EXT. CHICAGO - NIGHT TO DAWN

Thundering north through the glass canyons of the Loop, the

elevated train SCREECHES through the city awakening. As it

races north across the river past ancient factories giving

way to high rise splendor, lights glistening against the

dawn, we see the complex business of bringing a city to life

in the morning.

On the Near North Side an assortment of revelers are winding

up their night on the town.

The pressmen loiter outside the Tribune loading docks, and

fishing boats are outbound through the Chicago River locks.

A streetsweeping crew moves through the Fulton Market,

Chicago's central meat and produce distribution center.

At the Merchandise Mart platform the elevated train picks up

two old cleaning ladies wearing babushkas.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

The el train RUMBLES north past the aging tenements of Uptown

into the Belmont Avenue Station.

And down below, a garbage truck is slowly working its way up

the alley. A garbage man in city overalls WHISTLES to the

driver and the truck stops. He rolls a can to the grinding

jaw as the driver sits, tense and alert, scanning the street.

There's something odd about this driver. And the garbage man

too, for that matter.

EXT. EL PLATFORM - DAY

SPIDER, a nervous looking black man, steps out onto the

platform. As the train pulls away we see him reach into his

shirt pocket and CLICKS his ball point pen a couple of times.

He WHISPERS into it. It is a concealed radio transmitter.

He heads for the stairs and the street below.

INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY

The truck cab is equipped with a police radio. The driver,

RICH DONATO, adjusts the volume. Over the SPEAKER, HEAVY

WITH STATIC, we can hear the SOUND of the RECEDING EL TRAIN.

Donato motions for the garbage man.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

EDDIE CUSACK jumps up on the truck's running board and sticks

his head in. On the seat beside Donato is a sledgehammer and

a sawed off automatic rifle. The two men stare at each other

as they concentrate on the CRACKLING RADIO.

EXT. EL STATION - DAY

DOC is at the wheel of a late model Cadillac. Spider gets in

and they pull slowly away from the curb.

EXT. EL STATION - DAY

At the corner in a beat up Pontiac are officers MUSIC and

BRENNAN. The two rough looking detectives follow Doc's car

through half closed eyes.

They also HEAR Spider's TRANSMITTER. The quality of the

reception improves as Spider and his antennae clear the steel

support structure of the el platform.

Doc and Spider talk in a nervous false bravado.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Eddie nods to Donato who grabs a walkie-talkie from the seat.

SILENCE. Eddie looks at Donato.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Two cops are against the wall separating the cemetery from

the El. CRAGIE, a weathered twenty-five year veteran; and

NICK KOSALAS, the new kid on the team. Cragie sits on a crate

with a styrofoam cup of coffee.

Kosalas is trying to maneuver his cup lid off, and still

hold on to his walkie-talkie.

Cragie pulls a pint of whiskey from his pocket and sweetens

his coffee with a healthy shot. He notices Kosalas, who has

set down the thermos and is nervously moving from leg to

leg.

Cragie grins and raises his cup to drink. His hand shakes

and he has to steady it with the other.

The RADIO CRACKLES.

INT. SPOTTER APARTMENT - DAY

A spotter, KOBAS, covers the scene from an abandoned building

across the street.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Eddie wrestles another garbage can into the truck's hopper

as Doc's car cruises slowly past.

Eddie and Spider LOCK EYES for a split second.

The car moves on and stops at the far end of the alley. The

lights switch off. After a moment, Spider and Doc leave the

car and check out the scene. Doc carries a satchel.

The two men slip into the back gate of an old tenement. They

pass through a gangway to the front of the building, and

climb the front stairs.

Though we can no longer see them, we HEAR a DOOR OPENING, a

GREETING in Spanish, and FEET FOUNDING up the steps.

The garbage truck GRINDS forward and halts again. Eddie comes

up to the cab. He is wearing a gun under his overalls. He

and Donato listen on the RADIO to the CONVERSATION coming

from inside the building.

INT. COMACHO FRONT STAIRS - DAY

A muscular Latino, POMPAS COMACHO, leads Spider and Doc down

the paint-peeling corridor. The SOUND of BABIES CRYING and

FAMILIES WAKING gives a sense of teeming humanity behind

every door.

The Latino knocks at a door heavily fortified with burglar

bars. The door opens. The bars are unlocked.

Pompas leaves the two men and heads down the stairs toward

the front door.

INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY

Doc and Spider enter. They're patted down.

A sleepy eyed Latino woman comes to stand in the bedroom

doorway. VICTOR COMACHO barks at her in Spanish, and she

disappears into the bedroom.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Eddie stands on the running board of the truck with Donato

at the wheel. They listen to the RADIO.

Eddie tosses a soiled Rubic's Cube into Donato's lap.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Cragie is watching over the wall with his binoculars. He

looks back at Kosalas, who is hopping from foot to foot.

Cragie laughs and swigs straight from the bottle. The RADIO

CRACKLES.

EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY

A painter's van passes Brennan's Pontiac and parks in front

of the building half way up the block.

INT. BRENNAN'S CAR - DAY

Music doesn't like this.

EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY

As Music and Brennan watch from their car, the four painters

get out of their truck, unpack their ladders and tools, and

begin to carry their equipment into the building next door

to the stakeout.

INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY

The room is small and bare. A selling den. VICTOR COMACHO

and TWO COUSINS, all young and vicious, are sitting around a

formica table with the two buyers, Doc and Spider. The

Comachos are heavily armed. There is plenty of tension all

around, but Doc seems a little more nervous than the rest.

This is an enormous buy. Doc has placed a bowling satchel

full of bundled $20's, $50's, and $100's on the table. Victor

is counting it rapidly.

Victor nods and one of the cousins brings in half a dozen

brick-sized bundles of cocaine from the next room.

Doc slices into one of the bags and with the tip of his knife

he drops a bit into a glass vial. He adds clear liquid with

an eye dropper and it instantly turns purple.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Eddie's eyes scan the scene as he sorts through a garbage

can with a stick.

INT. PAINTER'S HALLWAY - DAY

The painters carry their equipment down the long corridor

and enter a vacant apartment.

A door opens in the corridor, and a naked toddler steps out.

A Latino teenager comes out to retrieve the child. He sees

the backs of the painters, and carries the toddler back

inside.

INT. PAINTER'S APARTMENT - DAY

The painters are not what they seem. Working quickly,

silently, they open their tool kits and lay out their

hardware: machine guns and automatics.

TONY LUNA, a barrel-chested Italian mobster is running the

show and it's well rehearsed. His boys, GUS, VITO, and EENIE

move like oiled machinery.

Vito turns on a radio to a Latino station to cover the SOUND

of their preparations. They remove the whole window from its

frame. Then they rest a wide plank on the window ledge.

Three feet away is the window of the adjacent building and

silhouetted against the shade we can SEE the drug deal.

Luna'ys check their weapons.

They put on painters' masks and goggles.

He puts on his goggles.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Over the IDLING ENGINE of the garbage truck, Eddie and Donato

HEAR the deal going down on the RADIO.

Eddie looks at Donato.

Like a coiled spring, Eddie leaps from the truck and runs

for the rear gate, gun in hand.

INT. PAINTER'S APARTMENT - DAY

Tony and his men face the window across the gangway. Two of

them hold sawed off double barreled shotguns. Tony counts it

down, and they all fire as one.

One GIANT BLAST tears into the window. It disintegrates.

The four men toss aside their empty guns, and grab other

guns.

EXT. GANGWAY - DAY

Eddie HEARS THE GUNFIRE and hits the wall. He sees the glass

showering down around him. He vaults over the backyard fence

and head for the porch stairs.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Kosalas is finally pissing against the wall.

Cragie is using the crate to climb the wall. He is up and

over, and falls to the ground on the other side. He's still

trying to get to his feet when Kosalas comes over.

They start running, yanking their guns out.

INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY

Doc and Spider are blown backwards in their chairs. One of

the cousins has fallen across the piles of money and drugs.

Victor and the other cousin are slumped on the floor. The

woman in the bedroom is screaming.

Through the jagged glass around the window frame, Tony's

boys shove a broad plank.

EXT. GANGWAY - DAY

Three floors up, we see the "painters" rush across the gangway

to the other building.

EXT. COMACHO BACK STAIRS - DAY

EFREN COMACHO, the heavyweight guarding the back door, is

distracted by the SHOUTS and GUNFIRE upstairs. Eddie crashes

through the door and Efren spins just in time to meet Eddie's

blurring attack.

The struggle on the landing is brief. Efren's size is no

match for Eddie's speed and power. With a grunt he sags to

the floor.

Eddie leaps over him and bounds up the steps.

EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY

Brennan, Music and Kobas are now on their way, using parked

cars to cover their advance toward the front door of the

Comacho building.

EXT. COMACHO BACK STAIRS - DAY

Eddie passes the second floor landing and takes a quick look

up the porch stairs. The door to the second floor apartment

starts to open behind him. He spins and kicks it.

There stands a terrified old woman looking up the barrel of

his gun.

He spins and bounds up the stairway.

INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY

The woman is huddled in a corner, still screaming. Tony comes

to stand over her, and coldly shoots her. Then he rips off

his mask and goggles as his boys clear the bodies and scoop

up the drugs and money from the table.

Victor Comacho lies slumped against the wall, one side of

his face and one shoulder bloodied. He appears dead, eyes

open. But then he blinks once.

INT. COMACHO BACK STAIRS - DAY

Eddie has entered the rear of the apartment. He moves

cautiously forward.

INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY

Tony and his partners start back over the gangway to the

other building. Vito is bringing up the rear.

Suddenly Victor Comacho comes to life. He gets off A BURST

with his AUTOMATIC. Vito catches it in the back.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Donato is moving down the gangway when Vito's body -- followed

by the scaffold plank -- falls from the sky and CRASHES into

the pavement right in front of him.

INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY

Eddie jumps into the living room doorway, gun drawn, and

takes in the carnage. He kicks the gun out of Victor's hand,

and bounds to the shattered bay window and looks down in

time to SEE --

EXT. GANGWAY - DAY

Donato jumps over the broken body, running through the gangway

toward the front of the building.

INT. COMACHO APARTMENT - DAY

The bridge to the other building is gone, but there is a

large drainpipe running down the outside of the building.

Eddie climbs out on the shattered window sill, and stretches

for the pipe. The pipe is just out of reach. Pushing off

from the ledge, he jumps for the drainpipe, grabbing it on

his way down.

EXT. DRAINPIPE - DAY

As he slides down three stories.

INT. PAINTER'S HALLWAY - DAY

The painters run down the stairs toward the front of the

building.

EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY

Music, Brennan, and Kobas rush the front door of the Comacho's

building, and enter.

EXT. GANGWAY - DAY

Eddie lands on his feet and heads for the front.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Cragie and Kosalas brace themselves on each side of the rear

door to the Painters' building. Cragie is white with fear.

Kosalas kicks in the door. They enter.

EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY

At the front of the building Donato emerges from the

passageway and he's met by a HAIL of GUNFIRE. He jumps back

and takes a more cautious look.

Tony Luna and Gus make a run for the van. Donato steps out

from between the two buildings and raises his gun.

But he hasn't seen Eenie, just coming out of the building

next door.

Eenie fires and Donato goes down, wounded in the foot. But

before Eenie can get off another shot --

-- Eddie leaps from the gangway and drops Eenie with a BURST

from his AUTOMATIC.

EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY

Luna pulls out PEELING RUBBER, but he's nearly surrounded.

squad cars have pulled in blocking both ends of the street.

Another squad car screeches to a halt and both officers jump

out and start firing.

Luna hits the fender of the squad car head on, knocking both

officers to the ground. He spins the van around with cops

FIRING from every angle, jumps the curb, and roars past the

roadblock on the sidewalk with pedestrians leaping in all

directions.

INT. PAINTERS' BACK STAIRS - DAY

Heart pounding, Cragie leads Kosalas blindly up the darkened

steps.

INT. PAINTER'S HALL - DAY

A door opens behind Cragie. He whirls and FIRES into the

darkness.

The riddled body of a Mexican teenager, eyes wide with shock,

pitches into the hall.

Kosalas, down the hallway, hugs the wall, petrified.

Kosalas creeps ahead, gun drawn, just in time to see Cragie

pull a small handgun from his pocket and lay it in the boys

hand.

Cragie looks up at Kosalas and their eyes meet.

EXT. COMACHO STREET - DAY

Luna's van, it's windshield shot out, takes the first corner

on two wheels. Behind him the police scramble for their blue

and whites. Half way down the block, the van lurches into an

alley.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

The van hurtles down the alley, splashing through puddles

past the loading docks of a packing company. Parked along

one side of the end of the alley is a meat truck from the

opening montage. A loading ramp leads to the gaping rear

doors.

The thieves have done their homework. The Luna gang slams up

the ramp into the rear of the meat truck.

A bee fy compatriot in a blood stained butcher's smock pulls

several sides of beef along the rail and into the truck.

With the van concealed, the line of police cars ROAR splashing

by.

INT. PAINTER'S HALL - DAY

Cragie, kneeling over the body, looks at Kosalas eyeball to

eyeball.

SCREAMS come from within the boy's apartment.

They HEAR FOOTSTEPS pounding up the front stairs. Cragie and

Kosalas look up.

Eddie appears at the front of the hall, gun drawn. He sees

the boy on the hallway floor.

He approaches cautiously, taking in the body, the gun, Cragie

sitting against the wall, and the distraught Kosalas who

stands transfixed by the dead kid. Eddie goes to Kosalas.

Eddie looks at Cragie.

Both Eddie and Cragie look at Kosalas.

It almost sounds like an order.

Kosalas looks like he's going to be sick.

Eddie walks away.

EXT. GANGWAY - DAY

The gangway is now filled with squad cars, ambulances, and

cops.

As the paramedics walk Victor Comacho to the ambulance,

bloody, bandaged, but very much alive, he and Eddie LOCK

EYES for a brief instant.

Several ferocious looking Comacho relatives have been allowed

inside the police lines. One of them steps close to Victor.

The lab technicians arrive.

The throng of streetwise punks and horrified commuters are

across a roped off area.

INT. PAINTER'S HALL - DAY

Kosalas and Cragie are still with the body. The corridor is

blocked off by uniformed patrolmen.

Kosalas is shakey. Cragie is tries to calm him down.

Kosalas nods.

EXT. GANGWAY - DAY

Donato sits on the ground as two paramedics work on his foot.

Eddie crouches beside him as one medic cuts away Donato's

ankle boot.

He gasps as they draw the boot off. Donato grabs for Eddie's

hand, and squeezes against the pain.

Someone points Eddie out to Partida, an attractive, no-

nonsense woman, who heads for him. Donato sees Partida coming.

The resentment the other cops feel against Partida is readily

apparent.

Partida looks at the covered body nearby.

Eddie nods.

Eddie smiles at Donato, who with his good foot, kicks at the

medic bandaging the wound.

As Partida heads for the building, another suited civilian

comes over to meet her. The civilian escorts a Mexican

grandmother.

The old lady is agitated, jabbering in Spanish and pointing

at the cops.

Eddie sees this, and then is pulled away as he helps one of

the medics lift Donato and carry him to the ambulance.

Eddie helps Donato into the ambulance.

INT. HEADQUARTERS - DAY

The two Comacho lookouts who survived the raid, Efren and

Pompas, have been brought in for questioning. The

interrogation is taking place in a small room.

Officers Brennan and Music are here with Eddie.

The Comachos sit silent as stones.

Efren stares ahead. Music looks at Eddie who is fiddling

with the Rubic's Cube, to little success.

Brennan takes Music's place. He kicks Pompas' chair hard.

It's not a joke, but a threat. Pompas spits at Brennan.

Brennan is enraged, but Eddie pushes him back with a hand.

Eddie faces the Comachos.

Eddie goes out the door.

INT. HEADQUARTERS HALL - DAY

As Eddie emerges, he bumps into the Camacho's lawyer SANCHEZ;

thirty-eight, well dressed, smooth as silk.

Sanchez sees the tableau in the room. As Cusack walks down

the hall the attorney follows him.

Eddie ignores him.

Sanchez backs off. We follow Eddie down the hall.

INT. KATES' OFFICE - DAY

The head of Area Four, COMMANDER KATES, is grilling Cragie

and Kosalas.

Kates turns to Kosalas.

Kosalas looks haggard.

Eddie enters. Kates looks up from his desk.

Cragie gets up. Kosalas, sitting through this interview in

stunned silence stands also.

Kosalas and Cragie exit.

Kates sits, sighs, suddenly tired.

Eddie turns to leave.

The PHONE RINGS.

Eddie starts to leave again. Kates picks up the phone, and

puts a hand over the mouthpiece.

Eddie exits.

INT. HEADQUARTERS OFFICE - DAY

Kosalas, without an attorney, is being interviewed by Partida.

A court stenographer is silently typing.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

Eddie and Kosalas are parked on an airport access road,

watching private planes land and take off. Eddie's car, a

five-year old Chevy, is wreckage. The quarter panels are

rusted, the radio antenna is a coathanger, and when Kosalas

pushes a tape into the cassette player, the windshield wipers

start moving.

Kosalas pops the cassette out, the windshield wipers stop;

he throws the cassette into the glove compartment. But now

he can't get the door to stay closed.

Eddie has to shout to be heard over the sound of an airplane

passing directly overhead.

Eddie glances at Kosalas who looks uncomfortable.

EXT. AIRPORT - DAY

The airport bristles with corporate jets departing and

arriving.

And now comes a mystery jet, wearing no company colors,

banking in over Lake Point Tower and WHISTLING low over the

Planetarium to a touchdown.

The white Learjet taxis to a halt at the far end of the field

as an undistinguished Buick rolls down the ramp to meet it.

Eddie and Kosalas stand by their car, parked across the runway

from the Learjet.

The jet's engines shut down, the door opens, and a grim but

handsome man emerges. LUIS COMACHO, a cruel and uncompromising

survivor, has arrived. With him is an incredibly beautiful

exotic woman.

He is met by Pompas and Efren Comacho, the two lookouts who

survived the raid. And Victor Comacho, who was wounded in

the raid, is here with his shoulder bandaged.

EXT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

From where Eddie and Kosalas are standing it is impossible

to hear the conversation at the Learjet, but it is clear

that Luis Comacho is upset. They see Luis slap Pompas and

Efren. Then he grabs Victor by both arms, ignoring his wound,

and screams at him.

Victor grimaces, in great pain, and his knees buckle.

INT. LUNA'S HOUSE - DAY

In the dining room DIANA LUNA, a pretty 19 year old, helps

her 80 year old grandmother THERESA decorate a "HAPPY

BIRTHDAY" banner, some red and green crepe paper.

Diana and her grandmother grin at each other. They are done.

Theresa stands back to admire their work.

A PHONE RINGS

Diana rushes into the kitchen and comes right out with a

birthday cake, and sets it on the table next to some presents.

Diana goes to the stairs where her mother sits with her hands

over her eyes.

She leads her mother to the dining room.

MOLLY LUNA opens her eyes. Theresa and Diana beam. Diana

kisses her mother who almost cries.

Diana hands Molly a card from the table. Molly starts to

open it.

Tony Luna burst in from another room.

Molly heads for the stairs, leaving behind the half opened

card.

Molly goes upstairs. Diana is pissed.

Tony goes to the phone, dials, gets a busy signal, and slams

it down.

Theresa sits down watching sadly.

Diana goes to stand in front of her father.

Tony sorts through the closet looking for a jacket.

Gamiani comes in puffing with a clumsily wrapped present

under his arm.

Diana is really angry at her father ignoring her.

He slaps her. She slaps him back, turns, grabs her purse,

and runs out.

Tony watches her go and turns to Gamiani.

He nods out the door.

Molly comes down with the bag. Tony takes it from her and

starts out the door. Suddenly he turns back, snatches

Gamiani's present from his hands, and thrust it at his wife.

Tony rushes out the door. Gamiani goes to the phone.

Molly is left alone in the doorway.

EXT. EDDIE'S STREET - DAY

Eddie parks in front of his apartment building, leaves the

car, and enters the building.

INT. EDDIE'S HALL - DAY

Dead on his feet, Eddie reaches the top of the stairs and an

object comes flying at him out of the shadows. ODELL, a slim

10 year old black kid, fakes a series of karate kicks at

Eddie.

Odell takes off.

The kid stops, and Eddie tosses him the Rubic's Cube.

Eddie nears his apartment, we hear a MALE VOICE SINGING.

INT. EDDIE'S APARTMENT - DAY

The door is ajar. Eddie lives in a modest apartment. FRED

PIRELLI, a great bear of a man, 65, sings at the top of his

lungs. He is bent over the space heater, tearing it apart.

Eddie collapses on the sofa.

Odell shows in the doorway. Eddie gets up and the kid tosses

him the Rubic's Cube -- all done.

Eddie looks at it, and the kid goes into the kitchen.

Odell laughs.

Eddie tosses the Cube into the waste basket and opens the

refrigerator.

Eddie comes back into the living room, hands a beer and a

soda to Odell, and flops back on the sofa with his own beer.

Pirelli reaches for his drink and Odell hands him the soda.

Pirelli grabs the beer before Odell can drink and switches.

Pirelli and Odell turn to Eddie who tries to look innocent --

but fails. Eddie purposefully studies the answering machine

on the coffee table in front of him.

Pirelli finishes with the heater, and gets up.

Eddie punches a button on the answering machine. It spews

tape across the table.

Pirelli grabs the machine, unplugs it, and carries it out

the door toward his own apartment.

EXT. SOLDIER FIELD - DAY

The machine in question looks like a miniature tank. This is

the "Prowler," a robot anti-terrorist vehicle that is being

maneuvered around various obstacles in a demonstration for

the city's law enforcement agencies.

The "Prowler" is amazingly agile. And its BULLHORN VOICE

breaks everybody up.

The machine's three video eyes, searching the crowd

independently, give it the appearance of an extra-industrial

bug. One camera is mounted on a telescoping mast which extends

to give it the perspective of a giraffe. The thing seems

almost alive.

Commander Kates is here, leading a contingent of departmental

brass. With them are several dozen officers and a gaggle of

city councilmen.

The Prowler is being put through its paces by the FACTORY

ENGINEER. He controls the machine with a pistol-grip device

that looks like a small TV camera.

He turns his hand to the right and the Prowler, 50 yards

away, sweeps its turret to the right, aiming the twin 30

calibre machineguns at the politicians. They move aside.

Standing with Chief Kates, Eddie watches the demonstration

with contempt. Kates turns to him.

Eddie has seen enough.

Kates is about to say something when the demonstrator

interrupts.

Kates points to Eddie, and smiles.

Instantly the turret sweeps the horizon and locks on Eddie

as he walks across the astro turf.

CLOSE-UP of the Prowler's hand controller.

The MONITOR SCREEN shows the crosshairs on the back of Eddie's

head. ON THE SCREEN the digital readout says: LOCKED AND

TRACKING.

Eddie keeps walking, seemingly oblivious to the Prowler.

Suddenly he whirls and ducks behind a wall out of the

Prowler's sight.

He pops up with his gun pointed at the Prowler's controller.

The controller, scared shitless, drops the hand control.

The Prowler dies -- the plug pulled.

Eddie smiles at Kates, and exits.

INT. MORGUE VIEWING ROOM - DAY

The curtain is drawn back from the viewing window and the

Comachos SEE the bodies of their cousins. Luis is here with

Pompas, Efren, and Victor. Their attorney, Sanchez, has joined

them. They are speaking Spanish.

Luis says nothing. He looks through the window at the bodies.

Finally he speaks.

He kisses his fingertips and touches the glass.

Sanchez sighs.

INT. MORGUE HALL - DAY

Luis Comacho storms out of the room into the corridor followed

by the others.

Eddie and Kosalas are just entering. Victor spots Eddie and

turns to Luis.

The Comachos slow down. The two groups survey each other --

Luis, hatred oozing from his eyes. And Eddie, without slowing,

looks the vicious Colombian over with cool contempt.

Eddie walks by.

Eddie freezes, makes a slow turn, and meets Luis' eyes.

Suddenly Eddie moves, faster than anyone else can react to,

and he has Luis pinned to the wall, choking him.

He releases Luis just as quickly, and turns to walk out,

Kosalas backing with him, hand on gun.

Luis gets some air back, and starts to scream.

The other Comachos have to restrain him.

INT. MORGUE EXAMINING ROOM - DAY

Retired detective HANK FLANNIGAN runs the high-tech morgue

where the bodies are stacked on trays like bakery buns.

Flannigan, a trim, bespectacled Mr. Clean, clicks his false

teeth between thoughts.

The body on the exotic lab table is the gunman Eddie shot

during the raid. Eddie is here to confirm the identification.

His new partner, Kosalas, is with him, very uncomfortable in

this setting.

Flannigan has already pulled Verona's record. He hands it to

Eddie who passes it on to Kosalas without looking at it.

Kosalas concentrates on the file, uneasy with the dead.

Eddie looks at Kosalas who glances up from the report

triumphantly.

Eddie just smiles.

Eddie reaches into his pocket, and tosses a ticket to

Flannigan who grins.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - NIGHT

Eddie and Kosalas cruise the Rush Street area at night. They

search the neon lit crowds on the sidewalks for a glimpse of

Lou Gamiani.

EXT. GAMIANI'S STREET - DAY

On a tree-shaded block of classic brownstones, the unmarked

car is parked at the corner.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

Eddie is at the wheel wearing a sportscoat and sweater,

scanning the sports page. Kosalas is nervous and chatty,

bubbling. He's still reading the records from the morgue.

EXT. GAMIANI'S STREET - DAY

LOU GAMIANI, 55, Italian, and huge, comes out the front door

of a brownstone, and gives a perfunctory kiss to his aging

"Playmate", who stands in the doorway in a housecoat. Gamiani

comes down the steps, and jumps into a car.

In the car with Gamiani, a fat man, TITO, is at the wheel.

They pull into the street passing the unmarked car.

EXT. NORTH SIDE STREET - DAY

Trailing Gamiani and his partner through the North Side

neighborhoods, they wind up in Lincoln Park.

With considerable skill Kosalas and Eddie manage to stick to

them undetected.

EXT. PARK - DAY

Gamiani and Tito park by the botanical gardens and stroll

past the fields of flowers into the zoo. Eddie and Kosalas

follow.

EXT. CHILDREN'S ZOO - DAY

Strolling among the baby elephants and fuzzy rabbits, the

two heavies could not be more out of place. Tito has a racing

form. Lou, tall enough to see over heads, looks like a loose

gorilla on the prowl. He is searching for somebody.

Surrounding the incubators filled with hatching chicks is a

cluster of schoolchildren.

They are having a ball.

Eddie has noticed DIANA, a lovely 19 year old who is in charge

of the children.

And she has noticed Gamiani. She's visibly upset.

Diana leaves the children with the zoo lecturer.

She crosses to the two goons and looks up at Gamiani.

Gamiani shrugs, his pal Tito seems embarrassed, but they

don't move.

INT. GORILLA HOUSE - DAY

The CHILDREN SCREAM, and LULU, the half-ton baboon flies

into frame, swinging down from the artificial branches of an

iron tree in the three story central cage. The children clutch

at Diana in delightful terror. The gorilla, inches away,

kisses the thick glass that separates them.

Lulu swings to the upper branches and sits, arms crossed,

staring eyeball-to-eyeball at her human counterpart, Gamiani.

Tito eats popcorn.

Eddie and Kosalas walk behind a mother and child, each holding

a balloon.

EXT. LIBRARY - DAY

Diana is on the front steps of the library saying good-bye

to two of the children from the zoo. She hands them over to

their mothers, and goes up the steps into the building.

Gamiani and Tito pull over and park down the street.

Eddie comes around the corner, and follows her in.

INT. LIBRARY HALL - DAY

The sign on the door tells us this is the city's Special

Education Program office. Diana enters the office and confers

briefly with another staff member.

INT. LIBRARY HALL - DAY

Through the open door of the Special Education Program office,

Eddie observes Diana chatting with her co-workers.

INT. READING ROOM - DAY

Eddie follows as Diana walks through the great hall past

long tables and out the other door.

EXT. LIBRARY - DAY

Diana comes down the steps, wading through the swarm of

homebound commuters, and catches a cab.

And head and shoulders above the crowd, scanning the tops of

heads, is Lou Gamiani.

Tito comes around the corner in his car, and pulls up to the

curb. Gamiani jumps in, and they take off after Diana's cab.

Eddie and Kosalas follow in Eddie's car.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Diana enters an apartment building.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

By the time Diana exits it is dark. She is with a friend,

and both are in some kind of Halloween costume. They catch a

cab.

EXT. PARTY STREET - NIGHT

The taxi stops in front of an ancient brick loft building.

Diana and her friend get out and hit the buzzer at an unmarked

door. The door opens and they disappears inside.

Gamiani's car cruises past. It pulls up at the corner and

it's lights switch off.

Eddie's car pulls up. Eddie hops out. Kosalas slides behind

the wheel.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - NIGHT

Eddie leans down to the open drivers window.

Eddie goes to the back of the car, and Kosalas follows him

in the rearview mirror, losing sight when Eddie pops open

the trunk.

Kosalas watches the party goers enter the building.

There is a tapping at the window.

Eddie has donned a baseball uniform, matching cap, and now

carries a baseball bat with a pair of cleats hanging from

it.

Eddie tosses the keys back to Kosalas, and heads to the

building. Kosalas calls to him.

INT. PARTY STAIRS - NIGHT

In the darkened stairway Eddie joins a group of outrageously

dressed characters. The door at the top of the stairs bursts

open on a punk-funk art student Halloween party.

INT. PARTY - NIGHT

A hundred people are jammed into the studio. It feels like

the Star Wars Saloon. The LIVE MUSICIANS match the look of

the party. The costumes are outrageous. Everyone is dancing.

Eddie looks the place over. He spots Diana.

Eddie walks over to her, grabbing a drink along the way. He

sidles up to Diana.

She looks him over taking in the outfit, the bat.

She smiles.

She is angry now, and walks away from him.

Eddie watches her go, and is about to follow. He sets his

drink down, and turns to find a girl, luscious as hell,

dressed like a Frederick's wet dream, making eyes at him.

She takes his bat, and gives it a long, lascivious lick.

He walks by her.

INT. PARTY BACK ROOM - NIGHT

Eddie steps over and around an assortment of wasted witches

and gooned out goblins snorting lines on the coffee table to

get to Diana who is tensely by herself.

He grabs her purse.

Eddie searches Diana's purse. He find her drivers license.

He drops the license into the purse and hands it back to

her. She stares him in the eye defiantly.

Eddie tries to give her his card.

She won't take it.

Eddie puts the card into her purse.

She walks away angrily. Eddie watches her leave, and then

steps over a few of the wasted witches to get to the phone

on the drug laden coffee table. He dials.

The dope-smoking party-goers stare at this cop in shock. One

of the ladies tries to casually cover the cocaine with a

magazine. Eddie hangs up the phone, and pushes past them to

the door.

He is out the door.

INT. GYM - DAY

Several plainclothes officers, some of them women, stand on

either side of the door with their backs to the wall, guns

at the ready. One of the men reaches out and POUNDS on the

door.

They rush the door and SMASH it, SHOUTING and scrambling

into the apartment.

The instructor, Kobas, walks in criticizing their style.

This is not the real thing; only practice.

CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL --

INT. GYM - DAY

The apartment is only a mockup set in the corner of this

vast skylit city warehouse. Runners race around the track at

the perimeter.

On the wall are large photos and diagrams of the Prowler.

Below the photos are sign-up sheets for the required training

sessions.

In another corner is the weight room, the ring, and the

workout area. Eddie is here, working out, sparring with a

partner who has large padded mits on each hand.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Brennan and a couple of buddies approach Kosalas as he ties

his gym shoes. Brennan is carrying a petition. He hands it

to Kosalas and looks around the room. He spots another cop.

Cragie is in the background putting on his jacket.

Brennan looks down at Kosalas who is hesitating. Kosalas

looks back at Cragie. There eyes meet. He signs.

Cragie comes by and slaps him on the back.

INT. GYM - DAY

We see Music talking to several cops working out the exercise

machines, and getting signatures on Cragie's petition.

INT. GYM - DAY

Eddie gives his sparring partner, Howard, a furious series

of blows, driving him back. They are kickboxing.

Eddie nods. He sees Cragie cross the gym and exit. As Cragie

goes out, Donato comes in on crutches. Everybody shouts a

greeting.

Eddie sits down to change gloves, and take his footpads off.

The sparring partner returns, and Eddie goes back to practice.

Eddie grins.

Brennan comes up to Donato, and hands him the petition. Donato

signs quickly.

Eddie nods to him, concentrating on the sparring.

PUNCH! Eddie hits the mit so hard that Howard is knocked

back a couple of steps.

PUNCH! With a whirling kick, Eddie knocks the mit right out

of the Howard's hand, and across the gym.

Eddie turns to face Brennan, nose to nose.

Eddie goes back to punching. Brennan storms out.

EXT. LATIN STREET - DAY

A funeral cortege makes it's way sedately down the street

past the Comacho owned pool hall. Two hearses, a flower car,

a limo, and several other cars with funeral stickers on their

windshields pass bye. The slain Comacho cousins from the

raid are being escorted to the cemetery.

Luis Comacho is in the limo along with the woman from the

airport.

INT. BRENNAN'S CAR - DAY

Brennan and Music are following the procession. Brennan is

on the radio.

EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY

Tito, one of Tony Luna's bodyguards, watches from the steps

of Luna's porch as a procession of cars follows the hearses

slowly up the street.

At the end of the block, an old man is selling produce to

the neighborhood housewives off the tailgate of his truck.

They watch the procession in wonder.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

The cortege passes the unmarked car down the block from Tony's

house. Eddie is watching. Kosalas is with him.

Across the street, WE SEE another bodyguard joint Tito on

the front steps. They stand, arms folded, watching the

procession.

INT. LIMO - DAY

Luis Comacho takes a flower and tosses it out the window as

he cruises past the two goons. Their EYES LOCK. Tito walks

up and grinds the flower into the ground with his shoe.

EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY

Brennan and Music bring up the rear in their ummarked car.

INT. LUNA'S HOUSE - DAY

Tito, the body guard, picks up the phone.

EXT. LAKE - DAY

At the pay phone next to a lakeside bait shop, Tony Luna is

getting the word. He's worried.

A floozy slides up next to him, and he puts an arm around

her waist.

He laughs. The girl joins in like she's supposed to.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

A tan Dodge rolls over the rutted scrapyard roadway, bouncing

toward the immense old warehouse along the river's edge. The

city seems to have abandoned this remote industrial area;

giant grain elevators, rusting freighters and vast scrapyards

surround us.

INT. POMPAS' CAR - DAY

Pompas and Efren Comacho drive through the gate and enter

the warehouse as the door opens for them.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

The car halts in the vast empty chamber. It is quickly

surrounded by members of the Comacho family. They begin to

unload the car. The trunk is filled with cases of heavy

ammunition.

At the back of the warehouse, other Comachos are test firing

their weapons.

INT. LUIS' OFFICE

Luis is directing things as they are preparing for battle.

The weaponry spread on the table is astonishing.

EXT. HARBOR - DAY

Eddie's beat up Chevy is parked beyond the line of yachts

toward the end of the pier. Eddie gets out of the car. Kosalas

looks worried.

Eddie walks to the 75 foot steel cruiser tied to the end of

the pier.

Eddie walks up the gangplank.

EXT. YACHT - DAY

An ape in a suit, ROCCO, appears.

Rocco goes for Eddie. A couple of quick blows and Rocco is

in the water. Eddie continues up the gangway to the rear of

the boat.

EXT. YACHT - DAY

Eddie finds FELIX (THE RAIL) SCALESE sitting on a chaise

lounge, reading. A beautiful girl lays on her stomach on a

deck pad typing at a personal computer terminal.

Scalese looks up at Eddie. He is momentarily discombobulated,

but recovers.

Another beautiful bikinied girl comes by and gives Scalese a

tall cool drink.

He drops the name with a smile. Eddie doesn't react.

Eddie sits down next to Scalese and looks him in the eye.

On the shore, Kosalas is honking the car horn to get Eddie's

attention. Eddie rises.

The girl at the computer terminal watches him leave.

EXT. YACHT - DAY

Eddie walks by as Rocco, soaking wet, is pulling himself

from the water. Eddie pushes him into the water again.

Kosalas is still sounding the HORN.

EXT. HARBOR - DAY

Eddie runs toward the car.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

A body lies in the flowers in the service area next to the

giant greenhouse. Several unmarked cars and two blue and

whites are parked in the dirt drive as Eddie and Kosalas

pull up. The cops have roped off the area. Music and Brennan

are there.

Eddie looks at the body as Music comes over.

Kosalas looks at the body.

Kosalas winces.

Eddie stands to one side.

EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY

A kid on a bike makes his way up the quiet tree-lined street,

tossing newspapers onto the porches of the block.

Around the corner at the end of the block, the produce truck

starts slowly forward. As it turns onto Luna's block, a car

pulls up behind it and stops, blocking the street.

The produce truck parks at the curb in front of the Luna

house. A neighbor from across the street approaches. The

front door of Luna's house opens, and Tito emerges, helping

Tony's aged mother down the steps to buy vegetables.

INT. PRODUCE TRUCK - DAY

On the floor near the wheelwell is the dead produce man.

EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY

The rear doors of the produce truck swing open. The neighbor,

Tito, and Tony's mother are instantly killed.

From outside three Comachos enter the open front door of the

Luna house. We hear the SOUND of MUFFLED GUNFIRE from inside.

INT. LUNA'S HOUSE - DAY

Bits and pieces. A Shattered orange juice container. Eggs

cooking on the stove. A woman's vanity.

On the floor; a woman's legs, a housecoat, slippers. A

silhouette of a Comacho in the hallway RAKING one of Tony's

guards.

A family photo on the mantle which includes Diana and her

father is BLASTED to bits.

EXT. LUNA'S BACK YARD - DAY

One of Tony's men tries to escape through the back of the

house. He is pursued by a Comacho who guns him down.

EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY

Luis Comacho sits in a car in the next block surveying the

scene. The cousins are walking briskly out. They jump in a

car and drive off.

INT. LUIS' CAR - DAY

Luis nods to his driver. They pull away.

EXT. LUNA'S STREET - DAY

The street is QUIET again. Next door, a neighbor, wearing

only his underpants and carrying an old pistol, stands

trembling in disbelief.

EXT. LAKE - DAY

Pines reflect in the dappled lake as Tony Luna rows slowly

for shore. He ties up at the dock. He's taking his tackle

out of the boat when one of his boys comes running down to

the dock.

We cannot hear the conversation but we can see Tony drop the

tackle box and we can hear his SCREAM echo across the water.

EXT. EDDIE'S STREET - DAY

Eddie runs down the rear stairs to Kosalas' unmarked car. He

opens the driver's door, pushes Kosalas across the seat, and

gets behind the wheel. He PEELS OUT.

INT. UNMARKED CAR - DAY

Eddie picks up the mike.

With the SIREN full out, LEANING ON the HORN, he simply puts

his foot on the floor and sends the car into a four wheel

drift that slides into a neat U-turn.

EXT. LIBRARY - DAY

Eddie leaves the car running, and burst through the main

entrance flashing his badge at the stunned security guards.

INT. LIBRARY - DAY

Eddie races through the corridors and reading rooms searching,

Kosalas arriving at his heels.

INT. LIBRARY - DAY

Gamiani tells Diana about her mother and grandmother.

INT. LIBRARY - DAY

Three Comachos; Pompas, Efren, and ANGEL, search for Diana.

EXT. LIBRARY - DAY

Lou Gamiani emerges from the building with Diana. She is

terrified.

He checks out the scene, then descends the crowded steps and

crosses the street, keeping a sharp lookout.

EXT. FLOWER SHOP - DAY

Luis and Victor Comacho loiter by the outdoor flower stand

next to the library. They watch the activity on the library

steps.

EXT. LIBRARY - DAY

Distracted for an instant by a cluster of conventioneers,

Lou fails to notice the two Comachos who have fallen in step

behind them. He goes down with a gasp, almost silently, a

knife sticking from his back. A Comacho grabs Diana's arm.

She jabs him in the eyes, and runs.

Diana disappears into the crowd.

Hysterical citizens scatter in all directions. A woman stands

in horror unable to keep from looking at Gamiani's body lying

on the sidewalk. She SCREAMS.

Eddie and Kosalas come crashing out of the entrance of the

museum.

The girl isn't here.

Eddie spots a commotion at the end of the block, under the

el station.

He dashes down the steps and across the street with traffic

screeching to a halt.

Kosalas flags down a blue and white, and barks for backup,

then tears out after Eddie.

EXT. WABASH AVENUE - DAY

In the shadow of the el tracks, Diana runs for her life,

racing north on Wabash through crowds of shoppers with the

Comachos moving relentlessly a half block behind.

Opposite Marshall Field's, she abruptly cuts across traffic

and runs into an alley between the giant men's and women's

stores.

With terror in her eyes, Diana runs, searching frantically

for a guard, a policeman, somebody with a gun. But the

Comachos are closing in on her.

She dives through a revolving door into the building.

INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

Diana runs past the perfume displays, notions, and lingerie,

and out the Randolph Street exit.

EXT. RANDOLPH STREET - DAY

Two Camachos, who stayed on the street, spot her as she

leaves.

Racing through the alley, Eddie spots them running in the

next block.

EXT. LAKE STREET - DAY

Running east on Lake Street, she glances over her shoulder.

She doesn't see them. She ducks into the alley. But the

Comachos round the corner just in time to catch a glimpse of

her.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

This alley leads to the lower level of Michigan Avenue. She

turns back to find the exit blocked by the Comachos. She

flees downward.

INT. LOWER MICHIGAN - DAY

The green flourescents of the "Emerald City" give a deathly

cast to the underground street as Diana rounds the corner,

and collapses against the wall. Her heart pounding like a

frightened deer, she has run as far as she can.

Pompas Comacho and two of his colleagues come racing around

the corner. They spot her crouched against the wall.

She starts to SCREAM but Angel grabs her by the collar and

pulls her up to his face and she stops, wide-eyed with terror

as he touches her throat with his knife.

We hear a loud metallic CLICK. We see the barrel of a huge

revolver. They wheel to see Eddie crouched, gun drawn, in

the alley entrance.

The boys put their hands up, but Eddie doesn't see the third,

SAMO, coming up behind him.

Angel grabs Diana by the hair, shielding himself, and starts

backing up the stairs that lead to the street.

Samo jumps Eddie, and the gun goes flying. It hits the

pavement and bounces off the high curb into the street.

In a staggering blur Eddie takes out the Comachos, kicking

the last one end over end. But Angel and the girl have

disappeared to the street above.

Eddie retrieves his gun and runs up the steps.

EXT. STATE LAKE EL STATION - DAY

With a knife at her side, Angel Comacho leads Diana up the

steps of the old el station. They pass through the turnstyle

out onto the platform just as the train pulls to in. Angel

forces her onto the train.

Eddie comes pounding up the steps and onto the platform just

in time to stop the closing train door with his foot.

INT. EL TRAIN - DAY

Eddie wedges his way aboard and the train pulls out. The

passengers looks at him like he's crazy.

Eddie works his way through the cars toward the rear.

Angel spots him. Knife still in hand, he pulls Diana from

car to car past the terrified passengers until finally he is

cornered at the end of the train. Angel searches frantically

for a way out.

Eddie enters. Diana sees him.

Eddie takes another step.

Diana slams her elbow into Angel's groin, and breaks free.

Angel jumps back. He breaks open the rear door and climbs

out.

EXT. EL TRAIN - DAY

Angel climbs up the back of the car onto the roof.

Eddie's right behind him.

The spectacular pursuit from car to car on the roof of the

speeding el train is witnessed by startled second-floor

secretaries whose desks look directly out at the roof of the

passing cars.

VERY HIGH ANGLE

Angel and Eddie's figures appear as specks, roaring through

the canyon of skyscrapers.

ON TRAIN ROOF

A low bridge forces both men to hug the roof of the train.

Eddie recovers first and grabs Angel, pulling him down. They

roll from side to side on the roof, nearly slipping over the

side. With a desperate shove, Angel breaks free. Eddie points

his gun at him. The train is now over the Chicago River.

Angel dives into the water.

Eddie reholsters his gun and dives in after him.

INT. EL TRAIN - DAY

We see Diana's looking out the window of the train. She

follows Eddie's decent with her eyes.

EXT. RIVER - DAY

Dozens of startled pedestrians line the bridge railing as

Eddie swims toward Angel, bobbing in the middle of the stream.

A hotdogger in a speedboat is racing up the river and Angel

is directly in his path. The skipper, showing off for his

passengers, doesn't notice him until he hears the sickening

THUNK under the keel. The boat's wake is suddenly red with

blood.

EXT. RIVER BANK - DAY

Eddie is helped from the water by a couple of passersby.

He stands there, soaking wet, looking around.

A crowd is gathering. We hear SIRENS in the background. Then

he spots her.

Diana is standing on the bridge watching him.

EXT. BRIDGE - DAY

Eddie walks to Diana, and she folds into his arms. He holds

her a second.

EXT. LAGOON - DAY

Eddie, now in dry clothes, and Diana walk along the lagoon.

They talk, argue, and she sits on a bench and cries. Eddie

comforts her.

NOTE: Ad lib dialogue throughout scene for possible later

use.

NOTE: Radio newscast describing the Luna killings can be

mixed with the above dialogue.

INT. EDDIE'S HALL - NIGHT

Eddie and Diana climb the stairs.

INT. PIRELLI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The DOORBELL buzzes repeatedly.

Pirelli, padding across the floor in his shorts, looks like

a bear called out of hibernation. He has a service revolver

in his hand. He peers through the peep hole, then unbolts

the door.

Eddie enters with Diana.

Pirelli reacts to the name.

Diana is in a daze, close to shock.

Pirelli takes her and leads her to the couch.

Eddie motions him aside.

Eddie starts to go, and Diana reacts, suddenly frightened.

He leaves.

INT. EDDIE'S APARTMENT

Eddie falls fully clothed onto the mattress. The PHONE RINGS.

He rolls over in disbelief, staring at the ceiling.

It RINGS, and RINGS again and again and again. He finally

picks it up.

INT. TAVERN - NIGHT

This is the after-hours watering hole for the police force

and half the cops we've seen so far, including Cragie, are

clustered at the bar or playing darts at the back of the

room. There are a half a dozen women there also. Three of

them are cops.

Kosalas is here too. He's been drinking. He leans against

the wall talking on the pay phone by the men's room.

He hangs up and heads back to his table, passing Officer

Music at the bar.

EXT. TAVERN - NIGHT

Two tough looking guys are watching the entrance to the bar

from a car parked across the street. We can HEAR the NOISE

from the BAR.

They check their weapons.

INT. TAVERN - NIGHT

Everybody but Kosalas is having a good time. Donato, flanked

by two girls, foot up on a chair, entertains a small crowd.

A group laughs at the story. There is a stillness at the

front door. One of the hoods from outside steps in. He wears

a leather coat.

The heads at the bar turn.

He walks the length of the bar and enters the john. He is

obviously out of place in this saloon. Nobody has both hands

on the bar.

The front door opens. The other hood steps in, walks up to

the bar, and orders.

The First Hood comes out of the bathroom and walks up to the

bar. Suddenly he whips a sawed-off shotgun from under his

coat.

THIRTY HAMMERS CLICK. Thirty guns are drawn.

The room is frozen. Only the JUKEBOX makes a sound. The two

hoods, eyes fixed on the array of iron pointed at them, can't

even swallow. Finally...

The cops swarm the hoods and in an instant they are on the

floor being cuffed and roughly handled. Kosalas is at the

end of the bar, frozen, his gun still in his holster.

EXT. TAVERN - NIGHT

Eddie gets out of his car and heads for the front door.

INT. TAVERN - NIGHT

The place is in an uproar -- everybody doubled up with

LAUGHTER -- as the two luckless hoods, handcuffed together,

are lying on the filthy tavern floor under a table. They

continue to berate each other.

Eddie enters.

Donato spots Eddie and calls to him.

Ruthie giggles.

Marlene swats at him.

Eddie shakes his head and walks to the back of the room where

Kosalas sits hunched over a drink, the only man in the room

not laughing. He looks up whens Eddie pulls over a chair.

Eddie nods, and Kosalas signals the waitress. There is a

long beat at Kosalas fidgets and Eddie waits.

Eddie just looks at him.

Eddie is still silent. Kosalas takes a swig of his beer, and

finally blurts is out.

He is too loud, and attracts attention.

Eddie gets up and walks away.

INT. TAVERN - NIGHT

The two amateur holdup men are being hustled out to the paddy

wagon as Eddie heads for the door. Someone grabs his arm.

It's Cragie, a little drunk.

Eddie walks out the door.

INT. EDDIE'S HALL - NIGHT

Eddie buzzes the door. Pirelli opens it. He lets Eddie in,

scans the hall, and closes it.

INT. PIRELLI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Pirelli sets down his gun, and pours Eddie a cup of coffee.

He turns to leave.

INT. PIRELLI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Eddie cracks the door and peeks in. Diana sits on the bed, a

lonely forlorn figure.

She looks at Eddie, and tries a smile that fails.

Eddie walks over to sit on the bed next to her.

She falls apart, and lies down, on the verge of crying,

collapsing so that her head rest in Eddie's lap.

They are quiet like that for a moment, she curled into a

ball, Eddie stroking her hair.

She looks up at him.

Eddie lays on the bed beside her. She curls up in his arms,

and closes her eyes. Eddie's eyes remain open.

INT. HEARING ROOM - DAY

The Civilian Review Board is in the Office of Professional

Standards. The panel consists of eight civilians. It is a

real cross-section of the city of Chicago. Leon Partida chairs

the proceedings. We recognize several faces from the opening

bust.

An old Mexican woman is on the stand facing the panel. Cragie

sits at a table with his representative, facing the officials.

A female panel member is questioning the old woman.

The question must be TRANSLATED by a bumbling clerk, the old

woman answers in Spanish, then the answer is translated.

The room is packed. In addition to the police officers,

character witnesses, and friends of the dead kid, there are

a dozen reporters.

Eddie enters and looks over the scene. He nods to Donato,

sitting at the rail with his foot propped up.

Eddie takes a seat. Officer Cragie is called back to the

witness stand.

Cragie is neat as a pin, humble, cooperative to a fault.

He feigns compassion.

EXT. EDDIE'S ALLEY - DAY

A carload of Comachos, including Luis, cruises down the street

and parks in the alley next to Eddie's building.

INT. OPS HALL - DAY

The hearing is in recess and the hall is filled with smokers

and coffee drinkers.

Eddie is getting a BUSY SIGNAL on the pay phone.

Donato approaches.

Eddie dials the number again. Still a busy signal.

INT. PIRELLI'S APARTMENT - DAY

Pirelli has Eddie's answering machine plugged in, and is

tinkering with the insides.

Diana comes into the living room, toweling her wet hair,

just out of the shower, but in her street clothes.

INT. HEARING ROOM - DAY

Kosalas is on the witness stand.

Cragie leans back.

A ripple is felt in the crowd. The reaction of the boy's

relatives, delayed by translation, is one of outrage.

As Kosalas steps down he keeps his eyes on the floor ahead

of him avoiding eye contact.

Eddie leans back in his seat. A couple of people get up and

head for the door.

Eddie gets to his feet and heads for the door. Partida hits

the gavel.

Eddie halts with his hand on the knob.

INT. PIRELLI'S APARTMENT - DAY

Pirelli works on the answering machine, but the phone is

reconnected. Diana is looking at photographs on the wall.

Pirelli looks up.

He goes back to the machine.

INT. EDDIE'S HALL - DAY

The Comachos come up the stairs, led by Luis. They stop at

Eddie's door. They pull out their guns, and kick the door

in.

Across the hall, Pirelli's door opens, and Pirelli, holding

his pistol steps into the hall.

The Comachos turn and fire, blasting Pirelli back into his

apartment.

Through the open door we see Diana dash across the living

room.

INT. PIRELLI'S APARTMENT - DAY

Luis and his men burst in.

Diana runs for the phone.

A Comacho takes it from her and rips it from the wall.

Diana is caught by two Comachos.

INT. HEARING ROOM - DAY

Eddie is on the witness stand.

Partida lifts a document from the table.

The room listens to every word.

Partida lifts another document.

Eddie glances over the letter and hands it back.

INT. OPS HALL - DAY

The reporters are clustered around Eddie as he emerges but

he walks past them back to the pay phone. He puts in a quarter

and dials. Frowns.

The cops in the corridor are passing the word about Eddie's

testimony, discussing it in little clusters. Their appearance

is frightening. Eddie dials another number.

Cragie, backed up by a couple of buddies, comes up to him.

They walk down the hall.

Eddie drops the phone.

INT. OPS HALL - DAY

Eddie races down the hallway past hostile clusters of former

friends.

EXT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

Roaring north on the boulevard without regard to traffic,

Eddie speeds toward his house in his rattling Chevy.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

Eddie rockets through the red lights LEANING on his HORN.

INT. EDDIE'S HALL - DAY

Eddie runs up the stairs, and slows when he sees Odell. The

boy is sitting on the floor, head in his hands, crying.

Just past Odell, several uniformed policemen are standing

over Pirelli's body. They step back as Eddie approaches.

INT. PIRELLI'S APARTMENT - DAY

Eddie hurries to the bedroom and back. He rushes out of the

apartment.

EXT. EDDIE'S STREET - DAY

Eddie runs for the Chevy and peels away from the curb.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - DAY

Eddie is on the radio, speeding west on Diversey Parkway.

EXT. BRENNAN'S CAR - DAY

Music is standing on a streetcorner talking to a couple of

hookers.

Down the street, Brennan waits in their unmarked car.

INT. BRENNAN'S CAR - DAY

Brennan picks up the mike.

Music returns to the car and gets in.

EXT. POOL HALL - DAY

Eddie squeals to a stop, hops out of the car, starts for the

pool hall.

Eddie enters the poolhall.

INT. POOL HALL - DAY

The place is busy. Everybody in sight is either mean or ugly.

Eddie enters and a dozen pair of eyes are on him.

The pool players not connected with this confrontation take

one look at him, hang up their cues, and split.

Eddie heads for the back of the room. A pair of heavyweights

fall in behind him. One of them grabs Eddie.

Eddie spins with deadly precision and catches them in mid-

step and they go down like gut-shot rhinos.

He heads for the rear hallway and everybody clears a path.

He steps up to the door in back and kicks it in.

INT. POOL HALL BACK ROOM - DAY

A startled Camacho, DEGAS, looks up, straw in hand with a

line of coke on a mirror on his desk.

Eddie grabs Degas by the hair and starts slamming his face

into the mirror which shatters with every blow.

He holds up Degas' head to look him in the eye. Blood and

cocaine stain the man's face.

Eddie lifts the head once and gives Degas one punch in the

face that sends him ass over teakettle across the floor.

INT. POLICE COMMUNICATIONS ROOM - DAY

Beneath the lighted map of Area 4, the police dispatcher

trying to raise Eddie's backup.

The dispatcher at the next panel overhears the call.

First dispatcher nods.

INT. POOL HALL - DAY

Eddie opens the door and emerges from the back room. A dozen

Comacho goons have gathered. Behind them are another two

dozen hostile spectators. But no sign of the backup.

He pulls out his gun. The remaining innocent bystanders split

for the exit. Eddie walks forward into the room. The Comachos

and their soldiers stand around him. Several have guns.

Eddie keeps them under the point of his gun. He gets to the

door and has to turn his back on it to keep the gang in his

sights.

A gun is pressed into Eddie's back. He drops his gun.

Luis kicks Eddie across the room. Eddie lands at the feet of

the gang.

Eddie springs to his feet, and in the same motion decks his

nearest attacker. The battle is on. Hardwood pool cues crack

around him.

The first four or five never get a chance to lay a finger on

him. Battered and broken, they litter the billiard tables

and floor. But Eddie is outnumbered 20 to 1.

INT. TAVERN - DAY

Cragie and Kosalas sit at the bar. The TV is off, and the

few customers pay attention to the police monitor.

Cragie smiles. Kosalas looks ashamed.

EXT. SQUAD CAR - DAY

Two uniformed police sit in a cruiser.

One cop turns to the other.

INT. POOL HALL - DAY

Coming at Eddie now from all sides, the Comachos wear into

him. Finally they begin to connect. Blind-sided, he goes

down and they are on him like jackals.

They drag him to the top of the rear stairs, and kick him

down to the alley.

It seems like they are about to finish him off when suddenly

all is quiet. The crowd parts. Eddie looks up through swollen

eyes to see Luis Comacho standing above him, cool as ice.

Luis reaches down and pulls Eddie's head up by the ear.

Luis kicks him in the face.

EXT. POOL HALL ALLEY - NIGHT

Eddie opens a bloody eye and looks over his surroundings.

He's alone. He moves, a joint at a time, checking himself

out.

Staggering to his feet, he opens a spiggot on the wall. He

lets the cold water wash over his head.

INT. POOL HALL - NIGHT

Donato hobbles through the deserted pool hall, his pistol in

his hand.

EXT. POOL HALL ALLEY - NIGHT

Donato comes out the back door of the poolhall, and finds

Eddie sitting on his haunches and resting against a wall

between two garbage cans.

Donato holsters his gun, and helps Eddie to his feet.

Eddie runs down the alley toward his car.

EXT. TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

Eddie's car pulls up. He gets out and runs inside.

INT. TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

A train sits at the platform. Tony Luna is walking down the

platform.

INT. TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

Eddie runs through the cavernous lobby.

EXT. TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

Eddie arrives in time to see Tony step into a waiting Cadillac

that immediately takes off.

Eddie races up the ramp to his car.

EXT. UNION STATION - NIGHT

Eddie jumps into his car, and roars away in pursuit of the

Cadillac.

EXT. CADILLAC - NIGHT

Tony settles in, and then sees Scalese sitting calmly in the

back seat.

Tony moves for his gun. The hood next to Tony relieves him

of his gun, using his own for persuasion.

Tony is scared. The driver spots something in the rearview

mirror.

EXT. LOOP - NIGHT

The Cadillac rockets through the empty orange-lighted canyons

of the financial district, with Eddie in hot pursuit.

EXT. UPPER WACKER - NIGHT

Roaring north on Wacker past an astonished group in front of

the Civic Opera House, the Cadillac drops out of sight on

the down-ramp to Lower Wacker.

EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT

This bi-level street is as different as night and day. The

lower level's eerie green lights make us feel like we're

under water. Iron girders and concrete pillars support the

street above.

LOW WIDE ANGLE

The Cadillac races through this vast man-made cavern, past

the sub-level loading docks and service entrances of

skyscrapers above. City work crews and all night commercial

deliveries dot both the upper and lower levels of the chase.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - NIGHT

Eddie is gaining in the battered Chevy. The Cadillac rockets

up the next ramp to the street level.

EXT. UPPER WACKER - NIGHT

The Cadillac zooms up from below, crosses the intersection,

and immediately takes the next down-ramp. Eddie flies up

from below, briefly airborne, barreling after them into the

tunnel.

EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT

A block later the Cadillac heads topside again. Eddie takes

a gamble and goes straight ahead.

At the next down-ramp, the Cadillac descends and Tony's boys

find themselves doing 70 knots side by side with Eddie in

the other lane.

In the narrow concrete tunnel, the two cars battle each other

like bulls in a chute, each one trying to cut the other off,

bouncing from each other into the walls and back again.

INT. CADILLAC - NIGHT

The goon next to Luna is trying to get a shot off at Eddie.

Tony sees his chance and he lunges for the gun. In the

struggle, the gun goes off and drills Rocco, the driver,

through the side of the head.

EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT

The Cadillac ROARS out of control, its dead driver's foot

pressing the accelerator to the floor. Scalese, in the front

seat, tries to grab the wheel.

Eddie is all over the road trying to avoid them. The river

and the curve are ahead.

Scalese's car hits the median at high speed, rolls, and slides

SCREAMING into a concrete pillar and EXPLODES.

Eddie stands on the brakes as his car slides alongside the

flaming wreckage.

INT. EDDIE'S CAR - NIGHT

Eddie's car is on fire now, and the doors have been rammed

shut. He kicks the window out on the passenger side.

EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT

Eddie runs for his life. The explosion knocks him to his

knees.

He gets up and moves away, looking back at Luna's and

Scalese's spectacular funeral pyre.

EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT

The fire engines and police cars are arriving from every

direction.

With the flames still lighting his face, Eddie is making a

call.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Diana is in bad shape. She is tied up. Numb with terror she

listens, not comprehending, as the Comachos discuss their

plans for her in Spanish.

Luis comes over to her, and with his knife begins cutting

off part of her clothes.

EXT. LOWER WACKER - NIGHT

Eddie's car is totally ablaze. He walks past the streaming

hoses and slips into a parked blue and white, it's mars lights

still flashing. He roars off.

INT. GYM - NIGHT

The giant door opens, and a lone blue and white pulls in and

parks.

The place is deserted except for the duty officer who sits

in his tiny office watching television with his half-naked

girlfriend.

Eddie enters silently, glances into the duty office, and

heads to the other end of the large hall.

In the background we see the practice apartment set, the

boxing ring, and several special task force undercover

vehicles seen before.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT

Eddie opens his locker and takes out his sawed-off automatic

shotgun. He checks the action. He loads it. He fills a duffle

bag with ammo and drops in another gun. He closes the locker

and heads out.

INT. GYM - NIGHT

The duty officer is still occupied. Eddie eases past him and

checks the key-board at the desk. He finds what he's looking

for. He lifts a set of keys from the hook.

EXT. GYM - NIGHT

From inside, we hear the SOUND of a TRUCK STARTING.

EXT. EXPRESSWAY - DAY

This city garbage van, an immense blue semi-trailer, is moving

south on the Dan Ryan at incredible speed, pushing traffic

out of the way like a battleship slicing through Sunday

boaters.

Eddie is at the wheel.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Among the dockside ruins of the old facility, Luis carefully

checks his snipers and lookouts. Shouting in Spanish, he

directs them into position.

From the distance we see a signal from the Comacho stationed

at the top of a huge grain elevator overlooking the Calumet

Harbor.

INT. GYM - DAY

Kosalas enters. The place is in chaos. He joins the crowd

gathered in the center of the facility. Brennan and Cragie

are here. So is Music. Commander Kates has just arrived.

Kosalas wanders through the wreckage. He is stunned. He is

starting to wake up.

The men all look at him silently.

Kosalas turns on them.

He is mad and loud.

Cragie jumps at Kosalas, but Kosalas is ready for him, and

braces Cragie against the wall.

With one hand Kosalas slams Cragie again, and reaches down

with his free hand, lifting Cragie's pants leg and extracting

a drop-gun from it's concealed holster.

Kates steps in and separates them.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Diana, now hanging from her wrists like a slab of beef, is

guarded by a couple of Luis' boys, eyeing her hungrily.

Luis enters.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Luis scans the daybreak sky. He and Efren take up positions.

Above them and around them, every line of fire is covered.

EXT. GRAIN ELEVATOR - DAY

From the lookout's POV atop the towering grain elevator, WE

SEE several garbage trucks moving in and out of an adjacent

dump.

One of them seems familiar to us.

INT. TRUCK CAB - DAY

Eddie's eyes search the harbour as he maneuvers slowly

alongside a rusting freighter. He stops and gets out.

EXT. GRAIN ELEVATOR - DAY

Eddie opens the rear of the truck and lowers a ramp.

He picks up his gun and a duffle bag from the cab and heads

out.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

The Comachos are ready and waiting. Luis walks through the

middle of the vast empty plant toward the front, checking on

his troops one last time.

EXT. DOCK - DAY

Against the grotesque shapes of the surrounding scrapyards,

Eddie moves quickly from one concealment to the next, crouched

low, advancing on the abandoned factory at the end of the

dock.

He lays down his duffle and pulls out a Halliburton case. He

opens it.

EXT. GRAIN ELEVATOR - DAY

From inside the garbage truck WE HEAR an ENGINE STARTING. It

REVS a couple of times. And from within the container

compartment of the truck emerges the Prowler. It clatters

down the ramp.

EXT. GRAIN ELEVATOR - DAY

The lookout spots the Prowler moving down the dock. He can't

believe his eyes.

He sights on the machine and FIRES.

And in the distance, the Prowler senses the insult and

immediately turns its camera eye up to him.

The lookout FIRES again. Immediately, the turret swivels and

the twin MACHINEGUNS ROAR.

It's a long way down.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

The SOUND of MACHINEGUN FIRE from outside galvanizes the

Comachos. Luis runs through the long building toward the

front with half a dozen of his men, all SHOUTING.

EXT. DOCK - DAY

Eddies eyes watch the miniature monitor of the Prowler's

hand controller. On the monitor WE CAN SEE the Comachos

running out in the front of the factory from the camera on

top of the Prowler.

Eddie gets up and moves toward the factory. He looks up at

several high broken windows.

EXT. DOCK - DAY

The Prowler is having a field day. It's electronic sensors

trace the source of every hostile shot and immediately return

a withering stream of hot lead that chews the surrounding

scenery -- and several Comachos -- to pieces.

But Eddie has not figured out how to control the Prowler's

BULLHORN VOICE command system. It continues to BARK ORDERS

to the dead hoodlums in three languages.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Luis runs through the empty plant toward the office screaming

to Diana's guards.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Diana, tied to the chair, is momentarily alone as the guards

rush out to the floor of the factory to see what's happening.

The two guards, their guns flying from their hands, are

hammered back into the room by Eddie who blasts through the

door after them.

Diana is petrified.

INT. SQUAD CAR - DAY

Kosalas and Kates are in the same car. Kosalas is driving.

Kosalas spins the wheel into a U-turn.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

The "Prowler" rolls around the corner, its brutal turret

bristling with firepower. It is driving Luis and the other

stupefied Comachos further back into the building.

Eddie guides his deadly partner with the hand controller.

The Comachos dive for cover and spray the miniature tank

with AUTOMATIC FIRE. But they are no match. Two continuous

streams of hot lead chew up the place, splintering the loading

dock and the catwalk hiding places and disintegrating the

structure, churning the Comachos to hamburger.

COMACHO SHOT RINGS OUT

Eddie goes down and the Prowler hand controller falls to the

ground, shattered.

The Prowler goes berserk, SPRAYING DEATH in a 360 degree

circle until all the ammo is gone.

Then SILENCE.

Eddie touches the blood on the side of his leg. It's not

serious.

It appears everyone is out of ammunition. But a few Comachos

are still hidden in the factory.

Eddie is after them like a tiger. Victor, shoulder still

bandaged, never has a chance. He goes down, battered and

broken.

But Luis has crept up behind Eddie. He jumps over a steel

plate. He's going for Diana, a long knife in his hand.

Eddie reaches for a reload. Puts it in his magnum. Aims, and

blows Luis away just as he reaches for Diana.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Across the littered battlefield, Eddie escorts Diana toward

the light streaming through the factory entrance. He takes

off his jacket and wraps it around Diana's shoulders.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

The pier is crawling with cops with more arriving every

second.

A fire boat is extinguishing the blaze set by the Prowler's

incendiary ammunition.

The bodies of the Comachos lying everywhere astound the

arriving "Home Team."

Officer Kosalas screeches to a halt and jumps from his car.

Brennan and Music are running down the dock. Donato, a cast

on his leg, hobbles after them.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Emergency vehicles are arriving, and more squad cars, paddy

wagons, and fire engines.

Eddie walks by the cops toward an ambulance, now carrying

Diana. Kates calls out after him.

Eddie stops, slowly turns around.

There is a long pause.

Eddie hands Diana over to the waiting medics, who put her in

the ambulance.

We pull back further and further until we see the rest of

the Home Team. The ambulance, carrying Diana, pulls away

with it's lights flashing.

Eddie walks down the pier alone.

