ON A BLACK SCREEN

BOGOTA, COLOMBIA 1997

CLOSE ON A PAGE OF A LARA CROFT COMIC BOOK

Being copied, with uncanny precision, down to the last

detail, by a ten year old hand clutching a pencil.

The page of a notebook turns, revealing neat cursive

handwriting, covers the comic.

PULL BACK TO

INT. CAT'S HOME - DAY

CATALEYA RESTREPO, CAT for short, a contained, very

centered 10 year old, pretty, but with a toughness, sitting

at the dining room table, in a well kept, but modest home,

with windows that look out over the steep hillside favela,

attends to her notebook.

On the window there are half a dozen beautiful orchid

plants. The rare Cataleya orchid. All around there are

packed cartons, suitcases. Moving day is at hand.

Her mother, taking time off from packing, comes over to

Cat, and turns the page of the notebook to reveal the Lara

Croft comic and it's copy.

Her mother turns the page back to the lessons.

Cat looks up at a picture on the wall of the family. Cat,

her mother, and her father. Her face carries a bit of

worry.

Mid 40'S, a gentleman, calm, courteous, impeccably dressed.

PULL BACK TO

EXT. DON LUIS'S GARDEN - DAY

At a table, with bottle of liquor and two glasses, Don

Luis sits opposite...

Cat's father. Off to the side, Don Luis's right hand man,

MARCO, stands like any right hand, unobtrusive.

He turns to Marco.

He pours the liquor into the glasses.

They tap glasses.

They shoot the liquor down. Fabio rises.

He hands Don Luis a computer disc.

He shrugs. Opens his arms. The two men embrace. Close

as brothers.

And with that, Fabio exits the garden. Don Luis watches

him, sad to see his friend go. Sighs deeply, pours himself

a whiskey, downs it, turns to Marco.

INT. CAR - DAY

Two men, holding automatics in their laps sit in the back,

the driver in the front. They see Fabio very contained,

calm, walking towards them. The driver turns the engine

on. Fabio slips into the passenger seat. The car takes

off.

Fabio explodes. Smashes the dashboard. Over and over.

He keeps banging the dash.

Off the nervous looks of the guys in the car...

EXT. CAT'S HOME - DAY

Fabio's car comes to a screeching halt. Fabio exits to

three other gunmen, nervous, on edge. The gunmen from the

car take defensive positions. Fabio runs up the stairs.

INT. CAT'S HOME - DAY

Cat is still at the table drawing, when she hears the

screeching of tires, the fast footsteps outside. She senses

a storm coming. Fabio bursts in. His wife sees his tension

filled face.

Cat is strangely calm, just sits at the table. Watches as

Fabio takes the family picture off the wall, pries the

frame back, extracts a small chip hidden inside the frame,

comes over to Cat.

He holds the chip up.

She nods. He places the chip in her hand, takes a card

out of his pocket.

As Cat looks at the chip.

EXT. CAT'S HOME - DAY

As Fabio's men keep a sharp lookout, two SUV's come rolling

down the street. Their fingers work the triggers of their

weapons. The two SUV's roll up. The blacked out windows

roll down.

INT. CAT'S HOME - DAY

Fabio writes on top of Cat's drawing, rips the page off,

folds it, puts it in her pocket, removes a medal from around

his neck, drapes it over hers.

Cat looks down at the medal.

CLOSE ON THE MEDAL

An imprint of a flower.

He kisses her on the forehead. His wife appears at the

doorway with two suitcases.

EXT. CAT'S HOME - DAY

The man in the SUV is on the phone.

He listens.

He hangs up. Puts his phone back in his pocket. Walks up

to Fabio's men.

He pulls out his gun, shoots them point blank.

INT. CAT'S HOME - DAY

As they are exiting the house through a rear door, the

shots ring out. They see another black SUV rushing up the

street.

He pushes his family back inside. Fabio runs to the window.

Sees his men on the losing end of a gun battle. As the

men fall, and others run up the stairs firing as they

retreat toward the front door...

The Mother drops the suitcases and runs to the rear room.

Fabio comes over to the unnaturally calm Cat.

CLOSE ON FABIO'S HAND

Reaches under the table where Cat is sitting, takes a gun

strapped there. Next to the gun is a big knife.

And then footsteps, coming fast outside, draw his attention.

His wife runs into the room toting two big assed assault

rifles. She tosses one to Fabio. Both of them take up

shooter's positions facing the door.

ANGLE ON CAT

Sitting at the table, very still. Watching.

ANGLE ON HER MOTHER AND FATHER

Facing the front door, hands gripping their assault rifles,

sweat dripping down their faces, chests heaving, waiting,

waiting, to blow anyone who comes through the door to

kingdom come.

But they never get the chance because...

BBBBRRRRAAAAKKKKKK!!!!!!!!

Machine gun fire shatters the windows on both sides of the

room, tearing into their bodies before they even get one

shot off. Tearing the orchid plants there to shred.

Cat watches in mute disbelief, shocked, as her parents

bodies are riddled with heavy caliber rounds making them

twitch and dance like marionettes on wires. Their blood

splattering across the room, across her.

And then...

Silence. Silence so complete it is deafening in it's

absence of any sound. Cat just sits in her chair.

And then the door bursts open and four gunmen storm into

the room, their assault weapons trained on the only living

thing in the room.

Cat. Marco enters.

The gunmen scatter. Marco has his inquisitive eye on Cat,

who does not drop her eyes, impossible to read.

One of the GUNMAN strides over to Cat, jams a gun to her

head. Cat does not move a muscle. Does not blink.

ANGLE ON MARCO

Examines the frame Fabio dug the chip out of.

ANGLE ON THE GUNMAN WITH THE GUN TO CAT'S HEAD

He chambers a round, is about to pull the trigger...

As the other gunmen begin to tear the house apart, looking

for something, Marco strides over to Cat. The frame in

his hand.

He is about to pull the trigger.

The gunman stops.

The gunman takes his gun, lifts Cat's lip, looks at her

teeth.

The gunman is about to pull the trigger again.

Marco hands him some cash.

Scowling, the gunman joins the others in ripping the house

apart, looking for something.

Marco calmly goes to the fridge, takes out two bottles of

water, cracks the caps, sets one down on front of Cat as

he sits opposite her. Her hands are in her lap.

Cat shakes her head no.

Alluding to the medal around her neck.

All the while his men are searching, frisking the bodies

of the dead, even tearing the heels off their shoes.

Cat responds, shakes her head yes. Her hand slips

imperceptibly under the table.

CLOSE ON HER HAND

Touches the handle of the knife taped there.

Again Cat shakes her head.

Again Cat shakes her head.

He alludes to the riddled bodies of her dead parents.

Cat looks from the bodies and back to Marco, no emotion in

her eyes.

Cat nods.

He holds up his thumbnail.

He holds up the frame, shows where the chip was dug out of

the wood.

Cat nods.

CLOSE ON CAT'S HAND

Gripping the knife handle.

Cat nods.

Cat nods yes.

Cat hesitates for a moment, and then removes one hand from

underneath the table, her fist closed tight. Marco smiles,

kindly. He holds out his hand.

Marco opens his hand.

And just as she is about to open her hand...

CLOSE ON HER OTHER HAND

Under the table, gripping the handle of the knife taped

there.

In a flash, the knife is whipped out and buried into Marco's

unsuspecting, open palm. Driven with such force, the knife

pierces through the back of his hand, and sticks into the

table beneath; pinning his hand. Marco wants to scream

but there is so much pain, nothing escapes his throat.

The men searching look up, and before they can react, Cat

races past them.

TRACK WITH CAT

As she runs through the rooms of the house, sprints to the

bathroom where one foot hits the toilet, springing her

onto the ledge of a very small window. As she looks back,

she sees the gunmen in hot pursuit. And she jumps, head

first. Barely squeezing her small frame through the tiny

window.

And she drops...

Six feet down, onto a ledge, that is just beneath the

window. She flattens against the wall, holding onto the

medal of her father.

ON THE BATHROOM

One of the gunman comes to the window, cannot fit through,

looks out, does not see anybody across, then hears something

beneath him, looks down, sees the tip of a shoe below.

Puts his gun out the window, points it down, and....

BBBBRRRRAAAAKKKKKKK!!!!!!

Lets loose with a barrage from his weapon.

She watches as the bullets split the cement all around her

feet. Coming inches from ripping into them. And then the

barrage stops.

ON THE GUNMAN

His clip runs out. And as he fumbles to slam another one

in...

She hears the pause. Looks out over the sprawl of houses

that stretch up and down the steep hillsides of the favela.

She looks down at her open palm at the small chip her father

gave her. Pops the chip in her mouth, swallows, leaps

over the small divide between her house and the next roof,

and takes off running.

ON THE GUNMAN

Gets the clip to fit, sees Cat heading off across the roof,

out in the open, exposed, vulnerable. He lifts his gun to

shoot, when the gun muzzle is slammed up, peppers the

ceiling with bullets. The gunman turns to Marco, holding

his bloody rag wrapped hand.

EXT. FAVELA - DAY

Cat leaps from one rooftop to another, shinnies down a

drain pipe onto another roof.

ANGLE ON THE GUNMEN

Jumping down from the window of Cat's home, start to sprint

across the roof in hot pursuit.

She drops down to another roof, this one filled with a

vegetable patch, where an old man is gardening.

EXT. FAVELA - DAY

Marco exits Cat's house, wrapping his bloody hand tightly

with a piece of his shirt.

He orders four more gunmen who have just zoomed up on

motorcycles. The souped up rice rockets take off in four

different directions.

As she comes off the last rooftop, down into a small alley.

She sprints across to a small door. She kicks at the door,

which gives way and enters...

AN OPEN COURTYARD

Where a half dozen women are doing laundry by an open tap.

They look up to the sight of this little girl in the blood

splattered school uniform, do not say a word. And neither

does Cat. She just runs through to a small gate on the

far side of the courtyard, opens it, and disappears. One

of the women casually hangs one of her wet sheets over the

gate, hiding it.

ON THE GUNMEN

They crash through the vegetable garden. The old man deftly

kicks a rake leaning against the wall. It falls in between

the rows of tomato vines.

When the gunmen sprint through, the first one trips over

the rake, goes crashing through the vines, which causes

the two men behind him to also trip and fall. The fourth

man hurdles his fallen cohorts, bounds over the roof.

And the fifth man, looks at the old man. Knows what he

has done. Shoots him dead before jumping off the roof.

She races down a steep hill in the crowded favela streets.

ON THE GUNMEN

They enter the laundry yard. The women don't even look

up. The gunmen look around, just see laundry hanging from

the fence, do not see the hidden door. Race back out.

She runs down a steep alley, filled with people sitting

outside their homes, chatting, playing dominoes.

At the end of the alley, two motorcycles appear. The riders

see Cat, as she sees them. They turn their bikes into the

alley...

VRROOOM!

And bear down on Cat.

Cat sprints back up the hill. She goes to escape into one

of the open doors, but she finds that one after another

the doors have closed shut, the people fled inside.

The bikes eat up the hill. Cat's legs are no match for

them. It seems she will be caught any second. She ducks

down a street where laundry is hung on a concealed metal

pipe running the length of the alley. As Cat ducks through

the sheets the gunmen gun their bikes right towards her,

tear through the sheets...

AND THE CONCEALED METAL PIPE CATCHES THEM ACROSS THEIR

THROATS.

She looks back, to the dead gunmen, disappears over the

hill.

AND JUST AS SHE DOES...

Marco, in an open top jeep, with three of his gunmen ON

BOARD, comes rolling up the road. He sees Cat.

The jeep screeches around. Cat dashes down an alley.

As she runs up the alley with it's open sewers running on

either side.

The alley is too narrow for the jeep. The men spill out,

spring up the alley.

She runs up the alley, then ducks down another one. She

comes to a ladder that leads up a fence, begins to climb.

ON THE GUNMEN

Running up the alley, turning into the next one. Where

they see the ladder. One of the gunmen pulls out his cell

phone.

In the jeep, scouting as it rolls along.

She is running for all she is worth, out of breath, scared.

More thugs on bikes, on foot, in cars. They are everywhere.

She is leaning against a wall on a rooftop, gulping air,

when she hears the roar of engines. Looks over the side

of the building to see dozens of gunmen flooding the area.

Climbing the ladder.

Hearing them coming.

Surrounding a building. Throwing grappling hooks onto the

roof ledge.

Seeing the grappling hooks claw onto the roof edge.

Cresting the roof from the ladder.

Rappelling up the side of the building on the grappling

ropes.

Flooding onto the roof from both sides. Coming to the

spot where Cat was only moments before. To find no Cat.

One of the gunmen takes out his cell. Dials.

On the phone.

Marco slams his phone shut. Heads for his car.

The gunmen clear the roof. As the last one leaves, he

takes one last suspicious sweep of the roof, cannot figure

where this wisp of a girl went to. His eyes briefly focus

on the chimney...

He clambers over the side of the roof.

THE CAMERA STAYS FOCUSED ON THE CHIMNEY.

INT. CHIMNEY - DAY

Cat, holding her breath, listening keenly to the sound of

the men departing, is wedged into the chimney, her hands

and feet clinging like a lizard to the walls on either

side.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Cat comes over the top of a hill, the soot of the chimney,

mingled with the blood of her parents, staining her dress.

The doors and windows all along the street are shuttered

tight. Her eyes search the curb as she makes her way down

the street. When she hears the sound of a vehicle. She

looks up to a jeep turning the corner.

REVERSE ON MARCO

In the windshield of the jeep, staring at her.

She sees Marco. She pauses for a moment, and then does

something that stuns even Marco. She starts to run right

towards the jeep!

A bit stunned.

She keeps sprinting toward the jeep. Another jeep appears

over the hill behind her. Starts to come at her.

As his jeep speeds right for her.

As she runs, her eyes go to the right, and it becomes

apparent she knows exactly what she is doing. She has a

plan. And she executes it. Suddenly, she leaps for the

curb and...

A SEWER GRATE.

Sees Cat dive to the curb.

As she wriggles her skinny little body down the grate,

with barely enough room to squeeze in. But in she does

squeeze.

In total disbelief, watching her disappear down the narrow

slit in the curb.

Both jeeps pull up. The men jump out. Marco flattens to

the street, peers into the grate, sees Cat staring up at

him.

Marco takes his gun out. Jams it in the grate...

BAMBAMBAMBAMBAM!!!!

Empties his clip into the dark. When he runs out of ammo,

he peers down again.

Cat is gone. The gunmen run to the next sewer grate fire

into that one. Marco looks down, no Cat.

The gunmen rip the grate out, jump down the hole.

INT. SEWERS - DAY

The gunmen, following the beams of their flashlights, go

tramping through the muck of the sewers, trying to find

Cat. The only living things they find are rats, scurrying

across their feet.

He kicks every car in the street in frustration.

INT. SEWERS - DAY

The gunmen wait in the sewer, waiting.

The gunmen retreat back the way they came. They do not

see someone watching them go.

A small crevice in the sewer wall. Cat has squeezed herself

into the crack, almost invisible.

EXT. STREET - SUNSET

Cars and trucks rumble along a busy thoroughfare.

CLOSE ON A SEWER GRATE CUT INTO THE SIDE OF THE CURB

A hand emerges. And then, Cat pulls herself out, into the

street.

PULL BACK TO CAT RISING

She stands at the edge of the busy thoroughfare, and looks

around. She is in the heart of the city. Where tall office

buildings, compete with graceful, classical mansions. In

the distance, she sees the hillsides, covered with the

twinkling lights of the favelas, two miles, and a world

away.

EXT. AMERICAN EMBASSY - NIGHT

Two Marines stand guard. Looking straight ahead.

The Marine looks down to Cat. Bedraggled, covered in soot

and blood and shit. Holding out the card her father gave

her.

CLOSE ON THE FACE OF A MIDDLE AGED AMERICAN

PULL BACK TO

INT. EMBASSY OFFICE - NIGHT

The American looks at the card Cat gave to the Marine,

hands it to another American.

He turns to Cat, who nods yes.

Cat takes a beat. Puts her fingers down her throat. And

throws up all over the man's desk.

Cat reaches into the goop on the desk and comes up with

the chip. She hands it over to the man behind the desk,

who takes a handkerchief out and takes it from her,

gingerly. He looks at the chip, looks at Cat.

CLOSE ON A COMPUTER SCREEN

Facts, figures, names, dates, a wealth of information

scrolls down.

PULL BACK TO THE TWO AMERICANS LOOKING AT EACH OTHER

Cat does not understand. The second American hits a button

on a remote.

ANGLE ON A HIDDEN CAMERA ROLLING

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Cat watches out the window as the plane's landing gear

drops and the city of Miami spreads out before her in all

it's shimmer and glistening glory.

She looks down at the medal around her neck. A tear forms

in her eye. Rolls down her cheek. Impossible to tell if

it is a tear of joy or sadness.

INT. JETWAY - DAY

Cat, with a plastic envelope holding her travel documents

around her neck, accompanied by an airline rep, walks down

the jetway toward the entrance to the airport, where a MAN

is standing. Looking directly at her.

All the passengers are filing to the left as they leave

the jetway, but as Cat and her escort approach the man...

He walks to the right.

INT. PRIVATE OFFICE - DAY

Cat stands in front of a rotund bureaucrat, with the man

who escorted her, handing over her passport.

The Bureaucrat looks at her passport. As Cat glimpses

through the slatted window looking out over the Customs

floor, where all the other passengers are being processed

in long lines.

Cat says nothing. He stamps her passport.

Cat looks at him, not sure if this is good news or bad

news.

ON THE MIAMI SKYLINE

INT. CAR - DAY

Cat looks out the window of the car at the skyline passing

by, silent, filled with wonder.

Cat looks at him, doesn't respond. He turns the radio on.

A god awful C&W song comes on. Cat looks at him for a

moment, then reaches over, turns the radio off. Goes back

to looking out the window.

EXT. BOARDING SCHOOL - EVENING

The car passes a gate with a sign: MISS PORTERS SCHOOL FOR

GIRLS.

INT. HEADMISTRESSES OFFICE - EVENING

Cat does not respond, she just stares out the window.

He hands over a check.

He hands over a wad of bills.

She places the money in an envelope with Cat's name on it,

and puts the envelope into a drawer.

She hands a twenty to Cat. Who takes it without saying a

word.

INT. DORMITORY - EVENING

Three dozen girls of all ages go about their business.

Some do homework on their beds, others do their hair, dance,

run around.

And suddenly, at the sound of a door opening, they all

stop and look in the same direction at Cat and the MONITOR

She exits. All the girls stare at Cat. No one makes a

move. In the silence, you can hear a pin drop, until...

The biggest girl in the dorm, a head taller than everyone,

and twenty pounds heavier, with bully written all over her

face, saunters down the aisle right towards Cat. Her name

is...

The girls all around twitter. Sherri looks back at them,

no good rising on her smirking face.

She points halfway down the aisle to an empty bed. Cat is

about to walk towards it, when Sherri puts a beefy hand in

her chest.

Cat looks at Sherri. Looks at the other girls all hanging

on every word, waiting to see what jumps off.

Cat considers, then reaches into her jumper and extracts

the twenty dollars the headmisstress gave her. Hands it

over to Sherri.

Cat says nothing, just stares at Sherri.

Sherri opens her sweatshirt to reveal a fanny pack. She

unzips it, puts Cat's twenty in with a wad of other

twenties.

The other girls hoot and whistle. Sherri removes her hand

from Cat's chest.

Cat still says nothing. She walks up the aisle past all

the other girls, who remain silent. It is only after Cat

has laid down on her bed, that the laughing and twittering

resumes.

Cat stares at the ceiling, her hand reaches inside her

jumper, takes out the medal her father gave her. She holds

it close in her hand, just lays that way.

INT. DORMITORY - NIGHT

All the girls are asleep in their beds. Silence reigns,

except for the small cries and sighs of girls asleep.

CLOSE ON CAT

Her eyes still open, her hand clutching her father's medal.

She gets up.

INT. HALL - NIGHT

Cat makes her way down the hall. At the end of the Hall

is a door marked EXIT. But she is not looking at the exit

she is looking for something else. And she finds it. A

door marked: HEADMISTRESS.

Cat tries the door, it is locked. She takes her father's

medal from around her neck, and uses it to pop the lock.

Looking left and right to make sure the coast is clear,

she enters.

INT. HEADMISTRESSES OFFICE - NIGHT

Cat tries the drawer where the Headmistress locked her

money away. She looks around, takes a letter opener off

the desk, pops the drawer, extracts the envelope with her

name on it.

INT. HALL - NIGHT

Again Cat walks down the darkened hall, looking for another

door. Finds it marked: INFIRMARY.

INT. INFIRMARY - NIGHT

Cat walks along the cabinets containing the pharmaceuticals

until she finds what she is looking for. She smashes the

glass door, reaches in, extracts one bottle.

CLOSE ON SHERRI ASLEEP

PULL BACK TO

INT. DORMITORY - NIGHT

Cat, with four belts slung over her shoulder, the bottle

from the infirmary in one in one hand, a cloth in the other,

stands over the sleeping Sherri.

Cat pours the contents of the bottle out into the cloth.

Seals the bottle. Puts it down. Then takes the cloth and

places it over Sherri's sleeping face, ever so gently.

FADE TO BLACK

EXT. HORIZON - SUNRISE

The sun comes up over the horizon, casts it's first rays

through the windows of...

INT. DORMITORY - MORNING

The sun hits the faces of the girls. As they wake, they

find two very interesting things.

1. A twenty dollar bill on each bed.

2. Sherri fast asleep, her hands and feet tied to the post

of the bed with belts, her shirt pulled up, her money belt

gone. And the word THIEF written in magic marker across

her stomach. And the drawing of the Cataleya orchid.

A kind faced Hispanic woman, a...

PULL BACK TO

INT. BUS STATION - DAY

Cat, barely up to the window, hands the ticket agent the

piece of paper her father gave her. The woman looks at

the paper.

Cat holds up the envelope from the headmistresses office.

MONTAGE DAY/NIGHT

The landscape of America passes by through the window of a

bus. Clutching a new Lara Croft comic, nibbling on a big

Mac and fries out of a bag, Cat sees...

The sugar cane harvests in the Florida wetlands.

Two big fat black women sitting on the porch of a shack

shelling peas in the deep South.

The Steel Mills of Pittsburgh fire up.

The endless expanse of corn and wheat stretching from

horizon to horizon across Ohio.

The giant milk barns of Indiana with their hundreds of

cows.

And finally, sees the great city of Chicago looming in the

distance as the bus hurls down the highway towards it.

EXT. CHICAGO BUS TERMINAL - NIGHT

As seedy as any bus terminal. People bustling, people

hustling. A veritable cauldron of humanity bubbling with

the good, the bad, the ugly. The predators and the prey.

Cat exits into this stew of life, looks around, checks

things out. As she is checked out in turn by some pretty

sleazy types.

Cat ignores the eyes following her, walks up to a dwarf

hawking newspapers. Hands him her slip of paper. He points

her in a direction.

Cat walks across the neighborhoods of Chicago.

Sees the signs in Polish change into signs in Italian, in

Spanish, Chinese, Ethiopian.

She hands her paper to an Ethiopian cabbie. He points her

onward.

She walks past bars where black gangbangers watch her pass.

She hands one her paper, he points her on.

She walks past massive churches, synagogues, mosques.

She walks past the stately houses of the Gold Coast, along

the deserted stretches of the glam shops on Michigan Avenue,

over the bridges...

Until she comes to...

EXT. ROUGH NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

The denizens of this world look every bit as dangerous as

they are. Gangbangers, con artists, trouble waiting to

happen at every turn.

ANGLE ON CAT

Cat, walking down the block as the eyes of everyone she

passes follow her. She stops on a street corner. Seems

lost. Opposite her a group of men, hanging outside a bar

see her. The leader of the group calls her over.

Cat shakes her head.

Cat hands him her paper. He looks at her, suspicious.

The man takes a moment...

He disappears up a small alley into the darkness beyond.

Cat, not knowing what to do, sits down on the curb, watches

street life. She sees...

Hookers soliciting men in passing cars.

Cops sitting in a patrol car, bored, blase.

Men playing craps against a wall.

Some very discreet dope deals, more sleight of hand than

anything else.

CLOSE ON A FIST COLLIDING WITH A FACE

A very bloodied face. Once, twice, three times.

PULL BACK TO

INT. ROOM - NIGHT

EMILIO RESTREPO, 35, a hard case, fuck with me at your own

risk written all over his face, is about to deliver another

crushing blow to a poor soul strapped to a chair when...

The beating stops, Emilio turns.

He turns back to the task at hand. Cocks his fist.

Again, Emilio stops. The man hands her Cat's paper.

This focuses Emilio's attention.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Cat is sitting watching the street, when a pair of legs

appear in front of her. Cat looks up to the man who

disappeared.

He turns abruptly, heads back up the alley.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Cat follows the man through a darkened alley. At intervals,

on either side, dangerous looking men, armed to the teeth,

stand in the shadows. The man opens a door, beckons Cat

to enter.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Cat follows the man as he moves down a long hallway. Cat

looks into the rooms on either side of the hall as she

walks along.

In one room, opening out to a trucking bay, TV sets are

being unloaded into a big warehouse full of stolen

merchandise.

In another room, guns are being serviced. Lots of guns,

hand guns, assault rifles. Big artillery.

Cat's attention is drawn away from the room with the guns,

to the Man holding a door open for her at the very end of

the hall.

INT. OFFICE - NIGHT

Cat enters an office with three women working on computers.

Looks like any other business office. At the sight of

Cat, the women get up and exit, closing the door behind

them. Cat is left alone.

She looks around the office, when the sound of a door

opening behind her. She turns to Emilio. Who approaches

her cautiously, scrutinizing her.

Now it is Cat who hesitates.

Emilio covers his mouth, seems rocked.

He crosses himself.

Cat stands stock still. Emilio takes her up in his arms,

lifts her, crushes her to his chest. Cat remains suspended,

emotionless for a moment. And then, for the first time

emotion, real emotion, washes across her face. Her lower

lip begins to tremble. Tears well up in her eyes. She

bursts into tears.

All the emotion, the fear, the anger that she has kept

locked away deep inside, rushes to the surface in one

massive wave.

EXT. CHICAGO - MORNING

The sun peeks over the horizon, spreading the fog infused

light coming off Lake Michigan across the sleeping city as

it ascends in the sky.

One beam of sunlight slips through the narrow crack between

a window and the shade covering it.

The ray of sunlight washes across Cat's sleeping face.

She wakes slowly. Her eyes open after a long sleep. For

a moment she does not remember where she is.

PULL BACK TO

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

Cat looks around the clean, orderly bedroom as she gathers

her thoughts. Her eyes move around the room. It is a

boy's room.

With models of soldiers, futuristic warriors, a big poster

of Al Pacino as Tony Montana in SCARFACE. A poster with

every imaginable type of assault rifle.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Emilio sits reading the financial section of the morning

paper over what seems to be the remains of a very hearty

breakfast. An elderly woman, grandmotherly, fills his

coffee cup.

A noise turns both of them to the doorway and Cat.

Mama caresses her face, her eyes glisten with a

grandmother's love. Kisses her on the forehead, lovingly,

whispers into her ear.

Slowly, hesitantly, Cat makes her way across the kitchen

to the table, where she sits opposite Emilio, tentative.

His voice holds anger, not sadness.

Mama comes over, puts a plate of eggs in front of her. As

she begins to wolf down the food. He holds up the page of

her drawing, the one her Father put his address on.

Shoveling more food into her mouth.

Chewing, Cat shakes her head.

She keeps shoveling food in her mouth. Emilio looks up at

his mother, who crosses herself. Cat finishes the last

mouthful, looks up.

Emilio blinks once.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Emilio walks Cat down the street. He is carrying a kids

book bag.

CLOSE ON MONEY BEING COUNTED

PULL BACK TO

INT. PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - DAY

The PRINCIPAL watches Emilio count the money out.

Cat looks out the window, saying nothing.

He hands a list over to Cat. Who keeps looking out the

window.

Emilio takes them.

She keeps looking out the window.

EXT. SCHOOL - DAY

As Emilio walks along, with Cataleya, reading the list of

supplies.

He turns left at the cross street...

He looks down, sees no Cat. Looks back to see Cat walking

in the opposite direction.

Cat keeps going.

He hurries, catches up with her.

She walks off. Emilio grabs her.

Emilio draws a .357 magnum pistol from his shoulder holster,

and empties the entire clip into the front of a car coming

down the street. The car careens off the road, smashes a

fire hydrant, crashes through a plate glass window of a

shop across the street. The water from the hydrant shoot

twenty feet in the air. Emilio holsters his gun.

Cat glares at him.

He holds out the gun in one hand, and the schoolbag in the

other. Cat hesitates for a moment. Takes the schoolbag

from Emilio. Then takes his hand, and they walk off

together as police sirens announce the arrival of cruisers,

and people pour out of the school and the surrounding

stores. As they put distance between the chaos and

themselves.

FADE TO BLACK

EXT. FRESNO - NIGHT

A sleepy California town on the way to nowhere.

PAN DOWN TO

EXT. SIDE STREET - NIGHT

A police cruiser sits on a quiet street, right off a wider

avenue. Main street. There is no traffic either way.

The nose of the cop car juts out just off the street.

INT. POLICE CRUISER - NIGHT

Two cops are sitting, peeling back the wrappers on their

burgers.

As they nibble and talk, they pay scant attention to a set

of headlights coming up the broad avenue.

The lights come closer...

The lights shine right into the car.

Only then, when the lights are directly on them, do the

cops turn to see a car heading right toward their front

end.

CRASH!!!!

The front end of the cop car gets sheared right off by the

impact. Glass shatters, metal crunches, airbags explode!

The other car. The drivers door opens. A vodka bottle

falls out, clinks to the sidewalk. And a moment later,

two legs emerge from the car. Two very long, very shapely

legs. Legs that never end. In very high heels, and a

very short mini skirt. And the face on top of it, framed

by a mane of wild hair, is drop dead think-you-have-died-

and-gone-to-heaven gorgeous. The whole package reads

SUPERMODEL. And by the way she is weaving when she stands,

and the bottle at her feet, the read is; very drunk

supermodel. Who looks at the crumpled police cruiser,

looks into the windshield of the cruiser at the stunned

cops, and says in the most sweetly drunk voice...

The cops can't believe this. They regain their wits and

bolt out of the car.

And, ever so sensually, she starts to laugh. The cops

look at each other, perplexed. And she keeps laughing.

The cops get pissed.

...and she keeps laughing.

And even when they slam her to the hood of the car, jam

her hands behind her back, and slap the cuffs on, she keeps

laughing, and laughing.

CLOSE ON HER CHEST

WHERE A VERY FAMILIAR MEDALLION ON A CHAIN HANGS BETWEEN

HER EXPOSED CLEAVAGE. A MEDALLION ENGRAVED WITH THE

CATALEYA ORCHID.

IT IS CAT, ALL GROWN UP.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

A quiet night in the small station. Cat stands in front

of the booking desk, so drunk the two cops have to hold

her up. A surveillance camera over the desk innocuously

records everything. Cat keeps her head down, her face,

obscured by her mane of hair.

As the SERGEANT goes through her purse, finds...

He reads off the library card.

The Sergeant and the arresting cops holding her up give

her a long look, as do any of the other cops in ear shot,

whose eyes go to her very short skirt.

And she teeters over, passes out cold right on the

Sergeant's desk.

The two cops who booked her drag her out. As they do, the

Sergeant and the two other cops on duty lean over to try

and get a look up her very long legs and her very short

skirt.

EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Three black SUV's, with blacked out windows, come rolling

up to the station. The doors open and a dozen U.S. MARSHALS

jump out. Vigilant, forming a cordon around one of the

vehicles, out of which comes a hand cuffed, kevlar wearing

hard as nails MAFIA type. GENNARO RIZZO.

The Marshal's surround him, guns bristling, on the look

out for any danger, and hustle him towards the doors of

the police station.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The station doors slam open. Marshal's barge in. The

HEAD MARSHAL approaches the surprised Sergeant on the desk,

flashes his credentials.

He rifles through some papers. Finds one.

INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

The Marshals come down the cell block, checking everything

out. They pass Cat in her cell, passed out cold, her long

legs and short skirt slows their progress a bit. After a

long look, they move on.

INT. SECURE CELL - NIGHT

Rizzo is pushed into a cell. The door is slammed and

locked.

He hands out thermos bottles.

INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

A lone cop passes Cat's cell, doing the nightly rounds.

As soon as he is gone...

Cat's eyes snap open. She sits up, moves with the

efficiency and determination of someone who has not has a

drop of alcohol. She takes a spoon from the coffee cup

left for her, reaches into her mane of hair and extracts a

small pin. She inserts the pin into the keyhole of the

door, jiggles it. The door pops open.

Cat exits the cell, takes a broom leaning in the corner,

and keeping her eye on the camera above the door, she slides

along the wall, until she is just under the camera. She

uses the broom handle to tilt the camera up just a bit.

INT. SECURITY MONITORING ROOM - NIGHT

One lone cop sits in front of the various monitors. He

does not notice that one tilts slightly up, points toward

a blank wall.

INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

Cat, under the camera, unlocks the second door, slips out.

INT. HALL - NIGHT

Cat comes into the hall where several vending machines

lean against the wall. On the far side is a door marked:

ELECTRICAL. She is about to head for it, when she hears a

door open at the far end of the hall.

ANGLE ON THE DOOR

At the far end of the hall. A cop comes in, looks down

the hall. Where Cat was standing he sees only the vending

machines. He heads right for the machines. Puts coins in

the machine, waits for his food.

ANGLE ON THE SIDE OF THE MACHINE

Where Cat is pressed hard against the flat surface, inches

from the cop.

The sandwich falls, the cop retrieves it, moves off, exits

down the hall. Cat waits until she hears the door shut on

the far end of the wall. She crosses quickly to the door

across the way, enters.

CLOSE ON A UTILITY BOX PULLED OPEN

Revealing the electrical control panel for the station.

PULL BACK TO

INT. ELECTRICAL ROOM - NIGHT

Cat stands on a narrow shelf, undoes the last screws on a

vent in the ceiling with a screwdriver from the tool board

on one wall.

Cat drops down, opens the electrical control panel on the

wall, studies it for a moment, finds the switch she is

looking for, then turns to the wall of tools, plucks some

wire, a cutter, a spring.

Cat sets to work on a jury rigged mechanism with the items

at hand. When she is finished, she tugs at the waist band

of her mini skirt, and little by little she stretches a

thin dun colored leotard suit over her whole body. She

takes a small plastic vial, fills it with some water from

the tap, and sets it, just so, above the device she has

constructed.

The device is hooked to the switch she selected, a small

weight hangs from the bottom of it by a wire. She sets

the water container just so over the spoon from her cell.

The water begins to drip a drop at a time. She closes the

panel door, sets her digital watch. Hoists herself up to

the vent in the ceiling, and is gone.

CLOSE ON THE JURY RIGGED DEVICE

Water dripping into the spoon a drop at a time.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Once inside the grate, Cat takes one of the buttons off

her blouse and presses the top of it. The button becomes

a pin light, which she clasps between her teeth, starts to

crawl on her stomach, pulling herself along by her elbows

and her wriggling hips and knees, the light still between

her teeth.

TRACK WITH CAT

As she moves through the maze of ducts. On the way, she

peers through the grates in each ceiling, down into one

cell after another, catching various views of inmates asleep

as she passes over them. Until she comes to a ventilation

fan blocking the way. The fan blades go round and round.

Cat looks at her watch, looks at the fan.

CLOSE ON THE ELECTRICAL PANEL

And Cat's jury rigged device. The water has almost filled

the spoon, one more drop, one more drop.

CLOSE ON CAT LOOKING AT HER WATCH

The digital counter goes from 4 to 3 to 2 to 1...

The last drop of water drips into the spoon, the spoon

tips, tugging on the wire, the wire trips the switch it is

connected to, the whole device comes apart, the separate

pieces fall to the floor.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

The fan stops. The blades slow.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The sergeant at the desk hears the ventilation system go

off.

He calls to one of the other cops on duty.

Doyle moves off.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Cat watches the blades of the vent fan slow. When they

have completely stopped she starts to move herself through

the very narrow space between the now stilled blades, feet

first.

INT. ELECTRICAL ROOM - NIGHT

Doyle enters the room, opens the electrical panel. The

spoon, the weight, the spring, and the wire, fall to the

floor. Doyle looks at them curiously for a moment.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Cat is half way through the fan blades.

INT. ELECTRICAL ROOM - NIGHT

Doyle looks at the switches, going down the printed list

on the door, trying to locate the right one.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Cat is almost through.

INT. ELECTRICAL ROOM - NIGHT

Doyle finds the switch that corresponds to the ventilation

system.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Cat's neck passes through the fan blades. Slow going.

INT. ELECTRICAL ROOM - NIGHT

Doyle hits the switch for the ventilation system.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Cat is just through, when the blades start moving, brush

against her forehead, as she makes it to the other side

with no time, and no room to spare.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Cat comes to a vent, looks down, begins to loosen the vent

screws.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Cat drops down into a bathroom. Looks at her watch. Sits

down, waiting.

INT. PROTECTIVE CUSTODY - NIGHT

Rizzo is asleep in his cell. The Marshal on duty finishes

his coffee. Looks at Rizzo.

Then walks over to the door at the end of the wall. He

hits a buzzer on the wall.

INT. SECURITY MONITORING ROOM - NIGHT

The cop manning the bank of monitors, wakes up, sees the

Marshal in the monitor.

The monitor hits a button.

INT. PROTECTIVE CUSTODY - NIGHT

The door buzzes open. The Marshal passes through.

INT. HALL - NIGHT

The Marshal pushes the bathroom door open. Enters.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

The Marshal finishes peeing, zips himself up. Turns.

Right into a devastating reverse wheel kick.

INT. SECURITY MONITORING ROOM - NIGHT

The cop on duty hears a buzz, looks up to the bank of

monitors, and sees the Marshal standing at the door.

Thinking nothing of it, he hits the buzzer.

INT. HALL - NIGHT

Cat, propping the unconscious Marshal up, hides behind

him. As the door buzzes, she maneuvers the body around,

pushes through. On the other side, she drops the body,

and takes his gun.

INT. SECURITY MONITORING ROOM - NIGHT

On the monitor it looks like the Marshal is passing through.

INT. PROTECTIVE CUSTODY - NIGHT

Rizzo is half asleep, when the barrel of a gun taps him on

the head. He opens his eyes slowly to...

Rizzo looks over to where the Marshal is passed out cold

on the floor. He does as he is told.

She pumps four bullets into his head.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

BAMBAMBAMBAM!!!

The four shots reverberate throughout the station.

EXT. POLICE STATION PERIMETER - NIGHT

BAMBAMBAMBAM!!!!

Two patrols of two Marshal's each hear the shots.

INT. SECURITY MONITORING ROOM - NIGHT

BAMBAMBAMBAM!!!

The monitor wakes up.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cops and Marshal's, guns drawn, come running.

INT. PROTECTIVE CUSTODY - NIGHT

The knocked out Marshal comes to. Finds a gun in his hand.

Doesn't get it, until he looks over to see Rizzo, with his

face blown off.

INT. PROTECTIVE CUSTODY - NIGHT

The door flies open and the Marshal's and cops come pouring

through, to find the Marshal with the gun in his hand and

the dead Rizzo.

The Marshal is frozen, totally confused.

More guns. More confusion. Tension beyond the moon.

The Marshal drops his gun.

FROM THE POV OF SOMEONE ELSE.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Cat looks through the vent over the cell. Sees the wobbly

confused Marshal with the gun in his hand, hears feet coming

fast.

EXT. ROOF OF POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cat comes climbing out of a ventilation duct onto the roof.

She looks out over the side of the building. Marshal's

stationed outside are running into the building.

Cat takes off running.

INT. PROTECTIVE CUSTODY - NIGHT

The cops are cuffing the Marshal.

Another Marshal is checking Rizzo.

EXT. ROOF OF POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cat is running as fast as she can.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cops and Marshals are running through every room, checking

everywhere.

EXT. ROOF OF POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cat reaches another air vent, so about to pry it off when

she hears...

INT. DOORWAY - NIGHT

Cops running up the stairs, headed for a door above them.

EXT. ROOF OF POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cat hears the door begin to open. She bangs her high heels

together. And two blades come out of the front. She sees

the door knob turning. She runs for the roof's edge.

AND VAULTS OVER THE SIDE!

INT. DOORWAY - NIGHT

The cops burst through the door to...

EXT. ROOF OF POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The cops pour onto the roof, looking around, guns drawn.

ANGLE ON CAT ON THE SIDE OF THE BUILDING

Clinging to the wall like a gekko. The dun colored wall

blending with her dun colored suit. How is she doing this?

CLOSE ON CAT'S SHOES

The blades fitted into the seam between the bricks. Her

fingertips clinging to the small lip on the bottom of the

roof's edge.

The cops look around the roof.

She holds there listening to the noise above. Hears noise

below, looks down to see...

EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cops searching the alley below.

Hanging to the edge of the building. Listening, watching.

EXT. ROOF OF POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The cops, finding nothing, head back out the door. A moment

later...

CLOSE ON THE ROOF LEDGE

Cat's hand reaches up.

When one hand has a firm grasp on the roof ledge, she lets

go with the other hand and grasps the ledge, extracts the

blades from the brick seams, and swings herself up on the

roof. As her shoes dislodge, some mortar comes loose and

falls below.

ON THE COPS BELOW

The crumbling mortar falls on the head of one cop, he looks

down, sees the crumbly gravel, looks up, sees nothing.

EXT. ROOF OF POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cat lands on the roof, lays still.

ON THE COP BELOW

He examines the gravel, looks up again. And then moves

on.

EXT. ROOF OF POLICE STATION - CONTINUOUS

Cat pries the vent cover off, slips in.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cops are checking every cell in the men's block.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Cat is crawling along as fast as she can.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The cops come to the entrance of the woman's cell block.

INT. AIR DUCTS - NIGHT

Cat comes to the vent in the hallway.

INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

The cops open the door to the women's cell block.

INT. CELL - NIGHT

Cat runs. Begins to pull at her leotard.

INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

The cops look at the women's cells, heading right toward

Cat's. As they reach Cat's, the same cop who did the rounds

at the beginning of the night looks into her cell. Cat is

laying on her side, away from them, dead asleep, in the

same position she was when the cop first checked on her.

The cops pause for a moment, then move on.

CLOSE ON CAT

Her eyes are wide open. She listens for the outer door

closing, and then she breathes out, relieved.

EXT. CITY MORGUE - NIGHT

An ambulance pulls up, along with the Marshal contingent

in their SUV's. The Marshal's spill out of the SUV's as a

gurney with a corpse is wheeled into the morgue.

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

As the Marshal's stand around, the Police Coroner begins

to unbutton the shirt of Rizzo the corpse.

On Rizzo's chest the word TRAITOR is written in thick black

letters. And above them, a drawing of the Cataleya orchid.

The Marshal's knows what this is.

EXT. SMALL AIRPORT - MORNING

The door of a small jet opens and MARCUS ROSS, 48, a keen

eyed, no nonsense all business FBI agent, followed by a

team of similarly focused men and women, exits down the

stairs to...

EXT. POLICE STATION - MORNING

Reporters are gathered, trying to gain access. The police

are keeping them out.

INT. POLICE STATION - MORNING

Over the clamor of reporters outside, Cat is just finishing

with her finger printing, wipes off as much of the ink as

she can. The Sergeant hands over her library card.

Alluding to all the commotion she sees through the window

looking out into the main room.

He hands her a sheaf of papers and a pen. As the pen hits

the paper.

CLOSE ON RIZZO'S PAINTED STOMACH

PULL BACK TO

INT. MORGUE - MORNING

Ross, with his team standing off his shoulder, looks down

at the stomach.

INT. POLICE STATION - MORNING

Cat hands the paper work over to the sergeant.

Keeping her back to the security camera overhead, Cat

collects her things and exits. As the door closes...

A DOOR TO AN SUV OPENS...

EXT. POLICE STATION - MORNING

Ross exits the SUV to the crowd of reporters.

Ross sees cops coming and going from the station. He turns

to the Marshal with him.

Ross cannot believe what he is hearing.

ANGLE ON CAT

Exiting the station. Ross and his team sweep past her.

Cat just keeps walking, right past Ross, who heads into

the station as the cops try to keep the reporters at bay.

ANGLE ON CAT

Walking away from the pandemonium she is leaving behind.

As it recedes over her shoulder, she picks at her fingers

where the fingerprinting ink has stained them. Her prints

come off! She drops the fake prints down a sewer and keeps

walking.

INT. PROTECTIVE CUSTODY - MORNING

Ross scrutinizes Rizzo's cell as his team takes prints,

photos, sweeps the cell for evidence.

He looks up to the end of the hall.

CLOSE ON LOCKER OPENING

PULL BACK TO

INT. BUS STATION - DAY

Cat extracts a knapsack from the locker, heads for the

woman's bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM STALL - DAY

Cat tugs at her hair. The wild mane comes off to reveal

her straight hair, which she pulls back in a pony tail.

She begins to strip out of her mini skirt.

INT. BUS STATION - DAY

Cat dressed in jeans, a scuffed leather jacket, a baseball

cap, with the brim pulled low over her eyes, with her pony

tail sticking out of the back, the knap sack on her

shoulder, waits on line to board the bus. She keeps her

back to the security camera, has her phone to her ear. A

number is ringing.

INT. EMILIO'S HOUSE - DAY

Emilio, fifteen years older, is watching a soccer game,

picks up the phone. In the kitchen, Mama is cooking.

INTERCUT BETWEEN THE TWO

Cat moves up the line to board the bus.

He looks over to Mama at the stove, who waves over her

shoulder.

He hangs up, goes back to his game.

INT. BUS STATION - DAY

Cat boards the bus. The doors close behind her.

As the camera ZOOMS up, and the bus pulls out onto the

road...

INT. POLICE STATION - DAY

Ross is pointing up at the camera Cat tilted.

He turns to his team.

No one on the team can dispute this. It occurs to Ross...

EXT. UPSCALE RESIDENTIAL NEW ORLEANS NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

A Lincoln town car comes down the leafy, quiet street of

well kept homes. Stops at a gate guarded by two men, who

wave him through.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

The car ends up in front of a very impressive house, which

sits at the end of a long driveway. Toward the era of the

walled property, a garage, and a guest house. MR. RICHARD,

in a suit and tie, looking like a proper mid level

government official, or a lawyer, exits, newspaper in hand.

As he approaches the front door, Richard looks over to see

two more guards, off to the side. He nods to them, knows

them. They nod back.

Richard approaches the front door, knocks. While he is

waiting, he looks down at the paper.

The door opens.

Richard looks up to a fifteen year older Marco.

Marco holds up his scarred hand.

Richard enters. The door closes.

INT. SALON - DAY

Don Luis stares out a bay window, drink in hand.

Don Luis turns.

He holds the paper up.

CLOSE ON A PICTURE OF DEAD RIZZO ON THE FRONT PAGE.

He slaps the newspaper down with the picture of Rizzo.

As he goes to leave.

Richard exits.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Richard walks to his car, observed by...

INT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Don Luis reaches out, fast as a Cobra, grabbing Marco by

the lapel, pulling him close.

CLOSE ON A BUS DOOR OPENS

Cat steps off the bus. Looks around to...

EXT. CHICAGO BUS STATION - DAY

The total full on crush of people that a major metropolitan

bus terminal holds. She sees a surveillance camera tucked

in a corner. She pulls the brim of her hat low over her

eyes, takes off into the crowd.

EXT. CHICAGO STREET - DAY

Cat comes to a non descript high rise. She enters.

INT. CAT'S APARTMENT - DAY

Cat enters a completely bare bones dwelling, there is

nothing that identifies the person who lives here. White

bare walls, a table with one chair, a single bed. Along

one wall, a cabinet. On the window sill a single Cataleya

orchid. Cat waters the orchid.

Cat opens the cabinet to three computer screens. Two of

them are divided into quarters and show various views of

the building entrance, the lobby, the stairway, the

elevator, the hallway.

The third screen is dark, until Cat hits a button and music

fills the apartment. Music with a heavy sensual back beat.

French Rap. Ooh la la. And the screen pulses and glows

in time to the beat. Cat's body responds to the music,

moving sexy, her shoulders rolling, her hips swaying.

Cat sashays across the open space, a stripper strutting

her stuff; shedding, first her blouse, then her jeans, her

lingerie, until, by the time she reaches a free standing

opaque cylinder of a shower with an opaque shower curtain,

she is completely nude. She enters the shower. Turns on

the water.

Like a snake shedding a skin, she lets the water divest

her of everything that came before.

CLOSE ON A PICTURE OF RIZZO BEING PINNED TO A WALL

PULL BACK TO

INT. FBI OFFICE - DAY

Ross has just pinned up Rizzo's picture on a wall filled

with twenty two other deceased, all with words and a

CATALEYA ORCHID imprint on their stomach's. He turns to

face his team.

He points to Rizzo on the wall.

Points to a gorgeous dead woman with the word GRIFTER on

her stomach.

Points to a huge black man with USURPER written in white

letters across his chest.

He points to two Mexicans, identical twins, one with PAY

written on his chest, the other with the word BACK...

He holds up a stack of folders from his desk.

He hits a button and the video replay of Cat walking the

unconscious guard through the door.

He freezes the tape. Points to the time mark on the tape.

He begins to hand the folders out.

THE CITY OF CHICAGO.

As an elevator train rumbles by below...

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

An elevator train rumbles by above.

PAN DOWN TO

A car parking. And DANNY DELANEY, preoccupied, a pleasant,

easy going, good looker at 28, closes the door, and walks

to the entrance of his low slung apartment building. He

enters.

INT. DANNY'S HALLWAY - NIGHT

Danny puts his key in the door, finds that it is unlocked.

He pauses, then enters.

INT. DANNY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Danny enters his darkened apartment. Goes to turn on the

switch...

Danny's hand freezes. He stands very still.

Danny complies.

He does. To darkness. And then, a match is struck, a

candle is lit. Standing before him, in garters, thigh

highs, a very sexy bra, and fuck me pumps is...

Cat closes to an inch of him.

She begins to kiss him, lightly around the mouth.

She keeps kissing him, lightly on the neck...

He fumbles for the words.

She keeps nibbling.

Licking him.

She stops. Looks him in the eye.

She resumes nibbling on his neck.

She runs her nails down his chest, slowly, teasing. Her

hand finds his groin. What she finds makes her smile.

She gently lowers his hands to his sides, holds them there.

Kisses him deeply. Pushes him down onto the floor. And

lowers herself on top of him. A small moan escapes his

lips as she takes him inside her.

INT. DANNY'S APARTMENT - DAWN

Danny wakes. His face holds the smile of the memory of

the night before. He turns his head, lazily. The pillow

beside him is empty.

Cat is gone. Danny's smile fades.

EXT. ELEVATOR TRAIN - MORNING

Emilio walks down the stairs, carrying a shopping bag.

TRACK WITH HIM ALONG THE STREET. Until he comes to a

Laundromat.

INT. LAUNDROMAT - MORNING

Emilio loads laundry from the shopping bag into a machine,

puts in the coins, then sits down on a bench to watch the

cycle. Seems to talk to himself.

And then we see he is talking to...

Emilio takes a manila envelope out of the bag. Places it

on the seat next to him. Cat picks it up, looks through

it.

CLOSE ON A MAGAZINE PULLED FROM THE ENVELOPE

The cover features WILLIAM WOOGARD, 45, the most unassuming,

baldheaded, pudgy faced man, a nerd. Under the headline:

PREDATOR.

Cat goes to get up.

He slaps the newspaper down with Rizzo's picture on the

front page.

As she goes to rise, Emilio grabs her hand.

Cat smiles. A smile that could melt ice in winter. But a

knowing smile. A 'Don't bullshit a bullshitter' smile.

The truth of her words deprive him of his. She kisses him

him on the forehead.

And she exits, leaving Emilio more concerned. He looks

down at the picture.

CLOSE ON THE ORCHID WHICH MORPHS INTO...

A REAL CATALEYA ORCHID ON A COMPUTER SCREEN WITH THE WORD

CATALEYA BEING TYPED IN THE SEARCH BAR

PULL BACK TO

INT. FBI OFFICE - DAY

Ross is at his computer, staring at the screen and the

orchid, alongside a map of Colombia and the specific region

where the Cataleya is found. He thinks.

He types. Data comes up. And what he sees stuns him...

A folder marked CIA: CONFIDENTAL. ACCESS DENIED.

OVER THE SOUND OF CHIMES...

EXT. PEPE'S WAREHOUSE/HOME - DAY

A ramshackle warehouse, it's windows streaked opaque with

years of dust and grime, surrounded by a fence, and a weedy

garden which is home to dozens of the most unique wind

chimes of all sizes and shapes, made from scrap metal.

And two of the biggest, most ferocious dogs on Earth, laying

on their sides, asleep.

The dog's ears perk up; hearing something we don't, a low

growl begins to rumble deep in their throats. The gate to

the garden begins to open, and like a shot the dogs are

up, hurling themselves toward the opening gate, eyes

flashing, barking loud enough to scare the dead back to

life, fangs bared, ready to kill.

And then they stop cold when they see who it is coming

into their domain.

REVERSE ON CAT

Holding two very full shopping bags.

And the dogs jump all over her, licking her.

She pets them, plays with them.

The dogs obey her in a heartbeat, sitting expectantly.

Not making a sound.

She reaches into one of the shopping bags, pulls out two

roasts!

Which she puts down on the ground. The dog's eyes go to

the chunks of meat.

The dogs can barely contain themselves.

The dogs whimper in anticipation.

She picks up the shopping bags, and heads for the ramshackle

warehouse. The dogs moan, but do not move, their eyes

going from the meat to Cat.

Cat reaches the door. Turns. Sees the dogs looking at

her.

The dogs pounce. Each one grabs a roast and tears into

the meat with ferocious, pent up glee. Cat smiles at the

sight, enters the warehouse.

INT. PEPE'S WAREHOUSE/HOME - DAY

The warehouse, is filled with piles of rusting scrap metal,

the cannibalized carcasses of cars, trucks, shipping

containers, welding equipment, hammers tongs, all sorts of

tools. In the corner is one fully built truck, a big red

monster with huge demolition fenders.

This is home to OLD PEPE, an ancient, blind man, who is

working away, building yet another set of oversized chimes

out of scrap metal.

Cat kisses Pepe, taps one of the chimes, it makes the most

ethereal sound as one chime bangs against the other. She

opens a cupboard in the makeshift kitchen area, and starts

unpacking the groceries.

She moves from the kitchen, walks across to the far wall.

Until she reaches a big discarded safe, taller than her,

with an impregnable door.

She turns the combination knob.

The door opens, reveals shelves with dozens of passports,

stacks of cash.

Cat starts to remove some of the cash. Starts to count

it. Stick it in her pocket.

She takes a passport out.

She slams the big safe door shut.

EXT. CARIBBEAN ISLAND - DAY

From the air, surrounded by the bluest of waters. Bestowed

with the greenest of verdant foliage. Surrounded by

exquisite beaches.

A spray of water fills the screen. Comes from...

THREE OF THE HOTTEST NYMPHETTES IN THE SMALLEST BIKINIS

SPLASHING AROUND A SWIMMING POOL HAVING THE BEST TIME

SPLASHING WATER AT WILLIAM WOOGARD, AS HE CHASES AFTER

THEM...

PULL BACK TO

EXT. COMPOUND - DAY

An exquisite villa surrounded by a high wall. As the girls

clamber out of the pool, ignoring the four armed body guards

patrolling poolside, they are met by three maids holding

robes for them to slip into.

The robes disappear.

As William slips into a robe held open for him, he grabs

the asses of two of the girls...

Giggling, the girls scamper toward the villa, where a

sumptuous table is set on the veranda, attended by more

servants. William is handed a drink, as he sips it, watches

their perfect, barely covered butts, his eyes pools of

desire, the servant holds out an envelope.

Perplexed, William takes his eyes off the girls and regards

the envelope. No return address, no stamps. He opens it,

and his perplexed look goes to one of concern.

CLOSE ON THE NOTE

It says. SOMEONE IS LOOKING FOR YOU. BE CAREFUL. A

FRIEND.

William cannot fathom what this is all about. But he does

not like it.

EXT. CARIBBEAN ISLAND - SUNSET

Over hot dance hall music, the sun sets magnificently into

the shimmering sea...

INT. VILLA - EVENING

The music blasts throughout the villa. Sexy, hot. There

are several bodyguards stationed all around.

INT. SALON - EVENING

Two of the girls dance erotically for William, who reclines

on an oversized couch, smoking from a hookah.

The third girl is out in the foyer, laying on the glass

floor, which is the top of a large aquarium, where dozens

of sharks swim back and forth.

She taps on the floor, the sharks ignore her.

William comes over.

He lifts her up like a piece of luggage. As she squeals

with delight...

The other girls come running. The party moves up the

winding staircase. The bodyguards look at each other,

roll their eyes.

INT. VILLA - NIGHT

William is at the double doors to his massive bedroom suite,

the girls are on the bed in the BG jumping around, in the

skimpiest bra and panty sets, having a pillow fight.

The doors close, and lock. Wild shrieks come from inside.

EXT. VILLA - EVENING

A van rolls up to the main gate, half a dozen security men

exit.

As they all enter the villa, the CAMERA lingers on the

van. A figure dressed in black rolls out from under the

carriage as it pulls away and disappears into the bushes.

QUICK TIME CUTS

Two guards stand outside the bedroom door. Two guards are

on the stairs. Three guards in the salon. Three more in

the garden outside.

INT. VILLA - NIGHT

The Head of Security goes around the villa checking that

all the doors and windows are secure. His men are posted

outside the door to the bedroom, on the stairs, in the

salon. He closes lights as he goes.

He walks across the aquarium floor in the foyer to the

front door, closes the lights, so that only the glow from

the aquarium lights illuminate the dark. And he exits,

closing the door behind him, turning the lock.

CLOSE ON THE AQUARIUM

The sharks gliding back and forth. And then, a figure in

a black wet suit, fins and a mask, with a small back back,

comes gliding into through the sharks. Who just go about

their business. The figure stops at the edge of the glass

floor, takes something out of the back pack and very

skillfully cuts a small hole in one of the glass panels

that makes up the floor.

The diver lifts out of the aquarium, pulls back the wet

suit. It is Cat.

Cat opens the backpack, removes a silencer fitted pistol.

CLOSE ON THE BEDROOM DOORS OPENING

Cat enters, silent, closes the door, approaches the bed

where William is asleep sandwiched between the three passed

out girls. Empty champagne bottles and glasses are strewn

about.

Cat stares down at the scene, points her gun at William.

One of the girls rolls over onto William, ruining her shot.

She hesitates.

CLOSE ON WILLIAM'S FACE

As sits up suddenly, startled from sleep. No one is in

the room. He looks around, and notices the bedroom door

ajar. He is more awake now, sees the Nymphettes sleeping

soundly. He rises, dressed in a silk sleeping robe. He

feels something on his chest, goes over to the mirror,

opens his gown and sees, painted on his chest: In red

lipstick, the word THIEF, and a drawing of a Cataleya

orchid. Panic starts to set in.

No answer.

William tip toes to the ajar door. He peeks out and sees

two guards with bullets through their foreheads, blood

leaked out across the white marble floor. Really panicked,

he flattens himself against the inside of the door, his

breath coming in gasps.

INT. VILLA - NIGHT

William, holding the two guns of the dead guards in front

of him, makes his way down stairs, past two more dead

guards. Growing more and more nervous by the moment, he

tries a light switch on the wall, nothing.

The only light comes from the ambient glow of the aquarium

below. He reaches the bottom of the stairs.

No answer. He crosses the aquarium floor, and when he is

right in the middle...

Cat comes out of the dark. In her hand, a silencer fitted

pistol.

He pulls the trigger on his gun. Click, click, click. He

tries the other one. Again click click click.

And then, without warning, she puts a bullet in both his

knees.

He falls to the floor. The blood starts to seep out onto

the glass. The sharks swim back and forth.

She fires three shots into the glass square he is kneeling

on. The glass shatters. William falls into the water.

Grabs onto the squares on either side and props himself

up. His blood runs down into the clear water. Cat turns

and walks toward the door.

He struggles frantically to pull himself out. Cat exits.

And then the sharks hit. WHAM! And hit. And hit. And

hit.

He is violently dragged under.

The front page of a newspaper with a picture of the remains

of William under the headline: SHARKS EAT SHARK. The

newspaper drops to reveal Richard at his desk.

INT. CIA OFFICE - DAY

He drops the paper, is about to leave his office when the

phone on his desk rings. He answers.

Hiding his anger.

He hangs up. Seething.

Looking at his phone and the dial tone emittting from the

handset.

EXT. MIAMI AIRPORT - DAY

A plane lands.

INT. MIAMI AIRPORT - DAY

People disembark. We think Cat is getting off the plane.

It is Marco and two of his thugs. As he is crossing the

terminal, he passes a newspaper machine. The headline of

the paper in the window catches his eye: SHARKS EAT SHARK.

As he stares at the picture of the dead William, his phone

rings.

INT. CAR - DAY

A pissed off Richard is on the phone.

The newspaper picture of William being pinned to a board.

PULL BACK TO

INT. FBI OFFICE - DAY

Ross turns from pinning up the picture alongside the other

twenty two, to his team.

He reads.

The two agents look at each other, even more chagrined.

One of them pushes a button on the computer. And the three

angles come up. One has a shot of Cat's face covered by

her hair, one has a shot of her face covered by her hand,

and the third one has an angle of her nose.

Ross sighs.

The agents exit. Ross looks at the pictures on the board.

Cannot believe it.

EXT. MIAMI - LITTLE COLOMBIA - DAY

Marco and his thugs enter a small social club/bar.

INT. SOCIAL CLUB - DAY

A dimly lit place, where strangers are few and suspicious

looks from the rough men playing pool at the back to able

and lining the bar are par for the course.

EDUARDO, a small time hood, lines up a shot with a pool

cue, when a hand comes down on the ball he is about to

shoot. He looks up to...

He opens his arms. They hug. Eduardo is friendly, but

there is a hesitation, a tension in the air. As they break

marco takes a roll of cash out.

He goes to hand it to Eduardo.

Now the men at the bar are starting to take notice.

Eduardo takes the roll of bills and puts it in Marco's

shirt pocket.

The men at the bar are now edging closer. One of them has

a shot gun resting along his leg, inconspicuous, and

conspicuous at the same time.

Marco looks at Eduardo, who glares at him. Eduardo goes

to line up his shot. The tension in the room is thicker

by the moment. As Eduardo is about to hit the ball, Marco

grabs his hair and slams his forehead into the cue ball.

At the same moment, Marco's two thugs whip out their guns

and blast away. The shotgun wielding man, raises his gun,

and as he is killed by Marco, his blast takes out one of

Marco's thugs.

In an instant it is over. Everyone is dead, except Marco,

one of his thugs, and the dazed Eduardo. Marco notices

his ear is bleeding, touches it, it pisses him off that

blood has soiled his white shirt.

Pissed, Marco yanks Eduardo up from the floor and slams

him onto the pool table. Sticks his gun in his face.

A buzzer sounds...

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Danny opens the door to his building.

INT. DANNY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Danny enters to a candle lit room and...

She is in a very sexy lingerie top. Her hands are behind

her back.

She takes her hands out from behind her back, presents him

with a cute little stuffed alligator.

She starts to peel off the lingerie.

She stops.

She stands there, waiting.

She stops. Waiting.

He wiggles the toy.

Danny starts to laugh. Cat, caught in the moment, begins

to laugh as well.

She keeps staring, waiting.

Cat hesitates, standing there half dressed, feelings that

she never wants to deal with coming to the surface.

She stops.

He smiles, puts the stuffed animal aside.

Cat smiles, caught a bit off guard by his sweetness. He

approaches her, she goes to touch him. He puts her hands

down, gently.

And for the first time, she lets him touch her first.

Let's him kiss her lips, her neck, and as he goes south,

kissing as he goes, the CAMERA holds on her face, and for

the first time she allows herself to receive, to give

herself over to being the seduced rather than the seducer.

And she likes it.

FADE TO BLACK

EXT. CHICAGO - SUNRISE

The city wakes.

CLOSE ON DANNY

Waking. Turning over, expecting to find no one there.

Surprise this time. Because there is someone there,

sleeping peacefully, her face, half covered by her hair,

bathed in the soft light of dawn...

Cat.

Danny smiles, so pleased.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Danny puts the finishing touches on a breakfast tray. He

looks at the stuffed animal she brought him. It warms his

heart.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

Danny stands with the breakfast tray, looking at Cat

sleeping. He cannot quite believe it. He puts the tray

down, takes his iPhone, points it at her, goes to take a

picture.

REVERSE ON CAT

She wakes with a start. To find Danny standing there with

a breakfast tray, and a big smile on his face.

Cat is disoriented.

Cat jumps out of bed, starts to dress quickly.

Pulls on her jeans.

Pulls on her top.

Slips into her shoes. Does not answer.

As she heads for the door, she turns.

And with a small smile, she is gone.

INT. HALL - MORNING

Outside Danny's door, Cat crosses to the elevator, waits

for it to come. As she does, she fixes her clothes a bit,

her eyes on Danny's door.

The door doesn't open. The elevator arrives. She takes a

deep breath, enters. The door closes.

EXT. PAINT SUPPLY STORE - DAY

Cat comes running in.

INT. PAINT SUPPLY STORE - DAY

Cat hurries down the aisle, keeping an eye on the security

camera. Making sure she stays on the far side, out of

it's range. She stops in the middle of the aisle, starts

to examine paint brushes.

ANGLE ON EMILIO

Standing next to her, looking at a color chart, hidden

from the security camera, as is she. He is pissed. He

has the newspaper with Woogard's picture. He throws the

paper in her face. Cat is taken aback by a display of

anger she has never seen in this man before.

Then he shoves an article cut from a paper in her face.

As she starts...

He hands her an envelope.

Emilio leaves first this time. Cat just stands there, her

world rocked. She opens the envelope, takes out a

photograph, looks at it.

CLOSE ON A PHOTO OF CAT WITH HER PARENTS

Dressed for her first Communion. Everyone is smiling.

She is holding a Cataleya orchid bouquet.

Her eyes well up. She can't hold it anymore. She begins

to cry.

EXT. CAFE - DAY

Danny is sitting with his friend RYAN.

He crosses his fingers.

Danny takes out his iPhone.

Shows Ryan the picture he took of Cat.

CLOSE ON THE PICTURE OF CAT

Asleep in his bed, with the morning light on her face,

half hidden by her position and her hair.

INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT

Ryan and Danny stand beside SHARI, 26, who sits in front

of her computer, attaching Danny's iPhone to a port.

Danny can't answer.

He hits the button. Cat's picture appears on the screen

with the message: BEGIN DOWNLOAD.

CLOSE ON THE PROCESS

Cat's picture gets turned into millions of pixels, which

start combining and recombining into faces that look like

her, don't look like her, looking for a match.

INT. ROSS'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Ross is staring at his Cataleya orchid, looking over his

reports, frustrated, when his computer screen lights up

the the following message: DATA MATCH 62%

And alongside the half assed pictures of Cat from the

security tapes in the police station, the picture from

Danny's iPhone starts to form. Ross picks up the phone.

Ross continues watching his screen: DATA MATCH PROBABILITY

68%.

A map comes up on his screen immediately. A grid map of

the city with a focus finder bringing the search area closer

and closer. Until the area is identified: One Police Plaza.

OVER THE INTONATIONS OF A CHOIR SINGING EASTER MASS...

INT. CATHEDRAL - DAY

Emilio, Mama and Pepe are sitting in a pew during Easter

mass. Someone comes up from behind, sits down next to

them. They turn to Cat. Who smiles, like a child. Emilio

smiles back. Mama takes Cat's hand, kisses it. They all

sit and listen to the Mass, like all the other families

around them.

EXT. CATHEDRAL - DAY

As everyone is exiting...

She kisses them and walks off.

INT. CAR - DAY

Emilio drives.

As their car pulls into the driveway of the house...

FROM SOMEONE ELSE'S POV

INT. CAR - DAY

From down the street. Watching Emilio, Mama, and Pepe

enter the house. Marco. And three thugs.

INT. FBI OFFICE - DAY

On a larger computer screen, the various pictures of Cat,

none of them conclusive. As Ross and his team look on...

He punches his keyboard. The computer screen shuffles the

pictures until they all match up, one on top of the other.

And on the screen: SIZE CONFIRMATION: MATCH 96%

He focuses in on the hands on the pictures from the security

tape and the ones from Danny's iPhone picture. The images

start moving, matching. And when they are coordinated, on

the screen: HAND CONFIRMATION: MATCH 95%

He types in nose match. Again the pictures shuffle, line

up. NOSE CONFIRMATION: MATCH 98%

AND THEN THE MESSAGE COMES UP: MATCH IDENTIFICATION: 100%

CLOSE ON CAT

In the shower. The water pelting her face.

AS THE CAMERA WATCHES HER, IT FEELS LIKE SOMEONE ELSE IS

THERE WATCHING TOO.

INT. CAT'S APARTMENT - DAY

Cat, outside the shower.

AGAIN, THE CAMERA WATCHES HER AS IF THERE IS SOMEONE ELSE

THERE. THIS BEGINS TO FEEL A LITTLE CREEPY. VERY TENSE.

INT. CAT'S APARTMENT - DAY

Cat, in a bra and panties, walks across to the kitchen,

pours a drink. Downs half of it, then refills the glass.

AND STILL, THERE IS THIS FEELING SOMEONE IS THERE, WATCHING.

THAT AT ANY MOMENT, SOMEONE IS GOING TO POUNCE.

INT. CAT'S APARTMENT - DAY

Cat sits by the living room window. Takes the last drop

of the drink. As she looks out on the night sky, she lights

a cigarette. Feeling so alone. She takes one drag on the

cigarette, stubs it out. She takes the picture of herself

and her parents, looks at it, sighs deeply. A tear forms.

Her loneliness, her sense of isolation grows. For the

first time, she seems a bit lost.

INT. DANNY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Danny sits by his window, also feeling a bit lost, and

also, so lonely. He stares at the picture of Cat on his

phone. When the phone rings.

Danny's heart goes to his throat.

INT. ROSS'S OFFICE - DAY

Ross's computer bings. Danny's name and number come up

with the message: CALL ACTIVE. Ross looks up.

INT. CAT'S APARTMENT - DAY

INT. ROSS'S OFFICE - DAY

Ross and his team are listening to the call on an intercom.

On the screen a tracer is looking for the location of the

call.

ROSS watches the search narrow...

NARROW...

UNTIL A RED BLINKING CIRCLE APPEARS ON THE MAP AROUND ONE

Ross and his team run out of their office. AND WE ARE

BACK TO...

Cat's antenna go up.

Danny gulps hard, realizing he has made a mistake.

Cat leaps out of her chair, on full alert now. She opens

her cabinet to the four screens.

Cat attaches a device to her computer. Does not respond.

Cat is not listening, she is looking at a message flashing

across the screen. THIRD PARTY ON LINE.

Cat flips the switch on her surveillance screens.

And now Cat knows everything.

On her surveillance screens, Cat sees FBI SWAT pulling up

to the building.

Cat hangs up, rushes into the bathroom, turns the shower

on full blast. Hurrying out, on her screens, she sees the

SWAT swarming into the building. Cat opens a cabinet. On

the back of the door are a dozen keys. She chooses one.

She checks the screens one more time, sees the SWAT rushing

the stairs, the elevators. She turns off her screens.

And runs out of the apartment in her t-shirt and panties.

Barefoot.

INT. STAIRCASES - DAY

The SWAT are running up the stairs.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

The SWAT led by Ross are watching the elevator numbers

climb.

INT. HALL - DAY

Cat reaches the stairs just as the elevator is reaching

her floor. She ducks down the stairs as the elevator door

opens, and Ross and his team step out, guns raised,

exercising extreme caution, keeping very quiet.

INT. STAIRCASES - DAY

Cat takes the stairs two at a time.

INT. STAIRCASES - DAY

The SWAT comes running up the stairs, two at a time.

QUICK CUTS BETWEEN CAT AND THE SWAT. SHE GOING DOWN, THEY

ARE COMING UP. AND JUST WHEN THEY ARE ONE FLOOR APART,

WHEN IT SEEMS THAT THEY ARE GOING TO COLLIDE, RUN INTO

EACH OTHER...

CAT EXITS THE STAIRS ON THE SIXTH FLOOR.

A MOMENT LATER THE SWAT COME RUNNING BY WHERE SHE EXITED.

INT. HALL - DAY

Swat 1 listens at Cat's door. Ross is at the end of the

corridor.

Ross signals for a scope. SWAT 2 takes a flex cam, and

begins to slide it under the door.

INT. SIXTH FLOOR HALL - DAY

Cat comes to a door, uses her key to open it. She enters

to...

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

...a guy eating his lunch in front of the TV.

He reaches out to grab her. Cat grabs his hand and slams

his face into his tray of food, knocking him cold.

INT. HALL - DAY

Ross watches the screen as the flex cam shows the interior

of Cat's apartment.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Cat pulls down a camouflaged hinged door in the ceiling.

On it, is a harness, with several things attached, guns,

charges, thick metal clips. She slips into the harness.

INT. HALL - DAY

Ross's team goes from apartment to apartment. Knocking.

INT. HALL - DAY

On the video cam, Ross is seeing nothing in Cat's apartment.

He points to one of the SWAT, signals for him to set charges

against the door. The man begins to do so.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Cat is setting charges in a rectangular pattern on the

rear bathtub wall.

INT. HALL - DAY

The agents at an apartment door...

As the FBI enters...

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Cat has finished setting her charges. She looks up at the

ceiling, listens.

INT. HALL - DAY

Ross's man has finished setting the charges. He looks at

Ross. The rest of the team fingers their weapons.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Cat waits, looking up.

INT. HALL - DAY

An FBI agent knocks on the door of the apartment she has

just entered.

INT. HALL - DAY

Ross give the go ahead nod. The SWAT hits his detonator.

At the same moment that his charges explode...

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Cat hits hers...

BOOM!

INT. HALL - DAY

Cat's door blows open, the SWAT flood in.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

A perfect rectangle is blown in the wall, revealing utility

pipes.

INT. CAT'S APARTMENT - DAY

Ross and his crew swarm all over the place. Find the

shower, empty.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Cat has attached the hooks from the harness to the pipes.

INT. CAT'S APARTMENT - DAY

Ross barks into his walkie talkie.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Cat lets go. And drops.

TRACK CAT AS SHE SLIDES AT A FANTASTIC SPEED DOWN THE

INT. CAT'S APARTMENT - DAY

Ross is looking at the bank of security monitors in Cat's

cabinet, sees all his men, all over the place, inside the

building, outside.

INT. SHAFT - DAY

Cat lands on the floor, next to door. She unhooks herself

from the pipes, and pushes out the door. Enters through

to the...

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Cat looks around, listens, and then begins to make her way

across the garage, using the parked cars as cover from the

security cameras.

INT. BUILDING - DAY

Ross leads his men as they scour the building.

EXT. BUILDING - DAY

INT. HALL - DAY

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Cat reaches an open space where cars just cannot shield

her. There are two security cameras covering it. Cat

draws one of her silencers and shoots the lens out of one

camera.

INT. SECURITY OFFICE - DAY

An agent is standing next to the building security guard,

when one camera goes out.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Ross pauses.

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Cat shoots the second camera. Heads across the open space,

quickly.

INT. SECURITY OFFICE - DAY

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Cat has reaches a vent, which she removes, having loosened

the screws before.

INT. GARAGE - DAY

The SWAT and Ross's team flood the garage. Vehicles

screeching in, men running in full body armor, guns ready.

CLOSE ON THE VENT GRATE

Cat is just climbing into the space behind it.

PULL BACK TO The SWAT ALL OVER THE PLACE

CLOSE ON CAT PULLING THE GRATE CLOSED

PULL BACK TO THE SWAT PASSING BY LOOKING EVERYWHERE.

INT. SUBWAY TUNNEL - DAY

Cat hurries along a tunnel, comes to a utility door, and

enters.

INT. UTILITY CHANGING ROOM - DAY

Cat enters a room full of lockers. She starts opening

them until she finds what she is looking for. A maintenance

uniform.

INT. SUBWAY TUNNEL - DAY

Cat walks along in coveralls, boots and a hard hat, passing

several crews of workers welding, hammering, doing repairs.

She disappears into the gloaming.

FADE TO BLACK

EXT. EMILIO'S STREET - EARLY MORNING

A normal day. Kids playing ball. Trashmen picking up

trash.

ANGLE ON THE REAR OF EMILIO'S HOUSE

Cat enters the house.

INT. EMILIO'S HOUSE - MORNING

Cat walks through the house like it could be a trap, a

silencer in her hand. Her senses are keening, she is that

alert. And then she finds the first body.

Mama. Dead. A bullet in her head.

Cat has all she can do to keep it together. Then she finds

Pepe, a bullet in his head. It is almost too much for her

to bear.

And then she finds Emilio, tied to a chair, tortured. To

death. This IS too much for her to bear.

Cat cuts Emilio's beaten and bloodied body loose, and gently

takes HIM in her arms. And begins to cry.

INT. FBI OFFICE - DAY

An operator answers.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Cat is on a pay phone.

INT. ROSS'S OFFICE - DAY

Ross is pinning up the pictures of Cat on his board. His

phone rings.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Cat hangs up the phone.

EXT. FBI BUILDING - EVENING

The building is emptying out. In the lobby, Ross passes a

floor cleaner and a lone security guard.

INT. MARKET - EVENING

Ross picks up a prepackaged meal.

EXT. ROSS'S APARTMENT - EVENING

Ross enters his building.

INT. ROSS'S APARTMENT - EVENING

Ross enters, turns on the lights, revealing an apartment

as austere as Cat's. Heads for the small kitchen, where

he is about to put his precooked meal in the microwave.

When he feels a gun in the back of his neck.

Ross raises his hands. Cat reaches around, removes his

gun.

Ross faces her.

She motions him into the chair behind him.

His moment of triumph is short lived. Cat reaches on the

side of the counter. Holds up six web cams, wires ripped

out.

Tosses the ripped out cams onto the table.

Ross looks under the chair. Sure enough, there are several

wires leading out of the bottom of the chair. He looks

further to the where the wires attach to a small charge.

She puts her gun down on the table.

Ross does not move.

She takes out an old picture of Don Luis, lifted from the

internet. She takes out the picture of her parents and

her as an eight year old.

She takes out pictures of dead Mama, dead Emilio, dead

Pepe.

She takes a photo album out, opens it.

Begins to flip pages.

Ross knows what is coming.

She places the photo album in his lap. Puts his food in

the microwave, starts it. Goes to exit.

She stops.

He points to the chair.

And she is gone. Ross watches the timer on the microwave.

When it beeps, he sits a moment longer. Hesitates to get

up. Little by little, he moves himself off the chair,

tentative. Afraid that any moment, BOOM! Until he makes

the final move, stands just enough to clear the seat,

waiting for the worst to happen. And when it doesn't, he

breathes a sigh of relief.

EXT. CIA OFFICE - DAY

A non descript building.

INT. RICHARD'S OFFICE - DAY

Facing a large picture window...

He puts Luis's picture on the desk.

Richard pauses. Then he begins to laugh.

Richard says nothing.

He goes to rise, when Ross's phone rings. He answers.

Richard sits back down.

Ross points to Richard's chest where a red laser beam holds

on his heart.

All of the sudden, a bullet shatters the window; destroying

a picture of Richard standing with the President hanging

on the wall just behind his head. The red dot is back on

Richard in a heartbeat.

Richard starts to come unglued.

After an interminable moment...

There is a long pause on the other end of the phone.

A moment later, the red dot disappears from Richard's chest.

Richard breathes out. Ross reaches out, shakes richard's

limp hand.

Ross exits. Richard looks at the shattered picture. The

President's head is intact. The bullet has ripped Richard's

face clean off.

CLOSE ON A BIG STEEL DOOR OPENING REVEALING An ARMORY OF

WEAPONS FROM PISTOLS TO RPG's.

PULL BACK TO

INT. PEPE'S WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Cat loads weapons and ammo into Pepe's big red truck. The

last thing she takes: a LAWS rocket launcher. The dogs

sit there, watching her.

Off the dog's puzzled faces...

SMASH!!!!!

The red truck smashes through the doors of Pepe's warehouse.

EXT. PEPE'S WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The truck heads off down the road, disappearing into the

night.

INT. TRUCK - NIGHT

Cat drives through the night, just watching the road. The

dogs sit behind her, also watching the road. She passes a

sign: NEW ORLEANS 500 MILES.

EXT. SMITH ARCHITECTURAL OFFICE - MORNING

SMITH, a courtly old architect, opens his door and enters

his building.

INT. SMITH ARCHITECTURAL OFFICE - MORNING

Smith enters to find...

Sitting, with two cups of coffee, and pastries.

CLOSE ON A SIMPLE FLOOR PLAN OF A HOUSE

PULL BACK TO

INT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

As Don Luis sips a cognac, staring out the big bay window

onto the wide street beyond the garden.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

The house sits prominent in the middle of a quiet

neighborhood.

INT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Marco points to the floor plan, explaining to the dozen

thugs gathered with their weapons...

ON DON LUIS as he sips his cognac. He sees a big red truck

approaching in the distance up the road. As he watches,

squinting, curious, the truck does an abrupt U turn. Marco

drones on in the background...

...Don Luis watches, as a woman gets out of the truck. He

cannot make out who it is, what with the fog and his

vision...

He sees the woman open the rear door of the truck, and

pull something out. He takes his glasses out of his pocket,

puts them on. Just in time to see...

CAT SHOULDERING A LAWS SHOULDER ROCKET!!!

Marco turns.

ANGLE ON CAT FIRING THE ROCKET

ANGLE ON MARCO DON LUIS AND THE THUGS

Seeing the rocket heading right for the salon. They all

leap out of the way, just as the rocket comes crashing

through the bay window. And blows the salon to smithereens.

Cat reenters the truck, drives off fast.

As the debris falls, and the dust and smoke rises, Marco

helps Don Luis up. He is a little stunned. Through the

gaping hole where the bay window was, they see the red

truck driving off.

The four run off.

As they all run out...

INT. GARAGE - DAY

The four thugs run into the garage, where there are several

cars. And a big armored van.

But just as they open the doors to the big Mercedes...

THE RED TRUCK COMES RAMMING THROUGH, TAKES OUT THE WHOLE

WALL OF THE GARAGE! DESTROYS THE MERCEDES.

Cat leaps out of the truck, and before the four startled

thugs know what has hit them, she puts three of them down

with shots to the heart.

The fourth runs out the back.

EXT. GROUNDS - DAY

The fourth thug runs for all he is worth, bleeding from

his forehead, panicked.

ANGLE ON CAT

Calmly exiting the garage, she removes a set of throwing

knives from a belt around her waist, taking a long minute

to gauge the distance. When he has almost reached the

safety of the house...

ON THE THUG RUNNING

ON CAT FLINGING THE KNIVES

TRACK WITH THE KNIVES AND THEN...

ON THE THUG

He drops like dead lead, the two knives embedded in his

back.

ANGLE ON MARCO WITH DON LUIS

Inside the house, seeing Cat through a window.

ANGLE ON CAT

Looking back at him. Pointing a finger at him. Before

she disappears in to the drifting mists.

He opens a secret door in the wall, revealing a small space.

Barely big enough for a man.

Don Luis shuts the door. Off the door slamming...

Another door opens, but this one is...

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

On the side of the mansion, and leads into the foundation.

Cat crawls in and pulls the door shut.

INT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Marco and the men are walking through the mansion, guns at

the ready, when they come to a long stretch of hallway.

Marco signals them to stop. He listens carefully. Signals

for one of the men to move down the hall.

As Marco and the other men wait, the first thug makes his

way down the hall, looking left and right, opening doors...

ANGLE ON UNDER THE FLOOR FROM THE CAMERA'S POV

As the man walks along above, the floor creaks, dust drops

down in a fine cloud. As the man progresses, and the dust

gets closer and closer...

ANGLE ON THE THUG ABOVE

Turns to Marco to signal everything is OK. Just as he

signals he is riddled from below with dozens of bullets.

The man dances like a puppet on a string, before falling

to the floor, dead. Marco takes a grenade out, flings it.

Marco and the thugs dive for cover.

BAARROOM!

The grenade blows a big hole in the floor. As soon as the

smoke and the debris stop falling...

The thugs hesitate. Marco points his gun at them.

Hesitant, the thugs approach the hole. Pointing their

weapons, they unload a barrage of bullets. Then stop.

Nothing moves. One of them peers over the side.

BANG!

A single shot pieces his eye.

The thugs and Marco run...

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

The thugs set up two big ass 50 caliber machine guns at

the two openings in the foundation.

The thugs manning the guns let loose, blasting away. Smoke

and flashes from the muzzles mingle with the fog.

INT. CLOSET - DAY

Don Luis hears the firing, which thunders through his

closet.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

The thugs fire until their ammo is spent. As the sound

dies away, silence reigns.

INT. CLOSET - DAY

Don Luis hears the silence. He speed dials on his phone.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Marco's phone rings.

He motions for one of his men to look into the dark hope.

Hesitant the man peeks around the side. Nothing happens.

INT. CLOSET - DAY

Don Luis lets out a sigh of relief.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Marco urges his man to look deeper, expose himself more,

to look in the hole. Marco watches as the man does so,

very cautiously. Still no movement. He moves full body

into the opening to peer in.

BANG! BANG! BANG!

Is blown back by three fast shots.

INT. CLOSET - DAY

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

And then he starts screaming into the hole, careful to

stand just off to the side.

Silence. And then, a whistle from above. Marco looks up

to see Cat, standing on a second floor balcony with two

pistols.

Marco starts to fire, his men raise their guns. Too late.

In the blink of an eye, with bullets flying wildly all

around her, Cat blows five of the seven thugs surrounding

Marco away. Marco and the remaining two thugs run toward

the guest house. Out of the range of her guns.

INT. CLOSET - DAY

Don Luis is panicking. Yelling into the phone.

INT. GUEST HOUSE - DAY

Marco and the two thugs run into the small house.

He points to the door they just came through.

Marco runs into the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Marco runs to the curtained windows, rips the curtains

back, hoping to escape. And finds that the windows have

metal hurricane shutters on them. With locks. Marco pulls

out a set of keys, frantically tries fitting the keys to

the locks. None of them work.

He runs for the door again. Just as he has his hand on

the knob, two shots ring out.

Nothing.

No answer. He checks his gun, realizes he is out of ammo.

He knows his time has come. He drops is gun, backs away

from the door. Backs right up to the bed, and sits down.

His phone rings.

INT. CLOSET - DAY

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Marco just stares at the door.

There is a small sound outside the door.

The door shatters as Cat kicks her way in. Marco pulls

his trigger. Click! Click! Click! Marco is frozen.

Just stares at Cat. Waiting for what is going to come.

She empties her gun into him.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Gripped by fear, Don Luis runs for all he is worth across

the fog shrouded garden until he reaches the garage. He

yanks open the door, runs inside.

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Don Luis runs around Pepe's red truck and the crumbled

Mercedes, jumps in the armored van.

INT. ARMORED VAN - DAY

Don Luis fumbles with the keys, grinds the ignition in his

desperation. The engine turns over. Don Luis slams the

transmission into gear, but bangs into the crumbled Mercedes

blocking his way. He slams the gearshift into reverse,

bashes into the wall behind him, and then jerks the gear

shift into drive, ramming the Mercedes with a little more

room. Back and forth back and forth, Don Luis rams at the

Mercedes until he has made enough room to turn the van,

bang past the Mercedes, and smash his way out of the garage.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

The van comes roaring out of the garage, tearing up the

gardens, jumping on the driveway and speeding off to the

main road.

Cat comes running from the opposite direction, two guns

blazing.

INT. ARMORED VAN - DAY

As bullets ping off the van, Don Luis regains some of his

confidence. A small smile breaks across his face as he

looks in his rear view mirror and sees Cat running and

firing, losing ground.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Cat reaches the end of the driveway, fires her last shots,

runs out of bullets. Stands watching the van head off

down the road.

INT. ARMORED VAN - DAY

Don Luis watches her run out of ammo, standing in the road

receding.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Cat stands in the road, watching the van. She takes out

Marco's cellphone.

CLOSE ON THE SCREEN

Cat scrolls the phone book. She highlights VAN. Presses

SEND.

INT. ARMORED VAN - DAY

Don Luis is at a red light, so pleased with himself.

Humming a tune. When the van phone rings. Surprised, he

looks at the call coming in. MARCO. He presses the

speaker.

Don Luis doesn't get it. And then he hears a low growling

behind him. He turns a little, sees sitting there in the

dark recesses of the van, two enormous dogs. Pepe's dogs.

His eyes register confusion, then apprehension...

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Cat hears the growl over the phone. A small smile breaks

across her face. And then se speaks into the phone one

last time. One word.

EXT. ARMORED VAN - DAY

Over the sounds of the dogs tearing Don Luis to pieces and

his horrible screams, the van shakes as if it were caught

in an earthquake.

EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY

Cat's shoulders sag, relax. Her face is peaceful as it

has never been before. She looks at Marco's phone.

Thinking.

INT. ROSS'S OFFICE - SUNSET

Danny sits opposite Ross.

Ross gets up and leaves the room. Danny is feeling really

shitty. He takes his phone out of his pocket, looks at

Cat's picture. And then it rings.

INTERCUT BETWEEN...

She says it without the slightest bit of sarcasm.

Danny looks at the orchid on Ross's desk. Sees the name

tag. Smiles.

Now Cat smiles. How did he know that?

EXT. COFFEE MACHINE - SUNSET

Ross is drawing coffee.

Ross drops the coffee, hurries back to the office.

INT. ROSS'S OFFICE - SUNSET

Cat holds on that one for a moment...then the beeping of a

phone connection cut...Danny closes his eyes. Ross bursts

into the office. Grabs the phone from his hands.

EXT. COUNTRY BUS STOP - SUNSET

Cat, in jeans, t-shirt, a baseball cap with her pony tail

sticking out the back, exits a phone booth, She boards a

waiting bus. The doors close. The bus drives off down an

endless road.

