CONFESSIONS OF A DANGEROUS MIND

MUSIC IN:   OMINOUS ORCHESTRAL

TEXT, WHITE ON BLACK:

FADE IN:

EXT. NYC STREET - NIGHT

SUBTITLE: NEW YORK CITY, FALL 1981

It's raining.    A cab speeds down a dark, bumpy side-street.

INT. CAB - CONTINUOUS

Looking in his rearview mirror, the cab driver checks out his

passenger: a sweaty young man in a gold blazer with a "P"

insignia over his breast pocket. Several paper bags on the

back seat hedge him in. The young man is immersed in the

scrawled list he clutches in his hand. A passing street

light momentarily illuminates the list and we glimpse a few

of the entries: double-coated waterproof fuse (500 feet);

.38 ammo (hollowpoint configuration); potato chips (Lays).

GONG SHOW

An excerpt from The Gong Show (reenacted). The video image

fills the screen. We watch a fat man recite Hamlet,

punctuating his soliloquy with loud belching noises. The

audience is booing. Eventually the man gets gonged. Chuck

Barris, age 50, hat pulled over his eyes, dances out from the

wings to comfort the agitated performer.

The studio audience laughs.

INT. TAXI CAB - NIGHT

The cab sloshes to a stop in front of a liquor store. The

young man gets out, jogs through the rain toward the

fluorescent storefront. The cab driver waits, listens to

staticky reports in a foreign language on his radio. The

meter is running. The back seat is piled high with bags.

GONG SHOW

Chuck Barris spastically dances on the screen along with Gene

Gene the Dancing Machine. Barris turns to the camera, points

at it.

INT. TAXI CAB - NIGHT

The back of the cab is filled with even more bags and boxes.

The cab stops. The young man gets out and confers with a

shady looking guy on the corner. The young man pulls out a

big wad of cash. Money and a small package change hands.

The meter in the cab is at thirty-five dollars and change.

THE GONG SHOW

Chuck Barris is being sniffed in the crotch by a large dog.

The audience howls with glee. Suddenly the video image

explodes. Slow motion sparks and shards of glass shoot

toward the camera. We pull back to reveal we're in a

darkened, messy hotel room. We pan across the walls, past

taped-up, yellowed newspaper clippings with headlines like

"Gong Show a New Low in Television", "The Dumbing of

America", and "Chuck Barris is the Decline of Western

Civilization." We come to rest on a naked middle-aged man

crouching in the shadows in the corner, holding a gun. This

is Chuck Barris. The television continues to sputter, spark,

and smoke. There is a knock at the door.

Naked Barris, still holding the gun, seems panicked. He

hesitates, trying to determine his options. Should he answer

the door? Should he climb out onto the window ledge?

Finally, he creeps to the door and peeks out the peephole for

a long moment. He unlocks the door, opens it. The sweaty,

young man, a bellhop, stands there with his many bags.

CONTINUED:

He tries to appear casual as takes in the sight: a naked

Chuck Barris holding a gun, an exploded, smoking tv set in

the background.

Barris trails off, gives a quick glance both ways down the

hall, then motions for the bellhop to enter. The bellhop

places the bags on a table, fishes in his pocket and pulls

out some bills.

Barris trails off.

Suddenly Barris becomes agitated.

Barris trails off. There is a pause.   The bellhop attempts

to make conversation.

The naked Barris approaches the bellhop, drapes his arm over

the young man's shoulder and walks with him.

CONTINUED: (2)

There is a silence.

Suddenly Barris punches himself in the head, flops down on

the unmade bed. The bellhop glances at Barris's bare ass,

looks away.

Barris lets this sink in.

CONTINUED: (3)

Barris finds his pants draped over a chair, pulls out his

wallet, holds some more money out to the bellhop.

The bellhop sighs, takes the money.

The bellhop exists.

Barris locks the door, dumps the contents of the bags onto

the floor, fishes through the mess for a cigar, puts the

cigar in his mouth, studies himself in a full length mirror.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

This feels real, verite. The actual Chuck Barris, smoking a

cigar, is being interviewed. He stands outside his villa in

St. Tropez, older than the middle-aged Barris depicted in the

hotel room, and talks to someone off-camera.

Barris walks through a small vegetable garden as he talks,

occasionally adjusting a stake or pulling out a weed.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Barris, now in a hotel terrycloth bathrobe and a porkpie hat,

sits at a desk and types manically.

EXT. PHILADELPHIA STREET - DAY

It's sepia. Three year old Chuck, dressed somewhat girlishly

and sporting a blonde pageboy haircut is being posed on a

pony by a photographer. His mother stands by anxiously as

the boy totters on the animal.

INT. BUTCHER SHOP - DAY

A smiling butcher hands a slice of bologna to young Barris,

who puts it in his mouth.

EXT. CEMENT YARD - DAY

A baby doll is set afire.   Young Barris dances around it.

INT. CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - DAY

Young Barris is being dressed by his mother. We're close on

the velvet material being slipped over his head.

EXT. SCHOOL YARD - DAY

Young Barris rolling on the ground in battle with another

boy, as a crowd of children look on.

INT. CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - MORNING

Young Barris watches dust motes lit by the early morning

sunlight pouring through his bedroom window.

CONTINUED:

INT. CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - NIGHT

Young Barris sits on the floor and watches the shadow of a

man walking upstairs. The young boy is clearly terrified.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - MORNING

Toddler Barris watches his mother change clothes. He studies

her pendulous breasts. She looks down, smiles warmly.

His mother lifts the little boy to her breasts and presses

his face against them. He is in heaven.

INT. CHILDHOOD HOME - DAY

Four year old Chuck sits at the dining room table with

several other four year olds. They all wear party hats.

Barris's father, a milquetoast middle-aged man enters in

birthday hat, carrying a cake decorated with four lit

candles. He leads the children in "Happy Birthday Dear

Chuck" as young Chuck beams.

CONTINUED:

Chuck glances at the kitchen doorway. His mother stands

there, staring at him. She dressed in black mourning

clothes, complete with veil.

INT. NURSERY - DAY

Young Chuck peeks in as his mother sits in a rocking chair

and holds Barris's infant sister. She fusses with the bows

and frills on the baby's outfit. The light in the room is

golden and warm.

We move in on the little boy's devastated face, then follow

him as he turns and walks down the hall into darkness.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

A sixteen year old Barris lies on his back on a couch lazily

tossing a football in the air. Tuvia, a thirteen year old

girl, sits on the floor playing with a puppy. In the

background, throughout the scene, we hear the inept playing

of scales on a bass violin.

CONTINUED:

Barris watches Tuvia playing with the dog. She gets on all

fours and yelps, imitating the dog. This excites the dog,

who bounces around her. Barris studies Tuvia's exposed white

underwear for a while. This excites Barris. Finally he

pulls an afghan off the back of the couch and drapes it over

his pants. We hear him unzip his fly.

Tuvia sees Barris fiddling with something under the afghan.

She gets quiet.

Tuvia snorts, goes back to playing with the dog.

Tuvia looks at the afghan.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Middle-aged Chuck Barris turns from the typewriter and stares

out the window at the dark night sky.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Tuvia's face jerks up into frame.   She spits.

The dog sticks his head under the afghan.   Barris shoos him

away.

Tuvia gets up.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Middle-aged Barris types as the camera glides over some of

the acquired detritus in his room: skin magazines, a gun and

silencer, liquor, a copy of Beyond Good and Evil, a disguise

kit, a kid's sprouted lima bean science fair project.

MONTAGE

Sequence of young Barris unsuccessfully attempting to pick up

girls at bars, unsuccessfully attempting to cop a feel on a

date in a movie theater, standing on a front porch

unsuccessfully attempting to kiss a girl good night, standing

outside of a movie theater in the rain, holding an umbrella

over his head and checking his watch.

INT BAR - NIGHT

Barris is fighting another drunken guy.   He's getting

pummeled.

The two men get tossed from the bar.

EXT. BAR - CONTINUOUS

The other guy gets up, brushes himself off, orients himself,

and after a moment starts beating Barris again.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

SUBTITLE: New Jersey Turnpike, 1955

A bus drives along. We see from the sign above the

windshield that it is bound for New York.

INT. BUS - CONTINUOUS

Young Barris, age 24, in traveling clothes and red hunting

cap, stares out the window.

EXT. ROCKEFELLER CENTER (1955) - DAY

Young Barris, suitcase in hand, looks up at the impressive

building. People hurry by.

Barris enters the building with resolve.

INT. NBC STUDIOS (1955) - DAY

Young Barris, age 24, dressed in an NBC blazer is leading a

group of sheep-like tourists down a hall.

The tourists "ooooh." Another tour group comes around a

corner. This one is led by Georgia, a perky, blonde southern

girl. The two groups squeeze past each other. Chuck tries

to make eye contact with Georgia. He smiles at her, but she

ignores him.

INT. NBC COMMISSARY - DAY

Barris is at the cash register paying for his food. He looks

around for a place to sit. He spots Georgia, sitting with a

female friend, and he sits at a table behind, so as to listen

unobserved to their conversation.

Barris registers this information.

INT. NBC PERSONNEL OFFICE - DAY

Barris stands at the counter talking to a female clerk.

The clerk hands him an application without looking up.

CONTINUED:

INT. NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY

Barris sitting with a book and copying the names of three of

the board of directors of RCA onto his application under the

heading of "Personal References."

INT. BARRIS'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Young Barris is having sex with Georgia. They finish.

Barris rolls off her and onto his back. Georgia sighs.

She climbs on top of Barris and begins kissing him all over.

INT. BARRIS'S APARTMENT - AFTERNOON

Georgia is looking radiant as she reads a movie magazine.

Barris enters. She runs over to kiss him.

She pulls away, studies him for a moment, lets it sink in.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Barris sits drunkenly at the bar.   He talks to a drunken guy

next to him.

CONTINUED:

The guy punches Barris. A fight ensues.

INT. BARRIS'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Barris is drunk on the couch watching a tv game show, his

face swollen from the fight. Georgia enters.

Barris barely acknowledges this, continues to watch tv.

INT. BARRIS'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Barris and Georgia are in bed. Georgia is asleep.        Barris

opens his eyes, quietly climbs out of bed.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Another verite-looking interview. A middle-aged blonde

woman, the actual Georgia, is talking to someone off-camera.

Sitting next to her is a Jewish-looking middle-aged man.

CONTINUED:

INT. COMMUTER TRAIN    - DAY

We're close on a copy of the NY Herald Tribune. The headline

reads Clark Testifies Before "Payola" Committee. We pull

back to see young Barris, in a suit, reading the paper in a

passenger car of a moving train.

INT. TV STUDIO - DAY

American Bandstand is taping. The studio is filled with

dancing teens. Barris sits off to one side behind an

imposing desk in the semi-darkness, suspiciously watching

Dick Clark's every move, and taking copious notes. Clark

glances over nervously.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

The actual Dick Clark is being interviewed.

EXT. PALISADES PARK - NIGHT

Barris walks through the crowds. A dark look in his eyes as

he follows some giggling teenage girls in poodle skirts.

CONTINUED:

INT. BARRIS'S TENEMENT APARTMENT - NIGHT

Young Barris lies in bed masturbating.

The song "Palisades Park" begins.

INT. TV STUDIO

A sign above the stage reads The Dick Clark Saturday Night

Beechnut Show. Freddie Cannon is on stage singing "Palisades

Park" as a crowd of 1962 teenagers dance on the studio floor.

Young Barris watches happily from behind the cameras. He

spots, Debbie, a pretty, bland young woman with headphones

and a clipboard. He sidles over to her.

CONTINUED:

Barris pulls out music magazine clipping as proof.

INT. FANCY RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Barris and Debbie are having dinner.

CONTINUED:

There is a long, awkward silence.    They both saw away at

their steaks.

INT. DEBBIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Barris and Debbie are having sex, sort of mechanical.

They're plowing through, kind of like sawing through their

steaks. When it's over, they both just lie there.

INT. DEBBIE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Young Barris, in his underwear, sits alone in the semi-

darkness and stares out the window. The front door unlocks

and a woman enters, backlit from the hallway. She turns on

the light. This is Penny Pacino, eighteen, a beatnik in a

black leotard and skirt and black mascara. She has red hair.

She sees Barris on the couch.

Penny walks past him, drops her keys and bag on the counter,

and enters the kitchenette. Barris watches her ass.

Penny returns with two beers, hands one to Barris.      She sits

in a chair across from him. They both drink.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED: (2)

Penny shakes his hand and heads off.

Penny exits into her bedroom.   Barris drinks his beer.

INT. BARRIS'S TENEMENT APARTMENT - DAY

Barris and Penny are having sex on the kitchen floor.      It's

quite passionate.

INT. TENEMENT APARTMENT - LATER

Penny is taking a bath in the tub in the kitchen while Barris

broodingly cooks dinner at the stove.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED: (2)

INT. LEONARD GOLDBERG'S OFFICE - DAY

Leonard Goldberg, ABC executive, sits behind his desk as

Barris, holding a cardboard model of a game show set,

excitedly paces the room giving a pitch.

EXT. ABC BUILDING - DAY

Penny leans on a signpost smoking a cigarette. Barris

emerges from the building with his cardboard set. He looks

grave. He approaches Penny.

Penny screams, hugs Barris.

The two dance around on the street.

Penny kisses Barris.

CONTINUED:

Barris walks off.       We stay on Penny smoking her cigarette.

MUSIC IN: DATING GAME THEME

THE DATING GAME PILOT BEING MADE, QUICK SHOTS OF:

BARRIS TENSELY DIRECTING ACTIVITY ON THE SET.

GIGGLY BACHELORETTE ASKING QUESTION.

GAWKY BACHELORS MUGGING.

TOOTHY HOST GUFFAWING.

MUSIC OUT SUDDENLY.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

INT. CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - DAY

Barris, 32, lies on his bed on his back and tosses the

football in the air. A very very very old dog lies on the

floor. Phoebe, Barris's 26 year old sister enters.

CONTINUED:

Barris looks out the window at his emaciated mother sitting

in the yard in an old wicker-backed wheelchair and staring

off into space.

Barris watches his mother for a long moment.

EXT. FRONT PORCH - DAY

Barris knocks on the door. There is some movement inside and

a woman answers the door. This is older Tuvia, 20's,

attractive but a little hard-edged now. She balances a baby

on her hip

Barris taken by the changes in Tuvia. The baby and the full,

milk-producing breasts get him excited.

She closes the door.    He knocks again.   She opens the door.

Tuvia closes the door. Barris stands there for a moment,

considers knocking again, then turns and leaves.

EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK - NIGHT

We move along a park bench, past several homeless people, one

holding an old doll, others holding other sad items. We come

to Barris. He's wrapped in a horse blanket and holding the

miniature cardboard Dating Game set. An open notebook sits

on his lap. The pages are blank, except for one entry: The

Something Else Game. Barris holds a pen poised to write, but

doesn't.

INT. BAR - DAY

Barris is drunk and in a fight. He is losing, flailing,

swinging wildly. Jim Byrd, a middle-aged, business man-

looking guy, in tinted glasses and sideburns, watches from

the bar. Eventually Barris and the other brawler get thrown

out of the bar. Byrd takes a sip of his drink.

EXT. BAR - DAY

Barris sits on the curb, nursing his wounds.    Byrd exits the

bar and casually approaches.

Barris gets up and starts to walk away.

Barris stops.

Barris just stands there.

Barris turns.

INT. DINER - DAY

Barris and Jim Byrd sit in a booth.   Barris is wolfing a

hamburger. Byrd sips coffee.

CONTINUED:

Chuck stops chewing.

Long pause.

EXT. ABANDONED ARMY BASE - DAY

The place is ramshackle and overgrown.   It looks deserted.    A

barbed-wire fence surrounds it.

INT. BASE REC ROOM - DAY

A severe-looking instructor is teaching a class to an

assembled group of scary-looking men: losers, psychos,

mercenaries, Latin American thugs, and Chuck Barris.

CONTINUED:

The students take notes.

EXT. BARRACKS - NIGHT

It's dark. Byrd sits on a step, smoking a cigarette.     Barris

approaches.

CONTINUED:

Barris lifts his hands, tries to remember.

Byrd rises, stubs out his cigarette in his hand.

Barris sits there staring into the blackness.

INT. CLASSROOM - DAY

Another big, frightening instructor stands before the class.

Behind him is a full-sized diagram of a man which illustrates

all major arteries and organs. He is demonstrating the

proper way to grip a knife, then using the knife, he points

to various sites on the body.

Angle on Chuck Barris. He has copied the diagram of the man

in his notebook and is writing "Carotoid artery carries blood

to brain. Death in seconds." He then writes: "Game show

idea: Slice of Life. Interesting!!"

EXT. FIELD - DAY

Several canvas dummies are propped up in the field. Barris

and other students slash at the dummies with big knives.

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY

Barris and other students are assembling rifles.

EXT. MUDDY FIELD - NIGHT

Barris and other students crawl on their bellies through mud.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

The severe instructor, in a lab coat, is mixing chemicals.

CONTINUED:

Instructor #1 holds up a beaker.

The students nervously pour nitric acid into beakers.

INT. BUNKER - DAY

The severe instructor is demonstrating how to use an army

field telephone to torture a man. A canvas dummy is tied to

a chair as the instructor attaches wires from the telephone

to the dummy's genitals and to his mouth. The students watch

closely, take notes.

EXT. BARRACKS - DAY

The students with suitcases and in traveling clothes are

hugging and saying good-bye. The end of summer camp. A

tearful Barris heads toward one of the waiting buses. Byrd

pulls him aside, discusses something with him.

INT. PLANE - DAY

Byrd and Barris, now dressed in a suit similar to Byrd's, sit

in first class. Byrd stirs his scotch and water with his

finger as he stares at nothing out the window.

EXT. AIRSTRIP, MEXICO CITY    - DAY

SUBTITLE: MEXICO CITY, 1965

A commercial airliner comes in for a landing.

INT. CAFE - DAY

Barris, Byrd, and two sleazy, sweaty men, Benitez and

Brazioni, sit in a booth in the back of the dark cafe.

Benitez opens up his brief case and pulls out a pile of

grainy photos of a man leaving a residence and a street map.

He lays them on the table.

CONTINUED:

Brazioni opens a case to reveal three Walther P-38 pistols.

CONTINUED: (2)

INT. HOTEL BAR - NIGHT

Brazioni and Benitez are at a table, drunk, sweaty and loud,

flirting with some women. Byrd sits at the bar, sipping a

scotch. Barris enters, spots Byrd, sits down next to him.

Byrd grabs Barris and pulls him over to a dark corner of the

room. No one looks up. He pushes Barris against the wall.

CONTINUED:

INT. MEXICAN HOTEL ROOM   -   NIGHT

It's hot. There are two twin beds in the room. Byrd sleeps

soundly in one. Barris lies in the other, eyes wide open.

EXT. MEXICO CITY STREET - DAY

Renda is buying a newspaper at the kiosk. He completes the

transaction and takes a few steps with his paper. Barris

blocks his way, holding a phrase book and shaking.

Renda stops.

Renda tries to get away from this pesky tourist.   Barris

follows him, calling after him.

Renda picks up his pace, as does Barris.   Benitez approaches.

Renda appears relieved, until he feels the gun in his back.

INT. CAR - DAY

Renda's in the back between Barris and Benitez. Brazioni

drives. Renda seems pale and nervous, as does Barris in his

gaudy tourist wear and sunglasses. The car drives slowly

through the crowded Mexico City streets. They arrive at a

jammed intersection and are suddenly confronted with a big

parade. It's Day of the Dead; the streets are filled with

dancing skeletons. It's wild and frightening. Brazioni

glances at Renda in the reaview mirror.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

The car stops in a deserted field. Barris gets out first.

His shirt is soaked through with sweat. Suddenly there's a

commotion inside the car. Renda has gotten hold of a gun.

He shoots Brazioni and Benitez. Barris panics and dives

behind the car. Renda steps cautiously outside of the car,

looking for Barris. Barris grabs Renda's foot. Renda falls,

the gun flies from his hand. Barris kicks the gun under the

car, his own gun drawn. He points the gun at Renda, who is

on his stomach. Barris doesn't shoot. He's scared, shaking

wildly. Renda looks up at Barris, trying to figure him out.

He slowly rises to his feet, turns to Barris with a pleading

look in his eyes.

Barris sucks in a deep gulp of air. His hand shakes.   He

pulls out Spansh-English dictionary.

Barris flips through the dictionary. A church bell chimes,

startling Barris. His gun goes off accidentally and the

bullet hits Renda in the face, tearing most of it away.

Renda falls, but is still alive. He screams out of where his

mouth was. A wedding party emerges from the distant church.

CONTINUED:

Barris tries to stop Renda from screaming by covering the

hole in Renda's face. Barris throws up, some of it landing

on Renda's pants. He wipes his own mouth with his bloody

hand and looks at the still screaming Renda. The churchgoers

are starting to squint in Barris's direction. Barris shoots

Renda again. And again and again and again and again. More

blood spatters Barris's clothing and face. The church bell

continues to chime.

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Barris and Byrd sit side-by-side in first class.    This time

Barris has the window seat and stares out.

Barris doesn't say anything.

INT. APARTMENT - EVENING

Barris enters carrying an overnight bag and some mail. He

flips on the hall light and stares at himself in a mirror.

Barris notices a fleck on the side of his nose.    It's dried

blood. He distractedly rubs at it.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

Renda's contorted face in close-up as he is shot.   Blood

spurting. Echoey church bells chime.

INT. APARTMENT - EVENING

Barris puts down his bag, pulls the Spanish-English

dictionary from his pocket, and tries to translate what Renda

said. It takes him a while but he does.

Barris drops to the floor and throws up into a trash can.

Out of the corner of his eye, he catches a movement in the

living room. He lurches backwards, knocks over the can.

Vomit spills onto the carpet.

In the dim light from the hallway, Barris spots Penny lying

on the couch. She is dressed as a hippy. A backpack and a

duffel lie on the floor next to her.

CONTINUED:

Penny stands in the dimness to show off her outfit.

Penny shrieks excitedly as she runs to the record player.

She turns it on, plugs in a strobe light. "Sunshine Superman"

starts up. Penny sings and dances along, directing the

lyrics at Barris. Barris looks around at his strobing

apartment. He sees Penny's mess: pot paraphenalia, anti-war

posters, a gold dove painted on the wall with a phone number

underneath.

Pause.   Barris paces.   Penny sings and dances in background.

CONTINUED: (2)

Dial tone. Barris sits there, phone in hand, then throws up

again into the trash can. Penny stops dancing, watches.

INT. DATING GAME SET - DAY

An episode of the show is being taped.   Barris paces

nervously behind the camera.

The studio audience "awwws."

The bachelorette makes a mock-horrified expression as the

studio audience erupts in laughter. Barris buries his face

in his hands.

INT. DATING GAME SET - DAY

A brunette bachelorette asks a question.

The audience goes wild.   Barris pulls at his hair.

INT. DATING GAME SET - DAY

A black bachelorette asks a question.

The audience screams with delight.

INT. BOARD ROOM - DAY

Leonard Goldberg, a bunch of network executives, and Barris

sit around a conference table and watch a tv. On it is The

Dating Game. A black bachelor is responding to the trombone

question.   He simulates the receiving of a blow job, moaning

and writhing in his seat as the studio audience howls.

Barris has his head in his hands. Goldberg signals an

assistant, who switches off the television. The executives

look quite grim.

CONTINUED:

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Barris is drunk and brooding. He picks a fight with a big

man who has unintentionally knocked into him at the bar.

Barris is brutal and effective, utilizing the techniques he

learned from one of the scary instructors at training camp.

This gives him an idea.

INT. DATING GAME SET - DAY

The contestants are onstage.   Barris appears, warm and

charming.

The severe training camp instructor joins Barris onstage.

There are none. The contestants are paralyzed with fear.

Jenks is red-faced, trembling.

CONTINUED:

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

The actual Barris being interviewed.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE, BARRIS PRODUCTIONS - DAY

SUBTITLE: BARRIS PRODUCTIONS, LOS ANGELES, 1967

This is the sixties and the office is crazily appointed.

Street signs, funny posters, faux Tiffany lamps, mobiles,

lava lamps, an inflatable sex doll, etc. Barris, 36, is

behind his desk, feet up and on the phone. He wears a t-

shirt and jeans and loafers. This is a new Barris, confident

and successful and hip and relaxed and slovenly. Outside in

the bullpen area we hear the hustle and bustle, laughing and

screaming of a busy but casual office.

Barris hangs up the phone. His jovial facade disappears.   He

opens up his ice bucket. It's empty.

Loretta, Barris's pretty young secretary, enters with a new

bucket of ice. She is braless and shoeless.

CONTINUED:

Loretta drops the bucket of ice on his desk. Barris grabs

her arm, pulls her toward him, kisses her on the back of the

neck.

Loretta acts annoyed, but it's playful.

Loretta sighs and drops into a bean bag chair. Barris puts

some ice in a glass and pours himself a scotch.

Barris pours a drink for Loretta. She gets up, takes it off

the desk and falls back down into the bean bag.

CONTINUED: (2)

Loretta smiles at him, downs her drink, gets up and pads out

of the office. Barris watches her ass.

She is out the door.   Barris picks up his guitar and noodles

on it.

INT. DATING GAME SET - LATER

Barris paces on the darkened set. He is trying to think. A

shadowy figure appears at the top of the bleachers and creeps

down the aisle. Barris is deep in thought and doesn't hear.

The man appears behind Barris and locks his arm around

Barris's neck. Barris is startled, choking and flailing

trying to remove the arm. He can't. Finally the man

releases Barris and tweaks his crotch. Barris turns wildly

around. It is Jim Byrd.

CONTINUED:

Barris swings at Byrd.   Byrd easily blocks the punch.

INT. MARTONI'S - DAY

Jim is downing his bourbon and signals the waitress for

another. Barris, still pissed, sips a martini.

Byrd shrugs, unconvinced.    He sips his drink.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED: (2)

Barris stares at Byrd.

INT. BOOTH (DATING GAME SHOW) - DAY

The director calls the shots. Barris stands in the back

watching the show in progress. On the stage is a pretty

blonde bachelorette in a short black dress and three

bachelors. Bachelors two and three are attractive and

stylishly dressed and groomed. Bachelor one is a fat, not-

too-bright looking guy in a yellow-ochre leisure suit. His

slow, unfocused delivery contrasts with the fast, sharp

chatter in the booth.

Everyone in the booth laughs.

CONTINUED:

Guys in booth laugh, except Barris.

EXT. PICCADILLY CIRCUS - DAY

SUBTITLE:    LONDON, 1967

It's all mod and colorful. Chuck Barris shuffles along,

taking in the sights with the Dating Game couple. The blonde

bachelorette did indeed pick the fat guy. But it's clear she

thinks she made a mistake and pays him no attention

whatsoever, walking about twenty feet in front of him and

Barris. Barris seems bored.

INT. PUB - DAY

Barris enters the pub alone. He's dressed in a blonde wig

and moustache and glasses. It's crowded and he searches the

room for someone. He spots a pretty young woman by herself

at a table. She wears white go-go boots.

CONTINUED:

Barris sits across from the woman.

Barris gets up, glances around, spots another pretty young

woman in white go-go boots, sitting by herself. He

approaches her.

Barris sits.

She hands him a manila envelope, and stands to leave.

CONTINUED: (2)

She smiles and leaves. Barris watches after her, then opens

the envelope and pulls out a black and white photo of a man.

EXT. WESTMINISTER ABBEY - DAY

It's raining. A bored Barris, dressed normally, waits with

the fat bachelor under an umbrella near the entrance. The

fat bachelor checks his watch.

EXT. CHURCH COURTYARD - NIGHT

Barris, in wig and moustache, stands in the middle of the

empty, dark courtyard.

Barris approaches.

Barris reaches into his jacket pocket and pulls out an

envelope. The Englishman takes it, opens it, pulls out a wad

of cash and counts.

CONTINUED:

The Englishman finishes counting the money, pockets it, and

hands Barris a box of Polaroid film.

Barris pulls out his automatic with attached silencer and

jams it into the Englishman's mouth. The silencer breaks the

man's front teeth. The man makes a muffled grunt.

The Englishman's eyes are wide with terror. Barris pulls the

trigger three times. The back of the Englishman's head

explodes. Blood and hair and brain are spattered against the

church wall. The Englishman slumps to the ground. Barris

reaches into the man's jacket, pulls out the envelope of

money, pockets it, and makes his way toward the churchyard

gate. There stands the fat bachelor, watching, confused.

After the initial shock, Barris smiles warmly.

The fat bachelor nods.

The fat bachelor enters the courtyard.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

INT. LONDON HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Barris enters the room, shaky and scared.

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Barris rips open the Polaroid box, pulls out the foil paper

that protects the film, rips that open and pulls out a small

white plastic vial. Barris greases the vial with Vaseline

and sticks it up his ass.

CONTINUED:

He looks at himself in the mirror, naked and pathetic. There

is a knock at the door. He stiffens, grabs his gun and pads

out of the bathroom.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Barris peeks out the peephole.   We see a fish-eye view of

Patricia Watson.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Barris and Patricia sit sipping champagne.   Both are drunk.

Barris is thrilled and kisses her. It begins to turn hot and

heavy. Suddenly Barris pulls away.

CONTINUED:

EXT. KENNEDY AIRPORT - DAY

A plane lands.

INT. KENNEDY AIRPORT TERMINAL, CUSTOMS - DAY

Barris waits sweatily in line with a small a carry-on

suitcase. When the line moves, he walks as if perhaps he has

something up his ass. A customs agent walks past the line

with a dog. The dog sniffs Barris's ass in passing.

EXT. AIRPORT TERMINAL - DAY

Barris steps out of the terminal. A black limo pulls up.

The back door opens and Barris gets in.

INT. LIMO - CONTINUOUS

Seated in the back are Jim Byrd and Simon Oliver, 50. Oliver

is pure ivy league with a pipe. When he speaks it is with an

affected British accent. Byrd is pissy.

CONTINUED:

Oliver tamps his pipe.   Byrd stares down at his thumbs.

Barris looks at Byrd.    Byrd almost imperceptibly shakes his

head "no."

INT. BARRIS PRODUCTIONS - DAY

Barris, now in t-shirt and jeans, shuffles through the busy

bullpen area. Employees wave, say "hi", give Barris the

peace sign. He returns the gestures, but halfheartedly. He

seems depressed. Loretta sidles up beside him.

CONTINUED:

Barris kisses Loretta.

Barris joins them chanting "Hitman" and dances around the

office.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

EXT. MUSTANG CONVERTIBLE - DAY

Barris speeds through the curvy streets of the Hollywood

Hills. Penny Pacino, dressed as a hippy, sits in the front

passenger seat.

SUBTITLE: HOLLYWOOD HILLS, 1969

CONTINUED:

The car screeches to a halt in front of a fancy house with a

"For Sale, Open House" sign out front.

INT. FANCY HOUSE - A FEW MINUTES LATER

The house is empty. Barris and Penny are greeted at the door

by a real estate agent.

Penny happily kisses Barris.

INT. EMPTY LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Barris and Penny are having sex on the floor.

CONTINUED:

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Barris, 50, types away. He is sweaty and naked except for a

towel draped over his head.

INT. CHILDHOOD KITCHEN - NIGHT

Barris, five, sits at the dinner table with his parents. His

father, dressed in a dental smock, stares down at his plate

as he eats. His mother absently chews and stares vacantly

into space.

The father shrugs.

INT. DATING GAME SET - DAY

The set, which holds four couples, divides in the middle to

reveal a new refrigerator.

One of the couples is cheering and screaming hysterically,

happy and in love and kissing. The other couples look

disappointed and angry at their spouses.

We pull back to reveal we're watching this on a tv in:

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - MORNING

The office is filled to capacity with with hippy-like

employees watching The Newlywed Game. Many sit on the floor,

jammed up against each other. A few women are nursing

infants. Someone passes a joint. Barris sits behind his

desk, with a "Make Love Not War" helmet on his head, his feet

up, and a guitar in his lap.

Everyone agrees.   Someone switches off the tv.

Everyone cheers.

CONTINUED:

Everyone cheers.

Rick heads up to Barris's desk. Everyone laughs. A few

employees have joined Barris at his desk with instruments.

They break into a raucous banjo version of "Out of Limits."

Rick dances. Everyone's laughing and clapping.

MONTAGE

As "Out of Limits" continues, now the actual version, we see

montage of Barris shooting, stabbing, and garroting various

foreign-looking people in strange, murky locations intercut

with Barris having sex with Patricia Watson in different

bedrooms and motel rooms, Barris dancing with Patricia in

various exotic locales, and Barris on the set for his many

game shows, happily directing the bustling activity.

INT. RANCH-STYLE LIVING ROOM - DAY

The actual Jim Lange, host of The Dating Game.

INT. BARRIS'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The previously bare room is now filled with lovely and

expensive furnishings. But Barris and Penny are again on the

floor, now playing Scrabble by candlelight. Penny lays down

some tiles: I-N-T-E-R-P-E-T

Penny retrieves her letters and studies the board. Barris

empties the wine into Penny's glass. There wasn't much left.

EXT. LIQUOR STORE - NIGHT

Barris pulls up in a Jaguar XKE convertible. A pretty,

innocent-looking young woman, Monica, is emerging with a big

laundry bag from the laundromat next to the liquor store.

She glances, momentarily, at the Jaguar and at Barris.

INT. BARRIS'S LIVING ROOM - A BIT LATER

Barris enters with a bottle of wine.   Penny is in the same

position on the floor.

Penny picks up her bag and exits in a huff.

INT. MONICA'S LIVING ROOM - LATER

It's a young woman's apartment, small and girly.    The

doorbell rings.

CONTINUED:

Monica, clearly not out of her teens, enters the room and

answers the door. Barris stands there with the bottle of

wine.

Barris enters, looks around. There's another teenage girl in

pajamas in the kitchenette, mixing tuna salad.

Barris sits on the couch. Monica sits next to him. Mindy is

in the background, futzing around in the kitchen area.

INT. MONICA'S LIVING ROOM - A BIT LATER

Barris, Monica, and Mindy sit on the couch watching a

religious show on television.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

INT. BARRIS PRODUCTIONS - DAY

The room is abuzz with activity. Lots of people on the phone

talking. A potential Newlywed Game couple being interviewed.

Monica sits in the waiting area, eavesdrops on the interview

with the Newlywed Couple.

The couple kisses.

Monica enters the office.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Monica enters.   Barris wears a deerstalker cap.

Monica leans down and kisses Barris.

Barris's eye twitches.

CONTINUED:

Monica looks at him incredulously, flings an ashtray at him,

misses. She sits at the desk, looks glumly out the window.

Barris sighs.    He touches Monica's hand.

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Barris and Monica sit in first class. Barris stares out the

window. Monica stares straight ahead.

EXT. MEXICAN ALLEY - DAY

Barris leads a crying Monica down the garbage-strewn alley.

They find a doorway. Barris opens it.

CONTINUED:

Barris supports her and leads her into the office.

EXT. SCULPTURE GARDEN, UCLA - DAY

Barris and Penny walk sadly through the garden.

A SERIES OF SHOTS IN VARIOUS LOCALES OF MIDDLE-AGED WOMEN

WITH PAIN-ETCHED FACES, ADDRESSING THE CAMERA.

CONTINUED:

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

We hold on a silent Barris.

EXT. SCULPTURE GARDEN - DAY

Barris and Penny walk in silence.

CONTINUED:

Barris turns violently toward Penny.

INT. BARRIS'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Barris and Penny are having sex. It is gentle and quiet.

Penny is crying, trying to conceal it. Barris notices.

Barris studies Penny's face in the dim light.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

The actual Barris puffs on his cigar.

INT. SEEDY HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Barris sits naked on the bed, swigging from a bottle of

vodka, as a prostitute in a black dress and veil sings "Happy

Birthday" to him. When she's done, she lifts the veil, looks

confused.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - DAY

Barris sits staring out the window. His mood is somber. On

the table beside him are many birthday cards. The anarchic

and youthful decor of the office seems to mock Barris now.

Loretta enters.

CONTINUED:

No response.

Flexner enters.    He's a suit.

We move into Barris's eyes.

INT. FAMILY GAME SET

The show is in progress. Suddenly shots are fired from

offstage. The host and contestants are slaughtered. It's

bloody and violent.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - DAY

We're on Barris's eyes.

INT. HOW'S YOUR MOTHER-IN-LAW SET

A mother-in-law is being garotted with piano wire.   Her neck

is sliced. Blood spurts.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - DAY

INT. DREAM GIRL SET

Dream Girls lie bloody and flailing all over the set.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - DAY

INT. GAME GAME SET

The contestants on the set are all bloody and dead. An

applause light flashes on and off, but the audience members

are also dead.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - DAY

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Barris drinks alone.   He's sullen and sauced.

CONTINUED:

The large man stands to face Barris. He is very large.

Barris stands. The man swings at Barris. Barris easily

deflects the punch, grabs the man's forearm and breaks it

with a sickening crack. The man screams. Barris gets him in

a chokehold from behind. The man whimpers and gags.

The large man hurries from the bar. Everyone in the bar,

including the large man's date, watches Barris.

INT. BARRIS'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Barris and the woman from the bar are having sex on the

couch. Penny enters.

Penny sees Barris and the woman.

CONTINUED:

Penny throws the house key at Barris. It hits him in the

forehead. Then she turns and storms from the house. Barris

looks over at the woman. She looks confused.

The woman stands, grabs her purse, pulls out an 8x10 glossy

of herself and hands it to Barris, then exits. Barris stares

at the photo for a moment, then opens a drawer and puts on

top of a pile of similar photos.

EXT. PENNY'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Barris pulls up, gets out of his car, and heads toward the

building.

INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Barris walks down the hall, carrying a bouquet of flowers.

He arrives at Penny's door. There is an envelope attached to

it with Barris's name on it. He opens the envelope and reads

the letter.

Barris hurriedly opens the door, enters the apartment looks

around, finds Penny face down on the floor, surrounded by

empty champagne bottles and vials of pills. He stares at her

body for a moment, feeling faint. He drops to his knees.

CONTINUED:

INT. DINER - NIGHT

Barris and Penny sit in a booth. Penny has black coffee in

front of her. She is pale and drawn.

CONTINUED:

Barris and Penny look at each other.    She starts to cry.

EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - NIGHT

A non-descript American car is parked on the quiet wooded

street. Barris pulls up in his Jaguar. He gets out of the

car, looks in the window of the empty American car.

Barris looks over and makes out Byrd sitting on a rock with a

view of L.A. spread out in front of him. Barris joins him.

CONTINUED:

INT. DATING GAME SET

A Dating Game couple waits anxiously for host Jim Lange to

announce their destination.

The couple screams excitedly by reflect, but as the

destination sinks in, their perplexity becomes apparent.

EXT. WEST BERLIN STREET - DAY

Barris and the Dating Game couple walk along. It's cold and

gray and they all wear heavy coats. The couple wear cameras

around their necks. Nobody looks happy.

INT. BEER HALL - NIGHT

Barris sits in the corner of this noisy, smoky place. He has

a stein of beer and reads a paper as a group of drunken

Germans in the background sing a song. Patricia Watson

approaches and sits. Barris looks up and smiles.

CONTINUED:

INT. TUNNEL - DAY

Barris crawls through a long dirt tunnel. Telephone cables

run along the floor. An occasional bare bulb lights the way.

INT. APARTMENT BATHROOM - DAY

A middle-aged man stands in his underwear at a mirror and

shaves. The stall shower pushes away from the wall revealing

a hole. Barris steps through it, covered in dust. He nods at

the shaving man. He nods back, hands Barris a gun and a

change of clothes, and continues shaving.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - MOMENTS LATER

Barris exits the apartment building in the clean clothes. We

see the East Berlin side of the wall in the background. A

car pulls up and Barris gets in.

INT. CAR, RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

Barris sits in the parked car with Keeler, a heavyset, silent

German man with nicotine stained fingers and teeth. He is

constantly smoking and writing in a tiny notebook. There is

a long silence.

Barris looks out the window. There is nothing going on, yet

Keeler keeps writing. More silence.

CONTINUED:

INT. PARKED CAR - NIGHT

Barris and Keeler are still in the car. Keeler continues to

smoke and write. A well-rested, happy-looking Colbert walks

by with a group of people.

INT. PARKED CAR - AFTERNOON

Barris looks even more sickly. Colbert rides by happily on a

tandem bike with a lovely woman on the back. Keeler

continues to smoke and write.

INT. PARKED CAR - EVENING

Barris and Keeler wait in the car. Colbert emerges from his

house, alone, and walks toward the car. A drained Barris

sighs a sigh of relief, then suddenly and with unexpected

force, Keeler swings open the passenger door. The door hits

a stunned Colbert and sends him flying. Keeler races around

the car, grabs Colbert, throws him into the back seat, and

jumps on top of him. Barris watches, surprised at the

dramatic personality shift in Keeler. Keeler is strangling

Colbert. A cigarettes is dangling casually from his lips as

he does this. Keeler turns Colbert over so he's facing him,

so he can watch him die.

Barris reaches under the seat, pulls out a Polaroid camera.

Barris is stunned, scared. He takes the photo. The flash

illuminates the bulging-eyed Colbert and the calm Keeler.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Barris types.   A knock at the door.   He looks up, panicked.

Barris looks around. The place is a disaster. Food

wrappers, crumpled papers, liquor bottles, strewn clothing,

plastic army men set up for battle. He gets up, puts on a

hotel bathrobe and his hat, grabs his gun, checks the

peephole for a long moment, and answers the door. The

housekeeper is plump and kind-looking.

She puts the gun in a drawer, starts to pick up.   Barris

watches her, then:

CONTINUED:

Barris smacks himself in the head.

Barris smiles a rubber-band smile.

Barris resumes typing.   The housekeeper cleans.

EXT. EAST BERLIN STREET - EARLY MORNING

A hollow-eyed Barris approaches the building that conceals

the tunnel entrance. Suddenly there's a commotion on the

quiet street. The shaving man is being led handcuffed out of

the building by two trench-coated men. They shove him into a

car. Barris continues to walk by, betraying no interest. He

glances casually into the entranceway of the apartment

building. Another trenchcoated man waits inside the shadows.

CONTINUED:

The car drives away. Barris stops at the end of the block,

stares at the imposing wall.

Another car pulls up next to him. Picard, a        serious-looking

Frenchman, sticks his head out the window.

Barris hesitates, gets in.        The car screeches off.

INT. PICARD'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Picard drives fast. Barris eyes him suspiciously, fingers

his gun. Picard spots a Fiat in his rearview mirror.

Barris checks in the passenger side mirror.

Picard speeds up dramatically, but continues to drive calmly.

Barris is agitated.

Picard screeches around a corner, then another one.            He's

lost the Fiat, for the moment.

EXT. QUIET EAST BERLIN STREET - EARLY MORNING

Picard's car stops at the curb. Picard and Barris emerge.

Picard opens the trunk. He lifts out a big folded-up clump

of rubber with a an engine mounted on it.

Picard unfolds the rubber mass. He pulls a cord and it

begins to inflate. It is an airplane, a one person

inflatable plane.

EXT. BERLIN WALL - DAY

The fully-inflated rubber plane flies down the street,

dipping and rising erratically. The noise is deafening.

Barris lies on his stomach and steers, looking petrified.    He

approaches the wall and manages to get the plane over it.

The plane is shot by a soldier. Air hisses out.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

Barris sits on a park bench.   Jim Byrd approaches, sits.

CONTINUED:

INT. REHEARSAL HALL - DAY

Barris sits with a several network executive and some other

staff members watching a fat man tap dance badly and, because

of his weight, extremely loudly. It's painful for everybody

to watch. The fat man finishes.

The fat smiles and exits.       Barris puts his head in his hands.

The executives look at each other.

CONTINUED:

An assistant opens the door and a middle-aged woman in pale

blue polyester pants and Joan Crawford painted on eyebrows

enters with a guitar. She begins to sing a folk song, very

sincerely, in a very off-key monotone. It's unbearable and

depressing. Barris glances over at the executive; she's

checking her watch again. The song is endless.    Barris's

eyes grow cloudy.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

This is the same field where Renda was shot. Now, the

folksinging woman is in the field singing. Barris pulls out

a gun and aims it at the woman. Her eyes widen in terror,

but she keeps singing. A church bell chimes and Barris

shoots her. She flies back, spurting blood. Her guitar hits

the ground with a twang.

INT. REHEARSAL HALL - DAY

Barris snaps out of his fantasy with renewed energy      The

folksinger is still droning on.

Barris closes the door behind the folksinger and turns to the

executives.

CONTINUED:

INT. GONG SHOW SET - DAY

Barris and some suits watch from the booth as an octogenarian

woman on stage sings "Born Free" in an impossibly high voice.

Jamie Farr gongs the woman. The woman is angry. A vacuous

host with great hair appears next to the woman. He seems

genuinely agitated.

The executives eye each other.

All the executives smile at Barris.

CONTINUED:

INT. BARRIS PRODUCTIONS - NIGHT

Barris switches on the lights, walks through the empty

bullpen area to his office, unlocks the door, enters.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Barris enters, stares out the window, looks at himself in a

full-length mirror.

Barris sits behind his desk, draws a line down a piece of

paper and writes "Pros" and "Cons" at the top of the page.

He thinks. Under "Pros" he writes "Become National

Celebrity", "Get More Attention from Stewardesses", "Even

more women will want to have sex with me". Under "Cons" he

writes: "Easier target for KGB." He gets up, paces.

Suddenly, a shot rings out. It comes through the window and

shatters the mirror.   Barris dives to the floor. More

shots, crazy relentless shooting. Barris crawls on his belly

to the window, carefully reaches up and lowers the venetian

blinds just as another shot whizzes through. The blinds

explode. The shooting stops He waits on the floor, shaking

like a leaf. He pulls the list off his desk and writes under

"Pro": "I need another hit before I die."

INT. GONG SHOW SET - DAY

Center-stage is empty.   The band begins to play.   The studio

audience cheers.

The curtain rises. Barris appears in a tuxedo coat, denim

work shirt, cowboy boots and a hat pulled down over his eyes.

CONTINUED:

Big Nose leaps onto stage. He is skinny, wearing a flowered

shirt and a sarong, and playing a toy flute while dancing in

ladies platform shoes. Suddenly he drops his flute, rips off

his sarong, revealing polka-dotted boxer shorts and a yellow

leotard. He rushes to a steamer trunk, opens it, and begins

crazily pulling out endless amounts of old newspapers.

Barris watches from the wings, mesmerized. Big Nose is

gonged. Barris dances out onto stage to join him.

Barris glances out into the audience. Something glints. Is

it a gun. He starts to sweat. Jaye P. Morgan is saying

something about Big Nose. But we can't understand it. The

audience laughs. Barris continues to scan the audience.

Someone in headphones signals Barris from behind a camera.

Barris waits on his mark for the taping to again begin. He

watches the commotion around him with eagle eyes: technicians

and stagehands running around, the audience chanting "Chuckie

Baby", the celebrity panel joking with each other, the guys

in the booth smoking, the guys in the band laughing. Barris

turns around and around on his mark, trying to catch every

movement, looking for a gun, a suspicious character. The

chanting continues, louder and more distorted. The faces in

the audience turn grotesque. Barris sweats profusely, his

breathing becomes more and more shallow. Suddenly his eyes

roll back in his head and he drops to the stage floor,

unconscious.

NEWSPAPER HEADLINES BEING SHOWN TO THE CAMERA:

VARIETY:   GONG SHOW EM-BARRIS-MENT OF RICHES

HOLLYWOOD REPORTER:        KING GONG!

CONTINUED:

L.A. TIMES: BARRIS'S TALENT SHOWS

DAILY NEWS: GONG HO!

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

We see Barris in bed, hooked up to machines The executive

woman sits by his bed showing him the headlines.

INT. GONG SHOW SET - DAY

Barris on stage introducing an act.      He is very confident.

CONTINUED:

The curtain rises. A young man with a square of Plexiglass

in his hands, presses his lips against the Plexiglass and

blows. It makes a farting noise and allows to the audience

to see inside his mouth.

INT. WINGS - CONTINUOUS

Barris snorts some cocaine. We hear the act and audience

"booing" and yelling "Gong him!" in the background.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY

The actual Jaye P. Morgan is being interviewed.

INT. GONG SHOW SET - DAY

Barris dances onstage with Gene Gene the Dancing Machine.

INT. SUBURBAN LIVING ROOM - DAY

The actual Gene Gene is being interviewed.

INT. GONG SHOW SET - DAY

A black guy with weird teeth and a speech impediment attempts

stand-up. He looks petrified.

The audience yells "How bad was it?"   This throws the

performer. Finally he continues.

CONTINUED:

The audience boos.

The booing continues. The comedian can't take it. He looks

disoriented. He turns away from the audience and puts his

head in his hands. Jamie Farr gongs him.

EXT. SWIMMING POOL - DAY

The actual Jamie Farr sits next to the pool. In the

background we see a couple of kids with enormous noses

splashing around in the water.

INT. BARRIS'S BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT

Barris lies in bed next to Patricia. It's 12:30 AM. He's

chatting on the phone, lazily twirling the cord. Patricia

reads.

CONTINUED:

Barris hangs up. Patricia kisses him.       She pulls away.

The phone rings.

Barris jerks up, surprised, alarmed.       Patricia watches him.

Barris hangs up.

CONTINUED: (2)

Patricia glances over at Barris.   They stare at each other.

EXT. LA SCALA PARKING LOT - EVENING

Barris pulls into the parking lot. As he waits for the valet

parking attendant to get to him, he adjusts the gun strapped

to his ankle.

INT. LA SCALA - EVENING

Barris enters the crowded restaurant, looks around, spots

Keeler sitting at a table in the rear. As he makes his way

back, Barris shakes hands and says hello to several early

seventies tv celebrities scattered throughout the restaurant:

Carrol O'Connor, Joanne Worley, Flip Wilson, Ron Palillo.

Barris arrives at Keeler's table. Keeler rises and embraces

Chuck. He's already drunk. They sit.

There is an awkward silence.

Barris, pleased to have something to talk about, rambles.

Keeler is staring right through Barris.

CONTINUED:

Barris looks around, clears his throat.

The waiter appears.

The waiter leaves.    Keeler sips his drink, stares at Barris.

CONTINUED: (2)

Barris looks into Keeler's hollow eyes.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

The actual Barris puffs on his cigar.

EXT. L.A. HOTEL - NIGHT

Keeler falls silently in slow motion from a very high window.

INT. MARTONI'S - NIGHT

Barris eats dinner with Penny.   Barris seems depressed.

Penny is reserved.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED: (2)

Patricia storms up to the table.

Patricia exits.   Penny just looks down at the table.

INT. BARRIS'S ROLLS ROYCE - NIGHT

Barris snorts some coke, pulls out of the studio parking lot.

The sound of his heart beating pounds in his ears. Another

car pulls behind him. A wired Barris notices the car in his

rearview mirror. He turns. The other car turns also.

Barris speeds up. So does the other car. Barris panics; he

tries to lose the other car. A chase ensues. Finally Barris

screeches to a halt, pulls a gun from his glove compartment.

The second car screeches to a halt behind him. Barris

already out of his car and at the driver's side window of the

second car. He looks in and sees there are two petrified

teenagers, a boy and a girl, holding up their hands. Barris

pulls open the door.

The girl is crying.

Barris points the gun at them for a long while, his hands

shaking wildly.

INT. GONG SHOW WINGS - DAY

Barris stands backstage waiting for his cue. The Unknown

Comic appears next to him, wearing a paper bag with two

eyeholes cut out over his head. Barris glances over at him.

Barris doesn't say anything. He studies the bag. Barris

pulls a pistol from an ankle holster, and jams it against the

bag.

CONTINUED:

The Unknown Comic takes the bag off.   He looks terrified.

Barris stares him down.

Barris dances onto the stage.

INT. GONG SHOW SET - CONTINUOUS

Barris is clapping his hands together.   He looks happy and

relaxed. The audience is cheering.

The Unknown Comic appears upstage with bag on head.

The audience laughs. Barris feigns annoyance and pushes the

unknown comic off the stage.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - DAY

Barris sits behind his desk, drinking and popping pills.

Loretta pokes her head in.

CONTINUED:

Barris picks up the phone.

INT. CHILDHOOD BEDROOM - DAY

Tuvia plays with the dog.    White panties are revealed.

EXT. FRONT PORCH - DAY

Adult Tuvia answers the door with her baby.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Barris waits in a booth, anxiously eyeing the door.      A guy

approaches.

CONTINUED:

The guy gets down on all fours and starts barking and panting

like a dog. It is a repulsive and frightening sight, but

Barris becomes transfixed by it and cannot take his eyes off

the guy.

Barris tears his eyes away from the dog guy to look at Tuvia.

She is an older middle-aged lady. Younger than Chuck, but

clearly of no interest to him. The disappointment on his

face is palpable.

INT. BAR - LATER

Barris sits in a booth across from Tuvia. The relationship

has shifted once again. Now middle-aged Tuvia is trying to

flirt. As they talk, she touches his arm repeatedly. She

laughs at everything he says. She reapplies lipstick as they

talk. There's a quiet desperation in her eyes. Barris is

pleasant but unengaged.

CONTINUED:

INT. TRAIN - NIGHT

Middle-aged Tuvia staring out at the night-time landscape in

the darkened train car, her suitcase on the seat next to her.

INT. BARRIS'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Barris is having sex with two twenty year old nymphettes     The

drugs and alcohol flow freely. He seems to be enjoying

himself but there is a hollowness in his eyes.

INT. GONG SHOW SET - DAY

The rabid audience members chant, "Chuckie Baby, Chuckie

Baby, Chuckie Baby..."

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Barris snorts Coke in the darkness.He scans an article

headlined: "Chuck Barris is the Decline of Western

Civilization." The phone rings, alarmingly breaking the

stillness.

EXT. EAST BERLIN STREET - EARLY MORNING

Barris looks down from the plane as Picard, on the ground,

runs after it.

INT. BARRIS'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Barris hangs up the phone. He stares off into the distance.

The phone rings again, again shattering the silence.

INT. GONG SHOW SET - DAY

Barris on stage with red stocking hat.

CONTINUED:

The contestants appear on stage.

A model appears with a trophy and a big check and hands it to

an enormously fat woman. The other contestants appluad. two

midgets dance. The band plays. A massive amount of confetti

and balloons fall on everyone.

INT. AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

It's the Emmy Awards. Barris is in the audience, next to his

starlet date. He sweats through his tuxedo, fidgets. Ed

Asner and Caroll O'Connor are on stage presenting.

The Taxi theme starts as the winners make their way to the

stage.

The starlet whispers into Barris's ear, outraged at the

unfairness.

Barris looks sick.    Jim Brooks is on stage accepting.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Barris is locked in a stall, vomiting. The door to the

bathroom opens. Someone enters. Barris peeks through the

closed stall door. It's Jim Brooks, whistling and holding

his Emmy. He places it next to the sink, unzips his fly and

pisses. An agitated Barris pulls his gun from his ankle

holster, opens the stall door a crack, and shakily aims the

gun at Brooks' back.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Barris is crying. He turns the gun away from Brooks, almost

against his will, and sticks it in his own mouth. After a

moment, he realizes he can't do that either.

Barris puts the gun away, flushes the toilet and exits the

stall.

Brooks turns and looks at Barris.     He smiles.

They smile and nod at each other awkwardly. Chuck waits for

some sort of return of the compliment. It does not come.

They continue to nod at each other.

INT. OFFICES OF GRACIE FILMS - DAY

The actual Jim Brooks is being interviewed.

Brooks thinks, looks at interviewer.

INT. CHATEAU MARMONT BUNGALOW - NIGHT

A big party is in progress. The place is packed. Late

seventies celebrities abound. Alan Alda is there. Burt

Reynolds, Jamie Farr, Jaye P. Morgan, Gene Gene the Dancing

Machine, Pam Dawber, Farrah Fawcett Majors and Lee Majors,

John Belushi. Chuck Barris steps out of the bathroom, drink

in hand. He wipes his nose like someone who's just snorted

coke. He wanders disconsolately and slightly wild-eyed

through the crowd. He sits in a chair. A man sitting across

from him looks at Barris. His eyes light up.

Party Man #1 begins farting "Jingle Bells."   Barris   gets up

and moves away.

CONTINUED:

Barris settles by the fireplace.      A pretty woman approaches,

smiling.

CONTINUED: (2)

Barris loses himself in the crowd.    He hurries past a guy who

recognizes and starts chanting.

Barris turns and makes his way through the crowd to the door.

EXT. SUNSET BLVD - NIGHT

Barris makes his way down the crowded street. People stare,

turn their heads to gawk. We hear over and over again: "Hey,

isn't that Chuck Barris?" and "Hey, look, The Gong Show

guy!", and "Chuckie baby, Chuckie baby!" Barris smiles wanly

and nods. People shove paper and pen in his face and he

scribbles autographs without stopping. Sweat forms on his

brow. His polyester shirt is drenched.

Among the fans on the street, Barris spots the fat bachelor

he killed in London. He sports a bullet hole in his head

Barris does a double take.

Barris hurries away from the fat bachelor. He begins to spot

others converging on him: the corpses of those he killed,

bloody and disfigured. Crazy, angry-looking gonged Gong Show

contestants appear in the crowd with weapons. KGB agents in

trench coats and sunglasses wield guns, Day of the Dead

skeletons dance after him. Barris breaks into a run.

Suddenly confetti and balloons pour down on him out of the

L.A. night sky. Barris dashes across the street, almost

getting hit by a car. He ducks down an alley to catch his

breath. As he leans against the wall and heaves, a middle-

aged woman appears, somewhat backlit by the street light.

CONTINUED:

The woman continues to approach.

There's no way out of this.     Barris sighs.

Barris turns to face the woman, who's very close now. She

starts to dance around, sort of ballet-like, very badly.

Barris watches. She pirouettes, arms above her head.

Something in her hand glints in the light. Barris

reflexively grabs her arm. It's an ice pick. The two

wrestle for it. The woman is extremely strong. Barris jams

the palm of his hand up into the woman's nose. She staggers

back, but doesn't drop the ice pick. Barris leaps at her.

The two roll on the ground. The woman pins Barris. She

straddles him and is about to stab him through the air.

Barris reaches under her skirt and grabs her crotch. The

middle-aged woman is a man. He screams in a distinctly male

voice. Barris takes the moment of distraction to grab the

ice pick and jam it up through the assailant's chin and into

his brain. The assailant slumps over.

CONTINUED: (2)

Barris pushes the body off himself, kneels beside it, and

pulls off the wig. He gets up, shaking and heaving. He

looks at the body one more time, kicks it in the head with

all his might.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

SUBTITLE: NEW YORK CITY, SPRING 1982

We see Barris from above, shivering and naked in the corner.

The manuscript pages are piled high next to the typewriter.

Barris looks up at the camera with outstretched arms,

appealing to the gods.

There is a pounding on the wall from a neighbor.

There's a knock at the door.    Barris crawls toward it, peeks

through the peephole.

Barris unlocks the door.    Simon Oliver stands there.

CONTINUED:

Barris trails off.

Barris lunges at Oliver, pushes him against the wall.

Barris lets go.    Oliver sits in a chair, straightens his

shirt.

CONTINUED: (2)

CONTINUED: (3)

Barris lunges at Oliver. The two wrestle on the floor.

Barris punches him repeatedly in the face.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Barris lies sleeping in a tangle of sheets. There's blood on

his hands. A knock at the door. Barris jumps awake, grabs

his gun. He looks around. The room is a mess, stuff knocked

over. There's been a fight. He sees his bloody hands.

Another knock.

Barris brings his gun with him to the door, looks through the

peephole, then opens the door. Penny stands there, takes in

the room, the mess, the haggard Barris.

Barris hugs her.

CONTINUED:

Penny nods her head and leaves.    Barris watches her go, then

falls to the floor and weeps.

EXT. PLANE - DAY

EXT. UNION OYSTER HOUSE, BOSTON - NIGHT

INT. UNION OYSTER HOUSE, BOSTON

Barris, dressed in a suit, sits with Patricia Watson.     He

smiles across the table at her.

CONTINUED:

Patricia looks at him. Her hard-as-nails demeanor softens.

She smiles. Barris smiles and reaches across the table for

her hand.

EXT. WHARF - NIGHT

Barris and Patricia stand looking out at the harbor.

Barris drapes his jacket over Patricia's shoulders.

CONTINUED:

Barris kisses her.      She lets him.

She takes his hand.      They walk off.

INT. PATRICIA'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Patricia enters followed by Barris.       She turns on the light.

Patricia pours some drinks. There are a couple of chairs

near the window. Barris sits in one.

Patricia approaches Barris with the drinks, hands him one.

Patricia takes Barris by the hand, leads him to the window.

CONTINUED:

Patricia flops down in the chair that Barris had been sitting

in. Barris sits in the chair across from her. Patricia

raises her glass.

Patricia casually slides her hand under the chair cushion.

In one swift move, Barris pulls a gun from his ankle and

shoots Patricia three times, twice in the head, once in the

heart. The force of the bullets has tipped the chair over.

Patricia lies sprawled on the floor.

Barris stands and looks at Patricia's body.      She holds a gun.

INT. QUIET CAFE - MORNING

Simon Oliver sits sipping an espresso. He has a black eye

and bruised face. Barris enters, looking haggard. He sits

and stares at Oliver.

Oliver smiles and walks off. Barris sits for a moment, then

stands, walks over to a payphone and dials.

INT. CHAPEL - DAY

Barris and Penny are getting married surrounded by friends in

a small chapel.

CONTINUED:

Barris looks at Penny. Should he slug this guy?    She gives

him a "be patient" look.

EXT. CHAPEL - DAY

Well-wishers, family, fans, photographers, reporters, and

passers-by are lined up on either side of a red carpet that

leads from the chapel to a limousine waiting at the curb.

Barris and Penny emerge from the chapel. Everyone cheers,

photos are snapped, rice and confetti are thrown, as the

happy newlyweds make their way to the limo, Barris spots a

pinky-ringed hand in the crowd holding a gun. Barris pushes

Penny toward the white limo. The driver stands there holding

the door open. Barris shoves Penny in, then screams at the

driver.

Barris jumps in the car, the driver slams the door closed,

hurries around the driver's door and gets in. The car peals

away from the cab.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

An ashen Barris looks back at the crowd.    Penny watches him.

Penny's expression shifts, turns slightly stony.   She's

getting ready for something bad.

CONTINUED:

Penny just stares blankly at Barris, who can't look at her.

Suddenly she starts to laugh. Danny joins in. Eventually so

does Barris.

EXT. TERRACE - DAY

The actual Barris is being interviewed.

The camera holds on Barris's face as he puffs a cigar.

