A fanfare as the gates swing open as a coach-and-four

rattles through.

Jemmy Buttons, looking very smart in velvet suit with

silver buttons gives proper bow and shakes the Royal hand.

Fuegia Basket curtsies.

Queen Victoria remains out of shot but her attendants hand

out presents off a purple silk cushion: A Bible for Fuegia

and a telescope for Jemmy

Hairy savages reassemble on the cliff tops

The hairy savages squint from the cliffs to sea....

Another boat, the Beagle, has anchored in their bay.

Captain Fitzroy is being rowed ashore with Darwin, plus a

very young parson and the two young Fuegans, who are happy

and agitated to see their homeland again.

Annie suspects there is a joke coming and cant help her

mouth from twitching the corners.

At the first sight of their countrymen, Jemmy and Fuegia

rip off their clothes, drop the bible and the telescope,

and run to join them, yelling like nut-cases.

The benighted young parson scrambles after them, collecting

their discarded garments from among the rain-swept rocks.

The telescope is smashed. The Bible lies abandoned - the

wind catching its soggy pages and whirling them off in the

storm.

Darwin still laughing, dabs his eyes

The photographer disappears behind black curtains.

Annie composes her face in an expression of angelic

seriousness.

A glass dome above her head glows snapdragon blue

Close on Darwin watching his daughter, his eyes still damp

with tears of laughter.

Electricity hums. The strange blue light glows brighter,

brighter... Brighter.

The image of his daughter imprints on Darwin's memory. Just

so. Forever.

Servants are laying a table for dinner

Gas lamps and the coal fire struggle to illuminate the

lofty room.

Emma purses her lips and turns her attention back to the

children

Darwin takes a couple of spoonfuls, pauses, as a wave of

nausea sweeps over him, then pushes away the dish.

He gets up and leaves. As soon as he has gone, the children

natural talkativeness reasserts itself.

A branch taps gently against the window pain, like an

insistent guest demanding to be admitted.

The coal fire burns low in the grate - wind in the chimney

rattling the damper

Firelight flickers on a collection of finches in a glass

case, on a bird skeleton, on a fossil, and on numerous

specimen bottles containing the fleshy parts of barnacles

preserved in spirit-of-wine.

Darwin sits immobile in his chair, regarding a locked,

black lacquered steel trunk, on the floor under his work

table.

A voice speaks behind him.

He turns and sees her sitting on the day bed - the same

little bright eyed girl from the daguerrotype studio.

She's the same age as she was then and wearing the same

checkered dress - though Darwin himself has aged ten years.

He continues to stare at the shiny black box, his hand

fluttering lightly - a nervous tic.

Music seeps in - a soothing Chopin Nocturne and....

Darwin aged 40 - bright-eyed and inquisitive leans over to

examine something, offering it his finger tip while making

little tut tut tut noises.

In the cot is a one-month old baby.

The piano music continuing over, as her fist closes round

the end of his finger, then tries to pull it towards her

mouth.

He pulls it away from her and she frowns.

He offers it again and the tug of war becomes a game.

Baby Annie laughs.

Darwin writes something in his notebook. Then tucks his

pencil behind his ear and tries out various facial

expressions - scowling, smiling - to gauge the baby's

response.

Emma turns on the piano-stool.

She comes over and, leaning against him, reads from his

notebook.

The baby lets out a long yodel of pleasure

He takes Emma in his arms. She gives a little squeak -

caught off balance then laughing as he waltzes her around

the room, singing.

An army of children - the Darwin family - run across the

screen from left to right. The little kids first,

scampering through the hay meadow off into the trees.

Household servants follow, carrying blankets, hampers and

parasols.

The red haired Scottish nursemaid Brodie, shouts ahead to

the little ones.

The children ignore her so she pick up her skirts and races

after them.

The Adults follow in their wake - Charles and Emma Darwin

plus two younger men aged about 30 - Joe Hooker and the Rev

Innes

They have set up their picnic on a river bank.

Emma is reading.

Joseph Hooker is teaching the boys to fish. He has

spectacles and long wispy side-whiskers: a battered panama

on his head and his trousers rolled up to his knees.

The fishing float moves a little

He's dropped his spectacles in the shallows.

George (aged 5) feels a jerk on the line. He squeals and

drops the rod. The fish takes off upriver. Will goes after

the dropped rod.

On shore, Annie runs up with a collecting box to show her

father

She opens the box to show him a little black beetle.

The local parson, Innes, inclines his head to inspect it

Innes looks to Darwin for advice

A sailing ship sails past, trailing phosphorescence it its

wake.

The figure in silhouette of young Darwin inspects a flask

of sea water, glowing in the darkness.

He takes a few drops on a watch glass and places them on

the illuminated stage of his microscope.

Under the microscope, against a black background, millions

of tiny swimming animals.

Cut to the air above the picnickers - alive with glittering

particles - against the dark trees behind.

Darwin smiles at the idea, turns to Innes

Emma waves it away. Just teasing

The sheep's skull is half-decomposed.

In fast forward we see maggots pecking the remnants of

flesh from the bone, birds feeding on the maggots.

A bird becomes trapped among the briars. It flaps madly

upsetting a nest.

Eggs and blind featherless hatchlings fall down through the

dark web of branches where they are devoured by voles and

rats, then slugs, then worms

All the times tendrils and vines are growing, the skull -

bleached white - now encased in a cage of thick spiny

branches, fizzing with insect life, where ants and ground

beetles feast on the carcasses of slugs and....

Darwin wakes in sudden terror.

Dawn light illuminates the wallpaper in front of him - a

William Morris design of interweaving vines.

Emma, is asleep in her night-cap at his side.

Darwin lies for a while in the semi darkness, until his

hand, fluttering on the coverlet, becomes still at last.

Light and noise.

Crash of gleaming copperware, clattering of water in the

pipes as the servants prepare Sunday breakfast

The cook, Mrs Davies looks out through a steamed up window

to see the angular figure of Charles Darwin, bent almost

double inspecting a tiny segment of lawn.

Brodie joins Mrs Davies at the window.

Children thunder up and down the stairs between Brodie who

is doing a final check on grooming and Emma who is

marshalling them in the hall.

Baby Lenny starts crying and she goes to comfort him

Brodie is arranging hair and tying ribbons for Annie (9)

Etty (6) and Betty (3)

Willy passes the door, his hair in need of brushing.

William comes in. Brodie brushes the back of his hair.

Willy presents them for checking.

The children come racing and swinging and clattering down

the stairs.

Emma, holding the baby in one arm, steers a tricycle out of

the way, clearing a path to the door

George aged 5 tugs at her skirt

George (5) pulls it out from his pocket. Its dead, muddy

and bloody

Pealing of church bells

Mist rises from the ploughed fields and hangs among the

ancient oaks.

A little procession heads down the lane. The Darwins -

Charles and Emma - plus their servants and children (older

now, for we have flipped into the present), all in their

Sunday best.

The trees are bare. Their breath condenses as they walk.

The ancient flint church stands in the centre of Downe

(sic) village, opposite the George and Dragon pub.

A massive and venerable Yew tree casts its shade over a

number of gravestones one of them inscribed "to Mary Darwin

born Sept 1842 died Oct 1842."

Beyond the church fence, villagers greet each other before

heading inside. The great majority of the village have

turned out, from Squire Lubbock through the tradesmen and

domestic servants from the village to the clodhoppers (farm

labourers) in their colored smocks.

Rev Innes is welcoming his large flock at the gate.

Then his eye moves on to Charles Darwin and his smile

falters, his expression turning slightly cold.

Darwin tips his hat rather stiffly and walks away, through

the throng of parishioners, leaving his family to file into

the church without him.

Darwin walks across the meadow and into the woods.

A flock of crows take flight from the rookery in the bare

trees overhead.

In darkness, a furious struggle, squawking and frantically

beating wings.

Darwin seizes on a dove and backs out of the dovecote, the

silhouette of his upper torso taking shape in the square

hole in the floor.

He climbs down the ladder, passes the captive bird down to

Parslow, then climbs back up and pushes him upper body into

the dovecot again, in search of the next victim.

The dovecote is a substantial affair on four pillars with a

ladder in the centre.

Outside the dovecote, the boys are racing around playing at

soldiers. (Franky 10, Lenny 8, Horace 6)

Parslow has a number of the birds in cages

He looks up as a coach appears in the lane. The boys

immediately break off from their game and run after it,

shouting.

Darwin tries to wipe the bird shit off his hands and

succeeds only in getting it on his sleeve.

His breathing quickens. He seems at a loss. Parslow is

awaiting further instructions

He hurries off.

The coach pulls up and Hooker alights - ten years older

than when we saw him catching fish, but still with the same

hallmark side whiskers and wire-rimmed spectacles, the same

springy step and ready grin.

Already he is being mobbed by the younger boys - Lenny,

Franky, and Horace - who clearly adore him.

Emma emerges from the front door. She smiles, pleased to

see Hooker despite her misgivings.

Huxley has seen Darwin, washing his hands by the

"skeletonizing shed".

Huxley hangs back to introduce himself as Hooker steers

Emma off into the house.

Emma looks anxiously after Huxley but allows herself to be

gently side-lined.

Emma is by the kitchen window, rearranging tea things on a

tray.

The sky outside is dark and lowering.

Through the window she can see Darwin heading off down the

sand walk - head bowed, walking stick in hand - deep in

conversation with Huxley.

She drops a tea-cup which smashes on the stone floor.

The Sand-walk is a gravel walking path between the garden

and the fields, flanked by mature oaks and ancient willows.

Huxley waves it away

The Coach to London has pulled up outside the front gate.

Huxley is aboard. Darwin is talking with the coachman

Hooker comes down the path in his black coat, carrying his

Gladstone bag.

He turns. He has already said his good-byes.

Hooker gets aboard. Huxley leans out of a window and waves

cheerily to the whey-faced Darwin

The coach pulls away.

Looking back though the rear window Hooker sees Emma with

the boys clustered around her skirts.

Huxley takes off his spectacles and polishes them,

embarrassed by Huxley's directness, inspecting his own

conscience in the bevelled glass.

In the darkened study, with his specimens and books all

around him, Darwin kneels by the box.

Steeling himself, he unlocks the padlock and opens the lid

and takes out the papers and notebooks which are stored

there.

The bulk of it is a single manuscript, accumulated over

many years, divided into 14 chapters with pages of notes

interleaved.

The Chapters are headed. Variation under domestication,

variation under nature, Struggle for Existence, Natural

Selection....

A noise behind him almost makes him jump out of his skin.

Its Annie, ten years old in her checked dress, as she will

always be in his imagination.

He sits there regarding the open box, paralysed by

indecision. Annie tenderly smooths his hair, rearranging

his collar.

Though the soft touch of her little hands is almost too

real for him to bear and he closes his eyes

The sound of a wave breaking. Wind stirs Darwin's hair

He opens his eyes and he is ....

Sitting with Annie ten years ago on an English pebble

beach.

She has collected a pile of shells and is arranging them in

"families".

The dialogue is continuous

She looks up from her shells and smiles winningly.

Darwin looks out to sea, at the bright crashing line of

surf, and begins the familiar, much-told tale:

Our POV moves between dark tropical trees to find a group

of Orangutans flopping around grooming each other.

As with the land of the Fuegan savages, there is something

slightly artificial about these jungles, as though the

trees really belong in Kew gardens, and the naked jungle

warriors, whom we now see stalking through them, are on

loan from the museum of mankind.

We follow a young nimble female, swinging through the

trees, revelling in her own gymnastic ability, until she

stops - hearing something: the sound of human speech.

Native hunters are creeping through the undergrowth

A warning screech from one of the Orang-u-tangs posted as

lookouts.

Most of the apes flee up into the canopy. Jenny stays where

she is, fascinated, just a moment longer than is prudent.

As she turns to flee a weighted net is thrown on top of

her. The hunters pounce.

The family screech and hoot, anguished, as the hunters head

back off through the trees.

Exotic coins and bank-notes pass from hand to hand: from

the tribal chief to the sultan, in his overlarge turban,

from the sultan to the trader in his solar topee and

stained white suit.

Jenny is taken out of a bamboo cage and put into a metal

cage.

The cage is lowered by a crane. Jenny looks out from her

swaying prison at spinning grey skies and brick warehouses.

Now she sits disconsolately in a corner of her permanent

enclosure.

She has been dressed, ridiculously and poignantly in a

smock and a bonnet.

A group of onlookers are trying to get a reaction out of

her. Eventually they give up and move on.

Darwin moves forwards from the shadows, where he has been

observing and taking notes.

As the other humans move away be attempts to start a

conversation with Jenny in her own language, much in the

way he communicated with baby Annie.

Meaning: "OK then, I'm sorry."

It's such a complex human reaction - grudging contrition -

that Charles laughs aloud with pleasure.

Jenny laughs.

Charles takes out a mouth organ and plays a snatch of

Chopin.

Jenny covers her ears and chatters. "Not listening not

listening!"

Charles, insulted, stops playing.

Jenny laughs waves a hand as if to say: "Play, if it amuses

you. I'm must kidding."

The salt wind. The dazzling light. The slow pulse of the

surf.

Darwin has paused in his narrative.

Darwin smiles, his own eyes filling with tears.

Then a door opens, softly, in the sky.

It opens wider to reveal Emma's elegant profile, framed

against the gaslight of the hallway.

Emma has. They both know it. She turns abruptly from the

door and hurries away.

Emma has been crying. She lies in bed pretending to sleep.

Darwin gets into bed behind her. He wants desperately to

reach out a hand to touch her, to comfort her, but he

cannot do it for fear of weakening his own fragile resolve.

In the dawn light, Darwin is writing a letter to his wife.

EMMA stands alone in the wintry garden, a white apron over

her black dress, reading.

A tear tracks down the curve of Emma's cheek as she folds

the letter, puts it in her pocket and return to the

business of dead-heading flowers.

In voice over we hear singing.

Move in through the graveyard, past the ancient yew..

The church is packed for the Sunday Morning service

The Darwin family stand in the front row.

Emma, the servants and the rest of the family are singing

lustily: Parslow - a somewhat pompous operatic tenor,

Brodie and Innes both loudly Scottish (Innes out of tune),

Annie by Darwins side, trilling along in a tuneful little

descant.

She notices her father is not singing and offers him her

hymn book with the words.

Darwin smiles and returns it. Its not that he doesn't know

the lyrics, its just that he can't bring himself to say

them.

The organ, played by Mrs Innes,   wheezes to a pause. Innes

himself mounts the pulpit.

Everyone bows their heads in prayer.

Darwin is immediately not listening.

He looks along the row of his children, standing dutifully

in a line between Charles and Emma.

George, aged 5, is studying the woodlice which are nesting

between the pages of his hymnal

Darwin, stands watching the play of light from the stained

glass window on his shoes. Then raises his head

Innes looks up sternly and sees the Darwin's head raised

among the sea of down-turned heads.

Their eyes meet briefly in a sort of challenge, and in that

moment, Darwin somehow knows with absolutely certainty that

religious faith has left him.

With a whispered word to the beadle standing next to him to

take the collection Darwin slips out from the pew and heads

off up the aisle.

He's intending to be quiet and subtle but the creaking

boards under his feet loudly announce his departure.

Innes raises his voice above the fusillade.

The congregation, not daring to raise their heads, watch

Darwin's sturdy walking shoes departing down the aisle.

The rise and fall of Innes's voice continues in the

background as Darwin walks out from the porch, emerging

from shadow into sunlight.

A summers day. He feels like a weight has been lifted.

The church beadle comes out behind him.

He heads off up the gravel path

The faint and Distant sound of church singing filters

through the misty woods. The black wet trunks of trees

catch the sunlight.

Frosty dew highlights Mistletoe and holly and dead bracken

and the sudden red flash of a robin.

Darwin cuts a strange dark angular figure, walking along

the narrow track a single step at a time.

He pauses breathing, and listens.

His quick eye catches the robin seizing a worm.

Further on. A pheasant breaks cover. A hare stands upright

in a clearing then bounds away.

Darwin looks down and takes another step, placing his feet

carefully, silently so as not to disturb the wildlife.

Cut to a different pair of much newer shoes in exactly the

same spot.

Darwin is ten years younger, pacing in the same, measured

way through summer woodland.

There's a noise behind him and he turns, finger to his lips

for silence.

Annie turns away from him and passes the sign down the line

of children: Etty, George, Betty and Franky, in decreasing

order of height.

Patting her and stroking her as the little sobs subside.

The weasel is dragging the dead rabbit back to its lair.

Despite herself the concept amuses Annie. Chest still

heaving with sobs - she dries her eyes and smiles at him

through her tears.

Piano music - Chopin - plays softly over as Charles and

Emma do the rounds of their large brood of children,

turning out lamps and kissing sleeping heads, taking a doll

from one sleeping child's embrace, a sword from another.

Shooing a cat and her kittens from the bedroom.

Darwin watches his wife, a sensuous figure, stooped over

the sleeping child, a lock of hair falling forwards as she

kisses her.

She's sound asleep. Finally Charles and Emma are alone

together in the blissfully silent house.

Emma smiles

He takes her hand and leads her to their bedroom.

Emma lies on a rug, her head is in Darwin's lap. She is

reading aloud from a new book of poems by Wordsworth.

She puts the book down

Darwin is watching Annie dancing in front of the surf ,

turning cartwheels - a wild dancing sprite of the sea,

oblivious to the cold, shouting and singing:

Later, Near the cliff, Darwin is "geologising"

He's excited, breathless and windswept, shouting over the

sound of the nearby surf as he clambers over the huge

assorted boulders pointing out the geological strata to his

kids who are more interested in clambering.

She runs to the top of a great fallen rock, spreads her

arms out, and yells to the sky.

Annie gives a shout and disappears head over heels.

In the rubble at the base of the rocks she has landed,

unhurt and quite by accident on a perfect specimen of a

fossilized trilobite.

The black box lies open with all its secrets strewn around

the office.

Stacks of paper - a stack for every chapter - are held down

with paperweights - a fossil, a skull, a specimen bottle.

Darwin squares a stack of blank paper between his hands,

then reaches for his pen.

Annie reaches for her pen.

Reverend Innes is giving the children their writing

lessons, according to "Mulhauser's technique"

The children assume the position as if in some militaristic

drill.

Grips are adjusted, pens are dipped.

The children lean back fractionally, so their elbows are

just back from the edge of the desk.

The Children start to copy the sentence which Innes has

written on the blackboard.

Annie reads the sentence and hesitates: "And on the seventh

day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested"

Darwin massages his cramped hand then takes a blank sheet

of notepaper.

A paper stirs in the breeze and he pins it with the nearest

object to hand - Annie's trilobite.

His eye rests on it a moment

CUT TO

The corrugated gray surface, greatly magnified.

The Darwin of ten years ago is examining the trilobite with

a watchmakers eyeglass.

There is a small mirror above his desk, angled so as to

give him a view of the path leading round from the front of

the house.

Innes appears briefly in it, preceded by Annie, who is

trotting to keep pace with him and crying.

Darwin, intent on his work, notices neither of them

From downstairs he hears the door knocker then Brodie's

voice, then Emma's overlapping with half-heard fragments of

Innes's Scottish brogue.

Darwin remains immersed, examining each detail of the

trilobite, comparing it with other specimens in books and

in boxes.

Annie sobs louder, incoherent in her grief.

Darwin finally focusses on the sounds, recognizes her

distress and gets up to investigate.

He reaches the top of the stairs. Annie is directly below

him, slumped, still sobbing at the foot of the stairs.

Emma has ushered Innes to the porch out of sight.

The front   door closes. Darwin comes downstairs

The conflicted expression has hardened, the furrows in

Darwin's brow etched deeper, as he dips his pen and begins

the second chapter.

From the floor below we can hear Emma practising a piece of

music on the piano - Chopin's revolutionary etude: a

rippling, brooding arpeggio running up and down the

keyboard, redolent of an angry sea.

Darwin's pen scratches doggedly over the paper.

In the bedroom, in his nightgown, Darwin scrubs the ink

stains off his fingers with a pumice stone.

Emma passes behind him, preparing for bed. He glances at

her in the mirror

Darwin sits at his desk, writing and editing, his hand

clamped on the pen.

A voice speaks from nowhere

Emma, passing the open door glimpses Darwin talking angrily

to himself as he writes.

The music continues, louder.

A frosty coating of dew covers the lawn.

Footprints lead to a strange wooden tower in the garden.

Parslow stands outside, shivering in the grey morning

light.

Darwin shouts from inside.

Parslow pulls a lever.

There's the sound of crashing water, a yell of pain from

inside the tower.

Ravens rise, calling, from the surrounding trees.

Darwin dips his pen, scores out some text from his previous

draft and writes again.

The music continues from downstairs, louder and more

insistent than before.

Emmas hands race back and forwards along the piano

keyboard.

Darwin's pen scratches across the pages, making a noise

like fingernails on a blackboard.

The music from downstairs seeming to drive into his skull

He speaks aloud the words he is writing, in an effort to

drown out the piano music.

Strange detailed drawings of barnacles are strewn across

his desk, seeming to change and transmute before his eyes.

He stops. His hand is shaking too much to write.

Darwin gets up abruptly from his desk.

Darwin stands naked, clutching to two hand rails for

support as a great tub of freezing water tilts and pours

its contents on top of him.

Darwin yells

Birds rush out from the dovecote

Darwin dips his pen and writes

The Revolutionary etude is continuous now - real or

imagined.

Surf crashes.

Underwater, among the swirling seaweed, fragile sea

creatures being torn this way and that by the raging surf

Annie screams and kicks her legs, overwhelmed by water in

some dark place.

Pull back to reveal:

A vision of hell:

The water is fire.

The barnacles are people.

The people are Annie, Emma and Darwin.

Darwin wakes in a panic and sits up in bed. He raises his

right arm and looks down at his inky writing hand

fluttering in the moonlight, like an organ with a will all

of its own

Emma is a sleep. There's a crucifix on the wall above her

bed. On the bedside table there's a bible.

The children are gathered around Emma who is reading a bed-

time story to them by lamplight.

Emma is in the centre of a circle of little attentive

faces.

She's aware of Darwin, standing in the darkened corridor

beyond the door, drawn to the cosy little group but unable

to join it.

She lets him be. Continues reading

The older girls Etty and Betty finish their prayers and

jump into bed in their night-gowns

Emma comes in to take away their lamp.

Emma turns out the light. In the darkness Etty says.

Emma returns to her bedside

In the bowels of Down House the house, we find Darwin

wrapped in wet towels sweating in front of the wood-burning

stove.

As he gazes into the leaping flames, Annie appears at his

shoulder.

No reply.

Darwin stands, legs apart in the water tower bracing

himself like a colossus against the full force of the

deluge.

The gardener, splitting logs, watches Darwin stagger from

the tower with a rug wrapped around him, and make his way

back to the house.

Darwin lowers himself into bed, inky and tousled. He seems

prematurely aged, crippled by the gruelling process of

writing the book.

As he lies there, unable to sleep lines of written text

seems to appear behind his closed eyes, or in the tangled

vines of the wallpaper.

Emma speaks from the other side of the bed.

Charles remains stubbornly silent, his hand fluttering over

the coverlet.

Fire flares in the grate as Darwin compares the skeletons

of various pigeons.

He starts a new Chapter: "changes under domestication"

Pigeons mate and coo in the dusty twilight.

Parslow picks up two of them, casually wrings their necks

and heads off with them to the skeletonizing shed.

Darwin Looks out of the study window, searching for

inspiration.

He sees Emma and the children getting into a coach with

their baggage.

Darwin sits at his desk.

He has written the chapter heading and nothing else.

Parslow knocks and looks in

Parslow leaves. Darwin addresses the empty room.

She will not come.

Annie dancing in the surf. One minute she is there and the

next she has vanished, lost among the churning waves.

Darwin leaps top his feet shouting

Raucous male laughter takes us to

The George and Dragon on a Saturday night. The air loud

with laughter and thick with pipe smoke.

Clodhoppers crowd the snug, many of them roaring drunk,

with their florid complexions, stained and broken teeth.

Darwin trying, to slip in discreetly is spied by a group of

locals who hail him and gather around him, wedging him into

a corner with their overloud loud talk and laughter.

The Thatcher waves them away as lesser talents.

Darwin takes a slug of whiskey

He is drinking in his office.

The clock strikes twelve. The page in front of him remains

stubbornly blank

Darwin is rising from his desk when he sees something move.

In one of the bottles on his desk, a fleshy marine specimen

seems to have come to life.

It writhes blindly in its bottle of formalin, making a

sound like a baby crying.

Darwin, recoiling in horror, pushes himself back from his

desk. The castors on his chair trundle back from his desk.

Behind him he hears a tapping and turns to see that all the

birds in his big glass display case of Galapagos finches

have started to beat against the inside the crowded glass

case. They flutter, frenzied, tapping with their beaks on

the inside of the glass, which shatters as...

One by one the bottled specimens explode, discharging their

contents onto the floor.

A lamp falls over. The room is filled with birds the floor

awash with formalin and broken glass.

The Study seems to tilt like the cabin of a ship in a storm

and.

Darwin wakes from the nightmare asleep at his desk, the

whiskey bottle a quarter empty, ink on his hands and his

shirt cuffs

He gets up and puts on his shoes.

The scullery maid, lighting the fire, looks round and sees

Darwin.

He walks past her without a word and heads out into the

garden.

Darwin heads across the lawn, takes a key from his belt and

opens the door of the skeletonizing shed.

In the grey light he takes in the corpses of doves from the

dovecote.

Some have been skinned, their pelts curing on frames, their

carcasses steeping in a buckets chemicals which remove the

flesh from the bones.

Previously he regarded this place as a sort of laboratory.

Now it seems a place of horror.

The door opens behind him. Its Parslow.

Darwin reaches into the dovecote and starts grabbing

pigeons at random, dragging them out and flinging them into

the air.

