<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

The Crying Game

The Crying Game

FADE IN:

EXT. CARNIVAL - DAY

A loudspeaker playing Percy Sledge's "When a Man Loves a

Woman," as we see a carnival in the distance - with a Ferris

Wheel turning round and round.

A black man is by a stall. On his arm is an Irish girl with

blond hair. The black man is drunk, and is tossing rings

around a bowling pin.

An attendant hands him the teddy bear. It looks ridiculous in

his huge hands. He gives it to the girl.

He puts his arm around her and drags her on.

He comes to a small canvas tent with a sign on it - TOILET.

He holds her hand.

Jody walks inside the canvas flap and vanishes from sight. We

can still see his hand, holding Jude's. She leans against the

canvas, looking bored.

She stands there, listening to the sound of him urinate. Her

eyes flick around the carnival. They settle on a tall dark-

haired man in a dark jacket. He nods.

He staggers out, buttoning up.

He goes to kiss her. She turns her head away.

She pulls him over toward the water.

Jody follows her, as she walks backward, drawing him on. He

moves his hips to a song as Jude leads him over the beach,

under a train trestle.

He sinks down on his knees toward her. She wraps her arms

around his neck and kisses him. Jody writhes on top of her,

fumbling with his belt. Jude cocks one eye upward. A shadow

falls across them.

CLOSE ON JODY, kissing her. A gun is put to his head. He

turns around, drunkenly.

The gun whacks him across the cheek and he falls sideways.

Jude scrambles to her feet and darts like an animal through a

field.

Jody feels his cheek. He can see her blond head vanishing

among the fields. He looks up and sees a group of men around

him. The tallest of them, Fergus, cocks the gun.

INT. CAR - DAY

A mini, driving down a country road. Two men in the front,

three in the back.

On the floor of the car Jody lies, with three pairs of feet

on top of him, a black bag over his head and the barrel of a

gun dangling close to his face. Fergus holds the gun. He is

smoking a cigarette. His movements are slow and somewhat

innocent.

EXT. SMALL FARMHOUSE - EVENING.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody pulled through and tied to a chair. Maguire, a small

lean man, talks to him through the hood.

Jody is motionless under the black hood.

He still says nothing.

All the men are drinking tea. The blond woman comes in with a

plate and some food on it.

Jody sits as still as a grave, saying nothing.

Late at night -- it is dark. The men are sleeping. Fergus is

sitting by a chair, gun in his hand, watching the prisoner.

Jude comes in, with a flashlight.

She moves over to him. She prods him in the legs with her

foot. He doesn't move. Then she lifts the hood ever so

slightly, to peer inside. Suddenly the man moves like

lightning, jerking his head down so the hood comes off,

throwing his body, tied to the chair, over Jude.

He pins her to the ground, his body bent with the chair. He

writhes on top of her in a grotesque parody of love. She is

screaming and the room is alive, each man awake, grabbing

guns, screaming.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus follows Jude out a back door, holding her by the arm.

She takes in huge gobs of air.

He touches her face.

She rubs her hand on his chest.

She sidles closer, coming on to him.

She puts her lips to his neck.

She doesn't answer. They embrace.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - MORNING.

A hot summer's day. There are tall hedges all around the

house. Fergus leads Jody, still bound and hooded, over toward

a greenhouse.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Dusty tomato plants and vines everywhere. Broken glass. The

sun pouring through. Fergus leads Jody over to a wrought iron

chair and sits him in it. He sits opposite, gun on his lap.

Fergus takes some sandwiches out of a brown paper bag. He

holds one out toward him.

Fergus walks over to him, lifts the hood up so his mouth is

revealed, and pushes the sandwich toward his lips. Jody eats,

slowly.

Fergus pushes the last crumbs of the sandwich toward Jody's

mouth.

Jody eats the last bits.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Jude makes her way from the door toward the greenhouse. She

is carrying a pot of tea and two cups.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

It is sweltering now in the greenhouse. CLOSE ON JODY'S

COWLED HEAD. The hood is drenched with sweat.

Jude comes into view.

Jude says nothing. Lays the tea on the ground.

Jude pours out the tea.

His breathing becomes labored.

Fergus gives her the gun.

Jody's head follows Fergus while he leaves.

Jude smiles, holding the gun on her lap.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Fergus enters. Maguire and the others. Maguire has a

newspaper, which has a headline regarding the kidnapping.

Maguire reads the paper.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Jude, drinking tea, looking at Jody sweating. Fergus enters.

He puts his arm casually around her.

She goes. Fergus walks to Jody and slowly takes the hood off.

Jody looks up at him, his face bathed in sweat. He breathes

in mighty gulps of air. He smiles.

Fergus smiles.

Fergus pours out a cup of tea and brings it to his lips.

Fergus drinks.

Fergus looks at him. Jody isn't smiling anymore. Fergus goes

back to his seat and drinks his tea. He fingers the gun on

his lap.

What makes you think that?

They're going to let that guy die. And

you're going to kill me.

They won't let him die.

You want to bet?

I'm not a gambling man.

And even if he doesn't die -- you can't

just let me loose.

Why can't we?

Not in your nature.

What do you know about my nature?

I'm talking about your people, not you.

What the fuck do you know about my

people?

Only that you're all tough undeluded

motherfuckers. And that it's not in your

nature to let me go.

Shut the fuck up, would you?

And you know the funny thing?

No, what's the funny thing?

I didn't even fancy her.

He looks at Fergus.

Fergus holds the gun to his face. He fishes inside Jody's

inside pocket.

Fergus's hand emerges with a wallet.

CLOSE ON THE WALLET. Credit cards, army identification

photograph.

Fergus takes out a picture. It is of Jody, in cricket whites,

smiling, holding a bat. Fergus smiles.

Fergus takes out another picture of Jody and of a beautiful

black woman, smiling.

Jody chuckles.

What the fuck am I doing here.

What the fuck were you doing here?

I got sent.

You could have said no.

Can't. Once I signed up.

Why did you sign up?

It was a job. So I get sent to the only

place in the world they call you nigger

to your face.

Shouldn't take it personally.

"Go back to your banana tree, nigger." No

use telling them I came from Tottenham.

And you play cricket?.

Best game in the world.

Ever see hurling?

That game where a bunch of paddies whack

sticks at each other?

Best game in the world.

Never.

The fastest.

Fergus looks at him.

He keeps looking at him.

Jody smiles.

EXT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus leads Jody outside, holding the gun against him.

He walks toward it, breathing heavily.

Fergus, in the dark, stands motionless, looking at him.

Fergus turns him around and unzips his fly.

Fergus takes Jody's penis out.

Jody takes two steps toward the wall.

Fergus holds his hands from behind, so Jody can lean forward.

Jody now pisses with immense relief

He shakes his body.

He steps back.

Fergus puts Jody's penis back in his pants and zips him up.

Fergus leads him hack toward the greenhouse.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus leads Jody back to his chair.

He begins to laugh.

Fergus begins to laugh, without knowing why.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Maguire, walking out of the house, woken by the sound of

laughter.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody, still laughing. Suddenly the hood is slammed back over

his head.

Maguire, standing there in the dark, looking at Fergus.

Fergus gets up slowly, walks toward the door.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus, walking toward the house. He looks back and sees the

figures of Maguire and Jody in the dark, in absolute silence.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus sleeping.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody sleeping. Maguire sitting with an Armalite in his hands,

watching him.

EXT. FARMHOUSE AND FIELDS - DAY

The sun coming up over the low hills around the farmhouse.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Fergus enters, with a tray and some breakfast. Maguire is

sitting where he sat before, stock-still.

Maguire shakes his head.

Maguire shakes his head.

He hands Maguire a plate. Jody stirs.

Maguire looks hard at him.

He rises, and drags Fergus out the door.

EXT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Maguire goes back to the house.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Jody sitting with the hood on again. Fergus enters.

Fergus says nothing. He takes a plate and brings it toward

Jody

Fergus lifts up Jody's hood to expose his mouth and begins to

feed him.

Fergus says nothing and keeps feeding him.

Fergus shakes his head and says nothing.

He eats. Fergus feeds himself, then feeds more to Jody.

Fergus says nothing.

Jody chuckles under his hood.

Fergus walks toward him and pulls off the hood. Jody smiles

up at him.

INT. GREENHOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON.

Both men dozing in the heat.

Fergus laughs.

Having two pints in the Rock.

Having a pint in the Metro, and Dil's

having a margarita.

Who's Dil?

My special friend.

Oh, yeah.

We got simple tastes, you and me.

The best.

But you fellas never get a break, do you?

Do you?

Oh, yes. We do a tour of duty and we're

finished. But you guys are never

finished, are you?

We don't look on it like that.

I've often wondered how you do it.

Depends on what you believe in.

What do you believe in?

That you guys shouldn't be here.

It's as simple as that?

Yes.

Jude enters.

She pulls the hood down over him.

She whacks him with a pistol.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody, sitting in the hood. Fergus lifts it a bit; Jody's

mouth, with blood now in his lips.

Fergus is moved. He can't reply.

Fergus walks toward him.

Their faces, close to each other as Fergus searches out her

picture.

The door opens. Maguire is there, with another.

Fergus turns toward him.

Fergus walks toward Maguire and the other man walks forward,

takes his seat. Fergus, unseen by Maguire, puts the wallet in

his pocket.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Maguire, Jude, Fergus, and the others.

Maguire lights a cigarette. Fergus looks at him and nods.

He turns back to Fergus. He puts his arm on Fergus's

shoulder.

Fergus leaves.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus takes his place in the chair beside Jody.

Jody begins to laugh under the hood. It turns into the sound

of crying.

The crying stops.

Fergus takes out a cigarette, lights it, and lifts up Jody's

hood so he can smoke.

Fergus watches him puff the cigarette, the hood just above

his lips. Jody coughs, but keeps the cigarette in his lips.

Fergus gently takes the cigarette from his mouth.

Fergus is silent; his eyes wet.

EXT. FIELDS - MORNING.

The farmhouse covered in mist. The sun coming through it.

EXT. GREENHOUSE - MORNING.

Maguire opens the door to the greenhouse and clicks the

chamber of his gun. Fergus has a gun in his hand. He checks

the chamber.

Fergus takes Jody, whose hands are still tied behind his

back, by the elbow.

Jody rises. Fergus leads him through the door, past Maguire.

Fergus turns with sudden fierceness.

He pulls Jody through the fields.

EXT. TREES - MORNING.

Fergus pushing Jody through a copse of trees, the gun at his

back.

Fergus pulls the hood off. Jody looks around him. He has a

cut lip where Jude struck him.

Fergus prods him on with the gun. Jody stumbles forward.

Fergus is all cold and businesslike.

Jody suddenly sprints, and, loosening the ties on his hands,

then freeing them, he is off like a hare. Fergus screams in

fury after him.

Fergus aims, then changes his mind and runs.

Fergus gains on him -- stretches his arm out -- but Jody

sprints ahead again -- as if he has been playing with him. He

laughs in exhilaration. Fergus pants behind him, wheezing,

almost laughing.

Jody runs, whipping through the trees -- always ahead of him.

Fergus grabs his shoulder and Jody shrugs it off, gaining on

him again.

And suddenly the trees give way. Jody turns, laughing, to

Fergus.

Fergus is panting, pointing the gun at Jody

And suddenly a Saracen tank whips around the corner, hits

Jody with the full of its fender. His body flies in the air

and bounces forward as another tank tries to grind to a halt

and the huge wheels grind over him.

Fergus, screaming, "No-!" He almost moves forward, then sees

soldiers spilling from the tank around the body. Fergus turns

and runs.

EXT. TREES - DAY

Fergus whipping through the trees, his body crouched low as

he runs.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Tinker sitting in the greenhouse. A helicopter screams into

view through the panes and automatic fire comes from it,

shattering every pane in seconds and tearing Tinker to bits.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Bullets whipping through every window, taking chunks from the

masonry, tearing the walls apart. Maguire, Jude, and the

others on the floor, scrambling for weapons.

EXT. TREES - DAY

Fergus, hearing the gunfire, runs through overhanging

branches till eventually he is hidden from sight.

EXT. CARNIVAL ON THE MONAGHAN BORDER - DAWN.

A forlorn-looking building over nondescript fields.

An old man wheels a bicycle slowly toward it; a rusty car

appears; and Fergus gets out of it.

INT. CARAVAN - DAY

The old man pouring whiskey into a teacup.

He pours Fergus more whiskey.

He looks at Fergus and lights a cigarette.

He puffs.

EXT. DUBLIN BAY - EVENING.

The ferry, churning into the sunset.

INT. BUILDING SITE - DAY

FADE UP into an elegant, empty Georgian room, covered in

clouds of dust. A figure among the clouds of dust, hacking at

a wall with a sledgehammer. It is Fergus, dressed in

laborer's overalls, covered in dust. He is knocking the

bricks from an outer wall. He works furiously and

relentlessly, like a machine.

We see the wall, with the hammer striking it. One brick falls

away, then another. Daylight pours through the clouds of dust

and the growing hole.

Fergus's face, as he works.

The hole. More bricks falling away. Through the clouds of

dust and the streams of daylight we now see a patch of green.

Fergus's face, working. His rhythm slows.

The hole. More bricks fall away. Then the hammer stops. The

dust begins to clear.

His face.

The jagged hole. The dust drifts across it, revealing a

cricket pitch, with tiny sticklike figures running on the

green.

EXT. HOSTEL - DAY

Fergus, returning from work, crosses the street, and enters

through a white door.

INT. HOSTEL - DAY

Fergus dressing. He puts on a cheap suit, like any country

boy in a big city. He takes Jody's wallet from the trousers

of his overalls. He flips it open, sees the picture of the

soldier and Dil. He puts it in the pocket of his suit.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Fergus walking down a street looking for an address. Some

distance down the street is a sign -- MILLIE'S UNISEX HAIR

SALON.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Fergus, standing as the crowds go by him, looking in the

window. He has the picture in his hand. We see Dil from his

point of view, then Fergus walks inside.

INT. HAIR SALON - DAY

Fergus enters. The door gives a loud ping.

She leaves the salon.

Dil checks her watch and stubs out a cigarette.

She gestures toward a chair. Fergus sits down. She comes

toward him and fiddles with his hair.

She pushes his head back into a basin behind him. She begins

to knead his hair in hot water and shampoo.

Fergus can't think of an answer. The hands with the purple

nails run over his scalp.

Fergus, sitting up. She begins to cut.

She imitates his accent saying it. Fergus laughs.

Dil raises Fergus's head up, with his new-cut hair and holds

a mirror up behind his head so he can see the back. He looks

like a young London stockbroker. The hair salon around them

is empty.

EXT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Fergus emerges from the shop. He takes one last look through

the window where Dil is taking off her smock, touching up her

hair, etc. It is as if she has forgotten all about him. He

walks off through the crowds and then ducks into a doorway.

The doorway of the shop. Dil comes out, dressed in a pair of

high heels, a very short skirt, different, more raunchy

clothes on her than we saw inside. She locks the glass door

and walks down the street, across the road, and into a pub

called the Metro. Fergus follows.

INT. METRO - EVENING.

Half full, with an after-work crowd. Dil makes her way

through it.

She sits down at the bar. Fergus comes toward the bar and

takes a seat.

Dil, looking at Fergus.

Fergus blushes. He buries himself in his drink.

Fergus throws his eyes toward her again. She has her face

turned away, but sees him in the mirror.

She eyes Fergus in the mirror.

The barman, with infinite weariness, approaches Fergus.

Fergus is about to talk when she pipes up.

The barman mixes it. She stares at the mirror, staring at

Fergus, who is trying to avoid her eyes. The barman hands her

the drink.

A burly man sits down beside her. He puts his hand on her

knee.

She slaps the hand away.

She turns back to Fergus and finds his seat empty.

EXT. METRO - NIGHT.

Fergus, standing across the road from the pub. He is

sweating. Dil comes out of the pub. She looks this way and

that, as if searching for Fergus. Fergus stands back into a

shadow.

Dave, the burly man, comes out. He grabs her by the elbow.

She shrugs him off. She walks off. Dave follows, grabs her by

the elbow again. The sense of an old argument. Dave suddenly

strikes her across the face with his open palm.

She leans her head against a wall. Dave then puts his arms

around her, consoles her.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT.

Dave walking, holding Dil by the arm. The street is

dilapidated, full of squats. They stop outside a door. Dil

opens the door with a key from her purse and they both walk

inside.

Fergus stands there, observing.

A light comes on in an upstairs room. Dil enters; we see her

shadow in silhouette behind the curtain and the shadow of

Dave coming in behind her. He begins to remove her blouse.

She stands absolutely still as he does so.

Fergus backs away, then walks off.

INT. HOSTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus, in bed. Fade to black as we see Jody as a bowler,

running in slow motion, toward the camera. He releases the

ball; we see Fergus in bed, breathing heavily.

INT. SITE - NEXT DAY

Fergus takes a break and watches the batsman hit a ball. He

imitates the batsman's motion with his sledgehammer. Then a

voice interrupts him.

Fergus turns. We see Tristram Deveroux, a young Sloane type

in a three-piece suit, whose house it is. Beside him is

Franknum, the cockney foreman.

Fergus resumes work.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

It is now crowded with people, black, white, punky and street

chic, a lot of leather All the women are heavily made-up.

Someone is singing from the tiny stage and rows of cheap

colored bulbs are flashing around it.

From the way Fergus walks through, it is obvious he has never

been here at night. He seems most out of place in his cheap

suit, making his way through the crowd to the bar.

AT THE BAR.

Fergus looks through the odd crowd, but can't find Dil. Col,

the barman, sees him and smiles.

Col pushes a colored cocktail with one of those Japanese

umbrellas toward him.

Fergus reaches for his wallet to pay, but Col interrupts.

Fergus tries to pretend he's familiar with the drink, and by

implication, whatever are the norms of the place. He lifts

the glass to his mouth, but the umbrella keeps getting in the

way.

Fergus takes out the umbrella. He holds it in one hand and

drinks with the other.

Fergus shrugs. He takes out a cigarette. A guy in leather to

his left smiles at him.

The barman looks up toward the stage.

THE JUKEBOX.

A hand presses a button. The needle selects a disk. A song by

Dave Berry, "The Crying Game."

AT THE BAR.

Fergus looks up. Close-up of Dil's hand, as music begins,

making movements to the music. We see Dil, standing on a

stage, swaying slightly. She seems a little drunk. She mimes

to the song. She mouths the words so perfectly and the voice

on the song is so feminine that there is no way of knowing

who is doing the singing. She does all sorts of strange

movements, as if she is drawing moonbeams with her hands.

The crowd seems to know this act. They cheer, whether out of

approval or derision we can't be sure.

Fergus watching.

Dil singing, noticing him. She comes to the end of the song.

The crowd cheers.

Fergus, watching her make her way through the crowded bar,

toward him.

She looks at Fergus directly, sits down next to him.

Fergus says nothing. He shrugs.

Col shrugs.

The burly man comes up to her.

He suddenly jerks her roughly off the stool, spilling her

drink.

He drags her through the crowd. In the mirror, Fergus watches

them go. The barman eyes him.

Fergus suddenly stands and makes his way to the door.

EXT. PUB - NIGHT.

Fergus comes out. A black bouncer is there, but there is no

sign of Dil. He walks a few yards and hears voices down an

alley. He looks up it.

P0V - ALLEY.

We see Dil pushing Dave away. He grabs her, turns her

roughly.

She beats his arms away. Money falls on the ground. She

staggers away from him. He picks up the money, then runs

after her.

He tries to pull her back.

They both bump into Fergus, who just stands there and doesn't

move an inch. She smiles.

He holds it up to show her.

Dave eyes Fergus. Fergus grabs his wrists and upends him on

the ground.

Fergus puts his foot on Dave's neck.

Dave grabs for her ankle. She kicks his hand away. Fergus

presses down his foot. He looks to Dil.

Fergus presses his foot.

She bends low to Dave.

But his voice is softer. Fergus removes his foot. Dil grabs

his arm.

She draws him away.

EXT. METRO - NIGHT.

They walk out of the alley.

Fergus looks back. Dave is rising.

EXT. STAIRCASE OUTSIDE DIL'S FLAT

Fergus and Dil climb slowly upstairs.

There is a movement lower down the staircase. We see Dave,

holding his neck.

Dil leans close to Fergus.

She tilts up her face. Fergus kisses her, tenderly.

She goes in and closes the door. Fergus stands and looks down

at Dave, who turns to leave.

EXT. HAIR SALON - DAY

Dil walks out of the salon, smiling, and walks toward Fergus.

Fergus takes a bunch of flowers from behind his back. She

holds them, with theatrical feeling.

She laughs and leans toward him and kisses him in a

classically old-fashioned way. The girls inside the salon

pull back a curtain, and they all clap.

She takes his arm and walks off with him.

INT. INDIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT.

Fergus and Dil looking at their menus. A waiter places drinks

on their table, then leaves.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT.

They are walking in an alleyway toward her house.

And suddenly a car drives very fast toward them, headlights

on. Fergus pulls her into a doorway to avoid it.

The car continues down the road, stops, and then screeches

off.

She looks down toward where the car has pulled away.

EXT. DIL'S FLAT.

A car pulls up behind Dil and Fergus.

She touches his cheek.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

Dil comes in in the darkness. Fergus stands like a shadow in

the doorway. The light comes on; she takes off her raincoat.

Fergus enters slowly. He looks around the room; there is an

exaggerated femininity about everything in it.

She goes into a small kitchen. Fergus looks at the

mantelpiece and sees a picture of Jody. The camera tracks

into the soldier's smiling face. Then into Fergus's face. His

reverie is broken by the sound of a voice outside -- Dave's.

She comes through with two drinks.

She opens the window door, and we see Dave on the street, in

a neck brace.

She goes back into the room and begins taking things up.

She flings things down: men's clothes, leather trousers, a

suitcase, a teddy bear.

Fergus looks to the man down in the street, a parody of

rejection with his things in his arms.

Dil grabs a large goldfish bowl and flings it down. The bowl

breaks to bits on the pavement. Goldfish thrash around in the

street.

He tries to pick up the flapping fish in his hands.

Upstairs, Dil closes the window shut.

Fergus stands as Dil hands him a glass.

Fergus walks past the photograph and sits down. He looks from

her to the picture.

He nods toward the picture. She looks down into her drink.

And they fall into one another's arms. She stretches up with

her whole body over him. They grow suddenly and violently

passionate.

They fall into the cushions of the couch onto the floor. The

photograph above them seems to smile. He draws up her dress

with his hands. She suddenly pulls away.

She comes up toward him once more. She puts her mouth close

to his ear.

She opens the buttons on his shirt and her mouth travels down

his chest. Fergus tries to draw her up toward him, but her

hand reaches up to his mouth and presses his head back while

her other hand undoes his pants. She kisses his stomach; her

mouth moves down his body. Fergus stares at the picture of

Jody. Jody's eyes seem to burn through him. Dil raises her

head and kisses his mouth. There are tears in his eyes.

She sits in front of the mirror.

Fergus gets up and stands behind her, gently pushes the hair

from her face.

She embraces him.

She sits back down in front of the mirror. Fergus leaves. She

reapplies her lipstick.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

Singer in a blue dress. Dil and Fergus by the bar. Both

drinking drinks with umbrellas. Dave comes up behind them

with his neck brace.

Fergus nods. He stands. Dave steps two feet back.

Fergus takes Dil's arm.

The woman is singing.

As they circle, people begin to look at them admiringly. Dil

holds her cheek close to his.

Dil doesn't answer. Looks at him out of the corner of her

eye.

She draws back and looks at him.

She dances closer.

In the bar, people singing along with the music. Col sings.

Dave sitting at the bar, sulking.

She puts her cheek against his. Dave, at the bar, slams his

drink down.

Dave stands up to leave. On the stage the act finishes. Dil

draws Fergus back to the bar.

AT THE BAR.

Col, the barman, pours her drink.

Col pours and smiles.

He drinks. He grimaces. She throws it back in one.

She takes the bottle herself and fills their glasses. She

slams it back. He sips.

She tilts his glass back. He swallows it in one.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

She enters; Fergus walks in slowly. He looks from the cricket

whites that are hanging up behind a curtain to the

photographs.

She turns toward him and undoes her hair. It falls around her

shoulders.

Fergus runs his hand down her throat.

She draws him behind a curtain toward the bed, pulls him

down. They kiss passionately.

She walks into the bathroom. Fergus lies there, looking at

the picture, listening to the sound of running water. She

comes out then, dressed in a silk kimono. She looks

extraordinarily beautiful.

He reaches out his hand and grasps hers. He draws her toward

him. He begins to kiss her face and neck.

She murmurs no. His hands slip the wrap down from her

shoulders.

CLOSE ON HIS HANDS, traveling down her neck, in the darkness.

Then the hands stop. The kimono falls to the floor gently,

with a whisper. The camera travels with it, and we see, in a

close-up, that she is a man.

Fergus sits there, frozen, staring at her.

Fergus says nothing.

She gives a strange little laugh, then reaches out to touch

him. Fergus smacks the hand away.

He gets up and runs to the bathroom. She grabs his feet.

He kicks her away. He runs into the bathroom and vomits into

the tub.

She crouches on the floor.

He retches again.

She lights a cigarette.

Fergus runs the taps. He washes his face, rinses his mouth.

Fergus slams the door shut. She is sitting on the couch, the

kimono round her once more, looking very much like a woman. A

trace of blood on her mouth.

Fergus comes out of the bathroom.

She looks up. Some hope in her face.

And he makes to go. She grabs him to stop him.

He pulls away from her. She falls to the floor.

He drags himself away and runs down the stairs.

INT. FERGUS'S FLAT

Fergus in bed. Flash to shot of blackness, Jody grinning in

cricket whites, throwing the ball up and down in his hand.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

The place is hopping. Fergus enters. He now sees it as he

should have seen it the first night -- as a transvestite bar.

He makes his way through the crowds. All the women too-

heavily made-up. Some beautifully sleek young things he looks

at he realizes are young men. He makes his way to the bar

where Dil is sitting, nursing a drink with an umbrella in it.

Her face is bruised. She is wearing dark glasses.

As he walks toward her she sees him in the mirror. She talks

to Col the barman.

Fergus sits. Col turns to him.

There is a tear running down her cheek, under the dark

glasses.

Fergus touches her arm.

She whips her arm away.

She walks into the crowd, toward the door.

Fergus leaves.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT.

Fergus, walking outside Dil's place. The blinds in her room

are down and the light is on inside. We see her outline,

pacing up and down behind the blinds, smoking a cigarette. We

hear the song "The Crying Game."

Fergus stands beneath her doorway, scribbles a note, and

sticks it in the letter box.

EXT. CRICKET PITCH - DAY

A man removes a large number six from a huge scoreboard with

a pole and replaces it with a number nine.

Below the scoreboard we can see Dil walking across a lawn

toward the building where Fergus is working.

INT. SITE - DAY

Fergus, fitting a new window into the finished wall. On the

pitch we see the cricketers, distorted through the moving

glass of the window. Across the pitch Dil walks, with a lunch

basket in her hand, dressed in a very short skirt with high

heels. As she approaches the site a chorus of whistles breaks

out.

Fergus, hearing the whistling, stares out. He sees Dil moving

toward the site. He drops the window and the glass shatters.

As the whistles continue, we see Dil in the site's lift,

which rises up. We see Deveroux and Franknum climbing up a

ladder toward Fergus .

Through this conversation Fergus can hear the chorus of wolf

whistles increasing. He looks out the gap where the window

should be and sees Dil in the lift. The laborers whistle at

her, looking up her skirt, etc.

She passes by a gap in the wall and blows a kiss at him.

Fergus walks out of the room.

Fergus walks round the scaffolding. Dil sees him and waves,

sits on some bricks and opens the hamper.

She is acting bright and businesslike, like any wife. She is

wearing dark glasses to cover the bruise on her face. She

pecks him on the cheek.

Fergus smiles in spite of himself.

She takes out a thermos and pours him some tea.

She hands him a neatly cut sandwich.

She lowers her head.

He removes her glasses and looks at her moist eyes.

Then he hears a voice behind him.

Fergus looks from Dil to Deveroux.

Fergus stands up suddenly. He speaks quietly.

Deveroux stares, suddenly chilled.

Deveroux says nothing. Fergus looks down to Dil.

He holds out his arm. Dil gathers up her things and takes it.

Her face is wreathed in a smile.

Fergus walks her down the scaffolding ramp.

Dil and Fergus descend from the site in the lift.

The lift stops with a thud.

She leans forward and kisses him. Fergus hears a wail of

catcalls behind him. He watches Dil go as the lift takes him

back up to the site.

EXT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Fergus, outside the hair salon. Dil, inside, is throwing off

her smock and walking toward him. All the girls are smiling.

Fergus looks from Dil to the girls as they approach.

She takes his arm as they walk off.

Fergus hears a car following them, and turns around to look.

They reach her door. The car stops.

Fergus kisses her. He looks at her open lips as if in

disbelief at himself.

She goes inside.

INT. HOSTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus walks into the room and turns on a small desk-light.

Then he hears a voice.

He sees Jude sitting in the corner. Her hair is now dark

brown.

He stares at her, says nothing.

She walks round the room.

She lies down on the bed beside him, takes off a black

leather glove, and puts her hand on his crotch.

He takes her hand away.

He says nothing.

She looks at him hard. He looks away.

He leaps up from the bed.

She brings her lips close to his so they touch.

He grabs her hair and pulls her head back.

She pulls a gun and sticks it between his teeth.

Fergus stares at her. Then says quietly:

She kisses him briefly, with the gun at his temple.

She goes. Fergus stands in the darkness.

EXT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Fergus, walking toward the hair salon, flowers in his hand.

He stands outside watching, the flowers behind his back. Then

the chair turns and we see it is Jude.

Fergus freezes. He sees Jude looking at him, smiling

brightly, then talking back to Dil

INT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Jude, turning in the chair.

INT. INDIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT.

She smiles brightly at something behind Fergus. He turns and

sees Jude is there. Fergus stands, suddenly.

He throws some money on the table, grabs her arm, and frog-

marches her out.

As they pass Jude, she smiles.

EXT. INDIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT.

Outside the restaurant. Fergus marches Dil away.

They pass out of shot. In the background we see Jude rising.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

Dil and Fergus making their way to their seats at the bar.

A figure sitting down at the bar. It is Jude.

She leaves. Dil watches her go.

She looks at Col

There are tears in her eyes. She stands.

She staggers out of the pub. Fergus sits there. There is an

expression in Col's eyes that makes Fergus feel very, very

small.

But Fergus rises and walks out.

EXT. METRO - NIGHT.

A figure standing down the alleyway, smoking. Fergus looks

toward it, but Jude is standing there, waiting.

Jude grabs his arm.

She draws him down an alley where the same car is waiting.

They get inside.

ANOTHER CAR - BY THE PUB.

Dil, sitting inside a taxi watching Fergus and Jude getting

in the car.

INT. CAR - NIGHT.

In the moving car. Jude is driving, Maguire next to her.

Fergus sits in the back.

Maguire stubs his cigarette out on Fergus's hand, then whacks

him on the teeth with his closed fist.

Jude drives. Fergus looks through the back window at the

street outside.

EXT. REGENCY SQUARE - NIGHT.

The car draws to a halt in a sedate square. Several doors

down is the entrance to what looks like a sedate conservative

club.

In the car, Maguire turns off the engine. He nods toward the

building.

He nods toward a car, a Daimler, parked some distance away.

Fergus looks from the window to the car.

Jude turns around to look at him.

Jude and Fergus get out of the car. They walk down the

street, down from the brothel-cum-club, where there is a cafe-

bar with some tables outside.

EXT. REGENCY SQUARE - NIGHT.

Fergus and Jude, crossing the street.

They take their seats by the tables. We can see the brothel

down the way.

She checks her watch. Fergus is sweating.

Down by the brothel, the door swings open.

Fergus walks like any pedestrian down toward the brothel.

There is an old, portly gent in a City suit emerging from it.

The car by the pavement kicks into action and the door opens.

Fergus quickens his pace.

Jude, by the cafe, watches. Fergus, walking.

The gent makes his way, with gout-ridden slowness, across the

pavement, through the passersby, toward the car.

A burly security man emerging from the car, walking toward

the old gent.

Fergus reaches the car just before he does, and passes

between him and the open door. The old gent's stomach brushes

Fergus's elbow.

Fergus walks on.

Jude, from the cafe, watches -- Fergus walking on, the old

man being eased with painstaking care inside the Daimler.

Then the door closing and the Daimler pulling off.

When the Daimler has passed Fergus, he turns around and walks

back.

Jude smiles and leaps up as he approaches.

Jude begins to walk away.

She walks off, crosses the road to Maguire, in the car.

Fergus turns around to see Dil in front of the cafe. She goes

inside; he follows.

She downs a drink and motions for another. She seems high.

There are tears streaming down her face. He takes his hand

and begins to wipe her face.

She sits down; he joins her.

He wipes the tears from her face with a tissue then dabs the

tissue in her drink and wipes some more.

Dil's face, staring at him.

She allows herself to be led out.

EXT. HAIR SALON - NIGHT.

Dil and Fergus walking. Fergus stops her by the window.

They walk inside.

INT. HAIR SALON - NIGHT.

Dil and Fergus standing in the darkness.

He sits her down in one of the chairs.

Dil nods.

Fergus takes up a scissors to snip at her hair. Her head

leaps back.

She stares at him.

She takes a breath.

Fergus begins to cut.

CLOSE-UP ON DlL'S FACE as her hair is shorn. Tears stream

down her cheeks.

But he keeps cutting. He gives Dil a short, cropped military

cut like Jody's.

She looks in the mirror at it in the dark.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

Dil enters, with her new haircut. She goes to turn on the

light. He stops her hand.

She looks at her hand on his.

Her fingers close around his.

She brings her lips to his neck. He lets them stay there. His

hands travel up to her blouse. He begins to undo the buttons.

Slowly the blouse slips down, exposing her male torso. She

falls down to her knees and tugs at his belt.

He raises her to her feet and leads her toward the bed. She

stretches languorously down on it.

He unzips her skirt slowly, and draws it off. She turns on

the bed sexily, her face to the mattress. She is wearing

suspender-belts underneath her skirt.

But Fergus stands and walks quietly over to the wardrobe

where the soldier's things are. Dil on the bed, slowly turns.

We see Fergus from her point of view, coming toward her with

Jody's white cricket shirt, glowing eerily in the dark.

Fergus draws her slowly up to a standing position.

He wraps the shirt around her.

She kisses him.

EXT. SMALL HOTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus leading Dil, dressed in Jody's cricket clothes, down

the street and inside.

INT. SMALL HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT.

From above, we see the figures of Fergus and Dil, sleeping on

a double bed, both fully clothed. Fergus smokes, then puts

out the cigarette.

Time lapse. The light gradually fills the room. Fergus wakes.

Looks at the bedside clock, and very gingerly rises, puts on

his coat, and walks out.

EXT. SITE - EVENING.

A car pulls up at the site. Jude gets out. She has a satchel

in her hand.

INT. SITE - EVENING.

Fergus looking down a ladder-staircase at Jude.

Fergus climbs down a ladder to Jude; she hands him something

from the bag.

She kisses him. Fergus looks at her expressionlessly.

Fergus opens what Jude has given him -- looking inside. There

is a gun wrapped in an oilcloth.

INT. SMALL HOTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus enters. The room is empty. He calls.

No reply. He runs outside.

EXT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

Fergus looks up at her building, but the lights are off in

her flat. The sound of feet behind him. He turns and sees Dil

walking toward him, a bottle in her hand. He runs toward her.

They are tussling in the darkness of the park. She is very

drunk.

He takes her arm.

Fergus and Dil, on the stairs up to Dil's flat.

Fergus looks at her.

And she suddenly faints into his arms. As if on cue.

There is no response. He shakes her.

Still no response. He grows alarmed. He slaps her cheek. She

opens her eyes slowly.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

He walks in holding her. Leans her against the wall, then

goes to the window to check the street outside.

She takes a large slug from a bottle of whiskey.

She points weakly to a cabinet through the open door of the

bathroom.

He goes and gets the pills.

She takes a handful of pills. She drinks from the whiskey

bottle.

She walks around the room, drinking, then sits down.

She looks at the picture of Jody. Then she looks at Fergus.

She stares straight ahead, the bottle clutched in her hands

between her knees.

Fergus walks slowly toward the door.

She looks at him, standing up. Something incredibly

attractive about her.

He walks slowly toward her. He kisses her, on the lips.

We see the photograph with the soldier's smiling face. Fergus

looks from it to her. She seems to be in a sweet narcotic

haze. She reaches out her hand and strokes his.

Fergus sits down on the bed. Dil is lying back on it.

She still strokes his hand. Her voice is dreamily slurred,

her eyes far away.

Dil smiles woozily.

She is not rational. She is smiling, far away somewhere.

She woozily tries to hit him round the face.

Dil raises an unsteady hand and points it at him.

He strokes her cheek. She says very slowly and sleepily

Her eyes close. She falls into a deep sleep. Fergus looks

down at her, almost fondly.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - MORNING.

They are lying on the bed together, fully clothed. Dil wakes.

She rises very quietly and goes to his coat, thrown across a

chair. She searches through the pockets and takes out the

gun.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING.

Jude in bed. An alarm sounds; she reaches to turn it off.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Dil takes several silk stockings out of a drawer and ties

them very securely to each corner of the brass bed. She ties

them round both of Fergus's feet, very gently, so as not to

wake him.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING.

Jude, in front of a mirror, getting ready.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

She draws one of Fergus's hands up, very gingerly, and ties

that securely to the upright. She ties the other and is

drawing it upward when he wakes. She jerks the silk stocking

so it is secure.

Dil speaks unnaturally quietly.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING.

Jude, fully dressed. She takes a gun from under the bed and

slips it in her handbag.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - MORNING.

Dil crouching beside Fergus, his gun in her hand.

Fergus, staring at her. He tries to pull on the bindings.

She stands up, still pointing the gun at Fergus.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Jude on the street. Maguire's car pulls up rapidly and she

gets inside.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

She looks at him, tears in her eyes.

He drags at his bindings.

EXT. STREET BY BROTHEL - DAY

The figure of the judge in the window. Outline of a woman.

Jude and Maguire are in the car, parked across the street.

They look toward a paper seller.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus pulls furiously at his bindings.

IN THE CAR. OUTSIDE BROTHEL.

He drives off.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus collapsed back on the bed, exhausted.

EXT. STREET BY BROTHEL - DAY

Maguire's car driving round once more. No sign of Fergus.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus strains and roars from the bed.

MAGUIRE'S POINT OF VIEW -- the brothel door opening. The

elderly judge comes out. The car with his security men guns

up.

He grabs it from her pocket. Throws open the door and runs

across the street. Jude dives into the driver's seat.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus, pulling at his bindings.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE BROTHEL.

The judge walking toward the open door of the car, held open

by his goon. Maguire, running toward him, gun in hand. The

goon sees him. Maguire shoots as he runs. Once, twice, three

times, four. The judge falls. The goon, hit in the arm, pulls

an Uzi and returns fire. Maguire hit, still shooting. Other

goons tear from the car. Mayhem, screaming. Jude hits the

pedal on her car and screeches off. Maguire, dead.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - DAY

Dil dressed in the soldier's cricket clothes. She looks like

a sweet little boy. She places a cassette in the tape deck --

"The Crying Game" song. She comes to the bed, and points the

gun at Fergus's head.

She begins to cry and lays the gun gently on his chest.

She pulls on his bindings to release him.

EXT. STREET.

Two police cars, sirens wailing.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Dil's face, close to Fergus's, as the stockings that bound

his hands are nearly undone.

His arm is free. He strokes her hair.

She shudders with weeping. The music of the song plays in the

background.

Jude walking through the open door, arms extended, holding a

gun.

Dil rises from the bed and points her gun at Jude.

Dil fires, hits Jude. Jude falls and is writhing on the

floor.

Dil walks closer, holding the gun and pointing it at Jude.

Jude, on the floor, reaches for her gun. Manages to grab it.

Dil shoots again, like a child, playing with a toy. She hits

Jude in her gun shoulder. Jude spins one way, the gun the

other.

Fergus screams

As she raises the gun, Dil shoots her repeatedly, saying:

Fergus screams from the bed. He rips free his other arm. Dil

shoots Jude in the throat, and she falls dead, covered in

blood. Dil turns the gun on Fergus.

Dil points the gun at him, squeezing on the trigger. Then she

stops.

She looks at the picture; walks over and sits down in front

of it.

She raises the gun and places it in her mouth. Fergus takes

it gently from her mouth and places it on the table. He lifts

her up by the shoulders.

He leads her out the door. Fergus goes back into the room,

past Jude's body. Looks out the window to where he can see

Dil staggering down the street, through the crowds that have

gathered. The wail of police sirens coming closer. He watches

Dil run off, with her funny walk. Then looks down and sees

the cop cars pushing through the knot of people around the

house. He picks up the gun, wipes it with a rag to remove

Dil's fingerprints. He turns to the picture of the soldier;

talks to it.

He sits in the chair by the window, waiting.

INT. PRISON VISITING ROOM - DAY

FADE UP to reveal a large interior, with light streaming in

the windows. Large barred doors open and a group of women

come through, with parcels, children in tow, etc. Among them

is Dil, looking resplendent. She walks past the rows of

convicts with their families, up to a glass cage, where

Fergus sits, waiting.

She shakes her head.

CAMERA PULLS BACK, and as Fergus tells the story of the

scorpion and the frog, the music comes up -- "Stand By Your

Man."

