Dead Poets Society: Final Script

INT. WELTON ACADEMY HALLWAY - DAY

A young boy, dressed in a school uniform and cap, fidgets as his mother

adjusts his tie.

A student opens up a case and removes a set of bagpipes. The young

boy and his brother line up for a photograph

The young boy blinks as the flash goes off.

An old man lights a single candle. A teacher goes over the old

man's duties.

The various boys, including NEIL, KNOX, and CAMERON, line up holding

banners. Ahead of them is the old man, followed by the boy with the

bagpipes with the two youngest boys at the front.

The boys hoist the banners and the bagpipes begin to play loudly. The

small group marches out of the room and down a set of stairs into a

church. The pews are filled with students and parents while the

teachers, all dressed in robes, are seated at the front of the church

behind the headmaster.

The boys break off to either side at the front of the church. The

bagpipes cease and the headmaster, MR. NOLAN, walks over to the old

man carrying the candle.

An organ begins to play as the old man goes forward with shaking hands

to the young boys in the front pew. Each boy is holding a candle and

he bends over to light the first one. Each boy in turn lights the

candle of the boy next to him.

All throughout the pews, uniformed boys rise to their feet. TODD, who

is not wearing a uniform, is urged by his father to stand with them.

The boys quickly return to their seats.

Mr. Nolan soaks up the applause from the audience.

The crowd applauds once again.

EXT. SCHOOL GROUNDS - DAY

The school lawn is a filled with luggage, students, and parents mulling

about in every direction.

INT CHURCH ENTRANCE - DAY

Mr Nolan stands by the entrance, speaking with each family as they leave.

Todd and his parents leave while others file past Mr. Nolan.

MR PERRY approaches with his son Neil. He shakes Mr. Nolan's hand.

EXT SCHOOL GROUNDS - DAY

A bell tolls. Parents begin wishing their boys farewell.

Another boy hugs his mother.

EXT SCHOOL GROUNDS - DAY

Neil emerges from a building and sees Todd.

He shakes Todd's hand.

INT DORMATORY - DAY

DR. HAGER is standing in his room doorway while SPAZ and his father are

going over some last minute precautions over the boy's allergies. Spaz's

father hands Hager various bottles.

Dr. Hager takes the bottles and quickly backs into his room, shutting

the door.

Spaz's father tries to say something else to Dr. Hager but realizes he

has already gone.

INT HALLWAY - DAY

Neil pushes his way through a crowd of boys, carrying two suitcases. As

he enters his room, Knox quickly passes by.

Cameron comes by and leans against the doorway.

He begins laughing when he notices Todd coming into the room.

Cameron quickly leaves. Neil tries to keep from laughing as Todd enters

the room and sets his luggage down on his bed.

He pulls some papers from his blazer pocket and playfully whacks Todd

across the back with it.

CHARLIE comes to the door with a smug expression on his face. Knox and

MEEKS are close behind him. He points at Neil

The boys enter the room. Charlie turns around and looks at Meeks who is

just entering.

Charlie makes himself comfortable on Neil's bed and lights up a cigarette.

Meanwhile, Todd is by his bed unpacking his luggage.

Meeks seems to notice Todd for the first time.

Neil quickly gets up from his spot by the window.

Todd turns around and shakes hands with Meeks.

Charlie continues to lay on the bed, looking smug. Knox extends a hand.

Charlie begins coughing. There is a knock at the door. Charlie quickly

stamps out his cigarette on the floor and Neil tries to wave the smoke

from the air.

The door opens and Mr. Perry walks into the room. Neil quickly rises from

the window.

The other boys stand up when he enters.

Mr. Perry walks towards the door and Neil hesitantly follows. Mr. Perry

pauses by the door and smiles to the other boys.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

The smile has gone from Mr. Perry's face. He grabs a hold of Neil's arm.

After you've finished medical school and you're on your own, then you

can do as you damn well please. But until then, you do as I tell you.

Is that clear?

Mr. Perry slaps his son on the shoulder and leaves. Neil leans his head

back against the wall as the other boys emerge from the room.

Todd looks up from his desk where he is setting his alarm clock.

EXT. FIELDS - DAY

A clock bell chimes five o'clock. Enormous flocks of birds, apparently

disturbed by the noise, take to the sky.

INT. STAIRCASE - DAY

The sound of squawking birds merges into the sound of noisy boys as they

descend the stairs in a long spiralling line.

MR. MCALLISTER tries to make it upstairs against the steady stream.

INT CHEMISTRY LAB - DAY

A teacher walks up and down the aisles, handing out books.

The students let out a collective groan.

INT. LATIN CLASSROOM - DAY

Mr. McAllister paces back and forth in front of the blackboard and gets

the students to repeat everything he says.

INT. MATH CLASSROOM - DAY

Dr. Hager walks up the classroom aisles with his arms behind his back.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Students enter Keating's classroom, talking and acting up. Keating

glances out from his room off to one side.

Spaz turns around in time to be hit by a ball of crumpled up paper

while Cameron smacks him on the shoulder.

The students quickly quiet down as Keating emerges from the other room,

whistling the 1812 Overture. He walks up the length of the classroom and

out the door without a word. The students look around at one another,

uncertain of what to do. Keating pokes his head back in the doorway.

He gestures them to follow and the students, after some hesitation, grab

their books and follow Keating out into the main entranceway.

INT. ENTRANCEWAY - DAY

Keating stands before the school's trophy cabinets and waits until all

the boys arrive.

Todd looks up as if he knows the answer, but says nothing. Spaz blows his

nose a little too close to Meeks for his liking.

The students laugh slightly.

The boys laugh once again, while Cameron, obviously trying to write all

this down, looks around confusedly. Keating looks down at papers in his

hand.

Pitts raises his hand while everyone around him snickers.

Mr. Pitts, would you open your hymnal to page 542 and read the first

stanza of the poem you find there?

Meeks immediately puts his hand up.

Keating slams his hand down on an imaginary buzzer.

Keating turns towards the trophy cases, filled with trophies, footballs,

and team pictures.

The students slowly gather round the cases and Keating moves behind them.

The boys lean in and Keating hovers over Cameron's shoulder.

Cameron looks over his shoulder with an aggravated expression on his face.

The boys stare at the faces in the cabinet in silence.

EXT. SCHOOL STEPS - DAY

The boys emerge from the school, loaded down with numerous books.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - EVENING

A coach sticks his head around the corner into the room.

Meeks emerges from the showers, drying himself off.

Neil approaches Todd, who's been sitting by the window staring down at the

floor. Neil snaps his fingers to get Todd's attention.

INT. TODD'S ROOM - EVENING

Todd is seated at his desk. He scrawls "CARPE DIEM" across a blank page

of his notebook. He looks at it for a few moments before crumpling it up

and opening up his Chemistry book.

INT. ENTRANCEWAY - NIGHT

Hager comes down the stairs. Knox is looking at one of the old class photos

on the walls.

Knox reluctantly follows after Dr. Hager.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

The car leaves Welton and drives towards the Danburry's house.

INT / EXT DANBURRY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The doorbell rings.

The door opens and Knox is awe-struck by the beautiful girl (CHRIS) who

has answered the door.

Knox manages to break out of his daze.

Chris begins to laugh as Mrs. Danburry arrives behind her.

Knox enters the house, his mind still hung up on Chris as MR DANBURRY

comes out of the living room to meet him.

INT. STUDENT LOUNGE - NIGHT

Several students are throwing darts at a small rubber skeleton hanging

from the bulletin board. Various students are studying and playing games.

Meeks and Pitts are sitting at one table working on their "hi-fi system".

Meeks is waving an antenna around with no luck. Pitts points out to him

that he forgot to plug it in. Neil, Cameron, and Charlie are working on

their trig homework.

Charlie enters the room and closes the door behind him, leaning up

against it heavily.

He leaves the door and sits down with the other boys.

The radio Meeks and Pitts were working on begins letting out a high

pitched hum.

Mr. Hager walks into the room.

The students quickly pack up their gear and prepare to leave. Pitts tries

to hide the radio in his lap. Charlie leans in close to Knox.

Meeks holds up the antenna as if demonstrating it.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Keating sits at his desk at the front of the classroom and opens up one

of his books.

Keating gets up from his desk and prepares to draw on the chalk board.

Keating draws a corresponding graph on the board and the students

dutifully copy it down.

Neil sets the book down and takes off his glasses. The student sitting

across from him is discretely trying to eat. Keating turns away from

the chalkboard with a smile.

Cameron looks down at the graph he copied into his notes and quickly

scribbles it out.

Charlie suddenly appear to become interested in the class.

The students look at Keating as if he has just gone mad.

Charlie looks around at the others. He then looks down at his own notes,

which consists of drawing breasts.

Charlie rips the page out and holds it up.

Meeks looks around reluctantly and then finally begins tearing out pages.

Keating sees Cameron still hesitating.

Keating goes over to his room. Cameron turns around to Neil.

Neil makes Cameron turn back around.

From outside the classroom, Mr. McAllister hears all the noise and sees

all the students ripping out the pages. He bursts into the room.

The boys all turn around in shock. Charlie stuffs a crumpled page into his

mouth. Keating emerges from his room with a waste paper basket.

Mr. McAllister slowly backs out of the classroom.

Keating holds out the basket to Charlie who spits out a wad of paper.

The boys get up from their seats and gather around Keating in the center

of the class.

Keating looks up at Todd.

INT. HEAD OF CAFETERIA - DAY

The cafeteria is filled with students and teachers standing before the tables saying grace.

Mr. Keating and Mr. McAllister are seated next to one another at the table.

Keating winks and Mr. McAllister can't help but laugh.

INT. CAFETERIA TABLE - DAY

Neil joins the others at the table. He pulls out a yearbook.

He hands the annual over to Cameron who laughs at the younger picture of Keating.

Cameron quickly puts the annual away and the others all return to their meal.

EXT. WELTON GROUNDS - DAY

Keating is walking down towards the lake, whistling the same tune as before.

The boys emerge from the building and chase after him.

Keating immediately turns around.

He hands Keating the annual and Keating looks at his old photograph.

Keating crouches down and continues looking through the book.

Neil crouches down next to Keating.

The other boys crouch down around Keating.

Keating hands the annual back and walks away, whistling once again. Neil

remains crouched.

The school bells begin ringing and everyone heads back towards the school.

Neil stands up.

Neil turns around and faces the other boys.

The boys run into the building.

Charlie laughs and runs inside. Knox chases after him.

INT LIBRARY - DAY

The boys are all gathered around one of the tables with a map laid out

on it.

The boys take their seats once again and Neil goes over and sits next to

Todd, who is sitting by himself.

Neil shrugs.

Neil gets up and rejoins the others. McAllister hears the boys whispering

again.

INT BATHROOM - NIGHT

Various boys are crowded around the sinks getting ready for bed. Someone

is playing snake charmer music on a kazoo while someone else is bothering

Spaz with a red sock puppet acting like a snake.

Neil enters and taps Todd on the shoulder.

Hager walks past the bathroom and into his room.

The kazoo player lets out a rude squeek before finally stopping. Hager

glares at them for a moment.

INT NEIL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neil stands in his doorway. He looks across the hall to the other room

where Cameron and Charlie are standing. Cameron gives a thumbs up. Neil

closes his room door and takes out his cloak and a flashlight. Setting

the flashlight down on the desk, he notices a worn book, "Five

Centuries of Verse", sitting there. Opening it up, he sees John Keating's

name at the top followed by "Dead Poets". Below the title of the book,

is written: "To Be Read At The Opening of D.P.S. Meetings." Along with

several lines from Thoreau, beginning with "I went to the woods because

I wanted to live deliberately..."

INT STAIRWAY - NIGHT

The shadows of hooded figures can be seen moving throughout the darkened

halls.

INT HAGER'S ROOM - NIGHT

Hager hears a dog barking.

INT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Someone drops a number of dog biscuits by the dog's feet. He stops

barking and immediately begins gobbling them down. Hager looks out

into the hallway with his flashlight but sees nothing.

EXT SCHOOL GROUNDS - NIGHT

The boys quietly leave the building and set off running across the

fields towards the woods.

EXT WOODS - NIGHT

The boys search about the trees trying to find the cave. Meeks is

searching around when Charlie leaps up behind Meeks in the dark

shining the flashlight up at his own face and grabs Meeks by the

shoulder.

INT CAVE - NIGHT

The boys are trying to start a fire. The cave is quickly filling up with

smoke.

CHARLIE

Pitts tries to stand up and slams his head into the low rock ceiling. He

lets out a yell while the others laugh.

Neil stands before the others with the book in hand, and takes a drag

on a cigarette.

The boys cheer.

Several boys whistle softly in reaction to the poem.

Neil begins flipping through the book.

Meeks lays his coat down and everyone dumps their food on it. Amongst

the pile are chocolate chip cookies, a box of raisins, a few apples, an

orange, and half a roll.

INT CAVE - NIGHT

Neil, lit up by a flashlight, begins to tell everyone a story.

All the boys react, recalling the story and miming the scraping on the

roof of the car.

As everyone's voices begin to calm down, Pitts begins reading from the

book.

The boys laugh.

Meeks hands Charlie the book but he shoves it away.

Neil moves to the side as Charlie stands and takes his spot.

Charlie clears his throat and pulls out a page from a magazine and

slowly unfolds it, revealing a Playboy centerfold (Elaine Reynolds,

Miss October, 1959)

Neil gets up and looks over Charlie's shoulder to see what he is

reading.

Charlie winks at the guys and they clap and cheer.

Charlie turns over the centerfold to show where he had written down

the poem.

Neil sits reading from the book by flashlight.

Meeks takes center stage and begins reading a poem like he is

performing a chant.

Knox picks up a metal container and begins using it as a drum. The

other boys stand and begin going in a circle, making music with

sticks of wood, combs, etc.

The boys continue to chant the chorus as they emerge from the

cave.

EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT

The clock tolls two as the boys silently run back to their dorm.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Keating is walking to the front of the classroom filled with students.

He points to the back of the classroom.

Keating stands before Todd's desk. Todd looks up nervously but

says nothing. Keating paused for a moment before looking away.

The class lets out a collective sigh.

Keating holds out his right arm dramtically and begins to

speak in an exaggerated British accent.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

The students are all seated together near the front of the room as

Keating reads from a book.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

The students are all back in their normal seats and Keating leaps

up onto his desk.

Keating rings the bell on his desk with his foot

Keating glances around the classroom from atop the desk.

Charlie and Neil quickly rise from their seats to go to the front

of the classroom. The rest of the class follows them. While Keating

continues speaking, Neil and Charlie join him on the desk and then

Keating jumps down.

Keating notices Spaz and another boy leaving the desk immediately.

The school bell rings as the boys continue to climb onto the desk.

Keating begins to gather up his stuff. The clock begins to toll as

Keating walks to the back of the class.

The students begin to groan. Keating begins flickering the lights

off and on while chanting ominously.

Keating steps out into the hall before quickly peeking back in once again.

Todd is the last one to stand on the desk and is about to jump off.

Keating flicks the light off, leaving Todd to jump down in the darkness

as the students laugh.

EXT. RIVER - DAY

Cameron, Charlie, and several other boys are rowing while Mr. Nolan

shouts orders from a bullhorn.

EXT. CAMPUS ROOFTOP - DAY

Noisy static is replaced by music as Pitts climbs down form the peak to

join Meeks at their makeshift radio.

EXT CAMPUS - DAY

Several students are fencing on a grassy slope.

EXT. CAMPUS ROOFTOP - DAY

Meeks and Pitts perform a goofy dance together to the music.

INT. TODD'S ROOM - DAY

Todd is on his bed trying to write a poem. The door opens and Todd

turns his writing pad over. Neil enters the room laughing. He crouches

down next to Todd's bed and plunks a sheet of paper in Todd's lap.

Neil pounds on the bed and then pulls a blanket off his bed,

wearing it like a cloak.

Neil grabs a handful of papers off Todd's bed and tosses them into

the air.

Neil tosses the blanket back onto his bed.

Todd says nothing. Neil looks at him for a moment and then takes

the flyer back from Todd. He walks over to the window, his

excitement gone.

Once again, Todd says nothing. After a moment, Neil sits on the

heater and Todd returns to his poem.

Neil gets up from the window and stands over Todd.

A smile comes to Neil's face.

Neil grabs Todd's notebook of poetry and runs across the room with

it. Todd leaps up after him.

The two begin racing in circles around the room, jumping from

bed to bed as Todd tries to grab his poem back.

Neil drops the notebook. Cameron walks into the room.

Cameron tries to hold up his book and Neil snatches it from his hands and

suddenly all three of them are racing around the room.

Charlie enters the room and begins waving his hands.

Neil tosses Cameron's book to Charlie.

The four boys continue racing around the cramped quarters, tossing

Cameron's book back and forth. Neil picks up a recorder and begins

blowing erratic notes on it while Charlie starts pounding on a set of

bongo drums. Outside the room a crowd of boys watch.

EXT. CAMPUS ENTRANCE - DAY

Knox is riding his bike around in circles near the entrance. Seeing no

one nearby, he races through the open gates and down the road. He comes

to the top of a hill and then goes downhill across the grass, shouting

as he sends an immense flock of geese flying into the air.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

A number of vehicles drive up, filled with students dressed in bright red

cosyumes, playing trumpets and various other instruments as they pass.

Knox watches the growing crowd of students. They are all converging on

a bus. A football player, wearing a horned helmet, dances on the roof of

the bus. A band is playing while a group of cheerleaders are practising.

Knox spots Chris amongst the cheerleaders. He watches her until Chet

comes along and she grabs hold of his hand. Knox looks away in disgust.

Chris jumps into Chet's arms as everyone begins to board the buses. Knox

turns his bike around and leaves.

EXT. SOCCER FIELD - DAY

Keating walks across the field, followed by his students. He kicks a ball

ahead of him while he carries a number of other balls in a net slung over

his shoulder.

Keating reaches the stands. He tosses the balls aside and pulls sets

his briefcase down. As the boys line up he begins ripping off slips

of paper from a notepad and handing them out.

He hands the notepad to another student.

EXT. SOCCER FIELD - DAY

The students are all lined up in single file, each holding a slip

of paper. Keating blows his whistle.

Pitts gives one of the soccer balls a good kick.

One of the students sets up the next ball as the line advances.

Keating walks away and starts up a record player.

Classical music begins playing on the phonograph. Meeks goes to

read next but is confused by the music.

Hopkins crumples up his paper and then barely taps the soccer

ball with his foot.

Keating puts a look of disgust on his face.

Charlie raises his hands over his head.

INT. DORM HALLWAY - DAY

Neil is racing down the hallway, all excited.

He pounds on Charlie's door.

Neil enters his room with Todd and sits down at his typewriter.

Neil begins laughing and stomping his feet up and down.

EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT

A lone bagpiper plays out on the dock.

INT. TODD'S ROOM - NIGHT

Todd is pacing circles about his room as he reads his poem. His

pacing slows and then he tears the poem up.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Knox stands at the front of the room with his poem in hand.

Charlie looks up from his desk with a grin.

Several students begin to snicker.

Knox crumples his poem and walks back to his desk.

Hopkins slowly walks to the front of the class and unfolds

his piece of paper.

Keating approaches Todd's desk.

Keating walks up to the blackboard and begins to write.

Todd reluctantly stands and follows Keating to the front.

Todd goes to return to his seat but Keating stops him.

Keating turns Todd around and points out a picture on the wall.

Keating begins to circle around Todd.

Keating puts his hands over Todd's eyes and they begin to slowly

spin around.

Keating removes his hands from Todd but Todd keeps his eyes

closed.

The students begin to laugh and Todd opens his eyes. Keating

quickly gestures for him to close them again.

Todd opens his eyes. The class is silent. Then they begin to clap

and cheer.

EXT. SOCCER FIELD - DAY

Keating's students are playing a soccer game. After they score the

winning goal they hoist Keating onto their shoulders and carry him

away.

INT. CAVE - DAY

The boys are all sitting around the cave lighting their pipes.

Pitts holds up a centerfold.

Neil enters the cave carrying a beat up light stand.

Neil removes the shade from the lamp, revealing the shape of a man

as the base of the lamp.

Charlie begins making loud noises with his saxophone.

Charlie stands up and clears his throat.

Charlie begins playing erratic notes on the sexophone.

Charlie plays more erratic sounds.

Charlie starts to play a real tune on the saxophone.

Knox jumps up.

Knox begins to chuckle as he leaves the cave. The others

quickly grab their coats to follow him. Charlie goes back to

playing noise on his saxophone again.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Knox is making a call from the payphone.

Knox immediately hangs up and looks at the other boys who are

all gathered around him.

Knox puts in another coin and calls again.

Knox flips his scarf dramatically around his neck as he walks away

and climbs the stairs.

EXT. COURTYARD - DAY

The students are standing in a line while Cameron, Pitts, and Knox

are walking in a circle. Keating watches as they go around.

After a few moments, the three boys begin to march to the same beat.

The other boys start clapping to the rhythm of their steps.

Mr. Nolan looks out at them from his office as Keating joins the

boys and begins marching with them.

The boys come to a halt.

Keating begins walking very slowly.

Keating begins walking with his groin pushed forward.

The students begin walking about, some walking casually, others

making up silly walks. Keating notices that Charlie is still

leaning up against one of the pillars.

Nolan moves away from the window where he had been watching them.

EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT

Neil is walking by with the notes for the play when he notices Todd

sitting off by himself on one of the walkways.

Neil looks down at a deskset sitting next to Todd, still in

its wrappings.

Neil picks up the desk set and begins examining it more closely.

Neil tosses the desk set lightly in the air. Todd stands up

and Neil hands him the desk set.

Todd flings the desk set over the side of the walkway and it

falls to pieces down below.

INT. CAVE - NIGHT

All the boys but Knox and Charlie are gathered in the cave.

The boys stop as they hear the sound of female laughter outside.

Gloria hops into the cave wearing a bright red shirt. The lights from

the boys' flashlights play conspicously over Gloria's chest. Tina

enters right behind her.

Meeks stands up and slams his head into the low ceiling.

The boys move aside to let the girls in.

Tina takes out a tube of red lipstick. Charlie takes it from her

and puts red marks on each of his cheeks.

INT. CHET'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Knox enters the house and looks anxiously about.

Knox stops and combs his hair in the hallway mirror. Chris comes

running out from one of the rooms.

Chris grabs Knox by his jackets and pulls him forward as she walks

toward the stairs.

Chris runs up the stairs as Knox stares after her.

INT. CHET'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

Knox stares at a couple kissing passionately. Across the room he sees

Chet and Chris dancing. He walks away.

INT. CHET'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Knox enters the kitchen, walking between several football players

to fill up a mug of beer from a keg.

Bubba spits ice cubes into the sink.

Bubba hands Knox a glass and fills it up.

The two guys raise their glasses in a toast and Knox reluctantly

joins them.

They each take a big drink. Knox rolls his eyes and gasps,

loosening his tie to try and breathe.

They raise their glasses again for a toast and down the rest

of their glasses.

Bubba puts on a horned football helmet and walks away.

INT. CAVE - NIGHT

Charlie leans over to Tina.

The boys laugh and Cameron shakes his head. Charlie moves over

to sit next to Gloria.

INT. CHET'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

The room is whirling as Knox belches and staggers across the room. He

passes Chet and several of his friends. He steps over several couples

kissing on the floor and slump down on the couch, only to be crowded

in by another couple who seem oblivious to him. He is about to get up

again when he notices Chris sleeping next to him on the couch.

Knox looks about and then looks back down at Chris.

Knox takes a last swig of his drink  and then begins to softly run his

fingers over Chris' hair. He then leans over and kisses her forehead.

Across the room, Bubba looks over and sees what's going on.

Chris rises up from the couch and looks at Knox in surprise.

Chet gets up from his chair.

Chet throws himself at Knox, hurling them both to the floor. He

then straddles Knox and begins to punch at him as Knox simply

tries to protect himself.

Chris manages to haul Chet away from Knox.

Knox takes his hands away from his face and feels at his bloody

nose. Chris tries to help him up.

Chet hauls Chris away from Knox and then points at him.

INT. CAVE - NIGHT

Tina passes a bottle of alcohol to Neil.

Cameron motions for Neil not to take it but Neil takes a swig anyway.

There is a moment of awkward silence.

INT. ASSEMBLY HALL - DAY

The professors hurry down the steps, lead by an obviously agitated

Mr. Nolan. Several are carrying newspapers in their hands. The

students all rise as they enter. After all the professors have

taken their places, Mr. Nolan addresses the students.

The students all sit.

The sound of a phone ringing can be heard. The professors look

about for its source. Charlie picks up a telephone receiver.

Charlie stands up, holding a phone and bell in his hands.

Most of the students laugh while the boys from the cave all shake

their heads in disbelief.

INT. NOLAN'S OFFICE - DAY

Charlie stands with his back to the door as Mr. Nolan shuts it. Mr.

Nolan then walks around to face Charlie.

Charlie sighs and bends over, resting his hands on the desk. Mr.

Nolan hefts a flat wooden paddle in his hands.

Mr. Nolan begins to strike Charlie with the paddle.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

A crowd of students is gathered about as Charlie stiffly walks back to his room.

Charlie smiles and then shuts his door.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Keating and McAllister are enjoying tea in the small room off the

classroom. Mr. Nolan knocks on the door and enters.

Keating fixes his tie and follows Mr. Nolan into the classroom.

INT. STUDY ROOM - DAY

Charlie sits with his bongos as the other boys are all crowded

around him. He hits the bongoes as he mimes Nolan's footsteps.

The door opens and Keating walks in. Many of the boys get up from

their seats.

Keating leaves and the boys gather around Charlie once again.

EXT. CAMPUS - DAY

Neil bikes away as the clock bell tolls.

INT. THEATER - DAY

Neil walks into the back of the theater and watches various

actors rehearsing on stage. A smile fills his face.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

The bell rings and students rush down the hall.

Neil comes up the stairs as everyone else swarms down to the cafeteria.

Neil opens the door to his room and sees his father sitting at his desk.

Mr. Perry rises from the desk.

Mr. Perry goes to leave and then turns around.

INT. KEATING'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Keating is seated at his desk. He is writing a letter and occasionally

looks up at the framed photo on his desk of a woman playing the cello.

There is a knock at the door.

Neil enters and closes the door behind him. He appears to be nervous.

Neil goes to take a seat but notices the chair is piled up with books.

Neil picks them up and Keating gets up from his seat to help him.

Keating goes to a table in the corner and begins pouring several cups.

Keating gives Neil a cup of tea and they return to their seats. Neil

looks at the photo on the desk.

A tear falls down Neil's cheek and he wipes it away.

EXT. CAMPUS - DAY

Knox exits one of the doors. The ground is covered with a thick

layer of snow. He looks around to see if anyone is about and then

hurries over to the bike rack. grabbing one of the bikes, he hurries

off.

INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY

A crowd of students come in from the cold. Knox pushes his way through

them, carrying a handful of wildflowers. He begins searching for Chris.

He approaches a girl with hair similar to Chris' and turns her around,

only to realize that it's not her.

The girl points down the hallway and Knox sets off in that direction.

Chris is at her locker talking to a friend. She just closes her locker

as she notices Knox coming towards her. She turns away.

Chris pulls him aside, out of the main hallway.

Chris walks away. The school bell rings and she enters her

classroom, closing the door behind her. Undaunted, Knox follows,

opening the door and standing before her desk.

As Knox begins to read his poem, the classroom grows quiet as

everyone stops to listen.

Chris holds her head in her hands in embarrassment.

INT. CAMPUS KITCHEN - DAY

Knox sneaks in through a side door. He snatches a slice of toast

from the counter and motions to one of the staff to keep secret.

He then begins to eat the toast as he hurries away.

INT. STAIRWAY - DAY

The school bell rings and Knox pushes his way up the stairs past

the slower students. At the top he joins the other boys where they

are grabbing their books.

Charlie notices Knox and grabs his jacket.

The boys begin to get all excited but Charlie shushes them.

Knox walks away down the hall and the others chase after him.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Keating walks from the front of the classroom to Neil's desk. Neil

is the only student remaining in the class.

Neil picks up his books and leaves.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

The boys are grooming themselves in front of the mirrors.

Cameron runs a comb through his hair and Todd tries to mess it up.

One of the stalls opens and Charlie's hand emerges, holding a small

brush and a bottle of red paint.

Charlie opens his unbuttoned shirt to show a large red lightning bolt

painted down his chest.

Charlie buttons up his shirt as everyone prepares to leave.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

The boys are walking down the hall to leave. Cameron stops and stares.

The other boys notice and stop as well. Charlie softly whistles at Chris

standing by the door. Knox stares at her in surprise

Knox leaves the other boys to join her.

Charlie hustles the boys away. Meeks remains staring at her. Charlie

returns to drag him away.

Knox shushes her and leads her out the door.

EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT

Snow is lightly falling as Chris and Knox walk outside.

Keating calls out from a nearby car.

Chris walks away from him and then turns to face him.

Chris gestures for Knox to follow her. Charlie does a little

twirl as he joins her and puts his arm around her. They walk away.

INT. THEATER - NIGHT

The audience is packed. The stage is set up to resemble a forest and

lights dance about it. From behind a bush, Neil emerges, wearing a

crown of twigs and berries and twigs on his hands. In the audience,

Charlie emerges from his seat, all excited.

Cameron shoves him back into his seat.

On stage, Neil hides behind a tree as a girl emerges, similarly clad,

but with flowers in her hair. Neil sneaks over to the girl.

In the audience, Chris and Knox enter and are shown to seats.

Puck makes horse sounds and the audience laughs.

In the audience, Charlie leans over towards Keating.

Keating gives a thumbs up.

The two actors hide behind the trees, lifting their twig covered

hands to hide themselves.

INT. THEATER - NIGHT

Two other actors are onstage.

Neil is watching the actors from the wing. He glances out at the audience

and sees his father enter the back of the theater. Neil backs away into

the shadows.

The director breaks Neil out of his thoughts.

Neil reluctantly replaces his crown and follows her.

INT. THEATER - NIGHT

On stage, Neil collects dew in a leaf and holds it over his head while

fairies dance about. In the audience, Knox takes Chris' hand in his.

INT. THEATER - NIGHT

The stage is dark. A spotlight comes on to reveal Neil with his back to

the audience. He slowly turns around to face the audience and his father.

Neil directs his eyes at his father, who stills stands at the back

of the theater.

Neil backs away and the curtains close as the audience begins to

applaud enthusiastically. Behind the curtain numerous people

congratulate Neil as they line up for the curtain call. The curtains

open. Charlie and the other boys rise to their feet, followed quickly

by the rest of the audience. The actors bow to continued applause. The

actors push Neil forward and he takes a second bow.

The curtain closes again and Neil turns around, letting out an

excited sigh. Various actors continue to congratulate him. Neil

lets out a yell as he walks offstage. In the audience, while others

are leaving, Mr. Perry approaches a woman.

Backstage, the woman approaches Neil.

Neil nods in agreement.

Neil emerges from the curtains, carrying his costume. The theater is

nearly empty now, except for Mr. Perry standing at the back. Neil

smiles at him but the smile quickly disappears.

EXT. THEATER - NIGHT

Mr. Perry pushes his way through the crowd of people, with Neil close

behind.

The boys notice Neil and try to dtop him to talk.

Outside of the crowd, Keating manages to catch up to Neil. He takes

hold of Neil's coat.

Mr. Perry returns from his car and shoves Neil aside.

Neil and Mr. Perry get into their car and drive away. Keating

stares after them.

Charlie motions Todd to follow.

The boys leave and Keating continues to stare after the car, wiping

the falling snow from his face.

INT. MR. PERRY'S STUDY - NIGHT

A photo of Neil standing stiffly with his parents sits on a table

between a glass of alcohol and a half filled ashtray. Mrs. Perry

watches through the window as her husband and son arrive and then

takes a nervous puff on her cigarette before sitting down. Mr.

Perry walks in with Neil close behind him. Neil sits down beside the

desk while Mr. Perry remains standing.

Neil rises to his feet.

Mrs. Perry stands up.

Neil looks to his mother and then back to his father but says

nothing.

Neil sits back down dejectedly.

Mr. Perry leaves. Mrs. Perry pauses on her way out and kneels

behind Neil.

Mrs. Perry nods slightly.

INT. MR. PERRY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mrs. Perry sits on the side of the bed with her back to her

husband. Mr. Perry removes his robe and slippers before

getting in to bed. Mrs. Perry begins to cry as he turns out

the light.

INT. NEIL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neil's pyjamas, bathrobe, towel, and shaving kit are all neatly

laid out on his bed. Neil touches his pyjamas lightly and then

removes his coat and shirt. He walks over to the windows and

opens them, taking several deep breaths. He places the crown of

twigs on his head and then closes his eyes, slowly letting his head

fall to his chest.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

A door opens and Neil emerges, slowly walking down the stairs as if

in a trance.

INT. MR. PERRY'S STUDY - NIGHT

Neil holds a key in his hands. He unlocks a drawer in his father's

desk and pulls out a pistol, wrapped in cloth.

INT. MR. PERRY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mr. Perry jerks up out of bed, startled and breathing fast.

Mr. Perry turns on the light and gets up out of bed, putting on his

robe and slippers.

Mr. Perry turns on the hallway light and knocks on Neil's door. He opens

the door and goes inside.

Mr. Perry notices the open window.

Mr. Perry continues to look through the house, continuing downstairs.

Mr. Perry notices the door to his study is ajar.

Mr. Perry flicks the light on but sees nothing. Then he smells

something. Looking closer, he sees a thin cloud of smoke rising from

behind his desk. As he moves around the desk he sees his gun on the

floor and Neil's outstretched hand.

Mr. Perry crouches down by his son.

Mrs. Perry enters the room and sees her son.

Mr. Perry holds his wife and tries to comfort her.

INT. TODD'S ROOM - NIGHT

Todd is sleeping. Charlie reaches across to wake him. Tears are

running down his face.

Todd, still half asleep, tries to shrug him off.

Todd opens his eyes and sees Charlie's face

Todd looks over to see Pitts, Meeks, and Knox by the door.

EXT. CAMPUS - DAY

It is a snowy, overcast morning. Todd walks through the snow. He

has his coat on over his pyjamas. The other boys follow closely

behind him as he walks down towards the water. He stops and stares

out at the snow-covered surroundings.

Todd begins to gag and then goes down on his knees, vomiting into

the snow. The other boys huddle around him, hugging him.

Charlie grabs a handful of snow and wipes Todd's mouth with it.

Todd pushes himself away from the boys and stumbles down the hill,

slipping and falling in the snow.

The boys watch as Todd runs down towards the dock by the river,

yelling and crying. He finally seems to regain control of himself

and walks in silence out onto the dock.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Keating sits by himself at his desk. After a moment he gets up

and walks over to Neil's desk. Opening it, he finds his copy

of "Five Centuries of Verse" and flips through the first few pages.

Sitting down at the desk, he returns to the opening page, reading

the opening verse written there. Keating begins to sob, then closes

the book.

INT. ASSEMBLY HALL - DAY

A church service is going on. The boys have joined in the other

students in a hymn. Charlie is the only one not singing. He stares

off into nothingness.

Mr. Nolan stands at the pulpit, with the rest of the professors

seated behind him.

INT. CLOAKROOM - DAY

The boys (except Cameron) are sitting about the cluttered room

waiting. Charlie lights a cigarette.

The door opens. All the boys except Charlie hurry to put

their cigarettes out and wave the smoke away. A light comes on

and Cameron enters.

Charlie gets up and approaches Cameron, tossing his cigarette away.

Charlie lunges at Cameron but Knox and Meeks hold him back.

Charlie lunges at Cameron again and punches him in the face.

Cameron falls to the floor as the boys pull Charlie away. Cameron

lifts a hand to his bloody nose.

Cameron rises to his feet.

Cameron walks away, closing the door behind him.

INT. TODD'S ROOM - DAY

Todd looks out the window and watches as Hager escorts Meeks back

to the dorm. Inside the room, Neil's bed has been stripped of all

its bedding.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Meeks walks slowly to his room. Hager remains standing at the end of

the hallway.

Knox emerges from his room and goes to joing Hager. He gives a thumbs

up to Todd as he passes his door. Once he leaves with Hager, Todd goes

over to Meeks' door.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Todd is lead up the steps to Mr. Nolan's office by Hager.

INT. NOLAN'S OFFICE - DAY

Todd enters the room to see his mother and father seated opposite

Mr. Nolan's desk.

THe door closes behind Todd. He remains standing, not knowing

what to do.

Todd sits down next to his parents.

Todd says nothing.

Mr. Nolan puts his glasses on and glances at a paper before him

before removing his glasses once more.

Mr. Nolan motions to Todd's father, who passes along a sheet of

paper to Todd.

Todd looks at the paper, which already contains the signatures of

the other four boys.

Mr. Nolan holds out a pen for Todd to take.

EXT. CAMPUS - DAY

Mr. McAllister leads his students, textbooks in hand, through the

snow outside the classrooms.

Keating looks out from his office window. McAllister pauses and looks

up at Keating, giving him a brief wave. Keating waves back.

INT. KEATING'S OFFICE - DAY

Keating laughs slightly as he watches McAllister from the window.

Inside, all his belongings have been packed up.

INT. KEATING'S CLASSROOM - DAY

The students are all seated at their desks in silence. Everyone looks

as the door opens. They quickly stand as Mr. Nolan enters the room.

The students sit once again as Mr. Nolan walks to the front of the room.

There is a knock at the classroom door.

The students look back as the door opens. They quickly turn

away when hey see it is Keating.

Todd slowly closes his book. Keating opens the door to the tiny

room off the classroom.

Mr. Nolan takes his own book over to Cameron's desk and then

slaps the open page.

As Cameron begins to read, Keating looks out at Todd as he puts

his scarf on. Todd looks at him for a moment and then glances away.

The door squeaks as Keating shuts it behind him. Cameron pauses.

Keating passes by Todd and the others and gets to the back of the

classroom before Todd leaps up from his seat and turns to face him.

Mr. Nolan gets up from his desk and approaches Todd.

Todd reluctantly returns to his seat.

Keating hesitates at the back of the classroom.

Keating slowly turns and heads to the door. As he opens

it, Todd, stands upon his desk and turns to Keating.

Keating pauses at the door and looks back at Todd on his desk.

After a moment of indecision, Knox climbs up onto his desk.

Pitts climbs up onto his desk, followed by several others,

including Meeks.

More students stand on their desks until half the class is standing.

Keating stands in the doorway, staring up at the boys in wonder. A

smile comes to his face.

