Across the street, a man, one of many passing on the

sidewalk. Except this man turns as Kevin passes.

Watching him. Seeing something that pleases him.

This is JOHN MILTON. And now, as Kevin disappears,

Milton joins the flow of people heading down into a

subway station -- down -- and gone, as we PULL BACK TO --

As day becomes night.

Mary Ann watching TV alone. Remnants of a room service

dinner. They've been living here for weeks now. The

maids have started to give up.

Kevin enters looking beat.    Grabs a cold french fry.

Deep ghetto side street. One of those blocks that have

been completely lost. One whole side of the street has

nothing but boarded-up row houses.

A black Town Car pulling through.    Slowing now --

Kevin and his DRIVER peering across the street.

A storefront botanica. Insane colors. Rusted iron

grates covering two tiny cataract windows. A steel door

is open. There's a sick-looking DOG tied to the doorknob;

he begins BARKING wildly, as he sees --

Kevin walking from the car.    Suit and tie.     Briefcase.

Turning, as he hears --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/15/96                          38.

Jackie rejecting Mary Ann's color choices.

Law books stacked around.    An associate wheels in a

trolley with more books.

Mary Ann eating fried chicken. She doesn't like the

wallpaper. She's tearing it off, as we --

Kevin working late.   Across the hall Pam is going home.

Bench trial. No jury. JUDGE THEO SKLAR and staff.

A.D.A. MERTO at his seat. Pam sits with Moyez. Other

than that, it's empty.

A rump roast slaps down onto a table.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                         64/65.

Kevin, coming out a door with Heath and an associate.

Christabella climbing the stairs. Short skirt. Great

angle. Halfway up, she stops to fix her stockings.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 10/22/96                             67.

He turns instantly -- Pamela standing behind him.

Christabella smiling as Kevin rushes off.

Mary Ann very upset.    Kevin has just come home.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 10/22/96                      68.

His hand moves against her cheek, and then down the back

of her neck. She moves into his body and --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 10/22/96                      68A.

(EFX) Suddenly -- She's Christabella -- right there --

in his arms -- before he can react -- before he can speak

-- she finds his mouth and they are kissing and --

Suddenly -- She's Mary Ann -- and he's pulling up her

dress and she's helping him and his hand is moving over

bare thigh and --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                             69.

(EFX) Suddenly -- She's Christabella unbuttoning her

blouse -- and she can't do it fast enough -- still with

her mouth on his and his hand between her legs and --

Suddenly -- She's Mary Ann -- flattening against the wall

and her blouse is open and --

(EFX) Suddenly -- She's Christabella -- pulling off her

bra as his mouth moves over her breasts and his hands are

everywhere and the bra is gone and she's tearing at his

shirt and he's helping her and her dress is on the floor

and there's no rug or anything, but this is where they

will fuck because they can't stop themselves and she's on

her back on the bare floor and he's kicking away his

shoes and she's feeling herself and staring into his eyes

and suddenly --

Kevin looks like he's been shot.      In the balls.

Mary Ann doesn't look so sure.

Huge. Opulent. Kevin and Pamela have been taking notes.

Cullen is exhausted, frustrated.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                           70.

Cullen reaches into his jacket and pulls out a gun.

Kevin watching Cullen quickly retrieve the gun from the

floor with this weird little motion.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                               71.

Cullen hands him the gun.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                          72.

A large, ugly cube. Daylight through dirty windows.

Kevin alone. On the table, a large, grey envelope.

Printed on it:

Kevin going through a stack of crime scene photographs.

Tough stuff. One after another. Three victims.    Many

angles. We can see their horror in his face.

PANNING ALONG Wall Street. The whole downtown skyline.

SETTLING finally ON the 60th floor of the law firm

building. Hovering at a distance. Lights on here and

there and --

One window. Kevin's office. He and Pamela are talking

to a young woman. This is MELISSA BLOCK, Cullen's

assistant and alibi. We can't hear what they're saying,

but it looks to be a collegial meeting.

Kevin and Pam walking Melissa out through the empty

reception area.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                             73.

As Melissa exits with Pam, Kevin notices two associates

carrying boxes far up the hall and we --

Paper shredders. Half a dozen of them cranking full

tilt. Stacks of files left to go. Barzoon and six

associates working late. Shirtsleeves and coffee.

Barzoon stops as he sees Kevin in the doorway.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                             74.

Milton in the hall behind Kevin.        Tickets in hand.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                             75.

The car half full. Kevin and Milton standing near the

door. Right behind them, three guys in the midst of an

intense conversation in Spanish.

Suddenly, one of the guys behind them, the biggest of the

three, we'll call him BIG GUY, turns back --

Big Guy pulls open his jacket -- a knife in his belt.

But Milton doesn't move.     He smiles.

Big Guy backing away -- into his friends --

The SUBWAY RATTLING into the Fourteenth Street station.

The doors open. Big Guy stumbling back -- his friends

catching him -- helping him off the train -- looking

back, as the doors close and...

It's like it never happened. Milton straightening his

cuffs as the train pulls away.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                          77.

Right INTO it. Red trunks with a huge right hand and

blue trunks drops and the Garden goes wild -- five

thousand people yelling for blood.

And Milton at ringside, breathing deeply of the vibe

and --

Blue trunks rises on shaky legs as the BELL RINGS, the

round over and the crowd groans back into its seats.

Milton turning as DON KING collars him.

Kevin shaking hands with Don King, as we --

Serious flamenco. Music is loud. The dancer is

fantastic. Deep reds. Deep blacks. Skin. Duende.

Milton, sitting beside some blonde he's discovered, he's

got his jacket off, clapping perfectly to the beat.

Behind him, a large table of ten/fifteen people. Food

and wine to excess. Laughter and music and...

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/15/96                            82.

Kevin watching her go, looking up, seeing the glass bridge

high above.

A limousine double-parked outside a brownstone. Kevin

standing there as Cullen comes storming out of the

building.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/15/96                           85/86.

There he is, waiting for the elevator. With him are

Christabella and an Asian woman who is so sexy it hurts.

Kevin off balance from this moment on.

Mary Ann smells the danger.       Everything is awkward.

A moment of bullshit superficial greetings and then --

the elevator doors opening and the whole uncomfortable

clot of them moving into --

Just enough room.       They ascend.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                              87.

Mrs. Lomax has been staring, and now Milton meets her

eyes as the elevator stops and the doors open.

Kevin next out, holding the door, waiting --

Mrs. Lomax takes one last look at Milton as she exits.

In the b.g., Mary Ann opening the apartment door and

going inside. Mrs. Lomax right behind her.

Milton smiles.      Christabella smiles.   Giselle smiles.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/15/96                             89.

Kevin turning out the lights, as we --

Newspapers.    Laying on the doorstep.    Headline reads:

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/15/96                            90.

Kevin, dressed for work, briefcase in hand, rushing down

a cup of coffee, reading the headline and --

The door to the guest room is open.      He looks in --

Mrs. Lomax fully dressed.      The bed is made.    Her bag is

packed.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/15/96                            91.

Mrs. Lomax watching him go, as we --

Melissa and Kevin on a bench. Kids playing. One of them

is hers, but she's not paying much attention at the

moment --

Melissa looking away, as we --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/15/96                       92.

Modern. Empty. The JUDGE is a WOMAN. No bullshit.

Barzoon sitting alone at the defense table. Federal

prosecutor MITCHELL WEAVER on his feet.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 10/22/96                             93.

But the gavel comes down. Done.      Barzoon packing up,

looks to the back of the room.

Kevin sitting there.    Waiting.

Busy.   Lots of traffic.   Barzoon and Kevin walking.

A REPORTER pulls up alongside -- excited --

Barzoon is getting away.    Kevin hustling to catch up.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 10/22/96                            94.

Just then, Weaver comes rumbling past --

Before he can answer -- ANOTHER REPORTER swoops in --

Kevin turns to see two more REPORTERS jogging over.

And a photographer -- Kevin under siege and --

Barzoon escaping as reporters begin to materialize from

all sides, and we --

Dark. Quiet. Mary Ann in her chair. She looks like

hell. Eyes red from crying. Kevin has just come home

and found her like this.

The PHONE begins to RING across the room.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                           96.

The PHONE keeps RINGING. Kevin will finally pull away.

Answering the phone O.S., quietly conducting business as

Mary Ann falls apart.

Kevin on a cell phone walking with Milton.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 10/22/96                            97.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/15/96                         98.

Packed. JUDGE ARMAND POE presiding. Cullen seated with

Kevin and Pam. The jury in their box. And prosecutor FRANK

BROYGO on his feet, just wrapping up his opening statement --

Done.   The courtroom is silent.   The jury liked him.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/15/96                           99.

Stunned silence, and then --

Kevin thrown back against a wall --

Kevin -- one push -- Cullen sent flying.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                            100.

A Forensic TECHNICIAN on the stand.     A display chart

beside him.

Blowups of the bloody hand-prints.

Kevin into the evening air, carrying a bag of stuff.

Barzoon standing there in a jogging suit. Furious.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                           101.

Kevin standing there, watching him jog away, as we --

Kevin sitting there with his bag of groceries.      Milton

looking sadly perplexed --

Milton already on the phone.       Punching a number.

Mary Ann coming through the living room. She looks

stoned. But moving with purpose. As if she were hearing

something. Opening the terrace doors and staring out

over the park, as we --

The reservoir entrance. It's a nice night and busy with

runners and bikes and --

Barzoon comes jogging past.

Kevin has a vodka in his hand.

No leaves on the trees. Barzoon running. Breaking a

sweat now. Leaving the heavy traffic behind.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                         106.

Barzoon moving toward the old guy when -- Crack! -- A

tree branch swings out of nowhere -- catching his

elbow -- snapping it back and --

A second homeless man. He's black and older than the

first guy but just as wild and dangerous and he's winding

up to swing the branch again and --

Barzoon on his knees -- dazed -- blood pouring from his

head -- uncomprehending eyes watching these park

creatures tear at his clothes --

(EFX) Watching them grow more feral and less human by the

moment and --

Mary Ann staring out at the park. Covering her ears

against some horrible sound that she alone can hear.

Barzoon -- on his belly -- in the dirt -- trying to

move -- crawl -- anything --

The two men beating Barzoon to death with stones --

-- transforming with every blow -- (EFX) as their hands

descend they become terrifying, demonic creatures, and as

they rise we see them as men and over and over, as we

hear --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                          107/108.

Milton turns to find Kevin staring at him.

Milton watching him walk away, as we --

Pam exits the room. Melissa sitting at the head of the

table. Kevin pacing around her. They are alone.

Practicing her testimony over early morning coffee.

Cut off by --

Silence.   Melissa looks away.

Kevin staring at her.       Looking away.   Moving quickly for

the door, and into:

Three steps out and he stops. Something's wrong. Very

wrong. People are out of their offices, standing in the

doorways. Some of them crying.

Christabella rushes toward him, into his arms --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                             111.

Heath nearby has more answers --

Kevin standing there, holding Christabella. Feeling heat

on the back of his neck and turning to find Milton at the

far end of the hall. Their eyes lock --

Pam coming through the hallway like steel --

As Melissa appears in the conference room door --

SCREAMING uptown. Kevin looking very rattled.      Milton,

beside him. Talking him down.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                             112.

Kevin unreadable.    The SUBWAY CAR RATTLING away.

Packed and ready.

A long, awful pause. Kevin in agony. Milton behind him.

Cullen and Pamela and everyone waiting...

Chaos! -- media madness -- Kevin pushing past dozens of

reporters and camera crews -- court officers trying to

clear the way -- fifteen voices screaming at once --

questions flying like shrapnel -- Cullen, all smiles,

alongside Milton as they're pushed along -- Pam, waving a

cell phone, fighting her way to Kevin and --

Kevin takes the phone, trying to hear above the noise.

A cab speeds to a stop. Kevin jumps out. Feeney, the

doorman, standing there with Felix, his partner.

Kevin running down the sidewalk and --

Kevin enters. It's empty and dark. Two old ladies up

front. Mary Ann in back, wrapped in a comforter.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                             115.

She stands. Throws open the comforter. She is naked.

There are scratch marks all over her body.

Kevin with a NURSE and paperwork.

Kevin nods.    Stands, moving now -- into --

Mary Ann on a moving gurney. Calm now, in the sway of

some very strong drugs. Kevin kneels beside her.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                               116.

A big one. A funereal morning.      Hearse and cortege

parked on the street outside.

Barzoon's funeral. Big deal. Big crowd. An excess of

flowers. ORGAN MUSIC as foreplay. Milton, up front,

seating Diana and children.

Kevin seated on the aisle.     Beside him, Jack Heath.

Kevin turns to see Christabella standing beside him.

Jackie's concerned expression blossoms into a private,

knowing smile now that Kevin has turned away.

Christabella squeezes in, as the MUSIC SWELLS and THE

PRIEST walks solemnly to the altar. Kevin caught in a

high-intensity sexual cross-fire between Jackie and

Christabella. He's tense. He's flipping out.

Milton passes on his way to the back.     Smiles.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 11/2/96                          117.

On one side the Therapist, on the other Allesandra, except

she looks different than last we saw her. Hair down.

Makeup.   She could be all of seventeen.

Kevin staring at Cullen and the girl.

(EFX) Cullen's hand stroking at the back of the pew --

nothing outrageous, except it does call to mind the hand

of Mr. Gettys back in Florida --

Cullen's hand moving with purpose -- stopping --

waiting -- as Allesandra sits back and now his fingers

find her skin -- stroking ever so subtly --

Cullen turns -- except it's not Cullen, it's Gettys --

yes, Gettys -- whispering in Allesandra's ear and --

Kevin out of his seat. Pushing past Christabella --

rushing up the aisle --

Milton watching Kevin flee the church.

Moments later.   Kevin hustling away --

Kevin turns.   Weaver walking beside him.

The funeral. In progress. CHOIR and ORGAN getting

LOUDER. We're watching Milton move in the back of the

church.

Kevin walking faster.    Weaver right beside him.

Stained glass.   Angels.    The Stations of the Cross.

Milton standing in the shadows at the back.      Taking it

all in. Prodigal angel.

(EFX) And then, the stained-glass angels begin to move.

Wings begin to beat. Expressions come alive.

Expressions of panic and fear and --

Kevin really striding.     Weaver right there.

Weaver left standing there, as Kevin rushes away --

through traffic -- across the street --

Kevin, across the street, stops.

(EFX) Stained-glass angels going nuts now -- wings

flapping like mad -- danger everywhere, as the MUSIC

STARTS to CLIMAX and --

Milton down below. Lowering a single finger into the

holy water. Instantly -- it's boiling, and we --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                            121.

Kevin standing there, across the street -- Weaver smiles,

thinking he'll talk now for sure -- stepping off the

curb and --

TIRES SCREECHING and Weaver turning and --

A car trying to stop and --

Kevin watching as --

WHAMM! -- Weaver ploughed onto the hood and --

A mother at the wheel -- her daughter beside her -- both

screaming and --

The car's WINDSHIELD as it CRUMPLES and --

Kevin watching as the car stops and --

Weaver is dazed but alive -- his face buried in the

windshield -- pulling himself up and --

Weaver's face THROUGH the shattered glass as he looks

down to see --

Mother and child (EFX) -- transforming -- for an

instant -- into monsters and --

Weaver more terrified than hurt -- scrambling off the hood

of the car -- staring back in horror and --

Mother and child -- completely freaked out -- both of them

hysterical and --

Weaver holding his arm -- nose bloodied -- but moving --

backing away -- turning to find Kevin still across the

street and --

It's gonna be okay.

And then, a big flat-nose truck -- out of nowhere -- air

BRAKES BLASTING as it just wipes Weaver OFF the SCREEN

and --

Kevin falling back, flat against a wall -- STAYING ON

Kevin -- as the street comes alive with the SOUNDS of

EMERGENCY and he starts moving away and we --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                          122.

Kevin walking through -- stopping finally at an open

door --

Mary Ann in a chair. Heavily sedated. Pam standing

beside her, brushing her hair. Mrs. Lomax, on her knees,

standing now --

Mrs. Lomax guides Kevin out.   Mary Ann's vacant eyes

watching them exit --

Just outside the room.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                           123.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                             124.

Kevin overwhelmed -- walking away -- down the hall --

completely fritzed -- leaving her standing there --

Kevin just stopped walking.

Mary Ann quiet as Pam finishes brushing her hair.

A hand mirror.      Mary Ann turns away instantly --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                               125.

Mary Ann opens her eyes. There's her reflection. She is

beautiful. It's okay. She smiles. What was she afraid

of? And then, the mirror shifts to find --

Pam -- A monster (EFX) -- her features horribly

transformed in the glass and --

Mary Ann rears back -- her head smashing into Pam's face

so hard that the MIRROR SHATTERS -- Pam, blind for a

moment, staggering back -- Mary Ann on her feet and

fighting and Pam suddenly pushed and --

Pam standing there, holding her face in pain, as the glass

door slams shut and --

Mary Ann THROUGH the glass, jamming a chair up under the

doorknob --

Kevin jogging down the hall -- trying the door --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                              126.

Pam doesn't move.

Mary Ann, kneeling on the floor, picking up a broken

shard of mirror and --

Mary Ann raising the glass/blade to her throat.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                            130.

Kevin's eyes settle on the suitcase.      Mary Ann...

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                            131.

Kevin stands.      Quiet fury.   A machine.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                             132.

Kevin disappearing down the stairs. Mrs. Lomax dropping

to her knees as his FOOTSTEPS ECHO away, and we --

As Kevin explodes through a fire door.   Pam standing

there, having a smoke.

Kevin turning and something is very wrong --

Fifty-seventh Street is empty. No cars. No people.

Just the building and the silence. Turning back and

Pam is gone, and then --

And then a WIDER ANGLE -- it goes on and on... He's alone.

Just now realizing the scale of Milton's power. Starting

to walk, as we --

The room's only light coming from the huge bas relief.

Kevin steps off the elevator, into the room.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                             133.

Milton appears out of nowhere.       Walking past Kevin.

Kevin has a gun -- Cullen's gun, in his hand --

Kevin FIRES the GUN -- BANG! BANG! BANG! -- bullets pass

right through him -- into the wall --

Kevin lowers the gun to his side.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                            134.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                      135.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                         136.

(EFX) The Bas Relief -- that wall of bodies swirling in

marble clouds -- it's going to come to life --

Christabella emerges from behind the bar --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                           137.

(EFX) The Bas Relief getting stranger and more seductive

by the moment -- bodies spinning and spawning --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                            138.

Christabella begins to strip.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                        140.

(EFX) The Bas Relief has become an orgy, bodies coming to

life in a swirling, narcotic haze and --

Christabella -- her hands -- moving over her body --

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE - Rev. 1/18/97                         141.

(EFX) The bodies craning to watch as they roll by.

Kevin raises the GUN to his temple -- quick and simple --

SNAP! -- he's blown his brains out --

Milton stunned -- disbelieving for a moment and then an

aura of fire and heat explodes around him --

(EFX) Kevin starting to fall in SUPER SLOW MOTION and --

(EFX) The room consumed with fire as the heat explodes

around Milton's body and --

(EFX) Kevin still falling and --

(EFX) Christabella beating at the flames that now cover

her body and --

(EFX) Kevin still falling and --

(EFX) The Bas Relief. The clouds are now fire -- the

bodies now burning and --

(EFX) Kevin still falling and --

(EFX) Milton as his clothes burn away -- as the heat eats

away his features --

(EFX) as he becomes younger and younger and younger,

until suddenly --

(EFX) For a moment. He is an angel. An instant of

exquisite perfection amidst the flames. And then, just

as  --

(EFX) suddenly -- HE EXPLODES! -- and we --

(EFX) The Bas Relief freezing instantly back into stone

-- trapped in tortured, agonizing finality.

(EFX) And then, the whole thing just crumbling.   Stone

raining down in tiny pieces and --

(EFX) Kevin in SUPER SLOW MOTION as he falls the final

few inches to the floor and at the moment of impact we

hear the sound of THUNDER and we --

The mirror. And Kevin's face. As THUNDER ECHOES AWAY

and becomes nothing more than a FLUSHING URINAL.

We're back in Florida. Where we started. Kevin touches

his face. His body. His head. He's alive. He touches

the mirror. He's insane. He's here. It's now.    WATER

RUNNING in the sink.

The Reporter exits.    Kevin alone with the mirror and his

reflection.

And then it's over. He's made his decision. Replacing

his wedding ring. Reaching for his jacket, as we --

Kevin walking through. His game face.     A court officer

opening the doors and --

Kevin entering. Standing there a moment. Searching for

Heath in the back of the courtroom. He's not there. A

single empty seat.

Kevin moving quickly down the aisle.

Mary Ann standing there, completely unprepared as Kevin

comes in behind her. Embracing her. Holding her tightly

to him with a fervor that we alone will understand.

Kevin nods. Smiles. Backs away. Into his seat.        Gettys

there beside him. Kevin will not look at him.

The Judge enters.    Takes his seat.

Another silence. But this one isn't very long. There

will be chaos in the courtroom. Gettys will freak out

and the press will start running for the phones and the

Judge will be banging that gavel, as we --

As the doors open and the chaos begins to spill into the

hallway. Kevin trying to rush away with Mary Ann but

right behind them --

Kevin nods.    Holding Mary Ann's hand as they escape.

The Reporter watching them go for a moment.         Then turning

back.

(EFX) And as he does, his features change, transforming - - like

that -- into Milton.

It's Milton.

Always there.

And he smiles.    And we FREEZE FRAME.

