We're close on a maze of metal rods, tubes, and wires. It's only

as we pull out that we realize it's the engine of a car. Over

the image we hear a voice talking on a phone.

DRIVER O/S

...hundred thousand streets in this city,

you don't need to know the route. You give

me a time and place, I give you a five

minute window. Those five minutes I'm

yours. Whatever goes down I'm yours. Minute

either side you're on your own...

As the engine ignites and roars to life we DISSOLVE TO:

A map of downtown L.A. spread out on a bed, dozens of different

routes marked in pencil. The voice continues -

DRIVER O/S

...One last thing. You won't be able to

reach me at this number again...

DRIVER hangs up the phone. He folds his map of LA and slips it

in his duffel bag. A few clothes and other essentials are neatly

packed inside. He zips the bag shut and takes one last look at a

cheap TV set. On screen, a movie is playing. On a radio, the LA

Clippers are taking a pounding from the New York Knicks.

Driver strides through a dimly lit car park, carrying his duffel

bag. A YOUNG COUPLE emerge from their car after a late night

out. Driver lowers his eyes, avoiding their gaze as he makes his

way towards a sleek 1970's Chevelle

The Clippers-Knicks game plays on the car radio now. Driver is

only half listening, focused on the road. We see his face in the

passing neon lights. Feline good looks. Impassive blue eyes.

Something almost melancholy in his unwavering gaze. He drives

carefully, letting other cars overtake.

Driver glides into the parking lot of another low-rent apartment

block.

Clutching his duffel bag Driver heads towards the car park

elevator. Hurrying out in the opposite direction he sees a

pretty GIRL in her 20's wearing a waitress outfit. Their eyes

meet briefly, before Driver walks on.

Driver heads down the hallway and unlocks the door to his new

apartment. It's not all that different from his last one. Clean,

sparse, and anonymous. He doesn't even bother to walk in. He

tosses his duffel bag inside and locks the door again.

Driver's back on the road, the basketball game still playing on

the radio. He drives past a row of brightly lit Mexican food

shacks on Silver Lake Boulevard and turns into a run down garage

lit up with a neon sign - Shannon's Picture Car Warehouse -

vintage cars.

SHANNON, the owner of the garage, has a distinctive limp. Driver

follows him past rows of vintage cars.

...Plain Jane cheap like you asked for but

with a hundred and sixty horsepower inside.

You get any sleep?

Not this week.

As Shannon grins we feel the familiarity between them.

I can offer you some Halcyon.

Won't work.

They head past more cars -- Fords, Dodges, Buicks -- until they

arrive at a plain looking Impala.

There she is. Silver Impala. Most popular

car in the state of California...

Driver casts his eyes over the unimpressive vehicle then holds

out his hand for the keys.

The basketball game is approaching the end of the third quarter.

Driver's behind the wheel of the Impala now, cruising past rows

of dingy toy stores on 3rd Street. He glances at his watch. It's

9:50. He checks his mirror then turns into a side street.

A vast electronics superstore dominates the deserted street.

Under the pale yellow glow of the street lamps, Driver sees

signs advertising a `huge blow out weekend sale'. He pulls over,

making sure he has a good view of the entrance. On the radio,

the basketball commentator is getting more excited.

...This is some comeback from the Clippers!

Only a few minutes ago they looked dead and

buried!...

Driver reaches under the seat and pulls out a small handheld

scanner. He switches it on, tuning it to the right frequency.

Crackling police dispatches are interspersed with the basketball

commentary now.

...9 Adam 81, what is your current

location?...Repeat, what is your current

location?...

...Another unbelievable three pointer from

Davis and the Clippers are within five!...

Out of the corner of his eye Driver sees two MEN approach. He

doesn't react, expecting them. They cut through the fence with

bolt cutters and approach the main building. Driver watches them

pull on their masks, then one of them takes out a shotgun and

blasts the lock to the front door. Instantly the alarm shrills.

The only thing Driver does is to turn on his stop watch.

...Time out Knicks...

The stop watching keeps ticking away, the siren blaring, the

commentary continuing, the police scanner crackling.

The storefront is hidden in shadow, impossible to tell what's

going on inside. Driver looks at his stop watch. Almost three

minutes. One of the masked men emerges now, carrying a duffel

bag. He hurries over and gets in the back of Driver's car

without a word. There's no sign of the other robber.

The commentary continues, so does the crackling on the police

scanner. Four minutes. Still no sign of the second armed robber.

His companion in the back starts to look nervous, wondering

what's happened to his partner.

Driver doesn't betray a hint of nerves. Four and half minutes on

his stop watch. Thirty seconds more and he's on his way.

Suddenly the second robber appears from the shadows, running as

fast as he can to the getaway car. He jumps into the back seat a

few seconds short of five minutes and Driver screeches off.

Driver thunders over the 1st Street bridge towards Boyle

Heights, then eases his foot off the gas, slowing to a steady

speed. In the back seat the two armed robbers rip off their

masks, looking pumped up with adrenalin. Driver studies them in

his rear view mirror, then swerves right on Mission Street as

his police scanner crackles to life.

...Attention all units...211...Superstore

on Traction Avenue...Suspects headed

Eastbound on 1st Street...Driving a Silver

Impala...

Driver swings sharply into 4th Street now, crossing the L.A.

River again, heading back in the same direction he came.

...Airships dispatched...Downtown and Boyle

Heights...All units standby. Repeat, all

units standby...

Up ahead, the lights of Downtown L.A. glitter against the night

sky. Hovering between the neon green glow of the skyscrapers

Driver sees the red and white glint of a police helicopter. He

switches off his headlights, turning left on Santa Fe Avenue.

The armed robbers watch in tense silence as Driver weaves in and

out of the industrial alleyways with his lights switched off.

It's as if he's trying to find his way out of the maze or

probing to see if there's anyone out there.

...1 Baker 11, headed south on Boyle

Avenue...No sign of suspects...Repeat, no

sign of suspects...

The armed robbers look relieved when suddenly a police car

glides past at the end of the alleyway, its lights also off.

It's like catching a glimpse of a passing shark's fin. Driver

taps the brakes gently, his car sliding to a stop. He stays

there a moment, then eases the Impala forward, turning in the

same direction as the black-and-white.

It's a high-risk strategy but Driver follows the black-and-white

at a distance, hidden in the darkness, knowing other squad cars

won't be checking the same route. The police car makes its way

through the dimly lit industrial zone, unaware it's being

shadowed. Driver turns his car radio up a whisper.

...And for the first time in the game the

Clippers have the lead. 71 to 69. Seven to

go in the Fourth here at the Staples

Centre...

Driver turns the sound back down. Up ahead, the police car

swings left, disappearing from view. Driver slows down too,

anticipating the next obstacle. He doesn't have long to wait. In

the distance he suddenly sees the piercing beam of a police

chopper's search-lights, sweeping the area one more time.

Driver floors the gas, speeding straight towards the approaching

helicopter. The armed robbers are too stunned to protest. They

just sit there, watching the sweeping searchlights getting

closer and closer.

Then suddenly it becomes clear what Driver's doing. Up ahead,

there's a small underpass below the 7th Street bridge. Driver

slides the car under the safety of the bridge just before the

chopper's searchlights spot them.

The roar of the helicopter thunders overhead. The underpass is

crammed with dirty mattresses and shopping carts. Sleeping HOBOS

can be seen under dirty blankets. Driver waits for the echo of

the helicopter to fade, then moves forward again.

Gloomy yellow street-lamps shine down on the industrial zone.

Rows of delivery trucks are parked outside the meat-packing

factories. Driver cruises cautiously down the deserted street.

The crackling of the police scanner and the droning of the

basketball commentary add to the tension. Finally up ahead he

sees car-lights streaming back and forth on Broadway.

Get down...

The armed robbers lie flat on the back seat, paying Driver more

respect now.

There's a steady flow of traffic on Broadway. Driver falls in

behind the other cars. On the radio, the basketball game is

still playing.

...Three thirteen left on the clock.

Dunleavy calls a time out and it's the

Clippers by one...

The passing head-lamps light up Driver's face. There's not a

trace of emotion in his eyes -- even when he spots a patrol car

approaching in the opposite direction.

...Buckle up your seat belts Clippers fans.

This game really is too close to call...

The two cars pass each other slowly. Driver sees the cops in the

Black-and-White peering at the Impala as they head past. He

turns down the basketball game and focuses on the scanner.

...This is 1 David 16...Silver Impala

headed South on Broadway and

Pico...Couldn't get a look at her license

plates...Appears to be only one occupant...

In the back seat, the armed robbers wait nervously for the

police dispatch to respond.

...1 David 16...why don't you check her

out...

As soon as he hears this Driver swerves sharply into the next

street.

Driver guns around the block now, building up speed.

...This is 1 David 16...We lost the suspect

somewhere between Broadway and

Grand...Possible evasive action...Request

airship and additional units...

Driver bursts out onto Pico now. A squad car headed in the

opposite direction slows down as it sees him but is caught up in

the flow of traffic, unable to turn round and give chase.

...1 David 11...suspect headed West on

Pico...

Driver threads his way through the vehicles in front of him, so

smooth and effortless it's hard to tell how fast he's going. He

glances up as he hears the dull rumble of a police chopper

overhead. The helicopter is almost directly above him, swinging

its search-beam back and forth to get a lock on his position.

Driver pushes the car as fast as it will go, but there's no way

of outrunning the chopper. Blue light floods the asphalt around

him as he guns down Figueroa.

All units...pursuit in progress...silver

Impala...Headed North on Figueroa...

Even now Driver doesn't panic, turning his attention back to the

basketball game.

Thornton pulls up from behind the arc,

misses. Rebound New York. One eighteen to

play...

Driver swerves sharply towards the sparkling lights of the

Staples Centre.

The terraced parking lot looms up ahead. A sign above the

barrier says `Season Ticket Holders Only'. Driver punches in a

ticket and roars into the parking lot.

The Impala screeches from one level to the next. With a game

going on, the parking lot is almost full. Finally Driver pulls

into a free parking space.

...Thirty seconds remaining and all the

Knicks have to do is run out the clock...

Driver glances in his side mirror. Behind him, dozens of FANS

are already streaming out into the parking lot before the game

is over, hoping to avoid the inevitable traffic.

...Gordon back to Davis...Davis for

three...This is unbelievable!...

The jubilant commentary continues, but Driver isn't listening

anymore. The game has served its purpose. More fans flood into

the parking lot. Dozens of cars pull out of their places.

...What a remarkable comeback...Outplayed

for most of the game, the Clippers have

shown incredible resilience...

Driver glances at the armed robbers and nods. It's time. They

climb out of the car, merging in with the crowd. Driver watches

them disappear, then slips on a Clippers cap, climbs out of the

Impala himself and heads towards another car.

Outside the parking lot, the police are waiting, stopping

anything that looks like an Impala, shining their flashlights

into the windows. Wearing his Clippers cap and a Clippers

sticker on his new car, Driver calmly drives past them, making

his getaway.

Driver's face is fixed ahead, sunglasses hiding his eyes. As we

PULL OUT we see to our surprise that he's wearing a policeman's

uniform. It's only as we pull out further that we see several

other `POLICE OFFICERS' sitting in the same fold up chairs,

reading car magazines and scripts as they're powdered by MAKE-UP

GIRLS, and realize we're on a movie set.

Driver glances up from his script and sees another STUNTMAN

being fitted with an SFX mask. The stuntman now looks identical

to the STAR of the movie who stands nearby.

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR O/S

I need you guys to sign this contract...

Driver takes the form along with all the other stuntmen and

signs it without a glance.

Shannon is discussing a car stunt with another AD, using two toy

cars on the hood of a cop car to demonstrate the danger.

...This is a whole new thing. He taps the

fender any faster than fifty not only will

she roll, she'll roll all the way to Baja.

Driver heads off, disinterested in the negotiations.

A high risk stunt like that's worth at

least a thousand five.

They won't go higher than a thousand.

Done.

For all his charm we sense something of the hustler about

Shannon.

Driver approaches a buffet table laid out with food. He's about

to help himself when JACK, the caterer, stops him.

Sorry, that's for the director...

Driver sits at the wheel of the Black-and-White while a STUNT

SUPERVISOR checks his harness. Shannon leans into the window

with a smile.

I managed to get them up to five hundred.

Driver doesn't seem to care, focussed on the job.

2ND UNIT DIRECTOR O/S

Camera ready, sound ready...

Shannon joins the rest of the crew, looking on.

2ND UNIT DIRECTOR O/S

...ACTION!...

Driver floors the gas, screeching out of the alleyway. He

swerves between several oil drums then straightens up on the

main road.

In his rear view mirror he sees a black Dodge Charger appear on

cue, bearing down on him.

Driver slows to forty, like he's supposed to, but the black

Charger keeps coming at speed.

Driver's eyes stay fixed on his rear view mirror, judging the

other car's speed and angle of approach to perfection.

The Charger slams into the back of Driver's car at sixty miles

an hour, hitting him just above the left rear wheel.

Driver's reactions are quick as lightning, counter-steering as

his Black-and-White goes careening off the road. He keeps the

car upright long enough to slow it down before it finally flips

end over end.

Up ahead, the Charger skids to a showy stop.

2ND UNIT DIRECTOR O/S

...And CUT!...

Some clapping and cheering breaks out, but most the crew

couldn't care less, returning to their cell-phones and shot

lists. Only Shannon seems interested in Driver, limping over and

helping him out of his battered Black-and-White.

Nice work, officer...

Driver spits out some fake candyglass from the shattered

windscreen.

A New York style pizza-by-the-slice restaurant. A WAITER takes a

delivery of Chinese food at the door and carries it over to a

table where Shannon is sitting with an old friend, BERNIE ROSE.

Here you go, Mr. Rose.

(Taking out the white boxes)

Egg rolls, chicken chow mein, five flavor

shrimp and Peking duck.

Did they remember the chop sticks?

Doesn't look like it, sir. Let me run and

get the guy.

From the way the waiter hurries off we get a sense of Bernie's

power and authority. He turns back to Shannon, resuming their

conversation.

...You run a perfectly good business. Why

would you want to change now?

You know how much my business made last

year? Thirty Grand. Takes me six months to

build a car and a couple of seconds for

these jerks to write it off on a stunt that

doesn't even make it into the movie.

Bernie shakes his head but clearly has a soft spot for Shannon.

How much do you need?

Let me talk you through it first.

That sounds like a lot.

Doesn't have to be. The big money teams

burn through three, four million a year but

that's `cause they're using half a dozen

test drivers and a stable of cars.

I don't know anything about car racing but

I assume there's a reason for that?

Sure, but it's not the only way. All I need

is a hard-used stock car. We start off with

the small-town action then work our way up.

There's close to two thousand events out

there and once we make the Show we're

talking millions.

`Millions'?

There's a fortune to be made. Sponsorship.

TV deals. We'll even name the team after

you.

Bernie looks at his friend in mild exasperation then turns away

as the waiter returns with a handful of chop sticks.

Thank you, Ron. You sure you don't want any

of this?

No, thanks.

Bernie waits for the waiter to leave then continues.

You still haven't given me a number?

Shannon hesitates but only for a second.

Four hundred and thirty thousand dollars.

Bernie Rose can't help grinning at his nerve.

Look, I wouldn't come to you unless I was

sure about this.

Come on, Shannon. How can you be sure? What

have you got these big money teams don't

have?

I got a driver.

And they got half a dozen Drivers you told

me.

Not like this one.

He stares at his friend with quiet conviction.

I been working with this guy a long time -

I've never seen anything like it. I had the

money I'd back him myself...

Bernie Rose considers him quietly.

But you don't have the money.

Everything I own is in metal. I had to sell

my Bullit car the other day just to pay the

gas bill. I'm telling you, Bernie, put this

kid behind a wheel there's nothing he can't

do.

And what happens to my money if this kid

gets hit by a bus?

Shannon's about to reply when they're interrupted by a big bull

of a man with a gruff voice.

What are you doing eating Chink food in my

restaurant?

What's a Jew doing running a Pizzeria?

Worst fucking pizza in LA by the way. How

hard is it to bake a loaf of bread?

It's the fucking water in this city...

Shannon smiles, intimidated by Nino, giving up his seat

respectfully. Nino doesn't even acknowledge him.

I thought you were supposed to be out of

town anyway?

Well, I'm back.

(Barely a glance at Shannon)

Take a hike. I need to talk to my partner.

Be polite, Nino. I invited him here.

Oh, I'm sorry. How you doing, Shannon?

How's the fucking leg?

Bernie senses things are only going to get worse and dismisses

Shannon gently.

I'll think about it but I want to meet your

guy first...

Driver stands in the elevator as it climbs slowly. It reaches

the ground floor then the doors slide open. Driver finds himself

face to face with the pretty girl he saw the other night. She

looks a little startled to see him, then recovers

PRETTY GIRL (IRENE)

Hi...

She joins him in the elevator, carrying a grocery bag with some

milk and Fruit Loops cereal.

Which floor, ma'am?...

Fourth please...

Driver presses the fourth floor button even though it's already

lit. The doors shut and the elevator starts to climb. Driver

stares out quietly. Irene takes a glance at him, feeling awkward

in the silence. She looks relieved as the elevator doors finally

open. Driver steps aside to let her out first.

Thank you...

Driver and Irene walk down the corridor in the same direction,

only a few feet apart. She seems more aware of his presence than

he is of hers. She reaches the door to her apartment first.

Goodbye...

Goodbye, ma'am...

Driver looks at her just long enough not to seem impolite, then

continues down the corridor, not even glancing back.

Bright sunlight. In the distance we see a trail of dust moving

across the flatland. Everything is silent, then slowly the hum

of an engine rises as the stock car turns towards us. It

shimmers in the heat waves, the noise of its engine getting

louder as it picks up speed.

Shannon stands with his friend Bernie Rose at the edge of the

makeshift track, staring at the glittering car with its colorful

signage advertising everything from Snickers to Cheerios.

Looks like a chocolate bar. You're gonna

have to tell me if that's fast or slow

`cause I got no idea...

Shannon smiles to himself.

It ain't slow...

Even in the cramped space of the roll cage there's something

effortless about the way Driver controls the car. His eyes are

fixed in concentration, his body tensing only slightly as he

lifts his foot off the gas and turns the wheel.

The glinting vehicle is lost in a cloud of dust, then reappears

again, moving even faster now. The STOCK CAR'S OWNER, a bearded

hot-rodder with a t-shirt that says, "Drive it like you stole

it", joins Shannon with a confident smile.

STOCK CAR OWNER

Told you she was a beauty...

(Playing hard to get)

Maybe where you come from...

Bernie Rose pays no attention to their banter, his eyes fixed

thoughtfully on the stock car as it finally slows to a stop.

Driver climbs out of the car. As he looks up he sees Shannon

limping over with the stock car's owner, a couple of MECHANICS,

and Bernie Rose.

Looks a little long in the tooth to me.

Think we should take her home?...

Driver shrugs. Shannon grins, turning to Bernie now.

Bernie, this is the driver I been telling

you about...

One look at Bernie Rose and Driver senses the power and

authority behind his deceptively gentle eyes.

Bernie's thinking of investing in our race

team...

The old mobster holds out his hand, meeting Driver's gaze.

My hands are a little dirty.

Don't worry. So are mine...

He gives Driver a big grin and a warm handshake, sizing him up.

Driver smiles politely, gazing back at him. The stock car's

owner interrupts the moment between them, holding a stopwatch.

STOCK CAR OWNER

Couldn't see much wrong with that. You beat

the fastest lap by more than half a second.

You might wanna take a look at the

suspension before we go again.

(Turning back to Bernie)

Nice to meet you...

Bernie's still studying him.

You too...

Their eyes stay on each other, then Driver follows the stock car

owner and his mechanics back to the car. Bernie Rose stares

after him quietly, thinking to himself. Shannon can feel he's

getting interested.

You gonna give me the four?

I'll give you three for seventy percent...

Tinny supermarket music plays in the background. Driver walks

past the vast selection of instant coffee brands, bemused by the

choice. Suddenly he notices something out of the corner of his

eye. At the far end of the aisle his pretty neighbor, Irene, is

browsing through the confectionery section. Standing next to her

is a young boy of six or seven, (BENICIO). He grabs a multi-pack

of snickers and puts it in Irene's shopping basket. Irene calmly

picks it out, replaces it on the shelf, and takes a single

snicker bar for him instead. As Driver watches them, the boy

turns around and notices him. Driver heads down another aisle

before Irene sees him too, keeping to himself to himself.

Driver heads out of the supermarket with a small bag of

groceries when he spots Irene and Benicio again in the car park.

Irene sits in a battered Oldsmobile, trying to start the engine.

She tries several times then gets out in frustration, opening

the hood and peering at the engine she has no idea how to fix.

Benicio peers in too, trying to be helpful.

Driver hesitates, all his instincts telling him to continue to

his car and drive away, but as he feels Irene's increasing

frustration he can't help himself, finally heading over to help.

Irene looks over and sees him coming, surprised at first, then

smiling. We watch from a distance as they talk now.

Driver, Irene and Benicio stand in silence in the elevator,

Driver clutching some of Irene's grocery bags.

Driver carries Irene's grocery bags into the kitchen for her.

Where do you want me to put them?

Just over there. Thanks...

Driver places the bags on the kitchen counter.

Would you like something to drink?

I'm okay.

A glass of water?

Sure...

She pours him a glass of water and hands it to him.

Excuse me a second...

She walks out of the room, leaving Driver alone with Benicio.

The little boy stares at him fixedly.

Irene closes the bathroom door behind her, looking at herself in

the mirror, feeling a little uncertain.

Benicio's still staring at Driver. Feeling a little awkward,

Driver takes a long piece of string from his pocket, tugs it

gently, then holds up two pieces of string.

Benicio keeps staring at him, puzzled by the magic trick. Irene

walks back into the room, smiling.

You just move to LA?

No, I been here a while.

And before that?

Here and there...

(A gentle smile)

Too many questions, huh?...

Driver smiles back awkwardly, not sure how else to respond.

Irene switches on the TV for Benicio, sitting him down on the

couch.

Driver has a sip of water, glancing around the room. He notices

a few photographs on a side table. Most of them are of Benicio

and Irene, but one of them shows the little boy standing next to

a strikingly handsome Latino man.

Irene turns around and sees him looking at the picture.

That's Benicio's father.

Driver takes in the significance of this, then looks back at

her.

What's he do?

He's in jail.

I'm sorry.

(Changing the subject)

What do you do?

Driver hesitates.

I drive.

Like a limo driver?

No, for the movies...

You mean all those car chases and stuff?

He nods, a little embarrassed.

Isn't that dangerous?

He seems thrown by her concern.

It's just part-time. Most days I work in a

garage.

Where?

Reseda Boulevard.

You should tell Benicio you're a stunt guy.

He interested in that kind of stuff?

Aren't all little boys?

She smiles softly and he realizes she's teasing him.

BENICIO O/S

Mama, I don't like this...

Irene takes the remote and changes the channel for him. Driver

watches her quietly, then drains his glass of water.

Would you like another glass?

I should get going...

He catches the disappointment in her eyes, but she covers it

with another good humored smile.

Well, thank you for your help.

Thank you for the drink...

She takes his empty glass and walks him to the door.

Passing traffic roars by on the busy street. Irene and Benicio

are walking home from the bus stop, chatting happily. They look

like they've just come back from the beach, Irene carrying a

basket full of towels, Benicio clutching a dusty soccer ball.

Driver watches them from the window of his apartment, blowing

gently on a cup of coffee.

The reflection of passing neon rolls down the Camaro's

windscreen. Driver's cruising down Hollywood Boulevard, shut off

from the world outside, listening to `Purple Rain'. The HOOKERS

and HIPSTERS have taken over the streets while up above

airbrushed movie stars stare down from their lofty billboards.

It's early morning and Driver's been driving all night, unable

to sleep. He heads across the parking lot towards a garishly lit

mini-mall. Up ahead a small group of GANGBANGERS are hanging out

with intent. They see him coming and look over intimidatingly.

Driver's only reaction is to bunch his car keys in his hand, the

longest key sliding between his second and third fingers like a

weapon. The gangbangers don't see it but the unflinching look in

his eyes unnerves them and they look away, letting him pass.

Jukebox music plays in the bar and grill. Driver sits on his

own, working his way through a plate of bacon and eggs.

BEARDED REDNECK OFFSCREEN

Mind if I cut in?...

Driver looks up and sees a burly REDNECK with an unkempt beard

and a wrestler's physique. The redneck slides into the seat

opposite him.

You're Shannon's buddy, right? We met last

year. You drove me and my brother back from

Palm Springs...

Driver stares into the redneck's coked-up eyes, then looks back

down at his food.

Next run we hired another wheelman - I

spent six months in jail, my brother got

himself killed...

(He grins through yellowing teeth)

He wasn't much, mind you, just family...

Driver doesn't seem to hear him.

Thing is -

I'm not interested...

Driver looks up quietly, fixing him with his icy gaze. The

Redneck's smile slowly fades. He considers his response for a

moment, then decides against it, standing up.

Well, it's good to see you again...

Driver carries on eating as if the man didn't exist.

The loud stutter of an unhealthy engine. Shannon sits in the

second hand race car he bought in Montecito, revving the engine.

Sounds like a goddamn M-16...

Driver smiles, popping the hood. As Shannon limps out of the

vehicle he sees a battered Oldsmobile drive into the forecourt.

He takes one look at the owner, then runs his hand through his

white hair, breaking into a friendly smile.

Gorgeous day just got even nicer. How can I

help you, ma'am?

WOMAN'S VOICE O/S

I've got a problem with my car.

SHANNON O/S

I can imagine. That thing must be older

than I am...

Driver turns around in surprise now, recognizing Irene's voice.

Hi...

Hi...

A mischievous smile lights up Shannon's face as he watches them.

You boys and girls know each other?

We're neighbors.

I see...

Driver ignores the sly look in the old man's eyes.

So what seems to be the problem, ma'am?

Either it doesn't start or it stalls.

Well, why don't we park her over there and

take a look...

Driver is still watching Irene quietly.

I can come back later if you're busy...

He's busy, I'm not...

Shannon gives Driver another sly look as he takes her car keys.

The Oldsmobile's engine looks like it hasn't been serviced in

years. Shannon is bent over the hood.

...Just my opinion, but I think you should

consider buying a new car...

(With gentle irony)

That would be great...

She glances round and sees Benicio standing in the forecourt

with Driver, watching him work on his own car now.

Driver's so busy tuning the engine he hardly notices the boy.

His lack of interest finally gets a rise out of Benicio.

That thing doesn't work.

(Without looking round)

You think?

Benicio watches him sullenly, more intrigued than he lets on.

Drive it.

Okay. Get in the car...

Benicio considers a moment, then turns and calls out to Irene.

Mama, can I go in the car?!

Irene looks over in surprise, not sure what to say.

Driver and Benicio sit in the Chevelle, driving in silence.

Your mom said you like movies?

Sometimes.

Ever see the Terminator?

No.

Grease?

Benicio shakes his head.

Wanna see where it was shot?

Shannon's got his tool kit out, examining the Olds. Irene looks

at the forecourt but there's no sign of Driver and her son.

How long has he been working for you?

Don't worry, ma'am, your son'll be fine.

I didn't mean it like that...

Shannon smiles to himself, sensing her interest in Driver.

We been together about five years now. He

showed up out of the blue one day, no

references or nothin', asking me for a job.

I offered him half the wages I normally pay

and he didn't even blink. Been exploiting

him ever since...

Only thing he knows is cars...

The car roars along the drainage canals. In the passenger seat

Benicio looks tense but exhilarated. The car glides past a

landscape of abandoned shopping carts, garbage bags, and

shredded tires, picking up speed all the time.

Driver's parked the car now in an area of the drainage canal

which looks like an oasis. He leans against the vehicle, soft

rock playing on his radio as he watches Benicio climb a tree.

Benicio is asleep in the back of Driver's car now. Driver's

giving him and Irene a ride back to their apartment. Irene looks

at Driver, waiting for him to say something, but he keeps his

eyes fixed on the road.

Cradling the sleeping Benicio in his arms Driver lays him down

on his bed. Irene takes off her son's clothes and puts on his

pyjamas, careful not to wake him. Driver slips out of the room,

uncomfortable with the intimate moment between mother and son.

Irene walks out of the bedroom, smiling at Driver gratefully.

Thank you for today. He had a great time...

I'm glad...

He stares back at her in the silence, both of them looking a

little uncertain.

I'm sorry if I put you on the spot, you

know, just showing up like that...

Don't worry...

Their eyes stay on each other, the attraction palpable. Driver

finally breaks the tension, making a tentative move towards the

door. Irene opens it for him, looking up into his eyes. Driver

knows he could kiss her, wants to, but something inside holds

him back. Instead he just offers his help.

You need a ride anywhere over the weekend

I'm not doing much...

Benicio sits in a dentist's chair, looking nervous. Irene sits

beside him, mimicking his expression, trying to make him relax.

Irene emerges with Benicio from the dentists. The little boy is

clutching his mouth, making a show of being in pain. Irene

teases him gently as they walk. Driver waits for them in his

car, watching them quietly.

Soft rock plays on the car radio. Irene sits in the passenger

seat with a smile. Driver looks at her curiously as he drives,

no idea why she's grinning. Benicio suddenly leans forward and

changes the radio to a different station -- hard rock blaring

out. Driver lets it go for a moment, then changes it back.

Benicio responds, until it becomes a game, Irene laughing now.

The roar of machinery. We see quick shots of Driver's day in the

garage -- fixing cars, taking out some fruit he's left to ripen

in his tool box for lunch, working on more engines and frames.

At the end of the day Driver and Shannon examine the stock car.

...I still can't believe I bought this

piece of shit...

He grins, looking at Driver.

I thought maybe we'd take her for a run

Thursday or Friday.

I can't make Friday.

Yeah? Why's that?

I told Irene I'd drive her to Burbank.

Irene, huh?

You're seeing quite a lot of the young

lady.

You're taking a long time to fix her car...

On the TV, a Japanese cartoon is playing, a masked hero

confronting the villains, the screen flickering from color to

black and white. Driver and Benicio sit on the couch, watching

the cartoon. From their relaxed body language it's clear some

time has passed and they know each other a little better.

What's happening now?

He's telling him if he doesn't leave the

earth alone he'll fight him.

Irene calls out from her bedroom.

IRENE O/S

I'm almost ready...

Driver looks back at the screen. Werewolves appear now,

surrounding the hero.

Looks like he's in trouble.

He's okay.

Just as the fight begins the color on the TV screen flickers.

I'm gonna show you another trick...

Benicio watches curiously as Driver gets off the couch and

kneels beside the TV.

This is pretty complicated. You watching?

Benicio nods. Driver suddenly gives the TV set a hard smack and

the interference stops.

Think you can remember that?...

Benicio grins. Driver smiles back then looks away as he hears

the phone ring. Irene walks out of her bedroom, dressed in her

waitress's uniform, and answers it.

Hello?...Yes?...Yes, this is she...

Driver sees the look of surprise on Irene's face as she listens

to the voice on the other end. The doorbell suddenly rings.

Irene catches Driver's eye and asks him to open it. He heads

over, checks the spy-hole, then opens the door. A YOUNG WOMAN

who's sitting for Benicio walks in, looking at Driver curiously.

YOUNG WOMAN (IRENE'S FRIEND)

Hi...

Hello...

Hi Cindy...

Irene's friend heads past Driver and scolds Benicio

affectionately.

It's 8:30. Teeth. Pyjamas. TV off.

It's not the TV. It's a DVD...

Driver looks back at Irene now. She puts down the phone, forcing

a smile but still looking distracted.

Irene sits next to Driver in the passenger seat, staring out of

the window at the glittering fountain in Echo Park.

I've never come this way before...

It's a short cut...

The park looks pretty at night...

She looks at Driver, watching him quietly, then looks away

again.

You okay?...

Irene takes a long time to answer, still staring out of the

window.

That was my husband's lawyer on the phone.

He's getting an early release...

She tries to sound casual. Driver takes the news quietly, even

though it hits him like a sledgehammer.

That's great...

I'm happy for Benicio...

Driver knows she's trying to explain herself but doesn't say

anything, driving in silence.

Up ahead the traffic lights turn red and the car slows to a

stop.

Inside, the silence is unbearable. Irene pauses, then looks at

Driver. He's even more handsome in the shadowy half-light,

something achingly lonely and melancholy about his stillness.

She hesitates, then moves her hand towards his, brushing the

back of his hand, then slipping her fingers between his.

The gesture is tiny but charged with emotion. They both stare

out in silence, fingers clasped, then Irene gently withdraws her

hand, as if nothing's happened.

Outside the lights change to green.

The sound of laughter. A sign over the door says, Welcome home

Dad. Inside the apartment there's a small party going on.

Irene's husband, STANDARD, has been released from jail and his

FRIENDS and FAMILY are here to celebrate. Holding Benicio in his

arms he makes a thank you speech to his guests.

...I'm touched and grateful that you're all

here today -- even though I know it's

probably for the food not me...

His self-deprecating humor gets a chorus of laughter and

agreement from the guests. Irene is standing next to her friend

Cindy, looking a little uncomfortable.

...Anyhow, now that I've completed my MBA

in catering from Chino Business School...

Irene, Benicio and I are finally going to

get our lives back together...

He raises his glass to her.

I'd like to thank my wife for being the

smartest, most beautiful, most patient and

loyal woman I know...

More applause. Irene stares back at Standard's handsome face,

feeling even more uncomfortable.

Driver lies on his bed, gazing up at the ceiling, listening to

the sound of the party echoing down the corridor.

It's nighttime and the party's getting louder. Standard's on the

phone to someone, trying to hear them over the music.

I'm sorry, I can't hear you...

He heads into the bedroom to take the call. The voice on the

other end is accented and unfriendly.

MAN'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

Can you hear me now, you cunt?

Standard pauses, looking concerned.

Sure.

MAN'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

You're gonna come see me tomorrow, you

understand?...

Across the crowded room, Irene is looking for Standard. She sees

him in the bedroom, switching off his phone, and heads over.

Benicio wants you to put him to bed.

Okay.

He gives her a warm smile.

Who was that on the phone?

My parole officer. He thinks he may have

found me a job.

The noise of the party is finally too much for Driver. He gets

off the bed and slips on his jacket.

Irene is finding the party overwhelming too. She heads out into

the corridor to have a cigarette when she sees Driver across the

hallway, locking the door to his own apartment. She hesitates,

then calls out.

Hey...

He turns around and sees her standing there with a smile.

I'm sorry about the noise. I was going to

leave a note under your door warning you we

were having a party.

Don't worry. I won't complain.

I wish you would. Maybe the cops'd show up

and send everybody home.

Their eyes stay on each other, the music pounding in the

background.

The car works great by the way. Hasn't

stalled once.

I'm glad.

Another awkward silence, so much she wants to say but can't.

Listen, if you're hungry we got plenty of

Suddenly she turns around as she hears her apartment door open.

Standard stands there with Benicio, holding a bag of trash. He

pauses, then smiles.

I thought if we emptied the trash everyone

would get the message and go home...

He grins at his wife, then looks over at Driver, his smile

hiding whatever he feels inside.

You're the new neighbor, right? Benicio's

told me all about you...

Driver seems unsure how to respond.

He's a great kid.

I can't take any of the credit. He's got a

great mother.

Standard rests his hand gently on Benicio's head, still staring

at Driver.

He tells me you drive for the movies?

Yeah.

Must be pretty good?

I get by.

Not like a nine to five gig, huh?...

He's still smiling but there's a slight edge to his voice. Irene

looks uncomfortable.

You want me to take that?

No, we got it.

His eyes are still fixed on Driver.

You want to come in, join us for a drink?

I've got some things to do.

At this hour of night?

Standard, he's busy...

Standard doesn't respond, still holding Driver's gaze.

Well, if we're still going by the time

you're back you know where we are. It's

good to meet you...

He slips his arm around his son now and continues down the

corridor, brushing past Driver on his way to empty the trash.

Driver looks at Irene, then heads off in the same direction as

Standard and Benicio to take the elevator. The two men stand

there in charged silence, one emptying the trash, the other

waiting for the elevator, only Benicio oblivious to the tension.

Brooding movie stars look down from the billboards. Driver is in

his car now, soft rock playing on the radio.

Standard is helping his son get ready for school, interacting

with him affectionately. Irene watches them from the doorway,

looking thoughtful.

Anonymous streets roll by, Driver's eyes fixed on the road.

Standard, Irene and Benicio are having dinner at a Chuck E.

Cheese restaurant. We still sense the distance between Standard

and Irene, but Benicio seems completely unaware of it, talking

excitedly as he eats his pizza. Standard reaches out and takes

Irene's hand gently as he listens to his son.

A noise of hammering and drills. The corporate signage has been

scraped off the race car and the seats ripped out. Bernie Rose

has bought his partner Nino to the garage to take a look at his

investment.

...We paid three hundred fucking grand for

this?

I paid for it. Out of my own pocket.

Anyway, that's just the shell. You start

with the shell, then you build the frame,

then the motor.

(Pointing to an engine nearby)

I paid three hundred for that. The money

goes on the inside not the outside.

Fuck that. If I'm gonna blow three hundred

I wanna make sure everyone can see it. Go

waste your money on something else...

Shannon smiles nervously, worried Nino's going to sabotage his

deal with Bernie.

(Pointing to a Thunderbird)

...How about that fucking pussy mobile over

there.

You buy it. Shannon sell him the car...

At the far end of the garage Driver hears them laughing, too

busy working on his car to pay any attention. Shannon opens the

door of the Thunderbird and invites Nino to take a seat.

Try her out. She's more comfortable than a

water bed.

I already got a fucking water bed.

He sits heavily in the car and starts prodding and pressing all

the control buttons as if he wants to break them.

What does this fucking thing do?

Windshield wipers.

How about this little clit? I don't know

whether to fuck it or drive it. Fuck it,

I'll drive it...

Bernie Rose shakes his head at his partner's foul language then

looks away, observing Driver quietly.

Driver applies a blow torch to his car, so absorbed in his work

he doesn't hear Bernie Rose approach.

BERNIE ROSE O/S

How you doing?...

Driver hears him and turns off the blow torch, standing up

respectfully. Bernie Rose gives him a friendly smile.

So, when's our first race?

Soon.

You gonna be ready?

There's something gently challenging in his gaze.

I hope so...

Cautious man. Like myself. Don't wanna make

promises you can't keep...

Driver smiles but doesn't respond. Bernie Rose finds him as hard

to talk to as everyone else. Across the garage, Nino sits in the

T-Bird with Shannon, still fucking with him. Bernie watches

them.

He ever tell you how we met?

Driver shakes his head.

I did some producing back in the 80's.

Interesting pictures. Kind of European.

Shannon arranged the cars for us and did

all the stunts. I knew he was overcharging

me but I loved having him around. His next

business venture he tried the same thing

with some of Nino's friends they broke his

spine. He never had much luck...

He's about to continue when they're interrupted by a familiar

voice.

STANDARD O/S

Hey!...

Driver turns around and sees Irene's husband, Standard, heading

towards him with a confident smile.

You got a minute? I want to -

We're talking...

Bernie Rose barely raises his voice but it's full of quiet

menace and authority. Standard pauses, stung, but instinctively

senses this is someone you don't mess with.

I'll wait outside...

Bernie Rose watches him leave with a look of contempt, then

turns back to Driver with a smile, resuming their conversation.

The reason I'm telling you this is because

he's got a lot invested in you. So do I...

Their eyes stay on each other with just a hint of tension.

Anything you need just let me know...

Driver nods. Bernie Rose studies him a moment, then finally

walks away.

Driver joins Standard in the forecourt of the garage, the midday

sun blazing down on them.

Irene told me you'd fixed our car. How much

do I owe you?

Don't worry about it.

I do worry. I like to pay my debts.

Driver senses the quiet pride in his voice, and lets it go.

Call it fifty.

Standard counts out some bills from his tattered wallet, his

eyes lowered.

I was thinking of trading her in for a new

car. Something fast and cheap.

You can't have both.

Alright then, fast.

Even though he smiles Driver senses just a hint of tension on

his handsome face.

(Pointing to a car)

Something like that Buick over there'll

cost you nine grand but there isn't much

point in a city where you can't drive

faster than sixty five.

Standard considers the car a moment, something clearly bothering

him, then looks back at Driver.

You must think I'm an asshole?

Driver isn't sure what he's getting at.

I wouldn't know.

Well, I am. Six months inside for holding

somebody else's stolen shit...

He smiles ironically, his gaze still fixed on Driver.

I appreciate what you did for my family

when I was away but I don't plan to fuck up

a second time...

It's a thinly veiled message that he's back and here to stay.

Driver stares back at him when Shannon emerges from the garage

with Bernie Rose and Nino, calling out.

Hey, kid! Come say goodbye, the money

people are leaving!...

Driver and Standard stare at each other a moment longer then

Driver breaks off.

Excuse me.

See you around...

Driver walks off, leaving Standard alone with his thoughts.

Shannon watches Standard curiously as Driver approaches.

Who was that?

Irene's husband.

What did I tell you about married women?

Nino can't resist another dig at Shannon.

What the fuck do you know about married

women?

Can you for once say something without the

word fuck in it?

As they continue their banter, Driver glances at Standard. He's

walking back to his car, dialling someone on his cell phone.

Passing traffic blurs past. Through the windows of a Mexican

restaurant we see Irene at work, serving tables in her

waitress's uniform.

Driver's parked across the street, watching her from his car. He

hesitates, conflicted, then finally gets out of the car.

Irene walks out of the kitchen with a tray of food, then stops

as she sees Driver sitting at a booth. She looks surprised to

see him, but pleased, serving her table first then heading over.

Hi...

Hi...

Their eyes stay on each other, oblivious to the noise.

We haven't seen you around in a while. You

must have been pretty busy?...

You look pretty busy yourself...

She smiles, glancing at the tables she's supposed to serve.

What can I get you?

I already ate. I just wanted to see how you

were?

His concern touches her and makes her uncomfortable at the same

time.

We're okay. Standard thinks he may have

found a job so I can give up my night

shift...

Driver stares back at her with his intense gaze.

Benicio misses you...

From the way she says it she could almost be talking about

herself.

He keeps asking me to invite you for

dinner...

I'd like that...

His gentle gaze is finally too much for her. She grins, excusing

herself.

I better serve some food...

It's only when she has her back turned that we see how hard this

is for her. Driver watches her walk away, lost in thought.

Irene piles some plates of tacos on her tray, bracing herself to

go back out and face Driver -- but when she finally walks out

again he's no longer there.

Driver leans out of his car window and inserts a key to open the

gates of the underground car park.

As Driver descends into the darkness of the car park, he sees a

group of SHADOWY FIGURES walking in the opposite direction,

heading up the ramp, one of them being pushed in a wheelchair.

Their leader, a large, balding man, (COOK), glances in Driver's

direction then looks away.

Driver cruises past the mysterious group and winds his way

further down the car park. Suddenly he notices something else in

the shadows. A figure lies sprawled against one of the pillars.

A smaller figure kneels a few feet away. Driver stops his car

now, climbing out to see what's happened.

The prone figure groans in pain. As Driver approaches he

realizes it's Standard. His face is covered in blood and he

clutches his ribs. The smaller figure is Benicio. He stares at

his father helplessly, then looks up at Driver in tears. Driver

kneels beside Standard, checking nothing's broken.

Can you move?

Where's Benicio?

He's right here...

Driver glances at Benicio. He looks terrified. Standard raises

his head painfully and looks at his son.

It's okay, Benicio. I'm okay...

Driver watches the boy struggling to hold back his tears.

Don't say anything to your mother, you

understand? This is between you and me.

Benicio nods, too choked-up to speak. Standard turns to Driver.

Can I use your bathroom to clean up? I

don't want Irene to come home and see me

like this...

Standard is bent over the sink, splashing water on his face. As

he turns off the tap he notices how neatly Driver's laid out his

toothbrush, shaving cream, and razor. He finally turns around

and looks at Driver.

Thanks. Sorry about getting all this blood

everywhere...

He's still shaken but tries to pass it off with a smile.

Fucking punks took me by surprise...

Driver watches him, unconvinced.

Fucking punks didn't look like they needed

to...

Standard looks at him in surprise now.

You saw them, huh?...

Driver doesn't answer, waiting for him to continue. Standard

hesitates, still not sure whether to trust him.

You ever been inside?

Why?

Standard takes another glance at the items laid out neatly by

the sink.

I owed some protection money in the joint.

Driver begins to see how worried he is.

How much?

They want twenty thousand. I told them I

couldn't pay so they want me to do a job

for them...

Is that why you need a car?

Standard stares back at him.

What did you say you were inside for?

I didn't.

A beat, then he finally opens up.

It's a pawn shop in the valley. I tried to

back out tonight, they said they'd come

after Irene and Benicio next time...

Driver stares at him in surprise now, more concerned than he

shows.

Why don't you take them away?

Where would I go? Irene finds out I fucked

up again I'll lose everything...

He sounds upset, angry with himself.

This lousy job's my only way out...

Driver stares at his battered face and the blood stains on his t-

shirt, then walks out of the bathroom to check on Benicio.

Benicio is watching a baseball game on TV, his back to Driver.

You okay?

The little boy nods without turning round, still frightened by

his ordeal.

You want something to drink?

Benicio shakes his head, trying to hide his tears. Driver heads

over, then stops as he notices something in Benicio's hand. The

little boy is clutching it as if he's afraid to let go.

What have you got there?...

Benicio holds out his hand to reveal a small bullet. Driver

stares at it, then looks at him.

Who gave you that?...

One of those men. He told me not to lose

it...

Driver gazes at the little boy's frightened face in concern now,

his eyes faraway, thinking to himself.

An outdoor food shack in a park. COOK, the leader of the group

of men who beat Standard up in the parking lot, sits at a table

with his girlfriend, BLANCHE, a stunning blonde with short

cropped hair.

I've got you to do this fucking job for me,

why do I need to pay someone else?

Standard sits next to Driver, holding his ground even though

he's clearly intimidated by the Albanian.

I'll pay him out of what's left of my

share. I can't do something like this on my

own.

You got Blanche...

He grins, looking at Driver now. Blanche doesn't even seem to

hear them, hung-over from the previous night.

You look like you're hard to work with?

Not if we understand each other.

What's to understand? It's my score. Either

you sign on or you don't.

Driver stares at him quietly, finding it hard to conceal his

contempt.

I drive. That's all I do.

Blanche gets up from the table before Cook can respond.

Where are you going?

They've forgotten my Coke.

They'll bring it. Sit down.

(His eyes still fixed on Driver)

Standard, why don't you hire a fucking taxi

cab?

He didn't mean it like that, man...

Standard looks worried, trying to diffuse the tension.

So, what does he mean?

Driver looks him calmly in the eye.

You tell me where we start, where we're

headed, where we'll be going afterwards. I

don't take part, I don't carry weapons, I

drive...

Standard seems surprised by Driver's professional patter. So

does Cook. Even Blanche looks interested for once.

Standard, get Blanche her coca cola.

Standard hesitates, but has no choice. As he leaves to fetch

Blanche her drink, Cook starts to write something down on the

palm of his hand.

Okay, here's the deal. This much for

Blanche, this much for that asshole minus

what he owes me, and this much for you...

He holds up the palm of his hand to Driver, the words Fuck Off

written in marker pen.

You still interested?

Driver looks at him, all his instincts telling him to walk away,

but he stays where he is, thinking of Irene and Benicio.

Good. Anything else?...

Driver stares back at him with his clear blue eyes.

We do this job he's paid his debt. You

leave him and his family alone...

Cook looks surprised at first, then laughs at his nerve.

Whatever you say, boss...

The midday sun beats down on a maze of cars. Driver strolls past

rows of glittering vehicles until he spots an old model Mustang.

Driver sits at the dinner table with Standard, Irene and Benicio

now. Standard's in high spirits, beaming at his wife.

...I was such a jerk the first time we met.

We're at this party and I see the most

beautiful girl I ever laid eyes on and I

walk over and say, `Hello Miss, my name's

Standard Guzman'. She takes one look at me

and asks, `Where's the deluxe version?'...

It took me like a minute to get it...

Irene smiles awkwardly, glancing at Driver. Benicio grins, eager

to please his dad.

You don't get it either do you, Benicio?

Hope you didn't inherit your Papa's brains.

He ruffles his son's hair then pours himself another shot of

tequila. Irene notices he's drinking, turning to Driver.

Would you like some more chicken?

Thanks...

Their eyes stay on each as she serves him. Standard sees the

look between them but his only reaction is to drain his glass

and tuck into his food.

Now this is what I call a deluxe chicken.

Irene and I are gonna open a restaurant

together once I raise the money. That's why

she's working in that Mexican joint. Figure

out how it's done. She's got more ambition

than anyone I know, more smarts too...

(He raises his glass)

We're gonna drive all those fucking

Mexicans out of business -

Excuse my language, Benicio...

(Changing the subject)

How's the movie going?...

Fine...

Irene looks at Standard as he pours himself another drink.

Don't you think that's enough?

Come on, we're celebrating. I've got my

family around me and our new friend...

He raises his glass to Driver now. Driver senses how nervous he

is about the job ahead, and how uncomfortable he is depending on

someone his wife clearly admires.

Are you working on anything else?

Stop asking the poor guy all these

Then why don't you go ahead and talk for

all of us.

All right, I will. This time next week I'm

gonna take you and Benicio away with me...

Irene stops and looks at him in surprise.

Where you wanna go, Benicio?...

His quiet confidence concerns her even more.

Disneyland.

Forget Disneyland. I'm gonna take you and

your mother away from this bullshit city -

Benicio, it's time for bed -

Your papa's got it all figured out -

Benicio, you heard me -

It's okay. I'll take him...

Standard gets up from the table, lifting Benicio up in his arms

and carrying him back to his bedroom. Driver watches them. Even

in this kind of mood Standard's clearly devoted to his son.

Irene waits until they're gone, then turns back to Driver.

I'm sorry.

Don't worry...

She hesitates, torn, then looks up at him again, needing to

confide in someone.

Every time he makes that speech about

taking me and Benicio away from here he's

in some kind of trouble...

Driver sees the deep concern in her eyes and feels even more

torn. Irene gets up, clearing away some plates.

Driver strides through the parking lot and climbs in his car.

Driver sits in the car as if it's his retreat from the world. He

stares out, then turns on a stop watch, listening to it tick,

finding his balance again in the familiarity of the ritual.

The pawn shop is nothing much to look at from the outside,

another anonymous LA store front. Driver's parked the car a

hundred yards from the entrance, his police scanner crackling.

Standard sits beside him in the passenger seat, looking tense.

You don't have to do this.

(Forcing a smile)

What are you talking about?

He tries to make light of it but doesn't sound convincing. Out

of his window he sees Blanche cross the street and enter the

pawn shop and looks even more nervous now.

Irene and Benicio think the world of you,

you know that, right?...

Driver glances at him, sensing his anxiety.

Say something happens to me, you think you

could find a way to take care of them?...

Standard's still staring ahead, but Driver can sense his fear.

It's not too late...

Standard considers a moment, then shakes his head.

I gotta do this for them...

He forces a smile, slips on his sunglasses, then finally opens

the door.

You got five minutes...

I'll see you in four...

Driver watches him cross the street with a strong sense of

foreboding. Standard enters the pawn shop. Driver starts his

stopwatch now, listening to the seconds tick away.

He casts his eyes around the street, observing the smallest

details -- the number plates of other vehicles; the windows of

overlooking buildings.

The white hot sun blazes down, reflecting on the pawn shop

windows, hiding everything inside.

The police scanner crackles but picks up no activity. Driver

listens to his stop watch, in his own world. He starts the

engine and sets off, cruising slowly past the pawn shop, heading

for the corner where he told Standard he'd be waiting.

He pulls over by the curb when suddenly he notices something.

Parked a hundred yards down the road he sees another vehicle

glinting in the sunlight. To the ordinary eye it's no different

from the other cars parked nearby, but to Driver it stands out.

For one, it's a Chrysler. Secondly, it has reinforced bumpers

and racing tires.

Driver's stopwatch shows four minutes now. He looks away from

the Chrysler, gazing at the doors of the pawn shop, expecting

Standard and Blanche to burst out at any moment.

But there's no sign of them.

The seconds tick away. Five minutes. Driver hesitates, all his

instincts telling him to drive off, but he stays where he is,

thinking of Irene.

Suddenly he sees Standard and Blanche emerge from the pawn shop,

Standard clutching a big black gym bag in his hand.

He smiles at Driver as he approaches when suddenly he hears the

crack of gunshots behind him. Driver sees the look of panic on

his face as he spins around.

A GUY IN A SUIT strides out of the pawn shop. Crouching low in

an expert firing position he squeezes off several shots. The

force of the bullets sends Standard flying.

Driver sees him hit the sidewalk, arterial blood pumping from

his neck. Blanche screams, grabbing the gym bag and leaping into

the back seat of the car. Driver hesitates, takes one last look

at Standard's lifeless body, then hits the gas as more gunshots

crack behind him.

As Driver's car roars down the street, the Chrysler suddenly

comes to life, pulling out of its parking place.

Driver glances in his rear-view mirror and sees the Chrysler on

his tail. It doesn't seem to be trying to close the gap, just

following at a discreet distance. In the back seat, Blanche zips

open the gym bag, then stares in shock.

...Christ, there wasn't supposed to be this

much money!...

There are literally stacks of hundred dollar bills crammed

inside the gym bag. Driver catches her reaction in the mirror,

but his attention is focussed on the Chrysler. Up ahead, at an

intersection, the lights turn red. Driver thinks about running

them, but decides against it, braking sharply. The Chrysler

draws up beside him, its windows glinting in the sunlight.

Move for Chrissakes!...

Driver ignores her, still watching the Chrysler out of the

corner of his eye. The lights change to green but Driver doesn't

move. Nor does the Chrysler. Behind them, other cars start

honking their horns. Suddenly Driver roars off, swerving left at

speed.

The Chrysler reacts, screeching off in pursuit.

Driver floors the gas. On speed and power his vehicle may be no

match for the Chrysler, but in traffic the odds are even. He

weaves his way past the slower cars, putting obstacles between

himself and the Chrysler. The pursuing car matches him move for

move, staying on his tail.

In the back seat, Blanche looks terrified, buckling herself in.

Driver swerves left then suddenly makes a hard right onto a

deserted canyon road. The mustang somehow manages to make

the same turn. It gets close enough to "pit" Driver, its nose

pressing against the rear corner of Driver's vehicle.

Driver's almost run off the road, but manages to save it and

regains control of his car.

The Mustang pulls out wide to build momentum and smash into

him. As it moves in to deliver the knockout blow, Driver

pulls the Emergency Brake and spins 180 degrees, causing the

Mustang to miss and lose control for a brief moment.

Now the two cars are nose to nose, barrelling down the road,

Driver heading in reverse as fast as he can, the Mustang

closing fast.

It rams Driver's front bumper. BAM! The two cars separated

for an instant.

The Mustang guns it, ready to smash into Driver again...

Driver clocks an upcoming three way intersection dotted with

construction equipment. In a last ditch attempt to evade his

pursuer he throws a reverse 180, then incredibly keeps going,

spinning 270 degrees.

The Mustang tries to make the same turn, but this time the

maneuver is beyond his ability. Driver's suckered him into a

corner he can't control.

The Mustang crashes into the construction equipment in a

sickening crunch of metal on metal.

Driver guns the motor and speeds away.

Purple neon spills onto the forecourt of a seedy motel.

The black gym bag lies open on a double bed, full to the brim

with stacks of cash. Blanche sits on the bed, looking pale.

How much did Cook tell you you could expect

to net?

Forty Grand...

She glances at the bag, staring at how much more money there is.

Driver switches on the cheap TV set with the remote, flicking

through the news channels. There's no mention of the robbery

yet. He zips up the bag and heads out.

Stay here. Don't answer the door...

Blanche nods, too shaken to protest.

Driver hesitates, then dials a number on his cell-phone. Benicio

answers.

BENICIO'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

Hello?...

Driver hears the tremor in his voice.

Benicio?...

BENICIO'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

Yeah?...

Is your mom there?...

There's an uncomfortable silence. Driver can feel the little boy

trying to hold it together.

BENICIO'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

She's talking to the police...

In the living room we can see Irene sitting on the couch with a

male and female POLICE OFFICER, looking dazed, taking in the

news of Standard's death.

Driver pauses, still on the phone to Benicio.

Tell her I'll call later...

A soap opera plays on the TV. Driver walks back into the motel

room. Blanche lies on the bed, looking more relaxed. Driver

picks up the remote and flicks through the channels until he

finally finds a breaking news story on the robbery. There is a

police mug-shot of Standard on screen.

...The armed robber was pronounced dead at

the scene. He was identified as Standard

Guzman of Echo Park, Los Angeles...

Driver listens to the report in silence. Blanche seems upset

again, confronted with the reality of what's happened.

...Other details are unclear but the owner

of the pawn shop told reporters that the

robber had no accomplices and that the

items he'd taken had been recovered. In

other news...

Driver switches off the TV, staring at the blank screen in

surprise. He turns to Blanche.

The guy saw you grab the money and jump in

the car -- why didn't he say anything?

I've no idea.

Any idea there'd be another car waiting?

This time she takes a fraction too long to answer.

I already told you everything -

Driver suddenly slaps her -- hard.

You just got a little kid's father killed.

You think I won't hurt you?

He raises his hand to slap her again and this time she talks,

tears welling in her eyes.

...Cook told me another car would hold us

up...but he never said anything about this

much money or anyone getting killed...

Driver stares at her quietly, beginning to put the pieces

together in his head.

You were gonna rip us off and split the

take?

She nods guiltily.

How long have you known him?

Just a couple months. We were fooling

around. I've never been mixed up in

anything like this -

You know his real name?

He told me it was Chris, but I just called

him Cook.

You're going to take me to him right now,

you understand?

She nods, terrified, tears running down her face.

....Can I go wash up?...

Driver nods distractedly, his mind racing. Blanche heads over to

the bathroom.

As she disappears inside Driver notices something on the bed

where she's just been lying. It's her cell phone. Still flipped

open as if she's called someone recently.

Driver reaches for the cell phone when he notices the silhouette

of a MAN crossing the curtains. Someone's outside. The door

handle of the motel room starts to turn, slowly -- then suddenly

there's the roar of a shotgun from the bathroom.

Driver reacts in an instant, rushing towards the bathroom door.

He has to barge it open, something obstructing his way.

Driver almost trips over Blanche's sprawled body as he bursts

through. One quick glance and he knows she's dead - half her

head blown off. Another quick glance and he sees her killer, a

big burly HITMAN, trying to climb through the same bathroom

window where he just shot her.

Driver moves like lightning, grabbing the man's arms before he

can get off another shot and pulling him through the window. The

hitman lands heavily in a sea of broken glass, cutting his

forehead open, blinded momentarily by the blood in his eyes.

Driver takes his opportunity and slams the man's face back into

the glass strewn floor, stunning him for a few more seconds as

they struggle. Crawling away, he grabs the towel rack and pulls

the metal bar off the wall. Using it as a spear he impales the

hitman and grabs his shotgun.

In the bedroom, the 2nd HITMAN finally kicks the door open.

Driver bursts through the bathroom door at the same time --

firing the 1st shooter's shotgun. The force of the blast picks

up the 2nd hitman and flings him against the wall like a rag

doll.

The startling explosion of violence is over just as suddenly as

it began. Driver slumps to the floor in exhaustion, his hand and

his arm ripped open by the broken glass. There's blood splatter

all over the wall. Neon lights from outside flashing on the dead

man's face. But no panicked footsteps or sirens yet.

Driver crawls over to the dead hitman and rifles through his

pockets. All he finds are a set of car keys.

Shannon stands in his office, listening silently on the phone,

looking like he's been punched in the gut.

Why didn't you tell me?...

All he hears is silence on the other end.

Well, I guess it's done now...

He leans back against a car.

How big's the take?...

DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

One million I guess...

Jesus...

He looks dazed by the thought of so much money.

You better bring it over.

DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

I'm hurt. I need a doctor to patch me up...

I'll take care of it...

An underworld doctor, "DOC", a shabbily dressed old man who

looks well past his prime takes out a small bottle of scotch

along with his surgical tools, preparing for Driver's arrival.

Shannon watches him uncertainly then heads downstairs as he

hears a noise in the garage.

Shannon arrives downstairs to see Driver walking unsteadily

towards him in the gloom. Shannon can't help glancing at his

hands, expecting him to be carrying the bag with the money, but

there's no sign of it.

Scissoring Driver's blood soaked shirt away Doc examines the

shards of glass embedded in his arm, then notices the deep scars

running down his back.

...Looks like you got more metal inside you

than a ten ton truck...

(His hand shakes)

You'd be better off with a mechanic not a

medic...

Driver looks up at him warily from Shannon's pull out bed.

Relax. Just having my fun with you...

Doc picks up his bottle of scotch from among his bowls of

Peroxide and Betadine, takes a drink, then offers it to Driver.

Take a hit off that. Chances are you'll

need it...

Driver shakes his head, closing his eyes. Shannon watches him

quietly, concerned for him but also curious about the money.

What did you do with the cash?

It's safe.

Shannon hesitates, but can't help himself.

You want me to look after it for you?

Driver doesn't answer, gritting his teeth as Doc pulls out the

largest shard of glass.

Just think what we could do with all that

Two guys just tried to kill me for it. I

want to find out who it belongs to first...

Shannon nods, coming back down to earth.

This guy Cook got a real name?...

Maybe Chris. Probably not...

I'll ask Bernie if he's heard of him...

Driver grimaces again as Doc pulls out another shard of glass.

I wish you'd talked to me first...

Driver doesn't reply, his eyes fixed on the ceiling.

Lotta guys fall for other mens' wives, but

you're the only one I know robs a joint to

make it up to the husband...

An elegant apartment full of framed photographs of beautiful

grandchildren and movie posters from Hollywood's golden age.

Bernie is in his silk pyjamas, looking like he's just woken up.

You want some coffee?

No, thanks...

Shannon looks tense but tries to hide it. From next door they

can hear the sound of raised voices. Bernie Rose grabs the TV

remote and turns up the volume to drown out his neighbors.

They've been going at it ever since they

moved in. She's such a nice lady but it's a

lousy Shidach. It's a wonder they haven't

killed each other...

So, what's your interest in the Seventh

Heaven?

Shannon doesn't understand, looking confused.

It's a strip joint on La Cienega. Your

friend Cook runs it. Why're you curious

about him all of a sudden?

Even though they're close, Shannon's wary of giving away too

much information.

A friend of mine owes him some money. I was

wondering if you knew him?

Yeah, I know him. He's a crazy Albanian. If

I were your friend I'd pay up.

Bernie Rose pours himself a cup of coffee in the kitchenette.

You wake me up this early this friend must

be a close friend?

Yeah...

How's our car by the way?

We're all set for next month.

And our driver?

He's doing great.

That's what you should worry about...

Shannon smiles back but Bernie senses how distracted he is.

You want my advice? Let your friend work it

out for himself. Don't take pills for other

people's headaches...

You got twenty minutes? I need you to run

down to the market and get me some milk...

Sunlight pours through a doorway. Driver heads down some stairs,

passing some half naked STRIPPERS at the bar. There's a handful

of CLIENTS watching a pole dance, but otherwise the place is

empty. Driver turns down a long corridor. A couple of STRIPPERS

emerge from their changing room, surprised to see him, but he

puts them at ease with a friendly smile.

Cook moved office again?

That one over there...

Driver smiles gratefully, then heads towards an office at the

end of the corridor. He knocks on the door. A voice calls back.

COOK O/S

It's open...

Driver takes a hammer out of his jacket, then starts turning the

door handle as if he can't get in.

COOK O/S

It's open, goddamit!...

He hears Cook striding impatiently towards the door now. He

waits, then suddenly kicks the door open, right in Cook's face.

Before Cook can recover, Driver storms into the office, smashing

him across the shoulder with the hammer. Cook collapses in a

heap. Driver's about to hit him again, when he sees that Cook's

left hand is broken and there are cuts and bruises on his face.

Someone's clearly given him a beating since the robbery.

Should've figured you for a shill. Who were

you fronting for?

Fuck you -

Driver smashes the hammer into Cook's right hand now, breaking

it too. Cook screams. Some of the strippers have gathered at the

door but Driver couldn't care less.

Whose money am I holding?

Don't worry. They'll come get it. You don't

know who you're fucking with -

Driver smashes the hammer into the metal plates supporting

Cook's left hand. He screams like a stuck pig.

Who's money am I holding?

(Barely able to get the words out)

Fuck you...

The strippers look stunned and riveted at the same time. Driver

bends over Cook and rifles through his pockets. Finally he finds

what he's looking for. Cook's cell phone. He scrolls down the

call log and finds the same number appearing again and again.

The kitchen is busy, CHEFS taking out hot pizzas from the oven

and slicing them up in takeaway boxes. In the background we hear

the phone ringing.

An impeccably dressed MAN IN A TAN SUIT answers the phone.

Hello?...I'm afraid we're closed. Could you

call back after twelve...

Driver leans against his car, talking on Cook's cell phone.

I could, but your boss won't be happy when

he finds out you've kept him waiting...

Tan Suit looks curious now.

Can I ask what this is about?

I have something that belongs to him.

And that would be?

A million dollars...

There's a pause on the other line now.

TAN SUIT O/S

Please hold...

Tan Suit walks into the dining area. A large bull of a man sits

on his own in the empty restaurant with his back to us. It's

only when he hears Tan Suit approach and turns around that we

realize it's Nino, Bernie's partner.

Driver hears a heavy chesty voice come on the line.

NINO O/S

You have something that fucking belongs to

me?...

The voice is unmistakable. Driver stares quietly.

Seems that way...

And you're calling me why? You expect me to

buy my fucking stuff back from you?...

I'm not selling. I give you a time and

place, you come collect your stuff...

And what do you get out of it?...

Just that. Out of it. You put a muzzle on

Cook, forget your zombies at the Motel,

forget we ever had this conversation...

Nino's thinking to himself, looking more concerned than he

sounds.

Your partners happy with that?...

I don't have partners...

You discuss this with anyone else?

Just you...

Nino begins to relax now, still calculating.

You're not very good at this, are you?...

This isn't what I do. I'll call again with

instructions...

Driver switches the cell phone off.

Nino hangs up. Behind him we see that Tan Suit is also in the

room, waiting for his orders.

Irene is sitting on the couch next to Benicio, talking to him

gently as he watches TV.

...I'll be back before you go to bed. How's

that sound?...

The little boy nods, watching his Japanese cartoon. Irene's

friend, Cindy, is also there, gazing at them both in sympathy.

Irene looks up at her.

Are you going to be okay?

We'll be fine...

Irene gets up to leave when the buzzer rings. She walks over and

opens the door then stops in surprise. Driver stands there.

You got a minute?...

She looks at him in a daze.

Where have you been?...

He stares back at her in silence.

I tried to reach you. Standard's been -

I know...

His eyes stay on her, as if he's trying to tell her something

more. She looks confused, staring back at him curiously when a

small voice interrupts.

BENICIO O/S

Hey...

Driver looks over at the little boy.

Hey...

Irene begins to see the guilt in his eyes and slowly it hits

her. She stares in disbelief, reeling.

I'm sorry about your father...

Benicio nods. Driver keeps staring at the boy but can't find any

more words of comfort. Irene watches him, still stunned. He

looks back at her.

I can't talk now. I have to go.

Can I give you a ride?

She stares at him in dismay, close to tears.

The car's working fine.

Then let me walk you down...

She wants to say no but can't.

Driver and Irene head down the long corridor in silence.

(Almost a whisper)

Why?...

Driver misunderstands, thinking she's talking about Standard.

He was into one of the prison gangs for a

lot of money. He was trying to protect you.

Great job...

She walks faster now, striding towards the elevator. Driver

follows her.

I still have the money. Whatever you need -

She turns around and slaps him hard.

What are you, a bank? I work for a living.

I don't need your widow's pension!

Her eyes well up with tears, staring at him in anger and

frustration.

Just tell me one thing. How did he talk you

into it?

He didn't talk me into anything. I've been

doing this my whole life. It's what I do...

She stares at him in deep disappointment.

Stupid me...

She turns away when the elevator bell rings. The doors open,

revealing TAN SUIT. Neither Driver or Irene recognizes him but

we do. He smiles, pretending to look confused.

Sorry, I'm supposed to be going down...

So are we...

She steps into the elevator. Driver follows her in.

Which floor?

Parking lot, please...

Tan Suit presses the button and the doors slide shut.

Driver and Irene ride down in silence, their eyes fixed on each

other. Tan Suit watches them quietly, considering a move, but

Driver glances at him and he smiles, biding his time. The lights

on the panel descend. The elevator bell finally rings as they

reach the lower level. Tan Suit hesitates, but Driver waits for

him to go out first. He nods goodnight and heads off into the

darkness of the parking lot. Driver follows Irene, the two of

them heading in the opposite direction.

The overhead lights flicker, the huge underground car park

hidden in shadow. Driver walks alongside Irene in silence. In

the distance Tan Suit's footsteps slowly fade.

I'm leaving. I want you to come with me...

Irene can't believe what she's hearing.

What are you talking about?

You and Benicio...

She's almost too stunned to speak, walking even faster now.

You're crazy. I don't even know you -

You will. Once I straighten out this thing

I'm getting out for good. We'll go some

place. Anywhere you want.

She shakes her head, fighting her feelings for him.

It doesn't work like that.

Why not?...

She stops and looks at him.

Because people like you never get out. And

I don't want my son to grow up like that...

She holds his gaze with regret. Driver's about to respond when

suddenly he catches a fleeting movement out of the corner of his

eye.

A beat -- then he suddenly lunges -- grabbing Irene and pulling

her to the ground. In the same instant Tan Suit appears out of

the darkness, opening fire with his automatic.

Bullets spark as they hit the concrete floor and the other

parked vehicles. Driver drags Irene behind a car now, covering

her with his body as Tan Suit fires another burst.

More sparks light up the darkness, the bullets penetrating the

car with ease, narrowly missing Driver and Irene.

Driver moves again, dragging the terrified Irene behind him. Tan

Suit loses sight of them in the darkness, striding past rows of

parked cars.

Driver turns to Irene as they take cover behind a pillar. She

looks terrified -- not just of Tan Suit but of him. It's as if

all her worst fears have been confirmed.

Driver stares back at her, then hears Tan Suit's footsteps

approaching.

He holds her gaze apologetically, then gets to his feet and

runs, trying to draw Tan Suit's fire.

Tan Suit hears him and opens up again, more bullets lighting up

the darkness. Driver keeps moving. Tan Suit strides after him,

reloading, when suddenly his gun jams.

Crouching behind another vehicle, Driver sees this and takes his

chance, darting out after his pursuer. Tan Suit sees him coming

and runs, the hunter becoming the hunted now.

Still lying on the ground, Irene listens to their echoing

footsteps.

Driver runs after Tan Suit through the darkness, gaining all the

time. Tan Suit looks desperate now, tiring. He turns to face his

pursuer but Driver's on him in a flash, hurling him against a

car.

Tan Suit slams into the car, losing his balance. Driver grabs

him, swinging him around, smashing him into another car.

Irene's watching from the shadows, stunned by the violence. She

picks herself up and runs towards the elevator.

Driver keeps slamming Tan Suit against the car, beating the

resistance out of him. As his body begins to slump, Driver grabs

him by the throat and rams his head into a car window.

The glass splinters with blood, the force of the blow shattering

Tan Suit's skull.

Driver looks around for Irene now and sees her standing in the

elevator, framed against the light.

She stares back at him, but makes no attempt to step out.

Driver stands there, his hands covered in Tan Suit's blood. The

elevator doors finally close, hiding Irene from view.

Shannon gets out of his car. Driver is waiting for him by his

own car, silhouetted against the streetlight. Shannon stares at

him a moment, then notices the blood stains on his shirt.

What happened?

Nino's guys came after me. How did they

know about Irene?

Shannon takes a moment to reply, looking dazed.

I called Bernie...I asked if he could help.

Him and Nino are like brothers. I told him

you weren't interested in the money, that

you only did it for the girl...

(From the heart)

I wanted to make sure once you returned the

money that was the end of it...

Driver doesn't seem to hear him.

Let me talk to Bernie again. They probably

didn't listen to him -

It's too late...

Shannon says nothing now, knowing he's right.

They're gonna come after you to find me.

You have to leave...

Shannon takes this in slowly.

What are you gonna do?...

Driver doesn't answer, but from his silence Shannon can guess.

How the fuck did this happen? We're

supposed be in Charlotte or Daytona

drinking champagne out of trophies and

getting laid by pit lizards...

He stares at Driver with quiet regret.

Fuck...

Bernie Rose looks quietly furious.

...I already gave you my advice. You should

have taken your money and left this guy

alone.

Nino and Cook sit opposite him, both of Cook's hands broken now.

It's not that simple, Bernie.

Not now that it's bounced up in your face.

Mr. Paolozzi, I owe you this guy. Just give

me the okay and I'll -

You like taking orders, go shut the blinds.

He looks at Cook's broken hands.

Sun's in my eyes...

Nino doesn't look at Cook, a clear indication he should do as

he's told. Cook stands up, humiliated, and walks over to the

windows. Bernie Rose waits for Nino to explain.

...The money belonged to a half assed

wiseguy from Philly. I had a tip-off he was

keeping a million in a pawn shop and was

gonna invest it here in LA, try to run a

rival operation. I wanted to teach him a

lesson...

The lights in the restaurant gradually fade as Cook shuts the

blinds.

You stole from the East Coast mob?

I stole from a jumped up punk who was gonna

step on our business -

And where did this punk find a million

dollars? You ever consider he may have

consulted some higher-ups? You even bother

to check? -

I don't give a fuck who gave him their

blessing. This is my city -

Your city? This is a big city, pal, and

last time I checked we were partners! -

We are partners -

Then why the fuck didn't you come to me

before you set up your dummy robbery or

hired this fucking amateur?!...

Cook sits back down at the table, having closed the blinds. Nino

looks almost embarrassed for once.

This was off to the side, Bernie. I didn't

wanna involve you.

Well, now you fucked up I am involved.

Anyone finds out you stole from the family

they'll kill both of us -

What family? These fucks still call me a

kike to my face. I'm fifty nine years old,

they pinch my cheek, treat me like a

fuckin' kid. They're the reason we left New

York in the first place. Decrepit old men

waving us over to their dinner and domino

tables to complain.

Those old men gave us the funds to move out

here.

And I made them a lotta money. I made you a

lotta money too...

He stares at Bernie, genuinely indignant now.

I pay them half of everything I fucking

earn and then they set up some fucking kid

from Philadelphia just because he's a

fucking wop!

There's a hint of sympathy in Bernie's eyes.

The money always flows up, Izzy. You know

that.

He calls Nino by his childhood name now, emphasizing the fact

that they're both outsiders in this organization. For the first

time Nino's tough guy act slips and he looks anxious.

That's why this driver has to go. Him, and

maybe your friend Shannon, are the only two

people who can tie me to the robbery.

What about this prick?

He doesn't even bother to look at Cook.

Mr. Paolozzi -

Shut up...

The two friends stare at each other as if Cook didn't exist.

Are you asking my permission?

I'm asking for your help. I shoulda' come

to you first, Bernie. I know that. We're a

team.

He stares at Bernie apologetically, appealing to their

friendship.

I'll pay you back the three hundred you

spent on the race car.

It's not about the money...

He stares out quietly, torn.

All right...

Nino nods in gratitude.

Pass the salt...

Cook hesitates, thinking Bernie's fucking with him for having

two broken hands. He stares back dumbly and it's the final

straw. Bernie suddenly grabs a stainless steel fork and rams it

in his eye. As Cook screams, Bernie takes a knife and buries it

in his neck. He twists the knife deeper for good measure, then

with one powerful sweep of his arm clears Cook off the table.

Cook's not dead yet, just writhing on the floor, choking on his

own blood. Bernie Rose keeps his eyes fixed on Nino.

Your turn to clean up after me...

The CREW are setting up for their first shot of the day. In the

background we see a DIRECTOR blocking out an action scene.

Driver walks past without even a glance, heading towards the

make-up trailer. He opens the door and walks in, looking around

the trailer until he finds what he's looking for -- the SFX mask

he saw previously on the film set.

Shannon limps down the steps from his office with a suitcase in

his hand. He heads into the main garage then suddenly stops.

Bernie Rose stands beside the stock car, waiting for him.

All these priceless cars, you should get

better locks...

Door's always open to you...

Bernie Rose heads towards him with his hands in his coat

pockets.

Going somewhere?

Thinking about it.

I'm looking for your driver.

You break in like this I figure it's bad

news.

It's bad luck. Two thousand heists in this

city a year, he had to pick the wrong one.

He tried to put it right.

Picked the wrong guy for that too. My

partner's a belligerent asshole with his

back against the wall...

He stops, facing Shannon.

Right now so am I. I don't take care of

this I'm in big trouble...

He stares at his old friend.

Any idea where he is?

Probably across the border by now. Mexico.

Belize. That's where I'd go...

Bernie Rose smiles, not believing a word.

He just walked out on you after everything

you've done for him, took all the money?

That's gratitude, I guess.

Bernie Rose can't help grinning, fond of Shannon despite

everything.

I ever tell you how long Izzy and I been

friends? Since we were six. Only Jews in a

neighborhood of wops. Long as I can

remember he was getting me into trouble and

I was getting him out of scrapes...

He looks almost apologetic.

Anyone else I'd take your side...

Anyone else I'd do the same...

Bernie Rose watches him with a mixture of affection and regret.

What's this fucking kid to you anyway?

Shannon shrugs, no idea himself.

I leave here without finding out where he

is, there'll be others coming after me. I

guarantee they'll be too stupid to figure

out you won't talk and drag this out

unnecessarily...

Then I'm glad you got here first...

Bernie Rose holds his gaze, then looks away, admiring the shiny

stock car.

You know, it's too bad, I was getting

excited about our race team, having my name

all over the car. I think we could have

made something of this business...

Nah, I'd have fucked it up too...

Shannon smiles, reconciled with himself. Bernie Rose grins, and

extends his hand. They shake hands firmly, like old friends,

when suddenly Shannon recoils, as if he's been stung.

We see now that his shirt sleeve is covered in blood, his vein

cut all the way from his elbow to his wrist. He looks dazed,

paralysed with shock.

Bernie Rose holds a razor knife in his hand, the blade wet with

Shannon's blood. He takes Shannon gently by the arm and sits him

down against the boot of the stock car.

You won't feel a thing. Close your eyes and

you'll fall asleep...

Shannon stares out numbly, the life ebbing out of him. Bernie

Rose watches him quietly, wiping his bloody razor with a

handkerchief.

Bernie Rose replaces the razor knife in a small lacquered box

full of other knives. From next door he can hear his neighbors

arguing again. He stands there a moment, deflated, then suddenly

storms towards his front door.

A loud knocking. Bernie Rose's neighbor opens his door.

Yeah?

Bernie Rose, next apartment over -

Yeah, I know. I'm kind of busy here.

I heard...

There's something threatening in the old mobster's eyes now. The

husband moves to close the door but Bernie jams it open with his

elbow, shoves him aside, then looks over at the wife.

You all right, Shonda?

The woman nods without meeting his eyes.

Get the hell out of my -

Bernie doesn't give him time to finish, clamping a powerful hand

on his throat.

What's your fucking name?

I'm a patient man, Lenny, not much for

getting in other people's way. What I

figure is, we've all got our own lives,

right? And the right to be left alone?

So I sit next door for almost a year now

listening to what goes down in here and I

keep thinking, hey, they'll work it out.

You gonna work it out, Lenny?

He jerks the husband's neck forward, making him nod.

You're lucky to have her, lucky she's put

up with you this long. Lucky I've put up

with you. She has good reason: she loves

you. I don't have any reason at all. So

stop raising your voice or fucking move...

He lets go of the terrified man and storms out again.

Sunlight glints on the parked vehicles by the curb. Driver slows

down as he approaches the sign for Shannon's Custom Kings,

glancing out of the window to see if anyone's staking out the

garage. Satisfied there's no-one there, he drives through.

Driver pulls open the garage door and sees the rows of vintage

cars shimmering in the shafts of sunlight. As he heads past the

vehicles he suddenly spots a figure slumped against the stock

car. Shannon's eyes have been closed, his head resting gently

against the trunk of the car.

Driver kneels down and lifts him up in his arms, holding him for

a second, then lays him down on the floor. He turns back and

opens the car boot now, revealing the black gym bag full of

money.

Driver's car roars out of the garage.

Nino stands in the kitchen, wearing a beautiful suit but no

shoes or socks, listening on his cell phone. We hold on the

curious image for a moment, then reveal a beautifully dressed

WOMAN polishing his shoes. And now we see more of Nino's MEN,

also smartly dressed and accompanied by GORGEOUS WOMEN, getting

ready for an event. Nino's talking to his wife on the phone.

Alright honey, I'll pick you up in an hour.

Two big Lincoln Towncars are parked outside. Across the road we

recognize Driver's car. He opens the trunk. When he closes it

again we see that he's wearing the eerily convincing SFX mask.

He crosses the road, entering the pizzeria.

Several of Nino's men look up as Driver enters but none of them

recognize him.

We're closed...

Driver stares past them at Nino in the kitchen, surrounded by

more of his men. We feel his mind calculating then he walks out

again.

Nino emerges with his bodyguards now, heading towards one of the

white Lincolns.

(To one of his men)

I'm going to pick up my wife. I'll meet you

there...

Across the road Driver climbs into his car, still wearing the

mask. He starts his car, setting off after Nino's Lincoln.

Driver drifts in behind a couple of other cars, keeping them

between himself and the Lincoln.

The sunlight is fading fast. The neon cityscape has come to life

and the streets are a sea of glittering lights.

The CHAUFFEUR checks his mirror as he turns into another street,

seeing only the anonymous glare of headlights behind him.

Driver slows down and lets another car turn in front of him,

keeping it between himself and Nino's car.

The streets are less crowded in this residential area. As the

car in front of Driver pulls into its front drive, Driver takes

the next turning, making sure the Lincoln doesn't spot him.

Driver cruises along another residential street. At every

intersection we glimpse the Lincoln heading in the same

direction down a parallel street.

The Lincoln turns back into traffic on San Vincente.

Nino's talking on a cell phone in the back seat.

...Sure, Carlo, I'll send him your

regards...

Driver merges in with the traffic, weaving between the cars in

front of him until he has Nino's Lincoln back in his sights.

The sun has almost set, the red backlights of the cars blinking

in the fading light.

Nino's car turns into 7th Street.

This time there are no other vehicles turning into the same

street. Driver has no choice, settling in behind the Lincoln.

The chauffeur glances in his rear-view mirror and spots Driver's

car for the first time. For now he doesn't give it much thought.

In the back seat Nino finally says goodbye on the phone.

...Nice talking to you too...

(As he hangs up)

Asshole...

Both cars head into Entrada Drive.

The chauffeur checks his mirror again and notices Driver's car

still on his tail. Just as a precaution he slows down, seeing if

the pursuing car will overtake.

Driver has to decide in an instant whether to take up the

invitation. He overtakes the Lincoln, speeding ahead.

Nino's chauffeur sees Driver's car disappear up ahead, relaxing

now.

Driver puts his foot on the gas, taking sharp turns on small

side streets, driving fast around the block until he's back on

the Lincoln's tail, keeping a safe distance now.

Nino's chauffeur turns right into the Pacific Coast Highway.

Driver follows the Lincoln at a distance, keeping the winding

corners of the PCH between himself and his prey.

From above we see Driver's car gliding along the open highway,

the rising hills on one side, the churning ocean on the other,

no vehicles in sight.

In the back seat Nino dials another number on his cell-phone.

...Bernie, it's me...

The headlights of Driver's car sweep ahead of it on the open

road. From above it looks like a shark closing in on its prey.

Bernie Rose stands by the window, listening to the phone in

silence.

Nino sounds apologetic.

...Look, about that thing today...I'm

sorry. I know how much you liked the guy...

In his rear view mirror the chauffeur sees the headlights of the

car behind getting closer.

Driver stares ahead, his eyes fixed on the Lincoln's backlights.

Bernie Rose doesn't speak, looking weary.

NINO O/S

Bernie?...

Yeah?...

NINO O/S

You're the only fucking person in the world

I trust. I love you, man...

Bernie shakes his head, the same old apologies.

In the front seat Nino's chauffeur checks his mirror curiously.

When this is over I'll make it up to you, I

swear...

The lights of the car behind have vanished.

Even from above we can't see Driver's car with its lights off -

no idea how close it is to Nino's car.

Even though he's still angry, Bernie can't help forgiving his

childhood friend.

How many times I heard that before...

Nino grins.

I lost count -

Suddenly blazing headlights explode to life behind him.

Driver rams the Lincoln at over a hundred miles an hour, hitting

it just above the left rear wheel.

The impact is momentous. The huge Continental is lifted up in

the air and spun round at the same time. It slams back into the

tarmac then flips end over end for a hundred yards.

Bernie Rose is left holding the phone as the line goes dead.

The collision has barely knocked Driver off course. His car

skids to a stop near the overturned wreck.

Among the carnage, we see Nino, bloodied but still alive. He

unbuckles his seat belt and crawls out of the twisted wreck.

Driver gets out of his car, calmly walking over to the

pulverized Lincoln. He sees Nino stumbling off towards the beach

but doesn't hurry after him yet. He checks to make sure the

other passengers are dead, then heads on.

Nino stumbles through the sand, running for his life now. He

looks behind him and sees Driver calmly pursuing him. He keeps

running, but he's badly injured, slowing all the time. Fear

clouds reason and he staggers towards the crashing waves.

Driver slows down as he watches the gangster wade into the

ocean, a pathetic last attempt to evade him. The crashing waves

and the undertow are an impenetrable wall. Every time Nino tries

to wade out further, the ocean drags him back.

Driver stares at his trapped prey. Nino's attempts become more

and more feeble as the ocean exhausts him and snuffs out any

hope of escape. Finally he retreats back into the shallow water,

barely able to keep his footing. He turns around and faces

Driver, the crashing waves still smashing into his back.

They stay like that for a moment. Gazing at each other. Driver

silhouetted against the white sand. Nino trapped in the ocean.

Then Driver wades out into the water. Nino has no fight left in

him, staring at the masked man. Driver stares back at him then

grabs him by the throat, forcing his head under the water. Nino

splutters as Driver lets him up again.

It was Bernie...Bernie Rose killed your

friend not me...

Driver shoves his face back under the water, keeping it there

until Nino's body finally stops thrashing.

A phone shrills. Bernie Rose answers it.

Nino?

DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

He's dead.

Bernie Rose stares out in silence. Whatever he thinks of Nino, a

part of him has died. We feel the regret in his eyes but there's

no trace of emotion in his voice.

Looks like me, you and your girlfriend are

the only pieces left on the board...

Driver is no longer wearing a mask, framed against the ocean. He

catches the veiled threat in Bernie's words but doesn't respond.

I'd say this has gone far enough. See any

reason why it should go on?...

Doesn't have to...

Then we should talk. You know a place

called the Great Wall -- out on Sherman

Way?

DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

I can find it.

Bernie pauses, staring out.

BERNIE'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

I'll see you there at one.

A charged silence, then the line goes dead.

A large Chinese restaurant. We follow Driver through the crowd.

He sees Bernie Rose sitting at a table on his own, pouring

himself a glass of wine. The mobster's dressed for the occasion,

wearing a jacket and tie. He smiles at Driver as he sits down.

Care for a glass?...

Driver doesn't smile, gazing back at him across the table.

Bernie Rose doesn't seem to care.

I can recommend the duck. Hell, I can

recommend everything -- Walnut prawns,

shredded beef, Velvet chicken -- but the

duck's to die for...

He delivers the last line with a pointed smile, then turns away,

calling over a WAITRESS.

The duck, please. For two.

Anything else?

No, thanks...

He waits for the waitress to leave, then turns back to Driver.

You've been on a roll. Cut yourself quite a

swath out there.

I never asked for any of it.

We usually don't. But it comes down on our

heads regardless. Look at Shannon...

Driver holds his gaze, the tension palpable, laughter and

conversation drifting over from the other tables.

Anyway it's water under the bridge now.

Question is where does that leave us?

That's up to you.

You bring the cash?

Driver nods. Bernie Rose studies him quietly.

Tell me something, how does someone with no

interest in money get mixed up in a heist?

(Off his silence)

Shannon told me it was because of the girl?

Driver hesitates, betraying a hint of concern. Bernie sees it

and smiles.

Don't worry. Nobody else knows about her.

Just me...

You still see her?...

She's not interested.

She's got her head screwed on right. I got

two ex-wives, three kids, four

grandchildren. Not one of them speaks to me

now...

He smiles again, looking into Driver's eyes with just a hint of

sympathy.

This is what I'll do for you. You give me

the money, nobody knows she exists. But

it's a different matter with you.

BERNIE ROSE (cont'd)

These people I have the misfortune to be

involved with, they don't mind Nino being

gone, but they'll wanna know what happened

to him...

Sounds like we have a problem...

And just when we were getting to know each

other...

Their eyes are fixed on each other, deadly enemies but kindred

spirits of a kind.

...We shake hands, say goodbye, it's the

start of your new life. Sooner or later

they'll come after you. No end to it.

Someone gets tired, somebody else takes

their place. It goes on and on. Whatever

dreams you have, whatever plans, you might

as well forget `em, because this is what

it's gonna be like till the day you die...

I just thought you should know...

Driver stares back at him quietly.

What do you suggest I do?

First time I heard about you, Shannon told

me you drove. Fast. That's a start...

He keeps staring at Driver, then smiles.

Either that or you choke on the duck...

Driver's car is parked at the back of the parking lot, half

hidden by a fenced area for garbage. Driver pops the trunk,

taking out the black gym bag with the cash. Bernie Rose doesn't

even look at it, still admiring the car.

How much does something like this cost?

Nine, ten thousand. If you can find one

that still runs.

Maybe I'll take yours. Part of our deal.

He grins, then holds out his hand for the gym bag.

Guess we won't be seeing each other again..

Driver reaches out to give him the bag, when suddenly Bernie's

hand snakes out of his pocket, twisting a switch-blade into

Driver's gut. He pulls it out, ready to stab again, but this

time Driver catches his wrist, slowly forcing the knife up to

his throat.

Their eyes are fixed on each other for a moment, with something

like regret, then the blade pierces Bernie Rose's neck, sinking

deeper and deeper. Driver holds the old man in his arms as he

dies. They stay like that, locked in a fatal embrace, then

Driver lowers Bernie Rose gently to the ground, out of sight.

Blood seeping through his shirt, Driver picks up the gym bag and

puts it back in the trunk, slamming the door shut.

We're looking down on an enormous parking lot, hundreds of

different colored vehicles gleaming down below. Driver pulls

into the lot, searching for a place to park.

Driver climbs out of his car, wearing a jacket over his blood-

soaked shirt. He walks to the back of the car, kneels down, and

hides the keys behind the left rear wheel, drops of blood

dripping on the tarmac beneath him. He gets up again, then sets

off through the maze of parked vehicles, dialling a number on

his cell-phone.

Irene and Benicio sit in the park.

(Picking up her phone)

Hello?...

The blazing sun beats down. Driver walks through a long corridor

of glinting cars.

It's me...

Irene stares in surprise.

DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

Don't hang up...

She says nothing but stays on the line.

Driver continues painfully through the maze of cars.

You got a pen? I need you to write

something down...

Irene looks confused as she hears the quiet urgency in his

voice, then reaches inside her handbag.

Sunlight glitters on the roofs of the parked cars, dazzling

Driver's eyes.

...JJT 108...

IRENE'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

...JJT 108...

It's the license number for my car. I've

left it in a parking lot on the corner of

Culver and Lincoln. Section M 10...

Irene writes down the details, looking even more confused.

DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE

There's a bag in the trunk with some money.

Keys are under the left rear wheel...

What do you want me to do with it?...

Driver walks with difficulty, finding it hard to breathe.

It's yours. It's safe to keep it...

All around him the Chevys, Dodges, and Fords glitter in the

sunlight.

I told you, I don't need your money...

Blood seeps through Driver's shirt, dripping on the tarmac.

Irene hears his labored breathing now, looking concerned.

Are you okay?...

Driver's skin looks deathly pale, his eyes a haunting shade of

blue. He keeps walking through the maze of cars, casting his

eyes from one vehicle to the next, looking for the perfect ride.

Just out of breath...

Finally he spots a beautiful white Camaro up ahead.

How're you doing?...

For the first time we see the Echo Park fountain sparkling in

the background.

Fine. I'm in the park with Benicio...

Irene can no longer hold back her tears, heartbroken.

Driver stops in front of the white Camaro, unsteady on his feet.

I gotta go Irene...

He pauses.

Meeting you was the best thing that ever

happened to me...

Irene smiles sadly.

It was nice to meet you too...

From above we see the maze of vehicles stretching out forever --

Chevys, Chryslers, Fords -- the history of America on wheels.

Driver switches off his cell-phone reluctantly then heads

towards the Camaro.

Driver climbs into the front seat of the Camaro, catching his

breath. He sits there a moment, sheltering from the world

outside, then pulls out a pocket knife, opening the blades until

he finds the screwdriver. He starts with the left side of the

steering column, then gets to work on the section below the turn

signal.

His face shows the strain, but his fingers are as steady as

ever. A master at work. Finally he breaks into the ignition

device, leaning back in the seat to take a rest.

We're gazing down at the white Camaro from above, waiting for it

to move.

Driver's face is completely still now. So are his eyes. He looks

almost at peace. There's a long pause, then slowly he leans

forward and turns on the ignition. As the engine comes to life,

we CUT TO BLACK.

