BLACK

FADE IN: ABSTRACT DREAM

CLOSE-UP of a gold framed miniature portrait of JOHN MERRICK'S

MOTHER (tune or melody over her picture, heartbeat), which

DISSOLVES TO CLOSE-UP of real Mother smiling A shadow comes

over her face. CLOSE-UP of elephant ears, trunks, faces

moving.

Dark, heavy feet stomping elephant trumpet, rearing up.

Powerful hit and the Mother falls. Darker. Trunk slides over

Mother's face and breasts and stomach, leaving a moist trail.

MOTHERS POV of elephant's mouth, eyes, skin. Mother's face

twists and freezes in a blurred snap roll.

BLACK again. Knock, knock sound. Curtain opens to horrified

faces.

CUT TO BLACK AND SILENCE

CIRCUS

FADE IN TO steam shooting out of a huge old half-rusted

calliope. The music is very loud and raucous. Moving up and

back we see the black awning entrance to the freak tent,

where FREDERICK TREVES, Resident Surgeon and Lecturer on

anatomy at the London Hospital, is standing with his back to

us observing the posters of the freaks.

Coming along a muddy walkway at the side of the tent is

Treves' wife, ANNE, and their two DAUGHTERS. The shrill over-

whelming music seems to engulf her.

She looks discomfited, vulnerable, and protective of her

daughters. The girls, oblivious to any fear, are finishing

their chocolate sweets.

CLOSE-UP of Treves looking at a poster.

He hears:

Treves turns and looks down to a chocolate-covered face. He

smiles at the children and Anne.

Anne sees the dirty faces and begins cleaning one of them.

The other daughter looks into the freak tent.

She turns the girl away from the freak tent and begins

cleaning her face.

Her kerchief pulls and distorts the little daughter's face.

Suddenly the girl sees a ring of elephants in the distance.

She stands.

She takes the children off toward the elephants.

Treves watches them go for a moment, then turns and we go

with him into the dark freak tent. He pauses to pay admission

at a small booth, then disappears within.

DARKNESS. We hear what could be the trumpeting of an elephant.

Treves parts the black canvas and enters the main part of

the tent. Off to his left he sees a man wrapped in a black

cape, holding a conch shell aloft and blowing powerfully

into it. The tent is dimly lit with flickering oil lamps.

People mill about through the weaving corridors. To Treves'

right, he sees a sign reading, "The Deadly Fruit of the

Original Sin," over a small, very dark corridor.

Treves enters the passage and disappears into the shadows.

The corridor has a series of flaps and turns to disorient

the spectator.

Treves carefully pushes his way through and arrives at the

inner chamber.

In a roped-off space stands a small stage set at eve-level,

with curtains on three sides. On the stage is a bell jar

filled with grey-murky fluid lit from behind with casts an

eerie glow in the chamber. Suspended in the fluid is the

life-sized body of a baby-doll with the attached head of a

large snake. At the join of head and body is a blob of

unidentifiable organic matter. It is obviously phony, but

the effect is still very disquieting. At the bottom of the

jar, in the muck, sits an apple with two large bites out of

it. Behind the jar is a painting on the order of a religious

triptych, portraying Adam on one side, Eve on the other, and

the tree flowering over the jar.

Treves' impassive face is bathed in the watery glow. He

studies the strange object with a critical eye. In the passage

we hear movement, and an OLDER GENTLEMAN enters. He seems

visibly impressed with "The Deadly Fruit of the Original

Sin."

After a moment, Treves quietly leaves the inner chamber.

As he pushes his way through the corridor, the noise grows

and becomes a cacophony of strange sounds. He exits and hears

a booming roar and the rush of air as a series of twelve

candles, mounted in a row on a ten-foot stand, are blown out

by "THE INCREDIBLE WIND-MAN." His BARKER steps up and talks

to the people.

A few people raise their hands. The Barker scans the crowd

and then points over the heads of the volunteers to TWO MEN

toward the back.

During the above, The Incredible Wind-Man removes his cape,

revealing his great barrel chest and pot-belly supported by

spindly, white, hairless legs.

As the Barker sets the "Volunteers," the Wind-Man walks about

the small platform, huffing and puffing and blowing on the

conch shell.

The "Volunteers" set, the Wind-Man steps up to the end of

the bellows, takes an enormous breath, and twirls his black

handlebar moustache as a signal to the Barker.

The Wind-Man clamps his mouth to the bellows, and with great

show begins to exhale, savagely stamping his feet. The Two

Lads struggle obviously, and then pretend to be forced apart.

The Barker triumphantly lifts the Wind-Man's hand. The Wind-

Man ceases to blow, removes his lips from the bellows and

the Two Lads instantly collapse together on the floor.

The crowd cheers, while the Wind-Man puts the conch shell to

his lips and proudly stamps his feet, circling about the Two

Lads.

Amidst this applause, Treves smiles indulgently. He moves

on, looking for something genuine.

TWO BOBBIES move through the crowd, intent upon a certain

destination. Treves conveys a casual interest in them.

Treves moves on to A BEARDED LADY who combs her beard, busily

chewing tobacco and spitting into a spittoon.

Treves continues to work his way through the crowd. Up ahead

he sees the Bobbies.

They round a corner.

We hear the laughter of a crowd.

Treves moves closer to see a FAT LADY seated in a chair on

the next platform.

On each knee she holds a DWARF. They are dressed as babies.

A SKELETON MAN stands beside her.

The crowd laughs uproariously.

From the direction the Bobbies have gone, we hear several

screams.

The two Dwarves get down from her knees and approach the

Skeleton Man. They kneel and tug at his thin legs.

At this point, a FATHER holding his YOUNG SON in his arms

passes by Treves.

The Young Boy clutches his Father's neck in fear, hiding his

face.

Treves, very curious now, along with several others, make

their way around the corner.

Before him, Treves sees an agitated crowd staring at something

that from his point of view he cannot see. Brushing past him

is a WOMAN pulling a small, confused and frightened LITTLE

GIRL. Getting closer to the commotion, he sees four BOBBIES

standing with a well-dressed alderman, arguing with the OWNER

of this particular exhibit.

A distraught, almost hysterical WOMAN is ineffectually

striking the Owner with her fists about his head and

shoulders, crying weakly and incoherently.

Treves is just about to see whatever it is that is causing

the alarm, when one of the Bobbies says:

As the curtain drops, Treves just glimpses baggy trouser

cuffs and two horribly deformed, root-like feet. The

distraught Woman has been pulled away from the Owner and is

sobbing on a Bobby's shoulder.

In the crowd, Treves notices a YOUNG BOY staring open-mouthed,

blankly at the curtain. Treves pushes through the glut of

people to join the Boy and get a better view. The curtain is

actually a large canvas.

On it is a life-sized portrait, crudely painted, of a creature

that could only be possible in a nightmare. It is the figure

of a man turning into an elephant. The transformation,

however, is not complete; there is still more of the man

than beast. Palm trees in the background suggest the jungle

habitat in which this Perverted object might have once roamed.

Filled with curiosity, Treves moves toward the curtain.

The alderman turns and leaves the tent.

He shakes his head in disgust.

Now at the canvas, Treves tries to lift the edge to get a

peek inside the wagon, but the meaty hand of the Owner clamps

down on his wrist.

The two men look at each other for a solid moment.

Treves backs away and returns his gaze to the painted canvas.

OPERATING ROOM - THE LONDON HOSPITAL

We see a bellows pumping air into the open grate of a cast

iron stove. We hear moaning in the background. The coals

flare to a fierce glow. From the mouth of the stove protrude

the handles of several cauterizing irons, their heads imbedded

in the coals. Up above the irons, Treves stands by a waist-

high operating table covered with black leather. His face is

illuminated by an oil lantern held by a nurse.

The room is fairly dark owing to the oppressive overcast sky

seen through two windows. There is also a large sink, a

cupboard containing dressings, gags, manacles, emetics and

other unattractive things, and two hard chairs.

TWO STUDENTS and two other DOCTORS, MR. FOX and MR. HILL,

are present. The two Students are pulling with constant

pressure on a rope tied to the patient's leg. Treves and Mr.

Fox are working on a chest wound caused by a machine accident.

There are gear-wheel marks getting progressively deeper as

they near a great open gash. Mr. Hill places a cotton mask

over the patient's nose and mouth and applies drops of

chloroform. The patient struggles, but soon his moans subside

and he is unconscious.

The two medical Students come forward. They stare uneasily

at the gaping wound, which bubbles each time the man takes

an agonized breath.

Treves and Fox quickly and expertly tend the wound as Hodges

and Pierce look on.

Treves now notices that the student's faces have gone a trifle

ashen.

Treves smiles at them knowingly.

HALLWAY

A hospital MESSENGER BOY, dressed in a blue uniform and a

can is making his way down the hall. He stops and looks into

an operating room much like the one we have just seen.

Inside, the room is empty. The Boy closes the door and

continues on to another operating room. The Doctors move

with great urgency around the operating table. Blood is

draining down into a white porcelain bowl. A Woman can be

heard moaning. The Boy looks carefully, but finally closes

the door and continues on his way.

TREVES' OPERATING ROOM

There is a hissing sound and steam from the cauterizing of

the wound comes up obscuring part of Treves' face. The patient

is being held down firmly by the other men.

The door opens and Treves looks up. The Boy pops his head

in.

The Boy shakes his head slowly, "No."

The Boy closes the door.

AERIAL SHOT from third floor of the London Hospital looking

down on the hospital square.

Below, Treves is walking briskly across the square, through

a gate and into the slums beyond.

The aerial shot is actually FOX'S POV, and now we see Fox

filled with curiosity, watching the figure from a window.

Looking down from above and to the side of him, we follow

Treves walking through a cobblestone street still wet from a

recent rain, covered with horse manure and filth of all sorts.

The air is smoky from meat burning fires.

Rounding a corner, we see and approach the painted canvas

sign of "The Elephant Man" covering the front of a small,

dingy shop. The door of the shop is windowless and padlocked.

Treves walks into the picture, studies the whole scene for a

moment, goes to the shop door and finds that it is padlocked.

Treves tries to look under an edge of the canvas. To his

left he sees a SMALL BOY watching him intently.

He holds a coin out. The Boy nods, snatches the coin and

then disappears around the corner.

Treves turns back to the canvas.

A PUB

A noisy pub, long and narrow. Benches run the length of the

back wall, with small tables up against them. Men are

clustered around the bar, talking in groups.

We see the Boy standing at one of the tables talking to the

Owner, greedily consuming his lunch as he listens. The Boy

gestures outside.

OUTSIDE THE PUB

The Boy comes out the door, quickly followed by the Owner

hurriedly putting on his coat, fumbling with a riding crop,

the last of his sandwich stuffed in his mouth.

AT THE CORNER

The Boy and the Owner are carefully looking around the corner

at Treves still in front of the portrait.

They walk into the street.

IN FRONT OF THE SHOP

The Owner and the Boy walk up to Treves.

Treves pulls a purse from his coat, extracts a coin and holds

it out.

He snatches the money.

INSIDE THE SHOP

Total darkness. We hear the sound of the padlock being

removed. The door opens and light streams in. The canvas

covering the windows at the front of the shop obscures all

other light. The Owner enters, followed by Treves and the

Boy. From his expression, as well as Treves', we can tell

there must be an awful stench in the room. No one says a

word. The Boy closes the door, while the owner lights a small

gas light. We can now see the shop. It it empty, grey with

dust, cold and dank. Some old tins and a few shriveled

potatoes occupy a shelf. The far end of the shop is blocked

off by a curtain suspended from a cord by a few rings.

The Owner approaches it.

The rings rattle back, and the curtain is omen. We see a

bent figure crouching on a stool, covered by a brown blanket.

In front of it on a tripod is a large brick, heated from

below by a bunsen burner. From the blanket protrudes a

perfectly normal left arm and hand warming itself over the

brick.

It does not move when the curtain is drawn.

Treves steps closer. The Owner, watching his every move,

turns-and smiles at him. He bangs his riding crop on the

wall and yells to the crouched figure, as if speaking to a

dog.

The Boy, excited by his own fear, mimics the Owner.

The figure comes forward and lets the blanket fall to the

ground and we see the ELEPHANT MAN himself.

Treves, his eyes wide with horror and wonder, his mouth frozen

open, steps backward in an instinctive movement of self

preservation.

The Owner laughs.

The Elephant Man is naked to the waist, his feet are bare

and he wears a pair of worn trousers from a fat man's dress

suit. He is a little below average height, and looks shorter

from the bowing of his back. His head is enormous and

misshapen, as big around as a man's waist. From his brow

projects a huge boney mass, almost obscuring his right eye.

His nose is a nose of flesh, recognizable only from its

position.

From the upper jaw projects another mass of bone protruding

from the mouth like a stump, turning the upper lip inside

out, making a slobbering aperture.

It almost gives the impression of a rudimentary trunk or

tusk. On top of his head is a handful of lank, black hair.

At the back of it hangs a bag of spongy skin, resembling

cauliflower. These loathsome growths cover his back and hang

down to the middle of his thighs. The right arm is enormous

and shapeless, the hand like a knot of tuberous roots. His

left arm is not only normal, but delicately shaped, with

fine skin and a hand that any woman might envy. From his

chest hangs another bag of flesh, like the dewlap of a lizard.

His legs are also grossly deformed, his feet great stumps.

Behind him, as painted in the portrait, are two crudely

constructed palm trees.

The Owner harshly raps again.

The Elephant Man begins to turn. The boy filled with malicious

glee at seeing the monster obey, screams.

The Elephant Man completes his turn and comes to rest.

We see a CLOSE-UP of the Elephant Man looking at Treves. His

face is utterly devoid, and incapable, of expression.

We see the Elephant Man's eyes. He closes them.

OUTSIDE THE SHOP

The Owner is locking up.

Treves, facing the street, drinks in the fresh air. He is

trying to forget his shock, put everything into focus.

He looks at the garish portrait again.

Treves produces his purse.

The Owner, smelling money, turns.

Treves hands him several coins.

Treves hands the Owner a card. The Owner, greasy and dirty,

shakes Treves' hand and squeezes his arm.

The Owner gives Treves the evil look of a conspirator.

Treves walks off, disoriented.

The Owner reads the card and smiles at Treves walking away

down the street.

DISSOLVE TO OUTSIDE THE SHOP

A CABMAN is knocking on the door of the shop, staring at the

portrait. The door opens, revealing a figure in a floor-length

black cloak. On his head is an extremely large hat, cut to

the lines of a yachting cap. A grey-flannel curtain hangs

from the bottom of the cap all the way around, hiding his

face.

There is a horizontal slit in front for the eyes. On the

figure's feet are large, bag-like slippers. The only part of

the body seen at all is the left arm and hand, which protrudes

from the cloak, holding a crude walking stick.

The figure seems to loathe being in the open. We can just

barely see in the darkness within the Owner standing to one

side of the door, obviously enjoying the surprise on the

Cabman's face. The Owner steps abruptly into his view.

The Cabman, does so, while a small, curious crowd forms. The

Owner gives the Cabman the card. The Cabman jumps up onto

the seat and off they go.

THE RECEIVING ROOM - LONDON HOSPITAL

The receiving room is a bare hall, painted stone color. It

has rows of benches and a long desk where entries are made,

and certificates and other papers are issued. It is a cold,

harsh place.

He exits.

Treves turns and sees the Matron, staring.

She nods silently. Treves looks at the figure for a moment.

He starts to go out of the room. The hooded figure just stands

there, motionless.

We see the whole room, the people now silent. They all stare

at the figure.

No one makes a move.

Treves turns to look at the hooded figure who stands there a

moment, then slowly shuffles after him. Mrs. Mothershead and

the people in the room watch him go. When he is out of sight,

they all begin to talk excitedly.

Mothershead stands fixed and watches too, ignoring the noisy

room.

TREVES' OFFICE

The door opens and Treves leads the hooded figure to a chair

in front of his desk and helps him to sit down, furtively

trying to look into the eye-slit of the mask. In the small

room the smell of the Elephant Man is overwhelming.

Treves goes to the window and opens it. He nervously tries

to compose himself, then turns to the hooded figure.

The figure in the chair is still. Treves is at a loss. His

sense of discomfort is growing. He looks at the floor for a

moment, then locks his eyes on the figure's left arm.

The figure does nothing. Treves sits down at his desk and

picks up a pencil.

The figure does nothing.

The figure does nothing.

The figure following Treves' movements nods very slowly,

"yes". Treves sighs with relief.

The figure begins to babble incoherently. Treves, alarmed,

interrupts.

Again the figure, following Treves movements, shakes his

head "no".

The figure does nothing. Treves is quite nervous.

The figure begins to moan. There are two sharp raps at the

door. The hooded figure flinches.

The door opens and Fox pokes his head into the room.

He notices the hooded figure.

Treves quickly rises and pushes Fox out into the hallway,

following him and closing the door.

IN THE HALLWAY

Treves and Fox are standing outside the door to Treves'

office.

Treves turns to go back in, then stops.

He goes back in, shutting the door.

TREVES' OFFICE

Treves turns the key in the door. He turns to the chair the

figure had been occupying, but he is not there.

The figure is hiding in the corner, crouched behind a black

frock operating coat, so stiff with dried blood and pus it

stands up by itself.

Treves looks quickly around the room and finally sees him.

He looks at the figure for a moment.

The frightened figure just crouches there looking at him.

Treves goes to him, pulls him up and over to the chair.

The figure sits. Treves pauses uncertainly.

The figure does nothing. Treves moves to him.

The figure leans back fearfully. From behind him we see just

the top of his wide hooded head.

Treves, standing before him, lifts the hood up and back.

SMALL ROOM - LONDON HOSPITAL

We see two cameras set up, their OPERATORS next to them

staring at something we cannot see. Treves stands beside

them concentrating on the same sight.

All three are speechless.

Treves suddenly remembers himself.

The Cameramen mumble, "Yes", and gratefully disappear beneath

the black cloths of their cameras.

They trigger the flash powder. In the blinding flashes we

briefly see the silhouette of a tremendously bulky figure,

starting at the light.

DISSOLVE TO LECTURE HALL - PATHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON

BRIGHT LIGHT

As we pull back and down in a slow spiral we see the light

is coming through high windows. We now see several rows of

distinguished doctors talking to each other in anticipation.

As we continue to spiral down we see Treves before them at a

podium. Behind him are two ASSISTANTS standing beside a

curtained stall. Treves raps a pointer stick on the podium

to bring the meeting to order. We move behind the stall as

the Assistants part the curtains and we see the silhouette

of the Elephant Man. The doctors talk among themselves

quietly.

Treves' voice fades as we DISSOLVE TO the Doctors, who at

first were rigid and flustered, and now bent forward,

concentrating, obviously consumed with interest.

Spiraling down again we see Treves finishing his lecture.

Treves nods to the Assistants and they go to the Elephant

Man. We see them in shadow untying the loose knot of the

loin cloth.

CLOSE-UP of the shadow of the head of the Elephant Man. It

goes up for a breath.

TREVES OFFICE

The Elephant Man (hereafter the E.M.) wearing his cloak, is

seated by the desk. Treves stands behind him, measuring his

head with calipers. He removes the calipers and notes the

span, then sets them on the desk. He places the hood over

the E.M.'s head. Treves sits at his desk and makes some final

notes. He becomes more absorbed in his notes than in the

E.M. The E.M. makes an unintelligible sound.

The E.M. is silent. Treves, only now realizing that the E.M.

has said something, looks up at him.

The E.M. is silent. Treves passes it off as a sigh and turns

back to his work.

He closes his notebook and rises. He remembers something.

He exits. The E.M. is alone. He rises and shuffles slowly

about, investigating the room. He goes to the desk and begins

touching things, including the calipers. He notices the card

Treves gave to the Owner tucked in the back pages. He pauses

for a moment and then takes the card. His hand disappears

into the cloak, and he moves back into the corner behind the

stiff, black operating coat.

Treves re-enters.

The E.M. takes up his stick and follows Treves out.

UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - THE LONDON HOSPITAL

We see Treves and Fox alone at a window. They are looking

down on the hospital square Treves had previously crossed

and see the E.M., lit by gaslight and moving to a waiting

cab.

The E.M., as he is getting into the cab, stops, turns and

looks to the upper stories of the hospital. Treves and Fox

are joined by three laughing colleagues who clap Treves on

the back.

From the upper story we watch the cab drive away.

From outside the window we see Treves surrounded by his

laughing friends.

ENTRY HALL - TREVES' HOME

We see a door. It opens and Treves walks in. He shuts the

door, locks it, goes to a coat rack on the wall and hangs up

his overcoat and hat. He notices his reflection in a mirror

and examines himself wearily. Anne's smiling reflection

appears beside his.

We move past Anne's reflection to a CU of Treves.

WHITECHAPEL - NIGHT

We now see a bunsen burner roar of flame reflected in Bytes'

eyes. Pulling back we see Bytes, quite drunk, sitting, cooking

sausages over the hot brick.

He takes another drink from his gin bottle. Up comes a wet

belch and he takes another drink.

The E.M. is crouched against the wall with a bowl of potatoes

and a cup of water in front of him. With his good hand, he

is picking tiny pieces of potato and feeding himself. The

eating is fairly loud and animal-like. The drinking is even

worse.

The Boy is across the room asleep, wrapped in ragged little

blankets.

The E.M. takes a drink of water, making a loud smacking,

slurping sound.

Bytes looks up from his cooking with a smoldering look, just

waiting for him to make the sound again. He does and Bytes

takes his crop and violently jabs him.

Bytes takes a mouthful of gin and mockingly slurps it

mimicking the E.M.'s sound.

The E.M. picks and eats some more and then drinks again very

tentatively.

Because of his fear the water catches in his throat and he

spits and coughs out onto the floor, gasping and wheezing

for breath.

Bytes is up and whacks him with his riding crop.

The E.M. struggles to get up, carrying his food.

He jabs the E.M. again, spilling his potatoes and water onto

the floor.

He pushes the E.M. again, then slips on the potatoes and

falls heavily to the floor, crying out in shock. Then rage

hits him. The E.M. backs up.

The Boy wakes up in fear. Bytes moves quickly toward the

E.M. raising his crop. The E.M. stumbles and falls backward

onto the floor. His head goes back and he begins gasping for

air. Bytes yanks him up and hits him in the face with his

riding crop. The force of the blow knocks a glob of spit

into the air from the E.M.'s mouth. The E.M. gasps and wheezes

horribly as Bytes hits him again and again.

From across the room.

Bytes goes right on with the beating.

RECEIVING ROOM - LONDON HOSPITAL

We see the eyes of the Boy. As we pull back from them, they

widen with recognition.

WIDE SHOT of the Receiving Room. Treves has entered and the

Boy walks quickly up to him.

INSIDE THE SHOP

We hear the sound of wheezing coming from the E.M. who is

sitting propped up against the stage, wrapped in a blanket.

His head bent forward toward his knees. Bytes is going to

the door as it opens and the Boy leads Treves in.

Treves immediately goes to the E.M.

Treves pulls the blanket away from the E.M. exposing several

bruises and bloody cuts. Treves freezes at the sight and

slowly turns to look at Bytes.

He looks up at the riding crop in the hand of Bytes, then to

the strangely nervous and silent Boy.

Treves turns his attention to the E.M. He lifts his head

higher and examines the E.M.'s eyes. The E.M., who had been

oblivious up until this point, looks into Treves' eyes and

recognizes him. With his good hand, he reaches up and touches

Treves' arm almost as if appealing to him. Treves' eyes lock

on his.

Bytes considers and then snaps his fingers at the Boy who

runs out. He then breaks into an ingratiating grin and leans

down over Treves who busily examines the wheezing E.M.

Treves, uncomfortable, rises. Bytes grips his hand and with

the other gathers the material of his sleeve in a slow

deliberate squeeze.

MORNING - AERIAL SHOT LOOKING DOWN ON HOSPITAL SQUARE

Through a window we see Treves and the E.M. walking through

a back gate and across the square. MR. CARR GOMM, Hospital

Chairman, turns and moves away from the window.

HALLWAY

NURSE NORA IRELAND is pushing a cart filled of empty breakfast

trays down the hall. She glances into the stairwell and sees

Treves and the E.M. coming through the door. She continues

on, startled by the sight of the mysterious hooded figure.

At the end of the hall, she goes into the kitchen.

STAIRWAY

Treves and the E.M. are laboriously climbing a flight of

stairs. The E.M. is puffing and wheezing with the effort.

Treves supports him under his right arm.

KITCHEN

Nora enters with the cart and waits for it to be restocked.

She leans out the door for another look, but the hall is

empty. A Nurse ladles mush into bowls.

There is a lot of activity in the kitchen. Nora takes the

cart stacked with full trays and pushes it out the door and

down the hallway.

HALLWAY

Treves and the E.M. cross the hallway and head up a narrow

stairway towards the attic. There is a sign reading

"Isolation".

Carr Gomm is leaning out the door to his office, unseen by

Treves. He closes the door.

GENERAL WARD - LONDON HOSPITAL - MORNING

It is a long, high ceilinged room with large windows along

one wall. Beds run the length of both sides of the room. It

is a woman's ward and nurses are serving the patients

breakfast. Nora enters and nurses take trays from her cart.

Nora's mind is on what she has just seen. We see Mothershead

come in the door behind her.

Mothershead walks on, as Nora now very flustered, picks up a

tray.

ISOLATION WARD

CU of a bottle of dark fluid and a bottle of light fluid.

Treves mixes the two in a glass. We are in a small oddly

shaped room off the attic ward.

There is one tiny barred window located high up on the far

wall. There is also a bed, two hard chairs and a table. The

E.M. is sitting on the bed in shadow and his disguise is now

hanging from a peg on the wall beside him. He is still

wheezing and appears to be very weak. Treves serves the

mixture to the E.M., who sputters and gags on it, but manages

to get it down. Treves goes to the table and puts the two

bottles in his bag. He goes to the door and turns to the

E.M.

The two men just look at each other.

KITCHEN - LONDON HOSPITAL

Treves enters the kitchen and nicks up a bowl. A NURSE ladles

some porridge for him.

Treves exits and the nurses admiringly watch him go.

FIRST FLOOR LANDING AND HALLWAY

Treves climbs the stairs onto the landing. Down the hall,

Mr. Carr Gomm is walking toward his office. Treves tries not

to be seen, but to no avail.

Treves hesitates, trying to hide the bowl, but gives up and

goes down the hall to meet Carr Gomm.

Carr Gomm calls a Nurse from a nearby ward over. It is Nora.

He takes the bowl from Treves and hands it to her.

He gestures toward his office door. As he and Treves enter

the office, Nora looks apprehensively up the isolation ward

stairs.

MR. CARR GOMM'S OFFICE

It is a small, elegantly furnished room with a large window.

The two men sit, Carr Gomm behind his desk and Treves in a

leather chair.

ISOLATION WARD (A) AND STAIRWAY (B) CARR GOMM'S OFFICE (C)

(A) The E.M. is asleep in his sleeping posture on the bed.

(B) Nora, with the bowl, is climbing the stairs to the attic

ward. She pauses in sight of the door and looks apprehensively

at it. She begins to hum to give herself courage, and

continues up the stairs.

(A) The E.M. awakens, hears the footsteps, and now the

humming, which grows in volume. He becomes fearful and reaches

for his cloak. The humming stops. He freezes and listens.

(C) Treves and Carr Gomm seated as before.

(B) Nora stands outside the door, listening. She is barely

breathing.

(A) The E.M., still listening, slowly lets his hand drop

away from the cloak.

(B) Nora opens the door.

(A) The E.M. grabs for the cloak as the door swings open

flooding him with light. We see him for the first time in

his entirety. CU of Nora screaming and dropping the tray. CU

of the caught E.M.

(C) The shrill scream is heard from upstairs.

Treves rushes out. Carr Gomm just sits for a moment, thinking.

ISOLATION WARD LANDING

Treves, rushing up the stairs, reaches the landing. Nora is

at the railing, crying. The door is open, the breakfast tray

littering the floor. The E.M. is on the bed trying to squeeze

into the corner. Treves quickly closes the door and tries to

comfort Nora.

Drying her eyes, she goes downstairs.

ISOLATION WARD

Closing the door, Treves steps over the spilt breakfast and

goes to the E.M.

The E.M. makes a garbled sound.

Treves, alone with the E.M., once more finds himself becoming

uncomfortable.

The E.M. is silent.

Treves puts out a comforting hand to the E.M. who flinches

back. The two men just look at each other.

GENERAL WARD

Several Nurses are taking bath things off a cart. At the

other end of the room, Mothershead is talking to a patient.

Nora enters and walks over to Mothershead. They talk, and

Mothershead exits. Nora joins the other nurses.

We see Nora's face. She is silent.

ISOLATION WARD LANDING

Mothershead knocks on the door. Treves opens it, comes out

onto the landing and closes the door.

Treves opens the door.

ISOLATION WARD

Mothershead goes right to the mess.

Merrick looks up to Mothershead, then averts his eyes. He

looks back at her and sees she has no difficulty being in

his presence.

ISOLATION WARD LANDING

At the door of Merrick's attic room stand two buckets of

very dirty water. We hear footsteps coming up stairs and see

a young porter carrying two buckets of clean, steaming water.

He puts them down, knocks on the door, and takes the dirty

water downstairs. The door opens, Mrs. Mothershead picks up

the steaming buckets and takes them inside, shutting the

door.

ISOLATION WARD

Merrick's seated in a tin bathtub trying to hide his

nakedness. Mrs. Mothershead pours the water in. She scrubs

his back with obvious distaste, but does her job. Months of

filth and accumulated excrescence are turning the bath water

a murky black. As Mothershead scrubs, Merrick slowly leans

forward in the bath, closing his eyes, apparently oblivious

to his surroundings.

Treves sits beside him.

Merrick's eyes flicker.

Merrick flinches and pulls away.

Treves leans forward and looks at Merrick. Merrick grows

still, his eyes closed, apparently in a reverie.

Merrick is listening.

At this word, Merrick begins to babble wildly. Obviously

alarmed, he thrashes about in the tub, spilling water onto

the floor. Treves, alarmed now himself, attempts to calm

Merrick, who, still babbling, tries to rise from the tub.

Mothershead clamps a hand on Merrick's left arm. At her touch,

he is instantly subdued, at least physically. He sinks back

into the tub and begins to weep. Treves and Mothershead are

astounded by the tears rolling down Merrick's cheeks. They

stand motionless looking down at the agonized, naked elephant

man.

FOLLOWING BUCKETS OF DIRTY WATER DOWN A HALLWAY BACK ENTRANCE -

ALLEY

The young PORTER is exiting with great difficulty through a

large iron door carrying the two buckets. He sets one of the

buckets down, takes the other and splashes it out into the

alley. Some thick sludge dribbles from the empty bucket.

Unseen by him, the NIGHT PORTER is standing just to the side

and he now comes forward. The young Porter seems nervous in

his presence.

The Night Porter looks at his spattered shoes, then up to

the Young Porter.

Suddenly the Night Porter kicks the other bucket of filthy

water violently, sending it splashing all over the young

Porter.

He lets his cigarette drop to the ground, then stamps and

grinds it with his brass-heeled boot, all the while smiling.

Then he turns on his heel and leaves.

Dark clouds rolling through an evening sky.

ATTIC WARD

Through the high barred window, we see the dark sky. The

E.M. is on his bed in his sleeping posture. A dim gaslight

burns in the room.

CLOSE-UP of his head on the points of his knees. His breathing

is more regular now.

A GENERAL WARD

Lights are being turned off.

ANOTHER WARD

Lights go off.

BACK ENTRANCE

Large iron door is closed.

HALLWAY

Half the lights go off.

HALLWAY

Nurses leave for their quarters - half the lights go off.

SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY

We hear the slow metallic footfalls of the Night Porter's

boots. He appears and walks into a darkened women's ward.

The women are all asleep. Some coughing fitfully, others

moaning quietly. The Night Porter walks down the aisle between

the beds. We see several of the sleeping women as he passes

them. Finally, he comes to a young beautiful woman, her eyes

wide open, watching him with intense fear. On either side of

her are two very ancient women, snoring deeply. The young

woman has her arms tied, suspended in traction above her.

The Night Porter moves to her, his shadow engulfing her.

She starts to move, rattling the apparatus above her. The

Porter puts a finger to his lips.

She turns her head away, closing her eyes. He moves in.

CLOSE-UP of a gas light in a hallway. The leaping flame makes

a low roar.

CUT TO ANOTHER HALLWAY

Somewhere a door is opened and the squeak sounds vaguely

like the trumpeting of an elephant. We hear again the metallic

footfalls of the Night Porter's boots, and he appears. He

goes to the narrow stairway marked, "Isolation".

He stops and casually looks about. He takes a swig of his

gin, then starts up the stairs.

ATTIC WARD

Merrick as before the light is very dim. We hear the echoing

footfalls of the Night Porter coming up the stairs. Merrick's

head immediately comes up from his knees. As it does, a small

object falls from where his head rested.

He picks it up and puts it in a pocket of his cloak. it is

the portrait of the beautiful woman, which he saw in his

dream.

Suddenly the door swings open and the Night Porter, bottle

in hand, is standing there. He walks into the room and sees

Merrick's shape on the bed.

He turns up the light and sees Merrick clearly. The Night

Porter jumps back, awe struck.

Merrick is trembling. The Night Porter, hardly able to believe

his eyes, moves slowly toward Merrick. He is afraid but as

he reaches the bed, Merrick flinches back. The Night Porter

grins, his fear gone now. He is in control.

Merrick cowers as far away from the Night Porter as possible.

He takes a big swallow of the gin and smiles.

He offers Merrick his bottle with a swift, almost jabbing

motion. Merrick pulls away from him.

He tentatively presses the bottom of the bottle up against

the hanging growth on Merrick's chest. Encouraged, he touches

him with his fingers. Merrick makes a small whimpering sound.

He moves to the door and turns.

CLOSE-UP of Night Porter's face.

He moves out the door and it closes. In the bed, Merrick

looks at the door with terror as the heavy footfalls of the

Night Porter recede down the stairs.

WHITECHAPEL ROAD

We see a horse's head in CU, snorting steam into the chill

morning air. The horse is harnessed to a milk wagon parked

in front of the London. Through the open back of the wagon

we see the MILKMAN, and past him Treves, walking towards us.

Treves walks up the path into the hospital.

HALLWAY (MORNING)

Treves, carrying a bowl, crosses the upper hall and starts

to the narrow stairway to the Isolation Ward. Over his

shoulder we see him knock twice on the door. As the door

swings open, the camera pushes past him and we see the room.

The lamp is still burning, but Merrick is nowhere to be seen.

Treves enters, looking about for him.

There's movement in the corner beside the bed. Merrick rises

slightly from the shadow. The light from the lamp hits his

frightened eyes.

Treves is unsettled by the sight of Merrick cowering down on

the floor.

Merrick begins to babble. Treves enters the room, placing

the bowl on the table and going to Merrick.

He helps Merrick up onto the bed and goes back to the table

for the bowl.

He has turned back to the bed, but Merrick has slipped to

the floor again, still trying to hide himself in the corner.

He puts the bowl down again and goes back to Merrick, who

seems very upset at leaving his hiding place.

He starts to help Merrick up, but Merrick just presses himself

farther back in the corner, still babbling. There are two

raps at the door. Treves goes to it and lets Mothershead in.

They both look at the bed. Merrick has almost disappeared

under it.

She goes to Merrick and takes hold of his left wrist.

She starts to force him up from the floor. Merrick is moaning

now, still trying to get away.

By this time Mothershead has almost got him back on the bed.

They help Merrick settle back on the pillow. Merrick is still

making desperate, unintelligible sounds.

She exits. Treves shuts the door behind her and turns back

to the bed.

He goes to the bed and sits down in front of Merrick, angered

by his own seeming uselessness in the situation.

Merrick hesitates, then starts babbling again.

Slowly Merrick nods yes.

Treves carefully mouths the word.

Merrick is still hesitant, from years of fear, but his eyes

betray a growing excitement. Slowly, he tries to talk, his

voice a tremulous whisper.

Throughout their dialogue, Merrick is still very garbled,

but he no longer babbles. He makes a great effort to speak

slowly, to form words the way Treves forms them, to be

understood.

DISSOLVE TO HALLWAY

Mrs. Mothershead comes out of the kitchen with a supper tray

and walks down the hall, passing the open ward door. We see

nurses serving patients their supper. Nora comes out of the

ward with a tray which she holds tightly against her. A bowl

of soup is spilling on her apron. She catches up with

Mothershead. They speak as they walk.

Mothershead continues on. Nora guiltily watches her go.

ISOLATION WARD

Treves and Merrick are absorbed in their work. A knock comes

at the door.

Mothershead enters.

Mrs. Mothershead sets the tray down beside Merrick.

He and Mothershead exit. Merrick watches the door close. He

sighs quietly, looks about, and sees the Bible on the bedside

table. He picks it up and, gently runs his fingers over the

cover.

RECEIVING ROOM - THE LONDON

There is total pandemonium in the receiving room. The room

is filled with screaming men, women and children. Two drunken

women have been fighting with broken bottles and are now

covered with blood and cuts. The women are still hysterical,

one minute they're sobbing, then in an instant screaming and

intent upon fighting again. The crowd keeps them apart. Two

Bobbies stand in the background making no move to intercede.

To the side we see Bytes watching everything. It is still

too violent a scene for the Nurses to come to the women's

aide and they stand up in the front of the room waiting.

Bytes makes his way along the side of the crowd waiting for

a chance to get behind the Nurses and on into the hospital.

Now the women begin sobbing again and things quiet some. The

Nurses come forward into the crowd. Bytes moves over closer

to the hallways. When the Nurses have all gone into the crowd

he seizes the chance and disappears into the hospital.

Bytes appears and walks down hospital hallway looking about.

CARR GOMM'S OFFICE

The door opens and Treves enters.

Treves sits in the armchair. Carr Gomm is sitting at his

desk.

HALLWAY - STAIRCASE - THE LONDON

We see Treves leave Carr Gomm's office and walk toward us to

the stairwell.

As Treves begins down the stairs, he sees Bytes on the next

landing coming up.

Bytes spots him and goes toward him.

Now we see Carr Gomm standing above them, at the top of the

stairs.

Livid, Bytes looks from Carr Gomm to Treves, at a loss for

words.

He backs slowly down to the landing eyeing Treves and Carr

Gomm. At the landing he casually turns and disappears down

more stairs. Treves turns and gazes at Carr Gomm.

They part company. We follow Treves down the stairs.

Then we follow Carr Gomm to his office door. He stops short.

HALLWAYS - THE LONDON (NIGHT)

Again, the hospital is closing down for the night. Lights go

off in each hallway. The staff is vacating the hospital. As

the last light goes off, we hear the great iron door slam

shut.

TREVES' HOUSE - BEDROOM (NIGHT)

Anne is at her dressing table, brushing out her hair. She is

in a very flattering dressing gown, ready to turn in. We see

her reflected in the mirror as well as Treves who is in his

robe in the background seated at his side of their bed, deep

in thought. Anne looks at Treves and smiles affectionately.

Getting no response she renews her efforts.

Anne puts down the brush and rises.

Anne, sympathizing with his concerns goes to him and puts

her arms around him.

She releases Treves and lies down. Treves realizes that

perhaps he has been unkind.

Anne sits back up and gently places her hand over Treves'

mouth. As she does so she leans forward and turns out the

light.

ISOLATION WARD

Merrick is propped up in bed. Suddenly the door bursts open.

The Night Porter, an arm around a drunken giggling tart,

stands in the doorway. As soon as the Charwoman sees Merrick,

she screams as does Merrick, and she wriggles free, making

for the stairs. The Night Porter watches her go and then

turns to Merrick laughing noisily. He then pulls the door

shut with a bang.

Merrick, very frightened, crawls down into his hiding place.

BEDROOM (MORNING)

We see Anne alone in bed, asleep. Treves is finished dressing

and leaves the room. The sound of the door closing awakens

Anne. She looks around for Treves. A clock reads 5:30.

ISOLATION WARD

Merrick's disguise hangs on the wall.

WE NOW SEE TREVES AND MERRICK

HALLWAY

Treves and Carr Gomm are speaking together as they walk along.

Treves cannot easily answer this question.

Carr Gomm starts up the stairs. Treves remains behind,

watching him for a moment, then follows.

ISOLATION WARD

Merrick is standing beside his disguise on its hook. He

nervously smooths the cloak down, repositions the Bible on

the bedside table and smooths the cloak again. He looks at

the door, expecting it to open. It doesn't. His hands smooths

the cloak over and over again. Voices can be heard outside

the door.

Merrick freezes.

There are two raps at the door. Merrick flinches, clutching

the cloak. The raps are repeated. He pulls himself together

and walks to the middle of the room. He takes a deep breath

and closes his eyes.

The door opens and Treves and Carr Gomm enter. Carr Gomm's

eyes are rivited on Merrick, but he contains his shock.

Merrick is breathing unevenly, his eyes still closed. Treves

goes to him and touches his shoulder. Merrick opens his eyes

and looks up at Treves. Treves turns to Carr Gomm, as does

Merrick. Carr Gomm lowers his eyes.

Carr Gomm, still shaken, instinctively offers his hand.

Before Carr Gomm can withdraw his hand, Merrick grasps it

with his left hand.

There is an uncomfortable silence. Merrick releases it. Carr

Gomn, nervously clears his throat.

There is another agonizing silence.

Merrick is at a loss. This is not part of the expected

scenario.

Merrick doesn't seem to understand.

Carr Gomm stares levelly at Treves for a moment, then asks

Merrick:

Treves stiffens.

Merrick looks at Treves for guidance, but Treves cannot look

him in the eye.

Treves and Carr Gomm go out the door onto the landing. Merrick

sees his chance escaping him and tries to recapture their

attention.

Treves and Carr Gomm are alone on the landing, speaking

quietly.

Merrick has come to the end of what Treves taught him to

say. He makes one last, desperate attempt to be heard.

Treves, disheartened, stands on the landing as Carr Gomm

starts down the stairs.

Treves is staring, open-mouthed, back into the room. Carr

Gomm looks up at him.

Treves rushes back into the room, followed by Carr Gomm.

There is a long silence as all three men stare at each other.

ISOLATION WARD

A few minutes later. We hear voices inside the room.

The door opens and Carr Gomm and Treves come out.

He closes the door.

He starts down the stairs.

Carr Gomm stops on the stairs.

ISOLATION WARD

Merrick is on the bed, propped up by pillows. The door opens.

Treves comes in, shuts the door and leans against it. They

look at each other for a moment.

CARR GOMM'S OFFICE

Carr Gomm is seated at the window, looking out silently.

There is a knock at the door and Treves enters. He quietly

closes the door and walks to the window. Carr Gomm never

moves.

Carr Gomm suddenly stands and faces Treves.

ISOLATION WARD

Merrick is in bed, very tired. It's been an exhausting day.

Suddenly the door opens and Mothershead comes into the room.

Merrick looks up at her very apprehensively. She walks over

to the bed, picks up the Bible from the table, opens it and

hands it to Merrick.

Merrick looks down at the Bible.

Mothershead backs slowly to the door, deeply disturbed. She

stares at Merrick for a moment.

She quickly turns and exits. Merrick looks down at the Bible.

It is open to "Lamentations".

HALLWAY - THE LONDON (NIGHT)

As before the lights are going off in one hallway after

another. The hallways are empty, dark and silent. We hear

the great iron door close with a bang.

ISOLATION WARD (NIGHT)

Merrick is in his bed as always. He holds the portrait of

the beautiful woman, gazing at it longingly. He hears a door

close far away in the silence of the hospital.

Suddenly we hear the heavy footfalls of the Night Porter's

boots. As they get louder and louder we move slowly closer

to Merrick's face.

The sound is very close now, and Merrick's eyes are visibly

agitated.

Finally, the door bursts open and the Night Porter is standing

there. He stares malevolently at Merrick for a long moment

and then walks to him menacingly.

He grabs Merrick fiercely by the hair and jerks his head

back. Merrick immediately starts to wheeze and gasp.

He pulls Merrick all the way down onto the bed, so that he

is prone, struggling for breath.

The Night Porter is as first surprised, and then pleased at

the desperate sound.

Satisfied, the Night Porter rights Merrick who is just able

to catch his breath. The Night Porter smiles and pats Merrick

on the shoulder.

HALLWAY

Treves and Carr Gomm are on their way to the committee

meeting, confident of their position. Treves is holding a

folder, and Carr Gomm is looking at the photographs of

Merrick.

Treves is silent. They stop.

They continue walking.

He looks at the pictures.

They go through a door marked "Committee Room".

COMMITTEE ROOM - THE LONDON HOSPITAL

We see a pair of hands. One of the photographs of Merrick is

passed to them.

They hold it for a moment, then lay it down flat on the table.

One of the hands covers the photograph with a piece of paper.

We pan up from the hands to see BROADNECK, his face pinched

with disgust. He sniffs, and gazes coolly at Treves.

Carr Gomm, from his chair on the committee, pounds his gavel.

Carr Gomm and another committee member raise their hands.

Broadneck is displeased.

One of the committee members says "I quite agree". Carr Gomm

scowls a bit.

Carr Gomm raises his hand. None of the others do. Treves and

Carr Gomm exchange hopeless glances. Carr Gomm looks at the

man who had originally raised his hand. He looks away,

ashamed.

Broadneck and the rest raise their hands.

Carr Gomm cannot conceal his contempt.

The others cough their agreement and hurriedly leave the

room. Treves walks over to the committee table and takes the

paper off the photograph. He stares sadly at Merrick's

picture.

THEATRE DRESSING ROOM

We see a very lovely WOMAN seated in a chair before a mirror.

She is reading aloud from The Times. Her hair is being brushed

by a YOUNG GIRL.

She turns to the girl thoughtfully.

DINING HALL - THE LONDON

The room is elegantly furnished and heavily carpeted. The

walls are panelled in richly gleaming walnut with finely

wrought brass lamps spaced regularly along their length. In

the center of the room is a long oak table with a fine linen

table cloth, around which sits a number of Doctors, among

them, Fox.

Some of them are still eating. A waiter is clearing away a

few plates and several Doctors are helping themselves to

port wine kept in decanters in the center of the table and

to cigars in humidors. One of them is reading The Times. At

one end of the table sits Treves, picking at his food.

The group laughs.

There is a short pause.

The group again laughs. Treves clears his throat and rises.

Treves leaves the room.

A deep silence falls over the Doctors.

BEDSTEAD SQUARE ROOMS (NIGHT)

We see a small, very dusty, dirty room, filled with boxes

and bedsteads and other things stored over the years. The

one grimy window is locked shut.

The door opens and two middle-aged CHARWOMEN enter. They

look around at the room with distaste and drop their mops

and buckets.

She reaches into her apron pocket and pulls out a pint bottle

of gin. She takes a drink and passes it to her friend.

The 1st Woman takes the bottle and walks across the room.

She forces open the balky window and sits on the sill.

The 1st Woman, laughing, takes another healthy swig from the

bottle. We see past her through the window, the dark

silhouette of the main spire of St. Philip's Cathedral against

the sky.

It fills the screen.

ISOLATION WARD

Merrick sitting on his bed, hunched over in concentration

reading an Illustrated London News. He is staring at a picture

of the Eddystone Lighthouse.

He looks at the picture silently. There is a knock at the

door. Merrick says, "Come in". Treves enters, holding a book.

He holds the book out to him. It's an "Alice In Wonderland".

He lovingly feels the leather binding and looks at Treves

with speechless gratitude.

Merrick carefully opens the book to a colored frontpiece,

the picture of Alice grown too large for a hallway, looking

imploringly at the dwarfed White Rabbit. The caption reads

"...curiouser and curiouser". He leafs through the pages

looking at the other illustrations as Treves, delighted with

the gift's effect, looks on.

Treves smiles broadly and exits.

Treves' words have disturbed Merrick. He sinks into the

pillows, the book before him. We see the picture of the Mock

Turtle perched upon his rock, great tears rolling down his

cow-like face, as Alice and the Gryphon look on with intense

sympathy. Merrick looks up at his disguise hanging on the

wall.

THE PEACOCK PUB - WHITECHAPEL

The Night Porter enters and saunters over to the noisy crowd.

As they welcome him, he slaps down The Times on the bar

counter for all to see.

The Night Porter has the undivided attention of the people

in the pub.

He lifts his glass to his lips. We move back to see Bytes'

boys who, having heard the Night Porter's words, slips

unnoticed from the pub.

HALLWAY - MOVING DAY

Merrick, in his disguise, and Treves, one arm around him,

are walking together. Merrick seems very uneasy.

A Nurse, on duty early or late getting off, passes them. She

stares at the hooded figure. They continue on in silence.

BEDSTEAD SQUARE ROOM

The room is now spotless. It is furnished with a bed and the

required pillows, a small table and chair by the window, now

curtained. Adjoining this room is a smaller one which contains

a bathtub.

Merrick enters and looks around, confused. Treves stands in

the doorway.

Merrick turns to him.

Merrick pulls off his hood. His eyes are bewildered.

Merrick's eyes glisten with held back tears. He lowers them.

Merrick inspects his new home. He seems pleased-by the

bathtub, by the table, by the window to the outside world.

Merrick pulls the curtain aside and opens the window. He

looks out and then up with a small intake of breath. Before

him, beyond the hospital fence, the spire of St. Phillips

Cathedral stands resplendently in the morning light.

HALLWAY

We see Carr Gomm walking to his office. He is met at the

door by an anxious Treves.

Carr Gomm goes back into his office and Treves walks off.

MERRICK'S ROOM (A WHILE LATER)

There is no one in the room. The bathroom door opens and

Nora and another nurse enter, carrying buckets which they

set down by the hall door. They straighten up and lean back

against it.

Mrs. Mothershead enters from the bathroom, speaking over her

shoulder to Merrick.

The girls try to keep bright faces.

Mothershead starts to exit.

She exits.

Merrick quietly enters the room, dressed in a billowy white

shirt and baggy black pants. The two nurses try to smile,

but he cannot look at them.

Kathleen's eyes go wide at the sound.

Merrick looks down at himself.

The girls leave, taking the buckets.

Merrick, alone, walks about the room getting the feel of his

new clothes.

There is a knock at the door and Treves enters.

ENTRY HALL AND SITTING ROOM - TREVES' HOME

The door opens. Merrick, disguised, enters, followed by Treves

who closes it and hangs up Merrick's mask on the coat rack.

The mirror has been removed, leaving a faint outline on the

wall.

Merrick is enchanted by the house. Treves takes him by the

arm and leads him into the sitting room. Anne appears at the

top of the stairs.

Treves comes back to the foot of the stairs and smiles up at

Anne.

Anne manages a smile, comes down the stairs and together

they go into the sitting room.

Merrick is examining everything in the room. Nothing in this

almost magical world escapes his attention. The furniture,

the personal mementoes, particularly the pictures on the

fireplace. He turns around when he hears them enter, lowering

his eyes.

Anne is startled, but conceals it very well.

Anne extends her hand. John takes her hand and looks up very

slowly meeting her eyes. Anne smiles.

Then, Merrick bursts into tears. Anne is at a loss as to

what to do. Merrick takes his hand from hers and covers his

eyes, weeping pitiously. Treves puts his hand on Merrick's

shoulder.

Treves and Anne exchange worried looks.

Anne goes now to get the tea.

Merrick cannot answer through his sobs.

KITCHEN

Anne is composing herself by busily fixing the tea and cakes.

She stops for a moment, takes a breath, and then resumes her

activity.

Treves and Merrick coming down the stairs. Merrick is calm

now. They go into the sitting room, where Anne is just setting

the tea tray out. Treves ushers Merrick to a highbacked sofa

and sits him down. Merrick is very shy of Anne.

Treves and Anne sit on the other side of the table.

Anne serves the tea.

Treves and Anne laugh good-naturedly. Merrick's face, as

always, is quite blank.

Treves goes to the fireplace and takes down a few pictures.

He hands a picture of the girls to Merrick.

Merrick sets the picture down carefully.

He reaches into his cloak and brings out the small portrait

of the beautiful woman. Treves is absolutely amazed. Merrick

gently hands the picture to Anne.

At this, Anne is so extremely touched that she begins to

cry. She tries to hold it in, but to no avail. She reaches a

hand out to Merrick and he takes it. He tries to comfort

her.

But Anne goes on, as Treves, in wonder, watches her and

Merrick locked together in the communication of intense

sympathy.

REAR ENTRANCE - THE LONDON

Merrick, in the dimly lit rear hall, is huddled over a trash

can tucked underneath a stairway. He pulls out a discarded

drug box. He holds it closely to his chest and goes into his

room.

MERRICK'S ROOM

Merrick goes to his table and puts the box down. He hangs up

his disguise, then goes back to the window and pulls the

curtains aside. Moonlight bathes the table, illuminating the

portrait of his Mother. John seats himself and sets the box

in front of him. He reaches for a pencil, and then begins to

draw windows on the front of the box.

OUTSIDE MERRICK'S ROOM (MORNING)

Nora is coming down the hall with a breakfast tray. She stops

at Merrick's door and raises a hand to knock.

MERRICK'S ROOM

Merrick, as before, is hunched over the table, pencil in

hand. The sides of the box are covered with carefully drawn

windows and archways.

There is a knock at the door and Merrick, startled, looks

up. Nora enters and puts the tray on the table. She glances

at the box.

She turns and walks to the cabinet for linen and bath

supplies. She opens it and takes out a clean towel and a

blanket. She pauses, and turns to look back at the table.

Merrick is concentrated on his work. Nora, curious now, walks

to the table.

Merrick, conscious of her presence, leans back in his chair

and looks up at her.

Merrick is silent.

Merrick points through the window.

Merrick points out toward the hallway.

She sets the towel and blanket down as she leans closer to

inspect the box.

She points to a circle drawn on top.

Nora looks at the box.

Merrick, at a loss, shrugs his shoulders. The movement makes

Nora aware of his body, and he is the Elephant Man once again.

She quickly exits. Merrick watches her go and then turns

back to his work.

He sees the towel and the blanket. He turns quickly to call

after Nora, but stops himself. Merrick takes up the towel

and blanket, walks into the bathroom, and carefully drapes

the towel over the back of the bath.

MERRICK'S ROOM

Merrick is at his table working on his cathedral. There is a

knock at the door.

Treves enters.

Merrick is a trifle apprehensive, but he agrees. Treves ushers

MRS. KENDAL through the door. At the sight of her, Merrick's

eyes go wide.

She-hands Merrick a nicely framed picture of herself. Merrick

is speechless, overjoyed by the gift.

He places it, with great care, next to his mother's portrait.

Treves smiles at them.

Merrick is a trifle nervous but Mrs. Kendal smiles at him

and he relaxes a little.

She produces a beautiful leather-bound volume of Shakespeare's

works. Merrick takes it with reverence and begins to leaf

through it.

Merrick finds a place and begins to read.

Merrick, embarrassed by these last words, starts to close

the book.

Mrs. Kendal knows Juliet's lines by heart. She looks at

Merrick for a moment, then replies tenderly.

Merrick pauses, looking at Kendal, then continues.

They both look at each other for a long, silent moment. Treves

is touched and amazed.

THE PEACOCK - WHITECHAPEL

People are happily drinking and singing and laughing. Bytes

and the boy are keeping a watchful eye on the Night Porter,

who is making a deal with a couple of men at a table. They

hand over a few coins and follow the Night Porter out of the

pub. Bytes finishes his beer and thumps the glass down on

the bar. He wipes his mouth with his sleeve and he and the

boy casually follow the other three men out.

Bytes and the boy stand by the pub door, watching the men

cross the street and go to the back gate of the hospital

which the Night Porter unlocks, and leaves unlocked, but

closed, behind them. They walk into Bedstead Square, laughing

quietly.

Bytes crosses the street and goes to the gate. He walks along

the iron fence and watches the Night Porter and his

"customers". He stops and waits to see where they go.

The Night Porter stands the two men before a window and

motions for them to wait. He goes through a door into the

hospital. After a few moments the window opens wide, and

there, neatly framed and silhouetted, stand Merrick and the

Night Porter, gripping Merrick's neck. The two men outside

start back in shock, but stand mesmerized by what they see.

We hear the laughter of the Night Porter echo across the

empty square.

Bytes smiles broadly and says softly to himself.

A SITTING ROOM

We see a small circle of women having tea and gossip. One of

their daughters, off to the side, is reading a newspaper

society page.

She has got the women's attention.

LONDON HOSPITAL GATE

A carriage draws up in the street outside the hospital. A

nicely dressed woman sticks her head out the window, looks

around and scowls disappointedly.

Nearby is parked another carriage and driver.

They drive off.

Above Merrick's bookshelf we see a row of framed pictures of

prettily smiling society women. Mrs. Kendal has started a

fad. We pan slowly by them and down to Merrick's table where

his Mother and Mrs. Kendal have their place of honor. The

cathedral is also there. Beside it is a modest tea service.

We now see a GENTLEMAN standing behind a seated LADY. They

hold teacups.

They are both very attractive and empty-headed, and seem on

the verge of screaming. They smile at Merrick who has been

talking the whole while.

Merrick holds an elegant, silvertipped walking stick across

his lap, and admires a ring that only fits his little finger.

The Lady and Gentleman nod nervously. John takes the teapot

from the service and refills their cups. The Lady's hand

shakes, rattling the cup against the saucer.

We see the smiling pictures.

We see the picture of Merrick's Mother.

We draw close to his Mother's picture.

THE RECEIVING ROOM

Treves walks the Lord and Lady, their faces locked in terrible

silence, to the door. Mothershead, at her desk, watches them

pass with great disapproval.

As they turn to go, their faces drop, their loathing

undisguised. Treves closes the door. He goes to Mothershead.

He starts to go. Mothershead steps in front of him, detaining

him.

MERRICK'S ROOM

We pan across Merrick's bookcase, now quite full, and we see

a few titles: "Moll Flanders", "Emma', "Jane Eyre", "Pamela",

and then to Merrick. He and Treves are reading poetry

together.

Merrick closes his book and sits silently for a moment.

Treves is taken aback. He considers, then says tentatively.

Merrick rises. Treves ponders over what Merrick has just

said. He looks at Merrick and something very odd happens.

Merrick is looking levelly at him.

For the first and only time, we see expression on his face.

It is a calm, knowing look, almost a benign smile. At that

very moment there is a bright flash of light behind Merrick's

head, seemingly from the window. Treves blinks, unable to

comprehend what has just happened. When he looks again, the

moment has passed. Merrick, his back to Treves, moves to the

bookcase to replace the volume.

There's a knock at the door.

Nora enters with a brown paper parcel tied with string.

Merrick says nothing.

She puts the parcel on the table and opens it. We see several

squares of new cardboard, a cutting knife, a pastepot, and a

few brushes and some paint.

Merrick examines the materials with reverence, and thanks

her profusely.

Treves is moved and a little disconcerted. Merrick lays the

things aside carefully and begins to pull the crude spires

from the discarded box. Nora smiles at the busy Merrick and

exits.

Treves notices to his dismay that the growths on Merrick's

head are larger.

He finds it very difficult to disguise his concern.

Merrick is silent. He goes over to his cloak, reaches into

it and pulls out a folded up advertisement. He hands it to

Treves, who examines it closely. It is an advertisement for

an-elegant gentleman's dressing bag, boasting ivory brushes,

silver fittings and Moroccan silk lining.

HALLWAY

Mrs. Mothershead finds Treves walking slowly down the hall,

looking at the ad.

He walks off.

MERRICK'S ROOM (DUSK)

Merrick is still at his cathedral working away. Suddenly, he

looks up at the window and the Night Porter is standing there

smiling wickedly, pointing a finger at him.

SITTING ROOM - TREVES' HOME

Treves is standing by a table on which are two stacks of

books. Treves selects books from the stacks and puts them

into a box. Treves looks troubled. He takes one from the

pile and examines it. It's a copy of "Frankenstein".

Getting no response, she enters.

She holds him in her arms.

We see from Treves' eyes that he is not reassured.

BASEMENT - THE LONDON

It is very dark. There is a dim red glow coming from the

holes in a furnace door. We hear a door open and footsteps

coming downstairs. A man comes into the basement carrying

something large and black. He approaches the furnace and

opens the door.

The man is Treves. He is holding the stiff black surgeon's

coat of which he was once so proud. He looks at it for a

moment, and then stuffs it into the furnace. Inside, the

coat starts to smoke heavily, then bursts into flames.

Treves watches it burn, and then closes the door.

HALLWAY - THE LONDON HOSPITAL

We see Carr Gomm walking down the hall to his office.

Broadneck appears, going the other way.

Broadneck walks on. Carr Gomm goes into his office.

CARR'S OFFICE

Mothershead is standing by the desk looking through a small

stack of mail.

HALLWAY

We see in a pair of hands holding a buff colored envelope

embossed with the Royal Seal. We follow the hands down the

hall to a door where one of the hands knocks next to the

"F.C. Carr Gomm" sign, then enters the office.

CARR'S OFFICE

Carr Gomm and Mothershead look up to see a porter with the

buff envelope enter. Carr Gomm takes the letter and the porter

exits. Carr Gomm opens the letter and reads, his expression

changing from concern to delight.

Carr Gomm hands her the letter. Never having touched Royal

stationary before, Mothershead handles it delicately. She

begins to read.

COMMITTEE ROOM - THE LONDON

Broadneck and the other committee members are seated at their

table, anxious to get the meeting underway. They talk among

themselves.

The door opens and Carr Gomm and Treves enter. Treves seems

quite nervous, but Carr Gomm is relaxed and smiling.

Treves sits and Carr Gomm takes his place at the head of the

table and raps his gavel.

Broadneck explodes to his feet. Carr Gomm smiles at Treves,

who looks quite grim.

CUT TO MERRICK'S ROOM

Merrick is working on his cathedral, painting details with a

very fine brush.

As he lifts the brush from the paint jar, a drop falls on

the table. Merrick carefully lays down the brush and wipes

up the spilled paint with a cloth.

CUT TO COMMITTEE ROOM

Carr Gomm still smiles. Treves is about to spring to Merrick's

defense, but Carr Gomm catches his eyes and motions for him

to remain silent. Treves is perplexed. Carr Gomm checks his

pocket watch.

CUT TO MERRICK'S ROOM

Merrick as before, busily working away. We see a ladybug

crawling slowly across the roof of the cathedral. Merrick

notices it and watches for a moment, then reaches up and

lays a finger alongside the bug. The bug crawls onto his

finger and Merrick holds it closer to him.

CUT TO WHITECHAPEL ROAD

We see a Royal carriage glide to a stop in front of the

hospital. A footman jumps down and opens the door. A very

elegantly dressed woman begins to emerge.

CUT TO COMMITTEE ROOM

Broadneck is still talking.

Broadneck turns to Carr Gomm. Carr Gomm checks his watch and

clears his throat.

Broadneck blusters with rage.

Carr Gomm smiles and again checks his watch. Treves is very

nervous.

CUT TO HALLWAY

We see two nurses, their backs to us, walking down the hall.

They start to go in a doorway when they stop suddenly, very

startled, and curtsey deeply.

Mothershead comes into the hall, also curtseying madly. She

is followed by the elegantly dressed woman, who is followed

in turn by two footmen. They walk regally down the hall.

CUT TO COMMITTEE ROOM

Carr Gomm checks his watch. The door to the room begins to

open. He smiles.

The two footmen enter the room.

The elegantly dressed woman enters. Everyone rises.

Alix seats herself.

Broadneck seems very unnerved.

Carr Gomm raises his hand. The other members, puzzled, look

at Broadneck.

Quite red in the face, Broadneck looks at Carr Gomm, then to

Treves, then to the Princess. He seems to almost deflate,

then slowly raises his hand. The other members, now thoroughly

confused, raise their hands as well. Carr Gomm bangs his

gavel, smiling broadly. Treves is almost beside himself with

happiness, and the Princess is obviously very pleased.

Broadneck, humiliated, cannot look at anyone.

MERRICK'S ROOM

Merrick is working on his cathedral. It is almost finished.

He is detailing the spire, carefully painting in the

stonework. There is a knock at the door.

Treves enters carrying a wrapped parcel, followed by Carr

Gomm, and Mothershead.

Treves defers to Carr Gomm.

Merrick is speechless. He just looks from Treves to Carr

Gomm to Mothershead.

Merrick finds it very difficult to speak.

Merrick looks about him at his rooms. It's beginning to dawn

on him that this is indeed his, that at last he has a real

home, a place of his own.

Treves hands Merrick the package. Merrick carefully pulls

off the wrapping paper. Treves smiles. It's the dressing

bag. Merrick is overjoyed with the gift. He lovingly handles

the articles, taking them in and out of their compartments

opening and closing the bag.

NIGHT TIME SKY

Clouds billowing, moving swiftly.

MERRICK'S ROOM

Merrick is alone, wearing his cloak and standing by the table,

cradling the dressing bag. He takes each article out of the

bag and lays it carefully on the table, all in very neat

order. He stares at the elegant objects, then rearranges

them.

Merrick picks up the toothbrush, examining it with a sort of

reverence. He does the same with the ivory-handled razors

and the comb.

THE PEACOCK - WHITECHAPEL

There's a good crowd in tonight; lots of drinking and shouting

and glasses breaking. Several of the neighborhood "working

girls" are having a bit of a rest, looking for a laugh. The

Night Porter is rounding up customers, his pockets ringing

with coins. People have their hands raised urging the Night

Porter to take them along to see The Elephant Man. The Night

Porter goes to a table where a MAN sits with two of the girls.

The others all moan their disappointment.

Bytes, sitting at his usual place at the bar, sees that

tonight is his chance.

The Night Porter rounds up his "customers", all twelve of

them. Bytes saunters over to the Night Porter.

Bytes drops several coins in the Night Porter's hand.

The whole group happily leaves the pub, several still holding

their gin bottles. The Ladies are rather unsteady on their

feet. As they all leave, the Night Porter says:

MERRICK'S ROOM

(Merrick as before) he reaches over to the picture of Mrs.

Kendal and picks it up. We see his face reflected in the

glass. Merrick sets the picture down on the table. He takes

up one of the silver brushes and, using the picture as a

mirror, neatly brushes his hair over his monstrous skull. He

lays the brush down in its specific spot.

Merrick takes his ring and puts it on his left hand. He opens

the cigarette case and stuffs one into his right hand. He

takes up his walking stick, breathes deeply, then walks around

the room in a slow circle. Merrick is transforming himself.

Merrick comes back to the table and examines his reflection

in the picture. With the ring, the stick, the cigarette and

his neatly brushed hair, Merrick is the very image of a

dashing young man about town. He inclines his head to the

picture.

At this moment the door bursts open. The Night Porter stands

grinning.

Merrick is frozen, caught. Seeing Merrick in his outfit, the

Night Porter's jaw drops. They both stare at each other. The

Night Porter begins to laugh hysterically. Merrick frantically

begins to put away his dressing bag articles. When Merrick

starts taking off his ring, the Night Porter comes over to

him and grabs him by the cloak.

The Night Porter drags him by the neck to the window. He

throws the window open out in the square is the waiting

audience.

He strips off Merrick's cloak. The audience gasps. A few

people who have been before laugh and clap.

He starts kissing each whore. The crowd is mesmerized. Bytes

moves in behind the Man with the Whores.

The Man begins to laugh. The Whores laugh drunkenly and

halfheartedly resist being taken in to see The Elephant Man.

As they are pushed through the door,

The Whores reluctantly enter the room. The Night Porter laughs

at their discomfort. The Man notices all of Merrick's pictures

of women.

He lets one of the whores go and grabs the other one from

behind at the wrists.

The Night Porter has turned Merrick and is holding him for

the approaching kiss. The crowd is egging them on. The man

forces the Woman closer and closer and raises her arms to

force her into an embrace. As Merrick and the Woman touch,

being pressed together, the Woman begins to scream. The Night

Porter, the Man and the crowd all laugh with glee. Merrick

and the whore now have their faces pressed together. The

Whore is screaming and Merrick is crying out and screaming

too.

Merrick and the Whore are pushed onto Merrick's bed. The

Night Porter grabs the other Whore now. She begins screaming

wildly.

He pushes the screaming Whore down onto Merrick. Her screaming

face goes right into his. Merrick tries to move away and as

he does his head goes too far back and his cried turn to

horrible wheezing.

The crowd outside is trying to see in the window. Five or

six more have gone into Merrick's room to see. All are

laughing and screaming and trying to get a close look at The

Elephant Man.

Merrick recognizes his voice and looks frantically around

for his former owner. The Night Porter pulls Merrick up by

the window again. He then begins pushing the crowd out the

door.

Suddenly one of the crowd outside reaches up and grabs

Merrick's good hand and pulls him half out the window. Others

follow suit and haul him all the way through. The cathedral

falls to the floor, breaking into several pieces.

Because of the horror of touching him, the crowd outside

lets Merrick fall to the ground.

The Night Porter whirls around and sees that Merrick is gone.

He pushes the rest of the people outside and quickly goes to

Merrick, lifting him to his feet.

Unseen by anyone, Bytes slips into Merrick's room. Merrick

is now standing.

The crowd moves in. The Night Porter is enjoying the

festivities, but looks around nervously for trouble.

The Man grabs Merrick and pours some gin into his mouth,

then pushes him away.

He's caught by another man, fed liquor and pushed away. He's

pushed now from person to person faster and faster. Finally

Merrick falls to the ground, dizzy and a bottle of gin on

Merrick's head. He coughs and moans through the wheezing.

The crowd is now strangely silent circling The Elephant Man

like a pack of dogs closing in on a terrified rabbit. Suddenly

Merrick starts to wail. The crowd joins in and they hoist

him above their heads, screaming with laughter, around and

around, joining him all the while.

Now we see a window reflecting the scene of terror. A curtain

is pulled aside and we see through the reflection the face

of the Young Porter, watching everything.

Merrick is lowered down into the crowd. it parts and the

Night Porter emerges walking Merrick toward us to his room.

The crowd moves through the iron gate of Bedstead Square. In

the background we see Bytes' boy sitting on top of a wagon.

The Night Porter takes Merrick into his room and puts him on

the bed. He drunkenly stumbles about trying to out the room

in order. He places the smashed hulk of the cathedral back

up on its table, inadvertently leaving the spire and a few

columns on the floor. He picks the cloak up and replaces it

on the peg.

He takes a purse full of coins out of his pocket. He removes

one small coin and flips it on the floor in front of Merrick.

The Night Porter turns and leaves.

Merrick, alone now, hears the Night Porter's echoing footsteps

and the distant sound of the gate being closed. There is a

long silence as Merrick collects himself. He then leans back

into his pillows with a deep sigh. His eyes close.

Merrick's eyes flash open. We see Bytes coming toward him.

Bytes lifts Merrick up off the bed. He reaches out for

Merrick's cloak. We slowly PAN over all the smiling women's

faces as we hear the following:

Rustling sound. We now glide slowly on to Merrick's Mother's

picture.

Merrick's good hand comes into the frame trying to reach his

mother's picture.

He grabs at the table cloth and pulls.

Now we see Bytes gripping Merrick's arm and pulling. We see

the picture fall to the ground with a THUD.

In the sky the heavy clouds are moving.

MERRICK'S ROOM (MORNING)

Morning sunlight on the floor of Merrick's room. We move

slowly around, discovering the church spire, the columns,

the penny and Merrick's mother's picture.

Over this, the sound of knocking on the door. Through the

door, we hear Treves calling, "John?... John?" More knocking.

The door opens.

Treves surveys the empty room. Quickly he goes into the side

bathroom. He comes out with a very worried face. He goes to

the cathedral model and is horrified by its condition. He

finds the spire and then Merrick's Mother's picture. He

quickly leaves the room and walks down the hall. The Young

Porter, waiting in the hall, approaches Treves and stops

him.

Now we see Mrs. Mothershead entering Merrick's room surveying

the same scene.

Her face hardens as she sees the picture of Merrick's Mother.

Now we see Treves filled with anger. He's got the information

from the Young Porter and bolts down the hall at full speed.

Mothershead, still in Merrick's room, now become activated

with determination to get to the bottom of all this herself.

She leaves the room. In the distance is Treves marching off.

Closer to her is the Young Porter, looking worried. She calls

him to her.

CLOSE-UP of Treves angrily walking.

Mothershead leaves the Young Porter, furiously marching off

in the same direction as Treves.

OPERATING THEATRE

The Night Porter is adding fresh coal to the operating room

stove. The old coals were still quite hot and now smoke begins

to rise. The Night Porter takes up the bellows and begins to

pump the coals into a blaze.

The door bangs open and Treves is there, standing stock still,

in a cold murderous rage.

The Night Porter, frightened by Treves' intensity, begins to

sputter.

Treves stalks over to him.

Treves takes the Night Porter by the arm and begins to drag

him out. The Night Porter throws his hand off violently,

whirls around, his back to the door, and seizes the poker

from the stove.

Treves, blind with fury, tears the poker from the Night

Porter's hand, and is on the verge of using it. Unbeknownst

to them, Mothershead has storm into the room, just in time

to hear the last of the Night Porter's speech. Without a

break, she strides over to him and with a lightning movement,

boxes him soundly on the ears. The blow is staggering and

makes quite a formidable sound. The Night Porter falls to

the floor, barely conscious.

OUTSIDE THE SHOP (DAY)

Treves is standing in the street looking at the now bare

shop front. He walks to the window and tries to clean a small

circle in the glass. He peers in.

From inside, through the smeared dirty window, we see Treves'

distorted face.

INSIDE A WAGON

A moving circle of light in blackness.

As we move closer to the light, it becomes distinguishable

as a peephole in the side of a wagon. Through the peephole

we see a dark overcast sky. It is dusk. We move even closer

to the hole. Just beside it we see the head of a horse with

blinders on moving alongside. We move closer still to see

its rider, a policeman. He notices the peephole and leans

forward in the saddle, looking in.

From outside, we see the peephole and an eye gazing out. The

eye is replaced by a plug.

The policeman starts back and pulls up on the reins. As he

falls behind we see the portrait of the E.M., from the front

of the shop in London, on the back of the wagon. The policeman

looks at the poster. The wagon moves on out of frame and the

policeman slows his horse to a stop.

The wagon is being driven by Bytes. The boy sits beside him.

Another policeman rides abreast of him. They ride a few yards

more and then the policeman stops by a sign at the fork of

the road, reading "AALST 30 km". "Brussells 80 km." The

policeman gestures for Bytes to move on. The wagon continues

down the road.

Bytes and the boy are riding along the road. Bytes turns in

his seat and opens a hatch in the roof. He looks down in.

Inside the wagon, lit by the last dregs of the sunset, is

Merrick, huddled in his sleeping posture. He feels the light

and looks up weakly, wheezing, obviously very sick. A small

bowl of potatoes sets untouched beside him.

He snaps the hatch shut and turns forward muttering to

himself.

FIELD & ROAD (MORNING)

We see a field with a road in the distance, leading to it.

It is misty, the sun barely peeking through the rolling clouds

above. On the road, the wagon is plodding toward us. At the

bottom of the frame a FEMALE PINHEAD in a dress comes into

view. She is watching the wagon. A DWARF comes into view

beside her. She points to the wagon and she and the Dwarf

excitedly confer. They turn back to watch its progress and

the Dwarf reaches up and takes the Pinhead's hand.

We move back slowly to reveal a ring of circus wagons in the

field.

ANOTHER DWARF comes up to the two other Freaks and watches

the wagon. We pull back further to see a small circus. There

are little stalls, and cages containing two mangey lions,

some screeching spider monkeys and some squawking parrots.

The circus is abustle in the drab grey field.

CLOSE-UP of the Pinhead jumping up and down in her excitement.

There is a clap of thunder.

A rainstorm over the freak show. We pass along the row of

freak wagons.

These freaks truly deserve the name. They are quite different

from the rather domestic ones we saw in the circus in England.

These are not fakes. A rope cordons us off from them.

The audience, which we see all around us, is enjoying the

freaks, but there is a sense of vulgarity in their gaiety.

They seem hard, and cold and jaded.

We move by pinheads, a Hermaphrodite and a Legless Wonder.

Some Siamese Twins are playing cat's cradle. Past them runs

a Dwarf with a plumed hat playing a small flute. Trailing

behind him on a string is a small wooden ark on wheels.

A lionfaced man is combing the hair that covers his face. A

Rubber Man pulls the skin of his neck up over his face. There

is a fairly big crowd standing around a Tall Man,

affectionately rubbing the Small Parasitic Twin, growing out

of his chest. The Barker-Owners compete with each other and

the occasional thunder.

Finally we hear the patter of Bytes, telling of the horrible

fate of John Merrick's Mother on that African Isle so many

years ago. A very big crowd is listening to him. They are

looking at the poster at the back of the wagon, waiting

impatiently to see the Elephant Man.

He raps twice with Merrick's silver-tipped walking stick and

pulls the poster up. Merrick is standing unsteadily in the

wagon. He is quite sick. The audience gasps and shudders. A

few shrieks are heard. The Elephant Man is always the Elephant

Man.

Merrick slowly turns around, the audience gasping at the

sight of the horrible tumors. Bytes raps the walking stick

twice.

Merrick begins a series of awkward movements, his pained

version of a dance.

Without his walking stick it is very difficult for him, but

he strives to do it. Some of the crowd laughs at this, others

shudder at the strange sight.

Suddenly Merrick falters and comes to a stop, breathing

irregularly. Seeing this, Bytes goes to him and bringing the

stick behind Merrick, out of view of the audience, jabs him

savagely in the back.

Merrick groans with pain and some of the people in the first

row flinch back.

Merrick begins to dance again as people throw coins onto the

stage, which the boy gathers and puts into a cap.

THE BACK OF THE WAGON - DAY

The poster is rolled up, Merrick on the floor of the wagon

wheezing horribly.

Beside him on the floor is a bowl of what looks to be slop

and potatoes.

Bytes is standing at the back of the wagon looking down at

Merrick. He picks up the bowl and jabs it at Merrick.

Merrick looks wearily at the bowl but makes no move to accept

it.

Merrick closes his eyes. This really enrages Bytes.

He jabs the bowl at Merrick, almost as if he'd shove it down

his throat.

At this last word he throws the contents of the bowl

splattering in Merrick's face. He stands for a moment looking

down at Merrick who has lapsed into a coughing fit.

SIDE OF THE WAGON - DAY

There is a small crowd gathered in a circle on the grass.

Merrick stands amidst them on a small wooden stool, Bytes

jabbing him from behind again.

Merrick is making a strange moaning cry, slightly reminiscent

of the trumpet of an elephant. The boy is passing amongst

the people with a cap, collecting coins. Merrick lifts his

face to the sky, the sound of his own misery mingling with

his elephant call.

SMALL CIRCUS - NIGHT

We see the poster of the Elephant Man. Bytes stands before

it saying the last of the patter.

He raps twice with the walking stick and pulls the poster

up.

Merrick is now extremely sick. He almost looks as if he is

unable to stand.

The audience, as always, is quite alarmed. Bytes smiles and

comes forward.

Merrick looks incapable of even this simple movement, but he

slowly manages to turn. The crowd reacts to the horrible

condition of Merrick's back and head.

Bytes satisfied that the Elephant Man is having the proper

effect, raps the walking stick again.

Merrick's eyes look painfully up to the heavens and he begins

to shuffle clumsily about the platform. Without his stick

this is very difficult for him, causing him great pain. It

is a humiliating spectacle and the crowd unimpressed by the

halting movements of the monster begins to heckle him.

Bytes seeing that the dancing isn't being received well moves

to place a stool next to Merrick.

Merrick, already exhausted by his little dance, wheezes and

coughs, attempting to ascend the stool. It is useless, he is

just too tired. Again the audience shouts its disapproval,

booing and hissing the Elephant Man. Bytes curses and raps

again, demanding obedience from Merrick who again bravely

tries to mount the stool. He cannot do it!

Bytes, striving to save the moment and please the angry crowd,

goes to Merrick and roughly helps him up. Merrick teeters

precariously on the stool. Bytes raps the stick.

Merrick hesitates and Bytes bangs the stick on the wagon.

The audience quiets down to hear the elephant call. Merrick

senses this lull, but he is very frightened and sick. He

lifts his head wearily and makes a few wavering cries that

sound very little like an elephant.

Merrick tries again but there is no improvement. The crowd

begins to jeer at

Merrick, exhorting him to make the call of the elephant.

Merrick is now almost swaying on the stool. He attempts to

step down, but as he does it finally becomes too much for

him and he collapses into a heap on the wagon floor. The

crowd is no longer in the least bit challenged by this piteous

mess and they break out into a vocal fury, throwing objects

at the wagon.

Bytes is humiliated at first, and then is quickly angry. He

turns to Merrick.

But Merrick just lays there moaning and wheezing irregularly.

He jabs Merrick a few times with the silver-tipped walking-

stick. The crowd jeers even louder still. There is a clap of

thunder.

SMALL CIRCLE OF WAGONS (NIGHT)

Bytes is seated by a campfire drinking from a bottle of wine.

He is very drunk. From the wagon behind him we can hear

Merrick coughing and wheezing.

We also hear the boy, almost pleading with Merrick to stop

coughing and to try to eat. As Bytes listens he gets angrier

and angrier. Finally he rises clumsily to his feet and

stumbles over to the back of the wagon.

The boy is crouched over Merrick, who looks little better

than a corpse.

Bytes points a menacing finger at Merrick.

He reaches in and grabs Merrick roughly by his arm, dragging

him out of the wagon.

He drags Merrick across the way to a small monkey wagon. The

boy follows, his face filled with sympathy for Merrick. Bytes

opens the cage door and stuffs Merrick in as the monkeys

scream.

He slams the door and latches it. Then he quickly turns,

still in his rage, and starts for the wagon. As he passes

the boy, the boy tries to stop him.

Bytes knocks the boy down with the back of his hand. He stalks

to his wagon and climbs inside. After some muffled sound,

Merrick's food bowl comes flying out. There are more muffled

sounds as Merrick's stick, cloak and hood are also thrown

out one by one.

The boy looks to Merrick who is in a panic trying to keep

himself away from the monkeys who scream loudly in all the

excitement. We hear Bytes, cursing to himself, in the wagon.

The boy, frightened, goes to the fire and pulls a blanket

around him.

Merrick crawls to one corner of the cage away from the

screaming monkeys.

Suddenly one of the braver ones leaps at Merrick with a

scream, biting him on the arm, and moving quickly away.

Merrick yelps with pain and struggles to move away. The other

monkeys have gotten the idea now and they begin to move warily

toward Merrick, screeching threateningly. Another leaps out

and clings to Merrick's shoulder, biting and scratching

furiously then he too jumps away.

Merrick cries out.

Now the monkeys are getting braver and more and more of them

lash out at Merrick with their paws. They jump onto him with

savage screams, biting him on the head and neck and shoulders.

Merrick's eyes search for escape. The monkeys come on and on

without a break, screaming madly all the while.

With his good hand Merrick begins to pull himself up with

the aid of a bar.

The monkeys strive to pull him down. Merrick looks through

the bars at the wagon and screams frantically.

But Bytes won't come. Something is happening inside Merrick.

A wave of feeling is growing, coming from a place in him

very deep down and far away.

This feeling seems to give him strength and he is able to

pull himself all the way up in spite of the hairy moving

mass that now seems to cling to every part of his body.

The feeling is surging up inside Merrick making his body

shake uncontrollably as if he were a volcano about to erupt.

The monkeys keep on biting and screeching, pulling at him.

Suddenly a formidable cry rings out of Merrick's mouth, with

a power and assurance we have never heard from him before.

He whirls about and cries out again a shattering "No", the

force of which scatters most of the monkeys away from him

onto the cage floor, dumbfounded.

Merrick grabs a monkey who has managed to hang and throws it

into the group of monkeys on the floor.

The monkeys have been shocked into silence, pushed into the

other end of the cage. Merrick, perhaps as surprised as the

monkeys, rests against the bars of the cage. The monkeys

make no move toward him. They sit across the cage from Merrick

silently watching him with fear.

THE SILENT FACES OF THE MONKEYS

We now see Merrick crouched in a corner of the cage in his

sleeping position.

We see the monkeys again, and hear whispering in the still

night. CU of merrick's head resting on his knees. The

whispering continues and a shadow falls across Merrick.

Merrick begins to stir, his head comes up, and he looks

around. The whispering stops.

We pull back to see some of the freaks from the circus

gathered around the monkey cage in a small group. They are:

2 pinheads (male and female), the dwarf we saw earlier with

the plumed hat and the ark on a string, another male dwarf,

a female midget, a lion-faced man, and an armless wonder.

The female pinhead reaches into the cage and pats Merrick's

head.

He looks to the lion-faced man and speaks to him in a foreign

tongue. The lion-faced man unlatches the cage door. Then,

after further instruction, from the plumed dwarf, the freaks

gently help Merrick out of the cage, closing the door behind

him. The dwarf speaks to the others again and the lion-faced

man and the armless wonder move to each side of Merrick. The

lion-faced man pulls Merrick's right arm over his shoulder.

Merrick puts his left arm around the armless wonder.

He and the other dwarf light two lanterns and they begin to

move off.

The boy by the wagon has awakened. He sees the small caravan

of freaks moving in the darkness, the light from the lanterns

bobbing over the grass. His first instinct is to call for

Bytes, which he almost does, but then he thinks better of

it. He rises and goes to where Bytes threw Merrick's stick

and disguise.

He nicks them up and goes to the small band of strangely

shaped beings. They stop and watch him warily.

Merrick looks the boy in the eye, and the boy holds his gaze.

The small band moves away through the wagons. The boy watches

the lantern light receding in the darkness. He turns and

looks to the wagon, the poster of the Elephant Man, and the

dying fire. He moves to the fire quickly collecting a few

blankets and belongings. Then taking one last look at the

garish poster just visible in the night, he runs off into

the darkness.

WOODS - NIGHT

We see the beams of the lanterns moving through the trees

like will-o-the-wisps.

They help Merrick along, the plumed Dwarf directing them

from time to time. As they move along we see them pass a

small still pond.

DIRT ROAD - NIGHT

The intrepid freaks approach a bend in the road. They go

around the corner and before them stands a small train

station, a train sitting amongst the steam by a platform.

The freaks stop just outside the light of the station and

the plumed Dwarf's instruction get Merrick into his disguise.

The female pinhead, who has carried his stick, hands it to

Merrick, squeezing his hand.

The plumed Dwarf relays the message and the freaks respond

to Merrick in their language.

He turns and confers with the freaks who all rifle through

their pockets and produce some coins. Then he and Merrick

walk into the station, the freaks watching and waving.

ON THE PLATFORM

The train is about to leave. At a barrier two ticket

collectors are taking tickets of a few last-minute passengers,

who hurry off.

The Plumed Dwarf and Merrick appear and walk to the barrier.

The Plumed Dwarf hands over the ticket.

They walk off down the platform. The collectors stare after

them.

The Plumed Dwarf, his arm around Merrick, is helping him

down the platform, as fast as possible, his ark trailing

behind him. As they pass the windows of the first-class

carriages, we see the ornate interiors and the happy, handsome

people on their plush seats.

The Plumed Dwarf finds an empty compartment and opens the

door.

He looks down the platform. The Ticket Collectors are watching

them with great interest.

Merrick climbs laboriously aboard.

The other people on board see Merrick, react, and move away

from him as far as they can in the cramped, 3rd class

carriage.

The Plumed Dwarf notices this and sniffs at the people with

contempt.

He grins. The whistle blows and the train slowly begins to

move off. The Plumed Dwarf still holding the door open, walks

along with it.

Merrick nods "yes", and holds out his hand. The train is

moving a little faster. The Plumed Dwarf grabs his hand and

they shake.

He shuts the door. As the carriage passes, Merrick's mask is

pressed up against the window. The Plumed Dwarf waves to him

as the train moves away.

He looks at the train for a moment, then walks back down the

platform.

THIRD CLASS CARRIAGE - INTERIOR

Merrick is in the corner, facing into the carriage. He looks

slowly around.

The other passengers have moved away, forming almost a moat

of space around him. We see the whole carriage now; the

cowering people and Merrick at the far end. Seeing their

silent, horrified stares, he moves to the opposite seat,

facing the back wall. Merrick looks around for a moment,

then sees his reflection in the window. He stares at himself.

THIRD CLASS CARRIAGE

The carriage is dark now, and empty except for Merrick. He

looks out the window at a sign above a station platform that

says "Oostende", and at the few people still walking about.

OOSTENDE STATION PLATFORM (NIGHT)

We see the side of the carriage. Merrick, inside the darkened

car, is not visible. A CONDUCTOR walks to the end of the

carriage and turns a valve. He opens the door to Merrick's

compartment.

Merrick is motionless, reluctant to leave the security of

the darkness.

Merrick pulls his walking stick from the darkness and plants

it firmly on the floor with a loud THUD. The Conductor,

expecting violence, draws back. A few people on the platform,

who have stopped to watch this exchange, gasp.

Merrick rises with the help of his stick, and slowly descends

from the carriage watched very carefully by the others. He

looks around for a moment, then walks off down the platform.

TWO YOUNG TOUGHS follow a little distance behind him, laughing

and mimicking his uneven gait.

OOSTENDE QUAY (NIGHT)

We see a short line of people waiting to board a cross-channel

steamer. The First-Mate is standing by the gangplank, smiling

at the women passengers and making the most of his handsome

face and crisp white uniform. He surveys the line, stops and

smiles even more broadly. A very pretty Young Woman at the

end of the line is smiling back.

We see the end of the quay disappearing into darkness towards

the station.

The rhythmic sound of Merrick's stick is heard as he slowly

moves into the light.

The Woman, still smiling at the First-Mate, demurely lowers

her eyes. Merrick appears behind her, breathing heavily from

the long walk. The woman's face freezes. She turns her head,

ever so slightly, and sees Merrick. Her face drops.

The First-Mate sees the Woman change, then sees Merrick. He

walks out of frame. Merrick is still trying to catch his

breath as the First-Mate walks up. The Woman looks up at the

First-Mate imploringly.

Merrick, confused at first, produces his ticket from his

cloak. The First-Mate examines it and hands it back.

Merrick remains motionless.

He points down the quay. Merrick turns and walks away. The

Woman smiles gratefully at the Fist-Mate, who tips his hat.

A WAREHOUSE PIER

TWO DRUNKS are sitting against the wall, drinking and singing.

One of them gets up and walks out of frame.

Merrick peeks around a corner at the Drunk. They stare at

each other for a long moment. Merrick disappears. The other

Drunk comes back, sits down, and they both start singing

again.

Merrick is in darkness, seated around the corner, tapping

his left hand against his leg, keeping in time with the

drunken music.

OOSTENDE QUAY (MORNING)

We see Merrick behind some crates, watching the ship. On the

wharf a different First-Mate waits until the last of the

morning passengers board the ship. He then nods to the Ticket

Taker and ascends the gangplank, nodding to a crew man. On

board, everyone prepares to get underway.

Merrick pitches forward from behind the crates, half running,

half stumbling toward the Ticket Taker. The Ticket Taker,

about to board the ship, drops the tickets on the ground and

stoops to pick them up. As he collects the scattered tickets

a hand comes into frame holding a ticket out to him. He

reaches for it, and calls over his shoulder to the crewman

at the plank.

He turns back and finally takes a look at the late arrival.

His mouth drops. Merrick hurries past him. The crewman now

also sees the passenger as he begins his clumsy ascent of

the gangplank. The shrill ship's whistle blows.

ON BOARD

Merrick is crouched in a dark corner underneath a stairway,

his head resting on the points of both knees, his arms clasped

around them. He is asleep. A few drops of rain fall and hit

his cap, then a few more and finally it begins to rain. He

wakes up and looks around. He hears a voice.

Through the stairs we see a young couple in the rain at the

railing, arm in arm. The Young Woman points. The Young Man

turns to her and smiles.

They laugh and hug each other and run inside out of the rain.

Merrick's hand comes into the shot, grasping a stair and

pulling himself up slowly. He rounds the stairs and walks

onto the deck looking after the young couple.

Merrick walks to the railing and leans over it, oblivious of

the rain. We see the cliffs of Dover.

DOCKSIDE - DOVER

The ship's gangplank leading down to a sea of umbrellas.

Passengers one by one come down the plank and are swallowed

by the crowd. On the dock amidst the umbrellas, we see

Merrick. He looks around, then moves off into the crowd. The

crowd moves past a sign saying, "To The Trains".

LONDON TRAIN - INTERIOR

Through a rain-streaked window we see rolling green

countryside. We pull back to see an Elderly Man in a heavy

black overcoat with a wide-brimmed rain hat eating an apple.

Beside him his wife knits.

A few other people similarly clothed are sleeping. We PAN

across them to see Merrick at the back of the car watching

the Elderly Man eat.

LONDON TRAIN - EXTERIOR

The last car speeds down the track and disappears.

LIVERPOOL STREET STATION

Grey light filters through the windows in the high canopy

ceiling over the trains in the station. The platforms below

fill with people as trains arrive and depart. We now see the

station with its newsstands, sweetstalls, shoeshiners, and

passengers moving to and fro, carrying luggage and looking

for their train.

A YOUNG BOY is seated on a pile of baggage looking very adult

and bored. His MOTHER stands beside him, though we see only

a portion of her billowy skirt.

We hear her voice in rapid conversation with another Woman.

The Young Boy scans the crowd looking for excitement. He

sees something.

The Elderly Man we saw on the train and his wife are moving

past the barrier.

The Young Boy slowly pulls a peashooter from a pocket, puts

a pea in his mouth, and raises the pipe to his lips. His

Mother's hand shoots out and grabs it.

She continues her conversation. The Boy looks sour. Merrick

is moving past the barrier. He stops to look around and plan

his next move. The Boy sees him. He tugs on his Mother's

skirt.

Merrick still looking around, suddenly turns in Little Jim's

direction. He sees the Boy tugging at his Mother's skirt and

pointing at him.

He turns and walks in the opposite direction along a wall

stacked with trunks and luggage, trying as best as he can to

blend in. Little Jim gets up and moves after him.

Merrick continues along the wall. A few people give him a

second look, but pass on. Little Jim comes up alongside him.

Merrick turns and looks at Little Jim. He looks quickly

around. We see, across the station, an open archway leading

out into a street. Merrick moves away from Little Jim out of

frame. Little Jim watches him go.

Two other BOYS join Little Jim. The three of them watch the

escaping Merrick, then move off after him. Merrick is

frantically trying to make it to the archway. The three boys

appear behind him and call out.

One of the boys reaches down and snatches the hem of Merrick's

cloak. He lifts it, trying to catch a glimpse of the

mysterious stranger. Merrick pulls away and tries to go

faster. Relishing the hunt, the boys follow him, taunting

him all the way. As they approach the arch, Little Jim,

determined now, steps in front of him cutting him off.

Merrick comes to an abrupt standstill, shrinking from the

boy. Little Jim reaches up to the hood and grasps it firmly.

He lifts the hood and then staggers back onto the floor in a

spasm of fear.

He lets out a shrill scream. Merrick turns wildly away,

looking for another escape. Little Jim's Mother, hearing her

son's cries, looks up immediately.

She sees Merrick and the howling boy in the middle of the

station.

Merrick, hearing this, looks in her direction and whirls

away. He stumbles toward another archway exit. People, hearing

the noise, watch him go. He knocks down a little girl in his

flight and she, too, starts screaming.

Through the archway comes a bobby. Jim's Mother, now with

her son, calls to him.

Merrick stops at the sight of the bobby. The bobby at the

arch, now aware of the commotion, sees Merrick and walks

quickly towards him.

Merrick changes course, but, a group of men, alerted by Jim's

mother's screams, move forward together, cutting him off.

They yell at him angrily.

One of them darts toward him and grabs a hold of Merrick's

hood. Merrick turns frantically away and as he does, the

hood is pulled off him. The crowd shouts at him as he goes,

following him in wary pursuit. He moves back past the children

and Jim's Mother. They all scream and shield themselves from

his approach. Another group of people move toward him blocking

all escape.

Behind him, he sees a door to a urinal. He moves through it

followed by the crowd. We hear fearsome echoes inside.

Inside the urinal, the crowd presses Merrick toward a wall.

They have become angry now. They shout and there is fear in

their voices. They hem Merrick in. He looks around hoping

for an opening. There is none.

He gives a strangled cry and collapses as the bobby pushes

his way through the crowd.

Merrick puts his good hand over his good ear trying to block

out the screams of the crowd.

EXAMINING ROOM - LONDON HOSPITAL

A small room off the Receiving Room. In the center of the

room is a low sofa covered with deeply stained, shiny black

leather. On it lies a man, groaning softly. Treves is helping

a Dresser bandage the man's leg.

Mrs. Mothershead appears at the doorway.

The bobby from the Liverpool Street Station enters.

The card changes hands.

THE URINAL

Treves enters and pushes through the crowd. He sees Merrick

in a heap on the floor. The SERGEANT gets up to meet him in

the middle of the room, but Treves keeps walking toward

Merrick.

Treves goes to Merrick who, just coming to, reaches out to

him with his good hand. Treves pulls him up, his eyes brimming

with tears. Merrick, too, is weeping. Treves embraces him.

HALLWAY

Treves, Carr Gomm and Mrs. Kendal are walking down a hallway

engaged in conversation.

MERRICK'S ROOM - MORNING

Merrick stands before the row of smiling ladies on his wall.

He surveys them lovingly for a long moment. He is holding in

his hand a bundle of evening clothes, the handsome black bow

tie lying on the new silk shirt.

He stands for a moment, reluctant to leave their company. He

goes to his bed placing the clothes upon it, and then to the

cathedral. He compares it with St. Phillips outside. He picks

up the main spire and gazes at it, but his mind is somewhere

else.

THEATRE ROYAL - DRURY LANE

We see the whole theatre. It is very ornate. The orchestra

is tuning up and the house is filled with elegant, well

dressed, handsome people all happily chatting and calling to

one another. We see young men and women flirting boldly and

generally enjoying each other's company. In the Royal Box

Mothershead and Nora in evening gowns sit up front relishing

the spectacle.

In the back of the box John sits between Treves and the

Princess. He is dressed in his evening clothes, his cloak

tied over his shoulders like a cape, but he does not wear

his hood.

The Princess is explaining to Merrick the workings of a pair

of opera glasses.

He takes them and delightedly spies about the theatre.

John is breathless as the house lights dim and the curtain

rises. Enter chorus.

Treves smiling at John. He exchanges knowing smiles with the

Princess. John watches with the unconstrained delight of a

child; but his rapture is even more intense and solemn. His

attitude is one of wonder and awe, and he often leans forward,

panting in his excitement. To John the characters are not

actors in make-up and costume, but real people.

Mrs. Kendal and an actor dressed as royalty doing the last

scene of Henry the Fifth.

During the above, Merrick mouths the Kings lines.

The Royal Box, the Princess and the two friends enjoying the

show.

THE STAGE

The chorus steps out to give the epilogue.

During the above, the CAMERA moves in on John.

Amidst great applause the curtain rings down. Through the

curtain comes Mrs. Kendal to renewed applause. She motions

the audience to quiet down.

She gestures toward the Royal Box. There is modest applause

as the audience rises and turns toward it. Merrick cannot be

seen in the shadows, and the crowd cranes their necks trying

to get a glimpse of him. We hear whispers of "Oh look! It's

the Elephant Man! The Elephant Man!' run through the audience.

Treves turns to John.

Merrick rises and comes forward to thunderous applause. The

audience begins to rise and they clap their hands even louder.

Merrick is overcome by the applause. Tears run down his

cheeks. Treves, Nora, Mothershead and the Princess, filled

with pride, beam at John.

MERRICK'S ROOM

Merrick, in a night-shirt, is seated at his table working on

his cathedral.

Treves is nearby.

Merrick closes his eyes and his head tilts forward slightly.

It seems unbearably large: too large for him to support.

He turns and starts out the door.

Treves comes back to Merrick.

The two look at each other silently.

Merrick rises and goes with Treves to the door.

Treves smiles at John then walks down the darkened hallway.

Merrick watches him for a moment, then slowly shuts the door.

We hear the distant echo of Treves footsteps. Merrick goes

back to examine his cathedral, looking at it from different

angles. He picks up a fine brush, dipping it into the paint,

and makes a few final brush strokes.

He moves back into the middle of the room and gazes at it

for a long time. He lowers the brush to his side.

The cathedral is a masterwork of detail and shading, as if

it were St. Philips itself shrunk to a miniature. He goes to

the table, dips the brush into the paint and carefully signs

his name at the base of the main spire.

He sighs deeply, lays the brush down on the table and pushes

the model towards the window. The movement causes him pain.

He puts his left hand up and feels the back of his head.

Merrick turns out the lamp and goes to his bed. He looks at

the cathedral again, then around at his room. We see in the

dim light his books, his gallery of smiling women, his

dressing bag, his cloak and hood, and finally his mother's

picture on the table. A slight breeze billows the curtains.

We move in very close to them.

High altitude... roiling clouds with lightning flashes and

low thunder. The sky is in turmoil.

Lightning flash... thunder roll. The clouds are mingling and

scattering.

The clouds erupt, pushed onward and onward... they slowly

begin to calm as... they turn slowly into... elephants linked

trunk to tail moving slowly away from us...

The elephants are calmer than the skies we saw... they keep

moving onward and onward...

A lacy curtain has taken the place of the sky. The elephants

seem to be moving on it... into the distance.

Knock, knock sound. The curtain moves to one side wiping the

elephants away with it. There is no terrified audience behind

the curtain. There is only light and Merrick's Mother smiling

a calm and benign smile.

The light grows brighter and brighter until we cannot see

John's Mother anymore. It almost blinds us.

