INT. CAVE NIGHT

There is a huge ancient hourglass made of animal skins, and

acorns plop through the waist of the hourglass one by one.

It sits in a pool of water. In the water swim EYELESS CATFISH

in geometric patterns. An underground stream feeds the pool

of water and then flows into a huge underground crevasse

that on occasion emits a LOW RUMBLE.

INDIANS with torches surround the hourglass, which now we

can see is in a cave. And as soon as the acorns have finished

passing through the hourglass, a crew of Indians turn it on

its opposite end. One of the Indians appears to be JAPANESE.

ONE INDIAN stands at the wall of the cavern in front of a

series of symbolic carvings and scratches, with stone in

hand he makes a few hatchmarks, and keeps an eye on the

CREVASSE.

THE CREVASSE RUMBLES once more, loosening a few chunks of

rock from the cave.

The earth begins to shake.

View of the chartkeeper's drawings. One is of a crane with a

very long neck. Another is a primitive drawing of a naked

girl, who has long flowing hair. She also has, pointed out

from her sides, thumbs that are three times normal human

proportions. A MUSICAL CHORUS sounds at the sight of this

drawing of a girl with the thumbs. The chartkeeper puts the

finishing touches on the drawing.

And the song "Happy Birthday to You" strikes up on country

and western guitar and polka-like accordion. title

INT. RICHMOND VIRGINIA SUBURBAN HOME DAY

We see CANDLES burning on a cake. It is somebody's birthday.

And there are six candles on the cake.

SISSY HANKSHAW is six years old.

Her DADDY and a visiting UNCLE, finishing their rendition of

Happy Birthday, are staring down at Sissy and looking at her

young THUMBS, WHICH ARE UNUSUALLY LARGE and twitch with a

mind of their own.

She manages to blow out all six candles.

Sissy is negotiating a fork full of birthday cake, dropping

it because of her thumbs.

Laughing, the men walk to the kitchen to fill their glasses.

Sissy is left to feel sorry for herself in front of her cake.

This startles Sissy. A new word that tinkles in her head

with a supernatural echo. Sissy looks at her thumbs.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE DAY

Dr. Dreyfus looks over Sissy's thumbs.

Sissy beams serenely like a Christ figure.

INT. SCHOOL LIBRARY DAY

Sissy looks up "thumb" in the dictionary. It says: the short,

thick first or most preaxial digit of the human hand,

differing from the other fingers by having two phalanges and

greater freedom of movement.

Sissy mouthing the words: "Greater freedom of movement."

EXT. ROAD DAY

Sissy very timidly ventures a pass with her gigantic right

thumb in the direction she is walking.

She is passed by...... BUT NO!

BRAKE LIGHTS! A Pontiac skids ever so slightly on the

snowflakes. View of the Pontiac insignia on the hood of the

car.

Sissy runs, actually sweating, to its side. She peers in.

OUTSIDE a palmist's trailer is a sign with a red silhouette

of a hand.

Directly under the wrist where the watch band would be is

written MADAME ZOE.

Madam Zoe in kimono and wig lets Sissy and her mother in the

door.

Inside. Madame Zoe begins stubbing a cigarette in one of

those enlightened little ceramic ashtrays that are shaped

like bedpans and inscribed BUTTS. The trailer is cluttered,

but not one knick-knack, chintz curtain or chenille-covered

armchair seems to have come from the Beyond.

Then she notices the thumbs.

Mrs. Hankshaw and the fortune-teller turn pale and uncertain,

while Sissy recognizes with a faint smile that she is in

command.

Sissy extends the thumbs as an ailing aborigine might extend

his swollen parts to a medical missionary. Sissy's mama draws

a neatly folded five-dollar bill from her change purse and

extends it alongside her smiling daughter's extremities.

Madame Zoe returns to her senses, and takes Sissy by the

elbow to sit at a For mica-topped table of undistinguished

design.

Madam Zoe holds Sissy's hands while she appears to go into a

trance.

She opens her eyes momentarily.

She pulls her thumb to her breast.

Mom speaks out from the couch she is sitting on

Madame Zoe lets go of Sissy's thumbs and wipes her hands on

her kimono.

Mrs. Hankshaw withdraws a bill from her rat-skin bag.

Madame Zoe takes Sissy's hand and gives it the old tall-dark-

stranger squint.

She raises her eyes to meet Sissy's looking for an admission

of the "tendency", but there is no signal.

Mrs. Hankshaw does not approve.

Mrs. Hankshaw, aghast, has heard plenty, and she ushers her

daughter out of the trailer as if she were leading her from

a burning cocktail lounge.

TITLE ACROSS THE SCREEN:

EXT. BADLANDS DAY

Views of vast vistas of arid grasslands, open and unmodulated,

thirsty and exposed.

At the western edge of the DAKOTAS, the monotony of the

landscape, now gradually tilting toward the Rockies, is

interrupted by the Badlands -- sculptured canyons so deep

and chaotic they can break a devil's heart.

Between the grasslands and the eerie badlands ruins, there

lies a narrow band of humpy hills, green and pastoral. The

hills are carpeted with midlength prairie grass.

The Rubber Rose buildings are clustered at the badlands end

at the base of a butte, higher, broader and longer than any

in its vicinity, known as Siwash Ridge. a sign over the entry

of the ranch reads:

Delores del Ruby arrives at the Rubber Rose Ranch, carrying

a whip at her side and batting an educated lash at the

surrounding sights.

A snake crosses the road in front of her, and she takes her

whip and whirls it around her head. The snake that is crawling

across the dusty road that leads to the ranch is carrying a

card under its forked tongue.

Delores snaps her whip at the snake and picks the card out

of his mouth and lets it fly in the air.

Delores catches it..... The card is the Queen of Spades.

EXT. ROAD DAY

Sissy is thirty years old now wearing a trademark colored

jumpsuit. She is saying these words still: "Greater freedom

of movement."

Sissy sticks out her thumb, even though there is no traffic.

A plane is flying overhead. Sissy hitches it; and the plane's

flight path curves with in response to her gesture. A squirrel

running by stops to look. The bus on the other side of the

road skids to a stop and two cars coming her way stop as

well.

INT. CAR DAY

The man driving looks over the back seat to the hitchiker

behind him.

INT. BUS DAY

The bus driver does the same.

EXT. ROAD

From the look of her Sissy is a very seasoned hitchhiker,

and she turns around relatively unimpressed with the fact

that a car has stopped for her.

SISSY'S VIEW. The man driving is black-skinned, beret-topped

and he has four smiling gold teeth and six shiny brass

saxaphones in the back seat. He wears a gardenia in his lapel

and tokes on a short joint.

Sissy gets in.

He turns up the volume of his radio and rockets north.

INT. LINCOLN CONTINENTAL DAY

Sissy ventures into her pocket and pulls out a slice of cheese

and offers it to him. He now gets a better look at her unusual

thumbs. They are elegant, but large boned, and

disproportionate. They are banana shaped boats that makes it

a little awkward to hold onto the cheese.

He eats the cheese, and worries about the thumbs. He tokes

on the joint between his fingers.

The man listening to her takes another toke on his joint.

EXT. ROAD DAY

A view down the road of the Lincoln Continental going swiftly

in its direction.

CREDIT INTERLUDE featuring the song "Even Cowgirls Get the

Blues" as sung by (an undetermined country or pop star like

k.d. lang or Bob Dylan) in an old television Kine-scope piece

of film like you might see on early 1950's television sets.

Between Sissy watching this image on old motel televisions,

there are also IMAGES of roads, cars, trucks, highways,

thumbs, gas stations and deserts gliding by in a flow of

natural hitchhiking beauty.

EXT. POST OFFICE DAY

Sissy gets out of a large eighteen wheel truck and walks

into a United States Post Office.

INT. POST OFFICE DAY

Sissy at the window picking up some mail, and opening a

lavender colored letter that reeks of perfume, she is

surprised to read this:

Sissy, Precious Being, How are you, my extraordinary one? I

worry so. Next time you are near Manhattan, do ring me up.

There is a man to whom I simply must introduce you. Thrill!!

-The Countess

Sissy looks at the envelope and return address. Elaborately

embossed is the Countess' logo...

INT. COUNTESS'S OFFICE DAY

The elaborately embossed envelope is now being sealed.. The

Countess gives it a licking... Beside him is a young

watercolorist named Julian.

INT. TRUCKERS CAB NIGHT

Sissy is talking to a trucker as they pass down the road.

In the distance, Sissy spies her destination. NEW YORK CITY.

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING DAY

Sissy gets out of the truck and looks up at a large building.

INT. COUNTESS'S OFFICE DAY

Sissy Hankshaw takes a seat. The Countess lifts a dusty

decanter.

The decanter is empty, a stiff fly lies feet up on it's lip.

He reaches into a midget refrigerator beside his desk and

pulls out some pop wine.

Sissy manages a polite smile. She looks at a heavily finger

printed glass.

The Countess taps his monocle with his cigarette holder. He

looks on his wall, and on a poster advertising a feminine

hygene product, Yoni Yum Dew Spray, stands Sissy Hankshaw,

her thumbs neatly hidden, chopped off by the borders of the

photograph.

The Countess's jaw muscles calm down, his dentures ease into

a samba...

He looks out his window as a squirrel crosses Park Avenue.

The Countess hands Sissy an article that she reads clenched

in her fist.

Sissy dares a sip of Red Ripple.

The Countess refills his glass. The squirrel starts across

Park Avenue again but doesn't make it. The uniformed chauffeur

gets out of a limousine and holds the crushed animal up where

it can be seen by an elderly woman passenger.

Suddenly the Countess swivels in his desk chair and leans

forward. Lowering his wine glass, he focuses directly,

intensely into Sissy's blue eyes. His smile widens.

A title:

INT. RUBBER ROSE OUTHOUSE DAY

The Outhouse Radio is playing "The Starving Armenians Polka"

and Bonanza Jellybean and Delores del Ruby are in the privy,

caught in the rain.

Delores flicks her whip at a sweat bee that has taken refuge

in the privy and hits the photograph of Dale Evans upon which

it has lit.

Jelly looks out the door of the outhouse across a cut green

lawn to a bunkhouse where we can see a gathering of other

cowgirls.

There is a fly buzz and a distant polka yip. Way off horse

lips flutter.

Bonanza spies a picture of Sissy Hankshaw, an advertisement

for Yoni Yum Dew Spray mist, on the privy wall.

INT. BUNKHOUSE DAY

A meeting is in progression in the bunkhouse that morning.

Mary is addressing the group.

Some of the younger cowgirls blush.

A round of support from the other cowgirls in the form of

cattle calls.

INT. OUTHOUSE DAY

Jelly and Delores are getting ready to run through the rain,

when all of a sudden, Jelly spies a barefoot cowgirl -- it's

Debbie -- run across the yard in her karate robe, jump on

the Exercycle that is rusting in the weeds and begin pumping

the pedals furiously in the yammering rain.

But in a minute, others follow Debbie, everyone of them, in

fact; the entire bunkhouse load of them, some thirty young

cowgirls, squealing, giggling, They slide and roll on the

wet grass, push each other into the mud that is forming by

the corral fence, chase one another in and out of the thick

folds of rain draperies, stamp their cute feet in puddles

and do bellyflops into the overflowing horse trough.

The cowgirls frolic until, as suddenly as it has come, the

rain goes away. Play ceases. They are panting like puppies

as they lean against one another or pick clods of mud from

one another's hair.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY NIGHT

In the lobby, the doors of an elevator open revealing Sissy

inside wearing a buttoned up dress. Very formal looking for

her.

There is Julian standing in the lobby. He turns and walks

toward Sissy. He is wearing a rather formal looking plaid

sport coat with blue cummerbund. He extends his hand to meet

her, and (perhaps at the sight of Sissy's thumbs) Julian has

an asthma attack, doubling over in front of her.

Sissy doesn't know whether to assist Julian or flee.

From the other side of the lobby, two WELL-GROOMED COUPLES,

white, mid-thirties and upper middle class come to the rescue.

The younger of the men, RUPERT, takes charge. He breaks an

inhaler of dinephrine under Julian's nose.

In the red of embarrassment, Julian looks more Indian than

he had previously. Wheezing, he speaks:

EXT. STREET NIGHT

Rupert is helping Julian to the street. Rupert is a salesman

for a publishing house. His wife Carla, a homemaker, as they

say. The other couple breaks down into Howard and Marie Barth,

both copywriters for an ad agency.

Howard hails a cab and Carla and Marie flutter around Sissy.

Carla nods. Everyone is piling into the taxi.

Sissy is forced to suffer the indignity of riding in a vehicle

she wasn't responsible for flagging with her own thumbs.

INT. CAB NIGHT

Carla starts to pat Sissy's hand, then decides to leave the

thumbs to themselves.

The six of them are squeezed into the taxi. Sissy looks out

the window of the taxi:

SISSY'S VIEW as the taxi stops at a light, she can see a

newsstand headline on the front page of the New York Daily

News:

THE CHINK SUMS IT UP, SAYS LIFE IS HARD IF YOU THINK IT'S

HARD.

EXT. JULIAN'S APARTMENT NIGHT

THE TAXI stops in front of Julian's building. It discharges

its passengers.

INT. JULIAN'S APARTMENT NIGHT

INSIDE Howard mixes Scotch and sodas, Rupert fills a syringe

from a vial of aminophylline he has taken from its place

behind a gelatin salad mold in the refrigerator. He gives

Julian an injection.

He turns to Sissy.

Carla smiles as if she were joking, but she'd said it tartly.

Rupert glares and takes a big bite of Scotch.

Everyone looks a bit astonished including the recumbent

Julian.

Rupert bites into his Scotch again. Julian issues a watery

wheeze. Then, silence.

Sissy leaves her chair and wanders about the apartment. Which

is full of books and shelves.

Sissy is intrigued by an antique here and an object d'art

there, but she knows she is in an alien environment.

INT. JULIAN'S BEDROOM NIGHT

Sissy enters a bedroom There is a covered birdcage. She sits

upon the bed listening for a 'cheep' from the birds.

And gradually she reclines. Then turning her head to the

side against the bedspread:

And she blacks out. And the sound drifts away in waves, so

there is only the whistle of a distant wind through the mortar

of the apartment building...

...Until one by one, we see button necks freed. Soon Sissy

can feel it.

Someone is undressing her. In a voice webby with sleep she

lifts her head up, and sees Howard and Marie.

Sissy thinks this is nice, but wonders, however, why they

are both in their underwear.

Between the two of them, they have gotten Sissy out of her

dress in no time. Sissy feels she should apologize for not

having on a brassiere.

Marie slips out of her own brassiere and moves her bare bosom

close to Sissy's.

Howard cups his left hand about a Marie breast and his right

about one of Sissy's. He weighs them in his palms, squeezes

them the way an honest grocer squeezes excess water from a

lettuce, and spreads his fingers to sample their

circumference.

Marie seizes Sissy's free breast, quickly, like a monkey

picking a fruit, rolling it about in her hungry little finger,

rubbing it against her chin and cheeks...

...and...

...it was like her earlier days as a hitchhiker....

nostalgic..... tropical plums.

Like a disc jockey from Paradise, Howard flips Marie over

and plays her B side. Every now and then she reaches for

Sissy to include her, but the laws of physics insist on being

obeyed.

Over and over Marie calls Sissy's name with half-closed eyes.

The Barths are really going at it, Marie yowling like a cat.

The POODLE in the kitchen begins to growl.

INT. LIVING ROOM NIGHT

Sissy bounces out of the bed and patters through the living

room and crawls under the cover with Julian. Julian stirs

awake.

Julian and Sissy embrace and go at it under the covers But

suddenly: Julian stops after a brief climax.

Sissy cradles Julian and comforts him.

Sissy sits up, her eyes moping about the apartment, looking

but not seeing the macrame wallhangings, the volumes of Robert

Frost.

After a while Sissy answers.

Sissy gets out of bed and begins to dress.

EXT. CITY DAWN

Sissy trembles while she kisses her thumbs.

INT. TRUCK DAY

And Sissy is now traveling in a truck passing Fourteenth

Street on her way to the Geo. Washington Bridge.

View of that Bridge as the truck crosses it to New Jersy.

View of the wilds of New Jersey as Sissy travels to the West.

INT. COUNTESS' OFFICE

The Countess is on the phone.

Julian is on the other end of the phone.

Julian pauses for a very long moment.

The Countess' teeth chatter in his mouth.

EXT. ROAD DAY

Sissy makes little puffs of dust as she walks.

From the direction of the ranch a VW Microbus is approaching.

It is painted with mandalas, lamaistic dorjes and symbols

representing "the clear light of the void."

When the Microbus draws alongside Sissy it stops. Inside are

two men and a woman. They are approximately twenty-four years

old.

Sissy walks on leaving the people in the bus arguing about

whether the Chink's rock-shower and pecker-wag actually had

been intended as spiritual messages.

EXT. ROAD DAY

WALKING down the long dirt road, Sissy stops to take a

breather and sits down on a log.

Sissy thinking and looking into the clouds.

Waves of grasses whisper her name: Ssssssssss, Sssssssssssss

Sisssy.

Meadowlarks squander their songs on her as she begins to

squirm on the log.

A Lincoln Continental drives up suddenly. Sissy barely has

time to zip up.

The Cadillac stops in front of Sissy. A teenaged girl in a

Stetson is at the wheel. The rear door of the limousine opens

and a refined matronly voice calls from the void.

A chic middle-aged woman leans out of the car.

Gloria nods at Sissy amicably but doesn't make a move to

help her.

Sissy swings her sack into the roomy vehicle. Before she

gets in she flashes her thumb to hitch a ride.

The instant that Sissy shuts the door the cowgirl chauffeur

floors the Cadillac and it lurches away in a puff of dust.

INT. CADDY DAY

Sitting up after the bothersome lurch of the car.

Miss Adrian pushes a button that sends a partition glass

between her and the cowgirl driver. Gloria starts laughing

silently on the other side of the glass.

EXT. RUBBER ROSE DAY

The limousine pulls up in the drive.

INT. BEAUTY RANCH DAY

We see women having facials.

INT. HAIR BARN DAY

Sissy is being given a tour by Miss Adrian. A variety of

hairdos are witnessed.

INT. EXERCISE ROOM DAY

INT. MAIN LODGE DAY

Sissy and Miss Adrian walk through the lodge lobby, guests

and cowgirls are conducting a variety of activities:

A BIRD EXPERT projects slides of whooping cranes on the wall

and is giving a lecture about the habits of the birds.

In the center of the room COWGIRL DEBBIE is leading a mixture

of cowgirls and guests in a meditative chant as they reach

high above their heads in a yoga exercise.

Miss Adrian stops in front of the registration desk and Sissy

catches glimpses of the chaotic lobby.

The receptionist hands Miss Adrian a key to Sissy's room.

A COWGIRL makes a face at Sissy as she walks by carrying a

tray of herbal teas.

A representative of the film crew is being intimidated by a

Cowgirl who is looking though his camera lenses and shaking

them and listening to them like you would put a shell up to

your ear to hear the ocean.

Another cowgirl, BIG RED, is lifting a piece of furniture

and passes it to her accomplice.

Miss Adrian looks on helplessly.... she grabs Sissy and leads

her out of the lobby.

EXT. CORRAL DAY

Miss Adrian and Sissy walk out the back door of the Ranch

and out near a corral, to the sound of gunfire.

One of the FILM CREW MEMBERS is hanging out in the corral

wearing a shiny jacket with DISNEY printed on the back.

Miss Adrian grabs him by the shoulders and shakes him.

Another CAMERAMAN spits out a wad of chewing gum.

A devilish young cowgirl is sitting on a fence nearby. Miss

Adrian addresses her.

AND THE SUN SETS OVER THE CANYON, THE HILLS AND SIWASH RIDGE

NEARBY.

THE CHINK, with his back to us looks down on the ranch from

the ridge and watches Miss Adrian lead Sissy into a small

guest cottage on the ranch.

A DISTANT COYOTE HOWLS, AND A FEW SCATTERED GUNSHOTS ARE

HEARD.

INT. RANCH COTTAGE MORNING

Sissy stirs in a nicely appointed guest cottage. A maid knocks

on the door and serves Sissy breakfast in bed.

Sissy sits up and rubs her eyes.

The Maid puts the tray down, and the cloth that covers the

food is lifted away to reveal a shocking display of grease

and calories.

A vase of prairie asters stands over a double-meat

cheeseburger, a package of Hostess Twinkies, a cold can of

Dr. Pepper and a Three Musketeers bar.

Sissy is delighted.

Sissy notices a card. It reads:

Sissy devours her meal. Out her window she can see women on

exercycles, women doing jumping jacks and women in beauty

parlors.

A FIST pounds on Sissy's door.

IN SAILS Jelly, a cowgirl so cute she makes Sissy blush just

to look at her. She wears a tan Stetson with an aster pinned

to it, a green satin shirt embroidered with rearing stallions

snorting orange fire from their nostrils.

Her breasts bounce like dinner rolls that have gotten loaded

on helium and, between red tinged cheeks, where more baby

fat is taking its time maturing, she has a little smile that

can cause minerals and plastics to remember their ancient

animate connections.

Jelly grasps Sissy's elbow and sits on the side of the bed.

Sissy sets her tray on the bedside table.

The guests are huffing and puffing in between the pauses in

conversation, in the background through the window in Sissy's

room.

Jelly lays her hand atop the oval mound Sissy's thumb makes

under the covers.

There is a moment when the two girls feel something between

each other.

Jelly pauses.

Sissy's thumb twitches. Jelly swallows hard. They gaze into

each other's eyes.

A WHISTLE pierces the sunlight outside the window.

Jelly walks to the window and exchanges hand signals with

someone outside.

Jelly spins her six-shooter in her kewpie fingers.

She holsters her gun and blows Sissy a kiss, then is gone

out the door.

Sissy hops out of bed and from the window she can see cowgirls

gathering in a circle. Someone or something is in the center

of the circle.

Sissy zips herself into a red jumpsuit and hurries outside.

EXT. CORRAL DAY

What was in the center of the circle was a goat. Debbie was

scratching the animal's ears. She was hugging it.

Gloria cuts in on Debbie and gives the beast a hug.

She pauses and looks around the group in the circle.

Hurt, Sissy leaves the group.

EXT. RANCH DAY

Views of Sissy in her Whooping crane outfit dancing to Debussy

in front of the Disney film crew. The documentary being

directed by an effusive Frenchman.

View of the camera crew training their long telephoto lenses

on Siwash Lake. They all seem to be wearing the same trademark

satin baseball jackets with one logo or another on their

backs.

Another view of the lake, from above, from the Chink's point

of view and our first view of THE CHINK. The Chink spies

Sissy and Jelly coming over a ridge.

We cannot hear them at first, but Sissy and Jelly are talking.

Jelly takes Sissy's hand, carefully avoiding the thumbs and

helps her feel the depression in her belly. The depression

is a dimple, like another navel.

AFTER A HUNGRY STILLNESS, like intermission at a wolf dance,

rhythms are established. Jelly and Sissy are socked into one

another now, and they arch and push and corkscrew and

jackknife softly but with pronounced cadence.

Everything becomes scrambled. They rock each other in cradles

of sweat and saliva, until we can see nothing.

Noisy breaths buck out of Sissy: "Jelly, Jelly" but she can't

hear Sissy because she is screaming. Hysterical from the

scalding hot softness of girl-love.

EXT. HILLTOP DAY

The Chink looks on from the hilltop above indifferently.

EXT. FIELD DAY

Sissy and Jelly are riding on the back of a horse.

A WHOOPING CRANE is spied by Sissy as she rides on the back

of Jellybean's horse back to the ranch. Delores and Big Red

hurry to meet them.

Sure enough across the yard, in the midst of the low-cal

barbecue in progress, monocle reflecting sunlight, cigarette

holder stabbing the air, stands the Countess.

Jellybean chuckles sardonically and dismounts.

Sissy, confused, and loyalties torn in the face of an

impending revolution, leaves the corral and

SLIPS INSIDE THROUGH THE KITCHEN.

DOWN THE HALL

ENTERING HER ROOM, SHE LOCKS HERSELF IN. As she locks the

latch she hears Jelly's voice.

INT RANCH OFFICE DAY

Jelly has taken over the ranch loudspeaker system and is

giving an ultimatum.

INSIDE THE EXERCISE ROOM

Women are reacting to the demands.

INSIDE THE GREENHOUSE

Some women are taking up trowels and brooms as weapons.

INSIDE THE KITCHEN

The help is joining the revolt.

INSIDE THE HALLWAY

Other women are running for their lives.

INSIDE SISSY'S ROOM

She hears the screen door screech open and a chaos of

footsteps in the hall. She goes to her window. And she can

see, partially cut off by the corner of the building, Miss

Adrian screaming.

EXT. THE FRONT YARD OF THE RUBBER ROSE

The Countess seems to be taking it slowly, and calmly smoking

a French cigarette. He observes the fighting among them with

amusement.

The hands, who carry axes, picks, pitchforks and shovels,

retreat. The Countess, still grinning, reaches for an hors

d'oeuvre and subjects his cigarette to a measured, self-

assured puff.

INT. ROOMS

The guests are hurriedly packing their things.

INT. SISSY'S ROOM

She looks on.

EXT. FRONT YARD

When the revolutionaries have retreated about thirty yards,

they stop. With astonishing rapidity, they unbuckle unbutton

and unzip and step out of their jeans and underpants. Then,

nude from the waist down, thatched pubises thrust forward,

up front and leading the way, they begin to advance.

The Countess's grin goes down his throat like bathwater down

a drain.

Rather pale, his nose twitching, the Countess drops the caviar

canape he has been holding.

ON COME THE COWGIRLS, pelvises pumping, laying down what the

trembling Countess believes to be a devastating barrage of

musk.

Miss Adrian, lost in her own hysteria, charges. A barbeque

fork she hurls draws blood from Heather's eyebrow.

Quick as a frog's tongue, Delores's whip cracks. It's lash

curls around the ranch manager's ankles, pulling her feet

from under her. She hits the sod in a jangle of jewelry and

expulsion of breath.

A Molotov cocktail thrown by Big Red says hello to the sexual

reconditioning building. Within seconds, the structure is

blazing.

INT. MAIN HOUSE

THE BARE-ASSED COWGIRLS storm into the beauty parlor and

exercise rooms.

SOUNDS OF breaking glass and wood splintering. The air is

singing with cries of "Wahoo," Yippee," "Let 'er buck" and

"The vagina is a self-cleaning organ."

INT. KITCHEN

SISSY flees the house as she hunkers down out the back door.

EXT. CROQUET COURT

Sissy running across it. She passes the pool, and falls in.

Climbing out, wet, scared, she runs to the base of Siwash

Ridge and southward along the mountain's foot.

EVENTUALLY Sissy comes to a place where the juniper bushes

are broken to reveal a crude path beginning a steep ascent.

Sissy decides to climb up it.

She shoulders her way through low, slivery boughs.

Approximately halfway up the ridge she rests on a flat rock

from which she can look down on the...

BURNING RUBBER ROSE smoking away, distant yahoos and carryings

on can be heard. Horses whinney in the corral. A few gunshots

are thrown into the soundtrack if things aren't lively enough.

MISS ADRIAN'S CADILLAC, ON FIRE, roars out of the drive.

Sissy looks up to the quiet mountain. Pauses. Then she looks

back to the chaos below.

THE CINEMATOGRAPHERS' RENTED CONVERTIBLE AND THEIR EQUIPMENT

VAN drive away.

Sissy sits and wonders. The sun is setting on the horizon,

mixing well with the firelight that the Rubber Rose is giving

off.

BUT SHE is aware of something watching her. Looking about

she sees nothing.

VIEW of an empty trail.

VIEW OF a quivering bush.

Sissy turns to the sound of the CHINK.

AND THERE HE IS. Standing only ten yards away.

The Chink's problem is that he looks like he rolled out of a

Zen scroll, as if he says "presto" a lot, knows the meaning

of lightning and the origin of dreams. He LOOKS as if he

drinks dew and fucks snakes.

Sissy and the Chink scrutinize one another with mutual

fascination.

Sissy is just about to speak, but before she does THE CHINK

whirls, and scampers up the mountainside.

Warily he stops and turns, poised to flee again.

Sissy smiles.

SHE RAISES her ripe right thumb. And jerking it and swooshing

it, she hitchhikes the Chink and his mountain.

THERE HE STANDS where Sissy's thumbs have stopped him. The

Chink wears the wary look of a wild animal. He's not going

to stay stopped long. It is Sissy's move.

The Chink pauses for a moment, then he slaps his thighs and

giggles hysterically. Ha has, ho hos and hee hees squirt out

of his nose and through the gaps in his teeth.

THE TWO doggedly walk up the steep trail.

SISSY takes another look at the Rubber Rose, which is now

quiet. We can hear faintly a distant popping of washcloths

and girlish laughter.

THEY make their way into a depression at the top of the

mountain down a ladder of sticks.

THE CHINK lights a large fire in the middle of the depression.

HE puts a kettle of stew over the fire, and begins to roast

yams.

THE CHINK'S FACE as the fire dances off it.

A CAN OF CHUNG KING water chestnuts is opened.

CUT TO: Sissy and the Chink eating supper on a rough wooden

bench.

AND AS THEY FINISH, the Chink goes into a cave and returns

with a tiny peppermint-stripped plastic transistor radio. He

switches it on and the silence is broken by "The Happy Hour

Polka."

Still clutching the radio in one hand, the Chink hops into

the wheel of firelight and begins to dance.

Sissy walks around the fire watching the old geezer heel and

toe, skip and hop. He flings his bones; he flings his beard.

Arms swimming, feet firecrackering, he dances and dances.

When the song ends, the Chink puts the radio down as the

news comes on.

The Chink dances a little to the news, and then lifts Sissy

by her shoulders and guides her onto his pock-marked dance

floor.

The radio strikes up the "Lawrence Welk is a Hero of the

Republic Polka," and the Chink and Sissy dance arm in arm,

their shadows reel against the curves of the depression in

the mountain.

Night birds fly past with fluttering feathers. A bat flies

out of the cave.

The Chink escorts Sissy to a dark side of the depression and

sits her down upon a pile of soft stuff: dried wheatgrass,

faded Indian blankets and old down pillows without cases.

A twanging noise sounds from the bowels of the nearby cave.

The Chink pauses to decide whether he should talk any further,

then proceeds.

Sissy cradles her head in her arms, but is startled by a

louder noise from the clockworks. The Chink is startled too.

Bonk! sounds the cave, and then it chimes poing!

The Chink smiles at the noise coming from his clockworks.

INT. CAVE NIGHT

The Chink leads Sissy into the cave where we see his

clockworks. It is made of garbage can lids and old saucepans

and lard tins and car fenders all wired together with baling

wire. A bat flies into it making a bong noise and the

contraption moves a little.

INT. THE GREAT BURROW

A gathering of the Clock People. A woman is giving birth

near the Giant timekeeping hourglass.

INT. SIWASH CAVE NIGHT

Sissy listens to the Chink as they walk around the Chink's

clockworks.

The Chink holds Sissy's thumbs in his hands adoringly.

Sissy interrupts the Chink for a second while he is

worshipping her thumbs.

Then he says nothing. And his silence makes Sissy weep. They

sit down on a grass floor, illuminated by the fire outside

the cave.

Then the Chink, without hesitation, grasps her thumbs. He

squeezes them, caresses them, covers them with wet kisses,

telling them how beautiful they are.

Sissy is bowled over, frightened, stunned, elated, moved

almost to tears.

Sissy bends her head back and whispers.

And as the Chink plunges into Sissy, she arches her spread

bottom against the blankets and rears up to meet him halfway.

Their bodies glowing in the firelight, they cast shadows of

ANCIENT BEINGS, anthropomorphs making love through the night

under the moon.

INT. CAVE DAY

SUNBEAMS awaken Sissy. When she looks around she sees an

inscription has been freshly scrawled on the right wall.

And on the left wall:

Sissy hears and then sees A HELICOPTER in the sky above the

ranch. Sissy gets up and walks out of the cave.

EXT. TRAIL MORN

Sissy walks.

EXT. RUBBER ROSE

Sissy hitches a ride out of town.

EXT. FRONT DOORSTEPS MORNING

Countless NEWSPAPERS on countless porches, and the headline

of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reads:

OUR WHOOPING CRANES ARE MISSING.

INT. THE COUNTESS' OFFICE DAY

The countess is in a snit.

Sissy strikes the Countess with her right thumb -- with

astonishing force.

Immediately the thumb strikes again, this time shattering

the Countess's monocle against his eye.

HIS DENTURES fall onto the shag rug.

The left thumb strikes. Sissy is swinging her thumbs like

ballbats socking flaming homers over the left-field fence.

The countess is out on his feet. His eyes are closed. His

legs wobble. He does a pathetic dance, like a drunken old

fool trying to boogie with a chorus girl.

He topples forward and meets Sissy's onrushing thumb of

thunder which straightens him up, sends him over backward.

Motionless, he lies on the floor, a crimson part in his

thinning hair, a bright ooze at each nostril.

INT. HOSPITAL DAY

Seated on a spotless wooden bench is Sissy, staring at a

clock. A surgeon emerges.

EXT. STREET DAY

SISSY IS HITCHING OUT OF TOWN.

A conservative blue Econoline van out of the throngs of

traffic draws itself to Sissy as if on a string.

SISSY HOPS IN.

INT. VAN DAY

The DRIVER stomps on the gas. With a sense of disgust at her

own failure Sissy scrutinizes his sweaty brow, his smug hot

leer, his starving eyes.

Her heart sinks when she sees his gun and his knife. He is

also unzipping his pants.

EXT. STREET DAY

The van pulls over down a dead end alley between warehouses.

INT. VAN DAY

Sissy looks into the back at a soiled mattress.

The driver is taking his dick out of his pants. But with a

swift swoosh, Sissy's left thumb comes down hard on the penis

top, making the driver howl.

His finger fumbles for the gun trigger, but before he gets

to it, Sissy's thumb splats between his eyes. Twice. Three

times. He loses control of the van.

EXT. VAN DAY

It lumbers into a street lamp. Sissy leaps from the vehicle

and runs.

INT. WORKING MAN'S LUNCHEONETTE DAY

Sissy goes in and begins to cry at the counter as she looks

at her thumbs.

EXT. NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE DAY

Into a sunset hitches Sissy.

EXT. ROAD NIGHT

SISSY hops into a semi.

AND ROAD SIGNS:

Then

EXT. DR. DREYFUS'S HOUSE DAY

An older Dr. Dreyfus answers the door. Without Sissy's asking

he speaks.

In her embrace, the Doctor is presented with her thumbs.

LATER sitting inside his study, Dreyfus muses.

Pause.

VIEWS OF Sissy admitted to a hospital Blood analyzed in a

laboratory.

Powerful lamps turn on in an operating room.

IV tubes are inserted in veins.

Sissy is wheeled into surgery.

An anesthesiologist sticks a needle into a curved and creamy

ass.

An anesthesiologist sticks needles into a long, graceful

neck.

A nurse scrubs an arm.

A body and table are draped with sheets to create a sterile

field.

A tourniquet is placed on a slender right arm.

An elastic rubber bandage is applied so tightly it squeezes

most of the blood out of an arm.

A tourniquet is inflated.

A surgeon outlines in iodine an incision around the base of

a thumb.

Pale smooth skin is incised along a premarked line and

dissected down to the bone.

Woman flesh is sewn shut with four-ought nylon suture.

A tourniquet is deflated, a bloody arm bathed.

A young woman is rolled into a recovery room.

A nurse and two surgeons, their attention directed by an

intensifying pinkish glow, turn to stare into a metal pan,

where a huge human thumb, disarticulated from the hand it

has been severed from, is now flopping about like a trout,

or rather, arching and thrusting itself in a calculated and

endlessly repeated gesture, the gesture of the hitchhike.

EXT. SKY DAY

Two representatives of the Fish and Wildlife Service are

flying over Siwash Lake in a U.S. Forestry Service Helicopter.

THEY CAN SEE the whooping cranes by the side of the lake.

And as they are recording this, shots from a band of young

women on horseback drive them away.

EXT. RUBBER ROSE RANCH DAY

the same two agents are driving in a truck approaching the

Rubber Rose Ranch. Two bullet ricochets spin off the hood

and roof of their truck and they stop to see a lone teenaged

cowgirl with a rifle.

EXT. RUBBER ROSE GATES DAY

An entourage of Forest Service Rangers, a county sheriff,

four deputy shriffs, a state game warden and Mottburg's town

marshall and several of his deputies, the editor of the

Mottburg Gazette and a couple of bird watchers or two are

met by...

AT LEAST FIFTEEN ARMED FEMALES at the gate of the Ranch.

Through a bullhorn, Jelly speaks out at the entourage of law

enforcement officers.

AND OVER THE AIRWAVES an announcement is broadcast.

INT. WHITE HOUSE DAY

THE ASSISTANT INTERIOR UNDERSECRETARY IS SPEAKING INTO A

MICROPHONE FOR THE NEWS, and reading from a paper in his

hand.

INT. SCHOOL AURITORIUM

Students listening...

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE DAY

Two construction workers high atop the city listening to a

small transistor radio and eating lunch.

EXT. MALL DAY

A crowd of people listening to a broadcast in front of a

bandstand set up in front of the mall.

The crowd cheers.

EXT. FIELD DAY

Cowgirls are watching a small television.

EXT. RUBBER ROSE RANCH DAY

A vehicle know as "the peyote wagon" pulls out of the Rubber

Rose. Delores del Ruby is at the wheel. And over her truck

radio we hear:

EXT. HILL DAY

A lone FBI man sees the peyote wagon leaving the ranch through

his binoculars.

INT. CAR NIGHT

Sissy hears a broadcast over a moving car radio.

We can hear the voice of Bonanza Jellybean:

Sissy recognizes the voice.

INT. RANCH OFFICE

Jelly is on the telephone.

INT. HOSPITAL RECOVERY ROOM DAY

Sissy listens to the radio.

EXT. ROAD DAY

Sissy is hitchhiking with her new thumb. But cars pass one

after another without stopping. Until Sissy finally tries

her left thumb, which has been spared the knife.

With this thumb there are new maneuvers to try out. And as

soon as the does, a car stops.

MOSAIC of hitchhiking brilliance with Sissy's use of her

left thumb. A CLOCK IS TICKING past twelve then on to six

and past eight.... she dances wildly around traffic, stopping

the hardest of drivers, THE CLOCK TICKS AWAY and within thirty

hours she is approaching Mottburg again.

EXT. RUBBER ROSE DAY

The Ranch is now surrounded by two hundred federal marshalls

reinforced by a dozen FBI agents with loaded guns taking

position outside the ranch.

Sissy gets out of her car and walks past the posse and through

the gates.

Kym carries a radio which is playing "The Day-Old Apple

Strudel Polka" across the corral. She carries the radio as

if it is a suitcase full of skunk lice.

Kym ropes the radio to her saddle horn and prepares to give

it a ride across the Dakota hills. She gets on her horse and

rides by the Ranch bungalows and spies Sissy sitting in the

outhouse.

Kym gets off her horse and hugs Sissy.

THEY RIDE ACROSS THE HILLS. Then they stop at an outlook and

Sissy sees the circular barricade in the field below.

EXT. CAMP DAY

A few cowgirls in the camp huddle around a radio:

SISSY RIDES INTO CAMP on the back of Kym's horse the way

that John Wayne would have ridden into the Alamo; Heather,

Bonanza Jellybean, Debbie, Elaine and Linda dance up to meet

her.

Before Sissy is completely on the ground, Jelly's tongue is

in her mouth. She stumbles out of a stirrup into a wiggly

embrace.

Debbie stokes up a big joint right now, as Jelly gets out

her six guns and fires them in the air. Heather twirls and

jumps through her rope.

The "Unsung Hero Returns Polka" strikes up on the radio.

Elaine rears up on her horse.

EXT. HILLSIDE DAY

FROM AFAR, AN FBI AGENT views the little going on.

But as the Agent is saying this, viewing them from the ridge,

a large rock tumbles down the hill and grazes his head,

knocking him out.

VIEW of the side of the ridge from where the rock came, but

there is strangely nothing where we expect to see the Chink.

BELOW: The cowgirls.

Sissy frames the flock with the hole in the center of her

cheese sandwich.

Then Sissy and Jelly hear a news broadcast on the radio.

EXT. PRAIRIE NIGHT

Sissy and Jelly lie under the same stars, under the same

blankets. Under the same spell.

EXT. CAMPFIRE NIGHT

Delores and some of the other cowgirls are talking. A sharp

wind is beginning to gust.

Delores cracks her whip then parades around the campfire.

A few of the cowgirls cheer.

Big Red opens a can of beans with a Bowie knife.

Delores snaps her whip again.

EXT. SIWASH LAKE DAY

Delores del Ruby appears from the reeds at Siwash Lake's

edge, asleep yet awake. She has sunk so deep into the hole

in her mind that gale and dust could not follow her.

AS SHE APPROACHES THE COWGIRL CAMP, THEY GATHER AROUND HER

IN A TIGHT CIRCLE.

MANY ARE TRANSFIXED as they listen.

Delores holds up a card. The prairie moon illuminates its

tattered edges. It is the jack of hearts.

The forewoman seems to be tiring. Fumes of weariness stream

from her black hair. Her voice is leaning against the wall

of her larynx when she says:

As graceful as a ballet for cobras, Delores turns and walks

away into the night.

EXT. RANCH GATES DAY

THE FBI, other VIGILANTES and POLICEMEN wait in anticipation

of an attack outside of the boundaries of the ranch.

EXT. THE COWGIRL COMPOUND DAY

Jelly is addressing the group of cowgirls.

Small protests from the circle of cowgirls.

The cutest cowgirl in the world stood up and stretched out.

But Jelly is already on her way.

BONANZA JELLYBEAN VAULTS over the carcass of a reducing

machine and plants her Tony Lama boots in the stirrup of her

saddle and straddles her horse and takes off.

EXT. COMPOUND DAY

The posse surrounding the ranch, can see Jelly coming over

the hill on her horse at a full gallop.

EXT. HILL DAY

Jelly stops her horse, looks down at her waist, and sees her

sixguns.

THROUGH the scope of an FBI rifle, Jelly is drawing her gun

out of her holster.

He squeezes the trigger, and Jelly is caught in the stomach

with a bullet. She falls off her horse to the ground.

THE CHINK sees Bonanza Jellybean cut down from a vantage

point on the hill, and makes a beeline for the government

barricades, SHOUTING.

THE COWGIRLS scream and cry, and grab their weapons. A couple

of them leap from the barricade and are immediately riddled.

EXT. HILL DAY

The six-gun slips from her fingers.

Twenty or thirty more sweaty triggers are squeezed on the

hilltop firing at Bonanza Jellybean.

THE CHINK RUNNING AND SHOUTING.

EXT. COWGIRL CAMP DAY

A VOICE OVER THE BULLHORN directed at the cowgirls echoes:

RANDOM G-MEN are sniping at the cowgirls, making it impossible

to surrender.

A stray bullet SENDS THE CHINK back down the hillside, beard,

robe and sandals flying.

IN THE HUSH that follows, in the echoes of the explosive

fire, the whooping crane flock rises in one grand assault of

beating feathers - a lily white storm of life, a gush of

albino Gabriels -- swarm into the waiting sky, and circle

the pond one time before flapping south toward Texas...

...they cast shadows over a dead Jellybean who is literally

biting the dust.

Sissy lifts Jelly out of the dust and holds her. Sissy lifts

Jelly's satin shirt tail and pulls down the waistband of her

skirt. Bright red blood is running out of her scar.

Confessing to Sissy.

EXT. NEW YORK SKY

The cranes fly over the Statue of Liberty.

EXT. PARISIAN SKY

The Cranes fly over the Eiffel tower.

EXT. RUSSIAN SKY

The Cranes fly over Red Square.

INT. MORGUE DAY

An undertaker pounding five nails into a white coffin. ON

THE TOP OF THE COFFIN are engraved two crossed GOLD SIXGUNS.

There are eleven famous cowgirls enameled on the edges and

in the middle it reads:

Title card:

A brown paper bag is sitting on the side of the road.

View of a bunkhouse trunk.

Hands lift the contents of the trunk away, rope, spurs, and

blanket and find the hidden sack of letters.

We see the Cowgirl saddling her horse late in the day.

We see the Cowgirl riding along a ridge.

And this we see also, the lonely Cowgirl feeding the letters

to a fire in the dusky early night. We can see the cowgirl

is Sissy Hankshaw.

She is crying now and feeding the fire, close of words like

"always" and "forever" burning up.

INT. BUNKHOUSE NIGHT

Sissy is sobbing.

Big Red offers a piece of homemade fudge and shows no surprise

when Sissy refuses it.

Kym kisses the lips quickly of the despondent Cowgirl, and

the bunkhouse lights go out.

Delores plunks a carefree song on an old Gibson, looks up at

the moon.

She plunks a few notes.

And the bunkhouse lights are turned off. There are some

giggles from the cowgirls.

INT. MAIN BEDROOM RANCH DAY

THE CHINK wakes up and is being cared for by Sissy. He is in

pain, but winking.

Sissy shows a picture of the Countess recovering in a hospital

bed, posing next to Doctor Robbins.

The Chink mourns a bit.

The Chink looks over and sees that Delores is standing in

the doorway.

The Chink smiles.

Delores blushes.

He begins to caress Sissy's belly. His eyes are smiling.

Sissy is surprised.

The Chink coughs.

INT. TRUCK DAY

Sissy and Delores are driving the Chink out the front gate

of the Rubber Rose.

He yells out the window of the moving vehicle.

EXT. THE RUBBER ROSE GATES

We hear the Chink yelling, and the Rubber Rose sign is being

changed to one that reads El Rancho Jellybean.

And the truck disappears into the prairie land.

A LONG DARK PAUSE, UNTIL finally we are inside the cave where

the Chink's Clockworks are at work..... poing!

It is revealed that Sissy is with Delores snug in the old

hermit's living quarters. She listens to the clinking of the

Chink's Clockworks.

And feels her belly.

The swell of her belly has forced her to sleep on her back.

CLOSE VIEW of Sissy's belly, and a little foot kicks from

inside. Or is it a foot?

VIEW INSIDE THE BELLY of Sissy's unborn baby. It is half-

Japanese, one thirty-second Siwash and all thumbs.

The moving thumbs are hitchhiking you.....

