LOG #028

"THE FABULOUS BAKER BOYS"

An Original Screenplay

by

Steve Kloves

WARNER BROS.INC.

4000 Warner Boulevard

Burbank, California 91522

April, 1985

(C) 1985

WARNER BROS. INC.

All Rights Reserved

"THE FABULOUS BAKER BOYS"

FADE IN:

JACK BAKER

is standing before a dirty window, looking

out at a dirty city street.  He is wearing a tuxedo.

WIDEN ANGLE

It's the GIRL from this afternoon.

Jack looks at the Girl, sleepy and warm under the

bedcovers, then at the rest of the apartment.

Not good.

The Girl glances at the bedside clock.

Jack looks out at the dirty street again.

The Girl doesn't appear terribly unnerved by this.

Jack shakes his head, taps a brown paper bag on

the sill.

Jack smiles, grabs the paper bag, and moves to

the door.

EXT.  STREET - JACK

Jack ain't exactly Cary Grant, but any guy wearing

a tux on these streets doesn't exactly mesh with

the milieu.  Pausing for a flask of whiskey at an

all-night liquor store, he breaks the seal before

he hits the sidewalk and moves on, drinking as he

goes.  Finally, he comes to a nice downtown hotel.

Slipping the bottle in his coat, he squints up at

the glittering building as if sizing up an opponent.

Tommy brushes at his new velvet coat.

Jack glances at his watch, waves to Tommy, and

moves into the hotel.

INT.  HOTEL - ANGLE ON FRANK

Jack's older brother, FRANK, is pacing outside the

lounge when he sees Jack approaching.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Jack turns to the wall, which is paneled in tiny

tinted mirrors shot through with veins of gold.

Frank just stands there, bottled up with

exasperation.

Jack steps into the lounge and Frank, shaking his

head, follows.  As they move away, a cardboard

stand-up is revealed.  On it are two 8 X 10 glossies

of Frank and Jack, and below printed in bold letters,

this: "Tonight!  The Doubly Delightful Tones of the

Fabulous Baker Boys!"

BAKER BROTHERS

as they make their way through the dimly-lit lounge

and settle behind matching pianos, it becomes apparent

that what the "Fabulous Baker Boys" are, in fact, is a

poor man's version of Ferrante and Teicher.

WIDER ANGLE INCLUDING LOUNGE

As they begin to plink out their "theme song" tables

of middle-aged couples sipping enormous banana

daiquiries begin to tap their feet and bob their heads.

After a few bars, the boys finish with a flourish and

the couples applaud.

Applause.  Little brother Jack smiles, winks, and takes

a draw on his cigarette.

Applause.

Laughter. Jack smiles like he's got a mouth full of

razor blades.

At this point, Jack begins to mimic his brother's words.

Jack lays in a few soft bass chords.

At which point Frank's hands descend onto the keyboard

and give birth to the melody of -- what else?  "People.'

JACK AND FRANK - LATER

They exit the stage to applause.

till one A.M. for you late-nighters.

INT.  HOTEL KITCHEN

Jack and Frank pass through the steamy hotel kitchen.

JACK'S POV - MAN

in an apron, cutting meat off a huge soup bone,

looks up.

BACK TO SCENE

INT.  OFFICE

Frank stands across the desk from a YOUNG MAN who,

despite his youth, has an irritatingly paternal

attitude toward the two men in his office.  Jack stays

in the doorway, smoking a cigarette, as if to venture

any further is to risk contracting some hideous

disease.

Frank glances at Jack and realizes he should have left

him in the kitchen with Hector and the soup bone.

ANGLE - JACK

Smoke curls out of Jack's nose.  He is utterly still,

like a pit bull eyeing a steak.

BACK TO SCENE

lessons.  By the way, Frankie, I'm declaring this.

Lloyd slaps a slender envelope onto the desk and,

business closed, busies himself with other matters.

back, do you, Lloyd?

thought maybe...

Frank bites down and takes the envelope from the desk.

Lloyd looks up.  Jack is staring right into him.

Reluctantly, Frank opens the envelope.

Lloyd doesn't answer.  He just looks at Jack, smiling

with amusement.

EXT.  STREET - JACK AND FRANK

Jack comes out onto the street holding the wrapped

soup bone, dogged by Frank, who's got the cardboard

stand-up under his arm.

The fabulous Bakers walk in silence until they come to

Frank's car. Frank opens the trunk and starts to put

the stand-up away.

Jack nods and starts to walk away.

Jack stops.

Jack just stares at Frank.

Frank closes the trunk and moves to the driver's side.

Frank turns the ENGINE OVER and pulls away from the curb.

Jack watches the taillights burn into the distance,

then takes the whiskey bottle from his coat and heads

for home.

ANGLE - APARTMENT BUILDING

Jack crosses the street and waves up to his apartment

building, where a black labrador is studying him from

a second story window.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

Jack's apartment is small, old, and comfortably

cluttered.  The most striking item is a vintage phone

booth placed against the wall.  As Jack lets himself in,

EDDIE, the dog from the window, walks over.  He is not

an overly enthusiastic dog, but you can see from his

face that he has a great deal of affection for Jack.

Eddie nuzzles the soup bone.  Jack unwraps the paper

and hands it over.

Jack hangs his tie on the phone booth and walks over

to an old phonograph stacked six deep with discs.

He lifts the records back up the post and clicks ON the

MACHINE.  As Bill Evans' smoky "PEACE PIECE" fills the

tiny apartment, Jack breaks the collar of his shirt and

walks over to the old piano near the window.  Settling

back with the bottle of whiskey, Jack rests his elbows

gently on the keys and stares out the open window,

listening to the music.

INT.  PIANO STORE

Jack and Frank work opposite sides of a large piano

showroom, inspecting rentals of every style and color.

WILLIE, the owner of the place, leans against a cheap

upright, contemplating his shoes.

Willie just looks at his shoes and shakes his head.

Frank frowns and glances around.

Across the room, Jack pauses before another piano.

Frank moves to another grand and alternates taps with

his brother to see if the two pianos are in harmony.

Frank moves to another piano and repeats the process,

watching Jack for a verdict.

After a moment, Jack nods.

INT.  DINER

The brothers sit at a window of a corner diner,

Jack nursing an ice coffee,

Frank playing with a plate of scrambled eggs.

The glass next to them is cluttered with photographs

of neighborhood luminaries,

including two of Jack and Frank in their tuxedoes.

Jack studies his brother's face.

Jack smiles and sips his coffee.

Jack glances up.  Frank nods.

Jack squints out the window.

EXT.  STREET

Jack, cradling a pink bakery box in one hand,

gets out of Frank's car and surveys the street

on which he grew up.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Unless you count the elderly gentleman picking roses

three houses down, there would not appear to be a wealth

of potential car thieves in the immediate vicinity.

But it's not Jack's car, so he doesn't press the point.

BACK TO SCENE

Frank smiles, recalling Cecil's near-demise,

then raps on the front door.

Jack studies the tree a moment,

then gestures to the tiny ribboned box in Frank's hand.

ANGLE - FRONT DOOR

At that moment, the door swings open and ELLIE BAKER

is there, a vibrant woman in her sixties.

Mrs. Baker hugs Frank, then, a bit awkwardly,

embraces Jack.

Jack looks over his mother's shoulder at Frank and

mimics "John" with a knowing nod.

Jack's eyes slide over to Frank as if to suggest he

holds his brother personally responsible for this.

As Mrs. Baker exits, Frank leans over to Jack.

Frank disappears, leaving Jack alone on the porch

with the bakery box.  Jack shakes his head,

wondering how he's going to make it through the afternoon,

then enters the house.

INT.  HOUSE

The front room is cluttered with his childhood.

Most noticeable are the pianos: two tiny uprights,

perfectly matched, their simulated ivory keys yellowed

with age.  Above them, pressed between glass and framed,

are the music ribbons, faded by twenty years of sunlight.

Finally, there is the sheet music, dusty and dog-eared,

piled everywhere in drunken stacks.

This and all else in the room Jack confronts slowly,

warily, but with a noticeable dispassion,

until his eyes fall upon a photograph.

In it, he and Frank are standing alonside a tall man

in baggy slacks, safe within the arc of his long arms.

Frank is staring straight into the camera, neat, clean,

perfectly posed, but Jack, a year younger,

his shirt too big, is caught in profile,

looking up at the tall man with an almost worshipful gaze.

All at once, Jack and his mother realize they are alone.

Jack nods and follows her into the kitchen.

He places the box on the table and stands off to the

side while Mrs. Baker sets about preparing things.

Silence.

Jack watches his mother poise the knife over the cake.

Her fingers are trembling.

Mrs. Baker nods.

Mrs. Baker stops and looks up into Jack's eyes.

Suddenly, a NOISE is heard in the other room.

INT.  KITCHEN - DAY

Frank comes stumbling up the basement stairs with an

old movie projector and a roll-up screen.

Frank sets the projector down and hands his mother the

tiny ribboned box.

Jack watches from the kitchen doorway as Mrs. Baker

pulls the ribbon off the box.

Inside is a tiny spool of film.

INT.  KITCHEN (LATER)

Blank screen, curtains drawn, the room dark.

Frank clicks on the projector and picks up his cake.

Mrs. Baker close on his elbow,

sets her plate on her knees and watches the screen.

Jack sits off to the side.

A title card appears:

"For Mrs. Ellie Baker, who made it all possible."

Mrs. Baker gives Frank a puzzled look.

He just smiles.

Suddenly, images spring to the screen,

obviously footage several years old,

showing Jack and Frank as children,

sitting at the tiny pianos, wearing matching suits,

smiling matching smiles as they play for the camera.

As Frank's laughter fills the dark room,

Jack stares with cold fascination at the screen.

Suddenly, a jagged cut springs the boys a year later,

in the same positions, smiling the same smiles.

Jack says nothing.

Jack's eyes narrow as the film jumps another year

and a man enters the frame, obviously by accident.

He is so tall his face cannot be seen.

As he dances quickly out of sight,

he ruffles Jack's hair.

As the film jumps again,

Jack glances at the photograph to his right.

The images on the screen flicker softly off

the glass of the picture frame.

Jack's eyes drift from the photograph to his mother

and brother, sitting close together in the love seat,

laughing.  After a moment, their voices fade and Jack

looks back to the children on the screen,

like two tiny men, mirror images of one another.

At first the changes are subtle.

Little Jack's tie is askew, his shirt missing a button.

But as the years flick by, the brothers resemble one

another less and less, until finally,

the little boy that was Jack is completely gone and in

his place is a slouching, tousle-haired adolescent in

rumpled coat and open collar,

a cigarette hanging disdainfully from his lip.

A woman's hand darts into the frame and plucks the

offending cigarette away in a flash.

INT.  CAR

Frank and Jack are parked in front of Jack's building.

Whispers of steam snake from the

mancovers in the street.

Jack holds out a trembling hand.

Jack looks over at Frank.  He nods.

Jack considers this a moment, then gets out of the car.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

Jack lets himself into his apartment and stops.

Across the room, curled up on the couch, is a little girl.

Jack takes the girl gently in his arms and carries her to

the bedroom.  As he folds a blanket under her chin,

he pauses. The girl's face is calm, peaceful.

EXT.  STREET - DAWN

The next morning.  Early.

The sun is peeking sleepily between the buildings and

beginning to drip out onto the street.  Suddenly,

RINGING OUT over the rooftops, is "JINGLE BELLS"

-- not the entire song, just the first two bars,

over and over.

IHT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - DAY

Jack, on the couch, his arm draped over a slumbering

Eddie, opens his eyes.  Across the room,

seated at the piano, is NINA, the little girl.

She stops playing and turns.

Jack looks into the sleepy face of Eddie and sits up.

He nods to the coffee.  Nina goes to the kitchen.

Jack rubs his head, then gets up and walks to the window.

Nina looks at Eddie, sleeping on the couch,

then brings Jack his coffee with both hands.

Jack nods.  Suddenly, the sound of HEAVY FOOTSTEPS is heard.

Jack and Nina glance up at the ceiling.

Upstairs, a DOOR SLAMS and HEAVY FEET ECHO in the

stairwell. Nina peers out the window.

TWO DEEP THUMPS sound on the ceiling.

Jack nods.

Nina kisses him on the cheek and exits.

Jack walks over to the couch and gives Eddie a nudge.

INT.  LUAU LOUNGE

Though the plastic palms and grass-skirted waitresses

of the Luau Lounge make the Fabulous Baker Boys' presence

seem a bit incongruous, Jack and Frank hold nothing back,

giving "McCarthur Park" the full treatment.

Unfortunately, the audience in the Luau Lounge wouldn't

fill a Hawaiian haystack and their applause

is less than volcanic.

As the guests wander out, clutching their roomkeys,

a freckle-faced BELLHOP comes up.

As Jimmy exits, Frank stands and points at Jack.

INT.  HOTEL CORRIDOR

ANOTHER ANGLE

Charlie takes an envelope from his desk and hands it

to Frank.

For a moment, Frank just stands there.

Frank looks at the envelope in his hands.

INT.  HOTEL LOBBY

Jack rises as Frank passes through the lobby with

the cardboard stand-up.

INT.  FRANK'S HOUSE

With the stand-up under his arm,

Frank enters and closes the door quietly.

A light is glowing in the kitchen.

The rest of the house is dark, quiet.  In the kitchen,

he checks the message pad by the phone.  Nothing.

On the table, a plate of cold chicken is waiting for him.

Next to it is a stack of bills with a note attached:

"Frank. Please."

Frank sighs and leans the stand-up against the wall.

The photo of Jack is peeling off the cardboard.

Finding a stack of glossies in a drawer,

Frank removes the old Jack from the stand-up and

replaces it with a new one.

As he presses the photograph in place,

his eyes drift to the one of himself.

It was taken a long time ago.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

Jack places a record on the turntable and sits at the

piano by the window.  As the needle hits the spinning

disc, a sharp, snappy BASS LINE REVERBERATES throughout

the apartment.  Jack takes a drink, then joins in with

the record, playing along.  His concentration is intense,

so much so that, a moment later, when the PHONE RINGS,

he seems not to hear it.  Finally, he picks it up.

Silence.

Jack listens to the PHONE HISSING in the dark,

then the CONNECTION goes DEAD.

EXT.  STREET

A taxi lets Jack off on a street of shabby tract houses.

In his rumpled city suit, Jack looks like a cheap

gangster amid the weedy lawns and overgrown junipers.

He walks up to the door of a small white house and

presses the doorbell.

When there is no response, he goes around to the back.

EXT. BACKYARD

The backyard is small, with a short chainlink fence

surrounding it.  Two kids, a girl and a boy,

are splashing around in a build-it-yourself

above-ground pool.

When they see Jack, they stop splashing.

Only their heads are visible above the water.

The two heads say nothing.

Still nothing.  Jack frowns, takes out a cigarette,

and pats his pocket for a match.

The kids' eyes widen at his profanity.

Jack, the unlit cigarette dangling from his lip,

ponders things for a moment,

then flicks the'cigarette away and steps over the fence.

At which point,

the tinier of the two heads in the pool begins to scream.

No use.  The kid's a world-class screamer.

Frank, wearing baggy shorts and looking alarmed,

comes racing out of the house.

Cindy points.  At Jack.

DONNA, Frank's wife, appears.

Jack waves.

Donna shepherds the kids toward the house.

The kids wipe their dripping feet on the outside mat

and disappear into the house.  Frank turns to Jack.

EXT.  BACKYARD (LATER)

Donna comes out of the house with a tray of lemonade.

The men are sitting by the pool in a pair of webbed

aluminum chairs.

Donna returns to the house.

Frank takes a sip of his lemonade and scans his

surroundings complacently.

Frank shakes the ice in his glass.

Jack shakes his head in disgust.

Jack glances up.  Dangerous territory.

Jack's look ends this.  Frank sighs.

Silence.

Jack laughs coldly.

YOUNG WOMAN

in pink sweater and a short black skirt stands in the

center of a tiny room in the back of Willie's piano

showroom, holding some sheet music.  Sammy Davis Jr.'s

face is on the sheet music.  Frank is sitting against

the opposite wall, a notepad in his hand.

Jack is at the piano.

Monica turns and, seeing Jack at the piano,

gives a little start.

Monica begins to hand Jack the sheet music.

Monica smiles.  She likes Jack.

Probably not, but Jack begins to play anyway,

laconically picking out the cheery tune while Monica

swings her arms and taps her foot. Despite all this,

Monica still manages to come in between beats and Jack

has to scramble over a chord to catch her,

sort of like a fireman with a net.

There would appear to be ample evidence as to why the

mother of Monica nee Blanche opposes her

daughter's career.

Monicals eyes are closed now and she is fully caught up.

Frank looks over at Jack.

Jack shrugs and continues to play.

Monica's eyes pop open.

As Monica exits, Jack and Frank glance at one another

and thus begins a seemingly endless parade of aspiring

singers who can't sing.  As Frank sinks lower in his

chair and Jack's ashtray spills over with wounded

cigarettes, singer after singer, in all shapes, sizes,

and colors, come forth to offer their own unique

interpretations of "Feelings," "I Gotta Be Me,"

"This Is My Song," and perhaps most appropriately,

"What Kind of Fool Am I."

Finally, when it is all over,

Jack and Frank are left alone in the tiny room,

looking dazed, exhausted, and mildly homicidal.

TALL YOUNG WOMAN

As the sequence ends, a TALL YOUNG WOMAN in high heels

walks into Willie's.  She glances around,

then spots Willie across the room,

eating a corn beef on rye.

JACK AND FRANK

are putting on their coats, preparing to leave.

Frank is staring at his notepad.

The Woman in high heels stumbles into the doorway,

holding a shoe in her hand.  It's broken.

After today, Jack and Frank are prepared

to believe anything.

Frank looks at his watch.

The Woman looks around her.

Frank begins to leave.

Jack and Frank glance at each other.

Before Frank can answer, Jack walks over to the piano.

Jack and Frank exchange a glance.

Susie gives Frank a dark look, then turns to Jack.

Jack nods and begins to play.

Frank slouches down in his chair,

preparing to be tortured again.

Susie stops.  Frank just sits there.

Jack just sits there.  She can sing.

Jack looks over at Frank like he's insane.

Frank's not amused.

Susie walks out barefoot.

Frank frowns and looks down at his hands.

Frank gets up wearily, then glances down at the notepad.

EXT.  STREET

Jack and Frank dash out of Willie's and glance up

and down the street.  Nothing.

Jack shakes his head in disgust.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Jack and Frank whirl around.

There, standing in the doorway, is Susie.

CITY SKYLINE

Gleaming beautifully at the start of a new day.

Once again, "JINGLE BELLS" is heard,

only this time carried a little further:

"Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way..."

JACK, FRANK AND SUSIE

Ensconsed in the back room of Willie's, preparing

for their first rehearsal ...

Jack nods.

Susie nods.  Frank poises his hands over the piano,

hesitates, then looks at Jack again.

Jack squints at Frank, then nods.

Frank turns to Susie.

Frank g1ares at her.

Frank poises his hands over the piano again and

begins to play the opening passage of

"Just the Way You Are." A moment later, Jack joins in,

and a moment after that, Susie.  Unfortunately,

Jack and Frank, accustomed to playing alone,

are a tad overwhelming and the result sounds like a

fifth grade recital.

After a few bars, Susie holds up her hand.

Jack and Frank stop.

Jack and Frank look at one another.

Jack and Frank just stare.

Frank stares at Susie for a long moment.

Susie looks at the two brothers.

WILLIE'S SHOWROOM - LATER

Frank is on Willie's telephone.

In the front of the store, just out of earshot,

Jack sits at a beat-up grand,

while Susie moves aimlessly from one piano to another.

Frank glances furtively across the room to where Susie,

making a very sexy silhouette against the front window,

is running her hand over a pearl-white piano.

As Frank continues to talk in the background,

Susie looks over at Jack.

Susie nods, goes back to stroking the piano.

Jack nods slowly, but Susie sees he doesn't understand.

Jack looks down at the piano in front of him.

JACK AND NINA

Jack's tuxedo is hanging in the shower as he gets

ready for the night's gig.  Nina, standing next to him

at the sink, watches as he works up a lather on a bar

of shaving soap, then paints his face with the suds.

As Jack picks up a razor, Nina takes the brush and begins

to soap her face in the mirror.

Nina holds up the handle of the shaving brush.

Jack gives Nina a look, then begins to splash his face.

Nina picks up the razor.

Nina nods.

INT.  HOTEL

As Jack enters the hotel, he passes by the cardboard

stand-up, prominently displayed in the lobby.

It is virtually unchanged, except for a small notation

at the bottom: "With Guest Vocalist."

On the other side of the lobby,

Frank is pacing nervously.

Frank hesitates, like a basketball player trying to

feint an opponent, then takes a flick at Jack's hair.

Jack hits him.

He looks capable of hitting him again, too.

Susie, wearing a flamboyant orange dress,

is standing across the lobby, staring at the stand-up.

Before Jack can reply, Frank grabs Susie's hand and

pulls her toward the door.

INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE

Frank, Jack and Susie dash through a cavernous

downtown department store, the brothers turning a few

heads with their tuxedoes.  As they reach the ladies'

department, Frank begins to flip through the

dress racks.

Jack, somewhat out of his element, is looking at belts.

Frank holds out an inky black dress.  Susie gives it

a long look.

Frank begins to drag Susie into the dressing room.

INT.  SHOE DEPARTMENT

Frank and Jack work the shoe department,

scouting the endless rows.

Frank grabs a pretty blue pump and gestures to the

SALESMAN, who's waiting on a woman.

The Salesman looks casually at Jack.

INT.  DRESS DEPARTMENT

As Jack and Frank return to the dress department,

Frank jettisons the shoebox and tissue paper.

Just then, Susie steps out of the dressing room.

Even Frank stops at the sight of her.

The dress is open down to the small of her back.

It's a nice back.

Jack takes the zipper and closes the panels carefully.

Frank puts the shoes down and Susie steps into them.

INT.  HOTEL

As the trio rushes into the hotel service entrance,

RAY, the assistant manager, appears.

All eyes turn to Susie's dress, which still has the

tags attached.

INT.  KITCHEN

The three rush into the kitchen.

A tiny MAN in an apron walks up with a meat cleaver.

Jack and Frank exit.

Susie stares a little warily at Carlos and his cleaver.

INT.  LOUNGE

Jack and Frank slide quickly behind their pianos.

About half the tables in the room are filled.

Some laughter.

INT.  KITCHEN

Susie sits on a stool while Carlos positions the dress tags

on a cutting board.  As a WAITRESS from the bar passes by,

Susie snares a drink from her tray.

Susie takes a quick sip.

As the Waitress exits, Carlos brings the cleaver down

with a sharp chop, severing the tags.

LOUNGE

The audience is laughing.

Applause.  Jack puts out his cigarette.

Applause.  Susie strides out of the kitchen, past the

busing station, and up to the microphone stand, which,

unfortunately, is not on.

Silence.

Jack and Frank look at one another, then, before

outrage can set in, plunge into the opening number.

Susie takes the mike from the stand and smiles sweetly.

For the moment, the audience doesn't seem quite sure

how thrilled they are to be here.

INT.  LOBBY

A BELLBOY exits the elevator and, hearing Susie's voice

coming from the lounge, stops.

He looks to the CLERK behind the front desk.

The Clerk looks up from the register and listens.

INT.  LOUNGE

Judging from the faces, Susie's as big a hit in the

lounge as she is in the lobby.  Head thrown back, eyes

closed, she sings with abandon, finishing on a long

extended note, then swooping down in a dramatic,

exhausted bow.  There is a split second of silence,

then thunderous applause.  Magic.

EXT.  HOTEL

The new trio, fresh off their first gig,

come out of the service entrance into the night.

Frank puts the money in his pocket.  Susie stares at

him, steaming.

Susie hurls the shoes at Frank and stalks off barefoot.

Jack is leaning against the wall,

watching it all with amusement.

ON Frank's expression we hear the OPENING NOTES of

"New York, New York" and we see:

SERIES OF SHOTS

Susie and the boys performing it in one lounge after

another, playing to increasingly enthusiastic audiences,

no empty tables now.

As the SONG ends, we CLOSE ON the cardboard stand-up,

newly done over with a picture of Susie and an

accompanying exclamation: "See the Sensational Susie

Diamond!" As the FINAL CHORD sounds we --

CUT TO:

INT.  LLOYD'S OFFICE

Jack and Frank, once again in the office of the

supercilious Lloyd, waiting as he prepares their

cash envelope.

Frank takes the envelope and begins to leave.

Frank glances at Jack, giving it to him.

Jack's eyes go cold.

As Lloyd's face drops, Jack and Frank step into the

hallway and begin to walk slowly away, playing it cool,

then glance at one another and begin to walk faster

because they're about to burst out laughing.

FOLLOWING SHOT

By the time they reach the lobby, they are laughing,

tripping across the carpet, out the front entrance and

onto the sidewalk, where their voices explode in the

night air and they begin to do a weird boyish waltz

together, laughing giddily, until they see - standing

under an awning, lighting a cigarette - Susie, watching

them with raised eyebrows.  Jack and Frank, frozen in a

clumsy embrace, quickly disengage and begin clearing

their throats and squaring their cuffs.  Susie exhales

a plume of smoke, studies them a moment,

then smiles slightly.

As she turns away, Jack glances up, watching her

trim shadow disappear down the street.

EXT.  CITY

Gray and cold.  The streets swept with rain.

And once again the tentative piano:

"JINGLE BELLS, jingle bells, jingle all the way.

Oh what fun it is to ride ...

Oh what fun it is to ride ... Oh what fun..."

INT.  VETERINARY CLINIC

Jack and Eddie are sitting in the waiting room:

small and dirty and packed with pet owners and

their animals.

After a moment, a WOMAN with a clipboard appears.

Jack and Eddie follow the Woman down a corridor.

The Woman points Jack and Eddie into a small room.

There is an examining table, a sink, and on the wall,

a chart detailing the various breeds of dogs and cats.

Jack glances around the room, then comes back to Eddie,

who's staring up at him.

Just then, a MAN in a white coat breezes in.

Dr. Beasley pats Eddie on the side, then turns to Jack.

Jack lifts Eddie up onto the table and Dr. Beasley opens

Eddie's mouth for a look.  It doesn't take long.

Jack looks at Eddie.

EXT.  STREET

Jack steps out onto the rainy street alone.

He glances back at the vet's with second thought,

then moves slowly off.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

Jack enters with a small grocery bag and opens the

refrigerator.  A carton of cream, a few eggs --

there's not much there.  He takes a small container of

cottage cheese from the grocery bag and places it on an

empty shelf.  As he closes the refrigerator door, he

glances around the apartment.  It is very still, very

quiet.  He looks up at the ceiling absently, then walks

over to the window and looks out.  There is a mug of

coffee there on the sill.  He takes it and holds it in

both hands for a moment, then places it back on the sill.

He sits at the piano and runs his fingers lightly over

the ivory, not making a sound, then places his hands on

the keys and begins to play.  "Jingle Bells."

INT.  CORNER DINER

In the front window, room has been made among the

photographs for one of Susie.  Inside, Jack, Frank

and Susie sit at a table, surrounded by empty coffee

cups and cigarettes.  Frank has several slips of paper

before him with names and dates.

Jack is staring out the window.

Susie, as she says this, is pouring sugar into her Coke.

Frank rubs his chin and looks at Jack.  Jack shakes

his head.

Frank looks at Jack.

Susie shrugs.

Jack and Frank exchange a glance.

EXT.  DINER

Jack and Frank step out-of the diner and turn their

collars up against the chill.

Frank pulls on a pair of gloves.

Jack shrugs.

Frank pats his hands together and glances into the street.

Frank stops, surprised.

Jack nods.

As Frank leaves, he takes a glance at his brother,

then disappears around the corner.  A second later,

Susie comes out of the diner.

Jack offers his pack of cigarettes.

Jack lights it.  She takes a draw.

Susie looks at Jack a little funny.

Jack holds up his hand.  Susie just stands there.

EXT.  VETERINARY CLINIC

Jack paces outside the veterinary clinic, rubbing his

arms against the night's chill.  He glances up at the

flickering sign over the building: "Twenty-Four Hour

Emergency Care." Inside, a KID with deep-set eyes is

bent over a magazine.  Jack hesitates then enters.

INT.  VETERINARY CLINIC

Jack glances around, ill at ease.

The Kid goes back to his magazine.

The Kid looks up at Jack with mild contempt.

The Kid disappears into the back.  Jack stands frozen,

watching the swinging door come to rest.  He looks

like a man who, unexpectedly, finds a razor pressed

to his neck.  He fumbles for a cigarette, but doesn't

light it.  He waits.  A moment later, the door swings

open.

Jack nods, then, moving stiffly, leaves.

EXT.  VETERINARY CLINIC

Outside, he reaches into his coat and takes the bottle.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

On the floor, a long line of bowls, each containing

a different concoction, all intended for the ailing Eddie.

Eddie, lying a few feet away, shows no interest.

In the kitchen, Jack is heating something up in a pan.

Jack dumps some brown slop into a bowl and places it next

to the others.  Nina and he wait.  At first, nothing, then

... Eddie's eyes move.  His nose twitches.

His head lifts. Finally, he gets up and walks to the

bowl.  He eats.

CITY

draped in winter.  Dark skies, people lost in heavy

coats, the city's battered Christmas decorations hung

tenuously across traffic-clogged streets.  Over it all

we hear "JINGLE BELLS," PLAYED for the first time

completely through, hesitantly but without error.

As the SONG ENDS, we are:

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

watching Nina strike the final chord triumphantly.

She turns to Jack, who's been listening from the couch.

INT.  LUAU LOUNGE

All done up in reds and greens for Christams Eve.

Jack, Frank and Susie -- each decked out in their own

little Santa hats -- perform "Silver Bells" for the

happy crowd. Jack, smoking a cigarette, will not be

mistaken for Santa Claus, but Susie looks adorable.

Frank just looks happy. As they finish,

the crowd applauds.

INT.  BATHROOM

Jack, now sans Santa hat, enters the bathroom off the

lobby and finds Santa Claus standing in front of the

mirror, fussing with his beard.

Jack looks in the mirror.

INT.  LOBBY

Jack and Frank step out into the lobby, thus giving

a few people, Susie among them, the curious privilege

of seeing Santa Claus exit a men's room.

Frank pushes through the revolving door and steps

out into the street in his Santa suit.

Jack looks into Susie's eyes, then crosses to the

door and exits.  Susie watches him go, then turns to

the desk clerk.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

As Jack enters his apartment, he senses a presence in

the room and looks over to the old phone booth.

Nina is sitting inside on the little stool, her head

tilted against the glass.  Jack studies her a moment,

then takes the carton of eggnog he's carrying into the

kitchen and grabs a pair of glasses.  He pulls a chair

over to the phone booth and sits down.

Jack looks at Nina's face, tender and young in the

soft shadows of the booth.  After a moment, her eyes

shift to the carton in his hand.

Jack nods.

Nina nods. Jack begins to fill the two glasses.

Jack pauses a moment, then closes the carton and sets

it aside.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - NEXT MORNING

Jack and Nina are standing in the middle of the room,

looking down at something.

Eddie, outfitted in a brand new, spanking red dog

sweater, stares up at Jack and Nina, wondering why

he's the object of so much attention.

EXT. CEMETERY - JACK, NINA AND EDDIE

(sporting his new sweater)

make their way across an empty cemetery.

Nina is swinging a bottle of whiskey.

As they come to a plot of ground, they stop.

There are two matching headstones, one for Jack's father,

fully engraved, and another for Jack's mother, bearing

only her name.  Jack studies the plot a moment, then

crouches before his father's marker: "ANDREW S. BAKER.

Adoring Husband of Eleanor, Loving Father of Franklin

and John." Jack brushes some dirt from the face of the

stone, then stands.

Jack nods.  Nina uncaps the whiskey bottle and pours

it onto the dead man's grave.

They stand another moment, just looking, then turn away.

As they begin to walk, Jack sees Eddie in his new

sweater sniffing at a gravestone.

EXT.  BUILDING

Jack is sitting on a suitcase in front of his building.

A moment later, Frank pulls the car up to the curb and

Jack gets in.  Susie is sitting up front.

INT.  CAR

Frank, burning with the afterglow of a holiday spent

with family, cheerfully maneuvers the car

through the city.

Jack and Susie stare disconsolately out the window.

Jack shakes his head and takes out a cigarette.

Jack stares at the back of Frank's head,

then puts the cigarette away. Susie takes a peek in

the donut bag and looks a little sick.

Frank reaches under the seat and hands Susie a sack

full of magnetic games, puzzles, and plastic cubes.

Susie looks at the radio,

then at the games in her hands.

INT. CAR - FEW HOURS LATER

Jack is staring out the window at the winter landscape,

an unlit cigarette dangling from his lip.

Susie is gnawing on a donut, deeply obsessed with an

elaborate plastic puzzle.

Susie snaps out of her trance and shakes the Thermos.

Susie notices an old, leather-bound ledger.  Inside,

there are hundreds of tiny entries.

A crepe-covered car surrounded by several other

HONKING VEHICLES passes by.  Jack stares at the beaming

newlyweds as they glide past his window,

two kids starting life in a beat-up Eldorado

covered with toilet paper.

Susie looks at Frank curiously.

EXT.  HOTEL

The hotel, done in a sort of King Arthur motif,is

built right on the ocean.  Frank guides the car down

a simulated cobblestone drive and the three get out.

It's LOUD.  Frank takes a deep breath.

As Susie and Jack follow Frank up the drive, Jack

notices the beat-up Eldorado in the parking lot,

its toilet paper streamers blowing

gently in the ocean breeze.

INT.  HOTEL LOBBY

The lobby is done in royal reds and blues and there

are a lot of swords on the walls.

Franks steps up to the front desk.

A lanky boy in velvet jodhpurs and high stockings ambles

out for the bags.  Tom hands Frank the room keys.

INT.  SUITE

Tom wasn't kidding.  The immediacy of the ocean beyond

the window is almost scary.

Jack stares at the ocean, then at the two beds placed

side by side.  Suddenly Susie comes through the bathroom.

Susie shrugs and returns to her room through the

bathroom.

INT.  DINING ROOM

Jack, Frank and Susie are in the dining room, which,

like their rooms, looks out over the ocean.

Dinner is over and they're well

through a second bottle of wine.

Jack nods.  Frank shakes his head, still lost in the

spring evening years before, then notices the newlyweds

sitting across the room.

INT.  BATHROOM

Frank, standing, dressed in pajamas.

Jack is staring out the window at the darkness.

Frank nods and moves to the bed.

Jack just stares at Frank.

Jack just stares at Frank.

Jack just stares at Frank.

Jack turns back to the window.

INT.  DINING ROOM - DAY

The next morning.  Jack and Frank are standing

in a huge dining room, appraising two elegant grands.

Jack steps up to one and runs his hand over the keys.

Frank taps a few notes on his piano, humming happily.

Jack begins to echo his brother's notes, listening.

After a moment, Frank notices.

INT.  DINING ROOM

A short, stubby LITTLE MAN in a charcoal suit strides

into the dining room, followed by Terrific Tom.

Jack, slouched against the piano, smoking, nods.

Frank glances nervously at Jack.

INT.  HALLWAY

Frank dogs Jack down a hallway.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM

Frank is adjusting his tie in the bathroom mirror.

Jack, sitting at the window, his foot up against the

glass, drinks from a flask as the sky above the ocean

goes dark.  After a moment, Susie enters wearing a

little tuxedo of her own and begins to brush her hair.

Nothing.

Susie looks at Jack.  Then Frank.

INT.  LOUNGE

As Jack, Frank and Susie perform "Strangers in the Night,"

dozens of couples move slowly on the dance floor,

while others sit at candle-lit tables, sipping cocktails.

As the song ends, the couples applaud.

Frank stares incredulously at Jack.

BACKSTAGE

Frank corners Jack as they exit the stage.

Susie looks around nervously to see if anyone's watching.

Jack pushes past Frank and leaves.

Frank watches him go, then turns to leave himself.

INT.  BATHROOM

Middle of the night.  Jack, fully clothed,

is sitting on the rim of the tub, smoking.

Susie enters.

Jack nods.  Susie looks at him carefully.

INT.  LOBBY - DAY

The next morning.  As Jack passes through the lobby,

he hears the plaintive PLINKING of a PIANO.  Curious,

he goes to the dining room and peers in.

The tables have yet to be set for the evening and,

except for Frank, the room is empty.

Jack smiles to himself and crosses the room.

Frank looks despairingly at the pianos.

INT.  DINING ROOM - DAY

Jack and Frank are eating lunch.  Frank has a tiny

stack of blue cards he's perusing.

He holds one out to Jack.

Jack nods.  Frank continues to go through the cards

as he speaks.

Frank jumps.  A WOMAN in a bright flowered gift shop

dress pokes her head in.

Jack is having a hard time imagining Florence Simmons.

Florence Simmons gives a little flutter of

a wave and exits.

EXT.  HOTEL - DAY

Jack is standing on the walkway that encircles the

hotel, watching the waves tumble into one another.

As he starts to take out a cigarette, he notices

Florence Simmons standing a few yards away

with a camera.

Jack shakes his head and Florence starts to aim the

camera.

As Jack turns, he glances over Florence's swaying

shoulder and sees Susie and a man standing at the other

end of the walkway.  They are leaning into the wind,

her hair blowing free, brushing the man's face.

The camera clicks.

Jack glances away from Susie and the man.

ON Jack's expression APPLAUSE is heard and a moment

later we --

CUT TO:

INT.  DINING ROOM - NIGHT

That evening.  The trio has just finished a song and

those on the dance floor are clapping.

Susie and Jack look at Frank as if they have no idea

what he's talking about.

Those standing on the dance floor applaud as the young

couple from the beat-up Eldorado make their way to the

front of the room.

The audience lets go with an audible "ooh"

and applauds enthusiastically.

A path is cleared and a tiny couple begins to make

their way to the dance floor.

They are indeed, and a sight slower getting to the

dance floor than Frank anticipated.

He nods to Jack and they launch into "The Anniversary

Waltz," but have to keep repeating the opening passage

while they wait for Ethel and Bert.  Finally, everyone

on the dance floor steps back and, with some help from

a few waiters, who slide a section of tables out of the

way, Ethel and Bert Lane begin to dance in the center

of the room, slowly but wonderfully, while the younger

couple whirls around them like a youthful satellite.

INT.  BATHROOM

Jack is sitting in the bathroom again, smoking.  He

hears Susie's door open, then VOICES -- hers and a

man's.  He puts out his cigarette in the

sink and leaves.

INT.  HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY

The next morning.  Frank, the early bird, is

returning to the room with a newspaper under his arm.

Whistling happily, he rounds the corner just in time to

see a man exit Susie's room.  Astonished, then outraged,

he goes to Susie's door and knocks sharply.

Frank and Susie turn.  Jack is standing in the hallway.

Frank looks at Jack, then Susie.

The three stand there awkwardly for a moment.

Frank shrugs lamely and exits.

Jack just stares at her.

He turns to leave.  Susie's eyes narrow.

INT.  DINING ROOM

Jack, Frank and Susie are sitting at a table in the

smaller dining room.  It is conspicuously quiet.

The main course seems to be a conscious attempt to

ignore each other.  Finally, Susie looks at Frank.

Then Jack.  Then out the window.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Jack and Frank's room.  It is New Year's Eve,

just before show time, and Jack and Frank are in

their tuxes.  Frank is on the phone.

Frank sets the phone down and stares at it.

Jack studies him a moment, then Frank suddenly

claps his hands.

INT.  DINING ROOM - NIGHT

A mass of swarming, jubilant people.  The voices are

high and loud and there's not a hand without a

champagne glass.  Couples lean into one another

intimately, dancing gaily between the tables, toasting

strangers without hesitation.

Gradually, the entire room joins the chant.

There is a blizzard of confetti as people scramble to

find that certain someone to kiss in the new year.

In this moment, Jack, Frank and Susie find themselves

oddly removed from the frantic cheer below them,

their presence suddenly unnecessary, forgotten.

Finally, Susie walks over to Frank and gives him a kiss,

then goes to Jack.  They hesitate, then kiss lightly,

pulling away and glancing awkwardly into each other's

eyes.  Frank sounds the first chord of "Auld Lang Syne"

and Susie looks away from Jack and returns to her place

on the stage.  As she begins to sing, the others in the

room, all intimate friends for one brief moment,

begin to sing with her.

As the voices slowly fade, they are joined by the

sound of the OCEAN until the ocean is all we hear

and we see:

INT.  HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Jack, lying on his bed in the dark.  He opens his eyes,

squinting against the light from the bathroom, then

glances over to Frank's bed and detects the outline

of a body in the darkness.  Swinging his legs over the

side, he sits up on the edge of the bed and rubs his eyes.

Suddenly there is a rustle of blankets and the shadow in

the next bed shifts, falling into the shaft of light cast

from the bathroom.  It is a little boy.  Startled, Jack

stares at the sleeping boy, then hears movement in the

bathroom.  Rising slowly, he walks to the bathroom and

gently eases the door open a few inches.  Inside, swimming

murkily in the steamy mirror, is the reflection of a man.

His back is to Jack, but Jack can see that the man is

shaving.  As Jack lets his gaze drop to the floor, he sees

that water is dripping off the man's pant cuffs and

gathering in pools on the bathroom floor ... Jack wakes

up.  He stares at the ceiling, listening to the waves,

then lifts his head and looks to the bathroom.  It is

dark. Turning, he glances at Frank's bed.  It's empty.

INT.  DINING ROOM

Dark and soundless.  Balloons, streamers and the other

debris of revelry cover the tables and floor like snow.

Frank is sitting at the window, drinking as he stares at

the ocean.  As Jack crosses the room, he looks up.

Frank pours him a glass.  Jack notices the bottle.

Frank smiles as he takes a swallow of his drink, then

leans his head back, staring at the ceiling.

Jack studies Frank as he stares at the ceiling.

Jack looks up at the chandelier.

Frank snaps his fingers.

Frank studies Jack a moment, then stares out at the

ocean.

Jack stares at the angry SEA, LOUD even through the

thick glass.

EXT.  HOTEL - DAY

The next morning.  Jack is sitting outside the hotel,

watching HELEN and BUD WILSON pack up the Eldorado.

The streamers, by now turned to mush, cling like oatmeal

to the car's exterior.  After a moment, Frank exits with

a little bag from the gift shop and pulls out a

tiny souvenir shot glass.

Jack shakes his head.

Suddenly, across the parking lot, the voices of the

newlyweds are heard.

Bud hesitates, then makes a rush for his wife, but

she's too quick and runs to the other side of the car.

Frustrated, he begins to run around the car like a

madman, trying to catch her.  Finally, when he gets

close, she darts off, sprinting across the parking lot.

OVERVIEW - CITY

Cold, dark, dangerous, but somehow looking quite

appealing after a week in paradise.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

The trio, looking road-weary, is parked in front

of Jack's building.  It is very late.

Jack gets out of the car.  Frank shakes his head in

exasperation, then looks to Susie.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

Jack lets himself in and closes the door quietly.

In the darkness he can make out Nina and Eddie,

curled up on the couch, asleep.  Above them,

hung carefully on a string, are some paper letters:

"WELCOME HOME."

INT.  LOUNGE

In a lounge whols basic decor makes abundant use of

several historical eras but which might best be described

as Modern Pilgrim, Jack, Susie and Frank perform

"Feelings," while waiters in huge Paul Revere hats pass

in and out of view.

KITCHEN

Jack, Frank and Susie exit the lounge to applause.

She's yelling.  The kitchen workers are glancing over.

Jack studies her as she tries to calm herself.

EXT.  HOTEL

A few minutes later.  Jack comes out of the hotel and

sees Susie pacing.

He sits down and watches her for a moment.

Susie nods and looks up at the glittering hotel.

Susie nods.  Jack studies her.  Something's on her

mind.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - DUSK

A record is spinning on Jack's phonograph as the sun

goes down outside his window.  As we MOVE AWAY FROM

the phonograph and PAST the window, we FIND Jack at

the piano, playing along with the record,

lost in concentration.

EXT.  BUILDING - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Susie is working on a Paris Opal, pacing, occasionally

glancing up at Jack's apartment, where the MUSIC can be

heard FAINTLY.  After a moment, she drops her cigarette

on the sidewalk.  There are half a dozen others

already there.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

The record finishes, but the needle doesn't pick up,

bumping into the label.  Jack glances at the clock next

to him and gets up.  He puts on a jacket, then takes a

pair of gloves and pulls them on carefully.

EXT.  BUILDING

As Jack comes out of his building, Susie stops pacing,

surprised.  Jack, wearing the same look of concentration

he had at the piano, doesn't see her and turns down the

other end of the street.  Susie starts to call after

him, but stops.

EXT.  JAZZ CLUB - NIGHT

The sun is gone now and the moon is in the sky.

We see the hot neon exterior of a tiny jazz club.

INT.  CLUB - NIGHT

Jack is sitting in the shadows near the stage, where

a trio is playing.  He has a drink in front of him,

but it is untouched.  After a moment, the trio finishes

and the pianist, a huge black man named HENRY, nods to

the applause.

Jack rises to polite applause and shakes Henry's hand.

As he settles behind the piano, he sits for a moment,

not moving, then nods to the two men behind him.  As they

begin to play, we recognize the music from the record.

Jack waits, then brings his hands to the keys.  As he

plays, his face is suddenly calm.  Peaceful.

EXT.  CLUB - NIGHT

Later.  Jack comes out of the club and into the night,

lighting a cigarette as he moves up the street.

Jack stops.  Susie.

Jack's face goes a little cold, but he says nothing,

beginning to walk again.

Jack studies Susie, then glances off.  For a moment,

they just stand on the corner, not talking.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT

Eddie walks around the couch and looks curiously at

Susie.  Jack moves to the kitchen.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - LATER

Light from a weak lamp, lots of shadows, as romantic

as Jack's apartment will ever get.  Outside the window,

the city looks like a thousand jewels, gleaming.

Susie cradles a drink in her hand as she moves slowly

about the room, slipping, in and out of the shadows as

if they were veils.

She looks surprised by the question.

Susie finishes her drink and sets it down.

Jack looks at her curiously.

Jack gives her an American cigarette and lights it.

Susie takes a long draw and blows the smoke out slowly.

Susie looks at Jack, but he just takes a drink.  She

looks out the window again.

She stares at the lights another moment, then turns and

nods to the phone booth.

Jack frowns, takes another drink.

It's a small phone booth.

Jack locks eyes with Susie, then glances away.

Susie blinks.

Jack glances out the window.

Jack glances up quickly, surprised.  He nods.

Susie stops, looks down.  Jack studies her for a moment,

then decides.

Susie studies Jack as he stares into his glass.

Jack stares at the glass in his hands, then glances

up and catches Susie looking at him.

INT.  JACK'S BEDROOM

Jack's bed.  In the darkness, we see Susie's profile,

her eyes looking up toward the ceiling.  Jack's body

falls slowly across her and he kisses her neck.

EXT.  JACK'S APARTMENT BUILDING - MORNING

We see Eddie, wearing his Christmas sweater,

sleeping on the fire escape.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - DAY

Susie is dressed, sitting at the piano, staring out the

window as she absently hits a key.  She is smoking one

of Jack's cigarettes.  Distracted.  Jack comes to the

doorway and watches her.  Plink.  Plink.  Plink.

Susie starts, looks at her hand on the piano,

pulls it away.

Susie throws the cigarette out the window,

then looks down.

Susie smiles weakly.

Susie doesn't move.

Jack waits.

Susie stares up at Jack, but he says nothing.

Susie tries a laugh.  Jack nods.

INT.  LOUNGE

Jack and Frank stand in a lounge, talking to NICK, the

manager.  Busboys move in and out, preparing the room

for the evening.

Nick frowns, looking at the two pianos across the room.

INT.  BACK ROOM

Jack and Frank find themselves in the back room of

Willie's again.  They do not look happy.

Jack and Frank look up.  A girl in a yellow and black

dress is in the doorway.  She looks like a bumblebee.

Jack and Frank just stare at her.

EXT.  WILLIE'S - LATER

Frank is looking at a list.

Frank folds the paper carefully.

Frank looks over at Jack for the first time.  He's

leaning against the building, staring at his shoes.

Jack nods.

INT.  ROOSEVELT HOTEL - LOUNGE

Once grand, now dark and dusty looking.  A small crowd.

No response.  Bored, brutally indifferent faces.

Frank laughs and his voice, eerily magnified by the

microphone, is the only sound in the room.

Frank falters as he sees Mrs. Baker enter the lounge and

seat herself at a table in the back of the room.

Jack follows Frank's eyes and spots her.

INT.  LOBBY

Jack watches as Frank gives Mrs. Baker a hug.

Frank dashes out of the lobby.  Jack and Mrs. Baker

watch him go, then turn to each other.  Mrs. Baker smiles

awkwardly, then surveys the lobby.

The brocade on the walls has faded and the chairs -

once covered with velvet, now with a cheap imitation -

look old and dowdy, but the room still maintains an

elegant dignity.

Jack watches his mother as her eyes pass over the room.

After a moment, she nods toward the lounge.

Mrs. Baker glances into the lounge, at the two pianos.

Jack shakes his head.

Jack nods.  Mrs. Baker smiles, then it fades.

Jack looks puzzled.  Suddenly his mother reaches out

and very gently touches her fingers to his face.

They stand like this for a moment, connnected, then

Frank steps in from the street.

Mrs. Baker takes her hand from Jack's face and turns

away.  Just before she exits, she looks back.

EXT.  STREET

Jack, walking home, turns a corner and suddenly stops.

Across the street, talking to a man, is Susie.  She says

a few words to the man, then touches him lightly on the

arm and begins to walk away.  Jack watches her retreat,

then follows, moving quicker as he draws close.  As he

reaches her, he gently touches her elbow and she turns.

Not Susie.  The woman stares at Jack, startled.

For a moment, he doesn't move.  Finally, he lets go of

her elbow.

INT.  CAR - NIGHT

A few nights later.  Frank guides the car through wet

city streets.  It's two AM and raining hard.

Jack stares at Frank.

INT.  HALLWAY

Jack and Frank make their way down a hallway.

Suddenly, a rapid-fire THUMPING SOUND resounds through

the corridor.  As Jack and Frank turn, they see a huge

YOUTH in a wheelchair dribbling a basketball toward them.

Jack and Frank step back and watch the kid one-wheel it

around the corner.

INT.  STUDIO

Jerry Lewis need not fear.  This is strictly a tin foil

and crepe paper operation. Along one wall is the "phone

bank," monitored by a few sleepy volunteers, and opposite,

in makeshift bleachers, is the audience.  A huge tote board,

set on rolling astors, is next to the phones.  The total,

at 2:15 AM, is $1125.38. As Jack and Frank enter, the kid

in the wheelchair is doing basketball tricks before the

camera.

Frank leaves. Jack glances around the studio like he's

walked into a nightmare.  At the phone bank, a heavyset

MAN in a sweatshirt and a cap, looks over.  Both the

sweatshirt and the cap have "Earl" printed on them.

Jack points to the pianos across the room.

Before Jack can further enlighten Frank, the kid in the

wheelchair rolls off and a guy in a cheap rented tux

strides in front of the camera.  He's VINCE NANCY,

the host.

The audience applauds.

Applause.

Vince gestures grandly to the left and Jack and

Frank enter from the right.

The audience applauds.  Jack glares at Frank.  He shrugs.

Jack and Frank poise their hands over their pianos and

begin to play.  As the music rises, the studio becomes

very quiet, almost still.  Unfortunately, Jack and Frank

are barely through the opening passage when a thunderously

LOUD BELL begins to RING.  Suddenly, Vince steps out

again.

Two post-pubescent giants roll out the tote board

right in front of Jack and Frank.

Jack looks positively homicidal.

Jack kicks out the piano bench and starts to leave.

Then, seeing the kid in the wheelchair, he grabs the

basketball and fires it at Vince.

Earl of the sweatshirt and cap puts his hand on

Jack's shoulder.

That does it.  Earl takes hold of Jack's collar and

starts to-wrestle him roughly toward the door.

Earl shoves Jack into the hallway, hard.

Jack stumbles back against the wall.

EXT.  STREET

Jack walks down the street, mindless of the rain.

Frank follows a few yards behind.

Jack stops and stares at Frank incredulously.

Jack just stares at Frank, as if looking at a stranger.

Frank suddenly steps forward and reaches into Jack's

jacket, coming away with a bottle.

Jack tries to grab the bottle but Frank holds it away.

Frank tosses the BOTTLE into the street, where it

SHATTERS.

Jack stares at Frank through the rain,

then turns and begins to walk away.

Jack stops, his back to Frank.

Jack turns, tough and dangerous in the darkness.

Jack suddenly bolts for,ward and grabs Frank by the

lapels.

Jack flings Frank against the wall, pounding, pulling

and slamming him in a fitful rage.

Frank slides to the ground, afraid, trying to protect

himself.  Jack hovers over him.

Jack comes down with a vicious fist at Frank's face.

Frank holds up his hands, trying to shield himself,

and catches a blow on his fingers.

Jack grabs one of Frank's hands.

Jack bends back Frank's fingers.

Jack pushes Frank's fingers until the knuckles crack.

Frank's voice echoes high above the sound of the rain.

Suddenly Jack stops.  Looking at Frank's hand, still

clasped in his, he seems as shocked by his own behavior

as Frank.  Letting go, he steps back awkwardly and looks

at his brother, beaten, to the ground, his tuxedo ripped

and dirty.  He stares at his own hands, the knuckles split

and bleeding.  He no longer looks dangerous.  He looks

hollow, frightened.

Frank, rubbing his fingers, glances up at Jack, but Jack

just turns away, leaving Frank on the sidewalk, and

disappears into the rain.  MUSIC begins.  A sad, plaintive

solo piano.  And we see:

SERIES OF SHOTS

Jack, crossing the street to his apartment, the rain

over now.

Frank, driving home, his face swollen and bruised in the

dim glow of the streetlights.

Jack, letting himself into his apartment and standing

there.  Alone.

Frank, easing the car into the driveway, turning off

the engine.

Jack, taking a bottle from the kitchen, moving numbly.

Frank, much later, still sitting in the driveway as

the sun begins to come up.

Jack, sitting in the phone booth, the bottle in his hand.

INT.  JACK'S APARTMENT - DAY

The next morning.  Jack is sitting on the windowsill,

watching the RAIN DRUM the GLASS.  He glances at the phone

across the room, takes another look at the rain, then goes

to the phone.  He picks it up hesitantly, then dials.

It rings.  Again.  Again.

Jack blinks.  It's Cindy.

Jack sets the phone back down on the cradle.

INT.  BAR

Jack stands in a dark bar.  It is early morning and the

light from the street gives the room a ghostly atmosphere.

A big, beefy MAN with a bar towel hooked in his belt is

talking to Jack.

Jack nods and points to the piano in the corner.

Jack walks over to the giano and strikes a note.

The MUSIC RETURNS, sad and plaintive, and we see:

INT.  FRANK'S HOUSE

Frank, attempting to give piano lessons to a brother

and sister tandem who would be better served by an

obedience school.  While the little girl pounds

incessantly on the piano, her brother runs circles

around the room, destroying everything in sight.

MUSIC CONTINUES and we see:

EXT.  STREET

Jack and Eddie, going for a walk, passing the diner

where Jack and Frank's pictures are still displayed.

MUSIC CONTINUES and we see:

INT.  BAR

Jack, in the bar, playing the music we've been hearing

throughout the previous scenes.  It is after midnight

and the tables are empty.  Only a few somber men remain

at the bar.  They do not appear to be music lovers.

As Jack finishes, he takes a cloth and wipes the keys.

There is a glass on the piano with money in it.

Jack glances up, but he knows the voice.

Susie nods.

Jack nods.

Susie tries a smile.  Takes a breath.

Susie stops.

Susie takes a slip of paper from her purse and hands

it to Jack.  They lock eyes for a moment.

Susie nods and walks toward the door.

Susie smiles.  As she leaves, Jack studies the slip

of paper in his hand, then drops it in the tip glass.

He glances at the door, swinging slowly shut in Susie's

wake, then reaches into his coat and takes out a bottle.

INT.  FRANK'S DEN

Frank sits alone in the darkness of the den.  The

cardboard stand-up is there, along with several old

photographs, including one showing two skinny kids in

tuxes standing with a glamorous Peggy Lee.  After a moment,

Donna enters.

Frank stays staring at the photograph of Peggy Lee.

Donna waits for her husband to say something, then sees the

photograph in his hand.

INT.  FRANK'S HOUSE - HALLWAY - NEXT DAY

Frank is standing in the hallway of his house, leaning

against the bathroom door.  It's locked.

Somewhere in the house, the PHONE RINGS.

Frank ignores it.

Donna, looking shaken, steps into the hallway.

Frank finally looks at his wife.  She's crying.

INT.  HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Jack rushes down a hospital corridor and heads for the

nurses station.  As he moves to the counter, Donna

appears.

Donna just shakes her head.

Jack looks frozen.

Jack begins to back away slowly.

EXT.  STREET

Jack moves aimlessly down the street, slipping in

and out of shadows.  Finally he stops inside a closed

storefront, his back up against the window, and looks

down at his hands.  They're shaking.

INT.  APARTMENT HALLWAY

Jack stands in an apartment hallway, waiting.

After a moment, the door opens.  It's Susie.

Susie studies Jack as he glances around the hallway.

Jack looks up.

He nods.  Susie steps back and Jack enters.

He stares directly into her eyes.

INT.  SUSIE'S BEDROOM - NEXT MORNING

Jack is standing at the foot of the bed, looking down

at Susie's naked back as she sleeps.  He studies her

face as if looking for something, then takes his coat

and begins to leave.

Jack turns.  Susie is looking at him.

Jack looks at Susie for a long moment, then nods and

turns for the door.

Jack stops, his hand on the doorknob.

Jack looks at her face, beautiful in the morning light.

Susie smiles slightly.

EXT.  STREET

Jack is standing across the street from his mother's

house, just looking.  After a moment, he crosses the

street.  As he moves up the drive, he takes notice of

the tree growing in the front yard and crosses to it,

kneeling by the trunk and studying the scars there --

cat's claws -- running vertically up the tree, the

damage smoothed and widened by time.  He runs his

fingers over the imperfection, then stands and walks

toward the house.

EXT.  HOUSE

Through the screen door, Jack can hear a CLICKING

sound and see partially into the front door.  Half

the room is cast in shadow, the other in blinding light.

He opens the door and enters.

INT.  HOUSE

Inside, the movie PROJECTOR is RUNNING, the tail of a

completed FLIP SLAPPING like a whip against the carriage.

Jack TURNS OFF the PROJECTOR and the room falls entirely

into shadow.  For a moment, the house is silent, full of

ghosts, then, gradually, a NOISE is heard coming from the

kitchen.

INT.  KITCHEN

As Jack comes into the kitchen, he finds Frank searching

through a cabinet.  He watches for a moment.

Frank turns quickly, surprised.

Oh ... I was just hoping for something to drink.  But

it seems the old lady was dry. Not even a bottle of

cooking sherry.

Jack nods.  Frank looks nervous.

Frank nods.  Silence.

Jack glances around the room.  Pictures on the walls.

Handmade curtains, lightly faded.

Frank smiles slightly and he and Jack lock eyes for a

moment.

Jack hesitates, then pulls a bottle out of his coat.

Frank moves to a cabinet, but there's nothing there.

Jack holds out the bottle.

Frank looks embarrassed.

Jack follows Frank back into the front room.  Frank

stands before one of the tiny matching pianos and

gestures Jack to the other.

Jack steps over to the other piano and taps, then Frank

does the same.  Jack glances up in surprise.

Jack hits the note again and nods in amazement.

Frank looks down at the keys and his smile fades.

Suddenly he notices the collection of tiny souvenir shot

glasses on top of the piano, each bearing the name of a

different hotel.

Frank blows some dust off the glasses.

Jack pours and he and Frank settle on the tiny piano

benches.  As Frank swallows, he winces.

It suddenly grows silent, each sitting in his old

familiar place, staring into his glass.

Jack smiles slightly, then both go back to their glasses.

Jack and Frank lock eyes again.

Frank's glance drops to Jack's glass.

Jack and Frank glance at one another, little boy

mischief glowing in their faces.  Suddenly they swivel

on the pianos and begin to play "You're Sixteen."

As Jack and Frank finish, they're laughing.  After a

moment, their voices die and the house is quiet again.

Full of ghosts.  Each stares at the tiny keyboard before

him, awkward with the intimacy of the moment.  It is

quiet for a very long time.  Finally, Frank looks over.

Jack glances up and sees Frank has his empty glass

held out.  He hesitates, then picks up the bottle.

