FADE INTO:

SEPIA-TONE FOOTAGE

of a pig chasing a lion chasing a dinosaur chasing an

elephant.  Noah's Ark going round... and round... and

round...

EXT. GRIFFITH PARK CAROUSEL - DAY

Disjointed CALLIOPE MUSIC as the wheel of fate and

fortune goes around until we PULL BACK to reveal:

JON ARCHER (30) rising winged Pegasus.  On the adjacent

unicorn is his son MATTHEW (5).  Clutching a balloon,

Matty waves at his dad.  A happy moment, like so many

certain to follow -- until we realize we are watching

them THROUGH...

SNIPER'S RIFLE SCOPE - SNIPER'S EYES

wait until the child clears his aim -- Archer is the

target.  They round the bend and disappear...

MATTHEW

Loses his grip on the unicorn.  Archer reaches over and

pulls him into his lap.  They happily ride together...

As the horses sweep back INTO VIEW... exposing Archer...

Now we see the sniper.  CASTOR TROY is cool, efficient,

aggressive, sexual.  His finger closes around the

trigger.

BOOM!  A BULLET RIPS into Archer's back.  Bleeding... he

drops off his horse... and sinks to the deck of the

carousel.  His eyes desperately searching... searching...

searching... until he sees --

Matthew lies on his back -- still.  Slowly, Archer

reaches out and takes Matthew's hand... and now we see

COLOR for the first time...

Blood red... as bleeding father touches bleeding son...

TILT UP TO the winged Pegasus flying by -- now in full

color and UP UP UP TO Matthew's red balloon... floating

away.

HANDEL'S MESSIAH OVER a SERIES OF SHOTS:

FBI BRIEFING ROOM

Gazing out the window as dawn breaks over the city below

is Jon Archer... older... unshaven... fatigued... his

eyes reveal a man in the grip of obsession.

CAROUSEL HORSE

sweeps by, as if marking time itself...

HOLY PLACE

Smoky, spiritual... dominated by a gleaming, golden

cross.  A priest kneels before it -- deep in prayer.  The

glimmering cross comes INTO FOCUS... but it's just a

light-reflection... off the casing of a large bomb.  This

is no chapel... but an atrium.  Somewhere.

And as the "priest" rubs out his cigarette we see it's

Castor Troy -- carefully installing this complex device.

ANOTHER CAROUSEL HORSE

sweeps by...

ARCHER

pockets his FBI badge, then holsters his gun...

CASTOR

sets the bomb timer -- then replaces a wall panel in

front of it.  Totally hidden.

BRIEFING ROOM - CASTOR'S MUGSHOT

is on a computer screen.  His criminal dossier scrolls by

endlessly:  bombings, assassinations, mercenary

kidnappings, terrorism-for-hire...

Rookie agent LOOMIS studies the details carefully.  Other

agents -- including BUZZ and WANDA scan computer grid-

maps, man phones, etc. amid the take-out cartons and

coffee cups.  These people are on high alert.

A silence descends on the chastised team.  As they go

back to work, veteran agent TITO BIONDI takes Archer

aside.

Archer considers his best friend's advice -- then...

Archer marches out -- slamming the door behind him.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY (MORNING)

Castor quietly shuts the security door behind him.  An

Hispanic voice startles him.

Realizing the JANITOR is already too suspicious, Castor

puts a priestly arm around him -- and leads him down the

hall.

The Janitor suddenly twitches, his eyes rolls up in his

head.  As he gasps his last -- Castor heaves him down a

stairwell.  Now we see the needle-thin custom stiletto in

Castor's hand.

Castor kicks the Janitor's mop and bucket down the stairs

-- making everything look like an accident.

INT. SAME BUILDING - MAIN FLOOR - DAY (MORNING)

The children's church choir -- 200 strong -- sing "Behold

the Lamb of God."  Clergy and lay persons listen

reverently.

"Father" Castor strolls by the singers -- casually

heading for the exit.  As he passes the risers, a teenage

girl drops her sheet music at his feet.

Returning it -- he whispers in her ear -- so close he's

practically licking it.

He pats her behind and leaves.  Although a little shaken,

she's also drawn by Castor's sexual magnetism.

EXT. LA CONVENTION CENTER - DAY (MORNING)

The marquee proclaims:  INTERNATIONAL CHURCH CHOIRS 18th-

21st:  AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION.

Castor exits -- politely holding the door for a beat cop.

INT. ARCHER'S OFFICE - DAY (MORNING)

The office is a monument to obsession:  photographs,

clues, newsclips, totems of Castor Troy surround a pacing

Archer.

The instant Archer hangs up -- the INTERCOM BUZZES.

As Archer punches up line two -- Tito bursts in.

They rush our... the hold button on line 1 still

blinking.

EXT. PRIVATE AIRPORT - ESTABLISHING - DAY

A sleek Cadillac pulls in... stopping next to a Land

Rover.

LARS MUELLER -- a muscular, crystal-eyed jar-head -- gets

out of the Caddy.  An instant later -- LUNT MUELLER --

emerges from the Rover.  They are identical twins.

The men scan the airport carefully, then open the rear

doors of their respective vehicles.  Castor emerges from

the Caddy -- Armani clad.

Exiting the Rover is Castor's younger brother POLLUX TROY

-- skittish, brilliant, paranoid -- a human hummingbird.

Castor hugs Pollux lovingly.  Pollux squirms like a kid.

Pollux heads for the jet.  Castor hands Lunt a wad of

cash.

The twins nod... then take off.  Castor heads for the

jet.

INT. JET - DAY

Castor hustles in -- exhorting the PILOT.

As the JET TURBINES start to WHINE, Castor sinks into his

seat.  A very sexy FLIGHT ATTENDANT appears and hands him

a Scotch.  He downs it, looking her over salaciously.

She smiles, not minding, until the jet suddenly slows its

taxi down the runway.

COCKPIT

Castor yanks open the door.

AT END OF RUNWAY

A squat car creeps INTO VIEW -- blocking the runway.

EXT./INT. HUMVEE - MOVING - DAY

Behind the wheel is Jon Archer.  Beside him is Tito.

BACK TO ARCHER

Suddenly the gun is BLASTED from Castor's hand.  he turns

around to see... the Flight Attendant behind them --

holding a smoking pistol.  This is Agent WINTERS.

But Castor elbows the throttle up.  The jet lurches

forward, throwing Winters off balance.  Pollux tackles

her as the jet picks up speed.

INT. HUMVEE - DAY

Archer slams the vehicle into gear.

Tito obeys as Archer peels out.  The HUMMER ROARS at the

jet.

The jet picks up speed, trying to get aloft.

The humvee is aimed right at it... Archer's eyes narrow.

COLLISION COURSE

as two hunks of metal bear down.  The machines are

seconds apart when --

Archer looks up to see...

Winters' face pressed up against the cockpit window,

Castor holding a gun to her head.

Archer cuts the wheel -- just avoiding the jet.  The

Hummer skids to a stop as Federal back-up arrives -- but

too late.  Archer watches an FBI chopper -- landing in a

swirl of dust.

As the jet picks up speed... the hatch opens.  Castor

blasts Winters in the side and tosses her onto the

tarmac.

INSIDE

Castor smiles at Pollux, sensing freedom, until...

KA-CHUNK:  Something POUNDS the jet -- from above.

Castor leans out the hatch and sees...

The chopper on top of them -- Archer at the controls.

Eye-contact -- years of hatred pass between these men.

Castor BLASTS at him from the open hatch.

The chopper's left windscreen spiderwebs.  Archer jerks

and weaves -- dodging the BULLETS.  The chopper pulls

away.

The jet finally lifts off... when...

The chopper settles on the jet -- slamming at its tail.

TARMAC

Tito reacts to this madness -- as the chopper plays a

deadly game of leap-frog with the jet.

The end of the runway is coming up fast.

Archer crushes the jet's horizontal elevator flap.

JET PILOT

can't budge the jet's jammed yoke.  Thwarted, he powers

back the throttle.  Thrust reverse.

CASTOR

SHOOTS the Pilot -- then takes the controls.  He

struggles to maneuver the jet.  Suddenly...

A biplane descends right at them -- about to land.

ARCHER

pulls up just as the JET swerves radically to avoid the

biplane and SLAMS into the hangar.

JET

plows through the GLASS DOOR, the NOSE-WHEEL SNAPS off.

The PLANE SKIDS right into the hangar -- finally stopping

at the wings.

FBI CHOPPER

lands.  Archer steps out calmly -- like a cop about to

write a traffic ticket.  He hurries to join more FBI

agents rushing into the hangar ahead of him.

INT. HANGAR - DAY

The jet hatch pops open -- Castor leaps from it, FIRING.

Two FBI agents drop -- riddled.

Pollux appears at the hatch -- an FBI sharpshooter FIRES,

grazing Pollux's shoulder.  Staggered, Pollux falls --

Castor catches him before he hits the floor --

simultaneously BLASTING the sharpshooter.

Castor drags Pollux back into the smoke-filled hangar.

Archer arrives and quickly checks the dead agents, his

anger building.  He signals Tito and the others to spread

out.

DEEP IN HANGAR

A maze of airplane debris and heavy machinery.  Led by

Archer, the FBI agents pick their way through it.

ROOKIE LOOMIS snaps alert -- did he see something?

Advancing carefully, he comes up on...

Castor -- staunching Pollux's shoulder wound.  Pollux

sees the agent -- and FIRES.

Loomis hits the floor -- his bleeding ear is shredded.

Suddenly a forklift charges down on Castor and Pollux.

Tito is at the wheel.  Castor FIRES -- forcing Tito to

dive off.  The forklift careens on -- driving apart the

brothers.

The forklift upends a stack of heavy crates -- pinning

Pollux.  Castor tries to free his trapped brother.

He slaps his Glock into Pollux's hand.

Pollux starts FIRING -- covering Castor as he runs

through a tunnel which leads to an adjoining hangar.

Suddenly Wanda presses her machine-pistol into Pollux's

head.  As Pollux raises his gun -- Tito grabs his hand.

Archer moves away from the group and enters the tunnel.

MUSIC as Archer and Castor begin their cat-and-mouse

dance.

Sensing Archer, Castor pauses by an old landing gear.  He

draws a fresh pistol from his ankle holster and moves on.

Archer pauses at the landing gear... his own stealthy

movements mirroring Castor's.

Castor waits behind a stack of steel drums... his gaze

trying to penetrate the darkness... He SNAPS his fingers.

The sound ECHOES as he tries to draw Archer in.

Archer reacts to the sound and SNAPS back -- answering

the challenge.  As the deadly beat between them

continues --

BLAM BLAM BLAM!  Archer spins away just as Castor OPENS

FIRE from the gloom... one step ahead.

INTERCUT as necessary:

BOOM BOOM BOOM!  Half-blind SHOTS send Castor spinning.

A moment later, Archer pursues... SNAP!  He fits a new

CLIP into his pistol.

Enraged, Archer steps boldly forward -- trying to draw

his enemy out.  Silence -- then Archer senses...

Castor is behind him.  He FIRES -- Archer dives away.

The BARRAGE CONTINUES -- driving Archer back between two

huge turbine engines.  As Archer reloads, he stares at

the control panel switches.

Castor moves in for the kill when he hears a final SNAP-

SNAP.  Except it isn't a finger snap... it's two

switches.

VRRRROOOM!  The TWIN ENGINES ROAR on!  Unable to fight

the churning tornado-force wind... Castor's blasted

across the hangar... slamming hard into the far wall.

The ENGINES STOP and Archer emerges -- joined by Tito.

Then Tito follows Archer's gaze to Castor's lifeless

body.  Still as death -- somehow his mocking smile

survives.

EXT. AIRPORT TARMAC - SUNSET

Heavily-manacled, an extremely agitated Pollux is herded

into a SWAT van by Buzz and Wanda.

The van takes off -- passing an imposing older man,

flanked by two bodyguards.  Bullying through the media,

Assistant FBI Director VICTOR LAZARRO scans the

devastation.

Approaching Archer, he watches as Castor's body is loaded

on the ambulance.  A sheet covers Castor's lifeless face.

Archer contemplates the slain agents -- their three

bodies laid out in a row -- waiting to be zip-locked.

Lazarro reacts grimly as a reporter snaps a photo of the

bodies.

Instinctively, the two men close ranks.  Archer grabs the

Nikon, ejects the film, then shoves the camera back.

Lazarro puts a caring arm around Archer's shoulder and

leads him away from the media... and the carnage.

EXT.  ARCHER'S HOME (SANTA MONICA) - SUNSET

A renovated Craftsman.  Sipping a carton of milk, Archer

pulls into the driveway.  He sits, gathering his

thoughts.

INT. ARCHER'S HOME - NIGHT

Archer enters and sees his wife EVE.  Handsome,

intelligent.

She nods toward the KITCHEN.  JAMIE is there -- a sullen

and hard fifteen-year-old.  There are cigarette cartons

on the table.

Archer marches into the kitchen -- noting the crate of

Marlboros.  Jamie matter-of-factly pours herself coffee.

Archer looks to Eve for help.  Eve shakes her head --

nope.

She bolts.  In anticipation, Eve calmly opens the door as

Jamie rushes out, then closes it behind her.

Eve kisses his cheek -- then gathers up her doctor gear.

Something in Archer's expression makes her stop.

But he's too overcome.  He starts to speak -- but can't.

Emotions avalanche across his face until he finally looks

up.  Eve pulls him close -- a sheltering embrace for them

both.

INT. ARCHER HOME - NIGHT

Freshly dressed, Archer heads down the hall.  He pauses

at the door to Jamie's room when he sees -- Jamie.

Fully clothed, she's fast asleep on her bed cluttered

with clothes and assorted girl-stuff.  Her face peaceful.

Archer looks around her room... sees the stuffed animals

collecting dust... replaced by makeup, jewelry, beefcake

Calvin Klein ads and band posters, etc.

Archer's startled to see a lacey bustier... his little

girl is growing up fast.  And he's missing it.

He pulls the blanket up over her and quietly slips out.

The instant he leaves, Jamie kicks the blankets off.

INT. FBI BUILDING - DAY

Dominated by the FBI seal.  Archer steps to the check

point.

Archer presses his thumb to a scan-pad -- and is cleared.

INT.  BULL PEN - DAY

Efficient as a beehive -- agents, cryptologists, support

staff buzz at their routines.  Archer strides through --

drawing congratulatory nods and "thumbs up" signs...

OUTSIDE HIS OFFICE

Archer's team is there.  Applauding.  Proud.  Uneasy with

plaudits, he disperses the disappointed agents.

Archer's well-built secretary -- KIM BREWSTER -- hands

him his messages.  She's holding a bottle of Dom

Perignon.

He enters his office.  Kimberly sighs and turns to Wanda.

INT. ARCHER'S OFFICE - DAY

Sitting at his computer -- Archer scrolls through

Castor's file.  He grimly contemplates face-after-face of

Troy's victims -- finally pausing on a photo of his son

Matthew.

Burying his feeling, he types "CASE CLOSED" over

Castor's image.  Archer starts to press "enter" when Tito

comes in.

Big NED BRODIE and athletic female HOLLIS MILLER stroll

in.

Archer accedes as Miller pops in the disk.  The computer

screen displays a CAD schematic of the bomb.  Archer

studies it carefully -- unease growing.

INTERROGATION FOOTAGE

Wired to a complex machine -- Pollux seems to have his

frustrated interrogators on the run.

INT. ARCHER'S OFFICE - DAY

Archer, Lazarro, Tito, Brodie, Miller and other FBI

officials watch the monitor.  Pollux remains implacable

Lazarro shuts down the monitor... turns to Archer.

Archer looks at the gathered brass.  He knows it's

hopeless.

EXT. FBI BUILDING - INTELLIGENCE MEMORIAL - DAY

Words etched in the granite wall read:

Archer watches as a workman engraves the last of the

three new stars among so many others -- each one honoring

the dead.

Brodie and Miller exchange a knowing look.

FULL SCREEN - CASTOR'S BODY

Tubes and hoses are plugged into every orifice.

INT. ICU ROOM - DAY

Archer stares at the body... he can't believe it.

Miller grinds out her cigarette on Castor's leg.  Of

course, Castor just lies there like a vegetable.

Archer turns as DR. MALCOLM HOAG (50s) enters the room.

INT. HOAG'S SURGICAL BAY - DAY

Loomis lies still as a surgeon carefully scrapes away

charred flesh around his burned ear.  The doctor turns to

a --

STEREO-LITHOGRAPHIC MACHINE

Laser-beams attack an organic soup with incredible

precision.  The light forces a chemical reaction -- and

out of the soup -- an ear begins to form.  It rises from

the liquid, now fully-formed.  The surgeon takes the ear

and fits it in place on Loomis's head.  He starts

suturing.

OBSERVATION BOOTH - ABOVE

Archer, Hoag, Brodie and Miller watch the operation --

video-enhanced by the two huge screens on the far walls.

Hoag holds up a face-sized organic shell made up of

yellow cartilage pieces and tendons, etc.  Archer pulls

it over his face -- like a gauze mask.  A "tendon" falls

off.

Archer turns the shell over and over and over in his

hands.

Archer shoves the template back at Hoag.

Archer pushes his way past them -- and marches out.

INT. INTERROGATION BOOTHS - DAY

Archer enters... sizes up DIETRICH HASSLER.  His stylish

garb doesn't completely hide his criminal roots.  Archer

sits down calmly.  He looks at his watch.

Archer topples the wooden table and tears a leg from the

top.  Brandishing it -- he stalks the startled thug.

HALLWAY JUST OUTSIDE - CONTINUOUS ACTION

Lazarro blanches as an obsessed Archer repeatedly slams

the table leg against the wall -- above Dietrich's head.

But as Lazarro leaves -- we see Tito's worried, too.

BACK INSIDE BOOTH

Archer has a terrified Dietrich backed into the corner.

INT. CORRIDOR - OUTSIDE INTERROGATION BOOTHS - SAME TIME

Archer emerges... eyes blazing.

In another booth, a careworn but striking woman sits with

a little boy on her lap.  She gently helps him Crayola a

book.  This is SASHA HASSLER (30) and her son ADAM (5).

INT. INTERROGATION BOOTH - DAY

Archer hovers over Sasha -- her maternal warmth replaced

by an icy hatred.  Tito and the child are gone.

Sasha's eyes flash, her body coils -- but she keeps

control.

She stares at him with equal amounts of pity and hatred.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Archer watches as Adam leaves Dietrich and jumps into

Sasha's arms.  She hugs him protectively.  Adam sees

Archer watching them -- and smiles.  Archer doesn't smile

back.

FULL SCREEN - CASTOR'S REAL FACE

PULL BACK TO:

INT. I.C.U. - NIGHT

Archer slowly circles Castor's muscular, hairy, tattooed

body.  Although on life support -- his signature smirk

remains.

Archer's face shows he doesn't like it -- then he nods.

EXT. ARCHER HOME - NIGHT

Archer slowly gets out of his car.  Trudging toward the

front door, he picks up a basketball and takes a shot.

His form is terrible -- he misses by a mile.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Archer passes Jamie's room.  Loud MUSIC POUNDS from

within.  He pauses to knock, thinks again, then heads

down the hall.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Eve is in bed.  Archer comes in quietly and sits beside

her -- studying her peaceful, sleeping face.  She stirs.

They kiss affectionately.  Passion building, Eve runs her

hands over his body -- until her fingers touch a round

scar on his chest.  Archer freezes -- mid-caress.

No response.  The pain hidden in his silence chills Eve.

He starts to say the words.  He wants, needs to share the

truth with her.  But he can't.  Instead --

Fury erupting, Eve pushes Archer out of the bed.

INT. ANOTHER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Archer enters a child's room -- neat and tidy, like a

museum exhibit.  A starfield of glow-letters twinkles

faintly.

He lies down on the bed and toys with his wedding band --

staring up at the words the stars form... "MATTHEW."

INT. CONVENTION CENTER - MACHINE ROOM - BLINKING

LIGHTS - NIGHT

The blinking LED of the bomb timer continues to count

down.

INT./EXT. '56 BUICK/MOUNTAIN ROAD - MOVING - DAY

Tito drives into the Hoag compound.

Archer's beside him, juggling Castor's dossier:

documents, photos, etc.

Archer says nothing... it's too late for debate.  Tito

parks.  The men get out and head for the lab.

Archer reaches for the door -- Tito stops him.

Archer considers his friend's words... He toys with, then

removes, his wedding bang.

As Tito takes the ring -- a caring, but concerned look

passes between the two friends.

INT. SURGICAL BAY - DAY

Two huge video screens are dominated by the CG-images of

Archer and Castor.  As Hoag briefs the team, the CG-

images glow to reflect the physical characteristic Hoag

refers to.

From the observation booth above -- Miller (flanked by

Tito and Brodie) raises his eyebrow.

On the video screens, the images morph to signify the

physical augmentations.

Hoag eyes Castor's inert, tight body -- then turns to

Archer -- prodding his love handles like a livestock

inspector.

TRANSFORMATION MONTAGE

(INTERCUT huge video screen enlargements of Archer and

Castor's body parts as necessary):

Globules of adipose tissue are siphoned off Archer's

obliques.  At the same time...

Hoag recreates the "Great Sphinx" tattoo on Archer's

thigh.  We PUSH IN ON his leg, then PULL BACK to

reveal...

Archer and Tito.  The CLOSE UP on his leg becomes a FULL

SHOT as he walks across the rooftop -- like himself.

Tito demonstrated the proper "Castor gait": dangerously

casual, like a panther.

Hoag reproduces Castor's fingerprints... then layers them

over Archer's fingers.

Archer practices Castor's icy, killer glare.  Tito hands

him a lit cigarette.  Archer brings the cigarette to his

lips -- then coughs harshly.  But he keeps trying.

Castor smiles... then smirks and laughs.  PULL BACK to

reveal Archer studying surveillance footage of Castor on

a monitor-screen -- mimicking him.

Archer fusses with his new hair, trying to cover the thin

spots.  Giving  up, he zips up his sweatshirt -- getting

the zipper caught in his new chest hair.

EXT. HOAG INSTITUTE - GROUNDS - DAY

Tito tosses a pistol.  Archer catches it with his right

hand.  But to Archer's surprise, Tito frowns.

He takes the pistol away -- and slaps it in Archer's left

hand.  Then Tito shoves him -- challengingly.

Tito pulls the gun against his own forehead.

Archer holds the gun unsteadily.  Tito is disgusted.

BOOM!  The GUN goes off -- the slug tears past Tito's

head.  Shocked, he touches his left ear, making sure it's

still there.

Then Tito looks at Archer -- and sees the determination.

EXT. HOAG'S FACILITY - NIGHT

Clear and calm.  God's night.  Someone's God anyway.

INT. I.C.U. ROOM - NIGHT

Hoag leads Archer to a full-length mirror.

Archer removes the robe.  He's amazed to see:

His own head on Castor's body:  a flat stomach, hairy

chest, tattoos, thinning hair, etc.  Hoag touches

Archer's scar.

INT. SURGICAL BAY - NIGHT

Unconscious, Archer is wheeled into the surgical bay,

Castor beside him.  Hoag turns to the video technician.

Hoag lowers an aerated Plexiglas mask over Archer's face.

Interwoven with integrated laser circuitry -- this Derma-

Induction-Device (D.I.D.) attaches via suction.

Hoag sights through the optical memory, squeezes the

trigger.  A cobalt beam cuts around the face -- cleanly

slicing it.  Then Hoag lifts Archer's face -- off of his

skull.

Brodie and Miller watch from above.  Tito stumbles into

the nearby bathroom to throw up.

Hoag inspects Archer's face, then turns to his nurse.

Hoag turns to perform the same procedure on Castor.

Castor's consistent EEG reading suddenly spikes

radically -- for a moment, it almost seems to stabilize.

Hoag glances over -- too late -- the spikes have

disappeared.

But the CAMERA CLOSES IN ON Castor's ear -- and we sense

that, somehow, his auditory nerves might be functioning.

INT. RECOVERY ROOM - DAY

A head swathed in gauze.  The bandages start to fall

away.

Tito, Miller and Brodie wait as Hoag removes the gauze.

The patient looks into a mirror.

Jon Archer has become Castor Troy.

he touches his new face.  Archer stares... the cold

reality chilling his blood.

Archer buckles -- unprepared emotionally for what he's

done to himself.  For a moment, he seems to teeter on

madness.

Archer can't respond... he's somewhere the others can't

comprehend.  Finally he emerges... shaken, but in

control.

TITO enters.  Instinctively, he grabs for his holster.

Hoag SWITCHES ON an AUDIO TAPE.  Archer repeats Castor's

words as Hoag adjusts the chip with a wavelength box.

After a few repetitions, Archer's voice matches

perfectly.

Archer yawns, squints and furrows his brow -- testing

every muscle.  He stares into the mirror -- into the eyes

of his most hated enemy -- now his eyes.  Archer slowly

turns to...

Castor.  Motionless, swathed, dead to the world -- but

something about Castor's smile -- that mocking smile...

EXT. FBI HELIPORT - DAY

Armed agents take their positions around a helipad.  A

jet-black helicopter drops from the sky like an angry

wasp.

EXT. HELIPAD - DAY

As Lazarro watches -- Tito escorts out a heavily-manacled

"Castor."  Two armed agents leap from the chopper and

take charge of "Castor."  He follows them pliantly,

until --

Archer gets the message.  He starts to resist the agents

and must be muscled into the chopper.  He's manacled

down.

Eye contact between Archer and Tito -- both aware of this

very real point of departure.  The CHOPPER DOOR SLAMS

SHUT.  It lifts off like a twister and SCREAMS away.

EXT. HELIPORT - STAGING AREA - DAY

The watching team breaks up, wanders back to work.

They pass Brodie and Miller, who watch the chopper

disappear over the horizon.  So far so good.

INT. CHOPPER - FLYING - DAY

The agent re-checks Archer's chains.

The agent smashes his elbow into Archer's gut.  The

second agent presses an INJECTOR against Archer's leg.

PSSSST.  Archer spasms against the drug -- then sags

unconscious.

INT. EREWHON PRISON - DELOUSING CUBICLE

Archer wakes up as a torrent of delousing spray hits him.

A guard holds a water cannon on the newest inmate.

Archer lies gasping on the steel floor, protecting his

face.  The spray stops -- when head guard "RED" WALTON

enters.

Archer's face reflects the degradation as he bends over

and exposes all to the cavity-searching Guard.

Satisfied, Walton lets Archer dress.  Another guard

places a pair of odd-looking steel boots before Archer.

Archer inspects the lock-down boots.  Hinged steel

collars hook over the shoe and encase the ankle.  The

soles are gridded steel with magnetic inserts.

Archer obeys.  A guard squats down and locks the steel

collars over Archer's shoes.  He tries to move -- but

can't.

Walton JOLTS Archer with his HIGH-VOLTAGE SHOCK-STICK.

Walton presses his thumb into a standard FBI scan-pad.

It forms a print -- positively identifying the guard.

The heavy blast-door automatically opens.

Walton prods Archer toward the door.  To Archer's

surprise -- he can now move.

INT. GENERAL POPULATION - DAY

The inmates eat.  Silence descends as Archer enters --

intensifying the constant HUMMING of the MAGNETIC FIELD.

Huge Dubov does a slow burn on seeing "Castor."

Scanning the room for Pollux -- Archer takes a seat next

to a LITTLE, GOATEED MAN with a French accent.

Archer sees the other inmates sizing him up.

Voisine shakes his head "no" -- then his eyes widen as...

WHAM.  Dubov leaps onto Archer and starts pummeling him.

They slide across the table -- spilling everyone's lunch.

Walton watches as Dubov throws Archer across the room.

Archer staggers to his feet -- and sees the encircling

inmates and guards looking at him -- unimpressed.

Especially his "brother" Pollux -- who watches

uncertainly.

Dubov attacks again -- but Archer is ready.  He grabs

Dubov's fist -- just before it hits his face.

Holding Dubov's fist firmly, Archer kicks Dubov

repeatedly in the groin.  Metal boot meeting soft flesh.

Dubov staggers back -- hurt.  Archer moves in for the

kill, savoring it.

Walton looks skyward.

INTERCUT WITH:

UP ABOVE - CENTRAL SECURITY

The prison's nerve center -- with video-feeds and

monitors designed to keep problems and privacy to a

minimum.

The two deputies react to Walton's call.  Identifying

Archer and Dubov's signature-blips -- they throw the

appropriate switches and...

ZAP!  The magnetic boots lock both inmates to the floor.

Dubov flails hopelessly -- but Archer's just out of

reach.

Crack!  Walton punches Archer in the diaphragm.

Walton smashes Archer harder -- he hits the floor.

His statement is so ludicrous, Walton laughs.  Everyone

does.  From the inmates' reactions, Archer knows he's

been accepted.

As Archer drops into the line of cons -- he spots Pollux

waiting for him.  Girding himself for this first

encounter -- he's got a plan.

Archer stares -- feigning confusion until Walton prods

him forward.  Pollux watches his "brother" go -- very

concerned.

INT. ARCHER'S CELL - NIGHT

Archer lies on his cot -- staring at the ceiling.

Isolated, lonely, he realizes how easy it would be to go

insane here.

EXT. HOAG INSTITUTE - NIGHT

An insanely starry night.  Van Gogh's night.  The night

he cut off his ear, anyway.

INT. SURGICAL BAY - NIGHT

Castor's body lies inert.  His life-support MACHINES

BLIPPING away.  Until the EEG spikes.  Once -- twice --

three times.  Brain wave activity increases -- and

stabilizes.

Castor's fingers twitch.  Then his fist clenches -- hard.

Castor's head is swathed in gauze.  But his eyes pop

open.

Reflexively, Castor wrenches from the bed -- tearing out

the tubes and wires that tether him to life support.  He

goes down -- in agony -- groaning.

He struggles to his feet -- staggering through the lab --

until he catches the reflection of his bandaged face in

the window.  He quickly unwraps the gauze.

The discarded bandages fall at his feet... we don't see

what CASTOR sees -- but we hear him MOAN... then CHOKE...

then SCREAM -- the only moment Castor ever loses his

cool.

Finally composing himself -- Castor's hand grips the

phone and he dials.

EXT. HOAG INSTITUTE - NIGHT (LATER)

A RANGE ROVER SCREECHES up.  At gunpoint, Lars and Lunt

manhandle Hoag into the lab.

INT. SURGICAL BAY - NIGHT

Lars and Lunt hustle Hoag in.  The lab is on.  The

screens run -- scrolling through the video log of

Archer's surgery.

Hoag sees his terrified assistants -- bound with duct

tape.

Lars shoves Hoag into a towering figure... we ZOOM IN ON

Hoag's glasses.  And THROUGH the REFLECTION we see...

MAN WITHOUT FACE

Hoag reacts in horror at the raw muscle, cartilage and

bone.  The man lifts a cigarette to his lips... then

exhales.

INT. PRISON - POPULATION - DAY

A huge wall-screen plays gentle nature scenes.  Below --

the inmates engage in their exercise hour.

Voisine stares at the screen -- while Pollux carefully

watches his "brother" play basketball.  Archer tosses up

an air-ball to the jeers of other inmates.

Pollux trots over to Archer -- passes him his cigarette.

He studies Archer as he takes a drag -- and nearly gags.

Pollux has caught Archer reflexively tugging at his

phantom wedding ring.  Archer immediately stops.  He

takes a drag and holds it -- then exhales right in

Pollux's face.

Pollux sticks his finger under Archer's eye and pulls

down like a vet examining a sick dog.  Archer pushes him

off.

Pollux contemplates the other inmates -- circling, sizing

up the brothers like hungry sharks.  Instinctively,

Pollux moves closer to Archer for protection.

Pollux nods grimly -- then Archer pulls up his sleeve,

exposing the pyramid tattoo.

Archer feigns a "struggle" with his memory.  He lights a

new butt with the old -- chain-style... then "remembers."

Pollux curls into Archer -- in need of comfort.  Archer

puts an affectionate arm around Pollux -- springing the

trap.

Pollux beams with pride -- Archer hangs on every word.

Then Archer smiles -- like Jon Archer.  Without knowing

exactly why -- a wave of ill-ease overtakes Pollux.

INT. ARCHER'S CELL - DAY

Archer paces impatiently... as the door rolls open.

Walton is looking at him with cool respect.

Archer smiles to himself -- pleased at Brodie's

timeliness.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Archer's boots lock down -- as the guillotine door rises.

But his confidence evaporates into unspeakable horror.

Because he finds himself staring into the blue eyes of --

Jon Archer.  This man has Archer's face -- his real face.

Archer studies the image of his former self -- trying to

understand.  Then he recognizes the smirk on the face,

the mocking twinkle in the eyes and he says what he

cannot say...

Continuing to circle, he displays the current LA Times:

FLASH ON Hoag's body -- on the floor of the burning lab.

Two more burned bodies adjoin Hoag's.

FLASH ON Brodie and Miller -- dead in a mangled car

wreck.

FLASH ON Tito... he smiles, then recoils in shock as

Castor lifts a pistol and shoots him... then he picks up

Archer's wedding band off the counter...

INT. EREWHON PRISON (PRESENT)

Archer stares -- thunderstruck -- at the wedding band now

on Castor's finger.

Archer freaks out.  He screams, flails -- unable to reach

Castor.  Castor opens the door and guards rush in --

clubbing Archer and shocking him senseless.

INT. CELL BLOCK - DAY

The guards dump Archer into his cell.

The steel panels shut - silencing Archer's pleading

voice.

INT. ARCHER'S CAR - MOVING - DAY

Sipping a beer, Castor cruises past the suburban bliss:

men on hammocks; women chatting; kids playing tag.

Castor tries to catch a street address and rolls past...

ARCHER'S HOUSE

Dressed for work, Eve watches blandly as the car goes by.

A moment later, it backs up and parks.

Hiding the beer can, Castor forces a sheepish smile --

and gets out.  She doesn't smile back.

Castor looks her over -- she's much sexier than he

expected.

Then he spots her medical bag.  Oops.

Castor kisses her good-bye -- on the mouth.

Castor reacts as she gets in the car and pulls out.

INT. ARCHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Castor steps inside, looks around.

INT. STUDY - DAY

Castor sifts through Christmas cards from holidays past,

studying the ones with photos.  He's memorizing --

matching names to faces -- Wanda's, Buzz's, Lazarro's,

etc.

Something else catches his eye.  He finds a floral

notebook -- Eve's diary -- and pages through it.  Then,

he reads:

Castor hears a voice.  Glancing across the hall, he

sees...

GLIMPSES OF JAMIE

As she walks back and forth in her room, talking on the

phone -- and wearing only panties and a cropped T-shirt.

Castor steps closer -- enjoying the view.

INT. JAMIE'S ROOM - DAY

Jamie stamps out her cigarette.

She slams it -- but he gets his foot inside.

Castor pushes menacingly into the room.

Castor spots her correct name embroidered on a pillow.

He gazes seductively -- unnerving Jamie as he steps

toward her.

He reaches for her -- and right past her.  He picks up a

pack of cigarettes from the desk.

Jamie stares, astonished, as Castor goes out.

INT. EREWHON PRISON - ARCHER'S CELL

Fists bloody, voice hoarse, Archer pounds at the cell

door.  Exhausted, he finally stops -- staring at the face

of his enemy in the mirrored door -- the enemy who now

has total command of his life.

INT. FBI - LOBBY CHECKPOINT - DAY

Castor dons his stern "Archer" face as the gate guard

checks his thumbprint ID.  He's cleared and waved in.

INT. FBI INTERROGATION BOOTH - DAY

Buzz and Wanda watch Pollux through the two-way mirror.

He's gorging himself on a big lunch.  Castor arrives.

Buzz and Wanda exchange a glance.  To them, "Archer" is

just avoiding his feelings again.

Lazarro stomps toward them... furious.  Buzz and Wanda

quickly excuse themselves.

Lazarro stomps off.  Castor watches him go, wheels

turning.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Castor enters -- shutting down the mikes... and the

blinds.

Pollux listens carefully -- mind clicking like an abacus.

EXT. CONVENTION CENTER - DAY

Police VEHICLES ROAR into position.  Squads of police

evacuate throngs of people.

INT. CONVENTION CENTER - SUB-BASEMENT - EXTREME

CLOSEUP - BOMB TIMER - DAY

TICKS down to less than two minutes.

Working as a unit, the BOMB SQUAD carefully remove the

bomb's casing.  Inside, the complex guts glow evilly.

The men are tense, cautious -- and way out of their

league.

Castor pushes up his blast visor.  He looks grim.

The bomb squad hustles out.  Waiting until he's alone,

Castor pulls a radio device from his pocket and hits its

switch.  The bomb's glow dies instantly.

EXTREME CLOSEUP - TIMER

stops at 26 seconds.

BACK TO SCENE

Not satisfied, Castor starts it up again -- running the

timer down to four seconds.  That's better.

INT. EREWHON PRISON - "POPULATION" - DAY

The inmates eat lunch.  Walton enters -- prodding a

beaten Jon Archer ahead of him.

Jeers from the inmates as the big screen changes from the

nature loop to... CNN.

ON SCREEN - CONVENTION CENTER

"Sweating," Castor lumbers out, carrying the disarmed

bomb.

EXT. CONVENTION CENTER - DAY

Castor basks in the attention of the gathered media.

INT. EREWHON PRISON - POPULATION

Watching the TV, Archer's enraged, frustrated.  Then his

eyes focus... he watches closely as --

A guard uses his "thumbprint ID" to get through the

security door.  Archer's eyes fall on the thumbprint scan

pad.

INT. FBI - BULLPEN - DAY

Castor gets a "thumbs up" from some co-workers, others

smile -- but they know better than to applaud.

They look at each other -- afraid.  But proud rookie

Loomis starts clapping, so everyone else joins in rousing

applause.

Wild applause... interrupted by an excited Kim.

Castor acts startled... as if at a loss.  Then he struts

toward his office -- pausing only to give Kim a playful

swat on the rump.  She's stunned.

INT. ARCHER'S OFFICE - DAY

Castor surveys his new domain.  He settles into Archer's

big leather chair... sees a framed photo of Archer and

family.  He apes Archer's dumb posed smile...

Waiting, he picks up a handbook:  You and the FBI:  A

Primer for New Employees.  Then...

Castor pumps a "whacking off" gesture with his hand.

EXT. ARCHER'S HOME - DAY

Castor, carrying grocery bags, comes into the back yard

where Jamie practices free throws.  He watches her miss.

Castor crisply sinks a free-throw.  Jamie glares, takes

the ball -- and tosses an air-ball.

Jamie sneers at him.  He buries another one.

Begrudgingly, she listens -- and sinks a clean shot.

Pleased, she nods.  HONK!  A BMW pulls into the driveway.

Jamie trots over to greet KARL (17) -- a clean-cut

preppie.  Opening the car door dor her, Karl waves,

smiling at Castor.  Castor studies Karl carefully, not

liking what he sees.

INT. ARCHER'S HOME - NIGHT

A tired Eve opens the door.  It's pitch black inside.  As

she fumbles for the light switch...

MATCH

flares as Castor lights a candle.  The dining room table

is set for a candlelight dinner.  He smiles warmly at her

confusion.

DINING ROOM - LATER

Eve looks up from her pasta.  After an awkward silence.

Eve studies him as he pours her more wine.  Her smile

slowly fades as she realizes what's going on.

Uh-oh.  Castor can't tell the color of Eve's eyes.  He

leans in "romantically" -- but we know the real reason.

He smells her hair, then her shoulders, her skin.  She's

aroused, but wary.  So Castor goes in for the kill.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Castor carries Eve into the shower and spins on the

water.

He rips her blouse open -- on her like a vulture to

carrion.  As they drop to the floor of the stall -- water

filling up around them -- Castor licks her ear and

whispers...

Dirty water runs down a floor drain... PULL BACK to:

INT. EREWHON PRISON - POPULATION - NIGHT

Desolate, Archer mops down the rec area.

Voisine gestures to a dazed inmate nearby -- WAINWRIGHT

-- who sits in a corner -- gnawing at his knuckles.

Archer sees Walton hovering nearby.  Archer heads for

him.

Crack!  Archer decks Walton.

INT. PRISON - POPULATION - NIGHT

Walton and a guard herd Archer toward a steel door.

INT. "CLINIC" - NIGHT

Archer is dumped on the floor.  He sees he's lying in a

puddle of something.  He looks up -- and recoils.

ARCHER'S POV - DUBOV

is strapped to a vertical gurney -- post-procedure.  His

limbs are stiff, his eyes blank as a mako shark's.  But

his feet are bare -- bootless.

An assistant unstraps Dubov and drops him on a gurney.

Archer cases the place:  Above is a catwalk... leading

out.

BACK TO SCENE

Walton muscles Archer into the gurney.  The Med-Tech

smirks.

The Med-Tech wheels the ECT head-gear cart into place:

twin needle-like BOLTS ready to fit into ARCHER'S ears.

A single blue static spark jumps from the bolts.

Walton roughly wedges Archer's head into the head gear,

shoving the chewed-up bite strap into Archer's mouth.

Walton unlocks Archer's first boot and pulls it off.  As

the Med-Tech starts to fasten Archer's arm -- Walton

unlocks and pulls off the second boot.

Archer's feet are free.  Crack!  He yanks his foot up

hard -- Walton reels back, stunned.

One arm still restrained, Archer backrolls in the gurney

and kicks the head-gear cart away -- knocking it into the

Med-Tech who collapses onto it, hitting "Test" --

ZAP!  The HEAD-BOLTS FIRE, catching the Med-Tech through

the shoulder -- he drops to the floor, his synapses shot.

Seeing that Archer is still restrained by the arm -- the

assistant darts out of the room.

As Archer pulls free -- Walton looms over him -- gun

poised.

Then -- wham!  Dubov wallops Walton -- using his boots as

brass knuckles.  The head guard collapses.

Dubov smiles dumbly at Archer -- all trace of vendetta

now obliterated.  Archer nods gratefully -- they're on

the same team... at least for now.

Suddenly the ALARM BLARES.

Archer sees guards charging the room.  He tries closing

the door -- but the guards arrive.  Dubov lumbers over

and puts his massive weight into it -- and slams the door

shut.

O.S., guards POUND at the now-locked door.

Archer quickly frisks Walton -- coming up with a

cigarette lighter.  he pockets it.

Scanning around -- Archer leaps onto a mounted, hinged

lamp.  it swings against the wall.  Archer uses it to

reach the catwalk above.

Dubov obeys and follows Archer up onto the catwalk.

A groggy Walton muscles open the door from inside.

Guards pour in.  Walton grabs an AUTO-RIFLE and opens

FIRE.

SLUGS chase Archer and Dubov as they flee through the

catwalk door.

INT. CENTRAL SECURITY CONTROL

Two guards watch Archer and Dubov disappear off the

clinic's monitor.  They grab their shock-sticks and rush

for the door.

The door opens -- revealing Dubov and Archer.  Perfectly

in synch -- they double cold-cock the startled guards.

Archer grabs a shock-stick -- and fuses the door shut.

He yanks out wires and shatters the computers.  Dubov

mimics the behavior -- ripping out an entire console --

and revealing a narrow cable duct.

Flames explode -- shorting the circuitry -- the DRONING

HUM RISES -- the magnetic power monitor shows a dangerous

surge.

AROUND PRISON

Chaos.  Guards scatter as the huge diamond-vision SCREEN

EXPLODES and inmates are flung like rag-dolls by their

short-circuiting boots.  Anything metallic flies into the

magnetic domes.

SECURITY CENTRAL

As the men back through the cable duct -- Archer

struggles to replace the heavy console.

The DOOR is BLOWN open.  Walton enters to find... no one.

Then his eyes light on the console -- slightly askew.

INT. CABLE CORRIDOR

Archer and Dubov rush down the tight corridor -- and

around the bend.  The corridor ends in a...

STORAGE/MAINTENANCE AREA

Lined with tools, toilets, sinks, a rack of old lock-down

boots.  They race through the far door...

INT. CENTRAL TOWER ROOM

Archer and Dubov find themselves in a multi-level

labyrinth.  A hundred feet high -- criss-crossed with

catwalks, staircases and high walls.

ECHOES resound -- SHOUTING, FOOTSTEPS GETTING CLOSER --

they seem to be coming from all around them.

Over the magnetic HUM -- Archer notices loose screws and

other metal debris stuck to the sheer wall.  He pulls one

screw away -- and lets it fly back into the polarized

wall.

Archer gets an idea -- and looks back the way they came.

SHEER WALL

Archer and Dubov scale the face -- using the old metal

boots.  They climb higher and higher as...

Guards criss-cross the catwalks and staircases below and

around them -- oblivious.

Archer and Dubov almost reach the next level when...

BULLETS SMACK the wall around them -- just as Archer and

Dubov reach the next catwalk.

Archer spots the emergency exit security door at the far

end.  But four guards descend on them -- and block their

way.

Fist fight as Archer and Dubov take on the attacking

guards.  Archer heaves one down the stairs -- into more

guards.  Dubov drops another over the catwalk.

They continue their desperate race for the door --

reaching the landing.  As BULLETS PING around them --

hulking Dubov rips away a floor panel.  He uses it as a

shield as Archer sparks up Walton's lighter.

As SLUGS EXPLODE into the shield -- Archer places the

flame to his thumb... and peels off the skin mold.

He presses his thumb to the door's keypad.  To his

horror, its LED reads "print unreadable."

Walton and guards movie in, FIRING at closer and closer

range.

Dubov staggers under the FUSILLADE OF BULLETS.  The

shield is repeatedly punctured -- and is quickly

disintegrating.

Archer licks his thumb, tries again.  Finally it reads

"Clearance Confirmed"... the door slides open.

Dubov heaves the shield at the encroaching guards -- but

as he turns to follow... Walton BLOWS him away.

Archer reaches to pull Dubov through, but the riddled

inmate ignores the helping hand.  Pulling the door shut,

he collapses in front of it -- blocking it momentarily.

INT. HIGH CATWALK TOWER

Archer hesitates for a moment... but that's all he has.

he keeps going... up the winding staircase-catwalk --

higher and higher -- a step ahead of the onrushing

guards.

As BULLETS CLANG around him -- Archer reaches the top.

He ignores a sign which reads...

He charges straight up a ladder and plows right

through --

EXT. PRISON - DAWN

Archer's blinded -- it's daytime in the real world.

A sea gull flies across his face -- as we FOLLOW the

bird...

PULL WAY, WAY BACK to reveal:

The prison's in the middle of the goddamn ocean, in what

appears to be just an abandoned, rusty oil rig platform.

Archer rushes over to a transport chopper.

INSIDE COCKPIT

Archer searches for the keys.  No go.  He throws

switches.  Nothing works.

Guards pour out of the hatch -- FIRING.  Archer leaps

from the chopper and jumps over the side to the

platform's --

LOWER LEVEL

He lands hard on the slanted, corrugated shed roof and

rolls to the ground.  He grabs a high-pressure hose --

and cranks the pressure valve -- as the pursuing guards

close in.

Archer BLASTS the guards with the WATER CANNON --

knocking Walton and others into the sea.  Archer upends a

stack of oil barrels -- which roll into more guards.

Archer spots:

TUGBOAT

pulling a Zodiac dinghy -- heading out to sea.

Archer jumps up a stack of pipes to the south rail --

where the end of a crane's hook is tagged back.  Under

FIRE -- Archer frees the hook, which swings away from the

platform.

Hanging on to the hook, it swings him out over the ocean.

At the apex -- le lets go and plummets down into...

CHOPPY SEA

He pulls himself into the ZODIAC and frees it from the

tug.  It ROARS off.

EXT. ZODIAC - MOVING - DAY

The nylon craft zips through the waves -- approaching San

Pedro Harbor.  The ENGINE SPUTTERS... low on gas.

Archer senses something... He looks up and...

Whoosh!  Something swoops down -- but it's just a

pelican.

He FIDDLES with the ENGINE -- which finally DIES.  Archer

grabs the oars -- about to start rowing when --

Another swoop!  This time it's the prison chopper.

Archer spots a string of buoys dotting the harbor.  An

idea.

WIDE SHOT

The chopper settles over the Zodiac.

Wind and water swirl around Archer...

CHOPPER

Walton, drenched but obviously rescued, has archer in his

sights... He starts to FIRE his MACHINE GUNS...

ZODIAC

BULLETS RAIN down on the boat -- destroying it -- as

Archer dives into the rolling swells...

INSIDE CHOPPER

Walton RAKES the debris -- shredding it.

The chopper does a final circle of the wreckage... then

moves off... its ROTOR WASH THRASHING the buoy.

UNDER BUOY

Archer has crawled up into the hollow buoy -- sucking

air.

INT. ARCHER HOME - BEDROOM - DAY

Eve's asleep.  Castor, dressed, looks down at her like

Cortez at Montezuma -- triumphant, with overwhelming

power.

EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY

Heading for the car, Castor is about to light up when --

He pockets the smoke.  Eve is there, dressed somberly.

He climbs into the front seat beside her.

INT./EXT. CAR - MOVING - DAY

A pastoral, hilly area near the coast.

He moves closer, stroking her hair as his BEEPER sounds.

He turns his beeper off, then touches her lips with his

finger.  Without knowing exactly why, Eve tenses up.

Castor looks around in surprise because he sees she's

driving into --

SPRAWLING MEMORIAL PARK

They drive through the gates -- passing a church marked

"ST. MARY'S-BY-THE-SEA."  Nearby, the OCEAN ROARS.

EXT. ST. MARY'S CEMETERY - DAY

It's beautiful here, striking and sad.  Now on foot,

Castor follows Eve up a bluff, through a phalanx of

graves -- with no idea where she's leading him.

Finally she stops at a crucifix-topped headstone.  Castor

joins her and reads the etched marble stone:

Stunned, Castor watches as Eve kneels beside the marker.

She places a few child's toys on the marker... a shark...

a little bulldozer... a spaceship.  Overwhelmed with

grief, she collapses into Castor.

FULL SCREEN - CASTOR'S FACE

He stares at the grave of the boy he killed -- the boy

whose mother is weeping into his chest.

The ever-present smirk is long gone as Castor stiffly

returns Eve's embrace -- maybe, just maybe, feeling the

victim's pain.

INT. FBI BULLPEN - DAY

Shaking off his funk, Castor arrives at the office.

EXT. PIER - NIGHT

Something bobs up in the surf.  Archer is thrashed ashore

by the breakers... he crawls gasping onto the sand.  He

takes a few breaths -- then staggers up onto the beach.

EXT. TITO'S STREET - NIGHT

Archer's heart sinks as he sees the yellow police cordon

taped across Tito's front door.  Some teenage cholos

notice him -- so Archer keeps right on going.

INT. TITO'S DUPLEX - NIGHT

A rear window is forced open -- Archer pulls himself in.

In the dim light, he sees the bullet hole on the wall...

then the blood stains within the forensics chalk marks.

He buckles and has to sit down.  Taking a deep breath, he

picks up the phone and dials.

Archer waits.  He pinches his throat -- trying to

dislodge the vocal implant.  His voice scrambles into

garbled static.

INT. HOSPITAL - ER - NIGHT

EVE deftly stitches up a gash above little IRIS's (8)

eye.

Something about his too-quick response rankles Eve.  She

eyes the yuppy Dad with suspicion -- then notes some

bruises on the child's arm.  A NURSE enters.

INTERCUT Archer and Eve as necessary.

CLICK.  Archer sags in futility.  A SIREN snaps him back

to reality.

Archer goes to the window and carefully peers out.

A squad CAR ROARS INTO VIEW -- then continues on its way.

Waiting... Archer rifles the room... finding car keys...

a baggy jacket... Then...

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. FBI OFFICE

Archer pauses... hearing his own voice speaking to him.

Archer hangs up == leaving Castor stewing.

EXT. GARAGE - NIGHT

The automatic door lifts -- revealing Tito's old Buick.

The big V-8 RUMBLES as Archer pulls out.  He doesn't get

far as... menacing CHOLOS block his way.

The Cholos surround the Buick.  Archer's cornered like an

animal as the angry teens pound on the windows.

Archer HITS the GAS -- scattering all except Cholo #1 who

jumps on the hood.  Archer SLAMS the BRAKES -- sending

the guy flying.  He lands hard, but is only shaken up.

As Archer roars off, Cholo #1 pulls out his cell phone.

INT./EXT. BUICK - MOVING - NIGHT

Archer drives on -- listening to KFWB.

He SHUTS it OFF as he sees in the distance:

HIS OWN HOME

FBI and LAPD vehicles are parked in front.  No way he's

getting near there.

In his rearview mirror Archer spots a cop car

approaching.  He quickly turns a corner as the cop slowly

cruises by.

Archer gets an idea.  But as he drives on -- the cop car

backs up -- and reappears INTO FRAME.

EXT. MELROSE DISTRICT - NIGHT

Dietrich locks up his chic art gallery.  He gets in his

Lexus and drives out of the parking lot.

INT./EXT. STREET - LEXUS - MOVING - NIGHT

Dietrich slows down to check out the forensics team

swarming all over Tito's parked Buick.  Dietrich quickly

averts his face as he spots... "Jon Archer" inspecting

Tito's Buick.

With surprising speed, Dietrich yanks a pistol from

someplace and jerks around --

Archer -- hunkered down in the back seat -- stares into

the barrel of Dietrich's pistol.

Dietrich snakes the car past the crime scene and speeds

off.

EXT. DOWNTOWN - LOFT - NIGHT (LATER)

Cars pull up in front of a gentrified loft amid the low-

rent streets.

Emerging from them are several thugs -- including Aldo,

Fitch and their sexy girl friends, LIVIA and Cindee.

INT. DIETRICH'S LOFT - BATHROOM - NIGHT

Archer splashes water on his face -- then stops and

listens as the DOORBELL RINGS.  He screws up his courage.

INT. DIETRICH'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION

The thugs admire the loft -- dominated by an enormous,

in-progress mural and stunning glass-bricked floor.

Archer emerges.  The men are stunned -- the women beam.

He turns to leave.  Archer wheels him around and smashes

him into the wall.  Aldo goes for his gun, but Archer's

too quick -- he strips him of it.

The four bodyguards draw their weapons -- and surround

Archer.

Four against one -- and everyone's sweating but Archer.

One-by-one, the bodyguards back off.  Archer points the

gun at Aldo -- then smiles and hands it back.

Aldo blanches -- how did Castor know that?  Fitch laughs.

Stunned, Fitch cringes as everybody cracks up.

The thugs exchange a glance... reading each other...

considering.

Archer sighs with relief -- pleased with his performance.

FULL SCREEN - BLUE CAPSULE

Dietrich cracks it open -- powder sifts into a big high-

ball glass filled with mescal.  he hands it to Archer.

They all look expectantly at Archer... he's at a loss.

Silence -- then they crack up.  Reluctantly, Archer

swallows the tumbler of mescal... he fights back the urge

to puke.

She drags him onto the glass floor.  Cindee puts on some

MUSIC as Archer's head begins to spin.  The girls start

"dancing," grinding Archer between their taut bodies.  He

tries to avoid it, but Livia kisses him -- hot, moist.

Archer's eyes fall on the series of abstract paintings.

The twisted renderings make his head spin worse... as he

starts to hallucinate... surrounded by enemies -- he

struggles to regain control of his battered psyche.

He pulls away and stumbles down the stairs -- toward the

kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Archer has his mouth under the tap -- drinking greedily.

Woozy, he takes a breath... and notices a reflection in

the window above the sink.  Archer turns to see -- Sasha.

She responds by slapping him -- hard.

He wobbles, then falls flat on his face.  Out cold.

INT. ARCHER'S HOME - BALCONY - NIGHT

Castor's chain-smoking, looking out over the city --

wondering where Archer might be hiding.  But something

breaks his rumination.  He sees --

DOWN STREET

A BMW pulls up to the curb.  The THUMPING MUSIC from

within GOES QUIET, but no one emerges.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER)

Curious, Castor approaches the car, keeping a safe

distance.  He can see Jamie inside, struggling with Karl.

He "shushes" Jamie -- but doesn't stop pawing her.

SMASH!  The passenger WINDOW EXPLODES inward.  Castor

drags Karl out by his hair.  Jamie scrambles out and

flees toward the house as...

Castor heaves Karl into the WINDSHIELD -- SPIDER-WEBBING

it.  Somehow the kid finds his feet and stumbles behind

the wheel.  The Beemer lurches away.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

Castor enters to find Jamie, still shaken up.

With a fluid motion, Castor expertly SNAPS open a well-

oiled SWITCHBLADE and hands it to an astonished Jamie.

She hugs him tight -- taking Castor by surprise.  But he

responds momentarily.  About to pat her rump -- something

makes him stop.

Jamie kisses him and heads up stairs.  After she's

gone...

The PHONE RINGS.  He rushes to the den and picks it up.

EXT. LOFT - ACROSS STREET - NIGHT

Using night-vision goggles, Pollux watches Sasha close

her drapes.  Visible in the b.g. on the sofa -- is

Archer.

INT. SASHA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Archer wakens.  Sasha is tugging off his pants.

She pulls out some fresh clothes -- and dumps them on

him.

For the first time, Archer sees not a hardened felon --

but a frightened, protective mother.  And he realizes the

effect his own relentless obsession has had on her.

ADAM enters, heading for his toys -- his presence cooling

Sasha's deep-seated anger.  Archer finishes dressing.

Her harsh look softens imperceptively -- like that of a

woman trying to hate someone she still loves.

Sasha fidgets, struggling with a deep inner turmoil.

Then...

Archer's face pales over in shock.

EXT. SASHA'S ROOM - NIGHT

Their silhouettes are visible against the shades.

PULL BACK...

EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Castor, Buzz, Wanda and Loomis peer at the silhouettes.

Before Buzz can object, Castor's eyes say "don't argue."

INT. SASHA'S ROOM - NIGHT

Playing with his toys, Adam does not see Archer's icy

gaze.

Startled, they turn to see Adam pointing a toy gun at

them.  Upset, she takes it from his hands.

She kicks the toy aside and lifts Adam -- offering him to

Archer.  Awkwardly, Archer takes the boy.

Archer's emotions avalanche as his grip tightens -- his

big hands dwarfing the little boy's body.

Archer isn't hearing Sasha.  He's lost in his own

memory... the sound of a CAROUSEL... a KID'S LAUGHTER...

a GUNSHOT...

Then Adam smiles -- perhaps the way Matthew once smiled.

It pulls something up from inside Archer -- something

strong.  He regains control, dumping the child into

Sasha's arms.

Then something alerts Archer -- maybe the fleeting

shadows that blot out the window-light for the barest

second.

K-BOOM-BOOM-BOOM-BOOM!  The WINDOW PANES SHATTER -- as

TEARGAS GRENADES and GUNFIRE riddles the loft.

OUTSIDE

across the way, Castor directs the FIREPOWER.

INT. UPPER LEVEL

Chaos.  A bodyguard is mowed down.  Dietrich and the

others scatter and hit the floor.

KITCHEN

Cindee and Fitch are caught in flagrante delicto on the

floor as the kitchen is decimated by GUNFIRE...

SASHA'S BEDROOM

Coughing, Archer crawls through the roiling smoke toward

the door.  He's almost out when...

Her wail of fear freezes Archer.  He looks back -- and

sees Adam in the eye of the firestorm.

Archer's face betrays his conflict.  A child -- but his

worst enemy's child.

BULLETS SHRED the WALL around Adam.  Getting closer.

Archer moves -- he crawls toward Adam.

Just then -- a SWAT agent rappels in through one of the

shattered windows, his weapon poised.  Archer kicks him

hard, pitching him back through the window.

Archer grabs Adam -- curling him into his body.  Thinking

fast, he soaks his discarded T-shirt into a toppled

flower vase -- then places it over Adam's face.

Protecting him.

He rushes to Sasha.  Together, they barrel through the

soft, paper wall and tear out an escape route.

INT. KITCHEN

FIRING out the window, Fitch is riddled from outside by

an agent as he CRASHES through the WINDOW.

Cindee slashes the agent with a cleaver.  He FIRES --

BLASTING Cindee into the refrigerator.

LOWER LEVEL

Archer hustles Sasha and Adam toward the staircase

when --

FRONT DOOR

explodes open.  SWAT agents swarm to get in -- FIRING and

throwing FLASH-GRENADES.

ARCHER, SASHA AND ADAM

are caught out in the open, when --

UPPER LEVEL

Dietrich, et al, open FIRE down on the attacking agents.

Agents drop or are driven back out.

SKYLIGHT

BURSTS open and agents rappel down -- FIRING.  Aldo's

bodyguard falls, riddled, off the upper level.

LOWER LEVEL

as one agent lands, Archer knocks his gun to the floor.

They grapple.  As the agent reaches for it -- Adam

appears and kicks the gun away.  Just like Mommy.

SASHA

scoops up the kicked weapon -- and cold-cocks another

rappelling agent.  Then she FIRES, cutting a third

rappelling agent's rope.  he drops hard to the floor --

unconscious.

Still grappling, Archer rips off the agent's gas-mask...

Buzz's eyes reveal only hatred.  He reaches for his

knife.  Archer hesitates, then heaves Buzz through the

glass door.  He pushes Adam upstairs as more agents pour

in the front door.

UPPER LEVEL

Dietrich sees the canvas mural above the breached front

door -- and understands.  He opens FIRE, cutting loose

the mural.  It collapses, billowing -- and enshrouds the

attacking agents -- and buying time.

Archer and Sasha flee up the stairs.

UPPER LEVEL

Sasha sees Adam huddled in the middle of the glass floor

-- the shadows of agents moving below.

LOWER LEVEL

An agent aims his shotgun at the glass floor -- at the

"target" kneeling on top of it.

UPPER LEVEL

Archer dives and grabs the boy as the GLASS FLOOR

EXPLODES up.  He rolls through a shower of glass -- but

comes up with Adam safely.

Agents and thugs FIRE blindly upward and downward through

the floor -- desperate to hit their targets.

Agents open FIRE from the girders supporting the roof --

cutting down Fitch's last bodyguard.

Dietrich and Livia toss SMOKE GRENADES into the loft --

covering their escape.

TOP LEVEL

Dietrich leads them to the very back of the loft.  He

pulls open a hidden door.

Archer hands Adam over to Sasha.  She hugs her little boy

-- then embraces Archer tightly.  Hanging on -- near

tears -- because she knows this may be the last time.

Livia and the remaining bodyguard hustle Archer out --

INT. ROTUNDA - NIGHT

MAC-10 poised, Livia and the bodyguard rush Archer

through the deserted rotunda -- BOOM!  BOOM!  His escorts

drop.

Castor rushes down the staircase -- BLASTING at Archer.

Unarmed, Archer instantly disappears behind one of the

eight columns.  The columns are separated by mirrored-

panels.

Cat-and-mouse as Castor slips in and out between column

and mirror.  He spots Archer dead-ahead and BLASTS away!

CRASH!  The MIRROR SHATTERS into a thousand pieces.

Castor whirls, spots Archer again and FIRES!  Another

MIRROR.  Sensing Archer behind him -- Castor turns and

FIRES again -- this time BLASTING away his OWN

REFLECTION.

Then Archer leaps through a shattered mirror frame -- and

onto Castor.  They battle for control of the pistol.

They're so close Castor's whispering right in Archer's

ear.

Castor licks Archer's ear salaciously.  Enraged, Archer

tears the pistol from his grip and turns it on Castor.

He's got Castor dead to rights -- suddenly BULLETS SHRED

the world around him.  Archer staggers away as --

Loomis enters -- FIRING his M-16 as Archer dives for a

doorway.  Loomis FIRES the M-16's grenade launcher.

BOOM!  The GRENADE EXPLODES -- the doorway bursts into

flames -- but Archer has made it through.

Loomis tries to help up Castor -- who pushes him off

angrily.  Castor can't follow through the flames.

EXT. ROOF - NIGHT

Archer slams out of the interior stairwell -- but BULLETS

force him to take cover behind the cupola.

Pollux FIRES at him from the other side.

Archer RETURNS FIRE -- driving Pollux back.  Stand-off.

Trying to get the drop, Pollux carefully crawls onto the

top of the cupola.

Archer hears movement above him as Pollux reaches the

crown.

Archer FIRES his PISTOL -- into the glass cupola -- and

SHATTERS the GLASS beneath Pollux's feet.  The cupola

disintegrates beneath his weight.  He plunges down

into --

ROTUNDA

Castor watches in horror as Pollux pancakes onto the

floor at his feet.

Pollux is almost gone.  Castor looks up and sees --

ARCHER

Peering down into the rotunda.

CASTOR

OPENS FIRE --

ARCHER

Ducks the bullets as he disappears.

Castor desperately holds Pollux -- to no avail.  Pollux

slips away... and dies.  He turns to Loomis...

Castor snaps.  Without hesitation, he jerks up his GUN

and PUTS a BULLET right in the middle of Loomis's

forehead.

Castor looks at the dead kid -- his rage barely abated

as -- Buzz and Wanda arrive on the scene and see Loomis's

body.

After Buzz and Wanda take off -- Castor gathers Pollux up

in his arms -- totally devastated.

INT. F.B.I - DAY

Dazed, Castor approaches his office.  Kim proudly holds a

copy of Time magazine.  His photo is on the cover.

He just pushes by her and goes into his office.

INT. FBI - ARCHER'S OFFICE - DAY

Alone -- Castor picks up the framed photo of Eve and

Jamie -- staring at it with unbridled hatred.

Fury rising, he crumples the frame -- and the photo -- in

his clenching grip.  He hurls it into other Archer family

memorabilia -- shattering more photos and souvenirs.

Only then does Castor notice Lazarro standing in the

doorway.  For how long -- he can't be sure.

Lazarro shuts the door behind him.

Castor casually closes the blinds between the offices.

Eye to eye... Castor knows he can't finesse this one.

Castor suddenly jabs his fist into Lazarro's chest.  He

pleads for mercy as Castor pounds and pounds away at his

heart -- until it finally seizes up.

Lazarro twitches in a death throe, then slumps to the

ground.

He punches up the intercom button.

Castor fixes himself a shot of mescal.  He checks his

watch -- as if counting -- then kneels beside Lazarro's

body.

The door flies open -- and two medics rush in.  They see

Castor vigorously pumping Lazarro's chest -- "applying"

CPR.

The medics gently nudge Castor aside.  One medic takes

Lazarro's pulse, then shakes his head.

EXT. GRIFFITH PARK OBSERVATORY - DAY

Castor peers down over the city... trying to collect

himself.  He lights up a smoke... planning his next move.

His meditation is broken as a police chopper circles

above.

EXT. CITY - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY

LAPD choppers circle... squad cars prowl... cops and FBI

agents set up roadblocks.  The city is being sealed off.

EXT. DOWNTOWN - BROADWAY - DAY

Skirting a roadblock, Archer appears to be coming

undone... wobbly, wild-eyed... he suddenly picks up a

trash can and carries it down the street in front of his

face.

Pedestrians gawk at this madman.  What's he doing?

Archer finally stops in front of a sporting goods store.

He swings the trash can.  SMASH!  The store's WINDOW

SHATTERS.  An ALARM BLARES.

Passersby stare at Archer for a moment -- stunned.  Then

several youths leap into the window and start pulling

merchandise out of the store.

Mayhem as others join in... clerks rush out to do battle.

An LAPD squad car hauls up onto the curb.  A cop leaps

out and chases as the looters scatter.

The driver stands at his door, radio in hand.  Sensing

something, he turns... just as Archer grabs the canister

of Comply-Gas from the cop's belt.

Archer sprays him in the face.  The cop gags and sags.

Archer quickly slips behind the wheel.

Inside:  Archer hits a switch -- the car's tinted windows

darken automatically, obscuring him from the outside.  He

HITS the GAS -- SCREAMING away.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Archer slows the squad car.

Up ahead:  Parked cop cars block both lanes of the main

road -- a roadblock checkpoint for all traffic.

Archer pulls off the road, out of sight.  He flips open

the portacomp and starts to type rapidly.

INT. FBI - DAY

A DISPATCHER'S SCANNER CLICKS to life.

QUICK SHOTS

A)  MOTOR POOL

B)  HELIPORT

C)  ARCHER'S HOUSE

EXT. ROADBLOCK - DAY

Archer watches as the checkpoint of cop cars pulls apart

and screams east on the main road -- passing Archer.

Once the armada is gone, he pulls out and heads west.

EXT. ARCHER HOME - BACK YARD - DAY

A plank in the fence swings aside as Archer slips into

the yard.  He peers out from behind the garage.

A cop sits in a lawn chair, tuning a POLICE-BAND RADIO.

Archer approaches the bird feeder.  Quietly, he sticks

his hand inside -- and searches for the key.

Just when he grabs it -- CAW-CAW -- an annoying BLUEBIRD

hovers over Archer.  The cop looks over -- but Archer is

gone.  All Lars sees is the bird.

INT. FBI - BULLPEN - DAY

Castor arrives.  Wanda is shocked to see him.

INT. ARCHER HOME - SUNSET

Archer tiptoes through the house -- listening.  He sees

Cop #2 sitting at the dining room table, cleaning his

pistol.  He slips upstairs -- toward the sound of

RUNNING WATER.

MASTER BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS ACTION

Archer walks in and steps toward the bathroom -- passing

the bed.  He stops.  On top of the rumpled covers:  Eve's

nightgown and a pair of Castor's black briefs.

Overwhelmed, he sits down -- not noticing the water has

stopped.  Eve steps in from the bathroom.

The look of horror on her face snaps him back to reality.

She runs, but Archer grabs her.  She struggles --

fighting and kicking him -- but somehow he keeps her

mouth covered.

Terrified -- she finally nods and he eases off her.

Archer holds onto her as she struggles again.

Eve is startled by this intimate information but she

reveals nothing.  SIRENS approach the house, the cops are

returning.  She keeps an eye on the door.  Playing for

time.

The back DOOR CLICKS open.  A voice booms out.

Archer glances at the balcony -- as FOOTSTEPS CLOMP up

the stairs.  Eve is about to answer -- or scream.  But

then...

The blood drains from her face as... Archer slips over

the balcony and disappears.

INT. STUDY - LATER

Eve is at the computer -- dazed and disoriented.  She

snaps alert on hearing the front DOOR OPEN -- Castor is

giving orders to the cops guarding the house.

Eve feigns interest in her laptop as Castor enters.  She

tenses as he starts massaging her back.

He studies Eve, then grasps her firmly by the shoulders.

Castor wraps his hands around her slender neck...

Eve reacts to the explanation.  There is a logic to it.

Castor pours it on -- feigning immense grief.

INT. ARCHER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Castor slumbers fitfully.  Suddenly, his shoulder

twitches, rousing him.  He looks up to find Eve reading

beside him.

Eve rubs Castor's shoulder blade until he falls asleep.

She gets up, closes the window, then goes into the

bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Eve takes a breath, then produces a lancet from her

pocket.  She squeezes the lancet -- and a drop of blood

splashes into a glass vial -- Castor's blood.

EXT. ARCHER HOME - NIGHT

As Eve gets the key in her car door -- a hand grabs her.

She stifles a scream -- then sees... the two COPS.

EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Nothing happening here at 4 A.M.  Nothing indeed.  The

bored Cop keeps watch outside -- as Eve hustles in.

INT. HOSPITAL - EVE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Eve paces anxiously as the BLOOD ANALYZER CLICKS away.

The MACHINE STOPS CLICKING.  It reads "Male -- Type AB."

She buries her face in her hands -- completely stunned.

Archer emerges from the darkness of her office -- but Eve

pulls a pistol -- aiming it with calm authority.

As Archer speaks -- Eve searches his eyes for the truth.

Eve slowly puts the gun down, fighting off tears.

She pulls herself together -- regaining her composure.

INT. ARCHER HOME - MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Castor wakes up and finds Eve gone.  His eyes narrow as

he touches the mosquito bite -- the one that isn't there.

INT. HOSPITAL - EVE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Eve sifts through the supply cabinet and finds a yellow

vial.

Archer takes a breath -- and pulls himself together.

Archer reacts... the irony's not lost on him.

Archer looks into her eyes -- the regrets flooding over.

They embrace... soaking up each other's warmth.

FOOTSTEPS APPROACH -- they break their embrace.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Castor and the twins round the bend -- just in time to

see the door to the burn ward close.

INT. BURN WARD - NIGHT

Eve quickly wraps gauze around a patient's head -- when

Castor and his boys rush in, guns leveled.

Lars starts pulling at the patient's bandages.

He blanches as Lars reveals a scarred burn victim -- Mr.

Alandro.  Eve is livid as she attends to the patient.

They leave.  Eve wipes his ugly taste from her mouth.

EXT. HOSPITAL PARKING LOT - DAWN

Castor gets into his car as he confabs with the twins.

EXT. OLD RANCH - HIGH GRASS - DAY

Archer waits as Sasha appears with a long case.  In the

b.g., Adam plays on the Ranch House porch with Dietrich.

Archer opens the case.  Inside is a sniper rifle.

He turns to leave -- but her look draws him back.  He

kisses her -- not passionately, but nobly.

She watches him as he walks off toward the truck.

EXT. ARCHER'S HOME - DAY

Dressed in staid black, Eve joins Castor at the limo.

Castor's eyes narrow -- trying to read Eve.

EXT. ST. MARY'S-BY-THE-SEA - DAY

A crucifix gleams in the sun... and anchoring the

crucifix is... a headstone.

Like so many others -- except this headstone is Matthew

Archer's.  And hidden behind it is -- Jon Archer.  He

finishes assembling the sniper rifle.

For a moment he acknowledges Matthew's grave... the

regrets giving way to determination.  He looks down from

his vantage point onto --

EXT. SEA-SIDE - DAY

At the foot of the cemetery knoll.  Rows of chairs...

white flowers... mourners.  A yacht is docked at the

breakwater.

INTERCUT WITH:

ARCHER'S POV THROUGH SCOPE

peers down through scope -- seeing...

Castor and Eve as they emerge from their limo.

Eve glances around, searching for Archer.  She comes eye-

to-eye with Lars -- who is watching her every move.

Archer TRACKS Castor and Eve as they sit in the front

row.  The ceremony begins.

The PRIEST begins to recite a beautiful and somber mass.

ARCHER

fills the trank-dart with sedative.

PRIEST

continues the solemn ritual.

EVE

checks her watch... barely lifting her eyes away...

Castor absently pats her knee.  She's forced to return

focus to the service.

ARCHER

chambers the dart, twists a knob on the range-finder, and

carefully peers over the crucifix.

THROUGH SCOPE

Archer TRACKS THROUGH the mourners -- and FINDS Castor.

As the cross-hairs neatly cube his head...

BACK TO SCENE

We've come full circle from Matthew's death:  with Archer

the sniper and Castor the target.

The Priest's emotional reciting of the rites climaxes.

FULL SCREEN - TRIGGER

Archer's finger wraps around -- he starts to squeeze...

POV THROUGH SCOPE - FIGURE

crosses behind Castor, blocking Archer's shot.  Archer's

finger freezes -- as the figure turns -- hair tumbling

away from her face.  It's Jamie.

AT SERVICE

Eve stiffens as Jamie sits down.

Castor reads the panic on Eve's face, but says nothing.

He simply takes Jamie's hand, intertwining his fingers in

hers.

The honor guard steps forward, shouldering their rifles,

commencing their 21-GUN SALUTE as --

ARCHER

steadies himself, re-aims the sniper rifle.

He hears MOTION behind him.  Someone's coming and fast...

but this is his only chance.  Off-balance, Archer

squeezes --

THFFFT!  The SILENCED TRANK-DART explodes from the

barrel.

FOLLOW DART

Screaming toward Castor's neck -- but it goes just wide.

It sinks harmlessly into the grass -- unnoticed during

the 21-GUN SALUTE.

ON KNOLL

THUMP!  Archer is cracked across the head.  He slumps

down, unconscious, as a silenced gun barrel gently enters

his ear.  As the saluting GUNS FIRE in the b.g. -- we

don't know when, or if, this pistol fires...

AT SEA-SIDE SERVICE

The honor guard presents the urn to Mrs. Lazarro.

Fearful, Eve chances a glance around -- wondering what's

gone wrong.

As Mrs. Lazarro and her grown children proceed to the

docked yacht, Castor touches his ear-phone...

getting a message.

His eyes alight on a boathouse... adjacent to the

service.

Guests head for their cars.  Eve seizes the moment and

steps over to Wanda and Buzz.

But then Eve looks past Wanda -- and sees Lars looking at

her -- tightening his "friendly" grip on Jamie's

shoulder.

Wanda and Buzz watch as they head up toward the

boathouse.

INT. BOATHOUSE - DAY

Dim, deserted.  Filled with boat parts, tools, etc.

Castor hustles Eve inside and locks the door behind him.

Lunt is there -- standing over a beaten Archer.  Eve

gasps.

Castor starts kicking Archer.  Over and over in the gut.

Eve can't stand it.  She charges Castor -- but he

immediately subdues her.

He throws her down beside Archer.  She clings to him.

Archer plays for time -- looking for some edge.  He sees

a crate filled with block-and-tackle amid the shop's

tools.

Castor smiles as the DOOR CREAKS open.

But it's not Jamie and Lars.  Three people emerge from

the shadows, machine pistols poised.

No options.  Castor and Lunt drop their weapons.

EXT. BOATHOUSE - SIDE ENTRANCE - DAY

Lars and Jamie pull up in the car.  Lars listens to his

headset -- knows something is wrong.

INT. BOATHOUSE - DAY

Sasha's at Archer's side.

Aldo aims at Castor when BOOM!  He's blown apart.

Lars charges in -- BLASTING.

Archer grabs a block-and-tackle as --

Lunt dives for Aldo's fallen machine-pistol.  Archer

swings the block-and-tackle -- whacking Lunt across the

head.

Castor scoops up his pistol but Eve kicks him hard in the

balls.  He doubles over.

Archer snatches away the MACHINE PISTOL.  Staggered --

Lunt is quickly riddled by Dietrich.

Castor and Lars BLAZE at the now-scattering intruders --

driving them back amid the shot's tools and drums.

Eve crawls through the FUSILLADE toward the exit.

EXT. MEMORIAL SERVICE - DAY

Among the last to leave -- Buzz and Wanda snap alert.

Over the CRASHING of the WAVES -- did Wanda hear

something?

EXT. BOATHOUSE - DAY

Eve rushes to the car -- it's empty.  Jamie is gone.

BULLETS SHRED the WINDOWS behind her.

INT. BOATHOUSE - DAY

During the GUN BATTLE -- we INTERCUT the deaths of

Dietrich, Lars and Sasha WITH:

EXT. SEA - LAZARRO'S ASHES

being scattered at sea.

Castor and Lars RIDDLE Sasha.  She drops.  Archer FIRES

back -- killing Lars and driving Castor back.

Archer leans beside the mortally-wounded Sasha.

She dies in his arms.  Wounded, Dietrich crawls over.

Seeing his sister, Dietrich rises in horror...

BOOM BOOM BOOM!  Castor wastes Dietrich.  Archer BLASTS

back -- driving Castor outside.  Archer pursues.

EXT. MEMORIAL SERVICE - DAY

Eve runs smack into Wanda and Buzz -- they're on the run.

EXT. BOATHOUSE YARD - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY

Archer emerges into the maze of dry-docked boats.

Silently checking his clip, he discards the empty gun.

Castor moves stealthily through the narrow paths.

Hearing a NOISE behind him --

BOOM!  Castor FIRES -- blowing apart an under-repair

hull.  He advances toward the boat, gun ready, when

Archer appears behind him and follows -- one step, two

steps -- until --

Castor stops -- then whirls as Archer leaps.

The men collapse hard.  Castor's pistol clatters across

the yard toward the docked boat.

Archer and Castor brutally strangle each other -- digging

their fingers deep into their throats.  They throttle

each other so hard, Archer's larynx vocal chip is

dislodged.

His VOICE CHANGES, ECHOING with garbled.  STATIC.

They scramble for the gun -- but a hand reaches out from

the docked boat and picks it up.  Archer and Castor stop

dead in their tracks because --

Jamie appears, holding the pistol.

Everybody gawks -- because Archer and Castor are now...

Both speaking in Archer's true voice.

And nobody is more confused than Jamie.

Jamie swings the gun back and forth -- baffled.

Jamie FIRES.  Archer reels -- as a slug grazes his

shoulder.  Castor snatches the PISTOL from Jamie's hand.

He aims the gun at Archer's head.

Wanda and Buzz have burst onto the terrace -- their guns

leveled.  Eve and more agents are right behind.

Several agents waver -- unsure.  But not Wanda and Buzz.

He grabs a shocked Jamie -- shoving the gun under her

chin.

Archer struggles to his feet as --

Castor -- using Jamie as a shield -- backs out the gate

to the garden.  Archer follows -- cautiously.

Jamie whips out the switchblade -- sinks it into Castor's

thigh and twists.  She dives away.  FIRING wildly, Castor

staggers back through the gate.

OUTSIDE GATE

As Castor turns and staggers away -- he runs smack into a

confused security agent.

The agent hands over his UZI -- and Castor PLUGS him.

BOATYARD

Archer and Eve make sure Jamie's okay.

Archer rushes to the gate and hauls it open.

CASTOR

limps away from the boatyard, towards the slips -- alive

with sunbathers and yachters.

EXT. MARINA DOCKS - DAY

Castor hustles along until he finds what he's looking

for --

Twin Cigarette BOATS -- racing boats -- being TUNED UP by

their suntanned crews.  He jumps into one of the boats.

Without even looking, Castor SHOOTS the guy dead.  In a

flash -- Castor THROTTLES up the BOAT.  He sees --

CASTOR'S POV

Archer running down the dock toward the adjoining boat.

CASTOR

FIRES -- peppering the dock.

Archer knocks the boat owner to safety -- as the BAIT

HOUSE BLOWS UP behind him.  Archer rolls into the boat --

FIRING.

Castor's hit!  A slug grazes his shoulder.  He grabs the

THROTTLE -- taking off.

ARCHER

FIRES UP the second BOAT -- in pursuit.  Castor BLASTS

back -- SHATTERING Archer's BOAT COMPASS.

CIVILIAN BOAT

speeds toward him -- causing a near-miss.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Running parallel, Archer and Castor BLAST at EACH OTHER

at point-blank range.  Their boats smash and pound each

other.

A police boat closes in on them.

Castor FIRES at the police -- obliterating both crew and

boat.  The POLICE BOAT'S rear SMASHES into Archer's

craft.

Archer's BOAT plows up and through the other.  EXPLOSION!

Momentum carries Archer across -- and back into the

water.

The boat lands right next to Castor's.

Archer and Castor resume their battering... approaching

a --

TUG

pulling a barge.

Castor forces Archer into its path.  At the last

moment...

Archer leaps onto the bow of Castor's boat as --

KA-BOOM!  Archer's boat crashes into the BARGE which

EXPLODES.

CASTOR

swerves wildly -- trying to throw Archer off.

Archer can only watch as Castor reaches for another clip.

But the boat hits a wave...

Castor loses the gun -- which skids away.  Archer slips,

his head hanging over the side.  Castor tries to ram

Archer, but he pulls himself up just in time.

Castor grabs the anchor -- swings it.  WHUNK!  It sinks

into the deck beside Archer -- but the chain is around

his neck.

As Castor tries to strangle him -- Archer headbutts

Castor, who reels -- snagging his leg around the chain.

Castor falls back -- plunging toward the water.

Archer tries to hold Castor up... as the boat speeds

toward --

PIER

Archer yanks Castor back onto the deck as the BOAT

BOUNCES OFF the pier pilings.  But as they slug it out...

ANOTHER ANGLE

WHAM!  The BOAT careens off a piling -- and ROARS

straight for the shipyard.  COLLIDING with a shoreline

obstruction --

The BOAT FLIPS, stern over bow...

Archer and Castor go flying... onto the beach.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

Archer and Castor lie dazed... then stir.  Castor sees

the pistol lying half-buried... he reaches for it.

But --

Archer gets it first.  He aims it at Castor as they rise.

BOOM -- Archer SHOOTS Castor in the chest!  He jerks and

reels -- dropping to his knees.  He looks at Archer in

total disbelief.  Then he sinks to the ground and lies

still.

Exhausted, Archer lets the empty gun drop.  Then he turns

and sees an FBI chopper heading his way.  Relieved, he

turns back to Castor, but -- Castor's body is gone!

Castor is crawling toward the flipped boat's spinning

stabilizing screw.  Archer FIRES -- hitting Castor in the

leg.  He buckles... but keeps going.

Archer leaps on him -- they struggle as Castor tries to

bury his face on the spinning blade.

They struggle as the propeller blade. gets closer,

closer -- slicing into "Archer's" cheek.  At the last

instant...

Archer reaches the anchor-chain.  He wraps it around the

screw -- stopping the whirling blades.

Castor finally sinks to the ground -- and no longer

moves.

Archer takes Castor's hand -- trying to tug off his

wedding ring.  Just when he almost has it off -- Castor

suddenly grabs Archer's wrist and holds it tight.

Eye contact between the two men.  Castor smirks, his

grasp slackening... as he finally fades away.  Archer

lets Castor's hand drop, then slides the ring on his own

finger.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The chopper lands.  Buzz and Wanda rush over.

Archer finally realizes -- they actually mean him.  He

smiles -- Jon Archer's long lost smile.

EXT. SHIPYARD - SUNSET

FBI med-teams strap Archer onto a gurney.  Castor's inert

body is beside him.

He passes out as the FBI medics load him onto the med-

evac chopper.  Wanda prevents Eve from climbing aboard.

Wanda gets on the med-evac chopper; it lifts off, leaving

a furious Eve and a confused Jamie behind.

In the swirl of dust, they watch the chopper fly away.

INT. ARCHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Maybe days, maybe weeks later -- no way to tell.  Eve is

at the dining room table, catching up on medical reports.

Sensing something, she looks up and sees a silhouette at

the front screen door -- a man's silhouette.

Pulse pounding, Eve frantically pushes open the door to

glimpse the face of the man with Archer's voice.

It's Jon Archer.  Eve stares -- then touches his face

carefully, tenderly -- around the tiny residual scar.

Then, she pulls him tight -- holding on for dear life.

Jamie is there.  Archer smiles -- gently, almost sadly --

with a softness and genuineness that Castor Troy could

never feel, could never fake.

She rushes to him.  The whole family hangs on, hugging

and kissing -- for the first time ever, really together.

Archer smiles and holds her tighter.  But as they draw

Archer inside, he hesitates.

He steps aside -- revealing Castor's son.

Eve looks at Archer -- she sees what this means to him

and, what the hell, there's plenty of time now to talk.

EXT. ARCHER'S HOME - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DAY

As the family heads inside, the door closes, shutting us

out.

INT. MATTHEW'S OLD ROOM - NIGHT

Archer gives Adam an old teddy bear -- rocking the child

until he finally drifts off into dreamland.

INT. JAMIE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Archer watches Jamie sleep.  He draws the comforter over

her -- she stirs, and pulls it in tighter.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Eve gets undressed... waiting for Archer.

No reply... Eve hears WATER RUNNING.  She approaches

Archer, who's bent over the sink, washing his face.

Archer stands up -- revealing Castor's face in the

bathroom mirror.  Eve chokes back a scream.

Archer turns and faces her -- with his true face.  He

sees her terrified expression, turns back to the mirror

-- and sees his own face looking at him.  But he

understands.

He embraces Eve... holds her tight.  She responds, happy

to have him home again.  We STAY ON his familiar smile

and...

