<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Fast Times at Ridgemont High

FADE IN:

EXT. RIDGEMONT CENTER MALL - NIGHT

From the outside parking lot it looks like an

enormous beached whale. It is the prime hangout for

all the teenagers in the area. Kids mill around the

parking lot or stand by the mall entrance.

INT. RIDGEMONT CENTER MALL

There are three levels of stores underneath a

massive fluorescent roof. Different music comes

from each store. It looks seventies-modern, but

already used and run-down. Groups of kids cruise

the mall, eyeing each other and acting cool.

INT. SWENSON'S ICE-CREAM PARLOR - NIGHT

The teenage waitresses in their peppermint pattie

uniforms are rushing around, trying to keep up with

their orders.

A good-looking man in his mid-twenties enters and

sits. He wears a plastic name tag that says:

"Pacific Stereo Audio Consultant, RON JOHNSON."

Two Swenson's Waitresses pass by with supreme

indifference, and take their orders into the back

kitchen.

INT. SWENSON'S BACK KITCHEN

The two Waitresses discuss the issue at hand. One

of them, Linda Barrett, is the seventeen year old,

retired sex queen of Ridgemont High.

A third waitress enters.

Through the entrance, we see Stacy Hamilton. She is

the fifteen-year-old trainee, sweet-looking with

just the last traces of baby fat. She puts down a

glass of water for Ron, spills some and mops it up.

A flustered Stacy enters the back kitchen.

She fluffs up Stacy's hair and gently shoves her

towards the door. Stacy reluctantly exits.

INT. SWENSON'S DINING ROOM

Stacy goes to Ron's table.

Stacy thinks it over, decides it's a joke and

laughs (a little too late). Ron looks at her

soulfully.

He stares at her and she stares back uncomfortably.

Stacy smiles nervously.

INT. RIDGEMONT MALL - OUTSIDE SWENSON'S - NIGHT

A teenage boy stands in front of an in-mall theatre

across from Swenson's. He wears a stiff over-sized

tuxedo suit. He is Mark "The Rat" Ratner, a ticket

taker on the job.

Mike Damone, a transplanted Easterner, bops over

from the record store, eyeing every girl he passes.

He stops at the movie theatre.

Two Junior High Kids spot Damone, walk up to him.

Damone reacts indignantly.

The Kids look at each other.

Damone reaches inside his pants pocket for a wad of

tickets.

EXT. CARL'S JR. - NIGHT

At the other end of the mall is a neon-lit Carl's

Jr. Hamburger Restaurant. If Swenson's was the warm

up, this is the main attraction of the Ridgemont

Mall.

INT. CARL'S JR.

Back-to-school banners hang from the walls. Many

kids are lined up at the counters. In the middle of

the kitchen, directing all the orders, is a

seventeen year old named Brad. He moves

confidently, observing the fryer, checking cup

supply, and giving an affectionate squeeze to a

pretty cashier named Lisa. She lets him kiss her,

but only once.

A teenage Customer shouts to Brad from the front

counter.

Brad smiles, walks over to the fryer and discards

the fries left from the previous shift. He shouts

to the other employees as he puts in a new batch,

"his" batch.

Brad spots three surfers sitting in the dining

area. None of them are wearing shirts.

ANGLE ON THE MAIN SURFER

a bleary kid sitting at the head of the table. He

runs a hand through his long, stringy blond hair.

After a time, he speaks.

ANGLE ON HANDWRITTEN SIGN IN WINDOW

that reads: "No Shirts, No Shoes, No Dice"

INT. CARL'S JR.

A store manager, Dennis Taylor, bustles up to Brad.

ANGLE ON SURFERS

grumbling, putting shirts back on. It pains them.

Dennis heads back to his office when he sees

something in the trash bin.

Brad laughs, goes back to work.

INT. MALL - LATE NIGHT

It is closed and only a few janitors remain. Stacy

and Linda walk through the large empty mall.

They pass a janitor cleaning graffiti that says:

LINCOLN SURF NAZIS and MAGGOT LUST FOR THE DUST.

A young Girl runs and catches up with Linda and

Stacy.

Linda nods.

Linda listens thoughtfully, then clicks into her

"sex expert" mode.

The Girl nods.

The Girl thanks Linda again. Linda and Stacy get to

the back exit of the mall and Linda uses a key to

open the door.

They exit the mall, into the night.

EXT. RIDGEMONT SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

We see all the elements of the first day of school.

The students carry new books, explore new lockers,

begin to stake out their ground.

Someone has taken the steel letters from the green

vanguard out front. It reads: "IDG MON SENOR HI

HO."

The rest of Ridgemont High is covered with toilet

paper. And a black spray paint message along the

side of the front office building reads, "LINCOLN

SURF NAZIS."

EXT. RIDGEMONT PARKING LOT - DAY

Brad pulls into the Ridgemont High parking lot. He

drives a beat-up, four-door model LTD sedan. Three

friends wait for him near his parking space.

They are dressed in the same golf caps with brand

logos on the front like CAT, NATIONAL and CHAINSAW.

Brad climbs out of his car and pats it admiringly.

Brad joins his friends, and they walk towards the

gymnasium.

EXT. RIDGEMONT PARKING LOT

We see a shiny, new, blue Mustang whip into the

parking lot. Students scatter from the parking

space. Behind the wheel is football star Charles

Jefferson. A huge, black kid. The halls at

Ridgemont part for Charles Jefferson.

Rat and Damone are in the parking lot. Damone

surrounded by underclassmen (customers) selling

tickets.

The underclassmen are impressed. They watch as

Jefferson opens his car door and stands to his full

height, over six-foot tall. He opens his trunk and

pulls out no books, just a football duffel bag. He

slowly walks by Damone, Rat and the underclassmen.

Jefferson gives Damone a death glare.

He moves on. Damone resumes selling tickets.

EXT. RIDGEMONT PARKING LOT

We see a clutching, smooching couple walk by.

Cheerleader Cindy Carr and her boyfriend, Gregg

Adams.

EXT. RIDGEMONT PARKING LOT - DAY

The Four Stoners (from Carl's Jr.) tumble out of a

van in the parking lot. They head towards the

gymnasium.

INT. RIDGEMONT GYMNASIUM - DAY

Standing by the A-B-C-D-E registration counter in

the gymnasium, Brad waits to pick up his red ad

card. He stands surrounded by his buddies. They nod

vigorously at everything Brad says. As he talks,

fellow students all say hello or pat him as they

pass.

One troubled-looking boy, Arnold, walks up to Brad.

Arnold speaks confidentially to Brad.

Brad notices Stacy and nods with complete inner

cool.

Stacy hurries off.

INT. U.S. HISTORY CLASS - DAY

Stacy barely slips in the door before the final

attendance bell sounds. She finds a seat just as

the teacher's cubicle door opens at the back of the

classroom. A tall figure comes barreling down the

aisle. He is Mr. Hand. The man makes a double-speed

step to the door at the front of the class, kicks

the door shut and locks it. The windows rattle in

their frames. Stacy watches, wide-eyed, at her

first high school class.

Mr. Hand writes his name on the green chalkboard

before his class. Every letter is a small explosion

of chalk.

An impatient knock begins at the front door of the

classroom.

The knock continues.

The mystery knocker tries a lazy calypso beat on

the front door. No one in Mr. Hand's U.S. History

class dares mention it, much less answer it.

Stacy grips her desk with the tension of her first

day.

Hand finally turns, as if he has just noticed the

sound at the door and opens the door an inch.

Jeffrey Spicoli stands in the doorway, red eyes

glistening. His long, blond hair is still wet and

streaming down the back of his white peasant shirt.

He grins, oblivious to such trivial matters as

attendance bells. A Student sitting near Stacy

turns to his friends.

Spicoli holds his red ad card up to the crack in

the door.

Spicoli laughs. He is the only one.

Mr. Hand takes the red ad card and reads from it

with utter fascination.

Mr. Hand slowly tears the card into little pieces

and sprinkles the pieces over his wastebasket.

Spicoli watches in disbelief. His hands are frozen

in the process of removing his backpack.

Mr. Hand moves to within inches of Spicoli's face.

It takes a moment for the words to work their way

out of Jeff Spicoli's mouth.

In the tense moment that follows, no one in the

class is sure what might happen.

Mr. Hand simply turns away from Jeff Spicoli as if

he ceased to exist and coolly continues his

lecture.

Hand begins passing out stacks of purple

mimeographed sheets.

ANGLE ON STUDENTS

all smelling the purple mimeographed sheets.

Still standing in the doorway, hyperventilating

with fifteen-year-old adrenalin, is Jeff Spicoli.

After a time, he fishes a few bits of his ad card

out of the wastebasket and huffs out of the room.

EXT. RIDGEMONT LUNCH COURT - AFTERNOON

It's packed. The school's outdoor dining area is

actually just a small courtyard lined with fast

food machines and dominated by a large oak tree in

the center. Standing at the center of lunch court,

under the large oak tree, is Brad Hamilton and his

golf-cap Buddies.

His Buddies shake their heads.

Brad sees another friend pass through lunch court.

Brad waits for him to pass.

EXT. LUNCH COURT - ANGLE ON THE 200 BUILDING

BATHROOM

near the outer rim of lunch court. Jeff Spicoli

comes stumbling out into the daylight, surrounded

by a small group of Ridgemont Stoners. Marijuana

smoke billows out behind them.

They all laugh, flip hair out of their eyes.

The Stoners go wild.

One surfer digs out a dollar for Spicoli. They look

out at lunch court, see it teeming with straight

kids. They turn and walk towards the parking lot.

EXT. LUNCH COURT - ANGLE ON STACY AND LINDA

as they walk onto lunch court. They take a seat on

the outskirts of the area and watch all the

students crowding onto the eating area.

The school couple, Cindy and Gregg walk by.

Stacy smiles. Gregg and Cindy move on, repeating

the same scene a few feet away.

Stacy turns to see a girl with short, black hair

passing by, wearing tight black spandex pants, and

dark lipstick.

They watch her pass.

Linda gestures out on lunch court.

ANGLE ON ANOTHER PAT BENATAR LOOK-ALIKE

wearing pink spandex pants and short-cropped black

hair with dark lipstick.

ANGLE ON STILL ANOTHER PAT BENATAR LOOK-ALIKE

wearing blue spandex pants and short black hair.

She stands a good distance away from the other two.

Linda looks at them with bemusement but Stacy is

wondering.

They sit and eat their lunches. Linda has her

perennial diet lunch of yogurt and raw vegetables.

She takes out a carrot stick and eases it down her

throat. Stacv tries one but chokes.

The girls try sliding the carrot sticks down their

throats without gagging.

ANGLE ON A BOY

at the next table; sees them and points them out to

his companions.

Stacy stops practicing and looks horrified. Linda

laughs.

They continue practicing as the boys look on. Stacy

manages to get almost a whole carrot down her

throat to Linda's amazement.

The group of boys break out in applause.

Stacy looks very embarrassed.

INT. BIOLOGY LAB - DAY

The class is situated so that all students sit at

Bunson burner tables lining the room.

Pat is seated at one of the tables and Stacy takes

a seat nearby; she looks at the ledge in front of

her. It contains a pig embryo. She listens to the

conversation next to her.

Stacy strains to hear more, just as Mr. Vargas -- a

diminutive man holding a coffee mug -- enters the

class.

ANGLE ON THE RAT

He is riveted on Stacy Hamilton, swooning.

INT. STACY'S ROOM - NIGHT

We see Stacy's room, a young girl's room with

posters and frilly pillows. Stacy is in bed, and

her Mother is just leaving the room.

Her Mother shuts off the light, exits. Stacy pulls

back the covers. She is fully dressed.

EXT. STACY'S WINDOW - NIGHT

We see the window to Stacy's room slide slowly

open, and watch her slip outside. She hikes down a

drainage pipe to the street.

EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT

A brown MG pulls up. Stacy jumps from the shadows

and hops in. The car drives away.

INT. RON'S CAR - NIGHT

Ron sits behind the wheel, humming casually along

to the music on his car stereo.

Ron has on a light-brown leather jacket. He looks

like a contestant for "The Dating Game."

He speeds off, turning up the radio to sing along.

We see Stacy's anxious face, as the car speeds up

Ridgemont Drive, with music.

EXT. THE POINT - NIGHT

Stacy and Ron sit in the car, listening to music.

The "point" is a natural lookout spot that lovers

can "discover." It is behind the baseball field and

dugout of Ridgemont High School.

Stacy and Ron get out of the car and walk to the

baseball dugout.

INT. DUGOUT - NIGHT

They sit side-by-side. Above them, a single light

bulb shines a very private fifty watts on things.

Silence. They look at each other, look away.

Ron leans over and kisses Stacy lightly on the

cheek. Stacy sits quietly for a moment, thinking,

was that the first move? Then she lunges at Ron and

kisses him square on the mouth. At first surprised,

Ron then holds her there and kisses her in return.

After a time, he breaks away.

They continue making out.

But they make no moves in any direction. They

continue making out. Ron begins unbuttoning her

blouse and massaging Stacy's breasts. A moment

later, he tugs at her pants. Awkwardly, she starts

to help him. He tilts her backward onto the

concrete dugout bench. They kiss feverishly, her

hand pulling off her shoes, then her pants. Ron

goes to work.

STACY'S POINT OF VIEW

as she feels a man enter her for the first time, we

see the graffiti above her:

EXT. SCHOOL LOCKERS - DAY

Stacy is standing by her locker, twirling the

combination. She is joined by Linda Barrett.

They both laugh and walk down the hall.

EXT. HAMILTON HOME - LATE AFTERNOON

Stacy arrives home. The Hamilton home has that

anonymous prepackaged tract look, like many others

in this lower-middle class neighborhood.

Brad washes his car in the driveway and listens to

the car radio.

Stacy bristles, and heads inside the front door.

INT. HAMILTON LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

The furniture in the Hamilton living room looks

like it was gleaned for a sale at Pic 'N Save.

Through the living room, one can see a very small,

kidney-shaped pool.

Stacy checks an erasable telephone message sheet

near the refrigerator. There are two names on it:

BRAD/STACY. Brad's side is filled with messages.

Stacy's is empty.

She notices a summer bouquet floral arrangement.

Stacy reads the attached note. It reads: "Memories

of You, Ron Johnson." She quickly gathers it up and

carries it back outside. She fans the door several

times to dispel the odor.

EXT. HAMILTON DRIVEWAY - AFTERNOON

Brad nods, as Stacy pushes the flowers into his

arms.

INT. DAMONE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON

Damone expertly fills two glasses three-quarters

full of Kahlua, then adds a few drops of milk.

Music is playing on a nearby speaker. Damone hands

The Rat a drink and checks himself out in his

mirror.

There is only a hint of peach fuzz, but he grooms

it anyway.

Damone turns around. His friend is preoccupied.

Damone takes a sip of his drink, looks at The Rat.

Damone quits puttering around his room with the

Kahlua and milk. He grabs a chair and straddles it.

Damone gets up, moves to the door.

He saunters over to the chair.

Damone knocks down the rest of his drink, and we...

INT. CARL'S JR. KITCHEN - NIGHT

We see Brad operating at full throttle in the

kitchen, and taking a moment to sneak a kiss with

his girlfriend Lisa as she goes to the front

counter to open up a cash register. She allows him

only one kiss.

She gives him a kiss... on the cheek.

She pulls away.

Brad shifts his weight, tries to find the right

words.

Brad prepares to respond. He squints his eyes,

prepares for a truly sizzling comeback, when Dennis

Taylor, short and prematurely balding assistant

manager of Carl's Jr., comes bustling out of his

back office. He quickly surveys the situation in

the kitchen.

Lisa returns to her cashier post, leaving Brad's

last words stalled in his mouth.

EXT. HAMILTON HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

We see the Hamilton's cul-de-sac home. All the

lights are off in the house at this hour. Except

for Brad's room.

INT. BRAD'S ROOM

Brad is alone in his room. He's prone on his neatly

made bed, reading a paperback book entitled Power

With Class. On the wall of Brad's room is a large

framed photo of a Carl's Jr. hamburger.

Brad hears a muffled knock at his door.

Stacy walks into Brad's room.

He begins pacing.

Suddenly, Stacy pops the question.

They laugh. Then Brad turns serious.

Stacy smiles and stands up. She playfully slaps her

brother on the arm and walks down the hallway to

her room. We can see there is less frill and lace

in Stacy's room. The junior high paperbacks are

gone. There are no dolls in sight.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Linda and Stacy walk past rows of cars. Stacy stops

at a brown MG.

They enter the mall.

INT. U.S. HISTORY CLASS - MORNING

We are now several weeks into the school year. Mr.

Hand is dropping test papers on desks like they are

pieces of manure.

Mr. Hand stops on a dime. He is like a champion

hunting dog that has just picked up the scent. He

scans the room.

There is silence in the U.S. history classroom.

Silence.

One student sitting next to Stacy raises his hand.

Mr. Hand snaps his fingers, Hawaii Five-O style.

Desmond hustles out the door.

Mr. Hand begins to pace the aisles as he speaks.

Occasionally, for emphasis, he bends down to

lecture directly into the students' faces.

Desmond returns to the room with a red-eyed Jeff

Spicoli.

Mr. Hand appears mesmerized. He then turns and

heads for the board. He writes in long, large

letters as he slams the chalk into the green board.

He writes: "I DON'T KNOW".

He stands back and admires it. He turns randomly to

Stacy.

We hear the blare of the dismissal bell. Stacy and

the other students get up to leave. Spicoli stays

in place. He has just figured out a truly bitchin'

comeback... and his mouth is forming the first

word, when Mr. Hand cuts him off.

Hand turns back to his desk. The rest of the

students have already left. Spicoli's audience is

gone. He shrugs and lopes out the door.

INT. RIDGEMONT MALL - AFTERNOON

It's Christmas time at the Ridgemont Mall. All

three tiers are strung with neon lights, and we

hear the sound of the bell-ringing Santas.

INT. SWENSON'S - AFTERNOON

Stacy and Linda are enjoying a brief lull in the

Christmas season madness. They sit at the sundae

bar. Stacy looks forlorn, almost red-eyed, as she

makes a sundae.

Linda nods her head, always the coach.

Stacy continues making her ice cream, slapping the

scoops onto the stainless steel dish.

ANGLE ON GREGG AND CINDY

who are seated at a back table, feeding each other.

Stacy looks at her finished sundae.

Linda punches Stacy lightly on the shoulder.

We follow Stacy, as she walks into the dining room

to serve the sundae.

INT. WHEREHOUSE RECORDS - MALL - DAY

We see a group of buzz-cut young toughs, walking in

formation, hunched over, sneering and wearing

sleeveless U.S. Army fatigue jackets. None of these

damaged-looking kids is over the age of fourteen.

They pass to reveal this legend on their backs:

LINCOLN SURF NAZIS.

Angle on Mike Damone and Mark Ratner, who are

standing by the upcoming concert list posted on the

door to Wherehouse Records. Damone sees the Surf

Nazis pass, turns to Mark Ratner, who is still

wearing his Cinema Four jacket.

Damone is approached by a couple of young ticket

Customers.

Suddenly we see all ticket business stop. Damone

and his customers see someone menacingly coming

directly for them. The small crowd parts as Charles

Jefferson, football duffel bag in hand, walks up.

With him is a thick, tough, miniature version of

himself. This is Little Charles. They both stop in

front of Damone.

Jefferson and L.C. push past the customers.

Damone turns to The Rat.

The Rat adjusts his jacket, and nods.

They walk together towards Swenson's, as The Rat

drapes his aqua-blue Cinema Four jacket around his

shoulders, like a French film director. Damone

walks a few steps, then stops Rat.

The Rat considers the suggestion, gets rid of the

jacket. They continue towards Swenson's.

EXT. SWENSON'S - DAY

The Rat pulls open the door to Swenson's. He walks

toward the counter to Stacy Hamilton.

The Rat feels the beginnings of cold panic, but

barges through nonetheless.

His voice becomes a shade deeper. He begins to pull

The Attitude together.

She reaches under the counter and pulls out a

cardboard box with some rumbled jackets and other

items.

The Rat chuckles to himself, struggling with The

Attitude.

Stacy smiles. He's obviously awkward, and she likes

it.

To The Rat's surprise, Stacy continues smiling.

He pulls one out of his jacket pocket, gives it to

her. Stacy writes her name and phone number on a

scrap of paper and gives it to him. The Rat looks

at the paper.

He sticks out his hand, and they shake. We see The

Rat turn around and walk out of Swenson's.

EXT. SWENSON'S - AFTERNOON

The Rat exits with ultimate cool. He sees Damone

waiting just off to the side, talking to some

girls. The Rat nods, gives him the thumbs-up.

Damone returns the gesture. All-Attitude.

EXT. CARL'S JR. - MORNING

Carl's is happening tonight. There are lots of kids

inside. We hear charging rock music -- "Girls Got

Rhythm" by AC/DC -- coming from a radio in the back

kitchen.

INT. CARL'S JR. BATHROOM - MORNING

Inside the bathroom, Brad Hamilton applies the

Carl's scrub brush to a felt tip graffiti message

near the mirror: I EAT BIG HAIRY PUSSY. He pauses

and catches himself in the mirror. He adjusts his

hair.

Brad pauses, looks at the mirror soulfully.

The bathroom door opens -- it's Arnold, the boy who

Brad got a job.

Brad nods, exits:

INT. CARL'S JR. COUNTER

Brad stands at the register.

We see a prominent display over Brad's head: TRY

OUR 100% GUARANTEED BREAKFAST. The last of many

harried businessmen customers gets his breakfast

order and takes his seat.

Brad is joined by Dennis Taylor, the Assistant

Manager.

Brad begins polishing the counter and Dennis Taylor

returns to his office at the back of the kitchen.

Brad watches him disappear behind the door that

says: ASSISTANT MANAGER.

As soon as Dennis disappears behind the door, the

one Businessman in the place rises and returns to

the counter.

The Businessman has short, curly brown hair. He

speaks in a whine.

The Businessman points to the huge display over

Brad's head: TRY OUR 100% GUARANTEED BREAKFAST.

Brad begins searching under the counter.

Brad begins looking to the restroom. "Where's

Arnold?"

Brad looks up from under the counter. No amount of

pay will make him take that kind of insult.

"Bam!" The door to the Assistant Manager's office

swings open, and Dennis comes hurtling out of the

back.

Angle on bathroom door as it opens and Arnold

starts towards the register. He quickly sees the

incident with the irate Businessman and ducks back

inside the bathroom.

Dennis wheels around to Brad.

Brad looks around, expecting his friends to defend

him. Dave and Rich seem very occupied with their

work. Brad is stunned.

Then Brad unhooks his fryer's apron and throws it

on the counter. He grabs a backpack and walks out

of the place. On the way, he bangs the bathroom

door with his fist.

INT. BRAD'S ROOM - DAY

He arrives back in his room and locks the door. He

yanks the burger picture off his wall, dumps it

into the trash. Then he takes it back out of the

trash and cracks the cardboard picture and plastic

frame in half.

DARKNESS

We are in the middle of a deep, dark void. After a

moment, a pinprick of light appears in the

distance. We head towards the light. We are being

led somewhere important.

As we draw still closer, curtains suddenly part to

reveal a wildly cheering studio audience. We hear

the voice of Merv Griffin.

The Merv Griffin Show band begins playing a Merv

Griffin Show version of AC/DC's "Highway to Hell".

Someone hands Jeff Spicoli a microphone. He works

the studio audience into a frenzy as he sings the

words to "Highway to Hell": Merv Griffin show

style.

Spicoli finishes up with a spectular pump. The

audience goes wild as Merv Griffin greets him

warmly, and guides Spicoli to his seat. Spicoli

motions for the cheers to die down. Griffin is

obviously happy to see him. He touches Spicoli's

arm lightly.

The audience howls. It's a famous Spicoli line.

The audience is howling again. He is Merv's

favorite guest.

EXT. A MASSIVE WAVE - DAY

The film clip begins. It is a mammoth wave cresting

against the blue sky.

A tiny figure appears at the foot of the wave.

The audience gasps.

We watch as Spicoli catches the perfect wave, and

it hurtles him through a turquoise tube of water.

The audience is howling once again... when suddenly

we hear the loud noise of a door opening, followed

by a shrill voice. It is Spicoli's eight-year-old

brother, Curtis.

Jeff Spicoli's dream of glory evaporates.

INT. SPICOLI'S TRAILER HOME - MORNING

It is a messy trailer, part of a trailer park by

the sea. Spicoli's area is small, but he has made

it his own. The walls are covered with posters,

almost all of them naked centerfolds. It is obvious

Spicoli's parents are not welcome in his room.

He groans, starts to struggle out of bed.

Spicoli reaches over to the floor next to his bed.

He pulls a snorkel from the mess, heaves it at the

door and his little brother. It bounces off the

wall and doesn't even hit Curtis, but the kid

starts crying anyway.

Spicoli gets out of bed, groans again, and kicks

the door shut.

EXT. RIDGEMONT GYMNASIUM

celebrating the big game with rival Lincoln High

School. We see Jeff Spicoli stumble from the

direction of the parking lot. He heads into the

gym, which is already full for a mandatory

assembly.

INT. GYMNASIUM - DOORWAY - DAY

Spicoli wanders into the assembly, takes a seat on

a corner bleacher. He sits just below Brad Hamilton

and Lisa.

On podium in front of assembly, Cindy Carr and

another cheerleader, Dina Phillips, are making a

presentation before the school.

ANGLE ON THE STUDENTS OF RIDGEMONT

They don't respond.

ANGLE ON JEFF SPICOLI

who is asleep in the bleachers.

ANGLE ON BRAD AND LISA

sitting nearby. We hear them over the drone of the

assembly.

They sit in silence for a moment.

TIGHT ANGLE ON BRAD'S FACE

as he accepts the news.

TIGHT ANGLE ON BRAD'S FACE

as it falls slack.

INT. GYM - PODIUM IN FRONT OF ASSEMBLY

There is unenthusiastic, minor applause from the

assembled students of Ridgemont High. Vice

Principal Ray Connors, a tough-looking man with an

H.R. Haldeman crew cut, approaches the podium. He

has a sour look on his face.

For the first time during this assembly, there is a

loud and hearty applause.

A GRAINY HIGH SCHOOL FILM 57

We are suddenly watching a movie shown on a class

projection screen. We see footage of a serene,

middle-class neighborhood -- as seen through the

glass windshield of a car. Judging from the other

vehicles parked on the street, the film is from the

early Sixties. We hear the narrative voice of Desi

Arnaz, speaking in his inimitable Latin accent.

A ball comes rolling out into the serene street. A

small child runs out after it. The driving of our

vehicle brakes, but not in time. The film freeze

frames on the terrified face of a child about to be

splattered.

There is a swell of dramatic music.

The words flash on the screen and we hear a high

school Driver's Training class groan in mock

horror.

INT. DRIVER TRAINING CLASS - DAY

ANGLE ON CHARLES JEFFERSON AND BRAD HAMILTON

who are seated in this class.

ANGLE ON LINDA AND STACY

sitting together in the class. They are oblivious,

lost in conversation.

Linda looks nauseous.

INT. DRIVER TRAINING CLASS

The film returns to another serene street scene as

seen through another front windshield.

We hear the very-present sounds of Driver's

Training students.

In the film, another car comes barreling from the

left, running a stop sign and exploding into the

side of the two-drink goner. In the class, the

Driver's Training students are howling.

EXT. RIDGEMONT MALL - EARLY EVENING

The parking lot is full. Kids and shoppers stream

through the entrance in groups of all sizes.

INT. RIDGEMONT MALL

All three levels are teeming with kids.

ANGLE ON THE VIDEO PINBALL ARCADE

where we see Jeff Spicoli manning the Missile

Command machine. Spicoli wears a red bandana across

his forehead. A cigarette dangles from his mouth.

He is surrounded by a fleet of young surfers who

listen to him with reverence.

The youngsters hang on every word of the sage

advice.

ANGLE ON A GANG OF SURF NAZIS

walking in formation.

ANGLE ON MIKE DAMONE AND MARK RATNER

walking the mall.

Damone and The Rat walk on. The Rat is barely

interested. He appears deep in thought.

Damone, obviously in his element here at the mall,

stops to flash a winning smile at a well-built

older housewife.

As he talks, Damone passes a Country Farms shop. He

plucks a free sample of cheese and sausage.

The Rat and Damone continue on.

The Rat nods, always the student, as they pass a

Wherehouse Record store. Damone stops right in

front of a seductively posed life-sized cardboard

stand-up of Debbie Harry, the alluring rock singer.

Damone begins his speech.

Damone turns to the cardboard cutout of Debbie

Harry to demonstrate.

He turns to Debbie Harry, who looks on with an

inviting cardboard smile.

ANGLE ON DEBBIE HARRY

with the same inviting smile.

Standing there in the front of the Wherehouse, The

Rat nods his head and smiles. He's finally

beginning to understand, and we...

EXT. THE RAT'S CAR - LATER THAT NIGHT

We see The Rat behind the wheel of a green Volvo.

Stacy sits beside him. They are driving the streets

of Ridgemont.

INT. THE RAT'S CAR

This is it. The Big Date. "Led Zeppelin IV" is on

the car stereo of his sister's van.

Finally...

Silence.

EXT. THE RAT'S CAR

He rounds the corner of Luna Street, off the neon

fast-food stand that is Ridgemont Drive.

INT. THE RAT'S CAR

Yet another silence has fallen. Then, after a

time...

Silence.

EXT. ATLANTIS RESTAURANT - NIGHT

They pull into the parking lot of a steak and

lobster house called The Atlantis.

The Rat finds a parking spot near the back of the

lot, grateful that the long silence is over. He

walks with Stacy to the front of The Atlantis.

INT. THE ATLANTIS - NIGHT

The Rat and Stacy are escorted by the host to a

nearby table. They are given large wooden menus.

The Rat leans back in the booth. He is starting to

feel in control now. Then something hits him. The

panic sweeps across his face.

Slowly, The Rat reaches back to check his wallet.

It's gone.

Cool. Cool was the name of the game. Stay cool.

Just as The Rat is about to get up, the Waitress

approaches the table.

The Rat gets back up again, looking paler by the

minute. He excuses himself and walks over to the

pay phone by the Atlantis toilets.

The Rat dials a number. Damone answers.

INT. DAMONE'S ROOM - NIGHT

He is sitting in a chair, leaning onto the back two

legs, watching television.

There is silence.

ANGLE ON DAMONE'S TELEVISION

as we see the flickering images of Leave It To

Beaver.

INT. ATLANTIS

The Rat hangs up, mildly relieved, and returns to

the table.

INT. STACY AND THE RAT'S TABLE - AN HOUR LATER

The Rat and Stacy have finished the meal, and

desert.

ANGLE ON THE CHECK

as it sits in a little tray before The Rat.

The Waitress approaches the table. It is clear she

wants to make room for other customers and bigger

tips.

ANGLE ON FRONT DOOR

as Mike Damone finally walks in. Damone looks over

the diners, then feigns great surprise when he sees

The Rat.

Stacy smiles politely, with the slightest sparkle

in her eye, as the Waitress returns with the two

Cokes.

ANGLE ON STACY

looking strangely at the proceedings.

Damone leaves. The Rat takes a few quick gulps of

Coke, and gets up to pay the bill. As he moves out

of camera range, we see the strange look on the

faces of waitresses and diners.

INT. THE RAT'S CAR - LATE EVENING

The Rat pulls up to Stacy's house in the cul-de

sac. He stares straight ahead, like a zombie.

The Rat nods glumly.

We see a confused but interested look on The Rat's

face.

INT. THE HAMILTON HOUSE - EVENING

They walk in the front door. The Rat stands

uncomfortably in the doorway to the living room.

Stacy turns her back and pulls up her hair.

ANGLE ON THE RAT'S FACE

as the wheels inside his mind start to spin. This

can't be what it seems. He unzips Stacy, past her

bra, down to the small of her back. It's the first

time he's ever done anything like that.

She walks down the hall to her room, easing out of

her dress as she walks. She leaves the door to her

room open.

ANGLE ON THE RAT'S FACE

He is completely unsure of himself, as he begins to

walk down the hall. His heart pounds into his

throat. He turns the corner and steps into Stacy's

room.

INT. STACY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Stacy stands there, looking gorgeous in an almost

seethrough white robe. The Rat pretends not to

notice.

ANGLE ON THE RAT'S FACE

as he struggles with the memory of Damone's words.

"Always call the shots."

Stacy goes to her closet, reaches up to grab the

books from the top shelf. The Rat watches her robe

slip up her legs. Then she sits down next to him.

Her knee grazes his. It is almost too much for The

Rat. Go for it. We see The Rat struggle with the

action of putting his arm around her. He almost

does, but then reacts as she says suddenly...

Her knee grazes him again. Does she expect

something?

The Rat struggles. Try as he might, he can't seem

to cross the line. He can't make his move. He is

woeful as he completes the sentence.

Suddenly, The Rat is seized with ambition. He

reaches one hand around her right shoulder and

plants the other hand directly on her left breast.

It looks something like a wrestling hold. The Rat

looks at Stacy. Stacy looks back at The Rat. The

Rat is absolutely frozen.

She shrugs him off, walks him to the door.

EXT. THE HAMILTON HOME - NIGHT

We see The Rat's forlorn face as he trudges towards

his car. He stops. He takes a breath -- it wasn't

that late, he really didn't want to leave. The Rat

turns and begins walking back up the Hamilton

steps. Just as he does so, Stacy's bedroom light

clicks off. It was too late. He kicks at his car.

Behind him, recklessly speeding towards Ridgemont

Drive, is Charles Jefferson's blue Mustang.

EXT./INT. THE BLUE MUSTANG - NIGHT

Jeff Spicoli is behind the wheel. Sitting next to

him is Little Charles, "L.C.", Jefferson's younger

brother. They're smoking grass and holding

Lowenbrau beers in between their legs. The radio is

blasting the music of Rick James.

They speed off down Ridgemont.

Spicoli sees something in the rearview mirror.

Spicoli slows down. The car behind him slows down.

The high beams switch on behind Spicoli.

The car behind Spicoli then advances to the point

where it is now almost touching the blue Mustang.

The mystery car bumps them lightly from behind.

The two boys start yelling. High beams fill the

Mustang with bright light and...

EXT./INT. MUSTANG AND GRANADA

Then mystery car pulls back, then up alongside

Spicoli and L.C. on the left. We hear the music on

the radio of George Thoroughgood's "Ride On,

Josephine".

The drivers of the two cars eye each others. Then

the Granada begins inching over, trying to force

Spicoli off the road.

Spicoli guns ahead, in a real bullet move, and

easily overtakes the Granada. Spicoli is proud of

himself. He checks himself out in the rearview and

turns to L.C.

Spicoli pulls way ahead of the Granada, while L.C.

rolls his window up. Spicoli looks over to L.C. and

smiles wickedly.

Now Spicoli wants to show off. He pushes the pedal

to the floor.

Spicoli fingers the bubbles in the wheel.

EXT./INT. MUSTANG

on the word "ease", Spicoli curls his finger into

one of the Mustang steering wheel bubbles and whips

it clockwise. The idea is to turn off onto a side

street and head back to the party. But instead, at

the moment of the hairpin turn, L.C. is attempting

to switch the radio station. Spicoli crooks his

finger farther into the bubble than he expected.

The car swings in a complete circle, a circle that

includes a bright yellow fire hydrant. The hydrant

rips the side of the car open like a can of tuna.

There is a silent moment of terror.

There is silence. Outside the smashed car, the

Granada Jocks pass Spicoli and L.C.

Then L.C. stirs and utters his first words.

ANGLE ON THE BLUE MUSTANG

waffled and mangled. It is just inches away from

scrap iron.

MONTAGE OF SHOTS

as we see Ridgemont High gearing up for its big

Homecoming Game against Lincoln. We see a series of

shots of kids talking about it, wagering on the

chances of a Ridgemont victory. We see the many

signs and placards all over school, proclaiming

Ridgemont revenge. We see students lining up to

vote for Homecoming King and Queen in the

gymnasium. It is the most spirit that Ridgemont has

shown this year.

EXT. RIDGEMONT SCHOOL - FLAGPOLE - DAY

From the back of the parking lot, we see a crowd

around the flagpole. A group of kids are staring at

something. They sadly shake their heads at the

sight, as if they are witnessing a funeral.

As we draw closer, we see the center of commotion.

It is an ugly sight. Someone had wrecked Charles

Jefferson's Blue Scholarship Mustang and welded it

to the flagpole. Spray-painted on the side was the

message: LINCOLN SURF PUNKS RULE.

EXT. RIDGEMONT BLEACHERS - NIGHT

The Ridgemont football bleachers are full of

cheering students. We see the same basic groups

from lunch court, and many more.

The cheerleaders are on the field -- Cindy Carr,

Dina Phillips and company -- and their cheerleader

"husbands" sit directly in front of them in the

stands. Linda and Stacy sit in the bleachers with

some of the Swenson's girls. The Rat and Damone sit

several rows above them, watching. The teachers sit

together in another section.

ANGLE ON BRAD HAMILTON

who is again sitting alone in the bleachers.

Watching. Several old lunch court friends pass by,

on their way to the concession area.

Brad says nothing more. The students look at each

other.

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD - THE GAME - NIGHT

Everyone is cheering the amazing game on the field.

Charles Jefferson is poised on the offensive line.

He mutters a string of obscenities at the opposing

Lincoln player. The ball is snapped, and Charles

Jefferson comes directly at the player with both

elbows up and angled to hit inside his helmet. The

Lincoln player is hit and keels over.

Charles Jefferson sets up for another play. The

ball is snapped. Ka-boom. Down falls another

Lincoln player. Jefferson doesn't know who it was

who wrecked his Mustang, but he wasn't about to

spare any of them. There is pure madness in his

eyes. It has taken him over.

The Ridgemont points rack up. Jefferson is single

handedly maiming Lincoln for Homecoming.

EXT. RIDGEMONT BLEACHERS - NIGHT

We see Jeff Spicoli and L.C. sitting calmly in the

bleachers, watching.

EXT. FIELD AND SCOREBOARD

The half-time gun fires and the score is 36-7...

Ridgemont. Even the Ridgemont players steer clear

of Charles Jefferson as they return to their locker

room.

EXT. THE HAMILTON POOL - HOT AFTERNOON - SEVERAL

WEEKS LATER

Linda and Stacy are sitting by the pool, dressed in

string tie bathing suits. They are listening to the

music of Tom Petty's "Breakdown" playing on the

living room stereo. Linda luxuriously applies

suntan lotion to her chest and legs, in long and

writhing strokes. Stacy reads a book. It's called

Total Orgasm. Several beats pass.

Linda continues regally applying lotion.

Linda stops applying lotion, considers that

thought.

They laugh. Linda resumes applying the lotion.

Stacy continues reading the book. A couple of beats

pass.

Stacy looks at Linda, almost disbelieving.

There is a noise by the side fence leading into the

Hamiltons' backyard. It is Mark Ratner and Mike

Damone. They are already wearing swimsuits.

Stacy quickly stashes the book in a stack of towels

beside her. She leans over to Linda and speaks

confidentially.

Stacy smiles, gets up and goes over to the fence.

EXT. HAMILTON POOL

Mike Damone yells "banzai!" and dives into the

small pool. At one end of the pool is the jacuzzi,

which is separated by a tile wall. Damone has

already poured the Wisk into the jacuzzi, and the

detergent has created a huge bubble bath effect.

Damone surfaces and flips into the jacuzzi.

Stacy, looking great in a green bikini, sits

kicking her legs by the side of the pool. Linda

stands on the board. She is poised to dive. The Rat

treads water and stares at both girls. Inside the

Hamilton living room, the family stereo plays the

music of Deep Purple's "Woman From Tokyo".

Brad arrives home by the side gate and slams it

behind him. He is home from a bad day at work. He

walks out onto the patio and stands with his hands

on his hips. For the first time, our former campus

hero looks absurd. He is still in his uniform from

Captain Kidd Fish and Chips -- it is a blue and

white striped Pirates of the Caribbean outfit,

complete with black plastic sword at the side, and

a ridiculously large Ponce de Leon-esque hat. Brad

carries the hat under his arm.

Brad ignores the underclassmen, and notices Linda

on the board in her maroon bikini. He smiles.

Brad turns and heads back inside. He is just out of

earshot when they begin talking about him.

Stacy breaks the spell by jumping into the water,

surfacing, and flipping over the tile wall into the

Jacuzzi. She sits next to Damone, looking

mischievous.

ANGLE ON DAMONE AND STACY IN THE JACUZZI

talking while the others are at the other end of

the pool.

ANGLE ON THE RAT

casually catching sight of them together from the

other side of the pool. We can read the emotions on

The Rat's face. He is still taken with Stacy, but

his big moment for her appears to have passed.

ANGLE ON DAMONE AND STACY IN THE JACUZZI

as they talk.

Underneath the water, her leg accidentally knocks

against his. Then he feels her continue. Damone

feels Stacy's cool hand on his inner thigh. Moving

upwards, stopping just short of the bulge in his

trunks.

ANGLE ON DAMONE'S FACE

as it loosens and quivers just the slightest bit.

This is uncharted territory, even for Mr. Attitude.

ANGLE ON LINDA

who is now sunning herself by the side of the pool.

She rubs her legs against each other, slowly,

enjoying the hot afternoon.

EXT. BRAD'S WINDOW - ANGLE ON BRAD

who is watching Linda from the window in his room.

We see him from behind, peeking out the curtains.

EXT. POOL - ANGLE ON LINDA

who smiles at Damone and flips back into the pool

with a splash. Damone steals a look down at his

swimsuit. He's popped a big one.

ANGLE ON DAMONE'S FACE

and we know he can't get out of the water yet.

Linda, for one, loses interest quickly. Standing by

the side of the pool, she jams a finger in her ear

and wiggles it.

Linda towels off and heads back inside the Hamilton

house. She knows how to walk.

INT. BRAD'S BEDROOM AND BATHROOM - AFTERNOON

We see Brad's room. The Carl's burger picture on

the wall is conspicuously missing. There is music

playing from his stereo -- Pink Floyd's "You and

Me".

We see Brad. He is kneeling on the bathroom floor,

his back to us. His green T-shirt is on, his

underwear in a pile on the floor behind him. His

arm is pumping slowly. Brad is jacking off.

EXT. HAMILTON POOL - BRAD'S DAYDREAM

It features Linda Barrett, just as she stood on the

diving board a moment ago. She is gorgeous. Her

breasts seem even bigger than usual. Her nipples

are hard, poking through the film maroon string

bikini. Water rolls slowly down her cheeks, into

the corners of her mouth. Her lips are parted

slightly. Her eyes are filled with desire as she

says...

ANGLE ON BRAD IN DAYDREAM

in a nice shirt, his hair combed back and looking

great. He walks to Linda. She reaches out and grabs

him for a kiss, pulling him close. Then she pushes

him away, so he can watch as she carefully unstraps

the top of her bathing suit. The incredible Linda

Barrett's breasts fall loose.

She takes Brad's hands and places them on her, as

she begins unbuttoning his shirt. They are just

about to fall into passionate lovemaking when we

hear...

The daydream evaporates and we see real life again

with an...

INT. BRAD'S BATHROOM - ANGLE ON LINDA'S FACE

in the doorway of Brad's bathroom as she watches

the sight before her.

ANGLE ON BRAD

trying to cover himself and act nonchalant and keep

his back turned at the same time. The words barely

escape his mouth.

Linda turns and goes immediately, as if she wants

to forget what she saw as quickly as possible. She

closes the door behind her.

ANGLE ON BRAD

still kneeling. It had all happened so quickly, so

fast

He slams the toilet seat down and we...

INT. U.S. HISTORY CLASS - DAY

The third attendance bell rings, and Mr. Hand

strides to the front of the class. He locks the

door. Then he takes the front of the class and

notices something very different.

ANGLE ON JEFF SPICOLI

bright and clear-eyed, sitting in the front row.

His hands are clasped in front of him on the desk.

His textbook is open to the proper page.

Mr. Hand is suspicious, but continues with class.

Mr. Hand begins pacing the aisles as he talks.

There is a brief, sharp knock at the door. Mr. Hand

whips his head around, like McGarrett. He

approaches the door like a cat.

Hand swings the door open, out of curiosity. In

walks a young Man in a Mr. Pizza delivery shirt.

Jeff Spicoli speaks up.

The Delivery Man takes the pizza, sets it on the

desk, as Spicoli whips out some crumpled dollars.

Then he produces yet another crumpled dollar, and

presses it into the Delivery Man's hand.

The Delivery Man thanks him warmly, just as Mr.

Hand rages into the picture.

Mr. Hand is so furious he's almost shaking.

Mr. Hand snatches up the pizza, and starts to throw

it in the wastebasket. Then he thinks better, and

heads for the door. He opens it just as a gang of

young Stoners walk past.

Mr. Hand pushes the pizza into their hands and

slams the door.

Spicoli eases back in his chair, shrugs. It was a

good idea at the time.

INT. CAPTAIN KIDD FISH AND CHIPS - DAY

Brad Hamilton, looks terribly uncomfortable in his

Ponce de Leon hat and buccaneer uniform. He rings

up an order for an older Customer.

He bags one final coffee and punches up the amount.

Brad loosens his buccaneer scarf, and starts back

towards the kitchen. He is stopped by the sudden

appearance of Captain Kidd Assistant Manager,

Harold.

Brad dutifully unhooks his apron, to reveal the

bottom half of his pirate suit.

While Harold leans down to tally up the fish order,

Brad goes to a nearby employee's closet. He has

completely perfected the art of changing back into

his street clothes, and it takes less than a

minute. He is just about to finish buttoning his

street shirt when Harold sees him.

Harold can barely fathom the idea.

ANGLE ON BRAD

as he stands there, stoic looking.

He begins taking off his street shirt. He looks at

Harold, looks at the boxes, and returns to the

closet.

INT. THE CRUISING VESSEL

Brad is driving down the freeway, listening to the

music of Bruce Springsteen's "Out in the Streets."

He pries open one of the fourteen Catch-of-the-Day

boxes on the seat next to him and pulls out a small

piece of fried fish. Brad takes a bite.

The look on his face says it is the worst piece of

shit he has ever tasted. He throws the piece out

the window, and drives on.

Brad turns to see a girl smiling at him from

another car. It makes his afternoon. He returns the

smile with gusto.

ANGLE ON THE GIRL

as she bursts out laughing and drives away.

ANGLE ON BRAD

looking perplexed. Then he realizes that he hasn't

taken his Ponce de Leon hat off. Brad drives on.

A SERIES OF ANGLES ON BRAD'S CAR

as we see the Cruising Vessel move down the

highway. We see the Captain Kidd hat go flying out

the window. Then the plastic sword, and the scarf.

Then a couple boxes of Captain Kidd fish. Then the

rest of them. We see Brad rip past the IBM

Building.

EXT. RIDGEMONT HIGH SCHOOL - AFTERNOON

School is out and kids are leaving campus, heading

for the parking lot and bus stop. We see Mike

Damone carrying some books, walking towards

Ridgemont Drive. He is joined by Stacy Hamilton,

who hurries to catch up to him.

Damone turns to her after a moment, all Attitude.

Stacy walks along, then stops and looks at Damone.

They turn the corner.

EXT. HAMILTON HOME

They have arrived at Stacy's house. There are no

cars parked out front. No one is home.

The Attitude starts to weaken. After a long pause,

Damone responds.

Stacy unlocks her front door, they go inside.

INT. HAMILTON KITCHEN

Damone stands in the white linoleum Hamilton

kitchen. Stacy opens the refrigerator door.

Stacy places a glass of ice tea in front of him.

They are all alone in the house.

Damone stares straight ahead. She's going to her

room to change. Stacy scoots down the hall toward

her bedroom.

INT. STACY'S ROOM - ANGLE ON STACY IN HER ROOM

In the middle of changing, she has caught her own

reflection in the mirror. She pauses a moment,

looking at the young girl looking back.

INT. KITCHEN - ANGLE ON DAMONE IN THE KITCHEN

He continues staring straight ahead.

Damone doesn't move. He pretends he doesn't hear. A

moment later, Stacy comes bounding back down the

hall in her green bikini. She grabs Damone by the

arm.

She pulls him away.

INT. THE CHANGING ROOM

They enter the wood-panelled changing room next to

the Hamilton pool. There are two swimsuits hanging

from wooden pegs.

She locks the door to the changing room and begins

to walk towards Mike Damone.

He could feel his leg starting to shake the

slightest bit.

She gives him a kiss.

She gives him another kiss. He kisses her in

return. Standing there, feeling Stacy in her

bikini, feeling her kiss him, Damone also felt some

of his reservations slip away.

It is clear that this is as far as Mr. Attitude has

ever gotten with a girl. Stacy takes the

initiative, rubbing her hands through his hair,

rubbing his sides, kissing his neck, then pulling

away.

Damone nods, and watches as Stacy unhooks her top

and steps out of her bikini bottom. She stands

naked in the shadows of the afternoon sun. She sits

down naked on a red changing room couch, and

gathers her legs up to her chest. She watches as

Damone struggles with his clothes.

ANGLE ON DAMONE

hopping on one leg, pulling first out of his pants,

then his jockey underwear. Bashfully, he goes to

sit next to Stacy on the couch. They begin to kiss,

and it quickly escalates into heavy petting. Stacy

pulls away.

Stacy leans back and pulls him on top of her. He

enters her and begins pumping so hard, so fast,

that he doesn't notice he's banging the sofa into

the wall of the changing room.

But just as quickly as Damone starts, he stops.

He has a strange look on his face.

They lay there, Damone still on top of her on the

red couch.

ANGLE ON DAMONE

as we read the confusion on his face. He is

embarrassed, a little confused... mostly he just

wants to be alone.

ANGLE ON STACY

as she looks up at him. She gives him a kiss.

Damone gets up puts his pants and shirt on. He

leaves the changing room.

INT. BIOLOGY CLASS - AFTERNOON

We see Stacy sitting at her usual seat, and she's

wearing a bright spring dress with a slight amount

of makeup.

She looks at Damone's seat with anticipation, but

it remains empty as other students file in.

Finally, she turns to The Rat.

The bell rings, and Mr. Vargas enters the room with

his Sanka cup.

INT. COLLEGE COUNSELOR'S OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Seated at the desk is Mrs. O'Rourke. There is a

knock at the door.

The door swings open. Brad Hamilton holds out his

yellow slip.

There is no humor on Mrs. O'Rourke's face.

Brad looks up suddenly.

Brad gathers his books and opens the door to leave.

An absolutely exuberant Cindy Carr pops her head in

the door.

EXT. RIDGEMONT HALLWAY - MORNING

The bell has just rung, and Mike Damone comes out

of Youth and Law class. He has an absorbed, driven

look on his face. He walks past the rows of

lockers, and doesn't even notice as he passes Stacy

Hamilton standing by her locker. She smiles, grabs

his arm affectionately.

Damone turns to see her, is thoroughly unimpressed.

He pulls away, leaving a bewildered Stacy standing

by her locker. She grabs some books and hurries in

the other direction.

EXT. SCHOOL BUS - DAY

The bus pulls up to the front entrance of

University Hospital. The students file out and

collect next to the front door. Mr. Vargas

gleefully addresses the class. This is his favorite

field trip.

INT. MATERNITY WARD

The class exits from a hospital elevator, onto

another floor. They are now standing outside the

maternity ward. We hear the loud noise of babies.

The class moves on.

INT. THE BOTTOM FLOOR

The class exits another hospital elevator.

ANGLE ON DR. MILLER

a young intern who has joined the class for the

last part of their tour.

The kids are beginning to get very nervous now as

they are led down the hall to the "Cold Room." The

door to the "Cold Room" has only one sign on it. It

reads: CADAVERS -- MEDICAL EXAMINATION ONLY. Mr.

Vargas opens the door, and the class seems to gasp.

INT. THE COLD ROOM

There are six examination tables in the "Cold

Room". Each of them contains a cadaver covered by a

white sheet. Mr. Vargas has gathered the class

around one table in particular. He fingers the edge

of the white sheet as he talks.

A student raises his hand.

ANGLE ON JEFF SPICOLI

who turns to Stacy.

Mr. Vargas suddenly pulls the white sheet aside and

we see the body of Arthur. The students' eyes

widen. Some gasp. Others cover their mouths. Others

begin furious notes. Nobody speaks. The body of

Arthur is smallish and withered. It is orange,

flaky, and not quite real looking. A deep cut has

been made in Arthur's chest.

Mr. Vargas bends Arthur upright for a better

student view. He gestures to the deep cut made in

Arthur's chest.

The tension mounts.

ANGLE ON ARTHUR

and his shrunken face, which seems to say please

don't.

Mr. Vargas grabs the two sides of Arthur's chest

cavity covering, and rips it open.

With a squish, Mr. Vargas reaches inside Arthur and

pulls out the human heart for display. The class

stands in silent shock. Only one comment escapes

from any of them.

ANGLE ON STACY HAMILTON

who goes running out of the "Cold Room", holding

her mouth. The Rat runs after her.

INT. BOTTOM FLOOR HALL

Rat and Stacy sit side-by-side on some orange

plastic chairs, by a nurse's desk. Stacy is shook

up.

She squeezes his arm.

EXT. HOSPITAL - AFTERNOON

The students file out of the hospital, looking like

they've just been through a war.

INT. LINDA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

It is night, and Linda and Stacy are watching

Fantasy Island.

Stacy is fighting back tears. Linda looks angry.

Telephone rings. Linda jumps to get it.

Linda obviously is disappointed when she hears a

female voice.

She plops back on the couch with Stacy.

She notices that Stacy is crying over the TV show.

Linda shuts off the television.

Linda sits down next to Stacy on the bed.

She puts the TV back on and they watch.

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD - TWO DAYS LATER

Stacy Hamilton is walking towards Mike Damone on

the football field. We see him from a distance,

timing track runners.

He clicks off the time on a runner, and then turns

to face her.

ANGLE ON STACY

as she looks down. They are words she never thought

she would be speaking.

ANGLE ON DAMONE

as he realizes she is sincere, and he truly begins

to panic.

ANGLE ON STACY

She does not flinch.

ANGLE ON DAMONE

He hugs his arms tighter across his chest, and

decides to try a more mature tact.

Stacy stands there, hands folded, nodding.

INT. DAMONE'S ROOM - AFTERNOON

He is working at his desk, counting through a wad

of money.

ANGLE ON THE LIST

in front of him, which has a split line down the

middle. People Who Owe Me -- fifteen dollars Rick.

People I Owe -seventy-five dollars REO Speedwagon

tickets, seventy-five dollars abortion. Damone

counts fifteen dollars into his stack, crosses out

Rick. Then he counts through the money. Seventy

five dollars exactly. He crosses out REO Speedwagon

tickets. This leaves him no money for the abortion.

EXT. STREET CORNER - AFTERNOON

Here, at the same corner where she once waited for

Ron Johnson, Stacy waits for Damone. Cars pass, no

Damone.

INT. HAMILTON HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Stacy is on the phone, calling Damone. We see the

phone messages sheet that lists two calls for

Stacy, and none for Brad. The line rings four

times, then it's answered.

Stacy sags, disbelieving, and looks at the clock on

the kitchen wall. It's getting late...

Stacy is stunned.

Stacy hangs up. She punches out another number,

quickly.

She looks at the clock again, then hears a noise in

the driveway.

She runs out.

EXT. CRUISING VESSEL - AFTERNOON

Brad and Stacy pull up next to the flea market.

She gets out of the car.

EXT. FLEA MARKET

Stacy Hamilton watches her brother drive away. Then

she looks to both sides, and walks on. She passes

the entrance to the Flea Market. She walks around

the corner to another building marked BIRTH CONTROL

- FREE CLINIC. Brad follows her in the rearview

mirror.

INT. BIRTH CONTROL CLINIC

Stacy is lying in bed wearing a paper dress. Her

hair is stuffed in paper shower cap. She looks

anxious. In a bed next to her an older girl is

being affectionate with her visiting boyfriend.

A Nurse comes in with an IV.

She sticks the needle into Stacy's hand. Stacy

looks pained but doesn't yell. The Nurse pats the

rolling bed.

Stacy moves onto it. Looking up from her point of

view, we see the ride out of the room and into:

INT. OPERATING ROOM

Stacy gets wheeled in. The Doctor looks down at

her.

Stacy moves onto the operating table as the Nurse

and Doctor get ready.

The Doctor pauses and considers her question.

Stacy looks up at the lights and listens to the

sound of suction tubes.

INT. B.C. WAITING AREA

The other girl and Stacy sit at a table eating

toast and jelly. The girl is reading. The Nurse

enters.

The girl nods and gets up.

The Nurse studies her, decides she's telling the

truth and allows her to leave.

EXT. ENTRANCE TO THE FREE CLINIC

Stacy walks back out into the sunlight, slowly and

weakly. She is surprised and amazed at who she sees

standing outside, waiting for her.

ANGLE ON BRAD HAMILTON

He stands, hands on hips, just outside the door.

He puts an arm around her and leads her toward his

waiting car.

He helps her into the cruising vessel. He starts up

the car and drives off.

Stacy stares out the window. Tears well in her

eyes.

Stacy smiles at Brad. Brad smiles back. The car

drives on.

INT. LINDA'S ROOM - NIGHT

Stacy is in Linda's room, sitting on her bed. Her

eyes are red and moist from crying. Linda listens

to her story.

Stacy lies back on the bed.

EXT. DAMONE HOUSE - MORNING

The front door to the Damone house opens, and out

walks Mike Damone carrying some books. He looks

troubled, burdened, and stares down at the walkway

as he moves towards his car. He walks around,

starts to pen the car door, then he sees it. There,

in white spray paint across the driver's door, is

the message: PRICK.

He looks both ways, and starts back towards the

house.

EXT. DAMONE CAR

Mike Damone travels down Ridgemont Drive, making

the turn into the school parking lot. There is a

large cardboard panel taped on the side of his car.

EXT. DAMONE'S LOCKER

He arrives at his locker, where, in white spray

paint, there is another message: LITTLE PRICK.

Several girls walk by, they laugh knowingly.

Damone backs up against the locker, with a sick

smile on his face.

More students pass, looking strangely at the young

man pinned against his own locker.

EXT. BOY'S LOCKER ROOM - AFTERNOON

Damone exits the boys locker room. Just as he does,

he is accosted by The Rat. We have never quite

heard this tone in The Rat's voice before.

Damone feigns The Attitude, shakes his head. Damone

sighs.

The Rat says nothing.

Damone starts to push past him, but The Rat shoves

his shoulder hard.

Damone begins the classic high school fighting

ritual. He throws his books down. He takes a step

back. He goes into a crouch. He gestures towards

himself. Then Damone says the universally

recognized high school fighting words.

The Rat shows no fear. As other kids begin to crowd

around the two boys, Rat throws his own books down.

He takes a step back, goes into the crouch. He

gestures toward himself.

They stand there, gesturing, neither one of them

wanting to make the first move.

Assistant Coach Mr. Sexton comes running out of the

boy's locker room, and steps in front of the two

boys.

The Rat stalks off, disappearing into the crowd of

onlookers.

EXT. RIDGEMONT DRIVE - NIGHT

The Ridgemont Drive strip is filled with cars,

cruising for parties. There is a lot of honking,

and yelling out windows. Everyone is headed towards

the beach. We stay on a lowly 7-11 store near the

freeway entrance.

EXT. 7-11 STORE - NIGHT

A yellow Firebird slowly, menacingly cruises the

empty parking lot. It does not stop.

Then, around the corner, walks Jeff Spicoli. We see

him in the neon 7-11 light, his hands stuffed deep

into the pockets of baggy jeans. He walks inside

the store. He is the only shopper.

INT. 7-11 STORE

Brad Hamilton stands behind the counter in a red

and white striped shirt and cap, making fresh

coffee. Jeff Spicoli trudges up to the counter. He

looks at Brad. Brad looks at Spicoli. There is an

unspoken edge between them.

Brad squints his eyes, looks at the sign on the

back room door.

ANGLE ON

sign which reads: Rest Room For Employees Only.

Spicoli disappears into the back room. Brad sighs,

looks at the clock. It reads: 11:15. Then he hears

Spicoli from the back room.

Brad sighs again. He loads a new filter into the

coffee maker.

EXT./INT. 7-11 STORE

A moment later, the yellow Firebird pulls into the

7-11 parking lot. A man in a windbreaker comes

hurtling out of the car, into the store. He spray

paints the scanning camera above the door. He

hustles up to the counter, produces a .45 Magnum

and points it chest high at Brad. There is a glazed

and nervous speedy edge to his voice.

Brad looks pale and young under the fluorescent 7

11 light.

He speaks slowly.

He bangs the gun on the counter, hard.

Brad slowly moves to the donut case, like a zombie.

Brad opens the phony back of the donut case and

fiddles with the strongbox combination.

Brad looks at the gunman.

The Robber is about to react when the bathroom door

opens and Jeff Spicoli starts out, wiping his hands

on his pants.

The Robber turns to look at Spicoli, and that is

all that Brad Hamilton needs. Just like it is the

most natural thing in the world, Brad reaches for

the hot, steaming coffee pot he has just made and

throws it into the gunman's face and hands.

The .45 falls out of his hand and rattles to the

floor. The gunman is still grabbing his face, and

looking at his skinless hands in horror when Brad

snaps up the gun. In the parking lot, the gunman's

accomplice, poised behind the wheel of the yellow

Firebird, spots the foul-up and screeches out of

the parking lot.

Brad pulls the under-counter alarm with newfound

confidence. Jeff Spicoli stands there, mesmerized

at the entire event.

EXT. RIDGEMONT MALL - NIGHT

Kids are pouring into the Ridgemont mall. Summer

banners are already up.

INT. THE MALL - NIGHT

In the midst of all the kids and shoppers, we see

The Rat walking slowly down the promenade. He is

wearing an Army surplus jacket, and his hands are

buried deep in his pockets.

Two girls pass his way. One smiles briefly at him,

and The Rat turns to watch her pass. He is about to

say something to her, then no. He walks on, sees

Swenson's Ice-Cream Parlor up ahead. The Rat

decides to walk the other way.

INT. SWENSON'S - NIGHT

The place is busy again, filled with shoppers and

teenagers in summer-type clothing.

We see Stacy Hamilton, once again, at the cash

register wearing an Assistant manager name tag and

a hostess gown.

She handles a customer's bill, then stands there a

moment, looking glum. Linda Barrett approaches.

ANGLE ON

the back kitchen door, which swings open, and out

comes Mike Damone in a peppermint Swenson's shirt.

He wipes some grime on his pants.

The two girls smile, go back to their posts.

INT. JEFF SPICOLI'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jeff Spicoli sits in his room, and it is his

castle. Clothes lie in disarray on the floor. A

huge half-waxed surfboard is propped against the

window. We see Spicoli dressed in a too large white

short-sleeved shirt, attempting to tie his father's

fat paisley tie. He stops to take a hit from his

bong, all the while talking on the phone. The music

of Lynyrd Skynyrd's "Freebird" plays on the radio.

Spicoli listens for a moment. He rubs his eyes,

shakes his head. He is really buzzed.

Spicoli hangs up, and concentrates on tying his

tie. He almost strangles himself. Then suddenly the

door to his room flies open and Spicoli's little

brother Curtis bursts in.

Curtis slams the door and leaves. A moment later

there is a knock.

The door swings open and Jeff Spicoli sits in

stoned shock at the sight before him. There,

standing in the doorway of his room is Mr. Hand.

Spicoli can only nod.

Hand walks into Spicoli's room, takes off his suit

jacket and lays it on the chair back. He stops a

moment and catches the stare of Miss January

Penthouse on the wall, then turns to Spicoli.

Hand removes several copies of Oui Magazine from

another chair and sits down. He sets his briefcase

on Spicoli's dresser, next to a bag of pot, and

opens it up for easy access.

Mr. Hand takes a sheet from his briefcase and looks

at it.

He returns the sheet to his case and looks into

Spicoli's weed-ravaged eyes.

Hand reaches in his case and produces the book. He

hands it to Spicoli.

INT. SPICOLI'S ROOM - HOURS LATER

Wearily, Spicoli is trying to grasp the material.

ANGLE ON MR. HAND

who nods his head.

Hand reaches over and gets his case.

Mr. Hand pauses a moment, then breaks into the

nearest approximation of a grin we have seen all

year. It isn't much, but it's noticeable. His lips

crinkle at the ends.

Mr. Hand has now gathered all his material, and he

stands to approach Spicoli's door. Jeff jumps up,

extends his hand.

Mr. Hand exits the room, and descends the staircase

of the Spicoli household. Spicoli kicks the door

shut, grins, and continues struggling with his tie.

INT. RIDGEMONT GYMNASIUM - NIGHT

Tight angle on the emotion-filled face of the lead

singer in a cheesy high school band called the T

Birds. He is bathed in a blue light, singing the

last verse of The Eagles' 'Take It To The Limit'.

We pull back to reveal a large, clumsy banner

reading: LAST DANCE. Students are pouring into the

gym for this event. Many have brought their annual

yearbooks. On stage, the lead singer snaps his

fingers and the band goes into Nick Lowe's 'Heart

of the City'. Some students start to dance.

Every one of our characters is either here, or

about to arrive. From Charles Jefferson to Spicoli

to Mr. Hand. For once, all classes are partying

together. But, just as in the beginning of the year

on lunch court, the kids are still cordoned off

into their distinctive cliques.

ANGLE ON MORE STUDENTS ARRIVING

at the Last Dance. They see Mr. Hand signing

annuals by the door. They all say the same thing as

they pass, "Aloha, Mr. Hand". He nods in return.

ANGLE ON STACY

surveying the growing mob of annual-crazed

students. From behind her comes Linda Barrett in a

low-cut black dress.

ANGLE ON MIKE DAMONE

in another part of the dance, by the Junior class

sponsored food counter. Damone is standing, talking

to several girls, gesturing and being Damone, Mr.

Attitude.

The girls look at each other, laugh. They walk

away.

ANGLE ON THE RAT

standing nearby.

ANGLE ON JEFF SPICOLI

sprawled out in the bleachers with his surfer

stoner buddies. He turns to one admiring stoner

(Todd).

Spicoli slips the annual into the kid's crotch. The

stoner winces in pain, but still opens the book and

lingers on all the signings in Spicoli's annual.

They are all drug-related messages from fellow

stoners. After a moment, Spicoli's friend signs:

"Thanks for the reds. Todd."

INT. GYMNASIUM - ANGLE ON DOOR

Brad Hamilton pushes both doors open, and makes his

entrance into the Last Dance. There is a lot of

activity going on, but all nearby eyes turn to Brad

as he walks into the dance. Fifteen kids

immediately gravitate towards him. They all want

Brad to sign their annuals, to talk about the 7-11

incident. Onstage, the T-Birds play the Beatles'

"It Won't Be Long".

We see Brad's old girlfriend Lisa push up to him.

Her new jock boyfriend holds a protective arm

around her.

Lisa's boyfriend pulls his arm tighter around her.

Brad smiles, nods. He signs, and gives her his. We

then see Brad's three Buddies from Carl's Jr. come

up, pat him on the back and grab his shoulder. Brad

studies them warily.

Brad leaves his old buddies. He grins and notices

someone across the crowded dance floor.

They laugh, flip him off. Brad is back in his

element at last. He moves into the main dancing

area, works his way across the room, past the

bleachers, when he hears a voice.

Brad turns around, seen Spicoli sitting on the

bottom rung of the bleachers. Spicoli looks back

with true respect.

He throws Brad his annual. Brad gives him his. They

sign.

ANGLE ON THE BLEACHERS

where several couples are passionately making out.

Four teachers clomp up into the stands from

different angles. They pin the couples in

flashlight beams, like the main tower pinning an

escaping prisoner.

ANGLE ON THE T-BIRDS

onstage, singing the Rolling Stones' "I'm Free".

EXT. GYNMASIUM - NIGHT

We see Jeff Spicoli leave the dance and come

backing down the stairs with a stoner bud. His fist

is in the air.

He turns to his stoner bud.

Spicoli backs right into a young buzz-cut kid.

Spicoli turns around to see he's backed into a

squad of eight Lincoln Surf Nazis. They are all

standing on the steps, waiting.

Spicoli looks up and down the row of Surf Nazis. On

the end, he sees L.C.

Spicoli dashes off down Luna Street. L.C. and the

Surf Nazis take out in hot pursuit, chasing him

through the parking lot, past Ridgemont High, and

into the night. They will never catch him.

INT. RIDGEMONT MALL

School is out and it's summer business as usual at

the Ridgemont Mall. We see the same stores, the

same packs of kids roaming the three tiers.

ANGLE ON MARK RATNER

who stands against the railing in his Cinema Four

jacket, gazing across the mall at Swenson's Ice

Cream Parlor. He sees Stacy walk two girlfriends to

the outdoor front tables, and almost look his way.

The Rat turns away suddenly. Then he hears her

calling out after him.

Ratner turns around, affects total and complete

cool. He waves across the mall to her.

He looks back at his post at the theatre, decides

it's okay to step away. He walks across the mall.

INT. SWENSON'S

Stacy is standing by the sundae bar. Next to her

are two empty stools. After a moment, we see The

Rat plop onto one of the metal stools. He pounds

the seat next to him with the palm of his hand.

Stacy turns to look at him, smiles. She sits.

The Rat maintains The Attitude.

The Rat looks at her from the corner of his eyes.

She withdraws a picture from her pocket, hands it

to The Rat.

She gives him a kiss on the mouth, gets up and

walks away. The Rat sits there, smiling at the way

things sometimes turn out. He slips the picture

into his pocket, a satisfied young man.

INT./EXT. SWENSON'S AND MALL

The Rat is joined by Mike Damone, who has changed

into his street clothes.

The Rat snickers, shakes his head.

The Rat turns to look at his friend.

They take off together, blending into the crowd of

kids walking the mall.

Damone laughs, shoves him hard. We lose sight of

the two boys in the sea of kids.

A SERIES OF ANGLES

of Ridgemont Center Mall with music.

CREDITS

