?

MONTAGE OF PHOTOS

RAY (V.O.)

My fathers name was John Kinsella.

A faded, sepia shot of a dirty little kid on a farm.

RAY (V.O.)

Its an Irish name. He was born in

North Dakota, in 1896...

Young man in doughboy uniform.

RAY (V.O.)

...and never saw a big city until he

came back from France in 1918.

Chicago. Tenement. Comiskey Park. Ballgames.

RAY (V.O.)

He settled in Chicago, where he quickly

learned to live and die with the White

Sox. Died a little when they lost the

1919 World Series...

Newspaper headlines. Photo of Shoeless Joe Jackson.

RAY (V.O.)

...died a lot the following summer when

eight members of the team were accused

of throwing that Series.

Dad (a catcher) playing ball. At work. Weeding.

RAY (V.O.)

He played in the minors for a year or

two, but nothing ever came of it. Moved

to Brooklyn in 35, married Mom in 38,

and was already an old man working at

the Naval Yards when I was born in 1949.

Ray as an infant. With his father. In front of Ebbets Field

in miniature Dodger uniform, etc.

RAY (V.O.)

My names Ray Kinsella. Mom died when

I was three, and I suppose Dad did the

best he could. Instead of Mother Goose,

I was put to bed at night to stories of

Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig...and the great

Shoeless Joe Jackson. Dad was a Yankees

fan then, so of course I rooted for

Brooklyn. But in '58 the Dodgers moved

away, so we had to find other things to

fight about. We did. And when it came

time to go to college, I picked the

farthest one from home I could find.

Berkeley in the 1960s: hippies, protesters, etc.

RAY (V.0.)

This, of course, drove him right up the

wail, which I suppose was the point.

Officially my major was English, but

really it was the Sixties.

Ray looking foolish in long hair and tie-dye.

RAY (V.O.)

I marched, I smoked some grass, I tried

to like sitar music... and I met Annie.

Annie: blue jeans, T-shirt, freckles. Their courtship.

RAY (V.0.)

The only thing we had in common was that

she came from Iowa and I had once heard

of Iowa. We moved in together. After

graduation, we moved to the Midwest, and

stayed with her family as long as we

could.

Unsmiling American Gothic types.

RAY (V.O.)

Almost a full afternoon.

The apartment, Ray at different jobs, the wedding.

RAY (V.0.)

We rented an apartment and I took a job

selling insurance. I also drove a cab

and worked in a pizza parlor. Dad died

in June of 1 74. Annie and I got married

that fail.

Baby pictures.

RAY (V.O.)

A few years later Karin was born. She

smelled weird, but we loved her anyway.

Then Annie got the crazy idea that she

could talk me into buying a farm.

Ray, Annie, and four-year-old Karin by the "SOLD" sign of

their farm. Ray in a cornfield.

RAY (V.0.)

I'm thirty-eight years old and I'm about

to become a farmer. I love my family,

I love baseball, and I miss New York.

Moving in on Ray's face.

RAY (V.0.)

But until I heard The Voice...I'd never

done a crazy thing in my whole life.

2 THE CORNFIELD - DUSK

It is dusk on a spring evening. The sky is a robin's-egg

blue, and the wind is soft as a day-old chick. Ray

Kinsella is working in the cornfield when a voice -- like

that of a public address announcer -- speaks to him.

'If you build it, he will come.'

Ray looks up and around, but sees nothing that could be the

source of this sound. All around him are empty fields.

He stands quietly for a few moments, then goes back to

work.

'If you build it, he will come.'

Ray jerks his head in all directions to see where this

voice is coming from, but again, he sees nothing unusual

-- just the furrowed fields and a few hundred feet away,

the massive old farmhouse with a sagging veranda on three

sides. On the north veranda is a wooden porch swing where

Annie and Karin sit, sipping lemonade and dreaming.

Annie, what was that?

What was what?

That voice.

What voice?

Just now. Like an announcement.

Annie confers briefly with Karin, then calls back to Ray.

We didn't hear anything.

Oh.

Ray thinks for a second, then shakes it off, trying to

dislodge that thought from his mind, and gets back to work.

'If you build it, he will come.'

Again, he bolts upright and looks around. Again, he sees

nothing. This is beginning to bug him. He calls:

Okay, you must've heard that.

3 ON THE PORCH

Annie and Karin lock at each other and exchange a shrug.

Annie extends her arms palms upward, and calls to Ray.

Sorry. Come on. Dinner.

Annie leads Karin inside.

4 -IN THE FIELD

Ray looks all around him with an "Okay, fellas, what's the

joke?" look on his face. But there is no one there. He

puts down his tools and walks toward the house.

5 INT. KITCHEN

Ray enters, looks at his wife skeptically and joins his

wife and daughter setting the table.

Was there like a sound truck on the

highway, or something?

Nape.

Kids with a radio?

Nope. You really hearing voices?

Just one.

Ah. God?

More like a. . .ballpark announcer.

Annie shoots him an "Are you kidding?" look. Ray responds

with a shrug. They sit down to eat.

What'd it say?

'If you build. it, he will come.'

If you build what, who will come?

He didn't say.

Ooh, I hate it when that happens.

Me too.

6 RAY AND ANNIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

They are snuggled together, asleep. All is quiet. Then:

'If you build it, he will come.'

Ray's eyes pop open. He looks at Annie, who does not stir.

Without moving, he looks around the room. There is no one

there. Very quietly, he crosses to the window and looks

out. He whispers out toward the cornfield:

Build what? For who?

Behind him, Annie stirs.

Ray?

It's okay, honey, I'm just-talking to

the cornfield.

He sighs and goes back to bed. Annie cuddles up to him.

Her eyes are closed, but Ray's eyes remain open. He is

puzzled and concerned.

insists he is conversing with an invisible rabbit.

8 RAY AND ANNIE'S KITCHEN MORNING

ittle Karin is watching Harvey while she eats her

breakfast. Ray enters, looking like he had very little

sleep, and promptly turns the TV set off.

Why'd you do that? It was funny.

Trust me, Karin, it's not funny. The

man is sick. He's very sick.

Annie enters, putting on her coat.

Karin, if you're finished, get your coat

and school bag. Let's go.

Karin bolts from the table.

Uh honey, I'll take her today. I'v-e got

some errands in town.

Far out.

She takes off her coat and kisses Ray as he takes-the car

keys and heads outside. Annie sits at the kitchen table.

What if the voice calls while you're

gone?

Take a message.

Right.

He exits. She grins, turns on the TV and watches Harvey.

9 EXT. IOWA CITY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY 9

Ray's car pulls up, Karin runs out and Ray drives off.

10 INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY 10

Ray is plugged into some weird-looking contraption, having

his hearing examined. Then the Doctor shines a penlight

into his eyes, shrugs, and starts putting his gear away.

Well, I can't find anything wrong. I

could recommend a shrink, but hey,

people hear things all the time. I

heard a voice once. I was still living

with my parents, 'then. They worked in

the circus, so I was raised in the

circus, and I was training to be a

clown. This one day, I'm putting on my

little red nose and I hear a voice,

tells me to go to medical school. Here

I am.

Ray is not sure if he should ignore this or run.

11 FARM SUPPLY STORE - DAY 11

Farmers are loading up with seed, fertilizer, and other

farmer stuff. This is the kind of place where people also

linger to exchange gossip, swap lies, and pass the time.

Ray is off to one side, chewing the fat with an old-timer.

In all those years, did you ever...

I've heard that sometimes farmers out

in the field...hear things. Voices.

You hearing voices?

No. It's just that I heard some farmers

do, and... I, of course, don't, so I was

wondering if I was doing something

wrong, or something. Did you ever hear

voices out there?

(calls from her

Who's hearing voices?

Ray is. Out in the fields.

Now, everyone in the store turns to look at Ray.

No! No, I'm not. Really.

But the people still stare. Ray addresses them.

Noises! That darn tractor, it's...

(forces a nervous

Well, I'll just get some 3-in-1 oil,

that should...

Nice talking to you.

12 RAY'S FARM - DAY 12

Ray is out in the fields again, hard at work. A breeze

picks up. He stops fora moment, cocks an ear and looks

around. All he sees are the empty fields. Insects make

the only sounds. He goes back to work. Then:

'If you build it, he will come.'

He throws his tools down angrily and looks all around, but

there is no apparent source of the voice. Ray is pissed.

All right, who are you, and what the

hell do you want from me?!?

All he hears is a faraway echo.

'If you build it, he will come.'

This is serious. Ray shakes his head and repeats the words

to himself.

If you build it...

As he thinks about these words,,some unexplained impulse

causes Ray to turn his head deliberately toward a portion

of the cornfield between him and the house.

13 A BASEBALL FIELD L3

For the briefest of moments, the dreamlike image of a

baseball field at night, illuminated by floodlights, flares

in over the lawn. Standing on the edge of the field, is

the figure of a man with his back to us. Before we can see

anything else, the image disappears.

Ray's eyes widen.

. he will come'.

i5 THE MAN AND THE FIELD 1 5

The dream image flares in again, this time closer to the

man. He stands in the middle distance, silhouetted by the

lights, and we see he is wearing a uniform of some kind.

He starts to turn slowly towards us, but before we can see

his face, the image disappears.

16 CLOSE ON RAY

Ray's mouth opens. He half-laughs, as if to say "This

can't be." But whatever is in his mind won't go away.

.he will come.

Now we see him in head-and-shoulders. He has the muscular

neck of an athlete. As he slowly turns we start to see a

bit of his weathered face before the image flares out.

Wheels are turning inside his head. He is trying to figure

all this out. In the distance, a bell is ringing. He

looks O.S.

19 EXT. HOUSE - DUSK

Annie is on the veranda ringing the dinner bell hanging by

the front door.

Yo, Ray! Food!

20 HER POINT OF VIEW - THE FIELDS 20

We see Ray emerge slowly from the fields, the twilit sky

changing colors behind him.

Annie leans against a post, lazily watching Ray approach.

She likes how he moves, and how he looks.

Hiya, cutie.

Ray climbs up the steps, accepts her kiss, and instead of

following her into the house, pulls her down with him onto

the swing. He takes-her hand and looks into her eyes.

Annie...

Ray...

You're not going to believe this...

You heard the voice again.

Wait, this gets better, I just saw a

vision.

Get out of here!

I swear to God. An actual vision.

We're going to have to burn you at the

stake if this keeps up.

I know.

22 INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

family is eating dinner. Ray seems lostin thought.

Hey, you don't suppose this could be

like an acid flashback, do you?

I never took acid.

Maybe you will someday, and it's a flash

forward.

Annie, there's more.

You're subscribing to the Enquirer.

I think I know what 'If you build it,

he will come' means.

Oooh, why do I not think this is a good

thing?

I think it means if I build a baseball

field out there, Shoeless Joe Jackson

will get to come back and play ball

again.

You're kidding.

Uh uh.

She whistles. This is serious.

Yeah.

23 INT. KARIN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Ray and Annie are putting little Karin to bed.

Boy, I thought my family was crazy, but

this...this is the craziest thing I've

ever heard.

I know. It's totally nuts.

I mean, Shoeless Joe, he's...

Died in '51.

And he's the one they suspended, right?

Right.

He still dead?

Far as I know.

24 INT.'BATHROOM - NIGHT

Ray and Annie in their pajamas, brushing their teeth,

getting ready for bed.

You know what amazes me? No one could

ever get you to believe in astrology,

or ESP, or reincarnation, or heaven, or

any of that stuff. But this...I think

this shows real personal growth, Ray.

Thank you.

Annie smiles, but sees that Ray is troubled. She hugs him.

Oh, sweetie. I hope you know that even

though I make jokes, I'm going to visit

you every month wherever they put you.

He offers her a weak smile and exits.

25 INT. RAY AND'ANNIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

It is dark. For a few seconds it is quiet. Then:

Did you know Babe Ruth copied his swing?

If I did, I'd forgotten it.

Ray sits up in the dark.

I always felt cheated I never got to see

him play. He was supposed to be so

graceful, and agile. So to actually get

to see him play again...to let him play

again, to right an old wrong...

He shakes his head in wonder just to think of it. Annie

turns on the light.

Wait a minute, Bosco. Are you actually

thinking of doing this?

I mean, I can't think of one good reason

why I should,-but...

(takes a breath)

I'm thirty-eight years old, I have a

wife, a child, and a mortgage, and I'm

scared to death I'm turning into my

father.

What's your father got to do with this?

Ray tries to picture his father in his mind. He speaks

softly, but the words obviously have a great deal of

meaning for him.

I never forgave him for getting old.

By the time he'was as old as I am now,

he was ancient. He must have had

dreams, but he never did anything about

them. For all I know, he may have even

heard voices, too, but he sure didn't

listen to them. The man never did one

spontaneous thing in all the years I

knew him. Annie, I'm scared that that's

what growing up means. I'm afraid of

that happening to me. And something

tells me this may be my last chance to

do something about it.

(looks at her)

I want to build that field. Do you

think I'm crazy?

She looks at him with great understanding.

Yes.

He smiles wanly. She touches his face lovingly.

I also think that if you feel you really

have to do this... then you should do it.

They hold each other's gaze, and Ray cannot remember when

he has loved her so much. He takes her in his arms.

Outside their window, the field of corn lies waiting.

26 THE CORNFIELD - DAY

Stalks of corn wave slowly in the breeze. A bee buzzes

near one. The light is yellow. Suddenly, the stalks bend

violently to the ground as Ray's tractor plows them under.

27 ON THE TRACTOR 27

Ray drives, Karin rides shotgun, holding the large detailed

diagram Ray has drawn of the ballpark's dimensions.

Ty Cobb called him the greatest left

fielder of all time. His glove was

called 'the place where triples go to

die.'

in history.

Karin whistles.

By the side of the road, an old man and woman stand and

watch these neighbors-plow under their. corn. They look at

each other as if to say "Could it be Communists?"

KARIN (V.0.)

Why'd they called him Shoeless Joe?

30 SEEDING THE FIELD - DAY 30

It is days later, an area the size of a baseball field has

been plowed under, and Ray is seeding it.

RAY (V.O.)

When he was still in the minors, he

bought a new pair of spikes and they

hurt his feet. About the sixth inning

he took them off and played the outfield

in just his socks. The other players

kidded him, called him Shoeless Joe, and

the name stuck.

31 WATERING THE GRASS - NIGHT- 31

We can see roughly where the grass has been planted, and

where the dirt will be smoothed out for the base paths.

Ray stands stock-still in the moonlight, water hose in

hand, patiently misting the baby grass, little Karin at his

side.

RAY (V.0.)

Then in 1919, his team, the Chicago

White Sox, threw the World Series.

KARIN (V.0.)

What's 'threw'?

RAY (V.0.)

They lost it on purpose. Gamblers paid

them to.

32 SIDE OF THE ROAD

Now, dozens of families stand to watch silent and

dumb-eyed, at what has obviously become a daily spectacle

among the townspeople. Some snap photos.

RAY (V.0.)

Except Shoeless Joe.

33 SMOOTHING OUT THE FIELD - DAY

Ray smooths out the base paths with a large roller, as

Annie and Karin follow behind with rakes. On either side

of the base paths, the infield and outfield grass is

growing.

RAY (V.0.)

Nobody could prove anything one way or

another, but he was the one guy who

probably wasn't in on it.

34 INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY

Ray, Annie and Karin wait as the cashier totals up their

load of lumber and hardware.

I mean if he was supposed to be throwing

it, how do you explain the fact he hit

375 for the series and didn't commit

one error? Huh?

I can't.

34 CONTINUED 34,

Twelve hits, including the series' only

home run. And they said he was trying

to lose!

It's ridiculous.

That's 855 dollars, sixty-four cents.

From O.S., we hear oooh. Ray turns and notices for the

first time that a crowd of spectators -- employees and

customers -- has been watching him and whispering among

themselves. They look at him as if he had two heads.

Ray turns his attention back to writing a check for his

purchases. He deadpans to Annie:

We'd better notify Mars to send us more

money.

Remlak won't like that.

That's his problem. And tell him to

make it in Earth dollars this time.

Ray hands over the check to the open-mouthed cashier.

Thank you. Have a nice day.

Ray and Annie turn and leave with Karin. The farmers

watch, obviously trying hard to figure this one out.

35 BUILDING THE OUTFIELD WALL - DAY 35

Ray hammers the braces that will support the outfield wall.

Karin hands him nails from a bag she wears around her neck.

RAY (V.O.)

There's a famous story about when he

came out of the courtroom, a kid ran up

to him, tugged his sleeve and said 'Say

it ain't so, Joe.' And Jackson looked

down t him and said 'I'm afraid it is,

kid.'

Then what happened?

36 BUILDING THE BLEACHERS 36

Annie helps Ray lift a board to what will be the top row.

The Commissioner of Baseball suspended

eight of the players -- including the

great Shoeless Joe Jackson -- for life.

What's suspend?

They never let him play the game again.

They continue to work in silence.

37 INT. SPORTING GOODS STORE I 7

Ray writes a check for his purchases: bats, balls, bases

pitcher's rubber, home plate, etc. He appears slightly

annoyed that once again, he is being stared at by all the

uniformed employees of the store. He turns to catch the

Store Owner staring at him the most intently.

What. What!

You're the fella that plowed under your

corn and built a baseball diamond,

right?

Yeah. What about it?

(shakes his hand)

Greatest damn thing I ever heard.

The other employees beam their agreement.

At these prices, I'm not surprised.

He wheels his shopping cart of sporting goods out through

a gauntlet of approving salesmen. They smile and pat him

on the back. Ray cannot decide if they're crazier than he

is.

Thank you...thank you...

38 THE LIGHT STANDARD - NIGHT 38

Atop the aluminum-painted poles, an array of store-bought

floodlights switch on, flaring against the blue-black sky.

In this sharp white light the grass glows parrot green,

cool as mint, soft as a cashmere blanket. Annie and Karin

watch as Ray puts down the clean white bases, which pick

up the light like little moons on a cold, clear night.

My father said he saw him years later

playing under a made-up name in some

tenth-rate league in Carolina. He'd put

on fifty pounds, and the spring was gone

from his step, but he could still hit.

Dad used to say no one could hit like

Shoeless Joe.

Ray is smiling wistfully.

That's the first time I've ever seen you

smile as you mentioned your father.

Ray considers that.

How come?

Come on, you. Bed time.

Annie hoists Karin on her shoulders with a grunt, and the

three climb their way down the bleachers. Ray's hand

steadies Annie as she takes one of the steps.

Careful...

Moonl ight butters the Iowa night. They walk along the side

of the field, and Ray stops. He looks at the field.

I have just created something totally

illogical.

That's what I like about it.

Am I completely nuts?

Not completely.

She looks out over the baseball field.

It's a good baseball field, Ray.

It is kinda pretty, isn't it?

Annie smiles at him and carries Karin inside. Ray steps

onto the porch and flicks the switch shutting off the

floodlights over the field.

39 RAY AND ANNIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 39

Annie opens her eyes and sees Ray not beside her in bed,

but in th window seat, looking out at the empty field.

Barely awake, she gets out of bed, shuffles to his side and

curls up against him.

Any sign?

Something's going to happen out there.

I can feel it.

Annie lowers her head against his chest and goes back to

sleep. Outside, the trees are fully leafed.

40 RAY'S BASEBALL FIELD - OCTOBER 40

The trees are almost bare now, and there's a Halloween

pumpkin in the front window of the house. The cornstalks

,rustle like crumpling paper in the Indian-summer breeze

which blows fallen leaves across the empty baseball field

while Ray sits in the stands... waiting.

41 THE BASEBALL FIELD - LATE DECEMBER 41

it is covered with snow.

42 INT. RAY AND ANNIE'S HOUSE 42

Ray looks forlornly out the living room window towards his

snow-covered baseball field, the merrily blinking lights

of the Christmas tree behind him belying his true mood.

43 SPRINGTIME - DAY

A baby robin tries to pull a worm out of the around.

Inside the house, Annie is doing spring cleaning. She

looks out the window to see:

44 THE BASEBALL FIELD

Ray mowing the outfield grass. He stops, looks around,

listens, hears nothing, and continues mowing.

just watches him.

We see the first exhibition game of spring training from

Florida, as the announcer talks about a "southpaw" pitcher.

47 INT. RAY AND ANNIE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 47

Little Karin watches the TV, while Annie and Ray sit at the

living room table, financial ledgers spread out before them

as they struggle with their accounts.

Daddy, what's a southpaw?

A left-handed pitcher.

How bad is it?

Well, given how much less acreage we

have for corn, I'd say we'll probably

.almost break even.

Jesus.

We've spent all our savings on that

field.

KARIN (O.S.)

Daddy..

Just a minute, Karin.

So what are you saying? We can't keep

the field?

It makes it real hard to keep the farm,

Ray.

Ray closes his eyes.

KARIN (O.S.)

Daddy...

(a little testy)

In a minute, Karin.

KARIN (O.S.)

There's a man out there on your lawn.

Ray opens his eyes and turns to see Karin kneeling on the

kitchen counter, looking out the window. Ray and Annie

exchange a quick glance, and Ray walks to the window.

48 EXT. THE WINDOW

seen from outside, as Ray's head appears and looks out.

He sees something out there and just looks at it.

49 RAY'S POINT OF VIEW

Hi es wearing a baseball uniform.

Anold-fashionedone.

Ray turns to Annie. She looks out and nods thoughtfully.

Annie stays very calm in emergencies.

We'll put up some coffee. You go ahead.

Ray takes a breath and steps out onto the veranda. The

night sky seems close enough to touch.

51 EXT. HOUSE

On the porch wall, Ray finds the switch, holds his breath,

flicks it and the floodlights sputter to life.

steps onto the field. On his uniform is a large "S" with

an "O" in the top crook, an "X" in the bottom, and an

American flag with forty-eight stars on his left sleeve.

walks through the swirling ground mist toward the field.

54 RAY'S POINT OF VIEW

Moving closer to the field we see the Man standing out in

left field. Feet spread wide, body bent forward from the

waist, hands on hips, he waits.

Ray's mouth is dry. He reaches home plate and picks up one

of the bats lying beside the pail of hard balls. The back

of his neck tingles. Then, he picks up one of the balls.

56 IN THE OUTFIELD

The Man spreads his feet, pounds his small, old-style

glove, and waits to field the ball.

57 AT HOME PLATE 57

Ray tosses the ball a few feet into the air and swings at

it. And misses. His face reddens, he clears his throat,

and tries again. This time he connects.

He has hit a grounder that would be easily fielded by a

shortstop had there been one, but it bounces through and

falls into left field. The Man runs in for it, scoops it

up cleanly and throws it back to the plate.

Ray is thrilled. He hits another ground ball, and this

too, is fielded cleanly. Then another, which the Man

deftly short-hops. Ray hollers out to him.

How's the field play?

It's good. The ball bounces true.

Ray smiles with pride. He tosses up another ball, gives

it his best swing, and is thrilled to see he has actually

lofted one into the air. But into center field. The Man

sprints across the outfield, and makes a lovely catch in

short center. Instead of throwing the ball in, the Man

runs it in, loping toward home plate. Ray's heart thumps.

Hi.

The Man nods at him, takes the bat, and tests it to feel

its weight.

Ray Kinsella.

Joe Jackson.

Ray is thrilled to hear the words spoken. It is Shoeless

Joe Jackson after all, who stands not five feet away from

him, trying out all the bats now. Ray isn't quite sure if

he should talk, or ask questions, or just stand there.

Finally, he can't help himself.

I bet its good to be playing again,

huh?

It was like having part of me amputated.

Joe looks over at Ray, now, his dark eyes evincing the pain

his steady voice tries to conceal.

I've heard that old man wake up and

scratch itchy legs that've been dust for

fifty years. That was me. I'd wake up

in the night with the smell of the

ballpark in my nose and the cool of the

grass on my feet. The thrill of the

grass...

He has found the bat he likes.

Can you pitch?

Yeah, I'm not bad.

Joe hands Ray the bucket of balls. Ray can barely contain

his excitement as he races to the mound. He stands on the

rubber and faces Joe at the plate.

Don't we need a catcher?

Not if you can get it near the plate,

we don't.

Ray smiles, takes a breath and starts his windup, during

which he says aloud to himself:

I am pitching to Shoeless Joe Jackson.

He makes a pitch. It's not a very good one, and Joe has

to step across the plate to make contact, but his swing is

graceful, compact and effortlessly powerful. He drives the

ball against the fence.

Ray watches it with wonder and when he turns back, Jackson

is gesturing with the bat for him to make the next pitch.

Ray makes the standard pitcher's gesture for a curve ball.

See if you can hit my curve.

He goes into an elaborate windup, throws it, it does not

curve much, and Jackson whistles it right by Ray's ear.

Yes, he can hit the curve.

Stick with fast balls, kid.

You bet.

Ray makes another pitch, and Jackson hits a line drive down

the third base line. Then a smoker down the first base

line. Ray is mightily impressed.

Wow.

Damn, this feels good. Put it right

here, huh?

Joe holds the bat out low over the plate and Ray pitches

it reasonably close to that spot. Jackson hits it out of

the park, and beams. Ray brightens up with remembrance.

Right, you were a low ball hitter.

Oh man, I did love this game. You know,

I'd have played for food money. it was

the game, the sounds, the smells. You

ever held a glove or a ball to your

face?

Ray smiles as he walks in from the mound.

Yeah.

And it was riding the trains from town

to town. And the hotels with brass

spittoons in the lobbies and brass beds

in the rooms. And it was the crowd

getting to their feet when the ball was

hit deep. Shoot, I'd have played for

free.

The sound of a screen door turns their. attention to the

house. Annie and Karin are coming out to them.

My family.

Jackson nods and then points to the floodlights.

What's with the lights?

"All the stadiums have them now except

Wrigley Field.

Makes it harder to see the ball.

The owners found that more people could

attend night games.

Owners...

By now, Annie and Karin have joined them.

Mr. Jackson: my wife Annie, my daughter

Karin.

Joe. Ma'm...

hand and winks

Hi.

Are you a ghost?

Ray and Annie are instantly embarrassed, and try to cover

with forced, nervous laughter.

Karin...

(to Shoeless Joe)

She's just kidding.

It's okay.

What do you think?

You look real to me.

Then I guess I'm real.

Would you like to come inside'?

Uh, thanks, but...I don't think I can.

Ray and Annie look at Joe for a moment, not quite

understanding the ground rules here. Joe senses their

discomfort and changes the subject.

Hey, can I come back again?

Yeah. I built this for you.

There are others, you know. There were

eight of us. It'd sure mean a lot to

them.

Oh man, anytime. They're all welcome

here.

Joe looks out over the field in eager anticipation of the

good times to come.

Thank you, Ray. I appreciate it. See

you later, huh?

Yeah. See you later.

Say it ain't so, Joe!

Joe laughs and walks to the outfield. Annie puts her arm

around Ray and snuggles her head against his chest.

Nearby, brook water splashes softly in the darkness, a frog

shrills, and fireflies dazzle the night.

Joe is in the outfield grass now, walking toward a door cut

into the fence.

Where's he going?

Through that door in the fence.

Since when is there a door in the fence?

I don't know. I didn't put one there.

Joe reaches the door, opens it, and turns back to Ray, his

voice carrying effortlessly through the night air.

Hey! Is this heaven?

No. It's Iowa.

Shoeless Joe Jackson nods and fades away as he walks

through the door in the fence. Ray and Annie looks at each

other in absolute wonder.

We're keeping this field.

You bet your ass we are.

59 INT. RAY AND ANNIE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY 9

You're going to lose your farm, pal.

It is Sunday afternoon, and Annie's family is visiting.

her mother, pink-faced and white-dentured, sits ramrod

straight in an antique rocking chair. Also present are her

brother, Mark, and his wife Dee.

Come on, it's so big. How can you lose

something so big?

You misplaced the house once.

Yeah, but it turned up two days later,

didn't it?

Ray, this stupid baseball field is going

to bankrupt you. Everybody knows it.

All I'm saying is if you wait till you

default on your loan, you lose

everything. Sell now, my partners'll

give you a more than a fair price and

you walk away with a nest egg.

Thanks, Mark, but no.

What are you holding on to this place

for? You've never even liked Iowa. You

don't like farming, you don't know the

first thing about it ---

Hey; I know a lot more about farming

than you think.

How could you plow under your major

crop?

What's a crop?

Karin enters breathlessly.

Daddy, the baseball game is on.

Ray beams. Karin returns the smile and reaches her arms

out to be picked up. She scissors her legs around her

father at belt level, hugging his neck.

Excuse us.

He exits, carrying Karin. Mark shakes his head.

I don't believe this guy. I'm trying

to bail him out and he goes off to watch

television.

Annie stifles a laugh.

He used to be so normal.

Does he beat you?

What???

He's drinking, right?

He doesn't drink, and he doesn't beat

me, okay? Now I'll grant you, he has

gotten me to worship Satan with him, but

just a little.

Her mother gasps.

Kidding... I'm kidding!

Her family has no sense of humor about this whatsoever.

I think we need more cheese.

She goes into the kitchen, and when she has rounded the

corner, she raises her eyes to heaven and mutters:

Families.

Karin and Ray sit on the bleachers, eating peanuts while

Shoeless Joe and his seven teammates practice. (Three,

including Shoeless Joe, are in the outfield, two more in

the infield, one pitches, one catches, and one bats.)

The men are all in their twenties or thirties, but show the

sheer enjoyment of returning after an absence of sixty-five

years to the game they love.

Ray directs Karin's attention to the left fielder.

Watch Joe. Watch his feet as the

pitcher gets the sign and starts to

pitch. A good left fielder knows what

pitch is coming, and he can tell from

the.angle of the bat where the ball's

going to be hit.

At the sharp crack of the bat Shoeless Joe whirls, takes

five loping strides toward the fence, turns again', reaches

up, and the ball smacks into his glove.

Karin cheers. One of the players good-naturedly boos.

Showoff!

Aw, stick it in your ear, Felsch.

Yeah, if you'd run like that against

Detroit I'da won twenty games that year.

Oh for Pete's sake, that was sixty-five

years ago! Give it up, will ya...

Hey., you guys wanna play ball, or what?

.you muscle-bound jerk.

Oh yeah? At least I got muscles.

No. At most you got muscles.

Come on, asshole, pitch!

The good-natured banter stops short, and the other players

glare at Weaver who looks sheepishly toward the little girl

and her father in the bleachers.

Sorry, kid.

It's okay!

All right,'Karin!

The players resume their practicing and ribbing.

61 EXT. HOUSE

Annie emerges with-her Mother, Mark and Dee, walking toward

the bleachers where Karin and Ray are still watching the

spirited practice.

Ray? Mom's leaving.

Oh. Well, it was...you know, thanks for

coming.

Think about what I said. I just want

to help.

I know.

Mark just stands there for a moment, the only sounds coming

from the players on the, field.

I thought you two were going to watch

some game.

Oh, I guess it's not really a game.

It's more like a practice.

Mark looks at his wife and Mother with concern. Ray

doesn't understand this reaction.

See, there's only eight of them, so they

can't play a real game...

Eight of what?

Ray points to the noisy players on the field.

Them.

Now, Mother and Dee look as if they're about to go into

mourning. Mark kneels next to Karin.

Karin honey... what are you watching?

The baseball men.

Do you see any baseball men right now?

Of course I do.

Mark stands up and shoots Ray an accusing look. Annie's

Mother starts to walk away.

You don't see it?

That's not funny, Annie.

Her family leaves in a huff.

They couldn't see it.

Interesting.

He and Annie sit beside Karin and watch the players. Each

slowly starts to smile.

62 ON THE FIELD - LATER 62

The practice is over, the players are perspired and

exhilarated. Ray is over at first base talking with Swede

Risberg, the shortstop.

Here, look at this. Sixty-five years

since I worn this uniform, still fits

me like a glove.

You must keep in pretty good shape.

I died in '75. So I ain't had a

cigarette in, what, thirteen years. You

don't smoke, do you?

No.

Felt good out there today, huh, guys?

Weaver!

Buck realizes that once again he has cursed in front of

Karin.

Oh shit. I mean, sorry. I'm sorry.

Annie calls from the house.

Ray! Dinner!

SOME OF THE PLAYERS

Ra--ay! Dinner!

They all laugh. Ray clearly loves being part of this

locker room-style comradery. Karin runs to the house.

Come on, fellas. Let's hit the

showers.

See you later, Ray.

Right. See you guys.

The players call their "good-byes" to Ray and head for the

door in the outfield fence. Ray watches them fade out as

they go through the door. Then he takes a moment to look

around him.

The baseball diamond set in the cornfield is quite

beautiful. Ray takes a satisfied breath, and walks back

toward his house. He is the very picture of contentment.

Then he hears The Voice.

'Ease his pain.'

Ray stops short.

What?

No response.

I'm sorry. I didn't understand.

'Ease his pain.'

Ray stops short.

What?

No response.

I'm sorry. I didn't understand.

'Ease his pain.'

Whose pain? What pain?

No response.

Why me?

But there is no response.

63 INT. HOUSE

Come on, wash up. We've got a PTA

meeting after dinner. They're talking

about banning books again. Really

subversive books like, Wizard of Oz,

Diary of Anne Frank ---

She notices Ray is strangely silent.

What happened to you?

The Voice is back.

Oh Lord, you don't have to build a

football field now, do you?

(shakes head no)

He said...'Ease his pain.'

Ease whose pain?

I asked him. He wouldn't tell me.

Shoeless Joe's?

I don't think so.

One of the other players?

I don't think so.

This is a very non-specific voice you've

got out there, Ray, and he's really

starting to piss me off.

Ray nods as Annie serves the meal in silence.

EXT. IOWA CITY PUBLIC SCHOOL BUILDING - NIGHT 64

Parents stream in past the "PTA Meeting Tonite" sign. Ray

and Annie stand by the doorway, talking with Miss Corser,

Karin's teacher. (Ray is too distracted by his own

thoughts to pay this much attention.)

Karin has such a wonderful imagination.

Lately, she's been making up these

charming little stories about ghosts who

play baseball in a cornfield... wonderful

imagination.

Yes. She gets that from Ray.

Miss Corser smiles approvingly. Ray realizes both women

are looking at him, now, and he emerges from his thoughts.

Annie leads Ray inside.

65 INT. SCHOOL LIBRARY - NIGHT

Ray and Annie -- along with a hundred or so other grownups

-- are sitting in chairs too small for their grownup

backsides. Ray is still lost in his own thoughts, doodling

"Ease his pain" over and over again, while an Irate Mother

has the floor, holding up a novel.

.and I say smut and filth like this has

no place in our schools!

A large portion of the audience applauds. Annie whispers

snarlingly to Ray:

Fascist. I'd like to ease her pain.

Ray is still lost in thought.

Mrs. Perkins, the book you are waving

about is hardly smut. It is considered

by many critics as the classic novel

about growing up in the 1960s.

(whispers to Ray)

I read it four times. Funniest book I

ever read.

It's pornography!

The Supreme Court said its not. And

its author, Mr. Mann ---

-- is sick!

Terence Mann is a Pulitzer prize-winner,

and was widely regarded as the finest

satirist of his time.

Well I think he's a pervert, and quite

probably a Communist, too!

The crowd murmurs its assent.

What planet are these people from?

Ray looks as if he is starting to realize something.

The se-called novels of Terence Mann

endorse promiscuity, godlessness, the

mongrelization of races, and disrespect

to high-ranking officers of the United

States Army. And that's why right-

thinking school boards all across the

shit since 1969.

Terence Mann...

You know why he stopped writing books?

Because he masturbates!

I can't take this anymore.

,Terence Mann...

Annie stands and smiles disarmingly.

Excuse me, madam, but you're speaking

of something about which you don't know

squat. Terence Mann was a warm and

gentle voice of.reason during a time of

great madness. He coined the phrase

'Make Love, Not War.' When others were

chanting 'Burn, baby, burn,' he was

writing about love, and peace, and

understanding. He helped define an era.

And a generation. And he helped us

laugh at ourselves. I cherished every

one of his books, and I dearly wish he'd

write more. And if you had experienced

even a little bit of the Sixties, you

might feel the same way, too.

I experienced the sixties.

No. I think you had two Fifties, and

moved right on to the Seventies.

Oh yeah? Well your husband plowed under

his corn and built a baseball field!

The crowd "oohs" and "aahs."

Now there's an intelligent response.

The weirdo.

Ray is so excited at his revelation that he really wants

to leave immediately. He tugs Annie's sleeve.

Annie...

But Annie mistakes her husband's intentions. She thinks

he is cautioning her not to get embroiled in trouble.

It's okay, I'll be cool.

(aloud, to the

At least he's not a book burner, you

Nazi cow!

Now the crowd erupts.

You're both a bunch of weirdos!

Annie pulls herself up to her full 5'4" and thrusts an

angry finger at. the woman.

All right Beulah, you wanna step

outside?!? Huh?

The other woman takes a half-step backward. No one has

ever seen sweet Annie like this.

I got a better idea. Let's put it to

a vote. Come on! Who's for Eva Braun

here? Who wants to burn books? Who

wants to piss on the Constitution of the

United Sates? Anybody?

The majority who had sided with the book-banner wants to

vote for censorship, but under these terms just can't raise

their arms. Little Annie is on a roll, now.

All right. Now: who's for The Bill of

Rights? Come on...who thinks freedom's

a pretty good thing? Let's see those

hands.

Some people start raising their hands.

Who thinks we have to stand up to the

kind of censorship they have in Russia?

Reluctantly, just about everyone raises their hands. Annie

is thrilled.

There you go. All right, America! I'm

proud of you. I mean it. You're

beautiful!

Annie, we gotta go.

(to the crowd)

We gotta go.

Ray pulls her from the room. Each is proud as hell, each

for a different reason.

66 EXT. SCHOOL - NIGHT

as they burst out, bubbling over with their enthusiasm.

Oh Ray, was that great, or what? it was

like the Sixties again.

I figured it out.

'Step outside, you Nazi cow.' Ha-ha!

66 - - CONTINUED

I know whose pain I'm supposed to ease.

What?

I know whose pain I'm supposed to ease.

Ray, I just halted the spread of

neo-facism in America, and you're

talking about ---

Terence Mann.

What about him?

That's whose pain.

How do you know that?

I don't know. I just know. I was right

about building the field, wasn't I?

What's his pain?

I don't know.

Then how are you supposed to ease it?

I don't know.

None of this questioning has dampened Ray's pride and

excitement. Annie shakes her head.

Ray...

Annie.

(tries to put

He's my favorite writer too,

but...what's Terence Mann got to do with

baseball?

Ray's smile freezes. Then disappears. He hasn't a clue.

67 INT. UNIVERSITY OF IOWA LIBRARY - DAY 67

A montage of Ray at the library: checking indices, reading

old magazines, finding newspaper interviews on microfilm,

s couring old anthologies, and taking copious notes.

Some of the articles include: "Where is Terence Mann Now

That We Really Need Him?". ."20 Rumors About America's

Greatest Living Ex-Writer" ... and , "Terence Mann: Still

Ignoring Us After All These Years ". The photographs show

Mann to be a large black man with gentle eyes.

RAY (V.O.)

Annie, it's incredible.

68 EXT. LIBRARY

Ray and Annie run down the steps to the street for their

car, Ray's words racing as fast as his feet.

By the early Seventies, the guy decides

people have become either too extremist

or too apathetic to listen to him. So

he stops writing books. He starts

writing poetry. About whales and stuff.

Then, he starts fooling around with a

home computer, and gets hooked. Know

what he does now?

Annie shakes her head no.

He writes software for interactive

children's videos. They teach kids how

to resolve conflicts peacefully. What

an amazing guy..

Right. So what's it got to do with

baseball?

Not A Pipe.'

Annie laughs at that. Ray is so excited, he laughs too.

It's not his best work, but the hero of

the story, a character that Mann created

twenty-six years ago, is named John

Kinsella. My father.

She stops short.

-Wow.

He gives her a "See? What'd I tell you?" look.

What can I say... Big wow, but..what's

it got to do with baseball?

They are standing by their car.

You drive.

69 INT. CAR

Annie drives as Ray excitedly consults his notes.

Okay. The last interview-he ever gave

was in 1973. Guess what it's about.

Mmm. Some kind of team sport?

Annie, he was a baseball fanatic!

Listen to this:

He finds a page and reads from it:

'As a child, my earliest recurring dream

was to play at Ebbets Field with Jackie

Robinson and the Brooklyn Dodgers. Of

course, it never happened, and the

Dodgers left Brooklyn, and they torn

down Ebbets Field. But even now, I

still dream that dream.'

That's sad...

70 EXT. RAY AND ANNIE'S HOUSE - DAY 70

They have arrived home and are walking into the house. He

is still spouting things to her his research has uncovered.

The man wrote the best books of his

generation, he was a pioneer in the

civil rights and anti-war movements, he

made the cover of Newsweek, he knew

everybody, he did everyting...he helped

shape his time. He hung out with the

Beatles! But in the end, it wasn't

enough. What he missed ...was'baseball.

Annie takes a look at Ray's handful of Xeroxes.

Oh my God!

What.

As a small boy, he had a bat named

'Rosebud.'

Ray disapprovingly grabs the Xeroxes back.from her.

Sorry.

He hasn't been to a live baseball game

since 1958.

So to ease his pain, you have to take

him to a ball game?

Yes.

71 INT. HOUSE 71

as they enter and put away their things.

Ray, this is nuttier than building the

field.

No it's not. It's pretty weird, I grant

you, but building the field was weirder.

Five, ten percent weirder.

I'm sorry, pal, but I have to nip this

one in the bud. We are having moderate

to heavy financial difficulties here.

You cannot take off for Boston while

you're going broke in Iowa.

Annie, this is really new territory for

both of us, I know, but we're dealing

with primal forces of nature, here.

When primal forces of nature tell you

to do something, the prudent thing is

not to quibble over details and ---

(starting to get

But why do you have to go? Why can't

the voice send someone else? What's

wrong with Shirley MacLaine, she too

busy? What does this have to do with

you???

Ray hears her anger and sits her down.

That's what I need to find out.

Ray, we're behind on the mortgage. That

field ate up our savings. We could lose

the farm.

I won't even stay in motels. I'll sleep

in the car, and I'll beg for food.

No. This is too much.- I understand

your need to prove to the world you're

not turning into your father, but you've

done it! You believed in the magic, and

it came true. Isn't that enough?

Annie, it's more than that. I know this-

is nuts, but there's another reason I'm

supposed to do it. I feel it. I feel

it as strongly as I've ever felt

anything in my life. There's a reason.

What. Just tell me what it is.

I think something's going to happen at

the game. I don't know what,

but...there's something at Fenway Park

in Boston, and I have to be there with

Terence Mann to find it.

Something he just said changes Annie's mood.

Fenway Park... Is that the one with the

big green wall in left field?

Yeah.

I dreamt last night you were at Fenway.

Uh, was I sitting on the first base

side?

Yes...

About the fifth row?

(nods,

You were keeping score and eating

-- a hot dog. I had the same dream.

I'll help you pack.

72 INT. BEDROOM 72-

Ray is throwing clothes into a suitcase as fast as he can.

Annie reads from a road map she has marked for him.

.you take that to 93, and then it gets

all squiggly, and after that you're on

your own. How are you going to find

him, anyway? He won't exactly be in the

phone book, you know.

The article says he has a storefront on

Harvard Street next to some place that

sells Kosher food. Shouldn't be too

hard to find. I don't need a tie, do

I?

No, dear. Not for a kidnapping.

73 EXT. HOUSE 73

Ray has packed the car and is getting ready to leave.

You'll be okay, right?

I'll try to sell the combine. We sure

don't need it anymore.

Karin runs up, grabs Ray behind each ear and hugs and

kisses him.

So long Tiger.

He get into the car and looks up at Annie.

I'll call you every night. If the team

shows up while I'm gone, just tell

them...

(shakes his head)

On second thought, stay away from them.

Those guys haven't been near a woman

since 1922.

Ray, they're not going to make a pass

at me. They're'ghosts.

They're jocks. Keep away from them.

She laughs, kisses him, and watches him drive off.

74 ON THE ROAD 74

Ray's brave little Datsun chugs along the interstate

between eighteen-wheelers, busses, gasoline tankers,

auto-transport trucks, and other monsters.

Driving...gas stations...boring roadside restaurants...

getting lost...looking at the map...signs that announce the

"Entering" and "Leaving" of various states...days turning

to nights and back again... .Finally, the green hills of

Massachusetts.

76 BOSTON - DAY 76

He emerges from a tunnel and enters traffic, the likes of

which he has not seen in a very long time. On one side of

the expressway there are sweaty factories, and on the

other, old wood-frame apartment buildings with advertising

for long-forgotten products painted on the sides. Lunatic

drivers abound. We are not in Iowa anymore.

77 INT.-RAY'S CAR 77

He rehearses as he drives.

Hi, I'm Ray Kinsella. I'm really a big

fan of...

How do you, Mr. Mann, I have to take you

to a baseball game.

All right, put your hands up and get in

the trunk!

Good.

78 HARVARD STREET - BROOKLINE - DAY 78

Ray drives slowly, looking for a store that sells Kosher

food. But in this old newish neighborhood, there are

dozens: butcher shops, delis, bakeries, groceries.

79- INT. KOSHER BUTCHER SHOP 79

Ray is asking the spritely Jewish Butcher for directions.

He lives right around here. Do you know

him? I'm a friend of his.

The Butcher just stares back, with suspicion.

He's sort of a tall, black man.

If you was much of a friend, he'd of

give you the directions himself.

Ray nods. He knows this is useless.

That's a good point. Thank you.

Ray exits.

80 ON THE STREET 80

Ray has stopped an Ancient Jewish Woman on the street. She

looks from Ray's Iowa license plate to Ray's face.

I don't know where he lives.

But by her raised eyebrows and the tone of her voice, it

is clear that if she did know -- which she probably does

-- she certainly wouldn't tell him.

Ray has pulled his car to the edge of the gas station --

he is not buying gas -- and slips a five dollar bill to the

ruddy-faced, teenaged Irish Pump Jockey.

Two blocks down. Right hand side.

First store that don't have a chicken

in the window, is his.

82 EXT. HARVARD STREET - DAY

In between a deli and a Kosher butcher shop, Ray finds a

storefront with blacked-out windows. He enters an open

hallway in which he sees the door to the storefront, as

well as stairs to the apartments above it.

There are half-a-dozen mail boxes on the wall. Ray checks

the names. He smiles.

Ray turns to the storefront door. Instead of a buzzer

there is a long wire with a weight on its end hanging from

a hole at the top of the door. Next to the wire is a

handwritten note taped to the door, which reads: "You

better have a goddamn good reason for ringing this bell."

Ray laughs. This guy is great. He pulls on the wire. On

the other side of the door, a bell rings.

Ray has to struggle to control his nervousness. He takes

a breath. He hears footsteps inside, approaching the door.

He cannot help but smile with delight at the thought of

meeting one of his cultural heroes.

The door opens. Terence Mann is menacingly huge. He

glares at Ray and roars:

Who the fuck are you???-

Ray is momentarily taken aback, but he figures maybe the

guy is joking, so he just smiles and plunges ahead.

Sir, my name is Ray Kinsella, and it's

a great pleasure 'Co finally ---

The door slams in his face. It takes Ray a few seconds to

realize the interview is over.

He rings the bell again. The door opens. Manns large

frame fills it.

We got a learning disability here?

Mr. Mann, I've come 1500 miles to see

you at the risk of losing my home and

alienating my wife. If I could just

have a minute. Please.

Look. I can't tell you the secret of

life, and I don't have any answers for

you. I don't give interviews, I am no

longer a public figure, I just want to

be left alone. So fuck off.

Just one minute. I'm begging you.

Mann looks him over. Then he sighs.

One minute.

Mann turns and enters the storefront. Ray follows.

85 INT. MANN'S STOREFRONT

It is hardly fashionable, but it's roomy and comfortable.

There are tables stacked high with mailing envelopes and

a postage scale. A few workbenches have software and

spread sheets strewn across them. In the back are a couple

of personal computers.

On a side wall there are book jackets and newspaper photos

in cheap frames: pictures of Mann with Martin Luther

King...with Bob Dylan...with Timothy Leary...rann being

arrested at some demonstration.. .Mann at Woodstock...

Mann's gruff voice pulls Ray's attention away from these

relics.

Your minute ain't getting bigger.

Okay. I understand your desire for

privacy, and i wouldn't dream of

intruding if this weren't extremely

important.

Oh God. I don't do causes anymore.

This isn't a cause. I don't need money,

or an endorsement.

Refreshing.

You once wrote: 'There comes a time

when all the cosmic tumblers have

clicked into place, and the universe

opens itself up for a few seconds, to

show you what is possible.'

Oh my God.

What.

You're from the Sixties!

Well, actually ---

Out! Out!

Just wait a second ---

Mann picks up an old-fashioned bug sprayer -- the kind with

a long arm that pumps in and out -- and starts spraying it

at Ray as if he were an unwanted insect.

Back to the Sixties! Back!

He is backing Ray out the door.

If you'd just ---

There's no place for you here in the

future! Get back while you still can!

He gets Ray just past the door and slams it shut.

Ray slams it open. He's pissed.

You've changed, you know that?

Mann stops fuming and considers that. He sighs, sadly.

Yes. I suppose I have. How's this?

(smiles and makes

the peace sign)

'Peace, love, dope.'

Now get the fuck out of here!!!

And he slams the door shut again. Ray is flabbergasted.

He is thinking furiously. Then he notices that in slamming

the door, the latch has not locked in place. He thinks,

makes up his mind, and quietly opens the door.

Mann has returned to work, his back to the door.

Ray enters the loft, his left hand in his jacket pocket.

When he is halfway across the loft, he clears his throat.

Mann spins around.

Now you've pissed me off.

Okay, hold it right there.

He juts his pocketed hand forward, as if he had a gun in

his jacket.

I was hoping I wouldn't have to do it

this way...

What the fuck is that?

It's a gun. What'd you think it is?

It's your finger.

No it's not. It's a gun.

Yeah? Let me see it.

Get out of here, I'm not going to show

you my gun.

Mann sighs, and stands.

Now look. I'm not going to hurt you,

I just need you to go with me for a

little while, then -- what are you

doing?

Mann has found a crowbar among his tools, and is advancing

toward Ray.

I'm going to beat you with a crowbar

till you go away.

Understandably, this makes Ray nervous.

Whoa! Wait! You can't do that.

What, are there rules? There's no

rules.

Mann is almost to him, now, the crowbar raised above his

head.

You're a pacifist!

Mann stops. He thinks. He lowers the crowbar.

Shit.

Ray breathes a sigh of relief.

Thank you.

All right, are you kidnapping me?

What's the deal here?

I'm sorry. I was hoping I could-just

convince you to come with me.

Then you are kidnapping me.

I have to take you to a baseball game.

You what?

Tonight's game. Red.Sox, Twins.

Why?

Something will happen there. I don't

know what, but we'll find out when it

does.

Mann now has no idea what to make of all this, so he just

looks Ray over for a few seconds.

My name is Ray Kinsella. You used my

father's name for a character in one of

your stories. John Kinsella.

You're seeing a team of psychiatrists,

aren't you?

I don't blame you for thinking that, but

no, I'm not. I swear to God I'm the

least crazy person I've ever known.

Then why are you kidnapping me to a

baseball game?

I read an interview you gave a long time

ago about how you always dreamed of

playing at Ebbets Field, and how sad you

felt when they tore it down.

(shakes head no)

I never said that.

You didn't?

I don't even remember thinking it.

Now Ray is ndt sure what to do.

This whole. thing is so weird.

Then why go through with it?

It's a long story...and I'll tell you

on the way. Please.

I'm not going to get rid of you, am I?

If you just come to this game with me,

I'll never bother you again. Not even

a Christmas card.

Mann picks up a hat,

.plops it on his head and heads out the

door.

Mann sits tensely beside Ray, who drives with his right

hand, while his left hand remains in his pocket,

substituting for a gun.

You do this often?

No. It's my first time. So be gentle.

Ray laughs nervously, and is embarrassed to see Mann not

sharing the humor.

You used to have a sense of humor.

Things used to be funny.

Ray pulls up at an intersection. He has to choose between

left and right. Behind him, cars are honking. Ray doesn't

have a clue which way to go. He sighs.

I'm sorry. This is really humiliating.

Which way is-Eenway?

Mann shakes his head, then tilts it to the left.

Thank you.

Ray makes the turn, and heads off down the street.

You're really inept at this, aren't you?

Ray grins sheepishly and nods. Mann laughs.

I mean you're like a total bumbler.

Ray chuckles his reluctant acceptance of the truth.

'Bozo the Kidnapper.

(no longer so

Okay, okay...

After a few moments, Ray decidesto break the ice.

Can I ask you a question? Something

I've always wanted to know.

Mann nods. He's been asked this question a million times.

No, I never slept with her.

You never slept with who?

Whoever you were going to ask me about.

If I'd been with one-tenth the famous

women they said I was with, I'd be in

formaldehyde by now.

You slept with a lot of famous women?

What's your question?

How'd you get a name like Terence?

Mann cannot believe that's the question.

Rastus was taken.

Ray knows now to shut up. He returns his attention to his

driving, glances up to his rearview mirror, and sees

something that causes his eyes to widen in horror.

A Boston police car on his tail, red lights flashing.

RAY (O.S.)

Oh no.

88 INT. RAY'S CAR 88

Mann looks behind him, sees the police car, and turns back

to Ray. Ray wears a look of resignation as he pulls the

car over to the side of the road, and shuts off the

ignition. Mann just looks at him, and starts to chuckle.

Nice going, Boze.

Okay. I don't really have a gun. So

don't say anything to this guy, okay?

I swear to God there's a reason we're

supposed to be at this game.

Mann gives him a "Give me a break" look.

Ray sees the Policeman is getting out of his cruiser and

walking towards them. Ray is desperate.

If I get arrested, the press'll be all

over you, you'll have to appear in open

court, you'll be the lead story on

Entertainment Tonight, and your

picture'll be on the front page of every

tabloid in America.

The Policeman knocks on Ray's window. He is young,

fresh-scrubbed and earnest. Ray holds up one hand to him.

Just a second.

'Terence-Mann Kidnapped... Also seen in

UFO with Elvis.'

Mann's eyes narrow. The cop knocks again, more

insistently. Ray rolls down-the window."

Sorry.

License and registration.

Nervously, Ray complies. Mann turns his face toward the

passenger side window. Ray's mouth dries up. He has no

idea what Mann will do.

The Policeman scrutinizes the license, turns it over to

look for convictions, and checks Ray's face against the

felonlike photo. Then he looks at Mann.

And what's your name,-sir?

Mann keeps his face averted.

Terry.

Where is it that you and Raymond are

going, Terry?

Fenway Park! We're going to the ball

game.

(turns to cop)

Actually, Officer, I'm being kidnapped.

Discreetly, under his breath, Ray sings the "Entertainment

Tonight" theme song.

'Entertainment Tonight,

doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo...

Mann winces. The officer looks at him questioningly.

MANN,

What I mean by that is, I don't care

much for baseball, but Raymond insisted.

Yeah, I hate baseball.

(hands Ray back

Your right taillight is out, Raymond.

I want you to get it fixed at the first

opportunity.

Yes. I will. Thank you.

The Policeman walks away, and Ray heaves a sigh of relief.

'Terry?'

'Raymond?'

Ray. My...hostages call me Ray. Can

I call you Terry?

Sourly, Mann nods. Ray smiles and drives off.

And thank you.

I didn't do it just because I don't want

the publicity.

Then what else?

I envy you your craziness, Ray. It's

been years since I did something

completely crazy.

Well, you want to hear something really

crazy?

Do I have a choice?

Nope. I live on a farm in Iowa. One

day, out in the cornfield, I heard a

voice...

89 EXT. CAR

It glides through city traffic.

90 EXT. FENWAY PARK - DAY

Ray slides the Datsun into a parking place, and he and Mann

walk the short sleazy block to Fenway, and old-fashioned

center-city ballpark.

But can't you accept the probability

that it's all just a hallucination?

Annie and Karin see it, too.

They have reached the ticket window.

Two, field level, first base side.

The elderly Ticket Seller pulls out two tickets.

Section seventeen. Twelve dollars.

Ray takes out his wallet and turns to Mann..

It's on me.

You're damn right it is.

Ray pays the man and receives the tickets.

Game don't start for a while, but you

can go in, watch batting practice.

Great.

They enter the stadium.

91 INT. STADIUM 91

They walk through the indoor portion of the grandstand

toward their section.

So what do you do with yourself these

days?

I live. I work. I've learned to cook.

I take walks. I watch sunsets.

Don't you miss being... involved?

I was the East Coast distributor of

'involved.'. I ate it, drank it, and

breathed it. Then they killed Martin.

They killed Bobby. And then they

elected Tricky Dick. Twice. And now,

people like you think I must be

miserable that I'm not involved anymore.

Well, I've got news for you: I spent all

my misery years ago. I have no more

pain for any of you. I gave at the

office.

They approach the refreshment stand.

So...what do you want?

. MANN

I want them to stop looking to me for

answers. Begging me to speak again,

write again, be a leader. I want them

to start thinking for themselves. And

I want my privacy!

Ray looks slightly embarrassed.

No, I meant what do you want from...

Ray points to the hot dog vendor, as they have reached the

front of the line.

Oh.

A dog and a beer.

(to the vendor)

Two.

Okay, I agree, you should be entitled

to as much privacy as you wane. But why

stop writing?

I haven't published a word in seventeen

years and I still have to endure

assholes like you all the time. What

do you think it'd be like if I suddenly

came out with a new book?

Ray nods. Mann is making sense.

They'd bleed me dry.

Ray and Mann emerge into the sunlight and walk down the

aisle toward the field.

God, this place is so beautiful.

The grass is so green you can almost smell it. Looking

around the old ballpark, they see only about twenty or

thirty die-hard fans in the stands for batting practice;

a half-dozen players are grouped around the batting cage

as one player hits to several others in the field. A few

sportswriters and other civilians stand near the dugouts.

Ray and Mann stop at the first row, right behind the Red

Sox on-deck circle, lean on the railing and talk.

It could be 1912 out there, for all this

place has changed. Babe Ruth stood on

that very mound as a pitcher long before

anyone knew he could hit home runs.

Same mound.

Why are we here, Ray?

Something.. about the game.

93 THE GAME - NIGHT

The game is in progress. Ray and Mann are in their fifth

row seats. They do not speak.

At one point, Ray becomes suddenly and strangely aware that

something is about to happen. He looks at Mann who is just

watching the game. Then he looks at the scoreboard.

Fenway Park has a sophisticated scoreboard that flashes

pictures of the batter and pitcher, and can show instant

replays of some of the action.

Right now, the display is replaced by an oddly glowing

message. The sounds of the stadium, the game, and the

crowd fade out.

There is only the message:

ARCHIBALD "MOONLIGHT" GRAHAM

Chisholm, Minn.

New York Giants

1 Game, 0 At Bats

The message does not just glow, it pulsates. It looks

almost otherworldly, phosphorescent; clearly unlike

anything ever seen before on a ballpark scoreboard.

95 RAY AND MANN

Ray looks around him. The sounds of the game return, and

from the unconcerned faces of the people near him, he

realizes that no one else can see the message. He opens

his program and starts writing it down. Mann notices this,

but cannot see what Ray is writing.

Then Ray hears The Voice.

'Go the distance.'

Oh my God.

What's the matter?

Nothing.

You okay?

Ray sighs.

Yeah.

Whenever you wanttogo,wecan go.

What???

If you want to go, we can go.

Mann looks at Ray curiously, trying to read this new

attitude.

Then let's go.

Mann rises and heads up the aisle. Ray looks down at the

program -- at the handwritten legend of Moonlight Graham,

who played one game fifty-seven years ago, but did not get

to bat -- and follows Mann out of the ballpark.

96 THE RIDE BACK TO BOSTON 96

It is nighttime, and Mann drives. Ray slumps, dozing,

troubled. Mann looks curiously at Ray, but says nothing.

They ride in silence.

97 MANN'S STREET - NIGHT

The street is blue with moonlight as they park in front of

the storefront.

Where are you goingfrom here?

Home.

What is it you're not telling me?

(shakes head no)

I've taken up too much of your time.

Mann gets out of the car.

I wish I had your passion, Ray. However

misdirected it may be, it's still a

passion. I used to feel that way about

things, but...

Ray slides into the driver's seat.

You got another message, didn't you?

You'll think I'm crazy.

I already think you're crazy. What did

it say?

After a little thought, Ray smiles sadly.

It said 'The man's done enough. Leave

him alone.'

Ray puts the car in gear, makes a wide turn, and starts to

head back up the street. But he stops short when Mann's

form looks out of the darkness into the glare of the

headlights..

Ray does not know why Mann is blocking his path. Or why

he appears tense, almost frightened.

'Moonlight' Graham.

Ray's jaw drops.

You saw it.

Saw what?

New York Giants, 1922. He played one

game, never got to bat.

Mann looks spectrial in the high-contrast glare on the

headlights.

MANN.

What did I see, Ray?

Chisholm, Minnesota. We were the only

ones who saw it. Did you hear the

voice, too?

Mann glances at Ray, then looks away.

It's all right to admit it. That's what

told me to find you.

No response.

Did you hear it too?

'Go the distance.'

Do you know what it means?

Yes.

What.

It means...we're going to Minnesota to

find Moonlight Graham.

We?

Yeah.

What do we do when we find him?

We'll know that when we find him.

Ray opens the passenger door of the Datsun and Mann jumps

in. Ray releases the brake and peels out, burning rubber.

The two men look happy as kids with bats over shoulders,

gloves dangling, on their way to a sandlot.

98 ON THE ROAD

Once on 1-90, they begin the long haul across the Great

Lakes states. Ray drives, Mann dozes in the reclined

passenger seat.

RAY (V.O.)

Annie, I'm really sorry, but I'm going

to be a few days longer.

ANNIE (V.0.)

Oh, Ray...Is everything all right?

RAY (V.0.)

Everything's great, and'I'll tell you

all about it when I get back, but I'm

going to Minnesota now.

99 MORE ON THE ROAD 99

Now Mann drives, and Ray tries to sleep, his stockinged

feet propped up on the dash, occasionally sliding with a

thud against the steering column.

ANNIE (V.O.)

I don't believe this. What's in

Minnesota?

RAY (V. 0.)

An old ballplayer. I'll explain when

I get home. How are things with you?

Ray is using the pay phone on the wall of the office, while

the car is being gassed.

ANNIE (V.0.)

Uh, fine.

Hey, guess what? Terence Mann is with

me. We're going to Minnesota together.

ANNIE (V.0.)

Are you kidding me? Oh, Ray, that's

unbelievable!

I know. I gotta go. Hug Karin for me.

I love you.

ANNIE (V.O.)

I love you too. You guys behave

yourselves. Hurry home.

Ray smiles and hangs up.

She hangs up, and loses her smile as she turns back to the

kitchen table, where her brother Mark sits with two men in

business suits.

Why didn't you tell him?

For the same reason I've never pissed

on your birthday cake.

Annie, you don't have a choice in the

matter.

Annie looks vertroubldye.

102 ON THE ROAD - MINNESOTA

They are north of Duluth,andthelandscape hasgrown

harsher, the trees shorterandmore gnarled, thegrass

tougher and wirier.

After Virginia, Minnesota, all the land is scarred. Above

the town the mines sit like sand-colored bunkers in the

cliffs,- stern and silent.

Near Chisholm, the land is getting ever weirder. It looks

like a pasture rooted and rerooted by giant hogs. It has

been split and gutted; greenery has grown back, but at

weird and unnatural angles.

But as they swing into town; the highway divides and they

cross a beautiful and tranquil lake, so smooth and shiny

it might be a scene painted on a glass plate. A sign reads

WELCOME TO CHISHOLM.

103 CHISHOLM, MINNESOTA

Ray and Mann have parked on the main street next to a

corner phone booth. Ray is flipping through the thin phone

book attached to the booth by a chain.

Half a dozen Grahams...no Archibald, no

Moonlight.

Follow me.

104 EXT. CHISHOLM FREE PRESS

The local newspaper is located in a small storefront that

was probably once a confectioners or a dry-goods store.

105 INT. CHISHOLM FREE PRESS

Ray and Mann are talking with the paper's publisher, Veda

Ponikvar, a handsome woman in her sixties, with a sweet,

innocent smile, and eyeglasses hanging from a fine chain

around her neck.

We're trying to find an ex-baseball

player named Archibald Graham.

You mean 'Doc' Graham.

No, I think his nickname was

'Moonlight.'

Yes, that's Doctor Graham.

Doctor Graham.

This is interesting news to Ray and Mann.

His baseball career never amounted to

much, so he went back to school. His

father was a doctor.

Do you know where we can find him?

It's nothing bad. We're not from the

IRS, or anything ---

Doc Graham is dead. He died in 1972.

Ray and Mann look at each other, unsure of what this means

to their quest.

106 NEWSPAPER BACK ROOM 106

Ray and Mann sit at a table in the newspaper's back room,

the "morgue" file on Doc Graham -- a collection of

clippings, pictures, and the obituary -- strewn before

them.

Right now, their attention is on Veda, who has put her

glasses on, and is reading from an editorial.

.'And there were times when children

could not afford eyeglasses or milk, or

clothing. Yet no child was ever denied

these essentials, because in the

background, there was always Doctor

Graham. Without any fanfare or

publicity, the glasses or the milk or

the ticket to the ball game found their

way into the child's pocket.'

You wrote that.

The day he died.

You're a good writer.

The compliment is just right, and she smiles warmly.

Excuse me.

She exits. Mann spreads out the clippings and shakes his

head.

Something's missing.

Ray is looking at a photo of Doc Graham as a man in his

late sixties.

Half the towns in North America has a

Doc Graham. What makes this one so

special we have to come halfway across

the country to find him fifteen years

after he died? There's got to be more.

Veda enters with a piece of paper from a yellow legal pad.

You might want to talk to some of these

people. They knew Doc pretty well.

Two old Codgers on a park bench.

Oh, that man had an arm on him. One day

over at the ballpark, he said 'Lemme see

that ball', and one of the boys threw

him the ball, and he walked over behind

home plate, reared back, and fired that

ball over the left field fence.

And he was at least fifty years old when

he did it.

It was still rising when it disappeared.

A woman, an older Nurse.

i went with him to make a housecall at

one of the camps. .mining camps. The

husband was sick, and they had no stove,

so they had no heat.

When we got back to Chisholm, Doc went

to the hardware store and bought a stove

for them and paid to have it delivered.

And I know that wasn't the only time he

did something like that.

109 COUNTRY KITCHEN RESTAURANT - DAY 109

Several tables have been pushed together, and Mann sits

surrounded by townspeople, mostly men past retirement age.

He didn't smoke or drink, .but he used

to chew up paper and spit it out

wherever he went. If you were around

Doc very long, you learned to duck.

He'd even chew up his prescription

slips, so sometimes we'd have to dig

into our pockets for a piece of paper

so Doc could write us prescriptions.

He always wore a black overcoat, even

in the summer, and it was always

flapping open, even in the winter and

it was fifty below. And he had white

hair, like me, and he always carried an

umbrella.

'Cept he was always, I mean always,

losing them. Stores 'round town would

just lean his umbrella somewhere near

the door, and if anybody asked, they'd

just say 'Oh, that's Doc's umbrella'.

What was the umbrella for?

Oh, I think it got to be a habit,

something to hang onto. But if you'd

ask him, he'd say it was to beat away

all his lady admirers.

This, as much as the other remembrances, brings warm

chuckles to the old men.

Tell me about his wife.

Alicia. She moved to South Carolina

after he passed. She passed a few years

later. She always wore blue. I bet you

didn't know that.

No. I didn't.

110 MOTEL OFFICE - NIGHT

The woman Manager of the motel is having a'cup of coffee

with Ray.

You know, everybody's talking about you

two. Our neighbors came over last night

and we just told Doc'Graham stories

until after midnight. I even wrote some

of them down.

She takes out a piece of paper.

That's very nice of you.

Well, it's funny. It's like all these

memories we have of Doc had gone to

sleep and sunk way down inside us. But

once you started asking about him, and

started us talking about him, why they

swum back up to the surface again.

Ray smiles.

Ray and Mann are sitting in their beds, comparing their

notes.

No screwing, no drinking, no opium, no

illegitimate children. No-midnight

abortions, no shady finances.

Ray puts down his notes and picks up the Chicago Tribune.

You sound disappointed.

Shoeless Joe had a problem. That's why

he needed you. This guy doesn't need

us.

Suddenly, Ray straightens with a start.

Oh, My God.

Ray hurries over to Mann, offering the opened newspaper,

and points out an article to Mann. It is headlined:

TERENCE MANN MISSING.

Damn.

'His son, who lives in New York City,

notified police after receiving no

answer to repeated telephone calls...'

Shit. I'd better call him.

He pulls the phone onto the bed and dials

What the hell do I tell him.

You want me to...?

He motions outside with his head.

Thanks.

Ray exits.

112 EXT. CHISHOLM RESIDENTIAL STREET - NIGHT 112

Ray walks by the old movie theatre, which sits at the edge

of a residential street. The Godfather is playing. He

nods at an elderly man who passes him on the street. He

passes a darkened house and notices there is a sign of some

kind in its unlit front window. He takes another two or

three steps before he has, to stop to take a better look at

the sign.

It takes a second to make out the image in the dark, but

it is a head shot of Richard Nixon. Above, it says "Four

More Years". Below, it reads "Re-Elect The President".

1.14

is puzzled. He turns and looks at the theatre marquee.

115 THE THEATRE MARQUEE

frowns. He says the word to himself.

Nominated?

Ray now looks at the car parked nearest to him.

119 HIS POINT OF VIEW

All the cars on the street are pre-1972. And still walking

down the block away from him, is the elderly man Ray passed

moments earlier.

The man is about sixty-five years old, stooped a little,

but the body is still lithe, an athlete's body. He is

wearing a dark overcoat...

120 CLOSER POINT OF VIEW

.and he carries an umbrella.

The little hairs on the back of Ray's neck stand up. His

mouth is dry, and for a moment, he cannot speak. Then, he

calls to the man.

Doctor Graham?

Slowly, the man stops and turns back to face Ray. Ray

starts to trot to him.

Who's that?

My name is Ray Kinsella. I'm from Iowa.

Are you Moonlight Graham?

The old man narrows his bright eyes to see Ray more

clearly.

No one's called me 'Moonlight' Graham

for fifty years.

Well, I've come...

. a very long way to see you.

Funny. I couldn't sleep tonight.

Usually, I sleep like a baby. So I told

Alicia I was going to take a walk.

Mind if i join you? I'd like to talk

to you.

Doc nods and they start to walk.

Let's go to the high school. We can sit

in my office. What do. you want to talk

about?

Well, first of all, how'd you get to be

called 'Moonlight'?

'Cause of a night like this, long ago.

I'd just gotten to the minors, and I

went out to the ballpark.

There's nothing as peaceful as a

ballpark at night. Like a church.

Yeah, I know what you mean.

Anyway, I fell asleep. Next morning,

they found me in the on-deck circle, all

curled up like a baby. Someone called

me 'Moonlight,' and it stuck.

122 EXT. HIGH SCHOOL 122

Doc fumbles out a key, and lets them in.

When you got to the majors, you played

only one inning of one game. What

happened in that inning?

123 INT. HIGH SCHOOL 123

They enter the hallway of the old school, the smell of

varnish and chalk almost palpable.

It was the last day of the season.

Bottom of the eighth, and we were way

ahead. I'd been up with the club for

most of a month, but hadn't seen any

action. Just then old John McGraw

points a bony finger at me and says

'Right field.' Well sir, I jumped up

like I was sitting on a spring, grabbed

my glove, and ran out onto the field.

They reach a varnished door with an opaque glass inset, and

enter. Doc Graham's office.

124 INT.,DOC GRAHAM'S OFFICE 124

Doc seats himself behind a cluttered desk, and motions Ray

to the black-leather sofa a few feet away.

Did you get to make a play?

Doc takes a sheet of paper off his desk, expertly rips an

inch or so off the corner with his teeth, and begins

chewing.

Nope. They never hit the ball out of

the infield.

Ray chuckles, but then flinches as Doc shoots his little

spitball towards him.

Heads up.

It hits the back of the sofa a few feet from Ray, and hangs

there, like a white fly.

I was warned about you.

Anyway, one inning later the game was

over, and so was I.

And what was that like?

It was like coming this close to your

dreams, and then watching them brush

past you like a stranger in a crowd.

Ray nods, and a look of understanding begins to appear on

his face. He looks out the window, focused on faraway.

Except, at the time, you don't think

much of it. Hardly anybody recognizes

the most significant moment of their

life when they're happening. Back then

I just figured there'd be plenty more

days. I didn't know that would be the

only one.

Doc Graham notices that Ray is looking very serious.

Now, let me ask you a question, Ray

Kinsella. What makes that half-inning

so interesting that you come all the way

from Iowa to ask me about it sixty-five

years later?

Ray chooses his words carefully.

I didn't really know till just now. But

I think it's to ask you if you could do

anything you wanted to...if you could

have a wish...

Ahh...

Doc nods. his understanding. He smiles wryly, takes a new

piece of paper, and bites off a little section.

And are you the kind of man who could

grant me that wish?

I don't know. I'm just asking...

Doc leans his left elbow on the desk and rubs his forehead

thoughtfully with a palm, as if it were an eraser that

could erase the years and take him back to 1929 and the

Polo Grounds in New York.

I never got to bat in the major leagues.

I'd have liked the chance -- just once

-- to stare down a big league pitcher.

Stare him down and then just as he goes

into the windup -- wink! Make him

wonder if I know something he doesn't.

That's what I wish for. The chance to

squint my eyes when the sky is so blue

it hurts to look at it, and to feel the

'tingle that runs up your arms when you

connect dead-on. The chance to run the

bases, stretch a double to a triple, and

flop race-first into third, wrapping my

arm around the bag. That's my wish, Ray

Kinsella... that's my wish.

Ray begins to smile. Graham is staring intently at him.

Is there enough magic floating around

in the night out there for you to make

that wish come true?

What would you do if I said 'Yes'?

I think I might actually believe you.

There is a place where things like that

happen. And if you want to go there,

I can take you.

Doc's eyes start to glisten, and he offers an embarrassed

smile as he wipes away a tear.

If it means leaving Chisholm...

He shakes his head.no. Ray is surprised.

I understand, but I think you're

supposed to come with us.

This is my most special place in the

world, Ray. Once a place touches you

like this, the wind never blows so cold

again. You feel for it like it was your

child. I can't leave here.

Ray cannot believe the man won't leave Chisholm for his

dream.

But your wish...

It'll stay one. I was born here, lived

here, and I'll die here. That's okay.

I'll have no regrets.

But sixty-five years ago -- for five

minutes -- you came this close.

(holds up two

It would kill some men to get that close

to their dream and never touch it.

They'd consider it a tragedy.

Son...if I'd only gotten to be a doctor

for five minutes. .now that would have

been a tragedy.

Those words fill up the room, and Ray sinks back against

the couch.

Well, I'd better get home before Alicia

starts to thinking I've got a

girlfriend.

And Doc Graham smiles at him.

RAY (V.0.)

And he smiled.

125 INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 125

It is later that same night, and Ray has been recounting

his experience with Doc Graham to Mann, who appears quietly

troubled.

And then I figured maybe we're not

supposed to take him with us. So now

I don't know why the hell we were

supposed to come here.

Maybe it was to find out if one inning

can change the world.

Did it?

It did for these people. If he'd gotten

a hit, he might've stayed there.

Your wife called before. She wants you

to call her tonight.

126 INT.RAY AND ANNIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 126

Annie is asleep. The phone rings, and the speed with which

she picks it up suggests that her anxiety to get this phone

call prevented her from sleeping very deeply.

Ray.

I asked the bank if we could miss a

payment or two, and they told me they'd

just sold the note on the farm to Mark

and his partners. So they own the

paper now, and he says if we don't sell

to them, they'll foreclose. Ray, we

don't have the money.

127 INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT 127

Ray holds the phone, pained.

Okay, look. They can't foreclose for

thirty days, or something like that.

I've got to take Terry back to Boston

first, so it'll be ---

No.

Ray looks over at Mann.

I'm going to Iowa with you.

We're coming home.-

128 ON THE ROAD - MORNING 128

Ray drives with purpose and speed. Mann looks relaxed.

Hell, I couldn't quit now. I've got

see this ballpark.

Not everybody can see it. You might

not.

I'll give it a try.

As they turn onto the highway near the lake, a Teenager

with a dufflebag appears on the side of the road, his arm

raised in. a hitchhiker's stance. Ray pulls the car over

to the side of the road.

---128 - - - CONTINUED

I need all the karma I can get right

now.

The car stops, and the Teenager runs for it. He tosses his

dufflebag in the backseat and squeezes in after it.

Thanks. You're the first car by. I

didn't expect to get a lift so soon.

Ray starts the car back onto the highway.

How far are you going?

How far are you going?

Iowa.

Well, if it's okay with you, I'll ride

along for a while. I play baseball.

Ray and Mann exchange brief smiles.

I'm looking for a place to play, and I

heard that all through the Midwest,

towns have teams, and in some places

they'll find you a day job so you can

play ball nights and weekends.

This is your lucky day, kid. We're

going someplace kind of like that.

All right!

I'm Ray Kinsella, this is Terry Mann.

Hi. I'm Archie Graham.

Mann and Ray just look at each other.

And the little Datsun heads off down the highway.

129 INT. CAR - NIGHT

Archie sleeps in the backseat.

I'm dying to ask him if he has a

nickname.

Don't. He didn't get it till he was in

the minors.

Maybe we can give it to him.

Funny, the way he described towns,

finding you a job so you can play on

their team...they haven't done that for

years. My Dad did that for a while.

But that was in the Twenties.

What happened to your father?

He never made it as ball player, so he

tried to get his son to make it for him.

By the time I was ten, playing baseball

got to be like eating vegetables or

taking out the garbage, so when I was

fourteen, I started to refuse. Can you

believe that? An American boy refusing

to have a catch with his father.

Why at fourteen?

That's when I read The Boat Rocker, by

Terence Mann.

Oh God.

I never played catch with him again.

See, that's the kind of crap people are

always trying to lay on me. It's not

my fault you wouldn't play catch with

your father!

I know. Anyway, when I was seventeen,

we had a big fight, I packed my things,

said something awful, and left. After

a while I wanted to come home, but I

didn't know how. I made it back for the

funeral.

What was the awful thing you said?

I said I could never respect a man whose

hero was a criminal.

Who was his hero?

Shoeless Joe Jackson.

Mann considers this all very carefully.

You knew he wasn't a criminal.

Ray nods.

Then why'd you say it?

I was seventeen.

Mann nods with growing understanding.

So this is your penance.

I know. I can't bring my father

back..

.so the least you can do is bring back

his hero.

Ray nods.

Well now we know what everybody's

purpose here is...except mine.

Ray looks at him. He hadn't thought of that. After a few

moments Ray points to something in the distance.

130 POINT OF VIEW

Something down the road, in the midst of all this flat

farmland, is glowing in the night.

It is an illuminated baseball diamond in a cornfield.

131 RAY AND ANNIE'S FARM - NIGHT

Ray turns the Datsun into the long driveway and, with a

rumble, crosses the metal cattle guard that keeps livestock

from escaping to the roadway.

He eases the car to a stop in front of the house, and as

the three men unfold themselves from the car, Karin bolts

from the back door of the house, a blur of white blouse and

pink pedal pushers. She flings herself into Ray's arms,

and hugs his neck in unrestrained joy.

Daddy!

Then Annie appears too. They kiss while Mann and Archie

wait to be introduced. Finally, Mann clears his throat.

Karin, Annie... This is Terence Mann

Terry.

Hiya Terry.

Annie steps forward, wining some curls from her eyes with

ahand that has recently been immersed in flour'. She

smiles, wipes the hand on the thigh of her jeans, and

shakes his hand.

Welcome.

Thank you.

And this young fellow is Moon -- uh,

Archie Graham.

Karin and Annie shake his hand.

He's come to practice with the team.

He'll be able to do more than just

practice.

What does that mean?

Come on.

They walk towards the field.

Let's enjoy this place while we still

have it.

132 EXT. BASEBALL FIELD - NIGHT

Ray and Annie walk silently with their arms around each

other as they lead Mann, Archie and Karin to the bleachers.

Mann's eyes widen as several of the players shout greetings

to Ray.

Hi, Ray, welcome back.

Thanks, Joe. Good to see you.

Oh my Lord.

What.

That's Shoeless Joe Jackson!

Well of course it is.

I've seen pictures. Those are the White

Sox!

You mean you still didn't believe me?

I thought I did, but... Oh my Lord.

They have reached the foul line where Shoeless Joe waits

for them.

Terry, I'd like you to meet Joe Jackson.

Joe, this is Terry Mann.

Mann and Jackson shake hands.

It's a pleasure to meet you.

Pleasure's mine.

Ray, I hope you don't mind, but we got

tired of just having practices, so we

brought another team out with us so we

could have some real games.

He points to the visitors' bench, and, indeed, there are

a dozen or so more old-time baseball players in old-time

baseball uniforms.

I don't mind. Where'd they come from?

Where'd we come from. Man, you wouldn't

believe how many guys wanted to play

here. We had to beat 'em off with a

stick.

Hey, that's Mel Ott. And Carl Hubbell.

Those are the New York Giants!

With a couple of Cardinals and A's

thrown in for good measure. Ty Cobb

wanted to play, but none of us could

stand the sonofabitch when we were

alive, so we told him to stuff it.

Hey, are you Graham?

Yes sir.

Ray and Mann are astonished that Shoeless Joe knows who

Archie is.

What the hell you doing on the

sidelines? You came here to play ball,

didn't you?

Yes sir.

Go warm up!

Yes sir!

Archie quickly scampers down the bleachers, onto the field,

shakes Joe's hand, and runs to the dugout.

Unbelievable.

It's more than that. It's perfect.

The White Sox are in the field, the Giants at bat. A Giant

hitter bunts, and the runner on second takes third despite

a close throw.

Mann, Ray, Karin and Annie are in the stands, Mann keeping

score.

Does he get a hit for that?

Karin?

Um, no. The batter was trying to

sacrifice.

So how do you score it?

Fielder's choice?

Very good.

Mann is impressed. He lifts Karin up from her seat on the

row below them, and places her next to him to help him.

You better sit here.

Karin beams. Ray taps Mann and points to the plate.

Look.

Archie Graham -- now wearing a Giant's uniform -- drops one

of the two bats he has been swinging in the on-deck circle,

and advances on the plate, slashing the air with a

brand-new bat the color of vanilla ice cream. He plants

himself in the batter's b.ox, then cocks the bat, the top

end of it trembling as if he were stirring something, and

waits for the pitch.'

The pitcher looks in for his signs. Archie stares back.

As the pitcher goes into his windup, Archie winks at him.

There is a moment of confusion and then anger on the

pitcher's face, and when the ball speeds to the plate it

is aimed right at Archie's head. He dives out of the way

and hits the dirt hard. The Catcher chuckles through his

mask.

Good thing for you that wasn't his

fastball.

Archie digs in again at the plate, but backs up just a

little. Now his look to the pitcher is one of

determination.

Come on, let's see your fastball.

The pitcher smiles, winds up and throws. Very fast. And

right at Archie's chin. Again, he has to dive out of the

way. This time, however, he gets right up and immediately

appeals to the Umpire.

Hey, ump, how about a warning?

Sure. Watch out-you don't get killed.

Both benches laugh at that. Archie holds up his hands to

call time, and steps out of the batter's box. The on-deck

batter, Mel Ott, comes over.

Okay, kid, first two were high and

tight, where do you think the next one's

going to be?

Either-low and away, or in my ear.

He don't want to load the bases. Look

for low and away.

Archie nods and starts to walk back to the plate.

But watch out for 'in your ear.'

Archie takes his place in the batter's box again. He still

looks determined, but a little less cocky. The next pitch

is a curve that looks as if it's heading right for him.

But he holds his ground, and when the ball breaks down and

away, he steps in, snaps the bat forward, and hits it.

The ball sails in a high arc to right center. The center

fielder backs up a couple of steps, lopes a few strides to

his left, and makes the catch.

Archie is out, but the runner on third tags up and scores.

As Archie curls across the diamond from the first baseline

to the Giants' bench, he hears cheering.

In the stands, Ray, Annie, Karin and Mann are giving him

a standing ovation. In return, he touches the brim of his

cap, a ballplayer's cool response to adulation.

Look at that. Mr. Cool.

But when Archie gets to the bench, he can't contain himself

anymore. He leaps up and lets out a cheer of pure joy.

134 THE FIELD - LATER 134

The game has ended, and players are rough-housing and

joking as they slowly make their way to the door in the

outfield fence. Ray and Mann are talking to some of the

players over the fence.

Where do you go when you walk through

that door? What do you do?

We sleep.

And wait.

We dream.

You can't leave the field any other way,

can you?

Not if we want to come back.

I'd love to go with you sometime.

The silence that follows is long and ominous.

I'd like to see what's out there.

There is still no response.

I'll take that as a no for now.

He spots Archie jogging off the field.

Hey, slugger, congratulations!

Archie jogs over.

Thanks. I can't stop shaking I'm so

happy. 'Course, I would've liked a base

hit...

But you got a RBI!

I sure did, didn't I?

A rookie's luck!

They all laugh at that.

Well come on, this calls for a drink.

Archie hesitates.

I can't. I'm...

He motions with his head toward the other players

disappearing through the outfield door. Ray nods

understandingly.

Good game, Archie.

Thanks.

Good night, kid.

Ray, Karin, Annie and Mann watch Archie jog towards the

rest of the players. When he reaches the fence, he turns

back to them.

Mr. Kinsella?

Ray turns toward him. Archie looks as if he knows more

than he's saying.

Thank you for bringing me here. I

couldn't have wished for anything more.

Ray recognizes there may be more behind those words than

just a teenager's pleasure. But he decides not to ask any

questions.

I know. You're welcome.

Archie runs through the door in the fence and vanishes.

135 INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Mann and Karin eat their country breakfasts at one and of

the table, while at the other end, Annie and Ray sit in

front of the bank books, ledgers, and the sheaf of bills

puffed up around the paper spike.

Once we fell behind in the payments, the

full amount of the mortgage became due.

And they own the paper, so they have the

legal right to foreclose.

Unless we sell.

Either way we lose the farm. Maybe we

can make it a condition of the sale that

they keep the field up.

Forget it. They're buying up single

farms all around us, make it one big

farm. First thing they'll do is plow

under your field.

Ray just sits there, letting that sink in.

136 EXT. FARM - DAY

1.36

Ray and Mann walking.

I don't have a lot of money, Ray, but

maybe I could pitch in a little.

Fine. You can put in twenty bucks for

groceries.

That's not what I meant. Maybe the

reason you were supposed to find me was

so I could help you with this.

More likely it's that you're supposed

to start writing again. About this.

Don't change the subject.

You promise to publish and I'll let you

chip in from your royalties.

Mann's expression suddenly turns to one of indignation.

One thing has nothing to do with the

other.

I'm not sure I agree with that.

You're not only stubborn, you're stupid.

That I won't argue with.

Annie emerges from the house and calls to Ray.

Honey, that was Mark. He's coming

tonight. He needs a decision tonight.

Again, it's J,oe Jackson's Chicago White Sox against the New

York Giants, now featuring rookie Archie Graham.

In the stands, Mann keeps score, Karin munches on a hot

dog, and Annie and Ray snuggle together to watch the game.

Everything is so perfect here.

Whatever I have to do to save this

place, I'll do.

I know.

Suddenly, Ray snaps his head to the side, as one does to

pick up a-distant sound.

He's here.

They look and see Mark's car heading up the gravel lane.

He parks the car at the edge of the field, and the game

stops as he walks right across it, completely mindless of

the players. Since he doesn't see any of them, a few

actually have to move out of his way. He approaches the

bottom of the bleachers.

You're interrupting the game, . Mark.

Mark shakes his head sadly at the thought that these

otherwise sensible relations have lost their minds.

Ray, it's time'to put away our little

fantasies and come down to earth.

It's not a fantasy, Mark. They're real.

Mark obviously do.esn't see anyone on the field.

Who's real?

Shoeless Joe Jackson. The White Sox.

The Giants.

He can't see any of it.

And who's that? Babe Ruth?

Ray smiles, savoring the moment.

As a matter of fact, it's Terence Mann.

Ah, how do you? I'm Michael Jackson.

Ray, we have to settle this thing right

now.

I'm not selling you my home.

You have no money, you've got a stack

of bills to choke a pig, and come fall,

you've got no crop to sell. But I have

a deal to offer you that will allow you

to stay on this land.

This has Ray's attention. Mark climbs the bleachers to

stand closer to him.

Daddy, we don't have to sell the farm.

But no one pays her any attention. All eyes are on Mark.

Let us buy you out, and we'll leave the

house. You can live in it rent free as

long as you want.

What about the baseball field?

Do you realize what this land is worth?

Over $2200 an acre.

Then you must realize we cannot keep a

useless baseball diamond in the middle

of rich farmland.

No deal, Mark. We're staying.

We don't have to go.

You're virtually bankrupt, and I'm

offering you a way to keep your home

because I love my sister! I've got

partners who don't give a damn about

you, and they're ready to foreclose

right now!

Daddy, we don't have to sell the farm.

Karin, please!

Wait.

They all turn to Karin.

People will come.

What people, sweetheart?

From all over. They'll just decide to

take a vacation, see, and they'll come

to Iowa City, and they'll think it's

really boring, so they'll take a drive.

And they'll drive down our road, and

they'll see the lights and they'll think

it's really pretty.

Ray, Annie, and Mann listen with wonder, to this vision.

So, the people in the cars? They'll

drive up and they'll want to pay us,

like buying a ticket.

Mark looks at them all as if they're crazy.

You're not listening to this seriously,

are you?

Yes.

Why would anybody pay money to come

here?

Karin looks at her Uncle mark as if he were a simpleton.

To watch the game. And it'll be just

like when they were little kids a long

time ago, and it was summertime, and

they'll watch the game and .remember what

it was like.

Ray and Annie couldn't be prouder of their daughter than

they are right now.

What the hell is she talking about?

She's talking about people seeing their

memories... touching their past.

People will come.

It'll be like one of those tiny, French

restaurants that have no sign. You find

it by instinct. They'll be drawn.

Okay, this is all fascinating, but the

fact remains that you don't have the

money to bring the mortgage up to date,

so you still have to sell. I'm sorry,

but you have no choice.

He produces a document and hands it to Ray with a pen. Ray

looks at it. He doesn't know what to do.

Ray...

Ray looks at Mann.

- 1.38

speaks now as he has not spoken for many years: as Terence

Mann, master of words, spellbinder.

People will come, Ray. They'll come to

Iowa for reasons they can't even fathom.

They'll turn up your driveway, not

knowing for sure why they're doing it,

and arrive at your door, innocent as

children, longing for the past. 'Of

course we won't mind if you look

around,' you'll say. 'It's only twenty

dollars per person.' And they'll pass

over the money without even looking at

it. For it is money they have, and

peace they lack.

pushes the papers. forward.

Just sign the papers, Ray.

is not one to give up.

They'll walk out to the bleachers and

sit in shirtsleeves in the perfect

evening, or they'll find they have

reserved seats somewhere in the

grandstand or along one of the baselines

-- wherever they sat when they were

children and cheered their heroes.

They'll watch the game, and it will be

as if they'd dipped themselves in magic

waters. The memories will be so thick

they'll have to brush them away from

their faces.

Spellbound, Ray has put the papers down. Mark picks them

up again. He is battling Mann for Ray's attention.

Listen to me. Tomorrow morning, when

the bank opens, they will foreclose.

People will come, Ray.

You're broke, Ray. Sell now or lose

everything.

The one constant through all the years,

Ray, has been baseball. America has

rolled by like an`army of steamrollers.

It's been erased like a blackboard,

rebuilt, and erased again. But baseball

has marked the time. This field, this

game... it's a piece of our past. It

reminds us of all that once was good.

And that could be again. People will

come. People will most definitely come.

Mann has moved everyone (but Mark) with the beauty of his

words, and the passion in his.voice. Behind him, the

assembled ballplayers respectfully applaud.

That was beautiful...

The other players nod, also teary-eyed.

.fuckin' beautiful.

The players on either side of him jab his ribs with their

elbows, but Mann, Ray and Annie laugh with pleasure.

Ray. You will lose everything and you

will be evicted.

Ray looks at the paper with dread. He looks at Shoeless

Joe and the players. He looks at his family. Then he

turns back to Mark. It's decision time.

I'm not signing.

Mark shakes his head sadly. Annie hugs Ray. The players

breathe a great sigh of relief. Mann smiles.

Ray...

Ray looks up at Mann, who, with a gentle tilt of the head,

directs Ray's attention to the house. Ray looks behind him

toward the house.

142 RAY'S POINT OF VIEW - CARS 142

have parked in front of the house. More are coming quietly

down the driveway. Dozens of cars. Cars with out-of-state

license plates.

Some people,have gotten out of their cars and wait

patiently. One or two families sit on their hoods, or have

set up picnic dinners on their station wagons' tailgates.

They're he-re.

Mark looks at the house and then back at Ray.

Who's here?

(with an edge)

You don't see those cars? All those

people?

Don't do this, you son of a bitch!

There's no cars, no people...

Uncle Mark, I can see them.

We all can.

You're crazy. You're all bat-shit

crazy!

Watch your language, Mark.

You build a baseball field in the middle

of nowhere, you sit around here and

stare at nothing ---

It's not nothing.

Mark grabs Karin's arm and pulls her to her feet as if she

were "Exhibit A."

And you've turned your daughter into a

goddamn moron!

Get your hands off her.

Ray rises threateningly, and Mark turns toward him. In so

doing, he twists little Karin off balance.

I'm trying to help you, goddamnit!

In that split second, they hear a strangled gasp, and see

Karin falling forward from the top row of the bleachers.

Karin!!

Her hot dog flies off, the bun and wiener separating in

midair. One small sandal bounces end over end and lands

at the foot of the bleacher. It takes forever for her body

to come down with a sickening thud on the hard green boards

of one of the bottom rows.

rush down to where she lies, face up. Ray is first, but

he does not know what to do. Annie and Mann hover. Mark

is horror-stricken, but no one knows what to do.

Oh my God, I'm sorry...Annie...I didn't

mean to...

Karin is unconscious, and seems to be fighting for breath.

Ray and Annie's eyes meet in anguish.

Should we move her?

Get the car.

springs for the house. The tourists by their cars watch

quietly.

Is there a doctor? A nurse? Any of

you?

They sadly shake their heads no. Annie races inside.

147 BACK AT THE BLEACHERS

Most of the White Sox players stand by the left field

fence, staring silently.

How long?

Its a twenty-minute drive.

Mann winces. He knows that could be fatal. Ray kneels by

Karin. Her nose and one side of her face have been scraped

by the fall. Blood starts to trickle from her nose, across

her cheek and down her neck. She is becoming bluer and her

cough is faint, as though she is in another room.

Mark takes off his $300 pale-green velvet corduroy jacket

and is wordlessly holding it out to Ray. Ray takes the

jacket and covers Karin gently.

Karin is getting paler, bluer, and her breathing more

strained and distant.

Karin...

Then, without reason, Ray slowly turns toward the field.

The White Sox stand near him by the fence, the Giants stay

around their bench. All except one: young Archie Graham.

has noticed the'commotion in the bleachers, and he starts

to lope across the field.

Annie has pulled the car over and honks. Ray holds up his

hand to her to wait. His eyes are on young Archie Graham.

150 YOUNG ARCHIE GRAHAM

-- and when he emerges from the

shadows on the bleachers side, he is no longer young

Moonlight Graham, the ballplayer of long ago...but Doc

Graham, the old man from Chisholm, Minnesota. His baseball

glove has turned into a black doctor's bag.

as Doc Graham approaches.

What have we got here?

She fell.

Doc kneels beside her and instantly knows what is wrong.

This child's choking to death.

He picks her up with one hand under her shoulders and the

other under her knees, seats himself on the bleachers, and

turns her face down. Supporting her chest with one hand,

he delivers a series of sharp blows between her shoulder

blades with the heel of his other hand.

Annie honks again. Ray waves her to him. Mark cannot

believe what he is seeing.

Suddenly, Karin's diaphragm expands as she sucks in air.

Doc reaches around and pries her mouth open, releasing a

sizable piece of hog dog and bun.

As he turns her over, we can see the blueness disappearing

from her face as she continues to breathe deeply. Doc

peels back each eyelid in turn, stares at the pupil for a

few seconds, and lets the eye close.

She's okay. I don't think the fall

really hurt her, just the dog in her

throat. She'll be coming around in a

minute or two.

Thank you, Doc.

Doc looks deeply into Ray's eyes.

No, son. Thank you.

It just now sinking for Ray what-Doc Graham has sacrificed

to save the child. Ray looks to the field, and then back

at the Doctor.

'Oh, my God, you can't go back.

It's okay...

It's okay.

152 MARK AND ANNIE

Mark is slack-jawed. He has seen something magical happen

and cannot explain it.

I saw...A11 of a sudden this kid runs

off the field and turns.into...

He looks questioningly at Annie. She smiles reassuringly.

There's hope for you yet, Mark.

153 RAY AND DOC GRAHAM

Doc Graham stands, and picks up his black bag.

Well, I best be getting back home before

Alicia starts to thinking I've got a

girlfriend.

He walks around the edge of the fence, and heads for the

outfield door. The players respectfully make way for him.

Good work, Doc.

Way to go, Doc.

Thanks, boys. Win one for me, someday,

will you?

He passes them.

Hev rookie!

Doc Graham turns.

You were good.

Only now do Doc Graham's eyes shine with tears. He smiles,

and disappears through the door.

154 ON THE SIDE

Karin is coming to, Ray and Annie by her side. Some of the

players start to gather up their equipment. Shoeless Joe

calls to Ray.

We're gonna call it a night. We'll see

you tomorrow.

Okay.

Hey! You wanna come with us?

Ray's jaw drops.

You mean it?

Not you.

(points to Mann)

Him.

Him?

Come with you?

Out there.

What is out there?

Come find out.

Wait a second. Why him?

Shoeless Joe and the other players wait for Mann to join

them, ignoring Ray's question.

I built this field! You wouldn't be

here if it weren't for me.

Ray, for God's sake, I'm unattached.

You've got a family.

This takes Ray down a peg or two.

But I want to know what's out there! I

want to see it!

There's a reason they chose me, just as

there was a reason they chose you to

find me.

Oh yeah? Why?

Because, you big jerk, I gave that

interview.

What interview?

The one about Ebbets Field. The one

that charged you up and sent you all the

way to Boston to find me.

Then you lied to me.

You were kidnapping me at the time, you

asshole! Think of it, Ray: maybe

there's an Ebbets Field still floating

around out there somewhere. And maybe

I'll get to sit in the stands, and watch

a twenty-year-old kid with a smooth face

and kinky hair try out for the 1948

Dodgers.

(to Shoeless Joe)

So I do all the work, and all I get is

to see everybody else's dreams come

true. Is that it?

What are you saying, Ray?

I'm saying I'm happy for you, and I'm

happy for him, but after all

this what's in it L for me?

Is that why you did this? For-you?

There's something out there for me, Ray.

And what a story it'll make: a man

being able to touch the perfect dream.

Then you'll write about it?

You bet I will.

Annie walks Karin over. Ray bends down to Karin's face.

How you feeling, honey?

Stupid.

Ray laughs and hugs her. He looks up at Annie.

Terry's been invited to go-with the

players.

You mean 'out'?

Out.

Doo-doo-doo-doo. Be careful.

She smiles brightly and gives Mann a kiss on the cheek.

Mann shakes Ray's hand.

I want a full description.

-You take care of this family, Ray.

Mann joins several of the White Sox as they leave the

field.

is absolutely dumbfounded as'he sees the players fade out

upon walking through the outfield gate. He turns to Annie.

He just... Where'd he...?

15.5 CONTINUED

You go inside and lie down. I'll

explain later.

Mark walks off toward the people in their cars outside the house.

Where'd all these people come from...?

156 BACK AT THE FIELD

2.56

Only a few players are left on the field.

We're keeping this field.

You bet your ass we are.

Ray realizes Shoeless Joe is staring at him, with a

shit-eating grin on his face.

What..

Shoeless Joe just keeps smiling.

What're you grinning at, you ghost?

'If you build it...

He nods toward where the catcher is taking off his gear at home plate.

' .he will come.'

Ray looks at the Catcher. The hairs on the back of his

neck begin to stand up.

Oh, my God.

What is it?

Its my father.

157 THE YOUNG CATCHER

has taken off his mask. He is in his early twenties. He

is in the same pose as the photo we saw in the prologue.

158 RAY AND SHOELESS JOE

Ray blanches and turns to Shoeless Joe, his voice a

strangled whisper.

Say it ain't so,- Joe.

I'm afraid it is, kid.

The Catcher is now walking toward Ray.

'Ease his pain...'

(smiles and nods)

'Go the distance.'

When he says those words, Shoeless Joe sounds just like The

Voice.

It was you.

160 RAY AND ANNIE

The Catcher is halfway across the field. Ray turns to

Annie. He cannot even swallow.

My God, I only saw him later, when he

was worn down by life. Look at him.

The young Catcher has reached the outfield grass. Ray

walks down to the edge of the outfield.

He has his whole life in front of him,

and I'm not even a glint in his eye.

What do I say to him?

Introduce him to his granddaughter.

Ray cannot believe how wonderful Annie is. The Catcher has

reached the edge of the field, and now stands before Ray

and Annie.

Hi, I just wanted to thank you folks for

putting up the field and letting us play

here. I'm John Kinsella.

They shake his hand.

I'm Ray. My wife Annie. And this is

my daughter, Karin.

Karin, this is...

He almost says "My father."

Ray and Annie are beaming. Annie takes Karin's hand.

We're going to let you two talk. I have

to go look after our guests. Someone's

gotta start collecting admission if

we're going to keep this place.

(to the Catcher)

Very nice meeting you.

M' am.

hoists Karin up and totes her toward the tourists waiting

in front of the house.

162 RAY AND JOHN

watch them for a while, then start to,stroll across the

field.

You catch a good game.

Thank you. It's so beautiful here. Its

like-well for me, it's like a dream

come true.

Ray cannot speak. He nods.

Can I ask you something?

Again, Ray nods.

Is this heaven?

Ray smiles and shakes his head no.

It's Iowa.

Iowa. I could've sworn this was heaven.

stops and looks intently at John. He asks this question

as if he were asking the secret of life. Maybe he is.

Is there a heaven?

takes time to answer that. He looks up at the night sky

and searches it.

Oh, yeah...

Then he looks square into Ray's eyes.

Heaven's where dreams come true.

looks toward the house and sees his wife and daughter on

the veranda, a moon bright as butter silvering the night

above them. He smiles. He finally understands. He turns

back to John and nods.

Then maybe this is heaven.

smiles wisely in return.

Well...good night, Ray.

Good night.

John starts to walk off toward the door in the outfield

fence.

Hey!

John turns back. Ray is holding a ball.

You wanna have a catch?

John closes his eyes for a second, and when he opens them;

there is the hint of moisture. Does he know Ray is his

son?

I'd like that.

Ray tosses him the ball, picks up a glove lying there, and

puts it on.

They throw the ball back and forth.

And as we pull up higher and higher we see a father and son

bathed by white floodlights and car headlights... on the

silent, satiny green of a baseball diamond at the edge of

a cornfield.

