Five Easy Pieces

By

Carole Eastman

TITLE SEQUENCE:

The Bach-Vivaldi A-Minor Concerto for Four Pianos

PLAYS OVER a series of family album photographs.

Written in careful penmanship beneath each are

names identifying family members:

1ST PHOTO: A man stands in front of the raised

sounding board of a piano, playing the viola.

Seated on the piano bench, accompanying him, is a

woman in a maternity dress:

"Isabelle and Nicholas"

2ND PHOTO: A boy of 11, wearing conductor's tails

and holding a raised baton in his right hand as if

about to gesture a downbeat:

"Herbert Kreutzer Dupea"

3RD PHOTO: Another boy of approximately 9, in the

act of playing the violin:

"Carl Fidelio Dupea"

4TH PHOTO: The two boys are now poised behind the

piano. Seated on its bench is a girl of 6, her

hands resting on the keyboard. Written beneath:

"Elizabeth Partita Dupea"

5TH PHOTO: The above family group, seated on the

porch of the Dupea home. All eyes but Isabelle's

are faced toward the camera. She beams upon a 3

year-old asleep in her arms, his head resting

against her bosom. His figure is encircled by the

pen's marking and preceding his name is the

configuration of a small heart:

"Robert Eroica Dupea"

INT. MUSIC ROOM - DUPEA HOME - DAY

BACH-VIVALDI OVER:

A 7-year-old BOBBY sits in a chair, his feet

dangling in absent-minded rhythm to a chamber piece

played by his father, his two brothers and his

sister.

CLOSE ON a metronome, marking a slow etude rhythm.

The CAMERA MOVES from it to Bobby, on the piano

bench beside his mother. As she patiently

demonstrates the etude for him, he places a thumb

in his mouth and leans against her arm.

ON THE METRONOME at an andante rhythm. CARL and

TITA, now in their teens, are seated side by side

on the piano bench, playing four-hands with

dazzling virtuosity.

The CAMERA MOVES from them to a framed newspaper

article on the music-room wall. Below a photograph

of a 20-year-old young man are the words: "Herbert

Kreutzer Dupea - Seattle's Youngest Guest

Conductor."

INT. RECITAL HALL GREEN ROOM - NIGHT

BACH-VIVALDI OVER:

Bobby, at 10, wearing a dress suit. His mother

combs his hair with maternal concentration.

CLOSE-UP of a program announcing a Dupea family

recital. The CAMERA SCANS down the bill, over:

Sonata in C Major for Two Violins - Bach - Played

by Nicholas and Carl Dupea.

Like As a Lovelorn Turtle - Hendel - Sung by

Isabelle Dupea.

Rondo Alla Turca - Mozart - Played by Elizabeth

Dupea.

Piano Sonata, Opus 110 - Beethoven - Played by

Herbart Dupea.

The CAMERA COMES to rest on:

Five Easy Pieces - Grebner - Played by Robert

Dupea.

INT. MORTUARY CHAPEL - DAY

Five Easy Pieces, played haltingly OVER the torsos

of a line of people moving slowly down the chapel

aisle.

ANOTHER ANGLE

shows a solemn procession of the above, filing by

an open casket holding Isabelle Dupea.

ON THE FAMILY PEW

The CAMERA PANS from NICHOLAS, seated on the aisle,

to the four adult children seated next to him and

COMES TO REST on Bobby. His gaze is cast down to

his lap, as he refuses to look at:

The pale profile of his mother's face resting

within the satin folds of the casket lining, and...

... as the last of the "family friends" pay their

respect: Nicholas steps out into the aisle and,

followed by Tita, Carl and HERBERT, moves down

toward the casket.

Bobby rises from his seat and makes his way toward

the aisle, where he hesitates briefly, then turns

and walks up the aisle and out the chapel doors.

TITLES END

EXT. SIGNAL HILL OIL FIELD - DAY

TAMMY WYNETTE'S "STAND BY YOUR MAN" OVER:

The toothed bucket of a back hoe trenches into the

earth, then lifts up into the air, revealing Bobby

in hard-hat and heavy gloves, operating the levers.

As the hoe swings off to the side and deposits a

load of earth into the rear of a truck...

... a SERIES OF SHOTS begins, showing Bobby and a

fellow hard-hat (ELTON) engaged in the dirty and

dangerous task of working "crew" with a team of

TOOL-PUSHERS on the derricks of Signal Hill.

Functioning as servants of the well and its pumps,

the PULL rods, MAKE and BREAK joints on the rig

floor, WELD tubing, CARRY pipes, CLIMB the "tour,"

and PLAY THE DOZENS on beer wagon breaks.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - SIGNAL HILL - NIGHT

ABOVE SONG OVER:

Bobby, still in his hard hat, as he drives. Out

through the window, the derricks of the Hill can be

seen, their night-work lights on.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - NIGHT

SONG OVER:

FOLLOWING ON the car as it moves off the Hill into

the seamy districts adjacent to it, passing by fast

food joints, liquor stores, all-night porno parlors

and neon-lighted bars.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - NIGHT

SONG OVER:

ON BOBBY'S FACE:

as he stares out through the windshield, his eyes

distant, dwelling in an oblivion that blanks both

the present and past.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - NIGHT

SONG OVER:

The car pulls onto a low-rent residential street

and comes to a stop in front of a small bungalow.

Bobby exits the car, moves up the walkway to the

house and disappears inside.

INT. RAYETTE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

SONG OVER:

Bobby, seated on the couch, a can of beer in hand,

staring morosely across the room, to:

A PORTABLE STEREO,

playing the song:

RAYETTE DIPESTO,

in a waitress's uniform with a bowl of beer nuts.

After placing them on the coffee table in front of

him, she leans down and kisses him. Challenged by a

less than reciprocal response, she kisses him more

fervently. As she moves her lips from his ear to

his neck, he lifts the can to his mouth and drinks.

The song concludes, and setting aside her ardor for

the moment:

As she starts for the stereo, he takes hold of her

hand.

Again, he prevents her from moving to the stereo

and pulls her down onto the couch.

He picks up one of the couch pillows and holds it

over his ear.

She pulls it from his hand.

She immediately softens and tries to become more

"refined."

Very hurt, she sits up and looks away from him. He

finishes the beer and holds the can out to her.

And, as she turns and goes toward the kitchen:

Through the open door to the kitchen, Rayette can

be seen opening the refrigerator. She takes out a

can of beer and returns to Bobby.

She hands him the can and sits back down on the

couch.

He gestures at the name tag on her dress, and, as

we'll find he often does, speaks in the Okie-Arky

accent he's learned from working the rigs:

She sits down and begins removing the tag.

She thinks about it, then moves closer to him and

begins unbuttoning his workshirt, as:

The response makes her deeply insecure and she

immediately lays her body against his...

... and initiates another round of kissing.

INT. BOWLING ALLEY - NIGHT

Bobby lifts his ball from the return rack, moves to

the lane and bowls a perfect strike. Making a self

congratulatory gesture of triumph, he turns back

to:

Elton, seated at the scoring table. His wife,

STONEY, is seated beside Rayette on the horseshoe

banquette. As he addresses Rayette, we note that

Elton's two front teeth are missing.

She rises and moves to the rack.

Picking up ball, she moves to the head of the lane

and slings it down the alley, watching hopefully

as...

... it rolls off to the right and takes only one

pin.

ON BOBBY

as she moves to her second ball.

ON RAYETTE

as she bowls the ball down the right-hand rut and

comes back to the banquette, apologizing:

He looks past her to Stoney, about to bowl her

ball.

And as Stoney bowls a strike, Rayette hugs his arm.

And as Elton bowls a strike...

He gets up and passes Elton on his way to the rack.

Rayette, to Stoney as she watches Bobby prepare to

bowl:

And as he makes another strike and returns to the

banquette, she gets up and throws her arms around

him. He returns her embrace, smiling over her

shoulder at:

Two heavily made-up young women (TWINKY and BETTY)

taking possession of the adjacent lane. (Note that

Betty is of diminutive proportions, while Twinky is

Amazonian.)

He remains standing, watching as she throws another

gutter ball and then comes back toward him, alibi

ing:

She moves to the rack and, concentrating hard,

advances down the lane and releases the ball. It

rolls slowly down the center, hits at precisely the

right spot and clears the pins.

Ecstatic, she comes back to the banquette, seating

herself beside Bobby and trying to solicit a

response from him.

Turning to address the two young women over the

back of the banquette.

Rayette pulls off her rental shoes and throws them

to the floor.

He stretches his arms out on the back of the

banquette as though he intends to reside there

awhile.

She grabs her sling-back and her purse and as she

gets up:

As she picks up her belongings and follows Rayette:

Elton moves off and Bobby, now full of remorse,

slumps into a depressed reverie. Beyond him, Betty

and Twinky, can be seen, engaged in some discussion

concerning him.

A WAITRESS with a tray approaches and leans down to

him.

He takes some loose bills from his pocket and lays

them on her tray. She thanks him and moves off. As

he reaches down and pulls on one of his boots,

Twinky approaches behind him and leans down over

the back of the banquette.

Betty appears on the other side of the banquette.

Twinky reaches over to the scoring table, picking

up a pencil and a score sheet.

He glances at the dwarfish Betty.

EXT. BOWLING ALLEY PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Rayette sits sulking in Bobby's car. He comes up to

the passenger window and leans down to her.

He casually slaps the outside of the door.

He walks off through the lot.

ON RAYETTE

staring out through the windshield.

ON BOBBY

as he stops and comes back to the car.

No response.

He opens the door and gets inside, putting his arm

around her.

He hesitates briefly, then:

Though hardly an undying declaration, it's close

enough to fill her with forgiveness. Reaching over,

she pulls him into her arms.

EXT. SIGNAL HILL DERRICK - DAY

KALEIDOSCOPIC SERIES OF SCENES, showing Elton and

Bobby WORKING THE RIG as part of a four-man team.

The DRILLER stands back, giving them directives,

while the prestigious DERRICKMAN, the "star" of the

team, lounges around in the b.g. Though he has been

working the fields for some months, it is apparent

that Bobby is still somewhat of a novice in the

operations of the rig.

FADE OVER ABOVE ACTIONS, to:

INT. SIGNAL HILL DOGHOUSE - DAY

An impromptu card game, taking place on a lunch

break.

(IMPROVISED) Bobby, in a buoyant mood, lays down a

winning poker hand and rakes in a pile of bills and

change lying on the table. The participants include

Elton and THREE OTHER TOOLPUSHERS. In the b.g., as

the game continues, other "HANDS" can be seen

changing clothes.

INT. TWINKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Bobby sits morosely on the couch beside Twinky. One

of his arms is around her, the other holds a can of

beer. Both he and Twinky are looking at...

... Elton, who rides Betty on his leg as both sing

"Ride a Cockhorse To Banbury Cross." She begins to

laugh with the hysterical abandon of a child, and

Elton, nearly beside himself, looks over to Bobby.

EXT. SIGNAL HILL FIELD - DAY

(ELTON SINGING A RANK DOGHOUSE SONG OVER:)

REMOTE ANGLE ON BOBBY AND ELTON

Having been up all night, drinking, they move

unsteadily toward a derrick and are intercepted by

the driller as they climb the stairs to the rig

floor. He informs them they are unfit to work and

"impolitely" eighty-sixes them for the day.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - FREEWAY - DAY

(ELTON SINGING OVER:)

Bobby's car slows as it moves into a freeway jam.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - FREEWAY - DAY

He gestures out at the traffic as Elton, strumming

a ukelele, concludes his song.

He takes a drink from a half pint of bard liquor,

then angrily hits at the steering wheel.

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

A few cars ahead, a truck can be seen carrying

several furniture pieces protected by padded

covers.

EXT. FREEWAY JAM - DAY

The assholes are going nowhere and other cars close

up behind and to both sides of Bobby's car.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - FREEWAY - DAY

He suddenly throws the car into "park"...

... opens the door and gets out.

EXT. FREEWAY - DAY

ON BOBBY

moving down the freeway, away from his car. Behind,

Elton can be seen sliding over into the driver's

seat.

ANOTHER ANGLE

as Bobby steps up onto the fender of a car, looking

for the cause of the jam.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - FREEWAY - DAY

ON ELTON

EXT. FREEWAY - DAY

Bobby cuts in front of another car and climbs up

into the rear of the truck. Moving to the front of

it, he looks out over the cab.

POV of the glut of cars in all four lanes.

EXT. TRUCK - FREEWAY - DAY

On his way out of the truck, Bobby pauses to look

beneath one of the padded protectors, then pulls it

off to reveal an upright piano. He leans down to

the keyboard and plays a few notes.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - FREEWAY - DAY

Elton, amused.

EXT. TRUCK - FREEWAY - DAY

Bobby has pulled the bench out from beneath the

piano and, sitting himself, begins to play a Chopin

prelude.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - FREEWAY - DAY

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

Elton can be seen applauding him.

EXT. TRUCK - FREEWAY - DAY

ON BOBBY

playing as the traffic begins to move and the truck

with it.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - FREEWAY - DAY

Again, Elton leans out the window, yelling at him:

EXT. TRUCK - FREEWAY - DAY

The right-turn indicator is flashing and the truck

begins to work its way across the lanes.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - FREEWAY - DAY

ELTON'S POV

of Bobby playing, as the truck heads for an off

ramp.

ON ELTON

honking the horn and flailing his arm out the

window as he tries to cross lanes. The traffic

closes on his right, preventing him from following.

EXT. FREEWAY - DAY

ANGLE INCLUSIVE OF ELTON

hemmed into the left-hand lanes, and the truck,

with Bobby still playing, pulling away on the off

ramp.

EXT. TRUCK - LONG BEACH STREETS - DAY

(CHOPIN PRELUDE OVER:)

The truck slows and comes to a stop at a signal.

Bobby jumps out and moves to the sidewalk.

FOLLOWING with him as he wanders, boozed and

aimless, along the dispirited cheap streets of the

city.

INT. DINER - LATE NIGHT

Rayette clears some plates from an empty table and,

crossing the diner, sees...

... Bobby entering. As he takes a seat at the

counter, she goes about her tasks, ignoring him.

He watches her as she moves to the only other

customer and totals his bill.

Another waitress appears with a coffee Silex. She

gestures it at Bobby and he nods. As she pours him

a cup, Rayette moves to the register, deposits some

bills, then turns and exits to the kitchen.

EXT. REAR OF DINER - LATE NIGHT

Bobby leans against a pickup adjacent to Rayette's

car.

She comes out of the rear door of the diner,

hesitates as she sees him, then moves past him to

her car.

Maintaining her attitude of suffered injustice, she

reaches to the car door and opens it.

He reaches behind her and pushes the door shut.

Then gently taking hold of her arm, he turns her

toward him, bringing his face close to hers...

... and as she turns away, be begins to kiss her

neck. She lowers her gaze to the ground, quietly

uttering:

INT. ELTON AND STONEY'S MOBILE HOME - NIGHT

Bobby, Elton and Stoney are seated on the couch,

all looking toward the TV, playing an old black-and

white.

Rayette is seated on an adjacent chair, holding an

infant in her lap, cooing and fawning over it

throughout the following.

Rayette reaches over to Bobby.

He hands her his beer and as she takes a sip and

hands it back:

Bobby shakes his head.

Elton turns to him with a gap-toothed smile:

ON BOBBY

as he stands up...

EXT. SIGNAL HILL RIG - DAY

ON ELTON

seated on the rig floor opposite Bobby, who eats a

sandwich, as:

Bobby scowls hostilely at him.

He looks away from Elton, not wanting to hear.

ON BOBBY

as he continues:

ON ELTON

Bobby throws his sandwich onto the rig floor near

Elton's leg. He looks down at a spatter of

mayonnaise on his pants.

He spills out the remainder of coffee from his cup

and screws it onto the top of a thermos.

Elton reaches down and wipes the mayonnaise off his

pant leg.

He grabs his jacket and his lunch bucket, jumps

down off the rig and begins walking toward his car

parked by the Field Office.

In the b.g., Elton gets up and hurls his hard hat

toward Bobby.

As he approaches his car, he looks toward the

Field Office, where...

... The driller is leaning down to a car with TWO

MEN in it.

ON BOBBY

calling over to him:

The driller gestures a direction to the driver of

the car, and as it pulls off, he moves toward the

office:

The driller opens the office door and looks back to

Bobby.

He goes into the office and closes the door.

ON BOBBY

throwing his jacket and his lunch bucket into his

car. As he starts to get in, his attention is drawn

back to the rig.

POV:

The car that held the two men is parked next to it,

and both men are on the rig platform moving toward

Elton. He backs away from them, breaks toward the

rig tour and starts to climb it. One of the men

catches hold of his leg and yanks him back. Elton

pulls loose from him, jumps to the ground and

begins running with both men in pursuit.

He starts sprinting back to the rig.

The first man has a hold on Elton and is struggling

to subdue him. He is joined by the second man, and

as they force his arms behind his back and cuff his

wrists...

... Bobby MOVES INTO FRAME, grabbing onto the first

man and wrestling him away from Elton.

Bobby hurls the man onto the ground and turns

around to go after the second man, struggling with

Elton.

The second man pushes Elton aside and as Bobby

throws a punch at him...

... the other grabs him from behind, holding him,

while the second man jams a fist into his stomach

and, as he doubles over, follows with a violent

chop to the back of his neck.

Bobby slumps to the ground, and as the first man

puts a knee into his back and prepares to handcuff

him:

The second man takes hold of Elton and starts to

move him off.

Bobby, dazed, raises his head from the dirt,

looking toward Elton.

As he starts pushing a resistant Elton toward the

car, Bobby sits up.

He takes him roughly by the arm and moves off with

the first man following.

ON BOBBY

looking toward:

The two men forcing Elton into the rear seat of the

car, as he calls back to Bobby:

They close the door on him and get into the car. As

it drives off...

Bobby sits watching until it disappears from sight,

then he sits back against a pump casing and drops

his head onto his chest.

INT. TWINKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

CLOSE ON TWINKY'S FACE

She opens her mouth and rends the air with a

keening wail. Her face beads with moisture and

journeys through expressions indistinguishable from

grief and anguish. Presently, an ecstatic and very

professional screech issues from her, after which

she reaches up and pulls Bobby down onto her,

breathing into his ear...

INT. RECORDING STUDIO - DAY

(BACH PARTITA FAINTLY UNDER:)

Bobby, dressed in a suit and tie, moves through a

network of hallways, checking the door numbers.

He arrives at a door designated as Studio A, and,

after hesitating for a moment, opens it and steps

inside.

INT. STUDIO A RECORDING BOOTH - DAY

(BACH PARTITA UNDER:)

TWO RECORDING ENGINEERS glance at him without

interest and return to their dials and needles.

Bobby looks from them through the glass partition

to the recording studio in view beyond.

POV:

ELIZABETH "TITA" DUPEA is at the piano, intensely

into the Bach. She wears a monastic-looking dress,

her unruly hair is pinned back from her face, and

her glasses lie on the bench beside her.

ON BOBBY

watching her with both affection and appreciation.

ON TITA

She is "sounding" as she plays, in tones out-of-key

and discordant with the Bach.

Bobby glances over at him, then looks back to Tita.

POV:

She hunches over the keyboard and plays an

arpeggio, humming a long monochromatic note.

Bobby is about to defend her, when the engineer

flips a toggle switch and addresses the mike

feeding into the studio:

There is no response and she continues playing.

Bobby can be seen in the b.g., having difficulty

restraining his irritation under the following:

She puts her elbows on top of the piano and drops

her head into her bands.

She makes a mumbled response, her head still in her

bands:

She raises her head, squints toward the booth, then

grabs her glasses from the bench and puts them on.

INT. RECORDING STUDIO - DAY

Bobby enters the studio and comes toward her,

opening his arms. She rushes into his embrace,

burying her face in his shoulder.

She raises her head to look at him, and verging on

tears:

A NEW ANGLE

Tita sits on the piano bench, crying and searching

through her purse for a tissue. Bobby hovers behind

her, gently patting her on the back and glancing

with some embarrassment toward the recording booth.

As she blows her nose into the tissue, a young man

comes into view, hands Bobby a paper cup and

leaves. Tita takes another tissue from her purse

and dabs at her eyes.

She quickly picks up the cup and places it on the

floor.

He sits down on the bench beside her...

... and tests it out with a brief flourish on the

keys. She watches him, then:

Bobby laughs.

Tita laughs, then:

He looks away from her, not wanting to hear any

more.

He moves away from the piano and Tita turns to look

at him.

He moves aimlessly about trying to subdue his

anguish.

He glances at her, catching her profound

disappointment.

He looks toward the booth.

She gets up from the bench and goes to him, taking

hold of his arm.

As they move to the hall door, she addresses the

booth:

She smiles at Bobby as they go out into hall.

FOLLOWING WITH THEM

down the hallway.

They stop at the stairway.

He kisses her.

Feeling herself about to break down again, she

attempts a valiant smile and stands watching as...

... Bobby turns and goes down the stairs.

EXT. RAYETTE'S HOUSE - DAY

(TAMMY WYNETTE'S "D-I-V-O-R-C-E" OVER:)

ON BOBBY

moving from his car, up the walkway and entering

Rayette's house.

INT. RAYETTE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

ON THE STEREO

playing the above song.

ON BOBBY

looking from...

... a rumpled blanket on the couch, to...

... a can of beer and a lighted cigarette burning

in an ashtray on the coffee table.

He crosses to a hall and moves down toward the

bedroom.

He steps into the doorway, to see:

Rayette, lying in bed, her back against the

pillows, staring at the wall.

No response.

She turns her gaze to the window. He looks at her

briefly, then:

As he moves to the closet:

He picks up a suitcase from the closet floor, grabs

some of his clothes from the rack, and, moving to a

chair, sets the suitcase on it and begins packing.

Rayette turns on her side, making a snorting sound

of disbelief.

He moves to a dresser, extracts his underwear and

returns to the suitcase.

He closes the suitecase, secures it...

... and picking it up, moves around the bed toward

the door. He stops, setting the suitcase on the bed

and looking down at her.

She is still faced away from him, her shoulders

trembling as she weeps soundlessly.

He looks away from her, to the window.

Returning his gaze to her:

An audible sob finally comes from her. Bobby

quickly picks up the suitcase and moves out of the

bedroom and down the hall.

EXT. RAYETTE'S HOUSE - DAY

ON BOBBY'S CAR

as he moves into view. He throws the suitcase in

through the rear window, moves around to the

driver's side and gets in.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - DAY

He starts the motor, angrily throws it into gear

and places his hands on the wheel.

INT. RAYETTE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

BOBBY'S HAND slashes at the arm of the record

player, pulling it across the grooves and stifling

Tammy Wynette.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY

(WYNETTE'S "WHEN THERE'S A FIRE IN YOUR HEART"

OVER:)

His car moves north along the Pacific Coast

Highway.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY

(WYNETTE OVER:)

ON BOBBY

looking over at Rayette and smiling.

ON RAYETTE

She returns his look with absolute devotion, then

reaches over and caresses the back of his neck.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - INLAND HIGHWAY - DAY

(WYNETTE OVER:)

OUT PAST Bobby's profile, to a Southern California

pastoral landscape passing by.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - BIG SUR COUNTRY - DAY

ON RAYETTE

singing the above song.

Bobby laughs and she looks over at him.

Bobby's attention is taken by something on the road

ahead.

POV THROUGH WINDSHIELD

of a car lying upside down on the left side of the

highway.

TWO FIGURES are standing beside it, engaged in a

heated argument.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY

Bobby pulls off onto the right-hand shoulder, stops

the car and gets out. He moves out to the center

line, looking across the road, to:

A long-haired young woman (PALM) in Levi's and

parka, presently pushing her close-cropped, boyish

looking friend (TERRY) against the side of the car

and making some indecipherable accusation.

The young woman turns and gives him the finger.

ON RAYETTE

sticking her head out the driver's window.

ON PALM

gesturing angrily back at the wreck as she crosses

toward Bobby.

Without waiting for a response, she moves back to

Terry, who is retrieving some of their belongings

from the highway.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - ON THE ROAD - DAY

Palm and Terry, still under the spell of their

roadside tiff, sit in sulky silence in the back

seat.

Bobby glances at Palm in the rear view.

Rayette turns around and, thinking Terry is a boy,

asks rather flirtatiously:

Shocked at the female voice coming from "him," she

turns back around and pokes Bobby on the leg.

She leans forward, looking annoyed.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - NORTHERN HIGHWAY - DAY

(COUNTRY & WESTERN INSTRUMENTAL OVER:)

ON THE CAR

moving through the Redwood country above San

Francisco.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY

ON BOBBY

bored, as he drives. Beside him, Rayette primps in

the sunvisor mirror.

ON THE BACK SEAT

Terry lights a cigarette while Palm, staring

morosely out the window, goes into a soliloquy:

Rayette leans around to her.

She gestures angrily out the window at the roadside

billboards.

Bobby starts to say something:

She suddenly leans over to the front seat, pointing

to a semi ahead.

Rayette turns around, asserting:

Terry laughs.

INT. ROADSIDE CAFE - DAY

All four are seated at a booth. The women have

given their orders and a WAITRESS stands above

Bobby, waiting for his:

The waitress indicates something on the menu with

the butt of her pencil.

She starts to move away and Bobby detains her.

She begins writing down his order, repeating it

sarcastically:

The other three laugh, and the waitress points to a

"Right to Refuse" sign above the counter.

Bobby glances over at it, then back to her.

He smiles politely at her, then:

He reaches his arm out and "clears" the table for

her.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - ON THE ROAD - DAY

ON PALM

in the back seat.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY

(COUNTRY & WESTERN OVER:)

ON THE CAR

moving through the Northwest coastal region.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY

Palm resumes her monologue:

She looks over at Terry, slumped in her seat,

asleep.

ON RAYETTE

asleep.

ON PALM

ON BOBBY

benumbed, his eyes glazed over as he stares out

through the windshield.

ON PALM

Though no one listens, she goes on, working herself

up:

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - TWO-LANE HIGHWAY - LATE DAY

(WYNETTE'S "WHEN THERE'S A FIRE" OVER:)

ON PALM AND TERRY

deposited at the side of the highway, with their

luggage, duffle bags and television set lying on

the road edge. Terry lifts a bored hand to wave

at...

... Bobby, behind the wheel. He waves back, pulls

out onto the highway and drives off.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - MOTEL - NIGHT

(MUSIC FADES, AS:)

The car pulls into a motel parking slot and stops.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bobby and Rayette in bed. She lies on her side,

watching him watch TV. After a moment:

No response.

He turns off the light on the night stand and rolls

onto his side, faced away from her.

They lie silently in the dark for a moment. Then:

No response.

No response.

She opens her eyes and looks over at him.

He looks around at her and with gentle good humor:

She turns an imaginary key at her lips.

He rolls over to face her and, yielding to her

request, begins to make love to ber.

EXT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Rayette following after Bobby. As he moves to his

car, he removes some cash from his wallet.

He holds out a roll of bills and as she takes them:

She moves over to him and gives him a quick kiss.

ON BOBBY

getting into the car.

She watches unhappily as he backs out of the slot

and the car pulls away.

EXT. FERRY (CROSSING) - DAY

Bobby gets out of his car and wanders the deck of

the ferry. He stops to look out over the Sound to

one of the islands off the Washington coast, then

glances back to the mainland, receding in the

distance.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - FERRY LANDING - DAY

Bobby drives off the ferry onto the island.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

The car moves over a tree-lined country lane and

presently turns off onto a private road, leading to

a large Victorian-style house. It pulls to a stop

behind two other cars.

Bobby gets out of the car and moves up the porch

steps to the front door.

CLOSER ON him as he hesitates, listening briefly to

the FAINT SOUND of two pianos coming from within.

Then he opens the door and goes inside.

INT. DUPEA HOME - DAY

(TWO PIANOS OVER:)

Bobby tentatively wanders the first floor of the

house, taking in the ghosts of the past.

In the living room, he pauses at a table to look at

several framed photographs. He picks up one of his

mother and father, looks closely at it, then gently

returns it to its place and resumes wandering.

He stops at the music room and looks in through the

half-opened door:

POV INTO MUSIC ROOM:

On the far side of the room, near windows which

give view to a verdant exterior, are two concert

grands. His brother CARL is seated at one of the

pianos, and a young woman (CATHERINE VAN OOST) is

seated at the other.

ON BOBBY

looking from Carl, to Catherine. He watches her

briefly, then steps out of the doorway...

... and moves down a hallway to a closed door. He

reaches down and opens it, looking inside to:

TITA

grooming the hair of an elderly man (NICHOLAS

DUPEA) seated in a wheelchair with his back to

Bobby.

She looks up and, seeing Bobby, smiles happily,

then reaches down and turns the wheelchair around.

ON NICHOLAS

His eyes are half-closed and are cast down to the

floor.

Bobby moves over to him, bending down and looking

into his face. Nicholas opens his eyes slightly and

gazes through Bobby into an absolute elsewhere.

Bobby raises his eyes to Tita.

INT. DUPEA DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Nicholas Dupea sits at the head of the table, being

fed his dinner by a male nurse (SPICER).

Bobby, at the opposite end of the table, is seated

next to Tita. Unable to bear looking at his father,

he glances over at Catherine, seated next to Carl

on his right.

She raises her eyes from her plate to ask him

something, just as Tita is moved to reminisce:

Bobby starts to reply and is interrupted by:

She looks at Spicer, pushing a spoon at Nicholas's

closed mouth.

Spicer lays the spoon down and begins eating his

own dinner.

He starts to ask another question and is again

overridden by:

Tita gets up from the table and, taking her plate,

exits to the kitchen. And as Carl readjusts himself

in his chair and takes a sip from his wine glass,

Bobby looks at Catherine to find her looking at

him. She quickly alters her gaze to Carl.

Finding he's amused himself and nobody else, he

gets up and addresses Bobby.

Catherine stands up and, wanting to change the

subject:

She exits and Carl, on his way out, pauses at

Bobby's chair.

He looks down table to see Spicer stacking his

plate onto Nicholas's and his eyes follow him as

he, too, moves out of the dining room to the

kitchen.

CLOSE ON BOBBY

in extreme discomfort at being left alone with his

father. He looks down at his plate, poking at the

remainder of his dinner, then braves a look down

the table.

ON NICHOLAS

looking back at him, his eyes devoid of interest or

cognition.

EXT. DUPEA GROUNDS - DAY

Bobby and Tita walk away from the house down toward

the ocean. Accompanying them is a Borzoi hound

belonging to her.

He doesn't respond.

She stops walking and moves to one of the garden

chairs, facing out toward the bay.

He leans his back against a tree.

She stares at him for a moment, and taking note of

it:

She laughs.

He offers nothing further and looks out over the

bay. Then, after a brief silence:

INT. DUPEA HOME - DAY

Bobby strolls casually about the house - in truth,

looking for an opportunity to run into Catherine.

He moves to the music room and looks inside.

THROUGH THE DOORWAY

Catherine can be seen, seated at the piano. Carl

stands above her and they engage in some exchange

about the score resting on the piano's music stand.

ON BOBBY

as he moves down the hallway and sees:

Spicer descending the staircase, with the brittle

Nicholas in his arms.

He ducks into the nearest room to avoid them.

INT. DEN - DUPEA HOME - DAY

Tita, startled in the act of appraising herself in

a mirror above the fireplace, turns around to

Bobby:

We see she wears a little make-up and has done

something "different" with her hair.

He turns and exits the den.

EXT. DUPEA HOUSE - DAY

Bobby stands on the front porch, looking toward...

... Catherine coming up from the ocean. She wears a

bathrobe over a wet bathing suit and carries a

towel, and as she approaches:

She laughs and begins drying her hair with a corner

of the towel.

She comes up the stairs.

She moves toward the front door, with Bobby

following.

INT. DUPEA HOME - DAY

Catherine comes inside and moves toward the

stairway, with Bobby behind.

She goes up a few steps and turns back to him.

At the top of the stairs, she stops and looks down

at him.

She turns and disappears into the second-floor

hallway.

INT. DUPEA KITCHEN - NIGHT

Dinner has concluded and Tita moves around the

table, distributing cups and saucers. Carl is

remote and off his feed. Spicer attends Nicholas,

and Catherine looks across the table to Bobby as he

drinks from a bottle of beer.

After a moment, a loud belch comes from Nicholas

and Tita quickly requests:

She attempts to stifle her own amusement, as do

Bobby and Catherine, then changes the subject:

Catherine begins pouring the coffee.

Tita seats herself at the table, addressing Spicer:

He nods, and as he gets up and wheels Nicholas from

the room:

He places his hands on the table and simulates the

playing of a rousing production-type show-stopper,

simultaneously vocalizing as he does.

Though Tita and Catherine are amused, Carl winces

disapprovingly and breaks into Bobby's act:

He takes hold of Catherine's hand and stands up.

And as they move to the door, she glances

apologetically back at Bobby.

Deflated and embarrassed, he looks away from Tita's

sympathetic gaze. After a brief silence, she

reaches to a platter on the table.

INT. DUPEA LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Bobby stands in the living room. It is dark and the

only light comes from some burning logs in the

fireplace. He listens briefly to the sounds of a

Beethoven sonata coming from the music room...

... then moves to a chaise near the fireplace and

lies down, staring absently into the flames. After

a moment, he closes his eyes.

ANOTHER ANGLE

on his sleeping face as the sonata begins to FADE.

INT. DUPEA LIVING ROOM - MORNING

ON BOBBY

still asleep in the chaise. He is suddenly jolted

awake by a loud thud and sits up, looking out the

window to:

POV OF SPICER

lifting a barbell with heavy weights attached to

it. He does a series of vigorous presses with it,

before he again lets the bar drop heavily onto the

porch.

INT. DUPEA HOME - UPSTAIRS HALL - DAY

(BACH VIOLIN OVER:)

Bobby stands in the hallway, a phone to his ear,

listening to Rayette and looking down the hall

toward the open door to Catherine's room.

He listens again, his eyes on Catberine, moving

around in her room.

He hangs up and, as he starts down the hall to

Catherine's room, the VIOLIN STOPS and Carl steps

out into the hall ahead of him. He carries his

fiddle and detains Bobby, with:

Bobby looks past him to Catherine as she glances

out at them and then closes the door to her room.

EXT. DUPEA GROUNDS - DAY

Bobby and Carl, playing a game of table tennis.

Tita stands leaning against a tree, watching them.

In the b.g., Spicer can be seen, meticulously

oiling and cleaning the wheelchair.

As they volley the ball back and forth:

Carl hits into the net, and as the ball rebounds to

him, he tosses it to Bobby.

Carl hits the net again.

Carl serves and as they volley:

Carl tries a smash and mis-hits the ball...

... and as he retrieves it:

Carl comes back to the table.

He angrily serves the ball.

He hits a smash and it sails past Carl into some

shrubbery several yards away.

As he moves after the ball, Bobby gestures at him.

She looks at Carl, bent over and searching through

the shrubs.

She interrupts him, looking toward Spicer.

He looks over at Spicer, polishing the frame of the

wheelchair.

Bobby gestures his paddle at Carl, on his way back

with the ball.

Carl comes up to the table, asserting:

Carl serves and they volley briefly. Then BobbY

angles the ball sharply and puts it away.

Carl takes a quick glance at his watch, then drops

his paddle onto the table.

He starts away, then turns back.

As he moves off in the direction of the cars, Tita

comes up beside Bobby.

Carl calls over to them from his car:

Bobby turns to Tita.

He hands her the paddle...

... and moves off toward the house.

INT. DUPEA HOME - UPSTAIRS HALL - DAY

Bobby knocks on Catherine's door and, hearing no

response, opens it and steps inside.

INT. CATHERINE'S ROOM - DAY

He wanders about, discreetly touching nothing, but

taking in some essence of Catherine from her

belongings and from the scent of her that lingers

in the room.

His journey brings him into proximity with the

windows and he pauses to look out at:

TITA AND SPICER BELOW

playing table tennis.

He starts to move from the windows, when he sees:

CATHERINE'S CAR

pulling into view and parking near the garage. She

gets out, and, carrying a shopping bag and a

wrapped bouquet of flowers, pauses on her way to

the house to have some exchange with Tita.

INT. DUPEA HOME - STAIRCASE - DAY

ON BOBBY

quickly descending the staircase, and FOLLOWING

with him as he moves to the music room and goes

inside, leaving the door open.

INT. MUSIC ROOM - DAY

He crosses to one of the grands, seats himself and

rubs his hands together to warm them. Then,

scanning his mental repertoire, he places his hands

on the keyboard and begins to play a Chopin etude.

Presently, Catherine appears in the doorway. She

stands listening for a moment, then places the

shopping bag and flowers on a settee near the

doorway and crosses to a chair near the pianos and

sits down.

Bobby glances at her, then returns his eyes to the

keyboard.

ON CATHERINE

her features intensely concentrated, as she listens

to his playing.

ON BOBBY

apparently deep into the music. On the wall behind

him are the series of photographs seen in the

opening and the present ANGLE FAVORS an 8-year-old

Bobby in his dress suit, playing a recital.

THE CAMERA MOVES down to his hands...

... then to Catherine, profoundly moved.

ANGLE INCLUDING BOTH

as Bobby plays the concluding chords of the etude.

He lets his hands linger on the keys until the last

overtones fade, then he removes them to his lap.

After a brief silence:

Unable to keep up the "serious" musician pose, a

brief, derisive laugh issues from him.

She gets up and crosses toward the settee.

And as she picks up the flowers and the shopping

bag:

She goes out the door.

Bobby looks down at the keyboard. He closes the

cover and softly utters:

INT. CATHERINE'S BEDROOM - DAY

She stands in front of a dresser mirror, pinning up

her hair, preparatory to taking a bath. Her

attention is drawn to...

... Bobby entering, and as he crosses to her, she

quickly turns back to the mirror.

She moves away from him and he follows her.

She moves back to the dresser and as she begins

searching through an array of bath oils on top of

it, Bobby steps in beside her.

He lifts up one of the bottles.

A little intimidated by his aggressivity:

He makes no move to go.

Needing the safety of distance, she moves over to

the windows next to the bed. Again, he follows

after her.

He takes her by the shoulders...

... and forces her onto the bed.

He hesitates for a moment, full of things he wants

to say and cannot. Catherine looks up at him,

uttering a quiet challenge:

He leans down to her, begins kissing her. Her arms

encircle him and laying back on the bed, she pulls

his body onto hers, fervently returning his kisses.

And as he responds with an ardor absent of fakery

and full of a lifetime of derelict feelings, a FADE

OVER BEGINS, to:

INT. CATHERINE'S BEDROOM - DAY

Catherine and Bobby lie side by side. He watches

her as she addresses the ceiling:

She moves onto her side, looking over at him.

She reaches over, tentatively caressing his face,

then:

He kisses her, gets up and crosses to the door, and

as he opens it:

EXT. LA ROCHE WOODS - DAY

(CHOPIN OVER:)

Bobby and Catherine walk over a path through a

thickly wooded area that presently brings them in

sight of the Dupea house. He stops and, taking hold

of her, leans back against a tree, kissing her.

When they break off and resume walking, she takes

one of his hands in both of hers and, after looking

at the scars and callouses accumulated by his years

of manual labor, she lays the hand against her

cheek.

The ANGLE ALTERS from them, to:

EXT. DUPEA HOUSE - DAY

A taxicab pulls up in front of the house. Rayette

gets out with her suitcase and, after paying the

driver, moves up the steps to the front door and

reaches out to ring the bell.

INT. DUPEA DINING ROOM TABLE - NIGHT

ON RAYETTE

looking down the table to Nicholas.

ON NICHOLAS AND SPICER

the former with his chin resting on his chest.

Bobby doesn't respond.

She takes a bite of food, and as she chews:

ON CARL

fascinated with Rayette, while beside him,

Catherine keeps her eyes on her plate as she eats.

She goes on eating and there is a brief silence

before she resumes, looking over at Catherine:

Carl laughs.

He throws his napkin on the table, gets up and

leaves the room. There is an awkward silence,

followed by Rayette valiantly covering her own

feelings:

INT. FISHERMAN'S BAR - MAINLAND - NIGHT

(TAMMY WYNETTE'S "DON'T TOUCH ME" OVER:)

Bobby finishes the last of several drinks. He ships

a half pint into his jacket pocket, lays some bills

on the bar and moves toward the door.

EXT. FISHERMAN'S BAR - MAINLAND - NIGHT

(WYNETTE OVER:)

Thoroughly anesthetized, he wanders aimlessly

through the harbor-front streets. As he disappears

into the dark, the MUSIC FADES.

EXT. WHARF - MAINLAND - DAWN

ON BOBBY

lying huddled on the boardwalk next to the boat

slips. The crying of the gulls and the sound of

outgoing fishing launches awaken him. Disoriented,

he gets to his feet and, hugging himself against

the cold, moves unsteadily down the dock.

EXT. FERRY - MORNING

Bobby's car pulls off the ferry and approaches a

line of cars waiting to board. He sees Catherine at

the wheel of the first car, and pulling abreast of

her, stops and rolls down his window.

The blocked cars behind each of them begin HONKING

impatiently and CONTINUE TO under the following:

A DRIVER behind Bobby sticks his bead out the

window, yelling furiously at him:

He looks back at her not responding.

She pulls ahead and moves onto the ferry.

INT. DUPEA LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

FAVORING SAMIA GLAVIA

a friend of Carl's. (Somewhere under the following,

the ANGLE ALTERS to include TWO OTHER FRIENDS, as

well as Carl, Catherine, Bobby and Rayette, seated

around the living room, variously captive to her

monologue.)

JOHN FINCHER, a professorial type, attempts to

interject:

Rayette interrupts, calling across the room to

Carl:

Carl starts to answer and is pre-empted by Samia:

ON BOBBY

and his reaction as Samia goes on:

She gets up and starts to move away.

She leaves the room, with Bobby's eyes following

her, and as Carl moves over to sit beside Rayette,

Samia resumes to Fincher while the other friend

moves in beside Bobby and tries to engage him in

conversation.

ON CARL AND RAYETTE

as she indicates Tita's dog, lying near the

fireplace.

She calls across to Bobby, interrupting Samia.

Bobby, now feeling trapped by the other friend,

looks across to her ass she returns her attention

to Carl.

Samia gestures toward Rayette as if she were an

example to prove her point.

Bobby looks over at Samia.

She addresses Fincher gesturing toward Rayette

again.

Bobby stands up, cutting her off:

He turns away and exits the room.

INT. DUPEA HOME - NIGHT

FOLLOWING WITH BOBBY

running up the stairs and down the hall to

Catherine's room. He goes inside and, not finding

her, comes quickly back into the hall. As he moves

down it, opening other doors, he begins calling her

name.

He comes back down the stairs and runs into Rayette

at the bottom landing.

He moves to the music room, to the den, then down

the main hall to the kitchen, which gives off to

two other doors. He opens one of them, to see:

INT. SPICER'S ROOM - NIGHT

Tita and Spicer. Though both are clothed, they are

caught in some stage of intimacy on top of Spicer's

bed. Tita sits up immediately, mortally

embarrassed, as Bobby steps into the room.

Spicer stands up.

Spicer moves to Bobby, taking hold of his arm.

Bobby roughly pushes him away and advances on Tita.

Spicer goes into sudden rage, pushing Bobby

violently toward the door and yelling:

Bobby leaps at him and as their struggle carries

them into the kitchen, Tita begins yelling:

Spicer gets Bobby into a painful headlock and is

being bulled around the kitchen by him.

They crash into the kitchen table, knocking chairs

over.

Bobby rams Spicer into the refrigerator.

He hurls him against the kitchen wall, still

holding him in a headlock as Tita enters the

kitchen.

And as she runs from the room, Spicer begins

violently jerking his forearm up against Bobby's

trachea, punctuating each jerk with the repeated

command:

He feels Bobby's body slacken. He releases him and

Bobby drops to the floor as...

... Carl, Catherine and Tita run into the kitchen,

looking to:

Bobby, gasping for air, tries to get up from the

floor, and unable to, slumps back against the

kitchen wall.

He looks past her, to Catherine.

EXT. BAYFRONT - DAY

Catherine and Bobby sit on a low stone wall

bordering the Dupea property. Each is staring out

at the ocean, and after a moment:

Profoundly wounded, he looks away from her.

Needing to distance herself from witnessing his

pain, she gets up and moves OUT OF FRAME.

His eyes move from her to look out over the bay

and, after a brief silence, he softly utters:

EXT. COUNTRY - DAY

Bobby pushes Nicholas's wheelchair along a path

between fields of tall grasses and wildflowers. He

stops and moves around to the front of the chair.

He leans over to adjust the blanket covering

Nicholas's legs and, hunkering down in front of

him, glances around at the fields, searching for

articulation:

He pauses briefly, then:

He breaks off again, resuming with evident

difficulty.

He searches his father's face, entreating him for

some kind of answer, some sign of response, and

seeing none...

... he breaks down, barely able to utter the

following:

He looks silently at his father for a moment...

... then, bowing bis head:

EXT. DUPEA HOUSE - DAY

Bobby comes out the front door. He carries his

suitcase and, as he descends the steps and moves

across the drive...

... Tita, wearing gloves and holding a pair of

gardening clippers, comes around the side of the

house and calls out to him:

He sets the suitcase down as she comes toward him.

She puts her arms around him and as she embraces

him:

They turn to see:

Rayette, standing near the open trunk of Bobby's

car, taking a Polaroid shot of them.

Bobby returns his attention to Tita, kissing her.

He picks up his suitcase and moves to the trunk,

where Rayette is fussing with her camera. He puts

the suitcase inside, closes the trunk and takes

hold of her arm.

She pulls free of him and, as she moves back toward

Tita, Bobby can be seen getting into the driver's

seat.

She moves back to the car and gets in.

ON TITA

watching as Bobby's car pulls out of the drive and

disappears onto the private road.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

As Bobby's car moves over a highway through the

northern forests, RAYETTE'S VOICE is heard SINGING:

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY

Rayette is seated close to Bobby, looking at him as

she sings.

She leans closer and kisses him, then bringing her

lips close to his ear:

She kisses him again.

And again.

Her kisses become more fervent and insistent.

He suddenly pushes her away.

Grievously hurt by his gesture and expressive of an

anger she's heretofore been afraid to reveal:

She makes a fist of her hand as though she were

about to hit him, then changes her mind.

There is no response. She turns away from him,

looking out through the windshield for a moment,

then:

She looks over at him.

There is no response.

EXT. GAS STATION - DAY

ON BOBBY'S CAR

as it turns off the highway and pulls up into a gas

station next to roadside cafe.

INT. BOBBY'S CAR - DAY

ON RAYETTE

searching through her purse.

He searches into his jacket, takes out his wallet

and hands it to her.

He shakes his head.

She reaches to the door and opens it.

EXT. BOBBY'S CAR - DAY

Bobby gets out of the car as the station attendant

approaches.

Rayette turns back to him as she nears the front of

the cafe.

The attendant moves to the pumps, and as Bobby

crosses toward the men's room and disappears

inside, a Peterbilt semi can be seen pulling into

the station.

INT. GAS STATION - MEN'S ROOM - DAY

Bobby removes his jacket and lays it on top of the

waste container. He moves to the wash basin and

stands a moment, gazing absently down at it, his

mind searching for that inward oblivion in which

nothing much is demanded, nothing much felt.

Then, leaning over and placing his hands on the rim

of the basin...

... he lifts his gaze to the mirror and, after

minutely perusing the features of his face, looks

into his own eyes as he had into his fathers,

silently beseeching them for guidance.

EXT. MEN'S ROOM - GAS STATION - DAY

(SOUND OF SEMI'S MOTOR OVER:)

REMOTE ANGLE as Bobby comes out of the men's room.

He has left his jacket inside and stands for a

moment, looking at the...

... DRIVER, bending down to check the undercarriage

of the semi. As he stands up and circuits the front

of the truck, heading for the cab:

He moves over to him and after a brief exchange,

the driver nods his bead and continues on to the

cab, Bobby moves to the passenger door and climbs

up into the pass seat.

INT. SEMI CAB - GAS STATION - DAY

The driver glances over at Bobby:

The driver puts the truck into gear and releases

the brake.

And as the truck begins to move forward:

EXT. SEMI - GAS STATION - DAY

REMOTE ANGLE:

The semi pulls out of the station onto the highway,

giving view to Bobby's car. The attendant is

cleaning the windshield and Rayette can be seen

opening the passenger door. As she gets out and

surveys the area for some sign of Bobby, the semi

MOVES INTO VIEW, going north on the highway.

Rayette looks over the hood of the car, addressing

the attendant. He gestures toward the men's room

and as she moves across the station and disappears

OFF THE SCREEN...

... the semi recedes in the distance, leaving a

black trail of smoke from its exhaust stack,

dissipating in the air.

