CREDITS SEQUENCE: EXTREME CLOSE-UPS

An unfinished mechanical device: a scaffold of thin metal

pipes, levers, pulleys, wiring, serve-motors.

THOMAS CRAWFORD works on it: in his 40s, well-dressed but in

disarray, graying stubble, hair and clothes unkempt.

Magnifying glasses distort his eyes, making them huge and

strange.

He sets aside a tool, takes a marble-sized ball-bearing and

drops it into a slot at the top of the device.

His enlarged eyes follow the metal ball -

- as it rolls and flips and spirals through a Rube-Goldberg-

style maze, setting off bells, clicking past turnstiles -

- then missing a leap and clattering across the work-table.

Eyes on the device, Crawford's hand traps the ball.

He stays still, analyzing.

He selects a tiny screwdriver from a neat array of metal-

working and electronics tools. Makes a miniscule adjustment

to a single joint. Drops in another ball.

It rolls and flips and spirals all the way down.

Crawford doesn't react.   Just studies the machine.

Behind him, on a desk: a framed photograph of a beautiful

woman in her mid-30s.

His wife.

INT. LUXURY BEACH-HOTEL ROOM - THE SAME TIME

JENNIFER CRAWFORD is just reaching orgasm -

- with ROB NUNALLY: mid-30s, good-looking, aging-boyish.

They clutch each other, shuddering, lost in passion. And

then, breathing heavily, caressing each other - Nunally rolls

off her - slowly coming back to earth.

Jennifer studies her lover, a quiet play of relief and

gratitude and satisfaction on her face -

- darkened by a troubled distance, maybe even fear.

She is, after all, having an affair.

INT. CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

Crawford stares through the grotesque lenses, motionless,

expressionless.

He takes a deep breath and checks his watch.   Then he stands,

removing the glasses.

We now see his office: large, austere. Decor and equipment

related to aircraft engineering. Outside big windows, jets

take off from an industrial airstrip.

Crawford gets a brand-new bottle of Jack Daniels from a desk

drawer, uncaps it and swigs as he opens the door to a private

bathroom.

He gargles, spits into the sink. He pours out more, then

puts the half-empty bottle back on his desk.

He collects a home-made device from the workbench: it looks

like a PDA connected by wires to a blank credit card.

He puts it in the pocket of his suit jacket, which he sets on

the desk. Adjusts the placement of the open bottle, nearby.

Crawford goes to a light-box, studying a set of large X-rays:

dark strips of welding in a grayish fuzz of metal.

TINA, his assistant, appears in the doorway.

She hesitates a second, glancing at the bottle.

Crawford ignores her, pulling an x-ray off the light-box and

grabbing his jacket -

- which knocks over the bottle.   It skitters across the desk,

liquor spilling.

Crawford just walks out past Tina.

INT. AIRPLANE HANGER - SOON AFTER

The twisted, torn and burned wreckage of a large private jet

is being reassembled on the big empty concrete floor.

N.T.S.B. INVESTIGATORS in shirtsleeves and AIRCRAFT COMPANY

EXECUTIVES in suits cluster around work-boards covered with

photographs and diagrams of a crash site.

They look up, falling silent, as Crawford comes in carrying

the X-ray. A few exchange surprised, concerned glances; this

is not a man who skips a shave.

But when he gets to them, Crawford is laser-like - holding

the X-ray and pointing to a spot three inches above it:

He hands a startled Investigator the film and strides off

toward the giant open doors out to the airfield.

His foot knocks a piece of the carefully-laid-out wreckage in

passing; it clatters across the concrete, but Crawford

doesn't slow or look back.

INT. LUXURY BEACH-HOTEL ROOM - SOON AFTER

Rob is still in the bed, naked under the sheet - watching

Jennifer adjust the straps of her bathing suit.

She looks at him, surprised.    Smiles, comes to sit beside

him. Gently:

Beat.   Rob nods.

He gropes for words, but it's too big and he relents - scales

back, sighing:

She regards him tenderly, feeling the same reckless yearning.

But also fear. She rubs his hair.

She leans over to kiss him delicately on the lips.

EXT. SANTA MONICA STREET - DAY

A black Porsche speeds down a quiet street near the beach,

pulls into a parking space.

Crawford gets out, goes to a pay phone. He puts his cell

phone on top of it, drops in some change and dials.

He listens to hold music and checks the time.

He hangs up, grabs his cell, and takes off down the sidewalk.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Crawford enters. He knows where he's going - past the front

desk and outside to the -

EXT. HOTEL POOL - DAY

Jennifer swims laps with strong, even strokes.   Rob is

enjoying the sun in a lounge chair.

Crawford eyes them as he passes on the other side of a low

fence. Unnoticed, he heads upstairs.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY

Crawford stops at a room with a DO NOT DISTURB sign on the

knob. He takes out his PDA-device and slides its card into

the key-card slot of the lock.

The lock clicks to green.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Crawford enters, quietly closing the door behind him.

He just stands there, taking it all in. The unmade bed, the

ripped-open condom packet, the clothes on the floor.

He is silent.   Very still.

EXT. CRAWFORD'S STREET - LATER

Jennifer drives her Mercedes convertible past expensive

houses in the late-afternoon light.

She goes up the driveway of the Crawfords' stark mordern home.

Across the street, MR. GIFFORD is playing catch with his

GRANDSON. He waves to Jennifer.

She waves back, friendly but distracted, on her way to the

front door.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Cold. Elegant. Metal planters with bamboo trees. Glass

doors out to a back garden. A fire in the fireplace.

In a corner is another of Crawford's Rube Goldbergs - this

one the size of a refrigerator. On a coffee table in the

center of the room, a big wooden bowl of ball-bearings.

Jennifer hurries in, dropping her keys on a table and -

- freezes, startled.

Crawford waits in the center of the room; despite the outer

"disarray", he is calm and focused.

Crawford shrugs, smiling strangely.   He looks pained.

Jennifer submits guiltily.   Crawford embraces her, tight.

She waits it out, until:

He lets go and she steps back.   Studying him.   Scared.

Silence.

He shakes his head.     Frayed and worn, she sighs.

He watches her turn and head for the kitchen.          To her back:

She stops, exhales.    Looking down.   Afraid.    Grateful it's

happening at last.

Jennifer winces, feeling some sympathy.     Preparing herself to

turn and end it, to grow, to move on.

She frowns and turns - and her eyes go big with fear.

Crawford is holding a semi-automatic pistol, aimed at her

face. Very still.

The gunshot explodes out of the muzzle - bright, harsh, loud.

EXT. GIFFORD HOUSE - FRONT YARD - CONTINUOUS

Gifford and his Grandson turn to look at the Crawford house.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Crawford stands, tilting his head to watch the slow hypnotic

curl of smoke leaking from the gun in his extended hand. The

hand, we might notice now, wears a surgical glove.

He lowers the gun, bends to pick up the ejected shell-casing

from the floor. He wipes it and tosses it aside, on his way

to Jennifer.

He stands looking down at her: face-up on the floor, head in

a small pool of blood, eyes and mouth open.

The doorbell rings.

EXT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Gifford leans on the frosted-glass panel next to the door -

hands cupped around his eyes, trying to see in.

INT. CRAWFORD FOYER - CONTINUOUS

Crawford steps in from the living room.

He calmly aims up at the frosted-glass transom and fires

three times - watching Gifford fling himself away.

Crawford collects the shell casings, wipes them, drops them

back on the floor.

Peeling off the rubber gloves, he crosses to the fireplace

and throws them into the flames. They curl and blacken.

Crawford watches, expressionless - then looks around,

satisfied. Waiting.

EXT. CRAWFORD'S STREET - DUSK

Helicopters overhead, SWAT teams setting up. Nearby houses

have been emptied, gawking NEIGHBORS and media vans moved

back to a block away.

UNIFORM COPS pull aside the barriers as a plain-wrap sedan

rolls through. It pulls up by the SWAT Command Truck.

ROB NUNALLY gets out, surveying the scene. The guy who spent

his afternoon with Jennifer Crawford in the hotel is an

L.A.P.D. Detective.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - SOON AFTER

Crawford waits, with the gun.    The phone rings.   He picks up:

EXT. CRAWFORD'S STREET - CONTINUOUS

Nunally is standing by the open trunk of his sedan, wearing a

Kevlar vest now - putting on his shoulder-holster over it.

Into his cell-phone:

Crawford hangs up.   Thoughtful.

Nunally grimaces, shuts his phone, shaking his head. But

then he turns - with the SWAT Commander and everyone else -

- as Crawford's front door unlocks and opens a few inches.

Nunally considers this, looks at the SWAT COMMANDER.

He pulls his suit jacket back on, then reaches into the trunk

for his back-up gun. He tucks it into the back of his belt,

concealed under the jacket.

He takes a walkie-talkie and starts for the house.

The spectators fall silent.    Radios crackle and hiss as he

heads up the driveway.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Crawford watches Nunally's silhouette appear on the frosted

glass, from across the living room.

The door pushes open very slowly.     Nunally stays in the

doorway.

Crawford studies him, staying back.

Nunally is confused; Crawford gestures at the flood-lit lawn

outside. Nunally glances back, sees the SWAT teams and -

down the street - the distant barricades, the media.

He nods, steps in and lets the door shut.     Careful silence.

Nunally nods, humoring him, glancing around. Sees the small

pool of blood where Jennifer fell. Plays it cool.

Crawford sighs.

Nunally frowns, wary.

Crawford moves to the coffee table in the center of the room,

holds his gun out over it.

Crawford gestures to a chair across the room - by the foyer

door, near Nunally.

Nunally studies Crawford...and the gun, hovering above the

coffee table. Looking for a trick, a catch. But there isn't

one. If Crawford sets down his gun and steps away, he'll be

standing in the open center of the room.

Nunally stares Crawford in the eyes -

- then slowly takes his gun from his shoulder holster.

Eyes on each other from across the room - moving very slowly -

the two men cautiously set down their guns -

- and step away.   Crawford smiles.

Nunally smiles, too, reassuring and false. Begins to edge

forward - alert to the possibility of a lunge for the gun or

having another weapon. But Crawford stays absolutely still.

Crawford gestures to a library alcove, behind him, out of

view.

Nunally begins to drift slowly to the side, to see.

Nunally's nodding, edging to look into the alcove -

But Nunally is not. He's frozen - staring, shocked, at the

back wall of the alcove - which he can now see.

There's a big framed black-white photograph: a portrait of

Jennifer Crawford.

Nunally fumbles for his walkie-talkie, rushing past Crawford

toward the alcove -

- kneeling by Jennifer, who lies, face-up in a red puddle -

Nunally feels her neck frantically for a pulse - looking in

her open, vacant eyes for some sign -

Nunally desperately starts C.P.R., his hands getting bloody.

He stops to check her neck for a pulse now and then -

- as Crawford slowly approaches from the living room,

standing behind Nunally. Cold.

Nunally turns and lunges up, smashing a fist into Crawford's

face. Crawford reels backward with Nunally -

- the two of them falling with Nunally on top, beating

Crawford furiously, cursing -

- as SWAT COPS burst in, grabbing Nunally, dragging him back -

knocking into PARAMEDICS trying to get to Jennifer -

- Nunally kicking, flailing, spitting at Crawford - who's put

face-down on the floor, to get cuffed.

Nunally pulls free from the SWAT cops, distraught, angry -

going to retrieve his gun and shove it in his shoulder-

holster, struggling to regain control.

Nunally whirls - everyone freezing, breathless, falling

silent.

The Paramedics kneeling around Jennifer work -

- as Crawford lies on the floor, staring at his wife. Like

she's a machine that defied astronomical odds and refused to

behave according to his calculations.

EXT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - SOON AFTER

Jennifer's stretcher is loaded into an ambulance, doors

slamming shut and sirens kicking on -

- as Crawford, cuffed behind his back, is pushed into the

back seat of a police car. His eyes on the ambulance as it

pulls away, carrying his wife.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - SOON AFTER

A DETECTIVE uses a pencil to lift Crawford's gun from the

coffee table and carefully put it in an evidence bag.

Nunally stands back, watching the COPS and TECHNICIANS work

the scene - lost in his thoughts, shaken.

Nunally "wakes" - nods.   Absently:

To avoid talking more, he heads out to the glaring lights and

chaos outside.

INT. WILLY'S APARTMENT - THE NEXT MORNING

The alarm clock shifts to 6:00 am and pops on to local news

and traffic -

- but the narrow futon bed is already empty.

WILLY SLOCUM works at a laptop on his second-hand desk, lit

by a solitary lamp.

He is in his late-20s, good-looking. Short hair, office-pale

but athletic, wearing mis-matched sweats from Eastern

Oklahoma State College.

He jots a final note, sets his yellow legal pad aside. As he

goes to the closet-sized bathroom, pulling off his sweatshirt

and starting the tiny pre-fab shower, we linger on the laptop

screen: rental listings for a new apartment.

TIME CUT

The bare overhead bulb is on, revealing the concrete floor

and painted-plywood walls. His clothes hang neatly on a

length of pipe suspended by ropes from the exposed rafters.

Law school texts fill cinderblock-and-board shelves.

The radio chatters.    Willy knots a tie in his crisp white

collar.

TIME CUT

Willy methodically packs legal folders from last night's

"homework" into his big, battered briefcase. He has to work

to stuff all the files in.

He pulls on his suit jacket, settles the shoulders, tugs at

his cuffs. Uncaps a pen, leans over a one-sentence letter

waiting on the desk. Reads it over.

As he signs, we glimpse:

Willy savors the moment.

Then he tucks the letter into an envelope, gets the heavy

briefcase - goes to shut off the light and open the door -

- which swings about six inches, then clonks into something.

Willy grimaces.   Peeks out, goes to pound on a wall.

Silence. He sighs.    Shuts the door and presses a button near

the light-switch.

There's mechanical grinding noise as the far wall slowly

rolls up, letting in daylight and revealing an alley beyond

the hanging clothes and cinderblock shelves.

He presses the garage-door-opener button again, and hurries

across the apartment to duck out under the closing door.

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Willy straightens and takes a breath, re-settling his suit

jacket with an irritable glance at his landlady's car, parked

sloppily next to the garage, blocking his door.

As he walks away, down the alley, we rise up to reveal the

hazy sprawling landscape of L.A. - and the towers of

Downtown, rising ahead of Willy like Oz.

INT. WILLY'S OFFICE - LATER THAT MORNING

An ancient fluorescent-lit cubby crammed with documents, case

files, notes, reference books. Willy on the phone:

His cell phone rings.   As he gets it:

Assistant District Attorney NORMAN CHANG (mid-30s) throws the

door open without looking:

Willy holds up a finger, talking into his cell:

Norman mouths "WOOTON SIMS?!" repeatedly during:

He hangs up, exhales slowly.    Looks at Norman.

As Willy gets up and goes out, past Norman -

INT. DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Norman follows Willy out to a central bullpen area where the

shared ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANTS work: MONA and GLADYS.

Mona nods, taking notes as Willy gets out a credit card.

Other DDAs are gathering to soak up some vicarious kicks.

Willy hesitates, in over his head.   A DDA helpfully does the

Travolta finger-in-the-air pose.

Her tone makes him - and everyone else - turn.

Willy, startled, looks around. Approving nods, raised

eyebrows. He tightens his tie and heads for the elevators.

INT. LOBRUTO'S OFFICE - SOON AFTER

District Attorney JOE LOBRUTO, 50-ish, sits behind a massive

oak desk, studying a thick file. Doesn't look up as a

SECRETARY shows Willy in.

Willy hesitates. Looks around: he's never been here. Flags,

wood panelling, leather furniture, windows overlooking the

city. Finally Lobruto looks up, takes Willy in.

Willy considers his options.   He always does.

Lobruto knew this; the question was would Willy admit it.

Beat. Willy doesn't like the implied personal judgement, but

the only way it shows is how calm he stays.

Lobruto nods, unruffled by Willy's hard calm.

Willy's amused.    He stands, too.   As they shake hands:

Willy nods - but Lobruto notes the tiny flicker in his eyes:

not getting it and trying to cover. Lobruto smiles gently.

INT. WILLY'S OFFICE - LATER

Willy's twisting in his rented tux, trying to adjust a buckle

on the side of the vest.

The phone rings and he gives up, frustrated - pushing the

plastic garment-bag aside to answer -

- knocking a full cup of take-out coffee on to his chair.

Which is where he left his suit.

Willy freezes. Watching the coffee seep into the fabric.

Into the phone, distracted:

INT. NORMAN'S OFFICE - THE SAME TIME

Norman's looking at a case file.

Willy sighs.     Looking down at his coffee-soaked suit.

INT. NORMAN'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Norman slowly smiles, listening.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

Willy slips self-consciously through the double-doors,

wearing the tuxedo.

He gets even more self-conscious when he notices a handful of

local REPORTERS. He hurries in -

- passing Nunally, in the back row. Nunally is making a good

show of keeping it together...but it's only a show.

JUDGE IRENE FELDMAN, 50-ish, looks over her half-glasses.

Willy, hurrying to Prosecution Table, barely glances at the

Defense Table -

- but Crawford, sitting beside his PUBLIC DEFENDER in an

orange jumpsuit and handcuffs, never takes his eyes off

Willy, intrigued.

The Defense rises; Crawford hardly pays any attention to the

Judge - glancing back and noticing Nunally, whose eyes bore

into him, haunted and burning.

Crawford stares at him impassively a second, then turns to

lean past his P.D. and watch Willy hastily skim the file.

Willy looks up from the file - startled.

The P.D. shuts up, taken aback. The Judge considers

Crawford, thoughtful, then turns to Willy.

Willy hesitates, held by Crawford's strange, amused gaze.

Shakes it off:

Crawford reaches up with cuffed hands and adjusts an

imaginary bow-tie. Willy self-consciously touches where

Crawford indicated on his own collar, straightens his clip-

on.

Crawford nods: you're welcome.    Willy turns to the Judge.

Beat.

Willy hesitates, irritated. Looks through the file again.

Checks Crawford - waiting, polite.

Crawford smiles at him, as the Judge opens her calendar.

INT. PARKING STRUCTURE - LATER

Willy, in his tux, comes out of a staircase and stops.   Rob

Nunally is waiting by Willy's parked car.

Willy takes him in - wary, seeing an edge of anger and fear

beneath the tough controlled cop manner.

Nunally is silent - frustrated. The concrete walls and

ceilings echo from distant cars.

He struggles to keep himself under control.

Willy waits.    Watching the tortured cop wrestle with demons.

Willy nods.    Nunally turns and walks away, down a ramp.

Willy watches him go. Sad. Like he's watching Nunally

drown. But he's seen people drown before...and he's not

about to put out a hand. Might get pulled in himself.

INT. CHANDLER PAVILION - LOBBY - LATER

Willy moves uneasily among clusters of laughing, chatting,

sparkling FORMAL-DRESSED PEOPLE.

NIKKI GARDNER joins him, strolling alongside. She's his age,

but her elegant dress, unlike his tux, was made for her.

Willy stops walking, getting a little careful.

She puts a hand out, gently amused.

Nikki nods, considering this.      And him.

They're each conscious of an unexpected buzz of attraction.

The lobby lights flicker, breaking the spell a little. As

the CROWD begins to drift toward the auditorium doors:

With a conspiratorial head-tip, Nikki moves toward the plaza

doors. Willy follows.

EXT. ARTS CENTER - SOON AFTER

They stroll the emptying plaza, dressed to the nines.

Beat. Willy nods, meeting Nikki's gaze as she looks to make

sure he's got it.

She stops walking.   Studying Willy.

Willy doesn't answer. Maybe uncertain what she means. Maybe

not wanting her to know. Or even not knowing, himself.

Willy weighs his options.    Decides to level:

Beat.

His cell-phone rings.    He ignores it.

They are both feeling the electricity in the air between them.

They wait the phone out, enjoying the forbidden insanity of

it. But then:

She studies Willy, trying to make sure he understands:

Beat.

Nikki sighs, smiles.    Enjoying him, somewhat reluctantly.

He watches her head off into the night. He remains, alone,

in his tuxedo, looking at the elegant glittering arts plaza.

Then he checks his cell-phone.     Dials.

INT. FORENSICS LAB - LATER

MARCHAND, Senior S.I.D. (Scene Investigation Division) Tech,

works as he talks into a speaker-phone. He and Willy have

teamed-up often, and an underlying respect lets them mock

each other.

Beat.   Willy shakes the puzzle off, irritated:

He shuts the phone. Takes a moment, looking around again at

where he is. Absently tugs at his tie and vest, lets the

case go. Heads in to the opera.

INT. WILLY'S OFFICE - A WEEK LATER

Controlled chaos. A week's work has emptied the shelves and

cleared the surfaces, but the file-cabinet drawers are all

half-open: Willy sorts folders, neatly marking and packing

them. White "trans-file" storage boxes are piled all over.

Willy looks up, at a MESSENGER with another file box.

Willy sourly gestures to a chair; checks the label as the

Messenger sets it down -

Messenger holds out a clipboard. Willy reluctantly signs.

As the Messenger leaves, Willy cuts the tape and takes out a

folder. Opens it:

Crawford has scrawled NO in red marker across the top sheet.

Willy turns to the next page.     A big red NO across that, too.

Pulls out more documents - flips through: NO - NO - NO - NO -

red letters wriggling across the typed pages, like flip-book

animation.

Beat.   Disturbed, he picks up the phone, dials.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - THE SAME TIME

S.I.D. TECHS are taking the place apart: opening HVAC vents,

pulling books off shelves, upending chairs and tables,

removing drawers from cabinets.

Marchand, supervising, answers his cell-phone:

He takes a second.   Sighs, exasperated - but honest:

Willy takes a breath.   Thinks it through.

Marchand snaps his phone shut.

Willy smiles, hangs up. But then his smile fades, as he

glances down again at Crawford's box of papers.

Hundreds of pages.   Every single one scrawled NO.

Willy considers them.

INT. COUNTY JAIL - INTERROGATION ROOM - LATER

Metal chairs. Bad light. Crawford sits, cuffed, at a table,

waiting. Looks up as the door unlocks.

A GUARD lets Willy in, locks the door behind him.

Crawford watches Willy take a legal pad, files, pens from his

briefcase, set them on the table.

Willy, now ready, lets Crawford study him.

Beat.

Willy tries to stay in control.

Beat. Willy reconstructs his formal cool. Takes some pages

scrawled NO from a folder, pushes them across the table.

Beat.

Crawford nods.    Pleased.    Leans forward.

Willy studies him. Decides: it's an elaborate act.   Begins

to put away his papers.

Willy looks at him, slightly taken aback.   He didn't know; it

wasn't in the confession.

As he considers whether it makes a difference - he notices

Crawford watching, enjoying. Willy shuts his briefcase.

Willy smiles, gets up.

Crawford watches him go to the door.

Willy stops, annoyed.

Crawford considers how to put it.

Silence.   Willy pushes the call-button by the door.

The door unlocks.   Crawford winks.

Willy hesitates for a second - then leaves.

INT. WOOTON, SIMS - EMPTY OFFICE - LATER

It's big. It's got a window. It's got a sofa. Undecorated,

except for a pile of materials & boxes marked ARMSTEAD

PHARMACEUTICAL.

Willy is filling out forms - tax, citizenship, benefits.   He

doesn't notice Nikki when she comes to the door.

He looks up, smiles.

Beat.   Not pleased:

Nikki nods.   Willy is silent.     She frowns.

Willy leans in, enjoying this part - analyzing, even

admiring, Crawford's ploy:

Beat.   Nikki considers Willy.

He studies her, confident.    Gestures to the stacks of

Armstead materials:

Nikki sighs, smiles a little, against her will.      He's won her

over...again.

Willy shrugs, grins.    In the silence, the impossible

electricity returns.    After a moment - to defuse it:

Slight beat.

She studies him a moment, thoughtful.    Careful.

She nods. Smiling a little, knowing her family and starting

to know Willy:

Beat.

Beat.   She leaves.    Willy doesn't go back to work right away.

INT. COURTROOM - THE NEXT DAY

JUDGE ROBINSON presiding. A mid-sized crowd, including a few

REPORTERS. A UNIFORM COP is in the witness box, Willy stands

in the Prosecution Table.

Crawford sits alone at the Defense Table. He wears an

expensive suit and no handcuffs, but two DEPUTIES sit behind

him. He's barely listening to the testimony - drawing on his

legal pad: intricate, dense complex diagrams of "Rube

Goldberg" contraptions.

Crawford noisily tears a page off his pad.     Looks up - sees

Willy, and everyone else, turned to him.

Willy sighs, returns to the Cop.

Crawford looks up from his drawing.

Crawford takes in the Uniform Cop.

Willy watches Crawford return diligently to his doodles.

CLOSE-UP: THE DEFENSE TABLE - LATER THAT AFTERNOON

It's a mess of loose legal-pad pages torn from Crawford's

pad, each covered in madly intricate schematics. He works on

yet another, head down, intent.

Dr. MARION KANG is on the stand, using a marker on a big

diagram of a head:

Willy nods, allowing the jury time on this. He checks a note-

card, glances at Crawford. Considers his options.

Judge Robinson gives Willy a warning look.

Crawford doesn't even look up from his drawing.

Willy gives Judge Robinson an I-told-you-so shrug.     Turns to

Dr. Kang.

Crawford tears off the page, starts another.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

Nunally on the stand.    Focused, professional.   Crawford

draws, ignoring him.

Nunally looks at Crawford, enjoying the fatal blow:

Everyone turns, surprised.

Crawford sets aside his pen for the first time.   Looks up.

Uproar in the court.

Utter silence. Willy whirls a look at Nunally.     The cop

meets his eyes - a deer in headlights.

Nunally looks down, silent.    Shaking his head.

Nunally suddenly launches himself over the witness box rail

to attack Crawford - as the Deputies leap forward to stop him -

all of them flailing and cursing in a tangle -

- spectators screaming, fleeing, gawking.   Chaos.

INT. JUDGE ROBINSON'S CHAMBERS - SOON AFTER

The Judge grim, Willy panicked, Crawford calm.

The Judge and Willy look at Crawford like he's truly insane.

The Judge looks at Willy.    This is bad.    Thinking fast:

Willy stares at Crawford, shaken.    Understanding the trap.

Crawford raises his eyebrows. Awkward silence.         Willy takes

a deep breath. Turns to the Judge.

Willy just stands there: blind-sided, shell-shocked.

Crawford smiles at him.

INT. WILLY'S OFFICE - THAT EVENING

The end of a bad, bad day.   Willy flips on the lights as he

comes in, shaken.

A package is on the empty desk. Addressed in red marker.

The return address: TC, County Jail.

Willy just stands looking at it.

INT. COUNTY JAIL - THE SAME TIME

Crawford sits on the metal bunk in his prison jumpsuit.

Alone. Looking down.

INT. WILLY'S OFFICE - RESUME

As Willy takes a letter-opener from the desk drawer - the

phone rings. He answers it, eyes still on the package:

INT. GLAMOROUS BAR - THE SAME TIME

Crowded with UPSCALE YOUNG PROFESSIONALS.    Nikki is on her

cell-phone, hand over her other ear:

Willy begins cutting open the package as he talks:

INT. COUNTY JAIL - CONTINUOUS

Crawford very slowly raises his eyes, until he is looking

directly at us.

INT. WILLY'S OFFICE/GLAMOROUS BAR - RESUME

Willy cautiously lifts the box's flaps - pulls aside tissue

paper - to reveal:

A single eggshell.   Broken, empty.

INT. COUNTY JAIL - CONTINUOUS

Crawford begins to smile.

INT. WILLY'S OFFICE/GLAMOROUS BAR - RESUME

Willy is staring down at the broken eggshell, barely

listening to Nikki.

Willy can't take his eyes off Crawford's "gift."

INT. COUNTY JAIL - CONTINUOUS

Crawford stares right at us.       Smiling.   Ice cold.

INT. WILLY'S OFFICE/GLAMOROUS BAR - RESUME

Nikki is sympathetic, misunderstanding Willy's quiet:

He hangs up.    Considering the empty eggshell.       But then he

looks up:

District Attorney Lobruto is in his office doorway, trying to

decide whether to be angry.

Willy burns, ashamed.       But unable to admit it.

Silence.

Beat.

Silence.

Lobruto grimaces.     He shakes his head.    Sighs.

Willy nods.   Stubborn.    Scared.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Local news on the TV: Willy pushing past media outside the

courthouse; official photo of Nunally; footage from the

standoff at Crawford's.

The sound is low, and Nunally isn't watching. He's sitting

on the edge of the bed...looking down at his gun, in his

hands.

A knock on the door "wakes" him. Beat. He sets the gun

aside, goes to peek out the curtains. Lets Willy in.

He uncomfortably watches Willy glance around at the half-

empty liquor bottle, the mismatched suitcases and paper bags

full of balled-up clothes. And the gun on the bed.

He falters, haunted by the echo.      Willy doesn't notice:

Willy waits.    Nunally explains, reluctant to expose himself:

Nunally won't look at Willy.      He just sits there, numb.

Nunally shakes his head.      Willy grimaces.   Goes to the door.

Willy stops.    Looks back.

Nunally winces. Takes it. Willy feels a little badly.         Two

guys in a shabby motel room, in terrible trouble.

Willy shakes his head.     Walks out.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - THE NEXT DAY

A massive search is under way.

Marchand's S.I.D. Team has been doubled, back-up by a dozen

SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES -

- passing hand-held metal detectors along the furniture -

- taking pictures down from the walls -

- turning over mattresses - patting-down every item hanging

in the closets -

- wriggling into crawlspaces - poking into light fixtures

recessed into the ceilings -

- opening the air-conditioning unit, up on the roof -

- ripping out Crawford's high-end home-theater system -

- taking apart the Porsche in the garage.

Willy paces the edges of the action, restless, edgy.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - KITCHEN - LATER

Willy stops in the doorway - watching a DEPUTY shut the

stainless-steel freezer, open a wired-glass cabinet and poke

around.

The Deputy stares like he's nuts. Willy doesn't blink.    The

Deputy goes to shake the boxes, eyes on Willy: okay?

Willy nods.   Moves on.

EXT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - FRONT DOOR - LATER

Hours have passed.

Willy steps out of the front door, because he's going stir-

crazy inside. Stands watching two TECHS walk the lawn and

flower-beds with metal detectors.

He notices, past the S.I.D. vans and Sheriff's Dept. black-

and-whites parked in the driveway:

Nunally, in his parked car, across the street.

He meets Willy's eyes.    Worried.

Willy can't give him any news. So he pretends he didn't see

the question in Nunally's eyes, looks away. Takes a breath,

turns and goes back in to work.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DUSK

It's getting dark out. Techs pack equipment cases, carry

them out. The place is a disaster area.

Marchand watches Willy pace the living room.

Willy shakes his head, grim.    Pacing.

He slows. Looking across the room at the big Rube Goldberg

device. As he moves toward it:

He examines the intricate workings, eyes travelling the

clutter of metal and wires and motors.

Checks Marchand - who shakes his head.

Willy grimaces.   Fuming, relentless:

He begins walking through the crime, "the stations of the

cross" - re-enacting it, starting from the front door,

methodical, reciting it to himself:

Willy stands where Crawford was.     Raises a finger-gun.

As Willy goes to where Jennifer fell:

Willy walks along the path defined by the drops of blood:

Willy stops in the alcove, looking down at the dried blood,

the discarded paramedic-supply-wrappers.

Willy nods, comes out - crosses to the foyer:

And that's it. He stands there with the imaginary gun in his

hand. Looking around. Trying to think like Crawford.

He can't.

Willy won't respond - because accepting the apology means

admitting he's got nothing left.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LATER

It's night. The house is empty. Except for Willy, turning

on lights as he gets to each room, turning them off as he

leaves.

Studying framed photos: Jennifer - now and then with Crawford -

in Italy, Bermuda, Colorado. Always a bit posed and formal

when they're together.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - BATHROOM - SOON AFTER

Checking the contents of the medicine cabinet.

No longer really looking for the gun.   He's looking for

insight. Contact. A way in.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - DRESSING ROOM - SOON AFTER

Willy wanders through Jennifer's spacious dressing room.

He idly surveys the vanity, cluttered with cosmetics, skin-

care products. Lifts her perfume, sniffs.

Notices a storage box on the floor, left partly-open in the

search. He shifts the lid aside.

A high-school yearbook. An old photo album. A teddy bear.

A snow-globe. A well-worn book by Dr. Seuss.

Willy stares down at the souvenirs of a lost life.

INT. HOSPITAL - I.C.U. - NIGHT

The room is dim, and silent except for the hiss-click of the

respirator, the monotonous beep of the heart monitor.

Jennifer Crawford lies with her head wrapped in gauze, eyes

shut, plastic tubing down her throat held in place with tape.

Willy sits beside her bed, reading Dr. Seuss:

He stops reading a moment.   Watching her:

Willy turns. A work-weary RESIDENT comes past him to check

the I.V.'s and monitors. He's about Willy's age.

The RESIDENT looks up at Willy - who shrugs, uncomfortable.

Beat.   The Resident sighs.

Beat.

Willy watches the Resident go out. Then he looks back down

at Jennifer. Listening to the machines.

INT. CRAWFORD OFFICE - THE NEXT DAY

Willy wanders.   Tina, the assistant, waits in the doorway.

He's trying to conceal the fact that he's on a fishing

expedition.

Browses a wall of framed photos: Crawford at crash sites,

universities, engineering test-labs - awards, certificates,

articles from industry publications lauding Crawford as the

Go-To-Guy for investigating mechanical failures of aircraft.

He stands over unfinished Rube Goldberg device.   Tools laid

out on the work table - meticulous, organized.

It's not evidence.

Willy turns, a little rattled.    Beat.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

The room where Jennifer and Nunally met. Cleaned-up now,

anonymous, empty. Willy stands looking at it.

There's nothing to see. He grimaces, nods - heads out, past

the ASSISTANT MANAGER waiting in the doorway.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

As Willy comes out of the room - he slows, noticing the

little gray plastic surveillance-camera-ball in the ceiling.

Willy considers it.     He's got nothing else to try.

Beat.   Seeing Willy's confusion:

Willy nods, trying to pretend he hasn't forgotten:

INT. GARDNER HOUSE - DINING ROOM - LATER

A faux-Tudor Hancock Park dining room.   Wealthy, but lived

in.

JUDGE LEWIS GARDNER, your basic Henry Fonda/Jimmy Stewart-

type patriarch, carves a turkey at the head of a long table,

wearing a worn and gravy-splattered apron. Platters

circulate in both directions among Nikki's older siblings

(BURTON and SANDRA), their spouses, their children.

Willy sits next to Nikki, who is high-stylish despite the

fact that she's dressed "casual."

While Gardner piles turkey on a plate and passes it:

Nikki gives Willy a did-I-tell-you? look.

Beat.   Willy remains polite, but won't back down.

Willy considers his options.

Awkward silence.

Beat.   Willy looks down, begins to eat again.

The click of silverware.

Beat.   Willy looks up at Burton, steady.     Shrugs.

Willy nods.   Beat.     To Nikki, uncomfortable:

Nikki looks at Willy.

Silence.   Nikki is staring at him.    Angry.

Willy doesn't know how to handle this; everyone else tries to

be polite, eating and pretending not to notice.

Nikki stops. Refusing to look around.     Ashamed at losing

control, turns back to her food:

Everyone eats in silence a moment - then Nikki tosses down

her napkin:

She gets up and walks out of the room. With an awkward

glance around, Willy excuses himself and follows her.

EXT. GARDNER HOUSE - FOYER - CONTINUOUS

Willy has no answer. He doesn't think that way. And she

sees that. She sees a young man from Oklahoma, in way over

his head. Desperate to get through:

Silence.   Shaken:

Painful silence.

Nikki watches him dealing with it, sympathetic. The

impossible feelings always running under the surface for them

have developed a darker, aching tone. If anything, stronger.

He nods. Neither one moves. Judge Gardner enters cautiously

from the dining room - breaking the spell.

Nikki nods goodbye to Willy, and goes out quickly without

meeting her father's eye. Awkward pause.

Gardner nods respectfully, but doesn't move quite yet.

Studying the torn-up young man.

Willy looks at the kindly old judge, a little surprised.

Gardner shrugs: my two cents.      He goes to a side-table, finds

the Yellow Pages.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Empty.   Dark.   Willy lets himself in.

He looks for the light-switch - finds only a complex

computerized dimmer-panel. He tries it.

Accent lights come on, buried in the living room planters.

He can't get any other pre-sets to work.

The crime scene is creepy, lit like that. The dried blood is

black. Shadows stretch up the walls, strange.

Willy grimaces, moves through it - sees another panel by the

French doors to the garden. Goes over -

- and jumps back, startled -

- by Nunally, on the other side of the glass.

Catching his breath, Willy stares. He unlocks the French

doors and Nunally steps in, uneasy, haggard.

Nunally looks around - taking a pint bottle from his overcoat

pocket, uncapping it.

He drinks, then offers the bottle.     Willy hesitates, takes

it. As he drinks:

Willy winces at the liquor and the remark, hands back the

bottle.

Nunally tosses something from an inside pocket of the coat -

- Willy catches it.       A Heckler & Koch nine-millimeter in a

plastic bag.

Willy stares down at it. Then at Nunally, who holds up: a

bullet, deformed by impact.

Beat.

Willy sighs.    Tosses the gun back.

Beat.

Willy watches Nunally stalk out through the big, strangely-

lit room. The front door opens, and slams.

A little worried, Willy takes a deep breath.       Gets to work.

He still has three days to break this open.

Walking through the crime again.

Playing it out in his mind. Standing in different places,

getting different perspectives.

Willy stands in the alcove.    Looking around.

There's something here.     But he can't get it.

His eye falls on the Rube Goldberg device.       Moves closer,

peering into the mechanism.

Turns away: no gun. But now he's facing the big wooden bowl

of ball-bearings, sitting out in the middle of the room on

the coffee table.

Hide in plain sight.

He walks over - pushes his fingers in, feels around.

Nope. He sighs. Takes a ball-bearing, rolls it in his hand.

Goes to the device - drops the ball in the slot.

The machine is amazing. The ball rolls and leaps and

clatters - lights flash, elevators rise and fall, at one

point the ball lifts on a jet of compressed air - then it

spirals out of sight and reappears somewhere unexpected -

- until at the end the ball suddenly catapults out and sails

across the living room -

- to land neatly back in the bowl on the coffee table.

Willy grimaces.   This guy is really good.

INT. MARCHAND'S OFFICE - S.I.D. - SUNDAY AFTERNOON

A mess of courtroom exhibits, copies of evidence, lists,

depositions, photos, diagrams, take-out food containers and

coffee cups.

Marchand surveys it.    The bleary end of a long day - sifting

clues, dead-ends.

Willy has barely slept all weekend. He shakes his head,

reviewing the hotel surveillance tapes on a VCR/TV, stubborn.

Marchand waves copies of Crawford's evidence - stills printed

from home-video Dick took at a hostage negotiation: Nunally

doing his job, his methods, his routine.

Willy uses the remote. On the TV, in black-and-white:

Jennifer and Nunally come out of their room and head for the

pool - indistinct figures zip jerkily in and out of rooms on

fast-forward -

- until he slows it: Crawford comes to let himself in.

Marchand watches over Willy's shoulder.    Shrugs.

Willy stares at the grainy black-and-white figure emerging

from the room, walking away down the corridor. Unconvinced:

Marchand gets his jacket, pulls it on.

Willy says nothing.    Runs the tape back and then slow-motions

it forward again.

Marchand goes out.    Leaving Willy alone, watching Crawford.

INT. WILLY'S APARTMENT - VERY LATE THAT NIGHT

Willy stands over crime scene photos and diagrams spread out

on his narrow futon. "Walking the scene" again, on paper.

The whole apartment is an array of law books, notes,

exhibits, marked-up depositions.

He's staring at evidence he's already stared at a hundred

times.

He grinds the palms of his hands into his eye sockets, a dull

moan rising into a yell -

- as he sweeps everything off his bed in a storm of paper -

throwing books - tearing up printouts - pulling out drawers,

emptying them, smashing them on the desk -

- yelling in a frenzy until his throat is hoarse, his shabby

garage apartment is trashed, and he's sitting, exhausted, in

his chair.

There's a knock on the door.

Willy frowns, checking the clock: it's two-thirty a.m.   He

goes to open it -

- revealing Nunally, standing in the darkness, a haunted

shadow of the boyish confident cop we met making love to

Jennifer Crawford.

Before Willy can say anything - Nunally walks away.

Willy doesn't move.   Watching the tormented cop disappear

down the alley.

INT. DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - BULLPEN - THE NEXT MORNING

Willy - in a clean suit and crisp suit, carrying his

briefcase - hurries through, paying no attention to the

SECRETARIES and OTHER D.D.A.s who watch like he's on his way

to his own execution.

At his office door, he gestures for Mona to come in with him.

Surprised, she gets up - taking with her an envelope with a

messenger-receipt taped to the front.

INT. WILLY'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Mona watches Willy shut the door behind her.

Beat.

Mona studies Willy - then accepts it's don't-ask-don't-tell,

hands him her number. Willy nods, grateful.

Turning for the door, she remembers the envelope in her hand.

He takes it, and as she leaves, checks the return address:

Wooton Sims.

Willy grimaces, opens it. Inside are an airline ticket to

Chicago - first class - and a handwritten note, on Wooton

Sims stationery:

He stands in his empty office, considering the ticket and the

note.

INT. COURTHOUSE - CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Willy steps off the elevator, into a crowd of REPORTERS AND

SPECTATORS outside the courtroom.

He's startled for a moment: it's worse than he expected - the

dense buzz of talk in the marble corridor and all the eyes

tracking him like he's walking into an arena - a freakshow

performer -

- but he doesn't slow, ignoring the comments and questions,

avoiding eye contact -

- until he sees Nunally by the courtroom doors, his eyes

fixed on Willy.

Willy meets Nunally's gaze...moving on, giving back nothing.

Nunally watches Willy disappear into the courtroom, stares at

the closing doors - uncertain, on edge. Lost, no matter

which way this goes.

INT. COURTROOM - SOON AFTER

Mr. Gifford, the Crawford's neighbor, is on the stand.   Willy

questions him, standing by the Prosecution Table.

Behind him, the court is standing-room-only. REPORTERS,

SKETCH ARTISTS, SPECTATORS. Nunally, sitting near the front.

Lobruto, standing at the back.

Crawford writes intently on a legal pad, filling pages with

dense scribble.

Crawford glances up at the Judge. Then at Gifford, as if

he's just noticed him up there. Beat. Without getting up:

Willy closes his eyes.   Gifford grimaces.

Willy immediately stands:

But Crawford is standing too - with his handful of pages:

The Judge hesitates.   Both men standing.

Willy stares at Crawford, stunned. As the Judge reluctantly

nods to the Bailiff to collect Crawford's pages and opens a

law book:

While the Judge checks the citations, Crawford glances at

Willy. Amused.

Beat. Willy looks down - reaches into his briefcase, moves

his cell-phone out from under some papers. To where he can

get it easily.

Looks back up at Crawford.   Smiles slightly.

Willy and Crawford turn to the Judge.

Beat.

The Judge nods.

Willy nods down. Trying to focus. He's got nothing, and

everyone in the room knows it. He can hear it, he can feel

it. There's a restless, hungry edge to the crowded

courtroom.

He stares into his open briefcase: the cell phone.

Next to it: the first class ticket and Nikki's note.

Willy glances back at the gallery. Nunally's eyes burn into

him. In the back: Lobruto frowns, concerned.

Willy turns back to his briefcase.     He breathes.   Press the

MENU button - selects SPEED DIAL.

On the tiny screen, a list of names.    Selected: MONA/CELL.

INT. COURTHOUSE - CORRIDOR - THE SAME TIME

Mona sits on a bench, a few steps down the corridor from the

courtroom doors. Cell phone in her hand.

INT. COURTROOM - CONTINUOUS

Willy stands at the Prosecution Table.       Hearing his own

pulse.

Crawford studies Willy, curious.

Willy's fingertip hovers over the cell phone keypad.       Press,

and a path is chosen. Possibly for life.

Next to the cell-phone, the ticket and the note.       See you

tomorrow.

Nunally sits forward.    Lobruto is watching intently.

Willy doesn't move.

Willy won't look up.

Nunally stares, agonized.

Willy grimaces slightly, as if he feels his soul burning up,

turning to ash and blowing away -

- nods, closing the cell phone, sliding it under Nikki's

note. Shuts the briefcase. Looks at the Judge.

Crawford begins to smile.

Lobruto looks down.    A buzz rises in the gallery -

- as Nunally gets up, furious - stalks to the doors, slams

out.

Judge Robinson looks at Willy a moment - then at Crawford,

who has been waiting, calm and polite. Very reluctantly:

Uproar.   The Judge bangs his gavel -

- practically shouting over the chaos - REPORTERS hastily

heading for the doors, pulling out cell phones -

Crawford gives the Judge a gentlemanly bow of the head.

Willy begins to pack his papers into the briefcase.   Refusing

to look up.

The Judge and the Bailiff might be saying other things, but

no one is listening - SPECTATORS swarm up the aisles, out to

the hallway - and the Court starts to close down.

Crawford comes over to Willy, holds out a hand.

Willy looks him in the eye.   Doesn't move.   Crawford shrugs.

He winks, and heads up the aisle.

As Willy watches Crawford go out the doors into a clamor of

lenses, hand-held mikes, white-hot halogen glare and flashes -

- he hears a buzzing noise. Looks down at his briefcase,

moves the papers aside: his cell phone is vibrating.

Willy stares at it, as if he'd forgotten the thing could be

used for an incoming call.

The caller ID reads: WOOTON SIMS.   He picks up -

INT. WOOTON SIMS - NIKKI'S OFFICE - THE SAME TIME

Nikki sits at her beautiful desk with stellar views out the

windows behind her.

Awkward silence.      She tries to get past it:

- there's a gun shot outside the courtroom.

Willy turns.    Shocked.    Screams and shouting in the corridor.

We move with Willy as he shuts the phone and heads for the

doors - faster, pushing out -

INT. COURTHOUSE - CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

- into the echoing chaos of the corridor - trying to move in

the crowd -

- shoving through to where people are yelling and clustered

around a figure lying on the floor.

Willy pushes closer, until he catches glimpses of:

Nunally.   Lying on the marble floor. His gun in his lifeless

fingers.   Blood all over, from his head.

Willy stops pushing. Won't let himself look away - the

screams and commotion around him retreating into a numb blur.

Then suddenly Willy looks up - as if he's been called -

- to find Crawford, standing very still, in the crowd, on the

other side of the body. Everyone else is moving, talking,

gawking at the body or averting their eyes -

- except Crawford.   He's looking straight at Willy.

Pleased.   Triumphant.

Willy stares into Crawford's eyes.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - LATE THAT NIGHT

The life support system clicks and hisses and beeps.

Jennifer is curled into a fetal position, despite the tubes

and wires.

Willy sits by her bed. Still in his suit from court, the

jacket off, the tie loose.

He's been there a while.   But now he speaks.

He feels stupid. Takes a breath.     Looking at her pale,

drawn, comatose face.

He stands, goes to get his jacket, lying folded on a table by

the door. Pulls it on, settles the shoulders, tugs at his

cuffs. Gets his briefcase.

He goes to the door, and as he opens it - he looks back.

Freezes.

Jennifer's eyes are wide open.

She's staring at him.   Willy stands, breathless, watching

her.

INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - LATER

Sliding glass doors suck open, Willy walks with the Resident

from the other night:

CLOSE UP - JENNIFER'S EYEBALL

A beam of light slides across it.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The Resident tucks his flashlight in a pocket, draws a pin

from his lapel. Gently sticks Jennifer's cheek. Willy

winces, watching.

The Resident ignores him. Pricks her forehead - her chin -

her big toe. Each time she twitches. He runs his thumb

along the sole of Jennifer's bare foot. It arches up.

The Resident sighs.   Sympathetic, but plain:

The Resident studies Willy.   Reluctantly:

Willy nods, grateful. As the Resident heads out, Willy sits

by Jennifer's bed - protective, intent.

INT. HOSPITAL - LOBBY - THE NEXT MORNING

Crawford comes in through the lobby: rested, well-dressed.   A

free man. He slows, surprised -

- seeing Willy come off the elevators. Willy hasn't left

Jennifer's bedside. He's in the same suit and carrying his

briefcase from the courthouse.

Willy nods.    Concealing the ace up his sleeve.

Crawford frowns.     Starting to feel wary.   Willy sees it.

Enjoys it.

Beat.   Willy winks.    He goes past Crawford and out the doors.

Crawford doesn't move - except to turn and watch Willy.

Uncertain, for the first time since we've met him.

INT. WOOTON SIMS - RECEPTION - LATER THAT MORNING

Willy - still unshaved, unslept, in yesterday's suit - comes

off the elevator, fishing out ID as he passes a RECEPTIONIST:

- going directly to the key-card slot by the glass double-

doors to the rest of the floor. He swipes his card and pulls

the handle -

- but it stays locked.     Willy swipes his card again.   No go.

He stops, realizing how he must look.

As he calls in, Willy sees Nikki through the doors - one of

a half-dozen ASSOCIATES trailing in the wake of BOB WOOTON.

They all carry expensive business luggage, except Wooton -

who is powerful, perfectly groomed, and two decades older.

Willy goes toward the glass doors as Wooton comes through -

nodding deferentially to the boss, semi-apologetic:

Wooton glances back at Nikki, eyes saying: don't take long.

She nods as Wooton and the team continue to the elevators -

staying back by the glass doors to talk with Willy:

Nikki explodes - but quietly, not wanting the team to hear:

Willy stares. Because she's drawn a line in the sand. One

he already crossed, without truly understanding...and now

he's standing out there alone - feeling the sand slither away

under his feet.

Willy just breathes.   Vulnerable like we have never seen him

before.

He looks across the big reception area, at Wooton and the

team of associates. Some look away.

Ding!   The elevator.    Nikki grimaces, frustrated - and sad:

She starts for the elevators, Willy following -

Willy grabs Nikki's arm to stop her, turn her around - and

she shoves him away, hard, tears welling in her eyes -

- Willy letting her go - as the Receptionist quietly calls

for help -

- and Nikki hurries into the waiting elevator.     The Associate

holding the doors lets them go.

The doors begin to close. Willy stands facing the cluster of

lawyers in expensive suits, their expressions ranging from

pity to contempt -

- except Nikki, whose eyes are full of shame and guilt and

defensive anger.

As the doors shut across them.

Willy doesn't move.     Confused, humiliated, frustrated.

He turns when a bunch of OTHER LAWYERS emerge from the

offices, ready to act as bouncers. People gawk from behind

the glass doors.

Beat.   Willy holds up his palms.

He bangs open the paddle-sign on the stairway door, setting

off the fire alarms as he stalks out.

INT. WOOTON SIMS - BUILDING STAIRWAY - SOON AFTER

Willy runs down the stairs furiously -

- the clanging alarm, several floors above now, a little

fainter.

He suddenly stops - clinging to the railing, bent over.    He

sways, dizzy, gasping -

- backs up until he's against the concrete wall. Presses

himself against. Listening to his own ragged breathing.

Scared out of his mind.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DUSK

Crawford stands by the bed, glancing over a set of forms on a

metal clipboard.

DR. LUNT, a senior neurologist, and a HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATOR

wait. The machines hiss and click, keeping Jennifer alive.

Crawford signs the forms, expressionless.

EXT. COURTHOUSE - THE SAME TIME

Willy's walking alongside Judge Robinson, as they leave the

building. The Judge is wearing his "civilian clothes."

The Judge stops - giving Willy a hard eye: I'm sympathetic,

but yelling at me is not a smart approach.

Willy looks at the Judge a second - hapless, frustrated,

scared - then nods and shakes his head and turns away -

hurrying off through the homeward-bound crowds.

The Judge watches him go.   Grimaces.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - KITCHEN - THAT EVENING

Crawford is carefully preparing an elegant, solitary meal.

Music plays on his state-of-the-art sound system.

He stops, noticing a pair of Jennifer's reading glasses,

folded up by a note-pad and pen next to the telephone. He

picks them up. Stylish, feminine.

He goes to the trash, steps on the pedal to flip open the

lid, and drops the glasses in.

Goes back to cooking.

INT. LOBRUTO HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Lobruto - at the dinner table with his family - looks up,

surprised, as the doorbell rings. He excuses himself -

- goes to open the door. Willy's outside: apologetic but

urgent, near the end of his rope.

Beat.

Willy looks down at himself: he's unshaven, in the same

rumpled clothes he wore to court yesterday. Exasperated:

Willy nods. Lobruto looks out at the confused, frantic young

man - truly sorry that he can't help Willy fight his way back

toward doing some good in this mess.

Willy stares a second, slowly understanding his situation.

Beat.

Willy grimaces.   But nods.   Turns away.

EXT. LOBRUTO HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

We move with Willy out to the quiet street. The windows of

the houses he passes seem warm and safe - and very far away.

Behind him, Lobruto watches from his lighted doorway.

Willy walks, shaken, determined, into the night.

INT. HOSPITAL - I.C.U. - THE NEXT MORNING

A NURSE checks Jennifer Crawford's vital signs. She then

begins to gently wash Jennifer's face, where it's not taped

or bandaged.

The monitor beeps, the ventilator hisses.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - THE SAME TIME

Crawford knots his necktie, studying himself in the mirror.

Expressionless.

EXT. GARDNER HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - SOON AFTER

Judge Gardner pulls his car out to the street -

- swerving hastily, as Willy's car skids alongside and forces

him to the curb, horn honking.

Willy pulls to a stop, blocking Gardner's way, and gets out

of the car - holding up both palms: just wait.

INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - LATER THAT MORNING

Dr. Lunt takes a chart from the I.C.U. Nurses' Station.

INT. CRAWFORD'S CAR - SOON AFTER

Crawford drives, wearing a dark suit, sunglasses.   Calm.

INT. JUDGE GARDNER'S CHAMBERS - SAME TIME

Willy watches GARDNER'S SECRETARY bring in a document, fresh

off the laser-printer. As Gardner signs:

INT. PARKING STRUCTURE - DOWNTOWN L.A. - CONTINUOUS

Willy brakes as he drives around a corner and sees a DRIVER

wrangling with the BOOTH GUY. He grimaces, looks around -

- backs up, tires squealing, heading for another exit.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dr. Lunt stands by Jennifer's bed, supervising the Nurse and

an Orderly as they prepare her.

INT. HOSPITAL - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Crawford walks in, goes toward the elevators.

INT. WILLY'S CAR - INTERSECTION - CONTINUOUS

He floors it, racing under a light going red - narrowly

misses getting broad-sided.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dr. Lunt looks up from making notes on Jennifer's chart, as

Crawford enters the room.

EXT. EMERGENCY ROOM ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS

Willy pulls into a NO PARKING zone and jumps out, papers in

hand - tossing the keys to an ORDERLY smoking a cigarette -

- running through the automatic doors.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Standing beside Dr. Lunt, Crawford watches, expressionless -

- as the Nurse and the Orderly work, efficient and silent,

disconnecting the oxygen tubes, unplugging the monitor -

INT. HOSPITAL LOBBY - SOON AFTER

Willy dodges people, coming to the elevators - which open.

Too crowded.

INT. HOSPITAL STAIRWAY - SOON AFTER

Willy gasps a little as he hurries up the stairs -

INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - SOON AFTER

- comes out of the fire stairs, hurrying toward I.C.U. -

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

- and into Jennifer's room, where he stops.     Shocked.

The bed is being stripped, the equipment rolled out.

Willy stares, breathless, overwhelmed.

Willy struggles to control his emotions.     Looks down.

Willy tries to understand her.   With growing horror.

We hear the surge of a jet engine -

- as Willy runs out of the room.

EXT. HOSPITAL ROOF - HELIPAD - LATER

A Sikorsky S-76 Medevac chopper is preparing to take off,

very loud and windy.

Through the open doorway and the thick windows, we can

glimpse Crawford sitting beside Jennifer, who is strapped on

to a gurney. She's connected to life-support equipment.

The MED TECH is outside, checking a few last supplies and

giving Crawford a moment alone with his wife.

Crawford moves. He may be whispering to her.    Or adjusting

her pillow. Hard to tell.

As he climbs out of the chopper -

- he sees Willy across the roof, arguing with Dr. Lunt, who

is skimming the court documents, shaking his head.

Crawford, curious, walks toward the two men.

EXT. HOSPITAL ROOF HELIPAD - WILLY - THE SAME TIME

Dr. Lunt hands Crawford the court order. As Crawford reads

them, Lunt and Willy shout over the helicopter engine:

He looks at Crawford: reading - amused, thoughtful.

Lunt hesitates, feeling a tiny edge of doubt.

Crawford checks his watch.   Looks into Willy's eyes -

- then gestures for Willy to join him, and turns back to walk

across the pad to the helicopter. Climbs in.

Willy stares, stunned.

Lunt looks at him: case closed. The rotors whirl faster,

engine noise rising to a scream.

From the open chopper doorway, Crawford looks at Willy again

and gestures for him to get on.

Willy doesn't know how to react.   Slowly, he starts to walk

toward the helicopter.

INT. HELICOPTER - CONTINUOUS

Willy bends, coming to the door - wind-whipped, flinching.

Crawford holds out a hand to help him in.

Willy doesn't move.   The PILOT glances back.

Crawford's eyes are locked with Willy's.

Willy stares at Crawford, scared. But unable to back down

from the crude, plain challenge. Which Crawford is clearly

counting on.

Angry, at himself, Willy climbs in without taking Crawford's

hand. As he nervously figures out how to buckle himself in -

- the Med Tech secures the door, the Pilot turns to face

front - and they lift off.

EXT. ABOVE LOS ANGELES - SOON AFTER

Looking directly down at the Sikorsky as it glides over a

picturesque mapscape of streets and freeways, gray and terra-

cotta rooftops, blue kidneys and rectangles of pool.

INT. HELICOPTER - SAME TIME

Willy watches Crawford, who stares back at him.       Calm.

Glances uneasily at the Pilot, bug-headed in sun-goggles and

headphones. Flying them, calm.

The Med Tech, adjusting Jennifer's portable ventilator.

Calm.

EXT. ABOVE LOS ANGELES - SOON AFTER

The Sikorsky glides over cross-hatched parking lots, a pale

swath of beach -

- and the white foaming edge of the Pacific.

INT. HELICOPTER - CONTINUOUS

Willy looks up from the view.       Scared.   Yells to the Pilot.

Willy looks at Crawford.

EXT. ABOVE THE OCEAN - SOON AFTER

Deep dark vast blue.   The Sikorsky flies over.      Small.

INT. HELICOPTER - SOON AFTER

Willy stares into Crawford's eyes.

Then he looks around at the vibrating metal box carrying him

hundreds of feet above the earth. The sunlight glare in the

scratched windows. The blur of the rotors against the empty

sky. The edges of the door frame. The rivets in the roof.

Crawford's eyes.   Amused.

Willy unbuckles his seat-belt, lurches toward the Pilot -

Willy points to Crawford, who's just sitting there -

An alarm begins to shriek - on the ventilator.

Everyone turns as the Med Tech hastily kneels next to it -

- Willy whips around to look at Crawford, with fury in his

glare: oh, you bastard.

Crawford almost smiles.

The Med Tech is flipping switches, checking wires -

The Pilot turns - steeply, Willy falling over, the Med Tech's

supplies spilling - as the Med Tech hastily removes

Jennifer's breathing tube and prepares to begin C.P.R. -

The Med Tech looks up - startled.     Confused.

Willy watches, wide-eyed, as the Med Tech grabs up his

paperwork, searching it -

The Med Tech looks up at Willy, scared.

Willy turns on Crawford.   He shrugs.

The Med Tech looks at Willy, paralyzed.

The Med Tech turns to Crawford, uncertain -

Willy throws himself at Crawford - attacking him, as the Med

Tech grabs him, drags him back -

- the Med Tech holding Willy down on the floor by Jennifer's

stretcher - Willy struggles furiously -

Willy is pointing at Jennifer - shocked -

- as the Med Tech lets him up and they kneel by her, the Med

Tech taking her pulse - Willy, staring down at her, intent:

She's breathing.

Willy whirls around to Crawford.        Who's frowning.

Willy turns back to Jennifer. Delicately strokes the side of

her face. Her eyes flutter open -

- she stares into Willy's eyes. He takes her hand.        Silent

awe in her eyes. Yearning. Fear.

She squeezes his hand.      Very weakly.

Crawford is looking daggers: die, bitch.

Jennifer's eyes - fixed on Willy - roll back.        She fights it.

Something sad in her wordless gaze.        As it starts to fade.

She's slipping. Her eyes gone empty.        Her hand becoming

lifeless in his.

Tears well up in Willy's eyes, but he struggles against them -

feeling Crawford's gaze, refusing him the satisfaction.

But she's gone. He stares down. Mourning her. Letting his

grief slowly burn into rage. He gently reaches up and closes

her eyes.

Then he looks up at Crawford, who smiles sympathetically.

Willy stares into his eyes. Cold.        Then he looks away.    Out

the window, into the sun-glare.

INT. WILLY'S APARTMENT - A COUPLE OF DAYS LATER

The garage door is open, letting in daylight. We can see the

alley especially well, because there are only empty hangers

on the clothes-bar, and the cinderblock shelves have been

taken apart, stacked on the floor.

Willy is packing.    He's wearing jeans, an old t-shirt.

He carries a heavy pile of legal textbooks out to the trash

bins, throws them away.

As he turns to go back in - he sees Lobruto coming along the

alley, wearing a suit. Surprised, waits.

Beat.

Willy heads back in, starts to pack again.

Lobruto nods.   Willy packs.

Willy packs, thinking about that.   Shakes his head.

Willy turns on him - angry, confused, bitter:

Lobruto nods. Respecting his pain.     Shrugs, accepts the

decision, with regret.

Willy nods his thanks, and turns back to packing.

Lobruto starts to leave.    But from the alley door:

Willy doesn't respond.    Keeps packing.

Lobruto goes out.

After a moment, Willy stops.    Looking up.   Something turning

over in his mind.

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Lobruto is walking toward his car when Willy steps out of the

garage and calls after him:

Lobruto turns.   Uncertain what Willy is getting at.

Willy comes toward him - excited, insistent:

Lobruto thinks it out.    Wary.

Lobruto nods. On the fence, but seeing it now.         Impressed

with the young man's fervor, and his logic.

But he shakes his head.

Willy grimaces.    Looks down.    Thinking, intense.

Willy looks up at him.    Calm now.

Beat. Lobruto sighs, as Willy nods and turns to start back

to the garage. With work to do.

Willy disappears inside.

INT. S.I.D. LAB - LATER

End of the day. Marchand pulls on his coat, shuts down his

computer. He turns to go -

- Willy is standing in his doorway.

INT. POLICE EVIDENCE WAREHOUSE - SOON AFTER

Willy follows an EVIDENCE CLERK along an aisle between floor-

to-ceiling steel shelves of boxes marked with case numbers.

The Clerk stops, checking a number against a slip of paper in

his hand - pulls down a box for Willy.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - THAT NIGHT

Crawford is building a new Rube Goldberg device, tools and

parts laid out precisely on a table.

Eyes enlarged by the glasses, he silently connects two tiny

pieces of metal -

- when a French door suddenly implodes, a metal lawn chair

hurled in from the backyard smashing through it.

Crawford stands, taking off the glasses -

- as Willy walks in over the broken glass, carrying Nunally's

gun.

Willy crosses the room to the alarm panel on the wall.

He presses the POLICE emergency button, then turns to

Crawford.

Crawford doesn't move.

Willy raises his gun, points it at Crawford's face.

Crawford studies Willy.

He laughs.   Willy keeps the gun aimed at him.

Crawford nods.    Considering the game.   Unruffled.

Silence. Crawford studies Willy's eyes, over the muzzle of

the gun between them.

Willy cocks the gun.

Crawford shakes his head.    Eyes on Willy.

Willy doesn't lower the gun.    But he doesn't pull the

trigger, either.

Beat.   Crawford smiles slightly.

Willy glares over the gun.     Crawford shrugs.

Willy's angry.   Frustrated.    Trapped.

His bluff called.     Refusing to back down.

Crawford is thrown by this - but conceals it well.

Willy grimaces, over the gun still aimed at Crawford's face.

He has backed himself into a corner, and he's getting scared.

Because all of a sudden the threat he came to fake Crawford

out with -

- is starting to seem like his only way out.

Even Crawford sees it. In Willy's eyes. The uncertain edge

of the idea. He could just do it. End the game. Blow

Crawford's brains all over the wall.

It would be so easy. With his life already a shambles.   With

everything already lost. At least he would have this.

Willy's finger tightens on the trigger.

And Willy does.   Hesitating.

Distracted, by a thought.

Lowering the gun slightly, looking at it - remembering:

INT. S.I.D. LAB - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Marchand, on the phone - holding the gun Crawford

surrendered, in its plastic EVIDENCE bag:

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - (RESUME)

Crawford is getting edgy, watching Willy study Nunally's gun:

He looks up at Crawford.    Getting it.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - (FLASHBACK)

Nunally setting down his pistol on the chair - as Crawford,

across the room, sets down his on the table.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - (RESUME)

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Surveillance-cam view: Crawford lets himself into the room -

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Crawford quietly closes the door behind him.     Stands, taking

it all in -

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - (RESUME)

Willy looks at Crawford.    Stunned.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Crawford checks the dresser drawers, the night-table - finds

Nunally's badge, holster and gun.

Crawford replaces Nunally's gun with his own matching pistol,

which was tucked into the back of his belt.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - (RESUME)

Beat.   Crawford shrugs - arrogant:

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - (FLASHBACKS - VERY QUICK)

Crawford fires at Jennifer - Crawford shoots at the transom -

Crawford holds out the gun, to Nunally: making the offer -

Nunally setting down his pistol on the chair, as Crawford,

across the room, sets down his on the table.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - (RESUME)

Willy turns, looking into the alcove:

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - (FLASHBACK)

Nunally rushes past Crawford to kneel by Jennifer - shocked,

frantic -

- ignoring Crawford behind him.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - (RESUME)

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Nunally's calling for help on the walkie-talkie, desperately

starting C.P.R. -

- as behind him, Crawford picks up the murder weapon,

(Nunally's gun) from the table -

- and walks over to the chair where Nunally left Crawford's

gun (from his holster).

Crawford picks up his gun and sets the murder weapon on the

chair in its place.

He then comes back to put his gun on the table, where it will

be mistaken for the murder weapon. Straightens, done.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACKS)

Nunally grabs up the murder weapon from the chair, upset,

distracted - puts it in his holster -

A Detective drops Jennifer's gun into an evidence bag -

- as Nunally walks out.

INT. CRAWFORD HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - (RESUME)

Willy stares at Crawford.    In real wonder.

Willy looks down at the gun in his hand.    Thoughtful.

Willy smiles, slow...    Enjoying himself, at last.

Willy nods to himself, going to the wooden bowl of ball-

bearings - selecting one, carrying it to the Rube Goldberg

machine:

Studying the complex device, toying with Crawford:

Crawford frowns.   Trying to see what Willy's getting at.

Crawford fires at Jennifer -

- and fires three times at the transom.

Crawford pushes new bullets into the clip -

- and slides the clip back into the gun, pleased.

Willy nods, thinking it out.   Sure of himself.

He sets the ball-bearing into the slot at the top of the

machine -

Crawford reacts.

CLOSE: Crawford's fingers, putting the bullets in the clip.

Willy lets the ball go - watching it begin rolling down the

ornate tracks.

The ball tumbles and clatters - flipping and clicking through

the ingenious, precise, heartless machinery -

- and Crawford is recognizing, slowly, his one mistake.

The gun in Nunally's limp dead fingers, glimpsed on the

marble courthouse floor, through the crowd.

Willy turns from the machine -

- which continues clattering and working, beside him.

He holds the gun up.     Savoring Crawford's growing fear.

They can hear a car rolling up the driveway. Red and blue

lights sweep the frosted glass by the front door.

Without looking, Willy gently pushes the machine, moving it a

fraction of an inch on the floor -

- as the ball catapults out - sailing across the living room

in a perfect, graceful arc -

- that misses the bowl.

Outside, the police car doors open and then slam.

Crawford, going pale, watches the metal ball roll off the

coffee-table and across the floor toward him.

Crawford doesn't move.     Trying to focus.    His mind working.

The ball comes to rest against Crawford's shoe.

The doorbell rings.

Crawford looks up.     Meeting Willy's eyes.

Smiling slightly, Willy tucks Nunally's gun into his belt and

puts his hands in the air.

And gives Crawford a wink.

Crawford is staring at Willy, frozen - panic and hatred and

fear curdling in his eyes -

- as behind him, the police begin pounding on the front door.

