BLACK. We HEAR the soft voice of Frances Farmer.

FADE IN:

EXT. PUGET SOUND - DAY

On an expanse of water, calm and undisturbed. After a moment,

it begins to ripple as something rises toward the surface. A

girl's face breaks through.

The girl, FRANCES, is 16, blond, very pretty: she seems like

the most persuasive proof imaginable of God's existence. She

swims toward the shore with long graceful strokes... then

climbs the steps of the old wood jetty on West Point Beach.

EXT. PUGET SOUND - LATER

The banks of Puget Sound, dotted with elm trees. Frances

sits comfortably in the fork of a tree writing in her diary.

Towel around her neck, her hair splayed out and drying golden

in the sun.

INT. FARMER HOME - FAMILY ROOM - EVENING

Frances is now reading aloud from her diary, gently swaying

back and forth in a rocking chair. An older woman, LILLIAN

FARMER, sits opposite on the couch, listening and nodding

from time to time. A small suitcase stands by the front door.

ERNEST FARMER appears in the doorway and hesitates, listening

to his daughter read.

Ernest goes to Frances and kisses her softly on the top of

her head. She looks at him briefly, smiling slightly.

He goes to the door and picks up his suitcase, glances at

Lillian. She doesn't look up. He leaves.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Frances stands at a podium. Other STUDENTS and TEACHERS sit

to either side of her on folding chairs. Above the proscenium

is engraved: West Seattle High School. Below that a banner

hangs: "NATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL ESSAY COMPETITION, 1931."

The AUDIENCE consists of parents, students, and local

dignitaries. We SEE several shocked faces. Lillian is there

also, smiling. Seated next to her is a distinguished-looking

woman, ALMA STYLES. Ernest sits on the other side of the

auditorium, looking a little worried.

Frances closes her notebook and looks up, waiting for some

response. There is a deep shocked silence, then a smattering

of applause. Lillian claps enthusiastically, then rises to

her feet. In the back a WOMAN also stands.

A stately man sitting next to her, her husband JUDGE BENJAMIN

HILLIER, puts a restraining hand on her arm. The woman

continues to glare at Frances.

Frances stares back, dumbfounded.

EXT. SEATTLE STREETS - DAY

The screen erupts into violence. A large unruly MOB skirmishes

with POLICE in a cobblestoned square. On a truckbed addressing

the crowd -- which carries placards reading: "Organize Now!",

"Workers of the World Unite!", and "Elect Kaminski!" stands

MARTONI KAMINSKI. By his side, leading the crowd's responses,

stands a younger man with sharp piercing eyes, HARRY YORK.

The crowd cheers. Harry York gives Kaminski the thumbs-up

sign as a banner unfurls: "Today Seattle -- Tomorrow the

World."

FADE IN:

A TITLE COMES ON SCREEN: GOD'S IN HIS HEAVEN AND ALL'S RIGHT

WITH THE WORLD? 'NOT SO!' SAYS YOUNG FRANCES FARMER

We realize we've been watching a newsreel. We SEE the SCHOOL

SUPERINTENDENT presenting Frances with an award.

City Hall steps. Judge Hillier and other BIGWIGS speaking

heatedly to reporters.

Lillian stands in front of her wood frame house addressing a

small CROWD of reporters, photographers, and curious

neighbors.

Among the AUDIENCE in the cinema, we SEE Frances and her

father. Frances slinks down in her seat until she's hidden

from sight.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET (SEATTLE) - DAY

Frances carries library books and a small grocery bag. Her

hair and skin gleam in the sun. People in their yards stare

at her as she passes. She walks on, coming to a group of

CHILDREN slightly younger than herself who are playing in

front of a union hall. A girl, EMMA, 13, glances up.

Emma looks away quickly, returns to her play.

Frances shakes her head as she walks on.

Frances hesitates, then turns to look:

A man in his twenties whom we recognize as Harry York,

Kaminski's compatriot, leaves a group of men in front of the

union hall and walks toward her.

Frances keeps walking. Harry hurries after her.

She stares at him. He's got a newspaper wedged under one

arm.

Harry laughs.

Frances hesitates, leans toward him as though about to frisk

him. Their eyes meet, and she pulls away, suddenly

embarrassed.

Beat.

They half-smile, awkwardly, as if neither really wants this

encounter to end. Then Harry doffs his hat.

She nods shyly and starts up the path toward the house.

INT. COURTROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

CLOSE ON Judge Hillier in his robes, identified by a nameplate

on the bench.

The CAMERA PULLS SLOWLY BACK. We SEE that the courtroom is

empty.

Now we SEE who he's talking to: Alma Styles, the woman who

sat with Lillian at the school auditorium.

He nods with satisfaction. Two right-thinking people fighting

for what they believe in.

INT. FARMER HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Ernest Farmer sits alone, motionless, at the table. Between

two candles, facing him, is Frances' check for a hundred

dollars.

We HEAR bustle from behind the kitchen door, then Lillian

and Frances enter juggling several hot dishes. Ernest rises.

They set down the dishes, Frances intentionally placing the

bread between the check and her father.

She moves the bread so Ernest again faces the check. As

Lillian slices the bread, father and daughter eat grimly.

She leaves. A long silence.

They both glance slightly awkwardly at the check.

Frances takes it, folds it, and puts it in her pocket, out

of sight.

INT. STUDY - LILLIAN - NIGHT

Sitting at a rolltop desk. She's looking through a large

scrapbook. We SEE articles about nutrition and diet, some

featuring Lillian's picture, others with her name in the

heading. She listens to the conversation in the other room.

Lillian's face becomes set. She looks down at the book. An

article titled "Girl Denies God" is there, freshly pasted.

She lays a hand on the blank page opposite.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Lillian appears in the doorway.

She stomps out. Frances and Ernest push back their plates.

EXT. BACK GARDEN - NIGHT

Lillian is watering tomatoes in the dark and talking to them

quietly. As Ernest approaches, she senses him and grows

silent. She speaks without turning around.

Beat.

Ernest starts back toward the house. He sees Frances watching

them and slows down, turns...

He trudges back toward the house under Frances' eye.

A WOMAN'S VOICE comes from behind the fence.

OMITTED

EXT. FRONT PORCH - NIGHT

Ernest stands on the porch holding his little bag.

He trudges out and down the walk.

Frances watches him, shaking her head. That is not a lesson

she wants to learn.

OMITTED

INT. THEATRE LOBBY - NIGHT

Opening night. Harry is reading a playbill displayed in a

theatre lobby: "1934 Spring Production... University of

Washington Players Present: 'Uncle Vanya' by Anton Chekhov."

Frances is playing Sonia. Harry turns and enters the theatre.

OMITTED

INT. UNIVERSITY THEATRE STAGE - NIGHT

Frances on stage seen from a distance.

Frances is acting with a nervous young man, CHET. As her

speech progresses, the camera moves in nearer and nearer,

ending with a close-up. It is as if we are being drawn in by

her emotion.

Curtains close. AUDIENCE bursts into applause.

As the curtain opens and the players take their bows, we SEE

in the audience: Lillian and Ernest, Lillian clapping madly,

crying, nudging Ernest to clap harder.

And in the back stands Harry York.

INT. UNIVERSITY READING ROOM - NIGHT

A celebration in progress. Masks of Comedy and Tragedy hang

on the walls. DRAMA STUDENTS lounge about: eating, drinking,

talking noisily. Bing Crosby is on the record player, singing

"I've Got The World on a String." The Drama Teacher is holding

court to a group of attentive students.

The front door opens. Frances and Chet enter.

The young men rush over to congratulate her. Frances takes a

mock bow. She laughs as people cheer. TWO GIRLS observe from

the back.

INT. UNIVERSITY READING ROOM - SEVERAL HOURS LATER

Things have quieted down. The Drama Teacher has cornered

Frances and is gesticulating drunkenly, waving a copy of

"Voice of Action." Frances is also tipsy, but pays close

attention to her mentor.

A door opens quietly and Harry slips in. He smiles at Frances,

who disentangles herself from her teacher and rushes over.

She hesitates, looks around and sees Chet passed out, snoring

in a chair. She takes Harry's arm.

EXT. WEST POINT BEACH - NIGHT

The beach is very dark, but the sweep of the lighthouse picks

up an old Chevrolet parked near the shore.

INT. CHEVROLET - NIGHT

Frances and Harry are sitting in the back seat.

They are silent for a while.

He grins ironically and Frances laughs.

She looks at him, smiles wistfully.

She starts to unbutton her blouse. Harry is pleasantly

surprised, but unnerved.

Harry can't believe his good fortune.

INT. FARMER HOUSE - DAY

Lillian's face, distorted.

Lillian is in her apron, canning peaches.

She leaves. Lillian follows her down the narrow -- almost

institutional -- hallway.

They've reached Frances' room. She puts on her coat.

She stares out the window. We see Ernest mowing the lawn.

Frances turns and heads back down the hall. Lillian follows.

Frances keeps walking.

They've reached the kitchen. Ernest is there, sweating,

drinking water.

She storms outside. Frances sighs, looks at her father.

EXT. SEATTLE BUS STATION - DAY

Lillian has a few reporters drawn off to one side. Alma Styles

and a MINISTER stand nearby. A CROWD has gathered. Inside

the station, more reporters are milling around Frances.

INT. BUS STATION - FRANCES AND REPORTERS - DAY

Ernest and the Drama Teacher stand at Frances' side.

A TALL SPECTRAL MAN dressed in black adds:

Their cries seem weird, almost deranged, and Lillian is taken

aback.

EXT. BUS STATION - DAY

Passengers climb onto the bus. As Frances is hugged by her

Drama Teacher, the Tall Spectral Man approaches her. In his

arms he carries a potted plant, a Bible, and a flashlight.

Frances accepts the gifts, bewildered. The Tall Spectral Man

stares at her through hollow eyes. She staggers on toward

the bus, looking like a bedraggled Statue of Liberty. The

Tall Spectral Man sings an ethereal hymn.

Lillian blocks Frances' path. Frances looks at her tearfully.

As Frances climbs on board.

Inside the bus, Frances stares out the window and shakes her

head sadly.

The bus starts. Everyone looks at Lillian. She is

motionless... Furious. Frances sighs, and the bus moves off

unimpeded.

There is a homicidal rage in Lillian's eyes as she stares

after the vehicle. Then the Reporters rush toward her.

She looks down, her lip quivering. Humiliated, crumbling...

As the reporters shout unanswered questions, Ernest puts his

arm around his wife and leads her away.

FADE IN:

INT. FARMER STUDY - DAY

Lillian is happily thumbing through her scrapbook. Her hand

runs down the page, and we SEE a series of headlines, with

photos:

Then:

Next is a SNAPSHOT of Frances on board on ocean liner.

Then TWO SNAPSHOTS of her in what is clearly Moscow. She

wears a Russian hat. The Kremlin stands behind her.

Then SNAPSHOTS of her in New York, with a small clipping

from the "New York Times":

YOUNG ACTRESS RETURNS FROM RUSSIA, ASPIRES TO THE BROADWAY

STAGE

Below this is a magazine advertisement showing Frances in a

glossy Chesterfield ad. Her hair is swept up off her head,

and she looks glamorous, artificial, very different from how

we've seen her.

Lillian takes up the paste brush and liberally swabs the

opposite -- blank -- page of her scrapbook. A handwritten

letter from Frances lies beside her. She removes a clipping

from the letter and spreads it out. The clipping says: "STARS

OF TOMORROW" and shows a semi-circle of girl's faces inside

garish stars.

Lillian circles Frances' photo and sits back to admire it.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD - DAY

We SEE the Hollywood sign in the distance... then CHANGE

FOCUS to see the front of the studio...

INT. PHOTOGRAPHY STUDIO - HOLLYWOOD - DAY

Frances' hair is tightly curled. She is dressed in a

grotesquely ruffled white gown and seated on a small stool.

Behind her TWO ASSISTANTS fuss with bunches of white

carnations hanging on a grid. A seasoned PUBLICIST kneels

nearby and a woman with a coffee cup, CLAIRE, surveys the

scene.

Frances stares dramatically off into space.

The camera clicks.

The camera clicks again. MR. BEBE -- a tall, brooding, well-

dressed man -- ENTERS.

He leaves. Claire stares after him with profound contempt.

Claire rolls her eyes. She's heard this before.

The Camera clicks again. Frances is frozen in time.

INT. STUDIO ACTING CLASS - DAY

TWO STUDENTS are doing a scene from "Design For Living."

Others sit around watching, whispering, flirting, sleeping...

but Frances is paying very close attention, making notes.

The MAN next to her rubs her arm and whispers something. She

grimaces and pays no attention. Then she notices, two rows

in front, a young handsome student, DICK, who's also making

notes. She stares at him for a second, then back at the stage.

EXT. LAUREL CANYON COTTAGE - DAY

A tiny rustic cottage, dogs everywhere. Two identical old

Fords are parked out front.

INT. COTTAGE - DAY

Frances sits on the couch talking on the phone.

Water lands on her face. She grimaces playfully.

The last line is garbled as water streams in her mouth. She

fumbles for something on the floor.

She finds a water pistol on the floor, picks up the phone,

and starts searching for her assailant.

She flings open the bathroom door and finds him: Dick from

drama class. A furious water battle ensues.

She hangs up, lowers her gun as Dick squirts her. She's

getting wet. Her shirt clinging to her breasts. She likes

it.

INT. HOLLYWOOD SCREENING ROOM

On the small screen we SEE Frances in the arms of a MAN IN

FIRE CHIEF'S HAT.

ON SCREEN the corners of Frances' mouth begin to tremble,

but her eyes remain wide and innocent. The Fire Chief slowly

inclines his head toward hers. The brim of his hat hits her

forehead. Frances covers her face with her hands and bursts

out laughing. The Fire Chief looks stunned. She tries to

control herself.

Laughter inside the screening room. A small light flicks on,

and from behind we dimly SEE TWO MEN.

EXT. CATWALK - DAY

Frances smiles and eases shut the screening room door. We

HEAR the Laughing Man inside shout: "Let's see that again!"

Frances puts a cigarette in her mouth and fishes for a match.

A man's hand appears, holding a lighter. She looks up: It's

Harry, wearing a garish Hawaiian shirt and a Panama hat.

Frances throws her arms around him. They hug warmly.

They compare forearms.

She stares down two stories to the ground, imagining:

EXT. STUDIO LOT - DAY

Harry and Frances walking arm in arm.

Frances shakes her head.

She nods.

He's joking, but she doesn't respond.

She smiles wistfully, seeing him cover up his disappointment.

She squeezes his arm and they continue walking.

INT. SOUND STAGE - SET (RHYTHM ON THE RANGE) - DAY

Lights being adjusted, cameras set, actors walking through

their blocking. In the midst of this we SEE Frances, dressed

in western attire, making a point to the WARDROBE MISTRESS,

who is listening without enthusiasm.

We HEAR a man conspicuously clearing his throat. Both women

turn as Mr. Bebe steps forward.

He nods imperceptibly.

She hesitates, then goes.

EXT. STUDIO LOT - DAY

Frances and Bebe come through the sound stage door into the

light. He gestures to indicate what direction they're going,

but remains silent, watching her. She's uncomfortable,

blinking like a bird.

Frances is taken aback. This is all rather blunt.

They hear a ruckus in the distance and turn and look:

PICKETERS are fighting with POLICE. It is raucous, brutal.

Bebe turns back to her with a stern look:

She's about to reply, but he quickly takes her hand and raises

it to his lips. Kisses it very formally, like a suitor. Then

turns and walks into the sumptuous executive office building.

She watches him go.

OMITTED

FADE IN:

EXT. THEATRE MARQUEE - NIGHT

Brightly colored bulbs flashing, causing the wisps of fog

around them to glow. The bulbs spell:

A noisy CROWD is gathered outside the theatre, straining

against velvet cordons. Big black limos disgorge couples in

formal evening wear, to the applause of the crowd. All

slightly small-town, off-key.

Harry, now sporting a mustache, hat pulled down over his

face, stands across the street.

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

Two limousines streaking through the night.

INT. SECOND LIMOUSINE - NIGHT

Frances sits next to a faceless STUDIO EXECUTIVE. She's all

dolled up. She looks uncomfortable. Silence. She glances up

at the limo ahead of them.

INT. FIRST LIMOUSINE - NIGHT

Dick sits between Lillian and Ernest A REPORTER and

PHOTOGRAPHER crouch in front of them.

He winks at the reporters.

Dick smiles and hugs them both.

They're stopped at a light. Outside their window we SEE

DERELICTS, casualties of the depression, huddled in the night.

INT. FRANCES' LIMO - NIGHT

She's staring at the derelicts. We feel her sympathy for

them. Almost like she'd rather be out there. A MAN WITH HOLLOW

EYES shouts something at them.

She rolls down her window. The Studio Executive beside her

looks at her like she's crazy.

The limousine lurches forward. Frances settles back in her

seat, letting the night air sweep over her face.

EXT. THEATRE - NIGHT

The two limos pull up, the second emptying first. As Frances

gets out, the CROWD cheers wildly. She walks past them, eyes

glazed. She doesn't see Harry, who is held back by cordons.

Lillian is posing and signing autographs. In her tight, formal

dress, Frances looks radiant but constricted. As she walks,

voices assault her:

Frances sees her mother smiling nervously. They have entered

the:

INT. LOBBY - NIGHT

Again there is a cordoned area in the center where Seattle

luminaries are sipping champagne. Reporter #1 lurches forward:

Judge Hillier's Wife, whom we recognize as the Woman who

shouted at Frances in the auditorium, steps forward in a

garish gown. She's holding a large key.

She embraces and kisses Frances, who's more than a little

put off. After the kiss, she takes firm hold of Frances'

hand and won't let go. Judge Hillier steps to his wife's

side. Lillian also approaches.

A hideous silence. Judge Hillier is fuming. His wife is

aghast, the key to the city extended awkwardly in front of

her. She shoves it into Frances' arms.

Frances moves to leave, but her arm is taken by the Studio

Executive, who escorts her into the theatre. The crowd

follows. Lillian is utterly mortified.

EXT. THEATRE - NIGHT

We TRACK along the side of the theatre. An exit door is thrown

open, and Frances storms out. As she does, she trips over an

OLD INDIAN BEGGAR. She stops and looks at him. He peers up

at her with large forlorn eyes... then holds out his hand. A

connection is made. All the anger drains out of her. She

gives him money, several bills. He breaks into a wonderful

crooked grin. She starts away, hesitates, then hands him the

key to the city. He stares at it, bewildered.

She strides away toward her limousine, which is now parked

with several others at the end of the alley. The CHAUFFEURS

are talking and smoking a cigarette. Her chauffeur sees her

and hurries to his limo. As it pulls into the street, we see

Harry drift back to the curb and stare after it.

OMITTED

EXT. WEST POINT BEACH - NIGHT

Frances sits on the old wood jetty staring out at the water,

the lighthouse... Harry approaches.

She cracks up. Harry laughs at his mistake.

He looks at her thoughtfully, then sits.

Beat.

They start to walk now along the beach. We see Harry's car

and the chauffeured limousine parked above.

She shakes her head mischievously... moves backward

unbuttoning her coat.

The coat falls.

She kicks off another shoe, sailing it into the water.

Frances is zipping off her dress.

Harry bends to pick up the first shoe.

Harry watches her, mesmerized. The dress is off.

She skips off down the beach, her dress strewn on the sands.

After a moment, from the darkness, we SEE her underclothes

fly into view. Harry can restrain himself no longer.

He drops the shoe and runs after her, tearing off his clothes.

After a moment, from the darkness, we hear her squeals of

laughter.

EXT. STUDIO - HOLLYWOOD - DAY

The street outside the Studio Main Gate. Actors, directors,

etc. arrive in their shiny expensive autos. Among them is

Frances in her old battered Ford. She waves to the Guard and

drives through.

EXT. STUDIO LOT - DAY

As Frances pulls into her parking space, Claire, the woman

from the photo session, strolls up.

They walk toward the dressing room.

Claire is laughing. They go inside.

INT. FRANCES' DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Posh, fit for a star. Frances smiles at the MAKEUP MAN.

As Frances sits at the table and Eddie goes to work:

INT. FRANCES AND DICK'S COTTAGE - NIGHT

Dick is talking on the phone in the living room.

He hangs up. Immediately the phone rings again. He stares at

it wearily, then answers:

Through the half-open door to the bedroom we see Frances

dozing, an open script laid out beside her.

He hangs up. Stares off. Slowly enters the bedroom.

Frances looks up.

Frances looks stricken.

Dick presses on.

Dick is crumbling inside.

We watch it sink in. Confusion... self-pity... building

gradually to resentment and rage. He starts to throw a

tantrum. Hurling things around the room.

Frances just sits there.

He hurls a pillow against the wall and rushes out.

Frances looks after him, then turns. She's now facing the

bureau.

A mirror sits on top of the bureau. She looks into it. Doesn't

like her expression. Turns the mirror away.

OMITTED

FADE IN:

INT. THEATRE LOBBY - NIGHT

A playbill in a theatre lobby reads: "Mt. Kisco Playhouse,

1937 Summer Season: 'THE PETRIFIED FOREST'." Among the names

listed is: "Frances Farmer, the 'Come And Get It' Girl.

Suddenly we HEAR an eruption of applause.

INT. THEATRE - AUDIENCE - NIGHT

TIGHT SHOT on two men: HAROLD CLURMAN -- a thoughtful

aristocratic man -- and CLIFFORD ODETS, who is taller,

slimmer, with black hair and intense dark eyes. Around them

we see (mostly HEAR) the AUDIENCE going crazy, leaping to

its feet, yelling "Bravo! Bravo!" Clurman and Odets sit

impassively. As the hurrahs die down and the audience files

out, the two men sit there. Finally Clurman turns to Odets.

Odets nods very slightly.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Frances sits in the cramped room, listening intently to

Clurman. Occasionally she sneaks a glance at Odets, who is

pacing like some caged beast.

Odets is pacing furiously, seizing their attention. He stops,

looks at her, then resumes.

He stops. Tentatively, almost boyishly, he smiles.

She returns it. She's charmed.

EXT. BELASCO THEATRE MARQUEE - NIGHT

It reads "Golden Boy". Crowds of people streaming out of the

lobby. A sign over the box office reads: "Tomorrow's

performances sold out."

Odets sits on the curb. Behind him the lights in the theatre

lobby flicker off. PEDESTRIANS stroll by: an odd mix of

affluent theatre crowd and 1930s bums.

Frances emerges from the theatre, sees him sitting there.

Sits beside him.

He nods.

Another nod. He's silent. He peers up the street. A GIRL,

16, selling pencils catches his eye.

She looks like a waif: tough, vulnerable, pleading with a

WEALTHY COUPLE, following them down the street. A drama being

played out in the distance, out of earshot.

Frances watches the girl.

INT. WORKING CLASS BAR - LATER

The same conversation continuing:

EXT. PLATFORM - SPANISH EMBASSY - DAY

Clurman is delivering a speech in the background as

PHOTOGRAPHERS snap pictures. Behind them on the platform

Frances and Odets continue their conversation in whispers:

We now HEAR Clurman's speech. The initial words below were

background to the above. What we HEAR now is underlined:

EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREETS - NIGHT

They're walking. The conversation continues.

She is seething. Gorgeous. Alive.

He smiles, watching her.

As she feels the anger coursing through her body she realizes

what he's talking about. She looks at him, still breathing

heavily. Gradually her face turns toward a smile.

He reaches out and, with exquisite tenderness, kisses her.

INT. ODETS' APARTMENT - NIGHT

Later. They enter slightly drunk, laughing. He takes her

coat.

She's looking at the apartment. He sees her. A dark thought

flickers across his face, and he breaks into an exaggerated

act:

She starts to put on her coat. He watches her.

He opens the bedroom door.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

The bed is drawn back, and the sheets are sprinkled with

rose petals.

Frances' eyes are large.

The kiss is very hungry now.

INT. BEBE'S PANELLED OFFICE - HOLLYWOOD - DAY

Bebe's huge desk. Variety Headline: "ACTRESS FIGHTS FASCISM!"

Next to the newspaper are a dozen pencils which Bebe is lining

up precisely parallel. His expression is totally obsessive,

crazed.

Behind him a woman (TORA) is cutting his hair. A STUDIO LAWYER

paces nearby.

Tora is massaging the back of Bebe's neck. He's oblivious.

During this conversation, Bebe has been drawing on the

Variety. We now see his work. Beneath the headline was a

photo of Frances, on whom Bebe has drawn a mustache.

OMITTED

EXT. BELASCO THEATRE - NIGHT

The marquee for "Golden Boy" reads "Held Over". USHERS are

opening the glass doors from the empty lobby onto the street.

We HEAR thunderous applause from the inside.

EXT. BACKSTAGE DOOR - ALLEY - NIGHT

Frances emerges from the stage door to a throng of AUTOGRAPH

SEEKERS. She smiles tiredly, but good-naturedly complies. A

little ways back stands a boyish YOUNG MAN holding a single

red carnation. When the Autograph-seekers are satisfied and

all but a few have trailed away, the Young Man steps forward.

He shyly hands her the flower.

She smiles and begins to walk away. The Young Man follows

her.

Again she walks on. He follows.

Frances stops walking, her eyes shoot to the Young Man's

face.

The Young Man suddenly seems much older, and there is no

sign of the awkward boyishness.

The Young Man grins.

He begins to walk away.

He is gone.

OMITTED

INT. WORKING CLASS BAR - NIGHT

Odets sits at a table in back, drinking and writing in a

notebook. Frances comes up to him.

He smiles, draws her to him for a hug.

She hesitates, still affected by the incident outside the

theatre.

She nods, turns her back to him.

She is crying.

OMITTED

INT. ODETS' APARTMENT - DAY

Frances comes in the front door with a bag of groceries,

removes her key. Walks into the living room, stops short.

Clurman is sitting on the couch, a bottle and two glasses in

front of him.

She sits.

He pours. She drinks hers, watching him.

Frances looks like she's been punched in the stomach.

She collapses back into her seat. Her head is swirling.

She's glaring at him. He hands her a letter.

Her eyes fill with rage. She hurls her drink in his face.

He stands and, with as much dignity as he can muster, leaves.

Frances is shaking. She rips open the letter he gave her.

Stares at it in horror...

OMITTED

INT. BOOKIE JOINT - DAY

Plain room. A few tables with phones, men on the phones

writing down numbers. Behind them are blackboards with horses'

names and prices. Off to one side Harry is conferring with

the OWNER.

A Man at one of the phones looks up, calls.

Harry nods, startled. The Man at the table holds up the phone

and goes to his next call.

Harry takes the phone.

OMITTED

INT. ODETS' APARTMENT - NEW YORK - NIGHT

Frances on the phone. A half-packed bag lies on the bed. A

bottle and glass sit beside her. She's been crying and

drinking.

OMITTED

INT. BOOKIE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

OMITTED

INT. ODETS' APARTMENT - NEW YORK - NIGHT

Frances unfolds the crumpled letter Clurman gave her.

OMITTED

INT. BOOKIE JOINT - DAY

With the patter of the bookie taking bets beside him, Harry

listens to Frances' sobs.

He HEARS a CLICK on the other end. He hangs up and heaves a

long slow sigh.

FADE IN:

INT. SOUND STAGE - FLOWING GOLD SET - DAY

Frances, in a pair of overalls, falls face down into mud.

INT. SOUND STAGE - FLOWING GOLD SET - LATER

We SEE the slate: 'Flowing Gold', Scene 31A, Take 11... then

the same action is repeated from a slightly different angle.

Next to her is an old car, its wheels mired in mud.

INT. SOUND STAGE - FLOWING GOLD SET - LATER

Slate: Take 12. She falls again, this time splattering mud

all over her face and hair. She lies still for a moment,

gritting her teeth.

Sitting comfortably in a nearby director's chair is a DIRECTOR

reading Daily Variety. The headline reads: "STUDIO WINS FARMER

WAR ON HOLLYWOOD." Behind the Director, off to one side,

stands Bebe. The A.D. tugs on the Director's sleeve:

The Director glances toward Bebe, who nods with satisfaction.

Frances watches this interaction. She hesitates, then

approaches Bebe. She wipes some mud from her face and drops

it at her feet.

She turns and walks, with an air of pride, to her wardrobe

trailer.

EXT. ELEGANT BEACHFRONT HOME - NIGHT

Lights everywhere. Cars line the driveway. We HEAR the SOUND

of a large party.

A car pulls up. BOB BARNES gets out, goes around to open the

door for Frances. She's exhausted. She doesn't move.

She nods, takes a few. They head for the door.

INT. HOUSE - ENTRY HALL - NIGHT

The DOORBELL CHIMES. The hostess, CONNIE, a pleasant-looking

woman, answers the door.

As they embrace, Frances looks around with trepidation:

Barnes tries to pull Frances inside.

She sees a flurry of waiting faces. Everyone's watching her.

Barnes nods, concerned, and crosses to the bar.

Some people seem amused, some curious, some scornful. The

Director from the mud scene nods to her. Connie is at her

side for support. A voice from somewhere pierces the chatter:

As Barnes returns with her drink, she turns to Connie:

INT. UPSTAIRS BATHROOM - NIGHT

Later. Frances lies in a bubblebath, relaxing, sipping her

drink. She obviously feels a lot better. Someone knocks.

A FAT MAN ENTERS, stares at her.

He is dumbfounded. He slowly retreats into the hall.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Barnes is talking to a Young Man whom we recognize as the

reporter who tricked Frances in New York.

He nods toward a hard-faced OLDER WOMAN surrounded by

admirers.

INT. UPSTAIRS BEDROOM - NIGHT

We SEE the open door to the bathroom. Frances, with a towel

around her, is going through Connie's closet. Barnes KNOCKS.

Frances pulls down a dress and inspects it.

He nods and retreats out the door.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Everyone chattering away... then hushing slightly. Heads

turn: Frances is descending the stairway in one of Connie's

dresses. She looks absolutely radiant... like some kind of

goddess.

Barnes, looking very pleased at her appearance and the others'

reaction, hands her the drink.

Then the Young Reporter steps forward.

Frances bristles. Barnes looks on nervously: It's all becoming

unravelled again.

Frances is broiling. She stares at him. Under her steady

gaze, the snide smile gradually fades from his face.

He blanches. This hits home. Frances turns on her heel and

leaves.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

Frances rushes out, followed by Barnes and a few curious

partygoers. She is very upset. Tight. Holding it in. Barnes

pleads with her, tries to stop her, but she leaps in the car

and speeds off, spewing gravel over him. The partygoers salute

her with their drinks.

EXT. A CLIFFSIDE COCKTAIL LOUNGE - NIGHT

In the pale moonlight we SEE the dim outline of a poster

tacked to the outside wall. The highway disappears down to

the sea glittering dully in the distance. We HEAR the RISING

SOUND of an approaching car. Its headlights crest the hill,

illuminating the poster, showing a woman driving an open

car, seated beside the outline of a familiar mustached figure.

The poster reads, "When You're Riding Alone, You're Riding

with Hitler." The lights grow brighter, almost blinding. The

car, accelerating furiously, flashes by. Then we HEAR a

motorcycle start up. It emerges from the blackness and speeds

off in pursuit. A roadsign reads: "Dimout Zone."

Frances drives fast, tears running her face.

The MOTORCYCLE COP pulls up alongside and shouts, "Pull over!"

She hesitates. He waves insistently. Gradually she slows. He

gets off his bike and walks over, preparing the usual lecture.

He leans over the car and sees Frances, her hair wild and

tangled.

She switches her headlights back on.

She starts the car. The Cop, angry now, lunges in and grabs

the keys.

She leaps out of the car. The Cop turns off the car lights.

As Frances passes his motorcycle, she switches on its lights.

He runs after her, turning off the motorcycle lights on the

way. When he catches her, he grabs her arm. She struggles,

grabs the flashlight from his belt. She switches it on and

holds it high, its beam spearing wildly out to sea. He lunges

for it, knocks her down. They struggle. He rolls on top of

her, pinning both her arms with one hand... trying to handcuff

her. She writhes, knees him in the balls. She crawls away,

desperately clawing at loose stones. The Cop, angry now,

hurls her down again and manages to get the cuffs on. As

they dig into her wrists, she tries to bite him. The Cop,

winded from the battle, yanks her to her feet and drags her,

kicking and screaming, to his motorcycle. He pulls out his

radio mike.

FADE IN:

OMITTED

EXT. BEACH HOUSE BALCONY - DAY

CLOSE ON front page of the Los Angeles Times, October 1942.

The headlines read: "24 Jap Ships Sunk", "Errol Flynn Sex

Trial Delayed", "Frances Farmer Arrested on Drunk Driving

Charge -- Actress Gets $250 Fine and Six Months Probation."

CAMERA PULLS BACK to show several newspapers spread out on

the balcony of Frances' beach house. As the papers ruffle in

the wind, a little kitten swipes at them.

Frances sits in the sun writing in her diary, the same one

we saw at the opening of the film. A man's shoes COME INTO

VIEW.

She turns, surprised and pleased to see him.

He walks off into the kitchen. She puts her diary away.

Harry returns, sipping the drink.

She smiles.

She laughs.

Beat.

We see a thought come to him.

OMITTED

INT. SAN DIEGO BAR - NIGHT

Waterfront bar, full of SAILORS, WHORES, and HEAVY DRINKERS.

Hanging over the bar is San Diego paraphernalia.

Frances and Harry sit at a table. Heavy boozing has led to

philosophizing:

He grunts: what?

In the background, we SEE a DRUNKEN SAILOR lurching toward

their table.

The Sailor trips and falls across their table, spilling beer

on Frances and knocking things over.

The Sailor goes berserk, takes a swing at Frances. Harry

leaps in to protect her, starts to fight with the Sailor.

Frances joins in; she's not going to let anyone fight her

battles. The Sailor's BUDDY enters the fracas. Everyone's

getting hit. As the melee continues we:

EXT. FRANCES' BEACH HOUSE - DAY

A cab pulls up. Frances gets out. She looks weary and has a

bruise on her cheek. A car is parked in the driveway. She

frowns at it, shrugs, and carries her suitcase toward the

house.

INT. BEACH HOUSE - DAY

She enters with her bags, then drops them, stunned. The house

is stripped bare. A MAN holding a measuring tape comes out

of the bedroom.

Frances stares at him, dumbfounded.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAY

Frances on the phone. Boxes spread out, their contents strewn

over the floor, tables, etc. Frances is going through various

piles, again and again, looking for something...

She takes a long drink, sifts through a pile, then throws it

on the bed in disgust. We HEAR a voice on the phone.

She slams down the phone.

INT. STAGE - MOVIE SET - DAY

The crew is idle and the Director paces, muttering:

Frances, looking pretty hung-over, enters blithely.

The Director clenches his fists as though about to punch

her.

She walks to her dressing room as the Director explodes anew.

INT. FRANCES' DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Small, cramped; not like the earlier one we saw. The

Hairdresser -- whom we recognize as Tora, the woman who cut

Bebe's hair -- stands waiting, holding her brushes and looking

vexed. Frances enters.

Frances sits. Tora begins brushing her hair, yanking Frances'

head back with each stroke. Building tension...

Frances cries out and twists around suddenly. Tora is thrown

back: stumbling... falling... hitting her jaw against a chair.

She storms out. Tora is left moaning, holding her jaw.

INT. STAGE - MOVIE SET - DAY

Frances marches across it. Everyone stares.

When she reaches the exit door, she turns and bows to them

all, grandiloquently.

INT. FRANCES' HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

She's snoring in bed. Face down, spread-eagled. The light is

on. A whiskey bottle (three-quarters empty), a tumbler (three-

quarters full), and a bottle of pills sit on the night table.

The phone RINGS. She winces, groans, tries to open her eyes

then squeezes them together: hung over. Her arm flails out,

finds the light and turns it off.

The phone keeps RINGING. Her arm gropes for it.

A loud POUNDING at the door.

The POUNDING at the door becomes violent. Someone's breaking

it down.

The door splinters.

Men stream into the room. Back-lit from the hall they look

like monsters, phantoms. They're carrying sticks.

Frances screams and runs naked into the bathroom.

She slams the door on the advancing figures.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Frances leans her weight against the door.

It's too much for her. She's shoved back, falling to the

floor. The door flies open revealing THREE LARGE COPS. Leering

at her. Frances clutches at the shower curtain, trying to

cover herself.

OMITTED

INT. SANTA MONICA POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Frances is being led to the booking desk. All around her

Photographers snap her picture, and Reporters walk alongside

subjecting her to a never-ending barrage of questions. Frances

just smokes a cigarette and smiles grimly at the dour-faced

SERGEANT facing her.

The Photographers laugh.

Frances considers for a moment, then smiles matter-of-factly.

The Sergeant reddens. Frances laughs as the Photographers

snap their shots.

INT. WOMEN'S JAIL - CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

TWO MATRONS escort Frances to her cell. She shakes their

hands off her arms and enters. They slide the door shut.

Photographers press up to the bars. Frances calls after the

matrons.

Frances looks disgustedly at the Photographers and lies down

heavily on the cot.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Frances, looking disheveled, dazed, and over-tired from a

sleepless night in jail, stands alone before the JUDGE. Next

to the PROSECUTOR sits Tora, her jaw heavily bandaged, glaring

at Frances. The spectator's section is packed.

Suppressed laughter ripples through the courtroom.

Frances moves closer to the bench.

The courtroom erupts into surprised laughter.

Frances laughs triumphantly and spears the air with her

finger, pointing at the Judge.

The laughter grows. The Judge bangs his gavel.

The Judge pounds his gavel. Frances is about to say something

when suddenly the realization of what's happening hits her.

The Judge is leaving the bench. A REPORTER runs out of the

room.

The Judge ignores this.

The Judge closes his chambers door behind him. Frances turns

slowly. The Matrons are coming toward her.

She lunges at the Matrons, trying to get past them.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE COURTROOM - A ROW OF PHONE BOOTHS - DAY

The Reporter is phoning in his story. The hallway is

pandemonium.

In the next phone booth we SEE Harry listening to the

Reporter's spiel. He regards the confusion around him with

calm eyes.

EXT. THE COURTROOM DOORS - DAY

They burst open. The Matrons and Two Cops come out carrying

Frances. Reporters and Photographers rush past her.

She suddenly sees the phone booths. Her eyes fill with tears,

her shoulders slump forward and her lower lip begins to

tremble. She no longer struggles.

The Matron relaxes her grip and gives Frances a handkerchief.

Frances dabs at her eyes... wraps the kerchief around her

knuckles... and slugs the Matron in the jaw, sending her

sprawling. Frances runs to the phones.

Frances throws herself at the door of the booth. The Reporter

is delirious with joy: what a story!

Frances pounds at the door a few more times, then moves to

the next booth... into the arms of Harry.

Harry shakes his head. Before he can speak, Frances is grabbed

from behind and dragged toward the elevator.

Harry opens the door to his booth. The Reporter looks up at

him.

Harry says not a word, but punches the Reporter hard in the

face. The Reporter sags, out like a light. In the confusion,

no one has noticed a thing. Harry pulls the door shut.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Frances is sitting in a wooden chair. The venetian blinds

over the tall windows are almost completely closed. The room

is dim and terribly quiet. A WOMAN is murmuring something to

a kindly-looking JUDGE. Another MAN is standing beside her.

Frances can't quite make out the words.

He nods to the other Man who, together with the Woman, turn

away from the bench. As they pass in front of one of the

tall windows, Frances recognizes the Woman. It is Alma Styles.

She feels an arm slip around her shoulders and she stiffens.

Her mother's face appears by hers.

Two other WOMEN appear at either side of Frances and Lillian.

Lillian tenderly takes her daughter's face in her hands.

She kisses Frances on the forehead. Frances looks at the two

Women. They are smiling understandingly at Lillian. Frances

looks a little alarmed.

OMITTED

EXT. ENTRANCE DRIVE - DAY

A wood-panelled station wagon turns the corner of a tree-

lined road and heads up toward tall wrought-iron gates. On a

white-washed wall are black letters: "MEADOW WOOD CONVALESCENT

HOME". The Station wagon, a similar sign on its door, pulls

up. The gates swing slowly open, and it travels up a long

tree-lined driveway. As it goes by, we see Frances sitting

in the back seat between Lillian and one of the Women from

the previous scene.

The car heads up toward a large Spanish-style building set

back among some trees.

INT. A SMALL OFFICE - DAY

Frances sits in front of a desk nervously smoking a cigarette.

Lillian stands at a window looking out at a broad expanse of

well-manicured lawn ending at a row of oaks in the distance.

Lillian smiles enthusiastically at Frances, who stares

accusingly back: she's not falling for that.

An awkward moment of silence. Lillian fidgets, doesn't know

what to say. She is rescued when the door opens and DR.

SYMINGTON (early 30s, glasses, white coat and ingratiating

smile) enters. He holds his right hand out to Frances.

Frances stares at the proffered hand. Lillian steps in quickly

and takes it.

The Doctor winks at Frances and puts a hand on Lillian's

arm.

He smiles pleasantly. Lillian is obviously very put off by

the idea. She looks at Frances who stares unseeingly out the

window.

He goes to the door and opens it. Lillian is momentarily at

a loss, but she acquiesces. She bends down and tightly hugs

Frances, who pats her on the back a couple of times.

She waits for a reply and then, getting none, starts out the

door.

Lillian turns back expectantly.

Lillian looks to the Doctor, who nods sympathetically at

her.

She goes out and down the hall. The Doctor closes the door.

He reddens ever so slightly and looks away.

Frances' face begins to set in hard planes.

He stops as Frances rises and leans over his desk:

Symington stares at her. With a careful, almost scientific

gesture he moves thumb and forefinger over his lip, then

rubs the two fingers together. Yes, there is sweat.

He pushes a button on his desk and reaches for a folder.

Frances hasn't moved. She gazes at him evenly.

His eyes are very calm now, he smiles at her patronizingly.

INT. FRANCES' ROOM - DAY

Small, white, spartan and rather pleasant. Lillian is standing

by the window, testing the locks. She turns and goes to the

bed, fussing with the pillow, seeming very uncomfortable.

She pulls at the corners of the mattress.

The door opens and a tall, sullen-looking MATRON walks in.

Lillian doesn't pay much attention to her.

Something in her tone makes Lillian look up. The Matron closes

the door behind her and advances. Lillian assumes her full

height.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Frances is walking with a NURSE. They pass a variety of other

patients, some of whom look old or beaten but few of whom

seem overtly crazy.

The Nurse smiles confidentially at her.

They get to the door and HEAR Lillian's protesting voice:

They enter and SEE the Matron struggling to get Lillian's

coat away from her. Lillian pleads with Frances.

Frances bursts out laughing. The Matron releases Lillian and

comes for Frances.

INT. FRANCES' ROOM - DAY CLOSE-UP OF A HYPODERMIC NEEDLE

A little fluid squirts out the tip.

CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL Frances strapped down on a white

cot. The Nurse is holding the syringe while a THIN NURSE and

an ATTENDANT stand by.

Frances looks at her suspiciously, uncertain whether to

believe this, and turns toward the Nurse with the hypodermic.

This sounds more reasonable. Frances relaxes somewhat.

Frances does. The Attendant jams a rubber bar between her

teeth. Frances squirms, fights. The Attendant holds the bar

in place. And the Nurse pushes the plunger on the hypo.

Frances goes rigid. Her eyes widen, her back arches. With a

loud hoarse cry she starts to convulse. The SCREEN BEGINS TO

FADE into bright white light. She is unconscious. The SCREEN

IS NOW BLANK.

EXT. COURTYARD - MEADOW WOOD - DAY

Frances sits beside Lillian on a bench. Other patients with

ground privileges wander aimlessly about.

There is an open carpet bag at Lillian's feet and, in her

lap, a bundle of letters and telegrams that she's showing to

Frances. Frances seems restless.

She hands it to Frances, who lets it drop beside her on the

bench.

Frances sighs. She looks for something to divert her

attention.

INT. SYMINGTON'S OFFICE - DAY

Frances is alone in the room. The door is ajar. She's standing

over Symington's desk, which is empty except for a doodle

pad. The doodle she's looking at is extremely bizarre,

sadistic... After a moment, Symington ENTERS holding several

folders. Frances' manner changes very subtly.

Symington puts the folders in a drawer. All except Frances'.

Frances is wrapping and unwrapping a handkerchief around her

knuckles. Looks a little crazy. Symington's watching it. She

stops.

Frances stares at him. Stunned. Horrified.

Symington smiles patronizingly.

She tears open the door. Two huge ORDERLIES are waiting.

Frances tries to barrel past, but they easily restrain her.

Symington sits forward, his hands smoothing his hair.

Frances smiles sarcastically at him:

They haul her away.

EXT. MEADOW WOOD CONVALESCENT HOME - DAY

A few PATIENTS stroll about, visiting with relatives. Frances

lies on a chaise lounge. She's wearing a robe and dark

glasses, a big hat, and she seems to be sleeping. THE CAMERA

APPROACHES. Her hair is a mess, her skin splotchy. And

something is moving: her hand... one finger on one hand is

moving in agitated little bursts. We realize she is not

sleeping at all...

She looks to one side and sees him. Frowns. Takes off her

glasses and runs her fingers nervously through her hair.

EXT. MEADOW WOOD GROUNDS - DAY

Frances and Harry walking in a relatively secluded area. She

glances around continuously... suspiciously.

She breaks down and weeps on Harry's shoulder. Harry looks

around warily.

Harry nods, squeezes her arm firmly -- a warning -- as a

white-coated ATTENDANT APPROACHES. Frances straightens up.

The Attendant reaches them.

Frances starts to move off with the Attendant. For an instant

Harry -- and we -- wonder if she really is crazy.

She turns. The Attendant turns. She smiles sweetly, madly.

The Attendant is between her and Harry. We SEE her face turn

dark. She shoves the Attendant toward Harry and shouts:

She runs. The Attendant staggers toward Harry, who knocks

him down with two punches. ANOTHER ATTENDANT runs up. Harry

whips out an icepick and brandishes it at them:

The Attendants hold their ground. Harry runs after Frances.

EXT. GROVE OF TREES - DAY

Frances and Harry crash through bushes, come to a high wall.

Frances hugs him tightly, kisses him. He lifts her by the

waist, and she grabs the top of the wall and hauls herself

up. Harry joins her. We SEE, over the wall, a Lincoln Zephyr

waiting on a dirt road. Harry and Frances jump down as we

HEAR the Two Attendants burst through the underbrush and

haul themselves up. As their heads pop over the top of the

wall, they see the Lincoln disappearing down the road in a

cloud of dust...

INT. LINCOLN - DUSK - DAY

Harry, eyes bleary and shoulders hunched, tries to concentrate

on the road ahead. The RADIO DRONES quietly, a lazy saxophone

ballad. After a while, there's movement in the back seat and

Frances sits up. She yawns and stretches as Harry watches

her in the mirror.

Harry smiles. Frances climbs over the seat and starts to

fiddle with the radio.

Harry laughs.

They pass a poster: "BUY WAR BONDS!" Frances stares at it.

Harry looks at her quizzically.

Beat.

She rubs his neck and his attitude seems to soften.

She looks at him fondly, thoughtfully.

EXT. ROADHOUSE - NIGHT

The Lincoln is parked beside a few other cars.

INT. ROADHOUSE - NIGHT

Frances and Harry sit at a table cluttered with empty glasses.

The JUKEBOX PLAYS, a few COUPLES dance. Frances is gulping

down a tall Scotch.

He knocks back his drink.

THE JUKEBOX

A hand puts a nickel in, and we HEAR Bing Crosby singing

"Love Is So Terrific." We PAN across the dance floor, where

Harry and Frances are dancing.

Frances squeals with delight when she hears the song. She

holds Harry forcefully and starts to lead him around the

floor. Harry starts to sing along:

Around them an infection is spreading: all the women are

leading their men. For an instant it is magical, liberating...

She leans her head against his shoulder.

They are silent for a moment.

She laughs happily. He joins her, but his seems a little

forced.

She leans her head on his shoulder and holds him tight. They

dance...

OMITTED

EXT. FARMER HOUSE - SEATTLE - DAY

The Lincoln, Harry at the wheel, drives up and stops. Harry

shakes his head.

He laughs. We SEE Lillian come out onto the porch with

uncharacteristic trepidation.

She gets out, waves to him, and walks toward the house. Harry

drives off. As Frances reaches the top step, Lillian suddenly

opens her arms:

INT. FARMER HOUSE - DAY

Frances and Lillian enter. On the sofa sits Alma Styles.

Alma and Lillian seem slightly furtive. Caught in the act.

She bursts into tears. Frances takes her in her arms and

rocks her like a child.

EXT. LINCOLN - END OF FRANCES' STREET - DAY

Harry pulls up at a stop sign. He rubs his forehead wearily

as a car crosses the intersection. It stops dead in front of

him. Another pulls up alongside. Another behind. Harry thinks

about this. His hand slides down slowly under the seat. We

SEE the handle of his ice pick. Harry turns to smile at the

MAN in the next car. The Man flashes an FBI badge, points

revolver:

The FBI Man pulls the hammer back on the revolver. ANOTHER

MAN opens the passenger door.

OMITTED

INT. JUDGE'S CHAMBERS

Judge Hillier walking... out of the chamber and down a

corridor. His stride is long, his demeanor purposeful. The

corridor leads into a courtroom. Harry standing at attention.

We hear Hillier climb onto the bench and be introduced by

the court official. Harry stares up at the judge.

INT. FARMER HOUSE - DAY

Frances sits at the piano playing "You Are My Sunshine".

Lillian is lounging on the couch, leafing happily through

her scrapbook.

Frances' brows mesh.

Frances sighs and begins to play it. Lillian scrunches down

and begins to hum along.

She smiles warmly at Frances. Frances abruptly stops playing.

She gets up and Lillian rouses herself.

Frances goes down the hall for her coat. Lillian follows

part way.

Frances returns wearing the coat. Lillian half-blocking her

path.

Lillian nods, moves aside. As Frances heads for the door:

Lillian enters and re-establishes herself on the couch with

a happy smile. She begins to hum "Flow Gently Sweet Afton"

INT. FLEA-BAG HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

DERELICTS sleep on broken couches and armchairs. In a corner

by a pay phone Ernest Farmer sits at a rickety desk piled

high with briefs. Frances sits across from him. They've been

talking.

Frances rises from her chair, looking around the room to

hide her tears. Ernest rises too.

They look at each other across the desk for an uncomfortable

moment, then Frances slowly leaves. He looks sadly after

her.

EXT. FLEA-BAG HOTEL - DAY

Frances exits and starts across the road. Ernest comes to

the window to watch her leave. It is raining and the water

on the glass distorts his view.

OMITTED

INT. FARMER HOUSE - FRANCES' ROOM - DAY

Lillian is straightening up Frances' room, rearranging things

to suit herself. She hears the door slam downstairs.

She goes to hug her mother, but Lillian has changed. Frances'

news has chilled her.

She points to a stack of letters on the table.

Frances grabs her coat.

They're wrestling, Lillian trying to prevent her from leaving.

She grabs Lillian's wrists and twists them, throws her back.

Frances storms out. Lillian sits back in the chair, suddenly

looking very old. She massages her wrists...

INT. LARGE OFFICE - DAY

Dark. Blinds drawn. We SEE a single light with a green shade,

HEAR the soft coo of Lillian's voice. The CAMERA SHIFTS

gradually onto her earnest face.

DR. DOYLE, a psychiatrist, and the others are seated with

Judge Hillier around a table.

Doyle fills in a line on the printed form before him.

Alma holds up Lillian's bruised wrists as evidence.

Alma looks coolly at Lillian.

Hillier nods slightly, approvingly, toward Alma.

INT. DOWNTOWN SEATTLE BAR - NIGHT

It's late. Frances stands at the bar acting out a joke for a

small audience of devoted DRINKERS.

Behind them is a large window covered by a gauzy curtain. In

the street a police car cruises slowly past.

We SEE the police car again... It stops out front.

TWO COPS appear at the window, looking in.

Everyone laughs. A long moment of enjoyment. Then Frances

turns, looks out the window and sees the cops.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hillier behind the bench. Doyle sits at a table with Alma

Styles. A COURT RECORDER taps out his notes in an odd, jerky

style. (NOTE: This scene is INTERCUT, where appropriate,

with shots of FRANCES in a bare room, wearing a strait

jacket.)

She signs a paper which is passed to Hillier.

He bangs his gavel.

EXT. STEILACOOM - DAY

Huge, dark-red brick buildings with barred windows, loom out

of the fog and trees. A van pulls up to the front entrance.

Two MEN get out, open the back doors and assist Frances out.

She is strapped into a strait-jacket. She yells and struggles

violently but a piercing SCREAM stops her. She looks up at

the building.

From a top floor window, a thin, white hand protrudes from

the bars and waves "hello".

INT. STEILACOOM HALLWAY - DAY

Frances is dragged kicking and screaming down the shiny

linoleum-covered hallway. There are many patients here,

talking to imaginary birds, laughing at unheard jokes. A few

of them notice Frances, most do not. The two Orderlies arrive

at a door and throw it open. A bare 6'10' room is revealed

with a narrow cot and no windows. Frances is pushed inside

and the door locks shut with a resounding click.

INT. TREATMENT ROOM - DAY

A MEDICAL STUDENT wheels a small electrical machine up to a

table. On the table Frances is securely strapped down. TWO

DOCTORS grease Frances' temples and put two metal electrodes

on them. The electrodes are connected to the machine.

Doctor #2 nods and jams a rubber bar into Frances' mouth.

The Medical Student steps forward.

Doctor #1 shoots a silent query to Doctor #2.

The Medical Student pushes the button with great gravity.

Frances' body immediately begins to convulse. It seems as if

it will never stop.

INT. STEILACOOM - A WOMAN'S WARD - DAY

Beds three inches apart. Women patients lie on them in varying

stages of madness and decay. Some are bound to their beds

with coarse cloth strips. One bed is empty, the bonds chewed

through. We find Frances sitting on the floor staring at a

hissing radiator. Her lips are caked with blood. Her eyes

are glazed. She is dreaming. Or remembering...

FRANCES ACTING (HER MEMORY)

A scene from one of her movies or plays. Soundless. She looks

radiant, vivacious, alive...

INT. STEILACOOM - THE HYDRO-THERAPY ROOM - DAY

A NURSE ushers Frances and two ATTENDANTS into a sparse tiled

room with dilapidated plumbing and fungus growing between

the tiles. In the center are three steel baths with hammocks

suspended above them. The Attendants strap Frances into a

bath as Dr. Doyle enters.

The Attendants lower her into the empty tub.

The Doctor smiles sympathetically.

As he turns to leave, Frances laughs triumphantly. The two

Attendants lower her into the bath and begin to fill it with

ice-cold water.

They shove a rubber bit between her teeth. She immediately

spits it out and defiantly starts to sing in order to keep

her teeth from chattering.

INT. STEILACOOM - DINING HALL - DAY

Everyone eating gruel. A parade of lunatics. The edge of

incipient violence is palpable. Frances eats listlessly.

Others are playing with their food, devouring it ravenously,

fondling each other. Suddenly a call starts up at the far

end of the hall. Other voices join in. At first we don't

understand it, but gradually the words become clear:

The whole hall joins in. The Nurses make no effort to stop

it. Others at Frances' table smile at her, try to push her

to her feet. When they succeed, the hall breaks into applause

and a new chaotic chant:

The chant is quickly silenced by hushing sounds. Everyone is

watching Frances. She climbs up on her bench. Her eyes are

glazed, her face expressionless. This feels like some kind

of automatic behavior. She takes an exaggerated posture and

speaks in almost a whisper:

The hall breaks into riotous applause, catcalls, stomping.

Frances climbs down from her bench. That was the entire

performance.

EXT. STEILACOOM - NIGHT

Two dark FIGURES move stealthily along the shadow of the

main building. A little ways ahead, a door opens, sending a

shaft of light across the ground. The two Men duck back into

the shadows. Five young SOLDIERS EXIT, paying off and waving

goodbye to one of the Orderlies. The door closes. They head

off down the road laughing and joking together.

The two Men emerge from the shadows and approach the door.

They try the handle. It opens. The first one in is Harry,

followed by the other Man carrying a rolled-up bundle.

INT. STEILACOOM - NIGHT

We SEE Harry and the other Man, now wearing a white Doctor's

coat, walking quickly down a dim hallway. They come to a

large door with a barred window. The Man fiddles with a

keyring and unlocks the door. They enter. We HEAR the door

lock behind them.

INT. WARD - NIGHT

Just inside the door the Doctor flicks on a flashlight and

they walk down the center of the room. The beam of light

sweeps over women PATIENTS in their cots, crammed side-by-

side. Some are asleep, others stare blankly at the ceiling.

A few smile invitingly at the two Men, whispering obscenities.

The light falls on a bedraggled woman hunched over in a corner

between the wall and a cot. It is Frances. Harry goes to

her, putting his arms around her. She is very heavily sedated.

Tears spring to Harry's eyes.

Harry is on the verge of tears.

Harry holds her around the shoulders and straightens out her

arm. Frances starts to struggle and moan loudly.

Harry glares at the Doctor, but puts a hand over her mouth

and the Doctor injects her. Her arm is covered with sores.

The Doctor withdraws the hypo and massages her arm.

Other women in the ward cry out: "Take me! Take me!!"

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

The two Men come out and the Doctor quickly locks the door.

Frances' face appears at the tiny barred window. We can just

hear her:

Behind Frances we HEAR the Women screaming: "I love you,

Harry!" The Doctor takes Harry's arm and pulls him down the

corridor.

INT. WARD - NIGHT

Frances turns to face the women in their cots. Collects

herself. Looks repentant. She is practicing tomorrow's speech.

The others laugh. We realize that if Frances can handle this,

she can sail through it tomorrow. The catcalls gradually

diminish as she concludes her speech.

The room is silent now. A very odd moment. To their

astonishment, the other patients seem to believe her...

EXT. FARMER HOUSE - SUNNY DAY

The vegetable garden is overgrown, the paint peeling. The

house is in disrepair, but we can tell from the freshly-mowed

lawn that some effort has recently been made...

A car pulls up. Frances kisses Ernest on the cheek and gets

out. As he drives off, she walks into the yard and looks

around, heaves a sigh; she's home. Then Christmas lights

spring on over the porch. Lillian comes out grinning broadly,

followed by REPORTERS. Frances blanches.

INT. FARMER HOUSE - DAY

Frances sits on the couch next to Lillian. They're sipping

tea and answering questions. Frances is uncomfortable.

She touches it shyly. It's swept up in a continental style.

Lillian laughs.

EXT. FARMER HOUSE - NIGHT

The porch light goes out. Shadows pass over the curtained

windows. Across the street a match flares. Harry is leaning

against a tree. He lights a cigarette and settles back to

wait.

INT. FARMER HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Lillian walks from room to room turning off lights. Frances

is neatly stacking the dessert dishes on a tray. Very

domestic, out of character. She carries the tray into the

kitchen.

Lillian smiles warmly at her.

Lillian links her arm with Frances' and they go upstairs

together.

They hug each other.

Lillian waits until Frances has shut her door before closing

hers.

EXT. FARMER HOUSE - NIGHT

The front door opens and Frances, suitcase in hand, slips

out onto the porch. She eases the door shut behind her,

tiptoes down the steps and, without looking back, starts

down the road.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Frances rounds the corner, then sees him: Harry, standing by

his car, smiling.

She approaches him tentatively.

Long beat. She turns and stares at him sadly.

He nods slowly.

They hug. Together for an instant. Then she shivers as if

the contact were too much.

He nods, looks at her.

He turns and walks slowly to his car.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAWN

Barren desert. The middle of nowhere. A lone male HITCHHIKER,

poor, stands at a crossroads. A car coming the wrong direction

raises dust along the highway. It slows, stops, and lets

Frances out. She is now dressed in jeans and a workshirt.

She has a heavy tan.

She glances across at the Hitchhiker and nods casually. He

responds in kind. A relaxed silence follows. Two strangers

passing. His voice, when he speaks, is gentle, calm:

Beat.

She stops. She sees now that the car heading toward her is a

cop car. She averts her face... then tries to hide her

gesture.

Frances sighs as the cop car speeds away.

She's uncertain whether to trust him. Takes the plunge:

He laughs. She shivers slightly, pulls her clothes around

her. He takes out a small flask and offers, no strings:

She smiles, truly grateful:

Then she sees a ball of dust nearing... a car on his side.

The car stops. Its lights flashing. COPS jump out.

She does. She's pursued. The Hitchhiker makes an effort to

impede the Cops' progress, but is tossed aside. The Cops are

slowly, inevitably, gaining on her.

EXT. SMALL TOWN JAIL - DAY

Frances and Ernest walk out the door followed by a portly

SHERIFF. He watches them get in Ernest's car and drive off.

His expression says very clearly: I'm glad that's over with.

INT. CAR - DAY

Ernest's at the wheel, Frances at his side. Silence, then:

Ernest writhes slightly with discomfort.

We SEE them approaching a side road.

They are nearer the side road.

They pass the side road. It disappears behind them. All the

life seems to drain from Frances.

Frances buries her face in her hands.

INT. FARMER HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Lillian is sitting on the couch, waiting. We HEAR A CAR PULL

UP outside and stop. Doors slam. Steps come up the walk and

onto the porch. The door opens and Frances and Ernest enter.

Lillian rises to face her daughter.

Through the window we SEE a white van pull up outside.

The way she goes out that door we know she's never coming

back.

INT. STEILACOOM - VIOLENT WARD - NIGHT

The ward is a huge room packed with nearly naked women, their

hair cropped very short. The walls are corrugated tin nailed

to bare wood framing. The place looks like an enormous tool

shed. The SOUND OF GARBLED VOICES and SCREAMING never stops.

These are the forgotten ones... beyond hope. Everyone here

has lost any notion of what they might have once been. Their

faces are slack, only their eyes glow with an animal ferocity.

Some wander aimlessly about, unheeding of others who are

pushing, kicking and screaming at them. Many squat in the

dirt by the walls, mired in their own urine and excrement,

chanting wordlessly to themselves. Some appear lifeless,

their prone bodies shoved out of the way. Some women are

involved in violent sex with themselves or each other, some

in mindless fist-fights. In a far corner we SEE a group of

men in various military and medical uniforms, their backs to

us, facing the wall, grouped around something. We HEAR their

cheering and laughing and joking, slapping each other on the

back.

We SLOWLY MOVE CLOSER and can see over their shoulders the

object of their hilarity. It's Frances, lying naked and spread-

eagled on the floor. Four hospital ATTENDANTS pin her arms

and legs. A SOLDIER, his pants down around his ankles, is

squirming violently on top of her. Frances' eyes are open

but glazed, her face turned away from her attacker. She is

passive and unresisting. She is reciting to herself, over

and over.

Two of the SOLDIERS, waiting their turn, are smoking

cigarettes and chatting idly.

Frances keeps reciting as one rapist gets off. The Soldiers

cheer as another quickly takes his place.

EXT. STEILACOOM - DAY

A heavy snow is falling. From the corrugated-tin Violent

Ward, a thin white hand protrudes from a narrow window to

catch a snowflake.

As it opens and closes, capturing individual flakes, a VOICE

BEGINS TO SING "You Are My Sunshine...". We recognize Frances'

voice, still surprisingly strong and steady.

INT. STEILACOOM - TREATMENT ROOM - DAY

TWO NURSES discuss Frances' condition as we SEE, background,

that she is getting electroshock treatments from a pair of

doctors.

OMITTED

INT. STEILACOOM - HOLDING WARD - DAY

Frances, barely conscious, lies strapped to a bed. Doyle and

an ORDERLY approach her. Doyle nods toward her as if to say:

that one. He and the Orderly unstrap her.

She's untied. The Orderly helps her up onto a gurney.

She lies down. Doyle nods to the Orderly, who starts pushing

her.

She is wheeled out and down:

THE HALL

Past other patients, doctors, etc. We see some of this from

her point of view.

She goes through two swinging doors, down another hall... at

the end of which a man opens a door. She is pushed onto a:

STAGE

She is wheeled into a row... between two other patients. In

the background we HEAR a voice:

The lights are bright, on her and the other patients. We

cannot see, but we sense, an audience watching.

Frances stares up at a fan in the ceiling. It's moving round

and round. The voice drones on.

We now see vaguely that DR. HARLINGTON has moved to the

patient on the adjacent gurney.

Frances turns and stares mutely, without emotion, at what's

happening next to her: the leucotome (an ice-pick-like

instrument) is inserted into a woman's eye socket...

The leucotome is then shoved up into the brain and twisted.

Frances turns away and stares at the fan again. There is

something simple and pleasing about its rhythmic whirring...

We glimpse the leucotome being withdrawn.

Harlington's face moves vaguely into Frances' view.

He moves directly over Frances, his pleasant face obscuring

the fan. As the leucotome descends, we:

EXT. FARMER HOUSE - DAY

Total disrepair: peeling paint, broken steps, fallen

shingles... This house is easing slowly back to nature...

INT. FARMER HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Neglect is just as evident inside. Dust, faded rugs, torn

yellow curtains. Lillian sits on the couch staring out a

window. She has aged and looks tiny, frail, with no trace of

her old formidability. The scrapbook is open on her lap.

Ernest is hunched in a chair by the stone fireplace. FOUR

REPORTERS crouch on the floor, totally bored. Yesterday's

headlines are now old news.

Two Reporters rise and edge toward the door.

The last Reporter gets to his feet.

He follows the others out. Lillian climbs wearily to her

feet and goes to the window, looks out. Ernest stares into

the fire.

Ernest looks at her wearily, as if she is stark raving mad.

He knows damn well Frances isn't coming home...

FADE IN ON: A TELEVISION SCREEN against a dark background

The show is "This Is Your Life". We SEE a smiling RALPH

EDWARDS, reading from a large black book. Next to him stands

Frances. She has aged dramatically, but is still a very

handsome woman. She seems uncomfortable.

Throughout this, Frances' jaw works slowly back and forth,

not from anger, but in embarrassment and doubt.

We MOVE AWAY from the screen to see that the TV set is in

the living room of a comfortable, tastefully furnished home.

On the couch in front of the set sits Harry York. He still

looks athletic, young for his age. Tears stream down his

cheeks.

ON THE SCREEN Edwards has moved Frances over to a seating

area where various people from Frances' life are waiting,

smiling at her. We've never seen any of them before.

The curtains behind them open to reveal a car in a spotlight.

The audience applauds. Frances smiles guardedly.

Applause.

The audience applauds. Frances smiles wearily and accepts

congratulations.

EXT. ROOSEVELT HOTEL - HOLLYWOOD - DAY

A group of PEOPLE are coming down the front steps, Frances

among them. They all talk happily, Frances is silent but

smiling.

The people all excuse themselves, calling goodbye. Frances

waits by herself for a few moments, but soon begins to walk

away down the sidewalk.

She turns. Harry is leaning against the side of a building,

looking much as he did when they first met. But there is

very little light of recognition in Frances' eyes.

Harry is a little puzzled by her reaction.

They are both silent a long moment.

Harry is alarmed now.

She angrily bares her teeth; then just as suddenly she relaxes

and becomes lucid.

Beat.

She takes his hand as if to shake it.

Harry clasps hers tenderly.

She holds on like an old woman, stroking his hand. For an

instant she gets lost in time, just holding his hand. Then

she looks up.

It is as if she is able to express in words the last remnant

of her indomitable will... but the words bear no emotional

power.

He offers his arm. She takes it. All rather formal. They

stroll on together.

