FADE IN:

EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY

The quadrangle of Army buildings is quiet and deserted. A

broken-down taxi drives in at one corner and slowly makes its

way around the quadrangle. SUPERIMPOSED over shot is the

The taxi pulls up across the street from camera. A soldier

gets out, pulls two heavily loaded barracks bags after him.

He pays the driver, hoists the bags to his back, moves toward

camera. The taxi drives away slowly. The soldier walks toward

steps leading to a low building. He is PREWITT (called "PREW"

for short), 22 years old, well-built, good-looking. He wears

an enlisted man's uniform and on the sleeves are marks where

chevrons have been removed. He pauses, looks up over the

door. CAMERA PANS UP to sign which reads: ORDERLY ROOM - G

COMPANY, 219TH REGIMENT.

A small thin soldier in an undershirt and fatigue pants backs

out of the screen door and into shot. He is wielding a frayed

broom. This is PRIVATE ANGELO MAGGIO. He is violent and funny

and sour and friendly. He sees Prewitt's legs but not his

face, speaks as he sweeps a cloud of dust off the porch.

Maggio turns and stares at Prew, astonished.

Maggio notices the marks on the sleeves where the stripes

have been removed. Prew follows his glance.

Prew nods. Maggio jerks his head toward the sign.

Prew smiles slightly, starts toward door.

Prew puts down his barracks bags.

TRUCKING SHOT ALONG COMPANY STREET

Prew walks slowly down the raised porch alongside the street.

He takes the mouthpiece of a bugle from his pocket, jiggles

it idly, a habit of his. He comes to the Dayroom, glances

through the screen door, goes in.

INT. DAYROOM - DAY

The Dayroom has a pool table, ping-pong table, a radio, etc.

Moth-eaten, upholstered chairs line both walls. The place is

empty as Prew enters. He looks around casually, sees the pool

table in an alcove. He moves over to it, puts the bugle

mouthpiece in his pocket, picks a cue from the rack on the

wall. He switches on the light, chalks the cue.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT

The triangle of balls is already racked on the table. Prew

addresses the cue ball, shoots and breaks the rack solidly.

He watches the balls hurry around the table.

The voice is brawling, brash, vigorous. Prew turns slowly.

CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS to INCLUDE FIRST SERGEANT MILTON WARDEN,

almost at Prew's elbow. He is thirty-four, big and powerful,

has a neatly-trimmed moustache.

Warden goes out of the Dayroom. Prew puts up the cue and

follows him.

EXT. COMPANY STREET

as Prew and Warden walk along the porch, Warden a few paces

ahead. They go into the Orderly Room.

INT. ORDERLY ROOM - DAY

as Prew and Warden enter. Maggio is sweeping the room.

MAZZIOLI, a bespectacled, intellectual-looking Private First

Class, is at the clerk's desk, opening it, taking out papers,

etc. Prew sits on a bench as Warden goes over to Mazzioli.

Maggio has swept his way over to Prew. He stops sweeping now,

stares at the other man as if still incredulous.

In b.g., Warden has turned from Mazzioli and is looking at

Prew. Prew looks back coolly, answers Maggio thoughtfully.

Maggio wags his head, bends over to pick up wastepaper

basket.

Prewitt, Mazzioli and Maggio spring to attention. The screen

door bangs and CAPTAIN DANA HOLMES enters shot. He wears

cavalry boots and spurs. He is about forty, unsure of

himself, therefore always too certain with his men. He nods

pleasantly.

Holmes goes into his office. Warden jerks his thumb toward

the door. Prewitt goes into the office. Warden follows him.

INT. CAPTAIN'S OFFICE - DAY

Holmes is seated at his desk as Prewitt and Warden enter. A

placard on it reads: CAPTAIN HOLMES. A smaller desk nearby

has a placard' reading: 1ST SERGEANT WARDEN. Warden seats

himself at this desk. On the walls are framed photographs of

prizefighters as well as one of a large golden trophy. On

Holmes' desk is a small framed photograph of a very

attractive blonde woman. Prewitt comes to attention in front

of Holmes' desk.

ANGLE FEATURING WARDEN

Holmes cannot see Warden who is grinning at Prewitt with

unholy glee.

He studies Prew for a moment, sees Warden on the edge of his

chair, watching hawk-like.

Warden swings his chair around, absorbs himself in work at

his desk as if the Prew situation is too absurd to concern

himself with. Holmes speaks blandly, winningly.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT HOLMES

MEDIUM SHOT FEATURING PREW

CLOSE SHOT PREW

Prew's lips are drawn tight. He nods almost imperceptibly.

During this shot Maggio can be seen in b.g. through door to

Orderly Room. He pretends to be sweeping, but stops now and

then to listen.

Holmes waits hopefully for a moment, then realizes Prew is

not going to respond further. He stands. Prew snaps to

attention.

He goes out, crossing Warden's desk and knocking a wire

basket filled with papers on the floor. In a moment, the

sound of the screen door slamming is heard. Warden picks up

the papers.

Warden goes out to Orderly Room, Prew following.

INT. ORDERLY ROOM - DAY

as Prew and Warden enter and walk through. Maggio bobs his

head approvingly at Prew.

EXT. COMPANY STREET - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT WARDEN AND PREW

as they come out of the Orderly Room. Prew hoists his

barracks bags to his shoulders, balancing them delicately.

CAMERA TRUCKS with him and Warden as they walk down the

porch.

A convertible, top down, drives by and pulls up outside the

Orderly Room. KAREN HOLMES, a tall, lean blonde woman, gets

out. Her skirt hikes up a little as she goes up the stairs to

the Orderly Room. Warden and Prew stop walking and watch her.

Karen stops, glances at Warden momentarily, then goes into

the Orderly Room.

They resume walking.

They have reached a Dutch door, top half open. A sign over it

reads: SUPPLY ROOM.

MEDIUM SHOT SHOOTING INTO SUPPLY ROOM

SUPPLY SERGEANT LEVA is eating a candy bar with one hand and

leisurely typing up a form with the other. He is a foolish-

looking man, about thirty-five.

Prew walks off, toting the barracks bags. The bang of the

Orderly Room door is heard and Lava and Warden look in that

direction.

LONG SHOT KAREN HOLMES FROM WARDEN AND LEVA'S ANGLE

as she walks along porch toward them. She is at a

considerable distance. Karen is about thirty. She wears a

sweater and skirt. She is aware the men are studying her.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT WARDEN AND LEVA

watching Karen. Leva leans over the counter.

LONG SHOT KAREN FROM WARDEN AND LEVA'S POV

as she continues toward them. As much as a man can make out,

she is probably not wearing a brassiere. Warden's and Lava's

voices, loud at first, get softer and softer the nearer Karen

gets to camera. At end of the shot, as she is only a few

yards away, they are practically whispering.

Karen stops, a few paces from camera.

Lava watches, listens avidly but discreetly in b.g. During

the dialogue, Karen seems irritated by Warden, who looks at

her coolly, appraisingly, physically.

She makes slight move to go, pauses.

Karen laughs suddenly, loudly.

Karen turns and walks back up the porch toward her car.

Warden and Leva watch her. When she is out of earshot Leva

speaks.

INT. KAREN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT 22 Karen, in a negligee, is seated at a dressing

table, brushing her hair -- steadily, gracefully, enjoying

the sensual pleasure of it. Karen is a woman of moods and

tempers, spontaneous, quick to impulse. A car is heard

pulling up in the driveway, the motor stopping. Karen's brush

strokes become faster, rougher. The front door is heard

opening and Holmes' voice calling, "Karen." She does not

answer. Holmes enters. He seems to have had a few drinks.

Through the following, Karen continues brushing her hair.

CLOSE SHOT KAREN SHOOTING INTO MIRROR ON DRESSING TABLE

Karen laughs sharply, loudly, then stops suddenly as she

looks at herself in the mirror, sees the repugnance in her

face. She puts down the hairbrush, picks up a long comb.

They are both tense now. Holmes is out of the chair and

pacing. Karen combs her hair spasmodically.

He moves over to her.

He puts his hands on her shoulders. Karen shakes away, rises,

faces him.

Holmes looks at her sullenly, then exits to adjoining room,

closing the door behind him. There is a moment of silence,

then a sharp snap as Karen breaks the comb in two.

INT. DAYROOM - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT WARDEN

The room is fairly well filled with soldiers. The click of

pool balls is heard over shot. Warden is reading a

newspaper.. A column heading, conspicuous in shot, reads:

JAPS ADVANCE IN CHINA. Warden drops the paper on his lap,

looks toward pool table, squinting thoughtfully.

FULL SHOT AT POOL TABLE

Maggio, Prew and CHIEF CHOATE, a Corporal, are playing pool.

Choate is a full Choctaw Indian, a man of great bulk and

tolerance. He speaks in a tremendously deep bass voice. The

table on one side is surrounded by the prizefighters of G

Company. They are IRE GALOVITCH, an ape-like, bent-kneed man

weighing about two twenty, with a widow's peak almost to his

eyebrows; BALDY DHOM, chunky and tough, his head as bald as

an orange; TURP THORNHILL, a stringy, chinless Mississipian;

HENDERSON, a tall, hard Texan; CHAMP WILSON, wiry and good-

looking. They are all Sergeants except Wilson, who is a

Corporal. The men have been heckling Prew and are watching

with cold belligerence. Choate, bending over his cue, shoots

and misses.

Prew shoots, makes a brilliant shot.

Choate laughs deeply. Prew sizes up a new shot.

Prew doesn't respond. He bends over his cue again.

Prew has been growing more and more agitated, as much by an

inner turmoil as by the men. His control snaps suddenly.

The five men move off, file out of the Dayroom.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

His paper still on his lap. He has been watching. He wears a

faint smile of respect.

MEDIUM SHOT PHEW, MAGGIO, CHOATE

Prew chalks his cue, hands trembling, turns to Maggio.

INT. SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND CHOATE

In b.g. a few of the men are moving to and from the latrine

but most of them are in their bunks. Over shot the sound of a

bugle blowing Tattoo is heard. Lights are being extinguished

in various parts of the room. Prew and Choate are lying on

adjoining bunks, smoking. Choate's voice is almost linked to

his last speech of preceding scene.

In b. g. Warden and SERGEANT PETE (POP) KARELSEN come through

from the latrine. The latter is a grizzled, crumbled dog-

face, about fifty.

Warden stops beside Prew and Karelsen moves on, going in to a

small room off the main squadroom. Warden's big, powerful

body is covered only by a towel around his loins. He smiles

at Prew.

He moves off, goes into the room he shares with Karelsen.

The lights are almost all off and activity in the room has

ended.

The lights are all out now and the room is in darkness.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

TRUCKING SHOT PLATOON OF MEN

carrying rifles, marching at attention. Prew is FEATURED in

shot; a light smile of pleasure as he moves along. Choate,

bringing up the rear, is singing the Regimental Marching Song

in a wonderful basso. Dhom marches on one side of the

platoon, Galovitch on the other. Dhom calls out the "huts."

CLOSE SHOT FEET OF MEN MARCHING

They are in perfect unison.

CLOSE TRUCKING SHOT PREW

Prew frowns slightly. He hops once, changing stride, realizes

he is now out of step.

Prew hops again, changing step. He marches along. Dhom's

voice commands "Platoon -- Halt!" Prew and men around him

come to halt.

MEDIUM SHOT PLATOON

Prew steps to the front, still smiling faintly.

EXT. CINDER TRACK - DAY

Prew running around track, his rifle at high port. He wears a

slightly contemptuous smile. CORPORAL PALUSO sits on the

grass infield watching him.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT THE PLATOON

kneeling over their rifles, laid out on shelter halves. Prew

is FEATURED in shot. His shirt is wet and he is sweating

heavily, as if he has just come from the run around the

track. Henderson stands in front of the group, instructing.

The men start taking their rifles apart as fast as they can.

Henderson walks around watching them.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND MAGGIO

stripping rifles. Prew is efficient and brilliantly fast,

Maggio fumbling and slow. Maggio keeps looking over at Prew,

admiring his speed.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

as he strips the rifle. (This mechanical operation should be

interesting to audiences; a good man can field strip the

weapon in thirty or forty seconds.) Prew finishes the job and

CAMERA MOVES to CLOSE on shelter half where all the parts are

laid out.

Prew's hands start to work over rifle parts, putting them

together.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

CLOSE SHOT THE RIFLE

in Prew's hands, assembled, CAMERA PULLS BACK as Prew stands

up, holding the weapon. The rest of the men are still working

over their rifles, Maggio is staring up at Prew in awe.

Henderson grabs the rifle from Prew, turns his back to him,

pretending to squint along barrel.

CLOSE SHOT HENDERSON

looking along barrel. SHOT FEATURES his thumb as he flips the

rear sight to one side. Henderson turns around and ANGLE

WIDENS to include Prew. He throws the rifle at Prew, who

catches it, staggering back.

EXT. CINDER TRACK - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT PREW

running around track to sun, rifle held before him. The smile

is fainter but still there.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

GROUP SHOT BAYONET PRACTICE

The platoon is divided into teams of two. Thornhill is the

instructor. This is actual hand-to-hand training. Prew wields

his rifle, bayonet fixed, in expert thrusts. Maggio is

fighting in next lane. Thornhill walks behind Prew, trips him

quickly as he passes. Prew falls off balance. His opponent

smashes his rifle against Prew's, knocks it to the ground.

Prew whirls on Thornhill in protest.

Maggio, wielding his rifle madly, yells over.

EXT. CINDER TRACK - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND MAGGIO

toiling around track together, holding rifles.

EXT. COMPANY STREET - DAY

TRUCKING SHOT OUTSIDE SUPPLY ROOM

Maggio and Prew trudge wearily along the porch, rifles on

shoulders. Their sweaty uniforms are plastered to their

bodies.

As they come up to the Supply Room, Warden, neat and cool, is

leaning on the counter. He steps aside to let them pass,

beams at Prew.

Maggio gives Warden a dirty look. Prew's expression is

noncommittal. They carry their rifles into the Supply Room.

Leva comes up to the door as Warden turns to go back to the

Orderly Room. As he does, Karen's convertible comes down the

street. Warden stops, watches it.

LONG SHOT FROM WARDEN'S POV

as Karen drives by, turning her head slightly toward Warden.

There is the vaguest trace of i smile.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT FEATURING WARDEN

as he turns to watch the departing car.

CAMERA MOVES TO CLOSE SHOT

of Warden, still looking after the car, thinking.

INT. CAPTAIN'S OFFICE - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT WARDEN AND HOLMES

It is a gloomy, rainy day and the lights are on in the

office. Warden is at his desk, working. Holmes is buckling on

his trench coat. He wears a happy smile.

Warden carries some official papers to Holmes' desk.

Warden is looking directly at the picture of Karen on Holmes'

desk.

He turns aside as Holmes straightens up.

He claps Warden on the back fraternally.

Holmes goes out. Warden turns back to Holmes' desk. He is

still holding the papers in one hand. He looks at Karen's

picture, picks it up with his other hand, squints at it,

considering the chances very, very carefully.

EXT. BACK PORCH OF HOLMES' HOUSE - DAY

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

standing on the open porch, in the rain. He wears a GI

raincoat. He is squinting at the door with the same

expression he used looking at Karen's picture. He takes a

deep breath as if he were going off a high diving board, then

knocks briskly. A shadow moves across the room behind the

curtains. Then Karen opens the door. She is in shorts and a

blouse.

Warden opens the screen door and jumps in past the water

running off the eaves.

INT. SMALL PANTRY OFF KITCHEN - DAY

as Warden jumps in. He takes off his rain hat.

I am wet.

If you're looking for my husband,

he isn't here.

And if I'm not looking for him?

He still isn't here. If that does

you any good.

Well, I'm looking for him. Do you

know where he is?

I haven't the slightest idea.

Perhaps he's in town. I guess it

was `in town' the way you put it,

wasn't it? Or perhaps he's at the

Club. Having a drink.

I got some papers it's important

for him to sign. Today.

I'll try phoning him at the Club

for you.

I never like to disturb a man

drinking.

What is it you want, Sergeant?

I could use a drink myself right

now. Bad. Anyway, I got a faint

suspicion the Captain's `in town.'

Ain't you going to ask me in?

Karen finally smiles, faintly. She goes into the kitchen,

leaving the door open. Warden follows her.

INT. KITCHEN HOLMES HOUSE - DAY

The kitchen is small and undistinguished. Karen takes a

whisky bottle from a cabinet, pours a straight, stiff drink,

puts it on the sink. Warden puts the papers down and drinks.

Karen sits on a high kitchen stool.

He takes off his raincoat, drops it on a chair.

Karen suddenly, deliberately, rips the papers in half. Then

she tears them into bits and throws them into the

wastebasket. Warden appreciates the gesture, relaxes for the

first time. He grins widely.

Warden's control has begun to affect Karen's now. She is

losing her poise.

He moves close to Karen, is on the verge of embracing her.

Greatly tempted but greatly disturbed, she turns away. During

next she pours herself a drink, the bottle shaking in her

hand. Her tone is no longer brittle. It is bitter.

Karen turns to face him as he picks up his raincoat, is about

to put it on.

They stare squarely at each other, both puzzled and a little

afraid of their emotions. This is something neither had

counted on.

Karen turns, goes to the sink, puts the whisky bottle back in

the cabinet.

Karen is trying hard to regain her glassy composure. She is

unsmiling again.

Warden grins as he puts on his raincoat. He goes to the door

to the pantry, pauses there.

Karen leans back against the sink, watches him go out to the

pantry. A moment later the sound of the door is heard as he

leaves the house. She turns on the faucet, starts to rinse,

the glasses they have used. Suddenly she turns the faucet on

full force, watches it pound into the sink.

EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT HOLMES GALOVITCH THORNHILL WILSON DHOM HENDERSON

The men are grouped around Holmes. He is pressing hard to

pretend equanimity. The Sergeants appear somewhat baffled but

determined.

The men react to the phrase; The Treatment is obviously

reserved for very special, intractable cases. They consider

it silently for a moment or two.

The music of the forthcoming MONTAGE drowns Holmes' words as

he continues.

The MONTAGE consists of a continuous stream of SUPERIMPOSURES

depicting Prew's growing humiliation and exhaustion at the

hands of the non-corns. Mingling with the background shots

are VARIOUS ANGLES of CLOSEUPS of Prew. As the speed of the

sequence increases, the stubborn smile on his face gives way

to hurt, bitterness, anger... Over shots we occasionally hear

stray shouts of the non-corns as they belabor Prew, but for

the most part these and other dialogue are obliterated by

MUSIC. The MONTAGE can be selected and created from the

FLASHES ADDITIONAL ANGLES OF PRECEDING TRAINING SEQUENCES

FLASHES ADDITIONAL TRAINING SITUATIONS -- E.G. FIRING RANGE,

PATROL EXERCISES, GRENADE PRACTICE (IF NEEDED)

in all of which Prew excels.

FLASHES GALOVITCH WILSON DHOM THORNHILL HENDERSON

riding Prew, mocking him, grinning at him, thumbing him to

the track, etc. FEATURED is Galovitch, who takes particular

Joy in baiting Prew.

running around track, staggering despite a tremendous effort

not to show his fatigue.

with the platoon going through, crouched low, live ammunition

spattering around them. Prew, nearest camera, is lower than

any man in the line. Over shot we hear a snatch of Wilson's

Voice yelling at Prew to get lower.

CLOSE FLASH WILSON AND PREW

Wilson bawling Prew out, thumbing him to one side of obstacle

course.

chinning himself on bar setup near obstacle course; he is

near physical exhaustion.

OBSTACLE COURSE PREW

going through alone, on his belly in deep mud.

CLOSEUP PREW (CULMINATION OF SUPERIMPOSED CLOSEUPS AND END OF

coming HEAD-ON into camera as he bellies through the mud of

the obstacle course. Snatch of mingled voices of non-coms

yelling "Keep it downs", "Get that nose in the mud!", etc.

Prew is utterly spent. His face drops into the mud, which

splatters up, obscuring the screen.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

CLOSE SHOT SWIRLING DISHWATER IN SINK

MEDIUM SHOT PREW

bent over the sink, scraping, washing and rinsing cooking

pans and mixing basins. He hangs the soap bucket on the hot

faucet and turns it on full force. As he does, PRIVATE

WILLARD, a fat, whining cook, dumps an additional huge pile

of pans before him. Prew looks at them ruefully. Willard says

something to him with a "hustle up" gesture. The faucet

drowns the words.

MEDIUM SHOT ANOTHER PART OF KITCHEN PREW AT SINK IN B.G.

Men are working in the steady, helpless motion of the KP.

Waiters swing in and out of the entrances leading to the mess

halls, carrying large trays.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT SERGEANT STARK

The Mesa Sergeant, a tall, gaunt man, surveys the scene

possessively. Maggio, Dining Room Orderly today, wearing a

soiled white coat, flashes by to the mess hall, almost

dropping his loaded tray in his haste.

MEDIUM SHOT PRIVATE TREADWELL

A slow, lazy, heavy man, peeling potatoes. There is a large

kettle filled with dirty water in front of him in which the

potatoes are floating. Treadwell stabs at one with a long

fork, misses it. He stabs again, almost in slow motion,

misses again. He sees Stark glowering over him.

Stark walks off.

He is surprised and pleased as he spears a potato this time.

He raises it triumphantly like a caught fish.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND WILLARD

The faucet is still on and we cannot hear what Willard says

as he dumps more pans before Prew. However, he is obviously

complaining that Prew is slow. Prew, sweating and angry,

barks something back at him and turns the faucet off.

Stark, always alert to trouble, comes into shot. Willard sees

him and speaks with whining dignity, for Stark's benefit.

As Willard retires, Maggio pours through from the mass hall.

Screaming joyously, he shoves two empty platters in front of

him.

Nobody pays any attention but Prew, who smiles at him. Maggio

winks back.

Maggio passes camera, leaving the shot and disclosing Warden,

who has entered from the mess hall in his wake. He carries a

dish of eggs and sausage and is leaning against a pastry

table. He is grinning lovingly toward Prew. He strolls over

to Prew. He eats through following. The smile never leaves

his face, broadens as the scene progresses.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

working over the sink.

Prew stops working, turns toward Warden.

MEDIUM SHOT FEATURING KP'S, STARK, MAGGIO, WILLARD, TREADWELL

as something electric transmits itself and they all stop what

they are doing to look over toward Prew and Warden.

TWO SHOT WARDEN AND PREW

He pretends to turn away, then stops, turns back.

CLOSE SHOT PREW'S HAND

closing around a heavy mug in the sink.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW AND WARDEN

Warden looking at Prew's hand. Warden's grin broadens with

something more than sarcasm. He is 'impressed and pleased by

Prew's honest anger.

Warden deliberately turns his back and walks off. Prew looks

after him. CAMERA MOVES IN to FEATURE his hand on the mug. He

grasps it tighter, then lets it fall back into the soapy

water,

EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY

CLOSE SHOT PRIVATE FRIDAY CLARK

He is blowing the bugle, sounding Pay Call. The rays of a

blinding sun flash on its shiny surface.

INT. MESS HALL - DAY

The bugle is heard over shot. A line of spruced-up men

stretches through the mess hall. A blanket is spread over a

table and behind it sits Holmes, flanked by Warden and

Mazzioli. In front of Holmes is a pile of greenbacks and a

cigar box filled with silver. He is paying out the man at the

head of the line.

The man smiles, appreciating the whimsy, salutes, moves off.

Prew, next in line, steps up to the table.

He is crisp, sharp, expressionless. He holds out his hands

for fingernail inspection.

Holmes looks them over, then up at the perfect knot in his

tie. He stares at Prew as if trying to fathom him.

Holmes' hands clench. He seems about to fly into a rage when

he senses a motion at his side. He turns to see Warden

looking straight at him. Warden's face has the same

meaningfully expressionless look as Prew's. Holmes wilts

before it, turns to Mazzioli.

CAMERA MOVES IN to CLOSE SHOT of Holmes# hands laying money

out on blanket.

EXT. RIVER STREET, HONOLULU - NIGHT

Payday night. A gay, noisy jamboree. Soldiers, mostly in

civilian clothes, and uniformed sailors swarm down the

street. Taxi drivers arguing with their fares as they pull up

at bars. Filipinos padding in twos and threes.

EXT. NEW CONGRESS CLUB - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT AT ENTRANCE

Maggio and Prew, dressed in slacks and Aloha shirts, stand in

front of what looks like a renovated residence. They give

evidence of having already accomplished a little substantial

drinking. The sound of loud piano playing is heard from

within. A sign over the door reads: NEW CONGRESS CLUB - SOFT

DRINKS - DANCING - RECREATION - MEMBERS ONLY. The door opens

and MRS. KIPFER stands at the threshold. She is a

sophisticated-looking woman with upswept hair, wears an

evening gown with a corsage of orchids. The piano music,

louder with the opening of the door, continues through all of

the following. The pianist is hammering out "I Don't Want To

Set The World On Fire" (or a similar hit of 1941).

He barges past her through the door. Mrs. Kipfer frowns and

follows him. Prew shrugs and goes in after her.

INT. VESTIBULE NEW CONGRESS CLUB - NIGHT

as Prew enters behind Mrs. Kipfer. The vestibule has an old

South feeling of mustiness and respectability. Maggio is

handing some bills to ANNETTE, a young, brash-looking girl,

who sits behind a reception desk.

Maggio nods vigorously in agreement, then pushes through the

heavy curtains which separate the vestibule from the room

beyond. Mrs. Kipfer looks after him a little unhappily.

Mrs. Kipfer exits through the curtains. Annette takes a card

from file, picks up pen.

Prew grins, digs in his pocket for money.

INT. NEW CONGRESS CLUB - LARGE CLUB ROOM - NIGHT

Several rooms branch off from this main one. There are about

a dozen soldiers in civilian clothes -- and about a dozen

hostesses. Several couples are dancing. The man at the piano

is banging away, his music clashing cacophonically with a

jukebox record from an adjoining room. CAMERA PANS as Mrs.

Kipfer moves to and fro encouraging the men to enjoy

themselves. The New Congress is a sort of primitive U.S.O., a

place of well-worn merriment. It is not a house of

prostitution but the girls look available for goosing... all

but one we see at the end of the PAN. She sits alone on a

couch. This is LORENE. There is an innocent, child-like look

about her. Her hair is done demurely in a circular roll low

on her neck. She is about twenty-four. She is reading a

magazine, untouched by the din around her.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT SERGEANT "FATSO" JUDSON

pounding the piano as if he is trying to knock the keys out.

He has an enormous head and a hogshead chest. He resembles

Porky Pig. His dead eyes look like two beads of caviar spaced

far apart on a great white plate.

MEDIUM SHOT NEAR CURTAINS TO VESTIBULE

Maggio is attempting some serious dancing with SANDRA, a very

tall girl. Fatso's furious tempo and tune keep drowning the

langorous tango coming from the jukebox. Maggio keeps

switching his style as he tries to get out of the range of

the piano but cannot. He is very annoyed. He and Sandra dance

out of shot, as Prew and Annette enter from the vestibule.

CAMERA PANS them to a trio of girls on a couch.

The girls smile, ad-lib hellos. Prew is looking over the

girls' heads at someone in rear of room out of shot.

MEDIUM SHOT LORENE FROM PREW'S POV

As if she senses someone is staring at her, she looks up from

the magazine, smiles serenely across the room.

MEDIUM SHOT FEATURING PREW AND ANNETTE

as she reacts sourly to Prew's reaction to Lorene. He seems

transfixed.

Annette takes his arm, moves him toward two quite good-

looking girls talking to a soldier.

The girls greet him heartily but Prew is looking back over

his shoulder at Lorene. Annette plucks his sleeve with

haughty disdain.

She walks off. The other girls resume talking to the soldier.

Prew continues to gaze across the room.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT LORENE

smiling back. Her head tilts up slowly as if someone is

coming toward her. Prew comes into shot and stands before

her, tongue-tied. She pats the couch. Her voice is low-

pitched, poised.

Prew gestures with the membership card.

Lorene smiles her fatal smile at Prew's seriousness.

There is a commotion across the room. A group of man and

girls are surrounding the piano. Fatso has stopped playing

and a shouting argument is going on between him and Maggio.

Prew looks over, concerned.

A babble of voices drowns out Maggio's reply.

MEDIUM SHOT AT PIANO

where two men are holding Fatso and three girls are

restraining Maggio. The others are amused by the quarrel, but

Fatso and Maggio are deadly serious.

Maggio breaks away from the girls and rushes toward Patso but

Prew, stepping through the group, grabs him. Mrs. Kipfer

bustles into the melee.

MEDIUM SHOT AT SIDE OF ROOM

where Prew hauls Maggio away from the piano.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT FATSO JUDSON

settling down at the piano again. He glances over in

direction of Maggio with a mean smile. Then he starts to

hammer the keys viciously.

MEDIUM SHOT MAGGIO PEW SOLDIER

as the music starts, Maggio stiffens, turns as if to go back.

Prew holds tight, to his arm.

Sandra comes over, disengages Prew's arm from Maggio's, puts

her own around him.

He and Sandra start off toward an adjoining room. Prew

smiles, turns back toward Lorene. The smile fades.

MEDIUM SHOT FROM PREW'S POV

Lorene is looking at another soldier, on the couch beside

her, with her rapt, innocent expression.

TRACKING SHOT PREW

as he crosses room to Lorene, hurt and disappointed. CAMERA

HOLDS on MEDIUM SHOT as he comes up to her and the soldier, a

talkative man named BILL.

Prew sits down, disgruntled. Bill notes his expression.

Lorene is frowning now.

She and Bill rise. She smiles tremulously at him as she takes

his arm and they start off. She throws a severe glance over

her shoulder at Prew.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW

He settles lower in the couch, the picture of frustration and

hopelessness. He pulls a cigarette from his pocket and lights

it.

EXT. KUHIO PARK - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT PARK BENCH

Karen sits on the bench, her ankles crosses primly, very ill

at ease. There is Payday activity here also; amorous

strolling couples; men in ones and twos looking for pickups.

Several unattached men pass Karen, ogle her. She is about to

get up and leave when Warden comes into shot, stands over

her. His civilian suit is neat and well-cut. Both are

strained, awkward, antagonistic. Now that the step has been

taken they are not at all sure it was a clever one.

Warden's burst shatters the tension. Karen breaks into

laughter. After a moment, Warden joins in.

He takes her hand. They rise and walk away, backs to camera.

They merge with the other couples in the little park.

INT. LARGE CLUB ROOM - NEW CONGRESS - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT COUCH

Fatso's piano music o.s. Prew is slumped on the couch. He

stubs out the cigarette, which is almost burnt down. He sees

someone coming toward him, slowly raises his eyes. Lorene

comes into shot, looks down at him.

They walk away from camera, merging with the others in-the

room.

EXT. OCEAN AND BEACH - NIGHT

FULL SHOT WAVE

sweeping over camera, spray flying.

MEDIUM SHOT ON BEACH

A tiny beach set among rocks. The pale sand glows in the

moonlight. Warden, in a bathing suit, is lighting a fire

about ten yards from the water's edge. Karen is just stepping

out of her dress; her bathing suit is underneath. A couple of

GI blankets near the fire. Her teeth are beginning to chatter

in the chill of the night air; she raises her arms to the sky

longingly, happily.

He stands, moves to her. She laughs, turns and runs into the

water. He runs after her.

FULL SHOT WAVE

near shore, as Karen dives into it. Warden follows her. The

wave washes over them.

INT. NEW CONGRESS CLUB - MRS. KIPFER'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT DIVAN

CAMERA ANGLED so we see only back of the divan. We hear soft

chuckles from Prew and Lorene o.s., then silence for several

moments. CAMERA MOVES as we hear a few more low, intimate

laughs, then Prew and Lorene are disclosed on the couch,

their heads close together as if they have just kissed

pleasantly but not passionately. Mrs. Kipfer's living room is

on the order of the vestibule; it, too, has a faded lavender

feeling. A door leading to another room is half open in b.g.

A door leading to a hall is closed. Prew's arm is around

Lorene's shoulder; he is very relaxed, regards her with

something like wonder. Lorene is mellower, too, making no

effort now to be "the Princess." She speaks as if resuming a

conversation.

Lorene smiles.

There is a sound at the door and they turn towards it.

MEDIUM SHOT DOOR TO HALL

as it opens slowly and a disembodied arm pokes through, its

hand gripping the neck of a whisky bottle. After a moment,

Maggio's head follows the arm through the door. He is

grinning like an amateur conspirator.

as Maggio comes into the room.

There are glasses on a cupboard near the divan. Maggio sets

three of them up, starts to pour whisky into them.

Maggio stops short of the third glass. He takes a big gulp

from the first.

He comes back to the divan.

He goes out, closing door behind him. Suddenly the door opens

again and Maggio pops back in. He puts the whisky bottle on a

table next to the door.

He pops out again, the door closing after him. Prew's gaiety

dims with the reference to The Treatment. Lorene sees this.

Prew rises, goes to whisky bottle.

Prew doesn't answer. He pours a drink, gulps it.

He drops down on the divan beside her.

His dread of telling the tale crumbles before his

overwhelming need to tell it, to have someone understand.

There are tears on Prew's face. He turns away from Lorene.

ANOTHER ANGLE SHOOTING FROM BEHIND PREW

Lorene, very moved, goes to him, stands behind him, puts her

hand on his shoulder. Prew does not turn but his hand grasps

hers. CAMERA MOVES TO CLOSE SHOT of the hands.

EXT. OCEAN AND BEACH - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT NEAR SHORE

A wave sweeps by camera, Karen and Warden riding it into

shore. CAMERA PANS with them as they walk out of the water,

hand in hand. They stop at edge, as if by a mutual impulse.

He swings her to him and kisses her.

as they kiss. The embrace is impassioned. When their lips

separate, their arms remain around each other, holding tight

to something they find is more than sex alone.

as Karen and Warden kiss again, a tenderness in him not seen

before and which he normally takes great pains to hide.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT

as their lips separate again.

They are both disquieted by the quality of their reactions to

the kisses. The jump to banter is a quick defense.

CAMERA MOVES WITH them as they walk to the fire. Karen smiles

at him.

CAMERA HOLDS as they sit, beside the fire. Karen wraps one of

the blankets around her.

The defense has given way and there is no mirth in the

questions and answers now.

Karen flings off the blankets, snatches her dress, stands up,

raging. She speaks as she pulls the dress over her head,

wriggles into it.

She starts toward the rocks at the end of the beach, walking

fast, then almost running. Warden runs after her.

MEDIUM SHOT BEACH NEAR PATH UP ROCKS

as Warden catches up with Karen. He grasps her arm roughly,

hauls her down onto the sand. He stares at her bitterly,

waiting f or her to speak.

She speaks rapidly, pouring it out in bursts. For much of the

story her face is in shadow, as if a cloud is passing across

the moon.

ANOTHER ANGLE FEATURING WARDEN

reacting with fury toward Holmes, compassion for Karen.

Warden shakes his head, inarticulate with his rage and love.

Karen moves closer to him.

INT. DAYROOM - NIGHT

PAN SHOT AROUND ROOM

Over shot soft strumming guitars and two voices singing a

quiet blues. There are scattered groups,about fifteen men in

all -- playing pool, ping-pong, reading, writing letters,

talking. CAMERA REACHES PRIVATE SAL ANDERSON and Friday

Clark, playing the guitars and singing. Clark plays only

passably, but Anderson is highly accomplished, effortlessly

sounding off chord progressions in diminished minors. Friday,

the bugler, is about twenty-four, with shy, trusting eyes.

Anderson is the same age, also quiet, non-aggressive. CAMERA

CONTINUES PANNING, PASSES a soldier reading a newspaper who

shakes his head and mutters, "... ain't it terrible about Lou

Gehrig dyin...", then MOVES IN to HOLD on a group at a window

seat, bulling. Prew is stretched out wearily, looks as if

he's been through another recent dose of The Treatment.

Maggio perches in the frame of the window like an aggressive

robin. Treadwell slouches at the end of the seat. Pete

Karelsen is in a chair nearby, reading a magazine.

Karelsen hears his name, looks over.

MEDIUM SHOT KARELSEN

CAMERA AT ANGLE so we see he's reading a full-page

advertisement featuring a girl in a revealing negligee. He is

feeling sorry for him;elf.

He turns back sadly to study the figure of the girl.

MEDIUM SHOT FEATURING ANDERSON AND CLARK OTHERS IN B.G.

Anderson peels off a flourish as he and Clark end their song.

He strums aimlessly again. Prew and Treadwell come over to

listen, prop themselves on chairs. During following, several

others stroll over and a soldier writing at a desk nearby

stops, turns to listen.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

warmed by the friendliness of the music and the moment.

MEDIUM SHOT GROUP

as Anderson repeats a theme he has happened on. It has a

haunting melody.

Anderson repeats the melody.

The men wear pleased smiles, delighted by the idea of

possessing something quite rare and truly their own. Prew

flips his cigarette into a can.

There is a chorus of approval.

The soldier at the desk nods, and Prew takes his pencil and

paper. He writes down the words of the song as they are

composed during following.

He stops, stuck. Anderson plays the melody and Prew sings the

words to this point. Friday Clark chimes in suddenly.

They laugh. Anderson sings. Prew writes furiously.

Anderson plays a series of chords, then repeats the last two

lines as the whole group joins in.

INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY

Raucous, hammering music sweeps away the melancholy blues. On

the floor of the gym Dhom is punching the bag. In a corner of

the raised ring Ike Galovitch is skipping rope. In the center

of the ring Thornhill and Henderson are sparring. Holmes

hovers beside them, issuing instructions in a strident voice.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW

He is in fatigue clothes, on his knees, scrubbing the floor.

There is an expression of stubborn hate on his face. Above

his head in the shot are Galovitch's feet jumping the rope.

In b.g. of shot is Wilson, seated near ring.

A fine spray of spit accompanies the words and showers over

Prew but he keeps about his work.

MEDIUM SHOT IN RING

There are two water buckets near Galovitch. He skips near one

of them, kicks it. The bucket falls on its side and dirty

water spills over the ring and down onto Prew.

Prew gets to his feet. Galovitch resumes skipping rope.

Prew climbs into the ring, gets on his knees, starts to swab

up the canvas. He is nearly finished when Galovitch

"accidentally" kicks over the second bucket.

Prew suddenly stands, no longer able to contain his rage. He

throws his sponge and scrubbing brush on the ring floor.

Prew starts out of the ring. Holmes intercepts him.

Prew climbs out of the ring, Galovitch following him.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Par below in the shot are Prew, hiking, and Galovitch, riding

behind him on the bicycle. The dirt road is steep and the sun

pours down, steaming hot.

MOVING SHOT PREW AND GALOVITCH

Prew is hunched under the seventy-pound pack as he plods

along. He is sweat-soaked, puffing, dog-weary. Galovitch's

bicycle is just behind him; he runs the wheels up on Prew's

heels.

A jeep rounds a curve a couple of hundred yards above and

moves down the road. It slows its speed and pulls up when it

nears Prew and Galovitch.

The jeep is driven by an enlisted man. Sitting next to him is

MAJOR GENERAL SLATER. Galovitch hops off the bike and he and

Prew snap to attention. General Slater leans out of the

vehicle. He seems puzzled and interested by the odd sight of

the two men.

The General, still frowning slightly, nods. He signals his

driver to move on. The jeep starts down the road. Galovitch

gets on his bicycle. Prew starts hiking again.

INT. CAPTAIN'S OFFICE - DAY

Prew and Galovitch are standing in front of the Captain's

desk. Prew is at attention, the heavy pack on his back; his

face is drawn and tired; his clothes are plastered to him. He

has regained his old expressionless look. Warden has swung

his chair around and is surveying the scene. Holmes looks

Prew up and down, half-smiles.

Holmes' face sets; he jerks his head toward the window.

Prew about-faces and goes out. Galovitch follows.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT FEATURING WARDEN HOLMES IN B.G.

Warden watches Prew go out, then looks toward Holmes whose

back is to him. Disgust is reflected on his face.

MEDIUM SHOT WARDEN AND HOLMES

Holmes slams his fist on his desk.

Warden swings around to his own desk. He thinks for several

moments, tries to sound quite casual.

He looks over at Holmes, sees him scowling, weakening.

Holmes ponders the situation unhappily, rubs his hand over

his face,. shakes his head as if the whole thing is too much

for him.

INT. WARDEN'S ROOM OFF SQUAD ROCK - NIGHT

CLOSE SHOT WARDEN SHOOTING INTO SMALL MIRROR

He is trimming his moustache.

CAMERA PULLS BACK, REVEALING Karelsen across the room,

undressing tiredly, achingly. Warden is sharp and blustering,

using Karelsen as an escape valve. During following he goes

to his footlocker, opens it, takes out whisky bottle, drinks.

Karelsen is naked now except for a bath towel knotted around

his middle. He slips his feet into Japanese-style, wooden

clogs, starts slowly for the door.

INT. CHOY'S - NIGHT

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT OLD CHOY

An aged Chinese, at least seventy-five, OLD CHOY has a long

white beard and wears a black skull cap and an embroidered

robe. He is motionless, surveying the pandemonium which we

hear over shot: the sounds of men laughing, talking and

shouting blend with jukebox music blasting Chattanooga, Choo

Choo. YOUNG CHOP, Old Choy's son, passes; he is thirty, white-

aproned, bustling, Americanized. CAMERA PANS WITH him,

DISCLOSING the small beer-house; it has unpainted cement

walls and a cement floor; the only thing that might be called

decorative is the jukebox. The place is crowded with men from

Schofield, a raucous assemblage; everyone is drinking beer

and the smoke hangs in thick layers. At a table near the door

sit Prew, Maggio, Clark, Anderson, Treadwell and Mazzioli. At

a corner table behind a forest of beer bottles and cans are

Warden, Stark, Karelsen and Chief Choate.

GROUP SHOT WARDEN'S TABLE

MEDIUM SHOT PREW'S TABLE

Maggio, Anderson and Treadwell are comparing snapshots from

home, spreading them out on the table. Mazzioli is talking to

Prew with great earnestness.

Clark begins to play the bugle softly along with the jukebox

music, noodling an uninspired obligato.

Clark hits a sour note an the bugle.

In overwhelming, uncontrollable protest, Prew slaps the bugle

away from Clark's mouth. In one motion he wipes the

mouthpiece on his sleeve, raises it to his lips and blows his

own wild, violent obligato to the jukebox music.

FULL SHOT CHOY'S

as Prew plays on, the bugle's pure tone pealing through the

room. Everyone puts down his beer, stops talking and turns

toward Prew.

CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

reacting. He frowns, moved by the cry behind the music.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW'S TABLE FEATURING MAGGIO

as he watches and listens, an exultation for his friend

nakedly revealed on his face.

ANOTHER ANGLE PREW'S TABLE FEATURING PREW

Hitting an almost impossibly high note, he stops as suddenly

as he has begun. He has played perhaps fifteen seconds in

all. He puts the bugle down on the table, embarrassed now,

the violence gone, some of the wrath unloaded.

MEDIUM SHOT AT DOOR

The room is quiet for several moments, except for the

continuing jukebox music, which sounds pale and thin now.

Fatso Judson strolls in, stands at the door. Some of the men

see him, but no one greets him. Fatso threads his way between

tables as the room slowly begins to return to normal and the

men turn back to their beer.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW'S TABLE

as Fatso passes. He stops, leans over Anderson's shoulder to

look at the snapshots on the table. He points to one picture,

a pretty young girl of about fifteen, posing Hollywoodishly

in a bathing suit, cracks his knuckles loudly.

Fatso whistles. He picks up the photograph, stares at it,

whistles again.

He laughs complacently at his own wit, tosses the picture on

the table, starts to move on, Maggio rises, picks up the

heavy wooden stool he's been sitting on and smashes it down

on Fatso's head with all his strength,

as again the laughing and shouting in the room stops

abruptly. Fatso reels a little with the terrible blow but

does not go down.

With his last sentence, Fatso whips out a knife and snaps

open the blade. The blade is at least five inches long. It

glints evilly as he raises it. There is a concerted whisking

intake of breath from the room. Murder is clear on Fat sots

face.

MEDIUM SHOT NEAR PREW'S TABLE (EXCLUDING WARDEN)

Maggio, holding the stool high, backs up a few feet as Fatso

advances toward him. Men sprawl away from them.

There is a murmur of agreement from the crowd. A couple of

men are about to rise. Fatso whirls toward them.

MEDIUM SHOT OLD CHOY AND YOUNG CHOY

side by side. Old Choy watches, immobile, his slit eyes

almost closed. Young Choy is shaking with fright.

MEDIUM SHOT FATSO AND MAGGIO

Fatso turns toward Maggio, who circles back around the table

as the other stalks him.

Fatso has his knife poised at his shoulder, ready to strike.

Warden comes into shot suddenly. He brandishes a beer bottle

wildly, looks like an avenging spirit of authority.

Warden snatches another beer bottle from a table, now has one

in each hand. He steps between Fatso and Maggio.

He smashes the neck off one of the beer bottles, points the

wagged edge at Fatso, roars:

Fatso slowly lowers the knife to his waist, but keeps it

pointed towards Maggio and Warden. Warden deliberately turns

his back to Fatso, spits his words at Maggio.

Neither Fatso nor Maggio moves.

Maggio puts down the stool. Warden turns to Fatso.

Fatso drops the knife. It clatters on the floor. There is

another audible whoosh of breath from the room.

He drops the beer bottles on a nearby table, strides to his

own table. The room settles back, still hushed. Warden has

broken the mood of certain death, but Fatso, still facing

Maggio, bites off his words with sadistic, ominous venom.

He walks away, drops into a stool at the counter.

MEDIUM SHOT WARDEN'S TABLE

Warden stands beside the table, watching. He seems satisfied

as Fatso moves away from Maggio. Still standing, he raises

his half-filled bottle of beer, drinks.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW'S TABLE

Maggio drops onto the stool, sidles it over to the table. He

half-whispers to Prew.

Prew leans over and picks the knife off the floor.

In b.g. Warden puts down the beer bottle and stalks towards

the door. Maggio and Prew turn to watch him pass.

As if on impulse, Prew rises and follows Warden out.

EXT. CHOY'S - NIGHT

as Prew carves out. Choy's is on a wide road across from the

entrance to the Post. Prew looks around for Warden, sees him

off to one side. CAMERA MOVES WITH Prew as he goes over to

him.

CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

leaning against the building, undergoing a delayed reaction

to the fierce moment in Choy's. He is white-faced, sweating

heavily. He looks as if he's going to be sick.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

astonished yet appreciative that under Warden's confidence

and control in Choy's there has been a human frailty.

Prew holds out Fatso's knife. Warden is beginning to get

control of himself; he manages a weak smile.

Prew puts the knife in his pocket. They stare at one another

a few moments, each inarticulate, each wanting to express

some deep emotion of respect.

Warden studies Prew thoughtfully. Prew turns to go back into

Choy's.

Prew stops, turns back.

Prew stares at him for a second, incredulously, unable to

find his voice.

Though Prew is overjoyed he is somehow unable to say

"thanks"; Warden grins broadly at him.

He slaps Prew on the shoulder roughly.

Warden walks off across the street. Prew stares after him.

EXT. WAIKIKI BEACH - DAY

CLOSE SHOT PREW AND LORENE

Lorene is covering Prew with sand and has him almost

completely buried. Only his face remains uncovered. He is

griming up at her. She seems thoughtful.

She throws a towel over his face. He chuckles under it.

The chuckle from under the towel dies.

There is a sound as of strangling from under the towel.

Lorene whisks the towel away. Prew's face is comic in its

surprise and chagrin.

INT. COCKTAIL LOUNGE - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT AT BAR ALMA AND PREW

(NOTE: From this point on "ALMA" will be used instead of

"LORENE.")

A fashionable Waikiki night spot. An orchestra in b.g, is

playing "Someone's Rocking My Dream Boat." Alma and Prew are

seated at the bar. She is dressed modestly and becomingly,

might well be taken as a society girl. Prew is wearing a

civilian suit; he looks bound and choked in it.

She smiles ruefully, realizes her real name has rubbed off

some of the enchantment.

No, honest, I like it. Alma's a --

swell name. It was great you gettin

away today.

I told Mrs. Kipfer I was sick. But

I bet she doesn't believe it,

There's no tellin when I'll get

into town next. The Warden gave me

a break this time. But Holmes and

those others, they got me on the

edge. I just about went off the

deep end the other day.

You must hate the Army.

Hate the Army...?

Sure. Look what it's doing to you.

It's not the Army that's doing it.

It's Man. I love the Army.

Love it? Well, it sure doesn't love

you in return.

When you love something it doesn't

mean they got to love you in

return.

Yes, but a person can stand just so

much from something --

No! A man loves a thing, he's gotta

be grateful.

I left home when I was seventeen.

Both my folks was dead, then. I

bummed around. I got all sorts of

jobs. I rode the rods.

She frowns, not understanding the last word.

Prew nods. He takes the mouthpiece out of his pocket, shows

it to her.

Alma takes the mouthpiece, looks it over, seems unimpressed.

She still looks dubious, hands the mouthpiece back. He tries

desperately to communicate.

There is a boisterous shouting nearby.

They turn and ANGLE WIDENS to INCLUDE Maggio, who has just

come up to the bar. He is in uniform. Prew is pleased to see

him but also alarmed; there is something near-desperate under

Maggio's drunkenness.

Maggio shakes his head violently in the negative.

Prew gives him a cigarette. Maggio hops on an empty bar stool

a few places removed from Prew and Alma.

MEDIUM SHOT AT SIDE OF ROOM TWO MPs

watching Maggio, attracted by his voice and behavior.

MEDIUM SHOT AT BAR FEATURING MAGGIO

Maggio talks across others at the bar to Prew and Alma.

A tray on the bar contains olives, nuts and pretzels. Maggio

snatches up two olives, shakes them in his fist beside his

ear.

MEDIUM SHOT BARTENDER SEVERAL OTHERS AT BAR

laughing.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW AND ALMA

Prew is increasingly concerned for Maggio.

MEDIUM SHOT AT BAR FEATURING MAGGIO

finishing a long gulp of beer. He puts glass down on the bar,

hard.

He jumps off the bar stool suddenly, tears off his tie.

He throws tie on the bar, The Bartender starts to protest.

He is unbuttoning his shirt as he abruptly dashes away,

People around are laughing at him again.

MEDIUM SHOT ALMA AND PREW

as Prew watches Maggio rush out. He sees something else o.s,

which worries him.

LONG SHOT FROM PREW'S POV

The two MPs cross toward direction Maggio has taken. They are

obviously going after him.

MEDIUM SHOT ALMA AND PREW

Alma follows Prew's troubled look.

Prew glances at her gratefully, then slips off his stool. He

picks up Maggio's tie and shoes and hurries out after him.

EXT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN GROUNDS - NIGHT

Tall pale royal palms contrast with thick dark plants and

bushes. An ornamental lamppost alongside a walking path a

little distance away. Prew comes into shot cautiously,

carrying Maggio's tie and shoes. He moves quickly, bends

over. CAMERA PANS AND MOVES IN and we see it is Maggio's

shirt and trousers which Prew has discovered on the ground.

He looks at them wryly, picks them up, moves on.

ANGLE PREW IN F.G. AND LAMPPOST WITH BENCH NEAR IT IN B.G.

Prew, carrying Maggio's clothes, stops as he sees what looks

like a shadow lying across the bench.

The shadow does not move. Prew approaches the bench.

MEDIUM SHOT MAGGIO AND PREW

Maggio is stretched out on the bench, seems to be sleeping

blissfully. He is clothed only in his shorts. Despite

himself, Prew smiles. He shakes the reclining figure.

Maggio mumbles without opening his eyes or moving.

He throws the clothes on Maggio.

Prew pulls Maggio off the bench and starts to drag him across

the path away from the light.

The ominous sound of leggins brushing each other is heard,

not far away. Prew looks off.

LONG SHOT THROUGH BUSHES

The two MPs are on the street just outside the grounds. They

are still looking for Maggio, somewhat aimlessly now.

MEDIUM SHOT MAGGIO AND PREW

Prew whispers to Maggio as he pulls him to his feet.

Maggio pushes him away.

MEDIUM SHOT END OF PATH NEAR STREET

The two MPs came running onto the path, spot Maggio and Prew

about thirty yards away.

MEDIUM SHOT PEW AND MAGGIO

Maggio picks up his shoes, suddenly whips away from Prew and

runs toward the MPs.

ANOTHER ANGLE NEAR MPs

as they stop, surprised. Maggio is shouting, "Can't a man do

nothin?!" as he hurls first one shoe, then the other,

directly at the MPs. One MP is hit in the shoulder, staggers

back. Maggio dashes between him and the second MP, but the

latter reaches out and grabs him. Maggio wrenches loose but

instead of running, suddenly wades in, arms swinging wildly.

In a moment, he is hanging crab-like on the man's back. The

first MP charges Maggio. Maggio grabs the second MP's club

and hits the first MP over the head.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW

Horrified, he starts toward the fracas.

MEDIUM SHOT MAGGIO AND MPs IN F.G. PREW IN B.G.

The second MP has managed to get out from under Maggio. He

smashes his fist into Maggio's face as the latter continues

to wield the club. Maggio sees Prew coming toward them.

The first MP starts to intercept Prew. Maggio tackles him

around the knees and brings him to the ground.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT SECOND MP

Club gone, his partner on the ground, the second UP fishes

for his pistol, tugs to get it from the holster.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW IN F.G. MPs AND MAGGIO IN B.G.

Prew sees the second MP raise his pistol, point it toward

him. CAMERA PANS WITH him as he turns quickly and dives

headlong into bushes nearby.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

CAMERA MOVES WITH him close to ground as he knees and elbows

his way along deep into the bushes. He stops, breathing hard.

The sound of the MPs fighting with Maggio can be heard, the

ugly sound of fists and the uglier sound of clubs smashing

bone and flesh.

Maggio's voice stops suddenly. CAMERA MOVES TO CLOSEUP of

Prew on the ground, his face contorted. The voices of the MPs

are heard now, panting.

A convulsive sob escapes Prew as his head drops in the dirt.

INT. ORDERLY ROOM- DAY

MEDIUM SHOT PEEN WARDEN MAZZIOLI

Warden is pinning some notices on a bulletin board. Prew sits

on the bench against the wall, miserable, elbows on knees,

chin in hand. There is a quiet tenseness in the room. Warden

looks over at Prew, turns back to the bulletin board.

Mazzioli gets up from his desk, wanders aimlessly to a

window. The screen door slams and Leva enters, eating a candy

bar.

Lava sits on the bench beside Prew, shakes his head.

The others tense at the word "Stockade," glare at Leva as if

he had no right to mention it. Their fear of the place, now

that it is imminent even for another soldier, is shown on

their faces. There is a long pause.

There is another pause. Warden barks suddenly, fiercely, at

Leva.

Mumbling, Leva rises and goes out. Warden goes over to Prew.

Prew looks up, nods, rises. He is half-way to the door when

the phone at the Clerk's desk rings. Prew turns. Mazzioli

stares at the phone as if afraid to touch it. Warden goes

over, answers.

Warden puts down phone. He looks at the waiting men.

EXT. BARRACKS - DAY

Prew and a group of G Company men, including Sergeants Dhom,

Thornhill and Henderson, are on the steps and porch as a

Reconnaissance car pulls up and halts.

CLOSE SHOT RECONNAISSANCE CAR

Maggio sits between the driver and another MP, both armed.

(NOTE: These are not the same MPs with whom he fought.) The G

Company men cluster around the car, ad-libbing greetings,

kidding Maggio, bucking him up. Even the Sergeants join in

this; nobody likes to see a man on his way to the Stockade.

as the Driver gets out of the car and goes to pick up

Maggio's stacked barracks bag on the porch. Prew moves up

close to Maggio.

During last speech the Driver returns, dumps the barracks bag

in the car, and gets in. The motor starts. The men shout good-

byes.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

heartsick as he looks at Maggio.

as the Recon pulls out and Maggio's last hearty shout drifts

back.

EXT. STOCKADE GATE- DAY

as the Reconnaissance car drives through the chain-mesh gate.

In the distance is the Stockade, a building that looks

something like a country schoolhouse. Music sweeps up as the

gate clangs shut.

EXT. STOCKADE YARD - DAY

Maggio walking across the yard flanked by the tall MPs. He

looks around as if surveying the chances of escape. Music

rises.

EXT. STOCKADE BUILDING - DAY

as the MPs march Maggio up to a door and gesture him to enter

alone. He goes in.

INT. OFFICE OF SERGEANT OF THE GUARD - DAY

CAMERA SHOOTS from behind a man seated at a desk. Prominent

in shot is a wicked-looking chopped-off hoe handle lying on

the desk. Maggio enters, recognizes the man. He walks, up to

the desk, his face set in defiance. Music is rising in a

fearful crescendo. CAMERA PANS just enough to REVEAL desk

sign reading: "SERGEANT OF THE GUARD." The man stands up and

the music stops abruptly.

REVEALING Fatso Judson as the man, on his face the same

murderous expression as at Choy's. He cracks his fingers.

CLOSE SHOT MAGGIO

his eyes following a movement of Fatso's hand.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT FATSO

Eyes on Maggio, his hand gropes on the desk.

CLOSE SHOT FATSO'S HAND

as it finds and tightens around the hoe handle. The music

sweeps in abruptly.

EXT. CLEARING IN VALLEY - DAY (TWILIGHT)

CLOSE SHOT FLASH A POKER BEING DRIVEN INTO FIRE

Music of preceding shot segues into an ancient, savage

Hawaiian chant which continues through following.

CLOSE SHOT FLASH LONG-PRONGED FORK BEING DRIVEN INTO BELLY OF

WHOLE ROAST PIG

CLOSE SHOT FLASH LANG-BLADED CARVING KNIFE SLICING ROAST BEEF

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT STEAM RISING FROM BETWEEN HOT STONES OF

FULL SHOT LUAU

Shot covers the continuation of all the above activity. This

is a native luau - definitely not for tourists. Shot includes

long ditches, heated by red-hot stones and lined with layers

of banana leaves, containing pig, chicken, rock crabs,

fish... Pots of native stew... Bowls of exotic fruit... Peels

of raw cane... Working over the food are the natives, many of

the men stripped to the waist, the women arrayed in colorful

Hawaiian costumes.

LONG SHOT THROUGH BONFIRE HULA DANCERS

A group of male dancers swaying with the insistent beat of a

group of old Hawaiian instruments. This is far removed from

the night club Hula. This is a thing of swift, agile

angularity, primitive and powerful.

PAN SHOT SPECTATORS THROUGH BONFIRE

At end of PAN, CAMERA REVEALS Warden and Karen in the group.

They are the only whites in the group.

CLOSE SHOT KAREN

her face lit by the flames. She watches the dancing

breathlessly.

FLASHES TINY TOM TOM NOSE FLUTE GROUP OF MUSICIANS

The native instruments playing a thin, weird melody.

MEDIUM SHOT HULA DANCERS

The men laugh and grin as they dance, taunt and tease

somebody o.s.

MEDIUM SHOT SPECTATORS

They shout and laugh and squeal with delight as they watch.

It is Warden the dancers are teasing. Several of the dancers

break out of the group, dance over to Warden, continue to

prod him, apparently urging him to join them.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

protesting, joining in the laughter. Suddenly he kicks off

his shoes, rolls his slacks up to his knees. He snatches a

gardenia from the hair of a pretty Hawaiian girl next to him,

sticks it over his ear, jumps into the firelight and dances

with the others. The music comes up louder and faster as the

spectators and dancers roar.

GROUP SHOT DANCERS AND WARDEN

They are all laughing as they dance, but as Warden moves with

them it is apparent he is as good as any of them.

MEDIUM SHOT SPECTATORS

nodding, pointing at Warden, their hilarious laughter fading

to delighted smiles.

CLOSE SHOT KAREN

astonished and thrilled at Warden's ability.

MEDIUM SHOT WARDEN

His laughter now also diminished to a happy grin as he

dances. In all he dances about thirty seconds. Then he breaks

out of the group and runs over to Karen.

GROUP SHOT FEATURING KAREN AND WARDEN

as the spectators and dancers shout their applause. Warden

comes up to Karen and puts the gardenia in her hair. Karen is

glowing, tingling.

She flings her arms around him passionately. The onlookers

howl with approval and merriment. Between Karen and Warden

and camera, an enormously fat Hawaiian woman pours water on

the stones in one of the trench-ovens. A cloud of steam

rises, hiding them.

EXT. CLIFF ROAD - DAY (TWILIGHT)

LANG SHOT VALLEY

SHOOTING DOWN a thousand feet into Palolo Valley. Bonfires

and smoke rising from the floor of the valley.

The thinnest carry of the ancient Hawaiian music. CAMERA PANS

from precipice and INCLUDES Prew and Alma as they trudge into

shot, climbing up the steep cliff road.

TRACKING SHOT PREW AND ALMA

holding hands as they walk.

Alma, fairly winded from the climb, smiles but doesn't

answer.

CAMERA HOLDS as they walk on around a bend in the road.

EXT. ALMA'S HOUSE

The small house is perched precariously on the very edge of

the cliff. Alma and Prew come around the bend, come up to the

door, Prew marvelling at the house.

She hands Prew her key. As he is unlocking the door:

Prew swings open the door and they go in.

INT. ALMA'S HOUSE LIVING ROOM - DAY (TWILIGHT)

Prew stops on the threshold, stares at the room in happy

amazement. It is large, smartly furnished. In the rear, glass

doors lead to a porch. One of the panelled walls is filled

with bookshelves, floor to ceiling. The bookshelves are

filled with books. A hearty feminine voice calls "Hi!" from

the kitchen, and as Prew and Alma come into the room,

GORGETTE enters from the kitchen. She is a very tall, very

gay, good-looking girl.

Prew grins, can't keep his eyes off the astonishing books.

Gorgette follows his glance.

She giggles and goes off to the bedroom.

Alma smiles, presses him into a chair.

She starts oft to kitchen.

She turns.

EXT. CLEARING IN VALLEY - NIGHT

SHOOTING through smoke rising from one of the trench-ovens.

As it clears we see the enormous Hawaiian woman and one or

two others cleaning up and putting out the remnants of the

fires. The merrymakers and dancers have gone; the luau is

over. In b.g., quite alone, are Warden and Karen, sitting on

the trunk of a fallen palm tree.

MEDIUM SHOT KAREN AND WARDEN

The abandoned gaiety of the earlier scene gone. They survey

the emptiness. The fat Hawaiian woman comes near, rakes ashes

over one of the dying fires. She speaks to Warden in

Hawaiian. He answers her in the native tongue. The fat woman

stares, shrugs, goes off.

Warden puts his arm around her tenderly.

He rises, paces a moment.

Warden looks at her apprehensively.

CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

He sits, thinks it over unhappily.

He stops abruptly.

They are silent for several moments.

Warden rises and paces again. Suddenly he stops, turns, looks

down at Karen, speaks in the same gloomy tone.

A happy smile creeps over Karen's face. Despite himself, he

begins to smile also.

EXT. PORCH OF ALMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The porch is at the rear of the house, leading off from the

living room. It is on the very edge of the cliff. Prew and

Alma are dancing to the music of a portable victrola. It is

playing "Why Don't We Do This More Often?" A table still

contains the dinner plates. Prew's expression holds the

wonder of a child at a magic show. He misses a step,

stumbles.

The record ends and Alma goes to change it. CAMERA FOLLOWS

Prew to the edge of the porch as he looks out over the view.

LONG SHOT VIEW PROM PREW'S POV

A magnificent panorama -- strings of lights in the valley and

across on St. Louis Heights -- in the far distance the neon

of Waikiki.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW

working with his thoughts, afraid to broach them. He lights a

cigarette, his fingers trembling.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT ALMA

looking through records for a new choice. She speaks quite

conversationally, as if offered a pleasant compliment.

She puts on a record -- "It All Comes Back To Me Now." It

plays throughout the sequence.

as Alma comes over to Prew.

She stares at him, amazed, a touch angry.

There is a silence. Alma is honestly distraught.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

Alma is deeply moved. She speaks gravely, sincerely, not at

all immodestly.

Prew -- it's true we love each

other now. But back in America, it

might be different... We might not

even want each other...

Okay. But that ain't the real

reason.

All right. It's not.

What's the real reason you won't

marry me?

I won't marry you because I don't

want to be the wife of a soldier.

Well, that's the top I could ever

do for you --

Because nobody's going to stop

me from my plan. Nobody. Nothing.

Because want to be proper.

Proper?

Yes, proper. Respectable. Secure.

In a year I'll have enough money

saved. I'm going back to my home

town in Oregon and I'm going to

build a new home for my mother and

myself and join the country club

and take up golf. And then I'll

meet the proper, man with the

proper position. And I'll be a

proper wife who can keep a proper

home and raise proper children. And

I will be happy because when you

are proper you are safe.

The victrola record ends. Alma turns away from Prew and goes

to the victrola. Now that shots had her say with such

certainty, she deflates. Except for the fact that she looks

like a girl who never cries, she looks as if she might cry.

She lifts the record off the turntable.

Alma puts the same record on again. Prew looks out over the

beautiful view.

INT. KITCHEN HOLMES HOUSE - DAY

CLOSE SHOT HOLMES

MEDIUM SHOT HOLMES AND KAREN

at breakfast in a nook off the kitchen. Holmes is a mixture

of petulance, anger and frustration. He doesn't touch his

food, but occasionally takes a sip of coffee.

She applies herself to her food, anxious to drop the matter.

Karen stiffens. She struggles to maintain her self-

possession. She manages it, keeps outwardly calm through the

scene.

Her attitude makes Holmes progressively sorrier for himself.

CAMERA MOVES with him as during following he rises, goes to

stove, pours himself another cup of coffee. He spills a

little and the liquid sizzles on the burner.

CAMERA MOVES with him as he returns to the table, decides to

try another tack.

She finishes the last of her food, stands.

Holmes catches her wrist, stops her.

She disengages her wrist.

She goes to door to pantry, pauses there.

She goes out to pantry. We hear the sound of the door to rear

porch opening and closing.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT HOLMES

wretched, completely at a loss. He stares into space, then

looks down at his food, picks up a fork and ruefully begins

to eat.

EXT. BARRACKS - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT LAWN

Prew, on hands and knees, is on a weeding detail with three

other men, one of them Sal Anderson. Another is PRIVATE NAIR,

a tousle-headed, sentimental man we have not seen before.

Sergeant Thornhill, in charge of the detail, lolls on the

ground, his head propped against a tree, reading a comic

book. Prew works his way over to Nair.

Nair nods, tells his tale in half-humorous, half-reverent

fashion.

Prew's face has been growing in fury. He pulls up a clump of

sod, throws it down with all his might.

A shadow falls across the grass in front of Prew.

SHOT GALOVITCH FROM PREW'S POV

CAMERA SHOOTING UP from near the ground, the ANGLE

EXAGGERATING Galavitch's ungainly, ape-like figure. He looks

down at Prew, full of venom.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW FROM GALOVITCHE'S POV

Prew is at the breaking point. Controlling himself, he weeds

around Galovitch's shadow. It moves in front of Prew again.

MEDIUM SHOT GROUP

The other men have stopped weeding, are looking over at Prew

and Galovitch. Thornhill, in b.g., puts down the comic book

and comes over to them during following.

He steps on Prew's hand. As Prew jerks away from the heavy

shoe Galovitch hauls him up by his fatigue shirt. Thornhill

steps between them.

Prew shoves Thornhill aside, cold decision in his eyes. He

starts unbuttoning his shirt.

Galovitch rips off his shirt, bursting some of the buttons as

he does. Stripped to the waist, his whole appearance seems to

change; he looks as he did in the ring, a hard-muscled prize

fighter.

Prew is barely able to get out of his shirt before Galovitch

charges him.

VARIOUS ANGLES PREW AND GALOVITCH AND SPECTATORS

During following men run from across the quadrangle and from

out of the barracks to watch the affair, form a circle around

the fighters. Prew is a skillful boxer, moving around

Galovitch quickly and cleverly. Galovitch is more lumbering

but not awkward. His heavy blows stagger Prew several times.

Prew drives his attack at his opponent's body. He never

throws a punch at the other's head.

The other men around shout similar advice.

CLOSE SHOT GALOVITCH

puzzled by Prew's concentration on his body and by the shouts

of the men. He seems to be wondering if Prew is pulling a

trick.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

A fear, not born of cowardice, is reflected on Prew's face as

he sets himself, stares at Galovitch. He seems haunted by the

memory of Dixie Wells.

CLOSEUP GALOVITCH'S EYES

flinching without being hit. He seems mesmerized by the

other's eyes.

CLOSEUP GALOVITCH'S EYES

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND GALOVITCH

fighting. Galovitch draws blood from a cut over Prew's eye.

He is getting the better of the battle. In b.g. Thornhill

breaks out of the crowd and runs across the quadrangle.

MEDIUM SHOT BALDY DHOM AND SPECTATOR

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND GALOVITCH

as Galovitch batters Prew back against the crowd. A right to

the temple sends him to his knees. He shakes his head a

moment, gets up and goes into a clinch.

LONG SHOT BARRACKS WINDOWS ON UPPER FLOORS

The windows are crowded with men watching the fight.

INT. SQUAD ROOM - DAY

LONG SHOT OUT WINDOW To FRONT OF BARRACKS

SHOOTING OVER heads of men watching, out to Prew and

Galovitch on the ground. Dispassionate, professional ad-libs

from the men: why does Prew continue his attack to the body

only, a good little man and a good big man, etc.

INT. CAPTAIN'S OFFICE - DAY

SHOT WARDEN AND HOLMES FEATURING WARDEN

Warden is at his desk filling out an application blank.

Holmes is glancing over his shoulder..

INSERT: OFFICER EXTENSION COURSE APPLICATION BLANK

Warden's hand in shot filling out answers to sex, age, race,

etc.

BACK TO SCENE:

Holmes waits for thanks.

The screen door in the Orderly Room bangs. Thornhill runs

into the office, breathless. He comes to a shaking attention

as he sees Holmes.

A pleased look crosses Holmes' face. Warden jumps up, starts

for door. Holmes catches his arm.

Holmes goes out. Thornhill follows, turns at the door.

Thornhill goes. The screen door in the Orderly Room bangs.

Warden walks to his desk, stares down at the application

form, picks it up. He carries it over to Holmes' desk. He

looks at the picture of Karen on the desk.

CLOSE SHOT PHOTOGRAPH OF KAREN

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

He stares at the picture, then looks at the application

blank. Then he looks down at the chevrons on his arm. He rubs

his hand over the chevrons gently, fondly. He looks at the

application blank again very thoughtfully.

EXT. BARRACKS - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND GALOVITCH ON LAWN

A continuation of the fight. Prew is tiring, his face is cut

and bleeding and there is a welt under one eye. Galovitch is

unmarked but grunting now from Prew's constant jabs at his

stomach. He seems perplexed, as before, by his opponent+s

tactics.

MEDIUM SHOT SPECTATORS

FEATURING the non-"ath-a-leets" of G Company, including

Anderson, Clark and Treadwell. Ad-libbed shouts of "In the

face, Prew! In the face!"

FEATURING the "ath-a-loots," including Dhom, Wilson and

Henderson. They are watching quietly, nodding with approval

as Prew feints, then darts several punches into Galovitch's

ribs, It almost seems as if they are admiring Prew's courage,

inwardly rooting for him. Holmes enters the group, Thornhill

tagging after him. Holmes stops and watches the fight. There

is a look of satisfaction on his face.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND GALOVITCH

The fight continuing.

near rear of crowd. An officer, walking across the lawn, is

attracted by the noise. He steps into the crowd. This is

COLONEL WILLIAMS. He wears the insignia of the Inspector

General's Department. He watches the fight, is about to step

through to break it up when he sees Holmes. He stops, watches

Holmes' reactions.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND GALOVITCH

Prew, backed up against the crowd, trips over somebody's

feet. He falls without being hit. Galovitch kicks at him and

Prew rolls away. The crowd murmurs angrily. Sergeant Stark

steps out into the open circle, faces Galovitch.

Approving shouts from the crowd. Stark steps back. Ike waits

for Prew to get up.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW

looking up at Galovitch.

CLOSEUP GALOVITCH SHOOTING UP FROM PREW'S POV

CLOSEUP GALOVITCH'S EYES

His eyes narrow, harden as if his inner struggle has been

resolved.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND GALOVITCH

Prew gets to his feet. As Galovitch comes to him, Prew feints

for the stomach, then throws a hard right to Galovitch's

face. It hits him flush on the nose. Blood spurts. The crowd

roars.

Galovitch, surprised and hurt, throws up his hands. Prew

drives both fists to his solar plexus. Galovitch drops his

guard. Prew smashes him in the face and Adam's apple.

Galovitch falls to his knees, hawking and choking.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND GALOVITCH

The whole nature of the fight has changed. Galovitch, hurt

and reeling, rushes Prew, bull-like, head down, defense wide

open. Prew dodges easily, slamming hard with rights and lefts

to the head.

Holmes, seeing Prew is now clearly in command, steps out of

the crowd and up to the two fighters.

There is a look of relief on the faces of both Galovitch and

Prew as they stop fighting.

A laugh from the crowd.

Anderson steps into the circle.

Holmes reacts, momentarily at a loss. He turns to Thornhill.

Thornhill steps into the circle, nods toward Anderson.

From the crowd step Sergeants Dhom, Wilson and Henderson.

They face Holmes and Galovitch implacably.

Wilson nods. There is a murmur of agreement from the crowd.

Holmes looks at his fighters, rocked by this betrayal. They

stare back at him.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT COLONEL WILLIAMS

Still near the rear of the crowd, he watches the scene with

much interest.

Holmes pulls himself together, turns to the crowd.

He walks off. He does not see Colonel Williams. Galovitch

moves off toward the barracks. Wilson, Henderson and

Thornhill remain grouped around Prew.

The non-coms walk off, Prew stares after them.

EXT. CHOY'S - NIGHT

LONG SHOT ACROSS ROAD PREW CLARK ANDERSON

Sounds of gaiety from the beerhouse mingle with the mournful

twang of guitars being played by Clark and Anderson. CAMERA

MOVES SLOWLY toward the trio until the beerhouse noises are

low. The men are surrounded by many empty beer bottles.

The guitars finish the stanza with a flourish as CAMERA HOLDS

on MEDIUM SHOT. The men chuckle.

The three laugh, sing in unison.

MEDIUM SHOT NEAR ENTRANCE TO CHOY'S

The music from across the road almost lost in the laughter

and shouts from the beerhouse. Warden comes out, wobbles a

bit. He has One On. He cups his hand over his ear, straining

to hear the singing. He stumbles into Choate, coming along

the sidewalk.

But Choate has gone into Choy's. CAMERA RETREATS with Warden

as he wanders to the road, still trying to locate the

singing. Half-way across the road he unceremoniously sits

down, crosses his knees Buddha-wise. Here the singing is more

audible. He listens contentedly.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW ANDERSON CLARK

Anderson, as usual, finishes the stanza with a brilliant

display on the guitar. Prew stands up. In the glow of a

streetlight his face shows the marks of his battle with

Galovitch. He wobbles and we realize he, too, really Has One

On.

The guitars and singing continues in b.g. through following.

CAMERA PANS with Prew as he weaves to the road.

MEDIUM SHOT MIDDLE OF ROAD

as Prew crosses. He can see the seated figure but the light

from the street is too dim to identify it.

Prew stops automatically.

Prew moves closer, CAMERA WITH him, until he recognizes

Warden.

He pulls a bottle of whisky from his field jacket, holds it

up to Prew. Prew takes the bottle and drinks. Then he sits

down in the road as matter-of-factly as did Warden. He gives

the bottle back to Warden.

Prew drinks.

They square their shoulders heroically.

Each takes a drink.

Prew nods gravely.

Warden nods solemnly as if Prew has uttered a great truth.

They pass the bottle once more.

Warden claps Prew on the shoulder as if he is a lifelong

friend. They smile. They look as if they are sharing a great

secret, a secret known to them alone in the world. The

mournful guitars and singing comes over a little louder.

The headlights of a jeep descend upon Warden and Prew. Then

the vehicle skids into the shot with a screeching of brakes,

comes to a halt directly in front of the men. Warden and Prew

look at the car calmly, don't move. The headlights are

blazing on them. Stark hops out from the driver's seat,

furious.

The music of the guitars has stopped. There is a strange

whine now, far in the distance, not identifiable. It grows

during following.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT MAGGIO

as he stumbles around the side of the jeep directly into the

blaze of the headlights. There are scars, new and healing on

Maggio's face. One of his ears is cauliflowered, enough to

give him the lopsided ribald look of a punchy. A couple of

teeth are missing. Weirdly outlined in the glare, he is a

nightmare figure, an apparition. The whine in the distance is

identifiable now. It is the siren of the Stockade.

The men gape at Maggio, unable to accept the shock of his

appearance. Then Prew and Warden jump up and catch him as he

is about to fall. The drunkenness drains out of them. Stark

watches in bewilderment.

Warden steps back as Prew holds Maggio. During following

Anderson and Clark come over, watch pop-eyed.

Maggio grasps him tighter. He is crying now.

TWO SHOT MAGGIO AND PREW

He goes limp in Prew's arms, slides to the road.

Warden bends over Maggio. The others watch, scared.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

staring down at Maggio.

Warden looks up.

Prew bends over, picks up Maggio, holds him in his arms

gently, unbelieving.

CAMERA MOVES AHEAD of Prew as he carries Maggio to the jeep,

the others following. He lifts Maggio into the rear of,the

jeep. Warden puts his hand on Prew's arm.

Prew stares at Maggio, lying in the jeep. Stark gets into the

front of the jeep.

He starts the motor. Prew leans over, moves Maggio's body a

little.

The jeep drives off.

EXT. BARRACKS AREA - NIGHT

Framed beautifully in the moonlight, the Quadrangle and

Barracks area look like a college campus. Silence. No

movement.

LONG SHOT ANOTHER ANGLE

A figure can be seen far in b.g, at the Bugler's post beside

the megaphone. Another figure stands near him. The silence

continues, then is broken by the sound of the bugle beginning

Taps. The first note is incredibly clear and loud and

certain. It is held longer than most Buglers hold it. The

second note is daringly short, abrupt. The last note of the

first phrase rises, peals out, heartfelt. Two men come into

the shot, smoking. They stop, turn toward the Bugler, listen

attentively. One of them flips away his cigarette. The Taps

continues through the following.

INT. SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT

Most of the men turn in their beds toward the sound of the

bugle. Some prop up on their elbows.

CLOSE SHOT CHOATE

as he listens. A look of mingled longing and satisfaction.

CLOSE SHOT LEVA

listening. A strange look of pride.

CLOSE SHOT MAZZIOLI

listening, his face also betraying emotions normally

concealed.

MEDIUM SHOT TREADWELL AND ANDERSON

listening. Their bunks are next to each other.

EXT. PORCH ON BARRACKS - NIGHT

Three men come out of the barracks, lean over the porch rail,

listening. Their faces are thoughtful, sad.

INT. CAPTAIN'S OFFICE - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT WARDEN

The office lit only by a light over his desk. He is working

late, a sheaf of papers spread out before him. He listens to

the bugle call, moved, sorrowful. He snaps off the light,

listens in the darkness.

EXT. QUADRANGLE - NIGHT

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW

at the Bugler's post. He is finishing the last phrases, full

and wonderful. Behind him stands Friday Clark, motionless.

The final note quivers to silence. Prew swings the megaphone

for the repeat. Then the repeat begins, the clear proud notes

reverberating across the silent quadrangle.

INT. WARDEN'S ROOM OFF SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT KARELSEN

lying on his back in his bunk, arms clasped behind his head.

He listens, his gnarled face the picture of the old soldier.

He breathes heavily as if he is hearing his own requiem and

epitaph.

EXT. PORCH ON BARRACKS - NIGHT

There are eight or nine men here now, listening.

CLOSE SHOTS DHOM HENDERSON THORNHILL

There is a choked kinship on all the faces.

INT. SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT

More men are propped on their elbows, their heads turned

toward the Bugler. The dim figure of Treadwell can be seen,

at a window now.

EXT. QUADRANGLE - NIGHT

CLOSE SHOT PREW

continuing the Taps. There are tears in his eyes now.

EXT. BARRACKS STEPS - NIGHT

A half dozen men are sitting on the steps, listening, among

them Stark and Wilson. Stark shakes his head sadly.

EXT. COMPANY STREET - NIGHT

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

listening now on the porch alongside the street.

EXT. BARRACKS AREA - NIGHT

Several groups of two and three scattered about. They are

standing in no particular places, as if they have been

walking and stopped suddenly. They are all looking toward the

Bugler.

INT. SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT ANDERSON

as the Taps repeat is drawing to a close. He is lying on his

side, turned toward the Bugler, a look of serenity, of peace

on his face. His eyes close as he falls asleep.

EXT. QUADRANGLE - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT PREW

coming to the end of the Taps. CAMERA MOVES IN to a CLOSEUP.

Prew's face is wet with tears. His lips are pinched and red.

He blows the final notes.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW AND CLARK

Prew lowers the bugle slowly and lets the megaphone rest in

its swivel. He withdraws the mouthpiece, puts it in his

pocket. He hands the bugle to Clark. Clark looks at the

instrument as if it has become hallowed. Prew walks off into

the darkness.

EXT. NEW CONGRESS CLUB - NIGHT

CAMERA MOVES along street, passing a lone pedestrian. It

MOVES TOWARD the sign NEW CONGRESS CLUB, HOLDS beside an open

window through which is heard the sound of harsh piano

playing; the pounding style and lack of shading are clearly

Fatso Judson's. CAMERA PANS AND INCLUDES Prew, leaning

against the building. He is watching the entrance to the Club

patiently. There is relentless hatred on his face. The music

stops. Prew does not move.

EXT. NEW CONGRESS CLUB - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT AT ENTRANCE

Hearty male laughter from within. The door opens and Fatso

and a couple of sailors cane out. They are about to start

down the street.

Fatso looks around in direction of voice. CAMERA PANS,

DISCLOSES Prew, still leaning against the building. Fatso

squints, not recognizing him.

Fatso takes a couple of steps toward Prew, squints again.

Prew's voice is so toneless as to be ominous.

The sailors go off. Fatso walks into the darkness of an alley

next to the building. Prew follows.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND FATSO

Just enough light from the street lamp to illuminate about

ten feet into the alley.

Fatso throws back his head and laughs loudly.

There is the snick of a blade snapping open as Fatso pulls a

knife. He moves toward Prew, who steps swiftly to one side.

There is the same sound as Prew pulls a knife from his

pocket, snaps it open, holds it out flat in his hand, showing

it to Fatso.

Fatso darts at Prew, knife raised. Prew moves back, but Fatso

is on him and they both roll to one side along the building.

The movement throws them deep into the shadows.

ANOTHER ANGLE SHOOTING INTO THE SHADOWS

The two figures feint and dart. There is the occasional

silver flash of the knives as light hits them. The men go

deeper into the shadows, are all but lost to view. There is a

startled, pained cry. Then one of the figures falls to his

knees and starts to crawl toward camera.

CLOSE SHOT SHOOTING NEAR GROUND

as the figure comes directly to camera, REVEALING the

anguished face of Fatso. It slowly turns, is upside down in

the frame.

Fatso is on his back, his stomach gushing bloods his eyes

already glazing. Prew staggers into the light now. His left

side has two vicious cuts; he is bleeding badly. He stares

down at Fatso, who manages a small, reproving voice.

Prew backs away from Fatso, turns, staggers down the alley

away from camera.

EXT. CLIFF ROAD - NIGHT

Prew comes toward camera, laboriously struggling up the road.

His side is hemorrhaging steadily, his shirt and trousers

blood-soaked. He stops close to camera. He wads his

handkerchief, sticks it inside his shirt near the knife

wound. He smiles wearily, crookedly.

He lights a cigarette, his fingers shaking. The flame from

the match illuminates his left wrist. There is a deep scar on

it. It seems to fascinate Prew as he stares at it, rubs his

fingers across it.

He turns, moves on up the road; CAMERA MOVES CLOSE behind

him, as if overhearing his thoughts which come over on sound

track.

Prew moves away from camera out of shot.

EXT. CLIFF ROAD - NIGHT

TRACKING SHOT ANOTHER SECTION OF THE ROAD

CAMERA FOLLOWS Prew, as he keeps in shadows, moves slowly up

the cliff. He is in much pain now. His hand rubs across his

face; his fingers linger on his forehead near his eye.

CAMERA LOSES Prew again as he stumbles into shadows.

EXT. CLIFF ROAD - NIGHT

TRACKING SHOT SITE OF PREVIOUS PREW-ALMA SCENE

CAMERA FOLLOWS Prew, who is now fighting hard to keep his

feet. His hand is pressed tight to his side.

He moves on around bend in road out of shot.

INT. ALMA'S HOUSE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT ALMA AND GORGETTE

The radio is blaring the "Hut Sut Song." Alma is crocheting.

Gorgette is reading. CAMERA SHOOTS across them to the front

door. The doorknob moves slowly, the door opens. Prew falls

into the room and pitches to the floor.

She rushes to him, bends over him. Gorgette runs to the

radio, turns it off.

CLOSE SHOT ALMA

Her face agonized as she leans over Prew.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT ALMA AND PREW

He pushes himself up on one elbow, seems pleased by her

stricken expression. He manages a smile.

Gorgette kneels into shot. Prew's smile becomes silly as he

turns his head to her.

INT. GENERAL'S OFFICE - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT GENERAL SLATER COLONEL WILLIAMS HOLMES

The American flag, the General's flag and the Division flag

are the only colorful elements in a rather severe office.

Colonel Williams is reading from a typed report.

Colonel Williams puts his report on the General's desk.

Holmes' face reflects a weary resignation as if underneath he

has really expected something like this for a long time. He

makes no move to speak. The General is angry clear through.

He indicates the meeting is over. Holmes rises, is about to

leave, pauses.

The General frowns, is unresponsive. Holmes looks to Colonel

Williams helplessly.

INT. KAREN'S BEDROOM - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT KAREN AND HOLMES

He confronts her, waving a sheet of stationery. His voice is

strangled, almost hysterical.

She shakes her head, not wanting to believe; she takes the

letter out of his hand, starts to read it. She stops after a

sentence or two. Her hand falls to her side. Holmes sits on

the bed heavily. The bluster bleeds out of him. He shakes his

head, emotionally bewildered. For perhaps the first time in

his life he is nakedly honest.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT KAREN

reacting; she is surprised, a little afraid of her own

emotion. The outcry, so lost, so despairing, moves her. She

is sorry for him.

MEDIUM SHOT HOLMES AND KAREN

Trembling, Karen puts the letter on the dressing table.

Abruptly, she runs out of the room.

INT. CAPTAIN'S OFFICE - DAY

CLOSE SHOT DESK

FEATURING placard reading LIEUTENANT ROSS. We hear Ross'

first few words over this, then CAMERA PULLS BACK to MEDIUM

SHOT. Ross is forceful, clean-cut, gives the impression of

toughness but fairness. As he talks he takes down the

photographs of prize fighters and prize fighting from the

wall. Watching and listening are Sergeants Dhom, Thornhill,

Henderson, Leva, Stark and Karelsen and Corporal Wilson. Ross

is such a complete switch from Holmes that the men are almost

unnerved by him. But a definite respect is reflected in their

expressions. Warden, beside his desk, shares this.

He bands the pictures to Leva.

Nobody speaks.

The men troop out, passing camera. As last man leaves, CAMERA

IS ON Warden. He is looking at Ross with considerable

approval, even admiration. He resumes a more normal

expression as Ross turns toward him.

The phone rings. Warden goes to his desk, answers.

Karen's voice is heard on the phone; we cannot understand

what she is saying, but a flood of words pours through. With

Ross looking on, Warden is embarrassed.

Ross perceives Warden's distress. He starts toward the door.

Warden nods gratefully. Ross smiles, leaves the room.

He puts down the receiver. He stares at the desk. Then he

slowly pulls out the top drawer. The Officers Application

Blank is lying on top of a pile of other papers. He takes it

out, looks at it somberly. CAMERA MOVES IN to an INSERT of

the Application. We see Warden's answers to sex, age, race,

etc. CAMERA MOVES DOWN the page to the place for the

signature of the applicant. It is unsigned.

EXT. KUHIO PARK - NIGHT

In b.g. Warden, in uniform, and Karen are sitting on the same

bench as in their first meeting in the park. We cannot hear

what they are saying at first. CAMERA MOVES IN past a few

pedestrians and HOLDS on a MEDIUM SHOT. There is a defeated,

tired look about them, as if they have been talking for a

long time to no avail.

He runs his hand through his hair. He seems to be groping

inside himself for some way to explain.

He bends toward her to kiss her. She presses him back.

CAMERA PULLS BACK, PASSES a few pedestrians, Warden and Karen

remaining in b.g. of shot. They begin to talk again, quietly,

undemonstratively. We are too far away now to hear what they

are saying.

INT. ALMA'S HOUSE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT PREW AND ALMA

Alma is reading a newspaper in b.g. Prew is disheveled and

slovenly, needs a shave badly. His face is lined with pain.

He is drunk from several days of steady drinking, stone

drunk, as if in a trance. He wears crumpled civilian clothes.

He is at a table laboriously writing out the Re-enlistment

Blues. He finishes writing a stanza and sings softly.

Alma looks up from the paper.

Prew, who has stopped singing but not turned his head,

resumes the song.

Prew nods blankly. He rises slowly and walks across the room

toward Alma. But his eyes are fixed on a whisky bottle on a

table beside her. He moves stiffly, favoring his side, his

face contorted. He picks up the bottle, pours himself a

drink.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

He smiles faintly, holds the glass high.

TWO SHOT PREW AND ALMA

Prew looks at her, hurt. He moves back to his table,

mumbling.

Prew sits at the table again, continues to mumble.

Prew shakes his head sadly as if he doesn't know the answer.

He picks up the paper he has been writing on, sings softly,

testing the last couple of lines affectionately.

INT. MESS HALL - DAY

CAMERA FEATURES clock on wall reading 7:52. About half the

Company is at breakfast. There is considerable laughter and

horseplay. Near the kitchen a dozen men are in the chow line.

FEATURING Warden at the NCO table. He rises, carries his

plate with him towards the chow line. A sudden, deep-toned,

earthquake-like blast shudders through the room. The cups on

the tables rattle. Warden stops, cocks his head. The men stop

eating, look at each other.

The men resume eating. Warden moves a couple of steps toward

the chow line when the second blast hits. It is much heavier

and fuller.

CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

He has a hunch about this now. He reaches out to put his

plate down, holding it very carefully in both hands. However,

he doesn't bother to see if there is anything under it. The

plate falls and crashes on the floor a fraction of a second

before the third groundswell of blast shakes the room.

EXT. COMPANY STREET - DAY

FULL SHOT NEAR MESS HALL

A man sprints toward the mess hall, yelling to right and left

at the top of his lungs. As he approaches camera we see it is

Mazzioli.

LONG SHOT SHOOTING UP CIRCLES ON UNDERSIDE OF MOVING PLANE

The roar of the plane over shot.

MOVING SHOT SHOOTING DOWN FROM JAP PLANE PAST PILOT

The figure of Mazzioli gets closer and closer as the plane

dives toward him, machine guns spitting.

MEDIUM SHOT MAZZIOLI

as the Jap plane flashes by close above him. The stones in

the pavement pop up. Mazzioli flops on the street. The plane

zooms.

FULL SHOT MESS HALL

as the men rush out. In the front ranks are Warden, Karelsen,

Stark and Choate, Choate carries his half-filled plate in one

hand, a mug of coffee in the other. The men stretch their

necks, following the plane. Then they look back up the

street, CAMERA PANNING. Far in b.g, a column of black

mushrooming to the sky. Warden dashes to Mazzioli. CAMERA

MOVES IN to a CLOSE SHOT as Warden bends over him, hoists him

to a sitting position. He is extremely gentle. Mazzioli's

knee is laid open and is bleeding freely. Warden whips out a

handkerchief and starts to apply a tourniquet.

Some of the men continue to crane at the sky. A few pick up

metal links from the Jap bullets.

Warden gets Mazzioli to his feet, turns to first man in group

surrounding them. It is Anderson.

Anderson starts Mazzioli down the street.

LONG SHOT SHOOTING UP TO SKY

A pair of planes are diving toward the street.

The men rush for cover, all except Choate who is left alone

in shot. He takes a big bite of his sausage and eggs, hastily

downs a swig of coffee. Then he throws the plate and cup into

the street and dives for cover as the terrifyingly loud noise

of the Jap planes indicates they are directly overhead.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

The men are pouring in from the Company street, all shouting

at once. Warden pushes his way through them and jumps up on

the pool table. His big voice booms.

The men begin to quiet down, look to Warden respectfully.

Through the scene the heavy earth shudders are felt and heard

as bombs hit in the far distance. Also the sound of the

strafing planes.

The non-coms push out the door.

Treadwell hurries after the non-coms.

There are shouts of protest. The men are over the first shock

now and beginning to get angry, anxious for action.

Squad leaders begin to herd their men out. Warden jumps off

the pool table. Stark and Karelsen come up to him.

They smile at each other affectionately, then push into the

crowd leaving the Day Room.

EXT. SUPPLY ROOM - DAY

The non-coma are arguing violently with Leva at the door to

the Supply Room. Jap planes are loud overhead.

Warden hurries up to the group.

They flatten against the wall as a Jap plane roars building-

high down the street, machine guns flaring. After it passes,

they rush back to Lava,

Lava puts his hand in his pocket protectively, shakes his

head.

Choate, Henderson and Dhom back up for a run at the door.

Leva moves in front of the door.

Warden dashes up the porch steps as Choate, Henderson and

Dhom launch themselves at the door. Leva steps aside. The

door rattles ponderously, then flies open. The three

battering rams careen into the Supply Room. The men standing

by cheer and rush in after them. Leva shakes his head grimly.

INT. SQUAD ROOM - DAY

The men are sitting on their bunks, unhappily, holding their

rifles. Others who have slept through breakfast are dressing

hastily. Warden rushes into the room. The men immediately

bark ad-libbed questions at him:

In b.g. Henderson and others are going up the porch stairs to

the roof. They tote BARs and loading clips. Karelsen and two

helpers follow with a heavy machine gun and belt boxes.

Warden starts for the porch stairs. He is attracted by

something, stops, looks out of scene.

MEDIUM SHOT THORNHILL FROM WARDEN'S POV

lying under an empty bunk with three mattresses piled on it.

He is in his underwear and a helmet, hugs his rifle.

MEDIUM SHOT THORNHILL AND WARDEN

Warden hits the floor as a plane is heard so loud and low it

sounds as if it's coming right into the room. A dotted line

of bullets crosses the floor and moves into Warden's and

Karelsen's room. Warden jumps up and rushes into the room.

INT. WARDEN'S ROOM OFF SQUAD ROOM - DAY

as Warden runs in. Broken glass lies all over the floor.

Bullet holes are stitched across the top of Warden's

footlocker. He throws back the lid fiercely. His linen is

polka-dotted with holes. He tosses out shirts, shorts, etc.,

digs underneath them. He pulls out a quart bottle of whisky;

it is untouched. Warden smiles with relief. He lifts the

bottle to his lips, drinks long and heartily.

EXT. ROOF OF BARRACKS - DAY

FULL SHOT ROOF

About twenty of Company GIs men, including almost all the non-

cams, are on the roof, They are crouched behind the chimneys

or down on their knees in the corners. The BARs are propped

on the low walls or chimney tops, their muzzles pointed to

the sky.

LONG SHOT SHOOTING FROM ROOF TO SKY

Three Jap planes, forming a V, are heading straight for

camera.

FULL SHOT MEN ON ROOF

The scream of the planes drowns Dhom's voice. There is a

tremendous clatter as the men fire. The Jap planes pass,

untouched.

From this moment on there is no letup of the noise -- there

is a wild cacophony of Jap planes, BARs, Karelsen's machine

gun, the deep sound of bombs hitting in the far distance. And

Chief Choate, singing the Regimental marching song, loudly

and lustily.

as Warden comes up on the roof through the skylight. He

shouts incoherently at the men. They shout back in a wild

cheer. They are like a pack of hungry men enjoying their

first big meal in years. In b.g. the Jap V has swung about

and heads back. Warden grabs a BAR from the roof.

CLOSE SHOT FLASH JAP PILOT IN LEAD PLANE

grinning as his plane dives, its guns roaring. His silk scarf

ripples out behind him.

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT WARDEN

firing the BAR, standing, as the Jap planes roar over. He

staggers back from the recoil.

FULL SHOT ROOF

The men fire in unison. They rise after the planes pass,

shake their fists. Henderson and others of the loading detail

appear on the roof, bringing up more ammunition.

CLOSE SHOT FEATURING WARDEN

He lets out a hoarse yell of glee and pride. "These are my

boys. This is my Company," it seems to say. The men answer

back with a great answering shout.

Warden makes a tour of the roof, laughing, exhorting,

slapping the men on their buttocks like a quarterback. They

respond with tremendous spirit; they are having one hell of a

time. We get only a snatch of what Warden is yelling.

The sound of a bugle blowing insistently is now heard,

blending into the rest of the noise. Treadwell runs to the

edge of the roof, looks over.

LONG SHOT SHOOTING FROM ROOF TO QUADRANGLE

At the Bugler's post, Friday Clark is sounding a call.

MEDIUM SHOT ON ROOF

Treadwell turns, yells at the men.

EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT CLARK

His cheeks puffed, blowing the bugle madly.

INT. LIVING ROOM OF ALMA'S HOUSE - DAY

MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT PREW

He is lying on a couch in pajamas. He has not shaven, his

hair is unkempt. A Radio Announcer is heard over shot. Prew

wakens, groggy with hangover and near-delirium, wrestles with

the blanket over him. CAMERA PULLS BACK to MEDIUM SHOT,

DISCLOSING Alma and Gorgette. They have negligees over their

nightgowns, are listening to the radio. The Announcer's voice

tries hard to be calm and official but he cannot keep the

tremor out of it. (NOTE: Transcripts of the actual broadcast

have been requested.)

The Announcer's voice goes on as above.

Alma shakes Prew, hard. He falls back on the couch, passes

out.

EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY

The Jap strafing attack is continuing. Their planes are

making a figure 8 in the sky. Silhouettes of men on the roof

can b e seen. Friday Clark is blowing his Cavalry Charge. In

b.g. men of the loading detail are scurrying around.

Lieutenant Ross runs into shot. CAMERA PANS him across the

quadrangle toward the barracks.

MEDIUM SHOT NEAR BARRACKS

Lieutenant Ross is hailed by the loading detail -- about ten

men. He grabs a BAR and ammunition from them and runs into

the barracks. The loading detail is working feverishly, same

carrying ammunition into the barracks, others picking up

empty clips as they are thrown from the roof and hustling

them toward the Supply Room.

EXT. SUPPLY ROOM - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT FEATURING LEVA

He is working hard, passing out ammunition to members of the

loading detail. But he shakes his head dourly as if the whole

thing is still very unofficial.

EXT. ROOF OF BARRACKS - DAY

As before, pandemonium -- but controlled and efficient. The

men are hoarse from shouting, red-eyed, puffing from

excitement and exertion. Two Jap planes swoop past and the

full-throated umbrella of fire lets loose. Lieutenant Ross

clambers onto the roof, stooping under the burden of the BAR

and loading clips. The men greet him with a concerted cheer.

TWO SHOT LIEUTENANT ROSS AND WARDEN

Ross looks around the roof, nods with evident approval, claps

Warden on the shoulder.

Sound of Jap planes comes up ear-splitting loud. Ross drops

down behind a chimney, swings his BAR, fires. CAMERA MOVES TO

INCLUDE Karelsen at the other side of the chimney, firing the

machine gun. Two soldiers hang onto the bucking legs of the

tripod. Two Jap planes pass in b.g. of shot, zoom off into

the sky.

as the men on the roof reload. In the distance the Jap planes

have turned and are heading back for the roof.

CLOSE SHOTS FLASHES JAP PILOTS IN PLANES

Their lips curled bitterly as their planes head for the roof.

CLOSE SHOT FLASH WILSON

firing a BAR at the planes.

CLOSE SHOT FLASH DHOM

firing.

CLOSE SHOT FLASH TREADWELL

firing Joyously.

CLOSE SHOT FLASH CHOATE

singing as he fires.

CLOSE SHOT KARELSEN

firing the machine gun. He yanks the tripod away from his

helpers, picks up the gun, stands and swings it after the

plane. The recoil staggers him half way across the roof and

deposits him on his rear.

CLOSE SHOT JAP PILOT

He jumps in his seat like a man tied to a hot stove, throws

up his arms helplessly.

LONG SHOT OPEN FIELD SHOOTING FROM ROOF

The Jap plane bursts into flame and crashes.

FULL SHOT ON ROOF

The men rise as one with an uproarious cheer. They rush to

Karelsen, pick him up. Warden lets go with another of his

rebel yells.

as the men return to their positions. Two planes head for

them, pass over as Company G lets go again with everything it

has.

SHOT SHOOTING FROM ROOF JAP PLANE

swooping across the quadrangle about ten feet from the

ground.

EXT. QUADRANGLE - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT NEAR BUGLER'S POST

Friday Clark, blowing the Cavalry Charge madly, abandons the

megaphone as he sees the plane coming. He drops on his chest,

hugging the bugle. The plane passes. Clark jumps up

instantly, resumes blowing the Charge.

LONG SHOT SHOOTING FROM ROOF JAP PLANE

The same plane has gained altitude so that it is a few feet

above the barracks as it heads straight for the roof.

The men flatten, all but Warden. He stands, swings his BAR

toward the plane. CAMERA IS ANGLED so that Warden is

silhouetted against the sky as he fires at the Jap plane.

LONG SHOT JAP PLANE

It misses the roof by a foot or two, zooms up at a weird

angle. A thick cloud of smoke pours out of the engine. The

plane falls off on one wing and crashes into trees at the end

of the quadrangle.

CLOSE SHOT JAP PLANE

crashing. The gas-tank explodes. A cloud of fire and black

smoke obscures the screen.

INT. LIVING ROOM OF ALMA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

MEDIUM SHOT PREW

There are improvised blackout curtains over windows and the

glass doors. The radio is on, volume low, and an announcer

(not the one of the morning) is droning out an account of

Pearl Harbor. Prew, still on the couch in his pajamas, looks

as if he has just struggled to wakefulness. He listens to the

radio for a few moments in confused disbelief. He shakes his

head vigorously as if to throw off his grogginess. He shakes

his head again, slowly, more knowingly now, nodding as if he

remembers something from the broadcast of the morning. Then

as if all of it hits him suddenly and fully and terribly he

wrenches himself off the couch. He looks around at the dimly

lit room.

He goes to the blackout curtains, peeps out. Then he turns

back to listen to the radio. Abruptly, he runs into the

bedroom.

The room remains empty for a few moments as the radio

announcer goes on, continuing previous remarks.

Prew comes back into the room. He has his shoes on, holds

civilian shirt and pants in his hand. He starts to put them

on hurriedly, his attention still focused on the broadcast.

The front door opens and Alma and Gorgette enter. They are

surprised to see Prew up. He nods at them, turns back quickly

to listen to the radio as he continues dressing.

The radio continues on under the scene. Alma and Gorgette

speak breathlessly, in a rush.

Prew gestures to radio as if he's heard all about it. He

sticks his shirttails into his trousers.

Prew nods vehemently, moves across room to a table.

He picks up the sheet of paper with the "Re-enlistment Blues"

written out on it, starts to fold it. Desperation is

reflected on Alma's face; she turns to Gorgette, as if

pleading for aid,

Prew shakes his head, as if obsessed by only one thought.

He puts the folded piece of paper in his pocket and starts

for the door.

Prew glances at Alma incredulously. She sobs suddenly,

violently.

She throws her arms around him, clings to him.

Prew holds her closely for a moment, then moves her away from

him. He turns toward the door.

Prew frowns as if he's not sure he heard correctly.

He opens the door quickly and slips into the darkness.

EXT. HIGHWAY ADJOINING GOLF COURSE - NIGHT

MOVING SHOT JEEP WITH THREE MPs

The night is inky black except for a little moonlight and the

dimmed headlights of the jeep. CAMERA SHOOTS PAST driver onto

the highway as the jeep moves slowly along. The two other MPs

clutch Thompson guns, try to scan the dark countryside.

LONG SHOT SHOOTING FROM SIDE OF HIGHWAY

The headlights pass along the road as the jeep moves on out

of sight. As its sound fades we hear Prew's heavy breathing,

are barely able to distinguish his figure in the darkness. He

is crouched, watching the car go down the highway. We hear

his thoughts. The voice is labored and agonized.

He groans, puts his hand to his side. In the feeble light

from the moon we see blood on his shirt and hand. He looks up

and down the road.

Still crouched, Prew starts across the road.

LONG SHOT OPPOSITE SIDE OF ROAD

We see nothing but the strip of road, then Prew+s figure is

visible, bent low, weaving a little. As he approaches the

camera, he is taught square in the twin beams of dimmed

headlights which flash on from the side of the road. Now we

see that a jeep is parked near camera, heading in the

opposite direction from the jeep which passed before. It is

also manned by three MPs. There is a startled cry from Prew.

Prew starts to run back across the road. A white spotlight

flashes on, its harsh brilliant light following him. Prew

slips to one knee.

CLOSE SHOT PREW

looking toward the jeep, blinded by the blazing light. He has

the appearance of a terrified animal. There is a wildness, a

senselessness about him. The blotch of blood oozes and

spreads over his shirt. He picks up a rock from the road.

Prew rises, staggers away from the jeep.

Prew flings the rock desperately toward the lights. There is

a crash of glass and one headlight winks off. Prew runs

across the road and onto the golf course.

MEDIUM SHOT JEEP

The motor starts, The jeep moves out from its hiding place

and starts across the golf course.

MOVING SHOT SHOOTING FROM JEEP

Prew, in a skirmisher's zigzag, is trying to elude the

spotlight. He is about twenty yards in front of the jeep. He

heads for a high sandtrap. The spot is full on him as he

reaches the lip of the trap. He turns, yells something back

at the jeep. It is barely heard over the sound of the jeep.

MEDIUM SHOT PREW

standing on the lip of the trap, the jeep bearing down on

him. He turns, starts to dive into the trap. A blast of

gunfire from the jeep hits him. He falls sideways into the

trap, rolls over on his back, The jeep moves into the shot,

crawls half-way over the trap, stops, its spotlight pouring

down on Prew. His eyes are open, looking up to the sky.

CAMERA SHOOTS DOWN to Prew from top of trap. A portion of the

jeep is in shot, but we are not able to see the MPs.

The voices are lost as CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY DOWN toward Prew's

open eyes. We hear his thoughts on the sound track, clear and

fast at first and slow and almost inaudible as the CAMERA

REACHES A FULL HEAD CLOSEUP.

CAMERA MOVES CLOSER TO CLOSEUP of Prew's open eyes.

Prew's eyes close. THE SCREEN GOES BLACK.

There is no sound as the screen remains black for several

beats.

EXT. GOLF COURSE - NIGHT

TWO SHOT WARDEN AND A LIEUTENANT COLONEL

They are looking down to camera, which SHOOTS UP as if from

point of view of Prew's body in the sand trap. The dimmed

headlights of two jeeps illuminates them. Warden is fighting

to control his emotion, to remain the professional soldier.

The Lieutenant Colonel is disturbed, but kindly.

MEDIUM SHOT WARDEN AND LIEUTENANT COLONEL

They are standing on the lip of the sandtrap. The hoods of

the jeeps that chased Prew and the second jeep are just

behind them in shot.

The Lieutenant Colonel hands the card to Warden.

He unfolds a sheet of paper, holds it to the headlight. He

and Warden squint at it.

INSERT: CRUMPLED SHEET OF PAPER WITH PENCILED WRITING:

"Re-enlistment Blues" is written at the top. The stanzas of

the song are beneath the heading.

Very softly, so distant that we can only distinguish a word

or two now and then, we hear the voices of Clark, Anderson

and Prew singing the "Re-enlistment Blues." The plaintive

melody continues under the rest of the scene.

MEDIUM SHOT WARDEN AND LIEUTENANT COLONEL

He holds Prew' s bugle mouthpiece up to the light, gives it

to Warden. Warden holds it in his hand, stares at it. Under

the "Re-enlistment Blues," even softer, farther away, we now

hear Prew's bugle blowing Taps. It continues, with the song,

to the end of the scene.

The Lieutenant Colonel looks at Warden closely.

Warden speaks very formally.

The Lieutenant Colonel walks off.

ANOTHER ANGLE WARDEN

INCLUDING Prew's body in the shot as Warden looks down at it.

He looks at it for several moments. The Taps is just coming

to an end. Warden speaks very quietly.

EXT. HONOLULU HARBOR - DAY

LONG SHOT SHOOTING FROM DOCK TO SHIP LEAVING HARBOR

Taps and the Re-enlistment Blues are swept away by the lush

strains of Aloha Oe. The Hawaiian music continues through the

scene.

EXT. PROMENADE DECK OF SHIP - DAY

MEDIUM SHOT KAREN

She is looking back at the city. Around her neck is a garland

of leis.

LONG SHOT HONOLULU FROM DECK OF SHIP KAREN'S POV

MEDIUM SHOT KAREN

She turns and CAMERA PANS to INCLUDE Alma in shot, standing

beside Karen. She is dressed in black, quite severely.

Karen takes off her leis, begins tossing them over the rail.

Karen looks at Alma numbly. Alma is looking out across the

water.

LONG SHOT LEIS IN WATER

They are floating on the water behind the ship. They are

being carried out to sea.

CLOSE SHOT SINGLE LEI

A choppy wave washes over it, submerges it.

