Wanda hangs up the phone. She looks at it for a beat. Then

puts it back in her purse and heads into the warehouse.

We see the entrance of Farmer Joe's, and shoppers coming in

and out. Oscar looks around for a beat, and takes off his

hoody, and puts it into his back pocket. We follow him into-

It is a moderately sized grocery store, but several SHOPPERS

move about the aisles. Oscar walks over to the seafood

section where Cato CALDWELL, a 22 year old charismatic Black

male stands behind the counter wearing a Deli apron.

Cato sees Oscar and smiles brightly. He takes a pile of fish

off the scale, bags it, ands it to an older BLACK WOMAN. He

takes off his clear glove and slaps hands with Oscar over the

counter.

Oscar looks at the cake box.

She gets into the car.

Oscar pushes his way onto the train and looks out of the

door.

OSCAR'S POV FROM TRAIN

Sophina, Vanessa, Kris, and Carlos, Brandon, and Tim walk

towards the escalator. Kris out ahead of Sophina and Vanessa.

Sophina, Vanessa, and Kris, make it past the cops, but

Caruso stops Carlos, Brandon, and Tim. The officers pull out

their tasers and back the three boys up against the wall.

Brandon takes off his jacket and Caruso takes it, searches it

and throws it. Brandon says something to Salazar, and Caruso

roughly slams him against the wall.

Caruso turns back towards the train, and seemingly makes

direct eye contact with Oscar.

Oscar's body jerks against the pavement. He lets out a

sickening, hollow sound.

Dead silence.

Sophina whips her head around towards the platform.

Katie and Joe's jaw's drop at the sound of the shooting.

We see Pete, and Steph, who have been on this train the whole

time. Pete recording with his video camera, with shock on his

face.

Cato is frozen by shock. Caruso takes a step back, and looks

at Ingram with confusion.

Oscar takes a struggled breath in, coughs up some blood. He

stiffly turns his body around to Ingram.

Brandon, Carlos, Tim stare at Oscar is disbelief.

Cato looses it, he pushes past the police officers in front

of him. He throws his cellphone at Ingram, just missing his

face. It hits the wall, and explodes into pieces. the Cops

rush Cato, taking him to the ground.

Oscar's friends go berserk they start screaming. Brandon

tries to stand up, still handcuffed.

Three Cops rush over and take Brandon to the ground. Other

Cops descend on the other boys.

Ingram flips Oscar back over and handcuffs him, and starts to

search him.

The Cops take all of the boys towards the escalators. But

none of them go without a struggle. It takes four Cops to

control Brandon.

Caruso runs over to Tenisha who looks on from the Operator

car with panic in her eyes.

The Passengers are shouting and going crazy, still filming.

The doors suddenly close.

Mr. Zafiratos holds his daughter while looking out the

windows as if he'd just seen a ghost. Cale still blends into

the crowd. The doors close.

Passengers are even crazier on this car. Hanging out the

doors in the front of the crowd are Katie and Joe. Katie

continues to record with her iPhone- her face red with rage.

The car doors start to close, but Katie sticks her hand out

them causing them to open back up. She continues filming.

Tenisha looks down at the control board, while Caruso leans

in her car window.

Caruso turns and looks down the platform. He sees Katie

hanging out of the first car and sprints over to her.

Caruso pushes Katie's hand back and the doors shut. The train

pulls off. Caruso grabs his walkie.

Ingram finishes searching Oscar only finds a wallet. He's

sweating bullets. Caruso runs over to Ingram.

Ingram can't answer. Caruso snatches Oscar's wallet out of

his hands and waves him away. He and bends down and un-cuffs

Oscar. He rolls him over and we see Oscar's eyes are starting

to grow distant.

Caruso bends down to look at Oscar.

We see Oscar's phone is on the ground ringing. The screen

reads, "Sophina Calling".

Sophina now frantic, stands with her cellphone to her ear.

Kris and Vanessa talk to three POLICE OFFICERS who are

guarding the entrance like club bouncers.

Sophina hangs up the phone, then quickly dials another

number.

INTERCUT WITH

Only moonlight fills the room. A cellphone RINGS. Wanda wakes

up, checks it, answers the phone.

Wanda closes her eyes for a beat, this hurts. She gets out of

bed and starts putting on her clothes.

A SIREN is now super close. Sophina turns to see four

PARAMEDICS rush through the emergency entrance turnstile

rolling a large gurney with medical equipment on it.

Sophina hangs up the phone and runs towards the paramedics.

They ignore her, and quickly get into the elevator with their

gear, the doors close behind them. Sophina hears COMMOTION

coming from the escalators. She looks over and sees Brandon

kicking and struggling, as the Cops bring him down. Cato,

Tim, Jason, and Carlos follow, all surrounded by Cops.

Vanessa and Kris run over to them as the bring them out

towards the parking lot, where several Police Cars are

parked.

Sophina sprints over to the cars. Cato and Brandon are going

so crazy that they don't even notice her.

Sophina get's Jason's attention.

The Cops stuff Jason into the back of their car before he can

answer. They stuff Tim into the same car.

It takes four Cops to get Brandon. Another group of Cops are

having the same problem with Cato.

Oscar still lies on the ground, Caruso lies over him, holding

his hand.

The elevator doors open, and the Paramedics rush towards

Oscar. Caruso stands up, starts talking to PARAMEDIC 1, hands

him Oscar's ID.

The others immediately begin tending to Oscar. They check his

vitals, and pull out a pair of large scissors and quickly cut

off his shirt. They flip him over, revealing a large entry

wound on his left shoulder blade. It bleeds profusely.

Paramedic 1 walks over to Oscar and kneels down.

Oscar tries to nod.

Sophina is in tears, arguing with the Cops guarding the

platform.

Her cellphone rings. She looks down at it and grows more

frantic. She answers it.

Horror flashes over Wanda's face.

CONTINUOUS

Sophina is hysterical, we finally see what she sees-

Sophina hangs up the phone and watches as the Ambulance

speeds off down Fruitvale Blvd.

Cato, still in the back of the police car, is kicking the

window with both feet. Brandon continues to scream from his

car. The police cars pull off.

MOMENTS LATER

The doors burst open, and the Paramedics wheel Oscar into the

ER Trauma room.

We are close on Oscar as he lies on his back, unconscious

breathing tubes are attached to his mouth. His chest rises up

and down slowly, struggled.

SURGEONS, and PARAMEDICS move around Oscar.

The LEAD SURGEON, a tall, slim Black man in his 50's, points

to an object that lies just under Oscar's right clavicle,

just under his skin.

CLOSE ON OSCAR'S CLAVICLE

The surgeon takes a scalpel and cuts into Oscar's skin, just

above the protruding mass. Blood runs out, he presses down

and pops out the bullet, that looks like a large metal

mushroom. The surgeon examines it.

He places the bullet into an empty beaker atop a cart. He

turns back to Oscar and begins to stitch up the incision. The

Lead Surgeon looks at xrays of Oscar's chest on a light

board. Paramedic 2 stands over his shoulder.

A Resident Surgeon points to a large dark cloud on the xrays.

CLOSE ON OSCAR'S CHEST

The Surgeon sticks a tube into the right side of Oscar's

chest, and blood flows out of the tube uncontrollably.

Spilling onto the floor.

The medical staff sees this, and kicks their movements into

high gear.

Oscar lies on the operating table, sedated. The Surgeons talk

medical speak. They move with astounding quickness and

precision. Lead Surgeon takes a large scalpel, and makes a 14

inch incision under Oscar's right nipple.

Blood rushes out, it's worse than they thought. It begins to

hit the floor. A RESIDENT SURGEON reacts to this, and quickly

grabs a large emesis basin. He puts it underneath the wound,

catching the blood. Another Surgeon places a spreader into

the wound, and opens it up.

The Lead surgeon looks inside of the incision. He lets his

head down in frustration at what he sees.

A NURSE stands behind a reception desk.. Wanda, Sophina,

Vanessa, and Kris storm into the room. Wanda goes up to the

RECEPTIONIST, a black woman in her 20's.

The Nurse sits at the computer.

Wanda nods.

Wanda nods and walks over towards the chairs.

The operation is fully underway. A surgeon removes Oscar's

lung from the incision.

We see a NURSE change out a bag of Donor Blood on one of the

many IV systems Oscar is hooked up to. She tosses into a bin,

where it lands atop five other empty bags.

Wanda sits in the waiting room next to Sophina.

The Boys storm into the room along with JACK BRYSON SR. a

Hispanic looking man in his 40's. Kris greets the boys, and

they head over to Wanda.

He stands close to his sons Jack and Tim. The Nurse walks out

from behind the back room with the Lead Surgeon, who now

wears fresh scrubs.

Wanda nods, and stands up.

He nods and pats Wanda on the shoulder for a beat, then turns

and heads back into the ICU. Wanda walks back over to the

group. She gives them the news from the doctor.

Several Nurses Operate around Oscar who still lies

unconscious his breathing sounding more struggled than ever.

Suddenly blood begins to run from his right nostril, then his

right eyelid, and his left nostril after that. His EKG

machine begins to BEEP loudly.

The Nurses go into panic mode.

Early morning daylight streams into the waiting area. Where

Wanda, Sophina, Chantay, Ceephus, Daryl, and Oscar's friends

hold hands. Wanda, leads them in prayer.

Lines of blood trickle from Oscar's eyes, nose, and mouth.

The Lead is now in the room and has taken over commands.

Oscar's body begins to violently shake.

A young male RESIDENT DOCTOR, grabs the paddles, the Lead

Surgeon touches Oscar's chest, we see under his skin is

filled with fluid. He taps the Resident Doctor on the

shoulder and shakes his head. He looks up at the clock.

He pulls off his mask, frustrated, and walks out. Oscar's

convulsions stop. A morbid, continuous beep echoes from the

EKG.

The Lead Surgeon walks out, and Wanda is still in the circle

praying. The Nurse goes over to her, pulls her aside.

Wanda approaches the Lead Surgeon with a hopeful look in her

eyes. She reads his eyes for a beat.

The Lead Surgeon looks at her for a beat. And shakes his

head. Wanda puts her face in her hands, her legs wobble.

Sophina who was watching and listening closely sees this. She

breaks down, buries her face in Oscar's hoodie.

Daryl and Ceephus run over to Wanda, just as he arrives, her

legs buckle a bit, he catches her.

Oscar's friends begin to break down.

Tatiana comes out of the bedroom looking confused.

The same shower from earlier. Sophina turns the water on,

helps Tatiana with her clothes, and puts her in. She takes

off her own clothes and steps in as well.

Sophina tries to find her words. Lets the water run on her

face for a bit, then rubs down the friz in Tatiana's hair.

Tatiana looks at Sophina for a long beat.

