teven's loft is in an old squat building on 47th Street near

he edge of the bedroom. Nicky is crawling into the room and

teven is sitting on a mat in the tub, arms in the air and

aisley eating lunch at the end of the long table, looking up

icky goes back inside the theatre. Paisley walks west on

hen Paisley sees him, she seems to freeze.

lliot is on the stoop waiting for him.

pening night crowd. The sidewalk is mobbed. Limousines and

eople seating themselves in the orchestra.

iew from the wings. Jack Haskins and Renee Simon looking on.

teven Schwimmer watches, giving nothing away.

eter staring at the Son. The Son looking increasingly

he theater is nearly emptied out. A few people still heading

Nicky is charged with excitement, hearing the line as a

favorable sign, a positive connection between the play and

the game.

TV SCREEN

Stanley winds up and throws. It's a wild pitch. Mitchell

comes in from third with the tying run.

The bar crowd erupts in cheers.

INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE TABLE

Shock and dread.

Nicky drinks his stinger.

TV SCREEN

Stanley delivers to Wilson. Sound fades away. Action is    in

super slow motion.

Wilson swings and hits a bouncing ball toward first base.

Stanley moves off the mound to cover first. Wilson drops his

bat and races down the line. Bill Buckner, the first baseman,

ranges to his left to field the ball.

INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE TABLE

Nicky watches as if in a trance. Complete silence around him.

He is separate from everybody else, the only clearly defined

figure in a group of shadowy and indistinct people.

TV SCREEN

Nicky's viewpoint. An image of Bill Buckner in silvery light

expanding out of the TV screen to fill the larger

environment. Moving soundlessly in slow motion, Buckner

fields the bouncing ball and heads toward the bag. He beats

Wilson to the base by an eyelash and the inning ends with the

teams tied at 5-5.

Frozen moment: Buckner holding his glove hand aloft, the ball

securely gripped. In the drama of the moment, Buckner seems

to be crying out a word or name, but his face is twisted with

tension and exertion and we can't make out what he is saying.

INT. THE BARRYMORE

Laurel Rogan, seen from behind, is somewhat slumped in her

seat. She turns off the radio, removes the headset and rises.

She moves along the row toward the aisle.

She appears to be the only person in the theater.

She moves trudgingly up the aisle toward the exit. At the

head of the aisle she is startled by a figure standing in

dimness.

It is Steven Schwimmer.

They look at each other. Sound of the cleaning crew in the

lobby and then a door opening at the rear of the orchestra.

Light from a flashlight plays across the seats and walls. The

beam hits Laurel first and then Steven.

The beam holds on Steven. What Laurel sees is a strikingly

handsome young man, dramatically lighted . He takes off his

dark glasses, so she can see his eyes.

INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - MEN'S ROOM

Cramped space. Nicky at the washbasin, disheveled but happy,

washing his face.

One man at the urinal. SECOND MAN behind him, waiting his

turn.

Nicky drying his face with a paper towel.

Nicky throws his paper towel at the men. No one moves. They

are trying to interpret this action.

Nicky charges the men. He and the First Man wrestle each

other into the stall.

Nicky and the First Man are grappling in the stall. Second

Man hurriedly washes his hands at the basin.

Al three men in the stall, wrestling. Nicky has one foot in

the bowl as someone's elbow strikes the handles and the

toilet flushes.

INT. MANION'S OLD TIMER TAVERN - THE BAR AREA - A LITTLE 103

LATER

The crowd is slowly breaking up. A few people still clustered

near the TV sets, which are showing replays.

Nicky is standing alone near a small set at the back on the

room. His clothing torn and stained. One shoe and pants leg

dripping wet. A bruise on his forehead.

He is watching a replay.

TV SCREEN

Wilson hits the ball. It bounces twice, then goes under

Buckner's glove. Knight scores from the third with the

winning run. A 6-5 victory for the Mets.

The main light in the tavern goes out. The TV sets keep

replaying Buckner's error. Regular speed, slow motion, color,

black and white.

Nicky stands in the darkness, brooding.

EXT. LOFT BUILDING

The condemned building where Steven Schwimmer lives. The

street is deserted.

INT. STEVEN'S LOFT

Steven and Laurel on the sofa. He is unbuttoning her blouse.

Two sources of light. A candle on the coffee table. The small

TV set on the counter -- showing a newscast, with sound

turned off.

Steven undoes the last button.

She decides she will trust him. They kiss softly.

She begins to remove his jacket.

Together they get his jacket off.

Laurel sees the shoulder holster and gun.

They kiss passionately.

They are all over the sofa, working on the removal of

Steven's shirt.

INT. THE ENTRANCEWAY

Nicky makes his way past the debris. The front door is gone,

the inner door smashed and battered -- door knobs gone and

locking mechanism ripped out.

He starts up the stairs past a dead or sleeping body.

INT. THE LOFT

On the sofa, Laurel is straddling Steven, whose shirt is

almost completely off, exposing his bulletproof vest. Laurel

is blouseless and barefoot, with her unzipped skirt still on

and her bra dangling from one shoulder.

Steven maneuvers himself into a sitting position so that he

and Laurel face each other at equal height and at close

quarters.

Steven begins removing the cosmetic putty around his

naturally shallow chin. He uses Laurel's hair clip to scrape

his jaw clean. Then he peels off his fake mustache. And

borrows Laurel's dangling bra cup to wipe the bronzing agent

off his face.

INT. THE LANDING

Nicky stands with his back to Steven's door. His gun is out.

He holds it up near his face, muzzle pointed up.

He looks at the gun as if it had feelings and personality,

and he speaks to it as to a sympathetic friend.

INT. THE LOFT

Laurel is on her feet, backing away slightly. Steven removed

his shoes and stands in his stocking feet, noticeably shorter

than he'd been earlier.

He begins to unstrap the bulletproof vest, causing Laurel to

retreat further.

INT. THE LANDING

Nicky turns, steps back and kicks the door. It opens at once.

INT. THE LOFT

Steven and Laurel are briefly immobilized by shock as the

door comes flying open.

Nicky moves toward the candle-lit couple.

Laurel realizes who he is and stands by the sofa. She zips

her skirt.

Nicky is trying to understand what he sees, then he gets it.

Nicky holds his gun hand aloft, repeating the image of Bill

Buckner with the baseball in his glove -- Nicky's

hallucination.

Then Nicky issues a cry, a sound from the time before humans

acquired language. It is the audible anguish of his life,

from the fetus onward.

We hear what he is saying in overlapping echoes and we

realize he is crying out a name. We recognize the look on his

face and the formation of syllables on his lips as elements

we'd seen earlier -- on Buckner's face when he shouted

something as he made N

Laurel reacts with horror to the revelation of Steven's

identity. She rearranges her bra.

Nicky stumbles, drops his gun. It goes off.

Steven flees toward the shadows at the back of the loft, his

hand moving toward the gun in his shoulder holster.

Nicky picks up his gun and begins to stalk him.

Steven fires twice striking a nearby lamp. The room is dark

now. Lit only by the blue glow of the TV.

The TV sports roundup, which has been showing football

highlights, has switched to baseball -- highlights of the Red

Sox-Mets.

Nicky reaches Laurel.

EXT. 48TH STREET NEAR ELEVENTH AVENUE

A yellow taxi comes speeding past, moving eastward on 48th

Street. We see it from various perspectives and elevations.

It is a large checkered cab, the only thing moving in the

night. Steam comes billowing from funnel vents. The taxi

catches every light just before it turns red.

INT. TAXI

Nicky is driving, his face showing intense satisfaction.

Laurel sits next to him.

Driver's name plate ---

The driver sits in the middle of the rear seat, looking

somewhat nervous.

EXT. 48TH STREET

The taxi crosses Park Avenue, speeding past the bronze statue

of a man hailing a cab.

It approaches First Avenue, where a road divider bisects the

thoroughfare. Nicky swings into a sharp turns, barely

averting contact with the divider, and stops abruptly.

Three doors open. On the empty street, Nicky hands the driver

a wad of bills. Then he and Laurel step over the divider. He

puts his arm around her shoulders and they cross the avenue

to the glass tower where they live.

The sun begins to climb out of the East River.

