EXTERIOR - SKY - DAY

The camera is moving toward an Indian city. We are high and

far away, only the sound of the wind as we grow nearer and

nearer, and through the passing clouds these words appear:

"No man's life can be encompassed in one telling. There is

no way to give each year its allotted weight, to include

each event, each person who helped to shape a lifetime. What

can be done is to be faithful in spirit to the record, and

to try to find one's way to the heart of the man..."

And now we are approaching the city, the squalor of the little

shanty dwellings around the outskirts, the shadows of large

factories... And as we move nearer, coursing over the parched

terrain, the tiny fields of cultivation, strands of sound

are woven through the main titles, borne on the wind, images

from the life we are seeking:

British: "Who the hell is he?!", lower class British: "I

don't know, sir."... "My name is Gandhi. Mohandas K.

Gandhi."... A woman's voice, tender, soft: "You are my best

friend, my highest guru... and my sovereign lord."... A man

(Gandhi): "I am asking you to fight!"... An angry aristocratic

English voice: "At home children are writing 'essays' about

him!"... the sound of massed rifle fire, screams...

EXTERIOR - CITY - DAY

And now we are over the city, coming in toward a particular

street in the affluent suburbs of New Delhi... there are a

few cars (it is 1948), and we are closing on a milling crowd

near the entrance to one of the larger homes.

We see saris, Indian tunics, a sprinkling of "Gandhi" caps,

several tongas (two-wheeled, horse-drawn taxis)... the shreds

of sound continue -- American woman, flirtatious, intimate:

"You're the only man I know who makes his own clothes."

Gandhi's laugh... The sound of rioting, women's cries and

screams of terror... An American voice: "This man of peace"...

And as the titles end we begin to pick up the sounds of the

street... an Australian and his wife, a BBC correspondent...

all in passing, as the camera finally closes and holds on

one young man: Godse.

BIRLA HOUSE - EXTERIOR - DAY

Godse steps from a tonga as the crowd begins to move toward

an entrance-way at the back of a long wall.

In contrast to those about him, there is tension in Godse's

face, an air of danger in his movements.

He glances at two policemen who are talking casually, absorbed

in their own gossip -- then he looks back at another tonga

that pulls up just behind his. Two young men (Apte and

Karkare) meet Godse's gaze, and again we get the sense of

imminent danger.

They descend and pay their driver absently, their eyes

watching the crowd.

Sitting along in the shadows of a stationary tonga a little

distance down the street an elderly man (Prakash) with a

short, close-cropped beard and the taut, sunken flesh of a

cadaver is watching...

Apte and Karkare look back at him. There is just the slightest

acknowledgment and then Prakash lifts his eyes to the gate,

as though to tell them to be about their business.

THE GATE AT BIRLA HOUSE - EXTERIOR - DAY

Godse hesitates before approaching the two gardeners who

nonchalantly flank the entrance. He stiffens himself,

cautiously touches something under his khaki jacket, then

glances back at the stoic face of Prakash. Prakash's gaze is

as firm and unrelenting as a death's head. Godse turns back,

wetting his lips nervously, then moves into the middle of a

group going through the gate.

GARDEN - BIRLA HOUSE - EXTERIOR - TWILIGHT

A fairly numerous crowd is gathering here, informally filling

the area on one side of a walk that leads to a little pavilion --

some devout, some curious, some just eager to be near the

great man.

Godse moves forward through them toward the front just as

hushed voices begin to remark -- "I see him." "Here he comes!"

"Which one is Manu?"...

Apte and Karkare move to different sides of Godse, staying a

little behind, their movements sly and wary, aware of people

watching.

Featuring Gandhi. We see him distantly through the crowd.

The brown, wiry figure cloaked only in loincloth and shawl,

still weak from his last fast and moving without his customary

spring and energy as he is supported by his two grand nieces,

his "walking sticks," Manu and Abha.

We do not see him clearly until the very last moment -- only

glimpses of him as he smiles, and exchanges little jokes

with some of the crowd and the two young women who support

him, occasionally joining his hands together in greeting to

someone in particular, then once more proceeding with a hand

on the shoulder of each of the girls.

The camera keeps moving closer, and the point of view is

always Godse's, but Gandhi is always in profile or half

obscured by the heads and shoulders of those in front. We

hear the occasional click of a camera, and we intercut with

shots of Godse moving tensely up through the crowd, of Apte

and Karkare on the periphery of the crowd, watching with

sudden fear and apprehension, like men paralysed by the

presence of danger.

Featuring Godse. He slides through to the very front rank.

His breathing is short and there is perspiration around the

sides of his temples. And now, for an instant we see Gandhi

close from his point of view. He is only a few steps away,

but turned to speak to someone on the other side, and Manu

half obscures him.

Godse swallows dryly, tension lining his face -- then he

moves boldly out into Gandhi's path, bumping Manu, knocking

a vessel for incense from her hands.

Ignoring her, his nerves even more taut, Godse joins his

hands together and bows in greeting to the Mahatma.

And now we see Gandhi in full shot. The cheap glasses, the

nut-brown head, the warm, eager eyes. He smiles and joins

his hands together to exchange Godse's greeting.

Godse moves his right hand rapidly from the stance of prayer

to his jacket, in an instant -- it holds a gun, and he fires

point blank at Gandhi -- loud, startling -- once, twice...

thrice.

Gandhi's white shawl is stained with blood as he falls.

Amid the screams and sounds of chaos we dissolve through to

KINGSWAY - NEW DELHI - EXTERIOR - DAY

Close shot. Soldier's feet moving in the slow step, half-

step, step of the requiem march...

Full shot. The huge funeral procession -- crowds such as

have never been seen on the screen massed along the route.

People everywhere, clinging to monuments, lamp standards,

trees -- and as the camera pulls back from the funeral cortege

it reveals more and more... and more. All are silent. We

only hear a strange, rhythmic shuffling, pierced by an

occasional wail of grief. We see the soldiers and sailors

lining the route, their hands locked together in one seemingly

endless chain. We see the two hundred men of the Army, Navy

and Air Force drawing the Army weapon-carrier that bears the

body of Gandhi.

And finally we see Gandhi lying on the weapon-carrier,

surrounded by flowers, a tiny figure in this ocean of grief

and reverence.

THE COMMENTATORS' ROSTRUM - KINGSWAY - NEW DELHI - EXTERIOR -

DAY

Commentators from all over the world are covering the

ceremony. We concentrate on one, let us say the most

distinguished American broadcaster of the time, Edward R.

Murrow, who sits on the makeshift platform, a microphone

marked "CBS" before him, describing the procession as

technicians and staff move quietly around him.

KINGSWAY - NEW DELHI - EXTERIOR - DAY

As the cortege continues on its way, we get shots of the

marching soldiers, of the faces of Sikhs, and Tamils, Anglo-

Indians, Moslems from the north, Marathas from the south,

blue-eyed Parsees, dark-skinned Keralans...

We see the throng, following the weapon-carrier bier of Gandhi

as it slowly inches its way along the Kingsway.

Mountbatten, tall, handsome, bemedalled, walks at the head

of dignitaries from many lands... and behind them a broad

mass of Indians. For a moment we see their sandalled feet

moving along the roadway and realize their quiet, rhythmic

shuffling is the only noise this vast assemblage has produced.

In the crowd following the bier we pick out the tall, English

figure of Mirabehn, dressed in a sari, her face taut in a

grief that seems ready to break like the Ganges in flood.

Near her a tall, heavy-set man, Germanic, still powerful of

build and mien though his white hair and deep lines suggest

a man well into his sixties (Kallenbach). He too marches

with a kind of numb air of loss that is too personal for

national mourning.

On the edge of the street an American newspaperman (Walker)

watches as the bier passes him. He has been making notes,

but his hand stops now and we see the profile of Gandhi from

his point of view as the weapon-carrier silently rolls by.

It is personal, close. Walker clenches his teeth and there

is moisture in his eyes as he looks down. He tries to bring

his attention to his pad again, but his heart is not in it

and he stares with hollow emptiness at the street and the

horde of passing feet following the bier.

The camera picks out those who ride on the weapon-carrier

with Gandhi's body... the stout, blunt, but now shattered

Patel, Gandhi's son, Devadas, the strong, almost fierce face

of Maulana Azad, now angry at the Gods themselves... and

finally Pandit Nehru -- a face with the strength of a hero,

the sensitivity of a poet, and now wounded like the son of a

loving father.

A news truck is parked in the mass of the crowd. As the

cortege nears, the photographers on it stand to snap their

pictures. There is a newsreel crew center. The camera features

a woman photographer (Margaret Bourke-White) who sits with

her legs dangling over the side of the truck, her famous

camera held loosely in her hand, un-regarded, as she watches

the body of Gandhi approach. The intelligent features are

betrayed by the emotion in her eyes. For an instant we see

Gandhi from her point of view, and read the personal impact

it has on her.

The camera is high and we see the cortege from the rear,

moving off down the vast esplanade, its narrowing path parting

the sea of humanity like a long trail across a weaving

plain... and as the shuffling sound of sandalled feet fades

in the distance we dissolve through to

RAILROAD - SOUTH AFRICA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

With the camera high we see a railroad track stretching out

across a darkly verdant plain, and suddenly the whistle of a

train as its engine and light sweep under the camera,

startling us as it sweeps across the moonlit landscape.

Tracking with the train. We begin at the guard's van, dwelling

for a moment on the words "South African Railways," then

pass on to the dimly lit Third Class coaches in the rear of

the train, moving past the crowded Blacks and Indians in the

spare wooden accommodation... There are two or three such

coaches, then a Second Class coach... cushioned seats, better

lighting, a smattering of Europeans: farmers, clerks, young

families. Their clothes indicate the date: the early 1890s.

The conductor is working his way through this coach, checking

tickets... The track continues to the First Class coach --

linen over the seats, well-lit luxurious compartments. We

pass a single European, and then come to rest on the back of

a young Indian dressed in a rather dandified Victorian attire,

and reading as a Black porter stows his luggage.

FIRST CLASS COACH - SOUTH AFRICAN RAILWAYS - INTERIOR -

NIGHT

Featuring the young Indian. It is the young Gandhi -- a full

head of hair, a somewhat sensuous face, only the eyes help

us to identify him as the man we saw at Birla House, the

figure on the bier in Delhi. He is lost in his book and there

is a slight smile on his face as though what he reads

intrigues and surprises him. He grins suddenly at some

insight, then looks out of the window, weighing the idea.

As he does the European passes the compartment and stops

dead on seeing an Indian face in the First Class section.

The porter glances at the European nervously. Gandhi pivots

to the porter, holding his place in the book, missing the

European, who has moved on down the corridor, altogether. We

see the cover of the book: The Kingdom of God is Within You,

by Leo Tolstoy.

The porter has glanced down the corridor, where from his

point of view we can just glimpse the European talking with

the conductor.

He looks up suddenly then turns back quickly to his work.

Gandhi glances at the door to see what has frightened him

so.

The European and the conductor push open the door and stride

in.

Gandhi is incredulous that he is being addressed in such a

manner.

He's taken out the ticket but there is a bit of bluster in

his attitude and it is cut off by a cold rebuff from the

European.

He gestures to the back of the train. Gandhi is nonplussed

and beginning to feel a little less sure of himself. The

porter, wanting to avoid trouble, reaches for Gandhi's

suitcases.

He reaches into this waistcoat and produces a card which he

presents to the conductor.

Gandhi is still puzzled by his belligerence, but is beginning

to react to it, this time with a touch of irony.

The Porter stares -- amazed!

He turns and walks out of the compartment.

MARITZBURG STATION - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

Gandhi's luggage is thrown onto the station platform. A blast

of steam from the engine.

A policeman and the conductor are pulling Gandhi from the

First Class car. Gandhi is clinging to the safety rails by

the door, a briefcase clutched firmly in one hand. The

European cracks on Gandhi's hands with his fist, breaking

Gandhi's grip and the policeman and conductor push him across

the platform. It is ugly and demeaning. Disgustedly, the

conductor shakes himself and signals for the train to start.

Gandhi rights himself on the platform, picking up his

briefcase, his face a mixture of rage, humiliation, impotence.

The conductor hurls Gandhi's book at his feet as the train

starts to move.

Gandhi picks up the book, looking off at the departing train.

A lamp swinging in the wind alternately throws his face into

light and darkness.

His point of view. The Black porter stares out of a window

at him, then we see the European taking his seat again,

righteously. The conductor standing in the door, watching

Gandhi even as the train pulls out. Then the Second Class

coach, with people standing at the window to stare at Gandhi --

then the Third Class coaches, again with Blacks and a few

Indians looking at Gandhi with mystification and a touch of

fear.

Gandhi stands with a studied air of defiance as the train

pulls away -- but when it is gone he is suddenly very aware

of his isolation and looks around the cold, dark platform

with self-conscious embarrassment.

A Black railway worker looks as if he would like to express

sympathy, but he cannot find the courage and turns away from

Gandhi's gaze, pulling his collar up against the piercing

wind.

The policeman who pulled Gandhi from the train talks with

the ticket-taker under the gas-lit entrance gate, both of

them staring off at Gandhi.

An Indian woman near the entrance sits in a woolen sari, her

face half-veiled. A small child sleeps in her arms, and there

is a tattered bundle of clothing at her feet. She turns away

from Gandhi's gaze as though it brought the plague itself.

MR. BAKER'S LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR - NIGHT

Featuring Gandhi. As if a reverse angle from the previous

shot, he is angry, baffled, defiant.

We are in a large Victorian parlor in a well-to-do home.

Facing Gandhi are Khan, a tall, impressive Indian. Singh,

slighter and older than Khan, but wiry and looking capable

of physical as well as intellectual strength, and Khan's

twenty-year-old son, Tyeb Mohammed.

It is said with a dignity and strength that makes the

statement all the more bewildering. Gandhi looks around

helplessly. We see Mr. Baker, a wealthy white lawyer, whose

home this is, poking at the fire, slightly amused at Gandhi's

naivete.

Gandhi is holding a British legal document; he lifts it

pointedly.

Gandhi looks at Mr. Baker almost in disbelief.

Mr. Baker smothers a smile.

Gandhi looks at Khan incredulously.

He smiles, but his eyes show that it is no joke.

Gandhi glances from one to the other them -- absorbing the

inconceivable. And then almost before our eyes his innocence

of the world fuses with his anger at the injustice of it

all.

He lifts the documents threateningly.

Its tone is chilling, and Gandhi's firmness is shaken a

little.

The sturdy Khan is studying him with a look of wry interest.

Gandhi glances at Tyeb Mohammed and Baker, then stiffens,

plainly frightened by the challenge, but just as plainly

determined to take it.

MOSQUE - EXTERIOR - DAY

We see a rather crudely stitched sign: "Indian Congress Party

of South Africa." Gandhi, now sporting a moustache, stands

with Khan and Singh near a fire that has been started in the

open area before the Mosque. A wire basket has been placed

on supports over the fire. Before them, a small crowd, mostly

Indian (Hindus, Sikhs, Muslims), but with a few Whites drawn

by curiosity. Gandhi whispers, trying to ignore the crowd.

We see the English reporter waiting skeptically. Near him,

trying to be inconspicuous on the edge of the small crowd,

are five policemen (one sergeant and four constables). A

horse-drawn paddy wagon is drawn up beside them.

We see five or six women in saris standing together.

We feature Gandhi's wife, Ba, standing at the front of the

women. She possesses a surprising delicacy of feature, with

large expressive eyes and a beautiful mouth -- but at this

moment she is ill at ease and uncertain, forcing herself to

do that which she would rather not.

Gandhi wets his lips nervously. He glances with a little

apprehension at the police, then takes his notes from his

pocket and moves to the front of the fire. He holds up his

hand for attention. He forces a smile -- then starts reading --

It is flat and dull, like someone reading a speech to

themselves, and those in the crowd who had hesitated before

wandering off shrug and continue on their way. Gandhi is

unnerved by it a little but he struggles on -- louder, but

just as colorlessly.

This last has come more firmly, and he lifts his head to the

crowd, as though expecting a reaction. Three or four committed

supporters applaud as on cue, but his technique is so inexpert

that it draws nothing but blank faces from the bulk of them.

He glances nervously at Ba, who is embarrassed for them both

now. She wraps her sari more closely around her and her

expression is a wife's "I told you so" -- sufferance,

mortification and loyalty, all in one. Gandhi wets his lips

again -- and takes a square of cardboard from his pocket --

his "pass."

He holds it up. A constable glances at the police sergeant.

And he turns and drops his pass in the wire basket over the

fire. The flames engulf it.

The police sergeant's eyes go wide with disbelief. The crowd

murmurs in shock. At last Gandhi has got a reaction, but the

dropping of the card has been as matter-of-fact as his

speaking, with none of the drama one might expect from so

startling a gesture. Even so, a constable glances at the

police sergeant again, "Do we take him?". The sergeant just

shakes his head, "Wait."

Khan moves up to Gandhi as the tremor of reaction ripples

through the crowd.

He takes Gandhi's notes from him, and faces the crowd.

It is the end of the speech. He looks at the crowd. No one

knows quite what to do. Gandhi harumphs -- gesturing to a

shallow box Singh holds. Kahn turns back, extemporizing rather

lamely.

He has stepped forward with his constables, who have faced

the crowd, halting the tentative movements of the few

committed supporters toward the fire.

He is facing the crowd. Behind him, Khan holds himself erect

and slowly takes his own card from his pocket. He holds it

aloft and then lowers it resolutely into the wire basket.

The crowd reacts and the sergeant turns just in time to see

it dropped in the flame.

He gestures to a constable, who turns from the crowd and

marches to Khan, seizing him by the arm and marching him to

the paddy wagon. As he passes the sergeant, the sergeant

takes his billy club, and faces the crowd, rapping the club

menacingly against his hand.

Behind him, Gandhi wavers indecisively a moment, then takes

the box from Singh and moves to the fire. Ba holds her hand

to her mouth -- terrified. Again the crowd's reaction turns

the sergeant. Gandhi is at the fire. For a second, his eyes

lock with the sergeant's -- and then nervously, he takes a

card and drops it in the wire basket, and another.

He has leapt across the distance between them, knocking the

box from Gandhi's hands, sending the cards flying and shoving

Gandhi to the ground. He turns and faces the crowd angrily,

pointing the billy club threateningly.

Again, a murmur from the crowd turns him. Gandhi, on his

hands and knees, blood trickling from his abraded cheek, has

picked up a card from the ground and he leans forward

apprehensively, his eyes fearfully on the sergeant, but he

drops it defiantly in the basket. The sergeant's fury bursts --

and he slams the billy club down on Gandhi's head. Gandhi

sags to the ground. Ba screams. She starts to run to him,

but the other women seize her.

She fights loose, but one of the constables takes her firmly.

The sergeant turns from the commotion to see that Gandhi,

his head oozing blood, has crawled to his knees again and is

picking up another card. The crowd watches. The newspaper

reporter watches. Ba stares in anguish. Gandhi lifts the

card. The sergeant stares at him, angry but his emotions

somewhat in control after the first blow.

An instant of hesitation, then Gandhi drops the card into

the basket. The sergeant almost stops, but he strikes again.

A quiver of distaste at his own act crosses his face as Gandhi

sags.

Ba's anguished face is wet with tears. The newspaper reporter

stares without making notes. Khan, at the paddy wagon, watches

in wonder.

Gandhi, his head bleeding badly now, rises to his knees -- a

breath and he gropes around the ground for another card. His

fingers finally clutch one.

The sergeant stares, his face wracked with uncertainty and

confusion.

Gandhi lifts the card and painfully holds it over the fire,

then drops it in the basket.

The sergeant slams the billy club down again -- firmly, but

with a manifest reluctance. The crowd watches breathlessly,

the newspaper reporter stares. The sergeant draws a breath,

grasping the club, but he bites his lip as he sees Gandhi

lift his head feebly, his shaking hands, stained with his

own blood, groping for another card...

GANDHI'S BEDROOM - SOUTH AFRICA - INTERIOR - NIGHT

Ba is gently removing Gandhi's suit coat, staring fearfully

at a bandage on his head, another along the side of his face.

The room is gaslit, overfurnished in the Victorian manner.

Middle class. Gandhi sits carefully on the bed, where some

newspapers are spread out, English-language ones among them.

Ba reaches forth, gently touching the bandages on his head.

Gandhi doesn't take his eyes from the papers, but he shakes

his head.

He smiles whimsically, then turns back to the papers.

Ba stares at the back of his head, wounded by that remark,

bearing it as stoically as he bore the blows against him.

Before Gandhi can retort there is a knock on the door.

A small, round ayah (an Indian nursemaid) pushes open the

door and proudly admits her charges, Gandhi's sons: Harilal

(ten), Manilal (six) and Ramdas (two). They are all dressed

in European suits, ties and stiff collars. They step forward,

one by one, making the pranam (the Hindu gesture of greeting),

then bending and touching the hands and lips to Gandhi's

feet in the traditional obeisance of child to father.

Gandhi smiles.

And Ramdas runs to him and Gandhi bends to kiss him as Ramdas

put his arms around his neck.

Gandhi pats him indulgently, then carefully stands erect,

looking at them all with satisfaction.

The two older boys show the expected apprehension -- and

interest. Gandhi nods to the ayah. She claps her hands

smartly.

The boys bow and leave like boys used to household discipline.

The ayah closes the door and we hear their chatter at they

go down the hall.

Gandhi is stretching out on the bed, taking up another paper.

Ba comes and sits down on the bed beside him, maneuvering so

that she can get at the bandage.

Ba pauses and looks at him mischievously, as though that's

not a bad idea. He scowls at her, then recognizes her "joke"

and grins.

Ba pulls one of the strands of tape and Gandhi flinches.

Gandhi is nursing the moustache; he looks at her wryly.

She leans forward to pull at the remaining piece.

Gandhi is watching her as she leans across him, her beauty

and proximity obviously stirring him.

She has pulled the other piece.

And she slowly pries the gauze free from the strands of hair

above his lip. As she does Gandhi watches her more and more

intently, and slips his arms around her back.

Ba examines the bandage and gently touches the wound, but

she is aware of his burning eyes and arms around her back.

It slows Gandhi uneasily for a moment and Ba must grin at

his discomfiture. He leans back -- still holding her, but

looking at the ceiling.

Ba makes a moue of acceptance and starts to pull free of him --

but his arms still hold her. She smothers a smile and lies

down, her face next to his, but neither of them looking at

each other. A long beat... and then Gandhi turns his head.

She is aware of his eyes on her, but she doesn't move. Gandhi

leans forward and touches his lips to her neck.

Ba smiles. Still not looking at him, she places her hand

behind his head, gently.

Gandhi laughs... and buries her in love.

STREET AND COURTYARD OF GOVERNMENT BUILDING - JOHANNESBURG -

EXTERIOR - MORNING

General Smuts -- sitting erect and imposing on a beautiful

chestnut horse -- rides down a tree-lined street. He wears

civilian clothes with riding boots and breeches. Behind him,

a junior British officer rides as escort. He turns into the

entrance-way of an imposing building.

The hooves of Smuts's horse clatter on the cobblestones as

the General rides into the courtyard. Two sentries come

smartly to attention. A stable boy rushes to take the horse,

and a tall civil servant approaches the General busily as he

dismounts.

The tall civil servant checks his notes.

Smuts has given the reins to the stable boy.

And he strides into the building, past the smartly saluting

sentries.

GANDHI'S HOUSE - JOHANNESBURG - EXTERIOR - MORNING

Gandhi comes from the house door. He carries a briefcase and

is still dressed in European clothes, though far less elegant

than we have seen him in before. His mien, the cut of his

hair, all suggest a passage of time. As he turns, he stops

because he is face to face with Charlie Andrews, a very tall,

thin Englishman, who wears a rumpled white suit and a clerical

collar. He has descended from a horse-drawn taxi that carries

his luggage. He too has stopped. For a moment they both

appraise each other, neither speaking. Then

He turns and waves to the parlor window. The three boys are

there -- all bigger -- and Ba holds a new addition; they all

wave. And Gandhi turns back, and starts down the long, hilly

street.

He gestures Charlie on and starts walking.

Charlie nods uncertainly. He looks back at the cab in

confusion, then signals the driver to follow and hurries on

to match strides with Gandhi's brisk pace.

JOHANNESBURG SUBURB - EXTERIOR - MORNING

They have come to a turning, nearer to town, the area poorer,

run-down. Ahead of them three youths (twenty, twenty-one) in

working clothes, carrying lunch boxes, lean indolently against

a building directly in their path. They react to the sight

of Gandhi -- fun. Then stride the pavement menacingly. One

of them tosses aside his cigarette.

Gandhi restrains him and shakes his head.

He starts to move forward. Charlie hesitates, then follows

nervously, more nervous for Gandhi than himself.

They are getting closer. The youths laughing, whispering.

One youth has flicked his cigarette -- hard. It lands at

Gandhi's feet. He pauses, looking at the youth.

He starts forward again, he is almost on the youths -- clearly

frightened, but...

And he reaches forth to haul Gandhi from the pavement, but --

A woman is leaning out of an upstairs window, looking down

at the fracas disconcertedly. It is the first youth's mother

and her presence reduces the pitch of his hostility

considerably.

A snickering response from the other youths -- but they are

embarrassed by the questioning disapproval of Colin's mother's

attitude. There's no note of apology in her cold stare at

Gandhi, but she clearly believes her son should not be doing

what he is doing.

The moment of crisis has passed. Nothing will happen while

she is there.

Gandhi steps back on the pavement, addressing the first youth.

And he steps around him, Charlie trailing, as the first youth

stares at them sullenly.

As they stride on, Charlie glancing back --

Gandhi laughs as they turn the corner.

BUSY STREET - JOHANNESBURG - EXTERIOR - MORNING

A busy street in the center of the town. Gandhi and Charlie

come around the corner into it.

He has paused before an office and a young girl (Sonja) has

come from it to speak to him about something of urgency, but

she hovers, not interrupting.

And now he turns to Sonja. Behind her we see the small office

"M.K. Gandhi/Attorney." Several clients waits, most of them

conspicuously poor. Sonja's tone is loaded with foreboding.

Gandhi absorbs the news stiffly.

SMUTS'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY

A strong masculine hand scrawls a signature across a document.

Beneath the signature we see the boldly printed

identification: Jan Christian Smuts.

Another angle. A cameraman records the moment with a flash

photo. General Smuts, whose presence is equal to his office,

addresses someone out of shot as a male secretary removes

the document.

The reporter who stands opposite him is Walker, much, much

younger, almost boyish compared to the way we saw him at the

funeral.

Smuts has risen. He knows how to concede with grace.

The gaze is firm, strong, cynical...

TENT - THE FARM - EXTERIOR - DAY

The sides are half up, but it is dusty and hot. This is where

the magazine Indian Opinion is printed and we see stacks of

it lying around. A short Westerner (Albert West) is running

the simple printing press which is powered by a crude

generator. A small staff helping him. A Sikh, a Muslim, a

couple of Hindus, two young boys.

Gandhi and Walker are approaching the tent from the river,

Gandhi discoursing earnestly.

They've reached the entrance to the tent, and he gestures

in.

This last remark has been directed toward Charlie Andrews,

who sits near them at a cluttered table, typing on an old

typewriter. He waves, and Gandhi shouts out to them all over

the putt-putt of the generator:

They nod. One of the Hindus bows with his hands clasped

together. Gandhi hands Walker a copy of Indian Opinion and

they start across the relatively barren field toward some

other tents, Walker glancing at the paper. Gandhi watches

him, grinning.

This carries a weight and apprehension that none of the rest

of the conversation has. Walker measures Gandhi with a little

surprise.

Gandhi seems trapped by an ineluctable fact.

Reluctant as it is, it too carries commitment and Walker

senses it. But they have come by a site where a building is

being erected, and a European (Kallenbach) is perched above

a doorway on the half-completed structure, getting a level.

Some Indians are working below him. Gandhi turns to him,

light-hearted again.

Walker waves his notebook at him and Kallenbach lifts his

level in greeting. On his bronzed chest there is a Star of

David. Walker looks around, grinning, shaking his head. We

see two women in saris trying to quell some squabbling

children in the background.

Walker looks at him appraisingly.

A moment of embarrassed doubt, then he starts toward a half-

finished building -- wooden sides, door, but canvas still

covering the roof. It has an awning spread before it. Walker's

carriage is tethered nearby, a Black driver standing in the

sun, waiting. In the background we see two women cleaning a

latrine. Walker glances at the latrine.

As we have approached we see a table set for tea under the

awning. There are two places. Having set the places, Ba is

walking along the side of the building, away from them. She

glances at Gandhi tautly and deliberately avoids speaking or

acknowledging him.

Ba looks at him coldly.

She turns back and walks into the building by the rear

entrance. Gandhi is disconcerted by her attitude, but he

tries to answer Walker.

A grin -- but forced. When a girl (Sora) comes from the

building bringing another cup and place setting, Gandhi calls

to the driver.

And he goes into the building, determined to find the source

of Ba's aloofness.

GANDHI'S HUT - INTERIOR - DAY

Ba is sitting sullenly on a carpet near the rear entrance to

the building. She does not look up at Gandhi, but she is

aware of his presence. He crosses and stands in front of her

with all the irritation of a husband. It is hushed, aware

that Walker might overhear them, but bristling with suppressed

anger.

Now Ba looks at him hostilely.

He holds her gaze as angrily as she holds his.

As she starts to rise he grabs her arm, but she pulls free.

She says it derisively and it stings, but Gandhi is aware of

Walker and he fights to hold his temper.

Ba settles back defiantly.

For a moment Gandhi stares at her, and she back at him,

resentfully. He suddenly reaches down and grabs her arm,

pulling her roughly to her feet.

It is hushed but violent as he pulls her toward the rear

door, opening it to push her out as she struggles against

him.

She lurches free of his grip, glaring at him angrily. For a

moment they both stare at each other, shattered by their

violence.

Gandhi stares at her breathlessly, his temper subsiding into

a dazed remorse. He sinks numbly to a stool, sitting, holding

his head in his hands. Ba studies him for a moment -- and

she sighs, her temper and breathing subsiding too. She moves

and kneels before him.

A moment, then she soothes the top of his head -- like the

mother-wife she is.

Gandhi looks up at her, blankly, abjectly.

And Gandhi grins weakly. Ba catches it and sends it back,

warmer, less complicated by doubts. Gandhi sighs, putting

his arms around her and she leans into him so that their

heads are touching.

Ba mutters "Hm" and holds him a little firmer. A moment.

Ba nods.

Gandhi holds her back so that he can look at her. She looks

at him evenly -- no smile, but the warmth still in her eyes.

IMPERIAL THEATER - INTERIOR - NIGHT

The theater is packed. The front rows near the stage are

held by rich Muslim merchants, the back of the stalls with

small traders, peddlers, artisans -- Muslim, Hindu, Parsee,

Sikh. The gallery is bulging with indentured laborers --

largely Hindu. The mood is restless, belligerent.

On the stage. Gandhi moves forward and he holds up his hand

for silence. Seated on the stage are Khan, Singh, three more

leaders of the Indian community. Charlie Andrews and Herman

Kallenbach sit at the very end of the line of chairs. Gandhi

looks around the audience and we see the packed house from

his point of view, ending with two plainclothes European

policemen conspicuous in seats at the end of the front row.

A uniformed policeman stands near them.

A buzz, then applause -- loud and defiant. When is subsides

Gandhi looks down at the plainclothes policemen, fixing his

gaze on them.

And again the audience bursts into applause. The policemen

just sit like stone -- confident, sure, immune to rhetoric.

In the gallery a rhythmic pounding signals the anger and

protest and is taken up around the hall. The police stare

imperturbably. Khan leans towards Singh, nodding to Gandhi.

Singh smiles at the understatement. Gandhi holds up his hand,

silencing the hall.

Gandhi just waits.

Now a violent response -- a large, powerful merchant rises

in the third row.

Another cheer. When it subsides, Tyeb Mohammed rises near

the back, where he is seated with a number of other young

men.

The police half rise to look back at him, but there is a

smattering of applause and several stand to look back.

And now there is general applause. Gandhi waits, then

He looks at the audience. This is the more sober Gandhi they

have come to know.

He looks down at the police, making the point stick. There

is a tentative reaction from the audience, but uncertain.

He has their attention now.

And now he gets the response he has wanted. Firm, mature,

determined. Gandhi holds up his hand.

He looks at the audience. A second, then a merchant stands,

signifying his pledge. And then another. Then Tyeb Mohammed

and the youths about him. Then all over the theater they

begin to stand and on the stage until everyone is standing.

It is all done is silence. Gandhi looks at the full theater --

all standing. He takes a step forward.

A prison door slams: we are close on one face, another slam,

another face, and again and again in the rhythm of marching

feet...

MINE AREA - EXTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi, Singh and Tyeb Mohammed are leading a large procession

of Indian mine workers along a dirt road from a mining complex --

sheds, elevator platforms, pulleys -- toward a distant city.

We see crude, handworked banners: "We are Citizens of the

Empire," "Justice for All," "One King -- One Law"...

Tyeb Mohammed suddenly touches Gandhi's arm and nods ahead.

Their point of view. A canvas-topped open touring car (circa

1910) pulls out from a turning between two factory buildings

and comes towards them.

Resume Gandhi. There is a little hesitation in the ranks as

the car approaches. In it we can see two uniformed policemen

and a civilian.

The car swings across the center of the road and stops right

in front of Gandhi.

The civilian smiles slowly. He looks from Gandhi to the

miners.

The civilian looks at him sharply, then smiles derisively,

signaling the car off. As it pulls away, Tyeb Mohammed and

Singh come up to Gandhi, both made wary by the man's evident

satisfaction with what has transpired.

Gandhi watches the disappearing car worriedly, then turns

and signals the miners on. They start forward.

Their point of view. The car rides on past the factory

building out of which it turned, and suddenly mounted police

come swinging out from the buildings and face the procession.

Tracking back before Gandhi, Singh and Tyeb Mohammed as they

move forward, fear suddenly making their pace more labored.

Tracking back before the mounted police.

They come on fast, batons at the ready. Gandhi screws up his

courage, marching on. Tyeb Mohammed sets his jaw in defiance.

Singh forces himself along at Gandhi's side. The mounted

police riding on, batons at the ready.

Featuring an Indian miner. He is in the front rank of the

procession, watching the horses approach. He has a blunt

farmer's face.

He starts to go down, and others around him, convinced by

the authority of his voice.

The sense of the idea seizes Gandhi, and as the sound of the

galloping horses nears, he turns and shouts too.

And the miners begin to go down, some face up, shielding

their faces with their hands, some burying their faces in

the earth and covering their heads with their hands.

Close fast traveling, the sergeant's point of view. We arrive

at the prone miners.

Close on Gandhi, his arms crossed in front of his face,

staring up, frightened, but determined to bear it.

Wide angle. The horses cannot bring themselves to gallop

over the human carpet; they rear, plunge, swerve.

Close shot -- miner who shouted "down." He is peering through

his crossed hands, a tight smile of satisfaction at knowledge

confirmed. He turns to see:

The sergeant thrown off his horse. He lands heavily, scrambles

up, furious, darts after it. Mounting, he is enraged to hear

laughter.

Close shot. Singh and the miner who shouted "Down" kneeling,

grinning at the chaos.

Singh smiles, but suddenly looks up fearfully. The sergeant

looms over them.

And without taking his booted foot from the stirrup he swings

it into the miner's face. The man goes down, bleeding.

An angry roar from the miners. Several stand and shake their

fists. "Bastard!," "God damn you, Englishman!," "Jackal!"

The wounded miner himself starts to stagger up.

The sergeant sweeps them, his eyes glittering -- this he can

deal with. But --

It is a command, and angry in its own way, but it carries

all the weight of his influence on them. They begin to go

down again and the sergeant wheels his horse and rides at

Gandhi.

With deliberate, almost fatalistic pace, Gandhi goes first

to his knees and then sprawls down flat, his hands over the

top of his head, awaiting the blow of the horse's hoof.

Close shot, the horse's head, its eyes rolling as it swerves

again.

Close shot, the sergeant controlling it, cursing, but unable

to make it plunge down on the man.

Full shot, the sergeant wheeling his horse, angrily --

surveying the whole of the procession as they lie sprawled

on the ground, his mounted police circling in front of them,

not knowing what to do.

He turns his horse angrily and gallops back toward the

factories.

Gandhi, Singh and Tyeb Mohammed are looking off at the

retreating horses. The car with the civilian has returned in

the distance.

Gandhi looks at the miner who first shouted "Down" -- a smile,

a nod of recognition and thanks. The miner grins, rubbing at

the blood on his face, shrugging off Gandhi's implied praise.

Featuring the police. The sergeant wheels by the car with

the civilian; his police turn their horses, lining up across

the road again.

Their point of view. Gandhi and the miners coming on once

more, chanting forcefully. "One King! One Law! One King! One

Law!"

SMALL CHURCH - SOUTH AFRICA - INTERIOR - DAY

We are close on Charlie Andrews.

The congregation is listening to him stiffly,

unsympathetically, and there is more than one murmur of assent

at his words. The clergyman who has given Charlie the use of

his pulpit sits beneath it, embarrassed, but sticking

resolutely to his decision to give Charlie a hearing.

A few men in the congregation rise and pointedly escort their

families from the church. Charlie struggles on.

More of the congregation rise and march from the church...

though a few pointedly do not.

PRISON YARD - EXTERIOR - DAY

Small, packed. Gandhi is threading his way in a line for

soup. But it is a line that winds through masses of prisoners,

some with bowls, eating, some not yet in the line.

As Gandhi near the two stone blocks that hold the large

barrels of soup, he sees that Khan is serving from one of

them. He too wears a prison uniform and there is a bandage

on his head. When he turns and reacts to the sight of Gandhi --

He takes his soup from Khan.

Gandhi smiles, but they turn as the gate opens and a paddy

wagon is backed into the press of prisoners. Khan shakes his

head.

Gandhi looks around the crowded yard at the soiled bandages,

the defiant, determined faces.

He is distracted by a phalanx of guards (an officer and four

men) pushing their way through the prisoners.

The prisoners are moving back from them resentfully but their

glances reveal who Gandhi is. The prison officer's eyes fall

on him.

CITY STREET - JOHANNESBURG - EXTERIOR - DAY

A side street, but active. Gandhi -- now manacled -- is being

marched down the pavement before two guards. The prison

officer strides in front of them. People in the street stop

and turn, staring. That part of Gandhi that is still the

dandy is discomfited, but there is a growing part of him

that defies appearances.

Featuring a doorway. It is the side door of a large imposing

building. The prison officer leads his little procession

toward it. He knocks and the door opens. The tall civil

servant has been waiting for them. The prison officer reaches

forward and undoes Gandhi's manacles.

GOVERNMENT BUILDING - INTERIOR - DAY

The tall civil servant, moving with aloof distaste for his

assignment, walks ahead of Gandhi, who in turn is followed

by one of the prison guards, toward a grand staircase that

is at right angles to them (i.e. facing the front of the

building). People working in offices pause to stare at Gandhi

as he moves along, more uncomfortably aware of his prison

garb than ever.

The grand staircase. The tall civil servant turns and starts

up the staircase. Gandhi is even more exposed to everyone's

surveillance on the wide, white expanse of the stairway. He

hesitates, looking around in discomfort, then follows the

tall civil servant on toward the large, white doors at the

top of the staircase.

SMUTS'S ANTEROOM - INTERIOR - DAY

The tall white doors open, the tall civil servant indicates

that Gandhi enter. Gandhi passes two male secretaries, and

the tall civil servant scoots decorously around him to knock

once on the inner doors. Then he pushes them open and gestures

Gandhi in.

SMUTS'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY

We have seen it before when Walker spoke to Smuts, but now

we see its full breadth -- and the imposing figure Smuts

makes as he stands behind the grand desk.

He nods to the tall civil servant, who bows and closes the

door. Smuts crosses the room toward a small cabinet.

Smuts looks at Gandhi, a little surprised at the frigid tone

of that refusal.

He appraises Gandhi, measuring the irony of his words, his

determination. Then with a little sigh at the lost opportunity

he replaces the stopper on the sherry, turns and gestures

Gandhi on into the room.

He has indicated a chair near his desk, but as Gandhi goes

forward he pauses by a spread of papers from England on a

long table near the middle of the room. We see one headline

in close shot: "Thousands Imprisoned in South Africa/Mines

Close. Crops Unharvested," a subhead, "Gandhi Leads Non-

Violent Campaign." He looks at Smuts. Smuts smiles, a passing

nod at the papers.

Smuts smiles.

A wry smile, and he sits on the edge of the chair Smuts has

directed him to. Smuts measures him again, not absolutely

certain how to deal with him. A pause, and he affects to

take Gandhi's irony at face value.

And Gandhi does understand it -- as a guiding principle.

Never humiliate your enemy. And his tone conveys it.

Smuts does a slight double take, a smile, then the "tough"

politician.

He measures Gandhi challengingly, obviously expecting some

contest. Gandhi mulls it, then

Smuts stares at him... a moment, then

And now Smuts smiles with him. He bends suddenly and signs a

group of documents.

Gandhi stands, a little uncertain about the sudden change in

his status. Smuts signs the last document, then sees Gandhi's

doubt -- and misreads it.

The tall civil servant (Daniels) enters.

Daniel stares.

Still a little confused, Daniels reaches in his pocket and

produces a shilling. He hands it to Gandhi.

He bows slightly and starts out the door. Daniels immediately

starts to accompany him, but Gandhi stops. A beat.

And his own steel shows in the oblique reference to the

ignominy of his way in. Daniel bows, and he and Smuts just

stare as the uniformed "prisoner" goes out through the grand

doors, past the stunned men in the office to the outer doors

and on to the grand staircase. The prison guard appears in

the doorway, looking off in confusion at Gandhi, then back

at the office for guidance. Daniels simply shakes his head

"Let him be."

Finally, when Gandhi has disappeared down the stairs, Daniels

turns to Smuts.

THE PIER AT BOMBAY - EXTERIOR - DAY

Ship's siren, military band... a jubilant crowd on the pier,

passengers waving to the receiving crowd. A group of First

Class passengers, ninety percent English, look down from the

upper deck.

From their point of view. We see the main section of the

pier, a crowd of mostly European civilians on one side. A

mass of military on the other: European officers, topees and

swagger sticks, Indian cavalry, Gurkha infantry, Sikh lanoers --

turbans, rifles, bugles, an Indian military band -- a showy

awe-inspiring display.

Featuring two Englishmen. First Class passengers, white suits,

Oxbridge accents; one quite young, the other a bit older,

both civil servants coming to "administer" India.

Their point of view. A British general is coming down the

gangplank accompanied by his ADC. The officer commanding and

the Guard of Honor await him.

The young Englishman glances at him quizzically. The General

has taken the salute and moves to inspect the troops to the

accompaniment of the military band.

He is suddenly aware of a well-dressed Indian half-listening

to their conversation. He glances at him and the well-dressed

Indian simply nods slightly and moves off a little. The second

Englishman grimaces at the young Englishman and looks down

again.

He is looking aft. His point of view.

Another far less elaborate gangplank extends from the aft

section of the ship. Third Class passengers are disembarking

here, and on shore, separated by a wire fence from the rest

of the pier. A large crowd of Indians is reacting excitedly

to someone coming down the gangplank but we can't yet see

that person.

The young Englishman glances back at the well-dressed Indian

to make sure of his distance, then speaks quietly.

Their point of view.

There has been a little hiatus in those disembarking but now

Gandhi has appeared, coming down the gangplank with Ba and

the children (grown-up sons now), and three or four people

behind them, including the tall figure of Charlie Andrews.

But Gandhi is wearing an Indian tunic and sandals and he has

shaved his hair except for a central section on the top.

The young Englishman glances back cautiously toward the well-

dressed Indian again, then

THE PIER - THIRD CLASS AREA - EXTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi is smiling, trying to move on, but answering the

questions of an Indian journalist.

He speaks with an uncertainty and tentativeness that he had

lost in South Africa, patently overwhelmed by the reception.

An English journalist catches him as he turns.

An exuberant woman puts a garland over his shoulders.

He smiles uncertainly again. As he turns he is face to face

with an American reporter.

An Indian reporter has cornered Ba behind him.

Gandhi half-twists to hear Ba's answer, but his arm is taken

by a young Indian (Nehru) in elegant European clothes. Another

garland is thrown over his shoulders.

Featuring Ba. Offhand, her eyes on Gandhi ahead.

She joins her hands, acknowledging a garland placed around

her shoulders, and pushes on after Gandhi. Charlie helps to

guide her.

Featuring Gandhi. The young Nehru, somewhat amused by all

the excitement, leads Gandhi through the crowd to a little

flower-covered platform. We see a banner: THE CONGRESS PARTY

WELCOMES GANDHI.

He grins. He has guided Gandhi to the first step of the

platform. Another garland is wrapped around Gandhi's

shoulders, and in some embarrassment, he mounts the platform.

There is a great cheer, but in the silence that follows we

hear the military band from across the way as the troops

prepare to march off. Gandhi looks around at the crowd.

Finally he speaks out.

He makes the pranam and starts for the steps. The crowd is a

little disappointed, but they manage a cheer and applause.

Nehru is standing next to a heavy-set, well-dressed man

(Patel). They exchange a wry glance, "Not exactly a world-

beater."

A car door slams. The camera pulls back. Nehru has slammed

the door of a gleaming Rolls Royce touring car, the top down.

He has seated Gandhi in it beside Patel, taking Gandhi's

knapsack. An Indian chauffeur rides in front. The crowd still

surges around and Gandhi is looking apprehensively back for

Ba.

He grins boyishly, in part to comfort, in part unable to

contain his amusement at Gandhi and his evident confusion.

PATEL'S CAR - STREETS OF BOMBAY - EXTERIOR - DAY

With Gandhi still looking back anxiously, the car pulls off.

He finally turns to Patel.

There are crowds along the street, and Gandhi -- in surprise

that they are for him -- waves tentatively. Patel waves too

but he eyes Gandhi rather critically.

They have come to a main thoroughfare. A crowd still lines

the streets but it is thin and around and between we see

groups of desperate poor, parked on the pavement, staring

with blank curiosity at the passing car, but too listless

and too out of touch to move from their little squatters'

patches.

Patel looks at Gandhi's clothes rather disapprovingly.

Gandhi is staring at the street. From his point of view we

hold on a gaunt young, aged woman holding a baby wrapped in

rags as threadbare as her sari. Another hollow-faced child

leans against her.

PATEL'S GARDEN - EXTERIOR - DAY

A splendid peacock, its tail fanned in brilliant display,

lords it on a velvet lawn. A woman in a sumptuous silk sari

is trying to feed it crumbs. Behind her, Gandhi's reception

is in full spate -- silver trays, tables covered in fine

linen, Indian servants, a swimming pool, a small fountain,

the grounds filled with Indian millionaires and dignitaries

gathered with their wives to meet the new hero from South

Africa.

A beautiful and beautifully dressed woman (Mrs. Nehru) stands

next to her distinguished husband (Motilal Nehru).

She nods lightly toward Nehru.

Featuring Nehru who is introducing Gandhi to two men, one

tall, slender, ascetic looking, but dressed impeccably

(Jinnah). The other with a haunting face -- beard, flowing

dark hair, the air of a poet or a ruthlessly dedicated radical

(Prakash -- whom we recognize from the opening sequence in

Delhi at Gandhi's assassination).

Gandhi has bowed to Jinnah, now he looks a little startled

at Prakash. Prakash grins and makes the pranam to Gandhi.

Gandhi nods...

He meets Prakash's gaze firmly, the first moment we have

seen any sign of the Gandhi of South Africa.

Charlie Andrews touches Gandhi's arm, excusing himself to

the others.

Gandhi bows to the others and is led off to an Indian bishop

in full clerical robes. Behind him we see Patel regaling a

small group with some story of court or society.

As Gandhi leaves, Jinnah, Nehru and Prakash watch him

clinically. Except for the servants, Gandhi is the only Indian

male not in European clothes.

Nehru grins slowly, thoughtfully.

We get a shot of Ba in a gathering of Indian women. She stands

listening, seemingly tongue-tied in the sophisticated patter.

And we cut to Charlie introducing Gandhi to a man in obvious

ill health, but well dressed, looking like the professor,

philosopher and elder statesman he is (Gokhale).

Gokhale is pleased, Gandhi amused. He bows very respectfully.

He has offered his hand during this, and Gandhi has helped

him from the garden chair he has been seated on, handing him

the cane that is resting against it.

Another grin. Gokhale has started to walk with him, looking

at him intently, penetratingly.

It is brusque but affectionate; we know he regards Charlie

as Gandhi does... and Charlie does too.

He still hasn't smiled, but Gandhi and Charlie have.

ANOTHER PART OF THE GARDEN

This is private -- beautiful and still. Gandhi walks along

slowly, taking the pace of the ailing Gokhale.

He grins self-deprecatingly but Gokhale persists.

He pauses and looks at Gandhi -- and for the first time he

smiles. When he speaks his voice is thick with feeling.

His eyes are watery with emotion, but he stares at Gandhi

rigidly.

TRAIN - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

Indian. Steam. A breed of its own.

THIRD CLASS COACH - INTERIOR - NIGHT

Gandhi sits by a window in the dimly lit coach. Ba sleeps on

the seat next to him, another member of the party next to

her. Gandhi's solemn eyes are studying the huddled humanity

in the rocking coach. People are sleeping everywhere, some

half-erect on the benches, many on the floor among the bundles

and trunks and bedrolls and baskets. Some have children,

some are very old. One old man, sleepless like Gandhi, stares

back at him across the shadowed squalor of the coach;

somewhere unseen a crying baby is soothed by his mother.

Gandhi looks at the bench across from him. Charlie Andrews,

his tall frame cramped in a tiny space between the window

looks at Gandhi dozily, a little smile of sufferance, then

he closes his eyes again, leaning his head against the rocking

window frame.

NARROW STREET - A SMALL TOWN - EXTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi is carried along in a ceremonial chair borne on the

shoulders of some trotting men. The chair is swathed in

flowers, and flowers are being showered on Gandhi by the

running children and the crowd lining the narrow street. Ba

and Charlie and two others are following in a flower-bedecked

ox-cart, lost in the mass of people that are swirling around

Gandhi.

On a building top a British officer watches emotionlessly as

Gandhi and the crowd pass below him. On this building and

others we see some on his Indian soldiers watching with their

rifles beside them.

INDIAN VILLAGES - EXTERIOR - DAY

As from a train... but the shots are varied; some close of

farmers and water buffalo, and ragged children and women in

colorful saris carrying pots on their heads, and some distant

of villages as units, one and another and another.

INTERCUT ALWAYS WITH:

TRAIN - INTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi's face in the window, he and Ba standing, looking out

together, neither speaking. Gandhi writing in the cramped

chaos of the Third Class coaches. Gandhi sweeping part of

the carriage, making disgruntled passengers move as he tries

to bring some cleanliness to their surroundings.

RIVER VISTA - EXTERIOR - DAY

A broad alluvial plain, the river threading through it, purple

and gold in the rising sun. The camera races with the train

along the river's edge, the reflected sun glimmering on the

windows.

RIVER BANK - EXTERIOR - DAY

The sun is high and the train is stopped by the river. People

have come out of the coaches to cool their heads with the

touch of water, to stretch their legs.

We see an English clergyman from the Second Class coaches,

dipping a toe cautiously into the water, children of some

British enlisted soldiers wading, splashing, faces alight

with fun.

And, farther along, the parasols of one or two of the English

First Class passengers, a woman dousing her neck delicately

with perfume. A British officer, tunic unbuttoned, smoking a

long cigar as he walks along in a few inches of water, his

trousers rolled up, his shoes off.

Across the river down from the Third Class coaches a small

group of Indian women is squatted by the river's edge, washing

clothes. Some carry infants on their backs. Some small

children stand near them. Their ritual of washing goes on,

but they are all watching the passengers of the train.

Gandhi stands with Ba and Charlie among the Third Class

passengers. Ba cools her face with water. Charlie, his

trousers rolled up, plays a tentative splashing game with a

skinny little Indian boy. Gandhi is holding a large white

head cloth which he is soaking in the water, but his eyes

have been arrested by the sight of the women across the river.

And now we see the women closely from his point of view, the

camera panning slowly along them. Their bodies are skin and

bone. The clothes they wear, which looked normal from the

distance, are rags -- literally, shredded rages, one hung on

another. The children are hollow-eyed and gaunt, staring

listlessly at the train. One boy, with a stump for an arm,

aimlessly pushes at the flies that buzz around him.

Gandhi stands erect, lost now in the revelation of their

poverty. His eyes hold on one woman at the river bank. Though

her frail face is almost skeletal, it is beautiful but scarred

by a severe rash down her cheek and neck. The cloth she is

washing is a shredded piece of muslin. Her eyes have met

Gandhi's as he watches her.

Gandhi stares for a moment, a long beat. Then he slowly moves

his arm out into the water and, without taking his eyes from

her, releases the head cloth he has been rinsing. It floats

along on the water down toward the woman.

She looks from Gandhi to it with sudden excitement, a sense

of incredulity. As the cloth nears her, she rises and moves

almost greedily out into the water to take it. Her hands

snatch at it quickly. Then she stands, looking at Gandhi.

The infant on her back shifts, its huge hollow eyes reacting

to the movement.

Gandhi smiles slowly, tilting his head just slightly to her.

And now that she has possession of the cloth, her manner

calms again. And she looks back at him, and her lips almost

part with a tiny smile of thanks.

Hold Gandhi, staring at her, fighting the pain in his eyes...

TRAIN - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

Threading like a lighted necklace across the darkness of a

vast plain.

TRAIN IN HILLS - EXTERIOR - DAY

Climbing green hills -- a totally different terrain -- and

again we intercut, this time the train climbing: a boy and

buffalo running a huge, crude grinding wheel, train climbing;

farmers in terraced fields, train climbing faster and

faster... until suddenly with a hoot of the whistle and the

screech of brakes it stops!

TRAIN - EXTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi is leaning out of a window in a Third Class coach.

Ahead of him other passengers are looking too; some have

jumped down.

Gandhi and Charlie jump down too. As they come clear they

can see that a military train of an engine and two cars has

been derailed ahead of them. A small troop of cavalry are

coming slowly along the line of Gandhi's train toward them.

Featuring the cavalry. They are British and their troop leader

is viciously angry.

He is swinging his sword, not lethally, but threateningly at

the Indian passengers from the train. His British NCOs are

equally angry and deliberately ride close to the passengers,

forcing them back against the train.

Gandhi and Charlie step back. And as the troop goes past we

see from their point of view a group of Indian bearers,

trotting in the middle of the horsemen, carrying two litters --

covered, each hanging by straps from a long pole -- and each

bearing a badly wounded British soldier; one appears to be

dead.

OUTSKIRTS OF VILLAGE - EXTERIOR - DAY

The shadow of a train moves slowly along the ground, a sense

of tension and foreboding. We hear the engine chugging slowly.

The camera lifts. Gandhi and Charlie stand at a window,

staring out grimly. Other passengers are looking off too. Ba

is seated, staring straight ahead, her face taut, deliberately

not seeing what the others are seeing.

GALLOWS - EXTERIOR - DAY

Their point of view: On a hill across from the railroad track

part of a prison wall is visible. In front of it a thick

pole is straddled across two others. From this crude gallows

two Indian men hang by the neck. One is in turban and dhoti,

the other in a tunic. The sound of the train stopping.

VILLAGE - EXTERIOR - DAY

Close shot. Incense rising in shot. The camera pulls back

and back. The incense is burning in a bowl sitting before

Gandhi on a make-shift platform set in the little valley

between the train line and the little hill where the Indian

men have been hanged. A small crowd sits in a crescent before

him, Ba and Charlie are bent in prayer on the platform behind

him. When the camera comes to rest, the edge of the gallows

and a portion of one of the hanged men is in the frame. We

know we are looking from someone's point of view near the

prison wall.

Finally, Gandhi lifts his head.

The murmur of resistance from the crowd is louder at this.

Gandhi shakes his head at the dissent.

He looks up.

HILLSIDE - HIS POINT OF VIEW

The troop leader, on horseback, is on the hill beside the

gallows. The first view of Gandhi on the platform was his.

Some of his troops are lined up beside him. He stares down

at Gandhi coldly.

PATEL'S SWIMMING POOL - EXTERIOR - DAY

Patel lounges in the water on his back, supported by a large

air pillow. Nehru sits at the side of the pool in a swimming

suit, his feet dangling in the water. Jinnah sits under an

umbrella in an elegant white suit, being served tea by one

of three or four servants around. Patel spews a fountain of

water.

Nehru takes an iced drunk from a servant.

The others assent. Nehru shakes his head wistfully.

TRAIN - EXTERIOR - DAY

A fireman heaps coal into an engine's boiler.

The train passes camera to the Third Class section, which

seems besieged by humanity. People cling to the outside of

each door and many more are seated on the central wooden

planks on the roofs of the two coaches.

THIRD CLASS COACH - EXTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi and Charlie are riding on the outside of the coach,

hanging on through the door, and both enjoying it immensely.

Ba, inside the jammed coach, finds it very unfunny. She has

a grip on one of Gandhi's arms.

She grimaces severely and tugs at him.

Featuring the roof. And Indian squats right on the edge of

the roof above Charlie. He is looking down, offering a hand.

Charlie, who has been grinning, suddenly looks baffled, not

to say appalled.

His hand still dangles in offering to the tall Charlie.

Another angle. Two other Indians on the roof move to where

they can grip the first Indian's other arm, as counterforce

to the weight of Charlie.

Featuring Charlie. Hesitatingly, he grips the inside of the

window higher, and starts to swing one foot onto the window

ledge.

Gandhi, baffled a second, sees the outstretched hand above

them, and in puckish complicity, helps boost Charlie up.

Long shot. As Charlie reaches up, his hand is grasped and he

starts to scramble and be pulled up to the roof.

Featuring Gandhi and Ba. As Charlie's leg, assisted by Gandhi,

starts to leave its lodging on the window ledge Ba suddenly

turns, sees it, and grabs for it in alarm.

Close shot. Charlie. His face flat on the roof of the train

as his arm is still gripped by the Indian, but his leg is

being pulled from behind.

Resume Gandhi and Ba. Gandhi quickly moves to free Ba's hand

from Charlie's leg and almost loses his own grip.

He grabs the window again.

Ba is confused.

With one hand he pries at her grip. In the chaos of

instructions others in the coach are helping Gandhi, and Ba

senses she is doing something wrong, but is still not sure

what. She lets go.

Close shot. Charlie. A desperate sigh of relief.

Long shot. Charlie is pulled on up to the top of the coach.

Featuring Charlie as he sits, puffing and recovering from

the fright.

Charlie nods grimly.

Featuring Gandhi and Ba. Gandhi, smiling, goes on the tips

of his toes to get a better view. Ba grabs him desperately.

Featuring Charlie. He looks around at the rest of the

passengers on the roof, their bundles and baskets clutched

beside them. Their poverty is appalling, but they are all

smiling at him, a sense of gaiety made in part by his

Englishman's participation in their experience. They must

shout over the train.

Charlie stares at him in surprise.

He is nodding, smiling, expecting Charlie's understanding.

And Charlie gives it -- somewhat bleakly. Suddenly

The Indians turn. Charlie turns.

TRAIN AND TUNNEL - EXTERIOR - DAY

Resume Charlie and the Indians.

All the Indians are crouching. Charlie closes his eyes

ruefully -- he's had better ideas than this -- and he gets

as flat as he can.

TRAIN AND TUNNEL - EXTERIOR - DAY

The train, with passengers clinging to the sides and riding

on the top, steams into the tunnel, its whistle sounding.

THE TUNNEL

Black. A glimmer of light, through steam, the whistle echoing.

Close shot. Charlie. In a flash of steamy light, staring

wide-eyed at the Indian.

Black, and sudden silence.

CONVENTION TENT - INTERIOR - DAY

High. Coming into focus is a lighted platform, and as the

scene becomes clearer we see figures on the platform and the

banner which reads INDIAN NATIONAL CONGRESS, and we hear the

emotional voice of Jinnah at the microphone.

The camera has been moving in; now it jumps to Jinnah in

close shot and intercuts with the impact of his fervid

delivery on the audience.

And the audience cheers him. Newspaper cameramen crowded

around the platform photograph him. Patel comes forward from

the back of the platform, clapping. He is chairing the

Congress. Jinnah bows, taking his notes, gesturing to the

auditorium. A man made for the spotlight, a man loving the

spotlight.

At last he moves back to his place on the platform. Nehru

clasps his hand in congratulation. Others crowd around him.

And fleetingly, just in the edge of picture, we see Gandhi --

again, the only one in an Indian tunic -- sitting at the end

of the second row on the platform. He is just watching the

flood of enthusiasm for Jinnah.

Featuring Patel approaching the microphone, stilling the

house with upraised hands.

And again the audience cheers and applauds his little coda.

He raises his hands, stilling them again.

Gandhi has already started to come toward the podium. He is

greeted with mild applause, but already the convention is

performing like a convention now that the spell of Jinnah's

major speech has dissipated. As Gandhi reaches the podium,

Patel gestures him to it.

Gandhi nods to him and acknowledges the residue of applause.

He means about the journal.

Patel has wandered back toward the others, his mind already

on them. But he has half heard Gandhi's comment and turns --

a smile, a politician's flexibility --

Again Gandhi grins -- and takes glasses from his sleeve.

This is the first time we have seen them. He has one slip of

paper with notes on it which he has put on the podium. He

puts his glasses on and faces the convention.

On the platform, the whispered politics go on. On the floor

of the convention, some listen, some talk of other things.

Nehru has turned, having caught that last remark. He touches

Patel on the shoulder "Listen."

And now they are beginning to pay attention on the floor of

the hall too.

Jinnah too is listening now -- aloofly, challengingly.

There is dissent on the floor and on the platform -- but it

is muttered and English "polite." Gandhi goes on.

He takes off his glasses and folds them and in silence starts

back toward his place on the platform. A cameraman flashes a

picture, and someone begins to applaud; it is taken up here

and there, tepidly. On the platform, the leaders join in

perfunctorily. We see one peasant face (Shukla) -- which we

will come to know -- watching from the crowd of outsiders

who stand in the doorways.

Nehru, who has been looking at Gandhi with interest and some

surprise turns to Patel.

THE TRAIL TO GANDHI'S ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

An open touring car struggling along the bumpy trail. Nehru

drives, four friends as young as he with him, all dressed in

the same expensive, British manner.

Nehru is looking a little harassed, from the ragging he is

taking and from the ride. The ashram is only half-finished,

the ground unworked, the buildings only partially completed

and the whole looking like some primitive frontier outpost.

They are finally brought to a halt by a goat that is tethered

right across the path.

The others laugh; Nehru suffers.

ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

Nehru has half risen in his seat to address Charlie Andrews,

who, walking from one somnolent building to another, has

stopped dead at the sight of the car. He carries sheaves of

page proofs.

He looks around the ashram a little dismally.

ASHRAM - TREE BY RIVER - EXTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi sits under a tree, peeling potatoes. Nehru and his

friends are sprawled out around him. Beside them, the river;

in the background the business of the ashram goes on.

His smile is sardonic, but genuine, theirs embarrassed and

self-conscious.

Gandhi has finished the last potato. He glances at Nehru

then drops the potato in the bowl. He lifts the pail of

peelings to Nehru.

Nehru in his fine linen suit takes the pail awkwardly. His

friends watch with amusement, but they too rise to follow as

they head for the kitchen.

He re-directs Nehru toward a trough where two or three goats

are tethered, but he keeps right on talking.

They have reached the trough.

Nehru has carefully walked around something distasteful on

the ground, now he dumps the peelings along the trough and

spreads them "delicately." Gandhi scoops some peelings from

the trough to feed a goat that nudges him.

He meets Nehru's gaze, and for a moment something deeper

than argument passes between them. Then something catches

Gandhi's eye. He looks off. Ba stands, watching him, waiting.

Gandhi turns. The goat is reaching for his bowl of potatoes.

He pushes it away and starts for the kitchen.

Nehru grins, captured by Gandhi's seriousness, and his humor.

He hasn't moved, and neither have his friends. They watch

Gandhi as he carries his bowl of potatoes to Ba.

Gandhi plods on toward the kitchen, carrying the bowl of

potatoes.

THE RIVER BED AT THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

Clothes are dipped in the brownish water. Ba and an ashramite

woman squat by the river, washing clothes. It is long past

the monsoons and they have had to come far out in the riverbed

to the water. But they are laughing at their task.

She stops, because coming along the riverbed toward them is

a man (Shukla) who looks as though he has come a long, weary

way. His face is gaunt, his little bundle of belongings

pathetic. As he nears them, he pauses.

GANDHI'S HUT - ASHRAM - INTERIOR - DUSK

Shadowed, the end of the day. Gandhi sits cross-legged,

watching solemnly as Shukla reaches with his fingers into a

bowl to eat. The fingers are thin, half-starved, like the

man himself.

He looks up at Gandhi almost sheepishly. He does not eat

yet, but his hunger is evident. Ba sits at one side in the

shadows watching him as intently as Gandhi.

His voice is choked and near to tears, resonant with the

unspoken agony his words mean for him and the others like

him. He looks at Gandhi nervously for a moment, then puts

the food to his mouth like a man who is starving, and trying

desperately not to show it.

Close shot. Ba. The solemn intensity of her gaze reflects

her identification with the man's agony. She glances up at

Gandhi...

TRAIN STATION - CHAMPARAN - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

The camera is low, shooting along the track toward the light

of an approaching train. From its distant glow we can see

that people line the platform of the small station, waiting,

but we cannot tell how thick the crowd may be.

The station house. An open staff car pulls up through the

press of the crowd. An English captain leaps out and pushes

aggressively through the mass of bodies toward the platform.

Again the darkness of the ill-lit station and the angle of

the camera limit our vision.

A detail of British troops, already on the station, moves in

his wake, just as aggressive toward the crowd as he is.

The sergeant is on the low sloping roof of the station. The

captain turns briskly to two of his detail.

The two men join hands and the captain is hoisted up with an

assist from Sergeant Putnam. We hear the train stop in the

background.

On the roof. The captain stands erect.

He is now standing and his face has frozen. It needs no answer

from Putnam.

He turns his head slowly, his mouth agape at His point of

view. The whole of the obscurely lit platform is covered

thick with waiting crowds. They engulf the station house,

back and front, and on the other side of the train more people

are packed all along its length, and beyond them along the

narrow street that stretches through the little collection

of houses adjoining the station, every rooftop is covered --

men, women with babes in arms, children. There is no

excitement, hardly any movement -- just a vast congregation

of people, waiting silently is the darkness -- and as the

camera pans we see that the crowd extends, indiscernible,

even beyond the range of light.

Featuring Gandhi. He has stepped down from the train. Shukla

guides him, Ba and Charlie a step or two behind. Gandhi moves

through the silent crowd, his hands in the pranam, bowing a

little to either side. As he advances, the crowd parts -- it

is almost eerily silent. As their clothes indicate, the area

is Muslim, so some salaam (a touch of the hand to the

forehead) and a few tentatively make the pranam back to Gandhi

as he moves through them. Most of the faces are gaunt and

lean. A destitute people.

And suddenly there is a commotion and the sound of boots on

the concrete platform, and the English captain shoves his

way through to confront Gandhi down the little aisle that

was being made for him. The sergeant and part of the detail

and behind the captain.

The captain stares. Then he looks around at the crowd,

suspiciously, a touch of inner fear, then back to Gandhi.

There is a flicker of recognition, but uncertain. The captain

stiffens; a steeling of the will. Another glance at the crowd,

this time with an air of outraged authority.

It has the cold assurance of a lawyer, and the Captain is a

little shaken by it. He glances at Charlie who stands behind

Gandhi now, and it makes him all the more uncertain.

He tries to make it severe, but it is a comedown.

It is firm and there is an edge of assertiveness to it that

the Captain doesn't like, but Gandhi's unrelenting stare

unnerves him. He glances at Charlie again.

Again, the empty severity of weakness. He looks around, then

turns and marches off briskly shoving his way through the

crowd. "Out of my way, there! Come on, move!"

Gandhi smiles reflectively, and the crowd suddenly begins to

buzz. Where all was silence before there is now the hum of

excitement. Already he has scored a victory -- and as he

moves forward again, making the pranam, they return it with

flushed greetings. "Gandhi -- Gandhi -- Bapu -- Gandhiji"...

PEASANT'S DWELLING - INTERIOR - DAY

The early light of the sun illumines the dwelling. We feature

a man in middle age, but one who looks ill and drawn (Meha).

He lies on a straw mat.

Gandhi sits cross-legged, listening. It is the kind of

listening that opens the heart. Behind him a mass of villagers

sits stoically, outside the dwelling, waiting while their

case is heard. Meha tries to speak unemotionally but under

Gandhi's sympathetic gaze his despair keeps cracking through.

Near to breakdown, he gestures around the empty house.

He cannot go on.

It's a rhetorical question. Meha nods.

Gandhi looks around the crude dwelling, almost nothing

remains. We see two young men, one seventeen perhaps, the

other older, and a girl, sixteen. And finally Meha's wife,

sitting near Ba, the two women listening together but Meha's

wife looks like a woman who has given up, her hair is dead

and hardly combed, her sari dirty.

Meha looks at Gandhi and shakes his head hopelessly. Gandhi

nods... He stands slowly.

The words are said bleakly, not to raise false hopes. He

glances at Meha's wife. Water comes to her eyes, and she

lowers her head. Ba puts her hands on her shoulders and clasps

her to her, and the woman breaks, and sobs and sobs...

TILLED FIELD - CHAMPARAN - EXTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi rides on an open howdah on an elephant, his mind locked

in sober reflection. Shukla shares the howdah with him, but

does not dare break Gandhi's black mood.

It registers with Gandhi -- but inside. A moment.

Gandhi shakes himself from his absorption and looks back. Ba

and Charlie are mounted on a similar howdah on another

elephant, both being led by peasant boys. Charlie is pointing

behind them. Coming along the path is a tall Indian policeman

on a bicycle. He rides right past Charlie and Ba and comes

alongside Gandhi. His attitude is superficially polite, but

he is full of righteous authority.

It contains more anger than we have seen him display to anyone

but Ba.

CHAMPARAN CRICKET CLUB - EXTERIOR - DAY

A ball is hit. The camera pulls back to reveal a lush, verdant

pitch, white-garbed players, English, a few ladies dressed

in First World War fashion watching under parasols near the

clubhouse and in the shade of trees with a few officers and

civil servants, while Indian servants discreetly serve cool

drinks.

The batsman has hit a four and we see him run down the pitch

with his partner until the four is certain, then

The wicket keeper makes a rude, facetious gesture, but as

the batsman turns to settle in his crease again

He has looked up. A car is pulling hurriedly in near the

clubhouse, an officer in it, and people are streaming toward

it.

The car. A major is standing on the back seat. An Indian

corporal drives.

Featuring the batsman and some of the players as they walk

across the field toward the car. They know something's up.

The batsman "takes" on him facetiously, and we cut to:

THE COURTHOUSE AND JAIL - MOTIHARI - EXTERIOR - DAY

A small building on a little Anglicized square. It is

surrounded by a milling angry throng of peasants.

Featuring the front entrance. The English captain who was at

the station when Gandhi arrived is on the top step, looking

harried and tense. A small detachment of Indian troops lines

the step below him. Charlie Andrews is pushing through the

crowd toward the captain. As he approaches, the Indian

sergeant holds up his hand.

The captain looks at his clerical collar, his English face,

his determination.

Charlie moves through the Indian soldiers and up toward the

entrance. The captain stares out worriedly over the unruly

crowd.

COURTHOUSE JAIL - INTERIOR - DAY

A basement chamber -- dark, thick-walled and poorly lit. The

camera has panned off a close shot of Gandhi as he turns in

his cell at the sound of a door opening and approaching

footsteps. We have seen only his head and shoulders, which

are covered in a shawl.

A police guard leads Charlie across the rough, unfinished

floor. As he comes to Gandhi's cell we get a fleeting glimpse

of Gandhi sitting on a low pallet bed.

Close shot. Gandhi as he recognizes his visitor.

Reverse on Charlie. He looks down at Gandhi and shakes his

head.

Close shot. Gandhi. Head and shoulders. He returns the grin,

but anger and determination still dominate his mood.

And now we see Gandhi in full shot for the first time. He is

wearing only a white loincloth, the shawl over his shoulders

and sandals -- the costume he will wear for the rest of his

life.

Charlie studies him a moment, and being Charlie, he

understands.

He grins, and it elicits a little grin from Gandhi.

And Gandhi laughs.

And again Gandhi laughs. Charlie turns to the guard.

The police guard hesitates, and then unlocks the cell.

Charlie enters and sits on a little wooden stool opposite

Gandhi, his long legs awkwardly filling most of the space

between them. Gandhi has remained seated, pensive. Charlie

studies him a moment.

A little grin, but his mood remains pensive -- and remote.

Gandhi looks up -- his anger, his determination there, but

then broken by a hopeless sigh.

Charlie is stunned, and obviously hurt. Gandhi proceeds more

gently.

And now Charlie understands. Gandhi smiles; warmth, and

sadness. Then he speaks with a determined purposefulness, a

friend's trust.

He has taken some scratched notes from under the bedding and

handed them to Charlie. Charlie nods. He sighs, and rises

slowly.

Gandhi rises, glancing wryly at the prison walls. He nods.

And now he faces Charlie; this is the moment of farewell.

He doesn't know what to say, how to say it. Gandhi meets his

eyes -- a smile that shelters Charlie's vulnerability, returns

his love.

The very English, very steadfast Charlie fights to contain

his emotions.

THE COURTROOM - MOTIHARI - INTERIOR - DAY

It is packed to overflowing; restless. Gandhi sits in the

dock. One or two sergeants-at-arms are trying to keep order,

but it the uneven and menacing chanting of "Gandhi... Gandhi"

coming from the mobs outside the courtroom that fills the

atmosphere with threat.

The magistrate (English) is surveying the courtroom; he

signals his clerk (English) to him.

The magistrate frowns.

We see the front row from his point of view. Two or three

Indian journalists and one European.

The magistrate receives that news with some alarm. He

indicates that the clerk take his place.

Gandhi stands. The courtroom is silent, but we can still

hear the sound of the chanting outside.

The magistrate stares. The journalists write. The clerk

swallows.

The magistrate looks around the courtroom and is only too

aware of the mob outside.

The clerk lowers his eyes to his pad. The magistrate searches

the distant wall, the top of his desk, his twitching hands

for an answer. Finally

Again the magistrate stares. And so do the journalists. The

magistrate wets his lips --

And now the court explodes. In the chaos of cheering and

delight, the magistrate rises, looks around the room and

heads for his chambers.

The journalists are scribbling furiously.

Gandhi turns and starts out of the courtroom. We hear cries

of "Gandhi! -- Gandhi! -- Bapu!"

THE COURTHOUSE BALCONY

Gandhi steps down from the courtroom to the balcony. A huge

cheer comes up from the massed peasants below. As he smiles

down at them, he is turned by

Four young Indians -- elegantly dressed in English clothes --

are following him, having plunged through the crowd in the

courtroom. A beat -- and the first young man addresses him

over the chaos.

Gandhi reacts -- with surprise and caution.

Again Gandhi is surprised -- but even more cautious. Behind

him, the crowd begins to chant "Gandhi -- Gandhi."

It sounds casually ironic, but they look determined, even

angry.

He is looking at them with a soupcon of skepticism but he is

beginning to smell victory. His name echoes around him and

is taken up even louder as the news spreads to the street.

GOVERNOR'S OFFICE - CHAMPARAN - INTERIOR - DAY

Almost total silence. The room is long, large and imposing --

hardwood floors, overhead fans, an aura of wealth and

permanence. Footsteps pace its acres of space... and Sir

George Hodge comes into frame. He is rich, middle-aged, Tory --

and at the moment feeling impotent and harried.

The Governor, Sir Edward Gait -- the portrait of the King

prominent behind him -- is feeling as cornered as Sir George

but for different reasons. His desk is arrayed with several

tall stacks of folders -- all with exactly the same covers --

and on one corner of the desk, some folded newspapers. We

can just read "Gandhi" in a headline. He taps one of the

folders irritably with his hand.

Sir George looks at him -- half defensive, half defiant.

They are old friends -- the same school, the same social

class, long together in India -- and their argument is an

argument between friend who accept the same premises. But

even so the Governor feels the game has not quite been played

fairly.

Sir George is staring out of the window, vexed, bristling

but defensive.

He picks up one of the papers irritatedly, the London Daily

Chronicle.

Sir George looks at him and sighs heavily. Sir Edward stares

back, then drops the paper back on his desk.

Sir George turns, and paces back toward him. For the first

time we see Sir Edward's personal secretary (a male civil

servant) sitting at a small desk and listening with highly

developed unobtrusiveness.

It is the first sign of concession. Sir Edward lifts his

eyes to his personal secretary.

Sir George looks from him to Sir Edward. A beat.

Sir George looks at the document on the secretary's desk. A

moment. The secretary turns it slowly so it is facing him.

Sir George looks at it like a snake. The secretary picks up

a pen and offers it. A second, then Sir George takes the pen

and signs angrily.

Sir Edward is at the liquor cabinet.

He turns, offering Sir George a whiskey in a finely cut glass

of crystal.

JINNAH'S RESIDENCE - BOMBAY - EXTERIOR - DAY

Jinnah moves from under the portico. His shining, expensive

car is coming in the drive and stops by him. He opens the

back door, but only the chauffeur is in the car.

Jinnah closes the door and looks across at the entrance in

exasperation.

It's a disdainful comment and he drives the car off toward

the garage.

Gandhi comes around the corner of the wall into the entrance.

He is carrying a bedroll and a bamboo walking stick. Herman

Kallenbach is with him, dressed informally, also carrying a

bedroll. Jinnah makes a "sophisticated" salaam.

Gandhi grins, dismissing the formality.

JINNAH'S DRAWING ROOM - INTERIOR - DAY

It is spacious, "English." At the door, Jinnah introduces

Gandhi to the room.

Again Gandhi grins at the extravagance.

A polite little laugh; Jinnah introduces him.

Gandhi makes the pranam, studying him with interest after

that comment. Azad gives a gentle salaam.

Gandhi turns.

Featuring Nehru. He stands, awaiting Gandhi's attention. All

the others have been dressed in European clothes. The handsome

Europeanized Nehru now wears an Indian tunic -- much like

the one that Gandhi once wore.

For a moment Gandhi studies the costume, then a broad smile.

He looks at Gandhi.

Gandhi nods at the "compliment," but they are all angered by

the severity of it.

Again the temper of it produces a little silence. Then

He moves to a servant who stands, holding a large tray with

a silver service of tea. Of them all, Nehru's manner is the

most naturally patrician and Jinnah watches him with a

somewhat envious awareness of it.

His stand has produced a little shock of surprise. Holding

his tea, he turns to Gandhi with a little smile.

He means Gandhi's of course. Jinnah looks at the two of them.

Gandhi has removed his sandals and is sitting cross-legged

on a fine upholstered chair. Jinnah's eyes rake him with

anger and distaste.

They all look at him with some surprise. As he speaks, he

rises and walks to the servant.

They all stare at him, startled by his words and the fervor

with which he speaks to them.

He holds their gaze, then turns to the immobile servant and

with a little smile, takes the tray from him and places it

on the table next to him. It makes them all aware that the

servant, standing there like an insensate ornament, has been

treated like a "thing," a slave. As it sinks in, Gandhi pours

some tea then looks up at them with a pleading warmth --

first to Jinnah.

It impresses each one of them. But for all his impact, they

still take the measure of him with caution.

"Prayer and fasting"? They are not overwhelmed.

Patel is the first to recognize the implications.

The idea has caught hold. As the others talk of "papers,"

"telegrams," "speeches," Jinnah looks over his cup at Gandhi

with an air of bitter resignation, but he tries to make light

of it.

THE GARDEN - VICEROY'S PALACE - EXTERIOR - DAY

A garden party in full imperial splendor. A military band

plays discreetly in the background. Princes, maharajahs,

generals, ranking British civil servants and their ladies

taking tea on the manicured lawns among the exotic flowers.

But over all there is a thread of anxiety, we pick up one or

two nervous phrases: "At the West Gate there were no taxis

at all!," "Of course, the Army will always be loyal." And

the camera picks out a civil servant stepping from a door of

the palace carrying a sheaf of telegrams and cable forms.

He searches the assembled guests, then heads with almost

indecorous haste toward his target. It is the Viceroy, Lord

Chelmsford. With him, talking quietly, are his aide-de-camp,

the Governor of the province and his ADC, and the commanding

general of the Army in India. Lord Chelmsford's ADC is the

first to react to the civil servant's arrival and his

impatient attendance.

Lord Chelmsford turns expectantly.

His firmness doesn't restore Kinnoch's normal aplomb. He

holds the telegrams forward.

He glances at the general.

That takes the wind out of all of them. Grimly, Lord

Chelmsford looks out across the palace's ordered lawns and

gardens.

THE JAIL - BOMBAY - INTERIOR - DAY

A prison door opens. Gandhi, in prison clothes, is led along

a small corridor to a room. The door is held open by a prison

guard.

ROOM - THE JAIL - BOMBAY - INTERIOR - DAY

Nehru waits for Gandhi. He rises when Gandhi enters. The

guard signals Gandhi to a chair across a small wooden table

from Nehru. The guard closes the door, but remains in the

room. Nehru's face is a map of concern, but he manages a

small smile of greeting.

Gandhi, who also looks worn, rises his eyebrows whimsically

at the use of that name.

He means "Bapu" -- "Father."

Gandhi sighs, and their faces and minds go to more somber

matters.

Gandhi has listened to it all with a growing sense of despair.

THE STREETS OF AMRITSAR - EXTERIOR - DAY

The golden dome of the Temple fills the screen, shimmering.

The sound of a car, and marching feet. The camera pulls back

from the dome, revealing the rooftops, the trees and then

suddenly, center of frame, the face of General Dyer -- blunt,

cold, isolated in a cocoon of vengeful military righteousness.

He is traveling slowly, steadily in an armored car at the

head of fifty armed sepoys -- Gurkhas and Baluchis --

immaculate, precise, awesome. Behind them a staff car with

Dyer's English ADC and a British police officer. It is a

relentless, determined procession, filling the dusty street

with a sense of menace and foreboding.

JALLIANWALLAH BAGH - AMRITSAR - EXTERIOR - DAY

A large public garden, enclosed by a thick, old, crumbling

wall. A large crowd is gathered around a speaker on a platform

at one side of the park. It is political, but the crowd is

mixed. We see Muslims and Hindus, many of them Sikhs, old

men, little children, women with babes in arms. Some donkey

carts, a sense of fair-time gaiety.

We close in on the speaker -- a Muslim. He clutches a copy

(we need not see the title) of Gandhi's journal.

THE ENTRANCE OF THE JALLIANWALLAH BAGH - EXTERIOR - DAY

General Dyer, his armored car, his sepoys, moving toward the

gate. Dyer looks ahead calmly.

His point of view. The Gate of the Bagh. A rickety double

gate in the high crumbling wall. On each pillar, poster

notices for the meeting: "For Congress -- For Gandhi." In

the distance the speaker and the assembled crowd. Nearer, a

few vendors, loiterers and children. At the sound of the

armored car and marching feet, a few turn in curiosity.

Another angle. The armored car grinds forward. It won't go

through the gates, one fender scraping against the gate post.

Dyer gives a quiet order, the car backs away. Dyer jumps

down lightly -- a man in splendid condition. He walks through

the gate and stands quietly in the at-ease position, hands

clasping his swagger stick behind his back. looking off at

The speaker -- medium shot.

Long shot -- his point of view. The two platoons of sepoys,

rifles at the port, trot smartly through the gate and fan

out on either side of the motionless and dominant figure of

Dyer.

Resume the speaker.

Medium close -- the sepoys and Dyer. He issues his commands

in a quiet and unemotional voice, as though they were on

maneuvers.

The sergeant major issues the command. The troops port arms.

Again, the sergeant major barks the command, the bolts slam

back and forth, the magazines clatter.

Featuring the platform and the front of the crowd. They have

all turned now to watch, frozen in incredulity and

fascination. The sound of the sergeant major's orders and

the sinister rattle of breeches and bolts drifting to them.

Their point of view. The distant figures facing them.

Resume the crowd. Numbly they begin to back away, pressing

against the speaker's stand, themselves. A man picks up a

child.

Their point of view. The small, distant figures of the sepoys

again. A word of command. One platoon kneels and takes aim.

Another command. The second platoon, standing behind the

first, takes aim.

Featuring Dyer. His ADC approaches. The British police officer

stands off to one side.

It is final.

Resume the crowd. A ripple of panic now, everyone pressing

back, but still they cannot credit what they see. Only one

or two have the presence of mind to push clear and seek

shelter. It is too late.

Close shot Dyer, still calm.

Long shot over the sepoys and their sights, the wavering

crowd distant.

Flash shot along the line of sepoys; the rifles jerk and

bang. The crowd, running, screaming.

A dreadful press of panic-stricken people flying toward the

walls. And again the crash of rifles. Some fall. Others run

off-screen in an aimless, irresistible wave.

Dyer is walking behind his men, telling them, with a view to

maximum accuracy, what he has told them on the firing range

(it makes him a little irritable to have to repeat it).

He looks off at the crowd. His eyes narrow.

A group of men are hurling themselves at a breach in the top

of the wall, hanging there, scrabbling for a purchase, some

disappearing, a few heroic individuals astride the wall

reaching down to assist their women and children in the

swirling crowd below.

He nods. The corporal looks.

He directs the attention of his neighbors in the firing line

toward the new target; they shift their aim.

A man reaching for a child -- who is also propelled upward

by its mother from below -- is hit, falls, so that he and

the child crash into the crowd below.

Sepoys firing ad lib. Dyer watching the effect, careful and

conscientious.

Swift tracking a man running through the staggering crowd,

over the litter of bodies, his mouth open, his eyes wild. He

arrives at a well, throws down the rope and slides down it.

Others seize the idea and in panic throw themselves into the

well, dropping out of sight.

Featuring Dyer. Meticulously, he taps a corporal on the

shoulder with his swagger stick and indicates the well. The

corporal signals his line of men.

At the well. The gathering crowd -- men, women -- and laced

with rifle fire.

From behind the sepoys we see the whole Bagh, littered with

dead and dying, a thick ruck around the well, the walls

hanging with wounded and dying, the firing continuing, loud,

loud, louder... until --

THE ARMORY HALL - THE FORT OF LAHORE - INTERIOR - DAY

Silence. The camera is close as it crosses a table with legal

documents. Gradually we hear a muffled cough, whispers,

shuffled papers, and it at last comes to a large close shot

of General Dyer.

Another angle. A Commission of Inquiry sits in the large

Armory Hall of the Old Fort. Dyer faces a panel of

Commissioners: Lord Hunter, presiding, Mr. Justice Rankin,

General Barrow, a British civil servant, and an Indian

barrister.

The Commission functions like a public parliamentary committee --

little ceremony, no judicial robes, a small group of public

and press, who sit on wooden chairs behind a barrier that

isolates the Commission's business.

Much of that public is English -- fellow officers and

civilians.

A Government Advocate (English) turns to face Dyer.

Dyer glances woodenly at the panel -- a man in some shock at

the consequences of what he assumed was an act worthy of

praise.

The Advocate looks at him with a degree of disbelief -- more

at his attitude than his statement.

A slight reaction from the public section. Dyer's jaw

tightens.

He stares at the panel like a reasonable man making a

reasonable point. The evasiveness, the only half-buried

embarrassment of their response only deepens his own

withdrawal into himself.

Dyer thinks about it. Then unashamedly --

A muted reaction from the public section. The Indian barrister

stares at him a moment, then simply lowers his eyes to his

notes.

For the first time there is the hint of uncertainty in his

manner.

There is just a tremor of distaste quickly suppressed among

the panel. Not so quickly in the public section.

Dyer looks at him quickly. The question is unexpected, even

a little "clever." The officers listening clearly resent it.

And that answer stops the Advocate. He smiles dryly.

Dyer faces him stonily, a seed of panic taking root deep in

his gut.

JALLIANWALLAH BAGH - EXTERIOR - DAY

Quiet: the same silence as at the Court of Inquiry. The camera

is panning slowly along a section of the wall. We are close

and see the bullet holes, the patches of splashed blood, the

scratches where fingers have dug at the surface of the wall

to claw a path to safety... And finally the camera comes to

a close shot of Gandhi, matching that of Dyer, whom we have

just left. He is surveying the wall in the now empty park

numbly, desolately.

Nehru stands a few feet away from him, his mood the same,

the same benumbed grief and incredulity.

Resume the wall -- Gandhi's point of view. The camera

continues its pan -- bits of human hair matted in the dried

blood, and the bullet-ripped foliage, the well, trampled

ground around it, little pieces of clothing. Flies buzz around

the debris. Abstractedly, Gandhi touches the bucket rope

that lies across the surround. Nehru has moved to the other

side of the well. Gandhi lifts his eyes to him...

FADE IN:

THE VICE-REGAL PALACE - NEW DELHI - EXTERIOR - DAY

The imposing capitol building of the British Raj in India.

We establish then cut into

GOVERNMENT COUNCIL ROOM - INTERIOR - DAY

Featuring the Viceroy, Lord Chelmsford.

Chelmsford is pacing along one side of a large conference

table. Just in front of this is the "British" side -- two

generals (a full general and a brigadier), a naval officer,

two senior civil servants, a senior police officer. Across

from them is the "Indian" side: Gandhi, Nehru, Patel, Jinnah,

Azad. This time Gandhi is in the middle and speaks with the

full authority of a leader.

The Indian side acknowledges Chelmsford's disclaimer --

coolly, but accepting it. That lifts Chelmsford's hopes a

little.

It is spoken with the cold determination of a man still angry.

It stops Chelmsford in mid-pace.

The British are stunned almost to speechlessness -- the

audacity, the impossibility of it -- and from Gandhi of all

people. The senior civil servant, Kinnoch, is the first to

recover.

Gandhi and the others just look at him.

Chelmsford is realist enough to recognize that a faux pas

has been made, and he strives to get the meeting back on the

course he intends.

He has deliberately if delicately caught the eye of both

Jinnah and Maulana Azad during this. Gandhi knows the trouble

this can cause and he answers more for those on his side

than the Viceroy's.

Its finality is such that for a moment there is no response

at all, but then the General smiles.

His smile flitters cynically on the mouths of the others on

his side.

He looks at them all, then up at Lord Chelmsford behind them.

LATER - THE SAME GOVERNMENT COUNCIL ROOM

Close shot -- a crystal decanter. The top is lifted, whiskey

pours.

The camera pulls back. We are still in the Council Room, but

time has passed. The Indian delegation has gone, and the

British are relaxing as a servant pours.

And they all laugh.

There are some smiles, but not all of them are quite so

amused.

It is an instruction they all find correct.

FIELD - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

A roar of approval from a huge crowd. We are featuring two

British soldiers, their faces partially lit by a flickering

torch light that reveals their tense wariness.

Another angle. And we can see its cause. A huge crowd is

gathered around a platform -- torches sprinkled through it --

and their mood is confident, belligerent. As their defiant

roar carries through the night air we see that Gandhi sits

cross-legged on the platform. Nehru is with him. Patel, now

for the first time in an Indian tunic, and Azad, also in an

Indian tunic. Desai, Gandhi's new male secretary, is with

them. But it is Ba who is speaking at the microphone, who

has brought the shout of defiance from the crowd.

It is the end of her speech and she makes the pranam and

turns away. There is applause and noise, but Ba does not

acknowledge it; she simply sits cross-legged behind Gandhi,

who is talking with Patel and Nehru. At last he rises, and

the noise and applause increase to something like chaos.

In close shot we see other British soldiers watching on the

perimeter of the crowd and they are now made even more wary

by the enthusiasm of this greeting. Gandhi fiddles with his

glasses, preoccupied; finally he looks out over the crowd

and holds up a hand -- almost lazily -- and gradually, but

quite definitely, the crowd stills.

We intercut with the crowd, listening raptly. Gandhi holds

up one finger.

Neither of these goals is easy, and the audience reaction

shows it. Now Gandhi raises a third finger.

And the crowd breaks into stamping and applause. Gandhi lets

it run for a time, then stills it with the one small gesture

as before.

This has sobered the audience somewhat. Now he looks out

across them as though seeking something. Then

There is an excited stir; he silences it.

Close shot -- the ground. As suitcoats, shirts, vests,

trousers, are flung into a pile.

Featuring the two British soldiers -- later -- on the edge

of the crowd, staring off, their faces now brightly lit by

darting flames.

Their point of view. A huge triangular pile burns before the

platform, an excited half-naked crowd swirling in the shadows

around it. Resume the two British soldiers. They look at

each other with a kind of fear a rampant crowd can excite in

those who must hold it...

ASHRAM STATION - EXTERIOR - DAY

The small train station near the ashram. Kallenbach stands

by a new (early 1920s) Ford touring car, watching as a train

pulls into the station.

As people start to jump off the train he moves forward.

Featuring Patel, getting out of a compartment marked "Second

Class." He lugs a bedroll and a bag. Despite the Indian tunic

he now wears he cannot help but look and act like the

incisive, patrician lawyer he is under the skin. As he moves

through the crowded platform.

He looks up; it is Kallenbach who is the insistent "helper."

Kallenbach is smiling too. He reaches for the bags again.

And grandly, he relinquishes the bags and looks back.

Their point of view. In the chaos of the Third Class we see

Maulana Azad coming out of a section of the coach. He is

carrying a baby wrapped in rags. The child's mother with two

little ones hanging on her has followed him out.

Azad hands the woman the baby and she obviously thanks him.

He makes a little salaam to her and moves through the

confusion of the platform toward the camera.

Resume Patel and Kallenbach.

Azad approaches them.

He and Kallenbach clasp with their free hands, both grinning.

And the camera pans with their glances at they look back

with real interest toward the First Class coach.

Porters are unloading the baggage of two or three passengers

here and helping some others (English and Indian) to board.

In the foreground we see a tall Indian woman in a red sari.

Farther along there is a large stack of luggage being added

to by a porter. An English woman is hovering about it. She

is well dressed, but rather dreary and unprepossessing, and

the camera zooms in toward her.

Patel grins. Like most witty men, he loves wit in others.

Patel groans. They turn back to the train and just as they

do, the tall Indian woman in the red sari tips a porter,

taking one small bag from him and turns: Mirabehn (Madeleine

Slade) is tall, quite pretty and extremely English despite

the sari. The minute she turns, she stops on seeing the now

startled Kallenbach.

Kallenbach recovers sufficiently to --

The word means "daughter." Patel and Azad stare at each other

in something like bafflement.

THE ROAD TO THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

An ox labors along in harness. We follow him for a moment,

then move along the traces of the harness to the Ford touring

car that it is pulling. In the car Kallenbach and Mirabehn

sit in the front seat, Patel and Azad in the back.

Closer.

He does what little steering is necessary and Mirabehn smiles

at it all, finding everything delightful. She peers ahead in

the direction of the distant ashram.

Mirabehn has turned to look at him. She has the same

sophomoric eagerness and intensity as the young Gandhi.

Mirabehn is enthralled by the wit, the modesty that underlines

the words. She faces Kallenbach.

She thinks she does, and that he would want to.

It surprises, but it doesn't deflate.

Kallenbach, whose size and stillness carry the aura of some

great piece of primitive sculpture -- solid, true,

disturbingly profound -- searches inside himself for the

answer.

It is so profoundly simple and deeply felt that it obviously

touches the deeply emotional Mirabehn.

GANDHI'S BUNGALOW - EXTERIOR - DAY

Ba has a spinning wheel on the small porch and Gandhi is

sitting next to her with another. He is trying to imitate

her action -- which is fast and dexterous -- and he gets in

a terrible jumble. Ba watches, laughing.

She leans across and tries to extricate his fingers.

And Ba laughs again and Gandhi smiles, tapping her with

playful reproval on the top of her bent head. There are

footsteps and Gandhi looks up. Patel stands in the doorway.

Gandhi's face changes to something like elation. A beat.

It means "leader" and it is the name the peasants have given

Patel. Gandhi uses it with an intonation of novelty and

respect. He stands and crosses to Patel, clutching him

emotionally, and it brings a bit of emotion from the

sophisticated Patel.

Gandhi holds him back to look at him.

Patel gets hold of himself, and affects his usual glib

cynicism.

He smiles again, then, his arm still around Patel's shoulder,

he turns to greet the others. Azad looks at him, then

facetiously, as though to put down Patel.

Gandhi laughs again, squeezing Patel's shoulder.

Azad shakes his head.

Gandhi reaches forward and touches his hand, and he sees

Mirabehn on the porch. For a moment their eyes meet and then

Mirabehn moves forward quickly and takes his hand, kissing

it, tears running down her cheek. Gandhi touches the top of

her head.

LATER - GANDHI'S BUNGALOW - INTERIOR - TWILIGHT

The camera is on a row of sandals by the door -- Patel's,

Azad's, Desai's, Gandhi's. It pans to the room. Gandhi sitting

facing Patel and Azad, Desai in the background, making notes

of the discussion. Gandhi is carding fiber to thread as they

talk. Mirabehn, seated like the others, is almost in the

circle, sitting near Ba, and listening like her. Ba's spinning

never stops.

Gandhi looks up at Azad, Azad shakes his head solemnly

But he does not go on. It has a terrible sobriety.

Azad shakes his head.

Gandhi reaches out and touches his hand.

He holds Azad's eyes, giving strength. Then he turns to

Mirabehn, made more aware of her by Azad's reference. For a

moment he looks at her sari.

The tone suggests he thinks it is homespun. Mirabehn nods, a

little choked that his attention is turned to her.

Gandhi smiles approvingly. Then a shadow --

Mirabehn beams.

Mirabehn nods and looks resignedly at Ba. Ba is spinning.

She smiles.

Mirabehn looks down at the shoes on her feet -- and then at

the others and their bare feet -- and she looks up in

grinning, self-conscious embarrassment. Ba smiles at her

affectionately.

Mirabehn looks at her, accepting the warmth behind the

teasing. It is the beginning of an enduring friendship.

CHAURI CHAURA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

A small town. Featuring the faces of six Indian police

constables as a torch light parade passes them. There are

enough of them in their group to be watching the marchers

with a challenging disdain. The marchers are men in loin-

clothes and tunics; they brandish torn and ripped English

cloth and shout in unison.

We have cut to the parade -- and it is the tail end, going

around a corner ahead. Some of the marchers wave their cloth

tauntingly at the police. One policeman suddenly steps out

and grabs at a piece of cloth waved at him. He pulls it

viciously from the marcher.

He chases the marcher and boots him with his foot. Another

marcher runs at the policeman, swinging at him with his piece

of cloth.

Another angle -- sudden. He is whacked across the face with

a billy club and falls, clutching his face and spouting blood

from his nose.

Another angle. The police are now all attacking, swinging

clubs and kicking at the tail-enders of the march. And the

tail-enders begin to scream

CONNECTING STREET - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

The parade is on this street. A tail-ender, blood streaming

down his face, runs around the corner. lose shot -- the tail-

ender. As he stops

Another angle. Some of the marchers turn at the shout.

RESUME THE POLICE - THE FIRST STREET

A few of the tail-enders watching, some running clear of the

police, some being beaten.

Two police have a man on the ground. One policeman looks up.

Their point of view. The corner where the parade has

disappeared. It is now packed with more marchers, more

flooding in from behind.

We see the whole street, the marchers massed near the corner,

spread out, staring at the police, who are now frozen in

their mayhem, staring off at the marchers.

For a second, utter silence.

And then the police begin to back away from their victims.

The marchers start to move forward. The police draw their

guns, and the marchers suddenly run at them, a guttural roar,

as though they were one single wild beast.

Featuring the police. They start to run, some turning to

fire at the pursuing crowd, then running on.

THE POLICE STATION - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

A small building for this small town. A policeman on duty

holds the door and the fleeing police, first one, then two

more, then the last three, run into the building.

The crowd surges around it, smashing windows, hurling stones.

Close shot. English cloth shirts pushed together and ignited.

Second close shot. Trousers, already aflame, being hurled

through a broken window. All around, the noise of the angry,

surging crowd, stones raining on the building. Shouts: "Out --

Out!"

Later. A corner of the building engulfed in flames. The camera

pulls back and we see the whole building swept with fire.

The heat of it keeps the crowd back but they are still

shouting "Out -- Out! -- Out" -- and a sudden cheer.

At the door of the flaming building. One policeman appears,

his face blackened with soot, his hands up over his head.

Another appears in the smoke behind him, and they start to

come out -- not only the original six but the five or six

others who were in the building -- rushing suddenly from the

heat of the fire.

Close shot -- the crowd. We are close on the body of the

first policeman as he runs into the crowd and on the instant

we see a sword slash at his arm.

Another angle. The crowd massed around the fallen figure, a

flash of the sword going up over the heads -- a breathless

pause -- and it comes down again... savagely.

Later. The flames of the crumbled building. The crowd has

gone and we only hear the roar of the flames. The camera

pans across the flames, and we see a skull, charred flesh

still clinging to it, the eyes black holes, the teeth bare

as it burns in the fire.

JINNAH'S DRAWING ROOM - INTERIOR - DAY

Close shot -- Gandhi. His face drawn, stunned, as he stares

emptily at the floor. He is sitting on the carpet in the

center of the room. A moment of silence and then we begin to

hear the tick of a clock, the sounds of others moving in the

room, and finally

Another angle. Patel leans with one arm on a table, his mood

as devastated as Gandhi's; he is looking at an Indian paper

on the table by his hand. A moment then

He has been standing, looking out of a window. He turns, and

tosses a newspaper on a desk. It is a New York Times and we

just glimpse the picture of the severed head lying in the

smoldering ashes.

And now we see Nehru and Azad in the background too. And

Desai. Jinnah as usual in a finely cut European suit, the

others are dressed in tunics of homespun as they will be to

the end.

They turn to him -- a sense of surprise, but they don't really

believe he means the statement.

He looks at him. Gandhi doesn't move. Patel looks up

hopelessly at Jinnah. Azad keeps his eyes fixed on Gandhi,

sensing, fearing what is going to happen.

He looks at Gandhi with a mounting sense of annoyance.

Gandhi is listening, but still withdrawn into himself.

Jinnah turns away in anger. Patel sighs. Nehru feels helpless

but he continues to try.

Gandhi stares into nothing -- mulling that. Finally

Nehru stares at him -- surprised. Azad is not.

Gandhi does not react. And Nehru ignores the thought too,

because like Azad his mind is already on the real danger.

Gandhi looks up at him -- a resigned fatalism.

THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - TWILIGHT

Mirabehn walks across the grounds toward Gandhi's bungalow.

She carries a small tray with a pitcher and a glass. We see

a few people working in the background, and a mass of people

camped near the entrance, some sprawled, some sitting, some

standing -- all waiting.

The steps of Gandhi's bungalow. A doctor in a white tunic

sits on the porch, reading. On a small table beside him we a

stethoscope and the equipment to measure blood pressure. He

looks up at Mirabehn as she mounts the steps, and nods.

Mirabehn reaches the doorway and is suddenly brought up.

GANDHI'S BUNGALOW - THE INTERIOR - MIRABEHN'S POINT OF VIEW -

TWILIGHT

In the shadows, Ba sits by Gandhi's mat bed. She is holding

him as he heaves in a spasm of dry retching, his face to the

wall. When he is finished, he lies almost limp in her arms

and she gently lowers him to the mat. She strokes his head.

Mirabehn stiffens herself. She is not yet devotee and nurse.

She removes her sandals and walks across the room.

Ba looks up at her. She glances at the jug and glass, then

nods. She turns to Gandhi.

She strokes his sweating head again, touches his shoulder

and gets up. For a moment the two women hold each other's

gaze, then Ba smiles weakly, and leans her head into the

taller Mirabehn's shoulder. With her free hand Mirabehn

touches Ba's head. Then Ba straightens, and leaves without

looking back.

Mirabehn bends and sits by Gandhi's side.

Gandhi struggles to turn, and Mirabehn helps him. When he

turns we see that his face is wet with sweat from the dry

heaving and his hands and arms are quivering and he cannot

stop them. She looks at him nervously, then pours a glass

from the pitcher.

She turns back, and propping up his head, helps him to sip.

Gandhi swallows with difficulty. He pauses, letting his head

fall back and she lowers it down to the mat again. He tries

to smile.

Mirabehn looks daunted by his intractability.

Gandhi signals her down to him. She bends so she is looking

at the floor and he is speaking almost into her ear.

We intercut their faces, very close, as he speaks.

During the very last of it Mirabehn has turned her face to

him, touched with emotion.

Mirabehn straightens up, smiling, wiping the tear from her

cheek with mock discipline. She starts to pour water from

the pitcher into the glass again, then she turns suddenly,

her attention caught.

Her point of view. The doorway. Nehru stands in it. Kallenbach

and Desai are a step or two behind him.

She stands, moving back from Gandhi.

Nehru crosses and kneels in Mirabehn's place. Gandhi looks

up at him and his eyes light. He moves his shaking hand out

and Nehru clasps it. A moment of personal feeling between

them, then

It is a victory. Gandhi's face cracks into a tearful grin.

And Nehru chokes with emotion and laughter at the same time.

He buries his head on Gandhi's hand, clutching it to him.

THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

Bright sunshine. A little boy is pulling a goat by a tether.

He turns with a bright smile.

Reverse angle. Gandhi is walking, holding Ba's shoulder for

support with one hand, and Mirabehn's with the other. It is

some days later.

The boy grins at Gandhi's feigned alarm.

The sound of a motor disturbs them. Gandhi turns.

His point of view. Coming into the entrance, along the bumpy

path are two police cars (early 1920s Morris). They have to

stop because they are impeded by Gandhi's ox-Ford.

Four Indian policeman hop quickly out of the second car. A

British police superintendent, and his British deputy get

more decorously out of the first.

Another angle. Gandhi has turned with his two props, Ba and

Mirabehn. The police are approaching him. Kallenbach is

running from the fields. Nehru is hurrying from another

building carrying sheaves of page proofs. Other ashramites

converge from the fields and buildings.

The British police superintendent (who is Scottish) stops

before Gandhi.

Nehru stares at him and the policemen with growing

incredulity.

It stops Nehru. He looks at Gandhi and sighs in unmastered

frustration, but he moves to Gandhi's side. Gandhi turns to

Mirabehn.

He smiles at them, then slips his free hand on Nehru's

shoulder and he turns to the superintendent.

Featuring Gandhi, Ba and Nehru, as they walk to the car behind

the somewhat surprised superintendent.

He looks at Nehru firmly. Nehru knows him well enough now

not to argue -- even at this, though his face shows the

struggle.

He laughs and Nehru struggles to join in the joke.

THE CIRCUIT COURT - AHMEDABAD - INTERIOR - DAY

A quiet hum in a packed courtroom. Armed sepoys line the

wall.

Featuring Judge Broomfield and the clerk. The Judge is

flipping through documents on the case, a troubled frown on

his face. At last, he shuts the folder and nods to the clerk.

The clerk turns and says in a moderately loud voice --

The sergeant-at-arms turns and moves to the door at the side

of the bench. The courtroom immediately falls silent. The

sergeant-at-arms opens the door -- a moment -- and Gandhi

enters slowly. He has recovered a bit more, but he still

moves slowly.

Featuring Judge Broomfield. As Gandhi enters, he lowers his

glasses, places them on his desk, and rises, facing Gandhi.

Featuring two English court reporters. One nudges the other

in astonishment, signaling off toward the judge.

Their point of view. The clerk, confused as well as

astonished, see the judge standing, facing Gandhi in respect,

and dutifully, he too stands.

Resume the reporters. A disbelieving exchange of glances,

the sound of others standing around them. They glance back.

Full shot -- the courtroom. The whole court rises, the

astounded reporters the last of all.

Featuring Gandhi. He takes the prisoner's stand. He looks

around, a little surprised, a little affected by the

demonstration. He looks up at the judge. For a minute their

eyes meet, the judge makes a little bow to Gandhi. Gandhi

reciprocates... and the judge sits down.

Featuring the reporters shrugging incredulously to each other,

as they sit once more.

Later. The Advocate General is speaking from a folded journal.

There is a little shock of reaction around the courtroom.

The Advocate General smiles with a brittle disdain, then he

turns to the judge.

The judge nods. He turns, glancing at the empty table for

defense counsel, and then to Gandhi.

It is almost a cruel challenge to the obviously humane

Broomfield.

The reporters scribble, watching the Judge even as they write,

because the mere doubt in the Judge's face reflects on the

whole position of the British to India.

Featuring Judge Broomfield. He lowers his glasses soberly,

staring at them for a moment.

He looks up at Gandhi and his own respect for him is almost

poignantly manifest.

A stunned intake of breath from the whole courtroom, then in

absolute silence the clerk scribbles the sentence in his

notebook. A pause. The Judge lowers his eyes.

He folds, and refolds his glasses and then without looking

at anyone he rises. The court rises and he walks stiffly to

his chambers.

Featuring Gandhi. He stands, staring at Broomfield, and now

it is his face that shows the respect.

INDIAN ROAD - EXTERIOR - DAY

Long shot. From far above the hills we see a car traveling

along the road. Its style tells us some years have passed.

Featuring Walker -- close. The reporter from the New York

Times, whom we first saw as a younger man in South Africa.

He is in an open car, turning back to look at something, his

face intrigued by what he sees.

We see from Walker's point of view an Indian woman walking

along the road, leading a tall camel that carries sacks of

produce. Two young girls in ragged saris walk with her, and

a boy of eight leads a smaller camel behind them. They are

staring off at the car.

Resume Walker. He swings back around, fascinated with what

he is seeing of India. The car is an early 1930s Morris Minor.

He shrugs, "Nobody knows"...

Collins has suddenly slowed the car, then swerves around a

pair of elephants hauling logs.

Collins glances at him in surprise as he steers the car around

another procession of camels heading toward the port.

Walker smiles too, but it soon passes.

Collins looks at him in real surprise.

He honks as he goes around a wooden-wheeled cart.

PRANAMI TEMPLE - PROBANDER - INTERIOR - DAY

Simple. Austere. Filtered light. Featuring Gandhi -- close.

He is looking straight ahead.

Reverse angle. Across the emptiness of the temple, Ba faces

him.

Another angle featuring Walker and Collins, who are sitting

alone, in the cool shadows of the temple, watching with

fascination as Gandhi and Ba repeat their marriage ceremony

for them, Walker jotting notes occasionally, but his eyes

always glued to Gandhi and Ba, who are in part lost in

memories and echoes of a significance only they can know.

Wide shot. Showing the two of them before the altar of the

temple, moving closer to each other.

Close shot -- Gandhi.

Featuring Walker, now too entranced by the ceremony, by the

depth of layered emotions in Gandhi and Ba's voices and eyes

to take any notes...

Ba and Gandhi. Near to meeting now.

Ba takes the last step, so that they are face to face. A

beat.

For a moment their eyes hold -- the many dreams, and hopes

and pain -- the love of many years.

Walker watches, his own face taut with emotion.

Resume Gandhi and Ba. And Gandhi slowly lifts his hand.

He touches Ba's lips with his extended fingers and she kisses

them gently.

She has lifted her fingers to his mouth and he kisses them

gently.

Featuring Walker and Collins both touched, the overtly cynical

American obviously even more than the likeable Englishman.

Gandhi turns to them.

THE BAY - PORBANDAR - EXTERIOR - DAWN

A tiny, beautiful city rising steeply out of the Arabian Sea

with tall, thick-walled buildings, half-fortresses, half-

homes, their white walls tinted amber and gold now by the

early light of the sun.

Featuring Gandhi, sitting on a promontory watching the sunrise

in solemn meditation... He becomes aware of the sound of

footsteps and he turns to see Walker approaching, a little

knapsack over his shoulder. Gandhi smiles. Walker comes to

his side, looking out over the bay and city, truly impressed.

Walker looks down at him. Gandhi scowls up in the early light.

Gandhi smiles.

They both watch the waves beat on the shore a moment, the

changing hues of the sunrise on the whites of Porbandar.

He looks out to sea, and we intercut his face with Walker's,

the sea, and the town itself as the sun turns it white.

Walker studies him as this profound man reaches, in his middle

years, a profound insight.

Featuring Gandhi staring out to sea, his mind locked in

reflection, and suddenly his head lifts, his eyes become

alert, he is caught by some excitement which he weighs for a

moment, then he stands, his manner suddenly tingling with

optimism.

Walker stares at him, then at what Gandhi seems to be looking

at.

His point of view. The waves lapping the shore below them.

Walker turns back to Gandhi, puzzled. But there is no

mistaking the sudden glow in Gandhi's face.

Gandhi looks at him, a teasing smile.

The grin broadens, and then he starts briskly down the

promontory. Walker scrambles up after him.

Gulls fly over them, squawking in the growing light. Gandhi

pauses, looking up at the gulls, then back down to the sea.

He turns from the sea to Walker, his eyes confident, elated,

then he continues on down the promontory. Still baffled,

Walker glances at the sea, at him, then hurries after.

Full shot. The waves running against the shore...

LORD IRWIN'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY

Close shot -- the Viceroy, a "new one," Lord Irwin.

Another angle. He is looking in astonishment at his principal

secretary. His ADC, a general, a brigadier, a senior police

officer are with him. Like him they hold the same offices,

but are a new team.

Irwin looks at him, still trying to penetrate the significance

of the act. The senior police officer helps.

Irwin has listened; it's beginning to make a little sense.

The principal secretary blanches.

Irwin looks at his ADC, then paces a bit, pondering it.

A moment as Irwin considers it, then it is the general who

speaks.

Irwin has turned to him. And this makes up his mind.

He is concerned enough to be angry, but certain enough to be

dogmatic.

THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAWN

It is very early, the light just beginning to break, and we

are looking out across the river toward the distant town,

and against the pink glow of the sky we can see people in

groups wading across the river toward the ashram. And suddenly

a mass of people, hidden by the embankment, appear at the

top of the steps coming up from the river, and the camera

lifts slightly with their movement and we see that they are

but the forerunners of a long tendril of humanity that

stretches across the river, all the way back to the distant

outskirts of the city.

And around the ashram many fires are burning, people are

cooking breakfast, some are packing knapsacks for the journey,

others are strewing the path from the ashram with leaves.

GANDHI'S BUNGALOW - INTERIOR - DAWN

Quiet, just the buzz of activity from outside the building.

Gandhi lies on a mat and Ba and Mirabehn are massaging him

with oil as he checks page proofs, an oil lamp by his side.

Nehru sits cross-legged next to him, taking the proofs as

Gandhi finishes them. Maulana Azad sits to one side. Behind

them Desai is making notes on Gandhi's instructions.

He looks at Nehru and Azad solemnly to emphasize the point.

Nehru nods; a little smile.

He means Gandhi of course, and Gandhi accepts the reference,

but it is the acceptance of the strict sergeant major: "Don't

fail me." Then he looks to Azad.

Nehru nods. Ba moves to massage the top of Gandhi's head.

Gandhi grins, looking at Mirabehn, who is massaging his legs.

Gandhi looks at Nehru, a benign shrug.

Nehru smiles. He stands, having taken the last proof sheet.

Azad rises with him.

Gandhi is pleasurably impressed with that.

He leans back and closes his eyes. Ba rubs his head

soothingly. Nehru bends and squeezes his arm in farewell.

Gandhi nods, not opening his eyes. Nehru and Azad smile at

Ba and leave.

THE ASHRAM - LATER - EXTERIOR - DAY

The sun higher, but still early light. A green, white and

saffron flag (the colors of India) is pulled up an uneven

pole. The sound of gentle clapping.

Gandhi is off to one side, just in front of the veranda of

his bungalow, not paying attention to the ceremony. Ba and

Mirabehn watch from the veranda as Pyarelal (Desai's new

assistant), with a knapsack over his own shoulders, hands

Gandhi his. As Gandhi slips it on, the ashramite boy whom we

saw with the goat hands him a long staff. And Gandhi moves

around the edge of the bungalow, heading toward the entrance

of the ashram.

A long line of ashramites and marchers stretches from opposite

the flagpole to the entrance of the ashram. As Gandhi walks

briskly along it, they turn, ready to follow him.

When he nears the entrance Gandhi sees Walker standing in

front of a collection of newsmen, cameramen, a newsreel crew.

He begins to smile, Walker returns it. Gandhi pauses by him.

Gandhi smiles. He turns back toward his bungalow. Ba and

Mirabehn stand there watching, Desai with them. Gandhi holds

their gaze a second, then turns and starts forward. Pyarelal

takes up a position next to him, the marchers follow.

Featuring Walker. He steps back, letting Gandhi proceed into

the range of the cameras on his own. The crowd around the

entrance throws flowers in Gandhi's path, some calling out,

"Long live Mahatma Gandhi!"

Gandhi passes the cameramen and starts along the trail.

THE PATH TO GANDHI'S ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

A thinner crowd here, but going all along the path. To one

side we see two police cars drawn up, and several policemen

(a British officer, a British sergeant, and four Indian

constables) lined up near them.

As Gandhi nears them Walker moves up beside him. Some of the

newspaper cameramen trot behind to get the picture of Gandhi's

arrest. Among the newsmen we see Collins.

Featuring Gandhi and Walker, Pyarelal just behind them all

glancing ahead at the police, who are now quite near.

Walker smiles -- a little uneasily -- for they are now near

the police. Gandhi nods to them amiably as he passes along

in front of them. Walker is turning, watching for a move

from the police but begins to grasp that there may be none.

He hurries along closer to Gandhi again, one eye still on

the police.

Gandhi glances at him. Walker too wears a knapsack. Gandhi

nods to it, though never breaking his pace.

He nods politely toward the British police officer at the

end of the police line. Walker stops, letting the procession

march on by him, looking at the British police officer, then

writing busily in his notebook. Collins stop by him.

AN INDIAN VILLAGE - EXTERIOR - DAY

A dusty approach to a dusty little village. Both sides of

the track are lined with peasants holding flower petals and

leaves, all gazing expectantly down the road. Behind them

the village is strung with the green, white and saffron colors

of Independence.

Two large policemen stand arms-akimbo at the front of them

all, their postures imposing and threatening, though the

impression is somewhat weakened by the children skirting

around them.

A little band of drummers and flute players suddenly begins

to play. The crowd starts to jump up to see, and the flower

petals begin to float in the sky. "Gandhi! Long live Mahatma

Gandhi!"

Another angle. Gandhi and the procession of marchers and

ashramites stride down the dusty road toward them.

A newsreel truck and crew ride along about two-thirds of the

way back. A car of cameramen and reporters tails at the end.

Featuring Gandhi. He looks at Walker, walking along a few

paces behind him, at the side of the procession. He is wiping

sweat from his face.

Gandhi smiles and turns back. He shakes his head.

And grinning at it, he passes by the policemen and into the

cheers of the crowd.

Long shot, high. As the procession trails into the village,

we see several villagers, knapsacks or bundles strung over

their shoulders, run around the police and join the end of

the procession.

FIELD BY THE ROAD - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

In the dark a large group of students comes stumbling,

laughing, across the ditch that separates the road from the

field. The student leader gets clear of the ditch and comes

upon Pyarelal and Walker. They are standing near a group of

American newsmen playing poker by a campfire. He addresses

Pyarelal good-naturedly.

The student leader follows his gaze and the camera pans off

with his glance. We see that the numbers have grown immensely.

Fires dot the field and spread and spread and spread. Behind

Walker and Pyarelal the newsreel truck and three cars for

reporters are spread out around the fires. We identify a

couple of Frenchmen and a Japanese. Walker looks at Pyarelal

and shakes his head in wonder at it all.

TREE - EXTERIOR - DAWN

A small Indian boy is high in a dead tree. Below him a couple

of bone-thin cattle graze in the early light as he stares

off.

DUSTY ROAD - BOY'S POINT OF VIEW - EXTERIOR - DAWN

The huge procession stretched out along the road.

Resume the boy. He grins as though he is privy to some great

secret.

"Y" JUNCTION OF TWO COUNTRY ROADS - EXTERIOR - DAY

A blunt, rotund, powerful-looking woman (Sarojini Naidu) in

an outrageously colorful sari strides along the dusty road

as though she could cover another thousand miles -- and means

to. The sound of hundreds of marching feet, of cars, some

distant singing. The camera lifts and pulls back. We see

that Naidu is marching just behind Gandhi, like a determined

lieutenant, and that the procession has grown even greater.

Two newsreel trucks now, four cars of reporters, some people

riding donkeys, some walking with camels trailing, loaded

with belongings.

And at the "Y" junctions the newsreel crews suddenly go into

action because another enormous procession is waiting to

join the first, mingling already, making one immense column

of humanity.

And as they pass the camera up close we see an extraordinary

variety of participants: old, young, students, peasants,

ladies in saris and jewels, Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, Christian

nuns, Untouchables, merchants, some vigorous and determined,

others disheveled, tired and determined.

Suddenly the sound of waves and gentle wind.

THE BEACH AT DANDI - EXTERIOR - DAY

The camera closing fast (helicopter) as the silhouette of a

man appears running up a sand dune, lifting his arms to the

sky and the camera sweeps over him and up, revealing a

crescent of beach and ocean, and for a second it holds on

the sea as it did at Porbandar, then pivots to the truly

astronomical crowd thronging the shore, an immense wheel of

human beings, and in its hub a gathering around Gandhi. We

descend on that center, recognizing the newsmen, Walker,

Pyarelal, Sarojini Naidu, and at last Gandhi picking up a

handful of natural salt and lifting it high.

During the last of this

A wide-angle shot.

Gandhi in the center of the wildly cheering crowd, the camera

pulling back and back... and the shot becomes black and white,

and we hear the music of Movietone News.

And with that we get the Movietone Music tag and as the film

fades, the lights go up on

LORD IRWIN'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY

A couple of civil servants move about to raise the window

shades while Lord Irwin stares at the blank screen set up in

his office. The general, the brigadier, the senior police

officer, Irwin's ADC and the principal secretary are all

present. The two men who ran the projector are quietly

dismantling it.

Finally, Irwin turns to the senior police officer, who

fidgets, but answers the implied questions.

Irwin sighs.

Irwin nods.

For the first time he is truly angry.

WALL BY A BEACH - EXTERIOR - DAY

A young British subaltern trots up to the wall and looks

down. His face falls.

The beach. Subaltern's point of view. Packed with people

making salt, selling salt, buying salt.

Resume the British subaltern. He looks back.

His point of view. Behind him there is an open military truck

and about twenty sepoys. Formidable for an ordinary crowd,

nothing to handle this. The subaltern stiffens bravely and

signals the men somewhat unconvincingly from the truck.

SMALL WAREHOUSE - INTERIOR - DAY

Men, women and children are making little paper packets of

salt from piles heaped along long tables. A group of policemen

barge into the room, knocking tables and salt and paper in

every direction with their lathis, seizing some of the

volunteers for arrest.

In the chaos an old man calmly picks up a piece of paper

from the floor, a handful of salt, and folds another packet.

WIDE CITY STREET - EXTERIOR - DAY

Nehru is on the back of a big open truck that is stationary

in the street. The truck is loaded with boxes that contain

salt packets and Nehru and eight or nine others are selling

them to people who flock about the truck. The sound of horses.

Nehru lifts his head.

Mounted Indian police are coming down either side of the

street, a wave of foot police running forward down the center.

Some of the people run, others deliberately stand fast.

The mounted police converge on the truck. Nehru is grabbed,

and hurled so that he half falls, half leaps to the street.

One of the men with him is knocked along the ground by a

policeman. He is young and vigorous and he swivels on the

ground as though to strike back. Nehru lunges toward him.

And a lathi is brought smashing across the side of Nehru's

head. He is knocked to his knees; blood streams from his

head. He feels the side of his head, the blood soaking his

hand. He struggles to his feet, facing the policeman who has

struck him.

It stops the policeman for a second, and a sergeant suddenly

intrudes, recognizing Nehru.

The sergeant sighs grimly.

LORD IRWIN'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - NIGHT

The desk lights are on. Irwin, the senior police officer,

the principal secretary. Tension, fatigue, frustration as

the senior police officer outlines the situation.

The senior police officer looks up, realizing his gaffe and

wishes desperately he could relive the last couple of minutes.

He means incite violence. The Viceroy ponders it -- favorably.

The senior police officer is brought up by the chill

directness of it. He looks at Irwin and the principal

secretary for a moment in uncertainty. Then

As he turns to leave Irwin speaks -- almost offhandedly.

The senior police officer stares at him, then

DHARASANA SALT WORKS - EXTERIOR - DAY

Barbed wire stretches on either side of the stockade-like

entrance. Above the gate we see the sign DHARASANA SALT WORKS.

Before it six British police officers and two Indian police

officers command a large troop of Indian policemen. They

face their opposition, unmoving, tense. The camera pans from

them, across a sloping dip in the ground, to a huge group of

volunteers lining up to face the police as tautly as the

police face them.

Walker is off to one side, climbing to stand in the back of

Collin's car. He watches, looking tensely from one group to

the other, almost terrified by what seems about to happen.

Collins leans against the back of the car near him, watching

with an equally appalled expectancy. There are two other

reporters near them.

From Walker's point of view. We see Mirabehn and some Indian

women quietly placing stretchers and tables of bandages near

a group of tents where the volunteers have been housed.

Walker turns back to the two opposing groups at the Salt

Works entrance. We hear only a shuffle of feet, the clank of

a lathi against a metal police buckle. The air itself seems

breathless with tension.

Featuring Azad. He has approached the chief police officer.

He stops before him politely.

Azad looks at him a second, then glances at the troops. He

is clearly afraid, but there is an air of tragic inevitability

in his face.

He moves back to address the volunteers.

He turns and starts down the dip toward the gate and the

waiting lathis of the police.

A series of shots, as Azad leads the first row of volunteers

down and up the dip.

We intercut Walker, frozen, watching the inevitable onslaught,

the British police commanding officer ready to give the first

order.

And with the volunteers a foot from them, the police strike

with their lathis. A groan of empathic anguish from the

waiting volunteers, but then we get A series of shots As the

next row moves forward and the horror of the one-sided mayhem

proceeds heads are cracked, faces split, ribs smashed, and

yet one row of volunteers follows another, and another into

the unrelenting police, who knock bleeding bodies out of the

way, down into the dip, swing till sweat pours from their

faces and bodies.

And through it we intercut with Mirabehn and the Indian women

rescuing the wounded, carrying them on stretchers to be

bandaged. We see Walker helping once or twice, turning,

watching, torn between being a professional spectator and a

normal human being. And always the volunteers coming, never

stopping, never offering resistance.

And finally on sound there is an insistent click, click,

click, like a thud of the lathis but becoming clearly the

slap of an impatient hand on a telephone cradle and out of

the carnage of the salt works we dissolve to

A SMALL INDIAN STORE - INTERIOR - TWILIGHT

Close shot -- a telephone cradle being pounded.

Walker is at the phone at a table in the corner of the small,

cluttered store. His clothes are matted with blood and dirt.

And he continues urgently reading the story that lies on his

notes on the little stand before him.

He shifts the mangled notes and comes to his last paragraph.

He speaks it trying only half successfully to keep the emotion

from his voice.

LORD IRWIN'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY

Silence. The camera moves across the empty room and discovers

Irwin, standing by himself, looking out of the window down

into the street.

Closer. His numb, motionless face is stirred to consciousness

by something outside. He focuses somberly on it.

RAJPATH AND VICE-REGAL PALACE - IRWIN'S POINT OF VIEW -

EXTERIOR - DAY

Through the formal entrance comes a single black car. A

motorcycle policeman precedes it.

VICE-REGAL PALACE - EXTERIOR - DAY

The black car pulls up before the front of the palace and

stops. There is no sign of activity. It is as though the

building and grounds are deserted except for Irwin alone in

his office.

Gandhi gets out of the car. He too is alone. In his dhoti

and shawl he starts to mount the grand stairs.

Wide angle. The great palace, the magnificent entrance, and

the little man in the dhoti, who in a sense has conquered it

all, marching to the great doors. Two Gurkhas spring to

attention and the doors are swung open.

LORD IRWIN'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY

The principal secretary, with a look of faint distaste for

someone out of shot, discreetly moves out of the doors, and

closes them behind him.

Featuring Gandhi, just inside the door. He is looking across

the wide office.

Reverse angle. Irwin is in shadows behind his desk looking,

still, in some kind of shock, staring at Gandhi.

He faces Gandhi stiffly.

The whirr of a camera, and a swift cut to

A SUCCESSION OF BLACK-AND-WHITE "NEWSREEL" SEQUENCES OF

GANDHI'S VISIT TO ENGLAND AND THE ALL-GOVERNMENT CONFERENCE.

Wide screen, but slightly under-cranked with the bad cutting

and predictable music of the old newsreels.

A. Gandhi, Mirabehn and Gandhi's secretary, Desai, waving

goodbye from the boat deck of their ship as it sails --

Mirabehn is holding the tether of a goat -- all of them

smiling at the camera like voyagers everywhere.

B. Gandhi on the steps of Kingsley Hall in the East End of

London being greeted by a cheering crowd. Mirabehn holds an

umbrella over him as he takes a bouquet from a little child.

The now gray-haired Charlie Andrews beams possessively at

his side.

C. Gandhi, in his dhoti, waving to a small crowd as he enters

the gates of Buckingham Palace. A London bobby watches.

D. Gandhi, taking his seat at the conference table among the

formally -- in some Maharajahs' cases, elaborately -- dressed

delegates. A gavel is struck and Ramsay MacDonald begins his

opening address.

Beneath its unctuous political veneer it is blatantly divisive

and clearly reveals the true intent of the Conference. As

Gandhi looks at MacDonald, we read on his face his perception

of the sad truth.

E. Gandhi, Mirabehn and Charlie walking under an umbrella in

the rain, their heads bent in glum conversation.

F. Gandhi being welcomed and kissed by a group of millworkers

outside a large mill entrance identified by the sign

GREENFIELD COTTON MILL, LANCASHIRE. He is hugged and squeezed

by some hefty female millworkers, all grinning happily, Gandhi

not least.

G. Gandhi in a radio studio, seated at a table, a large

microphone labeled "CBS" before him, technicians and Mirabehn

in the glass booth behind him, Walker across the table from

him, the "On the Air" sign bright...

Walker cringes, glancing at the lighted "On the Air" sign.

He signals "Yes" frantically.

He glances at the booth. Everybody including Walker and

Mirabehn are nodding "Yes." Gandhi shrugs, grins at everyone's

excitement, and begins.

As the speech continues in the thin, static-y tones of

thirties' radio, we see Mirabehn and the technicians listening

in the control room./ Walker, across the table from Gandhi./

The outside of Broadcasting House./ The Empire State Building

and Manhattan./ A mid-western farmhouse./ A thirties' radio

set in a thirties' American living room./ A family, listening,

kids playing on the floor, half ignoring it, the mother

ironing, the father in an armchair, a newspaper open.

H. Gandhi shaking hands with MacDonald outside No. 10 Downing

Street, MacDonald smiling the politician's smile, Gandhi

smiling rather sadly.

I. Gandhi on the deck of a boat, sitting on a deck chair,

wrapped in blankets, staring somberly out to sea. Reverse

angle: the wake of the boat in the vast ocean.

THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

The gentle sounds of the country. A girl of twelve leads a

limping goat slowly across the grass. She pauses and looks

up questioningly.

Reverse angle -- close. Gandhi is watching from the porch of

his bungalow. We can tell he is sitting and turned to watch

the goat, but we see only him and a portion of the bungalow

behind him.

He turns back.

Another angle. He is spinning (expertly), and gathered on

the porch with him are Nehru and Jinnah and Patel and Azad

and Kripalani. Desai and Pyarelal are inconspicuously in

attendance as always, Pyarelal now clearly sharing Desai's

role as secretary.

He is in his white suit, the black-ribboned pince-nez. He

sits on a wicker chair, Nehru and Patel lean against the

railing, Azad and Kripalani sit on the floor like Gandhi.

Gandhi winds up what he has done, and starts to rise.

Gandhi has moved toward the steps. He stops and looks at

Patel. A wry, gentle smile.

Featuring Nehru. He looks at Jinnah and shrugs. Jinnah takes

it less philosophically and his eyes burn with anger as he

watches Gandhi head for the young girl with the injured goat.

TRAIN STATION. INTERIOR. DUSK.

Gandhi is moving with the stream of passengers disembarking

from the Third Class section. Ba and Mirabehn are struggling

along behind him, Desai and Pyarelal completing the little

group. They pass a newspaper stand: "Hitler's Armies Sweep

On." As they move out into the flux of the station we see

many uniforms, the sense of a nation readying for war.

A British captain stands before a full platoon of Indian

troops.

As Gandhi approaches, a British Lt. Colonel and his Adjutant

(a Captain) move out from one side of the troops.

Gandhi stops, looks up at him, at the troops behind him.

Gandhi shakes his head with a weary grin.

The British Colonel signals back to the troops.

As a detail marches up to them, the colonel's adjutant speaks

gently to Ba.

She stares at the adjutant belligerently. He looks flummoxed.

Later. Long shot -- high. The colonel and his adjutant

striding toward the exit of the station. Following behind

them, a detail of six soldiers accompanying Gandhi. The camera

tracks across the platform and we see they are being followed

by a detail of six soldiers accompanying Ba. And the camera

tracks again and we see they are being followed by a detail

of six soldiers accompanying Mirabehn!

WINDING BUMPY ROAD - EXTERIOR - DAY

A jeep bounces along the road. It is driven by an American

lieutenant and his passenger is a woman dressed in an American

War Correspondent's uniform (Margaret Bourke-White). As the

jeep passes the camera we pan with it and see the walls of a

palace ahead.

The jeep slithers to a stop, and Bourke-White grabs a camera

that is strapped around her, stands, and takes a picture of

the palace.

AGA KHAN'S PALACE - BOURKE-WHITE'S POINT OF VIEW - EXTERIOR -

DAY

The palace looks evocative -- a lonely, incongruous building.

WINDING BUMPY ROAD - EXTERIOR - DAY

Bourke-White slips back down into her seat; we see the arm

band on her jacket: "Press." The lieutenant starts the jeep

up and they head toward the gate, where we see a British

soldier on guard.

Bourke-White just absorbs it, staring at the palace, taking

in the experience with the appetite of her breed, and her

own particular sensitivity.

GANDHI'S ROOM - AGA KHAN'S PALACE - INTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi sits by the window that is grilled rather than barred.

He is spinning in a shaft of light -- and looking off -- as

we hear a camera click and the rustle of movement. His hair,

only half-gray in London, is now white.

Bourke-White -- who has been moving, crouching to shoot him

and the light -- sags back against the wall, relaxing at

last. She has a smile as penetrating and warming as his.

Gandhi grins and glances toward his dhoti.

Meaning he doesn't wear many clothes. Bourke-White bursts

into an appreciative radiance -- already she has assessed

him, and been won.

WALL AND YARD - AGA KHAN'S PALACE - EXTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi walks along, Bourke-White loping along beside him, a

little distance away, listening, but searching too for an

angle, a moment that is right.

She has Gandhi in the foreground, a soldier on the wall above

and behind him.

Gandhi shrugs but suffers it. We feature him, low, from her

point of view, as he walks on, the soldier pacing on the

wall in the background.

She clicks.

WALLED GARDEN IN THE PALACE - EXTERIOR - DAY

A spinning wheel works rapidly. The camera lifts. Gandhi is

at the wheel and he is smiling off at Bourke-White, who is

trying ineptly to imitate him on another spinning wheel. The

garden they are in has gone to seed a bit, but with latticed

fretwork in the walls dappling sunlight on the grass and

shrubs it is still beautiful.

She's grinning at her own frustration and she keeps trying,

but there's no doubt she means it. Gandhi's smile broadens.

Wryly he lifts his own "product" -- a tiny roll of thread.

And they both laugh... a guard on the wall distantly looks

at them wonderingly.

And she responds to the sophistication of that observation.

He pivots around, moving beside her, and slowly demonstrates

the process, taking her hands, guiding her. Bourke-White

watches him as much as the wheel.

And he smiles a little wisely at her.

His tone is not altogether patient. She looks at him in

surprise and he sighs tolerantly. Then reflectively

Bourke-White looks at him and there is enough sense in this

argument to give her pause.

She stares at him, and we know she thinks him much more

profound than she had thought initially.

BA AND MIRABEHN'S ROOM - AGA KHAN'S PALACE - INTERIOR -

NIGHT

Ba, Mirabehn and Bourke-White sit on straw mats around the

room, an oil lamp is the only light. It is women's talk, but

Ba is defending her husband, speaking simply, but with total

conviction.

Bourke-White accepts it at face value. She opens another

line of inquiry.

Ba pauses.

She's terribly curious, but she doesn't want to offend. Ba

sees both the curiosity and the hesitancy. She smiles across

at Mirabehn, then

Again Ba smiles.

She shrugs... the implication is it was a long time ago.

She looks at them soberly and then they all burst into

laughter like girls.

AGA KHAN'S PALACE - EXTERIOR - TWILIGHT

Military move quietly but urgently in and out around the

main entrance. Two military ambulances are drawn up nearby.

A British major comes down the steps quickly. He is almost

at the bottom when a British army doctor starts to go up

them. The major signals him to one side. They talk quietly

and confidentially.

The doctor shakes his head.

The major looks defeated and depressed by the news.

BA'S ROOM - INTERIOR - TWILIGHT

Ba lies on a mat, a pillow beneath her head, her eyes closed,

her breathing short. Mirabehn sits next to her, rubbing a

hand up and down her arm.

Gandhi sits a little distance away, staring at the floor and

into nothingness. Pyarelal sits inconspicuously behind him.

Azad and Patel come to the doorway, Patel makes the pranam

toward Ba and holds it as he obviously prays. Azad has bowed

his head and he too is clearly making some prayer for her.

Finally Azad takes just a step forward.

Gandhi looks up at him. For a moment he folds his hands

absently, then he stands. He moves to Ba's side and kneels.

She does not open her eyes.

Ba's eyes flutter open. She holds her hand out to him and he

takes it. When he goes to release it, she clutches it. Gandhi

hesitates, and then he sits, holding Ba's hand in his lap.

He looks across at Mirabehn and nods for her to go.

Mirabehn smiles weakly, gives Ba a last little rub of farewell

and stands.

The doorway. Patel stands, letting Mirabehn pass before him

and do down the corridor with Azad. He looks back.

His point of view. Gandhi sitting, holding Ba's hand, his

eyes once more on the floor in their empty stare.

Another angle -- later. The light has changed. A fly moves

along a small section of the floor that still contains a

ribbon of the dying sunlight.

Gandhi still sits, holding Ba's hand, staring into

nothingness.

The doctor appears in the doorway. He pauses, nods amiably

to Gandhi, though Gandhi does not react to his presence at

all. Moving quietly, the doctor goes to the other side of Ba

and crouches, and lifts her wrist to feel her pulse. He holds

it for a moment, then lifts his eyes in doubt and sudden

fateful apprehension. He glances at her, then slowly lowers

her arm and puts the branches of his stethoscope in his ears.

He puts the acoustic bell over her heart... a moment, and he

lifts it slowly, his face confirming for us what he and we

already know: there is no heartbeat. He glances at Pyarelal,

who only lowers his eyes. The doctor turns his head slowly

to Gandhi.

Gandhi. His point of view. His posture is utterly unchanged,

Ba's hand still in his lap, his eyes still staring emptily

at the floor in front of him, but suddenly tears begin to

run down his cheeks. He does not move, there is no change in

his empty stare, but the tears continue to flow.

SMALL COURTYARD OF THE PALACE - EXTERIOR - DAY

The funeral pyre burns, its work almost done.

Mirabehn, Patel, Azad, Pyarelal, stand with other prisoners

and the military wardens in solemn obeisance to the dead --

and the living, for Gandhi sits a little distance from the

pyre, wrapped in his shawl, staring at the dying embers in

tragic and impenetrable isolation as though he may never

move again.

Close shot -- Mirabehn watching him her face wet with tears.

DELHI AIRPORT - EXTERIOR - DAY

Extreme close shot. A piece of cloth, shimmering in a stiff

breeze... For a moment we hold it in silence and then we

hear the sound of an aircraft growing louder and louder. And

slowly the camera pulls back and we see that the cloth is

part of a pennant of the nose of an aircraft.

We cut from the pennant to see the aircraft stopping before

a reception area, a carpet rolled out toward its door.

An Indian regimental band strikes up martial music. A

detachment of Indian Royal Air Force comes to attention at

the shouted command of their NCO.

Featuring the aircraft doors. An elaborately dressed military

aide opens the door and Lord Louis Mountbatten, resplendent

in naval uniform, steps out onto the platform. He pauses and

renders a salute.

ON A BANNERED PLATFORM

Nehru, Lady Mountbatten and dignitaries. English and Indians

watch as Mountbatten approaches a group of microphones

identified as NBC, CBS, BBC, etc.

He grins in his youthful, beguiling manner and makes the

pranam to the cheering crowd.

It is cut off by the sound of a door being opened, close.

THE GREAT PORTICO - VICE-REGAL PALACE - EXTERIOR - DAY

Jinnah stands by one of the great pillars of the immense

portico. It is a break in their Independence Conference, and

as he lights a cigarette, a weary Gandhi approaches him with

Azad. Jinnah's anger is clearly too deep to be left at the

conference table. He slaps his lighter shut and addresses

Gandhi in hushed but fiercely felt words.

Nehru and Patel are approaching from the conference room,

both of them looking worn and angry too. Jinnah raises his

voice deliberately so Nehru will hear.

Jinnah sneers at the idea, though he cools a little.

Gandhi is staring at Jinnah trying to fathom the source of

his anger and fear. He turns to see that Mountbatten has

been standing in the open door to the conference room, as

torn as Gandhi by the conflict, feeling it best controlled

in formal discussion.

Gandhi nods, and reluctantly the adversaries move back to

the conference room. Gandhi is last through the door. He

pauses by Mountbatten, a little sigh -- "How difficult, how

difficult" -- then he puts a friendly hand on Mountbatten's

shoulder and the two of them enter together.

GANDHI'S ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

Featuring Godse waving a black flag and shouting.

We have pulled back and we see a whole gathering of Hindu

youths near the entrance to the ashram. Many wave black flags.

A couple of trucks that have brought them, and a car, are

along the path. Kallenbach is stepping out of an old 1942

open Austin that he has put in a waiting position near the

entrance to the path. The chanting shout "Death to Jinnah!"

suddenly dies. The youths -- and Kallenbach -- look back

toward the ashram.

Featuring Gandhi's bungalow. Nehru has stepped out onto the

porch and he glares at the youths. It is his presence that

has silenced them.

Kallenbach smiles.

GANDHI'S BUNGALOW - INTERIOR - DAY

Gandhi is rising from the floor, where his spinning wheel

sits. He stops, halfway up, listening, then, a weary sigh.

Mirabehn is spinning across the room. She lifts her head as

a signal to someone out of shot.

Gandhi's two grand nieces, Manu and Abha, who help Mirabehn

now that Ba is gone, rise quickly at Mirabehn's signal, Manu

to help with his shawl, Abha to hold his sandals so that he

can slip into them.

It's cross -- he's worried about other things. Mirabehn just

smiles at it. Gandhi looks down at Abha, and taps her sharply

on the top of the head.

She nods obediently, the flicker of a smile around her mouth,

youthful, irrepressible. The beauty of it almost saddens

Gandhi. He taps her again -- gently -- and goes out.

GANDHI'S ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

Kallenbach shoos a chicken from the back seat of the Austin

and dusts off the seat. He steps back out.

Gandhi is approaching with Nehru and Azad, Pyarelal trails

close behind. We have seen Azad and Pyarelal come out on the

porch behind Nehru. As Gandhi near the car a Hindu youth

with a black flag calls to him.

They are all awed, timid even in his actual presence, and

the mood of their gathering has changed altogether. Gandhi

looks at the youth and the line of others.

He sweeps them sternly with his eyes, all his fatigue and

strain showing.

And he lowers his head and moves on to the car, where

Kallenbach holds the door for him, Nehru, Azad and Pyarelal

following.

Another angle. As they get into the car, we see the car that

sits by the two trucks that have brought the youths. In the

back seat we see two men, one of whom is Prakash (The bearded

man at Gandhi's assassination).

JINNAH'S DRAWING ROOM - INTERIOR - NIGHT

Jinnah is on the small balcony of this elaborate room. He is

looking down in a slightly supercilious manner. As usual he

is impeccably dressed.

He has been looking at Gandhi, who sits on the floor of the

large room some distance from him, just lifting his head

from prayers.

Nehru, Patel and Azad are on the same side of the room as

Gandhi. They rise from prayer as Jinnah comes down the steps

to them. Gandhi hesitates, then begins.

And Jinnah has drawn himself up. His vanity is too great not

to be touched by that prospect. He measures Gandhi for a

moment to see that he is sincere, and when he is satisfied

with that, he turns slowly to Nehru, Patel and Azad.

Nehru glances at Patel. They have all been taken by surprise

by the offer -- and do not feel what Gandhi feels. Nehru

looks hesitantly at Gandhi.

It bears the stamp of undeniable truth. Gandhi's eyes sag

with the despair of a man whose last hope, whose faith, has

crumbled around him.

Jinnah smiles cynically, he spreads his hands "See?"

Gandhi stares at him numbly.

THE RED FORT - NEW DELHI - EXTERIOR - DAY

On a platform in the foreground Mountbatten and Nehru. A

band plays the Indian National Anthem loudly and there is

the roar of a tremendous crowd as the green, white and saffron

flag of India is raised on the flagpole.

GOVERNMENT BUILDING - KARACHI - EXTERIOR - DAY

On a platform in the foreground Jinnah and a British

plenipotentiary. A band plays the new Pakistani National

Anthem loudly and there is the roar of a tremendous crowd as

the white, green with white crescent, flag of Pakistan is

raised on the flagpole.

THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

Silence. The little flagpole is empty, the rope dangling,

flapping loosely down the pole.

Gandhi sits on the porch of his bungalow, spinning. The hum

of the spinning wheel. Inside we can just see Mirabehn,

spinning too. But apart from that, he is alone; the whole

ashram seems deserted. We hear the sound of a bell on one of

the goats, fairly distant.

THE PATH TO THE ASHRAM - EXTERIOR - DAY

Featuring Kallenbach. He is taking the goat and tethering it

near the path of the ashram. He stills the bell with his

hand. As he ties it the camera angle widens and we see

Margaret Bourke-White sitting on the grass, watching

Kallenbach and looking off toward Gandhi's bungalow.

Kallenbach looks at her. Her tone criticizes more than his

stilling the goat's bell.

Kallenbach stands and looks across at her, judging, then

appealing to her humanity.

Bourke-White grabs a clump of grass, twists it free, and

sighs. She tosses the grass vaguely at the goat.

Kallenbach stops, staring absently at the ground ahead, then

OPEN TERRAIN AND RAILROAD - EXTERIOR - DAY

The camera is high (helicopter) and moving and from its

position we meet and then pass over an immense column of

refugees -- ten, twenty abreast -- moving down one side of

the railroad track toward camera. Women, children, the sick,

the aged, all burdened with bedding, utensils, household

treasures, useless bric-a-brac and trudging with them every

type of cart, wagon, rickshaw, pulled by donkey, camel, bike,

oxen. It stretches endlessly to the horizon. Tiny green,

white and saffron flags here and there indicate that it is a

Hindu column and spotted through it we see people in fresh

bandages, some on stretchers, sticking out like radioactive

tracers in the huge artery of frightened humanity.

And the camera lifts and tilts, slowly swinging to the

opposite direction, and as it does, reveals another vast

column across the track, several yards away, moving in the

opposite direction: veiled women in purdah, the crescent

flag of Muslim Pakistan here and there. As the camera levels

and speeds along it, we see that this column too reaches to

the horizon, that it too carries its wounded.

An unbelievable flood of desperate humanity.

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT

The sound of the vast refugee column. A woman's arms cradle

a baby in swaddling. Blood has seeped through the swaddling

in three or four places, some of it dried. Flies buzz around

it. And suddenly we hear the woman's sobs and she rocks the

baby and we know it has stopped moving, stopped breathing,

and a male hand gently touches the back of the baby, checking,

and the camera pans up to the face of a man.

Again in extreme close shot so we cannot tell whether they

are Hindu or Muslim. And the man's eyes knot, and he swings

out of shot as he runs in fury and rage at the other column.

LONG SHOT - HIGH

The two columns -- and a howl of hate and grief! And the

camera sweeps to where men are running at each other across

the track, some already fighting. Knives, pangas, hatchets;

women screaming and running; a besieged wagon tipped.

Another angle. And as the fighting grows more fierce streams

of men from each column run back to partake, but the bulk of

the two columns hurries off, scrambling, running, some leaving

their bundles, fleeing the melee in terror.

HINDU/MUSLIM RIOT SEQUENCE - SEVERAL LOCATIONS - DAY/NIGHT

A Muslim pulled through broken glass in an urban market shop./

Night: a Hindu temple daubed with blood, the bodies of women

and children strewn before it; screams, the sound of

fighting./ Mud and straw houses burning, figures running

through them./ A city street: a truck crashes into a barricade

of rickshaws and bales, and is set upon by a swarm of knife-

and panga-bearing men. From the back of the truck opponents

with swords and clubs leap into battle.

NEHRU'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY

Chaos. It and the adjoining office have been made into

something like operations rooms. Military and civilian aides

move back and forth. Telephones at work everywhere. A huge

map on the wall is constantly having data changed by people

receiving messages there.

Nehru is glancing at a telex message; he turns and gives it

back to the military aide who's given it to him.

He turns. Patel has a message he was going to present to

him. He hesitates, grins dismally, and crumples the message --

"No use." Nehru sags. He looks at Patel with haggard eyes.

Nehru nods solemnly.

Patel reacts to that -- surprise, apprehension.

Patel nods grimly -- the noisy chaos of the room. Someone

shouts at Nehru, "Prime Minister!"

CLOSE SHOT - GANDHI

In silence -- looking tragic, tired and defeated. He is

sitting in his characteristic manner, staring down at the

carpet before him.

The camera angle has changed. We are in

NEHRU'S PRIVATE CHAMBERS - INTERIOR - NIGHT

Patel and Azad are there and Pyarelal of course, and with

them now the giant figure of Abdul Ghaffar Khan, the first

time we have seen him among Gandhi's intimate group.

It is an empty and despairing echo of Gandhi's words.

He has turned and seen Gandhi standing slowly. It has almost

stopped him.

He is moving toward the door. It stops them all. Pyarelal

moves tentatively to open the door.

Gandhi turns, looks at him bleakly.

CALCUTTA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

We are high. There are fires, the sounds of spasmodic gunfire,

of looting, screams, the roar of police vehicles and

occasional sirens. The camera zooms in on a poor quarter of

artisan dwellings in narrow streets. Outside one of the houses

is a car, an army jeep, policemen, a few soldiers and a group

of people. It seems a little island of calm in a sea of wild

chaos.

On the roof of the house, a figure moves into the light.

CLOSER - TAHIB'S ROOF

The figure is Gandhi. He peers down at the dark, rioting

streets. Azad, Tahib, a Muslim whose house this is, Mirabehn

and Pyarelal are with him along Abdul Ghaffar Khan.

A police commissioner moves to Gandhi's side, demanding his

attention.

There is a sudden commotion just below them and angry shouts:

"Death to Muslims!," "Death to Muslims!"

Gandhi peers down.

His point of view. A surging gang of youths, many carrying

torches, and far outnumbering the little group of police and

soldiers, are shouting up at the roof. We see three or four

black flags and stains of blood on many of them. A few hold

knives still wet with blood.

A feral roar goes up at the sight of Gandhi, but he stands

unmoving.

Featuring Gandhi. It is a comment too grave for glibness,

and Gandhi is obviously struck by the pain of it. He pauses

for a moment, staring down at the youth:

He makes it mean the youth. For a second it makes an impact,

but then the youth shouts his defiance at him and his message.

An angry chorus of acclamation; when it dies

It is ambiguous, open-ended, meaning anything your mother

and father would wish you to do. Tears flush from the boy's

eyes and he stares at Gandhi with a kind of hopeless anguish

and rage. But the impact is on the youth alone; around him

the others begin to take up the chant "Death to Muslims!,"

"Death to Muslims!"

Gandhi turns from the street. He looks at the police

commissioner -- at his fatigue, his concern, his manifest

respect. Gandhi musters a weary smile.

The commissioner looks at him, uncertain, not knowing what

to do, as the angry chanting continues above the sound of

rioting.

HOSPITAL - INTERIOR - DAY

An old, inadequate hospital -- dark cavernous. Margaret Bourke-

White is moving among the densely packed litter of wounded

women. She is positioning herself to photograph Gandhi, who

is speaking to a woman who cradles a small baby. The corridors

behind him are even more packed. The few doctors and nurses

hardly have room to move.

Featuring Gandhi. Azad and Mirabehn are behind him as he

moves on, and behind them, like a giant guardian, Abdul

Ghaffar Khan. We hear "Bapu, Bapu" muttered quietly here and

there. Gandhi bends to a woman whose face is bandaged and a

cruel wound is half-exposed between her mouth and eye.

There are tears in Gandhi's eyes now.

And the weight of his helplessness hangs on him.

CALCUTTA STREET - EXTERIOR - DAY

A streetcar (tram) crashes into a barricade of carts,

rickshaws, a couple of old cars, smashing through to breach

the barricade, but stopped in the end by the mass of debris.

The streetcar is loaded with Indian troops and they break

from the stalled vehicle to chase A gang of Hindus --

organized -- runs down the street from the troops, some

dragging the bodies of victims with them. We see several

Hindu black flags.

NEHRU'S OFFICE - INTERIOR - NIGHT

He speaks across his desk to a senior police commissioner.

The same activity going on in the background.

An aide slips a newspaper on his desk in front of him. He

doesn't look at it till the senior commissioner lowers his

head and turns, accepting defeat. Then Nehru glances at the

paper.

In thick headlines: GANDHI: A FAST UNTO DEATH!

Nehru doesn't move for a moment. Then he lifts his face slowly

to his aide.

The aide shakes his head -- there's no answer. Nehru lowers

his head again; it is like another burden on a man who already

has too many. He grips his temples... a terrible sigh.

Nehru thinks on it solemnly, then nods yes.

TAHIB'S HOUSE - EXTERIOR - DAY

The sounds of rioting and looting on nearby streets, but

here a mass of people are gathered. Many youths with black

flags. Two black government limousines. Motorcycles. Police

and soldiers. They are looking off to

AN OUTSIDE STAIRCASE - TAHIB'S HOUSE

It runs up the side of the building and is lined with waiting

people. Nehru and Patel are climbing the stairs, moving past

them almost irritably as they mutter "Nehru, Nehru," "Patel,"

and make the pranam to the eminent men.

In the heat of the city Tahib's rooftop is still Gandhi's

"home" and has become a center of activity. Azad clears

someone aside and ushers Nehru and Patel under the canopy

awning.

Nehru pauses as he lowers his head.

His point of view. Gandhi lies curled awkwardly on his side

of the cot. He is writing, Pyarelal taking the pages as he

finishes, both ignoring all the people, the sounds of gunfire

and distant shouting, but he looks tired and tightens his

jaw occasionally in pain. The camera pans. A doctor sits

near the foot of the cot, Abdul Ghaffar Khan beyond him.

Near the other edge of the canopied area, Mirabehn sits with

Bourke-White. They are whispering quietly, but Mirabehn has

stopped on seeing Nehru and she smiles a relieved greeting.

She knows Gandhi's feeling for him. Bourke-White stares at

him and Patel for a second and then her hand goes slowly,

almost reflexively, for her camera.

CLOSER ON GANDHI

Nehru crosses and kneels so that he is almost at Gandhi's

eyeline. Gandhi must take his eyes from his writing to look,

and he is almost moved to tears at the sight of Nehru. His

hand shakes a little as he holds it out to him.

Gandhi turns to pat their joined hands with his other hand.

He does so with effort, and at last he sees Patel.

Patel sits near the head of the cot so the three of them are

on a level. Outside the canopied area, Bourke-White is

crouched, her camera framing the three of them.

Gandhi smiles and reaches to touch hands with him.

Gandhi shakes his head.

It is despairingly sincere. But Nehru feels he has an antidote

for that despair. The distant sound of an explosion.

Bourke-White captures the sense of elation in his face. From

her discreet distance, she lowers the camera, holding it

against her mouth, waiting for Gandhi's response.

Gandhi nods to Nehru, accepting the news with a sad

wistfulness.

Nehru isn't prepared for this resistance. He glances at Patel,

and we see that they recognize that their bland conviction

that they could talk him out of the fast was deeply misplaced.

Nehru turns back -- this time no confidence, only concern. A

forced smile.

Gandhi smiles, pain etched in his eyes. He touches Nehru's

hand.

Nehru stares at him, feeling the sudden fear that Gandhi

means it. Patel, Mirabehn, Azad, Bourke-White are gripped by

the same realization.

TAHIB'S HOUSE - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

An outside broadcast truck is parked among the usual crowd,

grown even larger now, and more women among them. The sounds

of distant fighting.

TAHIB'S ROOF - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

The senior technician, in earphones, signals across to

Mirabehn. She holds a microphone by Gandhi, who is lying on

his side. He seems almost out of touch.

Gandhi looks at her, and then the microphone. When he speaks

into the microphone his voice is very weak.

And now we go into the streets, intercutting with Gandhi but

seeing Hindus listening around loudspeakers on corners, in

little eating houses, Muslim shops where people live in the

back, and neighbors gathering defensively in groups.

He leans back, exhausted. Mirabehn is looking at him; she

starts to sing softly.

Gandhi, his eyes closed, takes it up in his weak, croaking

voice.

TAHIB'S HOUSE - EXTERIOR - DAY

Two police motorcycles lead a black limousine to a stop before

Tahib's house. The crowd now gathered is very large. More

mixed than before but still predominantly of youths, many

still with black flags.

Nehru gets out of the limousine with a Muslim leader, a tough-

looking man who carries himself with the authority and power

of a mobster (Suhrawardy). And they start to go up the outside

stairs.

Suddenly we hear the shout "Death to Gandhi!," "Death to

Gandhi!" And Nehru turns, pushing past Suhrawardy fiercely

and going back onto the street. He runs at the crowd, where

the shout comes once more from the back. His face is wild

with anger and shock.

The crowd has spread from him all along the street; they

stand against the walls of the houses staring at him,

terrified to move. We see, just in passing, the frightened,

apprehensive faces of Godse, and near him, Apte and Karkare.

Nehru stands, staring at them all, his face seething with

anger.

TAHIB'S ROOF - EXTERIOR - DAY

We are featuring a copy of Life Magazine. On the cover is a

picture of rioting men fighting and diagonally a cut-out of

Gandhi lying on his cot. The caption reads: "An Old Man's

Battle." As the magazine starts to be opened, it is suddenly

put to one side.

Another angle. Mirabehn is rising, leaving the magazine at

her feet. She moves to Nehru and Suhrawardy as Azad ushers

them into the canopied area. Abdul Ghaffar Khan sits quietly

in the background. Mirabehn speaks softly.

Nehru looks across at Gandhi. The doctor, who is testing

Gandhi's pulse yet again, glances at him -- no encouragement --

and moves away. Nehru moves to the side of the cot and Gandhi

smiles weakly and holds out a hand, but he is in pain.

Gandhi looks up at Suhrawardy, who nods. Gandhi looks back

at Nehru. There is no hint of him changing his mind.

Gandhi smiles whimsically, he touches him again but there is

no change in his attitude.

Nehru looks at him hopelessly.

SQUARE IN CALCUTTA - EXTERIOR - DAY

A huge crowd, some smoke in distant buildings, some damage

near to help us know this is still Calcutta, and all is not

yet at peace. The camera sweeps over the crowd, past the

loudspeakers on their poles. We see surly knots of belligerent

rowdies, mostly young, but not all, hanging on the fringes

as we move over the heads of the mass of listening people to

a platform where Nehru speaks. Azad, Suhrawardy, and others

sit on the floor behind him. We have heard his voice over

all this.

TAHIB'S ROOF - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

Featuring the Muslim leader Suhrawardy, leaning against a

wall, watching an action out of shot with evident tension.

We hear a little clank of metal.

Another angle. There are five men facing Gandhi. They wear

black trousers and black knit vests. There are thongs around

their arms that make their bulging muscles seem even more

powerful. They are Hindu thugs (Goondas). Their clothes are

dirty -- and they are too -- but they are laying knives and

guns at Gandhi's feet.

Mirabehn, Azad, Pyarelal, the doctor and others on the roof

watch fascinated, a little frightened.

Gandhi is looking at him, testing, not giving or accepting

anything that is mere gesture.

The Goondas stand. They glance at Suhrawardy; he smiles tautly

and they start to leave, but one (Nahari) lingers. Suddenly

he moves violently toward Gandhi, taking a flat piece of

Indian bread (chapati) from his trousers and tossing it

forcefully on Gandhi.

Mirabehn and Azad start to move toward him -- the man looks

immensely strong and immensely unstable. But Gandhi holds up

a shaking hand, stopping them. Nahari's face is knotted in

emotion, half anger, half almost a child's fear -- but there

is a wild menace in  that instability.

Gandhi stares at him, breathless.

It is as though the man has told him of some terrible self-

inflicted wound.

Almost reflexively he holds his hand out to indicate the

height of his son. He glares at Suhrawardy and then back at

Gandhi.

He is sobbing, but in his anger it seems almost as though he

means to kill Gandhi in retaliation. A long moment, as Gandhi

meets his pain and wrath. Then

Nahari sneers, but there is just a flicker of desperate

curiosity.

He raises his hand to the height Nahari has indicated as his

son's.

Nahari has listened. His face almost cracks -- it is a chink

of light, but it does not illumine his darkness.

And now the light falls on Nahari. His face stiffens, he

swallows, fighting any show of emotion; then he turns to go.

But he takes only a step and he turns back, going to his

knees, the sobs breaking again and again from his heaving

body as he holds his head to Gandhi's feet in the traditional

greeting of Hindu son to Hindu father. A second, and Gandhi

reaches out and touches the top of his head.

Mirabehn watches. The Goondas watch. Suhrawardy watches.

Finally

COURTYARD - POLICE STATION - CALCUTTA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

Trucks with riot squads (shields and truncheons) in place,

but they are lounging, waiting. There is silence, and air of

somnolence. Some of the riot squad lounge in little groups

around the courtyard. A distant cough.

Featuring a senior riot squad officer dressed and ready for

action. He it is who coughed. He coughs again, clearing his

throat. A police sergeant stands by him, both are reading

the front page of a paper the senior riot squad officer holds.

We see two huge lines of headline: GANDHI NEAR DEATH/NEHRU

GOES ON FAST.

In one of the trucks one of the men offers another a

cigarette.

A telephone rings sharply, inside. The senior riot squad

officer and the sergeant run in as engines start; the men

run to their places, lower visors, headlights go on!

POLICE STATION OFFICE - INTERIOR - DAY

A constable mans the telephone. He listens as the senior

riot squad officer and the sergeant run to him tensely. The

sound of the great doors opening in the courtyard, more

engines revving up.

He glances up at the senior riot squad officer.

He shrugs at the senior riot squad officer and hands the

information slip to another constable behind the desk.

The sergeant sighs, and moves to the outside door. We hear

him bellow, "Stand down." The constable hangs up and sighs

heavily. The senior riot squad officer shakes his head, and

turns and walks slowly to the door.

COURTYARD - POLICE STATION - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

The senior riot squad officer and the sergeant stand in the

doorway as the engines die. The men relax... the silence

returns. A dog barks distantly, disturbed by the noise... A

bird caws once or twice.

HIGH SHOT - CALCUTTA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT

It lies in silence.

TAHIB'S ROOF - EXTERIOR - DAY

Mirabehn is bent over Gandhi. He is curled almost in the

fetal position, his face looking wan and sunken. For the

first time there is silence, no explosions, no distant shouts,

no gunfire.

We see the police commissioner, Suhrawardy, two doctors,

Abdul Ghaffar Khan, and some others. Nearer Gandhi, behind

Mirabehn, are Nehru, Patel, Azad and Pyarelal.

Gandhi turns to Mirabehn, his face shaking, peering into her

eyes.

His weary eyes look at her; he looks up slowly to Azad. Azad

nods "It's true." Then Patel

Gandhi looks at Nehru. Nehru just nods tautly. Gandhi looks

down, then lifts his head to Azad.

The relief brings water to their eyes and grins to their

faces. Nehru bends to Gandhi. Gandhi holds his hand out to

him, and Nehru clutches it. Then

It is a joke in their way with each other and Gandhi's eyes

light, his smile comes. But it is tired. He puts his other

hand over Nehru's and Nehru lowers his head to it, crying

silently.

BIRLA HOUSE - EXTERIOR - DAY

As in the opening sequence -- but a few minutes earlier. The

crowd is beginning to gather for the evening prayers. We see

a tonga or two, a gardener opening the gate to the garden,

three policemen standing, talking idly among themselves.

BIRLA HOUSE - INTERIOR - DAY

Laughter. Gandhi is eating muli; he holds his head back to

capture the lemon juice. We hear the click of a camera

Manu hands him a cloth and he wipes his hands. Another click

of a camera. He is not fully recovered, but well on the way.

It is all light and for fun. We get a wide-angle shot now

and see that Bourke-White is shooting one of her favorite

subjects again. She is enjoying the banter, as is Mirabehn,

who is spinning quietly to one side of the room, and Patel,

who sits cross-legged like Gandhi on the floor. Pyarelal is

working on papers with him but grins at this.

And she shoots him again, as he hands the cloth back to Manu.

Abha is sitting next to Manu, looking at a collection of

pictures of Gandhi, obviously Bourke-White's.

It is wry, but waspishly chiding. Abha suddenly holds a

picture up for Gandhi to see. It's one of him, ears wide,

eyes round.

Gandhi taps her on the head with his finger as she smiles.

But Bourke-White has looked from Patel to Gandhi, clearly

shaken by the implication in Patel's words.

Abha has signaled to the cheap watch dangling from his dhoti.

He glances at it, and holds his arms out. The two girls help

him.

She is photographing his getting-up and leaning on the two

girls.

He moves off, but has a sudden thought and turns to Patel.

Patel nods soberly and Gandhi starts for the door, Bourke-

White moving with him.

He has passed her, he's in the doorway. We see the crowd at

the end of the garden, where the light of the day is beginning

to soften. He turns, teasing in his slightly flirtatious way

with women.

She shoots him against the door -- the crowd milling

distantly, waiting -- then she lowers her camera.

He turns; the last words have betrayed the smile on his face;

they have a painful sense of truth about them. Bourke-White

watches as he moves into the garden toward the crowd in the

distance.

She turns to Mirabehn.

It's an observation -- and a question. Mirabehn accedes

gravely.

Bourke-White stares at her, then turns to look out at him.

Mirabehn nods, but she keeps on spinning and tries to sound

cynically resigned but her innate emotionalism keeps breaking

through in her voice and on her face.

It is laced with pain. Bourke-White turns and looks out at

Gandhi -- so tiny, so weak as he walks between his "props."

He has now reached the end of the garden and is moving among

the crowd assembled there.

THE GARDEN - BIRLA HOUSE - EXTERIOR - TWILIGHT

Gandhi is moving forward in the crowd, one hand resting on

Manu, the other on Abha. He makes the pranam to someone, the

crowd is bowing to him, some speaking, and we also see the

crowd from his point of view -- "Bapu," "God bless you,"

"Thank you -- thank you." He turns to a very old woman, who

makes a salaam to him. Gandhi touches her head.

Smiling, he turns back. A jostling, the sound of beads

falling.

Gandhi turns to the person; he makes the pranam.

Full shot. Godse is making the pranam to him and he suddenly,

wildly draws his gun and fires. The camera closes on Gandhi

as he staggers and falls, the red stain of blood seeping

through his white shawl.

Manu and Abha bend over him, silent in their first shock.

The sound of panic and alarm begins to grow around them,

they suddenly scream and begin to cry.

FUNERAL PYRE - EXTERIOR - DAY

Blackness. Silence.

A moment -- we sense the blackness moving -- like dark smoke.

The camera is pulling back very slowly and we can tell the

blackness is smoke rising from a fire.

And now we see that it is a funeral pyre. And all around

that pyre a mass of silent humanity. Through the smoke,

sitting cross-legged near the rim of the flames, we see

Nehru... and Azad and Patel, Mirabehn and Kallenbach, the

drawn faces of Lord and Lady Mountbatten, Manu and Abha...

THE RIVER - EXTERIOR - DAY

A helicopter shot coming slowly up the wide river, low, toward

a barge and a mass of people in the distance.

And now we are over the barge, and it is covered with flowers.

Flowers flow downstream around it. An urn sits on it --

containing Gandhi's ashes -- and Nehru stands near it, Azad

and Patel a little behind him. And as the barge floats down

the river, Nehru bends and lifts the urn...

Featuring Nehru. He swallows, restraining his own emotion,

and slowly, ritualistically, sprinkles the ashes over the

water.

And as they spread, we hold on that stretch of the river,

the flowers swirling languidly around it as the dark, timeless

current moves them toward the sea.

And slowly the camera begins pulling back, leaving the

flowers, the brown, rolling current as though leaving the

story of Gandhi, going far out, away from the great river,

reaching higher and higher, through streaks of clouds as end

titles begin.

And through them, once more we hear, dimly, reminiscently,

through the rushing wind:

"At home children are writing 'essays' about him!"... the

croaky voice singing, "God save our gracious King"... Dyer:

"Sergeant Major --," the Sergeant Major: "Take aim!," Dyer:

"Fire!," the sound of massed rifle fire, screams... "You are

my best friend... my highest guru, and my sovereign lord."

"Who the hell is he?," "I don't know, sir." "My name is

Gandhi. Mohandas K. Gandhi."... the sound of rioting, women's

screams, terror... "Find a child -- a child whose mother and

father have been killed. A little boy... about this high."...

"He thinks he's failed."... "Long live Mahatma Gandhi!...

Long live Mahatma Gandhi!"

