The Godfather: Part two

<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

SECOND DRAFT

September 24, 1973

FADE IN:

The Paramount Pictures logo is presented over a simple black

background, as a single trumpet plays the familiar theme of

a waltz.  White lettering fades in:

There is a pause, as the trumpet concludes, and there is the

additional title: - Part Two -

INT. DON CORLEONE'S OLD OFFICE - CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL

CORLEONE - DAY

standing impassively, like a young Prince, recently crowned

King.

CLOSE VIEW ON Michael's hand.  ROCCO LAMPONE kisses his hand.

Then it is taken away.  We can SEE only the empty desk and

chair of Michael's father, Vito Corleone.  We HEAR, over

this, very faintly a funeral dirge played in the distance,

as THE VIEW MOVES SLOWLY CLOSER to the empty desk and chair.

EXT. A SICILIAN LANDSCAPE - FULL VIEW - DAY

We can barely make out the funeral procession passing over

the burnt-brown of a dry river bed.  The figures move

slowly, seemingly from out of hundreds of years of the past.

The MUSICIANS walking unsteadily on the rocky bed, their

instruments harsh and blaring.

They are followed by six young peasant men, carrying the

crude wooden coffin on their shoulders.  Then the widow, a

strong large woman, dressed in black, and not accepting the

arms of those walking with her.

Behind her, not more than twenty relatives, few children and

paisani continue alone behind the coffin.

Suddenly, we HEAR the shots of the lupara, and the musicians

stop their playing.  The entire procession scatters in odd

directions along the rocky river bed.

The young men struggle with the burden of the heavy coffin,

throwing it out of balance and nearly crashing to the ground.

We hear a woman SCREAMING:

EXT. SICILIAN LANDSCAPE - MED. VIEW - DAY

across the slain body of a fourteen year old boy, lying on

the parched ground.  In the distance we see four or five of

the mourning women, the wind blowing their black dresses and

veils, running up to the body of the boy.  They begin to

wail, and cry out in anguished Sicilian, as the widow, the

mother of the murdered boy, holds her child in her arms, his

fresh blood wetting her strong hands.

EXT. BARONIAL ESTATE - TIGHT MOVING VIEW - DAY

A boy, eight or nine, with wide, frightened eyes, being

pulled quickly by the hand.  This is VITO ANDOLINI, who is

to become The Godfather.

The VIEW ALTERS revealing that he is being pulled along by

his Mother, the Widow, across a field leading to the

ornamental gates of a Baronial Estate of some forgotten Noble.

At various positions near the gates are men with shotguns,

or lupara.  The gates are opened; and the Widow and her boy

are shown before DON FRANCESCO, a man in his sixties.  He

wears his trousers with suspenders, and an open white shirt

sloppily tucked in over his enormous belly.  He wears a hat

to protect him from the white-hot sun, and proudly displays

a gold watch and chain over his vest.

He sits in a chair, near a group of his men in the garden,

listening to the Widow, who stands before him with her only

son.

As she pleads, the Widow moves closer to the Don, until she

has practically thrown herself to her knees before him.

Suddenly, she reaches under her skirt, where she has hidden

a kitchen knife.

The boy runs as fast as he can out through the gates.  Then

there is a lupara blast.  He turns, and sees his Mother

flung a distance of five feet from the short range of the

terrible blast of the shotgun.  Then he sees the men turn

their attention to him.  One fires at him; but the boy is

quick, and disappears into a grove of olive trees.

EXT. STREETS OF CORLEONE - NIGHT

Two men roam the deserted streets of Corleone, carrying

lupare.  Every so often, they stop, and one shouts in a

loud, almost singsong voice, like a fish peddler.  Their

names are MOSCA and STROLLO.

INT. A HOUSE - NIGHT

A family quietly eats their dinner.  The father is the local

policeman, as indicated by his uniform jacket and gun,

hanging nearby.

One of the children looks up, about to speak.  But the

father sternly indicates that nothing must be said.  They go

on with their dinner.

EXT. THE STREETS OF CORLEONE - FULL VIEW - NIGHT

The men continue walking up and throughout the streets, far

in the distance.

INT. A BARN - NIGHT

Four little girls watch with wide eyes as their mother and

father bind Vito tightly in swaddled cloth, and then lift

him up to the side of a mule; counter-balancing a heavy load

of firewood.  The father looks at the boy's almost stoically

calm little face.

He pulls the fabric over the boy's face.

EXT. THE CHURCH PLAZA - NIGHT

The men continue on their night-walk, up to the plaza of the

church.

The figure of a single man on a mule passes them.

The man on the mule makes his way out of the village and

disappears into the distance.

We begin to hear, very quietly, the Waltz repeated once again.

EXT. STEAMSHIP - CLOSE VIEW ON VITO - DAY

huddled in blankets, on the deck of the ship in Steerage.

He does not say a word.  The Waltz grows louder as the VIEW

ALTERS, revealing the hundreds of immigrant families huddled

together with all their earthly possessions on their way to

America.

Then, suddenly, the Waltz stops.

THE NEW YORK HARBOR - DAY

SILENCE.  We glide past the Statue of Liberty.

VIEW on the IMMIGRANTS standing on shipboard silently;

looking.  Vito is standing with them, his eyes wide.

CAMERA MOVES IN on the statue, then MOVING PAST, on to the

beautiful buildings of Ellis Island.

EXT. ELLIS ISLAND - DAY

A tugboat pulls a barge brimming with immigrants into the

Ellis Island harbor.  Uniformed officials of the Immigration

Service load them up toward the main building.

INT. ELLIS PROCESSING HALL - DAY

The hundreds of immigrant families sit on rows of benches in

the great hall.  Various painted lines lead to the steps and

processing rooms above.

There is the babble of many interviews going on

simultaneously, uncertainly, in different languages.

Vito is bundled in an old coat, with a large tag pinned on

it: "Vitone Andolini -- Corleone, Sicilia."

He stands, moves up in the line, when several other immigrant

boys, older than he, rush up an push him back in the line.

Weak from the trip, he falls to the floor.  The boys laugh,

derisive in a language he cannot understand.  He struggles

to his feet, lifting his makeshift bags; staring at them in

an icy hatred.

INT. PROCESSING ROOM - DAY

Three or four interviews are crowded into the small room;

they are conducted in English.  From the expression on

Vito's face, and from the fragmented of the English, we

realize that he doesn't understand a word of it.

The man waits, impatiently.

Vito doesn't answer.  The Official pulls the tag pinned onto

his coat and copies to down on his form, using a typewriter.

He hands the form to another official.

CLOSE VIEW on the form.  The name has been entered as Vito

Corleone.

INT. MEDICAL EXAM - DAY

Vito is stripped to the waist, as other immigrants wait.

The DOCTOR is just finishing his examination.  He shakes his

head, and then writes on the medical form.

Vito stares blankly.

He doesn't understand.  The doctor turns to the Immigration

Official.

UNDERGROUND PASSAGEWAY - MOVING VIEW - DAY

Officials move a group of immigrant men, including Vito, to

the quarantine section of the Island.

INT. QUARANTINE HALLWAY - DAY

The official stops at each doorway, and reads off a name.

The man moves into the room, and the group proceeds.

No one responds.  The guard moves to the boy, reads his new

name tag.  And then, not unkindly:

He opens the door, and Vito enters the room.

EXT. THE STATUE OF LIBERTY - DAY

The VIEW slowly begins to pull back, revealing this to be

the view from inside the quarantine cell, where Vito stands

on his bench, looking out to the statue through the barred

window.

Then he turns, and sits in the corner.  He is silent for a

long time.

Then, in a sweet, pure voice, he sings to himself in Sicilian.

INT. CATHOLIC CHURCH - MOVING CLOSE SHOT - DAY

A nine year old boy, dressed immaculately in white, with a

large white silk bow tied to his shoulder, moving slowly

down the aisle of the church with a group of other children

dressed in white.  He has dark black hair, and his face is

unmistakably similar to young Vito's.  He moves slowly, his

hands clasped around a golden missal.  We HEAR only the pure

voice of Vito in Sicilian, his sad song reaching out from

the past, as ANTHONY CORLEONE, his Grandson, moves on the

way to his First Holy Communion more than fifty years later.

FULL VIEW

The little children move in procession down to the Altar,

where the PRIEST raises the Host, and performs the Communion

Mass in Latin.

MOVING VIEW ON THE PRIEST

and Altar boys, as he moves along the row of kneeling

children, blessing them, and administering their first

Communion.

CLOSE MOVING VIEW

as the innocent faces receive the Host; finally, the Priest

comes to Anthony.

EXT. LAKE TAHOE ESTATE - DAY

The lawns of this great estate on the shore of Lake Tahoe

are covered with guests of a wonderful party to honor the

First Holy Communion of Anthony Corleone, the son of Mr. and

Mrs. Michael Corleone.  A full dance orchestra plays music

of the times on a pavilion bandstand built especially for

the occasion.  Speedboats roar through the water, pulling

youthful waterskiers; and the pool and private harbor are

filled with laughing, swimming guests.  It is Fall of 1958.

MED. VIEW

Anthony, in his Communion suit sits alone at the table,

looking like a lonely young Prince.

He does, and a flash goes off.

KAY CORLEONE enters from the side, leading her four year old

daughter, MARY, and MAMA CORLEONE to pose with Anthony.

She smiles as she leaves the photographer, and then lets out

a weary sigh to Mama, as she touches the slightly protruding

belly.

A slender, aristocratic WOMAN in her late forties is waving

to KAY.

Kay puts her arm around little Anthony's shoulder.

EXT. TAHOE GATE AND KENNELS - DAY

A confusion of cars; arriving and parking.  The squad of

parking attendants are supplemented by a whole team of the

local Police, working as high-class parking valets.

A very beautiful, statuesque woman, though slightly drunk,

DEANNA DUNN, slams the door of a powder blue Mercedes and

hurries barefoot through the great stone gate.

She is followed by a harried, FREDDIE CORLEONE, dressed with

flash in the Hollywood style, and carrying her shoes in his

hands.

Deanna pauses reflectively a moment, allowing Fredo to get

her shoes on.

She kicks off the shoes, giggling, and runs toward a waiter.

She extends her hand to him.

Disgusted, she turns around, and heads toward the music.

EXT. TAHOE LAWN AND TABLES - MED. SHOT - DAY

Rushing through the tables, waving an arm jangling with gold

jewelry, and carrying several gift-wrapped packages, is a

hardened and aging CONNIE CORLEONE.  She is followed by a

blond, and wrinkled-handsome escort named MERLE.

She throws her arms around her Mother, who returns the

affection somewhat reproachfully.

EXT. THE BOATHOUSE - DAY

A porch-like foyer of the boathouse, where a group of five

or six men wait, some nervously.  Some sit, and some pace.

MED. CLOSE VIEW

on one of these men, FRANKIE PENTANGELI, approaching his

sixties, with gray hair (the little of it left).  He's a bit

scruffy, this morning's shave of his white beard is not

perfect, and he seems tired.  He is accompanied by an

associate-bodyguard, WILLY CICCI; thin and dark, and also

dressed up for the occasion.  Frankie tries to get the

attention of one of the waiters; a college-groomed young man

in white sports jacket and black bow-tie.

Finally, he sees someone he recognizes, Fredo, and shouts

out in a husky voice:

Fredo squints in his direction; finally recognizes him.

They get a good laugh at this fresh breath of New York.

EXT. TAHOE PAVILION - MED. VIEW - DAY

The orchestra wears white summer sportcoats and black tuxedo

slacks as they play a tango behind monogrammed music stands.

A professional dance team, probably imported from Vegas,

dance the tango for the excited guests.

INT. TAHOE BOATHOUSE - DAY

A large and very beautiful room overlooking the lake.  It is

dominated by an enormous bar, behind which stands ALBERT

NERI, discreetly in the background.

MICHAEL CORLEONE sits on a large sofa, his back to us.

Standing to one side is a tired and somewhat uneasy TOM

HAGEN.  Standing before Michael is SANDRA CORLEONE, Sonny's

widow; her daughter, one of the twins, FRANCESCA CORLEONE,

and a handsome young man of twenty, GARDNER SHAW.

The couple sit themselves on the sofa opposite Michael.

VIEW ON MICHAEL, calm, thoughtful.  One can tell that he has

special affection for his niece.

There is a loud KNOCKING on the door; then Fredo's voice.

Neri goes to answer it, cracks the door open.

Neri closes the door, and Michael looks at the nervous young

man.

They all smile, and rise.

They laugh; Michael moves toward them.  Francesca throws her

arms around him, and kisses her favorite uncle.  The flushed

young man shakes his hand heartily.

They all take their leave; Michael turns to Hagen.

EXT. TAHOE SWIMMING POOLS AND HARBOR - DAY

Francesca and Gardner are greeted by her twin sister and

their young friends, who squeal and embrace at the good news.

Someone throws someone in the pool, and life is good.

MED. CLOSE

Francesca kisses her Aunt Kay.

VIEW on Kay - happy for her niece.

INT. TAHOE BOATHOUSE - DAY

Michael sits in the darkened boathouse.  Tom Hagen paces.

Michael is looking at photographs.  Neri stands over him.

CLOSE ON MICHAEL

studying the pictures.

CLOSE ON THE PICTURES

Snapshots of a middle-aged man, handsome, Italian.  There is

something familiar about him.

Michael looks at another picture.  The same man.  Only

younger, and dressed in Sicilian shepherd's clothing.  We

remember him as FABRIZZIO...Michael's traitorous bodyguard

in Sicily.

Michael puts the pictures down.

Michael glances at Hagen, who has been waiting in the room.

Hagen brings him a folder; then, as Michael glances through

it:

Neri moves to the bar, to prepare Michael a drink.

Michael glances at Hagen, as though that last remark was

unnecessary.

Michael doesn't want to see her.

Michael nods.

Neri opens the door; Hagen exits, and Connie steps in

impatiently, followed by Merle.

Connie steps forward, kisses Michael on the cheek.

Michael is silent.  Then he rises, and moves to the window

overlooking the lake.

She turns angrily, leaving Michael standing face to face

with Merle.

Merle puts out his cigarette and leaves, quickly.

EXT. TAHOE PAVILION - FULL VIEW - DAY

The orchestra has struck up a "Paul Jones," where two

concentric circles of young people march in opposite

directions, until the music stops.  Then they take whomever

is opposite them as their new dance partner.

VIEW ON THE HARBOR AREA

Francesca and her twin, Gardner and their elite young

friends roar out of the private harbor, to get up on the

water skis.  We notice ROCCO LAMPONE, move along a path

leading to a separate and more private boathouse.  A small

covered craft approaches, ties off, and a group of three men

step on to the pathway, shake hands with Lampone - and

follow him to the large boathouse where Michael conducts his

business.

CLOSE VIEW

Pentangeli has led Mama up to the dance floor, and is having

some difficulty with the orchestra.

He waves his hands, conducting, and singing.  The piano

starts a vamp, the drums uncertainly join in.  A clarinet

starts to play "Pop Goes the Weasel," and soon the rest of

the orchestra is playing that.  They look to Pentangeli for

approval.  Disgusted, he goes back to his table, eating a

handful of canapes.

INT. THE BOATHOUSE - DAY

Rocco ushers an older Italian, bundled up against the cold

and wet of his boatride, to Michael.

The man shows respect to Michael, who quickly indicates that

Neri should get him a drink.

The older man, JOHNNY 'BLUE BOY' OLA, gestures to his

bodyguards, and they follow Lampone.

Tom shakes hands with Ola, remembering him, and his

importance.

He gathers up some of his papers, as the three men remain

silent, waiting for him to go before they talk.  It's clear

Tom doesn't want to be excluded.

Hagen nods and leaves.  As soon as the door closes:

There's a KNOCK on the door; a moment, and then Rocco

quietly enters and takes his place without disturbing the

conversation.

The door opens suddenly, and standing there in his white

Communion suit, is Michael's boy Anthony.  A moment later,

Kay appears, and takes the boy's hand.

Pause; she stands there a moment.

EXT. THE BOATHOUSE - DAY

Kay closes the door.  It seems as though Michael has violated

some sort of promise to her by having this man here today.

She looks up toward the first boathouse.

WHAT SHE SEES:

The covered launch, and Ola's three bodyguards, eating while

they wait.

MED. VIEW

Anthony runs away from her, heading toward the house.

Moodily, the boy stops, turns, and walks back to his table

of honor without answering her.

EXT. TAHOE TABLES AND PAVILION - VIEW ON THE PAVILION - DAY

The orchestra has taken its break; now two couples in formal

dress are performing the Quartet from Rigoletto.

VIEW ON HAGEN

sitting by himself, a little down, having a drink.  He's

waiting for Michael to re-summon him.  SANDRA, Sonny's

widow, sits opposite him.

Sandra gets up, still an attractive woman, and walks alone

to the back path that leads to her home on the estate.

VIEW ON THE PAVILION

The returned orchestra strikes a big, show-biz chord,

intended to command the guests' attention.

The orchestra LEADER raises his hands for silence, and makes

an announcement over the P.A. system.

A big hand, as the smiling SENATOR introduces his WIFE by

holding her arm up to the crowd, and then proceeds alone to

the bandstand.

MED. VIEW

Michael stands with Kay and Mrs. Geary.  The Senator's

presence seems to be a statement of political and social

status.

A little distance away, his beautiful son Anthony sits

quietly, in an unmistakably morose mood.

INT. TAHOE - SANDRA'S HOUSE - DAY

We HEAR the applause and whistles echoing in the distance.

Sandra stands in her bedroom, looking at the door.  We SEE a

photograph of SONNY, and also one of their wedding.

A moment goes by, and then Tom Hagen enters, closing the

door behind him.

We begin to HEAR Senator Geary's amplified voice resounding

over the lake.  Hagen moves to Sandra.  She takes him in her

arms, comforting, holding his head against her full breast.

He moves to the dresser; pours himself a drink.

Sandra pulls Hagen to her, and kisses him passionately on

the mouth.

Sandra knows he needs her.  Slowly she begins to undress.

EXT. THE PAVILION - VIEW ON SENATOR GEARY - DAY

Applause.  Senator Geary returns the microphone to the

Maestro who adds:

He turns to a small Choir Master, who leads the Boys' Choir

in a choral arrangement of "MR. WONDERFUL."

VIEW ON SENATOR GEARY

shaking hands with Michael, as Press Photographers snap

pictures, showing the check; showing a special award of

Gratitude from the State; Mrs. Corleone and Mrs. Geary; all

together; Michael and his son; Senator Geary and Michael's

son; and on and on.  In the midst of this:

Michael indicates the boathouse a distance away, where Neri

seems to be waiting for them.  Then Michael leans to Rocco:

Rocco sets off; as more pictures are taken, and the:

BOYS' CHOIR

sings its lovely arrangement of "Mr. Wonderful."

INT. TAHOE BOATHOUSE - MED. VIEW - DAY

Michael, the Senator, Neri and Rocco make a group in the

dark, large room.

The door opens, and Hagen sheepishly makes his way in.

He addresses that to Neri, who resentfully goes to fetch the

Senator a glass of water.

Michael nods, indicating that he should do so.

Michael is taken aback; he looks at Hagen.

Hagen is frustrated; all his information was wrong.

VIEW ON HAGEN

glances at Michael.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

makes no outward reaction.

VIEW ON GEARY

rising.

He is almost out the door.

Geary turns back.

Geary returns Michael's hard look; then laughs and leaves.

Slowly Michael turns to Hagen.

VIEW ON HAGEN

embarrassed at being so off the mark.

EXT. THE PAVILION - NIGHT

Now the light has faltered, and the young waiters have put

up the night lights.  The tables are all properly set for

dinner, with candles on each one.

The orchestra is playing quiet, unobtrusive dinner music,

and many of the guests have begun to help themselves to the

impressive buffet, under a party tent.

MED. VIEW

Michael sits at a large table with Kay, his son Anthony,

Mama, Hagen and TERESA, Connie and Merle' Fredo and Deanna,

and Frankie Pentangeli.

This, the table of honor, all raise their glasses and repeat

the toast.

By now, the conversation has become exclusively Sicilian,

with Merle and Deanna, looking from side to side like in a

tennis match.  Finally, Kay, to be polite:

INT. TAHOE BOATHOUSE - NIGHT

Pentangeli is angry; but because it is Michael he is talking

to, he keeps his voice low and represses his desire to shout.

Pentangeli takes his hat, and leaves.

EXT. THE LAWNS AND TABLES - FULL VIEW - NIGHT

By now the sun has fallen and the lawns of the Corleone

estate are lit by moonlight.  Beautifully dressed couples

dance as the orchestra plays a foxtrot of the late fifties.

VIEW ON THE DANCE FLOOR

Deanna has been dancing with Fredo; she has gotten drunk and

it teasing her husband by flirting with other men on the

floor.

By now guests are starting to notice the disturbance;

Michael is with Kay, and some friends; Rocco catches his eye.

VIEW on Kay, listening, embarrassed by her flashy sister-in-

law.

VIEW ON FREDO AND DEANNA

Rocco passes by Fredo and whispers:

Without another word, Rocco grabs firm hold of her and

whisks her out of the crowd.

Freddie mops his forehead, and moves to Michael.

EXT. THE HARBOR DECK - NIGHT

A large group of Tahoe teenagers join the Corleone youngsters

sitting around a large fire out by the harbor.  Gardner and

Francie, sitting arm in arm.

EXT. TABLE OF HONOR - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

Little Anthony, in his white suit, sitting alone.

EXT. MAIN GATE - NIGHT

A taxi pulls up, and is signaled over to the gate by a

policeman carrying a torch flashlight.

Connie and Merle enter; Merle tips the cop, and the cab

drives off.

EXT. DANCE FLOOR AND PAVILION - MOVING TWO SHOT - NIGHT

Kay and Michael dancing in the moonlight.

He has no answer for her; except that he loves and values

her, and holds her tight, as they dance amid their guests,

all dressed elegantly for the social event of the season.

The VIEW LOOSENS to show the entire, night-lit party.

EXT. LAS VEGAS CHAPEL - MED. CLOSE VIEW - NIGHT

A Cadillac limousine waits for some people inside the tacky,

Las Vegas marriage mill.

INT. THE CHAPEL - NIGHT

Some quiet, informally dressed couples wait in the rear of

the chapel; some talking, others sitting nervously.

A single organ plays some standard wedding music.

The VIEW PANS up to the altar, where Connie and Merle, in

the same clothing they wore to the Tahoe party, are being

married by a Justice of the Peace.

The Justice goes through the bored, simple ceremony, and we

begin to HEAR an echo of the waltz Connie danced with her

father, when she was married all those years ago in Long

Island.

EXT. THE TROPICANA - LAS VEGAS - MED. VIEW - DAY

A dark car pulls up to the glitter of the neon facade.

Albert Neri, alone, leaves it to the parking valets, and

moves quickly through the automatic doors, into the main

casino.  We still hear the CORLEONE WALTZ.

INT. THE TROPICANA - DAY

Albert Neri enters the room; glances around a moment, and

then heads toward the crap table, where a short, middle-aged

man, KLINGMAN, stands by the pit boss.  Several security

guards of the casino, are at their posts.

Neri stands in front of him, smiling.

Quickly, Neri moves toward Klingman, and slaps him hard

several times in the face, knocking off his glasses... Red-

faced, Klingman gets down on his knees to pick them up once,

again.  Glasses on, he looks to his guards.

WHAT HE SEES

They stand, motionless.

VIEW ON KLINGMAN

Humiliated, Klingman moves across the casino floor, past a

few interested gamblers, and his own people.  Neri slowly

follows.

INT. SHOWROOM - MED. VIEW - DAY

A typical, Lido de Paris type of show is in rehearsal, as

Klingman backs into the showroom.

HIS VIEW

Neri keeps coming.

VIEW ON KLINGMAN

realizes that no one will help him.  He finally capitulates.

Neri keeps moving, then heads past the terrified man, sits

down at a table, and looks up at the stage.

EXT. A STREET IN BUFFALO, NEW YORK - NIGHT

The neon lights that spell out "FRED'S PIZZERIA" go out;

after a moment a man in an overcoat steps out, and turns to

lock the door of his restaurant.  The Corleone Waltz

continues over this.  He turns.

MED. CLOSE VIEW

FRED VINCENT, whom we remember as the Sicilian Fabrizzio.

He moves toward his parked car.  Gets in.

MED. LONG VIEW

The starter turns, and the automobile blows in a great

explosion.

EXT. THE TAHOE ESTATE - NIGHT

The waltz continues over the VIEW of the empty, but still

illuminated pavilion.  There is the debris of the great

party spread over the grounds, which a silent crew of

workmen are at work cleaning up,

MED. VIEW

Michael walks alone, followed by two of the family dogs,

Irish Setters.

He walks to the water line, and looks out across the lake.

He picks up a stick, and throws it for the dogs; who go

scampering after it.

We notice that a respectful distance away, there are

bodyguards watching every move he makes.

CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL

looking across the lake.  There is much on his mind.  The

SOUND of the waltz, begins to segue into the echoed music

and laughter of an old Italian Music Hall from the past.

INT. NEW YORK THEATRE - 1915 - NIGHT

VITO CORLEONE is a shy young man of 23, holding his hat in

his hand, being led down the crowded aisle of this Italian

Vaudeville theatre by an energetic and fulfilled GENCO

ABBANDANDO, his friend in America.  This entire sequence is

played in Sicilian.

VIEW ON THE STAGE

A tattered melodrama is in progress in Neapolitan.  The sets

are two-dimensional, and flap whenever there's an entrance

or exit.

The hero, PEPPINO, is weeping as he sings about how he's

left his Mother in Italy, while he is in this new country,

America.

VIEW ON THE AUDIENCE

All poor, Italo-Americans.  Genco finds a few seats, and

leads Vito to them, stepping on a few shoes in the process.

They have barely come to their seats, when an excited Genco

nudges Vito, and points to the stage.  People shout that

they should sit down.

VIEW ON THE STAGE

There is a knock on the door, and a young girl enters,

delivering a letter to Peppino in his tenement in America.

The girl is pretty; and obviously the object of Genco's

affection.  The letter brings bad news.  Peppino's Mother is

dead.  He weeps, and sings the final song, which most of the

audience knows: SENZA MAMMA.

VIEW ON THE AUDIENCE

Genco is enthralled with the young actress.  The people in

the audience are singing along with Peppino.

VIEW ON THE STAGE

The actress, object of Genco's affection, makes a dramatic

exit.

VIEW ON THE AUDIENCE

Genco pulls on Vito's jacket, indicating that now that his

love is offstage, they should leave.  Vito rises with him,

and they make their way all the way down the aisle.

INT. BACKSTAGE THEATRE - MOVING VIEW - NIGHT

Genco hurrying down the backstage corridor, hoping to catch

a glimpse of the actress.  He is followed by Vito.  Suddenly,

Genco stops short.

GENCO'S VIEW

A heavy-set, fierce looking Italian wearing an expensive

light-colored suit and a cream colored fedora.  This is

FANUCCI.  He is discussing a business matter with the

theatre IMPRESARIO; a large, strong looking man, who is

sweating nonetheless.  He doesn't seem to be giving in to

Fanucci.  He holds a locked strongbox.

VIEW ON VITO

watching.  The two men argue in Italian.

MED. VIEW

The young ACTRESS crosses into the area, unaware of the

difficulties.  The impresario sees her, and frightened,

motions that she should keep away.

But Fanucci grabs her easily by her slender wrist, and with

lightning speed, produces a knife which he holds against her

cheek.  The impresario wrings his hands in agony.

Whereupon he begins to unlock the box which holds the

receipts for the night's box-office.

VIEW ON GENCO AND VITO

hiding, watching.  At first, Genco is enraged, as though he

would rush up to help his enamorata.

Then he backs away.  Vito looks at him shocked and

disappointed in this cowardly behavior.  Genco shakes his

head, and points, as though to say that where Fanucci is

concerned, there is nothing to be done.

VIEW ON FANUCCI

has released the girl.  Her father pulls her away from him,

and slaps her for no reason; then he pays Fanucci.

EXT. NEW YORK ALLEY - NIGHT

Genco and Vito; Genco leans against the wall, breathlessly,

as though he's had a near escape.

Genco embraces his good friend, and they laughingly walk

down the alley.

The stage door opens, and Fanucci exits, a sinister figure

in white, moving down the alley just in front of them, into

the night.

The two friends hold their breath, until he disappears.

EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - MOVING VIEW - DAY

Vito moves through the street, carrying groceries that he is

to deliver.

It is cold, and so vendors are huddled around fires they

have lit in old cans and drums.

He turns up an alleyway, and then stops.

VIEW UP THE ALLEY

With great strength, Fanucci lifts one of them up into the

air and throws him down hard to the concrete; but another,

holding onto his back, manages to produce a switchblade

knife and awkwardly reaching around from behind the moving

man, slits Fanucci's throat from one side to the other.

Fanucci groans like some great hurt animal.  Blood pours

from the deep, smile-like slit in his throat.

He throws the young man off his back.

VIEW ON VITO

stepping back in the alley.

VIEW ON FANUCCI

He takes off his white fedora, and runs down the alley

toward Vito, catching the flowing blood in his hat.

The young attackers scurry off in various directions.

INT. ABBANDANDO GROCERY STORE - DAY

A tiny shop featuring imported food: trays of cured meats,

prosciutto, copagole, mortadella lies on the counter covered

with netting to keep away the thousands of flies.

Olive oil is sold in bulk, as well as wine, cheese and bacala.

Genco works here for his father, and is busy slicing paper

thin prosciutto for a customer, by hand.  Vito works in the

back as a stock clerk.

Finished with his customer, Genco moves to his friend.

A customer enters; and Genco moves away to serve him.

CLOSE VIEW ON VITO

recalling what he had seen and thought.

EXT. NEW YORK ALLEYWAY - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

A young man, one of those who had tried to kill Fanucci,

runs down an alleyway, breathlessly.  Then he stops, and

looks behind himself.  Whoever was following him is gone.

He turns and walks ahead.  Then the mammoth, white-suited

figure of Fanucci leaps down before him from the fire-escape.

He grins at the young man, and then raises his neck, showing

the gruesome wound that marks his throat.

He takes out his pistol and fires point-blank at his attacker.

INT. TINY TENEMENT - FULL VIEW - NIGHT

The very small, railroad type flat where Vito lives with his

new family.

It is late at night, and he is exhausted.

He returns home; where his young wife, CARMELLA, goes

through the silent ritual of preparing a simple meal for him.

He sits and eats quietly.

INT. TENEMENT ROOM - NIGHT

Vito and Carmella enter the darkened bedroom, and approach a

metal crib.  Vito reaches down and takes the small hand of

the baby between his thick peasant fingers.  Carmella waits

a respectful distance behind him.

INT. ABBANDANDO GROCERY - DAY

The shop bell RINGS; SINGER ABBANDANDO turns to see a

smiling Fanucci tipping his hat, like an old customer.

Immediately, Vito turns back to his work, and Signor

Abbandando moves to Fanucci with a sigh.

Vito notices the two men talking quietly at one side of the

store, while he goes about his work.  Genco works his way

closer to his friend.

Vito watches the heated, but inevitable transaction.

MED. VIEW

Signor Abbandando seems to be arguing with Fanucci, and

every so often they turn and relate to where Vito is working.

Then Fanucci leaves, the little bell RINGING; and Signor

Abbandando reluctantly moves to Vito.

It is clear that he has something difficult to tell the

young man.

Vito looks at him a while, as the old man struggles to tell

him.

The old man nods, regretfully.

Vito takes off his apron, and leaves, passing the youth who

loiters by the counter.

EXT. THE STREET - DAY

making his way from the store.

He turns, and Abbandando has followed him out of the shop,

holding a basket of some groceries.

INT. VITO'S TENEMENT - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

Vito and his wife sit quietly at the table; the two are

quiet and sad.

Suddenly, we HEAR a noise, and Vito is astonished to see a

young man, PETER CLEMENZA, leaning out of the window on the

other side of the air shaft which separates their apartments.

Automatically Vito reaches over to the empty space at the

air shaft, and takes the bundle of rags.  Clemenza's round

face is strained and urgent, obviously in some kind of

trouble.  Suddenly, he closes the window and there is

activity that we cannot see in the other apartment.

Vito looks to his wife, and then closes the window and

window dressing and takes the bundle into a private part of

his kitchen and begins to unwrap it.

WHAT HE SEES:

Five oily guns.  He immediately wraps them again, and

carries them to a private closet, and hides it, and returns

to his wife.  He sits down back at the table; and she knows

not to ask him what has happened.

EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - DAY

Vito is walking through the crowded streets with a group of

workmen; they all wear work clothes, and paper hats on their

heads.

Vito looks to his left, and realizes that Clemenza is

walking silently with him; by contrast, Clemenza dresses well.

Vito nods.

Vito, his face impassive, shakes his head 'no.'

INT. DOWNTOWN ITALIAN SOCIAL CLUB - DAY

Vito and Clemenza drinking wine; they've become friends.

Vito thinks, then nods.

INT. HALLWAY WEALTHY APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

The two men proceed up the hallway; Vito is impressed with

the opulence.

Clemenza knocks on the door as though he is well known here;

then rings.  No answer.

Quickly and expertly he takes out a tool and pries open the

door.

INT. WEALTHY APARTMENT - FULL VIEW - DAY

Vito looks in awe at the luxurious apartment, which features

a fabulous rich red wool rug.

Clemenza immediately moves some of the furniture away, and

drops to the floor.

Vito joins him, and the two begin rolling the rug.  We HEAR

a BUZZER RING.  Clemenza immediately drops his side of the

roll, and moves to the window.  He pulls a gun from his

jacket.

VIEW ON Vito watching.  He moves so he can see out the window.

THEIR VIEW

A Policeman stands at the exterior door, waiting.  He rings

the buzzer again.

VIEW ON CLEMENZA

cocking his gun.  Vito realizes that if the Policeman should

pursue it any further he is a dead man.  The Policeman gives

up and leaves.

Clemenza puts away his gun.

INT. VITO'S TENEMENT HALLWAY - DAY

The two men run up the steps, laughing, carrying the fine rug.

INT. VITO'S TENEMENT - DAY

They are on their knees cutting the rug to fit the small

room.  Carmella watches, holding the baby SANTINO.

MED. CLOSE ON CLEMENZA

Like a professional, cutting quickly, with the proper tools.

He sings as he works.

EXT. DOWNTOWN WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Clemenza knocks on the steel door of this downtown building.

Vito waits with him, holding some packages; and another

youth, TESSIO, tall and thin and deadly waits with them.

The door is lifted, and they are greeted by a bright,

middle-aged Italian named AUGUSTINO who leads them into a

machine shop.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - NIGHT

Clemenza looks up on a higher level.

HIS VIEW

There is a nine year old boy, operating a drill press.

MED. VIEW

The men then quickly open the packages they've brought;

revealing gun, including a more sophisticated machine weapon.

Augustino takes them and expertly begins to clean and

prepare them.

VIEW ON THE BOY

wide-eyed... he shuts off the press; and takes out a shabby

wooden flute.  And begins to play a simple and pure melody.

CLOSE ON VITO

listening.

CLOSE ON AUGUSTINO

proudly smiling, as he prepares the machine gun.

CLOSE ON TESSIO

listening, smiling.

FULL VIEW

The men listening, as the boy's father prepares their guns.

EXT. WAREHOUSE AREA - NIGHT

Tessio and Clemenza quickly load racks of cheap dresses.

Vito sits behind the wheel of the truck.  He seems reserved,

and we get the impression that he is studying every move his

two friends are making.

INT. TENEMENT STAIRS - DAY

Clemenza runs up a flight of stairs with an armful of

dresses.  He knocks on a door, and a pretty HOUSEWIFE answers.

He holds the dresses up and the woman seems interested.  She

handles a couple of them and stands aside so Clemenza can

enter her apartment.

She holds the dresses against her body, Clemenza approving

of each one; and then she goes to her purse and takes out

five singles and gives them to him.

She holds one up, then another.  She is torn.  Clemenza

shakes his head and straightens the dress on her body.  His

hand brushes her arm; she looks at him smiling.

She smiles back.

EXT. TENEMENT BUILDING - DAY

Clemenza jumps down the stairs, and out to the middle of the

street, where Vito and Tessio are waiting in the car with

some of the stock.

Tessio and Clemenza each take more armsful of dresses and

divide the neighborhood.

The three part.  Vito drives the truck off.

MOVING VIEW

Vito drives the truck through the downtown streets; he turns

a corner and stops for a light.

Suddenly, to his left, he sees the formidable figure of

Fanucci.

He grabs young Corleone by the shoulder.

CLOSE VIEW ON FANUCCI

frightening, revealing the large circular scar, now healed.

Vito says nothing.  Fanucci thumbs through the stock.

Fanucci takes a few of the dresses.

Vito smiles at him and nods.

He takes Vito's hands and clasps them in his own.

Fanucci turns with the dresses draped over his arms, waving

to Vito.

Vito throws the truck in gear, and drives off.

CLOSE VIEW ON VITO

We know that throughout this encounter he has seethed with

an icy rage.

INT. VITO'S APARTMENT - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

He wife serves a dinner for her husband and his two friends.

They discuss Fanucci as they eat.

Clemenza doesn't even bother checking for Vito's opinion.

Tessio and Clemenza regard him suspiciously.

Clemenza, irritated, makes a large belch, and washes his

food down with wine.

Both Clemenza and Tessio are impressed with their young

friend; his willingness to risk his life on his perception

of the situation.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

A ten piece Italian street band plays in front of the church

to commemorate the first night of the Festa di San Gennaro.

People swarm in crowds, delighted by the music, as out of

the church four men carry the statue of San Gennaro down to

the street.

MOVING VIEW

Clemenza moves along the booths that have been set up along

the street: sausage cooking on an open fire; pork livers and

sweetbeards.  He stops for a sandwich, and makes an irritated

gesture when the vendor expects to be paid.  He crosses to a

church-sponsored booth with a great Wheel of Fortune, and

slaps a dollar on a number.  Standing next to him is Vito;

they embrace.

The wheel stops; they both lose.

Vito has left while Clemenza jokes with the Priest.

EXT. FESTA STREET - NIGHT

Vito passes the booths of food, crossing toward a small and

dark club.

INT. SOCIAL CLUB - NIGHT

We can still HEAR the crowds and music of the festa.  Vito

enters; the club is empty, except for the large white figure

sitting alone at a small table.  Fanucci barely acknowledges

Vito as he joins him.

Without a word, Vito counts out two hundred dollars on the

table.  Fanucci looks, then takes off his fedora and puts it

on the table over the money.

EXT. FESTA STREET - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

By now the musicians have left, but still families are

walking the street, and stopping at the booths.

Fanucci stands there a moment; he is known by everyone, and

considers himself highly loved.

Then Fanucci begins the walk through the festa, on his way

home.

EXT. ROOFTOPS - MOVING VIEW - NIGHT

Vito silently moves along the rooftop; paralleling Fanucci's

walk.

We HEAR the sounds of the festa, and every so often catch a

glimpse of the patterned lights, and the crowds below.

EXT. FESTA STREETS - MOVING VIEW ON FANUCCI - NIGHT

walking through the crowded streets.  The statue of San

Gennaro is arranged in some midnight religious ceremony.

The VIEW LIFTS UP, to the rooftops.

EXT. THE ROOFTOPS - NIGHT

Vito makes the leap that separates two buildings; then

crosses toward the large skylight in the center of the

building.

EXT. THE STREETS - NIGHT

The procession in the streets is preceded by ten altar boys;

and the glittering Monstrance, something of an altar carried

out into the streets.

The priest begins this nocturnal service, as the crowds in

the street kneel down in prayer.

INT. FANUCCI'S BUILDING - NIGHT

Fanucci unlocks the door to his building; we can HEAR the

services in the background.

EXT. THE ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Vito tries the trap door on the roof; it is stuck firmly

shut; despite Clemenza's instructions.  He struggles with

it, but no luck.

From the distance, the Choir begins to Latin.  Vito moves

around the skylight, to an identical trap, tries this one;

it opens.

EXT. THE MONSTRANCE - MED. VIEW ON THE PRIEST - NIGHT

performing the services in Latin.  The ten altar boys are in

attendance.

EXT. THE ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Vito reaches down into the trap, and pulls out the newly

oiled gun that has been left for him.  He slides down into

the building.

INT. FANUCCI'S HALLWAY - DOWN ANGLE - NIGHT

Fanucci proceeds up the staircase with loud, heavy steps.

An OLD WOMAN on one of the flights sees him, and immediately

moves to her apartment.

She quickly disappears behind her door.  Fanucci laughs,

continues up, singing to himself.  The MASS outside is

always in evidence.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Vito climbs down from the attic, and finds Fanucci's rear

door open.  He slips in, and makes his way past the open

windows, out of which pour the music and chanting of the

Mass.  Slowly and quietly he pulls them down, shut.

He moves quietly to a glass door, and peeks out.

WHAT HE SEES:

Three young women, Fanucci's DAUGHTERS, laughing and talking.

VIEW ON VITO

A slip up.  Tessio had said they were out.  He steps outside

to the alley where he can look into the apartment.

ANOTHER VIEW

Fanucci opens the door of his apartment, and enters.

CLOSE VIEW ON VITO

He begins to wrap the gun.

VIEW ON THE DAUGHTERS

Their father greets them with a kiss; and a little religious

gift he has bought for each.

CLOSE ON THE GUN

wrapped in this primitive method of a silencer.  The VIEW

TILTS to Vito, caught in the dilemma of having to kill all

or none of them.  Then something catches his eye.

WHAT HE SEES:

A small gray alley cat is attracted to the young man, comes

up to him and rubs itself against him.  Vito rubs the

animal, speaking softly in Sicilian, then, gaining its

confidence, lifts it up and carefully lets it into Fanucci's

apartment.

He steps back, holding the gun.  We HEAR some Italian

shouted in the house; a loud sound from the cat, and some of

the thumping footsteps of Fanucci.

VIEW ON VITO

holding the wrapped gun, waiting.

WHAT HE SEES:

The white blob of Fanucci opening the door and cursing in

Italian as he throws the cat out.

VIEW ON VITO

squeezing the trigger; the muffled, but still LOUD BLAST

resounding in the building.

VIEW ON FANUCCI

He holds onto the door frame, trying to stand erect, trying

to reach for his gun.  The force of his struggle has torn

the buttons off his jacket and made it swing loose.  His gun

is exposed but so is a spidery vein on the white shirtfront

of his stomach.  Carefully, as if plunging a needle into

this vein, Vito Corleone fires a second bullet.

Fanucci falls to his knees, propping the door open, giving a

terrible groan.  We begin to hear the VOICES of girls inside

the apartment.

Vito quickly opens his wallet, removes the two hundred,

quickly fires one last bullet into Fanucci's sweaty cheek.

Now the towel the gun was wrapped with catches fire,

literally on Vito's hand; quickly he throws it to the

ground, stamps it out...and disappears upward.

EXT. THE ROOFTOPS - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

Vito moves like a cat along the rooftops; we HEAR the

conclusion of the Mass down below.

CLOSE ON VITO

Pausing; we can SEE the great spectacle of lights and

candles on the streets below.

He empties the gun of bullets and smashes the barrel against

the side of the roof ledge.  He reverses it in his hand, and

breaks the butt into two separate halves against the chimney.

He smashes it again, and the pistol breaks into barrel and

handle, two separate pieces.

He then moves along the rooftop, dropping the two separate

fragments into various air shafts.

EXT. THE STREET PROCESSION - MOVING VIEW - NIGHT

The Priest, having completed the ceremony, follows as the

Monstrance is carried off through the streets, as the Choir

sings.

EXT. THE ROOFTOPS - MOVING VIEW - NIGHT

Vito is a dark figure, moving with agility across the

rooftops.

INT. FANUCCI'S VESTIBULE - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

The corpse that was Fanucci, stained with blood.

EXT. PROCESSION - CLOSE VIEW - NIGHT

The statue of San Gennaro, followed by the altar boys.

EXT. CORLEONE TENEMENT - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

Vito's wife; her baby and several friends and neighbors sit

happily on the front stoop of their tenement.  Some of the

men drink wine poured out of a pitcher; we can still HEAR

the music and night sounds of the Festa.

A neighbor is singing a Neapolitan song.

Quietly, without a word, and with only a momentary glance

from his wife, Vito joins the little group; takes a glass of

wine, and listens to the song.

CLOSE VIEW ON VITO

listening to the song.  He reaches out and takes the small

hand of his son.

INT. ANTHONY'S TAHOE ROOM - NIGHT

The room is large, lit from the outside by a bright evening.

We can see the outline of many toys on the shelves built

along the wall.  We see the dark figure of Michael Corleone

enter the room and approach the bed where his son Anthony

lies curled in messy blankets.  Michael quietly arranges his

small hands and feet and covers the little boy.  Suddenly,

Anthony turns, his eyes open.  He is staring, perfectly

awake, at his father.

No answer.

He kisses his boy, and then turns.

Michael kisses him again.

INT. MICHAEL-KAY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The room is lit from a small night lamp on Michael's side of

the large bed.

Kay is huddled in blankets, asleep.  Michael closes the door

to his room, moves to his side of the bed, and glances down

to the pillow.

VIEW ON THE PILLOW

is a child's drawing of a long limousine, with a man in a

hat sitting in the back seat.

An arrow pointing to him is marked "DAD." Under it, a nine

year old's handwriting says: "Do you like it?  Check YES __

I liked it or NO __ I didn't like it." Michael turns,

looking for a pencil, and moves to the dresser, where he

places a check next to "YES."

He starts to cross back toward his side of the bed, when Kay

turns, almost in her sleep:

His eyes dart back to the curved, beautifully leaded windows

of the room.  The DRAPES are opened.  Then, without a

second's hesitation, he leaps to the floor, still holding

his son's drawing, as a spray of machine gun bullets sweep

across the windows; glass shattering all over the room.

Kay screams out; rising, still half-asleep.  Michael crawls

toward her, and pulls her down to the floor to him.

Then, for a moment, there is silence, soon filled by the

shouts of men; as flashes of light sweep by the window, as

guards with flashlights come running.

Michael holds Kay to him, knowing they have both survived,

and then gently:

EXT. THE TAHOE ESTATE - NIGHT

Suddenly, the great floodlights are turned on, bathing lawns

in an intense blue light.

Groups of ordinarily dressed security men drawn in from all

directions; a state of confusion prevails.  There is no sign

of the attackers.

VIEW BY MICHAEL'S HOUSE

Michael is joined by Rocco Lampone, his gun drawn.

Six men take up posts by Michael's house.

He returns inside.

EXT. MAIN GATE AND KENNELS - NIGHT

The character of the summer estate has changed: bright

floodlights illuminate the main points of entry: the main

gate; the waterway; the stone wall that encompasses the

estate on all sides.

Several men with flashlights reinforce the guard at the main

gate.

FULL VIEW

Off in the distance, we see another group of men with

flashlights combing the waterline.  We hear indistinguishable

shouts.

VIEW ON THE KENNELS

The wire gates are opened, and the trained dogs go out

yelping into the outer edge of the estate.

ROOFTOP

One of Rocco's men turns the large floodlight scanning

darkened forest areas, where men could hide.

MOVING VIEW

Men with flashlights and dogs.  Moving through the dark areas.

LOOSE VIEW

A small Corleone launch, with a bright spotlight slowly

cruises the boundaries of the estate.  We SEE the silhouette

of men with guns, quietly waiting and watching.

EXT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Some of the bodyguards by the shattered windows of Michael's

bedroom.

The curtains are drawn from inside.

INT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Kay, the children, and some women servants have come down

from the various rooms into the central living area, that

can be most easily secured.  The little girl is still

asleep; they make you think of an immigrant family, with

their blankets and frightened faces, all waiting in a

central room.

Michael goes up to Kay, squeezes her hand, and whispers:

She says nothing; but her face expresses the anger she feels

over the jeopardy Michael has placed his children in.  She

holds her young daughter in her arms.

The door opens, and Rocco enters.  He quickly realizes he is

holding his gun in plain view in front of the family, and

puts it away.  Michael moves to him, and they talk a distance

away from Kay.

We HEAR loud shouting from outside.

MICHAEL'S VIEW

Through the door, that Rocco opens.

Deanna, in her nightgown, has been frightened by the

gunshots; while Fredo in his bathrobe, tries to get her back

into the house.

The bodyguards, gracefully help Fredo bring the hysterical

Deanna into the safety of the house.

EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - HIGH ANGLE - NIGHT

Michael walks the short distance from his house, to the

boathouse where he conducts his business away from his family.

A small group of bodyguards, carrying machine guns, make the

walk with him from all sides, a respectful distance away.

It gives the appearance of a lonely President moving in his

compound, followed by teams of Secret Service men.

The boathouse is already secured by teams of men, hastily

wakened from their lodge house; a barracks-like structure

where reinforcements are lodged just for this kind of

emergency.

FULL VIEW

In the distance, we can see the teams of men and dogs, with

their lights, guns and shouts, combing every inch of the

estate.

INT. THE BOATHOUSE - EMPTY VIEW - NIGHT

Michael alone in the great room.  He moves to a walk-in

safe, quickly runs through the combination, and opens it.

He takes out an envelope, and puts it into his pocket;

there's a KNOCK on the door, and Hagen enters.  He had been

asleep, and has quickly thrown on a robe.

EXT. TAHOE BOATHOUSE - NIGHT

From outside the leaded windows, a disoriented Hagen sits

down; Michael starts to talk to him; obviously about

something very serious.

The patrol securing the boathouse, walk past the window.

Michael says something to Tom, who rises, and pulls the

drapes, obscuring OUR VIEW.

INT. TAHOE BOATHOUSE - NIGHT

Michael talks intimately to Tom.

Hagen in very moved.

VIEW ON HAGEN

A man who has steadily declined over the last five years,

realizing that total power and responsibility is being

placed on him.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

taking out the envelope.

There is a KNOCK on the door.

The door opens; it is Rocco; Michael rises, after making a

knowing glance toward Tom, and moves to talk quietly to a

frightened and agitated Rocco.

EXT. STONE WALL AND STREAM - MOVING VIEW - NIGHT

A group of men with flashlights and guns lead Michael, Tom

and Rocco to the stone bridge spanning the stream which runs

through the estate.

LOW CLOSE VIEW

Michael's dispassionate face, looking down.  THE VIEW MOVES

to Hagen's, and then down to the murky water under the

bridge, where we see the bodies of three strangers, lying in

the moving water; machine-type guns nearby, with their

throats cut.  Light from the many flashlights illuminates

the grotesque scene.

Several of the men wade down into the stream; Rocco helps,

and even Tom steps down to get a better look at who they

were.  They are total strangers; Rocco examines the type of

guns they used.

When they climb back onto the ground, Michael is gone.

Everyone notices it, but no one says anything.

Hagen stands there, holding the envelope Michael had given

him in his hand.

He realizes that now, he is the DON.

The men respond; Hagen makes the lonely walk back to the

lighted section of the compound, which now resembles a

prison camp.

FADE IN:

INT. STATE SENATE FLOOR - DAY

The Senate is in session; Senator Geary is on the floor

during a vote.  An aide approaches him, with a slip of paper.

INT. GEARY'S OFFICE - DAY

The Senator steps behind his desk.

He flicks the switch of a small tape recorder.

The Senator immediately shuts the tape recorder off.

Hagen leans forward, and deposits a handful of paper on the

Senator's desk.

Geary quickly looks through the paid markers.

EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - FULL VIEW - DAY

There are more men on duty than usual; not that there are

guns apparent, but it's clear that the boundaries are being

patrolled.

VIEW BY MICHAEL'S HOUSE

Kay exits her house, followed by her children; she helps

them into her station wagon like any housewife, and drives

along the path leading to the main gate.

She's about to drive through, when one of the men steps in

front of her, raising his hand.

We notice Hagen walking to them in the background.

VIEW THROUGH THE GATE

Hagen approaches the car; Kay gets out so they can talk away

from the children.

He walks with her a little way from the others; the children

run out of the station wagon, and start to play.

Angrily, without another word, Kay turns away from him, and

walks to her children, ignoring the running station wagon.

EXT. ITALIAN LUXURY LINER - DAY

The luxury liner making its way across the Atlantic.

INT. ITALIAN LUXURY LINER - MED. VIEW - DAY

The PURSER followed by several white uniformed associates

knocks on the door of something designated the "Leonardo

Suite." He is holding a telegram.

The door opens, and a tanned Merle peeks out of the door.

This entourage enters the suite, an impressive and

beautifully spacious luxury suite.  Connie is relaxing.

And with that, the men in white begin to pack Connie and

Merle's luggage.

INT. ITALIAN LUXURY LINER - TINY THIRD CLASS CABIN - NIGHT

Connie and Merle are attempting to sleep in the miniature

cabin in bunk beds.  The little space is crowded with their

trunks and luggage.  Merle can barely hang onto the bunk,

the boat pitches so violently below.

EXT. TRAIN TRACKS - MED. VIEW - DAY

A train speeds across the countryside.

INT. THE TRAIN - DAY

Inside the corridor, a porter advances, and knocks on the

door of a stateroom.  A voice tells him to enter.  OUR VIEW

enters with him as he carries a tray of lunch.  From this

POV we see Michael Corleone sitting in the compartment.

The porter does so; as he places the tray down, he catches a

glimpse of a second person in the compartment with Michael.

HIS VIEW

A very fierce, almost maniacal looking man, BUSSETTA.  He

nods that the porter should leave.

The porter takes his advice and leaves quickly, closing the

door behind him.

VIEW THROUGH THE WINDOW

Michael and his mysterious companion have lunch together on

the moving train.

EXT. GULFSTREAM RACE TRACK IN MIAMI - HIGH FULL VIEW - DAY

The empty parking lot of the Gulfstream track, on an off-

race day.

CLOSER VIEW

Michael sits behind the wheel of a nondescript late model

car.  Bussetta sits in the rear.

Another car swings into the lot.  Michael starts his car,

and pulls out of the lot; the second car following.

NEW VIEW

This car pulls out and begins to follow them.  Michael

glances back by adjusting the rear view mirror, and nods to

Bussetta.

Michael's car begins to slow down, allowing the other car to

overtake them.

The overtaking car hesitates a moment, moving side by side

with them.

Michael glances toward the driver.

MICHAEL'S VIEW

We recognize Johnny Ola, who waves a greeting to Michael,

and then continues on to lead him.

EXT. SUBURBAN MIAMI NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Ola's car leads Michael's through a middle-class suburban

area of $30,000 to $40,000 homes.  There are small channels

with sporting and fishing boats parked near the houses.

Ola's car pulls up in front of a very simple, tract-type

home.  Michael's car parks nearby.

Ola has gotten out of his car and walks up the little path

to the front door.  Michael waits.

Ola rings the bell, and after a moment, a rather pretty,

middle-aged WOMAN answers, remaining behind the screen door.

Ola says a few things to her and she disappears, leaving the

door open.

Ola comes down the steps, looks at Michael, nodding to him.

Ola then gets into his car and drives off.  Michael walks up

the walkway and enters the little house, closing the door

behind him.

This woman, TERRI ROTH, is in the kitchen, looking out at

Michael.

She hurries halfway up the staircase.

He continues upstairs; she goes into the kitchen.

Michael continues up to a small den on the second floor; we

can HEAR the sound of a baseball game coming over the

television.

INT. HYMAN ROTH'S DEN - DAY

Michael enters the den: it's very comfortable, but somewhat

like a senior citizen's retirement home in Florida.

MICHAEL'S VIEW

There, sitting before the television is a small man in his

middle sixties, thin, with a wizened face, looking like a

small-time retired Jewish businessman.  This is HYMAN ROTH.

The old man touches Michael's hand, warmly.

He turns to Michael, turning the volume higher on the

television, and moving closer to his young partner.

There is a KNOCK on the door, and Terri Roth pushes the door

open with her hip.

She puts the tray down, and turns down the television.

EXT. ROTH'S HOUSE - MED. VIEW - DAY

The sinister Bussetta waits patiently in the rear seat of

the car, outside Roth's modest house.

EXT. DOWNTOWN NEW YORK - MOVING VIEW - DAY

A black Cadillac moves down the street, slowed by the

Festivities of the Festa that is in progress: people milling

around, buying souvenirs at the many stands set up.

Sausage and grilled meats are prepared, just as they were

years ago.  Electric lights are strung from the street

lamps, and brightly colored banners pronounce the "Festa of

the Madonna."

MOVING CLOSE VIEW

Willy Cicci drives, frustrated that he cannot go any faster.

Next to him, Frankie Pentangeli sits, catching a few seconds'

snooze.

MED. VIEW

The black car pulls up; another car that had been following

it parks nearby.

One of Pentangeli's button men gets out of the car, and

steps into a small Italian restaurant; he exits quickly, and

nods affirmatively toward Pentangeli's Cadillac.

The group of them step out quickly, men huddled around

Pentangeli, and enter the restaurant.

INT. THE RESTAURANT - DAY

The restaurant is quite empty, despite the excitement out on

the street.

Pentangeli immediately sits at a table with a tall, dark,

snappily dressed young man, CARMINE ROSATO.

Nearby, on the other side of the room is Rosato's brother,

TONY, seated with a group of their men.

At another table in the restaurant is a table of Pentangeli's

people: they are joined by bodyguards.

Pentangeli glances behind himself.

One of Pentangeli's men approaches with a plate of Italian

food.

Pentangeli stands up, angered by this remark of Rosato's; he

pushes the dish of food out of the surprised Bodyguard's

hands.

Pentangeli walks out of the restaurant; there's a little

tension between the bodyguards of the two factions.

He gives him the arm.

Frankie's face turns red, like he wants to have it out here

and now; but Willy Cicci calms his down, and they all make

their move out.

EXT. THE RESTAURANT - DAY

Pentangeli gets into the car.

He slams the door.

EXT. PENTANGELI'S LONG BEACH ESTATE - DAY

Part of the old estate of Don Corleone.  By now, the wall

has been torn down, and the other houses sold off.

His car is parked; Pentangeli steps out, still angry over

the confrontation.  As he approaches the house, he notices

something strained about the bodyguards who discreetly guard

his house.  No one seems to want to tell him.

Pentangeli glances over to the front door foyer.

PENTANGELI'S VIEW

The strange and silent Bussetta, the man who now always

travels with Michael.

INT. PENTANGELI'S HOUSE - DAY

Pentangeli enters; he sees his WIFE, standing oddly in the

hallway.

He knows it is very very serious for Michael to be here in

his home.

He automatically moves into his study.

INT. PENTANGELI'S STUDY - DAY

Michael stands quietly in the room.  This was once his

father's study, although it is totally redecorated.

Pentangeli starts sweating, and moves toward the young Don,

and kisses his hand.

He's terrified Pentangeli with his anger; then, just as

suddenly, he talks quietly, calmly.

They embrace; Michael kisses him.  He looks at the young

Don, thoughtfully.

INT. TROPICANA HOTEL - CLOSE VIEW - DAY

The money trays are carefully unloaded from the gaming

tables, and put on a cart with others.

The cart, preceded and followed by security guards, is then

wheeled through the casino, into a private, counting room.

INT. COUNTING ROOM - MED. VIEW - DAY

The guards leave the room; the door is locked after them,

leaving only Hagen.  Neri and an ACCOUNTANT, a very fat man.

The numbered boxes are opened, and cash and checks are

spread out on the counting table.

The accountant begins with amazing speed and skill, to count

and divide the money.

The accountant stops, and looks up to Neri.

Neri nods, and the accountant continues.  Neri opens a door,

allowing a sandy-haired man, a COURIER, into the room.  The

cream is placed into his pouch personally by Neri.

Neri has finished putting the 'creamed' money into the pouch.

He is just about to close and lock the pouch, when Hagen

gestures that he should wait, and adds more stacks of

carefully packaged bills into the pouch.  Then Neri locks

it, and handcuffs it to the courier's arm, looking

inquiringly at Hagen.

The courier is shown out through a private door, and then

the first door is opened.  Two accountants come in with the

guards, and the trays are opened, and the counting process

is begun all over again, this time with the State Tally

sheets.

INT. TROPICANA CORRIDOR - MOVING VIEW - DAY

The courier continues on his way; followed by Hagen and Neri.

This hurts Tom; but he is a reasonable man, and he knows he

owes Neri some explanation.

EXT. KEY WEST - NIGHT

Michael is led to a desolate, night-lit private dock.  He is

followed by the ever-present Bussetta, and they are helped

onto a light-weight, luxury cabin cruiser.  The crew cast

off various ropes, and the boat sets out into the night.

FADE IN:

EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - DAY

A seaplane lands nicely by the private Corleone harbor;

Hagen disembarks with his inevitable overloaded briefcase.

He continues down the ramp, past several Buttonmen, dressed

in summer casual attire, and who resemble secret service men

rather than thugs.

His wife THERESA lies on a blanket on the great lawn, with

her youngest children, who run to their father for a kiss.

EXT. TAHOE LAWN BARBECUE - MED. VIEW - DAY

Hagen and Sonny's boys are throwing a football around on the

lawn; the littler kids running after them.

Coals are burning in the old style stone barbecue, and

several tables are set for the family.

In the distance, there is always evidence of the bodyguards.

Theresa, Mama and Sandra prepare the steaks.

Hagen relaxes in a sports shirt.

He crosses the lawn, to the house on the beach where Michael

and his family live.  Is about to knock on the door:

The football is flying in his direction; he catches it and

throws it back.  Then he cracks the door open, and peeks in.

INT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - DAY

He steps in, the beautiful summer living room is neat, but

empty.

He moves through the house more quickly; into the dining and

recreation room areas.  A cat jumps off a pile of cushions

and runs across the room.

Sandra has followed him into Michael's house.

Hagen rushes out of the house.

EXT. TAHOE LAWN - DAY

Hagen moves quickly out of Michael's house; moving across

the lawn to the boathouse.

This time he ignores the thrown ball, and moves directly to

Rocco, who is by some men near the boathouse.

INT. THE BOATHOUSE - DAY

They enter the boathouse.

The man hurries behind the bar.

He swallows the drink down in several gulps.  And then looks

up to his men watching him.  He's embarrassed to have shown

such weakness.

Rocco clears the men out.

Rocco gone, Hagen moves behind the enormous bar, and pours

himself a giant drink.  He drinks that, and calms himself.

EXT. VIEW FROM BOAT - FULL VIEW - DAY

A beautiful coastal view of a tropical Caribbean city.  An

extraordinary view, high buildings, palm trees, all set

right on the bay.

MED. CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL

on the cruiser, Bussetta a little distance away, watching,

but never speaking.  The dark-skinned CAPTAIN of the cruiser

keeps pointing repeatedly.

EXT. HAVANA STREET - MOVING VIEW - DAY

Michael and Bussetta are driven in a Mercury sedan, making

its way through the streets of Havana.

CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL

looking out the window.

MICHAEL'S POV

Crowded streets, occasional roving bands playing for the

tourists; there is much evidence of tourism: Americans

walking through the streets with cameras.  Occasionally, we

see a Cuban with a row of numbers attached to his hat,

carrying a big sheet of the daily lottery numbers.  From all

of these street impressions, the city is booming with

activity, but there is also much evidence of whores and

pimps and little children begging in the streets.

MED. VIEW

The big American car stops at an intersection.  Bussetta is

sitting in the forward passenger side; while Michael is in

the back.  He hears tapping on the window; he turns and sees

four Cuban boys tapping on his window and extending their

hands, and rubbing their stomachs as though they were hungry.

The Cuban driver rolls down his window and shouts them away

in Spanish.

INT. HAVANA CASINO LOBBY - MOVING VIEW - NIGHT

Michael is led through a beautiful wooden lobby of the

hotel, done in Spanish style, apparently just recently

completed.  He is approached by a thin, mousy man, SAM ROTH,

who ushers him toward the casino entrance.

He leads Michael into the main casino.

Sam turns to Bussetta and extends his glad-hand.

He gets no response whatsoever from Bussetta.

INT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - NIGHT

An extremely tall, well-built Cuban, tanned and wearing an

attractive mustache, LEON, in his middle forties, reads from

a prepared paper.  His sentences are translated by a smaller

man, standing to his rear.

THE VIEW BEGINS TO MOVE along the various men gathered for

this meeting.

VIEW ON THE ENTIRE GROUP

Leon pauses to take a drink of water.  Then proudly, he

lifts a shiny yellow telephone for all to see.

He hands the heavy phone set to one of his aides, and it is

passed in turn to each of the men in attendance.

MED. CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL

He receives the telephone, and glances at it before passing

it on to Hyman Roth.

Michael passes the phone on to Roth.

General subdued laughter.

A CUBAN STREET - LATE DAY

Police are stopping traffic.  Michael's Mercury is among the

cars; a police officer, seeing that some important person is

being driven, walks up to the driver.  He leans forward, and

says something in Spanish to the driver.

The driver, in turn, leans over to Michael.

Michael looks out the window.

MICHAEL'S VIEW

The old building has been totally surrounded by police and

military vehicles.  Right at this moment, they are waiting

lazily, but soldiers are there with automatic weapons ready.

There is a momentary commotion inside the building, and the

men brace up.  A Captain of the Army detachment says

something in Spanish over a megaphone; and his men put their

weapons at the ready, as other policemen lead a group of

civilians out of the building with their hands up.

They are moved over to some military truck, where they are

frisked before being loaded.

All of a sudden, one of the civilian rebels breaks loose,

and rushes toward the command vehicle.  He hurls himself

into the vehicle, as two police try to pull him out.  A

second later, and there is an explosion; the man obviously

having hidden a grenade on his body, sacrificing his own

life to take the life of the Captain.

There is a commotion, but the military quickly quell it.

CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL

watching.  The police rush to Michael's car and guide it

outside of the trouble area.

MED. VIEW

as they lead and escort the Mercury out of the area.

EXT. HAVANA COUNTRY CLUB - CLOSE VIEW - DAY

Some glasses; rum is poured into them; then Coca Cola.

Quarter limes are squeezed.

Sam prepares the drinks for his brother, Hyman, and a group

of men, including Michael.

A moment's hesitation, then a few of the men laugh.  Now two

Cubans in white carry a table which has a lovely small cake

on it.

They all raise their glasses to the old man.

Roth glances at the cake and its inscription, is pleased.

Some laugh.  He nods, and they begin to cut it, put a piece

on plates, and carry them to the different men.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

is handed a piece of cake.  Roth moves over to a folder of

documents.

MED. VIEW

The cake is sliced and carried to each of the men.

And seeing that all of his friends have been served, Roth

raises his fork.

The various men look up as Michael eats his cake, wondering

what the point of it is.

VIEW ON ROTH

He understands Michael's point, if the others do not.

And he returns his attention to the men who are gathered

with him on his birthday.

EXT. ROTH'S PRIVATE TERRACE - DAY

Michael sits alone with the old man, on a terrace that

overlooks the city.

He laughs slyly, as though this is some private joke between

them.  Then his laughter becomes a cough, which he painfully

stifles with a handkerchief.

INT. MICHAEL'S SUITE - NIGHT

The telephone has just rung; Michael listens.

Michael is openly disturbed that Hagen is not there.  He

hangs up without answering.

EXT. NEW ENGLAND HOUSE - DAY

Tom Hagen steps out of a taxicab a bit tentatively, and then

steps toward the door of a pleasant New England house.  He

rings the bell and waits, hat in hand.  A moment later, the

door opens, and Kay is standing there.

INT. SMALL ROOM - NEW ENGLAND HOUSE - MED. VIEW - DAY

Out to the yard, where we can see glimpses of little Anthony

playing by himself.

The little boy, moodily by himself.

VIEW ON KAY

obviously moved.

VIEW ON HAGEN

listening, calmly.

VIEW ON KAY

There is a long silence.

Then Hagen shakes his head; he can tell her no more.

He looks at her; it's clear that he has been entrusted with

her safety and her children's.

He is a kind, good man, and seems very nervous and

overwrought.

VIEW ON THE WINDOW

Little Anthony is pressing his face against the glass pane,

as though he senses the adults are discussing something of

importance to him.

INT. TROPICANA HOTEL-CASINO - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

The Baccarat table.  Busy, hundred dollar bills being played.

VIEW ON THE CRAP TABLES

The play is fast; pit boss presiding; but no sign of Fredo.

ANOTHER PART OF THE CASINO

We see Neri, ominous, presiding over the entire store.  He

picks up a pit telephone.

INT. TROPICANA BACKSTAGE AREA - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

Fredo is entertaining two showgirls done up in feathers and

what-have-you.

He takes the phone; we can catch a VIEW of the show going on

from the wings.

He hangs up thoughtfully.

EXT. NEW YORK BAR - DAY

There is a light rain.  Pentangeli steps out of his car;

points to Willy Cicci.

He walks up the street, to the bar, where he is greeted by

the tall, handsome Carmine Rosato.  They shake hands.

Pentangeli looks in his hand.

CLOSE VIEW

Rosato has put a crisp one hundred dollar bill in his hand,

folded sharply in two.

He puts his arm around Pentangeli, and they walk into the bar.

INT. THE BAR - DAY

The bar is fairly empty; and very dark.  Pentangeli and

Rosato step up to the bar; the bartender momentarily stops

polishing glasses to pour a couple of drinks.

He holds up the glass.

Suddenly, a garrote is thrown around Pentangeli's throat;

and he is forcefully yanked back into the shadows, all the

way into a wooden telephone booth.

CLOSE VIEW

The folded hundred dollar bill resting on the bar.

MED. CLOSE - THE PHONE BOOTH

We see only Pentangeli's feet and legs, struggling.  We HEAR

the terrible sounds of a man being strangled.

CLOSE ON ROSATO

Calm, and then he sees something that disturbs him.

Suddenly, the side door opens, and a shaft of sunlight cuts

through the darkness.

CLOSE ON THE PHONE BOOTH

Pentangeli's feet stop moving.

Two figures race through the shadows and race through the

doors.

EXT. THE BAR - DAY

We see that a patrol car had stopped for its routine visit.

STUTZ, the second patrolman, is just stepping out of his

car; Pentangeli's bodyguard, seeing the commotion, leaps out.

Three men, including Rosato, rush out.  There is gunfire;

Cicci is wounded.

MED. CLOSE

The patrolmen is grazed across the face; trying to stop the

flow of blood with his hand.

NEW VIEW

The three assailants jump into the car and drive off.

INT. THE BAR - DAY

The stricken Pentangeli comes back to life.  He can barely

move his lips.

He sees the patrolman leaning over him.

EXT. PATROL CAR - DAY

The Sergeant is on the car radio.

INT. ROTH'S SUITE IN HAVANA - MED. CLOSE VIEW ON ROTH - DAY

His wizened face, pale.  Right now, though, his eyes have a

sparkle as he watches three million dollars in cold cash

being counted on a card table in front of him.

His brother Sam is present, and the sandy-haired Courier, a

little nervous; the one who had left from the Tropicana with

the Corleone skim-money.  Also Johnny Ola.  The money is

evidently all there; Roth picks up a packet; probably a

hundred thousand dollars, and throws it over to the Courier.

Ola leads the Courier to the adjoining room where two

smartly dressed Military (Cuban) Police are standing, and a

civilian.  The Courier sees them, looks back to Ola.  One of

the police steps forward, placing the Courier under arrest;

handcuffing him.

The other takes the packet of money, and hands it to the

civilian, who places it in the briefcase he carries.  The

other officer kneels down and fastens leg manacles.

The Captain strikes him expertly across the side of his head

with his pistol.

Ola closes the door on this scene.

EXT. THE HAVANA CAPRI - DAY

Fredo Corleone steps out of a car, squints up at the sunshine

and palm trees.  He is holding on tightly to a small satchel,

which he won't let the bellman carry along with his other

things.

INT. MICHAEL'S SUITE - MED. CLOSE VIEW - DAY

Michael and Fredo in a brother's embrace; they kiss each

other.  Fredo is still in his jacket, holding the satchel.

He glances up at Bussetta, who doesn't say a word.  Fredo

extends his hand.

Then Bussetta offers his hand back to Fredo.

He undoes the combination of the briefcase starts taking out

cash.  Then he stops, remembering that there's a stranger in

the room.

INT. ROTH'S SUITE - MED. VIEW - DAY

Michael stands at Roth's door carrying the briefcase that

Fredo had brought.

A hotel DOCTOR takes Hyman Roth's blood pressure, while his

wife waits nervously.

The doctor is shown out.  Roth gestures to the hotel man,

who also leaves.  Then he looks to his wife.

They kiss, and she leaves.  Also Bussetta and Ola remain.

Ola locks the door; Michael nods, and opens the bag, spilling

its contents on the card table.

Roth looks patiently at Michael, as though he were a child

who hadn't minded the lesson that he had been taught over

and over again.

Roth glances to Ola; he is not a fool; he realizes Michael

has begun to suspect him.

He regards Michael silently a moment.

The old man turns, and moves in his slippers, toward his

bedroom.

INT. THE CORRIDOR - DAY

Michael closes the door, and moves down the hallway.  He is

followed by Bussetta, who had waited in the corridor.

INT. TROPICOR NIGHT CLUB - VIEW ON THE SHOW - NIGHT

A Havana extravaganza, with tall, beautiful showgirls done

up in flamboyant, 'South-of-the-Border' Carmen Miranda

costumes; the lead singer is a six foot blonde doing "Rum

and Coca Cola" in that style.  Her name is YOLANDA.

MED. VIEW

At a large round table, located in an obvious VIP section of

the high, tropically draped room with living ferns and other

tropical planting with artificial stars.

Michael rises, to be introduced by Fredo to some conservative

looking Senatorial types, including Senator Pat Geary of

Nevada.  We notice Bussetta standing nearby.

Geary warmly shakes Michael's hand.

They all make themselves comfortable.  A waiter with a tray

of drinks appears.

Laughter.

The various tropical drinks are distributed.

They all join in.

INT. THE CASINO - NIGHT

By now the group has made its way into the casino.  Some of

them are crowded around the crap table; Senator Geary is

with the enormous and beautiful Yolanda, who barely speaks

English.  There are other girls with some of the men; not

with Michael, who gambles dollars while talking to Corngold.

Johnny Ola approaches Michael.

Michael follows Ola toward the Baccarat table; a watchful

Bussetta moves, a distance away, with them.

We can see Senator Ream at the table, making thousand dollar

bets on the Bank.

Fredo puts his arm around his brother; he is high with the

first attention Mike has ever given him, as though finally

he is being taken seriously; as though his brother needs him.

INT. HAVANA BAR - NIGHT

Our group are in a large Havana bar; the walls totally

covered with hundreds of fifths of different types of rum

and other liquor.

A couple of the girls from the show are out with the men;

Yolanda herself is giving them a private song and dance.

Fredo is a little loaded, and especially attentive to

Michael this night.

CLOSE ON MICHAEL

A growing feeling about his brother.

EXT. GARISH HAVANA STREET - NIGHT

The street is lit with tons of neon signs; it is alive with

people; some roving bands of musicians.  Everywhere are

little boys running around, begging for money.  And in

doorways and windows are silent, dark-skinned women.

INT. 'SUPERMAN SHOW' - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

A large room with a succession of platforms arranged step-

like around a circular area which becomes a stage.

There are a hundred or so people, practically all men,

tourists and business men, standing on the different levels,

forming the audience.

In the center of the stage is a thick, telephone type pole,

to which is tied a young Cuban girl, in a flimsy white

sacrificial slip.  A small band, mostly drummers, play some

Latin music.

MED. VIEW

Fredo's party standing on the ramp, looking down at the

spectacle.  They're a little woozy from the drinks and late

hour.  Michael is with them, but now we sense he is using

this time, with all exhausted and drunk, to come to some

important conclusions.

VIEW ON THE ARENA

Now two high priestesses, scantily clad, bring in a tall and

muscular Cuban, done up in chains and loin cloth, as though

he were a captured slave.  This is SUPERMAN

VIEW ACROSS THE MEN TO THE STAGE

Some preliminary pornographic proceedings go on, as the

priestesses lead the slave to the virgin tied to the post.

The music is percussive and wild.

MED. VIEW ON THE MEN

CLOSE on Michael turning away.  Not because of the spectacle

which he finds disgusting, but at what his brother is saying.

If Michael would ever allow himself to cry, it would be now.

FADE IN:

INT. MICHAEL'S SUITE - MED. VIEW - MORNING

Michael is alone in his bedroom; it seems as though he

hasn't slept very much, but sits by his window, looking out

at the city.  He is troubled and tired.

His radio is on:

EXT. CUBAN STREET - MORNING

This street in Havana is like a Caribbean tourist city with

no indication of the revolution in progress.

Michael walks along the street, alone, past the Cubans on

their way to work; past the American ladies who have gotten

up early for their shopping spree.

One full block away, Bussetta rides in the front seat of the

dark Mercury, driving slowly, giving Michael his privacy,

but never letting him out of Bussetta's sight.

CLOSE ON MICHAEL

watching.

MICHAEL'S VIEW

Shopkeepers happily luring the tourists into their shops in

broken English.  Havana is prosperous.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

glances back to the dark car following him.  In a moment, it

pulls up to him, and he gets into the back seat.

EXT. AMERICAN MILITARY MISSION - VIEW ON MICHAEL - DAY

standing by his car, looking through the cyclone fencing

that borders this military training camp operated by the

American Army near the city.

CLOSER VIEW INTO THE CAMP

EXT. HAVANA STREET - DAY

A street singer, followed by a guitarist sings Jose Marti's

words of "Guantanamera." It is solemn, as though it is a

song of protest, a song of the revolution.

Nearby, in a restaurant, Michael has lunch with Fredo.

Michael turns, distracted for a moment at something the

singer has sung.

Fredo realizes what he means; looks immediately to Bussetta,

who had been sitting near the door and the musicians.  He is

gone.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - MOVING VIEW ON BUSSETTA - NIGHT

The first time ever away from Michael, moving toward us

quickly.  He stops, knocks on the door of Roth's suite.

Then quickly for a man his size, he moves without noise to

the adjoining door, opens it with a key, and disappears

inside.

A moment elapses on the empty corridor, and then a roused

Johnny Ola, opens the first door.  He steps out into the

corridor, to see who had knocked.  Confused, he is about to

return inside, when Bussetta easily breaks his neck in two

from behind.

INT. THE SUITE - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

as Bussetta quietly pulls the limp body of Johnny Ola, his

head bent at an impossible angle, and lays it at the foot of

the couch.

EXT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - NIGHT

Guards who are regular troops patrol the Palace in twos,

carrying machine weapons.

Now an elite officer, checks the identification of the

various cars carrying dignitaries, as they are driven up to

the Palace.  The one being inspected at the moment contains

Fredo and Michael.  We can see the beautifully dressed

people on their way to the reception, and sense the cheerful

mood of this New Year's Eve.

INT. THE SUITE - NIGHT

Bussetta bends over Ola's body, tying the wrists and knees

with electrical extensions.  He then easily carries the body

to the small balcony which all the rooms have.

EXT. THE BALCONY - NIGHT

Bussetta swings the body over the side of the balcony

railing; tying the extension cord to the railing, and

suspending the body so that it is invisible both from the

inside and out during the night.

INT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - VIEW ON THE MAIN FOYER - NIGHT

The PRESIDENT, his WIFE and six oldest CHILDREN great

formally the many beautifully and affluently dressed guests.

He speaks to them in Spanish, as one by one they file to him.

Michael and Fredo are presented in a group with several

other Americans, including several of the American

businessmen with interests in Cuba.

EXT. STREETS OF HAVANA - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

The excitement of the night is beginning to build; people

are out in the streets; poor people, but they are

enthusiastic and lively.

NEW VIEW

Traffic stops, as an ambulance speeds its way to a hospital;

SIREN going.

INT. THE SUITE - NIGHT

Bussetta delicately picks up a small satin cushion that had

fallen from the couch, and replaces it as though nothing had

happened.  Slowly he cracks the door open which adjoins

Roth's bedroom.  There is a slight commotion; whispered

voices.

BUSSETTA'S VIEW

Terri, Mrs. Roth, is crying.  A group of men lift Hyman

Roth's frail body onto a stretcher.

CLOSE ON BUSSETTA

realizes that this is the man he is to kill.

CLOSER VIEW ON ROTH

He is alive; breathing hard with his mouth dry and open.

The doctor examines him, and then gives instructions to the

orderly who carries him out, presumably to the ambulance.

Bussetta closes the door on this VIEW.

INT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - NIGHT

An orchestra plays for the guests, as an army of waiters

serve champagne and hors d'oeuvres.  Michael relaxes with

Senator Geary, Major Leon, and several of the Americans.

Michael glances at his watch; Fredo concentrates on this.

EXT. HAVANA HOSPITAL - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

The ambulance makes its way up to the emergency section of

the hospital.  The orderlies quickly carry the old man

inside.  His wife and the doctor, and several of his men,

follow in another car.

THE VIEW ALTERS

and we see Bussetta waiting in the shadows.

EXT. HAVANA STREETS - NIGHT

The growing crowds of Cubans begin their celebration.

NEW VIEW

A Cuban military detachment speeds along in the night,

motorcyclists clear a path through the celebrants.

INT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - FULL VIEW - NIGHT

A full sitdown dinner is being served the guests.  Michael

sits at a table at dinner with several of the distinguished

Cubans, and some of the American businessmen.

Fredo looks up at Michael.

In the back of the room, we notice the detachment of military

moving quickly through the reception room on their way to

the President's private quarters.  Michael notices it as well.

INT. THE HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - FULL VIEW - NIGHT

The activity at the end of the hall has come to rest; we can

tell that the doctor tells Mrs. Roth that she should go, the

old man will be taken to a room where he can rest.

Gradually, these people leave him in the care of the hospital

staff.

Bussetta watches from the distance of the hallway; after the

old man has been moved, he quietly walks down the hallway to

the room.

HIS VIEW

A nurse sits in the room in attendance; Hyman Roth is

asleep, his mouth wide open, breathing noisily.

VIEW ON BUSSETTA

hears footsteps, quickly steps away from the door, and into

another room.

Some nurses and attendants speak to the nurse in the room in

Spanish; one has brought a small bottle of wine, and

obviously they are inviting the nurse to have a New Year's

toast with them.  They laugh; and the nurse steps away from

the room for a moment.

Bussetta moves slowly back into the room, alone with the

helpless Roth.

INT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - FULL VIEW ON THE GUESTS - NIGHT

seeing in the New Year; a great banner is hoisted up in

Spanish, welcoming 1959.

Hands are shaken; kisses exchanged.

MED. CLOSE VIEW

Michael and Fredo in an embrace; they kiss one another.

He kisses his brother once again.

Slowly, understanding, Fredo backs away from his brother,

taking the kiss another way.

A little distance away, Major Leon notices an old woman, one

of the President's maids, moving across the alcove, carrying

her suitcases.

EXT. HAVANA STREETS - NIGHT

The gathered crowd joyously welcomes the New Year.  We

notice the continual military movement.

MED. VIEW

A family surreptitiously leaves their home, carrying

suitcases and belongings.

INT. ROTH'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Bussetta raises a hospital pillow, and easily begins to

smother the thin old man, who can barely struggle.

OUT IN THE HALL

A detachment of military move quickly, accompanied by some

of Roth's men, as though they have important news that must

be dealt with.

They pass the small group of aides and nurses welcoming the

New Year.

Seeing them, the nurse assigned to him, puts down her glass

and moves quickly to the room.

She opens the door, and lays bare the sight of Bussetta

smothering Roth.  Bussetta turns quickly; and one of the

military takes out his pistol and shoots several times at

his head.

INT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - NIGHT

The entire reception has been disrupted for an announcement;

all the guests in their formal dress and evening gowns,

standing with frightened faces like first class passengers

on a doomed ship.  The President himself, his back to our

VIEW, is making an announcement in Spanish.  While he

speaks, we notice continuous movement of his personal staff,

carrying suitcases and possessions.

The crowd is stunned; already whispers are moving throughout

the guests.

The only one who is not completely taken off guard is

Michael, who quietly steps back, and disappears from the room.

By now, there is only one thought among the guests: how can

they get out, and with what.

EXT. PRESIDENTIAL PALACE - NIGHT

We see evidence of the confusion at this late hour; already

cars are beginning to move; people leaving the Palace in

haste.  Michael moves quickly toward his car.  He sees

Fredo, watching him in fear.

VIEW ON FREDO

Terrified of his brother, and what he knows; Fredo backs

away into the growing noise and confusion of the crowd.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

Finally, he has to step into the car and it roars off.

EXT. HAVANA STREETS - NIGHT

Rebel cars with loudspeakers have already picked up the news

that Batista has conceded...this throws the crowds already

gathered for the New Year into cheers of joy.

They harass a wealthy family who are trying to get away in

their car.

The people pull them out of the car, opening their suitcases,

out of which spill piles of cash and jewelry into street.

Michael's car makes its way as the crowd cheers: "El animale

se fue!"

EXT. THE UNITED STATES EMBASSY - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

Crowds of panicked and frightened tourists, and Batistianos

are trying to get to the safety of the Embassy with the

families and possessions.

We see Geary, and some of the Americans we had met, working

their way through the crowds, shouting that they are

Americans in order to get preference on the line.  Often

that declaration brings 'boos' from the crowds.

Sometimes the joyous Cubans will let a family through, but

again, taking away the suitcases, rich leather, filled with

money and valuables.  Money seems to be stuffed everywhere.

EXT. THE YACHT CLUB - NIGHT

All forms of private transportation are jammed with people

trying to get out, holding cash in their hands for anyone

with a yacht or small boat to get them to Florida.

A car pulls up; and we see Sam Roth, Terri Roth and some of

their men, carry the sickly, but still alive Hyman Roth to a

private cruiser which is protected by men with machine guns.

Within seconds, they are on their way to Miami.

EXT. THE PRIVATE AIRPORT - NIGHT

Things are no different at the airport; where anything that

can fly is being jammed with refugees and their money.

A wealthy family is arguing with the pilot of a fast

airplane; trying to force cash on him, and his family into

the plane.  The PILOT steadfastly refuses, although checking

his watch, as though his passengers are late.  He speaks

only English.

Finally Michael's Mercury pulls up, and Michael approaches

the Pilot.

The Pilot lets Michael in, as the Cuban screams curses at

them, and begins searching for another plane for his family.

INT. THE PLANE - VIEW ON THE PILOT - NIGHT

as the propeller turns over.

EXT. THE AIRPORT - FULL VIEW - NIGHT

Groups of the cheering, celebrating Cubans sing

"Guantanamera," now as a song of triumph.

INT. THE PLANE - MOVING VIEW - MICHAEL - NIGHT

Closer to him, his personal and business life caught in the

middle of history.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - MED. VIEW - DAY (1920)

He stops to pick out some choice oranges and peaches from a

fruit stand.  Then he reaches into his pocket for change.

CLOSE VIEW ON VITO

INT. VITO'S TENEMENT - DAY

Despite his new position of 'respect,' there is little

changed about his home.  Only that they have lived there a

while now, and the rooms are fuller with the inevitable

possessions a young family acquires.

He kisses his wife, who seems a big apprehensive.  He shows

her the fruit; and from her reaction knows she has something

on her mind.

They step into the tiny parlor, where we see an older woman,

waiting nervously.

He seems surprised; looks to his wife.

Vito nods to the frightened old woman.

Carmella breaks into a smile; which her husband des not

acknowledge.

The old woman starts to leave the room; but she is not

convinced.

EXT. TENEMENT BLOCK - DAY

SIGNOR ROBERTO, a pompous, rather well-dressed Patrone

angrily walks down the steps of one of his tenement buildings.

He carries a check list, and makes marks with a pencil

concerning the condition of his various buildings; a broken

window here, some missing tile there.  He bends over to pick

up some garbage left by a thoughtless tenant, muttering to

himself, when he sees the shoes and legs of a young worker.

He rises to be face to face with a polite Vito Corleone.

Signor Roberto brusquely answers, and continues on his way.

MOVING SHOT ON THE TWO

Vito reaches into his pocket, and takes out a roll of bills.

Vito raises his hands in surprise; his voice is reasonable.

Without a word more, Vito leaves a hypnotized Roberto

standing in front of the tenement, his hand clasping the

money.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - DAY

A thin young man, almost gawky, walks down the street in

this Italian neighborhood, his name is HYMAN SUCHOWSKY.

He carries his tools as he comes home from work.  He is

pursued and tormented by a couple of Italian youths, about

his own age, eighteen.

He tries not to be intimidated; finally one of the boys,

steps in front of him and stops him.

An amused Peter Clemenza steps forward from a local coffee

house, to preside over the fuss.  He's a 'big' man in the

neighborhood, and loves a fight.

He giggles at his own joke.

The boy doesn't answer, tries to keep going.

And with that, he rounds a blow squarely to the boy's face,

sending him sprawling to the cement, his tools flying with a

clatter.

The other Italian immediately joins in with a few kicks to

the boy's stomach.  Hyman tries to fight back; grabs a hold

of his tormentor's foot, and brings him down on the cement

as well.  For a moment, they are rolling around on the

sidewalk, two against one, Hyman taking the worst of it.

Clemenza pulls him off, and kicks him in the ass.

The boy seems agreeable.

He leads the boy down the street, whispering to him, on the

side:

INT. NEW GENCO WAREHOUSE - DAY

A newly acquired warehouse, stocked with cases of the new

product "GENCO PURA" olive oil.  It is the beginning of a

new business, in the American tradition.  Now they have one

rattling old truck, and a few stock boys.

Genco has become the accountant-business manager, based on

the experience working with his father.  But it is clear,

that Vito is the leader, and undisputed 'President' of the

new enterprise.

Genco moves through the darkness of the warehouse, to the

small divided area that Vito uses as his office.

Vito nods that he will see him; and soon Roberto enters, on

tiptoe, his hat in his hand, and in a apologetic voice.

Then abruptly, he puts the roll of money on Vito's table,

and steps back a respectful distance.

Vito embraces him warmly.

He quickly takes his leave, bowing several times, and then

makes it back to the safety of the warehouse; he sighs,

deflates his lungs, and mops his brow; his bones have turned

too jelly with fear at his narrow escape.  He all but runs

out of the warehouse.

Genco laughs as he watches.

Clemenza has been waiting with his new mechanic.  We notice

the subtle difference in the way he treats Vito.  He is no

longer a junior apprentice in their petty crimes; but an

imposing leader.

Vito looks over the lanky young man.

Genco is out in the alley; he calls out with glee.

Vito moves out to the smiling Genco; Clemenza and the newly

christened Hyman Rothstein follow a distance behind.

EXT. THE ALLEY - DAY

Genco stands beaming, as two workers raise up high, the

freshly painted sign: "GENCO OLIVE OIL COMPANY."

The young men watch as the sign is hoisted into place.  OUR

VIEW goes from one to the other: Clemenza, Genco, Vito and

Hyman Rothstein.

INT. SENATE CAUCUS ROOM - MED. CLOSE VIEW - DAY

Willy Cicci, Pentangeli's associate and bodyguard takes a

drink of water.

VIEW ON SENATOR KANE

A thin, angular Baptist with a Mid-Western accent.

The Senators treat Cicci with a surface courtesy, as if he

were a curious kind of animal, not really human.  Cicci

reacts to this by being even more brutally forthright than

he has to be, to show his contempt for what he considers a

hypocrisy.

The VIEW ALTERS from Senator Kane to the Committee's

attorney, Mr. Questadt.

EXT. THE TROPICANA IN VEGAS - MED. VIEW - DAY

A limousine pulls up at a private area near the side of the

hotel.  Michael exits the limousine followed by Hagen and

Neri.

Michael smiles to him, but it's a cold, deadly smile.

EXT. PRIVATE BALCONY OF CORLEONE APARTMENT AT TROPICANA - DAY

A Corleone bodyguard waits outside on the balcony overlooking

the pool area.  Through the translucent draperies, we see a

grouping of me.

INT. CORLEONE APARTMENT AT THE TROPICANA - DAY

Michael, Hagen, Neri and Rocco are seated in this luxury in

the hotel.  Michael sits in a comfortable chair in his

apartment.  Neri comes and brings him a drink without

asking, but Michael refuses it.

Hagen nods.

Neri comes around with a wet face towel, which Michael uses

to cool his eyes.  He puts the used towel down on the table.

They know what he means and leave the apartment, going out

to the balcony where we can see them but they cannot hear.

Only Hagen remains.

Hagen pauses; doesn't know how to begin.

After a moment:

EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - DAY

The first snow of the New Year has fallen; the trees are

bare, and there is hush all over this part of the Sierras.

Michael is driven in his car, looking out at the familiar

sight of the home he has been forced to be away from.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

looking out from his window.  The last time he had seen the

estate it was warm, and the trees were full.

MOVING VIEW

approaching the great stone gates; closed.  The bodyguards

are not readily visible, but they are there.  The iron gates

are opened, and one of the men makes a simple nod of respect,

as the car pulls in.

NEW VIEW

Inside the estate, the private roads have been freshly

plowed, and occasionally a worker will pause to watch the

car as it passes.

The Grandchildren are in school now, and so the estate is

especially quiet.  Although there are signs that children

live here; a bicycle, a sled, a swing and gymnastic set, wet

and with a rim of snow still on it.

INT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - VIEW FROM INSIDE THE HOUSE - DAY

to the outside, where Michael walks slowly.  He stops and

looks at a little Italian red sportscar made for children.

NEW VIEW

The front door opens, and Michael enters his own home.  It

is very quiet, no one is at home to greet him.  He can see

the evidence of his family; things his wife and his children

have been using, and left on a sofa or a table.

He moves toward his and Kay's bedroom, where we can HEAR the

SOUND of a sewing machine running.

Quietly he opens the door.

MICHAEL'S VIEW

into the bedroom.  Kay is sitting by the window, lit by the

cold afternoon light, at work with her sewing machine.  She

hasn't noticed that he's in the room yet, and goes on with

her work.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

stands there a moment, watching, not making a sound.  And

then without a word, he steps back, and closes the door, so

that she doesn't see him.

VIEW FROM INSIDE THE HOUSE

onto Michael, moving outside, walking through the snow, he

moves to the house next to his own.

INT. CONNIE'S HOUSE - DAY

This is the house where Mama lives with Connie's children,

Connie so rarely is there.

He steps in; his mother is asleep in a chair in the living

room.  He moves to her, and bends low, whispers.

She opens her eyes, which are red and small with age.

FULL VIEW IN ROOM - MICHAEL AND HIS MOTHER

Quietly we HEAR the music of a small band playing an Italian

march.  From the orchestration, we know it is from the past.

EXT. TRAIN STATION AT CORLEONE - DAY

Vitone and his young family: Mama, Santino, Fredo and the

baby Michael are met at the small station in Sicily by

friends, and Mama's relatives.  There is a small band,

playing for the occasion.  A small man has brought a motor

car to pick the family up; and there are certain dark men,

with shotguns slung over their shoulders to preside over the

occasion.

The family is helped into the car; the luggage is packed on

the roof, and the car drives off.  The second car, with

bodyguards following.

EXT. DON TOMASINO'S VILLA OUTSIDE OF CORLEONE - DAY

The villa is bloomed with flowers and DON TOMASINO at this

point is a man in his late twenties.  He embraces Vitone and

pats the heads of his children, and leads them all into the

garden.

INT. THE VILLA - SUMPTUOUS MED. VIEW - LATE DAY

A sumptuous table is set for the visiting family from

America.  There is a warm atmosphere as Vito, his wife and

children eat.  Tomasino and his family received presents

from Carmella and to Tomasino's mother, and gifts are given

to all of the children.

All typically American representing some of the prosperity

and interests in the consumer goods that followed a great war.

EXT. CORLEONE PLAZA - DAY

The family exits the church on the plaza of the town.  Vito

shakes hands warmly with the priest.

INT. VILLAGE COTTAGE - NIGHT

The door is open -- the footsteps of a man enter the room.

We follow these footsteps without quite knowing to whom they

belong.  They lead us to a bed, where we see asleep an OLD

MAN.  He sleeps in his undershirt and is sweating, covered

by mosquito netting.

VIEW ALTERS

and we realize that it is young Vito looking at the MAN.

We remember that the man is MOSCA, one of three men, who

almost twenty years before had hunted down Vito when he was

a boy.  With lightning speed, Vito slashes through the

mosquito netting with a knife.  And with the movement

precise as a butcher's he disembowls this man.

EXT. OLIVE OIL WAREHOUSE - FULL VIEW

Vito has brought his wife and children to see the Olive Oil

Depot which is the link to his New York importing business.

They go inside.

INT. OLIVE OIL WAREHOUSE - DAY

They are led by one of Vito's associates through rows and

rows of large vats of olive oil.  Vito very proudly shows

his associates in Italy the olive oil can that will be used

in the United States.  They all stand around at the link to

their new importing business and share a toast of wine.

EXT. THE BAY - DAY

A team of Sicilian fisherman are at work mending their nets.

One sings accompanied by a guitar.

VIEW MOVES TO ONE OF THE OLD FISHERMAN

He is recognized as the second of the men who had hunted

Vito down.  STROLLO.  As he walks we notice there is a

figure that is moving through the drying sails and barrels,

it is Vito.  He moves quietly, stepping up behind the old

man.  In an instant, he has thrown a garrote around his

throat, twisting it tight, so that there is very little

sound.

Then, almost silently dragging him through the space hidden

by the drying sails.

EXT. THE IMPRESSIVE ESTATE OF DON FRANCESCO - DAY

We see an old car approach.  Its driver is the young Tomasino.

Sitting in the car with him is Vito.

The car stops at the gates, and an old guard sees and

recognizes Tomasino, opens the gates allowing them to enter.

MED. VIEW

on an almost decrepit DON FRANCESCO.  He must be in his

early nineties, sitting as powerful and as impressive as

ever, in his throne-like chair from which he manages the

power as the Mafia Chieftan of this village.  Young Don

Tomasino is speaking.

We notice in a little distance in the rear, there are some

younger shepherds with shotguns thrown over their shoulders.

The old man and his eyes glance up at a notion of a man who

has taken the name of this town as his name.

Tomasino respectfully puts a can of olive oil where the old

man can look at it.  The old man nods, accepting the notion

of this business.

Vito takes those several steps, so that he is standing right

in front of the old man.

VIEW ON DON FRANCESCO

looking up, squinting against the sun.

DON FRANCESCO'S VIEW

Strangely backlit, almost blurry image of the young man from

America.

CLOSE VIEW ON THE OLD MAN

The recognition of the name throws a shudder through him.

It is as though he recognizes that this is the boy; the son

of his old enemy, whom he had killed, and whose sons he had

tried to wipe out.  The old man raises his feeble hands

signalling his guard, and in his weak voice, he shouts:

But he is too late; Vito steps forward.

And uses the knife, ritualistically plunging it into the old

man's belly, and then up to his throat, which is severed.

VIEW ON TOMASINO

has drawn his pistol and quickly shoots one of the guards,

helping Vito to escape back into the motor car.

VIEW ON A GUARD

raising his shotgun.

VIEW ON THE MOTOR CAR

Just as Tomasino is about to get into the car, the shotgun

is fired, and he is hit in the legs.

Vito manages to pull him up into the car, and they make

their escape.

EXT. RAILROAD STATION IN CORLEONE - DAY

Some of the townspeople have come bringing flowers and gifts

for Vito and his family.

His wife is radiant with the flowers given her.

The train has arrived and the crowd shout "Ciao, come back

soon."

THE VIEW ALTERS

revealing his good friend Tomasino, waving from his

wheelchair.

VIEW ON VITO

and his wife.  She holds up the baby Michael, and helps him

wave his hand.

INT. SENATE CAUCUS ROOM - MED. CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL - DAY

There is a pause for a while, while the New York Senator

poses for the TV cameras and leaves the hearing so that he

will not be associated with hearing the rough stuff.

Michael had checked this point with Hagen, before answering,

and then once again after the answer.

A pause.  Silence, as the Chairman whispers something to his

assistant.

Tom Hagen takes a paper out of his briefcase, and addresses

the Chair.

At this point Senator Rogers contemptuously walks out of the

hearing room.

The television cameras have documented this moment, as Hagen

hands the document over to the committee lawyer.

EXT. ARMY POST - DAY

An army post somewhere in the East.  It is safely guarded.

INT. HOUSE ON THE POST - DAY

where Pentangeli is being held by his constant companions,

the two FBI MEN.

EXT. THE BOATHOUSE ALCOVE - DAY

A somewhat frightened Fredo Corleone sits in the easy chair

overlooking the lake in this canopied section of the

boathouse.  Rocco sits with him.

INT. BOATHOUSE - DAY

Michael is in the dark room with Hagen and Neri.

EXT. BOATHOUSE FOYER - DAY

Fredo sits on the couch.  When Rocco sees Michael, he

automatically takes his leave.  Michael sits in the chair

opposite Fredo.

Fredo gets up, walks to the glass panel that separates the

terrace from the lake.

Michael turns, and starts to leave.  A frightened voice

behind him:

Michael doesn't stop, doesn't turn back.  He continues off

through the veranda, and out the summer doors.

Neri stops by him.

Michael leaves.

EXT. ARMY POST - DAY

Five cars brimming with Army guards and Agents are waiting

to move Pentangeli.  There is one empty car.

INT. GUARDED HOUSE - DAY

The two FBI Agents are helping Pentangeli get dressed.  He's

in brightly colored striped shorts and bare-chested.  The

Agents help him with the shirt and tie.  One holds out the

trousers but Pentangeli ignores it and looks at himself in

the mirror.

The Agents open the door, and precede him, surveying the

area.  They check the cars waiting, each with two Agents.

They check the gate and note the military sentries.  Then

they stand aside, and let Pentangeli come out.  They get

close to his side, and it is obvious they will protect his

life with their own.

EXT. ARMY POST - DAY

The Agents put him in the front seat of the empty car, and

get in with him, one at each side.  Another Agent drives.

Now, the first cars start out; the Sentries opening the

gates, and letting the caravan pass.

An Army supply truck comes very close to them, and the

Agents next to Pentangeli become very tense.  Pentangeli

grins.  Then the truck passes on, and they relax.

INT. SENATE CAUCUS ROOM - DAY

The room is crowded with TV journalists, cameras, etc.  We

pick Pentangeli up, closely guarded, being led to witness

chair.

Pentangeli is seated, and made to take his oath.  FBI Agents

are all around him.

MED. VIEW

Anyone given entrance to the caucus room is being frisked.

The five Senators take their places.

VIEW ON HAGEN

waiting at his long table, very nervous.  He seems startled

by the appearance of Pentangeli.

VIEW ON PENTANGELI

catching Hagen's eye.  It's as though he is pleading for

some kind of understanding of the fact that he has become a

traitor.

VIEW ON HAGEN

cold; then he turns away.

VIEW ON THE ENTRANCE

The bustle is settling down; then Michael Corleone enters,

and with him is someone very peculiar and out of keeping for

this setting.  A burly-chested imposing man of middle age.

Very powerful-looking with frightening magnetic eyes.  His

dress is odd: boots, rough tie, and shirt.  He could be the

tenor out of a Sicilian opera.  He is clearly a country Don,

direct from Sicily, and he dominates the room.

VIEW ON PENTANGELI

At first his view is blocked.  Then he sees Michael and is a

bit shamefaced, but still defiant.

PENTANGELI'S POV

Michael returns his glances without emotion.  Then the VIEW

ALTERS, revealing the Sicilian.

VIEW ON PENTANGELI

He is terror stricken; obviously he recognizes the man.

VIEW ON HAGEN'S TABLE

Michael and the Sicilian sit by Hagen, where they can stare

directly at Pentangeli; he is frozen with fear.

VIEW ON THE SENATOR

Notices the tension in the room.  The Chairman commences:

There is a long silence.

VIEW ON PENTANGELI

He seems unable to speak.

VIEW ON THE SICILIAN

gazing at him.

VIEW ON PENTANGELI

Senator Kane is stunned.  The two FBI men are alert, their

eyes searching the room for what has intimidated their

witness at the last moment.

The die is cast and like a good soldier, Pentangeli will go

all the way now.  So he is brazen in his defiance of the

Senator.

He makes a big grin to show how he has made fools of

everybody.

VIEW ON THE FBI AGENTS

glancing around the room; their eyes have settled on the

Sicilian.  One of them scribbles a note on a piece of paper,

and passes it to the Committee lawyer.  Then in turn it goes

to Senator Kane.

VIEW ON MICHAEL AND VINCENZO PENTANGELI

They wait with no expression.

Vincenzo stares at him, uncomprehending.  There may just be

a shadow of contempt.  He doesn't answer.

The guards and FBI Agents quickly remove Pentangeli, as

everybody else in the room is required to sit still.

For the first time, in the midst of the confusion, Hagen

smiles.  A bitter, contemptuous smile.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

The modest champion.  He rises and they take their leave.

VIEW ON THE TWO FBI AGENTS

They watch the Corleone party as they exit.

INT. WASHINGTON HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY

The Corleone nurse is waiting, playing with the little girl

MARY.  A distance away, the boy, Anthony, is standing by

himself.

INT. MICHAEL'S SUITE - WASHINGTON HOTEL - DAY

The door to Michael's suite opens; Rocco leans in.

Michael is sitting in an easy chair; he seems to have

difficulty with his eyes.

Michael rises, surprised.  Rocco steps back, and Kay enters.

Kay begins to realize.

He moves to her; he does love her, and is tender with her.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

He had no hint, not in his wildest imagination could he have

guessed that she would do such a thing.

He is silent, though raging -- then, with all his passion,

and his strength, he raises his arms, and strikes her across

her neck, literally knocking her down to the floor, and

hurting her badly.

FADE IN:

EXT. THE CORLEONE ESTATE AT TAHOE - FULL VIEW - DAY

A collection of dark cars and black limousines are gathered

to one side.  A few drivers wait quietly.

And then, to the other extreme of the estate, is a small

grouping of about twenty to thirty people, gathered near

Michael's house.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Connie Corleone, dressed simply and now showing her age

without the carefully applied makeup which we have been used

to, kneels down before the shrine of Santa Theresa, and puts

down a bouquet of flowers, along with others that have been

placed there.  We see that some have the simple silk ribbon

with the word "Mama" hand-lettered upon it.

Her two children stand close behind her; they had been

raised by their Grandmother.

Connie steps back, and moves through the small group of

friends and relatives, into Michael's house.

INT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - CONNIE'S VIEW - DAY

Fredo, kneeling by the coffin of his mother in a portion of

the house that has been set aside for the wake.  Fredo

concludes his prayer, wipes away the tears in his eyes and

steps away from the coffin.

He stops when he notices Neri, a little distance away,

looking at him.

VIEW ON NERI

After a moment, he nods respectfully to Fredo, and steps

forward, moving to the old woman's coffin.  Fredo moves to

Hagen, who is there with his wife and children.

INT. THE BOATHOUSE - MED. VIEW - DAY

Michael sits quietly in the darkened room in one of the big

sofas, dressed immaculately in suit and tie.  His two

children, also dressed for the wake sit opposite him in the

other oversized sofa, their shoes not touching the floor.

We regard this tableau for a long moment.

She comes in, and sits down by his knees.

Michael nods.

The children don't move; Connie realizes they will only

listen to Michael.

Slowly, Michael puts his hand on her hair, and touches her

gently.

INT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - DAY

Friends, relatives; Francesca and her new husband, Gardner

and their baby; Sandra Corleone; Teresa, her children; all

the familiar faces of the family are present, quietly paying

their respects to Mama.

Some of the men can be seen in the kitchen, drinking wine,

and talking in low voices.

Fredo is there, broken-hearted over the loss of his Mother;

like some lost child with no friends.

MED. VIEW

Michael enters the room, followed by Connie, who tends

little Mary and Anthony.

He approaches his brother, and then embraces.  Fredo breaks

into tears.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

embracing his brother, he glances up.

VIEW ON NERI

quiet, and deadly.

EXT. THE TAHOE ESTATE - MED. VIEW - DAY

Tom Hagen is talking in the distance to his wife, and one of

his older sons; he kisses, and moves toward the boathouse.

After crossing the lawn, he stops.

VIEW ON SANDRA CORLEONE

waiting there; obviously wanting to talk to him.  He

continues, and she walks with him.

MOVING VIEW ON THE TWO

as they cross toward the boathouse.

She stops him.

He continues past her, without answering her.  Continues up

to the boathouse.  He stops before he enters.

HAGEN'S VIEW

Fredo is sitting by the edge of the harbor with Michael's

son Anthony; he is helping him with some fishing rig.

INT. THE BOATHOUSE - VIEW ON MICHAEL - DAY

looking through the window at his son and brother.  Neri

sits in the room, dressed informally.

EXT. THE HARBOR - DAY

Fredo sits with Anthony, with a silly-looking fishing hat on

his head, covered with lure and flies.

INT. GUARDED HOUSE - DAY

The guards step aside as Tom Hagen enters the foyer of the

house.  He shows a court order to them and they lead him up

the stairs where he knocks on the door.

INT. GUARDED HOUSE - DAY

There is a KNOCK at the door.  The two guards show Hagen in

and Hagen presents the court order to one of the FBI men.

They pass out of the room.

EXT. THE ARMY POST - DAY

Hagen and Pentangeli outside, by the electric fence.  They

cannot be overheard.  Pentangeli takes out some cigars and

offers Hagen one.  Hagen takes it and Pentangeli lights both

their cigars.  They puff on them contentedly.  They are

comfortable together, almost.

The light is beginning to turn reddish as the sun falls.

They both puff on their cigars.  Pentangeli lets himself be

carried away by thoughts of old days of glory; Hagen thinks

of other days too.

Pentangeli looks at Hagen; he understands.

Hagen throws away his cigar.  Pentangeli puffs on his.

They shake hands.  The FBI Agents come out to let Hagen out

the gate.  Pentangeli is led back to the house.

Pentangeli puffs on his cigar and reflects.

Pentangeli puffs on his cigar and gives the Agent a smile an

old man gives a child.  He starts upstairs.

EXT. THE ARMY POST - DAY

Hagen walks away; glances back.  Then gets into his waiting

car and drives off.

INT. THE BOATHOUSE - FULL VIEW - SUNSET

Michael sits alone in the empty boathouse; in the shadows.

INT. BOAT DOCK - SUNSET

Neri stands by the dock area under the boathouse.  He pushes

the button which lowers a boat by winch and tackle.  He

wears a fishing cap.

He steps into the boat, and pulls the small outboard, which

glides the boat out into the harbor.

MED. VIEW

The boat pulls up alongside Fredo and Anthony.

He lifts Anthony into the boat.

THEIR VIEW

Connie, in houseclothes, is calling Anthony.

He lifts the boy out of the boat, and puts him on the shore.

Neri stands the motor; and the boat with the two fisherman

glides off.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

watching, from the dark window of the boathouse.

INT. HIGH SECURITY HOUSE IN ARMY POST - NIGHT

The FBI man knocks on the bathroom door in the house where

they have kept Pentangeli.

No answer; he hammers on the door.  Using his elbow, and

then a kick he breaks into the bathroom.

HIS VIEW

Pentangeli lying in a tub of water.  His stomach shows above

it.  His wrists are cut and covered with blood.  The bath

water has a purplish tone.

EXT. LAKE TAHOE - MED. VIEW - SUNSET

Fredo and Neri are fishing, each with lines out.  The VIEW

MOVES CLOSER, and we can hear Fredo as he holds the pole.

LONG SHOT

The boat on the shimmery lake.

We hear a quiet, echoing GUNSHOT; and then silence.

INT. MIAMI AIRPORT - NIGHT

An exhausted Hyman Roth, ill-shaven, and in shirt-sleeves in

taken into custody by a swarm of Customs, and FBI men.  They

allow him to be photographed by press people; and television

cameramen.

Some flashbulbs go off.

The newsmen and photographers all laugh, as the FBI men move

him away.

CLOSE VIEW

One of the newspapermen laughing we recognize to be Rocco

Lampone.

He moves closer to Roth, and shoves his revolver right

against his head, and in a second, on camera, assassinates

Roth.  People scream, as Rocco attempts to run down the

airport corridor, limping as he does.

FBI men easily pick him off.

EXT. THE DRIVEWAY BY MICHAEL'S HOUSE - DAY

A taxi cab waits by the house; its driver sleeping with a

newspaper over his face.

INT. MICHAEL'S HOUSE - DAY

The cleaning woman, Esther, who had been with Kay for years,

sits by the dining room table, weeping profusely.  Behind

her, in the recreation room, we can see the tableau of Kay

sitting on the couch, her little daughter Mary, between her

knees, talking quietly about things we cannot hear.  Her son

Anthony sits by himself, in another chair by the side of the

room.

MED. VIEW

Connie comes into the house quickly, and moves toward them.

This prompts Esther to weep all the more.  Kay hugs her

daughter, and kisses her many times.

Kay puts her coat on; then stands, and reaches out for her

son.

He doesn't move.

He rises, and walks to her.  Hugs her lifelessly.

MED. CLOSE VIEW

on Kay, kissing her boy.

She restrains any tears; she has become too strong for tears.

Kay starts to go; picks up Mary, kisses her, and starts to go.

NEW VIEW

She steps out the kitchen door; then she cannot help herself.

Crouches down, outside, and calls to her son.

Then she looks up, and slowly rises.

HER VIEW

Michael has stepped into the dining room.  He seems older

somehow; as though some sickness has taken more years away

from him.

VIEW ON KAY

looks at him; instinctively, she takes a step back.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

slowly steps toward her.

VIEW ON KAY

Another step back; the door is still open.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

He moves closer to the door; stops, looks at her.  And then

closes it obscuring any view of her.

EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - DAY

It is late fall -- most of the leaves have fallen on the

grounds and there is quite a wind.

MED. VIEW

The water is whipped up by the wind, and the waves are high

as they break against the pavilion.  We HEAR the MUSIC of

time passing, of Michael, of the Godfather over these images.

VIEW ON THE SWIMMING POOLS

They have not been used in several months; they are drained

and the bottoms are mossy and dark.

VIEW ON THE MAIN GATE

Leaves blowing past it; we don't see the button men; only a

hint of someone in the gatehouse.

VIEW ON THE HOUSES

Some of the houses have had the summer awnings taken down,

and put away.  Some of the windows have been boarded up.

VIEW ON THE KENNELS

There are still the guard dogs; some sleeping, some moving

impatiently.

As the MUSIC concludes its statement.

MED. VIEW

The peninsula of the private Corleone Harbor.  We see the

figures of two people, seated at a table.

MED. VIEW

Michael sits at a table having a sparse lunch.  He is

attended by his sister Connie, who seems to be the closest

person now living on the estate with him.  We see from the

way she pampers him with his lunch, that she has fallen into

the role of a surrogate Mother-Wife.  He seems older than

his years, as though his illness, diabetes, has taken its

toll.

She picks up some of the serving plates that he has left

untouched.

She moves back to the main house.

MED. CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL

He turns and looks at the rough water of the lake for a

moment.  He slowly takes a sip of wine.

EXT. A PLACE IN THE GARDEN - DAY

There are a few chairs.

MED. VIEW ON ANTHONY CORLEONE

He is eighteen years old.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

squinting up at his son.

He rises, and reaches up to his son, who is now taller than

he; he embraces him.

Connie approaches them.

She begins to give Michael the shot.

Anthony goes on his way to the house with his things.

Connie gives Michael the shot.

She finishes the shot, puts her things away.

She leaves.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

Alone in the garden.

OUR VIEW begins to MOVE CLOSER to him.  We begin to HEAR

MUSIC of the forties; happy music, swing music, as we move

CLOSER to Michael.

INT. OLD CORLEONE HOUSE - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

SONNY CORLEONE, his arm wrapped around a smiling red-faced

Carlo Rizzi, pulls him into the Corleone dining room.

An older, lanky man enters the room, his arms laden with

presents.  This is TESSIO.

Now the study door opens, and DON CORLEONE enters.

The Don happily regards his family; his sons and daughters

and even some Grandchildren.  He raises a glass.

They all drink.

They refill glasses; then Tessio proposes a toast.

They all drink.

INT. THE DINING ROOM - MED. VIEW - NIGHT

The family is happily at Christmas dinner.  Don Corleone

seated at the head of the table.

VIEW ON MICHAEL

He has been listening to this discussion.

A quiet hush descends over the table, as though everyone

knows the effect this will have on the old man.  Sonny tries

to make light of it.

VIEW ON DON CORLEONE

Disturbed; but wise and prudent.

He rises, and starts across the room toward his study.  Then

he looks back.

He disappears into his study.  Michael rises, glances around.

People are generally tense over the situation.  Michael

follows his father into the study.

INT. DON CORLEONE'S OLD STUDY - NIGHT

The Don closes the door behind his son, and then moves

across the room.  He stops at the little bar there, and

pours himself a brandy.

CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL

looking at his father with a mixture of great love, and also

fear, and confusion.

EXT. THE TAHOE ESTATE - HIGH FULL VIEW - DAY

The leaves are blowing.  MUSIC comes up.

Michael and his young son, Anthony, walk through the grounds

of the estate, talking about things we cannot hear.

