NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS

AND SOME "SCENE OMITTED" SLUGS. THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR

THIS SOFT COPY.

FADE IN:

MAIN TITLES BEGIN

Writhing pools of light and dark, out of which emerge images

from "The Bride of Frankenstein," directed by James Whale.

Elsa Lanchester, as the Monster's Bride, looks up, down,

left, right, startled to be alive.  The Monster stares at

her.  "Friend?" he asks, tenderly, desperately.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT (B & W)

Lightning splits the black-and-white sky, revealing a single

shattered oak in a desolate landscape.  Below, a HUMAN

SILHOUETTE stumbles through the darkness, the top of his

head flat, his arms long and heavy, his boots weighted with

mud.

Suddenly the storm fades.  Light creeps into the scene, and

color, as we DISSOLVE TO:

THE PACIFIC OCEAN

melting into a hazy morning sky.  In a box canyon off the

coast highway, we see row after neat row of trailer homes, a

makeshift village for beach bums.

INT. TRAILER - DAY

CLAYTON BOONE opens his eyes.  He is 26, handsome in a

rough-hewn, Chet Baker-like way, with broad shoulders and a

flattop haircut.  He grabs a crumpled pack of Lucky Strikes,

lights a bent cigarette.

Clay stands and walks bare-assed across the single tin room,

his head almost touching the ceiling.

EXT. TRAILER PARK - DAY

Clay goes a few rounds with a weatherstained speed bag

that's set up behind his trailer.

INT. TRAILER - DAY

Clay towels off, glances at the morning paper.  He moves

aside a pile of paperbacks on a card table until he finds a

calendar.  His finger targets today's first appointment.

"10 A.M. - 788 Amalfi Drive."

EXT. TRAILER PARK - DAY

Clay steps out of the trailer, clean-shaven and dressed in

dungarees, a T-shirt with a fresh pack of cigarettes flipped

into one sleeve.  He weight-lifts a secondhand mower onto

the bed of his rusty pick-up.

Clay climbs into the truck, slides the key into the

ignition.  It takes a few tries but the engine finally turns

over.

EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - DAY

Clay's truck sails down the road, "Hound Dog" blaring on the

radio.  MAIN TITLES END.

EXT. COLONIAL-STYLE HOUSE - DAY

Sprinklers twirl on a grassy slope outside a rambling

clapboard house.  Below, a swimming pool forms a perfect

rectangle of still water.  A title reads: SANTA MONICA

CANYON.  1957.

The pick-up drives past.  Clay parks in the back, hops out.

ANGLE - HOUSE

A SHADOWY FIGURE stands at a window, watching Clay unload

his red power mower.

INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The shadow is a man with dove white hair, wearing a dress

shirt and seersucker jacket.  This is JAMES WHALE, age 67.

In the dining room, visible through open double doors, DAVID

LEWIS, 55, speaks softly with the housekeeper, HANNA.  She

is a squat, muffin-faced Hungarian woman in her late 50s,

dressed in black, her hair cinched in a tight bun.  She

speaks with a thick accent.

He moves into the dining room, sits opposite David.

Hanna ignores him, returns to the kitchen.

The remark hits its target.

David extends his hand, but Whale draws him into a hug.  As

he starts out, David points to a framed painting.

Hanna runs out of the kitchen to escort David to the door.

Whale drifts back to the window, watches as Clay revs up the

lawnmower, creating a cloud of white smoke.  We CUT TO:

EXT. STREETS OF DUDLEY - DAY (1900)

A bean-pole child with flaming red hair (WHALE at age 12)

stares up at the coal smoke pouring from a seemingly endless

row of chimneys.  We're in Dudley, a factory town in the

English Midlands region known as the Black Country.

Whale runs to catch up to his six brothers and sisters.  His

father, WILLIAM WHALE, frowns at the boy's prissy trot.

Young Whale's movements thicken into a dim imitation of

manly reserve.  The Whale family marches up a steeply

mounting street to Dixon's Green Methodist Church.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Whale's eyes tighten.  He focuses on Clay Boone as he peels

off his T-shirt, revealing a tattoo on his upper right

forearm.

Whale nods, chooses a walking stick.  He emerges into the

sunlight.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DAY

Whale moves jauntily onto the front lawn, singing to

himself:

Whale steps up next to Clay.

Clay shrugs nonchalantly.

Whale clears his throat behind the back of his hand.

Clay glances warily at Whale.

Whale holds Clay's look.

Whale heads off, smiling to himself.  Pleased to be naughty

again.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY

The room is filled with unframed canvasses, many of them

copies of paintings by the Old Masters.

Whale rolls out the easel, lifts a half-painted canvas into

position.  He stares at the blotches of color, trying to

remember what he intended to paint.

Whale pulls out a heavy volume on Rembrandt, opens to a

black-and-white plate of "The Polish Rider."  We CUT TO:

INT. WHALE HOUSE - DUDLEY - NIGHT (1908)

A rough pencil outline of the same painting.  Whale, age 16,

sits on his bed, ignoring the roughhousing of the three

younger BROTHERS who share the room.  The door opens and

Whale's mother SARAH enters.

Both have Midlands accents, like head colds that flatten

their speech.  Whale holds up the sketch to show his mother.

Whale squeezes the pad behind the bed, jumps up.

And he heads cheerfully out of the room.  His mother shakes

her head.

But Whale is already out the door.  We CUT TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Whale studies his face in the mirror.  He gives his white

hair a few final licks with his silver-backed brush.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Whale comes in from the bedroom.

The doorbell rings.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Whale settles into his club chair and opens a book,

pretending to read until Hanna ushers in the visitor.

Whale looks up at EDMUND KAY, 22, a slim boy who rests his

weight on one slouched hip, his arms twined behind him.

There is a look of mild disappointment on Whale's face as he

realizes that Kay is a baby poof.

Whale stands and holds out his hand.

He suddenly growls out an imitation of Boris Karloff.

Kay laughs, a high, girlish giggle.  Whale fights a cringe

with a polite smile.

It's clear from Hanna's frown that she doesn't approve of

the idea.  Whale ignores her, turns back to Kay.

Whale inspects the boy from behind, noticing his wide hips

and plumpish posterior.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY

Kay's hands flap animatedly as Whale leads him down to the

pool.

Whale points to a small shingled house near the pool.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - UPPER PATIO - DAY

Clay Boone gulps some water from the garden hose.  He

glances down at the pool, where Kay and Whale sit in

cast-iron chairs.

Clay turns to Hanna, who holds a tray loaded with finger

sandwiches and a pitcher of iced tea.

She doesn't move until Clay starts off.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - POOLSIDE - DAY

Kay flips open his steno pad.

Whale's tongue trips on the word, his voice suddenly drowned

out by the blast of a factory whistle.  We CUT TO:

INT. FACTORY SHOP FLOOR - DUDLEY - DAY (1908)

Fiery melt is poured into molds on the shop floor of a

machine parts factory.  WHALE, 16, grips the hot casting

with tongs.  His father WILLIAM, his face blackened with

grime, hammers away at the flaws.  A heavy blow causes young

Whale to drop the mold, prompting catcalls and sneers on the

floor.  There is a look of genuine fear in Whale's eyes as

he looks up at his singed, beast-like father.  We CUT TO:

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY

Kay clears his throat softly.

Whale smiles politely to cover his momentary disorientation.

He glances to see if the boy smiles at the quip.

Hanna comes down the path with the tray.  She places it on

the table.

Hanna remains planted next to the table.

She makes an audible sigh and starts back up the hill.

An abrupt look of anger flashes across Whale's face.

Kay leans over the steno pad, determined to be more worthy.

Whale takes in the boy's blank, bored expression.  He sighs.

Kay's mouth pops open.

Kay just sits there, squinting and grinning.

Whale tilts his head as if brushing off a compliment.  Kay

kicks off his penny loafers, bends over to remove his socks.

Two pale feet emerge.  Whale leans forward to examine them.

He leans back again.

And he reaches into his coat for a cigar.  Whale's hand

trembles as he slices a hole at the base, then lights the

cigar with a wooden match, sucking and rotating until the

tip is roundly lit.

Kay nods.

Kay hesitates a moment, then sets his pen aside to pull the

sweater over his head, revealing a sleeveless T-shirt.

Kay stares at him in disbelief.

Kay plucks at his T-shirt, glancing toward the house.

Kay peels off the shirt and tosses it on his shoes and

sweater.

The revelation seems to have left Kay a little shaken.  he

flips to a blank page.

He glances down at his few remaining articles of clothing.

Kay stands to unbuckle his belt, glancing around the yard

again.  He unzips and steps out of his sharply creased

flannel legs.  His thighs are thin and pale.

Whale swallows a wince, trying to block the pain pushing

against his skull.

Whale clutches at the air, suddenly notices that his hand is

empty.  He looks down and sees the cigar on the flagstones.

Whale bends down to retrieve his cigar -- and the change of

gravity drives a spike through his skull.

Whale turns toward the froggy voice.

He forces himself up with one hand.  Kay finally looks up,

notices Whale's colorless lips and desperate eyes.

Whale lurches from the table.  Kay jumps forward, catching

him under an arm.

He leans against Kay, who leads him toward the studio.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DAY

Hanna runs down the path, clutching the front of her apron

in two tight fists.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY

Hanna swings open the screen door -- and grimaces when she

sees Kay in his BVDs.  He is kneeling next to Whale, who is

stretched out on the daybed.

She goes to Whale, scooping different bottles from the

pocket of her apron.

She empties a pill into her palm.  Whale places it into his

mouth and takes the glass of Water Kay passes over Hanna's

shoulder.  Whale swallows the pill, then glances up at Kay,

feigning surprise.

Kay frantically crosses his arms over his chest and middle,

turns to Hanna.

Kay hurries outside to retrieve his clothes.  Hanna undoes

Whale's bow tie.  She makes no attempt to be gentle.

Hanna nods, moves to the door.  Whale closes his eyes,

breathes deeply, trying to block the throbbing SOUND in his

brain.  We CUT TO:

INT. FACTORY SHOP FLOOR - DUDLEY - DAY (1908)

The noise is deafening -- the clank of chains, the screech

of wheels and the endless banging of hammers.  William Whale

continues to knock away at the hot casting.  The rhythmic

sound blends into the insistent knocking of:

A FIST

which smashes against sheet metal.

INT. CLAY'S TRAILER - DAY

Clay Boone's eyes dart open.

A baseball-capped head is visible through the louvered glass

in the trailer's door.  DWIGHT JOAD, 30, Clay's neighbor,

squints to see inside.

Clay glances over, seems surprised to see a naked back

facing him on the bare mattress.

The girl stirs, turns to face him.  She is 18 at most.

She presses her naked body against Clay's.

Clay takes a deep breath, trying to clear the gumminess from

his brain.

Daisy smiles at her own joke.  Clay frowns.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY

Whale ponders the half-painted canvas, clearly distressed by

his lack of progress.  The stillness is punctured by the

sound of Clay's lawnmower being dragged up the brick steps.

Whale smiles, puts down his brush.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY

Clay stops, turns around, feeling someone's eyes watching

him.

The mower slips out of Clay's hands momentarily.  he looks

around, spots Whale inside the studio.

The screen door squeaks open, clatters shut.  A leather

slipper and rubber-tipped cane appear.  Whale strolls into

view, smiling.

Whale's cane trembles in his skeletal hand.  His frailty

chips away at Clay's resolve.

Clay hoses the crumbs of grass off his arms.  He dries his

hands and arms with his hat, then wads it up and stuffs it

into his shirt to wipe out his armpits.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY

Clay stands at the screen door.

Whale sits on a daybed, next to a pile of newspapers.  He

gestures at a wooden armchair across from him.

Clay glances at the unframed canvases on the wall and

stacked in the corners.

Clay sits up, surprised, skeptical and impressed all at

once.

Clay jumps up to open the screen door.  Hanna walks past,

refusing to look at him.  She sets the tray on a table very

hard, ringing the glasses and silverware.

Hanna flares her nostrils at him.

Hanna stares up at Clay.

She shakes her head and marches out the door.  Clay returns

to his chair and sits down again.

Clay nods, chugs his tea.  When he lowers the glass, he

finds the old man watching him.

Whale's gaze deepens.  He laughs lightly.

Clay takes a moment to size up Whale -- whose innocent,

slightly befuddled smile makes him appear about as

threatening as a box of cornflakes.

Whale lifts his glass, takes a small sip of tea.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DAY

Clay fetches a pair of hedge clippers from his truck.  He

can't help stopping by the side-view mirror to look at his

face.

INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY

Doctors and technicians flash lights into Whale's eyes...

test his reflexes...inject him with radioactive isotope.

Whale sits very still with his head behind a fluoroscope

screen while two doctors murmur over the image.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

A pair of X rays are slapped wet on a light board.  Two

skulls, one facing forward, the other in profile.  DR.

PAYNE, a bland young neurologist, points to a smudge in the

side-view X ray.

The venetian blinds of the examining room are closed.  Whale

sits calmly, flanneled legs crossed at the knees, gazing at

his own skull.

Payne turns off the light board and goes to the venetian

blinds.  The room is instantly full of sun.

The doctor responds with a sympathetic gaze.  Whale nods

solemnly.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Whale makes his way toward the stairs.  He passes a

stoop-shouldered ELDERLY WOMAN who leans on the arm of her

middle-aged DAUGHTER.  Then an OLD MAN in a wheelchair, his

eyes brimming with bewilderment and despair.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - FOYER - DAY

Hanna opens the door.  Clay wears dungarees and a white

dress shirt.

She gestures him in, shuts the door.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Clay follows Hanna into the kitchen.

She thrusts a TV tray toward him.  Two glasses, two bottles

of beer, a bottle of Coke.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY

Clay opens the squeaking door and enters behind Hanna.

Whale stands at a drafting table, sharpening a pencil.

Hanna sets the tray down.

She goes toward the door, wrinkling her forehead at Clay.

The screen door bangs shut.

Whale opens a bottle of beer, pours it into a glass, hands

it to Clay.  He gestures to a chair.

Clay sits.  He pulls a "TV Guide" out of his back pocket.

Clay takes a swig of beer and sets the glass on the floor.

Whale stares at Clay.

He lifts a drop cloth off a footlocker, revealing a stack

of "Physique" magazines.  Whale casually covers them with a

newspaper.

He unbuttons the shirt and pulls it off.

Clay adjusts his belt buckle as Whale hangs the shirt on a

wall peg.  He moves back to the easel again.

The arm with the tattoo faces the easel.  Clay smirks.

A clatter of pencils in the easel's tray, followed by a

moment of silence.  Finally, a low, whistly scratch.  Clay

concentrates on keeping still, focusing on an open window.

Clay wipes a thin line of sweat from his waist.

Whale suddenly sniffs, as if smelling something.  He sniffs

several times more but continues to draw.

Whale stops.  He lets out a bitter laugh.

Clay stares out blankly.

Whale's voice has changed, becoming more pinched and nasal.

Whale seems completely lost in the past by now.

Whale peers out from behind the square of paper.  He pales

when he sees his father William, his face covered with

grime, glaring at him from across the room.  Whale retreats

behind the pad, takes a breath.

Relief floods Whale's face.  He looks out, smiles at Clay.

Whale rubs a hand across his eyes and steps into the open.

Whale pulls the cover sheet over the pad to hide what he's

drawn so far.

INT. HARRY'S BEACHCOMBER - NIGHT

The place is dead.  There's only Clay and Dwight sitting at

the bar with the owner, HARRY, a balding hep cat with a

scraggly tuft of beard.  And, in a booth, KID SAYLOR, a

cocky 20-year-old, necking with a pony-tailed TEENAGER.

BETTY CARTWRIGHT appears behind the bar, lugging a bucket of

ice from the storeroom.  She's an attractive woman in her

early 30s, big-boned and almost as tall as Clay.

Clay reacts to the silent treatment with a tight smile.

She sets down two bottles of Pabst without looking at Clay.

Betty glares at Clay, who realizes he's gone too far.

Harry reaches up, turns on a battered Motorola.  On the tv,

a voice announces: "Tonight, Boris Karloff in 'The Bride of

Frankenstein.'"  The titles come on.  Ending with the phrase

"Directed by", which floats over a white blob.  The blob

jumps forward to form letters: "James Whale."

The movie starts.  The Monster being roasted alive in the

flaming wreckage of a mill.

In a flooded crater under the mill, the Monster kills an old

man.  He climbs up, flips the man's wife into the pit below.

An owl blinks impassively.

Minnie, a hatchet-faced woman with fluttering ribbons, is

now alone with the Monster.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Whale and Hanna are in bathrobes and slippers, and there is

a glass of milk and a plate of cookies on Whale's TV tray.

On the tv, Minnie (played by UNA O'CONNOR) squeaks and

whimpers and screams.  Whale laughs.

But Hanna isn't amused.  She unclenches her arms to close

the bathrobe over her throat.

Minnie flees in a bowlegged jig up the hill.  Whale smiles

again.

INT. HARRY'S BEACHCOMBER - NIGHT

On the tv, Dr. Pretorius (played by Ernest Thesiger)

delivers a toast with inimitably ripe enunciation: "To a

new world of gods and monsters!"  Dwight and Harry and

Betty all laugh.

Suddenly the tinny tv soundtrack is drowned out by the voice

of Elvis Presley.  Kid Saylor bends over the jukebox,

wagging his denim butt and tapping a high-top sneaker.

Clay jumps from his stool.  Saylor sees him coming, steps

aside.

Clay slams the heel of his hand against Saylor's chest.  The

boy staggers backward.  Clay grabs the corner of the jukebox

and jerks it from the wall; the needle scratches across the

song.  Saylor holds up both hands in a nervous surrender.

Clay returns to the bar and uprights the stool.  Saylor

escorts his girl to the door.

On the tv, the blind man thanks God for sending him a

friend.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Hanna's frown pops open.

In a crypt, the Monster meets Dr. Pretorius, who is having a

midnight snack on top of a closed coffin.  "Friend?" the

monster asks.  "Yes, I hope so," answers Pretorius, without

batting an eyelash.  He offers the Monster a drink, then

adds: "Have a cigar.  They're my only weakness."

On the tv, the Monster groans:  "Love dead.  Hate living."

Whale's focus sharpens, prompted by the unexpected

discussion of death.

INT. HARRY'S BEACHCOMBER - NIGHT

The Monster holds a skull in both hands and happily

growls, "Wiiife."  Betty, shudders, for real this time.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Dr. Frankenstein and Pretorius make their final

preparations.  Frankenstein inquires where the fresh heart

came from.  "There are always accidental deaths occurring,"

Pretorius replies.  "Always."  Once again, Whale responds to

the talk of death.

INT. HARRY'S BEACHCOMBER - NIGHT

Finally, the Bride comes to life.  She looks up, down, left,

right, uncertain who she is.  The Monster stares

tenderly.  "Friend?"  He timidly touches her arm and she

screams.

The Monster is heartbroken.  Nobody loves him, not even his

Bride.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The Bride shrieks again.

The Monster's pain turns to anger.  He tears through the

lab, orders Frankenstein to escape with his wife.  But he

wants Pretorius and the Bride to stay.  "We belong dead."

Whale reacts sharply to the line.

The Monster blows up the laboratory and the movie ends.

Hanna shivers as she stands.

She hits the button on the Magnavox with the flat of her

palm.

INT. HARRY'S BEACHCOMBER - NIGHT

Betty turns off the Motorola.

Harry stands up and stretches.  Clay remains seated.

He wobbles when he climbs off his stool.

He tilts toward the door.

He waits to see how Betty reacts.  She shrugs.  Harry takes

his book and cash drawer to the back door.

He gives Clay one last look and goes out to the breezeway

and his apartment.

Clay leans down to plug in the jukebox.

She snaps her mouth open and imitates the Bride's

furious cat hiss.

He patiently waits by the door while Betty turns out the

lights.  She walks briskly through the glow of the jukebox,

waving Clay outside with her hand.

EXT. HARRY'S BEACHCOMBER - NIGHT

Betty pulls the door shut and bends over to lock it.  Clay

catches a glimpse of skin in the side slit of her shirttail.

Betty's eyes blink in mock surprise.

She opens the door of her Chevy.  Clay grabs it with both

hands to keep her from getting in.

Betty hesitates, then looks him sharply in the eye.

Betty bursts out laughing.

Clay glares at her, his jaw working forward in anger.

Clay's anger jumps from his jaw into his shoulders and arms.

He grabs the door handle.

Betty quickly gets into the car.  before she can pull the

door shut, Clay slams it on her, hard.  Her hands leap in

front of her face, as if he'd hit her.  The look of fear in

her eyes startles Clay out of his rage.

She frantically turns the key in the ignition and the Chevy

pulls out.

The car screeches away.  Clay stumbles across the highway.

EXT. TRAILER PARK - NIGHT

Clay comes to the dump at the end of the canyon.  He climbs

into it, kicking at loose cans.

He shouts the word at the cliff, for the raw, sudden

violence of shouting.

A dog in the carport starts to bark.  The sound of Clay's

pain echoes off the canyon as we CUT TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Whale is sitting up n bed when Hanna knocks.  She enters

with a tray loaded with bottles and vials.

Whale takes the pills, one by one, until he comes to the

bottle of Luminal.  He opens the pheno bottle to shake out a

capsule and a dozen spill into his palm.  He stares at them.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Hanna opens the door, gasps when she sees Whale lying

motionless on the bed.  She spots the empty bottle of

Luminal.

Hanna kneels next to the body.  She makes a Sign on the

Cross, launches into a frantic "Hail Mary."  We CUT TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Whale snorts at the imagined scene.  One by one, he returns

the capsules to their bottle, until a single pill remains.

He places it on the table, then turns out the lamp and lies

on his back in the dark, waiting for sleep.

The distant sound of laughter invades the darkness.  Whale

sits up, straining to identify the voices.  The bedroom wall

opposite him melts away, revealing:

INT. SPECIAL MAKEUP TRAILER - UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY (1935)

ELSA LANCHESTER and BORIS KARLOFF sit side by side in

dentist chairs, cloths around their necks, heads tilted

back.  JACK PIERCE, the makeup artist, is patting the hair

drawn over a cage on Elsa's head.  He looks up, sees Whale,

and breaks into a conspiratorial grin.  Elsa's eyes are

closed; she hasn't heard whale enter.

Whale tiptoes in for a better look.  Karloff has a

mouthpiece to help him breathe while the assistant adds

another coat of green sizing to the still incomplete

makeup.

Elsa's eyes snap open.  There are no mirrors on the walls.

Karloff shrugs, irked that she's getting all the attention.

Jack Pierce lifts a large mirror.

Elsa stares at the beautiful corpse in the mirror.  She

snaps her head left, right, up, down, startled by the sight

of herself, electrocuted into frightened, spastic jerks.

As Whale observes his star we see her spasms through his

eyes -- as a series of dissonant, line-jumping close-ups.

Whale scans the page of shooting script, the margin marked

in pencil: CU, MS, MLS.  Whale pencils in a bracket and

scribbles: CU a,b,c,d---MOS.

The assistant removes his mouthpiece.

INT. SOUNDSTAGE - DAY

The interior of Stage C is completely filled by the

laboratory set.  Electricians adjust the lights on the

wooden tower beside the Bride's table.  COLIN CLIVE (Dr.

Frankenstein) and ERNEST THESIGER (Dr. Pretorius) sit off to

the side, in full makeup and costume.  Clive mumbles

earnestly over his script.  Thesiger pinches his face over

the needle he dips in and out of an embroidery ring.

Whale comes on the set with Elsa on his arm.  She walks

regally beside him, the train of her long white robe thrown

over one arm.  There's a wolf whistle from overhead, and

applause, causing Elsa to curtsy to her admirers.  Thesiger

takes her hand, leans back to study her.

Clive walks over, glumly.

Whale sees through the excuse, rests an arm on Clive's

shoulder.

Clive grits his teeth and nods.  Whale positions them in

front of the upended table, Clive and Thesiger holding

Elsa's robe out by the hems.  The shadow of the sound boom

passes back and forth while they rehearse.

Elsa giggles.  Clive looks distraught -- which brings some

life to his stiffness.  Whale sees this, decides to tune it

higher.

Clive's distress reads clearly now.  He is twitchy and

alive.

He sits in the canvas director's chair, nods to the

assistant director.

The warning bell rings.

The lights sizzle and blaze.

A young man with a clapboard steps in front of the camera.

The Bride snaps her head in various directions.  Thesiger

slopes back, fingers splayed, intoxicated by his creation:

Whale sits with his legs crossed, jogging his raised foot as

if conducting the scene with his show.  Fully engaged,

intensely alive.  We CUT TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Whale glances at the clock, sees that it is 3:15.  He is

wide awake.  He reaches over, picks up the Luminal.

Whale reluctantly places the pill on his tongue and

swallows.  He rests his head on the pillow and stares at the

ceiling, where the reflection of the window sheers casts an

ever-shifting pattern of light and dark.  We move down to

reveal:

INT. PRISON CELL - NIGHT (BLACK & WHITE)

It's a cobblestone cell, a plaster set from "Bride of

Frankenstein."  Whale sits in a massive chair, straining

against thick iron chains, as a lightning storm rages

outside.  In the distance, heavy footsteps, coming closer,

until the cell door is filled with the silhouette of the

Monster.  Whale hardly dares to breathe as the Monster rips

off the door and enters the cell.

The Monster steps into the light, allowing us to see his

face for the first time.  It is Clay Boone, dressed in a

Marine parade uniform.  He uses his hedge clippers to cut

the chains from around Whale's chest.

Clay leans down and takes Whale in his arms, cradling him

like a child.  They move across the sound stage -- Clay

carefully sidestepping the lights and cables on the floor --

until they reach the next set:

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

Clay carries Whale past a painted backdrop of a stormy

English countryside.

INT. FRANKENSTEIN'S LAB - NIGHT

Whale lies on the Bride's table.  Clay pulls on a doctor's

smock, picks up a scalpel from a table covered with various

medical instruments.  he carves a thin circle around the top

of Whale's forehead.  Then, with one deft movement, he pops

off Whale's scalp and pulls out the brain.  It is

soot-covered, charred, used up.

Whale watches with detached fascination as Clay tosses it on

the floor, then takes a throbbing, luminous mass from a

tray.

Clay inserts the new brain into Whale's skull, sutures the

scalp back into place.  he fastens the conducting clamps

around Whale's temples, then throws the heavy circuit

breaker.  Lights throb with bursts of energy...loose sparks

crackle...rotary sparks create snapping circles of fire...as

the energy of the raging storm is harnessed into the

machinery.

Clay steps back to take in his handiwork.  A sudden look of

panic fills Whale's face.

Clay glances down at Whale, whose breathing is slowing.

Realizing that the new brain hasn't taken:

A serenity suffuses Whale's features as he stares up at the

pale flicker of lightning.  His breathing finally stops, his

face a tranquil mask of death.  We CUT TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Whale wakes with a start.  He checks the clock, sees that

it's past nine.  He presses an intercom button on the

bedside table.

Whale sits up, drinks in the sunlight.  He notices some

grass clippings and leaves scattered on the bedspread.

Whale turns and sees Clay lying next to him.  He gasps.

Clay's hands close around Whale's neck.  We CUT TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Whale opens his eyes groggily.  He scans the room in panic,

clearly unable to get his bearings.

Whale tries to stand but his legs give way beneath him.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BATHROOM - DAY (LATER)

Whale and Hanna stare straight out as she reaches down and

unbuttons the tiny buttons on his pajama fly.  Whale

supports himself with one hand on Hanna's shoulder as he

relieves himself with the other.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY (LATER)

Whale sits up in bed, staring dumbly at the morning paper.

Hanna reaches in to take away the breakfast tray.

A thin smile forms on Whale's face.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DAY

Clay prunes the roses on the front lawn.  Hanna appears,

frowning.

Hanna goes inside.  Clay rolls the mower down the path.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Clay knocks on the bottom of the Dutch door as he lifts the

latch and walks in.  He is wearing a fresh madras shirt.

He sits at the kitchen table.

She eyes him suspiciously, shrugs, pours a glass of tea.

Clay notices a Bible on the counter.

Hanna twists her head around with such an indignant look

that Clay bursts out laughing.  She realizes that she is

being teased.

Hanna stares at Clay until his smile fades.  She resumes her

chopping in silence.

She loses patience with Clay's blank look.

Clay slowly sits up.

Off in the distance, a throat loudly trumpets itself clear.

Clay gets up slowly, reluctant to leave the room.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Whale comes forward as Clay enters, offering a hand at the

end of a spindly wrist.

A hesitant smile from Clay.  Whale picks a stack of mail off

the table, rifles through envelopes.

He returns the stack to the table but holds on to a square

envelope.

Clay looks off while Whale opens the envelope.

He is examining a folded card.  He rubs a thumb over the

printed lettering.

His lips smack open in disgust.

He tosses the invitation on the table.

He holds out an open hand so that Clay can precede him into

the dining room.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY

Hanna sets down two steaming plates of omelettes.  Whale

hands a glass of red wine to Clay.

They both take a sip of wine.

Hanna nods, steals a glance at Clay as she leaves.

Whale gazes pointedly at Clay, who eats with his elbows on

the table, quickly bolting the hot omelette.

Clay looks up.

Whale tilts a scrutinizing eye at Clay.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - PANTRY - DAY (LATER)

Hanna carries the dirty dishes back to the kitchen.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY

Clay starts to bite the tip off a cigar.

Whale passes him a gold penknife.

Clay hands a clipped cigar back to Whale.

The other cigar crunches faintly between Clay's fingers.

Clay suddenly laughs.  Whale's smile deepens.

Whale continues to smile, slyly.

Clay has no answer.  He gives in with a sigh.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY

Clay sits sideways on the chair again.  Whale stands at the

easel.

Whale steps forward.

Whale's hands to in.  Clay's flesh tightens; he shrinks

back.  The hands stop, palms raised.

Whale's thumb and fingers unpluck buttons in midair.

Whale takes a step back.  His eyes are locked on Clay,

fascinated by his temper.

Whale glides behind the easel.  The pencils rattle in the

tray.

Clay glances out the window.  Feigning a merely casual

interest:

Whale backs away from the easel and stares at the paper with

a sour frown.

A shadow passes over Whale's eyes.  He presses two fingers

against his temple.

Whale stops himself.  He smiles gently at Clay.

Whale reaches into his pocket, takes out the bottle of

Luminal.

Whale moves across the room to the screen door.

Whale places a pill on his tongue and swallows.  He fixes

Clay with a pinched smile.

Clay sits uncomfortably in his chair.  His face flushes.

Clay explodes out of his chair, knocking over a small side

table.

He looms over Whale, whose breathing starts to quicken.

Before Whale can respond Clay storms out, nearly ripping the

screen door off its hinges.  Whale sits on the daybed, takes

a few quick breaths.  Suddenly the air is filled with the

sounds of people cavorting in the pool.

Whale looks up, sees a young man standing outside the screen

door.  It is now dark outside.

Whale offers a melancholy smile.

The man shrugs, disappears into the shadows.  We move

across the room and through the door...

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Whale sits in a director's chair, a martini in one hand, a

cigar in the other, a harmless old uncle watching young men

swagger and splash in the pool.

He glances over, sees Clay in plaid bathing trunks, sitting

apart from the others.  He is puffing on a Camel.

Clay ignores him.  Whale puts down his martini and cigar,

picks up a Polaroid camera.  He moves over to clay.

Whale removes Clay's cigarette, crushes it with his shoe.

Behind him, the pool is now a pit full of naked shadows.

Whale touches Clay's bare chest.  Clay grabs hold of his

wrist, causing the old man to yelp in pain.  In the pool,

the extras shriek in alarm.

Clay's hands close tightly around Whale's throat.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Whale's hands fly to his throat.  He opens his eyes and

gasps greedily for air, the young men's screams lingering

in the room.  There is a look of genuine terror on his

face.

EXT. BRENTWOOD HOUSE - YARD - DUSK

The sun goes down.  Clay wearily pushes his lawnmower,

struggling to concentrate on the darkened lawn.

EXT. BRENTWOOD HOUSE - BACK DOOR - NIGHT

The smug PROPERTY OWNER peers out at Clay from behind a

screen door.

Clay takes a deep breath.  He can't afford to get angry.

The owner flicks on the light.

INT. HARRY'S BEACHCOMBER - NIGHT

Clay presses through the Saturday night crowd.  Clay cranes

his neck to scan the crowd.

Harry smiles pointedly at Clay, hands him the beer.

Clay turns his back on the bar.  He sees Dwight moving

through the crowd.

Dwight nods, a little coolly.

Dwight's WIFE, a pert, steely-eyed brunette, places a firm

hand on his shoulder.  Dwight shrugs, heads toward the door.

Clay turns.  A pretty, too-tan BLONDE WOMAN in her early 30s

is standing at the end of the bar, eyeing Clay.  He lifts

his glass and she responds with an open smile.

EXT. CLAY'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Clay and the woman go at it, their shadows visible through

the glass louvers.

INT. CLAY'S TRAILER - BATHROOM - DAY

Clay tugs on a cord and the harsh overhead fluorescent

buzzes to life.  He splashes his face with water, then

catches his reflection in the mirror.

EXT. SANTA MONICA LIBRARY - DAY

Clay parks outside the local branch of the public library.

INT. READING ROOM - DAY

Clay leafs through an oversized folio, bound copies of

1936.  "Interview With a Passing Whale."  There is a picture

of Whale, captioned "Famous British Director."  A LIBRARIAN

approaches with more leatherbound books.

Clay takes the books, opens one.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Whale eats lunch off a TV tray.  His attention remains

focused on "Queen for a Day" as Hanna clomps into the room

behind him.

Whale turns.  His face registers surprise when he sees Clay.

Hanna retreats toward the kitchen.  Clay steps tentatively

into the room.

Whale holds up two fingers, affects an American accent.

Clay smiles.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY

Whale and Boone are back in their familiar positions.  An

empty glass of beer sits on the floor next to Clay.

Whale nods, sensing that he's touched a sore spot.

Clay breaks his pose to turn and look at Whale.

Whale clears his throat, bored by his standard line.

Now he's talking only to himself.

Whale looks up at Clay, stares at him.

EXT. TRENCHES - DAY (1917)

LEONARD BARNETT, 19, boyish and handsome, peers into a

periscope.  Whale stands beside him, pointing out landmarks

on the bleak landscape.

Whale reaches over and lays his arm across Barnett's

shoulder.  Barnett smiles timidly at him.  We CUT TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - STUDIO - DAY

Whale leans forward, completely disoriented.  His eyes fix

on Clay, the white eyebrows screwed down, until he is able

to recognize the face.

Whale stands, his legs shaky.

Whale stands over Clay.  His pale face turns left, right,

looking at Clay with one cold eye, then the other.  Clay

returns the gaze, worried for Whale.

Whale turns away.  He yanks out a handkerchief.

He sits on the daybed and bends over, covering both eyes

with the handkerchief.

His pained eyes focus on Clay, and soften.

Clay gets up and goes to the sink.

Clay hands him the water.

Whale sets the glass down and sits with his head lowered,

his body folded like a bundle of sticks.

Whale shakes his head sadly.  He gazes up at Clay, sees the

disappointment on his face.

Whale smiles gently.

EXT. OCEAN PROMENADE - DUSK

The sun is setting over the Pacific.  Clay stands in a phone

booth on the strand.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - DUSK

Clay smiles anxiously as the call connects.

Clay pauses as his mother shoots questions at him.

We hear the phrase: "She's out, Clay."  Clay closes his eyes

as his mother rambles on.

Clay tries to stay calm as his mother berates him for not

staying in touch.

Before Clay can protest we hear: "Hold on."  Clay glances

out at couples strolling up the promenade.  An operator

interrupts, says: "One dollar for the next three minutes."

Clay deposits two quarters before his mother returns.

"He's busy, Clay."

The operator comes on again, asking for fifty more cents.

Clay stares at the quarters in his hand.

Clay listens as his mother prattles on, until the connection

is broken and the phone goes dead.  Clay steps out of the

booth, takes a deep breath of ocean air.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Whale and Hanna go through the closet together.

Whale stops, turns to Hanna.

The naughty remark is met with a solemn stare.  Whale

reaches up, chooses a lightweight blue suit.

The phone rings.  Hanna hurries to answer it.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - MAIN HALL - DAY

Hanna speaks softly in Hungarian.  Whale points upstairs to

let her know he will look for the hat himself.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY

Whale opens the closet door and takes down a stack of

hatboxes from the overhead shelf.  He opens the first box,

takes out a rubbery wad of heavy fabric with two round

windows like eyes.  It's a gas mask.  We CUT TO:

INT. TRENCHES - NIGHT (1917)

The night sky explodes with light and smoke.  Whale moves

calmly through the chaos, trying to maintain a modicum of

order among the troops.

At the end of the line, young Barnett is struggling with his

straps.  Mustard gas is starting to stream into the trench.

Whale slips the mask over Barnett's face, fastens it.  He

slides his own mask into position moments before the trench

is obliterated by the yellowish smoke.  We CUT TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY

Hanna stands in the door with a forlorn frown.

Hanna lifts the lid of an unopened box to show him the

missing fedora.

Hanna holds out the box for the gas mask.  Whale gives it a

long, final look, then drops it in the box.

Hanna clamps the lid on the box.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - FOYER - DAY

Hanna has opened the door.  At the end of the hall,

silhouetted against the bright afternoon sky, is Clay.  His

shoulders fill the doorway.  The top of his head is

perfectly flat.

Clay steps into the light.  His khaki pants are clean and

pressed.  A blue knit shirt fits his muscles snugly.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - GARAGE - DAY

Whale crosses to the passenger side of the Chrysler.

Clay squeezes behind the wheel, shifts the seat back,

explores switches.  The vinyl top pops up and folds

backward.

Whale gets in.  Clay starts the engine and backs out.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DAY

Hanna stands at the front door, hands tangled in her apron.

Whale tugs his hat brim at her as the car swings around the

driveway.

Whale smiles at the wide open sky overhead.  Clay steps on

the gas and the Chrysler takes off.

EXT. CUKOR HOUSE - DAY

The party is clearly audible from the road, where Clay has

squeezed the Chrysler into a long row of shiny cars nuzzling

the high brick wall.  Whale puts his dark glasses on.

They walk up the steep road to the gatehouse.

A WOMAN at the gate inspects the invitation, waves them

through.

EXT. CUKOR HOUSE - LAWN - DAY

A sunny patio with hedges and statues.  Wickets and stakes

have been set up for a game of croquet, but only a handful

of very tanned children strut around with mallets.

Whale scans the crowd.

Clay follows Whale toward a trellis alcove covered in ivy.

A handful of people grin at the mismatched couple who stand

in the shade: a homely older man in glasses and a pretty

woman in a white dress with polka dots.  GEORGE CUKOR and

PRINCESS MARGARET.

Whale forgets to remove his hat when he comes forward.

Before he can give Cukor their names Princess Margaret's

polite smile bursts open in a joyful display of teeth.

She seizes Whale's hand in her little white gloves.

Standing beside him, Clay is clearly impressed that Whale

knows a princess.

Whale realizes she's mistaken him for someone else.  He tugs

his sunglasses down his nose so she can see his eyes.

Whale attempts to chuckle while he fights a feeling of

humiliation.  He turns to Cukor for help.

Whale feels the sting.  He turns to Clay.

Clay steps forward to shake hands.

Cukor's face goes blank with indignation.

Whale narrows his eyes at Cukor and sharpens his smile.

Cukor puffs out his chest, quivers a bulbous lower lip at

Whale.

He leads Clay away and an American couple promptly crowd in

to take their place.  Striding through the garden, Whale is

obviously pleased with himself.

Whale leads Clay to a tented bar.  Across the way, David

Lewis has come through the gate with a WOMAN on his arm.

People look discreetly, not at David but at the woman,

lightly veiled in a scarf and sunglasses.

Clay watches in amazement as ELIZABETH TAYLOR waves to

someone and pipes out a happy hello.  She hurriedly unties

her scarf, thrusts it at David and runs off on tiptoes to

embrace a woman.

David glances around while he slips the scarf into a coat

pocket.  He sees Whale looking at him.  He puts on a tight

smile and strolls across the patio.

The waiter arrives with their drinks.  Only when Clay takes

his glass of beer does David see that Whale is not alone.

David freezes.  Whale lifts his martini glass at Clay and

takes a sip.

Clay clears his throat, eager to escape this domestic

squabble.

He hurries off.

David is looking over Whale's shoulder.

Whale nods, watches David stroll over to the pool and greet

a gaggle of executives.  Whale drifts toward some deck

chairs at the far end of the croquet lawn.  He sits, takes a

sip of his drink.  Suddenly a high-pitched giggle pierces

the air.

Whale looks out to see Edmund Kay, his interviewer from

several weeks ago, marching across the lawn.

Whale tries to do just that, but finds himself caught in the

chair.  He is stumbling to his feet when Kay returns with

Elsa Lanchester, 55, at his side.

She takes Whale's hand, with a look of deep concern and

sympathy.  Kay races off again.

She swats aside the compliment and gestures at the chair.

Kay returns, accompanied by a stopped, gray-haired man with

a long rectangular face and wary, heavy-lidded eyes.

Karloff, age 70, comes reluctantly, followed by his niece

ALICE, a bashful young woman who carried a blanket-wrapped

bundle.

His huge hand lifts the blanket in Alice's arms, revealing a

bald infant with enormous blue eyes.  Karloff gurgles and

coos at the child.

Whale looks up and discovers Clay standing a few feet behind

Karloff.  He is ogling two bosomy actresses who are

listening intently to the monocled British consul.

Whale's eyes try to focus Karloff and Clay together, his

once and future monsters.  Kay shouts to a passing

photographer carrying a bulky Speed Graphic.

The man scans the scene for a famous face.

Clay looks up when he hears Kay identify Karloff.

Karloff and Elsa drift into position next to Whale.  The

flash goes off, a snap and a crunch of light.  Whale cringes

in pain.

Another flash.  From Whale's perspective, the bulb resembles

nothing so much as the translucent tube of electrical

current from Dr. Frankenstein's laboratory.  Whale

concentrates on his smile as another snap of light stabs his

brain.  He clutches Elsa Lanchester's hand.

A sharp nod from Whale.  The photographer motions to

Karloff's niece.

Alice hands over the baby.  Karloff gently cradles the

child.  Whale stands on his left, Elsa on his right.  They

all smile at the baby, who gurgles and points up.  Whale

follows the baby's gaze to the sky, where a large kite rocks

and strains in a furious electrical storm.

The camera flashes once, then again.

Whale glances up -- the kite is gone.  Thunder rumbles as

the group starts to disperse.  Whale nods to the faces

exchanging good-byes.

He strolls off, clucking and cooing at his baby.

He goes off with the photographer.  Elsa kisses Whale on the

cheek.

Finally Whale is alone.  He staggers to the deck chair and

lowers himself sideways into the lawn chair.

Whale gazes up at Clay.

Clay nods.  Whale smiles at him.

Across the lawn, conversation has stopped.  Birdlike shrieks

come from all directions.

The rain is only a flickering of air, but people are jumping

and shrieking, throwing coats over their heads as they dash

toward the house.

He takes Whale under the arm, helps him up and escorts him

to a small tent.  On the patio, everyone shoves and squeezes

to get through the one open door.

Whale stares out, hypnotized by the deluge.  From his POV,

we see a young man step into the rain.  Whale squints, is

finally able to identify the man as Leonard Barnett.

Whale's eyes follow Barnett as he emerges onto a new

landscape, a scarred and barren battlefield.  As the storm

continues to rage:

Whale shifts his gaze to Clay.  He takes a moment to orient

himself.

Whale adjusts the brim of his hat and steps into the

downpour.  Clay has no choice except to follow.  They walk

briskly, the minute splashes on Whale's hat forming a

ghostly aura of spray.

INT. CAR - DAY

Whale opens the door and climbs in next to Clay.  The roof

slowly closes over them.

Clay glances over, sees Whale sitting very wet and rigid,

staring straight ahead.

Whale blinks, slowly turns.  There is a cracked look in his

eyes.

Clay smiles, starts to back the car out.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - FOYER - DUSK

The hallway is pitch-dark as Whale and Clay enter.

No response.

Whale goes squashing down the hall.  Clay remains just

inside the open door, prying off his shoes and peeling off

his socks.  He follows Whale into:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DUSK

Whale stands over the table with his jaw open.

He slides a note to Clay.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Whale stands just inside the closet, buttoning a crisp white

shirt.  He reaches for a red bow tie, closes the closet

door.  In the mirror, Leonard Barnett stands behind him, in

uniform.  Whale's eyes twinkle in surprise.  He drapes the

tie around his collar.

Barnett smiles his approval.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT

Clay opens the bathroom door, calls out.

No answer.  He goes to the top of the stairs and calls out.

Again, nothing.  Rain ticks against the windows.  Clay goes

down the stairs.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Whale fiddles with the knot of his tie.

Barnett sits on the edge of the bed now.  He smiles, a bit

sadly.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT

There's glow coming from the bedroom, and the sound of

Whale's voice.

Clay steps slowly toward the door, pushes it open.  He peers

in.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Whale pulls on a blazer.

Whale jumps.  He slaps a hand over his chest, twists around,

sees Clay.

Whale crosses to the closet.  Barnett is nowhere to be seen.

Clay chuckles.  Whale smiles.

He takes a robe from a hook on the closet door.  Clay tries

it on but it won't close over the towel.

Whale opens a drawer, takes out a crewneck sweater.

Clay pulls the sweater over his head.

Clay notices a framed drawing on the desk.

He hands the sketch to Clay, who stares down at the famous

flat head, hooded eyes, bolted neck of the Monster.

Clay puts down the sketch, starts into the hall.  Whale

turns back, sees Barnett standing by the window.  Whale

flips off the light and closes the door.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Clay sits at the kitchen table.  Whale opens the

refrigerator and brings out two plates wrapped in wax paper,

and a bottle of beer for Clay.  He pours himself a shot of

Scotch from a decanter and sits down.

Clay munches on his sandwich.  Whale pours himself another

Scotch, takes a sip.

Clay stops chewing.  He stares down at his plate.

He takes a deep breath, looks up at Whale.

Clay downs his beer, refills the glass.

Whale gazes sympathetically at Clay.

A look of surprise crosses Whale's face.

He breaks into a crooked smile.

Whale lifts his glass in a toast.  Clay empties his glass of

beer.  He motions toward the decanter.

He hands the decanter to Clay.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Clay sits in a straight-backed chair, smoking a cigarette

and sipping his Scotch.  Whale sketches from a wing chair

across the room.

Whale looks up.

Whale's gaze remains dreamy and preoccupied as SOUNDS of

battle fill the room.  A relentless rat-a-tat of gunfire.

The whistling of bombs.  The tortured wailing of dying men.

Whale stands, moves over to the window.

Whale gazes out at the storm.  From his POV, we see a

scarred and barren landscape, illuminated by occasional

flashes of lightning.

EXT. TRENCHES - NIGHT (1917)

We race along the open trench with Whale, the darkened sky

intermittently punctured by bursts of gunfire.  He reaches

the periscope, pulls an enlisted man off it.  From his POV,

we see Barnett and McGill dodging bullets as they attempt to

make their way back.

McGill leaps over the barbed wire of a forward trench.

Barnett follows.  Just as his feet leave the ground his

chest is riddled by a fresh round of gunfire.  Whale's eyes

snap closed, trying to obliterate what they've just seen.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Whale stares out impassively.

Clay's eyes are filled with pity.

Whale begins to hum, a tune we have heard before:

Whale remains perfectly still, staring out the window.  Clay

deliberates a moment, then puts down his drink next to the

decanter of Scotch.  He stands and yanks the neck of the

sweater over his face, then tosses it on the sofa.  Whale

blinks at the reflection in the glass, not yet

understanding.

Clay pulls at the knot, lets go of the towel.  He defiantly

parks his hands on his hips.

Whale continues to stare at the reflection, his back to

Clay, his eyes wide and expressionless.  He turns slowly,

fully expecting the vision to evaporate.  When he sees that

Clay is truly naked he mutters softly under his breath.

Whale doesn't respond.  Finally he opens his mouth to take a

breath.

Whale moves abruptly across the room.  He walks past Clay.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Whale passes quickly through the dining room and out to the

kitchen.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - GARAGE - NIGHT

Whale reaches for the hatbox, which sits on top of a garbage

can.  Suddenly a large hand appears on the box.  Whale gasps

when a flash of lightning reveals the face of the Monster.

The Monster growls out an inarticulate greeting.  He picks

up the box and hands it to Whale.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Whale removes the lid, sets the hatbox on the sofa.

Whale steps back.  Clay takes the box and covers his lap

with it.  He lifts out the gas mask.

Clay fits the mask on the top of his head and draws it down.

The living room turns brownish yellow in the thick glass

goggles.

Whale is suddenly behind him.  Clay's vision is enclosed in

two round windows, so he can't see Whale buckling the second

strap.

Mouth muffled by the inhalator, Clay hears his voice from

inside his head.  Whale comes around to stand in front of

him.  He grins as he steps back to examine Clay.  Clay

nervously taps his knees with his hands.

Clay raises his voice to make himself heard.  He reaches

back to undo the buckles.

Whale steps in past the goggles.

Clay drops his hands so Whale can undo the buckles.  But

nothing happens.  Clay turns left and right.

Two hands grip Clay's shoulders.

Whale's hands squeeze.  Clay grabs the frame of his seat, to

stop his arms from automatically swinging a fist.  Whale's

hand slides over Clay's shoulder to his arm, caressing the

tattoo.  Clay jerks his shoulder to shake Whale off.

Whale presses his lips to Clay's tattoo.  Clay's muscles

tense from head to toe.

Whale's tongue moves down Clay's arm.

The hand slides over Clay's stomach toward his lap.  The

tattooed arm swings backward, slamming an elbow against

Whale's skull.  Clay jumps from the chair, knocking into an

end table.  The glass and crystal decanter fall to the

floor.  The lamp spills over and the room goes dark.

Clay's ankle is caught by the sofa leg and he hits the

floor, jamming the inhalator against his mouth.  He quickly

gets up, on his knees and elbows, pulling at the mask.

Flashes of lightning strobe the room as Whale collapses over

Clay's back and holds on.

A strap breaks.  Clay rips the mask off.

Whale's hand squeezes between Clay's legs.

Clay jabs with his elbow, flipping Whale on his back.  His

body straddles Whale's and pins him, face to face.

His hands clasp Clay's hips.  Clay's fist opens as it comes

down; he slaps Whale across the face.

Clay whacks Whale's face again.

Clay snatches Whale's wrist before it can touch his crotch.

With his other hand he picks up the heavy crystal decanter.

Whale tilts his face up for another blow.

Clay freezes.  He stares down at the old man with white hair

and wild eyes lying beneath him.

Whale's eyes glimmer in the sporadic bursts of lightning.

Clay turns to the sketch pad, which lies on the floor next

to Whale.  The page is filled with nothing but doodles and

scrawls.

Clay's breathing comes in quick, panicked bursts.

Clay's body starts to tremble.

Clay lets out a howl -- his shoulders heave and shake.

He climbs off Whale, crawls away, his body collapsing in

wracking, anguished sobs.  Whale opens his eyes, gazes at

Clay.

He forces himself to his feet.

Whale picks up the towel and moves over to Clay.

Whale places the towel around Clay's shoulders.

Clay doesn't look up.

Whale starts slowly down the hall.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Whale sits on the edge of the bed, tugs the bowtie from his

collar.  Clay taps on the door, opens it.

He lifts his chin and points to his collar.

Clay leans in to open the button.  His face is only six

inches from Whale's.

Clay doesn't answer.  Whale turns, breaking their shared

gaze.

Whale hauls his legs up and stretches out on the bed.

Whale smiles fondly at him.

Clay pulls the door shut and it clicks.  He stands there a

moment.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Clay shakes open a bedsheet and wraps himself in it.

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Clay finds a pack of cigarettes on the floor and lights one,

then sets the furniture back up.  He picks up the gas mask

from beside the sofa, shoves it into its box.

Clay sits in the wing-back chair, props his feet on the

hassock, adjusting the sheet around his shoulders.  We CUT

TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Whale bolts up in bed.  An electrical storm flashes and

cracks in the window.

Whale gets out of bed, stares outside.  From his POV, the

lawn is a barren slope covered with stumps.

Whale turns on the desk lamp, sits.  He pulls out a piece

of paper.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD - NIGHT

We're back to the scene that opened the movie, a flat-topped

creature stumbling through the mud.  A flash of lightning

reveals Clay's face.  He turns, signals for Whale to follow

him.  Whale joins Clay on a slight rise of ground, the rim

of a crater.  Clay points down into it.

EXT. CRATER - NIGHT

The crater is full of bodies gathered around a pool of

water.  Whale stumbles down, reaches the bottom and bends

over the nearest corpse in khaki.  It is Leonard Barnett.

There are no wounds on his body, no rips or gaping holes.

His eyes are closed in dreamless sleep.

Whale looks up and sees that Clay is gone.  The only other

living creature is an owl, which blinks wearily at him.

Whale lies down, finding a spot next to Barnett.  He takes a

last breath and closes his eyes.  We CUT TO:

INT. WHALE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

A roar of bells blasts Clay awake.  The telephone is

ringing.  A hard pair of shoes thunder out to answer it.

Clay blinks at the sight of Hanna in black dress and white

apron, chattering on the phone by the far wall.

She scoldingly cuts her eyes at Clay.

She hangs up and faces Clay with a stern frown.

She stomps into the kitchen.  Clay gets up, slips on his

undershorts.  He's zipping up his chinos when she comes out

again with a breakfast tray.  She hands him a cup of coffee.

She marches around the corner towards Whale's bedroom.  Clay

hears her knocking on a door.

Clay pulls on his shirt.  Hanna comes back around the

corner.

She goes to the foot of the stairs and shouts:

Hanna starts up the stairs.

Clay reaches for his socks when he notices an envelope on

the floor next to the chair.  He picks it up.  On the front

is scrawled the word 'CLAYTON'.  Clay opens the envelope.

Inside is Whale's original sketch of the Monster's head.  He

turns it over.  There is a message written on the back.

Clay drops the sketch, looks out.  He sees something.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY

Clay crosses the patio, hurtles down the slope.

EXT. WHALE'S HOUSE - POOL - DAY

Clay leaps headfirst into the water.  Whale rests lightly on

his back, with an upward sway of straight white hair.  Clay

hauls the body toward the side.

He gets an arm around Whale's chest and heaves the body over

the curb.  he climbs out, drags the body forward to rest in

the grass.  He grabs the wrist.  Nothing.

Clay straddles Whale's thighs and applies pressure on his

rib cage.  But it's no use.  Clay sits up and takes a deep

breath.

Hanna comes down the path, her run slowing to a walk.  She

stares at Clay.

She waves a folded piece of paper.

Clay slowly stands up.  Hanna looks around in panic.

They both hesitate, looking down at Whale.  Then Clay drags

the body parallel with the pool.  Hanna stoops over to

adjust the collar of Whale's shirt.

She nods to Clay.  He rolls the body over and it splashes on

its belly.  It bounces a moment in the waves of the splash,

then begins to sink.  As it drops, the air in the chest

slowly flips the body around.

Looking up at them with open eyes, Whale sinks backward into

the thickening light.  His arms trail upward and the hands

lightly flutter as if waving good-bye.  The melancholy sound

of a solo violin pierces the silence as we CUT TO:

EXT./INT. BLIND MAN'S HUT - NIGHT

A black-and-white scene from "Bride of Frankenstein."  The

old BLIND MAN plays a mournful lullaby on his violin while

the MONSTER listens outside, moved by the music.  He smashes

open the door of the hut in an effort to get closer to the

soul-soothing sound.  The blind man stops playing, looks up.

The Monster attempts to communicate, manages only a

plaintive moan.  The blind man stands.

The Monster holds out his burned hands.

The old man touches the Monster, who recoils with a

defensive growl.

INT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - NIGHT (1972)

MICHAEL BOONE, 10, lies on the living room carpet, staring

raptly at the movie playing on the large Zenith console.

The house is small but tidy and comfortable.

On the tv screen, the old man starts to cry, then collapses

onto the Monster's chest.  A thick tear rolls down the

Monster's cheek.

Clay Boone sits on the sofa, a baby on his lap.  He's 40

now, his hair starting to thin but still closely cropped at

the top and sides.

On the tv, daylight fills the hut.  The blind man and the

Monster share a meal.

He takes the old man's hand.

The blind man nods.  On the sofa, Clay watches his son watch

the movie.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (LATER)

A color promo for "Chiller Theater" fills the screen.  Clay

turns off the set.

Michael groans, slowly stands.

Michael glances skeptically at his father.

Clay unfolds Whale's sketch of the Monster, hands it to his

son.

Michael turns over the sketch.  On the back, scrawled in

block letters: "TO CLAYTON BOONE -- FRIEND?"

Clay nods.  At the same time, his wife DANA appears in the

doorway.  A pretty, cheerful woman in her mid-30s.

Clay kisses the top of his son's head.

EXT. CLAY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Clay carries a large metal bin down the tidy lawn.  The sky

momentarily brightens with a silent flash of lightning.

Clay gazes up at the electrical storm.  He glances back at

his house, sees Dana cradling the baby in an upstairs

window.

The skies open with a shattering crash of thunder.  Clay

tilts up his face, drinks in the cool rain.  Then he extends

his arms and staggers along the sidewalk, imitating the

Monster's famous lurch.

We PULL BACK, revealing a sleepy neighborhood of small

houses and neat lawns, until Clay is only a small dot in the

landscape.

FADE OUT.

