June 2003

OPENING TITLE.

"ALTHOUGH THIS MOTION PICTURE IS INSPIRED BY A TRUE STORY,

CERTAIN CHARACTERS AND EVENTS ARE FICTIONAL."

SUPER: 'SEPTEMBER 1973'.

INT. PHIL KAUFMAN'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

A phone rings in the dark. A little light falls from the

open window, illuminating an old bakelite telephone. It

sits on a small table alongside a large amount of empty

bottles and a couple of overflowing ashtrays.

EXT. PHIL'S TRIKE. NIGHT

A three wheeled motorcycle is being driven through the

night at great speed. The trike is moving very quickly,

its headlights cutting through the darkness, its wheels

sending a spray of sand flying towards us, as the driver

fights to keep it on the road. This is PHIL KAUFMAN, and

he's in a hurry.

INT. JOSHUA TREE INN - ROOM 8. NIGHT

Two figures are struggling on the floor. The male is

naked. The woman sits astride him, her movements urgent,

her breath fast. They appear to be having sex.

EXT. TRIKE. DAWN

The Trike cuts through the night, and we pull back to show

desert, more desert, and then... a giant bright, flickering

neon sign: 'Welcome to the Joshua Tree Inn'.

INT. PHIL KAUFMAN'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

That phone - still ringing; shrill, insistent. There is a

bed next to the table. It is covered in clothes, but there

is also a man's shape, which now moves.

INT. JOSHUA TREE INN - ROOM 8. NIGHT

A little more light, and it now appears as if our man and

woman are struggling. There is fear on her face.

INT. PHIL KAUFMAN'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

Still that insistent ringing, and the covers suddenly fly

off the bed. We see the man from behind as he shakes the

sleep away and looks for the damn phone.

INT. JOSHUA TREE INN - ROOM 8. NIGHT

The woman is screaming now, and banging on the man's chest

with her fists. He is motionless underneath her.

EXT. OUTSIDE JOSHUA TREE INN. DAWN

The Trike skids to a halt amid a cloud of dust and the

driver leaps off. He runs at the door, throwing it open in

one movement, disappearing into the room. A broken striped

'No Entry - Police' band flutters to the ground.

INT. PHIL KAUFMAN'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

The man finally answers the phone.   At last the ringing

stops.

EXT. OUTSIDE JOSHUA TREE INN - ROOM 8. NIGHT

The door bounces back open, and we can see the Phil walking

quickly through the room.

As he searches, we hear:

The man glances into the bathroom and opens some drawers.

He looks under the beds.

CON TINUE D:

He checks on top of the wardrobe.

He picks up a sheet of paper from the bedside table and

glances at it. He turns and walks past us to the car and

for the first time we see Phil Kaufman's face.

EXT. JOSHUA TREE HOSPITAL. MORNING

The Trike skids to a halt outside the small white hospital.

There are a couple of press vehicles parked outside, and a

reporter is recording a piece to camera in the background.

Phil sits for a moment, and then opens the door and walks

to the entrance.

INT. JOSHUA TREE HOSPITAL. MORNING - MOMENTS LATER

We move through the reception area up to the nurses'

station. Phil is in conversation with a large woman in a

nurse's uniform.

They stare at each other.

CON TINUE D:

She looks carefully at the pyjamas which peek out from

under the shabby overcoat. His hair is on end. He is

wearing biker boots and is holding an unlit but half-smoked

cigar.

Phil clears his throat.

The big nurse smiles mirthlessly.

A beat.

She turns away.

The nurse turns and marches down the corridor. Phil waits

until she's gone and then walks through a door marked

'Admittance only to Authorized Hospital Staff'.

INT. HOSPITAL LOCKER ROOM. MORNING

Phil slips off his overcoat and stuffs it into the trash.

He tosses away the unlit cigar, grabs a white coat from a

hook and puts it on. He walks out through another door.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR. MORNING

Phil wanders down the corridor, glancing into rooms and

checking signs. He pushes open a door marked 'Pathology'.

INT. HOSPITAL PATHOLOGY LAB. MORNING

The room is empty, except for a couple of covered bodies on

trolleys. Phil checks under the first sheet, and recoils

at whatever it is which lies beneath.

He walks over to the next gurney and lifts the sheet.   He

stares down at the body, visibly moved.

He stands for a moment, gripping the gurney and looking

down at his friend. Then he snaps out of it.

He wheels the gurney towards the door.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR. MORNING

Phil wheels the gurney down the corridor towards the exit.

A doctor in green scrubs approaches and glances down at a

clipboard.

The doctor reads the tag on the body's toe.

CON TINUE D:

The doctor grabs the end of the gurney. Phil tugs and the

doctor tugs back. After a moment, Phil sighs and shakes

his head in frustration.

The doctor holds up his clipboard.

He slips through the exit. The doctor waits awkwardly     for

a few seconds, and then pushes open the door.

He glances around in surprise, but there is no-one in

sight.

EXT. DESERT. MORNING

Phil's trike accelerates as it approaches a T junction.      To

the right the sign points to 'Joshua Tree Town', to the

left 'Los Angeles'. The trike doesn't even slow as it

skids left, sending a spray of sand and gravel flying

across the road.

NB. There will be several shots of Phil driving through

the desert, set to music.

EXT. PHIL'S STREET. DAY

The Trike pulls up outside a rambling old house. Two

enormous plaster eagles flank the front door, a giant

Harley Davidson sign hangs from the roof, and there's a six

foot flashing neon star in the front window. Phil gets

out, walks up to the door and pulls some keys out of his

pocket.

INT. PHIL'S SITTING ROOM. DAY

Phil walks into the room and pours himself a drink. He

slumps onto the couch, takes a sip and closes his eyes. We

see movement behind him, as an attractive girl slips

through a door and approaches Phil from behind. This is

SUSIE, and she puts her hands over his eyes.

Susie leans over the back of the chair and gives Phil a

long slow kiss. She jumps over the couch and resumes

kissing, this time more passionately. Phil tries to pull

away with little success.

Susie continues regardless, Phil is now finding it hard to

resist. He eventually gives in, and they begin to kiss

passionately.

INT. PHIL'S KITCHEN. DAY

Phil and Susie are sitting at the kitchen table.   He takes

a drag from her cigarette and passes it back.

CON TINUE D:

They sit quietly for a moment.      Then:

She sighs, and stands up.

Susie disappears through the door. Phil's shoulders sag

and he slumps against the wall. Then Susie reappears with

a bottle of Jack Daniels and a couple of glasses. She

pours out two generous measures and hands one to Phil.

After a moment, he gets up and follows her out of the room.

INT. PHIL'S SITTING ROOM. DAY

Susie guides Phil to a chair and sits him down.

She crosses to a record player and turns it on, pausing to

let down the blind on the way back. 'In My Hour of

Darkness'(or similar music) fills the room.

A) PHIL TAKES A DRINK.

B) GIRL IN TEARS TO CAM OUTSIDE THE JOSHUA TREE MOTEL:

CON TINUE D:

C) MUSIC 'EXPERT' ON CHAT SHOW

D) PHIL TAKES ANOTHER DRINK.      HE MAY BE CRYING.

E) HIPPIE TO CAM FROM A STREET IN LA:

F) PHIL SLEEPS, AND THE GLASS SLIPS FROM HIS HAND.

G) REPORTER TO CAM FROM OUTSIDE JOSHUA TREE HOSPITAL:

We are back in Phil's sitting room. Fade up on the music,

to match the reporter's words, as Gram's voice fills the

room: (or similar music).

CON TINUE D:

Susie tenderly throws a blanket over the sleeping Phil as

the record ends. She turns the light off and the room goes

dark.

INT. PHIL'S SITTING ROOM. DAY

Susie walks in with a coffee. She sits beside Phil and

strokes his head until he wakes. She kisses him and passes

him the cup.

He sits up and stretches. She leans over to kiss him, then

stands and starts to tidy. He watches her. She picks up

some clothing from near his chair and moves away. He drops

another piece of clothing on the same spot. She says

nothing and picks it up. He takes a sock off and drops it.

It has stopped being a game and started being a statement.

She picks the sock up and drops it in his lap. He pushes

it back onto the floor. She opens her arms and everything

falls to the floor. She walks out of the room and into the

kitchen. He follows.

INT. PHIL'S KITCHEN. DAY

Susie leans on the table, staring out of the window.   Phil

walks up behind her.

She turns and walks round to face him.

CON TINUE D:

Susie walks out of the room.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET. DAY

A suburban street of small, neat bungalows. We move down

the street, past house and identical house, until we rest

outside another that is identical to the rest. The front

door opens, and a nondescript man emerges, carrying a small

overnight bag. He carefully locks the door and walks down

the path to where a cab waits. We can clearly see 'New

Orleans Taxi' marked on the door.

This is STANLEY PARSONS, Gram's father.

INT. PHIL'S SITTING ROOM. DAY

There is a loud banging on the front door. Phil glances

out of the window, and looks momentarily puzzled. He opens

the door, and a beautiful woman stands on the step.

CON TINUE D:

She notices Susie standing behind Phil.

Barbara walks past them into the kitchen.      Susie looks

quizzically at Phil.

Barbara calls out from the kitchen.

Susie raises an eyebrow at Phil.

Phil points at his temple as if to say she's nuts.

Barbara walks back into the hall.

Barbara lights a cigarette.

She waits for him to speak.

She holds up an old piece of writing paper.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Phil reaches for it, but Barbara snatches it away.

She reads it out.

Phil looks surprised.

Barbara gives a wry smile.

Phil shakes his head.

CON TINUE D: (3)

Barbara leans forward until their noses are almost

touching.

Barbara pushes past Phil who gives no resistance. She

walks straight over to the couch and starts pulling up the

cushions. Susie moves to stop her, but Phil holds her back

and lets Barbara carry on.

INT. PHIL'S LOUNGE. DAY

Phil and Susie sit on the sofa, an island of calm in a sea

of chaos. Around them, the floor is covered with papers,

clothing, empty record covers, torn open cushions and

books. A broken drawer is propped against the table. A

lampshade hangs crazily from its bearings, throwing strange

shadows around the room. Suddenly, Susie gets up and kicks

a cushion across the room.

Phil stares at her.

He continues to look at her oddly.

CON TINUE D:

He disappears into the kitchen.

INT. JOSHUA TREE FUNERAL HOME. DAY

A man with glasses and an ill-fitting black suit does some

paperwork. He is surrounded by coffins displaying garish

'special offer' price tickets. The phone rings, and the

undertaker takes his time answering it.

INT. PHIL'S KITCHEN. DAY

Phil is holding the phone.         He frowns.

INT. JOSHUA TREE FUNERAL HOME. DAY

We hear the rest of Phil's mutter from the phone in the

undertaker's hand.

INT. PHIL'S KITCHEN. DAY

Phil straightens up.         He speaks curtly.

INT. JOSHUA TREE FUNERAL HOME. DAY

Again, we hear Phil's voice trumpeting out of the phone.

The undertaker changes his tone.

CON TINUE D:

He puts down the phone and flicks through a big book.    He

purses his lips. He wipes his nose with a white silk

handkerchief. Then he picks up the phone.

Mutter.

No mutter.

INT. PHIL'S KITCHEN. DAY

The phone sits on the table but the room is empty.

Susie walks in, looks around, and leaves.

EXT. PHIL'S DRIVEWAY. DAY

Phil is lying down in the back of Susie's station wagon,

his feet sticking out of the back. Susie comes out of the

house carrying the guitar, and sits on the steps, where she

watches him. After a minute:

Susie is confused.

CON TINUE D:

No answer.      Phil continues to check out the inside of her

car.

Without a word, Susie gets up and walks into the house.

Phil lies still. After a moment, she reappears with her

bag. She flounces theatrically past him and opens the car

door. Phil gets out of the back.

She gets into the car and slams the door. She starts the

engine, and Phil stands back, but the car doesn't move.

After a moment the window winds down.

She gives him a 'so there' smile.

She drives away.

EXT. LARRY OSTERBERG'S HOME. DAY

Phil arrives on his trike outside a small house.

INT. LARRY OSTERBERG'S HOME. DAY

A man is sitting cross-legged on the floor. A joss stick

burns beside him, and sitar music plays in the background.

This is LARRY OSTERBERG, and he is meditating. There is a

loud hammering on the door. Larry shows no sign of having

heard anything. More hammering at the door, but still no

response. Then the letter box creaks open and an eye

appears in the slot. After a moment, the eye disappears

and Phil's face appears momentarily at the window. The

window seems to be slightly higher than Phil, so his face

appears every time he jumps up to peer into the room.

Then Phil is gone. Larry expels a big breath. The

letterbox creaks opens again and the eye is back.

Larry sighs, and stretches. He gets up slowly, gently

shakes himself to relax his muscles and walks to the door,

which he opens.

Phil barrels in and closes the door behind him.   He turns

to take a look around the room.

This might be sarcastic, but any nuance is lost on Phil,

who props the guitar up against the wall.

CON TINUE D:

He pops a cigar into his mouth.

Phil stares meaningfully at the burning joss stick, but

puts the cigar away.

They both look at each other.         Larry waits for Phil to

speak.

CON TINUE D: (2)

He doesn't look entirely convinced.

Phil pulls some cash out of his pocket and sorts through

it.

Phil passes the money over.   Larry starts to count it.

Larry doesn't pause counting.

CON TINUE D: (3)

EXT. OUTSIDE LARRY OSTERBERG'S GARAGE. DAY

The garage doors swing open and a hearse drives out into

the sun. It is bright yellow and covered in painted

flowers. One of the side windows is broken and a headlight

hangs out. Phil's jaw drops open. Larry gets out of the

driving seat and pats the roof, proudly.

There is a very long silence.

CON TINUE D:

They stare at each other for a moment.       Then Phil sighs

deeply.

Larry looks from Phil to Bernice and back again.

Phil thinks this over.

Larry runs across and closes the doors on a pile of amps

and band equipment that now sits in the garage. Phil puts

the guitar in the back seat and they get into the car.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Larry pulls a screwdriver out of the glove compartment and

jigs it about in the ignition until the engine catches.

CON TINUE D:

Then he turns the keys and pull up and down to undo the

steering lock. Phil watches curiously.

Larry looks pleased.

EXT. LA HIGHWAY. DAY

One backfire, and Bernice is ready. The hearse weaves

erratically across the road and then disappears in a cloud

of exhaust smoke.

INT. BARBARA'S HOME. EVENING

Barbara sits at a table in her shabby kitchen, reading the

will. She lights a cigarette and sits back in her chair.

EXT. LAX. EVENING

The hearse drives under a huge sign which reads 'Welcome to

Los Angeles Airport' and peels off the main road past some

offices and cargo stores. Bernice drives into a giant

hangar and pulls up outside a dark and shuttered office.

INT. HEARSE - OUTSIDE MORTUARY. EVENING

Phil glances out of the window.

Larry parks, and Phil looks at his watch.

CON TINUE D:

There is silence.         Then:

He looks out of the window, and then back at Phil, who now

has his eyes closed.

Phil doesn't answer for a moment.      Just as Larry opens his

mouth to ask again, Phil speaks.

Larry looks at Phil with astonishment.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Larry tries to start the car. Phil leans over and plucks

the screwdriver from his hand. He reclines his seat and

closes his eyes.

Larry opens the door and gets out of the car. He slams the

door shut behind him and stomps off into the gloom. Phil

doesn't move.

INT. HEARSE - OUTSIDE MORTUARY. EVENING - MOMENTS LATER

The drivers' door opens and Larry gets back into the car.

He stares at Phil, who hasn't moved an inch: eyes still

closed, unlit cigar hanging out of the corner of his mouth,

feet up on the dash.

There is still no response from Phil. After a moment,

Larry settles back in his seat and closes his eyes.

EXT. OUTSIDE MORTUARY. NIGHT

The hearse disappears into the gloom as the light fades and

night falls.

EXT. OUTSIDE BARBARA'S HOME. MORNING

A door swings open, and Barbara appears. She is looking

quite stunning, with a tight black suit doing equal justice

to her womanly curves and her duties as a mourner. She

strides down the sidewalk, and as a group of schoolchildren

appears around the corner Barbara scatters left and right.

CON TINUE D:

Then she cuts across the road, and a delivery van skids to

a halt inches away, horn blaring. The driver leans out of

the window, furious.

Barbara stops and whips round, her hair cascading across

her shoulders, her blue eyes flashing. The man simply

stares at her, enchanted by her beauty.

He continues to stare, and is only shaken back to his

senses by a burst of abuse from further back in the road.

Barbara smiles.

INT. AIRPORT CHECK IN DESK - LAX. MORNING

Stanley is standing at the Airport Airlines check-in desk,

facing the check-in clerk.

The clerk checks her paperwork.

The clerk awaits an explanation, but none is forthcoming.

She raises an eyebrow.

CON TINUE D:

Stanley turns to go, but then pauses.

The line behind him falls quiet, and the officious clerk

wobbles slightly. Stanley raises his voice.

Everyone looks at Stanley.            Stanley looks at the clerk.

INT. BANK. MORNING

There is a line leading to the information desk, but

Barbara ignores it. She walks up to a female teller, who

is serving another customer, and cuts in.

Barbara's eyes immediately water, and her lower lip

trembles.

She dabs at her eyes with a lace handkerchief.           The

customer looks embarrassed.

CON TINUE D:

Barbara fixes the teller with a no-nonsense look.   The

teller responds with a similar look.

EXT. MORTUARY. MORNING

A man unlocks the shutters with a clatter and goes inside.

INT. HEARSE - OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

The sound wakes Phil, who glances around and stretches,

before getting out of the car.

EXT. OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

Phil walks over to the door and walks inside the mortuary.

INT. MORTUARY. MORNING

The clerk busies himself opening up. Phil wanders around

and knocks into a coffin. The lid bangs closed and the

sound echoes around the hangar.

The clerk looks Phil over. He's dressed in denim, with

scuffed Harley-Davidson cowboy boots, topped off with a cut-

down denim jacket with 'Sin City' stitched into the back.

Phil looks irritated.

CON TINUE D:

The clerk stares at him.

Phil moves to the desk.

The clerk turns and shouts over his shoulder.

INT. BANK - MANAGER'S OFFICE. MORNING

The Bank Manager is staring at the piece of paper.

Barbara is totally calm.

CON TINUE D:

She just looks at him.      He tries again.

Barbara, realizing that she's getting nowhere, starts to

cry.

Barbara is now sobbing, and the bank manager is becoming

increasing uncomfortable. He gives her his handkerchief.

INT. PLANE - LAX. MORNING

Stanley takes a swig from a hip flask and looks out of the

window. A very overweight, red-faced man squeezes into the

next seat. He bangs Stanley with his knee as he sits, but

Stanley doesn't move. He peers at Stanley and shuffles in

his seat, but there is still no reaction. Next, a deep

sigh is forced out between his fat wet lips - he is plainly

keen to start a conversation. Stanley keeps looking out of

the window. He is watching the cargo being loaded.

Stanley turns slowly.

CON TINUE D:

The fat man smiles and extends a chubby hand, which Stanley

shakes awkwardly and reluctantly.

Stanley is obviously having problems fully understanding

what is being said. After a moment:

INT. MORTUARY. MORNING

The clerk scribbles on a form.

He passes a folded banknote across.      The clerk pockets it

without a change of expression.

The men stare at each other. Then Phil pulls another note

out of his pocket and passes that over. Again, the clerk

pockets it.

A beat.   Then:

CON TINUE D:

Phil smiles broadly at him. The clerk turns and selects a

casket from a gurney behind the counter.

INT. MORTUARY. MORNING

Phil is wheeling a casket on a gurney down the middle of

the hangar. He can see Larry peering through the window at

him. He can also see a uniformed policeman approaching

Larry from the other side of the street. As he speeds up

to try and reach Larry first, the clerk calls out from his

desk.

Phil closes his eyes and slows to a halt.

EXT. OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

Larry is jumping up and down nervously outside the window.

The policeman appears at his shoulder.

Larry turns slowly.

The cop points at Bernice.

Larry has started to sweat profusely.

The cop looks at him carefully.

He leans against the window for support.

INT. PLANE - LAX. MORNING

Stanley is looking out of the plane's window, but the fat

man is now locked on. He gestures around him.

Another thoughtful pause from Stanley.

He glances out at the cargo loaders.

He leans forward to watch a loader wheeling a casket

towards the back of the plane.

Stanley watches the coffin and doesn't answer. A tear

rolls down his face. The fat man pulls some candy out of

his pocket and takes a bite.

INT. MORTUARY. MORNING

Phil and the clerk peer into the open casket.

The clerk walks back to the counter and peers at his

paperwork.

CON TINUE D:

The clerk raises an eyebrow.         Phil understands immediately.

Phil reluctantly hands another note over and the clerk

speaks into a radio.

EXT. OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

Larry is standing by the hearse.          The cop is reading his

license.

INT. PLANE - LAX. MORNING

Stanley has his eyes closed. The fat man eats. Suddenly,

Stanley's eyes snap open and he peers out of the window. A

motorized cart chugs into view with the casket covered in a

blanket on the back. It is driving away from the plane.

He stands up and turns to the fat man.

CON TINUE D:

The fat man reluctantly struggles to his feet and squeezes

out into the aisle.

INT. MORTUARY. MORNING

Phil glances nervously out to where Larry is being

interrogated by the cop. The clerk is reading a paper.

Phil is distracted, watching the cop and Larry out of the

window.

The clerk looks up.

Phil is under pressure.

A buzzer sounds.         No-one moves.

CON TINUE D:

The buzzer goes again, and Phil attempts to change the

subject.

After a moment, the clerk nods towards the phone on the

desk, before turning and disappearing into the rear of the

mortuary. Phil wipes some sweat from his forehead, picks

up the phone and dials.

INT. PHIL'S LOUNGE. MORNING

Susie is packing. The phone rings and she hesitates for a

moment. Then she continues loading her case, leaving the

phone unanswered.

INT. CHECK IN DESK. DAY

Stanley tries to ask a question at the check in desk, but

gives up and walks toward an exit.

INT. MORTUARY. MORNING

The clerk returns with a casket on a gurney and Phil

replaces the receiver as the clerk flips open the top of

the casket and peers inside.

He wheels the casket over and Phil has a quick look inside.

Phil signs the papers.

Phil again glances out of the window.

EXT. OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

The cop is wandering around the hearse.    Larry trails

behind him, disconsolately.

He prods at the broken light with his baton.

Larry is looking increasingly desperate.

CON TINUE D:

The cop nods and repeats it to himself.

They stare at each other.

They stare at each other. The cop shifts position and

purses his lips. Larry stares at the ground looking for

some kind of inspiration. Just when the silence moves

beyond uncomfortable, the door of the mortuary opens and

Phil clatters out with the casket.

He's busying himself at the back of the hearse, and appears

to notice the cop for the first time.

The cop peers at him suspiciously.

The cop hesitates and then takes the end of the casket and

helps load it into the hearse.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Phil gestures at Larry to get into the car, which he does.

He closes the back doors and gets into the passenger seat.

It looks like they've got away with it.   But:

Phil smiles up at him.

Phil doesn't miss a beat.

He raises an eyebrow.

CON TINUE D: (3)

He gestures at Larry to start the car. Larry pulls out the

screwdriver and starts to jig it about in the ignition.

The cop watches. As the engine refuses to catch, Larry

starts to panic.

More fiddling.     No ignition.

The car starts.

He looks meaningfully at the cop, who grudgingly moves

back. As they move off, Stanley hurries round the corner

with his overnight bag in his hand.

INT. HEARSE - OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

Inside the car, Phil bangs on the dashboard in joy and

exultation.

Phil changes the subject.

CON TINUE D:

Larry sulks. Phil shakes his head and glances back at the

cop and Larry crashes the car straight into the hangar

wall.

EXT. OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

We pull back to reveal the enormous opening that Larry has

missed.

INT. HEARSE - OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

They both sit there, staring out of the windshield at the

wall.

The cop peers in at the window and gestures at Phil to wind

it down. As he does, the glass falls out.

The cop ignores him and concentrates on Larry.

CON TINUE D:

Larry swallows hard.

Larry licks his lips.

Pause.   Phil wills him to speak.

Still nothing. Larry looks like he's trying to form words,

but nothing emerges.

The radio in his car crackles into life. We - and he - are

too far away to hear what is said. He is torn for a

moment, but then:

He walks back to his car.           Phil shakes his head.

They both stare out of the window at the cop, who is

talking animatedly into his radio. Then the flashing

lights and siren go on.

CON TINUE D: (2)

The police car drives up to, and then past, the hearse,

before disappearing out of the hanger at speed. Phil and

Larry look at each other.

Phil just stares at him. After a moment, Larry reverses

Bernice and then drives the battered car through the gap

and out of the hangar. Phil slumps back in his seat.

Larry says nothing.     Phil leans back in his seat.

Larry slams the brakes on and the huge car skids to a halt

in a cloud of dust. Phil is flung forward in his seat.

He looks nervously out of the back window.

CON TINUE D: (3)

Larry slips the car into gear and it moves forward.

Larry makes a U-turn.

Nearly at the turn now. Phil opens the car door with a

mind to jump out, but one look at the fast-moving road

changes his mind. He glowers at Larry and shuts the door.

The hearse skids round the corner, Larry slams on the

brakes and the car slides to a halt outside the mortuary.

Larry gestures towards the back of the car.

INT. MORTUARY. MORNING

The clerk is standing at the counter staring at Stanley.

CON TINUE D:

The clerk looks worried.

INT. LA DEPARTMENT OF BIRTHS MARRIAGES & DEATHS. MORNING

Barbara is sitting in a cubicle opposite a middle-aged

woman in a suit. Her allure appears lost on the official,

who gives the dress a disapproving look.

She says 'musician' with great distaste.

The woman flicks through some papers on her desk.   Barbara

watches her. Eventually:

With a flourish, Barbara places a copy of the LA Times on

the table. The headline is 'Country-Rock Pioneer Dead' in

large black print. The official glances at it and gives a

thin smile.

CON TINUE D:

INT. HEARSE - OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

Larry is staring at Phil.      Waiting.

Larry moves to get out of the car.        Phil grabs his arm.

He starts to laugh.

Larry watches him laugh.      Phil catches the look and stops

laughing.

INT. MORTUARY. MORNING

Stanley and the clerk are staring at each other.

CON TINUE D:

The clerk peers at his paperwork.        When he eventually

speaks, it is wearily.

The clerk's attention switches to a point just above

Stanley's shoulder. He points out through the window to

where the hearse is parked over a hundred yards away.

INT. HEARSE - OUTSIDE MORTUARY. MORNING

Larry is staring at Phil.

Larry stares hard at Phil. We see the door of the mortuary

open over Larry's shoulder and Stanley and the clerk

emerge. Then:

CON TINUE D:

Phil glances at the approaching Stanley.

Larry still stares at Phil.      Stanley is almost at the car.

Stanley is getting ever closer. Phil can see him in his

wing mirror. Larry releases the safety brake and the giant

car roars away, leaving Stanley standing in a cloud of

dust.

INT. LA DEPARTMENT OF BIRTHS MARRIAGES & DEATHS. MORNING

Barbara picks up the newspaper and rips it into pieces,

which she scatters onto the desk. She walks towards the

door.

Barbara keeps walking.

Barbara is gone, the door slamming behind her.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Larry drives. Phil is still pitching.        They are driving

alongside the airport runway.

CON TINUE D:

Larry is sweating.

Larry slows the car down.

Larry pulls the car onto a Gas station forecourt.

EXT. GAS STATION FORECOURT. DAY

An attendant is filling Bernice.           He looks Phil over.

CON TINUE D:

INT. REST ROOM - GAS STATION. DAY

Larry is sitting on the toilet seat - still fully dressed

but bent double with cramps. Then Phil bangs on the door

and calls from outside.

Larry turns to look at his reflection in the grimy mirror.

He is shaking.

EXT. GAS STATION FORECOURT. DAY

The tank is full, and the attendant screws the cap back on.

Phil reaches into the back and pulls out his jerry can. He

passes it to the guy.

Phil raises an eyebrow, glances across at the casket, and

winks.

The man gapes at him. Larry walks over to the car and Phil

gets into the passenger seat. He passes some money to the

attendant and takes the can.

Larry jiggles the screwdriver, slips Bernice into gear, and

they're gone. The attendant watches them go.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Larry is driving, Phil is looking out of the window.   They

are still in a built up area with cars around them.

CON TINUE D:

Phil stares at him.

INT. BARBARA'S HOME. DAY

Barbara is standing in her sitting room, the phone to her

ear.

CON TINUE D:

Her mouth drops open and she sinks down onto her couch.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Phil is smoking. Larry is driving, his fingers tapping

nervously on the wheel. He looks distracted and speaks to

break the silence.

Larry backs down with hint of sarcasm

EXT. 10 FREEWAY. LA. DAY

Bernice cruises along the freeway then takes an exit for

Joshua tree.

INT. MORTUARY. DAY

Stanley and the clerk are standing just inside the hangar

door.

CON TINUE D:

The clerk pulls the money out of his top pocket and looks

at it. He shrugs his shoulders.

Clerk points into the distance.

INT. PHIL'S SITTING ROOM. DAY

Susie is moving her suitcases into the sitting room when

there is a banging on the front door. Susie opens the door

and Barbara is standing outside.

Susie looks bemused.

Barbara lights a cigarette.

CON TINUE D:

Barbara glances down at the packed bags and smiles.

EXT. MELON STALL. DAY

The hearse is parked by the side of the road, near a

rickety stall where an old lady sits, selling melons.

Larry sits inside and Phil walks to a phone by the side of

the road. He dials.

INT. PHIL'S SITTING ROOM. DAY

The girls are still arguing.

The phone starts to ring. Susie instinctively moves

towards it, then stops. Barbara watches carefully.

She still makes no move to answer it.

CON TINUE D:

She walks across the room and picks up the phone.

EXT. MELON STALL. DAY

Phil is holding the phone.

INT. PHIL'S SITTING ROOM. DAY

Barbara smiles unpleasantly.

EXT. MELON STALL. DAY

Phil looks surprised.

Suddenly the door of the hearse flies open and Larry runs

out. Phil holds the phone away from his ear as Barbara's

shouting can be heard coming out of the receiver. He

watches as Larry just makes it to a cactus and is violently

sick. He glances across to where the old melon woman

watches, expressionless, from her stall. After a moment,

Larry wipes himself down and walks back to the car.

He goes to replace the receiver, and then pops in a last

comment.

He puts the phone down, cutting off Barbara's squawk and

watches Larry get into the hearse. He frowns.

INT. PHIL'S SITTING ROOM. DAY

Barbara slams the phone down. Then she picks up the

receiver again and smashes it onto the table.

She walks to the door, brushing past Susie.   Then she

stops.

Barbara shows Susie the door.

Susie hesitantly dismisses the challenge.

Barbara turns and walks out.    Susie looks at her packed

bags then follows.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Phil gets into the hearse, looks back at the coffin and

sniffs. He looks down at the air conditioning and turns it

up full. Larry starts the engine and the car stalls.

Phil shakes his head.

CON TINUE D:

Phil doesn't look convinced.

Eventually, the engine catches. Phil immediately gestures

at a small road that heads off into the desert.

Phil winks at him.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

The old woman watches them go.

We stay on the old woman and her melon stall as the light

rapidly changes, cars and pedestrians whizz by, and an hour

passes in moments.

END TIME LAPSE.

As we slow to normal speed, a car drives past, stops, and

reverses back to park by the stall.

EXT. MELON STALL. DAY

Stanley gets out of the Avis/Budget hire car.

He points at a melon.

CON TINUE D:

The question throws Stanley.

The old woman nods.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Larry drives and talks, Phil looks tense.

INT. HEARSE. DAY - A LITTLE LATER

Larry still talks.       Phil now looks bored.

INT. HEARSE. DAY - A LITTLE LATER

Larry still talks, glancing across to Phil to make his

point every now and then. Phil is tossing a cigarette into

the air and trying to catch it between his teeth.

There is a crash, and the car slams to a halt. Larry is

thrown forward, but manages to grab the wheel. Phil is not

so lucky, and catapults into the dashboard, before being

thrown back into his seat, the crumpled cigarette still

gripped between his teeth.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

Bernice has driven into a road sign set into a concrete

pillar. In fact, the sign that Bernice has driven into is

the only thing anywhere near the road for miles in any

direction.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Phil is dazed. He checks his forehead, which is bleeding.

Then he gazes out at the desolate road and the solitary,

buckled sign.

Phil looks out of the window at the vast expanse of nothing

but desert.

CON TINUE D:

There is a faint noise. Larry hears it first and then Phil

and then, as they strain to identify it, they see a tiny

dot on the road ahead of them, which grows and grows as

they watch it, and they peer hard into the wind to identify

it and... it's a motorcycle cop.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

They jump out of the car and shuffle sideways, until they

are standing in front of the actual point of collision.

The buckled sign hangs dangerously above them as they both

grin at the approaching policeman in a friendly manner.

The cop slows down but drives past.        Phil waves at him.

The cop does a U-turn and motors towards them.

He shoots a vicious look at Larry.      The cop parks his bike

and removes his helmet.

CON TINUE D:

As he opens his mouth to speak, a headlight falls off the

car and rolls off the road. They all watch it go.

The sign gives an ominous creak.         Larry takes a sideways

step, out of danger.

He waves his arm at the desert.

The cop takes his sunglasses off and takes a look around,

as if it's the first time he's seen it.

They all look appreciatively at the desert, and the cop

glances down at the keys in Larry's hand.

Larry looks flustered.

The cop doesn't respond, just keeps looking at Larry with a

pleasant half-smile on his face.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Larry turns and appears to see the huge buckled pole for

the first time.

Phil starts to laugh.

The cop turns to Phil.        He is still smiling.

A long pause.      Then:

Larry wobbles with shock.

The cop ignores him.        Phil lights his cigar.

CON TINUE D: (3)

Larry thinks hard.

He looks to Phil for support.   Phil raises an eyebrow.

The cop is no longer smiling.

Phil opens the door and empty beer bottles cascade out into

the road. They get into the car and the cop cuffs them

together through the steering wheel and takes the car keys.

Then he walks back over to his bike and starts to talk into

the radio.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Phil closes his eyes and shakes his head.

Phil opens his eyes.

CON TINUE D:

He shakes his head.

They both stare out of the window.        Phil bangs the cuffs

against the wheel.

They sit glowering out of different windows at different

bits of desert. The motorcycle cop can be heard talking

into his radio.

Larry mulls this over.

Phil treats the theoretical question with indifference.

CON TINUE D: (2)

He has Phil's attention now.

Larry pops his middle finger out of its socket, squeezes

his hand and slides it out of the handcuff. He hands the

other cuff to Phil, who stares at him in astonishment.

Larry starts the car. He throws it into reverse and the

bumper slowly disengages from the metal signpost. Suddenly

the car tears loose and flies backwards, smashing into the

cop's motorcycle, leaving him holding the radio and its

trailing wire. Larry slams on the brakes.

He rolls down his window and addresses the cop, who is

staring with horror at his ruined motorcycle.

Bernice accelerates away but slowly starts to turn in a

wide ark and circles the smashed bike. The cop chases

them.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Phil screams at Larry.

CON TINUE D:

Phil turns to watch the chasing policeman.

EXT. DESERT. DAY

They do another circuit. The exhausted cop stops,

breathing heavily, and then watches in astonishment as the

hearse turns and heads back towards him.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Phil and Larry stare at the policeman out of the window as

the car sweeps past. The cop gets his gun out of his

holster, and Phil reaches into the glove box and pulls out

the screwdriver. He leans across Larry, jams it into the

wheel column, and snaps the steering lock in two. The

hearse's direction immediately changes.

EXT. DESERT. DAY

The hearse roars away and the cop watches it go.

INT. BARBARA'S CAR. DAY

Barbara drives and Susie sits in the passenger seat.   It

doesn't look as if they've spoken for hours.

CON TINUE D:

Barbara shoots her a withering look.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Barbara laughs.

Susie leans over, grabs the safety brake and pulls it up

hard. The car swerves and skids to a stop.

Barbara dismisses her anger with a tight little smile.

INT. HEARSE. DAY - LATER

Phil finishes his beer, rubs his eyes and slumps back in

his seat. He looks terrible, but not as bad as Larry who

is pasty and sweating.

CON TINUE D:

Phil finishes his beer and peers at the empty bottle. Then

something catches his eye and he leans forward in his seat.

A large plaster dinosaur appears ahead.

As they get nearer, they can see that the huge model is

carrying a sign.

Phil shoots him a look.

CON TINUE D: (2)

EXT. POLYONAX PLACE. DAY

The hearse pulls up around the back of the building, and

parks in a place that is hidden from the road. Phil gets

out and stretches. He is joined by Larry, and they both

peer round the side of the building to check that they have

not been observed. Then they walk towards the entrance.

EXT. DESERT ROAD. DAY

A Police Car with siren blaring and lights flashing speeds

past on the road.

INT. KITCHEN - THE POLYONAX PLACE. DAY

We are with a short-order cook. He expertly flips a burger

from a hotplate and adds it to a plate overflowing with

bacon, sausage and fries. He slips this plate onto a tray

on which there is a second plate containing two pieces of

plain bread and some lettuce. He dings a bell and a waiter

enters and picks up the tray. We move with the tray as he

carries it from the kitchen and into the dining area. He

stops at the bar to load three foaming glasses of beer and

a glass of water onto the tray, and delivers it to Phil and

Larry, who are sitting in a window booth. Larry has his

head resting on the table. He lifts it as soon as the food

arrives.

They both look at Larry's bread and lettuce.

CON TINUE D:

Phil picks up the first beer and downs it in one go.

INT. STANLEY'S CAR. DAY.

Stanley is driving along the road. He puts his hand in his

pocket, takes out his hip flask, pops the lid and goes to

take a drink. It's empty. Then he notices the dinosaur.

INT. THE POLYONAX PLACE. DAY

Phil pushes his full plate away and finishes off the third

beer. He gets up. Larry notices he hasn't eaten anything.

Phil ignores him.

He glances around and then walks over to the bar.

He jerks his head by way of direction. Phil wanders off

just as the door opens and Stanley walks in.

CON TINUE D:

Stanley looks confused.           Then he understands.

Stanley picks up a menu.

INT. 'OUT BACK' - THE POLYONAX PLACE. DAY

Phil dials a number on the phone.

INT. PHIL'S SITTING ROOM. DAY

The sitting room is empty.          The phone rings.     And rings.

INT. 'OUT BACK' - THE POLYONAX PLACE. DAY

When it becomes clear that no one is going to answer, Phil

replaces the receiver and walks back into the diner. He

pushes past Stanley as he goes to the bar.

INT. THE POLYONAX PLACE. DAY

Phil joins Larry and puts a bag of beers on the table.

A pause.

CON TINUE D:

Phil pours the rest of his beer down his throat, before

signaling the barman to serve him another.

He raises an eyebrow at Larry. Behind him, we see Stanley

walk in and take a seat at the bar.

The barman gives Stanley his beer.

He pours the spirit in.

Stanley rubs the top of his head.

Stanley reaches for his pocket.          The barman puts his hand

up to refuse the money.

The barman tips a little more scotch into the beer.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Stanley takes a drink.     Phil slips some money on the bar

and stands up.

Larry is listening to the conversation.

Phil picks up the glass of water and drinks it down.

He turns and walks to the door.

Phil is back.

The Barman looks surprised.

Phil reaches across and grabs the back of Larry's jacket.

Both the Barman and Stanley look round, but Larry's stool

is now empty, spinning. He and Phil are already at the

door.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE POLYONAX PLACE. DAY

Phil propels Larry outside.

CON TINUE D:

Larry looks horrified.

They move round the back of the Polyonax Place, where

Bernice is hidden behind an outhouse.

Larry walks round to the back of the car.

Larry swings open the back window and pulls at the casket.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Phil glances at his watch.

Larry slides the top of the casket off and looks inside.

He recoils.

He drops the lid and looks at Phil, horrified.   Phil walks

over and looks inside.

Larry is staring at him with horror.

Phil gives up.

As the enormity of the news starts to sink in, Larry hops

up and down in panic. Phil watches him.

CON TINUE D: (3)

Larry is losing control.

Larry goggles at him.     His voice takes on a level of

hysteria.

Larry walks towards the bar, then quick walks, then runs.

Phil tackles him around the legs and they both fall.

Larry's head hits the ground hard and he lies there

unconscious.

Phil picks him up, slings him into the passenger seat, and

slides behind the wheel. The hearse moves off.

INT. THE POLYONAX PLACE. DAY

Stanley takes another drink and glances out of the window,

just as the bright yellow hearse drives past. He stands up

and walks to the window.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE POLYONAX PLACE. DAY

The hearse picks up speed and powers down the highway out

into the desert.

INT. BARBARA'S CAR. DAY

Susie seethes and Barbara smokes.

Susie looks surprised.

Barbara lights another cigarette.

CON TINUE D:

Silence for a moment.

EXT. HIGHWAY. EVENING

The hearse powers through along the desert highway. They

pass a sign which reads 'If You're Looking for the Joshua

Tree National Monument, You're Getting Close. If You're

not, You're Getting Lost...'

INT. HEARSE. NIGHT

Phil is getting very tired, his vision is blurring and he

shakes his head to wake himself up. He glances across and

sees that Larry is awake and staring at him.

There is a moment's silence.

CON TINUE D:

Phil looks offended.

Phil stares out of the window.

Larry is confused.

Phil says nothing.

Phil rubs his eyes, tired. Suddenly, Larry smashes Phil

across the head with a bottle of Jack Daniels. Phil slumps

back in the seat and Larry, dropping the bloodied weapon,

reaches across to grab the wheel and slow the hearse.

EXT. HIGHWAY. NIGHT

Bernice fishtails across the road as Larry struggles to

retain control. It eventually slides to a halt. Larry

gets out and runs round to the drivers' door.

INT. HEARSE. NIGHT

Larry stares down at Phil.

He slides Phil across the seat and slips behind the wheel.

He shouts at the unconscious Phil.

Larry prods Phil to ensure he's unresponsive.

EXT. HIGHWAY. NIGHT

The hearse executes a wide U-turn before gently rejoining

the highway and heading back towards town. A moment after

completing the turn, the one remaining headlight stutters

and goes out. Bernice pulls off the road.

INT. HEARSE. NIGHT

He flicks the headlight switch, but to no avail. Then, in

the distance, he sees a car approaching. Stanley can be

glimpsed in the driving seat as the car flashes past.

EXT. HIGHWAY. NIGHT

Bernice rejoins the road and drives slowly off into the

darkness after Stanley.

INT. HEARSE. NIGHT

Phil is motionless, and Larry peers out into the darkness

as the car limps on, lit only from the light of the moon.

Larry sees a glow in the distance ahead, and drives towards

a neon sign; 'Welcome to the Joshua Tree Inn'.

CON TINUE D:

He stops by the entrance to the inn and stares at Stanley's

car parked in the bay outside room 8. He glances across at

Phil, turns the car around and drives in.

EXT. JOSHUA TREE INN. NIGHT

Bernice glides to a stop in the bay next to Stanley's car.

Larry gets out and looks around. After a moment, he walks

over to the door of room eight and knocks.

EXT. OUTSIDE ROOM 8 - JOSHUA TREE INN. NIGHT

A tired-looking Stanley opens the door.

They stare at each other.

After a moment, Stanley steps back and opens the door.

EXT. HIGHWAY/CAR PARK - JOSHUA TREE INN. NIGHT

A car drives past the inn and then brakes sharply and skids

across the road. It reverses and pulls in, parking next to

the hearse. Barbara and Susie get out and look around.

Then Susie walks over to the hearse's passenger window and

raps on the glass, and Barbara marches to the back of the

hearse and attempts to open it. She can't.

Susie notices Phil, slumped in the seat.

INT. HEARSE - JOSHUA TREE INN. NIGHT

Phil comes to. He looks out of the window at Susie, then

at the 'Joshua Tree' sign, then at the door to room eight,

then round to the back of the shaking hearse as Barbara

tries to get the door open. His jaw drops open and he rubs

his eyes again, before getting out of the car.

EXT. OUTSIDE ROOM 8 - JOSHUA TREE INN. NIGHT

Phil stands in front of Susie.

He touches his head and looks at the blood on his fingers.

His handcuff hangs from his wrist and Susie stares at it.

Barbara shouts from the back of the car.

CON TINUE D:

Phil walks over to the door of room 8.

He opens the door and walks in.

INT. JOSHUA TREE INN - ROOM 8. NIGHT

Larry and Stanley are sitting on the bed.          Phil shoots a

vicious look at Larry.

Stanley folds his arms.         Susie and Barbara follow Phil into

the room.

She indicates Phil.

He turns to Phil.

CON TINUE D:

Stanley picks up the phone and starts to dial.

Stanley smashes the receiver down onto the table.   Everyone

jumps.

They are almost nose-to-nose now.

Stanley sits down.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Stanley looks up at Phil.

A beat, then:

Susie walks over and takes Phil's hand. Stanley says

nothing for a moment, but his eyes fill with tears.

CON TINUE D: (3)

He starts to cry. Larry shoots an imploring look at Phil.

Barbara glances around the room.

She gestures at Phil and Larry.

Indicates Susie.

Waves a hand at Stanley.

She walks over to the phone.

Phil walks over to Barbara, picks her up and carries her

into the bathroom.

He emerges and slips the back of a chair under the handle,

effectively locking the door.

There is a 'bang' from the bathroom, and the door shakes.

CON TINUE D: (4)

Stanley pauses.

Stanley thinks about this.

Phil doesn't like the inference.

Another 'bang' from the bathroom.   Stanley turns to Larry.

There is a long pause.    Then:

Phil closes his eyes. Stanley picks up the receiver and

starts to dial. Then Phil jumps up off the bed and walks

out of the room. After a moment, Larry and Susie follow.

EXT. OUTSIDE ROOM 8 - JOSHUA TREE INN. NIGHT

Phil is waiting by the car.

CON TINUE D:

Larry gives Phil the screwdriver.

Larry walks away leaving Phil with Susie.         He looks at her.

After a moment, Phil walks back into room eight.

INT. JOSHUA TREE INN - ROOM 8. NIGHT

Stanley is sitting on the bed, the receiver in his hand.

Phil sits facing him.

There is another 'crash' from inside the bathroom.        The

door shakes.

Larry and Susie quietly enter the room.

CON TINUE D:

Phil and Stanley look up.

Larry holds his hand up to stop Stanley.

Phil shoots Larry a dangerous look.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Larry ignores him.

They all look at him.   He gestures at Phil.

In the silence, Susie walks over and grips Phil's hand.

Then Stanley gets up off the bed.

Everyone looks surprised. Phil gives Larry a look of

appreciative approval. Barbara starts to kick furiously at

the door from inside the bathroom. Stanley pauses for a

moment, and then walks outside. Phil and Larry watch him

go, and Susie walks over to kiss Phil.

The three of them move to the door, and Phil turns to

Larry.

CON TINUE D: (3)

He grins at Phil.

The door of the bathroom shakes and one of the hinges flies

across the room.

EXT. OUTSIDE ROOM 8. NIGHT

Phil, Larry and Susie leave room eight. They look around

with surprise, but there is no sign of Stanley. Phil opens

the back of the hearse and takes a quick peek inside the

casket.

Larry is already behind the wheel.   Phil opens the car door

and looks at Susie.

She smiles at him.

She gets in. There is a final, almighty 'crash' from

inside room eight. The three of them look at each other,

and then Bernice is gone into the darkness. A moment later

Barbara runs outside. She leaps into her car and screeches

after them. In the distance a blue flashing police light

suddenly materializes.

INT. BARBARA'S CAR. NIGHT

Barbara is on the road, driving fast. Suddenly a blue

flashing police light fills her mirror.

She pulls over and the police cruiser pulls in behind her.

The traffic cop walks up and looks through the window.

CON TINUE D:

Barbara gives it everything.

The cop turns on his torch and peers at her carefully.

He just stares at her.      Barbara is losing it.

Long pause. Barbara realizes that she might have gone too

far. He starts to write a ticket.

INT. HEARSE. NIGHT

Phil indicates an area just off the road.

CON TINUE D:

Larry pulls the hearse over near the rock. They all sit

there for a moment. Phil and Larry look at each other.

EXT. DESERT. NIGHT

Phil opens the back of the hearse and slides the casket out

of the car. He notices that Larry has made no move to

help. Susie sits on a rock and watches.

Larry walks over and grabs the other end of the casket.

They walk it away from the car and lay it down. As they

lower it, the coffin slips out of Phil's hands and bangs

down in the sand.

They stand and stare at the casket.      Susie walks over with

the guitar and takes Phil's hand.

He gets the gasoline can from the car and stands over the

casket.

He walks off. Phil puts the can down and removes the top

of the casket. He peers inside.

CON TINUE D:

He pours some gasoline into the casket.

Against his better judgment, Larry walks over and peers

inside.

Phil pours a little more fuel in.       He looks over at Susie.

She backs off.

Phil stops pouring and shakes the can.

He pours the rest of the can into the casket. Susie walks

over to stand next to Phil. He looks down at Gram.

They all stare at the casket. Phil wipes a tear away and

tucks a can of beer into the coffin.

CON TINUE D: (2)

He rests Gram's guitar against the casket, takes big puffs

on his cigar to get the flame up, then tosses it into the

coffin. They wait. Nothing happens. Phil edges nearer

and looks inside. Then the coffin explodes into flames.

All three of them are thrown backwards by the blast.

EXT. HIGHWAY. NIGHT

The traffic cop is finishing the ticket when there is a

ball of flame in the distance. Barbara just scowls.

EXT. DESERT. NIGHT

Phil, Larry and Susie pick themselves up. They stare at

the pyre. Phil is close to tears, and Susie puts her arm

around him. For a moment, Phil thinks he sees the flames

morph into the shape of an angel over the burning coffin.

The image disappears when Larry speaks.

He breaks off as a flashing police light appears in the

darkness, followed by a siren.

Larry and Susie run to the car. Phil lingers a moment,

looking down at the flames. Then he follows the others.

INT. HEARSE. NIGHT

Phil jumps into the car.

CON TINUE D:

The huge car screeches off into the darkness, with no

lights.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Stanley watches as the hearse flies past him. He glances

back at the fire, smiles sadly, and bows his head for a

moment. Then he turns on the ignition and drives away into

the darkness.

EXT. DESERT. NIGHT

The police car arrives at the scene.       Barbara and the cop

get out. He peers into the flames.

The traffic cop stares into the fire.

INT. HEARSE. DAWN

Phil is fast asleep and snoring in Bernice's passenger

seat. He wakes slowly and shields his eyes from the bright

sunshine that pours through the windscreen. He pulls a

flask out of the glove compartment and takes a long gargle,

spitting the result out of the window.

CON TINUE D:

Then he glances in the rear view mirror and sees the man

sitting in the casket bay.

Gram pulls himself along the bay and onto the back seat.

He then climbs into the front, settles next to Phil and

holds his hand out for the flask.

He takes a drink and looks around.

He takes another drink and hands the flask back to Phil.

CON TINUE D: (2)

Gram grins.

Gram holds his hand out for the bottle and takes a drink.

And Gram is now Larry, peering down at Phil.

CON TINUE D: (3)

Phil sits bolt upright and looks around the car.   Larry and

Susie stare back at him.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

We hear Gram's: 'Return Of The Grievous Angel' or some

similar music.

We follow Bernice as she drives through the desert, and

into Los Angeles. We follow her through the city streets,

and we stay with her as she parks.

Fade down music.

INT. HEARSE. DAY

Phil turns off the ignition and sits back in his seat.   He

and Larry look at each other.

He leans across to hug Phil, who looks awkward and pats him

on the shoulder instead.

Phil pulls a cigar out of his pocket and lights it. The

handcuff dangles from his wrist and bangs against the dash.

He stares at the match as it burns.

Phil blows the match out.

They all get out of the car.

EXT. LOS ANGELES STREET. DAY

Phil turns to Susie.

CON TINUE D:

There is a small moment of tension, before Phil grins at

her. They kiss.

Phil pats Bernice's battered wing as he walks away and over

to where Larry is waiting. They cross the road and walk

into a building through heavy wooden doors. Pull back to

reveal a sign: 'Los Angeles Police Department'.

FADE UP ON SUPER: Phil Kaufman and Larry Osterberg

appeared in West L.A. Municipal Court on November 5, 1973 -

Gram Parsons's 27th birthday. Since a corpse has no

intrinsic value, the two were charged with misdemeanor

theft for stealing the coffin and given a token punishment:

$708 in damages for the coffin, and a $300 fine for each of

the bodysnatchers.

