Berlin.

Season is March.

Action of the picture takes place in approximately 36 hours.

Picture commences at approximately 12:35 in the day.

Time: The Present.

EXTERIOR REVOLVING DOOR

Show general natural action of people going in and people

coming out but in it is the definite inference of people

arriving and people leaving the big hotel.

MOVE INSIDE THROUGH THE REVOLVING DOOR -- very quickly. CAMERA

PAUSES ON THE THRESHOLD like a human being, seeing and

hearing.

DISSOLVE OUT.

DISSOLVE INTO: Clock. It is twenty minutes to one -- and

then moves slowly into the crowd of busy mid-day business

jumble.

CAMERA pushes through crowd and passes by the foot of the

steps that lead up to the restaurant. In its journey, it

passes Kringelein looking up. He is not pointed.

THE CAMERA then saunters -- getting a slow profile movement

across -- near Senf's desk. Senf is very busy. THE CAMERA

now passes -- profile -- the desk of Senf. General action.

Senf stands before his background of slots and keys. WE

PROCEED until we are facing the elevator.

At that moment the elevator is opening. Among the people who

emerge is Suzette, who moves too quickly for us to distinguish

who she is.

THE CAMERA PANS quickly with her and in the distance we hear

her saying to Senf:

This line is only just above the general clatter of action

but it is picked-up sharply first by Senf then by Bell-Captain --

and as the CAMERA SLOWLY TURNS AROUND, we see the boy going

towards the door and we hear the voice in the distance,

saying:

The CAMERA now backs away from the scene into the BAR. (a

section.) It backs to the back of the bar and proceeds -- in

profile -- behind the backs of the barmen. A mixed crowd of

people drinking before their lunch.

We pick up the Doctor, leaning his head upon his hands,

looking into space. The woman next to him, a noisy blonde,

is laughing. The doctor glances up at her -- she glances at

the doctor. She and the audience see the scarred side of his

face -- the laugh dies on her lips and she turns suddenly to

her companion, who is the Baron. We do not get much of a

chance to see him because at that instant he is glancing at

his watch, his shoulders are turning away from THE CAMERA

and he moves out towards the lobby.

BACK UP a few feet and LAP DISSOLVE as you move into the

main aisle of busy room in restaurant. Great activity of

waiters. The bustle and activity of fashionable lunchtime. A

string orchestra is playing.

Among other things, we pick up the smiling face of the pompous

Maitre d'hotel, he has apparently just shown someone important

to a table.

THE CAMERA watches his face and follows him. His face just

as CAMERA reaches service table. The pompous Maitre d'hotel

now becomes a thing of drama as he demands of a waiter:

The waiter, frightened and perspiring, doesn't bother to

argue -- he tears off quickly (CAMERA FOLLOWING HIM) to

another service table. The waiter seizes buss-boy's arm:

Boy goes off at great rate of speed, CAMERA FOLLOWS HIM,

into service room of kitchen. Boy stops at soup chef's

counter. He is not the only waiter wanting soup at that

moment. He pushes his way to the front and puts his ticket

forward.

The soup chef, used to impatient waiters, makes no exception

of the young man. He looks at him as much as to say: "I'll

slap you on the mouth." At the same time he is pulling over

a cauldron of soup.

CAULDRON OF SOUP being pulled over -- it dislodges a small

cauldron that is near the edge. We see the soup fall and

hear the scream of a woman before showing her agonized face --

She has been scalded. General steamy confusion. The chef has

filled the plate. WE PROCEED the buss-boy out. Half way down

the aisle, the waiter takes it from him.

THE CAMERA follows the waiter who places the soup before Mr.

Preysing. Preysing has been waiting, with his serviette

carefully tucked in his collar. His spoon is in his hand. A

horrible man, ready for action. The soup is in front of him,

he tastes it, pushes it away, frowns, we feel he is going to

tear the place down.

Preysing rises, struts from restaurant. CAMERA FOLLOWS HIM --

He walks out through the door...

Between two operators heads. Odd effect at board. CAMERA

TILTS UP as Preysing's head looks right down at girl.

Bellboy is with Preysing.

Preysing begins drumming his fingers on the top of

switchboard.

SENF IN TELEPHONE BOOTH

At the conclusion of Senf's speech, CAMERA MOVES TO NEXT

BOOTH. Thru the glass door we see Preysing approaching from

desk. He enters booth and commences conversation:

THE CAMERA THEN PANS TO Suzette. Suzette is already in the

booth and she is waiting for Mr. Meierheim to come on.

PAN TO BARON just entering booth. He is lighting a cigarette.

(receiver down - trick)

PAN TO KRINGELEIN - booth.

Near the conclusion of Kringelein's speech, we see the Doctor

approaching through Kringelein's booth. He is looking down

at something.

COMPLETE REVERSE - MATCH SHOT - SHOOT THEM BOTH TOGETHER

Doctor is looking down at parcel. Kringelein's voice on same

track. CAMERA BACKS UP. Show doctor as he passes various

booths -- voices of respective people come up sharply.

Doctor passes Baron's booth next.

Doctor passes Suzette's booth.

Doctor passes Preysing's booth.

Doctor passes Senf's booth.

Doctor crosses to telephone operator:

FADE OUT.

FACADE OF HOTEL

showing electric sign -- odd angle -- THE GRAND HOTEL --

unlighted.

ELECTRIC CONTROL ROOM

small section -- Engineer pulling down lever.

FACADE OF HOTEL

sign flashes on.

DISSOLVE INTO: EXTERIOR HOTEL

Shooting directly on swinging door -- normal crowd action.

Tea-dansant at this hour is daily rendezvous for smart demi-

mondaines, gigolos, out-of-town travelers, etc. -- These

types indicated.

In the distance we hear music.

YELLOWROOM - NEAR SHOT OF BAND

This same music is being played by the Eastman Jazz Band in

the Yellow Room of the hotel.

THE CAMERA does not wait but backs down the room. It is the

hour of the tea-dansant.

As the CAMERA IS BACKING OUT OF THE ROOM which is in reality

the restaurant converted -- the tall figure of the Baron --

he proceeds through the door of the restaurant --

Note: Question here as to whether Yellow Room will be the

restaurant converted, or not. In which case it will be

necessary to add scene of Baron walking through corridor

upstairs -- giving sense of distance.

The Baron is whistling the tune of the orchestra, he proceeds

through the lobby as if on a mission. He glances at a pretty

woman who passes and nods good evening to the Doctor, who is

seated in his chair, not far from the desk. He enters.

FLORIST SHOP

Pretty girl is there, she has seen him coming. She turns

from the door and hands him a box of orchids, already tied

in ribbon.

The Baron would stay and flirt but he has a mission; he

leaves.

LOBBY

In the lobby we pick up the Baron leaving the florists with

small box of flowers -- he crosses quickly to Senf's desk.

SHOT OVER SENF'S HEAD as the Baron puts the flowers down.

Senf is busy.

The Baron is whistling gaily -- tapping his fingers on the

flower box -- he is good-natured and patient.

Boy leaves. We hear his voice out of scene at the door.

Clerk hands box to bellboy.

Telephone rings again. Clerk picks it up.

The Clerk hands Senf the tickets which Senf hands to the

Baron.

As the Baron is picking up his tickets he looks around quickly

as he hears the voice of Pimenov, who has arrived apparently

from his afternoon walk from the rehearsal at the theatre.

At that moment they are interrupted by a vehement little

Japanese with his wife. They are arguing with the Clerk. The

Japanese speaks in Japanese to his wife.

Senf is speaking to a lady at the same time.

The Baron and Pimenov exchange glances as the little Japanese

speaks volubly to his wife.

At that moment, Zinnowitz pushes past them.

Preysing steps quickly into scene.

As they begin to move out of scene, Zinnowitz calls back to

Senf.

As they move out of scene, telephone bell goes.

This just covers the scene.

The Baron and Pimenov are laughing at something one of them

has said which brings our attention to them again.

At that moment the Doctor enters the scene.

The Doctor turns slowly away, taking out a cigarette with

his one hand.

CUT IN: FLASH OF DOCTOR --

He turns as he hears the Baron say this.

He pulls at his cigarette and looks grimly at the Baron...

then he looks off at Kringelein -- who is trying to get

Rohna's attention (the reception Clerk) -- at the reception

desk, which adjoins that of Senf's.

Pan back to desk:

Rohna, sensing a scene with this strange dirty little

gentleman, looks furtively around for the manager.

Second Clerk is looking straight at him.

Kringelein turns his attention directly to this man and

proceeds:

As he finishes the Doctor draws into the scene -- he is

watching.

Assistant Manager enters.

Rohna and Kringelein speak together.

He senses an audience and warms up. The Baron and Pimenov

enter the scene. The lady and gentleman have turned. The

bellboy stands watching curiously and even Senf pauses and

looks up.

During this scene the manager has been talking with Rohna

quietly. The manager how turns.

He takes out his wallet and nervously commences to extract

money.

The manager is instructing the bellboy to take Kringelein to

the new room.

Kringelein accidentally drops a bill -- the Baron, who has

noticed the money, stoops to pick it up.

In bending himself, Kringelein drops his hat.

Baron picks up the hat and considerately brushes it with his

sleeve.

Baron catches the mood of making this gentleman suddenly

popular.

Zinnowitz passes through scene quickly on his way out.

At that moment, Pimenov returns from the news-stand, where

he has bought the evening papers.

The Manager comes into scene.

Kringelein turns to the desk. The Doctor turns up with him.

At that moment the Baron's chauffeur touches his arm.

Chauffeur takes the cigarette out of his mouth -- but still

holds it in his hand.

The Baron leaves.

General moving off, towards elevator, of Baron, Pimenov,

Kringelein and the Doctor.

SENF'S DESK

On another shot, shooting profile onto Senf's desk, bring in

Flaemmchen. Flaemmchen enters. Her back to CAMERA.

She crosses to elevator.

THE CAMERA RUSHES UP BEHIND HER, ALMOST PUSHING INTO ELEVATOR

WITH HER.

As she enters the elevator and the gate shuts, she turns

around, back pressed against the Baron -- who is looking

down at her. The look on her face is the look we often see

on Flaemmchen's in elevators when they are pressed.

NOTE: Good introduction, for Flaemmchen.

The lift ascends.

UPPER CORRIDOR

Flaemmchen steps out of the lift. She is looking around for

the numbers. She moves out of scene.

The Doctor, Kringelein and the bellboy with the bag, move

straight down the hall.

Pimenov is chatting volubly.

We see Flaemmchen being directed by the floor clerk to Mr.

Preysing's room.

He proceeds up the passage, pompously, humming the air of

his ballet.

At that moment, Flaemmchen, who has been directed to

Preysing's door, by floor clerk, passes the Baron and there

is an amusing exchange of glances between them.

Flaemmchen knocking at Preysing's door hears a voice.

She opens the door.

PREYSING'S ROOM

Preysing has had a bath and is actually steaming from it. He

stands before a long mirror, rubbing himself with a towel.

He sees her through the mirror, wraps the towel around him

very cutely, for a big man, and turns upon her.

He is very much affronted.

Flaemmchen, who has seen many large gentlemen in the

altogether --

She goes out of the room and shuts the door.

UPPER CORRIDOR

Flaemmchen emerges from Preysing's room.

Baron loitering in the hall. (Whistling as outlined). Baron

approaches, he is also whistling -- the same tune that

Flaemmchen is whistling. She glances at him, as he continues

whistling with an amusing dance step, as much as to say:

"Are you mad?"

Baron glances back up the passage; it is apparent that he is

going to make conversation here with this girl, in order to

keep legitimately in the passage until Grusinskaya comes

out.

He glances down the passage again, his hands in his pockets.

She glances impatiently at her watch.

Flaemmchen laughs at him.

At that moment we hear Kringelein's voice calling from his

doorway at the end of the passage.

The Baron turns and looks off at ---

KRINGELEIN

Kringelein is in his door in the distance -- radiant. He

waves.

FLAEMMCHEN, BARON AND KRINGELEIN

At that moment Grusinskaya's door opens suddenly and Suzette

comes out into the hall.

By this time the others are entering Kringelein's room. The

Baron turns back for a moment.

Suzette turns back into the room.

GRUSINSKAYA'S ROOM

It is typical hotel. Half-open trunks, etc. Curtains are

drawn -- room is in semi-darkness. There is a sense of

silence, except for distant music coming from the Yellow

Room below.

In Suzette's hands we see one of Grusinskaya's ballet slippers

which she has been mending.

She is about to tiptoe to her seat when she stops suddenly

and looks off dramatically at...

GRUSINSKAYA

Shot from her angle. She is sleeping beneath a Chinese robe,

on the chaise-lounge.

Apparently she has changed her position, because the hand

which is outside the robe moves.

The CAMERA, as though it were Suzette, moves up towards

Grusinskaya. Her eyes are closed. Suzette crosses to the

chaise-lounge and is looking down.

Grusinskaya's eyes open suddenly. She looks at the ceiling

and then her eyes turn and look straight at Suzette.

Like a soldier called to attention Grusinskaya sits suddenly

upright --

While she is speaking Grusinskaya rises -- with the grace of

a dancer she picks up the Chinese robe that has fallen to

the floor and although there is only one other woman in the

room -- she holds the robe around her.

She crosses to the mirror and looks at her face, running her

fingers through her hair. She gently massages under her eyes

and the CAMERA sees Grusinskaya for the first time.

There is silence in the room -- neither of the women speak.

Suzette gets madam's clothes ready. She crosses, puts the

case of pearls down on the dressing table and opens them.

Grusinskaya looks into space -- silence -- dead silence.

Suzette kneels as if to put Madam's stockings on for her.

Grusinskaya pulls her foot away.

She leans forward against the dressing-table and her hands

unconsciously touch the pearls.

She throws the pearls away, down upon the floor.

Suzette crosses replacing the pearls.

Grusinskaya's eyes are looking off into space -- she is away

in Russia -- she does not look --

Telephone rings -- Suzette crosses to telephone.

There is a knock at the door -- a certain kind of knock.

She picks up the telephone and as she does so Pimenov enters.

Suzette quickly gives Pimenov a signal that there is trouble.

As Pimenov is closing the door we hear Grusinskaya speak

into telephone.

Pimenov (at heart a clown) makes a grand comedy bow. He will

deliberately try to tease Madam out of her mood.

She glances at him, without smiling, crosses to the dressing-

table and sits.

It is a hysterical out-burst. It is not a woman who is just

temperamental, it is something deeper than that. She is very

near a nervous breakdown. We, the audience, must feel with

her a revulsion against the word performance.

Pimenov kneels by Grusinskaya -- he is chafing her hands, he

attempts to soothe her.

Now Grusinskaya draws her hands suddenly away.

There is a sudden knocking at the door.

The door opens suddenly. Meierheim bursts into the room.

Business of Pimenov signaling to him.

Meierheim goes over to telephone, he picks up receiver and

says:

Show few feet of Grusinskaya getting dressed.

BY ELEVATOR

Pimenov and Meierheim.

Meierheim is pushing the bell.

They are walking towards Kringelein's room. They are pacing

rather like men who walk the deck on a liner. They turn almost

together, but when they turn back past the CAMERA the CAMERA

PROCEEDS on into Kringelein's room. The CAMERA ENTERS THE

ROOM to a burst of laughter. Champagne bottles open, caviar,

smoke, etc.

In the room are the Doctor, Kringelein, the Baron, Flaemmchen,

and a very fat waiter -- comedian.

The Baron offers Flaemmchen a glass of champagne. She shakes

her head.

At that moment Preysing's voice is heard calling to the Floor

Clerk.

Flaemmchen, hearing this, turns and looks off, apparently

through the door. Her manner changes, she puts down her glass.

Kringelein's optimism has left him for a moment, he stands

looking out of door undecided, he is drooped suddenly, as

though years had returned to him.

They start to leave. Oh, gentlemen, please don't go.

Baron leaves.

They move into the room.

NO SCENES: 24 and 25 Sequence omitted from original script.

NEAR ELEVATOR

Pimenov and Meierheim are standing there.

Meierheim is pushing the elevator button.

The Baron stands near and pauses, he is now a changed man.

He looks off as he hears the voice of Grusinskaya, off in

the distance.

Grusinskaya's Voice Hurry, Suzette.

GRUSINSKAYA

Shot from the Baron's angle. Grusinskaya is sweeping down

the corridor, followed by Suzette.

BARON, PIMENOV AND MEIERHEIM

Grusinskaya sweeps into scene.

The Baron leans forward quickly and pushes the bell with a

glance at her.

They look at each other. He fixes his eyes on her

characteristically. She glances at him. This is the first

time they have met in the picture.

She is impatient. As if to break an awkward silence, she

turns to Suzette.

Suzette is carrying the coat over the pearls. As she takes

the coat off her arm, Grusinskaya glances down at the jewel

case.

Suzette hesitates.

Suzette toddles off with the pearls.

The elevator opens, collects its passengers, all except the

Baron and descends.

FLASH IN

A shot of Grusinskaya's eyes as she goes down, glancing up.

FLASH IN

A shot of the reverse of him looking down.

The Baron pauses, hesitates, thinks. We are interested in

his action. For the first time he becomes furtive.

HOTEL LOBBY - FROM ELEVATORS

Music swells up from the Yellow Room. A great deal of noise,

confusion and activity as the elevator stops to emit

Grusinskaya, followed by Pimenov, Meierheim and some other

people who are rather excited to be in the elevator with the

great Grusinskaya.

The bellboy hears it and passes the word around. It seems to

be echoed through the lobby.

People turn, as Grusinskaya's spirit seems to rise with the

attention she is getting.

THE CAMERA precedes her through the revolving door, as she

sweeps outside of the hotel.

The Baron's chauffeur, Schweinke, is seen to watch her go.

He looks furtively around and enters the hotel.

UPPER CORRIDOR - CLOSEUP OF BARON

As he watches Suzette returning from Grusinskaya's room. She

is about to push lift button - then decides to run downstairs.

IMPORTANT CLOSEUP OF BARON

PREYSING'S ROOM

Zinnowitz and Preysing are standing by door.

Zinnowitz leaves.

FADE IN ON BLACKNESS OF PREYSING'S ROOM

We hear the distant voice of Preysing and the keys of the

typewriter rattling. The reason for the blackness is that

Preysing's back is flat into the camera. His hands are behind

his back and his fat fingers are moving restlessly. It is an

odd effect. We don't know quite what it is.

Preysing moves forward showing that we are in Preysing's

room.

The change of light shows us plainly the time lapse.

Flaemmchen is seated at a small table typing. Preying strides

forward As he strides he says:

Preysing paces the room.

During this, Flaemmchen, who is tired sits back and rubs her

fingers that have been over-worked. She glances at her wrist-

watch.

Preysing comes and stands behind Flaemmchen.

As he turns, he catches a down shot on her from behind as

she stretches back showing her busts. Seeing his face looking

down on her she pulls herself together and seats herself at

attention.

It seems a silly kind of lull.

She looks at him, waits a moment and then begins

characteristically to, change the sheet of paper.

She tosses magazine -- as if it were nothing at all over to

him.

He looks down at it without touching it.

He picks it up.

As he looks at picture -- he lowers his voice two notes.

He drops her hand suddenly.

Preysing paces the room trying to get his thoughts back to

the work in hand.

He paces back and forth again.

By this time she is smoking her cigarette.

There is a sudden knock at the door.

Boy enters with telegram.

With almost hysterical speed, Preysing snatches the telegram --

opens it. Flaemmchen powders her nose.

IMPORTANT CLOSEUP OF PREYSING

it is bad news. He wipes the perspiration from his forehead.

Flaemmchen, believing the telegram to be something that she

must copy, picks it up quite naturally and reads it.

Preysing turns and snatches the telegram from her.

Preysing paces the room with the telegram.

Flaemmchen rises, stretches. Quite naturally she glances at

the pictures on Preysing's dressing-table.

Flaemmchen, delighted and with alacrity, crosses, piles up

her papers and is prepared to leave.

FLASH OF CORRIDOR

Trim Flaemmchen out of Preysing's room. Take her down to

elevator.

At the same time, CAMERA PANS OVER and shows the Baron's

chauffeur knocking at the Baron's door.

Trim the chauffeur into the Baron's room.

BARON'S ROOM

Baron is busy changing his clothes. Chauffeur steps in, he

closes the door behind him and stands there with an

inquisitive look.

He takes the skeleton key out of his pocket and produces it

to the Baron.

Baron is suddenly seized with uncontrollable temper -- twists

his wrists -- backs him to door, speaks quietly.

The Chauffeur leaves.

The moment he is gone -- Baron looks the door -- business ad

lib.

Crosses to window.

FACADE OF HOTEL

The Baron peeps out onto balcony -- it seems to be clear. He

proceeds along and peeps into Preysing's room. Preysing is

apparently in the bathroom. Baron skips nimbly past the room.

Working at thrill of pass through to Grusinskaya's room.

GRUSINSKAYA'S BALCONY

Baron is pretty shaken by jump.

GRUSINSKAYA'S ROOM

Darkness -- light from transom and building opposite.

Business of finding key and getting pearls. INTERCUT Preysing

coming out onto his balcony, bringing out with him, loud

speaker of radio -- which announces noisily as follows:

GRUSINSKAYA'S ROOM

Baron starts suddenly -- when he hears voice and with pearls

in his hand, looks cautiously out of window -- only to see:

SHOT FROM HIS ANGLE ONTO PREYSING'S BALCONY:

Preysing seating himself upon his balcony -- Radio loud

speaker seen. Possibly Preysing commences dinner scene

bullying waiter.

GRUSINSKAYA'S BALCONY

The Baron knows he is trapped, if he jumps onto Preysing's

balcony, Preysing is the man that will cause the alarm.

Quickly he moves across the room -- tries the door -- it is

locked securely. He looks for skeleton key and then remembers

refusing it from the chauffeur. He is trapped in an absurd

way.

As he moves back from the door, he knocks the telephone off

of the table. He watches it for a moment, realizing that the

operator must now know that there is someone in Grusinskaya's

room.

He picks up the telephone, replaces the receiver, wipes finger

prints off with his handkerchief.

He is moving back to window when telephone starts to ring

suddenly. The thought crosses his mind they they will want

to know who is in the room. He lets the telephone ring.

Crosses to the door again.

Above the din of the telephone we hear the chambermaid's

voice singing an absurd song.

He listens. She is coming in.

The key turns in the door.

Quickly he hides behind the curtains.

Slowly and amusingly the chambermaid, tired and dragging,

enters the room.

He is looking for an opportunity to dash through the door.

After all, this maid should be an easy person to get around.

We have a feeling he wishes to dash through the door.

The chambermaid might be singing the same tune that we hear

from Preysing's radio.

The telephone commences ringing. Chambermaid does not answer

it but continues her duties.

At last, because of the noise of the telephone, she picks it

up and speaks.

At that moment, the Inspectress, a large stout woman, appears

at the open door.

The Inspectress, in a very businesslike way, proceeds around

the room, coming nearer and nearer the Baron. She is looking

at ashtrays and running her fingers over the woodwork looking

for dust. She tries the door to the next room, to see if it

is locked.

Telephone bell rings again.

Inspectress picks it up quickly.

Suddenly, out of scene, we hear the voice of Suzette.

Suzette is calling out to the night clerk in the passage.

Suzette comes in and hurries to telephone.

INTERCUT

With the Baron watching.

GRUSINSKAYA'S BALCONY

During this action the Inspectress has waven the chambermaid

out of the room. Business ad lib.

Meierheim enters, he has heard the word 'Pimenov' on the

telephone -- he takes the receiver from Suzette.

He turns and sees Grusinskaya standing at the door. She is

in costume, very pale, very beautiful. Her coat, over one

shoulder, is ragging, she lets it drop and moves slowly into

the center of the room. Her hair, dressed for the dance,

make-up is on her face -- she is breathless.

The other women in the room draw out, leaving Suzette to

pick up the robe that has fallen to the floor.

Suzette obediently crosses to door and pauses on threshold,

waiting for Meierheim.

Meierheim approaches Grusinskaya.

Suzette, with a frightened look through the door, closes it

on Meierheim's exit.

DURING THIS SCENE, INTERCUT SHOTS OF BARON.

It is some time before Grusinskaya moves. She crosses to

door -- turns the key -- takes the key out of the lock and

throws it away from her -- out upon the floor. She crosses

slowly to the mirror, regards herself, silently. We hear the

strains from Preysing's radio playing a light Viennese waltz.

Grusinskaya begins suddenly to sob.

FLASH OF BARON

Watching her.

GRUSINSKAYA

Quite suddenly -- as if with resolution she begins to undress.

Then she becomes weary again.

With a garment in her hand, she moves slowly toward the

curtain -- where the Baron is standing.

BARON

We see him tense himself.

GRUSINSKAYA

She drops the garment listlessly to the floor -- moves out

of scene.

CLOSEUP OF BARON

He peeps around the curtains.

GRUSINSKAYA

She is in a thin robe. She sits before mirror -- looks

steadily at her face. Her head goes down suddenly in her

hands and we hear her say:

Suddenly she moves quickly across the room. Goes to bathroom.

Baron half starts out toward door. He watches -- darts across

the room as if towards the door. He hears her coming and

darts quickly into the half open door of the closet.

She re-enters -- carrying a glass of water. She crosses,

places the glass down beside the bed -- her movements are

quick and furtive -- then she crosses, picks up the telephone --

asks for the theatre.

She leaves receiver down -- crosses quickly to mirror --

stands there and brushes back her hair -- crosses back to

telephone speaks:

She glances up at the clock.

Again she puts the receiver down -- picking up a pencil she

commences hastily to scribble a note. She writes frantically.

Her other hand goes up and picks up the receiver.

She finishes the note -- commences suddenly to speak into

the telephone --

She is about to replace the receiver. She sits with it in

her hand, unreplaced.

The music has stopped. The room is strangely silent. Behind

her the Baron peers from the closet.

Her head sinks down upon her hands.

A funny, singing noise comes from the telephone. She lifts

the receiver to her ear. In a very strange voice, the voice

of Opehlia, she speaks:

The foregoing scene is much better played than described. It

is in fact, ballet.

Quite calmly, Grusinskaya finishes the notes on the table.

She folds it up and places it in a prominent place on the

table, or hangs it over the telephone.

She crosses to the window pulls back the curtains -- the

Baron has been hiding behind a few minutes before.

We see the Baron watching. He glances at the door quickly.

"No, there is not time." She is returning calmly. She crosses

to the dressing table and takes the veronal out of a drawer.

She looks at it thoughtfully, her lips are trembling a little.

She moves to the radiator as if to seek warmth.

She sinks into a chair and her head droops over her folded

hands which contain the veronal, she seems to pray.

The Baron comes from the closet -- now is his chance, he

looks at the door but can't make it. Looks on the floor for

the key which Grusinskaya has previously thrown there, his

eyes fall upon the note on the telephone -- he reads it.

It is a death farewell note to Suzette -- do not insert it.

At this moment she has finished, the Baron returns to his

hiding place. She makes the sign of a cross and goes to her

bed.

She looks around nervously, apprehensively -- like a deer

who has heard something, then reassured. She places the

veronal on the night table beside the glass of water. She is

quiet and deliberate. She arranges the pillows under her

head and lies down. She reaches for the bottle of veronal

and empties it generously in her hand. She has to lean away

upon one elbow, from the Baron's position, in order to balance

herself.

The Baron steps like a cat from his hiding place. He goes to

the bedside noiselessly and stands there.

She reaches for the glass-her hand stretches out for the

glass. The Baron takes her wrist suddenly.

She turns quickly looking at him. The glass falls to the

floor with a crash and breaks. As she moves, the veronal

falls out of her hands upon the bed. She struggles up to a

sitting position.

She glances up at him. She is bewildered. She seems to be

coming out of a trance. Again she wants to jump from the

bed.

Now she becomes conscious of almost nakedness. She draws her

kimono tightly around her, glances across the wide expanse

of bed. We see her consider passing over that way, but she

is now a woman again -- a woman of the earth -- it would be

a silly movement.

She gets up quickly and crosses, putting on her robe which

was lying across the back of a chair.

Her first movement is not one of alarm but of -- shame. She

draws her robe more closely around her and looks at the Baron

puzzled. She thinks, dreamily, "What is this?" She glances

back at the veronal and the bed showing us plainly that this

man must have watched her preparation for bed. We get a sense

of relief with her. She is trembling.

The Baron has controlled his nerves perfectly. He senses his

danger. He is caught red-handed with five hundred thousand

marks worth of pearls in his pocket. He is wondering if she

will ring the bell. For an instant he thinks of escape. He

could dash for the balcony. He could strike her dead or

silence her with threats. There is in the room an intoxicating

sense of romance and danger. (It should be in the scene.)

She looks at him for a few moments and then suddenly she

throws herself upon the bed and begins to weep more and more

passionately.

A look in his eyes reminds her of the strangeness of the

situation. She rises with returning dignity and pulls her

robe around her -- she is becoming the Grusinskaya of Imperial

Russia; she is the woman Grand Dukes have fought for. She

sweeps across the room.

She gets her cigarette box from the writing table and holds

it out to him. He takes a cigarette and lights it. She watches

him curiously. She smiles, as she watches him greedily inhale

the smoke. She crosses and sits before her looking glass.

She brushes her hair back and powders her face. She looks

into the mirror, we feel that she has regained a desire to

live. He crosses and looks at her in the mirror. He smiles.

Outside the distant noise of Kringelein is heard --

She whispers.

The way she says it, the word goes home. It hurts him. She

has looked into his eyes for a moment with a strangely melting

and almost happy expression. She gets up suddenly.

(NOTE: The other side of the bed -- not where the glass is)

She reaches with her feet for her slippers. She puts one on.

She can't find the other.

Business as he gets other slipper for her.

He kisses her ankle and looks up at her. She smiles down.

He watches her.

The sound of her own voice reassures her. She is generating

warmth. Her cry has done her good, she speaks quickly,

volubly.

Grusinskaya turns, she is graceful again.

She rises. She had expected something else. His reply strikes

her as chivalrous and considerate. She crosses to the writing

table brings back her little cigarette box which she holds

out to him. He takes a cigarette and lights it. She watches

him curiously. She smiles, as she watches him greedily inhale

the smoke. She crosses and sits before her looking glass.

She brushes her hair back and powders her face. She looks

into the mirror, we feel that she has regained a desire to

live. He crosses and looks at her in the mirror, he smiles.

Suddenly he stoops, takes her shoulder in his hands and kisses

it. A long tender and sincere embrace.

Her eyes close. A tremor passes through her. Suddenly his

whole being is aware of her. She turns, rises and disengages

herself.

He glances back. He speaks suddenly with an air of command.

Her head falls slowly on his breast.

He crosses quickly to her and holds her in his arms.

Outside the distant noise of Kringelein and the doctor.

FRONT ON SHOT OF KRINGELEIN

approaching the CAMERA with the Doctor.

They are returning from the bar and are passing Grusinskaya's

room. THE CAMERA precedes them. The Doctor is

characteristically drunk. He is silent, tense, cynical. A

distinct contrast to Kringelein, whose soul is warmed for

the first time by alcohol.

Kringelein's hat, the same, eccentric one, is twisted upon

his head jauntily. The carnation is in his buttonhole.

THE CAMERA backs into Kringelein's room and pauses, because

the Doctor has paused at the door.

But the Doctor has gone.

Kringelein re-enters his beautiful room. He crosses to the

mirror, regards himself. Business ad lib.

He looks at himself in the mirror and raises his hat.

Imitating the doctor, he repeats:

He puts his hat on the knob of the bed.

He takes off his coat, holds it up and carefully takes the

carnation out of his buttonhole. With the coat over his arm

and the carnation in his hand he looks around for a glass

and some water which he sees standing on the night table by

his bed.

He puts the carnation in the glass, having filled it with

water and then his eyes fall upon his small group of medicine

bottles.

His demeanor changes. He immediately becomes a thing of pain.

He glances at his watch -- it is long past his medicine time --

his spirit droops -- he might almost be in pain.

He picks up a small bottle and carefully counts eight drops

into the glass. He is about to take it, he smells it, a sudden

impulse of well-being surges over him. He flings the medicine

away.

With a great wave of optimism he commences to sing the song

that we have heard during the evening -- the chambermaid

song - the Preysing radio song -- the love song. He saunters

around the room, undressing.

DISSOLVE INTO PASSAGE

His voice is still heard in the passage.

Rows of shoes outside the doors. The dozing night clerk hears

the voice and looks up, startled.

DISSOLVE INTO A WATCHMAN

with his clock, hears the voice.

DISSOLVE INTO A CORNER OF DOCTOR'S ROOM

He is dozing in a chair with his clothes on. He looks up

suddenly, hearing the voice.

DISSOLVE INTO PREYSING'S ROOM

He is snoring. The distant voice disturbs him. He turns in

his sleep.

DISSOLVE INTO GRUSINSKAYA'S ROOM

A beautiful picture -- the distant voices -- shadows.

DISSOLVE INTO KRINGELEIN'S ROOM

He is now dressed in an absurd night dress. He crosses to

the bed, still singing, climbs into the huge bed -- the great

pillows. His hand goes out -- he pulls out the light. He

might be an Emperor as he turns with a happy, tired sigh.

DISTANT CLOCK CHIMES.

FADE IN:

TELEPHONE ROOM

It is the first time we have seen it. There are about eight

girls very busy. Morning confusion. (parts to be written)

We pick up essential lines as we PAN DOWN SHOOTING AT THE

GIRL'S FACES, assuming the CAMERA to be the board.

CAMERA PANS TO:

CAMERA PANS TO:

The word passes down repeated.

CAMERA PANS TO:

CONFERENCE ROOM

Telephone bell ringing.

General shot.

Gerstenkorn, an old business man and Doctor Waitz, counsel

for the Saxonia organization are sitting at a gree table,

smoking and waiting.

The door opens and Flaemmchen enters. She is agreeably

surprised to see the room full of men. She likes men.

Business of Schweimann and Flaemmchen.

Gerstenkorn, making notes, glances at his watch again.

Door opens suddenly.

Flaemmchen, who has been busy preparing her little table for

work is seen in several CLOSEUPS:

INTERCUT this speech, which if played by Beery will be

interesting, with signals, winks and signs between the other

three men.

Business between Preysing and Flaemmchen finding papers on

'Mop Rag' report.

Flaemmchen, who is on her toes and busy every minute, rushes

to the telephone and gives an order -- her conversation is

heard over the conversation of the men in the room -- CAMERA

HOLDS ON FLAEMMCHEN:

Zinnowitz enters the room.

There is dead silence for a moment -- he clears his throat,

commences in almost the same tone as Preysing.

During all this commotion Flaemmchen is paying no attention

whatsoever. She is calmly spraying herself with a perfume

atomizer and smiling at a gentleman. The noise continues

over her.

NO SCENE 61

Sequence omitted from original script.

GRUSINSKAYA'S ROOM

The atmosphere has changed, the sun shines. Grusinskaya is

reclining on the chaise-lounge -- her Chinese robe drawn

about her. She speaks voluably.

He does not answer.

The Baron takes the pearls out of his pocket and lays them

before her.

The Baron makes a gesture as if to stroke her hair and then

holds back.

Pause.

She is suddenly cold.

His hand touches her hair -- tenderly.

There is a sudden knock at the door.

With a quick gesture Grusinskaya beckons the Baron to the

bathroom. He disappears into the bathroom. She opens the

door, after finding the key and radiantly addresses Suzette.

She puts the coffee down on the table.

Charming piece of business as Suzette, in putting the coffee

down on the table must necessarily push back the heavily

crested cigarette case of the Baron.

She is a French woman. She is pleased.

As Grusinskaya hurries Suzette to the door she says:

Suzette goes out. Quickly Grusinskaya crosses and flings

open the bathroom door. The Baron comes out.

As she speaks the telephone goes. She gives the telephone a

dirty look. Telephone rings again. She pulls him across to

the telephone.

With a hand in his she lifts the telephone receiver and

speaks.

During this scene the Baron is touching her shoulder. A

charming light moment. She continues to speak into telephone.

His touch probably tickles her, she laughs -- quickly covers

the receiver so that Meierheim will not hear her laugh.

During this scene she is listening to Meierheim. She frowns

suddenly --

She turns to the Baron and their arms go around each other.

The telephone rings again.

She lets the telephone ring.

Telephone bell rings again.

They move towards the door.

Telephone starts ringing.

She holds him back. The telephone is ringing.

Alone with the telephone bell ringing, Grusinskaya breathes

deeply, stretches herself. She goes to the glass and looks

at herself -- smiling. Happily she takes the pearls, kisses

them, drops them into the casket -- picks up the telephone.

She rises from the telephone flutteringly, she is humming a

tune. She crosses to the mirror, pulls back her hair happily,

she is indeed younger.

Suzette is putting out a dark dress.

Suzette happily glances at her.

There is a knock at the door.

Pimenov enters, before he can speak --

Before he can start speaking of last night she quickly speaks:

During this scene Grusinskaya has not looked at him, she is

busy in the glass. Nice photography on hair and face.

Side scene between Suzette and Pimenov, as Suzette shows him

the cigarette case on the table.

As he goes through the door Grusinskaya crosses and almost

sweeps Suzette to the door with him.

They leave.

Grusinskaya shuts the door. She sweeps happily to the

telephone.

While she waits, she moves with a sense of dance.

Bring music up.

EXT. HOTEL - SIGN

Music effect over sign "Grand Hotel." Precisely the same

angle as before. The sign lights.

LOBBY - BY SENF'S DESK

The music comes up on the DISSOLVE into the original key

shot of the lobby.

Senf is busy.

The Baron's chauffeur is standing impatiently by his desk.

Business ad lib of Senf. He turns to the chauffeur who is

barring the way of an important looking alien.

Chauffeur makes no effort to move. Against the normal busy,

happy traffic of the evening he is a sinister figure. He

does not move but glares at Senf.

This whole scene is played in a very low key, almost in a

whisper, it is interrupted by the entrance of the Doctor.

During this short scene the chauffeur saunters off.

Kringelein comes to the doctor.

They move away from the scene.

Kringelein's voice diminishes as the CAMERA MOVES following

the chauffeur.

The chauffeur saunters unthoughtfully past the florist shop

and out of the door. As we pass the florist shop we see the

back of the Baron in the shot.

CAMERA PANS chauffeur out to door. He has not seen the Baron

in the florist shop. THE CAMERA PANS back to florist shop

waits for the Baron who emerges carrying his usual box of

orchids. CAMERA FOLLOWS BARON back to Senf's desk. Key shot.

Kringelein is speaking to the doctor.

The Baron approaches them.

The Baron smiles. He slaps his gauntlets on his dusty coat.

The Baron leaves.

NOTE: Find cut here.

While Kringelein is talking, they move away from the CAMERA.

FLASH OF BARON'S ROOM

The Baron enters, throws his gloves down on the bed, turns

up the light, picks up a piece of paper that's been pushed

under the door, glances at it.

FLASH INSERT OF THE PAPER

In scrawl: "I HAVE BEEN WAITING ALL DAY. WILL BE OUTSIDE OR

AT THE GARAGE." "S"

BARON

We again see the apprehension on the Baron's face. He crosses,

closes the window. As he does so we hear the noise from the

conference room.

Bring up noise from the conference room.

CONFERENCE ROOM

We must have the feeling that these men have been arguing

all day. Cognac bottles, cigar ends, selzer water, remains

of some sandwiches. In other words it is a business

battlefield. Preysing is drawn and tired. Zinnowitz is on

his feet. Flaemmchen is fast asleep in her chair, making a

pretty picture.

Preysing jumps to his feet.

Due to the long tedious session the men's collars are wilted.

IMPORTANT CLOSEUP OF PREYSING

His hand goes to his pocket. Slowly he takes out the telegram

and glances at it. The following scene is played over this

closeup.

There is a general movement to go.

FLASH OF TELEGRAM

Trembling in Preysing's hand. "DEAL WITH MANCHESTER DEFINITELY

OFF."

GENERAL SHOT OF ROOM

Gerstenkorn crosses to Preysing.

QUICK CLOSEUP OF ZINNOWITZ

GENERAL SHOT OF ROOM

By this time, Waitz and Zinnowitz have the articles out upon

the table.

Preysing is perspiring.

Gerstenkorn puts his arms around Preysing's shoulders.

Preysing stands, looking ahead of him.

Gerstenkorn picks up the papers glances at them, looks at

Waitz.

Flaemmchen is awakening.

While Preysing is signing.

Hasty hand-shaking, business of exits.

Waitz, Gerstenkorn and Schweimann out.

Preysing has not moved.

Zinnowitz takes the agreement and waves it in the air to dry

the signature.

Preysing does not answer.

Zinnowitz amiably shrugs his shoulders.

Preysing commences to laugh suddenly with increasing violence.

During this scene, Flaemmchen has risen, piled up her papers,

glanced at her watch. During this action Flaemmchen motions

to Zinnowitz that she is going down to dance, etc., Preysing

is unaware of this action. Flaemmchen leaves the room trying

not to attract attention.

Preysing is very excited, they start to leave -- at that

moment the telephone rings.

He crosses to the telephone.

When he picks the telephone up his hands are shaking --

COCKTAIL SHAKER

-- which shakes more. Music crashes up --

DISSOLVE INTO BAR

Kringelein and the Doctor are just entering. Kringelein is

changed. His hair has been cut short and his moustache is

gone, he looks almost saucy.

During the following speech Kringelein keeps reaching for

the moustache that is not there. He is thoroughly happy.

At that moment Flaemmchen enters.

Kringelein is beating time to the music -- a little carried

away.

Flaemmchen laughs.

The Baron enters quickly.

BARON AND FLAEMMCHEN DANCING

They dance a few steps, in silence.

They dance into the crowd.

BAR

The music has stopped.

BARON AND FLAEMMCHEN ON DANCE FLOOR

They move off. As they approach the bar, happily Preysing

pushes into scene, touches Flaemmchen's arm.

At that moment Kringelein has descended from the stool and

crosses to Preysing.

They bow stiffly.

Kringelein stands watching Preysing, his eyes narrowing.

The two men eye each other; for a moment there might be a

fight.

Preysing leans against the bar, orders a cognac. The Baron

turns his back to him, watching the dancing.

FAEMMCHEN AND KRINGELEIN ON FLOOR

Kringelein shows signs of exhaustion.

Flaemmchen watches him quickly.

It is obvious that she has stopped because of Kringelein's

distress.

They move back to the bar. Preysing catches Flaemmchen's

arm.

Kringelein's hat has fallen from the stool upon the floor.

Flaemmchen picks it up, brushes it.

Kringelein starts to laugh.

The Baron steps into the scene.

The Doctor slowly comes from the bar.

The Baron steps between the two looking straight into

Preysing's face.

FADE IN:

KEY SHOT OF LOBBY OVER SENF'S HEAD

General activity.

The house detective, later identified, is talking to the

chauffeur. He leaves the chauffeur and crosses to Senf.

At that moment Preysing enters.

Preysing glances off to see Flaemmchen standing looking

around.

Preysing crosses to Flaemmchen.

At that moment the Baron and Kringelein pass.

Preysing glances up at Kringelein as he passes.

She is looking away.

She still looks away.

THE BARON

Who is leaning against a chair by a pillar with Kringelein.

THE CAMERA APPROACHES THEM.

They are not speaking. The Baron is looking off at:

FLASH A SHOT FROM HIS ANGLE OF CHAUFFEUR

Sauntering between the door and Senf's desk.

THE BARON

He slumps on the arm of the chair.

The Baron looks off, sees the chauffeur --

FLASH OF CHAUFFEUR

Arguing with Senf.

BARON

Keep the CAMERA on Kringelein as he watches the Baron.

He takes out his pocket-book and looks at his money commencing

to count it. The thought is in his mind of offering the Baron

money. Charming scene.

BARON AND CHAUFFEUR

Moving into position. They are talking.

At that moment a voice is heard.

It is passed along.

Baron looks off...

FULL SHOT -- FROM HIS ANGLE

Like a pageant Grusinskaya sweeps forward -- pretty shot.

Music comes up.

Grusinskaya is followed by Suzette, Pimenov and Meierheim.

People turn to look at her. She sweeps forward.

As she gets to the door she faces the Baron. She steps quickly

aside to him. Pimenov and Meierheim pause.

She and the Baron are alone.

He takes her hand, kisses it quietly.

During this scene Kringelein has been hovering nearby. As

Grusinskaya turns away and exits, Kringelein approaches the

Baron, who is standing perfectly still, looking off, -- his

mind miles away.

The Baron looks at him suddenly.

At that moment Flaemmchen passes.

Flaemmchen hesitates as though she wanted to say something

that is on her mind.

A curious little scene.

She doesn't speak, she just turns suddenly through the door.

The Baron glances after her a little puzzled, turns back to

Kringelein.

They move off and are last in the crowd.

No scenes 88-93 inclusive

Sequence omitted from original script.

KRINGELEIN'S ROOM

Possibly ten men are gathered about a green table. They are

playing cards. There are champagne bottles, glasses, etc.,

on the table -- a great deal of smoke. Good atmosphere. The

game is [...] fer. There is a dead silence except for the

monotonous words of the players.

White faced, the Baron has the bank.

Otternschlag is seen to close the door quietly and approach

the table.

Kringelein's back is to us.

They are smart people, not professional gamblers.

There is a tension in the room. The men are gathered around

tightly. We do not see the cards.

The following voices are heard:

Several men glance at Kringelein and the size of his stake.

There is tension in the room. The Baron deals two cards.

Kringelein takes cards.

Kringelein turns it down. He is like a little boy learning a

new game.

The Baron deals himself a card.

The Baron is serious. There is enough money on the table to

take him to Vienna.

The Baron rises.

They hand him the cards.

Kringelein kisses the Baron -- he looks around.

At the side table the Baron is standing -- he is drinking --

his face is white -- he has lost.

Kringelein has come to the Baron.

Baron pours out a glass of champagne -- he has been drinking

plenty -- he hands glass to Kringelein.

They both move back to the table where the Doctor holds the

bank.

The Baron picks cards, shows them to Kringelein who doesn't

understand.

The Baron throws the cards into the middle of the table and

turns to Kringelein:

Kringelein seats himself, puts his glass of champagne down

on the table.

Doctor leaves table, crosses to Baron who is pouring another

drink.

He has pointed and turned off because we hear Kringelein's

voice:

Baron moves out of scene followed by Doctor. As Baron

approaches table.

During the foregoing scene, one of the men at the table has

answered the ringing of the telephone bell, he comes back

now.

Business ad lib. General business of slow normal exit.

Kringelein looks up from counting his money. He has been

like a little boy with a Christmas stocking. He looks up

suddenly, sees men are leaving --

By this time the men are pausing by the door.

There is a general feeling in the room that although this

man is drunk he is terribly sincere, and that there is no

wish to embarrass themselves or him. In fact, there is a

nervous impatient movement among the men. But Kringelein has

reached an emotional pitch.

General noise among men, some are ribald, others are serious.

Two men come and shake hands with Kringelein, bidding him

goodnight.

The Baron puts his hand restrainingly on Kringelein's

shoulder.

Kringelein almost staggers towards the sideboard. The men

are nearing the door.

Business ad lib.

The doctor is there quickly. The Baron next.

General normal business ad lib between the men. Perhaps three

of them help him up, including the Baron. They carry

Kringelein to the bed.

Little comedy on exit. Ad lib.

INTERCUT FOR RELIEF -- Kringelein's face -- white, drawn,

tragic.

One man, perhaps, remains.

Man leaves. During this scene the Baron has been carefully

making Kringelein comfortable on the bed, bolstering pillows

behind his head. Kringelein's eyes are shut tightly, his

hands are limp.

By the business of the Baron, although we do not of course

know it, this is the time that he takes the wallet from

Kringelein and puts it in his own pocket.

We might perhaps remember a sudden turn away in which we see

his back and his right hand raised as though reaching in his

inside pocket --

He stands looking down at Kringelein.

Kringelein's eyes flutter. His voice sounds hoarsely:

We watch Baron's face, he looks back over his shoulder.

Baron turns in this scene. He walks forward toward them.

The Doctor's hands are on Kringelein's coat.

At that moment, Kringelein, who has been staring up at the

ceiling, his hands clenching and reclenching, starts up.

The doctor goes to restrain him.

He is suddenly on his hands and knees, crawling along the

floor, looking for it, like a little boy; his drunkenness,

his condition, makes the situation tragic. He actually gets

under the card table.

The Doctor looks at the Baron.

The Baron only watches Kringelein. He follows him, fascinated.

The foregoing speech is intercut with the following action

in which Kringelein's voice is heard throughout -- thus it

is not a long speech:

The Baron watches. He throws his cigarette away -- he bites

his lip -- sweat breaks out upon his forehead; again he is a

thief. When he wanted pearls the love of a woman stopped

him. Now he wants this money and pity, a slow growing pity

for this tragic, dying thing is stopping him -- and all the

time the Doctor watches.

The one, whole eye pierces into the Baron's melting

conscience.

Twice during the speech at a spot, through and during

rehearsal, to be selected, the Doctor's voice, droning but

piercing, says:

These are two interjections.

And now, Kringelein lies upon the floor, a troubled little

sack of pain, his head down.

The Baron turns away. He bends down as though he were looking

for the pocketbook. We see him take it from his pocket and

turn. There is a very light, almost triumphant ring in his

voice as he says:

NOTE: If he is a strong actor he can pick Kringelein up --

If not, he and Doctor lift Kringelein to bed.

Baron bites his lip. It is the first and only time in the

play that we see a tear near -- the strong man almost breaks.

CORRIDOR

Baron shuts door and pauses. In front of him is the door of

the woman he loves. Down beyond is his own empty room. In

his pockets nothing. In his CLOSEUP he makes the audience

feel his problem with him.

This man who has lived and whistled and love through the

play becomes a tragic, lonely, harrassed figure. The Baron

has broken. His fists dig into his eyes -- he brushes his

hair back.

Over this comes with almost an impertinence, a tiny whistle.

He looks up and away down the corridor. The figure of

Flaemmchen stands there, a small black bag in her hand. The

Baron pulls himself together and smiles characteristically.

He walks down the corridor.

They both go into their respective rooms.

Here are our two gay young characters. The gay, fresh

Flaemmchen and the debonair Baron, crucified for lack of

funds. Both trying to smile, both trying to be light about

themselves. Yet, each about to involve themselves tragically

for the want of a little money.

FLAEMMCHEN'S ROOM

Flaemmchen enters her room cautiously. Except for one lamp

burning the room is in darkness and empty. From the adjoining

door to Preysing's room a thin stream of light. She puts

down her bag quickly, tiptoes through the bathroom to his

door. She peeps through.

FLASH OF PREYSING'S ROOM

from her angle.

Preysing stretched on bed flat, his stomach a mountain and

on it the magazine that he has been reading with Flaemmchen's

picture. He is looking at the ceiling. She knows he is awake

because a thin stream of smoke comes from his cigar in his

hand.

FLASH OF FLAEMMCHEN

An idea occurs to her. She could possibly sneak into bed and

he would go to sleep and there would be nothing that night.

CAMERA FOLLOWS HER as she tiptoes to her room. She closes

the door noiselessly and listens. She throws off her hat and

takes off her coat. Opens her bag and takes out night dress,

lingerie, etc. The lid of her bag falls suddenly. She starts

at the noise. "Has it awakened him." She looks off.

SHOT AT BATHROOM DOOR

The thin stream of light is filled suddenly, the door of the

adjoining room opens and back-lighted from the other room

the huge form of Preysing appears. In this odd lighting he

is a little more than Preysing. He comes forward. He speaks

hoarsely, quietly.

She goes to his arms passively. He rubs his face in her hair.

She is passive -- cold.

He holds her again, trying to kiss her. She deliberately

avoids his kiss.

Preysing rises while she pulls her night dress from under

him.

He draws her to him.

Preysing laughs. She laughs.

There is a pause for a moment.

Flaemmchen yawns straight in his face.

He moves towards the windows which are open. She pushes his

fat body out, almost playfully, through the doors and onto

the balcony.

Preysing stands out on the balcony. He looks down in the

street below, then off. He starts suddenly because he sees a

shadow over the railing of his own balcony. He is puzzled.

Shadow crosses again. "Who can be in his room?" He moves

forward and peeps through the window. One side of the French

window is closed. From his angle we see the Baron furtively

searching the room. He is now wearing an overcoat, the collar

is turned up. Business ad lib. He finds Preysing's wallet.

He stuffs this in his overcoat pocket. Preysing's face

watching him. As Baron turns to exit, Preysing surges forward,

pulling the window after him. The two men face each other.

The Baron hands him the pocketbook without a word.

The Baron makes for the door on the other side of the room,

pulls at the knob.

The Baron makes one dive across the room. Preysing grasps at

his coat and tears it. With one hand holding the telephone,

(the receiver dropping on its cord towards the ground) and

one hand holding the Baron.

Preysing wrenches the telephone suddenly away from the Baron.

The action excites him.

With a terrific lunge, Preysing brings the telephone down

upon the Baron's head. The Baron sways, stunned. (as in book).

In his mad rage, Preysing, hits again with the telephone.

By this time the Baron is a heap on the floor. We see Preysing

come out of his blind trance. He even repeats again.

DOWNSTAIRS TELEPHONE ROOM

Sharp sound of buzzing.

Dozing night girl plugs in, lazily.

With nonchalance she flicks plug out again, as she does so:

PREYSING'S ROOM

New angle. Preysing is on his feet. He has replaced the

receiver on the telephone, he is putting it back slowly. He

is terrified.

Door opens behind him.

Flaemmchen, with a dressing gown on, light, filmy thing,

crosses and looks down at the Baron, without a word. Preysing

seizes her.

Her hand goes to her head, her eyes roll; for a moment we

think she is going to faint right on top of the Baron. She

is trying to collect her senses, it cannot be true. We can

hear nothing but the heavy breathing of Preysing and the

traffic below.

Suddenly a motor horn in the street below sounds strident,

it is the first time we have been conscious of it.

With a swift movement, Flaemmchen dashes towards the door.

It is locked. She rushes back as if to cut through her own

room. He reaches for her and rips her dressing gown from

her, leaving her almost naked. He lunges after her. She tears

through her own room.

CORRIDOR

Flaemmchen enters from her room. She looks this way and that.

After all, it is Flaemmchen and not Lillian Gish, running

across the ice in "Way Down East," -- it is Flaemmchen, a

Berlin girl. She pauses to try and clear her brain. "What

the hell is this -- what is it." The impulse naturally is to

scream in alarm. She doesn't -- Flaemmchen's don't. She looks

around. At the end of the passage is Kringelein's room. She

will go there. We watch her run down the passage uncertainly.

Without knocking she pushes open Kringelein's door.

KRINGELEIN'S ROOM

It is in darkness. The only light comes through the windows.

The form of Kringelein lies prone upon the bed, the Doctor

had just thrown a coat over him. He is still in his trousers

and shirt.

Like a ghost, Flaemmchen, the shreds of her filmy clothes

hanging to her, crosses.

She sweeps to bed. She shakes him. Kringelein starts up.

She pulls on the light by the bed, it flames up on their

faces.

It occurs to him that this girl with her torn clothes must

have been roughly treated by Preysing. He suddenly assumes a

strength.

She slides down to the floor, by the side of the bed.

Kringelein climbs out of bed, tries to help her up.

She waves him away.

Kringelein assumes suddenly a strength. He is a man for a

crisis -- he forgets that he was ever ill -- he leaves.

WE GO WITH HIM. CUT HIM DOWN CORRIDOR QUICKLY. He pauses

outside Preysing's door, uncertain of the rooms, then he

knocks.

He feels there must be a mistake -- he steps back, sees

Flaemmchen's door open next to it. He enters.

FLAEMMCHEN'S ROOM

He enters. Looks around. Looks through bathroom. Goes quickly

forward.

PREYSING'S ROOM

Preysing is still leaning against the table, his mouth is

open, he is gaping -- stunned. The two hundred and four pounds

has collapsed and sagged. He is staring, his victim lying --

a heap upon the floor, very still and quiet. His eyes come

around as Kringelein enters.

Kringelein crosses, looks down. Touches the Baron's hand.

Preysing takes him by the shoulders.

TELEPHONE ROOM

Telephone girl plugs in.

HALL PORTER

The scene gradually grows intense. Porter calls night man.

ROHNA'S ROOM

Darkened room. Bell ringing. Rohna sits up in bed, turns on

light, picks up telephone; on his face we see him hear the

news.

(he replaces the telephone commences dressing quickly)

GRUSINSKAYA'S ROOM

Trunks standing around everywhere. Suzette is finishing

packing. Grusinskaya is sitting in front of the mirror in a

loose night wrap -- she is doing her hair.

Suzette leaves -- turning out a light.

Alone, Grusinskaya goes to the telephone. She raises the

receiver.

CUT IN HERE at discretion the:

BARON'S EMPTY ROOM

Telephone is ringing.

GRUSINSKAYA'S ROOM

Music up as we --

FADE IN ON:

DISSOLVE INTO - EXTERIOR SERVICE ENTRANCE OF HOTEL

The trees and the milk cart effect and other curious signs

of dawn, which we remember after the climax of the first

sequence.

Music cold and eerie.

General early morning bustle and activity.

From one van, fruit and vegetables are being unloaded. From

another, huge hind quarters of beef are being carried in and

in a monotonous way a baker throws two loaves at a time, to

another man, from a van backed up --

Waiters coming to work. A noisy racket.

Sandwiched between the bread and butcher vans, is backed a

hearse.

At the moment we come upon it, the men are pausing in their

work to glance. The men take off their caps, as; proceeded

by the hotel detective and others, who will be there, the

corpse of the Baron in the basket, used at such time, is

brought out and placed in the hearse, which drives noisily

away. A policeman rides with the driver on the box.

By this time the man with the bread is counting:

Stay with him for a moment.

DISSOLVE INTO - EXTERIOR FRONT OF HOTEL

Shooting onto door - day lighting.

A man comes out and signals a black closed limousine, which

pulls forward.

DISSOLVE INTO - MAIN HOTEL LOBBY

Early morning. Sense of chill and desolation. Some chairs

stand on tables. A vacuum cleaner is at work on the carpets.

Newspaper boys are delivering papers at the news stand. The

various shops are slowly being opened, the windows being

cleaned.

The general feeling of the beginning of another day.

THE CAMERA waits at a distance shooting from door as Preysing,

with a plain clothes man on either side of him, leaves, moving

towards THE CAMERA. He is grim, his hat is drawn over his

eyes. His hands deep in his pockets. When he has passed the

CAMERA MOVES FORWARD TO:

SENF'S DESK

(the old shot) Meierheim is entering quickly goes through

the door.

He crosses now to Pimenov. They talk eagerly out of earshot.

But it is apparent that Meierheim is, as usual, in a hurry.

Rohna is there too. One of the men carries a telephone stand,

wrapped loosely in paper. But we know it's the telephone

stand.

Senf comes on duty, looks around, it is apparent that he is

late.

A number of bellboys march up and form a line. Senf comes

from behind the desk and inspects them.

They show their hands.

The boys sit down on the bench.

THE CAMERA MOVES TO KRINGELEIN.

Kringelein and the police officer move towards the desk in

ear shot.

Kringelein exits.

CORRIDOR BY ELEVATOR

As Kringelein emerges from the elevator, Suzette speaking to

the Floor Clerk.

Suzette hurries down corridor. By this time Kringelein has

arrived at his door, he opens it.

KRINGELEIN'S ROOM

Kringelein opens the door and enters. Flaemmchen is looking

into space. A lovely picture. Morning light over her hair,

she is dressed.

Kringelein straightens, happy, inspired, a smile on his face.

He assumes in his gestures. Takes the telephone.

CORRIDOR

The figure of Grusinskaya is standing at her door, there is

no one with her. Suzette steps out.

FLASH OF PIMENOV

coming out of the elevator.

Grusinskaya hurries down to Pimenov -- they meet.

She crosses and looks in the Baron's room. A maid is there

changing the bedding. The room is unoccupied otherwise.

The maid nods.

Maid shrugs her shoulders.

While they are waiting for the elevator Grusinskaya is like

a live electric wire.

The elevator arrives. They are stepping in.

LOBBY

General activity. We hear the cry go up:

Grusinskaya comes out of the elevator followed by Suzette

and Pimenov. Meierheim meets her.

Grusinskaya crosses to the desk. She speaks to Senf.

Grusinskaya, followed by the others, sweeps out towards the

door.

EXTERIOR HOTEL

Grusinskaya emerges, followed by the others. The sunlight

hits them.

Grusinskaya moves forward.

LOBBY

BY ELEVATOR

At this moment Kringelein and Flaemmchen are coming out of

the elevator, Kringelein is carrying his suitcase.

A bellboy attempts to take his bag but Kringelein, still

confused draws his hand with the suitcase away from the

bellboy.

Hearing the word 'Excellency' Kringelein goes through a

transformation. He stands and with a flourish hands the

suitcase over to the boy. He is a big man now.

Kringelein pays and taking Flaemmchen's arm starts to move

away from the desk, General business ad lib of tipping. Boys

line up, making a deep bow. There is almost a triumphant

march as Kringelein and Flaemmchen move towards the door.

With head erect, happy smile on his face, Kringelein leaves

the lobby. Normal activity in lobby, reminding us of opening

scene. Doctor comes up to desk.

