AN OKLAHOMA PAVED HIGHWAY in daylight. At some distance,

hoofing down the highway, comes Tom Joad. He wears a new

stiff suit of clothes, ill-fitting, and a stiff new cap,

which he gradually manages to break down into something

comfortable. He comes down the left side of the road, the

better to watch the cars that pass him. As he approaches,

the scene changes to a roadside short-order RESTAURANT on

the right side of the road. From it comes the sound of a

phonograph playing a 1939 popular song. In front of the eatery

is a huge Diesel truck labeled: OKLAHOMA CITY TRANSPORT

COMPANY. The driver, a heavy man with army breeches and high-

laced boots, comes out of the restaurant, the screen door

slamming behind him. He is chewing on a toothpick. A waitress

appears at the door, behind the screen.

We see him climbing into the cab of the truck from the right

side. Getting behind the wheel, he is releasing the handbrake

when Tom appears at the driver's seat window.

He indicates a "No Riders" sticker on the windshield.

After a moment of hesitation the driver releases the brake.

As Tom scrunches down on the running board the driver throws

the truck into gear and it moves.

The scene dissolves to the CAB OF THE TRUCK. It is day, and

Tom is seated beside the driver, who is surreptitiously eyeing

him, trying to confirm some suspicion--an inspection which

Tom ignores at first.

Cautiously, the driver's eyes drop to Tom's feet. We see

TOM'S SHOES. They are prison shoes--new, stiff and bulky.

Curiosity is in the eyes of the DRIVER as they shoot a swift

glance at Tom. TOM is looking straight ahead, with the dead-

pan look that prisoners get when they are trying to conceal

something. The DRIVER'S eyes take in Tom's hands and the

stiff coat.

With a sigh of relief the driver puts his foot on the brake.

The TRUCK stops and Tom gets out. He look at the uneasy driver

contemptuously.

The driver throws the truck into gear. He doesn't like this

at all.

He looks indifferently after the truck and then starts on

foot down the dirt crossroad. A wind has begun to blow.

The scene dissolves to the roadside under a WILLOW TREE in

daylight. The wind is still blowing. Sitting on the ground,

his back against the tree, Casy, a long, lean man in overalls,

blue shirt, and one sneaker, is fixing something on the other

dirty sneaker. To the tune of "Yes, Sir, That's My Baby" he

is absent-mindedly singing.

Carrying his coat under his arm, TOM wipes his face with his

cap as he cuts off the road to acknowledge the greeting.

He stops, grateful for the momentary relief of the shade.

They pause at the edge of the shade, squint up at the sky,

and then move off.

The scene dissolves to the SURFACE OF A DIRT ROAD by daylight.

Leaves are scuttling across it. The top soil begins to fly

up. It is not a hard wind as yet, but it is steady and

persistent. Tom's and Casy's feet walk into sight.

Tom, holding his cap on his head with his hand, looks up...

The TOPS OF THE TREES are bending before the wind. TOM AND

CASY continue walking.

TOM AND CASY are almost being blown along and dust is rising

from the road.

The JOAD CABIN is an ancient, bleak, sway-backed building.

There is neither sign of life or habitation about it.

A DUST STORM, like a black wall, rises into the sky, moving

forward. TOM AND CASY are running, but looking back over

their shoulders as the DUST STORM nears. Dust rises from the

ground to join and thicken the black wall.

TOM AND CASY are seen racing down the road to the cabin, the

wind whipping up the dust. The two men smack open the door

and slam it shut after them. The screen begins to grow dark

as the storm sweeps over the land. It becomes black.

In THE CABIN, it is black too, but the sound is different.

In addition to the sound of the wind there is the soft hissing

of sand against the house.

Presently, after shuffling about, he has found them and lights

one. He holds it up, lighting the room. A couple of wooden

boxes are on the floor, a few miserable discarded things,

and that's all. Tom's eyes are bewildered.

From the floor he picks up a woman's high button shoe, curled

up at the toe and broken over the instep.

Dropping the shoe, he picks up a battered felt hat.

Dropping the hat, he moves with the candle toward the door

to the back, the only other room of the cabin. He stands in

the doorway, holding the candle high.

In the BACK ROOM the scene moves from Tom at the door across

the room to the shadows, where a skinny little man sits

motionless, wide-eyed, staring at Tom. His name is Muley.

Muley does not reply. He is looking up at Casy as he enters.

MULEY is seen at close range. Not actually crazy, Muley is a

little touched. His eyes rove upward as he listens to the

sound of the storm, the sough of the wind and the soft hiss

of the sand. Then...

The scene dissolves to MULEY'S DOORYARD. It is a soft spring

day, with the peaceful sounds of the country. Seated in a

three-year-old touring car is THE MAN, a city man with a

collar and tie. He hates to do what he is doing and this

makes him gruff and curt, to hide his misgivings. Squatted

beside the car are Muley, his son-in-law, and a half-grown

son. At a respectful distance stand Muley's wife, his

daughter, with a baby in her arms, and a small barefooted

girl, watching worriedly. The men soberly trace marks on the

ground with small sticks. A hound dog sniffs at the automobile

wheels.

Muley stands in anger. The two younger men pattern after

him.

The scene dissolves to the BACK ROOM. The sound of the storm

is heard again as Tom and Casy watch Muley.

We see MULEY at close range.

The scene dissolves to a MONTAGE OF TRACTORS: tractors looming

over hillocks, flattening fences, through gullies, their

drivers looking like robots, with goggles, dust masks over

mouth and nose--one after the other, crossing and recrossing

as if to convey the impression that this was an invasion of

machine-men from some other world.

The scene dissolves to MULEY'S FARM. We see the backs of

Muley and the two younger men standing shoulder to shoulder

watching a lumbering tractor headed straight toward them. It

is at some distance. Muley holds a shotgun. His son has a

baling hook. The son-in-law has a two-by-four. Behind them

is their cabin. Frightened and huddled together are the women

and children. The roar of the tractor comes closer.

The TRACTOR continues to lumber along, its driver goggled

and black of face where his dust mask doesn't cover. MULEY

lifts his shotgun to his shoulder, and aims.

The TRACTOR stops. The driver takes off his goggles and dust

mask. Like the others he's a country boy. His face is sullen.

Muley is lowering his shotgun. There is a surprise in his

face as he recognizes the driver.

He moves forward, followed by his son and son-in-law in the

TRACTOR. Davis is wiping his face as they walk toward him.

We see THE WOMENFOLKS. A small girl pulls her mother's dress.

Back to the TRACTOR AND THE MEN:

And the tractor roars into slow motion again...

We see the HOUSE AND TRACTOR. The womenfolks scamper out of

the way as the tractor heads for a corner of the house. It

goes over a ramshackle fence and then a feeble little flower

bed. Muley and the two younger men walk along. Breathing

hard, frightened and desperate, Muley is shouting warnings

at Davis, but the roar of the tractor drowns his voice. The

dog barks excitedly, snarling at the tractor. THE WOMENFOLKS

stand watching, terrified but dead pan, until a cry bursts

from Muley's wife.

The little girl begins to whimper.

The TRACTOR moves across the yard, nosing a chair out of the

way, and with a rending of boards hits a corner of the house,

knocking a part of the foundation away. The corner of the

house sinks. MULEY lifts his shotgun, aims it, holds it, and

then slowly lowers it. As he stands looking at what has

happened his shoulders sag. He seems almost to shrink.

The scene dissolves to MULEY, once more in the back room of

Tom's old home, as the sound of the storm continues.

Tom rises in his agitation and bewilderment.

He looks down at Muley.

His eyes are dull on the floor. The sound of the dust storm

continues strongly.

The scene dissolves to the EXTERIOR OF THE CABIN at night.

It is several hours later and the sound of the storm has

faded out. Now all is silence as first Tom, then Casy, and

finally Muley steps out of the cabin and looks around. There

is still a slight fog of dust in the air, and clouds of

powderlike dust shoot up around their feet. All three men

have wet rags tied over their mouths and noses.

A CAR approaches at some distance, the headlights moving up

and down as the car rides a dirt road.

A PART OF THE COTTON FIELD: Muley leads the way.

THE EXTERIOR OF THE CABIN: The car stops. A strong searchlight

flashes on and goes over the cabin.

The car moves on.

TOM, CASY AND MULEY lie flat, listening to the sound of the

car going away.

He whistles, as the scene fades out.

DRIED CORNSTALKS, seen by daylight, fade in. The cornstalks,

their roots blown clean and clear of the earth, lie fallen

in one direction. This is what has happened to farms that

were once rich and green. Then Uncle John's cabin comes into

view. It is just after sunup. The air is filled with country

sounds--a shrill chorus of birds, a dog barking in the

distance. The cabin is of the same general appearance as the

Joad cabin but even smaller. Smoke curls from the chimney.

We see a PLATTER ON A TABLE, inside the cabin. The platter

is filled with sidemeat. Over the scene comes Ma Joad's voice.

As she speaks, a man's scrawny hand reaches forward and sneaks

out a piece of sidemeat.

Five people are seated around the breakfast table on chairs

or boxes. They are Pa, Grampa, Granma, Noah, and Uncle John.

Two children, Ruthie and Winfield, stand to the table, because

there are no more chairs. Their heads are all bent as Ma,

standing with a fork in her hand between the table and the

stove, ends the grace. Heads lift and there is a bustle as

Ma turns back to the frying pork on the stove and the others

truck into their food. Granma points a spiteful finger at

Grampa.

RUTHIE AND WINFIELD, though they are shoveling it in, are

grinning at Grampa.

NOAH is solemnly studying a handbill. Over his shoulder the

HANDBILL can be read: "800 PICKERS WANTED--WORK IN CALIFORNIA"

We see NOAH AND UNCLE JOHN.

Noah frowns at the print.

RUTHIE AND WINFIELD are snickering. Ruthie has smeared her

face with mush. She pulls Winfield around to see.

She begins to slobber in mimicry. Winfield snickers. At that

instant Ma enters, unobserved, and without a word give Ruthie

a fine wallop. Nobody else pays any attention to the slap as

Ma, a bucket in her hand, moves on toward the door. We see

her now in the BACKYARD, first at the door, then moving toward

the well. She stops dead still, her eyes gazing outward.

TOM is looking at the household goods piled around the yard,

to be taken to California. Casy is in the background. Then

Tom looks up and see Ma (out of the scene). His face softens.

He moves toward her.

With a sigh and a smile, and her eyes full of wonder, she

feels his arm. Her fingers touch his cheek, as if she were

blind. Swelling with emotion, Tom bites his lip to control

himself.

CASY, with great politeness, turns his back to the scene and

keeps well away from it.

TOM now looks around at the dusty furniture piled around the

yard.

At the DOOR, Pa is staring toward them, his mouth open.

INSIDE UNCLE JOHN'S CABIN, all but Granma are staring toward

the door. Then all but Granma scramble to their feet, headed

for the door.

The children and Grampa scramble out first, followed hurriedly

but less rowdily by Uncle John and Noah. Granma, aware only

that there is some excitement, looks interestedly after them

but decides against any activity.

In the BACKYARD, the prodigal son, mother and father proudly

beside him, is having his hand wrung by Grampa, who vainly

tries to button various buttons of his shirt, as always. The

two children jump up and down excitedly but are too shy to

force themselves into the reception.

As Tom chucks the two children under the chin, the rattling

roar of a jalopy causes all to turn to look.

The roar increases. A home-built TRUCK comes around the corner

of the house. Once a Hudson sedan, the top has been cut in

two and a truck body constructed. It is driven now by Al,

and on the front seat with him are Rosasharn and Connie. The

arrival, as the truck moves into the yard, increases the

excitement, and the scene is a little incoherent with the

talking and shouting and the noise of the jalopy.

At the whoop of laughter that goes up from all, she turns in

a fine simulation of maidenly mortification, and throws

herself into Connie's arms, hiding her face against his chest.

After a moment of surprise, a slow, happy, fatuous grin begins

to broaden his face. He beams, whereupon their delight

increases, the men roaring and jeering and slapping their

legs, the women making modest efforts to suppress their

amusement.

An automobile horn sounds sharply. Their laughter halted as

though cut by a knife, they look off. A TOURING CAR has

stopped in the road by the house, the engine still running.

One man drives, the other talks.

In the BACKYARD the people are silent, their faces without

expression, as all gaze toward the touring car.

The touring car's engine is still heard after the men drive

off. The Joads watch the car, their heads turning, their

eyes following, expressionless.

The scene dissolves to the BACKYARD just before dawn. Now

and then a rooster crows. A couple of lanterns light the

scene as the man load the truck. It is nearly done, the body

piled high but flat with boxes, and more tied on running

boards. Al has the hood open and is working on the motor.

Noah, Casy, Uncle John, Connie, Pa, and Tom are at various

tasks. They talk as they work.

INSIDE THE CABIN, Ma sits on a box in front of the stove.

The fire door is open and the light shines out. The room

itself has been pretty well stripped, with only trash and

discarded things left. In Ma's lap is a pasteboard shoebox

and she is going through the meager treasures stored in it,

to see what must go and what she can take with her. Her eyes

are soft and thoughtful as each item brings a memory, but

not sad. Occasionally she smiles faintly. She pulls out a

letter, looks at it, starts to throw it into the fire, then

puts it back in the box. Her hand pulls out a PICTURE

POSTCARD. We see it in Ma's hand. It is a picture of the

Statue Of Liberty. Over it: "Greetings from New York City."

She turns it over. It is addressed: "Mrs. Joad RFD 254

Oklahomy Territory." In the space for a message: "Hello honey.

Willy Mae."

MA, after a moment of studying it, throws the card into the

fire. She lifts the letter again, puts it back. She pulls

out a worn NEWSPAPER CLIPPING. We see it in Ma's hand. The

headline is: "JOAD GETS SEVEN YEARS."

MA drops the clipping into the fire. Rummaging around, she

pulls out a small CHINA DOG. We see it closely as before. On

it is printed: "Souvenir of Louisiana Purchase Exposition--

St. Louis--1904."

MA studies the dog, smiling, remembering something that it

meant in her life. Then she puts in in a pocket in her dress.

Next she pulls out some pieces of cheap jewelry; one cuff

link, a baby's signet ring, two earrings. She smiles at the

ring, then pockets it. The cuff link too. The earrings she

holds for a moment longer, then looks around to make sure

nobody sees, then holds them to her ears, not looking into

any kind of a mirror, just feeling them against the lobes of

her ears, as once perhaps she wore them. Her eyes are grave.

Tom disappears. Ma looks at the earrings, and then at the

contents of the box. She lifts out the letter again and looks

at it. Then, without drama, she drops it into the fire. She

watches it burn. Her eyes are still on the flame as she calls.

The flame dies down.

In the BACKYARD it is grey dawn. There is a thrill of quiet

excitement as they all stand around the loaded truck, hats

on, putting on coats. The ones missing are Ma, Rosasharn,

the children, and Grampa. Pa is in charge.

Tom easily lifts her up the step. The two children come

running out of the house, chanting.

All have obeyed and are aboard but Pa, Tom, and Casy, who is

watching the springs flatten out.

All turn. In a CORNER OF THE HOUSE Al is pulling Grampa gently

but firmly, the old man holding back, and furious. He flails

feebly at Al, who holds his head out of the way without

effort.

Al permits Grampa to jerk loose and sit down on the doorstep.

The old man is miserable and frightened and angry, too old

to understand or accept such a violent change in his life.

Tom and Pa come up to him. The others watch solemnly from

their places in the truck.

All watch him worriedly.

INSIDE THE CABIN:

Ma is already pouring coffee into a can as GRAMPA is seen.

He drinks the coffee. Pa and Tom watch him. He notices

nothing. He takes another dram of the coffee.

He drinks again.

The scene dissolves to the TRUCK. It is just after dawn. Pa,

Tom, and Noah are lifting Grampa into the truck. He mumbles

angrily, but is unconscious of what is happening.

The engine rattles and roars shakily. Grinning with

excitement, Pa sits down and pats Grampa clumsily.

The truck starts to move heavily. Casy stands watching it.

He stops politely. Pa looks from one face to the other in

the truck--a swift, silent canvass--and though no one speaks

or gives any other sign, Pa knows that the vote is yes.

Quickly he climbs aboard. The truck rattles into motion again.

As they all look back the deserted CABIN is seen from the

departing truck.

Now we see the FAMILY IN THE TRUCK, as it snorts and rattles

toward the road--a study of facial expressions as the Joad

family look back for the last time at their home. Connie and

Rosasharn, whispering, giggling, and slappings, are oblivious

of the event. Ruthie and Winfield are trembling with

excitement. But Tom's and Pa's smiles have disappeared, and

all the men are gazing back thoughtfully and soberly, their

minds occupied with the solemnity of this great adventure.

In the FRONT SEAT OF THE TRUCK. Al is driving. Granma is

already dozing. Ma looks steadily ahead.

She continues to stare straight ahead. The TRUCK is lumbering

up onto a paved highway.

The scene dissolves to a MONTAGE: Almost filling the screen

is the shield marker of the U.S. Highway 66. Superimposed on

it is a montage of jalopies, steaming and rattling and piled

high with goods and people, as they pull onto the highway,

to indicate as much as possible that this departure of the

Joad family is but part of a mass movement of jalopies and

families. The signs of towns on U.S. Highway 66 flash past--

CHECOTAH, OKLAHOMA CITY, BETHANY.

This dissolves to a HIGHWAY. It is late afternoon. The Joad

truck pulls of the paved highway and stops. The men leap

down quickly from the truck, all but Pa, who lifts Grampa in

his arms and then lowers him slowly, gently into Tom's arms.

In TOM'S arms Grampa is whimpering feebly.

With a quilt pulled from the truck Ma runs ahead as Tom

carries Grampa toward a clump of woods back off the highway.

The others get down soberly from the truck, all but Granma,

who is dozing. Cars pass-a fast car passing a jalopy. Tom is

letting the old man down gently as Ma adjusts the quilt on

the ground. Death is in Grampa's eyes as he looks up dimly

at them.

The scene dissolves to an insert of a NOTE. It is written

awkwardly in pencil on the flyleaf of a Bible. Tom's voice

recites the words.

A GRAVE, at night. In the clump of woods, lighted by two

lanterns, The Joad tribe stands reverently around an open

grave. Having read the note, Tom puts it in a small fruit

jar and kneels down and, reaching into the grave, places it

on Grampa's body.

The scene fades out.

HIGHWAY 66, in daylight, fades in: an Oklahoma stretch,

revealing a number of jalopies rattling westward. The Joad

truck approaches.

In the FRONT SEAT OF THE TRUCK Tom is now driving. Granma is

dozing again, and Ma is looking thoughtfully ahead.

As the truck slows to a stop a motorcycle cop approaches

after them. Looking back, Tom sees him bearing toward them.

He looks grimly at Ma.

The cop looks startled, puzzled, but Tom shrugs a disclaimer

for responsibility in that quarter.

As Ma helps Granma out the other side, Tom and the cop

exchange a glance and snother shrug at the foibles of women

and then look studiedly into space.

The scene dissolves to a MONTAGE: superimposed on the marker

of U.S. Highway 66 an assortment of roadside signs flashes

by: Bar-B-Q, Joe's Eats, Dr. Pepper, Gas, Coca Cola, This

Highway is Patrolled, End of 25 Mile Zone, Lucky Strikes,

Used Cars, Nutburger, Motel, Drive-Inn, Free Water, We Fix

Flats, etc.

A HAND-PAINTED SIGN reads: "CAMP 50." It is night. We hear

the sound of guitar music. In the CAMP GROUND a small wooden

house dominates the scene. There are no facilities; the

migrants simply pitch makeshift tents and park their jalopies

wherever there is a space. It is after supper and a dozen or

more men sit on the steps of the house listening to Connie

play a road song on a borrowed guitar. The music softens the

tired, drawn faces of the men and drives away some of their

shyness. In the dark, outside the circle of light from the

gasoline lantern on the porch, some of the women and children

sit and enjoy the luxury of this relative gaiety. The

proprietor sits tipped back in a straight chair on the porch.

We see the JOAD TENT. Behind their truck, a tarpaulin is

stretched over a rope from tree to tree. Granma lies asleep

on a quilt, stirring fitfully. Ma sits on the ground at her

head, fanning her with a piece of cardboard. Rosasharn lies

flat on her back, hands clasped under her head, looking up

at the stars. The music comes to them pleasantly.

As the music ends we see a GROUP ON THE PORCH STEPS. The men

murmur approbation of Connie's playing.

As they talk, a SECOND MAN, standing on the edge of the group,

begins to grin bitterly. He is much more ragged than the

others.

The GROUP turns to look at the Man.

The Man begins to snigger and then to laugh in a high

whinneying giggle which turns into a fit of coughing. All of

the men are watching him.

At least three-quarters of the men worriedly reach into their

pockets and draw out worn and folded handbills.

There is a long worried silence. The proprietor leans forward

angrily.

He looks around at the men, trying to control his emotions,

and then he walks away into the darkness. There is an uneasy

silence.

They all rise as at a signal, all moved and worried by the

Second Man's outburst. TOM, PA AND CASY move away, worry on

their faces.

The scene dissolves to a MONTAGE: superimposed on the shield

marker of U.S. Highway 66 and the rattling Joad truck the

signs of towns flash by: AMARILLO, VEGA, GLENRIO.

The TRUCK is seen on the HIGHWAY. It is now mountain country--

New Mexico. Then it is seen at a GAS STATION. It is a cheap

two-pump station, hand-painted, dreary, dusty. Huddled next

to it is a hamburger stand. In front of the hamburger stand

is a truck labeled: NEW MEXICO VAN AND STORAGE COMPANY. The

Joads are piling out of their truck. Directed by Ma, Noah

lifts Granma out. The two children scamper around shrieking

because their legs have gone to sleep. Al is preparing to

put water in the radiator. Pa takes out a deep leather pouch,

unties the strings, and begins calculating his money as the

fat proprietor advances.

INSIDE THE HAMBURGER STAND, a standard cheap eatery, Bert is

doing the short orders and Mae is handling the counter. A

nickel phonograph is playing a tune. Bill, a truck driver,

sits at the counter; his partner, Fred, is playing a slot

machine.

He stops. Pa is peering in the screen door. Beside him Ruthie

and Winfield have their noses flattened against the screen.

Mae looks at Pa.

Mae shrugs at the truck drivers, to indicate what she's up

against, while Bert mashes his hamburgers savagely with the

spatula.

Pa and the two children come in as Mae opens a drawer and

pulls out a long waxpaper-covered loaf of bread. The children

have been drawn to the candy showcase and are staring in at

the goodies.

Taking out his pouch, Pa digs into it, feels around with his

fingers for a dime, as he apologizes.

But when he puts the dime down on the counter he has a penny

with it. He is about to drop this back in the pouch when his

eyes fall on the children staring at the candy. Slowly he

moves down to see what they are looking at. Then:

The children look up with a gasp, their big eyes on Mae as

she moves down behind the counter.

Mae looks from the candy to the children. They have stopped

breathing, their eyes on the candy.

He places the penny carefully on the counter and Mae holds

the sticks of candy out to the children. They look up at Pa.

Rigid with embarrassment, they accept the candy, looking

neither at it nor at each other. Pa picks up the loaf of

bread and they scramble for the door. At the door Pa turns

back.

The door slams. Bill turns back from staring after them.

Both reach in their pockets, but when Fred sees what Bill

has put down he reaches again and duplicates it. As they go

out of the door...

As Mae watches them through the window, her eyes warm, Bert

walks around the counter to the three slot machines, a paper

with figures on it in his hand. The truck roars outside and

moves off. Mae looks down again at the coins.

As he looks we see the COINS ON THE COUNTER. They are two

half-dollars.

There is a rattle of coins as Bert hits the jackpot. In his

left hand on the machine is a paper with three columns of

figures on it. The third column is much the longest. He scoops

out the money.

The scene fades out.

The ARIZONA BORDER, in daylight, fades in. It is in a gap in

the mountains and beyond can be seen the Painted Desert. A

border guard halts the Joad truck. He is not as tough as his

words indicate, just curt and matter-of-fact.

The truck rattles into movement.

The scene dissolves to a MONTAGE superimposed on the shield

marker of U.S. Highway 66 and the Joad truck. Signs flash

by: FLAGSTAFF, WATER 5 A GAL, WATER 10 A GAL, WATER 15 A

GAL, and finally, NEEDLES, CALIF.

In the foreground, their backs turned, the Joads stand on

and about their truck looking in a long silence at what can

be seen of California from Needles. Their silence is eloquent.

The faces of the Joads are blank with dismay, for this is an

unattractive sight indeed.

They look at each other in disappointment.

The Joads and the landscape are seen again. Then the scene

dissolves to the BANK OF A RIVER. The camp at Needles is on

the bank of the Colorado River, among some willows. We see

the man of the family sitting chest-deep in the shallow

waters, talking, occasionally ducking their heads under,

reveling in this relief. In the background are the towering

mountains.

They look up as a man and his grown son stand on the bank.

They start to shuck off their clothes. THE MAN, excluding

those undressing, form another scene.

The man and his son sit down in the water.

There is a long silence among the Joads as the man and his

son splash water over their heads.

The man and his son exchange a glance, as though the Joads

had touched on the deadliest of subjects.

There is a disturbed silence as the Joads study the man, but

he obviously has no intention of saying anything more. Finally

Pa turns to his brother.

The scene dissolves to a GAS STATION, at night. The Joad

truck, loaded with goods and people, is last gas and servicing

before the desert. Two white uniformed boys handle the

station. A sign reads: "LAST CHANCE FOR GAS AND WATER." Al

is filling the radiator. Tom is counting out the money for

the gas.

MA AND GRANMA are seen lying on a mattress in the TRUCK.

Granma's eyes are shut. Actually she is near death. Ma keeps

patting her.

The truck moves off.

We see the GAS STATION again with the truck pulling away.

The First Boy, a lad who knows everything, stands looking

after them, shaking his head. His assistant is cleaning up

the pumps.

NOAH is seen hiding behind a corner of the GAS STATION.

Peering out, he sees that the truck has gone. He turns to

walk away into the darkness.

The scene dissolves to a RIVER BANK at night, and Noah is

once more seated in the shallow water, splashing, looking up

at the mountains, content.

The TRUCK is rattling along U.S. Highway 66, across the

desert, in the night. In the DRIVER'S SEAT Tom is driving,

Al and Pa are by his side.

RUTHIE AND WINFIELD huddle together in THE TRUCK, eyes wide

with excitement.

MA AND GRANDMA are seen again. The old woman lies still,

breathing noisily. Ma continues to pat her.

Then we see the TRUCK still churning along Highway 66 by

night. CASY is asleep in the truck, his face wet with sweat.

CONNIE AND ROSASHARN are huddled together, damp and weary.

Her eyes widen with fright as he avoids meeting her glance.

MA AND GRANDMA lie side by side. Ma's hand is on Grandma's

heart. The old woman's eyes are shut and her breathing is

almost imperceptible.

Ma does not answer immediately. Her head lifted, she is

staring at Granma's face. Then slowly she withdraws her hand

from Grandma's heart.

Her head rests again. She lies looking fixedly at the still

face.

The scene dissolves to an INSPECTION STATION, near Daggett,

California, at night. Obeying a sign that reads: "KEEP RIGHT

AND STOP," the Joad truck pulls up under a long shed as two

officers, yawning, come out to inspect it. One takes down

the license number and opens the hood. The people aboard the

truck bestir themselves sleepily.

MA gets down off the truck, her face swollen, her eyes hard.

There is an undercurrent of hysteria in her voice and manner.

The officer lights his flashlight on Granma's face.

Ma climbs back up beside Granma.

The truck starts.

The TRUCK moves away on Highway 66.

The scene dissolves to the TEHACHAPI VALLEY, by day. Taking

it from the book, there is a breath-taking view of the valley

from where Highway 66 comes out of the mountains. This is

the California the Joads have dreamed of, rich and beautiful,

the land of milk and honey. It is just daybreak, with the

sun at the Joad's back. They have pulled off the side of the

road and stopped, just to drink in the sight. They are looking

almost reverently at the sight before them as they climb

stiffly out of the truck.

One by one, they climb down.

He starts back. MA is holding to the rear of the truck, her

face stiff and swollen, her eyes deep-sunk, her limbs weak

and shaky.

With the valley for background, Ma looks down on it.

The scene fades out.

A TOWN STREET, by day, fades in. Down a town or small city

business street, with quite a bit of traffic, comes the Joad

truck being pushed by the Joad men. At the wheel, aiming at

a corner gas station, is Rosasharn, frightened and uncertain,

with Ma beside her on the front seat. In the back Ruthie and

Winfield are delighted with this new form of locomotion.

Crossing the street, a policeman falls into step with Tom.

It is a two-pump station and one of the pumps has a car,

with the attendant servicing it. The Joad truck stops by the

other pump and Tom, wiping his face with his sleeve, grins

and address himself to the policeman. The others stand

listening solemnly in the background.

He strolls away, the Joads looking concernedly after him,

just as the gas station attendant comes briskly to them after

disposing of the other car.

The attendant regards him in disgust.

The scene dissolves to HOOVERVILLE, by day. A large migrant

camp, a typical shanty town of ragged tents and tarpaper

shacks, jalopies and dirty children. A dozen or more children

pause to watch as the Joad truck lumbers down a dirt incline

from the road and stops at the edge of the camp in front of

one of the most miserable of the shacks. The Joads regard

the camp with dismay.

The truck moves into the camp through a lane of children.

The scene dissolves to the JOAD TENT. In front of it, Ma is

on her knees feeding a small fire with broken sticks. On the

fire is a pot of stew. Ruthie and Winfield stand watching

the pot. About fifteen ragged, barefooted children in a half-

circle are now around the fire, their solemn eyes on the pot

of stew. Occasionally they look at Ma, then back at the stew.

Presently one of the older girls speaks.

There is a long silence. Then:

The boy chokes, his lip sticks out.

Pa and John enter.

She is dishing the stew into tin plates. The children's eyes

follow the spoon, and then the first plate, to John. He is

raising the first spoonful to his mouth when he notices them

apparently for the first time. He is chewing slowly, his

eyes on the children, their eyes on his face, when Tom and

Al enter.

The children retreat a step, but no more, and then look

wonderingly at him.

She goes in the tent hurriedly to hide the fact that tears

have come into her eyes. The children pounce on the pot,

silently, too busy digging for the stew to speak.

INSIDE THE TENT they have all finished their stew already.

At the ROAD a new coupe drives off the highway and into the

camp and stops. It contains two men. One gets out.

A GROUP OF MEN are squatting in a half-circle, the usual

pattern for conversation, but they are silent now as their

eyes fix on the man approaching. He is a labor agent.

OUTSIDE THE JOAD TENT the men are looking in the direction

of the group. They start to walk toward it.

AT THE GROUP OF MEN: The agent, wearing a flat-brimmed Stetson

and with his pockets filled with pencils and dog-eared

booklets, looks down at the silent men. All of the men in

the camp are approaching slowly, silently. The women give

their anxious attention in the background. Among the men who

walk up is FLOYD, a grimly disappointed young man.

The squatting men have risen one by one. Their faces are

expressionless because they simply don't know when one of

these calls is genuine or when it isn't. Floyd addresses

them.

The other man gets out of the COUPE. He wears riding breeches

and laced boots, carries a pistol and cartridge belt, and

there is a deputy sheriff's star on his brown shirt. He smiles

thinly and shifts his pistol holster as he starts toward the

group. THE MEN are watching the deputy approach.

The men say nothing.

As the agent gets into the coupe FLOYD'S thumbs hook over

his belt and he looks off, away. TOM'S look away is an answer.

His thumbs also hook over his belt.

He takes hold of Floyd's left arm. At the same time Floyd

swings, smacks him in the face. As the deputy staggers, Tom

sticks out a foot and trips him. Floyd is already running

through the camp. The deputy fires from the ground. There is

a scream. A WOMAN is looking down at her hand, the knuckles

shot away.

The COUPE is seen as the agent steps on the gas to get away.

As Floyd gets in the clear, the DEPUTY, sitting on the ground,

aims his pistol again, slowly, carefully. Behind him Casy

steps up, gauges his distance, and then kicks him square in

the base of the skull. The deputy tumbles over unconscious.

Tom picks up the pistol.

As Tom strides away there is the distant sound of a siren.

Casy empties the gun and throws cartridges and gun aside.

The men, aghast, have been standing back, worried and excited

and apprehensive. They wish nothing like this had happened.

The women have gathered around the wounded woman, who is

sobbing. Now at the sound of the siren everybody begins to

move uncomfortably toward his tent or shack. Al looks

admiringly from Casy to the unconscious deputy.

Everybody has disappeared into his tent but Al and Casy. The

siren draws nearer.

Al heads for the Joad tent and Casy kneels down and lifts

the deputy. He wipes his face clean. The deputy begins to

come to. An open car curves off the highway, stops in the

clearing, and four men with rifles pile out. The deputy sits

rubbing his eyes and Casy stands.

Two of the men have helped the deputy to his feet. He feels

the back of his neck gingerly.

With a deputy on either side of him, Casy climbs in the back

seat. The sickish deputy is helped into the car. The other

man comes running back.

The car starts. CASY and two deputies beside him are revealed

in the back seat. Casy sits proudly, head up, eyes front. On

his lips is a faint smile; on his face, a curious look of

conquest.

Casy sits with eyes front. AT THE WILLOWS, screened by trees

or brush, Tom looks off at the car taking Casy away. Starting

at a sound, he withdraws into the brush as the scene

dissolves.

IN FRONT OF THE JOAD TENT, at night, Ma stands facing Pa and

Al. Rosasharn lies on a pallet, her face in her arms, while

Ruthie and Winfield look on, wide-eyed at the family quarrel.

They stand staring at each other in silence.

At the EDGE OF HOOVERVILLE, Tom is heading for the Joad tent

warily, glancing around constantly, but not running, for

that would draw attention to him.

IN FRONT OF THE JOAD TENT again:

As she gets ready for whatever... IN THE SHADOWS, twenty

feet away from the tent, Tom whistles softly.

IN FRONT OF THE JOAD TENT, all but Ma are looking off. Ma

still eyes Pa.

There is a silence that stops Tom in his rush of preparation.

The scene dissolves to HOOVERVILLE, at night. The jalopies

are lumbering up on the road, one after the other, as the

migrants scatter before the threatened invasion.

IN THE JOAD TRUCK, Tom is helping Rosasharn into the front

seat, beside Ma. The others are aboard except Al. Tom hands

Al a wrench.

In the FRONT SEAT of the truck, Tom drives, Ma sits in the

middle, Rosasharn on the other side.

As he slows down the truck, we see that half of the ROAD is

blocked with boards and red lanterns. a group of men swarm

around the Joad truck as it stops. A leader leans in Tom's

window.

In the FRONT SEAT of the truck Tom's hand reaches for the

jack-handle on the seat at his side but Ma's hand clutches

his arm in a steel grip.

Tom's arm trembles as he tries to pull it away, but Ma holds

on tight.

The TRUCK turns around. In the FRONT SEAT Tom is almost

sobbing with anger as he maneuvers the truck around.

The TRUCK is going back down the road as the scene fades

out.

A MONTAGE fades in: superimposed on growing fields hand-made

signs flash by: NO HELP WANTED, KEEP OUT--THIS MEANS U, NO

WORK, NO HELP WANTED.

Then we see the JOAD TRUCK pulled up off the paved highway,

and jacked up while Tom and Al fix a puncture. Ma is seated

in the front seat with Rosasharn. Pa and Uncle John are

puttering about worriedly.

A BUICK ROADMASTER which has been speeding toward them stops

suddenly. Driving it is a husky man, named Spencer, whose

manner is amiable and disarming.

This is electrifying news, as their faces show.

As they snap into action to get under way again the scene

dissolves to the FRONT SEAT, Al driving, with Ma and Tom

beside him. They are all smiles, their faces glowing with

excitement.

The scene dissolves to the ENTRANCE OF THE HOOPER RANCH in

daylight. A gravel road leads from the paved highway to the

big wire gates, which are enclosed. Along the side of the

paved highway are parked a dozen jalopies, the migrants

sitting soberly in them. Fifty or sixty other migrants line

the gravel road and the junction with the paved highway.

Five jalopies are in line waiting to enter the gates. And

the scene is overwhelmingly policed. There must be ten

motorcycle cops around. Six are dismounted and strolling to

keep order among the migrants along the road. Three, their

motorcycles roaring, flank the line of five jalopies. As the

Joad truck drives up, we see the FRONT SEAT. Tom, Al, and Ma

are beholding the scene with bewilderment.

The motorcycle escort forms around the line of six cars and

a deafening din is raised, of motorcycles, sirens, and an

inexplicable blowing of horns on the jalopies. At the same

time, as the gates open and the six cars start through,

flanked by the motorcycle cops, the migrants begin spasmodic

shouts, but what they say cannot be understood. As the cars

move slowly, Tom and Al in the FRONT SEAT are puzzled and

worried at the demonstration.

AT THE GATES the heckling from the bystanders is spasmodic,

not continuous, as the six jalopies in line pass through the

gate into the Hooper ranch. Two men stand beside the gates

with shotguns. They keep calling.

The Joad truck passes through the gates. IN THE HOOPER RANCH

the six jalopies are halted at the end of a camp street. The

houses are small, square blocks, set in line. One, a little

larger, is a grocery store. Casually about are men in pairs

with metal stars on their shirts and shotguns in their hands.

Two bookkeepers are already passing down the cars and jotting

down information.

He moves to the next car. The Joad truck starts...

AT HOUSE 63, as the Joad truck pulls up, two deputies

approach. They look closely into each face as the Joads pile

out. One of the deputies has a long list in his hand.

Ma and Rosasharn step inside the house. It is filthy. A rusty

tin stove resting on four bricks is all the one room contains.

Ma and Rosasharn stand looking around at it. Finally:

OUTSIDE, a clerk with glasses appears, pushing a cart loaded

with three-gallon buckets.

With their buckets they shuffle away toward the peach trees--

Tom, Pa, Uncle John, Al, and the two children struggling

with the enormous containers.

The scene dissolves to the INTERIOR OF HOUSE 63 at night, a

lantern lighting the scene. Sitting wherever they can, the

Joads have finished their supper of hamburgers. And grateful

they are too, for the meat.

IN THE RANCH STREET. There is a faint moonlight, but not

much, and little sound from the other houses as Tom strolls

down the street.

NEAR THE GATE: beyond, cars pass. As Tom approaches the gate

a flashlight plays on his face suddenly and a guard rises

from a box.

The guard watches him as he walks back and then douses his

flashlight.

At a SECTION OF WIRE FENCE, watching his chance, moving

silently, Tom drops on the ground, on his back, gets his

head under the bottom wire, and pushes himself under and

outside. Rising, he crosses the paved highway.

AN EMBANKMENT across the road from the wire fence: Tom

clambers down it, moving quietly. He picks his way down the

shallow ravine.

A TENT: there is a light inside and there are the shadows of

figures. In the background, beyond the tent, is the silhouette

of a small concrete bridge spanning a small stream. Following

a trail, Tom enters and approaches the tent. (The opening is

away from him.) IN FRONT OF THE TENT, a man sitting on a box

looks up suspiciously as Tom enters. His name is Joe.

A head sticks out of the tent. Until he speaks, Tom does not

recognize Casy.

INSIDE THE TENT, three other men sit on the ground as Casy

brings Tom in. One's name is Frank.

They listen. Then:

Frank's head sticks in the door. His voice is an excited

whisper.

Quickly Casy turns the light down and out. He gropes for the

door, followed by Tom and the other man.

IN FRONT OF THE TENT:

There are night sounds but little else to be distinguished.

Casy leads the way softly. THE BRIDGE SPAN is seen from the

stream as Casy, Tom, and the other man wade carefully toward

it.

UNDER THE BRIDGE it is almost black as they creep through

the culvert. Just as Casy and Tom step out from under the

bridge on the other side, a blinding flashlight hits them,

lighting them like day.

Halted, uncertain, they stand as three men with stars on

their coats and pickhandles in their hands slide down the

EMBANKMENT. Two of them hold lighted flashlights.

There are faint responses from a distance. CASY AND TOM are

alone. The others have fled. The deputies approach, their

lights on Casy and Tom.

He swings the pickhandle. Casy dodges but the stick cracks

his skull. He falls face down out of the light. The deputies

watch for a moment but Casy doesn't stir.

Bending over, their bodies hide Casy.

TOM, seen close, is breathing hard, his eyes glistening.

As the deputies straighten up, Tom steps forward, grabs the

pickhandle from the man who felled Casy, and swings. The

blow strikes the deputy's arm, sending his flashlight flying,

and the scene is in semi-darkness as Tom swings again. There

is a grunt and a groan as the deputy goes down. Then all is

confusion. Backing away, swinging the pickhandle, Tom bolts,

splashes a few yards through the stream, turns and gains a

better start by throwing the pickhandle at his pursuers.

They duck, and Tom disappears into the night. The other men

rush through the scene in pursuit.

THE SECOND DEPUTY is seen bending over the body of the man

Tom laid out.

The light flashes on the man's face.

TOM is seen crashing through the bushes, his face bloody.

The scene fades out.

THE EXTERIOR OF HOUSE 63 fades in. It is day. Ma comes down

the street with a bundle under her arm and enters the house.

INSIDE HOUSE 63, Rosasharn sits by the window as Ma enters.

Rosasharn takes her post at the door as Ma kneels on the

floor beside Tom, puts down the rag bundle, and gets a basin.

Tom, who is under a quilt, is with his back alone visible.

She speaks softly, guardedly, as she bathes his face.

Tom puts his head under the quilt. Ma turns, faces the door,

her body protectively between Tom and whatever threatens.

OUTSIDE HOUSE 63, the bookkeeper has encountered the

newcomers.

At night, the TRUCK is backed up to the door of House 63; it

is already loaded. Ma is speaking in a low voice to Tom, who

is peering out from under a mattress in the truck.

Tom disappears. Ma turns, her back to the truck. The guard

plays his flashlight on the Joads, who stand watching him

ominously.

Quickly, Al is in the driver's seat, with Ma and Pa beside

him. The truck rattles into motion and moves down the street.

AT THE GATES TO THE RANCH another guard flashes a light as

Al stops the car.

He opens the gate and the truck goes through. It turns from

the gravel road onto the paved highway.

IN THE FRONT SEAT OF THE TRUCK:

Al shows his pleased pride in her quiet approval.

The TRUCK is rattling along the highway.

Next, it is day, and the TRUCK is still churning along.

In the FRONT SEAT, Tom is driving, his cap pulled as far

down as possible over his wounded cheek. Rosasharn has taken

Pa's place and is leaning wearily against Ma's shoulder.

The TRUCK keeps moving along.

Then it is night, and the TRUCK is still making distance.

On a COUNTRY ROAD, in grey dawn, with a deafening clank under

the hood, the Joad truck pulls to a stop off the side of the

road. Al is driving. Asleep in Tom's arm in the front seat,

Ma stirs awake as Al turns off the ignition and gets out. He

lifts the hood.

He pulls out the pieces. Tom gets out and takes off the

radiator cap. There is a geyser of steam. In the back of the

truck the others stand looking on, sleepy-eyed.

They all look around. At first they find nothing in sight.

Al and Tom look at each other in disgust.

All look. Tom climbs on the running board the better to see.

As Al starts the truck, the scene dissolves to a weather-

beaten wooden sign: "PERMANENT CAMP NO. 9"  "DEPT. OF

AGRICULTURE"

We see the GATE TO THE GOVERNMENT CAMP, a wide gate in a

high wire fence, with a caretaker's shack to one side of the

gate. The caretaker stands beside his shack as the Joad truck

swings off the road, hits an unnoticed rut that bounces the

whole truck off the ground, and stops.

In the FRONT SEAT Al leans angrily out of the driver's window.

Tom is keeping his face away from the caretaker's line of

vision.

Al starts climbing out. Pa jumps down from the truck.

As Ma, Pa, and Al look at each other in almost incredulous

bewilderment, Tom climbs out of the truck.

INSIDE THE SHACK, Tom enters warily, alert for any indication

that either his name or his scar may have been learned and

telegraphed here. But the caretaker obviously attaches no

significance to either. The shack is bare but for a cot, a

table, a chair, and an electric light. The caretaker is seated

at the table, pen in hand, a soiled ledger open, when Tom

enters.

THE JOAD TRUCK is seen in front of its camp site as the Joads

descend.

INSIDE THE CARETAKER'S SHACK:

As he exits we see the GOVERNMENT CAMP, with Tom coming out

of the shack, amazement still on his face. As he walks slowly

down the main camp street we share the revelation of the

place to him. It is nearly daylight. Roosters crow in the

distance. The street is neat and orderly in a military way,

its cleanliness in sharp contrast to anything he has known

before. Inside the tents people are stirring. In front of

one tent a woman is cooking breakfast. A baby is in her arms.

As he walks on, Tom draws a breath of exultation. As he moves

on, looking around, we see the EXTERIOR OF SANITARY UNIT NO.

4, a cheap frame building the purpose of which is pretty

obvious. Ruthie, warily alert lest she be caught, is peering

in the door. She looks a long time and then she runs out of

the scene.

WINFIELD is seen asleep in a quilt on the ground when Ruthie

enters and rousts him out.

He stumbles after her.

THE EXTERIOR OF SANITARY UNIT NO. 4. Ruthie is putting on a

bold front as she leads Winfield into sight but she is still

alert for interference.

He follows her into the unit, big-eyed with excitement and

apprehension. There is a silence. Then:

Another silence. Then:

Another silence. Then:

There is the sound of a toilet flushing. It is a cheap toilet

and it is a loud flush which eventually ends in a long

refilling of the tank just as loudly. There is a paralyzed

silence. Then:

Terrified, Winfield comes dashing out of the unit but Ruthie

grabs him just outside the door. Beginning to cry, he

struggles to get away.

He nods quickly. Then Ruthie begins to walk away with what

she fancies is an innocent, nonchalant stroll, yawning

casually. Sniffling a little, Winfield mimics her, a very

innocent walk and yawn indeed.

The scene dissolves to a DITCH. Alongside the ditch are some

lengths of concrete pipe. Tom and the two Wallaces are in

the ditch, Tom and Tim picking, Wilkie shoveling.

Mr. Thomas, the farmer, a stock man wearing a paper sun

helmet, enters. His face is worried as he squats down beside

the ditch. What he has come to say has taken some effort and

he is still uncertain and annoyed. The men stop work.

They shake hands.

The scene dissolves to the GATE TO THE CAMP, at night. It is

Saturday evening, the night of the dance. Glaring electric

lights hang over the open gate. Parked jalopies line the

highway as the invited guests, small farmers and migrants

from other camps and their families, arrive to be greeted

and checked by a committee of three men.

There is an air of eager anticipation, of gay celebration,

and everyone is in his or her best--the men in clean washed

overalls, clean shirts, some with ties, their hair damp and

slicked down, the women in their nicest. Through the gate,

inside the camp, can be seen the outdoor dance floor, brightly

lighted, with the camp musicians already tuning up, and around

the dance floor scores of wide-eyed children.

INSIDE THE GATE TO THE CAMP, we see Wilkie and a dark-

complexioned man named Jule standing among a group inside

watching the arrivals. They watch sharply, eyeing everyone,

listening to every credential. As his employer, Thomas, comes

through the gate with his wife, Wilkie grins and greets him

with a handshake.

We see the DANCE FLOOR, and after three pats of the foot, to

get the tempo, the home talent dance orchestra swings into

music.

INSIDE THE JOAD TENT, Rosasharn dressed in her nicest, sits

gripping her hands together, the music seeming to bring her

to the verge of tears.

Drying her hands, Ma sits beside Rosasharn and takes her in

her arms.

Smiling mysteriously, Ma fishes in a pocket in her dress and

brings out the envelope of her treasures. From it she produces

the earrings and holds them up in front of Rosasharn's wide

eyes.

They smile at each other, proud in the luxury of ornaments.

Down the road from the GATE a touring car with six men pulls

of the pavement and stops. Three men get out. They are

bareheaded and dressed similar to the other migrants. They

stroll down the highway toward the gate. The other men,

deputies, sit watching them.

WITHIN THE GATE:

The three men from the touring car are at the gate. Wilkie

and Jule watch them.

The three men stroll past Wilkie and Jule, whose eyes follow

them.

Wilkie moves after them.

We see the DANCE FLOOR. The musicians are at it and the

fiddler is calling turns.

Well in front, among the older folks and children who surround

the floor, are Ma and Rosasharn, clinging close. A young man

stops in front of them.

As Rosasharn's eyes drop. Ma bends toward her, a shy smile

on her face.

The three men stroll into sight and stand watching the

dancing. One glances at Ma and Rosasharn but does not speak.

Ma has smiled back at him.

WILKIE AND JACKSON are seen; removed somewhat from the dance

floor they are peering in the direction of the three men.

We find ourselves INSIDE TIM WALLACE'S TENT.  The five members

of the central committee, Tim Wallace, chairman, look grave

as a 15-year-old boy reports.

There is a grim pause at this news. Tim's eyes go hard.

Wilkie makes a mocking military salute as he and Tom exit.

The committee men look worriedly after them.

In front of the JOAD TENT, dressed to kill, is Al, ready for

the festivities. He wears a tight-fitting wool suit, a tie

on his shirt, yellow shoes, and his hair is damp and slicked

down. He rubs his hands together in anticipation as he strolls

in the direction of the dance floor.

At ANOTHER TENT, a blonde girl sits on a box as Al enters.

Casually he throws open his coat, revealing a vivid striped

shirt. This is designed to stun his quarry.

A fat woman thrusts her head out of the tent.

Shrugging, Al winks at the girl and moves on, stepping and

moving his shoulders and snapping his fingers in time to the

music, a very gay fellow indeed. The blonde girl's eyes follow

him. Then she turns and glances cautiously toward the tent.

ON THE DANCE FLOOR, we see Ma and Rosasharn as Tom enters

and stands between them. This is during a pause between dances

and only a few couples stand on the floor waiting for the

music to begin again. We also see the three men very casually

looking around--but no more casual looking than Wilkie,

standing just behind them, idly whistling.

The music starts again, once more the dancers move onto the

dance floor. The three men exchange a glance and step casually

to the edge of the dancing space, one in the lead. They survey

the scene, but for the moment make no further move. The

atmosphere is tense.

AL, taking the blonde girl's hand, steps onto the dance floor.

Encircling her waist, they begin to dance. They are a smooth,

rhythmic couple who move as one being.

At this moment the leader of the three men (the other two

directly behind him) enters the scene.

Behind the three men a solid wall of migrants are closing in

quietly, Tom and Wilkie in the middle.

His fist goes back, his left hand reaches for Al's collar.

At the same instant Tom grabs him, Wilkie claps his hand

over the leader's mouth, at least fifteen other men have

similarly collard the other two invaders, and they are all

lifted bodily. There is not a sound as the three men, held

in iron grips, are whisked from the dance floor and into the

crowd.

Two touring cars have stopped in front of the closed GATE

and the deputies have drawn guns.

As the deputies, puzzled and uncertain, look toward the DANCE

FLOOR, we see the music, the dancing, the gaiety continuing

as if nothing had happened.

WITHIN THE JOAD TENT at night, several hours later: the tent

is black, Tom strikes a match. From a piece of wood on the

ground or floor he selects one from several cigarette butts

and lights it. While he is doing so, he lifts his head

suddenly, and listens.

In the CAMP STREET we catch sight of legs walking, the ground

lighted from a flashlight. Two pairs of the legs wear state

policemen's leather leggings. The third pair are the

caretaker's. They stop behind a car. The flashlight plays on

the license plate. One of the state cops leans down to copy

the license number in a booklet. Then they move on.

TOM has lifted the edge of the tent a trifle, enough to see

out by flattening his head on the floor. The LEGS are now

seen at the Joad jalopy. The light is on the license plate.

The cop leans over and copies the number. They move on.

TOM, lowering the edge of the tent, sits up. Quietly he pushes

aside the piece of carpet that covers him. He is wearing his

clothes. We see the policeman's CAR at the caretaker's hut.

The two policemen get into the car.

The car drives off, leaving the caretaker looking somberly

after it.

WITHIN THE JOAD TENT, his cap on, fully dressed for travel,

Tom is tieing the ends of the carpet into a shoulder bundle.

Rising, he slings it across his shoulder. As he tiptoes toward

the door:

For a moment he looks into the darkness in her direction.

She has risen, pulling the quilt around her. He takes her by

the hand.

They go out. Tom leads Ma around BEHIND THE TENT, to a SECTION

OF WIRE FENCE. There is a bench there. Tom leads Ma to it

and sits her down. He sits beside her.

He walks away. She stands looking after him. He's leaving

her forever--she knows it. She lifts her hand and waves. She

tries to smile. TOM turns, waves, smiles. His lips form the

words: "Good-by, Ma." Then he strides away into the darkness.

The scene fades out.

The JOAD TRUCK fades in. It stands loaded in front on the

Joad tent while Al, Pa, Uncle John, Ma, and the little fellas

pile in the last article in a fury of excitement. Beyond, in

the background, another jalopy is being prepared for travel

with the same feverish haste. It is day.

Other jalopies in the background are being readied for leaving--

an excited, hopeful exodus on a new report of work.

Ma comes out of the tent supporting Rosasharn tenderly. For

the plumpness has gone from the girl and she is thin again,

her face drawn and unhappy, her eyes swollen with weeping

and suffering.

Pa takes Rosasharn's other arm. He and Al and Uncle John

help Rosasharn onto the truck. She lies down on the mattress,

her face away from them.

The truck wabbles into motion. Al races the engine. It nearly

crashes another wheezing jalopy at the corner. When it turns

the corner we see the GATE, and a line of loaded jalopies

that ride out to the highway. The caretaker waves and the

migrants wave back.

The Joad truck turns onto the highway. In the FRONT SEAT Al

is driving, Ma in the middle, Pa on the outside.

Ma places her hand on one of Pa's and pats it.

The TRUCK, steaming and rattling and churning, passes the

Chevrolet and Al leans out of the window and waves a jeering

hand at it. As the Joad truck pulls in front, we see Ruthie

and Winfield laughing with excitement over the triumph. Even

Uncle John shares the general satisfaction. Grinning, he

waves. As the truck moves away along the road, all three and

beaming and waving. Further along the truck passes a sign on

the side of the road. It says NO HELP WANTED.

The scene fades out.

