T H E   G R E E N   M I L E

Screenplay by Frank Darabont

from the novel by Stephen King

First Draft

11/4/97

"We each owe a death, there are no exceptions..."

--------------------------------------------------------------

A SONG BEGINS, distant as a faded memory on an old Victrola:

Once I built a railroad, made it run... Made it race against

time...Once I built a railroad, now it's done...Brother, can

you spare a dime...

Opening credit sequence

plays against footage of the Great Depression, images

haunting and sepia-toned, defining an era. The bread

lines...the soup kitchens...the dust bowl refugees heading

west with their possessions on their backs and no hope in

their eyes...the strutting gangster royalty flaunting their

bootleg riches...an entire generation of lost youth riding

the rials...the U.S. army troops raining truncheon blows on

the half-starved and forgotten veterans of World War One as

"Hooverville" is set afire in the very shadow of the nation's

capitol...

All these faces, all these lives, in a world not really so

very long ago...

EXT. FIELD - DAY(SLOW MOTION)

...where cattails sway in the sepia-toned heat. A small scrap

of fabric is snagged in the nettles, fluttering languidly...

COLOR BLEEDS SLOWLY IN as mosquitoes swarm and dragonflies

skitter, showing the fabric scrap to be pale yellow...

Suddenly, a MAN WITH A SHOTGUN comes crashing through the

cattails, wiping through frame and exiting...

...then ANOTHER MAN...and ANOTHER...armed with rifles,

plowing through the brush, exiting frame...

...and now comes KLAUS DETTERICK, a farmer one step above

shirt-tail poor, a double-barrel shotgun in the crook of his

arm. He pauses, horrified, seeing the scrap of cloth. He

pulls it loose, turns back, screaming something in anguish...

...and still more men come crashing into view, flooding by us

with dreamlike, slow-motion grace. ONE MAN is leading a team

of DOGS, trying to untangle the leads. DEPUTY ROB McGEE is

shouting for everybody to stay together...

...and under it all, we hear a sibilant, frightening whisper:

And off that horrible voice, we

INT. GEORGIA PINES NURSING HOME - MORNING(PRESENT DAY)

A CLOCK RADIO spews the morning weather report, abruptly

pulling us into the present with a prediction of rain. PAUL

EDGECOMB, late 70's/early 80's, wakes to another day...

INT. PAUL'S ROOM - MORNING

Paul stands at his bathroom mirror, meticulously buttoning

his shirt. He picks up a hairbrush, starts tidying his hair...

INT. CORRIDOR - MORNING

THE OLD AND INFIRM haunt these corridors like ghosts. A WOMAN

inches along on a walker. A MAN shuffles by with a rolling

I.V. stand. The floor is a limey, institutional green.

Paul comes into view, spry for his age, murmurs an occasional

greeting.

INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - MORNING

DOZENS OF RETIREES are having breakfast, sipping weak coffee

or tea. Some chat and gossip, other are content to keep their

own company, some just stare slackly into space.

Paul enters, sees ELAINE CONNELLY sitting with a few other

ladies, sipping tea. She's 80, refined and elegant, his best

friend here. She gives him a good-morning smile. He gives her

a rakish wink in return, which makes her smiles all the more.

Paul reaches past the people at the counter and sneaks two

pieces of cold leftover toast off a serving plate. He tosses

Elaine another look--catch ya later--and exits.

INT. HALLWAY PAST KITCHEN - MORNING

Paul slips to the back door unnoticed. Identical red plastic

rain ponchos line the wall on pegs. He helps himself to one

and eases outside, making good his escape.

EXT. NURSING HOME - ESTABLISHING - MORNING

Nestled in a valley of wooded hills, a drizzly mist rolling

over the treetops.

Paul appears f.g., coming up the ridge in his borrowed

poncho. He looks back at the valley below, inhales deeply--

this is a man who loves his walks.

He pulls a piece of toast from his pocket and starts to

nibble as he presses up on the ridge...

Low angle: nursing home and ridge beyond

...and we see Paul from a distance, just a speck trudging up

toward the treeline. A PICKUP TRUCK rumbles into frame and

parks, a bumper sticker looming large: "I Have Seen God and

His Name Is Newt Gingrich".

BRAD DOLAN gets out, an orderly in his late 20's/early 30's,

arriving for work in jeans and cheesy plaid shirt. He gazes

up toward the ridge, scowling and muttering softly:

He slams the door and heads for the nursing home...

EXT. WOODS - MORNING

...as CAMERA BOOMS DOWN through the trees to find Paul

wandering a wooded path, munching a tidbit of toast, looking

for all the world like Red Riding Hood in his plastic poncho.

It's silent here, like a church. The only sounds we hear are

the twittering of the birds and the hammering of the

woodpecker.

A RUSTLING SOUND makes Paul freeze. He turns, becomes

transfixed. Softly:

Reverse angle

reveals a magnificent BUCK, not twenty feet away, misty

breath punching the cold morning air. They watch each other

for an endless moment, both standing stock still...

...and then the animal bounds away, vanishing into the

foliage. Paul lets out a breath, shakes his head in wonder.

He takes another bite of toast, moves on...

...and WE PAN WITH HIM to reveal a pair of old wooden storage

shacks along the path up ahead.

INT. SHACK - MORNING

Dark in here, cobwebby and decrepit. We see Paul approaching

outside the grimy window. He steps up to the glass and shades

his eyes, peering curiously in as we

EXT. NURSING HOME - DAY

Paul approaches the back door, returning from his walk. He

reaches for the knob...and a figure in white lunges from

behind the dumpster to grab his wrist. He whirls, gasping in

fright--it's Brad Dolan, wearing his orderly's uniform.

Paul tries to pull away, but Dolan's got him tight.

Brad's eyes keep shifting--he obviously doesn't mind abusing

the elderly as long as he doesn't get caught doing it.

Brad lashes out and grabs Paul's other hand, which he's been

holding tightly clenched shut.

Paul uncurls his fingers, revealing the crushed remnants of

a bit of toast, his palm slick with a greasy oleo smear.

They turn. Elaine stands just inside the screen door with a

cup of tea. Brad's eyes become calculated, wondering how much

she's seen. Elaine keeps her tone level, betraying nothing:

Brad lets Paul loose, leans close:

Brad walks off. Paul turns, watches him go. The screen door

opens and Elaine steps out, her face pale. Paul gives her a

strained, though grateful, smile as we

INT. TV ROOM - DAY

Jerry Springer's on the tube, whipping his studio audience

into a frenzy. PAN OFF TO REVEAL DOZENS OF OLD FOLKS watching

on couches and folding chairs. An old black fellow named PETE

is grousing to a GROUP OF ELDERLY LADIES...

...and WE CONTINUE PANNING to Paul and Elaine sitting near

the back, talking quietly as Paul rubs his bruised hand:

Pete

is at the TV, switching channels while:

He finds the Movie Classic channel, which is playing an old

black and white musical--"Top Hat," with Fred Astaire and

Ginger Rogers. A delighted reaction:

Paul

idly shifts his gaze to the TV...and his expression goes

slack with recognition and dismay. Elaine sees the look in

his eyes.

He glances away...even briefly considers walking out...but in

the end, he can't help himself. The past just caught up with

him with a freight-train wallop, and, for one, he decides to

ride the rails...

He looks back at the TV. On screen, Fred and Ginger have

begun their famous "Cheek to Cheek" number, with Astaire

singing in that sublime, easy-go-lucky way of his:

SLOW PUSH IN on Paul, watching. He'd like to take his eyes

off the screen, but the movie has him in a grip tighter than

Brad Dolan's. Elaine is watching him with puzzled concern:

No response. All he can hear is that music, all he can see

are those dancers. The figures on TV are gliding with

ghostlike grace in their silvery, phosphor-dot world of long

ago...

Paul abruptly bursts into tears.

The room goes quiet, everything comes to a standstill. All

eyes turn, some concerned, others merely curious. Paul just

sits sobbing into his hands, shoulders heaving.

Another orderly appears--Brad Dolan. He puts his hand on

Paul's shoulder and leans close, feigning concern.

Elaine shoves his hand away, eyes flashing with anger.

Brad back off with a "hey, suit yourself" gesture. Elaine

helps Paul to his feet and leads him out.

INT. SUN ROOM - DAY

Paul is staring out the windows, pensive and drained. It's

raining now, pattering the glass and the lawn beyond. Elaine

waits across from him, wishing he would speak. Softly:

She reaches out, gently takes his hand.

Paul wonders if he's even up to talking about it after all

this time...and decides that perhaps he is:

This does come as a surprise. She shakes her head.

In blackness, a title card appears:

EXT. GEORGIA COUNTRYSIDE - DAY (1935)

HUNDREDS OF PRISONERS work the fields, pickaxes rising and

falling in waves, a prison song being sung in cadence with

the work. GUARDS patrol on horseback, rifles aimed at the sky.

A late 20's Ford PRISON TRUCK comes chugging into view along

the road, kicking up a long trail of dust in the heat. It

seems to be riding unusually low on its rear suspension.

EXT. COLD MOUNTAIN PENITENTIARY - ESTABLISHING - DAY

A Depression-era prison in the south. The prison truck sways

down the rutted dirt road toward the main gate...

INT. E BLOCK TOILET - DAY

...while Paul Edgecomb, early 40's, stands in a cramped

toilet in his guard's uniform, trying to piss. His face is

pained, his forehead beaded with sweat.

INT. E BLOCK (THE GREEN MILE) - DAY

BRUTUS HOWELL(nicknamed "Brutal" for his intimidating size,

but he's actually rather thoughtful by nature) stands at the

entry door of the cellblock, peering out through a viewing

slot. He sees the prison truck arrive at the main gate.

He turns and nods to fellow guard DEAN STANTON sitting at the

duty desk, then cross the Green Mile--a wide corridor of

faded green linoleum running some sixty paces top to bottom,

with four large cells to a side.

Brutal steps to the bathroom, listen a moment, knocks softly.

Brutal waits patiently, a bit embarrassed. He finally hears

a THIN TRICKLE, accompanied by a stifled groan of pain.

The door opens, revealing Paul's pale and sweaty face.

They hear the truck HONKING as it rumbles up outside. Paul

gives them a nod to resume their positions. Paul walks down

the Mile, passing the cells where two inmates reside--the

first is ARLEN BITTERBUCK, a Washita Cherokee; the second is

EDUARD DELACROIX("DEL"), a skinny Cajun.

Paul arrives at the end of the Mile, takes up a position at

an empty cell. (Down at this end, past the cells, is E

Block's version of the "hole" -- a padded room where violent

inmates are sent to cool off. It isn't used very often...in

fact, at the moment, it's doubling as storage space.)

Brutal

peers out the viewing slot as the truck stops outside.

GUARDS PERCY WETMORE AND HARRY TERWILLIGER OF E BLOCK emerge

from the back of the truck and step down, turn back...

Tighter angle on back of truck

We get our first glimpse of the new inmate as a pair of

GIGANTIC BLACK FEET step down into the yard...and the rear of

the truck bounces back up on its springs where it belongs.

Brutal

sees what's coming, eyes widening slightly.

Brutal tosses him a look--just wait. He swings the door open

in a hot flood of daylight, giving us our first good look at:

John coffey

is a huge black man, nearly 7 feet tall and 300 pounds, his

massive head shiny and bald, his skin a tapestry of old

scars, his prison overalls (the biggest size they had) ending

at mid-calf. He looks dull and confused, as if wondering

where he is and how he got there. Percy and Harry lead him

toward E Block in shackles. Percy's got his hickory baton out

of it custom-made holster, hollering:

Inside the cellblock

Paul can't see them approach from where he stands, but he can

certainly hear Percy:

Up by the door, Brutal just rolls his eyes. Percy is the

first one through the door, still hollering...

...then Coffey enters, ducking low to get through, his shadow

blotting out Brutal and Dean as his massive frame fills the

door. Everything hangs suspended for a moment, a look of

"hold shit" written on everybody's faces. Percy keeps yanking

on the big man's cuffs, leading him along with a cry of:

Percy falls reproachfully silent. Paul doesn't dignify it,

just motions for them to come on. The procession comes down

the Mile, with Brutal and Dean bringing up rear.

Coffey shakes his head slowly. Paul takes the clipboard

transfer papers from Harry, turns and enters the cell.

Coffey just stands outside the cell and waits, as if he

doesn't understand the concept. Paul motions him to come on

in. Coffey starts to comply, but Percy raps him smartly with

the tip of his hickory baton to get him moving faster.

Coffey flinches, enters the cell. Paul stares angrily at

Percy, who stands slapping his hickory baton against the palm

of his hand like a man with a toy he's itching to use.

Percy flushes red, the baton hovering near his palm. He looks

like he's about to say something, but thinks better of it and

stalks angrily up the Mile instead...

...and sees Del at his bars, smiling. Infuriated, Percy

swings his baton and smashes Del's fingers with a LOUD CRACK.

Del jerks back, howling in pain:

Percy throws Paul a look of disdain--your block, huh? He

swaggers out. Del's on his knees, weeping from the pain:

Del falls silent, moaning over his hand. Paul turns to

Coffey, who looks unsettled by all the commotion.

Coffey nods. Harry enters to remove Coffey's shackles.

Coffey shakes his head. Harry steps out.

Coffey considers this carefully, puzzled.

Paul sees he isn't joking, continues:

Coffey doesn't miss a beat, as if he's been waiting to ask:

Paul blinks. It's the last thing he expected. Coffey smiles

uneasily, as if they might think him foolish for asking.

Paul looks to his men. The guards are trading glances.

Coffey looks confused. Paul points to the lights lining the

ceiling of the Green Mile in wire mesh cages.

Coffey nods, relieved. Then he surprises everybody by

offering Paul his hand, as if to show proper manners. Paul

hesitates, oddly touched, then surprised his men even more by

accepting. Coffey's hand swallows his. Coffey shakes gently,

lets go.

Paul steps from the cell. Brutal slides the door shut, locks

it. Coffey stands a moment as if unsure what to do, then

sinks onto the cot with his hands clasped between his knees.

He looks up at Paul, his voice soft as a whisper:

Paul turns, leads his men up the Mile...

PAUL'S INNER OFFICE

...and they enter a few moments later. Paul is furious, but

keeping a lid on his temper:

This makes Brutal snort, breaking the tension--the others

can't help smiling.

Harry tosses a pair of manila envelopes bound with rubber

bands on the desk before Paul--Coffey's file.

EXT. E BLOCK PRISON YARD - DAY

A small are reserved for inmates of the Mile, fenced-off from

the main prison yard. Arlen Bitterbuck walks the perimeter

under the watchful eyes of guard BILL DODGE.

We find Paul sitting by himself on the bleachers with

Coffey's file on his knees, thoughtfully unwrapping his brown-

bagged sandwich. PUSH SLOWLY IN as he begins to read...

EXT. DETTERICK FARM - DAWN (FLASHBACK)

...and we see Klaus Detterick walk from his house to the barn

with a milking pail, a solitary figure against a brightening

horizon. He disappears into the barn...

...and we hold for a long moment, the house silent

b.g.,chickens clucking and scratching in the front yard...

...until a WOMAN'S SCREAM shatters the silence. Klaus

reappears, dropping the pail, running toward the house...

PAUL ON BLEACHERS

...as Paul turns the page, keeps reading...

INT. DETTERICK HOUSE - DAWN (FLASHBACK)

...and Klaus bursts in to find his wife MARJORIE absolutely

frantic with terror:

She drags him through the house to a screened-off porch area

where their 12 year old son HOWIE is pointing and shouting--

--and Klaus freezes there, stunned to see blood spattered on

the floor and the screen door hanging off its hinges...

PAUL ON BLEACHERS

...as Paul absently takes another bite of his sandwich, not

really tasting it, keeps reading...

INT. DETTERICK HOUSE - DAWN (FLASHBACK)

...plunging us back into the screaming chaos: Klaus grabbing

up shotgun shells, Howie loading the .22 rifle he got for

Christmas, Marjorie sobbing incoherently...

...and she goes stumbling through the house, grabbing for the

phone as her men disappear toward the porch b.g.:

OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

Klaus and his son race from the house, following spatters of

blood across the yard...

PAUL ON THE BLEACHERS

...as Paul lets out a long breath, turns the page...

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD/FIELD - DAY (FLASHBACK)

---and we see CARS AND TRUCKS pulling up, MEN jumping out

with rifles, pouring down the incline toward the field where

Klaus is hollering and waving his arms. Deputy McGee comes

sliding down from the road, taking charge at the top of his

lungs--

--and the dogs come bounding out of the back of a truck,

howling down the incline to lead the chase...

VARIOUS ANGLES

...which takes us through the cattails and bulrushes...to the

spot where Klaus finds the little scrap of pale yellow

fabric, turns and screams...

...and they keep going, stopping abruptly as they find: A

blood-drenched area of tramped grass. A little girl's bloody

nightgown hangs in the low branches of a tree. Some of these

strong men look like they might throw up or faint at the

sight of it. Their blood freezes in their veins as an INHUMAN

HOWLING commences up ahead. It's like nothing they've ever

heard before, raising the hackles of men and dogs alike.

PAUL ON BLEACHERS

...as Paul quietly turns another page, shaking his head...

EXT. FIELD - DAY (FLASHBACK)

The men reload their weapons. Everybody's terrified. McGee

starts off, the other following his lead toward--

THE RIVER

--where they emerge from the treeline, drawing ever closer to

the source of that INHUMAN HOWLING...

...and they stop, gazing in horror:

John Coffey sits on the riverbank in bloody overalls, his

huge feet splayed out before him. He's making that inhuman

howling sound, face twisted in monstrous grief, pausing

occasionally to take in a great hitching breath of air.

Curled in his massive arms are the naked bodies of

Detterick's 9 year-old twin girls, their once-blonde hair now

matted to their heads with blood.

A tableau. The men staring. John Coffey howling. A train

puffing smoke across the landscape.

Klaus Detterick breaks the moment, lunging down the riverbank

in a headlong rush. The others try to grab him, but he shrugs

them off and throws himself on Coffey with a scream of

inarticulate rage, kicking and punching, fists flying. Coffey

barely seems to notice.

The others catch up with Klaus, drag him off. He falls to his

knees on the riverbank, sobbing into his hands. Howie runs to

him, throws himself into his father's arm. They hug each

other tightly, overwhelmed with grief.

A semblance of quiet descends, except for Coffey's

heartbroken wailing. A ring of rifle toting men forms around

him, though he hardly seems aware of it. McGee steps forward,

uncertain:

Coffey goes quiet at once, eyes still streaming tears.

McGee hunkers carefully down, watching for any sudden moves.

McGee spits in Coffey's face...

PAUL ON BLEACHERS

...as Paul looks up with a slight start, jarred from his

reading to find WARDEN HAL MOORES standing before him.

Paul stows the file as Hal settles onto the bleachers.

Hal gives a slight shake of his head.

He pulls a letter, hands it to Paul.

Paul glances toward Bitterbuck, scans the letter, nods.

Hal has no answer. Paul look off toward Bitterbuck.

Hal follows Paul's gaze, takes his meaning.

Hal rises, slapping yard dust off his trousers.

Hal walks off looking like he's got the weight of the world

on his shoulders. Paul looks at the letter again...

TIGHT ON LETTER

...which is head: Date Of Execution."

INT. PAUL'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Paul is at the kitchen table in the wee hours of the morning,

drinking buttermilk and listening to SOFT MUSIC on the radio.

JANICE EDGECOMB appears, shuffling sleepily downstairs.

She comes into the kitchen, strokes his hair. There's an easy

familiarity and a deep love between these two.

She sits on his lap and gives him a crooked smile--you're not

getting off that easily.

She gives him a tiny kiss above his left eyebrow, in that

special spot that makes him prickle.

She kisses that spot above his eyebrow again. He smiles.

IN TIGHT ANGLES: Copper plugs are cleaned, switches are

oiled, circuits are tested...

INT. EXECUTION CHAMBER - NIGHT

...as maintenance is performed on Old Sparky by JACK VAN HAY

and a small crew. Paul is carefully sanding a connector plug.

Dean is waxing Old Sparky's wooden arms to a gleam.

Paul and Dean pause, thinking they hear a LAUGH drifting in

from E Block...and then Brutal calls softly to them:

INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT

Paul and Dean enter to find Brutal trying not to wake the

cons in their cells by laughing too loudly. They follows his

gaze down the Mile, see nothing, turn to him like he's crazy.

Paul and Dean look again and this time they see it:

A tiny brown mouse is coming up the Mile. It trots a short

distance, peers right and left as if checking the snoring

inmates in their cells, then makes another forward spurt.

This gets them all trying not to laugh. The mouse draws ever

closer. Dean starts to look worried.

That does it--Paul and Brutal burst out laughing. The mouse

stops before them and peers up, curling its tail primly

around its paws as if to wait. The guards fall silent,

fascinated. Bitterbuck stirs in his cell, sits up to watch.

Brutal tears off a piece of his half-eaten corned beef

sandwich, holds it delicately out with two fingers. The mouse

rises up, appraising the morsel with shiny black eyes.

Paul shrugs. Brutal drops the scrap. The mouse grabs it and

eats, sitting up like a dog doing a trick.

The mouse turns and scurries back down the Mile, vanishing

under the restraint room door at the far end. Dean throws

Paul an "I told you so" look.

Brutal give Paul a sheepish look--well? Paul sighs.

They stride grimly down the Mile to the restraint room door,

men on a mission. Coffey's awake now, peering from his cot.

Paul unlocks the door, revealing a padded room filled with

storage: cleaning supplies, buckets of paint, mops and

ladders, you name it. Brutal shrugs off his jacket. Paul

grabs a mop from a steel bucket, hands it to Dean.

Brutal and Paul start doing the heavy lifting, muscling an

unused filing cabinet out the door...

...and they finally relay the last few heavy buckets of paint

onto the Mile. Paul and Brutal catch their breath, scanning

the empty restraint room. Their eyes go glaringly to Dean.

They move slowly into the room, peering into every nook and

cranny, utterly mystified. Brutal shakes his head.

IN BLACKNESS, A TITLE CARD APPEARS:

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

A low, static shot. Green floor stretching before us. Harry

and Bill Dodge are at the desk b.g., doing paperwork and

filing chores. Percy is idling nearby, whistling softly and

combing his hair...

...and into this quiet shot, deep in foreground, creeps the

mouse. He starts walking the Mile as before...

...right toward Percy.

COFFEY

stares through his bars as the mouse goes by...

PERCY

keeps combing his hair, unaware...

DEL

sits quietly picking his nose in his cell. The mouse appears

outside the bars, cruising inexorably up the Mile. Del turns

slowly, watches the mouse go by...

PERCY

still grooming himself, still unaware...

THE MOUSE

keeps coming closer. ANGLE UP to Bitterbuck peering through

his bars, watching him go by...

PERCY

keeps working that comb--and freezes at the sound of a TINY

SQUEAK. His head swivels slowly...

...and there's the mouse. Staring at him.

That moment of eye contact reveals an enmity older than time

itself. If mice have a natural enemy, Percy is it.

Harry and Bill glance up from their work.

Percy takes a few careful steps back, eyes never leaving the

mouse. (Percy's hand starts easing toward the handle of his

baton.) The mouse comes up to the desk as before.

Harry breaks off a small piece of cracker and drops it. The

mouse picks it up, starts to eat. (Percy's hand inches ever

closer to his baton).

Bill drops a piece of cracker. The mouse ignores it

completely, keeping its beady little eyes on Harry. (Percy's

hand starts easing his baton from its holster.)

Harry drops another piece--and sure enough, the mouse starts

to eat. Harry's smile fades. He and Bill trade a look.

Percy lets rip a BELLOWING WAR CRY ("Yaaaahhh!") and launches

his baton like a spear, scaring the crap out of everyone.

The mouse ducks (yes, actually ducks) and the baton sail over

his head close enough to ruffle its fur, bouncing off the

floor. Apparently remembering a pressing engagement

elsewhere, the mouse takes off in a flash toward the

restraint room.

Percy roars with frustration and takes off after it, trying

to squash it with his heavy work shoes, leaping and stomping

with great big galloping strides, missing the mouse by

inches...

...and thus is the Green Mile traversed, with Percy stomping

and hollering like a spastic flamenco dancer, the convicts

yelling at their bars, the mouse zigging and zagging like Jim

Thorpe heading for the endzone...

The mouse wins, zipping to safety under the restraint room

door. Percy pounds his fist against the door in frustration:

He fumbles with his keys, unlocks the door, yelling all the

while:

OUTSIDE E BLOCK

Paul and Brutal are arriving for work--they pause, hearing

PERCY'S YELLS drifting from the windows. The regular CONS in

the yard are drifting curiously to the fence, wondering if a

riot's brewing. Paul and Brutal take off running--

INSIDE E BLOCK

--and rush in to find:

Harry points. Percy's down at the far end, rummaging wildly

in the restraint room, tossing shit out onto the Mile.

He starts muscling the filing cabinet out the door, kicking

buckets out of his way. Brutal calls out to him:

Paul stops Brutal with a look--don't you dare stop him.

Paul crosses his arms and smiles, leans back against the desk

to wait...

...and Percy hauls the last of the stuff out, exhausted. He

steps back in and looks around, unable to believe there's no

mouse cowering in the corner. Paul and the men approach,

keeping straight faces, navigating the crap in the corridor.

Percy keeps scanning the restraint room. The others all look

to Paul, waiting for him to speak--you're the boss.

He cocks a thumb at the inmates in their cells.

Brutal steps forward, wanting to slug the little bastard.

Percy shies back, but keeps his bravado up:

They turn and walk away, leaving Percy as we

INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT

A SLOW TRACKING SHOT OF THE GREEN FLOOR takes us past a tiny

scrap of break...and then another...and then past a mousetrap

primed with a scrap of bacon...

...and we keep following a long trail of bread scraps and

mousetraps until we come to Percy, alone on the Mile,

carefully laying the last mousetrap down...

...and he scoots back against the desk to wait, crouched and

holding his breath, eyes riveted to the restraint room door

for any sign of his furry nemesis...

...and CAMERA BOOMS SLOWLY DOWN off his face, dipping down to

floor level...

...where the mouse is revealed under the desk, peering in the

same direction as Percy, wondering what the hell's so

interesting down there. It hops further out to see...

ANGLE OF PERCY FROM FLOOR LEVEL

...and the mouse enters frame, hopping out a few more steps,

mouse and man staring in the same direction.

A long beat. Percy turns, looks down at the mouse. The mouse

turns, looks up at Percy...

...and all hell breaks loose again. They race the Mile as

before, Percy hollering and stomping all the way, mousetraps

snapping and flying up into frame as they go charging wildly

past the cells.

The mouse wins again. Percy pauses, furious...and sees Coffey

staring at him from his cell.

Percy loses it, kicking and punching the restraint room door

in a screaming rage as we

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

Paul appears at Bitterbuck's bars with a group of guards.

Bitterbuck steps from his cell. Bill Dodge escorts him off

the block. The moment they're gone:

INT. VISITOR'S ROOM - DAY

Bitterbuck is led in. His DAUGHTER rises...an awkward

hesitation...and she touches his face, kisses him. He takes

her hands, kisses them, tries not to cry. The rest of the

family is there: SON-IN-LAW, GRANDCHILDREN, COUSINS. They

form around him, murmuring hellos, shaking hands...

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

...while TOOT-TOOT takes Bitterbuck's place in the cell. He's

a wiry and toothless old trusty, crazy as a tick. He sits:

He glances to Paul--okay, hit it.

Toot springs to his feet and steps from the cell.

Toot turns, shows the top of his head to Dean.

Toot starts up the corridor, ringed by guards.

PAUL'S INNER OFFICE

Toot throws himself to his knees as soon as they enter:

Harry slaps Toot upside the head to shut him up.

EXECUTION CHAMBER

They enter. Brutal is waiting for them, gun drawn. Percy

peers out from behind the partition wall from the switch room.

Paul motions Percy behind the wall. Percy sighs, takes his

spot next to Jack Van Hay, peers through the wire mesh as

Toot plops into Old Sparky, wriggling his skinny ass to get

comfy.

Paul and Dean kneel to apply the ankle clamps. Brutal steps

in from the side, pressing down on the condemned man's left

arm to keep him in place until the ankle clamps are secure.

Harry moves in from the other side, securing the right arm

clamp.

Paul signals "ankles secure." Brutal holsters his pistol,

applies the final clamp to the left arm.

BEHIND THE PARTITION

Van Hay mimes turning the generator knob up, whispering:

RESUME MAIN CHAMBER

as Brutal steps before the "condemned" and pronounces:

Brutal tries to hold on, but it's impossible--he cracks up.

Everybody falls apart, howling helplessly with laughter. Even

Jack Van Hay is guffawing behind his partition.

Only Paul is reining it in--he's a little too pissed to go

with it. He waits until the laughing fit starts to pass, then:

Harry takes a black mask and snugs it down over Toot's head,

leaving only the crown of his head exposed. Brutal takes a

large sponge, dips it in a steel bucket, mimes soaking it...

BEHIND THE PARTITION

RESUME MAIN CHAMBER

as the sponge is placed atop Toot's head. Harry now lowers

the steel cap and Brutal secures the straps.

BEHIND THE PARTITION

Van Hay mimes flipping the switch, looks to Percy:

RESUME MAIN CHAMBER

Toot can't resist--he starts bucking and flailing:

Paul rolls his eyes at Brutal. Brutal shifts his gaze past

him and nods--look behind you.

Paul turns. Sitting on the door sill, watching them with

beady eyes, is the mouse. Paul turns back, addresses the room:

HIGH WIDE ANGLE OF EXECUTION CHAMBER

Brutal and Harry start undoing Toot's clamps. Everybody

relaxes, drifting from their positions...

SAME ANGLE AS ABOVE - NEXT NIGHT

...and the room is now quietly filling up with WITNESSES

trickling in. People speak in whispers, if at all.

INT. BITTERBUCK'S CELL - NIGHT

Bitterbuck, the top of his head now shaved, is speaking

quietly as Paul listens:

Paul doesn't think so--but that's not what Bitterbuck needs

to hear, so the lie comes easy:

Pause. Bitterbuck smiles.

Brutal appears at the door, checks his pocketwatch, nods to

Paul. Bitterbuck takes a deep breath, getting himself ready.

INT. EXECUTION CHAMBER - NIGHT

THE SPONGE is pulled sopping wet from the bucket of brine,

dripping a trail of water across the floor. Brutal places it

atop Bitterbuck's head. Water courses down the sides of the

condemned man's mask and neck, pooling on the floor.

The cap is lowered, the straps secured. All we hear now is

the sound of Bitterbuck's BREATHING growing louder and faster

under the mask...until, softly:

WHAM! The switch is thrown. Bitterbuck surges forward against

the straps, riding the powerful current.

Some witnesses turn away. Paul and Brutal maintain grim eye

contact with each other, waiting.

Behind the partition, Percy watches through the mesh with

gleaming eyes, wishing he could see better.

Van Hay kills the current. Bitterbuck goes limp. A DOCTOR

steps forward, checks for a heartbeat, shakes his head.

The switch is thrown a second time. Bitterbuck surges forward

again, riding the current all the way...

INT. E BLOCK ACCESS TUNNEL - NIGHT

Bitterbuck's dead face stares up at us from a gurney. A hand

reaches down, gives his cheek a squeeze. TILT UP to:

Brutal knocks Percy's hand away, shoves him aside.

He draws the sheet over Bitterbuck's face, wheels the gurney

down the tunnel. Percy throws a look to Paul.

Paul brushes past him, but:

Paul cocks his head--excuse me?

Paul just shakes his head in wonder and walks away.

INT. COFFEY'S CELL - DAY

Coffey's lying on his bunk, weeping quiet tears. He stirs at

the sound of GIGGLING. He sits up, peers curiously through

the bars. Softly:

AT THE GUARD STATION

Paul glances up from writing in the daily log. Silence now.

He goes back to writing--and the GIGGLING comes again.

No answer. Just more giggling. Paul rises, walks down the

Mile to Delacroix's cell--and stops, staring in through the

bars.

PAUL'S INNER OFFICE

Brutal and Dean are having lunch. Paul pokes his head in.

RESUME E BLOCK

The men follow Paul onto the Mile. By now, Del is CACKLING

WILDLY in his cell. Brutal shoots Paul a look--has he gone

insane? Paul gestures "see for yourself."

They arrive at the bars...and find the mouse sitting on Del's

shoulder. Del looks up, giggling like a kid at Christmas.

He stretches out his left arm. The mouse crawls over the top

of his head, scampers along his arm to the wrist, turns

around and scampers back. The guards just stand there,

staring.

He puts the mouse on the floor, grabs a small wooden spool.

The mouse sees it, poises like a man getting ready for a race.

He tosses the spool across the floor, bounces it against the

wall. The mouse goes after it like a dog after a stick--and

proceeds to push it back to the bunk, rolling it with its

front paws all the way to Delacroix's feet.

By now, the guard's jaws are hanging open. Paul's got a funny

little chill running up his spine.

Again he throws the spool. Again the mouse goes after it,

starts rolling it back. Del howls with laughter, claps his

hands like a kid. Brutal murmurs to the others:

He picks up the spool again, makes a drumroll sound, tosses

it. The mouse does its thing, rolling the spool back...

...as Percy enters the scene. Del catches sight of him and

scoops up his mouse, drawing fearfully back on his bunk. He

tries to hide Mr. Jingles in his hands--but the mouse

wriggles from his grasp and scampers up on top of his head,

where he regards Percy with mistrustful, beady mouse eyes.

Del tries to offer some defiance--but all he can manage is:

Percy shrugs as if to say "no skin off me", looks to Paul.

Paul trades a look with the others, everybody wondering just

what the hell's going through Percy's mind.

Percy walks away, leaving them dumbstruck. Paul turns to the

others. Of all the things they've seen in the last few

minutes, Percy being nice is the most amazing of all.

INT. PRISON ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - DAY

Paul comes up the stairs to the warden's office...

INT. WARDEN MOORES' OFFICE - DAY

...and enters to find Hal staring out the window.

Hal's speech is halting, his thoughts disjointed and slow:

He picks up the report, trying to focus his thoughts:

He trails off, no longer able to focus on the words. Paul is

shocked to see tears spill silently down his cheeks.

Paul doesn't know what to say. Hal looks at him.

Hal Moores, one of the toughest and steadiest men you'd ever

meets, starts to cry. He dissolves into great big gasping

sobs, losing all control.

INT. PAUL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Paul lies awake, watching Jan sleep. He looks troubled--not

to mention feverish. It occurs to him how badly he has to

pee. He sits up, clutching at a queasy stab of pain in his

groin...

LIVING ROOM STAIRS

...and comes hurrying down the steps, clutching himself...

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

...and he's moving even faster as he exits the kitchen,

racing for the outhouse. He realizes he's not going to make

it, stops to piss near the woodpile at the corner of the

house...

...and as he does, he's hit with the most stunning pain of

his life. He buckles to his knees--it's only his flailing

hand against the woodpile that prevents him from going face-

first into his own piss. He crams his other hand to his mouth

in an enormous effort not to scream and wake his wife.

He manages to ride it out until his bladder empties. He falls

onto his side, rolls over on the grass, and stares up at the

sky with both hands pressed to his groin.

IN BLACKNESS, A TITLE CARD APPEARS:

INT. PAUL'S KITCHEN - MORNING

Paul looks feverish and clammy as he buttons up his uniform

jacket. Jan is packing his lunch, throwing him looks, knowing

how sick he is.

She hands him his brown-bagged lunch, kisses his face.

INT. BRIAR RIDGE MENTAL HOSPITAL - MORNING

We see a tattoo: "Billy the Kid." TILT UP to WILLIAM WHARTON

staring out the window, wearing a hospital gown, his face

utterly blank. He looks heavily medicated.

Harry, Dean, and Percy enter. Billy doesn't react, just keeps

staring out. Harry waves his fingers in Billy's face.

Dean relays some folded prison clothes to Harry.

Billy turns with a vacant look, takes the clothes. He fumbles

with the shirt, drops the pants. Harry and Dean sigh.

They strip Billy's hospital gown off and proceed to put the

shirt on him, guiding his limp arms through the sleeves.

Billy looks up, meets Percy's eyes.

Percy does a quick impression of a man jittering and jerking

in the electric chair.

Laughing, Percy picks up the pants. They proceed to help

Billy into them one leg at a time...

INT. E BLOCK TOILET - DAY

Paul is trying to piss. Except for a few drops hitting the

bowl, excruciating pain seems to be the only result. He gives

up, grabs a towel, wipes the sweat from his feverish face...

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

...and steps gingerly from the toilet. Del's watching.

Paul shoots him a baleful look--no kidding. Another voice

calls softly from further down the Mile:

Coffey falls silent. Paul goes to the entrance door and peers

through the viewing slot, anxious to have this over with...

EXT. COLD MOUNTAIN PENITENTIARY - DAY

The prison truck appears, swaying along the rutted road...

IN THE TRUCK

...while Billy Wharton stares at nothing, drool dripping from

his slack mouth in long strings.

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

Paul watches the truck pull in. He draws away from the slot,

proceeds toward the empty cell which used to be

Bitterbuck's...

ANGLE ON TRUCK

The rear doors are swung open. Harry emerges. Dean and Percy

are guiding Billy by the arm, helping him down...

INSIDE E BLOCK

Paul waits at the empty cell. ANGLE PANS TIGHT to Coffey at

his bars, eyes widening in a blossoming of some nameless fear

or dread. Something bad's coming. A whisper:

OUTSIDE E BLOCK

Billy is brought to the door. Dean pulls his keys, starts to

unlock it. We PUSH IN on Billy's face, where the tiniest

trace of a smile is starting to grow...

INSIDE E BLOCK

...and Coffey's unease grows with it. he presses his face to

the bars, his whispering becoming more urgent:

Paul hears him, glances back with a puzzled look. Coffey's

gaze is directed at the door, which is being unlocked...

THE DOOR

...and opened. In that moment, the slack look on Billy's face

gives way to a wild grin. A CRAZED SCREECH leaps from his

throat, a cross between a rebel yell and a dog being

tortured, freezing everybody's blood in their veins--

--and he drops his wrist-chain down over Dean's head, jerks

it tight, begins to strangle him. Dean lurches forward, Billy

riding/propelling him through the door onto the Mile.

Percy stands frozen in the doorway, stunned. Harry shoves him

aside and jumps on Billy from behind, trying to get him off

Dean. Dean is choking, turning purple.

Paul rushes from the cell to join the fray. Billy whirls,

delivering a stunning kick to Paul's groin. Paul's bladder

pain goes nuclear--he falls back in agony, clutching himself

and sucking air through his teeth, unable even to scream.

Billy rams an elbow into Harry's face, knocks him sprawling

on the desk, screaming and laughing and howling all the while:

Paul forces himself to his feet, pulls his revolver, draws

down on Billy...

...but Billy jerks Dean around, using him as a shield...

Dean is choking, dying. Paul is shifting his aim, trying for

a clear shot, not getting one. Percy's still just inside the

doorway, pressed against the wall with fear...

...and suddenly a hand comes in, grabs the hickory stick out

of Percy's grasp, raises it high--

--it's Brutal coming through the door. He swings the baton

and lands an awesome blow to Billy's head--THUMP! The force

of it spins Billy off his feet and slams him flat on his back.

Dean crawls away, gulping ragged breaths of air. Amazingly,

Billy's still conscious--he looks up at Brutal and laughs:

Still laughing, he makes another grab at Dean. Brutal whacks

him again, turning his lights out for good. Brutal drops to

Dean's side, helping him hack air back into his lungs:

Everybody's reining in their adrenaline. Paul glares at Harry.

Percy nods, still numb. Paul is furious:

Harry shakes his head miserably. Paul grabs Billy by the feet.

Percy finally unfreezes. The three of them hoist Billy up in

a dead-lift, get him in his cell, toss him on the cot. They

step out, slam the door, lock it. Paul looks to Harry and

Brutal.

They all exit. As soon as he's alone, Paul gives in to the

pain, holding his crotch and sinking to his knees with a

moan. It's so bad he actually lays down on the Mile, face

pressed against the cool linoleum, wishing he were dead. A

stretch of silence...and then:

Paul sighs. Things couldn't get much worse than this. He

rises with a supreme effort, walks painfully down the Mile...

COFFEY'S CELL

...and finds Coffey waiting at his bars.

Paul blinks. Maybe it's the fever clouding his brain, or

maybe...hell, is this what being hypnotized is like? He tries

to shake the sensation off, comes a little closer.

His hand shoots out, grabs Paul by the collar, jerks him

close. Paul makes a panic-grab for his revolver...

...but Coffey lays his free hand atop Paul's, eases his grip

from the gun--no need for that. Coffey's hand then drifts

slowly down, easing to Paul's crotch...

...and something goes WHUMP through Paul's body. He arches

back with his mouth agape and arms outstretched as a rush of

energy seems to pass from Paul through Coffey's hand...

...and then it's over. Paul comes back to the real world,

weak against the bars, realizes Del is hollering in his cell:

It dawns on him that he really is fine. Fever's gone. So is

the pain in his groin. John Coffey, though, seems to be

having trouble. He sits down on his bunk, bends forward,

gagging like a man with a chicken bone caught in his throat.

Paul fumbles his keys to the lock, unsure if he should open

the door, watching the big man's contortions grow stronger

like a cat trying to cough up a hairball...

...and then comes an unpleasant, gagging/retching sound as

Coffey's lips draw back from his teeth in a kind of godawful

sneer...and he exhales a cloud of what look like tiny black

insects. They swirl furiously in front of his face, turn

white...and disappear. Paul just stares, stunned. Softly:

Coffey shrugs--it's something that just is.

He rolls onto his bunk, faces the wall. Paul just stares at

him, stunned. He turns and walks up the Mile, his stiffness

and pain now gone. Del watches him go by, also stunned:

Paul continues up the Mile...

E BLOCK TOILET

...and steps back into the toilet. Not trusting this

situation for even a moment, Paul opens his fly, takes a deep

breath to prepare himself for the pain, starts to pee...

...and we hear a healthy stream of water hitting the bowl.

The look on Paul's face says it all--blessed relief.

INT. PAUL'S HOUSE - DUSK

Paul comes home from work, still looking numb about the whole

thing. He drifts to the kitchen door. Jan's at the counter,

slicing vegetables for dinner. She glances at him.

She turns back. Paul's eyes drift down to admire her ass.

No response. He's too busy staring. She turns again--he

glances hastily up.

She turns back, keeps working. He crosses the room, eyeing

her ass all the way...and surprised her by pressing up

against her from behind, running his hands along her hips.

He starts laying kisses on the back of her neck, giving her

pleasant shivers, murmuring:

He's getting her breathless. She turns into his arms and they

get into some passionate kissing. It's not too long before

they're frantically peeling each other's clothes off...

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

...and we find them having a wild tumble in the sheets, both

moaning and groaning, sweating and panting. She pushes him

flat on the bed, pauses to catch her breath...

...and they keep going, rutting like crazed weasels...

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

...as their moans go drifting into the night...

SAME ANGLE AS ABOVE - DAWN

...and they're still moaning up there as the sun creeps up.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

Jan falls back, exhausted after the latest go-round. She

catches her breath, looks over at Paul, and finally:

She gives him a look--oh?

INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Paul is on the phone:

He hangs up, turns to Jan.

EXT. ROAD TO TEFTON - DAY

Paul's model T comes putt-putting up the road past a sign:

"Trapingus County Welcomes You."

EXT. HOUSE IN TEFTON - BACK PORCH - DAY

BURT HAMMERSMITH, public defender for Trapingus County, sits

with a cold soda and a magazine, watching his TWO CHILDREN

playing on a swing at the far end of the backyard. The screen

door opens and CYNTHIA HAMMERSMITH ushers Paul out.

She goes back inside. Burt rises.

Burt settles back down, motions "please sit".

Cynthia reappears, hands Paul a cold root beer.

She goes back inside, but the kids aren't quite able to tear

themselves away from their play.

Burt smiles, realizing:

Cynthia hollers from an open window:

The kids start this way. Burt turns back to Paul.

The little boy comes to him, staring at his feet. Burt tires

to raise the boy's chin. The boy resists for a moment...

...and then his face comes around. He's horribly scarred on

that side, the eye missing.

The boy races inside after his sister. Paul follows Burt's

gaze off toward the rear of the property, where an unoccupied

doghouse stands weathered and sad in the weeds.

Burt acknowledges the condolence with a gracious nod.

He raises his hand, making biting motions with his fingers.

Paul says nothing. Burt gazes out again. Softly:

INT. PAUL'S MODEL T - DAY

Paul drives back to Cold Mountain, his heart conflicted...

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

...and he walks onto the Mile with a bundle wrapped in a dish

towel. Brutal glances up from the desk, sniffing the air.

Paul continues down the Mile. Whatever he's carrying, the

smell of it brings Del to his bars. Even Mr.Jingles comes

skittering out of his cigar box, sniffing.

Paul arrives at Coffey's cell. Coffey's on his bunk facing

the wall. His head comes around, drawn by the aroma. He sits

up, wipes the tears leaking from his eyes, looks at Paul.

Paul speaks softly so the others can't hear:

Coffey nods thoughtfully, absorbing this notion. Then:

Paul motions discreetly to his crotch.

Paul hands him the bundle through the bars. Coffey takes it,

uncovers the cornbread reverently, gazes back up.

Paul nods. Across the way, Del is pressing his face longingly

through the bars while Mr. Jingles crawls on his shoulder.

John carefully scoops a big chunk of cornbread out with his

enormous hand, holds it through the bars to Paul.

Coffey looks to Paul--do I have to?

He smiles like a big kid, digging in with his fingers. Paul

crosses the Mile to Del's cell, hands him his share.

Paul's temper flares--he steps to Billy's cell.

Beat. Billy spits in Paul's face and follows it up with a big

grin--what are you gonna do about that? Paul is seething as

he wipes the spit off, but keeps his temper where it belongs.

Paul walks away. Billy laughs, hollering after him:

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

Harry is walking the Mile, doing a cell check and jotting on

a clipboard. He pauses, making a notation...

...and a long stream of piss hits his leg. Billy's at his

bars, peeing on him. Harry jumps back, stunned. Billy howls

with laughter, hosing his aim wildly from side to side.

Paul and Brutal come running. Harry's just flabbergasted:

Paul stays calm, turns to Brutal, nods at the restraint room.

A STREAM OF GUARDS comes toting the last of the restraint

room stuff past Billy's cell while he heckles them from the

bars...

...and he pauses as Paul and Brutal step to the bars. Paul

has a canvas straitjacket. Brutal pulls his nightstick.

Brutal unlocks the cell--and sidesteps, revealing Harry

pointing a fire hose. The hose erupts, driving Billy across

the cell with bone-jarring force. They batter him half-

senseless, then cut the water. Billy collapses in a heap.

Paul and Brutal drag him semi-conscious from his cell and get

the straitjacket on him. He comes around as they draw the

straps tight and pull him to his feet.

Billy lets out a scream of rage and throws himself at Brutal.

Brutal, bored, shoves him back toward Paul, who then propels

him down the Mile toward the open restraint room door. Billy

sees where they intend to put him, resorts to pleading:

He suddenly drops to the floor, bucking and jerking wildly,

spewing drool. Harry's eyes go wide.

Paul reaches down and unceremoniously starts dragging Billy

kicking and writhing the rest of the way.

Brutal helps Paul toss Billy headlong into the padded room.

They slam the door...

RESTRAINT ROOM

...and Billy staggers to his feet in the straitjacket,

inarticulate with rage, starts throwing himself against the

door, screaming at the top of his lungs.

INT. E BLOCK - NEXT DAY

Paul and Brutal unlock the restraint room. Billy looks up

from the corner, pale and drained. Softly:

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

Billy's back in his cell, quiet for a change. Toot-Toot is

outside the bars, mopping the floor. Billy notices a

chocolate Moon Pie in Toot's shirt pocket.

Toot looks around. Nobody's watching, and a nickel's a

nickel. He steps to Billy's bars, swaps the Moon Pie for the

money.

Toot hurries away. Billy unwraps the Moon Pie, makes sure

he's not being watched...and crams the entire thing into his

mouth...

...and here comes Brutal strolling down the Mile, doing a

cell check and jotting on a clipboard. He pauses, seeing:

Billy at his bars. Just standing there staring. His cheeks

bulging way out.

Brutal steps closer, fascinated...what the fuck is that.

Billy waits until he's just a bit closer--

--and he slams his fists against his own cheeks, propelling

a disgusting spew of liquefied chocolate sludge into Brutal's

face. Billy falls back onto his bunk, shrieking with laughter:

...and once again, Billy gets dragged to the restraint room,

kicking and screaming all the way. They toss him in, slam the

door. Brutal turns, still wiping traces of sludge off.

Brutal nods. They walk away as we

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

Paul and Brutal appear at Del's bars with Harry and Dean.

Del swells with pride upon hearing this. He scrounges up Mr.

Jingles props, steps from his cell, looks to Harry and Dean.

Del nods, beaming happily, looks to Coffey in his cell.

Brutal leads Del up the Mile, Paul and the others at their

heels. Percy's at the duty desk. He smirks and rolls his eyes

as Del goes by. The moment Brutal and Del are out the door...

...Toot emerges from Paul's office where he's been hiding.

Toot hurries down to take his place in Del's cell.

INT. OFFICE/ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - DAY

A HALF DOZEN GUARDS are waiting. We find Bill Dodge fixing

the tie of a fat good ol' boy named EARL.

A KNOCK at the door. Everybody takes a seat. Del is ushered

in by Brutal. Del faces his audience, puts his hands to his

chest in a "thank you" gesture worthy of Lillie Langtry

before her adoring public, then announces grandly:

INT. EXECUTION CHAMBER - DAY

The steel cap is lowered over Toot's head, the straps

tightened. TILT UP to Percy as:

Behind his partition, Van Hay mimes flipping the switch.

A pause. Percy looks anxiously to Paul, who's trading glances

with the other guards. Finally:

Percy smiles. Harry and Dean step up, slapping his back and

shaking his hand...

INT. E BLOCK - DAY

...and they're still chatting a short time later, waiting for

Del's return. Percy actually looks happy for a change,

feeling genuinely accepted for the first time...

Billy is watching from his cell. Just watching.

The door opens. Del returns with Mr. Jingles on his shoulder,

escorted by Brutal. Brutal is toting the cigar box and spool

like a magician's assistant carrying the boss' props.

The generosity of Percy's tone catches Del completely off

guard. Del gives him a look of almost comical mistrust...

...and the old Percy comes back. He bares his teeth in a mock

snarl and curls his fingers as if to grab Del. It's a joke,

but Del doesn't know that--he jerks back in fear and trips

over Brutal's big feet. Del goes down hard, hitting the

linoleum with the back of his head. Mr. Jingles jumps clear,

goes squeaking down the Mile. Del sits up, painfully

clutching his head. Brutal helps him up...

...and moves him toward his cell. Percy is actually moved to

apologize--he starts after them with a half-laugh, drifting

much too close to Wild Bill's side of the Mile...

...and Wild Bill's arms thrust out, grabbing Percy and

slamming him back against the bars with an arm around his

throat. Percy squeals like a pig in a slaughter-chute,

thinking he's gonna die. The guards scramble, drawing their

clubs--as Billy strokes Percy's hair and whispers in his ear:

Billy kisses Percy's ear--and his hand drops down to squeeze

Percy's crotch. Paul pulls his sidearm, taking aim...

...and Billy lets go, stepping back with his hands raised,

laughing. Percy darts across the Mile in terror and cringes

against the cell opposite, breathing so loud and fast it

almost sounds like sobbing.

Down at his cell, Del starts laughing shrilly. Everybody else

starts to realize it, including Percy himself...he looks

down, sees the huge dark stain spreading at his crotch.

Percy just stares. Brutal shoves Delacroix into his cell.

Paul steps to Percy, puts a hand on his shoulder. Percy

shakes his hand off, looks around at their faces, whispers:

The men nod solemnly. Nobody's going to talk about this.

Percy looks at Delacroix still snorting in his cell, points

at him.

Del falls silent. Percy turns and storms away as we

IN BLACKNESS, A TITLE CARD APPEARS:

INT. DEL'S CELL - DAY

Paul is sitting with Delacroix. Brutal is leaning against the

bars. Del is throwing the spool. Mr. Jingles is fetching it.

The silence is thick. Just the clack-clatter of the spool,

and the skitter skitter of tiny mouse paws on concrete. It's

getting on Paul's nerves in a big way. Softly:

Del looks horrified at the thought.

Del tosses the spool again--clack-clatter, skitter-skitter.

Del nods, tosses the spool again--clack-clatter, skitter

skitter. Paul is completely out of ideas. But then:

Brutal's mouth twitches, but he manages to keep a straight

face. He gives Paul a look--don't blow this.

Percy is drifting up the block, listening too, but nobody's

really paying him much mind.

Del tosses the spool extra hard--it takes a bad bounce off

the wall and goes clattering through the bars onto the Mile.

The mouse goes after it like a shot, too intent to notice:

His old enemy Percy.

Percy stomps the heel of his heavy work shoe down on Mr.

Jingles. There's a SOFT SNAP as the mouse's back breaks.

Del screams in horror and throws himself at the bars, sobbing

the mouse's name. Percy looks to Brutal and Paul, smiles.

He turns and strolls up the Mile, leaving Mr. Jingles dying

in a tiny pool of blood. Up at the duty desk, Dean and Harry

get up from a cribbage game, stunned and furious.

Percy strolls past, exits to the execution chamber. Del is

still screaming, all his pent-up terror and grief pouring out

at the dying mouse. And then comes a soft, urgent voice:

They turn. Coffey's got his arms out through his bars, one

massive hand spread open.

Paul hesitates, scoops the mouse up off the floor, wincing at

the feel of it. Splintered bones are poking at the hide.

Paul doesn't answer, just lays Mr. Jingles into Coffey's

hand. Coffey pulls the mouse in through his bars and lays his

other hand gently over it, cupping the creature. All we see

now is the tail hanging out the side, twitching weakly.

Paul motions him quiet. Del is pleading softly at his bars:

Harry and Dean join the group. Everybody watching now.

Coffey puts his mouth to his cupped hands, inhales sharply.

The world hangs suspended for a moment. Coffey raises his

face, contorting as if desperately ill, starts making those

horrendous choking sounds in his throat...

They do. The tail is no longer weak and dying. It's snapping

briskly back and forth, as if ready to play.

Coffey makes that retching/gagging sound...and again exhales

a cloud of swirling black "insects" from his nose and mouth.

The men watch, speechless, as the bugs turn white and

disappear.

Coffey bends down, opens his hand. Mr. Jingles bounds off his

fingers through the bars, racing past the guards' feet. They

turn to see Del gather the mouse up, laughing and crying.

Dean turns back to Coffey with a stunned whisper:

Coffey nods, remembering.

And with that, he lies back on his bunk and faces the wall.

The others look to Paul, don't even know what to say.

Harry nods numbly. Paul leads Brutal up the Mile...

EXECUTION CHAMBER

...and they enter to find Percy polishing Old Sparky's arms.

Paul steps closer, angry as we've ever seen him:

Beat. Percy stalks past them, heads out onto the Mile. Paul

and Brutal just wait, saying nothing. Brutal picks up the rag

left by Percy, resumes polishing chores on Old Sparky. Paul

stretches, cracks his neck. The silence heavy...

...until Percy reappears.

Brutal grabs him , slams him bodily into the electric chair.

Paul bends close, gets right in Percy's face.

Percy looks from one man to another, knowing he's trapped.

Percy thinks it over, nods. He tries to get up, but Paul keep

him pinned...and pointedly offer his hand.

Percy hesitates, shakes Paul's hand...

HIGH WIDE ANGLE OF EXECUTION CHAMBER

...and Paul pulls him out of the electric chair as we

SAME ANGLE AS ABOVE - NEXT NIGHT

Witnesses are trickling in, filling the seats. A storm is

brewing, sending FLASHES OF LIGHTNING across the floors.

INT. DEL'S CELL - NIGHT

Del sits with Mr. Jingles in his lap, stroking the mouse

between the ears. Paul, Brutal, and Harry appear at the bars.

Paul nods--I promise. Del rises, steps to Paul.

Del lifts his hand. Mr. Jingles steps off onto Paul's

shoulder with no hesitation. Gently:

Paul moves to Coffey's cell. The mouse skitters off Paul's

shoulder onto Coffey's hand.

Del gives Mr. Jingles one last look, starts to cry.

And they start to walk the Mile...

EXECUTION CHAMBER

Sweltering in the damp heat. Rain is pissing down, drumming

the tin roof. People glance up uneasily as THUNDER BOOMS. A

FAT LADY is staring grimly at the electric chair.

ANGLE ON DOOR

Del enters, horrified to see Percy waiting at Old Sparky.

Paul gives Del's arm a reassuring squeeze, leads him

forward...

IN A TIGHT SERIES OF SHOTS:

The clamps are applied. The straps are drawn tight.

The lights brighten on a RISING HUM. Witnesses look up.

ON THE MILE

Coffey looks up as the overheads flare hotter and hotter,

whispers to the mouse in his hands:

RESUME EXECUTION CHAMBER

Del tries to speak. Doesn't quite manage the first time.

Licks his lips and tries again.

Paul and Brutal nod--and are stunned as:

The stricken look in Del's eyes tells us a part of him had

known all along. Paul and Brutal would both like to deck

Percy right about now, and he knows it--he gives them a "what

are you gonna do about it" smile.

Nothing they can do. Paul nods to Harry, who takes the black

mask from the back of the chair and rolls it down over Del's

head, leaving the top of his shaved head exposed.

PERCY

takes the sponge and bends down to the bucket of brine. The

other don't see it, but we do:

Percy only pretends to dip the sponge and soak it. It never

touches the water. He straightens up and places the sponge

atop Delacroix's head, hiding it with his hands.

The cap is lowered. Paul and the others haven't yet realized

what's happened. THUNDER BOOMS and LIGHTNING CRASHES as Percy

hides a smile, steps back to address the condemned:

TIGHT ON PAUL

as realization starts to dawn. He stares at the bucket, then

across the floor to Delacroix, coming to terms with the

evidence of his eyes--there's no water on the floor or

dripping down the sides of Del's neck.

Paul's eyes widen. A stunned beat of horror. He starts to

open his mouth to scream "NO!", but Percy beats him to it

with:

Van Hay flicks the switch. WHAM. The electricity hits home

and Del rocks forward, riding the current.

Then things start to go horribly wrong.

The HUMMING loses its steadiness and starts to waver with a

CRACKLING SOUND. Tendrils of smoke begin curling from under

the cap, a mixture of burning hair and sponge. Brutal shoots

Paul a horrified look. Paul responds with a harsh whisper:

Delacroix begins twisting and jittering in the chair, his

masked face snapping violently from side to side, his legs

pistoning up and down in his restraints.

There's a MUFFLED POP from under the cap, like a pine knot

exploding in a hot fire. Smoke starts coming through the

fabric of the mask, puffing upward. Del is being cooked

alive. Paul spins to the partition, hollering--

--but Brutal grabs his arm, whispers fiercely:

Paul turns back, helpless. The other guards are trading wild

looks, unable to believe what's happening. Even Percy looks

aghast--he was expecting something, but not this.

Del begins SCREAMING--the wild, hysterical sound of an animal

being shredded alive in a hay baler. The HUMMING goes uneven

and ragged, the lights rising and falling...

ON THE MILE

...as Del's screams rise and fall with them, echoing up the

corridor. Coffey's shaking and screaming too, as if feeling

Del's pain. Mr. Jingles squirms out of his grasp and goes

squeaking in terror toward the restraint room door...

RESUME EXECUTION CHAMBER

Wrong. Del's nowhere near about done. He's slamming back and

forth in the chair hard enough to shake the platform,

twisting hard against the leather restraints. We hear BONES

BREAKING. A WOMAN'S SCREAMS. Witnesses start rising to their

feet:

The mask bursts into flame on Delacroix's face. Van Hay

hollers through the wire mesh, horrified:

Harry scoops up the bucket of water to throw it.

Harry backs off with a look of dazed understanding--you don't

throw water on a man getting juiced. Right. He drops the

bucket, races to get the chemical fire extinguisher instead.

The flaming mask peels away, revealing Del's charring face.

His eyeballs are misshapen globs of burning white jelly blown

out of their sockets. The ATTENDING DOCTOR faints dead away.

Pandemonium now in the room. People shouting and hurrying to

exit, chairs falling over, women screaming:

Hal grabs Paul by the shoulder, spins him around.

Hal is horrified at the thought. Del is jittering and

screaming, rocking from side to side, smoke pouring from his

nostrils and mouth, his tongue sizzling purple-black.

The witnesses are crowding and shoving to get out, but the

back door is locked. All they can do is cluster there.

Paul sees Percy with his head turned away. He grabs him,

forces his head around.

Harry steps up, the extinguisher in his hands. Waiting. Del

finally slumps over. He still vibrating, but now it's just

the effect of current flowing through his body.

Van Hay kills the current. The HUMMING DIES. Brutal grabs the

extinguisher from Harry, shoves it into Percy's hands.

Percy, sick and dazed, aims the extinguisher and hoses the

smoking corpse. Hal is near the back, calming the crowd:

Dean drops to the doctor's bag, digs through it, hands up the

stethoscope. Paul plugs them into his ears. People are

moaning and sobbing at the back of the room:

Paul wipes some foam away from Delacroix's chest, places the

stethoscope pad to the raw flesh. He nods to Brutal--it's

over.

INT. ACCESS TUNNEL - NIGHT

Paul and the others bring the stretcher down, lay the corpse

on the gurney. Percy starts stammering excuses:

Brutal hauls off and slugs him. A scuffle ensues as the

others grab Brutal and pull him off.

Hal comes lunging down the stairs, furious:

This pulls the plug on the moment--Hal snorts, triggering

laughter among the men, a wild release of tension and fear.

Everybody starts feeling a bit saner again as it dies down:

All eyes go to Percy. Hal turns, sees Percy's bloody lip.

Beat. A look of utter contempt from Hal.

Hal considers it, nods.

Percy nods. Hal steps close, gives him a tight, icy smile.

Hal heads back up the stairs. Brutal shoves Percy aside and

wheels Delacroix's body down the tunnel.

INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT

Paul returns to find Wild Bill making up a song in his cell:

Billy falls silent. Paul continues down the Mile to Coffey's

cell. Coffey's on his bunk, face streaked with tears. He

wipes his eyes with the heels of his hands like an exhausted

child.

Paul realizes he won't get a coherent answer.

Coffey lays down, turns to face the wall.

INT. PAUL'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Paul enters in darkness, hangs his hat. He drifts into the

kitchen, clicks on the radio. SOFT MUSIC BEGINS: Gene Austin

singing "Did You Ever See A Dream Walking?"

He pours a drink at the kitchen table, takes a sip, lays the

glass down. Jan sleepily appears from the darkness behind

him, entering the kitchen. He realizes she's there, glances

back.

She can sense the weight on his soul. She comes to him, folds

his head into her arms. They stand that way, he drawing

strength and she giving it, as the music plays on...

SEQUENCE WITH MUSIC:

INT. CHURCH - MORNING

CAMERA TRACKS the pews to find Paul and Jan seated together

in the congregation, voices raised in hymn...

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - MORNING

Paul's Model T comes sputtering up the road. He and Jan are

taking a drive, still in their Sunday best...

EXT. HAL'S HOUSE - MORNING

Paul and Jan wait at the front door. Jan holds a baking dish.

The door opens. Hal, looking tired, ushers them inside...

EXT. BACKYARD - MORNING

...and they walk outside to find MELINDA MOORES sitting in

the sun, frail and wasted, a blanket on her knees. She'd be

beautiful if not for the cancer killing her.

Paul is shocked at her appearance, hides it as best as he

can. Jan covers this for him--she drops to Melinda's side

with a warm smile and a kiss, takes the woman's frail hands

in hers.

Paul catches Jan's eye. The look he gives her says it all--I

don't know what I'd do without you...

...and we find Paul and Hal talking quietly over beers while

the women visit b.g.:

INT. PAUL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Paul is wide awake, staring at the dark. Jan can sense him

brooding. She rolls over sleepily.

Off Jan's look, we

INT. DINING ROOM- DAY

Brutal, Harry, and Dean are seated at the table with Paul and

Jan. Serving plates are being passes, everybody digging in:

Paul softly interjects:

This stops everybody cold. Dean puts his chicken down, wipes

his hands. Looks are traded in the silence.

The men absorb this. Brutal glances to Jan.

Jan looks to Paul, realization starting to dawn:

Paul nods--that's who we're talking about.

Brutal lets out a deep breath, considering. He looks to Paul.

The men are stunned by this. Off their looks:

IN BLACKNESS, A TITLE CARD APPEARS:

INT. INFIRMARY BUILDING/DISPENSARY - NIGHT

A FLASHLIGHT BEAM plays across a glass cabinet, scanning the

contents. The beam pauses. A hand enters frame, unlocks the

cabinet, pulls out a bottle of morphine tablets...

...and WE ANGLE TO Brutal as he shakes half a dozen pills

onto his palm, pockets them, replaces the bottle on the

shelf. He turns and slips five bucks to a NIGHTSHIFT ORDERLY.

INT. E BLOCK ACCESS TUNNEL - NIGHT

A MORPHINE PILL is being crushed to powder on the stainless

steel gurney. TILT UP to Paul crushing the pills. Brutal

carefully scrapes the powder onto a small sheet of paper...

INT. PAUL'S INNER OFFICE - NIGHT

Percy is parked in Paul's chair with his feet up, reading a

book titled: "CARING FOR MENTAL PATIENTS."

INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT

Harry and Dean are playing cards at the duty desk, tension

thick, cards slapping softly as the seconds tick by. Paul and

Brutal finally show up toting bottles of RC cola:

They begin popping the caps off, swigging cola. The sound of

it brings Billy to his bars.

Paul shrugs to Brutal--why not? Brutal pops the top off a

bottle, passes it to Paul. Paul grabs a tin cup, sets it on

the desk...and we see it contains the morphine powder. He

pours the cola, swirls it around...

ANGLE THROUGH COFFEY'S BARS

...as Coffey looks up, sensing something happening. He peers

up the Mile as Paul walks to:

BILLY'S CELL

Billy reaches for the cup, but Paul keeps it out of reach.

Paul lets him take the cup. Billy knocks it back, draining it

in three huge swallows. He lets out an awesome belch.

Billy's smile fades. He hands the cup through the bars. Paul

takes it, turns and heads back to--

THE DUTY DESK

--where Brutal, Harry, and Dean have been watching the entire

exchange with their hearts in their throats...

...and we find Billy staring glassy-eyed at the ceiling. He

keels over on his bunk. ANGLE to Paul and Brutal stepping to

the bars with Harry and Dean.

A voice comes softly from down the way:

Their heads come slowly around, staring at Coffey in shock.

INT. PAUL'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Percy looks up from his book as the door opens. Paul enters

with Brutal and Harry, ominously hemming the desk.

Paul pulls the canvas straitjacket from behind his back.

Percy jumps up and tries to the execution chamber, but Harry

grabs him, spins him back. A wild scuffle ensues as:

Percy tries to jerk away, crashes into the desk. The book he

was reading falls to the floor--

--and a "Tijuana Bible" is revealed within the pages. It's a

pornographic cartoon book of the type popular in the '30's,

featuring crude drawings of famous cartoon characters or

movie stars engaged in outlandish sexual acts. This one has

Olive Oyl getting it doggy-style from Popeye. The word

balloon over his head features his famous laugh: "Uk-uk-uk-

uk!"

Brutal grabs Percy by the ears, twisting hard. Percy lets out

a shriek--not just of pain, but a dismayed understanding that

he's not going to bluster his way out of this one.

Percy jerks his arms up before him. They get the straitjacket

on him within seconds. Percy turns to Paul on the verge of

tears. Softly:

Paul gives him a hard, angry shove...

INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT

...and they bring him down the Mile to the restraint room

door. Brutal takes Percy's holster and baton.

Paul steps forward with a roll of strapping tape.

He slaps the tape over Percy's mouth and shoves him back into

the restraint room. Percy stands breathing heavily through

his nose, making muffled mmmmph-mmmph! sounds under the tape.

And they slam the door, shutting Percy into darkness.

A WALL-MOUNTED GUN SAFE

is unlocked, shotguns pulled out. The men load up, heading

down the Mile as:

They come to Coffey's cell.

The cell is unlocked. Coffey emerges. Paul motions them

along, still grilling Dean:

A skinny white arm suddenly shoots out from Wild Bill's cell

and grabs Coffey by the wrist. The men gasp, shocked to see

Billy on his feet, grinning and weaving like a punch-drunk.

Coffey's reaction is beyond simple surprise; he's actually

trembling at Billy's touch as if some electrical circuit were

engaged. His eyes are wide and horrified, as if he'd just put

his hand in a basket full of snakes. He tries to pull away,

but Billy has him tight, that mysterious circuit blazing.

Coffey responds softly, with utmost horror:

Paul plucks Billy's hand off Coffey's arm--and Coffey

flinches back as the circuit is broken.

He turns and staggers back to his bunk, muttering all the way:

He goes face-first onto his bunk. Coffey is still staring.

INT. EXECUTION CHAMBER - NIGHT

Coffey is brought in...and freezes in horror at the sight of

Old Sparky. A whisper:

All eyes go to the electric chair. It sits shrouded in shadow

like an ominous throne. Never before has this place felt so

haunted to the men. It makes the hairs on the neck stand up.

Coffey finally responds, pulling away...

INT. E BLOCK ACCESS TUNNEL - NIGHT

...and they come down the steps. They realize Coffey will

have to stoop all the way down the tunnel. Paul pats the

gurney.

Coffey eases carefully onto the gurney, lying on his back.

His knees hang over the edge and his toes touch the ground,

but it works. They push him along, traversing the pools of

light.

Coffey actually starts to smile. He reaches out his arms,

fingertips touching the tunnel walls as they go by.

EXT. PRISON WALL - NIGHT

A massive iron door SQUEALS open onto a little-used fenced

enclosure. Paul and the others bring Coffey up from the

tunnel below, emerging into the night. Coffey's breath

catches as he gazes wondrously up at the stars, pointing:

Harry goes first, hugging the shadows as he pulls his keys to

unlock the gate...

WIDE SHOT OF PRISON

...while TOWER GUARDS huddle in their enclosure atop the

walls. An occasional SPOTLIGHT cuts the darkness. FIREFLIES

dance in the fields and trees as far as the eye can see.

Four dark figures detach from the shadows, hurrying across

the lonely country road into the fields on the far side...

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

Coffey's hand scoops up some fallen leaves. TILT UP to his

face as he crunches them under his nose, inhaling their smell.

He see the guards throwing him anxious looks. He misreads

this, holds out his hand so they can smell too. They do it,

just to make him happy.

A FEW FIREFLIES come winking through frame as the group

presses on...

ANOTHER AREA/WOODS

The trees are growing sparser, opening onto fields. MORE

FIREFLIES are flitting into view, trailing in their wake...

Harry brings them to a thicket of trees. They start removing

branches and boughs, uncovering a battered old FARMALL TRUCK

hidden in the brush.

The men pause. Even more fireflies are swirling around them,

growing in number. It's getting downright weird.

Coffey laughs softly, drawing their attention. A childlike

smile has utterly transformed his face. He raises his hand,

letting a firefly weave playfully in and out of his fingers.

Another firefly joins the first, both now dancing and

blinking around his fingers. Coffey laughs again.

The men stand gaping. The fireflies are flitting to Coffey as

if to a beacon. He waves his hands slowly, fireflies blinking

and trailing from his fingertips like magic dust.

They begin orbiting his shiny bald head like tiny glowing

planet orbiting a sun, their light kicking a mellow sheen off

his ebony skin. Coffey's eyes meet Paul's.

The men don't know whether to be enchanted or terrified.

Harry gives Paul a look--can we go? Please?

Coffey clambers up on the stakebed. Paul and Brutal join him.

Harry gets in behind the wheel, jabs the starter button...

ON THE STAKEBED

...while Coffey sits with his back to the cab.

The truck pulls out. Coffey waves as the fireflies get left

behind, dwindling away like stars.

WIDE ANGLE OF COUNTRYSIDE

The truck rumbles from the fields onto a dirt road, countless

fireflies swirling in its wake...

EXT. MOORES HOUSE - NIGHT

Headlights come over the rise. The truck appears, rumbling

down toward the house. The world is isolated and still.

IN THE TRUCK CAB

Harry stops and cuts the engine, leaving the headlights on.

Silence now, save for the trilling of crickets.

IN THE STAKEBED

Paul and Brutal both look terrified now that they're actually

here. An urgent whisper:

Paul hesitates, wanting to do just that, but:

Lights are coming on inside the house. Coffey rises and steps

down from the truck, pulling Paul along. Brutal follows them.

Paul and Brutal walk to the front door as the lights inside

the house keep clicking on. The last one finally comes on

over the stoop, the front door opens a crack...and the twin

barrels of a shotgun poke out into the night.

The door swings wider, revealing Hal's face gaunt and haggard

in the yellow porch light, stunned to see them:

Hal doesn't, aiming past them at the truck in the yard.

Coffey steps into the glare of headlights with Harry tugging

on his arm, trying to hold him back. Hal cocks both hammers.

His aim wavers as a woman's voice comes from upstairs:

A frozen moment. Hal mortified. Paul gives him a look--is

that Melinda?

Hal's shotgun shifts back to Coffey--but Paul steps in front

of the muzzle.

Coffey comes up the steps, brushes Paul aside, stops before

the warden. Hal blinks, his thoughts suddenly fuzzy--it's

that benign hypnotic effect Coffey has.

We hear the sound of GLASS BREAKING, then she begins to sob.

Coffey pulls the shotgun gently from Hal's grasp, hands it to

Paul. Coffey moves past Hal into the house...

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

...and comes up the hallway toward the stairs.

Coffey mounts the stairs with the others at his heels,

heading up toward that quavering voice:

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Coffey enters, trailed by the others. Paul pauses, horrified.

The woman propped in bed barely resembles Melinda Moores

anymore--she looks made up like a Halloween witch, her livid

skin hanging in a loose trail of wrinkles, one corner of her

mouth twisted. Yellowish bile stains her chin and the front

of her nightgown. Her hair has gone white and straw-like, her

eyes glowering at Coffey with lively, irrational interest:

Hal groans with despair. Coffey just stands there for a

moment, watching her from a distance, then approaches the

bed...

...but as he draws closer, a change occurs. Her features

soften, her eyes become more sane and aware.

Coffey sits on the edge of the bed. The lights seem to flare

hotter and brighter. Tears are forming in Melinda's eyes.

She lays back, staring at him with shining fascination. The

world seems to be slowing down, growing very still indeed...

...and he starts bending slowly toward her.

He comes closer...closer still...

He brushes her forehead with his lips...the gentlest whisper

of a kiss...then moves his mouth down to hers. For a moment

we can see one of her eyes staring past him, filling with an

expression of surprise...

...and then her face is lost to view as Coffey puts his lips

on hers. We hear a soft whistling sound as he begins inhaling

the air deeply from her lungs. Something hot and glowing

starts passing between them, drawn on his breath...

The men watch. The house seems to shudder in that moment, as

if the entire world has shifted an inch to the right...

DOWNSTAIRS PARLOR

...and the grandfather clock stops ticking, the pendulum

stopping dead, the glass face cracking neatly up the center...

BEDROOM

...and a windowpane cracks. Then another. A picture falls off

the wall. A lightbulb bursts, showering glass.

Paul smells smoke, realizes the fringed coverlet of the bed

has caught fire. Moving like a man in a dream, he reaches for

the waterglass on the nightstand, douses the flames.

Coffey keeps kissing Melinda in that deep and mysterious way,

inhaling and inhaling, her hand held in his like a tiny white

bird. For a moment we actually hear something screaming, as

if some willful imp were being extracted by force...

...and then it's over. Coffey raises his head, revealing:

Melinda's beautiful face. Her mouth no longer droops. Color

is coming back to her hair. Her skin is shining with life.

Coffey regards her raptly for a moment or two, then starts

coughing violently.

He turns away and drops to his knees, hacking like a man in

the last stages of tuberculosis.

Paul and his men are expecting Coffey to spit out the "bugs",

but he doesn't--he just keeps coughing, deep and hard, barely

finding time to snatch in the next breath of air.

Hal goes to his wife, beyond stunned, sits at her side. She

looks back at him with amazement, her face like a dirty

mirror that's been suddenly wiped clean.

John's coughing grows even worse. Brutal drops to his side

and slaps his broad, spasming back.

Coffey just keeps retching, eyes watering from the strain,

spit flying from his mouth.

Paul starts toward them. Coffey crawls away, pressing himself

into a corner with his face against the wallpaper. He's still

making gruesome deep hacking sounds, but getting it under

control. He weakly waves Paul off--let me be.

Paul looks to the bed. Hal sits with Melinda, stroking her

brow. Color is blooming in her cheeks even as we watch.

They both look at him.

Hal bursts into tears. Melinda sits up, comforting him. Her

eyes are drawn to the corner.

Coffey is struggling to rise. Brutal does his best to help.

Coffey turns. His face is ashen gray, seriously ill.

She pushes the covers aside to rise. Hal tries to stop her...

...but she pushes his hand gently aside. Hal watches in

wonder as she stands, takes a first tentative step...and

walks to Coffey. She gazes up and touches his face.

She undoes her necklace, holds it up for him. He hesitates,

glances to Paul. Paul nods--it's all right. Coffey lowers his

head. Melinda affixes the delicate chain around his neck.

Her arms go around his neck, hugging him tightly as if she

might never let go.

EXT. MOORES HOUSE - NIGHT

Paul and the men hustle Coffey out the front door toward the

truck, helping him as best they can. He's weak as a baby,

knees threatening to give out at any moment.

They get Coffey to the truck and throw their backs into it,

helping him crawl up onto the stakebed. He rolls over on his

back. Harry hops up, covers him with an old blanket. Brutal

pulls aside, speaking low:

IN BLACKNESS, A TITLE CARD APPEARS:

INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT

Dean starts babbling with relief as they return:

Dean jumps in, helps them steer Coffey into his cell.

Coffey nods, sits heavily on the bunk. He lowers his head,

breath rasping like a rusted hinge. The guards step out.

Paul scans their faces. Smiles are traded. An exultant beat.

Dean hurries off to retrieve Percy's holster and baton.

Brutal unlocks the restraint room door, swings it open. Percy

is revealed sitting against the wall, glaring, his mouth

still taped. Paul crouches down. Brutal joins him.

Percy nods. Paul takes hold of the tape, preparing to yank.

Paul rips the tape off. Percy's eyes water with pain.

Paul slaps him hard, knocks him sideways. Percy looks up,

blinking in surprise. Paul grabs him, yanks him back up.

Percy blinks, unable to grasp that.

A long pause. Softly:

They pull him to his feet, undo the straps. He shrugs out of

the straitjacket and adjusts his clothes, trying to maintain

a shred of dignity.

Dean hands them over. Percy smooths his hair and puts his hat

on, starts strapping on his holster belt.

Percy exits the restraint room. Brutal whispers to Paul:

Paul nods with weary resignation--yeah, I know.

ON THE MILE

Percy pauses near Coffey's cell, careless as always, getting

his holster buckled--and a massive black arm grabs him

through the bars. His SCREAM brings Paul and the others from

the restraint room.

Coffey's face is pressed so tight between his bars it looks

like he's trying to push his head through. He draws his lips

back, baring his teeth in an awful sneer...

Percy whacks him with his baton. Coffey barely seems to feel

it. He curls his free hand around the back of Percy's head,

pulling him ever closer...

...and Percy's screams are muffled as their mouths come

together. Coffey begins exhaling as if he'd held his breath

for hours. Percy jerks like a fish on a hook, but can't get

away. The men jump in, try to pry Percy loose, hollering for

Coffey to let him go.

The black "insects" are flowing from Coffey to Percy,

swirling into his mouth, up his nose, down his throat.

Several lightbulbs explode in their steel cages up and down

the Mile. Percy's baton drops from his nerveless fingers and

clatters to the floor, never to be picked up again.

And then Coffey steps back, rubbing his mouth as if he's

tasted something bad. The color has returned to his skin.

Percy, however, is ashen gray. His expression is blank as a

sheet of paper, not a trace of awareness in his eyes.

The men are stunned. Paul raises his hand to Percy's face,

snaps his fingers. Nothing. He tries again, clapping loudly.

Percy reacts slightly, eyes fluttering, swaying a bit.

Percy says nothing. He turns and walks slowly up the Mile,

his movements vacant and disjointed. He comes to a swaying

stop at Wild Bill's cell...and turns slowly to look in.

Wild Bill is coming painfully around, groggily clutching his

head. He looks up, see Percy.

Nothing for the longest moment. Percy just staring...

...and then he pulls his gun and empties it into Wild Bill as

fast as he can pull the trigger. BAM!BAM!BAM!BAM!BAM!BAM!

Bill takes all six rounds in the chest, reeling back across

the cell. He hits the wall and slides down, leaving a smear,

his face registering a final look of stunned surprise.

Paul and the other tackle Percy and bring him down, wrestling

the gun out of his hand. Dean is almost weeping:

Percy is flat on his back, staring up at nothing. The black

"bugs" come drifting out of nose and mouth, swirling in the

air over his head. They turn white and disappear.

The men are speechless. Paul turns, sees Coffey sitting on

the floor at his bars, watching.

Coffey reaches toward him, straining through the bars.

Paul hesitates, torn between reason and Coffey's pleading

eyes. A whisper:

Paul can't help it. He has to. Their hands come together.

Paul lurches wildly as that circuit starts blazing between

them...

...and Paul sees:

The Detterick twins. Kathe and Cora. Laughing and playing

hopscotch in the dust under a later afternoon sun...

A dinner table. Family having supper late in the day, basket

of biscuits being passed. Twelve year old Howie Detterick

taking it, passing it on...

An hand with a paint brush slopping bright red paint on the

side of a barn...

Kathe skipping to the head of the hopscotch squares, turning

and starting back, laughing in the sun...

The paint brush slopping more paint, dripping like blood...

Paul jerks and twists, trying to pull away, trying to break

the circuit, but he can't, not till all is seen and done:

Marjorie Detterick calling from the porch for everybody to

come eat, supper's ready...

A hammer pausing. Klaus looking down from atop the barn...

The Detterick twins finishing their hopscotch, gathering

their jump ropes from the dust, running across the yard...

The basket of biscuits being passed to little Cora, who takes

a biscuit and passes it on...

Klaus coming down the ladder, calling to his daughters. The

little girls running past the man with the paint brush, who

turns and smile as they go by...it's Wild Bill.

The basket of biscuits is passed one last time. A hand pulls

one out, raises it for a bite. It's Wild Bill, smiling at the

little girls as conversation flows around the table...

Paul screams, trying to pull away, but:

The porch door is kicked off its hinges just before dawn, a

figure looming in the doorway. Kathe wakes, her scream cut

short as the man's fist punches her hard in the face...

Paul trembles violently as if riding the lightning himself,

pleading for it to stop, but there's one last thing:

Wild Bill looms over the terrified little girls like a

horrendous boogeyman, whispers to Kathe:

And he drags them out into the coming dawn...

...as Coffey lets Paul go. Paul is gasping, back in the real

world where his men are staring at him with wide eyes.

Paul nods, numb. Tears are flowing down Coffey's face. Softly:

WILD BILL

lies dead, staring with glassy eyes. A FLASHBULB POPS,

rimming him with harsh blue light...

INT. E BLOCK - DAWN

...as Hal arrives, wearing his pajama top under his overcoat.

He sees the POLICE PHOTOGRAPHER taking pictures. The guards

are giving statements to GROUPS OF COPS, everybody murmuring:

Hal turns, sees:

PERCY

sits handcuffed on the floor of the Mile, eyes glassier than

Wild Bill's. TWO COPS are trying to snap him out of it:

A MEDIC is raising Percy's eyelid with his thumb, shining a

penlight, getting no reaction.

HAL

sees Paul, motions him aside to talk privately:

Paul looks Hal in the eye. As with Bitterbuck, the lie comes

easy:

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

TRACKING A PAIR OF FEET shuffling into the room in hospital

slippers, escorted by TWO ORDERLIES. The patient is brought

to a window. The orderlies turn to leave...

...and we BOOM UP to reveal Percy, catatonic, staring out the

same window where we met Wild Bill...

EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY

...and we WIDEN SLOWLY from Percy at the window to reveal his

last stop in life. It's emblazoned on the gate: BRIAR RIDGE

MENTAL HOSPITAL. He finally got that transfer.

EXT. PAUL'S HOUSE - DUSK

TIGHT ON PAUL as softly:

ANGLE SHIFTS to include Jan, Brutal, Harry and Dean. They're

in the brambly patch that borders the woods behind the house.

The sun is setting, turning the horizon fiery.

Jan stands thinking for a moment, then:

Dean blinks, stunned by this notion. Gently:

Jan swipes a tear away with the heel of her hand. Softly:

Paul tries to take her hand. She wrenches away, furious.

She runs off toward the house, starting to sob as we

INT  PAUL'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Paul is at the kitchen table in the wee hours, at his regular

place, sipping his beer. Irving Berlin's "Remember" PLAYS

SOFTLY on the radio. Jan comes down, looking miserable and

exhausted.

She can't help smiling at that. He returns the smile, offers

her a sip of beer. She takes it, sits.

INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT

Coffey sits quietly in his cell, a solitary firefly flitting

in circles around his finger. Paul and the men appear. The

firefly flits away, vanishing through Coffey's tiny window.

Brutal unlocks his cell. Paul enters.

Coffey gives it some careful thought.

Coffey gives him a look--please.

Paul sits, working himself up to it:

Paul hesitates, emotions swirling, trying to find the right

words.

Coffey hesitates--now he's the one trying to find the right

words, trying to make Paul understand:

By now, Paul is blinking back tears. Softly:

Coffey thinks about this long and hard, finally looks up.

TIGHT ON COFFEY'S FACE

gazing with wide-eyed, open-mouthed wonder, the light of a

motion picture projector flickering on his skin...

INT  PRISON AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

...while Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers dance up there on the

big screen, images flowing in magical black and silver tone.

Paul and the men are scattered about in the otherwise empty

auditorium, also watching.

PROJECTION BOOTH

Toot operates the projector, peering through the tiny window

into the theater. He yawns, glances at his watch. Late.

IN THE AUDITORIUM

Fred and Ginger are now in the most passionate and graceful

part of the dance. Irving Berlin's music swells.

COFFEY

can't believe what he's seeing. He's so excited his breath is

caught in his throat. Softly:

INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT

FOUR PAIRS OF FEET come marching up the Green Mile.

ANGLE ON COFFEY

Paul appears at the bars with Brutal, Harry, and Dean.

Nothing is said. Coffey knows why they're here. He rises as

Brutal unlocks the cell, slides the door open. Coffey steps

out, looks around at their dazed and sad faces.

Paul indicates St. Christopher medal around John's neck:

John lets him take the necklace. Paul pockets it. They start

to walk the Mile as:

He laughs at the memory of it, then grows more serious:

Behind them, Dean stifles a sob.

PAUL'S INNER OFFICE

Coffey kneels. Paul joins him, self-conscious and uncertain.

Paul nods--strength it is. Dean surprises Brutal and Harry by

also kneeling. Brutal and Harry hesitate...then join them.

Paul starts to rise, but Coffey takes his hand.

Coffey closes his eyes, frowning in deep concentration.

And Paul sees:

Kathe and Cora Detterick kneeling together in the enclosed

porch that night, just before their bedtime:

And then the vision is gone as:

Coffey rises, offers Paul his hand, helps him up.

EXECUTION CHAMBER

Full house tonight. Bill Dodge is waiting at Old Sparky.

Silence as Coffey is led in, all eyes on him. Klaus and

Marjorie Detterick are in the front row. She mutters:

COFFEY

is faltering as Paul and Brutal bring him to the chair.

Coffey tries to take comfort in it, but flinches as:

She dissolves into tears. Klaus pulls her against his

shoulder, looking dazed by the whole thing.

Paul and Brutal turn John around, sit him down. Paul notices

Dean crying again, his back to the witnesses. They kneel to

apply the leg clamps, while Brutal and Harry secure the arms.

Dean nods, wiping his face with the sleeve of his coat. They

rise, stepping back. This time, Paul's out front:

Van Hay cranks the generator. The lights flare hotter and

brighter. It's just like in Melinda's bedroom the night

Coffey cured her with a kiss. Airless and bright, dreamlike.

John hesitates, nods.

Brutal takes the mask from the hook to draw it over Coffey's

head. Coffey looks to Paul with terrified, pleading eyes.

Brutal puts the mask back, proceeds with the sponge.

IN TIGHT ANGLES

The cap is lowered, the straps drawn. Coffey is breathing

fast, terrified, muttering under his breath:

THE WITNESSES

sit and wait, barely breathing.

JACK VAN HAY

is poised at the switch, wondering why the order won't come.

PAUL

is staring at Coffey, unable to say the words.

Paul can't. He reaches out and touches Coffey's hand. Their

fingers clasp. In that moment, staring into his eyes, Paul

hears the last thought that ever goes through Coffey's head:

Their fingers disengage. Paul steps back, eyes still locked

with Coffey's, and says the hardest words he's ever spoken:

Van Hay throws the switch. Coffey surges forward, fingers

splayed and jittering past Old Sparky's arms.

Lights begin blowing out all over the Mile, raining shattered

glass and sparks. Some of the witnesses scream.

A thin line of blood comes trickling out of Klaus Detterick's

nose. He reaches up, absently wipes it away.

Coffey's eyes are locked on Paul's, riding the lightning all

the way. He finally slumps. Van Hay kills the current.

Coffey's expression is peaceful, as if sleeping. A final pair

of tears drift gently down his cheeks.

INT. ACCESS TUNNEL - NIGHT

Paul ever so carefully replaces the St. Christopher's medal

around Coffey's neck. They wheel him down the tunnel.

INT. PAUL'S MODEL T - NIGHT

Paul drives home, his heart numb.

EXT. PAUL'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Paul pulls in, cuts the engine. He sits for a moment, then

gets out and heads for the house.

The door opens. Jan steps out in her nightgown and robe to

meet him on the stairs. She takes him in her arms.

Paul can't hold it back anymore. He breaks down sobbing

against her as we

INT. NURSING HOME SUNROOM - PRESENT DAY

It's late in the day as:

ANGLE SHIFTS TO Elaine listening. Uncertain.

She shakes her head. Paul thinks for a moment, comes to a

decision.

EXT. GEORGIA PINES - DAY

The rain has mostly stopped. Brad Dolan, back in street

clothes, gets in his pickup truck and drives away...

INT. NURSING HOME - DAY

...while Paul and Elaine watch from a window.

EXT. GEORGIA PINES - DAY

This time, we see two red specks trudging slowly up the ridge

toward the treeline.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Paul brings Elaine along the wooded path into view of the

storage shacks. They're both wearing ponchos.

He gives her a smile, offers his hand. She takes it.

INT. SHACK - DAY

We see Paul approach through the grimy window as before, this

time bringing Elaine. ANGLE SHIFTS to the door as they

arrive, creaking open on rusty hinges to reveal them.

They enter. Elaine looks around at the musty nooks and

crannies, wondering what they're doing here. Paul touchers

arm, directs her attention:

Elaine moves closer, sees it on the dusty floorboards:

An old cigar box.

For a moment, she doesn't know what to make of it.

Elaine's breath catches in her throat...

...as a pair of bright oilspot eyes peer over the edge of the

cigar box. It's a mouse. His fur, once brown, is now all gray.

Paul gets down on the floor, holds out his hand.

The mouse tries several times to get over the side of the

cigar box before he finally makes it. He comes to them,

hobbling and crippled with arthritis. Paul pulls a slice of

toast from his pocket, breaks off a small piece for the mouse.

Paul says nothing, just pulls a spool from his pocket. Mr.

Jingles might be old, but he's as obsessed as ever. He gets

ready to fetch, eyes riveted to the spool. Softly:

Paul tosses the spool. The mouse limps painfully after it. He

reaches it, goes around...and has to lay down to catch his

breath. Elaine starts forward, but Paul holds her back.

After a moment, Mr. Jingles finds his feet again. He rises

and starts nosing the spool back to Paul.

He glances around at the shack with a sad smile.

They gasp and spin. Brad Dolan stands in the doorway.

He pauses, seeing Mr. Jingles.

Brad grabs an old garden hoe--the blade's rusted, but still

sharp enough to cut a mouse in two.

Paul rushes in front of Brad, fists clenched, yelling:

Brad gives Paul a hard shove, pins him against the wall.

Elaine is suddenly at Brad's elbow, seething with fury:

Brad's smile falters. Elaine steps closer.

Brad eases his grip on Paul...and backs off.

Brad flushes red, heads for the door. He pauses.

And off he goes. Paul tries to control the shaking in his

hands, looks to Elaine.

Paul bends down, picks Mr. Jingles up.

The mouse stretches his neck forward, nose twitching,

smelling Paul's breath. Paul looks to Elaine. Softly:

Paul looks at the mouse, strokes him gently between the ears.

CAMERA PUSHES SLOWLY IN on Paul as:

INT. FUNERAL HOME - DAY

Paul, dressed in a dark suit, comes up the aisle. ANGLE

SHIFTS to reveal Elaine Connelly lying in the open casket.

Paul lays a rose atop the casket.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Paul stands at the graveside as the casket is lowered.

He turns and walks away.

INT. E BLOCK - NIGHT(1935)

Empty and silent. Young Paul walks the Mile alone, listening

to the quiet. He pauses, seeing something. A whisper:

It is Mr. Jingles. The little mouse is peering from under the

restraint room door. He's come home, looking bedraggled. Paul

bends down, gently picks him up.

Paul turns and head back up the Green Mile, carrying the

mouse cupped in his hands as we

INT. NURSING HOME - DAY

Young Paul transforms into Old Paul in the dissolve, the

corridor of the Green Mile becoming the corridor of the

nursing home. He's walking along, holding the little mouse

the same way he did over sixty years ago.

INT. PAUL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Paul lies awake, staring at the moon outside his window.

He looks over at the nightstand...

...and WE PAN to reveal Mr. Jingles sleeping fitfully in his

cigar box, chasing that spool in his dreams as we

--------------------------------------------------------------

