FADE IN:

EXT. RUIDOSO DOWNS - DAY

AN ANGLE establishing the race track, Ruidoso Downs

(pronounced Ree-oh-do-so), set among the beautiful mountains

of New Mexico's Lincoln National Forest, as a white Chrysler

turns in with a stream of cars moving toward the parking

area.

AN ANGLE through the open driver-side window of the Chrysler

at LILLY DILLON, 39 but looking younger, beautiful but cold

and watchful.

WIDE SHOT, track in b.g. as Lilly parks the Chrysler, gets

out, locks the car. As she walks toward the track, WIPE

RIGHT, as SCENE TWO WIPES IN from the left. SCENE ONE CAMERA

FOLLOWS Lilly as she walks across the large parking area.

SPLIT SCREEN.

SCENE TWO:

EXT. SIDE STREET - DAY

Downtown Los Angeles, near the courts and the business

section. ROY DILLON, 25, handsome and charming but self

indulgent, parks his orange Honda convertible, gets out,

picks up a large ledger book from the back seat, goes around

to open the trunk.

AN ANGLE on the trunk, establishing the tools of the

salesman's trade: catalogs, samples, ledgers full of manuals

and product sheets. Roy adds the ledger from the back seat,

shuts the trunk, walks away.

EXT. 6TH STREET - DAY

Roy walks around the corner near a bar/restaurant. As he

approaches it, WIPE LEFT, the two half-width scenes

contracting to one-third each as SCENE THREE WIPES IN from

the right.

SCENE ONE: Lilly approaches the track's entrance doors.

SCENE TWO: Roy approaches the bar.

SCENE THREE:

EXT. SANTA MONICA BOULEVARD - DAY

A baby blue Cadillac parks in front of a jeweler.

AN ANGLE on the driver's door as MYRA LANGTRY, 36, beautiful

in an impersonal calculating way, gets out, carrying a small

jewelry care, and locks the car. At first glance, Myra looks

rather like Lilly. (Myra always wears large dangly earrings,

and usually wears big-lensed dark sunglasses.)

SIMULTANEOUSLY:

SCENE ONE: Lilly enters the track.

SCENE TWO: Roy enters the bar.

SCENE THREE: Myra enters the jeweler's.

WIPE RIGHT AND LEFT, as SCENE TWO takes FULL SCREEN.

INT. BAR - DAY

AN ANGLE on a hurried bartender in a full bar, crowded with a

NOISY lunchtime crowd. In b.g., Roy slithers his way to the

bar, waving a bill in the air to attract the bartender's

attention.

AN ANGLE on Roy as the bartender comes to him. Roy puts the

bill on the bar, holding it down with one finger, as he

SHOUTS his order. The bartender looks down.

BARTENDER'S POV: Roy's finger holds down a twenty dollar

bill.

AN ANGLE steep over Roy's shoulder, the twenty visible, as

the bartender hurries away to get the drink. Roy's hand makes

a fist, swallowing the twenty, opens, pushing a ten out onto

the bar, holding it there with one finger.

AN ANGLE on the bartender returning with a draft beer,

nodding to other ORDERS shouted to him along the way, putting

the beer down, grabbing the bill without looking at it,

hurrying away.

AN ANGLE on Roy, content, smiling, sipping his beer.

AN ANGLE on the bartender, hurrying by, slapping Roy's change

down, moving on, Roy nodding acknowledgement, reaching out.

CU, the change, a ten dollar bill on top. Roy's hand closes

over it.

EXT. TOTE BOARD - DAY

WIDE SHOT, the tote board at the track, showing the shifting

odds on the horses for the next race, the amounts bet.

CLOSE SHOT, number 3. Not much bet, odds 70-1.

EXT. RUIDOSO DOWNS - DAY

AN ANGLE on Lilly, frowning at the tote board. She carries a

large heavy shoulder-bag, which she opens, looking in it as

though it were a file drawer.

AN ANGLE on Lilly studying the contents of her bag, the track

beyond her, the mountains visible out beyond the track wall.

Lilly moves.

AN ANGLE on a high-dollar betting window, as Lilly

approaches, taking bank-banded wads of bills from her bag.

EXT. TOTE BOARD - DAY

A change of numbers sweeps across the board.

EXT. RUIDOSO DOWNS - DAY

Lilly moves away from the betting window, tucking betting

tickets into her bag.

ECU, Lilly's bag, compartmented, with stacks of money, small

envelopes and notes on notepaper in each compartment. Lilly

carefully files the betting slips.

AN ANGLE on Lilly looking out at the tote board.

EXT. TOTE BOARD - DAY

CU, number 3. Odds 32-1.

EXT. RUIDOSO DOWNS - DAY

AN ANGLE on Lilly, not satisfied. She turns and goes back.

AN ANGLE at the betting window as Lilly arrives and makes

more bets.

EXT. TOTE BOARD - DAY

CU, number 3. Odds 32-1. CROWD NOISE INCREASES. The numbers

shift: odds 26-1.

INT. JEWELER'S OFFICE - DAY

Very quiet, stately; abrupt contrast with the track. A slow

ticking clock.

Myra sits in the client's chair, while at the desk sits the

JEWELER, a pleasant but overweight man of 40, who studies a

jeweled bracelet through a loupe. He sighs, drops the loupe,

shakes his head regretfully.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

An expensive hotel room, with a sunstruck day beyond the

windows. Myra, naked, a few years younger, sits cross-legged

on the bed and laughs at COLE "FARMER" LANGLEY, 55, stringy

bodied, who stands naked, his back to us, hands on hips,

presenting himself to Myra. She reaches forward, hand hidden

by his body as she lifts something that was hanging on

something at the front of him. She brings back the bracelet,

looks at it, is delighted, puts it on, and then leans forward

again toward the unmoving Cole, her head hidden by his body.

INT. JEWELER'S OFFICE - DAY

Myra expected -- and needed -- a lot more. She's worried,

tense, but stuck. She nods.

He leaves the room. Myra grimaces, in almost physical pain.

INT. SECOND BAR - DAY

Another crowded lunchtime bar. A big beefy BARTENDER moves

quickly, carrying a draft beer.

AN ANGLE on Roy, in position, finger holding bill down, as

the bartender arrives, puts down the beer, reaches for the

bill, stops, stares at the bill.

TWO SHOT, the bartender and Roy, as the bartender gives Roy a

very cold look. He knows, and Roy knows he knows. Roy tries

an innocent smile, which doesn't work. Roy moves.

CU, the ten dollar bill, as Roy grabs it, but the bartender

simultaneously grabs Roy's wrist.

AN ANGLE on Roy and the bartender as Roy tries to pull away

and the bartender holds him with his left hand while reaching

under the bar with his right. He comes up with a sawed-off

baseball bat. Roy, seeing it, throws his free arm up to

protect his head, but the bartender pushes the blunt end of

the bat straight across the bar at a downward angle and hard

into Roy's solar plexus, driving the air out of him and

propelling him back away from the bar, leaving the ten. The

nearest CUSTOMERS on both sides become aware that something

happened, but nothing follows and they're already involved in

conversations. The bartender scoops up the ten as he puts the

bat away under the bar.

AN ANGLE on Roy, arms folded across his torso, staring in

shock toward the bar, where the space he filled has already

been closed in by other bodies. Nearly retching, he stumbles

toward the door.

EXT. RUIDOSO DOWNS - DAY

AN ANGLE on four PEOPLE at a table, CHEERING a race,

switching to disgust and despair when they lose, moving away

from the table, leaving their betting tickets behind. Lilly

passes by, smoothly and casually scoops up the tickets, moves

on along a row of tables, and there finding more tickets.

INT. JEWELER'S OFFICE - DAY

Myra sits as before. The jeweler enters with a check, which

he hands her. She looks up at him, making no move to leave.

The jeweler is puzzled, then startled.

He turns away, goes behind his desk, sits down, looks at

Myra.

Myra likes him better now, even though he hasn't solved her

problem. She rises.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Roy has been throwing up but is finished now. He's sprawled

like a shot deer across the hood of his Honda, still

clutching his stomach. A police car stops, the passenger COP

gets out. He's suspicious at first.

The sight of the uniform forces Roy into gear. He

straightens, smiling through his pain.

The con's suspicion changes to concern.

EXT. RUIDOSO DOWNS - DAY

Late afternoon. AN ANGLE on the parking area, where almost

all the cars are gone and the few remaining are widely

separated. The white Chrysler is one of these. Lilly walks to

it from the track entrance.

AN ANGLE on the Chrysler as Lilly opens the trunk, puts her

bag inside.

CLOSE UP, Lilly and the trunk. She takes betting tickets from

her bag, sorts them, files them in envelopes in different

compartments, puts some to one side, then sorts through these

separated tickets, throwing some away, keeping some. She

takes money from the bag, puts tickets in, closes the bag

with the money on the trunk floor. Reaching farther in, she

lifts the pad deep inside the trunk, lifts the metal floor

panel, and reveals a cache mostly filled with money. She adds

today's skim, puts everything away, puts the bag back on her

shoulder, closes the trunk.

EXT. MADERO APARTMENTS - DAY

A shabby apartment hotel on Wilshire. An exterior hall

balcony on each floor has the entrance doors to the front

apartments. Roy's Honda makes the turn and enters the

basement garage.

INT. MADERO LOBBY - DAY

Modest but clean. The owner, SIMMS, a sloppy garrulous old

bore, talks with a potential RENTER.

In b.g., Roy, still in pain, comes out of the elevator, waves

to Simms, who waves back without pausing in his monologue,

and crosses to the mailboxes.

Roy, carrying his junk mail and pretending not to be in pain,

crosses to Simms.

Simms doesn't like Mrs. Langtry, but can't say so.

Roy goes back to the elevator. Simms continues his monologue.

Roy enters the elevator.

Myra enters from the front, looks across at Simms, points

upward. Simms calls to her.

Myra crosses to the elevator. Simms speaks more softly.

EXT. ROY'S APARTMENT - DAY

AN ANGLE along the balcony, with Roy's apartment door in f.g.

and Los Angeles in b.g. Myra crosses to the door, opens it

with her key, enters.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

A small crowded old-fashioned bathroom. Roy, shirt open and

trousers pushed down almost to his crotch, looks in the

mirror at purplish greenish bruises on his stomach. He

touches his stomach, winces.

He looks at the door, then grins at his reflection.

He leaves the bathroom.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Hotel furniture, shabby and anonymous. On the walls,

contrasting with everything else, are two crying-clown

pictures on black velvet, mounted in big boxy frames. Myra

stands in the middle of the room, and Roy enters, shirt and

trousers still disarranged.

He reaches for her, but she playfully holds him off.

He grins, as his fingertip prods her breast.

EXT. HIGHWAY PHONE BOOTH - DAY

Lilly's white Chrysler is parked next to an open-air phone.

Traffic whizzes by. Lilly talks on the phone, with pen and

notebook at the ready. The racetrack is visible in the b.g.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

It could be an expensive, if gaudy, lawyer's office.

Baltimore harbor is visible past the windows. IRV, the

accountant, sits at a desk covered -- but neatly covered --

with ledgers, computer printouts, etc. He speaks on the

phone.

INTERCUT PHONE BOOTH AND OFFICE

This is Lilly making the best of the situation. She listens a

bit more, GRUNTS a farewell, hangs up, moves to her car.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Again, anonymous hotel furniture. Roy and Myra naked in bed,

he on his back, she straddling him, both moving gently. He's

half feeling pleasure, half unconscious.

He tries to concentrate on her.

He keeps watching her, ironic, hips moving. Looking for a

distraction, she notices the bruise on his stomach.

She touches it; he flinches back, in real pain.

She folds forward onto him. He puts his arms around her. They

rock together slowly.

EXT. MOTEL - DAY

The same mountains in b.g. as at the track. Lilly carries two

small bags from her motel room, puts them on the back seat of

the Cadillac, gets behind the wheel, drives away.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Myra, dressed, primps at the mirror, surveys herself

critically, is reasonably satisfied, leaves.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Roy lies supine on the bed, semi-conscious, half-covered by a

sheet. Myra, casual, not noticing his condition, leans her

head in through the doorway.

He moves fitfully, CROAKS an attempt at speech.

He sits up, trying to grin and be easy.

AN ANGLE across Roy's profile, with open bedroom door beyond

him. Through it, the living room and outer door can be seen.

Myra crosses the living room, opens the door. Bright sunlight

pours in, emphasizing the sweat on his face. She closes the

door, and he gives up trying to smile. Gingerly, he touches

his bruised stomach, winces.

He's going to get out of bed, but movement creates pain. He

sits back against the headboard, looks around, reaches

painfully to the bedside table drawer, takes a quarter from

it, studies the quarter, feels it with fingertips, places it

on the back of his left hand, slowly moves the soft pads of

his right palm over it, then turns the quarter over and

repeats. Then he takes the quarter in his right hand, flips

it, slaps it down onto the back of his left hand, SPEAKS

simultaneously with the hands coming together.

He looks away, right hand moving minimally on left hand.

He lifts the right hand, nods, then flips the coin again,

looks away, moves the right hand slightly.

Again he's right. Again he repeats.

He's about to repeat when a wave of weakness comes over him.

He sits back, gasping, but won't acknowledge the problem.

He forces himself to flip the coin, misses catching it, finds

it on the blanket, flips it again, slaps it onto the back of

the other hand, looks away.

Right again. He prepares to flip the coin, but then his hand

sags onto the covers, his chin drops, his eyes glaze.

INT. PASSENGER TRAIN - DAY

The train runs through a forest, tree shadows making a light

and-dark pattern. Roy, four or five years younger, sits with

a three-core-monte gang, consisting of a DEALER, a spectacled

SHILL beside him, Roy facing the dealer, a ROPER next to Roy.

On a briefcase on the dealer's lap are three cards, face up:

An ace and two deuces. Across the aisle, alone in the seats,

sits MINTZ, a conman in his fifties, pretending not to watch,

but watching with amusement.

The dealer turns aside, allowing himself to be distracted. He

and the shill ARGUE nonsensically. The roper nudges Roy, then

reaches out and crimps the ace. Roy's doing a wide-eyed

bumpkin kid; he stares at the roper in delight and amazement.

AN ANGLE on the shill, arguing with the dealer but looking

toward Roy and the roper, then increasing the force of his

argument.

AN ANGLE across the amused Mintz at the roper whispering to

Roy.

TWO SHOT, Roy and the roper.

The roper's having trouble keeping his patience.

TWO SHOT, the dealer and the shill, fake-squabbling, Roy and

the roper seen in b.g. between their faces, Roy finally

bringing out his wallet, withdrawing a bill. Relieved, the

dealer and the shill cut the crap.

AN ANGLE on the group as Roy puts his hundred dollar bill on

the briefcase.

The shill pulls a messy wad of bills from his inner pocket,

uses most of it to cover the bet.

ECU, the dealer's hands, shuffling the cards at lightning

speed. He deals the cards out face down.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

CU, Roy's sweat-covered face, eyelids fluttering.

INT. PASSENGER TRAIN - DAY

AN ANGLE on the group. Roy squints at the cards, light and

dark playing on his face.

Casually, but too quickly to be stopped, he reaches across

and plucks the shill's glasses off.

AN ANGLE across Mintz, surprised and amused, at the group in

b.g., in consternation as Roy puts on the glasses and looks

down at the cards.

ROY'S POV: The glasses are 'readers.' Through them, a large

gray 'A' can be seen on the back of one of the non-crimped

cards. Roy's hand reaches out and flips it over. It's the ace

of spades.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

AN ANGLE across Roy toward the doorway. Roy, eyes closed,

smiles in triumph, then winces in pain. Mintz partially

appears, hovering beside the bed, grinning at Roy.

INT. AIRPORT DEPARTURE LOUNGE - DAY

Weary bored people sit around waiting. Roy, 17, lugging a big

suitcase, walks through, takes a seat near Mintz, who's doing

card tricks for his own pleasure. Roy watches, then moves

closer.

Mintz peers at him, taking an interest. Then he holds up the

five of spades, shows it to Roy, puts it back in the deck,

shuffles, shows Roy the deck.

Mintz grins slowly, turns his hand over with the palmed card

showing.

INT. BEDROOM NIGHT

Roy slumps, eyes closed, half-smiling, with the fever Mintz

hovering. Roy's smile fades, his fluttering eyelids grow

still, his face slack. The fever Mintz fades and disappears.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

AN ANGLE on a large sign indicating "Los Angeles" straight

ahead. CAMERA PANS DOWN and around 180 degrees to face the

several lanes of heavy Los Angeles-bound traffic. LONG BEAT.

Hundreds of cars rush by. CAMERA PANS with Lilly's white

Chrysler as it comes along in the stream.

AN ANGLE through the Chrysler's left side window at Lilly,

driving, concentrating, biting her left thumbnail. She

becomes aware that's what she's doing, shakes her head in

irritation: She's trying to break herself of this habit.

Ostentatiously she tucks the thumb into her fist, rests the

fist on top of the steering wheel, where she can keep an eye

on it.

HIGH ANGLE on the westbound lanes. The Chrysler passes. Soon

it's out of sight among all the other cars. LONG BEAT.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

AN ANGLE across the unmoving unconscious Roy toward the

doorway. The apartment door beyond the living room opens,

throwing light on Roy, who doesn't react. Lilly enters, in

silhouette, closes the door, crosses toward the bedroom.

(Until she speaks, we can't be quite sure who this is. With

the similarity between herself and Myra, this could be Myra.)

No reaction. Lilly, getting worried, moves closer, through

the bedroom doorway.

His head moves slightly. He barely has strength to speak.

She moves forward to the side of the bed, only her torso IN

FRAME. She touches a hand to his forehead.

She turns, hurries back to the living room, looks around for

the phone, crosses to it, dials, SPEAKS. Roy's eyes open, he

frowns.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Lilly, hard and fast and urgent, on the phone.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

AN ANGLE down toward Roy, from above, he's weak but troubled.

Eyes closed, frowning, whispering.

Roy's eyes close. He looks dead. SLOW FADE.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

The DOCTOR, a nervous heavyset man in his fifties, a drinker

from the look of him, is on the phone in b.g., while Lilly

prowls the room, looking at everything with distaste, then

stopping to frown at the box-framed clown pictures. She

doesn't get it. She touches one of the pictures, trying to

understand. The doctor hangs up, turns to Lilly.

He's uncomfortable, wants to dismiss that part of his life.

The doctor stares at her in astonishment, then in belief.

SOUND of ambulance siren. To break the moment, he crosses to

the door, opens it. Light bathes Lilly. The doctor steps back

across the threshold, waiting for the ambulance. He looks

back at Lilly, who stares at him.

INT. AMBULANCE - DAY

ECU, Roy, skin pallid, eyes closed and sunken, lips white.

SOUND of siren LOUDER. SOUND SEGUES to CHILD CRYING. CRYING

FADES.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

A clumsy slum hotel fifteen years ago, with a tiny lobby, the

DESK CLERK at a half-door in one wall. Lilly, at 24, enters

from the street. This is a definite hooker, with bright

maroon hair and a black-and-white miniskirt. She stops

wordlessly at the desk for her key.

The clerk shrugs. He doesn't like this tough broad. He turns

and calls back into his office.

Roy, 10, comes reluctantly out to Lilly, sniffling and

rubbing his arm.

He tries not to cry, and shows her a space between his teeth.

Roy's frustrated, unhappy, having nowhere else to turn.

Lilly won't take him seriously, but she relents enough to

stop teasing him, and to pat his head, ignoring how he

flinches away.

Lilly gives him a jaundiced look, walks Roy to the stairs and

up. The clerk, scornful but sexually interested, watches her

go.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

ECU, Roy in a hospital bed, with more color in his face,

breathing more normally. He begins to react to the sound of

people speaking.

Roy's eyes open, he looks toward the voices.

WIDE SHOT, Lilly and Myra facing one another across the foot

of Roy's bed, in a two-bed hospital room. (The OLD MAN in the

other bed sleeps through the scene.) Neither woman is yet

aware that Roy's awake. Lilly looks Myra up and down, with

obvious contempt.

Myra moves one pace to the side, studying Lilly's face.

The women, startled, both move toward Roy, one on each side

of the bed.

THREE SHOT, Myra and Lilly both leaning over to look down at

Roy's sleepy face.

Myra's willing to fight with Lilly, but Roy's attitude toward

his mother makes her uncomfortable.

Roy turns his head, gives Lilly an ironic smile. Lilly waits,

holding herself in.

She nods, accepting that, but then responds.

Roy gives her a cold smile, then turns to Myra for the ironic

explanation.

Lilly has nothing but contempt for Myra. To be humiliated in

front of Myra -- and by her son -- is the worst thing that

could happen to her. She makes as dignified an exit as she

can.

Lilly exits. Myra looks after her, curious.

Roy will not talk about this, with anyone. His response is

cold, closing the subject.

They smile flirtatiously at one another, both with their

minds on other things.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Very messy, small. Myra showers. She finishes, emerges, wraps

herself in a towel, opens the crowded messy medicine cabinet,

removes cosmetics and other items, starts to tweeze her

eyebrows. Doorbell RINGS. She looks irritated, ignores it.

Long doorbell RING. Exasperated, she slaps the tweezers down,

exits.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Another furnished apartment, this one with Myra's clothing

and dishes and glasses and other junk all over it.

She crosses to the door, pulls it open. The APARTMENT MANAGER

enters; a sullen, nervous, heavyset man.

Myra forces herself to be more pleasant.

In gesturing, Myra "accidentally" loses the towel, then wraps

it around herself again as the manager stares nervously away.

She smiles, knowing she's got him.

She strokes his arm, smiling. He flees. She smiles till he's

gone, then looks worried, leans her head against the door.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Roy, very comfortable in pajamas and robe, sits in a

wheelchair beside the bed, with magazines lying handy on the

bed. Myra, irritable, paces beside him.

This is so absurd, Roy doesn't know how to respond.

Lilly enters, smiling in self-confidence. A large ugly burn

is on the back of her right hand.

Lilly gives her a mock-admiring look.

Myra's not quite up to direct confrontation with Lilly. She

glowers at Roy instead.

Myra stalks out. Acting as though Myra hadn't existed, Lilly

puts her bag on the bed, takes mail from it.

This reference alerts and worries Roy, which he tries to

hide.

She considers him. His expression is jaunty, daring her. She

gives him a somber answer.

He's afraid she's right. He covers the doubt with a display

of self-assurance.

She holds up her burned hand, showing it to him.

He isn't sure he does; but what choice does he have?

He would speak protest, deny, explain, but she cuts him off.

EXT. DELMAR DAY

AN ANGLE on the exit doors toward the parking lot. Lilly

comes out, self-absorbed, then sees something ahead of her,

falters briefly, keeps walking, tries a very shaky smile.

REVERSE ANGLE, as Lilly approaches her car. BOBO JUSTUS, 50,

a blunt hoodlum in a good suit and a civilized veneer, stands

leaning against the car, arms folded, squinting behind

sunglasses.

Lilly's scared, startled, but trying to figure out how to

play this.

Bobo gets into the passenger seat, while Lilly nods

convulsive agreement and hurries around to get behind the

wheel. The car jolts forward, then smooths, and heads for the

gate.

INT. CHRYSLER - DAY

Driving along the highway. Lilly concentrates on traffic.

Bobo heavily watches her profile, finally speaks.

Lilly's eyes briefly close, her shoulders sag. Then she goes

back to the silent alert person she'd been. Bobo nods.

Bobo taps a fingertip against the side of her head to shut

her up. She shuts up.

It's time for Lilly to show tough, and she knows it.

Bobo thinks this over.

Lilly drops back to her final position; fatalism.

Lilly drives, holding herself together.

EXT. HOTEL DURANDO - DAY

A tall expensive hotel on the coast north of San Diego.

CAMERA PANS with the Chrysler pulling in and stopping at the

entrance, then PANS UP the balconied facade.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAY

Living room of a high-floor suite. CAMERA FACES across the

room to the balcony and the view of the ocean. Entrance door

to one side. A supermarket shopping bag is on the coffee

table. Two THUGS sit on the sofa, watching TV.

The door opens and Lilly enters, followed by Bobo. The thugs

immediately rise and switch off the TV.

The thugs leave the room as Lilly crosses to stand between US

and the view, followed by Bobo, neither looking out. Lilly

turns to Bobo, who abruptly punches her hard in the stomach.

She falls to the floor.

ANOTHER ANGLE as Bobo steps across her and goes over to close

the drapes over the view. Lilly sits up, watching him,

waiting obediently. Bobo looks at her.

She gets up, hurting, and hurries to the bathroom. Bobo sits

on the sofa, crosses his ankles on the coffee table next to

the supermarket bag. He takes out and lights a cigar. Lilly

comes back with a large white bath towel.

He kicks over the supermarket bag. Oranges roll on the floor.

Lilly's very scared. She drops to her knees, spreads the

towel, crawls around gathering oranges while she talks.

Lilly pauses, bent over, tightly holding an orange.

He gets to his feet, leaving his cigar in an ashtray.

Fumbling slightly, she folds the towel edges together to make

a bag, then stands, brings the towel to Bobo. He makes a

production out of getting his grip on the edges just right.

She stands as limp as she can, just wanting to get through

this. He looks at her without expression, rears back with the

towel, swings it forward, lets it drop open. Oranges roll on

the floor. Lilly stares, wide-eyed, recognizing reprieve.

Bobo tosses the towel behind him onto the sofa, then gestures

contemptuously for her to pick up the oranges again.

TWO SHOT, closer, as Lilly turns, bending toward the oranges,

and Bobo picks up his cigar, then lifts a foot and kicks her

flatfooted, hard, in the back. She sprawls on the floor. He

follows and drops to his knees on her back.

AN ANGLE close on Lilly on the floor, Bobo's knees grinding

back and forth into her back.

AN ANGLE on Bobo, grimacing as he bears down, pressing his

weight onto her back. He leans forward, left hand bracing

himself on the floor beside her head as he reaches down with

the cigar held in his right hand and presses the ember

against the back of her splayed-out right hand.

ECU, Lilly, clenching her teeth, tears squeezing from her

eyes, simply bearing it.

AN ANGLE on Bobo, catching a bad smell, looking back down

behind himself at Lilly's body. This is the result he wanted,

but it disgusts him. He straightens up, still kneeling on

her, puts the cigar in his mouth, doesn't like its taste,

removes it, braces his left hand against her back while he

lifts off her, getting back up onto his feet.

WIDE SHOT, Bobo stepping over her, expression repulsed.

He puts the cigar back in the ashtray as she rises, cradling

her burnt hand. Not looking toward Bobo, hobbling with knees

together, she starts from the room.

She leaves. He opens the drapes, then picks up an orange from

the floor and steps out onto the balcony.

EXT. BALCONY - DAY

Bobo stands looking out at the ocean. He enjoys breathing the

sea air. He slowly peels the orange, dropping pieces of peel

over the side.

Lilly appears in the doorway, wearing a too-large man's

raincoat. Bobo doesn't seem to notice her at first, then nods

to her.

Lilly chances taking a step out onto the balcony. It's vital

that she encourage this forgive-and-forget dialogue.

Bobo's being jolly now. Lilly's scared, but has to be jolly,

too.

Bobo's joshing now. He raises a humorous eyebrow.

Lilly leaves the balcony. Bobo eats more orange, looking out

at the ocean. His expression is stern but calm.

INT. CHRYSLER - DAY

Lilly drives along the highway, weeping, shaking, teeth

chattering. Her hands are both high on the wheel, the back of

the right hand developing a large red burn.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Roy's appalled and embarrassed and ashamed by this story; the

surface result is, he's mad at Lilly.

Roy in his agitation wheels himself back and forth in the

wheelchair, bumping into things.

He closes down, sullen, not caring if she believes him or

not.

He stares at her, hurt and angry. She stares back,

unflinching. Angrily, he spins the wheelchair around, his

back to her.

Now she's hurt. She shrugs, speaks indifferently to his back.

She hesitates, then stalks out, shutting the door.

Hearing the door close, Roy spins around in the wheelchair to

face where she'd been. He starts to get up, pauses midway.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY

Angry, Lilly takes a step away from the closed door, then

stops, looks uncertainly back.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Roy, on his feet now, stands still, indecisive.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY

Lilly shakes her head, turns firmly away, marches down the

corridor.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Roy makes an angry gesture, drops back into the wheelchair,

spins it around and wheels over to the phone. Quick and

angry, he makes a call. SOUND of ring; SOUND of click.

SOUND of answering machine beep.

Roy hangs up, sits in the wheelchair looking determined.

INT. MADERO LOBBY - DAY

Simms talks with a MAID.

Roy comes out of the elevator, crossing toward Simms.

Simms hands Roy a stack of mail.

Roy's touched and embarrassed by this reaction.

Roy crosses back to the elevator, enters it. Elevator door

closes. Simms looks after him, avuncular.

EXT. SARBER & WEBB - DAY

A long low stucco building in an industrial section of Los

Angeles. The company name is on the glass of the main door.

KAGGS, a humorless hotshot of 28, dressed in short-sleeved

white shirt and narrow dark tie, prowls the cracked sidewalk

in front of the place, MAKING REMARKS into a small cassette

recorder. Roy's Honda arrives and drives into the company lot

at the end of the building. Kaggs watches, then goes on

patrolling and TALKING into the recorder. Roy comes out to

the sidewalk and heads for the entrance. Kaggs stops and

watches him approach.

Roy continues on and enters the building.

INT. SARBER & WEBB - DAY

A low rail separates the visitors from an area of desks with

CLERKS typing or adding up figures or TALKING on the phone.

Beyond them are floor-to-ceiling bins and shelves with narrow

aisles between, in which more CLERKS move busily, filling

orders or doing inventory. A great sense of activity and

hubbub. Roy enters, looks around in surprise. A clerk at a

front desk sees him, stands happily.

Other clerks, aware of Roy, come over with AD LIB GREETINGS.

The clerks all hurry back to their desks as Kaggs enters. He

crosses to Roy, hand stuck out.

Kaggs moves toward the gate in the rail, still holding Roy's

hand, to move him along. Roy stands still, which yanks Kaggs

back. Kaggs frowns at him, releases his hand.

Kaggs leads the way through the rail.

INT. KAGGS' OFFICE - DAY

Small, crowded, efficient, with interior windows showing the

aisles of bins. Kaggs leads Roy in, shuts the door, gestures

at the second chair as he goes behind the desk.

They both sit, Roy amused and observant.

Roy doesn't yet know he's being offered the job.

Now Roy gets it. He's startled, almost scared, thinks

automatically of escape.

Kaggs gets to his feet, terminating the meeting.

Kaggs sticks his hand out for another shake. Roy obliges.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Roy's place. Roy enters from the bedroom, carrying a

suitcase, which he drops on the sofa. He goes to one of the

box-framed clown pictures, takes it off the wall, puts it

face down on the coffee table, removes two wing nuts holding

the back, lifts off the back, and reveals stacks of money

hidden inside. He takes two wads of money out, counting them,

putting them on the coffee table, then fits the back in

place, reattaches the wing nuts, and hangs the picture on the

wall. Stuffing the wads of money into the suitcase, he

leaves.

EXT. UNION STATION - DAY

A cab pulls up to discharge passengers. Roy and the DRIVER

get out. Roy pays the driver, who opens the trunk to take out

several pieces of luggage. Myra leans hesitantly out, as

though afraid it's raining out there.

Myra comes out of the cab. She's feeling testy. Roy's in a

good mood and ignores her bad temper.

Myra and Roy burden themselves with the luggage.

They start for the station.

INT. TRAIN DAY

AN ANGLE from outside the passenger car through the window at

Myra, mulish, watching the scenery go by. Beyond her Roy's

easy, content. He moves to get up.

TWO SHOT, within the train. Myra looks questioningly at Roy

as he stands.

She's not ready to relent and enjoy herself.

He walks down the aisle behind Myra, who sighs and looks out

the window again.

INT. BAR CAR - DAY

Four young SOLDIERS sit at a table in a rudimentary bar car.

They're drinking bloody Marys out of plastic glasses and

having a good time together. In b.g., several customers are

clustered at the small service bar, waiting for drinks.

AN ANGLE on Roy, at the service bar, looking back past other

people at the soldiers. He gets his mixed drink, in a plastic

glass, and turns away.

AN ANGLE on the soldiers as Roy starts by. The train lurches,

and Roy falls heavily against their table, slopping their

drinks and spilling some of his own on the table.

Roy firmly places his own glass on their table.

He leaves, while the soldiers are still PROTESTING.

INT. TRAIN - DAY

Myra applies makeup, watching herself in her compact mirror.

She becomes aware of eyes, and looks around.

TWO SHOT, Myra and a BUSINESSMAN, sitting across the way,

grinning at her. Myra registers him.

CU, Myra, considering the possibilities. Then she shrugs,

shakes her head at the businessman almost reluctantly, and

goes back to applying makeup.

INT. BAR CAR - DAY

Roy now sits with the soldiers, eagerly listening to them

talk. There are plastic glasses enough on the table for three

rounds of drinks.

They all laugh, Roy laughing with them.

They watch as he bends, picks up one die from the floor,

holds it where they can all see it, his manner open,

guileless.

INT. TRAIN - DAY

Myra walks down the aisle, demurely looking at no one.

INT. BAR CAR - DAY

Roy's getting to his feet, the soldiers protesting.

He hands the die to Soldier 2.

The soldiers are confused but agreeable, seeing this as some

kind of fun.

He tosses the die on the table.

Roy picks up the die.

AN ANGLE close on Roy, his eyes glittering, his fist with the

die shaking beside his head.

WIDE SHOT. Roy throws. They all look at the die. Roy spreads

his hands; the good sport.

INT. TRAIN - DAY

Myra reaches the end of one car, starts through.

INT. BAR CAR - DAY

AN ANGLE on Myra about to enter. She stops, looking through

the glass in the door.

Myra's POV: Roy and the soldiers rolling the die for money.

ECU, Myra, absorbed, watching.

Myra's POV: MOS through the glass. ECU, Roy's hand with the

die. ECU, Roy's profile, his smile, his innocent distress

when he wins. ECU, Roy's hand scoops money.

ECU, Myra, smiling, pleased.

INT. DINER - NIGHT

A brightly lit Hopperish place. Lilly sits alone in a booth

eating a bowl of chili and reading a newspaper folded beside

the bowl. A DRUNK with a great deal of faith in his own charm

sits with a male FRIEND at the counter, drinking coffee. The

drunk keeps looking toward Lilly, grinning, COMMENTING

playfully to his friend, who's bored by it all. Lilly doesn't

seem to be aware of him.

The drunk rises from his stool, turning toward Lilly,

staggering slightly. His friend makes a small move to stop

him, then shrugs and lets him go. The drunk makes his way to

Lilly's table, leans on it.

Lilly gives him a flat look.

She looks past him toward the WAITRESS behind the counter.

Lilly looks over at the drunk's friend, who pointedly ignores

the situation.

The drunk could turn mean; his gesture brushing away the idea

of his friend is stronger than necessary.

The waitress arrives, with the coffee pot and a mug. She puts

the mug on the table, pours coffee.

The drunk wants to sit beside Lilly, who looks to the

waitress to solve the problem, but the waitress stands there

with the coffee pot, looking helpless. The drunk bends to

slide onto the seat. Lilly, exasperated, rabbit punches him

in the throat.

The drunk, astounded and in pain (and not breathing),

staggers back, flailing, hitting the waitress's arm so that

she slops coffee on him as his feet tangle and he falls

heavily onto the floor.

Lilly, suddenly concerned, slides out of the booth.

She goes to one knee beside the drunk, who clutches his own

throat with both hands, retching as he tries to inhale. Lilly

looks up at the astonished waitress.

The drunk's friend arrives and helps Lilly get the drunk to

his feet. The drunk is breathing now, but shaken. He looks at

Lilly with reproachful eyes. His friend transfers his

annoyance at the drunk to Lilly.

The drunk and his friend head for the exit, as Lilly turns to

the waitress.

The waitress is apologetic, and also in awe of Lilly.

Lilly sits down as the waitress goes back behind the counter.

AN ANGLE on the waitress, as she puts down the coffee pot,

brings out the pecan pie, prepares to slice it, pauses, looks

with wonder toward Lilly.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The setting is a wide porch or lanai pretending to be a 19th

century locale; a mix of western and antebellum south; the

usual tourist confusion of histories. The effect is both

romantic and false. Roy and Myra linger over wine, near the

end of their meal. Roy's relaxed, happy, expansive. Myra's

pleased but watchful, the bird watching the worm.

She mimes rolling the die, slowly, showing how it will roll

out of her hand just so, then speaks to him as though to a

bright child.

Roy leans back, studying her, thinking it over, makes up his

mind.

EXT. DESERTED DOWNTOWN - DAY

New skyscrapers are separated by blank fields or small older

buildings. Almost no traffic. A white limo drives alone down

the street.

INT. LIMO - DAY

Myra, dressed expensively and fashionably, sits with

GLOUCESTER HEBBING, a stocky businessman, sixtyish. Their

manner suggests intimacy.

EXT. NEW BUILDING - DAY

Glossy, but no people around. The limo stops, the mustached

CHAUFFEUR hops out and holds the door as Myra and Hebbing

emerge and cross to enter the building, Myra carrying an

attache case.

INT. LIMO - DAY

The chauffeur gets back behind the wheel, adjusts the

interior mirror so he can see himself, peels off his

moustache, scratches his upper lip, refits the moustache more

to his liking.

INT. ATRIUM - DAY

This building has a central atrium with corridors circling

it, waist-high walls on the atrium side, glass-walled

elevators rising up through the atrium. Myra and Hebbing are

visible in an elevator coming up to a high floor. It stops

and they exit, moving down the corridor.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

ECU, translucent glass in door with company name: COE, STARK,

FELLOWES & ASSOCIATES, STOCK BROKERAGE - London - New York -

Dallas - Los Angeles - Tokyo. CAMERA PANS to follow Myra and

Hebbing as they enter the office.

AN ANGLE showing the well-furnished outer office, the

attractive and competent RECEPTIONIST welcoming Myra as

someone she knows, gesturing her through, Myra graciously

accepting, moving on. Hebbing's impressed by everything,

trying not to show it.

AN ANGLE in a clerical office, four CLERKS at well-equipped

desks with computer terminals, hard at work.

Maps and clocks on the walls indicate the world. Myra and

Hebbing pass through.

AN ANGLE in the PRIVATE SECRETARY'S office, she on the phone,

nodding and smiling at Myra and waving her through. Myra

leads the way, opening a door marked HENRY FELLOWES, Partner.

INT. COLE'S OFFICE - DAY

Myra and Hebbing enter an office decorated with sleekly

understated opulence; the view through large windows is of

apparently-prosperous skyscrapers. Cole, a plausible rich

businessman, happily greets Myra.

He lifts a dubious eyebrow toward Hebbing.

As Mary Beth, Myra has a faint southern-belle accent and a

clinging flirtatiousness.

The men shake hands, Hebbing open and pleased and dignified,

Cole clearly holding something back.

While Hebbing looks manly and flustered and pleased, Cole

brings from under his desk a partially full gray canvas sack

marked Federal Reserve Bank.

Myra opens her attache case on the desk. Cole takes banded

stacks of bills from the sack, packs them neatly in the case.

Hebbing tries not to look envious and impressed.

HEBBING'S POV: The top bill in each stack is a hundred.

PREVIOUS SHOT. Myra takes a stack, riffles it for Hebbing's

benefit.

Myra returns the stack to the case, talks to Cole.

She gestures vaguely, unable to describe the situation

accurately. Hebbing fills in, bluff and hearty.

Cole broods, studying Hebbing, deciding at last to trust him.

Describing the scheme, Cole becomes increasingly

enthusiastic.

Hebbing sits on the sofa, Myra beside him, holding his arm in

both of hers. Cole paces, describing.

Hebbing doesn't want to admit ignorance.

Cole crosses to an inner door, pushes it partway open, looks

back grinning with his hand on the knob.

INT. BARE ROOM - DAY

A bare dusty room. A ladder leans against a wall, a paint can

on the floor beside it. Only Cole is visible in the open

doorway. He speaks back into the main office.

INT. COLE'S OFFICE - DAY

Cole remains in the doorway, luring Hebbing with a smile.

Cole's pushing this too far. Hebbing's thinking politeness

requires him to look. Myra's nervous, her smile with an edge

to it.

INT. BARE ROOM - DAY

Cole smiles at the empty room again, looks back.

He shuts the door.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Roy and Myra at the table.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Myra puts a blood-filled four-inch-square plastic package

into her bra on the left side, then puts on a white blouse.

EXT. NEW BUILDING - DAY

Myra and Hebbing hurry across the sidewalk from the limo,

each carrying an attache case.

INT. COLE'S OFFICE - DAY

Myra and Hebbing enter, Cole meets them, all happy.

Cole brings out the canvas sack from under the desk, reaches

in, brings out a stack of bills. The door opens and two men

in suits and topcoats and hats enter, one of them flashing a

badge. (These are, altered, two of the clerks from before.)

Cole suddenly loses all control, becomes a gibbering wreck.

The second man approaches Hebbing, pencil and notebook at the

ready, manner cold and tough.

Cole pulls a pistol from his desk drawer.

Cole ignores him, staring in frantic hatred at Myra.

Cole shoots her, the SOUND very loud, the men flinching away.

Myra slaps her hand to her breast; blood spurts between her

fingers. In terror, she turns toward Hebbing, who stares at

the blood seeping down her white blouse. She tries to speak,

can't. She reaches out, her bloody hand sliding down

Hebbing's front without getting any purchase, leaving a swath

of blood diagonally across his jacket, shirt and tie. She

topples forward. Hebbing tries to hold her, but she slips to

the floor.

Cole runs around the desk toward the door, waving the gun.

The men warily move away from the door.

Cole runs from the room. The two men pull guns from hip

holsters under their coat-tails. Hebbing, kneeling beside

Myra, watches them approach the door, crouch, run through.

Hebbing rises, looks around, runs to the inner door, finds it

locked. He crosses to the main door, looks out, cautiously

creeps from the room.

Myra sits up.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Hebbing hurries through the empty secretary's office and out

the other door. The two men enter from a different door and

cross to re-enter Cole's office.

INT. ATRIUM - DAY

Cole stands behind a pillar, watching. Across the way,

Hebbing comes out of the office, staring around, trying to

wipe the blood from his clothes. In obvious panic, he runs to

the elevator, presses the button.

AN ANGLE through the glass wall into the elevator as it

stops. The doors open, Hebbing hurries in, frantically jabs

the button. The elevator descends. CAMERA PANS to Cole coming

around the corridor, entering the office.

INT. COLE'S OFFICE - DAY

General hilarity. The secretary, two men, other two clerks,

chauffeur and receptionist are all present, opening

champagne, Hebbing's money now out of the sack and spread on

the desk. Myra, stripped to the waist (unconcerned about the

others present) cleans blood from her breasts with damp

towels. He and Myra look at one another across the room,

broadly smile.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Myra's very up, from reliving this story.

Myra turns her face away.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Expensive room. Cole, naked, expression haunted and crazed,

sits cross-legged on the bed. Myra enters, happy, carrying

dress shop boxes. She stops, shocked, when she sees Cole.

He stares at the floor over the edge of the bed, like a

shipwreck victim in a raft looking at the sea.

Myra drops the packages on a chair.

She approaches him, scared but needing him.

She touches him. He suddenly lashes out, knocking her

backward, glaring at her.

Distracted, gone, unaware of her existence, he gazes around,

hugs himself, sits staring at demons. She watches him,

mournful, knowing he's gone.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Myra looks back at Roy. Her expression makes it clear she

isn't going to tell him any more than she already has.

Roy laughs, genuinely pleased by her and also tacitly letting

his questions drop.

Roy doesn't like this; he's feeling pressured. Myra sees it,

but believes she's got him anyway, so she can let up. She

pats his hand.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

A little drunk and happy, Roy and Myra come down the corridor

together, then make it obvious they're going into separate

rooms, across the corridor from one another.

Roy complains, but half-heartedly, half humorously; this

argument has already taken place.

They unlock the opposing doors, look back at one another.

Myra's smile and good-night wave are consciously cute. Roy's

response is a little forced. They go into their rooms.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Once he's alone, Roy stops trying to look like a good sport.

Disgusted, he tosses the room key onto the dresser, then

crosses to sliding glass doors closed in front of a balcony.

He's about to close the drapes when he looks out, changes his

mind, unlocks and opens the door. He steps outside.

EXT. BALCONY - NIGHT

A high floor, with a wide view of ocean and starry sky. Roy

leans on the rail, looking out, thinking. He mutters to

himself.

He continues to stand there, taking some solace from the

night. BEAT. Phone RINGS. Confused, irritated, he turns to

look into the room. Phone RINGS. At last, he goes back into

the room.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Roy crosses to pick up the phone, grumpy and suspicious.

Roy hangs up and crosses to the door.

AN ANGLE directly at the door as Roy opens it, showing Myra's

door open across the way, Myra standing in her doorway naked.

She waves at him to move over.

Roy steps back, holding his door open.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

AN ANGLE down the hall as Myra skips across from her room to

Roy's, her door slamming behind her.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Myra runs in, giggling. Roy shuts the door, laughing at her.

Roy's pleased, but at a loss.

They embrace.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

A clean anonymous Holiday Inn. Lilly, dressed for the track,

sits at the round table under the swag light, sorting through

her business purse. There's a folded newspaper on the table.

KNOCK on the door. She's startled. For just a second, she's

like a trapped animal. Then she's calm again. She turns the

purse around, opens another zipper section, removes a pistol

and a silencer, quickly screws the silencer onto the pistol,

lays the pistol on the table and covers it with the

newspaper. Then she crosses to open the door.

AN ANGLE to include Roy in the doorway, grinning, easy.

Lilly's surprised, pleased, but wary.

Lilly makes a face, but no comment, at Myra's name, as she

closes the door.

He takes from his pockets the wads of money held removed from

the clown pictures, extends them toward her.

Since she won't take the money, he turns to put it on the

table beside her purse, pushing the newspaper out of the way,

revealing the gun. He gives it a surprised smile.

She crosses to unscrew the silencer and put both pieces back

in her purse. Roy, watching, points at the still angry burn

on her hand.

Disdainful and hurt, she pushes at the wads of money.

His own hostility shows through.

She's not used to being vulnerable, can neither hide it nor

really express it; can't use it as a tactic.

Roy finds this parting unsatisfactory, but has nothing to

add. With a shrug, he leaves. Lilly looks after him, her

expression becoming resentful, dully angry.

EXT. HOLIDAY INN - DAY

Myra sits in the back seat of a taxi parked across the street

from the motel. The door to Lilly's room is visible in b.g.

Roy walks toward the street from Lilly's room.

Reaching the sidewalk, Roy turns to an empty cab parked on

that side of the street, in front of the motel. Myra's driver

shifts into gear.

Roy enters the other cab, which drives away, as Lilly comes

out of her room in b.g.

Lilly gets into her Chrysler, backs away from the slot,

drives to the street.

AN ANGLE on the two vehicles, as they leave the motel.

EXT. DELMAR - DAY

Where the surf meets the turf. Over the punters' heads, out

beyond the track, spreads the Pacific Ocean, unnoticed,

ignored. In every shot in this sequence, the ocean is visible

but not looked at.

AN ANGLE on Lilly, with her heavy shoulderbag, moving along

empty tables, here and there picking up used tickets.

AN ANGLE on Myra, on a different level, watching Lilly.

AN ANGLE on Lilly at the betting windows.

AN ANGLE on Myra, on a high vantage point in the stands. A

MAN near her watches the field through binoculars. Myra ASKS

if she can borrow them for a minute. Men are always happy to

do Myra favors; the man gives her the binoculars. She looks

at the field briefly, then turns and looks through the

binoculars the other way, outside the track. The man,

surprised, looks the same way.

MAN'S POV: The parking area.

PREVIOUS SHOT. The man looks in curiosity at Myra, who

concentrates, adjusting the focus.

MYRA'S POV: Foreshortened through the binoculars, Lilly opens

the Chrysler's trunk, stashes money.

PREVIOUS SHOT. Myra smiles, turns it into a sweet thank-you

smile as she returns the binoculars to their owner.

EXT. HOTEL POOL - DAY

Roy dives into the pool, swims underwater to the ladder,

climbs out near a YOUNG BLONDE on a chaise longue, who's been

admiring him.

Roy looks up.

AN ANGLE to show Myra waving from her balcony, four flights

up.

PREVIOUS SHOT. Roy's at first surprised, then amused by the

blonde.

He gathers up his towel and heads for the building.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Roy stands in heavy spray in the shower, half asleep, gently

touching his stomach where the bruise used to be. KNOCK on

door. He ignores it.

He rouses himself.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Myra moves away from the bathroom door. She's in a bad mood.

She paces back and forth, out onto the balcony, then back

into the room as Roy comes out of the bathroom wearing a

towel.

She considers him.

Myra makes a visible effort to be accommodating.

INT. KAGGS' OFFICE - DAY

Kaggs sits at his computer terminal, bringing up data, not

pleased by what he sees. Buzzer SOUNDS. He swivels to the

desk, presses the intercom button.

With a now-we're-getting-somewhere manner, Kaggs turns back

to the VDT, punches up a different set of data, sits looking

at it in gloomy satisfaction. Roy enters, and Kaggs rises,

extending his hand across the desk. They shake hands.

They shake hands.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Roy's room. He has one of the clown pictures face down on the

coffee table. He takes money from his jacket pockets, crams

it into the space, which is now just about full. As he's

tightening the wing nuts closing the back, doorbell RINGS. He

hurries, finishing the job, hanging the picture on the wall,

then crossing to open the door. Myra enters, ebullient.

She gives him an enthusiastic kiss, then marches into the

living room.

Myra's need breaks through her good sense.

Roy tries to treat this lightly.

She stares at him, trying to find a chink in the armor,

trying to find a reason, trying to find something.

He frowns at her, not believing he understands her right.

He takes a step toward her, rising toward fury.

He slaps her openhanded but hard, and she staggers back. He

pursues her.

He slaps her as hard with the other hand. Astonished,

frightened, befuddled, she backpedals, bringing her forearms

up to protect her face. He grabs her two wrists in one hand,

holds them out of the way, slaps her forehand and backhand,

forehand and backhand.

He suddenly gets control of himself, releases her, steps back

into the middle of the room. He's angry, but also remorseful,

sorry he lost control but still enraged at the enormity of

her suggestion.

She cowers against the wall, peering in terror at him through

her raised arms. He settles down, becomes heavily calm.

He crosses to the apartment door, pulls it open. Sunlight

pours in.

She lowers her arms slowly, as though her whole body aches.

She's still scared, but angry now, too. She'd like to tell

him off, but discretion tells her not to. She moves across

the room toward the open door, but stops, not wanting to be

that close to him.

Understanding, he backs away from the doorway, gestures with

cold irony for her to proceed. She moves to the threshold,

looks back at him.

Angry again, Roy steps forward. She hastily steps outside,

and he slams the door.

EXT. ROY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Myra moves slowly along the balcony, muttering to herself.

She stops, holding the balcony rail, looking out at the city.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Lilly's room; empty. Phone RINGS. Lilly enters, tired, with

her shoulderbag; the end of her work day. Phone RINGS. She

frowns at it, expecting nothing good, then drops the

shoulderbag on the bed, crosses, answers.

A sudden smile doesn't entirely hide the wariness.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Roy, troubled, paces while talking on the phone.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Lilly's delighted, but can't trust this moment more than any

other.

TNT. LIVING ROOM DAY

He hangs up, but he's nervous, still uncertain, pacing.

The sound of the question makes him laugh.

EXT. MOTEL - DAY

Myra's Cadillac eases to a stop across the street, where she

earlier waited in the cab.

AN ANGLE through the windshield at Myra, settling down to

wait, looking at the motel.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Lilly comes out of the bathroom, putting her lipstick away in

a small purse. She's dressed carefully for tonight; upscale

and respectable, without being stodgy. She crosses to the

window -- night view outside -- and as she pulls the drapes

shut the phone RINGS. She looks at it in disappointment,

crosses to answer.

INT. OFFICE - NIGHT

Irv the accountant's office in Baltimore. He looks secretive

and scared, talks in a hush.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Empty. The phone receiver dangles off the table on its cord.

The door finishes closing.

EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT

Lilly's Chrysler jounces out to the street, moving too fast,

making the turn, racing away. CAMERA PANS to Myra's Cadillac,

pulling away from the curb, following. CAMERA HOLDS with the

two cars receding in b.g.

INT. HONDA - NIGHT

Roy drives down a San Diego street, is stopped by a red

light, looks at his watch. He's late.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Empty; as before. The door opens and the two thugs we saw

earlier with Bobo enter, one putting a thick ring of keys

away in his jacket pocket. They close the door, look around

the room. One goes to the closet, opens it, looks at the

clothing inside, while the other goes into the bathroom. The

first crosses to the dresser, pulls open a drawer full of

clothing. The second comes out of the bathroom. They look at

one another. The guy from the bathroom shakes his head. The

other one points at the dangling phone, speaks.

They leave the room.

EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT

Roy walks toward Lilly's room as the two thugs pass him, on

their way out. Roy knocks on Lilly's door, waits, knocks

again.

He tries to look through a crack in the drapes into the room,

then turns to look at the empty place where Lilly's Chrysler

had been. He shakes his head, knocks once more, looks at his

watch, turns away.

He walks off.

EXT. ARIZONA MOTEL - NIGHT

Lilly's white Chrysler pulls off the road into the front

parking area of a new small motel. The car brakes to a stop.

AN ANGLE from the road as Myra's blue Cadillac drives slowly

by, while, in b.g., Lilly gets out of the Chrysler, moving as

though she's stiff and tired. Lilly enters the motel office.

INT. MOTEL OFFICE - NIGHT

The CLERK, an elderly woman, turns away from a small TV set

when Lilly enters.

The clerk extends a registration card and pen to Lilly, who

takes them but doesn't yet start to write.

The clerk turns to consider the key rack.

She starts to fill in the registration card.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

Motel in b.g. The blue Cadillac, having turned around and

come back, pulls off onto the shoulder of the road about

fifty yards short of the motel.

INT. CADILLAC - NIGHT

Over Myra's shoulder as she watches, through the windshield,

the Chrysler parked in front of the motel. Lilly comes out of

the office over there, gets into the Chrysler, backs it up,

drives it out of sight past the motel. Myra puts the Cadillac

in gear.

INT. ROOM 131 - NIGHT

A clean anonymous motel room, with two beds. Lilly enters,

very weary, puts her shoulderbag on one of the beds, goes

back outside and leaves the door open. She has backed the

Chrysler into its spot just outside her room, so its trunk is

visible through the open doorway.

EXT. ARIZONA MOTEL - NIGHT

AN ANGLE on Lilly as she opens the rear door of the Chrysler

and leans in.

INT. CHRYSLER - MIGHT

Lilly wrestles the rear seat out of position, reaches down

into the space under and behind it, and brings out a soft

cloth overnight bag. It seems not too full but fairly heavy.

She puts the bag on the ground outside the car and then

pushes and prods the seat back into position.

EXT. ARIZONA MOTEL - NIGHT

Lilly shuts the car door, picks up the bag, and enters her

room, shutting the door behind her.

INT. MOTEL OFFICE - NIGHT

Myra enters. The clerk looks at her in surprise.

INT. ROOM 231 - NIGHT

Lilly puts the bag on the bed with her shoulderbag. She opens

the overnight bag, takes from it a blond wig, a pair of horn

rim glasses and a passport. From her shoulderbag she takes

the pistol and silencer. She attaches the silencer to the

pistol and puts the pistol under the pillow of the other bed.

INT. MOTEL OFFICE - NIGHT

Myra's checking in. She fills in the registration card while

the clerk considers her key rack.

The clerk sighs, looks at the key she'd taken from the rack,

reluctantly goes back to consider the situation again.

INT. ROOM 131 - NIGHT

Lilly, in nightgown, yawning, comes out of the bathroom,

switching off its light. The shoulderbag and overnight bag

and overnight bag's contents are still on one bed. Lilly gets

into the other, switches off the light.

INT. ROOM 119 - NIGHT

Virtually identical to Room 131. Myra enters, lugging a

suitcase, and shuts the door behind herself. She puts the

suitcase on one of the beds, opens it, paws through it, and

brings out slippers, nightgown and robe. Briskly, she strips

and puts on the nightgown, the slippers and the robe.

Back into the suitcase, she brings out a small snubnose

pistol which she puts in the pocket of her robe. Next out of

the suitcase is a large ring of keys.

Sitting on the other bed, she compares her room key with keys

on the ring, takes three keys from the ring, and puts them in

her robe pocket along with the room key.

Getting to her feet, she crosses to the dresser, picks up the

ice bucket, and leaves the room, closing the door behind

herself.

EXT. ROOM 131 - NIGHT

CU, the door, with its number. CAMERA PANS to pick up Myra,

approaching. She stops at room 132, looks at the Chrysler,

smiles at it in proprietary fashion, and pats the Chrysler on

the trunk.

Then she turns to the room. She takes the keys from her

pocket, looks around to be sure she's alone, and bends over

the lock.

INT. ROOM 131 - NIGHT

In very dim light, Myra enters the room, closes the door,

moves toward the beds. CAMERA PANS with her. Keeping her eyes

on the sleeping form of Lilly, she puts the empty ice bucket

on the empty bed, then moves closer to Lilly. CAMERA PANS in,

moving forward as Myra's arms move forward, moving to CU on

Lilly as Myra's hands (remaining IN FRAME) move forward and

down. Her hands abruptly clamp on Lilly's throat. QUICK CUT.

EXT. PHOENIX AIRPORT - DAY

ESTABLISHING SHOT. A plane lands.

INT. PHOENIX AIRPORT - DAY

Roy, looking stunned, is among the deplaning passengers

spreading out across the terminal. He's met by PIERSON, a

plainclothes detective, and a uniformed COP.

INT. POLICE CAR - DAY

The uniformed cop drives. Pierson and Roy sit in back.

The car stops.

INT. MORGUE VIEWING ROOM - DAY

A bare bright room with tiled walls, a few plastic chairs, an

ordinary office door on one side and wide hospital swinging

doors on the other. Pierson and Roy stand watching.

The swinging doors open and an ATTENDANT wheels in a gurney

containing a body covered by a sheet. Roy braces himself. The

attendant pulls the sheet away from the face.

The attendant removes the sheet. The body wears a nightgown.

AN ANGLE on Roy, swallowing bile, as he forces himself to

move forward and look down at the face. He immediately looks

away again.

He forces himself to look at the body again, his own face

full of the unanswerable question. He looks her up and down,

then his eyes stop. He focuses on something, a look of

surprise coming into his eyes.

Roy's POV: CU, the body's hands, crossed over the stomach,

the wrists crossed, the palms down, the clear backs of both

hands visible.

CU, Roy. He knows. Sharpness comes back into his expression.

TWO SHOT, Roy and Pierson. Pierson wants to leave, but Roy

stands over the gurney. He chuckles. Pierson looks at him,

surprised and appalled. Roy ignores him.

QUICK CUT.

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - DAY

MONTAGE. Myra's baby blue Cadillac drives, at extreme high

speed, alone on the highway.

EXT. MADERO APARTMENTS - NIGHT

Myra's Cadillac drives slowly past, comes to a stop at the

curb half a block away.

INT. CADILLAC - NIGHT

AN ANGLE through the windshield at the driver, a woman,

deeply weary. Her forearms are crossed on top of the steering

wheel, her brow resting on the forearms. The burn on the back

of her right hand is visible in illumination from a nearby

streetlight. Traffic goes by. BEAT. Lilly lifts her head,

looking out at the night. She's very tired, but determined.

AN ANGLE beside Lilly, inside the car. From the seat beside

her she picks up Myra's large dangly earrings and fixes them

in place. Then she puts on Myra's big-lensed dark sunglasses.

(She's wearing the clothes Myra wore when checking into the

motel.) Lilly checks her appearance in the rearview mirror,

then gets out of the car.

INT. MADERO LOBBY - NIGHT

AN ANGLE on Simms at the desk, talking to a TELEPHONE

REPAIRMAN steadily at work fixing the switchboard.

Lilly enters in b.g., crosses to the elevator, presses the

button. Simms waves to her.

The elevator door opens, Lilly boards and presses the button.

The elevator door closes.

EXT. MADERO APARTMENTS BALCONY - NIGHT

The balcony leading to Roy's apartment. It's illuminated by a

light next to the public door from the interior hall.

AN ANGLE on that door as Lilly cautiously opens it, looks out

and around while remaining mostly behind the door, then

focuses on the light. She reaches out and unscrews the bulb.

GO TO BLACK.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Roy's place. Dark. SOUNDS of lock being picked. The door

opens, showing only blackness outside, Lilly enters and shuts

the door, then switches on the main light.

Ah ANGLE on Lilly, in the middle of the room, distractedly

biting her thumbnail as she looks around, calculating. She

looks directly at something.

Lilly's POV: One of the box-framed pictures hanging on the

wall.

PREVIOUS SHOT. Lilly, making up her mind, crosses to the

picture and takes it off the wall. She finds it surprisingly

heavy. She carries it to the coffee table, puts it down there

on its back, sits on the sofa.

AN ANGLE on Lilly studying the picture. She raps her knuckle

against the sides, looks to see if the front or sides open

someway, and finally turns the picture over, laying it face

down on the coffee table. She sees how to remove the back,

lifts it off, and looks at the stacks of money lying in

there.

CU, Lilly, almost fainting with relief.

WIDE SHOT. Lilly looks at the other picture, looks again at

the money, comes to a conclusion. She rises and leaves the

room, deeper into the apartment.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Lilly switches on the light as she enters the room. She looks

around, crosses to the closet, goes through the stuff in

there, finds an old attache case on the shelf. She brings it

out, puts it on the bed, opens it. Inside are a few decks of

cards and a paperback book. She tosses them onto the bed,

checks the case, finds that one of the clasps works but the

other doesn't. One is good enough. She carries the attache

case out of the room, leaving the light on.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Lilly enters, puts the case on the coffee table beside the

picture, scoops the money out of the picture and puts it in

the case. Then she unceremoniously dumps the picture on the

floor.

Lilly takes the second picture from the wall, puts it face

down on the coffee table, opens the back, transfers the money

to the case. She closes the case, attaches the one clasp that

works, picks up the case.

TWO SHOT, as Lilly whirls around, terrified and then

relieved. Roy stands in the open apartment doorway, blackness

behind him.

Roy enters the room and shuts the door.

He gestures at the sofa. Lilly's holding the attache case.

The gutted pictures are lying around, one on the coffee table

and one on the floor. She looks around at everything, awkward

and embarrassed. But Roy hasn't said anything. And he's

between her and the door.

She backs up, sits on the sofa, puts the case on her lap. Roy

pulls a chair over so it's directly between Lilly and the

door. He sits, looking at her with polite interest.

Remembered emotion makes Lilly talk in little fast clusters

of words.

EXT. ARIZONA MOTEL - NIGHT

Myra, in nightgown, carrying the ice bucket, approaches Room

131.

INT. ROOM 131 - NIGHT

CU, Lilly asleep. Very dim light. The shadows shift on her

face as Myra OUT OF FRAME approaches. Myra's hands ENTER

FRAME, abruptly clamp on Lilly's throat. Lilly's eyes pop

open wide, staring, her mouth stretches open. Myra's arms are

locked straight, pressing her weight down onto her hands

squeezing Lilly's throat. Lilly clutches at Myra's fingers,

tries to reach Myra's face, twists and squirms, then suddenly

lifts her arm up and behind her head, hand dipping under the

pillow, coming out with the silenced gun, pushing the gun

upward, straight-arm, the gun moving up OUT OF FRAME. SOUND

of shot. Blood sprays Lilly's face. Myra's body drops down

onto her, at an angle, so we can still see Lilly's horrified

face over Myra's shoulder as Lilly gasps for breath.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Lilly stares across the room, breathing hard, reliving the

experience.

Lilly sits back, showing that relief again.

Here's the awkwardness. Lilly looks guilty and embarrassed.

Lilly reacts as though he's slapped her. But then she gets

her determination back. She splays out both hands, palm down,

on the attache case on her lap.

Lilly sits back again, brooding at Roy, trying to think how

to get to him, how to get through him or around him. She

sighs, licks her lips.

She stands, putting the attache case on the sofa next to

where she was sitting. Roy, with a faint smile, watches her

leave the room.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Very small, little used. Dark. Lilly switches on the light

when she enters, then leans against the counter, fists

clenched and trembling on the counter in front of her. She

grits her teeth, hyperventilates, stares around the room in

search of escape, an answer, something.

CU, Lilly's face, desperate, grim, but not giving up.

WIDE SHOT. Lilly opens cabinets, finds two glasses, opens the

nearly-empty refrigerator, gets ice cubes from a tray, puts

them in the glasses, puts the partial tray back in the

freezer compartment, fills the glasses from the cold water

tap, puts the glasses on the counter, stares at them briefly.

She then shakes her head, searches the kitchen some more, and

finds a cookie sheet she can use as a tray. She puts the

glasses on the tray, carries the tray from the room, leaving

the light on.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Lilly enters with the tray, crosses to Roy, presents the

glasses, speaks as he reaches for one.

He hesitates. It hadn't occurred to him Lilly might try to

poison him or knock him out. He grins at her and takes a

glass.

Lilly takes the other glass, puts the cookie sheet on a

table, looks down at Roy.

Lilly crosses back to the sofa, sits beside the attache case,

pats it absently as though it is a pet and she's glad it

didn't move, waited for her. She sips water, puts the glass

on the end table.

She nods, accepting the correction.

Roy didn't expect to be made uncomfortable and defensive, and

he resents it.

Lilly subsides back onto the sofa. One hand rests on the

attache case. With the other, she sips water, puts the glass

back down. Roy watches her, unmoving, expressionless. Lilly

frowns, not quite looking at him.

Roy's again unexpectedly uncomfortable. He shifts uneasily in

his chair, trying to think of a response.

Once again, Lilly drops back against the sofa back. Another

round in the fight is over. Roy watches her, patient, waiting

for her to give up, seeing no other outcome.

AN ANGLE on Lilly, frustrated, feeling the need to move, the

pressure of pursuit. Her head turns back and forth, her body

starts false gestures. Finally, abruptly, she gets to her

feet, looks at Roy, looks away, picks up the attache case.

CU, Roy, alert. He won't let her reach the door.

AN ANGLE PANNING with Lilly as she prowls the room, pacing

back and forth, the attache case swinging at her side.

Finally, she stops, standing the attache case on the coffee

table, her hand still on its handle.

She looks at him, attentive without hope.

She sits on the sofa again, this time leaving the attache

case to stand on the coffee table. She studies Roy,

calculating.

Lilly leans back again, but this time her manner is

different; languorous, sexy. She crosses her legs, the upper

leg swinging gently. She smiles gently, encouragingly, at

Roy.

AN ANGLE on Roy, understanding and not wanting to understand.

TWO SHOT. Lilly leans forward toward Roy, inviting him.

Roy will not let anything complicated come to the surface.

AN ANGLE on Roy, his face bruised-looking, eyes scared. He

will not know what's going on. He shakes his head, not

trusting himself to speak.

AN ANGLE on Lilly, leaning forward, tension showing through

the seductive manner.

TWO SHOT, as Lilly gets to her feet and takes a step toward

him. Roy's pressed back into his chair, trying to maintain a

cold facade.

They both turn away at the same instant. Roy turns to the

side to pick up the glass of water, to break the spell and

the tension. Lilly turns back toward the coffee table and

picks up the attache case. Roy, lifting the glass to drink,

turns forward again as Lilly spins forward, swinging the

attache case at his head with all her might. The case crashes

into the glass and into his face. Roy SCREAMS and topples off

the chair, as the one remaining clasp on the case lets go and

money goes flying, filling the air.

AN ANGLE DOWN at Roy, face up, expression horrified, hands to

his throat. A large triangle of glass is in his throat. Blood

pumps thickly, fountaining up.

CU, Lilly, staring down in horror. She lurches forward, but

there's nothing to do. She stares around.

ECU, wads of bills on the floor, getting bloody.

CU, Lilly, in agony, but looking down, kicking.

ECU, Lilly's feet kicking the bills away from the blood.

TWO SHOT, as Lilly drops to her knees beside Roy, who's

already dying. Blood spurts less forcefully. His hands fall

to his sides, eyes stare upward, mouth still moves slightly.

Lilly, shoving money away with her hands now, stares at him,

willing it not to happen. He stops moving. His eyes dull.

Lilly clasps her arms around herself. She knows she doesn't

dare scream. Lips drawn back in a snarl, teeth clenched, she

HISSES her agony through her teeth. She HISSES; she HISSES;

she HISSES. Then, slowly, she regains control.

WIDE SHOT as Lilly gets to her feet. She seems dazed now,

like someone who's just been in a traffic accident. She

blunders around the room, kicks the attache case, bends to

pick it up. She studies the clasp, sees it still works, goes

back to her knees.

LOW ANGLE, Lilly in f.g., Roy in b.g., as Lilly repacks the

money into the case, wiping the blood from some wads onto the

carpet. Finishing, she closes the case, then remains on her

knees, bending over the case. She WEEPS grindingly.

WIDE SHOT, entrance door in b.g. Lilly's weeping subsides.

She gets wearily to her feet, and leaves the room. CAMERA

HOLDS. SOUND of water running in sink. SOUND STOPS. Lilly

reappears. She does not again look toward Roy. She picks up

the attache case, crosses to the door, opens it, steps across

the threshold, reaches back to switch off the light. GO TO

BLACK.

