Slow motion. Armed troops in black uniforms pour out of

unmarked vans and swarm across a lawn in a middle class

residential neighborhood. Yuppie neighbours look on in

shock, confused. Two of the troops carry a battering ram

to the front door of a white two-storey house. A leashed

Rottweiler snarls and barks. In position, their comrades

point M-16s into first-floor windows, ready to be

ambushed. Pan into a window in the kitchen. An

attractive woman in her thirties is making breakfast.

Now, in regular motion, the battering ram breaks open the

front door. The woman, startled, drops her spatula.

Troops pour into the house.

The troops, and one or two trenchcoated agents, continue

entering the house and heading upstairs, still with rifles

ready.

Upstairs, crowded in the narrow hallway, the troops

descend on a bedroom.

The battering ram knocks down a bedroom door.

The prosecutor, a woman of about forty, gives her closing

argument blandly. She'd rather be somewhere else.

As she speaks, the camera pans across the court, panning

down and stopping on the defendant: eleven year old Dade

Murphy.

Fast forward to the sentencing.

The court gasps, Dade's father winces

Now Dade winces, in fact we almost expect him to cry.

Opening credits roll to a backdrop of Dade and his family

and lawyer fighting through a gaggle of journalists and

photographers, in slow motion, and driving away.

Aboard a jetliner, Dade Murphy is staring blankly out the

window, wearing headphones. Exterior view from the

aircraft of approaching New York City. The view becomes a

direct overhead of the buildings and streets of the city,

which then metamorphoses (through animation) into chips

and digital signals on a stylised computer board. The

title logo.

Segue to Dade Murphy, now 18, wearing mirrorshades indoors

and at night, working on his new computer. His mother

calls him.

In the OTV Studios security department, a phone rings, a

man answers nervously.

Dade goes to work on OTV. He closes his eyes and a flurry

of half-second video clips from old TV shows flashes by.

He opens his eyes. His screen says ENTERING ARPS 331 and

then wipes to another screen. Automated Record Playback

System. There is a graphic representation of the

station's automatic videotape changer. Dade turns on his

TV set and turns to OTV. It is running a Rush-Limbaugh

type TV show.

Dade presses a key on his keyboard. The Video Changer

diagram lights up in red. At the station, a robotic arm

selects a videotape from a huge rack of thousands of

tapes.  The "America First" tape slides out of the VTR and

is replaced by an episode of "The Outer Limits" as Dade

watches, drinks Coke and smiles, full of himself.

Suddenly, the ARPS screen is replaced by an ominous

message:

He starts to type ZERO...

Dade types:

Dade's screen dissolves into:

Then the screen changes again:

"The Outer Limits" suddenly flashes off.

Dade starts hacking. Apparently so does Acid Burn. The

tape changer machines at OTV are swamped, sometimes

fighting over the same tape. The program on TV keeps

changing.

The message comes up on Dade's computer screen:

More dueling tape changers, more half second video clips.

Another message.

As the duel continues, Dade types back a taunt of his own:

One last from Acid Burn:

Then his own computer confirms for him that the connection

is terminated.

Next morning. Mrs. Murphy is unpacking. Dade emerges

from his room in a housecoat. He makes a beeline (dodging

moving boxes) for the fridge.

Dade's mom picks up the phone, mocking a call to the

building superintendent.

Dade slams the bathroom door. Mrs. Murphy quickly checks

his room. Dade is showering.

She pauses and regains some of her cool.

We enjoy several views of New York, the morning sun

shining between skyscrapers, neon signs that stay lit day

and night. Dade emerges from the ground-floor apartment

on rollerblades and skates down the street to school.

At school, hundreds of teenagers converse, move around,

head to class.  Dade looks lost among them. He walks up

to a skinny latino kid in a faux leopard-skin muscle

shirt. The kid is on a pay-phone, speaking in Spanish.

Now Dade really looks lost. He heads off in search of the

office.

Dade is filling out a form.

Dade stares at her, stunned. The girl has a decidedly

unconventional appearance, yet is a first-rate beauty.

Dade notices her lips, and in his imagination launches

into a flurry of half-second video clips and art bites,

all involving lips and kissing.

He gives them to her.

She starts leaving. He doesn't.

Dade clues in, gets up and follows her. She takes him on

a brief tour.

They arrive at a classroom.

Kate starts away.

A guy in the halls notices Dade.

Kate starts away again.

Dade enters, and lets the door slam behind him. Across the

roof, a dozen or so geeky looking kids are looking over

the edge, apparently trying to get someone's attention.

One of them notices Dade.

He's too late. The geeks look pretty angry. There is no pool.

Dade tries the door but it's locked. He hammers it with

his palm, furious. Above, thunder roars and it begins

raining.

Dade is soaking wet, and trudges among his classmates

leaving a muddy trail. A three-second video clip rolls

through his mind: it is a screaming woman being strangled

in an old movie. He walks past Kate, who giggles.

The kids are all seated at computer workstations. Dade

is hacking, the latino kid who was on the phone to

Venezuela is running a demo involving dirty-dancing

skeletons.

Meanwhile, the latino kid notices that Dade has been

looking up Kate Libby's school records. And hacking

himself into her advanced English class.

It's after school, kids are heading home, Dade too. The

latino kid notices Dade and catches up with him.

The name rings no bells with Dade.

Another kid, younger and a little geeky looking, runs up

to Dade and The Phantom Phreak.

Phreak starts to hand Dade a flyer.

Phreak hands Dade a flyer for Cyberdelia.

Phreak walks away.

Dade rolls in on rollerblades.  Street vendors hawk

computer parts and bootleg software. A bootleg music

vendor catches Dade's attention.

The small crowd around him finally gets the joke.

Dade wheels into Cyberdelia, which just happens to be

equipped with a ramp down to its main floor for the

benefit of skaters. The place pounds with loud, bassy

techno music and coloured light. Video monitors with

psychedelic patterns complete the atmopshere. There is a

video game with a huge screen.  Phreak is at a pay phone.

Phreak holds a small box up to the receiver, presses a

button, and the box emits a series of tones.

Dade checks out the scene. Kate is playing the big video

game. Dade skates up to her. She loses her last man.

She's got the high score, in fact her name dominates the

top-10 list.

Kate yields the controls to Dade, who begins playing.

Kate's boyfriend looks on from a mezzanine several feet

above.

Kate obliges and joins Curtis.  Dade continues playing.

He plays brilliantly. The game is a flashy 3-D high-speed

chase game with lots of surprises. Dade loses, but his

high score is about to come up.

Dade's score comes up. He's in the #1 position. Phreak

is amazed.

Kate, defeated, leaves. Curtis follows.

Kate and Curtis are sucking face, oblivious to the busy

world around them. Dade and Phreak watch, more than a

little disgusted.

Kate and Curtis start to take off on Curtis' motorcycle.

Kate and Dade make eye contact briefly. The motorcycle

speeds off into the night.

The clock says it's 4:16. As the camera pans up to Dade,

it changes to 4:17. Dade is hacking again. It's the

school's administration system. Dade schedules a test of

the school sprinkler system for 9:30am.

Dade stands alone in the hall, watching the time closely.

Phreak rounds a corner and meets Dade.

Dade doesn't answer. He watches the time a couple of more

seconds, then opens an umbrella. Immediately the fire

sprinklers turn on. Phreak starts getting drenched. He

realizes what is happening.

Oh my God. You...

A bell rings and students pour out into the halls by the

hundreds. They're all being showered on. A tall

cheerleader bounces by Phreak, pushing her pom-pom in his

face.

Dade nods in the affirmative.

Kate walks up to Dade, also understanding what has

happened.

Kate gives Dade a look that could kill and skulks away.

Dade walks away under his umbrella, smug and dry.

Dade, Kate, and a couple of other students are writing on

the chalkboard. Kate finishes first.

The class giggles.

The teacher reads Dade's quotation.

Kate leaps across a desk and snatches the list from the

teacher. Dade is on it. She gives Dade another filthy

look, both Dade and the teacher just shrug. The teacher

moves on to Cereal.

The teacher grabs the list back from Kate.

The class cracks up. Kate and Dade exchange looks as the

teacher escorts Cereal to the door.

She indicates a pile of college applications.

She starts to the door.

She leaves. Dade looks over the college applications for

a second, and pushes them away. He'd rather not do this

now.

Dade, Phreak and Joey are sitting at a table. Joey is

giving a dull account of his hacking adventures. Enter

Cereal.

Cereal pauses, notices Dade, whom he has never met

formally but seen around, and then continues.

Dade and Cereal acknowledge each other.

Cereal pulls out another book.

Cereal hands the orange book to Phreak.

Another book comes out.

Another one.

Another one.

Cereal brings out a large red book.

By now Phreak has made a pile of the books, and the Red

Book looks wholly out of place on the top of the pile.

Joey takes a drag from his cigarette and just nods, with a

big grin on his face.

Cereal pauses a second.

Joey is hacking. A Gibson. He gets in. Using GOD as a

password. Nice graphics represent the machine's vast

systems.

A system operator at Ellingson Mineral Corporation, a

large oil company, notices the intrusion. He gets on the

phone.

The place is a mess, typical of the hacker bachelor pad.

Empty chinese food boxes and Jolt Cola cans litter the

place.

Plague's phone is ringing, waking him.

Joey starts looking for something to download as proof he

was there.

He selects a Garbage file and starts the download. His

screen becomes a psychedelic mind trip.

The Plague glides in on a skateboard. Short and thin,

bearded, about 35 but still trying to be a teenage

anarchist, yet not consciously realizing he sold out that

ideal years ago.

The huge monitor lights up with the display of the

Gibson's resources. Hal and the Plague watch. Plague

starts "surfing" around.

He sees what Joey is downloading. A file called

"Garbage".

He puts on a telephone headset. Hal dials for him.

Joey is sneaking a cigarette while his computer downloads.

There is a knock at the door. It's his mother.

He puts out the cigarette and sprays the room with air

freshener.

He unlocks the door. Joey's mom bursts in. He's still

clambering into bed.

She turns off the computer. It wasn't finished

downloading.

Joey takes a disk out of his computer and stashes it in an

air vent in the cieling.

Phreak, Dade and Cereal are rollerblading through the

halls of an apartment building that is filled with

graffiti. It appears that most of the spray-bomb art was

created by the residents.

Cereal knocks on a door spray-painted "Hackstock"

Cereal shrugs.

A hooded black man in his early twenties answers the door.

Phreak motions to Dade.

Nikon slams the door.

Phreak knocks the door again. Nikon opens again.

Nikon and Cereal do a fake Kung-fu move together.

Later, the four are watching TV. On TV is a secret

service agent giving a news interview.

Cheesy music plays. Razor and Blade, androgynous asian

brothers, have a community access TV show. "Wayne's World"

in eye liner.

Now Razor and Blade have a disconnected payphone in their

studio.

Joey is taking a shower, wearing walkman headphones,

singing along with the music. Joey finishes, turns off

the shower, still singing. He draws open the shower

curtain to find two secret service agents with shotguns

pointed at him.

The agents drag Joey, still naked and wet, out of the

shower and into the living room. His mother is

hysterical..

Joey is pushed into a sofa. He sees his computer, "Lucy",

being carried away.

Joey dives onto the agent carrying Lucy away, losing his

towel.  His mother, seeing his exposed buttocks, is

shocked.

A police-type vehicle pulls up. It's Agent Richard Gill

of the Secret Service.  He stops a young agent for an

update.

They split up.  A reporter and her sound man run up to

Gill.

While Jennifer conducts the interview, agents lead Joey

into an unmarked car. His mother is behind him, still

hysterical.

A tall, impressive building. A cavernous atrium filled

with busy people.

A handsome looking woman in her late thirties walks in.

Margo just blinks prettily.

Plague hits a button on a remote control, and the virus -

a long haired male model - appears on a large screen, in

psychedelic colors. The virus speaks in a hammy Italian

accent.

Plague, Margo and two suits from the boardroom are riding

down an escalator.

The suits get off the escalator, Plague and Margo take the

next one down.

Plague stops a passing secretary and snatches a piece of

paper from her hand.

Joey is distraught over the dismantling of Lucy. Agent

Ray examines the Mac's innards.

Joey's apartment building is an L-shaped skyscraper about

30 storeys high, unimpressive by New York City standards.

Two Secret Service agents are staking Joey out in a car

outside.

His radio crackles.

Dade, Cereal and Phreak check their faces. Cereal brushes

his teeth.

Dade shakes his head.

Dade just smiles.

Cereal and Phreak leave, Cereal dancing.

Plague is wearing a VR helmet and gloves, playing some

sort of action game. He is unaware that Gill has just

entered the room.

He thumps the VR pedestal.

Plague finally notices, and takes off the helmet.

Gill hands Plague a folder. It has the logo of Stanton High.

Plague looks it over and recognizes a name.

It's after school. Dade's just unlocking the front door,

only to find a Secret Service agent behind it.  And one

behind him in the hallway. Both point pistols at him.

They slam Dade against a wall and start frisking him.

They lead him into his room and throw him down on the bed.

Plague is there.

Just sit in the bed and keep your hands where we can see

them.

Dade has a flashback.

The three secret service agents leave Plague and Dade

alone.  Plague shuts the door behind them.

Plague is holding Dade's baseball bat. He shrugs, turns

around, and smashes Dade's stereo to smithereens.

Plague replaces the baseball bat.

Plague leaves.

Dade is lying in bed. A door opens. It's Kate. She opens

her motorcycle jacket, revealing her bare breasts. Dade

starts to get up, she pushes him back own on the bed and

starts kissing him passionately. He responds in kind.

Then, Gill, Agent Ray and Agent Bob burst into the room,

handcuff him, break the two up and haul them away as

Plague looks on smugly.

Then Dade wakes up in a sweat.  It was only a dream. He

regains his composure.  The sound of New York City at

night surrounds him. He goes back to sleep.

The party. A large, well-furnished apartment in an

elegant old skyscraper in the fashionable part of town.

Teenagers dance and writhe to loud, bassy music. Dade and

Phreak arrive.

Phreak shows Dade the book.

Kate, the lovely and gracious hostess, mingles and greets

her many guests, not noticing Dade or Phreak. Cereal

offers Dade a drink from a plastic bottle. Dade, not

knowing what he's in for, drinks. Nikon is the Deejay.

Nikon and Cereal are checking out a truly fine babe.

Cereal and Phreak move through the crowd. Cereal notices

something.

A 12-step recovery group. Addicts, including Joey

Pardella, sit in a semi-circle.

Joey takes a drag. The group reacts indignantly.

Joey takes another drag.

Joey downs his coffee.

Phreak is checking out Kate's computer.

Their cover is blown.

Cereal hides under the desk.

Kate barely acknowledges him.

Curtis leaves.

Kate finally notices that Dade, whom she didn't invite, is at her

party and in her bedroom.

Cereal breaks into hysterics.

Plague is hacking.

She turns her back to him. He does up the zipper on her

dress. Their relationship becomes apparent.

Kate's room is empty, and Dade can't resist going back in

to play with her laptop, which far outclasses his own,

some more. On the balcony, Kate notices and comes back

in.

Dade starts working furiously on it.

Dade slows to a two-finger keypoke, not missing a beat.

They uncomfortably exchange glances.

Dade spray paints camouflage onto his keyboard.

Kate rifles through her address book.

Dade plays quick-draw with disks.

Dade, having mastered the quick-disk-draw in the mirror,

looks satisfied.

All five are together at the beginning of the challenge.

Dade and Kate shake hands and the challenge begins.

At a public phone, Kate hacks into Concourse Bank, looks

up Richard Gill, and has his credit card maxed out.

"Destroy Card" is the final instruction. The other

hackers look on.

A waiter runs a credit card through a validation machine,

sees the message and returns to the patron's table. It is

Richard Gill. Right there, the waiter chops the

MasterCard in two with a pair of scissors, to Gill's

horror.

Dade hacks into an electronic personal ads system and

changes an ad.

At his office, Gill is on the speaker phone with someone

responding to the ad.

Gill punches a button on the phone, another caller comes

on.

Gill punches another button, another caller comes on.

Gill punches another button.

Gill punches another button. He is becoming quite flustered.

He punches another button.

Another caller comes on, and Gill hangs up the phone,

disgusted, offended, and distraught. The Plague is there,

witnessing the whole thing.

It's Kate's turn. Kate is hacking into the Department of

Motor Vehicles. She adds 113 traffic violations and DUI

offender status to Gill's record.

Gill is being arrested quite forcefully by a NYC police

grunt.  He is thrown onto the hood of his car and

handcuffed.

Dade's turn. He hacks into the Secret Service's personnel

file, and changes Gill's status to "Deceased."

The five are playing pool.

Phreak clicks the pool scoreboard so it says 60 - 60.

The other four protest.

Dade thinks about it a second.

Kate gives Dade a look that says "I'm going to hold you to

that."

A shapely figure wearing a red leather legless suit with a

zipper that goes all the way around the crotch. Hands

caress the sultry figure as the camera pans up. The body

belongs to Dade Murphy.

Kate wakes up gasping.  It was only a dream. She pants

and regains her breath. Then she smiles. She enjoyed

that dream.

She opens her locker to reveal a red leather bustier and

bikini bottom.

Dade walks off.

Dade signs an electronic pad for a package from UPS. He

takes the package.

He closes the door and opens the package. It is a laptop

computer, clear plastic shell, full colour screen. Very

high-end, perhaps the equal to Kate's machine. He turns

it on. The Plague's face, distorted, appears. It speaks.

Plague's face vanishes.

Joey lies on his bed with a comic book, looking

despondent. His mother enters.

She kisses his forehead and leaves. He springs back to

life, gets up and gets the disc from where he stashed it

in the air vent.

Joey is nervously waiting on a park bench. Phreak arrives.

Agents Ray and Bob still have Joey staked out.

Joey hands Phreak the disc. Agent Bob is taking pictures,

and Phreak notices.

Joey sees, and runs for it.

The agents split up, one runs after Joey, the other after

Phreak.

Phreak has lost his tail. He puts Joey's disc behind a

condom machine in the boys' room at school, and sticks it

there with gum.

Phreak frantically destroys all records of his hacking

career. He knows he's about to be busted.

The Secret Service is about to burst in on Phreak. He

still hasn't destroyed any records, and starts manically

going through everything. Gill is on his laptop screen.

A knock on the door. Phreak awakes. It's his mother.

The secret service bursts in through the window just as

Phreak's mom opens the blind. She screams, Phreak leaps

to his feet.

Phreak's mom becomes very angry and starts slapping

Phreak, cursing in Spanish.

The undersized Phreak is just a morsel to the hardened

thugs behind these bars and they taunt him viciously as he

is led to his one phone call.

The cop locks the dial on the phone.

Phreak waits for the cop to leave, and hangs up. He

starts rapidly pushing the hangup hook, and he hears a

ringing tone.

Kate answers.

He hangs up just as the cop returns.

Kate is entirely out of place in the boys' room, as the

boys look on amusedly.  She finds the disc behind the

condom machine and pockets it. Then she buys a condom from

the machine and struts out, smiling sweetly, hot as fire.

Kate knocks. Mrs. Murphy lets Kate and Cereal in.

Kate starts to leave.

Cereal leaves the room.

A knock on the door. Dade's mom peeks in.

She leaves.

Later.  Plague phones Dade. Plague has Lauren Murphy's

records on his screen.

Dade does.

An extensive criminal record with a strange woman's

picture comes up. The strange woman transforms into

Dade's mother.

Dade emerges from his room. His exhausted, overworked

mother is asleep on the couch. He pulls a blanket over

her.

Shortly after, Dade is outside on a payphone.

Dade hangs up and waits for some time.  A limousine drives

by, with a skateboarder tailing. Plague grabs the disc,

jumps in the limo and speeds away. Dade tries to chase

but gives up quickly.

Dade shows up.  Kate, Nikon, and Cereal are working on the

disc.

Nikon points out part of the code.

Dade takes Nikon's place.

Hours pass. Dade studies and reverse engineers the

garbage file. The other hackers watch, and do just about

anything but be hackers. Finally, over boxes of

half-finished pizza, Dade makes an announcement.

Dade indicates a rapidly scrolling data display.

Nikon whistles.

Nikon closes his eyes and access his photographic memory.

Dade and Kate cut through a chain link fence and jump into

a dumpster at Ellingson. Kate lands on Dade.

Kate fishes around in her pants, never breaking eye

contact with Dade. She pulls out a flashlight. They

start trashing. They get up to leave and are spotted by a

security guard.

Kate pulls out a flare gun and fires it at the security

guard.  He ducks.

Nikon is staring down a manhole, Cereal is fishing through

an adjacent phone company truck.

Cereal emerges with a beltload of equipment and a hard hat.

But he forgot the most important thing.

Cereal goes back to the truck and gets a thick manual. The

phone company technician comes up from the manhole.

The phone company tech jumps back in the hole, Cereal and

Nikon take off.

A woman is seated at the desk.  Agent Gill walks by.

Cereal emerges from the desk, between her legs. His tool

belt dangles obscenely from his crotch.

Cereal walks away with his buttcrack seriously showing.

Nikon poses as a flower delivery boy. He winds his way

through the offices of Ellingson Mineral, "shoulder

surfing", watching the workers entering passwords. His

photographic memory captures everything.  The Plague walks

past him, noticing briefly but not making the connection.

The Da Vinci virus' launch/cancel prompt is up.

Margo starts to protest.

Plague clicks on "Launch". The virus repeats its demand.

As the virus speaks, a supertanker sails on a choppy sea.

Plague leaves a message on Gill's answering machine.

Gill gets on the phone.

As Gill gives the order, a mysterious device under his

desk blinks. Cereal put it there.

Nikon and Cereal taped Gill's orders.

Nikon calls Kate.

Cereal, Nikon, Dade and Kate skate through a run down

subway platform and get on the "A" Train. They go over

the results of their password gathering spree.

Kate gets ready to get off the subway.

Dade gets up.

Weird music plays, lots of weird people dance.  Razor and

Blade are on stage, dancing in front of a huge speaker.

Dade and Kate push through the crowd. The song changes to

a fast industrial rap number, Razor and Blade leave the

stage, and Dade starts getting moshed. He climbs on the

stage to follow Razor and Blade. For his trouble, he is

thrown back onto the crowd, who pass him around overhead.

Finally the crowd lets him go.  He catches up with Kate.

Dade tries to explain, but is at a loss for words.

They make their way to the entrance to Razor and Blade's

lair. Video monitors are everywhere.

A robotic arm with a revolver swings around to point at

Dade.

Dade winces at his own corniness.

The gun goes off. It's only a cigarette lighter! No one

can accuse Razor and Blade of not having a sense of humor.

Dade just smiles.

Dade hacks into the city traffic light control system.

Suddenly there is gridlock on the streets of New York

City.

Nikon is playing chess against two Hassidic Jews.

Cereal's beeper goes off. It displays the message:

Nikon checkmates his opponent and the two leave.

Dade, Cereal, Nikon, and Kate skate through the streets.

Dade's program to freeze all the traffic lights on green,

runs on schedule at 9:00:00 precisely. Picture New York City in

morning rush hour, and every traffic light is green. Instant

gridlock ensues. The four skate through the traffic easily, while

the Secret Service, now pursuing them, is stuck. Gill punches a

parked car in frustration. Its alarm goes off.

The four hackers skate into Grand Central Station and head

to the lowest level. They meet up with Joey.

The hackers are now setting up laptops at a bank of pay

phones.  Dade is wearing a "Pirate Eye" eyepiece.

Cereal screams.

Cereal takes off to fix the phones.

Joey takes Cereal's place.

The four boot up their machines. Various vanity screens

come up on the laptops. They begin to hack. We see the

inside of the Gibson. Viruses of all kinds begin to pour

in. In the offices and data processing rooms, the

Ellingson staff are in pandemonium. Happy faces with eye

patches appear on their screens. "Sit on my interface."

"Shit for Brains." "Arf Arf Arf!" Cookie monsters.

The big monitor shows the attack in progress.

The main screen is filled with:

Another virus appears.

The systems display comes up. Red flashes everywhere,

signifying new attacks. Plague presses a key.

Rabbit icons start to fill the systems display.

The Da Vinci Virus sings "Row Row Row Your Boat".

Tanker ballasts start filling - for real.

The Secret Service and NYPD are stuck.  They turn around

and head for Grand Central Station.

The public phone next to Dade's rings.  Dade answers.

It's The Plague.

Kate's phone rings. It's Razor.

Hackers in England, Italy, Japan, Russia, everywhere

mobilize and start attacking the Ellingson Gibson. The

English hacker looks and talks suspiciously like Annie

Lennox's husband. Our heroes relentlessly search for

the right garbage file.

Duke Ellingson arrives.

Dozens of armed Secret Service and SWAT troops push

through the crowded station looking for the hackers.

The garbage file lights up.  The familiar psychedelic

swirl of equations and fractal graphics returns.

Dade is disconnected.

The SS and SWAT are still closing in on the hackers.

The SS and SWAT push through crowds.

The SS are nearly there.

Joey has found the file.

The SS arrive.  Gill himself has his .357 drawn.

It's an empty bank of payphones, the receivers are linked

together and taped up. No hackers. They keep going.

Joey completes the download.

Margo and Duke are awed by Plague's imminent failure and

total unprofessionalism.

The Da Vinci virus dies. The tankers stop capsizing and

right themselves.

The main screen lights up:

The Gibson dies in a flash of light.

The hackers cheer and congratulate each other.

The SS have caught up with the hackers. Agent Bob seems to

be choosing which pore on which hacker's face to blow away

first. Only Joey thinks to put his hands up.

As they are led away, a handcuffed Dade surrreptitiously tosses the

disc with the worm into a trashcan.

Outside, he notices Cereal, who wasn't present to be

arrested. He yells to the crowd, but really is

addressing Cereal.

Later, Cereal is trashing through the garbage cans in

Grand Central Station. Eventually he finds the disc.

To Cereal's disgust, it has gum stuck to it.

Gill phones The Plague to report the successful takedown.

At Plague's place, Plague and Margo toast with champagne,

giggle, and then scurry off to bed...

Dade and Kate are there.

The intercom beeps.

Gill leaves.

She pauses, realizing his gesture.

Dade turns on the intercom. Gill can be heard through it.

Agent Bob enters.

The news crew interviews Gill.

Nikon and Joey are led in.

The monitors cut into static, then Cereal appears.

Razor and Blade busily work on keeping him on the air.

Cereal is now seen and heard on the big screen in Times

Square.

Margo watches this and sits bolt upright in bed.

An account number scrolls below Cereal's chin.

His voice echoes across the earth and among the

satellites.

Almost supernaturally, Plague is already gone. He was

right next to her, stark naked in bed a second ago.

The hackers embrace and congratulate each other again,

Lauren Murphy hugs her son.

Margo Wallace has been arrested, and is being led into the

women's lockup. Some of the other women grab at her

expensive Italian leather jacket as she is led to her cell.

"Babbage" is The Plague in disguise; he now appears about

60 years old.

The pillow slides in behind his head, he reaches up to

adjust it.

A handcuff snaps onto his wrist. It's Gill.

Dade and Kate are on their date. Dade is smartly,

somewhat androgynously dressed. Kate is heavily made up,

and yes, she is wearing a dress.

Dade and Kate swimming, fully clothed, in a pool on a

roof.

They look out at the skyline. Suddenly, the lights in

three buildings change. They spell out:

Kate laughs, honestly impressed.

Kate continues laughing.

They kiss passionately.

THE END

