<b><!--

</b>

<b>/*

</b>Break-out-of-frames script

By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com)

Over 400+ free scripts here!

Above notice MUST stay entact for use

<b>*/

</b>

if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Hannah and Her Sisters

As the last credit appears, the song ends in a crescendo and

the screen fades to total black.

Immediately, a new melody begins, an uptempo jazz number, as

a title appears on the screen.

INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A full face of Lee, wearing a gray sweater and leaning

against the dining room doorway.  She gazes into the camera

with a half-smile on her face as Elliot speaks over the

screen.

Lee glances over her shoulder, then turns from the doorway

and walks away.  The camera follows her, moving across a

book-and-photograph-filled bookshelf that obscures her from

view as she walks into a crowded, comfortable vestibule.

People, some holding drinks, some just entering the

apartment, surround her.  Everyone is talking at once,

carrying on easy, familiar conversation.

Lee smiles at the various people, exchanging greetings.

Two more guests enter the apartment; the vestibule is full

now.  Still walking, Lee lightly hugs one of the children as

she continues on her way towards the living room.  Elliot's

voice, as well as the jazzy music, is heard.

Lee walks into the living room, turning her head back for a

moment to talk to the child she has just hugged.

The camera is still moving with Lee as she smiles and stops

to chat with her mother.  Elliot's voice, as well as the

music, continues over the low din of warm conversation.

Lee starts to walk off again, finishing her conversation

with her mother.  She passes several other guests, then

turns to greet April, giving her a warm, brief hug.

Elliot's voice-over continues as he is actually seen,

standing in a doorway having a conversation with a gesturing,

rotund man.  Both are holding drinks as Lee, carrying a tray

of hors d'oeuvres and two drinks, walks between them.  The

space is very tight; the men hold up their drinks to make

room for her.

Elliot watches Lee walk off; the other man, oblivious,

continues to talk.  Elliot reluctantly returns to the

conversation, but he can't help turning his head to gaze at

the offscreen Lee as the other man chatters on.

The camera resumes following a smiling Lee.  She has just

put down the tray and drinks near April, and briskly and

obliviously, she walks past a doorway where Elliot, still

ruminating, watches her, entranced.

The camera stays with Elliot, who is still watching the

offscreen Lee.  In the background, guests continue to

chatter warmly with each other.

Hannah, carrying a tray of hors d'oeuvres, walks up behind

the distracted Elliot.

Elliot returns from his reveries with a start.

Elliot, taking one of the hors d'oeuvres, starts nibbling as

well as he and Hannah walk past the bookshelf into the

living room.

Elliot and Hannah, eating and talking, walk past a hallway

and offscreen as Holly appears, walking down the hallway.

She holds a drink and a plate of hors d'oeuvres; she stands

at the entrance to the hallway, eating and looking at the

offscreen guests.

Holly, standing in the hallway onscreen, swallows loudly.

Holly takes a sip of her drink as Hannah and Elliot walk

over to her.

Holly and Hannah begin to laugh.

Holly and Hannah walk off; Elliot watches them leave.

INT. HANNAH'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannah, licking her fingers, walks past a memo-cluttered

refrigerator to the stove as Holly, behind her, begins to

speak.  The faint sounds of music are still heard.

As Holly talks, sipping her drink, Hannah busily works in

the kitchen, which contains a large center table stacked

with bowls and plates of food, hanging pots and pans, and

general party clutter.  She walks on-and-offscreen as she

talks and listens to her sister.

Hannah, who'd been mashing some food in a bowl on a nearby

counter, hesitates momentarily.  She turns to Holly.

Hannah, licking her fingers, walks past Holly.

A timer goes off.  Hannah walks past Holly to attend to some

food on a different stove.  Holly turns to face her.  Only

Holly is seen as she talks to the offscreen Hannah, the

camera moving in closer on her face.  As Holly speaks, she

distractedly nibbles an hors d'oeuvre.  In the background,

her parents can be heard singing in the living room.

Holly pops another hors d'oeuvre into her mouth as the

background singing gets louder and the film cuts to:

INT. HANNAH'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The living room is crowded with family and guests sitting

comfortably on chairs near the piano, where Evan, Hannah's

father, plays "Bewitched" as Hannah's mother, Norma, sits

nearby, accompanying him in their duet.  A child is sprawled

out under a blanket on a sofa; some guests chatter quietly;

others drink and eat, listening.

As they continue to sing, the film cuts back to the kitchen,

where Lee, carrying some glasses, enters through the doorway.

Lee walks over to her sisters, putting the glasses down on a

counter.  Hannah is scooping seeds out of a cantaloupe.

Holly, leaning on the table, sips her drink.  The music from

the living room is softly heard as the three sisters chat

comfortably and easily with each other.

The sisters all talk at once; Hannah is still working at the

sink.

Lee leaves the kitchen.  Holly, puffing on her cigarette,

watches her go.

Hannah shakes her head in disapproval while Holly angrily

takes another sip of her drink.

And the film cuts briefly back to the living room, where

Evan is still playing the piano and singing.  The camera

moves past him and a few guests to Norma, who is

enthusiastically singing along, looking at Evan and moving

her hands.

INT. HANNAH'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT

The table is beautifully set for Thanksgiving dinner,

complete with candles, flowers, cut crystal, china, and

silver.  Hannah's children are playing in the room as Hannah

enters, carrying a huge roast turkey.  Behind her is Holly,

carrying a casserole.  Hannah's parents can still be heard

singing in the background.

As the sisters talk, the piano music stops.  There's the

sound of light applause as Evan begins a new song, faintly

heard in the dining room.

The film cuts to April, standing in the doorway of the

dining room and holding a drink.

The camera moves with April as she walks over to the table,

where Hannah and Holly are lighting candles.

Holly groans, looking at her sister, while April sips her

drink and nods.

Hannah screams with laughter as she walks toward the end of

the table, past a gleeful Holly, who points her finger at

Hannah as she passes.  Hannah, still laughing, playfully

pushes the accusing finger away.

She walks over to a nearby china cabinet.

As Holly continues to tease her sister, Hannah opens a

drawer in the cabinet.  She takes out two apples decorated

with paper turkey heads and tails and hands them to April.

April starts to put the turkey apples on the table.  A

bemused Hannah takes two more out of the cabinet and places

one of them on the table as well.

While Holly is talking, Hannah hands her the last turkey

apple, accidentally sticking her with one of the toothpicks

that keeps the decorations in place.

The film cuts to a short hallway leading to a bathroom in

Hannah's apartment.  In the foreground is a standing lamp.

In the background, Elliot is seen walking inside the

bathroom, looking around the room.  Light piano music is

dimly heard.

He walks out of the bathroom, moving down the hallway

towards the camera.

Elliot walks into the bedroom as Lee continues to talk

offscreen.  The camera, leaving Elliot, moves across the

room, past a wall of framed paintings, a headboard and bed,

a night table and lamp, revealing Lee. She is flipping

through a book by a curtained window.

The camera stays with Lee as she walks around the room, past

another curtained window, a television set, and a rolltop

desk.  She absently flips through the book as she talks to

the offscreen Elliot.

Lee puts the book she's been holding down on the desk, only

to pick up another one.  She looks at the offscreen Elliot.

She reacts.  The camera moves to a blushing Elliot, following

him now as he walks across the room.

As Lee speaks, Elliot parts a hanging curtain against the

wall to reveal a stereo and some records.  He looks at the

offscreen Lee.

As Elliot reaches inside the stereo shelf, grabbing a bottle

of antihistamines, the camera moves back to Lee, who sits

down on the bed.  She is still holding a book.

Elliot walks over to Lee; he sits down on a footstool in

front of her.

She chuckles; Elliot smiles and chuckles with her.

Elliot turns in the direction of his wife's voice.

Hannah, eating a carrot stick, enters the bedroom.  The

camera stays with her momentarily as she walks towards

Elliot and Lee.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Everyone is seated around the table for Thanksgiving dinner.

Facing the camera are Holly, Lee, Norma, and Hannah.  She

sits to the left of Elliot, who's at the head of the table.

On his right is Evan; April sits next to him.  She and the

other guests sit with their backs to the screen.  The table

overflows with food, floral decorations, and candles.  In

the background, the children sit at a separate table; a maid

serves them turkey.  The guests chatter comfortably among

themselves as they eat.

Evan continues to clank his glass to get everyone's attention.

Resigned, Holly puts down her silverware.  Lee smothers a

laugh.  Norma, reacting, glances at Holly and Lee.  Everyone

knows what's coming.

Holly laughs.  Lee glances over to her, reacting.  Hannah,

embarrassed, reacts and sits with her hands on her face.

Lee and the rest of the guests put down their silverware.

They look at Evan, listening.

Hannah, embarrassed, makes a victory sign.

Lee and Holly try to suppress their laughter.  Norma glares

at them.

Elliot wraps his arm around Hannah; he pulls her towards him

affectionately and kisses her on the cheek.  She hugs him

back.

Mavis the maid exits, carrying some trays, as the group

starts to cheer and applaud.  Holly waves her napkin at

April, then holds up her wine glass.

The group continues to cheer as they all toast Hannah.  She

reacts, smiling but embarrassed.

The guests, sipping their wine, quiet down as Norma continues

to speak.  Lee and Holly unsuccessfully try to contain their

laughter.  Mavis reenters the dining room to serve more food

to the children.

Norma toasts her daughter; everyone follows her.  The

applause and cheers begin anew.  Hannah, reacting, chuckles.

A few guests sip their wine.  They all quiet down as Hannah

starts her speech, glancing around the table and gesturing.

Hannah tenderly takes Elliot's hand as she looks around the

table.  He, in turn, kneads her shoulder, chuckling with

equal tenderness.

Hannah, still embarrassed, looks down at a plate.  The group

applauds once more, toasting and drinking, and warmly

sounding their approval.

Classical string music plays as the film cuts to:

EXT. MANHATTAN STREET - NIGHT

A taxi moves down Broadway towards the camera, passing a

truck on the right, the Winter Garden marquee advertising

Cats, and several buildings, and as the taxi moves offscreen,

the classical music still playing, the movie cuts to the

taxi's backseat.  Lee sits by the window, leaning her head

in her hand, a reflective look on her face.  Her voice is

heard over the screen.

INT. FREDERICK'S LOFT - NIGHT

Lee stirs a cup of coffee on the counter of the loft's

modern kitchen area; a nearby vase hold flowers.  She walks

across the loft, with its high ceilings and beige walls,

holding her coffee.

Lee continues to walk, past a modern chaise, a bookcase,

some sofas, two columns.  Lamps hang down from the ceiling.

The classical music still plays in the background.  Lee

stops at a plastic-enclosed work area.  Frederick can be

seen working at a drawing board on the other side of the

clear plastic screen.

The background music stops.

As Lee walks over to the drawing board where Frederick is

sitting, he is seen intently cleaning some paintbrushes with

a rag.  Lee stands by him, leaning over the board, and looks

directly at him.  The table is filled with cans of brushes

and artist's equipment.

Frederick and Lee embrace; Lee sighs.

Lee kisses Frederick twice, then releases him and walks out

of the work area.

Lee walks over to the loft's stereo area, pulling up the

sleeves of her sweater as Frederick talks.

Lee picks up a book from the stereo shelf.  She leans back

against the unit, glancing through its pages.

Frederick, leaving his work area, walks past Lee; his hands

are in his pockets.

The camera stays with Frederick as he walks into the loft's

bedroom area.

He sits down at the foot of the bed and starts taking off

his shoes.

Lee sits down next to Frederick; he takes her hand.

Lee kisses Frederick back on the cheek.  They embrace.

Frederick laughs; their embrace gets tighter.

Upbeat jazz plays in the background and continues as the

film cuts to:

INT. TV STUDIO CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Metal elevator doors open and Mickey Sachs, a high-powered

television producer, walks out, deep in conversation with

his assistants, Paul and Larry.  As the elevator operator

begins to reclose the door with his passengers, Mickey, his

assistants fast behind, walks down an office corridor past

busy groups of studio personnel.  Indistinct conversation,

as well as the jazz, is heard in the background as the trio

talk.

The trio pass Mary, another assistant, in conversation with

two other co-workers.  She holds a clipboard.

Without missing a beat, he takes Mary's wrist and continues

walking.

A foursome now, they briskly walk past a man and a woman

going over a script.  Mary and Mickey lead; Paul and Larry

follow.

As the group walks through a large doorway, Larry catches up

to Mickey.

The group turns right into a new corridor, briefly off the

screen.  As they scurry off, their voices are heard.

They are all now seen walking down the new corridor towards

the camera.  The corridor is crowded with busy TV personnel.

The group continues to talk frantically as people hurry past

them.  One man pushes rudely past Mary as he walks; she

looks back at him briefly.

Mary checks her wristwatch as they rush down the corridor.

As the group briskly walks past an open door, Gail, another

assistant, runs out, brandishing her glasses.

Gail runs in front of the group.  Without missing a step,

she faces Mickey and walks backwards, gesturing and talking

frantically.

The fast-tracking group turns the corner.  Gail pats Mickey's

back; she gestures in exasperation.

He is interrupted by Ed Smythe, an official from the

Standards and Practices Department, who's been standing in

the corridor waiting for Mickey.  Mickey stops and shakes

Ed's hand as if he'd known the official would be there.

Gail stops by his side while the others walk into a

background studio doorway that is busy with scurrying

personnel.

A writer, holding a script, walks out of the background

studio, looking around.

Mickey, Gail, and Ed turn towards the writer.

Mickey and Gail walk over to the angry writer, Ed forgotten

with this new crisis.

Mickey, Gail, and the writer start walking down a corridor

adjacent to the studio.

The writer reacts angrily.  Gail tries to get Mickey's

attention as they walk.

Mickey, still in surprised shock, turns away from the angry

writer.  He stands by an open dressing room, where Ron, an

actor, slouches, dazed, in a chair facing a makeup mirror.

People mill in the background behind the actor.

Mickey, remembering Ron, runs into the dressing room.  Gail

follows him.  Inside, a man and a woman talk, ignoring Ron.

They share a drink in a paper cup.  The woman looks back at

Ron; she gestures with disgust.

Ron coughs.

Gail walks around the chair.  The camera shows she and

Mickey talking to Ron through the reflection in the cluttered

makeup mirror.

Ron sighs.

Mickey, as reflected in the mirror, starts to pace as the

movie cuts to:

EXT. BEVERLY HILLS BOULEVARD - DAY

Norman, a Los Angeles TV producer and Mickey's former

partner, is driving down a peaceful street lined with palm

trees.  He's wearing sunglasses and headphones.  He clicks

his fingers in time to the music only he hears on his

Walkman.  He's smiling contentedly while Mickey talks over

the sun-filled scene.  The continuous background jazz plays

louder.

INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT FOYER - DAY

As Mickey finishes his ruminations, Hannah is seen walking

towards her front door.  She opens it, her back to the

camera.  Mickey stands there holding two boxed gifts.  The

jazz stops.

Hannah nods as Mickey comes inside.  She closes the door

behind him.

Hannah continues to nod patiently, patting Mickey on the

back, as they make their way across the foyer into the den,

where the twins are playing.  Mickey wears his coat.

Her voice trails off as Mickey walks over to the twins.

Hannah's twins greet Mickey with cries of "Hi, Daddy!" and

indistinct chatter.

Mickey hands a gift to each twin.  They grow quiet, suddenly

shy.

The twins put down their gifts, one on the sofa, one on the

coffee table, and hug their father.

Hannah makes room on the coffee table for the gift she is

holding; she places it next to the other one.  The boys

start opening them.

She helps Twin #2 open his present.  It's a football.

Twin #2, panting, runs offscreen to catch the football.

Mickey throws the football.

There's a sound of breaking glass.  Hannah and Mickey react.

EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET - DAY

Mickey is walking up a West Side street, his hands in his

coat pockets.  Jazz plays in the background as he talks over

the screen.

Mickey pushes open the outside door of Dr. Abel's office, as

the movie cuts to the doctor's consultation room.  The

doctor is framed in the doorway, looking through a file

cabinet.

While Mickey answers him offscreen, Dr. Abel turns and walks

toward him.  The camera follows the doctor's movements from

the other side of the wall, obscuring him briefly.

It moves across a dark examining-room wall to a second

doorway, where Mickey sits on a stool, continuing to talk to

the offscreen Dr. Abel.

Dr. Abel walks back onscreen.  Both he and Mickey are now

seen through the second doorway.  Dr. Abel sniffs and stands

directly in front of the sitting Mickey.  He stares down at

him as Mickey talks.

Dr. Abel chuckles.

An uptempo big-band sound is heard as the movie cuts to

Mickey's examination, beginning with a close-up of Dr. Abel

using an otoscope to examine the ear of a nervous Mickey.

Next is a hearing test.  The film shows the doctors's hands

turning the dials on a sonometer.  Mickey sits on a nearby

high stool, large earphones on his head.  He listens with

such concentration that he squints his eyes.  He holds up a

finger in response to the sounds he hears in his headset.

Finally, the film shows Dr. Abel hitting a large turning

fork with his finger.  He puts the vibrating fork to Mickey's

ear.  Mickey, looking up at the offscreen doctor's face, nods.

The music stops as the film cuts back to Dr. Abel's

consultation room.  Dr. Abel walks from the examining room,

through the consultation room, to a second examining room

across the way.  He talks to the offscreen Mickey as he walks.

Dr. Abel moves offscreen in the second examining room.  The

camera stays focused on the doorway to this room as the

doctor and Mickey talk offscreen.

Dr. Abel briefly passes by the doorway.

Looking preoccupied, Dr. Abel walks back into the

consultation room, holding Mickey's open file.  He strides

over to his desk, revealing a frightened Mickey, sitting in

a chair opposite it.  Still standing, the doctor leans over

the desk, his back to the camera, and makes a few notes in

the file.

Dr. Abel chuckles as he closes Mickey's file and straightens

up.  The camera looks past his back and shoulders to the

anxious Mickey.

Dr. Abel lays his pen across Mickey's closed file.  He walks

around his desk and sits on its edge close to Mickey.

EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY

Mickey stands in a telephone booth on a corner near Dr.

Abel's office; he talks on the phone.  It is raining.  A man

and a woman holding an umbrella pass by; traffic moves

across a nearby intersection.

The film cuts to Dr. Wilkes, on the telephone at his end.

He is in his office; he leans back in his chair, dangling

his stethoscope as he speaks.  Behind him, a chest X-ray is

mounted on a light panel.

The movie cuts back and forth between Mickey in his phone

booth asking questions and Dr. Wilkes in his office answering

them.

INT. MICKEY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Gail, wearing her glasses, stands behind a crowded but well-

ordered desk.  Two assistants, a man and a woman, stand

around her.

The assistants walk off.  As they leave, Gail calls out

after them.

The telephone starts to ring, Gail pauses, looking offscreen.

She takes off her glasses and squints.

The film cuts to Mickey, who is pacing and wringing his

hands.  He walks over to Gail.  The phone continues to ring.

He starts to pant, looking worriedly around the room.  He

continues to wring his hands as Gail stares at him, concerned.

She sits down and picks up the phone.

Gail hangs up the phone.

He pants and begins to pace around the room.  The camera

follows him as he walks away from Gail.

Mickey sighs.

He sighs again as Gail, frustrated, gestures impatiently to

the papers on the desk.

Mickey begins pacing around the room again.  He wrings his

hands and blows on them.

Sophisticated pop music plays as the film cuts to:

INT. LOFT - DAY

An abstract painting on a wall fills the screen.  Light

laughter is heard, as well as the sophisticated music;

offscreen brunch guests chatter indistinctly.

Holly walks onto the screen in front of the painting.  She

holds an almost empty tray of hors d'oeuvres; she wears a

uniform.

Holly walks past the painting towards the female brunch

guest.  A man walks in front of her.  Chatter, light

laughter, and music are still heard; a party is in progress.

Holly laughs lightly as she walks away from the woman.

Holding her tray, she passes a large oval loft window and

several clusters of brunch guests.  They are eating and

drinking.  No one pays any attention to her.

One of the men, murmuring his thanks, takes a last shrimp

puff as Holly passes.

Holly finally makes her way into the cluttered loft kitchen.

Her tray is empty.

Holly, excited, runs over to April, who is busy taking the

Stroganoff out of the oven.  She wears the same uniform as

Holly: black skirt, white shirt, and black bowtie.

April, holding the Stroganoff, dashes out of the kitchen to

serve the party guests.  Holly calls after her, offscreen,

as David walks past the hurrying April into the kitchen.

David walks over to Holly, who is busy at the pot-and-pan-

covered stove.

As Holly carries the quiche outside to the party, April

comes back into the kitchen from another doorway.  Music, as

well as the chatter of mingling guests, is heard in the

background.

She walks past David to a counter where she begins to fold

napkins.  David leans back against the sink.

Holly enters the kitchen holding out a plate of clams.  She

walks over to David.

They shake hands.

April walks offscreen to another area of the kitchen.  Holly

picks up a napkin from the crowded table.

David walks around the table, putting the plate of clams

down on the already crowded surface.  Holly follows him,

chuckling, throwing her napkin into an offscreen garbage can

as David stops at a small television set near the doorway.

Guests in the other room can be seen chatting together in

clusters.

Canned laughter and miscellaneous chatter is heard from the

television set.  David watches the set, still munching on a

clam, while Holly and April reassure him offscreen.

David checks his wristwatch as Holly walks over to him.

Holly chuckles as David, listening to April, impressed,

walks over to her.  She is standing by the table.

April chuckles as Holly walks back onscreen; she is busy

preparing another tray of hors d'oeuvres.

The three exchange glances.  Holly shrugs.

EXT. MANHATTAN STREET - DAY

A contemporary red building, designed by David, is seen,

squeezed in between two older buildings.  Holly, April, and

David talk offscreen.

The film moves down from the buildings to reveal the trio

sitting in David's Jaguar across the street.  David and

April sit in the front seat; Holly sits scrunched up in

back, her head slightly forward.

David turns and briefly glances at Holly; he then turns back

to April.

David starts the car and the movie cuts to an unfolding

visual excursion through New York City's landmark buildings,

as seen from the trio's point of view in the moving Jaguar.

Inspiring classical music plays in the background.

The series of shots includes the Dakota, complete with

surrounding winter trees, the Graybar building on Lexington

Avenue, an incredibly ornate building on Seventh Avenue and

Fifty-eighth Street, a red-stone church, an old building

with embellished, bulging windows on West Forty-fourth

Street, the Art Deco Chrysler Building, a red-brick building,

Abigail Adams's old stone house, and the Pomander Walk

nestled off Broadway on the Upper West Side.  The group can

be seen walking down the path between the old-fashioned row

houses and shrubbery.  A lamppost sits in the foreground.

It is now dark.  The music continues to play as the film

cuts to the facade of a rococo-style building, complete with

French doors and ornate windows.  The admiring group is

heard offscreen.

The music stops.  The screen, which has been exploring the

rococo building's facade, now shows the equally elegant

building alongside it.

The film moves from the two elegant facade to show an ugly,

ultra-modern structure covered with tiny, diamond-shaped

motifs.

The film moves from the ugly facade to the building's

equally ugly entrance.  A large car is parked right in front

of the building.

The group is now seen walking down the canopied entrance

stairs of an apartment house on the other side of the

street, where they'd been gazing at both the lovely and ugly

facades across the way.  David is in the lead; the women

follow, Holly slightly behind April.

They walk towards the car.

David leans over the roof of the car, looking at the women,

waiting for their decision.

She looks at David.

Both she and April mumble awkwardly.

They get into the car.  Once again Holly's in the backseat.

The classical music begins anew.

The movie cuts briefly to cut to the traffic and lights of a

Manhattan avenue as seen from the moving Jaguar.  It then

moves to a close-up of Holly, sitting in the backseat, her

head near the window.  She is staring straight ahead.

The movie cuts to Holly's point of view: the front seat

where David and April sit, the Jaguar's windshield, and the

passing lights and traffic of the street.  Holly continues

her ruminations as April leans over to say something to David.

The film moves back to Holly in the backseat, still lost in

thought.

The classical music stops and some uptempo jazz begins.  The

screen cuts to black and a title appears.

EXT. STREET OUTSIDE FREDERICK'S LOFT - DAY

The movie briefly holds on a ripped, red, paint-splattered

door as Elliot, wearing a raincoat, appears nearby.  He

looks down the street and the film cuts to his point of

view: Frederick's loft building.

The movie goes back to the impatient Elliot; he's looking

around him.  He glances at his watch as the film cuts back

once again to the loft building, where Lee finally appears,

walking down the street away from Elliot.  A truck passes

down the street.  Lee doesn't see him.  She walks further

and further away; she turns a corner.

Elliot frantically looks around again; then, in a burst of

decision, he runs around a garbage dump, crossing the

street, and still running, he moves down an adjacent street,

past The Canal Lumber Company and several other buildings,

as the film cuts back to Lee, walking down a different

street, oblivious.

The jazz plays on as the movie cuts back and forth between

the fast-moving Elliot, rushing down the SoHo streets, past

a truck waiting for a light to change, past some pedestrians,

some garbage cans, turning corners, and the strolling Lee,

walking up different streets, past different buildings.

Lee eventually crosses a street, lost in thought, looking

right and left, as Elliot, pretending nonchalance, waits on

the corner, looking at his watch.  She looks up in surprise;

the music stops.

They begin to walk down the street.

She shrugs.

They begin to walk again as the movie cuts to the interior

of the Pageant Book & Print Shop, an old, serious bookstore.

A nude print hangs at the end of one of the library shelf-

like bookcases, which are packed, row after row, with books.

An unseen Elliot and Lee carry on a conversation as the

camera moves down an aisle, past the rows of books.  A piano

playing "Bewitched" is heard.  Pictures hang on the aisle

ends of the shelves.

The camera moves past another aisle of books to reveal Lee,

browsing through a shelf.

She walks down a center aisle, the camera still in its

parallel aisle, following her.

Lee stops at the row where Elliot has been browsing.  She is

hidden by a shelf; only Elliot is seen as he talks to the

offscreen Lee.

Elliot starts walking down the center aisle, in the same

direction Lee had walked up.  He continues to talk to her as

she remains offscreen in a nearby row.

Elliot stops walking to browse through some books.

"Bewitched" still plays.

Elliot turns and walks back down the center aisle to a row

of books he'd already passed.

Lee walks over to Elliot in the center aisle.  She looks at

the book.

He hands Lee the book.  She thumbs through it, as the movie

cuts to:

The street outside the bookstore.  Lee, holding the book in

a brown bag, and Elliot are walking out.

A taxi pulls over to the curb; they walk over to it.

Elliot opens the rear door for Lee.  She laughs as she gets

in.

He watches the taxi pull away.

INT. FREDERICK'S LOFT BEDROOM - NIGHT

Lee, in slacks and shirt, is curled up on the bed, her back

to the camera, as she reads the e.e. cummings poem in the

glow of a night-table lamp.  The piano music is still heard.

As Lee continues to read aloud, the movie cuts to Elliot's

darkened den, lit by a light in the hallway.  Elliot enters,

wearing a robe, crossing the room in the dark.

Elliot turns on a light.  The camera stays on his face as he

looks off into the distance, mouthing indistinctly the line

of poetry Lee next reads.

The film leaves Elliot's face and cuts back to the loft,

where Lee, having finished the poem, sits up in the bed,

staring pensively, lost in her thoughts.

Upbeat jazz begins to play and the film cuts to:

The facade of Mount Sinai Hospital.  It is day.  A few cars

whiz by as the film moves inside, to various scenes depicting

Mickey's comprehensive exam.

First is a hearing test, and the movie cuts to a darkened

hearing-test room.  A light goes on, revealing a slouched-

over Mickey sitting in a glass booth.  He is wearing a set

of headphones.  The camera moves back, revealing a technician

at the console on the other side of the booth.  Mickey

signals with his finger when he hears a sound on his headset.

The jazz continues.

Next is an electronystagmography (ENG).  Graph paper rolls

out of a machine, and after a brief glimpse of the rolling

paper, the camera moves over to show Mickey lying terrified,

without his glasses, on a couch, with electrodes stuck all

over his head.

The film then cuts to a BSER test room, where Mickey,

sitting in a corner chair, wears another set of headphones.

An electrode is attached to his forehead; a nearby technician

sits at a computer video screen, looking at a monitoring

graph.

Last but not least is the tomography.  Over the shoulders of

a technician in a booth, a large window displays a huge,

white rotating machine.  It makes a whooshing noise as it

turns.  The camera moves down the giant cranelike device to

reveal Mickey, once again lying down, this time on a table,

his eyes closed, underneath it.

INT. DR. GREY'S OFFICE - DAY

A sitting Dr. Grey, his back to the camera, is examining a

group of X-rays clipped to the light board behind his desk.

The doctor turns his chair around to face a tense Mickey

sitting on the other side of his desk.

Mickey stares at the X-ray, horrified.

EXT. MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL - DAY

Mickey is seen leaving the hospital.  He strides slowly, his

shoulders slouched, his hands in his pockets.

His voice is heard over the screen as he crosses the street,

continuing his self-absorbed walk on the opposite side.

Occasional traffic goes by.

Mickey brushes against a heavyset man who gives him a nasty

look.  Mickey is so dazed, he doesn't even notice.

INT. MICKEY'S APARTMENT/BEDROOM LOFT - NIGHT

The dark bedroom is abruptly lit as Mickey, lying in his

bed, wakes up with a start and turns on his night-table lamp.

Mickey, still ruminating, stands up.  Fixing his pants, he

walks out of his bedroom loft into a dark upper hallway.

He walks down a spiral staircase into the dark living room.

The film cuts to a flashback of Mickey's past.  Dr. Smith,

sitting behind his desk, faces the camera.  Rows of

periodicals line the wall behind him.

The camera moves to Dr. Smith's point of view: Hannah and

Mickey, sitting on the opposite side of the desk.  They look

stunned.

The camera moves back to the stunned Mickey and Hannah,

following Dr. Smith with their eyes.

Dr. Smith walks back to his high-backed leather chair behind

the desk and sits down.  As he talks, the camera moves

closer and closer to his face.

EXT. GROVE STREET IN GREENWICH VILLAGE - DAY

Mickey and Hannah walk on the sidewalk, oblivious of the

passing pedestrians.  Hannah, crying, blows her nose.

Hannah sobs, clutching her tissue to her face.

Deep in conversation, they cross a tree-lined street.  They

pass a yellow wood-frame house bordered by a wrought-iron

fence.

They walk offscreen and the film cuts to Hannah and Mickey's

living room.  The room is brightly lit; it's cluttered with

pillows and plants.  Norman and Carol, his wife, sit on the

couch drinking coffee.

Mickey walks from the kitchen into the living room, holding

a half-eaten chocolate cake on a serving plate.  The sun

pours through the windows he passes.  Hannah is briefly seen

in the background, preparing more coffee in the kitchen.

Mickey puts the cake down on the coffee table, which is

already crowded with assorted plants, plates, and a bamboo

tray holding utensils and napkins.

Mickey sighs and flops down on an adjoining couch.  He rubs

his forehead.

Norman chuckles.

Hannah walks over to the group, holding a pot of coffee.

She awkwardly steps past Mickey to pour coffee for Norman

and Carol.

Hannah refills Carol's cup.  She puts the pot down on the

coffee table and sits down next to Mickey.

He starts to pace.  Hannah, her hands clasped near her face,

glances briefly at Carol.

Hannah sighs.  Mickey pauses for a moment, collecting his

thoughts.

Mickey stops his pacing and looks at the group.

He starts to pace behind the couch anew.

Norman and Carol remain silent.

Mickey stops pacing and leans on the couch behind Norman.

Mickey, rubbing his hands on his knees, leans back against

the wall.  Norman and Carol turn to each other, reacting.

Carol glances at Norman.

She chuckles nervously.

He takes a sip of coffee.

Hannah reaches for the cake as Carol and Norman exchange

glances, reacting.

The flashback ends.  Mickey is back in the present in his

darkened living room, illuminated by a glow from a window

behind the couch.  A coffee table sits in front of the couch.

Papers are scattered on the floor.  Mickey gets up from the

couch where he'd been sitting.  He paces back and forth as

he talks over the screen.

INT. METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT

Manon Lescaut is being performed.  Onstage, the soprano in

the title role sings a mournful aria as she kneels by the

ruins of a wagon.  The background is dark.  The film moves

up to the private boxes in the upper loge.  David and Holly

can be seen from a distance sitting in one of the boxes.

David glances at her; he reaches down for a bottle of wine.

The movie briefly cuts back to the stage.  The soprano is

leaning on a wagon wheel; her voice soars.  Then it's back

to a closer look at Holly and David in their box.  The aria

continues as David hands a smiling Holly a glass.  He

uncorks the wine and pours some in both their glasses.

Holly mouths a thank you, glancing around.  They look at

each other and raise their glasses in a toast.

The opera audience is heard cheering, applauding, and

sounding their "Bravos."

The clapping stops as the movie cuts to Frederick's loft.

It is day.  Lee, wearing a baggy plaid shirt and jeans, has

opened the door for Elliot and his client, wealthy rock star

Dusty Frye.

Lee closes the door behind the men and walks over to Dusty.

Lee chuckles as she looks at him; he is wearing sunglasses,

a red-imprinted T-shirt, and a baggy coat.  She turns and

walks with Frederick, Elliot, and Dusty farther into the

loft, her hands clasped behind her back.

They walk into the living room area of the loft, where

Frederick, his hands in his pockets, neatly attired in vest

sweater and white shirt, stands, waiting.

Frederick covers his face to hide his disgust.

As Dusty talks, the camera follows Elliot, who walks past

the others to examine the drawings more closely.  Two framed

nude drawings of Lee are propped up on an easel.  Elliot

glances admiringly at the drawings, then surreptitiously at

Lee, admiring her body as she converses with an offscreen

Dusty and Frederick.

The camera leaves Elliot to follow the enthusiastic Lee as

she takes Dusty by the arm and starts leading him to the

door.  Frederick follows at a distance.

The camera now moves back to Elliot, still staring at the

nude drawings, as the sounds of Frederick's and Dusty's

footsteps are heard leaving the loft.  He turns and

hesitantly smiles to an offscreen Lee.

He laughs.  Lee, uneasy, looks down.

There's an awkward moment of silence.

The camera follows Lee as she walks quickly to the stereo

unit, pulling a record off the shelf.

She pulls the record out of its jacket and puts it on the

turntable.

Bach's Concerto for Harpsichord fills the room.

The record in place, Lee turns and leans back against the

stereo unit.  She listens to the music, her eyes closed.

The record plays for a few moments in the quiet room, as

Elliot walks over to Lee and leans against the shelf near her.

Lee, smiling, continues to listen to the music, her head

down; Elliot stares at her.

Elliot nods.

There is another moment of silence.  Elliot stares at Lee,

who continues to look down, her arms around her chest.  The

harpsichord plays on.

Lee looks down again; the music plays softly and Elliot

continues to stare at her, thinking.

As Elliot's thoughts are heard over the scene, Lee glances

around the loft, then begins to walk away.  The camera

follows her as she goes past the nude drawings, which become

the focus of attention as Lee walks offscreen.

Lee walks back onscreen, to the bookshelf behind the drawings.

She takes the e.e. cummings book from the shelf and flips

through it as she walks back to Elliot, who is still leaning

by the stereo, still ruminating.

Elliot leaps up, grabs Lee, and kisses her passionately.

Lee, surprised, pushes him away.

He kisses Lee again.  He clumsily turns around; she humps

against the stereo unit.  As Lee pulls away, she smashes

into the turntable.  The needle scratches loudly.  Lee,

shocked, is gasping.  The record, pushed to a different part

of the concerto, now plays a more complicated, faster fugue.

Lee stares at Elliot in shock.

Frederick and Dusty's indistinct voices, raised in argument,

are suddenly heard.  Elliot quickly turns away from Lee.

She tries to compose herself and the film cuts to the loft

entranceway.  Frederick enters the loft first, followed by a

confused Dusty.  They stride across the loft past Lee, who

is standing by the stereo.  Elliot, standing near the nude

drawings, is looking through a book.

The film moves outside the loft building.  Dusty and Elliot

emerge and walk to Dusty's waiting limousine.  Elliot is

rubbing his forehead, anguished.

Dusty settles down in the backseat and closes the door.

Elliot leans down to the chauffeur's window, signaling for

him to start driving.

The limousine drives off.  Elliot runs to a phone booth

across the street.  He picks up the phone and dials.

The film cuts to Frederick in his loft, standing near the

phone.  It rings.  Frederick picks it up.

When no one answers, Frederick, reacting, hangs up, and the

film moves back outside to the phone booth, where Elliot,

the phone receiver to his ear, listens for a moment, then

hangs up.  He walks out of the booth, reacting, then walks

down the sidewalk, where he bumps into a frantic Lee, just

turning the corner.

Elliot mumbles, relieved and confused.

Elliot, uneasy, glances up in the direction of Frederick's

loft.  He leads Lee a few yards up the street, away from any

prying eyes.

She sighs.

Lee looks at him.

She sighs.

She walks off.  Elliot stares after her, grinning.

He laughs.

EXT. STREET CORNER OUTSIDE EVAN AND NORMA'S APARTMENT

BUILDING - DAY

A taxi turns a West Side street corner and stops in front of

Evan and Norma's building, which is decorated with a long

metal awning.  It's an overcast day.

A station wagon on the opposite side of the street pulls

away as Hannah, a white scarf fluttering over her shoulder,

gets out of the cab.  She runs into the building; the taxi

drives away.  A piano plays "Bewitched" over the screen.

INT. EVAN AND NORMA'S APARTMENT - DAY

Evan, his back to the camera, walks to the front door and

opens it to Hannah.

Hannah takes off her shoulder bag and her coat as her

aggravated father walks past her towards the kitchen.  He

passes a wall with an ornate mirror and some framed

photographs.

Through a doorway, Norma can be seen sitting on a chair in

the kitchen.  She wears a robe over a slip and stockings;

she's drinking.  Evan stands in the doorway looking at her;

he doesn't go in.

Hannah hurriedly passes her father and enters the kitchen;

her mother takes a sip of her drink.

Norma reacts, turning to her daughter.  Hannah, however, has

her back turned.  She is busy taking charge in the kitchen

as Evan speaks.  She takes some pills out of a cupboard and

hands them to her mother with a glass of water.

The camera moves to Evan, who continues to tell his story,

ignoring his wife's outburst, as he walks away from the

kitchen doorway into the den.

Evan walks over to the piano, where several framed family

photographs sit in a line on its top.  He picks one up as

Norma speaks offscreen in the kitchen.

The camera moves back to the kitchen as Norma talks.  She is

still glaring offscreen at the doorway where Evan stood

moments before.  She holds the water glass and the pills.

Evan is back in the doorway, listening to Norma, getting

more and more angry.  As he makes a retort, he starts to

walk back to the den and his piano.

Hannah goes back to Norma; she takes the glass of water away.

Hannah, choosing to ignore Evan's remark, hands her mother a

cup of coffee; she puts her mother's hands on the cup.

Norma sips her coffee, softly sobbing.  Hannah, reacting,

walks away from the counter and, capping the bottle of

pills, puts them back in the cupboard.  Evan plays the piano

offscreen.  The camera moves in on Hannah's face as she

reflects, her voice heard over the screen.

The camera leaves Hannah's face as she continues to reflect;

it moves to the den, to the row of family photos on the

piano: one of a present-day Evan and Norma, others where

both Norma and Evan are young, beautiful, hopeful.  The

music plays on.

The film cuts back to the kitchen.  Norma stands up; Hannah

takes her coffee cup and sets it on the counter.

She puts her arm around Hannah's shoulder.  Mother and

daughter walk out of the kitchen.

Norma chuckles.

They stop at the entrance to the den.  Evan can be seen

playing the piano as they continue their conversation.

Norma chortles.  Hannah laughs, touching her mother.  They

walk over to Evan at the piano.

Evan plays a few bars of "You Are Too Beautiful" as mother

and daughter, their backs to the camera, listen.  Norma

leans over the piano; Hannah looks off into the distance,

deep in reflection.  The piano music continues in the

background as the movie cuts to:

Lee walking along a wharf by the waterfront.  The wind blows

her hair; she hugs the e.e. cummings book to her chest.

She, too, is deep in thought.  She stops at the edge of the

wharf; the camera continues to move, to a group of wooden

pilings nearby, lapped by the water.

The piano piece ends and the film is quiet.

INT. HOSPITAL CAT-SCAN ROOM - DAY

The quiet continues as the film cuts to a close-up of a

large, circular CAT-scan module in an antiseptic hospital

room.  A slowly moving stretcher, bearing Mickey's strapped

prone body, begins to enter the round opening of the module.

As the camera pulls back from Mickey, his taped head under

the scan, two technicians can be seen through the window

separating the scanner from the control room.  One of them,

sitting down, taps information into a computer while the

other technician stands nearby, looking from Mickey to the

computer screen.

The movie then cuts briefly to the computer screen, showing

an image of Mickey's skull.  Scan lines bleep over the skull.

The camera moves up from the screen to reveal Mickey once

again, as seen through the window, silent and serious under

the CAT-scan module.

From Mickey's prone form, the film moves to the two

technicians, as seen through the window in the scanner room.

They examine the computer screen and talk indistinctly to

each other.  One of the men, nodding, taps more information

into the computer.

While they're studying the CAT-scan picture, the camera cuts

to a back view of Mickey under the module.  There is a

science-fiction feel to this scene, as if Mickey is lying in

the center of a huge, white, futuristic circle.  The

stretcher, bearing Mickey, slowly moves out of the module.

INT. DR. BROOK'S OFFICE - DAY

Dr. Brooks, holding Mickey's X-rays, walks past a row of

bookshelves to his light panel.  He props up the X-rays.

Dr. Brooks turns to an offscreen Mickey.

The film quickly cuts to a close-up of Mickey's face,

reacting in total despair.  He closes his eyes; he covers

his face with his hand.

As Mickey finishes his speech, the "real" Dr. Brooks is seen

walking into the office.  The previous scene had been a

figment of Mickey's imagination, a nightmare fantasy only.

Holding Mickey's X-rays, the "real" Dr. Brooks walks past

the same row of books to the light panel.

EXT. MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL - DAY

Once again, Mickey is seen leaving the building, but this

time he bounds down the steps, jumping for joy.  He runs

swirling down the street, clapping his hands, happy with

relief.  Upbeat, uptempo jazz plays in the background.

Several cars pass as Mickey joyfully runs.  Suddenly he

stops, his hand to his mouth, reflecting.

INT. MICKEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Gail sits in a chair in front of a bookshelf.  A sofa, a

coffee table holding periodicals, and an endtable with a

lamp complete the tableau.  Gail's hands are clasped on her

lap.

Mickey, standing behind his desk, his back to the camera,

his coat still on, looks out at the Manhattan skyline.

Gail gets up from her chair.  She walks past Mickey to a

nearby cabinet.  She opens a drawer, rummaging around for

something.  The camera follows her, leaving Mickey briefly.

As Mickey continues to talk offscreen, Gail closes the

cabinet drawer and walks to a file cabinet behind Mickey's

desk.

Gail opens the file cabinet and takes out a pack of gum.

She slams it closed, distracted.

Gail sighs.  She pops a piece of gum into her mouth as

Mickey continues to speak.

Mickey sighs.

The entrance to the St. Regis Hotel, elegant and warmly lit

in the night.  Pedestrians pass.  Baroque harpsichord music

plays over the scene.  The camera moves up the hotel's

facade, past its welcoming flags, to its ornate windows

several floors up.

As the harpsichord continues to play, the film moves inside,

to one of the hotel rooms.  Elliot, his back to the camera,

is opening the door to Lee.

Elliot closes the door behind her as she enters.  They stand

very close to each other, framed by the door and a stark,

subtly striped wallpapered wall.

They walk towards the camera, further into the room.  Elliot

puts his arm around Lee.

The music stops.  The camera follows Lee as she walks

towards the curtained windows, past a fireplace, a mirror,

some innocuous pictures, a delicate table holding a lamp,

the foot of the bed.

She parts a corner of the curtains, looking out the window,

turning when Elliot speaks.

He walks over to Lee by the curtained windows.

He takes Lee into his arms.

They kiss, their figures almost silhouetted in the warm glow

of the room.  Elliot takes Lee's coat off without breaking

the kiss.  They embrace.  They kiss each other lightly, then

stronger, more passionately, their embrace much tighter.

And it's later that night.  The harpsichord music begins to

play again as the camera moves over the bed covers to reveal

Lee, lying contentedly under the sheets, her hair fanned out

on the pillows, one arm near her head.

He enters the screen, sitting down on the edge of the bed

next to Lee.  He holds a cigarette.

Elliot chuckles; they hold hands.

Elliot leans down to Lee; they begin to kiss passionately.

EXT. STREET OUTSIDE FREDERICK'S LOFT - NIGHT

Lee walks along the sidewalk in the rain; she's bareheaded.

The streets are dark.  A car drives by; a pedestrian passes

holding an umbrella.  Lee passes a restaurant well lit

inside by hanging lamps.  The baroque music continues as she

enters the loft, her head soaked.  She closes the door,

touching her soaking hair.

Lee walks through the loft's living room area, unbelting her

coat, towards the bathroom.  She passes Frederick, who sits

at a table in the kitchen area, drinking a cup of coffee and

reading the paper.  A plate with a half-eaten sandwich sits

in front of him.  The music stops.

As he talks, Lee is seen turning on the bathroom light.  She

takes off her coat, hanging it on a hook, then begins to dry

her hair with a towel.

Frederick takes a bite of his sandwich and another sip of

coffee as Lee walks out of the bathroom, tossing the towel

down on the counter.

She takes a kettle and fills it with water.

As Frederick continues his monologue, Lee is busy in the

background: striking a wooden match and lighting a burner on

the stove for the kettle, taking a glass out of the cupboard,

walking into the bathroom for some pills, filling the glass

with water in the kitchen sink, and taking her pills.

He takes a bite of his sandwich and a sip of coffee.  Lee

sets her glass on the kitchen counter and walks towards the

bedroom area.

She starts to take off her wet clothes by the bed.  Frederick

takes off his glasses.  He turns and looks at Lee in surprise.

He pulls Lee down next to him on the bed.

She sighs.

Lee runs into the kitchen, her hands tight around her chest.

Lee, fraught with emotion, briefly puts her outstretched

hands on the refrigerator door, then turns around and leans

against it, hugging herself, her blouse still unbuttoned,

her hair still wet and bedraggled.

Frederick enters the kitchen area and leans against the

counter.

Frederick cringes, reacting.  He puts his hand to his

forehead; he sighs.

Lee turns and faces Frederick in the bathroom doorway.

Frederick furiously shakes Lee away.  He pounds his fist

against a cupboard.  Lee, gasping, moves away.

He puts his hand on his forehead, then turns to the offscreen

Lee.

He walks over to Lee in another area of the kitchen.

Frederick turns away from Lee.  He begins to pace near the

counter.

He loudly pounds his fist on the counter in despair and

frustration, then covers his eyes with his hands in sorrow.

INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Hannah, wearing a plaid shirt, sits up in bed, a book

propped up on her knees.  A cupboard with some bric-a-brac

is mounted behind the night table, which holds a small,

white, warm-glowing lamp and some photographs.  She turns

the page as Elliot, in pajamas and silk bathrobe, enters.

She continues to read her book as he sits down at the edge

of the bed and muses.  His voice is heard over the screen.

Elliot frantically stands up and leaves the room.

Elliot walks quickly into the darkened hallway.

Elliot switches on the light.  He paces back and forth in

front of the piano and an accompanying music stand.  The top

of the piano is filled with family photos; the lamp he

turned on illuminates some framed pictures on the wall and

the piece of sheet music open on the piano.

Elliot stops pacing and checks his wristwatch.

The phone rings.  Elliot jumps.

The movie cuts to Lee, standing in the dark in Frederick's

loft.  She talks softly into the telephone.

Lee hangs up the phone and the movie cuts back to Elliot,

standing in his living room.  Stunned, he slowly lowers the

phone receiver.

Jazz is heard as the movie cuts to the outside of a

university library, the camera focused on a huge replica of

Rodin's Thinker before moving to the front entrance.  Mickey

can be seen emerging from its depths.  He wears his raincoat,

his hands are in his pockets.  He ponders the scene as he

walks past the statue and a small front garden and down the

sidewalk.  Passersby, some holding books, are seen.

The movie next cuts to a sunny day in Central Park.  A male

jogger, seen through some tree branches, runs by.  The

camera moves past him, revealing a pondering Mickey walking

by the reservoir.  He continues to talk over the screen.

Several joggers pass Mickey; he continues to ruminate.

Mickey goes over to the chain-link fence encircling the

reservoir.  He stops walking and looks out over the water.

Mickey continues to look through the fence at the water and

the distant skyline.  A jogger crosses in front of him.

It's very quiet; the soft jazz continues.

The film cuts abruptly to Mickey's flashback of his date

with Holly, beginning with a rock club performance.  The

soft jazz becomes loud, pulsating rock.  Three punkers--a

girl with pink hair, a girl with a spiked mohawk, and a guy

with Stevie Wonder braids and sunglasses--watch and bop

their heads to the sounds of the offscreen rock band, The 39

Steps.

The camera moves to the stage, revealing a sleazy-looking

rock band in the midst of their number.

As the band loudly plays on, the camera moves across the

spellbound audience, sitting at crowded, smoky, small

tables, to reveal a stricken Mickey and a mesmerized Holly

squeezed together at one of them.  A nearby member of the

audience swills beer from a bottle.  Holly, beating time to

the music and enjoying herself, takes a puff of her cigarette.

She wears a wristful of silver bracelets.  She glances at

Mickey impatiently.  He's the only one in the place wearing

a suit.

Holly turns back to the band, who are still in full swing.

The camera moves down the body of the lead singer, singing

into a microphone, from his longish, curly red hair, through

his cut-off red shirt and sweaty torso, to his guitar.  He

wears several silver bracelets on his wrists and gold

bracelets on his upper arm.  The microphone screeches

feedback.

The camera moves back to Holly and the even more stricken-

looking Mickey.  They are crowded in with people.  In the

background, a waitress holds up a tray.  A man drinks from a

glass mug; people chatter indistinctly over the loud band.

The club is noisy, smoky, and thick with people.  Holly

glances at Mickey once again, this time unable to contain

her annoyance.

She opens a vial of cocaine.

Holly holds a short metal straw of cocaine to her nose and

sniffs it.

While Mickey pleads with her, Holly puts her cocaine vial

into her purse.  She holds a finger against one nostril and

sniffs.  She then picks up her lit cigarette and continues

to smoke.

The camera leaves the crowded tables and moves back to the

band.  The lead singers continues to sing with his band,

swaying his body to the music...

...as the film cuts abruptly to outside the rock club.  The

music has stopped.  Mickey and Holly, almost in dark

silhouette, are walking at a fast clip along the sidewalk,

arguing.  They pass some lighted clothing store windows; a

few cars go by in the dark street.

They stop briefly at a street corner and look for oncoming

cars before crossing.  Mickey takes Holly's arm as they walk

across the street towards the camera.

INT. THE CARLYLE CLUB - NIGHT

Bobby Short is playing "I'm In Love Again" on the piano,

accompanied by a bass player.  An Art Deco mural fills the

wall behind him...

...as the camera leaves the musicians and moves to the

conversatively dressed audience.  A far cry from the rock

club atmosphere, the Carlyle is quiet except for Bobby

Short's singing.  The audience at their tables watch him,

some with smiles of pleasure.  A man has his arm around a

woman.  Jewels sparkle in another woman's hair.  The men

wear suits.

Mickey and Holly sit at one of the tables; a candle burns in

its holder on the tabletop.  Holly takes a cigarette from

her purse as she holds her hand to her nose, sniffing.

Mickey keeps shooting glances at Holly; she can't sit still.

Bobby Short continues to sing...

...as Holly lights her cigarette, dropping her matchbook on

the floor.  She bends down to pick it up, then starts to

fidget in her chair.  She gulps her wine; she sniffs.

Mickey tries to watch the offscreen Bobby Short; he crosses

his arms across his chest.

The film cuts back briefly to Bobby Short playing the piano...

...then abruptly cuts to:

EXT. THE CARLYLE HOTEL - NIGHT

A taxi pulls away from the curb as Mickey and Holly walk out

of the hotel through its revolving doors.  Holly stays under

the awning; Mickey walks to the curb and looks angrily back

at her.  People pass by as Mickey walks back and forth from

the curb to Holly, growing angrier and angrier.

A taxi pulls up to the curb.  Mickey and Holly walk up to

its rear door.

He holds the door open for Holly.  She gets in.

Holly slams the door.  Mickey starts to walk along the

sidewalk as the taxi drives off; he passes the hotel and

several evening-lit store windows. "I'm In Love Again"

begins to play in the background as Mickey's voice is heard.

Both a bus and a taxi drive down the street, blocking Mickey

from view.  The music stops and the film cuts to:

A big-band rendition of "You Made Me Love You" begins as the

film cuts to a hotel room.  Elliot and Lee can be seen

dancing cheek to cheek in the reflection of a mirror over a

dresser.  A TV sits in the corner.  A lamp is on one side of

the dresser; on the other side is a bucket with champagne.

Two half-full glasses sit nearby.  Elliot and Lee dance into

view.  Without missing a beat, Elliot picks up one of the

glasses of champagne and hands it to Lee.  She sips.  Elliot

sips, then puts it back down on the dresser.  They embrace

tightly, continuing to dance.

INT. HANNAH'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Elliot, Hannah, and the twins sit at the dining room table.

A Christmas tree stands in the corner of the room, next to a

table holding a lamp; a picture hangs on the wall.  The

family has just finished eating; the table is cluttered with

the remains of dinner, including a quart of milk, some

chocolate syrup, and a bottle of ketchup.  Hannah's two

adopted children stand by her chair; she is showing them how

a small camera works.  The children watch her, fascinated,

muttering among themselves.  Elliot looks listless.  He

stares blankly at the table.

The child takes the camera from Hannah, as well as picking

up a second identical one from the table.

The adopted children leave, the twins going off with them.

When they're gone, Hannah takes a sip of her coffee and

looks at Elliot.  She puts down her cup, still watching him.

The camera moves in on their faces as they continue to speak.

Family photos line the mantel behind Hannah's head.

Hannah sighs.  Elliot angrily throws his napkin on the table.

He stands up and begins to pace behind Hannah.

He sits down again, in a chair next to Hannah; the ketchup

bottle sits in front of him.

The camera moves in on Elliot's anguished face.  He talks

over the screen.

He looks down.  Hannah leans over and tenderly puts her hand

on his shoulder.

She touches his hand; Elliot embraces her.

Elliot kisses Hannah again; they embrace tightly.  She

touches his hair.

There is no music.

INT. SOHO CLOTHING BOUTIQUE - DAY

The screen shows a metal staircase next to a large white

column.  Holly's voice can be heard as she and Hannah make

their way up the stairs, moving into view.  A man carrying a

shopping bag walks down the steps; he passes them.  Hannah

and Holly talk as they climb.

Hannah and Holly reach the top of the stairs.  They walk

onto a cavernous, high-tech floor.  Empty bleachers line one

wall; the rest of the floor is filled with racks of clothes

and empty space.

Holly follows Hannah to a rack of blouses.

Holly continues to talk as she follows Hannah across the

floor to a rack of dresses.  Hannah's on one side, flipping

through the hangers.  Holly, on the other side of the same

rack, talks to her sister, not looking at the clothes.

Hannah takes a jacket on a hanger off the rack and looks at

it.  She holds it to her.

Hannah turns to Holly with surprise.  She puts the jacket

back on the rack and stares at her; she inhales.

Hannah begins to look at the rack of clothes on Holly's

side, while her sister stares at her, frowning.

Holly is silent for a moment.  Hannah takes a blouse off the

rack and looks at it.

The two sisters walk away from the rack, Hannah slightly in

the lead.  Behind them are some more racks of clothing and a

large window with closed venetian blinds.

Holly pauses, looking at her sister.  They continue to walk.

They walk over to a table laid out with colorful scarves and

decorated with hurricane lamps bordering its edges.

Holly looks at her sister for a beat.

A female customer, who'd come over to the table, browsing

through the rack of clothes near Hannah, looks up, reacting.

She walks away.

She walks past Holly and briefly looks at a different rack

of clothes beneath the table.

She walks offscreen to a nearby rack; the camera remains

focused on Holly.

Holly chuckles and begins to look through the scarves on the

table.

INT. THEATER - DAY

A group of theater executives, including the producer, the

director, and two assistants, sit in a cluster in the empty

audience, talking; they look up at the offscreen Holly, who

is auditioning on the stage.  She is singing "I'm Old-

Fashioned," accompanied by a piano.

The film moves from the audience to the stage where Holly,

her hands clasped in front of her, continues to sing her

song.  A large group of other hopefuls are seen in the

background behind her.

The camera moves from Holly back to the executives in the

audience.  As it passes the empty audience seats, they are

heard offscreen.

The camera has reached the executives in the audience.  They

are now chattering among themselves, Holly forgotten.

The film cuts back to the stage, where April, handling the

audition pianist some sheet music, prepares herself to sing

"The Way You Look Tonight." The stage is very black, stark,

except for April and the pianist.

EXT. A STREET OUTSIDE THE THEATER - DAY

A theater marquee can be seen on the busy street as Holly

and April walk down the street towards the camera, moving

closer and closer as they talk.  Workmen and various street

noises can be heard indistinctly in the background.

Holly looks away sadly; she shakes her head.

The film cuts to Father Flynn's rectory office.  The Catholic

priest looks out a simple stained-glass window, then turns

to an offscreen Mickey.

The camera moves back to reveal Mickey, his back to the

camera, sitting in front of Father Flynn's desk.  A lamp is

lit in the background; the Father's desk is neat.  The room

is comfortably decorated in wood and leather.

The movie cuts to Mickey's face.  He's very neat in a tie,

sweater, and sports jacket.

The camera cuts back to Father Flynn, who walks over to a

leather armchair next to a table set for tea.  He begins to

pour the tea into china cups.

Father Flynn clasps his hands in his lap.

The film abruptly cuts to the long hallway in Mickey's

parents' apartment.

In the foreground, a section of the living room can be seen,

with a bureau holding a lamp and a framed photo.  The

hallway itself is crowded with pictures and a wall shelf.

At the other end of the hallway, in the background, is

another bureau, with candlesticks on top and a framed

picture on the wall above.  Mickey's mother stands in the

front of this bureau at the hallway's end, screaming at the

top of her lungs, holding her heart dramatically.

She sobs hysterically, staggering offscreen to the bathroom;

she shuts the door.  Mickey walks into view, in the living

room, looking after his shocked mother, who continues to cry

over the scene.

His father walks into view, carrying a teacup and a candy

dish.  He strides past Mickey towards the kitchen.

Mickey's father walks into view; he stands by the stove near

the kitchen doorway, picking up a dirty glass and some bowls

to clean.

Holding the dirty dishes in his hand, Mickey's father looks

at his son.

Mickey's father walks offscreen again, to the kitchen sink.

Mickey's father walks out of the kitchen, past his son, to

the living room.

Mickey stops at the bathroom door at the other end of the

hallway.  He starts to pound it.

Mickey's father comes back on screen; he's carrying a plate

of hors d'oeuvres and an empty glass towards the kitchen.

He stops and looks down the hall at Mickey, who's now

struggling to open the bathroom door.

Mickey, reacting, hits his forehead.

Mickey starts pounding the door again as the movie cuts to:

A beautiful snow-covered church downtown, complete with

courtyard and wrought-iron fence.  A pedestrian walks by

with an umbrella.  A church choir sings a soaring hymn over

the scene.

The music continues as the film moves inside, where the

choir is seen singing behind an altar glowing warm gold.  A

fairly large congregation sits in darkened pews as the film

cuts to the back, where Mickey, his arms crossed, stands

underneath some stained-glass windows, watching and listening

to the inspiring music.

The choir continues to sing as the movie cuts to Father

Flynn in his office.

He picks up some large, heavy books from a shelf near his

window and he walks over to Mickey, who's standing near his

desk, already holding several tomes.  Father Flynn puts the

books on top of Mickey's pile; Mickey, flipping through the

top one, awkwardly carries his bundle to the door.

Next is seen a close-up of a painting of Jesus Christ on the

cross, complete with crown of thorns and holy expression.

His eyes, especially designed to blink as the lights hit

them, open and close repeatedly.  The hymn plays on, loudly,

as the camera moves back, revealing Mickey, standing outside

a barber shop window, looking at the Christ playing and

shuffling from side to side to gets its eyes' 3-D effect.

Smaller inspirational pictures border the bigger, blinking

Christ.  A barber pole with moving stripes stands nearby;

passing traffic is reflected in the window.

Mickey turns from the window, shrugging, and starts to walk

down the street, past a fruit and vegetable store with open-

air-displayed flowers, past several briskly moving

pedestrians.

With the hymn still playing, the screen goes black briefly.

Mickey opens the door, the light from a hallway illuminating

him.  He's just entered his apartment.  He closes the door

and walks through his dark foyer; he carries a brown bag.

He switches on the light, and walking past his spiral

staircase, past several framed pictures on the wall, he

makes his way to his living room coffee table.  Mickey pulls

a crucifix out of the bag; he looks at it, then puts it on

the table near a pile of books and some objets d'art.  He

then takes out a copy of the New Testament, putting it on

top of the crucifix.  Then out comes a framed picture of a

saint.  It too gets put on the growing pile.  But the bag is

not yet empty.  Next comes a large loaf of Wonder Bread and

a large jar of Hellman's mayonnaise.  Mickey sets them on

top of the saint.

EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET - DAY

Lee is walking down the street, looking around her.  The

sidewalk is fairly crowded with people; the sounds of

traffic are heard.  She passes some office buildings, a

store's large display window; she stops when she sees Hannah.

Her sister is waiting outside the Art Deco facade of a

restaurant; she's looking in the opposite direction.  Lee

taps Hannah on the shoulder; Hannah, surprised, turns and

gasps.

The sisters laugh and embrace each other.

She turns and walks towards the restaurant entrance.

They disappear inside.  The camera follows them, cutting to

the restaurant's interior at the same time the sisters walk

in.  It's a chic, trendy place, with an Art Deco design and

high ceilings.  A waiter in uniform stands near its glass

and metal doors, holding a tray to his chest; a few people

sit at the bar; a large plant in a vase sits in the

foreground.  The sisters walk toward the coatcheck area,

deep in conversation.

Hannah walks offscreen, farther into the coatcheck room.

She talks offscreen as Lee alone is seen, reacting and

speaking as well.  In the background, a waiter crosses over

to the bar, then walks away.

Hannah walks out of the coatcheck room without her coat;

it's Lee's turn to disappear and check her things.  Now only

Hannah can be seen onscreen as the sisters talk.  In the

background, the waiter once again walks over to the bar.

As Hannah answers her sister, Holly can be seen entering the

restaurant and walking over to the coatcheck area, an unlit

cigarette in her mouth, her sunglasses still on her eyes.

Hannah mumbles indistinctly as Holly walks over to her

sisters.

She takes off her gloves and scarf, stuffing them in her bag)

Holly gives her coat to the coatcheck person.

The hostess appears, peeking around the corner of the

coatcheck area.  She signals for the three sisters to follow

her.

Holly takes off her sunglasses; her cigarette still dangles

from her mouth.  Hannah murmurs her sympathy as the trio

follows the hostess into the dining room.

The sisters walk to their seats, at a round table in the

middle of the room; the hostess puts down their menus.

They sit down.  The hostess leaves.  Other diners are seen

in the background; a waiter is taking the order of a couple

sitting on a banquette; other waiters clear off a table.

Diners walk in and out.  A low murmur of conversation, as

well as the faint clatter of dishes, is heard.  The camera

moves closer to the three sisters, circling the table as

Holly speaks.

As the camera slowly circles the table, Hannah is seen

listening to Holly, her hand on her mouth.

Lee, her hand on her mouth, glances briefly at Hannah.  As

Hannah replies to Holly, the camera focuses on Lee's face.

She bites her nails; she looks down, involved in her own

thoughts.

Lee looks up, her hand still on her mouth, watching Hannah,

as the camera slowly moves off her to show Hannah.

The camera is back on Lee.  She looks around tensely, barely

listening to the conversation.  She fidgets.  An empty table

sits in the background.

Holly abruptly picks up her menu.

She puffs intensely on her cigarette as the camera slowly

circles to Hannah's face.  She is equally intense, looking

at both sisters as she speaks.

The camera, slowly circling the table, is back on Lee's face.

While her sisters argue emotionally on her right and left,

she is looking down, biting her lip.  She is outwardly

still, but her face is registering her seething emotions.

She opens her menu, then turns to Lee, reacting suddenly to

her sister, who is rubbing her forehead, looking terribly

upset.

A piano plays "Bewitched" in the background as the film cuts

to a large tree, covered with bright white blossoms.  The

camera moves down the tree to reveal a well-kept, red-brick

brownstone on a pleasant, sunny New York City street.  A man

wearing a summer suit walks by as the film moves inside the

building, to Elliot's analyst's office.  The psychotherapist

sits in a comfortable armchair next to a curtained window.

In front of the window sits a table covered with artifacts

and a large lamp.  The analyst's fingers are touching, his

arms resting on the chair, as he listens to the offscreen

Elliot.

The music stops as the camera moves across the room to

reveal Elliot, sitting in a wooden chair.  He holds a long,

thin cigarette; he wears a gold Rolex watch.  He face is not

yet seen.

Elliot raises his cigarette to take a drag.  The camera

follows the cigarette up to his face.  Elliot looks

thoughtful as the movie cuts to:

EXT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY CAMPUS - DAY

Lee, wearing jeans and carrying an armful of books, is

running up a broad set of steps in the sunlight, greeting

other students as she passes.  Elliot continues to talk over

the scene...

...as Lee stops on a portico and turns to greet Doug, a

professor, who is running over to her, calling her name.

They mouth hello, smiling, and begin to walk off together.

The film cuts back to Elliot in his analyst's office.

Elliot takes a last drag on his cigarette.  The camera

follows his hand as he crushes it out in a nearby ashtray.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

Hare Krishna music is heard over a sunlit view of the

Manhattan skyline and the green trees of Central Park.  The

camera moves down to reveal a large group of Hare Krishnas

dancing on the broad green lawn among other New Yorkers

enjoying the day.  The leader, holding some pamphlets,

stands by a chain-link fence, a few feet away from his

group, talking to someone on the other side.  It's Mickey,

as the camera soon shows, wearing a short-sleeved shirt, a

paper tucked under his arm.

Mickey walks off, the Hare Krishnas still dancing and

singing on the other side of the fence.  He flips through

the literature as he walks, then looks straight ahead,

pondering.  His voice is heard over the screen.

Mickey puts his hand to his mouth as another title appears

on a black screen.

Bach's Concerto for Harpsichord is heard as the film cuts to

the waterfront at dusk.  A bench faces some wharf pilings;

the water gently laps against them as Lee walks into view,

the wind blowing her hair.  She stands and faces the water

and the distant skyline across the bay.  The view is

contemplative, beautiful in the dim light.

Lee is alone; her hands are in her pockets.  Lee, thinking,

is heard over the scene; the harpsichord music plays in the

background.

The concerto stops and the movie cuts to Holly, leaning into

an open phone booth near a subway entrance.  She wears a

football jacket, jeans, and sneakers; she holds a manuscript

in her arms.  It's a busy corner.  People rush past Holly

towards the subway; others are walking up the station steps.

Holly smokes a cigarette as she talks on the phone to Hannah.

Holly hangs up the phone and takes a drag on her cigarette.

She looks off in the distance, smiling, as the film cuts to:

INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - THANKSGIVING - NIGHT

It's Thanksgiving at Hannah's once again.  Guests are

crowded together in the living room, surrounding the piano,

where Evan is sitting and flipping through some sheet music.

Norma stands behind him, leaning against a book-laden wall.

The guests are chattering, enjoying themselves; a lamp glows

on the corner of the piano.  A little boy sitting in a chair

next to Evan is talking animatedly with a girl who is

leaning over the arm of the sofa.  An adult guest talks to

the little boy; another guest takes a sip of wine from a

glass she'd placed on the bookshelf behind her as Evan turns

and addresses the group.

The guests laugh appreciatively.  A woman comes over to Evan

and hands him some wine.

He laughs; the guests laugh with him.

The guest continue to laugh; they are charmed.

Evan continues to laugh with everyone as he starts to play

the piano.  A nearby woman toasts him with her drink.  The

camera moves around the room as he plays, showing the

various guests, chattering over the music.  Some are in

clusters, in private conversations; others listen and watch

the offscreen Evan.  A couple stands by the window; one man

gets up from his chair and walks away.  Some guests sip

their drinks, smiling, as the camera moves back to the piano

and the book-laden wall.  Evan is playing the piano with

exuberance.  Norma, still standing behind him, has a

poignant, wistful expression on her face.  She mouths the

words to the song Evan is playing, "It Could Happen to You."

The woman next to her smiles, enjoying the music, as the

camera continues its exploration, moving to a man standing

in the doorway with a group of children.  Mavis the maid

walks by with a tray of hors d'oeuvres.  The man takes one,

mouthing his thanks, as the camera travels past the open

bookshelf, past two boys in suits who are drinking soda and

munching, to reveal Lee.  She is leaning against another

doorway, a faraway look on her face as she listens to the

music.  Mavis passes in the hall beyond the doorway.  Several

people, deep in conversation, stand nearby as Elliot,

holding a drink, walks up behind her.

Lee slips past Elliot and walks away.  Elliot looks back at

her briefly, then, sipping his drink, he turns and looks

offscreen at the crowd in the living room.

INT. HANNAH'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Holly is standing in the pantry, preparing some offscreen

food.  Near her is a restaurantlike swinging door with a

glass porthole.  In the foreground, the kitchen table is

crowded with bowls and plates of food.  An open cupboard

separates Holly from the rest of the room.

Hannah walks into view, headed for the refrigerator.  She

carries two tomatoes.

Hannah opens the refrigerator, totally ignoring Holly.

Hannah walks over to the table, gathering up more food.

Holly walks over to the sink and washes her hands.

She dries her hands as Hannah, her arms laden with

vegetables, strides over to her sister.

Hannah storms out a nearby door as Holly turns away from the

sink.

Holly wipes her hand on the towel as Hannah reenters the

kitchen, carrying even more vegetables.

Hannah strides into the pantry area and flops the vegetables

down on the counter.  Holly puts the dishtowel down and

absently straightens some things on the food-laden table.

Hannah angrily gathers up some spices from the table; Holly

walks back onscreen holding a silver ice bucket.  She stops

at the corner of the table and faces Hannah.

Hannah picks up a large bowl and carries it, as well as her

armload of spices, into the pantry area.

Hannah, reacting, puts the spices down on the pantry counter.

Holly turns away.

The film cuts to the dining room doorway.  Guests can be

seen mingling and talking and helping themselves at a buffet

table in the living room.  Lee and Elliot can be heard

offscreen as the camera slowly moves from the doorway across

the empty dining room to reveal them in the midst of an

intense conversation.  The piano, as well as soft chatter,

is heard in the background.

Lee goes over to an open door and closes it quickly.

The door opens and Mavis appears, holding a set of

candlesticks.  She walks over to the dining room table,

which is already decked out with a floral centerpiece,

glassware, and china.  She puts them down as Lee and Elliot

stand awkwardly near the door, waiting for her to leave.

Mavis leaves.  Both Lee and Elliot quickly close the door

behind her and immediately pick up where they'd left off.

They look at each other, reacting, as the film cuts back to

Hannah's kitchen.  Norma's face can be seen in the porthole

window on the other side of the pantry's swinging door.  She

looks around the kitchen, then opens the door and steps

inside.  Holly stands nearby, working in the pantry area.

Holly chuckles.

Norma steps back out of the kitchen, the door swinging shut

behind her.  Holly looks at the door, sipping her wine, as

the movie cuts back to Hannah's living room.  A chubby,

friendly uncle sits on a sofa, one child on his lap and

several others gathered cross-legged around him on the floor.

They lean on the coffee table, which is covered with glasses

and a bowl of chips.  Other guests mingle in the background;

one couple enters the living room, smiling at the scene on

the sofa.  Mavis crosses the well-lit foyer in the background

and opens the door to more guests.  The piano plays on.

The children mutter their enthusiastic agreement, picking up

their "illicit" glasses of beer.

The uncle pours more beer from his bottle into the kids'

outstretched glasses.  They cry indistinctly with excitement.

Laughing, he turns to the little girl sitting on his lap; he

clinks his bottle against the bottle she is holding, which

is almost as big as she is.

The uncle and the children happily drink their beer as the

movie cuts to a wall with subtly patterned wallpaper in

Hannah's bedroom.  Her face moves on to the screen.

Hannah walks towards Elliot; he's in the bathroom standing

over the sink.

Elliot walks from behind the partially closed door to an

offscreen medicine cabinet.

Elliot turns back to the sink, once again obscured by the

partially closed door.

He dries his hands as Hannah, standing behind him, continues

to talk.

He closes the door, briefly obscuring Hannah and himself

from view.

The camera moves behind the closed door, into the bathroom.

He opens the medicine cabinet and puts the aspirin bottle

back.

Elliot slams the medicine cabinet shut.

He leaves.  Hannah watches him go, reacting.  She is stunned.

INT. HANNAH'S LIVING ROOM - ANOTHER NIGHT

The dark hallway is illuminated by light coming from the

offscreen foyer; pictures line the wall.  Piano music is

still heard very softly in the background as Hannah, hugging

herself, walks slowly down the hallway into the living room.

She briefly looks around, lost in thought.  She sits down

heavily, tiredly, on the arm of the couch as the movie cuts

to several framed photographs on the mantel.  One shows

Hannah and Elliot on their wedding day.  Another shows

Elliot, obscured in the shadows.  Yet another has captured

Norma as a young girl.  The camera, however, moves closer

and closer to a photograph showing Hannah, Lee, and Holly,

the three sisters, smiling into the camera.  There is no

sound.

INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The film shows the bedroom night table, holding a small

lamp, a wooden box, a cast-iron fire truck, an ashtray, and

glasses.  Elliot's pajama-clad arm moves into view.  He

turns off the lamp; the room is now pitch-black.

Elliot turns the lamp back on, then turns to Hannah; she is

lying on her side of the bed, partially in shadow.  He leans

over and kisses her.

They begin to kiss passionately as "Bewitched" starts to

play in the background.

"Bewitched" continues as the film cuts to a busy nighttime

New York City street.  Mickey, his hands in his pockets,

walks along the sidewalk, one person among many other

pedestrians.  He pulls his coat tighter around him as he

walks. "Bewitched" continues to play as he passes Tower

Records' neon-lit window.  He glances inside...and sees

Holly, her jacket flung over her shoulders, looking at some

records.

Mickey walks through the revolving doors of Tower Records,

up a few stairs to the selling floor proper, and stops right

in front of Holly.

Holly chuckles and turns to look at more records.  She walks

down the aisle, occasionally glancing at the bins of records.

Mickey walks beside her.

As Mickey continues to speak, Holly walks to another bin of

records, reacting to his words.  She looks offscreen at him,

then down at some records.  The camera follows her.

Mickey walks back onscreen to Holly.  The two of them are

partially obscured by a large white Jazz sign imprinted with

a large red circle as they continue their conversation.

They emerge from behind the Jazz sign, still walking, still

talking.

She picks up a record.

Mickey pulls out a record and looks at it.

Holly looks hopefully at Mickey.

Holly laughs, embarrassed, as Mickey puts the record he's

been looking at back in the bin.

Holly chuckles, looking off for a moment.

There is a brief pause and the movie cuts to:

INT. MICKEY'S APARTMENT - DAY

The screen shows a chaise in Mickey's apartment; an ashtray

on a stand sits nearby.  The camera moves down the chaise,

past several piles of books, to Mickey's coffee table.  He

sits, picking at his fingers and listening, on the edge of

the table in front of Holly, who is sitting cross-legged on

the floor, propped up with a pillow, reading her script aloud.

Holly closes the script and looks up at Mickey.

Mickey smiles and shrugs, not knowing what to say.

Holly, thrilled with Mickey's overwhelming response, stands

up, her hand on her head.

Unable to contain herself, she begins to walk up and down

the room, holding her script.  The camera follows her;

Mickey is now offscreen.

"You Made Me Love You" starts to play as the movie cuts to

the street outside Mickey's apartment house, an old building

complete with a red entrance door and a gray, weather-beaten

facade.  Trees line the sidewalk.  Holly and Mickey emerge

from the door and walk up the street, revealing a whole row

of similar apartment buildings.  They pass a few other

people as they walk.

The film then moves to the outside of a charming glass and

stainedwood cafe.  Through the window, Holly and Mickey can

be seen having lunch.  Holly is talking animatedly; Mickey

takes a sip of coffee.  Some people pass by.

Next, the film cuts to an almost isolated path in Central

Park, complete, with old-fashioned streetlamps and scattered

leaves.  Holly and Mickey stroll into view, deep in

conversation.

The film abruptly cuts to Mickey's flashback, a visual

counterpoint to the story he is telling Holly.  A close-up

of a nervous, perspiring, and panting Mickey alone in his

apartment appears on the screen as his voice is heard.

Mickey raises the barrel of a rifle to his forehead.  He

shuts his eyes tightly.

The camera moves past the desperate Mickey to a mirror on

the wall behind him.  Its reflection shows his spiral

staircase and some standing lamps.  A clock faintly ticks.

The gun goes off with a loud bang.  The mirror shatters.

Mickey, holding the rifle, is seen running over to the

shattered mirror.  The sounds of his excited neighbors,

their shouting, a knocking door, are heard as he continues

his tale.

Mickey, still brandishing the rifle, runs into his sunlit

living room.  He looks around frantically, his shirt loose.

Finally, he throws the rifle down between the sofa and the

coffee table.  The gun goes off a second time.  Mickey,

standing nearby, jumps, his hands flying to his head.  The

doorbell rings; the neighbors begin pounding at the door.

Mickey runs offscreen briefly to answer the door.

He returns onscreen, panting; he looks frantically once

again around the living room.

The film cuts to a West Side street.  It's an overcast day.

Mickey, walking slowly along the sidewalk, passes several

other pedestrians and numerous storefronts, including

Klein's Pharmacy and a "Bar-B-Q" take out.  Occasionally, he

is obscured by a tree trunk on the opposite side of the

street; a few taxis go by as he talks over the scene.

The movie cuts to the exterior of the Metro movie theater,

with its smoked glass entrance doors and its Art Deco feel.

An old publicity photo hangs inside.  Mickey's reflection is

seen at the almost-transparent doors, as well as the

reflection of the street and various cars whizzing by.  His

reflection walks towards the theater entrance; he continues

his story.

Mickey walks into the movie house.  He is seen through the

glass doors, which still reflect the street and traffic

outside.  He makes his way through the lobby into the actual

theater.

The film abruptly cuts to the theater's black-and-white

screen, where the Marx Brothers, in Duck Soup, play the

helmets of several soldiers standing in a line like a live

xylophone.  The sounds of the "xylophone" are heard as the

movie cuts to the darkened theater, where Mickey slowly sits

down in a balcony seat.  The "xylophone" music stops and

changes to "Hidee-hidee-hidee-hidee-hidee-hidee-ho" as sung

by the Marx Brothers and ensemble in the movie.  The singing

continues faintly in the background as Mickey continues his

tale:

The film cuts back to the black-and-white movie screen as

Mickey continues to talk.  The Marx Brothers, as well as the

hundred-odd other cast members in Duck Soup, are kneeling

and bowing as they sing "Hidee-hidee-ho." They kick their

heels up in the air.  They sway back and forth, hands

clasped, singing "Oh-h-h-h-h-h..."

The movie cuts back to Mickey, sitting almost obscured in

the dark theater.  The Oh-h-h-h-h-h's coming from the

offscreen movie are heard as he continues to speak.

As Mickey talks, the film cuts back to the antics of the

Marx Brothers on the black-and-white theater screen.  The

four brothers are now swaying and singing and strutting,

their voices indistinct over Mickey's narration.

The film is back on Mickey's dark form in the audience.

As Mickey continues, the film cuts back to Duck Soup on the

black-and-white screen.  The Marx Brothers are sitting on a

judge's bench, playing banjos and singing with the other

cast members.  They jump down from the bench, still singing.

Their voices swell.

The Marx Brothers kneel, strumming their banjos, and the

movie cuts back to Central Park.  The flashback is over.

Mickey and Holly continue their stroll as "You Made Me Love

You" begins to play in the background.  They pass some

people, a cluster of buildings that look like castles, and

the Manhattan skyline as seen through the trees, as the

camera moves back, farther and farther away from them,

showing a beautiful Central Park, frozen in time.

Holly laughs.

They stroll offscreen. "You Made Me Love You" grows louder

and the film cuts to:

INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - THANKSGIVING - NIGHT

A large, perfectly roasted turkey on a serving plate briefly

fills the screen as the camera moves across the food-laden

table in Hannah's kitchen, past an electric mixer, several

bowls, spices, tomatoes, and parsley, to reveal Evan walking

through the doorway.

The sounds of Thanksgiving guests in the other room are

dimly heard; "You Made Me Love You" continues softly in the

background.  Mavis passes the table, licking some food off

her hand.  Hannah, in the background, is busy by the stove.

As Mavis leaves the kitchen, Lee enters, carrying some empty

glasses.

Lee walks off, drying her wet hands in the air.  Hannah, in

a silk dress, moves onscreen, going to the table and pouring

herself a glass of wine as Norma enters the kitchen.

Norma walks over to a glass-doored cabinet and takes out a

bottle of gin.

Norma unscrews the liquor bottle and pours some into her

empty glass as Hannah stops her mashing, reacting.

The movie leaves the kitchen and cuts to the doorway between

the dining room and the living room.  Upbeat jazz plays over

the low din of the party.  Two women stand by the partially

set dining room table, chatting and arranging some plates,

as Elliot strolls into view, sipping a drink.  He passes the

women and walks through the doorway into the living room,

nodding hello to a guest who is walking the other way.

He enters the living room, smiling.  It is crowded with

guests; Hannah's children play in their midst.  One of

Hannah's boys grabs Elliot's arm.  They playfully "spar" for

a moment before Elliot laughingly shakes him off, continuing

on his way into a connecting room.  He stops at the doorway,

looking at the crowd.  The camera shows his point of view:

Guests stand in clusters, enjoying themselves; one woman

chats with a little boy; another woman, carrying a drink,

walks over to a group of other guests.

The film then cuts back briefly to Elliot, holding his drink

and looking straight ahead, as it shows his point of view

once more.  This time he sees a smiling Lee and Doug,

talking animatedly; a few guests are seen in the background.

Elliot's voice is heard over a close-up of the couple.

Lee and Doug kiss each other.  They continue talking.

As Lee takes a sip of her drink, the movie cuts back to

Elliot, standing in the doorway and still staring straight

ahead.  The camera moves in closer to his face as he talks

over the scene.

The film quickly cuts to a brief look at Lee and Doug, still

talking animatedly and smiling.  Lee gently pushes back

Doug's hair.

The camera moves back to Elliot.

After pausing for a moment on Elliot's face, the film cuts

to the foyer, where two boys and a girl gather by the door.

One boy opens it, revealing Holly.  She joyfully enters the

apartment, greeting each child with an enthusiastic kiss.

The jazz ends as the record scratches and stops.  Evan's

rendition of "Isn't It Romantic" is heard on the piano as

Holly, shrugging the strap of her pocketbook off her

shoulder, walks towards the living room.  She is stopped by

three guests--two women, one of them wearing glasses, and a

man--who are coming out of the room.

They kiss.

The movie cuts to Hannah, leaning contentedly against a

doorway into the living room and listening to the offscreen

Evan play the piano.  Elliot, holding his drink, walks over

to her.  They look at each other for a beat; Elliot then

hugs Hannah, pulling her towards him.  She leans her head on

his shoulder, fingering his jacket lapel.  They look

offscreen together, happily, intimately, at the offscreen

guests, as the camera moves across the room, past a few

guests, to reveal Evan sitting at the piano.  Norma sits at

his side, one arm resting on the piano.  She holds a drink

and looks off in the distance, mouthing the words to "Isn't

It Romantic."

The camera then moves to the doorway in the living room,

where a man, holding a drink, enters and joins the happy

crowd.  Evan can be seen in the background, playing his song.

A child plays near the coffee table.

The camera continues to move past the doorway, past a huge

grandfather clock, to a second doorway leading to the den.

Here, more guests are gathered; a child sits in a small

chair by the sofa.  He sips a soda as female guest #2 enters

the room and crouches down next to him, smiling.  She waves

to him.  He waves back as the camera continues to move past

the doorway to reveal Holly, standing in front of a hallway

mirror, fixing her earrings.  Mavis can be seen in the

background, through the doorway into the dining room,

lighting the candles on the table.  She dims the lights,

darkening the room and the hallway where Holly stands in a

warm candlelit glow.  Mavis leaves the dining room and

passes Holly.

Mavis walks off.  Holly, reflected in the mirror, begins

fluffing her hair as Mickey enters and wraps his arms around

her from behind.  The camera stays focused on the mirror;

both Holly and Mickey are now seen in its reflection.

Mickey continues to kiss Holly.  She responds, sighing and

closing her eyes.

Mickey continues to kiss Holly's neck; he chuckles.

The mirror shows Mickey pulling away slightly, reacting.

They look at each other at arm's length, Holly grinning.

Mickey in shock, then embrace and kiss passionately, tighter

and tighter, as the music swells...

And the credits appear, white on a black screen.

