EXT. JUNK YARD -- DAY

A garbage truck roars by and...

Simon Grim hangs from the back of it. He is a shy, skinny

and terrified-looking guy around thirty years old.

The truck rumbles to a halt and Simon climbs down off it to

go punch out at the time clock.

EXT. BEHIND THE WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Moments later.

He comes walking up a small alley and sits to drink his beer.

He begins to relax. This is his quality private time.

Then he hears something and looks up.

He peeks up over the edge of some junked kitchen appliances

and sees...

Two teenage kids -- Warren and Amy -- smoking crack and having

sex.

Simon looks on, intrigued, as Warren smokes, then...

Amy takes the pipe and smokes as he feels her up.

Simon is fascinated. He drinks and looks on as...

Amy grins up foolishly at Warren and lowers the pipe. The

boy undoes his belt and hikes up the girl's skirt.

Simon can't believe this. He looks around to see if the coast

is clear, then returns just in time to see...

Warren takes Amy by the waist and enter her.

The pipe falls from the young girl's hand.

Warren throws his head back and grinds himself into her.

Simon's mouth falls open in awe.

But Amy tosses her head back to the side and sees...

The amazed garbage man; caught.

Amy starts screaming insanely.

Simon runs for his life.

Amy and Warren throw rocks and bottles at him as they chase

him away.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Moments later.

Simon runs up and throws open the screen door. He stands

there in the doorway catching his breath.

His sister, Fay, is at the kitchen table watching a small

portable TV while their mother, Mary, sits a few feet away

in the living-room watching another TV tuned to a different

channel.

Mary is a manic-depressive, still in her bathrobe at six in

the evening.

Fay holds her head in her hands and sighs. She glares at her

brother.

Simon sits at the table and Fay slams down before him a bowl

of some sort of gruel. He hesitates, then lifts his spoon.

Supper is horrible and he screws up his face in disgust. Fay

gives him a sideways glance and he leans back down over the

bowl and eats some more.

Pushing the bowl away gently, he reaches out for the container

of milk on the table and drinks straight from it.

He suddenly jumps back and spits out sour milk all over the

table. The container drops to the floor and thick globs of

cheese roll out.

He stands back against the fridge, holding his stomach

while...

Fay and Mary look on in disgust.

EXT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Moments later.

Simon crosses the lawn and sits on the curb outside his house.

He stares at the ground before him as he holds his stomach

and spits, sickened.

He looks up, though, and sees...

A little seven-year-old girl -- Pearl age seven -- standing

there in the street watching him.

Simon tries to smile at her.

But she throws a rock at him and hits him in the head.

He falls forward, hurt, as the little girl runs away. Lowering

his hand, he sees he's bleeding. Desperate, lonely and ill,

he drags his bloodied fingers across the coarse pavement.

Fay slams out of the side door of the house in a tight-fitting

dress and stands on the lawn, applying lipstick.

Fay snaps shut her compact, straightens her skirt and sighs.

Simon loses track of what he is hearing and relaxes. He looks

back at his sister.

Fay fluffs out her hair and walks off.

Simon watches her go, but is still drawn to something he

seems to hear up the street in the other direction. He cocks

his head, sits perfectly still and listens.

He hears it now. We do, too. Footsteps. Big ones. Like a

giant somewhere in the distance. The neighborhood trembles.

Titles begin.

Simon tries to figure out where it's coming from; the sky,

the house, the highway at the end of his block... Finally,

he focuses on...

The blacktop right before him, smeared with his own blood.

Music starts.

He kneels out slowly into the street and stares at the

pavement. He stretches out his hand and places it flat on

the road. The pounding is louder now, becoming the beat of

the music over the scene.

Simon lowers his face to the pavement, closes his eyes and...

Puts his ear right down against the road. He hears...

The steady tread of somebody very much larger than life.

Kneeling forward, with his ear to the ground, Simon opens

his eyes and sees...

A man approaching. The music swells up full.

Simon lifts his head slowly from the road, looking off in

wonder at...

This stranger coming towards him; an oddly handsome freak

striding over the crest of the distant intersection with a

windswept mane, two over-stuffed suitcases and a crumpled

tie fluttering back over his broad but crooked shoulders.

Simon rises till he's kneeling up straight in the road.

Henry Fool finally reaches him and stops.

Titles finish.

Simon says nothing and watches as Henry looks off at the

house.

Satisfied, but wary, Henry Fool looks around the neighborhood

and then down at Simon.

He tosses the suitcases down in front of Simon and walks off

towards his new home.

EXT. BACK OF THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Henry comes around behind the house and finds the door to

his basement apartment. He approaches. Simon follows, carrying

the suitcases.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Moments later.

The door is wrenched open and Henry is hit square in the jaw

by a decade of dank airless gloom. He coughs.

Entering, he finds a few old wooden chairs littering the

main room. He inspects the old wood stove, then takes a chair

and smashes it. He tosses the wood in the stove.

Simon looks on, amazed. Henry lights a fire with unusually

quick results, then stands back and looks at Simon.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

This is a convenience store with a number of tables at which

to eat donuts.

Warren is shoplifting while Amy terrorizes Gnoc Deng, the

Vietnamese cashier, who stares out at them from behind the

safety of the counter.

Amy looks back at Gnoc, snarls, then follows the cashier's

gaze to the door.

Simon enters. Clutching Henry's cash, he stops dead in his

tracks when he sees...

Warren and Amy.

He steps forward and approaches the beer cooler.

Warren and Amy hover around, just out of reach, like a couple

of vampires.

Dragging a six-pack out of the cooler, Simon crosses to the

counter. Warren and Amy hang back, silent and threatening.

Gnoc rings up the purchase and glances over at...

Amy, staring a hole into the side of Simon's skull.

Gnoc hands Simon back his change and he makes for the door,

but...

Warren shoves himself between it and Simon.

Simon freezes. Warren is expressionless. Simon looks back at

Amy. She turns away, reaches up under her skirt, jerks down

her panties, then leans forward on to the counter. Leering

back over her shoulder, she hisses...

Simon is nonplussed.

Gnoc presses a button on the wall that sets...

A red light flashing above the stockroom door.

Warren grabs Simon by the neck and drags him over to Amy's

bare behind. Amy laughs as Simon is forced to his knees and

has his face shoved up right into the crack of her ass.

But then... Simon throws up all over her.

Warren falls back in disgust.

Gnoc covers her face with her hands.

Amy looks around at herself, realizes, and starts screaming

bloody murder.

Simon falls back on to the floor, clutching his stomach, as

Amy staggers around with her vomit-strewn underwear down

around her ankles.

Then Gnoc's father, Mr Deng, appears at the stockroom door

holding a shovel and ready to fight.

Mr Deng comes running at them and Warren drags Amy from the

store. Simon crawls out of the way as the old man throws

open the door to the parking lot and screams at the retreating

delinquents...

Having scared them off, he comes back in and starts screaming

at Simon.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Later.

Simon splashes water over his face at the kitchen sink, then

watches as Henry unpacks one of his suitcases. It is filled

with dozens of old, worn notebooks. Henry stacks them on the

mantelpiece over the fireplace; the fire is now crackling

and bright.

Simon steps over and looks at...

The name tag on the other suitcase: 'Henry Fool'.

Simon looks over and sees...

Henry's silhouette against the fire. He steps forward into

the light and grabs a beer from the six-pack on the floor.

He hands one to Simon.

Simon takes it and stares at it a moment before raising his

eyes to Henry.

He winks at Simon, then struts around the room, hugely

impressed with himself.

Simon comes away from the fire, watching him carefully. Henry

stands in a dim corner across the room.

Henry pauses, looks aside, drinks, then grins demoniacally.

He steps forward and comes face to face with Simon. He lifts

his finger and points to...

Simon's name stitched upon the breast of his work shirt.

Realizing this, Simon moves off and thinks.

Henry throws more wood on the fire, glancing back over his

shoulder, laughing mischievously.

He tries to articulate what he thinks he feels but winds up

gesticulating curiously with his hands. This finally dissolves

into a dumb stare into empty space.

Simon looks at him. Henry stands and grabs a notebook from

off the mantelpiece. He tears out a few pages and shoves

them in his pocket. He hands the now fresh writing tablet to

Simon.

He searches his pockets and finds a pencil.

Simon hesitates, then accepts the gifts. Henry goes for

another beer while his new friend studies the dozens of

notebooks on the mantelpiece.

Henry drinks and looks down into the raging fire.

He smokes. Simon is impressed. They hear a bottle smash

outside in the street and Henry goes to the window. They're

throwing bottles at the house.

Simon jumps up.

Henry stops. Simon looks away and sits back down.

He is ashamed of himself.

Henry sees this and settles down. He considers his new friend

with genuine care as he gets himself a new cigarette. He

lights up, thinks, then grabs another chair and sits close

by Simon. They sit there in silence a while, then...

Henry stares into the flames and falls silent. Simon is

riveted. He leans forward, on the edge of his seat...

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE. UPSTAIRS -- NIGHT

Later that night.

Simon climbs the stairs and stops when he hears raunchy sex

from his sister's room. He stands outside her door and

listens.

Simon looks up the hall and sees his mother in her room,

sitting on the edge of her bed, smoking. He approaches and

stands in her doorway.

Simon says nothing. He looks down at his feet.

Now she says nothing. She smokes and looks away.

Simon steps into the bathroom and gets her medication. He

runs a glass of water and brings it in to her.

She swallows the pills and washes them back with water.

She looks away, unconcerned and cynical.

She throws the blanket over herself and turns off the light.

Simon stands there in the dark.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Moments later.

Simon comes downstairs into the quiet, dark kitchen and sits

at the table. He listens to the traffic on the highway and

stares off into space. Finally, he takes the notebook Henry

gave him from his pocket and places it before him. But then

he just gazes off into the dim living-room and scratches his

head. Returning his attention to the notebook, he digs down

into his pocket and retrieves his short stub of pencil.

He opens the notebook and carefully flattens back the cover.

Lifting the pencil, he pauses and stares at the blank page.

Then, after more intense hesitation, he brings the pencil's

dull tip to the very top left edge of the page and begins

writing in a slow, laborious hand.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY

The next morning.

Henry barges in the kitchen door with two containers of coffee

and some jelly donuts. Simon jumps up from where he sits

asleep over his notebook at the table.

Simon rubs the sleep from his eyes, blinks, disoriented and

reaches for his wallet.

He lifts up Simon's notebook.

Simon hesitates, shyly.

He gives up, sighs and gazes at the floor. Henry flips through

the book, impressed. It is full from cover to cover, every

page dense with Simon's cryptic scrawl. Henry frowns,

intrigued. Then...

Simon looks up, terrified. But his friend puts him at ease.

EXT. JUNK YARD -- DAY

Later that day.

Simon finds a number of volumes of the classics while crushing

garbage.

EXT. BEHIND WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

That evening.

Simon sits with his evening beer and his new collection of

soiled classics. He cracks open a volume of Shakespeare and

tries to read. It's an obvious struggle. He puts it aside

and lifts up Wordsworth, studying its cover and the texture

of the pages. A page flutters away and he climbs down to the

edge of a greasy puddle to retrieve it. It's now wet and

torn, so he flattens it out on the concrete and tries to fit

it back into the book.

He reads a little, furrowing his brow, then drinks. He bites

his lip and tries again.

He sits back, exhausted and thinks. He hears a twig snap and

looks back over his shoulder to see...

Amy throws a bottle at his head.

Smash!!!! He falls to the ground, blood streaming down his

neck.

Warren runs over and grabs him by the shirt, lifting him out

of the puddle and smacking him in the head.

Amy runs forward and waits with a rolled-up newspaper which

she sets aflame with her lighter.

Warren punches Simon in the stomach and throws him to the

ground, then unzips his fly and pisses on him.

Amy watches, giggling excitedly, waving the flaming torch.

Simon crawls away and grabs hold of an old section of fence,

while Warren zips up and grabs the fire from Amy.

Simon pulls himself to his knees, rests his face against the

rusted fence and gasps for breath. Warren waves the flaming

torch in his face.

Amy comes nearer with a can of gasoline. Simon pulls himself

to his feet as she splashes him with fuel. Warren is waving

the torch deliriously above his head.

Warren stops.

Amy steps back and lowers the gas can.

Simon turns with effort to face them, adjusts his glasses

and continues...

Warren watches him blankly, then is burned by the torch which

is too hot to handle. He drops it.

Amy giggles, then stops, excited, but confused.

Simon grips the rusted chainlink so that it cuts into his

hands and stares straight at Warren.

Warren is transfixed. He shivers and looks at Amy, who steps

back, scared, and puts down the gas can. She turns and walks

away.

Warren looks back at Simon, troubled.

He hangs there still, glaring at him.

Further away, Warren rejoins Amy and stares at his hands.

Amy looks ill.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Henry is at one of the tables, correcting the spelling in

Simon's notebook, when he looks up and sees...

Simon stumble in, beaten and bruised, dropping his classics

to the floor. Henry and Mr Deng rush over to him.

He passes out. Henry looks at Mr Deng.

Henry nods, agreeing, then lifts Simon off the floor. Mr

Deng holds the door open as Henry carries his friend out

into the parking lot.

Meanwhile, Gnoc gathers up the classics from the floor and

places them beside Simon's notebook, where it still sits

open on the table. She looks at it, then reads. She lifts it

off the table and reads further, immediately and deeply

engrossed.

Mr Deng watches as Henry departs with Simon, then comes back

into the store and stops, startled, when he sees...

Gnoc sitting there, staring off into space, the notebook

open in her hands before her, singing quietly.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Twenty minutes later.

Fay is in the bathroom helping Simon out of his clothes,

trying to clean his wounds.

Henry is at the kitchen table with Mary. She watches him

suspiciously. He lets her.

She watches him as he walks around the room, browsing.

He stops and lifts a small framed photo of a soldier off the

piano.

Violated somehow, she gets up and snatches it out of his

hands. She puts it in a drawer and cringes as Henry plays

one note on the piano.

He fixes her with a steady, knowing stare which causes her

to gather the collar of her bathrobe up around her neck. She

steps back, exposed, when there's a knock at the door. They

look over to see...

Mr Deng enter with the notebook.

Henry comes over, takes the notebook from him and shoves it

in his pocket.

Meanwhile, back in the bathroom...

She storms out to the top of the stairs, cocks her hip and

whines...

Simon reaches out and slams the bathroom door.

Fay looks from the bathroom door down the stairs to Mary.

Mary, her nerves rattled, glances over at Mr Deng, who turns

and leaves the house.

Henry lights a fresh cigarette, loosens his tie and heads

upstairs.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE BATHROOM -- DAY

A moment later.

Henry throws open the door and enters. He steps over Simon,

who is on the floor, folded up against the toilet.

Henry sits on the edge of the bathtub and takes the notebook

from his pocket.

Simon just looks at him, not certain what he means.

He scratches his chin and smokes.

Simon just stares at him, overwhelmed. Henry drops the

notebook on the floor and points at it with his cigarette.

Simon just blinks, looks away and wonders.

Simon coughs and Henry leans back and smokes.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE UPSTAIRS -- NIGHT

An hour later.

Fay cringes outside Simon's room as Henry goes about setting

her brother's arm.

Simon does.

He pauses, then leans back.

Simon nods and stares at the ceiling. Henry hands him a towel.

Simon bites down on the towel and grips the edge of the bed

with his free hand. Henry sits on his legs and gently raises

the broken arm.

Outside the door, Fay bites her knuckles. Further down the

hall, Mary listens from her bedroom.

Simon nods. Henry grabs hold of the arm, swallows and braces

himself. Simon waits, then Henry tugs the arm straight.

Fay turns and runs down the stairs. Mary backs away into her

room and shuts the door.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Later that night.

Henry comes downstairs and stops, tired. Fay is sitting at

the table with a bottle of gin and two glasses. She has dolled

herself up a little and Henry likes what he sees. He looks

her over and she smiles. He sits. She pours. They drink.

They drink again in silence. He lights her cigarette and

they watch each other closely. Finally, Fay leans on the

table and twirls a strand of her hair between her fingers.

He drinks and studies her. She presents her profile. Finally,

he leans back.

Fay jumps up, furious.

She grabs her bag and storms out of the house. Henry watches

her go, then chuckles deviously and splashes himself another

drink.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Next morning.

A thirty-year-old cocktail waitress named Vicky walks up and

stops when she sees...

Warren, sitting back against the side of World of Donuts,

smoking a joint and thinking about his future.

She sighs and approaches.

Unruffled, she hands him a flyer.

He tokes deeply, then...

Warren looks over the flyer, then reconsiders Vicky.

Vicky sighs, troubled. She adjusts her waitress uniform and

looks mildly offended.

Warren gets up, too.

Vicky is hard-pressed. She wants to believe him, but knows

better. She thinks about it while...

Henry passes by and approaches the store.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Same time.

Henry enters and takes Simon's notebook from his pocket. He

flips through a few pages and selects one in particular.

He tears it out of the book and tapes it up beside the

register so customers can read it. He winks at Gnoc. She

smiles shyly and makes him a coffee. He takes it and moves

off to a table just as...

Vicky enters. She starts accumulating groceries, placing

them on the counter one item at a time.

Henry settles down and watches as...

Vicky returns to the counter with a bottle of orange juice

and notices the poem. She reads, holding the orange juice

out to her side.

Gnoc starts to ring up the other purchases as her father

comes up behind her, busying himself with an inventory of

the cigarettes.

Vicky's lip starts to tremble as she reads, a horrified

expression clouding her face. Finally...

Smash!!!! She drops the bottle of orange juice and stands

back. Mr Deng and Gnoc jump back, alarmed.

Henry tilts his head and pays close attention.

Mr Deng looks from her to the poem and then over at Henry.

Henry urges the man to stand up for himself.

She grabs her things and leaves. Mr Deng holds his head and

looks over at Henry.

Mr Deng has no idea. He sits, worried, as Gnoc comes out

from behind the counter and begins mopping up the mess.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN - DAY

Later.

Henry is at the kitchen table with Simon, working on the

poem. Simon is bandaged up, his arm in a sling, black eyes,

etc.

Henry lifts up one of Simon's newly acquired classics...

Simon looks past him and Henry follows his gaze to find...

Mary standing at the foot of the stairs, listening to them.

She says nothing. She looks Henry up and down, then shakes

her head disdainfully and grunts. She throws herself on the

couch and turns on the TV, casting acid glances over at the

kitchen.

EXT. THE GRIM HOUSE - DAY

Moments later.

Henry and Simon come outside...

Henry wanders out to the road, checking his wallet, then...

Simon looks off, thinks it over and slowly nods.

He pulls the tiny piece of crumpled advice out from one of

his pockets and shows it to Simon.

He hurries away around the corner. Simon walks back to the

house and stops when he sees...

A plain-clothes policeman, Officer Bunuel, drive up and park

before the house.

Simon spies as the man gets out of his car and knocks on

Henry's door. He, of course, gets no answer.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY

Later that day.

Simon works on his poem at the kitchen table while Fay flips

through a magazine and watches TV. Mary, lying on the couch

in her bathrobe, watches her own TV.

The cacophony is augmented by the rattling dishwasher and

the trucks rumbling by on the highway outside.

Mary looks over at her son, suspicious, and leans off the

couch.

He carefully finishes writing a word, then looks up and

pauses.

Mary looks at Fay, who looks up from her magazine and

considers her brother. Then they break out laughing.

Simon looks on.

They laugh and laugh and laugh...

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Later.

Simon is bent over his notebook, consulting a dictionary,

hard at work.

Amy and three kids are grouped around the register, reading

the page Henry taped up earlier. As they read, Amy glances

anxiously back at Simon.

They finish reading and stand back.

Amy nods 'Yes', then leads them towards Simon.

Simon scribbles away.

He looks up, sees her, panics and slides away on the seat.

Amy looks down and bites her lip, contrite. She sighs.

Simon looks around at them all, threatened.

Simon fumbles with his pencil, ill at ease and self-conscious.

Then, to get rid of them, he nods his consent.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

That evening.

Fay comes downstairs in only a towel and wet hair. She

switches on the TV and looks for cigarettes. She finds Mary's

pills on the table and remembers to ask...

Mary is lying on the couch. She drags her eyes from the TV

and glances lazily at Fay, then back to the TV.

She sits at the kitchen table and lifts her magazine.

Henry shows up at the kitchen door with a pile of library

books. His eyes brighten when he sees...

Fay sitting there wearing only her towel. He knocks. She

looks back over her shoulder and sees him.

She turns away.

He comes in and stacks the books near the sink. Fay pretends

to ignore him, but rakes her fingers through her wet hair

anyway, to show more shoulder.

This is not lost on Henry, who tarries and leans back against

the counter, salivating.

Fay flips through her magazine and Henry steps closer and

leans against the fridge.

She casts a bored glance in his direction, then returns her

attention to the TV. She senses him step aside and follows

his movements without turning. Suddenly his hand appears

from behind her and gently strokes her hair. She freezes,

waits, wonders...

He leans his face down beside her. She looks at him. He looks

at her, then down to...

Her bare legs crossed before her on the kitchen chair. His

hand moves down and slides itself deep in between her things.

Her mouth drops open.

He looks back up at her. He grins.

Fay jumps up and away, breathlessly clutching the towel around

herself.

Henry casts a glance over her body, throws his hair back out

of his face and shivers with lust.

Fay steps back and grabs hold of the staircase banister,

making an unconvincing gesture of injured pride.

Henry comes closer and she steps backwards up the stairs.

He stops, loosens his tie, holding her with his gaze.

She readjusts her towel, throws back her wet hair, sighs

defiantly, then sashays into her room, leaving the door ajar.

Henry waits there at the foot of the stairs, reaches down,

grabs his crotch and repositions his hard-on. He takes a

step up the stairs, then stops. He looks over to the couch

and sees...

Mary, lying there, sedately amazed.

He pauses, then grins.

Mary blinks and smiles sleepily.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Same time.

Simon sits back from his writing and rubs his neck. Putting

down his pencil, he looks up and sees...

Warren enter the store and grab a beer from the cooler. Seeing

Simon, he waves and approaches.

Simon hesitates, but then nods uncertainly. Warren hands him

a flyer. This year when you go to the polls, I want you to

consider Congressman Owen Feer. He wants to restore America

to its position of unmatched wealth, power and opportunity;

to revitalize American civilization and lead the human race

to even greater levels of freedom, prosperity and security!

He's a good man.

He steps over to the register and pays for his beer. Mr Deng

glares at him, distrustfully. Warren stops on his way out

and snarls at the old man...

He leaves. Simon looks down and studies the flyer.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE. UPSTAIRS -- DAY

Same time.

Fay lies across her bed in her towel, holding a pose and

glancing anxiously back at the door. Finally, losing her

patience, she gets up.

She opens the door and looks out into the hall.

He's not there.

She steps out into the hall and listens.

Nothing. She comes to the top of the stairs and hears faint

activity from down below. She proceeds downstairs.

She sees no one in the kitchen, then looks in the living-

room and stops. She goes white, her mouth falling open in

horror.

Henry and Mary are screwing one another on the couch. Sloppy,

impassioned, brute sex.

They fall away from each other in terror and fatigue. Mary

clutches wildly at her bathrobe as Henry falls over the coffee

table, stumbles to his feet and pulls up his trousers.

Fay is crushed. She breaks out in tears and runs upstairs.

Henry catches his breath and starts after her, but stops,

uncertain and confused.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Simon is asleep with his head down on the table. He wakes

finally and sees...

Henry sitting across from him, gripping a beer and reading

the poem. He finishes, shuts the book and drinks.

Simon takes this in, then looks down at his hands and proceeds

carefully.

Henry throws his eyes heavenward and pulls his hair. Jumping

to his feet, he paces maniacally.

A customer a few tables away gets nervous and leaves.

Some kid named Tim, sitting at another table, turns around

and asks...

He drinks, then returns and sits beside Simon.

He drinks, burps, then slams down the can. He glances over

at Tim who is still looking on.

Tim hesitates, but then obeys. He gets up and leaves. Henry

returns to Simon.

Simon blinks. Henry adds...

Simon is deeply confused. He looks ill. He stands and takes

a few steps away, staring at the floor.

Simon stops and looks at him.

Simon pauses, then comes closer to Henry and stops.

Henry jumps up, strides around the store and speaks at the

top of his voice.

He walks to the door.

He strides out of the store.

Simon stands there, stunned and looks at Mr Deng as the old

man wipes off the table with a wet rag.

INT. THE INFERNO -- NIGHT

Later that night.

Henry is dancing wildly on the bar with two sloppy-drunk

topless dancers. The place is rocking and the crowd cheers

them on.

Simon sits perched on a stool, gripping the bar with white

knuckles and clutching a beer, looking on in terror as...

Henry starts stripping.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- NIGHT

Later that night.

Simon stumbles in and heads upstairs. But he stops, seeing...

Mary, sitting on the top step, smoking. She looks guilty and

tense. So does Simon.

She gets up and storms into her room.

INT. FAY'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Moments later.

Simon comes upstairs and stops outside his bedroom door when

he sees...

Fay, passed out drunk on her bed. Her clothes are half off

and her lipstick smeared. She still grips a bottle of tequila

in her hand.

Simon hesitates, but then goes in and removes her shoes. He

gets her out of her jacket and rolls her into the bed.

Her bare limbs have their effect on Simon and he finds himself

staring at her thigh.

He reaches out and almost caresses her leg where her hiked-

up skirt reveals the bottom of her behind. He catches himself,

snaps his hand away and covers Fay with a blanket.

He flees.

INT. SIMON'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Moments later.

Simon is alone in the room with his bed.

The pale sheets beckon.

He is flushed. He blinks.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Moments later.

He creeps down the stairs with an arm-load of books. Sitting

at the table, he wrenches a nearby lamp into a more useful

position and begins to read.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

The next morning.

Henry stumbles up the stoop carrying a laptop computer, its

various accessories and a couple of coffees.

He lets himself in and dumps the computer on the kitchen

counter.

Simon is asleep on the couch, still in his clothes.

Henry trudges back to the kitchen, where he whips out his

red pen and immediately begins to correct Simon's poem.

Simon rolls off the couch and makes his way to the table.

Seeing the computer...

He reaches into his pocket.

Simon looks over the computer and flips through the manual.

Fay is on the stairs, hungover and disgusted. Henry throws

up his hands and gets up to go.

Mary throws open her bedroom door.

Fay stomps back upstairs. Mary slams her door shut. Simon

runs out after Henry.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Moments later.

Simon follows Henry out into the street and over towards

World Of Donuts...

But Henry stops short, seeing...

Officer Bunuel enter World of Donuts.

And he runs down the street in the opposite direction. Simon

hangs back, but then follows...

INT. CHURCH -- DAY

Moments later.

They scramble in and Henry is out of breath. He slumps down

into a pew.

Simon does, but then...

He pats his pockets, looking for his smokes. Simon looks on,

baffled. He comes closer.

He hears something, stands and moves further into the church.

Simon hesitates, but then follows. They hear someone crying.

Finally, in a pew off to one side in the shadows, they find...

A young priest named Father Hawkes. He's a wreck. He looks

up from his quiet sobbing and sees...

Henry and Simon standing there looking on with embarrassed

distaste. He lowers his head in shame. Henry moves closer

and sits beside the distraught priest.

The priest sighs hopelessly.

Henry leans back with a sigh and reaches for his cigarettes.

He offers a cigarette to the priest and he accepts.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Warren is stopping people on their way in and out of World

of Donuts.

A man, Bill, steps up...

Warren stands back and loosens his tie. He looks over at

Pearl age seven, who is sitting outside the store.

She doesn't respond. He shakes his head and approaches. He

sees Fay exit the store...

Fay figures it out and approaches.

She lifts a flyer and reads.

She studies him a moment more, lost, then shakes her head

and helps the child off the car.

INT. THE INFERNO -- DAY

An hour later.

Henry and Father Hawkes are drinking. Simon leans on the

bar, nodding off to sleep. After a while, Father Hawkes leans

back and...

Simon falls off his bar stool.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Moments later.

Warren straightens his tie and looks over to see...

Simon stagger up.

Warren shakes his head in dismay and approaches. Simon

steadies himself against the wall of the building.

Simon is lost.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Moments later.

He staggers into World of Donuts and heads for the coffee

machine, but stops when he sees Bunuel talking to Mr Deng.

Bunuel looks over. Their eyes lock.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Same time.

Whack!!! He slaps her...

Simon runs out of the store and limps away towards home as

Bunuel storms out in pursuit. Simon tries to run, but Bunuel

catches him easily.

Simon ceases to struggle, but shakes himself free and stands

looking down at his feet. Bunuel stands aside and watches

him a moment, then reaches in his jacket and brings out his

badge.

Simon studies the badge and waits a little, before asking...

Bunuel pauses, then puts away his badge and looks around the

parking lot.

Simon doesn't corroborate this. He looks away and readjusts

his sling. Bunuel scratches his head, satisfied and prepares

to leave. But first...

Simon shrugs.

Bunuel waits a moment, then steps away and gets back in his

car. Simon watches as the parole officer drives away and

passes...

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY

Later.

Simon thinks of trying to explain, but then decides not to.

Fay looks at the ceiling and sighs.

They wait as the child goes outside.

Mary listens, unseen, from her bedroom door.

Fay comes over and frowns at her brother. She's about to

lecture him, but he cuts her off.

Fay tries to control herself. She sighs tiredly and attempts

to reason with him...

Fay steps back, startled. Simon stands, but can't decide

which way to go. He sits back down.

Mary turns away from her door and sits on her bed.

Fay leans over the stove, where a large pot of water is

beginning to boil.

Simon is frustrated and lashes out.

Fay's mouth falls open and she staggers back, hurt.

Simon regrets it already and stands to leave, scared. But

Fay grabs the pot off the stove and hurls it at him, splashing

boiling water all over his back.

Outside, Pearl turns and looks back at the house.

Simon lies gasping on the floor of the kitchen. Fay falls

back against the stove, terrified and drops her head into

her hands.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE BATHROOM -- DAY

Later.

Fay is crouched on the floor, sobbing, while Simon lies in a

tub of cold water. Mary comes in with a pathetic little

freezer tray of ice cubes and dumps them into the tub.

She steps back into the hall and throws the ice tray down

the stairs. She glares back at Fay, who cries even louder as

Simon stares up at the ceiling.

Mary shakes her head and walks into her room, slamming the

door behind her.

Simon has no answers. But he reaches out and touches his

sister's hand.

INT. LIBRARY -- DAY

Evening.

Simon comes limping in, all stiff because of his scalded

back. He's not familiar with the library, so he stands looking

around, trying to figure it out.

INT. LIBRARY STACKS -- DAY

Moments later.

He wanders into an aisle, overwhelmed by all the books. Coming

to the far end of the aisle, he looks off to his left and

sees Henry sitting on a small stool, reading, with ten or

twenty open volumes scattered around him on the floor.

Henry sighs and sits back down.

Simon blinks and looks down at his feet, unable to respond.

Deeply hurt, he simply turns to walk away. But Henry reaches

out and grabs his arm. Simon stops, pauses and looks back at

his friend.

He lets go and turns away on his stool.

Simon comes back over to him.

Henry gives in slowly to the inevitable. He sighs deeply and

stands, handing Simon a book...

Simon looks at the cover: Paradise Lost.

A young woman passes by, scanning the stacks. She and Henry

have a split second of eye contact, then she turns and moves

away. Henry straightens his tie and watches her go.

Henry stops and turns. Simon pauses, then...

Henry watches him for a moment, then swaggers closer...

Simon waits for more but is disappointed. With one final

cracked grin at his friend, Henry throws back his shoulders,

slicks back his hair and strides off. Simon watches him go

and frowns, not comforted. He flips through the pages of

Paradise Lost.

INT. LIBRARY READING ROOM -- DAY

Moments later.

He comes out from the stacks, working his way through the

first page of Paradise Lost. He nearly bumps into a girl and

they stop and look at one another. He tries to hold her gaze

for a moment, challenging himself, but then turns away and

stalks to a table. He sits and leans over the page.

After a moment, though, he lifts his face and glances at...

Another girl, sitting further down the table. She looks up

from her reading and returns his gaze.

He smiles at her.

She gets up and leaves.

Simon frowns, confounded and returns to his book. He takes

out his notebook and pencil, meaning to take notes, but sees

instead...

A third girl sitting at another table, listening to her

Walkman and typing her homework into a laptop computer.

He finds himself staring at her and forces himself back to

his book. But he can't help himself and glances back over at

her.

With a sigh, he begins to write in his notebook...

He looks back over at her. She happens to look up and their

eyes meet. She smiles. Horrified, he looks down.

He watches her again, thinks, then writes...

He writes a few moments more, scribbling across the page,

then stops and looks back over at the girl.

He tears out the page and folds it in half. Then he gets up

and crosses the room to where the girl is busily engaged in

her work. She looks up, sees him, and removes her headset

with a pleasant smile. He places his note on the table before

her, then turns and walks quickly away.

The girl watches him go, confused, then lifts the note and

reads...

By now, Simon is gone from the library. The girl finishes

reading the letter and looks around in astonishment.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Evening.

Henry enters and sits with Bunuel.

Henry just glares at him and smokes.

Bunuel looks down, disappointed.

Henry sits back, offended.

Henry leans back and sighs, furious and indignant.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- NIGHT

Simon comes in, excited and preoccupied, and finds Fay working

at the computer.

She shoves a sheath of papers up under his nose and he backs

away in disgust.

Simon takes his notebooks from a cabinet above the fridge.

He places the notebooks on the table and leaves the house.

Fay clears the computer screen, pulls the notebooks closer

and gets down to work.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Moments later.

Simon arrives with a six-pack and finds Henry sitting in

front of the fire, staring into the flames, brooding darkly.

He drinks, then looks at Simon and adds...

Henry stands and leans over the fire.

He comes over and takes a beer. He strides around the room,

thinking, reflecting.

Stops, drinks declares...

He approaches the notebooks lined up on the mantelpiece.

He glances over at Simon, who sits gripping his beer,

watching, rapt.

He pauses and swills back some beer. He brightens up, gets

excited...

Drinks sloppily, burps, wipes his mouth with his arm.

He smashes the bottle in the fireplace.

He grabs a new beer and twists off its cap.

He drinks, sighs and sits back down.

Simon sits back in awe. He waits a moment and thinks. Finally

he stands and approaches the 'Confession'. He reaches out

and drags his hand across the notebooks.

Henry sits staring into the flames again. He pauses, then...

INT. CHURCH -- DAY

Next day.

Simon and Father Hawkes are deep in conversation.

Simon listens and carefully considers all the priest says.

Father Hawkes pauses, then comes closer and sits.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Fay comes walking up through the parking lot with Simon's

notebooks and a pile of typed papers. She's a wreck; tear-

stained face and a ball of tissues gripped in her hand like

a weapon. She throws open the door to the World of Donuts

and looks around.

The place is crowded with teenagers hanging around like it

was a cafe or student union.

Fay sniffles tragically and falls on the counter.

Gnoc gets the Kleenex while Fay overhears two kids near

Simon's poem...

Fay pays for her tissues and makes her way to the back of

the store where she finds Simon with Henry, who is holding

forth to his friend and the small coterie of high school

students surrounding them...

Henry takes the typed manuscript from her and continues...

Fay blows her nose and Simon is concerned.

She drops her head to the table and cries. Henry and Simon

look on in silence. Then Henry continues...

Amy's girlfriend, Chris, leans forward studiously and asks...

Simon looks from her to Henry. Henry winks at him.

Simon signs the girl's book.

Henry seems a bit put upon.

Fay and Amy talk tech as...

Henry sips his beer and looks at her.

Henry reaches across the table and shakes Simon's hand.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY

The next day.

Fay is frying something on the stove, a cigarette hangs from

her lip. A middle-aged woman with a press ID on her lapel

appears at the kitchen door and taps.

Intrigued, Fay steps over to the door with her spatula. She

looks Edna over, studies her ID, then steps away and screams

upstairs.

Fay comes back over near the door, waving her spatula.

No response.

Simon finally shuffles into the kitchen.

Simon says nothing. He just stares at her.

Simon just looks away, thinks, then wanders back upstairs.

Mary passes him on his way out of the kitchen and comes up

to Fay and Edna at the door.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Henry is shaving. Simon sits in the kitchen, sorting through

rejection letters...

Simon gives up and pushes the letters away, beaten.

Henry drops his razor and stomps out into the hall.

Simon holds the stare, overwhelmed.

Simon looks away, thinks a moment, then looks back at Henry.

He goes back into the bathroom. Simon thinks a while, then...

No response.

Still no response. Simon gets up and stands in the bathroom

doorway. Henry is shaving.

Henry puts down his razor and looks at Simon in the mirror.

He sees Simon looks worried.

He walks around the bathroom, gesticulating.

Simon patiently absorbs all this, then walks through the

kitchen and looks across at the 'Confession' notebooks.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Simon talks with Fay as she eats her lunch.

She gets up to go. She's wearing a smart outfit.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Mary is sitting, brooding in front of the TV, which displays

only static white noise. She turns it off with the remote

and sits in silence for a moment.

She gets off the couch and moves to the kitchen table, where

Fay's computer sits. She goes over and reaches up above the

fridge, opening the cabinet containing Simon's notebooks.

She hesitates, then takes them down and holds them in her

hands, as if to begin reading. But then she puts them back.

She walks over to the piano and stands there, hesitating,

before slowly sitting down and opening it. She lifts her

hands to play, then pauses and looks around behind her, making

sure no one is there.

But, finally, she turns back and begins playing.

She plays a sad-sounding modern classical piece with rusty

accomplishment. At one time she was probably quite good.

She plays for a while, gradually letting herself become moved

by the music. But then she stops, pauses, and looks behind

her.

Simon is standing in the kitchen. He has been deeply affected

by her playing.

She stares him down a moment longer, then looks away and

closes the piano. She returns to the couch and switches on

the TV.

Simon comes closer. He sits.

Simon waits. Eventually...

She gets up off the couch and goes upstairs. She slams her

bedroom door and leaves Simon alone on the couch. He thinks.

Then, he gets up and goes into the kitchen.

He takes the typed manuscript of his poem from the cabinet

above the refrigerator and goes to the door. He pauses,

clutches the poem and goes out.

EXT. SUBWAY STATION -- DAY

Simon waits, clutching his poem to his side, as a train pulls

into the station. Excited and determined, he gets on.

INT. TRAIN -- DAY

Simon travels to New York City. He finds an envelope on the

floor to put the poem in.

INT. MARY'S ROOM -- DAY

Mary wakes up and sits on the edge of the bed, feeling

regretful about her tone of voice with Simon.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY

Moments later.

Mary comes down into the kitchen and listens.

No answer. She steps over to the cabinet and almost takes

down Simon's notebook. But doesn't. She grabs her pills and

is about to take them. But then she stops. She puts them

down and goes to the cabinet. She takes down Simon's notebooks

and sits at the table, pauses, then pulls them closer and

begins to read.

INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE LOBBY -- DAY

Simon enters a big, posh lobby and checks the registry.

INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE RECEPTION -- DAY

Moments later.

Simon comes out of the elevator and enters the reception

area of James Midriff and Sutton Publishing. He walks

hesitantly up to the receptionist, a bright and spirited

young woman named Laura.

Simon steps back defensively.

Laura steps back, cocks her head and removes her designer

eye-wear.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM -- DAY

Same time.

Angus is at a big table with two other men, Steve and Barry.

Laura knocks.

Steve and Barry nod.

And she's gone.

INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE RECEPTION -- DAY

Simon looks disappointed.

Simon just looks down at his shoes. Laura touches his arm

and reassures him.

He looks up, pauses, then...

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM -- DAY

Same time.

Laura re-enters...

INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE RECEPTION -- DAY

Moments later.

Angus comes out to the water cooler and glares at Simon as

he gets a drink.

He grabs the envelope and sees no title.

Simon is stumped. He looks over at Laura, who purses her

lips and tilts her head. He twists a button on his shirt,

thinking, then returns to Angus.

Simon looks over at Laura.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Henry paces back and forth. With the fingers of one hand

pressed against his forehead and his eyes closed tight in

concentration, he dictates to Amy, who is sitting at a table

with her laptop computer, typing his every word.

Amy types away, fascinated by Henry's intelligence.

Stops, zeroing in on his point.

He smokes, drinks, paces some more. Amy waits with bated

breath, devastated by his obscure profundity. He comes back

and sits beside her, reaching his conclusion.

She gazes at his profile, in love.

Henry sits thinking and Amy watches him reverently. She leans

over close and whispers in his ear. He turns and looks at

her, alarmed.

Henry jumps up and looks around, paranoid. He keeps his voice

down and points at her.

Disappointed, Amy turns away and sulks.

Henry sees she's genuinely upset and feels bad. He sits back

down and lays his hand on hers.

Now Henry tries to scare her away. He leers at her.

She just stares at him, blinks, then looks away and tries to

imagine this. She takes her laptop and leaves, confused and

blushing.

Henry watches her go and grins, satisfied with himself.

INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE RECEPTION -- DAY

Angus throws on his coat and thrusts the poem at Simon as

they walk down the hall.

Simon looks pale as Angus strides towards the elevator.

They reach the elevator and stop. Simon tries to catch his

breath.

Simon hesitates, almost decides against it, but then...

Angus looks back at him.

Simon waits.

Angus looks aside, thinks, then shakes his head.

Simon just looks at him blankly, confused.

The doors slide open and Angus gets in the elevator. He's

gone. Simon sinks into a chair and stares at the carpet. He

is so surprised and hurt he gasps for breath.

His poem slips from his hand and falls to the floor.

Simon doesn't register this right away. But then he looks up

and over at the receptionist.

Laura stands and comes around her desk. She pauses, seeing

his disappointment, then comes closer and picks up his poem.

Handing it to him, she explains...

He just stares at her, demolished.

EXT. SIDEWALK/SUBWAY ENTRANCE -- DAY

Later.

Simon dumps his poem in a trash can, pauses, then enters the

subway.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Henry is leaning on the counter, flipping through pornographic

magazines and smoking.

Henry flips through pages and nods, impressed.

Henry looks up, outraged.

Henry throws his cigarette to the floor, steps on it and

returns to his magazine.

Henry shakes his head in dismay and studies a centerfold.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY

Same time.

Fay comes in, hot and tired from walking around in high heels.

She stands on the stairs and hears the water running in the

bathroom.

No answer. She discovers she's out of cigarettes.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Henry is leaning on the counter with a six-pack of beer,

pleading with Mr Deng.

Warren comes in.

Warren reaches for his wallet.

Henry pays Mr Deng for his beer.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Moments later.

Fay bangs on the door.

No answer. She tries the door. It's open. She hesitates.

She goes quietly in.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Moments later.

Henry steps out of the store and stops when he sees Amy

standing there, pouting. He looks away and sighs. Amy picks

at the fabric of her stockings and bites her lip.

Henry smokes.

It's more than he can stand. He holds his head.

Crushed, she breaks out in tears and flees.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Same time.

Simon comes in, furious and throws open the fridge. He finds

nothing to eat or drink. He slams the door, then hears the

water running in the bathroom upstairs. He stops and listens.

The bathroom door; the water heard running steadily.

Simon turns away then sees...

The poem notebooks face down on the table.

He thinks.

The bathroom door; the water heard running...

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Moments later.

Henry comes into his house, hot and bothered, cradling his

six-pack. But he stops, listens, then steps through the

kitchen towards the living-room. He stops in the entrance

and sees...

Fay on the floor of the living-room, reading his 'Confession',

her mouth hung open in an astonished 'O'.

He drops his six-pack and...

She spins around, caught in the act.

Henry stands in the doorway, pent up, sweating and with

perverse things on his mind.

Fay, her hands palm down on the floor behind her, bites her

lip, coquettishly.

Henry looks her over like she was something good to eat.

She feels his gaze all over her and twists to one side with

a breathless little shudder.

He steps nearer, stands over her and she looks up at him.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Same time.

Simon climbs the stairs to the bathroom...

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Same time.

Henry and Fay kissing passionately...

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Same time.

Simon knocks on the bathroom door.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Same time.

Henry and Fay groping and shoving one another as they stagger

from room to room.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Same time.

Simon bangs on the bathroom door.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Same time.

Fay falls to the couch...

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Same time.

Simon crashes through the door and finds...

Mary, kneeling over the edge of the tub, her wrists slit and

the blood running down the drain, the shower raining down

over her back.

Simon looks on in horror.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Same time.

Henry tears open his trousers...

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Same time.

Simon lifts Mary from the bathtub.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Same time.

Henry and Fay clutch and grind and heave...

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Same time.

Simon drags his mother from the bathroom and down the stairs.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Same time.

Henry and Fay are making mad, passionate love, oblivious to

the world around them.

INT. GRIM HOUSE DAY -- DAY

Same time.

Simon drags Mary through the house.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Same time.

Henry and Fay fuck.

EXT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Same time.

Simon drags Mary out the kitchen door and into the yard,

looking desperately for help. He reaches the street, her

limp body hanging grotesquely before him, and looks helplessly

up and down the block.

EXT. CEMETERY -- DAY

Simon, Henry, Mr Deng, Fay, Gnoc and Bunuel stand with Father

Hawkes at the grave.

He sprinkles holy water on the coffin and they all drop

carnations at the grave. Simon and Fay remain there looking

down at the coffin. Henry waits for them a few yards away,

wishing he could help, but feeling out of place.

EXT. JUNKYARD -- DAY

Simon is back working on the garbage truck. He collects

garbage and throws it in the truck as Henry, who is just

along for the ride, hangs from the side of the truck and

pulls the lever whenever Simon tells him to.

Henry shrugs and qualifies...

Henry pulls the lever and the garbage gets crushed.

Henry is about to pull the lever again, but sees something

in amongst the garbage...

Henry steps down and leans over into the garbage. Simon joins

him as he lifts something that is either a ring or a stray

piece of machinery.

Henry puts it in his pocket, satisfied and Simon jumps on

the back of the truck as it turns the corner and rolls away.

Henry starts to walk off in the opposite direction, but stops

when he sees Pearl age seven.

EXT. VICKY'S HOUSE -- DAY

Henry comes up the street with Pearl age seven on his back.

He walks into Vicky's yard and finds Warren lifting weights

in the garage.

Warren rests. He sits up on the bench and takes a toke off

the joint he has waiting.

Henry pauses, then leads Pearl age seven towards the house.

Warren lies back down and continues his lifting.

INT. VICKY'S HOUSE -- DAY

Moments later.

Henry knocks on the door as he enters...

No answer. He comes in and finds her sitting on the couch

with a drink. She's got a black eye.

Pearl comes over and stands beside her mother.

Vicky caresses Pearl's hair, then drinks and looks over at

Henry.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Moments later.

Bunuel is waiting when Henry walks in and steps up to the

beer cooler.

Henry looks at the man, disgusted, then falls in to a seat

and motions to Gnoc, who is now the waitress.

He unfolds a print-out of the letter. Henry reads and Bunuel

leans over, pointing out...

Henry thinks this over, gulps back some espresso and nods

his approval. Then...

Henry is impressed.

Bunuel gets up to go.

He is having ideas.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY

Moments later.

Fay, still dressed in black, is tapping away on the keys to

the computer, surfing the Internet, as Henry appears at the

kitchen door, gripping his tall double espresso.

She turns and glares at him.

Henry stops, pauses, looks away. Then...

He changes the subject again, preoccupied and continues

tenderly...

He sighs and drinks his coffee, then looks back at her.

Fay is tempted.

Frowning, she reconsiders. She gets up and takes the notebooks

from the cabinet above the fridge. She flips through the

pages but suddenly stops and turns to the door with a nicer

attitude.

But he's gone. It's as if he has vanished into thin air. She

sighs, sits back down, and begins typing the poem onto the

Internet.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Moments later.

Henry comes back into the store, satisfied with himself. He

finishes off his coffee, tosses away the cup and takes a

pornographic magazine from the rack. He leans on the counter

where Mr Deng is busy working and flips through the pages.

Mr Deng starts to make him one and sees him with the magazine.

Mr Deng shakes his head and frowns.

Mr Deng brings over the coffee. Henry is surprised to notice

he is not riveted.

Henry closes the magazine and puts it back. Leaning on the

counter, he sips his coffee and ponders.

Mr Deng just goes back to work, leaving Henry there at the

counter thinking big thoughts.

EXT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- EVENING

Simon hangs from the garbage truck as it comes up the street

and pauses in front of his house. He jumps down and the truck

barrels away.

INT. FAY'S ROOM -- EVENING

Simon taps at the door. She looks over at him and he sees

she's been crying. He comes into the room and she sits up on

the edge of the bed.

He comes over and sits beside her. He thinks a moment, then...

And she starts crying again. Simon awkwardly touches her

shoulder, then moves his hand away. Fay pulls herself

together, sniffles and goes into the bathroom.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE, AT THE PIANO

Moments later.

Simon comes downstairs and finds Henry at the piano. He looks

ill and is clutching a nearly empty container of espresso.

He is staring sickly at 'the ring'.

Simon lifts the coffee container and smells it.

Henry tries to remember. He squints.

Simon puts the container down and sits at the table.

Henry grabs his stomach. He presses his hand against his

chest, holds his head, then stares at the ring.

He looks at Simon.

Henry looks at him.

Henry lets this sink in. He stands and the room tilts. White

with fear, he clutches at his rumbling gut.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE BATHROOM

Moments later.

Fay is in the shower as...

Henry bursts into the bathroom, tearing at his belt and

trousers. She starts screaming and wraps herself in the shower

curtain. He drops his pants and throws himself on the toilet

just in time to begin shitting his brains out. Fay crouches,

terrified and disgusted, in the shower.

Henry sweats and moans as he empties his bowels in a violent

and messy blast of noise and foul air.

Fay covers her face and whimpers sickly.

Finally, he's done. He hangs with his face out over his knees,

sick, exhausted and in shock. Fay wraps herself in a towel

and steps out of the shower. She creeps carefully around him

and flushes the toilet, growing increasingly concerned.

He is destroyed, staring down at...

The 'ring' he still holds in his hand.

Fay sees this, looks at Henry, then kneels and takes it from

him. He doesn't resist. She lifts it up and breathlessly

admires it. Totally misunderstanding, moved beyond words...

And she throws her arms around him as he sits there, sweating

and spent, on the toilet.

INT. CHURCH -- DAY

A month later.

Mr Deng and Bunuel drag Henry, kicking and screaming, into

the church foyer. Once inside, he shakes them off and they

stand back. He huffs and puffs and tosses the hair back out

of his eyes. He paces back and forth like a caged animal,

then stops, sees...

Fay, at the altar, waiting with Simon. She is beautiful.

Henry calms down, deeply affected.

Fay smiles down the aisle at him.

Henry throws back his shoulders, straightens his tie and

strides up the aisle.

Also present at the ceremony are Vicky and Warren. Gnoc is

maid of honor.

INT. CHURCH -- DAY

Later.

Henry holds Fay's hand and repeats after Father Hawkes.

The gasket everyone is now mistaking for a ring is lifted

high before the altar.

The gasket is placed on Fay's finger.

The doors of the church swing open with a tremendous creak

and everyone turns from the altar to see...

Amy enter. She steps in and stands there, alarmed, clutching

a long scroll of fax paper.

Simon walks down the aisle to see to Amy.

The guests watch and wait.

As Simon reaches her, Amy looks away from the altar and shows

him the fax scroll.

He studies the fax and recognizes his poem. He grows

concerned.

Simon looks up the aisle at...

Fay and Henry. They look away, caught.

Confused, Simon starts for the door, shoving the fax in his

pocket. Fay steps down from the altar...

Amy hurries along beside him.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- NIGHT

Later that evening.

The whole neighborhood is celebrating Fay's wedding. The

music is loud. The people are drunk. The place is a shambles.

A big dance number is playing. Amidst all the festivities,

though, Simon and Bunuel have the small TV propped up on top

of the fridge, following the evening news...

Fay leads the neighbors in the dance...

Henry and Fay dance, surrounded by the dancing neighbors...

Henry throws an arm around Warren, who stands looking dejected

in the doorway, and raises his glass to the happiness in the

room.

The TV is switched off. It's later now. People are passed

out on the kitchen floor and various neighbors are sitting

around the table. Fay steps back from the TV, drains a glass

of beer and wipes her mouth on the sleeve of her wedding

gown. She hugs Simon, who is deeply unsettled by the news of

his growing infamy.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

A huge crowd of kids are pressed up against the doors, trying

to get a peek at their hero, Simon Grim.

Angus comes away from the window. He stands and regards Simon,

who is sitting at a table tearing a napkin to shreds.

He points to the fans outside.

Simon thinks this over, but says nothing. Angus comes over

and lays his hand on his shoulder.

Simon nods.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Moments later.

Angus emerges and has to fight his way through the throng of

excited adolescents. He reaches his limo and gets in. But he

pauses before closing the door and considers the crowd.

Simon emerges from the store and kids begin screaming and

shouting for autographs. Angus shakes his head, impressed.

INT. CHURCH -- DAY

Simon consults Father Hawkes.

EXT. JUNKYARD -- DAY

Evening.

Henry stalks along, all fired up. Simon tries his best to

keep up with him.

He collapses extravagantly.

Henry glances back at his friend, digesting this. He thinks

it over, then...

Having finally got through to him, Simon comes forward,

anxious to help Henry.

He paces back and forth, thrusting out his chest, for the

first time in his life displaying something like pride or

arrogance.

Henry sits there watching Simon, impressed with this evidence

of increased self-esteem. He realizes the profundity of the

gesture.

Simon stares off into the distance.

Henry is moved. He stands and comes forward. He grabs his

friend by the shoulders and turns him around.

Henry steps away, considering, then looks back at Simon and

extends his hand.

Simon smiles. Henry smiles. They shake hands.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Simon enters, comes forward into the room and pauses, looking

off at...

The stack of twelve books that comprise the 'Confession'.

EXT. HOUSE/BACKYARD -- DAY

Henry stands outside, watching his door.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

Simon lifts the first volume, opens it and begins reading.

He sits.

EXT. BACKYARD -- DAY

Henry paces, drinking and smoking nervously.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Simon strides the length of the living room, reading. He

stops, frowns.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Simon reads in front of the fire.

EXT. BACKYARD/GARAGE -- NIGHT

Bunuel, Hawkes and Mr Deng sleep sitting up as Henry talks

to himself. Fay leans out the back door and interrupts him.

He looks at her, but says nothing. She sighs and goes back

inside: turning off the lights.

INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT -- DAY

The next morning.

Simon sits wearily reading the final page of volume twelve

as the morning sun streaks into the room. Finally, he finishes

and slowly closes the book. He stands and crosses the room.

Leaning against the wall, he removes his glasses and rubs

his aching eyes.

EXT. BACKYARD -- DAY

Simon steps out of Henry's apartment and sees Henry asleep

on the back stoop.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Simon stares into a glass of water. Fay sits ten feet away,

waiting. Finally...

INT. ANGUS JAMES' OFFICE -- DAY

The 'Confession' lies on the big desk. Angus' hand comes

down upon it.

Angus pauses and figures. He changes the subject.

He is at a loss for words.

Simon waits a while, staring at his shoes.

Simon sits and lets this sink in. Angus waits, then...

Simon continues looking out at the city. Angus waits, but

there is no response. Finally, Simon turns, pauses and slowly

crosses the room.

He sits at the table and looks down at the contract.

He signs.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY

Fay is in labor. Henry helps her into her coat as they rush

for the door.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Moments later.

Henry runs into the store and stands there, panicked, looking

at Hawkes, Bunuel and Mr Deng. Gnoc runs out to get Fay.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Henry and Gnoc load Fay into the van. The van pulls out.

INT. VAN -- DAY

Henry drives recklessly. Fay rolls around in the back.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR -- DAY

Fay is in a wheelchair being rushed down the hall. She is

gripping Henry's hand as he runs along beside her.

INT. HOSPITAL DELIVERY ROOM -- DAY

Fay gasps and sweats as the Doctor and Nurse prepare her.

She is scared. She looks over at...

Henry, looking in through the window. He looks scared too.

Fay is sedated by gas.

Henry is taken away by the Nurse.

Fay stares up at the ceiling.

INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT

Henry is asleep on a row of waiting-room chairs, exhausted.

Simon comes running up the hall and finds him. It's late and

no one is around. He sits down beside Henry and shakes him.

Henry wakes.

He sits up and Simon sits beside him.

Simon sits back, relieved. Then he remembers the rain-soaked

shopping bag he has with him. He pulls out a couple of cans

of beer and hands one to Henry.

They look around, seasoned conspirators and make sure the

coast is clear. Then they pop open the beers and toast.

They drink. Then...

Simon pauses, scared, then gets up and crosses the room. He

looks out of the window and gathers his strength.

Henry looks at Simon blankly, then blinks and looks away.

Silence. Simon comes back and sits again.

Simon just stares at him blankly, then sighs and shakes his

head.

Simon comes over and lays his hand on Henry's shoulder.

He steps away and sits. Henry pauses, then approaches and

leans down over him.

Henry stands there a moment longer, then lowers himself into

the nearest seat, weakened.

Simon's words catch in his throat. He turns away, frustrated.

Henry just stares at him, stands, then turns on his heel and

waves him off.

Simon hangs his head, destroyed.

Henry is scared all of a sudden. But he puts on a defiant

exterior.

He stands, drinks and walks over to the window...

Henry take advantage of Simon's disillusionment and puts on

a big show of secure wisdom.

Simon sits there a moment, numb with grief. Henry, red in

the face, stares at the floor. Suddenly, Simon stands and

walks out. Henry looks up and watches him go. He can hardly

believe it. He almost raises his voice and apologizes, but

can't. He lowers his head again and covers his face with his

hands, listening to Simon's footsteps receding through the

halls.

Simon walks on, away from us, down the hospital corridor.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

Seven years later.

Fay bangs out of the kitchen door with her seven-year-old

son Ned. Frazzled and overworked, she grips a loaded laundry

basket to her side as she sits Ned down on the curb and points

at him.

The kid sits still, obviously guilty of some unspeakable

mischief, as Fay storms back into the house. He looks around,

bored, then brightens up when he sees...

Henry, coming up the street, hanging from the back of a

garbage truck.

INT. THE INFERNO -- DAY

Moments later.

Henry enters with Ned on his back and the bartender, Patty,

goes ballistic.

She suddenly becomes all soft and cuddly.

He nods and Henry stands him on a stool at the bar.

He shakes his head.

He hands Ned a cigarette and lights it for him. Ned takes a

drag and coughs.

Ned nods in agreement.

And he offers the kid his whiskey.

EXT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Same time.

Fay comes out of the house and looks for her son.

She comes out to the street and looks around.

EXT. VICKY'S HOUSE -- DAY

Fay comes up looking for Ned and sees...

Pearl, age fourteen, come out of Vicky's House. She is

fourteen years old now. Warren steps out the door and grabs

her by the arm. She shakes him off. He slaps her.

She runs down the steps and glares back at him.

Pearl turns defiantly away and walks into the street.

INT. THE INFERNO -- DAY

Same time.

Henry is teaching Ned how to tip a topless dancer. A dancer

stands on the bar and stretches her garter as Ned slips a

dollar bill in beneath it.

Some other guy down the bar is reading a newspaper...

Henry looks over. The guy, Bill, shows him the article.

Henry and Ned crouch and quiver -- caught. Fay strides up to

the bar and grabs the kid.

The kid checks with Henry then looks back at Fay and nods.

Fay looks at her husband, outraged.

Fay slaps him across the face -- hard -- and the place goes

quiet. Henry shakes his head clear and she pokes him in the

chest with her finger.

And she storms out with the kid. Henry snaps his jaw back

into place, then looks at Patty and Bill and shrugs. He knocks

back his drink and motions for another.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- NIGHT

Later (evening).

Henry staggers out of the back door of the Inferno and comes

across Mr Deng sitting against the wall of the store, watching

the basketball game on a small TV. World of Donuts vibrates

with loud music.

Henry gestures to World of Donuts...

Henry considers his options, then...

INT. GARAGE -- NIGHT

The place is abandoned.

Henry comes in and, just as he is laying down to go to sleep

on an old couch, finds Pearl age fourteen.

She is hardened and disturbed, but frequently vulnerable and

scared; a troubled kid.

Pearl comes towards him. He is kneeling with his face at her

crotch level when she reaches him. She holds out a bottle of

cheap rot-gut wine. Realizing, he takes it and drinks. He

winces.

Pearl laughs and falls back onto the couch, her sweater

hanging off her shoulder and her skirt hiked up and displaying

her underwear.

Henry stands and searches for something to sit on.

She pats the couch beside her.

He comes over, eyeing her carefully and sits. He hands back

the bottle. She drinks, winces and sits staring at the flames.

Henry looks away, uncomfortable. She slides her gaze over to

him, their eyes meet, and she pins him to the spot.

He gets up and stands at the window. Pearl age fourteen

watches him closely as she drinks, then...

He looks over at her and she slides her coat off her shoulder.

Henry is sweating.

And he starts to leave. But Pearl sits up...

Henry stops and looks back at her.

Henry holds his head, tries to sober up. He looks around the

room, then focuses on the girl.

Pearl stares at the floor. She glances over at him, then

back down at the bottle gripped in her hands. She nods.

Henry pauses, then comes across the room, lowering himself

tentatively to the couch.

She says nothing for a moment, then...

Henry lifts his hand and covers his face. He looks up at the

ceiling and sighs. He returns to Pearl...

Pearl reaches over and grabs his thigh. Looking up at him,

with tears rolling down her face, she suggests...

Henry jumps away from her and Pearl throws herself down on

the couch, covering her face.

INT. VICKY'S HOUSE -- NIGHT

Moments later.

Henry barges in and starts searching for...

He runs through the house, checking the rooms. He throws

open the door to the bedroom and finds...

Vicky, sitting on the edge of the bed, smoking. She has a

black eye and a swollen cheek.

Henry looks over and sees Warren stumble drunkenly out of

the bathroom. What are you doing in my house?

Vicky looks troubled. She sits back down with a sigh.

Henry falls back and looks at Vicky. She looks away.

Henry looks at Warren, pauses, then gives him a sharp, hard

shove.

Warren stands back against the wall, pauses, then erupts

into viciousness.

He grabs Henry and throws him violently down the hall, where

he hits the wall and collapses.

As Henry gets to his knees, Warren kicks him in the ribs.

Henry curls up and rolls out on to the kitchen floor. Warren

kicks him in the side of the head.

Vicky sits back down on the bed, covering her ears.

Warren beats the hell out of Henry, kicking him in the face

and ribs whenever he manages to get up on his hands and knees.

Henry crawls under the kitchen table for safety. Warren grabs

his feet and drags him out. As he is dragged across the floor,

Henry finds a screwdriver and grabs it. He rolls over on his

back as...

Warren lunges down at him again and...

Warren is stabbed in the heart.

Henry can't believe it.

Warren can't believe it. He stands there in the middle of

the kitchen, amazed, with the screwdriver sticking out of

his chest.

Henry, semi-conscious and severely beaten, falls against the

back door and coughs up a few of his teeth. Vicky steps into

the hall from her room and shudders.

Warren sits at the table, stunned. He looks from the

screwdriver to Vicky, then...

He falls to the floor.

EXT. STREETS -- NIGHT

Henry staggers away, limping. He comes to the intersection

at the end of the block and doesn't know which way to run.

Panicked, he looks round, holding his arm to his chest. He

runs towards the highway.

INT. POLICE STATION -- NIGHT

Later.

Fay is wired beyond belief. Trying to listen attentively,

but still too overwhelmed to maintain her concentration.

Fay is overwhelmed.

Fay just looks at him blankly, overwhelmed, confused. She

starts to cry quietly.

Fay trembles and catches her breath trying to take this all

in. A cop hands her some tissues. She takes them and tries

to concentrate on what the lawyer says.

INT. POLICE STATION CORRIDOR -- NIGHT

Later.

Fay staggers out into the noisy corridor and rests against

the wall. Looking down the hall she sees...

Pearl and Vicky, sitting in a blank, brightly lit room beyond

a glass door.

Fay comes closer and looks in at them.

They don't see her. They stare at the floor before them,

dazed and confused.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Morning.

Fay is lying on her bed with her coat still on, trying to

think. Ned stands by the side of the bed, watching her.

He picks at the bedspread and looks at the ceiling, then...

He walks around to the other side of the bed and waits a

moment before...

Fay sits up, pauses and studies her son.

Ned is happy to hear this. He shuffles out of the room and

Fay falls back on the bed.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE KITCHEN -- DAY

Moments later.

Ned comes into the kitchen and digs through the drawers

beneath the sink. He finds an envelope. He reads the return

address: Chelsea Hotel, New York City.

EXT. SUBWAY -- DAY

Ned approaches the subway station and climbs the stairs to

the platform.

EXT. SUBWAY PLATFORM -- DAY

Moments later.

Ned runs up the stairs to the elevated platform just as a

train pulls into the station. He runs down a few cars and

hops in as the doors slide open.

INT. TRAIN -- DAY

Ned rides the train to New York City.

EXT. SUBWAY STOP -- DAY

Twenty minutes later.

He comes up out of the subway on to the street, looks around.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY -- DAY

He comes into the hotel and rings an annoying buzzer which

brings out the concierge, who is in his little office,

watching TV.

The concierge looks through his book as Ned waits.

Ned pulls the envelope from his pocket, unfolds it and shows

it to the concierge.

The concierge studies the envelope and hands it back.

Disappointed, Ned takes back the envelope and stands looking

at his sneakers.

Ned steps away from the front desk and moves towards the

door. But then he stops and looks back at...

The concierge, sitting back in his office, returning his

attention to the TV set.

The boy heads for the elevator.

The concierge looks up and sees him.

Ned checks his step and runs for the service stairs.

The concierge goes after him.

INT. HOTEL STAIRCASE -- DAY

Moments later.

Ned runs up the stairs, the concierge in pursuit.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR -- DAY

Moments later.

Ned jumps out into the hall, narrowly escaping the clutches

of the concierge, who falls to the floor.

Ned runs up the hall, checking the room numbers as the

concierge gets to his feet. He finds...

Room 423.

He knocks.

The concierge strides up the hall towards him.

Ned knocks again.

The concierge bears down upon him.

He knocks again and...

The door opens a crack, held by its safety chain. A female

figure in silhouette is at the narrow gap.

Ned looks from the door to the concierge approaching.

The concierge arrives and reaches out for him, but the door

opens wide and Ned dives in.

INT. HOTEL ROOM 423 -- DAY

Same time.

The concierge stands in the hallway. The door swings shut in

his face.

Ned kneels on the floor of the hotel room, waiting to be

smacked, or something.

But when nothing happens, he opens his eyes and looks back

over his shoulder at...

Laura, the secretary from the publishing house. She is dressed

for travel and has her coat hung over her arm, a suitcase in

her hand. She smiles at him, then looks from the boy to

someone across the room and...

Ned follows her gaze to find...

Simon, standing there before him, a suitcase in his hand as

well. He looks down at Ned with a calm, intrigued expression.

The boy looks up at him in awe.

Simon steps forward, pauses, then...

He does.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

A taxi pulls up. Simon and Ned climb out and Laura leans out

of the window.

They kiss. The taxi pulls away. Simon comes down beside Ned,

takes the boy by the shoulders and whispers in his ear.

The kid takes off.

Simon looks over at World of Donuts and sees Gnoc waiting

there at the door.

EXT. BEHIND WORLD OF DONUTS -- DAY

Gnoc leads Simon out through the kitchen. A band is seen

doing a sound check, inside.

Bunuel and Hawkes are waiting there, looking concerned.

Simon gives Bunuel his passport.

Bunuel nods and leaves.

Hawkes and Gnoc open the cellar doors.

INT. WORLD OF DONUTS BASEMENT -- DAY

Moments later.

Simon is lead down the stairs and stops. He looks on in horror

at...

Henry, lying on a makeshift bed, badly beaten up and weak.

Mr Deng is wrapping his chest in bandages.

Simon pauses, then comes closer. He reaches out and touches

Henry's shoulder, standing there looking down at his friend.

Henry looks up at him, pauses and then gestures vaguely with

his hand.

Simon thinks about this and looks away.

Henry thinks about that, sighs and looks away.

INT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Fay packs up the many books of the 'Confession' into one of

the old suitcases Henry first came to town with. She slams

it shut.

EXT. THE GRIM HOUSE -- DAY

Ned runs along the street and stops at the police car. He

points down the street with great urgency. The cops jump in

their cars and take off. He then looks over at...

Fay, leaving the house with Henry's suitcase.

EXT. WORLD OF DONUTS BACK ALLEY -- DAY

Same time.

Bunuel backs his car into the alley behind World of Donuts.

Stepping out of the car he hands Simon back the passport.

Simon checks it and then looks up to see...

Father Hawkes and Mr Deng helping Henry outside. Coming out

into the daylight, he straightens up and manages to walk on

his own. He motions Ned over and leans down to the kid with

difficulty.

Ned does. He has his own Zippo lighter and he proudly lights

his dad's cigarette.

Henry smokes, hugs Ned, then leans back and pauses. Finally...

Ned nods and Henry pats him on the shoulder. Then he stands

before Fay and looks at his feet. With her arms folded across

her chest and her hip cocked, she taps her foot impatiently

and waits for his last line of crap.

But then she looks at him and softens. He leans in and kisses

her passionately on the mouth.

Moments later, they all help Henry into Bunuel's car and

Simon gets in behind the wheel. The doors slam shut and Simon

steers the car slowly up the alley. Henry gazes out at Fay

running along beside the car with the rest of the

neighborhood, some of them laughing, some of them crying...

EXT. AIRPORT TERMINAL -- DAY

Simon pulls up at the curb and jumps out. He helps Henry

climb out and together they enter the terminal.

INT. AIRLINE TICKET COUNTER -- DAY

Moments later.

Henry steps up.

Henry hands them over. He glances back at...

Simon, waiting.

The clerk compares Henry to the picture in the passport,

checks again, then...

She types something more into the computer, then looks up

urgently.

INT. AIRPORT GATE -- DAY

Moments later.

Airline representatives come rushing up with walkie-talkies

to meet Henry and Simon as they run through the terminal.

As they are ushered up towards the gate, Henry stops and

looks off at the security guards and ground crew waiting for

him, certain they can spot him as a wanted criminal.

Henry is ushered through security. They take his ticket and

check his passport again. They take his suitcase and place

it on the conveyor belt. He passes through the metal detector.

They pass the metal detector wand over him and he stands

there with his hands outstretched, as...

Simon waits and watches.

The suitcase rolls out from the x-ray machine and as Henry

grabs it, he stops and looks across the security checkpoint

at...

Simon, standing there. He steps forward anxiously.

Henry lingers, speechless, but the airline representatives

are at his side...

They drag him away, but Henry looks back as...

Simon stops and watches.

EXT. AIRPORT RUNWAY -- DAY

Moments later.

The plane is waiting out on the asphalt and the airline

representative runs straight for it, calling back over her

shoulder to Henry...

Runway technicians rush to their positions, but Henry hangs

back and struggles across the tarmac, looking back over his

shoulder at...

Simon, behind the huge plate glass window of the terminal.

He stops and waits.

Simon raises his hand in farewell and...

Henry raises his in reply.

Then Simon, unheard behind the gigantic glass wall, silent

amongst the roar of the runway, says...

And Henry understands. He lowers his hand, waits just a

moment, then turns and looks out at...

The airplane. The airline representative is shouting at him

from the foot of the stairs and waving him on with her walkie-

talkie.

He glances back once more at Simon. Then...

Henry is running, struggling towards us, forcing himself

towards the plane, getting stronger and running faster with

every step he takes.

