EXT. STREET - DAY

A small kid, TJ FORNEY (13), with a grubby worn cast on his arm,

rides his BMX really fast down a street. He chases a tow truck

towing a badly wrecked red Volvo.

He struggles to keep up. The truck makes a turn. TJ follows,

turning dangerously in front of oncoming traffic.

The truck makes another turn. TJ turns with it, running straight

into the side of a car pulling out of a driveway. He comes off

his bike and is thrown across the hood. He picks himself up,

stunned. The driver of the car gets out to see if he's hurt.

TJ looks down the street to see the tow truck disappearing in

the distance. He hurries back to his bike. He jumps on and

continues after the truck.

TJ gives chase. He gains on the truck. He can see it pull into a

used car lot ahead - FAIR OAKS CAR CITY.

EXT. FAIR OAKS CAR CITY - DAY

TJ arrives at the car lot as the TOW TRUCK DRIVER is lowering

the car onto the drive. TJ dumps his bike, out of breath.

The driver continues working, unhooking the car from the truck.

The driver nods in the direction of LARRY TOWERS, who is

approaching with 17 year-old DUSTIN HOWARD and another man,

TONY, in dirty overalls.

Larry shakes the tow truck driver's hand.

Larry smiles at the little out-of-breath kid.

Tony flips through a stack of papers he's holding.

The car has now been lowered off the back of the tow truck.

Larry moves away from TJ and approaches the driver.

Tony looks through his papers for the work order. TJ doesn't

like being ignored. He moves around to the driver's side of the

wrecked car and wrenches open the bashed-in door. He climbs

behind the wheel, slams the door shut and locks the door.

TJ ignores him. Larry doesn't have time for this.

Dustin moves around to the open driver's side window.

TJ turns the key and begins winding the window up. Dustin

reaches in trying to unlock the door.

The window is rising. Dustin grabs at TJ. TJ keeps winding the

window. It gets to the top, trapping Dustin's arm.

Dustin is stuck. Larry, Bill and Tony laugh. Dustin yells at TJ.

TJ ignores him, staring straight ahead.

The men laugh some more. Dustin's humiliation sets in.

Larry goes around to the passenger's side broken window and

opens the door. He leans in and easily drags TJ out of the car.

TJ's not getting the car back. The men continue laughing at the

trapped Dustin. TJ picks up his bike and rides away defeated.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - NIGHT

TJ sits at the kitchen table with his tiny 85 year-old GRANDMA

and his depressed and dishevelled DAD, Paul Forney (45). Dad has

a full shaggy beard and a recently healed wound on his forehead.

They eat in silence. There's tension in the air.

TJ fumes. They eat in silence a bit more. TJ drops his fork and

leaves the table, angry.

Dad is a mess.

Grandma nods quietly.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / BATHROOM - MORNING

TJ gives his mouth a once over with a toothbrush. He spits, then

sets his toothbrush down on the edge of the sink.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TV ROOM - MORNING

TJ stands holding a banana and wearing a backpack in front of

the couch where his dad is sleeping. Dad is lying face down,

half-covered with a sheet, his leg hanging off the side. There's

dirty plates and pill bottles on the coffee table in what is

otherwise an old lady's living room. Dad stirs, it's a pathetic

sight.

TJ taps Dad's leg with his foot. Dad slowly comes to life and

notices TJ.

Dad sits up on the couch, he looks a total mess. Dad pick up his

wallet from the mess of a coffee table and hands TJ a few

dollars.

TJ exits, leaving Dad sitting there. Dad sets his wallet back

down and stares blankly into the room. We hear the door slam in

the background.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE - MORNING

TJ on his BMX pedals down the drive and out onto the street.

EXT. STREET - MOMENTS LATER

TJ pedals in the middle of a suburban street. He steers his bike

with his broken arm as he tries to peel and eat the banana with

the other. He glides down a hill. It's a long hill. He travels

fast.

Despite the glide and the wind in his hair he's slouching and

looks depressed.

EXT. HOUSING DEVELOPMENT - MOMENTS LATER

TJ rides his bike through an eerily barren unfinished housing

development - half-built houses and perfectly sealed wide

streets.

Up ahead, he can see a small section of unfinished road - a big

patch of dirt and rocks. He veers up a driveway to avoid it. He

passes the dirt patch and then comes down off the curb back onto

the road, trying to keep control of his bike. He hits the road

and loses his balance. The handlebars twist and he crashes onto

the road.

He jumps up and yelps in pain, clutching his elbow. He looks at

it. It's badly grazed. He yelps again, angry. He picks up a rock

lying in the street and charges towards an unfinished house. He

hurls the rock through its front window. Glass crashes down.

A silent beat passes, and then the front door of the house opens

and a late-20s, long-greasy-haired, wiry shirtless guy in filthy

black jeans emerges. He has a baby moustache and a cracked front

tooth. This is HESHER. He makes a determined line toward TJ.

Before TJ can back away Hesher grabs him by the back of his T-

shirt and drags him kicking and squealing towards the house.

INT. HALF-BUILT HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Hesher drags TJ into the unfinished front room. He slams TJ

against an uncoated drywall. Hesher pulls a pair of garden

shears from his back pocket and squeezes TJ's nose between the

blades.

TJ is terrified. He squirms.

Hesher stares intimidatingly at TJ. TJ looks seriously scared.

Hesher is suddenly startled. His ears prick up like a rabbit. He

hits the deck dragging TJ down with him. Their faces are close

together. Hesher makes a very serious finger-to-mouth gesture to

'shhhh'.

The SOUND of a car idling outside. Hesher listens.

TJ is on his stomach, freaked. TJ looks around the room - a

duffel bag, some beer cans, a few porn magazines, a weathered

bass guitar and a sleeping bag.

A car door closes loudly. Hesher peers through the window and

sees a SECURITY GUARD inspecting TJ's bike in the front yard and

then making his way toward the house.

Hesher looks at TJ with serious and considered venom.

Hesher snaps into action. With speed and precision he gathers

his stuff together. He shoves it all his duffel bag.

Hesher lights the fuse on a stick of homemade dynamite wrapped

in duct tape and throws it through the broken window. He then

slips out the back door, leaving TJ face down on the floor

freaked out and confused.

BOOM! Dirt sprays against the house and pours in through the

window. TJ cowers, then hears the guttural roar of a van

starting up. He hears the van screech away.

TJ jumps to his feet and looks out the window. A dirty black van

screams out onto the road and tears away, spraying dirt and

rocks in its wake. The security guard stumbles around, covered

in dirt and disoriented. He rushes back to his car and gives

chase. TJ lets them get away up the street, then bolts to the

front door.

EXT. HOUSING DEVELOPMENT - CONTINUOUS

TJ darts for his bike. He picks it up and rides off quickly.

EXT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL - MORNING

Outside a public high school, kids mill around before class.

Lots of noise.

TJ rides down a path and clocks Dustin Howard, the kid from the

car lot, who stands talking with friends by his car - a shiny

2007 YELLOW CONVERTIBLE MUSTANG. They spot each other. TJ

quickly looks away (oh shit) and b-lines for the bike rack.

INT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / HALL - DAY

TJ opens his locker. He pulls out a clear zip-lock bag with a

rotten apple inside. He looks at it a moment then puts it back

in the locker.

A kid puts his hand on TJ's shoulder.

Another kid comes over, eating a bagel.

TJ nods, despondent, putting books into his backpack.

Awkward beat. TJ doesn't want to make chit-chat. People are

already making him feel weird.

The kids steps away, feeling awkward.

INT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / CLASSROOM - DAY

TJ sits in class, at the back near the window. The teacher, MRS

ELSBERRY, a big African-American lady, is taking roll. Kids

answer as their names are called.

TJ gives a half hearted nod. The class turns to look at him. A

couple whisper. TJ looks away. The teacher continues taking

roll.

EXT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / FOOTBALL FIELD - DAY

TJ is in gym class, another roll call. TJ looks up.

He notices a guy high up in the bleachers smoking a cigarette

and staring at him through long hair.

TJ looks concerned. Is this Hesher, the guy with the garden

shears?

INT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / HALL - DAY

TJ is walking down the hall. He looks over and sees Hesher who's

wearing a Misfits "Skull" T-shirt, watching him through the

crowd.

Suddenly TJ is grabbed and slammed against a locker. It's Dustin

Howard and his posse. Dustin towers over him.

TJ attempts to walk away. Dustin pushes him against the locker.

TJ tries to walk away again.

Dustin slams him again. TJ stays put.

TJ tries to walk. Dustin slams him.

TJ tries to leave again, Dustin pushes him again.

TJ tries to walk away. Dustin grabs him and throws him down.

TJ squirms trying to free himself, kicking wildly. One of TJ's

kicks catches Dustin. Dustin punches him. A crowd quickly

gathers.

INT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / COUNSELLOR'S OFFICE - DAY

The school COUNSELLOR flips through papers in a file.

The counsellor cuts him off.

TJ shakes his head. He gives up on this conversation. He looks

out the window. Hesher is out there - smoking and watching.

TJ is suddenly unnerved.

EXT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL - LATE AFTERNOON

It's after school. TJ walks out to his bike. It's the last one

left on the rack. Only a couple of other kids are still on

campus. TJ looks around. He jumps on his bike and quickly rides

off.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

TJ enters the house, which is quiet except for the sounds of a

TV. There are no lights on so it feels dark.

He walks past the TV room, the TV is on. Dad is on his back,

fast asleep, mouth wide open. He barely seems alive, until he

makes a small whimper. His mouth closes, he swallows, then his

mouth drops open again.

TJ picks up the remote control from a mess of empty pill bottles

on the coffee table and switches off the TV.

TJ walks past the kitchen and drops his backpack.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / GRANDMA'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

TJ walks past his grandma's bedroom. The door is open. He gently

knocks. She's sitting up in bed, reading.

TJ stands in the doorway. Grandma takes off her glasses.

TJ thinks for a moment.

Grandma looks at TJ with an empathetic nod.

She holds her glasses up for closer inspection.

Grandma holds the glasses in different positions.

She give this a moment of thought.

She seems almost tickled by this. She slips her bookmark in her

book and puts it on her bedside table.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - EVENING

TJ sits at the kitchen table alone staring at a cute and happy

bunny salt and pepper shakers. He can see in through to the TV

room where Grandma is shaking Dad awake on the couch for dinner

and holding a glass of milk for him.

Dad lifts himself off the couch. Grandma hands him the glass of

milk.

Dad shuffles into the kitchen and takes his seat at the table.

Dad empties a couple of pills into his palm and downs them with

milk. TJ forks his food around his plate.

Dad looks up but doesn't seem to notice TJ's bruised face.

Dad scrapes a mouthful onto his fork, avoiding the good

question. A moment passes. TJ stares at him.

Dad's eyes are lowered. He stares at his plate. TJ watches him,

feeling powerless.

They eat in silence.

TJ passes the bunny salt shaker.

Grandma looks up at TJ with a small grin. She sets the salt

shaker down.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

TJ sits on the bed in a doctor's office. The DOCTOR is cutting

off his cast with a little buzz saw.

The doctor pulls the cast free and inspects TJ's arm. It is pale

and skinny compared to the other.

The doctor demonstrates. TJ imitates.

The doctor twists his wrist in a different direction. TJ does

the same. The doctor looks for a pen.

The doctor writes the note. While he does so he makes chit chat.

INT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / CLASSROOM - DAY

Mrs. Elsberry drones on from the front of the class.

TJ sits in the back of the class, by the window.

A little pebble hits TJ's desk. It bounces onto the floor. TJ

looks around to find where it came from - and then another one

hits him in the head.

He looks out the window. Hesher is right outside the window. He

takes the cap off of a large BLACK MAGIC MARKER. He holds it up

to his nose and takes a long slow inhale. He exhales slow and

long, staring hard at TJ.

TJ looks around confused. Hesher recaps the marker, throws it

hard at TJ and wanders off. The marker hits TJ, then falls to

floor near his feet. He reaches for it. Mrs. Elsberry sees this.

TJ passes the marker forward. Mrs. Elsberry sets the marker on

her desk.

She continues back to the chalkboard.

EXT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL - AFTERNOON

It's after school. Kids are leaving campus. TJ wheels his bike

across the school yard.

EXT. STREET - MOMENTS LATER

TJ rides his bike down the street. Dustin's YELLOW MUSTANG

appears beside him. Dustin is boiling.

We see that someone has drawn - in BIG BLACK MARKER - a crude

picture of a body, sitting on a toilet with a big erect penis.

The picture is drawn on the side of Dustin's Mustang door, so

his real head lines up with the drawing. It's drawn in

perspective so it looks like Dustin's head is attached to the

naked defecating body to outsiders. The words 'SUCK MY COCK'

have been scrawled beside the picture. Dustin swerves the car

toward TJ, narrowly missing him. TJ cuts into a large super

market parking lot, attempting to get away.

Dustin accelerates ahead of TJ and screeches to a halt in front

of him, cutting him off, almost hitting him. TJ stumbles and

falls off his bike. His bike lands on top of him.

Dustin jumps out of his car and starts beating TJ in the middle

of parking lot traffic. TJ struggles just to protect himself,

cowering on the ground and covering his head. Dustin tries to

wrestle TJ free of the bike so as to get a clearer shot at him.

He drags TJ by his T-shirt, ripping it off in the process.

And then a WOMAN'S VOICE -

Dustin ignores the voice. He continues beating TJ.

Dustin ignores again.

Dustin ignores one last time - a beat passes, then the woman,

NICOLE (mid-20s), appears behind Dustin and jumps onto his back,

bear hugging his face.

Dustin shakes erratically, Nicole has a tight grip on him, but

eventually Dustin manages to throw her onto the ground.

Nicole picks herself up off the ground and holds up her fists

like she's ready to fight. She doesn't look very tough.

Nicole stands defiantly between Dustin and TJ. Dustin looks

around at the scene he's created in the street. A man steps out

of his car. Dustin realizes it's time to go.

He gets back into his car, slams the door and speeds off.

Nicole watches him go, then helps TJ up. TJ is shirtless,

scrawny, dirty and traumatized.

TJ grabs his T-shirt and pulls it back on. He picks his bike up

off the ground and hops on. He goes to peddle, but the chain is

busted. His peddling goes nowhere.

INT. NICOLE'S CAR - DAY

Nicole drives. TJ is in the passenger seat. TJ's bike is crammed

in the back.

She thinks about this for a beat. TJ is silent.

TJ notices an ice-cream cone sitting in a cup-holder between the

seats.

She tries to pick it up, suddenly flustered. It drips

everywhere. She doesn't know what to do with it. It's too melted

to eat.

She throws it out the window.

TJ looks over confused.

TJ is silent, he has no idea how to respond to this girl. She

spots a gas station.

She quickly makes an illegal turn into oncoming traffic. Cars

honk at her.

INT. NICOLE'S CAR / GAS STATION - DAY

They pull up next to a gas pump.

She gets out of the car.

Nicole walks off. TJ watches her for a beat then his eye wanders

over the contents of her messy car. He picks up a white name tag

from the coin tray between the seats. It reads:

RALPH'S - Hi my name is NICOLE, how can I help you?

TJ looks up and sees Nicole heading back to the car. He puts the

name tag down as the car door opens and Nicole gets in. She

hands him a stick of red licorice covered in green sugar.

INT. NICOLE'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Nicole and TJ are driving. They eat sour licorice. TJ's not

enjoying it, but not wanting her to know this.

TJ doesn't know what to make of her.

Holding up the licorice, then taking a bite.

She smiles at that. TJ attempts to smile back, but he's so

confused he ends up making a strange face. He awkwardly looks

away.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE - DAY

Nicole's car pulls up. TJ gets out and notices a dirty black van

creeping slowly around the corner toward them. This makes him

very nervous.

He hurries to the door.

TJ turns.

TJ notices his bike still in Nicole's back seat.

TJ rushes back. He drags it out of her car.

He wheels it back towards the house. TJ goes around the side of

the house to the back door. He knocks on the back door. Grandma

appears at the door.

Grandma lets TJ in. TJ is nervous.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

TJ heads for the living room.

But TJ isn't listening. He can't stop thinking about that black

van. He exits the kitchen.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / FRONT DOOR - DAY

TJ walks the hall carefully to the front door. He squints

through the peephole.

The black van is parked directly in front of the house. TJ can't

see properly through the hole.

He turns, to get a better look through the TV room window.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TV ROOM - CONTINUOUS

TJ turns to the living room. There is Hesher standing in the

middle of the room with a dirty duffel bag over his shoulder.

TJ is petrified. They stand looking at each other for a long

moment.

TJ points to a door off the lounge.

Hesher stares at him for a second, then heads for the door.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / LAUNDRY - CONTINUOUS

Hesher empties his sack into the washing machine. TJ steps into

the room, wary. Hesher ignores him.

Hesher strips off his T-shirt and jeans and add them to the

load. He's now standing in the laundry room wearing underwear

only. TJ sees bad burn scars running down Hesher's thighs.

Hesher pours laundry detergent liberally into the machine.

Hesher turns on a dime and grabs TJ by his throat and pins him

against the wall.

He closes the lid. He wrenches the dial around and clicks

'start'. The machine begins a loud cycle. Hesher exits. TJ

follows awkwardly.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TV ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Hesher sits in the middle of the couch and lights a cigarette.

Hesher drags deep and blows the smoke out in a long whistle

straight into the air above him.

Hesher flicks his cigarette, ashing on the floor.

Hesher looks at him and ashes on the couch.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - DAY

TJ enters the kitchen. Grandma is crumbing chicken fillets at

the counter. She's listening to loud talk radio. TJ goes

straight for the cupboards and looks through them.

Grandma turns, eyebrows raised. She turns the radio down.

TJ gets down on his knees and digs his way through the cupboard

while Grandma rambles, continuing her chicken crumbing.

TJ emerges from the cupboard with a bowl. He turns toward the

sink and begins to fill it with water.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TV ROOM - CONTINUOUS

TJ enters, carrying the bowl.

Hesher is on the couch, smoking. The TV is now on. He flips

channels.

TJ stands next to Hesher. Hesher looks at him.

The front door opens and Dad enters, wearing old sweatpants, a

dirty T-shirt, and carrying a plastic grocery bag.

He stops when he sees the practically naked, greasy-haired guy

smoking on the couch (his 'bed'). It's a strange moment.

After a long uncomfortable silence, Hesher stands and extends

his hand.

Paul has to rearrange the bags to shake his hand. Hesher sits

back down.

They stand looking at each other. TJ is just plain stressed out.

Hesher continues flipping channels. He's not finding anything he

wants.

Hesher gets up off the couch and exits the room.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Hesher enters the kitchen. Grandma is still crumbing chicken.

He starts going through drawers right next to her. He doesn't

acknowledge her.

Grandma notices him, but not seemingly his cigarette, his state

of undress or his complete stranger-ness.

His cigarette is done. He flicks it into the sink. It sizzles

out. He opens another drawer.

Dad enters with his grocery bag.

Hesher shuts the drawer. He's holding a fork.

He exits the kitchen.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE / BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Hesher strides across the back lawn in his underwear.

TJ and Dad step out the door and watch him.

Hesher reaches a telephone pole and climbs it nimbly like a

monkey. At the top, he fiddles around with the fork, banging and

wrenching at the cable box.

He drops the fork to the ground and begins his descent. Only a

couple of feet from the ground, he loses his grip and falls,

crashing down into a thick bush at the base of the pole.

TJ and Dad stand staring frozen.

Hesher lifts himself up out of the bushes, brushes himself off

and heads back to the house.

He walks right past them and back inside.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TV ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Hesher sits back down on the couch and begins to flip through

the newly acquired channels. He finds porn and drops the remote

down beside him. He sits back and watches girl-on-girl action.

TJ and Dad stand just inside the TV room, stunned, watching the

newly acquired porn.

Then a LOUD BUZZ marking the end of the wash's cycle sounds from

the laundry room.

Hesher gets up off the couch and heads for it.

A stunned and silent (bar the porn noise) moment later, TJ

follows.

Dad picks up the remote and switches the TV off.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / LAUNDRY - CONTINUOUS

Hesher loads his wet laundry into the dryer. TJ's nervous.

Hesher slams the dryer door shut and wrenches the dial around.

The dryer starts up loud. Hesher pretends he can't hear TJ.

He turns and looks into the garage which is right off the

laundry room. He points inside.

Hesher walks into the garage with his bag and slams the door

leaving TJ standing in the laundry room with the noisy dryer.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / DINING ROOM - NIGHT

TJ sits at the dinner table with Dad and Grandma. From the

garage we hear a muffled bass guitar playing loud and heavy.

TJ doesn't respond. He eats. Dad looks on perplexed, yet

disconnected.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / BATHROOM - MORNING

TJ is dressed for school, wet hair. He brushes his teeth. We can

hear the sound of cartoons in the background. TJ stops brushing

and listens a second. He hasn't heard cartoons at this hour in a

long time.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TV ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

TJ enters the TV room. Dad is lying on the couch. Hesher sits on

an armchair eating a bowl of cereal and watching cartoons.

TJ stands for a beat and watches them. This is strange.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

TJ enters the kitchen. Grandma pulls a bottle of orange juice

out of the fridge.

TJ goes to the counter. He pours cereal into a bowl. He grabs

the milk carton. He pours it into the bowl, but the carton's

empty.

TJ leans back and looks into the TV room at Hesher enjoying his

milky cereal.

TJ grabs his backpack.

EXT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / LUNCH YARD - DAY

The lunch yard is busy. The crowd clears a moment and we find TJ

sitting on a bench in the shade, alone and depressed, hidden

away from the other kids.

He drinks from a can of soda.

EXT. FAIR OAKS CAR CITY - DAY

TJ rides his bike into the car lot.

TJ stands staring at the crashed red Volvo (from the opening

scene) that is parked on the lot. He takes a few deep breaths.

INT. FAIR OAKS CAR CITY / OFFICE - DAY

TJ walks up to an open office door and knocks. Inside is LARRY

TOWERS. He looks up.

TJ enters and sits opposite.

Larry takes a breath. He doesn't want to be having this

conversation. He counts the obstacles out on his fingers.

For a second it seems Larry feels sympathetic toward TJ.

TJ churns all this over in his head. Larry thinks he's made

himself clear. He motions to the papers on his desk.

EXT. FAIR OAKS CAR CITY / OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

TJ walks out of Larry's office, forlorn. He walks across the

showroom, head down, mumbling angrily to himself.

He is stopped by a hand on his chest. It's Dustin.

EXT. STREET - DAY

TJ sits on his bike staring at a Ralph's supermarket.

INT. RALPH'S SUPERMARKET - MOMENTS LATER

Nicole is at the checkout, checking grocery items. She finishes

with a customer and TJ appears next in line, with an ice cream

cone.

Nicole is a little taken aback.

TJ smiles awkwardly. He hands her the cone.

He points to the ice cream counter on the other side of the

store.

She holds the cone, not quite sure what to do with it, not quite

sure how to take this kid.

TJ walks away.

Nicole watches him leave while a line of customers wait to be

served. She smiles at the next customer, sharing the moment.

She starts checking the customer's items, still holding her

melting cone. She looks up out the door. She can see TJ outside,

shaking his head and mumbling to himself. He feels like an

idiot.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE - EVENING

TJ enters the house. Dad isn't on the couch. He heads for the

kitchen. He stops abruptly in the doorway.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Hesher and Grandma are at the counter. Grandma is baking an

apple pie. Hesher is joyfully eating the apple slices she is

preparing for the pie. They don't notice TJ.

Grandma makes a clicking sound with her tongue on the roof of

her mouth.

Hesher finds Grandma's story amusing, he laughs, never losing a

beat while eating the delicious apple slices.

Grandma notices that TJ is standing in the doorway.

Hesher glances over, he clearly doesn't give a shit about TJ. TJ

is not impressed with Hesher either.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - NIGHT

TJ, Grandma, Dad and Hesher all sit at the dinner table.

They eat in an awkward silence. Grandma breaks the ice.

Again silence. Clearly no one is jumping at this opportunity.

Silence again. The sounds of chewing add to the awkwardness of

this dinner.

Everyone turns toward Hesher. This is the first thing to come

out of his mouth all night. He's looking at TJ.

Grandma lights up.

Dad stops chewing. TJ looks at Hesher like he's crazy.

Everyone continues to eat in silence. TJ stares at Hesher who is

shovelling food into his mouth.

EXT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / LUNCH YARD - DAY

TJ sits alone in the busy yard, nibbling halfheartedly on

crackers from his lunch bag.

Kid 1 from the locker scene earlier appears beside him.

TJ gets up reluctantly, then notices Hesher walking across the

yard towards the bathroom followed by an EMO KID with a

skateboard.

TJ walks off, following Hesher. Kid 1 watches TJ walk off toward

the bathroom.

INT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / BATHROOM - DAY

TJ enters the bathroom. He hears voices coming from a back

stall. He walks towards them.

In the end stall TJ finds Hesher finishing a drug deal with the

Emo kid. Hesher hands him a bag of pot. The kid hands him money.

TJ stands and watches. The kid leaves.

Hesher shoves the money in his pocket, ignoring TJ. He unzips

his fly and turns to urinate in the bowl.

TJ notices that he isn't actually urinating in the bowl. He's

spraying his pee all over the seat and the lid and the wall and

the floor. He finishes and zips up. He turns and shoves past TJ.

Hesher looks at his hair in the mirror, then exits. TJ watches

him leave, frustrated. He follows him out.

INT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / HALL - CONTINUOUS

TJ sees Hesher disappear through the crowd. From behind, TJ is

grabbed and dragged back into the bathroom.

INT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL / BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

TJ is swung by his backpack across the bathroom. His backpack

gets ripped off him and he goes down, sliding across the pissy

floor. He looks up. It's Dustin, seriously angry. TJ leaps up

and shoves Dustin back. Dustin stumbles backwards and trips over

TJ's bag in the middle of the bathroom floor.

Dustin falls and lands on his ass. He flounders embarrassingly.

TJ knows he's a dead man.

Dustin jumps up and grabs TJ by the back of his head. He shoves

TJ's face down onto the filthy urinal tray. TJ struggles.

Dustin holds TJ's head down in the tray. He shoves his face into

the little yellow urinal deodorizer cake.

TJ goes to lift himself up. Dustin punches him and then stands,

putting his foot on TJ's neck, jamming TJ's head into the tray.

He pushes the flusher. The urinal flushes all over TJ's face.

Hesher comes back into the bathroom. Dustin turns and looks at

him, sensing danger. TJ looks up from the bathroom floor, eyes

pleading for help. Hesher walks calmly towards TJ and Dustin.

But instead of saving TJ, he walks straight past them and into

the stall where he just completed his drug deal.

He grabs his cigarette lighter from the top of toilet tank. He

lights a cigarette, takes a long drag, blows the smoke in the

air and walks back out again. Dustin watches him go. He puts

another boot into TJ.

EXT. FAIR OAKS HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

TJ waits with his bike in the street outside the school. He's

beat up, wet and dirty. School's out. Most kids have already

left. Dad pulls up in Grandma's maroon Buick. He gets out and

opens the back door for TJ's bike.

Dad takes TJ's bike and starts trying to fit it in the backseat.

TJ stands watching his Dad struggle with the bike.

INT. COMMUNITY CENTER - DAY

TJ and Dad sit on beanbags set out in a circle of about 12.

Eight of these beanbags have people sitting on them - adults and

a few kids. Some drink tea and coffee from little styrofoam

cups. The tone is sombre. Dad and TJ look unsure of themselves.

The chairperson of the meeting is MERYL, a 42 year-old grief

counsellor.

A heavy set woman, COLEEN, and her husband, JACK, sit on

beanbags looking pale and sad.

She can't go on. Her husband Jack sets his hand on her shoulder.

She is able to hold back the tears.

Weird silence.

Dad shuffles in his seat, looks around the group.

Dad finishes mid-sentence, then brief silence.

Meryl waits to see if TJ has anything more to add. He doesn't.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE / DRIVEWAY - NIGHT

Dad and TJ pull into the driveway of the Forney house. Hesher's

van is parked haphazardly on the lawn. TJ looks at it with venom

- a reminder of the afternoon.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE - NIGHT

TJ bursts through the front door.

He walks through the TV room to the laundry room. He rips open

the door to the garage and flicks on the light. It's empty

except for a little pile of Hesher's stuff.

He walks back through the living room as Dad walks in through

the front door, closing it behind him.

TJ heads to the kitchen.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

TJ enters the kitchen. Grandma is baking.

TJ exits the kitchen. He walks the hall to the bathroom. He

turns the handle and enters.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / BATHROOM - NIGHT

Hesher is having a bubble bath, smoking a cigarette, totally

calm. TJ immediately lets rip.

Hesher ignores TJ. He watches him closely. He calmly takes a

drag of his cigarette and ashes into the bath.

Hesher flicks his butt in the bath and pulls the plug. He stays

reclined as the water starts gurgling down the drain.

Hesher stands. He's totally naked. He doesn't care. TJ waits for

him to say something. Anything.

Hesher steps out of the bath, dripping wet, naked.

TJ shoves him. Hesher, in a flash, grabs TJ by throat and slams

him against the wall. He holds him there for a second, staring

at him intensely.

Hesher lets go of TJ and walks out of the bathroom naked.

INT. HESHER'S VAN - NIGHT

TJ and Hesher drive through the dark streets of Fair Oaks.

Hesher finishes a cigarette. Wind blows in his hair. The van

rattles. The Sex Pistol's 'Anarchy in the UK' is blasting. TJ is

still angry.

Hesher ignores him.

After a beat, TJ turns the music down.

Hesher turns the music back up. TJ is confused.

Hesher drives into a gas station and pulls on the handbrake. He

lights another cigarette.

EXT. GAS STATION / VAN - CONTINUOUS

Hesher gets out of the van and slams the door shut. He goes

around the back of the van and opens the back doors. He pulls

something out and shuts the doors again.

Through the side-view mirror, TJ can see Hesher filling up a big

beat-up plastic gas container. He continues to smoke.

INT. HESHER'S VAN - LATER

Hesher brings the van to a quiet halt across the street from a

suburban house. He kills the engine and surveys the area.

TJ has no idea where they are.

TJ catches himself asking questions, but stops himself mid-

sentence. He looks out the window and across the street and sees

Dustin Howard's YELLOW MUSTANG parked in the drive.

Hesher smiles to himself - he's looking forward to this. He

opens the van door and climbs out. TJ is in a quiet panic.

EXT. DUSTIN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Hesher opens the van's back doors and grabs the container of

gasoline. TJ appears beside him, still panicked.

Hesher makes his way across the street toward the house and the

yellow Mustang.

He pours gasoline all over the car. He does this with confidence

- he's clearly had some practice.

Hesher ignores him and continues dousing the car with gas.

The porch light comes on. Someone peels open the front window

curtains and looks out. TJ and Hesher drop to the ground behind

the Mustang. TJ is terrified. He looks over to Hesher who is

smiling, in his element, this is the happiest we have seen him.

The curtains close but the porch light stays on. Unfazed, Hesher

hops back up and empties the gas can onto the Mustang.

Hesher stands a moment, admiring the car, saying a silent

goodbye to it perhaps, as he pulls a single bent cigarette from

his pocket.

He straightens it, then lights it with a match.

Hesher takes one long drag on the cigarette, then calmly flicks

the still lit match onto the Mustang.

Instantly, it erupts in flames.

Hesher picks up the gas can and walks calmly back to the van. TJ

follows still franticly looking back at the car and the house.

Hesher gets in the van and throws the gas can into the back.

TJ goes to the passenger door.

It's locked. He wrestles the handle, panicking.

Hesher starts the van and pulls away, leaving TJ stranded in the

street.

The front door of the house opens and a woman appears on the

porch. Discovering the car in flames, she screams.

TJ takes off, running across the street and through a neighbor's

yard, down the side of the neighbor's house, with the woman on

the porch screaming at him.

EXT. STREETS & BACKYARDS - NIGHT

TJ runs. He jumps fences and slips down the sides of houses.

He's running fast and breathing hard.

He finds his way out onto another dark and quiet street.

He stops. He has no idea where he is or where to go.

Then - HEADLIGHTS appear at the end of the street. They bear

down on him slowly. TJ stands immobile. He can now see it is

Hesher's van, approaching slow and menacing.

The van stops about 10 feet from TJ. A moment's stand off.

Then Hesher sticks his head out the window.

TJ doesn't move. He stares. Hesher REVS the engine.

Hesher revs the engine some more. TJ still doesn't move.

Hesher FLOORS THE VAN.

ON TJ - the headlights of the van bear down on him.

Hesher slams on the brakes and the van screeches to a halt

inches from TJ's nose. TJ doesn't flinch.

He and Hesher stare at each other through the windshield.

Hesher smiles. He's impressed.

TJ walks around to the passenger door.

INT. HESHER'S VAN - CONTINUOUS

TJ climbs in the passenger seat of the van. He's surly.

Hesher suddenly freezes, looks round, motions for TJ to 'shhh'.

TJ looks around everywhere. What's coming?

Then Hesher lets out a FART. He laughs. He puts the van in gear

and drives. He cranks up the music.

TJ stares at Hesher for a moment, then looks straight ahead

shaking his head.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TJ'S ROOM - DAY

TJ wakes in bed, still shell-shocked from the previous night. He

sits up and rubs his eyes.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

TJ stands at the sink and begins to brush his teeth.

He hears the DOORBELL RING.

He hears muffled voices outside.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / HALL - CONTINUOUS

TJ exits the bathroom, still brushing and walks the hall toward

the voices. Hesher is standing shirtless in the front doorway

eating a banana, blocking the view to outside.

As TJ nears the front door, Hesher turns and moves away to

reveal Grandma talking to two uniformed police officers.

Hesher disappears back into the house, smiling at TJ as he

passes.

TJ turns. His Dad is now sitting up on the couch, blinking in

the light. He's in his boxers. His hair's a mess. He's dopey.

He's just woken up.

Hesher emerges from the kitchen, heading back to the garage,

carrying a glass of orange juice.

INT. POLICE STATION - DAY

TJ's MUG-SHOT is taken.

TJ's FINGERPRINTS are taken.

TJ and his Dad sit in an interview room. Dad looks confused,

dopey and dishevelled. A uniformed police officer enters with a

file. He shuts the door and sits.

TJ nods, his dad looks on.

INT. GRANDMA'S CAR - DAY

TJ's in the passenger seat. His dad drives. They sit in silence

for a little while. Then dad speaks-

TJ pauses before answering.

TJ ignores him, stares out the car window.

Dad pulls the car into the driveway and comes to an abrupt stop.

Hesher is sitting in a lawn chair in the middle of the driveway,

sunbathing with his shirt off, drinking beer. He has a farmer's

tan.

TJ jumps out. Dad stares at Hesher from inside the car.

TJ walks past Hesher without looking at him.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TJ'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

TJ enters and slams his door shut. TJ sits on his bed. Hesher

enters without warning.

Hesher feigns concern.

Hesher holds up his thumb and index finger to show the size of a

dumpling. TJ shakes his head, he's not finding this funny.

Hesher constricts all the muscles on his face imitating a

dumpling, he looks ridiculous. TJ tries to hold back a smile,

but Hesher looks so absurd he can't.

TJ shakes his head, fighting a smile.

And Hesher is gone in a flash.

INT. SUPERMARKET / CANNED GOODS AISLE - DAY

TJ is hiding, peering down an aisle, watching Nicole working at

the check out scanning groceries. A can falls from one of the

shelves just in front of him. It startles him. And then another

one falls. He steps along the shelf to where the cans fell. He

looks through to the next aisle. Nothing. Then a voice from

behind him.

TJ is startled. Hesher stands behind him, also watching Nicole.

TJ is freaked and embarrassed. He walks away down the aisle.

Hesher follows.

TJ walks ahead fast. He wants out of this conversation.

Nicole finishes up, turns her light off and hangs a 'Check Stand

Closed' sign. She walks off toward the back of the store. TJ

stops to be sure to avoid her.

Hesher says this a little too loud. Nearby shoppers look over.

TJ shakes his head, then exits the store. Hesher follows.

EXT. RALPH'S SUPERMARKET / PARKING LOT - DAY

TJ unlocks his bike from a pole.

TJ gets onto his bike.

TJ clearly doesn't want to ride his bike home, but his is

reluctant to go with Hesher.

EXT. RALPH'S SUPERMARKET / PARKING LOT - MOMENTS LATER

TJ and Hesher load TJ's bike into the back of Hesher's van.

Hesher closes the back doors and they get in.

INT. HESHER'S VAN - CONTINUOUS

He waits a beat for TJ to respond. TJ is still mad, he says

nothing.

TJ looks at Hesher, doubting his sincerity.

Hesher reaches into the back of the van and picks up a dirty

magazine. He flips through some pages and shows TJ a photo.

TJ pushes the magazine away, disgusted.

Hesher spots Nicole getting into her car. He drops the magazine

on TJ's lap and fires up the engine.

TJ spots Nicole.

Hesher puts the car in gear and begins to follow Nicole's car

out of the parking lot.

TJ opens the door. Hesher grabs his arm.

Hesher means business. TJ is silent and back on edge.

Nicole drives through the parking lot. Hesher follows her out of

the lot and into the street.

INT. HESHER'S VAN / STREET - MOMENTS LATER

Hesher bobs his head in time with a heavy metal track that

blasts from the stereo.

TJ is ignoring Hesher, looking straight ahead at Nicole's car.

Nicole stops at a red light behind another car. Hesher pulls up

behind her and starts playing air drums to the track.

The light turns green. Nicole hits the gas, running straight

into the back of the car in front which hadn't started moving

yet.

TJ's first impulse is to duck. Hesher watches the road. We hear

the sounds of an angry DRIVER yelling at Nicole.

Through the windscreen we see the guy get out of his car,

yelling at Nicole.

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Nicole is flustered and begins to cry. The driver is inspecting

the smashed rear end of his car.

Hesher is out of the van approaching on foot, smoking.

INT. HESHER'S VAN - SAME

TJ lifts himself up again to see what's going on. He sits low,

concealing himself, and watches the altercation in the street.

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Hesher and the driver face off. The driver is simultaneously

bewildered and angry.

Hesher rips his shirt off, aggressively.

The guy immediately begins backing down.

Hesher pushes the guy hard.

Hesher is seriously amping up the street agro. The guy doesn't

know what to do. He starts heading back to his car.

The guy gets in his car and speeds away, leaving Hesher

(shirtless) and Nicole in the street. Hesher stubs his

cigarette, now totally relaxed again.

Hesher heads back to the van. Nicole watches him not exactly

sure what to say. Hesher climbs back into his van.

INT. HESHER'S VAN - CONTINUOUS

Hesher slams the van door. TJ is slouched way down in his chair

out of sight.

Hesher gets in and looks ahead. Nicole's car sputters and steam

pours from under the hood.

Hesher gets out. TJ ducks. He can't see what's going on. Long

seconds pass. And then his door opens.

Hesher is standing there next to Nicole.

This is now beyond embarrassing for TJ. He can't even think

straight.

EXT. FAIR OAKS STREET - MOMENTS LATER

TJ and Hesher push Nicole's car off to the side of the road.

INT. HESHER'S VAN - MOMENTS LATER

Hesher drives. Nicole's in the passenger seat shaken by the turn

her day has taken. TJ is in the back.

Hesher reaches over her and pulls a joint from the glove

compartment. He lights the joint and takes a big toke. He offers

it to Nicole.

Hesher shrugs and takes another big toke then offers it to TJ

who also declines.

Nicole looks at Hesher like he's crazy. TJ is in the back - he

can't believe what's coming out of Hesher's mouth. A moment

passes.

He reaches for the stereo and cranks the knob - Metallica's,

'Motorbreath' BLASTS through the speakers.

As if he were possessed by the music, Hesher veers dangerously

off the road onto a dirt patch. He has a crazed look in his

eyes. TJ and Nicole grab onto anything they can hold onto.

Hesher turns the wheel hard and floors the gas. The van spins in

circles spraying dirt in every direction. TJ gets thrown from

the back seat onto the ground. Dirt pours into the windows and

covers them from head to toe. Hesher corrects the wheel and

veers back onto the road again.

He turns the knob on the radio to an easy listening station.

UB40's 'Red Red Wine' plays. A car honks as an angry driver

passes.

Hesher looks over at Nicole.

TJ picks himself up off the van's floor, dusting himself off.

TJ scrapes his tongue with his fingers. Nicole breaks a little

smile.

EXT. SUBURBAN HOME - DAY

The black van pulls up curb-side outside a neat suburban home.

Hesher gets out and walks, covered in dirt, to the front door of

the house. He looks in through the window, knocks, waits. An old

man opens the door. They exchange a few words. Hesher heads back

to the van and they drive off. Nicole and TJ seem confused.

Hesher says nothing. They drive three houses down the street and

stop again. Hesher gets out. Again he peers in the window,

knocks on the door. This time no answer. He heads back to the

van. Nicole and TJ watch him approach from inside. He sticks his

head in.

Hesher walks off toward the side gate of the house. Nicole and

TJ climb out of the van and follow Hesher. Nicole seems

cautious. TJ knows he's on an adventure.

Hesher jumps the SIDE GATE, then opens it for the others.

EXT. SUBURBAN HOME / BACKYARD - MOMENTS LATER

In the backyard is a swimming pool.

Nicole and TJ stand looking in the pool. It's a nice pool with a

diving board.

Hesher walks up behind them and pushes them in.

Nicole comes up for air.

Hesher smiles wide.

He throws his T-shirt off and does a huge bomb into the pool.

He splashes water at her. He dives under the water. Suddenly TJ

is pulled under. Nicole can't see them under all the motion.

Then TJ and Hesher come bursting up for air.

Hesher dives under the water again. Nicole squirms. Hesher has

her leg. He doesn't drag her under. He just tugs her leg. She

slaps at the water. He tugs her leg again. Pretty soon she's

laughing. Hesher's head appears above water momentarily.

He dives again. He pulls her leg. She laughs hard. TJ watches

feeling a little left out. Hesher jumps up and climbs out of the

pool. He goes to a garden table nearby.

He heaves the table over and into the pool. He grabs a banana

lounge.

He throws it in the pool. Nicole and TJ have to dive out of the

way. They go to the sides of the pool and climb out laughing,

while Hesher continues heaving garden furniture, a barbecue and

anything else in reach into the water.

TJ and Nicole sit on the edge of the pool with their legs

dangling in the water. They're fully clothed and soaking wet.

He walks off, around the side of the house, looking for more

things to break.

There is an awkward silent moment between TJ and Nicole. TJ

looks down and notices a small army of ants marching along the

side of the pool. He manages to get one to crawl onto the his

finger.

TJ flicks the ant off of his finger, then another one that's

climbing up his arm.

TJ stops mid ant flicking.

TJ doesn't know how to answer.

Hesher reappears with a container of lighter fluid and goes to

the diving board. He climbs on and squirts the lighter fluid

through his lighter, sending streams of flames into the pool.

Hesher douses the diving board with lighter fluid and ignites it

with his lighter. The diving board erupts into flames.

Hesher takes a few steps back then runs toward the board. He

springs through the flames into the air. He does a messy

sideways flip.

He lands in the pool splashing TJ and Nicole. He pulls himself

out and shakes his hair around like a wet dog. He looks over at

the flaming diving board.

Hesher grabs his shirt on his way toward the fence. He doesn't

look back.

Hesher hops over the fence.

Hesher disappears over the fence. We hear his van start and peel

away.

The flaming diving board pours black toxic smoke into the sky as

it crumbles into the pool.

Nicole stands and heads for the gate, TJ tags behind. They jump

the side fence and head out into the street, dripping wet.

EXT. FAIR OAKS STREET - LATE AFTERNOON

TJ & Nicole walk over the crest of a small hill on a tree-lined

street eating ice-cream cones. They walk in the middle of the

road, still damp. The sun is setting. The light is magical.

TJ steps hard, squirting water out the sides of his wet shoes.

Nicole smiles.

Beat.

TJ licks his ice cream, then reaches into his pocket.

EXT. STREET - AFTERNOON

A parking ticket sits under the wiper on Nicole's windshield. TJ

and Nicole approach the car, smiling - and then Nicole sees the

ticket. Her face sinks immediately.

She runs the last few steps to the car and rips the ticket from

under the wiper. She reads it quick.

She paces a couple of angry circles and then kicks the car's

tire. It hurts her foot. She yelps.

In a small frenzy, she pulls her keys from her pocket and opens

the car door. She gets in and slams the door behind her. She

sits behind the wheel and yells, frustrated.

TJ stands in the street, uncomfortable, not knowing what to do.

He goes to the car and gets in beside her. He sits, still not

knowing what to say. She tries to settle herself, but she's

still very emotional.

She lets out a small disbelieving laugh.

TJ thinks a moment. It's a sweet and sour moment. He wants to

cheer Nicole up, but he's remembering his Mom at the same time.

Nicole sniffs, smiling through her tears.

She smiles warmly at TJ.

She puts the key in the ignition and turns it. Nothing. Nicole

takes a breath - not wanting to get upset again. She turns to TJ

and smiles sadly.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE - NIGHT

TJ enters the house, he leaves his wet shoes and socks at the

door.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

He enters the kitchen. Hesher sits at the table, waiting for his

dinner. Grandma is serving food onto plates.

TJ sits. Hesher is smiling.

Dad enters tying the drawstring on his track pants. He looks

messy as ever.

Grandma sets more food on the table.

Grandma heads back to the kitchen to grab more food. There is

silence at the table.

Hesher slides dad's pill bottle over.

Hesher puts his finger into the mashed potatoes and wiggles it

around.

Hesher licks the potatoes off his finger.

TJ sits and fumes, nostrils flaring.

TJ sweeps his plate off the table. It goes crashing onto the

kitchen floor, food everywhere. Grandma walks back into the

room, looking worried. Hesher seems riveted, like he's watching

the tennis.

And then Dad sweeps his plate off the table. Crash, food, mess.

He glares back at TJ.

TJ wrenches his chair back and storms off.

Dad sits a moment. With TJ gone, his reproach turns to shame.

Grandma and Hesher make eye contact with each other.

Dad gets up and leaves the kitchen.

Hesher shovels some more food into his mouth. Grandma looks

concerned.

Grandma contemplates this.

This makes Grandma very sad.

Tears well in Grandma's eyes. Grandma is quietly crying.

A long beat passes.

Hesher doesn't know what to say. He pours applesauce on his

food. Grandma looks around the kitchen at the mess. She shakes

her head, takes a deep breath and starts cleaning up. She picks

up bits of broken plate and takes them to the sink. Hesher

watches her.

Hesher holds up a piece of bacon covered in applesauce and licks

off the sauce.

Grandma exits. Hesher finishes the last few bites of his dinner.

He notices Dad's pill bottle. He reaches for them. He unscrews

the lid and empties a few into his hand. He swallows the pills.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / GRANDMA'S BEDROOM DOORWAY - NIGHT

Grandma lies in bed on top of her covers. Hesher enters the

doorway and knocks lightly.

Hesher enters the room, grabs the tin from on top of the cabinet

and hands it to Grandma on the bed.

Grandma opens her red tin and takes out what looks like a rolled

cigarette.

Hesher sniffs the "cigarette".

Hesher sets the "cigarette" down.

Hesher dashes out of Grandma's room.

After a few moments, he comes back and sits on the edge of the

bed. He is holding a glass BONG. The bong has so much resin

caked onto the sides, it looks as though a thousand pounds of

marijuana have been smoked through it.

Hesher takes one of Grandma's medical joints and breaks it in

half and loads the bowl of the pipe.

Hesher lights up and takes a HUGE hit from the bong. He explains

his technique to Grandma while holding the smoke in.

Hesher takes a quick sip of air sucking the smoke deeper into

his lungs.

Grandma takes the bong and has a hit. It's a bit clunky, but she

manages to make it work.

Hesher helps her. The smoke shoots into her lungs. Grandma

begins to cough.

Grandma has another hit. It goes well. She blows out the smoke.

Hesher takes the bong off her and has another HUGE one for

himself. He passes the bong back.

Hesher takes the last hit. He dusts off the bowl and sets the

water pipe down.

They sit for a moment and let the drug sink in.

Hesher cuts her off.

Hesher looks at his hand, not knowing what mouse hands are

called.

Grandma is stoned and sleepy and fading out.

Grandma has fallen asleep, but mumbles like she is continuing

the conversation. Hesher smiles to himself, turns off her lamp

and exits the room.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Hesher enters. He stands over what's left of the mess on the

kitchen floor. He lights up a cigarette off the stove's flame

and takes a long, slow drag, as he crouches down and starts

picking up pieces of broken plate from the pile.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Dad is asleep on the couch. A single shaft of bright sunlight

lands on his face, causing him to stir.

TJ nimbly reaches down to the table, covered with dirty dishes

and pill bottles, and quietly picks up his dad's wallet. He

removes an ATM card and places the wallet back where it was. He

exits.

EXT. FAIR OAKS STREET / ATM - MORNING

Close on an ATM card, sliding into the slot. Fingers type

numbers. A small stack of twenty dollar bills pours out.

TJ puts the money in a dirty envelope, pockets it and rides off

on his bike.

INT. FAIR OAKS CAR CITY - MORNING

TJ walks through the showroom to Larry's office. Larry is on the

phone. TJ stands and waits. Larry watches him. The kid isn't

going anywhere.

TJ takes a seat outside the office. Larry closes the door.

Dustin Howard appears.

TJ ignores him. Dustin taps TJ's leg with his foot.

Larry's door opens. Larry emerges from his office. TJ stands.

TJ flinches. He wasn't expecting this.

Larry steps back into his office and shuts the door.

Dustin smiles.

TJ stares, angry. An awkward moment passes. He storms away,

dragging a water cooler down as he leaves. It crashes onto the

ground. Water spills everywhere.

EXT. FAIR OAKS CAR CITY - CONTINUOUS

TJ angrily winds his way toward the back of the lot. He stops at

the spot where his mom's car once was - now just an empty space.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - SAME

Hesher is pouring himself a bowl of Captain Crunch Berries. He

pours milk onto the cereal. He does a half-hearted side-to-side

stretch, getting ready for his walk. He looks out the window -

gray clouds suggest rain. He takes the bowl with him out of the

kitchen.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / HALL - CONTINUOUS

Hesher walks the hall, eating his bowl of Crunch Berries. He

stops at Grandma's door and looks in. He stops eating and stands

strangely still for a moment.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / GRANDMA'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Inside, we see Grandma's feet sticking out from behind the bed

where she lies face down on the ground.

Hesher enters the room, cautiously. He stands at the end of the

bed. He sets his cereal bowl down, bends and shakes her. No

response.

He shakes her again, this time a little harder. Nothing. He

stands up, looking at her still body. As he realizes she is not

waking up, his breath becomes fast, fighting hard not to get

emotional.

EXT. FAIR OAKS STREET - MORNING

Gray clouds fill the sky. We hear distant thunder. On his bike,

TJ coasts down the hill of a tree-lined street. He's upset and

trying hard to hold it back.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE / FRONT PORCH - MOMENTS LATER

TJ drops his bike and enters the house.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / FRONT DOOR - CONTINUOUS

Dad sits on the couch, his head in his hands. He looks up.

Hesher enters the room...

He punches a hold in the wall. He paces angrily back & forth.

Dad, holding back tears, gets up off the coach and hugs TJ.

Short fast heavy breathing sets in.

TJ runs over to Grandma's room and stops at the door.

He disappears into the room for a second then emerges again in

tears, his hands on his face. He heads back to the living room.

TJ is in shock. He sits on the couch next to dad. They are both

lost for words. Hesher stands in the corner with his head shoved

between the walls.

Hesher joins TJ and Dad on the couch. They are all raging

inside, confused, lost and upset. They sit together in silence

for a long beat, in the same boat for the first time.

Hesher breaks the silence. He kicks the table over as he stands.

He leaves through the front door, leaving it open behind him.

TJ gets up in a daze and stands at the doorway looking out. It

has started to drizzle.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / GRANDMA'S BEDROOM - DAY

TJ stands in the doorway working up the nerve to enter.

He enters and leans down to Grandma and tries to lift her onto

the bed. She is heavy for him, he struggles.

He gets her on top of the bed and looks at her for a moment.

TJ breaks into tears. He leans down onto the bed holding

Grandma, crying into her chest.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TJ'S ROOM - DAY

TJ sits on his bed and looks inside the envelope of cash. He

closes it and seals it shut. On the front he writes: 'NICOLE'S

PARKING TICKET FUND. LOVE TJ.'

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TJ'S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Close on a small piece of paper with a hand written number. The

numbers are dialed on a phone. TJ waits while the phone rings.

Answering machine.

Beep.

He hangs up the phone and exits.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE - AFTERNOON

TJ walks out the front door. Dad is quietly sitting on the front

steps wearing a T-shirt in the light rain. TJ goes to his bike.

Dad reaches out his hand and catches a few drops.

TJ picks up his bike and rides. We stay with Dad as TJ

disappears down the wet street.

EXT. STREET - AFTERNOON

TJ rides his bike. He rounds a corner onto Nicole's street.

He jumps off his bike outside her building and wheels it inside

the front fence.

EXT. NICOLE'S APARTMENT - AFTERNOON

TJ climbs the stairs of Nicole's building. As he approaches her

apartment door, he hears loud, but muffled music.

He knocks on the door. No answer. The music is really loud.

He knocks again. No answer. He tries the door handle. It gives.

He pushes the door open tentatively.

INT. NICOLE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

TJ enters the apartment. The music is blasting. He looks around

the living area. Clothes are strewn around. He sees Hesher's

combat boots, T-shirt, jeans. TJ looks seriously troubled.

We can faintly hear heavy breathing/moaning coming from the

bedroom.

TJ walks over to a door. It's an inch ajar. He pushes it open

gently.

We don't see what he sees, but TJ stands deathly still, eyes

wide, white as a ghost. We hear Nicole giggle. Then -

TJ storms away, heading for the front door. He pulls a lamp

smashing to the ground on his way out.

EXT. NICOLE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

TJ charges down the stairs. He grabs his bike and heads out into

the street. Light rain falls. We see Hesher appear behind him,

barefoot and topless, buttoning his jeans.

TJ notices Hesher's van parked out the front, he drops his bike

and grabs a rusty pipe from a pile of garbage on the sidewalk

and heads straight toward the van.

TJ takes a hard swing into the van, smashing the tail light.

Nicole runs out into the street, concerned, wearing an oversized

sweatshirt and underpants.

TJ ignores him and takes another swing at the van. Hesher

approaches TJ. TJ takes a swing at him with the pipe.

Hesher steps back. Nicole gasps, her hand to her mouth. She

doesn't know what to say or do.

Hesher steps toward TJ.

TJ swings the pipe at Hesher again.

TJ swings again. He's so angry, he's practically foaming at the

mouth.

TJ throws the pipe at Hesher. It hits the road with a loud

clang. TJ grabs his bike and rides away furiously. Hesher and

Nicole watch TJ ride away. It begins to rain hard.

EXT. STREET - AFTERNOON

TJ glides his bike down a long hill in the pouring rain, in

tears.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE - EVENING

TJ rides up the front porch. A funeral home truck is parked out

the front - HAPPY EVER AFTER is written on the side. TJ drops

his bike and enters the house.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Dad sits at the dining room table with a FUNERAL DIRECTOR - a

tall, lanky man. He talks in a drawn, soft monotone. Dad doesn't

appear to be at all in the mood for this conversation.

The front door slams. TJ storms past the dining room table. The

funeral director pauses and watches him pass. The sound of TJ's

bedroom door slamming shakes the house.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TJ'S ROOM - EVENING

TJ is angrily pacing back and forth. A gentle knock reveals Dad

at his door.

TJ refuses to look at his dad.

Dad doesn't know what to say beyond this. He feels as lost as TJ

does. He leaves the room.

TJ paces.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / GARAGE - MOMENTS LATER

He enters the garage violently. TJ sweeps Hesher's belongings

off the work bench in the garage. He kicks Hesher's sleeping bag

and pillow. A weathered bass guitar leans against a little

amplifier. TJ kicks the guitar, snapping it in two.

Out of breath, he stands in the mess he has created. Something

catches his eye. He contemplates this for a beat.

Close on: GARDEN SHEARS. TJ pockets them and exits the garage.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / HALL / FRONT DOOR - CONTINUOUS

TJ heads straight toward the front door of the house. He exits.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE / FRONT DOOR - CONTINUOUS

It's raining hard. TJ storms out, just as Hesher is making his

way up the path, his van parked on the street behind him. Hesher

reaches out his arm to slow TJ.

TJ pushes Hesher's arm out of the way.

Hesher, at a loss, watches TJ grab a brick from the muddy garden

and throw it through the passenger side window of his van.

Hesher charges TJ. He throws him into the muddy garden and

kneels over him holding him by the collar of his hooded

sweatshirt.

Hesher lifts TJ up and slams him back down on the ground,

knocking the wind out of him. TJ struggles to get away.

Dad runs out the front door and pulls Hesher off TJ by the back

of his shirt.

Hesher shakes free from Dad's grip and punches him square in the

nose. Dad goes down hard.

Without hesitation, TJ jumps on Hesher's back, bear hugging his

face. They struggle for a beat, until Hesher manages to throw TJ

off. He lands on the wet grass like a ragdoll.

Hesher stands breathing hard, dripping wet from the rain, fists

clenched.

He turns back to his van, gets in, slams the door and peels

away. TJ picks himself up out of the mud, grabs his bike and

rides off in the opposite direction. Dad stands holding his

bloody nose. He watches Hesher, he watches TJ. He is left

confused and bleeding in the pouring rain.

EXT. DUSTIN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

It's raining cats and dogs. TJ stands outside Dustin's house,

soaking wet with his hoodie pulled over his head, the garden

shears in his hand.

He walks around the side of the house and looks in the window.

INT. DUSTIN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

From TJ's POV outside, we see Dustin in the kitchen preparing a

sandwich, one eye on the TV. He takes the sandwich to the couch

in front of the TV and lies down.

EXT. DUSTIN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

TJ walks around the back of the house. He tries the handle to

the back door. It's locked. TJ sees the dog door. He climbs

through the flap, trying to be as quiet as possible. The TV is

loud inside.

INT. DUSTIN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

TJ treads softly through the kitchen, soaking wet, shears

poised.

He walks through to the living area. He steps behind the couch

out of Dustin's line of sight. Dustin's bare feet hang off the

end of the couch.

TJ ducks down. He opens the shears and carefully brings them

down over Dustin's big toe. He squeezes them shut...

Dustin squeals.

TJ squeezes a little harder. Dustin squeals a little louder.

TJ squeezes harder. Dustin squeals.

TJ thinks, holding Dustin's toe in his grip.

TJ doesn't quite know what to do now. He stares at Dustin who

looks genuinely frightened. TJ releases the shears and backs

away. And the second he does so, Dustin leaps off the couch,

grabs TJ by the throat and slams him down on the living room

floor. TJ drops the shears.

Dustin wails into TJ. TJ cowers on the ground. Punches land

A LAWN CHAIR comes CRASHING through the front window into the

living room, raining glass everywhere. Dustin stops punching,

stunned, and looks up to see Hesher, dripping wet, step through

the big nasty hole he has just made.

Dustin moves to stand. Hesher pounces on him, dragging him along

the ground. He grabs the shears and brings them straight up to

Dustin's nose. In the same movement, he snaps the shears shut

and takes the end of Dustin's nose off.

Dustin squeals in pain and scurries backwards, clutching his

face, blood leaking between his fingers. TJ stands, stunned.

Dustin is crying now, clutching his face.

TJ goes to the kitchen.

TJ runs a rag under the tap and takes it to Dustin. Hesher

stands, clutching the shears, confused.

Dustin moans. Hesher is still confused.

Dustin holds the rag. TJ stands to face Hesher.

They look at each other a moment. Hesher looks taken aback. He

honestly believed he was doing a good thing.

TJ leaves, through the front door. Hesher stands over a

whimpering Dustin wondering what went wrong.

EXT. RED BRIDGE - NIGHT

TJ rides his bike over a rickety red bridge. He pulls his bike

up outside the tall wire fence of a big dirty wrecking yard -

D&S Auto-Wreckers. It's still raining very hard. TJ is soaking

wet. He sits on his bike, looking at mountains of wrecked cars

inside.

TJ hops off his bike and shoves it behind a dumpster. He gets up

on the dumpster and climbs the wrecking yard's fence.

EXT. D&S WRECKING YARD - MOMENTS LATER

TJ roams the stacks, looking for his mother's car. He looks

distraught. All around sit stacks of wrecked cars. A vicious dog

on a chain barks and snarls nearby.

TJ stops. He sees his mom's car atop a tall stack of wrecks. He

looks at it a moment, contemplating what to do. He moves to the

base of the stack and begins to climb.

He clambers slowly up the pile in the rain. It's awkward and

difficult and more than a little dangerous.

Finally he reaches the top. He wrenches open the car door and

squeezes behind the wheel.

INT. RED VOLVO - CONTINUOUS

TJ sits, catching his breath. The rain clatters on the roof of

the car. TJ is up high enough to see the lights of the

surrounding neighborhood. He sits and contemplates the last few

days and months of his life.

He closes his eyes.

INT. MIDDLE CLASS HOME - DAY

A doorbell rings. TJ runs to the door wearing the bottom half a

suit. It's the pizza man.

Dad, clean shaven, dressed in a suit, comes to the door and

pays.

The woman comes down the stairs with her hair nicely done,

wearing a fancy pink dress, it's TJ's MOM.

She begins to do up TJ's tie.

Dad picks up a large box off the side table, it's clearly heavy.

The three emerge from the house. TJ is wearing a suit and

carrying the pizza box, Dad's carrying the heavy present, and

Mom's carrying a bouquet of flowers and her purse. Dad stands at

the door of a little white car. Clearly the box is too big.

Mom open the back of her red volvo which is parked right next to

the white car.

Dad does a heel spins around the white car and heads towards

Mom's red volvo, never losing a beat.

INT. RED VOLVO - CONTINUOUS

Dad's driving, eating a slice of pizza. TJ is in the backseat,

looking out the window, also eating pizza. Mom does her make-up

in the visor mirror.

Mom half-laughs and shakes her head.

Mom turns on the oldies station. Dion And The Belmont's, "A

Teenager In Love" plays. Dad sings along.

The car hits a bump. Mom smudges her lipstick.

She turns to Dad and we can see her lipstick has gone up onto

her cheek. She smiles at Dad. They all smile at this, then -

From out of nowhere, the car is T-BONED on the passenger's side.

The impact is massive. The NOISE is deafening. Smashed glass.

The car spins into the oncoming traffic and is hit by a delivery

truck. The car flips. More deafening noise...

INT. RED VOLVO / D&S WRECKING YARD - MORNING

TJ wakes in the wrecked car at the wrecking yard. The loud sound

of crunching metal continues. TJ is startled and disoriented. He

realizes the car is moving.

EXT. WRECKING YARD - CONTINUOUS

A crane is lifting the car with a huge wrecking yard magnet. As

it rises off the stack, it dangles at a precarious angle.

INT. RED VOLVO - CONTINUOUS

TJ is thrown through the car to be wedged up against the

windshield. He panics. He yells. He squirms his way to the

window and waves his arm wildly outside, yelling, trying to get

the attention of the guys below. The car shifts violently and TJ

slides out through the window.

EXT. D&S WRECKING YARD - CONTINUOUS

TJ is hanging dangerously out of the car, swinging his legs and

screaming at the top of his lungs. His voice can barely be heard

over the sound of machinery.

A guy on the ground, MARIO, looks up and spots TJ. He

frantically looks to get the crane operator's attention.

Ricky sticks his head out of the crane cab, like he can't hear.

Mario points. Ricky looks up. Both men can see TJ dangling.

EXT. D&S WRECKING YARD - MOMENTS LATER

As the car is lowered TJ jumps the last few feet to the ground.

Mario leads him away from the car and the crane.

TJ doesn't respond, he backs away.

Mario watches him walk away, still disbelieving. He turns back

to Ricky and gives him the all clear to start her up again.

TJ walks to the entrance gate while behind him his mom's car is

hoisted high in the air.

TJ stops at a dirty vending machine by the gate. He pulls coins

from his pocket and slots them in. It spits out a chocolate bar.

Moments later TJ stands with his half-eaten chocolate bar while

watching his Mom's car get fed into a giant crushing machine and

compacted into scrap. Tears well in his eyes. He feels helpless.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE - DAY

TJ walks in the front door. Dad jumps up from the couch. He has

a bandage on his nose and a black eye. He looks distraught, like

he's been up all night.

Dad looks at him, breathing hard. Tears well in his eyes. Dad

starts crying, he's falling to bits.

Dad knows he's being pathetic. TJ walks off down the hall.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TJ'S BEDROOM - LATER

TJ stands in front of a mirror trying to correctly tie his neck

tie. He makes a sad attempt and leaves it - it looks wrong.

There's a knock at TJ's bedroom door, but the door doesn't open.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE - DAY

Nicole stands at the door. TJ is unimpressed with seeing her. He

stands in the doorway looking silly with his tie.

TJ stares at her.

TJ looks at her, he doesn't really want to be mad at her.

Nicole walks off. She gets half way across the lawn before -

Nicole turns.

Nicole smiles at this.

They smile at one another. She crosses the lawn back toward TJ.

She fixes his tie. She smiles again and then she leaves.

INT. GRANDMA'S CAR / FAIR OAKS STREET - AFTERNOON

Dad and TJ sit in the front seat. They are still angry and not

speaking to each other. It is an unpleasant and uncomfortable

ride. They both wear a suit and tie.

EXT. FUNERAL HOME - AFTERNOON

Dad and TJ drive into the funeral home parking lot in Grandma's

car. A few people are milling around.

INT. FUNERAL HOME - DAY

Dad and TJ enter the funeral home foyer. They look like they

don't know where they're supposed to go. They are greeted by the

funeral director from earlier. He talks in a soft monotone

whisper.

He takes Dad aside.

Dad looks confused. He doesn't know how he's supposed to

respond.

The director hands Dad a fancy pen and holds out a dense order

form for him to sign.

Dad's pen hovers. He doesn't know where he's signing.

Dad signs and hands the pen back.

The funeral director's cell phone vibrates loudly on his belt.

He ignores it. Dad can't.

Dad looks at the funeral director, not quite sure he's hearing

him right. The funeral director's phone continues to vibrate.

The funeral director walks away and answers his phone.

INT. SERVICE ROOM - DAY

The funeral director stands at the front of the room. He hits

play on the in-house stereo - generic classical musak. TJ and

Dad take seats next to each other, but they might as well be a

hundred miles apart. About ten other people sit.

The funeral director hits stop. He stands and approaches the

microphone.

MRS AGNES ROSOWSKI hobbles her way to the microphone.

While Agnes speaks, TJ and Dad notice the funeral director, off

to the side, whispering business to two of his employees. He

makes every attempt to be subtle and discreet about it, but he

is clearly struggling with today's workload.

Agnes places her hand on Grandma's coffin and stands for a long

silent beat.

Another drawn out moment of silence. The funeral director takes

this opportunity to step to the microphone.

Agnes steps towards her seat. When she sees TJ she stops.

The funeral director pauses awkward. Everyone looks at TJ.

TJ gets up reluctantly. He doesn't know what to say. He stands

at the microphone and struggles for a long beat, but nothing

comes out.

TJ makes his way off the stage.

Sound of slow clapping from the back. It's Hesher. His hair

looks extra greasy, he's wearing a dirty white Budweiser T-shirt

and he's holding a tall can of beer under his arm which spills

as he claps. He is VERY drunk.

The funeral director tries to wrap it up.

Hesher stands and makes his way to the front. The funeral

director tries politely to protest.

Dad stands up in the aisle and tries to stop Hesher.

Up on the stage, funeral home employees begin wheeling Grandma's

coffin away.

Hesher pushes past Dad and stops the coffin.

The funeral director walks up to Hesher.

Hesher turns and stands at the microphone.

The funeral director looks over to Dad, not sure what to do. He

lightly puts his hand on Hesher's arm to guide him off stage.

Hesher pushes the funeral director's arm away hard.

The funeral director backs off, scared and unsure of what to do.

Hesher gestures to Grandma's coffin.

Hesher points to the funeral director.

TJ's dad stands and interrupts.

There is a beat of silence. No one knows what to say or do.

Hesher takes a long pull from his beer can.

Hesher makes a magic disappearing arm gesture, spilling a bit of

beer on the floor.

The tiny crowd listens, half offended, half intrigued.

Hesher looks up at TJ and Dad, sad and imploring, he's made his

point. They look back at him stunned.

Hesher takes the last swig of his Budweiser. He sways, drunk.

This soaks in with the crowd.

Hesher throws the can down. He goes to stomp on it. He misses

and stumbles, crashing into the microphone podium, knocking it

over and falling in a heap with it. He starts puking on the

stage. A couple of old ladies are horrified.

The funeral director motions to his assistants that now is the

time to move the coffin out. Hesitantly, they obey. Hesher looks

over from the floor.

They continue to push the coffin away. Hesher lifts himself up

and wipes the vomit from his face and steps toward the coffin.

The funeral workers back away.

Determined, Hesher leans down and unlocks the wheels of the

coffin stand.

Dad stands, not exactly sure what to do.

With purpose Hesher pushes the coffin down the stage ramp and

down the center aisle of the room, toward the exit. He turns to

Hesher seems overcome with emotion, he continues pushing the

coffin toward the exit and out through the doors.

TJ and Dad watch him, unsure. After a moment, They follow him to

the door. They stand at the doors watching Hesher push the

coffin out into the parking lot.

TJ is overcome with emotion, his eyes well with tears. He heads

across the lot and catches up with Hesher, joining him on the

walk. Dad watches for a beat, his eyes well up too, then he does

the same.

All three are now walking together through the funeral home

parking lot with Grandma's coffin. They don't speak. It's a

release. Other mourners watch from the doorway.

EXT. FUNERAL HOME - CONTINUOUS

Hesher wheels Grandma's coffin across the parking lot with TJ

and Dad beside him. They seem solemn and strangely dignified in

a dishevelled way.

Hesher leads them out of the parking lot and into the street.

Traffic passes around them. Some cars come to a complete stop.

Hesher gets the coffin up onto the sidewalk on the other side of

the street and the three continue their silent walk with

Grandma.

In slow motion the three walk. Dad puts his arm around TJ's

shoulders, TJ puts his arm around Dad's.

And then a cop car cruises beside them slow. The cops inside

watch them. Dad looks over. One of the cops smiles.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE - EVENING

The cop car pulls up outside the house. The back door opens and

Hesher falls out onto the sidewalk, still very drunk. Dad climbs

out and steps over Hesher helping him to his feet. A cop speaks

to them from the open window.

Hesher squirms and slurs.

The cop gives them a casual wave as their car pulls away. TJ and

Dad help Hesher across the lawn to the front door. We hold on

the house for a beat.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / BATHROOM - NEXT MORNING

Close on scissors to beard.

Dad stands over the sink cutting away at his beard. Golden

sunlight pours in through the windows.

A moment later he lathers his face up with shaving cream.

INT. FORNEY HOUSE / TJ'S ROOM - MORNING

There's a gentle knock at the door. TJ wakes and makes a big

stretch. His hair's a mess.

Dad enters, he's clean-shaven now. He looks like a new man.

EXT. FORNEY HOUSE / GARAGE - MOMENTS LATER

The garage door is open. The garage is flooded with daylight and

no sign of Hesher.

TJ and Dad walks across the garage to the open door. At the

garage's entrance they stop. Their eyes register something

seriously unusual outside.

'Master of Puppets' by Metallica punches in. LOUD.

A giant red cube of Volvo scrap metal has been placed in the

center of the driveway like a huge piece of abstract art. They

stand and stare at it, almost in awe.

Then from the across the street, we see the object in the

driveway and TJ and Dad on the porch looking at it.

We also see the words 'HESHER WAS HERE!' spray painted on the

front of the house in big letters, as yet unseen by TJ and Dad.

Dad puts his arm around TJ's shoulders.

On the beat we CUT TO:

Hesher ripping on the guitar; Hesher blowing something up;

Hesher cupping a fart and putting it in TJ's face; Hesher

pantsing Dad; Hesher metal saluting Grandma and Grandma saluting

him back.

Hesher behind the wheel of his van, smoking a cigarette and

making a direct line for the setting sun.

A mouse sits an in a tiny armchair like a human, shelling a

peanut. He throws the shell over his shoulder watching the

setting sun.

