<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

The Ice Storm by James Schamus. Based on the novel by Rick Moody. First Draft Revised January 5, 1996

EXT. TRAIN - DARKNESS BEFORE DAWN

Suburban Connecticut, outside of New York City, 1973. The

still after a terrible storm. Trees dripping, their branches

torn, the air warming just before the break of a new day. The

train lies dark and motionless, a few flashing yellow

emergency lights up front, as a work crew removes debris from

the track.

INT. TRAIN. PRE-DAWN

Various passengers, huddled uncomfortably, cold, asleep.

On Paul Hood, 15-and-a-half, stoner-preppie look, hunched up

in his seat under the faint emergency exit light. He reads

his Fantastic Four comic book by the pale light of the

emergency exit sign.

Suddenly, the lights begin to flicker on and the hum of the

train's engines returns.

The conductor enters the car, blasting forth in his classic

nasal voice.

He sounds like a baseball announcer.

He moves on to the next car.

The train begins to move.

Paul rubs his elbow against the window and looks out into the

still-dark early morning.

He looks back down at his comic book.

On the comic book: Reed Richards (also known as Stretch) has

zapped his young son with a cosmic ray gun to neutralize the

destructive energy that Annihilus has implanted in him.

The Thing, Medusa, Flame, and Richards' wife Sue Storm look

on, stunned.

Paul looks up again, thinking.

EXT. TRAIN BRIDGE. PRE-DAWN

The train moves slowly through a suburban, semi-forested

landscape.

INT. TRAIN. CONT'D.

On Paul, as the sun breaks over the horizon. His face glows

warmly in the yellow light. He looks down idly at the comic

book.

EXT. CONRAIL STATION. EARLY MORNING

The train slowly pulls in.

The train doors open, and Paul, weary from the long night,

emerges. He sees his family gathered at the other end of the

platform -- Ben, 40, a bit worse for wear but still retaining

traces of his boyish looks; Elena, 37, distant and elegant

even in her oversized sweater; and Wendy, 14, a sullen

suburban Lolita.

He pauses, regarding them.

They stand, silent, even dignified, awaiting him.

EXT. ST. PETER'S SCHOOL. MORNING

To establish. A typical New England prep school.

INT. PAUL AND FRANCIS'S DORM ROOM. MORNING

Cramped, a mess, but quaint. Paul shares the room with

Francis Davenport IV, a dissolute, smart-ass son of money.

Paul's alarm clock rings. He slams his hand down on it and

jumps out of bed, fully clothed in his rumpled preppie

uniform of frayed khakis, loose tie, shirt with one tail

untucked in, etc. Across the room, Francis beckons from his

desk, as he finishes loading up a four-foot-high bong.

Paul reluctantly walks over and takes a hit. He coughs,

spewing uninhaled smoke.

INT. ST PETERS' CLASSROOM. DAY

An English class in progress.

Paul Hood sits blankly, hardly listening, until he hears the

teacher call out.

Paul looks at her, smitten. Marge, Paul's friend, notices his

look.

INT. ST. PETER'S HALLWAY. DAY

As class lets out, Paul accosts Libbets.

INT. ST. PETER'S HALLWAY. DAY

Paul walks with Marge.

INT. SCHOOL PARTY. NIGHT

Paul, Francis and friends enter the dark, crowded room.

Various kids are awkwardly dancing to some progressive fm

style undanceable rock (Jethro Tull, etc.) Francis hands Paul

the tail end of a joint, but Paul waves it away.

He waves his fingers toward Paul's eyes, in the classic

"stoned" gesture, then wanders off.

Paul looks on at the gathering. Marge waves to him from the

dance floor.

INT. SCHOOL PARTY. CONT'D

Paul wanders, stoned, through the party. He sees Libbets from

across the room. She seems to be surrounded by friends.

INT. PARTY. CONT'D

Paul has cornered Libbets and is talking over the music.

There are just a few people left, most of them making out

with each other.

Libbets smiles through her yawn.

EXT. SCHOOL BENCH. NIGHT

Paul sits alone on the bench, freezing cold, eating a donut.

Some kids from across the lawn yell good-night to him.

INT. DORM ROOM. EVENING.

Paul is at his desk. Francis enters, wrapped in a towel,

fresh from the shower.

A knock at the door.

Paul rolls off his bed, opens the door.

INT. DORM HALLWAY. NIGHT

Paul walks to the pay phone at the end of the hall.

INTERCUT - HOOD HOUSEHOLD. NIGHT

It's a modern (shag carpet, geometric-patterned wallpaper,

etc.) suburban house.

Ben Hood talks on the phone, a drink in his hand.

In the background, we can see Wendy watching Richard Nixon on

TV.

IN THE BACKGROUND:

She frowns.

She gets up sullenly and goes to the phone.

From the kitchen, Elena overhears. She's dressed to go out,

but in the process of making a Kraft macaroni and cheese

dinner for Wendy.

Ben retreats, going to the wet bar to pour another drink.

He puts the bottle back down without pouring.

INTERCUT BACK TO PAUL:

Elena, putting on her coat, comes into the den and gives

Wendy a kiss on the forehead as Wendy mumbles her good-byes

to Paul on the phone.

Back to Nixon on the TV.

On Wendy as she regards the TV, hearing her parents'

farewells as they leave through the front door.

EXT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. NIGHT

A large New England Colonial, with a few modern additions and

touches. We hear the sound of dinner chatter.

INT. WILLIAMS DINING ROOM. NIGHT

The kitchen door swings open into the dining room, and Mikey

and Sandy Williams emerge, each holding platters of food.

Mikey, 15-and-a-half, lost in space, and Sandy, 14, a sullen

and barely pubescent boy, each have towels draped over their

forearms -- they are the evening's "waiters".

They move unsteadily to the table, at which sit their parents

Janey (38, a hard-edged, sharp-witted beauty) and Jim (43,

large and a bit goofy, a genius inventor), together with

their guests, Ben and Elena Hood, and neighbors Dorothy and

Ted Franklin.

We jump cut through the evening's conversations, seen mostly

from the furtive POV's of the boys.

Janey is whispering something into Mikey's ear, who returns

to the kitchen.

The boys are pouring wine.

As this is said, Mikey accidentally spills some wine on Ben.

Janey leans over with her napkin and attempts a cursory wipe

of Ben's pants. Is there a just barely noticeable frisson

between Ben and Janey as she removes the napkin? If there is,

Elena doesn't -- or pretends not to -- notice.

The boys, now in pajamas (Sandy's with padded feet, Mikey's a

combination of t-shirt and pj bottoms) are bringing out

coffee and dessert. The adults eye Mikey's handling of the

coffee pot with some nervousness.

Silence.

The dinner party has moved to the living room for after

dinner drinks. Elena remains behind to help Janey pick up the

table. She stacks a plate on top of another.

Elena realizes that there's an edge to Janey's voice.

INT. WILLIAMS LIVING ROOM. NIGHT

The party progresses. Mikey and Sandy are lying on their

stomachs at the top of the stairs, out of sight.

INT. WILLIAMS FRONT HALLWAY. NIGHT

The guests are leaving. The men shake hands, the women kiss,

and the men and women awkwardly peck each others' cheeks.

INT. STAIRWAY. NIGHT

At the top of the stairs, a rather dejected Sandy and Mikey

finish spying on the leave-takings below. Mikey nudges Sandy,

and they silently head back the upstairs hall.

INT. MIKE'S ROOM. NIGHT

They enter Mike's room -- the door has a "nuclear waste

positively no admittance" sign on it.

As Mikey reaches his bed, he doubles over, groaning, and

starts to make retching noises. He then throws himself onto

the bed, his head leaning over the far side.

Sandy walks over and sees a pile of vomit next to the bed.

Taken aback for a moment, he then reaches forward and picks

it up -- it's fake plastic vomit. He throws it on top of

Mike's back, but Mikey doesn't take notice.

Mikey returns to his reading -- a copy of The Sensuous Woman,

obviously well pawed over. He absentmindedly picks his nose.

As he flips the pages, a beautiful, almost electrical HUMMING

SOUND begins to fill his ears. He frowns and pauses to listen

to it.

Sandy, who has picked up a balsa wood miniature plane,

obviously doesn't hear it.

Mikey focuses on the plane as Sandy waves it through the air.

Perhaps the hum is the sound of its engines as it soars

through the sky...

INT. WENDY'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

There is a large poster of a cartoon version of Richard Nixon

"Tricky Dick" -- on her wall. Wendy is on the phone to her

friend Beth.

She pauses as Beth asks a question.

She hears the downstairs door open.

She turns her light out.

INT. HOOD UPSTAIRS HALLWAY. NIGHT

Ben and Elena walking past Wendy's room to their bedroom.

He pauses before a hall table, and, with his eyes, traces the

telephone cord under Wendy's room.

But Elena simply continues into the master bedroom.

He starts to pull gently on the cord. And continues pulling.

No response for a few seconds. Then:

CONTINUED: 25

Wendy opens the door to her room.

She slams the door.

He opens it.

INT. WENDY'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

Ben enters the room, angry.

Wendy jumps into bed and under the covers, pulling them up

over her head. He stands over her, looking down at the

crumpled pile of sheet and blanket.

He places his hand where her cheek should be, and caresses

the sheet.

Ben turns to the door, where he sees a silent Elena standing

in her nightgown, a slight smile on her face.

INT. HOOD BEDROOM. NIGHT

Elena is sitting cross-legged, eyes closed, on her side of

the bed. We hear the toilet flush from the master bath, and

see Ben emerge in his boxers. He pauses in front of the bed,

looking at Elena.

Elena just gives him a look, more sad than angry.

Silence.

Ben picks up a pillow and walks out, pausing wistfully at the

door.

INT. WENDY'S ROOM. NIGHT

Wendy hears her parents' door close and sees a strip of light

illuminate under her door as the hall light goes on, then

off.

EXT. MANHATTAN OFFICE BUILDING. DAY

A nondescript, cleanly "modern" building. Engraved on the

doors: "Shackley and Schwimmer, Securities Brokerage -

Established 1964"

INT. SHACKLEY AND SCHWIMMER CONFERENCE ROOM. DAY

Ben, seated, is finishing a brief presentation to a small

group of men, which includes George Clair, mid-thirties,

unctuously handsome.

The aging boss nods agreement.

George Clair just grins.

INT. BEN HOOD'S OFFICE. DAY

Ben is gathering papers, readying to leave. He looks up to

see George Clair in his doorway.

INTERCUT HALL IN FRONT OF BEN HOOD'S OFFICE

As we see that Clair is deftly fondling Hood's attractive

secretary as she is seated in the cubicle beside the door to

his office. She looks up coyly at Clair, hidden for the

moment from Ben's view.

Ben comes out of his office, pulling his coat on. Clair and

the secretary pull back, but it's clear that Ben has some

sense of what's transpiring between them.

There's an obvious rivalry between the two of them.

The secretary pretends not to hear.

EXT. UNIVERSITY CLUB. DAY

An august New York institution. To establish.

INT. CLUB RESTAURANT. DAY

A stuffy, Ivy League atmosphere. A decades-old tradition of

serving overcooked American food. Ben is seated across from

his father, Harold Hood, a retired curmudgeon. There is a

walker parked by Harold's chair.

The martini arrives, along with Ben's beer.

He looks up and sees his father slurping his martini, not

paying attention.

Ben ponders, as the food arrives.

His father rolls his eyes and stabs his salad with a fork.

INT. BOOK STORE. DAY

Elena browses the self-help section. A longish-haired,

slightly gone-to-seed, but still handsome clergyman pauses

next to her. He's wearing an ecclesiastical collar and bell

bottoms.

He pulls out a copy of Me, Myself and I, glancing again at

Elena.

EXT. NEW CANAAN HIGH SCHOOL FIELD. DAY

A cool gray afternoon. A group of boys are playing flag

football on the field, while two groups of girls are gathered

underneath the bleachers at either end, warily smoking

c1garettes.

Wendy, Beth, and a couple of other girls are gathered in one

group.

The conversation peters out at this point, as the two groups

of girls give each other the hairy eyeball from afar.

Wendy looks through from beneath the bleacher seats onto the

field where the boys are playing.

A group of boys break from a huddle, Mikey among them.

The quarterback takes the hike and Mikey runs out for a pass.

As he runs, his breathing increases in volume, filling his

ears, and transforming into the humming sound he'd heard

before.

The quarterback spots him and throws a long one.

He runs in an oblivion of beautiful white sound.

The ball drops next to him as he continues, in a world of his

own, to run.

Suddenly, the humming ends and he stops and turns around, to

see all the other kids just standing there looking at him.

One of them makes a pot-smoking gesture, as if that's the

explanation.

The other kids snicker. Wendy looks on, and catches Mikey's

eye for a fleeting moment.

She takes hold of her bicycle and pushes off.

INT. COFFEE SHOP. DAY

Elena and Philip are seated at a booth.

Elena looks outside the window, and sees Wendy speed past on

her bicycle.

Silence.

EXT. FIVE AND DIME STORE. DAY

Wendy pulls her bike up to the back, locks it, and walks in.

INT. FIVE AND DIME STORE. DAY

Wendy moves with a certain amount of stealth through the

aisles, arriving at the candy selection.

She looks around.

She takes a package of twinkies and slips them into the

oversized pockets of her painter's pants.

She turns around, and her breath goes out of her -- an OLD

WOMAN has been watching her shoplift. The woman looks sadly

at her, but says nothing. Wendy slowly walks past her and out

the back door of the store. The woman looks on.

EXT. FIVE AND DIME STORE. DAY

As she walks her bike onto the sidewalk, Wendy comes across

Sandy.

She pushes off on her bike.

Sandy gazes after her. He takes his G.I. Joe out of his coat

pocket, and points it at her.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREETS. DAY

Wendy flies along on her bike. It's a desolately beautiful

fall day.

EXT. SILVER MEADOWS PSYCHIATRIC INSTITUTE. DAY

Wendy rides by the front gates of the posh grounds of the

private psychiatric clinic. A security guard leans against a

booth.

Once a bit past the gate, she gets off her bike and walks it

into a grove of trees near the front drive.

EXT. SILVER MEADOWS. DAY

Mikey is waiting amid the trees next to his bike as Wendy

arrives.

She puts the Twinkies back, and pops the gum in her mouth.

They stand together chewing.

Wendy doesn't say anything.

EXT. SILVER MEADOWS SWIMMING POOL. DAY

The wind is picking up and the light is fading. Mikey and

Wendy climb the fence around the pool, which is empty and

half-covered in dead leaves and twigs.

They climb down into the concrete recess and walk into the

deep end, leaning against the far wall of the pool.

They each matter-of-factly take their gum out and put it

behind their ears.

They begin not so much to kiss as to place their tongues in

each others' mouths.

We see them from high above the pool, as the dead leaves

swirl lightly around them, Mikey groping under Wendy's

poncho.

EXT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. DAY

To establish.

INT. WILLIAMS GUEST ROOM. DAY

A couple are in the final throes of lovemaking. We see Janey

Williams's face, more or less enjoying the proceedings. The

man gives a final heave and groan, and rolls off to reveal

himself to be -- Ben Hood.

Janey smokes a cigarette. Ben is babbling.

Janey smiles briefly at this.

She wraps a blanket around herself and gets up.

EXT. BACK OF WILLIAMS HOUSE. EVENING

Ben cautiously walks out he back door and heads for the side

gate.

INT. HOOD KITCHEN. EVENING

Wendy enters the house as Elena is finishing supper

preparations.

Without waiting for instructions, Wendy starts pulling out

plates and silverware and setting the table.

Elena takes this in.

Wendy continues setting the table.

Wendy frowns.

INT. HOOD LIVING ROOM. NIGHT

Ben and Elena take their seats on the sofa. Wendy stands

before them holding an enormous trombone, with a music stand

and sheet music in front of her.

She puffs a series of seemingly disconnected notes in waltz

time.

When she's done, she looks up from the sheet music to her

parents.

They applaud.

Elena gives him a look.

INT. HOOD KITCHEN. NIGHT

Elena is sorting through bills and writing checks at the

kitchen table. Ben comes in and fills a glass with ice.

He comes up behind her, looks down at the checkbook.

He leans over and kisses her on the cheek. She sniffs.

He recoils a bit.

He walks uncertainly from the room. Does she suspect?

INT. MIKE'S ROOM. NIGHT

Mikey is painfully at work writing an English essay. Sandy

comes to the door with a geometry textbook.

Sandy puts the open textbook in front of him.

He looks at the book.

As Mikey goes on, we see his geometric doodles, and hear

faintly the HUMMING SOUND under his voice.

A knock at the door. Jim stands in the doorway with a

suitcase in his hand.

Sandy looks at Mikey as if pondering a lost cause.

Mikey's still flustered.

He walks off.

INT. WILLIAMS BEDROOM. NIGHT

Janey is reading, still dressed, on the bed. She nods to Jim

as he enters with his suitcase.

He nods and puts his suitcase down, then sits heavily on the

side of the bed.

It turns out it's a water bed, and his weight creates a wave

that nearly pushes Janey off her edge of the bed.

He laughs to himself.

She gives him a look.

INT. COFFEE SHOP. DAY

Elena and Philip Edwards are having coffee again.

Just then, Dorothy Franklin passes by their table, a smirk

firmly implanted on her face.

She scurries out of the coffee shop.

INT. CLASSROOM. DAY

Mikey is reading his English paper before the class.

An embarrassed silence.

INT. SCHOOL MUSIC ROOM. DAY

Band practice. The New Canaan High School band is doing a

wind version of a popular rock tune.

In front, there's Wendy, in halter top and hip-hugging bell

bottoms, incongruously blowing away on her trombone -- this

being her one stab at extracurricular activities.

In the flute section directly behind her is Sandy, piping

away on a tiny piccolo. He sits on a riser slightly elevated

above her.

He directs downward at Wendy a protracted regard, a look of

intense concentration on his face.

SANDY'S POV:

Wendy's backside, her pants pushed outward in the back,

affording Sandy a libido-charged view of the top of her bum

crack.

Push in on a close-up of this cherished abstract landscape,

then back to Sandy's furrowed face.

INT. CLUB RESTAURANT. DAY

Ben and Harold are at their table again. Lunch is being

cleared.

Another pause. Ben decides not to pursue an overworked topic.

Ben spits his drink out.

INT. TRAIN. EVENING

Ben sits in the moving train, commuting home. He puts down

his paper to look at this fellow passengers. [NOTE: He is in

the same seat as was Paul at the beginning of the film.]

INT. HOOD DEN. DAY

Elena sits in a yoga pose.

INT. HOOD GARAGE. DAY

Elena enters the garage from the kitchen and turns the light

on.

She finds an old bicycle and pulls it out.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREETS. DAY

Elena rides her bike into town, infused with the girlish

sense of freedom she imagined for her daughter.

Suddenly, there's a pop -- a tire is blown out. She slows

down and gets off the bike. As she bends to look at the

wheel, a station wagon slows near her. The driver's side

window rolls open. It's Janey Williams.

INT. JANEY'S CAR. DAY

Elena sits in the passenger seat. The two women are obviously

uncomfortable with each other.

Silence.

They smile, barely.

She pulls the car over.

EXT. FIVE AND DIME STORE. DAY

Janey's car pulls to the curb.

INT. CAR. CONT'D

EXT. FIVE AND DIME. CONT'D

Elena watches the car pull away. She turns and walks into the

store.

INT. FIVE AND DIME. DAY

Elena moves through the aisles, putting various sundries into

a basket.

She pauses in front of the lipsticks.

She picks up a lipstick, looks at it, then quietly places it

in her pocket.

We see her reflection in the security mirror above the aisle,

as she quickly exits the store.

The middle-aged lady behind the counter watches her leave.

EXT. FIVE AND DIME. DAY

In a wide shot, from across the street, we see Elena leave

the store, followed by the shopkeeper who runs behind her and

taps her on the shoulder. They converse for a minute, and

Elena is accompanied back into the store.

Through the store windows we see her take the lipstick out of

her purse. She's obviously distraught -- offering to pay,

talking quickly, etc. The shopkeeper is holding a telephone,

not yet decided on whether to call her in.

INT. TRAIN. DAY

Close on images from The Fantastic Four.

Paul sits reading on his way home.

EXT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. DAY

Janey pulls up in the driveway. As she gets out of the car,

she hears a small explosion from the back of the house.

EXT. HOOD BACKYARD. DAY

Janey comes around the back to discover Sandy stuffing a

model airplane with m-80 firecrackers. He lights them and

runs back a safe distance. The plane explodes, its wreckage

joining the debris from a few other dolls, models, and toys.

Sandy looks up -- busted.

Janey marches over to him.

Sandy looks on the verge of tears. She softens and bends down

to him.

INT. WILLIAMS LIVING ROOM. DAY

Mikey and Wendy are in front of the TV, watching a rerun of

Divorce Court.

She pauses, then walks into the kitchen.

EXT. WILLIAMS BACKYARD. DAY

Sandy flicks his enormous whip in the direction of a small

bush.

One by one, he snaps off its leaves.

INT. WILLIAM KITCHEN. DAY

Janey hauls a turkey out of a bag and into the fridge.

INT. WILLIAMS LIVING ROOM. DAY

Mikey and Wendy are still in front of the TV.

Janey comes in again and looks at them.

She walks out of the room again.

Sandy comes in, whip in hand, looks over at Mikey and Wendy,

then walks over to them, and, without a word, slumps down

beside them and watches the TV.

EXT. TOWN STREET. DAY

Elena walks unsteadily, pausing to rest against a brick wall.

She takes a deep breath, then walks to a corner where a local

taxi station wagon sits idling. She gestures to the driver,

who beckons her in.

INT. WILLIAMS LIVING ROOM. DAY

Later, still mentally devolving in front of the TV, but with

various junk food detritus surrounding them and a different

show, a rerun of the original Highway Patrol.

Sandy wanders off.

Later.

Wendy gets up, goes upstairs, and wanders down the hall to

the bathroom.

She gets to the door just as Sandy gets there from the

opposite direction.

Sandy hesitantly opens the door, as Wendy still hovers by it.

But he stays put, unaware it seems that he's blocking the

doorway.

Wendy looks around -- no one in sight.

Sandy goes wide eyed, and almost against his will backs into

the bathroom like a feather.

INT. WILLIAMS LIVING ROOM. DAY

Mikey looks up from the TV, wondering where Wendy is. He eats

another Pringle.

INT. WILLIAMS BATHROOM. DAY

Wendy flips up her dress for Sandy.

He slowly unzips, his hand unsteady. We can tell from the

look on Wendy's face that she's feeling a bit sorry for the

little guy.

Suddenly Sandy turns beet red, and bursts into tears.

The door flips open -- and Janey Williams appears.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM. DAY

Janey is giving Wendy a lecture

INT. WILLIAMS HOUSE DOORWAY. DAY

Wendy is led to the door by Mrs. Williams.

Wendy trades a glance with a sullen Mikey, who sits in the

living room pretending to ignore her.

EXT. STREET. DAY

Wendy walks her bike with the wind in her face.

From behind her, Mikey rides up on his bike and rides

alongside her.

She doesn't look at him.

Trying to stay on his bike, but moving slowly, he wobbles,

nearly falling off.

EXT. HOOD HOUSE. DAY

The taxi pulls up. Elena gets out and pays the driver.

INT. HOOD KITCHEN. DAY

Ben is in front of the open freezer, trying to get something

out. He hears Elena come in the front door.

She comes up and together they tug and pull until they

succeced in extracting a large, frozen turkey. As they pull

it out, it slips from their hands and, after a dull thump,

slides along the floor.

They smile.

Elena bends over to pick it up. Ben observes her. She notices

his look.

He goes over and picks up the turkey, placing it in the sink.

He looks back at her and notices her vaguely distraught look.

They stand together, his concern and her vulnerability

forming an awkward attraction between them.

She kisses him as if she needed him.

INT. HOOD HALLWAY. DAY

Ben and Elena enter their bedroom. Elena closes the door

quietly behind her.

INT. HOOD BEDROOM. DAY

Ben and Elena undress shyly.

They make love. Elena's face is almost fearful.

Elena and Ben lie in bed side by side in the pale afternoon

light. Neither speaks. Ben turns on his side, and notices a

small tear forming in Elena's eyes.

He gets up and starts to get dressed.

He smells the armpits of the shirt he's putting on.

He looks at her ruefully.

EXT. HOOD STREET. DAY

Wendy walks and Mikey rides along.

They're now in front of the Hood's house.

EXT. HOOD HOUSE. DAY

Ben exits the house in a rush, and sees Wendy and Mikey on

the street in front.

CONTINUED: 85

Ben grimaces, fiddles for his car keys.

As Mikey remounts and rides off, Wendy passes her father on

the driveway.

INT. HOOD LIVING ROOM. DAY

Wendy enters the house and climbs the stairs.

She sees the crumpled bed sheets in her parents' room and

hears Elena in the shower.

EXT. NEW CANAAN STATION. DAY

Paul walks to the parking lot with his father, who carries

his duffel bag.

EXT. STREETS. DAY

Ben's car heading back to the house with Paul.

INT. HOOD CAR. DAY

He makes a sharp turn. Paul puts his arms up on the dashboard

to steady himself.

He pauses to gauge the effect of his monologue on his son,

then continues.

Just then Ben runs a stop sign and almost slams into another

car.

EXT. HOOD HOUSE. DAY

The car pulls up. Paul gets out, looking shell-shocked. He

sees Wendy waving to him from a second floor window. He nods

back.

In the doorway, Elena waits.

INT. HOOD HALLWAY. DAY

Paul knocks on Wendy's bedroom door. She opens it.

INT. WENDY'S ROOM. DAY

Paul and Wendy sit on the floor.

They both ponder silently. Then:

EXT. HOOD HOUSE. DAY

Morning. To establish.

INT. HOOD BEDROOM. DAY

Elena is coming out of the master bathroom in a robe, a towel

wrapped around her head.

INT. HOOD HALLWAY. DAY

Ben Hood pads down the hall in his bathrobe, tries the

bathroom door. It's locked.

INT. HOOD BATHROOM. DAY

The shower is running, but Paul is standing by the open

window, puffing on a joint and trying to blow the smoke

outside.

Ben walks back to the bedroom, smirking.

INT. HOOD DINING ROOM. DAY

One by one, each member of the Hood carried in a final item

to place on the overstuffed Thanksgiving table. Then, one by

one, they each silently take their seats.

They look over the table. No one moves.

Wendy grimaces, as they all bow their heads slightly.

Everyone looks up.

Mutterings and groans: "Wendy!" "For Christ's sake" etc.

They all unceremoniously start to dig in.

INT. WILLIAMS GUEST ROOM. DAY

Janey Williams is pouring Benjamin Hood a drink from a bottle

of vodka. Benjamin is already unbuttoned and shoeless; Janey

still fully dressed.

She sits next to him, he kisses the back of her neck.

Janey gives him a rather contemptuous look.

Janey gets up.

Benjamin looks at her quizzically.

She leaves the room.

He leans back onto the bed. Sits back up. Takes a sip of

vodka. Puts the glass down. Takes his socks off. He's now in

just his jockey shorts and shirt.

Faintly, he hears a door close. The front door?

He takes another sip.

He hears another sound.

Nothing.

He goes to the door and carefully opens it.

He hears, quite audibly, a car door open, close, Janey's car

start and pull out.

He runs to a front window just in time to catch a glimpse of

her driving off.

INT. GUEST ROOM. LATER

Benjamin sits on the guest bed, still in his underwear,

drinking from the bottle.

He gets up and starts to wander around the house, still

holding the bottle.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM. CONT'D

Benjamin saunters through. He presses on the king-sized bed --

it undulates.

He wiggles comically, making more waves.

Ben idly goes through Janey's drawers.

INT. WILLIAMS MASTER BATHROOM. CONT'D

He rifles through the bathroom cabinet, checking out the

medicines.

INT. WILLIAMS BEDROOM. CONT'D

He notices a garter belt hanging from the walk-in closet

door. He picks it up and twirls it.

INT. MIKEY'S ROOM. CONT'D

Benjamin walks in, an obvious look of distaste.

He sorts through a few of Mike's things -- monster eyes that

glow in the dark, The Sensuous Woman, etc.

He twirls the garter belt absentmindedly, then tosses it into

the back of Mike's closet.

INT. GUEST ROOM. CONT'D

He finishes putting his clothes back on. As he reaches for

the door, he hears voices and quickly steps back in again.

Teenage voices. Mikey and Wendy.

Hood hears their steps down into the basement.

INT. BASEMENT. DAY

Wendy and Mikey stand in the middle of the semi-lit basement.

But Wendy doesn't seem to hear -- she's drawn to an object

lying next to a bean bag chair off to one side.

With a look of utter fascination, she picks up a Nixon mask,

looking at it as though it were an archeological find.

She puts the mask on.

Mikey looks totally confused.

Remaining fully clothed, Wendy loosens Mike's belt, showing

no excitement from behind her mask, and lets him climb on top

of her for a dry hump.

Just then, a shaft of light hits them from the top of the

stairs -- Ben towers above them, looking down.

Mikey flips over immediately and pulls his clothes together,

grabbing a TV Guide as Wendy stands up, the mask still on.

As Ben descends Mikey, still stuffing his shirt-tail into his

pants, pretends to flip through the TV Guide.

Ben arrives, folds his arms.

She stands next to Mikey for a moment, both on the verge of

tears.

EXT. STREET. EVENING

Hood and Wendy walk through a cold drizzling rain.

He looks at her from time to time, then takes her arm.

She looks at him. They keep walking. She walks through a

puddle.

He stops and lifts her in his arms.

She puts her arms around his neck and he lifts her up.

On her face, as he carries her -- a look of blank but real

intimacy.

INT. HOOD FRONT HALL. EVENING

Hood and Wendy enter, wet and cold, muttering hellos.

Wendy heads for the stairs, Hood following.

INT. HOOD BEDROOM. EVENING

Hood finishes taking off his wet clothes as Elena enters and

turns on a light. She stands watching him.

Not much response From Elena.

She walks down to the kitchen, Benjamin following her.

INT. KITCHEN. EVENING

Wendy is already in the kitchen, fishing through the drawers

for silverware and napkins.

Paul enters.

INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT

A silent dinner of turkey sandwiches with Elena, Benjamin,

and Wendy. The turkey carcass sits, embarrassed, in the

middle of the table.

Wendy, finished, gets up from the table. Opens the fridge,

but finds nothing. Then goes to the candy shelf and grabs

some Hot Tamales, leaving the room without a word and going

into the den.

INT. DEN. NIGHT

Wendy turns the TV on.

INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT

Hood and Elena rise from the table with their dishes.

His plate slips out of his hands into the trash. He fishes it

out and sets it on the counter.

Silence.

INT. DEN. NIGHT

Wendy puts the volume of the TV up, to drown out a

conversation she can almost overhear but doesn't want to.

INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT. CONT'D

Seemingly tired, he stands before her. Silence. Elena sighs,

then walks into the den.

INT. DEN. NIGHT

Elena kisses the top of her head.

EXT. HOOD HOUSE. NIGHT

Elena and Ben emerge from the house, and look up at a

darkening, foreboding sky. A light rain falls. They jog

toward their car.

INT/EXT. HOOD CAR. NIGHT

The car moves slowly through the rainy suburban streets.

Inside, Elena and Ben don't speak.

EXT. HALFORD HOUSE. NIGHT

Their Firebird pulls up. There are already many other cars

parked on the lawn and driveway.

INT. HALFORD FOYER. NIGHT

Hood and Elena enter. Dot Halford accosts them.

Finishing the last of a celery canoe, she kisses the air next

to Ben's ear and gives Elena a manic hug.

Then, picking up a white salad bowl from the hall table:

Close on: the bowl full of keys.

INT./EXT. CAR. CONT'D

Ben and Elena climb back in the car and close the doors,

shivering.

She rubs her eyes.

She pulls the keys out of the ignition, gets out of the car,

and slams the door. He follows her.

INT. HALFORD FOYER. NIGHT

Elena, entering the house again, tosses the keys at Dot

Halford, who looks surprised.

Hood slides in behind his wife.

Dot drops the keys into the bowl.

Slow-motion, close up: the keys, on their equine chain, fall

in with a THUNDEROUS CRASH.

INT. HALFORD LIVING ROOM. CONT'D

The room is crowded with nervous, expectant couples and

various groupings.

Elena slips into a side room.

Benjamin heads over immediately to the drink table and pours

a stiff one, turning around to find at his elbow none other

than George Clair.

Benjamin catches a glimpse of Janey, voluptuously attired,

across the room.

At this, they both notice Elena slowly gliding across the

other side of the room. Clair gives Ben a sideways glance,

then moves on.

Ben makes straight for Janey, who pretends to be preoccupied

with a plant.

Janey takes a sip of her drink.

Stalling, he watches her take another sip of her drink and

wander off.

The air is filled with talk of Watergate, Billie Jean King,

the Oil Crisis, the Mets.

Benjamin goes over to the couch, where Dave Gorman is

chatting up an attractive younger woman.

But then, Benjamin changes his mind.

Taking the joint, he tugs on it, holding the smoke in his

lungs.

He rises unsteadily, weaving through the room's

conversations.

Benjamin walks over to a window. The outdoor lamps illuminate

a new and heavy downpour of frozen sleet.

INT. CONRAIL TRAIN. NIGHT

Paul is seated, reading the latest number of The Fantastic

Four comic book. The cover displays a lurid, atomically

glowing baby.

The conductor walks through the cabin.

Paul looks out the window at the tenements of Harlem, barely

visible through the walls of sleet. Soon the train enters the

tunnel toward the station.

EXT. PARK AVENUE APARTMENT BUILDING. NIGHT

Paul gets out of a cab and heads inside. He's met by the

doorman.

INT. HALL IN FRONT OF LIBBETS' APARTMENT DOOR. NIGHT

Paul rings the bell.

Paul opens the door, and enters the apartment.

INT. LIBBETS' APARTMENT. NIGHT

It's half dark, has an air of old wealth.

Libbets skids across the parquet floor to him.

She turns and runs into the den.

And there, in the den, cleaning an ounce of dope on an open

copy of Nixon's Six Crises, is -- Francis.

The television is turned on to a weather report about the

coming ice storm.

Paul trudges disconsolately out of the room.

INT. LIBBETS KITCHEN. NIGHT

Paul, after wandering a maze of halls, enters the kitchen,

where he takes a six-pack out of the fridge and returns to

the living room.

INT. LIBBETS LIVING ROOM. NIGHT

He enters the room with the beer.

Francis licks closed a second joint, then takes the beer and

opens it with his rear molars.

Paul opens the other two beers and hands one to Libbets. They

light up a joint.

Paul and Francis exchange a look.

She puts an Allman Brothers tape on the 8-track and turns the

TV down.

INT. HOOD BATHROOM. DAY

Wendy enters the bathroom.

She fills the sink with water, then turns off the tap. She

takes a razor blade from the counter, and slowly,

determinedly, holds it to her wrist.

She presses it into her skin, drawing a small drop of blood.

She drops the blade and splashes water on her wrist, grabbing

some toilet paper and holding it against the tiny wound.

She hears the phone ring and walks downstairs.

INT. HOOD DEN. NIGHT

Wendy picks up the phone.

INT. WILLIAMS KITCHEN. NIGHT

Mikey is on the other end of the line.

INT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. NIGHT

Mikey, bundled up in a huge orange ski parka and cap, heads

for the door.

Sandy just looks at him. He walks out into the night.

INT. HALFORD'S. NIGHT

Elena sits on a couch, talking to no one, barely looking up,

when someone stands in front of her.

He sits beside her.

Philip's about to reply, but thinks better of it.

They sit glumly next to each other for a minute. Then Philip

rises.

He walks swiftly to the hall and hurriedly fishes his keys

out of the bowl, then heads for the door.

He laughs at his own joke as Philip rushes out the front

door.

Back to Elena, even more forlorn than before.

INT. LIBBETS APARTMENT BATHROOM. NIGHT

Paul enters the bathroom. We hear Francis' and Libbets'

voices from the other room, laughing.

He pees.

At the sink, he pauses in front of the medicine cabinet, then

opens it.

He pulls out some bottles.

He pockets the Seconal and turns out the light.

INT. LIBBETS APARTMENT DEN. NIGHT

Paul re-enters the den to find Francis alone.

Paul takes out the bottle and opens it.

He hands a pill to Francis, then pretends to pop one into his

mouth and takes a swig of his beer. As Francis downs his own,

Paul pockets his unswallowed pill.

Libbets reaches into his pocket and pulls out the bottle.

She opens up the bottle and takes one out.

She takes the pill.

Paul looks on, thwarted.

INT. HALFORD'S. NIGHT

Ben is back at the bar, pouring another tall one. Mark Boland

sidles up next to him.

Ben feels a wave of distaste at the joke.

He looks across the room as Maria and her son Neil (stringy

hair, acne, tie-dyed turtleneck, patched jeans) are engaging

Janey and Philip Edwards in conversation.

INT. LIBBETS' APARTMENT. NIGHT

Paul, Francis, and Libbets sit on the floor, listening to the

music blasting at full strength.

Libbets and Francis are obviously on the verge of

unconsciousness. Paul regards them with a look of

apprehension on his face.

INT. HALFORD'S. NIGHT

Neil has now cornered Janey.

INT. LIBBETS' APARTMENT. NIGHT

Libbets puts a blanket over a sleeping Francis, who's crashed

out on the floor in a corner. Francis alternates between

snores and various mumbled delirious ravings.

Paul is sitting on the couch, and Libbets comes back and sits

at his feet, facing up to him.

Libbets is herself somewhat in dreamland.

Her head bobs and weaves, her eyes close, and suddenly her

head falls forward with a whoosh toward the couch -- smack

dab between Paul's legs.

She begins to snore instantly, her open mouth nuzzling into

his crotch.

Paul doesn't move, doesn't even breathe. Then, slowly, he

leans his back into the couch, without shifting the rest of

his body.

He looks as though he has simultaneously won the lottery and

received a lobotomy.

INT. HALFORD'S. NIGHT

The crowd's a bit thinner than before.

As Dot Halford begins calling out for everyone's attention, a

few couples make their last-minute way to the door.

She scoops up the bowl and places it on a high end table

which has been put in the middle of the room.

Elena waves at Janey Williams, who is standing across the

living room.

Janey looks back without expression.

INT. LIBBETS' APARTMENT. NIGHT

Libbets and Paul in the same position whence last we saw

them.

Paul delicately leans to one side of the couch and picks up a

phone. He dials a number.

INT. HOOD LIVING ROOM. NIGHT

The phone rings. Wendy picks it up.

Paul hangs up the phone and looks down at Libbets.

Libbets' Allman Brothers tape has run out. The machine makes

a repeated clicking sound as the take up real continues to

circle. The only other sound is the noise of the wind and

rain lashing against the apartment's windows.

EXT. HOOD HOUSE. NIGHT

Wendy emerges from the house and gets on her bike, but the

ice makes it too slippery. The storm is now in full swing.

She gets off and walks.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT

Wendy walks, barely keeping her balance in the wind.

INT. HALFORD'S NIGHT

All the couples are now gathered for the key selection

process, men on one side of the room, women on the other. The

storm can be heard outside.

Nervous laughter.

Maria chooses Stephen Earle. Hands the keys to him. A

smattering of applause as she takes his arm and they leave.

Neil watches his mother's exit.

A few more couplings.

Helen Worthington approaches the bowl. Helen Worthington has

the size and shape of a sumo wrestler.

There is a nervous shifting of weight on the male side of the

room.

Helen delicately reaches into the bowl. Her hands emerge with

a key chain.

George Clair steps forward, obviously depressed, as a

collective sigh of relief goes up from behind him. Ben looks

on, momentarily triumphant.

Elena smiles to herself.

The Gadds choose each other.

Mr. Gadd smiles as they leave, obviously happy to go.

Finally, only Mark Boland, Neil Conrad, Janey and Jim

Williams, Rob and Dot Halford, Sari Steele, Benjamin and

Elena.

Elena steps forward. Benjamin is obviously agitated.

Close on Janey's hands selecting -- away from Ben's equine

key ring.

She lifts up another key ring -- Neil Conrad, the teenager.

She hands the self-important-looking Neil his keys and they

turn to go.

Jim Williams smiles mysteriously to himself.

Ben suddenly lurches forward, semi-drunkenly, trying to

separate Neil from Janey.

He backs off, ashamed, and, taking a step backwards, trips

over the coffee table.

Mark Boland helps lift him up.

Dot follows Mark Boland down the hall behind Ben.

Suddenly, it's just Elena and Jim Williams, and Sari Steele

and Rob Halford.

Elena and Jim look at each other.

Jim and Elena stand there alone.

She takes the bowl and dips her hand in. Two sets are left.

One, her own, she avoids. She takes out Jim's keys and walks

across the room, handing them to him.

They sit down on the sofa.

They both look at their hands.

But they still walk around turning off lights.

In the hallway, Elena looks a bit mournfully at the light

seeping from underneath the bathroom door. She hears the

sound of running water from inside.

Then she goes into a sideroom and joins Jim. They pick up

their coats.

EXT. HALFORD HOUSE. NIGHT

Elena and Jim walk outside into the freezing, pelting rain.

Covering their faces, they jog to his car, an oversized

Cadillac. A thick glaze of ice forms on his windshield.

INT. JIM'S CADILLAC. NIGHT

They climb in.

He turns on the ignition, and the vents start to blow cold

air at them.

He leans over and kisses her.

That starts it. He jumps at her, unbuckling her and unzipping

himself.

They tangle uncomfortably for a few seconds. And then,

comically, he's in her.

With a groan, it's over in a flash.

Jim pulls himself off, readjusting his pants.

Elena has somehow worked herself into the cavity of the glove

compartment, and is trying to figure out how to extricate

herself.

She opens the door and walks back to the house.

INT. HALFORD'S. CONT'D

Elena hesitantly walks to the bathroom.

She opens the door. Ben's sitting on the floor, next to the

toilet, woozily flipping through the pages of a magazine.

She sits on the toilet next to him, stroking his hair.

He sits, accepting and quiet.

EXT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. NIGHT

Wendy walks up the drive in the rain, pauses, then goes to

the front door and knocks lightly. The door swings ajar. She

pushes on it, and lets herself in.

INT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. NIGHT

Wendy wanders into the living room, then climbs the steps.

The sound of the wind and the darkness begin to scare her.

She goes into Mikey's room -- it's even more of a disaster

zone than usual.

She sees on the wall his dark-light poster of the 12 (sexual)

positions of the zodiac.

She notices the black garter belt on the floor, and picks it

up, absentmindedly swinging it in her hand as she walks out

of the room.

She walks back down the stairs and into the kitchen, leaving

the garter belt on the counter.

She opens the refrigerator, grabs a jar of peanut butter, and

scoops some up in her finger. As she puts her finger in her

mouth --

She gives out a little yelp.

INT. JIM'S CADILLAC. NIGHT

Elena gets in. They drive off silently.

EXT. STREETS. NIGHT

The car moves haltingly through the sleet and ice, inches up

a hill, then falters and slides back silently, circling a

couple of times before crashing into an embankment.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

As the car slides and crashes amid Jim's and Elena's screams.

Silence.

EXT. CAR. NIGHT

Jim and Elena get out, shaky, from the car.

They pause for a moment.

The street lamp above them sizzles, but stays on.

They start to walk.

INT. LIBBETS' APARTMENT. NIGHT

Paul and Libbets, still frozen in the same position. Finally,

Paul gently pushes Libbets' head back.

It slides off his leg and, as Paul lurches forward in a

failed attempt to grab it, Libbets flops backwards, her head

hitting the carpet with a dull but decidedly loud thump.

Paul gets up, looks down at her.

She snores.

He runs over to a side table and sees the clock: 11:10.

He grabs his comic books and runs for the door.

INT. TAXI. NIGHT

The driver impassively inches down Park Avenue.

INT. GRAND CENTRAL STATION PLATFORM. NIGHT

Paul sprints down the platform just as the doors are closing.

He barely makes it into the train.

INT. TRAIN. NIGHT

Paul walks through the nearly empty train car and finds a

seat. He pulls his Fantastic Four comic book out of his coat

pocket.

INT. HALFORD KITCHEN. NIGHT

Ben makes his way to the kitchen, pours himself a cup of

coffee.

He sees himself reflected in the black glass of the cabinets.

INT. SANDY'S ROOM. NIGHT

Sandy and Wendy are sitting on the floor. He grabs his G.I.

Joe.

He pulls the dog tag on the doll, and G.I. Joe emits a

plastic macho voice.

Wendy takes the doll and yanks the cord.

During the course of his monologue, as Wendy looks on, Sandy

calmly ties a noose for his doll.

He puts the noose over the doll's head, as Wendy holds him.

Sandy drapes the noose over the edge of a dresser drawer.

G.I. Joe dangles. They both look at him in silence.

The silence continues.

She takes him down and lays him flat on the bed. And then

begins to remove his clothes.

Sandy looks on, desirous.

They speak with high seriousness.

Wendy slides up on the bed where Sandy sits, a pillow on his

lap, and one by one, with exaggerated slowness, she removes

her snowboots, as if they were stiletto heels.

Sandy begins to shake.

Sandy begins to cry.

She takes his hand, and they walk out of the room and down

the hall, into the guest room.

INT. GUEST ROOM. NIGHT

Wendy and Sandy enter. She sees the vodka bottle on the

dresser.

She fills the glass to the brim and hands the bottle to

Sandy.

They clink and each toss back a sip -- Wendy almost the

entire glass.

Sandy coughs and gags, but swallows.

He does.

They drink.

Under they go, and soon every layer of clothing emerges.

Sandy begins to laugh, and soon Wendy joins him.

They roll around on top of each other for a while.

Sandy shakes his head.

Sandy doesn't answer, but climbs back on top of her and

kisses her neck.

Sandy rolls off her and lies on his back.

They cuddle up together.

He yawns. She yawns.

EXT. SILVER MEADOW. NIGHT

Mikey walks along the edge of the empty pool in the rain. He

climbs up on the diving board and bounces lightly on it, but

then gets off and stands, looking down at the pool again.

EXT. SILVER MEADOW. NIGHT

Mikey walks across the field.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT

The storm has let up. Mikey walks along. With a running

start, he slides on the ice down a hill.

He walks back up and slides again, hollering with joy. He is

an image of a tiny yet absolute and positive freedom.

The streetlights sputter on, then off.

INT. WILLIAMS GUEST ROOM. NIGHT

Sandy and Wendy lie asleep.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT

A power line is down. It hisses and HUMS -- a humming very

much like the humming Mikey has been hearing earlier.

The humming takes on the same transcendent tonality to which

Mikey has become so accustomed at such moments.

Mikey sits down on a metal street guardrail, to ponder the

sound and the snaking coil of electricity.

A strange look of almost religious wonder overcomes his face,

as the power line connects to the guardrail.

Glued by an electrical pulse to the rail, he shakes as the

current flows through him.

After a minute, his body slumps and slides down the road.

INT. TRAIN. NIGHT

As Paul sits reading on he moving train, the lights inside

begin to sputter, and the train begins to slow. After a few

moments, the train grinds to a halt, and Paul and his few

fellow late night passengers are left in near total dark,

with only the light of an emergency exit sign above Paul's

head to light the scene.

The train is eerily silent.

EXT. HOOD CAR. NIGHT

Ben drives home.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT

An emergency vehicle, lights flashing, crawls by Ben's car.

He drives on slowly.

EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF WILLIAMS HOUSE. PRE-DAWN

Jim and Elena arrive on foot.

INT. WILLIAMS KITCHEN. PRE-DAWN

He walks into the kitchen. The pipes have begun to burst.

There's a water leak running down the walls, forming a puddle

on the floor.

Elena has walked into the kitchen behind him. She leans

against the counter, picking up the garter belt without

thinking for a second, then putting it back down.

Elena climbs the stairs in her bare feet.

INT. WILLIAMS GUEST ROOM. CONT'D

Elena opens the door, and discovers Wendy and Sandy asleep.

She stands before the bed, and gazes down on them.

They look almost angelic.

Wendy, sensing her presence in the room, opens her eyes,

slowly coming out of sleep.

Elena walks out of the room, back to the kitchen.

Wendy gets out of bed quietly, leaving Sandy sleeping

peacefully.

She looks at him lovingly, and tucks the blanket back up

around him.

INT. WILLIAMS KITCHEN. DAWN

Elena and Jim are drinking coffee.

Wendy enters. She looks inquisitively at the two adults.

INT. HOOD CAR. DAWN

Ben continues to drive slowly. He looks out his side window,

and sees something. He puts on his brakes.

EXT. STREET. DAWN

Ben gets out of the car, and stands on the top of an icy

embankment. In a clump of bushes is the orange glow of a

parka.

He walks hesitantly toward it. Mike's body lies face down in

the wet ice.

Ben leans down and turns the body over, then stands back in

amazement and saddened shock.

He stands there for a moment, then picks Mike's body up,

carrying him over the hill and onto the street. We see now

that he is parked just a short block from the Williams's

house.

He bypasses his car and walks directly down the street toward

the house. The effort is obviously enormous. He falls from

time to time, then gets back up.

INT. TRAIN. PRE-DAWN

Various passengers asleep.

Paul, hunched up in his seat under the faint emergency exit

light, cold. He reads his comic book by the light of the

emergency exit.

Suddenly, the lights begin to flicker on and the hum of the

train's engines returns.

The conductor enters the car, blasting forth in his classic

nasal train conductor voice.

On Paul, squinting in the harsh light.

EXT. TRAIN BRIDGE. PRE-DAWN

The train moves slowly through a suburban, semi-forested

landscape. On the street below the bridge, an emergency

highway crew is removing a fallen tree, their trucks aglow in

flashing yellow lights.

INT. WILLIAMS KITCHEN. DAWN

Elena pours Wendy a cup of coffee. They're both in their

coats.

Elena sits next to her. They both raise their cups and sip

the coffee, not noticing the simultaneity of their movements.

INT. GUEST ROOM. DAWN

Jim watches the sleeping Sandy, picks up the half-empty

bottle of vodka, pours himself a drink. The noise wakes Sandy

up. Jim sits down on the bed at his feet and takes a sip.

Jim looks at him.

INT. KITCHEN. DAWN

Elena and Wendy hear a hollering from outside, get up to see

what it is.

EXT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. DAWN

Elena and Wendy come out the front door, as Ben lays Mikey's

body onto the ground before the front steps.

He's too breathless to speak.

They stand there, looking down at Mikey.

Behind Elena and Wendy, Jim appears.

He pushes softly by them toward the body of his son.

Jim picks up his son.

He carries him silently into the house.

Sandy, now standing inside the foyer, pushes himself back

against the wall as they pass, without expression.

After a moment, from outside, the Hoods can hear Jim's

wailing.

Wendy has been watching Sandy through the screen door.

She turns back up the front steps and gently goes in --

INT. WILLIAMS LIVING ROOM. CONT'D

on the living room floor, Jim is hugging Mike's body, his

shoulders shaking uncontrollably, sobbing.

Wendy walks and stands next to Sandy, who is filled

momentarily with a brief inexplicable rush of anger toward

her -- but she takes him and gives him an awkward, childlike

hug, then turns and runs out the door, joining Ben and Elena

on the driveway. Sandy watches her go, his face wet with

tears.

EXT. WILLIAMS HOUSE. CONT'D

EXT. STREET. DAWN

Elena, Wendy, and Ben reach the car and get in. The car

starts and drives off.

There are more crews out cleaning up the storm's debris and

fixing the power lines as they drive.

EXT. CONRAIL STATION. EARLY MORNING

The train slowly pulls in. The Hood family walks down to the

end of the platform.

The train doors open, and Paul, tired and a bit cramped,

emerges. He sees his family gathered at the other end of the

platform, and walks to them.

They stand, silent, even dignified, awaiting him.

When he joins them they all walk silently to the car and get

in.

INT. HOOD CAR. EARLY MORNING

Sunlight floods in and temporarily blinds Ben as he starts

the engine.

He squints, his eyes tearing a bit from the light.

He looks around, first at his wife, then at his two children

sitting in the back seat.

He turns off the engine. Quietly, he begins to cry.

He turns to the back seat.

Elena puts her hand out, almost touching him.

Paul looks at Wendy, silently asking her what's happening.

She casts her eyes downward, as does he.

EXT. STATION PARKING LOT. MORNING

From above:

The car, the first morning light shining upon it.

