Interview with the Vampire

Screenplay by			Anne Rice

Produced by			Stephen Woolley

Directed by			Neil Jordan

Cast List:

Tom Cruise			Lestat de Lioncourt

Brad Pitt			Louis Pointe du Lac

Antonio Banderas		Armand

Stephen Rea			Santiago

Christian Slater		Daniel Malloy

Kirsten Dunst			Claudia

INT. ROOM - NIGHT (SAN FRANCISCO)

A small bare room, illuminated only by the streetlight

coming through the window.

A hand presses a cassette into a recorder and fiddles

with a small microphone.

Malloy sits over a table fiddling with the tape. He is

young, half-shaven, dressed in T-shirt and jeans. He

looks too -

LOUIS, who stands by the window, looking out on the

street, with his back to Malloy. Louis is dressed in an

old-fashioned suit.

Malloy laughs.

Still in shadow he turns from the window and approaches

the table.

Malloy is uneasy as he studies the shadowy figure,

fascinated but afraid.

Louis stands opposite, hand on the chair. Malloy is

riveted.

Louis pulls the chord of the overhead naked light bulb.

LOUIS' FACE

Appears inhumanly white, eyes glittering. Inhuman or

not alive. the effect is subtle, beautiful and ghastly.

He struggles to suppress fear and understand.

The light appears to go out by itself and suddenly

Louis is in the chair, dimly lit by the street-light

from the window. The cassette is turning.

Malloy is speechless, frightened yet enthralled.

EXT. LOUISIANA - DAY (1791)

A disheveled Louis, hair in pigtail, in deep pocket

frock coat, rides his horse through the fields of

indigo, passing an overseer and slaves at work.

He passes slave quarters and the distant colonial

mansion of Pointe du Lac.

He comes to a small parish church and a graveyard. he

dismounts and walks through the tombs to an elaborate

one in Greek Style.

There is a marble angel above the tomb, feminine, with

a tiny cherub angel in her arms. Louis looks from the

angel, down to the inscriptions on the tomb:

"DIANNE DE POINTE DU LAC 1763 - 1791

INFANT JEAN MARIE - 1791"

Louis rips away the vines already covering the

inscription, then drinks from a pocket-flask. His face

is ashen.

INT. WATERFRONT TAVERN - NIGHT

Louis in ragged lace and dirty brocade sitting between

two whores at a gaming table, drinking absinthe. All

around him flatboatmen, whores, gamblers, black African

freedmen.

Louis displays a hand of four aces. A gambler at the

table stands in fury, over turning money, cards,

drinks.

The Gambler pulls out a pearl-handled pistol and points

it at Louis. The crowd hushes and draws back. Louis

smiles drunkenly and stands. he rips open his lace

shirt, exposing his chest.

The Gambler's finger on the trigger. His hand shakes.

LESTAT, a hooded figure in the corner, smiles from

beneath the shadow of his hood. Gleaming blue eyes.

The Gambler lowers his gun, scowling. Louis pockets the

fistfulls of coins he has won.

EXT. WATERFRONT - NIGHT

Loud, crowded riverfront taverns full of ruffians.

Louis staggers down, an arm around a whore, drinking

from a bottle. A pockmarked pimp follows behind.

EXT. WHARF - NIGHT

Louis, quite insensible, being propped up against a

wall by the whore in a dank wharf over the water. The

pimp rifles his pockets, then pulls a knife, about to

slice his throat, when a shadow falls over him. He

turns, and we see the face of Lestat, who lifts him

into the air by his throat, breaking his neck. the

whore screams and Lestat's other hand clamps over her

mouth. Lestat drags her towards him. Louis falls to the

ground, supported no more, insensible. Close on his

face, as we hear the last breaths of life of the whore,

off.

IN THE WATER

The bodies of the thief and whore float by. Above on

the wharf, Louis, now awake, stares down at them. He

turns, to see Lestat, towering above him.

Lestat floats down on top of him, then lifts him in the

air, draws his head back by the hair and sinks his

teeth in his neck.

ON LOUIS' FACE

Every muscle rigid, teeth clenched, as the blood is

drained from him.

ON THEIR FEET

Hovering above the ground, like two quivering dancers.

THE WIND billows through the ghostly white sails and

rigging of the boats around the wharf.

LESTAT

Floats higher, with Louis in his arms, draining his

blood. One hand reaches out and grips a rope, hanging

from a shipmast. The other holds Louis. He withdraws

his teeth, and looks into Louis' drained face.

Louis can barely get the words out.

Lestat smiles and lets him go. Louis falls and plummets

into the water below.

LOUIS' FACE

Coming to the surface, in the water lapping by the

wharf. The bodies of the whore and thief float beside

him. He looks up and sees Lestat way above him,

dangling from the rope of the shipmast.

INT. ROOM - SAN FRANCISCO

ON MALLOY'S FACE

Captivated, terrified, enthralled.

EXT. WATERFRONT - DAY

Louis floating by mudflats, surrounded by dead fish,

the carcasses of animals, eighteenth century rubbish.

He gets to his feet and walks weakly through the

mudflats. The sun is coming up over the sea behind him.

INT. LAVISH FRENCH-FURNISHED BEDROOM AT POINT DU LAC

Louis is delirious in a four-poster bed, shrouded with

mosquito netting. A female slave, YVETTE, bathes his

face with a rag. She is crying. Other slave women hover

in the shadows. Yvette puts out all candles save one by

the bed, and withdraws, with the others.

Candlelight flickers on the face of the bisque virgin.

Louis tosses and turns, dreaming, murmuring

incoherently. Then he opens his eyes.

LESTAT, exquisitely dressed in French clothing, stands

by the bed smiling. In the light of the candle we see

that he is not human; skin too white; eyes too bright.

Lestat looks amiable, even mischievous, but impossible

- and angel or monster.

Louis grabs his pistol from the table and cocks it.

Louis takes aim. Lestat puts his hand over the barrel.

Louis fires. The bullet tears a hole in Lestat's hand.

Lestat is unfazed. He takes the gun from Louis' hand

and throws it away. His hand begins to heal.

Louis reaches for his sword, hanging by the bed, and

point it. Lestat laughs indulgently. He draws closer.

He comes closer to Louis, right up to his face, so the

sword passes through his waistcoat.

He reaches out with his now-healed hand and plucks out

the sword.

Lestat sits down on the bed, drawing up one knee. Louis

is becoming spellbound.

The vampire theme rises, with the sound of a heartbeat.

EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT

The camera drifts through the graveyard where Louis'

wife is buring. Everything is lit with an eerie glow,

as if seen through some unearthly eye.

Louis and Lestat drifting, dreamlike, through the

overhanging vines, comes to the grave of his wife and

child. Above the crypt, the statue of angel, mother and

child.

The marble fingers of the child on the statue move. The

angel raises her head and has the face of Louis wife,

Diane. she raises her hand and touches Louis tear-

streamed face. The child speaks.

Louis reaches out to embrace them and finds himself

touching cold marble. He cries out in anguish-

INT. LOUIS BEDROOM - NIGHT

Louis, thrashing on the bed in a delirium. Lestat

places a hand on his forehead and soothes him.

Lestat bends close as if to drink Louis' blood. Louis

does not shrink back, but stares into his eyes. Lestat

draws back, then stands up and goes to the French

doors.

He looks outside.

He leaves. Louis sits dazed, staring at the empty

French window. The sun rises with unnatural beauty,

over the swamplands and the plantation, filling the

room, striking water-pitcher, glass, mirror, and the

picture of his dead wife.

EXT. PLANTATION - NIGHT

Lestat and Louis walk through the slave quarters,

huddles groups around fires, music, singing. The sound

of whipping is heard.

In the woods beyond the quarters, the white overseer is

whipping a black slave, with horrifying savagery.

Louis calls.

The overseer turns and comes towards them, with the

bloodied whip.

The overseer looks into his eyes, shivers with terror,

drops the whip and runs for the trees. Lestat is on him

in an instant. He sinks is teeth in his neck. Louis

runs to him, tries to pull him off. But Lestat turns to

Louis and smiles, with his bloodied mouth.

He flees, as Lestat ends to finish off the overseer.

EXT. POINTE DU LAC - NIGHT

Louis running up the steps leading to the gallery. He

is crazed with guilt. He looks up and sees -

LESTAT

Sitting collected at the head of the steps.

LOUIS

Backs away as Lestat rises and descends the steps so

fluidly he hardly seems to move.

Louis takes out his flask and drinks. Drunkenly, he

turns and heads for a nearby swamp.

EXT. CEMETERY - NIGHT

Louis stops again in front of the crypt. Drinks from

the flask, leans his forehead against the stone.

Lestat appears beside him, radiant, beautiful.

In a quiet rage, Lestat raise his fist and shatters the

marble face stone, revealing a coffin below. His fist

shatters that in turn, revealing the half-rotted body

of a women, holding an infant, no longer recognizable

as individuals, a tangle of gruesome rotted hair,

flesh, eaten away lace, insects and worms crawling over

it.

Louis gasps.

Lestat stares at him, smiling, becoming a hazy

dreamlike vision, then hyperclear. Louis again is

spellbound. He drops the flask, which shatters on the

stones.

Lestat appears angelic in his radiance.

Louis capitulates in one long sigh.

Lestat comes closer, smiling.

Lestat embraces Louis, obscuring his face. He drinks

his blood. We hear two heartbeats, out of sync, coming

together. We see Louis' face, growing paler, paler, as

his blood is drained. His eyes stare upwards, losing

their focus.

LOUIS' POV

The moon, through hanging vines. The marble statue of

his wife and child smile at him, as if come alive. Her

hair blows in the breeze, wonderful gold tresses, the

child's fingers reach out...

BACK TO SCENE

Lestat lets Louis fall down beside the broken crypt.

Louis looks from the rotting bodies to Lestat above

him. radiant. Lestat speaks gently.

Lestat lifts his hand to his lips and blows Louis a

kiss.

Lestat lifts his own right wrist to his teeth. Fangs

slash his own flesh, blood falls.

Louis rises to accept the first drops with his open

mouth. Lestat gathers him up, as Louis clamps his hand

on Lestat's arm and drinks from the wrist.

The VAMPIRE THEME swells.

Lestat watches him drink his wrist with wry amusement.

Louis finishes, staggers away from him as if drunk.

LOUIS' POV

Vampire vision. The world is transformed, the swamp,

the moon, the clouds, the cry of the night birds all

come to him with unnatural clarity. He looks down with

pity at the corpses of his wife and child who appear

beautiful in death now rather than repulsive. He closes

the lid of the coffin and replaces it in the ground,

astonished at the ease of it.

He turns and stares at Lestat whom he sees now with

vampire's vision. Lestat's eyes are brighter, his

buttons are glimmering in the light. Everything is

clearer, brighter, containing more facets of light and

color.

Lestat leads him into the swamp. Everything astonished

Louis, as if he's never seen it before. Louis is

suddenly racked by shudders of pain.

Louis dry-retches.

Lestat wipes Louis' brow.

Lestat laughs and his laughter echoes like bells in

Louis' ears.

LOUIS' VAMPIRE POV - SWAMP

Small high ground. Camp of runaway slaves. Several

share a bottle of rum around the fire. A male slave

rises. A gorgeous hunk of flesh in the moonlight and

goes into the swamp to relieve his bladder.

The slave walks towards them in the darkness. A

crucifix gleams round his neck.

Louis hesitates.

The slave looks up and sees them. Two gleaming white

beings standing before him with devil's eyes. The he

runs.

Louis can resist him no more. He swoops on him with a

vampire's rapid movement, brings him to the ground and

sinks his teeth in his neck.

Close on Louis feeding on the slave, the magnificent

body shuddering in its death-throes. Lestat stands

above, laughing.

The slave dies. Louis rises from him, drunkenly,

engorged with blood.

Louis looks down at the body of the slave. Lestat's

laughter echoes around him.

Lestat laughs harder. Louis runs from him, screaming in

anguish.

EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT

Louis reaches his wife's grave. He falls to his knees,

throws back his head and bares his new fangs to the

moon.

INT. ROOM. SAN FRANCISCO - NIGHT

Malloy stares at Louis, terrified and enthralled.

EXT. MANSION - NIGHT

Louis walks up the steps to the mansion. He looks now

like a fully-fledged vampire. Yvette, the slave girl

stares at him from the open doorway. Cascades of

harpsichord music come from the interior.

Louis enters the mansion, following the harpsichord

music, as if in a dream. Yvette draws back as he

approaches.

INT. MANSION - NIGHT

Louis wanders into the parlor, where Lestat is playing

the harpsichord rapidly and exuberantly. Louis goes to

a full-length mirror and sees his own reflection there

- quite the perfect vampire.

EXT. POINTE DU LAC

Dawn spreading over the plantation.

INT. BASEMENT - POINTE DU LAC

A brick walled storage room. Two coffins stand on the

floor. Lestat enters with a lantern, Louis behind.

Lestat is apprehensive and protective of Louis. He

pulls back one lid ot reveal a satin interior.

Louis approaches the coffin, hands trembling as he

peers into it.

Louis crawls into the coffin, fearful yet fascinated.

Lestat smiles bitterly and nods.

He closes the lid.

Total darkness. Sounds of Louis' panicked breathing. Of

his prayer again.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Louis and Lestat sitting at a sumptuous table, piled

with uneaten food. Lestat is going through sheafs of

documents.

Lestat, totting up figures on a piece of paper.

Louis just stares at him.

Lestat looks up at him and grins.

Yvette enters, stands behind him, staring at Lestat

with loathing.

Lestat laughs loudly. Louis turns and looks at Yvette.

Her beautiful forehead in the candlelight, the veins

pulsing on her neck and her hands.

Yvette returns his stare, troubled.

Yvette reaches for his uneaten plate. Louis stops her

hand. Holds it for a beat too long, looking at the

veins in her wrist.

She turns and runs from the table. Lestat leans towards

him.

His hand snakes out under the table. It comes up

holding a large grey rat.

He bares his fangs and slices the rat's throat. He

pours the blood into a crystal glass.

He hands the glass to Louis. Louis drinks the blood and

stares at it in surprise, then at the dead rat on the

fine lace tablecloth.

Lestat shrugs.

Lestat strokes the belly of the dead rat, studying it

sadly.

He throws the rat away.

He rises. Louis follows.

EXT. NEW ORLEANS - NIGHT

A big, lavish drinking place with a raised stage.

Italian actors in buffoonish costumes act crude

commedia dell'arte on the stage.

Plantation owners in soiled brocade, lace, crooked wigs

watch the show as tavern wenches move about.

Louis and Lestat by a table, in the shadow of a tree.

Teresa, a tavern wench, sits on Lestat's lap, pouring

drinks for the two of them. She lifts a fresh glass to

Lestat's lips as he flirts with her.

She kisses him. He lets his tongue play with hers, then

runs it down her neck. She swoons with pleasure. Then

he sinks his teeth gently in her neck, looking

playfully behind at Louis, who if appalled and

fascinated.

ANTICS ON THE STAGE

Laughter rocks the tavern.

Lestat slips the pale and dead Teresa into a chair

beside him and folds her hands on the table. No one

notices. He lays gold coins on the table and touches

Louis' knee.

Lestat rushes out, thrilled with himself.

EXT. TAVERN - NIGHT

A crowded street. Louis and Lestat emerge from the

tavern. Louis looks up at the moon.

They walk down the crowded night street, full of ladies

in their finery, freed slaves, whores, sailors etc.

INT. FRENCH QUARTER MANSION - BALLROOM

Small orchestra plays for colonial couples in fine wig

and garb prancing to a French minuet. Young women sit

in chairs along the walls with their chaperones. Young

men stand opposite.

A youth of preternatural beauty, silhouetted against

French windows. He is talking to an elegant widow,

seated, holding two manicured poodles. Lestat stares at

the youth with longing.

He leads Louis closer to them.

He smiles at the young man, who smiles in return.

EXT. LAWNS - NIGHT

Lestat walks the youth towards a copse of trees. He

looks back at Louis, who holds both poodles on a

delicate leash, walking with the widow. The minuet

spills from the french windows.

She leans towards him concquettishly. Louis, crazed

with hunger, sees her as beautiful in the moonlight. He

allows her lips reach his. He takes her in his arms,

gently, romantically, and sinks in his teeth. She

swoons.

Louis draws his lips away. She is weak in his arms, but

still alive. He can't do it. The poodles growl. He

shoots out an arm and grabs one, then the other.

EXT. TREES - NIGHT

Lestat, bending over the body of the dead youth. A

scream pierces the night.

EXT. LAWNS. NIGHT

The widow on the grass, her poodles dead beside her.

Louis is trying to quiet her.

Lestat comes from nowhere, claps a hand over her mouth

and breaks her neck. He spits in fury at Louis.

Louis throws himself on Lestat with extraordinary

force, pummeling him towards the trees.

Louis hurls him against tree after tree with a strength

he never knew he had.

He drags him to the ground an throttles him. Lestat

looks up at him, amazed and amused at the same time.

Lestat squirms from his grip, seemingly effortlessly.

He ruffles Louis' hair, with wry affection.

He smiles. A sly, pleasurable secret secret smile.

EXT. POINTE DU LAC - NIGHT

Their carriage draws up to the mansion as the first

fingers of light spread across the sky.

INT. SLAVE-HUT - NIGHT

In a tiny cabin, a slave family. Kids sleeping on the

floor, in cribs and cots. The parents sleep on the bed,

young, beautiful, naked. Beside them is Lestat, who is

drinking the husband's blood, his hand playing across

the breast of the wife as he does so. She murmurs in

her sleep.

She grabs his fingers and kisses them, thinking him to

be her husband. Lestat gently disengages himself and

leaves.

EXT. SLAVE-HUT - NIGHT

The woman's scream pierces the sky, as Lestat walks

into the night.

EXT. CHICKEN-COOP - NIGHT

Every chicken is dead, bloodies necks hanging down from

the cribs. Louis emerges from the entrance, blood on

his lips. He hears the scream.

EXT. SLAVE QUARTER - NIGHT

The sound of drumming is heard, African, primal. The

woman runs through the quarters, screaming grief.

Others gather at doorways, restrain and console her.

EXT. DOVE-COTE - DAY

A beautiful, elaborate eighteenth century dove-cote.

Every dove inside is dead, pierced at the neck. A black

hand throws in a flaming torch and it bursts into

flame.

INT. CABIN - NIGHT

A doll, made in the image of Lestat, is pierced with

needles.

EXT. SWAMP BY FIELDS - DAY

Bodies of slaves floating in the swamp, with the bodies

of goats. Slaves at the edge throw ropes around the

bodies, pull them towards the shore. The drumming grows

louder.

EXT. SLAVE-QUARTERS - NIGHT

Louis walking through. The slaves hush as he

approaches, gather in doorways and whisper. He turns

and looks at them, sorrowfully. He looks truly like a

ghost. Their eyes turn away when they meet his. He

walks on.

INT. DINING ROOM IN MANSION - NIGHT

Lestat and Louis sit at the table, the untouched food

between them.

Lestat spits out in anger.

The drumming grows outside.

Louis stares. Lestat turns childishly, petulantly.

He walks out, humming a French aria. Louis stares at

his plate.

EXT. SLAVE QUARTERS - NIGHT

The slaves, gathered on mass around fires. Frenzied

drumming, dancing. Lestat rides through, scattering the

flames. The drumming stops. The slaves look towards the

house. Slowly, they begin to move towards it.

INT. POINTE DU LAC DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Louis, sitting in despair by the table. Yvette, the

slave girl enters.

Louis laughs harshly.

Yvette draws closer. Light reveals her beauty.

Louis watches her sadly. He's getting hungry. Her

throat is long and slender, her breasts are gorgeous.

She comes closer, and he can hear her beating heart.

She touches his hair. He takes her hand and brings it

to his lips.

He kisses her wrist. She suddenly gasps, sharply,

withdraws her hand. She sees her wrist is red with

blood. She sees the blood on his lips. She screams.

Louis stands.

She screams even louder. Louis clamps his hand over her

mouth. Her hand grips the table-cloth, pulls, bringing

the empty glasses and crockery to the floor.

In horror, Louis realizes he has broken her neck. He

brings her cut wrist to his lips, then drops it,

revolted. He carries her body outside, grief-stricken.

The drumming grows louder.

EXT. MANSION - NIGHT

Fires burning in the distance, round the slave-cabins.

The slaves are gathered at the foot of the mansion

steps. They see Louis come out, holding the body of

Yvette. He is deranged with grief.

He places the body of Yvette in a rocking chair on the

veranda.

They don't move. They stare at him blankly.

He turns behind him, and looks at the mansion, all

candelabra and chandeliers lighted, all windows open.

He rushed up the stairs, snatches up the candelabra and

sets fire to the drapes. He goes from window to window,

lighting drapes, lace curtains, everything.

SLAVES POV - MASTER

Setting fire to the house.

They rush up the stairs with shouts of "STOP HIM, HE'S

MAD". A wall of flame gushes out from the interior,

blocking their way.

INT. BURNING MANSION - NIGHT

Louis, wandering from room to room of the burning

mansion. he sees paintings of his wife consumed by the

flames. He is weakening with the fumes, the heat. We

can see this in his face, the texture of his skin.

Suddenly a large french window cascades inwards and

Lestat stands there, whip in hand. Behind him we can

see the morning sky.

Louis stands there, weakened, then collapses onto the

floor. Lestat darts forward and catches him before he

drops. He runs out the shattered window, carrying him

on his shoulder.

EXT. LARGE GRAVEYARD - DAWN

With many crypts. Louis, unconscious, carried over

Lestat's shoulder.

INT. CRYPT

Darkness. Louis lying on the floor of a large crypt. He

slowly comes to.

Louis laughs softly.

INT. ROOM. SAN FRANCISCO - NIGHT

The vampire sits in silence, as if tired by his story.

Malloy speaks, hesitantly.

He looks directly at Malloy, shocking him with his

gaze.

EXT. NEW ORLEANS - EVENING

From the sea, at evening, shrouded in mist.

INT. INN - EVENING

A lavish little supper chamber with coffered bed, fancy

French furniture. Open to rooftops of colonial city.

Louis sits by an open window looking out over the city.

Behind, we can hear the laughter of Lestat and tow

female voices. Louis turns and sees -

Lestat, in the main chamber with two drugged or drunked

whores. One runs her finger down his chest. The other

seems out of it.

He presses his thumb on her neck and holds her tight,

sinking his teeth into her neck. After a time she falls

to the bed, dead. he turns to the other.

He rubs her breast.

He bites her in turn, drinks her blood. She does into

the swoon.

Louis looks on in disgust. He stands.

Lestat pulls away from the whore.

The girl moans.

The girl moans again, open her eyes.

He slashes her wrist with his teeth, and lets the blood

drip into a glass.

The girls moans again. Lestat drinks that glass.

The girl begins to scream. Lestat picks her up.

He walks to his coffin, puts her inside and sits on the

lid. We hear muffled screaming and banging from inside.

He stands up. The girl pushes the lid off, hysterical.

She looks at Louis.

Louis screams at Lestat

The girl grabs Louis and pleads.

He picks her up again. He turns to Louis laughing.

The girl screams. Louis puts his hands to his ears.

Then Lestat, in a fit of pique puts his teeth to her

neck. She dies at last.

A terrible silence descends. Lestat looks at Louis.

Louis leaves without a word.

EXT. DANK NEW ORLEANS BACK STREETS - NIGHT

A rat scurried down a gutter, then another and another.

Louis' hand grabs the rat. We see him from behind,

walking down the street, gripping one, then another.

A smaller side street, in which every house is marked

with an X. The street is crawling with rats, and Louis

is following them. A man passes with a lantern.

Louis smiles bitterly at these words, repeating them to

himself.

He walks on, following the rats.

A house, the door slightly open, marked with an X. The

sound of a child crying inside. Louis walks towards it.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

A little girl, pulling at a figure in a rocking chair.

As Louis enters, he sees the woman is dead. Her eyes

are being eaten away by rats.

Louis gasps in horror. Claudia turns. She is a radiant

doll or angel as she stretches out her hand to Louis.

She runs to him. Instinctively, he gathers her in his

arms. He looks down pitying on her beautiful face.

She snuggles into him, suddenly utterly secure. She

tugs at his hair, brings his head down towards her. And

we see Louis shiver, as his lips go to her neck.

Her breathing becomes calm as she goes into the swoon.

Gradually another sound replaces it.

LESTAT'S LAUGHTER, GROWING LOUDER AND LOUDER.

Suddenly Louis backs away, caught red-handed, the child

in his arms. He sees Lestat slapping his knee and

laughing in the doorway.

Louis stares at the unconscious Claudia in horror, then

lets her slip gently into a chair. Shamefully he wipes

his mouth, sees the tiny wounds on her throat.

Lestat snatches up the dead mother from the chair and

begins to dance with her in great circles, humming and

talking. Her head falls back. Black water flows from

her mouth.

Louis flees into the street.

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

Louis running through an assortment of streets. All the

night life of New Orleans flows by him.

EXT. WATERFRONT - DAWN

Fingers of light in the sky. Louis, pale and shivering,

walks splashing through the water. He comes to a huge

sewer-pipe, crowded with rats. He crawls inside.

EXT. WATERFRONT - SOME EVENINGS LATER

The same sewer-pipe. Now the bodies of dead rats lie

all around. A pair of fine leather boots splash through

the water - Lestat's.

INT. SEWER-PIPE - EVENING

Louis huddled there, so pale and shivering he seems

close to death. Lestat comes through.

He bends down to him, surprisingly gently and puts his

own coat around him.

They emerge from the sewer and walk along the

waterfront.

He puts his arm around Louis, to stop his shivering.

Louis is baffled. He follows.

INT. INN - SUPPER ROOM

Lestat enters.

Lestat holds up a candle and walks towards a large four-

poster bed. Claudia lies there, angelic, under the

coverlet, two marks on her neck.

Lestat shakes her gently.

Louis runs at him, but Lestat brushes him aside

effortlessly, so he falls to the floor. Lestat bites

his wrist and presses the bleeding wound to the child's

mouth... He winces in pain.

Claudia sucks on the wound, reviving, making little

noises like a person waking from sleep.

Louis rises to his feet as Claudia clutches Lestat's

arm, sucking the blood fiercely. Lestat moans.

He pulls her loose and she growls and stares at him

with big clear astonished eyes.

Lestat puts her down on the bed and sits beside her,

holding his wrist, obviously in pain.

Still suffering, Lestat pulls the bell-rope.

CLOSE ON CLAUDIA

Being transformed. Becoming white yet robust, bright-

eyed yet crazed. She shakes her beautiful curls and the

dust falls from them. They are shining in the

candlelight.

Louis cannot stop looking at her. He does not notices

as -

The MAID enters.

The maid comes near the bed, kneels in front of

Claudia. Lestat lays his hand on the maid's throat and

Claudia watches keenly.

Claudia lunges for the throbbing vein in the neck,

locking on to the flowing blood.

The Maid is transfixed.

Close on Louis, his anguish, his fascinated horror.

He lets the dead maid onto the floor. Claudia looks at

the corpse.

Lestat and Claudia sit on the Louis XVI settee. Claudia

is a vision, a doll made out of pearl. Animated, voice

crisp.

The words echo in Louis' head, as he puts his hands to

his ears.

Lestat takes out his comb and begins to comb her hair.

Claudia runs over to him. She smiles at him.

Louis is conflicted. He cannot leave her. He touches

her cheeks, her hair. Same as his. Vampire skin and

hair. He draws in his breath, shocked by her beauty,

then he embraces her as a father might a daughter. He

looks over her shoulder to Lestat.

Lestat smiles

INT. ROOM - SAN FRANCISCO

Malloy is open mouthed.

He sees the tape has run out. He rapidly and clumsily

sticks in another.

EXT. NEW SPANISH TOWNHOUSE - (RUE ROYALE, NEW ORLEANS)

Two husky movers bring in furniture through the back

courtyard, past the fountain and the banana trees, up

the back stairs and into -

INT. FLAT

Striped wallpaper gives way to flowers in the bedrooms.

Huge four-poster beds in the bedrooms, and large

chests, as big as coffins standing against the wall.

Everywhere there are candles and pretty Louis XVI

furniture. Lestat gives instructions to the movers.

WE MOVE INTO A DIMLY LIT PARLOUR

We see Claudia draped in lace standing on a petit point

chair as a DRESSMAKER measure out a garment.

Louis can be seen, in an inner room.

She has pricked her hand. A spot of blood appears on

her finger Claudia takes her hand.

Claudia brings the hand to her lips. The dressmaker

abruptly pulls her finger away, in pain again.

CLOSEUP - her finger, two holes showing.

Lestat walks through - sees the dressmaker lying dead

at Claudia's feet, Claudia still on the chair in the

half-finished dress.

INT. LOUIS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Claudia and Louis, sleeping in a coffin together,

Claudia's fingers curling his hair.

INT. CLAUDIA'S BEDROOM

Claudia playing with dolls, each as perfect and

beautifully dressed as she is.

INT. PARLOUR - NIGHT

Claudia tinkling with her child's hands on the piano,

picking out a hesitant tune.

EXT. SQUARE - NIGHT

The tinkling of Claudia's piano is heard, over -

A well-dressed lady, walking through a square lit by

gaslight. The lady hears a child's sobbing and stops,

turns.

POV

Claudia, the picture of lost innocence, sitting on a

bench and crying.

The woman, all solicitude, goes to Claudia.

The woman takes Claudia in her arms. Claudia nestles

her head in her shoulder, her teeth near her neck.

INT. PARLOUR - NIGHT

A stern, stiff PIANO-TEACHER (male) beating time with a

ruler as Claudia picks out scales on the piano. He raps

her on the knuckles.

Claudia glares at him, then returns to playing,

improving rapidly.

INT. DOLL-SHOP - NIGHT

Piano music over. Mozart, now well played.

Claudia staring at a glass case, inside of which are an

array of eighteenth century dolls. An old DOLLMAKER

looks down on her.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Claudia walking along, clutching the doll.

INT. DOLL-SHOP - NIGHT

The dollmaker lying dead, two puncture marks in his

throat, his dolls scattered all around him.

EXT. UNDERTAKER'S - NIGHT

Claudia and Louis looking through the window at a

display of coffins. Claudia point at the smallest one.

INT. CLAUDIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The child's coffin on the floor. The lid lifts. Claudia

emerges, yawning, wanders through the flat into -

LOUIS' BEDROOM

Where his coffin sits. She slides the lid off, and

curls in beside him.

INT. PARLOUR - NIGHT

Claudia playing the piano, now with remarkable

dexterity. The piano-teacher sits mute beside her. As

she plays, he topples over and falls to the ground. We

see the puncture-marks in his neck. Lestat, hearing the

noise, comes in.

Claudia smiles to herself, keeps playing.

INT. CLAUDIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

CANARIES sing in a cage, above a child's coffin.

Claudia is writing at a secretaire. She is writing in a

diary with a quill pen in an adult hand. She murmurs

the date as she writes.

She looks up and sees Louis in the doorway, watching

her.

She closes the diary.

She opens it. Inside there is a beautiful pen and ink

portrait of Louis.

She begins to fill in the sketch.

EXT. RUE ROYALE - NIGHT (1800'S)

Street lamps are oil at this period. Houses are now

tall two-story Spanish style. Streets are flagstone.

Passing carriages are black.

Claudia, Louis and Lestat, dressed in the same clothes

walking through a raucous carnival with sideshows.

Crowd milling around, sailors, whores, children,

thieves, freed slaves, Indians. They pass a Wild West

display, jugglers, fire-eaters, three-card

tricksters...

They come to a raised platform where a troupe of

perfectly-formed midgets do a burlesque show.

Claudia stops. She stares, at these small, perfect

creatures like herself, intrigued and troubled.

Louis and Lestat walk on, not noticing as -

CLAUDIA

Circles the troupe. She comes to a small tent, behind

it. At the entrance stands a midget youth.

Claudia walks up to him.

Claudia shakes her head. He kisses her. Claudia allow

her to be kissed, then bites his tongue. he youth

struggles, as Claudia holds him and drains him. She

lets him go as Louis appears behind her.

Louis hurriedly draws her away.

INT. FLAT - NIGHT

Claudia playing the piano, now like a demonic Liszt.

Louis writing.

Lestat appears in the doorway. He has a big box in his

arms.

FOCUS ON early 19th Century French dolls - wood, glass,

wax, bisque - all around the bedroom, on chairs, on the

bed. Some newish, some tattered old.

He hands her the box. It is a fine Parisian Jumeau

doll. She likes it and stokes its face.

He examines the other dolls.

Lestat doesn't answer. Claudia stands up quickly, and

strides out into the -

PARLOUR

Where Louis is reading by the window. She walks to a

mirrored cabinet, takes out a scissors and begins

cutting her hair.

She continues cutting. She sees Lestat emerge from her

bedroom in the mirror behind her then turns to him, an

angelic little boy's face now with soft curls around

her face.

She walks past him, back into her bedroom and slams the

door.

A beat. Louis looks from the mass of blonde hair on the

floor to Lestat. Then a HORRID SCREAM pierces the

silence. More screams, which become roars.

INT. CLAUDIA'S BEDROOM

She stands before the dressing-table, all her long hair

grown back over her shoulders. She holds it with both

hands, screaming and screaming. Lestat and Louis come

through the door.

She turns on Lestat.

She runs at him with the scissors, scoring his face.

The cut heals. She scores it again. It heals again. She

stares at him in horror.

He storms out. Louis goes to Claudia and picks her up

in his arms.

Louis carries her outside, onto the porch. There is an

old flower-seller going by.

She clutches Louis desperately.

Louis strokes her beautiful face, her hair.

EXT. NEW ORLEANS STREETS - NIGHT

Louis walking, holding Claudia as if he was about to

lose her.

Louis back in the same street, outside the same house.

He stands with Claudia at the window. There is a family

inside, a picture of domestic tranquility.

Claudia stares at him, suddenly very cold, very alert.

He can't go on. Claudia's eyes are remorseless.

Claudia speaks through indrawn breath.

She runs.

INT. ROOM SAN FRANCISCO

Malloy and Louis.

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

Louis, walking the streets, shivering.

A cathedral rising out of the mist, the doors open.

Louis walks towards the doors, inside.

INT. CATHEDRAL - NIGHT

Louis enters. The dim lights of candles. A sacristan

tending the altar, an old woman praying - otherwise

empty.

Louis walking down the nave of the church. He stops by

the alter.

Louis sits in a pew.

LOUIS' POV

The cross, the statues, the tabernacle.

Suddenly a hand is laid on his shoulder. Louis almost

jumps. He turns and sees the face of a grey-haired

priest.

Louis stares at him, tears in his eyes.

The priest gestures to the confessional. Louis rises,

slowly.

INT. CONFESSIONAL

Louis, kneeling in the darkness. The hatch slides back.

The hatch slams down. Louis rises, confused, and the

door is flung open, the priest stands there.

Louis rises. Walks out.

His face comes into the light. The priest steps back,

open-mouthed.

He bares his fangs. The priest runs, screaming. Gets to

the bellrope, begins to ring the bell. Louis swoops on

him.

Louis takes him, lifting him from the floor, till his

feet stop kicking.

INT. FLAT - NIGHT

Louis enters, silently, like a corpse. He hears a voice

behind him.

He turns, sees her sitting in the darkness. She is

wearing a tiny nightgown of stitched lace and pearls,

weirdly adult and seductive. She comes towards him.

She sprays perfume over her body as she comes nearer.

She whispers.

She kisses his cheek.

She takes his face in her hands.

Claudia smiles.

EXT. DOCKLANDS - NEW ORLEANS - NIGHT

A sailing ship, by the docks. Louis and Claudia talking

to a shipping-clerk.

INT. FLAT - NIGHT

Lestat playing the piano. Louis reading. Claudia

enters, wearing a cape and hat. She walks to the piano,

sits at the end of the piano and stares at him as he

plays.

Louis perks up, puzzled.

Claudia stares at him for a moment.

She takes his hand and leads him into an inner room.

Louis follows behind.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Two beautiful youths, lying asleep on a couch, by a

table full with a half-eaten meal. Lestat sighs.

Claudia stares at him, sitting. She nods.

Lestat bites into the neck of one of the youths, sucks

greedily and horribly. Claudia watches him without

expression. He finished one, is about to take the other

when he staggers. He looks at Claudia.

Lestat stares wildly at her, tries to move towards her,

then slips to the floor.

Lestat tries to rise.

Louis watches, appalled. He goes to move.

She pulls a knife out from under her shawl, walks

rapidly to him and slashes his throat. Blood explodes

from it.

Claudia lacerates his face. Blood pours from

everywhere. She plunges the knife in his chest. He

falls back, fangs bared, clutching the knife. Claudia

leaps on him then, bites deep into his neck as he dies.

Louis screams, runs forward, pulls her away.

He drags her off Lestat, tries to pull her out of the

room. She hisses at him.

Louis looks. The floor is a sea of blood. Lestat has

begun to shrivel, as if he'd been a bag of blood. His

skin is shriveling against his bones like parchment,

his eyes are slipping back into his skull-like face.

His lush, beautiful hair remains unchanged. But his

clothes are virtually being emptied of the body. It is

no more than bones, wrapped in paper and the pupils of

the eyes suddenly roll up into the papered skull.

She stares at the shriveled skeleton in its skin

wrapping. She is fascinated. She sees the vampiric

blood flow all over the floor. She touches it and

brings her finger to her lips.

Louis walks forward, touches the skeleton, the blonde

hair.

She stands up, all business suddenly.

She drags the coverlet from the table, knocking the

crockery over the dead youths, and wraps Lestat's

skeleton in it. She takes a bunch of chrysanthemums and

places them in his skeleton hands.

EXT. CARRIAGE - NIGHT

Louis whipping the horses. Claudia beside him. Lestat's

skeleton in the back, with the bodies of the two dead

youths.

The carriage pulls up by a swamp. Mist everywhere.

Overhanging creepers.

Louis drags out the bodies of the boys. He slides them

into the waters of the swamp. We see ripples in the

water and the churning of alligators, as they attack

the corpses. Louis takes Lestat's skeleton in his arms.

He slides it into the waters. The alligators speed

towards it.

He stands there, saying nothing.

Claudia is shocked to her core. She steps back. Louis

stares at the rippling waters. Gradually the movement

of alligators stops. Then he hears a sound he hasn't

heard in years. Soft, choking. He turns, sees Claudia

sitting by a cypress tree, like a little girl for the

first time in years. She is weeping copiously.

We see her face, tears of blood running down it. She is

heartbroken, lost.

Louis gathers her in his arms.

Louis walks her towards the carriage.

He lifts her into the carriage and drives off, leaving

the silent waters of the swamp.

INT. FLAT - NIGHT

Sturdy mulatto workmen lifting cases and trunks out of

the apartment. All the furniture is covered in white

sheets. Claudia dressed in a cap and hat, is playing

the piano by the light of one remaining oil-lamp.

Louis comes from her room with the cage of canaries.

He opens the cage, and the canaries fly around the

room.

There is a knocking on the door. Claudia falters.

He goes downstairs. Claudia plays a moment, then stops,

perturbed. She goes to the window. Then sees something

out there that makes her face go white. She screams.

THE STAIRWAY

Louis walking to the door. The knocking gets louder.

THE PARLOUR

Claudia runs for the stairs, after Louis.

THE HALLWAY

Louis reaches the door. The knocking gets louder. He

opens the door as -

CLAUDIA

Reaches the stairs. She screams -

But Louis has opened the door. Nothing there. He looks

back at Claudia, puzzled, then at the door again when,

swooping into his vision comes the nightmare image of -

LESTAT

In filthy swamp-soaked rags, robust again, but his

flesh shriveled, covered in scars, his eyes riddled,

bloodshot. he roars.

Louis throws his body against the door, slamming it on

Lestat's reaching hand. The hand withdraws, as Lestat

roars. Louis bolts the door.

Louis runs up the stairs, sweeps Claudia in his arms,

watching appalled as the door shudders with the force

of Lestat's body.

IN THE PARLOUR

Louis runs through with Claudia in his arms.

Suddenly Lestat crashes through the casement window,

scattering blood everywhere, reefing himself on the

shattered glass. He tumbles to the floor and gets

unsteadily to his feet.

Louis throws Claudia behind him and hurls himself on

Lestat, who fights like a ravening animal, bits of his

broken body coming off in the process. Then with a

terrifying effort, Lestat hurls Louis off, goes for

Claudia, who grabs the poker from the fireplace,

scatters burning coals over him. He falls back, then

comes at her again, as the drapes catch fire. Louis

grabs the lamp.

Lestat lunges again at Claudia.

Louis hurls the lamp, which explodes him in flame.

Lestat screams in agony, whirls around the room, then

comes on Claudia again. She hurls another lamp.

Louis throws the flaming sheets around him, wrapping

him further in fire. Lestat falls to his knees,

choking, hands up over his face in the smoke. The whole

parlor is afire. Louis gathers up Claudia, smothering

the burning house, carries her down the back stairs,

through the carriage way and through the gathering

crowds of mortals into the street.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Louis running, with Claudia in his arms. He looks back

at the flames of the house. Sound of a ship's horn.

EXT. DECK OF SHIP - NEAR DAWN

Louis stands at the railings in the morning mist as the

ship moves down the river. He sees...

CITY OF NEW ORLEANS

With flame lighting up the sky.

INT. ROOM. SAN FRANCISCO

Louis and Malloy.

EXT. SHIP - EVENING

The ship, shrouded in mist.

A body is slipped into the sea. A priest reads last

rites to a mourning family.

INT. SHIPS HOLD

Trunks and cases, creaking with the ship's movement.

Dead rats everywhere.

EXT. SHIP - NIGHT

Passing through the Straits of Gibralter.

EXT. DECK - NIGHT

Claudia, sitting with an easel and sketch-pad,

sketching the bay of Naples. A beautifully realized

drawing, all in shades of grey and black. Louis

observes.

The sketch changes to a sketch of -

THE ACROPOLIS

In the moonlight.

The sketch changes to a sketch of -

TRANSYLVANIA

And the traditional shapes of the vampire landscape.

MONTAGE OF SKETCHES

A TRANSLYVANIAN VILLAGE, A GRAVEYARD.

RUINED CASTLE AFTER CASTLE, LOOKING INTO THE SKIES...

INT. ROOM. SAN FRANCISCO

Malloy and Louis.

EXT. BOULEVARD FACADE OF GRAND HOTEL AND PARIS OPERA

Crowds and gaslight everywhere. Carriages, horses,

OPERA coming from the opera house.

EXT. 18TH CENTURE PALACES ALONG THE SEINE - NIGHT

The high walls of the Louvre, dark figures walking in

pairs through the shadowy tulieries.

EXT. STREET - SHOP WINDOW

Claudia, in furtrimmed muff and bonnet, peers through

the glass at a display of dolls. Each doll in there

seems to resemble her, with blonde hair and blue eyes.

She peers deep into the shop and sees -

MADELEINE, a young woman bent over a workbench painting

a doll's face, oblivious to being watched.

INT. OPERA STAIRCASE

Louis and Claudia hurrying hand in hand with a crowd of

mortals towards the sound of an ORCHESTRA TURNING

beyond.

INT. NOTRE DAME

Claudia and Louis standing in the deep shadows, looking

at the branching arches. Louis is overcome with

sadness, Claudia is fascinated.

INT. GALLERY

Louis and Claudia walk among a series of mythological

nudes by Poussin.

INT. SALON - NIGHT

Claudia, surrounded by discarded dresses and outfits,

being attended by couturiers. All the clothes are tiny,

to fit her frame, but have an adult cut and shape.

INT. SUMPRUOUS HOTEL SUITE

Full of late 19th century furniture, lots of Empire

style, Regency, gilt, velvet and brocade.

CLOSE ON A HUGE BLACK EBONY CHEST

Against a wall, solemn among all the light and glitter.

CLAUDIA

By a large gilt mirror, in her new clothes. She is

covered with jewelry, fixing earrings to her ears.

Louis walks over, helps her with the earrings.

Claudia laughs.

He turns away.

She twirls, looking at herself in the mirror, then

stops, stares at herself.

Louis is stunned. He blushes.

She stares at him through the mirror.

EXT. BOULEVARD - EVENING

Louis and Claudia walk along a boulevard like father

and daughter. All around them are bourgeois Parisian

families on their evening stroll. Claudia points at the

children that pass.

She points to a beautiful French child walking by with

her mother.

EXT. DOLL-SHOP - NIGHT

We see Madeleine, inside, painting a doll's face. Louis

and Claudia arrive outside.

POV

Claudia's face, with the dolls in the background. The

resemblance is uncanny.

Madeleine sees Claudia from inside. She waves.

He takes her arm. But Claudia shakes him off, and moves

into the shop.

EXT. LATIN QUARTER - NIGHT

Louis walks briskly, head bowed.

CLOSEUP - LOUIS' FEET

Walking. A step echoes his.

Louis stops. Turns, sees nothing. Then walks again. The

echoing steps begin again.

Louis again. Sees a shadow, flitting.

Nothing. He walks again, hears the same effect. Then he

stops. He stares at a gaslamp opposite.

Santiago, a tall vampire, materializes under the

gaslight. And Louis gradually realizes that this

vampire has assumed the same attitude, posture, clothes

and hair-style as Louis.

Louis gives an involuntary shake of the head. Santiago

mimics. Louis takes a step forwards. Santiago mimics.

Louis folds his arms. Santiago mimics.

Louis calculates.

Santiago echoes the first word, but not the second.

Louis has broken his composure. He turns his back on

Santiago, only to come face to face with Santiago right

in front of him.

Again Louis turns this back to find Santiago facing

him.

Louis turns, glowers, refusing to look at him.

Slowly he looks up. Santiago draws close, breaking the

mirror trick and suddenly slams Louis back against the

wall.

Louis is furious. He regains his balance, strikes out

at Santiago and when Santiago vanishes, to reappear

behind him, Louis slams back his elbow into his

midriff. Santiago staggers, amazed and then rushes at

Louis, throwing him down.

Louis rolls back to his feet, then to his amazement

sees two vampires, on in front, on behind. He looks

both ways, then sees one has vanished. He stares,

awestruck, at this new one:

He reaches into his waistcoat, takes an engraved

invitation out of his pocket and thrusts it at Louis.

Louis reads it aloud, as we see:

"THEATRE DES VAMPIRES

By Special Invitation

Friday, 9 p.m."

Armand bows and vanishes.

Louis listens to the silence.

EXT BOULEVARD DES CAPUCHINES - THEATRE DES VAMPIRES -

NIGHT

Louis formally dressed with Claudia in rich attire on

his arm. They pass people buying tickets for the

theatre and go inside.

They draw close to:

HUGE POSTERS

Reading -

"THEATRE DES VAMPIRES PRESENTS

THE MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH

By Edgar Allen Poe"

The posters are illustrated with cliched images of

vampires overcoming damsels in distress.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Warily, they show their invitations to the mortal

ticket taker at the door. He glances away

indifferently.

INT. THEATRE BOX - NIGHT

Claudia and Louis look at the crowd as the lights go

down.

Stage: curtain rises.

An elaborate painted set of an Italianate castle. Death

standing before it, the traditional image of the Grim

Reaper, complete with magnificent scythe.

A version of the Poe story unfolds before them. All of

the participants are vampires. All beautiful gleaming

white, aged 20 or 30.

A spotlight uncovers a mortal woman suddenly forced out

upon the stage.

The audience laughs uneasily, then stops as the Mortal

Woman comes into the footlights. She is too beautiful,

too confused. Santiago, as Death, advances on her. She

backs away, terrified, then sees the other vampires, in

a phalanx, advancing from behind, in a half-circle.

She looks around in panic. Santiago swoons, arms over

his breast as if he is hopelessly in love.

The Mortal Woman steps to the footlights.

Louis whispers to Claudia.

ON THE STAGE

Santiago gestures to the audience.

AUDIENCE

Rapt faces.

ON THE STAGE

Santiago approaches her and tears the drawstring out of

her peasant blouse. It opens completely and starts to

slip. She tries to catch it, but gently stops her

wrists. The blouse falls, exposing her young breasts.

LOUIS AND CLAUDIA

ON THE STAGE

She shakes her head, confused. he catches her wrists

behind her back.

AUDIENCE

Is awestruck by her beauty, her suffering.

SANTIAGO

Draws near her cheek.

AUDIENCE

A young girl cries out in jest.

Audience roars with laughter.

ON THE STAGE

The audience laughs again.

The Mortal Woman shakes her head in panic.

CLOSE ON CLAUDIA

Even she is repelled by the cruelty. She shakes her

head.

MORTAL WOMAN

Shakes her head. She is helpless.

Mortal Woman looks up on the verge of hysteria or

fainting. But then her eyes mist over. She is being

entranced.

FROM HER POV

We realize she is looking past Santiago at the divinely

beautiful Armand, who has just stepped out of the

wings. Armand has entranced her. He passes Santiago.

Santiago stiffens, but yields the stage.

Armand takes her by the naked shoulders.

ON THE STAGE

Armand gestures to the others who slowly, gracefully

close in.

He pulls the drawstring from her skirt and it falls

revealing her nakedness. But she is spellbound.

Armand embraces her, drinks, her naked body stark

against her black clothes, then he passes her to the

other vampires one by one.

CLOSE ON LOUIS

Who battles desire and hunger with anger.

ON THE STAGE

The naked Mortal Woman lies dead on the floor. The

vampires seem to vanish one by one. As the curtain

draws across, the Audience loudly applauds what they

presume are theatrical tricks.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The audience, milling towards the exits. They talk in

vacuous terms about the beauty of the show, the

symbolism of it, the daring of it as they leave.

Gradually Louis and Claudia are left alone in the empty

theatre. Louis seems anxious to leave. Claudia whispers

in his ear.

He looks around the empty theatre, more eerie now than

when the play was on. The red curtain shifts slightly

in a hidden breeze, a candle sputters and dies in a

box. Then the candle flares again, and we see Armand in

the box, looking down on them. He stares with a dreamy

expression, saying nothing.

His voice echoes eerily. Armand gestures for them to

follow him.

INT. FOOT OF STAIRWAY

Armand leading, Louis and Claudia following. It opens

into a -

HUGE UNDERGROUND BALLROOM

Walls are painted with famous copies of Durer,

Brueghel, Goya and Bosch depictions of death. Fine

wooden coffins line the walls. Candles burn in sconces,

casting alternate shadows and pools of light. Armand

walks through, gesturing Louis and Claudia to follow

him.

As they walk through, vampire man and women appear out

of the shadows like wraiths, startling them, drifting

around them, stroking them, touching Claudia as if she

were a doll. Shrieks of preternatural laughter.

Armand gestures to the vampires to back off.

All obey but ESTELLE.

She menaces Claudia, her breasts enormous, her fangs

bared. Armand throw her a look, and she is flung

against the wall.

Louis stares around. The vampires faces drift towards

him and away, always disclosing the face of Armand, who

seems some distance away, but strangely close, staring

at Louis with a constantly calm, hypnotic gaze. Then a

young mortal boy comes from the shadows with a

candelabra, which he hands to Armand.

Armand and the boy come towards them, leading them

along the walls, his candelabra illuminating the

ghastly murals, his face gleaming like an angel above

the candleflame.

The boy is watching Louis. Armand's hand beckons and

the boy draws up to Louis in the candlelight. He places

his arms on Louis' shoulders. Louis glances at Armand,

who smiles. Louis sees the puncture marks on the boy's

neck.

Louis is utterly confused. Can't resist. Drinks his

blood.

The boy's body presses against him, sensual, willing.

The other vampires appear all around Louis, who

suddenly senses it and draws away, ashamed.

Claudia watches warily, from a distance. Armand beckons

at her and Louis and open a door in the wall which

reveals a stone staircase.

INT. MEDIEVAL ROOM

Medieval chairs, table, an old coffin, a bed in one

corner, a blazing fire. A medieval painting of Satan,

being banished from heaven, above the fire. Armand

places the boy on the bed, settling him so he sleeps.

He glances at Louis, then at Claudia, who averts her

eyes.

Claudia stares at him constantly, guarded.

Louis looks at the picture. Armand watches him.

He smiles at Louis. A smile of infinite compassion.

He passes his finger through the candle flame.

He stares at them, his face angelic, hypnotic, young.

His eyes hold them both in a trance.

He stares from Claudia to Louis. He seems to be reading

their souls.

Claudia appears suddenly to Louis' shoulder,

interrupting.

She stares hard at Armand. Armand looks from her to

Louis.

He seems genuinely regretful. But Claudia pulls Louis

out.

INT. DARKENED CORRIDORS AND THEATRE - NIGHT

Louis and Claudia feel their way through darkened

corridors, trying to find their way out.

Suddenly a light comes on. They see they are in the

empty theatre. Santiago stands on the stage, under a

candle.

Louis is stunned.

Other vampires appear behind him.

He looks at Claudia.

Claudia laughs.

EXT. HOTEL SAINT GABRIEL - NIGHT

Claudia and Louis enter the Lobby.

They come to their room, enter.

INT. HOTEL ROOMS - NIGHT

Louis closes the door behind him. Claudia paces.

She smiles at him. A strange, sad, adult smile.

She touches his face.

There are tears in her eyes. Louis lifts her up in his

arms.

EXT. DOLL-SHIP - NIGHT

Claudia, staring at the dolls. We see Madeleine inside,

painting a doll. She sees Claudia and smiles and waves.

INT. THEATRE - NIGHT

Louis, sitting alone in the box, as the curtains draw

back, to show Santiago as death, as before. Louis takes

advantage of the darkness to slip away.

INT. ARMAND'S ROOM - NIGHT

Armand opens the door to Louis' knock.

He follows Armand into the room.

Armand smiles.

Armand suddenly grips Louis close to him.

Louis laughs bitterly.

Armand smiles.

Louis is stunned.

Louis is speechless.

Armand stands. He takes Louis by the arm, leads him

towards the back wall.

He opens a hidden door in the wall.

EXT. THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - NIGHT

Louis, in the street outside, as the door closes behind

him.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

Louis enters. There is unfamiliar scent in the air, a

doll sitting by the mirror. Louis looks in the mirror

and sees...

MADELEINE

The doll-maker, resplendent in green taffeta, sitting

like a Madonna with Claudia on her lap. Claudia's arms

are wound round her neck. The contrast between mortal

woman and immortal child is plain.

Madeleine rises and comes towards Louis. She draws back

the lace fringes round her throat, so he can see the

two marks there. She says softly, dreamily.

Louis turns away. Claudia speaks, icy, from the bed.

Louis turns to Madeleine.

Louis pushes her away. Claudia screams.

Louis grips Madeleine and shakes her.

She points to Madeleine

She begins to weep, sobbing like a child.

Louis looks at Madeleine

She wraps her arms around Claudia.

Her finger clutches a locket around her neck, Louis

touches it, opens it.

THE LOCKET

A picture of a young girl, Claudia's age, wistful,

beautiful.

Louis takes her chin in his hand, gently.

Louis pulls her to him and starts to drink her blood.

EXT. HOTEL BALCONY - LATER

Louis on the balcony, weakened terribly. A breeze blows

on the gauze curtains behind him, through which we

see...

SILHOUETTES of Madeleine and Claudia. Madeleine her

arms outstretched, now a vampire, a long moan of pain

coming from her. Claudia comes through the curtains,

alarmed.

Louis speaks without turning.

He turns to look at Claudia.

She takes his hand.

He bends down and kisses her. He looks up, at the

wafting curtains. He sees -

MANY VAMPIRE SHADOWS

Silhouetted, coming closer.

CLAUDIA

Looks up and screams.

THE CURTAINS

Are ripped aside. The vampires of the Theatre surge

through.

The vampires close on them as Louis struggles,

Claudia's scream pierces the night air.

INT. CORRIDOR OF THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - NIGHT

In a press of vampires, Louis, Claudia and Madeleine

are forced down the dark corridor. Into -

THE BALLROOM

Vampire chaos, as they are dragged through. Louis

struggling like a demon.

Santiago strikes Louis to the ground. As he struggles

to his feet, he sees the vampires part around a figure

coming through. He gasps at the sight of -

LESTAT

Dressed beautifully, but horribly scarred now, from the

fire as well as the earlier stabbing. Lestat is

confused, ancient, teetering, reaching for Santiago's

shoulder to steady himself.

Lestat shakes his head.

Lestat reaches out to Louis.

The sound of something being dragged through the crowd.

Horrible echoing, scraping -

Lestat grips Santiago.

He stares around him, confused. The scraping gets

louder.

Santiago grabs Louis by the neck.

We see now what caused the scraping. A huge metal

coffin being dragged through the vampires. Claudia

screams.

The vampires grab Louis. They force him towards the

coffin. Lestat struggles with them.

Louis struggles fiercely as he is forced into the

coffin. Claudia weeps.

Louis, struggling in the coffin. Then the lid is forced

down, huge locks closed over it.

INT. COFFIN

Louis, in the smallest imaginable space. Beating his

forehead against the metal.

EXT. COFFIN

Claudia, throwing herself on the coffin, crying. She is

dragged away. Vampire hands drag the coffin across the

stone floor.

INT. COFFIN

Louis, forehead pouring with blood, being thrown this

way and that. The coffin is lifted, upside down, Louis'

head crashes off the floor.

EXT. COFFIN

Is thrust into a niche in the wall. Bricks being placed

over, mortar trowelled on.

INT. COFFIN

Louis upside down. Sounds of bricks and mortar. Then

terrifying, unearthly scream pierces the coffin,

striking to his very soul.

He loses consciousness.

BLACKNESS

INT. COFFIN

Louis sleeps, upside down. Sound of bricks being

broken, thrown aside. Then of locks breaking.

Louis opens his eyes. The lid opens. He sees -

Louis gets out, into a vast long catacomb. Louis runs

to the end of it, steps through a broken brick wall.

He points to his cell at the end of the passage, the

foot of the steps. Sound of rain beyond the door.

Louis runs up the stone stairs. It leads to the

ballroom. He enters.

Estelle stands far off, looking at him coolly. She

lifts the stage skull mask and laughs softly behind it.

A male vampire slumps in a chair staring softly at

Louis.

Silence. Indifference.

Louis sees Lestat sitting in a far corner. he rushes up

to Lestat, who looks up at him, confused. He's holding

something crumpled, made of cloth.

Louis turns round and round in rage. Passive still

faces. A door bangs open and shut.

Louis looks again at Lestat. He snatches the cloth from

Lestat's hand. We see it is a small torn bloodstained

dress. Claudia's dress.

The door bangs again. Estelle laughs. Rain gusts into

the ballroom.

Louis goes to the door, holding the dress. Armand

approaches, trying to pull him away, but Louis shrugs

him off. He draws nearer and nearer and stairs at -

INT. BRICK AIRWELL

On the stones lie Claudia and Madeleine, burn to ashes,

in each other's arms, like the corpses of his wife and

daughter in the New Orleans graveyard, embracing each

other.

Only Claudia's blond hair and Madeleine's red hair

remain unburnt.

Louis looks up at the walls of this airwell, many

stories to the sky. He cries out in agony.

Santiago appears behind him, staring. Louis roars in

horror and attacks Santiago, scattering the ashes into

the rainy wind. Claudia's golden locks fly up into the

wind, they whirl around the warring figure.

Armand appears, drags Louis free, pulls him screaming

from the airwell, into the ballroom, towards the exit.

Claudia's hair is sucked up by the wind through the

airwell, towards the night sky.

EXT. NOTRE DAME DOOR - NIGHT

Louis is slumped against the stone wall. Armand stands

beside him like a guardian angel.

Louis climbs to his feet.

EXT. THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - DAWN

Wet and deserted, the streets around the theatre are

quiet.

CLOSEUP - CLOCK

Chiming five a.m.

CLOSE ON LOUIS

Looking at the paling sky. He is in an alleyway,

outside of Armand's cell. He has a huge keg with him.

he finds the door unlocked. He enters.

INT. CELL

Empty. The hearth is cold. The old coffin is gone.

Louis silently closes the door to the passage and

blocks it with an immense bar. He goes in the other

door.

INT. THEATRE

Louis hurls kerosene all over the stage, the curtain,

the sets, the seats below. He grabs the scythe from the

playlet. He walks out. Dribbling a trail of kerosene

behind him.

INT. STAIRS

Louis walking rapidly down, leaving the trail of

kerosene. He creeps quietly into the -

BALLROOM

Leaking kerosene from the cask. He splashes over the

coffins that gleam in the dimness.

Then he strikes a match and heaves it into the

kerosene. Everything bursts into flame. The trail of

kerosene roars into fire through the ballroom over the

coffins and up the stairs. We hear EXPLOSIONS of fire

from above.

LOUIS

Shudders all over, fighting the morning weakness. He

readies the scythe, like the grim reaper.

ESTELLE

Rises from her burning coffin, screams and tries to run

through the fire but Louis slashes her down with the

scythe and she goes down screaming, her dress in

flames.

Others rise, choking in the smoke. Screams from

everywhere. They are burning.

Louis backs up the stairs to the -

DUNGEON

He can see there a thin pale light under Armand's

bolted door. Suddenly -

SANTIAGO

Comes at him from behind. Louis turns. Santiago rushes

him in a blur. Louis swings the scythe, too fast to see

what he himself is doing. Santiago's head streaming

blood flies through the air.

The body drops, flapping its arms.

SCREAMS come from everywhere.

Another vampire rushes burning towards Louis. He

decapitates him in turn. Then he staggers into Armand's

cell, and bars the door the connects it to the ballroom

behind him. He staggers to the outer door. There is a

thin strip of daylight, beneath the door, blinding him.

He throws it open, and staggers into the daylight.

EXT. THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - DAWN

Louis staggers out of the burning theatre, into the

thin daylight. Great gusts of smoke cover the street.

He staggers through the daylight, weakening, about to

fall, when through the clouds of smoke comes -

A MAGNIFICENT HEARSE

As in a dream, driven by Armand's human boy. The door

of the hearse opens. Through the curtains enclosing the

interior, we see Armand. He reaches a hand out to Louis

and pulls him inside.

The hearse vanishes through the smoke, leaving the

spectacle of the burning theatre.

EXT. THEATRE DES VAMPIRES - TWILIGHT

The gutted Theatre and ballroom, the roof collapsed,

exposed to the evening sky. The life of Paris goes on

around it, oblivious.

INT. LOUVRE - NIGHTS LATER

It is already a museum by this time and Louis and

Armand, fancily dressed and composed, walk through it.

They stop by a Gericault - The Wreck of the Medusa.

He looks at Louis affectionately.

Armand and Louis walk slowly through the Louvre

together. Camera follows them for a while, then comes

to rest on a sunrise by Turner.

INT. MOVIE THEATRE - NIGHT

A deco cinema of the twenties. Louis and Armand,

dressed in the style of the period walk down the aisle

through the crowded seats.

On the screen, Murnau's "Sunrise", in black and white.

We see a montage of sunrises, from a whole range of

movies, in black and white.

The SUNRISES continue, in color now, and the

backgrounds in them change to the fifties.

The lights come up in a different theatre. Louis

sitting there, alone, in a half empty theatre, dressed

in the clothes of the fifties. He rises, exits with the

others.

EXT. NEW ORLEANS STREET - NIGHT

Cars rushing by, twentieth-century madness. Louis

emerges from the theatre, walks through the streets.

EXT. GARDEN DISTRICT - NIGHT

Louis walks past the many Greek Revival Mansions.

CAMERA PANS OVER white-walled Lafayette cemetery and

its surrounding mansions.

Louis sees rats darting across the street. They rush

into a great overgrown garden surrounding a ruined

mansion. No lights.

Louis stops at a rusted gate. He forces it open and

enters -

A VERITABLE JUNGLE

Of overgrown rose and oak tree and wisteria. he sees a

faint glimmer of light coming from a distant glass

window of a huge Greek Revival house. He approaches

then he sees -

OLD SHRIVELLED CORPSE

Of a man, long dead and dried up, snagged in the thorny

rosevines.

LOUIS

Looks around. Walks on. Sees another corpse, almost

nothing but bones, sinking into the wet earth, the

roots of an oak overgrowing it.

He looks up at the distant light.

He passes a third corpse, caught in wisteria and rose

vine, only bones and clothes.

Louis sees dead rats lying near the steps.

Louis treads carefully on the rotted steps. he moves

along the porch. More dead rats. He sees through the

floor-length window into rooms lined with stacked

books. Virtually walled with them. Water seeps down

from the ceiling, gleaming as it streaks over the

books. The floors of the splendid rooms are bare,

except for a rotten French chair by a dead fireplace. A

single mirror reflecting the moon.

Dead rats.

He moves along the porch to the parlor windows. The

candle flickers inside. He sees -

HIS POV

Lestat lying on the floor. He is gaunt to near

starvation. All his scars are gone, but he is almost a

skeleton and his eyes are enormous in their sockets.

His clothes are rags. Blond hair beautiful, as always.

MALLOY'S ENTRANCES FACE SUPERIMPOSED OVER

BACK TO LESTAT

One tiny candle stands beside him. He reads an early

comic, from the turn of the century. Without turning

his head, he speaks.

He turns and looks at Louis. Old, fearful, broken.

Louis shakes his head. A series of police sirens go by,

piercing the night sky. A helicopter goes overhead. Red

flashes illuminate his face. Lestat shivers, covers his

ears. He's terrified. Louis touches him, calming him,

until the lights pass over.

Louis shivers. He releases him.

Lestat shivers.

Louis walks slowly away from him. Lestat turns back to

his candle, his magazine.

A bluebottle buzzes by him. His hand shoots out and

grabs it, squeezes the blood.

ON LOUIS

As he walks through the decayed house. His eyes are

expressionless.

INT. ROOM. SAN FRANCISCO - NIGHT (PRESENT)

Malloy, staring at Louis.

Louis looks at the cassettes on the table.

Malloy rises.

Louis is slowly horrified, then outraged and angry.

He stares at Louis.

Louis turns away.

He looks at the boy. Then suddenly grabs him, lifts him

off the floor, bares his terrifying fangs and brings

them to his throat. Malloy screams, in involuntary

terror.

Malloy, now terrified, whispers

Louis drops him.

Malloy, falls on the floor, terrified. When he looks

up, Louis has vanished.

He looks up at the tape. It is still turning.

He shakes his head. He gets up, and with shaking

fingers gathers his tapes. He runs out of the room.

EXT. STREET OUTSIDE - NIGHT

Malloy running for his car, a convertible. He leaps in

and screeches off through the night.

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

Malloy whips the car through the tiny streets, in

sheer, unfocused terror.

EXT. GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - NIGHT

Malloy driving with streams of traffic over the bridge.

He breathes deeply, to calm himself. He takes a tape

from his pocket, and with still shaking hands, sticks

it in the deck.

Suddenly a bony hand shoots out from the back seat,

pulls his neck backwards -

LESTAT

Sinks his teeth in his neck.

MALLOY'S HANDS

On the wheel, shaking, shuddering, losing their grip.

MALLOY'S EYES

Bulging, as the life drains out of him. Lestat sucking

him like a rat.

THE WHEEL

Swinging free of Malloy's dying hands.

THE CAR

Veers wildly into oncoming traffic.

LESTAT

Drinks regardless.

A TRUCK

Coming towards them, about to crush the car.

LESTAT'S BONY HAND

Grabs the wheel, jerks it as he drinks.

THE CAR

Misses the truck by inches.

LESTAT

Throws Malloy to one side, climbs into the front seat.

The tape is playing.

ON LESTAT

At the wheel, the corpse of Malloy in the passenger

seat. He smiles. We can see the blood renewing him.

EXT. GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - NIGHT

Lestat drives on, the car a tiny speck against the

bridge, the sea, the sky beyond, with the first fingers

of light spreading through it.

THE END

