EXT. A MIDSUMMER DAWN. THORNFIELD - THE GROUNDS.

First light. Jane Eyre is running across a meadow, flushed

and breathless; the hem of her plain, black dress soaked

with dew. She carries a shawl and has a small bag of

belongings over her shoulder.

She trips, falls to her knees; looks back. Expressive eyes,

open features. She is desperate. We see the house she is

running from; a Jacobean battlemented mansion.

Her need to escape is so great that she crawls forward

until she is able to raise herself to her feet. She runs.

She reaches an antique stile by a brook. She lifts herself

on to it. She lands on the road. And runs.

I/E. DAY. A ROADSIDE/COACH.

The sun is higher in the sky. Jane exhausted, now running

down a main road. Her spirts lift at the sight of an

approaching coach. She flags it down.

Jane empties her purse into the driver's hand. He looks at

her money then suspiciously back at her. A terse nod

indicates she can get in.

Jane sinks into a dark corner. Her fellow passengers look

shocked by her dishevelled appearance at such an early

hour. She undertakes a tremendous effort not to betray her

emotional state. She doesn't sob, she doesn't howl -

although her breathing threatens to. Slowly, unable to bear

the day, she closes her eyes.

EXT. EVENING. WHITCROSS.

Sunset. A whitewashed, stone pillar set up where four roads

meet on a barren moor. The coach driver opens the door.

With a curt nod he indicates that Jane must get out.

She looks around, dismayed. In each direction there is open

moorland for as far as the eye can see. The driver sets off

at a good pace - glad to be rid of such a passenger. Jane

puts her hand to her side for her bag of belongings. It is

not there.

She runs as fast as she can after the coach. It is receding

towards the horizon. She comes to a halt, objectless, lost,

alone. She pulls her knitted shawl around her.

She leaves the road and sets off across the moor, into the

gathering dark.

EXT. NIGHT. THE MOOR.

Jane is on her knees by a strange overhanging rock. The

night sky is awesome; the universe is all around her. She

is trying to calm herself with a prayer.

EXT. DAY. THE MOOR.

Jane lies on a great rock, soaking up the heat of the sun.

She is like someone numb with pain. She watches a lizard

crawl over the rock. She is mesmerised.

EXT. TWILIGHT. THE MOOR.

Jane squats in the heather and eats bilberries as the light

fades. She hungrily licks the juice from her hand.

EXT. DAWN. THE MOOR.

Jane is asleep in the heather, her shawl wrapped around

her. A red-haired child in a white nightgown lies by her

side, watching her. It is Helen Burns.

Helen reaches out. She touches Jane's hand. Jane wakes. She

sits up. She is alone.

EXT. DAY. BY A RIVER.

Jane is crouched on a rock watching the waters go by. The

sky is overcast. The first big drops of rain land on the

stones. Jane makes no movement.

A raven lands on a rock nearby. Jane is suddenly filled

with a wild rage. She picks up a stone and hurls it at the

bird with a raw cry. The gesture exhausts her. She watches

the bird wheel away, as the rain starts to pour.

EXT. TWILIGHT. A FARM BY A WOOD.

It is raining hard. Jane sees a small girl come out of the

farm with some leftovers. She drops them into a pigpen.

Jane leaning into the pigpen. She picks a stiffened mould

of porridge out of the mud. She lets the rain wash it. She

eats it ravenously.

EXT. NEXT DAY. A WOOD.

It has stopped raining. Jane is huddled under a tree. She

is shaking, shuddering. The life has gone out of her eyes.

EXT. DAY. THE EDGE OF THE WOOD.

The moors rise away above her to the horizon. Jane looks up

at the sun starting to set. The clouds are red and gold.

She sees a small red-haired girl in a white nightgown

walking barefoot on the moors ahead of her. The girl turns,

looks back at Jane. With her last strength, Jane follows.

EXT. EVENING. THE MOOR.

Dark clouds are banking up; the rain starts again. Jane is

struggling through a marsh. Her boots are stuck.

She falls. Her hand disappears into mud; her face pressed

against the earth. She doesn't move. She has reached the

point of despair.

The girl's bare feet walk close by, as if waiting for her.

Jane looks up. Where the child should be, she sees a light

shining across the moor. Jane starts crawling.

EXT. NIGHT. THE MOOR/MOOR HOUSE.

Jane is toiling on through the lashing rain towards the

light. It has become a window. A brief flash of lightning

shows her a low stone cottage. Helen Burns is sitting on

the gate.

Jane is crawling through the narrow garden. On her knees,

she peers through a window.

On either side of a bright little fire sit two young women.

They look exactly like Jane; slight, neat, dressed in

black. One, Diana, has her hair slightly curled and hides

her gentle eyes behind spectacles. The other, Mary, is very

young; no more than seventeen. Each has a book on her knee.

They are talking intimately.

They look so close, so loving and the room looks so cosy

that it pains Jane considerably.

Jane knocking at the door. Hannah, an old servant answers.

She is suspicious; Jane looks like a wretch.

Jane manages to find her voice.

The door slams shut. Jane lets out a hopeless wail.

She turns away, her hope gone. As she collapses, she finds

herself supported by a strong pair of black-clad arms.

Jane is lifted up. She finds herself looking into the face

of the handsomest man she has ever seen; St John Rivers. He

lifts her over the threshold into the warmth of Moor House.

INT. NIGHT. MOOR HOUSE - THE KITCHEN.

A fire is roaring in the stove. Hannah is bent over it.

Hannah falls silent as she sees Jane.

He sets Jane down before the hearth. She can barely stand.

She is soaked to the bone, filthy with mud. Her skin has a

ghastly pallor. Diana and Mary enter.

Jane can hold herself up no longer. Diana moves forward.

She and St John catch Jane and help her into a chair. The

rain hammers on the windows.

Jane tries to mouth her thanks. She sips the milk. Eats a

mouthful of bread. Diana kneels at her side.

Jane cannot speak. She's incapable of uttering her own

name. She hears John Reed's voice calling from far away.

The questions are deeply troubling to Jane. She is losing

consciousness.

She sees an image of a small girl of ten, running away

through a great darkening room. Jane tries to follow her.

The action draws her up out of the kitchen chair.

She hears John Reed's voice again.

Jane, panicked, looking for somewhere to hide, passes out.

INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - A GRAND RECEPTION ROOM.

Rain hammers against the windows. Jane aged ten, looking

hunted, runs in looking for somewhere to hide.

She springs behind a curtain. John Reed enters; a fourteen

year old, his stomach bursting out of his fancy clothes. He

is holding a riding crop as if it is a sword.

Jane watches him pass by her. He practises a perfect lunge.

He exits. Jane breathes a sigh of relief. She slowly pulls

the curtain across, making the window a private sanctuary.

There is a book lying on the seat. She opens it.

Jane is sitting cross-legged, completely absorbed in her

book - a beautifully drawn picture of a cormorant. She runs

her finger over it. We hear the sound of great waves

plunging on to a shore.

EXT. DAY. AN ARCTIC COAST.

Jane, aged ten, is sitting cross-legged on an isolated

rock, her eyes locked with those of a stooping black

cormorant. St John's voice comes from a long way away.

The cormorant raises its wings like a great black cloak.

Jane watches as it takes off and flies away.

INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE WINDOW SEAT.

Jane has her eyes closed. A great Atlantic wave hits the

sash window behind her, drenching it with foam and brine.

Suddenly the curtain is pulled back. John Reed stands in

front of her. Jane shrinks back.

John grabs the book.

Jane stares him out. John can sense her contempt. He belts

her with the book. Jane hits her head on the window clasp,

drawing blood. She is shocked.

Jane snaps. She throws herself upon him, the rage in her

released; pummelling, scratching, hurting him in any way

she can. She is barely coherent.

John is flabbergasted. Like all bullies, he is terrified.

Jane bites him. Hard. At that moment, Mrs Reed appears on

the scene. John screams. We see Mrs Reed's shocked face.

She is an overweight woman pushing forty in a bright,

elaborate dress.

INT. NIGHT. MOOR HOUSE - A BEDROOM

Dinah and Mary are gently taking Jane's soaking clothes

off; one at each side of her. Jane is distressed,

approaching a delirium. She resists them.

INT. DUSK. GATESHEAD - THE RED ROOM.

Jane is carried in and set down on a footstool by two

servants, Miss Abbot and Bessie - one at each side of her.

She is still resisting.

The fight goes out of Jane. She sits, defeated. Bessie,

young and plump, quickly wipes her bleeding forehead. She

has some compassion. Miss Abbot has none.

The door slams. They are gone. Jane slowly grips the edge

of the stool. The room is chill, silent. Red walls and

curtains, murky in the fading light.

In front of Jane, a stone fireplace gapes like a mouth.

Beside it, a full length looking-glass in which her pale

reflection stares out. Behind her, a bed supported on

pillars of mahogany, hung with red.

The piled up pillows and mattresses glare in cold white.

Jane's breathing is the only sound in the room.

A sudden gust sends rain pelting against the windows like

fingernails. A distant moan of wind seems to breathe out of

the black hearth. Jane reverts her nervous gaze to the

pitted mirror. Her eyes lock on the small figure trapped in

the mirror's visionary hollow; her white, bleeding face,

her eyes glittering with fear.

It is a phantom. The eyes are black, the skin a deathly

grey. Blood. Jane's breathing becomes choked with terror.

She can't get her breath. We hear blood rushing through her

ears. It sounds like the beating of great wings.

Slowly, a light appears over her. It may be something

shining in from outside. But to Jane it seems as if it is

surrounding her, enveloping her. The figure in the looking

glass opens its mouth. The scream, held in so long, finally

rips from Jane's throat.

INT. DUSK. GATESHEAD - THE FIRESIDE.

At the sound of the scream, Mrs Reed, slumbering, almost

jumps out of her skin.

INT. DUSK. GATESHEAD - THE KITCHEN.

Miss Abbott almost drops the tea tray she is carrying.

INT. DUSK. GATESHEAD - A CORRIDOR.

Jane is banging on the door, screaming, hysterical with

terror. Bessie rushes to the door and unlocks it. Jane

flies into her arms.

We see Bessie's own fear as she glances into the dark room.

Mrs Reed is storming towards them, furious.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 10.

Mrs Reed prises Jane away from Bessie as she speaks.

Mrs Reed throws her back into the room, slams the door and

turns the key. We hear Jane's unspeakable howls of terror,

her anguished bangs upon the door.

Bessie is looking at Mrs Reed aghast. Mrs Reed withers her

with a frozen glare.

INT. DUSK. GATESHEAD - THE RED ROOM.

We see Jane in her distress, hitting her head on the door.

She falls back. On the floor, her arms and legs move beyond

her control. She is having a fit. When it is over, we see

Jane unconscious. She is lying in a pool of ghostly light.

INT. DAY. MOOR HOUSE - A BEDROOM.

Through the light, Jane sees Mary and Diana Rivers at her

side.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 11.

St John approaches in his parson's collar, blocking out the

light as he looks down. Jane gazes at him remotely.

Diana smiles at Mary's tendency to over-dramatise.

Jane's eyes slide away from him and close.

INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE MORNING ROOM.

A bright morning. A huge clergyman dressed in black is

staring down at Jane, blocking out the sun. We see him from

her POV; his expansive chest, dramatic facial hair, huge

flared nostrils, frowning brows. He is Brockelhurst, the

epitome of grim.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 12.

Mrs Reed is by the fireside in an ultra-feminine dress. She

puts down her tea cup in irritation.

Jane silently revolts against this lie.

Jane's eyes flash with outrage.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 13.

A passion of resentment is forming in Jane.

Mrs Reed smiles sweetly.

INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE ENTRANCE HALL.

Jane is climbing the staircase. John Reed blocks her way.

Jane snaps. She cries out:

INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE MORNING ROOM.

Mrs Reed is at her desk. Jane appears in front of her.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 14.

Mrs Reed has turned quite pale. Jane blazes with victory.

EXT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE GATE HOUSE.

Bessie is waiting with Jane while her belongings are loaded

onto a public coach, its top laden with passengers.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 15.

Jane throws her arms around Bessie and embraces her with

great force. Bessie returns the embrace, surprised, moved.

Jane gets into the coach. Bessie looks up at the driver.

Jane's small, pale face peers out of the coach window,

watching Gateshead recede. She doesn't cry. But Bessie

can't stave off her tears.

INT. NIGHT. LOWOOD - THE HALL.

Jane, half asleep is carried out of a coach and into a

howling gale. She is taken under a stone inscription:

`Lowood Institution'. She is set down in front of a woman

with striking features and intelligent eyes; Miss Temple.

She bends down and looks into Jane's face.

She gently touches Jane's cheek with her finger. Jane

manages the ghost of a smile.

INT. DAY. MOOR HOUSE - A BEDROOM.

Jane is lying back against clean white pillows. Her hair

brushed and neatly plaited. Diana and Mary are full of

kindness but St John's face is cold, dispassionate.

Jane gives no answer.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 16.

There is an intake of breath from Mary.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 17.

St John has no patience with the change of subject.

Jane sinks back in the pillows.

Jane is deeply distressed.

The name sounds strange to Jane.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 18.

Jane shakes her head.

Diana and Mary glance at each other, fascinated.

INT. EVENING. MOOR HOUSE - THE BEDROOM

Jane is dressing herself. She stops, weakly holding the

back of a chair for support, looking out of the window at

the sun setting over the hills.

INT. EVENING. MOOR HOUSE - THE STAIRS

Diana is helping Jane down the stairs.

INT. EVENING. MOOR HOUSE - THE PARLOUR

St John is praying over Jane, Diana and Mary as they sit at

the table. Mary catches Jane's eye, gives her shy smile.

Jane finds herself staring at St John, who prays ardently.

St John opens his eyes and looks searchingly at Jane. She

immediately looks down.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 19.

Jane turns her attention to St John.

We see a bundle of sharp twigs come down on a girl's bare

neck, like a whip.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 20.

Jane flinches at the memory.

INT. DAY. LOWOOD - THE HALL.

Miss Scatcherd's bitter life is in her face and voice.

Jane, aged ten, looks up. She is wearing a brown stuff

frock with a puritanical cap like all the other girls.

Silence reigns in the school hall.

A red haired girl of about thirteen stands up; Helen Burns.

Miss Scatcherd holds up an apron in which a hole has been

mistakenly cut.

Helen Burns undoes the back of her dress. The punishment is

given; a dozen sharp, stinging whacks with the birch twigs.

Jane is appalled. But to her astonishment and awe, Helen

Burns doesn't cry; she barely changes her expression. As

the strokes go on - seven, eight, nine - Helen seems like

one in a trance. Jane is deeply affected.

On the eleventh stroke, the door bursts open and a visiting

party walks in: the Brocklehurst family. Miss Temple

escorts two young girls dressed in peacock finery and two

smart, bombastic ladies. Mr Brocklehurst follows. Helen's

punishment is forgotten as the students rush to their feet.

Jane, in a panic, drops her slate and breaks it.

Brocklehurst's eyes sweep the room. They land on her.

Filled with dread, Jane steps forward.

We see the look of frustration on Miss Temple's face.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 21.

He points to a tall stool. Jane stands on it.

INT. DAY. LOWOOD - THE HALL - LATER.

The hall is empty but for the small figure of Jane, high on

her stool, feeling her isolation like pain. Across the room

is the slightly bigger figure of Helen, hunched, the back

of her dress still open, the skin on her neck raw. The sun

is setting. At last Jane starts to sob.

Jane is deeply gratified.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 22.

Helen approaches Jane.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 23.

Helen smiles a wide smile.

They hear the door. Helen runs back to her place; cowers.

Miss Temple appears in a shaft of light at the door.

The girls approach, dreading more punishment.

Miss Temple looks over her shoulder.

She quickly presses a slice of hard cake into each girl's

hand and walks away. Jane and Helen look at one another,

deeply moved by her kindness.

EXT. DAY. MOOR HOUSE - THE GARDEN / MOORS.

Jane stands between Diana and Mary high above Moor House.

They are dressed similarly in bonnets and cloaks. They

watch a hawk dive, their heads moving in unison. Their eyes

land upon Moor House.

Down below them, St John leaves Moor House and walks

towards the village. Jane watches him.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 24.

Jane feels a powerful compassion for them.

She looks over at the horizon.

EXT. DAY. LOWOOD - THE GROUNDS. SPRING.

Jane is looking at the high wall which is the horizon of

her world at Lowood. Her eyes come to rest on the main

door. Two men are carrying a small coffin out of the

school. Brocklehurst follows it with a menthol-soaked cloth

over his mouth and nose. He becomes aware of Jane's eyes on

him. He looks away.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 25.

INT. NIGHT. LOWOOD - THE DORMITORY.

Jane is creeping down a corridor in her night dress. She

peers in through the dormitory door. It has been turned

into a sanitarium. Camphor and vinegar are being burnt.

Jane can hardly look at the sick girls.

Miss Temple, pale with exhaustion, is speaking intimately

to Madame Pierrot, the French mistress. Jane overhears.

Miss Temple can't say more.

Jane creeps on.

INT. NIGHT. LOWOOD - MISS TEMPLE'S ROOM.

Jane opens the door. A small bed has been set up at the

foot of Miss Temple's. In it lies Helen Burns. A candle is

set on a table at her side. Jane takes her hand.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 26.

Jane is devastated. She climbs into bed next to Helen. For

a moment, they hold each other. Jane's tears silently fall.

Jane cannot articulate her distress at Helen's words.

INT. DAY. LOWOOD - MISS TEMPLE'S ROOM.

We see Miss Temple looking down at the bed in the dazzling,

morning light. Jane, waking, has her small arms around

Helen, as if fiercely protecting her. Helen is ashen, her

eyes open, staring at some unseen thing. She is dead. Miss

Temple lifts Jane away.

Jane realises what has happened. We hear the sound of her

distress begin. She is inconsolable.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 27.

INT. DAY. MOOR HOUSE - THE PARLOUR.

Jane is staring out at the Autumn rain. She surreptitiously

wipes her tears away and smiles up at Mary.

Jane hands her a book. She has drawn a bride.

Mary turns the page. It shows a sketch of St John Rivers.

Mary gasps in delight. She takes the book straight to St

John, who is diligently working at his desk.

St John looks at the sketch of himself. He is quite taken

aback. He looks over at Jane, who is quite embarrassed.

For a moment, St John seems to be weighing up whether to be

insulted or not.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 28.

On the contrary, Jane is deeply gratified.

Jane smiles at him. St John is impressed.

INT. DAY. MORTON - THE SCHOOL ROOM.

Jane is at the blackboard in a freshly painted school room.

In front of her are about twenty village girls, aged from

six to sixteen. They are hanging on her every word.

Jane is writing a neat line of 'a's.

INT. NIGHT. MORTON - JANE'S COTTAGE.

Jane's first home is like a doll's house. She walks through

it from the whitewashed bedroom with its little single bed,

through the parlour with its tiny fireplace into the

scullery kitchen. She retraces her steps back into the

parlour. She turns round and surveys it.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 29.

Silence but for the crackling of the fire and the blowing

of the wind. She feels glad, grateful, but very, very

alone. She hears Brocklehurst's voice.

She spins around as if he is there.

EXT. DAY. A CHURCHYARD.

Brocklehurst is at the church door; Jane looking at him

coldly. She holds a bunch of wild flowers.

She walks into the graveyard. There are over forty small

graves marked with wooden crosses, each bearing a child's

name. One of them says Helen Burns. Jane lays down her

flowers.

She looks up at Brocklehurst. He cannot meet her eye.

We hear the voice of Mrs Fairfax.

INT. NIGHT. MORTON - JANE'S COTTAGE.

Jane tries to quell her great unhappiness. She springs into

action, straightening her furniture, stoking her fire.

EXT. DAY. A ROADSIDE.

Jane, younger and more hopeful, with her belongings in a

small trunk, awaits an approaching public coach.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 30.

EXT. DAY. MORTON - JANE'S COTTAGE.

Jane is in her scullery putting all her energy into

scrubbing dishes.

Jane closes her eyes, trying to banish her thoughts. It is

no good. The memories crowd in.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE GROUND FLOOR.

A smiling lady dressed in black approaches her through the

darkness - Mrs Alice Fairfax.

Mrs Fairfax leads Jane up the dark corridor and into a cosy

parlour. Leah, a young maidservant, follows.

Mrs Fairfax undoes the ribbon on Jane's bonnet. Jane is

taken aback, unused to motherliness of any kind.

Leah eyes Jane with great curiosity. She hurries away.

Knitting apparatus lies abandoned on a fireside chair. Mrs

Fairfax moves it and gestures for Jane to sit.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 31.

Jane can't help noticing that every surface is covered in

lace, embroidery, or fine crochet. The whole room is an

advertisement for Mrs Fairfax's skill at handicrafts - and

testament to the hours she has spent alone.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 32.

She continues to laugh. A bashful smile is playing on

Jane's lips. Mrs Fairfax is beginning to thaw her.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE HALL / STAIRCASE.

Mrs Fairfax is carrying a lamp across the great hall; the

only light. Jane can perceive grandeur looming out of the

darkness; Jacobean fireplace, coat of arms, head of a stag.

Very gloomy, eerie. Her breath is vaporising in the cold.

As Jane follows Mrs Fairfax up the stairs, light is thrown

on portraits of dour, craggy, long dead ancestors.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - A LONG GALLERY.

Dark heavy drapes, another striking portrait. A dark,

voluptuous woman in an 18th Century gown, ruby lipped, one

full breast exposed. Jane glances away, taken aback by the

woman's bold expression and her nakedness.

Mrs Fairfax leads Jane through the wood-panelled darkness.

She opens the door to a small but delightful room.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 33.

Jane looks in: a fire burning, a lamp lit by her bed, a

soft quilt, pale chintz curtains.

She is utterly speechless. Her eight years of physical

discomfort and hardship are over.

Mrs Fairfax can see how affected she is - and how hard she

is trying to button it down.

INT. NEXT MORNING. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM.

Jane opens the curtains. She draws her breath in at the

sight of the grounds. They are beautiful.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE DRAWING ROOM.

Jane enters a magnificent room. Mrs Fairfax is dusting.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE LIBRARY.

Adele Varens, an exquisitely dressed child of eight, is

chatting animatedly to Jane and Mrs Fairfax. At her side is

Sophie, her nurse - a desperately shy and lonely girl.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 34.

Adele adopts a lovelorn pose. She sings an operetta song; a

forsaken lady plotting vengeance on her lover. Her high

voice warbles with pretended emotion. The effect is rather

weird. Jane and Mrs Fairfax watch, open-mouthed.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - MRS FAIRFAX'S PARLOUR.

Adele's song continues as a voiceover. Mrs Fairfax is

finishing a shawl. Jane is showing Adele pictures of little

objects that she has sketched. Adele names them in English.

The song ends. Jane gives Adele a sketch of herself.

Mrs Fairfax shakes out the finished shawl and puts it round

Jane's shoulders, departing before Jane can protest.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 35.

Jane is delighted at the kindness of the gift.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE LONG GALLERY

Jane holds a candle, the shawl around her; the moaning

sound of a gale outside. She holds her candle up to the

portrait of the voluptuous woman.

She stares at it curious, both as a girl and as an artist.

She brings the candle close, to see how the brushwork has

achieved the effect of flesh. She hears a low, knowing

laugh in the darkness behind her. She is startled.

Her own huge shadow is the only thing that moves. She hears

the laugh again. She follows it through the darkness, alert

with fear. A door clicks shut at the end of the corridor.

To her relief Jane sees Mrs Fairfax approach with a lamp.

Mrs Fairfax flounders for a second.

A door opens. Jane sees a broad-faced woman with slow,

intelligent eyes. She looks as if she has just woken up.

Grace looks at Jane with sly curiosity. She leaves the

sewing room and opens a door through which a flight of

steep steps are revealed. Grace climbs them and disappears.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 36.

EXT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE LEADS.

Jane is on the turreted roof, looking up at the cawing

rooks - and down at the view; a white, frosted wilderness.

Jane senses a presence behind her. She quickly turns. Mrs

Fairfax is coming through the rooftop door.

Mrs Fairfax approaches, concerned.

Jane looks out at the view once more.

Mrs Fairfax's troubled look makes Jane fall silent. Mrs

Fairfax looks as if she is about to say something - then

puts on her practical face, the moment of intimacy gone.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 37.

EXT. DAY. A FROZEN MEADOW.

Jane is walking with purpose, carrying a bundle of letters.

The exercise is lifting her spirits. The sun is sinking,

turning the frost gold.

EXT. DAY. A FROZEN WOOD.

A brook runs close to the path; half frozen. Its slow

trickle is the only sound to be heard. Jane moves slowly,

acutely aware of everything around her.

Further into the wood, the brook has frozen right across

the path. Jane slips on it as she passes. The noise of her

feet echoes. She steadies herself.

She gazes at a huddle of snowdrops, their heads bowed. A

crystal drop of water runs to the end of a snowdrop and

begins to freeze as she watches. It is held suspended as if

the whole winter is contained in it.

The moon is mounting the sky. Jane hears a sound like the

beating of wings. The blood is rushing through her ears.

Her trance is broken by the figure of a great dog - which

glides past her so close it almost knocks her off her feet.

The beating is loud; not wings she realises, but the rush

of an approaching horse. It is almost on top of her before

she can move. Her shocked, pale face, her black garments

startle both horse and rider.

The rider gets the horse under control and continues, only

to have his horse slip on the ice. Both man and horse fall

with a crash. The dog begins to bark, until the hills echo

with the sound. The horse is on one side; the man is lying,

trapped beneath it on the ice; Edward Fairfax Rochester.

Jane is confounded.

Rochester stares at her; a tiny black figure, surrounded by

darkening frost, the low moon behind her.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 38.

Jane doesn't move. Rochester turns to his horse.

With much stamping and clattering, the horse clambers to

its feet. Rochester seems relieved.

He tries to stand himself. His ankle will bear no weight.

He lets out an involuntary cry. It echoes:

Rochester looks at her once more. He manages to get himself

off the ice. He sits on a nearby stile. Jane approaches

him. She now has the moon on her face. She begins to look

less like a phantom and more like a girl.

Rochester looks as if he doesn't believe her.

Rochester is trying to place her. She is a puzzle to him.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 39.

Examining Jane once more, he laughs a low laugh.

Jane does not like to be laughed at.

Jane doesn't like his imperious tone. She looks at the

horse; huge, trampling, nervous. Rochester is amused.

Jane obeys. She endeavours to catch the bridle but the

horse rears away. Jane falls on the ice. Rochester bursts

out laughing. Jane picks herself up.

Jane resists.

Jane approaches. Rochester instantly leans all his weight

on her. She almost crumples under it; the first time she

has ever touched and been touched by a man. She holds him

up. And walks him closer to his horse.

The horse approaches him. Rochester calms it. He springs

into the saddle, grimacing as he wrenches his sprain.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 40.

Rochester's spurred heel makes the horse start and rear.

Jane steps back. The horse bounds away, the dog rushing in

its traces. All three disappear.

Jane doesn't move until the sound of hooves has faded away.

Her face is flushed, her eyes glitter in the dark.

I/E. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE FRONT ENTRANCE/HALL.

Jane runs up to the front door. She pushes it open. To her

amazement, there is a fire burning in the stone fireplace.

The whole hall is lit. The double doors are open into the

library. Mrs Fairfax is hurriedly approaching.

Mrs Fairfax anxiously hurries back into the library. A

large dog wanders out. Jane finds herself looking at Pilot.

She smiles.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE LIBRARY.

Jane enters. Rochester is in front of a superb fire - one

foot bandaged and supported on a stool. Pilot is at his

feet - and so is Adele, gazing adoringly at him.

Rochester is looking through Jane's portfolio of sketches

and watercolours. Jane feels utterly exposed - as if her

diary is being read. Mrs Fairfax timidly interrupts.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 41.

Jane sits. Rochester continues to study her work.

Adele is gazing at him uncomprehending, her face radiant.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 42.

Mrs Fairfax looks at Jane, bewildered. Rochester lifts one

of her watercolours.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 43.

A swollen sea. A cormorant, a golden bracelet held in its

beak. A girl's arm coming out of the water, white and

deathly, her drowned figure underneath.

He turns the next. The top of a hill. An expanse of

twilight sky. Rising up, a girl's shape, her forehead

crowned with a star, red hair flowing; Helen Burns.

Rochester gives her a direct gaze.

Jane cannot reply.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE NURSERY.

Jane is by the blackboard, where she is writing sums.

Mrs Fairfax breathlessly enters.

Jane looks at her in disbelief.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 44.

Jane watches helplessly as Mrs Fairfax takes her portfolio.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE HALL/LANDING.

Jane is crossing the landing holding Adele's hand.

Downstairs, the library doors swing wide open. The sound of

male laughter can be heard; gentlemen walk out into the

hall. Rochester follows, walking with a stick.

All eyes turn upon the landing. Jane tries to find a shadow

to back into but there are none. Adele curtsies.

It is unclear whether he is referring to Adele or Jane. He

makes a bow. The men are staring at Jane with great

curiosity. It makes her uncomfortable. She tugs Adele away.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE DRAWING ROOM.

A box tied with ribbons sits on the table.

Rochester is leaning against the mantelpiece, drinking.

Mrs Fairfax kindly leads Adele away. Jane is about to cross

the room with them.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 45.

He gestures to a chair by the fire. Jane obeys. She studies

Rochester. He is intent on Adele, who is pulling a pink

satin dress out of the box.

Adele, irrepressible, runs across the room embracing the

dress. She drops on one knee at Rochester's feet.

She looks up, seeking his approval.

Adele skips off with Mrs Fairfax.

Rochester notices how keenly Jane is observing him.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 46.

Rochester laughs.

Jane senses his mockery.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 47.

Jane smiles.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 48.

Rochester takes in her open, compassionate face.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 49.

This question cuts Jane to the quick.

Jane opens her mouth to speak - but she cannot.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 50.

EXT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE GROUNDS. SPRING.

Jane is playing battledore and shuttlecock with Adele. Her

playing is full of energy, very free. Her cheeks looks

almost rosy. It is spring.

Adele serves. The game continues apace. Rochester wanders

out of the open double doors of the library. He watches.

Something lands at his feet. A rook's feather. He looks up

at the battlements. A shape disappears, too fast to see.

Rochester's features cloud over with an expression of shame

and detestation. He stands in a terrible inner conflict.

Jane notices him - she misses her shot.

Rochester is leaning over the balustrade, his head bowed.

He looks up. A hard and cynical expression has mastered his

countenance, something resolute. Jane is taken aback.

Rochester picks up the black feather. He starts to walk

across the grounds at a fast pace. Jane follows.

He turns, the whole house now in his sights. He shouts:

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 51.

Adele is running after them.

Rochester snaps at her with shocking ferocity.

Adele's face crumples into tears. Rochester sees Jane's

shock at his outburst. He walks away.

Jane isn't sure whether she has been dismissed or not.

Adele has run back to Pilot. Jane watches her. She suddenly

finds Rochester is back at her side. He walks her along.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 52.

Adele is curled up, seeking comfort from the dog.

Jane is looking at Adele full of compassion.

Adele looks up. Rochester speaks graciously.

Adele is immensely gratified by his apology.

INT. DUSK. THORNFIELD / THE RED ROOM.

Jane, aged ten, is walking along the long gallery. She

opens a door and finds herself in the Red Room.

She stares into the mirror, searching the pale face of her

reflection, as if trying to find an answer. A murmur seems

to come down the gaping chimney; a woman's deep sigh.

Jane's throat tightens with fear. Something moves in the

shadows behind her.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 53.

She scans them, her eyes full of terror. Jane knows beyond

all doubt that something is there. She hears a low laugh.

It seems to be right next to her. She tries to scream -

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - SECOND FLOOR.

Jane wakes. Her curtains are open; moonlight spilling in.

She hears it again; the laugh from her dream, right outside

her door - low and deep.

Footsteps run away. Jane springs out of bed and pulls the

door open. A door shuts at the end of the corridor.

There is a single candle burning in its holder on the rush

matting, flickering in the draft. Jane picks it up. She

notices something else - a curling wreath of grey smoke.

She follows its trail through the pitch darkness. It is

coming thickly from a half-open door at the front of the

house - Rochester's.

Jane rushes in. Rochester's bed is on fire; the hangings,

the curtains, all are alight. The flames are leaping.

Rochester is asleep. She shakes him.

Rochester only stirs. The smoke has stupefied him. Jane

pulls the burning sheets off - then stops; he is naked. She

takes his basin and douses the bed - soaking him.

Jane takes the ewer and throws water on the curtains. She

pulls the soggy fabric from its rail and smothers the

burning couch. When all the flames are out, she rushes to

the windows and opens them. Smoke billows out. She stands

in the moonlight, coughing.

Rochester is sitting up, staring at her.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 54.

Rochester is springing out of bed. Jane turns away,

mortified - having caught sight of his silhouetted shape.

Rochester is putting on a dressing gown, lighting the lamp.

Rochester gets his coat and puts it round her.

He goes. Jane looks at his ruined chamber; The blackened

drapes on the four poster bed, the fireplace, the huge

wardrobe. It is not unlike the red room.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - ROCHESTER'S ROOM.

Half an hour later. First light. Jane is in an armchair.

She has snuggled up in the coat. She takes in a breath,

smelling its owner. She nuzzles her head against it. She

closes her eyes, running her fingers down the lining.

She looks up. Rochester is watching her. His expression is

peculiar. She holds the coat closely around her.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 55.

Rochester approaches her.

Rochester holds out his hand. Jane takes it. They shake.

Rochester wraps Jane's hand in both of his.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 56.

Rochester is drawing her slowly closer. Jane, disconcerted,

is trying to resist.

At last, he relaxes his grip. She backs away. She goes.

INT. DAWN. THORNFIELD. JANE'S ROOM.

Jane is keeling on the windowsill, looking out at the

rising sun. She is lit by its glowing rays; inspired. It's

a rare feeling that prompts her mood, as new and unfolding

as the day itself - happiness.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - ROCHESTER'S ROOM.

Jane looks in to see Leah and Martha cleaning the soot from

the woodwork and windowpanes. To her amazement, Grace Poole

is there, calmly sewing rings to new curtains.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 57.

Jane is infuriated. She turns on her heel.

INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - MRS FAIRFAX'S PARLOUR.

Jane walks in. Their meal is laid out.

Jane takes this piece of news like an invisible shock.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 58.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE NURSERY.

Jane is at the window, brooding. Outside the rain is

pouring. Adele, dressed in yellow frills, is concerned.

Jane turns, expecting to see Adele.

INT. DAY. MORTON - THE SCHOOL ROOM.

Jane finds herself in front of her class. They are looking

at her expectantly. She looks back at them curiously. Eager

faces, plain rural clothes. She has quite lost her place.

INT. EVENING. MORTON - THE SCHOOL ROOM.

Jane is tidying up at the end of the day. The classroom is

empty. Her life is bare. It shows on her face. She looks

up. St John Rivers is watching her from the door.

Jane immediately puts on a sprightly face and continues

clearing up.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 59.

St John approaches her; speaks intimately.

St John is turning to go.

Jane moves involuntarily towards him.

Jane is incredulous. St John is at her desk. It is covered

in her drawings. He glances through them.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 60.

St John suddenly snatches up a piece of paper.

His eyes, in an instant, seem to take in everything about

her. He opens his mouth to speak - then checks himself.

He folds the paper and takes it.

He goes. Jane looks after him, puzzled.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE HALL.

Mrs Fairfax approaches Jane with a letter in her hand.

Mrs Fairfax has worked herself up into quite a panic.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 61.

Jane can sense that the old lady is overwhelmed.

We see Mrs Fairfax approach Jane in a rush of gratitude.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE SECOND FLOOR.

Jane wears a housekeeper's apron over her dress. She enters

Rochester's room with an armful of bed linen. It has been

returned to its former glory. Adele is jumping up and down

on the bed. Sophie is trying to coax her off it. Jane gives

Sophie the sheets.

Adele leaves the room with Jane and skids all the way down

the newly polished gallery in her stockinged feet. Jane

can't help smiling.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE KITCHENS.

Jane sets down several bottles of wine on the kitchen table

in order to dust them. The kitchen is a hive of activity -

except for one lone figure sitting quietly in a chair by

the fire, smoking a pipe; Grace Poole. Leah and one of the

hired under cooks are talking abut her.

Jane affects not to listen, but is keenly interested.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 62.

Leah notices Jane's curious glance. She nudges the under

cook. Jane, picks up the bottles and carries them away. As

she passes she hears:

At that moment, Adele rushes in.

Mrs Fairfax tries to get her apron off. She becomes

flustered. Jane helps her.

Mrs Fairfax and Adele go. Jane looks out of the window.

Her attention is focussed on two equestrians who lead the

arriving party; Rochester and Blanche, the dark beauty at

his side. She is laughing at something. The sun shines

behind her. Jane is dazzled. She turns away.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE SECOND FLOOR.

Jane comes up the back stairs and on to the gallery, just

as the ladies start to issue from their rooms. She stands

back in a dark corner.

There is an approach of chatter; a subdued vivacity. A

flurry of multicoloured silks, lace and velvets go by. They

descend the staircase as noiselessly as a bright mist.

Jane steps out. She walks right into the path of Blanche

Ingram, who is dressed in white. They both startle.

Blanche gives her a look of ice. Rochester is at the top of

the stairs.

They both turn. Rochester has seen Blanche, not Jane. He

offers her his arm, his gaze full of admiration. Jane sinks

back into the shadows.

Blanche lays her gloved hand on Rochester's arm, barely

touching him. They glide away.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 63.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE HALL.

Adele and Jane sit on the stairs, listening to Blanche and

Rochester sing. Their voices thrill. Jane is trying not to

feel. But when Rochester hits an exceptionally beautiful

note, she involuntarily closes her eyes.

Adele leans into Jane. She is crying.

Jane, full of compassion, takes Adele back to her room.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE SCHOOLROOM.

Mrs Fairfax enters in a great hurry.

Adele leaps up, delighted. Jane is crestfallen.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE DRAWING ROOM/HALL

Jane is delivering Adele into the centre of the company.

Jane finds it hard to get a proper impression of the

guests, as she cannot raise her eyes to look at them.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 64.

Adele makes a dainty curtsey - pink frock, hair in

ringlets, little lace gloves. In the midst of the crowd is

Blanche.

Adele blissfully disappears into a moving sea of dresses.

Only one guest is still looking in Jane's direction;

Blanche. Her lip curls in distaste.

Jane backs into a nearby window seat; always her place of

refuge. She closes her eyes. A great Atlantic wave hits the

sash window behind her, drenching it with foam and brine.

When she opens her eyes, Rochester is in her line of

vision, standing out in a crowd of unmanly men. He senses

her gaze; glances at her. Jane looks down, pulling her work

on to her lap; a beaded purse. She does not lift her eyes

from the beads, fully feeling the humiliation of her class -

and of her love. Blanche sidles up to Rochester.

Rochester turns away from Jane.

Jane glances up; sees Rochester's back to her, throws her

eyes down, once more.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 65.

The reaction is instant.

Jane's fingers sew. Only the briefest flash of her eyes

towards the company shows her mortification. Blanche has

started playing a brilliant prelude on the piano.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 66.

Rochester laughs loudly. Jane is heading for the door.

Jane closes the door on Blanche. She breathes in fresh air,

nauseous. Blanche's splendid prelude drifts out.

Rochester comes into the hall from the other door. Jane

instantly bends down and pretends to be tying her shoe.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 67.

Jane catches sight of Mrs Fairfax, who is watching them

with an expression of unease. Rochester glares at her.

Rochester seems winded.

Rochester cannot speak.

Mrs Fairfax goes.

In the drawing room, Blanche's prelude finishes to

enthusiastic applause. Rochester has Jane's hand.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 68.

Jane is frightened of his passion.

Rochester lets her hand go. He steps back. He goes to the

morning room. Jane peers through the door, worrying how her

last words have given offence.

She sees a man rising to meet Rochester; handsome but gaunt

and painfully thin. His smile doesn't reach his eyes - as

if his soul is not quite his own.

They embrace, Rochester doing a fine impression of delight.

INT. DAY. LOWOOD - THE HALL.

Jane is standing on the pedestal of infamy, ten years old.

Helen Burns is walking towards her with something in her

arms. The rising sun is all around her.

Jane looks down at the bundle. In it, is a newborn boy.

Jane looks up to ask Helen for help. But Helen has gone.

Jane alone with her burden, teeters on the stool. The baby

starts to cry. Jane panics.

The crying becomes deafening, terrifying. It is not a

baby's cry but a human scream.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 69.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM/ THE GALLERY.

Jane wakes, hearing a savage, sharp shriek of such power

and intensity it seems to tear the night in two.

Overhead, the sounds of a struggle begin - a deadly one.

Jane hears footsteps rush past her door. She starts to pull

on her dress. She hears a man's voice from above:

A great stamp on the floor above; something falls with a

thud; silence. Jane grabs her candle and leaves her room.

The guests likewise are all issuing from their rooms; some

with candles, some stumbling into the dark. The gallery is

filling with terrified ladies and shocked gentlemen. Their

shadows dance grotesquely on the walls.

Rochester comes forth from the door at the end of the

gallery, holding a candelabra.

Blanche flies towards him like a banshee.

She embraces him. Rochester patiently removes her.

Jane, the only person behind Rochester, sees by the light

of her candle that his dressing gown is trailing blood.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 70.

The candles flicker and fade as the guests make their way

back to their rooms. Rochester sees Jane.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE THIRD FLOOR.

Rochester stops by a low door. He puts a key in the lock.

He unlocks it. A room hung with tapestries; a four poster

bed with its curtains half drawn. One part of the tapestry

is hooked up over a hidden door - which lies open to an

inner chamber. A dull, sickly light shines out.

He goes to the inner chamber. A grim laugh greets him.

He locks the door. Jane shudders. He goes to the bed.

Jane obeys. Richard Mason is lying, one arm and all the

linen soaked in blood. Jane controls her reaction and makes

herself useful. Rochester is cleaning the wound.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 71.

Mason is silenced. Rochester puts the bloody sponge into

Jane's hand.

Rochester takes the candelabra. He is gone. Mason is

staring at Jane. There is something about the pupils in his

eyes that she finds deadly, chilling.

She dips the sponge in the bloody water and wipes away the

trickling gore.

She hears a low moan. She looks over at the door to the

inner chamber, aching to know the mystery behind it. Mason

makes her start by taking her wrist. He is trying to say

something. Jane puts her finger to her lips. She is begging

him not to speak.

INT. DAWN. THORNFIELD - THE THIRD FLOOR.

Rochester and Dr Carter are carrying Mason down the stairs.

Jane looks out on to the gallery. She is pale, drawn.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 72.

EXT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE GROUNDS.

A carriage waits. Rochester lifts Mason in to Dr Carter.

Jane hands in Mason's great coat. She stands back.

The carriage goes. Jane prepares to go inside but Rochester

walks her towards the orchard.

EXT. DAWN. THORNFIELD - THE ORCHARD.

The orchard is a different world; the dawn light

illuminating dewy trees. Rochester is silent. Jane is

trying to fathom him.

He walks off, pulling the heads off flowers as he passes.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 73.

He throws a cankered rose across the orchard. Jane manages

to articulate her anxiety.

Rochester, gazing at her, seems to have decided something.

He turns a corner and is gone. Jane is left alone. We hear

the sound of a blow.

INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE WINDOW SEAT.

The brutal face of John Reed, aged fourteen, triumphant

after hitting Jane.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE BILLIARD ROOM.

Jane enters as Rochester helps Blanche to line up a shot.

He is leaning intimately over her. She coyly permits him.

Jane has ruined Blanche's shot.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 74.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE LONG GALLERY.

Rochester has followed Jane out of the billiard room.

Jane shows him the letter.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 75.

He is on the point of returning to the billiard room.

Rochester looks in his wallet.

He taps the wallet, which is in his breast pocket.

Rochester strides away, grinning. Jane turns.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 76.

INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - BESSIE'S PARLOUR.

Bessie, now housekeeper, is moving forward to meet Jane.

They embrace.

INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - MRS REED'S BEDROOM

Jane takes her aunt's hand. Mrs Reed looks very near death.

Mrs Reed, with an effort, pulls her hand away from Jane's.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 77.

The words are a revelation to Jane. Mrs Reed gazes at her.

Jane motions Bessie to go.

Mrs Reed indicates a box on her bedside table.

Jane obeys. She reads the letter aloud.

Jane is stunned.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 78.

Mrs Reed shrinks from Jane's touch. Jane wipes her tears.

Mrs Reed's eyes close.

INT. DAY. GATESHEAD - THE RED ROOM.

The morning sun is pouring in. Jane goes to the bed. She

puts her hand upon it, gently, as if thanking her uncle for

all he did. She notices a picture on the wall. A miniature

of a brown-haired woman with elfin eyes.

Jane takes it off the wall. Bessie comes in.

Bessie nods. A tear rolls down Jane's face. She clasps the

picture, looking round the room.

EXT. DAY. A ROADSIDE.

A coach pulls up in the lane near Thornfield. Jane gets

out. We hear her voice.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 79.

EXT. EVENING. A SUMMER WOOD.

Jane is walking through the wooded glade where she first

met Rochester. All is green and verdant and bathed in

sunset light. There seems to be life everywhere.

Jane turns. Rochester is sitting on the stile where they

first met. For a moment, her every nerve is unstrung.

Rochester laughs.

Jane puts out her hand. Rochester takes it. He helps Jane

over the stile.

Jane lets go of his hand.

Jane, knowing she has said too much, turns and runs over

the fields towards Thornfield.

INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - MRS FAIRFAX'S PARLOUR

Jane is on a low seat, Adele nestling close to her.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 80.

Mrs Fairfax nods.

EXT. TWILIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE ORCHARD

Jane is alone, drinking in the beauty of the evening -

looking at the gardens as if she may never see them again.

She turns a corner and sees Rochester staring intently at

something. His back is to her. She is about to tiptoe away.

Jane approaches, wondering how he has sensed her presence.

Rochester is looking at a huge moth.

They watch the moth as it flies towards the house.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 81.

Jane's great distress escapes her.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 82.

Rochester takes Jane in his arms.

Jane struggles away from him.

Rochester releases her. She stands in front of him.

He gestures towards the house, the land. Jane is stunned.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 83.

Jane begins to believe him.

They embrace.

Neither Jane nor Rochester moves. Darkness is almost

complete. Still the intensity of the embrace is held.

A sheet of lightning momentarily lights up the sky. Some

moments later a distant rumble of thunder.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 84.

I/E. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE FRONT HALL

It is teeming with rain. Rochester and Jane run to the

front entrance. He holds his jacket around her. Lightning.

They reach the dry hearth inside. Thunder. They are both

euphoric, breathless, laughing.

He kisses her. They kiss again. Jane will not let him go.

As Jane runs upstairs she sees Mrs Fairfax, deeply shocked.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - MRS FAIRFAX'S PARLOUR

Jane wears a lilac gown. Mrs Fairfax is very concerned.

Jane is hurt.

Jane has heard enough. She turns away.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 85.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE HALL

Jane, walking through, finds herself in Rochester's arms.

She laughs as he raises her off the ground.

INT. DAY. A HABERDASHER'S SHOP.

Rochester is rolling out reams of beautiful silks. Jane

gets more uncomfortable as she looks at them.

Jane pushes the silks away.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 86.

Jane puts her arm through Rochester's. He smiles.

Rochester flicks his watch into the air.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - MRS FAIRFAX'S PARLOUR.

A summer gale. The moan of the wind sounds almost human.

The light is sickly, nightmarish.

A great box sits on the table, which Jane is opening.

Adele, Sophie and Mrs Fairfax are all looking on. Jane

pulls out a pearl coloured wedding gown. She is dismayed at

its opulence.

She holds it up to herself. Adele starts to play with the

great veil. She wraps it round herself. She becomes caught

in it, tangled, distressed.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM.

Jane wakes. There is a candle alight at the end of her bed.

Her eyes focus. Her wardrobe is open. Jane is unnerved.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 87.

A form emerges, a woman, tall and gaunt, with thick, black

hair hanging down her back. She is dressed in a nightgown -

like a shroud. Over her head, she wears Jane's bridal veil;

a phantom bride.

Jane is paralysed with terror.

The form takes the veil and slowly tears it in half;

bruised arms, dirt, predatory nails, neglect. The last

thing to be revealed is the woman's face, pale and ghastly.

Her eyes are glittering with hatred.

The figure takes the candle and bends down to Jane. Her

intention looks deadly. Jane's breath catches. She cannot

breathe.

The figure moves closer, then blows out the candle.

Darkness.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM.

Jane wakes, lying half out of the bed. The veil is over

her. She flings it away from her face. Jane sits, her

terror dawning. Her breath comes in great dry sobs. She is

shocked to find herself still alive.

EXT. EVENING. - THORNFIELD - BY THE GATES

Jane is waiting, pale with anxiety. A man on horseback

approaches, a great dog at his side; Rochester. He is

grinning.

He pulls Jane up on the horse in front of him. She curls

into his arms, desperate for his comfort and his strength.

Rochester senses something is wrong. He slows the horse.

INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM.

Rochester holds the torn veil in his hands. He is aghast.

He cannot think what to say.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 88.

Rochester keeps talking over her.

Jane clearly doesn't. Rochester takes her in his arms.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - ADELE'S ROOM.

Jane is in an unadorned pearl wedding gown.

Adele gives her a small bouquet. Jane hugs her, very moved -

as if she is leaving her childhood behind. She turns to go.

Jane gazes stupefied at the stranger in the mirror.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE HALL.

Rochester is waiting at the bottom of the stairs for Jane.

She slows when she sees him. She finds she cannot speak.

Neither can he.

Mrs Fairfax is by the door. Jane can't find words for her.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 89.

Rochester grips her hand. They quit the house.

EXT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE GROUNDS.

Rochester, grimly resolute, is striding at a pace Jane can

hardly follow. Her satin shoes are muddy. She is becoming

breathless. A rook flies over their heads, cawing.

EXT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE CHURCH.

Rochester is striding purposefully towards a small church

of ancient design. Jane stumbles. Rochester is contrite.

Jane tries to collect herself. She looks up to the sky. The

rook wheels around the spire. She takes Rochester's hand.

INT. DAY. THE CHURCH

At the altar, Jane glances at Rochester. He is looking

straight ahead at the clergyman, Wood.

There is not a sound. Rochester still doesn't look at Jane.

The clergyman prepares the rings.

A commotion at the back of the church. Two men rapidly

enter. One of them Briggs, hurries up the aisle.

Rochester moves, shaken.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 90.

Wood is utterly dismayed.

Briggs starts to read out a document.

Jane looks at Rochester. She forces him to look at her. He

denies nothing; defies everything.

Rochester turns to Briggs.

The figure by the door steps out of the shadows. It is

Richard Mason. Rochester flies down the aisle, a groan of

rage escapes him. He lifts his arm.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 91.

Mason flinches away. Rochester swallows his rage.

A grim smile contorts Rochester's lips. He turns towards

Jane. She remains where she was abandoned - at the altar -

tiny, under he vaulted arch. The bouquet falls from her

hand. Rochester walks to her.

A tiny breath is the only noise Jane utters. Rochester

pulls her from the altar to his side.

The sun outside is blinding. Jane closes her eyes.

I/E. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE ENTRANCE / HALL

Rochester enters pulling Jane after him, her hand still in

his iron grip. Wood, Mason and Briggs follow.

Mrs Fairfax, Adele, Sophie, Martha and Leah are waiting.

Adele runs forward. Rochester stops her in her tracks.

Adele has crumpled into frightened tears. Mrs Fairfax has

her hand over her mouth, pale with shock. Jane meets her

eye as Rochester pulls her up the stairs. A revelation.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 92.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE THIRD FLOOR.

The tapestried room. Rochester glances at Mason. He unlocks

the inner door with one hand; the other won't let go of

Jane. Grace Poole sits by a strongly guarded fire, stirring

something in a pot.

Rochester leads Jane and the men into the room. There is no

window, no furniture except for Grace's chair; only a

mattress on the floor.

Bertha Antoinetta Mason stands, amazed at the sight of her

visitors. She wears a white shift. There are black rook

feathers twined in her hair; her only ornament.

Bertha's pose is dignified, her expression grows

triumphant. She approaches Rochester - her eyes locked with

Jane's. Jane gazes: fear, disgust, compassion.

Briggs and Wood are deeply repelled.

Bertha puts her arm through Rochester's; lays her head on

his shoulder; smiles at Jane, magnanimous in her victory.

With shocking speed and strength Bertha lays her nails into

Rochester's cheek. He struggles with her.

Grace assists Rochester. They do not hit; they subdue.

Bertha's attack is effectively contained. They have her on

her knees, her arms behind her.

Bertha lifts her head and screams. If a scream could

express the agony of a whole soul then this would. Jane

turns on her heels. She stumbles, finds the door, exits.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE SECOND FLOOR.

Jane is coming down the stairs. Briggs is at her side.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 93.

Jane looks at Briggs, only dimly comprehending him.

Briggs gets only a blank look of puzzlement from Jane.

Jane starts walking towards the sanctuary of her room.

Jane opens her door. She turns to Briggs.

She shuts the door on Briggs and on the world.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM.

Jane sits on her bed. She mechanically starts taking off

the blond square she has worn as a veil.

Jane, standing in stillness with the pearl dress crumpled

around her feet.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 94.

Jane has taken a black stuff dress off its hangar. She

slowly puts her arms around it, as if it is her old self.

She holds it, her eyes staring at nothing.

Jane in her underclothes, sitting down on the bed. She

closes her eyes.

EXT. DAY. A DRY RIVER BED.

Jane lies curled up on a rock at the bottom of a dried-up

river bed. All of nature is suspended in stillness.

Far away, we hear the sound of a flood loosened in the

remote mountains. We hear the sound of the torrent

approach.

Jane doesn't move. She has no will to flee. The sound of

rushing water pounds in her ears. She lies, waiting to be

dashed away. We see the flood approach and hit. A dazzling

whiteness of water and foam.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM.

Jane's room is entirely unchanged except for the fact that

it is full of river water from floor to ceiling. Her

bedding, furniture and belongings all sit in the room as

normal - underwater.

The light shines murkily in through the window to reveal

Jane floating, suspended. Her hair and her garments trail

out. She is alive. But she is drowned.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM.

The moon has risen. Jane is lying in an exhausted doze on

the bed. She wakes; sits up. She is faint. She recovers

herself. She knows what she must do.

Jane, dressed in black in the silver light, putting her

brush, comb and brooch in a bag. She looks in her purse.

She has some coins.

INT. DAY. THORNFIELD - SECOND FLOOR.

Jane unbolts her door, takes a step out of her room, and

stumbles into Rochester's arms. He has been keeping guard.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 95.

His cheek has been cut by Bertha's nails.

He examines her face. He is desperate.

Rochester buries his head in Jane's arms. She automatically

comforts him.

Jane extricates herself from his embrace.

Rochester perceives Jane's inanition. He carries her down

the gallery. Jane clings on to her bag of belongings. She

has nothing else left.

INT. NIGHT. THORNFIELD - THE LIBRARY.

Rochester has lain Jane in front of the fire. She forces

herself to eat. Rochester gives her wine. She sips.

Rochester paces away to the fire. He comes back. Stoops his

head down to Jane to kiss her. She turns her head away.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 96.

Rochester cannot take this in.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 97.

Rochester sits, staring at the fire.

Jane is both appalled and moved.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 98.

He sees that Jane is silently crying.

They are holding each other.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 99.

Jane tries to rise. Rochester keeps hold of her hand. He

gently pulls her down again. Comforts her.

He kisses her gently, lovingly.

He runs his hands over her, with great tenderness. Jane

offers no resistance.

Jane nods.

Rochester lays her down.

Jane is almost lost. She speaks in a small voice.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 100.

Jane's resolve grows. She resists.

Jane instantly stops resisting. She looks at him with utter

shock. He is above her.

Jane neither moves nor speaks.

All the life seems to go out of Rochester. He lets Jane go.

She pulls herself away from him. She stands. He remains,

his face buried.

She goes to the door. Rochester turns his eyes to her.

Jane cannot speak it. She turns away.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 101.

EXT. DAWN. THORNFIELD - THE GROUNDS.

First light. Jane is running; flushed, breathless, her

dress soaked with dew. She has her bag of belongings over

her shoulder. She trips; falls to her knees.

She looks back. For a moment she seems paralysed. She

returns her gaze to the route ahead. Her need to escape is

so great that she crawls forwards until she is able to

raise herself to her feet.

She reaches the stile; lifts herself on to it; puts her

arms around the post. She holds it, as if it were beloved.

Her eyes close. We hear the sound of a winter blizzard.

INT. NIGHT. JANE'S COTTAGE.

Jane opens her eyes. She is sitting at her fireside.

Outside, a snowstorm howls. On her knee is a sketchbook.

She looks down at it.

Rochester's dark eye is beginning to appear on her paper.

She puts a line through it; scribbles it out, blinding him.

She stands up, trying to escape her thoughts. She whispers:

There is a loud knock on the door. Jane starts.

Jane opening the door. Rochester is there, standing in the

frozen hurricane and howling darkness.

Jane pulls him inside. She falls into his arms. They

embrace passionately. Jane is actively pulling him towards

her, delirious with love and longing.

The exact same shot of Jane opening the door. St John

Rivers is there, having waded through the drifting snow.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 102.

He takes off his cloak; stamps the snow off his boots.

St John's eyes alight on Jane's charcoal drawing. Jane

snatches it away too late. There is a moment of silence.

Jane motions to St John to sit. He doesn't. She becomes

increasingly uneasy as he speaks.

Jane starts. She is on her feet.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 103.

St John opens his pocket book and removes a piece of paper.

He hands her the paper. On it are doodled the heads of some

of her pupils. She has absently written Jane Eyre in the

margin several times.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 104.

Silence. Jane is flabbergasted.

At last, Jane looks questioningly up at him.

The news literally takes Jane's breath away.

St John begins to laugh at Jane's reaction. She has never

seen him laugh before.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 105.

Jane still cannot take it in. She frowns in disbelief.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 106.

Jane is deeply moved.

She throws her arms around St John. Tears of happiness

start to flow. He, finding it peculiar to be held, gently

tries to calm her.

Jane finally releases him, still radiant with joy.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 107.

A terrible thought occurs to her.

St John takes her hand. She has surprised and moved him. He

looks at her, seeing her anew.

EXT. DAY. SPRING - THE MOORS.

Jane, Diana and Mary are running over the moors. Mary has a

kite. They are as delighted as children.

INT. DAY. MOOR HOUSE - THE KITCHEN.

Jane is sitting at the table letting Diana style her hair.

They all have new summer dresses on. There is a lightness

to all three as if a great weight has been lifted from

their shoulders.

Diana is setting Jane's hair into curls like her own. Jane

looks at herself in the mirror; softer, gentler, different.

INT. NIGHT. MOOR HOUSE - THE PARLOUR.

The girls each have a candle. St John kisses Mary. He

kisses Diana.

Jane turns to Diana, embarrassed.

As she turns back, she finds St John's face right in front

of her. He kisses her. A kiss with no warmth; an

experiment. He examines its effect. He is satisfied.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 108.

INT. NIGHT. MOOR HOUSE - JANE'S BEDROOM.

Jane closes the door. She puts her hand across her lips.

The icy kiss has agonised her with the full force of her

loneliness. She curls up in a ball, desperate.

EXT. EVENING. MOOR HOUSE - THE GARDEN.

A glorious summer sunset. Jane is digging at a flower bed,

putting all her passion into the task. She is flushed with

exertion. St John watches.

St John draws Jane away from her work.

Jane is utterly crestfallen.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 109.

Jane is chilled to the bone by his words. St John leaves

the garden and walks away over the moors.

Jane leaning against the garden wall, trying to think,

trying to compose herself. The sun is setting.

INT. NIGHT. MOOR HOUSE - THE PARLOUR.

Jane carrying a candle, opens the door. St John is at the

table working by lamp light. The moon shines brightly in.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 110.

Jane is shocked.

St John is mortified. A slow rage begins to boil in him.

Jane is stung. St John has turned from her. His face is icy

in the moonlight.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 111.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 112.

St John's anger has faded. He is compassionate. This is far

harder to resist.

St John puts his hand on her forehead; Christlike. Jane is

falling under his power.

Jane falls to her knees. St John's face is angelic.

She suddenly hears a voice: Rochester's; clear, urgent.

She springs away from St John, crying:

She looks wildly about the room; rushes to the window.

Jane glances at him, seeing him for what he is; a cold,

controlling man. She shouts:

She runs out, leaving St John aghast, behind her.

EXT. NIGHT. THE MOOR.

Jane runs on to the moors.

She looks all around her at the moonlit landscape.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 113.

The moors send her question back in an echo. We see Jane's

face. Her path is clear.

EXT. DAY. WHITCROSS MOOR.

Jane is waiting for the coach at the crossroads where she

arrived, almost a year before. It comes pounding towards

her. She hails it. This time, the coachman respectfully

descends to take her bag and help her on. She is so

confident and so changed that he doesn't recognise her.

EXT. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE GROUNDS.

Jane is walking through the orchard. It is wild, neglected.

Its untended state worries her. She looks up. Rooks are

circling, cawing.

Jane finds herself at the side of the house. The ground is

pitted with weeds. The windows are dark. She half runs

round to the front. What she sees takes her breath away.

The great walls and battlements are blackened with fire.

Windows gape on a hollow shell. The inside of the house has

collapsed. Through the hanging door, only its charred

remains can be seen. Weeds grow through utter devastation.

Jane gazes in horror and distress.

I/E. DAY. MRS FAIRFAX'S COTTAGE

Jane knocks on the door. Mrs Fairfax opens it.

Jane can say no more.

Mrs Fairfax takes Jane in her arms.

Jane is crying tears of relief.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 114.

INT. DAY. MRS FAIRFAX'S COTTAGE

Mrs Fairfax has sat Jane on a settle near the fire.

I/E. DAY. THORNFIELD - THE FRONT DOOR/GROUNDS.

Rochester, unshaven and unkempt is standing at his

threshold.

We see what he is looking at: an open carriage piled with

luggage, into which Mrs Fairfax is helping Adele. Leah and

Sophie are already sitting inside, dressed for a journey.

Adele looks back at Rochester with tears in her eyes. He

walks across the dark hall and slams the library doors.

EXT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE ORCHARD.

Rochester, in his shirt sleeves, is looking at the tree

where Jane promised him her hand - now dying, cleft by

lightning. The rising moon inhabits the sky.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 115.

Rochester hears a cry from the top floor. He sets off, a

look of finality on his face.

INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE KITCHEN.

Grace Poole is asleep, her empty jug of gin beside her.

Rochester takes Grace's keys.

INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE THIRD FLOOR

Rochester opens the door to the inner chamber.

Bertha Antoinetta Mason, standing in the last patch of

daylight thrown down from her skylight, sees that it is

Rochester. She calmly walks towards him.

Rochester graciously bows, indicating that she may leave.

Bertha glides past him. She is free.

INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE GALLERY

Bertha walks past an elegant vase. She tips it to the

floor. It smashes. Rochester pays it no heed.

INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE LIBRARY.

Rochester has stood Bertha at his desk. A case of jewels is

open before her. She has put on a tiara, a diamond

necklace, bracelets. She is gazing at a ruby brooch. She

turns to Rochester. His expression is calm, resigned.

Bertha begins to laugh.

She takes the candelabra from the table. She admires

herself in the mirror; her white shift, the black feathers,

the jewels. She holds up the candelabra and sets the huge

curtains alight.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 116.

Rochester is impassive; he does nothing to stop her. As she

passes, Rochester realises he is bleeding. She has run the

brooch pin across him.

INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE HALL/STAIRS.

Bertha knocks a lamp onto the floor. The oil springs into

flames, licking the tapestries and the paintings. Rochester

sees his ancestors begin to burn.

INT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE SECOND FLOOR

The conflagration is growing. Rochester sees Bertha leaving

Jane's room. As he passes, he sees everything inside it

being consumed by fire. He can't bear to look.

EXT. EVENING. THORNFIELD - THE LEADS.

Bertha is watching the rooks. Rochester goes to the edge of

the roof. Bertha looks at him. The invitation is clear.

Rochester is ready to die.

Bertha sees the rooks wheeling away. She runs at the edge

of the roof. Rochester sees her intention too late. He puts

out his arm to stop her.

For the perfect fraction of a second, Bertha flies.

Rochester sees her fall; almost falls himself - saves

himself.

Life reawakens in him. Behind him, he sees Grace Poole,

coughing, crawling up through the door.

Responsibility floods over him. He goes to her side, lifts

Grace, helps her down the stairs.

INT. DAY. MRS FAIRFAX'S COTTAGE

Jane is deeply affected.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 117.

Tears fall from Jane's eyes.

A great sense of urgency is coming over her.

EXT. DAY. FERNDEAN - THE GROUNDS.

Jane is walking through forest, along a grass grown track.

Her pace is fast; her journey almost at an end. She comes

to a pair of rusting iron gates hanging open between

granite pillars. She walks through them.

She finds herself in front of a decrepit Elizabethan manor

house; no garden, just a sweeping semi circle of meadow

grass, which someone has cut at with a scythe. Jane stops.

Standing on the threshold is Edward Fairfax Rochester. He

is in his shirtsleeves. He stands strong, stalwart,

brooding. His hair is still raven black. He is looking

sightlessly around his domain, with the concentration of a

hawk. His strength is undiminished.

He walks fifteen paces from the house. It brings him into

the middle of the semicircle of grass. He is close enough

for Jane to see his scarred eyes. She walks towards him,

silent.

A few drops of rain begin to fall. Rochester puts out his

right hand to feel them. He raises his face up to the sky

as if he is looking for something from there. He is

absolutely still; his expression, serene.

Jane is very close. She steps on a twig. It breaks with a

loud crack, shattering the silence. Rochester is

immediately on guard, his expression turning wary.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 118.

He suddenly swipes the air with his left arm; the ruin of

it passing an inch from her face. Jane steps back.

Rochester swipes again. She holds her breath.

He seems satisfied at last that nothing is there. He turns

and walks fifteen paces back to the house. He disappears

into the dark interior.

Jane starts to breathe again.

EXT. DAY. FERNDEAN - THE SIDE ENTRANCE.

Jane lightly taps on the side door. Martha opens it; she is

astonished. Jane puts her finger over her lips.

INT. EVENING. FERNDEAN - THE DRAWING ROOM.

Rochester is in an armchair in front of his fire. Pilot is

at his feet. Jane carries in a tray with a candelabra and a

jug of water.

Pilot notices Jane. He leaps up with a whine, wagging his

tail, madly. Jane spills half the water. She cannot help

finding it funny. Her entrance has been ruined by the dog.

Jane giggles. Rochester's face falls.

Rochester stands, holding out his hand.

Jane touches his fingers; puts her hand in his. Rochester

pulls her into his arms.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 119.

For some while neither is able to speak.

Jane curled on Rochester's knee by the fire. He is running

his fingers over her face, feeling its contours.

She is running her hands through his hair.

Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 120.

She kisses his eyes.

A smile cracks Rochester's face.

Jane runs her fingers over it, feeling its contours.

He holds her.

Silence falls.

