EARTH FROM SPACE

The blue marble as seen from space.  We hear the calm voice

of Jerry Maguire, talking just to us.

AMERICA FROM SPACE

The great continent through mist and swirling skies.

(Satellites and other pieces of skycasting equipment float

by.)

KID ON BASKETBALL COURT

A puberty-ravaged kid dribbles a basketball, stares straight

at us.

Discreetly, his hand slips into his pants and scratches.

Girl on a high dive she's poised.  A faraway look in her eyes.

She launches her dive into mid-air, into nothingness.

ON TEENAGE GIRL BOXER

throwing punches toward the camera.

ON A YOUNG BASEBALL PLAYER

at bat.

He swats a pitch -- not out of the park, it's much sweeter

than that.  He drills it over the first baseman's head, just

out of reach of his glove. Art runs to first, laughing.  Pats

the first baseman's butt.  Gotcha.

ON GOLDEN BOY QUARTERBACK -- FRANK CUSHMAN

A line of NFL scouts watch a dazzling pass from a future star.

Cush turns into a closer shot.  He's a living magazine cover.

A YOUNG CHAMPIONSHIP GOLFER

eyeing a long but level putt.

The kid misses the shot, whips his club at his coach.

Hold on the kid, he's all youthful adrenalin, breathing hard.

Portrait of an intense young competitor.

INT. NFL OWNERS MEETING/PALM DESERT FOUR SEASONS -- DAY

A wall of new NFL merchandise.  Television monitors blink

with the latest endorsement films. Into frame moves JERRY

MAGUIRE, 35.  He walks briskly and smoothly, yellow legal

tablet in hand, at home in this lobby filled with Athletes

and Sports Team Owners.  We hear Herb Alpert's epic

instrumental, "The Lonely Bull."

INT. NFL OWNER'S MEETING LOBBY -- MINUTES LATER

Jerry sits in a red leather chair, across from an agitated

General Manager.  He cooly works out figures on a yellow

legal tablet.

Flash of photo

Anonymous Athlete holds up jersey, standing next to Team

Owner. Zoom in on someone's shirt-sleeve on left of frame.

ON ANONYMOUS NEWPORT BEACH BUILDING

INT. SMI CONFERENCE ROOM -- DAY

The SMI agents are a fierce, happy bunch.  They sit in a

carefully appointed conference room.

Sports photos and posters are framed on the walls.  The signs

of global marketing are omnipresent.  Each agent has a silver

tray containing soft drinks and a glass pitcher of water.

Through the glass window, we see a large office divided up

into many cubicles.

Near the end of the table sits Jerry Maguire.  The word

"millions" appears often and easily in his conversation.

Shot moves in.

INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING GARAGE -- HOUSTON -- DAY

An unmarked car pulls into the underground parking facility

of the Houston Police Department.  A cluster of chattering

media members move in on the car. ("Baja!!"  "Baja, over

here!!")  Back doors open, and out steps Jerry Maguire with

huge offensive lineman, BOBBY "BAJA" BRUNARD, 22.  He is

angry, and he is handcuffed.

Jerry whips in between Baja and the taunting media, blocking

him off and forcing him through the glass doors into the

police department.  Professional smile in place, Maguire

attempts spin.

In the background, we hear baja bellowing insults at the

press.

INT. ATLANTA RED CARPET ROOM -- ANOTHER DAY

Jerry now sits next to a towering white 27 year-old

basketball player with a bad haircut. He is CALVIN NACK.

They are signing a contract in the airport lounge. A little

BOY approaches the player with a basketball trading card.

Nack bends down with a kindly-looking face.

The Little Boy looks confused. As Calvin Nack turns to grab

an orange juice from a barmaid, Jerry smoothly dishes off a

business card to the little boy.

INT. HOSPITAL BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Hockey Player STEVE REMO, 33, is a big man in a small bed.

He is in traction, with concussion.  DOCTOR stands nearby,

shoots Jerry a look of concern.  Family is nearby.

Jerry nods encouragingly, presents his best "familiar" face.

EXT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY -- NIGHT

Remo's 14 year-old SON (JESSE) confronts Jerry outside the

hospital room. He's a hulking kid, a Pop Warner football

player himself. His voice is in the process of changing.

As he talks, Jerry's cellular phone rings in his bag.

The kid stares at Maguire.  It feels as if the kid is peering

into his soul... and all he sees is trash.

The kid turns and exits in disgust.  He leaves Jerry standing

in the hallway.  Devastated. Music.

EXT. RENTAL CAR SHUTTLE -- DAY

Jerry Maguire upset in a rental shuttle.  Passing through

frame. Music.  Phone still ringing.

INT. MIAMI HOTEL ROOM -- DAY

Jerry sleeps.

Jerry's eyes open.  Breathing strangely.  Trembling, he holds

onto the nightstand for grounding.

He gets up, takes a few gulps of air, walks to mini-bar.

Gathers some tiny ice cubes in his hand, smears them across

his face.  This feeling is new to him.

INT. MIAMI HOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT

Jerry types, a pot of coffee and tray of room service nearby.

we watch his face, alive now.

There is a direct line from the deepest part of him to the

words he's typing.  His fingers fly.  Even his eyes grow

moist.

SHOT OF DICKY FOX

As Jerry continues typing, his voice is excited now.

SHOT OF SENTENCE:  We must embrace what is still virginal

about our own enthusiasm, we must crack open the tightly

clenched fist and give back a little for the common good, we

must simply be the best versions of ourselves... that

goodness will be unbeatable and the money will appear.

He pauses, and wipes his eyes, still considering the sentence.

He deletes it.  And then -- zip -- he restores it and

continues on, boldly.

INT. KINKO'S COPIES -- NIGHT

Jerry in T-shirt stands proudly watching copies pumped out.

Wired college students, band guys, other Copy People of the

Night nearby.

Industrial, multi-pierced Kinko's copy guy examines the first

printed copy of the Mission Statement.  He nods approvingly,

taps his heart in tribute.  He slides a copy across the

counter, for Jerry's approval.

Jerry nods.  It's 3 AM, and this guy sounds and looks like a

prophet.  In fact, everyone in Kinko's at 3 AM does.

ON MEMOS

being stuffed into mail-slots.

INT. HOTEL ROOM -- MORNING

Jerry splashes water onto his face.  The sun is coming up.

He looks younger, lighter.

ON TV MOVIE  (JERRY WATCHING)

Suddenly, dramatic movie score.  It's Dana Andrews, showing

Gene Tierney the newspaper reports of her death in Laura.

("Someone was murdered in this room last night... any idea

who it was?")  Camera whips to Jerry, standing watching as he

packs.  A slight concern on his face.  He moves to the phone,

and dials with urgency.

INT. ELEVATOR -- DAY

INT. LOBBY -- DAY

The lobby is filled with SMI agents.  The blue Mission

Statement is in evidence everywhere.  Jerry inconspicuously

turns the corner, yearns to blend in.  It's impossible, the

recognition ripples through the lobby.  Underling agent BOB

SUGAR, 25, is the first to grab Maguire by the shoulders.

("Finally, someone said it!") Suddenly another agent begins

to clap, then reluctantly, another. Soon, the ovation rocks

the lobby.  (In a three-shot near the front desk, we see a 26

year-old female employee of SMI applauding with Mission

Statement in hand, her sleepy son at her side.)  Jerry

motions for them all to stop, but clearly he could listen

forever. It is a watershed moment in his life.

Swing off Maguire to find two agents standing clapping

enthusiastically near the elevator. One offers gum to the

other.

ON AIRPLANE WHEELS

folding up into a plane, as music and credits end.

INT. AIRPLANE/FIRST CLASS -- NIGHT

We move past a snoring businessman, onto tired but

adrenalized Jerry Maguire.  He sits in first-class, working

on his laptop, a pile of newspapers and magazines nearby.

The WOMAN PASSENGER next to him, 3oish, finishes up a spicy

phone conversation with her boyfriend.

Jerry continues to work, as his laptop now beeps.  Battery's

low.

Jerry shuts off his laptop and prepares for sleep.  Trying

not to listen.

She laughs seductively and hangs up.  She is still buzzed

from the conversation.  Jerry turns to her, surprising her.

She laughs, it's an infectious laugh -- two strangers

enjoying the good life -- as we DRIFT BACK three rows, past

the panel separating the cool comfort of first class from the

stuffy airless and uncomfortable world of coach.

We meet DOROTHY BOYD, 26.  A harried passenger on this bus in

the sky.  Her clothes are part-contemporary, part mother-

functional. She is never as composed or in control as she

wants to be. Right now she is devoted to the sneezing kid in

the wrinkled white-shirt sitting next to her.  It is RAY, her

five-year old son.  Dorothy is covered in toys and books.

Stuffed into the side pocket is Jerry's Mission Statement.

The easy laughter from three rows ahead washes over her like

cold water, as she rings again for a Flight Attendant.  The

overworked ATTENDANT arrives, pissed, snapping off the bell.

The Attendant offers a bundle of soggy cocktail napkins and

is about to exit as Ray makes a gagging noise.  He's about to

get sick. Both women reach for an airsick bag, and get it to

his mouth just in time. Their faces are now inches apart.

The Attendant now exits helpfully with the bag.

Dorothy, irritated, leans out into the aisle to look for the

heads that belong to these voices.

BACK TO JERRY AND WOMAN

He nods, as he reaches up to shut off the light.  Politely

stifles another yawn.  He shuts his eyes, settles into sleep.

Bobbi leans into his darkness.

INT.  FIRST CLASS SEATS -- LATER

Bobbi is intense now, unburdening, as tired Jerry listens

like a priest.

Maguire fights another yawn.

BACK TO DOROTHY

Her sleeping son now silent, she can't help but listen.

BACK TO JERRY -- LATER

BACK TO DOROTHY

She is now craning out into the aisle to hear this story.

The plane is now quieter.  She listens to the easy sound of

Jerry discussing his charmed life.

He sneezes, three big ones in a row.  She hands him more

kleenex, riveted on the story.  And listens.

Dorothy laughs to herself, somewhat derisively.  She tries to

share the laugh with her son, who stares at her.

BACK TO JERRY -- LATER

BACK TO DOROTHY

She takes one of her son's kleenex sheets, as an elegant

Flight Attendant shuts the curtain to first class. Dorothy

blows her nose, moved against her will.

She pulls out the Mission Statement,  aware that she's been

listening to its author.  She opens it and begins to read.

INT. LAX AIRPORT TERMINAL -- MORNING

Jerry Maguire exits the plane a few steps behind Bobbi Fallon.

Bobbi scans the crowd. She spots Monkeyface, large and burly

in tiger-print sweats.  He looks like Mickey Dolenz.  He

holds flowers.

Jerry's face falls.  Bobbi Fallon moves into the embrace,

faking it.  Jerry moves ahead, turning back to see the doomed

couple. Melancholy now, he continues forward through the

crowded airport and the expectant faces of those waiting for

loved ones.  Music.

INT. LUGGAGE AREA -- MORNING

Dorothy looks through the rubber flaps of the luggage

conveyor belt.  She clutches a cup of coffee.  In the

background, other SMI agents' grab their bags and exit.

Maguire enters picture, joining her as she looks into the

dark depths behind the flaps.

Over her shoulder, Maguire sees Ray rounding the corner,

riding the luggage conveyor belt like Washington crossing the

Delaware.

Dorothy turns, is greatly relieved to see Ray, and snatches

him off the belt.  She bends down into his face.  She speaks

softly but intensely, with no frills.

She rises, shifting back to being a somewhat relaxed young

woman of 26.  It's a transition she makes, oh, 500 times a

day.

Jerry pauses just a moment, but it's long enough.  Dorothy

freezes.

Jerry takes off.

He stops.  Turns.  She flashes the well-thumbed copy in her

purse. Jerry takes a step closer, interested and flattered.

Ray has taken Jerry's free hand, and begun swinging on him.

Jerry looks slightly edgy at the naked vulnerability of his

words.

Jerry looks more nervous, as Ray has now taken his mother's

hand. He is now swinging on both of them.

Now Jerry looks concerned, as Ray continues swinging happily.

Jerry lets Ray down easy.  The kid is a little disappointed.

But Maguire bows, always courtly, and exits to get his bag.

He then realizes something amiss and returns quickly, pulling

Ray's hand up again and completing the swing.

Ray is now happy, in love even, as Jerry exits.  Dorothy

laughs, as her sister arrives. LAUREL BOYD is 36. No make-up,

no bullshit. Laurel has a pin on her sweater, which catches

on dorothy's shirt as they hug.

Dorothy returns to the world of motherhood, bending down,

gathering Ray's toys.  She wipes at Ray's hair.

("Don't put food in your hair.")   She is surprised that

she's a little jazzed from her encounter with Jerry Maguire.

She can't help but look back at Jerry, who catches her

looking.   He salutes her, with mock circumstance.  She

returns it with a guilty smile.  He disappears, and she finds

herself oddly short of breath.

INT. AVERY'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

AVERY BISHOR, 29, makes love to Jerry Maguire at fever pitch.

They are standing on the bed, which is in the corner.

Nearby, a large and sleepy German Shepard yawns.

The dog snaps awake, a little shook.  Avery suddenly yanks

away. Breathing hard, she just looks at Jerry. Sex is a very

serious business with Avery.

She skips off like a colt.  Jerry digests what he's just been

told.

Jerry rubs his face, as he does often when processing complex

information.

Avery returns.  Her robo body, half-lit now in the hallway,

is a glorious life-long project.

She makes a pissed-off sound.  She then walks over, taking

his shoulders and bending them forward.  She is an expert at

body manipulation, loosening him as she talks.

INT. FANCY HOTEL SUITE -- NIGHT

Jerry enters the hotel suite and over-acts surprise.  He

falls down, clutching his heart, feigning an attack. He looks

around for a bigger reaction than he actually gets.

THE FILM -- SHOWN ON BIG-SCREEN T.V.

It is hosted by MICHAEL JORDAN.

Tepid laughs, as many of the agents turn and grab furtive

looks at Maguire, who stands at the back of the room with his

friend BILL DOOLER.  Dooler, husky, 30, looks like a beatnik

on steroids.

They are joined by unctuous agent Bob Sugar.  Sugar is a

Maguire wannabee.  Puts an arm on Jerry's shoulder.

Sugar moves on, cheerfully.

(The movie, which plays simultaneously with the conversation,

is a Hi-8 confessional of Jerry's former girlfriends.

MICHAEL JORDAN is cut into this, nodding, as if he were

actually interviewing.  The effect is funny, but the

confessions are brutally honest.  There is The One He Was Too

Good For, The One He Wasn't Good Enough For ("He hated being

alone.") The Still in Love Girlfriend, The Punk Rock

girlfriend ("Sports makes me ill"), The Now Married With Kids

Girlfriend, The Cynical Girlfriend ("Beneath the cute

exterior, more cute exterior.") The Purely Sexual Girlfriend,

The Brainy Girlfriend, ("Great at friendship, bad at

intimacy") and even the Girlfriend Who Does A Great Jerry

Imitation (rubbing her face, she does a flawless Jerry-on-his-

way-to-the-airport).  All seem to agree on some basic points

(and if necessary maybe Jordan narrates the following

information to underscore it.)  Jerry always has a

girlfriend, and many met him on the first day he'd broken up

with the last one.  The relationship always competes with his

job, and the job always wins.  The final confrontation

happens somewhere around the 18-month mark. Sequence ends

with Avery in character, wielding a blowtorch, threatening to

burn all these old phone numbers.)

Jerry nods, takes a swig of beer.  He knows the response is

little more than polite.  None of the other agents can keep

eye contact with him.  Dooler is right.  On the screen, the

finale features a good-humored collage of Jerry photos, cut

to music.

INT. SMI OFFICE -- DAY

Elevator doors open.  Maguire is now paranoid.  He walks

through the buzzing SMI headquarters, heading for his corner

office.  He is like an FBI man searching treetops and corners

for the Gunman. Everywhere he looks is a potential Grassy

Knoll.

He passes Fellow Agents, always smiling, giving a word of

encouragement to an Agent having an emotional hallway

conversation with an Athlete, even bends down to check the

sheet of slides being approved by a very large but seated

Basketball Player. Moving forward. There is trouble in the

air, but only he seems to sense it.  He turns corner and is

met by assistant WENDY, who hands him a long list of calls.

The sheet flaps against his leg as she moves with him toward

his back office.

INT. JERRY MAGUIRE'S OFFICE -- DAY

Jerry enters his corner office overlooking both the shiny

waters of Newport Beach and a large mall parking lot. Already

standing, reading the mail on his desk is lively MARCEE

TIDWELL, 25. African-American, gorgeous, a heat-seeking

smartbomb.  She is also five months pregnant.

Across the room, 4 year-old menace TYSON ceases trying to pry

a plexiglass case off the wall.

Tyson just stares at Jerry.  Jerry has little luck with kids.

He gives Marcee a quick peck and heads for the fridge.  He

grabs a two-pint bottle of orange Gatorade -- another

habit -- and sits down at his desk.  He slips into crisis

mode like an old shirt.

--The door opens, Bob Sugar pokes his head in.

Sugar exits.  Marcee resumes at the exact point, at the exact

level of intensity.

Jerry finds himself admiring her drive, and she commands the

best in him.  The desk buzzes, and Jerry ignores it.

She smiles.

He climbs up on the edge of his sofa, and reaches for the

poster with his hanging device. True to Marcee's complaint,

the poster hangs in the upper Siberian region of his wall.

ON THE POSTER -- CLOSE

It is the kind of poster that is strictly the domain of

second-tier players. Commanding wide-receiver ROD TIDWELL,

27, stands shirtless, hands on hips, looking vaguelyl

uncomfortable. Emplazoned above his head: IN ROD WE TRUST.

Elsewhere in the room, we hear the inevitable crash

("Tyson!").

EXT. CRONIN'S GRILL -- AFTERNOON

Crowded outdoor restaurant in the business district. Jerry

sits down opposite Bob Sugar, still making a few notes.

For a long moment there is only silence.  They study each

other. These are two smart boys, each one anticipating the

other's next three or four moves.

Suddenly he's flushed, a little embarrassed.

In a back room, the waiters are singing the restaurant's

"Birthday Song" to someone else. Jerry is dying.

Jerry's mouth opens to finish his sentence, but before he can

speak, Sugar continues.

Quietly, Maguire finishes the sentence he started earlier.

Maguire reaches for water.  The sound of the ice cubes

jangling is suddenly very loud to him. He is drowning.

Jerry fights the desire to use his fists.  Hangs onto the

table. He's starting to freak out now. Trying to calm down.

Sugar's mouth keeps moving, but we hear the music in Jerry's

mind.  Rising percussive music.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

Jerry tries to move briskly down the street, through the

lunchtime businessmen traffic. Back to the office.

INT. CRONIN'S -- DAY

Sugar dines alone now.  Casually whips out a portable phone.

INT. SMI ELEVATOR -- DAY

Jerry in the elevator, eyes wide, mind racing.  Dorothy Boyd

sees him, raises a hand to say hello.  Decides this is not a

good time.

INT. SMI OFFICE -- DAY

Close on Maguire as he moves through the office, heading to

the back office.  Music

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY

Maguire rolls the fax machine over to his desk.  He takes a

breath, and begins to go to work. From within his bottom

drawer, he withdraws a Powerbook.  Then from another drawer,

a phone book. And then from his inner jacket pocket, a third

smaller phone book. They are lined in front of him now, as he

dials.

INT. CUSHMAN HOME/ODESSA -- DAY

Frank "Cush" Cushman picks up the phone.  Today, the young

football God wears a yellow scarf on his head. He's still

playing NBA Jam on his Gameboy' as he talks.

EXT. CRONIN'S -- DAY

Sugar at the table.  Chameleon-like, he adopts the

personality of whomever he talks to.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY

Maguire on the telephone, fighting hard, as he feeds a fax

into the machine at the same time.

As he talks, he takes a stack of his Mission Statements, once

proudly set on his desk, and sentences them to the bottom

drawer.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

Sugar strolls back to the office, talking on the portable.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY

Maguire feeds a fax, types another fax on his Powerbook, all

while he talks quickly on the phone.

INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DAY

Several other agents working the cause behind Sugar, who

breezes through the calls.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY

Jerry on the toilet.  Not a minute to spare.

INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DAY

INT. SMI OFFICE -- DAY

Dorothy walks the center hallway with some contracts.  To the

right and left of her are the phones are ringing.

Something is amiss. She stops at the desk of fellow Accounts

Exec CLEO, 32.

Dorothy groans softly, as she lowers herself into her seat.

She is strangely affected by the news. She scoots back on her

roller chair, and looks down the hallway to Maguire's office

door.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY

The pace has accelerated.

INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DAY

Sugar talks faster.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY

Jerry talks faster than sugar.

INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DAY

Sugar talks faster than Jerry.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DAY

Jerry shows signs of tiring.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM -- DAY

KATHY SANDERS, 22 year-old figure skater, sits on a couch.

Nearby are cardboard stand-ups, souvenirs of past

endorsements. Also, the famous gold-medal shot from the

Olympics. Kathy's adoring Mom and Dad sit next to her,

listening in on the extension.  The Mission Statement is

folded open on Dad's lap.  Kathy chokes on every other word,

such is her anguish.

There is a click on the line.  She is pained and outraged.

She clicks the phone once. Her voice is suddenly cheery.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE

She instantly starts "crying" again.

INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DUSK

Sugar crosses off another name on his list.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- DUSK

Jerry on the phone.  It's getting harder to crank it up.

INT. TIDWELL KITCHEN/HOUSE -- DAY

ROD TIDWELL, 27, begins this conversation in the kitchen.  He

is a powerful physical presence, and he holds a hot new

cellular phone. He fixes young son Tyson a bowl of cereal as

he talks.  In the background, monitoring the crisis is Marcee

Tidwell.

INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- SAME TIME

Sugar works off a wristwatch.  He spends no longer than three

minutes on each call.

He covers the phone, as another agent hands him a cellular

with another call on it.

Back to the other call.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE

Jerry is still on the same Tidwell call.  Looking at his

watch.

INT. TIDWELL HALLWAY -- NIGHT

Tidwell walks down the hallway, past clippings and citations

from his career. Marcee follows, always listening.

We meet the messy-haired and slightly overweight brother of

Tidwell, TEE PEE, 24.  Tee Pee, who lives free of charge in

Rod's house, is a nakedly jealous and more political version

of his brother.  He says into the phone:

Tidwell takes the phone back, and continues through the

house, with Tee Pee now following the procession of family

monitoring the important call.

Jerry looks at his watch.  Doomed.

INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- NIGHT

Sugar has three phones going.

Tidwell enters bedroom.  Marcee, Tyson and Tee Pee in tow.

The lights have gone down in the city, and he hasn't had a

chance to turn his own light on.  He sits in the oncoming

darkness, watching the blinking white lights on the phone

bank on the desk.

Tidwell hangs up.  Feeling good about the decision, he enters

his closet and adds today's shoes to an enormous shoe

collection. Nearby, Tee Pee shakes his head.

INT. SUGAR'S OFFICE -- DAY

Sugar crosses the last call off his sheet, and throws himself

on the sofa.  He lands in reclining mode with a soft pooof.

The younger turks watch their new leader.  Victory is his.

INT. JERRY'S OFFICE -- NIGHT

Jerry stands at the door, holding some belongings.  He looks

back and symbolically flips the light switch off.

Unfortunately he hasn't realized the lights are already off.

So, in his final gesture, surprising himself, he has weirdly

turned the lights on.

EXT. CORNER OFFICE -- NIGHT

Bam.  Jerry's door opens.  He exits his office with box.  He

is now in a state of advancing melancholy, slightly unhinged.

Many of the other agents now try not to watch him leaving.

Jerry goes to a water dispenser, calming himself, and fills

a small Dixie cup.  Downs it and fills it again, rubbing his

face..

ON DOROTHY -- WATCHING

from her cubicle.

He notices the fish tank nearby. He attemps to be profound.

And now Jerry feels bravado, mixed with a wave of anger.

Another cup of water as he finds power.

He begins dipping into the tank, grabbing the one exotic fish

that failed to escape his cup. It's a fire-tailed Peruvian

beauty.  He grabs a baggie from an assistant's desk, shakes

out some crumbs, and dumps the fish inside.

Nearby, a Xerox Repair Guy watches the human train wreck.

But clearly even Flipper is not happy with the new

arrangement. Panicked, he whips around the small baggie.

Silence, someone coughs, as agents and office personnel look

on with equal parts pity and embarrassment. Jerry downs

another small cup of water. His lid is blowing off with each

second.

Assistant Wendy looks at Maguire.  Painfully polite:

Jerry absorbs the blow, and takes the keys from the top of

her desk.  She can't look at him.  Jerry stands alone, the

blue Mission Statement on Wendy's desk sits accusingly in

frame.  There is only silence now, the loudest kind.

ON DOROTHY

She looks around.  Doesn't anybody believe in the very thing

they were applauding three days ago?  She has an odd

reaction, a muscle twitch of the soul.   Before she knows it,

she stands boldly, unfortunately knocking a cup of coffee

onto herself in the process.

She dabs at her pants.  Next to her, Cleo looks on sadly.

ON JERRY

halfway across the office.

She gathers her things, increasingly aware of what she's done.

He walks to Dorothy, and together they exit down the hallway

corridor, past the framed posters and awards.

WIDE-SHOT

rising over the huge office.  For the first time, we see the

full expanse of the huge SMI headquarters.  And down in the

corner of the frame, two small figures leave carrying boxes.

A beat of silence, then noise returns to its normal

commercial roar.  A couple of fleas have been swatted off the

carcass of an immense beast.

INT. ELEVATOR -- NIGHT

The tragic-sounding beep of the elevator passing floors.

Jerry Maguire stands with Dorothy, both still charged with

adrenalin. And then the first pangs of dread. There is

silence.  The elevator stops.  A young, amorous Couple

enters.  Both are about 24, and the Guy presses a number five

flights down.  In a moment, we realize they are deaf.  They

sign to each other, murmuring noises of love. And then the

Guy signs something, obviously powerful, because the Girl

emits a delighted gasp, as does Dorothy.  The Couple are

truly in their own world.  They kiss before exiting on their

floor.  And suddenly the elevator seems empty without them.

They continue on in silence.

INT. BUILDING LOBBY -- NIGHT

Jerry and Dorothy pass through another office's party.  Loud

music. It's a pre-Easter party thrown for the building

employees and their children.  Jerry and Dorothy squeeze

through with boxes and fish.

EXT. SMI PARKING LOT -- NIGHT

Jerry and Dorothy walk to their cars.  Music in distance.

He spaces out for a moment.  Awkwardly, she touches him

briefly.

They arrive at her red Camry.  She writes her number on the

back of a business card.

She climbs into her car, rolls down the window.

She starts the engine.

She salutes him as she drives off.  His own move, played back

to him.  Camera moves away from Jerry, as he stands alone in

the parking lot.  Salutes her in return.  Herb Alpert.  "The

Lonely Bull." Stripped of power, his once mighty theme now

seems puny.

EXT. DOROTHY'S HOME -- NIGHT

Lights glow inside this small-but-cozy home on a side street

in Manhattan Beach. Windows open.  The sound of women's

voices.

INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

A living room filled with ten earnest, talkative Divorced

Women. This is their talk group.  We meet JAN, 30, who speaks

shyly, thoughtfully, covering her braces often as she speaks.

She holds a too-full glass of red wine.  (Much of the talk in

this Women's Group will be improved by our cast of actresses)

The other nine women nod with deep understanding.

INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Dorothy does the dishes.  Across the room, Laurel has her

nightly cigarette, blowing smoke out the window.  She is a no-

frills woman. She has some time ago shut off those aspects of

her life spent pursuing the opposite sex.  They are in mid-

argument.

They talk over each other arguing for a moment and then:

Dorothy dries her hands, flicking in a hurry.

She exits in a hurry, as Laurel throws her cigarette into the

garbage disposal.  She has a hard time saying this, so she

says it so nobody can hear:

INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Ray dreams sweetly in the middle of this rockbed of Women's

Woes. Dorothy strokes his head, as she plucks him up.  In

frame another woman, ALICE, 50, speaks passionately to the

group.

Dorothy exits, protectively stroking her son's head.

INT. HALLWAY-- NIGHT

She stops for a moment, little boy in her hands.  The

enormity of the day arrives with a thud.

INT. JERRY'S CONDO -- NIGHT

Jerry is quickly packing for a road trip.  Avery looks on.

They are both in a manic state.

Jerry stops, turns.  The way she says "loser" is the most

elegant of disses. She wraps her lips around it like a cheap

hot dog.

Jerry zips his brown travel bag shut.  He is packed and ready.

Avery takes his bag, heads for the door.

Jerry takes a breath, exits.  Music.

AIRPLANE WHEELS

folding up.  Music continues.

INT. RENT-A-CAR -- MORNING

Jerry drives the bumpiest Texas backroad ever.

Music continues.

EXT. CUSHMAN DOOR -- DAY

Jerry exits car.  Adjusts the jacket.  Takes the tie off too,

returns to the car and tosses it inside.  He walks to the

front door with purpose.  Suddenly an intercom crackles,

jolting him with a booming and cheerful voice:

Jerry spots the small electronic camera pointed at him from

the upper-corner of this rustic home.  The door buzzes.

INT. CUSHMAN HALLWAY/DEN -- DAY

Jerry  follows the voice down a hallway  loaded with Cush

memorabilia.  Righteous indignation building.

He moves into the den, finding MATT CUSHMAN, 40, who stands

at the living room bar. Two framed game jerseys on the wall.

A large draped American flag above the bar.  He is a J. Crew

cowboy.

Maguire takes a breath, and sharply begins his pitch.

On pure instinct, he hugs Matt Cushman.  The move surprises

them both.  And somewhere out of nowhere, come a few

surprising tears of relief.  He has been spared.

Matt laughs, as Cush lopes in from the kitchen.  Little

brother KEITH, 14, enters with him.

INT. DEN -- LATER DAY -- HANDHELD

Cush, Matt and Jerry brainstorm around the ceremonial "wagon-

wheel table" where decisions are made in this house.  Jerry

is giddy, charged up, a part of the human race again.

Jerry toasts Matt with a bloody beer.  A good day.

INT. RENT-A-CAR/TEXAS -- DAY

Jerry drives back on the same bumpy road.  On the radio, it's

the Rolling Stones.  He wants to sing along.  He thinks he

knows the words, but...

He realizes he doesn't know the words at all. He switches

channels. Finds a Rush song, with ornate lyrics.  No one will

ever know what the words are.  He switches again and finds

"Let's Groove Tonight" by Earth, Wind and Fire. Excellent.

He begins singing nonsense noises, passionately.  Switches

again.  All he wants is to sing along with a song he knows.

Finally he finds Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers' "Refugee."

He drives through the countryside, singing the call and

response of the song, like a happy idiot.

INT. DALLAS/FT. WORTH AIRPORT -- DAY

Jerry turns into shot.  He's on the pay-phone.  He's jacked.

INT. DOROTHY/LAUREL'S HOUSE -- DAY

Dorothy is at her home work desk.  Curious and nervous about

the new arrangement.

Through the back kitchen door comes CHAD THE NANNY, 29, red

hair cropped above the ear. Baggy overalls.  Slipping through

life with little turbulence.  He's with Ray, who holds pieces

of wood and a hammer.

Chad now notices the slight excited tone in her demeanor.  He

sits down nearby and listens to her talk to Maguire.

She flips the call record from yesterday --150 calls -- to

today, which is blank.

She reaches over Ray to get to her laptop and buzzes through

a list of phone numbers.  Jerry can't help but share the qood

news:

She examines her own skin with surprise.

Oddly, the phrase affects her physically.

She hangs up, and looks over to Laurel and Chad. Both of them

stare at her.

Chad looks at her, something is different about Dorothy.

Laurel walks away, sharing a look with Chad.

INT. DALLAS AIRPORT -- DAY

Jerry is now teeming with energy, professional and sexual.

INT. ATLANTA HOTEL SUITE -- DAY

Avery in mid-conference with four other NFL men in background.

It is the victory call of the competitive girl, and she falls

back into a chair, kicking her expensive shoes onto the bed.

In the b.g. we see the hungry look of her male co-workers.

Part of them lusts after her.  The larger part knows she

would demolish them, and pick her teeth with their bones.

He hangs up, staring at the phone. In the room with Avery,

the co-workers look at each other. She is far, far out of

their league.

INT. DOROTHY'S CAR -- LATER MORNING -- DRIVING

Dorothy Boyd speeds Jerry to the airport, the electricity

fills the car. On the radio, a sports station debates the

future of Cushman. as Jerry whips through a stack of sports

pages.

Dorothy continues, business on her mind.

Jerry bounces against the imaginary balloon.  Ray is

delighted by Jerry.   Dorothy notes that he's great with her

son.  She pats Jerry on the shoulder.  Her hand lingers

perhaps a millisecond too long.  She pulls away quickly,

always feeling on the edge or embarrassing herself around

this guy.

Jerry nods and exits.  They watch as Jerry inches into the

crowded airport.  Into frame, obscuring their view of Jerry,

enters another Couple, who embrace each other and their small

girl.   It's a genuinely sweet goodbye, and we linger on

Dorothy and Ray who both watch with private fantasies of the

goodbye they didn't get. Mother and son look at each other,

communicating volumes. They pull back into traffic.

INT. DALLAS AIRPORT -- DAY

Jerry struggles through the Dallas airport, is the last, of

his party to arrive at the B gate in Dallas.  Avery, tall and

cool in plaid skirt and shades, is in combat mode.   Nearby,

Cush is surrounded by fans and fawning Airline Employees.

("Where do you think you're gonna end up, Cush?"  "You gonna

be rich, dude!") Tidwell looks jealous and ingnored as he

leans against the airline counter, unnoticed.  A lone kid

approaches Tidwell.

Kid leaves disappointed. Tidwell sinks lower. Doesn't anyone

know his stardom, his essence, his power?

INT. AIRPLANE -- DAY

Jerry sits next to Cushman, who is reading Bukowski's Notes

of a Dirty Old Man.  Across the aisle is Tidwell, who sits

next to Avery.  They are a small family, and Jerry feels at

home with his operation.  Cush looks up suddenly.

Jerry shares a look with Avery, who is on the other side of

Cush. Her stockings swish as she crosses her legs.

The two men have now totally confused each other. Tidwell

leans across the aisle to Cush, attempting comraderie.

Cush looks up.  Compliments blow off him like a summer breeze.

Tidwell waits for a compliment of his own, but Cush doesn't

offer one.  He returns to the book.  Tidwell feels slighted.

Cush throws his book away, ready for anything, as Tidwell

rises. Nearby passengers begin to panic.

Jerry throws himself in front of Cushman.

Beat. Jerry wonders if he's pushed his mealtickets around too

much.

Tidwell reaches over, he and Cush exchange a fingertips five.

Briefly, the two clients bond. Past Tidwell, Avery smiles

engagingly at Jerry.  He handled the situation well.  She

crosses her legs, stockings swishing.  The workplace excites

her.

EXT. MARRIOTT MARQUIS -- NIGHT

The headquarters for the NFL draft is buzzing with activity.

Limo doors open and out pours Maguire and company.  Media

lights flick on, bathing Cush.  Reporters chatter. ("Is it

San Diego or Denver, Cush?N  "Cush!")  Fans at the outskirts

are calling out to the young star ("Go get the big chi-ching,

Cush!") Avery smoothly pulls ESPN into the front position.

Telegenic Cush shrugs and smiles. ("I'll either surf or

ski.")  Jerry admires his fiancee.  There is nothing more

attractive than a person burningly efficient at their job.

Shot drifts off this media bubble to find Tidwell watching at

the outskirts.  He turns and exits unnoticed.

INT. GIFT SHOP -- NIGHT -- LATER

Tidwell hides out in the gift shop, thumbing through

magazines. The chip on his shoulder grows by the minute.

Elsewhere in the gift shop, he sees the very real and

emotional scene of a young athlete and his mother.  Both wear

self-promoting colorful homemade t-shirts with the young

athlete's face on it.  Something about them, their pure

enthusiasm, rubs Tidwell in an odd way.  He almost cries, for

himself, for humanity, as Jerry enters.  Tidwell is

embarrassed to have been caught in this misty state.

In a look, Jerry sizes up the situation.  With a hand on

Tidwell's large shoulder, he smoothly pumps up the big man's

ego.

He is privately thrilled, but offers only:

We hear the ripping guitar explosion of The Who's "Magic Bus"

from Live at Leeds.

INT. MARRIOTT LOBBY -- NIGHT

Maguire and Tidwell move through the brightly-lit lobby, past

the reporters, the competing agents, the team

representatives, the already blasted Jets fans, past even a

Nike crew filming an NFL spot in the lobby.  Portable phones

everywhere, in every hand.

There is a heavy white media light bathing everything -- as

if life had become a t.v. show, and everything within it

concerned making other t.v. shows.  Jerry works hard,

introduces Tidwell around. And Tidwell is natural, polite and

charming, as they move through the pre-draft crowd.  He does

not sit down.  Music continues.

INT. MARRIOTT BAR -- DAY

Tough red-headed beat reporter PATRICIA LOGAN watches Maguire

and Tidwell from the opposite corner.

INT. ARIZONA CARDINALS WAR ROOM PHOENIX) -- NIGHT

Arizona General Manager DENNIS WILBURN, 48, is on the phone

here in the command center for the Arizona Cardinals.  All

around him, we see the boards and graphs for their upcoming

draft selections.

Wilburn looks concerned.

INT. MARRIOTT ESCALATOR -- NIGHT

Jerry and Tidwell rise triumphantly to the mezzanine level

above the bright-white lobby.  Maguire looks down at the

scene.  He breathes in the commotion.  In another twelve

hours, he will be at the very epicenter with Cushman.

Jerry doesn't respond.  Down in the lobby, Jerry catches a

glimpse of a familiar-looking agent.  It's Sugar. Jerry is

consumed with a thousand other thoughts, but Tidwell

continues talking.

Jerry turns to Tidwell, finally focusing totally on him.

Jerry starts to exit.

Tidwell nods deeply, respectfully.

Tidwell moves off, still feeling good about the walk.  A

small pack of diehard Jets fans pass, looking for autographs.

INT. CUSH'S SUITE -- NIGHT

We glide into Frank Cushman's suite overlooking Times Square.

It's filled with NFL swag -- free t-shirts, athletic bags,

sweatpants, and more.  Half-finished room service food

abounds.  Matt, Keith and Cush's stylish college girlfriend

ANNE-LOUISE mill about the room, basking in the glow of the

man of the moment.  Cush, who holds a guitar in his lap,

wears the odd combination of a Nirvana t-shirt and a NFL

jacket.  He signs for more room service and continues

strumming the only song he knows on guitar, Cobain's

"Something In The Way."  Jerry enters on a rush of adrenalin.

Waiter spots a very tall stack of new Nikes by the door.

It's a great line, and the room breaks up.  This is charisma,

the future of the NFL.  Waiter exits, as Cush continues

strumming. And now Jerry speaks, importantly.

Cush turns to his curiously ambivalent father, who walks to

the window and looks out at the big Jumbotron with Keith.

Anne-Louise whistles loudly.  She is instantly embarrassed,

and puts a hand up.  Sorry.  In the next room, the phone is

ringing.

Jerry holds up a finger -- watch me.  Jerry picks up the

ringing phone. He offers a near-perfect imitation.

Suddenly, everyone is, laughing.  The room lightens.

INT. BOB SUGAR'S HOTEL ROOM -- DAY

Bob Sugar talks on his hotel phone.

Sugar hangs up.

Jerry hangs up.  The room is still laughing.  His head is

spinning.

More laughs. Jerry sits across from Matt, reeling quietly. He

speaks casually, directly.

He pulls out a yellow legal tablet.  He scribbles a few

lines, as Matt looks increasingly nervous.

More silence.

Jerry touches the coffee table.  Calms himself.

Another rough silence is broken by little brother Keith.

Shot moves in on Jerry.

Jerry moans. Silently, he rises and begins to gather his

things. Cush hangs on to his guitar.

Jerry takes a breath before he exits. He surveys the room,

settling on Cush.  Visible behind Maguire is Times Square, in

all it's neon logo glory.

Flushed and embarrassed, he exits.  We hang a beat on the

silent Cushman hotel livingroom, as Cush now continues on

guitar.

INT. LOBBY -- NIGHT

Jerry exits elevator dazed, at full trot.  The Marriott lobby

is packed.  He is looking for Avery.  Beat reporter Patricia

Logan reappears.  She relishes asking brutal questions,

innocently.

INT. BALLROOM -- NIGHT

Jerry enters the grand ballroom, looking for Avery.

Endorsement placards in evidence everywhere.  NFL reps and

media workers move tables and work out camera and seating

arrangements.  Elevated in a open ESPN booth six feet off the

ground, host Chris Berman records voice-overs for tomorrow's

draft.  Fans heckle him by singing the ESPN theme.  He rolls

with it, expertly.  Jerry spots Avery across the empty

ballroom, moving fast, passing out media packets on the empty

tables.

INT. ADJACENT BUFFET ROOM -- NIGHT

Jerry finally catches up with Avery in the empty side-room.

She keeps moving, adding an extra snap to the packets.

She is furious with his question.  Doesn't he know?

She stops.  Walks to him, framed by a bank of t.v. monitors.

She turns and exits again.  He follows.

She stops, slaps down another media packet.  Blows a

troublesome piece of hair out of her face.

Jerry looks at his fiancee.  Standing here, watching Avery

coldly clasping her media packs to her chest, she looks

different to him.

She knows what's coming.  She moves fast to avoid him.

She exits back into the main ballroom.  For a moment, she

stops. They face off.  This is it.  They are quickly

interrupted by overweight, talk-show voiced CURTIS WEINTRAUB,

45.

Neither look at him, they remain fixed on each other.  Curtis

gets a whiff of what he walked into.

She continues moving into the next room.

She can barely believe it.  She blinks.

She takes a breath.  It sinks in.  From somewhere, the small

voice of her vulnerability.

She gets an odd look, shaking her head.  Starts to step away,

then thinks better of it.  She WALLOPS him in the face with

the back of her hand.  Jerry stands like a woozy boxer. She

hits him again with a fist, then again in the chest.  He

sinks to the floor, sagging. backwards.  She straddles him,

addresses him fully, right in his bruised face.

INT. JFK AIRPORT -- NEXT MORNING

Jerry moves through the crowded airport with Rod Tidwell.

Both wear sunglasses.

ON TV MONITOR -- ROY FIRESTONE

is leaning forward, expressively, talking with a weepy

athlete.

INT. RED CARPET LOUNGE -- DAY

Tidwell watches next to Jerry, as they wait for the flight.

Jerry nurses a stiff drink.

Tidwell looks at Jerry, impassive.

INT. AIRPLANE -- LATER DAY

They sit together. Jerry holds another drink.

He looks straight ahead, at the airphone in front of him.

EXT. PORCH -- NIGHT

Dorothy finds Laurel on their small porch.  There is only

room for a miniature garden and one comfortable seat. Laurel

sits in it.

Dorothy exits.  Laurel shakes her head, calls to next room.

INT. RAY'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Dorothy puts Ray to bed.

She kisses the corner of his forehead, rising up into the

mirror.

She checks her look, in spite of herself. Visible on the wall

above Ray's bed, is her ex-husband's photo. Music.

INT. CAB -- NIGHT

Jerry in back of a cab, wearing sunglasses, three drinks

later, post-flight, rolling with anything.

The cab turns onto a very small street.  Cars parked on both

sides. Down the street, another pair of headlights.

Jerry's cab refuses to give in, in fact he floors it.  Same

with the oncoming car.

EXT. DOROTHY'S FRONT PORCH -- NIGHT

Door opens to reveal Jerry Maguire with brown bag, shoulder

hang-up bag, disheveled hair and sunglasses.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Jerry enters, as Dorothy rounds the corner.

The lights are low and his glasses are very dark.

He ducks the lamp, barely. Laurel exits through his shot,

miming "drinking" behind his back. Jerry takes off his

glasses, revealing a welt and a cut below his eye.

Dorothy's entire body chemistry changes in ways she doesn't

quite understand.

Dorothy laughs.  He looks at her strangely.  Suddenly she

feels very nervous, as he sets down his bags.

She moves to the kitchen door.  She is about to exit, when

Jerry begins to unburden.

She turns, not quite sure what his point is.  She waits

politely for Jerry to finish before exiting into the kitchen.

He rubs his face.  She looks at him, and the situation

slightly overwhems her. Here he is, wide-open, ripe for the

taking.

INT. KITCHEN

Laurel smokes a cigarette and blows it out the window.

Dorothy goes for the refrigerator, finds a couple beers.

Dorothy turns quickly and the beer, sisters and chicken

collide in the small kitchen.  Dorothy deftly catches the

food in her t-shirt, and dumps it back onto the plate.  But

her shirt is now stained. She starts to quietly implode, and

Laurel takes command.  They know each other well.

They exit to nearby laundry room.

EXT. HOUSE/WINDOW OUTSIDE LAUNDRY ROOM -- NIGHT

Now camera starts to move around the house, from this window

showing the two sisters in the laundry room, to the living

room where Jerry sits alone.  We see Ray wander into the room

and stare at Jerry.

INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Jerry, who is playing with a kaleidoscope on the table, looks

up to see Ray.

INT. LAUNDRY ROOM -- SAME TIME

She holds up two tops.  One is sexier with a dipped down

front. The other is striped, cute, functional.

She grabs the sexier top, and puts it on.

INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Jerry and Ray have a great conversation, playing tug with a

piece of rope.

Ray nods vigorously.

Ray loves this guy.  He pats Jerry's knee.

Ray looks at Jerry's hands.

Ray hugs Jerry and exits.  Jerry sits contemplating the kid

for a moment.  The door swings open and a harried Dorothy

appears in the sexier top, but with a distinctly less sexy

attitude, and a tray.

And we should keep our voices down a little.  I have a little

boy asleep.

Jerry tries to twist open the beer, ripping at his palm. It's

not a twist-off.  She hands him an opener.  He opens it,

inelegantly.

She watches the drunken man, who drinks. Then coughs a

little. Then stands.

He gets up, woozy, but loose.  Powerfully:

His confidence nicely fueled, Jerry reaches for a fireplace

poker. He begins to joust with an imaginary opponent.

He becomes very aware of himself. Acting out in a virtual

stranger's small-but-comfortable living room.

He collapses onto the sofa, embarrassed.  Shaking his head.

Dorothy scoots closer in an adjacent chair.  She breaks the

personal barrier, carefully touching his wound with the wet

tip of the aloe vera plant.

Dorothy turns to see that Laurel's two shoes are still very

visible at the kitchen door.  Decides to ignore them.  She

gets closer.

There is something inspiring about the way she says the word

"inspiring."

He is catching a scent of that most ancient elixer.  A

woman's affection.  Their heads inch closer together.

They kiss.  It turns rather passionate.  She places a cool

hand on his cheek.   He places a hand on her breast.  The

taxi beeps outside.  She pulls away.  Both regard the hand on

her breast.

He laughs a little.  Music.  Unsure what more to say, Jerry

rubs his face.  And then:

He stands, returns the fireplace poker to her, and exits.

Stumbling slightly on the first step leading down from the

front porch, he recovers with style.

He takes a few more steps, re-balancing bags, coughs a

little.  He is a mess, and he knows it.

She laughs, waves, and exits back into the kitchen.  She

regards the poker still in her hand. Laurel watches her

conflicted, slightly lovesick sister.

INT. CAB -- NIGHT

Jerry in the back of the cab.  He turns for a moment, looking

back at the warm house he's just left. Something is

scratching at his soul, trying to get in. Music continues. He

was strangely comfortable there, as the house disappears from

his view.

EXT. TEMPE PRACTICE AREA -- DAY

Rod Tidwell races to catch up to a wobbly, overthrown pass.

He snags it out of the air, and moves gracefully downfield.

He turns back to shout at the quarterback for the wobbly

pass, and slams into a padding post.  Dennis Wilburn, the GM

we met earlier, crosses in front of Maguire, giving him a

look.  Maguire forges ahead anyway.

Wilburn moves on, scoffing loudly.

INT. LOCKER ROOM SHOWER AREA -- DAY

Jerry stands in pre-season locker-room.   Off-stage we hear

a shower.  In the b.g., one of those locker-room psych-up

signs like: Injuries happen first in the mind.

Rod emerges naked, dripping wet, pissed.

He says this next word royally, as if it's fine silk.

A portable phone beeps.

Tidwell rummages in his bag.  Finds one of two porties and

answers the one with a Polaroid of Marcee taped to it.

Tidwell holds up the phone so Jerry can hear the sound of

Marcee going off.

INT. LOCKER ROOM MIRROR -- DAY

The conversation continues as Tidwell fixes hair in the

mirror. Jerry  speaks  to  the  reflection,  taking  him  on,

gesturing passionately.  Tidwell, still naked, may or may not

be listening.

He mimes a dainty little showboat-touchdown dance.

Tidwell gives him a look.  Money was always a factor.

He begins gathering his things.

Jerry rubs face.

Jerry has had enough for one day.

Tidwell watches his agent lurch off, muttering and swaying.

INT. LAX AIRPORT -- DAY

Jerry moves slowly through crowded airport, preoccupied with

thought.

INT. JERRY'S HOME OFFICE -- LATER DAY

Jerry enters, carrying bags, weary.  Dorothy greets him. They

are stuck in his small condo, and the scent of their previous

encounter is still in the air.  She hands him a list of his

calls.

She hands him a financial report she's done.  He takes a

quick look, seeing the thorough work she's already done.

Dorothy in the background of the shot, watching his reaction.

INT. DOROTHY'S LIVING ROOM -- DAY

Dorothy looks for a jacket as Laurel helms the Divorced

Women's group in the living room.  Jan speaks through her

whistly braces, gesturing with a too-full glass of red wine.

Meaningful sounds of revelation, as Dorothy finds the jacket.

INT. HALLWAY -- NIGHT

Dorothy stops in the hallway to see that Jerry Maguire has

arrived at the back-kitchen door.  She watches unseen as

Maguire shakes hands with Chad the Nanny and is hit suddenly

by a flying hug from Ray.  He gives the kid an athletic bag,

which is filled with state-of-the-art promotional athletic

wear, etc. ("Brought you some swag.")  Ray continues hugging

Jerry.

INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Jerry is a little embarrassed by the affections of the kid.

Dorothy enters.  Expertly breezy.

He doesn't finish the words "going out on a date."  The

cacaphony of the Boyd home swirls around Maguire.  It's a new

sensation for this bachelor.

She twirls toward the door, grabbing her purse.

Laurel enters, adding to the chaos, adlibbing hellos.

Laurel gives Ray a look.  Ray backs down, as Jerry hears

snatches of the Women's group going full blast in the living

room.

Ray extends his arms, he wants a hug.  Jerry bends down

awkwardly to give him one, and Ray plants a kiss on Jerry's

cheek.  All are surprised, especially Jerry.  Dorothy is

struck and moved.  Shot falls on Ray who watches Jerry exit

with wonder. Even at his age, he knows a prize when he sees

one.

INT. KITCHEN-- NIGHT

Laurel looks out the window, watches her sister exiting. She

is equal parts jealous and protective.  She spots keys on

counter. She grabs them and runs out to catch her sister on

the lawn. "All Shook Down."  Replacements.

EXT. DOROTHY'S HOUSE -- NIGHT

Jerry and Dorothy exit through the many cars which we now see

are parked on the street and the front lawn.  The sound of

the Women's group is heard in the warmly glowing house behind

them.

As Jerry moves ahead to the car, Dorothy retreats so she can

have privacy with her sister.

Women's group laughter in the distance as Laurel attempts to

glue her emotional sister back together.  She holds her arm.

We stay with Laurel as she watches her sister exit.   Music

continues.  Lit by streetlight, Dorothy runs like a young

girl, across the lawns of this car-filled neighborhood,

slapping away the leaves of a tree, running to Jerry down the

street.

INT. ANTONIO'S RESTAURANT -- NIGHT

Jerry and Dorothy sit at the table of this Mexican

restaurant. In the background, Mariachis play.

Mariachis approach the table.

Jerry slips the guy a few bucks to go away. They do so,

reluctantly.

A FLOWER GIRL approaches the table with an armful of roses.

Jerry gives her few bucks, she exits.

Jerry laughs to himself. He admires her directness.

She exits and we hang on him for a moment.

INT. BATHROOM -- NIGHT -- MINUTES LATER

Dorothy on the phone outside the bathroom.

EXT. BATHROOM

Sbe exits the bathroom and stops at the sight of what is

happening at the table. Jerry, hand on face, is

embarrassingly being serenaded by the Mariachis, who now play

a mournful "Tears in Heaven."  She smiles at the image, in

fact the poetry charms her. Dorothy moves forward, grinning,

fishes some bucks out of her pocket, and sends the Mariachis

in another direction.

INT. DOROTHY'S PORCH -- NIGHT

Music feathers into sounds of night.  A bug buzzing from the

nearby light, Jerry swats it away.

They don't kiss.  They take great care not to touch too much.

They don't move. On impulse, she grabs him and pulls him

close. Kisses him.  It's a good one.

But they don't move.  He pulls her closer by her straps.

They break.  She holds them up, nervous now. His lips travel

down. He kisses her upper chest. She sighs deeply, she's

missed this feeling.  Jerry rises to kiss her lips again,

tying her straps back on. Her expression says there is a

decision to make. She concentrates on the styrofoam container

she's brought back from the restaurant.

She exits, as shot lingers on Jerry.  That odd moment when

you've crossed the line.  He takes a breath.

INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Dorothy enters to find Chad watching t.v.  The house is now

quiet, the remains of the Divorced Women's group is still in

evidence.

Chad raises his eyebrows.

EXT. PORCH -- NIGHT

Jerry on the porch, as Chad exits.  Chad now fully plays the

part of friend with seniority.  Looks the taller Jerry up and

down.

Chad ruumages in bag for a moment.  Jerry is somewhat

horrified at what Chad might be giving him.  Out comes a

cassette tape.

Jerry takes the tape, as the front door squeaks open.

Dorothy shoos Chad away, quietly leads Jerry inside.

INT. BEDROOM-- NIGHT

Fierce, driving jazz. Dorothy and Jerry making out on bed.

Getting hotter. The music gets wilder. Finally it is

impossible to ignore, and Jerry collapses backwards on the

bed laughing.  She is left frozen, her arms open but he is

gone.

They both crack up, and she kisses him as the music plays. He

looks at her. She turns away, then back again, he's still

looking at her. It's a powerful moment for her.  Laughter

continues, the music is ridiculous. (Their sex is a big

difference from the let's-be-intense sex with Avery.)

INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT -- SAME TIME

Laurel just home from work in nurse uniform, has a late-night

joint and carefully blows the smoke out the window.  Laughter

from the next room.  She pops open the styrofoam appetizers

her sister brought back from dinner.

INT. DOROTHY'S BEDROOM -- MORNING

Radio clicks on.  It's still dark.  Only the glow of the

digital lamp.  Jerry alone in bed.  He gets up, coughs, pulls

on some pants.  Manuevers through a strange bedroom, steps on

toys.

INT. KITCHEN -- MORNING

Dorothy and Laurel in the kitchen, waiting far the first

possible drops of coffee.

She starts to exit, but Laurel pulls her back far a second.

INT. HALLWAY -- MORNING

Jerry moving dawn the hallway, hears voices.

INT. KITCHEN -- MORNING

ON JERRY

listening.  Pinned to the wall, listening to the kind of

honesty an agent rarely hears.

They look at each other. The cat is way, way out of the bag.

ON JERRY

rubbing his face.

Dorothy leans into the hallway now, sees Jerry standing

there, well within earshot.  As Ray pounds down the hallway

in his new over-sized shirt, brought by Jerry, Dorothy begins

to crumble. The lack of control in her life is overwhelming

her.

Jerry enters the kitchen, stands near Laurel.

Apple Jacks it is.  Dorothy, good morning, darling. He kisses

her on the cheek, in full view of Ray.  Dorothy, still

embarrassed, not sure what is going on, reaches for cereal.

Jerry sits down for breakfast.  They are an odd, but fairly

complete-looking family.

The sisters look at each other.  Ray looks around, he feels

happy, but there is something else in the room.  He shrugs

and continues to feel happy.

INT. JERRY'S HOME OFFICE -- LATER DAY

Jerry and Dorothy prepare for the Tidwells, cleaning up the

cramped office, unstacking chairs and making room.

The Tidwells honk, arriving in the driveway.

She feels slightly slapped down, but covers.  She opens a

window quickly, and busies herself with the clutter at hand.

ON FAX

Connecting.

FOUR FACES

waiting for the results.  Everybody has a stake in this fax.

Lives are very clearly hanging on this results.  Marcee shuts

her eyes.

There is a stunning disappointment on the fax.  Jerry's heart

sinks.  His face slackens.

Rod turns away.  Dorothy shuts her eyes, as Marcee opens hers.

It is so very painful for her, as Tidwell slinks off to sit

in a seat too small for him.

Both men look at her. The outburst has surprised even Marcee.

Dorothy looks right and left, can't hold back.

She opens a drawer, and withdraws the Mission Statement. She

is headed across the room to give it to Marcee, when Jerry

swiftly intercepts it.

Jerry throws the Mission Statement into a bottom drawer.

Camera moves to Tidwell, and we see him for the first time

without his protective shield of attitude.  Scared.

Marcee is passionate.  Focused on Rod.

Beat.  Truer words...  The big man looks into his wife's eyes.

No one else in the world exists.  They are focused totally on

each other.  Jerry and Dorothy in the background, just

watching the intricate machinery of this marriage.

She caresses the back of his neck.  He pulls her to him.  He

gives her a small kiss.  Dorothy and Jerry look at the

couple, fascinated and somewhat uncomfortable.  There is a

palpable forcefield around the Tidwells.  They are a couple

in every passionate sense of the word.  After a beat:

Jerry looks over to Dorothy, who grits her teeth at the

implications of the decision.

Tidwell puts his hand out.  Maguire is conflicted, but he

takes a breath and shakes.

EXT. JERRY'S HOME OFFICE -- LATE AFTERNOON

Tidwell and Marcee exit.  Dorothy and Jerry on the lawn.

Tidwells exit.  Finally, Dorothy and Jerry are alone.  The

Tidwell situation has left an ominious feeling in the air.

AIRPLANE WHEELS

touching down.

EXT. COMMERCIAL SET/TAYLOR CHEVROLET/ARIZONA -- DAY

Tidwell stands on the set of a regional Arizona car

commercial. It is a hot day.  Three other bored, large

Arizona athletes wait by a coffee machine, as Jerry's friend,

director Bill Dooler appears ready to implode.  Dooler is

arguing with Tidwell.

Maguire stands slightly away, acting as referee.  Nearby, a

camel.

Tidwell waves his arms, spooking the camel, who spits and

stormps. Several crew members scatter in various directions.

EXT. SET -- LATER

Jerry and Tidwell walk quickly from the set.  In the

background, another athlete rides the camel.

Jerry rubs his face.

Tidwell warms to the personal question.

Tidwell is always happy to hold forth.

INT. ZOO -- DAY

Jerry, Dorothy and Ray at the zoo.  Ray straining at Jerry's

arm. Life-changing decisions in the air.

Jerry feels tugged in many directions, and not just by Ray.

They approach the reptile house.

They approach the Reptile House, where a small crowd is

gathered.

A few people peel away, revealing...

THE TWO-HEADED CORN SNAKE

A friendly but confused looking reptile.  The snake has two

heads, both identical, both twisting and battling each other

for direction.  Aw-ed chatter around the animal ranges from

"weird" and "wow" to "mira mira!  Dos cabezas!"  Few can turn

away.

Jerry is happy to play tour-guide.

The odd animal moves forward, fighting itself constantly.

Dorothy just looks at the two men in her life.  She turns to

Anonymous Man standing nearby, staring at the animal.

ON THE TWO-HEADED CORN SNAKE

strangely endearing, jittering and moving around the cage.

EXT. DOROTHY'S FRONT YARD -- DAY

A U-Haul is parked in the driveway.  Inside the cab, a very

sad Ray.  Jerry approaches carefully.  Ray does not look at

him.  He opens the door, scoots the kid over, and sits next

to him.

EXT. DOROTHY'S LIVING ROOM -- DAY

Laurel and Dorothy say goodbye.

POV -- THE SISTERS

We see Jerry, following Chad back to the house, saying

goodbye too many times. He's anxious not to be left alone.

Finally Chad grabs him by the shoulders, says goodbye, as a

sad Ray trudges to the cab of the U-Haul.  Jerry now follows

Ray to the car.

EXT. DOROTHY'S PLACE -- DAY

Jerry scoots a very sad Ray over, and talks to him in the car.

Ray begins to cry. Jerry is incapable of dealing with it.

Ray wails.  Jerry squeezes his shoulder, it does nothing, so

he exits. He rises and faces Dorothy, keys in hand.

She accepts it casually, with a shrug.

Jerry blinks.

She reacts with an odd look.  The words don't sound right,

and he knows that she knows.

He shudders a little with the intimacy of her words.  She

kisses him, and moves quickly toward the car, leaving him

alone in frame. He grows increasingly uncomfortable.  He

watches her leave.

ON DOROTHY

moving to her car.  She hears him.  It's not loud enough for

her.

She stops, smiling very slightly to herself , biting her lip.

She turns and he is now close to her.

He grips one hand with the other.  Dorothy looks at his

strange behavior.  He looks over to the cab, where Ray is

making a sad face at him through the window.

She looks at him.  It's an odd proposal.

She looks at him, full of love, dabbing at her mascara.

EXT. DOROTHY'S BACKYARD -- DAY

Rod Tidwell sings Marvin Gaye's "What's Going On" at the

wedding for assorted guests gathered here in the backyard.

Contrary to his own belief, Rod is not a gifted singer.  In

the wedding band, standing on a small stage in the corner,

are Chad and Dooler.

ON JERRY

who stands watching, smile pasted on, with stoic FATHER and

well-dressed BROTHER.

INT. DOROTHY'S LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

We are close on Ray now as we hear the sound of a Reverend

reading wedding vows.  Ray holds the ring, and waits for his

cue to offer it.  But he has forgotten the cue.  And every

time the Reverend pauses, he starts to offer the ring.

Dorothy's leg and hand are visible in frame.  She calms him

with a hand on the shoulder.  And finally the cue comes and

he offers the ring.

INT. DOROTHY'S HALLWAY/KITCHEN -- NIGHT

The bride and groom catch each other, post-wedding, in the

hallway of the small home where the event has taken place.

Giddy, Dorothy heads into the living room where Friends and

relatives watch the video of the wedding. And now the

enormity is evident on Jerry's face. Warm laughter in the

b.g.  More laughter and family noise in the background now.

He holds onto a table for a moment, steadies himself.  Jerry

takes a breath and moves into the kitchen.  Finds a beer.  He

turns and finds himself alone with Laurel, for the first

time.  She raises her beer.  They toast, warily.

Nearby, Tidwell watches all.  He moves to Jerry.

Confidentially:

Jerry smiles.  Dorothy brings Jerry a Poloraid someone took,

and for a moment the couple stands awkwardly together.

Tidwell rubs Jerry's shoulders a little, announcing to the

room:

He pounds Jerry on the back, hard, shaking him like a pinata.

EXT. PHILADELPHIA PLAYING FIELD -- DAY

Tidwell catches the ball, takes a vicious hit. The season is

on.

INT. PHILADELPHIA PRESS BOX -- DAY

Across the room, he sees GM Dennis Wilburn standing with

Avery.

He turns away, passing a monitor where elsewhere in the

country, Frank Cushman is having another sensational Sunday.

INT. TIDWELL LIVING ROOM/PHOENIX -- DAY

This is the Tidwell family ritual of watching Rod's games on

the big-screen home t.v.  At the center is Marcee Tidwell.

Everything flows from her.  Next to her is Tyson, and then

the cousins, the neighborhood friends.  At this particular

moment, they are all screaming for Rod, who is taking a

beating, but is having a hell of a game.  In front of the

t.v., Tyson does the "Daddy Dance," a dance of pure joy.

Marcee reaches out and collars her dancing son.

Tyson nods, wide-eyed.

Marcee shoots him a look, as Tidwell takes another rough hit.

INT. STADIUM HALLWAY -- NIGHT

Jerry stands waiting.  Bob Sugar nearby, greeting quarterback

JOHN SWENSON.  Still no Tidwell.

EXT. PHILADELPHIA LOCKER ROOM -- NIGHT

Finally, here comes Tidwell, moving very slowly with garmet

bag.

With great skill, Tidwell pats the fan and moves him along to

other tired players.

Insane fan moves to another player.  Jerry proceeds carefully.

Jerry regards his slightly befuddled friend.

Tidwell wearily heads for the bus.  Jerry stands in the

parking lot.

Jerry looks at Rod for a moment.  It is the simplest

question, and one in which he has no quick answer.

Jerry exits.  Tidwell is pissed.  And hurt.

He gets on the bus.

INT. CRAB RESTAURANT -- NIGHT

The Tidwells and the Maguires.  Tyson and Ray run around the

table of this family-style restaurant. Marcee is very very

pregnant. They crack crabs for each other, seasoning for each

other, feeding each other like one many-armed and loving body.

He cracks more crab, gives her the biggest piece.

SHOT OF JERRY AND DOROTHY

Sitting across the table, stunned, just watching this

intricate and perfect marriage.

SHOT OF MARCEE

She takes a breath and gets a weird look.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- NIGHT

Marcee gives birth, Rod assisting.  Jerry and Dorothy watch

from behind thick glass.  She hangs her arm on his shoulder,

looks at him.  Jerry stares straight ahead. Mortified, with

dry throat.

INT. DOROTHY AND JERRY'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Jerry and Dorothy exhausted, alone, getting ready for bed.

Dorothy sits down near him on the bed.

He makes a noise. As in -- it's no big mystery.

Beat.  He feels inadequate.

It is, of course, the better question.  And before he can

answer, there is a pounding at the door.

The door flies open and Ray comes bounding in, onto the bed,

stations himself in the center and begins wrestling Jerry for

the remote control.  Dorothy watches, disconnected.  A

steeliness comes over her that we have not yet seen.

INT. PRESCHOOL -- NEXT DAY

Dorothy drops Ray at preschool, and stands in the doorway of

the playroom.  She watches the boys and girls playing

together in a room full of bright colors and games.  Music.

Anxiety building.

EXT. RAY'S PLAYHOUSE -- NIGHT

Jerry sits finishing a phone call to an advertising account

exec. He has come here, to Ray's playhouse for privacy.

Jerry adlibs some salesmanship on Tidwell's behalf.   Dorothy

approaches.  She gives him a few phone messages, sits down.

Beat of silence.  He sees a look on her face that is

unfamiliar.

But now he can't stop.

She notes the only real glimpse of ache, in that question.

Jerry Maguire, a man who speaks for a living, has nothing to

say.

He moves to embrace her.  She pulls away first.

INT. RAY'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Jerry kisses sleepy Ray goodbye.

And then faces the exotic fish who now resides on Ray's

table.  He once lived in a tank the size of a Cadillac.  The

fish now hangs in a too-small bowl, looking at him.

INT. AIRPORT --  DAY

Jerry Maguire stretches his arms out.  A security wand passes

over him.  Deadness in his eyes. The glaze of the road on

him.  Music.

EXT. SUN DEVIL STADIUM -- ARIZONA

We are hovering in the sky, just above Sun Devil Stadium.

The classic Monday Night Football shot from the blimp.

INT. TIDWELL LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Tidwell's family in the living room.  A buzz in the air.  The

pregame show is on, sound-muted. Old-school on the stereo.

Everybody is happy.  Marcee sits in the position of honor,

her new baby KAYDEE in her arms.   She is a tired mother, and

the family celebrates her.

Marcee shoots Tee Pee a look.

INT. TUNNEL AREA/PRE-GAME -- NIGHT

Nervous Tidwell chews a toothpick as he stands checking out

the field.  Nearby, some cheerleaders and a man in a Pickle

suit.

Tidwell turns.  It's Bob Sugar approaching. Laser-like, ready

to feed on his insecurity.

Tidwell looks at him, chews his toothpick.

Here comes Jerry Maguire.

Tidwell can't help it.  He beams as he sees his agent

approach.

Sugar retreats, offering one final look to Rod, think about

what I said.

INT. TIDWELL HOME -- NIGHT

They watch the game.

Tidwell takes a rough hit, and they respond loudly.

INT. PRESS BOX -- NIGHT

Maguire moves through the box.

INT. FIELD -- NIGHT

Tidwell takes a hit.  Hangs onto the ball.

INT. TIDWELL LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

The Tidwell clan are banging on t.v. trays and whooping

loudly. But in the middle of the cheers, Marcee sees the

unsettled look on young Tyson's face.   She pulls him over to

her, giving him preference over baby Kaydee.  He is the only

thing in her world, as she says:

Marcee gives him a kiss, as Tidwell makes another grueling

gain on the field.

Big laughs from the living room.  Except Tee Pee.

INT. PRESS BOX -- NIGHT

Maguire watches as Arizona's quarterback John Swenson drops

back for a pass, and is sacked.

Philadelphia fans cheer wildly.  The game is turning uglier

by the minute.  Jerry looks up to the monitor for a closet

look at the next play.

ON PRESS BOX MONITOR

Swenson, the Arizona quarterback, throws a wobbly pass into

the end-zone.  Tidwell leaps for the catch, tucks the ball in

and is promptly and brutally hit by two defenders from two

different sides.  This hit is bad.  Worse than bad.  Tidwell

flips and comes down like a sack of potatoes, with a thud,

ball still in his hands. His head hits the astroturf, hard.

Tidwell is out cold.  And the ripple effect of the injury

shoots through the stadium.  Jerry stares at the monitor,

stunned by the sudden brutality.

EXT. ARIZONA FIELD -- NIGHT

We are thrust into the vortex, inside the game.  Tidwell lies

still on turf.  Overhead, the fight music continues for a few

seconds before disappearing abruptly. Players and coaches

begin to gather around the still body of Rod Tidwell.

TV MONITOR -- SLO-MO

The hit in replay.  It is brutal.  And we can see a flash of

his pride as he catches the lousy pass, and then... like two

bulls, the Philadelphia defenders enter from each side.  One

cuts his legs out from under him, and Rod's taut body

literally flips.  The second defender then hits him at the

shoulders.  Tidwell lands on the back of his neck, crumpling

downwards.  Still holding the ball.  Still.

INT. TIDWELL LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Silence.  Utter silence.

And then, in a cry that gurgles from way down deep, Marcee

begins to sob.  Camera catches the face of Tyson, now

panicked.  Scared, he embraces his mother.

INT. BOWELS OF SUN DEVIL STADIUM

Maguire sprints through the inner bowels of the stadium.  He

turns the corner, into the tunnel, talking his way past a

guard, heading into the bright t.v. light of the football

field.

INT. TIDWELL LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Gathering around the television, the family waits through a

commercial for more information on Rod's injury.

Marcee lunges for him.

Across the room, the phone starts ringing.  A COUSIN answers.

EXT. ARIZONA FIELD -- NIGHT

Jerry Maguire on the portable.

She takes a big gulp, as Jerry watches an overzealous Trainer

run out onto the field to join the cluster around the fallen

Tidwell. Jerry covers phone and yells onto the field.

EXT. CENTER OF PLAYING FIELD -- NIGHT

We're now just a few inches in front of his peaceful,

sleeping face.  They are all. YELLING, trying to pull him out.

SHOTS OF NATIONAL TELEVISION AUDIENCES

1)   A full sports bar in arizona silently watches Monday

Night Football.

2)   Generic living room of sports fans, all watching Tidwell

pinned to the screen.

3)   Generic outdoor bar-b-que as white fans watch t.V.

4)   Tidwell living room.  All gathered around the television.

5)   Maguire straining at the sideline.

ON TIDWELL -- CLOSE

Dead to the world as sound disappears. There is now only

silence.

POV TIDWELL - SLO-MO -- SILENCE

The Doctors and the Trainers are now truly panicked.  We

don't hear them.   We see them, their motions increasingly

manic. Shoving fingers in front of him.  Screaming.  We read

their lips.  ("Rod!" "Rod can you hear us!")  We see the

anguish and escalating fear on their faces.  The Trainer

leans in close, bellowing, he spreads his hands wide to clap

right in front of Rod's still face.  His hands head toward

each other... closer... bringing with them the first inkling

of sound...  getting closer and then finally coming together,

bringing with him the sounds of the stadium.

ON TIDWELL

who blinks back to life.  Concerned men are yelling very

loudly, right in his face.  Tidwell becomes aware he is the

absolute center of attention of the entire stadium.  As crowd

noise begins to rise.

ON JERRY

who watches.  Only marginally relieved.  Is he okay?

ON FANS

Crowd noise rises.  Is he okay?

ON TIDWELL

Can he move?  Is he okay?

ON TIDWELL'S LIVING ROOM

Not a breath is taken.  Is he okay?

He rises.  Stadium explodes.  At first on wobbly feet, he

raises the football and for the first time -- salutes the

crowd.  Crowd noise doubles.

ON MAGUIRE

gasping for breath.

ON TIDWELL

Has never felt like this before in his life.  It is the pure

and absolute love of the spotlight.  And his fans.

And then... it's real and he feels it.  Tidwell breaks out in

a small but unmistakable move -- a flutter step.  He does a

high-stepping move, all his own, for about ten yards.

ON JERRY MAGUIRE

who watches, now in complete disbelief. Tidwell will not let

go of the spotlight.

ON TIDWELL'S LIVING ROOM

Going absolutely nuts.  Marcee hysterical, laughing and

crying.

Tyson watches in silent awe of his mother.

BACK ON TIDWELL -- CLOSE

Finishes his small but heartfelt dance.  It is a personal

catharsis he is sharing now with 2 billion people.

He moves past Jerry Maguire on his way off the field. Jerry,

casually thumps his heart twice. Jerry Maguire is overcome

with emotion.  He sits down on a camera case, head in his

hands.  Behind him, a stadium cheers a new hero.

Maguire rubs his face.  Overcome. Photographers and others

rush past to be closer to Tidwell.

INT. TUNNEL -- LATER

Jerry Maguire surrounded by well-wishers and backslappers and

Sportswriters.  Success has returned, in all of it's

superficial grandeur.  He is a star again, by association.

We catch the look on Maguire's face.  Try as he might, he

can't manufacture the joy of the moment.  There is a void.

Over the heads of the heatseekers we see Dennis Wilburn

nodding, holding a thumbs up.  He tries to get to Maguire,

but cannot.  And then a commotion behind them all.

Tidwell exits the locker room.  Press and media surround him.

Even the grizzled old-time stadium workers reach in to

squeeze him, to slap him, to touch him.  He works his way to

Maguire.

They hug. Cameras flash.  Tears roll down from beneath his

purple shades.

And now, in the middle of this emotional union, a portable

phone rings.  Both men reach for their porties.  It's

Maguire's.  With anticipation, he answers.

Tidwell grabs the phone, and joyously shares the moment with

his wife.  Jerry watches, as Tidwell leans on his shoulder.

ON SUGAR AND SWENSON (WATCHING THEM)

Bob Sugar watches from the nearby wall where he stands with

his client, quarterback John Swenson.

INT. ARIZONA KAROAKE BAR -- NIGHT

Rod Tidwell sings karoake, on stage.  He's struggling through

U2's "One."  In the audience are many Arizona players, as

well as most of Tidwell's family.

INT. TIDWELL HOME -- NIGHT

Tee Pee is stuck at home, babysitting twenty kids.

INT. KAROAKE BAR -- NIGHT

We move past many Big Men celebrating Tidwell, singing along,

sharing their Monday Night victory, onto melancholy Jerry

Maguire. He watches, cellular at his side, as a YOUNG AGENT

approaches.

He withdraws a well-thumbed copy of Jerry's Mission

Statement.  The blue cover is ripped along one edge.  It

clearly has served as a manifesto for this younger man's

career.

ON JERRY MAGUIRE

He feels the cover, flips through it a little.  Memories

flood with the passing pages.   Shot holds on Jerry's face,

as Tidwell continues singing in the background.  Suddenly, an

odd feeling.  A shiver runs up and down his spine.  His

forehead tingles.  He rubs his face.  All he can do is think

of Dorothy.

INT. AIRPORT -- NIGHT

Jerry Maquire sprints through the empty airport, heading for

the last flight out of town.  Music.

INT. DOROTHY'S LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

The Divorced Women's Group in session.  Laurel stands near

the doorway, blowing cigarette smoke into the night.  Dorothy

is now a part of this group.

Murmurs of agreement.

Murmurs of disappointment.

EXT. DOROTHY'S HOUSE -- NIGHT

Jerry exits cab, holding hang-up bag.  Looks at the house.

On the other side of that window is a world he hopes he's

still a part of.

INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Jerry enters.  Dorothy is seated toward the back.

Dorothy looks up, robbed of words.  Stunned, she does not

move.

Dorothy says nothing.

He shares a look with some of the other women.  She's not

going to say a word.  Neither do they.

He moves to her.  They embrace.  Ray watches in b.g.  Jerry

has given this room hope.  It's on their faces. At last, even

Laurel gets off on her sister's happiness, as she shares a

look with Chad.

INT. ROY FIRESTONE SHOW -- NIGHT

Roy Firestone leans forward.

Tidwell is wearing glasses now, in a somewhat scholarly mode.

ON TIDWELL -- WEEPING

ON TIDWELL'S FRIENDS AND FAMILY

watching off-camera.  Marcee crying too.  Shot takes us to

Jerry, Dorothy and Ray.

Amused and finally glimpsing the end of a long journey, Jerry

leans over to Marcee.

She nods, emotionally, biting her lip.

Jerry watches wonderously at the monitor before leaving. TV

credits are rolling on the show.

EXT. PARKING LOT -- DAY

Jerry, Dorothy, Ray exit into the daylight.  They walk to

Jerry's car. From across the fence, a stray baseball from a

pick-up game flies into the parking lot and bounces ahead of

them.  Ray picks it up. In an easy fluid motion, he whips it

back over the fence to the game on the other side.  A few

kids on the other side of the fence shout their approval of

a great little throw.

Jerry and Dorothy stop, looking at Ray who has just shown

shocking natural ability.  They are quiet for a moment,

turning slowly to look at each other.  And then, not ready to

deal with it, not even close to ready to deal with it, they

say quickly to the boy:

Happily Ray joins them as they walk to the car.  A family.

Music.

