Credits run in counterpoint through a 7 to 10 minute sequence

of documentary images setting the tone of John F. Kennedy's

Presidency and the atmosphere of those tense times, 1960

through 1963.  An omniscient narrator's voice marches us

through in old time Pathe' newsreel fashion.

EISENHOWER ADDRESS

ELECTION IMAGERY

School kids reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.  WPA films of

farmers harvesting the Texas plains.  Rain, thunderheads, a

dusty car coming from far away on a road moving towards

Dallas.  Cowboys round up the cattle.  Young marrieds in a

church.  Hillsides of tract homes going up.  The American

breadbasket, the West.  Over this we hear Eisenhower's

address.  As we move into the election campaign of 1960, we

see the TV debates, Nixon vs. Kennedy, Mayor Daley, Kennedy

victorious...

Against this is juxtaposed other forces: segregation, J.

Edgar Hoover, military advisors, Castro, Marilyn Monroe,

Lumumba... three frames of the Zapruder film counter-cut...

ending with the Kennedy inauguration and the irony of Earl

Warren administering the oath as he will Kennedy's eulogy.

BAY OF PIGS IMAGERY

The beach, the bombardment, the rounding up of prisoners,

Kennedy's public apology, Allen Dulles standing next to

J.F.K., both uncomfortable with the small talk...

SECRET WAR IMAGERY

Cuban rallies, footage of training camps, espionage

activities, boats, cases of weapons, Robert Kennedy... John

Roselli, Sam Giancana, Santos Trafficante, Richard Helms

(the new CIA chief), Bill Harvey, Head of ZR/RIFLE, Howard

Hunt...

CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS

Khrushchev, Kennedy, Castro on television, meetings with

Cabinet, Russian vessels in Caribbean, U.S. nuclear bases on

alert, civilians going to underground safe areas... the

Russian ship turning around, the country smiling...

NUCLEAR TEST BAN IMAGERY

Closing down Cuban Camps, McNamara speaking, Khrushchev and

Kennedy, the "hot line" telephone system inaugurated, Kennedy

with Jackie and children sailing off Cape Cod... Vietnam

introduction, early shots, Green Berets, counterinsurgency

programs, De Lansdale, leading up to the Test Ban signings...

then J.F.K. at American University, June 10, 1963.

CONCLUDING KENNEDY IMAGERY

Diplomats at the United Nations... Adlai Stevenson, Castor...

Martin Luther King and the March on Washington (a snatch of

his "I Have a Dream" speech)... Bobby Kennedy and Jimmy Hoffa

going at it... U.S.  Steel Chairman's remarks in the steel

face-off, men going to courtrooms with briefcases,... Teddy

Kennedy, Rose, Joe, the Kennedy family, all teeth and good

looks... and of course John campaigning, always campaigning,

shaking hands, smiling, that supremely warm smile and sense

of grace and ability to convey to crowds their oneness with

him... forever... culminating in the more specific Texas

shots... with Jackie in San Antonio, and Houston... then at

Fort Worth... then at Love Field moving through the clouds

toward the Dallas/Forth Worth plain which suddenly breaks

into view as we descend...

LOUISIANA HIGHWAY - DAY (1963)

A moving car carrying two Cuban males disgorges a rumpled,

screaming woman, Rose Cheramie, a whore in her thirties,

lying there bleeding in the dirt.  The car drives off.

HOSPITAL - DAY (1963)

We see Rose, badly cut but quite lucid, trying to reason

with a policeman, Lt. Fruge, and a doctor - in a remote black-

and-white documentary.

BACK TO DOCUMENTARY IMAGES

We see the last close-ups of Kennedy shaking hands on the

tarmac at Love Field, smiling, into the motorcade... the

downtown streets of Dallas, people packing the sidewalks

clear back to the buildings, hanging out of windows ten

stories up, schoolgirls surging out into the street in front

of the car.  The President is wildly popular - except for

the occasional posters calling for his arrest for treason...

DEALEY PLAZA - THAT DAY (NOV. 22, 1963)

We see a massive overhead shot of the Plaza as it lay then.

Credits conclude under shot - and we have the subtitle

"November 22, 1963."

A young epileptic screams and suddenly collapses near the

fountains in front of the Texas School Depository.  He has a

violent epileptic fit that attracts surrounding attention.

Dallas policemen run over to him.  We hear the siren of an

ambulance roaring up.

TIMECUT TO ambulance loading the epileptic man and taking

off.

BACK TO a montage of the shooting.  We see Kennedy, in the

last seconds, waving, turning the corner at Houston from

Main... We see TV footage and a piece of Zapruder film from

before the shooting; fragmented images...

CUT TO stages shots of crowd people looking on.  The images

are grainy to match the tone of the Zapruder film.  People

are on rooftops, hollering.  The crowd is wild with

enthusiasm.  We pan past Jack Ruby and slam into him in black-

and-white.  The camera shows a Cuban man with a radio; a man

with an umbrella; subliminals.  Through open windows on the

fifth floor of the Criminal Courts Building, convicts watch

and holler from their jail cells.  We see the sixth floor of

the Texas Book Depository with open windows and a vague blur

of a figure and a rifle.

The clock on the Hertz sign reads 12:30.

A motorcycle officer paralleling the Kennedy car tries to

use his radio.

It's jammed.  The sound of the jammed Dictabelt drives the

rest of the sequence.

We see Zapruder, a short middle - aged man, shooting his 8mm

film from the Grassy Knoll, and then we see Jackie Kennedy -

floating on film, her voice, high, soft:

The camera rests on Jackie for a beat, and then we see the

shot of the little schoolgirl skipping on the grass.

CUT TO the approaching overpass.  J.F.K. waves... Mrs.

Connally turns to J.F.K.  The shot is crazy, fractured,

surreal.

Then we hear the shots: the volley sounds like a motorcycle

backfire.  We catch a glimpse of a muzzle flash and smoke.

We see a view from the street of the Texas School Book

Depository - all in line with the "official" version of

events.  Pigeons by the hundreds suddenly shoot off the roof.

Then the screen goes gray as did CBS TV's first bulletins to

the country.

We hear voices under this from everywhere, colliding in

confusion and horror:

We hear sirens and screeching tires.  The screen is still

gray, randomly intercut with the end of the Nix film showing

the car escaping.  There are wildly tracking shots of the

crowd running towards the Grassy Knoll.

The camera pans up the little set of stairs.  We see more

faces.

Someone in a suit stops our camera.  Secret Service?

We see the briefest glimpse from the Zapruder film.  The

camera moves in on the open umbrella next, then to the freeway

sign, then to Mrs. Kennedy out of the car reaching for help,

then to the agent rushing onto the rear fender.  The car

finally speeds away.  The people on the other side of the

underpass wave at the oncoming hearse from hell.  (These are

fragmented, mystifying shots.  The main effect is one of

blackout - of not knowing; of being in the dark, as we all

were back then.)

CUT TO JIM GARRISON'S OFFICE - NEW ORLEANS - SAME DAY (1963)

Pause.  The lovely old china clock on the wall reads 12:35.

Somewhere a car backfires.  We see a close-up of the clock

moving to 12:36.  We hear the sound of a pen on paper,

scratching... We see a shot of Jim Garrison as a young air

pilot in World War II; hear the sound of airplanes.  The

camera moves to framed photos of Jim as a young, Lincolnesque

lawyer... we hear sounds of political rallies, cheering... a

shot of Jim's grandfather shaking hands with President William

Taft.  The sound of bulldozers carries us to a shot of Jim

staring at piles of decaying corpses at Dachau... a photo of

Clarence Darrow... a law degree and an appointment as District

Attorney of the New Orleans Parish... Mother Garrison with

young Jim on the desk... another family - his own.  We look

across the thick desk with the chess set, A Complete

Works of William Shakespeare and a Nazi helmet with a bullet

hole in it... to Jim himself writing - pen to paper.  We

sense the quiet intellect of the 43 year old man.  The clock

ticks in the awful suspended silence.

It's as if the air itself has been sucked from the silent

room.  This is the last moment of peace before the World

will rush through the door in all its sound and fury - to

change his life forever.  The camera haywires into a close-

up of Jim as he looks up... and knows.

Lou Ivon, Jim's chief investigator, is already standing there

in the room.  He is burly, in his 30s - his expression

universal for that day.

Jim is stunned.  His look of horror and shock speaks the

same language as on faces all across America that Black

Friday.

Jim gets up, heading rapidly for the door.

NAPOLEON'S RESTAURANT - THE QUARTER - DAY(1963)

The midday customers all stare solemnly at the TV set high

in the corner of the cafe.  The manager, ashen, serves drinks

to Jim and Lou.

We are told a bullet entered the base of the throat and came

out of the backside, but there is no confirmation, blood

transfusions are being given, a priest has administered the

last rites.

They all look up, expectant, as Walter Cronkite interrupts

on the TV:

There are sounds of shock, muttering, some sobbing in the

restaurant.  Lou gulps down his drink.  Jim sits stunned.

He holds back the tears.  The food comes.  Lou waves it off.

They just sit there.

EXTERIOR KATZENJAMMER'S BAR - SAME DAY(1963)

Katzenjammer's is an Irish working class bar across Canal

St. In a seedy area near the Mississippi River, just off

Lafayette Square.

INTERIOR KATZENJAMMER'S BAR - SAME DAY(1963)

A variety of loud Irish working men sit on stools watching

the TV.  There are a few formica tables with chairs against

the walls, and an unused pool table.

On the TV, we see the scene at Dealey Plaza.  The reporter

has several men, women, and children gathered around him.

He puts his microphone in their faces.

CUT TO the picket fence above the Grassy Knoll.

CUT TO the Book Depository.

CUT TO the County Records Building.

Back in the bar, the camera moves to two patrons seated at a

table by themselves, far enough away not to be heard.  Guy

Banister is a sturdy, imposing ex - FBI agent in his 60's,

steel gray hair, blue eyes, ruddy from heavy drinking.  He

wears a small rosebud in his lapel.  Jack Martin is a thin,

mousy man in his mid - 50's, wearing a Dick Tracy hat.

They're both drinking Wild Turkey heavily.  The TV blares

loudly across the room over their voices.

NAPOLEON'S RESTAURANT - DAY(1963)

Several hours have elapsed.  The clientele has grown,

drinking, watching the tube with the insatiable curiosity

the event engendered.  People stare in from the street...

There is a silence in the restaurant.

TELEVISION INSERT:  image of a Dallas policeman hauling a

Mannlicher - Carcano rifle with a sniperscope over the heads

of the press gathered in the police station.

We see images of the textbook boxes - the sniper's nest in

the sixth story of the Book Depository - and then the view

out the window looking down at Elm Street.

CUT TO Newsman 2 at a different location or in studio.

Police are saying there could be a tie - in here to the murder

of the President.

TELEVISION INSERT:  Lee Harvey Oswald, a bruise over his

right temple, is apprehended at the Texas Theatre.

TELEVISION INSERT:  Oswald is booked at the station.  A surly

young man, 24, he claims to the press:

The room bursts out with an accumulated fury at the young

Oswald - a tremendous release of tension.  On the TV we see

the excitement in the newsmen's eyes; they all sense that

this is the break they're looking for in the case.

Garrison and Ivon watch the TV, and then Garrison stands and

pays the bill.

As they leave, the camera holds on the image of Oswald.

MISSISSIPPI RIVER WATERFRONT - TWILIGHT(1963)

The sun is setting through thunderheads over the Mississippi

River waterfront as Banister and Martin wobble out, drunk,

down the street.

BANISTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT(1963)

Rain pours down outside 531 Lafayette Street as Banister

opens several locks on the door and turns on the lights.

The frosted glass on the door says "W. Guy Banister

Associates, Inc., Investigators."  It's a typical detective's

office with spare desks, simple chairs, large filing cabinets

and cubicles in the rear.

Banister, going to a file cabinet to get a bottle out, notices

one of the file drawers is slightly ajar.  He flies into a

rage.

Enraged, Banister pulls a .357 Magnum from his holster,

cursing as he suddenly slams it into Martin's temple.  The

smaller man crumples painfully to the ground.

JIM GARRISON'S HOME - THAT NIGHT(1963)

Jim and his wife, Liz, watch the television.  She is in her

early 30's, an attractive, quiet southern woman from

Louisiana.  They live in a spacious two-story wood house,

suburban in feel.

TELEVISION IMAGE: Reporters are jammed in the Assembly Room

of the Dallas Police Headquarters as Oswald is brought through

the corridor, officers on either side of him.

The camera moves onto Jim with Liz and the children - Jasper,

the oldest at 4, holds his dad's hand.  On Liz's lap, Snapper,

the youngest, is asleep.  Virginia, the 2-year-old, is

pestering the Boxer dog... and Mattie, the heavyset black

housekeeper, 35, is in tears.

TELEVISION IMAGE: Oswald in front of the cameras, on a

platform.

Oswald seems shocked.

Oswald looks over and spots Ruby in the back of the room, on

a table.  Recognition is in his eyes.  The police start to

move him out.

Jim is moved by her.

TELEVISION IMAGE: Texas D.A. Henry Wade addresses the

journalists.

Jim moves to the phone as Liz starts the kids up the stairs.

The TV cuts to stills of Oswald's life.  Two newsmen sit in

a studio, smoking, sharing information.

TELEVISION IMAGES: Kennedy's casket coming off the plane in

Washington D.C. play under the newsman... Jackie stands there

in her blood-spotted dress... we cut to the photograph of

L.B.J. taking the oath of office earlier that day... and a

still photo of Robert Kennedy's reaction...

GARRISON CONFERENCE ROOM - 2 DAYS LATER - DAY(1963)

Jim is with his key players: Lou Ivon, chief investigator;

Susie Cox, in her 30's, and efficient, attractive Assistant

D.A.; La Oser, Assistant D.A. in his 40's, serious,

spectacled; Bill Broussard, Assistant D.A., handsome,

volatile, in his 30's; Numa Bertell, D.A. in his 30's, chubby

and friendly, and several others.  They sit around a

conference table with a black-and-white portable TV on a

side table showing the current Sunday, November 24 news from

Dallas.

Camera moves to Lou Ivon, looking at paperwork.

Oswald was seen with him several times last summer.

On the TV we see the first image of the "backyard photos" of

Lee Harvey Oswald holding the rifle.

The camera moves back to the staff, who watch, obviously

influenced.

Members of the team exchange looks of surprise and disbelief.

TELEVISION IMAGE: The basement of the Dallas police

headquarters - waiting.  Men mill around as Oswald is led

out of the basement by two deputies.  Jack Ruby rushes forward

out of the crowd - and into history - putting his sealing

bullet into Oswald.  Total chaos erupts...

The camera is on the staff, looking.  We hear gasps.

Jim is silent.

We see images of Oswald being lifted onto the stretcher,

into the ambulance, and the newscaster crouching, whispering.

Everybody in the room is stunned still.

They look to Jim.  There's a pause.  He is deeply disturbed.

GARRISON OFFICE - NEXT DAY - DAY(1963)

The portable television plays to Jim alone, sitting in his

chair smoking a pipe.  We see searing images of the funeral -

crowds of mourners, the casket being driven through the

streets, the honor guards, the horses, the dignitaries walking

behind, Jackie veiled... the faces of De Gaulle, MacMillan,

Robert Kennedy.  We intercut briefly to Lyndon Johnson sitting

down earlier that day with the Joint Chiefs of Staff... and

then a future cut to Johnson in the Oval Office (staged).

The shots are very tight, uncomfortable - noses, eyes, hands -

very tight.

As the door opens following a knock, David Ferrie is brought

into Jim's office by two police officers and Lou Ivon.  Jim

stands up, cordial.

Ferrie suffers from alopecia, a disease that has removed all

his body hair, and he looks like a Halloween character -

penciled eyebrows, one higher than the other, a scruffy

reddish wig pasted on askew with glue, thrift store clothing.

His eyes, however, are swift and cunning, his smile warm,

inviting itself, his demeanor hungry to please.

Ferrie glimpses the low-volumed TV - and images of the

funeral.  He looks away, jittery, and takes out a cigarette.

Sharon brings the coffee in.

Lou and the two cops escort Ferrie out of the office as Jim

turns to the television image of Kennedy's final moments of

rest.  The bugler plays taps.  John Jr., 3 years old, in an

image which will become famous, salutes his Dad farewell.

The riderless horse stands lonely against the Washington

sky.

FBI OFFICE - NEW ORLEANS - NEXT DAY(1963)

At a small press conference, the FBI spokesman reads a

statement.

GARRISON'S OFFICE - SIMULTANEOUS WITH PREVIOUS SCENE

In Garrison's office see the same broadcast, on the portable

television.  Lou, Broussard, Numa and Jim watch.

Lou looks at Jim, angry.

He reaches to turn off the TV and get back to work.  The

last image on the TV is:

Jim flicks the TV off as the overture ends.

AERIAL SHOT - WASHINGTON, D.C. - DAY(1966)

We look down at the White House from the plane's point of

view.  A subtitle reads: "THREE YEARS LATER."

INTERIOR OF PLANE

Jim, now 46, reads the front page of THE WASHINGTON POST

which details the latest battle in Vietnam.  He sits next to

Senator Long from Louisiana, in his 50's, who's drinking a

whiskey.  They're on a crowded businessman's shuttle.  We

see a close-up of a newspaper article about the Vietnam war:

"more troops asked by Westmoreland."

The stewardess brings more drinks.

Russell looks at Jim quizzically and laughs.

GARRISON'S STUDY - NIGHT(1966)

The study is lined with bookshelves up to the ceiling; we

see photos of family, a chess set.  Jim, smoking his pipe,

reads in a red leather chair from one of the 26 thick Warren

Commission volumes piled all over the place.  Liz enters.

Jasper, now 7, draws on a piece of paper on the floor at

Jim's feet.

GARRISON DINING ROOM - (1966)

Two-year-old Elizabeth watches "Crusader Rabbit" on TV as

the new one-year-old sits in diapers with Liz at one end of

the dinner table.  Jim sits at the other end.  There are

five kids now, ages 7, 5, 4, 2 and 1... and Mattie, the

housekeeper.  Dinner's finished, they pass plates, the

children horse around... the boxer dog, Touchdown, begs for

a piece of the action.  Jim, not a big eater, feeds him ice

cream.

Virginia and Snapper each get one of Jim's shoes as he dances

with them, holding one with each hand.

As the children dance, they fall off Jim's feet, laughing

and giggling.  He throws each in the air and kisses them.

Liz comes over, smiling.  Jim takes her in his arms.

GARRISON STUDY - LATER THAT NIGHT(1966)

The clock on mantelpiece reads 3 A.M.  Jim is alone, smoking

his pipe.

In the stillness, his mind crawls all over the place.  The

camera closes on the thickly-worded pages of the Warren

Report.

FLASHBACK TO the Warren Commission hearing room in Dallas,

1964.  We hear thin, echoey sound as the attorneys question

some of the witnesses.

The overall effect is vague and confusing, as is much of the

Warren Report.  A Mr. Ball is questioning Lee Bowers, the

switchman in the railroad yard.  Bowers, in his early 40's,

has a trustworthy, working-man face and a crew cut.

Jim, upset, reads on... Another witness, Sgt. D.V. Harkness

of the Dallas Police responds to a second attorney.

We see another FLASHBACK - to the Dallas rail yards on the

day of the assassination.  Three hoboes are being pulled off

the freight by the Dallas policemen.

FLASHBACK TO Dealey Plaza an hour or less after the

assassination.  The three hoboes are marched by shotgun-toting

policemen to the Sheriff's office at Dealey Plaza.  We note

that they do not look much like hoboes.

The camera's point of view is now from the railroad tower

near Dealey Plaza.  We are fourteen feet off the ground,

overlooking the parking lot behind the Grassy Knoll.  The

shot includes this last car circling in the lot.

Inside the railroad tower, Bowers glances out, busy with the

main board, flashing lights, a train coming in.

We see the parking lot from Bower's point of view - at a

distance, but we have a sense of the cars and see the men at

a distance, tow uniformed men.  The parking lot is bumper-to-

bumper with a sea of cars.  Rain that morning has muddied

the lot.  These brief images are elaborated on later.

We feel the growing intensity: music, drums - but all blurred.

We see a puff of smoke but no sound because of the window

Bowers is glancing through.  A motorcycle cop shoots up the

Grassy Knoll incline.  People run, blurring into a larger

mosaic of confusion.  Bowers is confused, seeing this.

INTERCUT with Jim's heart pounding as he reads.

Back in Dealey Plaza, S.M. Holland, an elderly signal

supervisor, stands on the parapet of the railway.

We see the scene from Holland's point of view - the puff of

smoke lingering under the trees along the picket fence after

the shooting.

GARRISON BEDROOM - ANOTHER NIGHT(1966)

Jim is asleep, having a tortured dream.

DREAMSCAPE FLASHBACK: We see the Zapruder film, in slow-motion

and J.F.K.'s face just before he goes behind Stemmons Freeway

sign.  Jim sits up suddenly.

Liz stirs, shaken.

She takes him now, gently, and pulls him down on top of her

and kisses him.

LAFAYETTE SQUARE - NEW ORLEANS - MORNING(1966)

A Sunday, early.  We see a statue of Ben Franklin in an empty

square frequented by drunks who doze on benches in a little

leafy park in the center of the Square.  The camera moves to

Jim by himself and then moves to a sedan, pulling up, which

disgorges Lou Ivon and Bill Broussard.

TIME CUT TO Jim indicating 531 Lafayette Street, a seedy,

faded, three-story building across the street from the square.

FLASHBACK TO the exterior of the Banister Office on a day in

1963.  The door is now clearly labelled "W. GUY BANISTER,

INC. INVESTIGATORS."  It opens and Banister comes out in

slow motion, neatly dressed, rose in his lapel - the same

office and same man we saw three years before when he pistol-

whipped Jack Martin.  Banister seems to be smiling right at

us, greeting us.

Back to the Lafayette Square of 1966.  Jim walks Ivon and

Bill to the corner, to another entrance to the same building -

this one with a sign that says "544 Camp Street."

Bill studies the present sign: "Crescent City Dental

Laboratory", and gives Jim a puzzled look.

Lou gets it and glances up.  We FLASHBACK TO the exterior of

544 Camp Street in 1963.  Lee Oswald comes out the door into

a full close-up, now clearly seen by us, and heads out into

the street as Guy Banister intercepts him on the sidewalk,

holding a leaflet and point to "544 Camp Street stamped on

it.  Guy seems miffed at Oswald, tells him something quickly,

and then moves on.

FLASHBACK to Canal Street in New Orleans on a summer day in

1963.  Oswald, in a thin tie and white short-sleeved shirt,

and wearing a homemade placard reading "Hands Off Cuba";

"Viva Fidel!", is hawking leaflets to pedestrians with two

young helpers.

A large white-haired businessman in a white suit, very

distinguished, walks with a friend on Canal Street.  Oswald

glances at him and meets his eyes.  The businessman enters

an office building.  This man is Clay Bertrand, later known

as Clay Shaw.

Some Cubans, led by Carols Bringuier, now appear.  One of

them, "the Bull", is heavy-set with dark glasses.  More of

him will also be seen.

Carlos throws Oswald's leaflets in the air and pulls off his

glasses, prepared to fight.  Oswald only smiles, and puts

his arms down in an X of passivity.

There is no real fight, but the police, as if pre-alerted,

arrive.

Arrests are made.  We see Oswald in a room in the police

station, talking with FBI Agent John Quigley.  A calendar on

the wall shows that it's August, 1963.

In a television studio in 1963, Oswald debates Carlos

Bringuier with two moderators.

Back in 1966, Jim walks with his two assistants.

We see the Post Office building across the street.

Jim makes a gesture encompassing the whole Square.

RACETRACK - DAY(1966)

A straggly group of people watch from the grandstands eating

hotdogs and talking in small clusters.  The horses are running

early morning laps.  Three men sit apart in the bleachers.

A scared Jack Martin, three years older than when last seen,

still wearing the Dick Tracy hat, sucks up coffee like a

worm does moisture.  He has the red puffy cheeks of an

alcoholic and deeply circled, worried eyes.  Bill and Jim

wait.

What I need is a little clarification about the night Guy

Banister beat you over the head with his Magnum.  You called

our office hopping mad from your hospital bed.  Don't tell

me you don't remember that?

Jack looks away and doesn't respond.

SUDDEN FLASHBACK to the night of the pistol-whipping.  The

camera shows Banister laying Martin's head open / the beating

the humiliation.

Bill looks at Jim.

FLASHBACK to Banister's office in 1963.  There are Cubans in

battle fatigues and combat boots; duffle bags are lying

around.  David Ferrie, in fatigues, directs the Cubans as

they carry crates of ammunition and weapons into a back room.

Martin observes from another desk.

Still in 1963, we see the exterior of Banister's office.  A

dozen Cubans follow Ferrie downstairs into the street, and

pile into several cars, duffels thrown in with them.  Ferrie

drives the lead car.

We see the cars cross the long Lake Pontchartrain Bridge and

enter a remote guerrilla training camp.  Bayou and jungle

are all around.

At the guerrilla training camp at Lake Pontchartrain in 1963,

we see scenes of basic training - shooting, obstacle courses,

callisthenics - led by Ferrie and other trainers.  Scattered

among the Cubans are several white American mercenaries.  We

catch a glimpse of Oswald and glimpses of several other men

we will see again, in sprinklings.

It's night at the training camp.  FBI agents race up in cars

in the middle of the night, swarming over the camp, rounding

up the trainees.

We see FBI agents loading dynamite, bomb casings, arms 155mm

artillery shells, etc.

Back at the racetrack in 1966, Jim listens.

Martin hesitates.  We hear the rhythmic beating of the horse

hooves and Martin sucking on the steaming cup of coffee.

FLASHBACK TO Banister's office in 1963.  Banister and Martin

shooting the breeze as the straight-laced middle-aged

secretary, Delphine Roberts, hurries in.

Banister just looks at her and laughs.

Back at the racetrack...

FLASHBACK to Banisters office on a day in 1963.  Martin is

snooping in Banister's files.  Cut to Martin leaving the

office as a big businessman with white hair briefly talks to

Oswald and then goes into Banister's private office.

Banister lets the man into his private office.

Martin picks his way nervously down the bleacher benches.

CAR - FRENCH QUARTER - DAY(1966)

Jim drives, with Numa in the front and Bill in the back.

Jim pulls the car over to park.

FRENCH QUARTER SIDEWALK - DAY(1966)

Jim and the others get out of the car and head towards

Antoine's Restaurant.  A black woman greets him.

She laughs.  Others move in on him.

ANTOINE'S RESTAURANT - DAY(1966)

They enter a busy lunchtime crowd in an elegant eatery.  Lou

Ivon and Al Oser are waiting for them as they're shown to

their table by the Maitre d'.

Lou's been waiting, excited.  He gives Jim blowups of the

five hobo photographs.

The camera moves in on the photographs.

FLASHBACK TO the "hoboes" being escorted to the Sheriff's

office - as per Sgt. Harkness' earlier description.

Susie Cox arrives.

How 'bout that railroad man, Lee Bowers?  Saw those men at

the picket fence?

She talked to a cop from a hospital bed two days before the

assassination, said Kennedy would be hit that Friday.  She

said she was a dope runner for Jack Ruby and that Ruby knew

Oswald for years...

FLASHBACK to Rose lying dead on an empty highway.

Jack Ruby's been rotting in a Dallas jail cell for three

years.  Maybe he's ready to crack?

FLASHBACK TO Moscow in 1959.  We see shots of the city -

strange and eerie black-and-white stills.  Inside the U.S.

Embassy Oswald slaps his passport on the table with a formal

letter.  Two consuls attend him.

Continuing the Moscow flashback, we see Oswald talking with

a female journalist in his small room in the Hotel Metropole.

Again he sounds robotic.

We see photos of the city of Minks, in Russia, Oswald with

various friends and tourists, shots of Lee and Marina with a

new baby.

We see documentary shots of the U2 on Russian soil... Francis

Gary Powers... The Summit Conference canceled... Eisenhower

and Khrushchev.

The screen shows photos of New York: Empty docks... a ship

coming in... Wall Street on a Sunday morning - Graphic Weegee-

type black-and-white stills, then a photo of Spas T. Raikin.

FLASHBACK TO a Forth Worth map factory.  We see Oswald at

work on photo mattes with a Minox spy camera.  The camera

shows close-ups of maps and then flashes to a hand in the

photographic section.  We see a close-up of Oswald's head in

a photograph - the same headshot that will be superimposed

on the Oswald photo - and a razor blade cutting mattes.

FLASHBACK TO Fort Worth in 1963.  In Oswald's cheap apartment,

seven White Russians, including George de Mohrenschildt, a

distinguished grey-haired man in his late fifties, are

visiting Marina and Oswald, bringing old dresses, groceries,

and toys and milk for the crying baby, whose cradle is two

suitcases.

We see Oswald and de Mohrenschildt talking with the others

and a magazine cover with J.F.K. the subject of discussion.

TIME CUT TO Oswald's apartment on a different day in 1963.

George de Mohrenschildt points out a Mannlicher-Carcano rifle

in the closet, turns to Lee.

Lee's look is sickly.  He freezes up.

RESUME scene of White Russian gathering in Oswald's apartment.

Anna Meller, one of the guests, glances at a copy of Das

Kapital in a pile of books, and talks to another Russian man

about it... Talking now to Lee and Marina are Janet and Bill

Williams, a mid-American couple in their late twenties,

freshly minted.

We see Oswald and another man in the Texas School Book

Depository in 1963.  They are hauling and stacking school

textbooks - an obviously lower-level job for Oswald after

the map factory.  We cut ahead to empty graphics of the sealed

off area, the window site, the cafeteria.

We see the interior of the Williams' home in Irving on a day

in 1963.

We see Marina and Oswald in bed at night in the Williams'

house, in a tender scene.  Oswald says goodbye to his child.

TIME CUT TO Oswald living in a boarding house.  It is at

night, and he sits in his room alone.  The housekeeper,

Earlene Roberts, heavyset, white, in her 60's, comes in and

asks him if he wants to watch some TV with her.  He declines.

FLASHBACK TO Marina on TV, a different person from before.

BACK TO Antoine's Restaurant.

We see blank faces around the table.

MEDICAL UNIT - JAIL - DAY(1966)

Jack Ruby, thick fudge of an angry face, flu-ridden, confronts

a doctor and two guards in his cell.

Ruby looks over at the two guards, who eye him.  The Doctor

gives him the injection.

FLASHBACK TO Ruby's jail cell in 1964.  Ruby talks to men

with their backs to us.  Lawyers and police clutter the cell,

making Ruby hyper-nervous.  The chief official's white hair

and avuncular voice are all we see and hear of him; his back

is to us.

Ruby catches the stern face of Sheriff Bill Decker from the

corner of his eye, the Assistant D.A. next to him.

The camera pauses on Ruby's face.  The men rise and leave in

the shadows.

PARKLAND MEMORIAL HOSPITAL - (1967)

Jack Ruby is escorted out of the infirmary, dead of cancer.

BROUSSARD'S RESTAURANT - NEW ORLEANS - (1967)

The puffy, smiling face of Dean Andrews, framed by huge black

glasses, talks in a Louisiana hippie argot of the 50's.  The

restaurant has a fancy French decor, mirrored walls, marble -

it serves the cream of Louisiana society.

Sudden FLASHBACK to Andrews' office on a day in 1963.  Clay

Bertrand sits, back to us, talking to Andrews.  He has close-

cropped white hair.  He is the same patrician man we've seen

earlier with Oswald on Canal Street and in Banister's office.

Andrews is evidently lying.

Jim, in present, looking briefly - a pretty girl walking in.

FLASHBACK TO Andrews' office on another day in 1963.  We

catch a glimpse of a young swish sitting in Andrew's office

talking on the phone.  Andrews is also on the phone to

Bertrand, unseen, on the other end.

FLASHBACK TO a third day at Andrew's office in 1963.  Oswald

is in the office with two young boys.

As Andrews resumes eating his crabmeat Louie with gusto, Jim

reaches over and grabs the fork in mid-air.

Andrews puts down the fork, shaken, silent for a moment.

At a nearby table, a waiter has just poured brandy on Crepe

Suzettes.  A blue flame hovers in the air as Jim leans forward

across the table, speaking deliberately.

Andrews stands suddenly.

Andrews drops his pink napkin in the crabmeat and waddles

out.  Jim now feels closer to the truth than ever.

ANGOLA PRISON - LOUISIANA COUNTRYSIDE - (1967)

From the point of view of an approaching car, the prison

looms over the swamp, dogs patrolling the wire.

PRISON DORMITORY - (1967)

A chief guard walks Jim and Bill into a circus-like

atmosphere.  In Louisiana the prisoners can wear any outfit

they choose, which makes this prison look like Mardi Gras.

There are many transvestites.

Willie O'Keefe, a handsome, muscled, young chickenhawk with

an earring, bandana, colorful clothes, an aura of burned

truth in his intense, staring brown eyes and thick country

accent, sashays over.

TIMECUT TO the prison work area, where Willie talks, leaning

against a tree looking out on a mangrove swamp.  It's lunch

break and other prisoners move in the background, eating,

socializing.

FLASHBACK TO the Masquerade Bar in the French Quarter.  It's

nighttime and Ferrie, Bertrand and O'Keefe sit at a back

booth.  Bertrand, as seen earlier, is an imposing, white-

haired patrician man, over six feet tall, heavily defined

bones and eyelids, in his late 40's or early 50's.

They rise to leave.  Bertrand with a slight limp.

FLASHBACK TO Dave Ferrie's apartment on a night in 1963.

The place is filled messy bricabrac, including two dozen

mouse cages for Ferrie's cancer experiments.  Ferrie,

Bertrand, O'Keefe, and four Cubans in battle fatigues are

laughing and fooling around.  Oswald is in a corner cleaning

a .22 rifle with a scope on it.  He looks different, unkempt,

unshaven.  A record player grinds out a speech in Spanish by

Castro.  Some other people are there as well - it's a beatnik

scene: sandals, hanging out, only one woman.  Ferrie is taking

pictures throughout of the group horsing around, photographing

Oswald.

Ferrie separates them.  Oswald seems to resent an outsider

being there.

TIMECUT TO later that night, when only O'Keefe, Ferrie,

Bertrand, Oswald and three Cubans are left.

Oswald looks up, listens quietly.

Bertrand with his arms around O'Keefe, laughs, tries to change

the subject.

Oswald listens, playing with his rifle.  Bertrand suddenly

turns cold, flashing a look at Ferrie.

BACK TO the prison work area.  Jim and O'Keefe continue

talking.

As he talks, Jim shares a sickened look with Bill.  Whatever

truth he may be telling is necessarily compromised by an

attitude that could be destroyed in court.

GARRISON HOME - NIGHT(1967)

Jim, Lou, Al, Susie, and Numa sit around the table having an

after hours conference.  The kids run in and out of the room,

playing.  Susie is doing the talking, showing new paperwork

and photos.

FLASHBACK TO the Lincoln-Mercury dealership.  Oswald is

deliberately kept in half or three quarter shots - a mystery

figure.  He kicks the tires on a used red Mercury Comet,

cocky.

Let's take it out for a test drive.

The salesman, Bogard, is hesitant.  "Oswald" doesn't look

like he's got a dime to his name.

In the next scene we see the car, driven by "Oswald", zooming

up the ramp and disappearing onto the freeway.

Resume the scene at the dealership.

"Oswald", unhappy, starts to leave.

FLASHBACK TO a Dallas firing range in 1963.

FLASHBACK TO the corridor of Silvia Odio's apartment in Dallas

on a night in 1963.  Oswald drags behind two Cubans - one is

"the Bull", heavyset with a scar over his left eye, who we

saw at the Canal Street incident, and the other, "the Indian",

is quiet and cold.  The men ring the doorbell and talk to a

concerned Silvia as Oswald hangs back, watching, in the

shadows.  The men give her intimate information about her

father, who is imprisoned in Cuba.  The men chatter ad lib

in Spanish.

We see a shot of Silvia on the phone in her apartment intercut

with a shot of "the Bull" in a gas station phone booth, on a

night in 1963.

Silvia Odio is surprised to hear this information volunteered.

"The Bull's" eyes are on "Oswaldo", outside the booth with

"the Indian".  They're hanging out, talking to a mystery

man, an Anglo.

Jim looks at the famous photo... the camera closes in on a

heavyset man who looks nothing like Oswald.  Liz has come

back in and overhears.

Susie picks up the famous Life magazine cover shot of Oswald

holding a rifle in his backyard.

FLASHBACK TO the Dallas Homicide Office in 1963.  Oswald is

being interrogated by Will Fritz, Dallas Homicide Chief, who

shows him the original of the photo from the Williams garage.

We see a blowup of the photo - the shadows, the crop mark.

FRENCH QUARTER - SAME NIGHT(1967)

Broussard walks past a jazz wake leaving the cemetery - black

flambeurs carry torches, people sing "When the Saints Go

Marching in".  Bill is with a local gambler type.

BACK AT GARRISON'S HOME -(1967)

The staff members, anxious to go home, have all risen... and

now sigh.

They all raise their hands as Bill walks in, excited.

They all stop, look.

Liz Garrison is the most shaken, as she pours a fresh pot of

coffee.

Liz walks out of the room silent.  There is a tense pause.

GARRISON'S LIVING ROOM - EASTER SUNDAY(1967)

The TV is on to the latest Vietnam Reports - combat footage.

Liz plays with the kids looking for Easter eggs.  The dog is

barking - it's a scene of commotion.  Jim is getting ready

to go out.

As he leaves, the camera holds on Liz.

GARRISON OFFICE - (1967)

Clay Shaw ("Bertrand"), in an elegant white summer suit, is

shown in.  Indeed, there is a slight limp to his gait which

Jim notices right away.

He shares a look with Bill.  Susie is also in the room.

Shaw's rich bassoon voice drips with dialect.  Imperiously

smoking a Gaulois, Shaw has about him an air of authority

matched only by Jim's.

FLASHBACK TO Clay's Dauphine Street residence, in the Quarter,

at night in 1962.  The butler opens the door and O'Keefe is

admitted to the townhouse.  Shaw appears behind the butler.

At Shaw's house, dinner is served at a long table by the

black butler.  The table is decorated by a sumptuous setting

of silver and candelabra.

Shaw uses a bell to summon the butler.

Willie O'Keefe and Clay Shaw leave the dining table.

At Shaw's townhouse, we see Ferrie coming in, with another

young chicken.

We see the four men in drag, smiling for the flash camera,

champagne bottles in hand.  Ferrie sniffs some poppers, then

shoves a popper in Shaw's face.

Ferrie forces more poppers on Shaw.  The camera movies to

Shaw's bedroom, where Ferrie scatters a drawer full of leather

tools.

BACK TO Garrison's office.

Jim is getting incredibly irritated.  He feels Shaw is lying.

CUT TO Antoine's Restaurant, where Liz and all five kids

look at menus.

BACK TO Garrison's office later that day.  Everyone looks

tired as the questioning goes on.  Shaw sucks on endless

Gauloises.

Jim shows Shaw a newspaper clipping.

Shaw glares at him.  Silence.

Susie and Bill quiet Jim down.

GARRISON'S HOME THAT NIGHT (1967)

Jim walks in, contrite.  Liz is shutting down the house.

Some of the kids are still up.

GARRISON'S OFFICE HALLWAY - MORNING(1967)

Jim, is coming down the corridor with Broussard, is confronted

by some 20 local journalists and TV crew members.  We hear a

hubbub of fierce questioning - ad libs but Jim, puzzled,

brushes by, seeking refuge in his office.  Lou, Al, Numa and

Susie are all waiting for him.  The regular staff - some 30

people - are looking, wondering.  Lou presents him with the

front page of the New Orleans States-Item.

We see a close-up of the headline: "D.A. LAUNCHES FULL J.F.K.

DEATH PLOT PROBE - Mysterious Trips Cost Large Sums."

INSIDE GARRISON'S OFFICE

Jim, at his desk, finishes reading the article.  A huge

picture of him is on the front page.  He puts down the paper,

reaching for a long, gold pen that is part of the desk set.

They look at each other.

No takers.

Everyone waits.  Jim stands, repacks his briefcase with papers

and reference books and heads for the back door elevator.

LOU IVON'S APARMTENT - NEW ORLEANS -(1967)

Lou drinks a beer in front of the TV news in his small

bachelor apartment.  A fan is blowing.

The phone rings and Ivon picks it up.

We see Ferrie in a phone booth on the street outside his

apartment house in the French Quarter.  He's a nervous wreck,

watching the reporters and TV cameras surrounding his place,

waiting for him.

Ferrie hangs up.  Pause.  At his end, Lou Ivon hangs up,

excited.

GARRISON'S HOME - NIGHT(1967)

The phone rings.  Liz picks it up.  Jim is watching the TV

news:  Martin Luther King is delivering a speech against the

Vietnam War.

The phone rings again.

FONTAINBLEAU HOTEL SUITE - THAT NIGHT

Jim and Lou watch as Ferrie paces wildly, speeding.

As Lou picks up the phone and orders room service, Jim

answers.

Lou writes it down.  Seeing him writing makes Ferrie even

more paranoid.

He feels Lou for bugs, but out of a sense of hierarchy,

ignores Jim.  He checks around the room - the phone, behind

paintings, flower vase, light fixtures - as the batty

conversation continues:

Room service knocks, and Ferrie jumps and rushes to the

bathroom.

Jim whispers something and Lou goes to the door, takes the

service table without letting the bellhop in.  Jim, excited

but trying to stay even, continues with Ferrie.

FLASHBACK TO Ferrie at the party with Oswald (obscured) per

Willie O'Keefe's witness.  Jim, in the present, doesn't feel

right about it.

He bows his head, holding it in his hands, and his wig starts

to come off in his hands.

There's a long silence.  Ferrie, spent, stares at Jim.  He's

about to crack, but...

His eyes are going again.  Deals... intrigue - thru the tears.

Lou and Jim share a look.

CORRIDOR OF GARRISON'S OFFICE - A FEW DAYS LATER(1967)

A mob scene.  Press from the U.S. and all over the world are

filling the corridor.  A French reporter tries to get past

the receptionist as Numa passes him with a stack of mail.

Also in the hall are many individual citizens who have come

to give tips and theories.  One of them is dressed as Satan

in a red jump suit with mask, horns, tail and a pitchfork.

A mailman, black, comes through lugging three sacks of mail.

A camera moves by into the interior offices.

MONTAGE OF OFFICE SHOTS:

Bill escorts him out before he gets the chance to sit down,

and then heads for Jim's office.

Jim is reading Newsweek, deeply hurt.  There are newspapers

all over his desk.

Bill has come in during this, completely frazzled.

Numa pulls a dollar bill from the envelope.

Jim is moved.  Bill is not.

Sharon has come in during this, signalling to Jim.

Sharon shows in Mr. Miller, the Denver oilman.  He's a self-

assured, impressive man in his 50's with a western accent,

cowboy boots and hat, and a well-cut gabardine suit.

Numa leaves.  Bill indicates he'd like to sit in.  Jim nods

okay.  Miller pays no attention to Bill.

Jim has gathered together a group of photos of the shooting.

Sharon bringing the coffee.

He glances at the photo but continues on across the room,

looking at the pictures on the walls.

We see a blurry blowup of something behind the picket fence.

Miller takes the photo, glances at it and sits down.

Jim expectant of some help.  A pause.  Then:

The clock is ticking.  Jim shares a look with Bill.  The

cards are on the table.

Miller smiles, stands, paces the room.  He continues to ignore

Bill completely.

He leans forward across Jim's desk, tapping his manicured

index finger on the desk.  Clearly visible to Jim and to us

(in a close-up) is Miller's Annapolis ring tapping.

Jim's eyes go to Bill.  He could be wrong, but it's almost

as if Bill were going along with the idea now.

Jim leans back, puts his feet up on the corner of the desk,

waving them like fans.  Bill waits.

Miller waits.  Bill waits.  Jim comes forward with his reply.

Miller's entire demeanor tightens into a corkscrew of anger

and danger.

Bill has a strange reaction - a sudden exhalation of breath

as if an entire house of cards were collapsing.  He rises,

but Miller goes first, leaving silently.  Once he's gone,

Bill turns wearily to Jim.

GARRISON'S CONFERENCE ROOM - ANOTHER DAY(1967)

The staff is assembled.  We see the headline in the Times-

Picayune, which says: "FERRIE CALLS GARRISON PROBE A WITCH

HUNT."

Numa rushes in with a young investigator, Williams -

displaying a miniature microphone.

Numa makes violent signals to shut up - not to talk - sticking

the microphone in front of Jim.  Williams searches the walls

for the bug.  Numa signals everyone outside.

The whole staff from the conference room reacts.  Jim looks

stunned.

Sharon has been standing there trying to get Lou's attention.

Lou goes to the phone.

Everyone laughs, but the camera goes to the look of shock on

Lou's face as he holds the receiver.  They all look over at

him; feeling the bad news before they hear it.

Jim's look says "There goes the case."

OUTSIDE FERRIE'S APARTMENT - FRENCH QUARTER(1967)

Jim and his staff storm into the area, which is cordoned off

by police.

Members of the press are all over, yelling questions at Jim.

INSIDE FERRIE'S APARTMENT

The apartment is filthy and sinister.  Hundreds of mice squeal

in their cages, upset by the invasion of men and light.

Nothing seems to have been washed in years.  There is an

accumulation of furniture, college pennants, photos of young

boys in training, books everywhere, ammunition, guns, a piano,

maps, fake college degrees on the walls.  Ferrie's naked

body lies on the couch with a sheet over it.  He is unwigged,

his eyebrows unpainted, false teeth next to him.  Jim studies

the corpse as the coroner comes alongside.

Jim picks several empty, capless medicine bottles on a table

next to the sofa and looks at them.  Lou and Bill come over

with a typed suicide note.

The words from the note hang there weirdly, as Jim paces on

into the apartment, one of them medicine bottles in his hand.

The music grows, and a sinister feel of danger and death

pervades the atmosphere.  Then the sounds drop away.

CLOSET IN FERRIE'S APARTMENT

Jim runs an eye through Dave's closet, cluttered with shabby

jackets.

His eye falls on a neat but faded lace and satin, some sort

of garment of priestly origin, he takes it in his hand.

Susie Cox walks in, a new message written on her face.

Jim's mood darkens, and he heads back into the living room

as Ferrie's corpse is being trundled out the door.  The

sickness is everywhere; an oppressive mood.  Bill comes up.

Jim, feeling ill, wanting to leave, stops the coroner before

he exits...

OUTSIDE FERRIE'S APARTMENT THAT SAME NIGHT

As Jim, questioned by reporters, gets in his car and leaves,

Bill waves goodbye to Lou and walks toward his own car,

dejected.  The area is cordoned off and humming with activity.

Frank, an FBI man who knows Bill from previous cases,

approaches him out of the crowd.  He wears a hat, suit, and

tie.

This gets Bill's attention.

Bill, taken aback, listens.

WASHINGTON D.C. - PARK(1967)

Jim walks down from the Lincoln Memorial, where he is met

unobtrusively by a military man in his 50's in casual

clothing, hat on his head, an erect posture.  They walk

towards the Mall, with the Capitol building looming in the

background.

The man doesn't answer.  Jim, after his meeting with Miller

and loss of Ferrie, is testy and suspicious.

Something about his manner speaks of authority, knowledge,

and above all, old-fashioned honesty - the eyes looking at

you straight on.  He indicates a bench.

FLASHBACK TO the Pentagon offices in 1963.  X strides down a

busy hall and into the offices of one of his superiors, Major

General Y, a lean, cold warrior, battlefield handsome,

civilian clothes, and several advisors.  There's a U.S. flag

on the wall.  The status of Y is only clear by the sing on

the desk, the name blocked by a passing figure.

We hear vague ad-lib mutterings on the soundtrack indicating

a friendly atmosphere, and we see stock footage of a C-130

transport flying to Antarctica and ice floes on the surface

of the sea.

Then, at a New Zealand airport, we see X, in a uniform, at a

newsstand reading of Kennedy's assassination.  The banner

headline of an "Extra" edition of The Christchurch Star

screams out "KENNEDY SHOT DEAD."

Back at the Pentagon office, we see X returning and meeting

Y.  The atmosphere is cordial, but Y is slightly different

from before - more harried, more nervous.  He turns away to

light a cigarette, he doesn't want the usual conversation.

We see an outdoor shot of the Texas Army Headquarters on a

day in 1963.  Inside, on the same day, Col. Reich is on the

phone, puzzled.

In Dealey Plaza, 1963, we see an Army intelligence man taking

a shot with a Minolta camera.

The camera is on Jim, listening.  This information is much

greater than he ever envisioned, and he is stunned.  X pauses.

FLASHBACK TO the Pentagon offices on a day in 1961.  A

document is moved by hand into Lemnitzer's office where we

see a set of hands holding it while it's read.  There's a

look of surprise on Lemnitzer's face.

DOCUMENTARY IMAGES flash on the screen - Allen Dulles, sweet-

faced, smiling, at the Warren Commission Hearing and visiting

Dealey Plaza; General Charles Cabell and Richard Bissell...

At Arlington Cemetery on the same day, Jim visits the grave

of President Kennedy.  We see the eternal flame.  Jim thinks

about what he should do now.  The size of it stuns him.  He

is lost, reeling back to the past in his mind.

DISSOLVE TO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE of Dachau concentration camp:

thousands of bodies are piled and bulldozed... And then back

to Jim at Arlington Cemetery reliving it... only the enormity

of past evil can prepare him to confront present evil.  In a

strange way, it reassures him.

FLASHBACK TO the White House, 1963.  Lyndon Johnson is with

Henry Cabot Lodge.  We see them as shadowy figures from a

distance across the wide room, or near a veranda with a porch

and plenty of light.  Johnson, his back to us, talks in a

loud, thick Texas drawl (mostly muted) and signs a document.

In the park with X, Jim is staggered by all this information.

X ceases walking and looks at Jim.

Jim watches this mystery man walking away.  The figure

vanishes in the Washington breeze.  Flags flap over some

distant memorial to some distant history of the Republic.

Jim rises, a decision made.

EXTERIOR OF CLAY SHAW'S HOUSE - NEW ORLEANS(1967)

Jim, Lou, Al, Numa and several policemen stand at the door

as Clay Shaw comes to it.

The voice dropping away as the devastated look on Shaw's

face spreads, sickly, undone, his arrogant public composure

gone, face now filled with terror, disbelief.

The policemen take Shaw while the D.A. staff moves into the

carriage house past the butler, Frankie Jenkins.

NEW ORLEANS POLICE STATION

Shaw is being fingerprinted.  He seems rattled.  Police

officers try to get the press under control.

Habighorst notes it as routinely as Shaw seems to have said

it, without thinking, possibly preoccupied by thoughts of

press people pushing in.

MONTAGE - NEWSREEL MUSIC

We see a shot of the exterior of the Justice Department in

1967.

JUSTICE DEPARTMENT CONFERENCE ROOM

The acting Attorney General speaks to the press.

GARRISON'S OFFICE - CONFERENCE ROOM(1967)

Jim confronts a packed room.  Bill is with him.

We see a shot of the Supreme Court building in Washington,

D.C. and then a corridor inside the building.  A Chief

Justice, looking gray and wise like Earl Warren, moves along

the corridor in his black robe delivering his verdict to the

press.

In his own office, Jim responds to Justice Warren.

It doesn't play with the press.  They shuffle off, quiet,

whispering.

GARRISON'S HOUSE(1967)

Liz and Jim watch, silently devastated, as the NBC "WHITE

PAPER" unfolds, attacking Jim.  They can do nothing.  Liz

leaves the room, upset.

HOTEL SUITE - NEW ORLEANS(1967)

Julia Ann Mercer, 28, looks at Jim with sincere eyes.  Her

husband, a prosperous Republican businessman, watches from

the corner.  Jim - along with Al - has her testimony in front

of him.

FLASHBACK TO Dealey Plaza in 1963.  It's a normal scene -

cars, traffic, people starting to arrive for Kennedy's

appearance.  We catch a glimpse of Julia Ann Mercer, 23,

driving, then stopping traffic.

She glances over at the man in the driver's seat.  It's Jack

Ruby, wearing a green jacket.  Then she sees a young white

man in his mid - 20's, in a gray jacket, brown pants, plaid

shirt and wool stocking hat, getting out of the passenger

side, going to the rear of the van, opening a tool compartment

and removing a package that looks like a rifle wrapped in

paper.  He walks up the embankment in the direction of the

picket fence.  Ruby looks over and stares at Julia Ann, who

turns away and notices three police officers standing near a

motorcycle on the overpass bridge.  Her eyes lock with Ruby's

a second time and as the traffic moves, she drives on.

In the Dallas FBI office, Mercer sits at a table looking at

photos.  Two FBI agents stand near her showing her photos.

She shakes her head "no" several times, until they put a

shot of Jack Ruby in front of her.  She holds it up.

Back in the present, Jim continues to question Mercer.

Jim is silent.  Mercer picks up the report and finds the

pertinent paragraphs:

DALLAS CLUB - NIGHT(1967)

BEVERLY, a woman of ample proportions and a big, cute Texas

face, ex-club singer, meets with Jim and Lou Ivon in a

nightclub not unlike Ruby's Carousel.

Jada and Beverly sit down at the table with Ferrie, Oswald,

and Jack, with Jack doing the buying.  It's too loud to hear

anything.

THE CAMERA MOVES IN ON JADA

BACK TO the 1967 scene.

DISSOLVE TO DEALEY PLAZA(1967)

Our view is from the roof of the building on the extreme

south side of the Plaza.  J.C. Price, the building engineer,

in hat and overalls, points for Jim and Lou.

The camera tightens on the picket fence.

On the overpass near Dealey Plaza, S.M. Holland, a tan,

elderly, leather-faced signal supervisor, points to the picket

fence for Jim and Lou.  His accent is thick and rural.  We

saw him before, briefly, when Jim was reading the Warren

Report.

FLASHBACK TO the restaged shooting.  The smoke hangs under

the trees.

CUT TO Richard Dodd on the overpass.  He's a cowboy type

with a hat and an even thicker accent than Holland.

FLASHBACK to the motorcycle...

BACK TO 1967.  Jim and Lou walk with Dodd and Holland near

the picket fence.  We feel the emptiness of the area now and

see the normal amount of traffic driving by.

The camera shows the "spot" and Lou sighting.

Jim looks, reliving the moment.

Later Jim and Lou stand on the south side of Elm Street in

Dealey Plaza talking to Jean Hill, an attractive, 30-ish

teacher.  Her demeanor has a rock-solid Texas back-country

conviction to it; she's a woman not easily frightened.

We see a flash of the Moorman photograph - a blurry Polaroid

with the President in the foreground and the picket fence in

background.  We will return to this photograph in more detail

later.

FLASHBACK TO the day of the shooting.  We hear the sound of

shots and see the Grassy Knoll from Jean's point of view.

Blurry image - we're not at all sure what or who or if...

but a seed is planted.  We see smoke - the same smoke Bowers

saw... then Jack Ruby in a brown coat running from the Book

Depository toward the railroad tracks.  Then we see Jean's

view as she runs toward the Knoll along with others.  there

are yells, shouts, and general confusion.

At the picket fence, we see blurry images of police officers,

railroad workers, cigarette butts, buddy footprints,

confusion...

Two Secret Service types approach her suddenly, and one of

them puts an arm on her shoulder.

The two agents hustle her away.

Hill, 32 years old that day, is shown into a third floor

office of the County Courts Building - which has a view of

the assassination area.  Other Secret Service agents are

there.  Some 18 people are detained there.

TIME CUT TO two men interrogating Hill.

In a Parkland Hospital office in 1964, a lawyer interviews

Jean Hill.  A female stenographer takes notes.

Back at the Knoll.

DISSOLVE TO a scene inside the Texas School Book Depository

in 1967.  Jim and Lou walk the floor and look out the windows.

Lou has a Mannlicher-Carcano in his hand with a sight and

clip.  We see Oswald's supposed view of the limousine as he

pulls the trigger.  Now, innocuous traffic goes by, but the

iris of the camera tightens into a sniper's scope.

Lou cocks the Mannlicher for the first shot.  Jim looks at

this watch.

Lou assumes the Oswald pose, crouched at the window aiming

out.

Lou pulls, quickly recharges the bolt, fires, recycles, fires.

Jim points the Carcano south, right up Houston Street,

following a car that happens to be passing by - a convertible

with an unknown woman driving.

The camera swings to the Grassy Knoll and the picket fence

as seen from the sixth floor of the Depository.

The camera swings to the Daltex Building across the street.

Jim pulls the dead trigger, reliving the moment through the

scope on a passing car.

Jim swings the scope up to confront Main Street.  Another

car is in his sight.  Too far.

Moving at a normal 25 mph, they knew the motorcade would

have to slow to about 10 miles per hour to make this turn.

That's where you get him.

The camera swings to the Houston and Main intersection.

Lou walks to another window in the empty Book Depository

where Oswald supposedly did his dirty deed and looks out

over the plaza, with all its ghosts.  Jim and Lou are two

men - with only two men's power.  A terrible aloneness

pervades their minds.

FLASHBACK TO 1963 - the sixth floor of the Texas School Book

Depository - the same place Jim and Lou are now.  Jim looks

around and sees one shooter and one spotter with a lunchbox

radio, in repairman clothes.  Jim is watching.  Neither of

these men is Oswald.  We hear the sounds of the motorcade

below.  The shooter pulls the trigger on the Carcano.  A

loud frightening sound snaps Jim back to the present.

GARRISON'S OFFICE - 9 MONTHS LATER - 1968

We see another smoke-filled conference of assistants.

Paperwork is stacked in the corners almost to the ceiling;

there are coffee cups and doughnuts on desks.  The

disorganization and lack of resources are apparent.  The

staff working on this project now numbers some eleven people,

and there are some new investigators and assistants.  We

sense that the trial is drawing closer.

Numa is opening another stack of letters.  The dollar bills

keep coming.  He points to two giant stacks of mail.

FLASHBACK TO Dallas FBI Office in 1963.  Oswald is at the

counter addressing the female receptionist.

TIMECUT TO FBI James Hosty confronting his agitated superior,

FBI Agent Shanklin in one of his cubicles.

FLASHBACK TO Oswald, under arrest, meeting with Quigley.

Holds up the telex.  We see a close-up: "URGENT TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR."

FLASHBACK TO New Orleans FBI office in 1963.  Walter, the

night clerk, receives the teletype, reads it, and runs it.

FLASHBACK TO a Dallas safe house in 1963.  Oswald, Ruby, and

several Cubans including the Bull and the Indian are talking.

Underneath the voice-over we hear and see Oswald, with a

floor plan of the Book Depository, at the center of the group.

Jack Ruby, Bull, and the Indian, two or three young Cubans

and a young white shooter - the man in the plaid shirt

described by Julia Ann Mercer - are also there.

Ruby shares a look with Bull unbeknownst to Oswald, and then

we see the looks on the faces of Jim's team.

Back in Garrison's office in 1968.

His voice is challenging.  There's a pause.  The men exchange

looks and wait.

The others in the room groan at the reasoning.  Bill feels

embittered, cornered.

Tension, silence.

He storms out.

GARRISON'S LIVING ROOM - (1968)

It's after dinner and toys scattered around the living room.

Snapper is chasing his sister Elizabeth around.  Virginia,

6, runs to the ringing phone in the living room, as her mother

and Mattie, stunned, watch the news of Martin Luther King's

death on TV.

CUT TO Jim's study, where Jim also watches the news in horror.

We see TV images of Martin Luther King on the motel balcony,

dead.

Jim, visibly shaken, slams his book down on the desk in

frustration.

BACK TO the male voice on the phone.

Liz comes to the phone, a wary look on her face.

After a pause, the man hangs up.

Liz freaks out.  She marches into Jim's study.

Her height, her weight, when she came home from school.

The kids, hearing the shouting, come to watch from the door

of the study.

Jim controls himself, shoos the kids out, closes the door.

The children press in at the door.  Mattie, ignoring them,

is enraged as she watches King's eulogy on TV.  Riots are

already breaking out.

She runs out, past the stunned kids, sobbing as she goes up

the stairs.  Jim pursues her like an angry spirit, yelling

up the stairs at her.

The kids move away, fearful.  Quaking with rage and hurt,

Jim stands there at the bottom of the stairs, strangled with

pain.  He takes a law dictionary in his hand and throws it

across the room.  Jasper and Virginia come over to him.

JERRY JOHNSON SHOW - (1968)

The band strikes up "When the Saints Go Marching In"

introducing Jim, who strides in from the wings to shake hands

with Jerry Johnson, the friendly-looking host.

The audience is enthusiastic.  Jim smiles and waves, then

sits down next to Johnson.

He reads from a script on the desk.

He fixes his eyes on Jim, waiting for a reply.  A weariness

has set in on Jim.  Once more into the slaughter.

The audience, loving it, cheers.  Johnson looks at Jim

blankly, and reads the next question on his list.

He pulls out a large blowup of the Allen photo of the three

hoboes and starts to hold it up in front of the camera.

It takes Johnson a few moments to realize what's happening.

When he does, he lunges like a cobra for the photographs,

pulling Jim's arm down so the pictures are out of the camera's

view.

Jim swings the picture up a third time, but the stage director

gives a "cut" signal - finger across the throat - and the

red light on the camera blinks off.  The monitor shows another

camera panning the audience.

The director frantically gives Johnson the "cut" sign.

The audience cheers as the commercial comes on.

GARRISON'S HOME - (1968)

Jim comes home.  His wife and two of the children are waiting

in the doorway.  They kiss.  Al Oser interrupts.

On the TV, the news is on.

We see a shot of Robert Kennedy in Los Angeles with his

supporters.

Liz shares a look with Al and Numa.

We don't have a choice.

She walks out.

We see the outside of Jim's house and hear crickets chirping -

the purr of the suburb.  Inside, the TV election results are

still on.

Jim is in the kitchen fixing himself a sandwich.  There's a

strange feeling in the house.  We hear the wind - a shutter

sighing.  Jim suddenly doesn't feel alone in the kitchen.

He waves and leaves the podium, going back through the kitchen

of the hotel.  Jim is frozen in his spot, shaken.  The ghost

of Jack Kennedy - as he was before the killing - stares at

him through the kitchen, as if encased in a hologram.  The

hooded eyes watch Jim without expression.  They're

communicating, in some strange subliminal way.  Suddenly

shots ring out from the television and there's pandemonium.

The television shows a scene of confusion.  Jim walks out,

looking at the TV, struck down with his foreknowledge and

his inability to do anything about it.

In their bedroom upstairs that night, Jim gently wakes Liz

and holds her.

She clings to him, horrified.  He caresses her hair.  They

look in each other's eyes.

He kisses her gently - They start to make love, numbed,

needing each other, needing their love in an increasingly

terrifying world.

OUTSIDE THE COURTS BUILDING - NEW ORLEANS -(JAN. 1969)

The scene is like a circus.  Armed, uniformed guards with

walkie-talkies are everywhere.  Guards with rifles are on

the rooftop.  There are crowds of reporters from around the

world and many onlookers.  Everyone going into the courtroom

is frisked by electronic metal detectors.

INSIDE THE COURTROOM

Jim, accompanied by Mattie, the maid, but not his wife, forges

his way through a tightly packed crowd to the prosecution

table, joining Al, Susie, Numa, and others from his team.

Young law student have come to watch.  The crowd is noisy to

the point of unruliness.  Suddenly there's a hush as everyone

cranes their necks to see Clay Shaw and his attorneys, Irvin

Dymond and two others, enter the court.  Shaw, impeccably

dressed, his high handsome cheekbones sucking on an ever-

present cigarette in a porcelain filter (smoking in court

was allowed then), smiles to those who greet him as if they

were not really there and limps past Jim with a stony

indifference.

The clerk starts pounding the gavel to call the court to

order as Judge Edward Aloysius Haggerty sweeps in and takes

the bench.  He's a stocky little Jimmy Cagney look alike

with fierce blue eyes under bushy brows.  The jurors - nine

white men and three black men - all dressed in suits and

ties, look on.

CUT TO Willie O'Keefe pointing out Clay Shaw.

Irvin Dymond cross-examines O'Keefe.

TIME CUT TO Vernon Bundy, a poor black man, who points at

Shaw.

TIME CUT TO Jim looking over at a strange man, Matthews, a

kind of lawyer, making notes and conferring with Shaw and

Dymond.  Matthews seems to have some authority over both

men.

Corrie Collins, a black woman who is one of the CORE workers

from Clinton, is on the stand.

TIME CUT TO the Town Marshall on the stand.

TIME CUT TO Dymond cross-examining Dean Andrews, shaking his

head.

Arguments follow.

TIME CUT TO Charles Goldberg, a mild-looking New York

accountant, on the stand with Dymond cross-examing.

We see the faces of people in the courtroom... the judge's

face... obviously Goldberg is disturbed (or maybe he is

telling the truth, but it doesn't play well)... Jim looks at

Al sickly.

TIME CUT TO Jim calling Officer Habighorst to testify.

Habighorst, the clean-cut police officer who booked Clay

Shaw on the day of his arrest, starts forward.

This is an ugly surprise for Jim.  We see him at the bench

arguing loudly with the judge.  Susie, Dymond and Al are

also there.

FLASHBACK TO 1967, in the New Orleans police station.  Shaw

is being booked.  The press is there and Habighorst is

questioning him.

We see a close-up on Habighorst typing this in.

Dymond goes back to Shaw, very please.  Shaw smokes, icy.

Jim, devastated, sits, feeling it's over.

CUT TO Clay Shaw on the stand.  Dymond cross-examines him.

Jim rises slowly out of his chair.

CUT TO later in the trial.  A movie screen has been installed

for the jury.  Jim paces dramatically, as if waiting, casting

looks at the door.  Members of the press pack the hot room,

and a fan turns overhead.

The Zapruder film (8mm) now rolls.  We have seen pieces of

it before in the opening of the film, but now we see it whole.

It is crucial that this piece of film be repeated several

times during the trial to drive home a point that is easily

lost on casual viewing.  The first viewing is silent except

for the sound of the clanky projector.  It lasts about 25

seconds, and then the lights come on.  The jury is shaken.

The judge is shaken.  The people in the courtroom murmur.

Even Clay Shaw is surprised at what he has seen.  Jim says

nothing, letting the truth of it sink in.  Then:

CUT TO a drawing which has been put on a chair for the Jury.

Jim has also moved Al, acting as J.F.K., into a chair directly

behind the larger Numa, acting as Governor Connally.  He

demonstrates with a pointer.

Jim walks to a drawing of an overhead view of Dealey Plaza.

On it are dots representing locations of the witnesses. He

points to each portion.  He pauses and looks out into the

courtroom - Liz has entered accompanied by Jasper.  Quietly

she takes a seat.  Jim is unbelieving at first, then very

moved.  He takes a beat, then:

CUT TO: Dr. Peters on the stand.

CUT TO Dr. McClelland on the stand.

FLASHBACK TO: Parkland Hospital Emergency Room on that day

in 1963.  The doctors work on the President.  The wounds on

the back of his head are evident but will change later in

the autopsy.  He is placed in a bronze casket.

CUT TO: the Secret Service team preparing to wheel the casket

out.  The Dallas Medical Examiner, Dr. Rose, backed by a

justice of the peace, bars the way.  A furious wrestling

match ensues.

The Secret Service agents put the doctor and judge up against

the wall at gunpoint and sweep out of the hospital.

FLASHBACK TO: Love Field the same day.  We see Air Force One

taking off and a photo of L.B.J. being sworn in.

FLASHBACK TO: the Bethesda autopsy room in 1963.  The room

is crammed with military officers, Secret Service men and,

at the center, three intimidated doctors.  Pictures are being

taken as they remove bullet fragments.

CUT TO: Jim in court with a series of drawings indicating

with arrows entry and exit wounds to Kennedy's neck and head.

Dr. Finck is on the stand, erect, very precise, and irritated.

FLASHBACK TO: Bethesda autopsy room.

Jim turns away from the jury.  His point is made.  Finck is

no longer on the stand.

There's a pause, and then a murmur from the court.  Jim is

on a roll and knows it.  The faces in the courtroom are with

him, absorbed, horrified.  The law students are still there,

they have been since day one.  But it is Liz's interest that

touches him the most.

FLASHBACK TO: the Book Depository, 1963.  A shooter and two

spotters dressed as working men move into the Oswald spot.

One spotter produces the Mannlicher-Carcano.

The camera takes the shooter's point of view: we see down

the street through a scope.  His spotter wears a radio

earpiece.  The second spotter is working out of the southeast

window.

Inside the Dal-Tex Building, a shooter and a spotter dressed

as air-conditioning men move into a small second-story textile

storage room.

At the picket fence a shooter in a Dallas Police uniform

moves into place, aiming up Elm Street.  His spotter has a

radio to his ear.  Another man in a Secret Service suit moves

further down the fence.

Part of this team is a coordinator who's flashed security

credentials at several people, chasing them out of the parking

lot area.

An "agent" in tie and suit moves on the underpass, keeping

an eye out.

In the crowd on Elm Street, we catch brief glimpses of the

umbrella man and the Cuban, neither of them watching Kennedy,

both looking around to their teams.  There is a third man,

heavyset, in a construction helmet.

J.F.K. waves and turns in slow motion.

From Houston Street we look up at the sixth floor of the

Book Depository and see the shooter moving around.  Arnold

Rowland points him out to his wife.

In the Dallas County Jail, Johnny Powell is one of many

convicts housed on the sixth floor - the same height as the

men in the Book Depository.  We look across to the Depository

through cell bars.  Johnny and various cell mates are watching

two men in the sixth floor of the Depository.

All the shooters tighten, taking aim.  It's a tense moment.

The camera is on Kennedy waving.  A MONTAGE follows - all

the faces in the square that we've introduced in the movie

now appear one after the other, watching - the killers, the

man with the umbrella, the Newman family, Mary Moorman

photographing, Jean Hill, Abraham Zapruder filming it, S.M.

Holland, Patrolman Harkness... INTERCUT with the Zapruder

and Nix films on J.F.K. in the final seconds coming abreast

of the Stemmons Freeway sign.

CUT TO the Dal-Tex shooter firing.  We see the back of

Kennedy's through his gun sight.  Kennedy (stand in) reacts

in the Zapruder film.

Everything goes off very fast now.  Repeating intercuts are

slowed down with shots of Kennedy reacting in the Zapruder

film.

CUT TO: the picket fence shooter hitting him from the fence.

We see Kennedy (stand in) from the point of view of his

telescopic sight.  In the Zapruder film, we see Kennedy clutch

his throat.

CUT TO: the Dal-Tex shooter.  We see Kennedy from his point

of view, and the Zapruder film in slow motion.

CUT TO: the sixth floor shooter firing rapidly and missing

Kennedy but hitting Connally (stand in).

CUT TO: the umbrella man pumping his umbrella.  The Cuban is

looking off.  The man on the curb in the construction helmet

is looking not at J.F.K. but up at the Book Depository.

CUT TO the picket fence shooter.  We see J.F.K. from his

point of view.  He fires, and then we see Kennedy in the

Zapruder film flying backwards and to his left in a ferocious,

conclusive spray of blood and brain tissue.  We repeat the

shot.

Kennedy's car speeds off.  Jackie is like a crawling animal

in a pillbox hat on the back of the car.  The people on the

other side of the underpass wave innocently as the car speeds

through with it's horrifying contents.  Pigeons fly off the

rooftop of the Book Depository.

CUT TO: sixth floor spotter dumping the Mannlicher - Carcano

in a corner as he leaves... and then to the Dal-Tex spotter

and shooter, who break down the gun and move out... and then

to the spotter with the fence shooter, who quickly breaks

down the weapon, throwing it in the trunk of a car parked at

the fence.  He walks away.  The fence shooter, dressed as a

policeman, blends with the crowd.

CUT TO: the umbrella man and the Cuban sitting quietly

together on the north side of the curb of Elm Street.

CUT TO: stunned, confused, people in the crowd - some lying

on the ground, some running for the Grassy Knoll.

Back in the courtroom, patrolman Joe Smith is on the stand.

FLASHBACK TO: the picket fence area where, with his gun drawn,

Smith rushes across to a man standing by a car who reacts

quickly, producing credentials.  He is one of the hoboes.

There's a strange moment when the camera moves from Smith's

eyes to the man's fingernails.

Back in the courtroom, Liz is totally absorbed.  Jim exchanges

looks with her.  The camera movies in for a close - up of

Jim.

FLASHBACK TO: the three hoboes being arrested ... marching

across Dealey Plaza.  The hoboes look familiar now.

FLASHBACK TO: men in suits, ties, and hats moving people out

of the parking lot area ... turning a policeman back.

FLASHBACK TO: the Cuban, putting away a radio, and the

umbrella man, who now rise and leave the area in opposite

directions.

In the second floor lunchroom of the Book Depository we see

Carolyn Arnold, a pregnant secretary, crossing past Oswald,

who is in a booth.

On the sixth floor of the depository, Bonnie Ray Williams is

eating a chicken lunch, alone.

On the street, Arnold Rowland and his wife look up at the

sixth floor windows and we see, from their point of view,

two shadowy figures...

We see footage of J.F.K. coming up Houston - waving.

Oswald walks into the second floor lunchroom as policeman

Marrion Baker runs in, gun at his side.  He is about 30 feet

from Oswald.  Roy Truly, the superintendent, runs in a moment

later.

Oswald reacts as if hearing it for the first time.  Truly

and Baker continue running up the stairs.  Oswald proceeds

to get a Coke and continues out of the room.

CUT TO: the sixth floor, where we see Oswald as the shooter.

After firing, he runs full speed for the stairs, stashing

the rifle on the other side of the loft.  Our camera follows

him roughly down stairs - we hear the loud sound of his shoes

banging on the hollow wood - to the lunchroom, where Patrolman

Baker and Superintendent Truly run in.  Then they start to

repeat the same action as seen in the previous scene.

CUT TO: the second floor.  Oswald ambles past Mrs. Reid, a

secretary in the second floor office, on his way out, Coke

bottle in hand and wearing his usual dreamy look... there's

a lingering close - up on his face.

Outside, we see Oswald stroll out the door of the Book

Depository into the crowd.  He heads for the bus stop to the

east.

Back in the courtroom, Jim continues speaking:

FLASHBACK TO: Oswald's boarding house.  Oswald enters his

room, passing Earlene Roberts, the heavyset white housekeeper.

The camera closes in on Oswald's perplexed face.  Earlene

peeks out the shades as she hears two short honks on a horn.

Outside is a black police car driven by Tippit.  Also in the

car is the fence shooter, dressed as a Dallas policeman.

The car drives by, honks twice, waits, then moves away.

During this visual, we see the fence shooter changing his

uniform into civilian clothes.

On a street, Oswald walks alone, fast.  A police car pulls

up alongside him on 10th Street.  Oswald leans on the

passenger side of the window.  Officer Tippit, suspicious,

gets out to question him.  Oswald pulls his .38 revolver and

shoots him down in the street with 5 shots.

Domingo Benavides, hidden in his truck only a few yards away,

watches as another unidentified man (not seen before) shoots

and walks away.

We see Acquilla Clemons, a black woman, looking on.  She

watches as two men kill Tippit.  One of them resembles the

fence shooter.  The other one is a mystery figure, seen before

in the fringes.  The men walk off quickly in opposite

directions.  We notice a policeman's uniform hanging in the

back seat of Tippit's car.

CUT TO: Policeman Poe marking the bullets.

On a Dallas avenue near the Texas Theatre, Oswald moves along,

spooked.  Police cars roar by with sirens blaring.  Johnny

Brewer, in a shoestore, spots him and follows him.

Outside the Texas Theatre Oswald walks past the cashier, who

is out on the sidewalk watching the police cars go by.  A

double feature is playing - Cry of Battle with Van Heflin

and War is Hell.  He goes in.

CUT TO: 30 officers arriving at the theatre in a fleet of

patrol cars.

Inside the theatre, Cry of Battle is on the screen.  Twelve

to fourteen spectators sit scattered between the balcony and

ground floor.  Brewer leads the officers onto the stage and

the lights come on.  He points to Oswald.

The cops advance on Oswald, who jumps up, as if expecting to

be shot.

Scared, Oswald takes a swing at a policeman.  He pulls out

his gun.  The officers close in on him from the rear and

front.  A wrestling and shoving match ensues.  One officer

gets a chokehold on Oswald and another one hits him.

Outside the theatre, Oswald, his eye blackened, is led out

by the phalanx of officers.  They are surrounded by an angry

crowd.

At the Dallas police station, Dallas Police Captain Will

Fritz takes a call from a high official in Washington.  In

the background we notice Lee Oswald continuing to be

questioned by federal agents.  We hear Johnson's distinctive

Texas drawl but we never see him.

The camera closes in on Oswald in the background.  He turns

to an unseen Deputy, sad.

In an underground police garage, we see Jack Ruby being

allowed in via an interior staircase by his police contact.

He moves towards the outer edge of reporters, nervous.

Oswald comes out with his two guards.  We see a repeat of

the assassination in stop time... Ruby's eyes, Oswald's...

do they recognize each other?

We see Oswald dying on the floor of the police station.  A

paramedic pushes in and starts administering artificial

respiration, which only aggravates the internal hemorrhaging.

At a Texas cemetery, Oswald's mother weeps.  Oswald is buried

with a few people present, but there are no details, no dates.

We see Marina whisked out by agents.

CUT TO Kennedy's funeral, which, in contrast, attracts

thousands of mourners.

FLASHBACK TO X: reading about it in the New Zealand Airport,

and then back to the courtroom in 1969.

Liz watches, moved.  Susie, Al and Numa are also there for

the summation.  Even Lou Ivon has come back to support his

friend.

The camera follows Jim around the courtroom.

The camera holds on onlookers shuffling and murmuring.  Clay

Shaw smirks, smoking his cigarette.  The very grandiosity of

the charge works in his favor.  Jim is falling apart from

built - up strain and fatigue.  He looks over at Liz,

gathering his spirit.

He approaches the jury.

He returns to the table and sits.  The courtroom is still.

CUT TO: later in the same courtroom.  The jury files in,

having reached a verdict.  Jim, prepared, sits with his staff

and Liz.  The jury foreman enters the courtroom.

There's jubilation and commotion in the Court.  Shaw stands,

happily shaking hands all over... Members of the press run

for the phones.  In the corridor outside the courtroom, the

press interviews the jury foreman.

The camera moves to Jim, who walks out past the banks of

reporters.  TV lights are in his face.  Liz is by his side.

He and Liz squeeze hands as they walk on.

DISSOLVE TO WASHINGTON, D.C. - (1970)

Jim waits on the same park bench as earlier in the film,

overlooking the Mall or the Lincoln Monument... as X walks

up, a little grayer, a little more stooped, wearing ill

fitting civilian clothes.

CUT TO: a New York lunch club or executive dining room.

From the window we have a towering view of the City.  Four

men in their 50's to 70's - old men, rich men, talk at a

quiet table.  Their figures are shadowy and we overhear their

conversation obliquely, across faces flared out by sun

bouncing off the skyscraper window.

Looks pass among them.  There's a pause, and then...

There is a breathless moment with the thought in the air.

FLASHBACK TO: the Pentagon in 1962.

We see a general meeting with another general.  They talk.

FLASHBACK TO: the White House, 1962.  A general talks to one

of Kennedy's staff - a bespectacled, bright young Harvard

type.

In a White House office, Lyndon Johnson meets with a cabinet

member, a contractor, and two military men.

The camera shows Washington, D.C. buildings from strange

angles.  The feeling is still, weird, angled, alien.  The

buildings are twisted.

In a Pentagon office, a man in civilian clothing is on the

phone, his back to the screen.  This is Mr. Y, X's superior

officer.  Shadows pervade the room.  An unshuttered window

overlooks the Potomac River and the White House.

FLASHBACK TO: one of the hobo pictures.  Next to the freight

entrance of the Book Depository, Y, in a dark suit, is

nonchalantly walking past the hoboes, his back to us.  The

camera closes in on Y.

FLASHBACK TO: the White House, 1963.  Johnson sits across

the shadowed room with Lodge and others.  His Texas drawl

rises and falls.  He signs something unseen.

CUT TO: Documentary footage of - U.S. Marines arriving in

full force on the beaches of Danang, March 8, 1965... as

another era begins and our movie ends.

ON A BLACK SCREEN WE READ:

** In 1975, VICTOR MARCHETTI, former executive assistant to

the CIA's deputy director, stated that during high - level

CIA meetings during Shaw's trial in 1969, CIA director RICHARD

HELMS disclosed that CLAY SHAW and DAVID FERRIE had worked

for the Agency, and asked his assistants to make sure Mr.

Shaw received Agency help at his trial.

** In 1979, RICHARD HELMS, director of covert operations in

1963, admitted under oath that CLAY SHAW had Agency

connections.

** It is now known that in 1963, U.S. military intelligence

controlled more agents than the CIA and had almost as much

money to spend.  It surfaced in the 1970's that the Army had

long been conducting surveillance and keeping files on

thousands of private citizens in the name of national

security.  The prime targets were dissident-left-wingers of

the kind Oswald appeared to be.

** CLAY SHAW died in 1974 of supposed lung cancer.  No autopsy

was allowed.

** WILLIAM SULLIVAN, Assistant Director of the FBI, died in

the early morning hours of November 9,177 when he was mistaken

for a deer in an open field in New Hampshire.  Shortly before

his death, Sullivan had a preliminary hearing with the HSCA.

** GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT committed suicide just hours after

HSCA investigator Gaeton Fonzi located him.

** In November, 1969 JIM GARRISON was re-elected to a third

term as District Attorney of Orleans Parish.  In June of

1971, he was arrested by Federal Agents on charges of allowing

payoffs on pinball gambling by organized crime.  In September

of 1973, after defending himself in Federal Court, he was

quickly found not guilty of charges that appear to have been

framed against him.  Less than six weeks later, he was

narrowly defeated for a fourth term as District Attorney.

** In 1978, Garrison was elected Judge of the Louisiana State

Court of Appeal in New Orleans.  He was re - elected in 1988.

To this date, he has brought the only public prosecution in

the Kennedy killing.

** ELIZABETH and Jim were divorced in 1978.  He now lives in

the same house he lived in with Elizabeth.  She lives a block

away.  Their five children are grown.

** SOUTHEAST ASIA: 58,000 American lives, 2 million Asian

lives, $220 billion spent, 10 million Americans air - lifted

there by commercial aircraft, more than 5,000 helicopters

lost, 6.5 million tons of bombs dropped.

** A Congressional Investigation from 1976 - 1979 found a

"probable conspiracy" in the assassination of John F. Kennedy

and recommended the Justice Department investigate further.

As of 1991, the Justice Department has done nothing.  The

files of the House Select Committee on Assassinations are

locked away until the year 2029.

The camera moves onto the mottoes chiselled in the walls of

the National Archives in Washington, D.C.:

DEDICATED TO THE YOUNG, IN WHOSE SPIRIT THE SEARCH FOR TRUTH

MARCHES ON.

