PRAGUE - MORNING

The Old Town is quiet.  It's very early in the twisted

streets of this ancient ghetto.  Dark corners casting a

medieval spell over a modern century oblivious to their

romance and mystery.

The River is the dividing line.  Elegant gardens on the

opposite bank embracing the monotonous solemnity of the New

Town, tower steeples silhouetted against the sombre sky.

An empty motor bus rattles along a deserted street.

A Gothic bridge links the two halves of the strange city.

Its half-moon arches becoming circles as they meet their

reflections in the water.  Thin mist swirls over the

cobblestones above.

A few boats in the water.  Fishermen casting their lines in

silence.  One or two lights now burning in buildings beyond.

In the Old Town Square the great clock on the cathedral

strikes six.

A MAN'S FACE

His eyes filled with terror, beads of sweat crawling on his

brow.

He stands in the middle of a murky courtyard, perfectly

still.  Waiting.  Watching.

The balconies overlooking on successive floors, looming all

around him, are empty.  All is quiet.

The man's name is EDUARD.  He dares not move for fear of

missing a single sound.  And then he hears it.  A small noise

of movement nearby.  He runs.

TINY ALLEYWAY

He runs alone in the dim light of the deserted morning.

CROOKED PASSAGEWAY

Running for his life.

NARROW LANE

Running on sheer pumping fear, long after the verge of

collapse.

BLACK TUNNEL

Coming out into the light, but by no means out of danger, he

allows himself a brief pause, gasping for air, just for a

moment looking back into the gloom, starting to retreat again

even as he does, then turning running ...

WINDING STREET

He runs on, past boarded-up houses and shuttered inns,

strange relics of the Middle Ages casting frightening

shadows.

AROUND A CORNER

Eduard appears suddenly, quickly flattens himself back

against the large notice board that covers the wall here,

layers of expressionistic theatre and film posters pasted on

it.

He breathes painfully in short bursts, as silently as he

can.  He watches the corner he's just come from, the ornate

archway through which any pursuer must emerge.

Nothing there.  But then a shadow moves.

Eduard's shoulders tense.  His eyes widen.  He holds his

breath.

The shadow ... spreading ...

Eduard edges away ever so slowly, keeping his unblinking gaze

on the archway, backing off, one arm brushing the notice

board as he feels his way along it, macabre images on the

posters, some torn and incomplete, revealing other fragments

behind, Eduard's eyes staring constant, no noise here at all

and --

A HAND!  clamps over his face from behind.  All of a sudden

and out of absolutely nowhere and not a thing he can do about

it.

But he tries, his hands coming up to grip the arm that grasps

him, an arm of iron.

The hand is huge.  It covers Eduard's face almost entirely,

only one eye gaping bloodshot through the fingers, ghastly

fingers that, just for a second, seem almost inhuman, perhaps

even fingers that seem incompatible on the same hand, a hand

covered in scar tissue, starting to squeeze as it pulls

Eduard swiftly away.

A ROW OF TYPEWRITERS - DAY

Clacketing incessantly under slightly more agile and refined

fingers.  Beyond these, another row of desks.  And beyond

that another, the office workers in their neat suits tapping

away.

And beyond that another, at which one worker scribbles

furiously at his figures, the next rolls a new sheet into his

typewriter, the next answers his clanging telephone, the next

rifles through the pages of a massive record book, the next

sits erect in his chair playing his machine like a piano, and

the last, by the window, dusty light streaming across him,

contemplatively taps the end of a pencil onto his desk.  This

is KAFKA.

A rather tall young man with a kind, sensitive face.

sensitive perhaps because his eyes, ears, and nose seem

slightly bigger and more inquiring than most, and his gaze

one of almost unrelenting intensity.

He's looking off at something now.

A desk, not very far from his own.  But empty.  The chair

pushed squarely under it.  The typewriter covered.

Kafka is wondering why -- when his concentration is

interrupted.

Kafka turns to see BURGEL, a creep.

Burgel just won't go away.  Kafka tries to get on with his

work.

They stare at each other with mutual antagonism.

He waddles away.

KAFKA

Has one more look over at the empty desk before returning to

his work.

THE OFFICE

The desks make a checkerboard pattern of the huge floor as

Burgel calculates his path among them.

LODGING HOUSE - MIDDAY

Kafka comes up the stairs to the top landing.  He knocks on a

door.  Waits.  Knocks again.  Leans a little closer to listen

for a moment, then goes away back down the stairs.

GROUND FLOOR

Kafka comes through the door that divides the stairs from the

hall, goes to knock on the door of the first apartment down

here.

APARTMENT

Kafka comes in tentatively, seeing the CONCIERGE in a far

corner of the cluttered room, in bed, covers tucked right up

to her chin.

STAIRS

The Concierge trudges up to the top floor, Kafka following

guiltily.

She treats him like dirt.

EDUARD'S ROOM

The door unlocks and the two of them come in.  Kafka goes to

open the window curtain.  He turns around to see the

Concierge already poking about in drawers.

He ignores her and looks around the room on his own.  Eduard

isn't here.  Nothing else seems out of place.  He wonders

instead how he can dissuade the Concierge from her

unbelievable snooping.

The Concierge takes a tie from one of the drawers and models

it over her own ample chest.

She looks at him indignantly.

OFFICES - AFTERNOON

Kafka is in another section of the building, finding his way

through a department he's vaguely unfamiliar with.  He

searches out a particular person -- a strikingly beautiful

woman with flaming hair and wild eyes.

GABRIELA looks around from a file cabinet.

He follows her to a counter where someone stamps the document

she thrusts forward without even glancing at her or it.

Kafka watches her go -- then notices some smarmy young clerks

giggling over what they suppose was a romantic rebuff.

KAFKA'S DEPARTMENT

Burgel sees Kafka coming back in toward his desk, immediately

walks to intersect him.

Kafka ignores him utterly, leaving Burgel standing clutching

his files with a sour expression.

Kafka pauses at Eduard's desk, still untouched, then

continues on to his own.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF CLERK

Partitioned off from the rest, but commanding a full view of

all.  Through the glass windows the CHIEF CLERK, a stern-

Looking fellow, notices Kafka and takes his watch out of his

pocket for a look.

THE OFFICE BELL - EVENING

RINGS, signalling the end of the work day.  The office

workers clear their desks, start to leave.

OFFICE STAIRWELL

The office workers stream down the stairs that wind around a

central elevator shaft, the gated elevator grinding upwards

at the same time.

When Kafka reaches the ground floor he passes a pair of

SENIOR PARTNERS conferring together -- and does a double-take

when he hears his

shake hands conclusively and turn away.  Kafka continues

walking away himself, worried about his future.

OUTSIDE

The office workers pour out of the building, all going in

different directions.  Three of them get jammed in the

doorway, untangle themselves, and Kafka is the next to

emerge.

THE CONTINENTAL COFFEE HOUSE - NIGHT

A lively place, crowded with chattering, smoking, arguing

students, poets, painters ...

Kafka joins a group of friends.  It's clear that this is a

regular gathering and, from their warm reception, considered

incomplete without him.

Kafka cringes.

Kafka shrugs shyly.

NEAR THE FRONT DOOR - LATER

Smoke heavier in the air, the coffee house more crowded with

strange groups of characters.  Kafka and his friends

preparing to leave.

BIZZLEBEK

The owner of the voice.  A man sitting at the bar nearby,

turning on his stool to face them.  A dissipated dandy of a

man.

Turning round again.

Bizz1ebek turns round again, with a bored sign.

He looks about, characterizing various coffee house types:

It's GABRIELA from the office.  Kafka is surprised to see

her, instinctively walking over to where she's sitting at a

far table.

Anna smiles.  She's interested in Kafka.   (Which means we

must see this warm attractive girl as a threat, a curse, a

trap!)

GABRIELA

--On the other hand, is an enticement.  Kafka can't

walking towards her.  Sitting with her own friends, though

there is something less than friendly about them.  Two men,

two women.

Kafka feels as awkward as she knows he feels.  He looks to

her friends, expecting an introduction, but no one makes a

move.

Kafka nods goodbye and walks away, berating himself for

banality.

OUTSIDE - NIGHT

Kafka resists going along with the others.

Julius is a little drunk.  The others help him with his coat.

ANNA

Has a private moment with Kafka.

He gestures in the direction of the River, and the castle

that looms on a far hill beyond, huge and brooding, regally

dominating the city.

(The majesty of marriage is what he fears she represents.

This innocent scene could very well be a subjective

Kafkaesque nightmare as sinister in its own way as any of the

more outright horrific scenes to come.)

(The castle of marriage

him.)

THE OTHERS

Turn back into the picture.  Margarete pats Kafka

sympathetically.

His friends glance at each other surreptitiously and don't

know what to say -- other than goodnight

KAFKA

Turns to go -- when he notices Bizzlebek leaning listlessly

in the coffee house doorway.  A figure in the shadows.

Kafka suspects he's being mocked.  But perhaps not.

Bizzlebek steps out, buttoning his coat.

He's already quite proud of himself -- tossing his scarf over

his shoulder with a flourish -- and striding off into the

night.

THE CASTLE - NIGHT

Seen from just below, from the ancient cemetery that borders

its high, impregnable, imperial walls.  The all-seeing-eye of

the city.  An awesome edifice.

THE BRIDGE OVER THE RIVER

Kafka walking across from the Old Quarter toward the New

Town.

He passes some working-class types who seem vaguely

threatening.  Do they mutter some remark behind his back?

ALCHEMISTS' ROW - NIGHT

A bizarre street.  Tiny little houses that look fashioned by

a toymaker, all bunched tightly next to each other, forming a

continuous rooftop of odd configurations and angles and

pointed chimneys.  The street named after practitioners of

the black arts and dark sciences who inhabited it in the

Sixteenth Century.

Kafka's house is toward the back, a light shining from the

single upper window.  Through it, Kafka is seen sitting at

the only desk that really matters to him -- his writing one.

KAFKA'S ROOM

He's struggling to get a sentence right -- rereading it to

himself.

Suddenly there's a loud KNOCK on the front door below.

DOWNSTAIRS

Kafka opens the tiny front door of this almost-miniature

little house.  Two intimidating MEN stand outside, one tall,

one short, wearing similar black suits and grim expressions.

ANOTHER DOOR - NIGHT

Kafka tries to match the exacting pace of his two warders,

flanking him as they walk him along a corridor, through

another doorway.

MORGUE

Kafka tugs his collar up a bit, his breath visible in the

air.  He has a feeling what's going to be under the sheet on

the lonely trolley in the middle of the room before the first

man summons him over to it.

Kafka goes.  The first man yanks the sheet off the face in

one quick movement.  The face of Eduard.  White and bloated,

the tongue jutting, the eyes bulging.

Kafka recoils, stepping back instinctively.

And now he hears a stirring in a dark corner.  He looks up

again.

A third man steps out of the shadows where he's been quietly

standing and walks over to Kafka.  He is a severe man,

stolid, dedicated, and never smiles.  He reminds Kafka of his

father.

INSPECTOR'S OFFICE - NIGHT

The Inspector behind his big desk.  Kafka in front of it.

Pause.

HALLWAY

Kafka comes out of a door that closes behind him.  He stands

and waits.  At a high desk a POLICEMAN is reading a

newspaper.  Without even looking up from it he extends his

arm and pushes Kafka slightly to one side so he's no longer

blocking the light.

Two other MEN are here waiting, sitting on a bench, sharing a

private joke.  Kafka glances down at himself, wondering if

his appearance could in any way inspire ridicule.

The door opens again and the Inspector is back.

Pause.

He nods curtly at Kafka, and shuts his door.

THE TROLLEY

With Eduard's sheet-covered form on it, coming down the hall,

the SQUEAKING WHEELS of the thing loud on the wooden floor.

KAFKA

The noise causes him to turn around.  He watches the trolley

as it's pushed past.

AN OFFICE TROLLEY - DAY

Similarly coffin-like, loaded with files.

KAFKA

Edges out of the way to let it by, feeling as though it has

been made for him, is waiting for him.

He walks on to the Chief Clerk's office.

CHIEF CLERK'S OFFICE

Kafka comes in.

Kafka does.  And the Chief Clerk stands up.  He paces up and

down a bit, making Kafka awfully nervous before he finally

clears his throat and starts to get to the point.

The Chief Clerk, towering over him, also reminds Kafka of his

father.  Kafka tries putting up a defense.

Kafka merely nods, starts to get up.

Kafka sits back down in the chair.

Kafka nods once, starts to go again.

Kafka turns.

He returns to his paperwork.  Kafka leaves.

OUTSIDE CHIEF CLERK'S OFFICE

Walking away, Kafka notices Gabriela striding along an office

corridor -- and sneaky Burgel confronting her.

GABRIELA

She looks distressed, walking tall as if to bolster her

composure.  Sneaky Burgel does not help matters by

characteristically appearing from the sidelines.

Suddenly, in a terrific release of pent-up emotion, she slaps

him hard across the cheek, the first of what would be a

flurry of blows if not for the fact that the unexpected force

of it throws Burgel reeling backwards before she can deliver

any more.  Instead she rushes away, very upset.

KAFKA

As startled as the rest of the office by the incident.

Burgel recovers, straightening up in shock and

embarrassment.  He immediately resolves to march directly to

the office of the Chief Clerk.

Seeing him coming, Kafka quickly starts away.

THE ASSISTANTS - DAY

OSKAR and LUDWIG.  They look almost the same.  At first

glance almost identical.  It's only a closer inspection that

shows them to be imperfect twins.  Dressed in matching suits.

One is sitting on Kafka's new desk, the other in Kafka's new

chair.  They're rummaging about in his papers, and whenever

one selects a particular document for closer scrutiny, the

other promptly snatches it out of his hand.

KAFKA

Coming this way, has paused, having spotted the weird duo.

THE ASSISTANTS

Continue with their mischief until one of them notices Kafka

coming and nudges the other so strongly he almost falls

over.  They're both standing at attention, looking guilty, by

the time Kafka arrives.

Kafka smiles at them, half in friendliness, half in amusement

at their quirky appearance.

Oskar responds first, but Ludwig knocks his hand out of the

way to get there first.

Kafka doesn't quite know what to make of these two, but they

seem pleasant enough fellows and they're looking at him with

such wide-eyed innocence he doesn't know what more to say to

them.  So he turns to look around the new area he's been

assigned -- a burrow all to himself now -- even a personal

clothes peg on the wall for his coat.

The Assistants make stupid faces at each other behind his

back, but look serious again when he turns around.

ASSISTANTS

Look at each other with identical frowns, then back at

Kafka.  Oskar nods, as if to say "oh, all right, if we

must."  And Ludwig grins.

KAFKA'S NEW OFFICE - DAY

Kafka types up forms.  He hears some noise and glances over

his shoulder to see how the Assistants are getting on --

they're sharing another desk, facing each other, and seem to

be working quietly, though with pouting expressions.

Kafka rolls a new form into the typewriter -- when a shadow

falls over the page.

Kafka looks up at her.  He nods.

THE EMBANKMENT - MIDDAY

Kafka and Gabriela stroll by the River, Kafka finishing off

his lunch as they go, occasionally offering tidbits to

Gabriela who either samples or refuses them.

Kafka lets out a smile at that.  Gabriela is suspicious of

smiles.

The gnarled, barren branches of a nearby tree shiver over the

two of them.

HIGH TERRACE

A flight of stone steps takes them up here to this vantage

spot overlooking the River and the city beyond.  Kafka stands

by a railing -- and the huge, distorted shadow of SOMEONE

looms suddenly on the high wall under him.

Kafka looks at her.

For a moment she seems about to tell him, but then looks

away.  Kafka follows her gaze.

IN THE DISTANCE

Someone else has paused at the embankment wall further away

to stare at the roiling water.  He's too far away to see

clearly.  Probably nothing sinister about him at all.

Still ...

GABRIELA

Turns back to Kafka.

Her eyes lock on his for a moment.  She's beautiful.  He's

fearful.

THE SHADOW ON THE WALL BENEATH

Disappears, the ominous black mass flowing off the large flat

surface as abruptly as it arrived.  While up there on the

terrace we see Gabriela walk away from Kafka.

KAFKA

Stays where he is a moment, watching her.  He may have found

his ideal woman.

FAT MEN - NIGHT

Sit laughing, jowls gyrating, around a table filled with an

abnormal amount of food.  One of them stops laughing then,

and the others follow suit, one after the other in turn,

until they're all silent, looking at the same thing.

We're in a fancy restaurant, and the other customers have

also turned away from their dinners for the moment to stare

at the Man in Black who stands before the Fat Men.

The man wears a black mask as well.  He presents the Fat Men

with a covered tray.  They look at it, then back at him --

but he's walked away.  They look at the tray again -- and one

of them lifts the cover.  Underneath lies the classic black

bowling ball -- with a fuse burning at the top.  The Fat Men

all try to stand up at once but --

BOOM!  Their booth explodes with them in it.

At the doorway, holding a revolver loosely in one hand to

discourage heroes, the Man in Black turns calmly to face the

stunned restaurant.

He leaves.  Fire in his wake.

THE OLD TOWN - NIGHT

Kafka walks the crooked streets -- in the direction of the

plume of smoke and illumination coming from the burning

restaurant.

In the dark distance behind him there seems to be a person

following him.

NOISY BEER SHOP

Neighborhood denizens have come out, hearing all the

excitement not far away.  Kafka walks past.  He looks behind

him, but the following figure has gone.

TWISTED LITTLE STREET

Kafka comes around a curve -- and sees ahead a dark figure

a black cape standing waiting under a lone lamppost.  When

Kafka gets a bit nearer, the figure starts to walk slowly

away, as if expecting Kafka to follow.

DIRTY YARD

The dark figure walks alongside a row of black window panes,

turning around the corner where they end.  Kafka follows

around the corner -- and through a dingy doorway.

A LOPSIDED STAIRWAY

Leads him up to a large attic.  Warning shadows.

ATTIC

Gloomy except for the light around a table at a far end.

Kafka advances, seeing Gabriela sitting there with her same

companions from the coffee house.  Kafka stops in front of

the table.

Kafka turns to see the last of the group come in, having

obviously tailed him all along.  A burly man with a BEARD.

The leader of this anarchist cell.

Kafka sits down, in between a SOLEMN man with a moustache and

a woman with a POCKMARKED face.  The seedy YOUTH who led him

in completes the circle.

Gabriela darts a fierce look at her overly-flippant

colleague.  And Kafka is sad about his dead friend for a

different reason.

After a moment's pause, Kafka stands up.

Kafka notices that the Bearded Anarchist has a tattoo on the

back of his hand.

Kafka sits down again.  He tries not to be distracted by the

Solemn Anarchist who says nothing but who takes an uncommon

interest in seeing how many matches there are in the matchbox

he's been fiddling with.

A skylight casts moonglow over the proceedings.

The Solemn Anarchist looks up from his matchbox.

He stands to leave again.

Kafka starts walking away.

Kafka keeps on going, the anarchists growing smaller as

they're left behind in their far corner of the long attic.

MANIACAL LAUGHTER - BEFORE DAWN

Seeming to emanate from pitch blackness -- but then suddenly,

fast, out of a tunnel under a bridge come running three

terrified VAGRANTS, roused from slumber and scared out

their wits by the ghastly, crazed CACKLING chasing after

them, ECHOING under the arches.

They're at the river's edge, all running wildly, slipping and

stumbling, every man for himself, as they desperately try to

escape from whatever madness is closing in behind them.

Now from out of the tunnel appears their pursuer, seen only

from the back, literally shaking with insane, involuntary,

howling LAUGHTER.  A horrific human hyena, far further gone

than the sad wretches he's cornered here on this foul,

moss-covered ledge in the cold wind.

Seeing him, the vagrants freeze in their various positions --

then turn in panic to flee again as he starts after them,

moving like an animal, a killer predator, laughing horribly

as he goes.

The First Vagrant, propelled by fright, manages to make a

stunning leap up a wall to grab onto some overhanging chains

and pull himself up.  The Second Vagrant finds himself

trapped at the edge of the ledge -- with the Laughing Man

choosing him as the one to go after first.  He turns and

jumps into the river.  The Laughing Man, face still unseen,

turns toward the climbing vagrant instead -- who clambers

over the top just in time as the Laughing Man's fingernails

claw the moldy wall beneath him.

The Third Vagrant has made it to some steps, and down them --

glancing back to see the Laughing Man coming after him -- to

the small patch of muddy beach at the bottom, grey river

water lapping at his ragged shoes.  He doesn't know what to

do -- he doesn't know how to swim!  The Laughing Man is

running down the steps now.  The Vagrant starts wading out

into the water, crying out in fear as the HOWLS behind him

come closer and closer -- he throws himself forward,

splashing vainly -- and feels the Laughing Man grabbing his

ankles, pulling him back.

The Vagrant's screams join the Laughing Man's insane giggles

as they thrash around violently in the water.  The Laughing

Man drags the Vagrant back to the beach, then back up the

Steps, the Vagrant struggling helplessly, his head banging

from step to step, his hands flailing around but finding

nothing to clutch onto, his screaming going unheeded in this

lonely part of the sleeping city.

The Laughing Man drags him on, back to the slippery ledge and

along it, dragging the Vagrant on his back through a filthy

sewer alongside the wall, the Vagrant's cries choked by the

stagnant water, but continuing as the Laughing Man drags him

back into the dark tunnel, under the bridge, the two of them

disappearing into the blackness again, their combined

SHRIEKING louder than ever as it ECHOES horribly around the

damp stone, then dimming as they go deeper and further away,

unseen, until the screaming and the laughter can no longer be

distinguished.

KAFKA'S OFFICE - MORNING

Kafka walks toward his desk.  Nearing, he sees the Assistants

laughing in lunacy between themselves.  They hush up

immediately when they notice him, and are pretending to work

when he arrives.  He watches them out of the corner of his

eye as he arranges himself at his chair.

At this sign of sympathy they immediately scuttle their

chairs closer to him.

He elbows Ludwig violently.

Kafka stands up, pleased for them in their innocence.

The Assistants look at each other, perplexed by this

attitude.

He starts to go.

The stick-like figure of Kafka turns into the long center

aisle, walking between the endless rows of busy desks.  He

sidetracks, taking a shortcut along a narrower aisle toward

the exit he's heading for.  Another clerk is coming the other

way and they both at the same instant turn sideways to sidle

efficiently by one another, an almost balletic maneuver,

perfected after years of office experience, nothing more than

a short breath of air passing between them.

GABRIELA'S SECTION

Kafka working his way toward Gabriela's desk -- but he stops

before he gets to it, a familiar shiver running through him.

THE DESK

Empty.  The chair pushed squarely under it.  The typewriter

covered.

KAFKA

Stares at it -- then at the ermine Mr. Burgel who has once

again popped up out of nowhere.

Burgel bows sarcastically to hand Kafka an envelope.  Then

chuckles spitefully, obviously knowing something Kafka does

not.  He walks off, leaving Kafka uneasy.

EDUARD'S LODGING HOUSE - DAY

Kafka bounds up the stairs.

EDUARD'S LANDING

The door to his room is open.  Kafka goes in.

EDUARD'S ROOM

Kafka comes in.  Gabriela is here, gathering up Eduard's

belongings from drawers.

She's stuffed the last of the clothes into a small bag,

goes to take the few other possessions from shelves and

elsewhere.

Kafka notices that he's standing by a dumbwaiter.   For lack

of anything better to do he pulls the rope to bring it up.

It's filled with more clothes.  Gabriela comes over with her

bag, holding it out for him as Kafka puts the clothes in --

but not as many clothes as they thought.  Behind the bundle,

hidden at the back, is a briefcase.

Gabriela recognizes it.  Kafka sees her surprised reaction.

He removes the case and carefully flips the latches.  Inside,

a complex mechanism, wires connected to a clock -- and a

clump of dynamite.

Kafka just looks at it sadly.  He closes the case.

GROUND FLOOR OF BUILDING

The ratty old concierge peeks up the stairs inquisitively.

In the doorway of his room, a LODGER clips his fingernails at

a little folding table, neatly lining them up.  The concierge

turns and notices.

She slams the door on him then returns to her own apartment,

slamming that door too.  The hallway is empty now.

EDUARD'S ROOM

Gabriela turns to Kafka.

She's got his number.  He's so in awe of her he has to turn

away -- looking out the room's small window.

Gabriela clears some more items off a mantelpiece with a

sweeping gesture.

Putting the bag down, Gabriela goes closer to Kafka, so close

he almost cowers.

She turns away from him, reddening.

Kafka sees an opportunity to go to her, to try to calm her,

to make a timid approach to this woman.

-- But she breaks away.

She takes hold of him as if to shake some sense into him --

but really because she needs someone to hold.

Gabriela doesn't seem to be listening.  She's looking around.

the little room, as if it's someone else she's holding ...

Her head against his, Kafka tentatively touches her hair

and she pulls away, the spell broken.

She storms out, vehemently picking up her bag on the way out,

and slamming the door quakingly behind her.

Kafka is too astonished at her behavior to make a move for a

moment, then he glances at the bomb-case she's left behind,

then he goes out to the landing.

GABRIELA

Rushing down the stairs in anger, tearing open the door at

the middle landing and slamming that one too once past it.

KAFKA

Following her down.

GABRIELA

Coming down the final flight of stairs, disappearing through

the door at the bottom, slamming that one as well.

KAFKA

Almost caught up with her, coming down to the last door.

GROUND FLOOR HALLWAY

Kafka comes through the door from the stairs, out of breath,

and stops.  He's too late.  The hallway is empty.  The front

door at the end of it is shut.  He makes a face and a moment

later starts to go back up.  Then stops again.  Turns.  Looks

back at the front door.  ... The one he

OUTSIDE

The front door opens and Kafka steps out.  He stands on  the

stoop.  He looks up the street one way.  Deserted.  He looks

down the street the other way.  Deserted.

INSIDE - DAY

Kafka leads the police Inspector back along the lodging house

hallway.  The two subordinate policemen follow behind.

They've come to the door to the stairs now.

The Inspector stares at him.  The two other policemen roll

their eyes at each other.

EDUARD'S ROOM

Kafka keeps his eye on the two policemen as they poke around,

one of them getting close to the dumbwaiter.

He says it rather derisively, separating the syllables of the

name.

The policeman at the dumbwaiter peers down the shaft -- but

then moves on.

He signals his men, time for them to go.

STAIRWAY

The two Policemen lead the way back down, the Inspector

behind them, Kafka remaining on the top landing.

The two other policemen look at each other ominously.  The

Inspector turns to them, giving them a look, and they go off

down the stairs.  The Inspector plods back up to Kafka Like a

stern parent.

They confront each other, Kafka trying not to cringe too

baldly.  Scary shadows around the bizarrely-angled stairway.

Pause.

People treat Kafka like a child.  And other people seem big

to him anyway.  The Inspector leans his face very close.

He leaves Kafka alone on the top landing.

CONTINENTAL COFFEE HOUSE - NIGHT

Kafka comes in, looks around, doesn't see his friends

anywhere.  But at the bar, at his usual perch, is Bizzlebek,

the coffee house habituE.

Kafka turns and looks at him.

TABLE

Bizzlebek sits listening to Kafka's tale of woe.

Kafka stares at men and women around the coffee house --

couples, holding hands, kissing.

Pause.

Kafka shakes his head sadly.  He's obviously heard

argument before.

He stares at a woman who reminds him slightly of Gabriela --

a sexy woman and the man with her treating her as a sexy

woman.

CHARLIE CHAPLIN - EVENING

Being chased around a table by a big bearded man in

flickering black-and-white.

AN AUDIENCE

Watching, laughing.  A great sea of grinning teeth and teary

eyes.

Except one.  Kafka sits grimly alone near the back.  But

suddenly he's not alone -- the Bearded Anarchist has sat down

in front of him -- and now turns round, startlingly.

And the Pockmarked Anarchist is suddenly sitting beside him.

And the Youthful Anarchist is behind him, thrusting his head

suddenly forward.

The Solemn Anarchist is on Kafka's other side -- but he just

watches the movie.

Kafka's head keeps turning around as they speak.

The Solemn Anarchist suddenly laughs -- probably at Charlie

Chaplin.

Kafka's head is spinning -- and the Solemn Anarchist suddenly

looks at him.

STORAGE SECTION - DAY

Kafka follows the KEEPER OF THE FILES along labyrinthine

alleys between shelves packed with files.  Walls are obscured

by columns of documents tied together, piled on top of each

other.  There's Hardly room to move.  Stacks of files are

everywhere, balancing precariously, even falling from time to

time, from sheer Pressure in all directions.

They turn down another row, walking further, turning again.

Kafka keeps flinching as thick bundles of documents CRASH

down around him, narrowly missing him.

The Keeper of the Files is rifling through folders -- causing

others to fall out onto Kafka who tries to catch them.

The Keeper of the files looks extremely displeased.  He

pushes past Kafka, going back the way they've come.

Documents come crashing down and we can't see Kafka and the

Keeper anymore.

THE CHIEF CLERK - DAY

Looks up from his desk and sticks his chin out, which is his

way of asking Kafka what the hell he wants.  Kafka dares to

come in.

The Chief Clerk has little time for such sentimentality.  He

gives Kafka a little exasperated look before reaching down to

-- a right hand desk drawer -- which Kafka notices -- and

taking out a folder.

Kafka nods a bit, wondering what to do now.

The Chief Clerk watches him as he starts to leave.

Kafka reluctantly turns.

Kafka nods once.

The Chief Clerk looks at him with seemingly genuine misguided

concern.

He goes back to his paperwork.  Kafka leaves.

OUTSIDE CHIEF CLERK'S OFFICE

Kafka shuts the door behind him, breathes a sigh of relief.

THE KEEPER OF THE FILES - DAY

Looking very annoyed, leading Kafka back through the stacks.

ANOTHER ROW

Kafka glances nervously around as shelves CREAK threateningly

under the weight of documents.  Up on a ladder, the Keeper of

the Files finds the Orlac folder.

He pulls it out -- with great difficulty.  The Orlac file is

very, very thick.  Kafka prepares himself to catch it, but

the Keeper of the Files manages to hand it down to him

without serious injury.  Still, it's quite cumbersome and

heavier than Kafka expects.

Kafka winces at that slur but says nothing about it.

Kafka scowls, and follows the Keeper of the Files in silence.

THE OFFICE - EVENING

Kafka works at his desk, finger tapping at an adding machine.

He checks the office clock -- nearly the end of the day.

THE ASSISTANTS

One is sweeping the floor.  The other is scribbling at their

desk.  His pen blotches his paper.  He has a fit and crumples

it up and throws it down.

KAFKA

Looks over at the Chief Clerk's office -- sees him writing

intently at his desk, pausing to turn on a lamp.

THE ASSISTANTS

The sweeping one bangs his knee against a desk and starts

hopping about.  The pen of the other one leaks again.  He

crumples up his new sheet and flings it away even more

angrily than before.  Then he examines his pen, determines

that the cap at the back is loose, and starts banging it on

his desk in an attempt to tighten it -- while the other

assistant keeps jumping around holding his hurt kneecap.

KAFKA

Glances over his shoulder at them, starts to say something --

but then notices Burgel, not far away, sometimes blocked by

other employees, walking in the direction of the Chief

Clerk's office.

THE ASSISTANTS

The one assistant has just fixed his pen when the other one,

still hopping around, bumps into him, causing him to knock

over a bottle of ink.  The two of them start shoving each

other about.

Kafka whirls around, can't ignore them any longer.

The Assistants look at him, surprised at this outburst.

Oskar tries to lunge at Ludwig, but Kafka holds him back.

The Assistants look at each other sheepishly.  Then smile at

Kafka, submissively or mockingly, it's hard to tell.

KAFKA

He wouldn't.  It's the nightmare of his life.

But now he's distracted again -- noticing Burgel walking away

from the Chief Clerk's office (without ever having seem him

actually enter it).  And Burgel is carrying a parcel under

his arm.

The Assistants do as they're told, Oskar returning to his

desk to clear up, turning his back on Ludwig -- at which

Ludwig  immediately rushes up very close behind him and shakes

his fist strenuously at him, turning away quickly when Oskar

turns around again to try and catch Ludwig at it.

Kafka isn't paying them any attention anymore.  He

efficiently cleans up his own space, keeping an eye on the

Chief Clerk's office.

When the office bell RINGS the Chief Clerk immediately turns

off his desk lamp, puts on his overcoat, and shuts his office

light on his way out.

Kafka doesn't think twice.  He forces himself to start

walking to the Chief Clerk's office.  Other departing office

employees crisscross past him, but he walks in a straight

line, businesslike, toward the Chief Clerk's office.  He has

a piece of paper in his hand.  He enters the Chief Clerk's

office, holds the paper out to drop on the Chief Clerk's desk

-- but lets it slip off onto the floor.  When he bends to

retrieve it he quickly opens that bottom drawer where

Eduard's file was -- but it's now empty.

DARK STREET - EVENING

Burgel walks along, adjusting the parcel under his arm.

KAFKA

Following him.

ACROSS THE RIVER

Burgel heads into the Old Town.

KAFKA

Pauses in some shadows.  He glances up at the distance, the

way Burgel is going, up at --

THE CASTLE

Almost glowing as it's outlined against the blue of the

darkening night.

WHORES

Giving Kafka the eye as he goes past doorway after doorway

filled with their frightening/tempting forms.  But he tries

never to lose focus on the small form of Burgel further up

the street.

Men milling about, up and down the street, prostitutes

roaming amongst them, Kafka negotiating his way through.  An

urgent moment when he almost loses Burgel -- then sees him

turning down an alley.  Kafka hurries after him, avoiding a

pair of drunken louts in the way.

FURTHER ON

The Castle visible, but still a little in the distance.

Kafka comes into view.  He sees Burgel entering a building.

UPSTAIRS HALLWAY

Very dingy.  Burgel leaves the top of the stairs and walks

down to a room at the end.

DOWNSTAIRS

Kafka waits momentarily at the bottom, then goes up.

HALLWAY

Peeking around the corner, he sees a YOUNG GIRL embracing

Burgel in her doorway before letting him in.

OUTSIDE

Kafka comes out of the building.  He hears a noise, turns

around, sees Burgel and the girl on the tiny baroque balcony

outside her room.  Kafka retreats into the shadows.  He

watches the girl unwrap the

smiles as a box of chocolates is revealed.

KAFKA

Watches -- with an expression of guilt, sadness?

Until a door suddenly opens at his back.  A MAN shuffles out

past him.  A rather ugly WOMAN in a dressing gown holds the

door open, giving Kafka a cursory look.  Beyond her inside, a

quick glimpse of MASOCHIST yelping as he's whipped.

She's nodding him inside.  Kafka backs away from her and her

invitation.

DIRTY YARD - NIGHT

Kafka heads for the dilapidated building or the anarchists.

DINGY DOORWAY

He goes through.  A MOUSE scurries past him across the

threshold.

THE LOPSIDED STAIRWAY

Leads him up to the attic.

THE BEARDED ANARCHIST

Watches Kafka's approach.  But sees nothing.  His eyes are

wide open, but lifeless.

Kafka stops at the anarchists' table.  They're all lying

around it on the floor except for the Pockmarked Anarchist

who's slumped over it, her face sunk in a pool of her own

blood.

The Youthful Anarchist lies on his back, mouth open, still

dribbling red.  The Solemn Anarchist seems less than solemn

due to the almost comic, convoluted, broken-backed position

he's in.  And the neck of the Bearded Anarchist is all

twisted.

Kafka just stares in disbelief -- then SCRATCH! -- a noise

from a spiral staircase close by, leading to the roof.  Kafka

looks around in panic -- the attic entrance is too far to run

to and there's nowhere else to hide.

THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE

A man appears from above (MR. PICK).  Legs draped in

expensive trousers, the skirt of his high-buttoned coat

flowing around them due to the breeze from the roof.

He raises his arm up to help down whoever it is he's talking

to.  We hear a strange GROAN.  Followed by the appearance --

unclear, from the back, face hidden, or otherwise blocked by

Mr. Pick -- of A STRANGE hunched figure.  He moves in a

halting, cowering way.  Mr. Pick helps him down the steps.

Mr. Pick's voice is reassuring, though he has a dark,

diabolic face.  They're at the bottom of the staircase now,

Mr. Pick leading his odd companion toward the exit.  The odd

companion lurches towards the dead anarchists, but Mr. Pick

restrains him.

KAFKA

Pretending to be one of the dead anarchists.  Hiding under

the large body of the Bearded Anarchist.  Trying hard to

emulate his lack of movement.  Blood from the Bearded

Anarchist's ear drips onto Kafka's face.  He tries to blink

it away while his other eye remains fixed on the two figures

walking away to the doorway until they're through it and

gone.

After a moment, he unloads the Bearded Anarchist and softly

hurries over to the attic doorway.

STAIRS

The Strange Man utters another low moan as Mr. Pick leads him

like a dog down the creaking old steps.

KAFKA

Comes cautiously out onto the landing.  He leans over the

bannister, watching the two figures slowly going down the

long stairs, vanishing from sight at a certain turn of the

staircase on every floor and coming into view after a moment

or so.

STREET OUTSIDE

Mr. Pick and the Strange One walk away.

KAFKA

Follows at a respectable distance.  He pauses when he hears a

WAGON -- looking back at the anarchists' building to see it

pulling up outside.  The DRIVER jumps to the ground.

Kafka looks from the wagon to the two men walking away in the

distance and makes his choice -- continuing after the two

men.

THE QUARRIES - NIGHT

On the outskirts of the city, beyond the Castle.

Mr. Pick and the Strange Man approach.  Some distance behind

them, Kafka takes cover behind a tree, watching.

Mr. Pick leads the Strange Man down the central quarry to

where a third man, a LABORER by the look of him, is waiting.

Kafka finds a vantage point somewhere above the central

quarry.  He flattens himself on the ground and peers over the

edge.

In the quarry, Mr. Pick steps back a pace from the Strange

Man as they meet up with the Laborer and suddenly grabs the

Strange Man, pinning his arms behind him, baring his chest

or the Laborer to stab a dagger into!

Kafka is shocked by the abruptness of this.  He sees the

Strange Man slump to the ground.  He crawls a little closer.

He sees the Laborer replace the knife in its sheath on his

belt, then help Mr. Pick drag the Strange Man off to some

side shadows where they dump him.

Kafka strains forward a little, trying to make out their

faces -- and the ground gives way!

MR. PICK AND THE LABORER

Spin around at the noise.

KAFKA

Lands at the bottom of the incline, dazed.  He's still quite

far away from the other end of the quarry where they are.

MR. PICK AND THE LABORER

Look at each other once -- then go after the intruder.

KAFKA

Sees them coming.  Scrambles to his feet.  It takes him a

split second to establish his options.  Namely, the best

route is back up the way he came.  If only he can get up it

again as fast.

Mr. Pick and the Laborer start to run.

Kafka starts to climb.  The incline is steep.  The gravel is

loose.  He slips back down.

Mr. Pick and the Laborer are gaining speed.

Kafka digs his fingers into the dirt, pulling himself up with

all his might, even though his shoes don't sustain holds.

Mr. Pick is a better runner than the burly Laborer.  He's

almost there.

Kafka slips back down again.  Mr. Pick could almost grab him

-- but Kafka literally throws himself up the slope again,

gasping -- and Mr. Pick stretches but can't reach that far

and Kafka's nearly at the top again -- Mr. Pick climbing

after him now -- and Kafka's arm comes over the edge, he

struggles over, kicking gravel back down in Mr. Pick's face.

Mr. Pick slides back down to the bottom -- and Kafka's gone.

The Laborer fell over Mr. Pick as he came crashing back down,

now Mr. Pick pushes him off in one direction while he goes

another.

SLOPING STREET

Escaping back into the Old Quarter, Kafka runs downhill.  But

even the momentum doesn't carry him as fast as he'd like.

SMALL SQUARE

A number of streets branching off.  Kafka sees Mr. Pick

coming down one of them -- and the Laborer coming down

another.  Kafka runs off along a third.

CIRCUITOUS PASSAGE

Kafka runs.  Looks behind him.  Mr. Pick is coming.  He runs

faster, under a weird archway.  Looks behind him.  Mr. Pick

and the Laborer are coming.  Kafka darts down a side street.

SIDE STREET

Another twisting little road.  He winds around one corner

only to be met by another, the end of this street impossible

to determine.

BEHIND HIM

Mr. Pick and the Laborer are catching up.

KAFKA

Turns another corner and finds himself at the bottom of an

incredibly long flight of steps.  A staired street.  On and

on and on.  He doesn't know if he can make it.

MR. PICK AND THE LABORER

Come around -- look at the steps -- look at each other.  They

take deep breaths and start up.

THE TOP

Here they come, huffing and puffing.

THE BOTTOM

Kafka comes out from behind an extravagantly designed iron

gate grillwork.  He sneaks away, back the way he came.

THE CENTRAL QUARRY

The body of the Strange Man lies face down where it was

dropped.

Kafka walks toward it, looking around nervously in case

anyone's coming.  Someone is.  When he gets to the corpse he

hears the sound of an approaching WAGON.  He crouches quickly

by the body to do what he's come here to do -- turn it over

to look at --

THE FACE

Of a monster.  Horribly disfigured, scarred and stitched.

And it isn't the kind of patchwork mess caused by acid or

accident.  There seems to be

design.  And beneath all this warped, mutilated flesh, almost

unrecognizable ... the features of the vagrant snatched from

the River.

KAFKA'S FACE

Revulsion.  He goes.

THE WAGON

Parks above the quarry.  The evil-looking Driver jumps down

and pulls a large sack off the back.  He starts down into the

quarry.

KAFKA

Appears over another edge.  He looks over at the wagon.  He

sees that now the back is loaded up, and covered by a sheet

of tarpaulin.

THE ANARCHISTS' ATTIC - NIGHT

All the bodies are gone.  Even the floorboards and pieces of

furniture that might have had blood stains on them have been

torn away and removed.  Kafka stands alone.

THE CITY - NIGHT

An eerie moon shines over the Castle.

KAFKA'S HOUSE

He comes in.  Before taking off his coat, he finds in a

pocket Inspector Grubach's card.  But what can he do again

without evidence?  He puts the card back in the pocket.

KAFKA'S DESK - BEFORE DAWN

He sits writing into the night in his little room under a low

ceiling.

The BARKING of a DOG outside distracts him.  He stands up to

stretch by his open window -- and we SEE that he's wearing a

suit that's far too big for him, sleeves overhanging his

skinny arms and  ands, trouser bottoms drowning his shoes.

He looks out at the sky which is turning blue.

THE BRIDGE

Two men walk across the river.

A WAGON

Rolls along one of the moribund streets of the Old Town.  The

Driver swivels in his seat, looking over his wide shoulder,

as if to see if he's being followed.  The glint in his eye

suggests Evil.

KAFKA'S ROOM

Kafka puts a stamp on his letter, then adds it to the

of obsessive correspondence already piled on one corner of

his desk.

THE OFFICE - EVENING

With an ink-pad stamp, Kafka POUNDS the date onto a

succession of documents.

THE OFFICE CLOCK

Strikes six.

THE ASSISTANTS

Jump in unison when the BELL goes off.  Then in their hurry

to leave start shoving all their papers and whatnots

haphazardly into various drawers, opening and slamming them

regardless of whether or not the contents are fully inside,

resulting in a lot of crumpled documents and snapped pencils.

BURGEL

Suddenly hovering by Kafka's side, handing him something.

THE OFFICE - NIGHT

Dead silence after the daily racket of typewriters and

telephones and adding machines.  Kafka works alone in the

utterly deserted office building.

He looks out the window and sees a POLICEMAN walking by on

the street below.  He thinks again about going to the law --

but goes back to work.

He hears a SOUND.  He looks around.  A sort of a SCRATCHING

sound.  It's coming from the other end of the office

somewhere.  Maybe the bathroom.

Kafka walks slowly back there.  At the bathroom door he

pauses momentarily, then turns the handle to go inside.

BATHROOM

SCRATCH, SCRATCH.  Kafka looks for the source of the sound --

and in sudden startled shock instantly finds it -- where a

and the ugly hand at the end of the arm is feeling around for

the window-latch.

Kafka starts backing away -- as the hand flips open the latch

-- and now the window, swinging open with a bang, and the

rest of the intruder starts coming into view -- out before

all of him appears Kafka has run out and slammed the door

behind him.

OFFICE

Kafka pulls a desk across the bathroom doorway.

BATHROOM

The MANIAC -- because that's what his posture and breathing,

seen from the back, suggest -- lurches into the bathroom from

the window.

OFFICE

Kafka grabs his coat -- and an umbrella off a rack.  He looks

back at the bathroom -- the desk rocking back and forth as

the intruder behind the door pushes.  Kafka runs away.

HALLWAY

He runs to the elevator, sliding open the gate.

OFFICE

CRASH!  The desk tips over as the bathroom door is forced

open.

ELEVATOR

Kafka descending.  The elevator cranking slowly downwards.

Then, nearing the ground floor, it slows down even further.

Then it suddenly stops dead.  Kafka reaches for the walls to

steady himself.  He looks through the gate, assessing the

distance to the ground floor below.  He tries the gate but it

won't open.

He looks around the tiny space of the elevator.  The roof

hatch.  He reaches up, pushes it open, starts to climb up --

and YAAHH! -- the Maniac's face appears in the opening!  It's

another

Kafka uncovered at the quarries.  A groaning, drooling,

misshapen lump of wrinkled tissue.  And its owner's arms now

come through to stretch after Kafka.

Kafka beats them back with the umbrella while still trying to

pull the unyielding gate open.  The Maniac yelps as Kafka

bashes the umbrella up at him, dodging his head out of the

way each time the umbrella sweeps back at him, swinging his

thick arms wildly to ward off blows and try and snatch the

umbrella for himself.  He finally retreats under the barrage

of blows and Kafka quickly takes the opportunity to lever

open the gate with the umbrella.

The Maniac's face reappears overhead.  Kafka stabs the

umbrella up at him some more -- and the Maniac manages to

grab it.  Kafka sits down on the elevator edge to jump down

to the ground floor and --

THE MANIAC

Lunges forward from above, scooping both arms down in a vain

attempt to catch Kafka just as he drops out of sight --

landing on the ground floor with a roll.

The Maniac HOWLS at his failure, his features even more

horribly contorted, Practically filling the small opening of

the roof hatch as he SHRIEKS.  And as his atrocious face

comes CLOSER and CLOSER and CLOSER -- one of his eyeballs

falls out! -- POP! -- out of the socket suddenly -- dangling

into the elevator, hanging by a single sinewy bloody thread.

The Maniac cries out and reaches for the eyeball, bringing it

back up to try and stuff back in place ...

STREET OUTSIDE

Kafka runs away from the office building, in horror, off into

the night.

KAFKA'S STREET - NIGHT

He stands at a corner, looking at his own house, scared even

to go home.  But everything seems normal.  He starts walking

there.  But when he reaches his front door:

Kafka turns.  One of the Assistants stands next to him.

Kafka turns the other way.  The other Assistant is on his

other side.  Kafka looks between the two of them.

Kafka might have expected this.

One of the Assistants draws a revolver.  The other chuckles.

Kafka starts walking the way a flick of the revolver

indicates, the Assistants flanking him.

AROUND THE CORNER

They head up in the direction of the Castle.

One of the Assistants keeps making a show of wiping his brow,

though it's by no means hot.

ANOTHER STREET

Kafka walks stiffly between the Assistants, the three of them

almost locked together as one unit, like lifeless matter.

Kafka suddenly points at the ground.

The Assistants immediately bend their heads to look -- and

Kafka bangs them together as hard as he can.

The Assistants sit on the ground in a stupefied daze while

Kafka's running footsteps echo around the dark street.

CONTINENTAL COFFEE HOUSE - NIGHT

Bizzlebek, perched on his usual stool, turns to see Kafka at

his side.

CEMETERY - NIGHT

Ancient tombstones crumbling with age, slanting out of the

ground at bizarre angles, and cluttered so close together

that a way can scarcely be made between them.

Bizzlebek leads Kafka along the crooked little pathways,

overgrown with crawling weeds, upwards towards the high

section of the cemetery under the dark wall of the Castle.

Bizzlebek, who knows his way around, seems more cheerful here

than we've seen him before.  Kafka more fearful.  Wind

WHISTLES.  Leaves RUSTLE.  CREAKING trees cast ghastly

shadows.  Scary tombs, all shapes and sizes, strange symbolic

symbols on them, mystical figures and designs.

Trying to keep up with Bizzlebek, Kafka spots a horrendous

shape looming ahead of him.  He starts to bypass it -- and

The awful dark shape turns out to be no more than a

particularly large tombstone, crumbled in places to give it

an animal-like suggestion.

He keeps walking -- and we SEE that he's carrying the

A BIRD rapidly swoops down from a tree, zipping past Kafka's

head with a shrieking SQUAWK!

HIGHER GROUND - NIGHT

They're at the graves at the very back of the cemetery, right

up against the bottom of the Castle wall that stretches high

above them into the black sky of night.

Trees quiver around them.  Shadows dance.  Bizzlebek pauses

at a particular grave, apart from the others, more hidden by

overgrowth.  He runs his fingertips over the old, strangely

lettered inscription.  He looks around the graveyard, making

sure they're alone, then he moves to one side of the stone

and leans his weight against it, pushing.  It shifts and

slides open, uncovering the hole that lies beneath.

Having lit the lantern he's brought with him, he holds it

over the dark hole -- revealing a shaft and the rungs of a

ladder.

THE SHAFT

Kafka starts to climb down, shoes loud on the rungs affixed

to the stone wall of this well.  But then he remembers

something, pops back up.

SECRET PASSAGEWAY - NIGHT

A stooping Kafka makes his way along this gloomy underground

artery, the lantern lighting the way.

He comes to the end of it and what appears to be a little

door.  He bends low to listen at it -- then unlocks the

latch.  He pushes -- and the door moves forward.

OTHER SIDE

Kafka stands up -- and he's

He steps out of it and looks around.  He's in an entire room

full of file cabinet drawers.  A morgue of file cabinet

drawers.  He shuts the one he came out of before walking

away.  "D-7" says the label on the outside of it.

VAULTS AND CRYPTS

Kafka makes his way through the shadows down here in the

underground depths of the Castle.  A fiery glow and noise

comes from an archway ahead of him.  When he gets to it and

looks through he sees a sweating STOKER shoveling coal into a

giant furnace.

NEAR THE END OF A THIN PASSAGEWAY

A sudden door SLAM.  Kafka dodges back around a corner.  He

HEARS:  the quick cry of a man's agony, a scuffle of shoes on

hard stone floor, a dull thud, a wave of peculiar shouts,

running footsteps, more mumbled mingled voices -- which soon

die out, leaving silence.

AROUND THE CORNER

Kafka walks slowly, straining his neck a bit in expectation

of whatever lies ahead.

The passage brings him to a row of dungeon cells.  A line of

doors with a barred window in each.  One of them isn't closed

-- and lying across the threshold is the Laborer who chased

Kafka from the quarries the other night.  The knife is gone

from his sheath and his scull is caved in, a wooden stool

lying on the floor beside him.  At the other end of the row

of cells another door swings open at the top of a few steps.

SUDDENLY fingers spear through the bars of another cell to

touch Kafka!  A GAUNT MAN inside.

Kafka dropped his lantern in surprise, and shrinks back,

CRUNCHING glass.

The inhabitants of the other cells start RATTLING their bars

and beseeching Kafka.  He looks around, bewildered and

horrified.  Hideous faces looking back at him.

Shuddering, Kafka is moving away, making it through the

shocking gauntlet, toward the door at the other end.

A HAGGARD MAN who may have had his tongue cut out gestures

desperately at a lever on the wall to unlock the cells.

Kafka starts to tentatively reach for it -- when there's a

sudden SHRIEK beside him.  He whirls to see, behind more

bars, the raving, convoluted face of the creature that

stalked him at his office (whose loose eye has now gone

completely) -- BANGING violently against his door.

But now the evil Mr. Pick appears at the end of the passage

from which Kafka came -- a gun in his hand.

Kafka yanks the lever and runs away.  Mr. Pick FIRES after

him, starting to chase -- but the prisoners are coming out of

their cells -- coming for him.

SPIRAL STONE STAIRWELL

Kafka runs upwards, around and around and around.

ANOTHER FLOOR

Here is a part of the Castle Kafka can understand -- office

workers toiling away.  Kafka walks past one long row of them,

SCRIBES sitting at a single

students under examination, hunched over their writing, a

virtual conveyor belt of paperwork.

In the center of this floor is an

pulley running slowly up and down, presumably throughout the

entire Castle, through small holes in the floor and ceiling.

There are little pockets on the chain which the clerks

continually pluck papers out of and slip papers into.

The ink bottle of one of the scribes runs dry.  He takes it

over to a sink with three taps -- Hot, Cold -- and the third

one he turns --

CORRIDOR

Kafka passes a FRIENDLY CLERK.

Kafka nearly laughs at the enormity of the question.

Pause.

KAFKA

He stands there, a man in a suit with a briefcase in an

antiseptic corridor.

UNDERGROUND CELLS

Mr. Pick leans against a door, trying to keep back the

howling horde of prisoners pushing from the other side.

Another JAILER joins him, helping him to try and push the

door closed.  Then a SECOND JAILER too.  A

reaches through and Mr. Pick presses his pistol muzzle into

the outstretched palm --

BANG!

-- A book falls to the floor like a pistol-shot -- and

Kafka hides back in shadows hoping no one heard.  He's in a

round --

LIBRARY

-- Surrounded by books from floor to ceiling, even on the

tall door through which he entered.  A sliver of light gives

it away -- and on the other side of it he hears FOOTSTEPS.

But they pass by.

There's another sliver of light indicating another door in

the books opposite him.  He walks over and pulls on the

shelves.  Here the dark wood is merely a disguising cover for

the shiny modern steel he discovers on the other side of it

And he finds more than that as he enters --

THE LABORATORY

A real mad scientist's workshop.  Chemicals of bizarre colors

rush and FIZZ through mazes of glass pipes and beakers, in

some places boiling and steaming, in others frosting or

freezing.  Circuits and test tubes flash and glow as sparks

and filamentary arcs CRACKLE with electric incandescence.

insane instruments and devices, interconnected with complex

wires, perform strange and villainous functions.  It's the

most modern setting we've yet seen -- but at the same time

all this futuristic technology seems somehow archaic, as if

put together from old, familiar materials and elements, both

eccentric and eclectic.

The chain that runs through the floors of the Castle carrying

documents runs up and down through the laboratory too.

Amidst this feast for the eyes, what Kafka now focuses in on

a simple cigarette -- left smoking in an ashtray.  And by

the look of the ash, not very long ago.  Kafka looks around

anxiously -- notices an archway leading to another room.

UNDERGROUND CRYPT

Mr  Pick and the two Jailers can't hold back the dreadful

prisoners any longer.  Mr. Pick runs, letting the Jailers

fend for themselves.

LABORATORY - SMALLER ROOM

Kafka comes into what looks like a small museum -- vertical

glass cases in which naked BODIES float suspended in

preserving gelatin solution.

Kafka seems deadened himself by all that he's seeing -- until

he sees someone he recognizes.  The Bearded Anarchist.  Kafka

goes closer.  Looking down, he sees that the Bearded

Anarchist has a hand missing.  The other anarchists are here

in glass cases too.  Now with a gasp Kafka turns around --

looking for Gabriela -- but she's not here.

MAIN LAB

Holding himself together, and with new determination etched

on his face, Kafka walks to the center of the lab -- and an

operating table.  Ignoring the implications of the table, he

sets down the bomb-briefcase -- flicking the latches to open

it.

The sight of the explosive mechanism inside causes him a

moment's hesitation, but a look round at various animal parts

hanging from hooks above the table or bobbing in jars

alongside sinister implements laid out in preparation for an

operation renews his anger -- and he decisively turns the

dial on the bomb's timer-clock, setting it to the maximum

allowance of one hour.

He closes the case and locks its latches.  The case begins to

TICK.

Kafka takes it to a dark spot beneath the mass of elaborate

laboratory equipment, hides it under there, and leaves.

CORRIDOR

Kafka tries finding his way back the way he came.

END OF CORRIDOR

Kafka looks down a long dark staircase -- a hint of light

glowing at the bottom.

BOTTOM OF STAIRCASE

Just as he reaches the light something

side!  It's the Laughing Man, hysterical as ever, face now

SEEN for the first time, SCREECHING, salivating, eyes

watering.  The human hyena.  His grin contorts his face from

ear to ear, his CACKLING is truly terrifying, and the hand he

stretches forward has a

hand) -- a hand too big for his wrist -- reaching, reaching,

reaching for Kafka.

DARK OFFICE - NIGHT

The Laughing Man pushes Kafka down into a chair and shakes

with uncontrollable sobbing shrieks.

Someone else is sitting in darkness behind a huge desk

(MURNAU).  His hand holds out a small vial.  The Laughing Man

grabs it and leaves, gulping down its contents voraciously.

Kafka tries to see into the shadows.

The door behind Kafka opens again and an officious bureaucrat

(EKMAN) comes in.  He sits in a chair and looks at Kafka.

And he's stood up.

He's coming around the desk.  He's drying his hands on a

towel.

He tosses the towel onto the desk.  Ekman looks irritated by

this.

He places a fatherly hand on Kafka's shoulder.

And he's an impressive, imposing figure of authority

himself.  You'd probably trust him.  You'd certainly respect

him.  But if you look into his eyes, he's frightening.

UNDERGROUND CRYPTS

Mr. Pick runs from the crazed prisoners chasing him.  Fires

his gun back at them, dropping one or two -- but then runs

out of bullets.

The prisoners slowly surround him.  He backs away.  One of

those chains that run throughout the Castle has its base

here.  Mr. Pick keeps backing up, unavoidably, the deranged

prisoners closing in -- until he falls backwards with a cry

into the grinding wheels of the chain-system.

Caught up in the chain, he's carried aloft with it, up to the

ceiling.  The chain is the lifeline of the Castle and does

not, could not, ever stop.  Instead it forces Mr. Pick to go

along with it, his head CRACKING through the glass or wood

"manhole" cover through which the chain passes.

MURNAU'S OFFICE

Kafka tries not to flinch in the presence of this deadly

figure.

Ekman sighs -- as if at a difficult child.

Ekman, who doesn't hear very well, directs one ear in

particular back and forth between the other two.  Kafka just

keeps looking at the charismatic man pacing around him --

who's now lighting an expensive cigarette of the kind that

was in the ashtray at the lab.

Murnau laughs.

FLOOR OF CLERKS

Uniformly, like a chorus line, the infinite row of clerks

turn their heads from their single endless desk when they

hear an awful NOISE:

Mr. Pick is breaking through from the floor below.  The

inexorably rising chain has hauled him floor by floor through

the Castle, breaking open holes too small for his body,

shredding him along the way, and still carrying him upwards

...

CASTLE CORRIDOR

Kafka walks along with Murnau and Ekman.  The Laughing Man

holds Kafka's arm.

They pass another of those grinding chains carrying memos and

inter-office directives up and down.

The Laughing Man giggles crazily.

LIBRARY

The Laughing Man, subdued for a moment, merely smiles a

little, opening the door to let Kafka in first, guarding him

close.  Dr. Murnau then leads the way across to his

laboratory door.

Murnau laughs, but then has to stop as it encourages the

Laughing Man, bringing forth a mad chuckle or two from him.

He pushes the tall door open into his lab.

LABORATORY

Murnau spreads his hands proudly as they enter, displaying

his amazing factory.

Ekman, who's seen it all before, goes to lean somewhere,

bored.

As if in response to that the Laughing Man convulses anew.

Ekman immediately turns to a shelf for another vial and goes

to give it to the Laughing Man.

The Laughing Man gulps down the potion and starts to calm

down a little.

THE HIDDEN BOMB-CASE

TICKING lightly away.  The clock inside the bomb-case,

becoming visible as if by X-Ray, is SEEN to be a matter of

minutes away from blast-off.

THE LAB

Murnau walks to where the elaborate distillation processes

are going on.  The very section where Kafka hid the bomb.

Kafka wipes his brow, quickly, conscious of Ekman staring at

him.  Murnau gazes obsessively at his contraptions, his

piercing eyes following the routes of the flowing chemicals.

He's concocting another potion now, pouring an acidic-looking

liquid from one container to another.  Kafka is looking

increasingly worried.

He glances at the dangling animal parts.  And now, finished

mixing his cocktail, he picks up some sort of suturing tool,

pressing the trigger on it to start the end burning and

SIZZLING.

Ekman takes Kafka by the arm to lead him toward the operating

table.  The Laughing Man moves in closer too, emitting a

psychotic chortle.

Kafka attempts an escape around the operating table, but the

Laughing Man blocks his way and corrals him back to where he

was before.  Dr. Murnau holds out the sinister aperitif for

Kafka to take and drink in toast.

The glass comes closer and closer to Kafka's lips -- if he

leans away from it any further he'll be lying on the

operating table -- but now a WRENCHING noise makes everybody

turn.

The body of Mr. Pick, bloody and ragged, is dragged up with a

SMASH through a breaking floor-panel by the great chain.

Kafka has his chance.  The next time anyone looks at him he's

holding the nozzle of the burning device under Ekman's

throat, finger on the trigger.

-- And on the other side of the laboratory a wide elevator

platform rises into view -- carrying the prisoners from the

dungeons!

KAFKA

Throws Ekman aside and runs away.

EKMAN

Falls to the floor, holding his hands up over his head with a

SCREAM as the ghastly creatures from the depths converge on

him -- but they pass him by -- intent on getting Murnau.

The last out of the elevator is the most horrible BEAST-MAN

yet -- and we finally see the use to which various

animal-parts have been put.

MURNAU

Just stands by the operating table, waiting for them.  He

knows there's no way out and he's far too practical a man to

waste energy running or screaming.

DOORWAYS

Kafka running through the Castle, through door after door

after door after door, leaving them all banging behind him,

back and forth.

THE LABORATORY

Ekman stumbles to his feet, watching in horror as the

prisoners of the Castle strap Murnau to his own operating

table.

One by one, the prisoners file past the intricate surgical

tools neatly laid out on white cloth.  Each prisoner selects

the implement of his choice.

Ekman, too, runs away out of the laboratory.

The Laughing Man, snickering, isn't sure whose side he's on.

But then, LAUGHTER BUILDING, he goes to join the others in

line.

DOORWAYS

Kafka still running in the maze -- through a final door.  And

he finds himself right back in --

THE LIBRARY

With the brightness of the laboratory facing him through its

open door.  Horrible SOUNDS coming from in there.

THE HIDDEN BOMB-CASE

Almost time.

KAFKA

Running again, through the maze of corridors.  He HEARS

running footsteps behind him -- looks back to see Ekman

running after him.  Ekman catches up -- but runs past Kafka

in his panic to escape -- out onto a metal walkway around a

central area of offices.

THE LABORATORY

Murnau can't be seen, only the deranged men huddled closely

around the operating table.

THE HIDDEN BOMB-CASE

Abruptly stops ticking.

THE CENTRAL OFFICES

The floors SHUDDER as the BOOM in the laboratory is heard and

felt.  The metal walkway breaks and Ekman goes sliding off it

-- while Kafka manages to hang on.  He ducks his face down as

glass from all the surrounding office windows SHATTERS and

SHOWERS -- and then paper starts sailing down all around.

Literally a hailstorm of documents.

On the floor below where he fell, Ekman tries to stand, but

the falling flurry of paper keeps him at bay.  He waves his

hands wildly trying to see his way through it all, but it's

too much.  Now his feet are trapped in it.  It's starting to

rise around his legs.  Papers are fluttering down from floors

and floors of surrounding offices above, filling the air.

Ekman suffocates and drowns and disappears in the paper

piling up around him -- one lone arm and hand the last we see

of him.

THE LABORATORY

Totally wrecked -- and jutting out of the broken walls are

burst pipes -- spurting red, blue, and black INK everywhere.

THE CENTRAL OFFICES

Kafka is managing to climb back onto the unsafe metal walkway

-- when ZING! -- a bullet ricochets near him.

The Assistants!  They've nearly fallen through another

doorway where the walkway on that side broke, but got each

other stuck in the door just in time.  One of them is wildly

FIRING a revolver in Kafka's direction.  The other tries to

grab it and both FIRE it together in all directions.

Kafka runs away, avoiding a snake of broken wire, flipping

about, SPARKING off the metal.

The Assistants, shoving each other, extricate themselves back

through their doorway to find another way to chase Kafka.

THE LABORATORY

The burst ink pipes drip empty.  The sound of maniacal

LAUGHTER abruptly stops.  The ink has filled the lab halfway

to the ceiling.  It's covered everything and every ... body.

A last bubble pops, leaving a lake of ink with a surface

smooth as glass.

UNDERGROUND FILE VAULT

Kafka has found his way back here -- rushing in.  But wait:

Which file cabinet did he come out of?  He's surrounded by

file cabinet drawers all alike.  He starts running around,

pulling open drawers, trying to find the secret doorway

through one of them.

SPIRAL STONE STAIRCASE

Here come the Assistants, running round and round.

UNDERGROUND FILE VAULT

Kafka runs round and round, opening drawer after drawer.  He

finds the one!  Jumps in!  Pulling it closed after him just

as --

-- the Assistants stumble in.  They look at each other, then

immediately start rushing around opening drawers.  They run

back and forth and all around, bumping into each other,

making themselves dizzy.

-- But Ludwig just pulls out a file folder.

They start trading files back and forth, trying to put the

system back in order.  The attention span of squirrels,

they've forgotten all about looking for Kafka.

CASTLE GATES - DAWN

Opening.  The police Inspector enters the main courtyard.

Behind him come the two secondary policemen.  Behind them,

obscurely, a few more.

CASTLE COURTYARD

He and his men pause, reacting ...

... as the few wretched survivors of the Castle prison

stagger out of the shadows to greet them.

EMBANKMENT - MORNING

On the Old Town side of the River.  Foggy.

KAFKA

Walks slowly, tiredly.  He looks up at the sky, but the sky

is a silver shield against anyone who looks for help from it.

FURTHER ON

Kafka stops.  Turns.  Did he hear something other than the

wind and the water?

FURTHER ON

He passes through a small park, approaching a gate on the

other side of it.  Leaves RUSTLING.  Mist swirling around

him.  He opens the gate and -- BOO!

GABRIELA

Standing there, half in shadow, in profile.  Her glorious

profile.

Kafka is beginning to sense something quite wrong with her.

Kafka just watches her ... The breeze sings in

the air.

Kafka doesn't answer.  She turns fully to him.  The other

side of her beautiful face is ... fungus.  Alive.  Seething.

Frothing.  Bubbling.  Kafka backs away a couple of steps.

Kafka starts to back away some more.  Gabriela starts to

follow him.

And suddenly she's slashed a

shouts in pain, staggering backwards.  She comes after him.

She comes after him, blade glistening.  Kafka does his best

to run.

THE BRIDGE

Kafka giddily staggers forward, one arm wrapped around his

bleeding chest, Gabriela close behind him.  Too close for him

to get away.  He turns to face her as he reaches the bridge

and as she comes upon him again with the knife, raising his

arm to block the thrust and hold her wrist back.  She's

strong, though, made more so by her madness.  She forces him

down to the ground, straddling him, the knife pushing

closer.  Kafka gasps in pain, finally succumbs, no longer

able to hold his hand up in defense, simply shutting his eyes

with a terrible sigh to await the fatal stab.

It doesn't come.  Almost.  But not quite.  Gabriela's arm

pauses, shaking in the cool, cloudy air, her sleeve trembling

in the breeze off the River, the sharp blade, inches from

Kafka's throat, flashing in the new day's light.

Gabriela stares away over the River, the destroyed half of

her face in shadow again, the other more strikingly beautiful

than ever.  As Kafka watches, passive, she gets off him and

slowly walks to the wall of the bridge, letting the knife

drop from her hand along the way.  Kafka manages to lift

himself to his knees, clutching his wound.  He looks up.

Gabriela in one graceful movement climbs over the wall and

throws herself into the River.

Kafka lowers his head.

CONTINENTAL COFFEE SHOP - MORNING

Quiet in here.  Breakfast business not as crowded as

evening.  Kafka sits alone at  his usual table.  Looking

dazed, almost in shock.  Mostly just tired.  Waiting.  He

sips from his coffee cup.  He COUGHS a little into his napkin

-- and notices blood on it.

He has a pen in his hand.  Tapping it slowly on a newspaper

on the table ...

Bizzlebek comes into the coffee house.  He sees Kafka sitting

in the far corner and gives a grand smile and wave.  But then

he notices Kafka's other friends entering and he'd rather not

have to deal with them -- so he gives Kafka a "catch you

later" gesture and turns onto his own usual stool at the bar.

Kafka stares at his friends over there.  They're taking off

their coats and  greeting other people.  The girl, Anna, is

the first to start walking to join him.

He starts to write, a first line that has occurred to him,

the pen moving as if he can't help himself ...

Anna's approaching.  Kafka just watches her coming.  He

knows he'll end up going out with her, sleeping with her,

getting engaged to her ... We see the future on Kafka's

face

KAFKA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Alone again in his little room, Kafka writes on into the

night.  The famous "Letter To His Father" is pages and pages

long.  We notice too that his chest has been bandaged.  He

COUGHS a little as he forces himself to keep writing.

FADE IN

WATERFRONT WHARVES - MORNING

The Assistants sit on a big packing crate, brushing soot from

their suits, shaking dust out of their hair, fiddling with

the rips in their jackets and trousers.

Oskar has a long think.

Ludwig jumps off the box and gapes at Oskar, tremendously

impressed by this brainstorm.

Oskar jumps down from the box.

And, linking arms, they do a strange dance along the quay ...

