The radio falls silent.       Eyes widen in concern.

Bertie stands frozen, his mouth agape, jaw muscles locked. He

knows he's considered by all, especially himself, unfit for

public life.

Elizabeth is devastated.

TRACKING SHOT - rain splatters on brass plaques denoting Dr This

or Dr That, specialists in various maladies. Halt at a plaque

that reads: LIONEL LOGUE, SPEECH SPECIALIST.

Umbrella stand, coat rack, wooden waiting bench: that's all.

The door is flung open and Elizabeth enters, drenched, her hat

decorated with white silk roses, now limp. A veil covers her

features.

She waits. Coughs.    No response.    Calls imperiously:

From behind a door:

Princess Elizabeth is not used to this sort of thing. She's

further appalled by the loud gurgling of a toilet being flushed,

and startled by the entrance of - LIONEL LOGUE. He's in his

forties, tall, with piercing eyes and charismatic features. His

demeanor is friendly, but professional. The accent, although

Australian, is not heavy, he is after all a speech therapist.

She exits, closing the door firmly behind her.

WACK! The sound of something solid meeting leather.

A foot kicks a ball. Lionel is returning home from work. He's a

well-known fixture locally. Some lads are playing footie. One

of them passes the ball to Lionel who, despite briefcase and

rolled brolly, dribbles skillfully before passing the ball and

entering a modest brownstone.

As Lionel mounts the stairs he's set upon by three sturdy boys -

VALENTINE, IAN, and PETER - with handkerchiefs tied around the

lower portions of their faces and armed with broomstick swords.

The boys scream with delight and a sword fight ensues - Lionel

using his brolly.

Lionel wife - MYRTLE - appears at the head of the stairs; a

sweet-faced, down-to-earth woman.

Logue, Myrtle, and the boys are finishing at the table.

They start to leave.

The boys grabs their plates and exit. After a moment...

Myrtle is clearly disappointed

She does.   There's an unspoken code between them.

Covers her letdown.

Silence, then:

Elizabeth, fashionably attired for an evening-out, is curled on

a bearskin rug reading "Peter Pan" to the girls.

Bertie enters, handsome in a tuxedo.     Elizabeth closes the book.

Movements behind a curtain.

From the auditorium:

Someone pushes through a gap. Its Lionel.

Falters, begins again.

His elocution is crisp and flawless. His acting, however, is

unconvincing.

Lionel struggles to maintain a semblance of dignity.

Crushed, Lionel retreats behind the curtain.

Cold and austere mausoleum illuminated by floodlights.

On the parade ground, Grenadier Guards in red coats and black

bearskin busbies drill stiffly like toy soldiers. Viewing stands

are beginning to fill.

The King's voice is heard:

The King's study resembles a naval captain's cabin. Both men

are uniformed for a state occasion. Bertie regards the BBC

microphone as though it were an alien.

The edge of the crowd is visible. One can sense a vast sea of

humanity. When the glass doors of the upper balcony open the

murmur becomes a ROAR. When the King steps out, it becomes

tumultuous.

The King is joined by Queen Mary and the Archbishop of

Canterbury, other Royals, and dignitaries. The noise is

deafening. The King beckons impatiently for someone still

inside to join them. It's Bertie, with Elizabeth.

The King goes back to waving.   Elizabeth is stunned at the

prospect.

The ROAR of the crowd segues into the ROAR of machinery.

Huge industrial wheels whir in neutral. WORKERS are lined up

dutifully to hear the visiting Royal. Bertie's lips move, but

with the noise he cannot be heard. Elizabeth watches in relief.

Then a FOREMAN, trying to be helpful, signals.     The machinery

halts, the factory falls silent.

At first the momentum of speaking without being heard carries

Bertie forward.

Hearing his own voice reverberate through the cavernous factory

brings Bertie's stutter back in full form.

One of the workers sullenly pulls a chain, releasing a blast

from a steam whistle that drowns Bertie out.

THE ROYAL STANDARD fluttering.

Elizabeth and Bertie in the back.

As they pass a corner news stand, the headline chalkboard reads:

PRINCE OF WALES TELLS MINERS "SOMETHING MUST BE DONE!"

As the Austin halts for lights, people stare to see who's

inside. Some point.

Bertie and Elizabeth enter. She explains in a whisper:

Anna flees quickly.

The Yorks look at each other.

A totally different universe from the Spartan waiting area. A

world of books - piles of them spilling everywhere. Two

slightly shabby, but comfortable armchairs. Well-worn Turkish

rug. Hotplate and two chipped mugs. Model airplanes hanging

from the ceiling. Recording apparatus. The walls are pearl grey

and smoky blue.

Here, in a doctor's office, Bertie's stutter returns.

Bertie's head bangs into one of the models.

Logue puts the record in a brown paper dust jacket and hands it

to Bertie.

Bertie glances at the record.

POV - the label: HMV His Master's Voice.

Elizabeth, trying to be gracious, has been cooling her heels

with a working class MOTHER and her young son WILLIE.

They exit curtly.

The Yorks are being driven home. As they pass Speakers' Corner,

Oswald Mosley's blackshirt British Union of Fascists are out in

full force.

In fury he rolls down the window and is about to throw away the

record. Elizabeth stops him.

He quickly rolls up the window.

The sound of an approaching aircraft engine.

A grass strip cut into the moors. Bertie waits beside a shooting

break, the stiff breeze whipping his coat, as a small plane

lands and taxis. The cockpit canopy slides back and the pilot

leaps out, removing his leather helmet and goggles, revealing

hair gleaming like gold, perfect teeth flashing a dentist's

smile. This is - DAVID - the Prince of Wales, Prince Charming,

the media's darling, a sun god descended from the skies

accustomed to being worshipped by all.

Bertie stutters badly in the presence of his brother.

Bertie shoots him a look.

David drives.   Badly.

The break almost careens off the lane.

The King is propped up in bed, wrapped in his favorite faded

Tibetan dressing gown, hooked to an oxygen tank. He's

surrounded by his wife, Queen Mary, his two eldest sons, his

Secretary - CLIVE WIGRAM - his personal physician - DR DAWSON,

and a NURSE.

Wigram presents a tray with papers and pen.

The King is so feeble he can barely make his mark. Glares at

David.

He waves them out of the room, but beckons Wigram to come close,

and whispers something in his ear.

The King nods.

Clear soup is being served at the immense table.    Places set for

five, but only Bertie and his mother are seated.    The clinking

of silver and china. Finally:

David, hunched over a table, appears to be sobbing.     He doesn't

hear Bertie's discreet knock.

Seeing his brother crying, Bertie is deeply moved, puts a

comforting hand on his shoulder. David pulls away as though

touched by a leper and covers the receiver in his hand.

David glares at a clock.

Bertie and David enter to find Wigram and Dawson with their

mother.

Nobody wants to take responsibility. The Queen looks to David.

He nods. They're interrupted by a BUTLER.

David knows he's referring to the Simpson affair.

Lang is already sweeping towards them.

The men are huddled, with cigars and port, composing a news

release. Bertie acts as secretary.

The others nod.

Lang beams.

The clock is approaching midnight.

The brothers look at him. He expains:

All eyes on David.

The nurse looks aghast as Dr Dawson administers an injection.

She does so, sobbing.

Everyone watches silently as the King's breathing slows, the

twitching jugular subsides, then all movement ceases.

Dawson takes the pulse, and consults his watch.

David sets the hand of the room's big clock back by five

minutes.

Queen Mary curtsies in homage to the new King, taking her eldest

son's hand and kissing it. When she looks up...her eyes are

chilling.

Bertie, in despair and grief, has been describing to Elizabeth

what happened.

He notices something on his desk, the record Logue made.

POV: the label - His Master's Voice - stares up at him.

He releases his emotions in an outburst of anger.

He picks up the record and is about to smash it against the edge

of his desk, then realizes the mess that would make and tosses

it into a waste paper basket. Then changes his mind.

Bertie takes the record from the trash and walks to a Victrola

stand, lifts the arm, places the steel needle, expecting to hear

his stuttering voice. Instead, what he hears is flawless and

flowing:

Bertie lifts the needle. He and his wife stare at each other;

there are tears in her eyes.

The ROAR OF A HUGE delirious crowd is heard, growing in volume.

The roar becomes chillingly recognizable: "Zeig Heil! Zeig Heil!

Zeig Heil!"

Hitler, giving one of his mass rally speeches, continues.

The brass numbers 10 appears on the blackness.   It is:

The black front door of the Prime Minister's residence. The

Fuhrer's tirade continues as CAMERA moves through the door into

10 Downing Street itself.

CAMERA explores the dwelling, during which Hitler grows louder

and more shrill, until:

The glowing light of an illuminated dial of a radio, listened to

by Churchill and Baldwin. They wear black armbands.

The hysteria stops.

Baldwin brightens.

Baldwin's face clouds once again.

A headline screams: HITLER RATTLES SABRE.

Lionel is at his desk reading the newspaper as his sons sprawl

on the floor building a model airplane.

Clearly this is a much loved ritual. Lionel disappears into a

closet.

Ominous thumps within the closet.

Lionel lumbers out of the closet, a pillow stuffed into his

jacket to create a monstrous hunchback. His acting, performed

just for his children, is quite magical.

The lads are enthralled. The DOOR BELL RINGS. Lionel is not

expecting anyone.

The Austin Princess waits at the curb.    Bertie is at the door.

He rings the BELL again.

Lionel is stunned, covers:

The boys gather their things, deposit the model plane on a

chair, stow the building materials in a box, and exit the back

way. Lionel goes to the door, but doesn't open it.

Logue, expressionless, doesn't respond.

Bertie is torn: part of him wants to flee, yet he desperately

needs to be let in. He knows what must be done. This is a huge

step for him.

The door opens.

Lonel gives him a look, but lets him him.

As they enter Bertie notices:

Lionel hastily removes the pillow, tosses it away.

They enter:

As Bertie is about to leave, Lionel requests casually:

Bertie doesn't answer. Exits. Logue is left holding the plane.

He goes to the waiting room door.

A drum roll is heard.      Thrum.   Another...   Thrum! Thrum!

Funereal bagpipes wail, joining the measured drum-rolls.

INTERCUT to Henry, the Duke of Gloucester.

INTERCUT to George, the Duke of Kent.

Below, the coffin is entering the Chapel.

They exit.

Re-establishing shot.   The Royal standard flies bravely.

Bertie waits at a table with a group of immaculately attired

courtiers and dignitaries. This is the Coronation Committee.

The chair at the head of the table is empty, everyone waiting

for its occupant.

He finally arrives. David. He gestures for Bertie to come into

the corridor, but deliberately leaves the door open so the

committee can hear snatches of Bertie's ensuing humiliation.

David has a habit of constantly fingering his tie.

He thrusts a document into Bertie's hands, then pokes his head

into the conference room.

Bertie looks at the pages, his throat constricts, his chest

tightens and his hands begin to shake.

He attempts to return it to David, but his brother won't accept.

In the room, they are appalled.

Bertie stands frozen and shattered.

The lion rampant flutters on the bonnet of the Austin. Inside,

Bertie, wearing a black armband, gestures for the driver to

stop. Pulling his homburg over his brow, Bertie wraps his scarf

around the lower portion of his face. Then catches his

reflection in the rearview mirror. Tells his driver:

Not wanting to draw attention to his destination, Bertie has

disembarked several buildings away from Logue's address. He

makes his way hurriedly.

WACK. A soccer football hits him on the back.    He wheels

around.

The group of local lads look at him unabashed.

Bertie kicks it.   A fine high shot.

They go back to their game.

Bertie rings Logue's bell. A brief pause. Bertie glances

nervously, hoping not to be recognized. Lionel opens the door.

Bertie stares at his mentor. Nods.

They disappear inside.

Bertie has to pick his way through discarded toys and sporting

equipment, explaining to Logue:

Bertie looks around the cluttered, but pleasant room:

comfortable furniture a bit battered by the boys, antimacassars

to hide the wear spots on the arms, family photos everywhere,

well-used Turkish rug on the floor.

Lionel stares, unsure if he's being patronized.

Ushers Bertie into his study.

Bertie stands shattered, lost in his painful memory.

Closed curtains. Someone fumbles behind it.

Lionel pushes his way through the gap in the curtain. A

PROVINCIAL DIRECTOR replies from a seat in the auditorium. (Not

the same Director as in the earlier audition scene.)

As magical as Lionel was when he performed for his boys, here

he's stiff and painfully stilted.

Logue bows his head.

Lionel enters and sits dejectedly at the table.     Myrtle and the

boys eat in silence. Finally:

They exit.   Myrtle knows something has happened.

Lionel takes five slim folders out of his jacket pocket and puts

them on the table in front of Myrtle. She studies them, stunned.

A long pause as Myrtle digests this.

CHOP!   CHOP!    CHOP! The sound of an axe.

A woodsman's axe CHOPS into the thick trunk of a massive tree.

Nearby, a bulldozer cuts into the green turf and rich soil.

The felling and earth removal are being watched by Churchill and

Lang from a distant terrace. In the background a jazz band in

white tuxedos syncopates pertly.

Inside the ballroom, seem through open French doors, an

afternoon dance is being held. Churchill and Lang look in.

At the epicenter, a dashing couple: David, the very picture of

insouciance, and clinging to his arm, dripping in jewelry, a

rather small, angular, dark haired woman, with a high brow and

square jaw - MRS WALLIS SIMPSON. Her most attractive physical

feature is her back, displayed fully by a dress that plunges to

her nates. Surrounded by their entourage, they are the apex of

chic.

Watching from the sidelines:

Winston exchanges his empty champagne flute for a full one from

the tray of a passing footman.

Churchill almost chokes on his champagne.

They make their way inside. In the distance an Austin Princess

can be seen making its way up the stately tree-line avenue.

Bertie and Elizabeth are dressed for the party.

At the buffet table Churchill helps himself copiously.

A FOOTMAN announces:

Wallis sweeps forward to greet them, but Elizabeth sails past,

announcing to no one in particular:

David turns and bows formally. Elizabeth cursties in return.

Wallis quickly returns to David, taking him forcefully onto the

dance floor. The Yorks go in the other direction.

To the side, Churchill and Lang watch David and Wallis do a

brisk Turkey Trot.

Churchill has spotted Elizabeth in a side room.

Churchill makes his way to Elizabeth, who is standing in front

of a portrait of George IV.

The champagne cork finally POPS. He strides off.

Establishing shot of the Prime Minister's residence.

Baldwin and Churchill are alone together.    No love lost between

these two men.

Churchill is silent.   Balwin waits, then:

Churchill, on the edge of his seat, can't suppress an

anticipatory grin. Baldwin takes pleasure in deflating it.

Baldwin has a sheath of telegrams in hand.

Silence.

Winston Churchill is incongruously inspecting a rocking horse.

Unable to resist, he sits on it gingerly, rocking back and forth

lost in a reverie. Eyes closed he extends his right arm as

though holding a cavalry saber. Bertie enters startling him.

The rocking horse CRACKS.   Churchill gets to his feet.

It is December 11th, 1936. If practical use the actual recorded

broadcast (truncated). In London, Birmingham, Edinburgh,

country hamlets and cathedral towns...the streets are deserted.

Stragglers hurry indoors to be near:

THE GLOWING DIAL OF A RADIO

Bertie and Elizabeth listening to the radio with the two

princesses royal sitting at their parents' feet. Bertie battles

his emotions.

Elizabeth holds a finger to her lips: shush.

The glow of a radio dial. Lionel and Myrtle sit in armchairs,

the radio on a side-table between them.

Lionel gets up to turn it off as David's voice concludes:

Logue strokes Myrtle's hair.

The Royal standard on a gleaming car's bonnet.

Bertie stands uneasily in the uniform of an Admiral of the Fleet

as the driver opens the door. Bertie realizes its a Rolls.

The two girls wave from their open playroom window, and call:

He waves, and gets in.

A formal voice announces:

Bertie looks at himself in a full length mirror, making last

minute adjustments to his uniform. Staring at his reflection:

Bertie walks to the podium like a man to the gallows faced with

an array of the Privy Councillors, members of the House of

Lords, the Lord Mayor of the City of London, the Aldermen of the

City of London and the High Commissioners of the Commonwealth

countries.

All the old symptoms reappear: the tightening of the neck

muscles, the protruding Adam's apple, the jaw locking.

Its going to be a terrible performance. He bows his head in

humility. And shame.

Elizabeth is playing quietly with her daughters when the door

opens and Bertie appears, still in full regalia, straight from

the Accession Council. He holds his arm out, expecting them to

run to him for a hug and kiss, his solace after the ordeal.

They remain where they are.

They curtsy formally.

Bertie is devastated.   Elizabeth takes him quickly out into the

corridor.

She takes his face in her hands tenderly.

Logue is working with Anna. She's reading smoothly and with

great intensity.

Gets stuck.

The doorbell RINGS.     Logue is annoyed.

The bell RINGS again.    He yells:

The door opens and Bertie enters the waiting area. Hearing Anna

he stops outside the consultation room and listens.

Logue steps aside, letting Bertie in.

The double bed is piled high with clothing, a suitcase at its

foot. Myrtle is sorting. She hears Lionel enter behind her. At

first, she doesn't turn. Lionel remains silent.

Realizing something is amiss, she turns, and knows instantly

what Lionel's going to tell her. Her hand goes to her mouth to

stifle her emotions.

Bertie is with visitors: Churchill and Lang. There's a slight

but discernible change in his demeanor.

Bertie is not pleased with His Grace's joke, but lets it pass.

Myrtle is in the shop window, arranging handbags, luggage, and

briefcases.

In the store Myrtle can be seen dressing the window, while in

his glass office the OWNER, a portly bald gentleman with a

Dickensian air, is deep in concerned conversation with a man in

trench-coat. The Owner keeps glancing worriedly in Myrtle's

direction.

The two men nod, shake hands. The fellow in the trench-coat

leaves. The owner beckons another shop-girl over and whispers

something to her. She heads towards Myrtle.

A wall divides the study from the living area, allowing the

action in both spaces to be viewed.

IN THE PARLOUR: Elizabeth waits, ill at ease.

IN THE STUDY:

Lionel gives him a look.

The family eat in tense silence

He's stunned.

Establishing shot of this architectural icon.

A massive cavern of stone statuary and stained glass. The

center piece of this particular section is the throne of Edward

the Confessor. Scaffolding is in the process of being erected

to supply lighting for the Coronation. Archbishop Lang and

Churchill inspect it with satisfaction.

Churchill pours two nips of whiskey into metal cups nested in a

hip flask.

They look at each other in silence.

"George, your undoubted King!" echoes through the Abby.

Lang is on the phone. The door is open. While talking he

watches the work preparations. On the phone he tells someone:

Logue enters and sits at the table. Myrtle serves him.

Stunned silence, then.

Valentine calls from the next room:

He exits. Myrtle waits. Looks at herself, bemused, reflected in

a glass-fronted cabinet. Even does a curtsey.

The last of the preparation crew are being scurried out by Lang.

He gives a final, satisfied, look at the cavernous space, like a

director preparing the stage for a final scene. He quotes

Shakespeare, extremely pleased with himself:

He exits.

THE CAMERA explores various elements:

The Throne of Edward the Confessor.

Beneath it, a large rough-hewn stone: The Stone Of Scone.

Leaning against the Throne, a huge sword, set there for the next

Coronation rehearsal.

Majestic stained glass windows of saints, kings, and martyrs.

Rows of pews, worn with centuries of use.

Graves of the mighty: kings, poets, and statesmen.

This Abbey holds the history of a nation.

Footsteps resonate.

Lionel enters.   Trips over one of the gravestones.

Lights snap on skewering Lionel. Bertie steps into view wearing

a coat against the night chill of the stone cathedral.

Lang turns on his heel.

Lionel ignores what has just happened.

The faint CLICKING WHIR of a film projector is heard.

On the screen: archive footage of the Coronation, capturing the

pomp and ceremony. Cigar smoke rises up. The voices of

Churchill and Lang can be heard.

The footage freezes momentarily.

The archive footage continues, but it is not of the Coronation.

David and Wallis visiting the Fuhrer in Germany: Hitler

gallantly kissing Mrs Simpson's hand while Goring and the Duke

of Windsor beam; David giving the Nazi salute. FREEZE FRAME.

The lights come on. For once, Churchill is speechless.

Bertie and Logue are rehearsing.

Bertie holds out his hand, demandingly. Somewhat hurt, Lionel

hands it over.

Bertie leaves with the shilling, exiting the back way.

Logue opens the waiting room door.

Willie nods again. Then, haltingly:

Willie beams.

The dreaded BBC microphone.

The room has been transformed into an ad hoc broadcasting studio

for this all-important occasion.

The luminous dial of a wireless.   Unbearable silence. Then:

This is being listened to by Myrtle and the boys. The boys look

at their mum. Suddenly they explode with cheers as the radio

address continues:

WORLD - NIGHT OR DAY, DEPENDING ON LOCATION

In homes, pubs (where we see the man with the rosacea nose),

clubs, hotels, boarding houses, factories, mines, prisons, a

shearing shed in New Zealand, cattle station in Australia, sites

in India, South Africa, loci around the Commonwealth and Empire.

China. Japan. The Kremlin. The White House. Hitler's mountain

top wolf den. The South of France (where David and Wallis listen

dolefully.)

During this, the address continues, with dramatic pauses to be

sure, but no real hesitations.

End the montage with a return to the exterior of Buckingham

Palace. Outside, stand solemn crowds, listening to the speech

on loudspeakers. PAN THEIR FACES, the faces of England,

stalwart and resolved.

The two girls listen to their father on the radio.

Lilibet's expression tells it all - she can hear it, her father

is truly King.

CONTINUOUS

Bertie, in his quiet way is totally in command, and utterly

magnificent. Everyone in the room is awed as he concludes:

