Reting Rinpoche ... Regent of Tibet, served in the years between

Lama of Sera ... Keustang Rinpoche  A high lama.

Lhamo Dhondrup ... The Fourteenth Dalai Lama.  Also known

Lobsang Samten ... The Dalai Lama's immediate older brother.

Tsering Dolma  ... The Dalai Lama's older sister.

Mother ... The Dalai Lama's mother.

Father ... The Dalai Lama's father.

Chinese Governor ... Representative of China in Amdo Province

Takster Rinpoche ... The Dalai Lam's oldest brother, abbot of

Bodyguard ... A Khamba, monk bodyguard.

The Attendants ... Masters of the Kitchen, the Robe and the

Lord Chamberlain ... The official closest to the Dalai Lama.  A

Norbu Thundrup ... A sweeper who works at the Potala.

The Yigstang and the Tsitang ... The Tibetan Government.  Monks

Taktra Rinpoche ... The Regent who replaced Reting Rinpoche.

Ling Rinpoche ... A senior tutor, a monk.

Kashag ... The Dalai Lama's personal cabinet of advisors.

Nechung Oracle ... The monk medium for the deity, Droje Drakden.

Lukhangwa and Lobsang Tashi ... The Prime Ministers

Muslim Man, Tibetan Woman, Noble Boy ... People the Dalai Lama

General Chiang Chin-wu ... First representative of Communist

Mao Tse Tung ... Chairman of the Chinese Communist Party.

Khamba Leaders ... Leaders of the Tibetan Resistance Movement.

Ghurka Soldiers ... Indians who make up the welcoming party for

The Himalayas.

A still photograph, a portrait, of a mountain;  the north

face of Chomolungma - a peak also known as Mount Everest -

twenty-nine thousand feet high.

We hear a very young boy speak.

A woman speaks:

Portrait of a mountain - Khangbochen - craggy peaks covered

with snow, twenty-four thousand feet high.

Portrait of a mountain - Shishapangma - twenty-six thousand

feet high.

Portrait of a mountain - Anye Machin II - twenty thousand

feet high and slightly obscured by clouds.

Now, the foothills.  The still photograph of this barren

mountain range comes to life as we see something moving.

It is a small caravan - traveling this narrow mountain pass.

CLOSER on this caravan.  We can make out eight or ten men,

walking, and on horseback, dressed in heavy, brocade coats,

and large woolen hats, black braids trailing down their

backs.  A yellow palanquin is carried by four large monks,

wearing maroon robes.

The caravan reaches the top of the mountain pass and turns -

a sudden shift in direction - a switchback.  The travelers

head downhill.

Now, we see the mens's destination.  A lake.  An incredibly

blue, circular lake, sunk between snow-dusted mountains.  It

is LHAMO I' LATSO - "the Oracle Lake" - and it shimmers in

the sunlight.

As the lake comes into view, a young man pushes back the

curtain of the yellow palanquin and peers down at it.

The man is dressed in royal robes.  He is young, twenty four

years old.  His name is RETING RINPOCHE.  He is the Regent

of Tibet.

The color of the lake changes - from brilliant turquoise, to

a deep, murky, unfathomable darkness.

The woman laughs.

The palanquin is set down on a flat rock overlooking the

lake.  The water's color changes again, to a deep purple,

then blue again, then red, then indigo.

Silence.

The noblemen and monks surround Reting as he steps out of

the palanquin.

One man stands out here, a monk, a high lama in fact, with a

kind face and fantastic, mesmerizing eyes.  He is the LAMA

OF SERA.

Reting stares at the lake.

The water turns a light grey, and an image appears - obscure

at first, then becoming more solid.  A vision.

He sees a house - a small, stone, one-story, u-shaped house.

The house has a flat, tile roof and an unusual, wooden rain

gutter, with windows outlined in black and a prayer flag in

the courtyard.  A spotted dog is in front of the house,

barking, though we cannot hear him.  The vision becomes

completely clear, for an instant - clear enough to see the

face of a young boy at the window.

CLOSE on Reting Rinpoche.  Looking.  Searching.

Cut to:  a portrait of a mountain:  Kyeri - a majestic,

glacier mountain - the "house mountain" of the village of

Takster, Amdo Province, North Eastern Tibet.

Sound returns as the wind whistles around this jagged,

mountain peak and then the view moves down, below the tree

line, and into the rhododendron forest and the farmlands,

until it comes to rest on a small, stone, u-shaped house.  A

house caught in the dawn's mist.

CLOSE on the face of a sleeping child:  a boy, LHAMO

DHONDRUP, age two and one-half years.  He is dreaming.  He

is about to wake up.

Today, his life will change.

We stay on the boy's face until, slowly, his eyes open -

beautiful, dark, eyes.

INT.  TIBETAN PEASANT HOME, KITCHEN   DAWN (1937)

The MOTHER walks past the boy, her woolen skirt swaying in

the rosy light.  A seven year-old brother - LOBSANG SAMTEN -

and a teenage sister - TSERING DOLMA - share Lhamo's kitchen

mattress.  Lhamo looks at them, and then he turns to see the

heavy felt boots of his FATHER, as the man walks through the

room and out the door.  Lhamo finds the kind face of his

MOTHER.  She is looking at him.

EXT.  COURTYARD  DAWN

The boy walks across the stone courtyard as we hear the

sounds of this country morning:  the snorting of horses,

clucking of hens, a command from the Father as the man feeds

the animals.

The boy scratches, he pees.  He sees his Mother on the roof.

She is a silhouette against the dawn, as she feeds cedar and

yak chips into the incense burner - sending white, curly

smoke up, to circle the prayer flag and its clusters of

printed mantras.

We pull back as the spotted dog begins to bark.

Lhamo's house is the house in the vision.

INT.  KITCHEN  MORNING

It is a good day.  There is cheese for breakfast.

Lhamo's Father sits on a cushion at the head of a low table.

Fresh bread appears, yogurt, roasted barley (tsampa).

Lhamo pushes at his Father.

The Father reluctantly gets up and gives his seat to Lhamo.

Lhamo settles and waits for his Mother to hand him his bowl

of tsampa.  He bestows a most beautiful smile on his family.

EXT.  COURTYARD  DAY

The Father is leaving the yard with a short string of horses

when there is a sudden commotion.

The CHINESE GOVERNOR is passing through this little village.

He is a ferocious looking man, dressed in ornate brocade,

his horse eguipped with tack that looks like armor.  He is

surrounded by a dozen Chinese soldiers, all on huge horses,

ruling the road, kicking up mud.

Lhamo's Father stops.  He holds still.  He looks to the

house.

The Mother is holding the children against her in the

doorway.  Quiet.  Watching.

The Governor and his entourage move on.  When they are out

of sight, Lhamo's Father makes his departure.

EXT.  COURTYARD  DAY

Lhamo straddles the window sill, slapping his bottom as if

he were a horse, shouting:

His Mother is making bread in the kitchen.

INT.  KITCHEN  DUSK

Lhamo is playing a game with pebbles on the raised, wooden

platform in the kitchen.  The fire is lit.  He is alone.

The dog begins to bark.

A middle-aged man, the SERVANT, wearing heavy, ragged

clothes and wrapped boots, enters the kitchen.

Lhamo slides over so that the man can sit on the platform

beside him.  The man picks up a few pebbles and drops them -

he knows the game.

We recognize this servant.  His name is KEUSTANG RINPOCHE.

He is one of the monks we saw at the Oracle lake, the one

with the mesmerizing eyes.  Keustang Rinpoche is the Lama of

Sera Monastery.

Lhamo sees a dark brown rosary around the Servant's neck and

immediately pulls at the string of beads.

The Servant takes the rosary off and gives it to the boy.

Lhamo hangs the string of beads around his own neck.  The

Servant makes a move to take back the rosary, but Lhamo

resists.

Lhamo looks up, into the man's piercing, black eyes.

The Mother enters and immediately sees the rosary around her

son's neck.  She gives it back to the Servant.

Lhamo goes back to his game.  The Mother hands the tired man

a slice of bread and a steaming cup of tea.  The man's

hands are shaking.  He cannot look the woman in the eye.

EXT.  COURTYARD  DAWN

The travelers make their departure at dawn.

As the party reaches the gate, Lhamo runs from the house,

crying:

The men stop.  Lhamo runs to the Servant.

Lhamo is in tears.

A pause.

The travelers head down the road.

Mother and child return to their home, the Mother carrying

the boy on her hip as he swings himself around to take a

last look at the strangers.

EXT.  COURTYARD  DAWN

The Father readies a pack train of horses.  Lobsang and

Lhamo pull on the cinche straps.

EXT.  FARMLAND  DAY

The Mother plows with a heavy yoke attached to a large yak.

Lobsang Samten and Tsering Dolma help their mother.  Lhamo

sleeps under an umbrella.

EXT.  COURTYARD  DAY

Lobsang and Lhamo running, carrying a bowl of eggs.

INT.  KITCHEN  NIGHT

Lobsang is wrapped in maroon wool, trying to hold still as

his Mother pins and stitches.  Lhamo sits, sipping tea,

watching, woefully.

INT.  ALTAR ROOM  DAWN

Lobsang pours water from one small, copper bowl into six

others, seven in all, placed on an altar before a statue of

Buddha.  As the rest of the family watches, the Mother

lights the butter lamps, whispering:

EXT.  COURTYARD  DAY

Lobsang is perched on the back of a horse - in front of his

Father.  The two leave home, goodbyes having already been

said.  Mother, sister and little brother remain behind.

EXT.  PARENT'S ROOM  NIGHT

Mother lies down with Lhamo, holding him.

His Mother laughs.

CLOSE on the Mother as she holds Lhamo, now her only son at

home.

A view of Kyeri mountain turning from a pre-dawn purple to

light pink in the sunlight.

EXT.  COURTYARD  DAWN

The multi-colored prayer flags flap in the wind as the cock

crows and the animals come awake.  Father exits the house

and begins his day.

EXT.  SIDE OF THE HOUSE  DAY

Lhamo is watching two bugs fighting when he hears the dog

bark.  He climbs the low, stone wall and looks out at the

road.

Six TRAVELERS approach.  Four of the men are dressed as

nobility, wearing red and gold silk.  Two men are monks.

The Mother meets the men in the courtyard. A monk steps

forward.  He bows.

Lhamo jumps off the wall.  He carefully lifts the smaller

beetle from the path of the larger beetle.  He places the

rescued bug safely in a clump of grass.

INT. PARENT'S ROOM  DAY

CLOSE on the faces of the six men.

CLOSE on the small face of Lhamo as he looks down at the

bed.

Lying on a piece of yellow silk are many objects.  There are

three of each type of object:  three walking sticks, three

drums, three silver pens, three eating bowls, three bells,

three rosaries, three pairs of spectacles.

The Lama of Sera - Keustang Rinpoche - hands Lhamo the

rosary he had so coveted when the man first visited.

Lhamo considers the request, then climbs onto the bed to

study the objects.  The drum and the bell he chooses

quickly.

Keustang Rinpoche watches the boy gather the items.  He

looks at the yellow silk and the boy's small, fine hands.

He dares not look directly at the boy.

Lhamo picks up one walking stick - a lovely, bronze-handled

one.  He swings it around, but he finally rejects it in

favor of a plain, iron-handled stick.  He makes his own pile

of these things, then looks at the Lama of Sera.

Keustang Rinpoche takes the boy's hands in his own.  He

turns them over, examines them.

The Lama carefully pulls back the boy's overalls.  There is

a little birthmark, like a conch shell, on his shoulder.

Keustang Rinpoche pulls up the boy's pants legs.  There is a

funny skin marking on the legs, like tiger stripes.

The Lama rearranges the boy's clothing, then one more time,

takes the beautiful, little hands in his own and whispers:

He says to the others, in a soft, secretive voice:

In the background, by an open curtain, we see Lhamo's

Mother.

She says, softly:

Keustang releases the boy's hands and brings his own closed

palms up to his forehead.

The Mother begins to cry.

INT.  ALTAR ROOM  DAY

Little Lhamo, now dressed in yellow, fills the copper water

bowls with difficulty.

His parents stand beside him.  They share one, frightened

curious look.

CLOSE on the statue of Buddha.  It is an image of Chenrezig,

the Buddha of Compassion.  He has eleven heads and four,

outstretched arms.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE  DAY

Lhamo sits in the saddle in front of his Mother.  His Father

and Sister ride beside them, through an incredible, empty,

Tibetan landscape.  A Monk rides lead.

EXT.  EST. SHOT / KUMBUM MONASTERY  DAY

Turquoise-roof, golden-pagoda, a beautiful, white-washed

monastery built against a terraced, green hillside of Amdo.

INT.  PRIVATE ROOM, MONASTERY  DAY

Mother pats her son Lhamo's unruly hair and makes a soft,

comforting sound.  Lobsang is there beside his brother.

Lobsang is already dressed as a tiny monk - in a maroon

robe, with short, clipped hair  An older brother, TAKSTER,

age 17, a lama, is there.

The Mother lies:

Lhamo holds up two fingers.

Takster moves closer.  She places the sad youngster in

Takster's arms.

Lhamo kisses her, as does Lobsang and even Takster falls

into her arms for a moment.  Then, she turns and goes,

quickly.

A Monk appears.  He produces a concertina and begins to play

for the little boy.

But, Lhamo begins to cry, through the music, through the

hugs of his brothers.  As a result of Lhamo's tears, Lobsang

begins to cry.  Takster holds them both.  The music

continues. The older, wiser, Takster begins to cry, too.

The three brothers hold one another.  Three brothers, three

monks, crying for their mother.  The music continues,

echoing in this stone monastery.

The young "Kundun" is gently rocked by his older brother.

He begins to fall asleep.

DREAM SEQUENCE

The sound of the concertina becomes chanting and we see row

after row of monks, in a temple, their voices mingling in

the empty room.

View of a courtyard, with young novices, reciting.  Lobsang

is among them.

A TEACHER, a very stern-looking monk, carrying a thick, flat

board, menacingly, behind his back, walks among the

students.

A golden head of a Buddha - a huge head - appears to be

bursting through an archway at the end of a dark hallway.

The Chinese Governor stands, like a giant, against the blue

sky.  Omnipotent.  Frightening.

Keustang Rinpoche, also a head against blue sky, argues:

CLOSE on the Chinese Governor.

CLOSE on Keustang Rinpoche.  Slowly, he nods.

An image of the Father and the Mother, standing in their

courtyard, staring at the departing search party.

The Mother asks over and over:

Her husband does not know.

View of the Mother, on the roof, feeding cedar and yak chips

into the incense burner.  We hear:

DRAAM SEQUENCE ENDS

Lhamo wakes up.  He is in a brilliant, green room.

INT. STUDY ROOM, KUMBUM MONASTERY  DAY

The stern-looking Teacher from his dream is there, reading

scripture, reciting:

Lhamo looks down at the complicated words.

The boy just waits, sad, lonely.

The Teacher offers Lhamo an apricot.  Lhamo takes the fruit.

The Monk pats the boy's head, gently, and Lhamo takes

shelter in the kind man's massive robes.  The view becomes

sunlight through deep, maroon wool.

INT. DRELJAM  DAY

thamo and Lobsang  sit inside a idreljam" - a rough

palanquin, which is attached to two poles and carried

between two mules.  The vehicle rises and falls, pitches and

twists as it is carried along the roadless, Tibetan plains.

Lhamo reaches forward and pulls back a curtain.

EXT.  TIBETAN PLATEAU  DAY

The boy is traveling with a caravan.  It is not, in fact, an

enormous caravan, maybe fifty people, including:  Lhamo's

family, members of the search party, monks, Muslim traders.

The dreljam DRIVER looks over at Lhamo and signals that the

boy should close the curtain.

Lhamo does so, only to lean across his brother to look out

the other side of his tiny carriage.

The other side opens to a view of the great, empty land.  A

herd of deer grazes beside the travelers.  Mountains rise in

the distance.  A flock of geese flies overhead.

Lhamo closes the curtain.

INT. DRELJAM  DAY

Lhamo elbows his brother.  Lobsang elbows him back.  The two

begin to squabble.

They hit and pinch until finally the movement of the

carriage stops.  The Driver reaches in through the open

curtains and separates the boys, each to his own side of the

dreljam.

Inside his tiny carriage, young Lhamo now sits quiet and

composed.

EXT.  CAMPSITE  NIGHT

A cluster of fantastic, Tibetan tents are set up; white

cotton tents, with sharp corners, peaked ceilings and

elaborate, appliqued designs.  Campfires glow, animals bed

down, stars shine overhead.

INT.  TIBETAN TENT  NIGHT

CLOSE on a group of ancient, stern-faced MONKS.

CLOSE on the baby-faced, Lhamo Dhondrup.

One Monk pulls a huge pair of scissors from his robes.

Lhamo makes a dive for the tent's door.

EXT. TENT  NIGHT

Standing outside the tent is a BODYGUARD - a huge, burly

man, wearing monk's robes.  He turns to the boy.  In one

hand he holds a big stick.  His face is distorted and

deformed by a large tumor under one eye.  It is a

frightening sight.  He looks like a monster to the child.

Lhamo jumps back inside the tent.  The Bodyguard closes the

appliqued flap.

INT.  DRELJAM  DAY

Lhamo has had a haircut.  His Mother walks beside the

carriage, holding his hand.

EXT. PLAINS OF TIBET  NIGHT

By candlelight, Lhamo is transferred from the rugged, simple

carriage, to one of exquisite, yellow silk.

INT. PALANQUIN  JUST BEFORE DAWN

Lhamo peeks out of the silk curtain as he hears the arrival

of many horses, many men.  SOLDIERS - hundreds of Tibetan

soldiers - surround the palanquin.

EXT.  PLAINS, OUTSIDE LHASA  DAWN

The yellow palanquin is carried across a human border of

Tibetan noblemen.  These fantastic-looking men and women

part, and drop to the ground in prostration, as the

palanquin moves through their welcoming committee.

INT. PEACOCK TENT  DAWN

Lhamo walks along a long, patterned carpet, looking up, at

this lofty tent's stunning, blue silk, ceiling.

He is led to a tall, wooden throne, and he is lifted, and

then he climbs to the top.  Lhamo settles in a cross-legged

position on the brocade cushion.

He looks down.

Hundred of monks, abbots, noblemen, Nepalese, Bhutanese,

Chinese, even a red-headed Englishman - they all bow to

Lhamo.

Reting Rinpoche, the young Regent of Tibet, the man who saw

this boy's face in his vision, stands below the throne.  He

addresses the crowd:

And the Regent turns, hikes up his gorgeous robes, and

prostrates before the child.

In the crowd stand Lhamo's Mother and Father and Lobsang

Samten.

On their faces, we must see that they did not realize who

their son, their brother, was believed to be.

First the Mother, and then the Father, bow in front of their

youngest child.

Finally, Lobsang.

We hear the sound of a great, Tibetan horn.

We hear peels of childish laughter.

INT.  THE POTALA  DAY

Lobsang and Lhamo skid, slide, skate down the endless,

slippery hallways of this huge, labyrinthine monastery.

Three Monks scurry behind the boys, trying to keep up,

trying to keep the young incarnate from slipping out of

their sight.

They shout, in loud stage whispers:

The monks are no match for the little boys, who are quickly

out of sight.

INT. DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  THE POTALA  DAY

Reting Rinpoche sits cross-legged on the floor of this

brightly-painted, red room.

Across from him sits Lhamo, dressed in fine, yellow silk.

These are simple rooms, decorated with statues, deity

scrolls and mandalas, an altar to Buddha.  Behind a glass

case are toys, mixed in with the Buddhist artifacts:  dolls,

puppets, balls, blocks, trains.

Reting Rinpoche is speaking.

Reting blows his nose.

CLOSE on Lhamo - Tenzin Gyatso.

At the curtain behind Lhamo, we notice the curly-toed shoes

of a monk, a man who must be standing in the next room.

INT. DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  DAY

In the room immediately adjacent to this bedroom, we now see

the three Monks who chased the young boy down the slippery

halls.

They are the Dalai Lama's personal attendants - the MASTER

OF THE RITUAL, the MASTER OF ThE KITCHEN, and the MASTER OF

THE ROBE.  (It is the Master of the Kitchen who stands

directly behind the curtain.)

The LORD CHAMBERLAIN is also there.  He is a monk.  A tall,

angular man, with almost nordic features:  large, round

eyes, a yellowish mustache, sharp nose.

All of these men will become quite familiar to us, as will

the man standing, listening, behind the attendants.

He is a sweeper, a man named NORBU THUNDRUP, age thirty.  He

is tall, and gangly, with a wispy beard and a pock-marked

face.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOM  DAY

INT.  ADJACENT ROOM  DAY

The Regent walks through this room on his way out.

A passing look from Norbu lets us know that Reting

Rinpoche is not well-liked.

The Lord Chamberlain goes to meet with the Dalai Lama.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOM  DAY

The Lord Chamberlain bows to the boy and then unpacks his

parcel.

He has a rolled, parchment document.

He has a beautiful, carved, wooden box.

The Lord Chamberlain points to the mural on the wall behind

the boy.  It is an elaborate, story-painting.

The boy looks.

The Lord Chamberlain points to a golden statue of a round

man in a peaked hat.

Tenzin Gyatso nods.

The Lord Chamberlain lifts a framed photograph of a bald,

charismatic man, with razor sharp eyebrows, pictured sitting

on a throne.

The boy looks at the photo.

The Lord Chamberlain places the state seal in the young

boy's hands and indicates that the boy should bring the

heavy instrument down hard on the parchment.

The boy does.  The Lord Chamberlain scribbles a little

something on a tab of attached paper, then bows to the boy.

VIEW FROM A HIGH WINDOW

Outside, up a country path, young herders lead their cattle

in from the grazing fields.  We can hear the boys singing -

a Tibetan street song.

INT. DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOM  DUSK

The view comes in the window and reveals the young Dalai

Lama, sitting on the floor with Norbu Thundrup, the sweeper.

Tenzin Gyatso has arranged a battlefield of soldiers -

little men, made of colored-dough.

Tenzin Gyatso is ferocious in his strategy, taking Norbu's

men.

Norbu Thundrup plays like a child.  It is a fight to the

finish.

Tenzin Gyatso has lost;  he dissolves into tears.

Norbu snaps his fingers.

Tenzin touches the soft, bald, chin of Norbu.

And then, Tenzin Gyatso tries to snap his fingers.  He

cannot.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  DUSK

Tenzin Gyatso stands at the window, watching, listening.

His hands knead the colored dough into balls, ready to

create the next army, the future battleground, as he

recites, softly:

Norbu Thundrup smiles as he polishes the floor, clearing it

of tsampa dough.

INT.  GREAT HALL, THE POTALA  DAY

The Great Hall in the Potala is the seat of Tibetan

Government.

These palace walls are hung with beautiful, old thangkas

(silk embroideries or paintings),  depicting the life of

Buddha.

Inside the hall sits the acting government:  the YIGSTANG

and the TSITANG - four monks, four laymen - all dressed in

their appropriate simplicity and elaborateness.  These men

sit in two rows, facing one another.  The senior monk and

the senior layman sit a bit forward. They are the speakers.

The senior LAYMAN is on his knees, speaking.

INT.  HALLWAY  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso peeks through a door at the great assembly.

The Lord Chamberlian stands behind him.

INT. GREAT HALL  DAY

The Layman continues.

INT.  HALLWAY  DAY

The Dalai Lama is confused, but continues listening.

INT.  GREAT HALL  DAY

The Layman returns to his cross-legged position.

The senior MONK speaks.

There is audible expression of tension.

The Layman gets to his knees.

INT.  HALLWAY  DAY

The Lord Chamberlain touches the boy's shoulder and Tenzin

Gyatso leaves his hiding place, as the speaker's voice fades

away.

As the two walk down the hallway, Tenzin Gyatso spots an

unusual wooden door.  He lets the Lord Chamberlain get a

little bit ahead of him, and then the boy tries the door.

It is heavy.  It almost opens.

INT.  HALLWAY  LATER, DUSK

Tenzin Gyatso and his brother Lobsang are pulling at the

heavy door.  Behind them, in the distance, we hear:

The door opens.  The boys disappear inside.

INT.  STORAGE ROOM  DUSK

A treasure awaits them.

It looks like Aladdin's cave - full of odd, European items.

There are glittering music boxes, a porcelain sink, a gilded

mirror, a lacquered rocking horse.  There are hats,

umbrellas and even a pair of lace-up, cordovan shoes.

Tenzin Gyatso lifts a reel of film.  There are piles of

magazines and books.  There is a stack of tires in the back

corner.  The boys uncover a train set and a good collection

of lead soldiers.  The Dalai Lama pockets a gold watch.

Just as the monks find their young charges and we hear them

at the door, Tenzin sees something truly spectacular.  It is

a telescope.

The monks enter the room as the young Dalai Lama reaches for

this miracle.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  NIGHT

We are in the adjacent room, listening, as Norbu Thundrup

tells a bedtime story.

Golden butter lamps burn before a statue of Buddha.

INT.  BEDROOM  NIGHT

The boy is in bed.  The Sweeper finishes-off his story as

the boy wiggles deeper under the covers.

The Sweeper tucks the boy in as the Master of the Robe

finishes his nightly preparations and with a pat and a

smile, the two men leave the room.

A mouse steals a bit of tsampa from the offerings placed on

the altar before the Buddha.

Tenzin Gyatso peeks out from under his covers and looks to

see if those curly-toed shoes are visible under the

partition.  They are.  The Master of the Kitchen is still

near.

Tenzin Gyatso pulls the golden pocket watch from under the

covers.  He pries and digs at the back of the watch until he

succeeds in popping it open, revealing its miraculous

insides.

Finally, Tenzin Gyatso's eyelids grow heavy.  The camera

passes over his face, as his eyes close.

The boy begins to speak, mumble, as he falls asleep:

We find two scrolls;  the first is PENDEN LHAMO, the special

protectress of the Dalai Lama.

She rides her wild mule through a sea of blood - between

rows of jagged mountains.  Pointed fingers and spreading

toes, her hair gone crazy, her fangs revealed - the details

are incredible.  A garland of freshly severed heads hangs

around her body, snakes hold up her skirt, five skulls form

ber crown.

Beside her, on the second scroll is MAHAKALA.  He is the

fierce representation of the Buddha of Compassion.  Crows

fly in the clouds to the left of the terrifying, black, six-

armed figure.

A skull rosary is held in the upper right arm, a Trident is

held in the left hand.  The deity wears a crown of five

skulls.  He has three eyes.  He tramples an elephant.

We might have been in a dream, as the camera finally moves

back to find the peaceful1 protected face of the young Dalai

Lama.  Asleep.

The camera moves across the mural devoted to the story of

the Fifth Dalai Lama.  It is a fantasy of green, with

mountains and lakes and deities and monsters.

We find the statue of Seventh Dalai Lama, sitting on his

golden cushion, and we look, deep into the eyes of the

Thirteenth Dalai Lama.  Fantastic.  Deeper.  Deeper.

VIEW THROUGH AN EYEPIECE

We see the Dalai Lama place his young eye at the viewfinder.

EXT.  TERRACE, POTALA  DAY

Norbu Thundrup holds the boy steady.

And, a wondorous view of Lhasa is presented.

Vendors hawk their goods to elegant ladies, wearing

turquoise jewelry and carrying silken parasols.  Animals are

herded through town by young boys.  Children play and

squabble.  A white wall is covered with cartoons, lampoons -

political posters - picturing the Regent, perhaps, as a man

holding too much power.

The view travels and we see a prison yard.  Shackled men

share the yard with hairy, fat dogs.

One man looks up and sees that the yard is under

surveillance.  Of course the men all know that this terrace

belongs to the boy Dalai Lama.

As the boy watches, first one poor, ragged man, then another

prostrates.

Tenzin Gyatso pulls away from the telescope.  He waves to

the prisoners.

EXT.  VALLEY OUTSIDE LHASA  DAY  (SUMMER, 1942)

The boy rides in his palanquin of yellow silk.

He is older now, seven or eight.  He peers through the

curtain.

A grand procession carries the Dalai Lama from the Potala to

his summer residence, the Norbulinka.

Monks walk in procession, as do members of the aristocracy,

wearing their finest gowns and jewelry, holding their finest

parasols, and soldiers, wearing ancient uniforms.  There are

horses, banners and carriages.  Bodyguards carry the Dalai

Lama's possessions - wrapped in yellow silk.  A band plays,

"God Save the King."

It is a magnificent display, and along the side of the road,

Tibetans prostrate in the presence of the boy, not daring to

look at him.

EXT.  THE NORBULINKA  DAY

Establishing shot of this lovely park.

Zt looks like a sweet, summer home compared to the looming

expansiveness of the Potala.  It is filled with deer and

antelope, peacocks and nesting birds.  An eccentric

collection of trees grow here - some indigenous, some

gifts - bearing flowers and fruit.  There are fish ponds and

even a Kyichu river tributary nearby.

We find the young Dalai Lama standing by this tributary

daring to put one foot on a slippery, stepping stone.  An

Attendant gently pulls him back.

Beyond the river, a herder leads a small group of braying

sheep towards town.  The boy watches.  He listens to the

herder's song.

EXT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  DAY

The Dalai Lama drops bits of food into a fish pond.  He

calls the huge, lazy fish to come eat.

The boy pushes the bigger ones away with a stick.

EXT.  YELLOW WALL, NORBULINKA  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso runs through an open gate in a mustard yellow

wall (which separates the Dalai Lama's residence from the

rest of the Norbulinka), and up the steps leading to a

white, one story, home - his parent's.

INT.  PARENT'S HOME, NORBULINKA  DAY

A startling, blue room.

The young Dalai Lama leans on the table where is Father sits

eating pork rinds.

Lobsang is there, practicing his writing on a chalk board.

Tenzin Gyatso grabs one pork rind, then another, then a

third.

The Father uses the grease from the roasted lamb on the

table to caress his long mustache and twirl each side into a

point.

The Dalai Lama takes another, and then, suddenly, the boy

reaches up and for no reason, he pulls on his Father's

mustache, obviously hurting the man.  The Father slaps the

boy's hand, hard.

The boy sits back, and begins drawing imaginary letters on

the tabletop with his slapped hand.

His Father reaches out and takes the hurt hand.  He pulls

the boy into his arms.

The Master of the Robe knocks at the door.  Father and son

look up.

The young boy sits straight up on his Father's lap and says,

defiantly:

The surprised Monk backs away from the door.

The boy thinks.

The Mother has been in the doorway, listening.

Tenzin Gyatso disengages from his Father's arms and goes to

his Mother.  Tenzin reaches into one of her large, apron

pockets and finds nothing.  Another.  Nothing.  He reaches

into her sash and pulls out a special-looking sweet.  She

takes the boy's hand and leads him from the house.

Lobsang looks at his Father.

CLOSE on the Father's face.

EXT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  DAY

The Mother walks the boy back to his residence, through the

gate in the yellow wall.

EXT.  DALAI LAMA'S RESIDENCE, NORBULINKA  DAY

They have reached the residence.  The boy's Mother caresses

his little head.

Tenzin grabs at her stomach and shrieks with laughter.

The Mother places her hands on Tenzin Gyatso's.

A string of old monks, stand, waiting for the naughty boy.

INT.  ENTRANCE HALL, DALAI LAMA'S RESIDENCE, NORBULINKA,

The boy runs up the stairs and towards the old men, but he

stops and looks at a small cabinet standing, unobtrusively,

in a corner.  Tenzin Gyatso goes to the cabinet and rattles

the locked door.

A monk takes the boy by the hand and leads him down a

hallway.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, EVENING

A bell and a dorge are laid out on a small table.  Tenzin

Gyatso sits in front of this table.

A monk is chanting in low, deep tones, in the background.

The Dalai Lama's teacher, TAKTRA RINPOCHE, sits on the

floor.  (Being the teacher, Taktra Rinpoche sits slightly

higher than the Dalai Lama.)  Taktra is an older man, in his

sixties.  He is stern, solid, no-nonsense.

Taktra Rinpoche begins a prayer.

But the boy leaps up from his table and goes to Taktra and

hangs around his neck, shouting:

Taktra gives the boy just the slightest of looks.

Tenzin Gyatso releases the Lama and goes back to his own

table.

Taktra Rinpoche has a small table with the same hand

instruments in front of him.  The teacher lifts the dorge,

in a particular fashion, and rotates it.

Tenzin Gyatso lifts his dorge.  Taktra's hands move to the

boy's and show him the correct movement.  It is tried again.

Now, the bell is lifted and rung.

Taktra stops.  He nods to the boy.

As the chanting continues, Taktra Rinpoche begins a weaving

motion with his hands, delicate, beautiful, hypnotic.

Tenzin Gyatso copies the elder.

We are CLOSE on the boy's moving hands. The chanting becomes

the voices of a hundred men, as we FADE OUT.

FADE IN:  on the boy's hands, but they are a little larger -

they are the hands of an eleven or twelve year-old boy - and

the motion they carry out is on the verge of becoming

extraordinarily beautiful.

INT.  DARK ROOM, POTALA  EVENING (1944)

Tenzin Gyatso sits alone, in a small, dark green, room.  He

is older.  His robes have changed slightly, his manner is

more refined, more dignified.

He is on a retreat.

There is a soft knock at the door.  The door is opened and

food is placed inside the small room by bodiless hands.

Tenzin Gyatso collects his food.  He sips his tea and eats

his tsampa, while reading from a long, narrow stack of

scriptures.  Thangkas of MILERAPA - the great Tibetan poet

and teacher - hang on the walls.

We notice the curly-toed shoes of the Master of the Kitchen,

just visible beneath the wooden door.

EXT.  COURTYARD, THE POTALA  NIGHT

The boy walks alone, moving to the rhythm of a memorization.

His breath consolidates in the cold night air.  The sky is

brilliant with stars.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, THE POTALA  DAY

School is in session.

LING RINPOCHE is teaching.  Ling is a young, shy, brilliant

monk, with a very round face.  He is now senior tutor.

Tenzin Gyatso, sitting cross legged on a cushion, responds.

Now we CUT BACK to Ling Rinpoche, but he is standing,

outside, in a courtyard.  He asks another question, but he

raises his right hand as he speaks, and lowers his left,

completing the question with a clap of the hands.

EXT.  COURTYARD, THE POTALA  DAY

It is a beautiful, blue-sky day.  The Dalai Lama is learning

"debate".  High Lamas sit on tapestry pillows, under

appliqued canopies, observing.  Young monks can be seen,

watching, from a greater distance.

The Lord Chamberlain sits to one side.  Taktra Rinpoche, now

Regent, is beside him.

The Dalai Lama sits on the ground at Ling's feet.

A long silence from His Holiness.  The Lamas wait on tender

hooks.  Finally, the boy says:

There is laughter.  Even Ling Rinpoche laughs and the boy

erupts into his beautiful, free, easy laugh.

A pause, and then:

Ling nods in approval.

He looks to the elders.

Taktra Rinpoche and the Lord Chamberlain are proud.

EXT.  SAME COURTYARD  DUSK

Tenzin Gyatso runs up a slant board and leaps off the edge -

a big jump, a flying leap.  He falls to the ground, then

gets up, laughing, and runs up the board again.

The same old monks who watched him debate, watch him play.

The Lord Chamberlain and Taktra Rinpoche are among them.

The Lord Chamberlain obviously loves watching his young

charge play.  The Regent is not so sure.

Tenzin Gyatso shouts:

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, THE POTALA  NIGHT

The Nechung Oracle is the protective deity of Tibet.

Tonight, he is in full trance.  It is an amazing sight.

The monk who is his medium spins and twirls, he wags his

heavy headdress about.  A round mirror glitters on his

chest.  Sweat pours from his brow, over his wildly grimacing

face.

The Oracle spits at the government officials in the room.

Horns blow, cymbals crash, incense burns.  The Oracle nears

the Dalai Lama and retreats from him.  Finally, he whispers

in the boy's ear.

And then, the Oracle gently straightens Tenzin Gyatso's

yellow robes, before the trance ends and the Oracle falls

into the arms of his attendants.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  NIGHT

Wind whistles through the Potala's hallways and porticos.

The Master of the Kitchen is clearing away the dinner

dishes.

The view of the floor reveals that a "toy" war is being

waged.

With a "Meccano" set, the young Dalai Lama has created what

looks like an airplane, and a tank.  These vehicles are

manned by beautifully detailed lead soldiers - British World

War One Field soldiers, French Legionaries and American

Artillery men.

Norbu Thundrup, is flying low with a tsampa~dough airplane.

He drops little tsampa-dough bombs from his hand.  He hits a

tank and knocks down a few lead soldiers.

The Lord Chamberlain enters.

A large, old-fashioned, short-wave radio broadcasts that

there is still a real war in progress.  The BBC report is of

the Pacific front.

The broadcast reports news of the civil war in China.

The Lord Chamberlain is silent.  Norbu answers.

Tenzin Gyatso gets to his feet and takes an atlas from his

table.   He lays the book open on the floor.

The Lord chamberlain sits on the floor.  He points to

Poland.

The Master of the Kitchen comes to look at the atlas.

Tenzin Gyatso turns to a well thumbed page:  Tibet.

They all look at huge China.

No one answers.

Finally, as Norbu Thundrup begins to gather up the tsampa-

dough:

Tenzin Gyatso turns to the Lord Chamberlain.

INT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  DAY

His Holiness works on an old movie projector.  A white-

haired, CHINESE MONK works with him.  The old Monk has very

little patience.  He bangs his hand on the table, and huffs

and puffs as the two try again to fiddle with this and that.

Tenzin Gyatso works diligently and calmly.

The old Monk mutters something in Chinese.  They thread a

roll of dusty film into the reel and spin the wheel.  The

film breaks.  The old monk bangs the table again.  The work

continues.

The monks slaps his head in horrid anticipation.

INT.  DARK ROOM, NORBULINKA  NIGHT

A movie begins, shown on a piece of cloth tacked to a wall.

It is a newsreel - footage from World War One. The

trenches.

The boy goes up to the cloth screen and touches it gently,

playing with his own shadow as men dash from foxholes across

a muddy, body strewn field.

The boy steps back and stares at the horror of real war;

men sleeping in the muddy foxholes, make-shift hospitals

tend the dying.  Youths - not much older than His Holiness -

weep into their filthy, bloody hands.

The Old Monk keeps his trembling hand on the noisy, hand-

operated, projector.

Tenzin Gyatso slowly sits, cross-legged, on the bare floor.

War does not look good on film.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, NORBULINKA  NIGHT

The boy sits alone, in front of his altar, praying.

Meditating.

INT.  ALTAR ROOM, THE NORBULINKA  DAY

A black room, lit by butter lamps.

Taktra Rinpoche and Tenzin Gyatso sit opposite one another,

cross-legged on the floor.  Taktra is the teacher, he sits a

bit higher.

The room is a shrine to Mahakala, the Dalai Lama's personal

deity.  Mahakala is present, in the form of a huge, golden

statue.

The boy has his head bent low to catch the Rinpoche's words.

There is much gesturing, much murmuring.  We might catch

only a word or two.

An oral teaching is being passed on, a lineage teaching.  It

is sacred and secret.

EXT.  UPPER COURTYARD, THE POTALA  DAY

CLOSE on a thangka of Penden Lhamo.

We hear monks debating.  It is Ling Rinpoche answering,

playing the student.

We find His Holiness, sitting, listening to the debate.

The view widens now and we are under a softly billowing,

appliqued canopy.  Maybe fifty monks and lamas are present.

This is an informal group.

Shots ring out.

The men jump to their feet, and rush out from under the

canopy.  The Dalai Lama is right in front.

More shots as the men stare out across the countryside.

We hear murmurs of:

We hear these snippets as the Dalai Lama runs from the group.

INT.  HALLWAYS, POTALA  DAY

It is almost black inside this old building.  The panting

boy runs up and up and up several staircases.

INT.  HALLWAY  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso runs down the hall and enters his red rooms.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  DAY

Norbu Thundrup is in the room and he moves ahead of the boy

- out to the terrace.

EXT.  DALAI LAMA'S TERRACE  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso climbs up on a small, wooden platform, and

mans his telescope.

The shooting continues.

The Lord Chamberlain arrives on the terrace.

The Lord Chamberlain peers through the telescope as the

shooting continues.

The Lord Chamberlain steps away from the telescope and the

boy takes his place.

The shooting slowly stops.

The boy looks up.

The Lord Chamberlain walks to a far, sheltered end of the

terrace.

Tenzin Gyatso slowly turns the telescope to see the prison

yard.

View through the telescope;  the yard is full of prisoners,

listening to the shooting.  One man sees the telescope aimed

at the prison and prostrates.  Then another, and another.

Tenzin Gyatso steps away from the telescope and turns to

follow his Lord Chamberlain.

EXT.  OTHER SIDE OF TERRACE  DAY

The Lord Chamberlain opens a yellowing letter and begins to

read.  Tenzin Gyatso sits down beside him.

CLOSE on the Lord Chamberlain.  Today, he appears tired;

the whites of his eyes appear enormous.  His voice is quite

beautiful.

Tenzin Gyatso unwinds the rosary from his wrist and begins

thumbing the brown beads.

He is finished.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, ADJACENT ROOM,  DAY

The Regent and the Lord Chamberlain are present.

Also present is the KASHAG - a council of four men:  one

monk, three laymen.  They are the Dalai Lama's advisory

cabinet.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOM  DAY

The boy rises from his desk.  Norbu says:

Tenzin Gyatso enters the adjacent room.

INT.  ADJACENT ROOM  DAY

The boy climbs onto a cushion and sits - a head above his

officials.  He is tentative, unsure of form and procedure.

There is an awkward, formal silence.  Then:

The boy motions to the table.

The tea is poured.

A shocking suggestion.

The men agree to this.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOM  NIGHT

The Dalai Lama sits at his desk, writing a letter.

The radio is on.  It is the BBC - with news of a Communist

advantage in Kuomintang China.

Norbu Thundrup enters.  The boy looks up.

Tenzin Gyatso lays down his pen.

EXT.  DALAI LAMA'S TERRACE  NIGHT

Tenzin Gyatso is alone.  He has a little smelting

arrangement built out on the terrace.  He lays a lead

soldier on the hot bottom of a heavy, metal bowl.

CLOSE on the soldier.  It begins to melt.

The boy has a pile of the soldiers.  He drops a second one

in the bowl.

We bear the sounds of Lhasa - laughter, street songs - and

we see the stars, hanging, it seems, just above the young

boy's head.

EXT.  NORBULINKA  DAY

The young Tenzin Gyatso bursts through the gate in the

Yellow Wall and runs across the beautiful garden to his

parents's home.

INT.  PARENTS'S HOME, NORBULINKA  DAY

A family gathering meets the boy's eye when he enters.

There is his Mother, his oldest sister, Tsering Dolma,

Lobsang Samten, a younger sister, Pema, baby brother Tendzin

Chuta, and his oldest brother, Takster.

We don't recognize these faces, of course, but the gathering

is obviously familial.

Only the boy's Father is missing.

Tenzin Gyatso goes to his Mother and lays his head in her

lap.

On an altar behind her, is a silver frame.  In the frame is

a picture of her husband.

DREAM SEQUENCE

EXT.  HILLTOP  DAWN

The body of the Dalai Lama's Father lays on a flat boulder.

Incense smoke curls into the air.  Prayer wheels are turned,

hand drums are played - the burial men stand off to one

side, their hatchets and knives in view.

Tenzin Gyatso is present.  He is the boy we know, but beside

him stands the four year-old boy, Lhamo, from the beginning

of the movie, and on the other side of him stands the boy

who will play the Dalai Lama in the next section of the film

-  a boy about fifteen or sixteen.

Tenzin Gyatso wraps his brown rosary around his left wrist.

The beads catch the brilliant afternoon light.  The sixteen

year-old Dalai Lama wears the same colored rosary around his

left wrist.

The cutters move in to the corpse, and as we hear them begin

the work of dismembering the body, the view pans up to

reveal the vultures circling overhead.

The last person leaving the hilltop with is the Dalai Lama

as an older man - not a character from this movie - but a

man of about fifty years, wearing glasses, wearing the same

robes, the same rosary.  Little Lhamo walks beside him.

END DREAM SEQUENCE

EXT.  SKY OVER TIBET  NIGHT

We hear a loud explosion, and then another and another and

another.  The sound begins to fade, but the blue-black,

peaceful, star-filled sky is shattered by bright bursts of

red and yellow and pink light.

It is a frightening sight.

EXT.  GARDEN, NORBULINKA  DAWN (1950)

The still waters of the fish pond begin to move.  The fish

swim in nervous circles;  the water laps over its stone

banks.

EXT.  DALAI LAMA'S RESIDENCE  DAWN

The whole building shakes.  Earthquake.

One monk runs down the stairs, another monk runs up, both

staring at a second floor window - a black-rimmed, glass

window.

A red cloth is pulled back and the window is opened.

The fifteen year-old Tenzin Gyatso looks out.

There is a terrible rumbling:  the rumbling that accompanies

an earthquake.  Finally, slowly, the sound, and the movement

subsides.

CLOSE on Tenzin Gyatso.  He lets the curtain fall.

INT.  GREAT HALL, THE POTALA  DAY

The General Assembly is in session.

Once again, the Yigstang and the Tsitang - four monks and

four laymen - sit facing one another.  But the room is

crowded today - this is a full session.  The Lord

chamberlain sits in.  Regent Taktra is there.

The senior Layman is on his knees.

In the back of the room we notice an open door.

INT.  HALLWAY  DAY

The Dalai Lama is listening.  He stands taller than the

first time we caught him eavesdropping.  He still is not a

part of this assembly, but he doesn't seem to care if he is

spotted.

INT.  GREAT HALL  DAY

The Layman continues.

A murmuring in the room.

INT.  HALLWAY  DAY

Shock on the face of His Holiness.

A voice shouts out:

INT.  GREAT HALL  DAY

The senior Monk is on his knees.

We see the Lord Chamberlain look toward the open door.

INT.  HALLWAY  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso looks at his advisor, and then, he closes the

door as the demand for his enthronement continues.

He walks down the hall, past the door leading to the

treasure room, alone now - an adult.  He is wearing those

European, lace-up shoes found in the treasure room so long

ago.  They are still too big for him.

EXT.  TRIBUTARY OF THE KYICHU RIVER, NORBULINKA  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso and Taktra Rinpoche walk side by side along

the waterway.

The boy looks out over the water.

Shepherds are leading their flock of sheep back toward town

on the far side of the tributary.

The two men stand side by side, one so young, one seeming so

old.

Pause.

Taktra Rinpoche bows and leaves him.

Tenzin Gyatso stands alone by the river.  The boy watches

the herders, and before the young shepherds disappear from

sight, the Dalai Lama turns and waves a hand behind him.

Two Bodyguards approach.  We can not hear, but as the Dalai

Lama walks away from us, down the river, one Bodyguard runs

up river, shouting:

INT.  ALTAR ROOM, NORBULINKA  DAY

In this black room, under the protective view of the statue

of Mahakala, a divine lottery is performed.

Tenzin Gyatso, the Regent Taktra Rinpoche, The Lord

chamberlain, the Kashag, the Yigstang and the Tsitang are

all present.

Tsampa-dough balls are made, three of them, each containing

a strip of parchment, bearing writing.  The dough is shaped

and weighed to see that each ball is equal.

Then, the three balls are placed in a silver bowl and the

bowl is spun.  The balls whirl, race, and finally one leaps

from the bowl.

This ball is taken to the Dalai Lama and he makes a mark on

it.  The ball is returned to the bowl, the procedure is

repeated, and a ball leaps again, almost immediately.  This

ball is presented and the Dalai Lama places his mark - next

to the mark he just made.  It is the same ball.

Tenzin Gyatso makes the twelfth mark on the same ball, and

the spinning begins again and then the thirteenth mark, and

then the ball is broken open and the strip of parchment

handed to the Regent.

EXT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  DAY

In a paved area, adjacent to the Yellow Wall which marks the

Dalai Lama's private grounds, the Opera Festival has begun.

This festival involves performances by Tibetan singers,

dancers and actors.  It looks to be a joyous occasion;

officials and their wives are dressed in their finest and

sit before beautifully laid picnics.  Children run here and

there, amidst the monks and nomads, the swashbuckling

Khambas from eastern Tibet (large people, with heavy braids

wrapped in red cloth on top of their heads).  There are

westerners, Nepalese and Sikimese.

Dancers - dressed in wild, colorful outfits - spin and leap

in time to the eerie, Tibetan music.

Atop a low building on the Yellow Wall, stands an elaborate

enclosure - draped in yellow silk.

The Dalai Lama sits inside it.

INT.  ENCLOSURE  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso is alone in this little room;  his arms rest

on a window ledge as he stares down at the festival taking

place below him.

EXT.  GARDENS  DAY

A bit more of the dancers and the people enjoying themselves

- all from the isolated point of view of the Dalai Lama.

We recognize a few characters:  Keustang Rinpoche.  His

Holiness's Mother with her younger children, the favorite

sweeper, Norbu Thundrup - dressed in a fine hat.

But a distant figure becomes apparent - he is a MESSENGER -

he is running, through the crowds, toward the Yellow Wall.

We stay on this desperate little figure as he draws closer.

INT.  ENCLOSURE  DAY

The boy is watching the Messenger.

EXT.  GARDENS  DAY

Back to that messenger as he works his way, ever closer to

the building which holds the Dalai Lama aloft, and then we

lose sight of him.

INT.  ENCLOSURE  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso leans back in his seat.  The yellow silk

curtain that his elbows have held open now fall closed and

we hear the heavy footsteps of the runner.

A knock.

The Regent is next door.

The boy climbs up on a chest and peeks through a tiny window

in the wall which separates this enclosure from the

Regent's.

Taktra Rinpoche reads a telegram.  His aging

face becomes quite grave.

The Regent leaves his side of the enclosure.

And then, there is a knock on the Dalai Lama's door.

It is the Regent.

EXT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  DAY

Back to a new group of performers - satirists, dressed as

high lamas and monks - even as the Nechung Oracle -

lampooning the rulers.  The crowd roars with laughter.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, NORBULINKA  DUSK

The Lord Chamberlain stands with the teenage Dalai Lama.

The room is a violent red in the sunset.

Tenzin Gyatso has cleared off his table, he is creating a

three-dimensional battlefield as his Lord Chamberlain

explains the situation.  Tenzin Gyatso uses papers, books,

little statues to bring a physical life to the words we

hear.

Little statues are placed facing what stands-in for the

river.

The Lord Chamberlain helps the boy to create this panorama.

Tenzin Gyatso lifts one statue, a small, golden Buddha, from

the display.  He cradles the Buddha in his hands.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, NORBULINKA  DAY

In beautiful sunlight, the painted cabinets of this room

glisten.  Rainbows of color play on the glass windows.  The

Dalai Lama sits at a low table, a pack of colored pencils,

or pastels, spread out around him.  He is teaching his

little brother to draw.

Together, little hand in bigger hand, they draw.

The Dalai Lama's Mother sits in a side chair, watching her

sons.

The little boy screams with laughter as the brothers draw a

yak.

EXT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  NIGHT

A movie is being shown - outside - on a makeshift screen.

It is "Henry the Fourth".

This is a treat for the sweepers, and gardeners and

servants.  children sit on the grass, mesmerized by this

incredible vision.

Tenzin Gyatso sits beside Heinrich Harrer.

The boy rubs his eyes wearily.  He appears distracted.

This line is spoken by an actor:

CLOSE on Tenzin Gyatso.

EXT.  ROAD BEHIND NORBULINKA  DAY

The Dalai Lama sits behind the wheel of a 1927 Austin. He

is a lousy driver - a boy who never commanded a wheeled

vehicle in all of his young life.

The Attendants sit in the back seat, holding on for dear

life.

We hear Tenzin Gyatso's wonderful, deep laugh.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOM, THE POTALA  NIGHT

Tenzin Gyatso is listening to Peking Radio.  Norbu Thundrup

is with him.

The boy tinkers with a clock as he listens - he is swiftly

becoming a master tinkerer.

Norbu is not shy in his report.

Tenzin Gyatso listens carefully to the man.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, THE POTALA  NIGHT

The Nechung Oracle spins in his trance.  Horns blow, cymbals

clash, the Oracle spurts sounds as lamas chant.

Finally, the Oracle approaches the boy, stands beside him,

like a lieutenant, a comrade, and says:

EXT.  TERRACE, THE POTALA  DAY

The Dalai Lama is reading - Tibet's appeal to the United

Nations.

The Lord Chamberlain and the four members of the Kashag

agree.

The boy continues:

In the background, we see monks on top of a wall, long horns

in front of them.  The blowing begins.

In a courtyard below, a debating session is in progress.  We

hear the shouts and the claps and watch the beautiful body

movements of the questioners.  Laughter fills the air.

Below that, the small capital of Tibet - the mysterious

city, the forbidden city of Lhasa - carries on, for now.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, THE POTALA  NIGHT

A monk - an abbot, in fact - sits beside Tenzin Gyatso.

It is Takster Rinpoche, the Dalai Lama's oldest brother.

Tenzin Gyatso plays with a box of those special sweets which

comes from his mother.

Takster Rinpoche begins to say something, but holds back.

The tension is great, the idea profound.

The brothers try to resist, but cannot.  They laugh like

crazy.

Silence.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, THE POTALA  DAY

In the adjacent room, the four members of the Kashag and the

Lord Chamberlain are waiting.

The Dalai Lama enters the room.

The boy goes to a small table where a document is unrolled

before him.

Tenzin Gyatso lifts the gold seal of power and affixes it to

the document.

He makes his mark on a small piece of parchment that is

attached to the document.

He has accepted the request to be enthroned.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  HOUR BEFORE DAWN

The Master of the Robe is helping Tenzin Gyatso to dress.

He ties a piece of green cloth around his waist and helps

him on with his maroon robes.

Norbu is there, watching.

INT.  HALLS OF THE POTALA  PRE-DAWN

Tenzin Gyatso walks down this dark hall.  The three

attendants are with him.

INT.  TEMPLE  DAWN

It is very dark green.  Butter lamps highlight certain faces

- members of the Kashag, noblemen, the tutors, an

Englishman, Nepalese, Bhutanese, Tibetan Muslims - but the

darkness conceals the great number of people present.

We hear the unmistakable Tibetan horns and cymbals. We hear

the chanting of monks.

The boy is handed a Golden Wheel, symbolizing the assumption

of temporal power.

At one moment, the Lamas all put on their yellow hats - a

color that peeks at us out of this dark room.  And we hear a

voice:

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, THE POTALA  DAY

The Dalai Lama addresses the Yistang, the Tsitang.

Two new faces are present.

He looks around these rooms.

The two men rise to their knees - LUKHANGWA, an incredible

looking layman, with a long white beard, and LOBSANG TASHI,

a monk.

The men bow to His Holiness.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, THE POTALA  DUSK

Tenzin Gyatso is packing.  We hear whispers in the adjacent

room as the Masters of the Robe and the Ritual organize

belongings into piles:  rolled thangkas, precious

manuscripts, maroon robes, a few english books, the radio.

The boy finds a few golden coins in a drawer and slips them

into his robes.

Tenzin Gyatso adds a package of tools, an atlas, the photo

of the Thirteenth Dalai Lama, the European shoes.  Then, he

goes to the terrace.

EXT.  TERRACE, THE POTALA  DUSK

The boy does not need a footstool anymore.

He glides the telescope across the countryside, catching

sight of the young herders leading their sheep back into

town.  He picks up a corner of the market place and the hub-

bub of the end of the day.  Wall posters show Tibetan

soldiers fleeing the Red Army.

And then, he aims his view-finder at the prison yard.

It is empty.  The prisoners are gone.

Tenzin Gyatso lets go of the eyepiece and turns to see

Norbu.

Together, the friends break-down the telescope.

Norbu folds up the tripod.

Norbu laughs.  The telescope is wrapped.

Norbu Thundrup ties a tight knot in a cord.

CLOSE on the gold seal of state as it is packed in a silk-

lined box.

EXT.  POTALA WALLS  NIGHT

Tenzin Gyatso - dressed in the warm, woolen chuba of a

layman - keeps his back against the wall.  Norbu is beside

him, carrying a flashlight.

A Bodyguard comes for them, and then, the Dalai Lama is

outside the Potala walls.

EXT.  POTALA NIGHT

The small group walks down a rocky path.  A grey horse is

waiting.

Tenzin Gyatso is helped onto the horse.  Norbu sees that he

is comfortable, and then, the flashlight goes out.  Norbu

fiddles with it.  Tenzin Gyatso takes the torch and tries

get it working again.  The Guard mounts his horse.  It is

time to go.  The horses snort, their breath consolidating

the cold night air.

Tenzin Gyatso cannot speak.  He tries, but he cannot.  Norbu

takes the flashlight.

The horse is turned and the Dalai Lama is led away to join

the soldiers at the foot of the path.

Tenzin Gyatso turns once, to see his friend.  The night is

dark.  Norbu has become invisible.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE  NIGHT

A cold and moonless night, lit only by the millions of stars

that shine over Tibet.  The caravan - made up of noblemen,

monks, family mambers and over two hundred soldiers (armed

with rifles, machine guns and field artillery) - journeys

out of Lhasa.

CLOSE on the Dalai Lama:  riding the shepherd's path.

EXT.  YELLOW WALL, NORBULINKA  NIGHT

Tenzin Gyatso rides his grey horse through a gate in the

yellow wall.

EXT.  DALAI LAMA'S RESIDENCE  NIGHT

The boy climbs the stairs to his summer residence.

INT.  ALTAR ROOM  NIGHT

The shrine of Mahakala.  Butter lamps cast their eerie glow

on the black walls as the boy presents a white, silk scarf,

a kata - a traditional token of leaving and return.

INT  ENTRANCE WAY, NORBULINKA  NIGHT

Tenzin Gyatso is about to leave the residence when he stops,

and looks at the small cabinet in the corner.  He goes to

it.

The door is still locked.

CLOSE on the boy.  Suddenly, he knows.

He reaches a hand behind the cabinet.  The hand comes back

to him with a key.

Tenzin Gyatso opens the cabinet doors.  Several drawers are

revealed.

The boy opens one.  Empty.  Another.  Empty.

A Bodyguard says, from the stairs:

Another drawer.  Empty.  And then, success.

In a small drawer, there is something, wrapped in red

velvet.

The boy opens it, with shaking hands.  Teeth.  False teeth.

Tenzin Gyatso releases a sharp laugh, he has been holding

his breath.   He wraps up the teeth and puts them back, but

behind the teeth is something more.

A rolled, white silk scarf, a kata.

Tenzin Gyatso takes the scarf.  He unrolls it.  Something

falls on the floor.

A tiny, lead soldier.

Tenzin Gyatso lifts the soldier.  It is a Ghurka.  An Indian

soldier.

The boy places the scarf around his own shoulders.

CLOSE on the golden statue of Mahakala, wearing his white

scarf.

We hear the roar of the Kyichu river.

EXT.  KYICHU RIVER  NIGHT

Coracles - skin boats - are loaded with bundles and people

and pushed off the banks and into the water.

Horses, donkeys and yaks must swim across.

Tenzin Gyatso is helped into a boat.  The rowers, wrapped in

heavy wool and sheepskin, their arms bare, push off.

The boy is sprayed with water.  He is bumped about.  He is

freezing cold.  He floats away from Lhasa.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE  DAY

The caravan journeys through a narrow mountain pass.

The flags of Tibet and of the Dalai Lama are carried by

mounted soldiers.

Suddenly, monks come running from the surrounding mountain

trails, shrieking, wailing.

They run to lamas, grabbing at their robes, clutching,

crying out:

One monk clutches for an instant at the layman's wrapping on

Tenzin Gyatso - but he does not recognize him as the Dalai

Lama

The boy tenderly embraces this distraught figure, but the

monk drops away from him and clings to the shy, sweet

presence of Ling Rinpoche.

The Dalai Lama is quickly and quietly surrounded by soldiers

- discreetly, so as not to give away his identity.

Ling Rinpoche speaks to a group.

The pain on these monks's faces, in their voices, is tragic.

Tenzin Gyatso is overwhelmed.

He sees before him a line of prostrate monks - but they are

not bowing to him, they are laying down in the pass, trying

to block the way of the caravan.

Ling Rinpoche goes to these men and gently helps them to

their feet.

INT.  TENT  NIGHT

The Dalai Lama lies awake in his camp bed.  He cannot sleep.

He rises and walks to the tent flap.  He opens it.

EXT.  TENT  NIGHT

A Bodyguard is posted.  He turns to the Dalai Lama.

We recognize him.  He is the Bodyguard from that first

caravan trip so long ago:  a huge monk with a big stick -

the guard who stood outside the old monks's tent.  The man

with the deformed face.

The boy is not frightened this time.

There is silence as the two men look out at the cold night.

The boy steps back inside.

INT.  TENT  NIGHT

We hear the approach of a horse, and then the Bodyguard

enters the tent.

The Bodyguard hands the boy a parcel.  Tenzin Gyatso unwraps

it.  His flashlight.  It works.

A pause, and then Tenzin Gyatso sits in front of the thangka

of Penden Lhamo.

He reads from the scripture pages laid out on the low table.

He reads by flashlight.

INT.  COUNTRYSIDE  DAY

The Dalai Lama walks along a beaten, caravan path.  He is

still in disguise, and obviously, enjoying it.

An OLD MUSLIM MAN is beside him - an incredible looking

creature.

The Dalai Lama laughs.

The boy laughs again.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - LATER  DAY

Still walking, with two companions.  A Tibetan peasant

WOMAN, and his own mother.

A laugh from her.

Tenzin Gyatso laughs.

The Attendants walk behind the boy, eavesdropping.  Tenzin

Gyatso's Mother plays along.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE, STILL LATER  DAY

The Dalai Lama walks beside two boys: his older brother,

Lobsang, and a YOUNG NOBLE BOY.

They walk.

EXT.  EST. SHOT,  DUNGKHAR MONASTERY - ON A HILL,

OVERLOOKING DROMO VALLEY  DAY

It is raining as we see the Dalai Lama on horseback,

climbing the dirt path leading to this beautiful, small

monastery.  The caravan has arrived at its destination.

We hear the chanting of monks.

INT.  THE DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, DUNGKAAR MONASTERY

DAY

A home has been made:   books on the shelf, screwdrivers all

in a row, European shoes under the bed.  An old Bush radio

receiver, running off a six-volt battery, sits on the floor.

The telescope stands on the terrace.

Two members of the Kashag can be seen in the adjacent room.

The rooms are stark white.

INT.  ADJACENT ROOM  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso, dressed informally, looking peaceful, sits

with his advisors on the floor.  The Lord Chamberlain is

with them.

Silence.

Silence.

The boy gets up.  The prostrations begin.

Tenzin Gyatso waves a hand. The men get up, awkwardly.

The Dalai Lama leaves the room.

One man still goes down to his knees.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  DUSK

Ling Rinpoche and Tenzin Gyatso sit together.

The lead soldier of the Indian Ghurka sits on the low table,

beside Buddha and the tantric instruments.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso walks alone in the mountains.  We see his

Bodyguards in the distance.  He comes to a chorten (a stupa

- a small, pagoda-like chapel).  He steps inside.

INT.  CHORTEN  DAY

This is where the Tibetan peasants come to make their

offerings to Buddha.  It is a small space, whitewashed,

quiet.  A painting of Buddha adorns one wall and flowers,

butter lamps, nuts and dried fruit sit before it.

The boy looks closer.

There is a photograph pinned to the wall.

It is a picture of him, as a young boy.  The Incarnate.  The

Precious One.

EXT.  CHORTEN  DAY

The Dalai Lama ties his piece of colored cloth, his mantra,

to this public prayer flag.  The beautiful valley lies at

his feet, the bodyguards keep a polite distance.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  NIGHT

The boy is tinkering, as he listens to the radio.

It is Peking Radio he is picking up.

We hear a crackly voice begin a very important announcement.

Tenzin Gyatso drops his work.  He turns to face the

offending radio.

The boy moves closer to the radio, he appears physically

ill.

Tenzin Gyatso is stunned.  Frozen.

INT.  PARLOR, DUNGKHAR MONASTERY  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso, the two members of the Kashag and the Lord

Chamberlain stand around a clicking telegraph machine.  A

long message curls along the floor.

A Kashag Member is reading along as the message comes in.

EXT.  TERRACE, MONASTERY  DAY

View through the telescope:  the Chinese are coming.

A group of officials are headed in the direction of the

monastery.  Within the group of Tibetan noblemen - dressed

in their traditional red and gold silk robes - are three

men, wearing drab, grey suits.

The Chinese men closer and we see that one of them is

smoking a cigarette.

CLOSE on Tenzin Gyatso's face.

INT.  PARLOR, MONASTERY  DAY

The Chinese Delegation, led by GENERAL CHIANG CHIN-WU,

stands waiting in a dimly-lit, yellow room.

A table holds tea and refreshments.

The Dalai Lama and his cabinet members are in the room.

Chairs are provided.

The General does.  So does the Dalai Lama. The other two

Chinese remain standing.

Tenzin Gyatso is quiet, reserved.  Awkward.

A document is produced.  We notice that the General is

wearing a gold rolex watch.  The Dalai Lama notices, too.

A member of the Kashag takes the document.

CLOSE on the Dalai Lama.

He makes no response.

Tenzin Gyatso remains silent.

No response.

The General rises as the boy remains seated.  With a moment

of awkward silence, the Chinese depart.

It is handed to him.  He opens to the last page and looks at

the impression made by the state seal.

He closes the document and hands it back to the official.

EXT.  TERRACE  DAY

The boy watches the delegation leave the hilltop station.

Taktra Rinpoche and the Lord Chamberlain are with him.

EXT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  DAY

Again, an informal meeting is in session.

A pause.

The boy snaps his fingers.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  NIGHT

Tenzin Gyatso is asleep.  We have not seen him this still,

this peaceful, in a long time.  He sleeps in the "Buddha~

pose" - on his right side9 his head resting in his right

hand.  The wall behind him is white.

We begin to hear the unique Tibetan music.

DREAM SEQUENCE

Tenzin Gyatso rides a grey mule across the empty, mysterious

landscape of Tibet.

The boy is back in his own home in Amdo province.

But, he is not the baby he was when he left there, he is

sixteen.  His family is together, but they are all the sizes

and ages they were at the beginning of the story.  Tenzin

Gyatso is very happy, sitting on the raised platform in the

kitchen, playing a game with pebbles.

Taktra Rinpoche - the aged Taktra - enters and sits down

beside him.

The boy does not speak, just looks, kindly, at the man.

The boy shakes his head "no".

Suddenly, another man speaks;

Tenzin Gyatso turns his head to see his best friend.

And now, the Dalai Lama's Father is seen in a corner of the

kitchen.

The boy turns to the sweeper once more, holds out his hand,

and mouths:

Reverse on Norbu, fading away.

DREAM SEQUENCE ENDS

Tenzin Gyatso eyes burst open.  He is awake.  He is older.

Twenty.  But, there is something ageless about him, now.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S ROOM, THE POTALA  PRE-DAWN

The boy begins this day.

He is in his old room at the Potala, in Lhasa.  The green

mural of the Fifth Dalai Lama is behind him.  He has risen.

from the red-curtained bed.

The Masters of the Kitchen and the Robe arrive and begin

their preparations for the day.

A NEW SWEEPER works in the adjacent room.

The sun rises.

EXT.  THE POTALA  DAY

Like a painting, the beautiful monastery fills the screen

with its white walls and red roof.

Shouting is heard.

CLOSE on the red, bulging face of General Chiang.

INT.  GREAT HALL, THE POTALA  DAY

Behind the General hang fantastic thangkas of the Fifth

Dalai Lama.

The Dalai Lama is shaken by this violent behavior.

He adjusts his new eye glasses.

The General sits.

A slight smile.

The men glare at one another.

The General leaps to his feet and is about to strike the

Prime Minister.

The Dalai Lama runs between then.  He holds the General

back.

The General backs away and brings himself under control.

Tenzin Gyatso stands between these furious men.  He raises a

hand, silently requesting peace.

EXT.  TERRACE  DAY

We hear the sound of martial drums and trumpets and tubas.

The Dalai Lama is at his telescope.

Three thousand PLA soldiers march along the shepherds's

trail.  They march behind huge, red banners of Mao Tse-tung

and Chu-te.

This time, the soldiers do look like monsters.  Their faces

are grey - coated with Tibetan dust.  Their peaked hats look

vaguely like horns, their tattered, khaki uniforms like

rough hide.

Monks line the trail, whipping at the soldiers with their

long, maroon robes.  Women and children spit at the Chinese,

clap at them, hoping to chase this evil away.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, THE POTALA  DAY

The Prime Ministers, Lukhangwa and Lobsang Tashi, submit

their resignations to His Holiness.

The boy takes the roll of parchment from them.

We hear the sounds of those Chinese tubas and trumpets.

We hear trucks.

The boy affixes his small piece of parchment to the document

and makes a mark on it.

EXT.  KYICHU RIVER  DAY

The Dalai Lama, with much pomp and ceremony, walks down a

white carpet and steps into a coracle.

The entourage includes:  the Lord Chamberlain, the Kashag,

His Holiness's Mother and youngest Brother, tutors and

attendants.

A hundred monks stand, chanting, on the far bank.

EXT.  PLAINS OF TIBET  DAY

The Fourteenth Dalai Lama rides in a Chinese jeep.  Dust

surrounds him.  A yellow silk umbrella shades him.

We see that a road is under construction - a road into

Lhasa. The first road in Tibet.  The Dalai Llama is travelling

in the opposite direction.  He is leaving his country,

traveling on rugged, flattened earth.

EXT.  BARREN COUNTRYSIDE  DAY

The way is tougher here - the Dalai Lama is on mule back.

EXT.  CHINESE BORDER TOWN, SHINGANG  DAY

This is a different land.  There are rice paddies and water

buffalo.  The altitude and barrenness of Tibet have been

replaced by greener pastures, jagged mountaintops and

Chinese natives.

INT.  AIRPLANE  NIGHT

Tenzin Gyatso gets his ride in an airplane - an antique. It

is bumpy and noisy.  He sits on an un-upholstered, steel

frame.

INT.  TRAIN  DAY

The Dalai Lama travels by train.

INT.  TRAIN STATION  DAY

The train pulls into the station.

There are hundreds of people awaiting the arrival of the

Dalai Lama - hundreds of "China pictorial", red-cheeked,

Chinese communists;  men, women and children, waving little

red flags.

Tenzin Gyatso steps off the train and there is a roar of

approval.   Song breaks out - the People's Republic National

Anthem.

The young man is overwhelmed.

We begin to sense that something is wrong, something is

artificial.  The people's presence is demanded here today.

This is a forced display of regard.

INT.  GREAT HALL OF THE PEOPLE  DAY

The Dalai Lama, and his retinue sit in this Great Hall,

decorated with a portrait of Chairman Mao.

The Great Helmsman himself is speaking.

Mao Tse Tung's presence is charismatic.  His delivery is

powerful - simple, yet firm.  He is spellbinding.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S ROOM, CHINESE GUEST HOUSE  NIGHT

Tenzin Gyatso snoops around this room.  He opens drawers,

cabinets, just as a child would.  He finds odd little pieces

of ceramics, pens, paper.

He moves to the bathroom, runs a bath.  Hot water.

Electricity.  This is the modern world.

INT.  MAO'S OFFICE  DAY

The Dalai Lama sits beside Chairman Mao as a horde of

photographers flash bulbs in their faces.  Mao offers His

Holiness a plate of Chinese delicacies.

We notice that Mao's clothes are shabby and old. (His suit

is always a shade lighter than everyone else's grey-drab).

His cuffs are frayed, his collar is worn.  But, his shoes,

are beautifully polished.

He has exquisite, delicate hands and his skin is shinny.

Later, Chairman Mao and the Dalai Lama sit across from one

another.

Tenzin Gyatso takes notes as Mao speaks.

Tenzin Gyatso quietly sips his tea.

Mao speaks and moves very slowly.  He pants and wheezes.  He

appears to be sick.  Tenzin Gyatso takes notes.

Tenzin Gyatso writes in his notebook.

The Dalai Lama accepts.

EXT.  GARDEN, GUEST HOUSE  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso does physical exercise with a few Chinese

Bodyguards.

EXT.  GARDEN, GUEST HOUSE  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso studies with Ling Rinpoche.

The Lord Chamberlain sits with them.

Pause.

The Lord Chamberlain simply looks at the young man.  He has

nothing to say.

INT.  MAO'S OFFICE  NIGHT

There is a knock and Tenzin Gyatso is led into the room.

Mao is at his desk, working late, smoking heavily.

Tenzin Gyatso sits. He takes out his book and pen, ready to

take notes.

Tenzin Gyatso records Mao's words.

The boy cannot look up.  He is in shock.  We see the last

words he writes:

Tenzin Gyatso slowly gets to his feet.  We must see on his

face that he realizes it has all been lies.  All the kind

words and promises, it must all be lies.

He is unable to raise his face to Mao's.  All he sees before

him are those shinny shoes, those exquisitely shaped,

glistening hands.

EXT.  MAO'S OFFICE  NIGHT

Outside this building, a black car is waiting.  It is

bitterly cold.

Mao - wearing no hat, no coat, and coughing - opens the door

for the boy.

The Dalai Lama shakes the man's hand.

Tenzin Gyatso gets into the car and Mao slams the door.

INT.  CAR  NIGHT

As the car drives away, Tenzin Gyatso turns to see the

Chairman, still standing in the cold, still waving goodbye.

Then, Tenzin Gyatso looks straight ahead and says:

The view pulls back. The Lord Chamberlain sits beside the

young man.

EXT.  TENZIN GYATSO'S HOUSE IN AMDO  DAY

The Dalai Lama and members of his retinue stand in front of

his old house in the village of Taktser, Amdo Province.

The young man smiles as he enters the courtyard.  He pauses

to look at the prayer flag, flapping in the breeze.

He opens the front door.

INT.  HOUSE  DAY

A family of relatives inhabits the house.  They bow to His

Holiness as the young man makes his way to the kitchen.

INT.  KITCHEN  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso steps into the kitchen - he might have to bend

his head under the low ceiling.  He laughs his wonderful

laugh.

Immediately, a woman approaches with a cup of tea.

But the hand of a Chinese official reaches out, takes the

tea and returns it to her.  It is not permitted.

The woman looks confused.  Tenzin Gyatso is humiliated.

EXT.  HOUSE  DAY

A group has gathered outside the house.

Tenzin Gyatso goes toward them as they prostrate.  When they

have finished, he reaches out his hands to take theirs.

He says to one old woman:

The OLD WOMAN says, with tears in her eyes:

It is a horrifying announcement.

The Dalai Lama touches her head.  She weeps and clutches his

hands.

The young man looks up, over her head, to Kyeri, the

protectress mountain of this small village.

We hear loudspeakers, blaring, in the background -

trumpeting propaganda about Chairman Mao and the People's

Liberation Army.

Tibetan horns blow.  It sounds like a warning.

CLOSE on a newspaper.  It is a Chinese newspaper and the

picture on the front page shows a row of severed, Tibetan

heads.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso puts the paper down.  He removes his glasses

and turns to his advisor - the grand Lord Chamberlain.

The Dalai Lama rubs his face with his hands.

The men are silent.  We hear the constant sound of trucks

and cars.

The Lord Chamberlain is notably pausing.

Again, silence.

EXT.  TERRACE  DAY

His Holiness walks to the terrace.  He aims the telescope.

Below him he sees a new Lhasa - a Lhasa full of trucks and

Chinese soldiers.  A traffic island stands in the center of

an intersection.  The town walls are white-washed.  The

political posters are gone.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, THE NORBULINKA DAY

A small group sits waiting on red velvet chairs: the Dalai

Lama, the Lord Chamberlain and the Kashag.

General Chiang enters the room. He finds a chair and pours

himself a cup of tea.  We cannot help but notice - he is

armed.

Silence.

The General sips.

The Dalai Lama answers.

The General looks up, surprised.  It took a great deal of

courage for the young man to answer back, so determinedly.

The General sputters:

Now, the boy finds his voice.

The General starts to speak but Tenzin Gyatso keeps talking.

The General leaves the room.

INT.  PRAYER ROOM, NORBULINKA  NIGHT

The Nechung Oracle is in full swing.  It is an especially

vivid and violent spin he is in.  The headdress whips this

way and that, and finally he says:

It is a strange and confusing prophecy.

EXT./ INT.  NORBULINKA  DAY

A few random views of the Norbulinka:

The wandering deer and peacocks.  The fish pond and its

inhabitants.

Over these pictures we hear words:

The projection room.  The full sheep pen.  The parents's

home.

The Yellow Wall.  The Dalai Lama's red room.

And now, we hear the voices of a great many people,

reciting:

EXT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  DAY

In the midst of war, there is beauty.

The Dalai Lama performs the Kalachakra ceremony.

It is a beautiful, ornate, colorful ceremony.  A prayer for

world peace.

Tenzin Gyatso sits on a platform of cushions, above the

heads of the abbots and lamas and tutors, above the

heads of the Tibetan noblemen, and nomads and Khambas and

pesants from all corners of the land who attend the

ceremony.

The Dalai Lama proceeds with the ceremony.  He handles and

blesses sacred objects, he lifts his bell and dorge.

Rice is passed among the people.  Rice is thrown.

A Tibetan chant is sung.

Beside His Holiness is a large, yellow silk pagoda.

The view moves inside the pagoda as the chanting continues.

INT.  PAGODA  DAY

We see a mandala - a beautiful, intricate, sand-painting.

The home of Kalachakra.

The whole screen becomes this mandala as the chanting an

cymbals and deep resonating sounds of the song continue and

then, a hand comes into the mandala and begins to sweep it

up.

Pull back to see that the hand belongs to Tenzin Gyatso.

Tenzin Gyatso collects the ground particles of Tibetan

quartz and rock.  He destroys the painstakingly lovely sand

painting.

The chanting becomes louder and louder and it mixes with the

sound of the river.

EXT.  KYICHU RIVER  DUSK

Tenzin Gyatso pours the sand into the river.

We watch the river take color and the mandala floats away.

This view is overlapped by one of extreme horror.

DREAM SEQUENCE

The lovely Norbulinka garden, the park where opera pageants

and Kalachakra ceremonies take place, is now, a killing

field.

Hundreds of dead, slaughtered monks, lie on the blood-

drenched ground, under the peach and pear trees.  Chinese

soldiers move amongst the monks, turning over the dead

bodies, searching those silent faces.  The Solder we see is

carrying a photo of His Holiness.  They are searching for

the Dalai Lama.

It is a nightmare.

We hear crying.

DREAM SEQUENCE ENDS.

Tenzin Gyatso wakes up.  Shaking, crying, he is alone, in

the dark.  He can barely catch his breath.

The screen goes black.

CLOSE on an invitation:

EXT.  THE POTALA  DAWN

A last view of the great monastery.

We hear the sound of thousands of Tibetan women shouting;

The young man looks around at the peaceful premises.  People

we know - uembers of the Kashag, attendants, tutors, the

Dalai Lama's Mother, sweepers - appear in the garden, one by

one, all listening to the sounds of a uob gathering outside

the walls of the Norbulinka.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS, NORBULINKA  DAY

A meeting is in progress.

INT.  PARENTS'S HOME, NORBULINKA  DAY

The Dalai Lama enters his Mother's home.

It is very guiet here.  The young man looks at the family

photographs on the blue walls, the needlework on the table,

the seven copper bowls in front of the statue of Buddha.

The boy fills the seven bowls with water.  His Mother lights

the butter lamps.

He says, softly:

The young man fills the last bowl with water.

EXT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  DUSK

The Lord Chamberlain approaches the Dalai Lama as he leaves

his Mother's house.

The Lord Chamberlain hurries away.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  DUSK

A last meeting in session.

The Kashag is present, as are fifty leaders of the

opposition - rough, tired men.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  NIGHT

The Dalai Lama consults the Nechung Oracle.  Alone.

The Oracle whispers:

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  NIGHT

It is late at night.  The boy is alone.  He sits in front of

his altar - meditating.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  NIGHT

The Nechung Oracle is brought in.  The monk quiets himself

and readies himself for the trance.

The Dalai Lama waits.  Again, alone.

Slowly, the trance comes on, the heavy headdress is placed

on the monk's head, the attendants leave the room and then,

the Oracle speaks.

EXT.  DALAI LAMA'S RESIDENCE  DAY

The Lord Chamberlain hurries up the stairs.

Tenzin Gyatso steps forward, out of the shadows.

The Dalai Lama walks down the outdoor stairs.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  DAY

The young man is studying with Ling Rinpoche. Books of

scripture are stacked in front of him.

Suddenly, there is a tremendous, loud explosion, and then,

another.

Tenzin Gyatso gets up and runs to the window he looked out

of the day of the earthquake.

EXT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  DAY

There is shouting and chaos.  The Chinese have begun

shelling the Norbulinka.  The north wall and the grounds

directly in front of it are on fire.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S ROOM  DAY

This time the Oracle is in the room first.  He is surrounded

by his attendants and the members of the Kashag, the Lord

Chamberlain, Ling Rinpoche and various tutors and lamas.

The tension is thick.  Finally, the Dalai Lama enters.

Tenzin Gyatso sits.  He waits.  The trance begins, the

headdress is set upon the medium's head and the Oracle

begins to dance, and then, he begins to shout:

The Oracle staggers forward, snatches up some paper and a

pen and begins to draw a map, a route, out of Lhasa.  He

keeps repeating:

CLOSE on the map - drawn with a shaking, sweating hand.

We see mountains, and a pass, and the names of towns along

the way.

Tenzin Gyatso rises and goes to the Oracle.  He looks down

at the map.  The Oracle hands the Dalai Lama the map and

faints as his frightened attendants rush to loosen the strap

of the headdress before the poor man chokes.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  DUSK

The boy sits at the table, writing.  We can hear the crowd,

shouting, outside the Norbulinka walls.  We see just a few

words of the letter:

Attendants pack, quietly and quickly.

INT.  ALTAR ROOM  NIGHT

The chapel of Mahakala.

We are reminded of secret, sacred moments, from long ago.

Tenzin Gyatso opens the heavy, creaking door.  The Dalai

Lama is in disguise.  He is wearing the clothes of a Khamba

guerrilla - dark, woolen chuba and tall black boots.

Monks sit on the floor, chanting.  One monk stands by a

large urn, ladling out butter for the lamps.

Tenzin Gyatso goes to the front of the room.

A monk begins to play the cymbals. Another puts the

Tibetan horn to his lips and blows a long, mournful note.

The Dalai Lama lays a white silk scarf - a kata - over the

shoulders of this imposing statue.

Then, he sits for a moment.

In the weak light, in the black room, Tenzin Gyatso is lost

among the other praying monks.

EXT.  HALLWAY OF RESIDENCE  NIGHT

The Dalai Lama walks down the hall.  He says to a sweeper:

and then he bow bends down, to pat a dog.

INT.  DALAI LAMA'S PRIVATE ROOMS  NIGHT

Tenzin Gyatso rolls the thangka of Penden Lhamo and slides

it into its ancient container.

The young man places the scroll over one shoulder.

INT.  ENTRANCE OF RESIDENCE, NORBULINKA  NIGHT

CLOSE on the little cabinet in the corner of the entrance

hall.

Tenzin Gyatso's hands open the doors.

The young man pulls open the drawer which contains the false

teeth.

Tenzin Gyatso pulls a rolled kata from his coat.  He tucks

the lead soldier of an Indian Ghurka into the center of the

scarf.  He places the bundle in the drawer.

Then, he adds something.  A sweet.  The kind his Mother

makes.

He closes the drawer, and locks it.

He hides the key, again, behind the small, unobtrusive

cabinet.

EXT.  RESIDENCE, STAIRS  NIGHT

With a soldier on either side of him, the Dalai Lama

descends the staircase.

The Soldiers start to lead him away, but he pauses.

The young man leaves them.

EXT.  RESIDENCE  NIGHT

He walks to the far side of this white building.

The boy returns to the front steps.

The soldiers wait.

Tenzin Gyatso places the scroll over one shoulder.  A

soldier lays a rifle over the other one.

EXT.  GARDENS, NORBULINKA  NIGHT

The three men walk quietly through the empty gardens.  We

hear the sounds of the crowd grow louder.

EXT.  WALL  NIGHT

The soldiers pause, look to His Holiness.  Tenzin Gyatso

removes his glasses, puts them in his bag, then nods - and

the soldiers open the gate.

Of course, we see only a fraction of the crowd - angry men

and women.

A man steps beside His Holiness.

Tenzin Gyatso looks up - face to face.

It is the Khamba bodyguard, the monk who guarded him so many

times.  The man with the horrible face.

The Dalai Lama is between the soldiers, shouldering his own

gun.  The Bodyguard falls in behind.

The little group makes its way through the crowd.

EXT.  TRIBUTARY OF ThE KYICHU RIVER  NIGHT

In the same place where the little Tenzin Gyatso tentatively

tested one rock, the escape party crosses on the slippery,

stepping stones.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE  NIGHT

The small party makes its way across a bit of countryside.

People are camped here - Khambas, farmers, nomads.  The

Dalai Lama crosses to safety - unnoticed.

EXT.  KYICHU RIVER  NIGHT

Coracles await.

The Dalai Lama climbs in, the Lord Chmaberlian sits beside

him.  The soldiers push off. The Khamba Bodyguard stands on

the bank, alone.

Every splash of the oars sounds like it could wake the dead.

Tenzin Gyatso looks back.  He puts on his glasses.

He sees camp fires and the glow of torches.  He hears echoed

voices.

He looks up.  He sees the stars and the moon and that

incomparable Tibetan sky.

He looks forward.

He sees mountains.

He is handed a steaming cup of tea.

And then, a cloud passes over the moon.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE  NIGHT

On horse back, the party makes its way up a mountain pass.

There are more members now - Tenzin Gyatso has joined those

who left ahead of him - members of the Kashag, tutors, his

Mother, his Brother.

It is tough going.  The ground seems like quick sand with

every step a struggle.  When the horses have disappeared

from sight, a sand storm arises, wiping away their tracks.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE  NIGHT

The party passes above an encampment of Chinese soldiers.

They are not seen.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE  DAY

The party travels through the emptiness.

EXT.  MOUNTAIN PASS  DUSK

His Holiness walks beside his horse.

He joins other members of the group standing on a ridge.

Tenzin Gyatso picks up a rock and throws it over the side.

And now, the others do the same.  The Lord Chamberlain says:

EXT.  OUTSKIRTS OF TIBET  DAY

The Dalai Lama sits before a low table set up on this

desolate border.

A document is before him.

With a slap of the State Seal of Tibet, this is done.

The Lord Chamberlain removes this document and replaces it

with another.

The seal comes down hard once more.  It is done.

EXT.  BORDER  DAY

A sick and tired Tenzin Gyatso makes the last leg of his

trip on the back of a black yak.

Before him, through the light rain, we see a small bamboo

arch erected in the middle of nowhere.  Six Indian GHURKAS,

wearing floppy, jungle hats and heavy, British boots, stand

at attention.

The Dalai Lama, on his black yak, passes under this babboo

gateway as the Indian Soldiers raise their guns in salute.

An Indian soldier goes to the yak and helps the sick man

from his mount.

Tenzin Gyatso stands, barely able to hold himself on his

feet.  His hand rests on the yak's back.

The Indian soldier steps closer and, knowing he is breaking

protocol, he whispers:

The young man smiles at the Soldier - a man who looks like

the lead soldier come alive.

Pause.

INT.  A ROOM IN INDIA, FOOT OF THE HIMALAYAS  DAY

Tenzin Gyatso unpacks.  He is dressed in maroon robes, his

arms bare.

He places some books on a table next to his tinkering

equipment.  He lifts a heavy parcel.

EXT.  TERRACE  DAY

CLOSE on the young man's beautiful hands as he sets up his

telescope.

The tripod is erect.  The body is attached. The eyepiece is

adjusted.

And then, this boy, this man, this simple monk, aims, to

takes a look, at a bigger world.

On a black screen, a card reads:

