He grabs the reins and starts again toward the buildings,

trips in a ditch, almost falls flat. Red faced, he rights

himself. The chopping behind him remains constant.

Sergeyenko watches him from the porch.

CLOSE on the CABLE MACHINE.    A message coming through.

Sofya walks into the house with another stack of mail.

Sasha comes piling down the stairs.

Without waiting for the answer, Sasha races past her and

out the door

Valentin and Tolstoy walk together in the woods. .

Valentin sneezes.

Tolstoy laughs out loud.

Masha smiles.

A knock at the door startles them.

Valentin is suddenly in a panic.

Sergeyenko hovers outside the bedroom door.

Valentin blanches.

They look at each other.

He takes a step toward her, then stops.

Sofya laughs.

She smiles at him.

A pause, then a huge laugh comes up from the very center of

him. He twists his neck, thrusts his head upward, crows

like a rooster.

He virtually runs to her, embraces her, kisses her. She is

a giddy girl in his arms. He breaks the embrace and begins

strutting around the room.

He takes her in his arms, again, begins to kiss her neck.

He stops kissing her, looks her in the eye. Then, another

loud crow. Laughing, they fall into each other again.

And we hear their laughter over the dark old house.

He rises, spits on the ground, goes into the house. Sofya

follows.

Catching him up.

Tolstoy, taken aback, says nothing.

She stares at him in silence.

He walks up the stairs. She follows.

Chertkov, Sasha, Dushan, Valentin and Tolstoy sit in a

little clump by his desk. Tolstoy his head in his hands,

looks at the floor.

Valentin records the conversation in his diary.

Sofya, still in her dressing gown, climbs out her bedroom

window onto a narrow ledge that runs along the second

floor.

Sofya stand on the window ledge high above the ground.   She

begins to move toward the library balcony.

Tolstoy looks at Valentin, who looks at the floor.

Sasha suddenly steams past him.

Sofya has reached the bathhouse. Peasant women watch her as

they do their wash. She glances back her pursuers, races

on.

Tiring now, she goes to her knees. She crawls along the

jetty toward the water. At the edge of the jetty, she

falls on her back then turns over, most ungracefully, and

rolls off sideways into the pond.

HIGH ANGLE. Sofya sinks into the black water. The sound of

her rescuers fades away and is replaced by Tolstoy's voice,

reading the farewell note she still clutches in her hand.

SLOW MOTION She floats, strangely relaxed, beneath the

water.

The silence is suddenly ripped apart by the rescuers. Sasha

and Valentin jumping into the pond. Sasha, barely able to

swim herself, thrashes in the water.

He offers his arm, using it to push her to safety.

Sasha walks into dining room. Valentin pours them tea.

They smile at each other.

Ivan comes down the stairs. He stops in the doorway.

Ivan steps forward and hands her the note to inspect. Sasha

can't help but laugh.

She pockets the note. Ivan continues to stand there. Sasha

looks at him.

Sasha opens it, reads. She looks up, flushed with

excitement.

Sasha runs out of the room.

Sasha, on horse back, rides up and by the camera and away

down the alley of trees that lead away from the house.

Sitting at his desk, Valentin looks up to see Sofya

standing in the doorway. She looks exhausted.

She walks to his desk.

across the room to her husband's desk.

Tolstoy has overheard them.

Dushan appears with several newspapers.   As he hands them

the papers, he reads the HEADLINES.

Tolstoy looks up from the papers, smiles.

Sofya sits surrounded by the papers. Andrey appears.

The huge iron wheels grind on.

Tolstoy sleeps. People still crowd around him.

Tolstoy stirs.

He reaches out to touch Tolstoy's forehead. He goes pale.

The old man lifts his shirt, takes the thermometer under

his arm. Dushan reaches for his wrist. Valentin and Sasha

look at each other, wait for the vital signs. He takes the

thermometer from Tolstoy, reads it.

He's clearly shaken.

He drifts off again, Dushan stares at the thermometer. His

eyes fill with tears.

The train pulls into a small, dusty station, ASTAPOVO.

Valentin and Dushan support, help him off the train.   Sasha

looks at the sad, empty platform.

Dushan and Tolstoy sit on a bench on the platform. Sasha

and Valentin appear.

They help Tolstoy up. A little bearded man, the station

master, waits to escort them.

Valentin approaches the operator.

A message comes over the cable machine.

Sofya paces. Andrey lolls on the couch reading the paper.

Press and various hangers on have begun to arrive at

Astapovo. Outside the station master's house, Dushan gives

an update, temperature, pulse.

Valentin emerges from the telegraph office, telegrams and

cables in his hands. A long passenger train pulls in from

the north. There's general commotion at the new arrival.

"The Countess." "Is it the Countess?"... More press, a

cinematographer lugging his gear and CHERTKOV. He spots

Valentin. There is no greeting, no embrace.

As they make their way across the tracks, Chertkov can

barely contain his glee.

Chertkov doesn't hear, He's basking in his victory.

Valentin leads Chertkov through the door. Chertkov stops

short, whispers

Now, Tolstoy sees him, wakes up, smiles.

The men embrace. Tears roll down the both men's cheeks.

Tolstoy continues to hiccup throughout.

Chertkov doesn't respond.

Everyone is asleep. Valentin keeps a vigil at Tolstoy's

bedside. His rest is fitful, his breathing ragged. Valentin

stands and walks out.

Valentin approaches the little window.

The man nods, readies his pencil.

The man looks to him for an address.

The media circus is in town. There are snack bars and huts,

an army camp with typewriters instead of guns. Several news

cameras are set up near the stationmaster's house. Tents

have been erected as make shift shelters and offices.

Reporters struggle to get into the telegraph office. Word

goes around something big is happening.

At the platform, we see the highly polished private train

pull in. The Countess has arrived.

SOFYA APPEARS in her handsome traveling clothes. An

unctuous little orthodox priest follows her out of the

train.

She nods.

She moves with purpose across the tracks and through the

throng Reporters pelt her with questions.

Chertkov, Sasha and Valentin watch through the window.

Chertkov starts to put on his coat.

He heads toward the door.

Sofya has reached the edge of the platform where DUSHAN

gives his medical update, temperature and pulse, to the

press. She pulls Dushan aside. Reporters surround them.

Dushan is terrified. Valentin arrives at the platform.

She starts toward the building.

As Valentin arrives outside the door, he see Sofya

physically recoil. She is confronted by Chertkov and Sasha

blocking the door.

Members of the press, crowd `round trying to listen.

She gestures in Chertkov's direction. The passion attracts

more onlookers.

She does her best to ignore him.

Chertkov watches, makes little attempt to conceal his

pleasure.

A pause. Sofya is suddenly aware of the crowd around her.

Valentin nods.

Sofya takes his arm, starts back across the platform.

Shaken, she tries her best to maintain her dignity as she

walks through the crowd. She leans against Valentin,

whispers.

Around her, journalists ask questions, photographers call

out "Turn to us, Countess." "Show us your eyes."

Valentin, in his wrinkled suit, is asleep in a chair. He

wakes to see Sofya stretched out on the sofa. He watches

her. She doesn't stir. After a moment, he goes out.

Valentin emerges from the telegraph office. He walks along

the platform, a stack of letter and telegrams in his hands.

A few reporters type their early morning dispatches.

Valentin comes into the room, acknowledges Chertkov who

sits at his makeshift desk going through letters and

cables. He goes to the bedside, stops next to Dushan.

Silence, interrupted only by Tolstoy's incessant hiccups.

Valentin notices Dushan is on the verge of tears.

Weak, feverish, Tolstoy sits up in bed.   Sasha moves to

help him.

Valentin goes to Tolstoy. He's in a kind of panic. Chertkov

comes into the room.

He points to the corner.   But it is nothing, a gray shape

thrown by a coat rack.

Tolstoy's eyes fill with tears. Valentin looks to Sasha.

She looks from him to Chertkov.

All eyes are on Sasha.

Will she waiver?    A long, agonizing beat.

Valentin looks at the floor.

Tolstoy nods, pats Sasha's hand.

He leans back against the pillow and drifts again. Sasha

gets up and goes outside. After a moment, Valentin

follows.

Valentin sees her leaning against the wall.   She's in pain.

She turns to him.

Valentin touches her face, goes back inside and into

Where Chertkov has made a makeshift office. He pores

through the cables, letters and telegrams that litter the

station master's dining table. He holds one up for

Valentin.

Valentin walks to the table.

They see Sasha looking from the door.   She turns and closes

it.

He turns back at the door.

Valentin leaves the room.

The circus sleeps. Valentin sits on a bench outside the

station master's house. The tents erected by the press

glow like lanterns in the field.

Some people lie on the hard platform. He looks across the

tracks at Sofya's private car. A single light burns in the

window

Sofya keeps her solitary vigil. The priest has fallen

asleep sitting up. She finishes her prayers, gets up,

looks across at the lonely cottage. She can make out

Valentin's figure on the platform.

Dushan appears in the doorway. Solemn, he gestures for him

to come inside. Valentin stands.

Sofya watches the two figures disappear inside.

Valentin sees Chertkov standing near the bed. Dushan

returns to the chair next to Tolstoy. His cheeks are damp,

his breathing irregular.

Dushan begins to cry. Suddenly, Tolstoy becomes lucid.

Everyone moves nearer the bed. Tolstoy looks at Valentin.

There is a long pause. Sasha looks at Valentin.

He seems to smile.

He falls onto his pillow, asleep.

Sasha looks at him, shakes her head.

Everyone sleeps but Sofya. There is a knock on the door.

Sofya opens it. It is Sasha. A pause.

Sofya and Sasha walk to the door. The reporter calls out

Sasha takes her mother's hand.

She steps into the room. For a moment, she seems

overwhelmed at the sight of him. She looks at Valentin, who

nods at her as if to say go on. Sofya walks past Chertkov

without acknowledging him. Dushan lets go his hold of

Tolstoy's wrist and gets out of the chair, out of her way.

She approaches her sleeping, husband, the love of her life,

her cross, her everything.

A sizeable crowd has assembled, the usual reporters,

photographers, cinematographers, but students, too, and

soldiers, factory workers, housewives.

Dushan faces the crowd. Quiet. Quiet.

As Dushan finishes his tribute, a single voice begins to

sing the old Russian hymn, Eternal Memory. Gradually, more

and more of the crowd picks it up. Valentin begins to sing.

His eyes run over the crowd of mourners. Then, something

stops the flow of his gaze. His eyes fill with tears.

Masha. She walks slowly toward him out of the crowd. He

goes to her, takes her in a long embrace.

The song, the voices swell around them.   They hold each

other like they will never let go.

A black draped funeral train waits in the station. Many

mourners are congregated on the platform. Chertkov comes

out of the little house, followed by Andrey, Valentin and

Dushan carrying Tolstoy's coffin to the train.

Sofya appears with Sasha, who escorts her through the

crowd. The Orthodox priest approaches .

Sofya stares at him for a long moment.

She climbs onto the train.

Sofya settles into the comfort of the private car. She sits

next to Sasha. Andrey and Dushan are near her. There's a

noise from outside.

She looks out. Below the train window, Valentin and Masha

stand hand in hand. She gets up and opens the window.

Sofya smiles

Sofya nods.

Sofya sits back down with Sasha. They hold hands.

But at that moment, the train begins to move.

Sofya looks out the window, sees the people lined up along

the rail, mourn her loss. As she looks away, we see the

people reflected in the glass, some of them kneel, some of

them remove their hats.

Valentin watches the train pull away. He holds Masha to

him.

As the train   moves slowly through the corridor of mourners,

some of them   fall in and walk behind it. The camera travels

up and up as   the train travels north taking Sofya and her

husband back   to Yasnaya Polyana.

