FADE IN

EXT. BATTLEFIELD - NIGHT

On a FREEZE FRAME of a huge mortar on the edge of a dismal no-man's land,

surrounded by trees and overhanging branches. The distant roar of battle

RUMBLES ominously. SUPERIMPOSED TITLES appear and hold for a moment.

Abruptly, the image springs to life. The gun FIRES deafeningly. The nearby

branches shake violently. Another set of TITLES appears. The image FREEZES

again as a lone bugle plays a charge. Again and again and again, the image

moves, the gun DISCHARGES noisily, the image FREEZES and more sets of TITLES

appear with every FIRING.

On the last discharge, the trumpet fades and all hell breaks loose:

WAR MONTAGE

Nothing but FAST, BRUTAL FLASH CUTS of:

Cannon firing in all directions.

Massive explosions on the battlefield that light up the night.

Troops marching across a bridge as a shell hits the river below sending water

towering into the sky.

An entire cavalry division galloping hard over the battlefield, blazing mortar

fire visible above them on the horizon.

Brief shots of the horses, their grim riders hanging on for dear life, their

muscles flexing, hooves pounding the dirt. Men yelling.

FASTER AND FASTER, MORE AND MORE CHAOTIC:

Mortar fire, explosions, smoke.

A machine gunner fires.

A soldier falls.

Infantrymen, rifles in hand, press through the haze.

More machine gunning.

More soldiers go down.

A massive gun fires.

SMASH CUT of a tank tread bearing down on the CAMERA, blacking out the screen.

Infantrymen trail behind the heavy machinery, firing pistols, rifles.

A bridge explodes. A building explodes. The ground explodes.

A bomb drops from an airplane.

Aerial view of an exploding building.

Anti-aircraft guns at work.

Planes in the air.

A machine gun fires skyward.

Planes circle, filling the air.

A single bi-plane.

The plane's gunner, SHEP LAMBERT, looks down, surveys the situation, breaks

into a grin.

Shep nudges his pilot, CARY LOCKWOOD, and points. Cary looks down to see:

Another plane below. In it, pilot BILL TALBOT waves and salutes. FRANCIS, the

gunner, opens his mouth, smiles and nods up at them.

An enemy plane arrives.

The enemy pilot fires his twin machine guns.

Bill and Francis' plane spins away.

Bill cocks a snook at the enemy plane and waves dismissively at it, much to

Francis' amusement.

The planes circle in the air.

The enemy plane trails Shep and Cary. Shep FIRES his machine gun to no avail

as Cary watches.

The enemy pilot returns fire.

The two planes tango in mid-air.

Shep FIRES.

The enemy pilot grins and FIRES.

Bullet holes riddle the side of Shep and Cary's plane.

Cary warns Shep they've been hit.

From the enemy plane's POV, Shep and Cary's plane streams black smoke.

The two planes. Shep and Cary's plane goes into a steep dive, spinning out of

control.

Cary rips off his goggles as smoke pours up from below him.

Flames fill the cockpit as Cary's gloved hands desperately try to keep hold of

the red hot controls.

The plane, streaming smoke, spins wildly downward.

Shep, surrounded with smoke, looks skyward and salutes with mock gallantry.

Above, Bill and Francis watch. Bill returns the salute with a smile and waves.

Francis, though, doesn't look happy.

Shep twists in his seat and looks around.

Cary's hands grasp the controls in the flaming cockpit.

Despite the flames, Cary pulls back on the control stick.

From the plane's POV: The landscape rushes by.

The plane, now level, crashes into the ground and comes to an abrupt stop.

Smoke. Flames.

Cary jumps out of the cockpit and rushes back to Shep who is struggling to

clamber out.

Cary pulls Shep out and hauls him away from the burning wreckage where the two

of them collapse to the ground, half-conscious.

Flames consume the plane.

A TEMPERATURE CHART

for Lieutenant Shep Lambert, a patient at U.S. Army A.E.F. Base Hospital 145.

Shep's temperature readings for October 11th to October 26th are indicated by

a line on a graph, near a level marked CRITICAL. The distant sound of battle

continues to RUMBLE.

ANOTHER CHART

swings into view. This one is for Lieutenant Cary Lockwood whose readings for

October 27th to November 2nd are also below the CRITICAL mark. The line

continues and improves considerably by November 11th when the final reading is

marked NORMAL.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

The battle sounds are now joined by a loudly TICKING clock. With no sign of

energy or emotion, Shep and Cary sit together on a hospital cot in full

uniform. Shep wears dark eyeglasses. Cary has a coat draped over his hands. He

glances off. We follow his gaze, PANNING past other patients in the hospital

to a wall clock and calendar. It is November 11th and the time is almost

eleven A. M. The battle's RUMBLE drones on.

SHEP AND CARY

stare up at the clock. Behind his dark glasses, Shep's left eye twitches.

THE CLOCK

slowly DISSOLVES to one last BRIEF BATTLE MONTAGE: soldiers yelling and

running, guns firing noisily, a plane crashing, explosions. The final image is

of a plane parked on the ground, its engine dying, its propeller slowing to a

stop as we DISSOLVE BACK TO the clock face. The center of the clock is lined

up exactly with the center of the propeller -- the slowing propeller blades

are replaced by the clock's hands -- as if to symbolically suggest that the

war has ended but time goes on. The NOISE of battle fades and only the TICKING

of the clock remains. DISSOLVE TO the calendar: November 11th, 1918 --

Armistice Day.

SHEP AND CARY

sit motionless side-by-side on the cot. Shep has a hand over his left eye.

Shep lets go of his eye and looks at Cary as if the answer were obvious.

Cary grins wryly.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - NOT LONG AFTER

A nurse opens a door for Shep and Cary who enter. Shep wears his dark glasses.

Cary carries his coat to hide his hands. They pause as the doors they have

passed through close behind them.

Their distinguished-looking doctor, a medical officer with a white gown over

his uniform, sits at his desk studying their papers.

Shep removes his glasses and presses his hand to his eye.

The doctor examines Shep's eye more closely.

Shep puts his glasses back on.

Shep's lips tighten skeptically.

Shep glances at Cary.

The doctor gives Shep his release form and shakes his hand, then turns to

shake Cary's. Cary merely looks down darkly and raises a bandaged hand at him.

The doctor folds up the release and stuffs it in Cary's breast pocket.

The doctor gives Cary a pat on the shoulder.

Cary manages a smile and salutes. Shep moves to the door, saluting the doctor.

Shep opens the door and he and Cary head out. After the door closes, the

doctor rubs his head thoughtfully. He talks, apparently, to an offscreen aide.

He moves off as we

EXT. HOSPITAL - MOMENTS LATER

Shep and Cary exit the building but pause outside the doorway. They've seen

something coming toward them and glance at one another before clearing out of

its path. They watch glumly as a small group of wounded soldiers enter through

some metal gates, walk slowly past Shep and Cary without acknowledgment, and

head into the hospital.

EXT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - PERHAPS SIMULTANEOUS

The office window opens. The doctor -- no longer in white but wearing his

uniform -- and his aide take a break, standing in the window frame for a

little fresh air. The doctor smokes a cigarette as they discuss Shep and Cary.

The aide looks at him, quizzically.

We slowly PULL BACK from the two men.

We have pulled back far enough and now we

EXT. HOSPITAL - NOT LONG AFTER

Two uniformed men with familiar faces -- exuberant pilot Bill and reserved

gunner Francis -- arrive at the bottom of the stairs in front of the hospital.

Bill, with his arm in a sling, and Francis, using a cane, start up the stairs

and wave.

At the top of the stairs, Shep and Cary wave back, pleased to see them.

Unexpectedly, Shep and Cary hurry down the stairs past them.

Bill and Francis watch, surprised, as Shep and Cary hurry off.

Shep and Cary, already seated in the back of a waiting automobile, grin like

kids.

From the stairs, Francis smokes a cigarette and looks down at Shep and Cary

uncertainly. But Bill takes the news in stride -- he smiles and waves his hat

at them.

Smiling, Shep and Cary wave back as their car drives off.

EXT. THE EIFFEL TOWER - NIGHT

A superimposed text reads:

Traffic noise, taxi horns squeaking.

EXT. PARIS SIDEWALK - NIGHT

Strolling down the sidewalk four abreast, as if they own the town, come our

heroes -- Bill, Shep, Francis and Cary -- in smart hats and dinner clothes.

Outwardly, they seem to have recovered from their wounds. But:

Shep still wears his dark glasses and we occasionally glimpse his eye

twitching.

Cary's bandages are gone but he has not regained full use of his hands. His

personality is dark and dry, more subdued than Shep's, and he comes across as

the most levelheaded, rational member of the group -- its unacknowledged

leader.

Francis seems to have suffered the greatest toll psychologically. A

narcoleptic, strangely detached and unemotional much of the time, always on

the verge of dozing off, his speech slurs even when he isn't drunk.

Only the athlete of the group, Bill -- a burly Texan whose full name is

William Talbot -- is in outstanding physical shape. But he is reckless,

restless, and temperamental, covering up unnamed insecurities with bravado and

forced exuberance.

As a group, they turn and head into a nearby building.

A GLOWING SIGN

made of light bulbs, outside the building. It spells out CLARIDGE'S -- a

popular Parisian drinking establishment for Anglo-Americans.

INT. CLARIDGE'S - NIGHT

Numerous shelves holding numerous bottles of liquor. Employees in white

jackets hurriedly rush in and pull down a few bottles.

INT. CLARIDGE'S BAR - LENGTHY PANNING SHOT

The place is packed with well-dressed men and women. The bar is crowded with

men (and men only, for no women are allowed to sit at Claridge's bar) smoking,

drinking, conversing. At the end of the PAN, we discover our heroes entering,

greeted by an employee who takes their hats.

ANOTHER VIEW - NEAR THE BAR

An attractive young woman with a wide, vacant stare stands against a wall

opposite the bar holding a champagne glass in her hands. Her name is NIKKI and

she seems to be in a world all to herself.

Our four handsome heroes file past her, intent on finding a table. Only Cary

pays any attention to Nikki. After they have all passed her, he pauses to turn

and stare. She's extremely nearsighted and doesn't notice him. He looks at the

glass in her hand, puzzled. He starts off but then pauses.

After a second uncertain look, he moves off to join his friends who stand

together and peer around the crowded room, unable to find a place to sit. Cary

keeps looking at Nikki. He glances at the others and they follow his gaze:

NIKKI

still wearing a blank expression, clutches the glass in two hands.

THE GLASS

in her hands. Between her fingers, we glimpse its contents -- a complete set

of men's false teeth.

We PULL BACK to discover that Cary has approached her. He's standing right

next to her and is staring at the glass. She finally notices him.

After another look, Cary turns to his friends.

Shep, Bill and Francis hurry over like children and crowd around to stare in

amazement at the teeth. Nikki is unimpressed by all the attention.

As quickly as they arrived, Shep, Bill and Francis depart. Cary starts after

them but stops to politely address Nikki who has gone back into her trance.

They glance down at the teeth.

Cary hurries off as Nikki's empty eyes rise to the ceiling.

FLASH CUT - A MAN'S FACE

as it takes a combination one-two punch from a pair of fists.

FLASH CUT - THE MAN'S BODY

dropping unconscious to the floor.

OUR FOUR HEROES

enter a hallway just in time to see two Claridge's employees reach down and

haul away the unconscious body. Our heroes have missed the fight but Shep and

Bill are delighted anyway. Bill brushes his hands (one of his favorite

gestures) with satisfaction, as if he had thrown the punches himself:

Bill straightens his bow-tie. Already the group seeks a new distraction.

They head back to the bar.

THE BAR

Nikki, no longer standing against the wall, sits on a bar stool with her back

to the countertop, smoking a cigarette and holding an empty champagne glass.

Our heroes enter and, glancing at the wall, fail to see her. After a moment of

searching, Cary spots her at the bar.

All four crowd around her, pleased to be in her company.

The men chuckle.

Seats have opened up at the bar so they grab stools next to Nikki. Shep greets

the bartender:

The men are all excited to find out her name. Francis uses a pretzel as a

monocle to eye Nikki.

For the first time this evening, Shep takes off his dark glasses.

Drinks are served. A moment of silence as they imbibe. Nikki's hand shakes as

she lifts her glass, spilling some champagne. She laughs, embarrassed.

Shep, who has been watching her closely, also laughs.

Nikki notices Cary unsteadily using both his hands to hold his Martini.

Nikki chuckles. A dark look crosses Cary's face as he looks at her and puts

down his drink. Seeing this, Bill and Francis exchange worried glances. Cary

abruptly rises and leaves the bar. Mystified, Nikki looks quizzically at Shep

who is suddenly grim and annoyed.

Shep demonstrates with his hands as he explains:

Shep takes a swallow of his Martini, sets down the glass.

AT A TABLE

Cary sits with a fresh drink and is trying awkwardly to pick it up when a

handsome but humorless American journalist -- the unspeakable FRINK -- enters

and greets him casually.

Cary immediately turns his attention to a menu. Rebuffed, Frink wanders over

to the bar and sees the other men. He has a friendly pat on the back for

Francis and Bill.

Frink pauses to stare at Nikki's back, astonished to find a woman sitting at

the bar. Then he turns to Shep, amused.

Frink snaps his fingers at Jean and grabs a seat next to Shep. Jean asks for

Frink's order in French.

Jean moves off. Frink regards the others.

Francis holds his fingers to indicate a very small kite. Bill chuckles.

During all this, Nikki has been in her own little world. Frink leans over and

whispers to Shep.

Around her neck, on a slender chain, Nikki carries a small lorgnette. It opens

with a spring and has small rectangular lenses. She uses it frequently,

peering at unfamiliar objects in her helpless, nearsighted way. On Shep's

remark, she whips it out to stare at him, mildly offended. He raises his drink

to his lips and turns to her, speaking out of the side of his mouth:

Nikki looks away glumly as Shep grins at her. She turns and sees something.

She raises her lorgnette for a better look at:

CARY

who sits at his table, staring into space, holding his unread menu in his lap.

NIKKI

is pleased to see Cary.

She rises to join him.

CARY

startled, rises and stares at Nikki as she approaches.

She tries to take his hands but he pulls them away in horror and stuffs them

in his pockets.

Wildly uncomfortable, Cary glances around like a cornered animal and finally

stalks away without a word, hands still stuffed in his pockets. Stunned, Nikki

watches him exit the building. She realizes she's done something terribly

wrong and moves to follow him.

But Shep intercepts her. Upset, she whimpers.

He clasps her hand and leads her to:

THE BAR

Francis and Bill watch, disturbed, as Shep guides a crying Nikki onto a stool

beside them. Shep sits next to her as she continues to sob. She pulls out a

compact to fix her tear-stained face.

Nikki takes a sip, then busies herself with putting away her compact.

Meanwhile, Bill leans in.

ANOTHER VIEW

Frink watches suspiciously as Shep pays the tab, rises and whispers to Nikki.

Nikki obediently hops off her stool and Shep leads her away from the bar,

toward the exit. Bill and Frink are distressed to see her go. Bill calls after

Shep:

Bill gestures grandly toward the bar with its many shelves of liquor bottles.

Francis and Bill head out the door. After a moment, Frink follows behind.

EXT. AVENUE DES CHAMPS ELYSEES - LATER THAT NIGHT

A taxi cab -- filled with Bill, Francis, Shep, Nikki and Frink -- pulls up to

a restaurant. As it stops, Bill rises and points to someone at a sidewalk

table.

The others look.

The group cheers, spills out of the taxi and heads for:

THE SIDEWALK TABLE

where Cary sits reading a newspaper.

Cary looks up. He rises, a little startled, and politely removes his hat. The

others crowd around him.

They all take seats around the little table. During this, Frink brings a chair

for Nikki who grabs a seat of her own. When he tries to use it to sit next to

her, Bill commandeers it for himself.

A waiter joins them as they settle in.

The waiter departs. Off her order, Bill gives Nikki a look.

Shep laughs derisively. The others give him a look and he shuts up. The drinks

arrive. All the men, save Cary, snatch up their glasses. Bill removes the

toothpicked olive and swallows his Martini whole. He watches Nikki rubbing her

champagne's drinking straw between her hands as if she were a Boy Scout trying

to start a fire.

Meanwhile, Cary attempts -- with some success -- to drink his Martini with one

unsteady hand. Bill inspects Nikki's mouth.

The men are amused. Nikki sips her champagne.

Bill chuckles. Shep abruptly rises and walks off, presumably to the rest room.

Bill and Nikki laugh at this. Suddenly, Nikki grows thoughtful.

They all consider this for a moment as a fresh round of drinks arrives. Frink

abruptly rises and walks off, presumably to the rest room.

An odd CHIMING sound distracts them. They look off to see:

FRANCIS

the narcoleptic, arms folded, asleep in his chair. He awakes with a frown,

pulls a pocket watch from inside his jacket, opens it, and looks at it. The

chiming ends and he rises without a word and exits.

AT THE TABLE

Nikki watches Francis' exit curiously. Bill waves her off before she can ask:

Cary puts a fist on his hip and gives Nikki an exasperated look. Taxi horns

squeak. Francis, Shep and Frink return from their various adventures and sit

down as Bill gives Nikki his opinion of Francis.

Bill grins as Nikki inspects him closely through her lorgnette.

Bill's face falls. He looks at Nikki.

She nods. Shep is amused.

Shep looks down the street.

They all look to see:

A HORSE-DRAWN CAB

rolling down the street in their direction.

AT THE TABLE

Everyone watches as Bill rises and suddenly bolts in the direction of the cab.

THE HORSE-DRAWN CAB

rolling along as Bill runs in and tackles the horse, locking his big arms

around the animal's front legs to trip up the poor creature.

ON THE SIDEWALK

Cary, horrified, stands and yells:

Cary runs off, toward Bill, leaving a thrilled Shep and a worried Francis with

a distressed Nikki. They all stare in concerned amazement as a crowd of

pedestrians stops to watch the excitement.

AT THE HORSE-DRAWN CAB

Cary rushes up to the startled cab driver who is pulling hard on the reins.

Cary forces a wad of francs into the driver's hand. The cabman protests in

French but takes the cash.

WIDER VIEW

of the fallen horse as the driver descends from the cab. Standing up now, Bill

tries to haul the horse to its feet while Cary tries to placate the driver.

ANOTHER VIEW

Bill grabs the horse by its bridle and tries to pull it up. The horse, sorely

annoyed, gets up on its own and shakes its head violently to drive Bill away.

Bill hangs on and tries to calm the horse. Cary tries to pull Bill away as

Frink, Francis and the driver gather around. Bill is more interested in

petting the horse which understandably shies away from him.

Satisfied with the outcome of all this, Bill heads back for the sidewalk.

The driver nods but is more concerned with reining in his skittish horse.

The cabbie salutes Cary but pays more attention to his horse.

BACK AT THE SIDEWALK TABLE

The waiter sets out a fresh round of drinks as the group returns. Bill happily

dusts off the sleeve of his dinner jacket. Cary, beside him, leads him to his

seat. They all sit down under the following:

Nikki abruptly rises.

Francis immediately understands that she's become one of them. He raises an

olive in the air and cheers:

The men rise and all but Frink cheer her lustily as she departs:

NIKKI

walks proudly into the restaurant as the men cheer. A smiling maitre d'

directs her to the ladies' room.

BACK AT THE TABLE

Frink watches Nikki disappear from view and, after a glance at the others,

rises and follows her. Shep, Bill and Cary remain at the table, laughing and

drinking. Bill turns to Cary with a smile.

Cary glances in Nikki's direction and tells Bill confidentially:

Bill thinks about this and nods.

INSIDE THE RESTAURANT

As Nikki returns from her Chinese singing lesson, Frink puts his arm against a

wall, blocking her way.

Nikki pushes his arm away and heads for the table. Frink watches her go, a

dark look on his face.

BACK AT THE SIDEWALK TABLE

The men rise briefly as Nikki rejoins them and sits.

Nikki lowers her eyes.

Cary gives her a look. Bill clears his throat.

Bill rises and claps his hands with enthusiasm.

Whatever that means. The men rise and retrieve their hats.

INT. BAL TABARIN BALL ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

A festive Parisian night spot. Dance MUSIC plays while a floor show, lit by

moving spotlights, unfurls in the huge, darkened ballroom which is ringed with

crowded tables. A handsome male dancer, in tuxedo and top hat, whirls

exuberantly around the floor, surrounded by beautiful chorus girls.

Somewhere above all this, Nikki, lit by spotlight flashes, sits on the edge of

a ringside balcony observing the show with eager interest through her

lorgnette.

The show continues: after a few twirls, the dancer links arms with the girls

to form a line and do some precision high-kicking. The music continues but the

dance apparently ends and the lights come up. Impressed, Nikki is breathless.

Nearby, the men sit at a roped-off table for six on a low balcony. Cary and

Francis sit glumly on one side of the table as Bill tries to tell a story to

the others (Frink; a nameless young woman nicknamed "Kiss-Me-Quick" who

appears in this scene only; Shep and Nikki).

Cary and Francis look doubtful about this. Bill sits at the table.

Nobody laughs or even changes expression.

Bill is disappointed at the response.

Cary gives her a look, then rises and peers with one eye into the open bottle

of champagne on the table between him and Nikki. He gestures at the bottle as

he sits back down.

Everybody cracks up -- except Nikki, who looks a little hurt.

An empty champagne bottle is placed on the floor.

INT. BAL TABARIN BALL ROOM - STILL LATER THAT NIGHT

By now, a dozen empty champagne bottles have been placed on the floor.

CLOSE SHOT - FRINK'S HAND

strays to Nikki's legs and up her dress.

WIDER

Nikki rises indignantly and turns on Frink.

WIDER STILL

The other men seated at the table understand instantly what's going on and

stare darkly at Frink.

Frink nervously adjusts his necktie. Cary glares at him.

Frink, pretending chagrin, looks at Nikki.

The others, except for Frink, begin to rise, too. Shep pays the waiter.

Nikki laughs as they all depart. Frink rises wearily to follow them out.

INT. HOTEL CARLTON - LOBBY - LATER THAT NIGHT

The group enters the spacious, empty lobby, laughing loudly. Someone says,

"Wheeee!" Others say, "Ssshhh!" They cross to the front desk.

AT THE FRONT DESK

The clerk is fast asleep, his head down on the desk. Nikki is about to wake

him when Bill bounds forward.

Bill waves the others on and they exit toward the elevators.

Once they've gone, Bill, the athlete, vaults the front desk and lands -- with

a little noise -- on the other side, without waking the clerk.

He cautiously checks the clerk to make sure the sleeping man hasn't awakened,

then fetches Nikki's key from its cubbyhole.

Bill leaps up on top of the desk, landing on his rear end, swinging his legs

around -- nearly kicking the clerk in the process -- then silently slides off

the desk to the floor.

Watching the sleeping clerk warily, Bill tiptoes away.

At the last possible moment, Bill purposefully WHACKS the signal bell with his

hand, making it RING noisily. The clerk awakens with a start and grabs a

nearby telephone just as Bill disappears from view.

IN THE HOTEL ELEVATOR

Amused, the group piles into the "ascenseur". Last one in is Bill who shuts

the door and the metal safety gate behind him.

Bill looks for the controls as Cary turns playfully to the others.

Bill finds the appropriate lever and grabs hold.

Bill pulls the lever and the car rockets up the shaft.

Most everybody cheers. They watch with great interest as the floors pass by

rapidly.

Bill brakes the car and starts it back down the shaft.

Bill brakes the car too quickly -- it slams to a halt and everyone loses their

footing, nearly falling down. Part of the light fixture above them breaks

loose and crashes down on Frink's head, much to everyone's amusement -- they

laugh as Frink clutches his head, annoyed.

Bill reaches for the controls but Shep grabs the tail of Bill's jacket and

pulls him away.

Bill brushes his hands, his pride a little hurt.

The car starts up the shaft again.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - FIFTH FLOOR - MINUTES LATER - LONG TRAVELING SHOT

The elevator door opens. Cary leads the way as everyone else spills out

happily into the hall. Shep puts a congratulatory arm around Cary.

Bill pins Nikki's room key to Cary's vest pocket. Smiling, Cary holds it up

proudly to Nikki.

They head down the hallway in a drunken, disorganized fashion. Shep walks an

imaginary tightrope, wobbling spectacularly. Cary, bringing up the rear, shuts

the elevator door and escorts Nikki.

Francis drops into a handy chair and lights a cigarette but Bill immediately

hauls him up:

Bill, whistling and pretending to ice skate, leads the group down the hall.

Francis tries to enter a room but Frink pulls him out of the doorway. Bill

backtracks to help Frink escort Francis. This allows Cary and Nikki to take

the lead. Nikki indicates the correct doorway to Cary.

The group cheers. Cary unlocks the door. The group enters Nikki's hotel room.

INT. NIKKI'S HOTEL SUITE - SITTING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Laughing, the group files into the darkened room and spreads out.

Nikki switches on the lights. Bill marvels at the luxurious suite.

Delighted, Shep starts to crank up the gramophone.

Amused and pleased by their reaction, Nikki heads for her bedroom.

Shep picks up a book and admires it grandly.

The gramophone comes to life and MUSIC plays from a record. Nikki passes into

the bedroom and switches on a light.

Frink tries to follow Nikki into the bedroom but Bill pointedly intercepts

him. Disappointed, Frink looks past him into Nikki's bedroom and Bill follows

his gaze to see:

PERFUME BOTTLES

on Nikki's glass-topped dressing table -- dozens of them.

Bill enters and inspects the table closely.

NIKKI'S BEDROOM

as the other four men respond to Bill's enthusiastic summons and enter.

Cary joins Bill at the table as the Texan picks up one of the bottles and

reads the label.

But Bill goes right on, delighted. The others crowd around the table.

During this, Francis has casually inspected a curtained walk-in closet near

the table. He pulls the curtain to reveal a rack of carefully hung dresses and

a floor covered with dozens of shoes organized in impeccably straight lines.

The others gather to peer into the closet. Frink loses interest immediately

but whistles at the sight of Nikki's sheer nightgown draped across her bed. He

moves to it eagerly.

Nikki sits on the edge of the bed removing her shoes as Frink picks up her

silk bedclothes and examines them with a grin. Bill pointedly takes the gown

out of Frink's hand. Tight-lipped, Frink stares at him. Suddenly, Bill points

to a small wind-up clock on Nikki's night table.

Bill drops the garment on the bed and moves to the night table.

Nikki removes her earrings as Frink walks off and Cary takes a seat at the

foot of the bed.

Bill shakes the clock and puts it to his ear, listening.

Bill heads for the bathroom but then stops and turns back to Nikki.

Bill disappears into the bathroom, leaving Nikki and Cary sitting on the bed.

Nikki peers at Cary through her lorgnette.

The phonograph MUSIC ends just as Bill's voice calls from the bathroom.

Cary turns toward the bathroom.

Shep runs past and hurries into the bathroom. Cary rises from the bed to

follow. Nikki is perhaps mildly surprised by the excitement.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT - TWO TURTLES

swimming in shallow water at the bottom of a bathtub. A couple of decorative

lily pads lie next to the drain. The turtles' shells are inlayed with

brilliants.

BATHROOM

Bill kneels by the tub as Frink, Shep, Francis and Cary join him. Bill points

out his discovery to the others.

Francis picks up a turtle and shows it to Cary.

Cary examines the turtle for a moment, placing a finger on it.

Cary and Francis inspect the turtle.

BATHROOM DOORWAY

Nikki enters and addresses the men.

Cary joins her.

AT THE BATHTUB

The other men, still lined up at the tub enjoying the turtles, are

disappointed.

They rise reluctantly. Bill shakes water off his hand.

They file out of the bathroom.

Frink follows the others humorlessly, without a word to the turtles.

TRACKING SHOT - THROUGH THE SUITE

The entire group exits the bathroom, passes through the bedroom and heads into

the sitting room.

As Bill enters the sitting room, he looks around and hurries away toward

something he sees off screen. Shep and Francis follow.

Francis says nothing.

Frink is the last out the bedroom door, though Cary stays behind to linger a

moment with Nikki.

SITTING ROOM

Bill takes a pillow from the sofa and tosses it across the room. He proceeds

to leap feet first onto the sofa, fall on his back with his feet in the air,

then stretch his legs out across the sofa, lying down to go to sleep.

Shep, watching this, scratches his head, confused, then moves to join him.

Frink watches Francis drag some sort of heavy fringed rug to the floor near

the sofa, apparently preparing to lie down on it.

AT THE BEDROOM DOOR

Nikki and Cary stand close, exchanging warm goodnights.

Cary, perhaps pleased with Nikki's attention to him, watches her withdraw into

the bedroom and shut the door. He turns from the door to see:

LOW ANGLE SHOT - SITTING ROOM

Four men, happily situated, settling in for a night's sleep: Bill and Shep on

the sofa, Frink on a chair, their three pairs of feet propped up on a table.

Francis, his head on a pillow, lies on the floor, stretching his legs and

yawning as only a narcoleptic can.

CARY

peers at them skeptically, hands on his hips.

Cary hears the bedroom door open behind him and turns to see:

NIKKI

opening the door, wearing a robe, carrying a bottle of eau de Cologne and some

towels.

LOW ANGLE SHOT - SITTING ROOM

Excited again, Bill jumps to his feet, upsetting the others in the process.

The men struggle to their feet and follow him to:

NIKKI

holds the bottle in her hand. The men's hands reach for it but Bill is quicker

than the others and commandeers it with authority.

From over Nikki's nearly bare back, we watch Bill whistling jauntily as he

shakes eau de Cologne onto a towel.

CARY

now seated, watches this coolly as he takes out a cigarette and lights it.

BILL AND NIKKI

Bill examines Nikki's back with delight.

His eyes pop. For Nikki, though, this is an asexual activity.

Bill places her head on his left shoulder and prepares to scrub with his

right.

He scrubs a little.

More scrubbing -- his tongue sticks out of his mouth as he studies his work.

SHEP, FRINK AND FRANCIS

watch all this with envy and interest.

BILL AND NIKKI

Bill keeps scrubbing, adopting the air of a professional back scrubber.

He lifts her hair to inspect her neck.

He scrubs her neck.

More scrubbing and then an amusing pantomime: To Nikki's bewilderment, Bill

pulls back the hair over her ear, looks down into her ear, cleans it out with

his little finger, flicks wax off his finger daintily, buffs the ear with the

towel, and finally blows sharply into the ear, causing her to wince. She

places her head on his shoulder again. More scrubbing.

TRACKING SHOT - SITTING ROOM

We start on Cary, who sits rocking in a tilted chair and smoking, watching

Bill and Nikki with amusement. After a pause:

By now, we've pulled back far enough to take in the whole group. Bill finishes

his scrubbing and Nikki adjusts her robe.

They watch her move off. We hear the bedroom door close. Bill realizes

something, snaps his fingers, claps his hands and starts off.

He rushes off. Shep, Francis and Frink rise and follow. Cary merely collects

his hat and cane and heads for the front door.

SITTING ROOM - ANOTHER VIEW

Bill and Shep carry the sofa over and place it directly in front of Nikki's

closed bedroom door. Francis brings his rug and pillow.

CARY

watches them, amused, from the front door.

SITTING ROOM - ANOTHER VIEW

The men settle in for the night.

Bill waves good night and collapses on the sofa. Frink, glancing at Cary,

brings his chair and sits in it. Francis lies on the floor. Shep fluffs

pillows on the sofa, etc.

CARY

turns, shuts off the lights, opens the front door and exits the darkened room,

closing the door behind him.

FADE IN

INT. CARLTON BAR - NEXT MORNING

The drinking hole in Nikki's hotel. A French woman noisily arranges dirty

drinking glasses as Bill, Francis and Shep enter -- horribly hungover, moaning

and yawning -- and line up at the bar. A bartender greets them to take their

order.

Shep has to nudge Francis with an elbow.

Bartender moves off. Shep puts on his dark eyeglasses.

CARLTON BAR - ANOTHER VIEW

We start on a CLOSE SHOT of three drinking glasses as the bartender breaks a

raw egg into one. Beside them are the other ingredients of a potent hangover

remedy. We PAN OVER to the three men:

Francis shakes his head, he has no idea.

Francis nods in agreement. Shep thinks it over as the drinks arrive.

Shep pays off the bartender who departs with a mumbled "thank you." The three

men each down their nasty hangover cures in a single swallow and move off one

at a time -- first Shep who exhales deeply, then Francis who takes it in

stride. Finally, Bill exhales happily and claps his hands as he follows the

others out, their hangovers apparently remedied.

FADE IN

INT. NIKKI'S SUITE - LATER THAT DAY

Phonograph music plays as an Asian maid, the hotel's specialist in Chinois

Pedicure, paints Nikki's toenails. We PAN UP to discover Nikki wearing a robe,

sitting in a chair next to the phonograph, smoking a cigarette and checking on

the progress of her paint job. A snappy knock at the door.

THE FRONT DOOR

opens and Bill, looking dapper, enters.

Then, Shep enters, wearing his dark eyeglasses and carrying a bouquet of

flowers.

Next, Francis enters, sleepily.

Finally, Cary, who closes the door behind him.

The men are all: wearing suits and ties, pleased to see her, and stone sober.

Francis finds his way to the sofa, which has been returned to its proper spot

in the room. He lies down and shuts his eyes.

Shep puts the flowers in a vase.

Cary leans over her affectionately.

Bill and Shep kneel next to Nikki. Bill notices the toenail painting.

Cary stands behind Nikki as she looks down at her toes.

Cary smiles. Nikki, Bill and Shep share a laugh. The Asian woman goes right on

painting as Bill and Shep study Nikki's legs. During this, Nikki hands her

cigarette to Cary who moves to put it in an ashtray by the window.

Cary stares out the window at a rainy day.

Cary turns from the window.

Cary manages a slight grin. As he does, there's a knock at the door. Everyone

hollers, "Entrez!" Shep runs to the door and opens it.

The others cheer happily. Two hotel employees enter carrying trays loaded with

already poured drinks. Shep hands a glass to Nikki.

Shep hands Bill a glass.

Francis sits groggily on the sofa, a drink in each hand. He polishes off one

and then the other. He leans over and sets one empty glass on the floor but

holds on to the other as he puts his head to the nearby pillow and dozes off.

Cary, Bill and Shep crowd around Nikki who is still seated -- all have drinks.

The tray-carrying hotel employees have apparently exited. Bill proposes a

toast.

They drink. Another knock at the door. They all yell, "Entrez!" The door opens

to reveal Frink -- whose face falls when he sees the other men with Nikki. The

others are not happy to see him, either.

Cary hands his glass to Bill and moves to meet Frink as he enters.

Cary watches Frink approach Nikki.

After a pause, Nikki looks up at him uncertainly as if she doesn't recognize

him. Then she peers at him through her lorgnette.

Frink moves off to find a chair. Shep sets down his drink and follows him.

Frink starts to move a chair but Shep stops him.

During the above dialogue, Bill nudges Cary mischievously and they glance down

at the tray in front of them. They exchange knowing nods, pick up some drinks,

bring them over, and offer one to Frink.

Bill and Shep watch with interest as Frink holds out his hands, palms up.

Frink turns them over, palms down. Cary looks at Frink's steady hands,

impressed.

Cary looks down at the drink in his own hand.

Cary sets the glass on top of Frink's downturned hand. Frink balances the full

glass with ease.

Cary places a second full glass on Frink's other hand. Frink balances both

glasses with ease. Cary expresses keen admiration.

Frink looks at the others, a little smugly. Cary slowly backs away and walks

off, as do the others. Frink's face falls as he realizes he has been left

standing in the middle of the room with two drinks balanced on top of his

hands and no way to safely remove them.

Cary, Shep and Bill return to Nikki and crowd around her.

Frink, abandoned, reluctantly pleads with the others.

But the others simply ignore him.

The Asian maid who has been working on Nikki's feet abruptly rises.

The men cheer, "Yay!" and Nikki smiles at the woman as she exits with her

tools. The men crowd closer to peer down at Nikki's legs.

But Nikki quickly covers her toes with a hand.

Nikki wraps her robe around her legs and stuffs them under body. Since she's

no longer using her footstool, Cary commandeers it and sits on it.

Nikki grows extremely somber and begins to tell a story -- very slowly. Her

eyes stare into space and her voice conveys terrible sadness.

A worried look crosses Cary's face.

Shep and Bill listen soberly.

Their eyes pop. The men jump up eagerly and run off. Nikki, thoroughly

nonplussed by this, takes a sip of her drink. Shep, Cary and Bill crowd around

a tray and start imbibing.

Meanwhile, Frink looks around unsuccessfully for a way to lose the two glasses

that are still balanced on his hands.

For the first time in this scene, Nikki is on her feet. She walks over to the

drink tray and puts a friendly hand on the shoulders of Shep and Cary.

Nikki walks off, exiting into her bedroom. The men continue to stand around

the tray, drinking. In the background, Francis sleeps on the sofa.

Over by the fireplace, a frustrated Frink, still balancing the two drinks,

casts a dirty look at the others. He angrily hurls the glasses into the

fireplace, smashing them loudly. Francis, startled awake by the noise, jumps

off the sofa. The others stare at him.

Frink, furious, rubs his hands with a handkerchief and stuffs it in his

pocket.

Shep, Bill and Cary laugh at this. Cary consults his pocket watch.

Bill waves goodbye. Cary eats a last olive, tosses the toothpick and heads for

the front door.

Cary exits as Nikki's voice drifts in from:

THE OPEN BEDROOM DOORWAY

Shep, drink in hand, enters and leans on the wall outside the door.

Nikki appears in the doorway, dressed to go out.

Lost in thought, Nikki moves off and a worried Shep follows her to:

THE FRONT DOOR

Shep stops Nikki from leaving. She's a little downcast as he admonishes her:

Nikki opens the front door and exits into:

THE HALLWAY

where Cary -- carrying coat, hat and cane -- emerges from a suite across the

hall from Nikki's and heads for the elevator. He stops when he hears Nikki

calling to him. She runs to join him.

Without waiting for a reply, she starts for the elevator, then stops to look

down at her shoes.

She leaves him and runs back to:

THE FRONT DOOR

of her suite where Shep still stands. He watches with surprise as Nikki runs

in.

Puzzled, Shep follows Nikki who rushes to:

HER BEDROOM CLOSET

Nikki draws the curtain to reveal her enormous collection of dresses and

shoes. Shep, drink in hand, wanders in slowly and leans against the doorjamb

as he watches Nikki pull off one pair of shoes and put on a seemingly

identical pair of red ones.

Shep watches her hop and scurry off.

FADE IN

EXT. AVENUE CASIMIR-PERIER - LATER THAT DAY

Passerbys carry umbrellas on this rainy day. A taxi cab pulls up to a sidewalk

cafe -- LA REGENCE, according to the awning that covers the little iron

tables. Cary emerges from the cab and pays off the driver as Nikki hurries

under the awning. Cary joins her and, after a word to the driver ("Restez

ici."), looks at the rain.

They move toward the cafe. As Cary hangs up his hat, a waiter arrives.

Cary orders the drinks as Nikki moves to sit at a table.

The waiter acknowledges this and heads inside, calling out the order to his

bartender. Cary joins Nikki at the table and sits down. She removes her gloves

and fixes her face while he takes out a cigarette and lights it under the

following:

The waiter arrives with the drinks. As he spritzes seltzer water into their

glasses, Cary leans over to light a cigarette for Nikki. The waiter leaves and

they drink.

Nikki exhales, drinks, looks at Cary and shakes her head.

Nikki finishes the last of her drink.

Cary leaves some money, Nikki gathers her things. They rise and walk off.

EXT. CEMETERY - LATE THAT AFTERNOON

Cary and Nikki stroll into view, arm in arm, and look around. The rain has

stopped. They are the only living people in the ancient cemetery.

They've paused. Cary looks around, points with his cane.

He gives her a look and they move on.

They stop.

They approach the large tomb which is fenced off by a low iron gate. Cary

removes his hat, Nikki peers at the double sepulchre through her lorgnette.

They crouch at the iron bars of the gate surrounding the tomb and take off

their gloves under the following:

They reach through the gate to poke at the rocks and gravel surrounding the

tomb. After a moment, Nikki rises and walks off excitedly with a stone in her

hand.

Cary, too, finds a stone and rises to join her.

NIKKI AND CARY'S HANDS

as the couple sits near the tomb. They show each other the stones in their

upturned hands. Nikki takes the heart-shaped stone from her palm and places it

in Cary's stiff, weathered hand. Then she transfers his stone to her hand.

They close their hands over the stones as we PULL BACK to a WIDER VIEW of

Nikki and Cary smiling at one another.

He starts to rise but she puts a hand on his arm.

He stares at her, astonished, as she rambles on.

Nikki turns to put the bracelet in her purse. Thoroughly unnerved by this

emotional outburst, Cary looks around.

Cary rises, deeply uncomfortable. Nikki tries to make amends.

Cary turns and looks at her, amazed.

He looks down at the heart-shaped stone held awkwardly in his stiff hand. His

thumb brushes the stone and it falls to the ground.

INT. NIKKI'S BEDROOM - THAT NIGHT

Nikki sits, soberly polishing Cary's bracelet with her nail brush. Shep

enters, drink in hand.

She looks at Shep forlornly.

Shep walks over and confronts her.

Shep cracks up with laughter and falls backward on the bed, his head dangling

over the edge.

Shep keeps laughing, twists around on the bed and sits up again.

Shep holds a hand to his head and catches his breath as Nikki joins him on the

bed.

Shep cracks up again. Worried, Nikki tugs at his sleeve.

Nikki rises and urgently pulls Shep, helpless with laughter, to his feet.

She pushes him toward the door.

They exit.

INT. CARY'S ROOM - LATER

Cary removes clothes from a rack as a now serious Shep, drink in hand, stands

nearby trying to reason with him.

Cary packs a weathered suitcase.

Cary stops packing and gives Shep a look.

Shep stares at Cary, astonished, and moves off. Cary sets his packed suitcase

upright.

INT. NIKKI'S SUITE - LATE THAT NIGHT

Bill and Shep set a large steamer trunk upright.

Bill opens the trunk.

Nikki appears, carrying a suitcase.

Getting organized for their own impromptu Portuguese expedition, Bill, Francis

and Shep fill the trunk with Nikki's things as Frink leans on it, smoking a

cigarette and eyeing Nikki coolly.

Bill joins Nikki.

She brushes past him and crosses to a table where she is joined by Frink.

Frink walks out the door. Nikki sighs a little and then busies herself with

carrying items the trunk. Shep arrives with a selection of dresses as the

group crowds together. Chaotic overlapping dialogue:

From the trunk, we

INT. NIKKI'S SUITE - NEXT MORNING

A mountain of trunks and other luggage piled on the floor. Nikki sits down

near Shep who finishes packing a suitcase on the floor.

Francis leans casually on the towering pile of luggage. Bill stands next to

him, smoking a cigarette and calling ironically to Nikki:

Francis clicks his tongue as he regards the pile.

Suddenly, Nikki gasps and rises.

THE TURTLES

are plucked from the tub and placed in ...

... A BASKET

by Nikki's little Asian maid. The fancy beribboned wicker basket has an

oversized handle which makes it a rather improbable turtle carrier. Bill

secures a wire mesh covering over the basket and carries it out of the

bathroom, handing it grandly to Francis.

Bill walks off. Francis calls after him, worried:

Nikki arrives with a bottle of water and soaks her hand.

She gives Francis the bottle and sprinkles the turtles with water from her wet

hand.

Some of the water ends up in Francis' eye which he wipes with the basket's

ribbon. Nikki walks off and Francis practices soaking his hand and sprinkling

the turtles.

IN THE BEDROOM

Five bellhops march in and, under the direction of Nikki and the men, proceed

to carry off the luggage, chattering in French.

Burdened with luggage, the bellhops file out through the suite. Bill, suitcase

in hand, follows them out, beckoning to Francis behind him.

Francis hurries along carrying the basket, followed by Shep and Nikki.

FADE IN

EXT. TRAIN STATION - LATER THAT MORNING

A whistle BLOWS. Their luggage already aboard, Francis, Nikki, Shep and Bill

walk down the platform, parallel to the train. Bill claps his hands

exuberantly.

Bill laughs. Nikki peers at the train through her lorgnette.

Bill gives Francis a supportive pat on the back.

Francis nods soberly. Bill laughs. Nikki points, excited.

FARTHER DOWN THE PLATFORM

Cary buys a paper from a newsboy and steps onto his train.

On the train steps, Cary stops and turns as his friends arrive and gather

around him, grinning.

Climbing the steps, Bill and Shep crowd a confused Cary and force him into the

train. Following the others, Francis helps Nikki up the steps.

They all board the train and head for:

INT. CARY'S COMPARTMENT - A MOMENT LATER

The group crowds into the small compartment.

Bill pushes a button for the porter.

Everyone but Cary grabs a seat. Astonished, Cary stares at each as they speak:

The whistle BLOWS. Cary panics.

The trains starts. Bill jauntily throws his hat up to the luggage rack above

and the others settle in for their journey.

Frink enters casually.

Cary is stunned. Frink sits down with the others.

The group takes in the train's departure with perfect composure. Cary stands

and looks at them for a moment before breaking into a understanding grin.

Cary sits. As the train hurtles out of the now empty station, Nikki suddenly

turns to the window and waves goodbye to no one at all:

Shep, Bill and Francis quickly join in, waving and shouting goodbye, much to

Cary's amusement. Even Frink manages a smile at this.

THE TRAIN'S WHEELS

racing down the track.

INT. CARY'S COMPARTMENT - IN THE HEAT OF THE EVENING

The compartment doorway. We hear the men laughing. Bill -- drink in hand, his

necktie loosened and his coat off -- appears in the doorway, coming from the

train's corridor.

With a grand gesture, Bill presents an elderly British gentleman who follows

him into the little room, greeted with a cheer of "Hooray!" from the men who

sit around, similarly coatless (save Frink), smoking and drinking.

Various bottles stand on a central table. The old gentleman is greeted warmly

but it's never clear whether he is an old friend or a total stranger.

Bill and the old gentleman sit down. Nikki dozes in her seat by the window.

The basket of turtles hangs from above.

The men laugh. A whistle BLOWS. The conductor appears briefly in the doorway

to announce in French that the mademoiselle's compartment is ready.

Nikki wakes, rises, and clutching her pillow, heads for the doorway.

Bill rises to confer with her at the door.

The old gentleman looks rather astonished at this casual exchange.

The men say, "Good night." Frink, who has been watching Nikki with a predatory

eye, is the most polite:

Nikki turns and disappears down the corridor. The old gentleman mops his brow

with a handkerchief and stuffs it in his collar.

During the next exchange, Frink, seated by the door, grins at Bill and Shep,

then notices Francis dozing off. Frink cautiously rises and exits into the

corridor without anyone noticing his departure.

Francis' pocket watch CHIMES. He wakes, rises, puts on his hat and moves

absently toward the door. Seeing this, Shep, Bill and Cary shout at him:

"Whoa!" Francis pauses in the doorway and sleepily turns to the others.

Francis moves to the hanging basket of turtles, takes off his hat and, bottle

in hand, wets his fingers and sprinkles the turtles. Curious, the old

gentleman rises to join him. Francis explains as he works:

The old gentleman nods and clicks his tongue with understanding.

A woman's SCREAM drifts in from the corridor.

The men hear Nikki SCREAMING.

Francis, Cary, Bill and Shep -- in that order -- scramble out the door,

leaving the old gentleman behind.

The men rush down the corridor to:

INT. NIKKI'S COMPARTMENT - A MOMENT LATER

Frink grapples with a half-dressed Nikki, his lips pressed to her neck as she

struggles to free herself from his grasp.

Energized by Nikki's peril, Francis bursts in and pulls Frink away from her.

Nikki grabs a wrap from the turned-down bed and covers herself as Frink pushes

Francis hard into a nearby wall, knocking him to the floor.

Frink turns back to a defiant Nikki as Cary enters and sees a dazed Francis

slumped against the wall, clutching his head. Cary grabs Frink's shoulder and

spins him around.

By now, Bill and Shep have entered and joined the tense confrontation.

Cary rolls his eyes at this remark and wisely holds Bill back.

Distraught, Nikki sinks down on a chair.

Frink turns to her in protest.

Frink starts to strong-arm Cary. Cary punches Frink in the jaw, knocking him

onto the bed.

As Frink slumps down to floor and leans against the bed, half-conscious,

Francis rises and watches the proceedings with a hand on his head.

Cary, fist still tightly clenched, stands over the dazed Frink as Bill

brightens considerably and wipes his hands with delight.

Francis exits uncertainly.

Cary exits. Bill and Shep haul Frink to his feet.

Nikki watches Bill and Shep lead Frink out the door.

INT. CARY'S COMPARTMENT - A MOMENT LATER

Francis sits by the window, rubbing his head. Cary arrives and sits down next

to him. Cary takes Francis' water bottle and hands it to him.

Bill and Shep carry Frink in and dump him on the seat opposite Francis. Bill

walks off, wiping his hands happily. The others are grim, furious at Frink for

his actions. Shep watches a disgusted Francis soak his hand and sprinkle Frink

as if he were one of Nikki's turtles. Frink snaps out of his daze.

Francis pointedly sprinkles Frink one last time. They give each other a dark

look. Francis fingers the neck of the water bottle as if he were going to use

it to smash Frink in the face. As they glare ominously at one another, we

FADE IN

EXT. LISBON, PORTUGAL - DAY

Crowded city street. A superimposed title reads: LISBON

LISBON NIGHT MONTAGE

Cocktail shaker in the hands of an expert who shakes it rhythmically as

appropriate Latin MUSIC begins. This DISSOLVES TO a kaleidoscopic VIEW of our

protagonists enjoying the night life: Nikki's image dominates at the center,

surrounded by images of the men in dinner clothes. Everyone drinks, except

Frink who smokes a cigarette and stares, desirous and snakelike, presumably at

Nikki.

DISSOLVE TO Nikki and her war birds (minus Frink) seated at a bar in an

otherwise empty club late at night, wearing goofy party hats. They swallow a

last drink and start to leave -- laughing, talking, merrily blowing little

party horns, taking a bottle or two with them, and waving to an unseen

bartender as they go. Someone says, "Good night." We TRACK IN for a closer

look at the bar, covered with many empty glasses.

And the music and the montage end.

INT. CARY AND SHEP'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Cary, wearing a robe, sees Shep still asleep in bed. Cary puts on a party hat,

sits on the edge of his own bed opposite Shep's, picks up a party horn and

blows into it, hard. The horn SQUEALS horribly. Shep wakes with a start and

sits up in bed, completely unnerved. Cary laughs at him and, with his clenched

hands, picks up a bottle.

Shep groans and sighs as Cary hands him a glass with his fists.

Cary looks at Shep, amused.

Cary lets the goofy hat fall off his head into his hand and sets it aside.

By now, Shep has polished off his drink. He sets down the empty glass.

Shep, excited, gets out from under the bedcovers.

Shep rises and walks off.

Cary watches him go and blows his party horn, wryly.

EXT. ARENA - DAY

A bugler blows his own horn, grandly, while standing before colorful bull-

fight posters that read: CORRIDA DE TOUROS

A crowd files in under an arched entranceway. Our little group enters, dressed

for a day at the fights.

And, sure enough, the words over a decorated archway read: PRACA DE TOUROS

A friendly, English-speaking Portuguese man named Pedro overhears this and

joins them.

Pedro leads and they happily follow.

INT. THE BAR - MINUTES LATER

Led by their guide, Pedro, the group files in and lines up at the bar. A tiny,

extremely drunken old man is the only other customer.

Nikki and Cary stand together at the bar.

Bill, glass raised, proposes a toast. On the wall behind him is the shadow of

the drunken old man, standing in roughly the same pose.

As Bill drinks, the old man's shadow wobbles forward. Bill hears the sound of

liquid SPATTERING. He stops drinking and looks puzzled.

A stream of liquid pours down onto Bill's right foot, soaking his sock and shoe.

Bill turns to find the drunken old man leaning at an unsteady angle, the

alcohol spilling steadily out of a glass in the man's hand and onto Bill's

foot.

The others, lined up at the bar, see this and laugh. The drunken old man

brushes some lint off Bill's jacket as Bill shakes his pant leg, amused.

Band MUSIC plays. Cary looks up, concerned.

The group hurriedly finish and exit. Shep pays the tab. Bill, followed by the

old man, shakes his pant leg and limps along after the others.

EXT. ARENA - MINUTES LATER

The crowd CHEERS and the band PLAYS as a parade of matadors, picadors and

banderilleros enters the ring.

Led by their guide, Pedro, the group takes seats in the front row, back of the

trenches. They have to sit close down so Nikki can see things. The drunken old

man from the bar tags along behind Bill like a puppy dog and tries to sit next

to him but Pedro pointedly directs him to a seat in the second row.

When Bill rises to cheer the parade, the drunken old man also rises and taps

him affectionately on the shoulder. Bill turns and greets him pleasantly,

shaking his hand.

The old man tips his hat to Bill and sits. Bill shakes his pant leg and gives

the old man a wry look before also sitting.

IN THE RING

The parade ends. A matador throws his montera (his black woolen hat) into the

crowd.

IN THE FRONT ROW

Cary catches the hat, much to the group's delight -- they shout "Hooray!"

Immediately, a cape is hurled at Bill who drapes it over the railing before

them. Cary offers the hat to Nikki.

A trumpet FANFARE. The crowd CHEERS. Bill points, excited.

IN THE RING

A bull charges into view. Bull-fighter and bull face off. The bull makes ten

passes, faster and closer each time.

IN THE FRONT ROW

Bill sits next to Pedro.

Bill scoffs and waves dismissively. Cary leans in with a query.

IN THE RING

Bull-fighter and bull continue their duel. Finally, the bull gets the

advantage and others must rush in to distract the bull.

IN THE FRONT ROW

Bill is unimpressed.

Full of himself, Bill nods.

Everyone suddenly stares in shock as:

IN THE RING

the bull knocks down the matador. Others rush in to distract the bull which

runs wild, out of control.

IN THE FRONT ROW

Frink nudges Francis awake and points out the carnage in the ring. Francis

glances at the spectacle briefly and then sleepily applauds. Frink gives him a

look and nudges him to stop clapping. Francis simply goes back to sleep.

WILD BULL MONTAGE

The toreros try to control the bull but it refuses to cooperate.

The crowd watches intently. Bill takes off his own hat and picks up the

matador's cap that Cary had caught.

Toreros scramble and run for their lives. The bull chases them down, runs

across the ring, forcing them to jump the barrera, the protective wooden

barrier that circles the inside of the arena.

Bill, now wearing the cap, can't resist leaning over and mocking a group of

toreros who huddle in the callejon, the safe side of the barrier, just below

him.

The toreros look up at Bill in surprise. One of them responds in Portuguese

with a gesture toward the ring, as if to ask "If it's so easy, why don't you

try it?" The other toreros laugh.

Bill stares into the ring, a savage look in his eyes. He puts a leg up on the

railing.

He jumps down into the ring.

Cary rises, stunned.

But it is too late. Bill's coat is already off and he waves it like a cape as

he stalks after the bull.

The bull turns and sees him.

Bill moves toward it, waving his coat and grinning like a madman.

Shep is frozen. Beside him, Nikki screams and turns away.

The bull begins to charge.

Cary climbs over the railing.

The bull charges.

TRACK FAST TOWARD Bill who holds the coat before him -- big eyes, big grin.

The bull is on him. The bull roars.

Bill's face snaps backward in a blur, his coat follows.

The bull gores him through his coat. His face twists in pain.

CUT WIDE as the bull knocks Bill's body around the ring like a rag doll. He

hits the ground hard. Screams from the crowd.

Four toreros rush in.

They surround and distract the bull. Bill lies motionless.

Cary runs across the ring.

More toreros and others rush in, surrounding the bull, finally leading away.

In the front row, Shep, Nikki, Francis, Frink and Pedro watch with concern as

....

... toreros converge on Bill and try to move his body. Cary joins them.

But Bill is unconscious. A torero says something to Cary in Portuguese. Cary

and the others lift Bill.

They carry Bill off.

INT. ARENA INFIRMARY - MINUTES LATER

A group of toreros straighten their gleaming spangled jackets and walk off to

reveal Cary standing over a bloodied Bill and holding his hand as medical

personnel prepare to operate. Bill lies flat on a table and smiles, amused

with himself.

Bill breaks off and raises his head to look at the doctor off screen.

To distract him, Cary pulls out a handkerchief and mops Bill's brow which

glistens with sweat.

Bill breaks off and raises himself up again.

Cary gently eases Bill's head back down.

Pedro escorts Shep (in his dark eyeglasses again) and Nikki into the room. The

doctor, in surgical gear, puts on gloves and looks annoyed by the intrusion.

The doctor has some sharp words for Pedro who acknowledges this and approaches

the others:

Pedro exits.

Nikki places a hand on his head.

She turns away, trying not to cry. Shep follows her as they leave.

Shep follows Nikki out.

Bill reaches up and pats Cary on the shoulder. Cary looks at the doctor, then

at Bill, before retreating to the door. He turns to look back at Bill who

grins at him.

Cary can't return the smile. He turns and goes, closing the door behind him.

Bill's attention turns to the doctor whose approaching shadow is cast on the

wall behind him. Bill's smile fades.

EXT. ARENA - MOMENTS LATER

Cary emerges and joins the group who are gathered glumly on some steps.

Nikki, emotionally fragile, hands Cary his hat.

As Frink and Francis exit with Nikki, Pedro approaches Cary with a couple of

journalists.

Cary looks off and thinks for a moment.

Pedro stares at Cary in astonishment. Cary joins Shep and the two of them

stand with their backs to the others as we

EXT. CARNIVAL - NIGHT

The amusement park at Port Mayer. Crowds, carnival NOISES, a carousel with

appropriate MUSIC.

At a nearby refreshment stand, we find the group, minus Bill. Everyone is

unusually silent and wearing dinner clothes. Francis holds a mug upside-down.

Frink leers at Nikki who ignores him while she, Shep and Cary down their

drinks. They hear:

GUNSHOTS.

They look over to see:

A little shooting gallery where customers rent genuine guns to shoot various

colorful targets and win prizes.

The group starts over to:

THE SHOOTING GALLERY

where an assortment of rifles and pistols are neatly laid out. Cary and Shep

escort Nikki to the arsenal while Frink and Francis tag along behind. An

attendant joins them to collect their money and ready their weapons.

Shep FIRES and misses the moving cats that float across the base of the range

on an endless chain and disappear. But he hits a tinier target: a clay pipe

behind them.

Shep's eyes pop with surprise.

Cary laughs at him.

Cary takes careful aim.

He FIRES and hits a ball balanced atop a stream of water.

Nikki awkwardly raises her little target rifle to her shoulder. The end of the

barrel describes uncertain circles in the air. A multiple exposure point-of-

view shot of the targets reveals that Nikki is a little too tipsy to be

handling a gun. Cary moves to help her.

Rapid GUNSHOTS. Cary looks up in surprise. He and Shep turn to watch in

amazement as Francis cuts loose with an automatic rifle, shattering a whole

row of pipes with split-second firing.

The others cheer as Francis lowers the weapon and stares moodily at an

astonished and, apparently, very drunk Frink. Cary takes this moment to

encourage Nikki.

She again tries unsuccessfully to hold the rifle steady. Amused, Frink picks

up a pistol and imitates her.

Cary sees Frink pointing his gun at Nikki and moves to intervene, grabbing

Frink's wrist with both hands.

Shep and Francis move to shield Nikki.

Frink violently pulls free of Cary's grasp and, as he does, the gun goes off

with a BANG. Francis hurries Nikki to safety in the opposite direction. Shep

backs away, clutching his side -- for a moment, it looks very much as if he's

been hit. Cary pursues and confronts Frink.

Frink backs up to a nearby lamp post and, wielding the pistol, points it at

Cary. His face is tense, savage.

A nervous crowd of passersby pauses to watch the showdown.

Frink, drunk and frustrated, starts to lose it completely.

Frink cocks the hammer.

Cary moves slowly toward Frink.

Frink and Cary are less than a yard apart.

GUNSHOTS. Cary flinches. Frink drops the pistol, his face twisted in pain. He

starts to fall.

Nearby, Francis coolly FIRES his rifle, pumping seven bullets into Frink.

Members of the crowd SCREAM in terror. Instinctively, Shep (still clutching

his side) and Nikki each put a restraining hand on Francis' arm. Francis

lowers the rifle, staring in horror and amazement at what he's just done.

Cary rushes over and pulls the rifle out of Francis' hands.

Francis snaps out of his trance as Cary hurriedly returns the rifle to the

gallery. Shep and Nikki watch, stunned, as Francis immediately moves to Cary

and shakes his hand.

Francis turns to Shep and Nikki for equally heartfelt handshakes, an odd look

on his face.

They realize he is saying a final goodbye. The crowd presses in as Francis

glances back at Frink before turning and hurrying off.

As a huge crowd rushes in the direction of the shooting gallery, Francis

threads his way through it in the opposite direction and, with only the

briefest glance backward, rounds a corner to disappear behind a building.

Cary stares at Frink's body as the gathering crowd streams into view, then

quickly starts to lead a shaken Shep and Nikki away from the shooting gallery.

They slip through the thick fringe of excited people fast gathering in front

of the shooting gallery and hurry off in the same direction as Francis who is

now:

BEHIND THE CARNIVAL BUILDINGS

on a dark, deserted street. Distant crowd NOISE and carnival MUSIC drifts in.

Under the light of a street lamp on the edge of the carnival, Francis strolls

casually into view and swings a leg over a slackly hung boundary rope, pausing

to glance backward. He sees ...

... Cary, Shep and Nikki as they round the corner and pause, a little

breathless, to lean against a wall. Shep, his fist still at his side, slumps

weakly as Cary and Nikki stare at ...

... Francis who briefly makes eye contact and then, without a word, turns,

steps over the rope and, pulling his jacket collar up around his neck, walks

off, instantly swallowed up by the darkness.

Cary and Nikki stare after him, astonished.

Shep leans weakly against the wall, his eyes glassy.

Cary quickly moves to a signal a cab parked nearby. Nikki rests a sympathetic

hand on Shep.

THE BACK SEAT OF THE TAXI CAB - MOMENTS LATER

As the cab jolts down an uneven street and drives slowly through the crowded

carnival, the MUSIC continues. Cary and Shep sit on either side of Nikki. Cary

is as edgy as Shep is subdued.

Nikki takes out a cigarette.

As Shep puts his hand in his inside jacket pocket to pull out his cigarette

lighter, a strange look crosses his face.

Shep pulls out the lighter and flicks it on -- revealing bloodstains on his

white shirt. Nikki stares down at the blood in horror.

Nikki jumps up and moves away from Shep, into a seat opposite.

Cary turns to Shep, who slumps back weakly against his seat with a strange

look of release and satisfaction on his face.

Cary examines Shep, reaching in to feel his bloody wound.

Shep puts a hand on Cary's arm as the taxi continues to jolt along down the

street.

Urgently, Cary reaches over and bangs on the glass between themselves and the

cab driver.

In front of the carnival's slowly revolving carousel, the cab rolls to a stop.

The carousel MUSIC drifts in. Shep hardly moves -- head back, blank eyes

staring, voice dreamy and weak. Cary puts his face close to Shep's, listening

intently.

Nikki, seated opposite, is distraught.

Shep's head slumps down. His face presses against Cary's shoulder.

Cary can't look at him. Eyes wide, Cary slowly presses his cheek to Shep's.

Cary looks as if he is on the verge of tears. And yet he cannot bring himself

to cry.

FADE IN

EXT. TRAIN WHEELS

ROAR down a railroad track.

INT. TRAIN COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

Nikki cranks her portable phonograph, turns it on and puts the needle to the

record -- Toselli's "Serenade," that strange, sad composition that haunted

Europe at the close of the Great War.

As the bittersweet romantic music plays, she listens for a moment. Then she

turns and sidles over to sit next to Cary who is seated by the window,

scribbling something on a piece of paper beside a small lamp.

Nikki reads the letter silently. A long pause.

Nikki turns away and begins to cry, quietly.

Cary puts aside the letter.

He takes her hand, looks at her affectionately.

He kisses her hand. A strange, apprehensive look crosses her face as she turns

her hand over in his hands and opens it -- to reveal a heart-shaped stone.

Cary looks at her in surprise.

She lowers her eyes for a moment, then looks at him.

He gives her an uncomprehending look but then breaks into a smile as she

buries her head lovingly in his shoulder. He kisses her hand again.

THE TRAIN

in a dark, bleak landscape as it chugs away down the track.

THE END

