FADE IN:

EXT. PRISON CEMETERY -- DAY

A handful of people are gathered in an open field under a

fierce Mississippi sun. A couple of young inmates, JAKE and

LEON, lean on their shovels. They are waiting to bury two

identical CASKETS with inmate numbers stenciled on the

pinewood lids.

A GUARD rests the butt of his rifle on the ground and takes

a long, healthy pull from his canteen. He offers it to the

PRISON CHAPLAIN, who is much obliged. SUPERINTENDENT BILL

BURKE, a 40-year-old black man, glances at his watch and

loosens his tie. Sure is hot.

MARY HUMPHRIES, an elderly white woman in a nurse's uniform,

stands behind WILLIE LONG, an ancient inmate sleeping

peacefully in a wheelchair. She readjusts an umbrella to

shield the old black man from the blistering sun.

Burke dabs his forehead with a handkerchief. He gives the

nod to the chaplain, who steps forward and cracks his bible.

The men remove their hats.

The young inmates plunge their shovels into the dirt. One by

one, the mourners head back toward a prison van parked on a

nearby dirt road.

She leaves Willie alone with Jake and Leon. He rolls his

chair up to the edge of the graves and gazes at the pinewood

caskets.

Willie pulls a bottle of moonshine from his jacket and takes

a swig in their honor.

Willie passes the bottle to Leon, who takes a swig and winces

from the unexpected kick.

Willie holds up the bottle, checking the clarity of the

liquor.

EXT. SPANKY'S BACK ALLEY (1932) -- NIGHT

RAY GIBSON holds up a similar bottle of liquor to a light

over a door. Music comes from within. He takes a swig and

stashes the bottle in his belt. He adjusts his tie, polishes

his shoes on the back of his pants and raps on the door.

INT. SPANKY'S -- NIGHT

The speakeasy is jumping, jammed with people. Up on stage a

hot JAZZ BAND is playing backup for a seductive CHANTEUSE.

Well-heeled PATRONS enter through doors near the stage.

In the back, at the end of a long hallway, a BOUNCER cracks

open the door and Ray squeezes inside.

Ray heads inside.

Ray slides through the crowd, pausing at the bar to nibble

on the neck of a COCKTAIL WAITRESS.

She carries a tray of drinks into the crowd. Ray shakes his

head in wonderment at her departing form. The BARKEEP steps

up as Ray pulls out his bottle.

Disregarding the warning, Ray tilts the bottle back. Shaking

his head, the barkeep moves on to a paying customer. Ray's

eyes follow a bottle of French Champagne as it is delivered

to a nearby table.

Here sits the straight-laced CLAUDE BANKS with his girlfriend,

DAISY. She's enjoying the show. He's polishing the silverware.

The WAITER pours two glasses of champagne and leaves the

bottle on ice. Claude regards his glass skeptically.

Daisy thinks she does. She leans in, eyes twinkling.

French Champagne shoots out of Claude's nose.

Claude leans in to kiss Daisy on the lips. She offers her

cheek. He departs.

OVER BY THE BAR

Ray watches Claude make a beeline for the men's room.

INT. MEN'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Claude steps into the bathroom and approaches the sink. A

big hand falls on his shoulder and yanks him backwards into

a stall...

INT. STALL -- NIGHT

Claude is shoved down on the toilet by two BAG MEN in suits.

Suddenly, it's crowded in here.

They rifle through Claude's jacket and quickly find his

wallet.

They toss back his empty wallet.

The stall door swings shut as the bag men depart.

INT. SPANKY'S -- NIGHT

On his way into the Men's Room, Ray squeezes past the bag

men on their way out.

INT. MEN'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Glancing around, Ray spots Claude's feet under the stall

door. He steps up to the sink, washes his hands and takes a

towel from the ATTENDANT. Scanning the assortment of grooming

products, he selects a bottle of cologne and takes a sniff.

As the attendent bends down to retrieve a bottle of the good

stuff, Ray palms a coin from the tip basket.

Ray offers the quarter, a gesture of uncommon generosity.

Ray pats the cologne on his face. A toilet flushes and Claude

steps over to the sink. Ray catches his eye in the mirror.

Ray throws his arms around Claude, deftly snatching his

wallet. Claude extracts himself from Ray's embrace.

Claude straightens his jacket and heads for the door. Ray

stashes the stolen wallet in his jacket.

INT. SPANKY'S -- NIGHT

On the stage, the chanteuse has downshifted into a sultry

number about back-door lovers and broken dreams.

Ray steps out of the men's room and is instantly collared by

BULLETHEAD, a man who makes his living being large and

threatening.

Pressed up against the wall, Ray reaches into his jacket and

produces Claude's wallet. Bullethead snatches it, inspects

it and is not impressed.

He stuffs the wallet back into Ray's jacket and hustles Ray

out the back door past the bouncer who let him in.

BACK AT CLAUDE'S TABLE

Claude returns to the table where Daisy is sipping champagne.

He takes the glass out of her hand.

The waiter presents Claude with the bill.

INT. VAN -- NIGHT

Claude is shoved into the back of the van and the doors are

slammed behind him. He bangs and shouts, but it's no use.

Ray is stretched out against the back wall. Claude is knocked

to the floor as the van lurches into motion.

Ray swigs from his bottle and offers it to Claude, who isn't

interested.

Busted, Claude snatches the bottle and carefully wipes off

the neck before tilting it high. Ray gets a good chuckle out

of this straight cat in the bow tie.

EXT. PIER -- NIGHT

The van pulls into a the loading bay of a warehouse at the

end of a short pier on the Harlem River.

INT. WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT

Bullethead and a HENCHMAN pull Ray and Claude from the back

of the van. They find themselves in a dark warehouse filled

with crates of contraband.

Claude shoves his hands under his armpits at the sound of

approaching FOOTSTEPS echoing across the vast space. Claude

and Ray peer into the darkness.

SPANKY JOHNSON emerges into the light. He uses a small silver

spoon to take an ample snort of cocaine into each nostril.

He glances at Claude.

Spanky holds up a hand, silencing Claude.

Claude protests loudly as Bullethead and the henchman bind

his hands and feet. Spanky turns to Ray.

The goons hoist Claude up on another pulley and dangle him

head first over a hole in the floor. Several feet down, the

Harlem River laps against the wooden pylons.

Shrugging, Ray pinches his nose and puffs out his cheeks.

The goons release the rope and Claude plunges into the water.

Spanky turns back to Ray.

The henchman yanks on the rope. Claude emerges from the hole,

gasping for breath.

The henchman releases the rope, sending Claude back into the

water. Ray reaches into his jacket. Bullethead pulls a gun

and presses it into Ray's temple. Ray gives him a look and

cautiously pulls out his bottle.

Ray tosses him the bottle. Spanky uncorks, sniffs, samples

the goods. He's impressed.

Once again, the henchman yanks on the rope and Claude comes

up sucking air desperately. He releases the rope, submerging

Claude for a third time.

Spanky considers the terms. Can he afford to trust Ray? Can

he afford not to?

Ray glances around. The pulley rope is still twitching in

the water.

Spanky sees Ray's point. He nods to the henchman, who hoists

Claude's limp body out of the water and onto the cement.

Spanky plants a foot on Claude's chest and applies pressure.

A geyser of Harlem River water shoots from Claude's mouth as

he sputters back to life.

THE SPINNING WHEEL OF A TRUCK

The CAMERA MOVES UP the side of the old Ford truck to find

Claude sitting pensively in the passenger seat.

INT. TRUCK (MOVING) -- NIGHT

Ray palms the wheel.

Tight-lipped, Claude shifts in his seat.

If Claude does like it, he's not letting on.

Beat of silence. Ray laughs to himself.

Ray pulls out his pocket watch. A mechanical tune plays as

he checks the time.

Ray stuffs his daddy's watch back in his pocket.

EXT. ROADSIDE DINER -- DAY

The truck veers off the highway and jerks to a halt in front

of the rundown establishment.

INT. ROADSIDE DINER -- DAY

A dozen WHITE FOLKS look up as Ray and Claude push through

the door.

Nothing but sullen stares from all corners of the room.

Claude tugs Ray towards the door but Ray won't be dissuaded.

He boldly addresses a YOUNG MAN in an apron behind the

counter.

Billy's MAMA sets a piping hot pie on the back counter and

steps up next to her son. She casts a disparaging glance at

Claude's suit.

Claude considers the sign she's pointing to.

Claude jabs him.

Claude starts tugging Ray toward the door.

Diner patrons stare.

Claude narrows his eyes.

Resolved, Claude stomps over to the counter.

Claude lays down a dollar bill. Mama casually pulls a shotgun

from under the counter.

Ray gives the whole place a cool once-over as Claude pulls

him out the door. Mama turns to Billy, still studying the

stitching on his shirt.

EXT. DOCKS -- NIGHT

The truck rolls up to the waters edge. Ray kills the engine

and flashes the lights twice. In the passenger seat, Claude

is fast asleep. After a few moments, a FAT MAN appears,

shining a flashlight into the cab.

Ray cocks an eyebrow.

EXT. DOCKS -- NIGHT

Under cover of darkness, a couple of MEN finish loading crates

into the bed of the truck. Ray and Claude keep their eyes

peeled for the law. Down by the river, they can see lights

and hear music from a district of rowdy juke joints. SLIM

steps up, wiping his hands.

Ray pulls out a wad and slaps it in Slim's sweaty palm. The

fat man starts counting it out.

Slim slips into the shadows.

A look of excitement crosses Claude's face, but he quickly

shakes it off.

Exasperated, Ray stuffs a few bills into Claude's pocket.

Left alone, Claude mutters and kicks at the dirt. He leans

against the truck.

UP AHEAD/EXT. JUKE JOINT -- NIGHT

Ray emerges from the woods and heads down the hill toward

the juke joint. Claude hustles up next to him.

INT. JUKE JOINT -- NIGHT

A ramshackle den of iniquity on the banks of the Mississippi.

The band is laying down some serious Delta blues, creating

an inviting atmosphere for sin and moral corruption.

On a far side of the room, Ray is playing poker with some

LOCALS. He seems to be having a bad night. WINSTON HANCOCK,

a formidable black man, sweeps in another big pot and puffs

happily on his cigar.

OVER AT THE BAR

Perched on a stool, Claude shoots a dark look at Ray and

motions for the door. Ray waves him off and returns to his

game. Claude becomes aware of a soft, young female hand on

his shoulder.

Against his better judgement, Claude's gaze follows the long,

slender arm up past a bare shoulder and settles on SYLVIA'S

angelic face. He is struck dumb.

The drinks arrive. She places a shot glass in Claude's

reluctant hand. She winks provocatively and slowly pours the

whiskey down her throat. Instinctively, Claude tosses back

his shot.

The bartender refills their glasses.

BACK AT THE POKER TABLE

Winston considers his cards, hardly looking up as a WAITRESS

lays down a cocktail napkin and sets a drink down on top of

it. He glances at Ray, who casually considers his cards.

The dealer tosses Ray a couple of cards.

INSERT -- Ray fans his cards to reveal a full house.

After considering the other players at the table, Ray pushes

what's left of his money into the center of the table. The

three other PLAYERS fold with disgust. Winston squints long

and hard at Ray, then pushes everything he has into the center

of the table.

Winston reaches into his jacket and throws down some more

money on the pile.

Ray checks his cards again. He looks at the pot, it's a lot

of money. With this hand, there's no way he can lose. He

places his daddy's pocket watch on top of the pile. Winston

checks the time piece.

Ray lays down his hand.

Ray sits back, stunned. Winston rakes in his winnings. The

game is over for the night. The three other players head to

the bar.

Winston tosses a silver dollar to Ray, who snatches it out

of the air. Winston drops his hat on his head and moves

through the crowd and out the door.

Ray shakes his head. Carefully, she begins to clear the table.

Suddenly, he grabs her wrist. Winston's glass tips over. Ray

flips over the cocktail napkin to reveal an extra pile of

cards.

EXT. JUKE JOINT -- NIGHT

Ray dashes into the street, glancing both ways. No sign of

Winston. Damn.

EXT. BACK ALLEY -- NIGHT

Winston produces Ray's pocket watch and pops it open. A smile

crosses his face as the mechanical tune plays.

A sheriff's sedan rounds a corner, illuminating Winston in

its headlights. The car pulls up and SHERIFF WARREN PIKE

steps out. Distinguished by a casual cruelness, he's a young

white man who loves his uniform.

Winston tries to move past Pike, but the sheriff blocks his

path with a night stick. As Winston backs off, another squad

car pulls up behind him. TWO DEPUTIES step from the car,

guns drawn.

Pike slams Winston with his club, sending the black man to

his knees. As Winston struggles back to his feet, a stiletto

flashes and he lunges for the sheriff, slashing his cheek.

The deputies grab Winston from behind, holding him by both

arms. The long knife clatters to ground. Pike touches his

face, examining the blood on his fingers.

INT. BORDELLO HALLWAY -- NIGHT

Ray walks slowly down the hallway to Room 13. He is about to

knock when he hears the sound of lovemaking from within.

INT. SYLVIA'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Ray opens the door and peeks in. Sylvia's on top and in

charge. Claude is concentrating real hard. Ray smiles to

himself and closes the door.

INT. JUKE JOINT -- NIGHT

Claude hitches up his suspenders as he comes down the stairs.

He finds Ray having a drink at the now-empty bar.

EXT. BACK ALLEY -- NIGHT

Ray and Claude head down the alley.

Suddenly, the bloodied figure of Winston Hancock lurches

from the shadows and grabs Claude by the lapels. Claude is

too scared to scream, staggering backward. But the man's

grip loosens and he slips to the ground.

Ray turns back to find Claude trembling with fear and covered

in blood. He just points down. Ray eyes widen. He kneels

down and turns Winston's body over.

Much to Claude's horror, Ray starts rifling through Winston's

pockets.

Suddenly, the glare of two bright headlights from a pickup

truck freeze Ray and Claude in a guilty tableau. FIVE WHITE

MEN appear at the end of the alley.

Ray gingerly releases Winston's lifeless body.

Claude and Ray hoist Winston's body to its feet. The man

raises his lantern, takes a closer look at Winston's face.

Ray and Claude check for themselves.

Suddenly, the men all have guns. And they're pointed at Ray

and Claude.

INT. NATCHEZ JAIL -- NIGHT

In a holding cell, Ray tests the window bars. Solid.

Meanwhile, Claude sits on a cot brooding darkly. Through the

bars, we see the rednecks laughing and passing around a bottle

of bootleg rum with the DEPUTY on duty.

The jailhouse door opens and Sheriff Pike walks in. He pauses

to give the prisoners the once-over. There's a fresh bandage

over the cut on his cheek.

Pike winks at his deputy, then turns to regard the prisoners.

Pike turns his back on the prisoners and checks the time on

a gold pocket watch -- Ray's pocket watch. But from his cell,

Ray can't hear the mechanical tune.

In the cell, Claude turns to Ray.

INT. COURTROOM -- DAY

The CAMERA Scorseses in on the JUDGE'S face...

The gavel comes down with a thundering crash. Stunned, Ray

and Claude resist the BAILIFFS' efforts to remove them from

the courtroom.

They continue to protest loudly as they are dragged bodily

through the door.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE -- DAY

Blues music kicks in as a prison transport bus rolls down a

dirt road cutting through the bleak Mississippi Delta.

INT. BUS (MOVING) -- DAY

LONG-CHAIN CHARLIE, a white prison sergeant, sits behind the

wheel. A shot gun hangs within easy reach.

The CAMERA MOVES BACK past grim-faced PRISONERS with their

hands and feet shackled. We arrive at Ray and Claude sitting

in grim silence as the bus lurches along.

EXT. PRISON -- DAY

The bus veers off the country road and passes under a sign:

MISSISSIPPI STATE PENITENTIARY. Sgt. Dillard's voice PLAYS

OVER.

Ray and Claude stare out the window, getting their first

look at the harsh reality that awaits them. Cotton fields

stretch to the horizon in every direction. HOE-GANGS till

the earth under the watchful gaze of TRUSTY SHOOTERS...

Along the road, CONVICTS cast hard looks at the new men as

the cart passes. A WHITE SERGEANT on horseback shifts his

rifle and casually spits tobacco juice in the dirt...

EXT. CAMP 8 -- DAY

A low-slung, single-story bunkhouse surrounded by a dirt

yard. Two shooter shacks sit at diagonal corners of the yard.

In each shack, two trusties with rifles keep vigilant watch

over the camp. SGT. FRED DILLARD paces down the line of new

men as HOPPIN' BOB, an uncommonly ugly trusty, unlocks their

leg irons.

Dillard plucks a hat off one of the new prisoners and tosses

it over the gun line. SHOTS ring out from the nearest shack.

The hat is torn to shreds.

Dillard puts a cigarette in his mouth. Hoppin' Bob is right

there with the flame.

Nodding to Bob, Dillard saunters off.

Ray and Claude share a look. Self-consciously, the men begin

to undress.

INT. BUNKHOUSE -- DAY

Double bunks line the walls, with a footlocker for each

inmate. As usual, there's a poker game going on.

All activity comes to a halt as the new men shuffle into the

cage wearing their prison-issue "ring-arounds." Hoppin' Bob

slams the metal doors shut behind them.

The INCORRIGIBLES hungrily eye the new men in total silence.

Claude sticks close to Ray as they shuffle toward their

assigned bunks. The CAMERA SETTLES on a much younger WILLIE

LONG.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- MORNING

The inmates jump down from the mule cart and grab hoes and

shovels. Because he can't count, Hoppin' Bob keeps track of

the men using a system all his own -- a PEBBLE in his pocket

for each man. Dillard stands by with his shotgun.

EXT. DITCH -- DAY

The men of Camp 8 labor under the brutal mid-day sun. JANGLE

LEG, a handsome, muscular man, sings a verse to set the work

tempo. Up and down the line, a mighty chorus responds. The

CAMERA FINDS Ray and Claude swinging pick axes, sweating

profusely.

Claude stops to catch his breath and take off his shirt.

A SHOT rings out. Claude hits the ground as a bullet kicks

up some dust nearby.

Claude looks up to see Dillard cracking pistachio nuts as

Hoppin' Bob puts another round in the chamber of his rifle.

Annoyed, Dillard jabs the butt of his rifle into Ray's solar

plexus. Ray sinks to his knees in the dirt.

Dillard swaggers off, dogged at the heels by the ever faithful

Hoppin' Bob. Resigned, Ray and Claude return to their labor.

EXT. DITCH -- DAY

The men rest in the ditch as BISCUIT, a slight inmate with a

red bandanna tied around his head, dispenses water, one ladle

per man.

Willie exchanges two cigarettes for a second ladle. POKER

FACE pulls a crumpled envelope from his shirt. His expression

never changes, hence the name.

Ray unfolds the letter and scans it.

The prisoners express their condolences. "Sorry, man." "That's

some bad news." "I know you loved Bo like a brother..."

More sympathy from the men. "Ooh. Twice in one letter." "Rough

break, Poker Face..."

Relief all around. "Thank goodness."

"Bad luck, man." "That's harsh..."

The prisoners share dark looks. Ray folds up the letter and

hands it back to Poker Face.

"No, man, we're good." The men shake their heads and return

letters and cards to their pockets. Jangle Leg nods and

switches places with one of the convicts, parking next to

Claude.

As they shake, Jangle Leg inspects Claude's hand thoroughly.

Claude snatches back his hand and gives Jangle Leg a hard

look.

As the men grab their tools and return to work, Claude leans

over to Ray.

INT. MESS HALL -- DUSK

Wincing with each movement and covered in grime from the

day's labors, the new men bring up the back of the chow line.

COOKIE, the grub-slinger, slaps a large dollop of an

unidentifiable substance onto Ray's tray.

Another prisoner lays down some tobacco and gets a juicy

steak. Ray grabs a hunk of corn bread and makes his way to

the back of the room. Claude steps up, holds out his tray

for Cookie.

Disappointed, Claude turns to discover that the only seat

left is next to Ray. Scowling, he limps toward it.

Jangle Leg's eyes follow Claude as he approaches the table.

Biscuit smacks him.

Claude sits down and promptly goes to work scraping his burnt

toast with his knife. The irritating sound slowly brings the

entire room to dead silence. All eyes fall on Claude. Scratch,

scratch, scratch...

Cookie glowers and takes a seat.

As the room returns to normal, Claude starts polishing his

fork with his shirttail. Irritated, Ray shoots him a look.

Undeterred, Claude breathes on his fork and polishes it some

more. Disgusted, Ray pushes aside his plate.

The whole table waits expectantly for their reply.

At the end of the table, GOLDMOUTH, a hulking specimen, snarls

menacingly, flashing a glittering set of teeth.

Just then, Goldmouth stands up, casting a shadow over Claude.

Claude looks up, considering his options.

Ray picks up his corn bread and takes a huge bite out of it,

rolling his eyes with enthusiasm.

Ray looks at the faces around the room, smiles broadly.

Goldmouth is getting embarrassed.

The prisoners begin to laugh. Ray's got them now.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DUSK

A punch sends Ray sprawling in the dust. Goldmouth looms

over him. The incorrigibles form a circle around the

combatants. Poker Face, the camp bookie, is taking all bets.

Goldmouth and Ray square off. Goldmouth swings, Ray ducks

and counters with a swift jab to the gut. Goldmouth just

flashes a shiny grin and clobbers Ray with a fist the size

of a Thanksgiving turkey. Ray sinks to the dust. Radio drops

down near him.

Ray shakes his head and staggers back to his feet. He circles

the big man and gets in a couple of good shots, much to the

crowd's approval. Goldmouth shakes his head and wipes the

blood from his nose. Now he's mad. He grabs Ray by the shirt

and delivers a crushing blow. Ray reels backward into Cookie's

arms.

Cookie shoves Ray back into the ring for more punishment.

Claude emerges from the mess hall, munching on a piece of

corn bread. He squeezes in between Poker Face and Willie.

Just then Claude winces as Goldmouth delivers a jaw-crushing

uppercut that knocks Ray on his back. Claude bristles under

the incriminating looks coming at him from all directions.

Claude crouches down as Ray rolls over on his stomach and

pushes himself up onto all fours. His eyes are swollen shut,

his face covered with blood.

Ray manages a smile and staggers to his feet.

Goldmouth pulls back his fist and lets it fly. Ray hurtles

through the crowd, collapsing in the dust. Willie steps in.

Cookie, Radio and Poker Face raise Ray to his feet. Goldmouth

slings him over his shoulder and carries him toward the

bunkhouse. Dazed, Ray catches Claude's eye.

A quick elbow jab from Goldmouth and Ray is out for good.

Disgusted with himself, Claude tosses what's left of the

corn bread to the mangy dog, who makes short work of it.

INT. MESS HALL -- DAY

On Sundays, the mess hall also serves as a chapel. From a

makeshift pulpit, the blind REVEREND CLAY and his DAUGHTER

lead the congregation of convicts in a rousing chorus of

"Down by the Riverside."

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

The gospel music filters into the yard, where the prisoners

mingle with kinfolk.

EXT. SGT. DILLARD'S HOUSE -- DAY

MRS. DILLARD hums along with the gospel music as she places

a couple of freshly-baked pies on the window sill to cool.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

The CAMERA FINDS Claude and Daisy walking hand in hand toward

a simple shack just beyond the gun line. This is the TONK

HOUSE and Dillard is the gate keeper.

Dillard considers Daisy.

Daisy gets the picture. She reaches into her purse and hands

Dillard a couple of dollars.

Claude takes Daisy's hand and leads her over the gun line.

ACROSS THE YARD

Ray watches Claude and Daisy step into the tonk house. Then

he returns to a game of horseshoes, tossing a ringer. Nearby,

Biscuit gives Jangle Leg a haircut.

Radio looks up from a vacuum tube receiver he's busy

repairing.

Hoppin' Bob calls to Ray from the gun line.

Ray turns to find his MOTHER, a handsome woman in a floral

dress, coming toward him.

The incorrigibles elbow each other and repeat the name

"Rayford" as Mama Gibson envelops her son in a fleshy embrace,

smothering him with kisses.

The motley crew gathers around, nodding politely. Goldmouth

flashes a golden grin. Willie gallantly doffs his cap.

Mama manages a half-hearted smile, clutching her bag.

Biscuit sides up, fingering her dress.

EXT. PORCH -- DAY

Ray and his mama sit in the shade.

A long, uncomfortable beat. Mama's lip starts to tremble.

She puts some money in his hand.

Reluctantly, Ray stashes the money in his pocket.

INT. TONK HOUSE -- DAY

Reclining on a straw mattress, Claude watches intently as

Daisy gets dressed. The rickety door reverberates with a

loud pounding.

Claude leaps from the bed and slams his fist against the

door.

Daisy quickly buttons up her dress.

Daisy smiles weakly and looks away. She doesn't have much

faith in this promise.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY

The prisoners jump down from the cart and grab hammers and

pick axes as Hoppin' Bob keeps count with pebbles.

Ray and Claude jump down after Willie.

EXT. FIELD -- DAY

The long line levels a road to a work tune being sung by

Jangle Leg.

Dillard checks the thermometer on the truck -- 90 degrees

and rising. Mopping his brow, he starts down the line.

The sun arcs overhead, a blazing inferno... Heat rises off

the road... The men sweat profusely... "Taking it off here,

boss!" echoes up and down the line.

Biscuit has his work cut out for him, lugging a water bucket

from man to man, offering the ladle.

The sun... the hammer... the ladle... the axe... the sun...

the hammer... the ladle... the axe... The mercury hits 110

degrees...

A NEW GUY lets his hammer slip from his fingers, collapses

in the dirt. Radio nods to Poker Face, who hands him a pack

of cigs.

Dillard uses his foot to roll the stricken man over. He's

still alive. Barely.

Ray and Claude drop their tools, grab the man by his arms

and legs and lug him up to the road. Once out of earshot,

Ray whispers to Claude.

They reach the truck. With effort, they swing the man back

and forth and launch him into the back of the truck.

INT. BUNKHOUSE WASHROOM -- DAY

Ray and Claude continue their conversation as they lather up

for a shave.

Claude splits. Scowling, Ray finishes up his shave.

INT. BUNKHOUSE -- NIGHT

Moonlight streams through the barred windows of the cage.

Exhausted from the day's work, each man stretches out

painfully in his bunk.

Restless, Radio rolls over.

"Shut up, Claude!" echoes around the room. Irritated, Claude

thumps his pillow and turns his back on the room.

BLAM! A high horn note sounds.

CLOSE-UP -- Biscuit, all dolled up and flashing a million-

dollar smile. She begins to sing.

Biscuit is up on a makeshift platform in the bunkhouse,

lipsyncing to Ella Fitzgerald. But its not the depressing

bunkhouse anymore, it has transformed into Ray's Boom-Boom

Room. PULL OUT SLOWLY as Ray, decked out in a sleek tuxedo

steps in front of the CAMERA. He speaks into the CAMERA as

he walks...

Ray looks to his left, sees Goldmouth in the old bunkhouse.

The CAMERA PANS off Ray to Goldmouth, in a tuxedo, at the

front door of the nightclub with two lovely ladies. He waves

to himself, sitting on his bunk. Himself waves back, smiling

like a kid in a candy store.

Willie is behind the bar, serving drinks to three gorgeous

SKIMMIES.

CLOSE ON Cookie sitting a table eating a huge porterhouse.

The CAMERA DOLLIES around to find Ray eating with him.

Ray motions to a busboy clearing a table. It's Claude.

Claude grimaces.

Willie laughing, Goldmouth laughing, Poker Face in the bunk

laughing.

Ray at a craps table holding a pair of dice. He looks at

Poker Face on his bunk.

The CAMERA PULLS BACK as Ray throws the dice. A perfect seven.

The CAMERA PANS UP to Poker Face in a tux clutching a fistful

of cash.

Across the room, Jangle Leg, in a tux, sits at the piano.

Radio, also in a tux, beats on the drums.

Biscuit sings the song, smiling lovingly at her man. Everyone

is having a great time in Ray's Boom-Boom Room, until...

Whistles blow. At the front door, Hoppin' Bob appears with

FIVE TRUSTIES dressed in police outfits. The incorrigibles

scatter.

A hard white light from Hoppin' Bob's flashlight shines

directly into the CAMERA.

CLOSE ON Ray, in his bed, back in the old bunkhouse. The

music stops abruptly. He shields his eyes from the harsh

light. Hoppin' Bob is looming over him. It's back to reality.

A loud burst of flatulence cuts through the darkness. Hoppin'

Bob turns his flashlight on Cookie.

Scowling, Hoppin' Bob steps out of the cage and locks the

door behind him. The men slowly settle back in.

Lights out at Camp 8.

EXT. CAMP 8 -- YARD -- DAY

Claude's playing pepper with Radio, Jangle Leg and Poker

Face.

The incorrigibles quickly gather around as he calls off names,

passing cards and letters through the crowd.

Dillard hands the letter to Ray, who glances at it before

passing it back to Claude.

INT. CAMP 8 BUNKHOUSE -- DAY

Claude rips open the letter. A profound disappointment settles

over him as he reads the news from cousin Maynard. Bitterly,

he crumples up the letter and tosses it down.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

Dillard strolls down the line with his rifle over his

shoulder. Under his watchful gaze, hoes rise and fall. After

he passes, Claude moves a little closer to Ray.

A long beat.

Ray gets in Claude's face and silently mouths the word --

"soft." Claude throws down his hoe and sinks his fist deep

into Ray's gut.

Ray touches the blood coming from his nose. Eyes blazing, he

tackles Claude, dragging him to the ground. The two men roll

around, trying to strangle each other.

Hoppin' Bob hustles down the hill and drags Ray off of Claude.

But Claude comes back for more. Hoppin' Bob finds himself in

the middle of the fray.

That's when the cavalry arrives. Two trusties use their rifles

to crack Ray and Claude over the backs of their heads, sending

them both down for the count.

Hoppin' Bob empties his canteen over their faces. They sputter

back to consciousness.

Ray and Claude stagger to their feet and pick up their tools.

Hoppin' Bob and the trusties head back up the hill. Ray starts

to chuckle.

Ray opens his palm to reveal TWO PEBBLES. Claude regards Ray

with new-found respect.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- SUNDOWN

One by one, the prisoners of Camp 8 climb into the mule carts

under the watchful eye of Hoppin' Bob. As each man passes,

he removes a pebble from his pocket. The last one in is

Willie. Hoppin' Bob's pocket is now empty.

Dillard spurs his horse, escorting the mule carts back to

camp.

EXT. FIELD -- SUNDOWN

As the carts fade into the distance, Ray and Claude pop up

from a roadside ditch and take off for a grove of trees in

the opposite direction.

EXT. WOODS -- SUNDOWN

Running for all they're worth, Ray and Claude crash through

the bramble. Claude trips over a root and sprawls face first

in the bushes. Ray turns around and helps him to his feet.

Claude is still laughing giddily. He throws his arms around

Ray.

As Ray and Claude disappear into the woods...

INT. BUNKHOUSE -- NIGHT

Radio's pulling in some jazz music out of New Orleans.

Prisoners hit their bunks as the floorwalker does the nightly

head count. He stops at Claude and Ray's empty bunks, glancing

around, puzzled.

EXT. DILLARD'S PORCH -- NIGHT

Dillard smokes a cigarette on the swing. His wife steps out

with a fresh bourbon and ice. Suddenly, SIRENS start to wail

and emergency floodlights blaze to life at Camp 8.

EXT. FIELD -- NIGHT

Hounds scramble down from the back of a truck and gather

around the DOG BOY. He holds out a handful of soiled laundry

and a dozen snouts sniff it thoroughly.

Nearby, Dillard gathers a DOZEN MEN with rifles and

flashlights into a posse. He puts a cigarette in his mouth.

Hoppin' Bob lights it for him.

EXT. WOODS -- NIGHT

Trees rise ominously around Ray and Claude as they push

through dense underbrush.

Claude considers it from various angles.

Ray shrugs and presses on. Dumbfounded, Claude considers the

map again, then tears it to shreds. The braying of hounds

echoes through the trees.

EXT. THE WOODS -- NIGHT

Ray and Claude race through the underbrush.

EXT. THE WOODS -- NIGHT

Dillard and his men follow the dogs through the woods, hot

on the scent.

EXT. THE WOODS -- NIGHT

Ray and Claude race up to a chain-link fence. On the other

side, an old Ford is parked on a dirt road. Hearing the posse

closing in behind them, Ray and Claude fling themselves onto

the fence.

EXT. THE WOODS -- NIGHT

The posse is gaining ground. Dillard takes two men off to

the left, sending the rest of the men straight ahead.

EXT. THE WOODS -- NIGHT

Claude clears the fence first and scrambles for the old Ford.

Ray's shirt snags on a piece of wire as he drops down from

the fence. Stuck, he dangles helplessly a few feet off the

ground.

INT. FORD -- NIGHT

Claude yanks open the door and jumps behind the wheel. TWO

WHITE TEENAGERS bolt up in the backseat where they were

necking. After a beat -- group scream. The half-dressed

teenagers dive from the car and scramble off down the road.

Claude twists the key in the ignition and the engine roars

to life.

Claude sees Ray caught up on the fence, then hears the sounds

of the approaching posse. If he floored it right now, he

might make it. But he can't just leave Ray hanging there.

EXT. FENCE -- NIGHT

Claude runs up and grabs Ray's legs, pulling for all he's

worth. The shirt rips free, sending Ray and Claude tumbling

to the ground. They leap to their feet and turn toward the

car -- running smack into the barrel of Dillard's shotgun.

EXT. SUPERINTENDENT'S MANSION -- DAY

An OLD BLACK PRISONER delivers a frosty mint julep to

SUPERINTENDENT ABERNATHY who rocks slowly in his chair. At

his feet, his 10-year-old daughter MAE ROSE is playing jacks.

Her long blonde hair makes her look like a little angel.

Mae Rose is pointing down the drive, where Dillard and a

couple of trusties march Ray and Claude toward the house.

Bound by leg irons and handcuffs, Ray and Claude are deposited

at the bottom of the stairs.

Mae Rose considers their faces. Ray and Claude look like

they've been to hell and back.

Dillard nods and turns Ray and Claude around. As they march

back down the drive, Abernathy takes sip of his mint julep

and affectionately pats Mae Rose on the head.

EXT. CAMP 8 -- DAY

The incorrigibles of Camp 8 gather at the gun line, watching

silently as Dillard and a couple of trusties march Ray and

Claude toward the hole.

EXT. THE HOLE -- DAY

The trusties shove them each into a small, dank cell and

slam the doors behind them. Dillard secures both doors with

an iron bar.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. RAY'S CELL -- DAY

Ray slumps to the floor, propping his feet against the wall.

INT. CLAUDE'S CELL -- DAY

Claude considers his bleak surroundings. It's a small,

uncomfortable space, not even big enough to lie down. Just a

tin bucket for a toilet.

EXT. THE HOLE -- DAY

The sun beats down on the tin roofs...

INT. BUNKHOUSE -- CAGE -- NIGHT

The prisoners are gathered around a table, laying out money.

As usual, Poker Face is keeping tabs.

With an ear to his receiver, Radio slaps his money on the

table.

This gives the men pause. Willie tosses his money on the

table.

But Willie leaves the money where it is.

Poker Face makes notations as the betting resumes.

EXT. FIELD -- DAY

Work goes on as usual for the prisoners of Camp 8. Trusties

keep their eyes peeled for slackers.

EXT. THE HOLE -- DAY

The brick shacks bake in the noonday sun.

EXT. FIELD -- DAY

Biscuit moves down the line offering the ladle to the men as

they struggle under a crushing heat wave.

EXT. THE HOLE -- DAY

Superintendent Abernathy strides up and gives the nod to

Dillard, who unlocks the doors. Huddled in their respective

cells, Ray and Claude shrink from the bright sunlight. Then,

slowly and painfully, they rise to their feet.

In the background, the incorrigibles gather at the gun line

as word spreads that the fellows are still alive. Abernathy

glances at the crowd with annoyance.

Dillard slams the doors on Ray and Claude and clamps shut

the padlocks. Abernathy smiles at the incorrigibles, who

regard him with undisguised hatred.

AT THE GUN LINE

A somber Poker Face offers Willie a wad of bills.

INT. CLAUDE'S CELL -- NIGHT

A slot at the bottom of the door opens. A tin plate of mush

slides through and the slot closes. Slumped in the corner,

Claude reaches for the food -- but a RAT beats him to it,

scampering out of the shadows and leaping onto the dish.

INT. RAY'S CELL -- NIGHT

A commotion and wild screams come from Claude's cell. Ray

leaps to his feet, shouting through the wall.

INT. CLAUDE'S CELL -- NIGHT

Claude continues to stomp the rat.

Claude pounds against the door, raising a holy racket. We

continue to cut back and forth between cells as needed.

Claude continues shouting and pounding.

Ray looks around his cell. Claude's pounding is bound to

wake up somebody soon.

Claude focuses on what Ray is saying and starts to breathe

easier.

EXT. THE HOLE -- NIGHT

Dillard strides toward the hole, shotgun in hand. He pauses

to listen to the argument, cocking an eyebrow in befuddlement.

Dillard shakes his head, shoulders his gun and heads back

toward his house.

EXT. THE HOLE -- DAY

Abernathy gives the nod to Dillard, who unlocks the doors.

Two trusties drag Ray and Claude out of their cells.

INT. BUNKHOUSE -- DAY

The men crowd around the windows.

EXT. THE HOLE -- DAY

Slowly, Claude opens his eyes, squinting in the harsh light

of day. Summoning his strength, he staggers to his feet.

Ray's eyes blink open. Claude holds out a hand and helps him

stand up. They share a look. They made it.

Abernathy turns on his heels. Dillard considers the two tough

guys standing before him.

Ray and Claude stagger toward the bunkhouse as the

incorrigibles gather on the porch and help them in out of

the sun.

INSERT -- TIME PASSAGE

(Note: This montage is mixed with 16mm and Super 8 footage.

A beautiful 1940s song plays over.)

A. King Kong is machined-gunned off the top of the Empire

State Building...

B. FDR introduces his New Deal...

C. The incorrigibles chop weeds...

D. With Willie and Claude standing guard, Ray samples a batch

of moonshine from a secret still in his footlocker...

E. At the height of the depression, poor people line up in

front of a soup kitchen...

F. Ray and the crew sit around the poker table playing cards

and laughing...

G. Ray opens a letter and pulls out a snapshot of his mama

which he places over his bunk.

H. The incorribles level a road...

I. Jesse Owens wins the 100 meter race at the 1936 Olympics

in Berlin...

J. Benny Goodman sets the kids dancing with wild abandon in

the aisles of the Paramount Theater...

K. The Hindenburg bursts into flames...

L. Claude writes a letter, "Dear Sylvia"...

M. In the juke joint, Sylvia reads the letter and smiles.

She shows it to a few other WORKING GIRLS...

N. Adolf Hitler stabs the air in front of a foreboding sea

of Nazis...

O. The 1939 World's Fair opens in New York...

P. Ray nails a sign to the side of the bunkhouse: RAY'S BOOM

BOOM ROOM. He steps back to admire the effect. Behind him,

Sylvia and her friends mingle with the incorrigibles in the

yard... Dillard takes his cut as Claude and Sylvia head for

the tonk house. Ray and his date step up...

Q. Lou Gehrig is honored at Yankee Stadium. "Today I consider

myself the luckiest man on the face of the Earth..."

R. With a pillow stuffed under a home-made Santa outfit, Ray

distributes chocolate to the incorrigibles while Claude and

Willie decorate the saddest little Christmas tree you ever

saw.

S. The 1940 Oldsmobile is introduced...

T. Japanese Zeros bomb Pearl Harbor...

U. FDR declares "a day that will live in infamy."...

V. A WWII newsreel shows American G.I. s storming a beach in

the South Pacific...

INT. MESS HALL (1943) -- NIGHT

The inmates of Camp 8 cheer for the American soldiers up on

a makeshift movie screen. Instead of black and white stripes,

the prisoners now wear blue twill. In an audience of new

faces, the CAMERA FINDS some familiar ones. Ray and Claude

are surrounded by their crew -- Willie, Radio, Poker Face,

Cookie, Biscuit, Jangle Leg and Goldmouth. A decade has

passed.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

A line of NEW PRISONERS stands before Dillard, now 10 years

older.

Dillard pauses in front of a big country boy who can't be

more than 18 years old. The kid is bouncing a rubber ball.

The kid don't answer. An OLD GUY steps forward.

INT. BUNKHOUSE -- DAY

Ray and some of the fellas are playing poker. Dillard's voice

drifts in through the open window.

He lays down his cards and rakes in the pot.

EXT. BASEBALL FIELD -- DAY

Jangle Leg pitches to Radio, who swings and misses. Behind

the plate, Goldmouth tosses the ball back to Jangle Leg. On

the sideline, Ray teaches three-card monte to CAN'T GET RIGHT.

Claude paces nearby.

Another pitch, another strike.

Radio knocks a grounder up the middle.

Can't Get Right looks at Ray.

Can't Get Right shuffles to the plate. Goldmouth hands him

the bat.

Jangle Leg tosses the ball. Can't Get Right swings and

connects with a mighty CRACK! The incorrigibles crane their

necks as the ball disappears into the sky. They turn to look

at Can't Get Right. Ray gives Claude a significant look,

then tosses another ball out to Jangle Leg on the mound.

Jangle Leg nods, winds up and delivers a whistling fast ball.

Can't Get Right clobbers it. Once again, the incorrigibles

track the departing projectile.

Can't Get Right smiles for the first time.

EXT. SUPERINTENDENT'S MANSION -- DAY

The men of Camp 8 paint a fence along the drive leading up

to the big house.

Just then a U. S. Army Jeep swerves past the men and parks

in front of the mansion. Young CAPT. TOM BURNETTE helps MAE

ROSE out of the car. The prisoners stare furtively at her

long legs and curly blonde tresses.

Next to them, Can't Get Right stares openly, mesmerized by

her beauty. Ray nudges him.

Up at the mansion, Abernathy and his WIFE come out onto the

porch, all smiles.

The prisoners steal glances as Mae Rose kisses her new husband

goodbye. She gives them quite a show, raising her leg behind

her just like Betty Grable. Then Tom climbs into the Jeep

and pulls away.

Mae Rose takes a long glance at the prisoners. The men all

look away -- except Can't Get Right who stands there smiling

innocently. Mae Rose gives him a little wink, then turns her

back and bounces up the steps.

EXT. BASEBALL FIELD -- DAY

A plump PIG roots about in a small pen. A sign dangles from

a post -- "First Prize." The incorrigibles of Camp 8 limber

up for the big game with the inmates of Camp 12 across the

field.

Beyond the fence, a late-model sedan rolls up. STAN BLOCKER,

in a straw hat and a rumpled suit, climbs out and stretches

his legs. Irritated, he smacks a mosquito and exchanges a

few words with Dillard.

Claude hustles over, removing his hat.

Blocker winks at Dillard, then glances at the incorrigibles

practicing in the field. Goldmouth, Cookie, Poker Face,

Biscuit -- they don't exactly inspire confidence.

Blocker takes a seat on the bench.

EXT. BASEBALL FIELD -- DAY

The inmates of Camp 12 are in the field. Our boys from Camp

8 cheer for Cookie digging in at the plate. Ray taunts the

opposition from the third base line.

The PITCHER winds up and releases a fast ball. Cookie swings

and connects for a base hit up the middle.

IN THE STANDS

Mrs. Abernathy and Mrs. Dillard share a box of Cracker Jack.

Mae Rose sits next to them. She is SIX MONTHS PREGNANT. She

removes her sunglasses and coyly bites a fingernail when she

spots Can't Get Right in the on-deck circle.

DOWN ON THE FIELD

Can't Get Right smiles shyly. Sensing trouble, Claude ushers

Can't Get Right toward the plate, massaging his shoulders.

Can't Get Right digs in. Claude returns to the sidelines and

appeals to the gods. The pitcher winds up and releases a

fast ball. Can't Get Right connects with that familiar CRACK!

Blocker stands up and watches the ball clear the fence and

just keep going.

With his team cheering him on, Can't Get Right trots around

the bases. But he's still looking at Mae Rose.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD (LATER) -- DAY

Cookie slowly turns the pig on a spit over an open fire. The

incorrigibles are savoring a victory feast. As always, trusty

guards keep an eye on things.

Off to the side, Blocker is laughing with Ray and Claude. He

takes a hit off Ray's bottle of shine. It's not his first,

either.

Blocker starts for his car, parked just beyond the gun line.

Ray and Claude's eyes gleam with hope as Blocker's car rumbles

off down the road.

EXT. SUPERINTENDENT'S MANSION -- NIGHT

Inside, a woman screams in agony. Then, the HEALTHY CRIES of

a new-born baby.

INT. MAE ROSE'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Superintendent Abernathy paces anxiously in front of a white

curtain surrounding Mae Rose's bed. Suddenly, Mrs Abernathy

staggers out from behind the curtain with a stricken look on

her face. She tries to speak, but words fail her. Her legs

go wobbly and she faints dead away.

The DOCTOR steps from behind the curtain, drawing it behind

him. He checks Mrs. Abernathy's pulse.

Abernathy pushes past the doctor and yanks open the curtain.

Mae Rose is propped up in bed, looking exhausted.

The NURSE turns around, cradling the baby in her arms.

Abernathy gently pulls back the soft blanket. His eyes widen

with horror upon discovering that the newest member of the

Abernathy family is black.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

Can't Get Right bounces his rubber ball off the wall, catching

it on the rebound.

INT. BUNKHOUSE CAGE -- DAY

Ray passes around his latest batch of buck as the men discuss

Can't Get Right's professional prospects. The thump-thump of

the ball on the wall outside plays over.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

Abernathy drives his sedan up to the bunkhouse. All of his

worldly possessions are strapped to the roof. It appears

that the Abernathys are leaving town. In the back seat, Mae

Rose cradles her baby. Her mother sits next to her. Dillard

steps out into the yard to confer with the Superintendent,

then turns to address the inmates.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

Abernathy holds his newborn grandson up next to Ray's face.

Hmm. Scowling, he moves a little further down the line,

scrutinizing the features of each man. He pauses in front of

Claude, holds up the baby. Maybe. Abernathy stops in front

Goldmouth. Holds up the baby. The possibility makes him

shudder. He moves on to Can't Get Right. His eyes narrow.

Disgusted, Abernathy hands the baby back to Mae Rose. Then

he turns, walks back to Can't Get Right and places a revolver

against his head.

Can't Get Right nods slowly. Abernathy smiles.

Up and down the line, the men brace themselves for the worst.

Can't Get Right just grins. Enraged, Abernathy cocks the

revolver. That's when Ray steps forward.

Stunned, Abernathy lowers the gun and approaches Ray. Then

Claude steps forward.

Confused, Abernathy looks back and forth between the two

men. Then Willie steps forward.

And so it goes down the line, until every last man of Camp 8

has stepped forward to claim kinship with the Superintendent.

Even hard-ass Dillard can't help cracking a smile. Disgusted,

confused and thoroughly fed up, Abernathy jams the revolver

into his belt and climbs into the car. As he guns the engine,

Mae Rose gazes out the back window, smiling one last time at

the father of her baby. Can't Get Right smiles back.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

It's visiting Sunday and Ray's Boom Boom Room is in full

swing. Sylvia's girls are everywhere. Down at the gunline,

Dillard takes his cut from inmates lined up for their turn

in the tonk. A FIVE-PIECE PRISON BAND is playing the blues.

Nearby, Willie is dispensing Ray's moonshine from a bunkhouse

window. He raises a jar in a toast.

The incorrigibles erupt in boisterous agreement. Claude grabs

Can't Get Right and shakes him.

Just then, Rev. Clay and his daughter emerge from the mess

hall and start across the yard. It's a good thing the old

man is blind because he wouldn't want to see how far his

flock has strayed. The Reverend inhales deeply as one of

Sylvia's girls passes nearby.

Blissed out incorrigibles enjoy a last dance as the band

downshifts into a slow, sultry number. In the midst of the

dancers, Claude clings to Sylvia. Nearby, Jangle Leg dances

intimately with a YOUNG WOMAN.

Up on the porch, Ray refreshes Biscuit's drink. Biscuit has

been crying and it shows. The liquor probably isn't helping.

He pulls some folded sheets of paper from his pocket, passes

them to Ray.

Poker Face leans in.

Ray gives Poker face a shove, then turns back to Biscuit.

Ray hands back the papers and heads off to dance with a PRETTY

YOUNG WOMAN lingering nearby. Left alone, Biscuit polishes

off his moonshine and checks his reflection in the bunkhouse

window.

He crumples the discharge papers and drops them. Then he

steps down from the porch and walks calmly past the dancing

prisoners toward the gun line.

Ray lifts his head off his date's shoulder. Something about

the way Biscuit is walking suggests that he isn't going to

stop.

But it's too late. Biscuit crosses the gun line and keeps

walking, his eyes focused on the horizon.

The band stops playing, the dancers grow still. Dillard turns

around and squints.

But Biscuit isn't paying attention. He breaks into a run.

Dillard nods to Hoppin' Bob who raises his rifle and draws a

bead. But he can't pull the trigger. He lowers his gun.

Shots ring out from the shooter shacks. Biscuit reels from

the impact of the bullets and looks down sadly at the blood

spreading across his ring-arounds...

Prisoners silently gather at the gunline. Jangle Leg pushes

his way through the crowd and crosses the gunline without

hesitation. Dillard indicates for the shooters to hold their

fire. They train their rifles on Jangle Leg as he strides

toward his fallen companion. Jangle Leg gently lifts Biscuit's

lifeless body into his big arms and somberly carries him

back toward the camp. The CAMERA RISES HIGH OVERHEAD as the

prisoners make way for Jangle Leg to cross back over the

gunline.

INT. BUNKHOUSE -- DAY

A dark mood hangs over the men. Jangle Leg sits stoically as

Radio fiddles with his receiver. Nearby, Poker Face and Ray

play a listless game of gin rummy. Claude is thumbing

distractedly through a dog-eared copy of Baseball Digest.

But nobody can muster much enthusiasm for this news. Radio

shrugs and drops down on his bunk.

Just then, Can't Get Right walks past heading for the door.

He's dressed in civilian clothes, his bindle slung over his

shoulder.

Can't Get Right holds out a piece of paper which Ray

scrutinizes.

The incorrigibles gather around for a glimpse at Can't Get

Right's ticket to freedom.

Can't Get Right nods out the window. Stan Blocker is waiting

by his car.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

Claude storms across the yard and stops at the gun line. Ray

is a few steps behind.

This hits Claude hard.

Claude looks around as the incorrigibles begin to gather.

He's on the spot. Dillard approaches with Can't Get Right.

Claude looks into the big kid's eyes.

Steeling himself to the reality of the situation, Claude

gives Can't Get Right a hug.

Can't Get Right nods. He steps up to the gun line and looks

at both shooter shacks.

Can't Get Right steps across the gun line. Blocker opens the

car door for him. But before he climbs in, Can't Get Right

reaches into his pocket and pulls out his rubber ball. With

a smile, he tosses it to Claude, who snatches it out of the

air.

Blocker tips his hat and climbs behind the wheel. Claude and

Ray watch Blocker's car drive off under a red Mississippi

sunset. Slowly, the inmates drift back toward the bunkhouse

until Ray an Claude are left alone at the gun line.

Suddenly enraged, Ray hauls off and knocks Claude down with

a solid right. Surprised, Claude touches his bloody lip.

A hard look comes to Ray's eyes as Claude rises to his feet.

Ray walks away, leaving Claude to nurse his split lip.

INSERT -- TIME PASSAGE

A. In his Pittsburgh Crawfords uniform, Can't Get Right lays

into a fast ball, sending it soaring into the bleachers...

B. People dance in the street in Time Square, marking the

end of WWII...

C. Hoppin' Bob drops a package on Ray's bunk. Ray rips off

the brown paper to reveal a book: "So You Want to Learn to

Fly..."

D. Claude and Sylvia make love in the tonk house...

E. In the mess hall, Ray pointedly carries his tray past a

table where Claude sits with Willie...

F. An A-bomb explodes in the Bikini Atolls...

G. Jimmy Stewart hugs his wife and children at the end of

"It's a Wonderful Life"...

H. Jackie Robinson slides across home plate at Ebbets Field...

I. Ray runs full tilt across a field toward a barn. Sure

enough, there's the single engine crop duster parked right

where he said it would be...

J. Claude and another INMATE repair a hole in the bunkhouse

roof. They dive for cover as Ray's crop duster swoops low

overhead and dips out of sight beyond the trees. A puff of

smoke rises into the sky...

K. Soot-stained, Ray is marched to the hole and shoved

inside...

L. Newly elected president Harry Truman holds up a copy of

the Chicago Tribune baring the headline "Dewey Defeats

Truman"...

M. RCA unveils the first color television...

N. Cars pull up next to speaker poles in front of a drive-in

movie screen...

O. In the bunkhouse, early rock and roll plays on a modern

1950s radio that sits where the old vacuum tube receiver

used to be. A YOUNG TOUGH now occupies Radio's old bunk...

P. At the poker table, Poker Face slumps forward onto his

pile of chips, revealing a straight flush. The other men

quickly fold...

Q. With a TRUSTY standing guard, Claude and Ray silently

shovel dirt into Poker Face's grave. The CAMERA MOVES past

gravemarkers -- Biscuit, Jangle Leg, Radio...

R. Marilyn Monroe's skirt rises on a blast of subway air in

"The Seven-Year Itch"...

S. Rosa Parks is arrested for refusing to sit in the back of

the bus...

T. Elvis Presley creates a sensation on the Ed Sullivan

Show...

U. School children learn to "duck and cover" in the event of

nuclear attack...

V. The inmates of Camp 8 work to level a road. Ray's on one

side, Claude's on the other...

W. Prisoners mingle with friends and family on visiting

Sunday. Claude waits on the bunkhouse steps. His face

brightens when Sylvia appears...

X. Blacks sit-in at lunch counters in Greensboro, N.C...

Y. Kennedy is elected...

Z. OMITTED...

AA. Martin Luther King delivers his "I have a dream" speech

at the Lincoln Memorial...

BB. The Zapruder footage of Kennedy being shot...

CC. American soldiers jump down from helicopters and run for

the jungles in Vietnam...

DD. Ford introduces the 1965 Mustang...

EE. The assassination of Malcolm X...

FF. Muhammad Ali looms over Sonny Liston, asking "What's my

name?"...

GG. The CAMERA MOVES past more gravemarkers -- Hoppin' Bob,

Goldmouth -- to find Claude and Ray silently shoveling dirt

over another casket. Ray pounds a simple marker into the

ground: Cookie. Briefly, they lock eyes. But neither one

speaks and the moment passes...

HH. Go-Go dancers...

II. Mao Tse Tung...

JJ. Jimi Hendrix at the Monterey Pop Festival...

KK. TV's Batman and Robin battle the forces of evil in Gotham

City...

LL. Black Panthers...

MM. Peace Protesters...

NN. The death of Martin Luther King...

OO. Robert Kennedy...

PP. Neil Armstrong sets foot on the moon...

QQ. Vida Blue rears back and fires a pitch in the 1972 World

Series...

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

On the porch, Willie, now in his 70s, sits in a wheelchair

watching the ball game on a black-and-white television. A

TRUSTY waits nearby. Ray, now in his mid-60s, emerges from

the bunkhouse lugging a duffle bag.

He gives Willie a slap on the back and nods to the trusty.

The trusty wheels the old man across the yard where YOUNG

PRISONERS mingle with WIVES and FAMILY MEMBERS sporting the

fashions of the early '70s -- Afros, mutton chops, paisley

prints and bell-bottom pants.

ACROSS THE YARD

Looking old-style, Claude sits on the mess hall steps waiting

for Sylvia. He catches Willie's eye. The two men nod to each

other, an unspoken farewell. Then Claude turns to find Ray

looking at him from the bunkhouse steps. Ray and Claude hold

each others gaze for a moment. Then Ray heads back into the

bunkhouse.

Claude turns to face YVETTE, a pretty young woman.

Claude takes this in, staring off into space.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

Claude stands at the gun line, staring across at the Dillard

house. Mrs. Dillard places a couple of pies on the windowsill

to cool.

Suddenly, he makes a break for the Dillard house.

Ray turns to see Claude dashing across no-man's land. Shots

ring out from the shooter shack, kicking up dirt around

Claude's feet as he serpentines across the field.

EXT. DILLARD'S HOUSE -- DAY

Breathless, Claude makes it to the kitchen window and digs

his hand into the golden-brown crust, shoving a sloppy fistful

of pie into his mouth. More shots ring out. Bullets PING all

around him. Grabbing the pie, he darts around the side of

the building, out of range. Back against the wall, he drops

down on his haunches, snarfing pie like a hungry wolf.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

A case of empty Coke bottles sits in the middle of the yard,

glinting in the hot sun. His face smeared with boysenberry,

Claude finishes taking off his boots and socks and steps

barefoot onto the bottles.

He takes a trusty's rifle and moves among the inmates, who

have gathered around. He stops when he gets to Ray.

Ray glances at Claude, then back at Dillard.

Dillard offers the rifle to Ray, who doesn't have to think

too long.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- SUNDOWN

Ray's been given the same treatment as Claude. Barefoot,

balanced on Coke bottles, the two men stand a few feet apart

facing each other. A trusty with a rifle keeps an eye on

them. After years of silence, the tension reaches the breaking

point...

The trusty tightens his grip on his rifle. He'd love the

opportunity.

They stand in stony silence. Then Ray starts to laugh. A

long, low belly laugh.

The two men start to laugh. Really laugh. Nearly a decade's

worth of laughter comes welling up out of them, and they

nearly lose their balance, which only makes them laugh harder.

EXT. CAMP 8 YARD -- DAY

A trusty bangs the rap iron. Young prisoners pour from the

bunkhouse and line up for breakfast. Claude and Ray bring up

the rear, the elder statesmen of the bunch. By a long shot.

Claude and Ray step out of line and approach Dillard.

Ray and Claude share a look. Then Ray embraces Dillard, who

stoically endures the breach of his personal space.

EXT. SUPERINTENDENT'S MANSION -- DAY

Up on the porch, Claude brings a tray of minted iced tea to

Superintendent Wilkins, who sets aside his bible and washes

down a couple of pills.

Before going back inside, Claude can't resist taunting Ray,

busy trimming a hedge out in the hot sun.

EXT. MARSH -- DAY

Claude and Ray beat the bulrushes with switches, rustling a

couple of pheasants from their hiding spot. As the birds

take wing, Wilkins aims his shot gun and fires twice in rapid

succession. Both birds fall from the sky in a flutter of

feathers.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. SUPERINTENDENT'S MANSION -- DAY

Claude fills Wilkins' water glass as the Superintendent takes

a bite of lamb chop and winces in pain.

Claude glances at a glossy brochure. From outside, Ray peers

suspiciously through the dining room window as he hacks at a

rose bush.

Claude returns the brochure.

Wilkins glances over at the window. Ray ducks out of view.

Claude pushes back into the kitchen, leaving Wilkins to think

this one over.

INT. SERVANTS' QUARTERS -- NIGHT

Ray and Claude are getting ready for bed.

Claude punches his pillow and turns off the light.

EXT. SUPERINTENDENT'S MANSION -- DAY

Ray hacks a rose bush down to the nub. From the garage comes

the sound of an engine turning over. Wilkins' 1973 Lincoln

Continental convertible lurches down the drive with Claude

at the wheel. He screeches to a halt inches from Ray's legs

and climbs from the car.

Claude pulls out a hanky and buffs Ray's finger print off

the hood.

Ray scowls as Claude straightens his chauffeur uniform and

heads up the path to the mansion.

EXT. GREENVILLE BUS STATION -- DAY

Claude pulls up in front of the station, steps out of the

car and holds the door for Wilkins, who checks his watch.

Wilkins heads into the station, leaving Claude alone with

the Continental. All around him are the sights, sounds and

smells of the free world. A woman rushes into the arms of a

man as he climbs off a bus. Across the street is Grandma

Dodi's Pork Rib Joint where Cookie never made it to the peach

cobbler. A young brother with a boom box walks by. In the

street, kids crowd around the back of an ice cream truck.

Then Claude catches his reflection in the car window and

frowns. When did he get this old? Unnerved, he moves around

to the back of the car and pops open the trunk.

Ray looks, Claude clocks him. Ray slumps back into the trunk.

Claude stuffs Ray's legs back into the trunk and slams the

lid.

He looks up just as Wilkins and the new superintendent exit

the bus station. Warren Pike's hair has gone grey and he's

40 years older, but there's no mistaking the former sheriff

of Natchez County. He still bears a nasty scar on his cheek

from a wound inflicted long ago.

CLAUDE'S POV -- Pike appears as a young man in his sheriff's

uniform striding slowly toward him.

Claude blinks and looks again. Pike has returned to his old

self as he and Wilkins step up.

Oblivious, Pike climbs into the back seat. Wilkins nods to

Claude.

Claude snaps to it, grabbing the bags. He considers opening

the trunk, but decides to carry them around to the front

seat with him.

EXT. KITCHEN PORCH -- DUSK

Backs to the CAMERA, Ray and Claude urinate, presumably off

the porch.

INT. DINING ROOM -- NIGHT

Wilkins pours a frosty drink and offers it to Pike.

Pike pulls a flask from his jacket and tilts it high. Claude

enters from the kitchen with the two steaming bowls of gumbo.

Pike nods coldly. Claude steps back into the kitchen.

Pike curls his lip with disdain before taking a healthy

spoonful of gumbo.

EXT. MARSH -- DAY

Claude and Ray beat the bullrushes with switches. Amid a

flutter of wings, three pheasants take to the air. Wilkins

fires first, knocking one out the sky. Pike pulls off two

rounds, playing clean up.

EXT. FIELD -- DAY

Ray and Claude dump their game bags into the back of a pickup

truck. Nearby, Pike drains his flask while Wilkins scrapes

mud off his boots. The breeze picks up, clouds fill the sky.

Pike pulls a gold watch from his pocket and releases the

face plate. A familiar mechanical tune floats on the gathering

breeze. Ray turns around slowly. His eyes fall on the watch

in Pike's hand. His daddy's watch. In Pike's hand.

Claude looks at the watch, then at Ray. Uh oh.

Pike thrusts the barrel of his gun up under Ray's chin.

Wilkins turns to see Pike holding Ray at gunpoint.

Ray grabs the barrel of the shotgun and slams it into Pike's

face. Pike rolls over and freezes, staring down the barrel

of his own gun now in Ray's hands. Confused, Wilkins points

his gun at Ray.

Claude grabs for the gun.

Claude yanks the gun free and points it right in Pike's face.

Wilkins trains his gun on Claude. But the moment passes.

Claude lowers the gun. Bewildered, Wilkins does the same.

Ray mouths the word -- "soft." Claude clenches his jaw, points

the gun and pulls the trigger. Click.

Pike smirks and pulls a small gun from his boot. But as he

raises it -- BLAM! Pike is hurled backward by a shotgun blast.

Shocked, Ray and Claude look at Wilkins, his gun still smoking

in his hands.

After a significant beat, Ray reaches down and gingerly

retrieves his daddy's gold pocket watch.

EXT. SUPERINTENDENT'S MANSION -- DAY

A gurney carrying Pike's body is lifted into the back of a

van by two COUNTY CORONERS. Nearby, a distraught Wilkins

tells his story to a couple of SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES.

INT. MANSION -- DAY

Ray and Claude watch through the window as Wilkins talks to

the deputies.

One of the deputies pats Wilkins sympathetically on the back.

Then he and his partner put away their notebooks and head

for their vehicle. Wilkins heads up the steps and into the

house.

Visibly shaken, Wilkins takes a seat, wiping the sweat from

his brow with a handkerchief.

Wilkins winces and swallows a couple of pills from his box.

EXT. PRISON CEMETERY (PRESENT) -- DAY

Jake looks at Willie expectantly.

EXT. INFIRMARY -- DAY

Ray and Claude, now in their nineties, sit under a tree in

the courtyard listening to a Yankees game on a transistor

radio.

On the radio, the announcer voice rises in pitch as the

Yankees score. Ray and Claude share a satisfied look.

TWO ORDERLIES push a DEAD BODY past on a squeaking gurney.

Ray tips his flask in a simple salute.

Ray closes his eyes and settles in for a nap. Claude turns

to watch Jonesy squeaking away. Something about what Ray

just said has given him an idea.

INT. INFIRMARY -- DAY

"Oprah" blares on the television. Old convicts linger about

in various states of repose and decay. A young ORDERLY pops

to the music on his Walkman as he pushes a cart through the

ward.

Over at a table, Ray and Claude play poker with Willie, a

SHAKY OLD JUNKIE and TWO YOUNG GANG BANGERS. The currency on

the table isn't poker chips, it's pills of various sizes and

colors.

GANG BANGER #2 takes a quick hit of cocaine from a bullet.

He notices Ray staring at him.

Ray pushes his bet to the center of the table. The shaky

junkie folds. Willie tosses in some pills and turns to Gang

Banger #2.

Glaring, Gang Banger #2 flips a big pill into the pot.

He tosses down his cards. The shaky junkie attempts to light

a cigarette. The match slips from his trembling fingers and

falls into his lap.

Gang Banger #1 folds. It's back to Ray.

The remaining players match the pot. Gang Banger #2 reveals

his cards. Willie frowns. Ray lays down his cards and

victoriously sweeps his winnings into a paper cup. Across

the room, Nurse Humphries enters with a tray of snacks. She,

too, is showing the years.

The magic word. The poker players join a stampede of oldsters

in a clatter of canes, walkers and artificial limbs. Ray and

Claude are left alone at the table.

Claude glances around to ensure that he's not overheard.

Ray gives Claude a long look.

Ray turns away as Claude walks off. A DODDERING INMATE stands

nearby slurping on Jell-O. His robe hangs open.

Disgusted, Ray discards his own Jell-O. He pulls out his

daddy's pocket watch and checks the time. The little

mechanical tune nags at him. He snaps the lid shut and

considers the watch resting in the palm of his hand.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT

The building is dark. But then, through a first-floor window,

we see the unmistakable orange glow of a fire.

INT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT

An ALARM BLARES as the place fills with smoke. Wearing a

robe and slippers, Nurse Humphries runs among the prisoners,

helping them out the door.

EXT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT

Coughing and disheveled, Ray emerges onto the lawn pushing

Willie in the wheelchair. As other prisoners evacuate the

building, Ray looks around for Claude, but he doesn't see

him. Nurse Humphries takes a quick head count.

Grimly, Ray starts toward the burning infirmary. Nurse

Humphries holds him back.

Ray shakes her off and runs up the steps, disappearing into

the burning building.

INT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT

Ray dodges flames as he presses into the inferno.

EXT. INFIRMARY -- NIGHT

Nurse Humphries, Willie and the rest of the inmates watch

grimly as flames engulf the building. Nobody could survive

this blaze. From the highway comes the siren wail of

approaching fire engines. But it's too late. Sparks erupt

into the night sky as the roof collapses...

EXT. INFIRMARY -- DAWN

Fire trucks pull away from the smoldering ruins. A local

REPORTER interviews witnesses. INVESTIGATORS comb through

the wreckage, making notes. COUNTY CORONERS pull a couple of

gurneys from the back of their van.

EXT. INFIRMARY RUINS -- DAY

Superintendent Bill Burke is led through the destruction by

a FIRE INSPECTOR. They approach the coroners as they finish

zipping up two body bags.

Burke watches solemnly as the coroners wheel the bodies past

him.

EXT. PRISON CEMETERY -- DAY

Jake and Leon shake their heads and look at the two fresh

graves.

The young inmates share a look, then glance into the graves,

then look back at Willie.

Leon and Jake do the arithmetic. You can almost hear the

gears grinding under the strain.

Willie starts to chuckle and sets his electric wheel chair

on auto-pilot, leaving the young inmates to guess at the

truth.

They pick up their shovels and go back to work burying the

caskets.

INT. GREENVILLE FIRE STATION -- DAY

The CAMERA MOVES PAST a FIREMAN hosing down the truck, past

another group of soot-stained FIREMEN eating breakfast, and

pauses in front of two lockers. A couple of FIREMEN emerge

from the showers wrapped in towels and open their lockers.

They share a look.

EXT. YANKEE STADIUM -- DAY -- WIDE SHOT

Scalpers sell tickets. Vendors hawk souvenirs. Fans stream

up from the subway and through the gates. Somebody is singing

"The Star-Spangled Banner."

EXT. STANDS -- DAY

In the middle of a capacity crowd, a VENDOR fixes two hot

dogs and passes them to a KID at the end of an aisle. The

kid passes them to the MAN next to him, and so on down the

line.

The CAMERA FOLLOWS the hot dogs from face to face, some old,

some young, some black, some white -- it's New York City,

after all -- and finally the hot dogs arrive in a pair of

old, calloused black hands. Ray passes one of the dogs to

Claude.

Ray and Claude glance around confused as the wave rolls

through their section of the bleachers. What the fuck? Claude

inspects his hot dog.

Ray snatches back the hot dog.

Ray is suddenly young again.

Claude takes the ice cream. He, too, is suddenly young again.

They look at each other and share a laugh.

Claude pops the top on his ice cream. Suddenly, they are

both old again.

The CAMERA begins to pull back.

"Pipe downs" etc. from the people around them.

The CAMERA PULLS BACK as the arguing continues, just like

the old days. MUSIC UP.

