JOHN LETOUR, forty, light sleeper. Never meant to be a drug

dealer, it just came along. He's been other things: messenger

boy, cab driver, model, postal clerk, doorman, nightclub

shill -- never meant to be them either. Now he's a D.D. Drug

dealer.

JOHN LETOUR, well-groomed, khaki slacks, leather jacket,

tippet-like scarf, belt pouch, "Beatle" boots, a shadow

drifting in and out of other shadows, New York, day, night:

watching, listening, rarely speaking -- nonexistent, seen

only by those he sees. His face an affable blank. Make of it

what you will. The eyes flicker; the hands shift discreetly.

A map of calculation.

Once he had a drug problem. Life turned a page. Today he

follows instructions: he sleeps light -- one eye open,

anticipating. JOHN LETOUR, D.D., loner, voyeur, has been

drifting toward an unknown destination. At mid-life the

destination draws near. The circle tightens. The dealer is

anxious. The destination is love.

NIGHT IN THE LIFE

CREDIT SEQUENCE: New York by night. JOHN LETOUR nestles in

back of a blue car service sedan, face reflected in the

window. Neon mixes with steam, street people with tourists,

young dates: each with a different agenda, a hidden purpose.

His beeper goes off. He clicks it, checks the digital message.

The DRIVER stops at an uptown corner. LETOUR opens the

curbside door, motions to the DRIVER he'll be back in "ten"

minutes. He enters the video laundromat, a twenty-four-hour

video rental/laundromat/tanning salon.

Inside, he meets a RETRO-YUPPIE (J. Crew Division) in the

"Classics" section. They exit.

On the sidewalk, money is exchanged for a packet. LETOUR

pockets the uncounted cash. The YUPPIE mouths goodbye, eager

to put distance between him and LETOUR. JOHN checks his

beeper, stops at a pay phone, dials.

JOHN LETOUR re-enters the sedan; the DRIVER heads downtown.

High-rises give way to Tudor City. Uncollected trash lines

the curbs. LETOUR eyes a PEDESTRIAN; PEDESTRIAN looks back.

Later. Three a.m. The streets are dark. LeTour's car passes

a glowing Korean market.

LETOUR narrates from diary:

The sedan drives on. End credits.

HOMEBASE

Four a.m.: streets empty. LeTour's sedan drops him off near

a ten-story West 80s apartment building. JOHN gives the DRIVER

a forty-dollar tip (standard procedure), turns the corner.

He presses the intercom; a buzzer unlocks the door. He enters

the lobby, walks past English reproduction furniture toward

the elevators. Presses the button.

Penthouse C door opens. ANN lets JOHN in with a smile.

ANN, forty-four, striking in a tailored dress, greets him

with a wet kiss. Her hair is coiffured, her face made up.

She is John's employer, mentor, confidante, Mother Hen: she

keeps the books. Her ingenuous demeanor belies sterner stuff:

she's been in the drug business fifteen years.

Ann's apartment is a jumble of sensibilities: dark green

walls, zebra-skin sofa, Haitian wall friezes, framed magazine

photos of Paramahansa Yogananda, Liz Taylor, the Duke of

Windsor -- paintings stacked behind an oversized urn. A bird

flits in its cage. One corner of the living area is devoted

to a fledgling cosmetics business: Macintosh computer,

billboard of trade paper clippings and ads, herbal samples,

reference books, color charts.

ROBERT, fifty, slight, waves hello as JOHN locks the door.

Gay, hip, worn, he's John's "co-runner."

They work -- and eat -- out of Ann's apartment. Take-out

tins of Indian food are stacked amid crystals, tarot cards,

glasses, and vitamin bottles. No sign of drugs, drug

paraphernalia, or money.

Repartee: the plumbing of family feeling.

JOHN unzips his belt pouch, walks toward the bedroom to

deposit the night's earnings.

LETOUR turns to leave.

He throws two kisses, exits.

JOHN'S APARTMENT

First light reflects across the Hudson as LETOUR walks west

on 22nd Street toward his Chelsea apartment building. A

delivery truck passes uncollected garbage. He enters a

nondescript doorway. Inside his studio apartment, JOHN sits

at a second-hand table writing in a composition book. He

drinks from an eight-ounce glass of white wine, continues.

The room has little personality; Ann's apartment has enough

for two. Nails indicate where pictures once hung; a boombox

sits on the linoleum floor amid cassettes, books

(Autobiography of a Yogi, The Secret Doctrine), fashion

magazines, a stack of unopened CDs. A futon is unrolled

beneath the room's sole decoration, a poster of a human foot

advertising a forgotten photo exhibit. Wine bottles -- Chenin

Blanc. Precious little to show for forty years.

LeTour's narration resumes as he writes:

JEALOUS

Five p.m. A Clinton transient hotel.

Inside hotel room, LETOUR meets with JEALOUS, a twenty-five-

year-old drug intermediary in leather jacket. JOHN counts

hundred-dollar bills, hands them to JEALOUS.

JEALOUS rearranges the hundreds:

LETOUR reaches for the door.

THE NIGHT BEGINS

Ann's apartment. Eight p.m. She opens the door for LETOUR,

kisses him, goes back to the phone. Mantra muzak plays as

JOHN locks door, heads toward bedroom. Inside bedroom, MTV

glows silently as ROBERT, wearing a black turtleneck, works

at a desk amid tools of the trade: digital scale, "hot box,"

Deering grinder, block of manite, pure cocaine, pills, felt

pen. ROBERT scissors glossy magazine paper (Elle) into neat

quarters, folds each into gram-size "bindels" -- envelopes.

Red satin drapes the ceiling.

JOHN kisses him atop the head.

ROBERT flips through cable channels as JOHN grinds cocaine.

ANN hangs up, calls:

They return to the living area.

They simultaneously kiss her cheeks.

The phone rings. Ann's voice repeats a recorded message:

Answering machine beeps. MAN'S VOICE speaks from the tiny

speaker: "Ann, this is Ed. Call me. 749-2876."

The phone rings again: another message as ANN examines the

menu.

JOHN grabs his belt pouch, heads for the closet.

CONFESSOR LETOUR

Rain falls on LeTour's car near an East Side luxury high-

rise. The door opens to Eddie's apartment: severe decor,

once chic, now dated. EDDIE, thirty-two, is a mess: puffy

face, sweaty shirt, pinched lips -- on a drug jag.

LETOUR nods as EDDIE, employing diminished skills, counts

from a roll of twenties. JOHN looks around: full ashtrays,

porn tapes, empty vodka bottles -- there have been no

"friends."

Pressures EDDIE into chair.

John's beeper goes off.

LETOUR nods.

EDDIE counts $200 as LETOUR takes a gram from his pouch,

gives it to him.

EDDIE pockets the envelope as JOHN, checking his beeper,

walks to the phone.

Later. LETOUR sits in an Upper West Side apartment as an

earnest MID-TWENTIESH MAN, wearing undershorts, snorts a

hefty line, offers a rolled dollar bill as he talks. LETOUR

declines.

LETOUR's mind drifts. His diary voice overlaps:

Later. Narration continues as sedan drives through rain.

Later. A Tribeca loft. LETOUR swaps drug jargon with TWO

N.Y.U. STUDENTS at an impromptu party. Attractive ingenues

drift by. TRENDY TWOSOME, blasted, sways, to techno-rap.

Business done, LETOUR turns to leave. The FIRST STUDENT grabs

his shoulder:

DOWNTOWN NYMPH, sixteen going on seventeen.

FACE FROM THE PAST

LeTour's sedan heads down Lexington Avenue. It rains unabated.

Puddles glisten; red taillights refract on the windshield.

JOHN rests in back, a bag from Enhancements beside him.

Pedestrians, well-dressed and casual, desperately wave for

taxis amid sacks of garbage. No use: nothing for blocks.

John's sedan stops for a midtown light. LETOUR looks out the

window, sees a WOMAN vainly hailing a cab. He looks again.

She turns her head. He recognizes her.

He leans over, opens the far door, calls:

MARIANNE JOST, thirty-five, stylish in short black hair and

long black coat, steps closer, looks through the rain.

She ducks inside, slams the door.

The car moves on.

MARIANNE wipes rain from her cheeks; her expression deepens:

cautious, suspicious. No reply.

She does: Enhancements Almond Oil. John's beeper goes off! --

he punches it.

The car pulls over. MARIANNE opens the door, gets out.

She fades into the rain. JOHN watches, aching.

The sedan continues uptown.

MEMORIES

John's apartment. Pre-dawn. His diary lies open on the desk.

LETOUR sits clothed on the futon, drinking white wine. He

pages through a cheap, half-filled photo album. He touches

snapshots, 35's from another time:

-- JOHN and MARIANNE, arm in arm, on a Florida beach

-- MARIANNE, surprised by the camera, snorting coke at a

party

-- JOHN, MARIANNE, and ANN posing, smiling, same party

-- JOHN and MARIANNE kissing over birthday cake, same party

-- MARIANNE IN MOROCCO BAZAAR

-- JOHN blowing a kiss in Fez airport

PSYCHIC HEALING

LeTour's narration continues over embossed card on an entry

table: Teresa Aronow, Psychic Reading, 37 Jones Street, New

York, N.Y. 10012, (212)473-4297. VOICES under narration:

JOHN accepts a coffee mug, sits on a sofa across from TERESA.

Sunlight falls through crocheted curtains.

TERESA ARONOW, fortyish, professionally young, is compact,

demure; she wears business jacket and skirt, patterned blouse.

Nothing about her is remotely paranormal -- nothing except,

of course, her "aura." The "Other Side." Her voice is at the

same time soothing, piercing.

Teresa's West Village consultation room is startlingly

mundane: a bourgeois walk-up. Upholstered furniture, Tiffany

objets d'art, framed photos of her husband and children -- a

trip to Capri. A twenties portrait of Madame Blavatsky, above

the fireplace, centers the room.

TERESA nods. JOHN tucks cash into an envelope, places it on

the coffee table.

MONEY CHANGER

Ann's apartment. The night has already begun. ANN sits on

the floor beside a YOUNG HASID counting money. He wears

Orthodox garb: black hat, black coat, peyas. Tibetan bells

reverb from speakers as the Bergmanesque cambist runs faced

twenty-dollar bills through a battery-operated counting

machine, places stacks of cash on the floor. ROBERT returns

a call from the kitchen; LETOUR emerges from the bathroom,

wiping his hands.

JOHN walks to the cosmetics corner, finds an envelope with

his name on it, looks inside: $500 in twenties. He pockets

the money.

LETOUR sits as HASID double-checks the total: cash covers

the available floor space.

Opening a satchel, he removes bound $100s, counts off 130 as

ANN adds up commission in small bills. He loads the satchel:

The HASID laughs. He likes her.

ANN follows him to the door.

ANN closes door.

Phone rings; Ann's machine answers: "Hello, this is Ann..."

ST. LUKE'S

EMS vehicles line street outside St. Luke's -- Roosevelt

Hospital. Inside, LETOUR weaves through Emergency (eerie),

double-steps the stairs, looks for the second floor waiting

area.

TIS (Mathis -- pronounced Tees), thirty-five, Swiss, paces

in the waiting room. He wears a linen jacket, horn-rim

glasses, Cerrutti Euro-swank. He spots JOHN, takes him aside:

LETOUR obliges. TIS pops a blue without water, pockets the

other.

TIS folds a bill into John's hand.

TIS turns, steps away. LETOUR walks down the long corridor.

Curious, reflective, he slows past open doors. Friends,

family, patients sit in blue light. Each room a drama.

He heads down a duplicate corridor. A VOICE turns his head:

He turns to see RANDI JOST, thirty, Marianne's younger sister.

She wears running shoes, jeans, red sweater.

MARIANNE, head down, approaches. Looking up, she finds herself

unexpectedly beside JOHN and RANDI:

An awkward silence: RANDI doesn't get it.

MARIANNE acquiesces.

JOHN escorts MARIANNE toward the stairs.

EUPHORIC RECALL

Hospital cafeteria. JOHN and MARIANNE carry trays to a formica

table, molded chairs. He mixes sugar in his coffee as she

sets out her salad, diet soda, to-go coffee.

An awkward moment. MARIANNE scans the fluorescent room:

doctors, nurses, relatives.

She doesn't answer. He slides his hand across the table. She

notices his gold and onyx ring.

She pushes his hand away. Details open doors.

JOHN leans forward, eyes open. She presses up an eyelid,

examines one iris, the other:

An INTERCOM VOICE announces visiting hours will end in five

minutes.

JOHN nods, checks his watch -- he's late too. They exchange

"last looks"; MARIANNE stands.

He stands, follows.

NEW DIARY

Later. LeTour's sedan pulls up near Palio, a midtown

restaurant.

JOHN steps around garbage bags, enters.

Inside, JOHN "maps" bar, greets the MAITRE D'. LETOUR spots

the FRENCH (LaCroix and Montana) COUPLE in the dining section,

catches the man's eye. He nods to the MAITRE D', makes his

way toward their table.

He joins the FRENCH COUPLE, declines a drink, exchanges

drugs/money amid air kisses.

Late night. Fog hangs over 22nd Street: Chelsea's deserted.

Homeless men behind windbreaks of trash.

John's apartment. He writes bareback at the desk. He completes

his composition book diary mid-sentence, closes it, discards

it. He lifts a new book from the floor, opens it on the desk,

continues.

He fills his glass with wine:

LETOUR pulls his weekly pay from his pants, puts five twenties

in an envelope. He addresses the envelope. "Linda Wichel,

1012B-2 A Street, Sacramento, California," stamps it.

Dissolves: (1) LETOUR vanishes from his desk, (2) materializes

fetally on his futon, bareback, slacks, boots, anxious,

awaiting sleep.

LeTour's diary contains parallel columns of names: one headed

"People Who Are Left Handed," the other, "People Whose Eyes

Don't Match."

COTE BASQUE

Midday. JOHN, wearing a black tweed jacket, tie, khaki slacks,

mails the Sacramento letter, enters COTE BASQUE, a hoity-

toity 55th Street restaurant.

Midmeal. ANN and LETOUR sit in a prominent booth; power moguls

confer quietly. A deferential WAITER brings fresh berries,

retrieves empty salmon plates.

The CHEF stops by, asks if the meal was satisfactory. ANN

assures him it was, kisses his hand. The CHEF nods, gratified.

JOHN resumes the conversation:

WAITER leans in, deposits check as WELL-TANNED CUSTOMER,

fifty-five, cologne and hauteur, passes. He looks at ANN

blankly, continues. She watches:

ANN pulls a wad of twenties from her purse, counts bills

atop the check: $260.

A beat: this is the reason for lunch. The WAITER picks up

the cash, appraises the gratuity.

JOHN reaches, touches her visceral emotion. He takes her

hand:

She smiles, clasps his hand. Touching, he is touched.

GENERAL HOSPITAL

Afternoon. St. Luke's. LETOUR, wearing tweed jacket, walks

down the corridor, checks room numbers. A NURSE passes. He

stops at a room, pushes the door a crack, peeks inside,

quietly enters.

Inside the hospital room, MRS. JOST, sixty-five, lies sedated,

attached to IV tubes and a respirator. Flowers wreathe the

bed.

RANDI sleeps in a chair by the window.

LETOUR looks from MRS. JOST to RANDI and back again: a vibrant

woman reduced to a shell. He soundlessly eases into a vacant

chair.

His mind goes back.

RANDI twists fitfully in her chair. A stuffed bear peeks

over family photos on the window sill.

MARIANNE steps into the doorway, stops, frozen -- watching

the tableau: JOHN, RANDI, her mother. Her face is ravaged:

the death watch has taken its toll. LETOUR reaches his arm,

touches the hospital bed.

MARIANNE tiptoes behind JOHN. He turns, stands.

She puts her finger to her lips. He nods. She steps closer,

holds him politely. His cheek nestles in her neck.

They turn toward the door, step into the corridor, walk arm

in arm as if supporting each other.

They stop. She kisses him.

She runs her hands under his shirt, up his back.

He slips his hands under her blouse, caresses her breasts.

They kiss deeper, bodies grinding. The painful present fades.

A NURSE approaches with WHEELCHAIR PATIENT. She tries to

pass one side of JOHN and MARIANNE, tries the other side, is

blocked again. The NURSE stops, stares at their soap opera.

Sensing her glare, JOHN and MARIANNE, hands over and under

each other, stop, look to the NURSE: embarrassed -- yet

blissful.

HOTEL SEX

Paramount hotel room: Vermeer's Lace Maker dominates Phillipe

Stark decor.

LETOUR and MARIANNE are all over each other. The pain of the

moment, the pain of the past are subsumed by passion. Blind,

welcome sexuality.

Naked, they kneel facing each other on the bed, faded bleeding

heart tattoo on his bicep:

They smack their sweaty bodies, tumble yelping to the carpet,

kiss indiscriminately:

Later: night. They lie nude in a scramble of twisted sheets

and mattresses. Street lights cast horizontal shadows. LETOUR

crawls over, falls upon Marianne's breast. She wakes up,

looks at JOHN, looks out the window, returns to slow sad

reality.

MARIANNE stands, pulls on her panties.

She dresses before responding:

MARIANNE, clothes askew, exits.

LETOUR is alone. He pulls his pants on. Looking for his socks,

he peruses Marianne's personal things. He examines her

cosmetics, her underclothes. He dabs her perfume on his cheek.

Buttoning his shirt, he retrieves his beeper from suit jacket.

Activated, it disgorges messages. He checks his watch: 9:00

p.m.

GET ON OUT

Nine-thirty: Ann's apartment building. Trash stacked high.

LETOUR presses the buzzer.

LETOUR, exhausted, unfocused, enters Ann's apartment. ANN is

immediately upon him:

AU BAR

LeTour's sedan waits between limos.

Inside, JOHN passes the MAITRE D', looks around: he's known

here. Au Bar, a restaurant/club open 9:00 p. m. to 4:00 a.

m., caters to the young, the rich, the European.

He spots TIS with THOMAS, twenty-five, his handsome trainer,

and TWO MODELS at a second-floor table. They exchange nods.

LETOUR scans the room: suspicion is second nature.

A laughing man (GUIDONE) at the bar catches his eye. He seems

to blend: Italian, twenty-eight, silk suit, impeccable hair,

accent -- but something's not right. His black shoes have

rubber soles. LETOUR looks for a gun bulge, dirty hands. The

ITALIAN turns; LETOUR glimpses his face: too pale. The ITALIAN

averts his eyes. Glancing back, LETOUR walks up the stairs

to Tis' table.

The MODELS respond in respective accents. THOMAS extends his

hand. JOHN shakes, remains standing.

GABRI and TASHA buzz.

THERE IS A DIRECTION

The blue sedan drives west past Times Square, turns north on

Eighth Ave. A plastic wall of trash stretches toward the

river. Port Authority hustlers -- male, female -- cruise as

TRANSIT COPS whack an emaciated CRACKHEAD. JOHN, lit by neon,

lowers his power window.

John's apartment. Night. He writes in his diary, drinks.

He goes to the phone, dials. A voice answers:

A pre-recorded message comes on:

LETOUR hangs up, carries the phone to the boombox. He dials

again, presses 'Record,' holds the receiver to the mike,

records the hotel message, hangs up.

First light slants from the window. LETOUR lies clothed on

the futon, boombox by his ear. He presses "Play" and "Rewind,"

running the tape over and over, listening, re-listening to

Marianne's voice: "Marianne Jost." "Marianne Jost." "Marianne

Jost.")

PHONE CALLS

Midday. Twenty-second Street. A helter-skelter of daytime

activity unseen before.

John's apartment. Sunlight fills the studio apartment. LETOUR,

unshaven in T-shirt and slacks, sets the phone on the desk

beside his open composition book. He pauses, dials.

JOHN waits, closes his diary.

He hangs up, thinks, redials.

A long silence. JOHN looks out the window. A MEDICAL STAFF

VOICE from the hospital:

JOHN hangs up, paces, sits.

DIRTY LAUNDRY

Afternoon. Chelsea laundromat. Mothers and maids gossip,

sort clothes. Hispanic radio underscores the whirl of

machines.

LETOUR, unshaven, shoves dirty clothes into a washer. He

counts out quarters, starts the machine.

Heading toward a vacant chair, he spots a MAN out the window.

It takes a second to place the face: it's the "Italian" from

Au Bar in street clothes. He watches JOHN watching him.

LETOUR walks outside, approaches GUIDONE on the sidewalk:

GUIDONE eyes LETOUR with disdain: the contempt of a cop for

a dealer, of youth for middle age.

GUIDONE elbow-stabs LETOUR, kicks his shin. Wincing,

retreating, JOHN staggers, regains his balance.

LETOUR examines the card.

FUNERAL HOME

Evening. LETOUR, shaven, in black tweed jacket, white shirt,

black tie, crosses Amsterdam Avenue, enters Plaza Memorial

Chapel.

Inside funeral home, JOHN checks the letterboard for Mrs.

Jost's name. An arrow directs him.

Nondenominational muzak. Senior citizens whisper off-screen.

Walking, he sees MARIANNE, dressed in black. She sees him,

turns to him; her face hollow, desperate:

A PLAZA MEMORIAL EMPLOYEE approaches. RANDI, in black,

intervenes, pulls JOHN toward the door. MARIANNE YELLS from

behind: "Out!" Outside, they stop midsidewalk.

A CRACKHEAD strides past trash ramparts, cursing, demanding

money: "Fuck white devil, fucking the black, give the fucking

money, white fuck...," etc.

She re-enters the funeral chapel.

ON A ROLL

Eight p.m. LETOUR, direct from Plaza Memorial, enters Ann's

apartment. ANN, coiffured and made up, gestures to take-out

tins:

ANN looks at JOHN, approaches:

The kitchen phone rings. A voice follows the pre-recorded

message:

INTERVENTION

Eddie's high-rise apartment. EDDIE is worse, if anything.

He's been scoring on the street: broken pipes and vials crunch

underfoot.

EDDIE and LETOUR argue ("Fuck you!" "Fuck you!"). EDDIE spits,

pushes TOUR, JOHN pushes back. Eddie's feet tangle. He trips,

FALLS. A bottle SMASHES.

JOHN goes to the phone, checks Eddie's directory, dials.

EDDIE, woozy, tries to stand.

EDDIE lurches toward LETOUR. JOHN -- flash of anger --

bootkicks him in the head! Eddie's cheek hits the carpet.

JOHN, cooling down, measures his breaths. A spring can only

be wound so tight.

LEXINGTON AVENUE

LETOUR walks from his sedan around the corner to the Lexington

Avenue entrance to Grace Towers, a pre-war apartment building.

In the lobby, he gives his name to the SECURITY GUARD, is

directed to the express elevator.

He exits on the thirtieth floor; footsteps muted by thick

carpet.

Victorian prints on dark blue walls. He looks about,

approaches a door, presses the buzzer.

THOMAS opens the door; JOHN enters Tis' opulent apartment.

Salle and Clemente hang on the walls; New York twinkles

outside panoramic windows. A pipe and syringe lie atop art

books. TIS, in jogging sweats, comes from the bedroom to

greet him.

LETOUR hands him a plastic bag of gram envelopes. TIS opens

a packet, pours the contents on the coffee table.

JOHN hears footsteps, turns to see MARIANNE stumble out of

the bedroom! She looks terrible: shoeless, blouse out, hair

undone, bruise on her forehead -- perhaps she fell against

something -- hands trembling.

JOHN stares speechless: the girl who won't talk to him because

he's a dealer. MARIANNE bolts back into the bedroom, SLAMS

the door!

LETOUR pockets the cash. TIS, his arm on John's elbow, "walks"

him to the door:

TIS nudges JOHN to the corridor, closes the door behind him.

JOHN looks toward the elevator; TIS, behind the door, calls

"Marianne!"

Time cut: LETOUR stands in the elevator, red floor numbers

flashing past, blank eyes mirrored in dark glass.

FALL FROM GRACE

JOHN exits Grace Towers, walks past a limo toward Lexington

Avenue. Rounding the corner, he sees his blue sedan. He looks

at the cash, repockets it. He continues slowly, each step a

separate task.

LETOUR reaches for the door handle. A scream pierces traffic

noise. A car screeches, another. Voices call out.

LETOUR steps back, listens. He retraces his steps, turns

onto Lexington Avenue. The SECURITY GUARD, walkie-talkie in

hand, clusters on the sidewalk with the limo driver, two

pedestrians. A cabbie jumps from his taxi, joins the confusion

("My God!"). A siren approaches. John's beeper goes off.

Drawing closer, LETOUR sees the partial bloodied shape of a

broken body on the sidewalk: he recognizes Marianne's skirt.

A squad car brakes with a screech. TWO COPS converge, climb

over trash, clear the crime scene:

A second squad car pulls up. JOHN turns away, walks around

the corner.

LETOUR opens the car door, closes it, sits inside. A wailing

ambulance flashes past, speeds up Central Park West.

LETOUR doesn't react. Beeper re-beeps; he disconnects the

battery.

The driver, CARLOS, twenty-five, Hispanic, shirt starched,

turns, looks, thinks, says:

Pause. More police cars. The EMS siren starts up; the

ambulance speeds downtown past LeTour's sedan. No reaction.

CARLOS turns off the engine.

CARLOS starts the car, pulls into traffic.

TWENTY-TWO MINUTES

John's apartment. Late night. LETOUR, barefoot, T-shirt,

slacks, stands flat against the wall.

WINS broadcasts twenty-four hour news on the boombox. ("Give

us twenty-two minutes and we'll give you the world.") Sports,

ads, bullshit -- LETOUR hears what he's been waiting for:

Actions have consequences.

MOTHER TERESA

First light. Jones Street. LETOUR, sleepless, pounds on

Teresa's door. No answer. Knocks again. Again.

Noises from inside. A sleepy voice:

TERESA, wearing oriental bathrobe, unlatches the door. JOHN

enters, turns to her. The door closes.

TERESA takes a moment to concentrate.

TERESA shuffles toward her bedroom -- the "reading" is over.

SNITCH

Mid-morning. LETOUR, still awake, walks past towering Chelsea

trash.

He passes a newsstand. Tabloids feature yearbook photo of

MARIANNE; the headline: "Fall from Grace."

LETOUR walks to a pay phone, takes out Guidone's card, inserts

a quarter, dials.

JOHN, suspicious, looks around. GUIDONE speaks:

Hangs up.

A LITTLE SLEEP

Noon. LETOUR enters a West Village apartment building.

He presses an intercom button. Robert's voice answers:

The door buzzes.

ROBERT opens the door to his overdecorated apartment. JOHN

looks around. TONY, Robert's younger, unattractive lover,

sips coffee at the table.

Words blur to jargon. LETOUR cuts in:

Turns to bathroom.

JUMP-OFFS

Six p.m. LETOUR, shaved and bathed, rides a cab uptown, past

Harlem, past 158th Street. He motions to the DRIVER; the

taxi stops at a blue door between retail stores begging for

renovation. TEENAGE LATINOS hang out. LETOUR gives the CABBIE

a twenty. LETOUR walks to the blue door; the YOUTHS stop,

watch. He knocks on the door. A PUERTO RICAN DOORMAN in white

leather pants and a heart-shaped diamond ring opens the door,

looks him over. JOHN reaches into his pouch, removes a gram

envelope, hands it to him. The DOORMAN takes a taste, buzzes

him through a door hand-lettered "Jump-Offs."

Inside Jump-Offs, a cocaine "spot," every eye turns to JOHN:

the only Anglo in a Hispanic after-hours club. Tough young

faces, each with a style and two inches of attitude. Willie

Colon plays on the jukebox.

Searching, LETOUR recognizes a face, walks over:

MANUEL calls over a TEENAGE DOMINICAN, explains the situation

in Spanish. The DOMINICAN replies; MANUEL turns back to JOHN:

They lead him to an even darker back room. The DOMINICAN

retrieves an automatic pistol from a trash pail, hands it to

MANUEL. JOHN counts cash from Tis' roll; MANNY hefts the

piece.

Bills and guns exchanged.

The DOMINICAN laughs; LETOUR takes his measure.

MANNY repeats this for the DOMINICAN ["bang, bang!"]; they

laugh again. LETOUR eases the .38 into his crotch. MANNY

turns, exchanges Latin hug:

JOHN exits, works his way through the club.

OUT WITH THE OLD

John's apartment. Seven p.m. LETOUR, sweating, bareback,

tucks the .38 under his futon.

He takes a bottle of cologne from the bathroom, pours it

over his hair, face, and torso, rubs it in.

Licking his finger, he removes Marianne's gold and onyx ring

with a tug. His finger stings. He opens a window, throws the

ring full force into the junk-strewn courtyard. He shakes

his torso; cologne glistens.

JOHN AND RANDI

Interior, Plaza Memorial Chapel. LETOUR enters the "viewing

room," motions to RANDI. She follows him.

They slip into a door, enter the embalming room: stainless

steel table surrounded by surgical cabinets.

They embrace, disengage. JOHN looks: Randi's exhausted face

mirrors his.

JOHN pulls a Polaroid from his pocket.

The picture features ANN and TIS: side by side at a dinner

party.

PRODIGAL SON

Ann's apartment. Eight p.m. ANN greets LETOUR with a hug.

LETOUR, suspicious, looks from ANN to ROBERT. He knows TIS

knows he knows MARIANNE was not alone when she went out the

window.

LAST RIDE

Night. ANN and LETOUR side by side in the sedan. CARLOS, at

the wheel, anonymous. Outside, SANITATION WORKERS toss sacks

of trash into garbage trucks: the strike is over.

ANN reminisces as lights flash:

JOHN wonders: The Big Goodbye? Is she acting at Tis' behest?

"They're?"

The sedan continues south. It turns, stops in front of John's

Chelsea apartment building.

JOHN hops out, goes in.

Inside John's apartment he -- a man possessed -- pulls his

black tweed from the closet, throws it on the futon. He rolls

up his shirt, reaches under the futon, removes the .38.

He straps the gun to his back, wraps duct tape around his

chest, end to end over the .38. He tucks in his shirt, puts

on the jacket, checks the mirror to see if the gun shows: it

doesn't. A pause to appreciate.

LETOUR closes his diary, throws it out the window: a trifle.

He slaps cologne on his cheeks -- annointing; heads toward

the door.

Outside, LETOUR emerges, walks quickly to the car, plops

beside ANN. The sedan drives off. Back seat:

LETOUR pulls out a slip of paper, writes a name and address:

"Linda Wichel, 1012B-2 A Street, Sacramento, California."

Extends slip of paper.

ANN starts to speak, stops.

She takes the name and address.

ANN, sad, looks out the window. She touches his knee. The

car pulls in front of the Pennsylvania Hotel, 34th and 7th.

They get out.

SHOOT-OUT

Pennsylvania lobby: a baseball card convention is in progress.

ANN squeezes through, goes to the house phone. JOHN follows,

scans the tacky lobby: what's up?

They go to the elevators, wait with CHATTY CARD COLLECTORS

[Pete Rose this, Pete Rose that].

Twelfth floor. ANN and JOHN step out of the elevator, look

for 1204.

LETOUR, a step behind, is all eyes, all ears.

ANN checks the number, rings the bell.

THOMAS lets them in the standard issue suite, locks the door.

LETOUR was right: it's a set-up. THOMAS and a TEENAGE CUBAN

stand either side of them, waistbands conspicuously bulging.

No TIS. JOHN turns to ANN:

ANN's confused, then furious: she had no part in the "set-

up." In fact, she doesn't even know it's a set-up.

Bursting rage, she turns on THOMAS, YELLS:

She slaps THOMAS, pulls the 9mm from his waistband, throws

it to the carpet.

The CUBAN watches bewildered, gun drawn, awaiting

instructions. Now ANN's on him:

THOMAS and the CUBAN TEEN retrieve their guns; ANN unlocks

the door.

She turns defiantly. TIS enters from bedroom:

TIS looks to THOMAS and the CUBAN: they lower their weapons.

He only means to threaten LETOUR.

She hesitates.

ANN gets it. Fear hits:

Opens door.

THOMAS fixes his gun on ANN.

ANN computes, bolts out, flees, SCREAMING at the top of her

lungs:

The fire bell rings.

THOMAS, TIS, and the CUBAN stare dumbfounded.

LETOUR reaches behind his shirt in the confusion, yanks out

the .38 with a painful rip, turning, fires point-blank into

the Cuban's chest. BLAM! Shirt fabric flares, flies: the

CUBAN falls with blank expression.

THOMAS, off guard, wheels and fires wildly at LETOUR.

JOHN fires back. Both are hit. TIS ducks into the bedroom.

THOMAS and LETOUR fire again, again -- hitting, missing. A

bullet hits its mark: THOMAS, frozen, grabs his blood-spurting

throat, slumps to floor.

LETOUR bleeds from the stomach and shoulder. His shirt soaks

red; he struggles to stand. CUBAN and THOMAS -- both dead.

LETOUR checks the .38: five rounds fired -- one left.

LETOUR staggers into the bedroom, finds TIS frantically

searching an open suitcase. Off-screen VOICES under the fire

bell.

LETOUR steps to TIS, aims, shoots him barrel to forehead.

Exit debris hits the wall. He is dead.

Off-screen screams of guests are countered by commands from

hotel security: "Get down!" "Get back!" Fire horns and sirens

reverb from the street.

LETOUR, losing consciousness, sits bedside. Gun slips from

his hand.

Deflating, he drifts back-first to the bedspread. Blood

spreads. His eyes are open.

POLICE VOICES approach.

EVERY GRAIN OF SAND

Prison waiting area. ANN, wearing a wool suit, waits among

black/Hispanic FRIENDS and RELATIVES. The first scene without

LETOUR: she sits quietly. A CORRECTIONS OFFICER instructs

the visitors to proceed.

ANN walks through a concrete corridor, finds the visiting

area.

LETOUR, in prison fatigues, sits at a table. He sees her,

smiles.

ANN sits down. This is not her first visit.

Checks watch.

The tableau fades.

