A battered 35mm movie camera stands alone on a wooden tripod

surrounded by blackness. Opening credits begin. An almost

imperceptible DOLLY in toward the movie camera. The dolly

forward continues throughout the credits ending in an EXTREME

CU of the camera's lens, filling the frame like a giant,

glass full moon. Fade to BLACK.

Suddenly a door opens directly in front of the camera, wiping

the lens and revealing the following scene in Black and White.

EXT. STREET. NYC. NIGHT

A quiet, deserted industrial street. It is over an hour before

dawn and the street is still cloaked in the heavy stillness

of night.

In the weak light filtering out of their battered van, BERT

and CYBIL -- the Craft Service Managers, finish setting out

breakfast supplies on a 6' table. They work in almost complete

silence, both nearly paralyzed with sleep. A cheap walkie-

talkie, lying beside a paper plate of soggy Oreos, sputters

and buzzes occasionally. Other items on the table include a

mangled banana, seven grapes, and a box of chocolate covered

donuts.

At that moment a large truck grinds around the corner and

shudders to a stop in front of the building. Bert replaces

the carton of milk neatly beside the orange juice.

EXT. STREET. NYC. NIGHT. B/W

Amid low, one-word greetings, the CREW tumbles out of the

trucks and stands in a groggy cluster around the Craft Service

table. WOLF -- the Cameraman, assumes a place of prominence.

He wears a black leather coat, a black beret, and black

leather half-fingered gloves.

INT. CAR. NIGHT. B/W

NICOLE sits quietly in the back seat of a beat-up station

wagon. She glances out at the empty city moving past her

window and lets out a deep sigh.

JEFF, the young intern assigned as her driver, glances into

the rearview mirror.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. NIGHT. B/W

CU sidewalk. A pair of women's orthopedic shoes enter the

frame and begin pacing.

Camera pans up to reveal CORA, a small woman in her early

60s, pacing beneath the awning of her residential hotel. She

appears to be rehearsing dialogue with herself.

Jeff pulls the car up to the curb and Cora gets into the

back seat.

INT. CAR. NIGHT. B/W

Cora immediately lights a cigarette. Nicole instinctively

wrinkles her nose and turns away. Cora notices this and makes

an exaggerated effort to keep the smoke away from Nicole by

blowing it hard out the side of her mouth. Jeff glances back

at the two women in the rearview mirror. No one speaks.

INT. SET. DAWN. B/W

NICK -- the Director, WOLF -- the Cameraman and WANDA -- the

AD, stand in a loose triangle on the darkened set. All are

holding coffee cups. The Gaffer can be seen in the background

fumbling with a light.

Suddenly the Gaffer turns on the 5K, flooding the room with

harsh, blinding light.

The screen goes completely WHITE.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

Screen is still white. Gradually it shifts back to proper

exposure revealing NICOLE in Medium CU. Her eyes are riveting;

it is obvious she is emotionally primed for the scene. A

light meter is thrust in front of her face. She barely

registers it.

WS, the entire Living Room set. Nicole sits on a sofa facing

Cora seated opposite in an overstuffed chair. Two flats have

been joined at right angles to create the Living Room corner.

A table lamp and assorted framed photographs complete the

rather scrawny looking set.

Most of the movie crew is seen, including Wolf looking through

the camera.

Nick approaches Nicole and Cora.

Nick moves behind the camera and looks through the eyepiece.

Another CU of Nicole fills the frame. The image is visually

and emotionally breathtaking.

Nick grips Wolf's shoulder in gratitude.

INT. APT. THE SCENE: TAKE 1. COLOR

From the moment Nick calls "action" the film will cut directly

to the shot the set camera is filming. The shot is fluid,

graceful and in richly, beautiful COLOR. Nicole's performance

is very strong; flawed only slightly by her nervousness.

Nicole turns to Cora with the heartbreaking gaze of an

abandoned child. Nick and the rest of the crew watch in awe.

Suddenly the BOOM dips all the way into the shot.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

All the crew move around, all talking at once.

Nick approaches Nicole and Cora.

INT. APT. THE SCENE: TAKE 2. COLOR

The image suddenly goes out of focus.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

INT. APT. THE SCENE: TAKE 3. COLOR

The scene begins once again. Remarkably, Nicole's enormous

commitment is just as full and sharp. Nick is in ecstasy.

Suddenly a car stops right outside, a heavy, bass-driven rap

song blasting out of its trunk-mounted speakers.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

Everyone nods in annoyed agreement; everyone except the Boom

man who appears to be following the music with the mike,

bopping to it through the headphones. Slowly, interminably,

the music fades off into the distance.

INT. SET APT. THE SCENE: TAKE 4. COLOR

Suddenly the BOOM drops into frame again.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

Nick looks for Nicole but sees only Cora standing by the

couch. Les has both arms up the back of her dress, running

the wire to her radio mike. She's wearing stockings rolled

down to just above her knees.

Nick turns and spots Nicole by herself in a dark corner of

the set and walks over to her.

INT. SET APT. A CORNER. DAY. B/W

Nick moves back to the set, leaving Nicole in the shadows.

Camera stays on her as she begins emotionally preparing

herself once again.

Camera slips halfway through an open bedroom door, holding

Nicole on one side of the frame while revealing PAM the Script

Supervisor and CYBIL sitting on the floor smoking. Though

separated by the wall, Nicole hears everything the two women

say.

Camera slips into a CU of Nicole. She closes her eyes as the

two women continue talking about her. Screen goes BLACK.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

A BLACK scrim, held by the Gaffer, passes in front of the

camera, revealing the set with Nicole and Cora settling in

for a take.

Wolf quickly motions Gaffer to hand-hold the scrim in front

of the 5K.

INT. SET APT. THE SCENE: TAKE 5. COLOR

Once again the scene begins. Nicole shows the first signs of

losing her concentration.

Suddenly there is a tremendous EXPLOSION sending bits of

glass flying through the frame. Cora jumps, clutching her

chest.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

CU the light the Gaffer had been holding the scrim before.

It is smoking and shattered.

Cora nods wordlessly, gasping for breath.

INT. APT. HALLWAY. DAY. B/W

Nick, Cora, and Nicole stand in a corner of the landing.

Nick is making obvious attempts to lighten the mood.

Nick turns to Nicole and stops in midsentence. He looks at

her for a long moment. Nicole returns his gaze then suddenly

looks away.

Nick hesitates a moment then rushes back to the set.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

Nick joins Wanda and Wolf on the set couch and chair.

Nick moves off. Wanda stares at Wolf who studiously inspects

his light meter.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

Camera is close on the black-and-white clapboard. Nicole's

face can be partially seen behind it.

INT. SET APT. THE SCENE: TAKE 6. COLOR

As the scene begins again, it is obvious that both actresses

are completely distracted. Nick's face betrays a rapidly

increasing anxiety.

There is a long awkward pause as Cora realizes she can't

remember her line.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

Amid general tittering from the crew, Wanda yells out.

INT. SET APT. THE SCENE: TAKE 7. COLOR

The scene begins again. Nicole is lifeless; she's merely

saying the lines.

Nicole stops cold, completely thrown by Cora jumping her

line.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

Nick's voice has the rigid tremble of someone barely able to

keep from screaming.

INT. SET APT. THE COUCH. DAY. B/W

Nicole gets up quietly and sits next to Cora on the couch,

wordlessly taking her hand in hers.

She means it. Cora glances up at her, seeing for the first

time how pain and defeat have drawn the life from Nicole's

face. On an impulse Cora reaches out and gently lifts a strand

of Nicole's hair from her eyes.

A sudden amazed alarm fills Nicole. The living room grows

strangely quiet.

CU Nicole. She looks quickly toward Nick in confusion.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM. DAY. COLOR

DISSOLVE to a nurse moving quickly past the camera and out

the open door of the hospital room.

CU Nicole, seated on the edge of the hospital bed. Still

confused, she looks down at the old woman lying in the bed.

The woman's face is pale and drawn. As Nicole leans closer

her mother reaches out and gently brushes a strand of hair

away from her face. The gesture is one of love, acceptance,

and farewell. It is identical to the one we have just seen

Cora make to her.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

WS, the Living Room Set. Nick, Wanda, the rest of the crew

standing quietly. Nicole glances over at Cora and instantly

something unspoken and unexplained passes between them. The

run-through begins.

From the moment Nicole opens her mouth it is obvious there

has been a remarkable change in her. Every word now has the

stunning clarity of truth. Cora is completely engulfed in

the moment.

As Nicole continues, one by one the crew turn and watch this

exquisite moment happening before them. Nick's face is lit

with rapture.

He glances over and to his horror sees that no one is behind

the camera. He whispers frantically to the AC.

Nick turns back to the scene, watching its beauty now in

agony.

There is a heavy, stunned silence as the scene ends. Nicole

and Cora are in each other's arms. Pam and Cybil share a

piece of tissue. CUT TO: an extreme CU of Nick.

INT. BATHROOM. DAY. B/W

In the cramped confines of the dingy basement bathroom, Wolf

pukes violently into the toilet. His face is pale and slick

with perspiration. His eyes look upward toward the sound of

Nick yelling.

Wolf tries to continue but another spasm of nausea wrenches

him back toward the toilet bowl.

INT. SET APT. THE COUCH. DAY. B/W

The set is quiet, subdued. Nick sits on the couch with Nicole

and Cora. Wolf sits groggily behind the camera wiping the

sweat from his face. Wanda addresses the crew.

Nick speaks uneasily to Nicole and Cora. He is a wreck and

his insistent smile of encouragement looks absolutely

demented.

Nick walks over and stands beside the camera.

INT. SET APT. BY THE CAMERA. DAY. B/W

Nick is so angry he can't even look at Wolf.

INT. SET APT. THE SCENE: PICKUP 1. COLOR

The scene begins at the pickup point. Miraculously, both

Cora and Nicole are just as concentrated and engaged as they

were in the run-through.

In the middle of this final, delicate moment an insistent

electronic beeping is heard.

INT. SET APT. DAY. B/W

The beep continues, growing louder.

Everybody holds their watches up to their ears.

And so on, until all watches have been checked with negative

results. The beeping continues, growing louder and louder.

Suddenly Nick loses it. He starts running around the set,

ripping things apart, knocking over tables, lamps, chairs.

He shoves Cora off the couch and whips off the cushions,

heaving them against the wall with a startling violence.

Everyone watches Nick demolish the set in stunned, open-

mouthed amazement. Nick turns to the crew in rage.

Nick loses it completely.

CU of Nicole. She turns away, unable to watch anymore. The

beeping continues.

WS, the entire room. Nick's last word echoes throughout the

silent set. Suddenly he stops in the center of the demolished

set and lets out a long, wrenching scream.

INT. BEDROOM. NIGHT. COLOR

QUICK CUT TO extreme CU Nick's face, just as his eyes open.

The film is in COLOR now. The room is in heavy darkness except

for the light on Nick's face. Nick reaches over and shuts

off his clock radio. The digital dial shows 4:00 A.M. The

beeping finally stops.

Nick turns on a light and sits up in bed, drenched in sweat

and still breathing heavily.

The camera DOLLIES swiftly back away from Nick. He stares at

it in stunned amazement. Just then a DOOR closes right into

the lens turning the frame into complete BLACKNESS.

Out of the BLACKNESS a door opens away from the camera

revealing WANDA looking into her closet (the camera is inside

the closet). From this point on, the rest of the film is in

COLOR except where specifically indicated to be Black and

White.

INT. WANDA'S APT. DAWN

She is wearing only a bra, black stretch pants, and cowboy

boots. She rummages quickly through some blouses, selects

the same garish one she wore in Part One, then walks away

revealing WOLF sitting on the edge of the rumpled bed. He is

dressed exactly the same as when we last saw him, complete

with beret. He struggles groggily into his socks and boots.

The entire apartment is in disarray. A bedside clock reads

4:13 A.M.

Wanda playfully swipes at Wolf's face with a negligee she is

returning to the closet. It misses him completely.

Wanda sits and perfunctorily examines Wolf's eye.

INT. CAR. DAWN

The car is parked outside a rather seedy hotel. JEFF, the

Intern and NICK, the Director, sit quietly in the motionless

car.

Nick lets out a huge yawn.

INT. HOTEL ROOM. DAWN

In the dim light of the hotel room, CHAD PALOMINO dresses

quickly. He is young, handsome, with long blond hair. A WOMAN

sits nude on the bed, her back to the camera. The faint sound

of a shower comes from the adjacent bathroom.

Palomino slips out the door. The woman falls back onto the

bed, turning her face toward the camera. We see it is NICOLE.

She lies for a moment, listening to the sound of the shower.

The bedside clock reads 4:30 A.M.

INT. CAR. DAWN

The car pulls up outside a NYC apt building. Jeff, Nick, and

Palomino sit inside.

The three men sit in silence. WS, showing the car parked

outside Nicole's apt, the men inside waiting.

INT. THE SET. MORNING

A small, elegant bedroom set has been constructed in the

middle of the huge empty space. One wall has a fake window.

The GAFFER lies on the bed staring absently at the AC sitting

motionless beside the camera a few feet away. Neither speaks

for a long moment.

The Gaffer tugs a thin, tattered SCRIPT, folded lengthwise,

out of his back pocket.

Suddenly the Gaffer reaches out and warmly shakes the AC's

hand.

INT. MAKEUP CORNER. DAY

Nicole sits before the makeup mirror. LORDE, the male Makeup

artist picks up a tube of Preparation H and begins applying

it under Nicole's eyes just as Nick walks up.

Something in Nick's voice makes Nicole glance up at him. He

looks away quickly. The moment is awkward, as if they both

realize he has inadvertently revealed something. Just then

Palomino approaches.

Nick looks at both of them in a moment of silence.

Lorde reenters as Nick leaves. Palomino sits in the chair

beside Nicole and Lorde immediately begins his makeup. No

one speaks.

INT. THE SET. DAY

The crew is assembled behind the camera. Wolf is now wearing

a black eyepatch over one eye. Nick is on the set, talking

with Nicole and Palomino. Palomino wears a tuxedo and Nicole

is in an elaborate low-cut gown.

INT. THE SET. TAKE ONE

Instantly the film cuts from color to B/W. Chad and Nicole

begin their Love Scene.

The camera starts to dolly, however Chad does not move. He

goes out of frame forcing Wolf to pan abruptly to Nicole.

Palomino and Nicole embrace. Their kiss, like the entire

scene, is flat, lifeless, and awful.

INT. THE SET

Nick approaches the bed and speaks quietly to Chad and Nicole.

INT. THE SCENE. TAKE TWO. DAY

Palomino moves immediately to the bed, changing his blocking

and causing the camera crew and Nicole considerable confusion.

The scene once again is awful. Nick gives their listless

kiss a few moments then calls CUT.

INT. THE SET. DAY

As Nick, Nicole, and Palomino step off the set Wanda speaks

to the crew in general.

Wolf doesn't answer, though he stands a mere foot away,

watching the Gaffer set up a light.

Wolf walks away from Wanda without a word. The entire crew

watches this.

INT. A CORNER. DAY

Nick, Palomino, and Nicole confer, all three smoking.

INT. THE SET. DAY

INT. THE SCENE. TAKE THREE. DAY

Palomino saunters over and sprawls on the bed, forcing Nicole

to turn her head completely away from the camera.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Nicole remains seated on the bed, lowering her head and

closing her eyes as she attempts to generate some emotion

for the scene. Everyone watches her in complete silence.

INT. NEAR THE CAMERA. DAY

Palomino tiptoes over to the camera where Wanda and the

Scriptgirl are standing side by side. As he leans between

them, checking his lines on the Scriptgirl's script, he

inhales deeply then exhales with a barely audible sigh.

Thinking he means her, Wanda's lips flutter in a brief,

involuntary smile. Meanwhile, the Scriptgirl turns away,

blushing furiously.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Palomino tiptoes again back to his spot. Nicole raises her

head and nods once to Nick. She seems to have aroused some

real emotion in herself.

Nick pauses, thinking hard.

INT. CRAFT SERVICE TABLE. DAY

Several members of the crew loiter around the table. The

Scriptgirl approaches carrying a donut in one hand and a cup

of coffee in the other. Palomino notices her and moves quietly

to her side. Without a word he picks up the milk and pours

some in her coffee. Nicole stands nearby and watches the

following exchange.

Palomino puts sugar in her coffee with extreme care.

Palomino smiles and moves away just as Wanda comes up for a

coffee refill.

Nicole approaches.

Wanda chokes hard on her coffee as Nicole walks off with a

bitter smile.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Palomino saunters onto the set as Wolf and his crew finish

relighting.

Wolf walks off. The Gaffer slips the AC a shrewd wink then

walks over and stands next to Palomino, giving him a big,

friendly grin.

The Gaffer slips his own script out of his back pocket and

begins leafing through it.

Palomino takes the Gaffer's script and holds it up to his

eyes, shading them from a light he's looking at across the

room. He points to the light.

Palomino hands the Gaffer back his script and walks off. The

Gaffer and AC stand in silence for a long awkward moment.

INT. BATHROOM. DAY

Nick intently scrutinizes himself in the mirror. Leaning

closer he makes a careful adjustment to the way his hair

falls over his ear, then steps back to examine himself.

Suddenly the door opens behind him and Nicole walks in.

The two stand in embarrassed silence for a moment. Nick looks

like he's gathering the nerve to ask her out.

Nick hesitates, again gathering his nerves to pop the

question.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Wanda crosses the set and assumes her position beside the

camera. Wolf sits behind it, barely a foot away.

Nick suddenly runs up just as Wolf and Wanda are on the verge

of blows.

Nick suddenly sees Palomino is wearing a black eyepatch.

Palomino removes the eyepatch and tosses it back to Wolf.

Nick pulls Palomino aside and whispers to him confidentially.

Palomino sneaks a glance back at Wolf then whispers to Nick.

Palomino winks at Nick and walks back to his new mark, making

a barely audible howling sound behind his hand.

INT. THE SCENE. TAKE FOUR

The scene begins again. Palomino milks his Close-up for all

it's worth.

Right on his cue, Palomino walks to the bed. As the camera

moves into the 2-shot he begins stroking Nicole's hair with

extreme care and concentration.

Under the onslaught of escalating hair-stroking, Nicole

suddenly jerks her head away hard. Palomino jumps up and

begins pacing at the rear of the set.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Palomino suddenly stops pacing and addresses Nick with a

curtness that is a little startling.

Palomino disappears behind the set, a jerk of his head

indicating his wish for Nick to follow him.

The Sound man gives Nicole his headphones and rewinds the

tape recorder for her. The first several lines of the last

take are heard through the headphones.

INT. OFF THE SET. DAY

Nick follows Palomino behind the set, stopping just beside

the fake set window. Palomino whirls on Nick and whispers

fiercely.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Nicole listens to the last line of the previous take.

The Sound man stops the recorder at the end of the take,

sets the machine in standby mode, and picks up his crossword

puzzle. Nicole is just about to take off the headphones when

she realizes she can hear Nick and Palomino talking quite

clearly. Glancing up, she sees the Boom man has left his

boom leaning against the wall, the mike pointing out the

open set window.

The camera begins a slow DOLLY in to Nicole's astonished

face. This will be intercut with a similar DOLLY in to the

microphone leaning against the wall, ending in an ECU of the

mike.

INT. OFF THE SET. DAY

Camera is close on Nick and Palomino.

INT. THE SET. DAY

The camera reveals Nicole now seated in her spot on the bed.

She rises as Nick and Palomino reappear and approach her

from behind the set.

Nick and Palomino stare at Nicole for a moment.

Nick's smile of gratitude to Nicole looks almost drug-induced.

Although Wolf says this quite loud, Palomino doesn't hear

him because he suddenly yells:

INT. THE SCENE. TAKE FIVE. THE IMPROV

Nicole stays seated, though Palomino moves around making a

great show of loosening up.

Palomino is somewhat startled by this. He looks to Nick in

confusion. Nick silently encourages him to keep going.

Nick and the rest of the crew stand in stunned amazement.

Palomino snaps, and lunges for Nicole. She leaps to the other

side of the bed.

Nick steps between Nicole and Palomino.

Palomino suddenly punches Nick in the stomach, leaving him

bent over and gasping for breath. Nicole instantly leaps on

Palomino's back and begins pounding her fist on the top of

his head. Palomino spins wildly trying to dislodge her as

Wanda rushes forward.

As she tries to separate Nicole and Palomino, Palomino shoves

her hard, knocking her down. Instantly Wolf leaps off the

camera and runs up to Palomino.

Palomino suddenly punches Wolf in the teeth, dropping him

like a stone.

Suddenly Nick staggers to his feet and rushes at Palomino.

His momentum knocks all three backwards onto the bed,

Palomino's head cracking Nicole in the teeth.

Nicole rolls free as Nick and Palomino wrestle on the bed.

Nick gets Palomino in a vicious headlock and starts pounding

his head against the mattress.

As Nick continues to pound Palomino's head the Gaffer notices

Palomino's eyes are starting to bug out from the pressure of

Nick's forearm around his neck. He and the Boom man rush

forward and finally manage to pry Palomino free.

As the Gaffer and Boom man drag off the almost unconscious

Palomino, the Scriptgirl takes one faltering step after him.

Suddenly, everything becomes quiet except for Nick's labored

breathing and the Scriptgirl's sniffles. Nick leans over and

touches Nicole's shoulder.

EXT. DAY. THE STREET OUTSIDE THE SET

The Gaffer and AC help the still-groggy Palomino into the

back of the production van. JEFF, the driver, watches them

in sleepy curiosity.

With Palomino safely propped in a seat, the AC goes back to

the set. The Gaffer waits a moment then slips his script out

of his back pocket and slaps it into Palomino's motionless

hand.

As Palomino stares at him blankly, the Gaffer slams the door.

The car pulls out.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Nick and Nicole are sitting up on the bed, alone on the now

empty set.

Nicole sits for a long moment in stunned silence.

Nick and Nicole move into a shy, trembling, heartfelt kiss.

INT. HOTEL ROOM. DAWN

Nicole snaps awake with a jolt. She glances quickly at the

clock which reads 4:35. The sound of the shower still running

in the bathroom.

Nicole leaps out of bed and races into the bathroom. As the

camera follows her, she closes the bathroom door, right

against the lens, turning the image to total BLACKNESS.

The frame is BLACK. The recognizable clatter and clunk of

the FILM CREW is heard. Wanda's voice is prominent.

Suddenly a DOOR opens away from camera and the AC stops, a

foot away from the lens. Behind him, Wanda and the rest of

the crew can be seen through the door, preparing for filming.

We see now the door and the plywood walls around it are FAKE.

INT. THE SET. DAY

The AC rushes past and a moment later the camera DOLLIES

slowly through the fake door toward Wanda pacing near the

set camera.

INT. SET BUILDING, HALLWAY. DAY

The AC bursts through a door at the end of the hallway and

walks quickly toward the camera. Without knocking he pushes

open the bathroom door and suddenly stops short.

Standing on his tiptoes at the sink, straining to turn off

the running faucet is, TITO a DWARF. He is dressed in a sky

blue tuxedo with tails. A top hat and white gloves rest on

the closed toilet seat. Tito appears extremely annoyed.

Tito grabs his hat and gloves and marches down the hall, the

AC staring after him in astonishment.

INT. WARDROBE ROOM. DAY

Camera is close on Nicole, her eyes clenched shut as a thin

white veil is placed on her head. Camera pulls back to reveal

SACHIKO, the Costume Designer putting the finishing touches

to Nicole's costume, which appears to be an elaborate white

wedding gown. Nick stands nearby, smoking.

Just then Tito walks in.

Tito walks out, followed immediately by Sachiko, leaving

Nicole alone with Nick.

Nicole stares at Nick for a long moment then smiles briefly

and turns away.

INT. A CORNER OF THE SET. DAY

A dented, ancient smoke machine squats forlornly in the middle

of the set. WOLF (with eyepatch), the GAFFER, AC, BOOM MAN,

and the SOUND MAN stand around it, scrutinizing it intently.

Wolf seems in an unusually good mood.

Wolf walks off. The Gaffer kneels to inspect the smoke machine

closer.

INT. THE SET. NEAR THE CAMERA

Wanda stands alone by the camera, looking around at the

bustling crew like a battalion commander watching her troops

in battle. Nick approaches her.

Nick walks off quickly, muttering to himself. A moment later

Wolf strolls up to Wanda.

Wanda and Wolf move into an extremely wooden embrace.

Wanda slips Wolf a tender smile then walks away.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Nick is working with the crew and the actors. The set consists

of two flats (one with the fake door) joined to make a corner.

The flats are painted fire-engine red.

For a moment Nick looks like he might snap back at Wolf but

he draws a deep breath and continues.

The fake door opens and Tito enters wearing his top hat and

carrying a golden apple in his gloved hands.

The AC moves up to Nick and places a piece of yellow tape on

the floor. CU the yellow tape.

The Gaffer turns on the smoke machine which emits a pathetic

wisp of smoke that immediately dissipates.

The Gaffer adjusts a knob and another thin puff of smoke

wheezes out.

INT. THE DREAM. TAKE ONE. DAY

Nicole stands motionless in the middle of the empty set. Her

white wedding gown stands out sharply against the deep red

walls. A sad shred of smoke drifts by her head.

Tito opens the door and walks in, staring hard at Nicole.

His sky-blue tuxedo gleams in the rich light. He walks around

her in a circle holding the golden apple just beyond her

reach. He stops on his mark and the camera dollies into a CU

of him. He doesn't laugh. Nick watches this for a moment in

intense concentration.

INT. THE SET. DAY

CU Tito looking none too happy about this representation.

INT. THE DREAM. TAKE TWO

Nicole stands motionless as a few more emaciated puffs of

smoke hang in the air.

Tito enters, walks around her holding the apple just beyond

her reach then moves to his mark. The camera dollies into a

CU. He does not laugh.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Nick's tone with Nicole suddenly takes on an almost

imperceptible edge, tinged with annoyance.

Everyone watches Nick demonstrate the laugh. He seems unaware

he resembles a drunken, slightly annoyed idiot.

There is a strained moment of silence on the set as everyone

witnesses this rebuke.

Nick follows Wolf off the set.

INT. A CORNER. DAY

As soon as Wolf and Nick reach the darkened corner, Wolf

whirls to face Nick.

Wolf is about to yell back at Nick when suddenly he stops

and lets out a deep, painful sigh.

Wolf makes a slight motion with his head toward Wanda who is

standing some distance away watching them. Seeing the two

men looking at her Wanda shoots them a hard glare which

prompts Wolf and Nick to turn away quickly.

Nick lets out a tense, strained laugh but Wolf's only response

is to stare back at him sadly.

Wolf lets out another deep sigh.

INT. A CORNER OF THE SET. DAY

The Gaffer, Boom man, and AC kneel around the smoke machine.

A can of gas and a quart of oil stand beside them.

The Gaffer and Boom man turn and look at the AC for a long

moment.

The Gaffer and Boom man pour liberal amounts of gas and oil

into the T-160.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Nick rushes up to his position by the camera.

INT. THE DREAM. TAKE THREE

Nicole stands motionless in her white wedding dress, looking

genuinely alarmed, possibly because of the huge clouds of

smoke now spewing out of the panting smoke machine.

Tito enters, stares at her hard and walks around her in a

circle holding the apple just beyond her reach. The smoke is

so thick both of them are barely visible. Just as Tito gets

to his mark the smoke machine backfires with a tremendous

explosion and begins filling the room with dense, blinding

smoke.

INT. THE SET. DAY

The smoke blanks out the entire frame. Frantic shouts are

heard from unseen bodies.

The smoke machine emits a loud hiss and dies, filling the

room with sudden silence. Slowly the smoke begins to clear

as the crew moves around muttering and coughing.

A pair of fuzzy-slippered feet enter the smoky frame. The

camera BOOMS up, passing over a woman's bare shins, a

flowered, blue silk housecoat until finally coming to rest

on the pleasantly smiling face of CORA. This is the same

woman who played Ellen's Mother in Part One; she is dressed

exactly the same as she was in their scene. The camera pulls

back to reveal JEFF the Intern standing nervously beside her

with a red notebook in his hands.

Nick gapes in utter astonishment.

INT. THE SET PRODUCTION OFFICE. DAY

Wanda speaks urgently into the phone while Nicole stands

beside her. Jeff (still wearing his hat) waits at a distance

clutching Nick's red notebook.

Nicole turns away and walks past Jeff to the Craft Service

table.

Nicole nods politely then looks to the Makeup corner where

Nick sits talking earnestly to his mother.

INT. MAKEUP CORNER

Nicole approaches, holding up the hem of her wedding gown.

There is a subtle tension smoldering between her and Nick.

INT. THE SET. DAY

The camera holds on Tito pacing slowly, alone on the set. He

is smoking fiercely, holding his top hat with one hand.

Suddenly he begins laughing in a loud, stage bellow.

INT. A CORNER OF THE SET. DAY

Nick sets a chair for his mother and helps her sit down.

Nicole joins Tito on the set and talks quietly to him.

Tito glances up at her quickly.

INT. THE SET. NEAR THE CAMERA. DAY

Wanda and Wolf stand beside each other in tense, awkward

silence for a long moment.

Wolf looks as if he's about to burst into tears as Nick walks

up.

Wolf meets Nick's eyes and gives an extremely melancholy

nod. Nick turns to address Nicole and Tito and the edge

immediately slips back into his voice.

Nicole glares at Nick for a moment then abruptly turns and

walks off the set. Nick stares after her in confusion then

quickly follows her.

EXT. STREET. NYC. DAY

Nicole stands with her back to the camera as Nick strides up

to her with impatience.

Suddenly Wanda yells out.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Nick rushes back onto the set.

INT. THE DREAM. TAKE FOUR. DAY

Nicole stands motionless in her wedding gown.

Tito walks in, stares at her hard, then walks around her

once with the golden apple just beyond her outstretched hands.

He stops and the camera dollies into his CLOSE-UP. Nick

watches in hopeful expectation. He waits and waits but Tito

does not laugh.

Just then the door in the rear set wall opens and Cora steps

in, looking oddly puzzled.

INT. THE SET. DAY

INT. OFF THE SET. DAY

Nick escorts his mother back to her chair.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Nick walks back on the set and addresses Nicole and Tito.

INT. OFF THE SET. DAY

Wolf (still wearing his eyepatch) walks over and sits quietly

in a chair beside Cora. He does not speak to her and gazes

blankly out at Nick, Tito, and Nicole on the set some distance

away. Cora however stares at the side of his head with such

intensity Wolf can't help but turn to her.

Cora still doesn't take her eyes off him and in fact stares

even more intently into his eye.

Wolf glances away for a moment then looks back. Cora continues

to stare at him. Suddenly, his eye is full of tears. Cora

watches in rapt silence. Wolf is crying openly now. Cora

reveals no hint of emotion as she reaches out and gently

lifts the eyepatch off of his eye. A tight smile of

satisfaction creases her lips as a tiny pool of tears is

released, streaming quickly down Wolf's cheek. No one sees

this.

INT. THE SET. DAY

Nick paces tensely in front of Nicole and Tito.

Tito hurls his top hat and gloves to the floor and walks

out. Everyone stares at Nick who is frozen in stunned silence.

Finally Wanda approaches him hesitantly.

Nick sighs heavily and sinks to sit on the dolly in silence.

Wolf appears behind him, still wiping his eyes.

Nick's speech has the simple eloquence of truth; he is not

bitter or self-pitying. He seems unaware of how disturbing

this is to the crew. They all stand around him in shock,

afraid to move or speak. Finally Wolf turns to the AC and

puts his hand on his shoulder, like a father to his young

son.

Everyone watches the AC unfasten the camera in silence. Nicole

stands alone on the set in her wedding dress, still holding

the golden apple. Her face is frozen in dismay. Suddenly

CORA comes through the set door and marches up to Nicole.

At the sound of his mother's voice, Nick looks up. He sees

her snatch the apple from Nicole's hand and march back out

the door, closing it behind her.

INT. BY THE CAMERA. DAY

Nick gets up slowly and whispers intensely to Wanda, Wolf,

and the rest of the crew.

Wolf grabs the camera and puts it on his shoulder (hand-held)

as the rest of the crew moves quickly and silently into

position. On a terse signal from Nick the camera starts

rolling.

INT. THE SET. THE DREAM. DAY

Nicole takes the silent "action" cue from Nick.

Right on cue Cora walks through the door, holding the golden

apple out in front of her. She circles Nicole with

determination, seemingly oblivious to Nick and the rest of

the crew hovering behind Wolf as he begins following her

with the hand-held camera. Wolf is now in his element; gliding

like Nureyev with the camera. When he pans suddenly with

Cora the whole crew ducks wildly and dives out of camera

range.

Cora finally stops circling Nicole and stops abruptly.

Suddenly she raises the apple right out in front of Nicole.

Wolf glides forward with the camera, framing an amazing CU

of the apple with Nicole seen behind it. Nicole reaches out,

grabs the apple and takes a huge, resounding bite out of it.

CU Nick's face, eyes wide in anxious delight.

Cora takes one step forward. CU her fuzzy slippers stopping

right on the yellow tape mark. Cora waits momentarily until

Wolf has reframed both her and Nicole, then lets out a huge

laugh.

INT. THE SET. DAY

General mayhem erupts on the set.

Wolf slaps the AC's palm, then the Gaffer's standing right

beside him. He turns gleefully to the next person but seeing

it is Wanda he rigidly turns away.

Nick runs up to his mother and throws his arms around her.

Nicole stands beside him.

Suddenly, on an impulse surprising both of them, Nick and

Nicole embrace. Just then Wanda steps up.

The set grows suddenly quiet as Nick begins pacing rapidly,

muttering to himself.

Nick suddenly looks up and sees everybody staring at him;

Nicole in her wedding gown, Wolf with his eyepatch, his mother

still eating the apple, Wanda, the crew.

The set erupts in applause.

At that moment a door opens at the rear of the set and a

DOCTOR and NURSE enter. The Nurse carries an extra overcoat.

Jeff, the Driver, turns and sternly whispers for them to be

quiet.

INT. THE SET. DAY

The camera is wide, showing the entire set, actors, and crew.

Everyone stands in perfect silence, as motionless as statues.

As the silence continues the mood on the set gradually

changes. One by one people drift into their own private worlds

of reflection.

MS the Sound man, alternately watching his recorder and his

stopwatch. Behind him the Boom man holds the mike in position

to record general ambiance while staring off into the

distance.

CU the tape recorder spinning in quiet precision.

CU the stopwatch, its giant second hand showing five seconds

have passed.

MS Nick standing next to his mother who drapes one arm

casually over Nick's shoulder. Nick glances up and sees Nicole

beside him, absorbed in her own thoughts. Suddenly she looks

up and her eyes meet Nick's. She slips him the barest hint

of a smile.

The camera DOLLIES slowly through the standing, silent group,

passing over faces in different degrees of thought.

CU the Sound man's stopwatch, the giant second hand showing

ten seconds have passed.

MS Nick. He is so immersed in thought he looks at no one.

The camera slowly DOLLIES into a CU of him.

INT. AN AWARDS CEREMONY

CHAD PALOMINO stands at a gleaming podium, looking radiant

in an immaculate tuxedo. He holds an envelope in his hands.

Amid thunderous applause Nick bounds on the stage and accepts

an Oscar from Chad. He stands grinning like an idiot as the

applause continues.

INT. THE SET. DAY

MS Nick, still wrapped in thought, his lips starting to form

the same idiotic smile. MS Nicole. The camera DOLLIES slowly

into her face, now tinged with a slight uneasiness.

INT. A CHEAP RESTAURANT

Wide shot at the counter. Nicole stands facing a large bald

man with his back to the camera. She is wearing a cheap pink

waitress uniform and has her hair under a hairnet.

She pulls her headshot out of her shoulder bag and hands it

to the man with a hopeful smile. He flips over the headshot

and looks at her credits with confused annoyance.

INT. THE SET. DAY

MS Nicole. She jerks her head slightly in response to this

moment of thought.

CU the stopwatch, showing fifteen seconds have passed.

MS Wolf. The camera begins a slow DOLLY into his CU.

INT. WANDA'S APT. DAY

Wolf stands like Thor in the middle of the Red Set, his arms

crossed over his chest, his jaw set in determination. Smoke

billows around him. At his feet, dressed in Nicole's wedding

gown, Wanda sobs hysterically.

Wolf remains unmoved for a long moment. Finally he reaches

out with a forgiving smile and pats Wanda's head.

INT. THE SET. DAY

MS Wolf. He glances furtively at Wanda with a trace of hope

still in his eyes.

MS Wanda, looking off. The camera DOLLIES into her CU.

INT. A CHEAP HOTEL ROOM

This is the same hotel room from Part Two, in which we saw

Nicole and Chad Palomino. At the moment Wanda and Chad lie

panting in the sweat-soaked sheets.

INT. THE SET. DAY

MS Wanda. She shifts slightly and glances quickly around

her. Her smile is tinged with the hint of sexual pleasure.

MS the Gaffer, frowning, absorbed in thought. The camera

DOLLIES into a CU of him.

INT. A CHEAP RESTAURANT. DAY

Suddenly, a CU of an incredibly beautiful hamburger being

placed in a toasted bun on a gleaming white oval plate. A

hand places a garnish of parsley on it then carries the plate

to the lunch counter. Camera PANS to reveal the GAFFER sitting

on the stool. He picks up the hamburger and takes a huge

bite out of it. This shot holds for quite some time as he

continues to chew.

INT. THE SET. DAY

MS The Gaffer. A hopeful, delicious smile spreading over his

face.

CU the Sound man's stopwatch, the giant second hand showing

twenty seconds have passed.

MS Cora. She gazes serenely out before her.

INT. NURSING HOME. DAY

In the pale afternoon light, Cora stands in the middle of

her drab, barren room. She appears to be staring at the door.

Suddenly she begins striding toward it. Effortlessly, easily,

she walks right through it.

INT. AN AWARDS CEREMONY

Nick still stands at the podium with his Oscar.

INT. THE SET. DAY

MS Nick, his head and body jerking in a sudden spasm. He

finishes the last word of his speech in a choked whisper and

the Sound man frowns hard at him.

CU the Sound man's stopwatch showing twenty-five seconds

have passed. The camera stays on the watch until the final

five seconds have elapsed.

The room erupts with activity. Everyone moves and talks at

once. Nick whispers something to Nicole then runs off.

WS the set. Suddenly the fake door closes right into the

lens, turning the frame completely BLACK.

END CREDITS.

