OPENING TITLES

SLOW MOTION.  STYLIZED.  TIGHT.

The silhouette of a man and woman.  They are on a blacktop

basketball court, playing a sexually-charged game of one-one-

one.

Sweat glistens.  Hands pull at clothes.  Hips bump and

collide.  Eyes lock...

BLACK.

FADE IN:

TITLE CARD: "FIRST QUARTER" then "1981"

BALDWIN HILLS

EXT. MCCALL HOUSE - LATE MORNING

An upper middle-class neighborhood, known as the Black

Beverly Hills.  Big houses, green grass and Caddies in every

other driveway.  The street is quiet, until --

CAMERA REVEALS: QUINCY MCCALL, eleven years old, dribbling a

basketball in front of KELVIN and JAMAL, also eleven.  He

sports a fro, a "Clippers" jersey, and a serious swagger.

Quincy follows Kelvin's eyes, to a beat-up pair of Converse

All-Stars approaching from next door.  Walking in the kicks

is a YOUNG KID in a T-shirt and Tuff-skins, and a LAKERS cap

pulled low.  A moving van is parked in the driveway.

The Kid stops at the edge of Quincy's driveway.

Quincy looks the Kid up and down, then --

Quincy tosses the Kid the ball.  The Kid pulls off the

baseball cap.  Brown hair tumbles down, framing a soft brown

face and bright eyes.  She is MONICA WRIGHT, eleven years

old.

Quincy laughs derisively as Monica walks to the top of the

driveway.

Monica shoots him a glare.

Monica starts to dribble.  Jamal whistles as he walks

backwards, guarding her.  She throws up a shot.  IT'S AN

AIRBALL.  Quincy and Jamal crack up.  Kelvin rolls his eyes.

Quincy grabs the rebound and shoots.  Swish.

He rolls the ball to Monica.  She starts dribbling and again,

Jamal just backs up with her.  She passes to Kelvin.  Jamal

and Quincy collapse on him, leaving Monica open under the

basket.  Trapped Kelvin has no choice but to pass it back.

Monica catches the ball and throws up a shot.  It banks off

the backboard...AND DROPS THROUGH THE NET.  The boys look at

her in shock.  Monica tosses the ball back to Quincy.

Quincy easily dribbles by Kelvin and lays up the ball.  He

throws the ball back to Monica.

Monica dribbles.  Jamal plays her a little tighter.  Monica

bounces the ball through his open legs and lays up the ball.

Quincy can't believe it.  Kelvin cracks up.

The game continues, with Quincy and Monica trading baskets

for their teams.  Quincy grows agitated with Jamal, who is

unable to stop her.  The score hits nine, nine.

Quincy stands at the top of the driveway, ball in hand.

Quincy dribbles through his legs, then pops an outside shot.

The ball bounces on the rim...and rolls off.

Quincy curses as Monica grabs the rebound and clears the

ball.  Jamal moves to guard her, but Quincy shoves him off.

Quincy defends.  Monica smiles back at him.

Monica suddenly passes to Kelvin, sprints for the basket.

Quincy stumbles, giving her a step.  Kelvin throws it back.

Quincy knows he's beat as Monica goes for the winning lay-up.

In desperation, he swings at her for the hard foul, shoving

her off balance.

THE BALL FLIES FROM HER HAND AS SHE CRASHES TO THE GROUND,

FACE-FIRST.  SHE GRABS HER CHEEK.  BLOOD SLIPS THROUGH HER

FINGERS.

The boys stand frozen.  Quincy stares down at her, his eyes

wide with fear...and regret.

INT. WRIGHT HOUSE - BATHROOM - LATE MORNING

Monica leans over the sink as her mother, CAMILLE, 36, wipes

the blood from her face with a washcloth.

Her sister, LENA, 14, leans in the doorway, making a face.

She is a mirror of their mother, with relaxed hair and

painted nails.

Her father, NATHAN, 39, moves behind Lena, holding a box.

Monica nods.  He smiles.

He gives Monica a wink, crosses away.  Monica pulls the

washcloth away from her Mom and starts wiping the blood

herself.

She exits.  Lena shakes her head, follows.

Monica pulls the washcloth from her face and stares into the

mirror.  TORN SKIN SURROUNDS A SMALL DEEP GASH IN HER CHEEK.

Seeing her latest battle scar, there's only one thing left

for this little girl to do.  She smiles.

INT. MCCALL HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Quincy sits at the kitchen table, writing "I AM SORRY" in

block letters across a homemade card.  His face is tight with

concentration as he tries to write in a straight line.

At the counter, his mom, NONA, moves a cake from its store

box to a cake dish.  She is 30, beautiful, with effort.  She

smooths the frosting with a spoon.

ZEKE, 32, with the height and ego of an NBA ballplayer,

enters.  He laughs.

Quincy looks up, smiles.  He quickly grabs a piece of

crumpled paper, and tosses it to Zeke.

Nona intercepts his pass.

She points him back to his card.  Quincy scowls, starts

writing again.  Nona scoops some frosting on her finger,

holds it up.

Zeke wraps his lips around her finger, sucks the frosting

off.

Nona laughs, pulls him down for a kiss.  Quincy suddenly

throws down his pencil in frustration.

Zeke and Nona pull away, stare at Quincy in shock.

Nona just shakes her head.

Zeke grabs his keys.

Zeke exits.  Nona leans against the counter, concerned.

Camille and Nona stand among the piles of boxes.  Monica and

Quincy stand at their mothers' sides, stealing glances at

each other.  A large bandage covers Monica's cheek.  Monica

holds her card, Camille holds the cake.

Camille tries to smooth down Monica's unruly hair.  Monica

moves her head.

Quincy looks up at his Mom, surprised.  She quickly hugs his

face into her stomach.  Camille lights up.

Quincy snickers.  Nona quickly changes the subject.

Camille hands Monica the cake.

Camille and Nona head down the hall, leaving Monica and

Quincy alone.  The two just stand there.

Quincy reaches out, scoops a finger of frosting, and pops it

in his mouth.  Beat, then Monica takes a bigger scoop.

Quincy is impressed.

He shows off a flurry of punches.

Monica puts the cake down on a box, does a couple of kicks

and hand movements.  Quincy is impressed.

Quincy does a jump kick.  Monica does the same.

Quincy takes a couple steps back, then does a cartwheel.  It

looks great, until he crashes into the box with the cake.

The cake falls onto his head and shoulder.

Monica doubles over, laughing.  Quincy is embarrassed.

Camille and Nona rush back into the living room.

Camille quickly crosses into the kitchen.  Quincy stares at

the floor.

Nona bends down, whispers in his ear.

INT. WRIGHT HOUSE - MONICA'S ROOM - NIGHT

Monica sits between Lena's legs, grimacing, as Lena works a

comb through her freshly washed, kinky hair.  Monica's head

flops like a rag doll.  Her eyes are wet.

Lena keeps tugging.

Monica punches her in the leg.

Lena yanks Monica's head back as Camille enters, carrying a

yellow dress on a hanger.  Monica sees it and her face falls.

Monica sulks.  Lena cackles in her ear.  Camille has to

laugh.

Camille rubs her temples, then hangs the dress on the door.

Just then, Nathan enters.  He holds up two dress shirts as if

it were a matter of life and death.

Camille nods.  Nathan looks at both of them, then:

He kisses her on the cheek, hands her the two shirts and

crosses out.  Monica just watches.  Beat, then Camile turns

back to her daughters.

Monica reacts, surprised.  Camille leaves.  Lena puts the

comb back to Monica's hair.  Beat, then:

INT. MCCALL HOUSE - QUINCY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Basketball posters, "Clippers" and USC memorabilia, a

basketball globe light.

Quincy lays tucked in bed, eyes wide open, listening to his

parents MAKING LOVE.  The sounds bring a smile to his face.

Quincy climbs out of bed, wearing underwear.  He moves to his

window, sees Monica through her window directly across from

his.  Her eyes are closed as Lena braids her hair.  Quincy

kneels down, rests his arms on the window sill, and watches.

Quincy sits atop his BMX bike in front of Monica's house.  A

basketball is tucked under his arm.

Monica emerges, walking her banana-seater.  She is looking

cute in her yellow dress and braids tied with ribbons.  A

basketball sits in her back basket.

Quincy is taken aback, stares at her.

Monica blinks in surprise.  She thinks for a moment.

An awkward beat between the new couple.  Finally --

The two glance around, then climb off their bikes and walk to

the secluded area between their two houses.

Monica nods.  They lean in, eyes wide open, and touch lips.

Quincy counts to five with his fingers.  They pull away,

embarrassed, and walk back to the driveway.

Monica lifts her bike from the ground and climbs on.

Monica doesn't move.

Quincy's face instantly clouds.

He shoves her, knocking her off her bike.

Monica leaps up, her dress now dirty.  She shoves him back.

They grapple, then fall to the ground swinging...

BLACK.

FOOTAGE.  Men's NCAA Finals.  Michigan State against Indiana

State.  Magic Johnson against Larry Bird.  Magic drives on

Bird, hits a beautiful scoop shot.  He celebrates as he jogs

back down court...

TITLE CARD: "SECOND QUARTER" then "1988"

INT. CRENSHAW HIGH SCHOOL GYM - DAY

A snarling Black cougar glares down from a large mural.  On

the court below, a girl's basketball play-off game.

The bleachers are almost half-full with a hyped crowd.  In

the crowd are Monica's parents.  Her father is excited and

vocal.  Her mom reads a book.  Also in the stands, the HEAD

COACH OF THE TENNESSEE LADY VOLS, PAT SUMMIT.

A fine-ass BROTHER leans in the doorway, sporting a letter

jacket with an embroidered "Q" on the chest.  He gets as much

attention as the game.  A couple of JUNIOR VARSITY

CHEERLEADERS smile his way.

On the floor, MONICA, dribbles down court.  Just EIGHTEEN,

her athletic figure has a few curves, but her loose jersey

does little to show it off.  Her hair is a mess and her knees

are dark with bruises.  A small scar is visible on her cheek.

She whips a no-look, around the back pass to a cutting

TEAMMATE under the basket, who scores.  The crowd cheers.

Monica defends the opposing point guard like a gnat.  She

knocks the ball loose and grabs it up.  She goes for a lay-up

and the opposing guard steps in front of her.  Monica crashes

into her, knocking both to the floor.

A WHISTLE.

Monica leaps up.

The referee ignores her.

From the sideline, COACH HISERMAN waves frantically.

Monica stares down the ref as she jogs back on defense.

The opposing guard drives the lane and puts up a shot.

Monica leaps and blocks it with a taunting scream.  A

WHISTLE.

Coach Hiserman slams down his clipboard.  Monica charges the

referee.  A teammate grabs at her but she pushes her off.

The referee whips back around, whistle in mouth.  Coach

Hiserman grabs her arm and pulls her off the court.

Monica slams down in a chair, sweat pouring, hands clenched.

Her mom watches from the stands, completely embarrassed.  The

brother in the doorway turns, leaves.

Monica looks up at the clock.  SIX MINUTES LEFT IN THE THIRD

QUARTER.

INT. CRENSHAW HIGH SCHOOL GYM - LATE DAY

Monica, still benched, sits slumped in her chair, her sweats

on, her face dry.  She glances up at the clock.  TWENTY

SECONDS LEFT IN THE FOURTH QUARTER.  Her team's up by SIX.

Her teammates dribble out the clock.  The BUZZER SOUNDS and

they dance across the floor.  Monica looks up in the stands.

COACH SUMMIT IS GONE.

INT. WRIGHT HOUSE - KITCHEN - DUSK

Camille, now forty-three, stands at the stove stirring a pot

of gumbo.  Lena, 21, and pretty, stands next to her, holding

a handful of plates and silverware.

Camille nods as they cross into:

INT. DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

At the table, Monica is in mid-conversation with her dad.

Camille and Lena start setting the table.

Lena chokes on her drink, cracks up.

Nathan quickly jumps in, tries to clean things up.

Nathan nods.  She can always soften her dad, but not her mom.

As her mom nags on, Monica looks out the window.

OUTSIDE, QUINCY and a GIRL lean against a car parked at the

curb, slobbing each other down.

Just shy of 18, with a magnetic face and muscular body, he is

a brother who drank his chocolate milk.  HE IS ALSO THE

BROTHER WHO WAS WATCHING MONICA'S GAME FROM THE GYM DOORWAY.

Monica watches and her mom's droning voice disappears...

EXT. MCCALL HOUSE - SAME TIME

FELICIA, 17, can't get enough of Quincy's lips.

She keeps kissing him.

She finally lets go, and slides into her car.  Quincy watches

her go with a cocky-ass smile.

A frenzied crowd from floor to ceiling watches Quincy explode

across the court.  He is the complete point guard - hitting

from the outside, driving to the hoop, no-look passes,

playing tight D.'

His father, Zeke, now 39, stands on the sideline.  His muscle

has softened a little over the last five years of retirement.

Monica sits alone in the bottom row, holding a basketball.

She wears jeans and a T-shirt and her hair is pulled back in

a simple pony-tail.

Quincy does a killer cross-over move and his Defender falls

down.  He lays up the ball, then taunts the player he just

poster-ized.  Behind Monica, TWO GIRLS smack each other

excitedly.  One of them, SHAWNEE, 17, pretty, big chest,

slides down into the empty seat next to her.

Monica knows she's full of shit, doesn't respond.

Shawnee holds out a folded note.  Monica doesn't take it.

She slides back to her seat.  Monica shakes her head, turns

back to the game.

Quincy dives for a loose ball.  Shawnee clutches her friend.

Monica takes in his tight body.  He does look good.  Quincy

jogs back down court and flashbulbs go off...

INT. CRENSHAW HIGH SCHOOL GYM - NIGHT

Flashbulbs.  Quincy stands with his dad, his sweat still

fresh, talking to a reporter named JIM.

Jim crosses away.  Zeke puts an affectionate arm around his

son as they walk toward the locker room.

Zeke sighs, then:

Quincy smiles wide.

Quincy watches his dad move toward the doors, stopping once

to give an autograph.  Zeke passes Monica, entering.

He exits.  Monica approaches Quincy.

Silence as Quincy wheels his Jeep Wrangler toward home.

Monica sits in the passenger seat, basketball in lap.  She

pulls Shawnee's note from her pocket.  Quincy glances it

over.

Monica shoots him a disgusted look.  Quincy reaches out.

Monica leans away, reads aloud.

Monica laughs in disbelief.

Quincy looks down at the SPALDING BASKETBALL in her lap and

cracks up.  Monica glares.

Monica points to the scar on her cheek.

Quincy turns, faces her.

Quincy pulls his Jeep into his driveway.

Monica slams out of the Jeep and walks across the lawn to her

house.  Quincy exits his ride.

Quincy steps inside, drops his bag on the floor.  His mom,

Nona, approaches from the dining room.

Nona holds up a large hoop earring.

Quincy crosses into:

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Nona follows.  Quincy pulls open the fridge, grabs a couple

of slices of cold pizza.

Nona eyes her son, then lets up.  She gives him a kiss.

Nona smiles, starts back the kitchen.

Quincy exits to his room.

INT. MCCALL HOUSE - ZEKE AND NONA'S ROOM - LATE NIGHT

Nona angrily rolls her hair as Zeke undresses.

Zeke looks at her, offended.

A beat.

Livid, Nona pulls off her gold bracelet, throws it at him.

She grabs a pair of gold earrings from her jewelry box, nails

him.

INT. MCCALL HOUSE - QUINCY'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Quincy lies in bed, staring at the ceiling, as his parents

continue to have it out.

He rolls out of bed, pulls on a pair of shorts and a T-shirt.

He moves to his window, pulls it open and climbs out...

EXT. MCCALL AND WRIGHT HOUSES - CONTINUOUS

Quincy crosses the grass to Monica's window, knocks quietly.

Long beat, then Monica sleepily stumbles to her window,

wearing boxers and a tank top.  She pushes it open and Quincy

pulls himself through...

INT. WRIGHT HOUSE - MONICA'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Now a routine, Monica tosses Quincy one of her pillows and

blankets, then crawls back into bed.

He lays out on the floor and closes his eyes.  Monica casts a

long, sleepy glance at him, then drifts back to sleep.

Posters of Magic line three walls.  A hand-made collage of

female college and Olympic ball-players fills the fourth.

The only real "soft" touch is the teddy bear laying on the

pillow.

Monica sits on the floor between Lena's legs, as Lena puts

Monica's hair in cornrows.

Lena yanks Monica's head back.

Monica doesn't answer.  Lena yanks her head back again.

They crack up.

Monica is not convinced.

Lena starts to braid Monica's hair again.  Beat, then...

Monica just shrugs.  Lena continues braiding.

Quincy and Zeke sweat through a playfully intense game of one-

on-one.

Quincy almost breaks Zeke's ankles with a cross-over dribble,

and leaves him in the dust.  He stops under the basket, waves

for his Dad to come on before laying it up.

Zeke smiles, tells Quincy to bring that shit on again.

Quincy tries his cross-over again and this time Zeke picks

him clean.

Zeke taunts him as he easily backs in on him to the basket.

INT. WRIGHT HOUSE - KITCHEN - DUSK

Camille stands at the stove, cooking up some yams.  Monica

enters with a gym bag over her shoulder, dribbling her ball.

THE HOOD OF HER SWEATSHIRT COVERS HER HAIR.

Monica stops.

Camille fills a spoon from the pot, holds it out.

Monica sighs, takes a bite.  It's good.

She pulls off Monica's hood, then stops when she sees her

braids.  Monica looks back defiantly.

She forces a smile, turns back to her cooking.  Monica just

nods, and crosses out.

INT. CRENSHAW HIGH SCHOOL GYM - NIGHT

The championship game.  The bleachers are almost filled.

Nathan and Lena sit, dead center.  ALSO IN ATTENDANCE, COACH

CHERYL MILLER - THE COACH OF USC.

Quincy sits in the back row with a couple of teammates.  As

always, he's the focus of much attention.

Monica and her teammates are crouched in a tight huddle,

surrounding Coach Hiserman.

As Monica moves to center court, she glances up at the USC

Coach, then at Quincy.

Monica takes a deep breath as she lines up for the opening

tip.  An opposing player suddenly bumps her out of position.

Monica glares at her, but just moves over.

The ball is tossed up...

INT. CRENSHAW GYM - NIGHT

Fourth quarter.  One minute left.  Cougars down three.

Monica dribbles down court, bouncing with confidence as her

opponent plays her tight.

Monica zips a no-look pass to a teammate, who lays it up.

Quincy punches one of his friends - "Oh shit!"  She is having

the game of her life.

On the defensive end, Monica steals the ball.  She drives the

length of the court, lays it up between two defenders.  The

crowd is hyped.

Twenty seconds left, up by one.  Monica hounds the opposing

guard as she brings up the ball.

Monica suddenly reaches in and knocks the ball loose.  As she

goes for the ball, a WHISTLE.

Boos fill the gym.  Monica's eyes widen.

Anger rushes through her as she starts for the ref.

Monica catches herself, turns the word "shit" into a

frustrated yell as she quickly moves away from the ref.

Monica lines up for the free-throw, clenching her fists.  The

girl hits the first one.  Then, she hits the second.

With ten seconds left, down by one, Monica drives down court

and throws up a prayer.  EVERYONE IS ON THEIR FEET AS THE

BALL SPINS AROUND THE RIM.  AND THEN...IT POPS OUT.  An

opposing player grabs the rebound and Monica has no choice

but to foul her.

Monica has just fouled out.  She walks to her bench and drops

down.  She buries her face in a towel and sobs.

The buzzer goes off.  Cougars lose.

Quincy stares at Monica, feeling almost as bad as she does.

Monica sits slumped on her bed in a bathrobe, as Lena stands

in front of her, putting the finishing touches on Monica's

make-up.

She steps back, looks at her work.

Beat, then Camille enters.

Camille stares at her daughter, taken aback by how great she

looks.

Lena exits.  Monica still looks miserable.

Monica shrugs.

Monica takes this in as Lena returns with Camille's pearls.

Camille puts them around Monica's neck.  Monica looks back at

her.

Camille smiles at her daughter, nods.  Monica touches the

pearls.

INT. CRENSHAW GYM - NIGHT

An R&B song jams through the speakers, filling the dance

floor with high school kids in suits and dresses.

In the middle of the floor, Quincy gets his groove on with

his date, Shawnee.  She dances so provocatively, there is no

mistaking what she has in mind for later.

Over at the doors, Monica enters with her college date,

JASON, 21, and fine.  Heads turn in surprise.  Monica feels

the stares, shifts nervously.

Monica starts to pull it off.

Jason pulls off her coat, revealing a dress that shows off

everything Monica has been hiding.  He checks out her frame,

smiles.

He crosses to the coat check, leaving her alone.

ANGLE ON

Quincy, who glances over from the middle of the dance floor,

and abruptly stops.  He stares at Monica in shock.

Quincy starts off the floor as a new song kicks in.

ANGLE ON

Monica, sees Quincy approaching in his suit.  She quickly

steadies herself on her heels, brushes a curl from her face.

Jason returns.  Quincy looks at him, surprised.

Shawnee suddenly steps up, slides her arms around Quincy.

Monica looks at Shawnee, wrapped around Quincy.  She can't

believe it.

Monica heads into the crowd with her college man.  Quincy

watches her go.

INT. CRENSHAW HIGH SCHOOL GYM - LATER

Monica sits at a table with Jason.  His arm lays casually

across the back of her chair.  Monica sits upright, stiff.

Monica smiles nervously, nods.

Monica just holds that nervous smile.

He waits for more, but nothing comes.

Monica ducks her head, embarrassed.  Jason laughs.

His arm slides off the back of her chair and onto her

shoulders.

He stands, then.

Monica's face lights up.  Jason smiles.

He crosses away to the refreshment table.  Monica smiles

wider, leans back in her chair with her legs splayed.  She

catches herself and quickly crosses them.

A couple of guys pass by and check her out.  Monica smiles

wider.  Quincy steps up, holding two cups of punch.

The DJ puts on "Make It Last Forever" by Keith Sweat.

Couples move to the dance floor.

Jason stands behind her chair.  Monica smiles shyly.

Jason puts down her cup of punch, takes her hand, leads her

to the dance floor.

Quincy just shakes his head, then crosses to his table, grabs

Shawnee's hand.

He pulls Shawnee to the middle of the floor.

ANGLE ON

Monica, nervous at first, a little awkward, but Jason gently

guides her in a slow circle and she starts to relax.

Jason moves his hands down Monica's back, pulling her in

closer.  Shawnee snuggles into Quincy's chest, runs her hands

down his neck.  The heat from bodies grows.

Monica and Quincy glance up at the same time and catch each

other's eyes.  They start to look away but find they can't.

Eyes locked as they dance, they move together, almost feel

each other.  Finally, as their bodies turn, they lose sight.

Monica puts her head to Jason's chest, Quincy slides his

hands lower down Shawnee's back.  The music continues...

INT. JASON'S CAR - NIGHT

Jason and Monica are parked up on Mulholland Drive.  LL Cool

J's "I Need Love" plays on the tape deck.

Jason has his arm around Monica, ready to make his move.

Jason leans in, kisses her bare shoulder.

Jason kisses her neck.

Jason goes in for the slam dunk.  Kisses Monica on the lips.

It's the first time she's really been kissed.  Jason pulls

away, smiles.

Jason leans in.  Monica closes her eyes, and they kiss some

more.  Monica tries to follow his practiced lips.

Jason's tongue slides in and their bodies slide down.  His

hand moves across her breast.  Monica's eyes pop open.

Naive and inexperienced, Monica shuts her eyes tight.

Jason's car pulls off, Monica slowly moves to her front door.

She looks in the living room window.  Her mom is asleep in a

chair, trying to wait up.

Monica catches her reflection in the window.  She glares at

her made-up face, then wipes at her mouth with her hand.

She steps back , walks to her bedroom window.  She pulls it

open, kicks off her heels and climbs through.

INT. WRIGHT HOUSE - MONICA'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Monica moves to her bed and drops down.  She sits motionless

for a beat, then suddenly feels something beneath her.  She

reaches for it.  IT'S A LETTER FROM THE USC ATHLETIC

DEPARTMENT.  Monica stares at it in her hands...

Light suddenly cuts through the darkness.  Monica turns and

is surprised to see Quincy standing in the middle of his

room, pulling off his jacket.  Monica moves to her window,

pulls it open.

Quincy looks over.  Beat.  Then he climbs out of his window,

drops down.

EXT. WRIGHT AND MCCALL HOUSES - CONTINUOUS

Monica doesn't respond.

Monica shrugs.

Monica takes this in.

Beat, then Quincy cracks up.  Monica laughs with him.

Monica stares at him, surprised.  She thinks.

Monica disappears back inside.  Beat, then she re-appears.

She climbs out her window, drops down.  Quincy looks at her.

She holds out the envelope from USC.

Monica nods.  Quincy takes the envelope, sits down on the

grass.  Monica sits down beside him.  He tears open the

envelope and pulls out the letter.

Monica stares at him as he reads, trying to see an answer in

his face.  Quincy finally looks up.  Expressionless.

Monica's face falls.  And then, a slow smile spreads across

Quincy's face.

Monica grabs the letter, reads.  Her head just drops as a

tidal wave of relief washes over her.

Quincy smiles.

Monica looks up, cheesing.

Monica can't contain her excitement.  Without thinking, she

gives Quincy a kiss.  They pull away, then break into nervous

laughter.

But they both want more.  They lean in, kiss deeply.  They

fall back on the grass.  And kiss.  And kiss.

Suddenly, Monica pulls away, sits up.  Quincy follows,

instantly apologetic.  Monica stares at him, then to his

surprise, she reaches over, gives his shirt a small tug with

her finger.

Quincy stares at her, then slowly pulls off his tie.  He

nervously unbuttons his shirt.  He fumbles with the last two

buttons.

Monica slowly pulls down the straps of her dress, self-

conscious.  Quincy can't keep his eyes off her.

He pulls off his pants.  Monica glances down and her eyes

widen.  She looks scared to death.  Quincy smiles softly,

leans in and gently kisses her.  She relaxes.  They lay down.

Quincy reaches into his pants for a condom.  His hands shake

as he puts it on.  They stare at each other as he moves on

top of her.

Quincy pushes inside her.  She flinches back in pain.  Quincy

immediately stops as tears spring to her eyes.

Monica shakes her head.  Quincy pushes inside again.  He

looks down at her with tenderness, moves gently, kisses her

tears...

FADE IN:

FOOTAGE.  1988-89 NBA Finals.  Game SEVEN.  The Lakers

against the Pistons.  With seconds left, up by three, Magic

guards Isiah Thomas.  They collide, no foul is called and the

Lakers win their second championship.

TITLE CARD: "THIRD QUARTER"

INT. USC - CAMPUS GYM - MORNING

Championship banners hang from the ceiling.

TWELVE YOUNG WOMEN sit on the first two rows of bleachers.

The eight upperclassmen kick back in the second row,

comfortable, confident.  Monica and the three other freshmen

sit in front of them, jiggling nervously.

COACH MILLER stands in front of the team.

Laughter from the upperclassmen.

Coach Miller pauses a moment to let her words sink in.

Monica glances at her fellow freshman for their reactions.

Like her, a lot of cockiness, a lot of fear.

SIDRA, senior point guard, nods from the second row.

The upperclassmen crack up.

CREE, junior forward, ducks her head sheepishly.  Coach

Miller smiles.

Monica nods, accepting the challenge.

EXT. TRACK - EARLY MORNING

It's cold, it's dark.  It's six a.m.

The team pounds down the track, pushing through a two-mile

run.  Monica and her freshman teammate/roommate SHAYLA, 18,

breathe heavily from the back of the pack.

From the sideline.

Monica sucks it up, runs faster.  She reaches the middle of

the pack, then runs out of gas.  She drops back to the rear.

INT. CAMPUS GYM - MORNING

Defensive drills.  One by one, players crouch low and move

backwards down the sideline.  ZVETTE, a junior guard, hustles

through the drill.

Monica starts the drill.

Monica grimaces as she squats lower.

Coach Miller stops her, squats down low beside her.

Monica starts again.

INT. CAMPUS GYM - MORNING

The team stands along the baseline.  Monica stands right

below the free throw line.

TONI, 6'4", 200 pound senior, drives the lane.  Monica steps

in front of her, and is slammed to the floor.  She lays still

for a moment, stunned by the impact.  Laughter from the

baseline.

Teammates SANDRA and LISA crack up.

Monica crawls to her feet.

Monica moves back into position.  Toni drives at her again.

Monica steps in front of her, braces herself.  Toni slams

into her and she hits the floor.  Monica blinks back the pain

as she pops back up.

Monica wobbles back to the sideline.

INT. WEIGHT ROOM - LATE DAY

The team is spread out, lifting weights.  Monica lies on a

weight bench, her arms shaking as she struggles to bench

press fifty-pounds.  Sidra stands behind her, spotting.

Monica lifts it with Sidra's help.

Monica scowls, discouraged.

Sidra walks off, leaving Monica with the bar on her chest.

Finally, she has to drop the weight to the floor.

EXT. USC CAMPUS - LATE MORNING

Monica and Quincy walk to class, his arm draped casually

across her shoulders.  Quincy gets looks and smiles.  Monica

just looks exhausted.

Quincy laughs.  TWO GIRLS pass by, smile.

The girls continue on.  Monica looks at Quincy.

Quincy looks at her sulking.  He suddenly pulls her down onto

the nearby lawn, and cradles her.

Quincy grips her tighter, rocks her.  Students pass by,

laugh.

Monica finally cracks up.

He gives her a kiss.

Monica smiles, kisses him back.

A heated scrimmage between the women's "A" team (the starting

five) and "B" team (five who want to be starting).  Monica

runs point for the "B" team, playing opposite Sidra.

Sidra is all over Monica, slipping in cheap shots, but Monica

starts to come on.  She does a quick cross-over and loses

Sidra.  She dishes off to Shayla, who scores.

Sidra scowls as she runs down court.  She gets a pass in the

corner, tires to make a move but Monica slaps the ball loose.

Monica grabs it, drives to the three-point line, puts up the

shot.  SWISH!  Monica stays posed, with her arm up.

Sidra takes advantage, sprints back down court.  She get the

long pass, lays it up.  Coach Miller blows her whistle.

Monica jogs over, sheepish.

Monica drops her head.

Beat, then Monica holds up her arm like she just shot the

ball.  Snickers from her teammates.

DORA, freshman, jogs onto the court.  Coach Miller blows her

whistle and the scrimmage resumes.

Monica stands alone on the sideline, posing, and feeling like

an asshole.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - LATE MORNING

Monica sits on the bench in front of her locker, dressing

after the shower.  Shayla sits next to her.

Nearby, Lisa and Sandra apply make-up in the mirror.  Zvette

passes by, already dressed.  Lisa turns.

Cree glances over from another sink, as she snaps the chain

on her CROSS NECKLACE.

MAEYEN walks past.

They crack up.  Cree just shakes her head.  Two TEAMMATES

pass by Monica with their arms raised, mimicking her pose.

Monica shakes her head.

Sidra glances at Monica from her spot on the bench.

Ears prick up around the locker room.  Sidra stands.

Monica rises.

Toni tries to step in.

KELLI, senior forward, shakes her head.

Monica is stunned.  Sidra saunters to the showers.  Shayla

nudges her with her shoulder.

Monica and Quincy lay feet to face on Quincy's twin bed.

Monica's hand holds an ice bag on Quincy's hip.  Quincy's arm

rests across an ice bag on Monica's ankle.

Quincy's roommate/teammate REGGIE, 18, suddenly pops his head

into the room.

Reggie shrugs, closes the door.  Quincy looks at Monica,

still brooding.

Monica shoves Quincy's ice bag down his sweat pants.  He

leaps up.

He smiles as he pulls the ice.  Then looks her up and down.

Quincy locks the door, sets up his indoor hoop.

Monica looks at him, then cracks up.

Quincy grips the ball.  Monica crouches low on defense.

Quincy drives past her and slams down a vicious dunk.

Monica makes a face, then pulls off her sweatshirt.  Quincy

skips back.  Monica drops low again.  Quincy fakes her out

and slams down another vicious dunk.  He laughs.

Monica glares through her smile, then pulls off her T-shirt,

leaving her in a bra and shorts.

Quincy goes for another dunk, but this time, Monica reaches

out, GRABS HIS DICK.  Quincy drops the ball.  Monica picks it

up and lays it in.

Quincy pulls off his shirt.  Monica moves back into position.

Quincy drops down low.  Monica fakes, gets him to leave his

feet.  She slips under him and scores.  She laughs.

Quincy pulls off his sweats, leaving him in just drawers.

Monica takes in the view as she moves back into position.

She holds the ball out, taunting.  Quincy pretends to reach

for it, but grabs her breast instead.

She drives.  Quincy just steps out of the way and lets her

score.  Monica snatches the ball off the floor.

Monica turns, finds Quincy butt-naked.  He moves her against

the wall and kisses her.  Monica drops the ball, wraps her

arms around him.  She smiles.

Game over.  They hit it.

Sportscaster DICK VITALE talks animatedly about the upcoming

season.

INT. BASKETBALL COURT

Sportscaster ROBIN ROBERTS reports on the upcoming women's

season.

INT. ESPN STUDIOS

INT. BASKETBALL COURT

INT. ESPN STUDIOS

MONTAGE:

INT. SPORTS ARENA - NIGHT

A hundred flashbulbs pop as Quincy jogs out to center court.

The crowd goes crazy as...

INT. CAMPUS GYM - NIGHT

Monica sits on the bench, watching Sidra run the floor

against UNLV, as...

INT. SPORTS ARENA - NIGHT

Quincy drives to the three-point line against Cal and puts it

up.  It drops through the net.  He pounds his fist against

the number twenty-two on his chest, nods to Zeke standing

behind the bench, as...

INT. CAMPUS GYM - NIGHT

Coach Miller motions to Monica.  She jumps up, pulls off her

sweats.  She jogs past Arizona bench and onto the floor,

as...

INT. SPORTS ARENA - NIGHT

Quincy goes up for a dunk against North Carolina.  He jams it

down, grips the rim, and pulls his legs up high, as...

INT. KAISER ARENA - NIGHT

Monica catches a long outlet pass.  She drops a no-look

bounce pass between two Berkeley defenders, to a teammate who

scores.  She jogs back, as...

INT. SPORTS ARENA - NIGHT

Zeke grips Quincy's head proudly, affectionately, as they

walk off the floor after a game against Washington, as...

INT. UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT - GAMPEL PAVILION - NIGHT

Sidra crashes to the floor, immediately grabs at her ankle.

Monica rises off the bench...

Televisions hang from every corner, broadcasting various

games.

Zeke and Quincy sit at a bar.  Quincy is still hyped from his

game.

Zeke just nods as the Bartender/Owner crosses over.  He is an

ex-ballplayer named TERRY.

Terry laughs as he moves off to fix the drinks.  Something is

on Zeke's mind, but before he can speak on it...

Zeke suddenly focuses.

Silence, then.

Zeke stares at his son.

Quincy can't hold his father's look.  Zeke shakes his head,

hurt.

Quincy looks in his father's eyes, knows he's telling the

truth.

Just then, a COLLEGE STUDENT approaches.

The student holds out a piece of paper, without even a glance

to Zeke.

Quincy nods, signs the guy's paper.  Zeke watches his son,

the rising star.

EXT. MCCALL HOUSE - NIGHT

Through the windows, we see Quincy enter the house.  He

glances around, then walks to the living room.  He sees his

mom sitting outside by the pool, drink in hand, looking torn

up.  He pulls open the sliding glass door.  Nona jumps, then

sees Quincy.  She quickly puts her drink down.

Quincy glances at her half-hidden glass.

No response from Nona.

She doesn't respond.  Quincy studies her.

Nona sits silent, humiliated.

Nona grabs an envelope beside her and throws it at him.

Confused, Quincy opens it.  HE PULLS OUT A COUPLE OF PHOTOS:

Zeke outside a party.  IN ONE PHOTO, his arm is around a

young woman.  IN ANOTHER PHOTO, they KISS.  AND YET ANOTHER,

they climb into his car.

Quincy just stares at the photos.

Quincy looks stricken, but he moves to Nona, comforts her as

she cries...

Monica sits with a devastated Quincy, high up in the

bleachers.  In the distance, the clock-tower glows 10:50.

Monica puts her arms around him.  They sit there, quiet.

Monica glances up at the clock tower.  She reacts.  Quincy

notices.

Quincy looks at her, almost in shock.

Monica reluctantly stands.

Quincy nods.  Monica gives him a kiss.  Then she turns and

crosses away.

INT. MONICA/SHAYLA'S DORM - NIGHT

The lights are off but Monica sits up in bed.  SHE WEARS

BOXERS AND ONE OF QUINCY'S PRACTICE SHIRTS.

Shayla lies under her covers across the room.

Shayla's warning slowly sinks in.  Finally, Monica lays down.

EXT. TRACK - NIGHT

The clock tower glows 12:30.  Quincy still sits in the

bleachers.  Alone.  Tears fill his eyes as his world comes

crashing down...

USC vs. Louisiana Tech.  The packed crowd is hyped.  Nathan

sits by himself in the stands, excited.

Monica sits on the bench with four of her teammates.  The

rest of the team is lined up in front of them, including

Sidra in street clothes.

Toni rises, jogs through the line of teammates to the court.

Lisa stands, skips through the line.

Zvette jumps up, bumps into each teammate as she moves down

the line.

Monica takes a deep breath, then jogs through the line.  She

gets to the middle of the floor and looks around with her

game face on.

Sandra jogs out and the rest of the team follows.  Everyone

gathers in a tight circle with their arms around each other.

INT. SPORTS ARENA - LATE DAY

A sellout crowd for the men's SC/Temple game.  And Quincy is

having the worst game of his life.

He drives down court on a fast break.  He ignores his two

open teammates and puts up a three-pointer.  It hits nothing

but air.  The crowd boos.

Humiliated, Quincy tries to steal the ball back and commits a

stupid foul.  His teammates glare at him as they line up for

free throws.

INT. CAMPUS GYM - CONTINUOUS

Monica's game.  Late second half.  SC down two.

Monica drives the lane, drawing two defenders.  She looks

like she's about to force up a shot, then suddenly whips up a

pass to a wide-open Sandra at the three-point line.  Nothing

but net.  SC up one.

Coach Miller claps intensely on the sideline.

Ten seconds left.  Game on the line.  Monica tries to lob a

pass inside to Toni.  The pass is knocked away and grabbed up

by the opposing point guard.

It is a one-on-one between Monica and the guard.  The girl

drives hard for the winning hoop.  Monica races to the key

and slides in front of her.  The guard goes up and slams into

Monica.  Both crash to the floor as the ball drops through

the net and the buzzer goes off.

A WHISTLE.  The two women stare up at the REFEREE from the

floor.  And then --

Monica leaps up as the crowd goes crazy.  Toni grabs up

Monica in a hug as their teammates celebrate around them.

INT. SPORTS ARENA - CONTINUOUS

Quincy drags himself to his bench, slumps down dejectedly, as

the Temple Owls celebrate their win around him.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - DUSK

The female players continue to celebrate as they undress.

They give each other a pound.

Lisa looks at Monica, standing in her shorts and sports bra.

The women break into laughter.  Monica smiles.

More laughter.  Monica looks over at Toni, sitting quietly at

the bench.

Monica turns, sees Coach Miller standing in her office

doorway.  She motions for her.  Monica heads over.  Sidra

watches.

INT. COACH MILLER'S OFFICE - SHORT TIME LATER

Trophies, plaques and photos fill every empty space.

Coach Miller sits behind her desk.  Monica stands before her.

Realization finally hits.

Monica looks at Coach Miller completely thrown.

Monica nods, crosses out.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - CONTINUOUS

As Monica walks back to her teammates, Coach Miller steps

into the doorway.

Sidra looks at Monica as she rises, crosses over.  Monica

avoids her eyes as they pass.  Sidra enters the office and

the door closes.

Beat, then Monica smiles.

Black folks pack the cramped houseparty, bumping to a phat

hip hop joint.

Monica bounces through the throng.  A GIRL grabs her arm.

Another PARTY-GOER grabs her arm.

Monica smiles wider.  She spots Reggie dancing in the crowd,

moves to him.

Monica is suddenly pulled into a dance routine by Sandra and

Lisa.

She laughs, tires to move away, but they won't let her go.

Monica gives in, grooves with them.

ANGLE ON:

Quincy walks through the door with a half-empty forty in his

hand.  Girls immediately try to grab his attention from the

dance floor, or stare him down from the sidelines.

Quincy sees Monica on the dance floor.  He stands, watching

her.  Takes a drink.  Monica finally looks over, sees him.

She smiles, crosses to him.

She glances at the forty in his hand.

Shayla suddenly grabs Monica from behind.

Monica looks at him for a reaction.

He downs the last of his forty.

He heads for the glass doors.  Monica and Shayla follow.

EXT. BALCONY - CONTINUOUS

Reggie approaches the group.  Gives Quincy a nod.

He laughs, then turns back to Quincy.

Quincy just looks at him.

Monica leans against Quincy, affectionately.

Silence.  Reggie and Shayla crack up.  Quincy shakes his

head, moves to the keg line.

She starts for Quincy

Monica looks over, sees Sidra standing in the doorway.  There

is no escaping this confrontation.  She glances at Quincy,

then crosses over.  Quincy turns, sees her disappear back

inside.

INT. HOUSEPARTY - CONTINUOUS

Monica shakes her head.  An awkward silence.

Sidra turns and walks away.

EXT. BALCONY - CONTINUOUS

Quincy takes one long drink from his cup.  KERRY, 20, and

spandexed, stands directly in front of him, flirtatiously.

He steps aside as she tries to work the keg.  Nothing comes

out.  She nods at his cup, smiles.

Shayla glances over as Quincy pumps the keg a couple of

times.  Kerry hands him her cup and he starts filling it up.

Quincy knows he should blow her off, but he's digging the

attention.  He hands her back her cup.

ANGLE ON

Monica looks over at Quincy and sees him talking to the

hoochie.  The girl looks too damn comfortable.  Monica moves

back outside.

She swishes past Monica.  Shayla "accidentally" bumps her.

Kerry glares.

He leans in, kisses her drunkenly.  She pulls away.

Quincy kisses her again.

They fall silent.

He starts to walk away, then stops.

He goes.  Monica stares after him.

Quincy pushes through his front door, then stops short in his

doorway.  Zeke sits on the couch.

Zeke looks at his son, meaning every word.  Quincy stares

back, long and hard.

Quincy just stares back.

Zeke is taken aback by the hatred in his son's eyes.  He

turns and without another word, exits.

EXT. STREET - LATE NIGHT

Quincy stands across the street from the houseparty, staring

up at the balcony.  Monica leans against the railing,

laughing with a couple of teammates.  Quincy watches her,

then turns and walks away...

SLOW MOTION.  Monica's eyes are on fire as she races an

Oregon player for a loose ball.  Both dive for it, slide

across the floor.  Monica grabs it up, screams for a time-out

as her opponent tries to wrestle away the ball...

EXT. QUINCY/REGGIE'S SUITE - DUSK

Monica walks down the hall to Quincy's suite.  The window is

open.  The sounds of Nintendo are heard.  She walks in

without knocking.

INT. QUINCY/REGGIE'S SUITE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Reggie sits on the couch with a TEAMMATE, playing Nintendo's

"Duck Hunt".

They barely give her a nod.  Monica crosses into

INT. QUINCY/REGGIE'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Quincy stands at an ironing board, ironing a T-shirt.

Quincy pulls on the T-shirt.

A knock at the front door.  Quincy exits.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Monica follows, then stops short.  Kerry, the spandexed girl

from the party, stands in the doorway.

Quincy gives her a hug.  Monica stares at him in disbelief.

Reggie and his teammate smack each other, "Oh shit!"

She storms out.

EXT. WRIGHT HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DUSK

BAM!  Monica slams her car door.  Her face is a mask of anger

and confusion.

Camille exits the house, car keys in hand.  She sees her.

Monica glowers.  Camille looks at her.

Camille just nods, doesn't bother asking again.

She pulls open her car door.  Beat, then...

Monica rolls her eyes, as her mom leaves.

EXT. DORMS - NIGHT

Quincy sits on the wall outside of Monica's dorm, as Monica

slowly makes her way up the walk.  She sees him, stops.

Monica punches the shit out of Quincy, then pushes past him.

Quincy grabs her arm, stopping her.

They stand, silent.  Trying to come down from their anger.

Monica flinches in shock.

Monica's heart is sinking fast.

Monica is crushed.  Beat as, Quincy struggles to stay cold.

She fights back tears.  Quincy has to look away.  Monica

can't respond.

Beat, then Quincy turns and walks away.  Monica tries to

fight her tears but her pain, hurt and confusion are too

much.  Finally, she gives in, and the tears fall.

FOOTAGE.  Press conference.  Magic sits beside his wife

Cookie.  He shocks the world as he announces his retirement

from basketball.

TITLE CARD: "FOURTH QUARTER" then "1993"

ESTABLISHING SHOTS OF SPAIN

Madrid, Pampolona, the running of the bulls, old-world

architecture.

Finally, we rest on a large billboard, a photo of Monica in a

basketball uniform, drinking a Spanish soft-drink.

EXT. STREETS OF SPAIN - LATE DAY

Monica jogs down the congested cobble-stone street, a sports

bag over her shoulder.  She is TWENTY-THREE.  Half-assed

braids frame her matured features.

She passes store fronts, street vendors, and dodges

pedestrians, as she makes her way toward a large, older

arena.

EXT. ARENA - CONTINUOUS

An excited crowd jockeys for position at the front doors.

Above them, a huge banner reads "Campeonato de Europeo".

(European Championships".)

As Monica heads for the back entrance, a cheer goes up from a

large contingent in the crowd.  Monica smiles, waves back.

TWO LITTLE GIRLS break from line, run to her.

They giggle, hold out a piece of paper and a pencil.

As Monica signs her autograph, a tall woman carrying a

matching sports bag approaches.  She is LUISA, Spanish, 33.

Monica hands the girls her autograph and they run off.

They duck into the arena.

INT. ARENA - LOCKER ROOM - LATE DAY

Paint peels off the walls.  Windows are broken overhead.

Monica sits alone at her locker, taping her own ankles.  Her

TEN TEAMMATES, all from Spain, sit on the surrounding

benches, talking and joking among themselves in Spanish.

Monica is clearly an outsider.

COACH PARRA, Spanish, late 40's, enters.

The women immediately stop talking.  COACH PARRA gives an

animated, impassioned speech in Spanish.  Monica doesn't

understand a word, just continues taping her ankles.

Coach Parra finishes and the women clap, pumped up. Monica

turns to Luisa, seated next to her on the bench.

INT. ARENA - NIGHT

The arena is PACKED with a raucous European crowd, chanting

and waving signs - the love their women's basketball.

Monica walks onto the floor, tucking her jersey into her

shorts.  The uniforms are old-style - polyester and tight.

Her club's name is stitched on the front, "GODELLA".

As she hits center court, a smile suddenly breaks through her

game face.  Standing opposite her, playing for the opposing

Italian club is Sidra, HER RIVAL FROM USC.

They move into position.  The ball is tossed up.  Italy winds

the tip and the ball is passed to Sidra.

Monica hounds her as she brings up the ball.  Sidra shoves

her off and to the floor, and scores.  No whistle.  Women's

pro ball is at a whole other level.  Bigger, better, tougher.

The ball is passed in to Monica.  She drives down court, goes

up for a lay up.  An Italian player shoves Monica in mid-air,

taking out her legs.  Monica crashes on the hardwood.

A whistle.  Monica lays still for a moment, then pushes

herself up and walks to the free-throw line without a word.

Without emotion.

INT. SPAIN - NIGHTCLUB - LATE NIGHT

A huge crowd dances fervently to the live Spanish music.  In

the middle of the floor, the Spanish players are the life of

the party.

In a corner, Monica sits with Sidra, drinking and watching

the festivities.  A large trophy sits on the table.

Monica sets it down in the seat next to her, puts an arm

around it.  Sidra shakes her head.

Monica laughs.  She downs her drink, motions to the waiter.

The waiter nods.

Monica laughs as the waiter brings her drink.  She tries to

pay, but he just shakes his head, crosses away.

Sidra laughs.  They watch the madness out on the dance floor.

Monica smiles.

Monica takes this in.  Her eyes do not reflect someone on top

of the world.  She takes a long drink.

INT. SPAIN - MONICA'S APARTMENT - LATE NIGHT

A small, sparse, one-bedroom.  Sam, Diane and the rest of the

gang from "Cheers" fill the small TV screen that flickers in

the darkness.  Their dialogue is dubbed in Spanish.

Monica sits on the floor, braiding her hair.

SHE WEARS BOXERS AND QUINCY'S OLD PRACTICE SHIRT.  AFTER FIVE

YEARS, IT IS WELL-WORN.

Feelings of loneliness threaten to swallow her whole.  She

looks out her window and sees her billboard, looming in the

distance.  She just stares.

The crowd erupts as a Laker player dunks the ball on a fast

break.

ANGLE ON

Laker announcers CHICK HEARN and STU LANTZ.

ANGLE ON

Quincy pulls off his sweats and jogs onto the court with the

rest of the subs.  He is twenty-three, a man.  His goatee and

tired eyes make him look older.  HE NOW WEARS NUMBER TWENTY-

ONE.

Quincy immediately gets a pass in the corner.  He puts up a

quick three and it banks hard off the rim.

ANGLE ON

Chick and Stu.

ANGLE ON

Quincy steals the ball, has nothing but open court ahead of

him.

Quincy takes off from the hash-mark and throws down a monster

jam.  He swings high off the rim.  Too high.  His hand slips

and he crashes to the floor.  His knee twists at a sickening

angle.

The dwindling crowd gasps as Quincy clutches his left knee,

writhing in pain.

INT. DANIEL FREEMAN HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - LATE NIGHT

Zeke walks down the corridor, checking room numbers.  He is

forty-five now.  His slight paunch as become a roll.

He sees Nona exiting a room, with an empty water pitcher in

hand.  Her hair is in locks.

Nona looks over.  Her eyes narrow.

Zeke's shoulders slump.  Then he looks back at her.

Nona walks over to a MAN standing nearby.  He puts an arm

around her and they move down the hall.  Zeke watches for a

beat, then pulls open Quincy's door, steps inside.

INT. QUINCY'S HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Quincy lays in the bed.  His knee is bandaged and propped up

by pillows.  He stares out the window.

Quincy turns, sees his father.  He turns back to the window.

Silence.  Then.

Zeke stares at his son, wishing he could satisfy him with an

answer.

With nothing left to say, Zeke pulls open the door and

leaves.  Quincy stares at the door long after it closes.

A NURSE enters, carrying a bouquet of flowers.  She moves

past the empty bed, puts them on a table already overflowing

with flowers.  She pulls open the blinds and light floods the

room.  She crosses back out.

A toilet flush.  Beat, then Quincy slowly hops out of the

bathroom, scratching his bare ass through the opening of his

gown.

Quincy whips around and is shocked to see Monica standing

there, laughing.  She has clearly made an effort with her

appearance.

He stumbles.  Monica quickly goes to him, catches his arm

before he falls.

Quincy stares at her, completely thrown.  It's been five

years.  An awkward beat.

Quincy rubs his goatee self-consciously.

Quincy tries to adjust his footing and flinches in pain.

An awkward beat.

Monica cracks up.  Quincy laughs with her.

Quincy nods.

They look at each other.  The moment is building.

He stares at her.  Into her.

Quincy and Monica turn, as KYRA KESSLER, black, 26 and

beautiful, rushes into the room.  She wears a flight

attendant's uniform.  She goes to Quincy, gives him a kiss.

Monica reacts.

She takes Quincy's arm, moves him to the bed.  Monica

watches.

Kyra relaxes.  Then she glances over at Monica.

Monica smiles awkwardly.

The shock hits too quick to cover.  But Monica tries.

Monica forces one last smile, pulls open the door and leaves.

INT. HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Monica walks down the hall, shell-shocked.

Camille moves between the counter and the stove, whipping up

a couple pecan pies.  Monica enters.

Monica nods and moves to the barstool.

Camille looks up, studies Monica for a moment.

Monica shrugs.

Monica stares at her mother.  There's no going back.

Monica is busted.  It takes her a moment to come back.

Monica stares at her mother.

WHAP!  Camille's humiliation is immediate and she cuts off

Monica with a SLAP.  Camille curses herself for losing it.

Monica is stunned, hurt.

Camille stares at her daughter, devastated.

Monica can't answer.

Monica stares at her mother.

Camille looks at her daughter and is struck by the need in

her eyes.  Monica moves off the barstool and leaves.

The room looks exactly the same.  Trophies, medals, plaques.

Basketball posters and her "strong women" wall.

Monica sits on her bed, staring up at a photo of her and

Quincy, tacked up to her bulletin board, amid other photos of

her childhood.  THEY ARE EIGHTEEN, PLAYFULLY WRESTLING OVER A

BASKETBALL.

Monica slowly rises, starts taking her posters down.

INT. REHAB CENTER - DAY

Quincy sits on a leg extension machine, with his left leg

tucked under the padded bar.  A TRAINER stands behind him.

Sweat and pain coat Quincy's face and scarred knee as he

slowly lifts the light weight again, and again, and again.

INT. BANK - DAY

A long line of customers shift impatiently during the noon-

time rush.

Monica sits with a BANK MANAGER at the "New Accounts" desk,

learning the ropes.  Her hair is done, she wears a simple

dress.  Behind her, hanging on the wall, are three framed

photos of the bank presidents.  ONE OF THEM IS HER FATHER,

NATHAN.

INT. WRIGHT HOUSE - MONICA'S ROOM - NIGHT

Monica stands in her room, staring out at Quincy's window.

She watches as Quincy and Kyra pack up some of Quincy's

stuff.  Quincy tries to take his basketball globe light. She

laughs, "Hell no."

INT. WRIGHT HOUSE - MONICA'S ROOM - DAY

Camille enters, moves to Monica's garbage can, dumps the

contents into her larger bag.  Suddenly, she stops.  She

reaches into the garbage and pulls out a crumpled picture.

Camille smooths it.  It is the photo of Monica and Quincy at

eighteen, wrestling over a basketball.

CAMILLE STARES AT IT, TAKEN IN BY THE PURE JOY IN HER

DAUGHTER'S FACE.  She sits down on Monica's bed, still

staring.

INT. FORUM - DAY

In the empty gym, Quincy jogs up and down the court.  He is

still tentative on his knee, but he keeps jogging.

And then, slowly, the determination melts from his face.  His

jog turns into a walk, and then he just...stops.

INT. MCCALL HOUSE - QUINCY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Quincy stands in the middle of his room, taking in his life.

Old, worn basketball posters still line the walls.  Trophies

and awards.  USC memorabilia.  His basketball globe light.

He walks to his window, looks out at Monica's window.  Her

room is dark.

INT. QUINCY'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - MORNING

Quincy tilts his face up to the shower head and rinses the

soap from his face.  He hears the bathroom door open.  He

shuts off the water and opens the curtain.

Kyra sits on the toilet, taking a pee.  Quincy slams the

curtain closed.

She flushes.  Quincy steps out, grabs a towel.  A long scar

runs across his knee cap.

Kyra laughs as she buttons up her flight attendant's uniform.

They cross into:

INT. QUINCY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Kyra packs up a suitcase.

Quincy nods.

She smiles, gives him a kiss, moves back to her packing.  Off

Quincy:

INT. BANK - DAY

Monica sits at her desk in a blouse and skirt, punching

numbers into the computer.  A man sits down in the chair

opposite her.  Monica glances up.  It's her father.

Monica forces a smile.

Nathan looks at her, nods.

He pulls a GARBAGE CAN HOOP from a plastic shopping bag.

Monica smiles.  He attaches it to her garbage can.

He shoots an ugly, imaginary shot.  She laughs.

He gives her a smile, and exits.  Monica looks at the hoop,

then crumples a piece of paper.

Monica shoots.  The paper drops through the net.

She glances up, notices a few patrons watching her.  Monica

quickly composes herself and goes back to her work.

EXT. WRIGHT AND MCCALL HOUSES - DUSK

Monica exits her car, after a long day at work.  She wears

very low heels.  But she still stumbles.  She curses, then

hears a laugh.

She looks up - Quincy sits on the grassy hill above her

house.

Monica smiles.

Quincy nods.  Awkward beat.

Monica looks at him.

Monica stares at him, seeing a man in the boy she grew up

with.  Quincy looks away, self-conscious.

Monica is too hurt, too scared to tell him the truth.

Monica turns, crosses to her house.  She stumbles on her

heels, kicks them off in frustration, and exits inside.

Quincy walks back to his curb.

ANGLE ON

Camille watches from the kitchen window

EXT. WRIGHT HOUSE - PATIO - DUSK

Lena sits next to Camille.  Her one year old son, L.P., sits

on the ground at her feet.  Monica sits quietly nearby,

watching.

She quickly looks over at Monica.

Monica gives her a small smile.  Camille looks down at L.P.

Lena sighs, rolls her eyes.  She picks up her son.

She exits inside.  Camille makes a face.

Monica smiles.  And then silence.  There is still so much

distance between them, so many misunderstanding.  Camille

stares at her daughter.  And then...

Monica stares at her mom.  Camille stands and leaves.

Monica lies in her bed, staring up at the ceiling, unable to

sleep.  Her mind races with thoughts of her past, her

choices, her future...

Suddenly, she climbs out of bed.  She wears a tank-top and

pajama bottoms.  She crosses to her window, pulls it open and

climbs out.

EXT. WRIGHT AND MCCALL HOUSES - CONTINUOUS

Monica drops down.  She moves to Quincy's window and knocks

quietly.  Beat, then Quincy appears.  Bare-chested and in a

pair of shorts.  He looks at her, then pulls open the window.

Quincy just looks at her.

Quincy disappears for a moment, then returns, pulling on a T-

shirt.  He climbs out of his window, drops to the ground.

Quincy looks at her.

Quincy stares at her.

Quincy doesn't even crack a smile.  In fact, he glares.

Quincy starts back toward the window.

Quincy looks at her in disbelief, then laughs at the

absurdity.

Monica moves past him, reaches through his window.  She drops

back down, holding his basketball.

She throws him the ball.

Quincy stares at her.

Monica stands opposite Quincy.  Both are suited up in

basketball gear.

They stare at each other, ready to go to war. Monica tosses

him the ball.

Quincy tosses the ball back.  Monica drives.  Quincy's knee

is maybe at sixty percent and he can't keep up.  She scores

easily.

She walks to the top of the driveway, tosses him the ball.

Quincy rubs his scarred knee, then passes it back.

The game continues.  Monica owns the first five points easily

by exploiting Quincy's injury.

Monica drives for another lay-up.  Quincy suddenly lets go of

his fear, leaps and swats her shot.

He grabs the rebound and lays it up.  He nods intensely, as

he grabs the ball and walks back to the top of the key.

The game continues and now Quincy has the upper-hand, using

his size and strength.  He scores seven straight points.

The score stays close.  It is a sexually-charged battle of

wills -- Quincy pulls off his sweat-soaked shirt.  Their

bodies collide as they wrestle for the ball.  Monica yanks

off her jersey in frustration.  Her ass bumps into his hips

as she backs him in.  Her hands slide across his chest as she

guards him...

Finally, the score hits nine, nine.  Monica slowly walks to

the top of the key.

She tosses Quincy the ball.

Quincy tosses the ball back, drops low on defense.  Monica

fakes an outside shot and Quincy bites.  Monica drives around

him.  SHE HAS A WIDE-OPEN LAY-UP.  SHE PUTS IT UP..AND IT

ROLLS OFF THE RIM.  Monica can't believe it.

Quincy grabs the loose ball and clears it.  He stares at

Monica as he dribbles in front of her.  She stares back.

He breaks for the basket.  Monica stays with him.  He goes

up.  Monica jumps, desperately tries to block his shot.

Quincy dunks on her, knocking her to the ground.  He lets go

of the rim, and tumbles to the ground also.  GAME OVER.

Silence.  Quincy stares at her.  Monica looks back.  Then:

Monica struggles to fight back her tears as she picks herself up.

She slowly walks back toward her house.  And then:

Monica slowly stops, turns.

Monica stares at him, wonders if she heard right.  Quincy

limps to his feet, picks up the ball and holds it out to her.

Monica slowly walks back to him.  They stare at each other.

No more egos, no more bullshit.  Just love.

In the moonlight, on the blacktop, they kiss...

INT. LOS ANGELES FORUM - NIGHT

Music is blasting, banners are waving, crowd is screaming.

Magic Johnson sits in a floor seat, watching the game.  A

REPORTER interviews him.

Behind him, in a second row seat, a ONE YEAR BLACK GIRL sits

in a lap, bouncing, watching feet and legs ballin' on the

court.

Quincy leans down, gives the little girl a kiss, then looks

out at the court.  It's the Los Angeles Sparks and the New

York Liberty.  The WNBA.

On the court, the women line up for a free-throw.

Monica, sporting a uniform with Wright-McCall on the back and

the number thirty-two, looks over.  Quincy takes their

daughter's hand and waves it.

Monica smiles back, then steps to the line.  The referee

tosses her the ball.  Monica stares at the basket, then

bounces the ball twice, licks her lips and shoots.

