<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

THE BIJOU (The Majestic) by Michael Sloane

IN BLACK...

... the insistent, persistent, eight-to-the-bar beat of

BOOGIE-WOOGIE.  Hot, exciting, pulsating rhythm, ramping up.

THEN...

... in the blackness, falling s-l-o-w-l-y, tumbling

g-e-n-t-l-y, a picture-postcard:

Then another... and another, each one dropping through frame,

a gentle rain.

In these old postcards, Hollywood is a dream town where movie

stars glide out of big cars to press their hands-and-

footprints in the wet cement.

Another postcard:

In this postcard myth, you'd toddle down to Hollywood and

Vine, bump into Bogie and Bacall, and join them for dinner at

the Brown Derby.  Or Ciro's.  Or the Coconut Grove...

More postcards.  Pictures of movie theaters, but not the ones

that you and I know today.  These are palaces.  Temples.

Grauman's Chinese and Egyptian.  The Carthay Circle.  The

Paramount, the Million Dollar.  From a time when moviegoing

was a complete experience, not a trip to the local mall.  The

ushers were friendly and helpful and wore gold brocaded

jackets and guided you to your seat.  The popcorn was hot and

fresh and buttered with real butter, not 30-weight motor oil.

THE PILE OF POSTCARDS

a wild jumble.  Then, one LAST POSTCARD drops lazily on top

of the pile.  It's a view of Hollywood at night, a carpet of

lights under the yawning, protective smile of Mt. Lee's most

famous resident, the fully-lit HOLLYWOOD SIGN.  We PUSH INTO

THE PICTURE OF THE SIGN, DISSOLVING UNTIL WE'RE...

... PUSHING INTO THE REAL HOLLYWOOD SIGN, closer and closer,

until we fly right through it -- then crazily loop up and

behind it until we're looking down at...

EXT.  HOLLYWOOD (AERIAL VIEW) - NIGHT

SUPER TITLE: 1951

A gigantic aerial shot.  Postwar autos fill the muggy

midsummer evening air with the sounds of thousands of HONKING

HORNS, a mere precursor to the traffic yet to come.  Darkened

outlying neighborhoods are evidence of the postwar home

construction boom, as scores of stucco bungalows are being

built in the areas surrounding the beating heart of the town,

a swath of garishly bright concrete called

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD.

Still in the same shot, we rocket down into the center of the

intersection of Hollywood and Vine, then head west along the

boulevard, skimming just above the traffic -- past Musso and

Frank's Grill and the Hollywood Canteen, past the Egyptian

Theater and a rumbling Pacific Electric Red Car, across

Highland Avenue, past the Paramount Theater, and across the

street to

GRAUMAN'S CHINESE THEATER.

And like the man said, the film on the marquee is "THE

AFRICAN QUEEN."  Still the same shot, buses disgorge

TOURISTS, who move into the forecourt of the theater.  The

MEN doff their hats and mop their brows.  The WOMEN pull

their blouses away from their chests, fanning themselves with

movie-star maps as they marvel at the signed cement blocks.

We MOVE AMONG THEM, until we pick up A COUPLE, and we stay

behind them as they work their way through the crowd, on

their way to

THE THEATER ENTRANCE,

where an ornately attired DOORMAN smiles and tears their

tickets.

MOVING INTO THE LOBBY

an explosion of glitz mixed with Chinese myth and legend.

Everywhere you look, it's red and orange and plush carpeting

and golden light.  We MOVE THROUGH the lobby, still in the

same shot, still tracking the couple, heading for the

auditorium doors, which are swept open by two ramrod-erect

USHERS and we move into

THE DARKENED THEATER.

As the couple, Pete and Sandra, find seats, we HEAR the

soundtrack of the film before we see the screen, the

unmistakable strains of a march, and then -- still in the

same shot -- we see the screen...

A NEWSREEL.

As the march SWELLS to a crescendo, we HEAR THE NEWSREEL

ANNOUNCER'S SONOROUS VOICE:

Over a newsreel shot of a packed Congressional Committee

Hearing Room, a title blares "HOLLYWOOD REDS GO TO JAIL!"

We see several shots of WITNESSES engaged in heated verbal

battles with congressmen, especially Committee Chairman T.

JOHNSTON DOYLE and the Majority Counsel, ELVIN CLYDE.

Over shots of several of the "Hollywood Ten" being led to

jail in handcuffs, the newsreel narration continues.

In the audience, one man YELLS "Lock up the commie

bastards!," and a few others cheer and laugh.  As the

newsreel moves on to a somewhat more innocuous subject, we

WHEEL AROUND AND...

ENDFRAME ON PETE APPLETON AND SANDRA SINCLAIR.

Pete's a handsome fellow in his 30s, and Sandra's a starlet

pretty girl in her mid-20s.  As she rummages in her purse,

Pete watches the newsreel.

Pete kisses Sandra on the cheek, then stands and sprints up

the aisle to the concession stand, a big unworried grin on

his face.

EXT.  UNITED PICTURES STUDIOS - MAIN GATE - MORNING

Pete pulls up to the guard kiosk in his spiffy yellow

convertible Plymouth.  The Guard, RAY, steps out to meet him.

Pete lights up a cigarette.  We get a better sense of him

now.  Though earnest, he's jocular, and a bit of a fast

talker.

Ray is nonplussed.  Tips his hat.  Regards Pete suspiciously.

Ray heads back to his kiosk, shaking his head.

Pete, covering his worry well, drives onto the lot.

EXT.  UNITED PICTURES STUDIOS - WRITER'S BUILDING - MORNING

Pete pulls up, hops out, grinds out his cigarette, looks

around and goes inside.

INT.  WRITER'S BUILDING HALLWAY - MORNING

Pete comes down the hall a few steps, stops.  Something's

wrong.  It's awfully quiet.  He pokes his head into the door

marked "TYPING POOL."

INT.  TYPING POOL - MORNING

A sea of black Underwoods -- all silent.  The lights in the

room are off, and hard shafts of morning sun stream in

through the windows.  One typists, LOUISE, is going from

machine to machine, pulling covers over them.

She looks up, startled.

She rushes past him.  Pete doesn't quite know what to think.

Pete turns.  The voice belongs to Pete's agent, LEO KUBELSKY,

a rotund man in his fifties.  He wears a perfectly tailored

silk suit.

EXT.  STUDIO STREET - DAY

FROM FAR AWAY, we watch as Leo and Pete come out of the

Writer's Building and join a flood of DRESS EXTRAS, all done

up in Puritan pilgrim garb and heading for the commissary.

As they move through the mob and emerge on the other side,

it's clear that Pete is reeling from something he's just been

told.

PETE AND LEO

Leo takes a gold cigarette care from his breast pocket,

offers a cigarette to Pete and takes one for himself.

Leo lights Pete's cigarette and his own.  Puts a fatherly

hand on his shoulder.

Leo blows out a thin stream of smoke.

INT.  WRITER'S BUILDING/PETE'S OFFICE - DAY

Prominent on the wall is a framed "SAND PIRATES OF THE

SAHARA" poster.  Pete reaches up and takes it down.  He leans

it up against the desk, then sits heavily in the wooden

swivel chair.  He swivels around to see

A STUDIO SECURITY GUARD

standing by the door.  He's watching Pete's every move.

Two boxes sit on the desk, partially packed with Pete's

belongings.  Pete lights a cigarette and opens the lower desk

drawer.  He pulls out a stack of scripts and sets them on the

desk.  He looks at the cover of the first one:

Pete shuffles the scripts and looks at the cover of the

second one:

He jams the scripts into one box and turns to the other box,

which contains somewhat more personal items.  A ragged gold

pillow with tassels.  Legal pads of notes.  An old tin-toy

fire truck, its bright red paint chipped and worn.  He turns

it around in his hands.

Footsteps approach, and Pete swivels toward the door.

Sandra appears in the doorway.  She's in costume -- a Louis

XIV courtier.  She bustles past the Guard, rushes to Pete and

embraces him.

They kiss.  The Guard watches their every move.

During this last, Sandra has been ever-so-slightly pulling

away from Pete.

Sandra glances at the Guard, who is watching everything.

Pete sees where this is going.  She's edging toward the door.

And she's out the door and gone in the blink of an eye.  Pete

looks at the Guard.

The Guard turns away.  Pete moves back toward the boxes.

Rummaging again, he comes up with a bottle of Jack Daniels

with barely one swig left.  He regards the bottle for a

moment, looks to see if the Guard is watching (he isn't),

pops the cork, puts it to his lips and drains it.  He looks

at it thoughtfully as we

A HALF-FULL BOTTLE OF JACK DANIELS setting down on a bartop.

WIDER

INT.  THE FROLIC ROOM - NIGHT

The bottle is in front of Pete, who sits at the bar, quietly

getting stewed.  The Frolic Room is a classic Hollywood dive,

dimly lit and full of character and characters.  It's a quiet

night and getting quieter, as several PATRONS are just

leaving, waving goodbye to the bartender, JERRY, early 40s.

Jerry turns to Pete, eyes him suspiciously from the end of

the bar.  Pete picks up the bottle and pours another shot.

Good boy, he got most of it in the glass.

He knocks it back and Jerry pours him another.

Pete drains his shotglass, puts it back on the bar.  He

watches Jerry, who is not about to refill it.  Pete reaches

for the bottle, but Jerry is faster.

Peter stands, stubs out his smoke, drops a few crumpled bills

on the bar and grabs his hat.

Pete's preoccupied with putting on his hat and getting his

car keys out of his coat pocket, a daunting task in his

condition.

And he's out the door.

EXT.  FROLIC ROOM - NIGHT

Pete takes a few steps, stumbles, stops, takes a deep breath,

then totters briskly towards his car.  He hauls the door open

and sits inside heavily.

INT./ EXT.  PETE'S CAR - NIGHT

Sitting slumped against the steering wheel, Pete looks as

though he could fall asleep right there, which would probably

be a good idea.

He looks at his watch.

He turns the key and hits the starter.  The engine hums to

life.  Pete sits up, opens his eyes wide, shakes off the haze

and puts the car in gear.

The Plymouth lurches forward a few yards, screeches to a halt

and stalls.

He re-starts the car, puts it in gear, and pulls away and

down the deserted boulevard.

EXT.  SANTA MONICA BEACH, AMUSEMENT PIER - NIGHT

The full moon is low over the ocean.  Pete's car is parked at

the edge of the sand, the water fifty yards away.  The ferris

wheel and the roller coaster of the amusement pier are dark

and eerie silhouettes, lit only by moonlight.  Pete is asleep

in the driver's seat, head tilted back, his hat covering his

face, snoring.

The waves CRASH against the pilings and startle Pete awake.

Instantly, he grabs his head.

Pete takes a deep breath... and starts coughing.  He gets out

his cigarettes and lights up.  He takes a puff and glances at

his watch.

He starts the car and heads for the highway.

EXT.  PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Pete drives along the moonlit two-lane blacktop.  Waves crash

to the shore below the roadway.

INT./ EXT.  PETE'S CAR (DRIVING) - NIGHT

Pete is finally relaxed.  He takes off his hat and jams it

down in the back seat.  He takes a deep breath -- with the

wind in his hair, a smile grows on his face and he seems at

peace.  He glances down at the speedometer -- then at the

fuel gauge.

INSERT - FUEL GAUGE

Pinning on "empty."

He scans the road ahead -- nothing.  Glances to his right.

PETE'S POV

The lights of a small town can be seen off in the distance.

Pete veers the car off the highway and makes the turn that

will take him toward the lights.  He passes a hand-painted

sign that gives him hope: "GAS - 1 MI."

EXT.  RORY'S GAS STATION - NIGHT

Pete's car rolls up and stops.  There's a light on the sign

and another in the station's window, but the place is

deserted.

Pete looks ahead toward the town.  Its few lights twinkle in

the distance.

Pete pulls out onto the road.

EXT.  ROAD - NIGHT

Pete's car trundles along, blowing past a hand-painted

roadside sign which reads:

INT./ EXT.  PETE'S CAR (DRIVING) - NIGHT

Pete's headlights catch a glimpse of another sign, reading

"LAWSON WASH," just in front of a small wooden auto bridge.

Barely reducing his speed, Pete heads onto the bridge...

HIS POV - THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

... his headlights pick up the glowing eyes of a hapless

possum...

Pete swerves to avoid the animal, and a wheel drops off the

edge...

EXT.  BRIDGE - NIGHT

... and the Plymouth careens over the side of the bridge and

into the rapidly-moving water below!

EXT.  UNDERWATER - NIGHT

The water is flowing very quickly, and the current is

intense.  Pete pulls himself out of the driver's seat

(thankfully, it's a convertible) and swims over the

windshield.

But... his left sleeve is caught on the door handle.  Nearly

out of breath and panicking, Pete shucks off the jacket and

heads for the surface.

EXT.  THE WASH - NIGHT

Pete breaks the surface and gasps for air.  His fight isn't

over yet, as the current is pulling him rapidly downstream.

He swims with all his might toward the far bank.

EXT.  FAR BANK OF THE WASH - NIGHT

Drained, Pete pulls himself out of the water and staggers to

his feet.

He stumbles along backwards a couple of steps... and his heel

hits a rock...

Pete falls backward -- and his head strikes a glancing blow

on another rock.  He rolls down the bank, unconscious, and

lands face down in the mud.

IN BLACK, we slowly become aware of a panting, breathing

sound -- the sound of a dog...

FADE IN:

ON A DOG'S FACE

A yellow labrador, full frame.  It takes a couple more

sniffs, then starts licking furiously.

EXT.  FAR BANK OF THE WASH - DAWN

Pete is still laying face down on the bank, being fervently

licked in the face by the dog.

ON THE OLD MAN

A no-nonsense sort in his late-60s, he wears overalls and an

old railroad cap.  He comes down to Pete, and using his

walking stick, pokes him in the side.

Pete blinks up at the Old Man, his mouth gaping open.

He sits up, and the Old Man gets a look at his head, which is

caked with mud and blood on one side.

He stands up shakily.  The Old Man gives Pete a hand.

And they head toward the road to town.  BOOMING UP, we SEE

them pass a roadside sign:

ON THE SIGN:

Pete takes the handkerchief and wipes the mud and some of the

blood off his face.

Pete stops, thinks for a moment.

EXT.  COMMERCE STREET - LAWSON, CALIFORNIA - DAY

Pete and Stanton walk along Commerce Street, the main drag

through the center of the small town.  Lawson is a bit run

down, creeping inexorably toward decrepit.  Despite that,

there's a timeless quality to the small buildings, a familiar

All-American feel.

Several of the PEOPLE walking along the street take notice of

Pete and nod to Stanton, who nods back.

They pass the window of the drug store, COLE'S PHARMACY.

Pete looks down and sees

TWO FADED GOLD STARS

in the window with two faded photos, all decked in tattered

black crepe.  Two boys, no more than 18 and 19, who went off

to war and didn't come back.

Stanton notes Pete stopping to look at the stars and photos.

ANGLE - MABEL'S DINER

A typical small-town greasy spoon -- with one faded star

prominent in the window.

CLOSER

On MABEL LANIER, a sweet-faced woman in her 30s.  She stares

vacantly into space, her reverie broken by a customer needing

a coffee refill.

STANTON AND PETE

Pete looks longingly toward the diner.  Stanton takes note.

Pete rummages in his pants pockets, and comes up with three

quarters.

And they head across the street.

A PLATE WITH TWO PIECES OF APPLE PIE

A fork comes into frame and tears into one of the slices.

WIDER

INT.  MABEL'S DINER - DAY

Pete is fairly shoveling the pie into his mouth, pausing only

to wash it down with gulps of coffee.

MABEL

stands nearby, watching in amazement as her pie is consumed

in record time.

Pete notices that Stanton and Mabel -- and the other PATRONS,

for that matter -- are watching his feeding frenzy.  He stops

in his tracks, and starts chewing leisurely.  He smiles at

Mabel.

Mabel obliges.  As she pours the coffee, she looks at Pete.

Pete shakes his head.

Pete looks up at Mabel and smiles winningly.

Mabel, thoroughly charmed, smiles back at Pete.

EXT.  COMMERCE STREET - DAY

A stoop-shouldered little man in his late 60s, HARRY TRUMBO

shambles along the street, headed for Mabel's Diner.  There's

a sadness about Harry, the world-weary melancholy of a man

who has little to smile about because he has little to care

about.  After a couple of steps, he's met up by DOC BEN

LARDNER, a vigorous man in his 50s.  He comes up behind Harry

and claps him on the back.

They're at the door of the diner.  Doc opens it for Harry.

INT.  MABEL'S DINER - DAY

Lardner comes over to Mabel, who hands him a tall paper cup

of coffee and bags him a bear claw.

Lardner and Pete make eye contact, and the doctor notices the

bump on his head.

Lardner, Stanton and Pete rise and move to the door.  Pete

turns back, takes the three quarters out of his pocket, and

puts them on the counter, smiling brightly at Mabel.

ON HARRY

seated at the opposite end of the counter.  He glances up at

Pete.

HARRY'S POV

as Pete smiles at Mabel and turns to go.

ON HARRY

His mouth falls open, his hand moves to cover it.  He's just

seen a ghost...

HARRY'S POV - SLOW MOTION...

... as the three men pass by the diner's window.

CLOSE - HARRY

A FINGER --

moving left-to-right, right-to-left through space.

WIDER

INT.  EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY

Doc Lardner is checking Pete's eyes.  Pete sits on an

examination table, his shirt off, his head freshly bandaged.

Stanton lurks in the corner, Maggie curled at his feet.

Pete does.  Lardner has a look as Stanton pulls out a pocket

watch.

Stanton and Maggie exit.  Lardner checks Pete's ears.

Lardner sniffs him.

Lardner takes a shirt off his counter and hands it to Pete.

Pete puts on the shirt.

Pete stifles a laugh.

INT.  DOC LARDNER'S PRIVATE OFFICE - DAY

Lardner is on the phone, sipping his coffee and nibbling his

bear claw.  Pete is standing, nosing around the office --

diplomas, photographs, knick-knacks.  He zeros in on one

photo in particular.

ON THE PHOTO

one of Lardner and a beautiful YOUNG WOMAN.  They've been

fishing, and the young woman displays a much larger catch

than Lardner.

Lardner hangs up and watches Pete looking at the pictures.

Lardner stares at him.  Pete takes note, turns toward him.

EXT.  DOC LARDNER'S OFFICE - DAY

The Sheriff's sedan pulls up to the office and SHERIFF CECIL

ELDRIDGE, 45, gets out.  As he gets a few steps from the

door, Harry Trumbo jumps out from around the side of the

building and stops him.

Eldridge keeps moving to the door.

Harry jumps in front of Eldridge and grabs him by the

shoulders.

The sheriff stops.

INT.  DOC LARDNER'S PRIVATE OFFICE - DAY

Sheriff Eldridge is seated across from Pete.  He's staring at

him intently.  Silence.

The Sheriff rises and crosses to the door.

Eldridge opens the door.

Harry enters the office, doffs his hat, revealing a full head

of snow-white hair.  He nods to Eldridge and Lardner, and

slowly turns to face Pete.  He looks closer... and closer.

Hesitantly, he takes a couple of steps towards Pete, who

slowly rises out of his chair to meet the old man's gaze.

Finally, they're standing practically toe-to-toe.

PETE

looks a bit puzzled, but the old man has such a sweet face...

HARRY

has tears forming in his eyes.  A smile turns up the corners

of his mouth, and quickly lights up his whole face.

Harry takes Pete in his arms and hugs him tightly, burying

his face in Pete's shoulder and sobbing.

Pete doesn't quite know what to think.  He clearly has no

idea who this old man is.

Pete looks at Harry.  It's not so much that he remembers

anything -- he's swept up in the moment.

Pete wraps his arms around Harry and hugs him tightly,

glancing over at

ELDRIDGE AND LARDNER

who look on goofily, fighting back tears.  They smile at

Pete, who smiles back tentatively.

EXT.  DOC LARDNER'S OFFICE - DAY

Harry, Pete, Eldridge and Lardner come outside.

Eldridge and Harry get in the car.  Lardner comes over to

Pete's back seat window.

He turns to move away, then turns back.

Eldridge starts the car and they drive away.

(NOTE: Henceforth, "PETE" will be known as "LUKE."  It'll be

easier to keep track of things, since everyone's now calling

him Luke, anyway.  Trust me.)

INT.  ELDRIDGE'S CAR (DRIVING) - DAY

Harry sits next to the Sheriff, and Luke has the back seat

all to himself.  He leans forward toward the front seat and

taps Harry on the shoulder.

Luke looks at the town as they drive down Commerce Street.

HIS POV

Shops are open for business, TOWNSPEOPLE are going about

their lives.  A few stop and watch as the Sheriff's car goes

by.

Eldridge looks at Harry, who stares ahead.

Pause.  The silence is too thick, and Harry has to answer.

He turns around in his seat and faces Luke.

Luke sits back against the back seat and lets this sink in.

EXT.  IN FRONT OF THE BIJOU - DAY

Eldridge's car rounds the corner, pulls up and stops.

Luke peers across the street... his mouth gapes open...

HIS POV - THE BIJOU.

The Bijou is a decaying, Dada-esque, grab-bag of building

styles.  It's as though the architect took random parts of a

Chinese temple, a Mosque, a Pagoda, a Sphinx, a symphony hall

and a slaughterhouse, put them in a bag, gave it a good

shake, tossed the contents out onto a blueprint and promptly

built the result.

As a matter of fact, if you didn't know that the place was

"The Bijou," you'd probably wonder what the cryptic message

was trying to convey from atop the crumbling parapet.

And now, the reason for the deteriorated state of the " HE B

J U" sign becomes apparent.  Train tracks run right behind

the building on an elevated trestle.  As we watch, a TRAIN

ROARS BY.  Everything shakes.  It's not an earthquake, it's a

trainquake.  The "J" teeters at a jaunty angle, threatening

to dislodge and tumble down to join its fallen brothers.

LUKE

stares at the monstrosity.  His face is ashen.  His heart has

sunk to somewhere below his knees.

The Bijou.

Harry jumps out of the car excitedly.

Luke opens the back door and slowly steps out.  Harry grabs

his arm and pulls a ring of keys from his pocket.

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - DAY

The interior of the theater fulfills every promise made by

the exterior.  Moth-eaten velvet-flocked wallpaper hangs in

shards and pieces from the walls.  It's sort of a cross

between a gaudy cathouse and a mausoleum, served up with

generous helpings of dust and grime, an almost unbeatable

combination of questionable taste and neglect.

Above the center of the lobby hangs what was -- and is --

probably the only truly beautiful item in the whole

theater --

A DELICATE CRYSTAL CHANDELIER.

Even under a veneer of dust, the fragile droplets of cut

crystal seem to pick up every available point of light and

scatter it in a hundred directions.

TILT DOWN TO REVEAL

Luke and Harry standing below.  Luke is lost in a gulf

somewhere between surprise and disgust.

Luke walks toward the auditorium doors and slowly, cracks one

open.

INT.  AUDITORIUM - DAY

The ocean of two hundred or so seats on the main floor seem

to be, for the most part, intact -- although the occasional

row seems to have loosed itself from its moorings and heaved

itself up against the row behind or in front.

THE SCREEN

is really not much more than a tatty bit of yellowing muslin,

framed by ragged red velveteen drapery.

In the tiny orchestra pit, as we will see later, is an old

upright piano.

Luke walks a few steps down the aisle.  He picks a seat on

the aisle near the middle of the theater and sits.  As he

does, a CAT, an orange tabby, leaps out from under another

seat, jets past Luke and disappears down the aisle and

backstage.  Harry comes over and sits behind him.

INT.  BIJOU APARTMENT - DAY

The small apartment above the projection booth is quite a

contrast to the rest of the theater.  It's neat as a pin, and

fairly lit, as Harry has just pulled back the curtains,

allowing the sun to flood the room.

A beam of golden light falls across a table, atop which are

SEVERAL FRAMED PHOTOS.

One of the photos is of the real, much-younger Luke.  It's a

Norman Rockwell scene, at a train depot, with an army-issue

olive drab duffel bag slung over his shoulder.  He has one

arm around Harry and the other around his mother.

(And by the way, Pete's resemblance to the real Luke -- even

in a nearly 10 year old photo -- is pretty damn startling...)

He smiles.

Luke sets it down and picks up another photo, that of a fine

looking woman.  It's a formal portrait, dating perhaps from

the 30's.

He takes the picture from Luke, kisses it, and gently

replaces it on the table.  Luke goes over to the sofa and

sits.

Harry looks at Luke, who has almost instantly fallen asleep

on the sofa.

He goes to him, gently picks his feet off the floor, lifts

them onto the sofa.  Removes his shoes, sets them on the

floor.

A BLANKET

being drawn up Luke's chest.

HARRY

stands, looks down warmly at his son.  Then, suddenly, he's

seized by a thought.  He turns and crosses to the window.

CLOSE - THE WINDOW

There's a small picture frame in the window.  Harry reaches

down, gingerly picks it up and turns it around.

ON THE FRAME

It's a single, faded gold star.  One war casualty.

Harry clutches it to his chest, looks over at the sleeping

Luke and smiles.

FADE IN:

INT.  BIJOU APARTMENT - MORNING

It's early morning.  Luke is sound asleep, still in his

clothes.  In the distance, a train sounds its HORN.

Luke rolls over on his back, still asleep, snoring lightly.

Slowly, he starts to wake up, eyes still closed.

Something's strange, though.  He frowns.  The train is

GETTING CLOSER.  Luke's eyes POP OPEN.

LUKE'S POV

As the train RUMBLES BY, shaking everything in the room, Luke

looks up to see three ancient cherubs staring down at him.

Harry, an elderly WOMAN, and an elderly BLACK MAN.

Luke is speechless.  It he dreaming this?

Luke sits up on the sofa and tries to get a little more

awake.  He rubs the side of his head that is still bandaged.

The elderly woman nudges Harry gently.

Luke stands and shakes MRS. TERWILLIGER'S hand.  She's tiny,

seventy if she's a day.  She smiles and curtsies slightly.

Her eyes sparkle brightly, her manner almost coquettish.

OLT TIM is -- well, old.  His clothes are a tad shabby, but

well maintained, though they hang loosely on his gangly

frame.  He wears an old blue knit cap, which he quickly

removes as he shakes Luke's hand.  He's a man of few words,

his manner is painfully shy -- and he never smiles.

Pause.

Harry steps forward, takes Luke's arm.

INT.  AUDITORIUM - DAY

Luke, Harry and Mrs. Terwilliger walk down the aisle toward

the screen.  Old Time lags a few steps behind.  At the

orchestra pit, Harry climbs the steps, crosses the pit.  The

screen is a sea of repair patches.  Harry pats it.  Dust

flies.

Luke looks at Old Tim, then at Harry.

Silence from the group.

Beat.  Harry brightens, clambers down the steps and races up

the aisle.

TWO CARBON ARCS

are squeakily being cranked together above the din of a fan

motor.  A puff of smoke, then -- BZZZZZZZZZTT -- LIGHT.  A

metal door is closed over the arcs.

INT.  PROJECTION BOOTH - DAY

Harry dances around to the other side of the projector and

adjusts the focus on the beam of light.  The others look on

as he gazes at the screen through the tiny window.

The carbons sputter and die.  The light flickers out.  Harry

is crestfallen, turns off the motor.

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - DAY

Mrs. Terwilliger is dusting the concession stand with a

ragged feather duster, a hopeless task.  Old Tim is on a

rickety ladder, replacing burned-out bulbs in the chandelier.

The orange tabby cat scratches itself on the leg of the

ladder.

Old Tim climbs down and catches his breath.  Mrs. Terwilliger

sneezes.

They both stop their work and glance warily at the door

marked "OFFICE."

INT.  BIJOU OFFICE - DAY

Luke is poring over the ledger books, adding up figures on an

old manual adding machine.

He scans down a page.

He closes the book and looks expectantly at Harry.

Harry puts his hand on his chest and sighs.

Inspired, Harry stands, takes Luke by the arm.

He drags him out of the office and into the lobby.

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - DAY

Mrs. Terwilliger and Old Tim watch as Harry leads Luke

through the lobby.

Harry leads Luke into the auditorium.  The car follows, but

Mrs. Terwilliger and Old Tim stay behind.

INT.  AUDITORIUM - DAY

Harry trots down the aisle and looks up at the screen.

He turns to Luke.

He points to the screen.

Harry comes over to Luke.

He stands behind Luke and whispers in his ear.

He turns Luke around and looks him in the eye.

Pause.

Still looking at Luke, Harry takes a step back, then slowly

walks up the aisle, disappearing into the lobby.

Luke walks down the aisle.  At the edge of the orchestra pit,

he stands looking up at the screen.  The orange tabby cat

MEOWS, and Luke glances toward it, standing onstage by the

edge of the screen.  They exchange looks as we

INT.  LARDNER LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Doc Lardner is seated in an easy chair, his feet up, reading

Life magazine.  The radio is on, and Patti Page is singing

"The Tennessee Waltz."

There's a noise offscreen, and Lardner looks up.  In the

entrance hall, the front door opens.

ADELE "DELLY" LARDNER

enters.  She's a strikingly beautiful woman in her late 20s.

She takes off a felt cap, and her long, auburn hair cascades

down.

Lardner rises as Adele comes into the living room.  They

embrace warmly.

They laugh.

Lardner gives her an extra squeeze, continues to hold onto

her just a bit too long.  Adele detects something amiss.

Beat.

Adele breaks away from him.

A GLASS OF WATER

on a kitchen table.  Offscreen, we HEAR A HICCUP.  Then

another.  Adele's hand reaches into frame.

WIDER

INT.  LARDNER KITCHEN - EVENING

Lardner stands over Adele, who is seated at the table,

holding the glass of water.

She raises the glass to her lips.

It's a particularly gymnastic way in which to drink water,

but Adele accomplishes it with aplomb.  She waits for a

moment -- then hiccups again.

Lardner sits at the table and takes Adele's hand.

Off Adele's thoughtful hiccuping, we

EXT.  COMMERCE STREET - EVENING

Luke and Harry, walking along, make a turn onto Commerce

Street, heading for Mabel's.  It's still light out, and a

soft breeze skitters some leaves along the sidewalk.

ERNIE COLE, a slight, balding man in his 50s, is locking the

door of his pharmacy across the street, when he spots Harry

and Luke.

Ernie runs across the street and, slightly winded, stands

before Luke, staring.  Luke shoots a glance at Harry, who

taps Ernie on the shoulder.

He sticks his hand out and Luke takes it.  Ernie pumps it

enthusiastically.

The three walk toward the diner, but before they get two

steps, they hear:

They turn to see a stout woman, KATIE RUTHERFORD, 40s,

rushing toward them.  She rushes right into a very surprised

Luke's arms and hugs him tightly.

EXT.  MABEL'S DINER - NIGHT

The diner is packed.  In addition to Ernie and Katie, MEN,

WOMEN and CHILDREN occupy every seat and table, and many more

are standing, even hanging out the door.

At the focus of the crowd are Luke and Harry, seated at the

counter.  Harry is leisurely eating a chicken dinner, while

Luke is working on a steak.  A young man seated at the

opposite side of the counter is speaking.  He's CARL LEFFERT,

30s.

A few people shake their heads, smile and laugh.

A couple of TITTERS are heard.

Luke leans toward Harry, who never looks up from his chicken.

Luke smiles and nods at the young man sitting next to Carl.

BOB LEFFERT

is a good-looking fellow, a few years older than Carl.  His

face is pale and downcast, and he wears a cap pulled down on

his forehead.  He looks up at Luke with hollow eyes.  Brings

his right hand up, pushes the brim of his cap up.  Except

there's no hand there -- it's a hook.

Bob doesn't react.  He glances away, and for a moment, his

eyes meet Mabel's.  She smiles warmly.  He turns away.

Ernie Cole pipes up.

All eyes on Luke.  He freezes, having just taken a forkful of

food in his mouth.  Harry jumps in.

A MURMUR goes through the crowd.  Stanton Lawson, standing

behind Luke, taps him on the shoulder.

Someone shouts "That's the spirit!," another shouts "Hear,

hear!," and a chorus of VOICES join in agreement.

SPENCER WYATT steps around from the back of the crowd near

the door.  He's a tall, dark-haired, gangly, bespectacled

kid, no more than 19 or 20.  Painfully shy, he clutches a

clarinet case to his chest.  He timidly smiles and waves at

Luke, who smiles and nods back.

Vociferous general AGREEMENT from the crowd -- which is

quickly quieted by a MURMUR, which starts at the front door.

The crowd parts and grow silent, revealing a woman standing

in the doorway.

ADELE

She locks eyes with Luke.  Her hand goes to her mouth and her

eyes well up.  Slowly, she moves around the counter, the

crowd moving aside for her.

She stands in front of Luke, who has stood up to meet her.

Her eyes moist, she looks up at him.

Mabel, clutching a napkin, leans over to Katie.

Adele leans up and kisses him softly.  He looks at her.

As Mabel and Katie dab at their eyes, we

EXT.  COMMERCE STREET - NIGHT

Adele and Luke stroll down the street side by side.  She

looks at him for a long moment.

Tentatively, she takes his hand and holds it.  From behind

them, we HEAR A SHUFFLING SOUND.  Adele turns...

ADELE'S POV

Keeping a discreet distance, EVERYONE from the diner is

following them.  Adele turns and addresses the crowd.

Harry comes over.

And the rest of the crowd disperses, variously wishing the

pair goodnight.  Luke and Adele watch them disperse.

They turn and start walking.

Adele brightens.

She grabs his hand and they run toward the town square.

EXT.  LAWSON CITY HALL - NIGHT

Adele and Luke stand by the front steps.

She grabs his hand and they run to the side of the building.

EXT.  SIDE OF CITY HALL - NIGHT

Adele and Luke stand by a basement window, inches off the

ground.  She looks around.  Certain the coast is clear, she

pounds on the window in three "special" places, and it pops

up and open.  She looks at Luke.

AS LUKE CLIMBS IN, WE

A LARGE, MUSLIN-COVERED OBJECT.

Slowly, the muslin is drawn off, revealing A STATUE OF A

KNEELING SOLIDER, praying before a soldier's grave.  We

slowly PAN DOWN from the top of the statue...

INT.  CITY HALL BASEMENT STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

ON ADELE AND LUKE

looking up at the statue in this city hall basement storage

room, lit only by a single shaft of moonlight from the

window.  The muslin covering lay bunched at their feet.

She moves to the memorial.  Squinting, she examines its base.

Luke comes over.

ON THE BASE OF THE MEMORIAL -- LUKE'S NAME

He looks at her for a long moment.  There's an electricity

between them, and they both feel it.

He turns away, rubs his head.

He turns back to her.

Pause.

She instantly covers her mouth, but it's no good.  She has

the hiccups again.

Luke smiles and watches Adele as she makes the decision to

not struggle against the hiccups.  She has them, and that's

just the way it is.

He looks at her.  She's strikingly beautiful at this

particular moment and in this particular light -- hiccups and

all.  He moves closer to her.  She moves closer to him.

They kiss passionately.  She reaches up and puts her arms

around him.  He starts kissing her neck, and she suddenly

realizes -- she's stopped hiccuping.

And as she smiles and kisses him again we

EXT.  THE BIJOU - NIGHT

Luke comes down the street and heads for the front door.  He

has a definite spring in his step as he pulls out his keys

and enters.

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - NIGHT

It's very dark.  Luke is about to swing shut the heavy door,

when he looks down and sees

THE ORANGE TABBY CAT

shoot into the lobby, stopping in the middle of the floor.

It looks at Luke, and PURRS.

Luke closes the door and moves to the cat.  He crouches down

and pets it, and its back rises to meet his hand.

The cat moves to the auditorium door, pausing to look back at

Luke.  Curiosity piqued, Luke follows the cat.

INT.  BIJOU BASEMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT

In the dim light, we SEE an old mop and pail, some dirty film

cans, and a large beat-up cardboard standee of "The Tramp"

with the legend, "Chaplin Short To-Day."

The cat comes around a corner and disappears through a door

at the end of a hallway.  Luke, following the cat, comes

around the same corner and looks at

THE DOOR.

Slightly ajar, there's a light coming from within, as well as

the sound of Old Tim softly humming "It's a Long Way to

Tipperary."

Luke moves to the door and knocks.

The humming stops, and after a moment, the door swings open,

revealing Old Tim, a pipe in his mouth, holding the cat,

stroking its fur.

Old Tim moves into the room and gestures for Luke to follow

him.

INT.  OLD TIM'S ROOM - NIGHT

The room is lit by a small table lamp next to the neat cot,

which is perfectly made, military-style.

Old Tim points to a ragged, overstuffed easy chair next to

the "kitchen" area -- a sink, dishes and utensils, a tiny

icebox.

Luke sits in the chair, and Old Tim sits on the cot, facing

him.  Silence.  Luke glances up at a photo atop the bureau.

ON THE PHOTO

It's a much younger Old Tim, looking quite serious and

handsome in his Great War doughboy's uniform.

The cat jumps down from Old Tim's arms and moves to Luke.  He

rubs against his legs, purring.  Luke leans down to pet him.

Pause, then suddenly.

Luke looks up at the old man, who stammers when he speaks

more than a couple of words.

Old Tim puffs on his pipe, strangely detached.

INT.  PETE'S APARTMENT (L.A.) - DAY

It's a pretty typical bachelor's apartment.  The "SAND

PIRATES" poster leans up against a chair.  Pete's two boxes

of belongings from the studio are on the coffee table, the

empty bottle of Jack Daniels on top.

There's an insistent KNOCK at the door.

We HEAR the key in the lock and the door swings open,

revealing the building SUPER, 50s.  Behind him is Leo

Kubelsky.  They enter the room, and the Super sniffs the air.

Leo moves to the boxes and rummages through them.  He picks

up the empty bottle, examines it.

Leo peels off a hundred-dollar bill.

The Super exits and Leo crosses to the phone and dials "O."

INT.  JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HALLWAY - DAY

ON A DOOR

It reads: "OFFICE OF THE MAJORITY COUNSEL - MR. ELVIN CLYDE"

AGENT WALTER SAUNDERS and AGENT STEVEN BRETT, both 30s and G-

men to the core, hustle into the office.

INT.  ELVIN CLYDE'S OFFICE - DAY

ELVIN CLYDE is 35, a small, thin-lipped, reptilian man in the

Roy Cohn mold.  He's on the phone at the moment.

Clyde's SECRETARY knocks on the door, sticks her head in.

Clyde's eyes brighten.

Saunders and Brett stride into the office.

They stop, shuck off their hats.  Saunders starts over again.

Clyde grins darkly.

Clyde considers this for a beat, then:

INT.  BIJOU OFFICE - DAY

Luke is sitting at the desk, making notes and adding up some

figures.  He puts his pencil down and rubs his eyes, then

looks up at

HARRY AND OLD TIM

who are sitting on the floor, going through piles of lobby

cards and folded one-sheets like little boys fascinated with

their baseball cards.

He shifts his gaze to

MRS. TERWILLIGER

who is straightening out and dusting the tops of the two or

three file cabinets in the corner of the office.  As she

works, she hums an old song, occasionally breaking into the

lyrics:

Luke takes a breath:

Off everyone's worried looks, we

A TV SCREEN

It's tiny, with rounded corners, black-and-white, and a

hopeless chaos of horizontal bars and snow.

WIDER

INT.  LARDNER LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Doc Lardner is fiddling with a brand-new console television

set, trying vainly to tune in a clear picture of "Your Show

of Shows."  He adjusts the dials, fiddles with the rabbit

ears, steps back -- and is successful.  SID CAESAR And

IMOGENE COCA are involved in an elaborate pantomime sketch,

and Lardner fairly roars with laughter.

He turns to go back to his chair, but the second he does so,

the reception goes haywire.  He returns to the spot in front

of the TV, and the picture is perfect again.

The DOORBELL RINGS.  He's torn -- if he moves, the picture

will break up.  The doorbell RINGS again, and we HEAR Adele's

voice from upstairs:

There's a KNOCK at the door.

He moves from his spot.  The reception goes bad, and he

marches to the door.

He opens it, and Luke is standing there, wearing a slightly

out-of-date coat and tie.

Lardner freezes, staring at Luke.

Adele comes down the stairs.  Halfway down, she stops

suddenly and stares at Luke.

Awkward pause.  Adele's staring at Luke, Lardner's staring at

Luke, and Luke's getting nervous.

Adele comes down the stairs.

Another awkward pause as Adele and Luke stare at each other.

Lardner breaks it.

He glances at the TV set.  The picture is suddenly crystal

clear.

Adele takes Luke's arm and they exit, exchanging goodnights

with Lardner, who closes the door and turns toward the living

room.

S-l-o-w-l-y, he sneaks into the room, watching the TV

carefully all the while.  The reception is staying perfect.

Caesar and Coca are involved in an intricate bit of business,

and Lardner wants to laugh, but he's afraid to.  He stifles

his urge, and heads for his chair.  Gingerly, he sits.  Still

perfect.

Satisfied, he finally LAUGHS out loud and puts his feet up.

The picture goes completely haywire again.

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

Adele and Luke walk along, arm-in-arm.

Pause.

Adele stops.

Adele glances curiously at Luke as we

A CLARINET

launching into the opening bars of "Don't Be That Way," an

old Benny Goodman tune.

EXT.  CITY HALL SQUARE - DAY

Spencer Wyatt's big ban is comprised of a dozen or so

MUSICIANS about Spencer's age -- except for the drummer,

AVERY WYATT, 40s, Spencer's dad.  Though no Gene Krupa, he

pounds the skins pretty well, all the while smiling proudly

as his son plays clarinet and leads the band.

Despite the last minute decorations, the Square looks nice,

hung with multicolored paper lanterns and colored lights.

ON LUKE AND ADELE

dancing to the music, along with several other COUPLES.

They dance a bit.

And as they dance away, we

THE SAME - LATER

ON THE REFRESHMENTS TABLE

Luke is pouring two glasses of punch, while Adele is being

shyly admired (and having her ear bent) by two twin brothers,

ALEX and CHARLIE MCKENNA, mid-20s.

The brothers laugh goofily.

THE SAME - LATER

Adele and Luke are slow dancing to "Thanks for the Memory."

They laugh and dance a bit more.

Luke dances Adele away, a slightly nonplussed expression on

her face.  The band finishes the song, and everyone

enthusiastically APPLAUDS.  Spencer bows shyly, blushing

slightly.  He nods to the band, and they bow before he

motions for the crowd's attention.

The crowd yells "No!," "You guys sound great!," etc.

He holds up the clarinet and scans the crowd until he sees

Luke.

The crowd APPLAUDS warmly.

The crowd APPLAUDS as Ernie Cole mounts the band riser.  He

turns and addresses Avery Wyatt, on drums.

Avery smiles broadly and beats the KICK DRUM five or six

times to register his reaction.

ON THE KICK DRUM -- "WYATT'S HARDWARE, LAWSON, CALIF."

APPLAUSE again, and Ernie waits for it to settle.  As soon as

he starts speaking, the crowd becomes totally silent.

Ernie's voice cracks slightly with emotion.  He clears his

throat and continues.

The crowd APPLAUDS.  Adele takes Luke's hand and smiles.

Ernie wipes his eyes and changes the subject.

And Spencer kicks the band into the next tune as we

THE SAME - LATER

Luke and Adele come over to Harry and Mrs. Terwilliger,

standing at the periphery.  Old Tim stands a few feet back.

Mrs. Terwilliger blushes.

Harry touches Luke's arm.

Goodnights are exchanged, and the trio leaves.  Alex McKenna

comes up to Adele and taps her on the shoulder.

Alex leads her to the dance floor as Adele shoots Luke a

little "help me!" look.  Luke smiles back and watches the

dancing crowd.  After a moment, a man in a white suit and bow

tie, ROSCOE FITTS, 40s, comes over to Luke and extends his

hand.

Fitts takes Luke's hand and shakes it.

As Luke watches Fitts walk off, we

THE SAME - LATER

ON SPENCER

The crowd MOANS slightly, and Spencer kicks the band into

"Moonlight Serenade," slow and easy.

ON ADELE AND LUKE

As they hold each other close and dance.  Adele rests her

head on Luke's shoulder, her eyes closed.  Luke strokes her

hair and sways her gently to the music.

Luke looks toward the edge of the dance floor.

LUKE'S POV

Bob Leffert is standing there, staring at the band.  Mabel

comes up behind him and taps him on the shoulder.  She's

asking him if he would like to dance.  Bob looks down at the

ground, self-consciously shoves his hook-hand in his pocket

and moves away, leaving Mabel standing there.

As Luke watches and the MUSIC CONTINUES OVER, WE

MONTAGE:

Luke and Adele dancing...

... walking slowly arm-in-arm down Adele's street, up her

walk to her door...

... kissing passionately on her doorstep...

... Adele going inside and Luke walking away, each unable to

take their eyes off the other...

... Luke walking the quiet streets of Lawson, smiling

beatifically...

EXT.  THE BIJOU - NIGHT

Luke turns the corner and heads for the theater door.  He

pulls out his keys and enters.

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - NIGHT

Luke's about to close the door, when he looks down and sees

CAT

MEOWING at him from the sidewalk.  He holds the door open,

and Cat shoots into the lobby, disappearing into the

auditorium.  Luke closes the door... and stops.  He HEARS

something, and so do we.  Soft and faraway, it's a PIANO.

The melody is soft, lilting -- almost a lullaby.

Luke turns toward the music, which is coming from the

auditorium.  The piano continues, building slightly in

volume.  He moves to the auditorium doors and tentatively

pushes one open.

INT.  AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

Luke enters, his face bathed in the soft, flickering,

reflected light of

THE SCREEN.

The movie is "The Big Parade."  The old, decomposing nitrate

print is badly scratched and stained.  A young, beautiful

Renee Adoree is bidding a tearful farewell to her lover, John

Gilbert, as he marches off to fight the Great War.

Luke stares at the screen.  The look on his face is one of

bewilderment -- and awe.

ANGLE - THE PIANO

The rickety old upright is tinny-sounding and slightly out-

of-tune.  But it really doesn't matter.

CLOSER

Mrs. Terwilliger is playing passionately.  She never takes

her eyes -- which are full of tears -- off the tattered

screen, except to close them when she is overcome with

emotion.  Even so, she never misses a beat.

HER HANDS

fairly dance upon the keys.  Stiff and wrinkled as they are,

they manage to elicit every possible fragment of sensitivity

that the old piano can muster.

Luke is moved by what he's witnessing.  This is the magic...

WIDER ANGLE - THE CENTER SECTION

To the right of Luke, sitting in the center of a row, is Old

Tim.  Stroking Cat, Old Tim stares at the poignant scene

unfolding on the screen, pausing only to wipe his eyes and

nose with a handkerchief.  He doesn't notice

LUKE

who looks up towards the projection booth.

A BRIGHT, WHITE, FLICKERING LIGHT,

filling the frame.  We're looking directly into the beam of

light radiating from the projector.

PUSHING INTO THE LIGHT, we get closer to the windows of the

booth.  We come out of the beam and can just barely make out

the figure of Harry, framed in a small window next to the

projector.

WE CONTINUE PUSHING IN -- closer and closer -- until Harry's

face fills the screen.  He is watching the film; his eyes are

wide and moist, as though he's experiencing the magic that's

unfolding on the screen for the very first time.

The warning bell on the projector CHIMES THREE TIMES,

signaling the end of the reel.  Harry moves away from the

window.

INT.  PROJECTION BOOTH - NIGHT

Never taking his eyes off the screen, Harry watches as the

film comes to an end and flap!  falp!  falps!  out of the

projector.  He kills the motor and cranks the carbon arcs

apart, and the bright beam dies.  It's not the end of the

movie, but it is the end of the only fragment they have.

Harry moves to the house lights rheostat, and slowly fades

them up.  This done, he pulls a handkerchief from his back

pocket and blows his nose loudly.

He crosses back to the projector, unlatches the full take-up

reel and takes it down.  He's about to move away, when he

senses that he's not alone.  He looks over the projector to

see

LUKE,

standing there.  Their eyes meet.  Someone should say

something -- both men search for words.  Suddenly, Luke feels

very out-of-place, almost embarrassed -- as though he's

interrupted a very private ritual.

Harry senses this.  Clutching the precious reel of film

tightly to his chest, he searches Luke's face and smiles

warmly.

Father and son look at each other for a long moment --

searching each other's eyes.  Harry smiles a sort-of half-

smile at Luke, and, still clutching the reel, crosses to the

rewind bench.  Methodically, he mounts it and threads the end

of the film onto an empty reel.  Slowly, he begins to turn

the crank, rewinding the film.

He stops and looks to where Luke was standing... but he's not

there.

ANGLE - PROJECTION BOOTH DOOR

Luke is leaning up against the wall just outside of the

projection booth.

ONE LUKE

As he closes his eyes...

FADE IN:

ON HARRY

In bed, sound asleep, snoring.  A HAND reaches into frame and

shakes him awake.

Harry opens his eyes and looks up.

INT.  HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY

INT.  CITY COUNCIL MEETING ROOM - DAY

A meeting of the Lawson City Council is in session, Mayor

Cole presiding.  Of the dozen council MEMBERS, we also

recognize Avery Wyatt and Roscoe Fitts.  VERA DWIGHT, the

council secretary, a cherubic woman in her 40s, is reading

the minutes of the last meeting.

As Vera speaks, the meeting room door opens and Luke, Harry,

Old Time and Mrs. Terwilliger slip inside and take seats on

the unoccupied benches.

Ernie notices Luke and the trio.

Luke stands.

DALEY THORNHILL, 30s, the council parliamentarian, pipes up.

He's waving a copy of "Roberts Rules of Order."

Ernie rolls his eyes, then quickly and mechanically, without

inflection:

Pause.  Ernie turns to Luke and smiles.

Fitts leans forward.

He looks at Harry and smiles.

The council members MURMUR amongst themselves, then:

INT.  CITY HALL BASEMENT STORAGE ROOM - DAY

As the entire city council and the Bijou trio looks on, Luke

moves to the memorial and pulls down the huge piece of muslin

covering it.  Harry steps forward and gathers some of it in

his arms.

Ernie and Daley step forward and look up at the monument.

Ernie touches the names of his two sones inscribed on the

base of the monument.

Luke overhears this last, and as he smiles, he turns to

Harry, who brightens as he pulls a large section of the

muslin taut between his outstretched arms...

MONTAGE - WITH SOME HARD-DRIVING BOOGIE-WOOGIE UNDER...

ANGLE - THE SCREEN

Harry's on a ladder, snipping the cords holding up the old

screen, which is dropping, bit-by-bit, into the arms of Luke

and Adele, who are surrounded by a group of LITTLE KIDS,

watching the goings-on in wide-eyed awe.

Harry snips the last line, and the rest of the old screen

drops down on Luke's head.  Suddenly... LUKE'S A GHOST!!  He

raises his arms and plays the bogeyman for the kids, who

scream in mock terror and scatter, as Harry and Adele laugh.

INT.  AUDITORIUM - DAY

Old Tim and Harry carry a dilapidated row of seats up the

aisle, as Adele and Mabel move in, tearing up the rotten

carpeting and sweeping up the dust and debris.

The men are having a tough time carrying the seats, and just

as they're about to drop the row, someone rushes in next to

Harry and grabs his end.  It's Carl Leffert.  A second later,

someone else grabs Old Tim's end.

BOB LEFFERT

has a good purchase on the seats with his good hand and his

hook.  He nods to Old Tim, who steps away, mopping his brow.

Luke smiles as he sees this from the front of the auditorium.

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - DAY

Harry, Stanton and Mrs. Terwilliger, with the help of Avery

Wyatt and his son Spencer, tear down the rotting draperies

and scrape off the wallpaper covering the lobby walls.  Then,

as Harry, Spencer and Stanton sand down the walls, Avery and

Mrs. Terwilliger hand them freshly-mixed cans of red wall

paint and brushes.  Immediately, they all set to work

painting.

EXT.  THE BIJOU SIGN - DAY

Luke is on the roof of the theater, pliers in hand and tool

box nearby.  He's just straightened out the "J" and he steps

back... carefully... to admire his handiwork.  For the first

time in a long time, the sign actually reads, "THE BIJOU."

But not for long.  Luke tenses... the building starts

shaking... and the train passes by behind the theater.  Luke

lunges out of the way as three letters shake lose and fall.

Once again, the sign reads, " HE B J U."  Luke winces.

EXT.  CITY HALL SQUARE - DAY

Ernie Cole and Avery Wyatt stand solemnly at the front of a

small group gazing at the base of the war memorial, as it

takes shape in a prominent place in the square...

INT.  AUDITORIUM - DAY

Harry is on a ladder, attaching the final spring stretcher to

a corner of the muslin.  It snaps into place, and voila --

new screen!  Luke, Adele, Doc Lardner, and Sheriff Eldridge,

standing below, applaud enthusiastically.

INT.  ORCHESTRA PIT - DAY

As work progresses all around her, Mrs. Terwilliger has just

finished dusting off the piano.  She opens the keyboard cover

and trails her hand delicately over the keys.  She sits,

closes her eyes, and begins to play -- Chopin's Op. 10 Etude

No. 3 -- delicate, flowing music.  Even though the piano is a

bit out of tune, it's still beautiful.

As she plays, all the work slowly comes to a halt.  Before

long, all eyes are on her.  Everyone's listening.

Transported.

After a moment, she stops.  Overcome.  Everyone applauds.

Surprised, Mrs. Terwilliger stands, and, blushing, bows.

She sits at the piano.

Reluctantly, Luke sits down to her left.  As she begins to

play a Chopin waltz, she encourages him to keep the 3/4 time.

But it's clear Luke has no idea what he's doing.  He's just

plunking bass notes.  But after a moment, the bass figures

he's improvising start to change -- and before long, it's

transformed into the eight-to-the-bar figure of a boogie

woogie beat.  Mrs. Terwilliger stops playing, annoyed.

She stands and moves away.  Luke keeps playing, grinning

madly -- he's loving it!  After a moment, Spencer Wyatt runs

over and takes Mrs. Terwilliger's place, improvising the top

half to Luke's bass line.

OLD TIM

is tapping his foot to the beat.  He turns to Adele and says:

Off Adele cracking up.

THE MONTAGE CONTINUES...

EXT.  THE BIJOU SIGN - DAY

Luke and all the letters up again.  He steps back, checks his

watch, and like clockwork, the rumbling begins and a train

goes by.  This time, however, only the "J" tips over at a

jaunty angle.  Luke smiles.

INT.  MABEL'S DINER - DAY

Luke, Adele and Harry, wearing coveralls, sit at the counter,

devouring hefty plates of turkey with dressing and mashed

potatoes and gravy.  Luke's and Adele's hair is practically

white from plaster dust and Harry's face and hands are

stained with paint specks.

At the other side of the counter, Mabel is chatting amiably

with Bob Leffert.  She smiles at him warmly, then turns to

refill Harry's coffee cup.  Harry thanks her, then turns back

to the newspaper he's reading.

INSERT - THE FRONT PAGE OF THE LAWSON JOURNAL-AMERICAN

Prominent is the black-and-white photo of a little boy and a

policeman holding up Pete's jacket, with the accompanying

headline:

EXT.  THE BIJOU SIGN - NIGHT

Luke's standing near the sign.  He yells to Adele, down below

on the ground.  She, in turn, yells to Harry, standing near a

switch panel behind the candy counter.  He throws the

switch...

... and the sign lights up beautifully!  Then, they all feel

the rumble -- the train rolls past, and, although they rattle

and shake, no letters fall.  A CHEER goes up from Adele,

Harry, and the small crowd of ONLOOKERS below.  Delighted,

Luke takes a formal bow.  The boogie-woogie ends as we

EXT.  CITY HALL SQUARE - DAY

ON THE MEMORIAL

Complete and polished, standing proudly in the center of the

square.

WIDER

It's a clear, balmy day, and the whole town is turned out.

Mayor Ernie Cole is at the podium.  He finishes his remarks,

then picks up the two faded gold stars representing the lost

lives of his sons.  He holds them up, high above his head.

ON THE CROWD

One-by-one, the gold stars of the town's boys are solemnly

held aloft by their loved ones.

Luke and Harry stand at the side of the square, looking out

at the sea of four or five dozen gold stars being held aloft.

Luke catches a glimpse of a man in an army uniform...

LUKE'S POV

It's Bob Leffert, standing with Mabel, looking very sharp in

his dress greens.  He brings his hook-hand up and salutes

smartly.  Mabel takes his good hand, squeezes it as she

blinks back tears.

Luke smiles at this scene as Harry wipes his eyes and puts

his arm around Luke's shoulder, pulls him close and kisses

him on the forehead.

THE SAME - LATER

The Lawson High School Marching Band is set up on the steps

of City Hall, playing the "Star Spangled Banner."  They are

being conducted by their director, MR. PHILLIPS.  Luke and

Harry, hands over their hearts, watch and sing along.  Then,

Luke takes a closer look at the DRUM MAJOR...

ON THE DRUM MAJOR,

a tall young man wearing an ornate brocaded red and white

uniform with "LHS" emblazoned across the chest.

ON LUKE

He has an idea.  The anthem ends, and Luke excuses himself

and moves forward, buttonholing Mr. Phillips as he comes down

the steps...

EXT.  BIJOU - DAY

Luke and Adele are on ladders, hanging letters on the

marquee, which reads:

Harry comes outside and gets their attention.  Grandly, he

gestures toward the door, and out strides

OLD TIM,

wearing his new uniform -- it's the Lawson High School drum

major's uniform, modified here and there.  "B-I-J-O-U" is

proudly emblazoned across his chest in gold brocaded letters.

Luke and Adele applaud.  Old Time looks up at them -- AND

SMILES!

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - NIGHT

Old Tim stands at attention, clutching the front door handle.

Mrs. Terwilliger, wearing a new dress, her hair newly and

perfectly coiffed, stands at the ready at her candy counter,

ready to sell tickets and refreshments.

Harry and Luke nervously pace the lobby.  Luke checks his

watch.  It's time.  He shakes Harry's hand, and nods to Old

Tim, who swings the door open...

ON THE DOOR

Immediately, PATRONS come flooding into the theater.  Luke

exchanges surprised glances with Harry -- then walks outside.

OUTSIDE THE THEATER

Luke comes out and looks down the block.

HIS POV

The line of PATRONS stretches two deep down the block and

around the corner.

Luke smiles.  Success.

THE BIJOU'S MARQUEE -- "FRED ASTAIRE - ROYAL WEDDING"

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - DAY

Luke's selling tickets from behind the candy counter while

Mrs. Terwilliger sells refreshments to a line of CUSTOMERS.

Luke sells a ticket to a WOMAN, who moves away, revealing

BOB LEFFERT AND MABEL.

Luke smiles at Bob, who smiles back, his eyes now fairly

dancing with life.  He plunks down his admission, and Luke

hands him two tickets, which he takes with his hook-hand.

Mabel smiles at Luke, takes Bob's good hand, and they move

away, revealing A FARMER AND HIS WIFE, 50s.

The Farmer steps up and holds out a plucked chicken by its

neck.

Luke, surprised, jumps back -- then smiles, pulls off two

tickets, and exchanges them for the chicken.

THE BIJOU'S MARQUEE -- "THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL"

INT.  BEHIND THE SCREEN - NIGHT

The only light back here is the light of the movie, spilling

through the screen.  Luke is straightening up the backstage

storage area, when Adele taps him on the shoulder.  He turns,

and she throws her arms around his neck and kisses him.  She

hands him a paper to read.

ON THE PAPER

Luke angles it so he can read it by the light of the screen.

It says:

Luke, thrilled, grabs Adele and picks her up, twirling her

around with joy.  He sets her down and kisses her

passionately.

THE BIJOU'S MARQUEE -- "SAND PIRATES OF THE SAHARA"

INT.  PROJECTION BOOTH - NIGHT

Harry is frantically threading the changeover projector.  The

bell on the running projector DINGS! once, signalling that

the reel is coming to an end.  Harry looks out the window at

the screen, then back to the task at hand.

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - NIGHT

Luke comes out of the office carrying a folded movie poster.

With a satisfied smile, he walks through the lobby, admiring

how handsome the old place looks.  Old Tim, snappily attired

in his uniform, is sweeping a tiny pile of debris into a

dustpan.  Mrs. Terwilliger is straightening up the candy

counter.  All is well.

Luke goes to the lobby's poster case.  He opens it, and

unfolds a brand-new one-sheet poster for "SAND PIRATES" --

the same design as the one-sheet we saw in Pete's apartment.

Methodically, he thumbtacks the poster up and closes the

case.

As Luke passes the auditorium doors, a MAN comes out of the

theater and crosses to the candy counter.  The door stays

open for a moment, and Luke decides to duck inside and catch

a bit of the picture.

INT.  AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

ON THE SCREEN - "SAND PIRATES OF THE SAHARA"

The second-to-last reel of a black-and-white early-50's

programmer.  It's nighttime in the desert.  A huge full moon

hangs over a B-movie soundstage version of the pyramids.

GREGORY, a dark, handsome leading man in a pith helmet is

engaged in a fierce swordfight with KHALID, the villain.

Pete takes a seat on the aisle near the door.

Khalid lunges and draws Gregory's blood.

Luke's look is "How did I know he was gonna say that?"

Onscreen, an EVIL HENCHMAN is sneaking up behind Gregory.

Pete did it again.

Onscreen, Gregory turns and kills the Henchman, then quickly

dispatches Khalid.  He stands over the body, catches his

breath and says:

REBECCA, a beautiful American woman, comes into view and

takes our attention because she's being played by Sandra

Sinclair, Pete Appleton's ex-girlfriend...

ON LUKE

His mouth is gaping open.  He stares at the screen.

Luke stands.  Confused, he stumbles backward, moving into the

lobby as the Man goes back into the auditorium with his

popcorn and the door closes.

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - NIGHT

Luke is staring at the closed auditorium doors.  Old Tim and

Mrs. Terwilliger take note of his odd behavior.

Without answering, Luke turns and runs to the poster case.

ON THE POSTER - "SAND PIRATES OF THE SAHARA"

Forget the cheesy B-movie artwork.  As Luke looks at the

poster, it's clear that he's remembering something.  He looks

at the picture of Sandra -- then scans down to the credits

block at the bottom of the poster.  His eyes lock upon

Suddenly, all of Pete Appleton's worries have come crashing

down on him...

... because he remembers...

INT.  PROJECTION BOOTH - NIGHT

The warning bell DINGS! twice, but the changeover projector's

carbon arcs keep sputtering and the motor keeps dying.

Harry's trying to keep the projector going, as the previous

reel is about to end.  Given no other choice, he finally

gives the changeover projector a good swift kick.

It hums to life.  A perfect changeover.  Harry pets the

projector.

As he turns away, he feels a sudden, sharp pain in his left

arm.  Wincing, he grabs his arm, staggers back towards a

chair, and sits heavily.

He tries to clear his throat, but it dissolves into a

hacking, choking COUGH.  He tries to stand, but drops to his

knees, clutching his left arm harder than before.

Harry falls to the floor, and as he does

THE FILM

breaks in the projector gate... flap!  flap!  flap!...

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - NIGHT

Luke is still staring at the poster, lost in thought.

Offscreen, we HEAR the audience WHISTLING AND HOOTING in

reaction to the broken film.

Mrs. Terwilliger has been calling Luke's name, but he doesn't

come out of his stupor until Old Tim comes up behind him and

spins him around...

Luke stares wide-eyed at the old man.

Finally, Luke pulls himself together, hears the audience

noise, and moves toward the auditorium doors.

INT.  AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

Amid the shouting and tossing of popcorn and debris, Luke

tries to regain his composure as he strides down the aisle

toward the stage.

The crowd quiets down a bit.  Luke shields his eyes from the

light and calls up to the projection booth.

No reaction.  Just the flickering beam of light.

Luke, gripped by a sudden fear, rushes up the aisle and into

the lobby.  The crowd goes silent...

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - NIGHT

Old Tim and Mrs. Terwilliger watch as Luke tears into the

lobby and makes for the balcony stairs...

INT.  BALCONY - NIGHT

... and charges between the seats and up the stairs to the

projection booth.

INT.  PROJECTION BOOTH - NIGHT

Luke bursts in the sees Harry on the floor.  He rushes over

and kneels down next to him.

A MAN pops his head into the projection booth door.

INT.  HARRY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Harry is in bed, eyes closed.  Doc Lardner has a stethoscope

to his chest.  He leans up and pats Harry's hand.

He stands and comes over to Luke and Adele, who are near the

door.  Just outside, angling for a view into the room, are

Old Tim and Mrs. Terwilliger.

Harry's eyelids flutter.

Luke rushes to Harry's side and takes his hand.

Luke smiles.

Harry smiles.  Luke kisses his hand and leans up, whispering

in Harry's ear:

Harry smiles faintly, looks at Luke.  He nods, then closes

his eyes.

Slowly, Harry exhales.  His face relaxes, completely at

peace.  He doesn't breathe again.

Luke looks at Harry's face for a moment.  Then as the tears

well up, he leans over and ever-so-gently places a kiss on

Harry's forehead.

EXT.  LAWSON CEMETERY - DAY

It's a beautiful, bright, sunny day.  Luke and Adele stand at

the front of the large group of mourners.  REVEREND COLEMAN,

50s, conducts the service.

Everyone bows their heads.

Luke looks up at the sky, then steps forward and lays a

single rose on Harry's casket.  Then, as everyone

surreptitiously watches, he turns and walks away from the

gravesite, toward the cemetery entrance.

Adele watches Luke depart...

ANOTHER ANGLE

... and she's not alone.  Agents Saunders and Brett are

watching everything from their car, which is parked nearby.

As Luke walks away, Saunders snaps his photo with a long-lens

camera...

THE BASE OF THE WAR MEMORIAL,

and Luke's name inscribed there.

EXT.  CITY HALL SQUARE - DUSK

Luke stands in front of the memorial, head bowed.  After a

moment, he sits, leaning against the memorial.

ON LUKE

Lost in thought, he buries his face in his hands.

Luke looks up, squinting.  Adele stands above him, backlit by

the golden light of the sundown.

She sits next to him.  Tentatively, she touches his shoulder.

He leans into her, and she enfolds her arm in his.

Pause.

Suddenly, Adele feels as though she's walking on eggshells.

She closes her eyes.  All her suspicions are suddenly

confirmed.

Her tears start, and she moves to hug Luke -- but instead,

she starts hitting him, flailing, beating on his chest.  He

hugs her tightly, and she completely lets go.

She pulls away, stands, and looks him in the eye.  Luke

rises.

Luke moves toward her.  She backs away.

She's still sobbing.  He moves to her, takes her in his arms.

She runs off, crying...

INT.  MABEL'S DINER - DAY

ON SHERIFF ELDRIDGE,

making short work of a steak and eggs.  As he powers down his

meal, Agents Saunders and Brett, distinctly out-of-place in

their dark suits and hats, enter the diner.  They take note

of Eldridge, and come over.

They flash identification, which Eldridge notes.

They sit across from Eldridge.  As Saunders speaks, Agent

Brett pulls a photo from his coat pocket.

Agent Brett slides the photo toward Eldridge.

ON THE PHOTO

It's Peter Appleton -- Luke.

INT.  SHERIFF'S OFFICE - DAY

(Oh, and by the way, from here on, he's PETE again.)

Pete sits across from Eldridge, Saunders and Brett.  The

silence in the room is thick.

Eldridge glances at Agent Saunders, who stares at Pete

impassively.

Agent Saunders glances at Eldridge.

Pause.

EXT.  SHERIFF'S STATION - DAY

Pete comes out into the bright midday sun.  It takes a moment

for his eyes to adjust, and when they do, he becomes aware of

perhaps TWENTY PEOPLE lining the sidewalk in front of the

station.

PETE'S POV

We recognize several of the people.  Carl Leffert.  Bob

Leffert and Mabel Lanier.  Daley Thornhill.  Katie

Rutherford.  Stanton Lawson.  Now, there's nothing in the

least bit threatening about the gathering -- and that's

what's so disturbing about it.  They're not an angry mob,

they're just standing there, running the gamut of emotions.

Shock.  Disillusionment.  Betrayal.

It's an awkward moment.  Pete doesn't quite know how to

react.  He wants to go over and talk to them, but he wouldn't

know what to say.  He wishes one of them would talk to him,

just say something, anything.  But no one does.

Then, Bob Leffert turns away from Pete.  He shoves his hook

hand into his pocket and sullenly moves away, followed by

Mabel, then his brother, then the others...

... leaving Pete alone.

INT.  BIJOU LOBBY - NIGHT

Old Tim, in his doorman's uniform, stands by the open, empty

door.

Mrs. Terwilliger, behind the candy counter, wipes up an

imaginary spill, a full wheel of unsold tickets by her elbow.

Pete anxiously paces the lobby.  He looks into

THE AUDITORIUM.

Every seat is empty.

He glances at his watch, then turns to Old Tim and Mrs.

Terwilliger:

As Mrs. Terwilliger and Old Tim silently shamble off, Pete

goes over and flips OFF several light switches.  Most of the

theater goes dark.

EXT.  THE BIJOU SIGN - NIGHT

Pete sits leaning up against the base of the dark sign.  A

gentle breeze tousles his hair as he gazes up at the stars.

After a moment, he HEARS footsteps coming up the ladder to

the roof.

Adele climbs onto the roof, comes over and sits down next to

Pete.

Pause.

He turns to her.

Pause.

Pete can't believe he just said that -- but he did.

Beat.

Pete smiles and puts his arms around her.

They kiss, and we

EXT.  RORY'S GAS STATION - MORNING

There's a thick bank of coastal fog just down the road,

obscuring any view of the ocean a mile away.  It's deadly

quiet as gas station owner RORY, late 60s, pulls up and parks

his Model A truck.  He gets out, and an big old German

Shepherd, LOTTIE, jumps out of the truck bed.

Rory moves to the door, and is about to put his key in the

lock, when Lottie starts whining, looking toward the fog bank

and sniffing the air expectantly.

He stops -- he hears something, too -- a LOW RUMBLE.  Lottie

starts BARKING.  The RUMBLE is getting LOUDER.  Rory's

getting worried.  He looks at

THE FOG BANK.

It's starting to GLOW from within.  Lottie's barking gets

LOUDER and angrier.  Suddenly, a large black car punches out

of the fog bank and tears down the road.  It's followed by

another, and another -- and perhaps a dozen more cars and

trucks, all heading hell-bent-for-leather toward the town.

Rory moves toward Lottie, trying to quiet her as the cars fly

past the station.

EXT.  COMMERCE STREET - DAY

The place is bedlam, overflowing with REPORTERS, NEWSREEL

CAMERA CREWS, PHOTOGRAPHERS, you name it.

A RADIO CREW is broadcasting in front of Mabel's Diner.  The

REPORTER is on-the-air, hugging his microphone, speaking

above the din.  Mabel stands next to him, his hand on her

shoulder.  Bob Leffert stands nearby, grim.

Mabel glances at Bob, who lowers his head.

INT.  BIJOU OFFICE - DAY

Pete is at the desk, staring into space.  Adele leans against

the radiator behind him.  The silence in the room is thick.

Across the desk from Pete sits Leo Kubelsky.

Leo stands and walks to the window.

Leo turns to her and smiles.  His tone is charmingly matter-

of-factly, not condescending in the least.

Leo takes out a cigarette, lights it.

Leo pulls a folded paper from his coat pocket and hands it to

Pete.

There's a knock at the door.  Leo opens it.  Standing there

is a small MAN wearing a serious suit and an even more

serious fedora.

The Man reaches into his breast pocket and withdraws a blue

backed folded document, which he hands to Pete.  As he does,

a FLASH lights the room.

At the door, a pair of PHOTOGRAPHERS and a NEWSREEL CAMERAMAN

are jockeying for position.  Pete rolls his eyes.

Pete takes the subpoena.  There's an awkward moment, as the

newsreel camera is still rolling.  Pete cradles the subpoena

like an Oscar statuette and smiles into the lens.

THE SUBPOENA

in a partially-packed suitcase.

WIDER

INT.  PETE'S BEDROOM - DAY

Pete is sitting in a chair, reading the statement Leo gave

him.

He scans down the page.  It's a long list.

He HEARS a "meow!" And turns to look.

CAT

is standing in the bedroom doorway.  He folds up and pockets

the list.

After a moment, Old Tim appears in the doorway, wringing his

knit cap in his hands.

Pete stands, gestures Old Tim to the chair, as he sits on the

bed.

He sits.  Pause.

Pete turns to Old Tim, fixes him in the eye.

Pause, as Pete gathers courage and tries to find the words.

Old Tim stands and looks askance at Pete.

Pause.

He leans down to Pete.

Old Tim straightens up, nods at Pete.  Then, silently, he

picks up Cat and exits.

EXT.  LAWSON PASSENGER DEPOT - DAY

Pete and Adele walk slowly down the platform toward the

waiting train.

They both smile as the train's HORN blows.

Pete picks up his suitcase and they walk toward the passenger

compartment.

Adele pulls a pocket-sized leather-bound book out of her

purse and hands it to Pete.

INSERT - THE BOOK

Well-worn and scuffed, nevertheless the title is clear:

Pete looks at the book, then at Adele.

She thinks for a moment.  She needs the right words.

The train pulls out.  Adele and Pete exchange waves as we

INT.  BILTMORE HOTEL GRAND BALLROOM (LOS ANGELES) - DAY

The House Committee on Un-American Activities has effectively

taken over the Grand Ballroom of this magnificent hotel, and

the joint is packed to the rafters.  Members of the AUDIENCE

crane their necks to see out into the hallway, from where the

witnesses will be entering.

The COMMITTEE MEMBERS are seated at their dais, brightly lit

by the dozens of newsreel and TV lights.  Elvin Clyde is

seated at the far right.  Dead center of the dais is the

Chairman, CONGRESSMAN T. JOHNSTON DOYLE of Wisconsin, a

husky man in his late 50s.  He SLAMS his gavel down several

times and the room goes quiet -- the talking stops, and the

cameras start whirring.

INT.  LARDNER LIVING ROOM - DAY

Adele's in a chair, eyes glues to the TV set.  Mrs.

Terwilliger and Old Tim sit on the couch, watching

attentively.

Doc Lardner's in a straight-backed chair at a jaunty angle to

the set, holding the rabbit ears uncomfortably high aloft.

Lardner forces a smile at Mrs. Terwilliger and Old Tim.

INT.  BILTMORE HOTEL GRAND BALLROOM - DAY

Beat.  Doyle scans the room.  He clearly means business.

All eyes and cameras swing toward the door.

ON PETE

As he enters the chamber, dozens of FLASHBULBS fire as every

eye and every camera follows him silently to his seat.  As he

sits, he glances behind him.

PETE'S POV

Leo Kubelsky is sitting in the front row of spectators.  He

smiles and nods at Pete.

Pete doesn't acknowledge him, and turns back.

Pete does as instructed.

Doyle and Clyde exchange glances.

Pete turns in his chair and winks at Leo.  Leo rolls his eyes

and shakes his head.

INT.  LARDNER LIVING ROOM - DAY

Adele breathes a sigh of relief.

The TV shot swings to see Elvin Clyde.  He puts on his

glasses and fixes Pete with an oily grin.

INT.  BILTMORE HOTEL GRAND BALLROOM - DAY

A few spectators titter.

INT.  MABEL'S DINER - DAY

Mabel and Bob listen to the hearing on a radio in the packed

diner.

INT.  BILTMORE HOTEL GRAND BALLROOM - DAY

Clyde holds up copies of the Los Angeles Examiner and Los

Angeles Times with Pete's picture on the front page.

Beat.  Pete smiles.

The audience LAUGHS.  Clyde nods at Pete, forces a tight

smile.

INT.  WYATT'S HARDWARE - DAY

Avery Wyatt listens to the hearing on a store radio.  Spencer

comes around the paint aisle, wiping his hands on his apron.

He moves to the radio and listens solemnly.

INT.  BILTMORE HOTEL GRAND BALLROOM - DAY

Pete looks on the table and finds the roster.  He's surprised

to see it.

The audience LAUGHS.  Doyle BANGS his gavel.

The audience LAUGHS.  Clyde shoots a look at Doyle, who BANGS

his gavel.

Clyde shuffles some papers and looks back at Pete.

A few members of the audience APPLAUD.  As Pete speaks, their

numbers grow.

Doyle BANGS his gavel several times.  Pete stops and the room

falls quiet.

Clyde takes a long pause for effect, then looks up at Pete.

Beat.  Pete smiles.

Pete shifts in his chair, then leans into the microphone.

The chamber erupts in LAUGHTER.  Even the other COMMITTEE

MEMBERS are laughing, except Clyde and Doyle, who BANGS his

gavel vigorously.

INT.  SHERIFF'S OFFICE - DAY

Sheriff Eldridge and Daley Thornhill listen to the hearing on

the radio.  They are both laughing at Pete's last comment.

INT.  BILTMORE HOTEL GRAND BALLROOM - DAY

The room settles.  Doyle wags his finger accusingly at Pete.

INT.  LARDNER LIVING ROOM - DAY

Adele moves to within inches of the TV screen.

INT.  BILTMORE HOTEL GRAND BALLROOM - DAY

Clyde is still protesting, but Doyle waves him off.

Pete's sweating under the lights.  He's bluffed his last

bluff, and he's on the ropes.  He reaches into his pocket...

and takes out the prepared statement.

INT.  LARDNER LIVING ROOM - DAY

ADELE

Her hand goes to her mouth.

INT.  BILTMORE HOTEL GRAND BALLROOM - DAY

He stops suddenly.  Pause.

Pete fills a glass from the pitcher.  Nervously, he spills a

bit, and is splashes onto his coat.  As some of the

spectators chuckle, Pete brushes the water off.  He reaches

into his pocket, and pulls out Adele's copy of the

constitution.  The cover is wet.  He wipes it off and sets it

down on the table.

He takes a sip of water.  Looks at the book.  Picks it up.

Pete's terrified, but in control.  He speaks slowly -- he's

making this up and thinking it out as he goes.

He opens the book and reads, tentatively at first.

Pause.  Silence in the room.

ADELE

She's smiling at the TV.  Her eyes are filled with tears.

PETE

He looks up at Chairman Doyle.  Now fully confident.

Pin-drop silence in the room.  Pete scans the faces of the

panel.  All betray anger.

ON LEO

He can't help but smile and nod appreciatively.

And with that, Pete closes the book, picks up the prepared

statement, rips it up, pushes back his chair, stands and

walks toward the door.  The cameras swing with him, and

FLASHBULBS fire like machine guns.  Doyle BANGS his gavel

insistently.

And then, slowly, APPLAUSE builds in the chamber, reaching a

crescendo as Pete reaches the door and exits.

EXT.  BILTMORE HOTEL - DAY

As Pete exits the hotel, a DOZEN REPORTERS AND PHOTOGRAPHERS

have him completely surrounded.  FLASHBULBS pop.  He's taken

aback, flustered.

Pete is trapped in the crowd, when he feels a hand on his

shoulder.

LEO

spins him around, and pushes him through the crowd toward the

curb.

At the curb is a black Cadillac limousine.  Leo hauls open

the back door and pushes Pete in, before climbing in himself.

The limo drives away, as the reporters give chase.

INT.  LIMO (MOVING) - DAY

Leo and Pete sit side-by-side in silence for a moment.  Leo

breaks it.

They sit in silence again for a moment until Leo reaches into

his pocket and withdraws a gold cigarette case, which he

opens and offers to Pete.

Leo takes one for himself and lights up.  Pete takes off his

hat and nervously scratches his head.

But before Pete can answer...

Pete freezes.  He slowly turns to Leo.

Pete is dumbstruck.  He slumps in his seat, ashen.

Pete's breathing shallowly, on the verge of tears or

screaming -- or both.

EXT.  PETE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

The limo pulls up, and Leo opens the door.  Pete vacantly

grabs his suitcase and gets out.  Leo shuts the door and

calls after him, waving Pete's hat.

Pete comes back and takes his hat.  Leo grabs his hand.

As the limo pulls away, we

INT.  PETE'S APARTMENT (L.A.) - DAY

The door opens, revealing the Super, followed by a sullen

Pete, carrying his suitcases and hat.  He sets them down and

goes to the coffee table, where his boxes of belongings from

the studio have been gathering dust these last three months.

The Super moves to the door and turns back.

He exits as Pete reaches into one of the boxes and pulls out

the tin-toy fire truck.  Distractedly, Pete puts the toy back

in the box and replies too late:

He sets his suitcase down and takes off his coat.  As he

does, Adele's copy of the Constitution slips out of his coat

pocket and falls open to the floor.

Pete picks it up and absently turns it over -- and the

inscription inside the front cover catches his eye:

Pete closes the book.  He thinks for a moment, then glances

over at the phone.  He picks it up and dials "0."

EXT.  TRAIN (MOVING) - DAY

Our view of the moving train is from outside, as it speeds up

the spectacular coastline north of Santa Barbara.  Looking

into one of the train's windows, we SEE Pete sitting, staring

out at the passing scenery.

EXT.  LAWSON PASSENGER DEPOT - LATE AFTERNOON

The train is just pulling in to Lawson.  As it SHUDDERS to a

halt, the door of the passenger compartment opens and Pete

steps out -- looks -- and his jaw drops open...

HIS POV

The ENTIRE TOWN has turned out.  They're all there, smiling

broadly.  A large, hand-lettered banner reads:

A CHEER goes up from the crowd, breaking the silence.  Pete

descends from the train and moves into the throng.  The first

two people he encounters are Bob Leffert and Mabel Lanier.

bob sticks out his good hand and Pete takes it, both smiling

as they shake hands vigorously.

Mabel's mouth drops open.

As Mabel kisses Bob for all she's worth, Pete continues into

the crowd, where he's kissed, embraced, patted on the back.

ADELE

is at the back of the crowd, working her way to the front.

She rushes into Pete's arms, and they kiss.  Another CHEER

goes up.

They kiss again.  Pete pulls away and looks at his watch.

The train whistle BLOWS as it slowly pulls out of the

station.

We BOOM UP to see Pete and Adele moving into and being

enveloped by the crowd.

Spencer Wyatt's band is assembled in front of the depot

office, and they kick into some up-tempo boogie-woogie as we

move up and away -- still in the same shot -- moving over the

town, settling down again to grab a shot of the Bijou's

marquee.  The neon chaser lights POP ON, illuminating the

sign, which reads:

Then, the letters on the marquee START SHAKING.  We BOOM UP

TO THE TOP OF THE THEATER, and the "BIJOU" sign...

... as the train RUMBLES BY behind the theater...

... and the "J" teeters loose and swings by a thread...

... and we IRIS DOWN ON IT AND...

