Fourth draft (1991)

Screenplay by James Baldwin, Arnold Perl and Spike Lee

Based on The Autobiography of Malcolm X as told to Alex Haley

FADE IN:

It is a bright sunny day on a crowded street on the black side of

Boston. PEOPLE and KIDS are busy with their own things.

SHORTY bops his way down the street. He is a runty, very dark

young man of 21 with a mission and a smile on his face. He wears

the flamboyant style of the time: the whole zoot-suit, pegged legs

and a wide brim hat with a white feather stuck in the hat band.

FOLLOW SHOT. Shorty dodges through the crowd with his packages.

His smile is one of anticipation. He nods to a PAL without

stopping; eyes a COUPLE OF CHICKS dancing on the street, but is

not dissuaded.

Shorty has his jacket and hat off, his sleeves rolled up. He is like a

surgeon preparing for an operation. His equipment is spread out on

a table: can of lye, large mason jar, wooden stirring spoon, knife,

the eggs. His actions have the character of a ritual: each thing

being done just so, in time-honored fashion.

He slices the potatoes and drops the thin slices into the mason jar.

He adds water and makes a paste of the starch.

Behind Shorty is a spirited barbershop conversation. ONE MAN is

one of them from behind a newspaper. A middle-aged barber,

CHOLLY, is doing most of the talking.

The men laugh.

ANGLE - Shorty pries open the can of lye, whiffs it. It's good and

strong. He pours some in the mason jar, stirring with the wooden

spoon. He cracks the eggs into the mixture and stirs. He waits as

fumes rise and feels the outside of the jar as it gets hot.

ANOTHER ANGLE - The barbershop SEEN from a door, slightly

ajar. A woolly head, entirely in shadow, peers out.

Cholly is annoyed. It's _his_ story.

ON SHORTY - He opens the bulky package he has been carrying,

unfolds a large rubber apron and gets into it. Now he dons a pair of

He is all ready; one of his hands is filled with a huge glob of

Vaseline. His manner is indignant as if he were asking the whereabouts

of an exasperating child.

His hands full, Cholly opens the door with his feet and MALCOLM comes

out, a big, gawky, bright-faced country boy, wearing downhome clothes

and an expression of apprehension.

Malcolm allows himself to be led to an empty chair, where Cholly drapes

him with a double sheet, tucking it tightly around his neck and adding

a protective collar of paper.

...Like anything else. First time a chick gets her

cherry popped, she might put up a little fight. But

pretty soon you can't give her enough. Right,

Homeboy?

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Malcolm gulps, his eyes on the fuming mason jar.

Shorty starts massaging a great quantity of Vaseline into Malcolm's

scalp, covering his neck and ears as well. All the men have gathered

kind of execution.

Shorty applies the Vaseline to that area.  Now he brings over the

steaming jar and places it nearby.

Malcolm nods his head, clenches his eyes and grits his teeth. Shorty

applies the congolene with a comb, working it into Malcolm's hair.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

For a moment nothing happens, then the heat hits him. He yells, tries

to catch his breath: his head is on fire.

He nearly leaps out of the chair, but the barber restrains him.

Shorty, utterly unmoved by the outburst, continues working the

congolene into his hair.

Malcolm breaks out of the chair wildly. But the three men drag him to a

basin where Shorty has attached the shower spray. His cries filling the

room, Malcolm is ducked under the spray. Shorty starts rinsing out his

hair.

Malcolm is a little relieved, he tentatively opens his eyes, then he

feels the congolene again and there is another outburst. Shorty forces

his head under the spray, spurts the water all over his head, wetting

Malcolm and the shop in the process.

Shorty is supervising as Malcolm tries on a zoot suit. He slips into

the jacket...

Shoes-off, Malcolm steps into the tight-fltting peg-legged pants ......

outfitted, he leans forward toward his new image in the full-length

mirror, twirling a long, dangling key chain.

The transformation is complete. The two laugh and slap hands.

Malcolm and Shorty come strutting down the street: two conked,

zoot-suited sharpies. Hometown boy has departed. And the CHICKS on the

street notice them, especially Malcolm, the taller of the two, the

lighter-skinned, the more dominant. They walk imperiously past, fully

aware of their impact.

CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM

FREEZE FRAME. He becomes a STILL.

ANGLE. A pregnant Louise Little on porch.

ANGLE. The Klan breaks all the windows in the house then rides off into

the glorious D.W. Griffith _Birth of a Nation_ moonlit night.

CLOSE - LOUISE LITTLE

ANGLE. The terrified Little children look out a broken window at their

mother.

ANGLE. AN OLD FRAME HOUSE IN OMAHA

ANGLE. FRONT PORCH OF THE LITTLE HOUSE - AN EMPTY ROCKER ON IT

He looks directly into the camera, wearing a Baptist Minister's robe.

He wears a Garvey hat, ornate with gold braid.

CLOSE - EARL LITTLE:

preaching.

ANGLE. The nine Little children.

CLOSE - LOUISE LITTLE

She is a pretty, mature woman and white-looking.

A posed wedding picture, serious but sweet.

CLOSE SHOT

Flash bulb of camera flashes.

CLOSE - MALCOLM AND SHORTY

They both were posed for a picture. The music "FLYING HOME" is blaring

as LIONEL HAMPTON and his band is killing. The music is WILD, the

BLACK, although there is a peppering of WHITES, especially white chicks.

couples on the floor.

A BOY in extreme zoot-suit flips him; a WHITE GIRL in long blond

hair wigs him. Malcolm is a little open-mouthed.

ANGLE - THE BALLROOM - NIGHT

People start moving off the floor, making room for the dancers. The

music begins to get faster and more furious.

CLOSE - HAMPTON'S BAND - NIGHT

It is a fast Lindy. People start clapping to the beat as they form a U

around the DANCERS, with the band at the open end.

TWO COUPLES are on the floor, dancing wildly. They are quickly joined

by a half dozen OTHERS. These are the best dancers and constitute the

main event of a Saturday night black dance. People crowd and push to

get better vantage points and the competition is under way.

ANGLE ON THE CROWD

It is dominantly black, but there are some whites in the audience,

mostly women. One is SOPHIA, a spectacular blonde with a degree of

her eye, but for the moment Sophia is just watching, looking for no one

in particular, but nonetheless looking.

ANGLE: - COUPLE ON THE DANCE FLOOR

Getting ready to enter the fray, the GIRL takes off her shoes and

bounces out on the floor barefoot with her partner. Their advent is

greeted with cheers and ad libs. Clearly the crowd has its favorites.

WIDER SHOT

The music gets faster and the dancing takes on a more frantic and more

remarkable quality.

FOLLOW SHOT - MALCOLM

He is looking for his partner, the girl he brought and now he sees her.

He makes his way through the watching audience.

CLOSE - LAURA

She is a fine chick, cool and beautiful. She smiles as she sees Malcolm

approaching.

TWO-SHOT. Laura and Malcolm stand together, delighted to be with one

another, starting to move to the music, as they watch the dancers.

Laura smiles shyly; she's willing.

Laura laughs, goes quickly to a bench and changes into a pair of

sneakers.

Because of the competition, Laura and Malcolm begin at high speed. In a

moment they are executing the most intricate steps of the "flapping

eagle" and the "kangaroo." Malcolm starts boosting her over and around

his hips, then boosting her over his shoulders. Laura is the perfect

partner. She loves it.

ANGLE WITH THE CROWD

So does the crowd, who loves new stars. There are ad lib remarks: "Go,

ANGLE: - SHORTY

A big, fat, hefty BLACK WOMAN takes Shorty out to the dance floor, and

she takes the lead. As they do the Lindy she is slinging Shorty around

like a rag doll. This woman slides him through her legs and Shorty has

had enough, he runs off the dance floor, and hides.

TWO-SHOT. Laura and Malcolm are, in the phrase, cooking on all burners

now; and when they execute an especially intricate step, even Hamp

waves over.

Malcolm is sweating and flushed and enormously elated. He sees that

people are watching him, goading him on. He notices that Sophia, in

particular, has not taken her eyes off him; she is clapping in time to

his steps.

Seeing new stars in the making, the other dancers move to the side of

the floor, marking time, yielding the dance floor to them. Laura and

Malcolm go into a solo.

ANGLES

The crowd loves it. Malcolm and Sophia are very aware of each other.

The finale is the classic drag, with Laura hanging limp around

Malcolm's neck as he capers off the dance floor to the spontaneous

applause of the audience.

CLOSE SHOT - SOPHIA (SLO-MO)

Clapping enthusiastically -- in open admiration.

CLOSE SHOT - SHORTY

Waiting to catch them as they come off. Shorty is whistling and shaking

his hand appreciatively. He is also looking out for his dance partner.

Laura laughs as she goes. She surely will be back.

Then his vision catches Sophia, who is approaching him. She makes a

simple, direct gesture, "Want to dance?" Malcolm eyes Shorty and

wordlessly glides into Sophia's arms.

ANGLE - THE DANCE FLOOR

Immediately from the glances of the other men at the dance, he is the

cynosure of all eyes. He has new status. It's a heady feeling because

she is the first white girl he has ever been with socially who is not

an obvious whore. He begins to show off a little, cuts a few fine

steps.

TWO-SHOT. They are dancing closer than before. Sophia begins to rock

his black world.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Trying to play it cool -- but he is beginning to pant. Not from the

dancing, but from the situation: a gorgeous white chick asking for

He stops in his tracks. He can't believe it.

He can only grin.

The porch of a respectable house. Malcolm with Laura; he anxious to get

away.

Laura walks to the door.

The front door opens, it's Laura's grandmother, MRS. JOHNSON.

He runs down the porch steps.

The lone light emits from the car radio which plays The Inkspots' "IF I

ANGLE - SOPHIA

Sophia pulls her tight sweater over her head to expose two full ripe

white breasts. Malcolm's eyes are popping out of his head. NOTE: It's

very unusual for women not to wear a bra back in that day but you might

say Sophia was way ahead of her time.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He shakes his head.

He is paralyzed.

Malcolm mumbles something. He then kisses Sophia as if his black life

depended on it and he commences to kill it.

She already knows the answer. He laughs.

Knowing she's right, Sophia becomes the aggressor.

A beat -- both panting -- then Malcolm stops abruptly. He raises his

hand to his face, then to Sophia's hand which is still caressing him.

CLOSE - SOPHIA

She shrugs, then moves to embrace him.

The couple starts at it again.

On the screen, Bogart and Cagney are blasting away the dirty, flat-

footed coppers with machine guns. It's one of those great Warner

Brothers gangster B movies, maybe _The Roaring Twenties_.

ANGLE - MALCOLM AND SHORTY

Malcolm and Shorty sit, transfixed in their seats.

A bright, sunny day, long shadows in the park. The Commons is almost

empty. Two improbable zoot-suited blacks race past trees, and run over

the grass. Malcolm and Shorty are playing Cops and Robbers while

PASSERSBY stare.

Malcolm fires an imaginary tommy machine gun at Shorty.

Shorty shoots Malcolm from behind.

Malcolm acts as if he's been hit.

Malcolm starts to stagger, this is a long drawn out Hollywood drawn-out

death a la Cagney death in _Public Enemy_.

LOW ANGLE - MALCOLM

Malcolm falls directly into the camera, face first, and Shorty stands

over him.

MATCH CUT

CLOSE EARL LITTLE

Earl Little's face is in the same exact position as Malcolm's from the

previous scene. His mouth opens in terror as the moving trolley comes

closer and closer to the black man lying on the tracks.

A room, clinically empty; table, chair, and MR. HOLWAY. He is putting

papers into his briefcase; the hearing is concluded.

He is nearly out the door.

Malcolm lies in bed, naked under the sheet. A half-empty whiskey bottle

and an ashtray full of butts are on the night table: last night's

partying.

WIDEN TO SHOW SOPHIA at the stove fixing eggs. She wears an apron and

nothing else. It's a nicely furnished middle-class apartment.

She shrugs, shuts off the burner, smiles and ambles toward him.

She starts to sit down on the bed next to him.

He points to a nearby chair. Sophia makes an amiable hand-shrug and

complacently goes.

He doesn't want to hear her; he wants to talk. He goes right on:

Sophia smiles. She aims to please. Malcolm smacks the bed next to him.

She gets up and comes over.

She takes off the apron.

CLOSE - SOPHIA

As Sophia bends to do so.

ANGLE. Sophia now has the scrambled eggs on a plate at Malcolm's side.

She spoons some into his mouth. He chews and swallows slowly, then

grabs her head and brings it to his. A long, brutal kiss. Then he pulls

her head away by the hair. She looks at him: anything he wants.

Malcolm lays back on the pillow and she holds out the eggs to him.

Malcolm and Laura are on a deserted Cape beach. They are dressed but

have their shoes and socks off, and he has his trousers rolled up. They

walk, like birds, avoiding getting their feet wet as the waves roll in.

Laura stops him and moves to him. Her kiss is a tender one, exploratory.

Then Malcolm responds, embracing her fully. Her arms go around him as

they both drop into the sand.

CLOSE - MALCOLM AND LAURA

Malcolm turns his head from her, he gets up.

She looks at him.

Laura is eating a banana split. Malcolm is smoking and drinking coffee.

Laura looks over. She doesn't understand.

Louise's hand reaches for a small sack of flour stamped "Not For Sale."

She brings it down on the table with a hard, controlled whap.

Louise doesn't look up.

WIDEN TO SHOW Louise with a WHITE SOCIAL WORKER, MISS DUNNE complete

with pad, pencil and goodwill. Huddled out of sight, but nonetheless

visible, are five small BLACK CHILDREN.

Louise is very aware of the children and struggling for self-possession.

One of the children brings over a chair. Miss Dunne sets out her papers.

PAN THE CHILDREN'S FACES

The terror-stricken children huddle together.

FREEZE FRAME. It becomes a still.

MALCOLM PLAYING BASKETBALL.

Good grades. 			I wasn't there. Like I was some

Fine athlete.			kind of pedigreed dog or a horse.

President of his class.		Like I was invisible.

OSTROWSKI is talking to Malcolm, it's after school, the classroom is

empty.

Laura and Malcolm. Neither is talking. She is simply watching him as he

sips his coffee and puffs on a cigarette.

Malcolm is silent.

CLOSE - LAURA

It reads "KALAMAZOO STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE MENTALLY INSANE"

The room is totally white and Louise sits in a white smock at a window

in a rocking chair.

CLOSE LOUISE

As she rocks.

ANGLE - Louise starts to sing a Negro spiritual.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He has been standing there in deep pain all along.

THE SOUND OF A SPEEDING TRAIN IS HEARD.

The crack train of the New York, New Haven & Hartford speeds through

the New England countryside.

THREE ELDERLY BLACK WAITERS and Malcolm wearing a sandwichman's uniform

are crowded around a portable radio in the galley where food is

prepared. The four stand around TULLY, a bland-faced personification of

fine Pullman service. They are all listening to the JOE LOUIS-BILLY

CONN heavyweight championship fight.

Tully turns some knobs.

The waiters are acting as if they are at ringside.

The waiters are going crazy.

The waiters are all jumping up and down when the galley door opens. MR.

In a moment's notice Tully and the others have resumed their customary

servient roles.

Cooper eyes him narrowly.

As Malcolm hefts his sandwich basket and a large container of coffee

down the aisle, hawking as he goes.

ANGLE FAVORING A WHITE CUSTOMER, BLADES.

Malcolm's mood is exuberant: the fight is still in his ears. He makes

the delivery with a flourish and a smile.

pushes it in Blades' face.

Normality again: Malcolm finishes serving him with complete servility.

He pulls out a bill.

And takes a satisfying bite out of his thin sandwich.

As the Clipper surfaces in Harlem, pulls up to the 125th Street

station.

Malcolm, out of uniform and dressed in his zoot suit, comes down from

the Park Avenue station in Harlem. He is hit with the sights and sounds.

Everything delights him: the noise, the lights, the women, the pimps,

the signs, the windows, the crowds, the laughter, the music.

A CROWD OF PEOPLE run by Malcolm yelling and screaming.

He runs after them.

All traffic has stopped, there is a huge spontaneous celebration going

on. Black folks are everywhere, it seems as if all of Harlem is out on

the streets. The citizens of Harlem are hugging, kissing, drinking,

dancing, folks are hanging from street lamps, yelling out their

windows, holding up hand-made JOE LOUIS banners, everyone has great

reason to be joyous. The heavyweight champion of the world is a BLACK

MAN -- JOE LOUIS, THE BROWN BOMBER, he has regained his championship.

CLOSE: - MALCOLM

Malcolm quickly looks at his watch, he's running late for his train, as

he fights his way through the crowd like a salmon going upstream, the

CAMERA CRANES up to see him eventually get lost in a sea of BLACK

HUMANITY "cutting loose."

Malcolm, newly conked and sharp as a tack (zoot suit, trouser crease

like a knife's edge, orange knob-toed shoes) walks toward his goal:

Small's Paradise.

The street is crowded with PEOPLE, KIDS and HUSTLERS.

Malcolm smiles "No thanks" keeps moving.

Before entering, Malcolm sharps himself a bit, picking off some lint,

cocking his hat. And enters.

The restaurant is crowded, both at the bar and at the tables beyond.

The immediate impression is of subdued well-being, of decorum, of easy

affluence. This is the world Malcolm wants into. He digs it, drinking

in its details.

ANGLE - BAR

A big man, FOX, accidentally bumps into Malcolm almost knocking over.

Everyone becomes quiet in the bar.

Malcolm grabs a bottle off the bar counter and with lightning speed

brings it crashing down on Fox's head. As he lays on the floor with

head bleeding, Malcolm kicks him in the stomach _two times_. It's done,

ANGLE WITH MALCOLM AND THE BARTENDER

BARTENDER pours him a double.

He points.

ARCHIE AT THE TABLE - FROM MALCOLM'S POV

The elderly man nods. He is big, he is very black. The same color as

Malcolm's father.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He raises his glass, toasts Archie and downs it. Then leaning into the

bar, asks:

The bartender would not normally answer this, but Malcolm is the man of

the moment, so the bartender speaks:

Malcolm nods, then looks over again at Archie -- in appreciation.

Archie wiggles a finger for him to come over.

Malcolm is standing.

Malcolm sits. There are no introductions. He just nods at SAMMY and

CADILLAC.

Sammy and Cadillac are watching a little skeptically. Archie is

flattered.

Then seeing Sammy and Cadillac's dubious visages, Archie adds:

Archie laughs. Even Sammy smiles. Cadillac still holds his judgment.

Sammy covers his eyes. Malcolm plays off the insults.

Malcolm reaches for a pencil.

Archie looks at him sharply.

Malcolm does so.

Archie and Sammy laugh at his directness. Cadillac smiles. Archie

pushes back his chair, about to get up.

Malcolm has suddenly been excluded and he wants desperately back in.

Archie eyes him, weighing him seriously.

The three established hustlers smile at the newcomer in their midst.

Malcolm is looking at himself in a mirror in Archie's room. He has on

the full outfit now, together with a new white on white shirt and a

Sulka tie. Looks great.

Malcolm buttons the jacket and turns around, demonstrating for Archie's

inspection.

Malcolm doesn't understand, but he senses something -- and becomes

excited. Archie has walked over to him.

Malcolm frisks him carefully: pats his sides, his pockets, under his

arms, his legs. Archie is clean to the touch.

He smacks the small of his back. Then, reaching under his coat, he

takes a revolver out from the middle of his back. And hands it to

Malcolm.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Holding the deadly instrument, fascinated by it, hefting it, feeling

its power.

Malcolm slips it carefully into the small of his back, behind his

trouser belt. His first gun: the feeling shines in his eyes, Bogart has

become a black man.

A FIVE DOLLAR BILL. CAMERA GOES IN for the last three digits.

three numbers.

Malcolm scribbles the number onto a piece of paper.

Ringing up an amount: $2.98.

Malcolm's hand writes out the number.

It reads "New York to Chicago." PAN DOWN TO SHOW "Train arrives 1:05."

Archie with Malcolm as the latter writes down "1, 0, 5."

He taps his head.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

WE ARE TIGHT ON Malcolm's intense face, he is pulling on a fat joint.

We hear BOGART blasting his way out of a police blockade.

A phone rings.

fine crystal onto a round shaving mirror. He slides it across a table

to Malcolm and hands him a short straw. Sophia sits next to Malcolm;

she and Archie are already high. Malcolm leans over the mirror, placing

the straw in his nostril.

TIGHT CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM'S FACE

In the mirror (something satanic about him) -- as he sniffs the cocaine

well into his nose.

A beat as he leans back waiting for the drug to take hold, Malcolm

looks into dressing mirror.

Malcolm with gun in hand does his Bogart gangster imitation.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

FREEZE FRAME

She continues to laugh.

BACK TO REAL TIME.

Before Sophia can answer he grabs her pocketbook, dumping all the

contents on the floor but the dough.

Sophia is not sure of this, or anything else.

She laughs at her achievement.

With each number he throws a bill at Archie.

Malcolm slides his tongue down Sophia's throat.

A miserable night, raining and cold. Malcolm turns into the bar.

Shaking off the rain as Malcolm walks through. He is now a familiar

figure to the bar's DENIZENS. He is met with ad lib cries: "Hey,

Little," "Have a taste," from the men; and from the women: "Come here,

sugar," "Where you been?"

Malcolm acknowledges the greetings, strolls down in the bar. It's

immediately clear that a subtle change has come over him. He is no

longer the neophyte but a well-groomed, smooth, fully polished hustler.

ANGLE - BOOTH

Malcolm sits into the booth and motions for the waitress.

ANGLE - HONEY

A fine copper tan waitress comes to him.

Honey stares at him.

She leaves. He leans his head back against the booth --

Malcolm turns his head sharply at the sound of the voice. It's

familiar, a sound from the seemingly distant past. He looks toward the

bar and sees the women who asked the question.

LAURA - MALCOLM'S POV

It's Laura, but not the Laura we last saw. She is still young, still

vulnerable, but she is bolder, more self-assured, more vividly dressed.

She is unaware of Malcolm.

ANGLE FAVORING DANIEL. He is a young, cocky, nervous, gingerbread

colored boy who comes over to her quickly. He goes to the corner of the

bar and quickly grabs Laura's neck and kisses her hungrily.

It's obvious he's a junkie. And in need of a fix. QUICK!

SHOT - MALCOLM

Honey places his drink and cigarettes before him. He's watching, taking

it all in immediately. Laura is clearly crazy about Daniel.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He looks, then belts down his drink.

CLOSER - LAURA AND DANIEL

Daniel motions to her pocketbook and she takes out a five-dollar bill.

He grabs it, and bolts for the door.

WITH MALCOLM AND HONEY

She has been watching Malcolm.

Honey nods.

ANGLE - LAURA

Walking toward the door, looking for Daniel. She leaves the bar.

CLOSE - MALCOLM AND HONEY

Malcolm smacks the table in frustration.

CLOSE - GLASS

Malcolm's glass on the table is trembling.

He raises his arm to hit her and it is held back before it can find its

mark.

Archie is standing above him. Malcolm nods, and Archie lets his arm go;

standing next to him is Sophia.

Archie wiggles his fingers and Honey goes, but not before throwing

daggers at Malcolm and Sophia. Archie sits down, takes out a cigar. For

a good beat there is a coolness between them. Then Malcolm reaches over

and lights Archie's cigar. Sophia stares at her man, he then motions

for her to sit down beside him.

The father-son thing is back, but Malcolm will never again be the

student.

Archie looks at him, non-comprehending.

Archie doesn't even look at Sophia.

Archie is controlling himself. Everyone in Small's is all ears, a

ANGLE. Archie looks at Sammy. Sammy is neutral. Archie digs in his

pockets, comes up with a roll. He peels off six $100 bills and throws

them on the table in front of himself, as he gets up.

Archie goes.

Sammy goes.

The well-known 52nd Street nightspot features Billie Holiday. A

stand-up cutout of her is outside.

This is a plush nightclub, with a mixed black and white AUDIENCE. Some

CLOSE - BILLIE

Lady Day starts into "YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT LOVE IS."

ANGLE - TABLE

Malcolm and Sophia high as a kite and on the town.

CLOSE - ARCHIE

He makes his way toward Malcolm's table. There is murder in his eyes.

ANGLE - TABLE

CLOSE - ARCHIE

ANGLE - TABLE

His eyes gesture. Malcolm looks:

MALCOLM'S P0V

Sammy at the nearby bar: his hand in his coat pocket.

CLOSE - ARCHIE

His hand is also in his pocket.

Archie backs away from the table, his gun on Malcolm.

ANGLE. As Sammy moves a step toward Malcolm, Malcolm rises in his seat.

CLOSE - BILLIE

She knows what's going on.

ANGLE - Sammy and Archie are walking behind Malcolm, when he pushes a

waitress into their path with drinks flying everywhere, Malcolm darts

away.

ANGLE. Archie and Sammy run after him.

There is an open window. Archie is leaning out, looking both ways.

A tiny alleyway. No one is visible.

Malcolm comes running out of an alleyway and onto the street. He stops

to catch his breath, to regain his composure. He is shook up,

frustrated, but mostly saddened. He then runs down the block and into a

CLOSEUP.

FINAL FLASHBACK

CLOSE - EARL

Earl is sitting up in bed, he wakes his sleeping wife Louise, next to

her is a baby in a crib, another child. Malcolm sleeps between Earl and

her.

Outside the house are 5 members of THE BLACK LEGION. They are dressed

in the style of the KKK, but in black sheets rather than white. WE SEE

gasoline cans being passed around.

Earl starts to put on his overalls and reaches for his gun which sits

on a nearby chair when an explosion of flames greets the house.

ANGLE - CHILDREN'S BEDROOM

Flames roar through the room and the Little kids are hysterical. Louise

rushes in and pushes them past the fire, she has infant in hand covered

in a blanket.

CLOSE - EARL

The entire house is in flames. The Little family stands in front of it,

just out of harm's way.

ANGLE - BLACK LEGION

They sit on their horses watching the results of their work.

CLOSE - BLACK LEGION LEADER

CLOSE - EARL

CLOSE - EARL

Earl takes his pistol out from behind his back and fires above their

heads.

ANGLE - BLACK LEGION

The bullets send the Black Legion flying into the glorious D.W. Griffith

ANGLE - HOUSE

The burning house collapses behind the Little family.

ANGLE - EARL AND LOUISE

bothering us no more.

CLOSE - YOUNG MALCOLM

Young Malcolm stares at his father while the house still burns behind

him, no doubt drawing on the great courage displayed by his father.

It's raining cats and dogs and it's foggy. We hear a big thud, then a

grunt and Earl Little falls across the trolley tracks, the sound of men

running away is heard in the distance.

ANGLE - A STREETCAR APPROACHES

ANGLE - EARL ON TRACKS

He has been beaten to a bloody pulp.

ANGLE - CLOSER SHOT OF STREETCAR APPROACHING

CLOSE - EARL

He opens his one good eye.

CLOSE - STREETCAR MOTORMAN

He sees something ahead in the fog and rain.

ANGLE - MOTORMAN'S POV

CLOSE - HAND REACHES BRAKE LEVER

CLOSE - STREETCAR WHEELS STOPPING, SPARKS FLY

CLOSE - MOTORMAN

Winces and then makes the Sign of the Cross.

ANGLE - LONG SHOT OF PASSENGERS

Jumping out of the streetcar to attend to Earl.

Shorty is driving with Sophia in the front seat. Malcolm is in the

back. They are in the country -- outside New York.

Malcolm has withdrawn within himself. He takes out a packet of cocaine

and sniffs it.

The drug takes hold. Malcolm is out of it.

He and Sophia keep talking it up, trying to bolster Malcolm.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Stoned, his nose running, Malcolm stares out of the window at the

receding landscape. FREEZE FRAME.

Music of a dance combo heard in BG.

Shorty, Sophia and PEG face Malcolm -- stoned in a chair. PEG is 17,

Peg smiles, afraid of Malcolm.

Shorty eyes him with amazement. The degree of Malcolm's depravity

surprises even him.

Glances exchanged among Shorty, Sophia and Peg. Shorty reaches into his

pocket.

Malcolm with Sophia, Shorty and Peg around him.

Nobody answers; they'll go with Malcolm.

RUDY is with them. He is a good-looking, very-light skinned black,

tough as they come.

They are in the process of appraising each other, seeing which one has

the bigger penis.

Peg and Sophia are listening, a little horrified.

Malcolm smiles easily.

He takes out his gun, a .38 revolver. He dumps the shells on the table,

then reinserts one shell and twirls the barrel.

He puts the revolver to his own head.

Malcolm squeezes the trigger. It clicks. Now he twirls the barrel again

and hands the gun to Rudy.

Rudy is staring at him; so are they all. Malcolm puts the gun to his

temple again.

He pulls the trigger a second time. Click. Now he twirls it again.

Malcolm puts the gun to Rudy's head.

A beat.

Nodding accord from Rudy and Shorty. Sophia can hardly stand.

Rudy is at a table drawing a diagram; the girls have left. Shorty and

Malcolm alone at a window.

He breaks open the gun -- the bullet is in the next slot to be fired.

Malcolm starts laughing: a silent, hysterical laugh.

The robbery, IN QUICK CUTS:

--A door lock is picked by Sophia.

wallet from within inches of his pillow. Then, more boldly, picks up

the man's hand and removes a ring from one of his fingers. Shorty

watching with bated breath, he's about to have a heart attack.

A Boston matron, MRS. CRAWFORD, is showing the girls her collection of

U.S. silver. In a fine New England home.

SHOT -- AN ARRANGEMENT OF MUSEUM-QUALITY PIECES

Sophia is casing the room carefully as the matron continues.

The prisoners face the bench: Peg, Sophia, Shorty, Rudy and Malcolm.

He continues giving them 8 to 10 years, behind Malcolm's comment:

CAMERA HAS GONE IN for a TIGHT CLOSE SHOT of Malcolm's face: a hardened

hustler, pimp, dope peddler and now jailbird at the ripe old age of 20.

FREEZE FRAME.

It is the afternoon lockup: about 3:30 P.M. The line of PRISONERS

stands in front of their cells, as two guards, WILKINS and BARNES, one

white, one black, slowly walk past the P.M. check.

The procedure is routine, done without emotion, as it is done three

times a day: the black guard calls out the prisoner's name, the

prisoner answers with his number, then steps into his cell. Whereupon

the white guard slams the door shut and locks it.

Door is slammed and gate locked.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Each time a gate is locked his tension increases. His face is a mask

hiding his fury, violence and the hunger of an advanced junkie who has

not had a fix in over a week.

Same procedure.

ANGLE. SHOOTING PAST MALCOLM, FAVORING TWO OTHER PRISONERS. The guards

are approaching Malcolm's cell. Past Malcolm are two experienced

PRISONERS who have been watching Malcolm during the scene. They whisper

surreptitiously without moving their bodies, and barely moving their

lips. One of the prisoners is PETE, a huge barrel of a man, a lifer --

beaten by the system and a lifetime of incarceration. The other is

BEMBRY, a man of no great physicality, but who possesses immediately

the gift of leadership. It is clear that Pete and others look up to him

with great respect.

Bembry's language is very unhip. He speaks carefully. He respects words

and he respects himself, something which sets him apart from all the

other prisoners.

ANGLE. The check-in has reached the man next to Malcolm.

Door slammed and locked.

CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM

The guards are now in front of him.

Malcolm doesn't move.

Malcolm doesn't answer, doesn't blink.

ANGLE. Bembry in the FG of the scene.

It's a bold step by Bembry and the prisoners look over at him with

admiration. Barnes accepts the irregularity and calls over to Bembry.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Shaking his head in anguish. He knows what's coming.

ANGLE. Barnes makes a small gesture and Wilkins seizes Malcolm,

grabbing his head and uniform at the same time. Stenciled on the chest

of his faded dungarees is Malcolm's number. The guard bends Malcolm's

head to the number, shoving the material in Malcolm's face.

And slams Malcolm hard. He slumps to the floor.

Wilkins drags Malcolm off as Barnes resumes the roll call.

Only the faintest light comes into the hideous room, which consists of

a mattress and a slop bucket. If Malcolm were to stretch out his arms,

he could touch both walls. He lies half on the stone floor, half on the

A clang as the heavy door is opened.

Malcolm stands.

A beat as Malcolm stares at the man, refusing to answer.

And slams the door shut.

It is almost pitch black. We can almost smell the stench of the room.

Malcolm sits stony-faced, his back against a wall.

The long spigot of a watering can is pushed through an opening in

the cell door. Malcolm, animal-like, leaps at it and bends the spout,

wrenching it off in his fury.

TWO-SHOT - A WHITE CHAPLAIN AND MALCOLM

Door slam.

Malcolm is alone at the bars: the hope of freedom filling his mind.

Malcolm pulls at the bars, tries to shake them in impotent fury. He

pounds the walls. Empty, sick, defeated, his nails scratching the

walls, he slides to the floor of the cell.

It is the low point of his life: nowhere to turn, nothing to hope for.

Guard Cone is shaking him into consciousness.

Malcolm just about makes it. The guard is in half-focus.

He is beaten.

A shower is heard.

Malcolm stands with bowed head as the hot water cascades over his

broken body. He lets it run and run, but it cannot really touch his

problems. On a nearby bench are his clothes, his towel and the makings

for a conk: lye, Vaseline, comb, etc.

He turns for a moment as he sees he is being watched by someone. It's

Bembry standing nearby. Malcolm turns away, trying to find solace in

the water. He wants no part of the world or anyone, just to be left

alone.

Malcolm shows no flicker of interest or understanding.

He puts down a small matchbox on the bench next to Malcolm's things.

Malcolm eyes him like a snake -- but the punishment has reduced him to

deep insecurity and his belligerence is more cautious than angry.

But he steps out of the shower, fills a tin cup with water and empties

the contents of the matchbox into it. And drinks it down quickly.

Malcolm sits, toweling himself as the spice hits him. For the first, he

smiles; this is the first relief he has tasted in prison. He at Bembry

wonderingly, unable to figure him out.

This is a new breed of cat; Malcolm has never met anyone like him. He

eyes him closely, as he slips into his clothes.

He begins to conk his hair, but is paying attention to what Bembry is

saying.

Malcolm looks over, piqued.

Malcolm is putting the conk into his hair now.

These last words are spoken sharply with disgust. Malcolm turns his

hands massaging the conk into his hair.

He turns the water on to wash out the conk -- which has begun to burn.

Bembry restrains him, holding his arm.

But it is burning now.

He wrenches away from Bembry and puts his head in the water.

Malcolm is drying his hair, finishing his conk. But some of what Bembry

has said disturbs him.

Malcolm is completely humiliated. Bembry sees this and stops the

barrage.

And he is gone. Malcolm stands looking after him, a long thoughtful

moment. He is pulling the comb through his hair.

PRISONERS are working on a beltline that stamps out and finishes

license plates. Bembry is on the stamping machines, working as he talks

to the other prisoners. Malcolm is painting the plates, a little

removed from Bembry, but listening with interest. Barnes, with rifle,

idles by a window.

A whistle sounds, ending the work shift. The inmates quickly file out

into the yard. Bembry stays. Malcolm is half decided.

Barnes gestures to Malcolm.

He goes.

Malcolm has been pondering all this and now grows animated as he thinks

he has come to the essence of a hustle.

WE CAN READ the fine print of the definition:

PULLBACK TO SHOW Bembry and Malcolm in a small PRISON LIBRARY. No one

else is in the book-lined room.

Bembry turns the pages of the dictionary to "w."

CLOSE SHOT - DICTIONARY DEFINITION OF "WHITE"

Malcolm stumbles through the definition as well as he can. Bembry takes

over the reading, giving it ironic emphasis.

SHOT - THE SHELVES OF BOOKS

Bembry smiles at Malcolm. He is a remarkable man who always takes

careful measure of his listener. He never talks down to his audience;

he talks to them. (A manner Malcolm later will adopt.) Bembry can talk

Bible. Right now he goes into street talk.

Malcolm laughs. He likes and admires the man. Then caught by a passage

he does not understand:

CLOSE SHOT

As Bembry's hand opens the book to page one.

CLOSE IN ON A PICTURE OF AN AARDVARK WITH ITS DEFINITION

ANGLE - TWO-SHOT

Malcolm's finger runs down to the next definition:

He is reading on his bunk as Barnes walks by. The lights in the cell go

out. Malcolm looks up, annoyed at being interrupted. He shifts his

position to the floor of the cell so that he can catch the dim light

coming from the corridor and goes on with his reading.

CLOSE SHOT - THE BOOK

Malcolm is studying the dictionary, the last of the "a's": the words

azimuth, Azores, Aztec, azure, etc. He reads a word, then holds his

hand over the printed definition to test himself, half-mouthing its

meaning. Malcolm is also copying the dictionary in a school book word

for word.

There are several books on the desk before Malcolm. WE SEE their

titles: W.E.B. DuBois's _The Soul of Black Folks_, Carter G. Woodson's

_Journal of Negro History_, Durant's _Story of Philosophy_, H.G.

Wells's _Outline of History_, Spinoza, Thoreau, etc.

Malcolm is surprised the time has gone so fast. He gathers up his books

with care. He cherishes them, putting them back on the shelf carefully.

The machines are idle; no one is in the room but Malcolm. He starts

to reach inside his jacket when Barnes sticks his head in.

Malcolm takes out a half-filled pack of cigarettes, about to offer one,

then pauses. Malcolm hands him the pack of cigarettes.

He takes the pack happily and goes. Malcolm reaches into his jacket

again, takes out a book. WE SEE its title: Mahatma Gandhi's _My

Struggle_. He sits next to the license press to read.

A baseball game is in progress. A BLACK TEAM is playing a WHITE ONE.

Most of the CONVICTS are watching the game; partisanship at every

pitch. A base hit gets a big reaction.

ANGLE - MALCOLM AND BEMBRY

They are out along the right field wall. They walk throughout the scene.

ANGLE - The ball is hit over the fence for a home run. There is a big

cheer from the black prisoners. Pete, the batter, trots proudly around

the bases.

TWO-SHOT - Malcolm still watching the game.

Malcolm is listening to Bembry's intent statement.

There is a crack of the bat and Malcolm turns to watch another base

hit, by a black convict, stir the crowd.

He sees a black convict, CHUCK, nearby and calls over:

SHOTS OF THE FACES OF THE BLACK BALL PLAYERS AND THE CONVICTS

In the stands, cheering and joyous.

Malcolm is listening to him now.

Malcolm is startled; answers like a boy.

CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM

Wrapped in thought.

ANGLE ON MALCOLM

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Malcolm cannot answer because he truly does not know.

A ball is hit. Malcolm watches its flight but his face is fixed

somewhere between understanding and anger: it is the face of the future

leader.

The rays of the sun come through bars that cut across Malcolm and

Bembry's face.

CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM

Listening.

A prison whistle is heard.

Malcolm and Bembry standing close together. The feeling is of someone

taking communion: with Bembry the minister and Malcolm the communicant.

Their voices are little more than whispers.

Malcolm lifts his head.

Bembry kneels in a praying position. Malcolm stands.

Malcolm laugh-snorts:

Malcolm holds a letter in his hand. He reads it carefully. He has read

it several times before.

The room becomes transformed. It is suddenly suffused with light. And

standing in the cell with Malcolm is ELIJAH MUHAMMAD. He has

materialized, but he can be seen through. He is MALCOLM'S

HALLUCINATION.

The hallucination disappears.

Malcolm goes down on his knees. There are tears in his eyes as he

begins praying:

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He continues to pray.

A poorly furnished, small, but immaculate room. There are two couches,

a table set for eating, and, on the walls, a portrait of Elijah and a

Muslim banner. It is dinner time in a Muslim home.

SIDNEY, aged 20, a perfect specimen of the Fruit of Islam, stands

behind his chair, waiting. Their mother, LORRAINE, a woman of Bembry's

age, is seated, but she, too, awaits Bembry.

SHOT - BEMBRY

At the window Bembry saying the evening prayers.

He comes to the table, nods and sits. Sidney respectfully sits after

him. Food is passed. It is simple fare: natural foods, milk, greens.

The portions are small. They eat in silence, but there is warmth and

love at this table.

Malcolm is reading Bembry's letter as he waits his turn. There is a

WHITE CONVICT in the chair, just being finished by a WHITE BARBER -

SIMMONS. A BLACK BARBER - SLIM sits by. Both are convicts. NOTE:

Malcolm now wears glasses, all that reading in his badly lit cell has

ruined his eyes.

Malcolm starts for the chair. Simmons moves away to light a cigarette

as Slim takes over.

Archie and Cadillac are reading a letter they have received. They look

at each other incredulously.

Shorty is waving a letter he has received to his CELLMATE.

An immaculate room, well furnished. ELIJAH sits in a chair as Bembry

Bembry laughs; Elijah smiles.

TITLE - 6 YEARS LATER

A GROUP OF PRISONERS, mostly white, but with a goodly smattering of

black convicts, are listening to a lecture by CHAPLAIN GILL.

ANGLE. Malcolm seated next to a black convict, raises his hand. It's

the only hand up. The Chaplain searches for another questioner, but

there aren't any.

Pete, sitting next to Malcolm, whispers.

There is laughter from the convicts.

Laughter, especially from the black convicts.

There are reactions from the convicts. Malcolm is sharply challenging a

white man about color.

There is a strong reaction to this.

(Note: Try to get footage from _The Last Temptation of Christ_ [Willem

Dafoe])

Malcolm opens the door, the room is dark and he sees a small, slight

man standing against the window, he doesn't move. This is the same man

who appeared in Malcolm's cell, this is the Honorable Elijah Muhammad.

Malcolm slowly moves toward him; he is completely humbled in his

presence.

CLOSE - ELIJAH

He turns from the window to Malcolm.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He cannot say anything and he drops his head, he is overwhelmed with

heartfelt emotion.

In contrast to the peaceful family scene, the room is a beehive of

activity. Sidney is turning out leaflets on a mimeograph machine;

Lorraine is busy making up a mailing list using 3 x 5 file cards;

Bembry is recruiting on the telephone.

Earl moves toward Malcolm and extends his hands. Malcolm shakes it

warmly.

Sunday service has let out and Malcolm, Earl, and Sidney are "fishing."

They're trying to convert the Black Christians. Malcolm speaks, while

the others hand out leaflets.

Malcolm is talking to a CROWD from a ladder.

ANGLE ON SIDNEY

Amid the listeners, watching their response.

CLOSE SHOT - SEVERAL LISTENERS

They turn from Malcolm, moving a few steps away, and now are the

audience on an adjacent SPEAKER. He is a young firebrand:

PAN CONTINUES to take in ANOTHER SPEAKER, a few feet away. WE SEE the

street corner is Harlem's Hyde Park, with half a dozen SPEAKERS

haranguing the crowd with half a dozen panaceas. That Malcolm is just

one among many:

ANGLE - MALCOLM

A place where black women come to offer themselves for day work.

SEVERAL ARE SEEN. A WHITE WOMEN comes up to one to interview her

(bargain with her). Malcolm's voice is heard before he is seen,

speaking to the women from a ladder.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

FACE OF ONE BLACK WOMAN, beginning to shake her head in accord.

The SAME WOMAN, now at a Muslim meeting. The faces of other listeners

(from the church and from the maids' market) are scattered in Malcolm's

audience.

The headquarters itself shows the progress Malcolm has made. It is

better furnished, larger, and the chairs are filled. Bembry, Sidney,

and Lorraine are in the back of the room, pleased with the growth.

Malcolm stands at a podium.

Reactions: laughter, interest. Ad lib "That's the truth."

Malcolm scanning the faces of his audience as they react. He sees

someone he knows and blurts out boyishly (and winningly):

The crowd turns to Shorty, sitting embarrassedly in the audience.

But Shorty is trying to hide from the spotlight. Malcolm comes down

from the platform and walks to him.

He embraces Shorty as the crowd laughs appreciatively and Brothers

Sidney and Earl have a chuckle themselves.

Shortly and Malcolm sit at a table. Shorty has a cup of coffee in front

of him.

screaming, trying to push that dead weight off her.

staring in a MENTAL WARD, twitching, nose running.

cooking while her husband hides behind the Wall Street Journal.

A knock on the door rouses Archie, by now an old and dying man. All the

vigor is gone, all the life has ebbed out.

Door opens, Malcolm enters.

his old juice, tries to stand up.

Malcolm has to help him lie back.

The contrast is shocking: Malcolm tall and straight; Archie ruined.

The old man is asleep.

Malcolm walks thoughtfully down the street; Archie is still on his

mind, as he passes prostitute after prostitute. Once beautiful women

now selling their bodies. He passes Laura, she has been turned totally

out and she looks the part, there is no way he can recognize her. We do

though.

CLOSE - LAURA

She has just gotten a white John and leads him into an alley.

ANGLE - ALLEY

Laura kneels down to unzip her John's pants.

Malcolm is addressing a HUGE AUDIENCE. His tone is more intense, more

personal than before, because of his recent encounters. In the

audience, sitting with Bembry, is BETTY, a lovely dark-skinned woman.

Her interest in Malcolm (true, also, for most of the other unmarried

sisters) is more than religious.

ANGLE - THE AUDIENCE

Many stand, some walk toward the podium speaking his name: "I'm with

you, Brother Malcolm," "Praise Allah," "Me, Brother Malcolm."

There is applause; some of the audience get to their feet -- Malcolm

acknowledges their approval, trying to quiet them, but caught up in the

CLOSE - BETTY AND BEMBRY

Both are moved by Malcolm's performances.

The Muslim movement has grown enormously. The activity in this

anteroom, leading to other rooms off it, shows that. Betty and Bembry

stand before a Directory announcing activities in the Temple: MONDAY -

Fruit of Islam Meeting; TUESDAY - Unity Night; WEDNESDAY - Student

Enrollment; THURSDAY - Muslim Girls Training; FRIDAY - General

Civilization Class; SATURDAY - Swahili, etc.

A stir of people and activity as Malcolm enters the anteroom. He

excuses himself from a group of MUSLIMS, making his way toward Bembry.

Malcolm nods at her; she nods in return.

Malcolm mutters "very good," but his mind is clearly on a million other

details.

Malcolm is still distracted.

Malcolm is stopped. He looks at Betty.

Malcolm laughs.

Malcolm's laughter is heard, in response.

Malcolm sits next to the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. The student and the

teacher.

Betty says nothing, she merely pushes the salad plate a little toward

him. The food has thus far gone untouched. Malcolm continues.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

CLOSE - ELIJAH

CLOSE - BETTY

Malcolm chuckles a bit.

Now he bursts out laughing.

CLOSE - BROTHERS SIDNEY AND EARL

They are alarmed at Brother Minister's behavior.

TWO-SHOT - BETTY AND MALCOLM

He takes a forkful of the salad.

Before a comparative evolutionary display showing the skeletons of

becoming red dress.

CLOSE ON THE SKELETONS

ANGLE. As they saunter out, passing the huge skeletons of prehistoric

animals now.

He plunks down the order before Betty and Malcolm. Malcolm takes a

long, long satisfying pull on his straw. Then he sighs:

She laughs. He blushes.

She takes a bite of her sundae.

Malcolm takes a good look at the lovely woman in front of him, then a

long sip from his ice cream soda.

Betty sees him first.

ANGLE. As Sidney runs to them at the table:

Malcolm listening as SEVERAL WITNESSES simultaneously describe the

attack. A small angry CROWD has gathered. The most animated one is

BENJAMIN, a very dark young black teenager, we will soon meet him

later.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Malcolm's face goes taut. He nods sharply at Sidney, as Benjamin

watches them both.

Malcolm facing a DESK SERGEANT, TWO UNIFORMED COPS and a PLAINCLOTHESMAN

off to one side.

The police respond with a squeeze play intended to intimidate Malcolm:

He feels the power play and stiffens in resistance.

Malcolm stands his ground coolly.

The cops eye each other. Plainclothes walks to the window.

Across from the station is a phalanx of some FIFTY MEN of the Fruit

of Islam. All are dressed in dark suits with white shirts. They stand

in military formation: eyes forward, every face burning. People from

the neighborhood have formed a crowd behind and around them. WE MAKE

OUT Benjamin among the crowd.

TWO-SHOT - FAVOR MALCOLM

As the cops examine the police blotter.

Cops eye each other. Plainclothes nods slightly, he has to give in,

Malcolm is not playing.

The back of Malcolm's head, as he examines Brother Johnson. As he comes

up OUT OF FRAME, WE SEE that Johnson has been badly beaten.

Sergeant puts a restraining hand on Plainclothes.

As Johnson's body, on a stretcher, is hurried into an ambulance. The

crowd has grown in proportions. There are ad libs: "Goddam pigs," "Damn

police brutality," "Least they got him out of the meat house."

Malcolm with the Sergeant and a LIEUTENANT, as the ambulance pulls away.

Malcolm starts walking down the center of the street, after the

ambulance.

The Fruit of Islam fall in behind him, marching slowly. It takes on the

start of a march as the neighborhood people fall in behind them. People

(especially kids) race with them on the street and on the sidewalk.

ANGLE - BENJAMIN

Benjamin fights his way through the crowd trying to walk beside Malcolm,

the Brothers in the Fruit stop him and Benjamin drops back.

redirect traffic, holding up crosstown cars as the group walks solemnly

by. The people walking behind have swelled it to a huge demonstration.

Their faces reflect their anger and their satisfaction that, for once,

something is being done about what has happened.

LONG SHOT SHOWS the Muslim men in perfect order, calm with their arms

folded across their chests, waiting. Their eyes are on Malcolm as he

walks toward the hospital entrance.

SHOTS

--of the growing crowd.

--of the nervous cops, including some big brass.

--of kids watching from a rooftop.

--of Benjamin trying to emulate the Fruit of Islam.

Malcolm is standing in front of the Fruit of Islam men, as HIGHRANKING

POLICE OFFICER GREEN comes over.

SHOT

The unruly crowd behind the Fruit of Islam. They are restive, milling,

ugly.

MEDIUM SHOT - MALCOLM, FRUIT OF ISLAM AND CROWD

It's clear the decision is in one man's hands, Malcolm's.

CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM

He makes a gesture with his hand, the Fruit of Islam disperse.

ANGLE. People moving away, going home. Only one person remains from the

Fruit of Islam and the crowd, it's Benjamin.

CLOSE - CAPTAIN GREEN

Everyone is in a somber mood over the evening's events.

ANGLE - TABLE

Malcolm sits with Brothers Earl and Sidney.

ANGLE - ENTRANCE

Benjamin comes into the cafeteria and everyone looks at him. He sees

Malcolm sitting and moves toward his table.

ANGLE - TABLE

Brothers Sidney and Earl get up to intercept him but Malcolm waves him

through. Benjamin stands.

Malcolm pours some cream into his cup of black coffee, then also some

white sugar.

Benjamin laughs.

ANGLE - SIDNEY AND EARL

They exchange dubious looks.

Benjamin hesitates.

Benjamin is crushed and he starts to get up.

CLOSE - NEWSPAPER HEADLINE (DAILY NEWS)

MALCOLM X WINS $70,000 JUDGMENT FOR BEATEN NEGRO

An AIDE of Elijah puts down the newspaper and shakes Malcolm's hand.

Elijah is sweeping the floor with a plain hand broom. Malcolm enters

the room, is surprised and waits at the door. The two are alone

together.

The sweeping done, they stand together near a table at a window.

ANGLE - AIDES and OTHERS come into the room now. They are listening.

Elijah picks up a glass and sets it before Malcolm.

He is holding a clean glass, with clear water in it.

Elijah holds up the clear glass.

Betty is administering to a PATIENT, as a phone is heard ringing. It's

answered. ANOTHER NURSE motions Betty to the phone. She finishes with

her patient and goes quickly.

Betty and Malcolm sit on the floor in the dimlit room, very close.

He embraces her. Then Betty laughs.

Full embrace.

Malcolm has just cut the cake and handed a slice to Betty. Amid

laughter and great warmth, Sidney unfurls the front page of the

_Messenger_, the Muslim newspaper. Headline reads: "MALCOLM X WEDS

BETTY SAUNDERS." Betty kisses her husband and Bembry, Lorraine, Earl,

Sidney, Peter and VARIOUS BROTHERS AND SISTERS applaud.

We notice the subtle change in the apartment: it is more comfortable;

there is even evidence of some small luxury: a TV set, a new settee,

etc.

Malcolm is speaking to a GOOD SIZED AUDIENCE:

CROWD REACTIONS

CLOSE - BENJAMIN

He is neatly dressed in white shirt, jacket and tie, a fine young

Muslim.

The Honorable Elijah Muhammad sits on the stage to the right of Malcolm.

This is a larger audience.

CROWD - REACTIONS

CLOSE - MALCOLM

CLOSE - ELIJAH

CLOSE - MALCOLM

A modest room. She is rocking a cradle with her foot as she writes:

Malcolm sits in front of a television screen and watches the evening

news. The following speech will be INTERCUT with

A SERIES OF OLD NEWSREEL FOOTAGE - BLACK & WHITE

(newsclips from Birmingham, Selma, Mississippi, and elsewhere):

CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM'S FACE

With a studio mike around his neck, he's on a panel show.

ANGLE - MODERATOR

ANGLE - PANEL

Opposing Malcolm is DR. PAYSON, a NAACP-type NEGRO.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

ANGLE - MODERATOR

CLOSE - DR. PAYSON

CLOSE: - DR. PAYSON

CLOSE - MALCOLM

ANGLE - PANEL

Malcolm gestures to the Negro panelist.  The BLACK MEMBERS of the TV

audience are lapping it up. Betty and Earl also sit in the TV studio

audience.

ANGLE - MALCOLM

There is some blanching and guffawing from the audience. The moderator

is totally embarrassed, Betty roars.

He points a sharp finger at the Negro Panelist.

There is applause from the blacks in the audience. Moderator tries to

regain control.

CLOSE - THE HONORABLE ELIJAH MUHAMMAD

He is enjoying this display by his prize student, the CAMERA PANS to a

CLOSE SHOT of BEMBRY and the same cannot be said.

Bembry turns off the TV set and he commences to plant the seeds of

"betrayal."

CLOSE - BEMBRY

CLOSE - ELIJAH

CLOSER - BEMBRY

EXT. STREET - HARLEM - DAY

Malcolm is walking the streets of Harlem like he is campaigning for

office. He has Brothers Sidney, Earl, and Benjamin at his side, a CROWD

follows him. Malcolm sees a WINO.

The wino looks at Malcolm and continues to drink his wine.

armed with microphones. He walks; they follow.

to the meetings, etc.

Malcolm sits with Benjamin.

CLOSE - BENJAMIN

He takes the letter from Malcolm and looks at it.

--Benjamin goes off in a corner and very quickly copies the letter,

he's so anxious.

--Benjamin hands Malcolm his letter, Malcolm shakes his head and hands

it back, it's not exact.

Malcolm is talking to a group of PEOPLE who are having a rent strike.

Malcolm hands him back his letter again. The fast is getting to

Benjamin.

Benjamin weakly walks toward Malcolm and gives him his letter, which he

takes. The fast is wearing him out.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Malcolm is inspecting it.

CLOSE - BENJAMIN

His face is filled with apprehension.

ANGLE - MALCOLM AND BENJAMIN

ANGLE - TABLE

Benjamin 2X sits with Malcolm and Brothers Earl and Sidney.

Everyone laughs.

A CROWD OF STUDENTS outside the Law School. The setting is the same as

the last time we saw Malcolm and Shorty here, except now the students

part for him. Malcolm walks slowly toward the entrance, looking up at

the Latin inscription of the building when he is stopped by a WHITE

COED.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He stares at her.

CLOSE - COED

She is absolutely crushed and runs away in tears.

Speaking to a packed STUDENT AUDIENCE.

ANGLE - The audience carefully listening.

SHOT OF REPORTERS IN AUDIENCE

Beginning to scribble furiously.

Loud laughter from the audience. But this response is overwhelmed by

the response of ANOTHER, LARGER AUDIENCE.

Malcolm is talking before an all-black audience. It is the largest

rally yet; the hall is packed to the rafters.

VARIOUS SHOTS OF THE RALLY

HAWKERS selling _The Messenger_, faces of Fruit of Islam near the

podium; Lorraine, Sidney, Earl, Benjamin, and Bembry. For the first

time a new note is seen in Bembry's face: reserve bordering on

resentment. When others around him cheer Malcolm, Bembry is cool.

Sidney notices this from his father, but makes no comment.

ANGLE - CROWD

CLOSE - MALCOLM

ANGLE - MALCOLM

ANGLE - CROWD

A wave of cheers as people explode.

The rally is over. A small room packed with PEOPLE congratulating

Malcolm, trying to touch him. He is the hero of the hour. Sidney, Earl,

and Benjamin with him, enjoying the accolades and trying to help

Malcolm make his way out. Bembry stands apart, removed and silent.

ANGLE. A WELL-KNOWN PERSONALITY (DICK GREGORY) is at the door. He and

Malcolm know each other well. Malcolm extends a palm, but Gregory

doesn't slap it.

Betty, pregnant with child, is in a chair -- a newspaper in her lap.

Malcolm is in the other room, putting his last daughter to sleep. We

hear him...

ANGLE - BEDROOM

As he enters, a smile on his face, but the concern of the evening

clearly imprinted. He sits down heavily. Betty watches him carefully.

He smiles. She doesn't.

She smiles.

A pause.

She picks up the newspaper and reads from it:

Betty gets up, goes to him gently.

She touches him very gently.

Malcolm knocks on the door of Evelyn Williams, one of the two

secretaries/wives. She opens the door and has child in her arms.

ANGLE - APARTMENT

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He cannot believe what he is hearing, but he must. The truth is before

his eyes.

ANGLE - MALCOLM

Malcolm is sitting holding both of the children. Sister Lucille who is

pregnant with 3rd child waddles across the room to sit down on the sofa

with him. She picks up one of the kids from him.

ANGLE - SISTER LUCILLE

She touches her pregnant stomach.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

CLOSE SHOT - MALCOLM

He has said everything on his mind and waits for Bembry's answer.

PAN TO BEMBRY

Malcolm is listening closely. Bembry puts an arm around him, man-to-man.

Malcolm has to control his rage.

We hear rifle shots.

DRUM CADENCE (IT WILL BE THROUGHOUT ENTIRE SCENE)

Malcolm, a last-minute replacement for the ailing Honorable Elijah

Muhammad, speaks before a HUGE CROWD.

SHOT - AMERICAN FLAGS AT HALF-MAST

CLOSE - MALCOLM

On his desk is the black headlines: MALCOLM X CALLS ASSASSINATION

"CHICKENS COMING HOME TO ROOST." Elijah's health is getting worse, his

coughing is frequent.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He knows what is coming.

CLOSE - ELIJAH

CLOSER - MALCOLM

He looks at Elijah, his leader, his friend, his father and speaks with

total sincerity.

ANGLE - ROOM

Malcolm turns around and leaves the room.

ANGLE - DOOR

As the door is being closed, WE SEE Bembry kneeling before Elijah and

kissing his hand. The door closes, the SCREEN IS BLACK.

FADE IN:

Sidney is playing on the floor with the kids. Betty scoops them up.

The phone rings. Malcolm answers it. From his expression we know it is

a threat call. He hangs up. Betty leaves with the kids.

Sidney reluctantly leaves, walks out the door, past Betty. She looks at

him, then Malcolm.

Malcolm -- backed by Brothers Earl and Benjamin 2X -- faces a roomful

of SUPPORTERS and REPORTERS.

A host of questions fired all at once: How many of Elijah's followers

will join you? etc, etc, etc.

Malcolm calms them:

Malcolm, at the window, as his plane takes off. He is watching Betty

and the children on the Visitors' Ramp. He sees her become a tiny

figure, waving a vivid bandana.

The plane is out of sight. Betty gathers up her children. As they leave

she is subtly surrounded by the protecting BAND OF SUPPORTERS, led by

Earl and Benjamin 2X.

MALCOLM GREETED AS HE DESCENDS FROM THE PLANE IN EGYPT

He watches as Malcolm walks between the two pyramids.

On a camel as he rides toward the Sphinx.

Betty is reading Malcolm's letter to a LARGE AUDIENCE.

--Malcolm, wearing the garb of a pilgrim, walks with a VAST THRONG OF

OTHERS, similarly clad, around the Great Temple. He wears two white

towels, one over his loins, the other over his neck and shoulder,

leaving the right arm and shoulder bare. He wears simple sandals. The

other pilgrims are of various colors: from white, to yellow, to darkest

black.

chicken and shaking it.

in the middle of the Great Mosque. He falls to his knees. WE SEE what

he describes:

Elijah and a GROUP OF BLACK MUSLIM LEADERS. Bembry among them, it looks

like he is the number two man now that Malcolm has been jettisoned. The

Messenger lies in bed, he is having a coughing fit, this is the worst

condition he's been in. A DOCTOR orders everyone out the room.

Betty is with Brothers Earl, Benjamin 2X, and the children. There are

now four including another BABY - GAMILAH

A TIGHT TWO-SHOT of Malcolm and Betty in an embrace. She breaks from

him and whispers: "Go ahead. I can wait now."

A large PRESS CONFERENCE: mikes of every network, every newspaper and

wire service present. Malcolm sports a beard.

The AUDIENCE applauds.

ANGLE - MUSLIM MALE

Everyone turns around to the back to see what the commotion is about.

The man who yelled out leaves quickly, we will see him later on, very

soon.

Malcolm looks out the living room window, he has a rifle in hand.

(NOTE: This is the same pose as the famous photograph of him.) He

doesn't see anyone and closes the curtain. The phone rings.

CLOSE - PHONE

Malcolm picks up the receiver.

ANGLE - BEDROOM

Betty has picked up also and she's listening.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

ANGLE - BEDROOM

Malcolm enters the room and gets into the bed with Betty, he puts his

ear down on his wife's pregnant stomach.

She kisses him.

Malcolm pulls Betty closer to him.

It is a cold winter night. A Molotov cocktail is lit and hurled through

the front picture glass window.

One of the children screams.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Malcolm grabs his pistol and quickly throws a coat over Betty. She is

half-asleep, frightened, trembling and disoriented.

Betty goes. Malcolm runs back for the children.

ANGLE. He reassuringly leads the four children, in their pajamas,

through the smoke-filled house.

WE CUT BACK TO Earl Little getting his family out of the burning house

in Lansing, Michigan. It should be the same exact scene we saw before

earlier in the film.

CUT BACK TO PRESENT

Neighbors' lights have gone on. There are shouts: "What is it?" "Fire!"

A hose is playing on the fire. Police cars have arrived. There are TWO

REPORTERS with the COPS. Malcolm faces them furiously.

Bembry is being interviewed by a reporter.

A car comes roaring down the street with rifles sticking out the

windows, and pulls right up in front of Malcolm's house.

ANGLE - HOUSE

Brothers Earl and Benjamin 2X run out of the car up to Malcolm.

Brothers Earl and Benjamin take off their coats and put it over Malcolm

and lead him to a police car.

FIVE BLACK MEN sit around a table. They do not speak. They are Thomas

Hayer, Ben Thomas, Leon Davis, William X and Wilbur Kinley. All are

Muslims, all are the ASSASSINS.

CLOSE - 12-GAUGE SAWED-OFF SHOTGUN ON TABLE

CLOSE - 9MM GERMAN LUGER ON TABLE

CLOSE - .45 AUTOMATIC

ANGLE - THOMAS HAYER

He puts a roll of exposed 35mm film into a sock.

ANGLE - TABLE

ANGLE - LOBBY

CLOSE - MALCOLM

He looks at her. He thinks. He speaks.

CLOSE - COED

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Malcolm lies on his bed, and for the first time WE SEE the strain in

his face, it has begun to take its toll, he's a haunted man. A doomed

man.

ANGLE - MALCOLM

Malcolm dials the phone.

INTERCUT between Malcolm and Brother Earl.

There is silence on the other end.

CLOSE - BROTHER EARL

The five assassins are casing ballroom. They check the different

entrances, the exits, the bathrooms, staircases while the jam packed

crowd continues to dance the night away.

Betty is putting her four daughters to sleep when the phone rings. She

picks it up.

CLICK.

Betty hangs up the phone and it rings again.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

INTERCUT between between Malcolm and Betty.

A blue 1968 Cadillac passes a sign that says Patterson, New Jersey.

ANGLE - CAR

The assassins are on their way to the Audubon Ballroom, Wilbur Kinley

is behind the wheel, no one is talking.

Betty is driving to the Audubon Ballroom, her four daughters are in the

backseat making a racket.

Malcolm drives to the Audubon Ballroom.

Brothers Earl and Benjamin 2X along with some others are putting the

folding chairs in place for the coming meeting. The audience has not

started to come in yet.

The assassins are driving over the George Washington Bridge.

ANGLE - CAR

CLOSE - BETTY

Betty is trying to quiet down her daughters as she drives.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Malcolm is in deep thought as he drives.

Betty and her four kids walk into the ballroom and move down the center

aisle. One of the girls drops her black doll and a young man picks it

up. The young man is Thomas Hayer, he gives it back to her.

ANGLE. The rest of the assassins come in and go to their positions

along with the rest of the crowd, the place is starting to fill up.

Malcolm drives past the Audubon Ballroom, people are going in but no

cops are present.

ANGLE - CAR

Malcolm drives by.

ANGLE - STREET

Malcolm parks his car, it's four blocks away. He turns off the ignition

and sits there.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

It's as if he's frozen in his car.

ANGLE - STREET

Malcolm finally gets out of the car, locks the door and walks a couple

of steps, then stops.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Malcolm has stopped in his tracks, like some unseen force has overcome

him which prevents him from moving. Malcolm is paralyzed.

CLOSER - MALCOLM'S FACE

His eyes are closed, and the street noise begins to build to a

deafening _roar_. Then all of a sudden it stops.

ANGLE - OLD WOMAN

Malcolm opens his eyes, she has brought him out of it. He looks at her

but doesn't answer.

Malcolm looks at this old woman, who slightly resembles his own mother.

She walks away, carrying her two shopping bags full of groceries.

secretary SISTER ROBIN.

He is pissed.

Malcolm starts pacing the room, nobody has ever seen him like this

before.

Benjamin 2X gets up to leave.

They both exit.

CLOSE - MALCOLM AND EARL

A lone COP in uniform stands in the shadows with a walkie-talkie.

Malcolm is about to go on stage when he sees Sister Robin.

The place is filled. Betty and the girls sit in a boxed-off section

near the platform. Malcolm's bodyguards stand on and around the stand.

Benjamin 2X is finishing up his speech when Malcolm walks onto the

stage and sits down.

CLOSE - BETTY AND THE KIDS

CLOSE - THOMAS HAYER

CLOSE - WILBUR KINLEY

CLOSE - LEON DAVIS

CLOSE - BEN THOMAS

CLOSE - WILLIAM X

CLOSE - MALCOLM X

CLOSE - BENJAMIN 2X

ANGLE - STAGE

A roar greets Malcolm's intro. He shakes hands with Benjamin 2X, then

steps toward the podium.

He starts to rearrange his 3 x 5 index cards in his hands.

SWIFT JERKY PAN OF CAMERA

There is a commotion in the rear of the audience.

The bodyguards move toward the rear.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

ANGLE - WILLIAM X

He stands up from the fourth row with 12-gauge sawed-off shotgun

blasting.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

Throws up his hands, grabs his chest and is knocked backward.

SHOTS - PURE PANDEMONIUM

People hit the floor, knock over chairs, stampede for the exits.

ANGLE - BACK OF AUDITORIUM

Wilbur Kinley ignites a smoke bomb.

ANGLE - FIRST RUN

Thomas Hayer and Leon Davis stand up, run toward the stage, and empty

their .45's and Luger into the fallen body of Malcolm.

ANGLE - BETTY

She is on the floor covering her children.

ANGLE - AISLE

Hayer and Davis charge up the aisle toward the rear exit, shooting at

the crowd.

ANGLE - BODYGUARD

He stands in Hayer's way, Hayer fires, he turns, the bullet misses and

the bodyguard gets off a shot which hits Hayer in the leg.

ANGLE - HAYER

He stumbles momentarily, then limps on.

ANGLE - STAIRCASE

Hayer is running down the staircase when he is tripped, and goes flying

through the air to the bottom of the landing. The crowd starts to beat

the shit out of him, kicking him in the head, etc., they're about to

tear him apart from limb to limb when a PATROLMAN enters with gun drawn.

He shoots gun into air and the crowd backs off and he takes custody of

Hayer.

ANGLE - STAGE

One of Malcolm's bodyguards, BROTHER GENE, is over him, giving him

mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. Brother Gene stops, Betty moves in and

hugs her dying husband.

ANGLE - ENTRANCE

THIRTY COPS walk in like it's a spring Sunday stroll in Central Park.

CLOSE - MALCOLM

His eyes are glazed over.

SHOT - HOSPITAL SPOKESPERSON

--AND IN HARLEM.

OSSIE DAVIS speaking behind the above:

waiting to see Malcolm's body, where it lies before burial.

Ordinary PEOPLE in ordinary pursuits of life, BLACK PEOPLE still

struggling to stay afloat in a racist WHITE AMERICA that does not have

their best interests at hand -- 8 years of Reagan and now at least 4

years of Bush.

JACKETS, JEWELRY, ETC.

A picture collage of Malcolm X. It reads P.S. 153 -- Harlem honors

Malcolm on his birthdate May 19, 1935.

ANGLE - CLASSROOM

It's a fourth-grade class.

CLOSE - STUDENT

CLOSE - STUDENT

CLOSE - STUDENT

CLOSE - STUDENT

CLOSE - STUDENT

CLOSE - STUDENT

CLOSE - STUDENT

CLOSE - STUDENT

CAMERA PANS slowly to head of class where the teacher stands, it's

NELSON MANDELA.

CLOSE - MANDELA

var windowopts = "location=no,scrollbars=no,menubars=no,toolbars=no,resizable=yes,left= 50,top=50,width=490,height=130";

popup21978 = open('/prohost/banner.html',"MenuPopup",windowopts);

popup21978.focus();

