Ingrid shrugs.   She says, already bored with the topic:

Pauline and Margot carry bags up the stairs. Margot now

wears a knit red bracelet. They're tentative with one

another.

They enter the guest room. The windows are wide open, the

curtains blowing, but the room is very neatly made up.

Pauline waits for an explanation.

Malcolm strums his guitar and smokes. Pauline sits at his

feet with Ingrid and Claude. The kids look at a record

sleeve. Margot is curled up on the sofa writing in a little

brown notebook. She wears oval tortoise-shell glasses.

Ingrid pulls an album toward her. Her eyes widen at the

scary image on the cover. She quickly turns it over and

hands it to her mother.

Margot breaks into laughter. Pauline spits her seltzer back

into the glass. They both laugh hysterically. Tears stream

down Margot's face. Claude watches.

Malcolm, Pauline, Margot, Claude and Ingrid sit with a

homosexual couple, Alan, 40's, and Toby, 30's, and their son,

Bruce, 8, at an old wooden table eating crab, salad and soup.

Part of Alan's face is paralyzed.

Malcolm lights up a cigarette.   He offers one to Claude who

shakes his head, No.

Silence.

Pauline unloads the plates onto the kitchen counter.   She

hesitates and exhales a deep, anxious breath.

Margot paces while talking on a cell phone in the herb

garden. She drinks a white wine with ice cubes and smokes a

joint. The bottle lies at her feet, three-quarters empty.

Silence on the other end.

Claude sleeps in bed.    Margot gently touches his face.   She

whispers:

Water runs from the bathroom. Malcolm cradles a glass of

whiskey and stands nude in front of a full length mirror.

He turns around and looks at his ass. Pauline walks out of

the bathroom. She wears mens pajamas, the top open.

He waits for a reaction and gets none.

Margot lies on her front, her hand underneath her. She tries

to masturbate. The bed creaks. Finally, she flips over and

gives up. She wears a rubber night-guard in her mouth.

A croquet game in progress. Pauline and Malcolm play Margot

and Claude. Ingrid lies in the grass singing to herself.

The dog next to her. Malcolm concentrates -- he carefully

lines up his shot. Finally, he swings --

The ball misses the wicket.    He shakes with frustration.

Claude looks through a slit in the wooden fence and into the

neighbor's yard: A naked man, 40's, crouches. Arms extend

from below and pull him downward. His ass pokes up over the

weeds.

Claude shakes out of his reverie. He walks briskly up to his

ball and smacks it. It bullets forward and lands just short

of Pauline's ball.

Pauline knocks her ball into Claude's. She holds her ball

down with her foot and prepares to swing.

He blushes and laughs.    Pauline laughs.   Margot shakes her

head.

Margot places her mallet down and starts toward the house.

Pauline cackles loudly. Margot turns around and stares at

her. Malcolm calls from the stairs:

The five eat a salad nicoise lunch.

Pauline looks mildly horrified.   She suddenly turns to

Claude.

She points at the tall oak that stretches over the fence into

the neighbor's property.

Margot strides toward the tree.   The group follows behind.

She grabs hold of a branch and lifts herself.

Claude grins, impressed.

With brisk dexterity, Margot scales the tree.

Claude, Pauline, Malcolm and Ingrid watch with glee from

below.

Margot reaches a perch near the top and looks down at the

gang. They wave. She waves back.

The sun is hot. She sweats, flushed. She takes a deep

breath and relaxes against the bark. Trees for miles. The

neighbors' house is faded and grey. In the far distance,

toxic white smoke comes out into the sky.

An earwig walks across her arm. She flicks it off, slips for

a moment and catches herself. Her breathing grows more

rapid.

A bug buzzes around her head.   She swats at it.

Her family has stopped watching. Claude and Malcolm throw a

baseball. Pauline's gone back inside. Ingrid clears the

table.

She wipes her face, her shirt is almost entirely soaked.    The

buzzing continues.

Close on Margot's ear. A small black gnat lands on the lip

of the lobe. It hesitates and darts inside the hole.

Margot gasps.   She jams her pinky in her ear.

Pauline comes back out with an ice tea.

A young volunteer fireman climbs a long ladder up the side of

the tree and toward Margot. He reaches out his hand to her.

She slowly lowers herself.

Pauline is laughing, recounting the story. Claude and Ingrid

laugh too. Margot shakes her head, embarrassed and furious.

Margot turns her head to the side and pats on the top of it.

Silence.   Margot puts her pinky back in her ear.   She frowns.

Pauline and Margot hike along a dirt trail. Claude and

Ingrid idle behind, carrying walking sticks.

Margot backs up quickly.    The woman stops about ten feet

away.

The woman turns back around. She lifts the girl into her

arms and they trudge over the incline and out of sight.

The four of them emerge into a clearing.     Nobody speaks.    A

child's pink sneaker lies in the path.

Pauline walks over to it.    She crouches.

Margot bursts into tears.    Pauline hesitates then holds her.

Malcolm looks at Pauline. He's in the midst of writing a

letter on a legal pad. Pauline is worked up.

Ingrid sits at the roots of the tree, squeezing honey out of

a honey bear onto her hand -- she watches the ants come.

Claude sits on a low branch and looks over the fence:

The front door of the Vogler's opens and a boy, 14, pees from

the entrance-way into the plants in the yard.

The boy finishes and violently hurls a toy car at the fence.

The toy lands a few feet short.   He goes inside and closes

the door.

Claude watches: Malcolm scurries around the side of the

Vogler house holding a dead mole by its tail. He stumbles,

recovers and flings the animal at the front door.   He races

back toward his property.

Margot and Malcolm have cocktails. Pauline drinks a bottled

water. Ingrid has cray pas, markers and paper and draws at a

table. She draws a mole.

Claude and Ingrid stare at it.    Malcolm balls it up.

The car pulls into a driveway.    A modern house.   Dick and

Maisy come out to greet them.

Margot, the kids and Pauline get out. We stay in the car

with Malcolm. Pauline comes to his window.

Maisy sits on the hood of the car and Ingrid introduces her

to Claude. Dick approaches Margot -- she turns back to

Pauline.

Malcolm's gaze goes to Maisy's breasts.    Margot watches him

watch her.

Pauline and Margot float beneath Claude who stands above

them.

Margot knocks on the side of her head with her hand.

Pauline flings herself in and is off. Margot hesitates then

follows. Maisy and Dick watch from the chairs. Ingrid

floats on a raft and cheers. Claude runs along the pool-

side.

Pauline hits the far wall with her palm and flips around.

Margot stops short and follows her sister. They're neck and

neck. Their arms cut in and out of the water.

The sounds of wind and blurry voices now clearer.

Pauline brings Claude to the surface and pushes him to the

ladder. She helps him climb out. Ingrid and Maisy are

grinning. Their expressions slowly shift as they see

Claude's face.

Claude is sobbing.

Margot immediately wrenches Claude from Pauline's grasp.    She

looks shocked and angry.

She leads her son behind the bushes out of everyone's sight.

She gently lets him down. His sneakers squeak and slosh.

Claude, soaking wet and ashamed, looks at his mother. She

breaks into laughter. Claude wipes the water and tears from

his eyes.

Margot, reclining on the couch, drinks a white wine with ice

cubes. Pauline passes the doorway and stops. She holds tear-

sheets of flowers and wedding decorations from various

magazines.

Margot walks the path alone. She hugs herself as a light

breeze kicks up. Her footsteps echo in the trees.

The little pink sneaker still lies in the dirt.

She crouches down and takes it.

CLOSE: A note is being written.

"...and if you are acting with any sort of abuse toward your

child I will call the police."

The word "any" is then underlined twice.   The page is torn

from her little brown book.

Margot's fist is raised about to knock on the front door.

She stops herself. She puts the note on the Welcome mat and

holds it in place with the child's shoe. She wanders around

to the back of the house. She looks into a lighted window:

It's a white tiled bathroom.

A wet brown animal body covered in clear plastic is balanced

on the sink. Mr. Vogler tears into the plastic. The carcass

is butterflied open exposing the innards and ribs.

Mrs. Vogler runs the tub. She pours salt from a box in the

water. The man slides his hand in her waist-band. She rubs

against him.

Margot chews her cuticle.

The man saws the legs. His arm jerks back and forth,

straining to cut through the bone. Sweat pours down his

temples.

Margot raises her hand to her face and presses against the

window. She peers through her fingers. The blade pierces

the bone with a violent release and the hoof falls to the

floor.

Margot moves to another window.   The pig's face now looks at

her.

Blood drips and leaks into the crevices of the tile. The

woman brandishes a syringe filled with an orange liquid.

Suddenly a face appears in the glass. Margot leaps back.

It's a thin boy. He says something. The family turns to the

window. The father flicks off the bathroom light.

From inside Margot illuminates like an apparition.

Margot scampers into the trees.   She pushes through branches,

her shirt tears. She runs.

Claude sits on the bed. The record sleeve from Blondie's

"Parallel Lines" rests in his lap. He reads the lyrics to

the song, "Sunday Girl." He depresses the red record button

on an old portable tape recorder. He sings a cappella and

full voice, passionately, as sweetly as he can.

Maisy appears in the doorway and watches.   Claude turns mid-

lyric. He jumps, startled.

Fumbling, Claude shuts off the tape recorder.

She drifts into the room and hovers closely above Claude who

remains on the bed.

Margot passes by in the hallway, disheveled from her escape.

She watches: Maisy takes the lyric sleeve from Claude's

hands. Her T-shirt hangs above her waist showing her smooth

stomach.

Claude blushes.

Margot puts on mascara and watches Claude, who stands behind

her, in the mirror.

Claude looks into the toilet. A square of toilet paper with

a red lip outline floats on top of the water.

Claude's POV through the window: Dick and Margot in the back

seat of the Volvo. Malcolm and Pauline the front. The

ignition turns.

Claude leaves the window. We hear the car rumble away.

Claude and Ingrid sit on the couch, hamburgers in front of

them. Maisy is cross-legged on Wizard's dog bed and chews a

stalk of celery.

There's a scraping sound on the window.   The kids turn

quickly:

The three kids lie in the grass and watch through the slats

in the fence: The Vogler family eats at an outdoor table. A

pig turns on a spit over a smoky barbecue. Mrs. Vogler says

something and the kids and Mr. Vogler laugh.

Maisy climbs over Claude to see better. He feels her breasts

press against his back. Suddenly he swats crazily at his

ear. Ingrid is poking him with a blade of grass.

Malcolm drives quickly with Pauline next to him. He's

smoking with the window open, Dick and Margot in the

backseat.

Malcolm screeches the vehicle over to the shoulder.   They

jolt to a stop.

Pauline opens the door and staggers toward the brush. She

leans against a tree and looks like she might vomit. Malcolm

watches in the rearview mirror.

Malcolm sighs heavily and gets out of the car. Margot and

Dick watch out the back window. Pauline sees Malcolm coming

and bolts into the woods. Malcolm charges after her.

Dick leans over to Margot's neck.    He licks her.

Claude lies in bed with Ingrid. He chews off a piece of his

pinky fingernail. He hesitates and places it on an end-

table.

Claude walks -- he passes an open door: Malcolm is shaving

his moustache -- the electric razor whirring.

Claude enters.   It's empty. Her brown notebook rests on the

bedside table.   He hesitates then opens it:

It's packed with writing -- a nearly indecipherable cursive

in black ink. The name Claude can be made out on the page.

Claude takes the book and climbs up into bed. He nestles

against the pillow and squints to read the writing.

Claude startles.   Margot stands in the doorway with a glass

of water.

Claude slides down to the floor.    He hesitates.

Claude takes a long pillow and places it like a barrier in

the bed. We stay on him as he waits. Finally Margot climbs

into the covers in a nightgown.

Malcolm, his moustache gone, a cigarette dangling from his

mouth, hammers in a stake at the base of a collapsed, white

tent. A workman holds a pole steadily.

Pauline sets up chairs around a series of tables. Ingrid

idles a few feet away. They're in the midst of talking:

Pauline touches Ingrid's hair gently.

She runs toward the house.   Pauline marches toward Malcolm.

Ingrid is watching from across the field.

Ingrid hurries through the sparkly, dewy grass.   Pauline hugs

her and they spin.

Margot watches from the upstairs window. The mother and

daughter walk arm in arm down what will be the aisle.

Finally, Margot turns away -- she's in Pauline and Malcolm's

room.

She opens drawers: Underwear, socks, bras. Topless photos

of Pauline posing in the bedroom. A photograph of Margot and

Pauline in their teens on Halloween dressed as Pat Benatar

and Patty Smyth respectively.

Margot grins.

Another photo of Margot, Pauline and an obese woman -- Becky -

- in their 20's.

Margot's expression saddens. She opens another drawer.

Polaroids of Pauline and Malcolm in different sexual poses.

She flips through these and drops them on the bureau.

Amidst the underwear and socks she finds pill containers.

She squints to read the labels. She opens one and shakes out

a few blue pills into her palm. She swallows one and puts

the rest in her pocket.

More drawers open: Self-help books, incense, pamphlets on

Buddhism. A stack of pornographic DVD's.

Margot starts and shoves the drawer shut.

Claude hacks his way through the tall weeds.

We move past him, obscured by grass, Pauline and Ingrid yell:

Margot enters and opens the refrigerator. She gets out a

white wine bottle. She turns around and jumps, startled.

Malcolm sits at the table, eating saltines out of the box, a

pad and paper in front of him.

Margot pours herself a glass of wine. She looks to Malcolm

to see if he wants some. He shakes his head. She takes a

long drink. Silence.

Malcolm exhales in frustration.

Pauline and Malcolm open the gate to the Vogler's property.

They approach the Vogler's sun-worn and paint chipped house.

Mr. Vogler, wearing a fleece vest and carrying a hatchet over

his shoulders, tramples out of the brush.

Vogler stops.   His face is jagged and worn.

The man watches them strangely with icy blue eyes.

Pauline walks back to the house, buttoning her dress. She

looks up suddenly and stops: A man watches her from the lawn.

He holds a bouquet of flowers. Pauline runs to him.

They embrace.    Her hand cups the back of his neck.

Claude runs from the house.

Pauline, Malcolm, Margot, Jim, Claude and Ingrid eat fish

stew and peasant bread. Jim's flowers sit in a vase. He

wears a tan knit bracelet that Ingrid made.

Malcolm lifts up a bottle of Jameson from the floor near his

chair and pours himself another stiff drink.

Jim drives with Margot in the passenger seat.

She jams her pinky into her ear trying to get at the bug.

Jim smiles crookedly at her. She half-smiles back.   He takes

a moment, preparing to speak. Then:

His headlights catch a woman cowering at the roadside. They

pass.

Jim slowly pulls over to the shoulder.

Jim gets out of the car.     A sobbing woman crouches, cradling

a bloody dog.

Jim comes toward her.

Margot opens her door and steps out.

Jim kneels down by the whining pit bull.    The woman screams:

Jim suddenly lifts up the twitching animal.

Jim drives, his front covered in blood. Margot is shot-gun.

The lady rides in back with the panting pit in her lap.

Margot puts her hands over her ears.    Jim speeds up.

Jim comes outside tucking his wallet in his back pocket.

Margot sits on the car hood smoking a joint.

Margot stubs out the joint on the car roof. Jim suddenly

removes his sweater and puts it around her shoulders. He

fishes into his pants pocket for his keys. Tears start down

Margot's cheeks.

Margot leans in to him, her forehead presses against his

cheek. After a moment, he puts his arms around her.

Margot smokes by the open door. She drinks a glass of white

wine. Pauline eats from a left-over Chinese container.

A smashing sound. Margot steps outside: Two hooded figures

turn over a recycling can, glass smashes on the ground.

Garbage is strewn across the driveway.

Pauline remains seated at the table, stunned.    Margot comes

back inside.

Malcolm crams the trash back in the cans. He sees something

amidst the milk cartons and corn husks. He reaches down and

lifts up a severed pig's hoof.

Claude and Ingrid idle in the tall grass calling to Wizard.

Claude dances. The gangly weeds blow around him. There's a

rustling in the brush. A patch of fur catches Ingrid's eye.

Claude sneaks a look over his shoulder -- the boy follows.

Claude's gait quickens.

Ingrid slows, lifts her leg and removes a sandal. The boy is

behind them. Claude yanks Ingrid's arm and she topples over.

Claude leans down to help her. The boy leaps on Claude.

They both crash to the ground and roll through the grass.

Ingrid hesitates then runs toward the house.

Claude wrestles with the boy. The boy growls. He grabs hold

of Claude's arms and sinks his teeth into Claude's shoulder.

Claude kicks and yanks himself free.     He runs wildly.

Close on Claude.    Tears stream down.   He coughs and spits.

Claude bursts through the front door. Ingrid sees Claude and

runs to the kitchen. Margot, in a suit, goes over notes.

He tilts his head, she leans down and looks at his neck.

There are red and purple bite marks.

Claude grabs her arm.

Margot smacks Claude in the face.   Ingrid stares wide eyed.

A placard reads: A Conversation with Margot Zeller and Dick

Koosman. People mull about with drinks. Pauline and Claude

admire the display of Margot's books.

Pauline stares at a blown up author photo of her sister.

The crowd files in.   Margot and Dick stand in a corner.

Dick flips through some notes.

Margot and Dick sit on stools holding microphones in front of

rows of fold-out chairs. Only a few empty seats remain.

Pauline and Claude sit in the back.

Some people applaud, but it trickles off before it gets

started.

Margot rests her lips on the tip of the microphone.

Margot grabs a pill from her pocket, puts it on her tongue

and drinks from the faucet. There is a knocking. Margot

opens the door. Claude looks up at her. Pauline and Dick

wait in the background.

A simple, spare space, empty except for Pauline and Claude.

Claude says nothing.

Pauline's Volvo rolls into the drive. She and Claude get out

of the front seats. Margot climbs out of the back holding a

big cake box. No one speaks.

Malcolm, in a fleece vest and safety goggles, drags a

chainsaw toward the oak tree. Ingrid runs to her mom.

Pauline passes Maisy reading on the patio.

Margot sits on the back stairs drinking a glass of wine with

ice. The tent is up. The tables and chairs are placed

around the lawn. She watches Malcolm prepare to take the

tree down. She puts her pinky in her ear and twists. Claude

approaches.

Margot shakes her head.   She's suddenly distraught.

Claude looks devastated. He starts toward the beach.

Margot's eyes well up -- she says, trying to make things

better:

Pauline marches toward Malcolm.    Malcolm wears the safety

goggles and revs the chainsaw.

The jagged blades pierce the trunk.   Pauline crunches her

face. Malcolm stops suddenly.

He walks around the tree and inspects the bark.

Pauline starts to say something -- stops.    Then:

Pauline rushes at the tree -- she smacks her hands on the

trunk and throws all her weight behind one great shove. It

doesn't budge. In frustration and rage, she runs.

Ingrid is the only one on the patio as Pauline approaches.

Pauline enters in a daze.   A toilet flushes.    Maisy comes out

of Pauline's bathroom.

Pauline nods strangely. She goes to the window. Her dove

grey wedding dress hangs on the back of the door.

Pauline nods. Her eye catches the Polaroids of her and

Malcolm nude which lie on top of the bureau. Maisy looks at

the pictures too.

Maisy shifts uneasily and leaves the room. Pauline follows.

Maisy walks down the hallway, aware that Pauline is right

behind her.

Maisy stops at the landing. Claude sits at the bottom of the

staircase playing with a string.

Pauline raises her leg -- her foot hovers at Maisy's lower

back. She hesitates. Claude reacts with horror. Maisy

turns around to see Pauline with her foot in the air like

she's doing karate. Pauline's eyes dart around aimlessly.

Maisy stares, confused. Pauline slowly lowers her leg.

Something dawns on Maisy. She races down the stairs.

The deafening shriek of the blade as it cuts into the tree.

Malcolm is soaked in sweat. Ingrid watches from a few feet

away.

In the distance -- Dick's orange BMW grinds into the

driveway. Maisy hurries toward him.

Ingrid says, buried in the noise:

Malcolm sees Dick.   He pushes the blade harder into the wood.

Maisy is talking to her father. Dick spots Malcolm. He

immediately starts toward him. Malcolm hesitates. Cold fear

creeps up his neck.

Dick speeds up.

Malcolm backs up slowly -- drops the chainsaw -- and bolts

toward the water. Ingrid watches, confused.

There's a rustling noise in the wind. Malcolm looks -- a mud-

and sea-coated Wizard watches him with a panting smile.

Wheels sputter in the gravel. Dick's car peels out with

Maisy in the passenger seat. Claude and Margot watch from

the porch.

Pauline is seated at the table with place cards, flowers,

silverware, napkins, dishes. Margot enters. Claude follows.

Pauline looks at Claude strangely.    She leans down and kisses

him on the lips.

The purple of Ingrid's batik shirt shines in the grass

beneath the tree.

The trunk -- a gash at its base -- teeters.

Pauline takes off into the field.

Ingrid sings to herself and traces the branches in the air

with her finger.

Pauline sprints --

Ingrid says to no one in particular:

Pauline's breaths are rapid, jagged.

Ingrid stands.

A wind whips up.    The tree sways.

Pauline thrusts her arms out, seizes Ingrid and hurls herself

away from the tree.

Ingrid sobs as they run. Pauline looks back. The tree is

still standing. They embrace a few feet out of its range.

Malcolm trudges up the stairs.   He's bloody and tattered.

Wizard trots behind him.

She hugs the dog and holds him by the collar.   The three of

them stand a few feet apart.

There's a horrible creak -- and suddenly --

-- crack --

Malcolm pulls both girls toward him --

The tree topples -- the thick trunk rips through the wedding

tent and crashes through tables and chairs and the fence --

-- onto the Vogler's property.

The speedometer needle wavers around 30. Margot clutches the

steering wheel. Claude looks morose. Pauline and Ingrid sit

stonily in the back seat. The Volvo jerks into the oncoming

lane and back. Margot draws a deep breath.

They inch up a small hill. A car cascades down past them.

The Volvo shakes. Pauline suddenly snaps out of her daze:

Margot rolls down the window.

They reach the top of the hill, over the crest, and descend.

The vehicle picks up speed. Margot presses down on the

brake.

The car coasts faster down the hill.

Margot places her arm stiffly across Claude's front.

Pauline wraps her body around her daughter.

Margot swerves into the shoulder -- she makes a sharp turn

into the forest and crashes through the bramble and muck.

The car slows until it comes to a sudden stop at the base of

a tree.

Margot and Claude, Pauline and Ingrid trudge through the bony

white trees of the forest -- their bags weigh them down.

They're all covered in sweat and there's dirt caked on their

feet and ankles.

Pauline's face screws up. She's suddenly in pain.   She races

behind a tree. Margot follows.

Margot stops.

Margot steps to see around the trunk. The kids follow

behind. Pauline removes her panties from under her skirt.

She tosses them in the brush.

Margot turns to the kids.   Ingrid hides a smile.

Margot and Claude sit, streaked with mud and perspiration.

Margot drinks a beer, Claude a Coke. Margot pops a blue pill

in her mouth and swallows. Ingrid swings on the rail.

Pauline hangs up a cell phone and hands it back to her

sister. She takes the beer and swigs.

Margot puts her pinky in her ear.

Claude turns his head. In the Chevy next to them sits Mrs.

Vogler and the Vogler boy. She sings along to the radio.

She runs her hand through her son's hair gently. He nestles

into her shoulder.

The four of them get out of a taxi.   A small, peeling hotel.

A dark tight space with a faded and dirty green wall-to-wall

carpet. Pauline combs Ingrid's hair on one of the two double

beds. Ingrid practices her wedding song. Claude sits on the

other bed and looks into the open bathroom door: Margot

stands with her back to him. She talks on her cell phone in

a whisper. She hangs up. Claude walks inside. The sink

drips.

Claude tugs gently on his yellow bracelet.

The distant bong of a low drum and beneath that -- chanting.

Claude follows Margot to the window. Ingrid and Pauline are

already looking out.

Clumps of demonstrators march in the street. Some people

hold up signs with slogans -- NO MORE -- BRING BACK -- the

rest is obscured from the window. Some marchers are dressed

in black hoods with white face paint and carry cardboard

coffins.

Margot looks at her son who continues to watch out the

window.

Pauline emerges from behind the armoire doors wearing a long

nightshirt that reads: I Spent The Night With Arsenio Hall.

She enters the bathroom. She mutters to herself.

Margot jimmies up the stiff window to let in some air. A few

stragglers still march in the street. Trash and pieces of

signage line the gutter. Margot turns into the room. She

puts her hand to her cheek and strokes her smooth skin. She

watches her son who removes his jeans for bed.

Pauline tucks in Ingrid who lies next to Claude. Margot sits

on the other bed scribbling in her brown notebook. Pauline

marches around and across to the other side of the room. She

snatches the book out of Margot's hands.

Cheap plastic tables. A small karaoke stage in front.

Margot, Claude, Pauline and Ingrid sit at the bar. Margot

drinks her wine with ice. She wears Jim's sweater. The kids

have Cokes. The remains of ketchup-soaked french fries in a

plastic red basket lie between them.

A man with a mullet climbs up on the karaoke stage. The

music begins. The man sways and sings "On and On" by Stephen

Bishop. He croons sweetly and beautifully. Claude's eyes

moisten. Margot swallows a blue pill and chases it with the

wine. She takes her son's hand and whispers:

Margot quickly turns to her sister.

Pauline walks over to a pay phone.

Pauline holds the receiver to her ear. She stares at a

drawing of a monster fucking a woman on the wall above the

pay phone. Malcolm is crying.

Malcolm sits in the grass, the tree and wreckage behind him.

At the bar: Margot watches her sister carefully. She absent-

mindedly picks through her red knit bracelet and drops it

onto the floor.

Ingrid slides something small and grey across the bar to

Claude.

Pauline now stands above them.

Ingrid's chair scrapes as she stands.      She takes her mother's

hand. Margot remains seated.

Pauline and Ingrid head for the door.      Claude waits for

Margot.

She grabs her bags and drops some bills on the table.

The sisters and children come outside.      The mother and Becky

now idle further down the street.

Margot takes Claude's arm and walks quickly in the opposite

direction. Claude, confused, glances over his shoulder.

A huge parking lot. A bus in the distance.   Claude tries to

keep pace with his mother.

An unfamiliar sound comes out of Margot. The sadness is

unexpected -- she sobs uncontrollably. She tries to speak:

Claude hurries toward the back and finds a window seat.    He

puts his bag next to him and looks out the dirty glass.

Claude's POV: Margot, her back to him, puts her finger in her

ear and shakes her head.

The sweater around her waist loosens and drifts to the

pavement. She starts walking.

The bus hisses and lurches forward.    Claude strains to see:

Margot looks back.

The bus groans as it picks up speed.   Margot sprints.

She's runs full speed, waving her arms wildly.

She pants, breathless.

The bus brakes.

She passes Claude's window. We stay on Claude. He waits.

Finally, she appears next to him, covered in sweat, and

panting. She kisses him on the head. The bus starts moving.

Margot cranes her neck to see outside.

Claude turns away from his mother and looks out the window.

CUT TO BLACK.

