NEW YORK CITY, 187TH STREET. A SUMMER DAY

FADE IN:

Just east of Webster Avenue in the North Bronx, 187th Street

is a predominantly Italian community and the commercial avenue

of the neighborhood. Fruit and vegetable stands, pizzerias,

butcher shops, bakeries, cleaners and dyers and bars flourish.

It is Saturday morning around eleven o'clock -- a market

day.

WOMEN, dark, gesticulative, with bulging cloth shopping bags,

baby carriages. MERCHANTS at their improvised street stands,

hawking their wares, disputing with their CUSTOMERS, roaring

salutations to PASSERSBY.

In the midst of all this, CAMERA HOMES IN on a typical

neighborhood...

BUTCHER SHOP.

Delicatessens hang on the walls, wreathed with garlands of

garlic. PATSY, the boss, a swarthy man of sixty, is flopping

a chunk of beef onto the scale for the benefit of a forty-

year-old MATRON. There are three or four other WOMEN in the

shop, all talking to one another. A four-year-old BOY lazily

chases a cat.

The white refrigerator room door opens, and a second butcher,

MARTY PILLETTI, comes out carrying a large leg of lamb. Marty

is a mildmannered, short, stout, balding man of thirty-four.

His charm lies in an almost indestructible good humor. He

drops the leg of lamb onto the chopping block, reaches up

for the cleaver hanging with the other utensils over the

block and makes quick incisive cuts into the leg of lamb. He

sets the cleaver aside, picks up the saw to finish the cuts

as he chats with his customer, MRS. FUSARI.

Marty sets the five chops on the scale, watches its weight

register.

Mrs. Fusari produces an old leather change purse from her

pocketbook and painfully extracts one single dollar bill and

seventy-nine cents to the penny and lays the money piece by

piece on the counter. From the rear of the shop a woman's

VOICE rings out.

Mrs. Fusari takes her parcel of meat, but apparently she

feels she still hasn't quite made her point.

She takes her package of meat. Marty gathers up the money on

the counter, turns to the cash register behind him to ring

up the sale. Mrs. Canduso sidles up to the counter.

NEIGHBORHOOD BAR. LATE AFTERNOON

A TV set on the wall. Mel Allen, smoking a White Owl cigar,

is recapping the baseball game that has just finished as

Marty comes in.

The Young Men exit without answering. Marty moves further

into the bar, which is crowded with locals, smoky, noisy.

ACROSS GROUP at bar with Marty in the background approaching,

we see a group consisting of RALPH, who wears a suit and

tie, the only man in the room who isn't in shirtsleeves or a

Basque shirt; JOE, thirty-two, hunched over a girlie magazine;

a KID, twenty-two, studying the magazine over Joe's shoulder.

The Kid indicates a booth where a small wasp of a man, mid-

thirties, is sitting, bent over the sports pages of the Daily

News.

Joe turns another page in the girlie magazine.

THE BOOTH.

Marty joins his friend Angie and pushes a bottle of beer at

him, pulling one of the pages loose from the paper Angie is

reading. For a moment, the two men sit quietly, each poring

over his separate piece of newspaper.

Angie sits down again. They both return to their papers for

a moment. Then Angie looks up again.

Marty makes a wry face at the suggestion.

Angie leans back in his seat, scowls at the paper napkin

container on the booth table. Marty returns to the sports

page. For a moment, a silence hangs between them.

PILLETTI HOME, LIVING ROOM.

It's a typical lower-middle-class Italian home, and MRS.

PILLETTI is on the phone, a round, dark woman. Beyond her,

in the dining room, we can see a young couple -- THOMAS,

Marty's cousin, and his wife VIRGINIA, seated at the dining

room table.

THE BAR.

PILLETTI HOME, LIVING ROOM.

Mrs. Pilletti is on the phone.

She hangs up, braces herself, turns and starts back to Thomas

and Virginia in the dining room.

Thomas and Virginia suddenly frown and look down at their

hands as if of one mind.

Virginia promptly bursts into tears.

She comes back into the dining room, wiping her hands on a

kitchen towel.

The SOUND of the DOOR BEING UNLATCHED in the kitchen can be

heard. Mrs. Pilletti promptly rises.

She hurries into...

THE KITCHEN.

Marty comes into the kitchen from the rear porch.

She turns and leads the way back into the dining room. Marty

follows.

DINING ROOM.

Thomas has risen. Mrs. Pilletti and Marty come in.

She exits into the kitchen. Virginia follows her to the

kitchen door, where the two women ad-lib the following lines

over the ensuing scene between Marty and Thomas.

Over this, Thomas talks to Marty.

Thomas has moved off to join his wife in the kitchen where

we can hear them exchanging final protestations and goodbys

with Mrs. Pilletti. Marty sits at the table, hands folded in

front of him, stolid, pensive.

THE KITCHEN. DUSK.

Mrs. Pilletti bends over her steaming kettles. Through the

window we see evening is gathering.

MARTY'S BEDROOM.

It's a small room with bed, chest of drawers, religious

pictures, etc. Marty sits squatly on the edge of the bed,

absorbed in thought. He stands, moves out into...

THE GROUND FLOOR CORRIDOR.

...and down that into...

THE DINING ROOM.

...now lit by the overhead neo-Tiffany lampshade and the

beaded old-fashioned lamps. He crosses to the kitchen door,

looks in on his mother, cooking away, turns, crosses back

to...

THE LIVING ROOM.

He closes the sliding doors that separate the living and

dining rooms. He extracts a small black address book from

his hip pocket, flips through it, finds the page he wants,

studies it intently.

He sits on the chair by the phone, dials.

He waits again. With his free hand he wipes the gathering

sweat on his brow.

The girl apparently doesn't remember him. A sort of panic

begins to seize Marty. His voice rises a little.

He hangs up, sits for a moment, then rises, opens the sliding

doors, enters...

THE DINING ROOM.

He sits at the heavy, wooden table with its white-on-white

table cloth.

THE KITCHEN.

Mrs. Pilletti ladles portions of food from the steaming

kettles onto a plate that she brings into...

THE DINING ROOM.

...and sets it down before her son. Without a word, he picks

up his fork and spoon and plunges into the mountain of

spaghetti, adds cheese, eats away. Mrs. Pilletti takes her

seat, folds her hands on the table, and sits watching Marty

eat.

Mrs. Pilletti nods a couple of times. A moment of silence.

This gives Marty pause. He looks up.

Marty regards his mother for a moment.

He stands abruptly, his face pained and drawn. He makes half-

formed gestures to his mother, but he can't find words at

the moment. He turns and marches a few paces away, turns to

his mother again.

Sullenly, he marches back to his seat, sits down, picks up

his fork, plunges it into the spaghetti, stuffs a mouthful

into his mouth, and chews vigorously for a moment. It is

impossible for him to remain angry long. After a while, he

is shaking his head.

He plunges his fork in again, starts to eat. Mrs. Pilletti

watches Marty anxiously as we...

FADE OUT.

FADE IN

NEW YORK CITY, WEST FARMS SQUARE. NIGHT

West Farms Square is a big street in the Bronx, filled with

stores, bowling alleys and bars. Cars push along between the

pillars of the elevated subway structure. The NOISE of the

subway trains ROARS by overhead every few moments.

CAMERA FINDS and ESTABLISHES the Stardust Ballroom. It

occupies the second floor of a large, dirty gray three-story

building. It is a hot June night, and the windows are open

for ventilation purposes. MUSIC manufactured by Dave

Greenglass and His Band blends with the NOISES of the street.

STARDUST BALLROOM. ENTRANCE VESTIBULE/STAIRS.

MUSIC plays in the background. CAMERA views CLARA, a plain

girl in her late twenties; her younger sister, MILLIE,

prettier; Millie's fiance ANDY, 30; and a second young man

DR. KEEGAN, also 30, who is a resident at Fordham Hospital.

They are all huddled over a cigarette machine near the street

door.

They join the two girls waiting for them and start up the

broad stairway to the second floor. They are halfway up,

when two GIRLS come in at the top of the stairs and start

down. Dr. Keegan, who is holding Clara's arm, looks up, nods.

STARDUST BALLROOM, ANTEROOM.

This is a small, carpeted lobby with TICKET TAKER in booth,

a cloak room and rest rooms. Painted posters on the walls

announce coming events and caution against smoking. There

are also large blow-ups of musicians who had played this

ballroom at one time and went on to bigger things. About six

or seven PEOPLE congregate in the lobby, engaged in various

indifferent activities.

CAMERA ANGLES include the swinging doors, as Clara, Andy,

Millie and Dr. Keegan come in. As they enter, the doors to

the ballroom proper are pushed out, and a GIRL in a black

dress, quite pretty, comes in. She starts across the anteroom

toward the cloak room, when Dr. Keegan calls out suddenly to

her.

The girl turns. Recognition floods her face.

She turns and continues on to the cloak room. Dr. Keegan

turns to Clara.

BALLROOM, LOUNGE.

A fairly long room, lined on one side by a bar and on the

other by cheap leatherette booths. It is brightly lit and

crowded. There is a constant movement in and out of the

lounge. At the far end of the lounge, there are two large

iron fire doors open to allow the heat to flow out. Dance

MUSIC from dance floor.

Clara, Dr. Keegan, Millie and Andy come into the lounge and

form a little group in the midst of moving PASSERSBY around

them. A kind of strange excitement has begun to enter Dr.

Keegan. He stands with the others, but his attention is

devoted to ogling the passing GIRLS, occasionally looking

back to the doors leading to the anteroom.

Dr. Keegan doesn't seem to hear.

He turns and moves quickly through the crowded lounge, back

to the swinging doors leading into the anteroom. CAMERA STAYS

with Clara, Millie and Andy staring after him.

They turn and move toward the booths.

BALLROOM.

The dance floor is fairly dark. A romantic effect is achieved

by papier-mache over the chandeliers. Around the walls are

the stag lines -- the MEN and waiting GIRLS. They stand singly

or in small uneasy groups. There is constant flux and

movement.

CAMERA DOLLIES slowly past the stag line, moving past faces,

short, fat, tall, thin stags. Some pretend indifference.

Some exhibit patent hunger.

CAMERA HOLDS ANGLING to include Marty, Angie near the end of

the stag line. They are freshly shaved and groomed.

MARTY AND ANGIE.

They are leaning against the wall smoking, watching their

more fortunate brethren on the floor in the background.

REVERSE ANGLE PAST Marty and Angie across the dance floor

toward the wall opposite, where three GIRLS are standing.

Two are leaning against the wall. The third is facing them

with her back to the dance floor. This last girl is the one

Angie has in mind. She is a cute little kid about twenty and

wears a bright smile.

MARTY AND ANGIE.

They stare off toward the three girls across the room.

He tries a few tentative steps, testing for tempo.

The two cavaliers turn their heads and look off-screen in

the direction of the three girls. Apparently, the girls are

still there. Marty and Angie relinquish their lounging

positions against the wall and slouch along past the line of

stags with a show of determined unconcern. They edge through

the crush of people on the non-dancing margin of the dance

floor and slowly push their way toward the...

THREE GIRLS.

Marty and Angie come in and start to approach the three girls.

The girls, aware of the boys' presence, stiffen and their

chatter comes to a halt. Angie advances to one of the girls.

The girl looks surprised, as if this were an extraordinary

invitation to receive in a dance hall, looks confounded at

her two friends, shrugs, detaches herself from the wall,

moves to the outer fringe of the pack of dancers, raises her

hand languidly to dancing position and awaits Angie with

ineffable boredom. Marty, smiling tentatively, addresses the

SHORT GIRL.

The Short Girl gives Marty a quick glance of appraisal, then

looks quickly at her remaining friend.

He turns and heads sluggishly in the direction of the stag

line.

THE STAG LINE.

A TRAVEL SHOT follows Marty, as he moves past the line of

stags, all of whom are watching him. CAMERA HOLDS as he finds

his old niche by the wall, leans there. A moment later, he

glances guardedly down to where the short girl and her friend

are.

MARTY'S P.O.V.: The Short Girl is approached by a dapper

young BOY who asks her to dance. She smiles, excuses herself

to her friend and follows the boy out onto the dance floor.

Marty stares at the Short Girl. He shrugs, he's used to this

kind of thing, then turns his attention bleakly back to

watching...

THE DANCE FLOOR.

The band starts up again and the MUSIC blares. It's a Lindy

Hop number. Couples swirl past; the MUSIC comes up BIG.

THE BALLROOM.

Marty leans against the wall, smoking and watching the dancers

swirl past. Dr. Keegan's VOICE is heard.

Marty's attention is on the passing couples, so he doesn't

seem to hear. ANGLE WIDENS to include the Doctor standing on

Marty's right. Suddenly aware of the Doctor, Marty turns his

head.

Dr. Keegan shrugs, moves down the line of stag guys. Marty

turns to watch him, still a little shocked at the proposition.

The Doctor approaches THREE STAGS and obviously broaches the

subject with one of them. This STAG seems more receptive to

the idea. Dr. Keegan takes out a wallet and gives the Stag a

five dollar bill. The Stag detaches himself from the wall

and, a little ill-at-ease, follows the Doctor.

Marty stands against the wall, watching the Doctor and the

Stag, who come in and move past him. Concerned and curious,

Marty stares after them, then moves out of his leaning

position, following in their general direction.

Marty moves through the crush of young men and women in the

area around the dance floor.

ALCOVE NEAR ARCHWAY.

As Marty reaches the alcove that separates the dance floor

proper from the lounge, he pauses and looks off toward the

booths.

LOUNGE.

Clara sits about halfway down the length of the booths. Dr.

Keegan and the Stag stand over her, talking to her. She is

looking up at them, her hands nervously gripping a Coca Cola

glass. Dr. Keegan is obviously introducing the Stag to Clara

and is going through some story about being called away on

an emergency. The Stag is presented as her escort-to-be, who

will see to it that she gets home safely.

Clara is not taken in by any of this, although she is trying

hard not to seem affected. She politely rejects the Stag's

company and will go home by herself, thanks for asking anyway.

Dr. Keegan makes a few mild protestations, and then he and

the Stag leave the booth and start back toward the archway.

ARCHWAY.

From where Marty stands, he can watch Clara, as well as Dr.

Keegan and the Stag. The Doctor and the Stag start past Marty,

and he catches their conversation.

They move past and away and Marty stares after them before

he turns his attention toward Clara off-screen.

Clara is sitting as she was, gripping and ungripping the

glass of Coca Cola in front of her. Her eyes are closed.

Then, with a little nervous shake of her head she gets out

of the booth and stands momentarily at a loss for what next

to do. As she glances around, CAMERA ANGLES to include a

sign over an exit that reads "Fire Escape." Clara starts

moving toward that door.

Marty is staring off-screen toward Clara. He slowly works

his way down the length of the lounge in the general direction

of the fire escape.

LOUNGE.

Near the entrance to the fire escape, Clara comes into view.

Background sounds continue steadily.

Marty is walking the length of the lounge and suddenly stops

and stares off-screen.

Clara disappears through the exit onto the fire escape

outside.

Marty watches. Then he continues on, crossing the threshold

of the...

FIRE ESCAPE.

It is sizeable, almost a small balcony. It looks out onto

the backs of innumerable five-story apartment houses. Clara

is standing by the railing, her back toward the camera, her

head sunk down. She is crying. Marty watches her for a moment

before moving a step or two forward.

Clara doesn't turn. Marty tries to think of something to

say.

Clara slowly turns to Marty, her face streaked with tears,

her lips trembling. Then, in one of those moments of

simultaneous impulse, she lurches to Marty with a sob, and

Marty takes her to him.

They stand in an awkward embrace, Marty a little embarrassed,

looking back through the fire escape doors to the lounge,

wondering if anybody is seeing them. He reaches back with

one hand, and contrives, with some effort, to push one of

the heavy iron doors shut. He returns his hand around the

girl's shoulders. He stands stiffly, allowing her to cry on

his chest, as we...

FADE OUT.

FADE IN:

BRONX APARTMENT HOUSE, STAIRWAY. NIGHT

Mrs. Pilletti, in her hat and coat and carrying a purse, is

making her heavy way up the last few steps toward the landing.

She pauses to catch her breath on the landing. Then she moves

down the hallway to...

ENTRANCE TO APARTMENT 4-B.

Mrs. Pilletti rings the bell. The SOUND can be heard as she

waits. The door is opened by Virginia.

Mrs. Pilletti enters the apartment.

APARTMENT.

Virginia closes the door after Mrs. Pilletti enters, and

they stand in a small narrow hallway, brightly lit. At the

far end to the right is the living room in the background.

Virginia helps her with her coat.

Thomas appears at the living room end of the foyer with an

anxious smile on his face.

He comes down to Mrs. Pilletti and Virginia, lowers his voice

to a conspiratorial whisper.

A shrill, imperious woman's voice breaks into the whispered

conference in the hallway.

Mrs. Pilletti heads up the foyer to the living room, followed

by Virginia and Thomas.

CATHERINE comes in at the end of the foyer. She is a gaunt

woman with a face carved out of granite. She is tough,

embittered, with a history of pain and mirthless hard work

ingrained into her features.

The two sisters quickly embrace and release each other.

Now that the standard greetings are over, Aunt Catherine

abruptly turns and goes back into the living room. Mrs.

Pilletti follows. Virginia and Thomas remain in the doorway.

LIVING ROOM.

Catherine and Mrs. Pilletti enter and Catherine heads straight

to a chair -- obviously her chair. It is an old heavy oaken

chair with thick armrests. The rest of the apartment is

furnished in what is known as "modern." A piece from House

Beautiful here, a piece from American Homes and Gardens there.

Aunt Catherine sits erect and forbidding in her chair. Mrs.

Pilletti seats herself with a sigh in a neighboring chair.

Thomas and Virginia remain off-screen in the hallway for a

moment to hang up Mrs. Pilletti's coat. The two old sisters

sit for a moment.

Aunt Catherine grimaces to describe how everything is with

her.

Thomas comes in from the hallway, stands in the back of the

room, somewhat apprehensively.

Virginia comes into the living room with Thomas. They remain

in the background.

Thomas looks indecisively at his wife.

Thomas ponders a moment.

They exit. The two old sisters sit rigidly until they hear

the SOUND of the door closing. Catherine cocks an eyebrow

and promptly launches into her statement.

She demonstrates this by pulling the lower lid of one eye

down and staring grotesquely at the ceiling.

Her sister turns, genuinely surprised at this request.

Catherine surveys her sister coldly.

Catherine stands abruptly. She is deeply hurt.

Catherine turns and meanders a few steps. The stiff edge of

mordant humor that has been her one defense against life has

deserted her, and she is just a hurt old lady now.

She seats herself on an Eames chair. On her right, a Modern-

Age lamp towers slimly. On her left is a Modern-Age endtable

with a Modern-Age ashtray on it. The hardened muscles in her

face suddenly slacken.

Catherine stares distraught at Mrs. Pilletti.

She stares at Mrs. Pilletti, her deep eyes haggard and pained.

Mrs. Pilletti stares back for a moment, then her own eyes

close. Catherine has hit home. Catherine sinks back onto her

chair, sitting stiffly, her arms on the thick armrests. Mrs.

Pilletti sits hunched a little forward, her hands folded

nervously in her lap.

The two sisters, somber and silent, continue to just stare

at one another.

THE STARDUST BALLROOM. NIGHT

CAMERA PANS the crowd, picking up Marty and Clara dancing

cheek-to-cheek on the crowded, darkened dance floor. The

MUSIC rides over the top of the scene.

Clara smiles briefly at this.

They dance silently for a moment, cheeks pressed against

each other.

BALLROOM, STAIRWAY.

Marty and Clara are about halfway down the steps leading to

the street entrance to the ballroom. Clara has on a light

summer coat. Marty is about two steps ahead of her and has

to keep turning his head to talk to her. He is in an elevated

mood, intoxicated -- on a talking jag.

He has reached the street landing and waits for Clara to

catch up with him. They stand in front of the glass doors

leading to the street.

BALLROOM VESTIBULE. GLASS DOORS.

He pushes the glass door open to...

THE STREET OUTSIDE THE STARDUST BALLROOM.

As Marty and Clara emerge onto the sidewalk of West Farms

Square, they pause again.

It is about nine o'clock, and the busy street is brightly

lit from the stores.

PASSERSBY hurry on their way. The elevated subway RUMBLES

over-head intermittently.

He takes her arm, and they start walking.

SIDEWALK.

MOVING SHOT as they stroll toward the corner of Jerome and

Burnside Avenues.

CAMERA HOLDS as Marty, caught in his story, stops and

continues intently.

Suddenly he looks at Clara, rather startled.

He takes her arm again, and they continue strolling toward

the corner intersection in silence.

They reach the corner intersection. CAMERA HOLDS on Marty as

he pauses again. He stares at Clara, confused at his strange

loquacity.

Marty stares at Clara, absolutely aghast at his inability to

stop talking.

He stands there in the middle of the sidewalk with PEOPLE

moving past, back and forth. Marty continues to stare at

Clara, his broad face widened by a foolish, confused smile.

Clara regards him affectionately.

They stroll along farther up the noisy, jangled, trafficked

Saturday night avenue.

GRAND CONCOURSE LUNCHEONETTE. NIGHT.

Once a candy store, now a soda fountain where booths have

been installed in the rear. One wall of the luncheonette in

front is covered with magazines from floor to ceiling. It is

a nice clean joint, brightly lit. Several CUSTOMERS are

occupying three of the four booths.

BOOTH.

They sit opposite each other in the booth. Each has a cup of

coffee. Marty is still talking, but now he is apparently

telling a story so funny that he can hardly get the words

out. The hilarity has communicated itself to Clara. Her eyes

are burning with suppressed laughter. Every now and then she

has to gasp to control the bubbly giggling inside of her.

He has to interrupt the narrative to control a seizure of

giggles. Clara wipes her eyes and catches her breath.

He can't go on. He has to stop and cover his face with one

hand.

It's too much for him. He lets out a sudden guffaw and

instantly smothers it under shaking shoulders. Clara hides

her face in her hands and giggles desperately. Some of the

other people turn to look at them.

He stares at the girl, spent from laughter.

He closes his eyes, shakes his head.

For a moment they seem to have controlled their laughter.

They sit, shaking their heads, studying their fingers on the

table in front of them. Then slowly, Marty begins to giggle

again. It communicates itself to Clara. In a moment they are

hiding their faces in their hands, their shoulders shivering

with laughter.

STARDUST BALLROOM.

CLOSE ON Angie. His eyes look slowly in every direction.

CAMERA PULLS BACK disclosing Angie standing on the fringe of

the dance floor, head arched high, looking at the crowded

dance floor. He starts back to the archway toward the lounge,

looking over his shoulder.

ARCHWAY.

Angie comes into the archway, throws one more glance over

his shoulder at the dance floor, then turns and enters the...

LOUNGE.

Angie walks down the length of the lounge, looking into the

booths and simultaneously at the PEOPLE moving back and forth

in the lounge. At the far end of the lounge, he turns and

comes back along the bar side, checking each face at the

bar.

ANTEROOM.

There are three young BUCKOES laying out their money for

admission. One of them calls to Angie.

He crosses to the Men's Room.

MEN'S ROOM.

Angie comes into a momentarily empty room. Angie goes the

full length of the white tiled room, past the wash bowls,

the long mirror, bending to look under the doors of the

stalls. Suddenly he calls out.

He waits for an answer...

GRAND CONCOURSE LUNCHEONETTE.

CLOSE ON Marty and Clara still in the booth, but two more

cups of coffee have been set down in front of each of them.

There are also two pie-plates. Clara has left half of her

pie. Also an empty pack of cigarettes, and another pack half-

gone. They are both smoking. Marty is still talking, but the

mood is no longer laughter. A pensive, speculative hush has

fallen over them. They have been talking for hours, and they

have reached the stage where you start tearing designs in

the paper napkins.

Marty looks quickly up at her, then back down.

Clara looks down at her fingers, her face alive and sensitive.

She carefully assembles her words in her mind. Then she looks

at the squat butcher across the table from her.

Marty shuts his eyes, then opens them quickly, bows his head.

Clara pauses.

He looks up at her now.

Tears begin to flood his eyes again. He quickly looks away.

He licks his lips.

Clara looks down at her hands.

Marty looks up at her.

She twists in her seat and looks toward the back of the

luncheonette.

Marty considers this problem for a second, then leans out of

the booth and calls out.

CAMERA ANGLES to include the PROPRIETOR of the luncheonette.

He is sitting in one of the booths ahead reading the Sunday

Mirror. He looks up toward Marty.

Clara smiles at this innocent gaucherie, then edges out of

the booth, taking her purse with her.

187TH STREET. NIGHT.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT of Angie meandering down the street on which

the neighborhood bar is located. It is near midnight, and

the street is empty except for Angie and the CLACKING of his

leather heels on the pavement. He comes to the bar, opens

the door, enters...

THE BAR. NIGHT.

The SOUNDS of Saturday night revelry are loud, coming mostly

from the Irish contingent of the neighborhood. They are

grouped along practically the whole bar. Three or four WOMEN

and a number of shirtsleeved MEN, mostly in their late

forties, early fifties. We know they're Irish, because one

of the younger men is chanting an auld country ballad.

CAMERA ANGLES disclose the entrance to the bar in the

background, showing Angie coming in, looking here and there.

He starts toward the bar.

NEAR BAR.

TWO IRISH WOMEN, middle-aged, squat heavily on bar stools

over their schooners of beer, gassing away at each other.

Angie shuffles in, pausing near the bar and standing behind

the two Irish women.

CAMERA ANGLES to include Lou, the Bartender.

Angie has nothing better to do than give his attention to

the last lines of the story. Perturbed, he turns and leaves.

NEAR ELEVATED SUBWAY. NIGHT.

With street NOISES over the scene, Marty and Clara walk along

through the intricate understructure of the elevated subway

toward Webster Avenue.

STREET.

Marty and Clara walk slowly along a side street in Marty's

neighborhood. The streets are almost empty; perhaps an

occasional PEDESTRIAN on the other side of the street. The

cars are parked bumper-to-bumper in lines along the curb.

The five-story apartment buildings are mostly dark, an

occasional window lit.

Marty suddenly stops and bends down; his shoe lace has become

untied. Clara sits back against the fender of the nearest

car and continues talking.

She pauses as he straightens. He looks at her a moment.

They have only gone a few paces farther when Marty's shoelace

comes loose again. He fidgets self-consciously, bends down

and begins to retie it. The VOICE of Ralph, the well-dressed

man, established previously, is heard.

Marty and Clara both look off...

STREET. CAR WINDOW.

Ralph is leaning out the car window twisting to look back up

the street.

Marty and Clara look around to find the source of the voice.

Marty and Clara again look around trying to find Ralph. Marty

spots him leaning out of the window of a '47 Chevy parked in

the background.

Marty and Clara start walking toward the Chevy.

INSIDE THE CHEVY.

Ralph and MABEL, a young woman in her early thirties, are

seated in front. In the rear seat of the car, LEO is

sandwiched in between a MISS LOUISE KELLY and a MISS ELAINE

RITCHIE.

STREET.

Marty stops and excuses himself from Clara to walk slowly

toward the Chevy. It's about five cars down from him. The

camera pans with him.

OUTSIDE THE CHEVY.

Ralph is leaning out of the window again, watching Marty

approach.

Marty leans with his elbow on the open front window of the

car, his head bowed, waiting for Ralph to speak his piece.

He studiously avoids looking at the girls in the car.

Marty allows his eyes to flicker quickly over the girl in

the seat next to Ralph.

Louise, not an unattractive girl by any means, is a little

surly at the moment. She merely nods at the introduction.

Marty straightens, looks surreptitiously back to the corner

where Clara is standing.

Clara stands alone on the corner. She is an angular, awkward,

plain girl. Marty brings his attention back around to Ralph

who is leaning out of the car window.

Ralph bends forward and starts the car.

Marty takes a step or two back from the car, and Ralph begins

the business of wheeling the car from out of its parking

place. The car backs and fills once or twice and eventually

clears and whisks into the street.

Marty stands looking after the departing car, then slowly

turns and goes back up the sidewalk. He joins Clara and we...

PILLETTI HOME, KITCHEN. NIGHT

Marty and Clara come into the dark house. Nobody is home.

Marty and Clara's silhouettes block the doorway momentarily.

He finds the lights. The kitchen is suddenly brightly lit.

The two of them stand squinting to adjust to the sudden glare.

Clara advances into the kitchen, a little ill at ease, and

looks around. Marty closes the porch door.

He turns the light on as he enters. Clara follows him into

the...

DINING ROOM.

He helps her off with her coat. He remains behind her, looking

down at her. Conscious of his scrutiny, she sits

uncomfortably, breathing unevenly. Marty takes her coat into

the dark living room. Clara is patient but nervous. Marty

comes back, sits on another chair, and there is an awkward

silence.

She stands. He stands. He's a little angry. He turns and

sullenly goes back to the living room for her coat.

Wordlessly, he begins to help her into the coat.

Standing behind her, he puts his hands on her shoulders,

then suddenly seizes her, and begins kissing her on the neck.

As Marty holds Clara, kissing the back of her neck, the

dialogue drops to quick, hushed whispers.

He attempts to turn her face toward him. She resists.

He releases her and turns away violently.

He marches a few paces away, deeply disturbed. He turns back

to her.

He turns and goes into the living room to hide the flush of

hot tears threatening to fill his eyes. Clara is also on the

verge of tears.

Slowly, she moves to the archway leading to the living room.

CAMERA ANGLES to include the living room where Marty sits on

the couch with his hands in his lap, staring straight ahead.

The room is dark except for the slanted light coming from

the dining room.

Clara goes to the couch and sits on the edge beside him. He

doesn't look at her.

LIVING ROOM.

He starts to rise but instead sinks back onto the couch,

looking straight ahead. Clara looks at him, her face

peculiarly soft and compassionate.

Marty stares down at his hands.

She stands.

He rises and goes into his bedroom. CAMERA ANGLES to include

door to bedroom. Marty opens his bureau drawer and extracts

a pack of cigarettes. He comes back out and looks at Clara

for the first time. They start to walk to the dining room.

In the archway, Marty pauses and turns to her.

They quietly slip into each other's arms and kiss. Slowly

their faces part, and Marty's head sinks down upon her

shoulder. He is crying, detectable from the slight shake of

his shoulders. The girl presses her cheek against the back

of his head. They stand. The SOUND of the kitchen door opening

splits them out of their embrace. A moment later Mrs.

Pilletti's voice is heard.

She comes into the dining room, stops at the sight of Marty

and Clara.

This seems to impress Mrs. Pilletti.

Mrs. Pilletti pulls her coat off.

Clara smiles and sits. Mrs. Pilletti likewise seats herself,

holding her coat in her lap.

Mrs. Pilletti darts a quick, sharp look at Clara. Then she

looks back to her own hands, which are beginning to twist

nervously.

Marty and Clara move toward the kitchen.

Marty and Clara go out through the kitchen. CAMERA STAYS on

Mrs. Pilletti, who stands expressionlessly by her chair,

staring after them. She remains there rigid even after the

kitchen door has OPENED and SHUT.

FORDHAM ROAD. NIGHT

The biggest intersection in the Bronx is near the Grand

Concourse at Fordham Road, which is the biggest boulevard.

Despite the hour, the sidewalks are crowded with PEOPLE. The

TRAFFIC is heavy with buses.

We PICK UP Angie walking up Fordham Road just about to the

Grand Concourse. As he reaches the northeast corner of the

intersection and stands, waiting for the light to change, he

looks off-screen. Something captures his attention, and he

calls out.

STREET OUTSIDE A DEPARTMENT STORE.

In front of Alexander's Department Store, the street is

crowded, and a bus queue waits for the downtown Concourse

bus. Marty and Clara are part of the queue.

Angie starts into the street without waiting for the lights

to change. Impatiently, he has to wait until traffic stops

for the light.

Marty and Clara still stand, seeming not to hear Angie.

Marty and Clara turn and stare off-screen.

Angie pushes his way through the CROWD on the sidewalk and

manages to join Marty and Clara.

Angie is absolutely unaware of, or simply refuses to

acknowledge the presence of the girl. He has pushed himself

in between Marty and Clara, and addresses himself entirely

to Marty.

Angie acknowledges the introduction with a surly nod.

Angie stares with thick, sullen jealousy at his best friend.

He turns sharply and starts away from Marty and Clara.

Angie, feeling rejected and jealous, moves swiftly out into

the other PEDESTRIANS on Fordham Road.

He stares for a moment at the departing form of his friend,

then turns to Clara with a shrug and a smile, as if to say,

"I don't know what's the matter with him." The long-awaited

downtown bus ROARS up to the corner, blocking our view of

Marty and Clara.

LOWER-MIDDLE-CLASS BRONX STREET. NIGHT.

Marty and Clara stroll along the walk toward the front doors

of an apartment house.

APARTMENT HOUSE LOBBY. NIGHT.

Marty and Clara enter and cross the lobby toward the stairway.

They move slowly.

Clara leans against the iron banister of the stairway.

The doors of the ELEVATOR slide open, and a middle-aged COUPLE

comes out. They have obviously been having a heated exchange;

but at the sight of Marty and the girl at the stairway, they

become silent. They march across the lobby and out to the

street in repressed silence. The door CLANGS behind them.

Marty and Clara have waited stiffly through this interruption,

and now they look at each other and smile.

Marty turns and moves across the lobby toward the street

door.

OUTSIDE THE APARTMENT HOUSE.

Marty stands a moment in the clear black night air,

expressionless, but within him, a strange exhilaration is

beginning to stir. He mosies away from the building along

the sidewalk, CAMERA panning with him.

He strikes out suddenly with a spirited stride, as if he

knew where he was going.

176TH STREET.

CLOSER SHOT of Marty marching along 176th Street. He quickly

reaches the Grand Concourse. Here he pauses a moment, a little

at a loss for what direction to take -- then remembers he

needs the uptown bus.

He moves across the wide street to get to the other side of

the boulevard. Again, he seems to lose track of which

direction is homeward.

He walks uptown a ways with a strange jerky stride, pausing

every once in a while to see whether there's a bus coming.

Suddenly Marty breaks into a dog-trot, then drops back into

the stiff stride as he approaches...

THE INTERSECTION OF THE GRAND CONCOURSE.

The corner near the bus stop is deserted. Marty stops, leans

against the pole of the bus stop sign.

Abruptly, he turns and walks uptown a little further.

SERIES OF INTERCUTS: Marty strides, walks, stops short, goes

to the curb desultorily, a few paces into the street, moves

back. The traffic moves by him. He stands in the wide street,

then with a gesture of magnificent expansiveness, he raises

his arm and calls out.

CLOSE-UP of Marty standing in the street, crying...

FADE OUT.

PILLETTI HOME, MARTY'S BEDROOM. DAY

Marty is in his trousers and T-shirt. He whistles as he

assembles his toilet articles for a shave. He starts out

toward the living room, still whistling. Bright sunlight

pours through the curtains on his window.

SECOND FLOOR.

Marty's whistling accompanies him to the second floor where

he turns into the bathroom. CAMERA ANGLES to include Mrs.

Pilletti's bedroom, disclosing her wearing an old faded

batiste kimona, puttering around her room and cleaning. As

Marty's toneless tune reaches her, Mrs. Pilletti turns her

head and stares off, listening.

THOMAS AND VIRGINIA'S APARTMENT. DAY.

Catherine, in the living room, is packing her meager but

neatly folded belongings into an old European carpet bag.

She has regained her stiff, mordant crustiness. The mild

WAIL of a baby can be heard.

BEDROOM.

The crowded bedroom is furnished in white modern. It is

cluttered by a baby's bassinet and other baby items. Virginia

sits on the edge of the bed, holding the baby, quieting it.

She is half-dressed, wearing her pajama top, a half-slip, no

stockings; her hair is still uncombed. Thomas slouches against

a chest of drawers, in morning semi-deshabille. He is

obviously sick with guilt. Virginia looks anxiously at her

husband then to the baby in her arms.

He pulls his sock on angrily, then lets his leg fall back to

the floor and just sits, one sock on, one sock in his hand.

He looks sullenly in the direction of his wife.

He stands, then becomes aware he has to put on his other

sock. He sits down again and pulls the second sock on.

Virginia has had a hot reply in her mouth, but she forces it

back. She rocks the baby a little.

Thomas has risen, a slim, dark, unsettled young man in

undershirt and trousers, holding his shoes in one hand. He

starts toward the...

FOYER.

Thomas strides down the little foyer. He turns and looks

into the living room. He watches his mother packing strange

brown parcels into her bag.

The old lady nods brusquely.

LIVING ROOM.

Thomas stands with his head bowed to hide the tears he feels

sweeping into his hot eyes. Then he returns to his bedroom

in his stocking-feet, carrying his shoes.

BEDROOM.

Thomas comes in just as Virginia bends over the bassinet,

having gotten the baby back to sleep. Thomas cries to her in

a furious whisper.

He turns from her, sits down on the bed miserably angry with

the world, his wife, his mother, himself. The baby begins to

whimper again. Virginia turns wearily to her husband.

MARTY'S HOME, FRONT PORCH. DAY.

A small procession consisting of Thomas carrying his mother's

carpet bag, his mother carrying small paper-wrapped bundles,

and Virginia holding the baby comes across the front hedge.

Thomas leads the parade with a muffled sorrow. They turn up

the porch to the front door. Virginia remains in the small

front yard. She is miserable.

PILLETTI HOME, DINING ROOM. DAY.

Mrs. Pilletti is dressed in hat and coat and all set to go

to mass. She is bent over the dining room table piling the

breakfast dishes and crumbing the table. She looks up as

Thomas comes in carrying his mother's bag. Aunt Catherine is

right behind him. Beyond the porch, we can see Virginia

walking the baby around outside.

A burst of spirited song soars from upstairs. Mrs. Pilletti,

Aunt Catherine and even Thomas pause to look up in the

direction of the voice.

HALLWAY/STAIRWAY.

Marty descends the stairs whistling. He carries his jacket

over his arm. He makes some final adjustments to his tie.

DINING ROOM.

Alert to Marty's mood, Mrs. Pilletti, Aunt Catherine and

Thomas stand, waiting for him to join them downstairs.

He abruptly goes out into the living room and onto the front

porch.

Marty has followed Thomas out into the living room.

Thomas goes out the door onto the porch. Marty stands in the

open doorway. He looks out into the warm sunshine in the

front yard.

He goes out into the yard to Virginia. He is as gay as a

bird. He takes the baby from Virginia's arms, holds it high

up above him.

Thomas hasn't been listening to Marty and crosses quickly to

Virginia.

Marty comes up to them, holding the baby.

Thomas has been trying to listen to Marty, but his thoughts

are all with his own problem. He whirls on Virginia.

The baby in Marty's arms has started to cry a little.

The baby starts to cry again. Thomas turns to his wife.

Virginia hurries over and takes the crying baby from Marty's

arms, walks around comforting the child. Thomas turns back

to Marty.

Marty is a little taken aback by Thomas's frontal assault.

Marty stands, watching the young couple yakking at each other.

The little baby starts to cry again.

KITCHEN.

The two old sisters sit at the kitchen table, two untouched

cups of coffee in front of them.

Catherine nods bleakly.

Marty comes in from the living room, a little down after his

session with Thomas and Virginia.

Marty goes to the sink to get himself a glass of water. He

examines a piece of plaster that has fallen from the ceiling.

Mrs. Pilletti exchanges a brief frightened glance with her

sister.

She sends another frightened look at her sister and follows

Marty out into the living room.

MARTY'S PORCH.

Marty, his mother, Thomas and Virginia with the baby file

down the porch to the street on their way to church. Marty

and his mother are both troubled. The anger has left both

Thomas and Virginia, but they are both silent. At the far

end of the alleyway, as they reach the street, Virginia puts

her free arm through her husband's elbow. Thomas looks briefly

at her and they exchange a look of commiseration. Everyone

turns and disappears off into the street.

CHURCH.

A HIGH, WIDE ANGLE SHOT of the church establishes that stage

of Sunday morning between the nine and ten o'clock masses.

People flock around the doors of the church.

INSIDE THE CHURCH.

The parishioners are making their ways to the door. A few

silent penitents still kneel here and there in the long empty

rows of pews. The large, almost empty church is filled now

with organ MUSIC.

Both Marty and his mother seem a little depressed as they

stand at the doorway just inside the church, as the nine

o'clock mass people flow out, and the first of the ten o'clock

mass people file in.

A nearby kneeling penitent looks disapprovingly at Mrs.

Pilletti and shushes her. The mother nods briefly.

Marty frowns but remains silent.

It's Mrs. Pilletti's turn to frown. A silence. She turns

back to Marty.

Marty turns, on the verge of anger with his mother.

A silence hangs between them.

The kneeling woman shushes them again. By now the nine o'clock

worshipers have filed out, and Marty joins the flow of ten

o'clock people moving in. His mother turns back to him again.

They continue down the aisle of the church.

BAR. DAY.

An hour later, the after-mass CROWD is there. It's a little

more crowded than weekdays. A WOMAN with a glass of beer in

one hand, rocks a baby carriage with the other.

Marty enters the bar, moves along, ad-libbing "Hello" to

someone at the bar, gets the attention of Lou, the bartender.

He turns away from the bar annoyed, notes Ralph, sitting

alone in one of the booths, reading the Sunday comics. Marty

ambles over to him.

The abruptness of the question rather startles Marty. It is

not an expression he would normally associate with an evening

with Clara.

He feels very ill at ease and a little guilty for defending

himself.

He moves back down the bar and goes out into the street.

MARTY'S HOUSE, DINING ROOM. AFTERNOON

Marty is seated at the dining room table. He has removed his

jacket, tie and shirt, even his shoes, and is making himself

comfortable over a late Sunday lunch. With him are Angie and

Joe, the Critic. Lounging in a chair but not at the table is

Leo.

Angie reaches over to Marty's plate and filches a piece of

rissole, evidently annoying Marty.

This doesn't prevent him from filching a second piece of

rissole.

Marty looks down at his watch, then stands and starts for

the phone, sitting on a chest of drawers at the other end of

the room.

Joe, having finished his dissertation on Mickey Spillane, is

now studying another girlie magazine. He proffers an opened

page to Marty, who stands over by the phone.

Joe closes the magazine.

He turns away sulking. Marty doesn't pick up the phone but

returns to his seat, upset.

Marty lowers his head. Over this, Joe's VOICE DRONES on.

CAMERA ANGLE HOLDS on Marty looking down, as Joe's VOICE

continues.

SNYDER APARTMENT. NIGHT

CLOSE ON television screen. Ed Sullivan is on, indicating

the time is a little after half past seven. CAMERA PULLS

BACK, disclosing Clara, Mr. and Mrs. Snyder in their living

room. Apparently the Sullivan show is very funny at the

moment, for the television audience roars with laughter.

CAMERA MOVES IN CLOSE ON Clara. Another ROAR of LAUGHTER

from the television that Clara watches, although her eyes

are flooded with tears, several of which have already traced

wet paths down her cheeks. Another ROAR of laughter.

PILLETTI HOME, DINING ROOM. NIGHT.

Marty, Mrs. Pilletti and Catherine are eating silently at

the table. Catherine reads an Italian newspaper as she eats.

Suddenly he pauses, sharply aware of the repetition in his

life. Mrs. Pilletti is also aware of it.

They eat silently a moment.

187TH STREET. BAR. NIGHT.

CLOSE-UP of Marty leaning against the wall in front of the

bar. A group of young men lounge about, killing time.

Angie, Leo and Joe are among them. There are perhaps four or

five other young MEN, loosely divided into two groups. The

group that concerns us has Marty and the others mentioned

and GEORGE, a young man in a sport jacket.

CLOSE-UP of Marty, his head down, his eyes closed. The group

continues their dialogue back and forth. Their VOICES can be

heard as Marty's head slowly comes up.

A fury rises in Marty's face. He cries out at them.

CAMERA ANGLES over to the others who, at this outburst, stare

at Marty astounded.

He has said this in tones so loud that it attracts the

attention of the few PEOPLE on the street. A little

embarrassed by the attention he's getting, he turns, opens

the door to the bar, and goes into it.

After a stunned moment, Angie hurries after him.

INSIDE THE BAR.

Marty marches the length of the room toward the phone booths

in the rear. CAMERA ANGLES to disclose Angie right behind

him.

Marty is about to enter one of the phone booths, but he stops

as Angie hurries up to him.

Marty pauses, one foot in the booth.

Marty has been fishing in his pocket for his address book.

He opens it to its proper page and steps decisively into the

phone booth.

Nearby, Angie prowls around outside the booth. The booth

door is open. Marty starts to dial. A hush fills the room

except for the CLICKING of the telephone dial.

INSIDE THE PHONE BOOTH.

The look of fury has drained from Marty's face. He holds the

receiver to his ear, glances out toward Angie. CAMERA ANGLES

to include Angie.

Still smiling at his very private joke, Marty returns to the

phone, and after a fraction of a second...

As Angie looks miserable, and Marty slowly reaches out and

pushes the phone booth door shut, and continues to talk into

the phone, we very slowly...

FADE OUT.

