7. THE DOCTOR'S CABIN - NIGHT

Dr STEPHEN MATURIN, a keen naturalist, sits at his desk

surrounded by specimen jars, books and scientific

instruments.

[   ]

TOM PULLINGS glances in as he moves past the cabin door, but

the doctor, placing weights on some finely-balanced

structure, is too engrossed to notice him.

8. MIDSHIPMAN'S BERTH - NIGHT

In the quarters for the 'young gentlemen', boys trained from

an early age to become officers, four lads play at marbles.

PETER CALAMY (16) and LORD BLAKENEY (13) are arguing about

whether a marble was inside outside the circle as their berth

mates BOYLE (15) and WILLIAMSON (14) wait for the game to

resume.

The lamp moves on, illuminating a fifth midshipman, much

older than the rest. This is HOLLOM, aged 24. He's a

sensitive-looking fellow, idly strumming a guitar, glancing

up briefly as TOM PULLINGS passes.

9. GUN-DECK - NIGHT

By the galley stove at the forward end of the gun-deck a few

of the foremast hands enjoy a last smoke and a mug of grog.

Faster Doudle passes his mug to Higgins who guzzles it down

greedily

One man, BECKETT, sits shirtless while another, AWKWARD

DAVIES, brow furrowed with concentration, tattoos the first

link of what will be a great chain round BECKETT's waist.

JOE PLAICE, at 45 one of the oldest men on board, stops in

the middle of a story as PULLINGS passes, everyone knuckling

their foreheads in deference to the officer.

10.    BETWEEN TWO GUNS - NIGHT

Boys no more than eight or nine years old play a game of

'jacks' with some sheep bones. ADDISON, RYE and SWIFT are the

powder-monkeys who ferry powder from the hold to the guns

during action.

11.    BERTH DECK - NIGHT

A hundred hammocks swing like strange pods, close packed

under the immense beams. Most of the occupants are already

asleep: here an arm, there a lolling head

On the bosun's command, the last of the off-duty men climb

into their hammocks.

The last lights are extinguished. Only PULLINGS' lamp

remains, moving up the ladder to...

12.   WEATHER DECK - NIGHT

The uppermost or weather deck consists of two parallel

gangways linking the forecastle (forward) to the quarterdeck

(aft).

The lead is dropped from the bows. As PULLINGS walks aft to

the quarterdeck as each man lets go his coils of the deep sea

line.

Somewhere a bell sounds and the silent figures of the watch

call from their stations.

Over this, the splash of the lead and the repeated cry of

"Watch there! Watch!"

13.     QUARTERDECK - NIGHT

Pullings has joined the officer of the watch, 2nd Lieutenant

MOWETT, a short tubular man in his early 20s.

JACK climbs up a ladder and we see him properly for the first

time: a heavy-set man in his thirties, thick blonde hair

clubbed at the back

At the binnacle, by the ship's great wheel. The helmsman,

BONDEN - a London cockney with a boxer's face - gives JACK

their current course.

JACK nods, then moves to the gunwale with PULLINGS. Jack

sniffs the air and speaks in a low voice.

The pun on the name of their ship was unintentional, but JACK

lets out a great hoot of laughter, shattering the tense,

expectant silence.

He leaves, still laughing. Those on the quarterdeck are more

amused by JACK's unique sense of humour than by the feeble

joke itself.

13A    INT. STEPHEN'S CABIN

Jack looks around the door

He enters. Stephen has wired together the thorax of a bird's

skeleton and is suspending lead weights from it

Jack bends forwards into the candle-light, sharing his

friends keen interest in this strange assembly

Jack straightens, moving with care between the bottled

specimens, open books and brass measuring instruments

14.     WIDE ON THE SURPRISE - NIGHT

Time passes. The fog intensifies. White coils of mist drift

and eddy over the glassy sea, RUN FINAL TITLES as the ship

moves slowly through the night.

15-16   (ADDED TO SC 12)

17.     IN THE GREAT CABIN, LATER - NIGHT

The chronometer ticks. The coffee-pot swings on its gimbals.

JACK lies awake in his hanging cot. Finally he gives up

trying to sleep.

18.     ON THE QUARTERDECK - NIGHT

JACK on deck again.

A hint of daylight to the east. The mist beginning to shift

as an offshore breeze picks up.

BONDEN is still at the wheel.

JACK takes his advice and goes below again.

19. - THE SHIP (TIMELAPSE)

The sky a shade paler. A wind coming up.

20.    ON THE STARBOARD GANGWAY - DAWN

The lookout, VINCENT, peers into the mist.

HOLLOM, the oldest of the midshipmen, whose watch it now is,

appears at his shoulder.

HOLLOM peers out into the fog, then turns.

Midshipman CALAMY comes running forward.

Young CALAMY takes the lead, scrambles into the chains at the

bow of the ship and throws out the lead line.

HOLLOM takes up a telescope and searches through the eddies

of fog.

Over HOLLOM's P.O.V. we can hear CALAMY sounding the depth.

Hollom folds his telescope

CALAMY, unconvinced, checks through his own telescope

CALAMY ignores him, still scanning

21.   TELESCOPE POV

The telescope pans. A dark shape in the distance. The mist

parts a little. A ship. Coming straight toward them.

Close on CALAMY as he turns to camera, screaming -

22. JACK'S SLEEP CABIN

JACK instantly awake, piling out of his bed, still dressed.

23.     BERTH-DECK - DAWN

A drum blazes as the off-duty watch tumble out of their

hammocks and run to their battle stations.

24. COCKPIT, ORLOP DECK

Rows of wicked-looking instruments are hastily thrown on the

operating table by PADEEN, MATURIN's servant - saws,

retractors and knives glistening in the lamp-light.

DR. MATURIN hurries in blinking sleep out of his eyes as he

ties on his black apron - behind him, HIGGINS, the assistant

surgeon.

25.   POWDER MAGAZINE

Little ADDISON and his team of powder-monkeys run with their

boxes of gunpowder to the...

26. GUN-DECK

As LAMB, NAGEL and the other carpenters bash down cabin

partitions, transforming the entire gun-deck into a single

continuous space, from the bows to the Captain's Great Cabin

in the stern.

As the crews swarm about their guns, grotesque shadows are

thrown on the walls and ceiling by the numerous battle-

lanterns arriving to illuminate the scene.

27. WEATHER-DECK

JACK and PULLINGS stride the length of the deck toward the

bow [ ] . They pass crews manning the carronades while

others swing the ship's small boats out and over the side to

be towed behind the ship.

28. FORECASTLE

JACK and PULLINGS join HOLLOM.

CALAMY points forward and a little to the left of the

Surprise's bow.

JACK and PULLINGS stare through telescopes into the fog,

which is beginning to lift. JACK lowers his telescope.

JACK steps closer to the bow, and again lifts his telescope.

29. TELESCOPE P.O.V

A slow pan across the sea, past a darker patch of fog. What

was that? The lens pans back toward the darker area to see a

series of flashes.

30. CLOSE ON JACK

He turns and shouts to the crew -

His words are underscored by a series of distant explosions,

followed by a deep rumble, then a tearing, howling sound.

31. ANGLE ON THE SKY

Chain shot and grape, bar and canister shriek through the

air. A blizzard of iron.

32. ON THE DECK

The crew hit the deck, the last to drop is BONDEN hanging

grimly to the wheel.

33. MIDSHIPMAN BLAKENEY

Close, as he tries to bury himself in the deck timbers.

34. DELETED

35. DELETED.

36. QUARTERDECK

The broadside hits the bows and a cloud of splinters and

metal scythes the length of the deck at head height. This is

rapidly followed by billowing smoke from a small fire now

burning on the forecastle.

CALAMY is working at putting the fire out as JACK issues a

stream of orders.

He pulls a gold watch from his pocket and checks the time.

36A.   GUN DECK

Hollom is nervously supervising a gun crew which includes

DAVIES and his mates.

The men work as a team, largely ignoring Hollom's hesitant

instructions. The shot rack is empty

37.   QUARTERDECK (CONTD)

As red-coated marines led by Captain HOWARD climb into the

rigging JACK calls to his clerk -

An anxious TOM PULLINGS appears.

JACK calls to his sailing master, ALLEN.

ALLEN purses his lips. He knows what he's doing and slightly

resents the instruction

38. P.O.V. ENEMY SHIP

She's crossing their bows, about a mile distant.

39. ON DECK

PULLINGS is racing up the larboard gangway to the forecastle,

past men stacking hammocks as blast protection.

40. ON THE FORECASTLE

Gun-captains stand ready, the slow-match burning in the tubs.

The little drummer's huge eyes are fixed on PULLINGS' face.

The ship rolls.

The drum-roll is all but drowned by the blast of the guns.

The smoke clears, the gunners look on baffled as their balls

bounce harmlessly off the side of the enemy ship.

As the enemy's murderous long guns run out again.

41.   WIDE ON THE ENEMY SHIP

Her French ensign clearly visible as she swings broadside on

to the approaching Surprise - again her side lights up in a

series of red flashes.

42.   IN THE COCKPIT

By the dim light of a battle-lantern STEPHEN struggles to

hold a wounded man on the table, his feet slipping in pools

of blood on the deck.

The slightly hung-over HIGGINS reaches for the sand bucket

and is thrown over by the awful jarring shock as the

Acheron's third broadside hits home.

43.   IN THE GREAT CABIN -

The Captain's crockery smashes to the deck. KILLICK, cursing

freely, stows what he can.

44.   IN THE ORLOP

Shards of timber implode, followed by a great spout of water

knocking the massive AWKWARD DAVIES sideways as he runs for

the ladder carrying two cannon-balls.

A second explosion, a second jet of water and DAVIES, finding

his feet, starts yelling for the carpenter.

45. STAIRS

Follow DAVIES as he runs up to the gun-deck with the shot

under his arms past the powder-monkeys ADDISON and SWIFT,

canisters of gun-powder slung over their shoulders, then he

sees MR. LAMB, the carpenter.

As LAMB dives for the ladder.

46.   ON THE GUN-DECK

DAVIES arrives to find a gaping hole opposite where his own

gun once stood. Its crew lie scattered, horribly wounded or

dead.

The dismounted gun and twelve pound shot are rolling around

dangerously. HOLLOM, the sole survivor, is backed against

the bulkhead, cradling an injured arm.

CALAMY emerges from the smoke, meets DAVIES's horror-struck

gaze and takes command.

HOLLOM sits immobilized by fear. CALAMY grabs the poulterer,

JEMMY DUCKS, who has been rescuing the ship's goat, Aspasia.

The ship heels as she turns.

Midshipman BLAKENEY, Calamy's rival in the game of marbles,

turns to see the dismounted gun rolling free. He throws a

hammock net under it, stopping its roll before it crushes

CALAMY against the bulkhead.

CALAMY shoots him a brief look of gratitude and runs aft.

BLAKENEY carries on shouting to the powder-monkeys -

47.   HULL OF THE SURPRISE

In the great jagged hole on the gun-deck where the gun was

destroyed, JACK stands framed, a wrathful soot-stained

figure. He glances back at his men, hunched and ready,

itching to fire.

48. WIDE ON THE BATTLE

to see the two ships about to pass abreast, the Surprise

heading south as it were, the enemy ship, north.

The French vessel is clearly the bigger ship, and from both

come the sounds of shouted orders and the thunder of drums.

They will pass broadside to broadside, 500 yards apart.

49.   GUN-DECK, SURPRISE

JACK watching the enemy, judging the moment.

The great guns go off all together. The cannons leaping back

between their crews. JACK snatches a powder-monkey, ADDISON,

out of the way of the lethal recoil.

50.   QUARTERDECK

Smoke clears to reveal holes in the enemy's foretopsail, a

bowline hanging loose, but again many of her balls have

failed to penetrate the enemy timbers.

His question coincides with a third full broadside from the

Frenchman. The Surprise's wheel shattered. BONDEN thrown

aside, MR. WATT jerked back to the taffrail, the mizzenmast

hit.

A rope sheers and JOE PLAICE is smacked on the skull by a

swinging boom.

Midshipman BLAKENEY, running up on deck, goes to help PLAICE

and is struck down by a flying splinter - a shocking wound to

his upper right arm.

51. COMPANIONWAY

JACK is half-way up the ladder when he falls, scored across

the forehead by a musket-ball.

Eyesight blurred. Hearing gone. He is dimly aware of small

arms cracking above his head, and someone trying to lift him.

JACK puts a hand to his bleeding forehead and drags himself

back up the ladder.

52. IN THE TOPS

A furious exchange of fire between CAPTAIN HOWARD's marines

and the sharpshooters in the enemy's rigging.

Howard, a big red-faced man, is in his element, laughing

madly every time he scores a hit.

53. QUARTERDECK

JACK emerges into bloody chaos: screams of the wounded all

around, the enemy ship moving astern in mist and gun-smoke.

He wipes blood from his eye as he raises his telescope.

54/55.   TELESCOPE P.O.V.

As the ship passes, her name is visible on the transom -

Acheron.

Jack lowers his telescope. Pullings' expression spells

catastrophe

56.   STERN OF THE SURPRISE

Grim-faced, JACK hobbles to the shattered taff-rail, sees

BONDEN soaked, having climbed down onto the stern-post.

58. COCKPIT

STEPHEN, up to his armpits in blood, operating on a wounded

man, looks up to see three more seriously injured men

arriving.

He pauses, aware of some change.

57.   GUN-DECK

Spirals of drifting smoke. Blackened bleeding men, their guns

pointing at nothing

59.   HIGH SHOT

The fog has rolled back, like a great curtain, to reveal the

two frigates.

The badly damaged Surprise, drifting rudderless.

The Acheron, most of her sails intact, beginning the turn

which will put her in position to finish off the Surprise.

60. QUARTERDECK

JACK is joined by ALLEN as the enemy vessel starts crossing

their wake.

All eyes on Jack, poised on the brink of awful defeat.

JACK looks from the wall of fog to the three little boats

they are towing astern.

61.   STERN OF THE SURPRISE

Sudden feverish activity, running and shouting as men

scramble down into the boats. DAVIES settles himself beside

NAGEL in the cutter, turning to look at the approaching

Acheron.

His P.O.V.: puffs of smoke from its bow-chasers.

62.   STERN OF SURPRISE

Gouts of water from the enemy gunfire rise not fifty yards

from them, acting as little needed encouragement for the

boats to get clear of the stern and pull around towards the

bows as....

64.   MAINMAST/FOREMAST

Men scramble up the ratlines, and through the shattered

rigging.

65.   THE GREAT CABIN

Two long brass nine-pounders set up through the open windows

of the Captain's day cabin, open fire on the approaching

Acheron.

65A. MAINMAST

WARLEY, captain of the maintop, directs his men about the

mare's nest of rigging, getting a tattered top-sail to fill

with what little breeze there is.

66. QUARTERDECK

Through PULLINGS' telescope: the enemy ship coming straight

at them, her guns now getting the range of the Surprise.

67.   ANGLE ON THE QUARTERDECK

Crewmen furiously at work cutting the ropes securing the guns

on the quarterdeck.

68.   ANGLE ON THE STERN

Water spouts from the pumps, while at the same time the

quarterdeck guns tumble into the ocean.

(NOTE: they only abandon guns on the quarterdeck, not their

main armament on the gun-deck.)

69. FORECASTLE

JACK races to the bows. Towlines strain as the three small

boats pull the great ship toward the curtain of fog and

cloud. He yells to the straining oarsmen -

70.   ANGLE FROM THE BOATS

The men heave on their oars, faces bathed in sweat, the

towlines taut behind them, dragging the Surprise toward the

safety of the fog-bank.

71. WIDE

to see the Surprise slipping into the cover of fog and low

cloud, only her top masts visible, before they too disappear.

72. QUARTERDECK

JACK joins his officers looking back into the white-out, in

the direction of the enemy.

ALLEN hurries toward the bows, as behind them the fog is

momentarily illuminated by flashes of gunfire from their

pursuer.

73.   THE LEADING JOLLY BOAT

CALAMY, in the prow of the jolly-boat, sees ALLEN on the

ship, signalling the turn to eastward.

CALAMY signals to BONDEN in the stern of the jolly-boat.

One side stops rowing and the boat turns.

74.   THE SURPRISE

A low angle, the ship coming slowly toward us.

Beyond, the rowers strain at their oars, the great ship

rearing out of the mist above them, as though carried on

their backs.

75.   QUARTERDECK OF THE SURPRISE

Somewhere astern and to the left JACK can hear shouting on

the Acheron. Flashes of cannon fire, directed away from them.

76 MASTS OF THE SURPRISE, (TIMELAPSE) - NIGHT

The tortured sounds of exhausted men rowing as skeins of mist

drift away to reveal a dim, yellow moon. On the horizon the

battered ship in silhouette, lines stretching ahead to her

three small boats.

77 QUARTERDECK OF THE SURPRISE - NIGHT

Some of the wreckage has been cleared aside, the wounded

moved below. We can hear their moans, and the constant

creaking of the bilge pumps.

JACK and his officers scan the moonlit sea through

telescopes.

JACK's telescope POV: A long slow pan along the dark horizon.

JACK collapses his telescope.

78 IN THE JOLLY BOATs. - NIGHT

The rowers slump forwards in their seats, their hands raw and

crabbed.

79 STAIRWELL - NIGHT

JACK moves down a ladder past LAMB coming up from below,

soaking wet and exhausted with his mate Nagel.

The constant creaking and sloshing of the pumps becomes

louder as he continues down past men handing up food and

powder from the flooded levels below.

81. SICK-BAY

Stephen, his face spattered with blood, is adjusting the wick

of a lantern when Jack arrives beside him

He notices the gash on Jack's forehead

STEPHEN raises his lantern to reveal groaning bloodstained

men close-packed in the gloom.

Together they make the rounds, passing men propped upright by

their mates, pale with shock or tense with pain, some

struggling to breathe, some barely alive.

JACK clasps hands, whispers encouragement.

A bandaged head swims into the glow of the lamp, streaked

with blood and deeply unconscious.

Moving on to another barely recognizable face: young

Blakeney, pale and sweaty, breathing hard from the pain and

the blood loss.

JACK looks at STEPHEN, whose expression is grim, but he says

nothing, steering Jack forward to the foot of the ladder

where they can speak more privately

Jack nods, defeat weighing heavily, and makes to go. Stephen

puts a restraining hand on his shoulder.

Jack submits meekly, and sits on a lower rung while Stephen

puts a bandage round his forehead

82.    THE GREAT CABIN - DAWN

Wan dawn light reflects off the ceiling onto the bloody,

bandaged officers, conducting an angry post-mortem as KILLICK

serves coffee.

MOWETT is trying to staunch a persistent nosebleed.

Jack enters, his head newly bandaged. He walks past the

seated officers and stands looking out through the stern

windows. The officers continue their conversation, though

their words are intended for Jack

Jack still has his back to them. He puts his hand in his

pocket and finds something there - the shattered fragments of

his gold pocket watch.

Jack finally turns.

An expectant hush. KILLICK is all ears, as he picks up the

coffee cups and places them carefully on a silver tray.

83.   OUTSIDE THE GREAT CABIN

KILLICK exits the cabin with the tray of coffee cups. As he

passes them to his mate, BLACK BILL -

84.     THROUGHOUT THE SHIP - DAWN

Word passes like lightning from the wounded in the orlop, to

the beak of the ship

85.     FORECASTLE - DAWN

A few of the old 'Surprises' have gathered for a smoke, all

of them men who've sailed with JACK before: Jittery alcoholic

Higgins, loyal Nehemiah Slade, sharp-faced tobacco-chewing

Faster Doudle, and the big Welshman Awkward Davies, still

shaken by the loss of his gun-crew.

86.     WAIST OF THE SHIP - NOON

The gratings are hauled aside and light floods down into the

gun-deck.

87.     GUN-DECK - DAY

Part of a huge tree-trunk - spare timber for repairs - is

manhandled by a dozen crewmen.

88.     QUARTERDECK - DAY

Crewmen labour at the capstan.

The huge log rises from below and hangs suspended from its

gantry. JACK shouts down from the quarterdeck -

89.   ABOVE JACK'S HEAD

Men are hanging in the rigging throwing down damaged sections

of rope.

90.     QUARTERDECK - DAY

JACK dodges the falling rope, moving back, past NAGEL and his

men who are cutting out damaged sections of the gunwale with

saws and adzes, prizing up decking and wrestling with the

wrecked steering mechanism.

91.     THE STERN - DAY

JACK looks down to where PULLINGS and others have lifted the

broken rudder from its hinges.

92.    WIDE SHOT - DAY

The ship swarming with men, cutting, splicing, hammering and

hauling. Every able-bodied soul hard at work.

93.    QUARTERDECK - DAY

An optimistic breeze has picked up, fluttering the tattered

ensign.

The deck is now sloping at a forty-five degree angle. KILLICK

hands a sandwich to Pullings who passes it down to JACK.

JACK smiles at this and bites into his sandwich.

To the uphill side, carpenters are erecting a scaffolding

over the side of the ship.

94.    THE SHIP - DAY

The ship's copper-plated keel is partly revealed as the men

clamber and slip about on the steeply-sloping side erecting

scaffolding. The tropical heat resounds with shouts, curses

and hammering.

95.    SIDE OF THE SHIP - DUSK

Carpenters working inside the scaffolding, are fitting new

sections of wood into the holes low in her hull.

The new piece of wood is an almost perfect fit. MR. LAMB

marks the places where it is jamming.

Then he begins to work on it with his rasp.

96.    UNDERWATER - DUSK

Among tropical fish, a diver, a Greek crewman, 'OLD

SPONGE' (father of YOUNG SPONGE) a hammer at his belt, plugs

a few smaller holes with hemp fibre, then surfaces to...

97.    THE SIDE OF THE CUTTER - DUSK

YOUNG SPONGE passes him a piece of lead and some nails and

OLD SPONGE dives again.

Our P.O.V. descending into the sea as...

98.    WAIST OF THE SHIP - NIGHT

Roaring flames, flying sparks, the clang of metal on metal. A

forge has been set up. Powder-monkeys sweat on the bellows.

The ship's blacksmith is churning out iron bolts, pintles and

gudgeons, which are snatched away by NAGEL with tongs and

thrown into a bucket of water to cool.

A few yards away, wood chips fly from LAMB's adze as the

ship's massive new stern post takes shape.

The new rudder is laid out flat, already cut to its final

shape and being strengthened with great nails and iron bands

which NEHEMIAH SLADE and AWKWARD DAVIES are nailing into

place.

The hammering travels through the ship to...

99.    THE SICK BERTH - NIGHT

BLAKENEY with his splinted arm jerks awake, feverish and

confused.

Blakeney looks around, disoriented and finds Calamy by his

side.

Trying to make light of it, though he fears BLAKENEY is

dying.

100.       SICK BAY, LATER - NIGHT

CALAMY has fallen asleep by BLAKENEY's side. He wakes to find

STEPHEN sniffing BLAKENEY's wound.

101.        THE COCKPIT - NIGHT

BLAKENEY is lowered onto the table, delirious. CALAMY holds

his head and PADEEN, MATURIN's giant manservant, his legs,

which are lashed together.

He tests the edge of his knife with his thumb.

CALAMY places the leather gag between BLAKENEY's teeth.

Padeen mumbles a Gaelic prayer. STEPHEN turns and grips

BLAKENEY shattered arm.

A sharp, grating noise as STEPHEN works out of shot, cutting

off the arm.

Close on STEPHEN, lips compressed, utterly focussed.

He puts down the bloody knife and reaches for the spatula in

the pail of hot tar.

BLAKENEY has not uttered a sound, though he is shaking

uncontrollably and his face is wet with tears. CALAMY has

tears in his eyes also.

STEPHEN finishes his work, breathing hard, a gentle smile to

BLAKENEY.

102.        SICK-BERTH - NIGHT

An exhausted CALAMY keeps vigil by BLAKENEY's cot. The boy

wakes, and looks for CALAMY in the darkness.

Then he realizes, with sudden horror, that it wasn't a dream

Blakeneys eyes brim with tears and he turns away

103.        MIZZEN TOPGALLANT - DAY

MOWETT stands in the cross-trees, making a final check on the

lashings round the new mizzen top. Below him the great work

is nearing completion, men swarming like ants over every part

of the hull.

MOWETT climbs down past FASTER DOUDLE who has one leg looped

through the shrouds and is splicing a rope with both hands

and his teeth.

Farther down, a patched sail is being furled up tight in its

gaskets.

Beyond that, at the base of the main-mast a fascinated group

of men have gathered to watch the Doctor trepanning JOE

PLAICE.

104.        BASE OF THE MAINMAST - DAY

STEPHEN's drill carves out a neat disc of bone to reveal a

purplish mass which he starts spooning from the cavity.

A small crowd of crewmen pause in their work, watching the

doctor with morbid fascination as he drops the purple stuff

in a dish.

Exposing them to view. Several of the crew move in for a

closer look. The armourer hands STEPHEN a flattened coin,

which he begins to screw in place over the cavity as the old

hands whisper his praises to the men who have never seen

Stephen at work.

105.           THE SURPRISE - DAY

A wind causes the ship to turn on its moorings, stirring

impatiently, like a racehorse ready to be off as...

106.           QUARTERDECK - DAY

...JACK jumps down from the mizzen ratlines.

107. ON DECK

Barefoot men are suddenly running to their stations, racing

above and below, running out along the bowsprit, up the

ratlines, along the yards.

A small group, supposed to be assisting Hollom, are

contrasting slow off the mark

The men he is addressing, shoot him a look of distaste which

unsettles Hollom slightly, then they assist him pulling on a

rope

108.       QUARTERDECK - DAY

109.           WAIST OF THE SHIP - DAY

Men strain on the capstan bars.

110.           BOWS - DAY

The anchor bursting up out of the sea.

111.           MASTS OF THE SURPRISE - DAY

The shrouds darken with climbing figures, framed against the

sun.

112.        QUARTERDECK - DAY

HOLLAR staring up as the sails unfurl and fill with wind.

Men slide down ropes from high amongst the shrouds, then

swing out and drop down to the deck like monkeys, pulling

ropes and sails tight with the weight of their bodies.

113.        WIDE SHOT - DAY

The ship spreading its wings. A sudden cracking of canvas as

she turns and runs directly downwind.

114.        QUARTERDECK - LATE AFTERNOON

The sun has sunk lower. BONDEN, solid as the rock of

Gibraltar is back at the helm, the wind stronger and directly

behind.

BOYLE heaves the log clear of the ship's side. The log line

races out on its reel. BOYLE checks the run, pulls the pin.

JACK makes no comment but the news seems to please him.

115.        CLOSE TO THE WATER - DUSK

The great hull powers past us.

116.   DELETED

117.        OUTSIDE THE GREAT CABIN - NIGHT

KILLICK prepares toasted cheese in his small serving-area.

From inside the cabin, the sound of a violin and a cello

tuning up. KILLICK glances irritably at the door and elbows

his mate, BLACK BILL.

118.    INSIDE THE GREAT CABIN

JACK and STEPHEN are both keen amateur musicians - JACK,

violin, STEPHEN cello.

As Stephen completes his tuning, Jack experiments with a

refrain.

He plays another riff

Jack corrects his A string, plays another few bars

He plays a short refrain

He plays another variation

Cello answers violin, as they hand it back and forth,

improvising freely now with an infinity of variations,

sometimes playing together, sometimes separately, suddenly

hitting it, the music soaring and continuing over

119.        A HIGH POINT OF VIEW, TIME LAPSE - DAY

The tiny ship on the vastness of the ocean. From its side,

cotton-wool puffs of smoke.

120.        GUN-DECK - SAME TIME

A rippling broadside, the crews sweating over their guns.

MOWETT timing the gap between each broadside.

Turning to BLAKENEY, who though much recovered, still looks

pale and a little unsure of himself.

BLAKENEY takes command of the gun. To one side CALAMY is in

charge of 'Beelzebub', on the other side HOLLOM is now

directing 'Sudden Death'.

Once again the orders are given, and the crews, now competing

with each other, go through the sequence: 'Out Tompions',

'Cast loose your guns', 'Cartridge. Ball. Prime. Run out your

gun. Prime. Aim. Stand clear... Fire!!'

121.        AND AGAIN - DUSK

As another broadside shakes the deck, STEPHEN hauls his

collecting net on board and empties out a glistening array of

sea creatures - shrimps, squid and minnows, glinting like

opals in the pink light.

122.        AND AGAIN - NIGHT

It's a race. JACK's orders are just a formality, the sequence

having become so automatic now.

Seconds ticking away on MOWETT's stopwatch, barrels float on

the sea a hundred yards out.

123.   THE OCEAN AT NIGHT

The black ship spouting tongues of flame, the water around

the target barrels erupting in great spouts.

124.   THE GUNPOWDER ROOM

Boom! Another splendidly coordinated broadside resounds

through the ship as the powder-monkeys come racing down

through the dreadnought screens to the magazine and back with

more cartridge.

For them too it's a race, little ADDISON just ahead of SWIFT,

RYE hot on his heels.

125.        STEPHEN'S CABIN - NIGHT

The sound of the guns is faint down here, at least when heard

from STEPHEN's perspective - his ears are stuffed with wax.

He is surrounded by his specimen bottles, and he looks from

his microscope to his ledger where he is documenting the

array of aquatic life-forms. He removes his ear-plugs, but

the noise of the guns is deafening and he hastily replaces

them.

126.        ON THE GUN-DECK - NIGHT

MOWETT watches the second hand of his stopwatch, glancing up

as he notes -

The concentrated fury of the men swabbing, ramming, heaving

in, heaving out, firing at a raft this time.

And he stops the watch as the first gun fires.

His voice is drowned by the firing of the other guns in close

succession entirely demolishing the raft, the sound mixing

with cheering and the frenzied hammering of Nagel and his

mates as the gun-deck partitions are cheerfully re-erected.

127.        IN THE GREAT CABIN - NIGHT

The table is dragged back into place and settings laid for

dinner.

JACK enters, his face flushed with victory.

KILLICK appears.

128.        MAIN DECK - NIGHT

The sky a great canopy of stars, the ship racing onwards

through the warm night.

Crew men and the recovering wounded have come up on deck. Now

they sit around in groups, supping their grog. Someone

produces a jaw-harp, someone else a drum.

A guitar is passed from hand to hand, stopping with BLACK

BILL who sings a ballad in an African dialect.

There's an effortless integration of race and rank, of age

and nationality - bonds forged by battle and hardship.

OLD SPONGE gets up and dances a Greek dance: obviously a

favorite among the crew. Cheering and cat-calls. Lanterns

coming up from below. More dancing, insults in many

languages, and a song.

129.        THE GREAT CABIN - NIGHT

The singing mixes with the end of a lively dinner given by

JACK for his officers, including a special guest, young

BLAKENEY.

Reactions around the table, glasses re-filled in

anticipation. MOWETT stands and declaims with a number of

precise airy gestures, like a conductor.

They raise their glasses -

Amid the laughter someone bumps Blakeney's stump. He winces,

then puts a brave face on it

The table goes quiet. BLAKENEY is wide-eyed, though partly

from his strenuous efforts to appear sober.

Amid the general agreement - 'Hear him, hear him', etc.

STEPHEN is noticeably silent.

[ ] Stephen joins on the toast, but JACK knows that his

friend deplores such overt patriotism and seeks to draw him

back in with a joke.

He points at a faint movement amongst the crumbs of a ship's

biscuit.

The table tenses with anticipation of one of the Captain's

'jokes'. STEPHEN concentrates.

He thunders with laughter, the rest joining in, breathless

with mirth, tears of laughter streaming down their faces

Then he too cracks a smile and joins in their laughter

130.        MAIN DECK - NIGHT

The crew continue with their own celebration.

The excitement penetrates JOE PLAICE's stupor. Never having

woken since the trepanning he suddenly opens his eyes and

speaks.

The men around him stare in amazement.

131. QUARTERDECK

The officers have appeared on deck with their coffee and

Stephen raises a hand in acknowledgment.

132.   IN THE RIGGING - NIGHT

Midshipmen CALAMY RYE and BOYLE are eating from a bag of

broken biscuits ('ships nuts') as they sit perched up in the

rigging.

On seeing JACK, they break into their own song.

133. QUARTERDECK

JACK pretends not to have heard, but he can't hide his smile.

Beside him in a chair sits BLAKENEY, his empty jacket sleeve

pinned to his front 'Nelson' style, laughing incredulously at

the older boys cheek.

From somewhere on the forecastle, WARLEY and his top-men

start singing.

The older midshipman, HOLLOM joins in, his fine voice soaring

effortlessly over the others, hijacking their roistering

ballad and converting it to something much more poignant.

His singing is appreciated by STEPHEN on the quarterdeck.

134.        IN THE WAIST - NIGHT

KILLICK and NAGEL are less than impressed with HOLLOM and

sing over him, led by ORRAGE the cook.

135.        OCEAN - NIGHT

The Surprise sailing away from us, the chorus drifting across

the darkness.

135a.   OCEAN. DAY

The colours are changing, from the rich hues of the tropics

to the cold muted colours of colder, more southerly climes.

Still the surprise sails on

136.        THE GREAT CABIN - DAY

Fingers trace a course down the east coast of South America.

Another, more detailed chart is placed on top of the first.

JACK finds their position and marks it with pencil. A knock

on the door. Officers and crew are now dressed according to

the change in climate

The door opens to reveal NAGEL and WARLEY carrying something.

A scale model of a ship, 15 inches long, perfect in every

detail. Jack takes it, delighted, the name picked out in gold

on the stern - Acheron.

He pulls a side off the model, exposing its construction.

He passes the model to ALLEN.

KILLICK enters.

KILLICK goes to get the bottles

JACK hunkers down to bring his gaze level with the ship, as

though studying its tiny occupants.

He taps the stern windows.

136b    SURPRISE QUARTERDECK DAY

The Surprise has stopped level with a Spanish merchantman,

which lies three hundred yards away, headed in the opposite

direction.

The two boats have hove to and are communicating by

megaphone, Stephen translating the Spanish captains words,

The Spanish captain, already making sail, waves and shouts a

greeting, which Stephen calls back to him.

137.        STEPHEN'S CABIN - NIGHT

Stephen is with Blakeney, re-bandaging the younger man's

stump. Blakeney looks away, his eyes moving over the doctors

collection of books, learned texts in French Spanish, Greek

and Latin

Blakeney bites his lip

139.         MAIN MAST - DAWN

The maintop captain, WARLEY, shouts to the deck, his breath

forming in the frosty air -

140.   GREAT CABIN/LADDER

JACK throwing on a heavy boat-cloak, running for the ladder,

KILLICK behind him trying to get a scarf about JACK's neck

and a cap on his head.

141.         THE RIGGING - DAWN

Follow JACK as he runs up the ratlines, over the futtock

shrouds, then up the topmast shrouds, finally arriving at the

very top of the mast, to join WARLEY and PULLINGS.

JACK takes the telescope.

142.   TELESCOPE P.O.V.

Just the tips of masts, the hull below the horizon.

Beyond the distant ship, a line of black clouds.

143.        RIGGING - DAWN

JACK and PULLINGS slide to the deck on parallel back-stays,

as careless as a couple of midshipmen.

144.        QUARTERDECK - DAWN

JACK shouting -

PULLINGS and HOLLAR bark out their orders. Men race to obey.

JACK steps up on the gunwale, spying out the distant ship.

BLAKENEY, nearby, rests his telescope on CALAMY's shoulder,

focussing with his left hand.

BLAKENEY goes below. Above, the topmen release more sail

which is tightened by the men on deck hauling on cables.

Those not working sit on a row along the windward gunwale,

like the crew of an ocean racing yacht, to counterbalance the

pull of the sails.

145.        WEATHER-DECK - DAY

Their speed is so great green seas are now sweeping the

forecastle. A man falls and rolls into the scuppers.

CALAMY heaves the lead and reads the log line, then shouts

back to JACK -

146.        THE SURPRISE - DAY

Heeled over under a great press of sail, her copper showing

as she clefts the waves.

147.        FORECASTLE - DAY

Lined up along the starboard rails, the crew look back at

their captain riding the ship like a charioteer, one eye

aloft on the creaking topmost spar.

He touches wood, just the same and looks at Joe Plaice who

gives a meaningful roll of his eyes.

Ahead, the bank of storm clouds loom gunmetal grey.

148.        GREAT CABIN - DAY

PULLINGS knocks and enters, with an anxious looking MR. LAMB,

with whom he has been arguing a point.

Both men accept this and leave.

149.        QUARTERDECK (TIMELAPSE) - DAY

The wind has increased considerably, the deck sloping like

the roof of a house, the masts bending like coach-whips.

PULLINGS and LAMB are looking up at the mizzenmast which is

making ominous creaks and groans.

JACK stares ahead to the darkening sky as they move across a

switchback landscape of massive rolling waves.

150.        OCEAN - DAY

Wide to see the two ships. The Surprise and the Acheron with

a mile of sea between them. It's like some great ocean race,

with neither prepared to take in canvas despite the appalling

conditions.

151.        QUARTERDECK - LATER, DAY

They are running fast before a dangerous, following sea: a

landscape of hills and valleys, the whole thing in terrifying

motion.

The forecastle now vanishes in foam with every plunge, rising

each time with water pouring over the waist and spouting from

her scuppers.

KILLICK comes up with the coffee pot inside his jacket. JACK

drinks from the spout, peering ahead into the murk. A wild

unruly part of him is loving this.

Above him, more top-men struggle up the rigging, with the

mast drawing crazy figure of eights on a rushing sky.

152.   BELOW DECKS

The dog watch are wolfing their food, mugs and dinner plates

sliding over the table. Crewmen walk up hill to the grog

barrel, down their ration and head up top again.

Since his injury, Joe Plaice's startlingly random

pronouncements have acquired the quality of an oracle.

153.   ON DECK

The wind rising from yell to shriek. Waves blown flat by it,

the ship travelling at a drunken sideways angle across a

raging expanse of white foam.

Four men on the wheel, lashed to it, with the air around them

full of water.

In the distance a tower of black rock on the rim of the sea,

distant rollers breaking against it and surging up to a

preposterous height.

JACK looks up at the great press of canvas as he paces the

quarterdeck, the officers glancing from the sails back to

JACK.

Men gratefully rush to the ratlines and begin climbing to the

masts.

STEPHEN staggers up onto deck. JACK calls to him, pointing at

the black rock.

STEPHEN stares across at the legendary Cape. He's struggling

with his pocket-glass when a lurch of the ship sends him

tumbling. As men help him below, WARLEY, the maintop captain

reports to the bosun.

HOLLOM looks desperate as he follows WARLEY up the ratlines

of the mizzen.

154.   MIZZEN TOPgallant MAST

WARLEY works frantically. He's out on the yardarm high above

the raging sea. He shouts for HOLLOM to join him, but HOLLOM

is still in the top, some twenty feet below, unable or

unwilling to climb any higher.

155.        THE SURPRISE - DAY

Wide to see the ship. WARLEY working on the swaying mizzen.

The bow swinging a couple of points further south.

156.        QUARTERDECK - DAY

Wood and rope straining as they wrestle to turn. Then a

tremendous crack as the mizzen-topmast splits and flies

backward into the sea, carrying WARLEY along with it.

Sail and cordage falling over the men at the wheel. A loose

block and tackle swinging murderously in the gale.

JACK fights free from the tangle of ropes as WARLEY vanishes

in the foam. The mizzenmast is acting as a sea-anchor

dragging the ship's head northwards toward the black rocks.

JACK grabs a speaking-trumpet as WARLEY briefly reappears.

Then to PULLINGS.

As crewmen scramble frantically into the rigging, JACK turns

back to see WARLEY desperately swimming toward the trailing

wreckage, his mates shouting encouragement over the howling

wind.

With sails reduced the ship perceptibly slows, but the

dragging wreckage is swinging the ship broadside on to the

waves.

PULLINGS runs to JACK, pointing to the trailing mass of ropes

and mast.

WARLEY still struggling to reach the wreckage but going under

with each wave. JACK, agonized, makes his decision.

AWKWARD DAVIES scrambles up the ladder with an axe, but loses

his footing and falls sprawling over the quarterdeck.

JACK grabs the axe and attacks the ropes. He's joined by

NAGEL who has run to assist before realizing that the man

overboard is his friend Warley.

NAGEL's face is a mask of horror, but he obeys Jacks orders

and starts chopping. He and Jack work shoulder to shoulder,

matching blow for blow [   ]

The prow keeps turning, wave after wave coming at right

angles to the ship.

157.        ON THE GUN-DECK - DAY

A hatch cover is torn off by the force of water, a sudden

mighty deluge pouring down into the lower levels drenching

the men and swamping the guns.

158.        QUARTERDECK - DAY

JACK and NAGEL [   ] keep hacking at the tangle of ropes.

Knocking chips off the railing in their urgency to cut free

the dragging mast.

Finally they succeed. The last of the ropes [ ] whips away,

the broken mizzen disappears aft and the ship swings

southward, away from the rocks.

The wreckage is swept away by the next wave, leaving WARLEY

struggling, his last chance of getting back to the ship gone.

Then another wave breaks over him and he is gone.

NAGEL is bereft. JACK lowers his head.

159.        OUTSIDE THE GREAT CABIN - NIGHT

KILLICK and BLACK BILL.

160.        THE GREAT CABIN - NIGHT

JACK sits at his desk. The model of the Acheron that WARLEY

helped make sits accusingly in front of him.

STEPHEN pours him a glass on wine, and one for himself.

JACK nods. Obviously the death still weighs on his

conscience. [ ]

He breaks off

Stephen hesitates, aware that he has to proceed carefully

He catches a steely glint in Jacks eye and breaks off.

160A MIZZEN-TOP

An icy wind whips at the men working on the temporary mizzen

mast.

Hollom, half way up the rigging is relaying instructions

between the men in the rigging and the men on deck

The new yard flails around on its pulley, bashing dangerously

against the mast. Almost claiming Nagel

161    QUARTERDECK

PULLING craning upwards. The topmen's shouted commands are

whipped away by the gale.

JACK joins him, still smarting from the conversation with

Stephen

162.        THE SHIP - DAY

Tacking southwards. The sun, a pale anaemic disc, gradually

disappearing behind layers of cloud.

The wind is a constant shrill whistle through the rigging, a

sound like some infernal drill which rises and falls but

never ceases.

163.        QUARTERDECK - DAWN

The sun rising in a clear sky which turns a sapphire blue.

White ice-islands lie all around them, some a pure, rosy

pink. Others bright ultramarine.

And still the wind howls, driving them further south.

MOWETT passes his telescope to STEPHEN MATURIN. As STEPHEN

studies some seals on an ice-beach, MOWETT launches into

verse, shouting against the wind -

He is interrupted by a bundle of guns clattering on board

from one of the small boats. They are followed by Mr Howard

clad in several thicknesses of sealskin and carrying a brace

of dead penguin.

164.   THE SHIP AT NIGHT

The ship scudding onwards, soundless at this distance, but

for the chilling high pitched whistle of the wind.

An iceberg passes in foreground, fantastic shapes of ice,

like a Gothic cathedral, sculpted by the elements.

165.         BERTH DECK - NIGHT

Hanging stoves provide some feeble warmth. Men huddle close

to them, their breath condensing, or lie shivering in their

bunks, unable to sleep for the cold.

HOLLAR appears with a lantern.

As the previous watch arrive downstairs, numb and dazed from

the cold, the next watch emerge from their hammocks and

dress. No-one speaks.

166.         THE GREAT CABIN - DAY

The officers take their places at dinner. Once again it's

penguin stew.

PULLINGS comes in, with an unexpected smile on his face and

whispers something to JACK.

The others seem to know what's going on, all except STEPHEN

who looks baffled.

JACK holds up his hand for silence. A series of creaks and

groans from the ship. The coffee pot tilts on its gimbals.

The officers give a slightly ragged cheer.

KILLICK comes in with his usual exasperated expression,

bearing a tray with a silver tureen lid on it.

He lays it on the table.

He whips off the lid to reveal a strange glutinous mass, a

pudding cut in the oddest of shapes. Everyone stands to get a

better look.

The mood is now taken over by the glee of recognition, as the

officers marvel over the pudding.

There's a tiny man-of-war made of icing, between the islands.

JACK picks it up in his spoon.

167.        OPEN OCEAN, DOLDRUMS - DAY

Slow pan over a glassy expanse of water. JACK's head suddenly

breaks the surface, close to camera.

As he swims he brings the Surprise into view. The ship is

utterly becalmed, wallowing in the swell, her sails hanging

limp. A 'painted ship upon a painted ocean'.

JACK swims around the ship, which currently presents a less

than warlike picture with washing hanging from every part of

the rigging.

He calls up to PULLINGS -

168.   QUARTERDECK

JACK comes aboard, takes a towel from KILLICK and looks about

him.

The men are holystoning the deck and polishing the

brightwork. They look thin and exhausted and burnt dark-brown

by the sun and wind.

169.   FORECASTLE

Killick is with NAGEL and others tarring the ratlines as he

looks back at HOLLOM, patrolling the gangway.

KILLICK indicates him with a tilt of the head.

HOLLOM sees them looking at him.

170.        THE SCUTTLEBUTT, SHIP'S WAIST - DAY

A marine sentry, TROLLOPE, stands guard by the ship's water-

barrel - the level is very low. STEPHEN ladles some water

into a phial.

STEPHEN straightening, irritated by the challenge.

171.         STEPHEN'S CABIN - DAY

In the gloom of his cabin, STEPHEN angles the mirror of his

brass microscope toward the window, and places a slide

containing a droplet of water under the lens.

172.         MAINMAST-TOP - DAY

JACK climbs into the top. He adjusts his telescope, studies

the horizon.

173.   JACK'S TELESCOPE P.O.V.

He pans across the empty sea.

174.   STEPHEN'S MICROSCOPE P.O.V.

An assortment of mobile, transparent micro-organisms rotating

wildly.

PADEEN takes a look, amazed then greatly amused.

175.         THE GREAT CABIN - NIGHT

Charts are spread all over the table, STEPHEN poring over

them when Jack comes in

JACK joins him.

STEPHEN considers their current position on the chart, the

tiny Galapagos Islands to the north and the vast emptiness to

the west of them.

176.        JOLLY BOAT - DAY

Disgruntled, under-slept men, in boats towing the ship.

NAGEL and DAVIES look back darkly at HOLLOM who sits in the

stern.

HOLLOM has heard this, as DAVIES intended, but he looks away

choosing to ignore them.

177.        FIGHTING TOP - DAY

A view from above of men towing the ship. Over this an

unpleasant scraping sound - chalk on slate.

STEPHEN is writing words on a slate then offering them to

BONDEN whom he is teaching to read.

STEPHEN nods and scratches another word on the board. As

BONDEN struggles to decipher it there's the sound of a musket

shot and a seabird falls out of the sky.

HOWARD, the captain of marines, reloads his smoking musket

laughing aloud.

HOWARD looks up towards them, a broad smile on his red moon

of a face.

178.        GUN-DECK - DAY

The midshipmen and powder-monkeys have assembled for weapons

practise, armed with cutlasses. CALAMY and WILLIAMSON divide

the group into two teams, choosing sides as for school-yard

football.

Little ADDISON joins CALAMY's side, trailing his too-large

sword. WILLIAMSON tosses a coin.

CALAMY's side retire to a defensive position made of tar

barrels at one end of the deck. From here they are suddenly

aware of Jack idly watching their mock-fight from the

quarter-deck

WILLIAMSON's team give a yell and charge at them.

It's serious fighting. Heads are struck, fingers are rapped.

BLAKENEY, trying gamely with his left arm but frustrated by

his own ineptitude, goes down under the rush of attackers.

CALAMY can't drag the bigger boy off. He whips a pistol out

of his belt and fires it at WILLIAMSON's head.

WILLIAMSON is blasted sideways, clutching his face and

yelling in pain. The other boys separate, horrified.

He helps BLAKENEY to his feet.

Angrily shaking free of him, he looks to where Jack stood,

but the captain is no longer watching.

179.        ON DECK - DAY

Tar bubbling under the heat of the sun. Cannons fizzing and

steaming as they are washed.

There's been a change of crews in the long-boats, and HOLLOM

and his men are now back on board. NAGEL is approaching from

one end of the narrow gang-way, HOLLOM from the other. NAGEL

pushes past, deliberately bumping HOLLOM, who stumbles,

clutching for the gunwale.

180.        QUARTERDECK - DAY

JACK sees this outrageous act of indiscipline and yells out -

181.        THE GREAT CABIN, DOLDRUMS - DAY

JACK stands behind his desk, brow like thunder. From outside

the sounds of the muster. HOLLOM stands in front of him,

twisting his hat between his hands.

HOLLOM looks at the floor, mumbles -

HOLLOM raises his head and looks at JACK, his eyes shiny with

tears and when he opens his mouth the words tumble out in a

rush.

KILLICK helps JACK on with his full-dress uniform.

KILLICK seems to endorse this by placing the captain's hat

emphatically on JACK's head.

Jack turns and strides out of the cabin, HOLLOM following

slowly after him.

182.        QUARTERDECK, DOLDRUMS - DAY

The entire crew has been mustered. The uniformed officers

line the quarterdeck as JACK reads from the Articles of War.

NAGEL looks at the deck.

DAVIES and KILLICK scowl across the deck at HOLLOM, who looks

wretched but says nothing.

NAGEL is spread-eagled to the grating, his hands tied.

The mate takes the leather cat-o-nine tails out of its red

bag.

183.        THE GREAT CABIN - DUSK

JACK stands alone, tuning his fiddle. No matter how much he

turns the peg the top string always sounds flat. He tunes

some more and breaks it.

184.        QUARTERDECK - DUSK

Every word is plainly audible to the men on watch, who

pretend to hear nothing.

185.        THE GREAT CABIN - DUSK

JACK is fitting a new string. Widen to reveal STEPHEN sitting

opposite with his cello.

Tightening the new string. The note escalating as he turns.

In stony silence Stephen puts down his cello bow and leaves

past Killick, who is lurking as always by the door.

186.        SCUTTLEBUTT - DUSK

Something disturbs the dark surface of the water as HOLLOM

dips the ladle and fills his cup.

A sense of someone moving up behind him. HOLLOM turns

abruptly. It's the marine sentry, moving in the shadows. He

stares at HOLLOM as he backs away toward the ladder and

hurries below.

187.        BERTH DECK - DUSK

To reach his quarters he is obliged to walk the length of the

berth deck, past HOWARD obsessively cleaning his pistol,

another man whittling with a knife, DAVIES adding another

link in the tattooed chain about BECKETT's middle.

No-one speaks as HOLLOM runs the gauntlet of their stares,

acutely aware of his own breathing. It now seems universally

to be held that he is the author of all the ship's

misfortune.

Nagle pointedly turns his back, the scars from the flogging

gleaming wetly in the lamplight

Hollom's breath quickens. He stumbles on someone's dunnage,

almost trips but is caught before he falls. It's one of

NAGEL's mates.

188.        MIDSHIPMAN'S BERTH - DUSK

HOLLOM comes in, wild-eyed and goes to his berth, breathing

hard. CALAMY, BLAKENEY & BOYLE look up from a tense game of

cards.

HOLLOM shakes his head miserably, hyperventilating.

CALAMY glares at BLAKENEY.

189.   INT STEPHEN'S ROOM - DUSK

A shot from the deck above.

STEPHEN looks up from his book "Di Consolazione Philosophae".

Then the sound of bare feet approaching, followed by a knock

at the door.

Its Joe Plaice, looking agitated.

190.        GANGWAY - DUSK

STEPHEN and PLAICE stride along to where the marine captain,

HOWARD, peers down into the water with one of his men.

STEPHEN moves to the rail, looks out.

On the glassy sea, a smudge of blood and some ripples

STEPHEN stares back down at the ripples spreading over the

glassy sea.

191.        THE SURPRISE - NIGHT

Wide, on the troubled ship, small yellow patches of light

visible from the gun-ports.

192.        BELOW DECKS - NIGHT

The men are lying in their hammocks when, from somewhere

outside, there comes an ungodly howling. It stops, then comes

again, exactly human in its pitch.

The crew look at one another. This is like no sound they've

ever heard.

The howling stops then comes again, from another direction.

193.          THE GREAT CABIN, EXTERIOR - NIGHT

KILLICK and BLACK BILLY listening.

194.          QUARTERDECK - NIGHT

JACK comes up from below.

He looks about at the terrified faces of the crew. The

wailing sound now rises to a shriek, as STEPHEN joins the

group.

The crew overhear this and pass it among themselves as

another anguished howl fills the night.

A glance along at HOWARD on the gangway, as terrified as

anyone.

195.        WIDE ON THE SHIP - NIGHT

Three flares soar and burst with a ghostly glow, making a

pool of blue light around the ship, the sound continuing to

echo and re-echo from somewhere beyond.

196.        QUARTERDECK - NIGHT

The light illuminates the half-hour glass, its top-half empty

of sand. Like everyone else, the duty sergeant stands frozen

to the spot. Jack rounds on him.

Roused, the duty sergeant turns the glass and time resumes

its flow.

Two bells are hesitantly rung and the crew regain the power

of motion, their limbs still spastic with fear. And when the

sound comes once more they all freeze.

JACK joins MOWETT at the taffrail. The thing is somewhere out

there, whatever it is.

He shouts, a slight nervous catch to his voice.

Part of him knows it's crazy and of course there's no reply.

The sound constantly shifting position, now in the water, now

in the sky.

JACK turns to see a white face, frighteningly close to his

own. It's PADEEN, mouth agape, face unnaturally white,

staring into the gloom as though drawn to whatever horror

lies out there.

He looks down at the press of men who have gathered at the

bottom of the ladder, some with weapons.

197.        LOWER DECK - NIGHT

Several crewmen huddle close together their faces lit by a

battle-lantern. Joe Plaice grim. Doudle wide-eyed. Higgins

with his alcoholic tremor more pronounced than ever.

General nods of agreement.

All eyes on JOE PLAICE. He speaks from the shadows.

Another shriek, closer now, seems to confirm JOE's bizarre

theory.

198.        MIDSHIPMEN'S BERTH - NIGHT

The boys sit together. None of them look at HOLLOM, who sits

pale and wretched in a corner of the room, clutching his

stomach.

199.        STEPHEN'S CABIN - NIGHT

As the howling continues, STEPHEN looks through a number of

books on sea-creatures searching for a reference to what

they're experiencing.

As JACK looks over his shoulder, his eye is caught by a

picture in one of STEPHEN's books.

He picks it up.

Close on the picture - it's an engraving of a giant squid,

its tentacles wrapped around a ship.

Back on JACK holding the picture up to STEPHEN.

There is a knock on the cabin door and BLAKENEY enters,

agitated.

200.   MIDSHIPMEN'S BERTH

HOLLOM writhing in agony on the floor, STEPHEN trying to calm

him, shouting for assistance from the midshipmen and then

from PADEEN.

201.        STEPHEN'S CABIN - NIGHT.

Stephen is writing some case notes in his journal, when Jack

puts his head around the door.

Stephens POV: The lamp, lighting his face from below and to

one side, gives a strange lopsided twist to Jacks smile

202      FORECASTLE, LATER - NIGHT

BLAKENEY stands near the bows peering out into the night. A

figure approaches from behind and lays a hand in his

shoulder.

BLAKENEY nearly jumps out of his skin.

HOLLOM's breathing does indeed seem easier.

He reaches down, picks up a 12 pound cannonball.

With a sudden movement he's on the gunwale, then he jumps

over the side the cannonball in his arms.

BLAKENEY looks down with shock to see HOLLOM's pale face

receding from him into the depths. It's a moment before he

gathers his wits to shout -

203.        QUARTERDECK - DAWN

The ship's company are mustered on deck. JACK stands at the

sword rack lectern. KILLICK hands him a Bible open at the

story of Jonah.

JACK looks, then hands it back to KILLICK.

Close on the faces of the crew - KILLICK, HIGGINS, NAGEL,

CALAMY, BLAKENEY and finally Stephen who is staring oddly at

Jack, as though holding him partly responsible for this

latest tragedy.

The men on deck remain standing, heads bowed, observing a

minute's silence, as the sky begins to pale, and the white

disc of the sun appears above them.

FASTER DOUDLE is the first to look up, followed by others -

the terrible sound has gone and a small puff of wind is

stirring the mainsail.

204. HOUR GLASS

The sand runs out of the half-hour glass.

The glass is inverted. The bell tolls.

205.        SURPRISE AT SEA - DAY

The ship moves through a tropical squall. Men rig a sail to

catch the water, others appear with barrels and tubs,

anything to catch the precious rain.

206.        THE SURPRISE - DAY

Sea birds swarming over a shoal of fish in the foreground as

the cry of the distant lookout carries faintly across the

sea.

207.        GANGWAY - DAY

BLAKENEY runs along the gangway, past STEPHEN, en route to

the quarterdeck.

208.     MONTAGE oF TELESCOPE VIEWS, GALAPAGOS - DAY

There's a primeval quality to the landscape, a feeling of a

world just born. The wild creatures that inhabit the lava

flows and coral beaches confirm this - the giant tortoises,

iguanas, sea-lions and penguins, a teeming profusion of

exotic animals and plants.

209.        QUARTERDECK/FORECASTLE/TOPS - DAY

The ship fairly bristles with telescopes.

210.   FORECASTLE

A small group of familiar faces share a pocket telescope.

DOUDLE takes the telescope.

211.   QUARTERDECK

STEPHEN and BLAKENEY side by side. From both their faces we

sense their wonder at seeing these remarkable creatures for

the first time.

He's looking at a group of unremarkable black seabirds

waddling about on a rock, flapping short, stumpy wings.

BLAKENEY dwells briefly on the strange rock-climbing birds

then drifts back to the iguanas.

His telescope remains focussed on the cormorants. BLAKENEY is

wholly absorbed in the iguanas.

Recognizing how superficially dull the birds are to

BLAKENEY's untutored eye, by contrast with giant lizards.

The prehistoric-looking creatures, as if suddenly awakened,

begin diving into the water.

He breaks off, suddenly aware of a shouted exchange between

the lookout and the quarterdeck.

BLAKENEY dashes off and STEPHEN is elbowed out of the way by

hands rushing to get at the sails.

As the ship turns a distant whaleboat appears with six men

aboard, pulling out from one of the neighboring islands.

212.        IN THE LEE OF THE SHIP'S HULL (TIME-LAPSE) - DAY

The whaleboat has come alongside.

Men swarm down the boarding nets and the whalers are helped

aboard, hoarse and exhausted from rowing and shouting.

213.        QUARTERDECK - LATER, DAY

HOGG, the senior whaler, sits with his mates, relating his

story to JACK and the officers.

Meaningful looks among Jack and his men. Its definitely the

Acheron he's describing [   ]

Hogg meanwhile takes a pint mug of water, gulps it down, and

passes it back to BLAKENEY for a refill.

Looking pointedly at Allen

As ALLEN hurries away shouting orders -

He leaves the quarterdeck and goes below, STEPHEN following.

214.   IN THE GREAT CABIN

JACK has taken his jacket off and is already unfurling his

charts. STEPHEN hurries in.

STEPHEN swallows his indignation and tries for a compromise.

JACK shakes his head.

STEPHEN is livid. Betrayed.

"Hobbies". So that is JACK's honest view of STEPHEN's

lifetime of work in science. He bows slightly, then leaves.

215         QUARTERDECK - DUSK

STEPHEN stands alone at the taffrail watching as the islands

recede in the distance.

News of the violent argument has spread and there is many a

sympathetic glance, which further humiliates STEPHEN.

BLAKENEY approaches him carrying something carefully in the

palm of his hand.

He opens his hand - close, on a very plain little brown

beetle.

BLAKENEY passes it to STEPHEN.

BLAKENEY hovers for a moment, unsure of further conversation,

then retreats.

216       IN THE GREAT CABIN - NIGHT

JACK sits alone at the table. KILLICK enters with toasted

cheese for two.

He sets down the toasted cheese.

JACK cuts himself a portion, scowling at STEPHEN's cello

which seems to watch him reproachfully as he eats.

217.      STEPHEN'S CABIN - NIGHT

STEPHEN takes a dropper, carefully measures twenty drops of

laudanum to a glass of water, and drinks.

218.        LOOKOUT - DAY

The lookout leaning out from the cross-trees.

219.        THE SHIP LYING STATIONARY - DAY

A barrel is being lifted aboard from the skiff and passed up

the side of the ship.

220.   IN THE WAIST OF THE SHIP

JACK comes down, accompanied by ALLEN, the acknowledged

expert in these matters.

Others gather round, including HOGG the whaler, inspecting

the stencilled markings.

221.        ON THE QUARTERDECK - DAY

JACK returns to his post.

TOM PULLINGS watches him. There has been a change amongst the

officers and crew toward JACK. His relentless driving after

the Acheron has reached the point of obsession, an obsession

not shared by his exhausted men.

He is a lonely, haunted figure as he now steps up on the

gunwale, one hand on the ratlines, scanning the empty sea,

sensing his enemy is out there, just beyond the curve of the

earth.

222.        LADDER (TIME LAPSE) - DAY

A wild wind humming through the rigging as STEPHEN goes

topside.

223.        FORECASTLE - DAY

He finds various hands making the boats secure.

224.        ON THE GANGWAY - DAY

STEPHEN runs along the gangway to get a clearer view,

checking himself when he sees JACK on the quarterdeck.

Their eyes meet. The quarterdeck is JACK's domain now, and

STEPHEN avoids it.

Then, behind JACK, the great bird suddenly appears.

It's huge, with at least a fourteen foot wing-span, and

flying very close to the ship, drifting and soaring on the

gusting wind, appearing and disappearing between the sails.

STEPHEN is mesmerized by it. He lets go of the rail, leaning

forward to get a better view.

At the same time across from STEPHEN on the opposite gangway,

HOWARD and two or three marines open fire on the bird. The

bird drops low, flying right by STEPHEN.

Again a crackle of gunfire, but the bird is apparently

uninjured, and it banks away, skimming the surface of the

water.

STEPHEN sags to the deck. A shout. People running. Blood

spreading across the white of his shirt. HOWARD there by his

side.

JACK is there, shouting -

STEPHEN gets slowly up, hands reaching to help him, HOWARD in

the background distraught, explaining to anyone who'll listen

what happened.

He tries to stand, crumples.

225.        STEPHEN's CABIN - DAY

HIGGINS presses clumsily around the wound as STEPHEN lies on

the bed, his abdomen rigid, his breathing laboured. JACK

watches from the door.

A violent pitching of the ship makes it obvious how

impossible this will be under sail.

As STEPHEN lapses into unconsciousness, HIGGINS looking

alarmed, approaches JACK.

JACK looks away from the alcoholic HIGGINS back to STEPHEN.

226.   OUTSIDE THE CABIN

JACK passes an anxious crowd of the ship's company: BLAKENEY,

JOE PLAICE, KILLICK and HOWARD.

There are dark looks in JACK's direction as he retreats to

his cabin.

227.   THE GREAT CABIN - DAY

JACK throws a chart on the table.

With his protractor he marches out great strides west into

the Pacific from the Galapagos Islands and marks the ship's

position - they are maybe a hundred miles from the Galapagos,

ahead, open sea until the Marquesas.

228.       INT. STEPHEN'S CABIN - DUSK

Lying on his bed, in some pain, STEPHEN hears thudding feet,

shouted orders.

In his weakened state, the sounds tend to merge. His

pitching cabin keeps swimming out of focus.

There's a knock on the door and JEMMY DUCKS appears with a

mug of soup and some biscuit.

STEPHEN nods, all he wants is quiet.

JEMMY DUCKS retreats, as STEPHEN swigs from a little bottle

of laudanum, which for a moment brings peace, effectively

blocking out the noise from above.

A smile to PADEEN, like a farewell, and he closes his eyes.

229.        FORECASTLE - DUSK

JACK, telescope to his eye, studies the distant ship as

PULLINGS jumps down from the ratlines to the deck.

JACK lowers the telescope, turns his back on PULLINGS,

strangely abstracted.

A long silence. Then JACK walks away.

PULLINGS stares perplexed from JACK's retreating figure to

the distant chase.

230.        INTERIOR STEPHEN'S CABIN - DAWN

Early morning light on the interior of the cabin. PADEEN is

asleep, holding a Bible, in the doctor's chair.

STEPHEN himself lies motionless with his eyes closed and his

mouth open, no colour in his face.

The sea is relatively calm. From outside the sound of the

bosun's orders, over rattling blocks and pulleys.

MOWETT comes in, sees STEPHEN, and takes him for dead.

Two big men come in behind him. PADEEN wakes, confused and

pushes them away, moving protectively to the doctor's side.

The commotion disturbs STEPHEN. His eyes open. Like a dead

man just come back to life.

STEPHEN swallows uncomfortably and tries to make sense of

things.

231.        A GALAPAGOS ISLAND - DAY

A giant iguana watches as a small procession trudges up the

stony beach.

At its head, STEPHEN is carried in a litter up to where a

tent has been set up above the high-water mark.

His P.O.V. as JACK appears in the blue sky above him.

He ducks as they enter -

232.        THE HOSPITAL TENT - DAY

In the creamy light, they lay STEPHEN down on a recently-

constructed wooden operating table.

HIGGINS squats on the ground, rummaging through various large

sharp surgical instruments which he has emptied onto a piece

of Hessian.

STEPHEN grabs JACK's sleeve.

Jack frowns, unsure what he means by this.

EXT. THE TENT - NIGHT

PADEEN stands, arms crossed at the closed tent-flap, keeping

at bay a crowd of well-wishers, and the merely curious.

INT. THE TENT - NIGHT

STEPHEN sits pale and sweaty, propped up on a series of

chests, his back against a coil of rope. In front of him,

suspended by pulleys, LAMB and NAGEL have set up a large

gilt-framed mirror.

Beside him, on a white tablecloth, some small scissors and

scalpels.

STEPHEN begins first with the knife, then the probe - the

grind of metal on living bone.

The metallic clash of instruments, perpetual swabbing.

JACK closes his eyes. STEPHEN draws in his breath, arches his

back, and it's done.

He pulls out the bullet, and with it, a fragment of his

shirt.

The bloody piece of shirt is handed to HIGGINS who matches it

to the hole in STEPHEN's old shirt.

HIGGINS helps JACK into a chair, pressing his head down

between his knees. After a moment, and a few deep breaths,

JACK looks up. STEPHEN smiles at him. A hint of surly

triumph.

235.        STEPHEN'S TENT - DAY

Through a gap in the door of his tent STEPHEN can see the

distant ship at anchor. Repairs are underway, guns being

unloaded, stores and fresh water being ferried aboard.

BLAKENEY comes in, followed by PADEEN with a some numbered

boxes hung round his neck.

BLAKENEY starts rolling up the sides of the tent as PADEEN

unloads his boxes, each with a beetle and a piece of

vegetation in it.

He finishes rolling up the tent sides to reveal a collection

of cages, with native wildfowl in them, being fed by the

poulterer, JEMMY DUCKS.

Then, producing a notebook -

STEPHEN flips the pages:

No 22. Large square black beetle with pincers. Found under

rock. Eats earthworms.

BLAKENEY is flattered but unsure.

Stephen smiles at this description as he levers himself into

a sitting position.

BLAKENEY looks doubtfully at the doctor's bandaged abdomen.

PADEEN puts the escaped beetle in his mouth for safe keeping

and offers STEPHEN a hand. STEPHEN pulls himself painfully to

his feet and starts buttoning his shirt.

ON THE BEACH - DAY

JACK is watching those of the crew not on duty play cricket

on the shore, with a canvas ball and stumps made of

driftwood.

He's making light of what has been a huge and far-reaching

decision.

STEPHEN regards him gravely, shaking his head.

He is absolutely sincere about this, to JACK's great

embarrassment.

237.        SURPRISE CAMP - DAWN

STEPHEN, BLAKENEY and PADEEN leave the camp on STEPHEN's

first day of exploration. They are armed with nets, baskets

and a day's supply of food and water.

STEPHEN walks slightly stooped, leaning on a walking stick.

238.        COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

A strange and wonderful landscape lies before them, with its

organically-shaped lava flows and alien-looking flora and

fauna.

Everywhere STEPHEN looks there are creatures unique to the

islands. He is in his element, collecting specimens which

PADEEN carefully stores in the baskets.

BLAKENEY has his telescope trained on some distant humps.

239.        A VALLEY - DAY

BLAKENEY gets astride a giant tortoise and burns his bottom

on its scorching hot shell.

240.        LAVA BEDS - DAY

STEPHEN with his telescope taking notes on bird-life.

241.        LOW SCRUB - DAY

The huge, strangely balletic figure of PADEEN chasing after a

butterfly in evening light.

242.        A HEADLAND - DAY

Wide to see another aspect of the countryside - a hint of

distant sea, a rocky headland rising from the plain.

The group is widely scattered. STEPHEN at the base of the

headland, BLAKENEY half a mile further inland. PADEEN coming

up slowly behind, laden with the fruits of their expedition.

243.        BASE OF THE HEADLAND - DAY

STEPHEN rests a moment. Some stones rattle down from the

hillside. He looks up to see a flash of black feathers near

the crest - the cormorant.

On his shirt a red smudge has appeared. His wound has begun

to bleed again.

Ignoring this, Stephen pushes on after his quarry.

244.   THE ROCKY SLOPE

Near the top, STEPHEN pauses to catch his breath and glances

above him.

Again the bird, moving higher, as if leading him on.

STEPHEN gets down on all fours, crawling cautiously to the

crest just above him.

245.   TOP OF THE HEADLAND

A clearing. There is movement in the bushes.

STEPHEN slowly rises, climbs the few paces to the hilltop and

enters a clearing.

He searches amongst the bushes. Nothing.

He turns and looks back down the hillside to see BLAKENEY and

PADEEN far below, then sits to get his breath back again.

STEPHEN'S P.O.V: on the ground between his feet, a beetle. He

picks it up.

Close, on his hand. It is the same type of beetle BLAKENEY

gave him aboard the Surprise.

Smiling at the coincidence STEPHEN raises the tiny creature

to eye level.

His P.O.V.: the beetle, the creature in sharp focus, behind

it the sea, and on the sea, a black shape.

The focus shifts to the background - a ship at anchor in a

bay.

The beetle flies away as STEPHEN stares out at the ship. It's

the Acheron, and they are weighing anchor.

246.         COUNTRYSIDE - DUSK

BLAKENEY urging STEPHEN to hurry as they make their way

through the darkening landscape. All kinds of creatures are

appearing around them, and every few yards STEPHEN pauses to

examine something.

He's breathing hard, exhausted.

PADEEN looks at the collection of baskets he carries.

STEPHEN raises his hand in protest, but BLAKENEY is already

divesting PADEEN of his load.

247.        COUNTRYSIDE - LAST LIGHT

PADEEN carrying STEPHEN 'piggy-back', BLAKENEY out ahead

urging them on.

247a   THE DISCARDED COLLECTING BOXES

A variety of small bugs and animals crawling free

248      STEPHEN'S CABIN - NIGHT

STEPHEN gingerly lowers himself into his 'elbow-chair',

gripping the table and BLAKENEY's good arm for support.

Sighing, he begins emptying his pockets of various small

items collected during the day - some leaves, rocks and

insects - and places them in ordered piles around his

microscope.

All about them can be heard the urgent sounds of departure -

the anchor rattling up, shouted orders and the drumming of

bare feet on the deck above.

He holds up a stick in a specimen-jar, and is examining it

with his magnifying glass when JACK enters.

STEPHEN's eye grossly enlarged through the lens.

Handing JACK the jar and magnifying glass.

JACK inspects the stick. It winks at him.

JACK stares at the creature.

JACK looks up at STEPHEN.

249.   BAY, GALAPAGOS - NIGHT

The Surprise alive with crewmen on the deck and in the

rigging. Shouts and commands drift across the water as she

turns and heads out from the bay.

249a         GANGWAY - SAME TIME

JACK strides along the quarterdeck towards the forecastle

issuing a stream of orders -

JACK hands him a piece of paper with a sketch on it.

He shouts to HOGG who, with a few men, is manhandling a large

metal cauldron from the ballast to the gun-deck.

249B.    SIDE OF THE SHIP,. NIGHT

The ship powers ahead as men swing in harnesses above the

racing water, painting out the Nelson chequer.

249C.    ON DECK.   NIGHT

NAGEL positions the great cauldron amidships as men come up

from below with old barrels and bits of rope.

On the gangway, Men under CALAMY's instructions haul on

ropes, pulling up the old patched sails.

The sails lead us up to

250.    CROSSTREES - NIGHT

JACK, PULLINGS and the whaler HOGG scan the dark horizon.

JACK has to use a telescope.

Shouts down to the helm -

251.        SURPRISE - DAWN

First light reveals the results of an overnight

transformation - from a naval warship to a shambolic-looking

Portuguese whaler.

The gunwales are painted an untidy ochre and the gun-ports

hidden behind broad strips of canvas.

The sails are patched and ragged, the forecastle cluttered

with barrels. Smoke billows from a cauldron amidships.

On deck and in the rigging, there's a quarter of the normal

complement of men, all of them dressed in purser's slops.

252.        QUARTERDECK - DAWN

A bemused STEPHEN looks about him as he approaches JACK.

253.        BERTH DECK - DAWN

HOWARD and his marines change out of their smart uniforms,

into the oldest most ragged clothes on board the ship, much

to the amusement of the passing sailors.

254.        GUN-DECK - DAWN

Men are checking the breechings of the great guns and

chipping cannonballs to make them more perfectly spherical,

more deadly.

The armourer is at his grindstone sending out showers of

sparks, a group of seamen round him relaying one another at

the crank, stacking newly honed cutlasses and boarding axes

at their feet.

Another team check and load pistols by the score.

254.        MIDSHIPMEN'S QUARTERS - DAWN

Alone, BLAKENEY awkwardly draws his dirk, left-handed from

its scabbard. It glints momentarily in the lamp-light.

CALAMY enters, face aglow, abruptly trying to cover his joy

when he sees BLAKENEY.

The others come in.

Oohs and aahs from all.

BLAKENEY looks from CALAMY to the others, who avoid his eye.

BLAKENEY is devastated.

Rye bursts in, in a state of high excitement.

256.        QUARTERDECK - DAWN

JACK raises his glass, focuses on the Acheron, plainly

visible in the distance, with a line of signal flags running

up her backstay.

Allen smiles at this unintended slight

257.        WIDE ON THE SHIPS - DAY

A show of chaos on deck as the Surprise veers upwind, away

from the Acheron. As she presents her stern we see her new

name: Malacca.

258.        QUARTERDECK OF THE SURPRISE - DAY

Through his telescope, JACK looks back at the Acheron in

pursuit, a dark figure on her foredeck.

BLAKENEY comes onto the quarterdeck and salutes, looking

flushed and angry.

BLAKENEY begins to salute, doesn't, and retires, tears

burning his eyes.

A moment later there's a flash of orange astern as the

Acheron opens up with her bow-chasers. An 18 pound shot

screams past the side of the Surprise to land with a column

of spray just off their bows.

The second ball takes down some rigging.

He goes below.

259.   WAIST - DAY

Barrels go overboard and pumps spout streams of water over

the side as JACK runs down to

260.   THE GUN-DECK

The great majority of men are gathered here, more than a

hundred of them crammed together with their muskets and

sabres, listening to the odd thump from topsides as another

ball from the Acheron hits home.

CALAMY and his gang of young tykes are squashed in there

somewhere, BOYLE, WILLIAMS, ADDISON and the rest, eyes

shining with nervousness and wild anticipation, as JACK

addresses his men, who shout encouragement, ad lib, in every

pause.

The camera moves over the upturned faces, PLAICE, NAGEL,

DOUDLE, KILLICK, the midshipmen, the powder-monkeys, the

whole fellowship of the ship. And finally STEPHEN watching

JACK doing what he does best: transmitting his own

fearlessness into other men - the total warrior, the

consummate leader.

CALAMY pipes up -

On CALAMY, cheering like a kid at a football match as...

261.          QUARTERDECK - DAY

Another well-placed shot from the Acheron smashes through the

rigging, sending down a shower of rope and cordage.

JACK is back at his station by the wheel, the Acheron little

more than a half a mile astern, the figure of the captain in

his black coat clearly visible.

JACK studies the looming black vessel, then turns and crosses

to BONDEN at the helm. BONDEN nods, lifting his hands from

the wheel as JACK grips the curved timber decisively, taking

the strain.

He feels the pulse of the ship through his fingers, looks up

to the sails then back to the Acheron. STEPHEN appears beside

him, casually smoking a cigar. He offers one to Jack, who

declines

Another shot pierces the mizzen foresail above them, but

neither man flinches. KILLICK appears with two cups of

coffee, and in his belt a brace of pistols.

JACK steers one-handed as he sips his coffee.

Another shot through the sails.

A ball goes howling past the ship, MOWETT winces.

JACK smiles, nods.

262.   P.O.V. ACHERON

She's now less than five hundred yards from their stern, and

gaining.

263.    QUARTERDECK

JACK turns back to MOWETT.

The British Jack rises to the masthead replacing the

Portuguese colours, as PULLINGS descends to the gun-deck.

264. SHIP'S SIDE -

The black muzzles appear with a low rumbling sound, as

265.   QUARTERDECK

JACK, with a wink to MOWETT, yells at the top of his voice

....and spins the wheel hard to starboard.

266.   THE SURPRISE

Wide, to see her swinging broadside on, across the path of

the oncoming Acheron.

267.   POV ACHERON DAY

Confused shouts from the enemy's deck, chaos on her

forecastle, somewhere a drum beating.

268 + 269.    DELETED

270.   THE SURPRISE QUARTERDECK - DAY

JACK hands the wheel to BONDEN.

271. - THE SURPRISE AND THE ACHERON

Wide, to see the Surprise turning downwind, back towards the

Acheron, so they will pass broadside to broadside [   ] no

more than thirty yards apart.

272. QUARTERDECK/ GUN-DECK, SURPRISE

Through a furious exchange of musket fire JACK runs down the

ladder to the gun-deck-

Through the gunports the Acheron's great hull becomes

visible. Some of the Acheron's guns have run out, but the

crews are unprepared and disorganized.

As the Surprise rolls and the upper deck of the Acheron

becomes visible.

273. THE SURPRISE GUNS

Barking, leaping back one by one, great tongues of flame

spitting from their barrels, dense clouds of smoke rising.

274.    VIEW OF THE ACHERON

With an almighty splitting sound their mainmast falls,

dragging yards and rigging with it, the whole mass falling

over their side, obscuring many of their gun-ports.

275. GUNDECK/QUARTERDECK, SURPRISE -

Cheers from the crew. Jack yelling up the companionway

276.    THE SURPRISE AND THE ACHERON

The Acheron wallows, bought to a standstill by the enormous

dragging weight of their mainmast.

BONDEN wheels the ship across the enemy's wake, past the

exposed, vulnerable stern.

277.    DELETED

277A.   GUNDECK, SURPRISE

278.    GUN-DECK, SURPRISE

In random sequence the Surprise's gunners pound it into the

Acheron's stern. Casement windows vanish in a cloud of wood

and glass, exposing the Acheron's terrified gun-crews, now

open to devastating fire as the Surprise glides past.

279.    QUARTERDECK

JACK climbs up on the gunwales, shouting to BONDEN -

280.    THE SURPRISE AND THE ACHERON

The bow of the Surprise lurches into the Acheron mid-ships,

spars interlocking, the Surprise guns firing into her at

point-blank range.

The crew throw grappling hooks.

281..   QUARTERDECK

And he leaps to the enemy deck, a great tide of men following

after him.

282.    FORECASTLE

CALAMY leads his own children's crusade from the bows and

forecastle: youthful but terrifying, screaming and swinging

their blades.

283.    QUARTERDECK

An agonized BLAKENEY watches from where he stands beside

STEPHEN. JOE PLAICE is close by with some of the older men,

ready to ferry the wounded below.

284.    ON THE ACHERON

As the Surprises pour onto the quarterdeck they face

withering fire from the enemy. A dozen men go down, some of

them fatally wounded. Among them are DOUDLE, BOYLE, ALLEN and

HORNER in quick succession.

The attack momentarily falters, and the Acherons surge back

at them.

JACK rallies his men and they charge again - the marine,

TROLLOPE, and NAGEL are blown backwards by grapeshot.

LAMB, enraged, surges past NAGEL's body, swinging his axe to

devastating effect, with HOLLAR by his side and JEMMY DUCKS

protecting their rear, a pistol in each hand, firing from the

hip.

JACK keeps pushing onwards, the centre of the milling,

swirling, hacking crowd, stabbing and pistolling each other

with barely room to fall.

The Acherons are gradually forced back across their

quarterdeck and down into the waist of the ship.

285.   WAIST OF THE ACHERON

JACK crosses swords with a man in front of him, as an enemy

pikeman drives his blade into his left arm, tearing through

the sleeve. BONDEN fires a pistol by his ear, deafening JACK

and killing the pikeman.

To either side, privateers are trying to reach them,

shouting, swearing in English, French and Spanish.

Bullets and missiles rain down from above, killing friend and

foe alike.

KILLICK is in the thick of it, a pistol in either hand, and

from his lips a high-pitched blood-curdling scream.

AWKWARD DAVIES is foaming at the mouth as he swings a meat-

cleaver right and left.

286.   QUARTERDECK, ACHERON

A commander of the privateers notes the poorly defended

Surprise, and leads a counter-attack over onto her

quarterdeck.

287. QUARTERDECK, SURPRISE

BLAKENEY, dirk in hand, turns to face them, as does HOWARD

and his men, but they are gravely outnumbered.

288.   FORECASTLE, ACHERON

CALAMY sees the danger and leads his gang back onto the

Surprise, calling for others to follow.

289. QUARTERDECK, SURPRISE

STEPHEN, PADEEN and JOE PLAICE appear from below. STEPHEN

picks up a pistol and with deadly accuracy shoots a privateer

lunging at CAPTAIN HOWARD. The man drops, a neat hole in his

forehead. A moment's astonishment from HOWARD at the Doctor's

surprising skill.

CALAMY fights his way to BLAKENEY who is down on his knees

stabbing at the legs of the attackers.

290.   WAIST, ACHERON

JACK, BONDEN and DAVIES are driving a wedge toward the stern,

the defenders falling back in disarray.

291.   QUARTERDECK OF THE ACHERON

PULLINGS and MOWETT fight side-by-side.

A swivel-gun mounted on the taff-rail is swung to face them.

The gunner is about to fire when a perfectly-aimed musket

ball hits him, again fired by STEPHEN.

292.   QUARTERDECK, SURPRISE/ACHERON

CALAMY, BLAKENEY and their group force the counter-attack

back onto the deck of the Acheron. The two boys fight as a

team as they move toward the stern.

292.   SIDE OF THE ACHERON

Some Acherons jump overboard to escape the furious attack.

Others are thrown, grasping at woodwork as they fall.

293.   QUARTERDECK OF THE ACHERON

JEMMY DUCKS turns the swivel on a group of Acherons, the

grapeshot blasting them up against the gunwale.

294.   IN THE WATER

Oil burns. Men drown, others struggle to stay afloat,

clinging to the mass of wreckage floating by the hull.

295.   WAIST OF THE SHIP

Cheering from the Surprises, demands to surrender in many

languages, some beg for mercy, others fight on.

296.   BELOW DECKS

JACK moves alone, down to the berth deck. He smashes the

chain off a locked-door, releasing a dozen or more prisoners.

Everywhere signs of the lethal blast through the ship's

stern, bodies, guns upended, shattered timbers.

He makes his way through to the Great Cabin.

297.   GREAT CABIN, ACHERON

Four privateers look up as JACK bursts in.

They have been looting their own ship's valuables, two of

them are too drunk to be scared.

One man leaps out through the shattered windows. A couple of

others raise their hands and start jabbering in French and

Spanish.

298.   QUARTERDECK, ACHERON

It's all over for the Acherons as a French officer hauls down

their colours.

A cheer from the Surprises - a few last shots fired. CALAMY

and BLAKENEY cheering, BLAKENEY holding aloft the captured

flag.

A dying Frenchman suddenly lunges at CALAMY with a sabre.

BLAKENEY steps in front of him and takes the blow.

299.   IN THE SICK-BERTH, ACHERON

A doctor is working here, a callow-faced man in a bloody

apron, red-eyed from fatigue.

JACK enters, a fearsome sight, with his singed yellow hair

and blood-stained cutlass.

The doctor points at a body on the operating table.

JACK approaches, looks down at the dead man. He's [ ]

somewhere about JACK's age, fine-featured, with his black

coat draped over his body.

Passing JACK the captain's sword.

300.   QUARTERDECK, ACHERON

JACK picks his way through the dead and wounded to where

CALAMY sits nursing BLAKENEY.

Gently, JACK picks up the lifeless body and walks slowly back

down the quarterdeck, the boy draped across his arms.

Friend and foe part silently in front of him as he crosses

the gangway to...

301.   QUARTERDECK, SURPRISE

...then with CALAMY following, he goes below.

302.   THE GREAT CABIN - DAY

JACK in wide shot, sitting alone on the bench running under

the stern windows. His hunched posture and red tear-stained

eyes give a glimpse of his familiar post-battle mood - a mix

of grief and depression, the old question, "Was it worth the

price?".

303.         ACHERON AND SURPRISE - DAWN

The two ships anchored close together on the ocean.

304.         QUARTERDECK, SURPRISE - DAWN

As eight bells are rung for the change of watch we see a row

of canvas hammocks each containing the body of a fallen

crewman.

DAVIES and PLAICE stitch the bodies into their hammocks,

BLAKENEY the last body in the line. As the men approach -

JOE passes him the needle and twine, then they leave him

alone.

As CALAMY sews up the hammock, HOLLAR's voice is heard

distinctly from below.

In close-up: the peaceful face of BLAKENEY

...as CALAMY's hands stitch the canvas closed.

305.        WIDE ON THE SURPRISE - DAWN

The small figures of the crew assembled on the quarterdeck.

JACK's voice drifting across the water.

The bodies in their weighted hammocks slide into the sea.

306.        BOW OF THE SURPRISE - DAY

Wide on STEPHEN and BLAKENEY as they sit watching two

dolphins surfing the bow-wave, STEPHEN pointing out various

features of these magnificent creatures, doing his best to

take the boy's mind off the loss of his friend.

307.   THE SURPRISE AND THE ACHERON - DAY

The two ships sail abreast - the Acheron, her shattered masts

jury-rigged.

308.   QUARTERDECK, SURPRISE - DAY

JACK stands with LIEUTENANT MOWETT and the signals

midshipman, WILLIAMSON. They look across at the Acheron.

WILLIAMSON hurries to the signals locker, the signal book and

JACK's message in his hand.

309.   TELESCOPE POV   DAY

The line of colored signal-flags run up to the mast-head of

the Surprise.

309A   QUARTERDECK ACHERON

Midshipman Rye is reading the signal for Pullings

A contented smile on Pullings face as his promotion is

confirmed. He waves across to JACK as the Acheron makes a

sharp turn away from the Surprise.

310.   DELETED

311.   ABOUT THE SHIP - DUSK

Slowly the crew come back to life as old familiar habits and

routines reassert themselves.

composing a poem in memory of the battle.

a small attentive audience.

BECKETT's waist. The chain begun off BRAZIL now winds its way

around most of his torso.

collected at the Galapagos, as...

Stephen Maturin, his brow furrowed, his lips moving silently.

313.   INTERIOR, GREAT CABIN - NIGHT

STEPHEN plays a note on his cello [      ]

JACK pauses, gazing into space.

JACK goes very still. A silence broken only by the sound of

water flowing gently past the hull.

He looks down at the captain's sword on the table, the

thought of a possible final deception flooding through him.

He starts to play, the deep booming sound of the cello

carrying through to ....

312.   OUTSIDE THE GREAT CABIN - NIGHT

KILLICK, wearing an ostentatious bandage about his head, is

preparing toasted cheese with BLACK BILL.

In the cabin, the violin joins with the cello. Rolling,

undeniable music, the music of the waves, resonating through

the great ship and filling the night. Stephens mind is far

away. Jack breaks off abruptly:

And he breaks into a merry jig

313.   SURPRISE, EXTERIOR - NIGHT

Wide, to see the stern of the ship and a patch of surrounding

water lit by the great stern lantern. Through the casement

windows the two men can be seen playing.

Wider, to the vast dark sky and the heaving ocean all around,

with the stern cabin, a tiny orange light, still faintly

visible in the darkness.

314.   FURTHER BACK

And further still. Until we see the curve of the earth, and

the planet spinning on its journey through space.

***

