FADE IN:

CLOSEUP OF SCOTT ROPER

He's listening to the stretch call of a horse race, and he's

into it.

The CAMERA GRADUALLY pulls back to reveal that Roper is

driving his Trans Am across the Bay Bridge. HELICOPTER SHOTS

give a soaring view of the San Francisco skyline.

INT. CAR - DAY

Roper's police radio SQUAWKS.

He picks up the radio.

He tosses the radio down. Punches the accelerator.

EXT. TRANS AM - DAY

Weaving through traffic on the bridge.

The Trans Am streak off toward the city.

EXT. BANK - DOWNTOWN - DAY

A hostage situation. Police barricades. Dozens of squad cars,

ambulances, spectators, SWAT team. It's a stalemate. Roper's

Trans Am pulls to a stop at the barricades. He hops out,

weaves through the spectators and past the barriers.

A FEMALE DETECTIVE, EIKO KIMURA, rushes up to him.

Kimura points to the diner in the middle of the block. Roper

heads toward it. As they walk Kimura briefs him...

INT. DINER - DAY

Across from the bank. This is where the "command post" is

setup. About a dozen cops and the accompanying support staff

are here. Lieutenant SAMUEL BAFFERT is in charge. Roper

saunters in.

Roper walks over to the counter where Baffert is standing.

Baffert hands him a folder. Roper opens it.

Roper scans the profile.

Roper refers to the folder.

Roper pulls out his gun and places it on the counter.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Roper eats the donut as he crosses toward the bank.

EXT. ROOFTOP ACROSS THE STREET - DAY

A team of two SWAT TEAM MEMBERS, FORBES IS A SPOTTER AND

MCCALL IS A SHARPSHOOTER. KEVIN MCCALL, is the one we're

interested in. He's 25 years old, handsome, all American.

He's the best the SWAT team has.

He crouches motionless, staring through the scope of his

rifle, watching as Roper calmly walks toward the bank.

INT. BANK - DAY

A tense situation. A wild-eyed, white punk, fuck-up of a

BANK ROBBER, EARL, is holding a pretty, young TELLER around

the neck with a cocked gun held to her temple.

The other bank employees are cowering on the floor. A few

are giving aid to the wounded bank guard who is half-conscious

and oozing blood from his side.

Roper strolls right through the front door and walks toward

Earl, very sociable.

Earl swipes the donuts out of Roper's hand and starts frisking

Roper for weapons with his free hand. The other hand still

has the gun poised at the young teller's head.

Roper smiles reassuringly at the pretty teller. It seems to

help. Earl finishes patting Roper down, straightens back up

and puts his hand around the teller's neck.

Roper looks over at the other bank employees huddled on the

floor.

A balding, middle-aged MAN sheepishly raises his hand.

Roper takes a step toward him.

Earl wags his gun against the Teller's ear.

Roper holds his hand up defensively.

Earl is pouring sweat. His gun hand is shaking uncontrollably.

Roper keeps his eyes locked on Earl. His voice is calm.

Roper takes a long look at Earl. The guy is a hair trigger.

Earl glances at the army of cop cars poised outside. Reflects

for a moment on the reality of the situation.

Roper calmly moves toward where the wounded guard is laying.

Roper crouches down, smiles at the blurry-eyed guard.

The guard groans. He's not doing very well. Roper peels back

the bloody handkerchief, takes a look. Winces.

Earl is encouraged by that.

Roper looks directly into Earl's eyes.

Roper bends over the guard.

He grabs the guard under the arms and starts dragging him

across the floor. The guard MOANS piteously.

Roper keeps dragging the guard toward the front door.

Earl is unsure what to do, but he guesses an oath is an oath.

He lets Roper drag the guard to the door.

Earl compliantly moves the gun away from the teller's head,

then re-thinks and jerks it back against her temple.

EXT. BANK - DAY

Roper drags the guard out the front door and deposits him on

the sidewalk. Two SWAT OFFICERS rush up to give aid. One of

them is Jennings.

(NOTE: The method of disarming Earl is still to be determined)

Jennings inconspicuously pulls his gun out and slips it to

him. Roper quickly cocks it and shoves it in his waistband

under his shirt and vest.

INT. BANK - DAY

Earl watches Roper through the window. He can only see Roper's

back. He's getting very agitated.

The two cops hustle off with the wounded guard, and Roper

calmly walks back into the bank. Stops about five paces from

Earl.

Roper glances at Debbie. Gun pressed against her head. Tears

start rolling down her cheeks. She's being tremendously brave.

Earl squeezes the gun even tighter against the side of her

head.

The other hostages watch this exchange tensely.

Earl thinks about it, his gun hand twitching. He points at

two of the female employees cowering against the counter.

Roper decides that this is the best he's going to get.

The two women don't need any extra encouragement. They jump

up and rush out the front door.

EXT. ROOFTOP - DAY

McCall and Forbes watch through their rifle scopes as the

two released hostages are whisked away by uniformed cops.

INT. BANK - DAY

Roper turns around and walks toward the front door. He stops

and looks over his shoulder.

Earl looks like he's right on the edge.

Earl thinks about that for a beat...

Roper turns around, starts walking again. He keeps his eyes

focused on the reflection of Earl in the front window of the

bank.

In one swift motion, Roper turns, aims and FIRES!...

One SHOT. It tears into Earl's shoulder. One inch from

Debbie's neck. Earl is blown back against the counter. Debbie

shrieks at the top of her lungs.

SWAT guys pour in from every entrance. YELLING for everybody

to "GET DOWN"! Pointing guns. They pounce on Earl.

Roper goes to Debbie, puts his arm around her and gently

leads her out of the bank.

EXT. ROOFTOP - DAY

McCall and Forbes still have their rifles trained on the

bank door. Their police radio squawks...

McCall lowers his rifle as Roper guides Debbie through the

wave of cops rushing into the bank.

EXT. STREET - SHORT TIME LATER

Roper is exiting the bank and putting back on his gun when

he hears the sound of a CAMERA SHUTTER. He turns to see

VERONICA (RONNIE) TATE holding the camera. She snaps one of

Roper with Earl in the b.g. being placed in a squad car.

Roper puts his hand over his heart as if stricken with love...

which he in fact is.

Ronnie rolls her eyes. She doesn't take Roper all that

seriously.

She slings the camera over her shoulder and starts to walk

off. Roper dogs her.

Ronnie stops. Looks him in the eye.

Ronnie smiles, but offers no response.

Roper gets down on his knees.

She takes the lense cap off her camera. Roper primps his

hair to make sure he looks good for the picture... CLICK!

Suddenly Roper notices that his Trans Am is being towed. He

rushes over to his car.

A REPO MAN stands off to the side watching dispassionately.

Roper sadly watches the tow truck drive off with his beloved

Trans Am.

INT. METRO DIVISION HEADQUARTERS - DAY - RAINING

Lots of activity. Officers in cubicles; talking on phones;

typing reports on computers. Most are plain-clothed. Roper

weaves through the room. Passes by Baffert's desk.

Baffert pulls two tickets for the Warriors' game out of his

pocket.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY - RAINING

A quiet contrast to the squadroom. This is the executive

branch of Metro. All the big-wigs are officed here. Roper

walks down the carpeted hall. No one here except Kevin McCall

quietly sitting outside Captain Solis' office. Roper and

McCall make brief eye contact. Roper thinks nothing of it.

He goes into the Captain's office.

INT. CAPTAIN SOLIS' OFFICE - RAINING

CAPTAIN FRANK SOLIS is on the phone. There's a file on the

desk in front of him. He motions Roper to sit down.

Roper smiles as he sits down.

Solis hangs up. Looks across the desk at Roper. A long pause.

He knows he's got leverage.

Solis dumps his cards on the table.

Roper grabs McCall's folder off the desk.

Roper scans it.

INT. HALLWAY - SAME - RAINING

McCall turns around in his chair. He can see Roper and Solis

through the glass walls of the office, but he can't hear

their voices.

INT. SOLIS' OFFICE - SAME - RAINING

Roper throws the folder back on the desk.

Uh-oh, Roper thinks maybe he sold short.

Solis gets up and taps the glass, motions for McCall to come

in.

McCall enters the office.

Roper reaches out. They shake hands.

Roper's face darkens.

Roper smiles.

Roper and McCall head out the door.

Roper turns back around.

Roper smiles. Total victory.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY - RAINING

MOVING with Roper and McCall.

They enter the squadroom, wind through the cubicles.

They arrive at Roper's desk.

Roper grabs an empty soda bottle from a neighboring desk. He

takes the cap off a ball point pen and drops it into the

empty bottle. He places the bottle on his desk.

McCall looks at the bottle quizzically.

Roper grabs his jacket and walks off, leaving McCall to ponder

the problem. McCall looks over at another cop who has been

observing. The cop shrugs his shoulders. He hasn't got a

clue. McCall sits down and thoughtfully peers into the bottle.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. UNDERGROUND GARAGE - NIGHT

Roper and Baffert walking past the row of cars, including

Solis' cadillac, searching for Roper's "new" transportation...

Roper is holding the keys in his hand.

Roper is looking at the numbered parking spaces.

Roper bends over like an old man.

They arrive at their destination. A parking space with a

1957 DODGE PICKUP.

Roper looks at the pickup truck in disbelief.

Baffert unlocks the pickup and offers the keys to Roper who

is crossing to the truck.

He takes the keys from Baffert who moves around to the

passengers side. He opens the door.

EXT. MARKET STREET - NIGHT

The pickup in traffic.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. KORDA'S BUILDING - NIGHT

It's a four story twenties style walk-up. It's evening now.

The pickup pulls to a stop out front.

INT. PICKUP - NIGHT

Baffert pulls out a slip of paper.

Baffert gets out. Roper grabs his cell phone.

Baffert turns back around.

Baffert goes into the building. Roper dials his cellular

phone. Beep! Beep!

DETAIL SHOT

A message on the display reads: RECHARGE BATTERY.

Roper looks around. There's a payphone across the street. He

gets out of the truck and crosses to it.

INT. BUILDING - NIGHT

Third floor hallway. Nice, middle class place. Well kept up.

Baffert walks over to room 306. Knocks.

INT. KORDA'S APT. - NIGHT

Jazz is playing. MICHAEL KORDA sits motionless in a chair

listening to the music. There's a KNOCK. Korda responds as

if pulled from a trance. He rises and moves to the door.

A slight hesitation from Korda. He glances around the

apartment. For what reason, we don't know. Maybe to make

sure there's nothing incriminating around. He opens the door.

Korda steps aside and lets Baffert enter. Korda closes the

door. Baffert scans the place. Not bad. He listens to the

music. A smile grows on his face.

Korda smiles back. Another jazz aficionada.

Korda goes to the stereo, turns it down. Duke Ellington plays

low.

Baffert smiles.

Korda drifts to the other side of the room. Takes a look out

his front window...

HIS POV

Nobody there. Just the truck.

He says it as if the very idea disturbs him. He turns away

from the window. Baffert feigns a coughing spell.

Korda heads toward the kitchen area. Baffert uses this as an

opportunity to drift around the room. Do a little snooping.

Baffert notices something in the trash can.

HIS POV

Several glassine envelopes used for raw jewels. They have

jeweler's markings on them indicating gem weight and grade.

INT. KITCHEN

Korda, pouring the water, notices Baffert's discovery, but

his face betrays nothing.

Korda re-enters the room with the glass of water.

They look at each other a beat. Korda is still holding the

water.

A real repressed tension here. Someone's about to get hurt.

Baffert takes the glass of water.

He takes a sip. Korda watches him like a cobra. Baffert puts

the glass down on the table.

Korda smiles. Baffert walks to the door. Opens it to leave...

Baffert turns back around.

Baffert muses along with Korda.

Baffert moves off down the hall and Korda closes his door.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Baffert gets into the elevator.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Baffert takes out his cell phone. Dials.

The elevator hits the first floor.

The elevator opens.

Korda is standing there with a knife.

Baffert has no time to react...

The knife hand slashes forward... Stabbing the chest and

slashing across the throat.

EXT. BUILDING - NIGHT

Korda calmly exits the building as Roper crosses the street,

returning from the payphone. Neither of the men take any

particular notices of each other. A WOMAN carrying her

groceries enters the building.

Roper gets to the truck. A SCREAM from inside the building.

INT. BUILDING - NIGHT

Baffert is laying in the open elevator, knife wounds to his

neck and chest. Roper rushes over to him. It doesn't look

good.

The woman with the groceries is standing halfway up the first

flight of stairs. Frozen. Roper pulls out his gun and rushes

by her up the stairs.

INT. THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

Roper arrives at the top of the stairs. Korda's door is ajar.

Duke Ellington can be heard faintly.

INT. KORDA'S APT. - NIGHT

Roper nudges the door open, takes a step inside, gun ready...

No one there. Suddenly, from the hallway, the click of a

door. Roper races out.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Roper sprints to the door at the end of the hall, KICKS it

open. Gun aimed.

INT. APT. 302 - NIGHT

A five year old stares up at him. Scared stiff. Roper holds

up a reassuring hand, and, as quickly as he arrived, he

leaves.

EXT. BUILDING - NIGHT

Roper burst out the front. Down the stairs to the sidewalk.

Looks both ways down the street... Realizes in dismay that

Korda is long gone. A SIREN approaches.

INT. SOLIS OFFICE - NIGHT - RAIN

Angle outside window to Roper sitting in a chair by the window

looking out to the rain. Solis is in the b.g. on the phone.

Solis hangs up the phone.

Roper turns to leave.

Roper pauses at the door. Then pulls out two basketball

tickets and lays them on the table in Solis' office. He exits.

INT. METRO OFFICE AREA - NIGHT

Two detectives. A female named KIMURA and a tall guy named

GLASS, try to make a getaway as they see Roper coming.

Roper intercepts them.

Roper responds louder than necessary with a half turn toward

Solis' hallway.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO STREET - NIGHT - RAINING

Roper's pickup drives by.

INT. PICKUP

Thru the windshield. We see Roper as the windshield wipers

flap back and forth. His face seems dazed and lost.

INT. RONNIE'S HALLWAY - NIGHT

Roper knocks. Ronnie's cheerful voice can be heard.

Roper makes no effort to pull himself together. The door

opens and Ronnie's face registers surprise. She's dressed

casually in jeans, a nice shirt, but wears make-up and

earrings.

She nods, sympathetic, but doesn't leave the doorway.

Ronnie opens the door reluctantly.

INT. RONNIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Roper enters. Instantly we see he's at home here. He hangs

his coat in the closet, puts his keys on the table, notices

a photograph on the wall. Quite imposing. Very unique style.

Roper gazes at it indifferently. He falls silent. Thoughts

turned inward. Suddenly, TROY, (the dog), bounds in. He's

ecstatic to see Roper. He puts his front paws on the couch

and his head in Roper's lap.

Roper smiles briefly, pats the dog, taking comfort from his

presence. His words are light. His tone isn't.

Ronnie watches them, suddenly showing the sadness she's

carefully buried.

She nods. A moment's silence.

She's not coming closer. She wants to, but she won't do it.

She seems uneasy, glances towards the door. Roper rises.

He reaches for her and she looks like she might give in to

him, but at that moment there's a KNOCK ON THE DOOR. Ronnie

pulls back, confused and guilty.

Her silence is the answer... A flash of pain from Roper.

Ronnie watches as he searches for his keys in his pockets.

He grabs the keys as she opens the door. GREG stands outside

waiting. He's a big, good looking guy with a smile on his

face.

Greg's smile fades as he sees Roper.

Roper strides past Greg who remains in the doorway. Ronnie

makes brief eye contact with Greg, but then moves past him

to follow Roper. She calls after him.

Roper doesn't look back. He just goes.

EXT. PIER 26 - EARLY MORNING

A huge warehouse. Sun coming up over the East Bay, CLARENCE

TEAL rides up on a HARLEY MOTORCYLE, carrying a large cup of

coffee to go. He enters the warehouse.

INT. WAREHOUSE - SAME

Car and Boat parts stacked in aisles ten feet high. Clarence

shuffles through to his watchman's quarters which are

connected to the end of the warehouse.

INT. WATCHMAN'S QUARTERS - SAME

Built on pilings with a panoramic view of the bay. Korda is

waiting behind the door as Clarence enters. He seizes Clarence

from behind and slams him against the wall and spins him

around. Hot coffee soaks the front of Clarence's shirt.

Clarence is scared. He offers no defense.

Korda tosses Clarence down onto the cot.

Tears start to come to Clarence's eyes.

Clarence sincerely feels bad. It's kind of touching in a

twisted way. Korda moves over to the window to keep from

striking Clarence again. He looks off across the bay.

Clarence watches Korda warily. Things are beginning to add

up in his head.

Korda turns to Clarence with a penetrated stare that answers

the question. Clarence is shaken by that. He starts to whimper

again.

We're talking major fear here...

Korda moves to him and we think he's going to bash him around

again, but, surprisingly, he hugs Clarence's head against

his chest.

Tears of relief from Clarence.

INT. METRO DIVISION HEADQUARTERS - DAY

Roper enters the squadroom. His mood is contained. He walks

to a desk where Kimura and Glass are huddling.

A couple desks over, McCall is reclining in Roper's chair,

reading a book entitled, "Strategies and Counter Measures in

Hostage Situations". On the desk in front of him is the bottle

with the pen cap still in it.

Suddenly Solis appears at their side.

Roper looks at him icily.

McCall, Kimura, Glass all watch this confrontation tensely.

After a beat, Roper gives in. Indicates his compliance. Solis

heads back to this office.

He moves toward the desk. McCall gets up when he sees him

coming.

McCall respectfully drops it. Roper looks down at the soda

bottle.

McCall holds up a finger. Not so fast. He picks up a pot

from a nearby "Mr. Coffee" machine. It's filled with water.

He takes the water and slowly pours it into the bottle.

CLOSE ON THE BOTTLE

The pen cap floats to the top and McCall plucks it out without

touching or moving the bottle.

Just then a SERGEANT calls to Roper across the squadroom.

McCall grabs his duffel bag. Roper starts away from the desk,

then notices the book on "Hostage Strategies". He looks at

the title, then makes a demonstration of dropping it in the

trash can. He and McCall head out.

EXT. MARKET STREET - DAY

The pickup is weaving through traffic.

INT. PICKUP - DAY

Start on one of those air freshener evergreen trees hanging

from the rear view mirror. PULL BACK to show a police bubble

flashing on the dashboard.

Roper weaving through traffic. McCall is sitting calmly as

ever.

EXT. 6TH STREET - DAY

Several Patrol Cars are parked in front of an unappealing

apartment building. A crowd has begun to gather. UNIFORMED

POLICEMEN hold them back. TWO COPS are questioning a man

wearing only green slacks. No shirt. No shoes. Just the

slacks. He is very agitated.

The pickup screeches up. Roper and McCall hop out. Roper

flashes his badge to the OFFICER in charge. (OFFICER #1)

The Officer points up to the third floor.

Roper nods. Walks back over to the pickup. Looks up. Eyeballs

the building.

Roper throws him a look. McCall walks to the back of the

pickup, reaches into the cab and digs around in his duffel

bag.

McCall slams the truck door, sniper rifle in hand.

McCall marches off across the street.

McCall calls back over his shoulder.

At that moment, a scream echoes down from the third floor

window. Roper heads for the front door of the building.

INT. APT. HALLWAY/STAIRCASE - (ACROSS THE STREET)

McCall bounds up the stairs of the building to the rooftop.

INT. 6TH ST. APARTMENT BUILDING HALLWAY - DAY

The screams are getting more panicky. Roper comes down the

hall quickly. The door to the apartment is open. It's been

that way since the guy in the green slacks fled. Roper hurries

toward the door.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

The WIFE is in bra and panties and the HUSBAND is 6'4". He's

giving her a good beating. It's a studio apartment. Unmade

bed. Belongings strewn all over. Window open with sun

streaming in, and a good view of the building across the

street. We hear ROPER'S VOICE from out in the hall.

The husband snatches his wife by the hair and holds a knife

to her throat.

But Roper steps into the apartment. Sees the wife. Face

swollen. Knife to her neck. The enraged husband, contemplating

murder. One inch from committing the act. Roper doesn't bat

an eye.

He presses the knife against the wife's throat. She winces.

Her chest heaves.

Roper reaches into his pocket and pulls out his wallet. He

extracts a photo.

CLOSEUP PHOTO

Wife. Two kids. A little dog-eared. Nice touch.

ROPER

holds it up so Raymond can see it.

EXT. ROOF ACROSS THE STREET - ON MCCALL

In prone position. Rifle in hand. Eye to scope.

POV THROUGH SIGHT

of Raymond's open window.

INT. RAYMOND'S APARTMENT

Everyone where we left them. Roper looks at Ray with utter

sincerity.

And now Ray is crying. Blubbering actually. And he's not

that coherent.

Roper reaches out to him.

Ray stares blankly at Roper's outstretched hand, the knife

clutched tightly in his fist... The wife squeezes her eyes

closed. Everything waits for an excruciatingly long beat...

Then...

It's on a coat rack in the corner. But to get there he has

to pass by the window. Ray drops his wife on the bed, turns

and goes to get his coat.

He crosses in front of the window... Reaches for the coat.

POP! A bullet slams into his skull. Ray falls to the floor.

The wife runs out of the room, screaming!

He rushes over to Ray. Circle of blood soaking into the

carpet. Ray's empty eyes. His hand still wrapped in his coat.

He was dead instantly. Roper slams his fist into the wall. A

couple of cops, guns drawn, arrive at the doorway. Roper

bolts out of the room... Pounds down the hallway... Pounds

down the stairs... down another flight...

EXT. APT. BLDG.

McCall comes across the street. Roper sees McCall, cool as

ever. Rifle slung over his shoulder. Roper steps into his

path.

McCall gives no answer. He pushes past Roper and continues

into the building.

INT. APT. BUILDING - HALLWAY - DAY

Roper follows, screaming his head off.

McCall, still stone-faced, reaches the apartment. Yellow

"crime scene" tape is being placed across the doorway. Cops

are tiptoeing around, surveying evidence. McCall ducks under

the tape. Roper follows.

INT. APT. - DAY

McCall goes over to Ray's body. Crouches down. Roper comes

up behind him. McCall picks up the coat covering Ray's arms.

Clutched in Ray's hand is a gun "Saturday night special"

variety. McCall looks up at Roper.

Roper doesn't miss a beat.

McCall gets to his feet.

McCall and Roper glare at each other. Toe to toe. A beat.

McCall's face softens just perceptibly.

He walks out of the room. Roper whips the sheet off the bed,

contemplates the gun gripped in Ray's hand... Then tosses

the sheet over Ray's dead body.

INT. METRO DIVISION - NIGHT

Roper seated in the hallway, waiting outside a door marked

"Internal Affairs". Things are quiet. Roper stares at the

floor. Waiting.

The door opens. McCall comes out, escorted by two internal

affairs INVESTIGATORS. One of the investigators pats him on

the back.

McCall shakes hands with the investigators and they disappear

back into the office. Roper approaches McCall. He's cooled

off considerably. Even a tad friendly.

INT. BILLY GOAT TAVERN - NIGHT

A neighborhood bar. Roper and McCall are playing pool. Half-

finished beers are on a nearby table. McCall is bent over

the table trying to make a particularly tricky shot. Roper

studies him.

McCall misses the shot.

Roper lines up his shot.

Roper smiles. Sinks his shot. Moves around the table.

A couple of months sounds like an awful long time to Roper.

A beat and then McCall realizes that this comment is a major

acknowledgement of acceptance from Roper. Roper misses his

shot. Picks up his beer glass.

Roper takes a drink of beer. Nears the bottom of his glass.

Calls to the BARTENDER.

Roper turns back to McCall.

Roper puts down his glass.

Roper nods. Maybe he can.

INT. ROOM - DAY

We're looking at a door. It's not clear where we are. McCall

enters. We only see his face. Determined.

REVERSE ANGLE

It's a training room. It's built to approximate a convenience

store. Several mannequins are placed around the room to

represent a hostage situation. The "BAD GUY" has a walkie-

talkie strapped around his neck. Roper's voice CRACKLES out

of it.

McCall hesitates, trying to figure out a response. He seems

stiff and awkward.

Roper enters the training room from a side door. He's holding

the other walkie-talkie.

Roper comes up beside him.

INT. TRAINING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

ANGLE ON THE DOOR. McCall comes in. The room has the same

set-up. McCall takes a look around. Launches immediately

into...

Roper's voice crackles back at him hostilely.

McCall's confidence is growing.

Now he's stumped.

McCall looks up to his right.

Roper re-enters the training area.

Roper turns to McCall.

Roper gives him an amused smile.

That's not the answer Roper wanted.

McCall is tired of guessing.

McCall can't argue with that one. Roper turns and heads back

to the side door.

INT. TRAINING ROOM - LATER

McCall comes through the door. Hands in the air. The setup

in the room has been changed a bit. The bad guy is behind

the counter. Several hostages in various positions on the

floor.

Roper comes through the side door.

McCall is surprised by the command but closes them. Roper

turns him away from the hostage scene.

McCall opens his eyes. Roper's impressed.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Roper and McCall are sitting in the dark watching a video

tape. It's grainy footage of a hostage situation in a sporting

goods store. A negotiator confronted with a gunman holding a

ten year old girl hostage. The negotiator holds his hands

out imploringly... Carefully moves toward the gunman. The

negotiator exchanges himself for the little girl. The gunman

grabs the negotiator around the neck, holds the gun to his

head. The little girl runs out of the picture to safety.

Roper remains dead silent during all this. McCall looks over

at him. The blue light flickers over Roper's motionless face.

Roper nods.

McCall watches him for a beat, then turns his attention back

on the screen.

EXT. GOLDEN GATE RACETRACK - DAY

Beautiful day. Roper and McCall leaning against the rail at

the walking ring. The horses are being paraded and saddled.

Roper scrutinizes them with an expert eye. McCall seems

totally disinterested.

Roper ignores that.

Roper points across the ring to a particular horse.

McCall listens indifferently.

INT. BETTING WINDOWS - DAY

Roper is buying tickets. McCall is with him, watching the

other bettors, the odds board, all the monitors... Strange

place. Roper finishes and turns away from the window. Hands

McCall a ticket.

EXT. SEATING AREA - DAY

Roper and McCall pass by a gambler.

They sit down in a box right up front.

Roper uses his binoculars to watch the horses warm up on the

backstretch.

Roper looks over at him. What's this about?

Roper throws McCall a skeptical look.

ON THE TRACK

The horses spring from the gate. (The track announcer's call

plays through race)

IN THE STANDS

Roper watches intently through the binoculars. McCall sits

impassively.

McCall looks across the track.

Roper follows the horses into the turn.

McCall sits like a wax figure.

ON THE TRACK

The horses head into the stretch. The FOUR is on the lead

and the SIX is starting to unleash a big run. Passing horses

with every stride.

IN THE STANDS

McCall sits forward slightly.

Roper gets to his feet.

ON THE TRACK

The horses thunder down the stretch. The FOUR horse is in

front and the SIX is coming on from behind.

IN THE STANDS

Roper is on his feet screaming.

McCall jumps to this feet and joins him.

Roper and McCall cheer together.

ON THE TRACK

The FOUR horse crosses the finish line in front. The SIX

horse is flying... Needs to beat one horse to be second...

He's running out of room... With one last surge he hits the

wire and... It's too close to call.

IN THE STANDS

McCall, really excited, turns to Roper.

ANGLE ON TOTE BOARD

As the photo finish light goes out and the numbers come on...

4-6-8. They won.

IN THE STANDS

High fives.

INT. BET/CASH WINDOW - DAY

Roper and McCall collect their money. Four hundred a piece,

not bad. McCall pockets his money.

Suddenly Roper's BEEPER goes off. He checks it, takes out a

cellular phone and dials.

He hangs up and turns to McCall.

EXT. JEWELRY STORE - UNION SQUARE - DAY

Marble facade. Tastefully reinforced windows and door.

Choppers circle overhead. Both ends of the street are sealed

off. Barricades are up. Spectators and news crews crowd behind

those. Numerous police circulate. This is a major operation

in full swing.

INT. TRAVEL AGENCY - COMMAND CENTER - DAY

It's across the street from the jewelry store. Second story.

The walls are plastered with travel posters. A poster of

Tahiti is the most prominent. Members of police and SWAT are

standing over a blueprint of the jewelry store spread out on

a table. Right behind them is a TV monitoring the front of

the store. Solis is at another desk, on the phone. He's

talking to the suspect.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Roper and McCall push through the barricades and come walking

down the cordoned-off street. McCall takes a look at the

jewelry store. Well fortified, foreboding.

Roper looks over there, gives no reaction. They reach Solis'

convertible Cadillac. It's parked out front of the travel

agency building.

INT. COMMAND POST - DAY

Roper and McCall enter. McCall joins the men who are studying

the blueprint. Roper stands by Solis and listens, takes note

of the poster of Tahiti. Looks inviting.

Solis pulls the phone away from his ear. Joe has obviously

hung up.

McCall returns from checking out the blueprints.

McCall shakes his head.

Roper picks up the cellular phone. It dials automatically.

INT. JEWELRY STORE - DAY

We don't see anything but the suspect on the other end of

the phone. He's wearing a ski mask and gloves. Totally

unrecognizable to the audience. We will find out soon that

he is, in fact, Korda. He appears very cool and collected.

INT. COMMAND CENTER - DAY

A long pause... Then a bit sinister.

Roper clicks off the phone. He already doesn't like the sound

of this guy.

EXT. STREET OUTSIDE JEWELRY STORE - DAY

Roper, bulletproof vest, hands in the air, walks across the

eerily deserted street straight toward the jewelry store.

It's quiet now. The choppers have been pulled back.

Roper reaches the sidewalk right in front of the store. Korda

cracks the door open.

Roper stops in his tracks.

Roper slowly lowers his hands.

INT. COMMAND CENTER

Everybody watching through the window.

EXT. JEWELRY STORE - DAY

Korda takes a half step out the doorway. The gloved hand

that is visible is not holding a weapon. The other half of

his body is hidden inside the doorway. He wears jeans, a

black shirt, and black Nike tennis shoes. He stares fiercely

from behind the ski mask. There's no sign of fear in him.

Korda lets that sink in.

Korda's eyes glare from behind the ski mask. He's an ominous

figure.

Korda pulls a wadded-up handkerchief out of his pocket and

tosses it to Roper. Roper unwraps the handkerchief.

DETAIL SHOT

It's a human ear.

Roper is as serious as we've ever seen him.

Korda disappears back behind the door.

EXT. COMMAND CENTER - DAY

Roper trudges back in. Things are more active now. Logistical

officers are making flow charts. Photos of the hostages are

being posted on a bulletin board. Roper approaches Solis,

McCall and the SWAT CAPTAIN who are anxiously waiting for

his report.

That draws a long silence. That's something Roper rarely

says.

Roper hands Solis the handkerchief with the ear in it. Solis

eyes it with dismay.

McCall calmly offers his opinion.

Solis nods. That'll be the plan.

The SWAT Captain motions and turns to one of his UNDERLINGS.

The underling hurries off to take care of it. Solis looks at

Roper dejectedly.

Roper tries to buck him up.

INT. JEWELRY STORE - DAY

The jewel thief pulls off his ski mask to reveal he is Korda.

His face is sweaty. Hair matted. ANGLE WIDENS to show five

very scared hostages: A JEWELER, middle-aged, balding. The

male MANAGER, good-looking, thirties, three piece suit. TWO

SALESGIRLS, nicely dressed, late twenties. A FEMALE CUSTOMER,

gray-haired Hillsborough matron. They are all seated against

the wall. There are two fatalities lying on the floor. The

guard and one of the jewelers.

Korda points his gun at the manager and the other jeweler

and motions to the dead bodies.

The two men reluctantly get to their feet and commence the

grim task. The two salesgirls watch Korda fearfully. The

older female customer seems to be in a lesser state of

reality. Her eyes are a bit far away.

Korda moves over to the remaining display cases that haven't

been looted. With the barrel of his gun, He SMASHES the glass,

reaches in and picks out the jewelry. He dumps it in an open

satchel already half-filled with packets of raw gemstones

and gold chains. Suddenly, the older woman customer gets to

her feet. She seems fairly out-of-it. Maybe in shock. She

starts walking toward the front door frowning with

dissatisfaction.

Korda rushes around the display case.

He grabs a handful of the woman's coiffed gray hair and drags

her away from the door. She shrieks. The manager takes a

step toward Korda.

Korda pistol whips her across the forehead and drops her

unconscious to the floor then turns the gun on the manager.

The manager glares at him. He's about Korda's size. He thinks

about making a run at him.

A long beat... The manager sits back down on the floor with

the other hostages. Salesgirl 1 is giving aid to the old

woman. Korda looks down at her.

Korda goes back to the display cases to collect the rest of

the gems.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Cops clear spectators out of the way as a green FORD EXPLORER

RUMBLES through the barricade and heads down the deserted

street.

INT. COMMAND CENTER - DAY

Roper and McCall at the window, attention fixed on the store.

The Explorer crawls to a stop in front of the jewelry store.

Parks at a slight angle. The uniformed police officer gets

out, leaving the engine running, and walks off back to the

barricade.

Roper picks up the phone, waits. Everybody tensely watching

the store.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. BUILDING - SAME

A sniper team watching the store from a third floor window.

INT. COMMAND CENTER - SAME

Roper holding the phone. It's still ringing.

EXT. ROOFTOP - DIFFERENT BUILDING - SAME

Another sharpshooting team. Poised. Waiting.

EXT. ANOTHER ROOFTOP - SAME

And still another sharpshooter team.

INT. COMMAND CENTER - SAME

The phone is still ringing.

Just then, the front door of the jewelry store swings open.

A spray of white vapor shoots out the doorway. Korda is

discharging a fire extinguisher.

A thick cloud of white hangs over the sidewalk obscuring the

front of the jewelry store. Roper puts down the phone.

Roper grabs a pair of binoculars.

HIS POV

Through the haze, we catch glimpses of the hostages circled

around the figure in the ski mask. They slowly shuffle toward

the Explorer.

McCall watches intently.

EXT. ROOFTOP - SAME

A sniper watches through his scope. Finger poised on the

trigger.

ANGLE THROUGH THE SCOPE

Low visibility through the haze. The figure in the ski mask

wavers in and out of the crosshairs, shielded momentarily by

the jeweler, then he flashes back into the crosshairs. The

sniper tries to lock him in.

INT. COMMAND CENTER - ROPER'S POV - BINOCULARS - SAME

The figure in the ski mask leans slightly and Roper catches

a glimpse of the hostage right behind him. Roper recognizes

him instantly.

McCall sees him now, too.

Roper drops the binoculars and grabs his police radio.

Too late. A SHOT rings out. The figure in the ski mask goes

down, hit by the bullet.

More SHOTS ring out.

DOWN ON THE STREET

The white vapor cloud swirls. The hostages, spattered with

blood, scream and scatter. The figure in the ski mask lies

dead on the sidewalk. Korda, dressed in the manager's three

piece suit, holding the satchel of jewels in one hand and

his gun in the other FIRES back at the snipers. He grabs

salesgirl 1 and drags her into the Explorer.

INT. COMMAND CENTER

Roper sees Korda move toward the car with one of the hostages.

As Roper turns into the room he notices a set of keys on

Solis' desk.

As Roper and McCall move toward the door...

And Roper and McCall are gone.

DOWN ON THE STREET

Police come rushing onto the street. Guns drawn. The Explorer

ROARS off down the block. Roper and McCall burst out of the

command center building, leap into Solis' Cadillac and tear

off after the van. McCall is behind the wheel.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. POLICE BARRICADES - DAY

The Explorer comes barreling toward it. Spectators scatter.

Two squad cars SCREECH up behind the barricades, trying to

block Korda's escape. The Explorer PLOWS through the metal

barricades. BASHES the squad cars out of the way. And screams

off around the corner.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. STREET - DAY

The Explorer careens up an alley and bursts into the congested

traffic of a side street. HONK-SCREECH! A Toyota swerves to

miss it and broadsides a parked car. The Explorer fishtails

off down the street.

INT. VAN - DAY

The salesgirl is terrified. Korda checks the rear view mirror.

No one on his tail... At first. Then the Cadillac comes

speeding up behind...

INT. CADILLAC - DAY

Roper and McCall have the Van in sight, about a block ahead.

Roper picks up the radio.

A voice comes back.

INT. VAN - DAY

Korda has one eye on the road and the other on the rear view

mirror. The Cadillac is making up ground.

UP AHEAD

a squad car SCREECHES into the intersection and smokes to a

stop. Korda jerks the wheel, pulls a SCREAMING right turn

and heads up the hill.

EXT. STREET - DAY

The Cadillac is only about a hundred feet behind the van...

Brakes SQUEALING, it swerves around the corner in pursuit.

THE VAN

hits the top of the hill and goes airborne... SLAMS back

down to the pavement.

INT. VAN - DAY

Korda floors it, and we get a frightening view out the

windshield as they head straight downhill. The salesgirl is

beyond petrified.

THE CADILLAC

reaches the top of the hill. Going fast.

INT. CADILLAC

As it rocks forward violently. Front bumper slamming against

the pavement. McCall sees the van ahead. Hammers the

accelerator. No fear.

VAN

Korda sees traffic ahead... Intersection jammed. He pulls a

hard left.

THE VAN

cuts straight across the corner... up on the sidewalk...

shears a mailbox... a row of newspaper machines fly through

the air... The van speeds off down a one-way street...

THE CADILLAC

arrives at the intersection a few seconds later...

Intersection still jammed... People now standing on the corner

gawking at the damage. The Caddy SCREECHES to a stop. McCall

HONKS... The people scatter... The Cadillac drives through

the corner.

THE VAN

Wrong way down a one-way street. Cars coming right at us in

every angle. Frantic HONKING. Salesgirl SHRIEKS. Tires

SMOKING... No way to avoid collision... Except Korda pulls a

left an instant before impact... The van speeds back up the

hill.

THE CADILIAC

Down the same one way street... Comes up on the head-on

traffic, now stopped, paralyzed with fear from the near

collision with Korda...

EXT. STREET - DAY

The Cadillac roars around the corner and heads up the hill.

INT. VAN

Korda, checking the rear view mirror. The Caddy is a short

distance behind. Attention still focused behind, Korda enters

an intersection, running a red light... CROSS-TRAFFIC...

Korda stiffens... Pulls on the wheel

THE STREET

The van swerves... But not quick enough... GRINDING metal...

SHATTERING glass... The van rolls over another car...

BRIEF CUT - LOOKING OUT THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

Korda and the salesgirl tossed about as the van does a

dizzying roll...

THE VAN

...and CRASHES back down to the street upside down. After a

beat, Korda crawls from the wreckage carrying the satchel of

jewels. The salesgirl does not emerge. He spots a cable car

reaching the top of the hill and starting its long descend.

He heads toward it...

INT. CABLE CAR

As Korda comes toward them from the wreckage, some of the

passengers view him uneasily.

THE CADILLAC

hits the top of the hill just in time for Rope and McCall to

see Korda leap onto the moving cable car.

CABLE CAR

other passengers give Korda room. They can sense that he is

not here merely for the ride. Korda looks out the back...

Roper and McCall haven't lost track of him. The Cadillac is

making up ground on the cable car.

Korda moves to the back exit, pulls his gun and FIRES off a

couple of shots at the Caddy.

INT. CADILLAC

A bullet fractures the windshield. McCall swerves.

BACK ON THE CABLE CAR

That makes up the minds of many of the passenger. They leap

off the cable car.

Korda takes aim on the Caddy again and FIRES!

The brakeman charges down the aisle while Korda has his

attention focused out the back and tries to shove him off

the cable car...

Almost works... but Korda is able to hang on by one hand...

He swings around toward the Brakeman who turns involuntarily

as he sees the barrel of the gun pointed at him... BANG!

Korda shoots him in the back.

The brakeman staggers down the aisle and slumps across the

brake lever, releasing it more.

EXT. UNDER CABLE CAR

The brakes are stressed.

EXT. STREET

Now driverless, the cable car picks up speed... Broadsides a

car... Pushing it into parked cars...

THE CABLE CAR

Korda and the remaining passengers are rocked around.

THE CABLE CAR

THUNDERS towards us... Filling the FRAME...

A SIDE ANGLE

Shows the cable car leaving the wreckage in its wake.

CADILLAC

It passes the smashed car. McCall looks at the speedometer

as he paces the cable car. It's going at 45 mph.

EXT. INTERSECTION

The cable car barrels through... Plows into two cross-traffic

cars... Knocks them aside... Keeps picking up speed.

THE CADILLAC

Weaves through the wreckage... Makes up ground on the cable

car, trying to pull alongside.

THE CABLE CAR

For the moment, Korda is not shooting at the Caddy. His

attention is now focused downhill as...

KORDA'S POV

The cable car nails another vehicle sending it spinning off

to the side.

THE CADDY

dodges the spinning car... Jumps up onto the sidewalk...

Mows down parking meters... Jumps back onto the street.

THE CABLE CAR

Korda leans out the door, takes aim at the Caddy... Another

jammed intersection up ahead...

INT. CAR OF MAN TRAPPED IN INTERSECTION

He sees the cable car coming in his rear view mirror. He

bails out...

THE CABLE CAR

SLAMS into the back of the car. Major impact.

THE CABLE CAR

Korda and the passengers are thrown to the floor.

THE REAR-ENDED CAR

Tumbles down the hill... Hits a car coming uphill and rolls

into a parked car.

THE CADILLAC

Speeds up alongside the cable car. Roper climbs over the

windshield, onto the hood and leaps onto the cable car.

INT. CABLE CAR

Korda sees him coming. FIRES. Roper dives out the other side

of the cable car.

CABLE CAR

Roper hanging off the side. He gets his gun out of his

holster...

Up ahead, a car pulls away from the curb...

Roper swings around to get back into the relative safety of

the cable car. As he does his gun is raked out of his hand

by the car which avoids a collision by a millimeter.

CABLE CAR

Korda aims as Roper re-enters...

CABLE CAR

As it CRASHES into the back of a car turning left.

Everyone is thrown toward the front of the car. Korda's gun

goes flying. Roper dives on top of him. They trade punches.

McCall is in b.g. with the Caddy pacing the cable car.

INTERSECTION

Pedestrains bolt out of the way as the cable car streaks

through...

THE CABLE CAR

Roper hammers Korda into unconsciousness. Outside McCall is

honking and yelling like crazy. Roper looks over... McCall

points ahead...

ROPER'S POV

The cable car.

ROPER

Leaps to the brake lever. Pulls on it.

ANGLE UNDER THE CABLE CAR

The clamp tries to slow the descent. It whine and smokes...

Then disintegrates before our eyes.

THE CABLE CAR

Roper feels the lever go slack in his hands. The cable car

is speeding toward the end of the line... No way to stop

it... Roper turns and takes a running leap into the Caddy...

INT. CADDY

He lands in the passenger seat. Roper pounds his foot down

on the accelerator. The Caddy lunges ahead of the cable car...

McCall can't figure out what he's doing. Roper yanks the

steering wheel hard right...

EXT. STREET

The Caddy collides with the front of the cable car. Tires

SCREAM. The steel wheels CLATTER. A cloud of burning rubber

forms. The cable car grinds forward pushing the Cadillac...

But it's working. The cable car is slowing.

BOTTOM OF STREET

The crowd now sees the Caddy and cable car bearing down on

them. General hysteria as they flee.

THE CABLE CAR

Korda regains consciousness. Sees what's going on. He grabs

the satchel and bails out of the cable car...

STREET

...Onto the hood of a passing taxi. The taxi slams on its

brakes. Korda rolls off the hood, picks himself up and runs

into an underground garage.

THE CABLE CAR

Grinding to a halt just short of the end of the line. Roper

grabs McCall's gun off the seat and leaps out of the Caddy

to pursue Korda. People approach to ogle the two vehicles in

astonishment.

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Roper moves up an interior stairway, gun in "ready" position.

He knows Korda is somewhere in the parking structure. He

glides up the stairway to the third level. Checks back over

the rail... No one around... Then a sound from inside the

garage... Footsteps maybe.

Roper carefully opens the door... Swings in with his gun...

INT. THIRD LEVEL - GARAGE

Lots of cars, but no one in sight. Roper moves quickly to

the protection of a row of cars... He crouches down. Scans

beneath the cars... No sign of Korda.

Roper searches between two rows... Comes up beside a van...

Thinks he hears something stirring inside. Whirls a gun toward

the window.

A dog lunges at the CAMERA... Snarling... baring teeth...

Roper moves on.

NEW ANGLE

As a BMW crawls through the parking structure. Roper steps

into the FOREGROUND, right into its path, gun visible. The

BMW rolls to a stop. Roper approaches with caution.

Roper comes up beside the car and sees a very frightened 30

year old blonde. Roper takes a check out of the backseat.

INSIDE THE CAR

The woman rolls up the window and hits the gas. She drives

off.

INT. GARAGE

Roper stands in the middle of the garage and takes a final

scan... He has the discouraging feeling that Korda might

have escaped.

He heads toward the exit... Suddenly a SCREECH of tires...

Roper whirls to see a sedan bearing down on him. He drives

and FIRES! Bullets shatter the windshield.

The car continues toward Roper. He has to roll out of the

path of the car. The car swerves past Roper. Tries to make

it down the ramp. Roper fires again, taking out the rear

window and a rear tire. The car slides along the guard rail

and continues down to the next level. Roper runs after it.

GARAGE - 2ND LEVEL

As the car reaches the next level, Korda loses control and

piles into a parked car.

Korda crawls out of the car clutching his precious satchel

of jewels. Dazed, he staggers away from the wreck.

Roper moves to him with a face grim as death. He strips the

satchel from Korda's hand and slams him against the open car

door. Korda goes to his knees. Roper holds the barrel of his

gun right up between Korda's eyes.

Korda stares back at Roper defiantly. He knows a cop won't

kill him in cold blood...

What he doesn't know is that Roper doesn't give a shit about

those rules at this moment.

Korda stares past the barrel of the gun.

And that makes Roper even angrier... But he keeps it all

inside. His expression is as cold as a San Francisco night.

He yanks back hard on Korda's hair. Pushes the gun tighter

against Korda's forehead. He's on the verge of executing

this guy.

In a flash, Roper points the gun upward and fires off a SHOT!

Roper jams the gun back under Korda's chin. A pull of the

trigger would send a bullet straight up through Korda's skull.

And now Korda is fully convinced. He squeezes his eyes closed.

Face straining so hard, he looks like he's going to burst

out of his skin.

ANGLE - MCCALL

moving across garage into position.

Long, long beat. Roper eases up and Korda smiles. Just when

we feel the scene is over, Roper turns back quickly and kicks

Korda in the stomach, then grabs Korda by the hair, pulls

his head back and shoves the gun in his face.

Korda is doubled up coughing, spitting up blood. Roper walks

away as McCall moves in to put the cuffs on Korda.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. METRO DIVISION - NIGHT

Roper is sitting in a cubicle doing paperwork. A group of

reporters and photographers move down the hallway adjoining

the squadroom. One of them is Ronnie. Through the glass walls,

she notices Roper sitting alone at the computer. She bids

good-night to the reporters and comes into the squadroom.

Roper keeps tapping away at the computer.

She nods knowingly.

Ronnie watches him for a moment. He stops typing, looks at

her and smiles. She suddenly becomes self-conscious. Guess

it was something she was thinking.

She turns abruptly to leave. Roper finds himself rising from

his chair.

She turns back around.

He takes a few steps toward.

He looks at her innocently.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Ronnie is making macaroni. Roper helps to prepare a dressing

to go with the salad. He is mixing oil, vinegar, sugar and

spices. He lets her have a taste.

There is a long pause as he looks at her.

Ronnie stirs the macaroni.

Ronnie puts the lid on the macaroni. There is a beat before

she continues.

The dog yawns. They laugh. Roper moves closer to her. He

kisses her and she responds.

INT. RONNIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The lovemaking is over. Roper is gazing at the ceiling,

thinking. Ronnie is cuddled around him. A comfortable

moment...

INT. COUNTY JAIL VISITING ROOM - DAY

Clarence Teal, Korda's cousin sits in front of the plexiglass

wall. He's edgy, fidgety. Clarence doesn't like to make visits

to jail.

Korda, wearing prison clothes, is led in by a guard. Korda

takes a seat at the other side of the plexiglass wall and

picks up the receiver. Clarence picks up his receiver.

Korda grips the phone, leans forward and stares through the

wall.

Clarence is totally unnerved by this request.

Korda glares at him murderously.

Korda starts to draw the attention of the guard. He controls

himself, lowers his voice. But the viciousness is still there.

He doesn't finish that thought.

Clarence is getting very upset.

Clarence holds back tears, because he knows he's going to

have to do this.

EXT. RONNIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A gray San Francisco evening. It starts to rain.

INT. RONNIE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

She's cooking some kind of sauce. She has a taste.

EXT. RONNIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A subjective POV watching through the window as she moves

around the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Ronnie pours some oil in a pan. The phone RINGS. She crosses

the kitchen to answer it.

INT. PICKUP - NIGHT

Roper on his cell phone. Paco is on the seat beside him.

Roper notices the rain, searches for the windshield wiper

switch.

INT. RONNIE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

INT. PICKUP - NIGHT

Paco sits there panting. Roper pulls the pickup over in front

of the store.

INT. KITCHEN - STORE

She hangs up.

EXT. RONNIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Through the window we watch her cross back to the stove.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Ronnie lifts the lid on the sauce. Stirs. It spatters on her

blouse. She regards the stain with dismay. Puts the lid back

on and leaves the kitchen.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Ronnie unbuttons her blouse as she moves to the...

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

She takes off the blouse, goes to the closet door... throws

it open. She looks around. Something's not right. She takes

a step into the closet and finds what she's looking for -- A

laundry basket -- tucked away in the corner. She puts the

soiled blouse in the hamper and takes a fresh one off a

hanger. She buttons the clean blouse as she walks to...

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Dark. She turns on the light. She goes to the mirrored

medicine cabinet.

IN THE REFLECTION

Behind her the shower curtain is drawn, fluttering ever so

slightly. She opens the medicine cabinet. Takes out some

perfume. Dabs some on her neck. She puts back the bottle and

closes the cabinet. We fully expect someone to be standing

right behind her in the reflection... There's no one there.

She turns off the light as she walks out of the bathroom.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Ronnie walks back to the kitchen... Notices something on the

floor further down the hallway... What is it? She moves

closer... And now we get to the POV that tells us someone is

in the house... Watching her through a cracked doorway.

BRIEF CUT

A hand opening a buck knife. Water drips from the fingers.

BACK IN THE HALL

Ronnie bends down. It's a wet spot. Like half a shoeprint.

She reaches down to touch it...

BUZZZZZ!!!! The oven timer. She hurries back to the kitchen.

INT. RONNIE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

She turns off the timer and pulls some chicken out of the

oven. She puts it down on the counter and cross to the

refrigerator. She opens the door and looks inside. The

refrigerator door obscures half the FRAME... She digs around

for something... We're sure that when she closes the door,

he's going to be behind it... She takes out a head of lettuce

and... Closes the door... Still no one there.

She turns... Clarence is standing there. Dripping wet. Ronnie

shrieks... The knife flashes forward... She grabs the lid

from the sauce pan and CLANG... Fends off the blade. She

bolts for the hallway. Clarence grabs her by the blouse...

RIP! She pulls away.

IN THE HALLWAY

She races down the hall. Clarence lunges into FRAME. She

goes down... He goes down... the knife goes skidding down

the hallway... Ronnie scrambles to get it... Clarence has

her by the ankle... She claws for the knife... Just out of

reach.

EXT. RONNIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Roper's pickup pulls up in front. He gets out. Paco jumps

out behind him. It's raining harder. They hurry up the walkway

toward the house. Suddenly Roper realizes he forgot the wine.

He goes back to the truck. Paco pads after him.

Roper opens the driver's side door, reaches in and grabs the

wine. He closes the door, starts away, but pauses to check

himself in the window.

Suddenly, a floodlight comes crashing through Ronnie's front

bay windows. It SPARKS and FLASHES. Still plugged in, it

bungees to a stop hallway down the front of the house.

FLICKERING and FLASHING.

Roper rushes toward the house... Crashes through the front

door... Up the stairway... Paco bounds after him... Roper

hits her front door running... Wham! He bounces off. He

shoulders it again... The door doesn't give... He pulls out

his gun... BAM! BAM! Shoots off the lock.

INT. RONNIE'S APT. - NIGHT

A QUICK SHOT of Clarence's hand grabbing the knife.

INT. STAIRWAY - NIGHT

Roper kicks open the door. Charges in.

INT. RONNIE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Ronnie is laying on the floor, gasping for air. Choke marks

around her throat. Roper rushes to her side. Paco is on his

heels.

She nods. Points out the back way.

The dog obediently stays with Ronnie. Roper dashes out the

back.

EXT. BACK OF RONNIE'S - NIGHT

Raining more heavily now. Roper bursts out onto the back

porch. Sees Clarence leaping off the last rung of the fire

escape to the alley. Roper flies down the fire escape...

Vaults the last flight and races after Clarence.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Clarence sprints down the block... Through the intersection...

HONK! SCREECH! A car barely misses him. It does a one-eighty

on the rain-slick pavement. Clarence disappears into the

shadows. Roper arrives a beat later... Streaks through the

intersection... Into the shadows.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET - NIGHT

This one is steep. Clarence huffs and puffs as he labors. He

shoots into a doorway. Tries the door. Locked. He looks back.

Roper is coming. Relentless. He rushes across the steep

street. Almost slips on the reflective asphalt. Roper spots

him crossing and picks up the pace. He can see that Clarence

is faltering.

NEAR THE TOP OF THE HILL

Clarence staggers into an alleyway...

EXT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT

Narrow, dark and dripping with rain. Roper arrives at the

mouth of the alley. Gun ready, he moves cautiously, eyes

adjusting to the darkness. The PATTER of rain off the

rooftops. His FOOTSTEPS. No other sound.

He reaches the end of the alley... A brick wall. No way out.

Or so it would seem. However, Clarence is nowhere in sight.

Roper turns back. Brick walls tower on both sides, rising

into darkness. Roper checks a steel door. Locked. He checks

another one on the opposite side of the alley. Also locked.

Where did Clarence go? He moves back toward the misting light

of the street... Slowly...

The FAINT RATTLE of a fire escape... And Clarence leaps down

out of the shadow. Slashing with the knife. He catches Roper

across the arm.

Rips through his clothes right down to the skin. Roper's gun

CLATTERS under a parked car and into the street. Clarence

has first jump. He scrambles into the street, around the car

and grabs the gun...

Roper dives over the hood of the car and knocks Clarence

down before he can aim. They roll into the middle of the

street. Both have a death grip on the weapon. Clarence fights

like a trapped animal. Thrashing desperately. Roper pins him

on his back, but can't pry the gun out of his fingers.

WIDER SHOT

Headlights radiate over the crest of the hill. Coming quickly.

Roper sees this. He rolls out of the way, abandoning the

battle for the gun. Clarence struggles to his knees. Turns

the weapon on Roper... A speeding cab lunges over the top of

the hill. Clarence turns, trapped in the searing headlights.

Tires squeal. Brakes lock. Clarence is transfixed... WHAM!

He's launched through the air like a ragdoll... His body

lands limply 30 feet down the street. The CABBY gets out of

his vehicle.

Roper walks down the hill to the body. The cabby follows.

Roper ignores the cabby. He looks down at Clarence's body,

contemplating something.

The cabby immediately clams up.

Roper stares at Clarence's body, steel-eyed.

INT. COUNTY JAIL VISITING ROOM - DAY

Korda is led in again. An expression of surprise registers

on his face when he sees who's waiting for him.

KORDA'S POV

Roper is sitting stoically behind the plexiglass wall.

KORDA

Dons a smug expression and takes a seat. He picks up his

receiver as Roper picks up his.

Korda feigns total innocence.

Roper takes out a photograph and holds it up against the

glass.

Korda's face tightens. He drops the innocent act. His

countenance is now a study in hate.

He motions around.

Roper glares at him mounting rage.

Roper sits there, suddenly feeling powerless.

Roper leaps from his chair and smashes the receiver against

the plexiglass wall.

The guard rushes over and restrains Roper. Wrestles him away

from the glass wall. Roper pushes him off and gathers himself.

He gives Korda one last stare. Korda sits there smirking

back at him... Roper turns his back and walks out.

INT. ROPER'S OFFICE - DAY

McCall is practicing his negotiating techniques in a mirror.

Not quite right. He adjusts his stance. This time puts a

little hand movement into it.

He's still not satisfied.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. ROPER'S OFFICE - DAY

Captain Solis pokes his head in the door, he's been looking

for McCall.

EXT. VETERAN'S HOSPITAL ROOFTOP - DAY

A VETERAN wearing green fatigue is dangling another WHEELCHAIR

BOUND VET over the edge. Fourteen floors up. The two front

wheels are literally hanging out there in space.

Vet 2 is struggling to stay in the chair and not be tipped

into the street 150 feet below. He is, needless to say, very

panicky.

But he's not getting through to his friend.

INT. STAIRWELL - DAY

Leading to the roof. A COUPLE OF COPS and MEMBERS OF THE

HOSPITAL STAFF peek out at the vet as he continues to rant

and rave. McCall arrives at the top of the stairs. OFFICER

#4 sure looks happy to see him. McCall takes a peek out onto

the roof. He isn't happy about what he sees.

A NURSE answers him.

We hear the urgent cry of the vet in the wheelchair.

The nurse turns to McCall.

McCall takes a deep breath and steps out onto the roof.

EXT. ROOF - DAY

McCall moves slowly across the tar paper roof. Clouds overhead

threaten rain. Vet 1 turns to him suddenly, wobbling the

wheelchair. Vet 2 shrieks and nearly goes over. McCall's

heart jumps into his mouth.

McCall is tense and stiff. He stammers.

So much for McCall's opener. Now what?

Dave ignores Walter.

McCall moves a couple steps closer.

McCall fumbles for the right response.

EXT. STREET BELOW - DAY

Cops keep spectators back from the building. Fire trucks and

rescue vehicles are on the scene. Everybody looking straight

up watching the wheelchair with its occupant dangling over

the side of the building.

EXT. ROOF - DAY

Walter sits stock still in the wheelchair drenched with sweat,

eyes closed, praying.

Dave obliges. He looks at McCall with eyes that have lost

the battle for sanity. McCall is momentarily frozen by those

eyes. Beads of sweat have formed on his forehead.

Dave starts to look over into the street, he tips Walter

forward, Walter shrieks in mortal fear. White knuckles the

armrests of his wheelchair and then:

McCall even surprises himself with that one. It was a sheer

act of desperation. He holds his breath and waits to see

what the effect is. Dave turns back around.

EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT

Roper's truck comes speeding down the street, lurches to a

halt. He leaps out and speaks to a FIREMAN.

EXT. ROOF - DAY

McCall nods slowly. Sweat pouring off him.

A glimmer from Dave. Maybe McCall is a kindred spirit.

Now he's got Dave's interest. McCall slowly takes out his

beeper.

Dave listens to his head.

Dave tries to feel for particles. Tears form in Dave's eyes.

Dave is suddenly lost in thought again. His expression turns

to a frown:

Then with sudden swiftness.

Dave pushes the wheelchair forward. McCall LUNGES for the

wheelchair but doesn't make it. Walter SCREAMS as he falls.

WALTER AND HIS WHEELCHAIR

freefall down toward earth in SLOW MOTION. The wheelchair

turns end over end. People SCREAM as Walter IMPACTS with the

pavement. The wheelchair CRASHES down nearby.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. ROOF - DAY

McCall looks over the edge at Walter's twisted body below.

Then he grabs Dave and wrestles him down, cuffing his hands

behind his back. The Cops and Medical Staff Members rush out

to restrain.

INT. LOBBY - DAY

The crowd is dispersing. Roper is talking with some of the

other cops. McCall storms out of the Vet Hospital and down

the stairs. Roper moves toward him.

No response. McCall gets into his ND Sedan car and fires it

up.

Roper races over and manages to jump in just as the car

screeches away from the curb.

BAY BRIDGE - DAY

McCall doesn't even seem to have registered that Roper is in

the car with him. He drives. Stone-faced. Roper studies him

for a beat.

INT. CAR - DAY

Moving POV thru windshield of car, we see a freeway sign

that says "Golden Gate Racetrack."

EXT. RACETRACK

Establish grand stands.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. BETTING AREA - DAY

McCall pounds over to the betting window. Roper leans up

against the window beside him. Watches.

This throws McCall for a beat.

The teller punches out the ticket. McCall takes the ticket

and pounds over to box seat area. Roper follows a couple of

steps behind, giving him some space.

EXT. BOX SEAT AREA - DAY

McCall sits down in the same box as the last time. Roper

sits down next to him.

EXT. TRACK - DAY

The horses go into the gate.

EXT. BOX SEAT AREA - DAY

McCall watches intently as the horses spring from the gate.

(The track announcer's call plays over the scene.)

Roper isn't watching the horse. He's watching McCall. Watching

him redirect all his pent up emotion. Understanding exactly

how he feels.

McCall is screaming his head off.

The horses cross the wire. The four and seven finish mid-

pack. McCall hangs his head in despair. He didn't give a

shit about the race. He looks inconsolable.

A long silent beat.

McCall squeezes his eyes closed. He can still see that vet

falling to his death. Roper can see McCall's pain.

McCall hears him but is still undecided.

Roper gets up, stands over McCall, puts a hand on his

shoulder.

McCall slowly gets up and they walk out.

INT. JAIL - DAY

It's a small interview room. Korda sits opposite bail bondsman

JOHN HAWKINS (white, grizzled, forty).

Hawkins gets up and goes to the door.

Hawkins looks at him skeptically for a beat. Then pulls out

his BUSINESS CARD and hands it to him. He walks out the door

as we HOLD on Korda -- pocketing the card.

EXT. POSTRIO - NIGHT

Establishing shot.

INT. POSTRIO - NIGHT

CLOSE-UP of a glass of wine being poured. PULL BACK to reveal

Roper and Ronnie all dressed up for a special evening. The

waiter hovers as Roper tastes the wine.

Roper looks at him a long beat.

The waiter retreats. Roper looks across the table at Ronnie

as she sips her wine.

She didn't realize that. Now she's getting nervous.

Now she's really worried.

Roper reaches into his coat pocket.

He pulls out two airline tickets.

Ronnie is immensely relieved.

Roper notices her relief and for the first time realizes

what she was thinking.

Ronnie averts her eyes, a bit embarrassed.

Roper picks up his menu and peruses it.

INT. HALLWAY JAIL - DAY CLOSE ON

The wheels of a laundry cart, moving slowly down the hall. A

white metal door slides open, and the cart passes through.

INT. PROPERTY ROOM JAIL - CONTINUOUS

As the cart rolls into the room TILT UP to see

KORDA

pushing the cart. He stops. A GUARD (guard #3) stands with

his back to Korda. He's on the phone.

As the guard continues, Korda hangs several garment bags,

zipped and tagged, onto an ELECTRIC TROLLEY -- similar to

the kind used by dry-cleaners to move clothing.

Korda pushes a button and the trolley STARTS TO MOVE. The

guard, still on the phone, buzzes open the door.

ON THE GUARDS BACK

We hear Korda wheeling the cart out the door.

CLOSE ANGLE

on the door sliding shut.

ON THE GUARDS BACK - CLOSE

Hold a beat. PANNING SLOWLY around the room to FIND -- suit

bag's moving on the trolley. BOOM DOWN to FIND Korda's feet

just as they lift off the ground and disappear behind the

bags.

ANGLE ON KORDA

hanging onto the trolley as it moves along the wall and then

down through an opening in the floor and into...

INT. BASEMENT JAIL - CONTINUOUS

as it loops around a large room, carrying him toward the

back wall. The metal ridges of the trolley CUT into his

fingers, drawing blood. Then he drops down, and quietly

rummages through other bags of clothing. He tries on a pair

of pants but they come up to his ankles. He looks like he's

about to go wading. As he rips them off and reaches for

another pair...

INT. LONG HALLWAY JAIL - LATER

Korda appears around a corner, dressed in street clothes,

holding a CLIPBOARD -- moving steadily toward camera.

KORDA'S POV - DOWN THE HALLWAY

A female civilian EMPLOYEE heading in his direction. As they

pass he nods and she nods back. Then Korda passes through a

door at the end of the hallway and into...

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. CELL BLOCK - CONTINUOUS

The door closes behind him and locks with the loud SNAP of

metal.

Slowly, with deliberate steps, he moves down the corridor

toward the door at the other end, past the first GUARD (guard

#3) -- enclosed in bullet proof glass.

TRACKING - KORDA'S FEET

step by step. The voices of prisoners, muffled behind thick

glass.

CLOSE ON KORDA'S FACE

trying to stay cool, his heart pounding. Then...

Korda FREEZES, then slowly turns to FIND... A prison GUARD

(#1) moving toward him.

THE GUARD POV - MOVING CLOSER AND CLOSER TO KORDA

The guard then stops in front of him and holds up his hand.

Korda takes THE CARD given to him by the bail bondsman.

Korda turns and walks out the door into...

INT. SECURITY ROOM - CONTINUOUS

It's the final step before getting out of the building. A

small room with another GUARD (Latino; guard #2) behind glass,

and several TV monitors. A BLACK WOMAN (forty-five) is arguing

with a LATINO GUARD.

Korda, fidgeting behind the woman impatiently, holds up his

card...

The guard shoves the sheet under the glass.

Korda signs the sheet. The guard pushes a button. The metal

lock SNAPS, and the door POPS open. Korda takes his card and

sticks it in the woman's coat pocket.

And Korda walks out.

EXT. JAIL SALLY PORT - CONTINUOUS

It's a small parking area, with security gates on either

end, and a ceiling of heavy steel wire open to the sky. There

are three or four CARS parked against the wall. Korda checks

inside the first car, looking for keys and finds none. Then

the second, and the third until...

Korda turns sharply to find the LATINO GUARD (guard #2),

holding a clipboard, walking quickly toward him.

The guard walks up to him. They're standing between the cars.

As the guard shows him the sign-in sheet, Korda removes the

PEN from his own clipboard.

In a flash, Korda PLUNGES the pen DEEP into the guard's

throat. The BLOOD jumps out of his throat, onto the window

of the car as the guard, gagging in stunned silence, slumps

to ground. He then falls backward between the two cars,

drowning in his own blood.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. RONNIE'S HOUSE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Empty. New front door. Unpainted. Frame splintered from when

Roper shot it open. We hold a beat... HEAR ROPER & RONNIE

coming up the stairs. Laughing. The door opens. They enter.

Roper closes the door.

Ronnie suddenly remembers something.

She walks back toward the kitchen. Roper takes a seat on the

couch. Flips on the TV. Rubs the back of his neck.

FOLLOWING RONNIE

She moves down the hall to the kitchen.

But Paco isn't lying on his pillow like she expected. Curious.

She turns around walks back down the hall... Where could he

be?... She walks into the bedroom.

He's not in here either... She walks back into the hallway.

Frowns.

SUDDEN CUT

A figure leaps out of the bathroom doorway!... Big scare.

It's Paco. He nearly knocked her over. He stands on his hind

legs, paws on her shoulders. Breathing in her face.

RACK FOCUS

Roper standing at the other end of the hallway. Tense as a

wire. Gun at his side. One look at his demeanor tells Ronnie

something is very wrong.

Roper untenses. Puts away his gun.

Her voice trails off. He can see she's worried now, too.

He puts his arms around her waist.

She puts her arms around his shoulders.

EXT. RONNIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

ANGLE looking up at her window... The light goes out.

EXT. RONNIE'S DOORSTEP - DAY

A suitcase THUMPS to the ground. Looks like somebody packed

for a six month trip around the world.

ANGLE WIDENS

McCall grimaces as he lugs the bag toward the truck.

Ronnie stands on the doorstep.

Paco is on the sidewalk exploring from tree to tree. Roper

calls to Ronnie from the stairway.

INT. STAIRWAY - DAY

Roper is still very edgy.

She climbs up the stairs toward him.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. RONNIE'S HALLWAY - SAME

Roper reaches the top of the stairs.

INT. RONNIE'S APT. - SAME

Roper moves into the room, listening. There's no response.

She doesn't answer. He calls out again, moving through the

living room.

No answer, the room is very quiet. Roper eases his PISTOL

out from under his shirt, moving more urgently now, checking

out the bathroom, bedroom...

Then he HEARS Paco, WHINING. He moves around the entrance to

the kitchen. The back door is open, Paco standing in the

doorway. Roper rushes forward, quickly looking outside, the

alley way empty. He senses a presence behind him, spinning...

McCall standing in the doorway to the kitchen.

Roper's lowers the weapon...

McCall sees on the kitchen table, a folded piece of GLASSINE

PAPER, just like the one Korda gave Roper at the jewelry

store.

Roper sees it, approaching, barely able to unfold the edges,

a momentary tremble in his hand.

We PUSH IN as his fingers open the paper... revealing inside

a MICRO CASSETTE TAPE.

CLOSE ON a TAPE RECORDER, Korda's VOICE heard over the

speaker.

Roper and McCall are listening closely to the tape.

Roper punches off the tape.

Roper stares at him, the wheels beginning to turn...

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. POLICE PROPERTY/EVIDENCE ROOM - DAY

Roper is standing at the counter to the steel-caged property

room. On the other side is FRANK, the property sergeant on

duty. The two men speak in hushed, urgent tones...

Frank just stares at him, compassion and anger tearing at

him.

Frank continues to stare at him, a long beat.

He pushes back from the counter.

He turns and walks away. Roper looks down, SEEING that the

drawer beneath Frank's counter has been left slightly open.

Roper reaches over, easing it further open -- inside a set

of KEYS. He looks around, then takes the keys.

He walks down the hallway.

INT. ROPER'S PICKUP - DAY

CLOSE ON the SATCHEL Korda used in the robbery.

WIDEN TO REVEAL Roper and McCall, Roper at the wheel, McCall

reading a folded MAP featuring MARE ISLAND.

Roper thinks a moment, then turns, looking out the back of

the pickup, in the bed a loose CANVAS TARPAULIN. He and McCall

study the tarp a beat, then turn, looking at each other...

EXT. MARE ISLAND - DAY

WIDE VIEW reveals the immensity of the abandoned facility.

At one end near the chain link fence, Roper's pickup

approaches the gate.

EXT. MARE ISLAND - NORTH GATE - DAY

Roper cautiously drives toward the gate -- the CHAIN securing

the gate has been cut. Roper swings open the gate.

As he drives past we see that the bed of the truck has been

loosely covered with a TARP.

Roper drives on, winding through the maze of roadways, huge

buildings and equipment dwarfing the truc PRODUCTION NOTE:

The idea is to take us into the facility to sell that it's

abandoned, immense, eerie in it's scale -- a ghost town. We

end up wherever we want for the next scene.

INT. ROPER'S PICKUP - DAY

As he rounds a corner, approaching the dry dock area, huge

CRANES and mothballed SHIPS in the b.g. He parks near a

building, a weathered SIGN reading: BLD 28. Roper shuts off

the engine, leaving the keys in the ignition. Taking the

satchel he opens the door.

EXT. DRY DOCK AREA - DAY

Roper steps out, eyes scanning the buildings, the cranes...

Korda could be anywhere up there, watching.

INT. BUILDING - UPPER LEVEL - DAY

KORDA'S POV through the filthy windows, Roper far below,

standing beside his pickup.

EXT. ROPER - DAY

As he moves away from the truck, holding the satchel.

In response he HEARS Korda's VOICE, eerie, almost a whisper,

coming from everywhere and nowhere as if emanating from the

ground and the buildings all at once.

Roper complies, his eyes searching the buildings, where is

his voice coming from?

Roper SEES a chained off section nearby. Roper takes a few

steps when Korda's voice stops him...

A momentary anxious look from Roper, then he walks to the

bed of the truck, pausing a moment, gripping the cover before

whipping it back, revealing... Ronnie's LUGGAGE.

LOW ANGLE BENEATH THE TRUCK

McCall supported under the frame by a makeshift HARNESS around

his waist and legs.

McCall watches as Roper heads away, then releases the harness,

lowering himself to the ground. Quickly he moves the SMOKING

LEATHER GLOVES he was wearing, burned by contact with the

hot exhaust pipe.

ROPER

Reaches the the chained area, REVEALING an empty DRY DOCK,

easily one hundred feet deep and five hundred long.

At the bottom of the dry dock is a PORTABLE RADIO, the

acoustics of natural amphitheater so intense you could hear

a whisper -- the source of Korda's voice.

Roper tosses his PISTOL into the dry dock.

Roper removes the PISTOL from his ankle HOLSTER, tossing it.

Korda's VOICE cuts the eerie silence.

The RADIO CLICKS OFF.

Roper walks towards the megalith CRANES, passing under them,

then heads down the alleyway created by the tall buildings.

EXT. ROPER'S TRUCK - DAY LOW ANGLE BENEATH THE TRUCK

McCall, his RIFLE CASE on his chest, watches as Roper turns

the corner and heads down the alley way.

OUTSIDE THE TRUCK

McCall rolls out, scrambling for the cover of the building.

Slinging the case over his shoulder he finds a LADDER leading

up the side of the building, beginning to climb.

EXT. ROPER - DAY

Walking down the alley way, nearing the end.

EXT. ROOFTOP - BUILDING - DAY

McCall moving along the edge, looking down. He spots Roper,

moving fast to keep him in sight.

He comes to the edge of the building, having to walk across

a narrow RAMP to get to the next building.

He looks down, Roper turning the corner, McCall moves on,

removing the RIFLE from its case as he goes.

EXT. ROPER - DAY

Leaves the alleyway, a complex of hanger-like buildings

revealed. To his far right is a building, a SIGN reading:

BLD 36. He clutches the satchel, heading towards it.

EXT. ROOFTOP - BUILDING - DAY

McCall negotiating another precarious crossing between

buildings. He spots Roper, eyes quickly searching the roof

tops and buildings for the sniper's position. He sees it,

across the way, a location covering the buildings where Roper

is now walking. He heads out.

EXT. ROPER - DAY

Walking towards building 36, passing by a towering, glass

fronted building on his right, his eyes are searching the

roof tops of the buildings around him.

As Roper passes a set of partially open ROLLING DOORS to the

glass-fronted building, he's startled by Korda's VOICE from

within:

Roper's eyes go to building 36, still fifty yards away.

Roper stops, slowly turning towards the doors.

Roper hesitates. He turns a bit in profile, eyes searching.

EXT. HIGH VANTAGE POINT - DAY

POV TELESCOPIC SIGHT: Focusing on Roper, his lips moving...

McCall, heaving for breath, has just dropped down into

position, providing a view of Roper and the inside of the

glass fronted building.

He touches the LASER SIGHTING attachment to his scope, a red

beam activated...

ROPER - DAY

From inside the building Korda's VOICE:

Just as Roper starts to move he SEES the red laser DOT on

the back of his hand -- McCall is up there, right behind

him. Roper moves inside.

MCCALL - DAY

Lying prone inside the operator's booth, steadies his RIFLE,

looking through the scope.

TELESCOPIC POV: He can see Roper enter, his field of vision

limited inside the building where the light penetrates, the

room cast in HARD SHADOWS.

He MOVES to the windows, all either painted white or so

obscured with grime and dirt he can only see vague shapes

and shadows inside. He MOVES BACK to the opening, Roper now

just inside.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

Cavernous and dark, a jungle of huge MACHINES, LATHES and

EQUIPMENT once used in the design of nuclear submarines.

Roper moves a few feet inside, remaining in the light and

keeping his face in three-quarter profile to McCall's

position.

From the darkness beyond...

Roper walks to a steel SHOP TABLE.

Roper puts down the satchel, unbuttoning his shirt, holding

it open.

Roper opens the bag, the JEWELRY and the dozens of GLASSINE

ENVELOPES spill out onto the table. He lays the satchel on

its side, the bottom facing Roper. Taped to the bottom is a

short barreled .45 AUTOMATIC.

Roper spreads the pile out across the top of the table.

A long beat...

Without looking Roper reaches to the pile of GLASSINE

ENVELOPES...

CLOSE ON ROPER'S HAND

Palmed in his hand, the ENVELOPE containing Ronnie's diamond.

Roper, without looking, 'digs' into the pile, holding up the

GLASSINE ENVELOPE between his fingers, still holding the

palmed envelope. He starts to toss the envelope in his

fingers...

Roper hesitates, then drops the envelope, his hand moving

over the pile...

Roper reaches for the envelope.

CLOSE ON ROPER'S HAND

As he flips the palmed envelope into his fingers with the

skill of a card shark, exchanging it for the one Korda

indicated. He tosses it across the room...

From the shadows Korda's hand reaches out, picking it up. A

long beat.

Korda LAUGHS as he slowly emerges from the darkness.

EXT. MCCALL'S TELESCOPIC POV - DAY

On the floor he SEES a shadow cast - Korda. He moves to the

windows... inside the vague, blurred OUTLINE of a man. His

scope goes back to the satchel and the .45 taped to the

bottom.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

Korda moves closer to the light, tossing an ATHLETIC BAG to

Roper, in his hand an AUTOMATIC PISTOL.

Roper slides the jewels into the second bag, eyeing the .45

on the bottom of the satchel.

Roper hesitates, but all he can do at this point is play for

time, he moves forward...

EXT. MCCALL'S POV - DAY TELESCOPIC SCOPE

Watching Roper as he moves away from the satchel and the

gun.

He moves the SCOPE ahead of Roper, SEEING Korda's shadow

cast on the floor, still unable to see him.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

Roper growing closer to Korda's position.

Roper hangs onto the bag -- there's 'four million in jewels'

in there -- all he has to bargain with.

Korda reacts in mock surprise.

A LIGHT SWITCH is thrown, a bank of lights behind him coming

ON, illuminating a massive FLAT BED CIRCULAR LATHE. Roper's

eyes in horror go to...

RONNIE

Tied to the lathe bed spread eagle. Some distance from her

body a CUTTING DEVICE is positioned over the lathe bed.

Roper looks into Ronnie's terrified eyes.

He turns back, Korda grinning at him.

Korda swings into position a CONTROL BOX, the buttons held

down with TAPE.

Korda pulls free the tape, the huge lathe beginning to TURN,

very slowly, the cutting device activated... if the table

keeps turning, Ronnie's body will soon be under the blade.

(PRODUCTION NOTE: Lathe will be cutting into a section of

steel plate, demonstrating what will happen to Ronnie.

Korda presses the STOP BUTTON, the lathe stopping. He releases

his finger again, the lathe turning. He stops it.

We can see that Korda is immensely proud of his 'creation',

his focus more on sadistic payback than anything else at

this point.

He releases the button, the lathe turning towards the cutting

device. He stops it again, holding the button.

He eases towards Roper, extending his arm on the control

box, holding the button down.

EXT. MCCALL'S POV - DAY

Through the SCOPE, he can see Korda as he steps into view.

The CROSSHAIRS settle on Korda's upper forehead.

His finger tightens on the trigger...

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

Korda holds the control box towards Roper.

He releases the button and the box, the lathe turning, Korda

grinning at Roper...

EXT. MCCALL'S POV - DAY

The RED DOT centered on Korda's forehead...

And then Roper's HEAD fills the scope, the red dot GLOWING

on the back of his head.

In shock, McCall releases his finger...

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

Roper moving to the control box, pressing the stop button,

stopping the lathe...

Roper looks at the box, Ronnie's life literally in his

hands...

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. MCCALL'S POV - DAY

Through the SCOPE, Roper's head blocking the shot to Korda.

EXT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

But Korda bends down, picking up the BAG, stepping back away

from Roper, clearly out of McCall's line of fire.

As Korda walks down the corridor of the huge machine shop,

we now SEE a CAR parked near the end facing us. Korda suddenly

stops, turning, gesturing to the car.

He shakes his head at Roper.

He turns, walking quickly towards his car, TALKING, LAUGHING,

to himself.

Roper looks to the car, then back at the SATCHEL where the

.45 is still taped to the bottom. But Roper can't move, unable

to change his position more than a foot or two. He looks

around him, no way to stop the lathe if he releases the

button.

EXT. MCCALL'S POV - DAY

He can see Roper holding the box, but nothing else.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

Now Korda reaches his car, hopping inside, STARTING it up.

In desperation Roper looks back at the satchel, then turns,

calling out...

Korda REVVING the engine...

EXT. MCCALL'S POV - DAY

McCall reading Roper's lips...

He swings the SCOPE up but the back of the machine shop is

blocked by his vantage point.

Then he HEARS the faint SQUEALING of tires. He lowers his

scope, holding, waiting...

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

Korda at the end of the long building, beginning to

accelerate.

ROPER

Turns toward McCall's position...

The CAR now screaming down the long corridor...

EXT. MCCALL'S POV - DAY

McCall still can't see the car...

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

The car now closing in on Roper, but Roper holds his ground...

INT. KORDA'S CAR - DAY

Korda bearing down on Roper.

ROPER

Holding his position, eyes widening in fear...

EXT. MCCALL'S TELESCOPIC POV - DAY

The CAR comes into view, the CROSSHAIRS on the windshield...

but the glare off the window is obscuring any shot of Korda.

McCall takes aim and FIRES...

INT. KORDA'S CAR - DAY

The bullet punches through the window, catching Korda's left

shoulder, BLOOD flying. Korda whips the wheel in shock...

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY KORDA'S CAR

Spinning out of control, hitting a table piled with MACHINE

PARTS, sending them flying...

But the car is now swapping ends, still flying right towards

Roper, who can't move...; who won't move.

The car flies past him, the SIDE MIRROR catching Roper's

shirt, tearing it, a flash of BLOOD from his arm...

The car then collides with a series of PIPES crossing the

floor, STEAM erupting in every direction as the car then

slams into several PROPANE BOTTLES stacked near the benches,

a series of EXPLOSIONS ripping through the building. . .

ROPER

Thrown to the floor by the explosions, releasing the button,

as...

THE CAR

Hits the GLASSED-IN ROLLING DOORS.

EXT. MCCALL'S POV - DAY

The CAR explodes from the building, GLASS FLYING, the car

rolling, flipping over, coming to a rest on its wheels,

driver's side away from McCall's position.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY ROPER

On the floor, recovering. He catches a quick glimpse of the

bottom section of the lathe, a GEARBOX, the gears turning...

THE LATHE

Turning, the cutting blade inching towards Ronnie...

ROPER

Staggers to his feet, grabbing the control box, pressing the

button... nothing happens, the lathe still turning, SPARKS

coming out of the box, it's SHORTING... Only a few more

seconds...

Desperately his eyes search the floor, SEEING a HUGE WRENCH.

He grabs the wrench, jamming it between the GEARS in the

gearbox, the gears shuddering violently, threatening to crush

the wrench...

Roper runs to Ronnie's side, frantically pulling at her bonds,

the cutting blade now paused an inch away from her...

THE GEARBOX

Hammering and clanking, the wrench can't last a heartbeat

longer...

ROPER

Pulls the last of the restraints away...

THE GEARBOX

Just as the massive gears crush the wrench, the table

turning...

THE LATHE

The blade passing directly over Ronnie's position as Roper

hauls her away, holding her in his arms.

EXT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY MCCALL'S TELESCOPIC POV OF CAR

Korda is slumped over the wheel. He looks dead. McCall slings

his rifle over his shoulder and moves towards a DRAIN PIPE

attached to the side of the building.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

Roper holding Ronnie, easing her away from the still turning

lathe.

EXT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY

McCall slides to the ground via the drain pipe, but...

KORDA'S CAR

Korda is not quite dead...

The door eases open, Korda rolling to the ground, bag in one

hand, AUTOMATIC in the other. He looks up, SEEING McCall.

He OPENS FIRE, McCall hitting the deck and taking cover as

BULLETS hit the wall around him.

McCall whips out his REVOLVER, RETURNING FIRE, a GUN BATTLE

ensuing.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY ROPER

HEARING the shots outside, hauls Ronnie out of the way,

keeping her low to the ground.

He pushes her towards the cover of some machines, then

crouching low to the floor, recovers the .45 from the bottom

of the satchel. He heads out towards the other side of the

cavernous, machine-choked building.

EXT. MACHINE SHOP - DAY MCCALL

FIRES a round at Korda, then trying to close in on the car,

runs from his cover into the opening...

KORDA

Leaps up and FIRES, McCall taking a slug in his leg, knocking

him to the ground. The SLIDE to Korda's AUTOMATIC has kicked

open, out of bullets. He drops the gun, picks up the BAG and

runs alongside the machine shop.

ROPER

Exits the machine shop, SEEING McCall on the ground, Korda

nowhere in sight. Combat-style Roper runs to McCall, dropping

to his side.

Roper sprints towards the building, racing alongside it,

catching a glimpse of Korda just as he disappears around the

other end. Roper charges on...

EXT. MACHINE SHOP - REAR - DAY

Korda runs past the building, still clutching the BAG. He

runs past another building, heading towards the dry dock

area and Roper's pickup. A moment later Roper emerges from

the machine shop just in time to see Korda round the corner

of the next building.

KORDA

Clearing the building sees Roper's PICKUP. He runs to it,

jumping inside, finding the KEYS in the ignition. He starts

the truck, pulling out, just as Roper runs into view.

ROPER

With the truck accelerating towards him he raises and FIRES,

two bullet holes in the front WINDSHIELD, missing Korda, the

truck still speeding towards him. Roper's gun jams. Roper

leaps, sliding forward on the hood, almost falling as he

grabs on to the empty window frame and the windshield wiper

blades for support, his WEAPON flying from his hand.

KORDA

Speeds around the buildings and down the alleyways, whipping

from side to side, trying to shake Roper off, Roper hanging

on for dear life.

Korda can't help but look at the OPEN BAG beside him.

Korda reaches in, grabbing a handful of the COSTUME JEWELRY.

He can't believe it, it's all fake!

Korda goes crazy, slamming the truck into the side of a

building, trying to throw Roper, but Roper hangs on.

Korda then caroms off the sides of buildings, left, right,

SPARKS flying, then smashes into BOXES, CRATES, anything he

can see stacked alongside the road way, but Roper stays put,

clinging on with all he's got, swinging from side to side to

avoid the obstacles.

Then Korda SEES ahead a huge pile of BOXES, WOOD FRAMING,

PALLETS, TRASH, stacked at the side of a building. He hammers

the pedal, driving the right side of the truck into the

pile... BOXES, WOOD, PAPER, DEBRIS flying everywhere, through

the open fron window as well, Korda shielding his eyes with

his arm as OBJECTS fly around in a mad flurry inside the

cab...

ROPER

In the maelstrom lets go his grip, grabbing the upper frame

of the window and assisted by the speed of the truck, rolls

over the top of the cab, landing in the bed of the truck

along with BOXES, LUMBER, and TRASH.

KORDA

Clears his eyes, looking up, Roper is gone! He LAUGHS

hysterically... he knocked him off!

ROPER IN THE BED OF THE TRUCK

Leaning out the passenger's side SEES they are approaching

the dry dock area.

In the bed of the truck, along with the BOXES, SUITCASES and

other objects, he sees several long 2x4's. Grabbing a BOARD

he braces himself against the cab and then in one swift

movement, stands, swinging to the driver's side, driving the

2x4 through the side window, through the steering wheel,

past the dash and catching the tip of the ACCELERATOR PEDAL,

pinning it to the floor.

As Roper releases the board it WEDGES inside the door frame,

locking the wheel and the accelerator, the engine SCREAMING

wide open. Korda reacts in panic...

Roper clings to the cab, looking over the top, the DRY DOCK

looming towards them. He prepares to jump...

KORDA

Suddenly SEES the approaching dry dock. He jams on the brakes,

but it's not enough, the truck racing towards the edge...

IN SLOW MOTION THE TRUCK

Vaults over the edge of the dry dock as Roper runs down the

bed, leaping off the tail gate, arms windmilling as he goes

airborne...

The truck plummets towards the bottom...

ROPER

Lands in a huge pile of CARGO NETS and CARDBOARD BOXES, piled

near the edge of the dry dock...

KORDA

SCREAMS in wide-eyed terror as...

THE TRUCK

Hits the bottom of the dock, EXPLODING into flames.

EXT. TAHITI - DAY

Roper and Ronnie lay on a gorgeous white sand beach, drinking

from coconuts with umbrellas in them.

Roper hails a waitress, serving the hotel guests.

Roper stretches back into his chaise lounge, adjusting his

Ray Bans. A purring cat without a care in the world.

TWO GORGEOUS FRENCH GIRLS unstring their bikinis, flopping

topless on the beach in front of them.

Uh-oh. He removes his shades to get a better look at the

curve ball.

She laughs her amazing laugh.

AD LIBS dialogue below as CAMERA CRANES BACK and we ROLL

CREDITS over...

Over her laughter we...

