<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Midnight Cowboy by Waldo Salt

FADE IN:

INT. TV STUDIO - DAY

A Susskind-type MODERATOR is speaking into camera:

EXT. SIDEWALK INTERVIEW - DAY

An IRATE WOMAN speaks into camera:

EXT. SIDEWALK INTERVIEW - DAY

A COOL WOMAN speaks into camera:

EXT. SIDEWALK INTERVIEW - DAY

A SAD WOMAN speaks into camera:

INT. CAFETERIA SCULLERY (TEXAS) - DAY

Full frame -- a scandal sheet picture of a sex-starved wife,

naked while her husband sleeps, captioned I BUY WHAT MY

HUSBAND CAN'T GIVE.

Camera pulls back to show the picture among other pinups of

women -- rich, beautiful or naked, but all blonde -- steam

wilted on the wall over a dishwashing machine. JOE BUCK grins

at the wall as he scrapes garbage.

MULTIPLE SPLIT SCREEN

A LADY COMMENTATOR, gradually surrounded by lonely women...

The Lady Commentator is replaced by Joe, stacking dishes,

surrounded by frustrated ladies. He laughs tolerantly.

INT. TV STUDIO - DAY

The Moderator smiles into camera.

INT. STALL SHOWER - DAY

Joe sings as he soaps himself, "Whoopee ti yi yo, git along

little dogies, for you know New York will be your new home!"

Sound and image freeze on Joe's open mouth.

SUPERIMPOSED MAIN TITLE AND CREDITS

TITLES follow as indicated, sound and action continuing after

each credit.

INT. SUNSHINE CAFETERIA - DAY

Joe's song continues over a sweating WAITRESS, glancing up.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Wrapped in a towel, singing in front of his dresser mirror,

Joe sprays himself with deodorant, aiming a last playful

blast at the unseen crotch -- freezing song and image as

CREDITS continue over...

... a calendar girl on the wall blushing orange, mouth frozen

in a tiny O, staring wide-eyed. Joe's song continues as...

... Joe rips the wrapping from a new Stetson and sets it on

his head, freezing song and image as CREDITS continue.

INT. CAFETERIA SCULLERY - DAY

RALPH, an aging black man, faces a mountain of dirty dishes.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Singing as he buttons his new cowboy shirt, Joe interrupts

himself to answer Ralph...

... continuing his song as he pulls up and zips his tight

thighed black slacks, freezing song and image for CREDITS.

INT. REMEMBERED BEAUTY PARLOR - ANOTHER TIME

SALLY BUCK, a pretty middle-aged blonde, smiles down at

camera,

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Joe sings as he pulls on his new cowboy boots, arranging his

cuffs to show off the yellow sunburst at the ankle, freezing

song and image for CREDITS.

INT. SUNSHINE CAFETERIA - DAY

The pink MANAGER scowls at his pocket watch.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Joe hums as he piles a complete wardrobe of cowboy clothes,

still in their wrappers, into a shiny new suitcase of black

and white horsehide.

INT. SUNSHINE CAFETERIA - DAY

Holding his watch, the Manager wags a finger at camera.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Joe laughs as he locks his suitcase.

Joe picks up his suitcase, a portable transistor radio, walks

away from the mirror, then pauses to run a comb through his

hair, hook a cigarette at the corner of his mouth and strike

a match on his thumbnail before he turns back for one

admiring glance at himself in the mirror -- proud, exultant,

ready -- freezing the image as CREDITS END.

EXT. TEXAS TOWN MAIN STREET - DAY

Joe leaves the hotel, carrying his suitcase.

INT. CAFETERIA SCULLERY - DAY

The pink Manager points at his watch angrily.

Angle widens to include Joe, holding his suitcase and radio.

Ralph stares at him curiously, stacking dishes.

The Manager hurries away, carrying a basket of dishes.

Joe tilts his Stetson as the Waitress appears at the door...

... but she disappears without noticing Joe. Ralph offers his

hand. Joe takes it, holds it.

INT. SUNSHINE CAFETERIA - DAY

The door marked EMPLOYEES ONLY swings open and Joe appears,

measuring his effect on the customers and his fellow

employees as he crosses the sterile white dining room,

observing the drab details of the life he has left behind -

garbage on greasy dishes, limp food in steam table trays,

coffee-soaked cigarette butts, caked mustard and ketchup on

formica table tops -- two pimply high school girls slurping

suggestive noises after Joe through the straws of empty coke

glasses. O.S. a Tiomkin-tradition chorus sings, "From this

valley they say you are going -- we will miss your bright

eyes and sweet smile for they say you are taking the

sunshine..."

EXT. TOWN MAIN STREET - DAY

The song ends as Joe comes from the cafeteria "... that

brightened our pathway a while."

From a high angle -- Joe starts his long walk toward the bus

depot along the street of a small Western town struggling to

urbanize itself. The click-clack-click of his boots is loud

but somehow lonely The radio at his ear drones grain prices

on the Commodity change. Joe's pace slows as he passes...

EXT. SALLY BUCK'S BEAUTY SALON - DAY

... a gilt-lettered sign in the window, glittering in the

sun, momentarily hiding the fact that the shop is deserted.

Joe grins as he hears remembered sounds and voices incomplete

flashes, more significant in tone than content a girl

giggling sexily -- "Keep your meat hooks off my beauty

operators, sugar" -- tinkling noises of a busy beauty parlor

- Sally Buck singing "Hush, little baby, don't say a word,

Grammaw gonna buy you a mockingbird..."

... a shift of light revealing a row of tarnished driers, a

broken mirror, a FOR RENT sign in the window. Joe turns

toward the bus depot, radio pressed to his ear.

At the same moment, a recognizable variant of the "Big

Country" theme blares loud.

INTERCUT WESTERN FILM CLIP

Gary Cooper (or John Wayne) walks a frontier street.

EXT. BUS DEPOT - DAY

High angle of the departing bus, intercut "Big Country"

fashion, alternating high shots with close-ups of the bus

wheals.

EXT. FREEWAY CLOVERLEAF - DAY

Through the bus windshield -- a dizzying montage of traffic

lines, arrows and signs as the bus sweeps around and up onto

the freeway.

INT. BUS - DAY

Joe sits at the front, opposite the driver, cracking his gum

as he watches the huge billboards streaking by, promising him

power, happiness and beautiful women if he chooses the right

breakfast food, hair oil or automobile. Joe listens to the

humming tires, the roar of the engine, shaking his head.

Ignored by the driver, Joe rises and walks back to his empty

double seat, glancing around to see what impression he's made

on his immediate fellow travelers -- an OLD LADY in front of

him -- a hostile young sailor with acne behind him -- two

teeny-boppers flirting with Joe hysterically -- a PALE BLONDE

directly across the aisle, smiling at Joe weakly.

Joe leans across, snapping his gum as he offers her a stick.

He watches her nibble it daintily on her front teeth.

Joe realizes that her eyes are closed. Mildly depressed, he

stretches himself across both seats and turns on his radio,

finds only static and snaps it off. Further depressed, he

examines his reflection in the bus window, squeezes a black

head and runs the comb through his hair, picks a piece of

tobacco off his tooth and lights a cigarette, watching the

flame die in reflection, forgetting to discard the burnt-out

match as he stares out at a vast lonely prairie, a solitary

cowboy in the distance, a row of sharecropper shacks

apparently deserted, a barefoot little girl motionless at the

roadside, watching the bus pass. Through this, leading into

the next scene, Sally Buck sings softly "... if that mocking

bird don't sing, Grammaw gonna buy you a golden ring..."

INT. REMEMBERED BEAUTY SALON - ANOTHER TIME

Sally Buck, relaxing in the middle of a busy day, eyes closed

wearily, while little Joe massages her neck. Her song

continues over the noises of the busy beauty parlor "... if

that golden ring turns brass, Grammaw gonna buy you a looking

glass..."

INT. BUS - DAY

A seedy TRAVELING SALESMAN with badly-fitted dentures and a

frayed collar has taken the aisle seat next to Joe. As he

lectures Joe on salesmanship, he figures his expenses in a

worn leatherette notebook, nervous fingers and eyes

unconsciously revealing the extent of his failure.

INT. REMEMBERED BEAUTY SALON - ANOTHER TIME

A gawky, adolescent Joe sits sprawled on the couch, leafing

through a magazine while Sally Buck bleaches the roots of a

young woman's hair.

Sally Buck turns, pretending to be stern as Toe laughs.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The headlights of the bus flash past a huge sign, painted on

the slant roof of a barn: JESUS SAVES.

INT. BUS - NIGHT

Joe is alone again. The Salesman has disappeared. The bus is

dark, most-passengers trying to sleep. Only one reading light

still burns, over the head of the old-Lady in the seat ahead

of Joe. Joe squirms, restless, trying to lull himself to

sleep with the music of a revivalist gospel group on the

radio.

Joe leans forward to help the old Lady, irritably struggling

with the release button on her seat. She scowls as Joe leans

over to release her seat, then pulls her blanket around her

and turns away from him. Joe switches off her reading light.

Joe switches it on again, fakes a good-natured grin, settles

back with his radio, aware of an OLD COWHAND seated opposite

him, replacing the Pale Blonde. The Old Cowhand is appraising

Joe's wardrobe curiously. He looks away when he sees Joe

watching him. Joe settles back, unable to think of a way to

open a conversation.

The Old Cowhand has rolled-himself a cigarette. Joe quickly

lights a match on his thumb and holds it across the aisle.

The Old Cowhand's "thanks" is lost in a fit of coughing as he

inhales his first drag. He settles back, wiping his watery

eyes on a faded bandana.

Joe glances across the aisle. The Old Cowhand manages a

faint, humorless smile.

The Old Cowhand reappraises Joe's wardrobe even more

curiously.

The Old Cowhand considers, shakes his head. Joe leans back,

laughing to himself.

INT. REMEMBERED BEDROOM - ANOTHER TIME

Little Joe's head is lost in a beat-up cowboy hat, similar to

the one worn by the old Cowhand. Sally Buck smiles on WOODSY

NILES -- a long-legged cowboy with a shock of black hair --

who stands at her dressing table, admiring himself in a new

Stetson.

Woodsy grabs Sally Buck, lifting her off her feet, carrying

her to the bed. Struggling, they fall across the covers

together, Little Joe laughing with them.

INT. BUS - NIGHT

Joe shakes his head, grinning, offering the old Cowhand a

cigarette.

The old Cowhand shakes his head, showing the rolled cigarette

Joe lit for him. Joe nods, still bemused.

INT. REMEMBERED BEDROOM - ANOTHER TIME

Little Joe is cuddled in Sally Buck's arms, under the covers,

watching Woodsy, sitting cross-legged on the bed, naked

except for his Stetson and guitar, singing drunkenly.

EXT. MIDWEST TOWN - MORNING

From a high angle -- the bus slows to a stop.

INT. BUS - MORNING

Joe awakens, stiff-necked, momentarily confused. He

straightens in his seat as he sees the old Cowhand lifting a

sweat-stained saddle down from the overhead rack, starting

toward the front of the bus. Joe calls after him.

Joe stuffs a stick of gum in his mouth, turns to wave at the

Old Cowhand through the window as the bus pulls away.

INT. REMEMBERED MEN'S ROOM - ANOTHER TIME

Woodsy, in his new Stetson, watches Little Joe in his beat-up

cowboy hat, trying to balance on one foot, one leg lifted in

front of the trough. Woodsy roars with laughter.

INT. BUS RESTROOM - DAY

Joe laughs, flushes, checks his hair in the mirror.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The bus streaks past a brightly-colored billboard -- IN NEW

YORK, A WELCOME AWAITS YOU AT THE TIMES SQUARE PALACE HOTEL!

INT. BUS - DAY

Joe is now sitting in the wide rear seat, between two young

MARINES and a group of VETERANS wearing campaign caps and

convention buttons, passing a bottle, singing "From the Balls

of Montezuma to the Shores of Tripoli..." Joe follows the

conversation between a VETERAN and a MARINE, participating

only because he's sitting beside them, adopting a remembered

military stance.

INT. REMEMBERED WHOREHOUSE - ANOTEER TIME

A plump, aging PROSTITUTE laughs up into camera.

INT. BUS - DAY

Joe laughs as he passes the bottle, trying to sing along

without knowing the words as the Veterans segue into "Over

hill, over dale, we will hit the dusty trail, as the caissons

go rolling along..."

INT. REMEMBERED BEAUTY SALON - ANOTHER TIME

Sally Buck fondly wipes lipstick from Joe's lips.

INT. BUS - DAY

Joe slaps one of the Veterans on the back, trying to follow

the song into "Off we go, into the wild blue yonder..."

INT. REMEMBERED MOVIE HOUSE - ANOTHER TIME

ANASTASIA clutches a younger Joe, eyes wild, gasping.

INT. BUS - DAY

Joe is leaning across the two Marines, staring out of the

window as the Veterans switch to "Anchors aweigh, my boys,

anchors aweigh..."

EXT. MANHATTAN SKYLINE - DAY

A stunning view through the bus window past Joe's reflection.

EXT. BROADWAY PARADE - DAY

Drum majorettes leading the parade -- ticker tape and

confetti -- girls at skyscraper windows.

INTERCUT NEWSREEL CLIP

Charles Lindberg (or James Stewart) waving at the crowd.

EXT. NEW YORK HARBOR - DAY

Girls lining the piers -- flags, banners, bunting -- ship

horns, whistles, bells.

INT. BUS - DAY

Joe crowded as the veterans prepare to leave the bus, lifting

down banners and flags.

EXT. LINCOLN TUNNEEL - DAY

The bus suddenly surrounded by converging traffic, horns

honking, segueing into the noises of Times Square.

EXT. MARQUEE - DAY

Flag draped, reading: WELCOME VETERANS.

EXT. STREET - BANNER - DAY

Flapping in the wind -- WELCOME VETERANS!

EXT. TIMES SQUARE PALACE HOTEL - DAY

The marquee announces TRANSIENTS WELCOME. O.S. a singing

radio station break blares "W-I-N-S NEW YORK..."

EXT. RADIO TOWER - DAY

The sign flashes WINS "... ten-ten on your dial!" A torchy

woman's voice sings from a lonely echo chamber -- introducing

a love theme which will haunt Joe throughout the film.

INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY

Joe sets his radio on the dresser, his suitcase on the bed,

then turns to examine his new home -- as anonymous as his

Texas hotel room -- but boasting a coin-operated television

set. Fascinated, Joe inserts a quarter.

... the love song continues over a television talk Show

featuring a POODLE WIGMAKER defending his profession against

a Joe Pyne-type PANEL HOST, "...well, I perform a real

service, there's a need, so many people, you know, really

live in their pets, I mean, lonely, I grant you, but their

feeling is real. They want to lavish as much love, give them

as much, yes, pamper them like they were really human

children or whatever..."

INT. REMEMBERED PARLOR - ANOTHER TIME

Little Joe stares sullenly at an antique TV box while Sally

Buck puts her hat on at the fireplace mirror. There is a

framed picture of Woodsy Niles on the mantle.

INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY

Joe watches the Panel Host, "... you're a nut case, fella, a

real nut case..."

INT. REMEMBERED BEAUTY SALON - ANOTHER TIME

Little Joe massaging Sally Buck's neck -- continuing the

earlier scene.

INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY

Joe sits on the edge of the bed, watching the poodles primp.

INT. REMEMBERED PARLOR - ANOTEER TIME

Little Joe stares unblinking at the TV screen as Sally Buck

kisses him on the forehead, dressed for the street.

Sally Buck tucks a dollar bill under a framed picture of

Jesus, who has replaced Woodsy Niles on the mantle.

INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY

As a fairy godmother's magic wand removes sticky hair spray

from a pretty model's head, Joe's quarter runs out and the

screen goes blank. At the same moment, the love song is cut

off by a singing station break "W-I-N-S NEW YORK" Joe rises,

flipping the dial of the radio to a cultured woman's voice

reading "...the Dow Jones averages, brought you by Morgan

Vandercook. Up your income with sound investment

counseling..."

... but Joe leaves the lady on, savoring the expensive sound

of her voice reading the stock quotations. Joe seats himself

at the desk, pleased to find a postcard photograph of the

hotel. He picks up a ballpoint pen, counts ten floors up from

the street and marks a huge X -- THIS IS ME, then turns the

card over, pen poised over the address blank.

INT. CAFETERIA SCULLERY - DAY

Ralph stares at the card, surrounded by dirty dishes.

INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY

Joe's pen wavers, starts to write and stops.

EXT. SALLY BUCK'S BEAUTY PARLOR - DAY

As we saw it last, deserted, a FOR RENT sign in the window.

Joe's reflection appears, staring at himself, dressed in his

dishwasher's clothes.

INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY

Joe stares at the postcard, bemused,

Joe rises abruptly, rips up the postcard and tosses it out

the window.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - DAY

The torn fragments flutter down on the crowd -- a woman

brushing irritably at her hair -- a man grimacing, glancing

up -- a cop removing his hat to examine it.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE PALACE HOTEL - DAY

From a low angle -- identical with the postcard photograph --

an unseen hand scrawls a huge X--- THIS IS ME. Camera zooms

up to a close-up of Joe at the window.

EXT. FIFTH AVENUE - DAY

From on high -- as though Joe were watching himself -- the

Stetson moves through a crowd of Fifth Avenue shoppers...

EXT. GLASS BUILDING - DAY

... passing a glass bank, lady tellers counting money...

EXT. CAR SHOWROOM - DAY

... passing a display of imported luxury cars...

EXT. JEWELRY STORE - DAY

... passing a window which features a single gem -- pausing

as horns blast O.S. and a mod blonde in a stalled sports car

motions to Joe -- she needs a push. Joe grins, glances at

himself in the window, runs a comb through his hair, then

turns back to see a cop helping the mod blonde.

EXT. PARK AVENUE - DAY

Joe's heels drag as he walks a deserted block of luxury

apartment houses. O.S. The torchy woman's voice sings Joe's

love theme in counterpoint to the blasting horns, a siren, a

fire bell, a screech of brakes. Joe's spirits rise as he

hears the tic-tac-tic of high heels overtaking the heavy

click-clack-click of his boots. He adjusts his pace to arrive

at the corner at the same time as a smart and -- in Joe's

eyes -- very RICH LADY. Joe grins boyishly, holding his

Stetson over his heart.

The delicate profile gives no signs of hearing. Joe follows

her to the parkway in the middle of the avenue. There she

stops and turns, neither friendly nor hostile.

The Rich Lady tries to frown, taken aback, blushing.

A twinkle of amusement and sympathy reveals the age lines at

the corner of her eyes. Then she continues on quickly, just

as the light turns. Joe's view is blocked for a moment by

traffic, then he sees...

... the Rich Lady, newly aware of her flanks as she climbs

the steps of a brownstone and searches for her key. Still

from Joe's viewpoint, he sees himself move into frame and

follow the Rich Lady up the steps. The love theme swells O.S.

as the Rich Lady leads him into the house and closes the

door...

... leaving Joe standing alone on the parkway island,

surrounded by towering wealth. The love theme continues

over...

EXT. LEXINGTON AVENUE - DAY

... a pair of high-heeled pink slippers, walking a miniature

poodle -- slowing slightly, reacting to Joe's cowboy boots as

they pass, pause and turn back.

Joe grins, holding his hat over his heart as he approaches

CASS TREHUNE, a blonde lady in a tight black dress, with the

look of a movie star who wrecked her career with food.

But as she turns, Cass winks, dimpling the corners of her

mouth, signaling Joe to follow her.

INT. APARTMENT HOUSE ELEVATOR - DAY

Cass holds the DOOR OPEN button till Joe enters the elevator,

then the doors close with a soft expensive little kllooosh

and Cass turns with the smile of a very tiny girl...

... her lips closing on Joe's as the poodle yaps shrilly at

their feet. Superimposed, almost subliminally, a golden

dollar sign appears, halating like a star, and the bell of a

pinball machine rings O.S.

INT. CASS'S APARTMENT - DAY

A princess telephone is ringing on a gold and white desk.

Cass runs to grab it...

... as Joe steps from the elevator, which opens directly onto

Cass's penthouse. Cass beckons him toward her, hooks a finger

into his neckerchief and pulls his mouth toward hers while

she talks on the phone.

Cass gurgles happily as her free hand unbuckles Joe's

garrison belt.

As her fingers reach for Joe's zipper, cut to...

... Joe's hand unzipping her dress.

The poodle tugs at Joe's slacks until they fall. Cass steers

her ear to Joe's mouth, shuddering deliciously.

Cass holds the phone toward the yapping poodle, twisting

herself against Joe as she wriggles out of her dress, passing

the phone from one hand to the other.

Cass hangs up. The poodle yaps hysterically, disentangling

himself from her tumbling dress -- hops onto the couch

glances off and flees again as an overturned lamp crashes

O.S.

INT. CASS'S BEDROOM - DAY

The poodle bounces onto the bed -- remaining long enough to

establish a TV REMOTE CONTROL TUNER lying on the satin

coverlet -- then leaps down in panic as he hears Joe and Cass

explode into the bedroom, laughing lustily...

... the remote control tuner buried suddenly under the full

flesh of Cass's hip, activating...

... a twenty-five-inch television screen, blasting at full

volume...

... Cass's eyes widening, profoundly impressed...

... the images and sound of the television set flicking

joyfully from channel to channel...

... Joe laughing, engulfed by Cass's abundance...

... Cass wild-eyed, overflowing the frame...

... a gleaming slot machine -- three Sahara cowgirls clicking

into line for jackpot -- silver dollars overflowing the

frame...

EXT. MANHATTAN SKYLINE - DAY

... the Mutual of New York tower flashes MONY!

INT. CASS'S BEDROOM - DAY

Joe turns away from a small terrace, buckling his belt,

glancing off toward the sound of Cass in the shower. He

flicks the TV remote control, enjoying his power, ignoring

the silent images on the screen -- battle casualties, a

pretty girl recommending aspirin, a man's stomach flashing

animated pain, starving war refugees, a dog eating pzazz --

flicking it off to concentrate on the costume jewelry and

perfume bottles on Cass's dressing table.

Joe turns to look as Cass comes from the bathroom, holding a

towel around her as she runs behind the closet door.

A tower of black bugle beads emerges from the closet door.

Joe zips her dress, follows her to the dressing table, where

she sprays her hair with lacquer.

Cass stretches her upper lip across her teeth and she smears

it with, orange lipstick.

Joe grins, relieved as she takes out a gold lame purse and

opens it. He frowns as she folds; it upside down, empty.

Joe stands mute as she cups his chin in her hand,

seductively.

Joe tries to laugh but it sticks in his throat as Cass speaks

-- an impassioned whisper -- still holding Joe's chin.

Sobbing suddenly, she throws herself on the bed. Joe stands

bewildered by the vastness of her grief.

Joe waves his wallet at her, but she only cries louder. He

hands her a kleenex. She clutches it to her face, wailing.

Joe leans over the bed, whispering in her ear:

Joe tucks a twenty-dollar bill into her bosom, tilts his

Stetson and starts out. Cass blows her nose, looking after

him. O.S. chorus sings, "From this valley they say you are

going -- we will miss your bright eyes and sweet smile..."

EXT. LEXINGTON AVENUE - DAY

From a high angle, Joe walks away from the apartment house,

chorus continuing O.S. "... they say you are taking the

sunshine that brightened our pathway a while."

INT. EVERETT'S BAR - DAY

Joe sits at the bar, staring morosely at his image in the

mirror, already quite drunk, oblivious to the assorted types

hiding from daylight in the barn-like saloon, waiting for

night to fall.

RATSO studies Joe across the corner of the bar -- a sickly,

child-size old man of twenty-one -- hopefully nursing an

empty beer glass, contemplating the money on the bar in front

of Joe.

Ratso spits as JACKIE leans on the bar next to Joe -- a

feminine young person, heavily made-up, hair teased, wearing

earrings and a lace-trimmed blouse over shocking pink  levis.

Reaching for a cigarette, Joe glances at Jackie, startled as

Jackie twitches his pink levis angrily and turns away.

The TV screen over the bar features a mating game program as

Jackie cruises down to join a tall farm boy with plucked

eyebrows. The TV HOST points to three young men, visible only

from the shoulders up, from whom a pretty DATE GIRL in

blindfold must choose an escort.

In a booth now -- the TV screen in the background, continuing

the game -- Joe is refilling Ratso's beer glass as he speaks,

loud over the laughter of the TV audience.

Ratso grabs the neck of a bottle, sliding back in the booth.

Joe scowls as Jackie appears with the tall farm boy.

On the TV screen -- the Date Girl announces:

The TV host pulls aside the screen which has concealed the

lower half of the three young men. Number Two, her chosen

mate, is a dwarf sitting on a high stool. The girl's

spontaneous dismay starts everyone laughing hysterically,

including the dwarf.

EXT. SIXTH AVENUE - DAY

Joe has difficulty keening up with Ratso, who swings himself

along with surprising agility, his half skipping little gate

favoring one game leg.

Joe hesitates as Ratso darts into traffic against a red

light, yelling unheard obscenities at a cab driver who blasts

his horn. Joe runs recklessly forward as Ratso slams the taxi

fender with his fist, pretending to be hit, falling into

Joe's arms. The taxi stops, halting traffic. Ratso, recovers,

strolls casually in front of the cab, biting his thumb at the

driver.

EXT. SIDEWALK CAFE - COCKTAIL HOUR

At,the corner of Central Park South, Ratso points toward a

young man with diamond cuff-links, sitting with a blue-haired

matron who puffs on a small cigar. Ratso waves jauntily at

the young man, raising his thumb and forefinger in a circle,

leaving the young man baffled as Ratso hurries Joe on.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK SOUTH - COCKTAIL HOUR

Ratso automatically checks the coin return boxes of the phone

booths they pass. Walking the park side of the street,

looking across at the limousines and taxis waiting outside

luxury hotels and apartment buildings.

Ratso stops opposite the Plaza hotel, pointing across at an

aristocratic blonde stepping out of a Rolls Royce.

Joe peels a ten from his wallet and offers it to Ratso.

INT. PUBLIC PHONE BOOTH - DUSK

Ratso is on the phone. Joe holds the door open, listening.

EXT. WEST SIDE HOTEL - DUSK

Camera moves slowly up the anonymous wall of a drab hotel,

following the line of dim red lights marking the fire exits.

INT. WEST SIDE HOTEL ELEVATOR - DUSK

As ancient open cage lift rises at the same pace as camera in

preceding shot. Joe grins excitedly at Ratso, who nods but

glances significantly at the elevator operator. Ratso follows

Joe to door as the operator grinds to a stop.

INT. WEST SIDE HOTEL CORRIDOR - DUSK

Ratso steps out with Joe, gesturing to the corridor...

... but the operator slams the door and starts on up. Ratso

leans heavily on the down button, glancing at Joe.

Ratso glances up the elevator shaft nervously, rings again

and turns back to Joe.

Ratso leans on the DOWN as the cage grinds slowly down into

view and stops.

Ratso steps into the elevator as the door opens then closes,

leaving Joe alone, repeating "Cherry Neverlin" as he starts

along the corridor looking for 901.

EXT. WEST SIDE HOTEL - DUSK

Ratso bursts from the hotel, almost running as he disappears.

INT. WEST SIDE HOTEL CORRIDOR - DUSK

Joe finds 901 at a dark end of the corridor, knocks

confidently, hearing a few bars of his love theme as he

stuffs a fresh stick of gum in his mouth. Then the door is

thrown open by O'DANIEL -- for an instant appearing to wear a

diamond-studded skull-cap, the naked overhead light bulb

bright after the dark corridor, halating in Joe's eyes like

the earlier dollar sign.

O'Daniel, fat in a worn-out bathrobe, examines Joe like a

prodigal son as he leads him into the room -- as anonymous as

Joe's own room.

O'Daniel rises suddenly in a fury of self-righteousness,

pacing, his voice simpering, whining sarcastically.

Joe laughs, driving an obscene uppercut into the air.

O'Daniel laughs with him.

O'Daniel drops on all fours, crawling to find the plug of an

electric cord. He shoves it into a wall socket, switches off

the overhead light and suddenly a hollow, tinted plastic

Jesus glows on the dresser. O.S. a revivalist congregation

sings. And now we notice, with Joe, placards and flags, horns

and tracts, all the paraphernalia of a street corner

evangelist.

EXT. REMEMBERED BAPTISM - ANOTHER TIME

Sally Buck sings with the congregation while a rawboned

preacher stands in the river, preparing to immerse little

Joe.

INT. WEST SIDE HOTEL ROOM - DUSK

O'Daniel tries to pull Joe down beside him.

EXT. REMEMBERED BAPTISM - ANOTHER TIME

Camera becomes little Joe, glimpsing the fevered faces of

Sally Buck and the congregation singing on the riverbank,

just before being plunged under the river. O'Daniel's voice

reechoes, filtered through water.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT

Joe runs in aimless panic, pushing through the crowd, pursued

by O'Daniel's voice and the singing congregation.

Joe stops short as he sees the front page of a tabloid on a

newsstand. There is a picture of Joe being led away by two

deputies, under a headline ALABAMA MURDERER SHOTGUNS ELEVEN.

EXT. FORTY-SECOND STREET - NIGHT

Joe searches the faces of the crowd, running forward suddenly

as he sees Jackie and the farmboy picked up by two men in a

large convertible. Joe chases the car to Eighth Avenue but

stops, frightened as he sees himself in multiple image on the

front of every newspaper displayed on a newsstand.

INT. EVERETT'S BAR - NIGHT

The saloon is almost empty during the after dinner lull. The

BARTENDER doesn't look up from his newspaper as Joe

approaches.

Joe tenses as he sees the . tabloid picture of himself on the

back of the bartender's paper. Joe's hand closes around an

empty beer bottle, a terrible violence surging very near the

surface. O.S. women scream.

INT. REMEMBERED BEAUTY SALON - ANOTHER TIME

Reflected in the mirror, we see little Joe wildly smashing

bottles and glass display cabinets -- the voices of women

screaming O.S. -- little Joe hurling a perfume bottle which

shatters the mirror and his own image.

INT. EVERETT'S BAR - NIGHT

The empty beer bottle stands where it was. Joe has

disappeared. On the TV screen over the bar, sound drowned out

by the jukebox, we see a blowup of the tabloid photograph,

revealing a young man very similar to, but clearly not Joe.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT

Colorful lights still flash seductive promise. The vertical,

lights on the MONY tower reach bottom and freeze momentarily.

STILL PHOTOGRAPH

Joe at his hotel window staring out blankly. Gun fire O.S....

INT. SHOOTING GALLERY - DAY

The radio at Joe's ear is drowned out by a kid in cowboy hat,

shooting alone in the gallery.

Two policemen idly slap their thighs with night sticks. Joe

moves on, unconsciously checking the coin return box of a pay

phone.

STILL PHOTOGRAPH

Joe curled up on his bed like a baby, fully dressed, his

radio on the night stand. O.S. his love theme, remote,

hollow...

EXT. FORTY-SECOND STREET - NIGHT

Joe's radio is at his ear "... never too late to look great,

Ben's Bargain Basement's open 'till five a.m., miles and

miles of Western styles, worth more at any store, money talks

and nobody walks." For the first time, Joe is aware of the

other midnight cowboys lurking in doorways, the cruising

queens, the middle-age men in sport shirts. Joe moves on self

consciously as he sees a scar-faced policeman, unconsciously

massaging his night stick. Camera holds on a window display

of gag buttons, featuring NEW YORK WILL BREAK YOUR HEART,

BABY.

STILL PHOTOGRAPH

Joe soaking in the tub, eyes closed.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE DANCE HALL - DAY

Joe's radio promises job opportunities for young men eighteen

to twenty-five in the U.S. Air Force. He stands with a crowd

staring up at a girl go-go dancing in the window of SERGEANT

PEPPER'S LONELY HEART CLUB.

STILL PHOTOGRAPH

Joe staring in the mirror. O.S. static over his love theme.

EXT. SIXTH AVENUE - NIGHT

By work-light, the tarrier in metal helmet leans on a jack

hammer, beyond the sign DIG WE MUST, drowning out Joe's

radio.

STILL PHOTOGRAPH

Joe flexing his muscles in his jockey shorts while -- LIVE ON

TV SCREEN -- a physical culture personality finishes push-ups

and starts pitching his own extra protein bread.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE PANCAKE HOUSE - DAY

Joe's radio continues the super-break commercial while a fry

cook flips flapjacks in the window.

But Joe's eyes are on a sign DISHWASHER WANTED. Joe looks up

and his eyes meet those of the young man scraping garbage

behind the counter. It's Joe.

STILL PHOTOGRAPH

Joe sits in the hotel lobby, staring out at the street,

unable to concentrate on his comic book. On two-way radio, a

woman's voice giggles as she speaks, "When I can't sleep,

well, I just dial the time and listen to those old seconds

clicking by like, you know, counting sheep?"

EXT. SIDEWALK CAFE - COCKTAIL HOUR

Joe watches a young man hold a taxi door for an older lady,

at the same corner where Ratso waved to another young man.

The woman's predatory eyes linger momentarily on Joe before

she leads the young man into the Cafe. The two-way radio

continues over, "... that's what I do about insomnia."

STILL PHOTOGRAPH

Joe straddles a chair, staring at a blank TV screen.

E-Z LOAN COMMERCIAL

As the jingle continues, we follow Joe and his radio into the

loan office, the depressing reality photographed and edited

in the style of a TV commercial:

INT. TIMES SQUARE PALACE LOBBY - NIGHT

Joe's image frozen -- as if another still photograph -

standing at the desk, waiting for his key.

Action continues as the DESK CLERK hands Joe a folded paper

instead of a key. Joe opens it, deeply perplexed.

INTERCUT

Room 1014 warm and inviting, Joe's suitcase on the bed.

INTERCUT

The postcard photograph marked X -- THIS IS ME.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT

Joe stands outside the hotel, stunned, seeing the bright

colored lights turn suddenly grey. The film continues in

black and white as Joe walks into the crowd.

EXT. SALLY BUCK'S BEAUTY SALON - DAY

The FOR RENT sign flapping in the wind.

INT. BAR - DAY

Joe nurses a short beer, like the regulars. He looks up as a

crippled panhandler approaches, vaguely reminiscent of Ratso.

INT. ROOM 1014 - NIGHT

The bed turned back, clean sheets, a soft night light.

INT. BUS DEPOT - NIGHT

Joe is stretched on a bench, his Stetson over his eyes. A

loud speaker announces a bus "departing for Texas" but Joe

does not move. A policeman taps Joe's boots with his night

stick. Joe rises and starts away with mixed anger and

apprehension.

INT. PUBLIC MEN'S ROOM - DAY

Two matching Ivy Leaguers exchange a glance as they see Joe

washing his feet in the basin. Joe stares back with a

belligerent grin.

INT. ALL NIGHT CAFETERIA - NIGHT

Joe balances a cup of coffee, walking past the other solitary

night people, avoiding each other's eyes. Joe spots what he's

looking for and seats himself next to a gaunt woman and her

ten year old son, both freaked out, erratically touching

things, themselves, each other in a futile effort to make

contact with reality. But Joe is only concerned with the

plastic-wrapped crackers left by their empty soup bowls.

The woman stares at Joe blankly. The boy runs a toy mouse

across the table, up his mother's arm and around her face.

With a polite nod, Joe opens the crackers and squirts one

with ketchup. Joe upsets his chair as a great gob of ketchup

spills onto his pants...

... glancing around with an embarrassed laugh, but the only

one looking is a cop, scratching his calf with a night stick.

Joe keeps his back to the customers as he moves to the water

dispenser, wets a paper napkin and tries to wipe away the

stain. But the water has only spread the stain across his

pants and down his leg. He blushes as a blonde young

streetwalker giggles.

INT. SUBWAY ARCADE - NIGHT

Joe tries to hide the stain with his jacket as he checks the

coin boxes of vending machines, wary as he passes a burly

policeman, abstractedly snapping his handcuffs in front of a

bakery window display of bride-and-groom wedding cakes. Joe

barely glances at a confused MIDDLE-AGE LADY.

Automatically,checking the trough of a gum vending machine,

Joe unexpectedly faces himself in the mirror, the eyes

staring at him tired and hopeless. His hand reaches

unconsciously for a cigarette, The package is empty. He

crumples it in his fist but holds it.

EXT. FORTY-SECOND STREET - NIGHT

Joe hurls the crumpled package into a DON'T BE A LITTERBUG

basket as he emerges from the subway, his radio at his ear.

The torchy voice belts his love song, merging with street

noises crying danger -- an ambulance, a burglar alarm, a

policeman's whistle -- the lights flashing lurid color for

the first time since Joe was locked out, no longer promising

but threatening, clashing, warning as...

... from a high angle, across the street, Joe joins the other

midnight cowboys, offering himself to all comers. His figure

is momentarily obliterated by traffic then...

... zooming in, we see Joe self-consciously trying to hide

the stain on his pants, embarrassed as a large sedan slows

then moves on to stop in front of a motorcycle freak. Joe is

briefly obliterated again by a passing police car...

... the receding flash of its turret light revealing Joe in

close conversation with a frightened young FAT BOY, whose

eyes plead for reassurance as Joe scowls.

INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY

Joe's black and white suitcase gleams on the bed.

INT. ALL NIGHT MOVIE - NIGHT

From an apparently empty balcony -- an old science fiction

film grinds endlessly through the night -- a lost spaceman

trying to make contact with a tantalizing Martian maiden

across an invisible time barrier, theremin voices calling,

"Earthling, where are you?"

At the top of the balcony, Joe leans back, turning his face

away as the Fat Boy embraces him, kissing Joe's cheek and

neck, his head moving down out of frame to show -- on the

screen -- the spaceman and Martian maiden meeting, arms

outstretched. But the Martian maiden moves right on through

the spaceman, crying, "Earthling come back, however many

centuries it is, I'll wait!" Joe closes his eyes, forcing his

memory back...

INT. REMEMBERED MOVIE HOUSE - ANOTHER TIME

... repeating the remembered image of Anastasia and a younger

Joe, behind the movie screen...

... the remembered passion continuing, mounting -- intercut

with flash impressions, like flipping pages of a nudie

magazine -- naked, half-draped blondes gazing into camera

with sultry eyes, including one comic strip sexpot and the

calendar girl in Joe's Texas hotel room...

... Joe's face in extreme close-up, sounds of both movie

houses merging, confused, dominated by the voices of

adolescent boys...

... an adolescent ratpack waiting in line behind the screen,

laughing in coarse whispers, watching Joe and Anastasia. O.S.

theremin voices call "Earthling, where are you?"

INT. ALL NIGHT MOVIE - NIGHT

On screen, the Martian maiden moves through the spaceman,

crying, "Earthling, come back, however many centuries it is,

I'll wait!"

INT. ALL NIGHT MOVIE RESTROOM - NIGHT

Joe watches the Fat Boy doubled over, retching.

Eagerly, the boy produces a family photograph, a subway

token, a dirty handkerchief. Joe grabs his wrist, revealing a

watch.

But Joe has already kicked open the door. Theremin voices

drown out the Fat Boy, calling "Earthling, where are you?"

INT. ALL NIGHT MOVIE - NIGHT

Joe sprawls, trying to sleep, his feet on the balcony rail,

the radio at his ear. On screen, once again, the Martian

maiden moves through the spaceman, crying, but we hear the

voice of a desperate woman on two-way radio. As she speaks, a

policeman moves along the aisle, slapping his palm with his

night stick.

EXT. SIXTH AVENUE - DAY

From a high angle, only Joe's Stetson and radio can be seen

above a passing bus, its side panel advertising BILL BONNER'S

STRAIGHT LINE, A STRAIGHT TALK SHOW.

Joe appears in full figure as the bus passes. He stands

looking at the suitcases in a luggage shop window.

INT. RADIO STATION - DAY

BONNER, tough in a grey crew-cut, talks on the phone.

A taxi born blasts, interrupting the sponsor's message.

EXT. SIXTH AVENUE - DAY

Joe's fist slams a fender violently, using Ratso's fake

injury trick to stop traffic, running across the street

toward...

EXT. NEDICK'S - DAY

... Ratso staring out at Joe, paralyzed in the act of

lighting a cigarette -- intercut in flashing close-ups -- Joe

outside the window, Ratso inside -- reflecting their

conflicting emotions -- Joe's murderous rage -- Ratso's panic

-- one almost subliminal flash of each revealing something

like pleasure at finding a long-lost friend...

INT. NEDICK'S - DAY

... Ratso staring up into camera, holding his breath.

Joe's hand falls on Ratso's shoulder.

The cigarette in Ratso's mouth burns into his lip. He jerks

spasmodically, choking on smoke as he rips skin away with the

butt and drops it in his coffee cup.

Coughing, eyes tearing, Ratso empties his pockets on the

counter, finally producing: sixty-four cents, a few sticks of

gum, an almost empty cigarette package, a book of matches and

two pawn tickets. He raises his eyes, somehow ashamed. Joe

kicks the toe of Ratso's loafer.

Ratso removes his loafers and shakes them, glancing at the

counter man. His socks don't even conceal his toes.

Disgusted, Joe shoves Ratso's small pile back at him.

Joe should leave -- Ratso obviously has nothing tangible to

offer -- but Joe hesitates, lighting a cigarette as Ratso

pulls on his loafers.

Ratso touches his chest, forcing a cough which continues

itself beyond his intention.

INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY

The black and white suitcase lies open on the bed.

INT. NEDICK'S - DAY

Joe turns abruptly and walks away.

EXT. SIXTH AVENUE - DAY

Joe strides north, pretending he doesn't hear...

... Ratso hop-skipping to overtake Joe at the traffic light.

EXT. TENEMENT STREET - DAY

A contractor's sign announces LUXURY APARTMENTS AVAILABLE in

high-rise co-op, under construction beyond a raw of tenements

with X's taped on the windows. Ratso's voice continues over

the click-clack-click of Joe's boots and the flip-flap-squeak

of Ratso's loafers as camera moves toward a condemned

building.

INT. TENEMENT STAIRS - DAY

Footsteps climb past rubbish piled outside empty flats.

INT. X FLAT - DAY

Light from the X window shines on a Florida tourist poster as

Ratso leads Joe into an abandoned tub-in-kitchen flat, barely

furnished with a table and chair, a rumple of blankets on a

burnt-out mattress.

Ratso fills a saucepan from the tub-sink, sets it on a Sterno

stove. Joe sits himself on the mattress-bed, pretending to

test it, weeks of exhaustion and tension overwhelming him

suddenly, his only immediate problem being the effort to

restrain a large, comfortable yawn.

Joe stretches himself, yawning, his eyelids drooping heavily.

The sounds of the city recede. Joe's love theme plays softly

on a distant radio. Joe's eyes close momentarily in spite of

him elf.

INT. REMEMBERED CAR - ANOTHER TIME

A vintage dashboard, radio dial glowing, Anastasia's face.

EXT. DEMOLITION SITE - DAY

A huge metal ball arcs on chain, demolishing a brick facade.

INT. X FLAT - DAY

Ratso's face seems to radiate evil as he lights a Sterno can.

Joe forces his eyes half-open.

Joe shivers, pulls a blanket around him, resisting sleep, but

the noises of demolition fade, the love theme lures Joe back.

Joe's eyes close, his voice continuing out of half-sleep.

JOE

Want me to stay here, y'after something. What y'after?

INT. REMEMBERED CAR - NIGHT

Joe's thumbnail flares a match, exposing Anastasia on the car

seat with Joe, both nearly naked. Anastasia butterfly-kisses

Joe's chest as he lights a cigarette.

ANASTASIA

Say you love me. Just say it.

JOE

Okay. I love you.

Anastasia purrs as her lips find Joe's breast, trying to

nurse. A flashlight flares suddenly through the car window.

NIGHTMARE - MULTIPLE SPLIT SCREEN

Low angle Ratso bending over Joe, into camera...

... Sally Buck shocked, hand still on switch...

... Joe blinded by halation...

... Anastasia's mouth screaming soundlessly...

... flashlights multiplying on car window...

Full frame -- Anastasia catatonic in hospital gown -- a

woman's voice "What'd he do to you, Annie?"...

... gang-bang ratpack surrounding car with flashlights...

... Jackie shrieking "He loves her he loves her"...

... hands closing on Joe's buttocks...

... hand closing on Joe's naked left foot...

... hand on naked right foot...

... dentist leaning over Joe's mouth...

... hands pulling Joe's legs apart...

Zoom close-up -- Anastasia screaming soundlessly...

... thermometer under Little Joe's tongue...

... Sally Buck shoves chocolate in her mouth...

... bewigged poodle licks her fingers...

... Sally Buck hangs enema can on bedpost...

... Ratso leads ratpack chasing naked Anastasia...

... corona of flashlights...

Anastasia screaming soundlessly -- flashlight shoved into her

mouth -- electronic rock blasting...

... blank-eyed go-go girl in dance hall window...

... Joe held naked by ratpack...

... Ratso breaking beer bottle on Everett's bar...

... dwarf laughing on television...

... Ratso aims broken bottle at Joe's crotch...

... shooting gallery cowboys riddle Joe's pelvis...

Anastasia catatonic in courtroom -- between gaunt parents -

whining singsong "Raped her raped her Joe Buck raped her"...

... Fat Boy's mouth finds Joe's breast, tries to nurse...

... Sally Buck kisses him open-mouthed...

... slug crawls up Joe's stomach, trailing mucus...

... Cass's poodle laps at his toes...

... butterflies settle on his eyes...

Anastasia catatonic in courtroom between parents -- who are

now O'Daniel and Sally Buck...

... drawling voice "evidence of repeated violations"...

... Bill Bonner in flag-cloth judge's robe...

... police advancing, swinging night sticks...

... Joe running into Times Square, suddenly naked...

... Anastasia sitting in all-night cafeteria...

... freaky child running toy mouse over her naked body...

Siren screaming -- Anastasia staring catatonic from rear

window of ambulance...

... ambulance racing away...

... Joe chasing naked after ambulance...

... running into the arms of the police...

... Ratso laughing as police beat Joe...

INT. X FLAT - NIGHT

Joe awakens in a cold sweat, fighting the blankets, wild-eyed

as he sees Ratso at the table, examining Joe's radio by

candle-light. Joe lunges across the room to snatch the radio

from Ratso's hands.

Still wild-eyed, Joe suddenly points at his stocking feet.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - DAY

Joe facing the crowd, naked except for his boots.

INT. X FLAT - NIGHT

Ratso points to the boots on the floor by the mattress.

Joe inspects the boots, seats himself on a battered Army cot

- which has been added while he slept -- swinging a boot by

its strap, considering whether to stay or go.

Ratso offers a cigarette from his crushed package, Joe

strikes a match on his thumbnail and lights up, staring at

Ratso.

Joe makes a slow move to pull on one boot.

Joe yawns, picks up a few blankets and spreads them on the

cot. He puzzles out the faded printing on one blanket.

Ratso blows out the candle and wraps himself in blankets.

EXT. VEGETABLE MARKET - DAY

Ratso wears a threadbare raincoat of faded black, several

sizes too large, as he shops with housewives at a sidewalk

vegetable stand -- elbowing his way through the ladies,

testing fruit, picking up vegetables and putting them back --

till the GREENGROCER spots him.

The other shoppers deliberately turn their backs, avoiding

involvement. As the Greengrocer grabs Ratso, Joe ambles into

the scene, wearing his dangerous little smile.

Joe intervenes just long enough for Ratso to escape, then

ambles on, leaving the Greengrocer in frustrated fury. Camera

holds on a tray of coconuts.

INT. X FLAT - DAY

Joe lies on his cot, watching Ratso struggle to penetrate the

fibrous husk of a coconut, experimenting with a variety of

rusty tools in an old cigar box.

Joe takes his time rising to hold the coconut while Ratso

tries to poke a hole with a bent ice-pick.

Joe jerks his hand away just in time to avoid the ice-pick.

The coconut bounces on the floor. Ratso picks it up, holds

it, while Joe tries to crack it, swinging his boot like a

hammer.

Joe swings violently. Ratso yelps, hopping on his one good

leg, sucking his thumb.

Ratso holds his thumb under the tub-sink faucet.

Joe holds the coconut like Yorick's skull, thinking hard.*

Joe sets the coconut on the floor, holding it with both hands

while he tries to smash it with the heel of his boot.

INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY

The suitcase lies open, displaying Joe's wardrobe.

INT. X FLAT - DAY

Joe slams his heel down. The coconut shoots out from under

him and he lands on his ass.

Ratso sets the coconut on the window sill, balancing it as he

raises the X window.

Joe slams, the window down. The coconut flies down to crash

O.S. on the sidewalk below.

EXT. SIDEWALK - DAY

An alley cat laps up the milk of the broken coconut.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - FANTASY

Joe stands naked in the middle of traffic. A siren shrills.

Anastasia, catatonic in a hospital smock, moves toward Joe

like a sleepwalker, passing through him.

INT. LAUNDROMAT - DAY

Wearing only his boots, Joe sits like an Indian chief,

wrapped in a blanket -- angle widening to show Ratso,

spotting Joe's jacket, slacks and shirt with cleaning fluid --

his eyes on a very pregnant Italian lady. As she starts to

load a coin cleaning machine, Ratso intervenes solicitously,

speaking in Italian...

... adroitly slipping Joe's cleaning in with her load as she

turns to seat herself beside Joe.

INT. HAT CLEANERS - DAY

Joe and Ratso stand waiting at the counter.

The owner brings Joe's clean and blocked Stetson from the

rear of the shop. Joe sets it on his head and examines

himself in a mirror as the owner hands Ratso, the bill.

The owner glances at the slip, puzzled, returns to the rear

of the shop to search for the nonexistent homburg. Ratso

quickly drags Joe away from the mirror and out of the shop.

INT. SUBWAY ARCADE - NIGHT

The rhythmic duet of boots and loafers follows Joe and Ratso

- checking coin boxes and telephone booths -- till they reach

a shoeshine stand, locked for the night. They loiter till a

young couple has disappeared, then Joe kicks loose 'the

padlock on the equipment drawer, mounts one of the chairs and

Ratso goes to work on his boots with furious expertise,

flourishing double brushes, snapping the rag like a jazz

drummer.

Ratso demonstrates a chimpanzee walk. Joe laughs. Ratso turns

back in panic as another man takes a chair next to Joe. Ratso

is about to retuse when a cop takes the third chair, swinging

his handcuffs around to the front, tapping his shoe with his

night stick. Ratso quickly drops a rag over the broken

padlock, cursing under his breath as he starts working on all

three customers at the same time.

INT. X FLAT - DAY

Joe is seated in a straight-back chair near the X window, a

towel tucked around his neck as Ratso trims his hair, almost

as expert a barber as shoeshine boy.

As if by conditioned reflex, Ratso chokes on the cigarette in

his mouth, coughing painfully. He crushes it out, opens the

window to spit, shivering, then slam it and turns back to

remove the towel from Joe's neck.

Joe performs his ritual as he speaks, but more relaxed,

faintly laughing at himself with Ratso. The wall mirror has

been added since we last saw the flat, along with a legless

overstuffed chair with burnt-out cushions, a tasselled table

cover, pinups, calendar girls and several new Florida tourist

posters, Ratso moves to Joe's side, arranging the

neckerchief, nodding.

Joe slaps his hat on Ratso's head, tilts it, hooks Ratso's

thumbs in his jeans and shoves a cigarette into the corner of

Ratso's mouth. Ratso laughs till he chokes -- for one

instant, self-consciously, mimicking Joe -- then removes the

hat and reaches for his threadbare black raincoat.

EXT. CONVERTED TOWN HOUSE - DAY

Joe and Ratso peer down through a basement bay window, into

the office of THE PERFECT GENTLEMAN ESCORT SERVICE --

endorsed by leading travel agencies and credit clubs offering

discreet companionship and personal guided tours in any

language. A large-busted matron, on a French phone, fills out

a memo and hands it to an immaculate young ESCORT, who slips

the memo into his topcoat pocket as he comes from the office

and hails a cab. Ratso darts forward, limping exaggeratedly,

holding the door, lifting the memo as he brushes off the

Escort's topcoat. The young man waves him away with out a

tip. Ratso slams the door and bites his thumb after the cab,

unfolding the memo as he joins Joe on the sidewalk.

EXT. MANHATTAN SKYLINE - DUSK

The Mutual of New York tower flashes MONY.

INT. CORNER PHONE BOOTH - DUSK

Ratso consults the memo as he speaks into the phone.

EXT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT

A doorman helps a young lady into a limousine.

Joe and Ratso watch from across the street.

Joe cracks his gum, tilts his hat, starts across the street.

In Ratso's eyes -- as Joe enters the hotel -- its facade

suddenly wipes away to reveal rich ladies in negligee waiting

in every room.

INT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT

Joe starts up the stairs, two at a time. A BELLHOP grabs him.

EXT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT

Ratso warms his hands at a chestnut vendor's cart, seeing...

... zoom close-up, a lady in a window grabbing Joe.

INT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT

Joe picks up a house phone, watched by the Bellhop.

EXT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT

Ratso sees Joe zip from room to room in wild animation.

INT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT

The lobby watches Joe blow a gum bubble at the elevator.

EXT. EXCLUSIVE DRESS SHOP - NIGHT

Staring at a window display of Florida sportswear, Ratso's

imagination soars, seeing...

EXT. FLORIDA BEACH FRONT - FANTASY

... Ratso, like a model in a travel poster, in gaudy sport

shirt, talking on the phone against a background of hotels...

... Ratso like James Bond, surrounded by bikinis, dictating

while girls serve coconut milk and massage his game leg...

... Ratso like George Raft, in evening clothes, running a

posh casino, flicking a coin...

... Ratso simply himself, dressed as he is, sitting on the

beach, at peace in the sun...

... the same identical picture with Joe sitting beside Ratso.

INT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT

Joe faces MISS BEECHAM, a reserved and rather plain young

lady in evening dress, She tries to speak softly.

EXT. EXCLUSIVE DRESS SHOP - NIGHT

Ratso leans against the window, flipping a coin.

EXT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT

Miss Beecham is flushed with humiliation, the entire lobby

watching Joe in the hands of two bellboys.

EXT. EXCLUSIVE DRESS SHOP - NIGHT

The lights in the window suddenly switch off, blacking out

Florida. Ratso glances toward the growl of a siren O.S.

EXT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT

A police prowl car slows in front of the hotel. Ratso swings

across the street with incredible speed to meet Joe as he's

tossed onto the sidewalk. Ratso picks up the Stetson and

brushes it off, then helps Joe to his feet.

EXT. SIXTH AVENUE - NIGHT

From a high angle -- the two figures move slowly along the

deserted avenue, their rhythmic musical duet growing more and

more faint in the distance, a broken grasshopper and a six

foot tarnished cowboy -- passing a tuxedo rental store, next

to a lighted sign -- TEMPERATURE IN MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA 89

DEGREES -- their pace slowing to a dead stop...

INT. X FLAT - NIGHT

... Joe and Ratso frozen -- rain on the X windowpane freezing

into sheet ice. O.S.

a radio commercial plays warm, sentimental music while a cozy

voice explains how easy it is to heat with Humble oil.

EXT. CONDEMNED TENEMENTS - DAY

Joe and Ratso frozen in a narrow shaft of sunlight, watching

the huge metal ball demolish the building next door. O.S. a

radio announcer sells FROZEN SUNSHINE ORANGE JUICE.

INT. X FLAT - NIGHT

Joe and Ratso frozen, staring significantly at Joe's radio.

O.S. a singing commercial, "Don't wheeze and sneeze the

winter away! Drink Frozen sunshine every day!"

EXT. PAWN SHOP - DAY

Through the window -- Joe and Ratso watch the pawnbroker

examine Joe's radio, "Be healthier, wealthier, life can be

fine, when you drink Frozen" -- Sunshine is clicked off by

the pawnbroker.

INT. X FLAT - NIGHT

Joe and Ratso frozen, wrapped in blankets as...

... the canned heat dies with a faint puff...

... water dripping in the tub-sink freezes into an icicle...

... the candle burns down and out, leaving the screen dark.

EXT. CONDEMNED TENEMENTS - DAY

Joe and Ratso warm themselves on the smoke and steam rising

from a subway grating -- watching two officials in fur

collared coats inspect the front of their X flat building.

Reading their doom, Joe and Ratso, continue on, disappearing

into the subway.

EXT. FORTY-SECOND STREET - NIGHT

Joe stands alone, watching the midnight cowboys ply their

trade. Camera pulls back as Joe turns away and enters a store

front blood bank, offering ten dollars to blood donors.

INSERT

A huge hypodermic fills the frame, sucking Joe's blood. O.S.

Ratso coughs uncontrollably.

INT. X FLAT - NIGHT

Ratso leans over the tub-sink, dry-heaving while he coughs,

wearing a sheepskin coat much too large for him. He controls

the cough with effort -- hearing the door open and close O.S.

-- wipes his mouth and turns to grin at...

... Joe, trying to light the empty Sterno can, deliberately

ignoring Ratso. Ratso shrugs, washes his mouth at the faucet,

finds a cigarette butt and lights it, careful to avoid

inhaling the first puff.

Joe slams ten dollars on the table. Ratso glances at Joe with

curious concern.

Ratso pulls off the coat and throws it at Joe.

Joe throws it back at Ratso.

Ratso hurls it in a corner. Joe shoves the ten at Ratso.

EXT. EAST RIVER BRIDGE - DAY

High angle -- Joe and Ratso cross an foot, chilled by wind,

neither wearing the sheepskin coat. The Queens riverfront and

factories appear cold and bleak, deserted on Sunday.

EXT. LONG ISLAND CEMETERIES - DAY

Camera moves into acres of tombstones, piled like low-rent

housing projects for the dead, the various faiths segregated

by crumbling boundaries.

EXT. PROTESTANT CEMETERY - DAY

Ratso leads Joe past a Negro family at a grave -- glances

around -- snatches an elaborate floral piece from a headstone

and hides it under his black raincoat as he darts toward a

low dividing wail and swings himself over into...

EXT. CATHOLIC CEMETERY - DAY

... an endless section of plain stone markers. Joe touches

his hat to two nuns, guiltily hurrying to overtake Ratso at

ibis father's grave, indistinguishable from the other graves

except for the name on the headstone. Ratso places the floral

piece on the grave with almost absurd solemnity. Joe laughs.

Joe reads from the ribbon on the floral display.

Joe is frowning, standing at the,headstone, momentarily

depressed with an undefined sorrow.

EXT. SALLY BUCK'S BEAUTY SALON - DAY

Through the window, past the FOR RENT sign, the tarnishing

driers are lined up like tombstones.

EXT. JEWISH CEMETERY - DAY

Joe frowns, puzzled, as Ratso pulls out a black skullcap,

leading Joe toward a group of professional mourners,

whispering:

Joe and Ratso join the mourners as the funeral moves to the

grave, Ratso mouthing an authentic double-talk...

... Joe standing self-consciously, aware of the covert

glances of the other mourners, automatically reaching up to

remove his hat, remembering when Ratso elbows him in the

ribs...

... Joe scowling, tight-lipped, embarrassed by the tip that

is thrust in his hand.

INT. LUNCH COUNTER - EVENING

A weary Santa Claus, in a rented beard and over-large

costume, warms his hands over the steam of his coffee cup.

Joe and Ratso are arguing farther down the counter.

In the background, as Ratso speaks, HANSEL and GRETEL

MACALBERTSON enter the lunch counter, inspecting the

customers one by one. Both wear black turtlenecks and jeans,

dressed as twins, both blond and pretty.

Conditioned reflex, Ratso starts to cough. Joe sees the

MacAlbertsons in the mirror, standing behind him, studying

him. Gretel nods, Hansel hands Joe a large black card,

smiling vaguely, then moves on.

Joe studies the black card, frowning at first, suddenly

smiling, turning as if to call after the MacAlbertsons, but

they are disappearing around the corner. Joe hands the card

to Ratso.

Shocking pink letters on the black card read YOU ARE INVITED

TO HELP US BURY LOVE -- TONIGHT AT BROADWAY AND HARMONY LANE

- HANSEL AND GRETEL MACALBERTSON.

Joe sees a young man washing cups behind the counter. Joe

shakes his head, wonderingly, turning to study himself in the

mirror.

EXT. LOFT BUILDING - NIGHT

Snow swirls in the aureole of a street light as Joe and Ratso

run, heads lowered, turning into...

INT. LOFT BUILDING - NIGHT

... a drab entrance hall, dimly lit -- signs identifying

various commercial tenants -- a pink-on-black placard reading

MACALBERTSON, TWO FLIGHTS UP. Joe has started up before he

notices Ratso, leaning on the bannister at the foot of the

stairs, struggling to catch his breath. His face and hair are

wet with perspiration, his lips lavender-blue.

In swift flashes -- intercut -- Joe reads the panic in

Ratso's eyes, so intense that Joe shares it, unable to speak

or offer reassurance.

Joe pulls out his shirttail, grabs Ratso by the neck and rubs

his head dry.

Joe hands Ratso his own comb. Ratso swipes at his tangled

hair angrily until two teeth break in the comb. He hands the

comb back, tugs at his hair with his fingers, pats it in

place, then looks back into Joe's eyes.

In a moment of silence, distant sounds can be heard -- a

siren, the grinding teeth of a garbage truck, the twang of an

electric guitar upstairs at the party -- then Ratso makes a

quick gesture of impatience and starts up the stairs, pulling

himself on the bannister.

INT. MACALBERTSONS' LOFT - NIGHT

A bank of lights blinds Joe and Ratso as they enter --

electronic rock blasts their ears -- a bearded cameraman on a

step-ladder photographs them as they stand confused -- facing

a monstrous collage of tabloid photos blown up, showing the

murder of a hippie known as Groovy -- in-huge black letters,

LOVE WAS GROOVY -- GROOVY IS DEAD. Joe shouts over the

amplified music.

Ratso points to his ear -- he can't hear -- following Joe

across the room. The huge loft is crowded with a random

selection, gathered to serve as dress extras in an

underground film. The party is the scene. The MacAlbertsons

merely supply the ingredients and allow it to happen, with

cameras strategically placed to record the happening...

... Hansel with tape recorder, Gretel with hand-held camera

drifting through the crowd -- catching words and images in a

detached, whimsical fashion. Gretel turns her camera on Joe

and Ratso as they approach.

Gretel smiles without recognition. Hansel gestures vaguely.

The twins move away together, pausing to confer with the

operator of a tripod camera -- focused on an emaciated flower

girl with long hair and dirty feet, stretched in a

sarcophagus, clutching a dead daffodil, her eyes glazed.

Scrawled in huge letters on the wall over her head -- LOVE!

Ratso heads for the refreshment table. Joe starts after him

but pauses, intrigued by an alcove under the balcony where a

light show is in progress -- surreal images of naked bodies

projected against abstract currents of color and strobe

light...

... a bored fat lady in a muu-muu, squatted like a Buddha at

a low table, rolling joints for the guests.

She lights a joint and offers it to Joe as he wanders in to

watch the show. Joe laughs delightedly when he realizes what

it is...

... glancing around at the others, imitating their techniques

-- the quick inhaler, who follows with sharp gulps of air -

the deep inhalers who draw air as they inhale -- the stylist

who lets the smoke drift out and inhales through the nostrils

-- Joe puffing himself slightly dizzy, starting to laugh at

the silent flick effect of the strobe light -- the action

around him slowing almost imperceptibly, overcranked -- a

veil of smoke hanging over the fat woman's face, transforming

her into a laughing witch -- a similar veil around Joe's

head, relaxing the self-conscious tension of his face,

spontaneously curious about the play of light on his hand,

grinning at...

... a serious young technician handling the light show,

scattering psychedelic stars across a sky of magenta flesh...

... Joe reaching for the stars as he rises and wanders back

to the crowded loft, fascinated to see...

... a crew with cameras and lights, on the balcony at one end

of the loft, photographing the scene below...

... a dark-haired lady by the name of SHIRLEY -- chic in the

style of a gangster's moll -- drinking beer from the bottle,

predatory eyes searching the crowd...

... Ratso surreptitiously stuffing his pockets from the

buffet table, glancing nervously over his shoulder, unaware

of Gretel and her hand-held camera, photographing Ratso as he

steals, turning away casually, disinterested...

... Joe laughing as he dances for a moment with a tall black

girl -- the lights swinging around them -- faces swimming...

... Shirley in fleeting close-up, gone in an instant,

reappearing...

INT. MACALBERTSON BATHROOM - NIGHT

... her face in the mirror smiling in a dark, provocative way

-- Joe standing at the bathroom door, forgetting to be

embarrassed as Shirley turns away from the mirror,

unhurriedly, running her fingers through her hair, boldly

meeting Joe's eyes.

Joe grins, watching Shirley's lips move, unable to keep her

in sync, startled to hear Ratso's voice.

INT. MACALBERTSONS' LOFT - NIGHT

Joe realizes he is back at the party, Ratso whispering

hoarsely.

But Joe is watching with terrible fascination as Hansel and

Gretel lift the flower girl from her sarcophagus.

Joe glances down to see himself flanked by Ratso and Shirley.

The flower girl, hypnotically dazed, accepts a broom dipped

in black paint and smears a huge X across LOVE. Joe laughs.

Hansel holds a microphone toward Joe, who shrugs, grinning at

Ratso and Shirley. Gretel's camera moves down Joe's body.

Shirley glances at Ratso, who nods, whispering in her ear.

The scene -- from Joe's viewpoint -- becomes increasingly

confusing and fragmented, dialogue and image moving in and

out of focus, cameras and lights surrounding him, keeping the

center of attention in his own blown mind...

... Shirley's eyes unnaturally bright, inspecting his body,

lingering on his thighs, moistening her lips...

... the tall black girl dancing in stroble light, starting to

remove her clothes -- Gretel following her with a camera...

... Shirley's talon-like fingernails caressing the gooseflesh

on her tanned arm...

Ratso stretched out on a Victorian love seat -- the flower

girl walking unsteadily, passing out dead daffodils, placing

one in Ratso's hand Gretel photographing his reaction...

... Shirley bringing Joe a massive sandwich on a paper plate,

watching him bite into it...

... the tall black girl and a few others are trying to

promote an orgy. A scrofulous old wino dances spastically,

working his toothless gums, preparing to expose himself to

two girls dancing together...

... five youths stand beside the sarcophagus -- two sailors,

two cycle freaks, a weight-lifter -- waiting to be

pallbearers. Joe joins them. All lights and cameras are

turned on the slow funeral procession, carrying the flower

girl out of the loft to the tune of "Moonlight and Roses".

Strobe light adds to the unreality of the scene...

... Shirley talks to Gretel as she photographs the funeral.

INT. MACALBERTSON LANDING - NIGHT

Shirley is pulling her coat out of the pile on the bannister.

Joe turns to Ratso, whose attention is fixed on the coats.

She takes a dollar from her purse and hands it to Ratso,

takes Joe's arm and starts down the stairs. Ratso lingers,

starting quickly through the coats, frisking them for loose

change.

INT. LOFT BUILDING LOBBY - NIGHT

At the foot of the stairs, Shirley kisses Joe violently.

They glance up as Ratso appears, swinging down too rapidly on

the bannister. He misses a step and falls -- a clown's fall,

unable to stop but apparently not hurting himself. Shirley

and Joe are laughing when Ratso lands at the foot of the

stairs.

INT. TAXICAB - NIGHT

Joe and Shirley are kissing. Shirley rolls away, flushed,

fanning herself. Joe rolls down the window.

EXT. VILLAGE STREET - NIGHT

Joe leans out of the taxi window, waving his Stetson,

bellowing at the snow.

EXT. LOFT BUILDING - NIGHT

Ratso makes his way slowly from the building to the curb,

whistling between his teeth sharply, hailing a cab. The cab

slows to a stop. Then the driver sees Ratso, shifts into gear

and drives on. Ratso bites his thumb after the cab, rests for

a moment on the lamp post, then starts painfully inching his

way along the deserted street.

INT. SHIRLEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Joe lies on his back, staring fixedly at a fragile mobile

hanging from the ceiling, stirring listlessly.

Shirley leans on one elbow, looking at Joe sympathetically,

fighting an almost irrepressible desire to laugh. Still

avoiding Shirley's eyes, Joe finds a cigarette on the side

table, searches for matches.

Joe finds the matches, lights up and lies back, staring at

the mobile as he smokes, still not looking at Shirley.

The repressed laugh finally breaks through. Shirley stifles

it quickly as Joe sits up, looking at her.

Close on Joe -- watching Shirley closely, reacting.

Shirley composes her face, reaching out to touch Joe. But

that doesn't help either. He reacts sharply.

Extreme close-up of Joe -- frowning, puzzled...

... camera pulling back to show Joe concentrating on a game,

spread out on the sheet, consisting of nine dice lettered on

all sides, the object being to build as many words as

possible, Scrabble fashion, while a sand timer counts the

seconds. Shirley watches Joe's efforts to think with

sympathetic amusement. The only word Joe has composed so far

is MAN.

Joe spells out MONY, down from the M in MAN.

Shirley slyly trails the tips of her fingernails across Joe's

chest as she leans over to study the game, breathing softly

into his ear as she speaks.

One predatory hand rests on his knee -- as if by accident -

disarranging the sheet, talon nails lightly brushing his

thigh.

But the end of his sentence is swallowed by Shirley, taking

his kiss in her open mouth, crushed by its impact, an animal

noise snarling deep in her throat -- the agonized alley cat

wail of pleasure -- Joe's problem is solved. Joe's love theme

swells triumphant. At the same time, Shirley half-rises,

trying to force Joe's head down, her own on top. The issue is

joined. Shirley has named the game. Her objective is to force

Joe onto his back. Joe's objective is to retain his

initiative. Camera ignores the classic action on the central

front, concentrating exclusively on peripheral tactical

maneuvers...

... Joe's elbows pinning her shoulders...

... her eyes bright, accepting the challenge...

... his tight smile revealing clenched teeth...

... her fingers searching out then tickling his underarm...

... Joe laughing as he falls lopsidedly...

... Shirley laughing triumphantly...

... his hand closing on her wrist...

... her talon-nails clawing the air...

... her toes walking up his calf...

... her legs suddenly locking around his knees...

... her free hand grabbing his hair...

... her shoulder rising as she forces his head back...

... her lips pressing down on his...

... his hand swatting an unidentified mass of flesh...

... her eyes popping, teeth clamping his ear lobe...

... his hand catching her ankle...

... her teeth losing the ear lobe as she screams...

... her foot appearing upside down beside her face...

... her talon-nails furrowing flesh, drawing blood...

... his head rearing back, roaring...

... both rolling to the floor, out of view...

... her feet suddenly flying up into view...

... her hand tugging rhythmically at the blanket...

... her other hand wildly exploring Joe's back...

... her ankles locking spasmodically...

... her eyes and mouth wide, gaping...

... the blanket suddenly ripping free, flying into the air as

her arm flings itself around Joe...

... the bedclothes spilling down around them, muffling her

ascending shrieks.

INT. SHIRLEY'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Shirley has difficulty reverting to her nine-to-five role as

a Madison Avenue career girl. Half-dressed for work, she is

talking on the telephone, her eyes on the open door to the

bathroom, through which Joe's voice continues singing.

INT. SHIRLEY'S BATHROOM - MORNING

Thoroughly shaved, bathed and groomed, Joe is sprinkling an

expensive cologne into his boots. He yells back

enthusiastically.

INT. SHIRLEY'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Shirley turns back to the phone. Joe appears, grinning.

Shirley opens her purse, savoring the moment. As she places

the money in Joe's hand...

INT. MEN'S STORE - DAY

... Joe slaps a bill on the counter, admiring a fine new

cowboy shirt in the mirror, wriggling new white socks into

his boots. Suddenly remembering, he goes to the sock rack and

buys two pairs, one large and one small. Gradually

dominating, Joe's love theme recurs, continuing over...

INT. CHAIN DRUG STORE - DAY

... Joe slaps down money to pay for an assortment of

medicine.

INT. CONDEMNED TENEMENT - DAY

Joe takes the stairs two at a time to burst in on...

INT. X FLAT - DAY

... Ratso huddled in the overstuffed chair -- wearing the

stolen sheepskin coat -- wrapped in blankets, his teeth

chattering, in spite of the sweat on his forehead. Joe stops

abruptly, his mood shattered by Ratso's alarming condition.

They simply stare at each other for a moment, then Joe turns

away to see soup heating on the Sterno stove. Joe tosses one

of his paper bags onto Ratso's lap...

Ratso opens the paper bag, trying to control his shivering,

pulling out the socks and a suit of long underwear. He sees

Joe watching him for a reaction. The best Ratso can do is a

slight shake of his head.

Joe hands Ratso the soup. Ratso seems steadied by the warmth

in his hands. He nods, sipping the soup.

Ratso is trembling so violently that the sou, starts to slop

over. Joe takes it and sets it on the table.

Joe sets his Stetson on his head.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - DAY

Joe strikes a match with his thumbnail and watches it curl

away while he waits, hearing a phone ring. Then the phone is

answered by a woman's voice.

Joe hangs up while the answering service's voice is still

talking. The match has burned out. Joe flips it away.

INSERT

Headline -- WALTER P. BOX TAKES NEW YORK BY SURPRISE.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - DUSK

Joe loiters outside a gag headline print shop, his eyes

following a man in homburg and chesterfield.

EXT./INT. METROPOLE - DUSK

Joe lingers momentarily, identifying with the violence in a

jazz drummer, his eyes searching for a pickup.

INT. ARCADE - DUSK

Joe tests his skills in a shoot-down with a large metal

cowboy and kills him, a recorded voice sneaks, "Got me!" as

the cowboy slumps. Joe glances off as he hears polite

applause...

... TOWNY -- a stout, round-faced man -- clasps Joe's hand

between both of his own, like an old friend.

Towny grips Joe's elbow, almost forcibly leading him away.

EXT. SIDE STREET WEST OF BROADWAY - DUSK

Towny's face appears huge at Joe's shoulder.

Towny's mouth continues speaking at an incredible rate, but

his words are drowned out momentarily by the grinder of a

sanitation truck, chewing up a discarded Christmas tree with

tinsel clinging to it. Towny is still talking when they've

passed the truck.

EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT

Joe hardly notices O'Daniel on a far cornet, his whining

scarcely audible.

"Ye are the salt of the earth, Jesus said, but if the salt

hath lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted?"

INT. TOWNY'S HOTEL ELEVATOR - NIGHT

An ancient open cage lift.

INT. TOWNY'S HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

A threadbare, carpeted but spacious hallway.

INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

The room has little to recommend it except its size and large

French window, through which -- ignored by Joe -- the Mutual

tower flashes MONY. Towny waves Joe toward the couch, quickly

slipping several physical culture magazines from the coffee

table onto a shelf beneath.

INT. TENEMENT STAIRS - DAY

Joe carries Ratso down the stairs, wrapped in a blanket.

INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

The coffee table is littered with empty cartons of Chinese

food, soaked through with brown sauce. Joe finds the last egg

roll and eats it as Towny's voice drones on.

Towny's dialogue moves out of sync. Towny's eyes seem to look

into camera -- from Joe's viewpoint -- but slightly past it.

The quality of the scene grows increasingly disjointed as Joe

glances around the room, looking for something to steal,

losing personal contact with Towny, viewing him as an object

to be used for a specific purpose.

EXT. TENEMENT NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Ratso sits an a stoop while Joe hails a cab.

INT. TOWNY'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Towny's voice is only a shrill monotone from here, Joe

searches with increasing desperation for something of value.

An old electric razor is too bulky for Joe's pocket, probably

worthless anyhow. Towny's array of medicines merely recalls

Joe's purpose.

EXT. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL - DAY

Joe lifts Ratso from the taxi and carries him inside.

INT. TOWNY'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Joe is rehearsing the speech in the bathroom mirror.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL - DAY

Joe stands in a long line, glancing impatiently at the clock

while Ratso waits on a bench, wrapped in his blanket.

INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Towny is stretched out on the couch, staring morosely.

Joe moves into frame past camera, standing in front of him,

so that we can see the scene from behind Joe's waist.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL - DAY

Joe's face is expectant, next in line at the ticket window.

He nods reassuringly toward Ratso.

INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Joe's face is puzzled then angry as Towny takes a Saint

Christopher medal from his sack and hands it to Joe. His eyes

are looking past Joe, his speech out of sync.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL - DAY

It's Joe's turn. The clerk looks at him expectantly.

INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Joe's voice is angry.

Towny hurries across the room to the bedside table. Beside

the telephone is a picture of a prosperous pioneer woman

wearing a hearing-aid.

Towny tries to conceal his movements as he takes a wallet

from the drawer, lifts out a bill and tucks the wallet back

and turns -- terrified to see Joe close behind him -- almost

knocking the lamp off the table in his fright. Pressed

against the table, protecting but calling attention to his

wallet, Towny holds out the bill.

Towny clutches the table, staring at Joe, shaking his head

like a bad little boy. Joe backhands him angrily. Trying to

duck the blow, Towny stumbles and slips to the floor, but

grabs the table in his arms, watching Joe out of the corner

of his eyes, whimpering. Joe grabs his hair, turning his face

up.

Joe slaps him, but Towny clings more fiercely to the table as

Joe tries to jerk it free. Joe strikes him with his fist.

But he clutches the table wildly. His mother's picture falls

unnoticed. Joe stands in panic, sickened, unable to fulfill

the role Towny has assigned him.

Towny's eyes shine, teeth clenched in a crazy smile, blood

trickling from his nose. Suddenly Joe jerks the lamp free of

its socket.

Towny simply stares at the lamp.

Joe threatens, swings the lamp down, but stops short of

hitting Towny. Towny shrieks -- eyes rolling back as he falls

limp -- loosing his grip on the table, leaning on the bed,

laughing and crying hysterically. Joe has to step over him to

reach the wallet in the drawer. He takes all the money --

probably twice what he needs -- desperate to get out of the

room.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL - DAY

Joe carries Ratso up the steps onto the bus.

INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Towny's shrill little whisper says...

... provoking Joe to glance back. Towny is reaching for the

telephone, his eyes on Joe with wild brightness, holding his

hand on the receiver. Joe knocks the phone from his hand,

hits Towny in the mouth, jerks the cord from the wall as

Towny falls -- gagging -- finally dislodging his dentures on

the carpet. Joe stands sick and confused, holding the useless

phone in two hands...

EXT. GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL - DAY

The bus driver revs the powerful engine, shifting gears.

INT. TOWNY'S BEDROOM-SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

... Joe is about to hang the dead receiver on its hook when

on sudden impulse -- he shoves the small end of the receiver

into the toothless mouth of the man on the floor.

EXT. LINCOLN TUNNEL - DAY

The bus roars into the tunnel.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAY

Joe and Ratso sit near the rear of the bus. Ratso's teeth

chatter, wrapped in the blanket.

They ride a few moments in silence.

Both nod for a moment in silence.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The bus tires sing as it speeds South.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAY

Joe and Ratso have reversed places, putting Ratso by the

window. Joe watches a middle-aged couple try on their new

straw hats, unaware that Joe is watching them.

EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT

The metal grating rings as the bus soars onto it.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - NIGHT

Two aging young ladies in brand-new resort wear are casually

examining Joe, along with the other men on the bus, but Joe

is frowning at Ratso, who shivers despite the bright sun.

Joe nods. Ratso closes his eyes, momentarily at peace.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAWN

The bus passes a Florida hotel sign too swiftly to read it.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAWN

Joe frowns in his sleep, awakens, lifts his Stetson to see

Ratso wide awake, in misery, wiping tears from his eyes.

Joe laughs suddenly, uncontrollably.

Ratso begins to laugh with Joe as if it were the funniest

thing they'd ever heard. Then Ratso's face pales as he starts

to choke and cough. Joe pats him on the back.

EXT. SMALL TOWN STREET - DAY

The bus is parked in the distance. Joe comes from a clothing

store, bare-headed, wearing plain slacks and sport-shirt. He

carries the boots, Stetson and cowboy suit in one hand, a

bundle under his arm. He dumps his cowboy regalia in the

trash bin of a sandwich stand and calls to the WAITRESS.

The Waitress draws coffee, wraps crullers.

Joe pays. She smiles, gives him change. Joe smiles, starts on

toward the bus, hardly aware that he has accomplished

something rare and remarkable for Joe -- a simple human

contact without fear or threat, a pleasant everyday

happening.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAY

Joe and Ratso have moved to the seat farthest back, wider

than the others. Joe blocks the view of the other passengers

as he helps Ratso into a new pair of corduroy pants and a

Florida shirt. In the middle of the operation, Ratso dozes

off. Joe shakes his head, scowling, annoyed, but continues,

lifting Ratso enough to slide the pants around his waist.

Ratso awakens as Joe zips the fly.

They both smile. It isn't funny enough to laugh at. Joe

arranges the blanket, takes out a package of cigarettes,

glances at Ratso and puts it away.

EXT. TRAVELING SHOT WITH BUS - DAY

Palm trees are streaking past the window. The sun is glaring

hot. A group of kids in bare feet and straw hats wave to the

bus as it passes.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAY

Ratso's eyes squint in a dazed half-sleep. Joe leans across

to pull down the shade. He hesitates a moment, watching...

... past his reflection, a group of young men on their way to

work, carrying lunch pails, dressed exactly as Joe is now

dressed...

... then Joe lowers the blind and seats himself. Ratso nods

slightly, his voice practically inaudible.

Joe glances at Ratso, but there is no response.

Surreptitiously, Joe takes out a cigarette, turns his face

away from Ratso and lights it, hiding it cupped in his hand

as he smokes.

They ride for a moment in semi-darkness, Joe smoking, looking

at the other people on the bus, brighter without the shades

down. Joe turns, checking the blanket around Ratso, noticing

that Ratso is sitting in a peculiarly stiff, awkward

position. Joe leans over to straighten Ratso's head, blocking

our view for a moment. Then Joe leans back, frowning,

thoughtful. We still do not see Ratso's face. Joe rises

slowly, starting forward in the bus...

... passing an older couple, a schoolgirl, two ladies with

straw hats, a young man trying to read, pausing when he

reaches...

... the DRIVER, staring out at the Sunshine Parkway with the

Driver, leaning over so he won't have to speak too loudly.

He glances at Joe, then pulls off the road and stands up.

The passengers crane their necks as Joe follows the Driver to

the rear of the bus. The passengers at the rear are staring

ahead, trying not to see what is going on. The Driver touches

Ratso, straightens, touches his hat, but doesn't remove it.

Joe nods no.

Joe closes Ratso's eyes.

The Driver moves to the front and turns to the passengers.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAY

Joe sits stiffly, very frightened, as the bus starts on. Then

he glances at Ratso, frowning, reaches out an arm and puts it

around Ratso, settling back, staring straight ahead.

