FADE IN:

EXT. HOUSE IN THE HOLLYWOOD HILLS - EARLY MORNING

A two-story California Craftsman with a SOLD sign in the

front yard. Yukon SUV pulls into the drive and stops.

The driver's door opens and DEREK CHARLES steps out, a

handsome and likable African-American in his early 30's; a

guy who's fought hard to make himself a success in business

and life. Derek wears a business suit and the first thing he

does is cross the lawn to the SOLD sign.

With a new homeowner's look of satisfaction, Derek grips the

SOLD sign and pulls it out of the ground.

D erek looks over to where his pretty wife BETH is standing

beside the SUV, holding their cute 2 year old son KYLE in her

arms. Beth shakes her head with amusement.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MINUTES LATER

The SOLD sign, now in pieces, burns brightly in the

fireplace. The rest of the room is empty except for KYLE who

is nearby, asleep in his stroller. Derek and Beth's VOICES

drift down from upstairs.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - SECOND FLOOR

Derek and Beth stare up at their own reflections in a huge

ceiling mirror. The rest of the room is vacant.

Derek puts his arms around her waist and pulls her close.

Beth resists -- but only slightly.

Beth smiles, giving in. They look up at themselves in the

mirror like naughty teenagers.

M

CONTINUED:

As they begin to kiss passionately...

CEILING MIRROR - MINUTES LATER

Distorted images of Derek and Beth in the mirror's

reflection, naked bodies intertwined, making love on the

carpet.

I

Kyle continues to snooze in his stroller. Outside the

window, a moving van arrives and BLOWS its horn.

INT. BEDROOM

Beth, drowsing in Derek's arms.    They stir at the sound of

the horn.

They share a quick kiss and then Beth swings over to find her

clothes.

As Beth dresses, Derek stares up at himself.    He smiles with

satisfaction. Life is good.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

dining room area below the stairs.

Nearby, Beth opens a box and removes family pictures. She

arranges them with loving care on the mantle above the fire

place.

A

T

CONTINUED:

FRAMED PHOTOS of Derek and Beth in their early dating days,

at their wedding, celebrating holidays, Beth pregnant, the

birth of Kyle; photos illustrating the history of this happy

family.

INT. YUKON - DAY

Picture of Beth and Kyle smiling at him from the dash, Derek

drives the freeway toward the skyscrapers of downtown. He

listens to the stock and financial report. Then, switches

over to CD and Gnarls Barkley's "Gone Daddy Gone" blares out.

The two sides of Derek Charles.                        C

EXT. DOWNTOWN LA - DAY

ANGLING DOWN from a towering glass and steel office building

as Derek's Yukon enters the parking garage.

INT. ELEVATOR

Derek and several others ride up from the parking garage.

Derek scans the Business page of a folded newspaper.

and MORE PEOPLE get on. The doors shut and the car ascends.

and one other passenger: LISA SHERIDAN, balancing an arm

load of thick files. She's in her mid-20's, white,

beautiful, glasses and hair pulled back projecting an

efficient, smart and sophisticated look; simple blouse and

skirt, high heels, great legs.

Lisa glances over at Derek, intrigued.

Derek looks up from his paper with a distracted smile.

CONTINUED:

Lisa shifts on her feet.

Derek glances down at her shapely legs.

That's when the pile in her arms slides south.       The files

fall to the floor and spread out in a mess.

Lisa LAUGHS and drops to her knees.

Derek bends down to help.     Their hands touch briefly.

T

CONTINUED: (2)

They straighten up, look at each other.

GAGE BENDIX, ALTERNATIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT.

CAMERA FOLLOWS Derek through a warren of cubicles where STAFF

WORKERS attend phones and computers. He becomes aware that

Lisa is right behind him.

Approaching a desk where Derek's assistant, a mild-looking

man in his late 30's named PATRICK looks up and smiles.

Across from Patrick is another desk and another assistant, a

middle-aged woman named MARGE.

CONTINUED: (3)

Patrick CHUCKLES as Derek enters his office and vanishes

inside. Patrick notices Lisa standing there with her arm

load of files.

Lisa stares at Derek's office.

Lisa breaks into a smile; obviously charmed.

Patrick takes amused notice of Lisa's interest in Derek.

INT. MEETING ROOM - LATER

Derek sits at a long table with his silver-haired boss, JOE

GAGE and his best friend and co-worker BEN KINGMAN. One wall

of the room is glass, giving a view of the outer office

activity.            G

Derek looks over at Ben who winks at him. They're friends

and good-natured ribbing is part of their relationship.

CONTINUED:

T

Gage perks up.

Ben agrees. Derek merely nods.        He's not comfortable with

this tone of sexism.

INT. OFFICE - EVENING

End of the day. Workers are leaving. Derek passes an open

office door. Ben sticks his head out.

D

CONTINUED:

Ben ducks back into his office.      Derek walks past a cubicle

on their way to the elevator.

Derek stops, turns and sees Lisa sitting at a computer

station. She smiles. L

D

CONTINUED: (2)

Can't tell if he heard. Lisa watches him go out of sight,

then, curious, she turns to her computer and pulls up Derek's

bio and picture on the company web site:

"Derek Charles graduated from UCLA with a major in finance.

Began his career with major Wall Street Brokerage firm before

joining Gage/Bendix working with clients to help them

accomplish their investment objectives. From asset

allocation and investment planning, pension analysis, etc."

INT. CHARLES HOUSE - KYLE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Kyle is asleep in his crib. Derek and Beth look down on him,

smiling, then move quietly toward the door. Before they can

sneak out, Kyle lets out A CRY. They look at each other.

Beth leaves. Derek carries Kyle over to the changing table,

opens Kyle's diaper and turns away.

T

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Derek and Beth sit at a table on the outside deck that

overhangs a sheer drop to the canyon below. In the distance,

the LA basin sparkles like a diamond in the night.

Derek and Beth are happy but exhausted. In front of them is

an empty pizza box. Derek picks up a bottle of champagne and

pours some for Beth and himself. They're both a little

drunk.

CONTINUED:

EXT. OFFICE - MORNING

Derek arrives to find Lisa sitting at his outer desk in

Patrick's place. She looks up and smiles. She's not wearing

her glasses and her hair is down giving her a softer, less

severe look.

Looking over at the assistant outside the other corner

office.

Back to the temp.

Derek goes into his office.       Lisa collects her things and

does as told.

INT. DEREK'S OFFICE

Derek goes behind the desk as Lisa enters and sits down on

the couch. She crosses her legs. Those great legs.

CONTINUED:

Derek picks up the memo and scans it.

Derek notices a container of Starbucks coffee.

Derek is impressed.    He opens the container.

Lisa is pleased.    She raises her pad and pencil.

CONTINUED: (2)

CONTINUED: (3)

INT. CHARLES HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Beth is feeding Kyle while talking on the phone to Derek.

INTERCUTTING DEREK IN HIS OFFICE, while he listens and goes

over reports.

Outside, at her desk, Lisa eavesdrops on her headset,

listening with interest.

CONTINUED:

A

phone, he slowly gets up from his desk and moves quietly to

the door. He looks out, expecting to catch Lisa listening

in. Instead, she's not at her desk. She's standing several

feet away at a file cabinet. She turns and smiles at him.

Derek shakes his head no and steps back into his office.

INT. CHARLES HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Derek finishes some work on his home computer.       In the

background, Beth sits in bed reading a book.

Derek finishes. He rises, walks over to the bed and climbs

in beside Beth. She puts her book on the night table and

switches off the light. They cuddle together. Beth

CHUCKLES.

CONTINUED:

Derek gives Beth a look.

They get comfortable.      Beth puts her head on Derek's chest.

Beth LAUGHS, gives him a playful punch.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

TWO DELIVERY GUYS come out of the stairwell, struggling with

an undecorated Christmas tree. Marge directs them to a spot

to put it.

INT. DEREK'S OFFICE

Beth and Kyle are visiting. Derek has Kyle on his desk,

letting him play with his keys.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED: (2)

Beth laughs.       Lisa appears at the door.

They turn.    Lisa smiles sweetly.

Lisa comes over.       Kyle presses shyly against Derek.

When Kyle doesn't respond...

CONTINUED: (3)

Lisa steps back, moves off to the door.

She did it on purpose, winking at Derek.    He smiles.

If Lisa knows she's being fucked with, she doesn't show it.

Lisa exits.   A beat.

CONTINUED: (4)

They put Kyle in his stroller.

Derek beams.    They share a kiss.

EXT. ELEVATOR

Derek, Beth and Kyle are surrounded by office workers making

a fuss over Beth and Kyle. Even Joe Gage comes out of his

office to embrace Beth and chat.

T

L

CONTINUED:

Lisa watches from a distance. Her face betrays no emotion.

After a moment, she turns and enters Derek's office.

framed picture on Derek's desk -- Derek, Beth and Kyle, the

perfect happy family.

Nearby, Lisa sees a pile of CD's.    She looks through them and

smiles with an idea.

INT. SUV - DAY

A warm LA morning with a hot sun coming up.    Derek drives to

work, listening to Gnarls' "Crazy."

INT. OFFICE - MORNING

Workers hang bulbs and decorations on the Christmas tree.        A

festive holiday spirit is in the air.

Derek exits the elevator, heads to his office.      Patrick is

back at his desk.    D

Derek turns to see Lisa, now sitting at Marge's desk.

D

CONTINUED:

A beat.   Lisa wonders if she might make a friend here.

They share a laugh, bonding.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Deserted at lunch hour. Derek, in shirtsleeves, emerges from

his office and approaches the Break Room.

INT. BREAK ROOM

Derek enters, opens the refrigerator and takes out a lunch

bag. He hears a slight SNIFFLING NOISE, turns and is

surprised to find Lisa seated a corner table, a little

tearful.

Lisa looks up, quickly wipes her eyes with her hand and puts

on a smile.

An awkward moment.    Lisa starts to rise.

Lisa sits back down.    Derek starts to leave; hesitates.

CONTINUED:

Lisa hesitates, wondering if she can confide.

Derek sits down beside her.       He puts a comforting hand on her

shoulder.

CONTINUED: (2)

She looks up at him; smiles.

Lisa gets up.

I

CONTINUED: (3)

Lisa nods.    She smiles and exits.

sandwich.

B

Ben goes to the refrigerator, opens it and starts rooting

around.

CONTINUED: (4)

With a grin, Ben "pulls the trigger -- bang!" and exits.

Derek looks a little annoyed.                          C

INT. DEREK'S OFFICE - DAY

Derek at his desk. He notices an envelope with his name on

it. He opens the envelope. A note and a home-made CD slide

out.

"Thanks for the shoulder, Lisa.   (Thought you might like

these.)"

Curious, Derek feeds the CD into his computer, lowers the

volume and is hit with Gnarls Barkley in concert. He turns

down the volume and smiles, continues to listen.

He hear the ding of an IM on his computer.     It's from

TEMPGIRL:

TIS THE SEASON TO BE GNARLY.

Derek considers, types back.

WHERE DID U FIND THIS

Reply: CONCERT BOOTLEG.   TOTALLY ILLEGAL.   WE COULD BE

ARRESTED.

He responds: WORTH THE RISK.   I LUV GNARLS.

CONTINUED:

Reply: ME 2

He responds:   THANX.    GET BACK 2 WORK.

She replies: GONE DADDY GONE.

Derek smiles, then goes back to work.

INT. CHARLES HOUSE, KITCHEN - DAY

Breakfast. Beth and Derek at the table. Derek is feeding

Kyle. We can see a naked, undecorated Christmas tree in the

next room.

Kyle shakes his head "no" and points at the Christmas tree.

Kyle considers; then furiously eats.    Derek and Beth LAUGH.

INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

Derek sits at the bar by himself, reading the paper. He

looks up and sees Lisa come in. Lisa catches Derek's eye,

surprised. Then she smiles, starts to make her way over...

CONTINUED:

A HALF-HOUR LATER

Lisa is sitting next to Derek at the bar. The food has come.

Lisa chews and nods in agreement.

L

CONTINUED: (2)

Touche.   They both smile.

Derek's not sure.

INT. OFFICE - EVENING

The Christmas party is in full swing with MUSIC, TWO

BARTENDERS and lowered lights.   The tree is all lit up. The

mood is happy and playful and people are getting a little

tipsy.

M

D

CONTINUED:

A MALE WORKER gives A FEMALE WORKER a back massage with a

computer mouse.

Joe Gage, in a Santa suit, is passing out gag presents.

Lisa is in a group with Patrick and some other women,

chatting. She glances over and sees Derek.

He's off to the side with Ben, sipping drinks.

style dancing, crowding into the center of the room.

some half-hearted dance moves, then gets into the spirit.

It's crowded, people are close together and a moment later,

Derek finds himself dancing face to face with Lisa.

D

CONTINUED: (2)

This makes her smile happily.

Derek looks up, too.       They're under the mistletoe.

They look at each other, smile.       An awkward moment.    Derek

laughs it off.

But Derek steps away.

The music changes, breaking the mood.       Derek smiles at Lisa

and slips away, rejoining Ben.

H

another drink.

CONTINUED: (3)

Derek heads down the hall, a little unsteady.

INT. MEN'S ROOM

Derek enters. No one else around. He goes to the urinal and

begins to unzip. About 30 seconds later he hears the door

open and close but thinks nothing of it because it is a large

public Men's restroom in the workplace with 4 urinals and 2

stalls.

But suddenly, a hand snakes around his waist and grabs his

crotch. Derek whirls around, face to face with a brazen,

smiling Lisa who dangles a sprig of Mistletoe in her free

hand. Her eyes flash with desire.

Lisa tries to kiss him. Derek resists. He staggers away

from the urinal with Lisa still holding him.

They knock open a stall door and fall in. Derek goes back

against the toilet and Lisa is now practically straddling

him.                 D

That's when someone comes in. Derek kicks the stall door

shut with his foot just in time. He and Lisa freeze, pressed

close together as A DRUNK MALE WORKER staggers to the urinal

and unzips.

Lisa hides a GIGGLE.    Derek is horrified they'll be

discovered.

Then...

The Drunk begins to piss. Loudly. And then begins to sing

Santa Claus is coming to town... even more loud.

CONTINUED:

In the stall, Lisa and Derek are face to face. His hand

grabs her wrist as she squeezes his crotch. He tries to

remove it but her grip is like a vice.

Hearing something, the Drunk hesitates in mid-piss, looks

back over his shoulder.

Derek is trapped. Lisa gives him a naughty smile. She's in

control and enjoying this, turned on by the thrill of getting

caught.

Lisa is about to answer.      Derek hushes her.

When there's no reply, the Drunk resumes pissing.

Lisa smears the Mistletoe sprig against Derek's face, then

starts to go down on him. He clutches her head with both

hands forcing her to stop. She looks up at him, eyes

gleaming with passion.

The Drunk continues his piss. Endless. Finally.. finished.

He clumsily zips back up, lurches over to the sink. He looks

at himself in the mirror, runs his fingers through his hair,

smiles at himself and then stumbles out the door.

The stall door bangs open as Derek pushes Lisa aside and

staggers out, trying to zip up his fly.

A

P

CONTINUED: (2)

Lisa doesn't seem to understand but she's amused.    Derek is

already out the door.

INT. OFFICE

It's a wilder scene now. Sally Sloane is doing an

uninhibited table dance to the delight of everyone gathered.

head for the elevator.

the party. A little tipsy, he walks over to her.

Lisa pulls Patrick out with the other dancers.

INT. YUKON - NIGHT

Derek drives home. He's agitated, trying to calm down,

trying to make sense of what happened.

That's when he hears a SIREN. Derek's eyes go up to the rear

view mirror in panic as a police car with flashing lights

gains on him.

Derek pulls over, heart pounding.   This is all he needs right

now.

The police car flies by on its way to some emergency.

Derek closes his eyes; lets out a deep breath.

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE - NIGHT

Swept by headlights as Derek pulls into the drive.

INT. KYLE'S BEDROOM

Dark.   Derek looks in on his sleeping son.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM

Dark. Derek approaches the bed where Beth sleeps.     He slips

in beside her.

A long beat.   Derek considers telling her.

And Beth is already back asleep.

Derek lies there, in Hell. He looks up and sees his own dark

reflection in the ceiling mirror.                     C

INT. OFFICE - MONDAY MORNING

Derek gets off the elevator and walks to his office, turns a

corner and sees:

Lisa coming the other way, carrying files. Derek tenses and

stops, expecting the worst. Lisa merely gives him a pleasant

smile and walks by.

D

D

CONTINUED:

Like the other night never happened. Lisa continues on her

way, delivering the files to a co-worker.

beside Derek.

Derek turns, a little startled.        He registers Ben.

Derek goes to his office.        Ben goes to his.

INT. DEREK'S OFFICE - LATER

Derek looks up; tensing.

CONTINUED:

Lisa smiles and exits.    Derek is thinking Great, maybe she

doesn't remember.

EXT. DEREK'S OFFICE - LATER

Derek is at his desk working. It's the end of the day and

workers are leaving. Patrick appears at the door.

Patrick leaves. Through the open door, Derek can see other

workers leaving, getting on the elevator. Lisa is one of

them. She doesn't even look his way.

Derek relaxes, goes back to his work.

INT. PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT

Derek walks to his Yukon SUV, the only car remaining.        He

BEEPS it and the doors unlock.

As Derek opens the driver's door and slides inside, the

passenger door opens and Lisa slips in, wearing her overcoat

and an intimate smile.

CONTINUED:

Lisa lets the front of her overcoat fall open.        She's naked

underneath.

CONTINUED: (2)

Derek suddenly reaches across her and throws open the

passenger door.

Derek physically forces her out.

Derek quickly turns the key in the ignition, REVS the engine

and peels out in reverse. The passenger door bangs shut.

Lisa stands there in her overcoat staring in mute

disappointment as Derek speeds out of the parking garage.

INT. CHARLES HOUSE - NIGHT

Derek lets himself in, determined to tell Beth everything.

Derek heads for the dining room.

He stops, seeing Beth at the table, looking upset with a

bottle of wine and a glass.

H

CONTINUED:

Derek sits down at the table.

Derek reaches across the table and takes her hand.

There's no way he can tell her now.

CONTINUED: (2)

INT. BEN'S OFFICE - NEXT DAY

Derek, agitated, has confided in Ben who's both concerned and

a little turned on.

CONTINUED:

D

They look at each other.

Derek frowns at him.

INT. HUMAN RESOURCES - LATER

A determined Derek arrives and enters the offices of HENRY

TRUMAN, IN CHARGE OF HUMAN RESOURCES. A SECRETARY looks up

from her desk.

Derek enters Hank's office and closes the door.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED: (2)

Derek opens the door and exits.

Outside, down the hall, Ben is waiting.

Ben grins.    He raises his hand for a high five.

Derek, happier now, returns the high five.

T

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE - DAY

Christmas morning.

unwrapping presents, having a great time. For Derek, all

troubles are forgotten.                                C

INT. DEREK'S OFFICE - DAY

Derek, at his desk, in a good mood, on the phone.

Derek looks at the doorway where Ben is standing. Derek

gives Ben the thumbs up. Ben beams and does a little victory

dance.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - A WEEK LATER - NIGHT

Derek and Beth come in, dressed in tux and gown, exhausted

from a New Years party.

A "You Have Mail" DING comes from Derek's home computer on

the other side of the room.

D

I

U

CONTINUED:

Beth goes into the adjoining bathroom.

With a YAWN, Derek sits down at his computer and goes to e-

mail. He scans it and is instantly confused.

Dozens of e-mails, all from the same sender: TEMPGIRL.

A

up to reveal a self-taken photo of Lisa looking sexy and

inviting on a bed, smiling seductively and wearing skimpy

lingerie that shows off her sexy body.

Derek feels a jolt of panic.    He deletes it, brings up the

others.

Derek stares at Lisa on screen, feeling sick and invaded. He

isn't aware of Beth coming out of the bathroom behind him.

She approaches as he continues to delete.

She's about to peer over his shoulder. Derek hits the delete

key and the last photo of Lisa disappears.

Beth gives him a kiss on the cheek.

Beth goes away.

with Kyle sitting on Santa's knee at the Grove.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Derek is at his desk, tensely typing on the computer, sending

an e-mail to TEMPGIRL.

CONTINUED:

Derek types: LEAVE ME ALONE.

He sends it and sits back.

Almost instantly there's a reply.

D

TEMPGIRL has replied with one of those annoying YELLOW SMILEY

FACES. It winks at him.

Derek is chilled.

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE - DAY

Mid-January.   The withered Christmas tree waits at the curb

for pick-up.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - DAY

Beth helps Derek pack a bag.

D

CONTINUED:

overhead mirror.

INT. HOTEL BAR - NIGHT

A COCKTAIL WAITRESS delivers drinks to Derek, Joe Gage, Ben

Talbot and THREE OTHER MEN smoking cigars and relaxing after

dinner. The mood is rowdy. They're all a little toasted.

A drink is put in front of Derek.

The Cocktail Waitress leans down and WHISPERS in his ear:

D

flash of a young woman in a tight dress seated on a stool.

But a crowd of people move into his line of vision and when

they clear, the woman is gone.

Derek tenses.

The other guys chortle.

CONTINUED:

Derek picks up his drink and leaves.

EXT. PATIO OUTSIDE THE BAR

Low-lit. Empty. Derek comes out, flips open his cell to

call home. He puts his drink down on a table.

INTERCUTTING WITH BETH in Kyle's bedroom, putting him to

sleep.

Derek freezes. Across the patio, he sees A FIGURE slowly

approaching. It's a woman back-lit, a silhouette. But as

she passes into the light from the bar, she's revealed as

Lisa, transformed into an alluring femme fatale.

Beth picks up Kyle.

CONTINUED:

As Lisa comes closer...

Derek clicks off and pockets his cell.

On the other end, Beth looks perturbed.

Now Lisa comes face to face with Derek, smiling.     She boldly

picks up his drink and takes a sip.

Derek looks at her, astounded.

CONTINUED: (2)

Lisa turns aside. Out of Derek's sight, she slips a capsule

into his drink, then puts it back on the table.

She presses against him.

Lisa emits a musical little laugh and smooths her dress. She

registers Derek's angry face and clenched fists. She smiles.

Lisa disappears into the darkness, high heels echoing.

Derek feel his cell phone vibrate.     He pulls it out.

D

CONTINUED: (3)

Agitated, Derek picks up his drink, downs it and re-enters

the bar.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

After midnight.

but Derek is farther gone -- wobbly on his feet, bleary.

Ben goes one way, Derek the other.

Derek, feeling more and more disoriented, makes his way to

his room. He fishes around in his pockets and finds his key

card. He slides it and pushes open the door.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Derek lets himself in, doesn't even click on the lights.

There's enough moonlight coming through the window to lead

him to the bed where he flops down on his back. He doesn't

even bother to undress.

Derek closes his eyes, then opens them. He feels sick.

Sound and perception are playing games with his head. The

room begins to spin and he can hear a sound, a rushing noise.

Is it the shower in the bathroom? The bathroom door is shut

but there's a crack of light around the edges. Is someone in

there?

CONTINUED:

Derek is too out of it to care. He just wants to sleep, make

it go away. He closes his eyes, begins to drift off.

The bathroom door opens, letting in a cloud of steam and a

shaft of light. A woman's silhouette appears, naked. She

moves to the bed.

D

then, an amplified ZZZZIIIPPP.

Derek's eyes open in shock. He can't believe what he sees --

Lisa, naked, straddling him. Her hand caressing his face.

It's like a dream. A nightmare. Lisa smiles seductively and

puts a finger to her lips.

Her voice seems distorted like it's coming from another

world.

Derek tries to resist but finds he has no control over his

body or mind. All he can see is a shifting, distorted image

of Lisa's face... her smile... her teeth.. her lips... the

blazing look of sexual desire in her eyes. And somewhere in

those eyes he can see HIMSELF.

And that's the last thing Derek sees before he passes out and

the entire world goes black and silent.                C

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NEXT MORNING

Dazzling sunlight.       Derek wakes up, startled by a pounding on

the door.

D

CONTINUED:

Derek blinks, blinded by the sun. His brain is fogged and

he's disoriented. It takes him a moment to realize where he

is. A hotel room. Naked under the covers. How did he...

The door begins to open.

The door closes.

overslept and now he's late for the seminar.

Derek starts to get up, looks over and -- his heart stops.

There's Lisa sprawled beside him on her stomach, naked under

the covers. She opens her eyes and gives him a sexy, sleepy

smile, stretching her body like a cat.

Derek goes into panic mode, jumping out of the bed like it's

on fire.

Derek grabs Lisa by the arm, drags her out of the bed at the

same time gathering her clothes from the floor and thrusting

them into her arms.

CONTINUED: (2)

Lisa barely manages to slip into her dress before Derek opens

the door and pushes her out into the hall.

Derek slams the door.       On the other side, we hear Lisa's

musical laugh.

Derek locks the door. Shaking, he goes to the bed, sits on

the edge and buries his throbbing head in his hands.

INT. HOTEL - SEMINAR ROOM - MINUTES LATER

Derek slips in and takes a seat next to Ben at the end of a

big table. The other guys are there, also a little under the

weather. They take notice of his late arrival.

Derek glances over at Ben who frowns at him. Derek looks

over at the wall clock as Joe resumes talking. 10:35.

T

I

CONTINUED:

It's now 12:50. While Joe continues his talk, A HOTEL CLERK

quietly slips into the room, goes over to Derek and whispers

to him. Derek perks up with concern. He leans over to Ben,

WHISPERS:

Derek gets up and leaves.

Derek follows the Clerk.          As they turn a corner...

Derek stops dead. It's not Beth waiting for him. It's Lisa,

dressed sexy/casual, bright smile. The Clerk goes away.

Derek grabs her by the elbow and hustles her out of sight,

trying to keep his voice down.

Lisa gives him a sly smile.

CONTINUED:

Derek hauls her roughly back down the hall.

H

Derek throws her roughly against the wall.      She hits her

head, a little stunned.

Derek steps back, surprised by his own violence.

CONTINUED: (2)

Lisa reaches out to him.

Derek, in frustration, raises his hand as if to strike her.

Her eyes flash with excitement. Derek stops himself,

revolted by his own behavior.

Derek stares at her like she's a thing, an object.    He shakes

his head.

They stare at each other.

Then, Derek turns and goes into the seminar room, closing the

door behind him.

CONTINUED: (3)

With a heartbreaking expression of hurt, Lisa stares at the

door for a long moment, wipes a tear from her face and walks

away.

INT. HOTEL RESTAURANT - THAT NIGHT

Derek, Ben, Joe and the others eat dinner. A lively

atmosphere. Derek seems apart from the others, lost in

thought.

INT. ELEVATOR/HOTEL CORRIDOR - LATER THAT DAY

Derek gets off on his floor and heads to his room.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Derek steps inside and freezes, confronted with his worst

nightmare.

High heels and a path of discarded clothing leads to the bed

where Lisa lies in bed, naked under the covers, her eyes

shut, seemingly asleep.

Derek moves toward the bed and the sleeping girl.

No response. Her head is cocked to one side and her skin is

ghostly pale.

Derek leans over and shakes Lisa's naked shoulder.

It's like shaking a doll.

CONTINUED:

That's when Derek sees it. On the night stand: an empty

bottle of prescription pills. Derek picks up the bottle and

looks at the label: Ambien.

Derek grabs the bedside phone and punches Desk.

Derek hangs up. Now he puts one knee on the bed and takes

Lisa's face in his hands, turning her head. He might as well

be handling a marionette.

No response. He puts his ear to her naked chest, trying to

detect a heartbeat. If there is one, he can't hear it.

Derek gently slaps her cheeks. Rolls back her eye lids.

Nothing.

Now Derek begins to perform CPR. He tilts Lisa's jaw back,

clears her mouth and begins to breathe into her, alternating

chest compressions.

INT. ER WAITING AREA - NIGHT

In a corner, Derek looks haggard, being interviewed by a

veteran police detective, MONICA REYES. Reyes looks more

like a middle-aged suburban mom than a cop but she's very

good at her job.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED: (2)

Before Derek can respond, Reyes sees AN ER DOCTOR signalling.

Reyes goes to talk to the Doctor. Derek watches them talk.

The Doctor hands Reyes a piece of paper. Derek can't stand

the suspense. He walks over and interrupts.

Reyes nods to the Doctor and takes Derek aside.

Reyes hands Derek a piece of paper.   Written on it is DEREK

CHARLES and his phone number.

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

Dawn is breaking as Derek guides the Yukon into the drive.

He steps out, hesitates. The front door of the house opens

to reveal a very tense looking Beth in a robe.

D

CONTINUED:

They look at each other across the distance.     Derek walks to

her.

Derek nods.    This is not going to be easy.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

uncomprehending. A long beat, then...

CONTINUED:

Beth turns away, her face burning.

A beat.

CONTINUED: (2)

Derek reaches out.

Beth moves quickly upstairs. Leaving Derek there. He sits

back on the couch, head in his hands. At a loss. After a beat-

-

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Derek makes a determined rush up after her. Only to find the

bedroom door locked.

Derek's upset. Resigned, he makes his way over to--

INT. GUEST ROOM - CONTINUOUS

He grabs a pillow. Punches it twice. Knows he's in the dog

HOUSE--

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Lisa is propped up in a hospital bed, a dark brooding

expression on her face, tangled hair hanging down. Just

staring, eyes wide, a little dopey looking.

L

CONTINUED:

Monica Reyes appears in the doorway.

R

CONTINUED: (2)

Lisa looks at her oddly.

Lisa indicates a bouquet of flowers in a vase nearby.

Reyes inspects the attached card. "Lisa Darling, the other

night was just a misunderstanding. Don't ever leave me.

Love always, Derek."

CONTINUED: (3)

D

CONTINUED: (4)

Lisa could almost be talking about herself.   Reyes nods but

she's chilled.

She excuses herself.   Lisa goes back to happily smiling at

her flowers.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Derek and Joe Gage.

CONTINUED:

Marge sticks her head in.

Joe and Derek exchange looks.

INT. DEREK'S OFFICE - LATER

Derek and Monica Reyes face each other across Derek's desk.

CONTINUED:

Reyes gives him a blank look.

Reyes opens a bag.

Reyes puts a large pile of papers on Derek's desk.

Derek pages through, growing more alarmed. We see thing like

"THREE TIMES... FROM BEHIND... ON THE FLOOR... I WAS

SCREAMING... WE WERE LIKE TWO ANIMALS... COMING TOGETHER OVER

AND OVER... WHEN HE SLAPPED ME THE PAIN WAS EXQUISITE..."

CONTINUED: (2)

EXT. CHARLES LIVING ROOM - DAY

Beth moves through the room, stopping to pick up one of

Kyle's toys. She looks through the sliding glass window and

sees Derek on the deck, holding Kyle in his arms. They're

playing a game. Derek points to objects in the distance and

Kyle identifies them. "Truck... doggie... bird..." and so

on.

A tear in Beth's eye.   She comes closer.   They don't see her.

B

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE - NIGHT

A few days later.

INT. CHARLES LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

A 14 year old baby sitter SAMANTHA walks Beth and Derek to

the front door. They're dressed for a night out.

D

Derek grins and leads her out the door, calls back to

Samantha.

CONTINUED:

Samantha closes the door behind them and locks it.

INT. RESTAURANT - LATER THAT NIGHT

Derek and Beth sit together in a romantic candle-lit booth,

working on a bottle of wine.

He looks at her. It's been awhile since they've touched or

had sex, too. Beth smiles a little shyly, drops her eyes.

Derek pours the last of the bottle into Beth's glass and

signals the Waiter.

Derek smiles at Beth.        She looks at her wine glass.

Derek looks like he's been punched in the face.

CONTINUED:

Beth looks up and gives him a hard, cold look.

INT. CHARLES LIVING ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

S

listening to music on her I-pod while texting a friend on her

phone and paging through a teen magazine all at the same

time, multi-tasking.

She doesn't hear the door bell RING the first time. Or the

second. Then there's a LOUD KNOCKING. Samantha becomes

aware, looks around, then sees a shadowy figure through the

frosted window next to the door.

With a SIGH of annoyance, Samantha gets up and goes to the

door. She unlocks and opens it. Lisa is standing on the

threshold, looking fresh and pretty and smiling.

Lisa breezes right in.

K

CONTINUED:

Lisa takes out a cell phone, punches in a number.      Samantha

looks relieved.

Samantha shakes her head "no."

Lisa clicks off.

Lisa crosses to the stairs and goes up.      Samantha returns to

the couch and resumes texting.

INT. KYLE'S BEDROOM

light from the hall, turning Lisa into a silhouette. She

enters the room, silent as a ghost, and approaches Kyle's

crib. She stands over him, smiling down at the vulnerable

sleeping child.

Then, Lisa turns away and looks at herself in a mirror.

CONTINUED:

She takes out a tube of red lipstick and applies it to her

lips.

INT. LIVING ROOM - A MINUTE LATER

Samantha is listening to i-pod music/texting/watching TV.     In

the background, out of focus, Lisa comes down the stairs.

Lisa vanishes. Samantha sends a last message, then thinks

she ought to check on the baby. She gets up, starts for the

stairs when she gets another text message on her phone. She

checks it, laughs and returns to the couch to text her friend

back.                                                  C

INT. SUV - NIGHT

Derek and Beth drive home in tense silence.   Finally, Beth

speaks.

CONTINUED:

Derek turns the corner to their street. The house comes into

sight. The garage door goes up. Derek pulls into the drive

and guides the car into the garage.

INT. CHARLES LIVING ROOM - A MINUTE LATER

A key in the lock.     The door opens.    Derek and Beth enter.

On the couch, Samantha ends her texting and greets them with

a bright smile.

Beth and Derek freeze, turn and look at each other.

Beth streaks for the stairs.

CONTINUED:

Derek runs for the stairs.

INT. KYLE'S BEDROOM

Beth runs to the crib. To her horror, it's empty. Lisa lets

out a cry of anguish. Derek appears in the door. Lisa turns

to him in desperate panic.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Derek tears back down the stairs, shouting to Samantha.

He bursts out the front door.

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE - GARAGE

Derek races into the garage, yanks open the driver's door and

gets in. He starts the engine, turns to back out and --

Surprise! There's Kyle is in the backseat, strapped into his

car seat, smiling at his Daddy.

Derek gets out, pulls open the back door and unstraps his

son, then hesitates. What Derek sees makes his blood run

cold. On the child's forehead... a perfect red lipstick

kiss.

INT. HOSPITAL ER - NIGHT

Kyle is being examined by A DOCTOR while Derek and Beth

comfort him.

D

CONTINUED:

Monica Reyes appears in the doorway.

INT. ER WAITING AREA - A MINUTE LATER

D

CONTINUED:

Beth goes back into the examining room to join Kyle.

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

The SUV pulls up and parks. Derek and Beth get out. Derek

removes the sleeping Kyle from his car seat and carries him

to the front door where Beth waits.

INT. KYLE'S BEDROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Kyle is asleep as Derek tucks him in.    Beth CRIES OUT from

another part of the house.

Derek races out of the room.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM

The bedroom has been trashed. The bed has been stripped.

The ceiling mirror is now a spider-webs of cracks.

CONTINUED:

The closet is open and clothes are strewn about. Derek

discovers Beth on her knees, holding up a family photograph

in which Beth's head has been torn off.

Beth scrambles over and finds a wedding photo of herself and

Derek. Again, her head has been removed.

Derek crouches down and holds Beth who begins to cry, her

body shaking.

As he holds his wife, Derek looks up and sees their

reflection in the mirror -- twisted and distorted, like

Lisa's mind.

INT. CHARLES HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NEXT DAY

Derek and Kyle watch Baby Einstein on TV.

In the b.g., A SECURITY MAN installs a new alarm system.

Beth is on the phone, talking to someone.   Derek keeps an eye

on her.

Beth clicks off, starts dialing a new number.

CONTINUED:

On the other end, Lisa's cheerful voice:

Beth clicks off, gives Derek a defiant look.       Derek doesn't

know what to say.

The Security Man appears.

INT. GUEST ROOM - NIGHT

Derek lies in bed, wide awake, on guard. He hears a car

engine outside, gets up and goes to the window.

Derek looks out and sees a police patrol car in front of the

house. A moment later, it drives off.

CONTINUED:

Derek goes to Kyle's room. He's sleeping safely. He goes to

the master bedroom and observes Beth from the door way.

She's asleep.

Derek returns to the guest room.

A sudden SOUND.     Derek tenses.   He hops up and goes to the

window.

It's just the sprinklers going on in the front yard.

INT. CHARLES LIVING ROOM - NEXT MORNING

Derek is leaving for work.     He points to the security pad.

Derek opens the door and exits.      Beth closes it behind him,

then touches the keypad.

Beth watches from the window as Derek drives off to work.

Kyle is nearby playing. The phone rings. Beth goes over and

picks it up, a little wary.

CONTINUED:

As she listens with mounting concern, we...

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Patrick is at his desk.    The phone buzzes and he picks up.

Patrick perks up at the tone in Beth's voice.

INT. DEREK'S OFFICE

Derek is concentrating at his desk when his phone BUZZES.      He

answers quickly.

INTERCUTTING WITH:

INT. KYLE'S BEDROOM

Kyle is playing on the floor.      Beth is on the phone.

T

CONTINUED:

Beth clicks off and turns to Kyle.

Beth almost laughs.    She holds him close.

CONTINUED: (2)

Kyle toddles over to his toy box.

INT. OFFICE

At his desk, Patrick answers the phone.

CONTINUED:

The line goes dead.

E

W

CONTINUED: (2)

Poor Patrick looks like he's been hit in the face with a bag

of shit.

CUT TO LISA

She puts her cell phone in her pocket.

looking down at the Charles house.

INT. CHARLES HOUSE - DAY

Beth goes out the front door, arms full with Kyle and

overnight bags. She sets the alarm and shuts the door behind

her... only to realize she forgot her purse. Beth punches

back in, grabs the purse from inside and closes the front

door again behind her. Forgets to re-set the alarm.

Beth secures Kyle in his kiddie seat, then walks around to

the driver's side, gets in and drives away.

PAN UP TO Lisa watching.

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE - MINUTES LATER

Lisa approaches the back of the house, carrying a paper bag.

She steps up on the deck and goes to the kitchen door. She

doesn't even check to see if it's locked. She takes the bag

which contains a bottle of champagne and uses the bottle to

break a pane in the kitchen door window. Then she reaches

inside and unlocks the door.

INT. KITCHEN

Lisa steps inside and looks around at the cheerful room,

Kyle's high chair, the places set for three at the table.

L

happily, she begins to open shelves until she finds two

crystal champagne flutes. She takes them down. Now she

looks for an ice bucket and finds it.

INT.   BETH'S CAR

Beth drives down the hill, calling Derek on her cell.

INTERCUTTING DEREK IN THE OFFICE

S

CONTINUED:

Beth clicks off. She slows down and pulls into a driveway.

She backs out and returns up the hill.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM

Lisa enters, carrying the ice bucket with the champagne

bottle in it and the two flutes. She smiles excitedly, like

a woman preparing for her lover's return.

Lisa places the champagne on the night table.

She removes her coat to reveal a sexy white nightgown, then

reaches into the coat pocket and takes out a paper bag.

rose petals on the floor, making a trail to the bed.

I

Beth drives up the winding road to the house.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM

The ice bucket and champagne sit on the night table.

Lisa stretches out on the bed, amid the rose petals, leaving

a space for her lover beside her. She gazes up at the

cracked ceiling mirror. She smiles at herself and, thanks to

the cracked mirror, her smile is distorted, scary and insane-

looking.

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE

Beth pulls into the drive.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM

On the bed, Lisa hears the car.

She rolls off the bed and crosses to the window, parting the

curtains to look out.

HER POV

Beth stepping out of the car.

Lisa tenses, suddenly fearful.

INT. DEREK'S OFFICE

He can't work, glancing at his cell for Beth's call.

INT. FOYER

Beth lets herself in. She's about to set the alarm when she

hears the floor creak above her.

Beth freezes.    She waits, listens.

No further sound.    But Beth knows.

Beth goes to the front door as if to leave. She opens the

door and closes it as if she left the house.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM

Lisa, standing very still near the window, hears the sound of

the door opening downstairs, then closing.

Relieved, she moves to the window and peers out, expecting to

see Beth getting into the car. But there's no sight of her.

INT. FOYER

Beth pulls off her shoes and lays them by the door. She

begins to quietly tip toe up the stairs, certain to be as

quiet as she can.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM

Beth enters to see Lisa peering out the window.

Lisa whirls around. Beth is standing in the doorway, giving

Lisa a deadly look, like a cat who's just trapped a mouse.

Beth takes notice of the rose petals on the bed and floor.

Lisa is wide-eyed, terrified, caught. Lisa begins to edge her

way around the room.

Lisa's eyes dart around for escape.   Beth seems remarkably

calm.

And she means it, too.

Lisa tries to dart around her. But Beth cuts her off,

grabbing Lisa by the throat and forcing her back, slamming

her hard against the bed post.

L

her hard, grabbing a handful of Lisa's hair, ripping it out

by the roots as Lisa tries to get free. Lisa lets out a

subhuman shriek of pain.

Beth tosses the hank of hair aside, keeps on coming.    She's

beyond pissed.

Beth slaps and punches Lisa.

CONTINUED:

Lisa tries to fight back but Beth is a tiger, beating the

hell out of her, knocking her around the room.

As Beth pummels her, Lisa stumbles/retreats into the

adjoining bathroom. She slams the door shut and throws the

lock, face bleeding, looking around for a weapon, something

to protect herself with.

CRASH!   The bathroom door comes off its hinges as Beth barges

in.

Beth grabs Lisa by the head and slams her face into the

bathroom mirror. It cracks.

Lisa is wobbly, unable to stand. Her face is a bloody mess.

But before she can collapse, Beth props her up.

Beth forces Lisa down, shoves her head into the toilet and

flushes it, holding her there as Lisa flops and chokes.

Beth kicks Lisa out of the bathroom.

I

CONTINUED: (2)

Lisa lands on the floor and gets up, rose petals sticking to

her gown.

As Beth comes out of the bathroom, Lisa lunges for the night

table and grabs the bottle of champagne. She swings it and

hits Beth is the side of the head. Whack! The cork pops and

champagne goes spewing everywhere.

Stunned, Beth goes down on her knees. Lisa wipes blood from

her face, circling Beth, lips drawn back and teeth showing

like an animal.

Lisa raises the bottle to hit her again.

Beth lunges forward and tackles her. The bottle goes flying

as the two women thrash around on the floor.

I

Derek dials Beth's cell.

INT. CAR

Kyle snoozes in his car seat. Inside Beth's hand bag on the

front seat, her cell phone TRILLS.

Beth and Lisa fight on the floor like two she-demons.   Lisa

breaks free from Beth.

She crawls to the head of the stairs and grabs the post,

pulling herself to her feet, eager to escape.

Beth gives Lisa a shove. Lisa goes crashing down the stairs

and lands at the bottom in a heap.

Beth descends.

P

CONTINUED:

Lisa rises to her feet, wobbly.       She raises bloody hands in

surrender.

Lisa turns and desperately hobbles for the front door. But

Beth easily beats her to it, knocking Lisa aside and throwing

the chain.

B

wall for support Lisa back away, leaving a bloody smear.

Beth advances.

In the kitchen, the phone RINGS.       Both women freeze.

BEEEEEEP.

CONTINUED: (2)

Lisa tries to make it to the kitchen to get the phone. Beth

grabs her by the sleeve and pulls her back. The sleeve tears

loose in Beth's hand.

Lisa stumbles back toward the stairs. She scrambles upward,

thinking maybe she can get to the phone in the bedroom.

Lisa reaches the top step just as Beth snags her ankle,

stopping her. Lisa rolls around and viciously kicks Beth in

the shoulder with her other leg. Beth falls back, tumbles

halfway down the stairs.

Lisa makes it to the bedroom.   She sees the phone on the

night stand.

Lisa desperately grabs the phone.

INTERCUTTING DEREK IN THE OFFICE

Reacting in surprise and panic.

Before she can answer, Beth is suddenly there. She rips the

phone from Lisa's hand and strikes her with it. As Lisa

stumbles back into the hall landing, Beth speaks calmly, even

sweetly, into the receiver.

Beth hangs up the phone.

T

CONTINUED: (3)

Alarmed, Derek hurries out of the office, punching a number

into his cell as he runs to the elevator. A nervous Patrick

watches Derek exit...

Beth goes out into the hall and Lisa springs on her.

claw and punch at each other. With renewed strength, Lisa

forces Beth up against the bannister. Beth looks over the

side and down...

Fifteen feet below is that large glass dining table.

Lisa bangs Beth against the bannister. A few feet away is a

heavy crystal chandelier suspended from the ceiling by a

metal chain.

T

over, then Beth suddenly swings them around, reversing

positions --

The bannister cracks, breaks apart and Lisa topples over the

side.

As she's about to fall, Lisa reaches out and grabs the

chandelier with both hands.

By a miracle, it supports her and she swings back and forth

like a human pendulum but now the chandelier is beginning to

pull loose from it's ceiling mount. Plaster cracks and rips

away.

Lisa swings back and forth, dangling.

Beth stands on the landing. She looks at terrified Lisa,

then up at the ceiling mount. It won't take Lisa's weight

much longer.

And both women know it.

Lisa hangs by one hand, reaching out with her other hand to

Beth who could pull her to safety.

Beth considers. Then, as if coming out of dream, she slowly

reaches out to Lisa. Their hands lock together. Beth slowly

pulls Lisa toward her, toward safety.

L

T

CONTINUED: (4)

And, trusting, Lisa lets go.

But so does Beth!!!

With a look of horror on her face, Lisa falls through space.

The soundtrack goes dead silent as we go into slow motion.

Down, down, down Lisa falls. Her arms and legs flop around

like a marionette with its strings cut, clawing the air.

The fall seems endless.

Then... Lisa hits the glass dining table with her back.    Her

whole body buckles. The surface of the table ripples.

In slow mo, the glass shatters and explodes around Lisa,

framing her entire body, forming a halo around her head.

Sound returns -- the sound of breaking glass -- and it's

deafening.

The table gives way and Lisa lands hard on the marble floor,

her skull cracking. Her back is probably broken but she's

still conscious.

bounces and TINKLES around her.

The two enemies lock eyes.   Beth's face is impassive.

Lisa opens her mouth, trying to speak.

And that's when the chandelier breaks loose.

CONTINUED: (5)

Beth watches without emotion as the chandelier plunges

downward and hits Lisa in the chest with a radiantly

beautiful shower of crystals. It kills her on impact.

W

On the landing, Beth stares down at Lisa's body, splayed

under the chandelier like a broken doll. Lisa's eyes are

open but they're dead.

Beth, stoic, just stands there, looking down.

INT. DEREK'S SUV

As Derek speeds through traffic, desperate to get home.

INT. CHARLES HOUSE

Beth comes down the stairs, taking no notice of Lisa's

lifeless body. She goes to the foyer, unhooks the chain and

opens the front door.

EXT. CHARLES HOUSE

Outside, a car pulls up and Monica Reyes jumps out. Reyes

hurries up the walk and meets Beth standing in the open door.

Reyes looks into the house and sees Lisa's body, then turns

back as Beth goes to her car and opens the driver's door.

Beth turns back to Reyes.

H

I

CONTINUED:

Beth and Reyes lock eyes. Reyes nods her understanding. Beth

nods back, gets in the car, starts the engine and backs out

of the drive. Reyes watches her exit.

In traffic.    He dials his cell.

INTERCUTTING BETH IN HER CAR

She picks up her ringing cell phone, looks at the caller ID

and glances at Kyle in the rearview mirror.

Derek continues on against the traffic. The dashboard

picture of Beth and Kyle still smiling back at him.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT, PULLING BACK

As Beth's car drives away, passing police cars on their way

to the house.

THE END

