<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest

EXT. WORK FARM - NIGHTFALL

All we SEE is an ELEVATED SHOT of the distant mountains,

rolling landscape and McMURPHY -- one cheek laid-open and

crusted over with dried blood, his face and prison work

clothes caked with dried sweat and dust -- as he sits on the

very top of a water tower watching the last rays of sunlight.

A long moment passes before McMurphy's attention is drawn

elsewhere and he looks down.

REVERSE SHOT - McMURPHY'S POV

Far below, in the prison yard a MAN is SEEN hurrying acrcss

the yard where he joins a group of men composed of armed

prison guards, officials, and medics -- a stretcher, an

ambulance, a fire truck and safety nets spread out at the

base of the water tower. The man is seen talking to the

officials, then a bullhorn is handed to him and they all look

up at McMurphy.

McMURPHY

As he looks down at them, a searchlight is turned on him.

McMurphy doesn't respond.

McMurphy doesn't respond. Another searchlight goes on as a

SECOND VOICE is PICKED UP on the BULLHORN.

The BULLHORN is TURNED OFF. A long moment passes as McMurphy

continues to squat on the tower and wait. He shivers against

the coming night when...

An imperceptible smile appears on McMurphy's face.

INT. MEN'S DORM - OREGON STATE HOSPITAL - DAWN

Strange HUMMING SOUNDS, CLANKING PIPES and HISSING RADIATORS

as we see beds, with patients lying asleep, line two walls.

The third wall is a heavy gauge steel grill, with a door that

opens on to the day room. The door is open. On the far side

of the day room, a long hallway with other doors opening into

rooms: the latrine, washroom, tub room, mess hall, seclusion

room, psychiatrist's office, visitors' room, etc.

Across the day room, a glass enclosed nurses' station where

TURKLE, a Negro night attendant, is seen preparing to go off

duty.

The CAMERA PANS the beds in the men's dorm. One man turns,

another twists, a third lies as if dead.

CAMERA PAN ENDS on BROMDEN, who lies still, eyes wide open,

very alert. He reaches down, plucks a stale piece of gum from

under the bed frame, puts it in his mouth and starts chewing.

A beat, then Bromden carefully undoes the leather strap which

binds him to the bed. He slips out of bed and quietly makes

his way down the aisle, paying no attention to the other

patients, some of who are beginning to stir awake.

Ahead, at the end of the hallway, the door opens and three

Negro day attendants, WASHINGTON, WARREN and MILLER, dressed

in white uniforms, enter and move down the hallway and

disappear into a side room.

Bromden continues his silent journey towards the day room as

Turkle emerges from the side door to the nurses' lounge, goes

up the hallway as MISS PILBOW, the day nurse, comes in,

passing Turkle on the way out. She crosses to the nurses'

station and enters as Bromden reaches the day room.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as Bromden makes his way across the day room, past the

nurses' station, unnoticed by Miss Pilbow who is busy

preparing the day's medication.

Bromden is sliding along the hallway wall, when he is

suddenly cut off by a mop which THUDS against one side of his

neck. A second mop yokes him on the other side. Bromden

freezes. Terrified.

They cackle, legs jiving, as the ammonia stings Bromden's

eyes and burns his nose. He tries to twist his head, but

Washington jams the mop harder. Bromden freezes, panic

spreading across his face.

A KEY is HEARD hitting the lock in the main door. Washington

very adroitly releases Bromden, hands him the mop, and turns,

along with Warren and Miller, to their duties, as BIG NURSE

enters the ward.

She sweeps by and disappears into the nurses' station. The

three attendants put their mops and rags aside and start

towards the men's dorm, leaving Bromden pressed against the

wall, mop in hand.

INT. NURSES' STATION

as Big Nurse enters to be greeted by Miss Pilbow, who wears

an enormous cross between her breasts.

INT. MEN'S DORM - DAY

as Washington, Warren and Miller roust the patients out of

bed.

The Chronics are physically helped out of bed as the Acutes,

who can handle themselves, cross out into the Day Room,

rubbing the sleep out of their eyes. Big Nurse steps out of

the Nurses' Station. Washington and Warren are hustling the

patients toward the washroom.

Miller stays behind, stripping Blastic's bed and rolling up

his mattress.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as the Acutes straggle past Big Nurse.

Bromden comes drifting by, going in the opposite direction.

Big Nurse takes his hand and reaches up and pats his face.

Washington comes running.

INT. WASHROOM - DAY

The patients are busy washing and shaving.

Warren is assisting a vegetable wash himself as Washington

guides Bromden through a cage-like partition... where an

antique barber chair stands.

He sits Bromden down and straps his bands and legs in, then

plugs the electric shaver in and turns it on and brings the

BUZZING instrument towards Bromden's face. Bromden turns

away.

Warren props the vegetable up against the sink.

Warren leaves; the old man starts sliding.

BROMDEN

as Warren enters and takes a firm grip on Bromden's head and

Washington goes to work on Bromden's face. CAMERA PUSHES INTO

EXTREME CLOSEUP of Bromden's fearfully distorted face as the

BUZZING SOUND of the electric razor INTENSIFIES until it is

INSUPPORTABLE.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

No sound as we SEE Big Nurse watch the last few patients file

past the side door to the Nurses' Station where Miss Pilbow

hands out little cups with pills. Washington stands by,

checking to see each man takes his pills before filling their

cups with orange juice.

The last patient takes his pills and returns to his place in

the Day Room. Miss Pilbow closes the window.

Satisfied that all is well, Big Nurse turns on an old 45

record player with a stack of records, then she settles down

to her work as a SOFT, NOSTALGIC NUMBER from the '40's is

HEARD OVER LOUDSPEAKER. CAMERA BEGINS SLOW PAN of the Day

Room.

The patients, under the influence of drugs, have settled down

for the day. HARDING is playing cards with MARTINI, CHESWICK

and BILLY. SEFELT and FREDRICKSON are putting a jigsaw puzzle

together in brotherly love. SORENSEN is off by himself,

rubbing his hands clean. TABER, pencil in hand, sits

pondering over a blank piece of paper. SCANLON paces back and

forth. On the Chronics' side of the room, RUCKLY is turning a

grimy photograph over in his hands. BANCINI sits wagging his

head, mumbling over and over, "Tired, awful tired..." ELLIS

stands against the wall, arms outstretched, hands nailed to

the wall by imaginary nails.

Bromden is pushing a mop around.

Washington, Warren and Miller are in the men's dorm making up

the Chronics' beds when O.S. the TELEPHONE RINGS.

INT. NURSES' STATION - DAY

as Miss Pilbow picks up the phone.

Miss Pilbow goes to the mirror, quickly preens herself, then

turns and flips the intercom on.

She exits.

INT. DAY ROOM

as Miss Pilbow exits nurses' station and heads down the

hallway, Washington and Warren on her heels. Miller looking

wistfully after them.

INT. MAIN ENTRANCE - STATE HOSPITAL - DAY

Staff personnel are SEEN moving in and out of the main

entrance where a state penitentiary car is parked. A DEPUTY

SHERIFF leans on the fender smoking a cigarette as SECOND

DEPUTY SHERIFF comes out of the building and motions down to

First Deputy, who crushes his cigarette out, then opens the

rear door to the car.

A long beat, then McMurphy slowly emerges from the car. He's

wearing handcuffs and dressed in faded jeans, flannel work

shirt, leather jacket, black motorcycle cap, and heavy black

boots. He's been scrubbed clean and has a Band-Aid on his

cheek. McMurphy does a couple of knee bends to get the kinks

out of his legs as Deputy reaches in the car and takes out a

small gym bag containing McMurphy's belongings.

McMurphy goes up the stairs, followed by the Deputy, and

crosses into the building.

INT. MAIN BUILDING - DAY

as McMurphy enters the building followed by the Deputies,

where Nurse Pilbow, McMurphy's folder in hand, and Washington

and Warren stand waiting -- all in a pleasant, receptive

mood. First Deputy hands McMurphy's gym bag to Washington,

who hands it to Warren.

McMurphy turns and holds out his hands. As cuffs are removed,

McMurphy impulsively takes hold of the Deputy's head and

plants a kiss on his forehead.

The two Deputies start down the stairs.

The two Deputies merely shrug their backs at McMurphy who

takes a deep breath of fresh air.

McMurphy follows Nurse Pilbow into the hallway as the door

closes behind them.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Other STAFF MEMBERS are administrative personnel are SEEN as

McMurphy walks alongside Nurse Pilbow, who is noticeably

nervous by his close proximity. Washington and Warren

casually bringing up the rear.

A young Japanese nurse, named ITSU, passes by.

Nurse Itsu laughs and disappears around the corner.

They arrive at the ward door. Nurse Pilbow unlocks the door

and opens it as...

Soft nostalgic MUSIC is HEARD OVER.

Nurse Pilbow enters the ward and McMurphy watches her cross

the visitors' area to a heavy-gauge steel screen wall, with

security gate which she opens.

McMurphy turns to see DOCTOR SPIVEY approaching.

The door closes. CAMERA HOLDS on sign that READS:

SMILE AT THE NEXT FACE YOU SEE. IT MAY SAVE HIS LIFE.

INT. WARD - DAY

as McMurphy, Spivey, Washington and Warren cross the

visitors' area towards Nurse Pilbow, who stands holding the

security gate open. At the far end of the hallway, which

opens into the day room, patients can be seen.

As they pass through the security gate:

Washington and Warren continue down the hallway, passing

SEFELT, who shyly approaches and waits at a respectful

distance.

They shake hands.

Spivey turns to Sefelt.

Spivey starts checking out Sefelt's mouth.

As McMurphy follows Nurse Pilbow down the hall, Spivey's

voice trails after him.

McMurphy and Nurse Pilbow reach the day room.

Nurse Pilbow enters the nurses' station, closing the door

behind her. Next to the door is a bulletin board which, among

other bits of information, READS:

TODAY IS MONDAY SEPTEMBER 30, 1963. THE NEXT MEAL IS LUNCH.

THE NEXT HOLIDAY IS HALLOWEEN.

Another notice READS:

SIGN UP NOW! BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT STAFF VS PATIENTS.

Washington, Warren, Miller

There are no other names listed. Sefelt passes by.

Sefelt crosses into the day room where he joins Fredrickson,

who is putting a jigsaw puzzle together.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as McMurphy drifts into the room and looks around. The room

is as it was. The MUSIC ENDS. There is a CLICK. McMurphy's

attention is drawn to the nurses' station.

McMURPHY'S POV OF NURSES' STATION

where Miss Pilbow is SEEN through a large plate glass window,

busy typing a nameplate for McMurphy.

Big Nurse, her back to McMurphy, is turning over a stack of

records. She presses the phonograph button. A record falls on

the turntable and MUSIC BEGINS as she turns and sees

McMurphy.

ANOTHER ANGLE

McMurphy smiles and tips his hat to Big Nurse.

Big Nurse smiles back and takes her seat.

McMurphy turns and drifts into the day room.

Big Nurse looks up and studies him.

McMurphy catches the eye of a PATIENT, sitting by himself.

Taber, pencil and paper in hand, crosses to McMurphy and taps

him on the shoulder.

Taber walks away.

Martini tugs at McMurphy's sleeve.

Scanlon moves in.

As McMurphy hands out his cigarettes Bromden drifts by, mop

in hand.

Martini is staring off into space.

Martini crosses back to the card game as Taber returns.

Taber walks away.

McMurphy watches him go.

Nearby, an OLD VEGETABLE squeaks.

The old man squeaks again.

McMurphy crosses to the card game and stands watching the

game.

Billy holds his hand close to his chest.

They shake hands.

A beat; then:

McMurphy picks up a chair and sits down right next to Harding

and looks at him. Another beat; then:

Harding, very nervous at McMurphy's proximity, turns back to

the game.

Martini is lost in the clouds.

Martini throws a diamond.

Martini throws a spade.

Harding gets up and crosses to the hallway, gathering his

pride as he goes.

McMurphy slides into Harding's seat and rakes all the cards

in.

McMurphy fans the deck out and lays it on the table.

Everyone's eyes pop as he scoops the cards up in one movement

-- he's a card shark, a magician -- leaving the Acutes with

their mouths hanging open.

McMurphy turns to see Big Nurse approaching, Washington

casually bringing up the rear.

McMurphy walks with her toward the men's dorm.

Big Nurse and McMurphy stop at the security gate to the men's

dorm where Miller opens the gate.

Greetings are exchanged as they pass through.

INT. MEN'S DORM - DAY

as Big Nurse and McMurphy cross down the aisle.

Big Nurse stops at an empty bed where Warren is turning the

mattress down.

McMurphy doesn't move.

They smile, sizing up each other.

They cross out of the men's dorm.

Big Nurse watches them go.

INT. DOCTOR SPIVEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Doctor Spivey is seated behind his desk, on which are several

glass-framed photos of Spivey's family, plus a nameplate:

JOHN M. SPIVEY, M.D., and McMurphy's papers.

McMurphy, freshly showered and wearing hospital-issue

clothes, sits facing him.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

CAMERA is on Big Nurse as she stands, in front of a chair,

doing a deep breathing exercise.

The patients and staff, standing in front of chairs arranged

in a circle, follow suit as best they can. After a couple of

exercises Big Nurse sits. The others do the same except

Bancini, who remains standing, wagging his head back and

forth.

Billy does... gently laying a hand on Bancini.

Billy gently eases Bancini into his chair and sits beside

him, patting his skinny knee.

Big Nurse waits. A long beat.

Harding sits, chewing his nails, tensely waiting, almost

wanting someone to begin.

The patients shift uncomfortably, looking in all directions.

McMurphy looks around to see what will follow, when he sees

Ellis, nailed to the wall; his pants leg darkens and a puddle

of piss forms at his feet. McMurphy looks to see if Big Nurse

or the Aides have noticed.

If they have, no one pays any attention.

McMurphy fidgets in his seat, then gets up, crosses to Ellis,

unhooks him from the wall, and moves him over a few feet.

The other patients are aghast at this move, look at each

other quizzically.

Big Nurse merely watches.

McMurphy crosses back to his chair and sits.

Sefelt shrugs and sinks into his seat.

Fredrickson passes.

Taber passes.

Scanlon looks at the floor.

Cheswick wags his head 'no.'

One of the Chronics laughs like a child.

Several Acutes chime in, "Yeah, get to the point," AD LIB.

Several hands go up.

Sefelt and Fredrickson snicker into their hands. A few of the

others laugh.

Everyone hushes.

Two or three Acutes get up and try to soothe Bancini, but he

isn't to be hushed.

Big Nurse nods to Washington, who goes to Pete, and gives his

arm a jerk toward the door. Bancini is unmovable.

Big Nurse signals Nurse Pilbow, who heads for the nurses'

station.

Washington senses danger, lets go of Pete's arm, backs away.

Nurse Pilbow returns, hypodermic needle in hand.

Pete turns to his fellow inmates.

She gets him in the ass, with the needle, and springs back.

McMurphy looks around at the others.

Each patient is locked in his own world -- oblivious to

Bancini's state.

EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY

WIDE SHOT of entire court, surrounded by a high fence topped

off with barbed wire, as Washington and Warren escort the

Acutes -- including Bromden, Ellis, a lobotomy case and

several other Chronics -- through the gate onto the court,

which is run down, with cracks in its surface and leaves

scattered everywhere.

Martini, who is carrying the ball, runs ahead, followed by

Scanlon, where he starts dribbling the ball in a frantic

circle, suddenly passes the ball to nothing.

The ball rolls to the corner.

Martini turns away, his feelings hurt. Washington goes after

the ball, when Martini goes running after it.

But Washington gives Martini a body check and beats him to

the ball.

Martini tries to get the ball from Washington, who is quite

agile and teases him as he returns to the court where he and

Warren start shooting baskets, freezing Martini and Scanlon

out.

The other patients just hang around or walk, as if in a

prison yard.

Cheswick stands in close proximity to McMurphy and Harding,

who stand watching the action. McMurphy finally offers a

cigarette to Harding, who accepts. They both light up.

The other Acutes have gathered around McMurphy and Harding.

McMurphy grabs Harding by his balls and Harding goes up on

his toes.

Harding is doubled over.

McMurphy looks.

SHOT OF A LOBOTOMY CASE

A vegetable, complete with two half-dollar scars in his

forehead.

McMURPHY

As he absorbs this bit of information the basketball rolls to

his feet and he picks it up.

Martini and Scanlon rush over and try to get the ball.

McMurphy crosses to the court, bouncing the ball as he goes.

When he reaches the court he holds the ball out to

Washington, who reaches for it, but McMurphy snaps it back

over his shoulder to Martini.

Martini holds back.

Martini passes to McMurphy.

He passes it back to Martini, who laughs and passes it back

to McMurphy, who passes it to Scanlon, who passes to

McMurphy, who passes to Billy, etc. Bromden just stands

watching.

McMurphy looks to see Big Nurse looking out a window at them.

He catches her eye. She turns away.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

The MUSIC is PLAYING. The TV is on the six o'clock news as

McMurphy, cards in hand, is dealing blackjack to Cheswick,

Harding, Sefelt, Billy and Martini. Fredrickson and Scanlon

are looking on as Bromden eases up to the game. Cheswick is

at the nurses' station talking to Big Nurse.

McMurphy rakes in Sefelt's cigarettes, adding them to a pile

of loose cigarettes, packs of cigarettes, several cartons of

cigarettes.

As Cheswick sits down, depressed:

Martini breaks a cigarette in half.

McMurphy counts out twenty cigarettes, marks it down on a

piece of paper, and passes the cigarettes to Cheswick, who

bets all twenty.

The Sports have come on TV and McMurphy's attention is

divided.

He deals the cards out, the first one face down, then the

next one face up.

Taber calls back something but it's lost in the other sounds.

McMurphy slams his cards down, stands up, crosses the day

room, heading for the nurses' station. He passes Washington,

who stands there waiting to dispense orange juice.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as McMurphy enters. Nurse Pilbow is the only one there.

Nurse Pilbow grabs at her cross, screams and shuts her eyes,

holding the cross in front of her.

Big Nurse enters from the nurses' lounge.

McMurphy steps out of the station, closing the door behind

him.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as McMurphy goes around to the front of the nurses' station

and queues up behind the other Acutes who are getting their

medication. McMurphy reaches the window, takes the cup, but

doesn't take his pills.

McMurphy leans in, placing his hand on the window.

McMurphy jerks his hand away.

McMurphy breathes on the glass and wipes it clean with his

sleeve.

McMurphy turns to walk away.

McMurphy makes a big show of popping the pill in his mouth,

holding his paper cup upside down, for all to see, then

moving on to Washington, who fills it with orange juice.

McMurphy gulps it down, not without some difficulty, then he

smiles at all the concerned faces and crosses the room to the

card table, where he sits to see the Acutes looking at him.

McMurphy holds the pill up and flicks it into Harding's

forehead.

The men look at Big Nurse.

The patients look at the nurses' station.

PATIENTS' POV

Big Nurse is busy at her work.

INT. NURSES STATION - BIG NURSE'S POV - NIGHT

The patients looking at her. They turn back to their card

game.

REVERSE ANGLE

CAMERA HOLDS on Big Nurse as McMurphy's VOICE is HEARD over

INTERCOM.

Big Nurse looks up and studies the men gathered round the

table.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

The patients are asleep except for Bromden, who stands by the

window looking out.

McMurphy is asleep in the bed next to his. A beat when

TURKLE, a fifty-year-old Negro night attendant, slightly

drunk, lays a gentle hand on Bromden's shoulder.

Bromden allows himself to be led back to bed. Turkle fumbles

around for the security belt, finds it, straps Bromden

loosely in bed, then goes off clucking to himself.

Bromden reaches under his bed and plucks a stale piece of gum

from under the bed frame. He starts chewing it when he sees

McMurphy looking at him.

Bromden goes right on chewing and looking McMurphy right in

the eye.

McMurphy holds the last note, reaches over and rustles

through his nightstand.

A small object lands on Bromden's bed. It is a fresh package

of gum. Bromden picks it up. Examines it. Unwraps it.

Deposits his old piece of gum under the bed frame, then

inserts the fresh gum in his mouth and starts chewing.

SERIES OF SHOTS

SHOWING the MEN'S DORM, the empty DAY ROOM, TURKLE ASLEEP in

the NURSES' STATION, EMPTY HALLWAYS, the NIGHT SUPERINTENDENT

AT HER DESK, MORE HALLWAYS... ENDING ON:

INT. MEN'S DORM - SUNRISE

ABERRATED SHOT of INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS SEEN THROUGH STEEL

MESH SCREEN -- as the sun rises above the treetops.

REVERSE SHOT - BROMDEN

looking out of the window. His face washed by the sunlight.

His eyes have a vague look, almost vacuous, as...

INT. MEN'S DORM - DAY

as Washington, Warren and Miller roust the patients out of

bed.

McMurphy is in bed, not ready for the world, when Washington

crosses to Bromden, who is looking out the window, and leads

him off.

Washington goes off with Bromden.

CAMERA HOLDS on McMurphy as he slowly pulls it together and

sits on the edge of the bed. He's naked as he opens the

drawer to his nightstand and fishes around for a cigarette.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as the Acutes straggle past Big Nurse.

She sees McMurphy approaching, wearing a towel around his

waist and a scowl on his face.

Bromden comes drifting by, going in the opposite direction.

Big Nurse takes his hand.

Washington comes running.

Washington leads Bromden off. Big Nurse turns to Cheswick and

several other Acutes, who have crowded around.

WIDER ANGLE

A beat, as the Acutes wait for McMurphy's next move, then:

McMurphy turns and crosses toward the washroom, singing at

the top of his lungs.

BIG NURSE

watching McMurphy who removes his towel as he enters the

washroom.

INT. WASHROOM - DAY

as McMurphy enters to see Warren take a firm grip on

Bromaen's head and Washington goes to work on Bromden's face.

CAMERA PUSHES INTO EXTREME CLOSEUP of Bromden's fearfully

distorted face as the BUZZING SOUND of the ELECTRIC RAZOR

INTENSIFIES until it is INSUPPORTABLE.

INT. MESS HALL - DAY

We SEE the attendants spooning food into the sucking pink

mouths of the vegetables, a shade too fast for swallowing.

We SEE McMurphy seated with the Acutes, shoveling food down

his guillet. The others are barely touching their food.

He gets up and carries his tray to the proper place, where he

notices Miller loading several other trays onto a dumbwaiter.

Miller pushes a button and the dumbwaiter goes down. McMurphy

crosses to the door to find it blocked by Washington.

McMurphy turns Washington over in his mind, then he looks up

at the clock above the door.

The time is 7:28. The second hand sweeping its way toward

7:29.

McMurphy turns and walks away.

Washington watches him go.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

A group meeting is in progress. Doctor Spivey is there.

Cheswick is on his feet.

Cheswick sits -- stunned. A beat; then:

Cheswick sulks in his seat.

McMurphy's hand goes up. No one else's does.

McMurphy takes a folded sheet of paper out of his pocket,

unfolds it, studies it and begins.

Doctor Spivey nods with approval.

Big Nurse doesn't.

The Acutes are bewildered.

Nods and murmurs of approval from the Acutes.

Big Nurse can only wait for McMurphy's next move.

Several other Acutes voice in the affirmative.

Big Nurse casts a watchful eye over the patients.

Only Cheswick's goes up.

Martini and Scanlon's hands go up.

Several Acutes look at them.

Scanlon and Martini's hands go down.

McMurphy can't believe his eyes.

McMurphy's hand goes down.

McMurphy starts tearing his sheet of paper up into a thousand

pieces.

She looks around.

McMurphy is slouched in his chair.

Harding puts his hands up. No one else does.

Harding, breaks off, sweating; he begins to knead his

forehead and chew his nails.

ANGLE

Silence as the CAMERA REFLECTS: the room, the patients, the

staff, the hallways, the hospital, the grounds, the trees,

the sky, ending on.

INT. TUB ROOM - NIGHT

Bromden is pressed against the wall, watching McMurphy,

Martini, Scanlon and Cheswick play a game of monopoly. The

others are playing cards or just hanging around, a little

chagrined. Billy is most disturbed by this separation.

There's a flurry of money from Martini, red, green and yellow

bills blowing in every direction.

Cheswick rolls the dice.

Cheswick starts counting out the money.

Martini picks up a house...

Scanlon grabs Martini's hand and tries to get his piece back.

Martini won't let go.

McMurphy slams his fist down on the table, sending the

monopoly pieces flying. Martini is crestfallen.

McMurphy sits and resumes his game of solitaire. Martini and

Scanlon are putting the monopoly game back together again.

Bromden spots (or he thinks he spots) one of the attendants

listening at the door. He wants to warn the others, but

doesn't know how.

Sefelt and Frederickson smile at each other.

Bromden slides along the wall toward the door.

Fredrickson and Sefelt snicker in their hands.

Bromden reaches the door and looks out. No one is there.

Bromden turns back to the room to see McMurphy slam his fist

down on the table; the monopoly game goes flying.

He looks wildly around the room, spots the machine, crosses

to it and smacks it with his hand.

The Acutes stand aside and McMurphy steps up to the machine.

He shifts his feet to get a good stance, wipes his hands on

his thighs, leans down and gets hold of the levers on each

side, and strains.

Bromden watches, in awe of McMurphy.

McMurphy turns loose, straightens up and shifts his feet for

a better position.

He grabs the levers again. His whole body shakes with the

strain. For just a second we HEAR the cement GRIND. Then his

breath explodes and he falls back limp against the wall.

There's blood on his hands. No sound but his rasping breath.

He opens his eyes and looks around. Then pulls out a

pocketful of IOU's and tries to sort them out, but his hands

are frozen into red claws. He throws the whole bundle on the

floor and walks out. At the door, he turns back.

McMurphy exits.

REACTION SHOT OF ACUTES

SHOT OF BROMDEN

looking at the machine. A long beat.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

The patients are getting ready for bed when Billy approaches

McMurpby, who is in bed.

McMurphy turns away from Billy, who crosses to the other side

of the bed.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Washington, Warren and Miller are at the end of the hallway,

listening to a small RADIO. We can HEAR the SPORTS ANNOUNCER

giving the line-up for the opening game of the World Series.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

A Group Meeting is in progress and Big Nurse is honed in on

Billy.

Billy tries, but can't talk.

The other Acutes are bored, restive, waiting.

McMurphy has ants in his pants as Big Nurse speaks to Billy.

Billy laughs at himself.

No response from Billy.

The first hand to come up is Cheswick's. Then McMurphy's.

Then Martini, Scanlon, Sefelt, Fredrickson, Billy and Taber.

Harding doesn't vote.

Big Nurse starts counting the hands.

McMurphy, his face beaming, counts the hands.

A beat.

McMurphy rises and, taking his chair, he crosses toward the

television set.

McMurphy turns the TV on, flips the channel, then sits and

waits for a picture.

A picture swirls onto the TV screen. The ballgame is in

progress (documentary footage to be used).

Martini rushes over and joins McMurphy. Scanlon follows hot

on his heels as --

Cheswick gets up and starts across when --

Cheswick stops and stands there, helpless to move.

McMurphy is deep into the game.

INSERT - TV SCREEN

On the screen a great play is taking place, and at the

breathtaking moment the TV picture swirls into a little eye

of light -- then nothing.

BACK TO SCENE

The Acutes are left with their mouths hanging open.

McMurphy continues looking at the blank TV screen as the

Acutes look from McMurphy to Big Nurse, not knowing what to

do next when --

The Acutes are stunned at McMurphy's outburst.

Sefelt, Fredrickson, Billy and Taber get up and cross toward

the TV. Harding is the only one who doesn't join them.

The other Acutes pick up on McMurphy and start shouting at

the blank TV screen.

The Acutes are shouting, cheering, stomping and dancing in

each other's arms.

Big Nurse's last words overload the intercom and the system

peaks out. Big Nurse's mouth continues to work in frantic

circles as Washington, Miller and Warren rush to quell the

uproar.

INT. SPIVEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Doctor Spivey is seated behind his desk, looking over

McMurphy's papers.

McMurphy sits facing him.

This is the kiss of death to McMurphy.

REACTION SHOT of McMurphy.

EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY

Washington and Warren are sitting on the grass watching

Martini, Scanlon, Harding and Billy, who are positioned on

the court waiting on McMurphy who is under the board with

Bromden.

Cheswick and the other patients hang around off court as:

McMurphy raises his hands above his head. Bromden follows

suit.

McMurphy jumps. Bromden doesn't. McMurphy does this a couple

of times. Each time Bromden remains motionless.

McMurphy jumps. Bromden doesn't move.

Bromden jumps.

Cheswick runs over.

McMurphy climbs on his shoulders.

Bromden doesn't hear.

Cheswick goes after Bromden, catches him, and McMurphy

latches onto him.

Cheswick, straining under the weight of McMurphy, turns

toward the basket.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

as Bromden, chewing his gum, watches McMurphy ease his way

out of bed and silently cross down the aisle, past the sleep

patients, toward the day room.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as McMurphy crosses the day room, past the nurses' station

where Turkle is asleep.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as McMurphy crosses down the hallway and stops at the mess

hall door. He tries the handle. The door is locked. McMurphy

looks up at the open transom, ponders it, then jumps up and

grabs the door lintel. He tries to lift himself up, but can't

make it when suddenly he is lifted up to the level of the

transom by Bromden.

McMurphy worms his way through the transom and disappears

down the other side.

CAMERA HOLDS on Bromden who waits. A long beat. There is a

strange HUMMING SOUND HEARD O.S. Another beat, then the door

opens.

McMurphy smiles at Bromden.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

McMurphy is nudging Cheswick awake.

McMurphy turns and crosses to Billy.

McMurphy turns from the bewildered Billy and crosses to

Martini.

McMurphy turns to Scanlon.

McMurphy crosses to Fredrickson and wakes him.

The other patients are sitting up, some of them getting out

of bed as McMurphy turns to Sefelt who is snoring. McMurphy

pinches his nose and Sefelt wakes up.

McMurphy crosses to Taber.

McMurphy turns and crosses to Harding.

Harding opens his eyes and looks at McMurphy.

Harding turns his back to McMurphy.

McMurphy starts down the aisle. The others follow.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as McMurphy and the other patients cross the day room, past

the nurses' station, where Turkle shifts in his sleep.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as McMurphy and the patients cross down the hallway and enter

the mess hall followed by Bromden.

INT. MESS HALL - NIGHT

Cheswick, Bromden, Martini, Scanlon, Sefelt, Fredrickson,

Billy, Taber and McMurphy, stand looking at the dumbwaiter.

Several of the others chime in.

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT

The patients are waiting in the tunnel, which is used as an

underground connecting system to the institutional buildings,

as McMurphy gets out of the dumbwaiter.

Far down the tunnel Martini and Scanlon are briefly SEEN as

they skitter across the tunnel.

McMurphy starts down the tunnel. The others don't move.

The Acutes follow McMurphy. They run down to the intersection

and turn the corner.

No sign of Martini or Scanlon.

Somewhere a DOOR is HEARD SLAMMING CLOSED and FOOTSTEPS are

HEARD coming their way.

McMurphy hustles the men round the corner as two aides

pushing a gurney come wheeling by.

The band takes off down tbe tunnel, calling out in loud

whispers, "Martini! Scanlon! Psst! Where are you?"

Down one tunnel and up another -- till they turn a corner and

see an open door.

They go to the door and peer out. Steps lead up to the

outside world.

Several Acutes express the same desire.

McMurphy crosses out and up the stairs.

The Acutes look at each other. A beat, then:

The Acutes don't move.

The Acutes inch their way out the door and up the steps.

EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - NIGHT

as the Acutes join McMurphy to see the moon low in the sky,

silhouetting the trees and buildings, and Martini chasing

Scanlon across the wet grounds.

The Acutes cast frightened looks at each other then go after

McMurphy. Martini and Scanlon join them.

McMurphy has reached the bus and begins checking it out.

McMurphy lifts the hood to the bus and begins jumping the

wire. The Acutes stand helplessly by as the engine turns over

and catches. McMurphy closes the hood and gets on the bus to

a chorus of, "Please, Mac, take us back... Please..."

McMurphy puts the bus in gear and the bus starts moving. The

Acutes start running alongside of the bus calling out for

McMurphy to take them back.

They leap on.

EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT

As the bus makes a full circle and stops alongside of

Bromden.

Bromden boards the bus. McMurphy lets out a war whoop as he

closes the door and starts the bus moving.

EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - NIGHT

as the bus picks up speed and churns across the grounds.

INT. BUS - NIGHT

the Acutes look out with wild-eyed excitement.

EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - NIGHT

as the bus careens out the main entrance and down the

thoroughfare.

INT. BUS - NIGHT

as the Acutes cast worried looks at each other.

EXT. HIGHWAY

as the bus turns a corner past a sign that reads:

DALLES 6, SALMON CREEK 8, DEPOE BAY 11, CAPE LOOKOUT 22,

PORTLAND 46

INT. BUS - NIGHT

McMurphy is singing at the top of his lungs.

EXT. DEPOE BAY - DAWN

The dawn is just cracking the horizon as the bus pulls up

behind a corroded tin sheet building. A sign reads:

DEPOE BAY, SEAMANIS SERVICE, SPORT FISHING, BOATS FOR CHARTER

Beyond the boathouse is the dock with several fishing

trawlers and beyond that -- the open sea.

The door to the bus opens and McMurphy gets out.

as McMurphy walks directly to the wall, alongside the door,

lifts the edge of the siding, comes up with a key, opens the

door and enters.

A beat, then the lights go on inside the building.

SHOT OF BUS

The Acutes' faces pressed against the windows, looking out.

INT. SEAMAN'S BUILDING - DAWN

as McMurphy lifts a cold bottle of beer out of a Coca-Cola

cooler, opens it, takes a long pull on the bottle, then

crosses to the heater and turns it on.

Nearby, a sign reads: ALL EQUIPMENT CAN BE RENTED

On the walls are old photographs of people with their prize

catches. Fishing equipment, tackle and wet weather gear crowd

the room.

There is a counter which McMurphy walks behind and takes a

bag of potato chips off a wall rack, full of beer nuts,

hostess cupcakes, etc.

McMurphy eyes the keyboard to the fishing boats. Several keys

are there.

INSERT - KEYBOARD

with the names of the fishing boats: The Lark. Mary Ann.

Noel. Annabella. The Capri.

INT. BUILDING DEPOE BAY - DAWN

McMurphy studying the board as the Acutes stick their heads

in the door. They're all miserable and cold.

They hesitate.

The Acutes come in, Bromden bringing up the rear.

Martini goes for the candy. Scanlon goes for the Coke. Sefelt

and Fredrickson go for the wet weather gear and boots. The

others go to the heater. Bromden stands in the middle of the

room.

Billy goes to Bromden's aid as McMurphy crosses to a window

and looks out.

McMurphy turns and looks out the window. A long beat.

The Acutes cross to the window and look out, saying, "What?

What is it? Whadaya lookin' at? I don't see a thing."

ACUTES' POV

Nestled against the dock is a trim fishing trawler,

beautifully framed in the bay window.

CAMERA HOLDS on FULL SHOT of the boat.

BACK TO SCENE

A long beat, then we SEE the Acutes, wearing wet weather

gear, complete with boots and squall hats, each man carrying

soda pop, food, fishing equipment, etc., being led onto the

boat by McMurphy who carries a case of beer.

EXT. FISHING BOAT - DAWN

as a white gorge of smoke and water pours from the stern and

the boat pulls away from the dock, leaving a boiling foam of

water.

INT. SHIP'S BRIDGE - DAWN

The entire crew is jammed into the bridge, McMurphy behind

the wheel.

McMURPHY'S POV

as the dock and other fishing boats slip by.

EXT. HARBOR JETTY - DAWN

as the boat passes out of the harbor and heads for the open

sea.

EXT. BOAT DECK - DAY

The sun is up. The engine is dead. The ballgame is HEARD OVER

ship's RADIO. The men are scattered over the boat. Taber and

McMurphy, beer in hand, are sunning themselves, listening to

the ballgame. On the stern Martini and Scanlon are trying to

rig up a pole. Fredrickson gives them a hand. Billy has a

line out. So does Bromden and Sefelt who is seated nearby,

fishing the ocean floor when he suddenly gets a bite and

looks over the side, surprised. His line goes straight down

into the depths. His glasses fall off into the water. Sefelt

sighs and slowly begins reeling his line in.

Billy gets a strike and starts fighting the fish.

Martini gets a strike and loses it. Scanlon comes up and

starts to take the pole from him.

They start a tug of war. Fredrickson tries to break it up,

when he gets a strike and his line spins out.

Billy's fish breaks into the sun in a shower of silver

scales, and he gets so excited he lets the end of the pole go

down and the line snaps.

Fredrickson lands his salmon in a spray of scales and blood.

The fish is flopping all over the deck. Billy grabs the fish

and wrestles it down.

Bromden lands a fish when --

Everyone rushes over to Sefelt and looks down into the water.

REVERSE SHOT

Deep down in the water a gigantic white form slowly rises out

of the depths, becoming solid, alive.

The fish is now clearly SEEN.

McMurphy pulls himself up.

McMurphy crosses down and looks over the side.

McMurphy turns to Sefelt who is sweating under the strain.

SEFELT'S POV

The massive fish is closer to the surface.

BACK TO SCENE

All the men are standing by as gaffing hooks and rope are

made ready. The fish is gaffed and slowly hauled out of the

water.

McMurphy and Bromden lean over, held by the others, grab the

big fish by its gills and, with a heave-ho, the fish is slid

in and flopped to the bottom of the boat. The men go

sprawling over the big fish. There's a lot of laughter,

handshakes and back-slapping going on when --

The men look up.

REVERSE SHOT - ACUTES' POV

Off the bow is a Coast Guard cutter, and on the deck stands

Doctor Spivey, Washington, Warren and several other aides

dressed in white.

INT. HALLWAY - STATE HOSPITAL - LATE AFTERNOON

as the Acutes, sunburned and covered with dried brine and

fish scales, are escorted down the hallway by Washington,

Warren and Doctor Spivey.

It's a triumphant procession as they wheel the giant flounder

with a sheet over it on a gurney, holding up their catches

for all to see.

McMurphy is lagging a bit behind as they pass the mess hall

where workmen are busy installing a security screen over the

transom, while inside the mess hall another workman is SEEN

welding a lock on the dumbwaiter.

INT. DAY ROOM

as Big Nurse steps out of the Nurses' Station.

A burst of exuberance as the inmates hold up their fish.

Sefelt whips the sheet off the big fish.

No one can find superlatives or gestures big enough to

describe his catching of the big fish, "brought it in

himself" AD LIB.

Big Nurse turns to the others, leaving McMurphy dangling.

AD LIBS: "They could use it." "Take a picture first."

The men toss their fish on the gurney as Martini joins the

group and starts hitting the others up for a cigarette. All

he gets for his troubles are a series of "No," "Get lost," "I

don't have any."

The inmates start AD LIBBING and laughing, "We're not

hungry," as Martini sees Harding light up a cigarette and

crosses to him.

Martini snaps the cigarette out of Harding's hand, and takes

off with Harding chasing him.

Martini dashes around the room, pulling chairs in Harding's

way, taking a drag on the cigarette whenever he can.

Harding corners Martini, but Martini tosses the cigarette

over Harding's head to Scanlon.

Scanlon takes off with Harding after him, absolutely livid.

Scanlon passes to Billy who passes to Martini. Everyone in

the room is getting wired.

Martini throws it away as Harding jumps him and nails him to

the floor.

Harding starts pounding Martini's head on the floor when

Billy and Scanlon jump Harding and start pounding him.

Fredrickson picks up the cigarette and stands there watching

the fight as he smokes the cigarette as Washington, Warren

and Miller move in and start separating the men.

McMurphy, watching the fight, sighs, then deliberately

crosses toward the Nurses' Station.

INT. NURSES' STATION - MISS PILBOW'S POV - DAY

as McMurphy reaches the Nurses' Station and puts his hand

through the plate glass window, his fist stopping inches from

Miss Pilbow's startled face. Miss Pilbow's scream is added to

the SOUND OF THE SHATTERED WINDOW.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

McMurphy reaches in and picks up his carton of cigarettes.

McMurphy turns and crosses back to the day room, opening the

carton of cigarettes as he goes.

McMurphy starts tossing packages of cigarettes into the mass

of struggling bodies as Washington grabs McMurphy by the arm

and tries to wheel him away.

McMurphy shakes him off and throws a pack of cigarettes in

Washington's face.

Washington goes after McMurphy, grabs him, and drives him

against the wall, right next to Bromden, who watches as

McMurphy shoves Washington away, goes into a crouch and

starts circling Washington. Washington dances in and out,

chipping away at McMurphy's face until McMurphy drives his

fist square into Washington's white, starched chest, drawing

him against the wall.

McMurphy moves in for the kill.

The Acutes have stopped fighting and are watching.

McMurphy tags Washington, then is grabbed from behind by

Warren, who pulls him back.

Washington moves in and goes to work on McMurphy, when

Bromden grabs Washington, from behind, in a bear hug.

Miller jumps on Bromden's back. Bromden, still holding

Washington, backs up into the wall, squashing Miller, who

screams out.

EXT. HALLWAY TO DISTURBANCE WARD - LATE AFTERNOON

as McMurphy, bruised from the fight, and Bromden, handcuffed

to a special belt, wait while an aide unlocks the first of a

double set of heavy security doors.

The first door is locked, leaving McMurphy, Bromden, and the

three aides crammed in the small space between the two doors

while another aide opens the second door and McMurphy and

Bromden step through, followed by the aides.

INT. DISTURBANCE WARD - LATE AFTERNOON

As the aide locks the door behind them, the other aides lead

Bromden and McMurphy toward a bench, where they unshackle

them.

The three aides go down the hall, leaving McMurphy and

Bromden who sit and look at their new surroundings. There is

a man sitting next to them.

McMURPHY'S POV

The architecture is the same as the ward we left below, but

it is the atmosphere that is different. A heaviness pervades

all. Heavily sedated patients sit isolated from each other.

Others stand shifting from one foot to the other, while

others walk up and down the hallway, their locomotive powers

not unlike that of Parkinson's Disease (caused by too much

sedation).

Suddenly, one patient gets up, speaking very angrily,

shouting incoherently at no one; he crosses the hall and

enters a side room. An aide goes in after him. A long beat,

then the aide comes out with the patient and gently leads him

back to his seat, talking softly to the man.

Further down the hallway, a gurney is wheeled out of the east

room with a patient lying on it, out cold; he is wheeled

further down the hall to the men's dorms, where he is left to

sleep it off.

Two aides come out of the EST room and head in McMurphy's

direction, where one of the aides motions to the patient

sitting next to McMurpby.

The patient clings to the bench, terrified, weeping.

The aides peel him off the bench and escort him down the hall

to the EST room.

ANOTHER ANGLE

As McMurphy watches the patient go, he takes out a package of

gum. Takes a stick for himself and gives Bromden one.

McMurphy turns back to his own thoughts.

McMurphy looks up. A long beat.

Another beat.

Bromden nods.

McMurphy turns to see Nurse Itsu. The two aides are standing

behind her.

McMurphy takes the pills and downs them. Bromden takes his

pills.

McMurphy takes off his shoes.

McMurphy, flanked by the two aides, follows Nurse Itsu to the

EST room.

Itsu smiles at McMurphy.

McMurphy gives Bromden one last wave and goes in.

Bromden watches the door close behind McMurphy.

INT. EST ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

There are four other aides in there, standing around an empty

gurney.

A DOCTOR is at the head of the gurney, a NURSE alongside of

him.

McMurphy looks around at the six aides.

The Nurse smiles at him.

McMurphy climbs on the bed and lies down.

The Doctor moves around to the side of the bed and takes

McMurphy's pulse, while the Nurse dips her fingers into a jar

of salve.

The Nurse starts applying salve to McMurphy's temples.

McMurphy takes the bit in his teeth. The Doctor moves back to

the head of the gurney and places the thongs on McMurphy's

temples.

The Doctor nods to the six aides, who move in and gently

place their hands, in a very professional manner, on

McMurphy's knees, hips and shoulders. Once set, the Doctor

turns to his controls.

SHOT OF McMURPHY

as he looks around, not nearly as scared as he is mystified

by the whole process, when suddenly, without warning,

McMurphy is hit by the shock. His face is a contorted mask of

surprise and pain. His whole body caught in a sudden spasm. A

moment of rigidity, then McMurphy passes out and his body

relaxes. Another moment, then a series of violent body spasms

begin flowing down his body. Now the aides' function is very

clear, as they press down, holding McMurphy firmly to the

gurney, until the last spasm subsides.

FADE IN:

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

A Group Meeting is in progress. Doctor Spivey is there.

At the end of the hall, the door opens and McMurphy and

Bromden enter the visitors' room, accompanied by Washington

and Warren. They cross to the security gate, open it and pass

into the hallway.

Washington and Warren disappear into a room, leaving McMurphy

and Bromden, who walk slowly towards the day room.

The Group Meeting continues over as Fredrickson raises his

hand.

He sits.

Everyone looks at McMurphy and Bromden.

Bromden is as he always was, as McMurphy slowly drags himself

into the day room. He looks like a zombie as he takes the

room in. Then, suddenly, he slaps his thigh.

He enters the room doing a jig. The Acutes' faces light up.

McMurphy does a full circle of the room, greeting the

Chronics. But it's an effort for him. His voice is slower,

his footwork slightly out of sync.

Spivey greets McMurphy.

A great sadness suddenly sweeps over McMurphy's face and he

breaks off.

No response from McMurphy.

McMurphy gets up and crosses to the window, where he joins

Bromden who is looking out the window.

REACTION SHOT of the others as they look at McMurphy and each

other with quizzical looks.

INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY

On the court both teams are lined up taking photographs for

the local newspaper. The bulb pops a few times.

The line breaks up. McMurphy crosses to Big Nurse, who sits

in the front row.

It's the big Saturday game between the Acutes and Aides, as

spectators enter the gymnasium already half-filled with male

and female patients, staff members and visitors.

Doctor Spivey stands nearby at the timers' table, basketball

in hand, whistle around his neck, talking to the timer.

O.S. the WHISTLE BLOWS.

McMurphy crosses onto the court. Big Nurse watches him go.

BASKETBALL COURT

Doctor Spivey is at half-court, basketball in hand as the

players take up their positions: Washington faces McMurphy

for the jump at center. Harding and Billy are playing guard

with Warren and Miller on them. Martini and Scanlon are in

the forward position, with the two white Aides covering them.

The other Acutes sit on the bench as substitutes.

Spivey checks the court, then blows the whistle as he tosses

the ball into the air.

Washington taps the ball to Warren, who passes to Miller, who

hands off to Washington, who goes up for a layup. Two points.

The Acutes haven't even moved from their spots. The

scoreboard reads: AIDES 2 PATIENTS 0.

The Acutes snap to and McMurphy passes the ball into Harding,

who fiercely dribbles down court, McMurphy running alongside

him.

Harding dribbles into the corner and finds himself bottled in

by two Aides.

The ball is snagged from Harding's hands by an Aide, who

passes it down court to another Aide, who turns and makes

another basket.

Scoreboard: AIDES 4 PATIENTS 0

McMurphy and Harding turn to see Martini, down court, passing

the ball into Billy.

Billy panics and hands the ball to Washington, who turns

around and makes another basket. Score: AIDES 6 PATIENTS 0.

McMurphy and Harding run down court, McMurphy taking the ball

away from Martini, who would like to bring it in.

Washington chuckles and trots on down court.

Harding takes the ball and passes it in to McMurphy, who

turns and dribbles down court exactly like Harding did.

McMurphy stops dead in his tracks and flings the ball at

Harding. The ball bounces off Harding's head and goes out of

bounds. The WHISTLE BLOWS. Harding spins a few times.

Harding turns to see the other team go by. They score another

basket. Score: AIDES 8 PATIENTS 0.

Billy takes the ball and passes into McMurphy, who turns to

see CANDY enter the gym, with her friend, ROSE.

McMurphy tosses the ball to Spivey, then crosses the court to

Candy and Rose, who have had a couple of drinks on the way

down.

Candy pokes her ass at McMurphy. He gives it a squeeze. O.S.

a WHISTLE BLOWS.

McMurphy leads the two ladies across the court.

The entire gymnasium is riveted on the three of them. As they

reach Big Nurse:

Greetings are exchanged.

The two ladies wedge themselves in next to Big Nurse. O.S.

the WHISTLE BLOWS.

McMurphy turns and crosses onto the court.

On the court, McMurphy throws the ball to Martini.

Martini throws the ball to McMurphy.

McMurphy throws the ball back to Martini.

Martini throws the ball into the stands.

The WHISTLE BLOWS O.S.

McMurphy turns to see the other team go by and score a

basket.

Billy passes the ball into MeMurphy.

McMurphy dribbles the ball down the sideline. Stops.

Goes into his routine of ball tricks: faking one way, then

the other, over his head, under his legs, finally ending on a

pass behind his back which goes straight into Washington's

hands. Washington dribbles down court for an easy layup.

Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 0

McMurphy crosses to Bromden, takes his hand, and leads him

onto the court and under the Acutes' basket, where he

maneuvers him into the proper position. Then McMurphy raises

his hands above his head and Bromden follows suit.

McMurphy looks at Billy.

Billy goes off and sits by Big Nurse. Now, the lineup on the

bench is Billy, Big Nurse, Candy and Rose.

Spivey blows the whistle.

Under the Aides' basket, Harding passes the ball into

McMurphy, who dribbles to half court, takes his mark, and

lobs the ball over the outstretched arms of the Aides right

into Bromden's waiting hands. Bromden turns and slams the

ball into the basket.

The crowd goes bananas. Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 2

Bromden walks in majestic dignity the full length of the

court and takes up his position under the Aides' basket,

while McMurphy and his teammates have been putting tremendous

pressure on the Aides, not allowing them to pass the ball in.

As soon as McMurphy sees that Bromden is firmly set, hands

held up, under the Aides' basket, McMurphy turns and runs

down court, followed by the other Acutes, where they take up

their defensive position.

Washington and the Aides easily bring the ball down court,

work themselves into position, and take a shot at the basket,

which Bromden swats aside.

Each Aide gets a shot at the basket, and each time Bromden

swats it aside; sending the last swat into McMurphy's waiting

hands.

McMurphy dribbles the ball up court, where he runs into heavy

pressure from Washington.

McMurphy passes the ball to Harding and cuts toward the

basket.

Harding ignores McMurphy, as he runs by, and throws the ball

to Bromden, who turns and slams the ball into the basket.

The crowd goes bananas.

Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 4

CHEERS are HEARD O.S. Candy turns back to the game.

CAMERA HOLDS on Candy, Big Nurse and Billy, who is staring at

Candy.

Billy sinks back, thinks it over, then presses forward.

Candy looks at Billy.

Billy sinks back in his seat.

On the court, McMurphy dribbles down to half court where he

is stopped by Washington and Warren, who put the squeeze on

him. McMurphy turns and gives them his ass to contend with,

then manages to throw the ball under his legs and

Washington's legs. The ball rolls to Martini, who scoops it

up and throwing it wildly away, the ball ricochets off the

backboard and goes in for two points.

The crowd goes bananas. Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 6

Bromden starts striding down court when the Aides make a fast

break past him, but miss their shot.

McMurphy retrieves the ball as Bromden, not more than several

feet from his own basket, does an about-face and returns to

his basket where he turns to see McMurphy lob the ball full

court to Bromden, who catches the ball on one bounce, turns

and slams the ball in for another basket.

Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 8

The crowd goes bananas and Bromden turns and starts striding

down the court when he sees McMurphy at the far end of the

court yelling at him.

Bromden gets the idea and starts loping down court abreast of

Washington, who is making another fast break towards his own

basket.

Washington and Bromden go up together and Bromden swats the

ball to Scanlon.

Bromden starts running towards his own basket, Washington hot

on his heels, when the ball is passed to him and he goes up,

makes the point, but takes a bad spill, crashing head over

heels to the floor.

The crowd gasps. The WHISTLE BLOWS.

As McMurphy charges across court and grabs Washington by his

shirt...

Spivey comes running, blowing his whistle.

McMurphy pushes Washington away and turns to Bromden, who is

being helped off the floor by Harding, as...

They lead Bromden to the foul line.

Bromden takes the ball at the foul line. Sets himself up and

lobs the ball underhand. It goes in.

The crowd goes wild.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

The patients are asleep except for Bromden who sits on the

edge of his bed watching McMurphy, his face pressed against

the window, looking out.

The men slide into their beds and Turkle goes off, clucking

to himself.

A beat, then McMurphy rushes back to the window and looks

out.

McMURPHY'S POV

Outside, in the dark, Candy and Rose are seen wandering

around.

REVERSE ANGLE - BROMDEN AND McMURPHY

McMurphy tries to get the girl's attention and fails.

McMurphy takes off, towards the day room, followed by

Bromden.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

As the two of them cross into the day room heading for the

window, Turkle sticks his head out of the nurses' station.

McMURPHY'S POV

as we SEE the girls coming.

REVERSE ANGLE

Turkle comes out of the nurses' station, leaving the side

window open.

Turkle reaches the window and sees the girls outside.

CANDY and ROSE'S POV - THE MEN looking out.

BACK TO SCENE

as Turkle turns to McMurphy.

Turkle unlocks the security screen and raises the window.

McMurphy sticks his head out the window.

Candy passes a heavy bag of bottles in. Then McMurphy and

Turkle help her in. Her dress is above her thighs, her ass

visible as she swings over the windowsill and into McMurphy's

arms.

Turkle turns to help Rose in, but she's not as easy to

handle, being a good deal heavier and twice as plastered as

Candy.

McMurphy disengages himself from Candy and lends Turkle a

hand. Rose is finally hauled into the room.

The group shifts a few feet as Turkle closes the window and

locks the screen. McMurphy turns back to Candy.

Candy moves into McMurphy's arms as Rose, straightening her

dress, turns to see Bromden looming. Rose SCREAMS.

CANDY points to the patients sleeping in the men's dorm.

Rose turns to McMurphy who has opened a bottle of booze and

is taking a long pull.

McMURPHY'S POV - TURKLE AND ROSE

as the two of them cross out of the day room toward the

hallway, Turkle suddenly turns and hurries back to McMurphy,

takes the bottle of booze and hurries off clucking to

himself.

BACK TO McMURPHY and CANDY.

McMurphy crosses to package of booze, selects another bottle,

unscrews the top and takes a long pull, then hands the bottle

to Bromden.

Bromden takes a long pull on the bottle, gags and passes the

bottle to McMurphy who crosses to the nurses' station and

peeks around the corner.

McMURPHY

as he peeks around the corner.

McMURPHY'S POV - TURKLE AND ROSE

far down the hallway, as Turkle shows Rose one room, then

another, and then the seclusion room, into which Turkle

playfully lures Rose, who playfully resists, but finally

enters. A beat passes and they don't come out.

BACK TO McMURPHY

Satisfied, he crosses to the nurses' station, reaches in the

open side-door window, opens the door and enters.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as McMurphy enters the nurses' station and looks around.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

The patients are all asleep. A very long beat, then --

Ominous LAUGHTER, then the lights go flashing on and off.

Some of the patients immediately pop awake as Candy comes in

and starts hustling the patients out of bed.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

MUSIC OVER as the patients are queued up at the nurses'

station where Candy is handing out cups full of whiskey,

McMurphy backing her up, pouring the booze into the cups.

Harding takes his cup and moves back into the day room as

Ellis automatically downs the booze, gags and goes spinning

off across the hallway and is nailed to the wall.

DOWN THE HALL - TURKLE

sticks his head out the door to check the scene out. Sees

what's happening and comes rushing down the hallway, without

his shirt, and zipping up his pants.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as Turkle shoves his way to the intercom system and switches

off the lights and music.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Silence as the last man is driven out of the nurses' station.

Down the hallway, a light goes on in the visitors' room.

A KEY is HEARD hitting the lock at the end of the hallway.

Without losing a beat, Turkle reverses his movement and

starts pushing everybody back into the nurses' station.

As Turkle pushes the last man into the nurses' station, he

sees Rose stick her head out of the seclusion room.

Rose ducks back into the seclusion room as, simultaneously,

Turkle closes the door behind him to the nurses' station as

the door to the ward opens and the NIGHT SUPERVISOR, a middle

aged woman, enters the ward.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as Turkle, shushing the crowd, makes his way to the nurses'

lounge and opens the door.

The patients pile into the nurses' lounge, Turkle cramming

the last one through the door and closing it. He turns and

crosses to the side door and steps out.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as Turkle steps out of the nurses' station, closing the door

behind him.

Harding passes by and enters the latrine.

Down the hall, Rose sticks her head out the door, sees what's

happening, and ducks back in as the Night Supervisor turns on

her heel and starts back down the hallway, Turkle at her

heels.

She opens the gate, slams it behind her, crosses to the main

door, opers it and exits to:

Turkle turns and the smile leaves his face as he hurries down

the hallway.

O.S. the TOILET FLUSHES as Turkle stops at the seclusion room

and sticks his head in.

Turkle closes the door, crosses down to the nurses' station,

and enters as Harding comes out of the latrine.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as Turkle enters, crosses to the nurses' lounge and opens the

door to see the patients, silhouetted against the open

refrigerator light, moving around, pulling the room apart. It

smacks of Dante's Inferno as Turkle snaps on the light and

steps into the room.

INT. NURSES' LOUNGE - NIGHT

as Turkle steps into the room and sees the extent of the

plundering. The filing cabinet is open. So is the medicine

cabinet. Rolls of medical gauze are strewn around, cough

syrup and orange juice are flowing.

The patients start piling out of the room, carrying their

plunder.

Fredrickson and Sefelt are SEEN sitting on the floor, in

front of the open refrigerator, looking through their

dossiers.

Sefelt leans in, unintentionally tipping a bottle of cough

syrup in his hand which goes "glug, glug, glug..." all over

the papers.

Turkle stoically takes in the shattered remains of his job,

unscrews the top to his bottle of whiskey, and takes the

biggest swig of his life as, O.S., Rose is HEARD SCREAMING.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as Rose, naked as the day she was born, runs screaming down

the hall, Ellis loping after her, reaching out his hand.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as the others, who are laying out food, drinking booze and

stringing up hospital gauze, turn to see Rose enter the room.

She runs behind McMurphy, pressing her body to his, as he

gently takes hold of Ellis' outstretched hands.

He gently guides Ellis to the wall, with Rose still clinging

to his back.

He pins Ellis to the wall.

Rose reaches out and touches Ellis.

The others stand agog, looking at this Holy Trinity.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

A SOFT NOSTALGIC NUMBER is HEARD OVER LOUDSPEAKER as Harding,

Billy and Cheswick watch McMurphy dance with Candy,

Fredrickson with Sefelt and Rose, who is dressed, dance with

Taber.

Martini and Scanlon are busy draping hospital gauze around

the room.

Bromden sits by the window -- waiting.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

Another SOFT NOSTALGIC NUMBER is HEARD OVER LOUDSPEAKER as

McMurphy, Candy, Harding, Cheswick, Taber, Sefelt and

Fredrickson watch Rose, on a table, doing a solo bump-and

grind dance, while Martini and Scanlon race around the room

in wheelchairs.

Billy sits, watching Candy and McMurphy, who sit across the

room.

Candy is tired and bored.

McMurphy is drunk and starting to fade.

He gets up and crosses to his friends.

He turns to see Billy, who isn't having fun.

Billy turns away and McMurphy crosses to him.

Billy looks up at McMurphy, his eyes are flooded with tears.

A long beat as McMurphy looks at Billy, then Candy, then

Billy.

Billy doesn't move.

Billy slowly crosses toward Candy, stopping halfway to look

back at McMurphy, who gives him an affirmative gesture. He

crosses to Candy, who just looks at him.

Candy rises, kisses Billy on the cheek, and dances with him.

McMurphy beams on the twosome, unscrews his whiskey bottle,

takes a long pull on the juice, and looks at Bromden.

Bromden sits by the window waiting.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as the MUSIC ENDS. A long silence, then another NUMBER begins

as McMurphy, who has nodded off, starts awake and looks

around.

McMURPHY'S POV

Bromden sits by the window waiting.

Cheswick is asleep on the table.

Martini and Scanlon are sitting in their wheelchairs filling

their cups from through the enema tube.

Harding sits, maintaining his aloofness, smoking a cigarette.

Sefelt is sitting on the floor, in a drunken stupor, while

Fredrickson dances around him.

Candy and Billy stand, locked in each other's arms, swaying

to the MUSIC.

McMURPHY

struggles to his feet, steadies himself, crosses to the

nurses' station.

INT. NURSES' LOUNGE - NIGHT

as McMurphy enters and goes to Turkle, who is dead asleep.

McMurphy lifts Turkle's keys and leaves.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as McMurphy crosses to Billy and Candy, and gently parting

them, he puts his arms around them -- as much for support as

affection.

They move toward the hallway.

Bromden and Harding are the only two who watch them go.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as McMurphy passes several doors, reaches the door of his

choice, fumbles with the keys, finds the right one, and opens

the door to the seclusion room.

Candy and Billy, hand in hand, enter the small room, which

has a bed in it.

McMurphy closes the door, looks at the keys, and pockets

them. CAMERA TRACKS with McMurphy, who is a very weary man,

back into the day room.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

MUSIC OVER LOUDSPEAKER as McMurphy crashes heavily into his

chair. He can hardly keep his eyes open as he looks around.

Harding sits nearby.

Taber is lying on a couch, his head in Rose's lap.

Cheswick is asleep on the table.

Ellis stands nailed to the wall.

Bromden sits by the window -- waiting. CAMERA HOLDS on

Bromden.

CAMERA PUSHES INTO WINDOW. TIME LAPSE SHOT of the DAWN and

SUN RISING.

INT. DAY ROOM - EARLY MORNING

as Washington jostles McMurphy awake.

McMurphy allows himself to be led to the heavy security

partition, by the men's dorm, where all the patients are

lined up.

It is morning and the day room is a mess:

A few chairs turned over. Paper cups and empty bottles.

Puddles of cough syrup, orange juice and apple juice worked

into sticky masses.

Rose sits by herself on the couch.

Bromden is the last one led to the lineup, where Big Nurse

waits.

McMurphy shrugs "no."

Harding shrugs "no."

Big Nurse's question is cut off as all the patients and

attendants turn their heads toward the hallway and start

laughing. Big Nurse turns to see Turkle, without his shirt

on, walk into the seclusion room and close the door behind

him.

Big Nurse turns and starts down the hallway, the laughter

trailing after her when, suddenly, the laughter breaks off as

Big Nurse stops and in the silence, she opens the door.

INT. SECLUSION ROOM - EARLY MORNING

as Big Nurse opens the door to see Candy snuggled up to

Billy, who lies there, eyes closed, a smile on his face.

He slides out of the room as Billy opens his eyes. A long

beat as they look at each other.

Big Nurse shakes her head and exits, closing the door behind

her.

INT. HALLWAY - MORNING

as Big Nurse heads for the day room, walking straight for

McMurphy when:

Big Nurse stops and turns to see Billy, half naked, pulling

his pajama pants up as he runs, stumbling toward Big Nurse.

He trips on his pajamas and falls sprawling at Big Nurse's

feet, his bare ass exposed to all.

Billy pitches forward and collapses on the floor, screaming,

pounding his fists and feet against the floor.

Washington nods to Warren and the two of them scoop Billy off

the floor and carry him screaming to Doctor Spivey's office

as Big Nurse crosses into the nurses' station and picks up

the phone as Candy eases her way into the day room and joins

McMurphy.

A beat, then Miller starts herding the patients toward the

washroom, staying clear of McMurphy and Bromden, who don't

move.

McMurphy pulls the keys out of his pocket.

McMurphy checks the nurses' station, sees Big Nurse is busy

on the telephone.

McMurphy crosses to the window, followed by Bromden, Candy

and Rose, where he begins fumbling with the lock.

MILLER

as he herds the patients out of the day room. He turns to see

McMurphy trying to open the screen. Miller crosses to

McMurphy.

McMurphy turns around and punches Miller.

INT. NURSES' STATION - MORNING

as Big Nurse, still on the phone, sees Miller go sprawling

across the floor. She grabs the intercom.

INT. DAY ROOM - MORNING

McMurphy opens the screen, raises the window, and helps Candy

and Rose out as Washington and Warren converge on them.

McMurphy and Bromden wheel around.

Washington, Warren and Miller appear around the corner, take

one look, and head straight for McMurphy.

Washington's words are cut off as, O.S., Nurse Pilbow

SCREAMS... a bloodcurdling scream. They turn to see Nurse

Pilbow enter the nurses' station, her uniform splattered with

blood, hysterically talking to Big Nurse (we can't hear her).

Big Nurse and Nurse Pilbow rush out of the nurses' station

and head down the hallway.

McMurphy is glued to the spot.

McMurphy hesitates, then moves across the day room toward the

hallway.

INT. DOCTOR SPIVEY'S OFFICE - MORNING

CAMERA SHOOTING TOWARD the door, crammed full of patients,

who stare at the scene with curious detached looks, as Big

Nurse and Nurse Pilbow force their way through the patients.

The crowd parts and Big Nurse stops in the doorway, horrified

at what she sees. CAMERA HOLDS on Big Nurse's reaction. A

beat, then McMurphy appears alongside Big Nurse and is

stricken by what he sees.

McMURPHY AND BIG NURSE'S POV - REVERSE SHOT - DOCTOR SPIVEY'S

OFFICE

The office is splattered with blood. Billy is lying face up,

hanging over Spivey's desk, dead. His throat and both wrists

are cut. A broken picture frame, containing a photograph of

Spivey's family, lies nearby.

McMurphy crosses into the room and kneels alongside Billy's

body. He gently lays his hand on Billy's face.

McMurphy turns and leaps at Big Nurse, grabbing her throat;

he drives her into the Acutes and Nurse Pilbow.

INT. HALLWAY - MORNING

as McMurphy, Big Nurse, Nurse Pilbow and several Acutes go

down, arms and legs intertwined, kicking, trying to get away

as McMurphy strangles Big Nurse.

Nurse Pilbow screaming, as Washington, Warren, Miller rush

in, trying to break his hold on Big Nurse's throat, her face

turning blue. McMurphy's face, twisted by his passion, when

Washington lands a rabbit punch and MeMurphy's face relaxes

as he passes out.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

MUSIC OVER LOUDSPEAKER. The day room is as it was in the

beginning. Harding is dealing out a game of blackjack to

Martini,

Scanlon, Cheswick and Fredrickson.

Taber, pencil in band, sits pondering over a blank sheet of

paper.

Ruckly is turning a grimy photograph over in his hands.

Bancini sits wagging his head, mumbling over and over,

"Tired... awful tired..." Ellis stands against the wall, arms

outstretched.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Bromden is mopping the floor near the security gate to the

visitors' room, when a key hits the lock. Bromden looks up

expectantly.

BROMDEN'S POV

as Sefelt and Miller enter the visitors' room, cross to the

security gate and pass into the hallway. Bromden goes back to

his mopping.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as Sefelt jauntily enters the day room.

Sefelt turns to the nurses' station where, inside, Big Nurse

sits very erect, wearing a back brace that reaches up around

her neck. Sefelt shows his teeth and gums to Big Nurse.

She turns back to her work.

Sefelt crosses to the card game, where he sits and catches

Fredrickson's attention; showing him his teeth. Fredrickson

smiles at Sefelt and blows him a kiss.

Harding slams his card down on the table, rises and crosses

to the nurses' station where he taps on the side window.

Big Nurse gets up, crosses to the window and slides it open.

INT. HALLWAY - LATE AFTERNOON

Bromden is squatting, leaning against the wall near the

security gate to the visitors' room, when a KEY HITS THE

LOCK. He looks up expectantly. This time it is McMurphy. Or

what was McMurphy, for his head is bandaged, and his tongue

hangs out of his mouth as he is led across the visitors' room

by an ATTENDANT.

McMurphy shows Bromden no sign of recognition, which Bromden

pays no attention to, thinking McMurphy is putting on the

same act he did when he came back from Electro-Shock Therapy.

Bromden joyously turns and runs down the hallway to the day

room.

INT. DAY ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

as Bromden crosses into the day room, gets a seat, and sits

facing the hallway, bursting with expectation.

A long beat, then the Attendant appears with McMurphy and

taps at the side door to the nurses' station.

The Acutes break off their card game and look at McMurphy;

their faces hang open at his appearance.

Big Nurse crosses to the side door, opens it, and steps out

into the day room. To the Attendant as she takes McMurphy by

the arm:

The Attendant exits.

Big Nurse gently guides McMurphy to a seat on the Chronics'

side of the room.

Bromden can hardly contain himself as he waits for McMurphy

to go into his act.

The Acutes have already absorbed the reality of McMurphy's

condition as they exchange looks with each other.

The Acutes turn back to their card game as Harding shuffles

and deals the cards out.

Bromden keeps his eyes glued to Big Nurse and McMurphy.

Big Nurse pats McMurphy's face and crosses back to the

nurses' station.

McMurphy just sits there, his head lolling to one side.

Bromden waits for McMurphy to go into his routine.

McMurphy just sits there.

Bromden snaps his fingers and slaps his thigh, then waits for

McMurphy to follow suit.

McMurphy just sits there slobbering.

Bromden slaps his thigh again.

No response from McMurphy.

The MUSIC PLAYS ON.

INT. MEN'S DORM - DAYBREAK

as Bromden stands by the window looking out. A long beat,

then he turns into the room and looks around.

BROMDEN'S POV

The patients are all asleep. The new night attendant is fast

asleep in the nurses' station.

Bromden quietly takes his pillow and goes to McMurphy's bed,

where he kneels and puts his head very close to McMurphy's. A

long beat as Bromden studies McMurphy's face.

On the last word, Bromden places his pillow over McMurphy's

face and begins to suffocate him. McMurphy starts thrashing

and Bromden lies full length on McMurphy. A long beat, then

the thrashing ends. Bromden gets off McMurphy, replaces his

pillow, and crosses down the aisle toward the day room.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAYBREAK

The night attendant continues to sleep as Bromden passes the

nurses' station, heading for the tub room.

INT. TUB ROOM - DAWN

as Bromden crosses to the heavy machine which McMurphy had

once tried to lift, sizes it up, then bends over and takes

hold and heaves. The GRINDING WEIGHT is HEARD as Bromden

exerts all his strength, slowly lifts the machine off the

floor, balances it above his shoulders, then crosses out of

the tub room.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAWN

as Bromden comes around the corner and past the sleeping

night attendant in the nurses' station.

Bromden lines himself up with the window across the room,

then starts toward it, picking up speed as he goes. Then, at

the last moment, he stops and, with an enormous effort, he

hurls the machine through the security screen and the window.

A LOUD CRASH.

In the nurses' station, the night attendant starts awake and

looks around. Too late as Bromden vaults through the window.

CAMERA HOLDS on window as Bromden runs across the grounds and

disappears into the pine trees.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAWN

as the night attendant comes out of the nurses' station and

looks confusedly around. Then he spots the shattered window.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - EXTREME LONG SHOT - SUNRISE

Rolling hills, forests and distant mountains, bathed in

sunlight, as Bromden runs across a far-off meadow.

CREDITS OVER.

