With the support of the Media Programme of the European Union

The SOUND of Muay Thai boxing... The Art of Eight Limbs... Thrust

and move... Feet shuffling across the ring...

INT. BACK ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE ON a pair of hands from VARIOUS ANGLES...

The SOUNDS of the fighting grow LOUDER. Punches, kicks, elbows...

The hands tense into fists. They're strong hands. Fighter's hands.

ZOOM OUT TO REVEAL Julian (mid-thirties) staring at his hands.

Even though he's kept in shape, he hasn't fought for a long time.

The SOUND of the boxing match gets LOUDER STILL as Julian continues

staring at his hands - it's almost as if he's meditating. Suddenly

he breaths in.

Behind him sits a young kid dressed in Thai boxing clothes - this

is Liang, barely sixteen. He looks nervous, occasionally glancing

at Julian's reflection through the huge mirror that hangs on the

far wall.

Julian continues to stare at his hands and closes them into a

tight fist.

INT. CORRIDORS - NIGHT

The SOUNDS of the boxing match reach FEVER PITCH as we TRACK WITH

Julian and Liang making their way towards the ring.

INT. THAI BOXING RING - NIGHT

Two Young Thai Boxers beat the crap out of each other.

The crowd is wild with excitement, people placing bets on which

way the fight will turn.

One of the Thai Boxers goes down and money immediately starts

changing hands...

The ring is cleared and Liang jumps in as Julian pushes his way

though the crowd, nodding at people as he passes. They know him

here.

Again bets are placed....

PICK OUT a face in the crowd. Billy. Julian's older brother (late

thirties).

Julian sits down next to Billy who's delighted to see him, throwing

his arm around him, pulling him in close.

Billy offers Julian a hit from his bottle of Mehkong whiskey.

Julian refuses. He's more interested in the fight.

BACK TO THE RING where the fight has just started. Liang is

immediately on the ropes.

Julian watches, concerned.

Billy takes a phone call but he can't hear. He nods to Julian

and takes it outside.

BACK TO THE FIGHT where Liang pulls an amazing move. Turns the

tables. Takes the bigger man down with a series of jabs, swings

and backfists.

As Julian applauds Liang's success, Billy slinks off out of the

auditorium.

Liang wins the fight with a knock out... The crowd go wild with

adulation...

Julian watches, transfixed...

Liang is lit up by a beatific white light... As he stands triumphant

in the middle of the ring, the crowd start to gather round him...

Julian continues to stare at what's taking place before him...

... Which is almost like a religious ceremony... The audience

bow down before Liang as he stares out into the light... A look

of calm washing over his face... A sense of stillness and peace...

Enlightenment through victory and violence...

EXT. BANGKOK STREETS - NIGHT

Billy stalks the streets of the city of vice. A man on a mission.

INT. CHANGING ROOMS - NIGHT

Liang is sitting on a bench, his constantly-smiling Mother beside

him, as Julian peels off fifty Bhat notes.

We get the sense that Julian's proud of him, that Liang is something

of a protege of his and that Liang is incredibly pleased to have

gained his approval.

Liang takes the money. Julian pulls off two more notes. A bonus.

Liang nods.

EXT. BACK ALLEY - NIGHT

Billy comes down a back ally and knocks on a door. After a moment

the door opens.

The Doorman recognises him and lets him enter.

INT. UNDERGROUND NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT

WE TRACK with Billy as he makes his way through the small

subterranean nightclub.

A Thai man - known as The Lizard - sits by a table with a few

locals gambling...

He spots Billy and follows him with his eyes as he continues to

gamble.

Billy moves across to a small private corner...

... where he meets various men and women, all smoking

Methamphetamine. Billy joins in but an argument quickly starts

up between him and another Thai Man.

The music's too loud to hear what they're arguing about but it

suddenly gets out of control... Billy starts viciously hitting

the Thai Man and quickly the room EXPLODES in a frenzy of violence.

INT. BACK ROOM - NIGHT

A fan does what it can to cool Julian down as he counts out money

at his desk. Sitting opposite him, feet on the table, is Gordon,

Julian's lieutenant and the closest thing to a friend he's got...

Julian's phone rings. He interrupts his counting. Picks up and

listens...

Beat as Julian listens. He glances over at Gordon who looks up,

concerned.

Beat.

EXT. BACK ALLEY - NIGHT

The Lizard sits outside the nightclub, somehow managing to smoke

a cigarette at the same time as he stems the flow of blood from

his nose with a handkerchief.

Julian and Gordon arrive.

Beat... Julian glances at Gordon.

Julian stares at him...

The Lizard takes the handkerchief away from his nose. Shows the

bloodstain to Julian.

The Lizard smiles but stares at Julian with hatred in his eyes.

Again Julian stares at him - clenching his fist. The Lizard notices

this but gazes up into Julian's face blankly.

A long pause as Julian considers it.

Julian turns to Gordon.

Beat.

The Lizard stares at Julian.

The Lizard gets up - puts out his cigarette and looks at Julian...

Julian looks over to Gordon. Sees he's keen.

He turns back to The Lizard.

The Lizard nods his head towards the busy street. Julian turns

and heads off... Gordon steps up to the entrance to the club.

The Lizard sticks out an arm, blocking his way.

Gordon thinks for beat. Takes out his money...

...and The Lizard smiles for the first time.

INT. MA LONG'S BROTHEL - NIGHT

Julian is talking to Ma Long, fifties, the mother figure to a

group of girls who stand in the background.

A particularly pretty prostitute catches Juilan's eye. He stares

at her, stone faced.

Julian considers. Pulls out his wad of notes again. Hands a few

to Ma Long.

Ma Long nods as she takes the money.

Julian is about to leave. He looks at the pretty prostitute again.

Stares at her for a moment. Then walks out.

EXT. BANGKOK STREETS - NIGHT

Billy's so wasted he's bumping into people. He starts window

shopping the various brothels that line the street: groups of

girls smiling at him... Anything for a price...

PICK OUT one particularly young-looking girl. Just fifteen.

She makes eye contact with Billy... He smiles... Pulls out a roll

of notes...

EXT. BANGKOK STREETS - NIGHT

Julian out in the middle of the road. Girls on the pavement, girls

in the windows. A steady line of punters cruising past.

He stands alone. Focussed. Watchful. An island in a sea of neon.

It feels ominous. Like something really bad's about to happen...

INT. TAXI - NIGHT

CLOSE ON Chang, mid-forties, a man who looks like he's carved

out of stone. The neon lights bleed over his face in a seemingly

unending flow as he's driven towards his destination.

EXT. SEEDY HOTEL - NIGHT

Police cars are parked up outside. Chang gets out of his taxi.

Pays the driver. Makes his way inside.

INT. SEEDY HOTEL - NIGHT

Chang makes his way up the stairs to a landing where a GROUP OF

POLICEMEN are gathered. Their circle opens up as Chang approaches

and they bow as he joins them - like he's a God. One of the group,

Kim Han Ho, gestures towards the door of Room 610 where TWO COPS

stand guard. Chang gives a nod and the door is opened.

INT. ROOM 610 - NIGHT

Chang stands silhouetted in the doorway. Stepping into the room

he moves into the light in CLOSE UP. His face is a mask.

The bed is drenched in blood. The fifteen year old prostitute

lies naked on her back. She's dead, her body having been savagely

beaten in some sort of brutal sex game gone wrong.

Billy is slumped in the corner in his underpants, his eyes glazed,

staring at MTV, a bottle of Mehkong whiskey in his hand, a crack

pipe on the floor.

Chang stares at him, giving nothing away.

INT. ROOM 611 - NIGHT

The Hotel Owner serves tea to Chang who sits in silence with

Lieutenant Kim. The door is open and we can see into room 610

across the corridor where Billy is still sat staring at the

television.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

A young cop, Daeng, who has been watching Chang, summons up courage

to whisper to his superior officer, Phaiban.

Phaiban says nothing.

Before Daeng can ask another questions, two more cops lead an

older Thai man, Choi Yan Lee (50's, overweight, dragged straight

from his bed) down the corridor towards the crime scene.

INT. ROOM 611 - NIGHT

As Choi Yan Lee is delivered to the doorway, Chang gets up and

goes over to him.

A moment of uncertainty in Choi Yan Lee's face. Fear. He doesn't

know why he's been brought here. He looks for some comfort from

Chang. Chang gives him nothing.

INT. ROOM 610 - NIGHT

Chang leads Choi Yan Lee to the doorway. Slowly Choi Yan Lee realises

what he's looking at. His daughter. Dead. Mutilated.

Every father's worst nightmare.

Beat.

... but Choi Yan Lee just stares at his daughter. Finally:

A long moment between them as Choi Yan Lee fails to understand

what Chang is suggesting. Chang stands back.

Choi Yan Lee nods. Chang leaves the room, closing the door behind

him.

INT. ROOM 611 - NIGHT

Chang sits drinking tea in silence with Lieutenant Kim. The guards

in the corridor stare at the closed door of Room 610 from where

we hear the cries of Billy being beaten to death.

ANGLE ON: Daeng who's starting to look scared. Phaiban puts a

reassuring hand on his shoulder.

As the beating reaches its climax, with Choi Yan Lee screaming

out Thai obscenities, we hear the sickening sound of Billy's neck

snapping. And then a regular thud as blow after blow rain down

on his body.

INT. ROOM 610 - NIGHT

Chang opens the door and looks through.

Choi Yan Lee is sitting breathlessly on the floor covered in blood.

In his hand he holds a piece of wood he has ripped from a chair.

Billy lies dead, his head completely smashed in.

EXT. BANGKOK - NIGHT

A police car drives through the city streets and onto the freeway

heading out of town.

INT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT

The bloodied Choi Yan Lee sits in the back, Chang on one side,

Kim on the other. As the police car turns onto a more major road,

Choi Yan Lee starts to get nervous.

Beat. Chang says nothing. Phaiban is driving, Daeng in the

passenger seat. Daeng looks back at them through the rearview

mirror...

EXT. BANGKOK - NIGHT

The Police Car heads over the Mega Bridge and continues its way

out of town.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

The bright white headlights of the stationary police car blind

Choi Yan Lee who's caught in their glare, rigid with fear.

Beat. Choi Yan Lee is wrongfooted. Tentatively...

Choi Yan Lee can't answer.

Daeng watches as Kim opens the boot and pulls something out. He

walks towards Chang and hands it to him. Daeng sees that it's

an axe.

Chang nods to Kim and Phaiban who grab hold of Choi Yan Lee. Kim

slips a plastic strap around Choi Yan Lee's arm, using it as a

tourniquet. They wrestle him to the ground and pull his arm out.

Chang approaches with the axe. He stops for a moment. Looks down

at him...

Chang slams down the axe, severing Choi Yan Lee's arm at the elbow.

Choi Yan Lee SCREAMS in agony.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

The anonymity of a hotel room. Julian opens the curtains and we

see the sky line of Bangkok - he looks out.

He lies back on the bed, surfing through two hundred TV channels.

Settles on a boxing match. Starts drifting off...

As he drifts we hear the SOUND OF SINGING. A karaoke rendition

of 'I Hung My Head' by Johnny Cash.

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

REVEAL that the voice is that of Chang and he's not half bad either:

deeper than you'd have though, and with it comes a stage presence,

a sort of John Wayne swagger...

The policemen, still dressed in their uniforms, watch in

respectful silence. Daeng sits with them. He too watches in awe.

INT. SKYTRAIN - DAWN

Chang travels home across the city.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / LANDING - MORNING

Chang opens the door as quietly as he can. He slips off his shoes

and walks gingerly into the apartment.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / KITCHEN - MORNING

On the kitchen table Chang sees a picture. A badly-drawn house

with a man, a woman and a child. Across the bottom: "LOVE YOU

DADDY FROM DAUGHTER AND WIFE XXX'

Chang stares at it and smiles - picks it up and pins it to the

fridge with a magnet.

INT. CHANG'S HOUSE / KANITA'S BEDROOM - DAY

Chang and Kanita, his eight year old daughter, are playing with

her dolls who have captured a soft toy.

Kanita thinks for a moment.

Again Kanita thinks.

Kanita shakes her head.

Chang picks up the soft toy. Peels off a sticker from a sheet

and places it between its eyes. Satisfied with his work he puts

the soft toy back in the middle of the game.

Kanita nods, happy with the judgement. She picks the soft toy

up and 'walks' it away from the village of the dolls.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / MAIN BEDROOM - DAY

Chang walks into his bedroom where his wife Nadee is just waking

up. He kisses her good morning.

As he starts to undress, she starts to get dressed. They share

a smile about this. Finally Chang lies down on the bed and closes

his eyes. Nadee kisses him good night.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / KITCHEN - DAY

Nadee starts making breakfast as Kanita watches cartoons.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / BEDROOM - DAY

As Chang sleeps the heavy curtains are drawn to keep out the light

of the day - but they cannot deaden the sound of the city outside

as it goes about its frenetic everyday business.

The CAMERA MOVES through the apartment, briefly settling on the

sleeping Chang, then roaming through the various rooms, PICKING

OUT different objects...

We see that Chang is obsessed with cowboy films and a keen collector

- the sitting room is stuffed with movie posters, photographs

and other bits of movie memorabilia...

Amongst the many family photos we also PICK OUT several pictures

of Chang when he was in the army and shots of what looks like

a very successful career as a Thai boxer.

At the end of the tour we're back with Chang. We ZOOM IN to a

tight CLOSE SHOT.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

We see a hotel room door and hear a knock - Julian ENTERS FRAME

and opens to reveal...

...Two Thai girls - one being Mai - standing in the hallway. Julian

lets them enter.

Mai embraces Julian, kissing him on the mouth as Julian closes

the door.

They turn to consider the other girl who is starting to undress.

She smiles compliantly, eager to please.

Julian turns back to Mai and kisses her again. As the kiss becomes

more passionate, the other girl joins them and the three of them

begin to have sex.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT - DAY

Chang is sitting eating alone at the dinning table, watching an

old western on TV.

EXT. BANGKOK STREETS - DAY

Chang walks down the streets towards a school. Standing at the

gate, Kanita is waiting for him. He hugs her and they hold hands

as they continue down the crowded street.

INT. TOY STORE - DAY

Chang waits patiently at the counter as Kanita sorts through

various dolls, trying to choose which one to buy...

Chang looks round and gazes out the window into the street where

pedestrians stream past. Suddenly Chang has a strange VISION:

All the women disappear. In the street there are only men.

We cut to a CLOSE UP of Chang and then back to his VISION again:

Now all the men have gone and he can see only women.

Back to the CLOSE UP of Chang who continues staring out of the

... where everything is back to normal. Men and women walking

up and down the sidewalk.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DUSK

The remnants of various room service orders litter the floor along

with the trappings of a heavy session: empty bottles of alcohol,

drug paraphernalia, etc.

Julian lies sleeping, entwined in the limbs of the girl...

There is a knock on the door. Julian and the girl ignore it.

A pause and then Julian's mobile phone starts ringing. He doesn't

answer.

The knocking starts up again, this time louder. Finally:

Beat - then we hear a voice from behind the door.

Still they ignore him. Either too wasted or too tired to do anything

else.

Beat. Finally Julian answers with zero energy...

Beat.

Julian opens his eyes, confused - still out of his head on drugs.

No answer. Finally Julian gets up and wraps a towel around his

body and slowly opens the door.

Gordon stands in the hallway - behind him two Thai men from Julian's

crew.

Julian doesn't know what to say... Neither does Gordon.

Julian nods and closes the door. He stands still - glances out

the window - seeing the sun setting and the night coming in. He

glances at the pretty girl still sleeping on the bed.

He goes into the bathroom where Mai is dressed and putting on

make up.

Julian looks at her.

The camera ZOOMS IN on Mai.

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

A Mortuary Attendant pulls a sheet back to reveal -

Billy. His body completely mutilated.

Julian stares at his brother's corpse intensely, not betraying

any emotion.

He turns to Gordon who's standing behind him.

Julian glances back at the body...

EXT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT

Julian stares up at the night sky, his mobile phone gripped tightly

in his hand. He puts the phone down.

He looks out across the city again then back to the phone.

It's like he's scared.

He picks it up quickly and dials. A moment as it rings then it's

answered.

Beat.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL - DAY

The CAMERA tracks as we follow a pair of high heeled shoes belonging

to an elegant woman in her fifties, who looks like she's in her

forties and could actually pass for late thirties. She strides

towards reception, a Porter struggling to keep up with her. This

is Jenna Hopkins. Head of a notorious London Crime Family. Mother

of both Julian and Billy. Newly appointed Lady Macbeth of Bangkok.

She hands her passport over to the Concierge.

The Concierge checks the computer.

Beat... Jenna just stares at him...

Beat.

The Concierge retreats. Jenna lights a cigarette.

The Manager just stares at her but is clearly taken back by her

force...

Jenna pulls out a massive bundle of notes. Peels off a couple

of hundred dollar bills.

She lays the money on the desk. The manager looks around...

The Manager turns to the Concierge.

The Manager hesitates.

The Manager takes the money. Pockets it. Places the key on the

desk.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / CORRIDOR - DAY

The lift doors open and Jenna walks out, the Porter struggling

to keep up with her as she swishes down the corridor.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / ROOM 300 - DAY

The struggling Porter opens the door and lets Jenna in. She walks

into the suite and gives it the once over.

Satisfactory.

The Porter places her bags on the side and hangs up some of her

clothes, desperate to try and get out in one piece... As soon

as he's finished he bows and starts to shuffle out of the room.

Jenna points to the Duty Free bag then starts running a bath,

beginning to undress.

The Porter is stunned.

The Porter fumbles, taking the gin out of the Duty Free bag, spilling

the tonic in his nervousness as he makes her cocktail.

Jenna returns in a dressing gown, takes the drink off him and

takes a huge slug.

The Porter is terrified, stunned. Rooted to the spot.

Jenna sits on the bed and stares out of the window. Just as the

Porter thinks it's safe to try edging out of the room again, she

starts talking to him...

Beat. The Porter doesn't know what the fuck she's talking about.

She looks over at him. The Porter smiles at her.

The Porter nods, uncertain. Jenna gets up, goes over to her purse.

Opens it up. A picture of Billy.

She hands it to the Porter - who takes it and just looks at it,

not knowing what to do...

Jenna starts to cry. For a long time. Finally...

Jenna snaps out of it in an instant.

She pulls a fifty dollar bill out of her purse. She hands the

money to the Porter who leaves as quickly as he dares.

BLACK. We hear Dave Berry singing 'Mama'.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - NIGHTMARE

The elevator doors open. Julian steps out into the empty hallway.

Everything is normal... But everything is also not normal.

The CAMERA tracks from behind as Julian walks - looking at the

doors as he passes them and finally stopping in front of one:

He knocks but there is no answer. Realizing the door isn't locked,

he pushes it open and steps in.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHTMARE

The room is exactly the same as the one Jenna's staying in. However,

instead of her, Julian sees a man sitting on the bed, his back

to him. His features are obscured...

Julian slowly begins to walk towards him, but before he can reach

out, the figure turns to face him...

It's Chang. But there is blood smeared all over his face...

Julian stares at him in horror. Slowly he looks down at his hands

only to discover that they're dripping in blood...

We ZOOM IN on his hands.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Julian wakes from his nightmare - covered in sweat. He is alone.

He sits up. Looks at his hands, still very shaken by his nightmare...

We hear the traffic of Bangkok. Julian gets up and walks to the

table... Light up and begins to smoke morphine... He walks to

the window and looks out over Bangkok...

His phone rings - Julian answers...

Julian looks at his watch.

Beat.

Julian turns his back to the window.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / BAR

Jenna looks immaculate. She stubs out her cigarette when she spots

Julian making his way towards her. She gets up and they embrace.

She holds on to him. A little too long.

Finally she pulls away. She looks at him for a long time.

Jenna smiles to herself as if this brings back memories and Julian

even smiles. Both sit in silence for a moment.

HOLD ON Julian as we bring up the SOUND of Johnny Cash's Ring

of Fire.

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

Chang is singing again...

And the cops are all there, Daeng included, watching him...

INT. THAI BOXING CLUB - NIGHT

Chang's singing continues as we see an assortment of tough looking

Thai Men listening to Gordon (MUTE).

Gordon explains the situation: what information they're after,

how much they'll get paid for good leads.

All the while Julian watches from the background.

EXT. BANGKOK STREETS - NIGHT

A montage of Julian's crew spreading out, shaking down their

various contacts: doormen, pimps, dirty cops, stall holders,

barmen...

One of the crew, the rat faced Charlie Ling, starts talking to

the Hotel Owner who was there the night of the murder. A couple

of hundred Bhat notes and he starts talking...

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

Chang reaches the climax of the song.

The Cops watch with total devotion.

EXT. SLUMS - DAY

A Tuck-tuck makes its way through the crowded streets driven by

one of Choi Yan Lee's Three Daughter's.

In the back sits Choi Yan Lee, his stump of an arm in a sling,

a daughter either side of him.

His arm's only just been bandaged up and he's clearly still in

a lot of pain, his face going into spasm with every bump in the

road.

EXT. CHOI YAN LEE'S KIOSK - DAY

Julian stands on the street corner sipping a soft drink. Waiting.

Behind him Gordon, his phone glued to his face.

On the other side of the road is Choi Yan Lee's Kiosk, big enough

to double as his home, currently manned by his long suffering

wife Kim Yan Lee. She serves a chilled coconut to a man. As he

turns round we reveal... he's a particularly murderous looking

member of Julian's crew - Ko Sam.

We pick out Charlie Ling a little further down the road, who's

looking at a tray of battery powered robots that some Street Kid's

selling.

They're all counting down the minutes. Biding their time. Waiting

for Choi Yan Lee to turn up.

Finally the sound of the Tuck-tuck approaching...

Ko Sam drinks his coconut down in one - slurping as he hits the

bottom. Letting the empty shell fall to the floor.

Charlie Ling stands up. Feels the gun under his jacket.

The Tuck-tuck pulls up and Choi Yan Lee's Daughters help him into

the kiosk that doubles as their home.

Julian and his men close in.

INT. CHOI YAN LEE'S SHACK

As Choi Yan Lee enters his home and his daughters make a fuss

of him, the shutters of the kiosk counter are suddenly SLAMMED

SHUT.

They all turn round in panic, but before they can do anything

about it, the last of the three daughters is pushed into the kiosk,

followed by Ko Sam, Charlie Ling, Gordon and Julian.

Choi Yan Lee snivels in the corner, waving his bandaged arm in

the air.

Ko Sam shakes his head at her. Not a good idea. Julian turns to

Charlie Ling.

At the mention of his name the colour drains from Choi Yan Lee's

face. His eyes lock with Julian's.

Choi Yan Lee nods his head.

Beat. Choi Yan Lee knows he's been caught...

Julian considers him for a moment. Slowly he pulls out a gun...

Aims it at Choi Yan Lee's face...

In his desperation Choi Yan Lee suddenly lurches forward,

brandishing his wounded arm at Julian. He pulls the bandages off,

exposing the bloody stump.

Julian turns to Charlie Ling.

Beat.

Choi Yan Lee nods his head enthusiastically.

Again he thrusts his stump at Julian who glances at him.

Choi Yan Lee looks at the various faces that surround him - then

stares directly at Julian.

Charlie Ling looks at him surprised... yet there's a sense that

deep down he knows what he's talking about...

Gordon laughs... but Julian listens with great interest...

Ko Sam smiles. Julian doesn't. Finally:

Charlie Ling's reluctant to question him further. Julian insists.

Choi Yan Lee continues babbling hysterically...

Choi Yan Lee starts to giggle uncontrollably.

Choi Yan Lee retreats to the corner of the room.

Charlie Ling considers Choi Yan Lee. Realizes he's not going to

get a better answer out of him...

Julian considers this for a long time. He realises he's not pointing

his gun anymore. Puts it away.

The room suddenly feels stuffy. The atmosphere oppressive.

Julian's got to get out...

But Julian's already stumbling out of the kiosk...

EXT. KIOSK - DAY

Julian stumbles out of the kiosk and breaths in lungfulls of air.

Disoriented, he careers into a stall selling various religious

artefacts, sending candles, incense and statues of Buddha

flying...

He falls to the ground. When he gets to his feet everything around

him seems intense and incredibly vibrant... The dogs fighting

on the street, the Buddha that lies in pieces on the ground, the

children that stand watching him, his crew as they come out of

the kiosk, hiding their guns...

Julian takes a long moment to get his bearings... Finally he stands

up, but as he does he feels different... As if the axis of his

world has shifted...

INT. THAI BOXING CLUB - NIGHT

The CAMERA TRACKS from the side as we see Jenna walk through the

boxing gym. All around her people are fighting and sparring.

She spots Julian and Gordon through the large windows of the office.

They see her and stand up.

We LINGER OUTSIDE in the training area as Jenna goes through THE

DOOR...

INT. BACK ROOM - NIGHT

Boxers train in the background. Jenna, Julian and Gordon sit in

silence. Finally:

Beat. A shared look between Gordon and Julian.

Beat... Julian does not know how to explain the situation. Jenna

stares at him.

Silence. Julian doesn't know how to answer. Jenna watches him

carefully...

Jenna thinks it over for a moment.

Jenna stares at her son like he's finally lost the plot.

Beat.

Julian can't get the words out. He gets up.

...and Julian leaves - letting the door to the office stay open.

We pick up the sounds of the fighters training outside as we slowly

ZOOM IN on Jenna. She turns to Gordon.

Gordon shrugs. Jenna clocks it.

Gordon smiles at her uncertainly.

She stares at him, long enough to make him uncomfortable.

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

A girl sings 'Another Woman's Man' by Dolly Parton.

Julian's sitting alone at a table, nursing a drink.

Mai enters, looking much more sophisticated than when we saw her

in the hotel. She sits next to Julian and gives him a kiss on

the cheek.

He drinks his drink. Silence...

Mai looks around the bar... It's half empty - some girls and men

spread out.

The waitress comes over and Mai orders a drink. They sit in silence,

listening to the song...

Julian glances round but shakes his head. Looks at Mai.

Beat. Silence. Finally...

A pause, Mai slightly taken about.

Julian nods.

Julian nods. Mai studies him.

Julian stares at her for a long time. Can't quite say it out loud,

but the answer's yes.

EXT. CHOI YAN LEE'S SHACK - NIGHT

Choi Yan Lee oversees his daughter's serving hot food to customers.

FOCUS ON Liang, the young kick boxer, watching him from across

the street. Liang pulls out a knife which glints in the light

of the street lamps. He heads over to the shack.

Liang asks Choi Yan Lee a question. Choi Yan Lee leans over to

hear him better. Liang GRABS hold of his hair and PULLS him over

the counter, SLITTING his throat with the knife.

Choi Yan Lee's wife and daughters look on as blood floods from

his neck, over the sweets and snacks on sale and down to the ground

below.

Life slips away from Choi Yan Lee in a matter of seconds. Liang

holds onto him until he's dead and then lets go of his head and

runs off into the night.

EXT. BANGKOK STREET - NIGHT

Gordon is waiting on a street corner smoking cigarettes. Liang

comes up to him, breathless.

Gordon pulls out several hundred dollars.

Liang nods.

Liang takes the money. A proper pay out.

INT. BACK ROOM - DAY

Julian's talking to Liang's Mother and Sister who are sitting

in front of him, both upset. Gordon hovers in the background...

Liang's Mother pulls out a mobile phone. Passes it to Julian.

Liang's Sister nods. Julian scrolls through the numbers. All have

Thai names against them - except one. Julian considers the number,

then redials.

A beat. Then the SOUND of a phone ringing in the same room.

Gordon looks round. Realises he's busted. Takes his phone out.

Kills it.

Julian stares at him. Before he gets a chance to say anything,

there is a knock on the door.

Julian thinks it over...

INT. BOXING CLUB - DAY

Julian clocks the cops who are waiting for him. He walks over,

strangely on edge. As he gets closer he sees Chang - standing

on the other side of the room by the boxing ring, his back to

him, watching the sparring fighters... Julian stares at him...

Turns back to the cops...

Slowly Chang turns to face him. Julian stares at him as if he's

in a trance...

Julian recovers. Turns to Kim and shrugs.

Julian manages to cover his reaction.

A beat. Mexican stand off.

Julian looks over to Chang who continues staring at the boxers.

The way the ring is lit he's almost silhouetted.

Some of the boxers come over to Chang. They know him. They're

reverential. With the effect of the lighting, it seems to Julian

like they're bowing down before a God.

Chang turns round to face Julian. His presence is magnetic. Julian

stares back at him, realizing that this must be the Angel of

Vengeance... Chang walks over to them. Studies Julian for a long

moment and then turns to Kim.

And as soon as he's said it, he turns on his heel and leaves.

The cops back off and away.

ZOOM IN on Julian. Deflated and strangely disappointed... He turns

to Gordon who's standing behind him.

The SOUND of Nadee singing 'LONELY COMING DOWN' by Dolly Parton.

INT. KARAOKE BAR

Chang sits on his own drinking apple juice as he watches his wife

sing on stage. Julian enters, sees Chang but can only see the

back of his face. He walks over to the bar, orders a drink.

Julian starts to watch Nadee. When he turns back to the bar he

sees Chang reflected in the optics - somehow standing right next

to him, staring at him. Julian turns to face him.

Chang says nothing for a long time.

Beat.

Julian nods.

Chang stares back at him.

Julian nods.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Three cops sit eating noodles.

The question hangs in the air. It's what they're all wondering.

A mutual pause.

EXT. CHANG'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Nadee is standing behind Chang. They're playing a game in which

they speak in English.

She points out the window.

`She points at the table.

Chang stiffens. Nadee detects the change in him.

Chang takes her in his arms. He starts kissing her neck.

A pause.

She stares at him for a long moment. It's odd for him to have

confessed his feelings in such a way. Not bad, just odd. And then

she starts to kiss him back...

EXT. STREET - EVENING

Julian is anxiously waiting outside. He looks up as Mai comes

out of her appartment in a red dress.

Julian's face drops.

Mai stares at him, reluctant to give in.

Mai gives in. Takes his hand.

INT. CLOTHES SHOP - NIGHT

Chang picks out a dress for Mai. She takes it, finding it hard

to believe that he's making her do this...

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Three people sit around a table awkwardly. Julian, Jenna and Mai

(dressed very conservatively) all eating soup. A long silence.

Mai's about to answer but Juilan gets there first.

Beat as Mai quickly counts in her head...

Jenna raises an eyebrow...

Mai stares at Jenna in disbelief.

Beat. Julian says nothing.

A pause.

Beat. She stares at him.

Jenna looks bored. Lights a cigarette.

Mai stands up.

Mai sits down.

Julian stares at her.

Jenna calms down. She looks at their reflections in the mirror

behind the bar. We ZOOM in on the mirror, their faces refracted

by the glass.

Beat.

Jenna stares at him - this is a conversation she does not like

having...

He turns to Mai.

Jenna silently seethes, waiting for Julian to shut the fuck up.

He quietens down...

Julian turns to her - he has been waiting all his life to say

this.

Jenna stares at him. Her face a mask.

Silence between them. Jenna lights another cigarette - her hands

now shaking.

Jenna slaps him hard on the face. Julian recovers. Looks up at

her. Very intense.

Jenna turns to Mai.

A pause. Julian's touched a nerve. Jenna recovers.

Jenna composes herself. Suddenly brightens. A different person.

Jenna shakes her hand. Mai's too shocked to resist. And then,

as if nothing had happened, Jenna leaves.

Julian covers his face with his napkin.

He's not. He's crying. But he doesn't want anyone to see.

Beat.

Julian wipes his face clean. Pulls himself together.

EXT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL - NIGHT

Jenna gets out of her cab and walks toward reception, a look of

steely determination in her eyes.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL - NIGHT

The Concierge and the Manager see Jenna coming towards them and

brace themselves...

However, to their relief, she diverts to the palm court area where

Gordon is waiting for her.

Jenna sits down. Lights a cigarette.

Gordon blushes. Jenna blows out her match.

Beat. She raises her eyebrows.

Gordon blushes. Moves closer, conspiratorial...

Jenna looks at Gordon - smiles and crosses her legs.

Gordon thinks he does but isn't a hundred per cent sure.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Julian sits on a chair, holding his hand over a flame. Mai finishes

applying make up, comes out of the bathroom wearing her red dress.

She watches him for a moment.

Mai watches him. He doesn't flinch.

Julian takes his hand off the flame. Sees she's left the clothes

he bought her behind.

Julian stands up, angry.

Julian grabs hold her neck. Throws her hard against the wall.

He lets go of her neck. Mai rubs her neck.

He pulls money out of his pocket.

He forces a roll of notes into her hand, forcing her to take it.

She opens the door, sets fire to the money, and walks out of the

room.

As she walks down the hotel corridor, Julian slams his fists into

the wall.

INT. SKYLIGHT BAR - NIGHT

A mixed clientele. High class. Asian and European. But there's

an edge to the atmosphere. The music's that bit too loud, that

bit too aggressive. And the people inside don't look like they're

having a good time. It seems evil. Sleazy.

Jenna introduces herself to Yuri Karkov, a well dressed and

charismatic Russian in his forties who is surrounded by Thai girls

and fellow Russians including his distinctive looking bodyguard,

Dimitri.

As the camera TRACKS CLOSER to them we start to hear what they're

saying...

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Chang and his crew eat dinner together.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

A crappy van pulls up outside. Out get three Cambodian men. Very

poor, badly clothed. They look like farmers. Only they pull out

semi automatic firearms and head for the restaurant.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Chang has just finished a meal with the Cops including Kim, Daeng

and Phaiban. Chang is just settling the bill when the Three Gunmen

walk in. He looks up just as they OPEN FIRE.

An insane storm of led rains down on the room, shattering all

the mirrors on the back wall, taking out Two Waitresses and covering

the room with broken glass.

Chang hits the floor and starts to drag himself towards some cover.

Chang's men are completely pinned down. Phaiban's been hit and

his white shirt has turned dark red with blood.

Chang keeps edging towards where his jacket's hanging on a chair.

In it, his pistol.

The Gunmen keep firing. As soon as a clip is finished, they pull

it out and put a fresh one in and keep shooting.

A stray bullet hits the waiter who knocks over the chair Chang's

jacket's on. It falls to the ground. With it, his pistol. He grabs

it and returns fire, letting off four rounds.

He takes Gunman One. Head shot, right between the eyes. Gunman

Two sees this and sprays at Chang -

- but Chang manages to dive to cover. He rolls and fires again,

shooting Gunman Two in the chest three times.

Chang's out of ammo and needs to reload. Gunman Three's weapon

jams. He drops his weapon and runs.

Before he's finished reloading his pistol, Chang's after him.

He sees Phaiban. Dead. Daeng trying to stem the flow of blood

from his chest.

Chang keeps running, determined not to lose his man.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The driver of the crappy van smokes nervously in the driving seat

as he waits. As soon as he sees Gunman Three, panic-stricken,

running in fear, he puts the van in gear, revs the engine and

starts to pull away.

Gunman Three runs after him, crying out for him to slow down.

The Driver slows. Gunman Three struggles to jump into the open

doors.

Chang bursts out of the restaurant. Stops dead. Aims and fires

off two rounds.

Blood spatters across the inside of the windscreen. The Driver

falls forward, dead.

The back door of the van slams shut. Gunman Three thinks he's

made it. He's wrong. The van isn't going anywhere.

Chang approaches the back door of the van, ready to fire.

A long pause. Finally:

The door opens. Sandaled feet step out of the van. Gunman Three

comes out with his hands up, falling to his knees. Chang continues

to point his weapon at the unarmed man.

The Cops appear behind him in the doorway. Chang holds his ground.

His finger twitches. It looks like he's going to pull the trigger.

A long beat.

Gunman Three looks up... Nods.

INT. COVERED ELECTRICAL MARKET - NIGHT

Flanked by the Cops, Chang frog marches Gunman Three through the

crowds, passing various stalls that seem to sell anything you

could ever want for your TV, computer or Hi-fi.

Gunman Three is so scared that he keeps forgetting the route and

fretting about which way to turn at every junction in the

warren-like market.

Finally they reach the entrance to a particular shop.

INT. ELECTRICAL SHOP - NIGHT

Chang enters, followed by the others. Gunman Three is incredibly

relieved to have found it. Li Po stands behind the counter - beside

him sits Pan, a twelve year old boy who is severely handicapped.

As soon as Li Po sees Chang and his crew arrive with Gunman Three

next to them he knows the game's up. He can't run. His kid's sitting

there...

He approaches them with a heavy sigh.

Chang turns to Li Po.

Chang stares at him...

Li Po summons the contact details on his distinctive looking mobile

phone. Proffers it to Chang.

Chang looks down at Pan - who is just staring at them, not

understanding the situation.

Chang takes the phone from Li Po.

Chang aims his gun at Gunman Three.

Chang shakes his head.

Chang fires. Gunman Three's brains spatter across the TV screens

on the far side of the wall.

Pan begins to cry and Li Po hugs him and tells him how much he

loves him... thinking they're next...

Chang studies the mobile phone.

Li Po nods - scared.

Chang studies Li Po making sure he speaks the truth... then nods.

Chang turns to leave.

Beat. Chang considers. Looks at Pan who's staring at Chang in

fear. Looks back at Li Po.

EXT. THE JUPITER - NIGHT

A people carrier pulls up outside the hotel. The doormen open

the side door and step back when they see the heavily armed and

bloodstained policemen get out, led by Chang.

INT. SKYLIGHT BAR - NIGHT

PICK OUT Dimitri and the group of Russian Criminals. Yuri Karkov

is in the centre of them, a girl on either arm.

Chang leads the Cops into the bar. He fires two shots into the

ceiling. That shuts everyone up and gets the Russian Criminals

up and ready for a confrontation. Half the bar's emptied by the

time Chang reaches Yuri Karkov.

Chang looks at him.

Yuri looks round for help. He can't understand a word.

Chang calls over to the barman.

The music's killed.

Chang pulls out Li Po's distinctive mobile phone.

Dimitri, currently flanking Yuri, turns white.

Chang calls a number. A beat. Then a phone starts ringing in

Dimitri's jacket pocket (with a really cheesy ringtone). Dimitri

winces. Chang shakes his head.

Yuri pulls a gun. Kim shoots him dead. Chang moves his gun across

to Dimitri. Holds his mobile phone up to his ear.

Dimitri answers. Chang speaks through the phone.

INT. SKYLIGHT BAR - LATER

WE TRACK IN on Dimitri as he stares at Chang, a rabbit in the

headlights. Chang slowly sits down next to him. Talks to him in

English.

Phaiban spins a spotlight onto Dimitri.

Suddenly the atmosphere in the emptied club shifts. It's as if

Dimitri and Chang are locked into some kind of surreal

performance...

Dimitri's body starts to shake in fear.

A beat. Not what Chang expected...

Dimitri shakes his head. He really doesn't know.

Chang starts to circle him. Dimitri's terrified. Doesn't know

what the fuck he's on about. Suddenly he's grabbed from behind

by Phaiban.

Chang smashes a beer bottle and walks up behind Dimitri...

He pushes the broken bottle into Dimitri's eyes. Gauges them out.

Dimitri screams hysterically - calling out for his mother in

Russian...

Phaibun grabs Dimitri's head from behind. Chang presses down on

his stomach with his knee and opens his mouth - grabs hold of

his tongue and with a blade slowly cuts it off.

...Dimitri's screams become more like the howls of a dying

animal...

Chang looks at him and his men release Dimitri who stumbles around

the room like a chicken without a head...

Chang grabs Dimitri and pushes the knife into his ear. First one

side, then the other.

SOUND OUT. We can't hear Dimitri's screaming. We can't hear

anything at all.

Beat.

MUSIC STARTS. Painful and beautiful, but also tacky... The opening

bars to one of Dolly Parton's classics. Karaoke style.

And Chang with his crew just stare at the tortured Russian as

he screams until his lungs are ready to burst.

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

Nadee and Chang on stage. Singing their hearts out.

His crew watch, emotion etched on their faces...

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / JENNA'S ROOM - NIGHT

Gordon is sitting on a chair in Jenna's hotel room, a whiskey

in his hand, the Bangkok skyline behind him.

Jenna walks in from the bedroom wearing her dressing gown and

walks over to him - a commanding presence. He makes to get up

but she pushes him down and then leans down and kisses him hard

on the mouth.

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

Nadee and Chang continue singing - a spotlight beaming down on

them, singling them out in the shadowy bar.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / JENNA'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jenna and Gordon are still kissing as the guitar solo of the

instrumental section kicks in...

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

As Chang waits for the instrumental section to end, he starts

to cry, letting the tears flow without embarrassment. Nadee puts

her arm around him to comfort him.

The rest of the crew start crying as well, Daeng in particular.

INT. THAI BOXING CLUB - NIGHT

Julian trains alone in the night...

INT. KARAOKE BAR- NIGHT

Nadee and Chang holding hands...

INT. THAI BOXING CLUB - NIGHT

...Julian stares at his reflection.

Julian lifts his fists up. The same fighting pose we saw him in

at the very beginning. He's ready. Ready as he'll ever be.

INT. THAI BOXING RING - NIGHT

Two figures kneel on either side of the ring. Julian and Chang.

Both wearing Mongkol. Totally still.

The ceremonial music begins...

Slowly Julian and Chang start to perform Ram Muay, the ancient,

traditional dance which the rules of the game say must be carried

out before a fight takes place.

It is both strange and spiritual: Julian and Chang move their

arms rhythmically, in time to the music, their hands describing

shapes and outlining fighting positions.

As the dance develops, so their positions become more combative;

now crouching, now standing, hinting at the kicks and punches

that they're about to perform... but all carried out with an almost

beatific precision that is at odds with the violence that is about

to follow...

The Music Ends. A moment of stillness, and then slowly we bring

up the SOUND of the baying crowd. Chanting. Screaming. Wild

excitement. Ready for the fight they've all been waiting for...

INT. THAI BOXING RING - NIGHT

The crowd is packed. In one corner: Julian. Charlie Ling beside

him along with Ko Sam. He looks focussed. Confident.

In the other corner: Chang. Kim next to him along with a couple

of his crew. He looks incredibly calm.

The first bell sounds. Five second warning...

Chang looks over into the crowd. Kanita with Nadee. Kanita offers

him a 'thumbs up'. Chang smiles. Returns it.

Julian looks over. Sees Mai take a seat. She holds his gaze.

The second bell sounds. The first of five rounds. Julian and Chang

walk up to the centre of the ring. The Referee stands between

them. Brings them together. A quick look down to the Three Judges.

Then a look between the two fighters.

Julian eyes Chang. Steely determination in his eyes. Chang looks

back at him without emotion.

Julian and Chang circle each other. Julian moves in to attack

first. He throws a straight left first to Chang's face and steps

his left foot forward at the same time. Chang bends his right

leg, dodging the attack. He then pounces on the upper part of

Julian's arm with his right hand and catches his wrist with his

left hand. He tries to turn Julian's front wrist up, but Julian's

too strong. This is a surprise for Chang. He breaks and steps

back.

Julian moves in to attack again, raising both elbows to make an

attack on Chang's head. Chang steps forward and pulls an uppercut,

connecting hard with Julian's chin. Julian moves back, dazed.

Takes a moment to get his bearings back. That hurt.

Chang doesn't take the opportunity to attack. He hangs back.

Waiting for Julian to come at him again. This pisses Julian off.

He moves forward and throws an offensive kick with his right foot.

Chang moves back to dodge the attack and swivels to try and strike

with a counter attack. He moves too slow. The right footed attack

was a feint. Julian slams his right foot down on the floor and

uses it to swivel, unleashing a kick with his left which connects

with Chang's jaw and sends him flying back.

Julian uses his forward motion to propel him onwards. He bounds

over to the disoriented Chang and hits him with a series of jabs

and punches to his upper body and face.

Chang's almost on the ropes. Julian comes in hard with kicks to

the shins with his right foot. Chang bends his body to pass under

Julian's right foot. Julian misses the target. Chang manages to

place his right foot on Julian's left knee-joint which makes him

fall down.

Julian's in a vulnerable position, but Chang doesn't move to make

the killer blow. He steps back to let him recover. Again this

enrages Julian.

He gets up and moves forward towards Chang. He comes in with a

high right kick. Again Chang manages to dodge the attack and returns

with a right foot to the back of Julian's left knee. Julian swivels,

punches air, and gets a trio of punches in his gut. His guard's

down. But again no killer punch.

Chang retreats. Shrugs at Julian. You come on.

Julian moves towards him, but before he gets a chance to take

out his frustrations, the bell goes. End of round one.

Julian stalks back to his corner. He turns to look at Chang, a

look of intense anger and frustration.

INT. THAI BOXING RING - NIGHT

Julian moves towards the middle where Chang is already waiting.

Julian waits for Chang this time. Chang is reluctant to attack.

A waiting game... Who will strike first... Chang wins. Julian

moves to kick Chang in the ribs, keeping both his hands down as

he moves in. Chang predicts this and prepares to throw his own

kick as it comes in. Chang steps back, but again Julian swivels,

using his right foot instead to pivot and unleashes a killer strike

with his left foot. Chang goes flying backwards.

PICK OUT the look of concern etched on the faces of Nadee and

Kanita.

Chang recovers but Julian moves in fast with a series of punches

and elbows. Chang's on the ropes now and getting badly beaten.

He clings on to Julian to limit the damage.

The two fighters step back from each other. Chang's face is damaged.

Juilan's about to get stuck into him again when the bell sounds.

End of the second round.

Round three: Julian slamming punches into Chang. Nadee comforting

Kanita. Telling her it'll be okay. Chang responding with kicks

and elbows. Defensive blocks and counter attacks. Mai willing

Julian on. Jenna watching with Gordon...

End of round: Julian feeling more confident. Again his eyes scan

the crowd. This time he sees what he's looking for: Jenna.

Chang eyeballs Julian from the other corner. Sees him staring

into the crowd. Looks over. Tries to see what he's looking at

but can't make it out.

POV from Chang as he sees Jenna make her way toward Julian. When

she gets to him we see her saying something to Julian about the

fight - urging him to hit harder...

Jenna then walks back to Gordon...

On Chang. Deep in thought. He gets up early. Walks around the

ring. Looking into the crowd.

Jenna sees him. Stares at him. Suddenly nervous.

Everything slows down as Chang clocks her again. The colours of

the room change from blue to yellow to red. He's seen her and

she knows she's been seen. And he knows. And she knows that he

knows...

The bell goes off. Back to reality. Chang turns round. Too late.

He gets a massive blow to his head. He goes down hard.

The Referee starts counting.

Nadee and Kanita watch on, fearful.

Jenna holds her breath. Hopeful that he might be down and out.

Kim watches on, concerned.

After a long, terrible pause... Chang gets up. He looks over into

the crowd. Makes eye contact with his wife. It's okay.

She shakes her head. She can't bear it. Tears running down her

face.

Back on his feet, Chang suddenly drops his guard. Julian hesitates,

confused. Chang leans in close to him. Winks.

Julian shrugs, puts his guard up.

Chang raises his arms again. Ready to fight. Julian gets ready

to attack but something's changed. The fire's gone out of him.

He looks over to his mother, to Mai, Chang's words echoing in

his mind.

It's not his fault.

Then Chang comes in with a flurry of punches. Left, right, left,

right. Julian just takes them...

Chang pauses in the onslaught. Julian stays motionless in the

middle of the ring.

Chang runs at him, flings his right foot, swivels, pulling out

a roundhouse left kick -

- which makes contact with Julian's draw.

SLOW MOTION as Julian's head takes the impact.

He's out cold before he hits the floor.

BLACK.

INT. CORRIDORS - NIGHT

Jenna hurries down the corridor. She reaches the dressing room

door. She's about to knock but she stops. She opens the door silently

and lets herself in.

INT. CHANGING ROOMS - NIGHT

Julian's sitting on the treatment table, his face covered in cuts

and bruises...

Jenna watches him in silence from the shadows, steadies her

breathing and then slips back out of the room.

INT. CORRIDORS - NIGHT

Jenna comes out of the changing rooms as Mai approaches. Jenna

shakes her head.

Mai is disappointed. Doesn't know what to say.

Jenna hugs Mai close.

INT. CHANGING ROOMS - NIGHT

Julian turns when he hears a knock at the door. Says nothing.

Jenna enters and closes the door behind her. She stands there

for a moment as if considering what to say...

He steps into the light. She reaches out to touch him.

Julian says nothing.

Slowly he shakes his head.

Julian studies his mother.

Beat.

Jenna starts crying. Could be real, could be an act - hard to

tell she's so good...

She shakes her head. Can't say it.

Beat. Jenna says nothing. Julian thinks... Cogs turn...

Jenna nods.

Jenna makes her hand into a pistol. Pretends to fire it into her

skull. She tried to have Chang killed. Julian's speechless.

Julian stares at his mother; fragile, terrified, alone.

Julian stares at his mother.

Julian begins to realize what he has to do... and he looks at

his hands. Finally...

Julian stares at her - the power she has over him...

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / KITCHEN - NIGHT

Chang, Nadee and Kanita are having a nice dinner - happy that

Chang won and enjoying each other's company in silence...

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / KANITA'S BEDROOM

Chang tucks in his daughter. Nadee watches from the doorway.

Kanita still has some dolls on her bed. He starts taking them

off. Notices one of them is broken.

Chang holds the broken princess' body. A sudden wave of fear washes

over him. A sense of doom.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / KITCHEN

Chang speaks on the phone.

He ends the call. Stares at his reflection in the window.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / MAIN BEDROOM - NIGHT

Chang gets into bed next to his wife. Switches off the light.

The two of them are bathed in moonlight. He holds his wife's hand.

INT. CAR - DAY

It's still early - the sun is only just starting to rise over

he city.

Charlie Ling's driving, Ko Sam beside him. Julian's in the back

street. His face is a mask, his eyes hidden by his sunglasses...

next to him is a silver shining motorcycle helmet.

IN. CHANG'S APARTMENT / KITCHEN - DAY

Chang is eating breakfast as he watches a western on TV.

EXT. THAI SHOPPING STREET - DAY

Nadee and Kanita walk through the various stalls buying groceries.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT - DAY

Chang is dressed - finishing putting on his tie - ready for the

day. He walks into his sitting room as he hears his mobile ring.

...and Chang hangs up... The Angel of Vengeance getting ready

to strike again.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Chang steps out of his apartment into the hallway where a uniformed

policeman sits on guard reading a Manga comic.

Li Hom nods. Chang leaves.

Chang turns.

Chang nods. Leaves.

INT. / EXT. CAR - DAY

The car's parked outside Gordon's apartment block. Gordon's not

shown. Julian's calling him...

Julian pauses. Can't believe it.

Julian's incredibly frustrated but hasn't got time to argue.

Julian kills his phone. He's still for a moment, then:

EXT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL - DAY

Chang and the Cops walk into the hotel. Chang heads for the elevators

while Kim approaches reception.

Chang calls the lift and waits. Kim comes back.

Chang nods. The elevator door opens.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Chang and the Cops are standing in the elevator waiting to get

off. Elevator music plays...

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT - DAY

Julian is walking around Chang's apartment... looking at all

family pictures... getting a sense of how they live.

He opens drawers and closets and studies all the photos of Chang

as a boxer and soldier.

...on a wall is a framed article in Thai that Charlie Ling is

reading.

Charlie starts reading the article out:

Charlie starts to sneer as he reads. Julian is listening intently.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Nadee and Kanita come out of the elevator and Nadee quickly sees

that police guard from before has been replaced by someone else

(Ko Sam)...

Ko Sam smiles...

Nadee looks at him suspiciously but enters the apartment with

Kanita. Ko Sam pretends to go back to reading his Manga comic.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / JENNA'S ROOM - DAY

Jenna sips tea from a China cup. She puts it back down on to her

saucer. Kim is sitting opposite her. Chang stands in the

background.

Jenna looks over to Chang.

Kim and the rest of the crew take this in.

Chang senses something. Starts to become agitated.

Chang stares at the door to the bedroom. Feels the presence of

someone the other side of the door.

Chang starts to push the door open...

Behind him Jenna stands up.

Before Chang fully opens the door, his mobile phone rings. It

sounds INCREDIBLY loud. He takes it out and looks at the display

with a feeling of dread.

He answers...

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / KITCHEN - DAY

Nadee is in the kitchen putting away the groceries as she is speaking

with Chang...

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / JENNA'S ROOM - DAY

Chang begins to panic. His eyes fall upon Jenna.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / KITCHEN

Nadee hear's Kanita call for her from the living room.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / JENNA'S ROOM - DAY

Chang screams down the phone:

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / KITCHEN - DAY

... But Nadee is holding the phone against her chest and can't

hear Chang as she walks into the living room...

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT / LIVING ROOM - DAY

... where Julian is sitting on the couch wearing the motorcycle

helmet, a shotgun on his lap.

Kanita is standing in the middle of the room, staring at Julian.

Charlie Ling leans against the opposite wall, a pistol in his

hand.

Nadee remains silent, trying to think fast.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / JENNA'S ROOM - DAY

Chang listens to the phone, knowing something's wrong.

Jenna stares at him, defiant. Their eyes lock briefly. But Chang

hasn't got time for this. He barges past her and out of the room.

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / CORRIDOR - DAY

The CAMERA TRACKS with Chang as he runs down the corridor in total

desperation.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

The CAMERA ZOOMS towards the main door.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT - DAY

CLOSE ON Nadee who stares at the main door then slowly turns back

to Julian. She knows they're trapped.

Beat.

But Kanita stands still - fear in her eyes.

And slowly Kanita walks towards her room as Charlie Ling watches

her... Kanita closes the door.

Beat - silence...

Julian stands up and walks toward Nadee - raises his shotgun and

blows her head off.

Blood spatters onto the wall, bits of brain and skull everywhere

as her body falls to the ground...

EXT. BANGKOK STREETS - DAY

Chang stops in his tracks. It's as if he can feel the shotgun

blast in his heart. He knows what's just happened... He stands

still. He closes his eyes as if he had only to wish to make it

all go away... He opens them again to see...

The street is completely deserted. Chang stands alone in the middle

of a ghost town.

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT - DAY

Julian takes off his helmet that's covered in blood, throws it

onto the floor and walks toward the front door.

Julian turns back. Charlie Ling nods towards Kanita's room.

Julian shakes his head.

Beat.

Charlie Ling nods.

Charlie Ling kicks open the door. Julian realises he can't let

him do it.

And as Charlie Ling sees Kanita... Julian shoots him in the back.

Charlie Ling slumps to the floor.

Julian approaches the doorway. He looks in. Sees Kanita sitting

on her bed. She stares at Julian, Charlie Ling's dead body at

his feet. They hold each other's gaze... and then Julian slowly

bows his head and leaves...

INT. CHANG'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Julian walks out of the apartment with the shotgun raised,

expecting to shoot Ko Sam...

But the hallway is empty...

EXT. BANGKOK STREETS - DAY

Julian stumbles out of the apartment, desperately catching his

breath. He ends up leaning on a stall - similar to the one he

knocked over outside Choi Yan Lee's kiosk. Candles and incense.

Buddha's smiling back at him...

Julian looks around him and again everything seems intense and

incredibly vibrant... A group of school children, all of whom

are Downs Syndrome, are crossing the road. Smiles plastered across

their faces... Julian stares at them... Their presence seems to

have a calming effect on him, as if they're giving him new energy

to do what he's starting to realize he has to do next.

INT. CHANG'S HOUSE - DAY

Chang stares at the body of his dead wife. Perfectly still. His

crew in the background...

INT. FOUR SEASON'S HOTEL / RECEPTION - DAY

Julian walks across towards the lift, the shotgun hidden inside

his shirt.

INT. LIFT - DAY

Lift music. Julian stands perfectly still in the lift as it goes

up... Just like Chang did before...

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

As Julian walks down the corridor he takes the shotgun out - holds

it out in front of him as if it were a sacred weapon...

He reaches the door to his mother's room and pauses.

Julian stares at the door as if it was heaven's gate... He loads

the shotgun with two fresh cartridges.

He rings the bell, raising the shotgun, ready to shoot. The door

- but it's Gordon who opens it, dressed in a bathrobe.

Confused, Julian continues to level the weapon at his head. Gordon

backs away into the room.

Julian says nothing. Edges into the room. The gun still pointed

at Gordon's head.

Julian says nothing. Kicks the door closed with his foot.

Finally Julian lowers the shotgun.

Julian sits down.

Julian mumbles to himself... then turns to Gordon. Realisation

dawning on him:

INT. POLICE STATION / INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY

Kanita sits in a chair, her father standing behind her. Very formal.

Kim is showing her various head shots of criminals...

Kanita shakes her head until Chang puts down a picture of Julian.

She looks up at her father - nods...

INT. CAR - DAY

Jenna gazes out of the window. She takes out her compact and adjusts

her make up.

EXT. BANGKOK - DAY

Jenna's taxi heads over the Mega Bridge, taking her away towards

the airport.

INT. UNDERGROUND CARPARK - DAY

Gordon and Julian walk towards Gordon's car, the sounds of their

footsteps ricocheting off the concrete walls.

Reaching the car, Gordon stands by the driver's door as Julian

heads for the passenger's side.

Gordon pauses before unlocking the door. Looks over to Julian,

talking across the roof of the car.

Beat. Julian's instantly suspicious...

Gordon levels a pistol at Julian's head.

GUNSHOT. A bullet RIPS through Julian's shoulder. He falls back

on the car behind him setting off a chorus of car alarms.

Gordon starts to walk round to deliver the killer blow.

Julian looks at the wound. It's deep but he's not totally

incapacitated. He pulls the shotgun out from under his shirt.

It clatters to the floor.

Julian sinks to his knees, leaning over to pick up the shotgun.

He's got seconds...

Gordon turns the corner - but Julian's in position. Two shots

in quick succession. Both barrels fired at Gordon's chest.

The force of the explosion FLINGS Gordon's body against the far

wall of the car park. Dead instantly.

Julian pulls himself up and stands there, the smoking shotgun

acting as a makeshift crutch. He gazes at Gordon's steaming corpse,

appalled by the turn of events...

EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAY

Julian falls out into a side street. He's badly wounded but he's

going to make it...

INT. TOILET - DAY

Julian takes the top off a vodka bottle with his teeth. He pours

the spirit over his wound. It stings like hell and Julian screams

in agony.

EXT. BANGKOK STREETS - DUSK

Julian walks out into the night, the neon glow turning the streets

into a modern day Hades....

Although the wound isn't life threatening, Julian's face is pale

from the loss of blood. He looks like a ghost.

He sees two cops chatting on a street corner. They don't see him,

they're not even looking for him, but they remind him. Chang.

It's just a matter of time...

Julian keeps walking. Wipes sweat from his face. Looking for a

place to hide. A hole in the ground. Anything.

Then suddenly it comes to him. A single idea. A possible way of

escape...

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

A series of napkins are rolled and placed in a steadily growing

pile.

The work is being carried out by Mai who has a lowly position

in a massive and sterile industrial kitchen. Not the sort of life

she planed on having...

A Co-Worker calls out to her...

Mai finishes the last napkin and places it on the pile. She walks

towards the exit, passing her Co-Worker...

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Mai comes from round a corner and sees Julian leaning against

the wall. She checks that they're alone, knowing instinctively

that he's in trouble.

Beat. Julian almost smiles.

He winces.

A pause.

Mai stares at him.

Julian looks at her.

Mai and Julian smile at each other. It's sweet. Innocent.

Mai looks around - they're alone.

INT. / EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Julian watches as Mai comes into the Restaurant from the kitchen

and walks over to the bar area...

Making sure no one's watching, Mai starts to pull money out of

the til...

Julian looks over at the shop front next to him... A Travel Agency.

Pictures of holidays and beaches. Paradise. It all seems in his

grasp.

Mai comes up to him...

INT. TAXI - NIGHT

Mai and Julian are in the Taxi. He puts his arm around her. They're

on their way...

EXT. THAI BOXING CLUB - NIGHT

The taxi pulls up outside Juilan's club.

INT. TAXI - NIGHT

Julian gets out of the taxi.

Mai nods.

Julian nods and slams the door shut. Mai watches Juilan disappear

into the building.

INT. THAI BOXING CLUB - NIGHT

We PAN THROUGH Julian's empty club. It's silent and empty like

a tomb...

We PICK UP Julian as he hurries through towards his office.

INT. BACK ROOM - NIGHT

Back where we first met him...

Julian flings open the door to his safe and starts pulling wads

of money into a canvas hold all.

He's about to leave when he notices someone standing in the shadows

behind him.

Slowly, out of the darkness, a series of figures appear like

vampires... Chang and the Cops. Impossible to say how long they've

been standing there...

Chang and Julian stare at each other...

We TRACK IN to a CLOSE SHOT on Julian. It's almost as if this

moment was inevitable.

EXT. THAI BOXING CLUB - NIGHT

Chang brings Julian out of the club. A police car is waiting outside.

Mai sits in the back seat.

EXT. BANGKOK - NIGHT

The police car drives through the city streets and onto the freeway

heading out of town.

INT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT

Daeng is driving. Kim sits next to him. Daeng looks into the rearview

mirror to see--

Julian and Mai sitting next to Chang. Mai looks scared... Julian

more accepting of his fate...

EXT. BANGKOK - NIGHT

The Police Car heads over the Mega Bridge and continues its way

out of town.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

They all sit in the car in silence.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAWN

The Police Car pulls up.

EXT. FIELD - NIGHT

Chang leads Juilan across the field. The Cops follow a few steps

behind with Mai.

Suddenly, and completely unexpectedly, Chang punches Julian in

the gut... Julian falls to the floor and Chang starts to viciously

attack him, punching and kicking him.

Finally Julian, unable to defend himself, is lying on the ground,

immobile.

Julian rolls over. Eyes Chang. Slowly he starts to get up onto

his knees. They continue, Chang forcing Julian to crawl as they

make their way further into the field.

Then Chang stops...

Julian struggles to get up to his feet, but before he does, Chang

kicks him hard in the chest, sending him back down to the floor.

He kicks him in the stomach.

Chang kicks him again - like you would kick a dog... Juilan groans.

Chang squats down next to him.

Chang gets up and walks on. He stops and turns round.

Julian stumbles to his feet. The party continue. We see that one

of the crew is carrying an axe.

EXT. FIELD / HIGH POINT - DAWN

A couple of wild dogs watch as our group reach a high point.

Chang looks down at Julian who is lying on the ground. The crew

stand in the background with Mai.

Chang sits next to Julian.

A beat as Julian struggles to understand Chang's question... Chang

stares at him.

Beat.

Chang looks at him in a strange way - like this answer has some

meaning for him.

Julian shakes he's head.

Chang considers this answer for a long moment. He gets up and

returns to Mai - stares at her....

Mai just stares at him - too frightened to move.

Mai nods.

Chang smiles at her.

Mai turns and leaves. Chang watches her disappear into the field.

Chang takes the axe off Phaiban and turns back to Julian.

EXT. FIELD - DAWN

Mai walks through the field, alone.

EXT. FIELD / HIGH POINT - DAWN

Chang leans down next to Julian and whispers something into

Julian's ear - so softly that we cannot hear it. Whatever it says

it instantly has an effect on Julian. He visibly relaxes.

He doesn't make a sound as he's held down. A plastic strap is

tied around his arm as a tourniquet. His arm is pulled out.

Chang swings the axe and chops off first his left hand and then

his right.

Julian grits his teeth throughout. Doesn't scream.

Chang picks up the severed hands and throws them to the wild dogs.

The dogs tear into the meat, fighting over their prize.

EXT. FIELD - DAWN

Chang and his men walk back towards the car.

MUSIC KICKS IN once again... the Karaoke version of John Denver's

country and western ballad...

EXT. BANGKOK - DAY

We see various scenes of every day life in Bangkok.

EXT. SCHOOL - DAY

We see kids waiting outside the school for their parents to pick

them up. Kanita spots Chang, runs towards him and they embrace.

Chang and Kanita disappear into a crowd of policemen.

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

Chang is in his element. Singing like a cowboy.

The Cops sit and watch him. Their leader... Their God...

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Julian is lying in hospital. Bandages covering the terrible wounds

where his hands once were.

Mai is sitting beside him. Spoon feeding him food.

EXT. HEATHROW AIRPORT - DAY

An aeroplane lands.

INT. CUSTOMS - DAY

Jenna is in the process of being strip searched by the authorities.

Zero dignity.

As one of the Custom's Officers puts on a rubber glove, Jenna

starts to scream out obscenities at them. Mask off, a real monster

underneath, flailing around for all to see.

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

Chang keeps singing.

And we end CLOSE on Chang. With the sense that the 'country roads'

have kind of taken both of them home...

