Alike rolls her eyes at her sister's closed door and shrugs

into her room.

Alike rushes to shove her stuffed backpack under the bed.

She tosses her shoes in the closet just as her mother, AUDREY

appears in the doorway.

Alike peels off her socks and slumps on the bed.

Audrey gets cozy in the doorjamb.      Alike turns her back on

her and slumps into pajamas.

Alike winds the princess shirt around her fist and launches

to the top of the closet.

Audrey stiffens and pulls her robe tighter. Vinegar replaces

honey in her demeanor as the warmth drains out of her voice.

Alike snags a satin headscarf from the nightstand and slaps

it around her head.

Audrey leaves. Alike is still. She listens for the door to

her parent's room to shut before snatching off the scarf and

storming to the bathroom.

Alike turns on the faucet, wets the soap and puts it back in

the dish, wets her wash cloth and puts it back on the rack.

She plops down on the toilet and looks up. A crucifix frowns

down at her from the wall.

She averts her eyes and stands to leave.

Alike wets her toothbrush and throws it back into the holder.

Alike squeezes out a dollop of toothpaste and smears a little

around the sink. She stares at her reflection.

Alike flicks water droplets at the mirror for good measure.

Alike, bundled in an oversized hoodie edges up to the

perimeter of campus and waits against a bus shelter. STUDENTS

horseplay and mill about the entrance in groups, chugging

their morning Fantas and munching on snack cakes. The school

bell rings and the lawn slowly empties into the building.

Alike shifts her weight and checks her watch as the last

STRAGGLERS finally trickle in. She yanks her hoodie tighter

and launches across the lawn and into the building.

A second school bell sounds and the din of slamming lockers

and jubilant chatter dies to a hush as students shuffle into

classrooms. Alike cracks the back stairwell door and peeks

out into the mostly empty hallway before tearing for the

bathroom. One last straggler BINA, a 17 year-old girl with

mature, but down-to-earth good looks rushes past Alike. The

two exchange a brief, confused look then mutually dismiss

each other as they hurry in opposite directions.

Alike hurtles into the handicapped stall and snaps it shut

behind her. She rips off her hoodie and the "girly" shirt

beneath and flings them to the floor. She pulls out a pair of

wife-beaters from her bag and pulls them over her head. She

unwads a polo shirt and yanks it over her head.

She stares at her reflection in the window and tries

unsuccessfully to smooth her shirt. Her eyes scour her

reflection again and again for any imperfections. She spots

the earrings and yanks them out of her ears. The late bell

beckons and Alike stuffs her "feminine" clothes into her

backpack and bolts.

The MATH TEACHER glides up and down the aisles passing out

graded tests. A chorus of groans follows in her wake.

Alike is folded into the backmost corner of the classroom.

The desks in front her and beside her are empty. She is

ignored as the rest of the class chatters and passes notes.

The math teacher puts Alike's test on her desk and gives her

a little smile. Alike doesn't smile back.

The lunch bell rings and the class is a tornado, clearing the

room in a rush of limbs, shouts, and backpacks. Alike jabs

her headphones into her ears and packs her bag very

deliberately, letting the eye of the storm pass over her

before heading toward the door.

The cafeteria is a whirl of activity and social jockeying.

Clusters of girls and boys loud-talk, flirt, fight and

horseplay at tables and in tight little groups against the

walls. Alike walks alone, staying at the fringes of the crowd

and shrugs through the cafeteria line.

Alike flees the cafeteria, tray laden with rubbery cuisine of

dubious nutritional value. She raps on the door of a

classroom and slips in.

MRS. ALVARADO, a middle aged Californian ex-hippie type

reclines with her feet on her desk, munching on celery sticks

and sunflower seed paste. Her small desk radio plays

alternative rock. Sun beams into the empty classroom and

Alike squints as she yanks the headphones out of her ears and

pulls up a chair next to her desk.

Alike hands over her purple and white composition book. Mrs.

Alvarado thumbs the pages, reading silently.

Mrs. Alvarado flips to the back of the book and her mouth

moves silently as she reads.

Mrs. Alvarado hands the book back to Alike and digs in to

another celery stick.

Alike frowns through the pages of the composition book.

Alike slumps back into her seat and considers the book's

cover.

Audrey is a heat-seeking missile, whipping through the sparse

hallways of the trauma wing, her clipboard and pen in

constant motion. NURSES and AIDES scatter in her wake,

suddenly busying themselves with little bits of chore work to

avoid her caustic gaze. She barks at a cluster of CLERKS chit-

chatting in the elevator bank and all but one manage to

escape. Audrey drills her.

The clerk skitters off red-faced, and Audrey looks daggers

into her back before storming the break room.

Audrey whisks her lunch bag out of the fridge and heads

toward a table. A few lounging AIDES wad up their garbage and

flee the break room. Audrey settles down at the table and

pulls a fashion magazine from her work tote, pretending not

to be hurt. She peels open a cup of vanilla yogurt and begins

reading. A big red department store bag sits next to her work

tote. The television suspended over the table mumbles

corporate healthcare infomercials. MRS. SINGLETARY, one of

Audrey's co-workers swoops in and plops a plastic grocery bag

on the table across from her.

Audrey's steely exterior melts away and suddenly she is all

butterflies and giggles. She rifles through the bag and

hoists out a pink ribbed v-neck sweater.

Audrey, Sharonda, Alike, and their father, ARTHUR, 40-

something with a used-to-be athletic build, are all gathered

around the dinner table for a rare family dinner. Everyone

takes half-hearted nibbles at their food avoiding eye contact

with each other. Sharonda picks at her food.

Alike elbows Sharonda.

The phone rings and Arthur beats a path to bedroom to get it.

Audrey wilts.

Audrey stares after him then glares back at Alike and

Sharonda.

Alike casts a glance in the direction of the bedroom, where

Arthur can be heard talking in hushed tones. She rolls her

eyes and slinks down into her seat.

Arthur settles back into his chair, his mood a little

brighter. Seeing an opportunity for brownie points, Sharonda

pitches in.

Alike smirks and takes her plate to the sink. Arthur jabs her

on the arm as she walks by. Audrey tears into a dinner roll

shooting daggers at anyone who dares to make eye contact.

Laura brings a steaming cup of Ramen noodles to a worn

kitchen table splayed with bills. Her older sister CANDACE,

a stout 30 something with pleasant but hard-working looks

scribbles notes on the back of an envelope while soaking her

feet. Laura takes a sip of her soup and starts sifting

through a pile of envelopes.

Candace pecks on a calculator and scribbles on the envelope.

Laura flips through more bills.

Laura locks her hands on top of her head and leans back in

her chair, surveying the financial carnage.

Candace smiles wanly and sips her soup. She takes a foot out

of the water and kneads it.

Alike slams into her usual stall and launches into her

`Superman' changing routine. She unrolls pulls a jersey from

her backpack and yanks it over her head.

Alike sits off to one side of the stairs, headphoned into

oblivion and scribbling into her composition book. A group of

FAST GIRLS strut by and encamp on the opposite wall, giggling

and yakking on cell phones. One of the girls, MIKA cuts a

flirty smile at Alike. Alike turns away and buries herself in

her book, but cranks down the volume on her iPod.

Alike's ears prick up.

Heeeey.                           What's up?

The girls erupt into titters, and they melt into

conversation. Alike deflates, watching them over the top of

her book. She observes every little moment between the girls

and the boy, every wink. Another BOY joins the group and they

stroll off down the sidewalk.

Alike plucks the headphones out of her ears, watching them

leave. Mika casts a parting glance over her shoulder at

Alike. Remnant's of Alike's grin return reflexively. Mika's

friend jerks her elbow around.

Umm hmm !                         I can't tell!

Alike waits for them to disappear from view before snatching

up her bag and bolting in the opposite direction.

Laura hoists a box of french fries onto her shoulder and

moves inside the restaurant.

Alike hefts up a box and follows Laura back into the

restaurant.

Alike stares at herself in a floor length bedroom mirror in

her underwear.

A peach-colored dildo dangles stiffly from Alike's waist.

The harness bunches her boxers in clumsy tufts. Alike

appraises the racially inappropriate apparatus and shoots

Laura a look.

Alike frowns at the dildo in profile.

Alike yanks at the harness and her boxers trying to pull it

out of her bottom.

Audrey fixes Laura with another hard glance and shoos

Sharonda down the hallway. Laura starts to shut the door, but

Audrey stops it with her arm.

Audrey lingers, looking back and forth between Laura and

Alike. Alike frowns at her mother.

Satisfied that the conversation is over, Audrey moves off

toward her room. Laura checks to make sure she's gone and

whispers to Alike.

Alike squirms in her seat.

Alike tugs at her crotch and attempts to cross her legs.

Alike uncrosses her legs and yanks at her jeans. Laura bats

her hand away.

A group of girls approaches, one of them we recognize as

Mika, the girl that likes Alike, from the bathroom. Laura

stands to greet them. Nervous introductions all around. Laura

shoots Alike a warning glance.

Laura is hugged up with two girls at the end of the couch.

Alike fidgets in her seat and keeps pulling at the knees of

her jeans. Mika hand in chin, stares into space. Alike does

another pull-fidget combo. Mika rolls her eyes at her.

Mika sighs and looks around at the other dancing couples.

Alike gives her jeans another tortured tug. Agonized minutes

of awkward booming silence.

Mika escapes the couch and disappears into the crowd.

Alike slips off her shoes and eases through the kitchen.

Audrey flicks on the light, blocking the hallway entrance.

Alike peels off her jeans and lobs them into the top of her

closet. She unharnesses the dildo and wads the tangled mess

up in an old t-shirt. She stuffs the wad in back of the

closet and slams the closet door shut, staring at her

reflection in the mirror.

Alike reconsiders and yanks the wad back from the closet.

Alike stuffs the wad into a trash bag and plunges it deep

into a neighbor's garbage can. She scurries back into her

building and doesn't look back.

Alike skulks on the couch in wrinkled khaki pants and a

cotton button down shirt. An obnoxious R&B video plays on the

TV. Sounds of bustling and the drone of a hair dryer fill the

room.

Alike turns the television volume to low and continues

watching.

Audrey hobbles out with one high heel on. She snatches the

remote from Alike and snaps the TV off.

The front door bursts open, and Arthur tromps in, his police

uniform hanging open over a white undershirt. He slings a

heavy F.O.P tote bag on the floor and strips off his shirt as

he crosses to the kitchen. Audrey rushes over and buzzes

around him.

Audrey scuttles over to where Arthur is now digging through

the open fridge. He pulls out a foil covered plate, tears

open one corner, sniffs it.

Arthur heads toward the microwave with the plate. Audrey

intercepts the plate from him and dumps the contents into a

skillet.

Alike spins into the living room defeated.

Arthur slams his fork on the plate. Audrey flinches. Alike

looks up. Sharonda appears in the doorway, looking from

Audrey to Arthur.

Arthur pushes up from the table.

Arthur disappears into the bedroom. Alike snatches up her

bible and launches out the door, Sharonda follows. Audrey

pulls on her sunglasses and hat and slams the door behind

her.

Alike sits in the passenger seat of the car as Audrey chit

chats with other churchgoers. Sharonda sits in the back

seat, flipping through a CD case and occasionally passing

CD's to Alike to play. Alike faces stonily forward except to

cast impatient glances in Audrey's direction. Audrey raps on

the window.

Alike cracks the window an inch.

Alike retreats into the car, Sharonda hops in behind her.

Alike reaches over and turns the key in the ignition.

Alike toots the horn. Audrey circles and gets in the driver's

side.

Audrey cranks the ignition and starts to back out.

An invisible scab is ripped open in Alike and the fire dies

in her eyes. Satisfied, Audrey slips the car into gear.

Alike wilts against the window and tacky zydeco music leaks

from the car as it jerks away from the curb and into traffic.

Alike strides down the sidewalk.   Bina speedwalks to keep up.

Bina stops short.   Alike keeps walking.

Alike doesn't miss a step.    Bina yells after her.

Alike stops short. Bina crosses the street and continues in

the direction away from school. Alike spins around scanning

the street, then catches sight of her on the opposite

sidewalk.

Bina keeps on pushing, the school now in sight.

Alike's cell phone chirps--it's Laura.    Alike sighs and

stuffs the phone back into her pocket.

Laura snaps her cell phone shut. A GED study book still

glossy and uncreased is propped open on the bed in front of

her. She opens her cell phone again and pulls up Alike's

number. Her thumb hovers over the `talk' button. She snaps

the phone shut and tosses it aside before turning the radio

down and dragging the book closer. The cell phone rings and

she snatches it up. A picture of a girl making a kissy face

with the name "Tasha" underneath blinks onto the screen and

Laura snaps the phone shut and tosses it aside. She hoists

the GED book into her lap and lets her head hit the wall.

There is a knock at her bedroom door and Candace peeks in.

Candace smiles at Laura and hesitates before closing the

door. Candace turns the radio off before ducking back out.

Laura sighs and flips back to the beginning of the book.

Alike and Arthur cavort in a sloppy half-court game in the

fluorescent glare of the gym. Well-heeled clientele cross to

and fro munching power bars and sipping Gatorade. Arthur has

an awful shot, but Alike's is worse. Alike heaves a huge

airball past the basket.

Alike cracks up as Arthur chases down the ball.

Alike rushes to guard Arthur who dribbles clumsily around the

key. He tries a crossover move and lobs an ugly shot toward

the basket.

Laughing, they tussle over the rebound. Arthur recovers.

Giggling, the pair rollick in another squeaky-shoed play.

MACK, the store proprietor leans against the counter flipping

through a newspaper. Arthur, in uniform mulls through the

sports section. A ratty looking man, SOCK sips from a red

plastic cup.

Mack cranks the volume on the tiny television above the

counter.

Arthur snorts and flings Sock loose.

Mack sweeps Sock's plastic cup off the counter and into a

garbage can. Sock tromps to the door.

Mack playfully jabs him in the shoulder and bustles

underneath the counter. Arthur's eyes linger on the door and

his jaw tightens.

Laura swings through the front door of her apartment, Alike

close behind. She slides two twenty dollar bills underneath

the ceramic hen on the table and breezes into her bedroom.

Alike is a paper doll in Laura's floor length mirror, dressed

only in boxers and a wife beater. Laura holds a bright orange

polo shirt up in front of Alike's torso. Alike cocks her head

to the side and considers.

Laura crosses to her closet and scans its inventory. The

jeans are arranged crisply on hangers from light to dark and

some still have store tags. Most of the shirts are still

enclosed in protective plastic covers from the dry cleaners.

Laura passes Alike a perfectly folded button down shirt.

Alike holds the shirt against her torso and stares at her

reflection. She catches Laura's eager look in the mirror and

wilts.

Laura holds a new pair of jeans against her body and does a

little dance. Alike laughs wanly.

Audrey sits between Alike's knees as Alike oils her scalp.

Alike takes her time, massaging each braid between her hands

before moving to the next. Audrey reads an Essence magazine,

the cover of which reads "101 Ways to Please Your Man."

Alike catches her mother's eye in the mirror's reflection,

they share a sad moment. Audrey closes the magazine and

tosses it back onto the bed.

Bina sits on the floor, flipping through CD's. Alike sits in

a chair, head in hand, completely disinterested.

Alike plops back down in her chair.

Audrey smooths a pink sticky note onto a foil covered plate

and shoves it into the fridge. The doorbell rings and she

rushes across the room and opens the door in her most sing-

song voice.

Audrey starts to close the door.   Laura stops it with her

hand.

Audrey shuts the door harder than necessary. Laura checks her

phone and shakes her head.

Alike is bobbing her head, backpack forgotten on her

shoulder. Bina cranks the volume down.

Alike slings her backpack to the floor and pulls the CD book

into her lap. Her cell phone rings and she ignores it.

The pier is a parade of mohawks, curly weaves, tight jeans,

and rainbow belts as groups of baby dykes, young queens, and

gender queer youth of all shades of brown stroll cavort, and

strut seeing and wanting to be seen. Equally bedecked

observers hoot and yell from bench and rail perches on both

sides. Laura jabs numbers into her cell phone. Competing

threads of house music throb across the boardwalk in muffled

bursts as groups of ballers vogue and prance behind her.

Laura yanks her phone away from her ear and looks at the

screen. She starts to hang up but pulls it back to her ear.

Alike and Bina are sprawled in the floor. Bina DJ's from her

laptop.

Alike hands her the flyer. Bina laughs and tosses it back.

Laura scowls at her cell phone screen. She shoves the phone

in her pocket and pulls her hoodie up against the chill of

the evening. Brake lights bathe Laura and her circle of AG's

in red as late-night predators cruise the strip for fresh

meat. Laura catches sight of shady sexual encounters in an

alley across the street and looks away. One of the entourage

passes Laura a joint and she inhales deeply. A few of the

girls have backpacks and the group is pensive as they break

off and scatter into the night one by one.

Laura nods and spits.

AP English class is a safe haven. The desks are pulled

together in a rough circle and are filled with heavily

pierced, dyed hair, and vintage clothes types. Mrs. Alvarado

sits cross-legged atop her desk taking notes. Alike stands at

the center of the circle reciting an original poem.

The class claps.

A forest of hands go up as Alike winds her way back to her

seat. A few classmates whisper brief encouragements. Bina

nods and smiles at Alike. Unguarded, Alike smiles back.

Bina and Alike troop home at a more leisurely pace. Alike

breaks the silence for once.

Bina stops.

Alike looks up at the stoop, surprised.

Alike looks away.

Alike sits on Bina's twin bed, looking around and really

taking in the room for the first time. She reaches over and

picks up a little molded soldier figure off of the shelf.

Bina fishes around in a rack of CDs.

Alike holds the figurine out, Bina looks at it over her

shoulder.

Bina opens a CD case and pulls the booklet out.

Beaming with her victory, Alike busies herself with the

journal. Bina recruits a small stuffed moose for her next

foray. She dances the moose up Alike's arm and plants an

exaggerated peck on her cheek with it.

The girls erupt into renewed giggles. Bina tosses the stuffed

animal aside and scoots closer to read over Alike's shoulder.

Bina studies Alike's profile. She leans in and pecks Alike on

the cheek. Alike lets the kiss soak in, glancing at Bina

sidelong. Bina leans in again, this time planting a long kiss

on Alike's lips. Alike pulls away. Bina tenses for the

verdict.

Alike blindly grabs up her things and rushes the door, Bina

flounders in her wake.

Laura and a group of friends play a rowdy game of spades. A

cute Puerto Rican girl is draped around Laura's neck like a

PERSONAL CHEERLEADER. Music blasts from the TV but doesn't

drown out the hoots and banter of the rollicking entourage.

There is a knock at the door.

More raucous laughter from the table. Alike endures another

few moments of card slapping, table pounding dejection before

leaning into Laura's ear.

Wide-eyed silence and scattered snickers around the table.

Laura resumes her hand and the game banter cranks back up.

Alike picks up her face and slips away.

Laura slaps another card on the table and takes a deep swig

of water.

Audrey lies awake in bed. The clock on the nightstand

indicates a little past two in the morning. She looks at the

sliver of light underneath the bedroom door, the sound of

Arthur's key in the door breaks the silence. Arthur's voice

in hushed tones. Audrey rolls over and faces the wall.

Alike watches her father's footsteps break up the light

beneath her door. She tosses off her blankets and springs

into the hallway.

She is talking to empty air. She eases down the hallway

toward the kitchen and the sound of his muffled voice.

Alike stops short outside the kitchen door, confused.

Alike swings around the corner.

Arthur flips his cell phone shut and tucks it into his

pocket. He fishes a beer out of the fridge.

Arthur sips his beer and walks over to the kitchen table. A

foil covered plate with a little pink sticky note waits.

Arthur crumples the sticky note and tosses it into the trash

without reading it. He peels up one side of the foil, peeks

at the food underneath, and launches it into the trash, too.

Arthur strips off his dress shirt and tie and flings them

into the living room.

Arthur picks up his work tote and kisses Alike on the

forehead.

Laura jams a pillow into a t-shirt as a makeshift pillowcase

as she escorts one of the pier girls to the couch. The pier

girl looks slightly unkempt and is relieved to plop her

knapsack on the floor. Laura tosses the pillow onto the

couch.

Laura pulls up close to the kitchen table. The GED test prep

book, now dog-eared and worn is on the table in front of her.

She finds her place and copies notes and multiple choice

answers into a spiral notebook. A stack of old Math and

English textbooks are in a chair next to her and the room is

peaceful and still save for the scratching of her pencil.

Alike spies on Bina stuffing books into her locker. She draws

her breath and approaches.

Arthur coaches Alike as she navigates the car to a jerky stop

in front of Mack's liquor store.

Arthur rubs his chest in mock heart-attack.

Arthur hands Alike a five dollar bill and she bounces down

out of the car.

Arthur shouts a greeting to Mack who lounges on a plastic

chair outside his door. Sock and TWO OTHER MEN chit chat

nearby. Their chatter lowers as Arthur approaches. Alike bops

into the store.

Arthur claps Mack on the shoulder and glimpses Sock

whispering to one of the men.

Arthur follows the men's gazes over to Alike at the potato

chip rack. She twirls the string of her basketball shorts

round and round her finger and idly hikes the collar of her t-

shirt up over her nose. The smile evaporates from Arthur's

face.

Sock peers back at him, smirking. Arthur starts toward him,

when Alike saunters out between them.

Arthur crosses the lot in a bound, snatches the car keys from

Alike's hand, and hustles her into the car.

Alike frowns, then catches sight of the men in front of the

store. She slumps into the car and slams the door. Arthur

piles into the driver's seat. They sit in silence for a

moment, Alike traces the lines in her hands.

Alike avoids eye contact, staring out her window. Arthur

searches her face a moment longer, then starts the car and

pulls away in silence.

Audrey reclines on the couch reading a book. The doorknob

jiggles and Audrey folds the book against her chest,

pretending to be asleep.

--I'm telling you she's just    Well I guess I better not

fine!!                          have nothing else to say

Audrey jerks to her feet and flings the book aside.

Audrey slaps the sandwich off Arthur's plate and storms to

the bedroom. Arthur sees Sharonda peeking from her bedroom

door but can't summon any words. Sharonda skitters into

Alike's bedroom.

Alike is awake, hands folded behind her head. Sharonda curls

up on top of the covers next to her.

The girls lay silently as they listen to Arthur bang around

in the kitchen.

Alike rubs Sharonda's head and gives her a little squeeze.

A MOHAWKED WOMAN yowls into a microphone atop a coffee table

turned stage. Kids roam from room to room nursing plastic

cups. Some in elaborate ensembles, some in thrift store duds,

others in plain old jeans, but no two people the same. Alike

clad in simple shirt and jeans looks especially comfortable

as she and Bina ease their way through the crowd. In between

performers, guitar riffs rock the large loft apartment and

render their voices practically inaudible.

MONTAGE:

--Bina introduces Alike to different people, Alike is

welcomed

--Alike & Bina point out different performers, they laugh and

talk in each other's ears

--Alike and Bina dance wildly in the middle of the crowd,

surrounded by dozens of other clamorous bodies

--One performer beckons Alike up onto the table, Alike demurs

at first, then leaps on top of the table. Bina cheers.

--Alike drags a giggling Bina out of the party and they crash

into the open night

Lights glisten across the Hudson River--distant orbs

reflected in a thousand shimmering faux stars in weak

defiance against the night sky. A sodium vapor glow veils

everything in generous haloes, making the night more

beautiful than it really is.

Dancing silhouettes, laughing, playing, yelling, flying,

always dancing silhouettes punctuate the summer breeze with

clapping set to the rhythm of soulful house. Like Puck on a

midsummer's night, like Peter Pan and his lost boys. Among

the silhouettes is Laura, enthroned atop a railing. Laura,

smoking a joint grandly, surrounded by an adoring circle, a

sycophantic harem of four.

Laura, completely miserable as she watches two other

silhouettes drawing closer, spinning, collapsing, now

righting, always connected. Alike and Bina. Bina smiles and

snakes her arms around Alike's neck. Alike too shy to react,

giggles and folds. Laura watches the pair spin and passes to

the left before stalking off toward the connected shadows.

Laura cuffs Alike on the neck, pulling Alike's hoodie up over

her face. Alike's laugh is tentative at first, not sure

whether this is play or for real. Laura chuckles, breaking

the ice. The pair slapbox and rough house, both missing with

wild arcing blows. Laura aims a mini charge at Alike that

lifts her off the ground and deposits her a short distance

away. Alike swipes Laura's hat. Laura claps Alike on the

shoulder and Alike waves to Bina. Bina waves and smiles.

Laura looks around and shrugs. Laura plucks a fresh joint out

of her coat and lights it.

Laura takes a puff and offers it to Alike.

Alike waves it off, oblivious and intoxicated with the night.

Laura stops walking and Alike skips ahead, still chattering.

Alike snaps out of it.

Laura gives Bina a polite hug, pounds Alike on the shoulder

and starts to lead Mika away.

Byyeee!!                           Hey hold up!

Laura pumps a lazy    fist in the air in acknowledgement. Bina

takes Alike's hand    and slowly drags her away. Alike keeps

looking back, then    finally gives up. Laura looks back just as

Alike turns around    and disappears around the corner.

Music videos play on the TV. Alike and Bina lay stretched out

on pillows, a plate of brownie crumbs between them. Alike

dozes. Bina smacks her with a pillow.

Alike rubs sleep out of her eyes and props herself up on one

elbow.

Bina flicks off the TV and stares at Alike.

Alike looks away.

Alike folds her arms behind her head. Bina strokes Alike's

stomach. Her finger's dance at the top of Alike's pajama

bottoms. Their eyes meet. Alike sits bolt upright.

Alike leans in and kisses Bina on the lips. Bina considers

and takes Alike's chin in her hand and kisses her back. Bina

places Alike's hand on her chest. Alike lets her hand linger,

then traces Bina's shoulders.

Laura stands over the kitchen table shuffling through the

mail. She pauses at a stiff envelope with her name on it. The

return address reads "NYS Educational & Testing Services".

She flips the envelope over and looks around, she rips the

top off and eases the top of a slip out of the envelope. The

top of the slip reads "'Campbell, Laura' GED TESTING

RESULTS."

Laura shifts her weight on a painted concrete porch outside a

small wooden frame home. The paint is peeling and the flowers

in the window-box are dead. A rusted metal mailbox next to

the door overflows with circulars. Laura lifts the circulars

out of the box and trashes them. She picks up a discarded

fast food bag and tosses it too. A dog barks from a

neighboring yard. Laura pulls open the screen door and tries

to peer in through the diamond shaped window in the main

door, but it's covered over in aluminum foil. More barking.

Laura surveys the street and bangs hard on the door. She

snaps the screen door back and takes a big step backward.

Laura shifts her weight and smooths her shirt. LAURA'S

MOTHER, 54, and no-nonsense opens the door and frowns down at

Laura through the screen.

Laura's mother crosses her arms and looks at Laura up and

down.

Laura backs off the porch and starts down the walkway. She

stops halfway and bounds back onto the porch. She yanks the

envelope out of the mailbox and jams it into her pocket.

Laura storms off the porch and out of yard, never looking

back.

Alike is asleep on the bed. Bina cleans up feverishly,

"accidentally" bumping Alike awake. Alike yawns and rolls

over, a huge grin spreading across her face as she remembers

her surroundings.

Bina bolts to the dresser and crams clothes in.

Bina deposits an armful of clothes into the dirty clothes

hamper, and then begins making the bed with Alike still in

it. Alike pulls Bina down beside her.

Bina snatches a pillow from behind Alike and fluffs it.

Alike, still oblivious, grins and traces Bina's shoulder.

Alike beelines for the front door. Bina chases Alike across

the room.

Alike wipes a sleeve across her swelling eyes and running

nose and turns to face her. Bina takes several steps toward

her. Alike lets go of the doorhandle, her voice cracks.

Alike rages outside, weaving blind fury down the sidewalk.

She kicks over a cluster of garbage cans and cyclones out

into the street, narrowly missing getting hit by a car. She

continues her zag to the other sidewalk, her pace quickening.

She rips open her backpack and launches a baseball cap into

the air. She tears a handful of wifebeaters from the bag and

flings them into the street. Spinning and thrashing she

wrenches out a football jersey and jams it into another

garbage can. She circles back and kicks the can over. She

hurtles her backpack into the trees like a discus and sheds

her hoodie like a skin before disappearing into the scream of

a subway station.

Lee bursts into the living room and charges to her bedroom.

Audrey, who has been waiting in the living room storms in

after her.

Alike kicks off her shoes and paces the room.

Audrey gasps in stunned silence.

Audrey melts back against the doorjamb. Alike slings off her

shirt and slams the door in Audrey's face. A livid Audrey

bangs on the door and jiggles the handle.

Alike attacks her closet, ripping all the "girly" shirts from

the hangers and hurling them toward a small vanity trashcan.

She plunges back in and slams an armful of blouses to the

floor. She launches a pair of pumps into the wall, followed

by a chunky pair of Timberlands. Silent sobs rack her body as

she tears off her own shirt and slings it at the mirror. She

strips off her jeans and kicks them brutally into a corner.

Alike considers her unclothed form in the mirror before

collapsing onto the bed. She writhes against the pillows and

covers her eyes with her elbow as darts of grief twist

through her body. Blackout.

Alike jerks awake in her bed, a pillow pulled down around her

ears. The sound of a muffled argument leaks from her

parents's bedroom. The shouting gets louder, and Alike sits

upright in her bed as her father's footsteps boom past her

doorway and into the living room. Audrey's voice trails him

down the hallway, and Alike scrambles into a t-shirt and

shorts.

Arthur's hand is on the doorknob, a small tote flung over his

shoulder. Audrey blocks the door, her hands on her hips. They

both look up as Alike edges into the living room.

Sharonda bawls harder. Alike gently closes the door on her.

Arthur and Audrey argue viciously.

Alike edges back into the living room, Audrey wheels on her.

Arthur is beaten and cornered.

Arthur drops his tote and advances toward Audrey, leveling a

stiff finger at her face.

Arthur gets in Audrey's face. Audrey leers back at him. Alike

jumps between them.

Tears stream down Arthur's face as Audrey shakes free and

aims one last blow at his face.

Click-clack. Click-clack. The rattle of circuit breakers echo

through the bare darkness of Laura's small apartment.

Click-clack. Click-clack.

Laura bangs into something in the darkness.

A small light flicks to life and grows larger. In its dim

glow, Laura spots Alike leaning against a worn couch. The

lights become two as Laura hands Alike a candle.

Alike snorts thickly. Her words are slurred and nasal.

Laura holds her candle up to Alike's grim face.

Alike wipes at already dried tear streaks on her puffy face

and looks down. Laura slides an arm around her waist and

guides her into the small bedroom.

Overturned Ramen noodle cups litter the floor. Laura sips a

beer and strokes Alike's head who sleeps fitfully in her lap.

Arthur is frozen in the middle of the living room with a

contractor trash bag. He stoops and piles the shards of a

broken lamp into the bag one by one. Sharonda peeks out at

him from her bedroom door. Arthur looks up at her and

Sharonda pushes the door shut.

Audrey sits at the edge of her bed in a housecoat. Her hair

is ruffled and flyaway. Her ankles are crossed and her hands

are dead birds in her lap. Her work clothes are laid out in a

neat line beside her: shirt, pants, socks, and shoes on the

floor right underneath. The telephone begins to ring, but

Audrey does not hear it.

Bina and a HIGH SCHOOL BOY sit on the floor, their backs

propped against the bed, books spread on the floor. The boy

puts his arm around Bina, launching numerous passionate

advances, but Bina pushes him away.

The clueless boy continues his clumsy attempts. Bina stares

out the window, completely detached.

Audrey, still in her housecoat, stares into the refrigerator,

transfixed by the mountain of foil-covered plates. Her eyes

are cried-out buttons. Suddenly she remembers to breathe, and

her breaths come raggedly tearing out fresh tears. She yanks

a foil-covered plate, dumps its contents into the trash can

and tosses the plate into the sink. She dumps another and

another, her composure returning with each plate tossed. By

the time she gets to the last one, her breathing slows and

returns to normal. She disappears into the bedroom and

reappears with the red shopping bag. She calmly lifts out the

pink blouse and stuffs it into the garbage. She wads up the

shopping bag and stuffs it in too. She takes a deep breath

and wipes her sleeve across her nose.

Arthur, Audrey and Sharonda are pegged around the dinner

table. Audrey's make-up fails to cover the dark circles

beneath her eyes and Arthur has a week's worth of stubble.

There is a jagged hole where Alike usually sits. Noticing

the asymmetry, Audrey bundles up Alike's place setting and

sweeps it onto the floor. Sharonda looks from Audrey to

Arthur then into her plate.

Arthur clears his throat.

Audrey thrusts her hands out to Arthur and Sharonda.   They

each take her hand and Arthur begins again.

Arthur stops talking but his head remains bowed. An awkward

silence ensues. Audrey and Sharonda look up at him still

holding hands.

Audrey switches to an overly cheery auto-pilot mode, babbling

to no one in particular.

Sharonda, staring at her father doesn't reach for the bowl.

Alike and Laura sit at the edge of the roof sharing a quart

of mint chocolate chip ice cream. Sunset paints the cityscape

pink and orange. The faint cadence of children playing drifts

in and out on a fickle breeze. Alike's wounds are healing and

she seems happy. The friends exchange wordless smiles and

soak in the peacefulness around them.

Laura hears a noise at the door and gets up to investigate.

Arthur is standing in the doorway. Laura calls out to Alike.

Alike looks up and the smile fades from her face. Arthur

tries to move around Laura, but Laura stares him down. Laura

looks back at Alike. Alike considers, then carefully nods.

Laura steps out of the way and watches Arthur pass.

Alike rises to face her father. She stands tall, her weight

is centered. Arthur struggles to find her eyes, and she turns

away from him. Distant playground voices fill the pause.

EXT. LAURA'S ROOFTOP - WEEKS LATER

Alike sits at the edge of the roof writing in her notebook.

Laura swings open the door and Alike looks back in greeting,

her smile fading as Arthur appears behind her. Laura motions

to Alike. Alike considers, then carefully nods. Laura steps

aside and watches Arthur pass.

Alike wanders to the edge of the roof, Arthur follows.

Distant playground voices fill the pause.

Arthur squeezes Alike's hand and drifts away. Alike inhales

the sunset.

Audrey is cleaned up, well-dressed and freshly put together.

She sits alone at the lunch table, crunching an apple. A

bible and a daily devotional guide are spread open in front

of her. Alike knocks on the glass, and Audrey looks up

stunned. Alike comes in and sits across from her. Audrey

glances around, concerned about passing coworkers.

Audrey gathers her lunch garbage and pushes back from the

table.

Audrey stacks her devotional guide on top of her bible and

stands. She starts to speak, then crosses to the door

instead.

The downtown Brooklyn landscape hums against the windshield

as Arthur and Alike ride in complete silence. Sharonda chews

a thumbnail, peering over the backseat. Laura slumps against

the window, a smirk hiding at the corner of her lips.

Laura and Sharonda fumble a suitcase out of the trunk of the

car. Alike shrugs into her backpack. Arthur nudges them aside

and hefts out the rest of the luggage.

Arthur slams the trunk shut.

Alike shakes her head. Arthur starts to back away.

Alike pounces on Arthur in a surprise hug. Arthur squeezes

her back.

General chaos as passengers, and well-wishes scramble for

position.

Laura squeezes Alike first with one arm then pulls her hand

out of her pocket to wrap both arms around her friend.

Laura backs away and wipes a sleeve at her eye.

Alike disappears through the bus doors. Laura slouches on a

hydrant and Sharonda paces, scanning the windows for Alike.

Sharonda waves maniacally. Alike musters a smile and puts a

hand on the window. Laura raises a fist. The bus sails away

from the curb.

Alike leans forward to keep Laura and Sharonda in sight as

long as possible. As she faces front again, she glimpses

Arthur, standing in the doorway of the terminal. A passing

van blots him from view and she leans back in her seat. An

OLD KOREAN WOMAN next to her offers her a piece of ginger

candy. Alike pops the candy into her mouth and takes a deep

breath.

Reflections of the retreating city landscape replay across

Alike's face and she is able to hold back neither the smile

nor the tears that come.

