These three men are surrounded by the other forty-one

clerics, all men of learning, thoroughly versed in the art of

dragging confessions out of accused persons.

A special table is reserved for the notaries.

Cauchon gives orders for the accused to be brought in.

the first time. It is so quiet in the chapel that you can

hear the grating noise of the chains round Joan's ankles.

sunlight falls obliquely into the room in long shafts.

Suddenly Joan finds herself in the middle of one of these

shafts and stops for a moment. She becomes aware that every

eye is turned towards her; she sees that they are hard, cold

and uncomprehending. For a few seconds it seems as if she is

going to collapse, overcome by the cold, remorseless

atmosphere. On one side a completely human, simple, young

country girl; on the other the flower of this century's

talents, learned doctors, the fine fruits of the university,

every prodigy in Christendom ... the instruments of reason -

and of death. The personification on one side of innocence,

on the other of magnificence. The terrible, relentless way in

which they look at this girl in man's clothes, all these

bishops, all these ascetics and members of orders with their

newly cropped tonsures! These learned gentlemen regard her

man's shoes and short hair as something loathsome and

indecent. They believe as one man that it will be all easy

matter to get the upper hand over this child.

for the accused.

burden of her chains. Then she sits down. Her face is pale

and marked with grief and suffering. She lets her eyes wander

over these rows of men in clerical garb - alone and unaided

she must battle with them to save her name and her life. She

leans towards Massieu and says a few quiet words to him as if

to remind him of some promise. Massieu says to Cauchon:

The bishop, who is engaged in thumbing through some documents

which one of the prelates, Loiseleur, has just brought him,

discusses the request briefly with the Inquisitor, and

replies that he is obliged to deny her this favor because of

her indecent dress.

With a gesture he indicates that the Bible is to be fetched

and placed in front of Joan. She kneels, folds her hands over

the book and recites the oath:

is quiet, a small door opens, giving direct access to the

castle from the chapel. It is Warwick, the English governor

and general, who enters. The respect shown to the new arrival

by some of the soldiers in his vicinity suggests that he is a

person of some importance. As the Commander-in-Chief of the

English army of occupation he is the real, though

unrecognized, driving force behind the trial. He has come for

the purpose of speeding things up, but he keeps in the

background - like an accomplished butler who supervises from

a distance and sees that everything is proceeding smoothly.

For the moment he remains standing just inside the door;

presently he comes further forward and is hidden by columns.

At one point we see him in conversation with Loiseleur.

Joan her name. She answers:

Joan nods. Scenes from her childhood come rushing into her

memory. Her eyes are moist with tears, and when Cauchon asks:

Joan can hardly produce a word, for her sobs are lying like a

knot in her throat. She answers so softly that hardly anybody

can hear:

Cauchon nods and tells Joan to say the Our Father. She

refuses. Jean d'Estivet and Cauchon exchange glances. Cauchon

tells her urgently to do his bidding, but Joan refuses again,

for she is afraid that memories of her mother and her home in

Domremy are going to overwhelm her.

Cauchon puts further pressure on her: she is to repeat the

Our Father immediately and unconditionally. She declines to

do so.

examining judge take over the interrogation. The latter makes

an inclination of the head and asks:

Joan confirms this with a nod and adds:

The judges burst out laughing. Joan's eyes are raised to

heaven, as if it was heaven that gave her courage and found

the right words for her. Her expression, which is filled with

the glory of a heavenly vision, is almost unearthly as she

answers:

More contemptuous laughter from the judges. The examining

judge confers with the other judges. Their expressions show

that they are setting a new trap for Joan.

Joan does not immediately understand the question, and the

examining judge has to repeat it. Then Joan gives one of her

brilliant, inspired answers:

strength which suddenly reveals a new side of her character,

and turning towards the English soldiers:

Commotion and protests among the soldiers: why should Joan be

allowed to insult England? But Joan continues inflexibly:

The soldiers are furious. They can no longer contain

themselves. One of them makes a movement towards the accused.

Massieu leaps to her defense. But Cauchon intervenes and

orders silence; he has to use all his authority to restore

order among the judges. The hearing continues.

Joan explains that she has always greeted Saint Michael in

the way one should greet a saint. One of the judges tells her

to show how she greeted Saint Michael.

of taking off her cap, and bows reverently before the

imagined saint. She gets up again, while the judges talk

together.

Joan does not immediately grasp the question. Half the judges

shout to one another.

Hundreds of questions fly across the room: Did he have wings?

Was his head like an ordinary man's? Was he wearing a crown?

Under this deluge of questions Joan makes a movement as if to

say that she cannot answer them all at once.

formulates his question more carefully:

But Joan does not answer.

whisper something in his ear. There is a suggestion of

pruriency about this man. The bishop nods and turns to Joan:

Joan is silent. She realizes that another trap is being laid

for her.

asks a new question:

Every ear strains to hear the reply, for now Joan has to

answer. And again she produces one of her brilliant, careful

answers:

nevertheless he pursues the matter further:

But Joan, who now feels that she is on firm ground, smiles

and answers with artless inspiration:

method. He confers with those sitting nearest him and then

gives way to the examining judge, who begins to question Joan

about her dress:

Joan refuses several times to answer and remains sitting

motionless, stiff as a ramrod. The judge says:

suggestion, which he thinks must be very easy for her to do.

But Joan looks at him with the air of one treasuring a great

secret, and says no to the judge. When the judge presses her

to tell him why she refuses, she answers:

Whispering among the judges -

of the judges says:

Joan answers unhesitatingly:

A smile of triumph spreads from face to face among Joan's

judges.

Then he leans forward over his desk, smiles and asks in an

insincere tone of voice:

her breast and raises her eyes to heaven:

She remains sitting in the same position; her look conveys

the impression that she can see into the furthest corner of

heaven.

gets up, goes right up to her, spits in her face and hisses:

Then he goes back to his place. But on Joan's face there

lingers the expression of one who is far removed from this

world. From time to time throughout this episode two of the

judges, Nicolas de Houppeville and Martin Ladvenu, have been

seen to show signs of sympathy for the accused.

Houppeville can control himself no longer. Provoked to the

limit, he rises and shouts:

The whole room turns to him in amazement. He continues

fearlessly:

approaches the bishop and says to him:

moment is drying her cheeks, still wet from Jean d'Estivet's

spittle. Houppeville continues:

He goes over to her, genuflects before her, and turns to go

out through the door.

He whispers a few words to an officer, who follows

Houppeville the length of the chapel.

him and follows on Houppeville's heels.

Each of the judges in the room understands the fate in store

for Houppeville, and is seized with fear. An icy, unquiet

silence prevails.

and ask the meaning of this incident.

the session to continue. He asks Joan:

Joan gives an absent-minded nod. Cauchon presses her to tell

him what it is that God has promised.

Cauchon asks with his most ingratiating smile, but Joan

shakes her head. Cauchon tries to persuade her:

But Joan declines to answer:

assembly. Cauchon turns to the judges and asks:

He orders those who consider that it has to raise their

hands. Nearly every hand goes up. Then it is the turn of

those who take the opposite view. Ladvenu is the only one to

raise his hand, but when he sees that he is entirely alone he

takes it down again.

of the question to the trial has been unanimously agreed, she

is obliged to answer. He repeats his question:

Joan does not answer.

Joan confirms this with a nod. Dalleu speaks in a low voice

to Cauchon, who asks:

After sitting for a while, lost in thought, Joan answers:

A further exchange of words between Cauchon and d'Estivet

then Cauchon makes a sign for Massieu to take the accused

back to prison. Joan rises to go.

Cauchon can see no reason for complying with her request. But

he sees the opportunity of imposing a condition which he

knows will be unacceptable to Joan:

Then she is led away. Her chains clank as they drag over the

flagstones. The judges leave their places.

the order to which they belong. We see one group consisting

of Dominicans, another of canons, a third of mendicant

friars. The entire assembly talks and whispers. Monks'

cloaks, homespun tunics and cowls, caps and hats. Here a fat

old abbot, here a short, slim monk. Respectful inclinations

of the head, sanctimonious smiles, violent outbursts of

laughter. The witty ones recognizable by their thin lips and

legs. In the background beardless students, solemn as popes,

in earnest discussion.

But round the judges' table a discussion is going on between

Cauchon, Lemaitre, Jean d'Estivet, the learned Thomas de

Courcelles, Loiseleur, Beaupere, Pierre Maurice and Warwick.

Warwick stays in the background, as if wishing to underline

that he has no part in the conspiracy against Joan; but it is

clearly understood that he has the last word in the matter.

They are considering what procedure to adopt. The point is to

lose as little time as possible in getting Joan to compromise

herself. Loiseleur propounds a scheme which receives general

approval. Warwick is asked a question, which he answers in

the affirmative. An order is given to a secretary, who at

once leaves the chapel.

Massieu has brought Joan back. The door closes behind her.

Overcome by fatigue, she sits on her bed. In front of the

judges she has restrained her weeping. Now that she is alone,

the pent-up tears pour from her eyes.

The conference is still going on. Loiseleur is dictating to

the notaries. At intervals one of the other judges interposes

a word or a suggestion.

Joan is still shaking with sobs. Suddenly she sees a cross

slowly forming on the floor close to her feet. It is the

shadow of the window grating. She knows this cross and loves

it. It always comes when she is feeling lonely and unhappy.

She has no doubt that it is God who sends her solace and

encouragement in this way. She dries her eyes and produces

from a hiding-place a piece of handiwork, with which she

occupies her hands and her thoughts when she is not before

the judges. It is a crown of plaited straw - very simple,

pretty and childlike. Soon she is completely absorbed in this

work, to which she devotes all her love. We see the Joan from

Domremy who 'is second to no woman in Rouen, when it comes to

spinning or sewing.' From time to time she looks at the cross

on the ground.

dictating. The notary reads back to him.

We see only Joan's hands which are occupied in plaiting her

crown. The shot is taken in such a way that the crown and the

cross on the ground can be seen together.

aloud and what he has read is approved. Meanwhile the

secretary has returned. He hands a document to Warwick, who

passes it round. It goes from hand to hand, and finally to

the notary.

soldiers are playing with a small English dog. An old serving

woman comes with food for Joan in an earthenware bowl. One of

the soldiers seizes the bowl; he selects the best piece of

meat and gives it to the dog. The latter swallows the meat

and licks the soldier's fingers. With the same fingers he

picks out another piece of meat and gives this also to the

dog.

hand - that of the notary - is engaged in copying the

signature from one document to the other.

The soldier comes in with Joan's food, followed by the dog.

Two other soldiers appear in the door, for these rascals

never lose an opportunity of tormenting their victim. As the

soldier hands Joan the food, his eye falls on her ring. He

demands it from her, but she implores him to let her keep it:

it is her mother's ring. But the soldier is determined to

have it, even if he has to use force. He calls to the other

two soldiers to come and help him, and puts the bowl of food

on the ground in such a position that the dog naturally takes

advantage of it.

the ring from Joan's finger Loiseleur appears in the open

door. He appears to be filled with genuine indignation at the

sight of the ill treatment to which the three rascals are

subjecting Joan. The soldiers have turned round. They are

afraid. Loiseleur threatens them and quickly goes up to the

soldier who has wrested Joan's ring from her. The soldier is

compelled to hand over the ring to Loiseleur, who thereupon

orders the three ruffians out of the cell.

round him and goes over to Joan who regards him with deep

amazement which embraces gratitude as well; for after all it

is he who has just saved her from the soldiers' cruelties. He

remains standing a few paces from her, looks at her in a

serious and friendly way and says:

A feeble smile appears at the corners of Joan's mouth, but

her expression of astonishment remains.

forward the cross disappears; but Joan fails to notice this,

absorbed as she is in wondering why this prelate has come to

visit her. Loiseleur, who has now come right up to Joan,

hands her the ring, which she receives gratefully. Then she

again fixes her look of enquiry on the prelate, whom she has

previously seen among her judges.

Joan nods, though without understanding the purpose of his

visit. From his cowl he produces a letter which he hands to

Joan. She takes it. She shows with a smile that she

recognizes Charles VII's signature. Then she returns the

letter and says:

The reflection of an inner joy shines in her eyes. Her face

lights up during the reading and she smiles. Loiseleur does

not move from the spot. He stands watching her, motionless

and pale. He gazes at her with the eyes of a snake, while

Joan sits with an absent smile, completely absorbed in her

own joyful thoughts.

Immediately behind the cell wall there is a secret room,

where a man can remain hidden, spying on the prisoner through

a judas, or chink in the wall. Alternating with the scenes

between Joan and Loiseleur are close-ups of Cauchon spying

and eavesdropping behind the chink.

place; he is perfectly aware of its existence. When he

reaches the chink, he and Cauchon look at each other. First

Cauchon's serious eye is shown through the chink, then -

likewise through the chink - Loiseleur's small, cunning,

contracted eye. Loiseleur catches sight of the crown and

says:

Then he turns to Joan, who is still sitting with the King's

letter in her hands. He offers to hear her confession.

in this happiness. She drops a pretty curtsy, then kneels

with folded hands in a charming attitude suggestive of a

penitent child. He advises her strongly to speak to him with

an open heart. Here she is not before her judge, but before

her king. God can hear her!

Cauchon and his attendants follow the scene attentively from

the secret room. With a ledger on his lap the notary takes

down everything that Joan says, but it is clear that she is

saying nothing of any significance, for all the skill with

which Loiseleur presents his questions. So it is not long

before Loiseleur gives her a sugary smile and rattles off the

absolution. He makes the sign of the cross over her and

stands up.

now come into the cell. The soldiers bring in chairs and a

table for the scribe. The judges group themselves in a circle

round Joan, some sitting, others standing. Loiseleur places

himself behind Cauchon. In addition to the judges, Massieu

also is present.

Joan agrees with a nod, and Lemaitre continues:

Joan sits motionless for a moment. The judges look at her

with watchful eyes. A perceptible change comes over Joan. Her

expression is transfigured. A heavenly light spreads over her

face, she folds her hands and begins to pray. The sight of

this small and helpless woman, turning to God in captivating

innocence, makes an involuntary impression on some of the

judges. The gentle Massieu in particular can hardly restrain

his tears.

Joan has said the Our Father. Jean d'Estivet is thus obliged

to eliminate this important point from his charge-sheet.

Joan smiles and gives Loiseleur a secret, confidential

glance. His eyes gleam back at her in complicity. She

answers:

to explain precisely what she knows, and how she has come to

know it. But Joan answers:

With great secrecy he grips Loiseleur's hand in gratitude.

Cauchon, Lemaitre and some of the other judges plot together.

Joan knows instinctively that they have laid a trap for her.

In her uncertainty she looks for help from Loiseleur, who

indicates to her with a slight smile that she is to say yes.

Lemaitre is satisfied with her answer but takes good care to

conceal his satisfaction. In a tone almost of boredom he

says:

before, and Joan says yes.

Massieu's eyes are as if riveted to Joan's lips, and now when

she answers yes he forgets where he is, forgets that Cauchon

is just beside him, and almost without thinking says to Joan:

Cauchon pounces on Massieu and bursts out:

Massieu wants to explain, but Cauchon cuts him short and

orders the hearing to continue.

in a chain of questions carefully prepared and ingeniously

related:

Joan is already floundering in the net. She has the feeling

that her answer may decide her destiny. She is like a hunted

animal that looks for the smallest gap in the chain of

beaters in the hope of escaping its pursuers. The judges

never take their eyes from her. Ladvenu and Massieu are the

only ones whose faces show signs of sympathy and compassion.

Loiseleur, seeing that his plan is working out to perfection,

gives Cauchon a slight nudge with his knee. There is a pause.

final question which will settle the issue:

For a few seconds it is so still that you could hear a pin

drop. Joan tries to catch Loiseleur's eye, but he adroitly

avoids meeting her look of entreaty. Joan is obviously at a

loss how to answer.

convulsively forward and shouts:

Cauchon, enraged, rises in all his majesty and bellows with

the full power of his lungs:

Massieu defends himself. He explains that nobody has the

right to ask such a question of an accused person, least of

all when the accused is a young girl standing on her own with

nobody to advise her. But Cauchon will tolerate no

insubordination. Massieu is forced to kneel there and then

and ask for pardon, and must consider himself fortunate not

to share de Houppeville's fate.

to continue. Lemaitre, still seething, asks:

Joan opens her mouth to answer, but appears to have second

thoughts and remains silent. She looks in the direction of

Loiseleur, who is apparently absorbed in his own reflection.

He is abandoning her to her fate. In his view she is a

certain prey; whether she answers yes or no, she is doomed to

perdition. But now that Joan has collected her thoughts

again, she gives this admirable answer:

smiles. But her judges, who have sat there greedily waiting

for the prey to fall into the net so that they can hurl

themselves on it - these judges now sit not knowing what to

say or where to look. They gaze at each other in speechless

amazement. Some of them unconsciously make the sign of the

cross. Loiseleur is beyond doubt the most disconcerted. All

of them feel that they have suffered a defeat. This battle is

lost; now they must try to win the next one. A short

conference takes place. The judges rise to go.

begs him:

Cauchon thrusts her away so brutally that she hits the bed.

She remains lying on the floor.

whispering something in his ear. Cauchon's face lights up. He

whispers to the others, letting them in on Loiseleur's plan.

Then he approaches Joan and says to her in his mildest voice:

Joan looks up at Cauchon. Her eyes are already gleaming with

hope and expectation. Cauchon continues:

When Joan hears this condition, her hope is extinguished as

rapidly as it was kindled. Her expression reflects the

deepest disappointment. Her judges repeat Cauchon's question,

but she declines their offer. One of them helps her up. She

sits on the bed, and all those taking part in the session

crowd round her, saying that she must adopt the dress which

is appropriate to her sex, if she wants to obtain so great a

blessing, and if she wants to live up to her pious feelings.

Joan explains through her tears that she is not allowed to do

otherwise:

But Cauchon, unable to control his anger, persists:

Joan tries in vain to make them understand that this form of

dress does not pollute her soul with sin, and that wearing it

is not in conflict with the Church's laws. Ignoring Joan's

remarks, Cauchon rages:

Joan writhes under these denunciations, she implores him to

show mercy, but he scourges her pitilessly:

Joan weeps and sobs.

over her and hisses:

Joan cries out and collapses.

The judges watch her for a moment. Ladvenu full of sympathy.

Then Cauchon turns to Massieu and says:

Massieu can hardly believe his ears. Are they really going to

torture Joan? But a look from Cauchon prevents him from

saying anything. He goes out through the door, giving Joan a

look of compassion as he does so.

out, and in the ante-room they reproach and abuse him:

They threaten to throw him into the Seine if this happens

again.

The judges leave Joan, Loiseleur being the last to go. Before

he leaves the cell he approaches Joan and pats her hair

sympathetically:

Joan turns her tear-stained face to him; full of gratitude

for his kind words, she kisses his hand. Then Loiseleur goes

out.

Joan is left in solitude for a mere moment, before the

soldiers enter in order to bait her in their usual manner.

Joan takes no notice of them. One of them tickles her in the

ear with a straw. Joan gets up laboriously and sits down on

the bed. One of the soldiers suddenly catches sight of the

straw crown. He laughs, picks it up, turns it round in his

hands, and finally places it on Joan's head. Outraged by this

form of sacrilege, she removes it and puts it on the bed; but

the soldier replaces the crown on her head, at the same time

giving her several slaps in the face. He steps back and peeps

through the hollow of his hand, as if to see her better.

tones:

He takes an arrow from his quiver, and places it in Joan's

hands. She lets him do this without resistance.

Another soldier takes a pitcher of water, and sprinkles Joan

with his fingers. All three bow low before her as if she was

a saint, and finally kneel and say:

Then, still bowing, they step back and go out.

Joan sits for a moment by herself. Without changing her

position she prays silently to God. She is praying to the

Almighty for strength and courage to endure her trial by

torture.

torture-chamber. He is amazed at finding her decked out in

this way, but he gives her such comfort as he can, and leads

her out.

The judges have already arrived and are taking their places.

They consist of Pierre Cauchon, Lemaitre, and nine doctors

and prelates. The two executioners, Maugier Leparmentier and

his assistant, are putting the instruments in order and

making other necessary preparations.

tells one of the younger judges to bring a stool for Joan.

He points at Cauchon, who sits surrounded by his

collaborators. Not one face expresses any feeling of

friendliness towards the accused. The judge continues:

happy idea and is about to continue his course of instruction

when Joan interrupts him:

The judge, who has spoken to Joan as one speaks to a child

which stubbornly refuses to listen to reason, shrugs his

shoulders and gives up. There is nothing to be done about

this woman's arrogance.

obstinacy. Now he leans forward in his chair and says with

great emphasis:

Joan looks up quickly, as if unable to believe her ears. She

searches the faces of her judges, one after the other.

Cauchon continues:

Joan sits for a moment, deep in thought. Then a smile spreads

across her face. Almost unconsciously she shakes her head -

and smiles again. Assuredly the Devil has no power over her

and is not going to obtain it either.

For a moment the smile fades from Joan's lips. She does not

answer. Cauchon looks at her for a long time and then says:

Joan finds this idea so comical that she has to laugh. She

cannot help herself; it is not a provocative laugh, only the

spontaneous laughter of a healthy person. But Cauchon strikes

the table in anger. Joan stops laughing. Cauchon gazes

fixedly at her for some time without saying a word. There is

complete silence in the room.

towards her and says:

Joan is serious again. Cauchon continues, pronouncing the

words with steadily increasing emphasis:

He pauses briefly, then continues:

Then after another short pause:

While Cauchon has been speaking a change has come over Joan.

It is clear that she is tormented by doubts. God has promised

her that she will be set free. Why has God not kept his

promise to her? Why does he let her stand alone against all

these churchmen, these learned doctors? She even asks herself

whether she has the right to talk as she does in front of all

these gifted and erudite men. Is it true that she is full of

pride? Is it the Devil who has possessed her and insinuated

in her mind everything that she believed to have come from

God?

seeing what is going on in this young woman's heart. While

Joan is wrestling with her doubts he orders a small table to

be set in front of her. He puts a document on the table and

then places a pen in her hand. Half absentmindedly she lets

him do all this, but when Cauchon tries to persuade her to

sign she tells him that she is unable to read. Cauchon tells

the notary to read the declaration aloud:

Joan warningly that she must sign the declaration, and adds:

Joan's expression makes it clear that she has almost overcome

her doubts. Her faith in God and belief in her mission are on

the point of gaining the upper hand.

Cauchon threatens her:

Joan's crisis is over. Once again she sees clearly the path

she must follow. Quietly she puts away the pen. Cauchon sees

this and thunders:

But a heavenly light shines from Joan's face. She smiles.

With her eyes raised to heaven she says:

increases his exertions and displays all his powers of

persuasion. Does she know that the Church has the means to

compel her? Is she familiar with the secrets of the torture?

Cauchon's threats make no impression on Joan.

She feels safe with her God. Her face is transfigured by a

beautiful light as she says:

Enraged by Joan's pig-headedness, Cauchon loses patience. He

orders Joan to be put to torture. While the executioners are

taking care of her the judges gather together in a group.

One instrument of torture after another is displayed for

Joan's benefit. With an executioner at her side she is

conducted past the various appliances. She looks at each one

for a long time, trembling with fear. Occasionally the

executioner demonstrates with a gesture how one of the

instruments is operated. They are trying to frighten Joan out

of her senses.

When the executioners have completed their preparations and

the torture can begin, Cauchon goes up to Joan and invites

her once again to sign the declaration. She refuses and says:

Cauchon gives orders for the torture to begin. Joan lets out

a scream of pain. She is seen to raise one hand. They all

think she is indicating her readiness to sign. A judge holds

the document out to her, but Joan thrusts it away so

violently that it falls on the ground. Somebody picks it up.

And Joan says vehemently:

