Out of BLACK we hear the sound of an airplane roaring by.

EXT.  POV OF AN AIRPLANE

Flying over American heartland.  We see the earth through the

pilot's perspective as sky and ground swap positions, the

plane swooping down and storming over the ground.

THE PLANE

is a biplane, racing over a field lush with young plants.  It

releases a trail of crop spray, and climbs again...

Up into a crystalline blue sky where sunshine pours like

honey over family farms stretching to the horizon.  Maybe

it's not heaven, maybe it's just Tennessee.  But as long as

there's been an America, men have fought and died for this

place -- as volunteers.

Far off, but visible from the plane is

A BARN - DAY

The barn is unpainted except for hand lettering that says

"McCawley Crop Dusting." Another plane noise, this one made

by kids, brings us to TWO BOYS, sitting in the shell of an

old plane propped on crates, scavenged of it's engine, seats,

and wheels.

The boys sit in it's cockpit, butts crowded onto the nail keg

they've replaced the seat with.  They've even attached a 2x4

as propeller, as if their imaginations needed any help.  They

wear overalls and have bowl haircuts:  RAFE and DANNY, 10

years old.

They buzz their lips in a flying noise and work the controls,

Rafe's bare feet on one pedal, Danny's on the other.

Rafe looks at Danny in shock -- then they both laugh and go

right back into their game, manufacturing their own machine

gun and engine sounds.

Their vocal motors roar again... But a man's hand grabs Danny

by the straps of his overalls and jerks him from the cockpit.

It's Danny's FATHER and he's a fearsome sight; drunk, his

hair uncombed, his face unshaven, his teeth -- those still

left -- are rotting.  He's also missing an arm; but the one

that's left is potent, and he's shaking Danny with it.

His father slaps him off his feet.  Rafe is so horrified he

can't get a sound out.  Danny isn't even surprised.  But when

his father snatches him up again, twisting the overall straps

so tight they choke him, he struggles.  It does no good; his

father starts marching across the field, dragging and

strangling Danny.

The father's drunken anger makes him oblivious -- until

CRACK!  The 2x4 propeller slams him across the back, knocking

him to the ground and making him drop Danny.

The father rolls over to see 10-year-old Rafe, holding the

2x4 like a bat.

The father's eyes bulge in rage; he struggles to his feet.

The man looks murderous, but Rafe draws back the board.

The words ring something deep in the man's booze-broken

brain.  He begins to cough, convulsively; it brings a blossom

of blood to his mouth.  He wipes it with his hand, but blood

clings to his teeth.  He chokes out --

He looks at Danny in shame, with the realization of what he's

just done.  He turns and staggers away.

Danny looks at Rafe -- a communication between boys joined by

something deeper than blood.  Then Danny runs off after his

father.

Danny catches him, takes his father's hand, and walks away

with him.

The crop duster we saw in the air has just landed, behind

Rafe.  The pilot, RAFE'S FATHER, shuts off the engine.

Rafe turns back to the ramshackle plane and replaces the 2x4

propeller.  His father looks toward Danny and his father,

walking away, then looks at his own son.

Rafe can't believe it; he runs to the plane and hops into his

father's lap.  As his father cranks the engine and tucks him

into the harness, Rafe says --

The engine races to life...and we --

EXT.  NEW JERSEY AIR BASE - DAY

American P-40 fighters blast through the air, props screaming

and wind singing by their wings.

There are eight pilots in their individual seats, and we

focus on two:  RAFE MCCAWLEY has grown lean and handsome.

And DANNY WALKER is very much the same.

Their planes start swapping positions in the formation; while

the other guys are flying along in a tight line, Rafe and

Danny are playing, one of them gunning his engine to go high,

the other diving and coming back up in his place,

leapfrogging.

It scares the other guys, having their planes flashing in and

out, so close.  The TRAINING CAPTAIN, watching through

binoculars on the ground, talks into his RADIO --

Rafe grins and guns his plane low, in the opposite direction

he was moving before.  Danny reacts almost instantly...

leapfrogging in the opposite direction, scaring the piss out

of everybody else.

The squadron responds, forming up into a tight V, Rafe and

Danny just behind and on either side of the center.

Rafe grins, loving the challenge.  Then he and Danny do the

leapfrogging maneuver laterally, swapping sides in the V.

EXT.  NEW JERSEY AIRFIELD - DAY

The planes land in tight order and taxi off the runway; shut

down their props, slide back the canopies and hop down.  We

see young pilots we'll get to know:  ANTHONY, BILLY, RED.

EXT.  RAFE AND DANNY - STILL IN THE AIR - DAY

They've circled to opposite ends of the airfield and are now

heading right at each other, like two bullets playing

chicken.

INT.  THE COCKPITS

From Rafe and Danny's POV, the rush is awesome.

THE PILOTS ON THE GROUND watch in awe as the P-40's get so

close they can't possibly get out of each other's way.

Billy, the most boyish-faced of the pilots, yells to drown

out the sound of the collision...

At the last instant, both planes snap a quarter turn so that

their wings are vertical, and they shoot past each other

belly to belly.

IN THE COCKPITS

Rafe and Danny burst out laughing.

THE PILOTS ON THE GROUND

laugh and congratulate each other.

Rafe banks to land, and Danny tucks in behind him.  Danny has

Rafe's plane in his sights.

Rafe feints left, banks right, and appears behind Danny.

They're almost to the landing strip, Rafe behind Danny.  But

as Danny's wheels are about to touch, he guns his engine and

snaps the nose of his plane straight up.

THE OTHER PILOTS stop laughing.

Danny pulls it off, just barely making a full circle to come

in behind Rafe and bounce to a stop on the runway.

Danny taxis his plane over to join the others.  He's grinning

as he slides back his cockpit cover; then --

Red, tall with flaming orange hair, tips his chin toward the

air.  Seeing Rafe's plane still in the air, Danny starts to

refasten his harness.

Danny's just about to ask what the hell that means, when he

notices Rafe climbing in a deliberate spiral.

RAFE'S PLANE reaches two thousand feet, just a speck above

them, and seems to pause in the air.

Anthony and Billy join in, like an involuntary chant --

RAFE, IN HIS COCKPIT, is tightly controlled, yet serene.  He

noses the plane into a power dive.

The P-40 screams toward the ground, picking up speed, going

so fast it begins to shudder.

THE OTHER PILOTS are transfixed.  Red is so nervous he can't

get the words out.

The P-40, hurtling toward the ground at nauseating speed,

snaps into a half roll, streaking upside down over the

runway.  Rafe hangs inverted in his flight harness, the

asphalt of the runway shooting past, ten feet beyond his

head.

He pushes the plane into a climb, his cockpit on the outside

of the circle.  The plane reaches the top of its arc, and

almost stalls; but Rafe noses it over again, toward the

earth, only this time he has very little altitude.  The plane

hurtles down, still with it belly on the inside of the

curve...

And makes it full circle.  Rafe's head now is barely a foot

off the asphalt as the plane shoots past, still inverted.

THE OTHER PILOTS burst into cheers.

RAFE, IN HIS COCKPIT permits himself a smile.

He lands, and the guys run out to meet him...all except for

the Training Captain, who stands there shaking his head.

Danny jumps on the wing, as Rafe stops and slides back his

canopy.  Danny grabs him by the harness and shakes him.

He dives into the cockpit, hugging Rafe.

INT.  COLONEL DOOLITTLE'S OFFICE - DAY

COLONEL JIMMY DOOLITTLE, mid-forties, is commander of the

base.  He's as tough as he is good in the air.  And right now

he's frowning at Rafe McCawley, standing at attention before

him.

Doolittle stands, moves around his desk, and shakes Rafe's

hand.

INT.  NEW JERSEY AIRFIELD - BARRACKS - NIGHT

The pilots are getting slicked up for a night on the town.

Danny's at the mirrors with the others; he's putting on

cologne, and looks terrific in his uniform.

Anthony and Billy are combing their hair at the sinks.  Billy

declares to his image in the mirror --

Red finishes brushing his teeth at the sink beside them.

The guys head out laughing, running into Rafe coming in.

Rafe catches Danny's arm.

EXT.  NEW JERSEY BARRACKS - NIGHT

Rafe and Danny are walking on the parade ground; the other

guys are already on the bus that will take them into town.

Danny's upset by what Rafe just told him.

Danny walks away.  The bus driver's ready to leave, and Red

is honking the horn for Rafe to come.  Rafe reluctantly lets

Danny go, and heads for the bus, where the pilots are

chanting --

INT.  A MOVING TRAIN - DAY

The trains of 1942 have their own beauty, with felt seats,

shaded lamps, and paneled compartments even in the economy

section.  But the glow of the train is outshone by EVELYN

STEWART.  She's one of ten young women, Army nurses, gathered

at one end of the car as it rattles along the track.

The other nurses are pretty and ripe -- maybe a bit too

ripe.  Their lips painted bright red, their faces powdered,

their spirits high.

Evelyn listens in amusement to BETTY, a cute blonde with

unmissable boobs, and BARBARA, a burnette equally endowed.

SANDRA, another nurse, speaks up.

The girls laugh and shove each others' knees; it's a party

wherever they go.  But Evelyn can't keep her mind on the

frivolity.  She looks out the window and her thoughts drift

away.

Suddenly all the girlish faces are looking at Evelyn.

Sandra throws up her arms and swoons onto her friends.

A silence among the nurses.

As the nurses laugh --

EXT.  NEW YORK TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

Our pilots -- indeed leather-jacketed and handsome -- are

waiting on the platform.  Among then is Rafe, holding

something behind his back, as the train pulls in and shudders

to a stop, clouds of steam jetting onto the platform and

giving the moment a dream-like haze.

INT./ EXT.  TRAIN - NEW YORK TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

The nurses start stepping out; both pilots and nurses pretend

surprise to see each.  At the door of the train, Evelyn

whispers to Betty --

Betty spot's Rafe.

They move to Rafe; he crosses the platform to meet them, his

eyes holding Evelyn.

Betty clears her throat.

He draws his hand from behind his back; he's holding two

roses.  He hands one to Evelyn and the second to Betty.

He escorts them along the platform.

Betty stops, and faces Rafe.

INT.  CITY NIGHT CLUB - NIGHT

It's a party in full swing; swing music, jitterbugging,

beautiful young men and women in high spirits.

Rafe and Evelyn are sitting at a big table with the other

pilots and nurses.  Anthony's paired up with Sandra, Billy

with Barbara, and Red, shyest of the group, finds himself

next to Betty.  Betty's already found a companion in Red

Strange.

Beside her beer is an open ketchup bottle; he picks it up and

swigs from that.  Rafe and Evelyn see this, and try to keep

from laughing.

She covers his hand with hers.

Red looks at Betty with love in his eyes.  Under the table,

Rafe and Evelyn join hands too.

He hesitates; then Evelyn is distracted by the conversation

beside them, between Barbara and Billy.

Barbara shoots a look at Evelyn, before she answers.

She takes him by the hand and pulls him to his feet... They

start dancing, sexy movements that won't stop till they've

been in bed.

Rafe pulls Evelyn to her feet, and leads her through the

dancers, outside.

EXT.  THE NIGHT CLUB - NIGHT

They find a quiet place on a balcony that overlooks the

river, and Manhattan beyond.  Evelyn takes in the view,

breathes in the air; she still holds the rose.

The power of hearing this from each other grips them both.

He studies her face, burning it into his memory.

She takes his hand and leads him inside.

INT.  NIGHT CLUB - NIGHT

She leads him onto the dance floor, and they dance, among the

others, yet in a world apart from everyone else.  And then

they stop while all the others move around them, and kiss the

kind of kiss that lasts a lifetime.

EXT.  HOTEL - NIGHT

The nurses are entering the hotel.  Pilots are going in with

them.  But Rafe and Evelyn stop on the street.

A last kiss.  Their hands touch a final time, and then part.

She moves inside the lobby, and looks out the glass doors as

he walks away.

EXT.  TRAIN STATION - DAWN

Rafe and Danny stand on the platform.  Rafe's got his gear

packed in a bag slung over his shoulder.

Rafe glances once more toward the revolving doors from the

station that lead onto the platform.

Rafe sticks his hand out to Danny.  Danny knocks it away, and

hugs him.

Rafe steps onto the train, and it pulls away.  Rafe waves.

Danny waves back and smiles, but he whispers like a prayer...

INT.  TRAIN - DAWN

Rafe finds a seat and sits down.  He's the only one in the

car, and he's deeply alone.

EXT.  TRAIN STATION - DAWN

Danny walks to one of the three revolving doors back into the

station.  He takes the one on the far right.  As he passes

through it, he doesn't see Evelyn rushing through the door on

the left side.  She's told herself she wouldn't come, but

couldn't help it, and now as she sees the last car of the

train disappearing around the corner the pain of it all hits

her.

She stands on the empty platform, as lonely as Rafe.

MONTAGE - THE JOURNEYS

Rafe and Evelyn travel in opposite directions, toward

opposite ends of the earth...

EXT.  A GRAY, COLD, CANADIAN SEAPORT - DAY

as Rafe boards a Canadian naval vessel headed into the North

Atlantic.

EXT.  TRAIN - TRAVELING THROUGH THE AMERICAN WEST - DAY

Evelyn and her fellow nurses ride the train through the

American southwest.  The scenery outside the window is

beautiful, but her thoughts are far away...

EXT.  NORTH ATLANTIC - DAY

Rafe's ship is in a convoy through the rough gray waters.

The deck is loaded with military supplies bound for Britain.

Rafe stands among the drab crates and seems oblivious to the

rain, his thoughts on Evelyn.

He looks toward the eastern horizon, where his ship is

heading.  A deep, dark storm is brewing before them...

EXT.  PACIFIC - DAY

Evelyn stands on the deck of a ship headed in the opposite

direction, on another ocean, the sky is clear, the breeze is

warm, the light of a glowing sunset bathes her face.  The

MONTAGE ENDS, with them heading to different ends of the

earth.

EXT.  BASSINGBORNE AIRFIELD - BRITAIN - DUSK

In the eternal dusk of England, everything is cold and gray.

British fighter planes -- Spitfires and Hurricanes -- are

surrounded by mechanics hurriedly ripping off bullet riddled

fuselage panels and digging into overworked aircraft engines.

Rafe walks across the tarmac, still carrying his duffel bag.

He moves up behind a slim, pale BRITISH AIR COMMANDER who is

surveying engine damage on one of the Spitfires.

Rafe salutes as the Air Commander turns and then returns the

salute, with his left arm -- his right arm is gone.  Rafe

freezes at the sight, reminded of Danny's father.

EXT.  BASSINGBORNE AIRFIELD - BRITAIN - DAY

A Spitfire sits on the runway, and it's badly mangled -- a

string of bullet holes punched through at mid-fuselage; a

shot-off chunk of wingtip; but most striking is the blood

still splattered over the inside of the cockpit.

He walks away, leaving Rafe to stare at the bloody cockpit.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - MILITARY BASE - DAY

Evelyn and the nurses enter the base, riding in two jeeps.

As they stop at the gate, the guards look at them, especially

Evelyn in the lead jeep; one guard mumbles to the other --

The guards lift the bar and smile at the nurses.  The jeeps

drive through.  The nurses are loving this island paradise

already.

Barbara slides on a new pair of sunglasses with plastic palm

trees glued on the sides, and calls back to the guards as the

jeeps pull away --

EXT.  MILITARY BASE - NURSES' QUARTERS - OAHU - DAY

As the other nurses happily unpack, Evelyn leaves and crosses

the grass in the drenching sunshine.  We follow her into --

INT.  BASE HOSPITAL - DAY

She finds a small, immaculately clean hospital, twenty beds

with luminous white sheets, all empty.

Then she notices the view.  It's of Pearl Harbor, with the

entire American Pacific fleet riding at anchor.  Battleships

all in a row.  Aircraft carriers too, in perfect stillness on

the aqua blue water with a white sand bottom.  The view is

expansive and beautiful.

The sound of an approaching fighter plane with wing guns

firing as we --

EXT.  THE DARK SKIES OVER THE ENGLISH CHANNEL - DAY

Rafe, in the middle of an aerial dogfight, throws his

Spitfire into a tight turn, swinging around to fire again

into a squadron of Messerschmidts; they outnumber the British

planes, and they're tougher and faster.  Rafe darts through

their line, machine guns blazing.

One of the Spitfires in Rafe's squadron has taken hits in the

engine compartment and is sputtering, losing power, its

pilot, NIGEL, frantic as the German planes swarm into finish

him.

Rafe slams his control stick hard right and goes into a power

dive at one of the Messerschmidts.  Rafe's bullets chew up

its cockpit and the plane goes into a fast corkscrew spiral,

down into the water.

Rafe instantly climbs again.  Nigel, in the moment of safety

Rafe has bought him, bails out, his chute blossoming and

carrying him toward the water.  The OTHER BRITISH PILOTS are

impressed.

Rafe swings his plane right back at the Germans; he attacks

them head on, just like he went at Danny, only this time he's

firing his machine guns.

And OVER THIS ferocious dogfight, we hear his letter to

Evelyn...

The Messerschmidt in Rafe's sights breaks apart with the

stream of precise fire he pours into it, its prop flying into

pieces, its disintegration accelerated by its airspeed.

Before it completely comes apart, it explodes.

Rafe goes into another tight turn, to get at them again.

As Rafe starts another attack we see him in the cockpit, in

the trance of battle, as other Spitfires around him are

getting shot out of the sky...as we --

EXT.  HOSPITAL - PEARL HARBOR - DAY

Evelyn, receiving the letter at mail call.

She sits on the grass under a palm tree, in paradise, reading

his letter.

EXT.  OUTDOOR RESTAURANT - OAHU - DAY

Evelyn is off duty, and wears a light cotton dress.  She's

let her hair down, and her skin has the sheen of light sweat

in the tropical heat.

The restaurant is barely more than a shelter of palm wood

posts with a frond roof, and it looks out over the harbor.

Evelyn sits alone.  She's brought writing paper.  As the

Hawaiian waiter serves her an icy tropical ambrosia with

chunks of pineapple and a fresh plumeria flower floating at

the rim of the glass, she lifts her pen.

But before she can start to write, three naval officers move

over to her table from the bar.  They're out of uniform too,

wearing garish tropical shirts.

The guys look at each other, impressed that she could tell.

He shows her the tattoo of an anchor on his forearm.  Evelyn

looks away from them, toward the harbor.

His friends start to pull him away, but Evelyn's eyes flare.

They leave, shaking their heads.  Evelyn picks up her pen,

and writes.

She looks toward the sunset now; then she writes again...

EXT.  BASSINGBORNE AIRFIELD - BRITAIN - NIGHT

Rafe brings his battered plane in for a landing...

INT.  BRITISH AIRFIELD BARRACKS - NIGHT

Rafe sits on his cot, reading her letter.

Rafe is startled as the Air Commander appears beside his

bunk.

Rafe nods, glad to hear the news.  The Commander starts to

walk away, then turns back.

The Commander salutes, with his left hand.  And Rafe salutes

too -- with his left hand.

EXT.  ESTABLISHING THE WHITE HOUSE - WASHINGTON D.C. - DAY

The White House looks somehow whiter and purer in the glow of

1941.

INT.  PRESIDENTIAL CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

GENERALS, ADMIRALS, and other advisors sit around the

polished table -- all males, in suits and in uniforms.  The

door opens, and the men all stand.

PRESIDENT FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT appears, in a wheelchair, pushed

by a huge black valet, GEORGE.  The President's legs are

shriveled, braced with the iron supports that attach to his

shoes and are apparent beneath the cloth of his pin-striped

pants.  From the waist up Roosevelt is heavily muscled,

powerful, and handsome even in his little spectacles.  The

valet rolls him to the head of the table; he's speaking even

before he settles in.

They sit, as one.

EXT.  ESTABLISHING TOKYO - JAPAN - NIGHT

INT.  JAPANESE HIGH COMMAND - NIGHT

The Conference Room is similar to that of the White House.

But this table is low and all the men sit on the floor.  And

there are no civilians here; Japan is now a nation ruled by

its warriors.

The last man to enter the room and take his place is ADMIRAL

YAMAMOTO.  Harvard educated, Yamamoto is an object of

veneration and suspicion among the men of the war council.

Yamamoto bows, sits, and looks across the table at his friend

Genda, who can't hide his fear.  Yamamoto glances to the far

end of the table where NISHIKURA, chief of the War Council,

sits glowering.  (Their discussion is in Japanese, with

subtitles.)

He motions to OYAMA, an intelligence analyst, who opens a

file and lays out pictures of Roosevelt.

Yamamoto makes a low grunt.

The members of the war council are so pleased with Yamamoto

that they bow to him.  Only Genda keeps his eyes raised long

enough to see the sadness in Yamamoto's face.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - AIR BASE - BARRACKS - DAY

Danny Walker and his pilot buddies have just arrived; they

enter the barracks, talking happily.

Danny has stopped before the others; now all of them see that

the other pilots who inhabit this air base are still in their

beds, sleeping off hangovers.  They wear Hawaiian shirts;

they haven't shaved.

Danny pauses for a moment, then shouts --

The sleeping pilots groan, and cover their heads with their

pillows.

One guy sits up in bed, his hair pointing every direction of

the compass, his tongue working as if to wipe a terrible

taste from his mouth.  As his feet dangle over the side of

the bunk and one of them touches the floor, a sensation

reaches his sotted brain; he raises that foot to look at its

bottom, and finds a new tattoo, on the sole of his foot; he

blinks as if trying to remember how it got there.

Danny moves over to him, and dubs him with a name, COMA.

Coma is one of those drunks who speak as if he's always about

to burp.

Coma emits a pukey, toxic burp that has Danny and his buddies

wincing back from the fumes.

The question soaks through to Coma's brain.  His right hand

points...and his left hand points...in different directions.

His hands float around in the air until finally both of them

are indicating the same direction, behind his back.  In the

bunk beyond Coma's is another drunk pilot in a Hawaiian

shirt...and to judge by the shapely bronzed leg that

protrudes from under his damp sheet, there's a woman with him

too.

Danny and his buddies are speechless -- except for Red

Strange.

Coma's head drifts forward slowly; they think for a moment

he's looking for something under the bed.  Then he pukes.

Danny leaps back from the splatter, and marches out of the

barracks; his friends follow.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - AIRFIELD - DAY

Danny and his buddies stride up to the airfield.  It's full

of fighter planes -- and they're all bunched together in

clusters on the field.  Danny grabs a MECHANIC.

The mechanic walks off.  Danny and the guys are left standing

on the tarmac.

INT.  OAHU BAR - DAY

Danny and the pilots are in Hawaiian shirts, their party in

full swing.  A bucket-sized hollowed-out volcano sits in the

middle of the table, with twelve straws emerging from the

crater.  It's full of booze -- or was; Danny and the other

guys are pulling heartily at the straws, and they gurgle as

the last liquid is sucked dry.

Coma is sitting there with them, beside Red.

Everybody's having a ball, the new arrivals fitting right in

with the others.  Danny's a bit off to himself, lost in his

own thoughts.  Billy and Anthony are doing the hula to the

Hawaiian music playing.

Coma stands and starts demonstrating, explaining the gestures

of his hula.

Coma's really into his dance, his hands over enormous

imaginary breasts; but as he turns toward the windows --

The guys see Evelyn passing on the other side of the street,

gorgeous in the sunshine.  Coma's hands start squeezing the

imaginary breasts of his hula.

Danny moves up to look.

Danny's hand is suddenly around Coma's larynx.

Danny releases him and Coma staggers back to the table to

nuzzle up to one of the straws of the mai-tai volcano.

Danny looks out the window again and sees Evelyn's beautiful

form disappear around the corner, on her way back to the base

hospital.  Danny moves back to the table, and as two burly

Hawaiian waiters set another full loaded mai-tai volcano onto

the center of the table, he picks up a glass and dips it full

of the potent liquid.  He shouts to the whole room --

The other pilots drink up -- from glasses or from straws.

Danny drains the whole glass at one chug, and slams it down

onto the table.  Then he blinks, puts a hand on his stomach,

and frowns.  Coma recognizes the look.

Danny bends at the waist; his head obscured by the table.

INT.  ADMIRAL KIMMEL'S OFFICE - OAHU - DAY

ADMIRAL KIMMEL is Commander of the American Pacific Fleet.

Two members of his staff are standing uncomfortably in front

of him, having delivered a message from the Joint Chiefs of

Staff.

Kimmel's STRATEGIC ANALYST speaks up.

EXT.  THE SKIES ABOVE OAHU - DAY

A seaplane takes tourists on an excursion above Pearl Harbor

and around the island of Oahu.  One Japanese tourist shoots

pictures rapidly...first of the ships as seen from overhead;

then he leans to the other side of the plane and shoots

pictures of the airfield below them.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

Another Japanese tourist hikes through the hills above Pearl

Harbor.  He takes an excellent camera from his picnic basket,

and shoots pictures.

CLOSE - THE PICTURES, being carried down a hallway, into --

INT.  JAPANESE PLANNERS OFFICE - DAY

The courier places the pictures onto the table in front of

Yamamoto, Genda, and the other JAPANESE OFFICERS.

He moves to a diagram displayed on the wall -- a simple

display showing water depth and ship displacement.

From a stand beside his diagram he takes a set of wooden

fins, attached to a circular metallic band.

EXT.  JAPANESE ISLAND - DAY

Yamamoto and his planners have flown to a quiet Japanese

island, sunlit and pleasant.  They are gathered on the shore

of the island's natural harbor.  Wooden targets -- basically

huge plank barriers -- are sunk into the water like ships at

anchor.  A squadron of Japanese planes zooms overhead, taking

up attack positions.

Genda speaks into a field radio.  A lone plane drops out of

formation and goes into a low-level approach, speeding up and

dropping its torpedo.

BELOW THE SURFACE we see the torpedo as it plunges at two

hundred miles an hour into the sunlit sea.  With the wooden

fins the torpedo makes a sharp dip and levels off above the

sea floor.

ABOVE THE SURFACE the planners see the path of the torpedo;

it hits the wooden barrier with a satisfying THUNK.  The

planners are impressed -- but Yamamoto is not satisfied.

Yamamoto nods; Genda speaks again into his radio, and another

plane swoops down and drops a torpedo.  Genda holds his hands

to his ears, causing the others to do the same; even though

they wonder at the need.

The torpedo hits the barrier, and the explosion is deafening,

and of shocking force; the entire barrier is blown to

toothpicks.

The planners, nearly blown off their feet, nod as if they

knew that all the time.

INT.  MILITARY BASE - PILOTS' BARRACKS - NIGHT

The pilots are getting slicked up.

Red moves up beside him to frown at the mirror.  His hair is

plastered down and parted, his uniform's immaculate.

Red moves away, to polish his shoes.

Anthony and Billy look at each other; Danny's in his bunk,

and he's not reading, just staring at the ceiling.

INT.  NURSES' BARRACKS - PEARL HARBOR - NIGHT

The nurses are primping to go out; Evelyn is in her uniform

getting ready to go back to work.

EXT.  NURSES' QUARTERS - OAHU - NIGHT

Creeping through the vegetation, Red leads Anthony and Billy

to a spot outside the nurses' barracks; they can see the

girls through the barracks window.

Anthony and Billy are baffled, even more so when Red strides

into the open, right outside the nurses' window.

And then, Red begins to sing.

Anthony and Billy look at each other, dumbfounded.  The

nurses move to the open windows.  Red's singing is pretty

good -- though not that good.  But he doesn't stutter when he

sings.

Anthony and Billy are hysterical, trying to keep their

laughter hidden.  But then they see the effect this is having

on the women -- especially on Betty.  She's smitten.

Red repeats the verse, really getting into it; when he

finishes, Betty runs out and hugs him, as all the nurses

applaud.  They move off into the darkness, arm and arm.

The nurses go back to their primping.

Anthony and Billy are changed men.  Anthony stands up;

Billy's baffled.  Anthony moves out and starts singing.

He's terrible.  The nurses pelt him with hairbrushes,

curlers, shoes...

EXT.  BASSINGBORNE AIRFIELD - BRITAIN - DAY

Coming out of the blustery skies at the end of another deadly

day, a squadron of Spitfires chirps in for landings.  The

planes are shot up and battered.

Rafe is one of the pilots; the fuselage below his cockpit is

marked with four swastikas, symbols of his victories.  He

taxis to a stop, and is met by IAN, a Scottish mechanic, who

is dismayed at the state of the plane.

Rafe starts away, and Ian calls to his back --

Rafe moves to the barracks; Ian keeps the fueling hose going,

and moves to help the armorers reload the guns.

INT.  BRITISH AIRFIELD BARRACKS - NIGHT

Rafe falls down onto his cot, exhausted.  The other pilots do

the same, everybody spent from the day's combat.  Then they

hear the SIREN.  Rafe's out of his bunk, with the others,

everybody running.

EXT.  BASSINGBORNE AIRFIELD - BRITAIN - NIGHT

They race across the runway.  Rafe reaches his Spitfire, just

as Ian is removing the fueling hose.

Ian gives the prop a spin, and the engine roars to life.

EXT.  SKIES OVER THE ENGLISH CHANNEL - NIGHT

It's dark, but there are breaks in the clouds, giving way to

patches of light from a full moon.  The squadron of Spitfires

tightens up for battle.

Rafe is positioned just right of the squad leader; he sees

planes breaking out of the dark clouds ahead.

The clouds break, revealing a huge attack formation.

They peel off, into action.

EXT.  THE AIR BATTLE OVER THE CHANNEL - NIGHT

We stay with Rafe as he and the Squad Leader rush side by

side at the lead bomber, blasting away with their guns.

INT.  GERMAN BOMBER - IN THE AIR - NIGHT

The Spitfires' bullets rip into the pilot and also kill the

nose gunner; the bomber dips as the copilot struggles to take

control.

INT.  RAFE, IN HIS SPITFIRE - NIGHT

As he streaks past, Rafe sees the bomber wobble in the air.

Rafe throws his plane into an ultra-tight, high speed turn,

right between the tails of the leader German group and the

noses of the second.  His turn is so tight that the plane

flexes with the g-force.

Rafe comes out of his turn ahead of the Squad Leader, and

races back up through the formation of German bombers, moving

above them where their weapons and armaments are the weakest.

He stitches a trail of bullets from tail to nose of the

wounded lead bomber; it begins to smoke.

The second Spitfire, the Squad Leader's, takes fire from the

other German bombers, and shears off, heading through the

smoke of the plane Rafe has on the ropes.

Rafe does a half-loop and half-spin, to bring him around to

face the bombers again.  This time the g-force of the turn

pops an oil line inside Rafe's cockpit; hot, pressurized oil

begins to spray everywhere -- all over Rafe, his controls,

and worst of all, over the inside of his cockpit glass.

He wipes at the oil with his hands and that just smears it

and makes it worse.

His wingman sees him veering away from the bombers...and sees

the German fighters moving up to meet him.

RAFE, IN HIS PLANE, is flying blind.

His problems are just beginning; the fluid is dripping down

onto his cockpit's corroded electrical wiring; the fluid

causes an arc...a spark...and suddenly a fire is spreading

through Rafe's plane.

He grabs his fire extinguisher and triggers a cloud that

snuffs the fire but fills the entire cockpit with choking

smoke; between that and the smeared fluid on his glass, he

can't see a thing.

And the Messerschmidts are swarming over him.

Rafe's wingman dives in, raking the German planes as he

passes.

Rafe tries to open his cockpit cover to clear the smoke, but

it's jammed; he pulls out his .45 pistol and BLAM!  BLAM!

BLAM!  He blows out the glass; the smoke clears enough for

him to take a breath and try to see.  He fights the stick,

but the plane won't respond.

The Messerschmidts rake him again, bullets riddling his

engine.

Rafe's plane descends, ever faster, passing through clouds,

then clear air again.  The Squad Leader tries to chase and

cover him, but Rafe's dropping fast, and still isn't out of

the plane as the Germans dive on him again, firing.

Rafe's Spitfire hits the broken fog over the water -- the

Squad Leader loses sight of it for a moment -- and then the

plane hits, splashing and exploding all at once.

The Squad Leader winces, and ducks into the clouds as he

reports on his radio...

EXT.  BATTLESHIP WEST VIRGINIA - PEARL HARBOR - DAY

The sailors have assembled on deck for the ship's heavyweight

championship fight, a contest made more interesting to the

sailors because one of the combatants is white and the other

is black.

The battle is more toughness than technique.  The guys

throwing haymakers and shoving each other around the roped

area, as their shipmates cheer and make wild bets.  The white

guy digs a punch deep into the black guy's ribs, and the

black guy slams a double left hook into the white guy's

belly, making him back up and say --

The black guy rushes the white guy, only to catch a right

cross that wobbles his knees and makes him stagger, with a

fresh cut over his right eye.  The white guy now rushes in,

and the black guy (his name is DORIE MILLER) throws an upper

cut that drops his opponent like a sack of rocks.

The sailors cheer wildly.  Dorie steps back, and rubs his

glove across his brow.  It's really bleeding now.

EXT.  MILITARY BASE - DAY

Evelyn is returning from church with six of her nurse

friends.  It's very quiet on a Sunday morning, almost nobody

at the base; they walk along the path.

Evelyn smiles softly and walks toward the base hospital.

EXT.  HOSPITAL - PEARL HARBOR - DAY

Evelyn approaches the hospital and finds the black boxer

peering in the window.  He's in a T-shirt and navy pants.

As Dorie turns, she sees the cut on his head, closed only

with a band-aid; it's dripping blood down his T-shirt.

INT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - DAY

Miller is sitting on a stool; Evelyn bathes the wound.

He says it without pride.  She puts down the basin.

INT.  HOSPITAL - PEARL HARBOR - LATER

Evelyn clips the ends of her carefully applied stitches;

Dorie's eyes are rolled up as if he could watch from inside

his skull.

She hands him a mirror.  He studies her work.

She walks him to the door.

Now Evelyn understands.

EXT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - SUNSET

Dorie walks away, down the path between the palm trees.  She

watches him go, and then is transfixed by someone else

coming, silhouetted by the light of the setting sun.  She

can't make out his face, but he's wearing a pilot's dress

uniform, and coming to her right out of the warm orange

sunset that she has stared at so many times.  Her heart slams

against her ribs; she takes a few steps forward.

She moves toward him, and he draws near her, walking slowly.

And then she sees his face...

It's Danny.  His face as sad as death itself.

And even before he tells her, she knows.

EXT.  A BENCH - OVERLOOKING PEARL HARBOR - SUNSET

Evelyn and Danny sit on the bench, with a sweeping view of

the harbor and the lights winking on all around it as the sun

settles beyond the horizon.  Evelyn is stoic, numb; Danny is

the one who is struggling.

Evelyn nods, still staring away from Danny.  This pierces

Danny; he looks away, struggling not to let the emotions pull

him completely under.

She stares into the distance.  He stands and puts his hand on

top of hers, as much for his comfort as for hers.

Since she's still not looking at him, he starts to move away.

When he reaches the turn in the path, he looks back, and sees

her figure in the gathering darkness.  She's begun to break

down; and as he watches, her whole body starts convulsing,

and she doubles up in shattering grief.

Danny can't just stand there; he moves back to her, and puts

a hand on her shoulder.  He sits beside her again, and

suddenly she turns to him and sobs upon him.  Danny wraps her

gently in his arms, and then he breaks down, having found the

first place he can truly grieve.

EXT.  JAPANESE BOMBING PRACTICE - JAPANESE ISLAND - DAY

The Japanese have constructed a replica of Pearl Harbor on

their practice island; erecting new target barriers and

silhouettes of the various ships anchored at Pearl.  Streams

of Japanese planes skim overhead in practice bombing runs,

dropping dummy torpedoes and bombs.  From a control platform

erected on the beach, Yamamoto and Genda oversee it all.

He looks out at the planes roaring into his practice harbor

at top speed...

INT.  PRESIDENTIAL BEDROOM - NIGHT

Roosevelt's valet leans over him.

Roosevelt wakes; beside the valet is a Presidential AIDE.

The Aide leaves quickly and Roosevelt starts to get out of

bed; his valet comes to help him.

Roosevelt drags himself out of bed, crawling toward the

bathroom, his powerful arms dragging his lifeless legs.

INT.  PENTAGON - DAY

ADMIRALS and other OFFICERS are gathered around a giant map

of the Pacific.

He nods to a VICE ADMIRAL, who stands over the map.

Nobody has any solution.

EXT.  PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY

A huge Japanese fleet steams toward Hawaii.  It is an awesome

sight.  Carriers, battleships, destroyers, and entire battle

group, traveling under complete radio silence, their hulls

power through the waves.  On the lower decks of the carriers

are hundreds of planes -- fighters and bombers.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

The American ships are lined up at anchor, calm, placid.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

The sailors and soldiers bask in the sun, play volleyball.

The aircraft carrier Lexington steams past toward the harbor

entrance.

EXT.  GOLF COURSES - OAHU - DAY

Men in military haircuts -- officers -- stroll the golf

courses, enjoying themselves.

INT.  DENTIST'S OFFICE - DAY

The DENTIST, an ethnic Japanese, is working on a patient with

his mouth agape.  The DENTIST ASSISTANT intrudes.

Leaving his patient with a mouth full of instruments, the

Dentist moves to his outer office, which looks directly out

over Pearl Harbor.  He speaks in Japanese.

He seems confused by the call, but he responds by looking out

over the harbor, then saying into the receiver --

INT.  SURVEILLANCE BASE - DAY

Some tired Army Intelligence types -- A LISTENER, a TRACKER,

and an INTELLIGENCE SUPERVISOR, are sitting at a bank of

phones.  The LISTENER is a Japanese-American.

He switches on the recording equipment and looks to the

TRACER, sitting at a battery of equipment.

INT.  BARBER SHOP - DAY

Admiral Kimmel is settling into the barber chair when his

AIDE enters and nods for the barber to move a few paces away,

so that he can speak privately.

The Admiral sinks back into the chair.

EXT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - DAY

A young amateur PHOTOGRAPHER, about 16, wearing a hat with

"PICTURES OF PARADISE" printed on it's crown is ready to snap

a shot of Evelyn and her nurse friends having a picnic lunch

on the lawn outside the hospital.

He hustles off.  Betty hands out picnic baskets.

Evelyn opens her basket, and finds a lei of Hawaiian flowers

stuffed in the top.  Betty scoots over and puts the flowers

around Evelyn's neck.

Evelyn's touched -- but before she can react two P-40's zoom

out of the skies, wings clipping the tops of the palm trees

as they blast over head.

INT.  COCKPIT'S OF THE P-40'S - DAY

Danny and Anthony are the pilots; as they pull up and away,

they pass over some officers on the golf course, scaring the

shit out of them as they putt.

EXT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - DAY

The nurses have sprawled to the ground; now even Evelyn is

smiling.

EXT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - PEARL HARBOR - EVENING

Evelyn walks out of the hospital.  She's still wearing her

lei.  The sun is going down in a spectacular sunset.

She stares at the orange glow at the edge of the world.  She

breathes in the sea air, and tries to breathe out the

sadness.  The water of the harbor laps close to where she

stands, the sunset polishing its surface.

She takes the lei from her neck, plucks a single flower, and

holds it like the rose Rafe once gave her.  Then she tosses

the rest of the lei into the ocean and watches it float away,

as the sun sinks behind the horizon.

INT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Evelyn finds her purse, and tucks the flower into it.  She's

alone in the hospital, everyone else has gone; she turns her

mind toward work, something to lose herself in.

EXT.  MILITARY BASE - NEAR THE PILOTS' BARRACKS - DAY

Danny is walking toward the barracks when a COLONEL hopping

mad, confronts him.

The Colonel glares at him and stalks away.

INT.  BASE CANTEEN - NIGHT

Danny and Evelyn are having coffee at the base canteen.

He's been lost in his own thoughts of Rafe; now he notices

the tears welling up in her eyes.

EXT.  HALEIWA AIR FIELD - NIGHT

A P-40 takes off from the remote airfield, lit only by the

full moon.

INT.  P-40 - NIGHT

Evelyn sits on Danny's lap, like Rafe sat in his Daddy's lap

years before.  Danny flies easily, the cockpit open, his arms

slipped under hers.

The sky above them is startlingly clear; a billion stars

dancing around a full moon.

He spins the plane in an easy half turn, inverting their

heads above Pearl Harbor, gorgeous in the moonlight, the

battleships aglow, the moon reflected in the peaceful water,

embraced by the island of Oahu.

EXT.  HALEIWA AIR FIELD - NIGHT

The P-40 soars easily in and settles to earth.  Danny shuts

down the engine.  Danny carefully removes the harness around

her.  She looks overhead.  The stars are still bright above

them.

She turns in his lap, and looks at him.  Their eyes connect.

Tentatively, almost reluctantly, they kiss.

EXT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - NIGHT

The POV of someone moving through the gathering darkness

approaches the hospital.

The lights from within the hospital, and the pristine white

beds beneath those lights, give the place a kind of glow,

where Evelyn moves alone and beautiful, like a ballerina in a

giant's jewel box.

Now we see the shoulders of the figure, from behind, and can

tell that it is a man in uniform, but at first we can't tell

who.  He's standing dead still, transfixed in watching Evelyn

through the windows.

INT.  BASE HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Evelyn moves to her desk, and sits down.  She looks at the

calender turning back to October, where she wrote on the

square of October 22, "Order supplies" -- she counts the

weeks from then to today, December 6.

EXT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - NIGHT

We see the full figure of the man watching her.  And now we

see his face.  It is Rafe.

His left hand is bandaged, but he is very much alive --

though seeing Evelyn has taken his breath, and even seems to

have robbed him of the power to move.  His eyes pick up every

detail of her -- her face...her hands.

And as Rafe watches Evelyn, he has the SUDDEN JOLTS OF

SUBLIMINAL FLASHBACKS...punctuated by fragments of the letter

she wrote to him, and INTERCUT with Rafe in the present,

watching Evelyn.

IN SUBLIMINAL FLASHBACK, RAFE'S SPITFIRE, crippled and

trailing smoke, passing through a patch of cloud as Rafe

hurls himself from the cockpit and jerks the ripcord of his

chute.

IN THE PRESENT...Rafe's face winces with the memory, and he

rivets his eyes on Evelyn, as if to force himself to know

that this moment is real.

SUBLIMINAL FLASHBACK...RAFE LANDS IN THE WATER, and the shock

of its coldness travels up his body faster than his body

sinks into the water.  He's cloaked in the fog; his

parachute, pushed by the wind, is pulling him along face

down.  He fights with the straps, flips himself over, and

pulls the release...

But he's still in desperate trouble; in his flying clothes,

his heavy leather jacket soaking with sea-water, he's going

down; his body sinks beneath the surface...

IN THE PRESENT, Rafe's chest trembles... Is it from the

memory of the frozen water, from the emotion of seeing Evelyn

again -- or both?

SUBLIMINAL FLASHBACKS -- Below the surface of the North Sea,

Rafe's body drifts, but he fights his way back up...he kicks

off his shoes, sheds the jacket, strips off his pants and

starts tying the cuffs into knots.

Then, in a CUT, he is floating in the water, his pants turned

into a makeshift life preserver, his body shaking

convulsively from the cold.

Then in another CUT we see him after he's been in the water

for so long that his body no longer trembles; he's lost

consciousness.  He has no strength, no will to live... His

face settles into the water...his body slips from his

preserver, and drifts beneath the surface...

IN FLASHBACK, Rafe beneath the surface... His eyes come open.

From his POV beneath the water, he sees something above the

surface.  It's only in his mind, but that makes it no less

real...an orange glow, the warmth of the sunset, and her face

above the surface... His limbs come to life, and he fights

his way up, breaking the surface.  The whole sea around him

is dark and empty, but he grabs his makeshift preserver and

holds on for dear life...and for Evelyn.

IN THE PRESENT Rafe stares through the window, at Evelyn, but

he can't go in.  He backs away from the window.

INT.  PILOT'S BARRACKS - NIGHT

A Japanese-American MESSAGE BOY parks his motorbike outside

and enters the barracks.

Danny rises from his bunk and accepts the telegram.  As the

message boy leaves, Danny reads... The news he learns stuns

him...

EXT.  BENCH - OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Rafe is still lost in thought.  He hears steps running up --

and sees Danny -- who spots him at the same moment.

INT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Evelyn puts away the calender.

EXT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Rafe is sitting at the bench, his head down.

ANGLE - Evelyn on the path; she sees someone on the bench,

his form hauntingly familiar.  He hears her, and looks up.

It's Rafe.

From Evelyn's POV, the whole world spins.  She faints.

Rafe jumps to catch her before she slams to the ground.  He

gathers her into his arms, and she looks up into his face.

He's real, very real.

She's trembling, shaking.  He lifts her to her feet, and

moves her to the bench.

He looks toward the horizon, when the last light of day fades

to black.  There's something he thinks about saying, and

doesn't.  Then...

He looks at her, then looks down again.

At these words, she looks at him for a long, long moment.

He sees the troubled look on her face.

She nods; she can't even say it.  Rafe's dying inside.

Danny runs up, through the darkness.

Rafe and Danny stare at each other; Danny hesitates, looking

from Rafe to Evelyn, wondering what they've said.  Then Rafe

looks at Evelyn, and picks up the look on her face.  In that

moment he puts it all together.

Danny's speechless, and for a moment Evelyn is too.

He puts up a hand, to silence her, and walks away suddenly.

Evelyn and Danny are left frozen.

EXT.  SHORE OF PEARL HARBOR - NIGHT

Rafe stares out at the harbor, seeing nothing.  As he stands

there alone and shattered, he has one more

SUBLIMINAL FLASHBACK

Rafe is in the water of the North Sea; he seems dead, but his

makeshift preserver is keeping his face above the surface.

Something slides through the water and stops beside him; it's

a dinghy, and behind it is a trawler.

Hands grab Rafe and drag him onto the dinghy...

In a QUICK CUT, Rafe's body is laid out on the deck of the

trawler.  The crewmen think he's dead.  His body is stiff,

his lips white; and they say so, in Norwegian...

But one of the other crewmen notices a quiver in his eyelid,

then quickly covers Rafe with his on wool peacoat and presses

back an eyelid to see his pupils.  Rafe's white lips move.

The crewmen realize he's trying to say something.

And Rafe does utter something, barely audible; something the

Norwegian crewmen don't understand.

IN THE PRESENT Rafe struggles to bury that memory so far that

he'll never feel it again.

EXT.  NURSES' QUARTERS - NIGHT

Danny escorts Evelyn back to her quarters.

He hugs her; their embrace earnest yet tingled with guilt,

and Danny leave quickly.  Betty steps out of the nurses'

quarters and hands Evelyn a telegram.

Evelyn knows it's the telegram from Rafe, to tell her he's

alive.  Without opening it, she begins to cry, and hurries

away from the barracks so the other nurses won't see.

EXT.  HICKAM FIELD - NIGHT

Danny crosses the tarmac toward the clustered P-40's.  He

spots what he's looking for.  Sitting in the cockpit of one

of the P-40's is Rafe.  Rafe won't look at him.  Danny climbs

up on the wing, and sits down there.

CLOSE - A Mai-Tai volcano clunks onto a table.

INT.  FUNKY OAHU BAR - DAY

Rafe takes the challenge, and takes a long pull on one of the

straws.  Red, Anthony, Billy, and several others enter the

bar.

They rush the table...

INT.  FUNKY OAHU BAR - LATER

They're all drinking, and the whole bar is rocking.  Rafe

uses glasses to show his buddies tactics.

The last words bring the group to silence.  The other guys

drift away, to give them room.

The waitress delivers four bottles to the table.  Rafe takes

a slow sip, then stares at Danny.

Danny takes a long pull of beer, and Rafe does the same.

Rafe nods thoughtfully, and sets down his beer.

BAM!  He knocks Danny out of the chair, flat on his ass.

Danny backhands the blood from the corner of his mouth.

He kicks Rafe in the back of the knee, then mule kicks him in

the chest as he goes down, and the fight is on.

The bar's bouncer, a big Samoan, moves over to break them up

-- but Anthony steps in his way.

The bouncer tosses Anthony aside, but before he can move in

to interrupt the fight, Red breaks a lava volcano of Mai-Tai

over the bouncer's skull.  The bartender picks up the phone

to call the M.P.'s.

Rafe and Danny are exchanging punches in the middle of the

room.  Sailors sitting at the bar have swung around on their

stools to watch the action.  The other pilots are wincing

with the punches their friends exchange, and bobbing and

weaving as if in the fight themselves.  A SAILOR tapes Billy.

Billy hits him.  The whole bar erupts.

Rafe and Danny are really having at it, fueled by so much

emotion that nothing hurts.  They're on the floor now, trying

to rip each other apart.  They struggle to their feet and

Rafe manages to knee Danny in the balls.  Danny doubles over

in pain.

Without looking up, Danny lunges at Rafe, tackling him around

the waist, driving him at the wall.

But they don't hit the wall; they tumble through the back

window of the bar -- not covered in glass, but fronds and

wood -- and out into the back alley.

They're lying there in the debris when they see the M.P.

jeeps coming.  They drag each other to their feet, and run

away.

EXT.  PACIFIC OCEAN - NIGHT

The Japanese task force rumbles through the night, the bows

of the great ships blasting through the crashing waves.

INT.  AIRCRAFT CARRIER AKAGI - NIGHT

Yamamoto's flagship.  The clock reaches midnight, and a

sailor tears off it's calender.  It's December 7, 1941.

EXT.  PACIFIC OCEAN - NEAR PEARL HARBOR - NIGHT

An American destroyer, the SELFRIDGE, leads a squadron of

destroyers on patrol, near the entrance of Pearl Harbor.

LOOKOUTS on the bridge think they spot something.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM - DESTROYER SELFRIDGE - NIGHT

The WATCH OFFICER listens to a report on his headset and

turns to the CAPTAIN.

The sonar operator looks up and nods.

EXT.  PACIFIC OCEAN - NEAR PEARL HARBOR - NIGHT

Another destroyer, the RALPH TALBOT, cruises behind the

Selfridge.  On it's bridge, the DUTY OFFICER speaks to the

CAPTAIN.

The Captain looks toward the Selfridge, then trains his

binoculars on the water were the Duty Officer points.  He

sees something dark and black slipping along beneath the

surface.  He gets onto his intercom.

He looks again at the black shape, passing a few hundred

yards from them.

The INTERCOM comes alive.

The Captain chokes back his frustration and shuts down the

intercom -- but then he says to the Duty Officer, as they

watch the shape disappear toward Pearl Harbor...

EXT.  OAHU - ROAD - NIGHT

Danny has pulled his Buick convertible off the road; Rafe is

bent over, his head out of frame; he's throwing up.  Danny's

banged up from the fight and still drunk himself; he waits

beside Rafe, who chokes out between heaves --

Rafe straightens up, but the waves of sickness come back over

him and he bends over again.  Danny looks at his friend, and

the pain is written on Danny's face.

Rafe doesn't seem to be listening; but Danny knows he is.

Rafe stands to face Danny; this is hard for Danny to say.

Danny slams his fist into Rafe's sick gut.  Rafe doubles over

again, coughing, nothing left in his belly to come up.

Rafe stand slowly, nodding as if he knows the punch was what

he deserved.  Danny's about to apologize when once more Rafe

knees him in the balls.

Danny folds up, drops to his knees, and starts to retch.

Rafe crawls into the back seat of the car and passes out,

Danny still collapsed at the side of the road.

EXT.  PACIFIC - NIGHT

The Japanese task force storms on.

INT.  JAPANESE AIRCRAFT CARRIERS - NIGHT

IN THE PREP DECKS, the planes are being armed with bombs and

torpedoes.

IN THE PILOTS' QUARTERS, the pilots individually sit before

personal shrines, saying private prayers, writing letters.

EXT.  JAPANESE CARRIERS - FLIGHT DECKS - NIGHT

The planes are brought up on the elevators; deck crewmen

start rolling them into position.

EXT.  UNDER THE SURFACE OF THE PACIFIC - NIGHT

A Japanese submarine with a midget sub attached to its hull

runs silently toward Pearl Harbor.

EXT.  OCEAN SURFACE - NIGHT

The periscope of the submarine breaks the surface.

INT.  JAPANESE SUB - NIGHT

The sub commander looks through the periscope and sees the

lights of Oahu far in the distance.

INT.  BUNK AREA OF SUB, BETWEEN TORPEDOES - NIGHT

The sailor who will drive the midget sub completes his

ceremonial sponge bath, and places a handwritten letter on

his personal shrine.

INT.  THE LAUNCH OF THE MIDGET SUB - NIGHT

We see the sub surface, and the sailor exit the main hatch of

the big sub, then force himself through the tiny hatch of the

midget sub.

EXT.  FLIGHT DECK, JAPANESE CARRIER - NIGHT

A single scout plane launches into the air.

INT.  SCOUT PLANE - NIGHT

The plane climbs to a high altitude, toward the dawn and

Pearl Harbor.

EXT.  PACIFIC OCEAN - NIGHT

The Japanese carriers turn into the wind and raise combat

pennants.  A color guard raises the Japanese flag as the deck

crew stand at attention, seeing the rising-sun flag snap

potently in the wind.

EXT.  JAPANESE AIRCRAFT CARRIERS - NIGHT

The first wave of Japanese planes begins to launch.  It is a

stirring sight for the Japanese; the pilots waiting in their

cockpits, the officers watching from the bridge, the seamen

on the flight deck.

The first plane taxis along the flight deck and lifts into

the sky.  The seamen cheer and wave their caps.

EXT.  PACIFIC OCEAN - NEAR PEARL HARBOR - NIGHT

The American destroyer WARD cuts through the water, moving

back into port after a night patrol.  It's CAPTAIN is on the

bridge, and its lookouts are still scanning the waters.

The Captain raises his binoculars and looks out behind the

ship.  He sees something small and black there.

EXT.  DECK OF THE DESTROYER WARD - NIGHT

The deck gun barks, aimed toward the conning tower of the

Japanese sub in the distance.  The first shot sails directly

over the tower, missing.

INT.  THE SUB'S CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT

The Japanese sub commander sees, through his periscope, the

flame erupt on the Ward's deck; he's being fired upon.  He

snaps orders --

EXT.  THE DECK OF THE WARD - NIGHT

The gunners snap in another shell and fire again.  It's a

direct hit, the sub is ripped apart, it rolls over.

INT.  WARD'S BRIDGE - NIGHT

The Captain watches the sub sinking and snaps an order.

EXT.  ESTABLISHING - RADAR STATION - PEARL HARBOR - DAWN

INT.  RADAR STATION - PEARL HARBOR - DAWN

There are two guys left in the room, yawning over their new

radar equipment.  The Officer, ELLIS, checks his watch; it's

a few minutes after seven a.m.

His screen shows a huge cloud of blips, heading toward them.

He gets on the telephone.

INT.  ARMY HEADQUARTERS - DAWN

The phone rings and an officer answers.

He covers the phone and tells his commander --

He switches on the radio, and tunes it to KGMB; hearing the

Hawaiian music reassures him something...

INT.  RADAR STATION - PEARL HARBOR - DAWN

Dismayed, Ellis listens to the response from the

headquarters.

He and the private look again at the cloud of blips --

growing ever larger, and moving in fast.

EXT.  THE SKIES ABOVE THE PACIFIC - DAY

The Japanese formations are streaking through the sky.

INT.  THE COCKPITS - DAY

The Japanese bombers, with three-man crews, are listening to

the Hawaiian music of the radio station, using it for their

homing beacon.  They look out and see the sunrise -- it's

beautiful, and resembles the Japanese flag.

EXT.  SKIES ABOVE PEARL HARBOR - DAWN

The Japanese scout plane is high in the air.  It radios --

INT.  BRIDGE OF YAMAMOTO'S CARRIER - DAY

Yamamoto is handed this message.

INT.  ADMIRAL KIMMEL'S HOME - DAY

The Admiral, dressed in his golf clothes, is leaving his home

when a naval LIEUTENANT appears at his door.

INT.  ADMIRAL KIMMEL'S OFFICE - OAHU - DAY

Kimmel enters his office, and is handed the latest

dispatches.

EXT.  WESTERN UNION OFFICE - PEARL HARBOR - DAY

A telegram, addressed to Admiral Kimmel, lands in the

regular, not urgent, dispatch box.  The messenger handles it

promptly, hopping on his motorbike to deliver it.

EXT.  SKIES ABOVE THE PACIFIC - DAY

The Japanese planes increase throttle and nose down, diving

toward the surface, hurtling into attack mode.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

The harbor lies quiet.  It's a sleepy Sunday morning.

Children are playing, officers are stepping from their houses

in their shorts to get the morning paper...

EXT.  MOUNTAINSIDE - OAHU - DAY

Hawaiian Boy Scouts are hiking on a side of one of the

mountains overlooking Pearl.

Suddenly booming over the mountain, barely ten feet above the

summit, comes a stream of planes.

The boys are awed.  What is this?

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

QUICK INTERCUTS - Between the approach of the Japanese

planes, and sleepy Pearl Harbor...

-- The planes, in formation, their propellers spinning, their

-- Pearl Harbor, with the ships silent, their engines cold,

-- The Japanese submarines heading in.

-- The American destroyers docking, instead of going out to

-- Another formation of Japanese bombers climbing high, into

-- The Japanese torpedo planes dropping down to the level of

-- The American planes bunched on the airfields.

-- ON THE JAPANESE CARRIERS, Yamamoto and his staff huddle

ON THE JAPANESE CARRIER DECKS, the second wave of planes is

being brought up and loaded with munitions...the Japanese

flag snaps tautly in the wind...

ON THE GOLD COURSE NEAR PEARL HARBOR, American officers are

laughing on the putting green near the club house, where the

American flag droops from the flag pole, limply at peace.

-- The Japanese planes roaring down just over the wave tops

-- Children playing in the early morning sun, looking up as

The images come faster and faster, the collision of Japan's

determination and American's innocence...

EXT.  DECK OF OKLAHOMA - DAY

Two sailors are standing on the deck, sharing a smoke,

looking out over the quiet harbor.  One of them sees the

first few planes streaking in.

Something drops from the lead plane and splashes easily into

the water; the plane banks away.

A white streak runs through the water at them.

They watch it rush at them...then, a MASSIVE EXPLOSION!  It

throws up a fifty foot wall of water, hurling the sailors and

everything else on the deck into the sea.

EXT.  THE ATTACK ON PEARL HARBOR - DAY

-- The first wave of planes drop more torpedoes; they plunge

We see their AWESOME BLASTS against the anchored ships as the

torpedoes hit home.

-- The Japanese LOW ALTITUDE BOMBERS come in; some drop their

-- INSIDE THE SHIPS, sleeping sailors are thrown from their

-- Zero fighter planes strafe the ships, raking the decks and

EXT.  ON THE AMERICAN SHIPS - DAY

Fire and smoke are turning everything into chaos.  some

sailors rush to man the guns, they find the ammo boxes

locked.

Under the bombing and strafing, they find a wrench and start

pounding on the lock, trying to break open the ammo box.

Then they break open the lock -- and find the ammo box empty.

He runs for the ladders, and is shot down before he gets

there.

EXT.  SKIES OVER PEARL HARBOR - DAY

The dive bombers scream in.

EXT.  DECK OF THE WEST VIRGINIA - DAY

Bombs are hitting the deck.  Sailors are blown into the air

and out into the oily water.  Nearby ships are catching fire;

the flames spread out onto the oily water itself.

INT.  BELOW DECKS OF THE WEST VIRGINIA - DAY

Dorie Miller, the boxing champion/kitchen helper, is working

picking up the breakfast trays when he feels the ship

shudder.  The intercom comes alive --

Men run to the ladders, and the shaking of the ship from a

bomb blast tosses them off; Dorie's at the foot of the ladder

when men fall back on top of him.

EXT.  BRIDGE OF WEST VIRGINIA - DAY

The Captain of the ship has reached the command bridge, where

most of his staff is lying wounded from a bomb blast.

MORE TORPEDOES and BOMBS blast into the ship.  A big chunk of

shrapnel tears into the Captain and rips his stomach open.

The medics he was just directing to other men now run to him,

as the men they were going to help have been blown apart.

EXT.  DECK OF THE WEST VIRGINIA - DAY

Sailors run up from below and are gunned down and blasted

down before they can reach their weapons.

Dorie Miller emerges from below decks and sees the carnage,

the confusion.  A bloody OFFICER grabs him.

Dorie runs into the fire and smoke, toward the bridge.

EXT.  BRIDGE OF THE WEST VIRGINIA - DAY

Dorie arrives to see the medics crouched over the

disemboweled Captain, who is still giving orders.

Dorie helps the medic lift the Captain to take him below.

INT.  BELOW DECKS OF THE WEST VIRGINIA - DAY

Dorie carries the Captain down the ladder by himself, using

one arm to climb and one to hold the Captain like a child's

teddy bear.  When they reach the bottom the pain has grown

too much for the Captain; he know's he's dying.

Dorie puts him down; the medic jumps down the ladder and

reaches the Captain, who tells him --

He trembles in death throes...

He's dead.  The Medic runs toward the ladder, reaches the

hatch, and is blasted back to the bottom by an explosion

overhead.

Dorie runs for the ladder, and climbs out into hell.

EXT.  DECK OF THE WEST VIRGINIA - DAY

Dorie emerges into even greater carnage and confusion.  A

sailor, his body on fire, runs past and leaps into the oily

water -- but it is in flames too.

Then Dorie sees it:  an unmanned anti-aircraft gun.  He runs

to it, through the strafing.

The gun already has a belt of ammo in it -- apparently loaded

by the gunner who lies beside it with his chest shot open.

Dorie swings the business end of the gun toward the Zeros

coming in out of the smoke, and he begins to fire.

The Zeros keep coming and he keeps firing; nothing on earth

will knock him from that gun.

INT.  NURSES' BARRACKS - DAY

Evelyn is up, dressed; her roommates are just stirring.

EXT.  NURSES' QUARTERS - OAHU - DAY

Evelyn has stepped to the door when she hears a distant

rumble and looks across the harbor to see smoke rising, ships

taking hits.

As she runs, Japanese planes are coming toward the base.

EXT.  THE MESS HALL AT HICKAM FIELD - DAY

The men were sitting down to breakfast, but the machine gun

bullets tearing up the outer walls have them clogging the

doors, and it's so clogged they can't all get out.

A steel bomb crashes through the roof and slams through the

room, taking out tables and chairs before bouncing off the

wall and coming to a stop.

TWO SOLDIERS, trapped within the mess hall, see it stop

without detonating.  They are bug-eyed, hearts stopped.

The bomb detonated, blowing everything to bloody dust.

INT.  HOSPITAL - DAY

Evelyn reaches the hospital first and runs to the cabinet,

withdrawing supplies.

Barbara and Sandra appear at the far door, both terrified.

She races into the hallway, the other two following.

INT.  HOSPITAL - TRACTION WARD - DAY

Four men from a jeep accident are lying in traction, their

casted limbs roped in the air.  Evelyn runs in, grabbing a

razor blade from the medical cabinet -- and telling Barbara

and Sandra.

Bombs are falling outside, on the airfield this wing of the

hospital faces.  Evelyn slices the traction ropes of a man

with both legs broken; ignoring his groans, she rolls him out

of the bed and covers him with the mattress.  The other

nurses follow her lead.  The bombs are coming toward the

hospital ward; Evelyn finishes with the fourth man and covers

him and herself with the mattress, just as a bomb craters

outside the window.

The nurses and patients look up after the explosions have

passed; there's a chunk of smoking shrapnel lying on the

springs of the bunk where the last man had been lying.

EXT.  HICKAM FIELD - DAY

The Japanese low-altitude bombers, with Zero escorts, zoom in

over the field, blasting the clusters of American warplanes,

whole squadrons taken out with one bomb.

The mechanics and pilots, caught in the open, run from the

strafing.  The Zeros rake them down with machine gun fire.

It's carnage.

EXT.  PHOTOGRAPHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Sammy, the amateur photographer, is leaving his house for a

morning of working his "Pictures of Paradise" business, when

he sees the Japanese formations rumbling toward Pearl.  He

races back inside.

INT.  PHOTOGRAPHER'S HOUSE - DAY

He fishes into his drawer for a film camera, and digs out

cans of film, struggling to load it as he runs back out.

INT.  HICKAM FIELD - BARRACKS - DAY

The pilots of Danny's squadron have returned from their night

of drinking and brawling and are crashed on their bunks.  Red

stirs and staggers toward the head; he bumps into the wall,

backs up like a wind-up toy and lurches blindly forward

again, into --

INT.  BARRACKS - THE HEAD - DAY

Red sleepwalks to the urinals and unleashes a marathon piss

stream, still in his sleep.  A rumble penetrates his brain,

and his eyes come open a fraction.  Through the window slits

above the urinals, he can see a cloud of Japanese planes

rushing past.

He squeezes his eyes shut, and looks again; the planes start

bombing the distant hangers.

Red pisses along the wall as he races to the barracks, trying

to get his pecker back into his drawers.  He shouts to the

sleeping guys --

He slaps his face with both hands, and stomps his feet...

He still can't get it out, can't wake them; bursting with

frustration, he suddenly blasts out singing --

He's belting it like a baritone in a bizarre opera.  His

friends stir; what the hell?  Red points outside and tries to

talk, but now he can't mutter a syllable.  The guys hear the

explosions, and realize...

EXT.  HICKAM FIELD - BARRACKS - DAY

The pilots stagger out, half drunk, half dressed.  Seeing

what's happening, they race toward the flight line, where the

clustered American planes are blowing up in groups, and the

pilots are knocked to the ground.

Billy jumps to his feet and starts to run toward a cluster of

fighters that hasn't gone up yet.

Anthony tries to grab him and drag him back to earth but he

misses; Billy gets a few steps before the fire from a

strafing Zero catches up to him; his friends watch in horror

as Billy gets shorter as he runs; the Zero's machine gun fire

is sawing his legs off from the feet up.

Billy falls, legless but still alive; then a bomb falls

almost on top of him, sending body parts over the pilots.

Their innocence, like America's, is gone in that moment.

EXT.  ROAD TO MAIN AIRFIELD - DAY

Danny and Rafe are in Danny's Buick, hung over and asleep,

Danny in front, Rafe in back, and they're a miserable sight

-- their shirts ripped, blood dried in a leak trail from one

side of Rafe's nose and the corner of Danny's mouth.

The rumble of planes moving overhead makes them stir; the

rumble grows huge, as the shadows of a massive formation

makes the sunlight flicker.  Danny and Rafe squint up, their

heads pounding, and realize what they're seeing.  Suddenly

their headaches are gone, and Danny's gunning the Buick down

the road, toward the base.

EXT.  AIR BASE - DAY

Danny blasts through the main gate; the guards are too busy

taking cover and haven't even closed the barrier.

He races to the tarmac, where some of the planes are still

undamaged.  Rafe is out the door before the car stops

rolling, and Danny's right behind him.

They're running toward a cluster of fighters, when it goes up

with a bomb blast.  Rafe and Danny dive at each other; their

first instinct is to cover their best friend with their own

bodies.

They look at each other on the ground.  They see machine gun

bullets thudding into the planes on the flight line, and

ripping along the walls of the buildings.  It's as if the

whole Japanese airforce is attacking this one base, and not

leaving a single plane airworthy.

Danny sprints; Rafe follows.  Danny reaches a phone booth,

and digs a dime from his pants.

Danny dials, as waves of bullets sweep the area, and more

planes blow up on the flight line.  Rafe thinks he's lost his

mind.

He runs back toward the car; Rafe, in the nonsense of battle,

reaches in to hang up the receiver, before Danny grabs him

and leads him on a sprint to the car, as the phone booth

shatters behind them from the strafing.

On the way to the car they dive back to the ground to avoid

strafing -- and see their friends lying nearby, in shock.

He and Rafe jump up and run again.  Anthony, Red, and several

other pilots reach the Buick and dive in.  Danny drives away,

through the strafing.

As the Zero pilots see the Buick moving, they go after it.

Danny drives like a madman through the strafing, zigzagging

and gunning the Buick's V-8.

EXT.  THE OKLAHOMA - STILL AT ANCHOR - DAY

The number of attacking planes seems endless -- and their

strategy flawless.  Torpedoes hitting one ship lifts its hull

with a blast, enabling the next wave of torpedoes to rush

under and hit the next ship anchored behind.  The American

battleships are bobbing like see-saws.

The OKLAHOMA takes an entire barrage of torpedoes, blowing

thirty foot holes along it's hull; the ship immediately

begins to list.

INT.  THE OKLAHOMA - DAY

Doors are wedged shut by the deformation of the structure;

vertical ladders are becoming horizontal, and water is

pouring in.  Men fight their way up against the water.

INT.  INNER COMPARTMENT OF THE OKLAHOMA - DAY

Water is up to the trapped sailor's waists when they grab a

wrench and start taking turns pounding S.O.S. in Morse code

on the bulkhead.

EXT.  DECK OF OKLAHOMA - DAY

As the listing grows more severe, sailors start jumping from

the deck into the water.  Still the Marines on deck are

firing back at the planes; some Marines are even using

handguns.  But courage does not save them...

THE OKLAHOMA ROLLS OVER

The men still on its deck try to run, but it's not just the

fires and the water they can't escape; the gun turrets' 1400

pound shells break loose with the capsizing of the ship and

tumble through everything like massive wrecking balls.

The sailors and marines, thrown into the water, struggle to

get away from the suction as the giant battleship turns

turtle.

BELOW THE WATER men are sucked down with amazing force, every

hair on their heads streaming behind them as they're snatched

to the depths.

INSIDE THE OKLAHOMA, everyone and everything is spilling

upside down.  The ship's generators sputter out and the

lights go out.  The flashlights of the few sailors who can

find them cut raggedly through the darkness, and water spills

in.  There is no escape.

BELOW THE WATER, the Oklahoma's superstructure hits bottom;

some men are crushed there.  For others it's salvation, as

the BACKWASH blows them toward the surface.

ON THE SURFACE the men are launched almost completely out of

the water, before splashing back into the water and burning

oil.  A few feet of the steel hull and a portion of the

propeller protrude above the surface, but most of the

Oklahoma is under water.

Men in the water swim toward a medical launch carrying

wounded away from the wreckage.  A bomb hits the launch and

blows body parts everywhere.

INT.  OKLAHOMA - REAR COMPARTMENT

In one compartment there are a dozen trapped men.  They've

survived the roll-over, and are in a chaotic world where the

floor is now the ceiling.  The water is up their waists.

Some of the SAILORS are panicking.

One sailor has a flashlight and switches it on, flashing the

light from face to face.

But the water keeps rising, along with their fears.  Several

of the sailors are still screaming...

The water's already to their bellies.  One of them grabs a

wrench and starts slamming Morse code against the bulkhead.

One sailor in the middle of the room is particularly

panicked, not just yelling but crying and whimpering --

He's at the lower end of the compartment, where the water is

deeper -- the ship's nose is lower than her stern.  The

water's up to the guy's neck.

The man with the flashlight dives down, and finds the guys

foot wedged together in the pipes of the ships ceiling -- now

their floor.

He pops up again.  The water's up to the trapped guy's mouth;

he's already gagging.

They open it; tools spill out -- among them is a hacksaw.

They hand it to him; the sailor dives down and cuts off the

guy's foot.

The trapped man is underwater, muffling his scream.  He comes

free, and surfaces gasping.  His severed foot floats to the

surface and then the horror really hits them.  The sailor

with the flashlight pops up, in the blossoming of blood.  He

and another sailor tie a tourniquet around the stump, to stop

the bleeding.

The drama of this has caused the other trapped men to stop

their signaling.  Now they start banging, twice as loudly as

before.

EXT.  HALEIWA - AUXILIARY AIRFIELD - DAY

Haleiwa is a tiny airfield, tucked among the green volcanic

hills; its barely paved, and it's only permanent building is

a quonset hut.  A mechanic named EARL, is out with the

P-40's; and these are spread out, not bunched.

EARL AND THE P-40'S

The planes here have received loving care from Earl -- which

means lots of cursing; as he's wrestling to load an ammo

belt, he yells.

The Buick, bullet holes punched through the truck, slides to

a stop near the planes, and the pilots jump out.

What stops him is the cloud of Zeros and dive bombers,

shrieking in.

The guys scatter.  There are sandbags around the hut, and

they run there, diving into it's shelter just before the

first strafing pass, when a Zero strafes one of the P-40's

and a dive bomber blasts another.  Earl stands up in shock

and fury.

Danny pulls him down, as the Zeros roar overhead.

Danny, Rafe and Earl run to the planes that got hit and strip

out the 20mm cannons and ammo.

INT.  QUONSET HUT - DAY

The other pilots run in, throw open the gun locker, and start

grabbing weapons -- aircraft machine guns, ammo belts, one

even grabs a rifle.

SANDBAGS BY THE SHED

The two groups run back and start to set up.

Danny, Rafe and Earl run to a gully opposite the shed and set

up there, as the other pilots brace the machine guns against

the sandbags.

The Japanese planes attacks again.  This time the lead plane

hits a wall of steel fired from the combined guns; the

bullets chew into the bomb it carries and the plane EXPLODES.

The airborne debris makes the following planes shear off.

Red's standing, firing; he yells at the Zeros --

Red runs out with his machine gun and keeps firing even when

the planes have passed, trying to shoot them right up the

ass.

Earl shoots a look to Rafe, then turns to Danny.

Two of the pilots, Joe and Theo, run to Danny.

They race toward the planes, and the Japanese attack again.

Seeing the pilots running for the P-40's, the Zeros aim for

them; Rafe and Danny race for the most distant of the planes;

Joe and Theo run for the closer planes, through the dusty

bullet hits.

Theo makes his plane and is just strapping himself in when

bullets stitch his fuselage, wounding him.  He still forces

the plane forward.  He taxis twenty feet and his cockpit gets

chopped up and the plane arches into a right turn and putters

to a stop, Theo dead at the controls.

Joe doesn't bother to strap in; he hits the throttle hard and

heads down the runway...

The Zeros are on him as he gets ten feet of air at 120 M.P.H.

The Zero's bullets eat his canopy and plane skin; the plane

breaks apart in mid air, spilling in gouts of flame as it

smashes down on the tarmac.

Rafe and Danny have reaches the more distant P-40's and are

revving their engines as they see Joe and Theo's fate.  They

throw on their radio headsets.

Their way seems blocked:  they've got no runway behind them,

the wreckage of four P-40's scattered ahead of them, and the

Zeros screaming over the low hills to attack them.  Now Rafe

and Danny talk through the radio.

They gun their engines and roll through the grass on either

side of the runway, dodging the burning planes; they lift

off, clearing the quonset hut by a couple of inches.  They

blow right through the strafing fire, and into the sky.

Eight Zeros are all over them.

Earl is in the hut, on the radio and watching through

binoculars.

Danny's swiveling in his seat, looking left, right, back.

Danny understands immediately, following Rafe's tactic as he

breaks into a sharp turn and uses the hut, palm trees, and

low hills to shake the Japs.  They fly like crop dusters,

skimming down a foot from the ground, then bobbing up,

banking left and right.  The Zeros have divided into two

groups to chase them, their wings clipping tree tops as they

try to follow the Americans.

It feels like a 200 M.P.H. car chase, 20 feet off the ground,

Rafe and Danny skimming and bobbing over the terrain, but

there are too many Japanese.

Danny banks in one direction, Rafe in another...

EXT.  OVER THE LANDING STRIP - DAY

The two P-40's are screaming, rushing at each other like they

did at the training base back in the states, flying right

into each other's propellers; the Japanese heading after them

realize they're rushing headlong at the other group...

He can't even watch.

At the last instant Rafe and Danny snap a quarter spin so the

planes flash by belly to belly.

Two of the Zeros collide in mid-air, exploding, as the other

Zeros scatter.

EXT.  SKIES ABOVE PEARL HARBOR - DAY

Danny and Rafe rejoin each other in the open sky; they've

lost the Zeros.  The P-40's are flying smoothly, side by

side.  The two pilots look across at each other, going into

battle together.  They speak through their radios.

He fires a short burst to see if his guns work; they do.

Rafe does the same.  Up ahead they see a formation of

Japanese planes, headed toward Pearl.

They look across at each other.

Side by side the P-40's scream in.

EXT.  ABOVE OAHU - THE DOGFIGHT - DAY

The Japanese planes are in tight, disciplined formation,

their minds on the targets below them in the harbor.  But

their day of shooting sitting ducks changes as the two P-40's

blast in, wing guns blazing, chopping into Two Zeros.  Both

Zeros falter and begin to lose altitude.  The P-40's make

almost impossible tight turns, still side-by-side, and go

after the two plane they crippled on the first pass.

Rafe finishes one Zero, making it explode in a ball of flame

in the air.  Danny finishes the other, shooting off its wing

so that it spirals into the sea and crashes there.

The P-40's swoop up again.

The P-40's dig in again, swooping down on the line of Zeros.

Rafe hits first, machine gunning one plane, and Danny comes

in behind it, finishing it off.

The Japanese pilots are screaming at each other over their

radios, but their SQUADRON COMMANDER sees Pearl Harbor ahead,

and tells them --

The P-40's come through again, their guns spitting fire.

EXT.  ANOTHER JAPANESE FORMATION OF BOMBERS - DAY

These planes are different -- high altitude bombers with

three-man crews, high above the harbor.  The bombardier looks

through his sight and the bomb bays open.

THROUGH THE BOMBARDIER'S SIGHT, the ships look like tops, far

below.  The bombardier is ticking off the targets as they

pass, the first two he mentions already burning.

He flips his bomb switch, and a HUGE STEEL BOMB falls away.

EXT.  THE FLIGHT OF THE BOMB - DAY

We stay with the bomb as it falls through the sky.  The small

propeller on the bomb's nose spins in the air, running the

arming mechanism into the bomb's explosive core.  The bomb

wobbles a bit at first, but then as it gathers speed its fins

stabilize it, and it falls faster and faster, at a dizzying

rate, toward the Arizona.

It slams through the teak wood deck, and breaks it like

matchsticks.

It's tremendous weight and speed carry it through the next

deck, and the next, deep into the heart of the ship...toward

the powder room, where two million pounds of black powder are

waiting.

The bomb hits there, and the explosion is almost beyond

comprehension.  Over 1400 men die instantly.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

The battleship Arizona leaps into the air, the ship's spine

is broken, it's guts ripped open in one explosive instant.

Men on the deck are thrown into the burning oil already

floating on the water from the other ruptured ships, but

there are almost no survivors.

The concussion of the explosion blows men off the repair ship

Vestal, next to the Arizona, saving Vestal, as the explosion

snuffs out the fires on Vestal; it also sends tons of debris

down on her decks -- parts of the ship, legs, arms and heads

of men, all sorts of bodies.

Debris from the Arizona also cover the Tennessee and does

more damage than the two Japanese bombs that hit her.

INT.  HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - DAY

Medics have already started bringing in the wounded.  Evelyn

is like a frantic traffic cop.

THE FRONT WARD

Evelyn runs in, snaps open the cabinet, grabs a bag of

morphine sticks, and is about to run out again when she sees

the Arizona go up.

For a moment she's frozen, then she actually sees the shock

wave traveling across the bay and through the trees like an

invisible wall.  She's trying to cross her arms over her

face, and dive to the floor, just as the windows blow out

from the concussion, and glass flies over everything.

INT.  JAPANESE BOMBER - DAY

They see the results of their bomb, and are ecstatic.

EXT.  AIR ABOVE OAHU - DAY

The nose of Danny's plane is pointed right at the harbor and

he sees the sudden devastation of the Arizona.  It is a sight

so awesome it freezes him for a moment.

A Zero comes up behind him, firing.  Danny jerks his stick to

maneuver but he's caught...

Rafe comes in behind the Zero, chopping it up, even as he

yells at Danny over the radio --

They turn back after the line of Zeros.  There are some

Japanese planes coming after them now, but the P-40's head at

their noses, firing, then duck past in a double maneuver, and

turn right back into the Japanese formation.

Rafe has a plane in his sights, but his guns fire only a

short burst before stopping.

They head back.  A single Zero is on their way.  Rafe charges

it and draws its fire; Danny comes in behind the Zero and

rakes its cockpit; the Japanese pilot backs off.

The P-40's dive back toward Haleiwa.

A handful of Zeros returning from Pearl see them and follow.

EXT.  PACIFIC - JAPANESE CARRIERS - DAY

The second wave of planes takes off from the carriers.

INT.  FLIGHT CONTROL CENTER - CARRIER AKAGI - DAY

Genda reports to Yamamoto.

INT.  RADIO STATION KGBM - DAY

The DISC JOCKEY, handed a message by the army officer, stops

playing the soothing Hawaiian music and announces...

INT.  GENERAL SHORT'S OFFICE - DAY

General SHORT is in his office; he and his aides are working

frantically.

INT.  WHITE HOUSE - OVAL ROOM - DAY

President Roosevelt is having lunch in the Oval Room study

with Harry Hopkins.  The phone RINGS and Hopkins answers.

He listens, then puts the receiver down, shaken.

EXT.  HALEIWA - AUXILIARY AIRFIELD - DAY

The two P-40's drop out of the sky and bounce to a landing;

Anthony and Red have been pushing the wreckage off the field

with the Buick.  Danny and Rafe pull the P-40's behind the

burning quonset hut, and it's like a pit stop at a race

track; Earl rushes up and starts fueling the planes, their

engines still running.

Earl shouts instructions to the pilots.

The other pilots race to the wrecked P-40's and start pulling

out ammo belts.  Earl glares at the smoking engine of Danny's

plane, and the bullet holes.

Earl looks at Rafe's plane, more shot-up and abused than

Danny's.  Rafe grins and waves to him.  Earl mumbles a stream

of guttural and unintelligible obscenities.

The Zeros that followed them sweep down, strafing.  One

mechanic, running across the field with a belt of ammo, goes

down.  Coma, running behind him, picks up the fallen man's

ammo and his own, bringing both to the planes behind the hut.

He, Red, and Anthony reload the machine guns in Rafe and

Danny's planes.

Rafe and Danny gun their engines and head back into the air,

the grounded pilots firing a covering barrage and Earl even

coming up with a 12-gauge shotgun to fire at the Zeros as

they rush past.

EXT.  SKIES OVER PACIFIC - DAY

The Second Wave of Japanese planes is in tight formation.

INT.  LEAD PLANE OF SECOND WAVE - DAY

Lt. Commander SHIMAZAKI, leader of the second attack wave,

says calmly into his radio...

He leads the second wave in on their attack run...

EXT.  NAVAL AIR STATION - DAY

The navy's planes, bunched up on the naval airfield, are

destroyed without ever getting into the air.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

The harbor is already a mass of destruction and panic;

screaming everywhere, men trying to fight fires, move the

wounded; the second wave of planes hits, and tremendous

explosions now rock the secondary ships like the destroyer

SHAW, blasting it apart.

But the Japanese pilots are now having trouble with the thick

black smoke coming out of the damaged ships, and off the oil

fires along the water.  One torpedo plane, its pilot flying

blind, clips the superstructure of a battleship and spins to

a crash.

Still, even IN THE CHAOS ON THE SHIPS, the sailors struggle

to survive, inventively.  Men trapped on one burning ship use

the severed barrel of a five-inch naval gun as a bridge to

cross to the less damaged ship anchored beside them.

Others jump into the water and swim through the burning oil,

towing buddies too wounded to swim themselves.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

Below decks, sailors have organized a line and are passing

ammunition from the ammo lockers, hand to hand up to the guns

on deck.  Blasts from bombs hit them and ignite the ammo

they're holding, setting off a chain reaction of explosions.

On the deck, the sailors are out of ammo.  An OFFICER grabs a

SEVENTEEN YEAR OLD SAILOR.

The young sailor jumps to a dinghy and launches it through

the oily waters and thick black smoke.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

The sailors in the boat get strafed, the rounds cutting

between them and blasting their boat in two.  They jump into

the oily water and swim toward shore.

Other sailors are in the water with them, struggling,

swallowing the vile black liquid as they battle to swim.

Errant bombs and shrapnel hit beside them, killing some;

other lose strength and slide beneath the surface.

The sailors from the ammo boat make it ashore; it's hot there

too, with bullets and bombs all around.  One sailor has to

stop and puke from the oil; his buddy grabs him and they run

for cover; they find it in the dugout of the baseball

diamond.

EXT.  NAVAL STATION - DAY

A MARINE GUNNERY SERGEANT leads men in a race through

strafing fire to the bases ammo storeroom.

INT.  AMMO STOREROOM - DAY

The SUPPLY SERGEANT is at his post.

He pushes the man out of the way and starts grabbing weapons.

EXT.  NAVAL STATION - DAY

The gunnery sergeant and his marines run with a water-cooled

machine gun, across the open ground, under fire.

BARRACKS

The Marines set up in the windows of their already-strafed

barracks, and start firing there, as the Zeros scream past.

EXT.  NAVAL STATION - DAY

Trucks are moving dependents -- women and children -- from

the dependents' housing area.  The Japanese strafe the

trucks, dependents diving for cover.

NAVAL STATION

A fire engine from the Honolulu Fire Department races up to

the sight of buildings burning from the air attack.  As the

firemen jump out, a Zero strafes them, gunning down the

firemen.

As the strafing Zero starts to bank away, two P-40's come in

behind it, both of them gunning away.  The Zero comes apart

under the barrage, and crashes in a ball of flame.

It's Rafe and Danny, back in the air.

INT.  MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - DAY

The once-pristine hospital with its glowing white beds is now

a bloody chaos.  Every bed is already full; there are burned

and broken people on the floor -- soldiers, sailors,

civilians, firemen, all mixed in together.  People are dying

everywhere, and screaming in pain, or moaning and begging for

help.  At first we don't see Evelyn, and wonder if she

survived the glass; then we see her, flecks of her own blood

dotting her face and arms.  The blood of soldiers on her

surgical apron.  A steel calm has replaced her earlier

frenzy, even as the other nurses are breaking down.

A young doctor is trying to give an intravenous injection to

a man who's badly charred; the doctors hands are shaking.

The doctors are amputating limbs right there in the hallway.

A SENIOR DOCTOR calls --

Evelyn moves to the door.  Trucks are pulling up, loaded with

the wounded, young terrified soldiers bringing them inside;

Evelyn does quick triage as they pass.

The next body through is a pilot, wings on his uniform, his

chest riddled with bullets -- and his face shot off.  For a

moment Evelyn falters, then she forces herself to check the

dog tags...

It isn't Rafe or Danny.  Evelyn sags in guilty relief.

She steadies herself as the next body comes through, a woman

on a stretcher, her stomach shot open, pale hands clutching

at the open wound.  Evelyn feels for a pulse.

It's Betty.

And though the bombs are blasting and guns booming

everywhere, the world goes silent for Evelyn.

One of the sailors outside the door is pointing to the

harbor, the Nevada has begun to move.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

The battleship NEVADA is underway, plowing through the

harbor, as the water erupts with bombs.

INT.  THE NEVADA'S BRIDGE - DAY

The Captain is struggling to save his ship.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - POV THE ATTACKING PLANES - DAY

The lead pilot in the next squad of Japanese planes spots the

moving battleship, and leads his squadron on it.

They come whipping in over the waves, dropping torpedoes and

bombs.

INT.  THE NEVADA'S BRIDGE - DAY

The Nevada's Captain feels the ship shudder as it takes hits

amidships.

His officers relay the order to the helm, and the ship's

rudder turns as more blasts rip her hull.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

The Nevada swings off its course and runs aground.

INT.  THE NEVADA'S DYNAMO ROOM - DAY

The impact jolts the boilers, already bursting with the steam

pressure; gouts of steam from rupturing pipes scalds and

blinds the engine room crew.

EXT.  THE NEVADA - DAY

The Nevada, run aground at the shoreline, is now like a beast

cut from the herd; the predators swarm after it with

torpedoes and bombs.

One torpedo, missing the Nevada, skims right up the beach

itself and blasts a house on the shore to fragments.

Bombs detonate along the Nevada, engulfing the entire upper

deck in flames, ravaging the sailors.

EXT.  HOSPITAL - DAY

The Nevada is grounded near the hospital; from the doorway

Evelyn can see the whole ship on fire, burning sailors

leaping off the decks.  Her hearing, her presence of mind,

returns; she lets Betty go, and grabs an ORDERLY.

The orderly races away.  They can still hear the bombs

falling outside.

A sailor staggers toward the hospital from the Nevada.  He is

completely gray.  Everyone stares at him, and then realizes

he is nude, burned gray, his skin ash.

Evelyn rushes to help him, shouting back over her shoulder to

the other nurses --

EXT.  JAPANESE CARRIER - FLIGHT DECK - DAY

The first wave of planes lands on the carrier.  The flight

leader rushes to the bridge.

INT.  JAPANESE CARRIER - BRIDGE - DAY

Yamamoto's advisors are exultant.

Yamamoto nods and Fuchida's voice comes over the intercom.

EXT.  SKIES ABOVE PEARL HARBOR - DAY

Fuchida is in a scout plane, high over Pearl.  His vision is

hampered by the thick black smoke, but he can tell there has

been awesome devastation.  He uses a diagram of the ships at

anchor to note the damage to each ship.

INT.  WAR ROOM OF THE AKAGI - DAY

EXT.  JAPANESE CARRIER AKAGI - DAY

The last planes touch down, and the lead carrier and the

other ships in the Japanese assault fleet turn back toward

home.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - AFTERMATH - DAY

The harbor is a place of shattered bodies and shattered

ships.  Blood, body parts, debris everywhere, and all of it

made more hellish by the oil fires on the water and the

choking black smoke those fires produce.

Every survivor has become an emergency fireman, stretcher

bearer, medic, iron worker.  They fish men from the water,

extract them from the tangled wreckage of the ships.

Everyone is screaming and yelling -- the wounded for help,

the helpers for more help.

Local firemen and civilians battle heroically too; the water

mains are ruptured, so they put pump water from the base

swimming pool toward the burning ships.

The PHOTOGRAPHER records this with his black-and-white film

camera.  He is shaken, and yet he understands the magnitude

of what he is recording -- the loss of America's innocence.

EXT.  ARMY BASE - AFTERMATH - DAY

In one place, outside a barracks, soldiers hit by the bombs

are just becoming conscious.  One of them comes to.

He's crawling around toward the bushes; his legs are

shattered, but he's spotted a body.  He reaches it, turns it

over -- and it's headless.

He turns away in horror...and finds himself staring at the

severed head.

The medics appear.

EXT.  GENERAL SHORT'S OFFICE - DAY

The Western Union messenger, Tadao Fuchikami, delivers the

telegram from Washington.

INT.  GENERAL SHORT'S OFFICE - DAY

Short and his staff are assessing damage.

An aide hands Short the telegram.  He reads it --

The irony is bitter in his throat.

EXT.  JAPANESE EMBASSY - OAHU - DAY

The Honolulu police roar up to the embassy in squad cars, and

burst through the doors.

INT.  JAPANESE EMBASSY - OAHU - DAY

The police storm through the embassy and find the Japanese

there burning documents.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - AFTERMATH - DAY

Divers are going down, trying to save the trapped men.  But

the tangle of the Arizona is horrific.  One diver gets

trapped, and another tries to extricate him, and the steel

shifts and falls on them both.

ON THE DECK OF BOMB-SHATTERED BATTLESHIP, a naval CAPTAIN

oversees rescue efforts.  The 17-year-old sailor he sent off

for ammo now approaches him, with great concern.

The captain looks out over the wreckage, great battleships

devastated in every direction.

EXT.  HOSPITAL - PEARL HARBOR - NIGHT

Danny and Rafe arrive at the hospital.  Their fears of what

they might find aren't helped when they see the stairs into

the hospital covered in blood.

INT.  HOSPITAL - PEARL HARBOR - NIGHT

Rafe and Danny enter.  It's a scene from hell.  Doctors are

doing amputations in the hallway.  The once-pristine hospital

is now all red, with blood dripping through the mattresses,

onto the floor...

In the main ward, Evelyn and the other nurses are using the

fly sprayers to spritz cooling antiseptic on the charred

bodies.  Evelyn looks up and sees both Rafe and Danny.  Her

eyes register relief, but they are the only part of her that

can show emotion now; the rest of her is covered in blood.

Rafe and Danny move to her.

INT.  HOSPITAL - PEARL HARBOR - NIGHT

Rafe and Danny sit quietly as Evelyn adjusts the tubes

conducting blood from their arms into sterilized Coke bottles

for transfusion.

She stops, afraid if she says more, she'll lose grip on her

emotions.  She can see the wreckage out in the harbor.

She goes back to her work.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

Rafe and Danny hop from the ambulance in which they've

hitched a ride to the harbor.  They see the awful

devastation.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - NIGHT

Rafe and Danny reach the West Virginia's pier, but in the

darkness, they can't find anything.  They stop a NAVAL

OFFICER.

He points; the battleship has sunk, its superstructure barely

showing above the water.

It looks hopeless to find a single sailor here; but then they

see a powerful black sailor, pulling to the dock with a

dinghy full of dead men retrieved from the water.  As workers

unload the bodies, the black sailor sits down, exhausted

physically and emotionally, his head in his hands.  Rafe and

Danny approach him.

Miller nods, and looks out over the harbor, a hellish place

where black smoke still hangs over everything, the shattered

remains of men and ships still in the harbor.  It's total

devastation.  And yet something about that scene stirs

something else in Dorie Miller.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - AFTERMATH - NIGHT

Dorie pilots the dinghy through the floating debris.  Rafe

and Danny sit with him.  He stops over a dangerous pile of

superstructure wreckage.

Rafe and Danny brace the dinghy so it doesn't move; but they

still don't see what Dorie is after as he fishes down in the

water, for something barely at the surface; he works for a

moment, then pulls it up.

It's the oil-soaked flag of the Arizona.

EXT.  HULL OF OKLAHOMA - NIGHT

Men are working through the night to save the sailors trapped

in the hull.

INT.  OKLAHOMA - THE TRAPPED SAILORS

are in total darkness.  From it we hear GASPING, then --

The light comes on and sweeps around the faces.  The water is

up to their chests, but it's stopped rising.

He switches the light off again.

EXT.  HULL OF OKLAHOMA - NIGHT

The welders are cutting away, the torches sending showers of

sparks everywhere.

INT.  OKLAHOMA - THE TRAPPED SAILORS

They are gasping, running out of air.

Something stirs in the ship; a noise...from where?  Then a

point of light; sparks fly into the room; somebody's cutting

through the wall.  And the sparks illuminate faces suddenly

filled with hope.

But as the cut enlarges, the trapped air, compressed by the

water, starts rushing out -- and the water starts rising

again.  The trapped sailors hope turns to terror.

The steel circle pops out, and they knock the welders down in

their hurry to escape.

Some of the sailors who were trapped are naked.  They fight

their way toward the escape hole cut into the hull, assisted

by rescue workers.

EXT.  HULL OF OKLAHOMA - NIGHT

The trapped sailors emerge, and they can barely take in the

devastation.  Destroyed ships everywhere, the smoking

wreckage... The rescued sailors gaze around them in shock.

They are shivering, and other sailors put blankets around

them.

EXT.  WHITE HOUSE - DAY

The entire Washington press corps is waiting, with fresh

bulbs in the flash attachments of cameras that are already as

big as a shoe box.  The President is wheeled out of the White

House, and not a single photographer takes a picture...not

yet.

Aides help Roosevelt from the chair, and the press people all

see the President struggle on legs that have no strength, to

the podium.  His aides lock the steel clasps at the knees of

his braces into place, and the President stands at the

microphone.  And suddenly, from the front, Roosevelt looks

powerful, even majestic.

Now all the bulbs pop and flash.  He looks into the cameras.

OVER THIS, we see the bombing, the aftermath, the bodies

being fished from the oil-soaked harbor.

EXT.  PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY

The Japanese fleet steams back toward Japan.  The young

officers are exultant...but Yamamoto is pensive.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - DAY

We see rows of bodies outside the hospital where Evelyn

works.

The mess hall has been converted to a silent morgue, with

bodies on every table.

OVER THIS, EXT.  ISLANDS - NIGHT

We see Japanese planes bombing islands, and soldiers

attacking amphibious landings.

EXT.  WHITE HOUSE - DAY

The words echoes out across America --

It rings through the radios of farm houses, to country boys

gathered round; in the pool halls of big cities; in the fire

houses and high schools...

THE LINES AT RECRUITING STATIONS all across America -- men

line up faster than the recruiters can handle them.

INT.  WHITE HOUSE - DAY

Roosevelt meets with his advisors.

Roosevelt places his hands on the arms of his wheelchair, and

struggles to lift himself.  Aides jump to help him, but he

waves them off.  With inhuman physical effort, that has his

neck veins bulging and sweat popping on his face, Roosevelt

stands on his withered legs.

EXT.  PEARL HARBOR - HICKAM BASE - DAY

There is a mass memorial service going on, with caskets

draped in flags.

There are also coffins covered in Japanese flags, their

drowned fliers being treated now with respect.

Everyone is in their best uniforms.  The pilots -- Rafe,

Danny, and the other guys -- are looking at Billy's coffin;

Evelyn, next to Danny, on his appropriate side is looking at

one that belongs to Betty.  So is Red; he's grieving.

Rafe and Evelyn exchange a glance, past Danny.

As the mourners disperse, Evelyn puts a lei on Betty's

casket; Red does the same, then breaks down beside Danny.  As

Danny comforts him, Evelyn moves to Rafe.

An Army Corps MAJOR steps up and interrupts.

Danny sees him and moves up.

He hands them both orders.

EXT.  HICKAM FIELD - DAY

The wrecked planes have been pushed off the runway and lie in

piles.  A transport plane is fueling, and Rafe and Danny wait

in the shade of a shelter.

The Major, watching the fueling, gets a wave from the ground

crew and turns and motions to Rafe and Danny that they're

ready.  They pick up their duffel bags -- and then Evelyn

comes around the corner of the shelter.

Rafe sees her first, but stops and looks away as Danny moves

to her.  For a moment he studies her eyes, and she does not

look away.

He takes her into his arms, kisses her tenderly but briefly,

a final time.  Evelyn's eyes find Rafe, but he can't look at

her until the embrace is over.

Rafe and Danny move to the plane and hurry up the steps.

They turn before the door closes and wave to her.

Evelyn's still standing there as the plane lifts away.

INT.  U.S. MILITARY INSTALLATION - NIGHT

The transport has landed and taxied right to the door of a

low, dark bunker, mostly underground.  The Major leads Rafe

and Danny inside.

INT.  BUNKER

Rafe and Danny follow the Major down a spartan corridor; the

whole place reeks of secrecy.

INT.  BUNKER - SECRECY ROOM - NIGHT

The Major opens the door for Rafe and Danny, then leaves,

closing it behind him.  Doolittle is alone at a desk.  Rafe

and Danny walk in and salute.  Doolittle motions to the two

chairs in front of the desk without looking up from the

papers he's studying.

Doolittle looks up from his paperwork for the first time.

His eyes are fierce.

EXT.  ESTABLISHING EGLIN FIELD, FLORIDA - DAY

Eglin Field is on the gulf coast of Florida.

INT.  BRIEFING ROOM - EGLIN FIELD - DAY

A room full of PILOTS are assembled, with and other CREWMEN.

Danny and Rafe are there; Red and Anthony too.

Colonel Doolittle strides into the room as all the men snap

to attention.

Danny and Rafe whisper to each other --

Rafe elbows his ribs so hard it takes his breath away.

EXT.  EGLIN FIELD - RUNWAY - DAY

CLOSE - A B-25 bomber, from different angles.

The pilots look them over, liking what they see.

They look down the runway a few hundred feet.  A private

waves, and starts painting a red line across the runway.

Another private, close by, paints a green line.

MONTAGE - THE TRAINING - EGLIN FIELD - DAY

The pilots practice takeoff's.  Red is Rafe's copilot;

Anthony is Danny's.  Nobody can get airborne before the red

line.

INT.  EGLIN FIELD - LECTURE ROOM - DAY

Doolittle is instructing the men.

Rafe is distracted; he's lost in though, looking at Danny --

and looks away just before Danny realizes it.

MONTAGE CONTINUES - EXT.  EGLIN FIELD RUNWAY - DAY

Pilots practice hard, revving the engines, taking off

hard...all of them crossing the red line, takeoff after

takeoff.  Rafe pushes his engine hard and still crosses by

twenty feet; Danny pushes even harder, and misses by ten

feet.

Doolittle watches with Greening from the edge of the runway.

INT.  HANGER - EGLIN FIELD - DAY

Greening has removed the intensely complex Norden sight from

a bomber and put in on a table for Doolittle.

He shows Doolittle an aluminum strip on a swivel.

EXT.  EGLIN FIELD - DAY

Doolittle pilots a B-25 at treetop level onto a practice

bombing range.  Greening uses the makeshift sight, and drops

a 500-lb sack of flour, right in the middle of the bull's-eye

target chalked on the ground.

EXT.  FLORIDA COAST - DAY

The B-25's are practicing, flying at treetop level.  Red is

Rafe's copilot, Anthony is Danny's.  Doolittle is flying the

lead bomber.

Rafe brings his plane down, smoothly.  Then Danny's plane

appears -- under him.  Rafe jerks his nose up quickly.

Rafe's angry; Danny's laughing -- but he scares the shit out

of his crew.

EXT.  EGLIN FIELD - NIGHT

Danny's outside, looking up at the moon.  Rafe appears and

moves up beside him.

Danny's anger flares for a moment -- but Rafe's hit home.

Danny's caught off-guard.

They embrace, closer now than ever.

MONTAGE - INTERCUT

with the planes practicing their short takeoffs, we see

Roosevelt in one of his fireside chats, his voice broadcast

across America...

Families all across America are gathered around radios,

listening.

The FAMILIES do, gathering around encyclopedias, school

books, any reference they have, spread on kitchen tables,

suburban living room rugs, or farmhouse hearths...

And the B-25's, all sixteen of them, begin a journey in

formation, flying at treetop level across America:

Mississippi delta land, Texas plains, Arizona mesas...

The formation of B-25's reaches San Francisco.

EXT.  SAN FRANCISCO NAVAL AIR STATION - DAY

Doolittle leads the bombers to a landing.  IN RAFE'S PLANE,

everybody's wondering why they're here.

EXT.  SAN FRANCISCO AIR FIELD - DAY

The crews climb from their planes, and almost before they're

out, teams of men use straps and cranes to hoist the bombers

onto flatbed trucks.  Doolittle walks up to Rafe and Danny,

watching the baffling operation.

EXT.  SAN FRANCISCO HARBOR - EVENING

Cranes lift the planes from the trucks and hoist them onto

the flight decks of the carrier USS HORNET.  The pilots stand

on the pier, watching.

They all gather around Doolittle as he moves up to them.

Doolittle walks to join a captain.

INT./ EXT.  SAN FRANCISCO HOTEL - NIGHT

The pilots get off the bus and carry their duffels into the

lobby.

INT.  LOBBY - NIGHT

The other guys drop their duffels with the bell hops; Rafe

moves to the reception desk.

The manager hands him a key, and smiles curiously.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Rafe enters his room and finds the light on...and Evelyn's

there waiting.

The blood drains from Rafe's heart.  Yet he finds the

strength to move to her.  She turns away, so she won't throw

her arms around him.

She shakes her head, refuses to cry.

She turns and faces him again.

She looks at him, her eyes bright with tears, but still she

refuses to cry.  They both know they can't touch, or they'll

never let go.  She walks past him, out of the room, closing

the door softly behind her.

EXT.  SAN FRANCISCO HARBOR - DAY

The USS HORNET clears the Golden Gate Bridge, with cruisers

and destroyers rounding out its battle group.

Rafe and Danny stand on the flight deck, watching the city

recede behind them.

Evelyn is on a hilltop watching them go.  Danny can't see

her, doesn't know she's there.  Rafe can't see her either --

but he knows.

INT.  THE CARRIER HORNET - BRIEFING ROOM - DAY

The pilots are gathered expectantly in the carrier's

conference room.  Doolittle strides in.

The pilots love it.  The ones who have not seen battle are

grinning and vocal.  Rafe, Danny, Anthony, and Red are

quieter, savoring the prospect of revenge.

Suddenly the pilots don't like the sound of this.

Absolute silence among the pilots.

EXT.  FLIGHT DECK OF THE HORNET - DAY

The sailors who man the flight deck look at each other with

bafflement as the worried pilots pace from one end of the

deck to the other.  They're in a line like ducks, Rafe in the

lead and the others following, counting steps, each man

measuring the distance.  Shaking their heads, worrying.

They stop at the end and look down at the sea far below them;

it's dizzying.  Anthony shoves Red for fun before grabbing

his shoulder to stop him from falling.

He starts pacing back the other way, as if the ship's longer

in that direction.  The other pilots watch him for a moment,

then follow him, counting again.

Rafe and Danny are left standing alone at the end of the

flight deck.  Far over the surging sea.

Doolittle appears right beside them.

Doolittle walks away.

EXT.  PACIFIC - A FEROCIOUS STORM - NIGHT

The Hornet tosses, bashed by a vicious storm.

INT.  CARRIER HORNET - BRIEFING ROOM - DAY

The ships is rolling; most of the fliers are green.

Doolittle stands at the podium.

He looks at a pile of paper slips in front of him.

EXT.  PACIFIC - DAY

The storm is subsiding, but it's still raining.  From the

bridge of the Hornet, they spot the ENTERPRISE.

EXT.  FLIGHT DECK - THE HORNET - DAY

The preparations begin.  Deck crews move the B-25's to the

rear of the flight deck.  Fueling teams top off the bomber's

gas tanks.  Ordnance men hoist four bombs into each aircraft,

and the army gunners load ammunition for the machine guns.

Greening checks the planes' mechanical and hydraulic systems.

And once again the pilots are out pacing the deck distance.

It's turned into a game for them, walking off nerves.  As

Rafe and Danny pass.

INT.  HORNET - BRIEFING ROOM - DAY

Doolittle is laying out the plan for all the pilots.

Doolittle looks around the room.  No one's smiling.

EXT.  BRIDGE OF THE CRUISER NASHVILLE - DAY

The cruiser Nashville is at the perimeter of the task force.

It's lookouts spot Japanese patrol boats ahead.

INT.  BRIDGE OF THE ENTERPRISE - DAY

The message is handed to Admiral Halsey.

EXT.  PACIFIC - DAY

The cruiser NASHVILLE begins firing rounds at the Japanese

patrol boat; round after round misses.

INT.  HORNET'S RADIO ROOM - DAY

The operators hear the excited voices of Japanese radio

traffic.

EXT.  HORNET - DAY

Doolittle hurries up to the command bridge, with the naval

officers sent by the Admiral to fetch him.  Doolittle sees

the cruisers next to the carrier firing its guns -- at

Japanese boats in the distance.

INT.  BRIDGE OF THE HORNET - DAY

Doolittle finds the Admiral gathered with his staff, their

mood is grim.

INT.  PILOT'S WARD ROOMS - SERIES OF DISSOLVES

Rafe, Danny, and the other pilots are alone at their bunks,

taking advantage of the lull before the mission.

Rafe has paper and pen to write a letter, but he can't think

of anything to write.

Danny holds the "Picture of Paradise" that Sammy took, of

Evelyn and the nurses in the sun.  He tucks it inside his

shirt, when he hears --

EXT.  FLIGHT DECK - THE HORNET - DAY

The pilots run onto deck.  The cruiser next to the Hornet is

still firing away at the Japanese patrol boat.

Doolittle runs onto deck, shouting orders.

EXT.  HORNET - FLIGHT DECK - STRIPPING THE PLANES - DAY

It's starting to rain but the guys don't notice at all.

They're stripping seats out of the planes, tossing out their

own gear.

Greening pulls the machine guns out of the rear of the planes

and puts in broomsticks painted black.

Off in the distance the Japanese patrol boat takes a hit and

explodes.  Rafe and Danny meet between their bombers.

They climb into their bombers.

EXT.  HORNET - FLIGHT DECK - DAY

The engines are revving.  The tachs are showing redline.  The

crews are in their planes.  Doolittle is first, just ahead of

Rafe and Danny's B-25's.

The battle pennants whip, the props blur, the wheels strain

against the brakes; from the cockpits the flight deck looks

impossibly short...and the American flag cracks in the wind.

And now every pilot looks at Doolittle's plane...

Doolittle starts the run down the flight deck...faster...the

end looming.  He turns the plane almost vertical, standing it

on its props...and lifts away smoothly.

The sailors on deck cheer, like the Japanese did before Pearl

Harbor.

Rafe, Danny, and the others take off too.

EXT.  SKIMMING OVER THE WAVES - DAY

The B-25's head toward Japan.

EXT.  PACIFIC - THE AMERICAN TASK FORCE - DAY

Admiral Halsey, on the deck of the ENTERPRISE, watches as the

last plane takes off.  The planes recede in the distance,

racing just a few feet over the water, toward Japan.

The task force runs for home.

EXT.  SKIMMING OVER THE WAVES - DAY

At first the planes are together; Rafe and Danny can see each

other off each other's wing, and Doolittle's plane is ahead.

The others are grouped after them.  They maintain strict

radio silence, and can communicate only with gestures, hand

signals, or a flasher for Morse code.  When Rafe speaks to

the crew of his own plane, it's by pressing an intercom

sender to his throat.

The bombardier/navigator is already working out the numbers

at his plotting table in the center of the plane.

Rafe looks over to Danny and gives him a thumbs up.

INT.  DANNY'S PLANE - DAY

Danny calls back to his GUNNER, who is watching the fuel

supply.

The gunner is already pouring gas into the tanks from the

extra cans.

Anthony stands and moves back to the rear of the plane, pulls

a piece of chalk from his pocket and writes on the nose of

the bombs -- "For America,"  "For Pearl Harbor,"  "For the

Arizona,"  "For Billy."

-- Rafe flies, lost in thought...

-- Evelyn is back at Pearl, struggling to keep her mind on

-- Danny is looking at his gauges, then at the picture in

EXT.  TOKYO - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY

It's a pleasant day, and the people of Tokyo are in a

confident, happy mood.  They're shopping, smiling, enjoying

beautiful spring weather.  The Emperor is on the garden of

his palace having lunch.

EXT.  SKIMMING OVER THE WAVES - DAY

The American planes are coming.

INT.  DOOLITTLE'S PLANE - DAY

He and his navigator confer.

His copilot uses the flashes to signal the other planes.

They break off for their individual targets, every plane now

on it's own.

INT.  JAPANESE AIR DEFENSE STATION - DAY

This is the nerve center of Tokyo's defense.  An OFFICER

receives a message and reports to his supervisor.

EXT.  SKIMMING OVER THE WAVES - DAY

The planes reach the Japanese coastline, and start skimming

over treetop level.

EXT.  TOKYO - DAY

The office of an anti-aircraft battery blows its whistle; his

crew mount their guns and swerves them around.  The officer

whistle's again and checks his watch.

The crew dismount their guns; just a drill.

EXT.  TOKYO - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY

The Japanese people are unaware of the drill.  People are

browsing through open-air shops, where new radios are turned

on, playing music.  And Tokyo Rose is talking -- in English

and Japanese.

INT.  THE PLANES - DAY

Coma, Danny's navigator, picks this up.

These words go through the plane; and in the other planes

they hear it too.

EXT.  TOKYO - DAY

The planes reach Tokyo, and flash across the rooftops.

INT.  DANNY'S PLANE - DAY

Danny and Rafe give each other a wave, and divert toward

their separate targets.  Each plane is on its own now.

EXT.  TOKYO - DAY

Doolittle's plane flashes right over the Emperor's palace.

The Emperor sits in the garden, meditating.

EXT.  TOKYO - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY

Mothers walking their children see the planes flash by

overhead, and like the people at Pearl, they think they are

friendlies.  A toddler points up and smiles.  His mother

picks him up and hugs him happily.

INT.  THE PLANES - DAY

Rafe's bombardier works his 20-cent bombsight, as Rafe holds

the plane steady, bringing it up to 200 feet.

They scan for fighter or anti-aircraft fire.  There isn't

any.

DANNY'S PLANE runs toward its target...

DOOLITTLE'S PLANE races over Tokyo...

The bombardier hits the first switch.  The bomb falls toward

a factory.

It strikes home, right on target.  The blast is shocking --

it blows debris higher than the plane.

EXT.  TOKYO - THE BOMBING - VARIOUS SHOTS

The individual planes drop their bombs, four per plane, on

shipyards, factories, oil supplies, weapons facilities.

Their bombing is highly accurate.

On the ground, at the open-air market, for a brief moment

Radio Tokyo goes silent; then --

EXT.  THE EMPEROR'S PALACE - DAY

The Emperor looks up at the sound of air raid sirens and

distant explosions.

INT.  RAFE'S PLANE - DAY

It slams into a factory, blowing debris everywhere and

turning the factory into an inferno.

Rafe's tail gunner sees Zeros swarming in with vengeance.

Rafe changes course quickly.

INT.  DANNY'S PLANE - DAY

Anti-aircraft FLAK bursts in the sky in front of them; Danny

takes evasive action.

INT.  RAFE'S PLANE - ABOVE TOKYO - DAY

Rafe pushes the engines to top speed and changes course

again; but the B-25's can't outrun the Zeros.  Their fire

chews into the bomber's tail, hitting the gunner.  Red

scrambles back to find the gunner dead.

Red reacting to bullets coming through the rear of the

fuselage, looks at the brooms protruding from the rear of the

plane.

As the bombardier, navigator, and Red jump onto the other

machine guns, Rafe looks for a way out.  He dives down toward

the city.  The Zeros follow.

EXT.  SKIES OVER TOKYO - DAY

Rafe takes the B-25 right down among the buildings, sometimes

even having to spin the wings to get through.  The Zeros

can't keep up with this...

But Rafe can't keep it up long, either; they break out into

open ground rail yards, where there's no place for him to

hide...

The Zeros come in to chew him up...

But they take fire from another B-25 -- Danny's -- coming in

to save Rafe's plane.  Rafe now uses the radio.

But Danny stays, mixing it up with the Zeros; with both

B-25's together, their machine guns down one Zero and damage

another.  But there are too many.

Rafe sees clouds coming in, and fog.

The bombers race toward the clouds, and make it; the Zeros

lose them.

EXT.  SKIES - BROKEN CLOUDS - DAY

Rafe and Danny keep broken contact through the clouds, and

settle in for the long run to China.

INT.  RAFE'S COCKPIT - DAY

INT.  DANNY'S PLANE - DAY

Anthony reads the Morse code.

Danny looks across to Rafe and shakes his head.

INT.  ROOSEVELT'S RESIDENCE - HYDE PARK, NY - DAY

Roosevelt is at his desk when General Marshall enters.

EXT.  SEA OF JAPAN - DUSK

They've climbed above the clouds; the fliers are exhausted.

The sun is beginning to set.  Rafe stares at it...

INT.  HOSPITAL - PEARL HARBOR - DUSK

The place is white again -- the white of bandages and casts.

Everyone is busy, and even the wounded are looking out for

each other; a man with his arms in an airplane splint holds a

spoon and feeds a badly burned buddy.  Evelyn and her

overworked nurses are looking after the critical cases.  But

as she covers the windows with blackout curtains, she stops

for just a moment to stare at the sun's last rays.

EXT.  SKIES OVER PACIFIC - NIGHT

Colonel Doolittle can make out mountains below them.

Just then his engines start to sputter.

He puts the plane on auto-pilot and the men move to the

hatches.  Three guys go out; it's just Doolittle and his

copilot left.

They jump.

INT.  DANNY'S PLANE - NIGHT

Coma moves up to Danny.

Danny gestures across to Rafe that he hears nothing in his

radio phones.  Rafe gestures the same thing back.

They look down and the entire ground is covered with clouds.

EXT.  SKIES OVER PACIFIC - NIGHT

They drop flares; they disappear into the cloud cover and

tell them nothing.

EXT.  SKIES - RAFE AND DANNY'S PLANE - NIGHT

Danny's engines are sputtering; his gunner pours the last

drops of gas into the tanks.

Red sees Anthony signal.

Rafe yells at Danny, as if he could hear --

Through a break in the clouds they spot a rocky shoreline.

Red signals; Danny's plane signals back.

Rafe looks over at Danny, who is gesturing; he gives up on

the hand signals and grabs the flasher; Red reads the Morse

code...

Rafe grabs the flasher and angrily flashes back two letters.

Rafe turns his bomber and Danny follows, their planes arcing

down toward the rocky coast; it's hairy, the clouds masking

their view, as the altimeter winds down... At the last moment

they see rocks looming out of the surf.

INT.  RAFE'S PLANE - NIGHT

He's shouting to his crew --

INT.  DANNY'S PLANE - NIGHT

His engines are sputtering, catching, sputtering; he fights

to stay in control.

EXT.  CHINA COAST - NIGHT

Rafe's plane settles down toward the water; he guns the

engine to level out, and the plane skims across the surface;

then the propellers catch and the plane stops like it hit a

wall, flipping over it's nose.

DANNY'S PLANE is struggling; when he tries to add throttle,

the engines sputter out.  The plane drops, skips once on the

surface, then hits a shoreline rock belly first.

Danny and Anthony are ejected through the top of the

fuselage; Coma is hurled forward right through the glass nose

of the plane.

INT.  RAFE'S PLANE - NIGHT

Rafe and Red come to in the plane inverted and sinking.  They

react, unbuckling, grabbing for their crewmates as the plane

is quickly filling.  The navigator and gunner are

unconscious; the bombardier is dead.  Red struggles with the

hatch and can't make it budge.

They struggle to breath as the water envelops them.  But as

the water reaches the top, Rafe takes a last breath and dives

to the hatch; it comes open, and they swim up, dragging the

rest of the crew.

EXT.  CHINA COAST - NIGHT

They break the surface, and struggle to shore with the

unconscious navigator and gunner.

Rafe's looking everywhere; he sees Danny's plane crashed

against the rock.  He fights his way through the surf to

Danny's plane, Red following.

Rafe finds Danny face up in the water.

Red finds Anthony on the rock.  He's face up, but as Red

lifts him he finds the back of Anthony's head is gone.

The rest of Danny's crew are floating in the surf, dead.

Rafe and Red pull Danny to shore.

Danny's eyes flutter open; he sees Rafe and mumbles --

Danny's hand gropes to his throat; Rafe finds a V shaped

shard of the fuselage hooked into his neck.

Rafe grabs it, trying to bend it open; the sharp metal cuts

his hands, but he keeps straining.  It won't work, He pulls

his .45 from his jacket and tries to pry the metal.  It works

a bit; he tosses the pistol aside and grabs the shard again,

and opens it.

Rafe's head snaps forward, crunched with the butt of a rifle;

a Japanese patrol, four men, have arrived.  They're angry,

scared, hyped.  They knock Red down too, yelling and

brandishing their rifles at the fliers on the beach, living

and dead.

The Japanese officer is barking orders.  They find the

Captain's insignia on Danny's jacket, and begin binding him

to a yoke, his wrists tied to the wood like a crucifixion, a

wire around his neck.  They find the navigator unconscious,

but alive.  The officer snaps a single word and a soldier

shoots the navigator.

The others wire Rafe's ankles together... Rafe is

emotionless.

RAFE'S CONSCIOUSNESS fades in and out.  He hears Danny

choking, and his mind sees Danny as a boy those long years

ago, being carried by the neck across the field by his

father...

Then Rafe sees THE PRESENT:  Danny being half-carried, half-

dragged by the neck by two Japanese.  The officer is pulling

Red along, hands bound behind him.  And Rafe starts moving,

being dragged on his back, pulled by his feet along the rocky

sand.

His hand slides by the pistol he tossed behind the rock.

The whole world slows down.

He clutches it, shoots one of the men towing Danny.  And as

the man dragging Rafe turns around, Rafe shoots him in the

face.

The officer spins, raising his rifle; the soldier pulling

Red, shoves him onto his face in the sand and aims his rifle

too.  The officer is pulling the trigger to kill Rafe when

Danny slams him down from behind.

The fourth soldier shoots Danny in the gut, then takes aim

for Rafe's heart -- and is shot through the chest from

behind.

The Japanese officers rises in surprise and is cut down by

scythes carried by the Chinese peasant soldiers who are just

arriving.

Rafe struggles to Danny, moving the Chinese aside.  Danny

lies on his back, clutching his wound as if to hold onto his

life.

But Danny is silent, his eyes drifting shut, and in that

moment Rafe thinks he is gone already.  Then Danny's eyes

drift open, finding him.

The words almost kill Rafe, filling him with grief.  From

somewhere he finds the strength to say --

Did Danny hear?  His eyes are closed again.  But his head

comes up; Rafe takes it, and Danny pulls him closer to

whisper --

Rafe cradles Danny in his arms.  Danny's eyes are open, but

Rafe sees no light there.

But Danny will never answer him again.  Rafe hugs Danny

tight, and weeps.

EXT.  VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY

The news of the raid hits Washington...and the rest of

America.  If it isn't wild celebration; when people see the

headline:  AIR RAID ON TOKYO, and DOOLITTLE DOES MUCH; their

faces change, as if finally told what they already knew --

that America would prevail.

We see the ceremony at the White House, as Roosevelt presents

Doolittle with the metal.

EXT.  TENNESSEE - DAY

Out by the crop dusting landing field is a memorial to Danny

Walker, with an American flag flying high above it.  Standing

at the memorial are Rafe and Evelyn.  Rafe holds a child in

his arms, a boy, named Danny.

