Copyright, 1959,

Michael Powell (Theatres Ltd.)

Copyright, 1959 1988 & 1998

Leo Marks

The screen remains dark for a moment.

In the darkness WE HEAR the film's THEME MUSIC - a gentle

whirring purring noise. Nothing to be alarmed about. It

might be a small contented motor.

FADE IN:

EXT. A DESERTED STREET - NIGHT

LONG SHOT of the solitary figure of a WOMAN standing

professionally alone at the end of the street.

It is a bright, still night. We can HEAR the Woman whistling

'Stardust' merrily to herself.

CAMERA TRACKS around her. A Man's footsteps are overlaid.

We HEAR the Man start to whistle 'Stardust' under his breath -

haltingly at first, then in time with the Woman.

As we approach, she glances at us over her shoulder - then

turns round for a better look.

Her whistling stops - so, at the same moment, does the

man's.

CLOSE SHOT of DORA - a plump, attractive brunette - still

young enough to need two glances at the customers.

She smiles at us - and is pleased with the reception. She

hesitates for a long moment, weighing us up carefully...

and then - half defiantly, half expecting to be laughed

at.

Evidently we have two quid.

She beams with relief - throws her fur over her shoulders,

jerks her head towards the right - and sets off.

CAMERA TRACKS after her.  Overlaid is the sound of the

man's footsteps.

Dora resumes her whistling. So, under his breath, does the

man who is following her.

EXT. A DESERTED STREET - NIGHT

A wider street than the last - but just as empty.

Dora sways her way towards a small house. CAMERA FOLLOWS

at a respectful distance.

CAMERA PANS from Dora's hips to an overflowing dustbin.

CLOSE SHOT of a man's hand throwing something into the

dustbin. It is an empty packet marked Kodak Film.  CAMERA

PANS to Dora's house. It stands next to a chemist shop.

Dora climbs the few steps which lead to her front door -

glances round at us encouragingly - then unlocks the door.

INT. HALLWAY OF DORA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

She switches on a light - and hurries up a flight of stairs.

CAMERA TRACKS after her.

She changes her tune to 'Goodnight Sweetheart'... and so -

under his breath - does the Man who is following her.

A woman with hair like a two-toned car comes down the

stairs, winks at Dora - looks at us for a moment with great

curiosity... winks... then passes out of camera.

Dora reaches the landing - we are close behind her.

INT. LANDING OF DORA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Dora unlocks the door of her room - and goes inside.

INT. DORA'S ROOM - NIGHT

She switches on the light, throws her fur onto a chair,

lights the gas fire  then turns round.

CLOSE SHOT of Dora. She holds out her hand-smiling.

And suddenly. There is a gentle whirring purring sound.

CAMERA HOLDS ON Dora - she is staring at something with

great curiosity.

It turns quickly to bewilderment - and the bewilderment to

fear. She steps back from CAMERA - but CAMERA won't have

it.

Dora is now staring at something in horror - she opens her

mouth to scream - a shadow falls across her face.

The sound purrs on.

FADE IN:

BLACK AND WHITE FILM SEQUENCE

The solitary figure of Dora standing professionally alone

at the end of a street. WE SEE her turn towards CAMERA -

and smile at us.

We are watching her on a 16mm screen - projected in BLACK

AND WHITE.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to show the surround in natural colour.

INT. MARK'S ROOM - NIGHT

A darkened room in natural COLOUR. The movie screen images

are in BLACK AND WHITE.

We can SEE the back of a Man's head as he bends intently

over a projector. He is watching Dora on the screen. He is

breathing quickly.

We see Dora's hips waggling their way home.

The Man raises his head, so that we cannot see the screen.

When he lowers it again, we see the Woman with the two-

toned hair winking at Dora... then we see Dora throwing

her fur onto a chair - and turning towards us.

WE SEE her staring at something in bewilderment... then

backing away from CAMERA in fear.

WE HEAR the Man breathing as if at the end of a very long

race.

As Dora opens her mouth to scream, and a shadow falls across

her face - the title:

Blots out what is happening to her.

OTHER CREDITS FOLLOW... behind them we can see Dora's hands

pushing something away.

Before the DIRECTOR'S CREDIT:

EXT. A PARK - NIGHT

It is very dark.

CLOSE SHOT of a stack of deck chairs.

Two forms behind it - a MAN'S and a WOMAN'S.

They are intertwined and motionless... suddenly a brilliant

shaft of light is trained onto them.

Overlaid is a gentle, whirring sound.

CAMERA PANS quickly to a nearby tree.

CLOSE SHOT of the lens of a cine-camera - the motor

purring... a blinding spotlight.

CAMERA PANS to the couple - the whirring of the camera is

overlaid.

The Man leaps up - shielding his eyes against the light.

He advances towards the tree.

The spotlight goes out. There is the sound of footsteps

running away  and the night is at peace again.

And now WE SEE who DIRECTED the picture.

LONG SHOT. AMBULANCE - DAY

It is standing in the roadway outside Dora's house.

WE SEE it through the finder of a small cine-camera.

EXT. STREETS BY DORA'S HOUSE - DAY

A crowd has gathered outside the house - and we are watching

them from a corner of the street (ALWAYS THROUGH THE FINDER-

MATTE).

WE SEE several Policemen holding back the crowd as two

Ambulance Men hurry into the house, carrying an empty

stretcher.

Gentle, whirring sound is overlaid.

WE SEE children staring curiously into the empty ambulance -

and a group of Women talking excitedly to a Reporter.

CLOSE SHOT of a SMALL MAN looking at us curiously as he

approaches (FILLING THE SCREEN WITHIN THE MATTE).

The finder is lowered.

CLOSE SHOT of a Young Man (MARK) sighting a cine-camera.

He lowers the camera - and turns politely to his

interrogator.

He seems to have slight difficulty informing his words.

Mark smiles at him pleasantly.

The Ambulance Men come out of the house carrying the

stretcher... there is a body on it covered by a sheet.

Mark raises his cine-camera and photographs them. He

photographs the ambulance as it drives off. He photographs

the Policemen dispersing the crowd. He photographs his

Interrogator, who gladly poses for him.

Then he slings his camera over his shoulder, and strolls

away.

CLOSE SHOT of Dora, smiling happily.

Her photograph is on the front page of a newspaper.

Above it is a caption: BRUTALLY MURDERED.

CAMERA PULLS BACK - to show sexy magazines alongside the

newspaper.

EXT. A NEWSAGENT'S SHOP - DAY

Mark is staring at a newspaper in the window of a small

newsagent's shop.

He glances distastefully at an array of film magazines -

showing actresses showing everything - then hurries into

the shop.

INT. NEWSAGENT'S SHOP - DAY

A plump, bald-headed Man stares at Mark.

He turns towards a small door at the end of the shop.

Mark turns round.

Mr. Peters hesitates, drumming his fingers on the counter.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark. He starts to drum his fingers on a

shelf.

He stops drumming his fingers. So, at that moment, does

Mark.

Overlaid is the sound of the door opening.

Mark busies himself sorting some newspapers.

A whole row of Doras smile up at him.

CAMERA PANS to doorway of the shop.

An ELDERLY GENTLEMAN is standing there.

The Elderly Gentleman hesitates - glancing at Mark's back.

Then:

From under the counter he produces a thick book. Mark turns

round.

From his POV WE SEE the Elderly Gentleman open the book.

He - er- seems - er - more than a little interested.

The Elderly Gentleman hesitates.  Mr. Peters turns over a

page... and the Elderly Gentleman almost turns over with

it.

He puts it in a wrapper which says 'Educational Books'.

He holds open the door for the Elderly Gentleman, and

watches him leave.

He turns triumphantly to Mark.

Mark pockets them without counting them.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He picks up a postcard - holds it towards Mark.

Mark looks at the postcard in silence.

He pats Mark's arm.

He opens a door at the far end of the room. We catch a

glimpse of a winding staircase. He starts to climb it.

INT. REAR OF NEWSAGENT'S SHOP - DAY

At the top of the staircase is a door. Mark and his camera

trudge towards it. The door opens suddenly. A vivacious

young redhead - Milly - pokes her head round. She has a

towel round her shoulders.

From REVERSE ANGLE WE SEE Mark venture a shy smile at Milly.

Milly opens the door impatiently.

Through the half-open door we catch a glimpse of a second

Girl (LORRAINE). She is staring out of a window, her back

to camera. She is naked except for a shawl draped round

her shoulders.

Mark enters the room... the door begins to close. CAMERA

TRACKS towards the door. On the threshold of the room, a

hood is thrown over our faces. THE SCREEN BLACKS OUT.

In the darkness WE HEAR Milly's voice.

INT. STUDIO ABOVE NEWSAGENT'S - DAY

We are with Mark under the hood of an antiquated camera.

Through the ground-glass of the camera WE SEE a SMALL

INVERTED IMAGE of Milly.

We hear Lorraine's voice - muffled, and very far away.

The SMALL INVERTED IMAGE of Milly peers anxiously into the

camera.

The ground-glass camera begins travelling slowly down

Milly's back.

CLOSE SHOT of Milly. She is on a couch, lying on her stomach

at a slightly oblique angle. All that WE CAN SEE are her

face and naked shoulders.

From Milly's POV WE SEE Mark under the hood of an antiquated

camera.

Mark's voice is MUFFLED under the hood.

CLOSE SHOT of her naked toes. They start to wriggle.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark's toes - in sandals, next to the tripod

of the camera. They start to wriggle.

CLOSE SHOT of Lorraine. We watch her in profile as she

stares out of the window - clutching her shawl. She has

outstandingly beautiful features.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark. He is standing by the side of the

camera, studying us thoughtfully. He is holding a remote-

control switch panel in his hand. He clicks off several

lights and then switches several others on... then he ducks

back under the hood.

We join Mark under the hood.

WE SEE a small INVERTED IMAGE of Milly on the ground-glass.

Her shoulders are now white and glistening, her spine

caressed by shadows. She is staring into the camera.

He adjusts the focus. We can see more clearly the contempt

on Milly's face.

From Milly's POV WE SEE Mark come round to the front of

the camera, and insert a dark slide.

Mark presses a rubber bulb - the shutter clicks.

Mark inserts another dark slide.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

from Milly's viewpoint, WE SEE Mark holding the rubber

bulb. cine-camera is on a ledge behind him.

Mark presses the rubber bulb - the shutters click.

He inserts another slide.

He presses the bulb - the shutters click.

He inserts another slide.

He presses the bulb - the shutters click.

Mark looks at her thoughtfully for a long moment.

Mark smiles at her shyly.

Mark inserts another slide.

There is a gentle KNOCK at the door, and Mr. Peters enters.

He carries a tray of coffee. He keeps his eyes modestly

lowered.

He lays the tray on a table, still keeping his eyes lowered,

and goes out.

She glances over her shoulder.

CLOSE SHOT of Lorraine staring out of the window. She

stiffens. Milly's voice is overlaid.

Lorraine clutches her shawl tightly.

Lorraine turns round.

The left side of her face is classical in its beauty. She

has a hare lip, which twists and distorts the whole of the

right side. Her eyes are large - and beautiful - and

defiant.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark looking at her.

CLOSE SHOT of Lorraine.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

CLOSE SHOT of Lorraine. Beautiful in profile.

CLOSE SHOT of the shawl round Lorraine's shoulders.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

CLOSE SHOT of Lorraine's eyes - puzzled.

He tries to go on - but words are a foreign language to

him.

In a sudden rush:

CLOSE SHOT of Lorraine standing very still  looking at

him in silence.

Milly shrugs and reaches for the coffee pot.

Overlaid is the gentle purring of a cine-camera.

CAMERA LINGERS on the dark liquid being poured into a cup.

Whisky being poured into a glass.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

INT. HELEN'S SITTING ROOM - EVENING - TOWARDS SUNSET

The hand filling the glass is a woman's (MRS. STEPHENS).

She is sitting in a high-backed chair, and we cannot see

her face. Over her shoulder we watch a party in progress.

A group of Young people have surrounded someone to whom

they are singing:

CAMERA TRACKS towards them.

CLOSE SHOT of TONY HUNTER, a well-built youngster in his

middle twenties.

He obviously means it.

CLOSE SHOT of 'dear HELEN'. A sensitive, intelligent, and

extremely attractive girl, who  as the encircling

youngsters now inform us in song - is:

CLOSE SHOT of the glass by Mrs. Stephens' side. It is half

empty. An elderly lady leans across to her. She is Mrs.

Partridge, slightly high on a glass of sherry.

Mrs. Stephens grunts. Someone switches on a gramophone and

the young couples start dancing at once. Tony hurries up

to Helen.

Helen goes towards him. A YOUNG MAN calls out sharply:

He is pointing at something out of camera. All heads -

except Mrs. Stephens' - follow the direction of his gaze.

Mrs. Stephens continues to sit motionless in the high-backed

chair.

CAMERA PANS to the window. Mark is standing there.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen looking at Mark. We watch him over her

shoulder - Tony's arm encircling it.

EXT. MARK'S HOUSE - EVENING - LOW SUN

The chap from upstairs presses his face to the window.

From his POV WE SEE Helen's eyes looking at him - the key

of the door in them - looking at him, not staring. Suddenly

the rest comes into focus - Tony's arm around Helen's

shoulder... the high-backed chair in the foreground with

the back of that motionless head... a young couple giggling

as they stare at him. Mark steps away, and the CAMERA PULLS

BACK with him.

We catch a glimpse of the house - large, sprawling, but

with a touch of quality about it, in a quiet, unpretentious

street.

Mark hurries towards a side entrance.

INT. HELEN'S SITTING ROOM - EVENING

CLOSE SHOT of Helen looking at the empty window.

CLOSE SHOT of Tony - frowning.

CAMERA PANS to Mrs. Stephens' glass... the hand which

refills it has begun to tremble.

INT. REAR OF HOUSE - NIGHT

The lights are on.

WE FOLLOW Mark (and his camera) along a small passage which

leads to the hall. The sound of a dance record can be heard.

Mark starts to whistle it under his breath.

INT. HALL - NIGHT

Over his shoulder we see a staircase, and beyond it the

door of Helen's sitting room. The sound of Helen's party

fills the hall.

Mark reaches the staircase. There is the sound of a door

opening. Helen's voice is overlaid:

Mark hesitates, then turns round.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen - smiling at him.

Mark looks at her as if he does.

Her directness is natural, consistent and very hard to

resist.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark - smiling.

She glances with unconcealed interest at the camera over

his shoulder.

She holds out her hand... he takes it gently.

She glances again at his camera.

She realizes that this is not the happiest of phrases.

He hesitates.

CAMERA PANS to Helen's door. Tony stands there.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark - looking at her.

He turns away.

He hurries up the stairs.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen. She stares after him for a moment.

Then returns thoughtfully to her party.

The screen remains dark for a moment. We are with Mark in

a darkened room. He is giving a film show - and we are the

screen.

INT. MARK'S DARK-ROOM - NIGHT

His cine-projector points straight at us.  A flickering

light shines in our eyes. We can see him crouching behind

the projector.

Mark leans forward, watching the screen intently...

Perspiration trickles down his forehead. He is breathing

very quickly. The sounds of the party seep up from

downstairs - music, laughter, and a Girl's yelp.

There is a knock on the door. Mark does not hear it.

CAMERA PANS to the door of the room. It is blacked-out

like a photographic dark-room. The knock is repeated.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark. He switches off the projector instantly.

CAMERA PANS to an open cupboard in the corner.

CLOSE SHOT of the shelves. They are stacked with spools of

film.

CAMERA travels slowly over these spools. WE SEE Mark's

hand add two more to the collection; his Voice is overlaid.

He closes the cupboard door.

INT. MARK'S SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Mark comes out of the dark-room behind him - the light is

kept out by a baffle and a curtain. He has a pleasant,

normally untidy bedsitting room.

He wipes his handkerchief across his forehead - then hurries

to the door. He opens it - Helen is standing there.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark - shaking his head, smiling shyly.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen.

She holds out a plate on which is a piece of birthday cake.

He takes the plate.

She turns to go.

She turns round.

She smiles.

She steps over the threshold. The door closes behind her.

INT. MARK'S SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE SHOT of Helen looking round the room.

Mark's voice is overlaid.

Helen glances towards the inner room. He holds out a glass

of milk to her.

She drinks it with relish. He watches her in silence.

She looks at him in surprise.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He hesitates.

She looks at him in astonishment.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He looks at her anxiously.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen.

He looks at her in silence.

She puts down the glass, turns to the door.

She turns round. He is standing by the entrance to the

inner room.

He leads the way - she follows. For a moment the screen is

in darkness. A dark-room darkness.

INT. THE INNER ROOM - NIGHT

We can HEAR - faintly  the dance music from downstairs.

There is a click - and the walls are suddenly bathed in

diffused light, throwing the room into delicate shadow.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen looking round in amazement.

As certain events of possible interest are to take place

in this room, here, in detail, is what amazes Helen.

The room is the product of three rooms which have been

knocked into one. It is very large and extremely well

constructed (as we are soon to learn, it was originally a

laboratory). One half of the room is used for processing,

and the other half for filming - and for trade shows. The

two halves are lined by long shelves upon which are perched

all shapes and sizes of cameras, their spectacles glinting

in the light.

In the processing half two benches (a 'dry' bench and a

'wet' bench) face each other against opposite walls. There

are three sinks above the 'wet' bench and an outburst of

equipment above the 'dry'.

This part of the room is lit by two dark-room lamps frowning

in the ceiling above the benches.

The other part of the room has a window at the far end of

it. Heavy drapes are putted across it.

Mark's projector rests on a small table in front of the

16mm screen.  Two banks of floods and a variety of spots

light this part of the room. There is a small control panel

on the wall.

Some of the equipment is ancient - but none of it is old.

All of it glistens with the affection of its owner.

There is absolutely nothing in the room to alarm anyone

except an adult... the kind who starts to wonder who paid

for it all.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark. He stands by the lighting panel,

watching Helen.

From his POV WE SEE her brushing the hair out of her eyes

as she looks slowly round. He brushes the hair out of his.

For a moment she turns her back to him. He presses a switch

on the wall. A gentle light ripples through the back of

Helen's hair.

SHOT of Helen. She turns to him. She is very nearly at a

loss for words.

She takes a final look round.

She looks at him searchingly.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He hesitates.

She looks at him with renewed interest.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark - in difficulties.

He looks at her thoughtfully.

He crosses to the corner cupboard - opens the door.

CLOSE SHOT of the cupboard.  WE SEE Mark's hand reach for

a spool of film... then hesitate, poised above another

spool.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen - watching with interest.

REVERSE ANGLE SHOT of Mark. He closes the cupboard, and

turns round... there is a spool of film in his hand.

He walks slowly towards his projector... he seems  for

the moment  to have forgotten she is there.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen - watching him thread the film into

the projector.

He places a chair a few feet away from the screen - and,

with an oddly courteous bow, beckons her into it. She sits

down.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark. He looks at her intently for a moment -

then turns off the lights. Over Helen's shoulder We can

just make out the empty screen. Mark switches on the

projector.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen - the light flickering on her face.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark staring at Helen's face.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen. WE SEE her expression of surprise.

Over Mark's shoulder WE SEE the surprise growing. Over

Helen's shoulder we see the screen. We are looking at a

small boy. He is lying in his bed asleep. Although the

print is old, we can see that he is a remarkably handsome

boy.

The boy turns restlessly in his sleep... one of his pillows

falls to the floor.

A light - as if from a small torch  starts to shine on

the child's eyes. He moves restlessly.

The light plays on the child's left eye, then on his right.

It is growing brighter.

The child wakes up suddenly. He stares at something...

then starts to scream.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark watching her in silence.

Mark does not answer. The small screen is filled with the

face of the screaming, terrified child.

(Mark's father now tries a not altogether successful

dissolve:)

WE NOW SEE the little boy standing in front of a garden

wall. He tries hard to climb to the top of the wall, but

falls over. Helen laughs. Mark watches her in silence.

Small Mark tries again - and again - to scale the wall...

At last he succeeds.

WE SEE the little boy lying flat on the wall staring at

something... rapt, motionless.

The cine-camera which is taking this picture now tracks

rather clumsily towards the wall.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT over the wall of what is fascinating young

Mark - A man and woman are lying on the ground, kissing.

The CINE-CAMERA PANS - again rather clumsily - to young

Mark... staring intently.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen. It suddenly occurs to her.

She stares again at that lonely figure perched on the wall.

The small screen begins to dissolve ...so does the large

one.

INT. HELEN'S SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Over Mrs. Stephens' shoulder WE SEE the party in progress.

The glass by her side is full again. Tony is dancing with

an attractive blonde.

He turns round.

The head nods.

Tony advances reluctantly towards her.

REVERSE ANGLE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens.

Over Tony's shoulder WE SEE a powerfully built and once

lovely woman.

She is so perpetually drunk as almost to be sober. The few

movements she makes are slow - deliberate - and give nothing

away. The voice articulates so carefully that the slur

scarcely shows.

The fact that she is blind almost helps to conceal the

fact that she is drunk. Her sightless eyes stare out the

camera as Tony reaches her.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen's eyes. The light from the projector

flickering into them.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

INT. THE INNER ROOM - NIGHT

She is leaning forward, her face cupped in her hand,

watching the small screen intently.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark. His face is cupped in his hand as he

watches her intently.

Over Helen's shoulder WE SEE Mark in the making.

The child is again asleep... this time he is being

photographed from the head of the bed - the CAMERA POINTING

STRAIGHT DOWN AT HIS FACE.

A beam of light starts to shine onto his eyes, first onto

the left, then onto the right.

Mark looks at her in silence.

The boy moves restlessly, then turns over onto his face,

pulling the bedclothes round him. His right hand is limp

on the pillow. The light shines for a moment on this hand,

then goes out.  Helen half turns towards Mark.

Her attention is suddenly riveted on the screen.

Over Helen's shoulder WE SEE something drop onto the child's

bed... something which stays quite still for a moment,

then starts crawling towards the counterpane. It is a small

lizard.

Her voice trails away. She stares - repelled and fascinated -

at the screen.

WE SEE Mark reach for his cine-camera.

Over Helen's shoulder WE SEE the lizard reach the

counterpane. It stretches itself out on the floral design -

its body is pointed towards the child's hand.

WE HEAR a click - and suddenly a spotlight falls onto

Helen's face.

OVERLAID is the GENTLE PURRING of Mark's cine-camera. She

wheels towards him - blotting out the small screen.

The camera purrs on.

He switches off the spot... the purring of the camera dies

away. She turns towards the small screen.

The small boy is sitting upright... screaming with terror...

there is no sign of the lizard.

A handkerchief is thrown onto the boy's bed. He continues

crying - looking up into someone's face.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark watching the screen.

We hear a man's deep voice overlaid.

Small Mark reaches for the handkerchief and wipes his

eyes... his hands are trembling.

The small screen trembles with them into a clumsy dissolve.

Helen turns to Mark.

He looks at her helplessly.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark staring at the screen.

She turns to the screen.

Her voice trails away.

From Helen's POV WE SEE the screen.

Small Mark is wearing a dark suit and a black tie.

He is standing at the foot of a four-poster bed, staring

at something in horror and disbelief... his hands clasp

the bedrail tightly.

Slowly - very slowly - he walks towards the head of the

bed, staring.

His lips begin to quiver. He bends forward over the bed.

WE CAN SEE the back of his bowed head.

We catch a glimpse of a woman's hands folded in front of

her.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

Suddenly - and healthily - his temper snaps.

He pushes a lever on his projector as far forward as it

will go.

The film is now shown at tremendous speed - We catch a

glimpse of a long line of cars.

It speeds by.

A confused picture of earth and flowers.

The briefest glimpse of a little boy with a spade.

WE SEE a girl in a bikini by sand-dunes. Mark offers no

comment.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen.

He pulls back the lever of his projector... the film returns

to its normal speed.

WE SEE the same attractive young woman standing in a garden.

She is holding a bewildered and defiant Mark by the hand.

Suddenly the girl runs towards camera - leaving Mark

standing alone.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen watching intently.  It's out of focus!

From Helen's POV WE SEE a tall man in a black coat walking

away from camera. He hurries towards small Mark - who

watches him anxiously.

The back of Mark's father suddenly obscures our view of

small Mark... all we can see is that tall figure looking

downwards standing very still.

Camera wobbles - as if the person holding it is laughing.

Mark stares at the blurred screen, perspiration trickling

down his forehead.

The small screen comes back into focus - and suddenly our

camera rushes towards it.

WE SEE a CLOSE SHOT of a CLOSE SHOT - and at the moment we

see it, Mark's Voice is overlaid... A whisper which echoes

round the room.

We are looking at a close shot of a camera in a small boy's

hands.

There is a single shrill chord of music on the sound track.

CLOSE SHOT of the shelf which encircles Mark's room.

We are looking at the very same camera which the small boy

is holding.

CLOSE SHOT of the camera in small Mark's hands.

His father's finger points lo the view-finder.

Small Mark stares into it. Small Mark begins to smile.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark watching himself being born.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen watching Mark.

He continues to stare at the screen.

She turns to the projector - touches the wrong switch.

Small Mark and his father go rapidly backwards.

Mark turns off the projector abruptly.

The room is in darkness.

WE CAN HEAR both of them breathing quickly.

The light goes on. Mark is standing by the exit - he keeps

his face averted.

Helen walks slowly towards the exit. She glances round

once, over her shoulder, then goes into the other room.

Mark stares after her.

INT. MARK'S SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

She walks towards the door... turns round suddenly - almost

in anger.

He keeps his face averted.

He doesn't answer.

He turns round slowly. From his POV WE SEE the willingness

to understand on her face.

She walks towards him... takes his handkerchief from his

jacket pocket and wipes his forehead.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

CLOSE SHOT of the word 'fear'.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

We are looking at the spine of a book on Mark's shelf. The

full title reads: The Physiology of Fear by Professor A.

N. Lewis.

MARK'S VOICE IS OVERLAID:

CLOSE SHOT of the word 'fear' on the next book.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

The full title reads: FEAR AND THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, PART I.

PROFESSOR A. N. LEWIS.  There is a row of such books all

by Professor Lewis.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He looks at her in silence.

There is a knock on the door.

He hurries to the door, and opens it.

Tony is standing there.

From Tony's POV WE SEE Helen looking at the door of the

dark room.

She turns towards him.

She turns to Mark.

Mark shakes his head.

She is suddenly aware of Tony watching her. She glances at

the birthday cake on the table.

She smiles at him.

She goes into the passage.

He puts his arm round Helen, and closes the door.

Mark stares after them, motionless.

The CAMERA LINGERS on the birthday cake.

As the light fades, a voice yells: Cut!

INT. FILM STUDIO - DAY

HIGH ANGLE SHOT of a set showing part of a large West End

store.

A blonde is lying unconscious in front of a lift - and a

crowd of extras surround her.

As the word 'cut' dies away, the extras relax - and the

blonde (DIANE ASHLEY) props herself onto her elbow, looking

towards the Director.

CLOSE SHOT of the Director (ARTHUR BADEN) standing beside

the camera.

He glances at the CHIEF CAMERAMAN (PHILIP TALE), who nods

his head in agreement.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark standing at the back of the camera crew.

He shakes his head in disagreement.

The Chief Cameraman spots Mark's small mutiny and wags his

finger at him. As the Chief Cameraman turns away, Mark's

finger automatically wags back.

CLOSE SHOT of Baden looking at his watch. He sighs, then

nods to the Assistant Director who stands beside him.

Baden walks out without a word to anyone. A hubbub of

chatter breaks out. The unit downs tools and begins to

disperse.

CLOSE SHOT of one of the extras (VIVIAN) - a small,

vivacious, brunette with delicate, attractive features.

She edges towards the camera crew.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark watching her.

Over his shoulder WE SEE Vivian glance towards him. He

nods almost imperceptibly.

Vivian hurries towards the exit.

Mark turns to a shelf behind him - picks up his cine-camera

and a little full string bag containing his lunch.

EXT. STUDIO GROUNDS - DAY

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian munching a sandwich.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

She is leaning against a wall in a corner of an exterior

set - a Chinese temple or a medieval castle (or a

combination of each like a Pinewood drawing-room).

Beside her she has a small tape-recorder, or record-player.

We hear music - modem rhythms.

There are several people strolling about - but no one in

the immediate vicinity. No one... except Mark.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark - settling down on the other side of

the wall (where they can talk without being seen together).

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian.

We see him break off a piece of birthday cake, and pass it

over to her.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark staring at his cake.

She hesitates.

Mark lies motionless behind the wall. A young male EXTRA

comes towards Vivian.

He glances at his watch.

He wanders off.

Mark is silent, staring at the sky.

Mark is silent.

A hooter.

She rises to her feet. From behind the wall comes a gentle

whirring purring sound.

She smiles down at him.

She walks away. And the gentle purring continues. CAMERA

PANS to the sun beating down on the lot.

An arc lamp beating down on the set.

INT. STUDIO - DAY

Baden bears down on the Assistant Director.

A cry goes up,

CLOSE SHOT of Baden turning towards the entrance.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark turning towards the entrance.

CLOSE SHOT of entrance.

INT. STUDIO - DAY

Miss.  DIANE ASHLEY appears... among the many qualities

she radiates is goodwill - especially towards Miss Diane

Ashley.

And so on, until:

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

She reaches Baden - and completely ignores him.

She ignores this.

She looks at him - then at her hand - and nods.

Baden sighs.

Vivian steps forward.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian taking her position in front of the

lift. She glances at her watch.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark standing by the side of the studio

camera. He glances at his watch.

CAMERA TRACKS towards the lift.

From Mark's POV WE SEE Diane catch sight of the Store

Detective - and crumple in a faint.

CLOSE SHOT of door marked: DON JARVIS - MANAGING DIRECTOR.

A timid knock is overlaid before we dare enter.

INT. EXECUTIVE OFFICE - AFTERNOON

CLOSE SHOT of a pile of scripts on a great man's desk.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

MR. JARVIS is immersed in reading a script... his eyes

race across the page.

Over his shoulder WE SEE what he is reading... a sheet of

figures attached to the script.

At the same time Mr. Jarvis is holding a telephone receiver

to his ear - and we hear an enthusiastic VOICE FILTERED

THROUGH IT: VOICE (OFF-SCREEN)

Still reading the script, Mr. Jarvis lays the receiver on

his desk and picks up another.

He replaces this receiver and picks up the original.

The voice is still talking - something about 'a wonderful

part for Kenny or Alec'...

He replaces the receiver.  MISS SIMPSON enters. She hands

him some folders... her smile curtsies.

CLOSE SHOT of Mr. Jarvis opening a folder.

Over his shoulder WE SEE a page covered with row upon row

of figures.

The great man's finger skims along the figures like a tailor

feeling cloth.

He glowers at her - but his day is made.

CLOSE SHOT of Jarvis.

She makes a note in her little book.

Over his shoulder WE SEE an open window. CAMERA TRACKS

towards it.

CLOSE SHOT of Clapper Boy's board.  It reads: Take 49.

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK

INT. STUDIO - LATE AFTERNOON

He turns to Diane, who is wearily picking herself up off

the floor.

MONTAGE SEQUENCE:

Camera crew on a tracking shot. Mark is operating the Selsen

motor.

Baden - shaking his head.

Diane - picking herself up off the floor.

Clapper Boy's board  reading: Take 57.

Vivian - glancing at her watch.

Mark - glancing at his.

Diane - picking herself up off the floor.

CLOSE SHOT of Baden - triumphant at last.

Mark nods perfunctorily.

He glances at his watch - then nods to the Assistant

Director.

She makes a hobbling exit.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian hurrying towards the exit carrying

her little recorder.

In a burst of chatter, the unit starts to disperse.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark picking up his cine-camera and his lunch

bag.

The CLAPPER BOY comes up to him.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian. She is sitting at a dressing-room

table... making-up with care.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Three other girls share the dressing room with her.

There is a knock at the door - and the Young Extra who

spoke to Vivian in the grounds pokes his head round.

EXT. THE CAR PARK - LATE AFTERNOON

The cars are streaming towards the gate.

CLOSE SHOT of Baden driving a small new car.

CLOSE SHOT of the Chief Cameraman driving a large old one.

INT. DON JARVIS' OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

He is still immersed in his figures.

Miss Simpson is walking to the door. She glances at her

little book.

He grunts.

Jarvis goes on reading...

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian.

INT. DRESSING ROOM

Music playing. Vivian moves about nervously in front of a

mirror in the deserted dressing room. She wears slacks and

a shirt. She glances at her watch - her hands are trembling -

looks at watch, hears the fireman coming, then switches

off the music and hides in the big cupboard -

INT. CORRIDOR

Fireman making his rounds, turning off lights.

EXT. THE CAR PARK - EARLY EVENING

Only a few cars now remain. It is beginning to grow dark.

INT. STUDIO CORRIDORS - EARLY EVENING

The long corridors are dim and deserted.

INT. PASSAGE - EARLY EVENING

The fireman is making his rounds.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - EARLY EVENING

Vivian is standing in the cupboard - the lights are on.

INT. CORRIDOR - EARLY EVENING

Fireman opening the dressing-room doors - and glancing

inside.

INT. POWER HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

Two electricians are smoking.

INT. CORRIDOR - EARLY EVENING

Fireman opens the door of Vivian's dressing room.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - EARLY EVENING

From Vivian's POV WE SEE the lights go out.

WE HEAR the sound of the door closing - and the Fireman's

footsteps disappearing down the corridor.

INT. DON JARVIS' OFFICE - EARLY EVENING

The great man closing up his folder... glancing at his

watch... turning out the light.

INT. CORRIDOR - EARLY EVENING

Vivian is hurrying along a deserted corridor... and the

little recorder.

She pauses - and glances out of a door.

She carries her case Over her shoulder WE SEE the studio

lot - in a blaze of light we can see a crowd of people

hanging about in solar topees and tropical kit.

REVERSE SHOT of Vivian watching anxiously.

She turns away - and hurries down the corridor.

EXT. THE COURTYARD. EARLY EVENING

Don Jarvis strides across the courtyard. We can almost

hear - and perhaps we do - a cash register ringing up.

One of the white-clad figures lounging indolently in the

doorway glances round, sees the Inquisition approaching

and freezes. His degree of terror might satisfy Mark.

The great man strides on.

INT. ENTRANCE TO STAGE E. - EARLY EVENING

Vivian pauses in front of the entrance to the set.

Above the note is a notice: 'NO ADMITTANCE WHILE RED LIGHT

IS ON'.

The light is out.

Vivian looks round - there is no one in sight.

Vivian slips in quietly, and closes the door behind her.

INT. STUDIO - EARLY EVENING

The set is in darkness.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian looking round.

No reply.  Vivian hesitates... then edges slowly forward.

Ahead of her are shadowy counters full of merchandise.

Beyond them is the door of the lift.

CLOSE SHOT of the studio camera and the Director's empty

chair beside it.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian edging forward.

She reaches one of the counters - and leans against it,

looking around.

REVERSE ANGLE shot of Vivian. She is leaning against the

counter of the trunk department. Trunks and suitcases at

'greatly reduced prices' are piled behind her.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian. She starts whistling nervously under

her breath.

Very faintly overlaid is the sound of Mark whistling under

his.

Vivian stops whistling - and so does Mark.

She listens intently for a moment - then peers at her watch.

CLOSE SHOT of the watch on Mark's wrist.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian. She shivers suddenly... then looks

at her watch again. She hesitates... then turns towards

the exit, and starts to edge back. She trips over a cable

and almost falls.

Suddenly she is bathed in light.

She wheels round. One of the big spots is beating down on

her.

No sign of him. Overlaid is a gentle purring sound.  Where

are another light comes on, shining through her hair.

The sound of his steps is overlaid.

His footsteps stop... she looks round.

His voice is quietly overlaid.

She wheels round.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark sitting in the Director's chair. He is

holding in his lap his cine-camera, and a black bag.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian breathing quickly.

He looks at her in silence.

He nods, staring at her intently.

INT. ENTRANCE TO SET - EARLY EVENING

CLOSE SHOT of the red light - burning.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian.

INT. STUDIO - EARLY EVENING

Over his shoulder WE SEE the studio camera.

She glances round at the brazenly burning lights; shakes

her head despairingly.

She looks at him in silence.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He looks at her, then nods.

He walks slowly towards the studio camera.

She prepares for the test by switching on music and warming

up with dance movements.

Mark puts the cine-camera and the black cloth bag on the

dolly, slowly mounts the platform, closes the blimp - and

swings the camera.

We watch him from the top of the studio, from the door of

the studio, from the Director's chair. And finally WE WATCH

HIM from Vivian's POV. She stops dancing but the music

continues.

He stares ahead of him, his mind far, far away... then

bends and looks into the finder.

There is a single harsh chord of music - and the screen

goes dark. It remains dark for a moment.

Suddenly the darkness parts like curtains - and in the

centre WE SEE Vivian's face in the finder of the studio

camera. (Unlike the ground-glass of the newsagent's camera,

we see everything the right way up and in perfect

perspective.)

Mark hooks a filler-light below the camera and switches it

on. He adjusts the finder until he has made of Vivian's

delicate features a radiant miniature.

The miniature smiles shyly at him. She has stopped dancing

and is looking directly at the camera. Music continues.

Through the film, we can see only her eyes - large and

wistful.

She becomes the uninhibited Vivian again.

He looks up from the camera; she smiles and starts keeping

time to the rhythm again.

We hear his quick breathing.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark. He looks down - a little sadly - and

peers into the finder. (The camera dolly is on tracks - he

tracks forward.)

Music continues - piano.

In the finder WE SEE a large trunk - 'at greatly reduced

prices'  on the shelf behind Vivian.

From Vivian's POV WE SEE Mark leave the studio camera

and hurry towards the trunks. She watches him wide-eyed.

He reaches for the largest trunk.

He carries the trunk towards the studio camera, and lays

it carefully on the floor.

Music continues.

Vivian peers into the front-glass of the studio camera

as if it were a mirror. The rhythm of the music changes.

She jumps onto the trunk and taps.

She giggles again.

She jumps off the trunk onto the floor.

He opens the trunk. she jumps into it. Her laughter echoes

round the deserted studio.

INT. POWER HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

The two electricians are roaring with laughter. One of

them is making tea.

CAMERA PANS to a dial on the wall... one of the needles

flickers slightly.

He turns away from the dials, and grasps at the outstretched

mug.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian recording - her little recorder is

twittering back at great speed.

She restarts music.

INT. STUDIO - EARLY EVENING

She is watching Mark curiously as he arranges the lighting.

CLOSE SHOT of the studio camera. In front of it - fixed on

a small hook - is a tape measure.

Mark reaches for it... then carefully measures the distance

between the trunk and the camera... then he takes apiece

of chalk from his pocket and makes a small cross on the

floor.

The music continues.

He glances at a nearby dial - only a few feet away from

the one which is flickering.

She goes around the camera out of sight - and he is out of

hers. He glances into the trunk - it is deep, and very

empty.

Mark hurries to the side of the studio camera and picks up

his cine-camera.

Suddenly Mark's face appears in the finder.

We see Mark raise his cine-camera. He seems to be pointing

it straight at us.  We hear a gentle purring.

High angle shot of Mark standing in front of the studio

camera - photographing her photographing him.

He walks slowly towards her, holding his cine-camera to

his eyes.  In the finder of Mark's cine-camera WE SEE Vivian

at the studio camera. She comes closer and closer.

We see him standing almost on top of her - his cine-camera

trained on her.

She looks up slowly - and a little hesitantly. Music, all

drums.

He watches her in silence as she walks to the front of the

studio camera and takes up her position. while the drum-

beat continues.

EXT. COURTYARD - EARLY EVENING

Don Jarvis is leaving the unit working on the lot. It is

now bustling with activity.

A girl comes up to him... She raises her cigarette for a

light - and looks into his eyes.

He hands her a box of matches... and walks away.  Over his

shoulder we see the other stages - apparently empty. Don

Jarvis hesitates, then strides towards one.

INT. POWER HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

CLOSE SHOT of a dial - the needle flickering slightly.

Overlaid is the voice of the 1st Electrician.

INT. STUDIO - EARLY EVENING

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian staring at the trunk on the floor

behind her. The recorded rhythm continues.

Mark is watching her over the top of the studio camera.

He peers into the viewfinder. In the finder we see Vivian

looking rather pathetically into camera.

From her POV WE SEE see him raise his head slightly.

In the finder we see her wrinkling her brow.

He goes and switches off the recorder. The sudden silence

is startling.

She stares into focusing screen - intrigued, but not

frightened, not even by the silence and shadowy vastness

around her.

She stands motionless - staring into camera.

INT. CORRIDOR IN STUDIO - EARLY EVENING

CLOSE SHOT of Don Jarvis. He is standing motionless, staring

down a corridor.

What he is staring at is out of camera - and it is puzzling

the great man.

He walks quietly along the corridor.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian.

INT. STUDIO - EARLY EVENING

CLOSE SHOT of Mark. He raises his head slowly - and locks

the studio camera off. Then he walks slowly towards her.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT of Mark walking towards Vivian.

CAMERA ZOOMS DOWN to the trunk behind her. Mark's voice is

overlaid:

CLOSE SHOT of Don Jarvis.

INT. CORRIDOR - EARLY EVENING

The great man is poised for the kill. He is moving forward

stealthily... and suddenly breaks into a run.

CAMERA PANS - and WE SEE the object of his attentions. A

wisp of smoke is coming from behind an alcove.

CLOSE SHOT of a Fireman - smoking a cigarette.

CLOSE SHOT of Don Jarvis - smoking!

CLOSE SHOT of the Fireman's terror as he sees Don Jarvis.

The Fireman opens his mouth to explain  and smoke exudes.

The Fireman follows him meekly.

CAMERA PANS.

So near - yet a lifetime away - a red light is burning

above a closed door.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian - puzzled.

INT. STUDIO E. - EARLY EVENING

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He is holding his cine-camera; fixed to it is a collapsible

tripod.

Suddenly he pulls one leg of the tripod out. WE SEE that a

very sharp spike protrudes from the end of it.

From Mark's POV WE SEE Vivian looking at the spike.

He raises it towards her - until the spike is only inches

from her throat.

We can hear his heart pounding as if it will burst - and

gradually Vivian, too, becomes aware of it.

Just for a moment Mark's arm moves. His back hides what he

is doing. Suddenly WE SEE Vivian turn her head sharply -

she is looking at something out of camera.

The spike is very close to her throat - but Vivian ignores

it, staring out of camera.

Over Mark's shoulder we concentrate on Vivian's face.

The fear on her face is rapidly growing...

She tries to move back - but the trunk prevents her.

It is almost a scream.

We can hear Mark breathing quickly.

Vivian raises her hands to push something away from her.

Suddenly the screen is filled with her eyes. WE SEE them

dilating with terror. There is a sudden crash as the big

power switches go out in the roof.

The lights go out.

There is a scream in the darkness.

Then silence.

The darkness acquires a grey, opaque quality as if one is

seeing the world through a curtain - it is the world of

Mrs. Stephens.

A bright light is felt, rather than seen, beating against

our eyelids. It looms closer and stronger.

CLOSE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens, a large glass of whisky - and

the bottle - beside her. It is night.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen. 'She's Got the Key of the Door' is

overlaid.

From Helen's POV WE SEE her reach for her glass with a

steady hand.

Helen spins the coin on the table Mrs. Stephens listens

intently... the coin stops spinning.

Her fingers shoot out and feel the surface of the coin.

She turns the coin over and carefully feels the other side.

Helen watches her with a smile - then looks thoughtfully

at the ceiling.

From Helen's POV WE SEE the sightless eyes staring at her.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen.

CLOSE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens.

Mrs. Stephens hesitates - which is rare.

CLOSE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens. Again she hesitates.

She kisses her - and glances at the whisky glass.

She walks to the door.

She hurries out. Mrs. Stephens instantly refills her glass.

CLOSE SHOT of her hand. It has begun to tremble.

MARK'S DARK-ROOM

CLOSE SHOT of Mark's hands, in the green light of the dark-

room. He is busy unloading and winding film onto a

developing rack.

He puts the rack of exposed film into the tank and starts

the time clock.

CLOSE SHOT of the time clock ticking.

A knock is heard off.

Mark looks up.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.  Faintly overlaid is 'She's Got the

Key of the Door'.  He looks down at the clock.

INT. PASSAGE - EVENING

Helen opens the door of Mark's sitting room. We hear Mark

call out from the inner room:

Helen goes in, closing the door behind her.

INT. MARK'S SITTING ROOM - EVENING

Helen enters. She speaks loudly to be heard in the dark-

room.

No reply from the inner room.

Helen glances at her watch... then looks curiously round

the room.

CLOSE SHOT of Vivian's recorder, placed on a chair.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen. She picks it up and looks at it,

curiously, fingering the stops.

Helen turns round. Mark is standing on the threshold of

the dark-room.

He walks towards her... he stops suddenly. He is staring

at the recorder in her hand.

Gently he takes it from her - as if it is a cup with which

she has finished - and replaces it on the shelf.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen.

Her voice trails away.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark. He is holding out a small package.

She takes the package, and unwraps it. Inside is a slender

brooch

He watches her hold it against her dress.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen pinning it on.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark touching his lapel.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen glancing at her watch.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark glancing at his. He thinks of the ticking

clock in the dark-room.

Helen looks up, and sees him.

He looks as if he has just been voted the best cameraman

of the year (unanimously) - and the two films he directed

have both won Oscars (though Don Jarvis understood them).

His delighted astonishment is such that she has to smile.

She takes a deep breath.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

They have cancelled his Oscar.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen looking at him...

They look at each other in silence.

He watches her leave, standing very still.

Offstage, the time clock explodes.

CLOSE SHOT - the excited clock. Mark's hand silences it.

INT. DARK-ROOM - GREEN LIGHT

Mark opens the developing tank, lifts out the rack of film,

drops it into the fixing bath.

He switches light from green to red.

CLOSE SHOT - green to red dark-room lamp.

Mark lifts the rack of glistening film out of the fixing

bath and scans the image.

CLOSE SHOT - Mark's face and the tell-tale black and white

images.

CLOSE SHOT - the film. A pile of trunks.

In the darkness we hear a man enquire softly:

CLOSE SHOT of a Tall Man with a severe face. He is standing

in front of a familiar pile of trunks marked at 'Specially

Reduced Prices'.

CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY - and WE SEE whom he is addressing.

It is Diane.

CAMERA PULLS FURTHER BACK and WE SEE that we are in a small

theatre watching rushes...

INT. THEATRE IN STUDIO - DAY

CAMERA PANS across Baden's disgruntled face... the Chief

Cameraman's bored face... the Script Girl's puzzled face...

to Diane's expression of rapture as she watches herself on

the screen.

From Diane's POV WE WATCH the screen. We see the Tall Man

(SHOP ASSISTANT) reaching for a trunk and laying it on the

counter. He opens it with a flourish. Vivian passes across

the screen - glances casually at the trunk - and wanders

off.

The Assistant Director nods.

CAMERA LINGERS for a moment on the screen as Diane (on-

screen) smiles at the Assistant.

The Assistant bows and closes the trunk. We dissolve to

the set itself -

INT. STUDIO - DAY

The Assistant is leaning over the counter, listening

intently. Diane stands in front of the counter, receiving

the attentions of the Make-up Man.

Baden's voice is overlaid:

CAMERA PULLS BACK

The unit is busy preparing for a retake. The studio camera

(and its crew) are off camera, and we concentrate on Baden

briefing his artistes.

He is clutching a script as if afraid that opening it might

be indecent exposure.

Over Mark's shoulder - behind the camera - WE WATCH the

Unit taking up positions.

From Mark's POV WE WATCH the scene being rehearsed. Diane

approaches the trunk counter and the Assistant smiles at

her.

He turns away. She pockets a small item from the counter.

He heaves a trunk forward.

She takes a perfunctory glance -

She pockets another item.  He turns and wrestles with

another trunk... brings it forward and opens it

Mark walks away quietly from the back of the Camera Crew.

He hurries to the shelf where he keeps his cine-camera and

a lunch basket. He reaches for his camera.

Diane's voice is overlaid.

Mark turns towards the rehearsal and raises his cine-camera.

WE SEE the Assistant try to lift a blue trunk - and half

collapse with the weight of it.

CLOSE SHOT of Baden - beaming.

The Assistant manages to drag the trunk forward. He leans

over it - exhausted - then starts to open it.

Mark moves round until Diane's face is in the finder.

As the lid of the trunk is opened we can see only her eyes

above the rim of the lid... WE HEAR her scream.

CLOSE SHOT of Baden - freezing.

There is the sound of a body falling to the ground.

In the darkness WE HEAR a telephone ringing... and then

another... and then another... then they all merge into

one big blast.

FADE IN:

CAMERA TRACKS quickly towards a door marked PUBLICITY

DEPARTMENT.

INT. PUBLICITY DEPARTMENT - DAY

The Head of publicity has a receiver to his ear.

EXT. LONDON - DAY

A police car. There are two men seated at the back.

INT. POLICE CAR - DAY

CHIEF INSPECTOR GREGG is reading a file. A plain-clothes

SERGEANT (MILLER) is seated next to him. The Sergeant

glances at his Chief apprehensively.

Over his shoulder WE SEE what he is looking at - it is a

photograph of Dora in her furs and finery.

CLOSE SHOT of the Inspector staring at the folder.

The Sergeant glances at Dora's photograph.

He starts to turn the page

A door with a sign on it: CANTEEN CLOSED TODAY.

CAMERA TRACKS TOWARDS it.

INT. CANTEEN - DAY

Mark is sitting by an open window at the far end of the

canteen. His cine-camera and lunch basket are by his side.

From Mark's POV WE SEE that the unit (with the exception

of Diane and Baden) is crowded into the canteen.

They have formed themselves into small groups and are

talking in whispers.  The Assistant Director is standing

with his back to the door. A GIRL calls out:

Mark glances at a group in the comer. The Trunk Assistant

is encircled by eager listeners.

Mark glances out of the window.

From his POV WE SEE a police car driving across the

courtyard. Mark watches with great interest - then reaches

for his cine-camera.

He photographs the police, then puts his cine-camera on to

the table and sits back... waiting. CAMERA LINGERS for a

moment on the folded tripod.

INT. SET - DAY

The set is completely deserted. It is lit by a single lamp.

A solitary trunk stands on the counter, its lid closed.

WE SEE Don Jarvis enter, followed by the two Policemen.

Baden and the Publicity man bring up the rear.

Don Jarvis points towards the trunks department. The Chief

Inspector nods, then he and the Sergeant approach the

counter.

Carefully the Inspector raises the lid of the trunk - he

looks inside.

CLOSE SHOT of the Inspector - over the top of the lid. His

expression is mainly one of surprise.

CLOSE SHOT of the Sergeant staring into the trunk. He is

also surprised - but there is nausea in his face.

They look up at almost the same moment... their eyes meet.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

INT. CANTEEN - DAY

He is looking out of the window - his camera at the ready.

Overlaid is the sound of a door opening... the buzz of

conversation dies away. We hear Don Jarvis' voice.

A hand tugs at Mark's elbow. He turns round. The Clapper

Boy looks at him waringly.

From Mark's POV WE SEE Don Jarvis standing in the doorway -

facing a suddenly hushed room. The great man's hands are

folded in front of him -

From D.J.'s POV WE SEE the upturned faces - the light from

the window falls upon Mark, listening to him with rapt

attention. Mark's hands are folded in front of him.

CLOSE SHOT of Don Jarvis.

Sergeant Miller enters with a smile.

Mark reaches for his cine-camera...

A SERIES OF BRIEF SHOTS of the unit being interviewed by

the police.

EXT. STUDIO GROUNDS - DAY

The Young Extra who spoke to Vivian in the exterior set

points excitedly to the wall where Vivian and Mark lay.

The Inspector and Sergeant carefully examine both sides of

the wall. The Inspector stoops, picks up something with a

pair of tweezers and puts it in an envelope.

CAMERA PANS.

A few passers-by look on from a distance. One of them is

watching through his cine-camera.

INT. SMALL OFFICE - DAY

The Young Extra who shared Vivian's dressing room is talking

to the Chief Inspector and Sergeant.

INT. PASSAGE IN STUDIO - DAY

The Policemen and the Extra are walking away from camera

down a passage. A few members of other units pass them by

without a glance. One of these (A GIRL) smiles into camera.

The girl walks out of picture. THE CAMERA (and Mark) TRACK

after the Policemen.

INT. ENTRANCE TO DRESSING ROOM - DAY

As the Inspector opens the door of the dressing room, Mark

hurries past. He raises his cine-camera and photographs

the Sergeant. The Sergeant turns to close the door. He

sees Mark. straightens his tie and looks as severe as he

can.

He hurries down the passage.

The Extra's voice is overlaid - a hint of hysteria in it.

The Inspector turns away, and the Sergeant closes the door.

INT. SMALL OFFICE - DAY

The door of the small office opens - and the Chief Cameraman

comes out.

CAMERA PANS -

On a bench at the end of the passage Mark, the Clapper

Boy, and a member of the camera-crew are waiting.

The Crew-member hurries into the office, and closes the

door. The Chief Cameraman wanders off thoughtfully.

Mark and the Clapper Boy are left sitting side by side.

Mark nods.

The door of the small room opens, and the Crew-member comes

out.

He rises slowly... the cine-camera is over his shoulder.

The Clapper Boy looks at him in amazement.

The Clapper Boy laughs.

He walks slowly towards the door.

The Clapper Boy takes out a copy of Sight and Sound and

starts to read it.

INT. SMALL OFFICE - DAY

The Inspector is seated at a desk, reading some notes. The

Sergeant is seated by the side of the desk, a pile of papers

in front of him.

There is a gentle knock on the door. The Sergeant glances

at a list.

The Inspector nods.

He puts a tick on the list. There is the sound of a door

opening. The Inspector looks up...

From his POV WE SEE a young man with a camera over his

shoulder advancing shyly towards him.

The Sergeant glances up.

He holds out his camera.  The Sergeant glances enquiringly

at the Inspector.

Mark smiles.

He picks up a pencil  taps it idly on the desk.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark's fingers... tapping on his knee in

time to the pencil.

The telephone rings.  The Sergeant promptly answers it.

He replaces the receiver, turns to the Inspector.

The Inspector rises at once.

Mark stands very still.

From the Sergeant's POV WE SEE Mark turn to go into the

passage.

The Sergeant stares at the camera on his shoulder... then

the door closes.

The Sergeant makes a note on a piece of paper.

INT. PASSAGE - DAY

The Inspector and Mark walk side by side along the passage.

The Clapper Boy comes into view - still reading Sight and

Sound.

The Clapper Boy glances up - just in time to see the

Inspector and Mark walk side by side to the end of the

corridor.

INT. ENTRANCE TO SET - DAY

A Constable is standing outside the entrance to the set.

From his POV WE SEE the Inspector and Mark approach.  The

Constable stiffens...  From Mark's POV WE SEE the Constable

barring the entrance.

Mark smiles.

The Inspector hurries towards the door of the set.

The Constable opens it - and the Inspector goes inside.

The Constable closes the door - and stands in front of it.

Mark turns away quickly.

EXT. COURTYARD - DAY

The carpark is jammed with cars - but there is hardly anyone

in sight. Mark hurries towards the large sliding doors of

Stage E - they are a few feet apart. He looks round

carefully, then slips inside.

INT. STAGE E. - DAY

Facing Mark is the darkened set of an hotel bedroom. Beyond

this is another set - also in darkness - and beyond this

yet another. Only in the far comer of the studio - in the

furthermost set - is there a light burning. Voices can

faintly be heard coming from this set.

Mark walks quietly towards a long ladder which leads up to

the gantry. Carefully - rung by rung - he starts to climb

the ladder. At the top of the ladder is a gallery. Mark

moves along the maze of bridges until he is nearly above

the Policemen.

Mark raises his head cautiously - and looks down.

Far below WE CAN SEE the Inspector standing next to the

Doctor - a tall, silver haired man - who is peering into

an open trunk. Detectives are photographing the set. Mark

raises his cine-camera... its gentle purring seems to echo

round the studio.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark's jacket pocket. A row of pencils is

sticking out. As he leans forward the pencils tilt.

Through the finder-matte of Mark's camera WE SEE the

Inspector - very far away - peering into the trunk and

nodding.

A faint echo of conversation is overlaid.

Mark changes lens (and alters the finder to a 75mm lens).

The Doctor's face - thin and impersonal - appears in the

finder over the lid of the trunk.

He points to something in the trunk - out of the camera's

eye-line.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He balances carefully - then raises the camera above his

head. As he leans forward, the pencils fall. WE SEE them

shooting like small torpedoes into the darkness below.

They make three separate landings.

CLOSE SHOT of the Inspector. Looking up.

From his POV WE SEE tiers of scaffolding deep in shadow...

The Detectives make as much noise to become quiet as the

normal occupants of the studio - and then there is complete

silence.

Complete, except for the Doctor's asthmatic breathing...

And then - so gently that it might almost be in our own

minds - WE HEAR a purring sound from the shadows above.

The Inspector listens intently.

There is a burst of laughter - the Inspector frowns.

The 'putty cat' Detective raises his flashlamp towards the

trunk counter. In the brilliant flash of light that ensues,

we glimpse a shadowy figure moving towards a ladder high

in the scaffolding... But then we are looking for it - no

one else is. The flashlight dies away.

The scene fades with it.

CLOSE SHOT of a knitting-needle held upwards.

Another knitting-needle scales down it like a fireman

descending a ladder.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

INT. HELEN S SITTING ROOM - DAY

Mrs. Stephens is doing her knitting. The inevitable glass

stands on the table beside her. Helen is seated opposite,

reading from a newspaper.

CLOSE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens listening intently.

Mrs. Stephens sips from her glass.  The Prime Minister to

visit Athens.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen looking up.

Behind her back we see that her fingers are crossed.

Mrs. Stephens stiffens suddenly.

CLOSE SHOT of the window.

Mark is standing outside - looking in.

Helen beckons to Mark to come in. We see him nod eagerly -

and leave the window.

Helen hurries to the door of the sitting room.

INT. HALL - DAY

Mark closes the front door behind him.

From his POV WE SEE the door of Helen's sitting room open -

and she stands on the threshold.

She holds open the door. He goes inside.  The screen

suddenly greys out into the veiled images of Mrs. Stephens'

world. We hear Helen's voice.

WE HEAR the sound of footsteps shuffling shyly forward -

and then Mark's voice, every intake of breath magnified.

WE HEAR the pounding of someone's heart - and then Mrs.

Stephens' voice.

As her voice dies away.

FADE IN:

INT. HELEN'S SITTING ROOM

CLOSE SHOT of Mark's hand clasping Mrs. Stephens'.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark looking at her, fascinated.

From Mark's POV WE SEE the sightless eyes turned towards

his. Mrs. Stephens' other hand gently feels the surface of

his.

Mrs. Stephens grunts, and reaches for her glass.

The screen greys out. WE HEAR Mark's tiny intake of breath.

Someone's heart is pounding fast.

We hear Mark's small attempt at a laugh.

Again that little intake of breath.

FADE IN:

Mrs. Stephens and Mark are staring at each other as if she

has sight and he hasn't. From Helen's POV WE CAN SEE only

Mark's back and her mother's upturned face.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen kissing her mother and whispering into

her ear.

Mrs. Stephens grunts.

Mark holds the door open for Helen and she goes into the

passage. Mark turns and takes a long look at Mrs. Stephens.

She is in the middle of raising her glass. She stops

suddenly, the glass poised mid-air. He goes out - closing

the door. She finishes her drink as if it is her last.

INT. PASSAGE - DAY

Helen is waiting by the door.

From her POV WE SEE Mark coming eagerly towards her, his

camera over his shoulder.

He looks at her anxiously.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He looks at her in silence.

She holds out her hand. He looks at her, appalled.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

She opens the door of her bedroom - and turns on the light.

INT. HELEN'S BEDROOM

She crosses to a cupboard and unlocks it, then turns round.

He is standing hesitantly on the threshold.

He looks slowly round the room, stares for a moment at the

bed in the comer, but he won't cross the threshold. He

stays outside.

Again he stares at the bed.

He takes off his camera - and holds it out to her.

She takes it from him, puts it into the cupboard, and locks

it. Then offers him the key.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

She laughs.

They hurry towards the door.

EXT. MARK'S HOUSE - DAY

They walk down the steps of the house.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark and Helen walking along by the side of

the house.

Suddenly Mark stands motionless. He is staring at something

off camera.

Especially when -

Her voice trails away... she is staring at Mark staring at

something.

In the shadows, at the mouth of an alley, a young couple

are kissing.

Mark stands motionless, staring at them. Automatically his

hand reaches for his camera. Helen starts to speak - then

looks at him in silence. The man glances round. Mark hurries

away and Helen stares after him.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He turns back - waiting for Helen.

From his POV WE SEE Helen come slowly towards him. She

looks at him searchingly for a long moment.

He manages - but only just - to meet her eyes.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

They walk slowly down the street.

CLOSE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

INT. SITTING ROOM - EVENING

Tony is standing unhappily opposite Mrs. Stephens.

She lifts her glass, and sits, waiting as he crosses the

room.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

A small and very pleasant restaurant, almost full. Helen

and Mark have a corner table. They are dining by

candlelight, and there is a bottle of wine in the middle

of the table.

As CAMERA TRACKS TOWARDS them, Helen is laughing.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He has again won the Academy Award.

His face falls.

Mark looks.

He looks at her in silence.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen.

He hesitates.

A pause.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark listening, engrossed.

The little boy opposite her shakes his head.

A moment's pause. She drinks her wine - shy, awaiting his

reaction.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

He slams the table so violently that a lady nearby looks

around... then reaches for his camera.

Helen smiles.

He turns around excitedly and sees her watching him.

She looks at him curiously.

He laughs excitedly... She looks regretfully at her watch.

At once he looks at his.

He signals to the head waiter... and pays his first bill

for two.

EXT.STREET - NIGHT

They walk along the street very close together, but not

quite touching. Above them a light is shining on a blind

revealing a shadow of a woman undressing.

Mark glances at the blind - then looks away quickly.

He stares ahead of him... and continues to stare ahead of

him.

Suddenly Helen tucks her arm through his, and smiles up at

him... they walk on in silence.

INT. HALL OF MARK'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Helen and Mark come in quietly, and close the door.

She glances round the dimly lit hall. There is no light

under any of the doors, except one at the end of the

passage.

A shadow passes over his face.

He stands motionless as she goes into her room...

From his POV WE SEE the half-opened door - and the bed in

the comer.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark forcing himself to look away.

Helen reappears on the threshold - the camera in her hand.

He looks down at it - then slowly stretches out his hand.

He hesitates.

The door at the end of the passage opens and Tony emerges

in his dressing-gown, carrying a towel. He avoids looking

at them - goes into the bathroom opposite, and slams the

door.

There is the sound of running water.

He looks down at the face which he has found for himself.

She raises her head slowly.

She kisses him very gently on the mouth. The bathroom begins

to sound like a small waterfall.

He watches her as she goes into the room, and doses the

door. A light goes on beneath the door.

He stands very still for a moment... then turns the camera

round and points the lens towards his lips.

Then he turns abruptly, and hurries up the stairs.

The waterfall cascades on.  The screen grows dark - and

the dark-room grows out of it.

INT. DARK-ROOM - NIGHT

The big drying drum is turning, feeding the dry print into

a box. A small motor drives it.  CLOSE SHOT of the box.

Mark is spooling up the film as it comes off the drier.

Once or twice he can't help glancing at an image.

CLOSE UP of Vivian's face, in the image.

Mark stops the motor and the drum, loosens the end of the

film, spools up with a snap, slides the spool off and

hurries out with it.

Mark hurries to his projector, threads the film and starts

the projector. He flicks it on, as if it were a gramophone,

then looks eagerly at the 16mm screen.

Behind him something moves in the shadows

REVERSE SHOT of Mark.

Over the shoulder of someone who is standing deep in the

shadows WE SEE Mark. His head obscures what he is watching

on the screen.

HE TURNS ROUND SUDDENLY -

From Mark's POV WE SEE the processing sinks deep in shadow.

He starts to move towards them, then suddenly stares at

the shadows at the back of the room.

Silence - except for the whirring of the 16mm projector.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark's hand - switching on the light.  Mark

turns round... he is as astonished at what he sees as he

can be.

CAMERA PANS in its own good time to the back of the room.

Mrs. Stephens is standing in the shadows... a heavy hand

rests on a heavy stick... the sightless eyes stare

unerringly towards the light switch.

He stands motionless, staring at her standing motionless.

Above her head an ancient, half-blind camera also stares

at her. The only movement in the room is her smile.

Mrs. Stephens' sightless eyes stare at him.

CLOSE SHOT of her hand - tightening on the heavy stick.

Mark nods.

Mrs. Stephens nods. Her hand touches the black cloth loading

bag, lying on the table.

CLOSE SHOT of her hand - touching the black cloth bag.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark - walking slowly towards her.

At once she raises the heavy stick - pointing it towards

him.

CLOSE SHOT of the stick. It is a shooting stick - with a

sharp spike on the end of it, similar to the tripod on

Mark's camera.

Mark stares at the stick, fascinated.

CLOSE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens - exploring the inside of the

black cloth bag with her free hand.

The screen greys out.

In Mrs. Stephens' own dark-room we hear the hum of Mark's

projector - and the pounding of Mark's heart - and, very

faintly, the sounds of Tony bathing himself.

We hear his tiny intake of breath.

The sound of his footsteps softly approaching.  Like a

chair?

Very faintly we hear Tony singing in his bath.

FADE IN:

The singing dies away, and the sound returns to normal.

Over Mark's shoulder WE SEE Mrs. Stephens holding her stick

in front of her.

Mrs. Stephens smiles - then turns her head towards the

16mm screen.

He takes her arm gently and guides her towards us.

Both of them stare at the 16mm screen... She leans forward -

her face only inches from the screen - the light from the

projector flickering on to her.

REVERSE ANGLE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens. Slowly she stretches

out her hands and touches the screen.

Her head and shoulders blot out most of the screen - but

between her outspread fingers WE CATCH A GLIMPSE of a girl's

terrified eyes.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark and Mrs. Stephens.

He hurries to his cine-camera.

Mark slips a new spool of film into his cine-camera.

He looks at her thoughtfully, then presses a light switch.

A spotlight falls blindingly on to her eyes. He presses

another switch, and then another, until the whole of her

face is shining with light.

He walks towards her. She starts to back away.

The shadow of Mark's head appears on the 16mm screen. WE

SEE him raise his camera - then pull down the tripod.

Black out into the grey darkness of Mrs. Stephens' world.

WE HEAR the purring of Mark's camera - more clearly than

we have yet heard it. (There is the faint rasp of a cog

which needs oiling.) The sound of footsteps approaching...

the purring changes direction.

The purring is on top of her. There is a sudden thud.

FADE IN:

Mrs. Stephens is leaning against the wall... she has dropped

her heavy stick. It lies on the floor a few feet away from

her. Mark is kneeling in front of her - the tripod firmly

on the floor. The cine-camera is pointing upwards into her

face. He peers excitedly into the viewfinder.

She edges towards her stick. He hurries forward and picks

it up. He looks at the spike on the end of it - then

carefully gives it to her by the handle. She grasps it

tightly.

On Mark's focusing screen WE SEE the fear on her face. Her

hand trembles as she wipes away the perspiration.

But it is fear that we are looking at.

On the focusing screen we see her moisten her lips

nervously.

He switches off the camera abruptly, and folds up the

tripod. He turns away without looking at her - and hurries

to the door.

CLOSE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens listening to his movements -

puzzled.

He glances towards her.

From his POV WE SEE the fear in her eyes. He looks away at

once, staring into the darkened room.

From her POV (shooting over her shoulder with a large CLOSE

SHOT of her ear in the foreground) WE SEE Mark standing in

the doorway - and hear, very clearly, his quick, uneasy

breathing.

We hear his quick intake of breath.

He glances towards her - then hurries into the next room.

INT. MARK'S SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

The tapping of her stick is overlaid. Mark hurries to the

door and opens it - staring into the dimly lit passage.

Over his shoulder WE SEE her tapping her way towards him

from the dark-room.

Over her shoulder we follow the stick towards him.

His face is averted... his eyes are closed.

He turns towards her - a small boy who suddenly understands

what contagious means...

They go into the passage.

INT. PASSAGE - NIGHT

He guides her gently down the stairs. Over their shoulders

WE CAN SEE the door of Helen's room.

He stares at Helen's room - then looks quickly away.

Suddenly she raises her hands - and runs them gently over

his face...

We can see his eyes through her outstretched fingers.

He turns away abruptly and hurries up the stairs.

She looks towards Helen's room - then turns slowly towards

her own.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT of Mrs. Stephens opening the door of her

room - and Mark opening the door of his.

CLOSE SHOT of a bottle of whisky standing by a bedside.

INT. MRS. STEPHENS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

She is lying in bed, staring at the ceiling. WE HEAR

footsteps moving overhead.

CAMERA PANS to the window. It is dark.

CLOSE SHOT of the same bottle of whisky - now almost empty.

Mrs. Stephens' heavy breathing is overlaid.

CAMERA PANS to the window. It is daybreak.

The footsteps are still moving about above; things are

being dragged across the floor.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen in a dressing-gown looking out of a

window.

INT. HELEN'S ROOM - MORNING

From Helen's POV WE SEE Mark hurrying down the street, his

camera over his shoulder.

CLOSE SHOT of the Inspector looking out of a window.

INT. DON JARVIS' OFFICE. MORNING

From his POV WE SEE Mark hurrying along the studio

quadrangle, his camera over his shoulder. He is one of a

crowd of people scurrying towards their jobs. Camera pulls

back - Don Jarvis is seated at his desk.

Arthur Baden and the Chief Publicity Man are seated in

front of him. The Sergeant stands by the door.

He catches a glare from the great man.

The Inspector turns round.

The Publicity Man sighs with relief.

INT. STAGE

A member of the camera crew places his cine-camera and

lunch bag on a shelf. Snatches of whispered conversations

are overlaid.

Mark turns round and walks towards the small group of people

assembled round the studio camera -

CLOSE SHOT of a book entitled The Art of Fly Fishing.

INT. CAR - DAY

Through the windscreen WE SEE the entrance to the studio.

The driver glances round at his passenger whose face is

completely obscured by the book. All WE CAN SEE is a shock

of white hair protruding above

He continues reading. The car enters the studio.

INT. STAGE E. - DAY

The (studio) camera is ready for a tracking shot. The set

is redressed as the Hat Department of the store. The

Inspector stands on the dolly, looking round with interest.

The Doctor is sitting in a chair watching everything like

an excited schoolboy. The Sergeant has positioned himself

near the sound crew.

Baden walks on to the set, his arm round Diane's shoulder.

He is talking to her softly. She keeps her eyes on the

floor; he leads her to the front of the studio camera.

He pats her arm reassuringly. The Chief Cameraman nods to

Mark.

From the Inspector's POV WE SEE Mark pull a tape measure

from the front of the camera and hold it to Diane's

forehead. From Mark's POV WE SEE the Inspector watching

him over the top of the studio camera. A man with a shock

of white hair is also watching him... and the Sergeant

stares at him from the other side of the set. The tape

measure in Mark's hand remains steady.

From the Inspector's POV WE SEE Mark replace the tape

measure and take up his position on a small stool by the

side of the camera.

The Doctor sneezes violently - and all heads turn towards

him.

In the nervous laughter that follows, the Assistant

Cameraman whispers to the Chief Cameraman.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark turning round to look at the Doctor - a

hint of hope in his face.

CLOSE SHOT of the Inspector following Mark's glance.

Over the Inspector's shoulder WE TRACK towards the

rehearsal. WE SEE Mark swing out into space on his stool,

turning the handle of the focus-puller. Diane approaches

the hat counter. The Assistant smiles at her.

The Assistant hands her a hat. Diane tries it on.

She bursts into tears and runs off the set. From the

Inspector's POV WE SEE Baden whisper to the Assistant

Director - then hurry after Diane.

The unit dissolves into small, chattering groups. The

Assistant Director hurries up to the Doctor.

He bustles off and the Doctor is left alone. He glances

round thoughtfully.

From the Doctor's POV WE SEE the small, chattering groups.

Then we see Mark standing a few yards away, watching him.

The Doctor smiles at him pleasantly.

He looks at Mark with renewed interest. So does the

Inspector.

From his POV WE SEE Mark and the Doctor talking. The Doctor

is fidgeting with his watch chain. Mark fidgets with his

jacket button. The Inspector then glances towards the Hat

Salesman, who is holding court in the comer. We return to

Mark and the Doctor.

Mark puts his hands behind his back.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark - his last hope gone.

From the Sergeant's POV WE SEE the Doctor hand Mark a card,

and pat him jovially on the shoulder. The Sergeant edges

up to the Inspector.

CAMERA PANS to a shelf in the comer. A lunch basket stands

next to a cine-camera.

WE HEAR the Assistant Director call out:

FADE IN on the lunch basket.

Overlaid is the noise of the unit dispersing. Mark picks

up his camera - then reaches for the lunch basket. An urgent

voice whispers behind him.

He turns round. The Clapper Boy is standing there. The

Clapper Boy glances round carefully. The Inspector and

Sergeant are wandering casually towards the door.

He winks at Mark, gives him the postcard.

CLOSE SHOT of the postcard. We see Milly's face and naked

shoulders framed between Mark's hands.

Mark hands it back.

Mark turns towards the exit.

He hurries excitedly towards the exit...

CLOSE SHOT of the Clapper Boy staring at his photograph.

He reaches for the lunch basket, then walks towards the

exit where the Sergeant is waiting casually.

INT. CAMERA ROOM

Mark is talking at a coin-box telephone.

While Mark is talking he is scribbling on a form. He has

some more pennies ready for the coin-box.

INT. NEWSAGENT'S SHOP - DAY

INT. CAMERA ROOM

Mark rings off. He is smiling. He puts in another 4d (Four

Pence) and dials a number. His pen is poised over the form

he is filling in.

We see the form is a last will and testament.  I, Mark

Lewis, etc., etc., leave, etc., etc., to Miss Helen Ste-

ens all my worldly goods, etc.  He fills in PH.

INT. CAMERA ROOM

The door bursts open and the Clapper Boy appears.

THE SET - DAY

CLOSE SHOT of Dr. Rosen smiling.

EXT. GROUNDS OF STUDIO - DAY

The Inspector and Doctor are standing by the bushes where

Mark and Vivian met.

He turns away thoughtfully.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark glancing impatiently at his watch.

INT. STUDIO - DAY

CLOSE SHOT of Baden glancing at his watch... He whispers

to the Assistant Director.

CAMERA PANS to a comer of the studio.  The Inspector and

Sergeant stand in the shadows.

CLOSE SHOT of sign: PUBLIC LIBRARY.

EXT. PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY

LONG SHOT of very modern, glass-walled building. Helen

comes out with a manuscript in a parcel under her arm.

EXT. PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY

Mark watches her. Beyond him stands an insignificant-looking

man in a raincoat.

EXT. LIBRARY

Helen looks at her watch.

EXT. LIBRARY

Mark looks at his.

INSERT: 5.45.

EXT. LIBRARY

Helen hurries homeward.

EXT. LIBRARY

Mark slowly turns his back and walks away, gradually

gathering speed. The man in the raincoat follows him.

EXT. NEWSAGENT'S SHOP. LATE AFTERNOON

Mark hurries towards the shop... ahead of him a street

clock stands at just on six. Mark unslings his cine-camera

and photographs this clock... then he hurries into the

shop.

The man in the raincoat walks into camera. He looks at the

clock, puzzled, then glances at the newsagent's window. He

gazes with interest at Mark's photograph of Milly, then

walks thoughtfully down the street.

All the clocks in the kingdom chime the hour of six.

INT. NEWSAGENT'S SHOP - LATE AFTERNOON

Mr. Peters is behind the counter.

He turns to the door.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark staring at the key.

Mark takes the key. He starts to smile.

Mark turns to the door.

Mark goes into the inner room; he is still smiling.

EXT. NEWSAGENT'S SHOP - LATE AFTERNOON

From the opposite side of the street, we see Mr. Peters

locking the door of the shop, and hurrying down the road.

The man in the raincoat watches him, puzzled.

CLOSE SHOT of Milly - very angry, in a dressing-gown.

INT. NEWSAGENT'S STUDIO - LATE AFTERNOON

Mark closes the door behind him.

He starts to draw the curtains - and stops suddenly. Over

his shoulder WE SEE the man in the raincoat standing on

the opposite side of the street.

Mark raises his cine-camera and carefully photographs the

Detective through a chink in the curtains.

He draws the curtains - and turns round.

He turns round and walks slowly - and a little sadly -

towards her

BLACK OUT: The screen remains dark for a moment.

AN HOUR LATER - EARLY EVENING

From the Detective's POV, WE SEE the chink of light between

the curtains of a window above the newsagent's shop go

out. CAMERA TRACKS TOWARDS the door of the shop. Mark comes

out, his cine-camera over his shoulder. He has a key in

his hand. He closes the door of the shop... then looks at

the key. He fits it into the lock - then slips it through

the letter-box. He turns and hails a taxi.

CLOSE SHOT of the Detective. He looks at the shop,

hesitates, decides to follow Mark - hails another cab.

EXT.STREET

Mark gets into his taxi. As the driver pulls down the

flag...

Mrs. Stephens' head falling on to her chest.

INT. MRS. STEPHENS' BEDROOM - EARLY EVENING

She is lying in bed - completely drunk - snoring lustily.

A hand smooths her forehead.

CAMERA PULLS BACK

Helen is leaning over the bed. She has her coat on.

She shakes her mother's shoulders. Mrs. Stephens snores

on.

She shakes her again  but it is hopeless. Helen pulls the

bedclothes round her mother, then turns away. She picks up

a large envelope and her handbag, and hurries to the door.

INT. PASSAGE. MARK'S HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

Helen walks towards the stairs. The door of Tony's room

opens, and he pokes his head round.

He goes into his room, closing the door. She stares after

him for a moment, then hurries up the stairs.

INT. PASSAGE BY MARK'S ROOM - DAY

Helen knocks on the door.

No answer. She knocks again, then opens the door and goes

inside.

INT. MARK'S SITTING ROOM - EARLY EVENING

Helen enters and glances towards the door of the dark-room.

INT. MARK'S DARK-ROOM

Helen fumbles for a switch... she finds one and presses

it. A spotlight falls on Mark's projector, throwing its

shadow on to the dazzling white screen. Helen smiles, and

walks towards the projector.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

Taxi arrives and Mark gets out.

INT. POLICE PHONE BOOTH - EARLY EVENING

CLOSE SHOT of Helen. She is standing by the projector,

holding her envelope thoughtfully.

INT. MARK'S DARK-ROOM

She smiles suddenly and opens her envelope. She takes out

a bound manuscript. We see a label on the manuscript: The

Magic Camera by Helen Stephens. She takes a pencil from

her pocket, and opens the manuscript. Then she sits at

Mark's table and writes a note on the flyleaf. The projector

is at her elbow.

A telephone by a man's elbow. It rings.

INT. SCOTLAND YARD - EVENING

The Chief Inspector snatches up the telephone.

Mr. Peters - looking very sick - on the telephone.

CLOSE SHOT of the Chief Inspector.

He slams down the receiver, and jumps to his feet.

EXT. ROAD - EVENING

An empty taxi cruising down the street. It passes the

Detective in the raincoat walking away from Mark's house.

CLOSE SHOT of a note on a flyleaf which reads 'From one

Magic Camera - which needs the help of Another'.

INT. MARK'S DARK-ROOM - NIGHT

Helen closes the manuscript and lays it carefully by the

side of the projector. She turns to leave - then looks

curiously at the projector.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen - hesitating. Like a small girl in

front of her mother's make-up box, she touches the projector

tentatively, hesitates again, then presses a switch. A

beam of light shoots out. We watch Helen's face as she

looks at the screen. Nothing seems wrong for a few seconds -

then something starts to happen to the comers of her

mouth... and then her eyes become locked... and cannot

stop watching. Some kind of sound comes from the back of

her throat. Her hands dig into the table and she tries to

stand up. She cannot manage it the first time - and keeps

on watching, then, like a child waking from a nightmare,

she jerks herself away from the table, and stumbles towards

the door.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark standing there - watching her.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen staring at him... again we hear that

sound from the back of her throat. He looks away from her

at once.

She stands with her back to him. From REVERSE ANGLE we see

her struggling for breath. Over her shoulder WE SEE him

staring at the 16mm screen.

Over her shoulder we see him hurry towards the projector.

The sound of him switching it off.

She wheels round towards him.

From REVERSE ANGLE we see her looking at him.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen  not enough breath to scream... hardly

enough to breathe.

She stands motionless.

From her POV WE SEE him standing in front of the door,

looking ahead of him. She backs slowly away into the shadows

at the back of the room.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen standing in the shadows where her mother

stood.

The room is suddenly filled with the terrified screaming

of a small boy. Helen wheels round. The screaming seems to

be coming from the walls. Mark's hand is on a switch - one

of a number on a panel.

He presses another switch. There is a click, and the

screaming stops, to be replaced by a low sobbing.

He presses another switch. There is a moment's silence.

WE SUDDENLY HEAR the ticking of a clock.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen - listening.

The click of a switch - and we hear a loud snoring.

The click of a switch - and we hear Tony's voice.

Mark listens with interest.

He does so - at once. She walks towards him. He turns away

from her.

Slowly he faces her.

He tries to turn away - but she follows him.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark - his eyes closed.

He turns to his cine-camera, and picks it up. He releases

the tripod.

CAMERA HOLDS on Helen. She stands very still against the

wall. Mark's voice is overlaid.

She is looking at something, puzzled.

The sound of his footsteps approaching...

WE SEE a look of fear spring into her eyes.

WE SEE the spike approaching her throat... but she is

looking at something else.

The spike is touching her throat.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen's face several times its natural size.

She is looking at herself in a large circular magnifying

mirror which has been fitted over the camera's face. The

mirror entirely obscures both Mark and the camera. There

is a small hole in the mirror through which the lens of

the camera winks. As Helen looks at her terrified distorted

face this small hole gives her an extra eye in the middle

of her forehead.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark - crouching behind the mirror, sweat

pouring down his forehead... his finger on the trigger of

the camera.

Helen's eyes are closed. The spike is still touching her

throat.

CLOSE SHOT of Mark  his face turned away from the

viewfinder.

There's the sound of a car pulling up. He hurries to the

other room.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

The Police arrive: three cars.  Mark appears at an upstairs

window with his camera.

He thinks Mark has a gun. They all duck. Mark raises his

camera and photographs them. The Police recover and charge

for the house. Mark disappears.

INT. DARK-ROOM - NIGHT

Mark hurries back into the room carrying his camera. He

knows exactly what he has to do.

Rapidly he fixes his camera on to a hook on the wall. Then

he adjusts the tripod so that the spikes protrude towards

him...

He makes chalk marks on the floor in front of the camera,

then switches on all the floodlights. WE CAN HEAR the

Policemen pounding on the door.

He crosses to a switch - presses it.  The room is filled

with a small boy's screaming.

He stands next to her, and looks at his long array of

cameras. WE SEE that each one of them has been fitted with

a small metal disc (a delayed release), and that some of

the older cameras have flashlights attached.

Slowly he walks past his cameras. As he does, the metallic

disc on each one explodes with a little plop - and the eye

of each camera winks once as if in salute. Some go off

with flashlights on either side of the room. The sound of

footsteps hurrying up the stairs.

Ahead of Mark - coming steadily closer  are the spikes of

the tripod. The mirror on the cine-camera reflects the

approach - and Helen's terrified face.

The child's screaming reaches its peak as Mark approaches

the spikes... Ahead of him, on the small table where his

projector stands, is Helen's book The Magic Camera.

The Policemen are now rattling on the dark-room door.

We see his face, terrified, in the magnifying mirror. The

spikes are against his throat. The eye of the camera is

winking rapidly.

Heavy shoulders are pressing against the dark-room door...

as it breaks in, Mark lunges forward against the spikes.

The cine-camera is wrenched away from the wall as he falls

back. He crashes against the small table, which falls over.

He is not parted from his camera - it is fixed to him by

the tripod, and falls back with him, covering his face

like a canopy. WE SEE his face in the lens of the cine-

camera. and WE SEE his hand - lying limp on the cover of

The Magic Camera.

The Policemen hurry into the room. They stare motionless

at what they see.

CLOSE SHOT of Helen - her face buried in her hands.

The child's screaming stops suddenly... and in the absolute

silence which follows WE HEAR the voice of Mark's father:

And a small voice answers.

The spotlights begin to dim... The dazzling white of the

16mm screen fades slowly into greyness...

The room is filled with the gentle breathing of a small

child.

THE END

