FADE IN

Stars glitter like diamonds on the black velvet backdrop of space.

The Belt of Orion is center screen, but much nearer and larger

than ever seen by an Earth-bound astronomer.

A speck of light appears in the lower left corner of the screen.

No spaceship can be seen, but only a glowworm, a solitary sperma-

tosoan gliding through the womb of the universe. Over this we HEAR

the voice of an astronaut. He is concluding a report.

The cabin is neither cramped nor spacious, but about the size of the

President's cabin in Air Force One. In the immediate f.g. is a console

of dials and switches flanked by four chairs. Only one of the chairs

is occupied. The astronaut's back is to CAMERA. There is a ladder

amidships which leads to an escape hatch. The after Dart of the cabin

is obscured in darkness. We hear the MUSIC of a Mozart sonata emanating

He pauses, looking up at:

One clock is marked SELF TIME, but instead of twelve numerals it has

twenty-four. One of the needles is moving very slowly.

The other clock is labeled EARTH TIME, and its units, like those of a

The largest needle of this clock makes one revolution every second.

This is TAYLOR. He wears simple dungarees (or Churchill suit) and

a cigar from the breast pocket of his dungarees, he lights it, then

He begins to roll up his left sleeve.

He removes the cigar from his mouth, turns to look out through one

of the portholes into the astral night.

He extracts a hypodermic needle from his breast pocket and injects

it into the vein of his forearm. He continues speaking.

Taylor withdraws the hypodermic needle from his vein and secures it in

a drawer of the console.

Taylor snuffs out the cigar butt and places it in the drawer beside the

looks up again at:

The longest needle of this clock now makes nearly two revolutions per

second. The shortest needle points to the numeral 2105.

Space scientists have presumably solved the problem of weightlessness,

for Taylor walks the short distance from; the console to the after

section without particular effort. CAMERA FOLLOWS him, and we can now

see four glass capsules, or "caskets", in the rear of the cabin. Taylor

looks down at them.

One of them is open. The other three are occupied by astronauts: DODGE,

LANDON and STEWART. They, too, wear dungarees and boots. Dodge and

Landon are thirtyish, clean-shaven, virile -- America's finest. Stewart

is a handsome young woman, her hair bobbed short. Their eyes are closed

and they do not appear to be breathing -- yet no undertaker could make

them so alive.

He grasps the handle of his own casket and slowly pulls himself into

(NOTE: Credits will appear here over a series of shots designed to

We see a strange and distant planet. At first the globe occupies but a

small area of the screen; but with each new VIEW it comes closer and

The topography of the planet bears little resemblance to our own. Much

In the FINAL SHOTS of this SEQUENCE we see the strange planet as it

vast lake surrounded by soaring sandstone pinnacles. The water is

blue-black, the pinnacles vermillion. (This is the Lake Powell

Four empty pilot seats are seen in f.g., the four glass caskets in

b.g. We HEAR the RHYTHMIC BLEAT of a WARNING SIGNAL, a RUSH OF WIND

as in a rapid descent, and perhaps the ROAR OF RETROJETS. Then, a

great CRASH as the craft hits water. The whole ship shudders on impact.

glass caskets. There are THREE LOUD METALLIC CLICKS as the glass

domes of the caskets swing open automatically.

He now has a full beard. His eyes come open. Instantly alert, he

rises to a sitting position, gazing across at:

They, too, awaken and sit up, starring at Taylor. They, too, are

bearded.

They nod.

He glances at the casket beside his own.

Its dome remains unopened. The young woman is a skeleton in a

Churchill suit.

Dodge and Landon have joined Taylor and-stare at the grinning skull

of their dead comrade. A low, descending HUM of equipment is heard.

A slight CRACKING sound is heard. Taylor turns quickly away and o.s.:

A trickle of water has begun to seep through a ruptured seam in the

water

The porthole is no more than six inches above the line. In the

distance we discern a shoreline of red desert.

The leak in the seam becomes a growing spray of water. Taylor

turns away from the porthole, calling:

Dodge moves instantly to the ladder beneath an escape hatch and

mounts it. Taylor stumbles down the aisle of the rolling ship toward

skeleton.

As Landon lurches toward the communications equipment in f.g.

We are looking at a lifeless desert of sandstone buttes and pinnacles.

of water that could be the bay of an inland sea. The deep blue of the

Suddenly a snorkel-like tube sprouts from the escape hatch, which is

located amidships.

Dodge, standing halfway up the ladder., has fastened a kit of gauges

to the end of the snorkel tube. He reads the dials, removes the kit,

Dodge reaches for a control mechanism near the escape hatch.

The spray of water coming through the ruptured seam is increasing.

The LIGHTS DIM again and the SOUND of the warning signal FADES. While

Landon fiddles with the radio, Taylor tries to get the tape recorder

The escape hatch is now open. Taylor darts over to the ladder and

through the escape hatch. Taylor is about to follow with a third

Both clocks have stopped: the red needle of the clock labeled SELF

TIME rests on the numeral 18; the red needle of the clock marked

EARTH TIME rests on the numeral 3975.

Dodge inflates the raft with a cartridge of compressed air and

tosses it into the water. He and Landon jump into the water and

climb onto the raft as Taylor emerges from the hatch, Taylor slips

into the water and climbs onto the raft. He and Landon begin to

paddle toward shore, while Dodge immediately opens another kit and

takes a sample of the water.

Only the radio antenna and the tip of the tail fin remain visible.

Dodge is still busy with his kit. Landon is still looking back, but

Taylor doesn't bother to turn his head.

They gaze at the forbidding sandstone battlements as they near the

Low on the horizon, seen through a dense envelope of dust particles.

Landon glances skeptically at Taylor.

As the three astronauts step out into shallow water and pull the

raft ashore.

Dodge moves inland about ten yards, removes a small hand drill

from his belt, extends the rod of the drill three feet and begins

to take some subsoil samplings. Taylor begins to examine the contents

of the three rucksacks. Landon sits down on the beach., hands around

his knees, gazing moodily at the sunken spaceship. During this and

succeeding scenes we sense that Dodge's obsession with scientific

inquiry leaves him immune to fear: Landon is possibly more courageous

and certainly more "human," for he has many fears to control: while

Taylor -- detached, cool and misanthropic -- is something of an enigma.

He seems not to have heard.

Landon involuntarily touches the gray hair of his temple as Taylor

adds lightly:

Dodge enters scene. A handful of reddish sand dribbles through his

fingers.

He picks up one of the rucksacks and puts it on. The others follow

suit.

He moves out. Dodge follows. CAMERA PANS with them. They have gone

only a few paces when Taylor looks back over his shoulder and halts.

Landon is squatting in the sand, sticking something into the soil.

It is a small American flag, the size of a handkerchief.

Mirth bubbles up in Taylor's throat. He explodes with wild laughter.

He is still laughing as they move out.

They descend from the plateau (Ochre Dunes)

Across the top of the hills there suddenly runs a line of fire (Black

Dunes).

Jagged bolts of lightning flash across the sky, but bring, no rain, and

thunder claps sound like heavy artillery. (Gray Area)

SHOT - DAY

Several huge boulders are dislodged, and the three astronauts run.

wildly to escape the falling rocks. When the avalanche ends, they

sprawl on the lifeless sands, breathing heavily and drenched with

Murmurs of assent from Dodge and Landon. Taylor rummages through a

Dodge takes a plastic canteen from another rucksack and inspects it.

Dodge lies back and looks up at the sky.

Landon also looks up at the sky.

Taylor turns to Dodge, throws up his hands.

Dodge rises and moves off, o.s., either embarrassed by this colloquy

Silence.	Taylor lies down, spent of his venom, pillowing

his head on a rucksack.

Taylor's eyes are closed. He is silent for a moment. When he speaks,

who has been wandering around, studying the boulders and the barren

soil. Taylor and Landon can be seen in b.g. Dodge spots something and

squats down to examine it.

It is a tiny desert flower, no more than an inch high.

His eyes light up as he calls:

as Taylor and Landon hurry over and kneel down on either side of Dodge.

The astronauts hover over the tiny flower like three magi perceiving

the infant Deliverer.

He digs gently around the roots of the plant with a small instrument.

TO THE TAMARISK AREA

Absolute desolation (Ochre Area). The astronauts start down

the canyon.

As they move across the terrain (top of Crazy Canyon).

As they jump across a gap. Thunder and lightning again (top of

Crazy Canyon).

They march across Crazy Canyon overlook.

For a brief moment several "creatures" appear. We cannot identify the

species.

Blooming tamarisks border a. dry stream bed. Taylor and Landon hover

over Dodge, who is probing the soil with his drill. Their dungarees and

faces are caked with dust.

Landon strightens up and looks off, startled by something he sees.

with the astronauts in f.g. In the distance, on the skyline, we can

appears to be tied to the crosses.

Taylor plunges into the thicket of tamarisks, followed by Dodge and

Landon. Their view of the cliff is momentarily obscured. CAMERA HOLDS

on the distant crosses. For an instant only, three "creatures" again

appear on the skyline near the crosses. Then they vanish.

as they emerge from the tamarisk thicket-nearer to the base of the-

cliff. They halt and look up at:

We can now see the pelts of unrecognizable animals have been bound to

the crosses and, thus mounted in a long row, seem to make a boundary

or serve as a warning. The living bipeds are no longer visible.

Dodge and Landon are still looking up at the strange crosses, but

Taylor is scanning the terrain at the base of the cliff. The sound of

rushing water can be heard.

He breaks into a run, CAMERA PANNING with him as he moves toward a

declivity in the face of the cliff.

Agonized with thirst, they follow Taylor.

For an instant we see the bipeds again, moving in the same direction.

He scrambles up a rock-strewn gorge and looks off at the terrain

beyond.

The cascade is not spectacular, but the vegetation around it is

startlingly lush. (This location is not at Lake Powell, but at the

Ranch).

His parched lips break into a smile.

The cascade has formed a cool and inviting pool. Thick foliage grows to

its very edge. Dodge is on his hands and knees, testing the liquid with

his kit. The others wait expectantly.

Without further ado Landon ducks his face into the pool. Dodge scoops

up water in his hands and drinks. Taylor	follows suit.

Landon and Dodge immediately remove their boots, strip down and plunge

into the pool. But Taylor does not yet disrobe. Alert and curious, he

strolls along the bank of the pool, looking around.

as he briefly looks around, then starts taking off his shirt.

as they arrive at opposite shore.

as Landon sees something on shore.

as he swims across.

Dodge and Taylor climb out of the pool and squat beside Landon.

The print of a large five-toad foot is clearly visible in the wet sand.

Taylor rises and walks slowly toward the underbrush, scanning the

ground for other sports.

Our view of the astronauts beyond the cascade in b.g. is partially

obscured by broad-leafed foliage directly in front of CAMERA, which

PANS SLOWLY away from the waterfall and HOLDS on the astronauts'

clothing at the edge of the pool. Suddenly and inexplicably a pair of

dungarees slithers away into the underbrush. A few seconds pass. Now a

pair of bronzed and brawny shoulders fill the SCREEN, blocking our

view.

Or is it human? The hair is matted, the face bearded, the jaw

prognathous, the orbital rim prominent.

A brown thick-fingered hand appears from behind heavy foliage and

plucks at a boot. The boot vanishes.

Dodge is standing near Taylor and looking back at the spot where they

left their clothing. Suddenly he seizes Taylor's arm and points

silently at the far bank of the pool.

Another pair of dungarees slithers into the underbrush and disappears.

Led by Taylor, they dive back into the pool and swim to the other bank.

Emerging from the water, they look around in bewilderment. Taylor makes

hand signals to indicate absolute silence and a reconnaissance. The

three astronauts fan out and move cautiously into the jungle (or rain

forest).

ASTRONAUT'S

Little sunlight penetrates this dense vegetation. These SHOTS are

INTERCUT with:

fleeting forms as yet unidentified; trembling foliage; brown shadows

against a green backdrop.

who stop at the edge of the clearing, startled by

a number of primitive bipeds, male and female, scarcely visible behind

trees and bushes on the other side of the clearing -- here a face,

there a portion of a head and torso. Throughout this sequence, the

primitives are never seen clearly or at close range.

reacting. They speak in whispers.

CAMERA PULLS BACK as Taylor advances a few steps into the clearing,

extending his empty hands and beaming like a politician.

There are perhaps a dozen of them. They shrink back as Taylor advances

-- hostile, frightened or both. We now see that some of them are

clutching articles of the astronauts' clothing and equipment. Taylor

stops, stares at them glumly.

Taylor grimaces at Landon.

More shrinking back by the frightened primitives.

A pistol goes off with a deafening crash, and the primitive creatures

scatter in panicky flight. After a while, quiet returns to the jungle.

They examine the remnants of their clothing and equipment and start to

don whatever is able to be worn. Taylor puts on what remains of a

ripped pair of trousers; Dodge starts to improvise from the remnants of

the kit (it is a torn shelter half). Landon, like Taylor, has the

remains of his pants.

As they walk off down the jungle path.

This need not be a cultivated grove. A few trees (peach or apricot or

avocado, it matters not) grow wild in a pleasant glade. Nor is the

grove extensive. The three astronauts sit under a tree in f.g.; the

primitives sit under a clump, of trees some fifty yards away. Each camp

is feeding and warily watching the other. In the distance beyond the

fruit trees is an open grassy plain or cultivated field.

They too are sitting under trees, munching fruit. There are no more

than a dozen altogether.

Squatting on her haunches, eating fruit, gazing back at Taylor. Her

hair is long and black, her skin nut brown, her face hauntingly lovely

and hauntingly stupid. This is NOVA.

Landon looks o.s. at the primitives.

They appear to be agitated although neither we nor the astronauts

have yet heard or seen any cause for alarm. The primitives get to

their feet, sniffing, listening

Puzzled and alarmed by the primitives' behavior, they too get to

their feet.

Taylor turns, looks back at:

From which they recently emerged. There is no sign of life.

They suddenly run laterally across the grove, heading  back toward

their jungle. A rumble becomes audible	it is the SOUND of HOOFBEATS.

Twelve "horsemen" suddenly emerge from the trees, riding abreast at a

canter, like a squadron of cavalry about to charge. The horses look

huge. So do the riders, but at this distance we cannot identify them.

Cut off from their natural habitat, they reverse direction and flee

toward the tall grasses of the savanna (or cultivated field).

With an exultant battle cry they break into a gallop. The hunt is on.

Stupefied, frozen in place.

Coming closer. We HEAR a rifle shot, then a flurry of shots.

A bullet spanks into the fruit trees above their heads. They run,

CAMERA PANNING with them as they race toward the tall grass in deep

b.g.

As the "horsemen" close in on the creatures fleeing on foot.

He reins in, raises his rifle and fires. For the first time, we se that

he is a GORILLA. He wears a simple quasi-military uniform -- tunic,

trousers and boots.

Running through the high grass. He is shot in the back and falls.

He drops at the side of his fallen comrade.

As Taylor rolls him over. Dodge is dead.

The beaters are all GORILLAS. They carry long sticks and nets, and

their task is to flush out the terrified primitives cowering in the

tall grass.

(a)	Landon flees from one rider only to be cut off by another.

(b)	A third mounted gorilla flings a net over a running female.

(c)	Landon lies unconscious on the grassy plain, an ugly gash

(d)	Taylor crawls through the tall grass on his hands and knees.

(e)	The beaters close in on Taylor, blocking his escape route.

(f)	Taylor changes direction and decides to run for it.

Bent low, he flees through the tall grass. A SHOT rings out. Taylor

falls.

Lying on his back. His fingers go to his throat. Blood appears between

his fingers. He opens his mouth in pain, but no sound comes forth, as

Taylor sinks into unconsciousness.

The hunting party has reassembled here beneath the fruit trees. Some of

the gorillas have dismounted; others are still on horseback. In the

middle distance is a crude horse-drawn wagon. The sides and top of the

wagon form a wire cage. Three captive males and one female are visible

within the cage. Dodge and Landon are nowhere to be seen. Two gorilla

porters enter scene, dragging a male human corpse by the ankles, as two

other bearers enter scene with a living burden on a long carrying pole.

Taylor dangles from the pole, held aloft by the bonds around his wrists

and ankles. CAMERA PANS with the two gorillas as they dump Taylor into

the wagon and close the tail gate.

His throat is smeared with blood. His eyelids flutter as he regains

consciousness.

Three primitive males bound hand and foot. They seem docile in

ankles and gazes blankly at Taylor. There is a JOLT of MOVEMENT as the

With a great effort he raises himself on one elbow and looks out from

the cage.

A gorilla hunter stands over a dead man, one foot planted he chest of

his kill and his rifle butt resting on the on   abdomen. Facing him is

another gorilla with an old-fashioned camera on a tripod.

The hunter bares his teeth.

He faints.

The surgery is dimly-lit. (If possible we should be unaware of the

source of illumination.) Taylor lies strapped to the nearer table. He

appears to be unconscious. The young female captive, Nova, is strapped

to the table beside him. She is conscious. Taylor is receiving a direct

blood transfusion from her.

Hovering over Taylor are a NURSE and a surgeon named GALEN. Both are

chimpanzees. Galen wears a bloody surgical apron, the nurse a white

smock. Galen is removing a filthy bandage from Taylor's neck. A door

behind them opens and DR. ZIRA, an animal psychologist,	enters. She,

too, is a chimpanzee and wears a smock like the nurse's.

Zira looks down at Taylor.

Galen paws through a tray of surgical instruments. The equipment is

obsolescent and the room untidy -- like that of a callous small-town

veterinarian.

She exits. Zira runs a forefinger across a dusty table.Her voice is

soft and well-modulated.

His eyes come open. Over this we hear:

Taylor feebly turns his head and looks at Nova. She returns his gaze

with an unchanged empty stare. We sense that Taylor realizes her blood

is flowing into his veins. Over this we hear:

Taylor rolls his eyes toward the apes. Weak as he is,we see his

astonishment at hearing them talk.

as the Nurse reenters with a probe and hands it to Dr. Galen, who

protests to Zira:

He shows Zira infected teeth marks on the back of his left hand.

The Nurse complies, gripping Taylor's skull with both hands. Galen

leans down and begins to probe the throat wound. Taylor passes out.

The cages are no larger than small jail cells. There are four of them.

Bars, not walls, divide the cages, so that all four are visible. Each

of the first three cages is occupied by a primitive male. At the moment

the first two are quiet -- dozing or scratching apathetically. The

third occupant is stolidly regarding a half-dozen brightly colored

hollow wooden boxes, or blocks, Of varying sizes and proportions on the

floor of his cage. He is trying to stack the boxes in such a way as to

reach a banana dangling from a cord twelve feet overhead. He has

correctly selected the first two large, sturdy blocks for his tower

under the banana -- but the tall third block is too unstable on its

small base to support the broad-based fourth block.

Taylor, Looking much stronger, sits on a pile of dirty straw in the

fourth cage. There is a clean bandage around his throat. He watches the

block-building primitive with contemptous amusement.

Both the third and fourth blocks tumble to the floor when the primitive

tries to mount his tower. He stands there, staring dully at the

scattered blocks, then up at the unattainable banana.

A door at the end of the aisle opens and a gorilla named JULIUS enters,

dressed in a keeper's uniform. He quickly closes the door, snatches up

a broom, starts sweeping. Julius is obviously late for work. Taylor

struggles to his feet, moves to the bars of the cage, tries to call

out.

The three other primitives move toward the bars of their cages. Julius

barks at them.

The third primitive goes back to stacking his blocks. Julius comes up

to Taylor's cage, indicates a like set of blocks strewn across its

floor, extends his broom handle to whack the banana overhead.

He returns to his sweeping. Taylor glowers at him. A moment later, the

door at the end of the aisle opens and Dr. Zira enters.

She starts down the aisle toward Taylor's cage. He grasps the bars,

awaiting her anxiously. As she passes the second cage, the primitive in

it shakes the bars, jumps up and down. His tongue is hanging out. Zira

smiles, stops, digs into the pocket of her smock.

The primitive continues to jump up and down energetically. Zira takes a

cube of sugar from her pocket, holds it up for his inspection.

The man eagerly sticks his hand through the bars. She drops the cube in

his hands. He jams it into his mouth.

She moves toward Taylor's cage, Julius behind her.

Taylor starts to open his mouth as Zira comes up to the bars.

He winces, puts his hand to the bandage.

Taylor glares at Julius, slams the bars.

Zira hurriedly takes a pen and notebook from the breast Docket of her

smock, starts to scribble.

Taylor is staring in silent fascination at the open and notebook.He

stops mouthing, points at them.

Taylor gestures for Zira to come closer to the bars.

She advances tentatively toward the cage.

Taylor suddenly reaches through the bars, tries to snatch the pen and

notebook from Zira. Julius instantly jabs his broom handle through the

bars, hitting Taylor in the ribs.

Zira draws back, looking at Taylor in surprise.

His face is twisted in frustration.

Over this a door is heard opening o.s., and Julius' voice, nervous,

deferential:

Taylor looks o.s.

Julius and Zira cross to a stout, imposing orangutan who has just

entered the laboratory. Julius bows to him. This is DR. ZAIUS. Like the

other apes, he wears a simple tunic and trousers, but his garments are

of a Costlier material, and several decorations are woven into the sash

of his tunic.

Zaius crosses with them to Taylor's cage. Beneath his austere manner,

we sense tension, worry. Zira looks up at Taylor, her tone an appeal.

Taylor just glares at her.

Taylor turns to Zaius.

Zira wiggles her fingers excitedly.

Zaius' voice is quiet, but there is steel in it.

Taylor is frantically wiggling his fingers.

He is pleading silently as Zaius' voice is heard over the SHOT.

A warning burns out of his eyes as he stares at Taylor.

Fear clouds his eyes. Abruptly, he stops moving his lips.

Zaius sees the effect his words have had on Taylor. He turns to Zira,

goes on in a more detached tone.

But your behavioral studies are another matter entirely. To suggest

that we can learn something about simian nature from a study of man is

nonsense. Besides, men are a nuisance. They outgrow their own food

supply in the forest and migrate to our green belts and ravage our

crops.

The sooner they're exterminated, the better.

He turns toward the door. A disappointed Zira follows him. Zaius looks

back at Taylor just before going out.

He stares after Zaius, than looks away, slumps to the floor. A pause,

then a VOICE is heard.

Taylor looks up.

Standing outside the cage, held on a leash by an APE GUARD  is Nova.

She looks at Taylor without expression. Zira gestures at JULIUS.

Julius unlocks the cage door-, leads Nova inside, removes her leash and

collar. Taylor has gotten to his feet. Julius goes out, locking the

door behind him. Nova hesitates, then slowly reaches out, takes

Taylor's hand. Zira beams at them.

It is nothing elaborate, A wire fence encloses a dirt yard. This

compound is situated on the outskirts of Apetown and the town is

visible in the distance.

There are about a dozen adult human captives within the enclosure, no

more than a third of them females. Some of them trudge around the dusty

yard like convicts in a penitentiary. Others squat against the sun-

drenched wall.

A big male suddenly runs to the fence and tries to climb it. Several

guides, armed with whips and torches, immediately close in on him. The

primitive recoils in fear from a fiery torch and rejoins the captives'

circle.

He plods sullenly back and forth across the rear of the yard,

occasionally glancing off toward the approaches to the compound. Nova

is at his heels. He ignores her. Once again he looks off, stops

suddenly. Nova bumps into him. He turns, impatiently shoos her away,

then looks o.s., again.

Zira can be seen approaching with a young chimpanzee, DR. CORNELIUS. He

wears a simple smock over his tunic and trousers. Cornelius glances

surreptitiously around, covertly takes Zira's hand.

He gives her a quick peck on the cheek.

He drifts toward the fence, Nova behind him.

They come up to the fence. Zira nods toward Taylor.

Taylor stares at her impassively, then looks around to a that no guards

are watching, hunkers down, begins to scratch in the dust. Nova extends

unclean fingers to touch the bandage on his throat. Taylor flinches,

pushes her hand away. Nova touches a bluish bruise on the inside of her

own forearm, then searches for a similar bruise on Taylor's forearm.

Taylor looks up and o.s., quickly rises.

Who is approaching the two scientists from deep b.g. Zaius is followed

by a huge and much decorated gorilla Whom we recognize as the Leader of

the Hunt Club.

Cornelius bows respectfully. Zaius is patronizingly polite.

He has stepped back from the marks he made in the-dust, is watching

Zaius with concern.

A primitive male squats down to see what Taylor has marked on the

ground. In letters a foot high he has written:

Nova, at once petulant and playful, erases the WRITE with a bare foot.

Taylor angrily flings her aside. This violence provokes the primitive

male, who snarls at Taylor and cuffs him. Over this we HEAR from a

distance:

Taylor slugs the snarling male, who wades in, trying to bite him.

Two gorilla guards rush in to break up the fight. One of them lashes

out with his whip. The other pokes his torch at Taylor. Its flame

brushes his arm. Taylor opens his mouth, gives a silent yell of pain,

shrinks back. Zira runs to the fence.

Prodding the malcreants with their torches, the two guards herd them

toward a doorway in the wall. Zira hurries around the side of the fence

and o.s.

He exits hurriedly. The Hunt Club Leader turns to Zaius.

The hunter guffaws. Zaius turns away and looks down at:

Just beyond the fence we can make out the letters:

Zaius' extended foot appears beneath the bottom wire of the fence. The

foot wipes out the letters.

His face is a mask.

He is slumped against the bars of the cell, gingerly touching a large,

reddening blotch on his arm. Julius watches him uncertainly from a few

yards away . In the b.g., the outside door opens and Zira rushes in,

hurries down the aisle.

He moves to a cabinet at the other end of the laboratory, rummages

through some drawers.

Zira comes up to Taylor's cage, studies him solicitously.

He looks steadily at Zira, who is only an arm's length away. CAMERA

MOVES IN on them. Suddenly Taylor reaches out, snatching the pen and

notebook from the pocket of her smock. Zira leaps back with a cry.

Julius grabs a club, races up to the cage, unlocks the door.

Taylor is scribbling furiously on a sheet of note paper. The guard

moves in, his club upraised.

Julius swings his-club at Taylor's head. Taylor lifts his right arm to

ward off the blow, and the stick strikes him sharply on the hand. He

drops the pen and notebook. The guard swings again, driving Taylor to

the wall. Then Julius retrieves the stolen articles.

The guard returns her pen and notebook with the comment:

Zira glances at the notebook. Her face clouds.

A hasty, almost illegible scrawl:

Her eyes afire with a wild surmise.

Her eyes never leave Taylor as she tells the guard:

The guard shrugs and moves Off 0.3. Zira beckons to Taylor. He comes

forward to the bars of the cage.

The office is simple, almost Spartan. There are books but no bric-a-

brac; several painted portraits of Great Apes but no tape recorder or

other modern office equipment. Taylor sits at a desk, scribbling

furiously on a sheet of paper. His leash has been removed, but not his

collar. Zira stands at his elbow. Cornelius paces nervously up and

down, reading a sheaf of notes Taylor has already written.

Taylor scribbles something on a small desk pad, rips off the page,

hands it to Cornelius.

He looks at Taylor narrowly. Taylor nods.

Taylor scribbles something else on the pad, hands it to Zira, points at

Cornelius.

She smiles. Cornelius bristles.

Taylor has resumed writing. He hands the sheet to Zira, who reads

aloud.

Taylor writes quickly, hands the note to Zira.

Taylor impatiently begins to fold a sheet of paper.

Taylor points to the floor and mouths the word "Here." He flings the

paper plane he has just fashioned into the air. It describes a graceful

arc around the room and lands at the feet of Cornelius, who slowly

picks it up, then exchanges a long glance with Zira.

Taylor scribbles on a piece of paper, hands it to Zira.

Cornelius puts the paper plane on his desk, crosses to a wall map

designed like a window shade. He pulls it down Taylor and Zira join him

at the map.

It's not a map of the whole planet, of course, but only of that portion

known to the apes. Therefore it has the antique and fragmentary aspect

of a map drawn by some Babylonian cartographer.

A swatch of blue at the right margin indicates a sea. In the southwest

quadrant are the "greenbelts" of the ape civilization, looking on the

map like jade stones strung on crescent-shaped necklace. Rubyidots in

the lade indicate ape communities. The northwest quadrant, colored

brown, is apparently uninhabited. East of the green belts is a patch of

green savanna, and next to it the darker green of a jungle. The eastern

quadrants are rendered in yellow, and except for a blue lake, appear to

be lifeless desert and barren mountain. This area is marked FORBIDDEN

ZONE.

Using a pointer, Cornelius orients Taylor, indicating a red dot in the

middle of the green belt.

Taylor studies the map, then pointing at the lake in the eastern

desert, he goes into a brief charade, dramatizing the astronauts'

landing and trek.

Taylor nods, smiles gratefully.

Taylor slams his fist against the wall in frustration.

Taylor strides to the desk, writes something, hands it to Zira.

Taylor touches Zira on the arm, makes a gesture of inquiry.

Taylor bangs his fist on the desk, mouths the word "No!" scribbles

something on a piece of paper.

Taylor thrusts the sheet at Zira, who reads it aloud.

At that moment 	there is a. loud RAP at the door o.s. All turn.

Dr. Zaius enters with another portly figure, DR. MAXIMUS. Like Zaius.,

Maximus is an orangutan.

He hurries to his desk, starts gathering papers. Maximus notes Taylor

with distaste.

During the ensuing exchange, Zaius wanders idly through the office. He

glances at the scattered handwritten notes, but does not read them.

Meanwhile a rattled Zira replies to Maximus.

The gorilla GUARDS enter from outside.

He regards the apes with hostility as they cross to him. One picks up

his leash. Over THE SHOT we hear:

Zira stiffens, looking at Zaius. He is holding the paper plane

fashioned by Taylor.

Zaius looks down at the paper plane in his hand, then back to Zira. He

smiles tolerantly.

He crumples the paper plane into a b all., drops it on the desk. The

ape hooks the leash to Taylor's collar, starts leading him out. Zira

follows them.

The caged primitives are asleep. Julius, the keeper, dozes in a chair

outside Taylor's cage. CAMERA PIVOTS MOVING IN ON Taylor, who is lying

on his side, also asleep. Nova is curled up behind him. At the sound of

a door opening, she comes instantly awake, sitting up and clutching

Taylor's arm. He comes groggily awake, raising his head in time to

hear:

TWO GORILLA OFFICERS have just entered the compound. They wear side

arms. Julius has just risen from his  chair.

He stiffens but does not move. The apes, of course, speak freely in

front of him, believing the animal cannot understand.

As the Lieutenant replies:

The two gorillas exit. The guard crosses to a wall peg for a collar and

'Leash.

Pushing Nova aside, Taylor rises.

As Julius unlocks the door and cautiously approaches Taylor, carrying

the collar and leash.

The heel of Taylor's right palm crashes into the keeper's, chin, nearly

snapping his neck. Julius falls unconscious. Taylor leans over him,

taking his night stick and a set of keys on his belt.

The male has awakened. He stares stupidly at Taylor. Nova is

whimpering, little strange cries of fear. Taylor moves o.s.

He leaves the cage, moves swiftly to the nearby door and exits.

Barefoot, Taylor silently pads down the corridor to a locked door.

Which is visible because of a beam of sunlight from the half-open door

fumbles with the keys, finds one that fits the lock and opens the door.

He emerges, quietly locking the door behind him. Two tethered horses

can be seen in deep b.g., and another gust of LAUGHTER can be heard

from the nearby guard room. Taylor looks off.

As already established, the animal compound is situated on the

outskirts of the apes' community. The strange skyline of the town can

be seen in the distance.

He starts to cross an open field outside the compound. At that moment

we HEAR a shrill police WHISTLE from the guard room. Taylor breaks into

a run.

As the two gorilla officers emerge from the building and run toward

their horses.

He runs down the road, starts across the long causeway that bisects a

small lake, looking over his shoulder.

The community we sue at the end of the causeway is small and arcane.

There are no power lines, no street lamps -- indeed, no streets as

such, but only a small cluster of buildings around a pleasant mall. The

architecture of the buildings is faintly derivative of the simpler and

less rococo work of Antonio Gaudi -- columns and pillars of brick or

suggest an arboreal past.

A small number of apes are visible on the mall:

Taylor darts behind the buttress of a building, casing the situation.

He looks back at:

The two mounted gorilla-police can be seen on the causeway, galloping

straight toward CAMERA. It is evident they will soon spot Taylor.

He retreats from the buttress to a dark archway and vanishes inside the

building.

The vestibule is nothing, no set required, a dark space through which

Taylor moves toward a shaft of light. We HEAR faintly the discordant

chords of an organ. Or is it an organ? At any rate,a strange and

melancholy tune. Taylor arrives at a font.

He appears out of darkness into half-light. The rear of the temple is

obscure. Taylor darts behind a screen. Crouching there, he observes:

The temple itself is small and austere. There is no altar, but against

a plain backdrop we see a statue of the Lawgiver, a Great Ape holding a

book. Below the Lawgiver is an ORANGUTAN MINISTER clothed in black

robes. He stands in front of a closed coffin. A dozen mourners, seated

on comfortable wicker chairs, form a semi-circle around the coffin. The

ape ladies wear cowls.

Crouching, listening, wide-eyed.

As the minister continues his eulogy, a small ape boy detaches himself

(as children will) from the group of mourners and comes marching up the

aisle toward the rear of the temple.

Who is still crouching behind the screen in deep b.g. The small fry is

coming closer. Over this we hear:

The small fry spots Taylor.

The mourners' heads turn. Taylor slinks toward the vestibule.

He is aghast.

Two ushers rise, moving past CAMERA and o.s.

Staying close on the temple wall, Taylor moves stealthily away from the

vestibule door. The two ape ushers appear.

They move toward Taylor.

He runs out onto the mall.

Taylor belatedly sees that he is running straight toward his two

startled pedestrians.

They do a slow take.

He has spotted Taylor. Drawing a folded net from his saddlebag, he

swings it overhead (like a cowboy with a lariat) and gallops off in

pursuit of the man.

Taylor runs frantically from building to building, rounding corners,

vanishing momentarily and reappearing on another part of the mall. At

one point the mountie nearly overtakes him and flings his net, which

falls short. Taylor runs on.

It is an open-air structure, like a Greek theater, located near the

central mail. Steeply tiered, it seats no more than fifty apes. The

dais in the pit is some fifteen feet above ground level.

Taylor enters scene, running toward the amphitheater. Changing

direction, he darts into what appears to be an access tunnel. A moment

later the pursuing cop rides into' scene, dismounts and walks toward

the amphitheater, looking around for Taylor.

Taylor suddenly emerges from the access tunnel and runs up a ramp

encircling the amphitheater. (A retaining wall shields him from the

view of the apes.) Pausing for breath at the top of the ramp, Taylor

crouches behind the uppermost tier of seats and peers down:

THE AMPHITHEATER - FROM TAYLOR'S P.O.V.

The cop looks around, spots Taylor at the top tier, and starts up after

him.

He starts to run back down the ramp, but is suddenly confronted by his

original pursuer (the dismounted cop coming up the ramp. Reversing

direction, Taylor runs around the rim of the amphitheater and vanishes

into an exit tunnel. The cop blows his whistle, summoning another cop,

who joins him in the chase.

In which we see the fugitive, his pursuers and the reactions of ape

shoppers and workers.

A market has been set up on one side of the mall, where street vendors

behind carts or tables hawk their wares: fruits, vegetables, wearing

apparel, etc. As Taylor runs frantically through the market place,

several apes join the chase. In the ensuing pandemonium, like the

proverbial Chinese fire drill, several tables are overturned.

Taylor runs into scene, pauses, panting, and looks back at his

pursuers. Then he darts through the archway into the building.

For the moment he is the sole visitor in this wing. His pace slows to a

walk as he and we observe fleetingly the specimens in what is a simian

museum: Possibly several stuffed and unfamiliar animals; primitive

artifacts and fossils; possibly the skeleton of a dog, a cat, etc. Over

this we hear a shrill police WHISTLE.

He runs again.

Looking at the stuffed animals as Taylor races past. The mother gives a

startled SCREAM.

He starts after the fugitive.

He runs past displays of other stuffed animals toward CAMERA and halts

abruptly in close f.g., shocked by:

stuffed and mounted, Dodge bares his teeth at the world.

Reacting in horror. He hears another police WHISTLE and the echoing

FOOTSTEPS of approaching guards, which mufffle his strangled gasp:

Taylor vanishes in a BLUR of movement.

Order has been restored in the open-air market. Taylor bursts suddenly

into view from a building on the far side of the mall, running in panic

from ape guards in close pursuit. A mounted policeman spots him and

heads him off. Changing direction, Taylor is intercepted by another

mounted Gorilla. And then a third.

CAMERA HOLDS, ANGLING DOWN on the center of the mall. We are witnessing

a hideous game: "baiting the man."  The mounted police do not shoot or

club Taylor, for he cannot escape -- but they circle him, their long

whips CRACKING over his head.

who unfolds his net, swings it overhead and flings it at Taylor. This

time he bags his quarry. Taylor gives up. Spent, docile, entangled in

the net, he stands stock-still in the center of the mall. Guards and

civillians on foot join the circle around the man at bay. They regard

him warily.

She pushes through the simian crowd around Taylor and hurries to his

side.

She paws at the net, crying impulsively:

Zira removes the net from his face. Panting with exhaustion, Taylor

flicks a wild glance at her. He looks demented.

who approach Taylor and Zira. (They are the same gorillas introduced in

Scene 198.) One of them carries a collar and leash. The other presents

an I.D. card to Zira.

His colleague moves toward Taylor with a muzzle.

He speaks at last, his voice hoarse but audible.

The arresting officer steps back involuntarily. All the apes freeze,

staring at the speaking animal with mute astonishment as we:

The compound is dimly lit. Taylor, the bandage now gone from his

throat, is back in his old cage. The other cages, however, are empty --

their occupants presumably having been moved to the surgery or the zoo.

He is seated on a pile of straw in the rear corner, Nova's head cradled

on his lap. Idly he strokes her coarse hair. There is a dull glow of

madness in his eyes, and his manner is one of abstract soliloquy, like

a man talking to a dog.

His manner is now more direct, and educative., but she stares in blank

comprehension. She brushes his moving lips with her fingers. He shrugs

wryly.

Faint footsteps are heard o.s. Taylor and Nova look in the direction of

the sound. A sudden stream of water shoots through the bars and strikes

Taylor in the chest.

An ape GUARD has a high pressure hose trained on Taylor. It forces him

back toward the rear of the cage. Julius, whip in hand, unlocks the

cage, steps inside. He unlimbers the whip., cracks it-'in Nova's

direction. She recoils. The jet of water hold Taylor at bay. Julius

grabs Nova, begins to pull her toward the door of the cage. Taylor

tries to fight his way through the water toward Julius.

Julius swings the whip. It cracks against Taylor's legs, biting into

the skin. Taylor stumbles, falls to one knee

Julius drags and pushes the girl through the door, slamming and locking

it behind him. Taylor, fights through the stream of water, flings

himself against the bars.

Julius shoves Nova across the aisle to a cage opposite Taylor's, locks

her inside.

Julius gestures toward the ape guard

The ape guard shuts off the hose.

Julius strides over to Taylor's cage.

He slashes viciously with his whip handle against Taylor's fingers.

Taylor yells in pain. Julius and the ape guard start out of the

compound.

He sinks to the floor as the apes go out.

Taylor looks desolately through the bars across to Nova's cage. She

eyes him sadly.

He looks at Nova. She stretches her hands through the bars toward him.

Two gorilla officers enter, carrying torches. (These are the same apes

introduced in Scene 198.) One carries a double set of manacles. Julius

comes to meet them. The Lieutenant takes the two sets of manacles from

the other officer, hands them to Julius, whispers something. Julius

comes over and unlocks the door of Taylor's cage. He advances to

Taylor, who does not move, bends down and clamps the manacles around

each of his ankles. Then he straightens, lifts Taylor's arms, pulls his

wrists together, snaps on the cuffs.

Taylor looks across at Nova, blows her a kiss. Julius leads him out of

the cage, takes his leash from a snaps it onto Taylor's collar, hands

the other end to the Lieutenant. Nova and Julius watch in silence as

Taylor is led down the aisle and out the door.

Taylor, wearing his manacles, is seated at a table in the otherwise

deserted chamber. There is an empty chair on either side of him. Across

the room stands a dais with three rude, high-backed chairs. There is a

small table directly below the dais. A third table stands at right

angles to the dais. Taylor looks around the empty room. A door is

opened by a gorilla BAILIFF, and Zira and Cornelius come into the room,

sit down on each side of Taylor. A moment later, DR.HONORIUS, the

Prosecutor and a CLERK enter, take their seats at the third table.

Everyone gets up as THE PRESIDENT, Dr. Zaius and Dr. Maximus enter and

mount the dais. The President takes the center chair; the other two

flanking him.

All sit down.

Honorius rises and bows.

The President appears to be taken aback. He glances at his colleagues.

Sensing that the President has given them an opening, Zira smiles

confidently.

As the Prosecutor continues:

Honorius seems confounded. Zaius takes over.

Both Cornelius and Zira appear shaken by this threat. Sensing their

predicament, Taylor rises impatiently.

Although the judges and Prosecutor have been told that this man can

speak, they react in stunned silence to the first sound of his voice.

Flustered, the President bangs his gavel.

The President refuses to address Taylor directly. Checking a document,

he speaks to Zira.

The Bailiff quickly crosses to Taylor and shoves him roughly into his

chair.

Taylor has begun to write something on a sheet of paper. Zira and

Cornelius remain attentive to:

As the Prosecutor continues:

Honorius crosses to the defendant's table and favors Taylor with an

evil smile.

Zira moves toward the dais. Honorius returns to his own table.

Zira crosses to the dais, handing the statement to the President. He

glances at it, laughs derisively and passes it to Zaius.

Returning to her table, Zira gestures to Taylor to remain silent.

The President rises, starts out, followed by the others. Taylor is

last, being led on a leash by the bailiff.

The inquiry group files through a door into the amphitheater. Two APES

stand guard over a number of leashed and nearly naked human beings in

the center of the pit below the dais. There are three primitive males,

the female Nova -- and Landon. He is dirty and bearded, but his hair is

cropped close.

He turns to Zira, his eyes shining with vindication.

Zaius glances at the accused.

Taylor moves forward for a few paces, stops.

Landon looks catatonic. His face is in shadow

Stunned by Landon's imbecility.

Taylor steps forward to grasp his arm. There is still no response.

Taylor takes Landon's head in his hands and looks at his face. There is

a fresh scar running from his forehead to the top of his cranium.

As Taylor whirls on Zira.

The bailiff Jerks brutally on Taylor's leash, pulling him toward the

door leading under the amphitheater.

The bailiff enters, dragging Taylor behind him, shoves him into his

chair. Moments later the other apes enter the room. All take their

seats but Zaius. Taylor glares at him furiously.

Taylor leaps from his chair, livid with rage, approaches the dais.

The bailiff and a husky guard seize Taylor, who continues shouting:

The powerful guard twists Taylor's arms behind his back and the bailiff

lashes his wrists together. Then the bailiff gags Taylor. His voice is

cut off as the bailiff ties the twisted kerchief around his open mouth.

The guard holds Taylor's leash during the rest of this scene.

Meanwhile, Cornelius has risen to his feet. His tone is firm, but

conciliatory.

Cornelius has regained his courage. Rising to Zira's support, he points

at Taylor.

All rise. The guard drags Taylor from the inquiry room. Zira and

Cornelius stand there, stunned by the entrapment into which Zaius has

maneuvered them.

The office is as unadorned and Spartan as that of Cornelius  -- in

fact, with minor changes in decor, the same set can be used. There are

many thick leatherbound books on this scholar's desk. Zaius is reading

one of them and taking notes. He looks up as someone KNOCKS at the

door.

The two agents push Taylor through the doorway.

The officers withdraw, closing the door. Collared, wrists manacled,

Taylor stands facing the desk.

who falls silent, as if this were the only news of import. We note at

once a change In Zaius' tone and attitude. He no longer treats Taylor

like a freak animal, but addresses him as an imaginative adversary who

must be intimidated by the threat of terror.

Taylor stiffens but says nothing. Zaius lets this prospect sink in,

then continues.

The two burly security agents open the door and enter.

The guards seize Taylor, start to shove him toward the doorway. He

twists around, faces Zaius.

Zaius jerks his head silently toward the door. The apes drag Taylor

through it.

A few hours have passed. Nova is watching Taylor from her cage across

the aisle. He sits on the pile of straw. There is an ugly welt on his

cheek made by the security officer's whip. FOOTSTEPS are heard. Taylor

and Nova look up and off.

A solemn, teen-age chimp named LUCIUS appears outside the cage. The

guard Julius rises from his chair.

Taylor enters scene, coming over to the cage bars as Lucius continues

gravely, with just a note of disdain.

Lucius hands the guard a document. It is dark here, so Julius crosses

to a beam of light near the bars and studies the document. Lucius,

behind the guard's back, signals frantically for Taylor to seize or

strike the guard. Taylor is slow to understand. Lucius shakes his

head impatiently.

Lucius suddenly gives Julius a violent shove. The guard's head crashes

against the bars and he is stunned.

Taylor complies  bringing down the heel of his fist on the nape of the

guard's neck. Julius collapses. The youngster immediately squats down,

gags him, and begins to bind him hand and foot. CAMERA MOVES IN.

Taking the guard's keys, Lucius rises and unlocks the cage. Nova enters

the scene, coming to the bars of her cage.

He gazes at her, tense with indecision. She flashes an imploring smile,

a mute appeal that cannot be denied. Over this we hear:

as Taylor leaves his cage.

Lucius unlocks Nova's cage. She comes out quickly, takes Taylor's hand.

They follow Lucius out of the compound.

A horse-drawn caged wagon (like that used in the hunt) stands near the

building. Zira waits at the rear of the wagon. Lucius, Taylor and Nova

emerge from a doorway or archway and join her. Zira notes Nova's

Taylor and Nova comply, climbing into the cage. Lucius closes the

tailgate. Lucius and Zira move to the front of the wagon and climb

aboard. Lucius takes the reins. As they move off:

As previously established, the animal compound is on the outskirts of

Apetown. The abductors must cross the causeway on their route of

escape. In the distance, near the gazebo, we can see the lights of

several torches.

The caged wagon rolls into scene and out onto the causeway. At the same

time a mounted gorilla leading two pack animals appears on the far side

of the causeway, coming toward CAMERA. Lucius stops the wagon.

As the mounted hunter nears the wagon, we can see two bodies slung

across the backs of the pack animals.

They look out at:

The bodies on the horses are naked human corpses.

In immediate f.g., near the gazebo, is a similar wagon. It has lost a

wheel, and its rear axle lies on the edge of the causeway. Two naked

primitive males can be dimly seen within the cage. Four or five armed

gorilla hunters stand near the wagon: two of them carry torches; the

others are passing a jug from hand to hand-.

The leader of the Hunt Club, still on horseback, holds up his hand as

the lab wagon approaches.

Lucius obeys. The hunters on foot swarm around his wagon as their

leader calls authoritatively:

as the Hunt Club Leader rides over, recognizing the animal

psychologist.

He moves to the rear of the wagon.

Lucius jumps down and runs toward the rear of the wagon.

The hunters have opened the tailgate and are shining their torches on

the humans. They sound ready for sport.

One of the hunters points his torch at Taylor, who, quite naturally,

shrinks back as Lucius runs into scene.

The hunters fall back. Lucius promptly locks the tailgate and he and

Zira run back to the front of the wagon. Lucius snaps the reins and the

wagon moves off. The hunters follow it a few paces, pausing near their

mounted leader.

The fugitives' wagon recedes beyond the gazebo, as we:

The horse-drawn wagon is silhouetted-against the dawn light, bumping

across a semi-arid plain studded with mesquite and sage. (This SCENE

can be SHOT either on the Navajo reservation near Page or on the

Ranch).

This is the same area described on page 24, where the hunt occurred. As

the wagon rolls along a dirt track, the tall grasses of the savanna (or

cultivated field) can be seen in b.g.

Taylor is dozing, but the girl is alert and nervous. She peers out at

the field, apparently recognizing or remembering this terrain. She

nudges Taylor, waking him.

This, too, is the location described on page 24. CAMERA PANS with the

wagon as it rolls into the grove and HOLDS on three horses. Cornelius

sits astride one horse; the other two nags are heavily burdened with

packs and saddlebags.

He dismounts as Zira and Lucius jump down from the wagon

and hurry toward him. Cornelius and his fiancee embrace and kiss

lightly, ape-fashion.

The apes discussing the abduction are out of earshot. Exasperated to be

thus ignored and caged, Taylor kicks the tailgate, shouting:

Lucius hurries back to unlock the tailgate. Taylor gets out of the

wagon, stretching his stiffened joints. Nova follows suit. During the

ensuing exchange the girl seems strangely agitated, pacing to and fro,

her eyes scanning the grove and fields in search of someone or

something.

He moves toward one of the horses. Cornelius starts after him.

Taylor takes a rifle from one of the packs, examines it.

Zira and Lucius have come up.

Taylor makes a helpless gesture, realizing that he cannot present sure

proof.

Nova seizes Taylor's arm to get his attention. Trying to communicate,

This is the same view of the jungle that Taylor saw when the gorilla

Taylor smiles at Nova, gives her a reassuring shrug.

Nova turns away, still holding Taylor's arm, tries to lead him toward

the jungle.

She looks at him sadly.

He and Lucius move off toward the horses.

He walks off to help Lucius and Cornelius. Nova tags along behind him

as we:

The caravan is crossing, in a reverse direction, the route taken by the

astronauts on page 17. The three apes are on horseback. Taylor and Nova

follow in the wagon. They are nearing the row of sinister scarecrows on

the bluff above the dry wash.

They halt briefly and look up at the crosses. Lucius is impressed.

They move off again, riding across the dry wash.

They, too, have stopped and are looking up at the scarecrows. Nova is

plainly terrified. She grabs Taylor's arm, whimpers.

He hands the reins to Nova. She just sits there. He demonstrates.

Nova flicks the reins, reacting in wide-eyed, open-mouthed disbelief as

the horse obeys her.

The party is traversing a red desert to the east of Dead Lake. Great

sandstone monoliths rise from the desert floor. From this vantage point

the horses look no bigger than ants.

This is terrain never before seen in this picture. (Lake Powell

location, a few miles northeast of Wahweap). The party can be seen on

the rim of a flat desert tableland that falls away abruptly to a vast,

irregular river of deep blue water. Taylor, Cornelius and Lucius are

unloading the wagon and repacking their provisions and equipment on the

backs of horses. Zira watches them.

Zira wanders off, falls to her knees.

Taylor looks off. He and the others move quickly to Nova, CAMERA

PANNING with them.

She has been retching. Taylor lifts her up. She is faint with nausea.

Zira squats down beside them.

Assisting Nova to her feet, Zira leads her off toward the wagon.

Taylor watches the departing females, then looks down at the river.

The river winds o.s. between the sheer sandstone Cliffs rising from

either bank.

They start toward the horses and wagon.

Zira is looking curiously at Nova, who stands in the shade leaning

against the wagon as the males enter the scene. Nova's nausea has

passed, and she comes smiling to Taylor.

Consternation slowly gives way to wonder. He grins.

To reach the camp site -- a beach at the base of the gorge -- the party

must lead the horses along a narrow trail that zigzags down the face of

the sandstone cliffs. They have abandoned the wagon.

Sand bars and two narrow beaches are in evidence here. The camp itself

consists of several lean-tos against the cliff wall. Above the camp,

reached by ladders connected to scaffolding, is the mouth of a cave.

Zira is cleaning up the breakfast things; Zaius and Lucius are sorting

out equipment.

A small bowl of water rests on the ground in front of Taylor He has

nearly finished shaving himself with a sharp hunting knife. Nova

watches, a look of fascinated approval on her face. Taylor rinses off

his knife, starts to dry it. Nova reaches out, gently strokes his

smooth -- if nicked -- chin.

Lucius and Cornelius come up, Zira with them.

Taylor grins wryly at Cornelius, picks up his rifle.

They cross the beach to the ladders, when suddenly they hear the sound

of horses. They look o.s.

Dr. Zaius and five armed and mounted apes have come around the corner

of the beach and ride toward them through the rocks.

Taylor scrambles up onto the lower scaffold. Lucius runs to a lean-to,

scoops up his rifle.

The party rides up.

He wavers, lowering his piece.

Zaius' gorillas ride forward a few paces, but halt again as Taylor

shouts:

Taylor aims at Zaius and calls out:

Silence.	Zaius knows Taylor isn't bluffing.

They obey. Taylor calls again:

Zaius turns and whispers to his apes. They rein about and ride away

through the rocks. Zaius dismounts and approaches the fugitives alone.

He is unarmed.

As Zaius draws nearer) Lucius lowers his rifle. But Taylor keeps his at

the ready.

Zaius laughs derisively, then turns to the apes.

He gestures toward the path leading to it. Zaius, Zira, and Cornelius

start upward. Lucius starts to follow them.

He pats the barrel of Lucius' gun, in the manner of a stern but

benevolent non-com, then starts up the trail with Nova at his heels.

Lucius, unused to taking commands from an animal, scowls after him,

then shrugs, adjusting to the Idea.

AFTERNOON

The sun hovers over the lofty rim of the lake like a great red balloon.

The wall of the gorge, in shadow, is a darker hue.

The crenelated east wall, looking like a red cathedral, is aglow with

sunlight. So is the mouth of the cave as the three apes, Taylor and

Nova pass through it and o.s.

Nature has formed a vaulted room here. It need not be enormous, but

should be as weird and fantastic as production capabilities permit.

There is an ape-made excavation in the floor of the cave, some ten feet

square and eight feet deep. Some small objects lie on the rim of the

excavation. Zaius, Cornelius, Zira, Taylor and Nova enter from the

outside.

(AUTHOR'S NOTE: The effect should be an eyeful. I wish to create an

illusion of sunlight penetrating this cave, flooding it with direct,

refracted illumination, transforming it into a kaleidoscopic cavern.)

Cornelius clambers down into the pit, followed by Zira. Taylor bends

down, examines some of the artifacts lined along the edge of the

excavation. Nova sits beside him.

CAMERA (ON BOOM) MOVES IN SLOWLY as Cornelius continues:

CAMERA KEEPS MOVING IN on the group in and around the excavation as

Cornelius continues:

Zaius flicks a hostile glance at Taylor, then looks down at the

artifacts. He nudges them with his foot.

Zaius deigns to stoop and pick it up.

It is only a porcelain fragment, but the head is intact, and it is

unmistakably the form of a human child.

Exasperated, Zira turns to the man for confirmation.

Zaius idly tosses the doll to the ground near Nova. She picks it up,

studies it.

Cornelius tries again.

As Zira again appeals to the man.

Taylor, who has been toying with objects in the dirt, looks up.

Cornelius and Zira cross the pit and Zaius walks around the rim of the

excavation.

As the apes come close. A number of artifacts have been arranged in

front of Taylor.

He picks up the twisted fragment of a pair of spectacles.

As Taylor continues his monologue, he picks up the other objects one by

one.

Taylor pauses. Zaius picks up two of the steel rings, studies them.

She is poking her finger inside the decapitated head of the doll. From

it comes a distorted SOUND.

The apes stare at the doll in astonishment. Taylor snatches the doll

from Nova, brandishes it at the astonished Zaius.

Zaius looks at him, speechless. At that moment the CRACK of a distant

rifle shot reverberates through the cavern. All present freeze,

listening.

Taylor alone is armed. Raising his rifle, he glowers at Zaius.

Cornelius is already crossing the pit. He climbs out arid races toward

the mouth of the cave. Taylor runs after him. Zira and Nova hurry after

Taylor.

Expressionless, he looks down at the doll, then moves toward the mouth

of the cave.

Cornelius emerges from mouth of the cave and runs down the trail toward

CAMERA. He halts in f.g., looking down at:

Two of Zaius' gorillas have disarmed Lucius and are clubbing him with

their rifle butts. Two other mounted apes are driving the scientists'

horses back beyond the trees.

Cornelius, Taylor, Nova and Zira (in that order) can be seen high

above, descending the trail. CAMERA PULLS BACK TO DISCLOSE A GORILLA

SNIPER in immediate f.g., crouching behind a boulder near the water. He

sights his rifle at the man on the trail. Taylor is still too distant

to make a sure target, and so the sniper waits.

This portion of the trail has no cover or concealment. Unaware of the

sniper, Taylor looks down at the camp as he makes his descent.

The gorilla fires.

The bullet ricochets off the rock wall a foot above his head. Taylor

scans the terrain bewlow, looking for the sniper. Nova comes to his

side, pointing at:

His head is visible behind the boulder as he reloads his piece	.

He aims and fires.

Taylor has missed him, but the sniper ducks behind the boulder.

Taylor takes her hand and they race back up the trail to where Zira is

standing. Outcroppings of rock offer some  cover here. Taylor pushes

Nova down behind a rock and signals for Zira to follow suit.

The sniper's SECOND SHOT rings out. Instead of returning the fire,

Taylor looks up the rail at:

He is standing impassively on the trail a short distance below the

mouth of the cave.

Bent low, he comes charging up the trail toward Zaius. The sniper's

THIRD SHOT splatters rock fragments around him.

Zaius starts to retreat to the cave, but stumbles and falls on some

loose shale. No sooner has Zaius regained his feet than Taylor

overtakes him. Seizing the ape around the neck with his left arm.

Taylor drives the muzzle of his pistol into Zaius' kidney. He spins

Zaius around, using him as a shield.

Taylor releases the pressure on Zaius' throat but keeps the gun pointed

at his back.

His command echoes from the west wall of the canyon.

The sniper emerges from behind a boulder near the shore, and walks off

along the beach.

Taylor lift's the muzzle of his rifle and presses it against the back

of Zaius' head.

They move off down the trail.

Zira rushes down the trail to Lucius, who is sprawled on the ground. He

has a bloody nose and a lump on his forehead. Nova and Cornelius come

next, then Taylor, prodding Zaius ahead of him at gun point. Lucius

appears to be more humiliated than hurt.

Lucius looks to Taylor for confirmation. Taylor nods. The young ape

hurries away through the rocks. Taylor crosses to a useless saddle,

picks up a coil of rope, gestures at Zaius, indicating a nearby tree.

Zaius squats on the ground beside the tree. Taylor sets his rifle

against the trunk, fashions a noose and places it around Zaius' neck.

Then, using an ingenious combination of knots, he ties Zaius' hands

behind his back, and finally fastens the rope around the base of the

tree.

Zira and Cornelius look down at the captive mandarin. Their rebellious

spirit has evaporated, and they are clearly afraid.

As Zira and Cornelius look at him expectantly.

Cornelius crosses to Zaius, and takes a small book bound in black

leather from the breast pocket of his tunic.

Cornelius thumbs through the book, finds the citation and reads aloud:

Cornelius falls silent and looks down at Zaius.

Lucius hurries out of the rocks leading a saddled horse. Zaius' five

mounted gorillas appear behind him. Taylor calls out to them:

Lucius comes up with the horse. Taylor checks the provisions in the

saddlebags. Lucius is frowning.

Taylor mounts the horse, extends a helping hand to Nova, who vault's

nimbly onto the horse's rump. Taylor looks at Zira and Cornelius.

He reaches down, grasps Cornelius' hand, then grins crookedly.

Taylor smiles, leans down, kisses her.

He extends his hand to Lucius, who takes it.

Taylor looks piercingly at Zaius, more troubled than offended.

Taylor shakes his head, still baffled, digs his heels into the horse's

flank. It canters off along the sandy shore.	Zira, Cornelius and

Lucius sadly watch the departure.

Cornelius moves quickly to remove the rope from Zaius' neck. Behind

them, the five mounted gorillas gallop forward. Zaius gets up, waves

them to a halt.

Taylor looks back, sees that Zaius has stopped the mounted apes, slows

his horse to a trot, smiles at Nova.

Zaius watches as Taylor's horse moves farther away along the beach.

Then he turns to an ape called MARCUS.

He remounts his horse and rides o.s.

Cornelius throws himself at Zaius.

Zaius looks emptily at one of his apes.

A hairy hand is clapped over Cornelius' mouth. He is dragged off,

struggling, kicking. Julius, unafraid, glares at Zaius.

Zaius looks benevolently at Julius.

Julius and Zira look at each other, befuddled. Once more their eyes

follow the retreating figures of Taylor and Nova. The beach separating

the water from the canyon becomes narrower as they move downstream.

His face is A mask, his tone enigmatic.

A moment later, as they watch, Taylor and Nova vanish around the bend.

Taylor and Nova are already far downstream. There is a striking change

in the terrain. The area is still desolate,but some vegetation can be

to form a vast tidal basin where it meets the sea.

A NOTE ON PRODUCTION: If feasible at new location site, this scene

should be shot at high tide, so that the water laps at the base of the

cliffs, making a passage difficult and risky.

He is alert, sniffing the salt air, sizing up the situation. Hearing

the CRIES of birds, he reins in and looks' up.

Sea gulls are soaring overhead.

His expression is expectant, searching. Nova emits a whimper of

anticipation, pointing off.

A verdant forest atop a distant palisade. Their view of the beach below

the forest, is cut off by a rocky promontory in the middle distance.

He smiles at her hopefully.

The horse moves off at a trot, CAMERA PANNING. But they have gone only

a short distance when they hear the distant THUNDER of an EXPLOSION.

Taylor reins in and looks back.

A column of smoke and dust rises from the exploded cave far upstream.

Frowning with concern, Taylor gazes for a moment at the smoke, then

decides this is no time to linger. He digs his heels into the horse's

flanks and they move off at a canter, riding toward the promontory that

splits the beach. They are nearing the promontory that blocks their

view of the beach beyond.

As they round the promontory, the tip of a strange rock formation comes

into view. it appears to be jutting from the sea.

He reins in momentarily, baffled by what he sees. Then he rides on.

An immense column juts from the beach at a thirty-degree angle. We can

now see that it is not rock, but metal. Green metallic tints show

through its gray salt-stained surface. As we draw closer, the object

takes on the appearance of a massive arm, its top shaped like a hand

holding a torch.

Frowning with consternation. His horse proceeds at a slow walk.

Near the base of the column, where the shore and water meet, are a row

of metal spikes. From this angle they look like tank traps.

Dumbfounded, he slides from his saddle, approaches the  spikes. Nova

dismounts and follows him.

He falls to his knees, buries his head in his hands. CAMERA SLOWLY

DRAWS BACK AND UP to a HIGH ANGLE SHOT disclosing what Taylor has

found. Half-buried in the sand and washed by the waves is the Statue of

Liberty.

