The end of a final wave of students head to class.

Precious scurries behind them donning the red scarf and

lugging her book bag.

Precious sighs.

Precious gathers her belongings. The other children watch

every move in silence. When she reaches the front of the

class ...

An unconvinced Precious grins sadly as Mrs. Lichenstein

motions for Precious to step out ahead of her.

Mr. Wicher looks abandoned. The door closing behind Precious

might as well be to a prison cell block. Noise inside the

classroom returns immediately.

Precious heads off down the wide hallway in silence.

Precious waits among plants, plaques, pictures and file

cabinets while Mrs. Lichenstein sits across from her reading

from a file.

Mrs. Lichenstein closes the file and sets it on the desk

between them.

Precious stares at the file without responding.

Precious shrugs her shoulders.

Precious doesn't respond.

Precious doesn't respond.

Precious starts to rise.

Precious sits and sighs.

Now I heard everything. Nosy        I'm not the enemy here. If

ass white bitch mad 'cause          h

she can't come over my house.        ome that you would like to

I don't be coming to this           talk about, you should feel

bitch's house in Weschesser.        free to do so here. If you

I'll be damned. I done heard        find that the added stress of

everything. White bitch wanna       caring for your child is

visit. Then I thought about         affecting your concentration,

Mr. Wicher all alone up             that would be helpful to

against the fools in his maff       know.

class ...

No answer.

The hand on Precious' lap makes a fist.

Precious lunges from her chair and reaches over the desk.

Mrs. Lichenstein vaults backwards in terror and tumbles to

the floor.

Precious bursts out of Mrs. Lichenstein's office and walks to

the exit. Mrs. Lichenstein's distant voice still cries for

security.

Precious heads down the hall without looking back. Mrs.

Lichenstein's CRIES are still audible.

A faucet runs.

Precious stands over the sink washing dishes. A moment later,

a WOMAN'S VOICE speaks over the sound of a TELEVISION.

Precious freezes. Her HEART BEATS loudly.

A SCREECHING CAR echoes distantly.

MARY - INCREDIBLY LARGE, OILY SKIN, ILL-FITTED WIG AND HOUSE

DRESS sits on the couch with her back turned to Precious.

This woman looks as if she is one with the furniture.

A cigarette smolders between her fingers as she watches "THE

PRICE IS RIGHT" on television.

Precious, still waiting for the other shoe to drop, looks

momentarily relieved and returns to the dishes until ...

CRACKKKK!

A thick glass ashtray smashes into Precious' head.

Precious falls and lands ...

...onto a bed completely naked.

CARL KENWOOD JONES, A LARGE AND NAKED MAN MUCH MORE THAN

TWICE HER AGE falls on top of her and gyrates.

Moments later...

An enormous hand muzzles her.

Precious lays there impassively as her vacant eyes fixate on

a long crack in the ceiling.

As we drift towards the crack it seems to widen -to open into

another world where...

Blinding flashbulbs pop everywhere.

Precious walks the red carpet with Tom Cruise. They head

toward the entrance of the theatre stopping occasionally to

sign autographs. Both sport matching sunglasses. The

paparazzi is going wild.

THUNDER RUMBLES. Precious removes her sunglasses and searches

the sky.

A LIGHTENING CRACK ROARS. Rain starts to fall as ...

Drops of water seep from the crack in the ceiling accompanied

by the sound of distant THUNDER and MASCULINE GRUNTS morphing

into...

Eyes closed with ashes and tears on her face, Precious lays

still on the floor. Her hands are still wet from the dishes.

GOOOSH! 2 gallons of water splash down on her. Her eyes

spring open.

Mary stands over Precious with a large dripping pot in her

hands. She drops it on the floor and returns to the couch to

watch another program.

Pots and pans sizzle on the stove.

Precious, now wearing a dry T-shirt, tends to dinner

meticulously until ...

ANNNNT! The sharp sound of a BUZZER rings.

Mary and Precious turn to the door in unison.

Here is our first good look at Mary. She wares way too much

make up.

Precious wipes her hands and heads for the door though Mary

sits much closer to it.

Precious presses TALK on the intercom.

Precious heads back to the dishes until ...

ANNNT! The buzzer again.

Precious returns to the intercom.

ANNNT!

ANNNT!

Precious sighs and presses LISTEN.

Precious' face goes blank. Mary looks alarmed and mutes the

television.

Mrs. Lichenstein stands by the buzzer bundled up. THUMPING

RAP MUSIC FROM A CAR passes behind her.

She bounces lightly to the beat.

Precious and Mary still try to sort this out.

Precious presses TALK.

Precious presses LISTEN.

Precious looks unsure.

A young man exits the building smoking a cigarette. Mrs.

Lichenstein puts her hands together, dramatically pleads for

a smoke and gets one.

She puts it in her mouth and lights hers to his. Bouncing to

stay warm, she nods in gratitude as the man walks off.

Precious presses TALK.

ANNNT!

Precious presses LISTEN.

Precious looks at her mother. Mary clearly finds this all

bizarre.

Precious presses TALK.

Precious presses LISTEN.

Precious presses TALK.

Precious releases the button.

Precious presses LISTEN.

Mrs. Lichenstein bounds off into the night with her

cigarette.

Precious leans against the refrigerator glowing.

There is silent movement behind Precious.

Mary approaches quietly wielding a skillet.

Mary swings for a head shot but Precious easily sidesteps the

blow.

The refrigerator takes the hit and a new dent.

Precious stares calmly at her mother.

Mary almost looks ashamed.

Still aglow, Precious grins absently at her mother and then

leaves the kitchen.

Mary watches her go and then struts back to the television

speaking to herself.

Precious, now dressed for bed and still beaming, pulls the

covers to her chest.

The sun rises into the sky. The shadow of a tree draws

shorter as does that of an open gate.

The clock on the night stand reads 8:29.

We drift back to find Precious sitting on the side of her bed

fully dressed with neon yellow leggings and her red scarf as

she stares at the clock.

Various sheets of colored construction paper display

Precious' handprints on the wall. Their sizes increase

progressively and end beside a poster of Cyndi Lauper.

When the clock reads 8:30, Precious stands, looks in a

mirror, sees a pretty blond white girl and leaves the room.

Precious heads for the front door.

DUNK, CLINK, CLONK, CLANK -Precious opens 4 locks with swift

precision.

Precious leaves slamming the door behind her.

We track with Precious as she exits her building. RUBY, A

DARK-SKINNED HEAVY-SET LITTLE GIRL WITH A "NATURAL" HAIRSTYLE

WHO COULD EASILY PASS FOR A YOUNGER PRECIOUS, trails

Precious. A naked blond armless Barbie doll dangles by it's

hair from Ruby's hand.

Precious stops abruptly and turns around.

Precious heads away into the distance.

Precious walks gazing upward.

Street lamps pass beneath the sky as autumn leaves fall from

nowhere.

Precious looks down to find three skinny boys, each much

smaller than she, taunting her.

The boys burst out in laughter slapping hands and grabbing

their crotches.

Pointing at her leggings, the boys erupt some more.

Precious crashes to the ground. The boys look surprised a

moment and then howl harder than ever.

The boys continue to taunt her from above. Precious stares

into space as if they aren't there.

Precious in Black leotards, fishnet stockings and patent

leather shoes tap dancing away. She finishes her number as

Tom Cruise walks into frame clapping. Tom gives her a hug and

a friendly lick on the ear.

Precious continues to stare into space as a dog licks on her

ear.

Precious walks amongst a crowd of people and stops to stare

at the Hotel Theresa, a beautiful pre-war building.

Precious enters the lobby. An older black man in a blue

uniform sits in a chair reading the Daily News through thick

glasses.

He doesn't move, react, speak to or look at Precious as she

passes him.

Precious glances back at him as she reaches the elevators,

presses the button and waits.

The elevator doors open. Precious steps inside and turns

around. Her eyes widen and time slows down. The sound of WIND

rises.

Moments later, Precious snaps out of her daze and hastily

pushes button 19.

The doors close.

Precious rises....5....8....14....15....and....

DING! 19.

The elevator doors fly open.

Precious steps out to find an AFRICAN AMERICAN WOMAN IN HER

EARLY 30'S WEARING HER HAIR IN "CORNROWS".

She sits behind a desk while speaking on the phone.

Cornrows slams the phone down, mumbles and looks over a file.

Suddenly, Precious looks very concerned.

Precious looks both angry and disappointed.

Precious nods.

Precious doesn't look as convinced.

ECU - SHEET OF PAPER

Precious neatly writes CLAIREECE P. JONES on the top of the

page.

Precious sits alone behind a smattering of empty desks in a

bright classroom.

She looks over her test, exhales and starts to write.

A TICKING CLOCK accompanies ...

...misspelled words

...eraser shreds

...tapping feet

...sweat

...giant letters

...tapping thumb

...tapping pencil

...frowns

...giant numbers

...eraser shreds

...sighs

BZZZPFFT!

Precious looks up sharply.

A square fluorescent light in the ceiling blinks and buzzes

as if struggling to stay alive.

We tilt down from the blinking light to find that we are in a

different place ...

A YOUNGER PRECIOUS with uncombed hair sits with her back to

us in a bright pink dress. She is at the very back of the

classroom.

The many children seated in front of her are all blurs that

gradually fade into darkness while raising their hands.

As we drift towards young Precious, the stains on her dress

become more apparent.

As we continue drifting, the PLAYGROUND VOICES OF OTHER YOUNG

CHILDREN ECHO out...

Precious mumbles something to herself.

Boys makes a lengthy FARTING sound triggering a CHORUS OF

LAUGHTER.

Our drift finally lands on a puddle of urine at her feet.

GIGGLES fill the air. A small pencil falls into the puddle

making a large ripple.

INT. CLASSROOM - DAY - PRESENT

Precious' pencil point has broken but she still holds the

pencil as if about to write.

CONTINUED:

Precious sits with an absent look on her face and a bead of

sweat on her temple. A moment later, a shadow moves over her

test.

The administrator stands over Precious waiting for an answer.

Precious looks up to her blankly.

Precious nods absently.

The administrator gently takes the test from Precious' desk

and leaves.

Precious lingers pensively in the back of the room.

Precious walks with her hands in her pockets watching the

pavement pass beneath her.

Precious leaves us behind.

...A hand shuts off a shower .

...A toothbrush lands in a mug .

...A hairbrush lands on a dresser.

...Thick hands remove a red scarf from a drawer.

...The clock on the night stand reads 8:29.

Precious sits on the side of her bed fully dressed with red

leggings and her red scarf staring at the clock with a

notebook in her hands.

When the clock reads 8:30, she stands, turns to a mirror,

sees a pretty blond white girl and leaves the room.

...Precious stares into the refrigerator.

...Precious stares into the freezer.

Finally, she closes the door.

No answer.

The air changes. Time stands still.

A look that is both childlike and gray comes over Precious'

face.

Large panties fall to the floor from beneath the sheets.

Mary's knees widen beneath the covers.

A frozen Precious stares across the apartment for a brief

eternity.

Finally, she dashes for the front door, throws open the locks

and bolts out of the apartment slamming the door behind her.

Precious walks briskly.

Precious stops and looks up at something.

Before her stands a fast food restaurant with a giant sign

atop it that says KICKIN FRIED CHICKEN.

Precious looks around, takes a deep breath and steps inside.

Precious approaches the counter with a strained

"nonchalance".

A MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN IN A HAIR-NET waits behind the register.

Precious sets her notebook and pencil down on the nearest

table.

Precious' eyes wander from the fry bin all the way over to a

refrigerator towards the back.

The woman chuckles and then leaves for the chicken.

The digital clock on the wall reads 8:53.

Precious whirls around to see A YOUNG MAN CIGARETTE IN HIS

MOUTH spraying the door with glass cleaner and then wiping it

from the bottom up.

Precious turns back around to find her server selecting

pieces of chicken from a huge tray with large silver tongs.

The clock on the wall reads 8:54.

Precious turns to the door again to find the young man still

cleaning it.

Precious turns back around to see her server returning with a

basket of chicken.

The woman nods, sets the chicken on the counter and heads

back towards the refrigerator in one fluid motion.

The young man wipes the top of the front door and looks to be

about finished.

Precious bursts out of the restaurant with the bucket under

one arm and sprints off down the block.

A SCREAM from inside follows.

A second later, Reggie, the young man who cleaned the glass,

dashes out after Precious.

Precious looks back while sprinting and scarfing down pieces

of chicken at a remarkable rate.

Across the street, SHEILA, Reggie's pregnant girlfriend,

screams at him.

Reggie stops dead in his tracks. Shit! Busted. He lights up a

cigarette, about faces and prepares for her rant.

Precious turns the corner of 126th street and onto Clayton

Powell Jr. Boulevard still devouring chicken.

A SKINNY DISHEVELED MAN sitting on a standpipe calls out to

her.

Precious finishes off the chicken at the exact moment she

reaches the Hotel, stuffs the bones and basket into a trash

bin and dashes into the building.

Precious looks at her watch and then freezes as if something

terrible has just dawned on her.

Precious' notebook and pencil sit on the table where she left

them.

Precious looks crestfallen. A glance at her watch makes it

worse.

Ms. Rain finishes marking the roll sheet, places the cap on

her pen and holds up a notebook identical to the one Precious

left at the Kickin Fried Chicken.

Precious sucks her teeth in self-disgust as she looks around

to find that all the other girls have theirs.

JO ANN ROGERS -CAREFREE, CUTE AND SMUG, then breezes into the

room with an air of insubordination.

Jo Ann points into her mouth, which is full.

Jo Ann rolls her eyes and sits beside Precious.

Jo Ann rolls her eyes.

Jo Ann returns the notebook to Precious.

Jo Ann shrugs her shoulders, looks down and then turns her

eyes to Precious' stomach.

Precious looks down and shrugs her shoulders.

Ms. Rain points to the blackboard where each of the 5

questions are written neatly to the side.

Precious looks her over.

Big redbone girl big like me      My favorite color is blue.

but don't talk funny like how     I cook good. My mother usta

coconut head peoples do.          have a restaurant on Seventh

Rhonda turns to Rita who sits beside her.

Skinny Spanish girl seem a       ...and never got my reading

little sad but maybe jus         and writing together. My

quiet. Could be bofe. I check    favorite color is black but I

into it.                         guess you could tell that.

Jo Ann points to herself as if to say, "Me?!" and Ms. Rain

shakes her head and points to Rita.

Jermaine is next in line.

What the hell is going on in

h                                ...Red is my favorite color.

kere? Is she a man? What         Usta be blue. I'm a good

kinda school is this? I don't    dancer if I do say so. A

don't have to tell you, is a     / Teach One. I came here to

boy's name.                      get away from bad influence.

Ooohhh, dis pretty Spanish        ...by asking nonthreatening

girl, coffee cream color wit      questions that allow you to

long ol' good hair. She look      share yourself with the group

nice but got some attitude.       without having to reveal more

Ain' like she tha first tho.      of yourself than might be

Precious is next.

Precious doesn't respond.

Precious exhales looking astoundingly grateful and then turns

to Jo Ann.

Ms. Rain and the class look confused.

Jo Ann like the spotlight and   I was born in King's County

can't sit still. Teacher        Hospital. My mother moved us

don't need no outside           to Harlem when I was nine

policin' tho. She ain'          years old. I'm here to get my

'fraid. I wonder what is a      G.E.D., then, well I'm

record layer anyway.            already into the music

Surprised, Ms. Rain and the class turn to Precious. She is

visibly uncomfortable and seems as if trying to hide in plain

sight.

The air is sucked out of the room.

The distant desk vanishes over Precious' shoulder.

Precious exhales.

Precious thinks for a moment and then shrugs.

Precious shakes her head.

The room waits.

The room continues to wait.

Precious looks around but seems to be searching inside more

than anywhere else.

After a moment...

The class is quietly taken aback.

Precious smiles as if having just made it ashore from a ship

lost at sea.

Precious walks off alone still beaming from the new world she

has discovered.      P

The ghostly image of Ms. Rain appears on the sidewalk ahead

of Precious. It is a glimpse from back in the classroom. Her

voice ECHOES.

Ms. Rain vanishes and Precious shakes her head.

Precious continues into the distance.

Ms. Rain writes the letter A on the board and then hands the

chalk to Jermaine. Jermaine writes B and then hands it to

Consuelo. Consuelo writes C and hands it to Rhonda. Rhonda

writes D and hands it to Rita.

Rita takes a step and starts to cry. She drops the chalk. It

shatters on the floor.

Rita picks up the largest shard of chalk from the floor and

writes E on the board. She hands the chalk to Precious and

Precious writes F.

The entire class sits simultaneously and then giggles at

their synchronicity.

The girls begin to write.

Precious soon sets her pencil down, moves her hands to her

stomach and looks faint. She gathers herself, catches her

breath and trudges on.

Precious and Ms. Rain sit close together over a small table

looking down at a large colorful children's book.

Precious looks up at her blankly and then back down at the

book with trepidation.

Precious looks mortified and starts breathing heavily.

RAPID MONTAGE - DOOR SLAMS, MOANS, PANTING, PLATES BREAKING,

MEAT SIZZLING, ZIPPERS, GRUNTS, SQUEAKING BED SPRINGS,

LAUGHTER, SCREAMS, A RAZOR SLICING YOUNG FLESH, SWEAT and

DAYTIME TELEVISION all assault her mind's senses.

Ms. Rain speaks with a dire look of concern on her face but

no words come out.

She places a hand on Precious' shoulder and the kaleidoscope

of sounds sucks away into the air. The words from Ms. Rain's

mouth finally register.

Ms. Rain jumps.

Ms. Rain looks down perplexed.

Ms. Rain sighs. She sits back for a moment and looks as if

she's processing more than just the tragedy of this

particular situation but what is that of countless others.

In a decisive, almost militaristic movement, Ms. Rain sits up

again.

Precious looks back down at the page. There are people of

various colors on a beach.

Ms. Rain points to the letter A. It is the first word on the

page.

Ms. Rain points to the next word.

Precious nods. Ms. Rain points to the letters ...

Precious shakes her head.

Ms. Rain points to the next word.

Ms. Rain points at the next word.

Ms. Rain points to the next word.

Precious nods.

Amazed the words that escaped were from her very own mouth,

Precious' jaw drops. She whirls to Ms. Rain.

Ms. Rain smiles.

We ease away from the office as the two of them continue

working down the page.

Precious enters the apartment. Mary sits on the couch

watching "THE COSBYS."

Precious suddenly looks exhausted.

Precious doesn't respond.

At a loss but still angered, Mary turns back to the

television slowly. Precious starts for her room until...

Precious stops, sighs, heads to the sink and starts washing

her hands.

Mary talks to Precious while watching television.

Precious dries her hands and reaches for a pan.

Precious stops everything with the pan in her hand.

Precious shakes her head, huffs and turns on the stove. Mary

then presses the mute button on the remote and whirls around

with a cold cigarette between her fingers.

Precious turns to her mother looking surprised but pensive.

Mary's eyes are still fixed on the TV.

A picturesque plate of pork chops and mashed potatoes.

Precious delivers it to the couch with a fork and knife.

THE APARTMENT HAS TRANSFORMED INTO THE PRISTINE WORLD OF THE

TV SITCOM THEY WERE WATCHING. Precious and Mary are well-

dressed and done-up like TV stars.

Precious sighs and joins Mary on the couch.

Mary hands Precious the plate and silverware.

Precious starts eating slowly. Mary lights her cigarette.

Precious eats reluctantly.

Pots and pans sit drying on the counter.

Precious wipes her hands on a dishcloth.

The room is quiet and empty now.

Precious stares blankly out of the window.

...She goes to the television, presses the remote and sits

down. "THE COSBYS" is still on. Tired and full, she turns the

TV off. She watches Mary's face snoring rhythmically but with

extremely unpleasant noises. Finally, she backs away and goes

to her bedroom.

Precious falls back across her bed with her arms spread.

She stares up at the crack in her ceiling...

A hand darts into frame, touches Precious' side and then

quickly withdraws. Precious ignores it. The hand returns for

another jab. Precious restrains a grin. Finally the hand

tickles her fiercely.

She giggles uncontrollably. The hand belongs to Tom Cruise.

He wears a leather jacket with a cherry red motorcycle helmet

tucked under one arm. The helmet has a golden bow stuck on

its crown.

...Precious chases him out of frame for some revenge tickling

as they both laugh quietly.

...The helmet falls to the floor with a bounce.

Precious sits on a small couch in a modest office containing

2 bookshelves, several plaques and 2 file cabinets.

MS. WEISS -40's, CAUCASIAN, CONSERVATIVELY DRESSED sits

across from Precious with a clipboard on her lap and glasses

low on her nose. A strap hangs down from the glasses and

snakes around the back of her neck.

Ms. Weiss' wariness looks unmoved.

Precious turns to Ms. Weiss. A DOORBELL RINGS ...

TOOSIE, A WOMAN IN HER LATE 50'S RADIATING A TOUGHNESS OF PRIOR

GENERATIONS, enters the apartment in a business-like manner with

MONGO, A SMALL, DISTRACTED AND OBVIOUSLY HANDICAPPED CHILD.

Toosie has a bag of groceries in her other arm.

Precious watches TV beside her mother. Both appear as if

they've just woken up. Mary attempts to put on her wig and

make up.

Toosie gives Mongo to Mary, whose eyes never leave the

television, and then hands the groceries to Precious, who

takes them directly to the kitchen as Toosie leaves without a

word.

The child seems only mildly aware of what is going on.

The DOORBELL rings again. Precious opens the door. A HISPANIC

WOMAN IN HER THIRTIES with an attache case enters.

As the woman steps inside, we see that Mary has finished

tidying herself.

Mary and the woman exchange small talk while Precious

listens. Mary has never seemed so congenial.

Precious continues speaking to Ms. Weiss from the couch.

Ms. Weiss looks up from her clipboard and over her glasses.

Precious reflects a moment and then looks up.

Precious snickers reminiscently a moment and then turns to

Ms. Weiss.

Ms. Weiss looks up and nods through a perplexed daze.

Precious rides lost in thought.

The girls burst into frame followed by Ms. Rain and Cornrows

and then bound up a large number of steps leading into THE

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART.

Led by a spirited guide and trailed by Ms. Rain and Cornrows,

the girls scrutinize colossal tombs, various artifacts,

hieroglyphics and photographs.

Precious and Rita fearfully enter the Tomb of Perneb. 2 steps

in, Rita grabs Precious hand tightly.

Rita and Jermaine study a sphinx.

Jo Ann poses like an Egyptian hieroglyphic. Consuelo examines

her nail polish.

Ms. Rain writes briskly across the blackboard.

As she makes her way across the frame, a barrage of letters

and numbers peel off the board, fly across the room, converge

and enter Precious' forehead.

Just before the letters and numbers reach Precious, lifelike

holographic images flank them. They are SPINNING PLANETS,

FLYING PTERODACTYLS, STAMPEDING ELEPHANTS, EMMETT TILL, MLK,

JFK, MALCOLM X, CIVIL RIGHTS MARCHERS, FIRE, TIDAL WAVES, A

VOLCANIC ERUPTION, CONTINENTS, MATHEMATICAL EQUATIONS, LIGHT

BULBS AND THE INVERTED WORDS "JANIE", "SULA" AND "CELIE" ...

A few letters, numbers and images try to reach Jo Ann but

most just bounce off of her and fall away. Consuelo bats a

few mathematical symbols off as if they were flies.

Finally we land on Precious as she confidently stabs her hand

into the air to answer a question.

Precious rides on one of the side seats towards the back

while wearing her red scarf.

The New Yorkers surrounding her are all men of various

backgrounds. All wear the exact same suits and raincoats.

Precious looks up to find two of the businessmen staring down

at her.

We pan from them and around the bus to find all of the other

passengers studying Precious in silence as well.

Our long circular pan finally lands on Precious' seat but

sitting there now is the pretty blond white girl from

Precious' bedroom mirror wearing Precious' clothes.

The bus grinds to a stop.

A man smiles at Precious and steps off the bus.

The original Precious takes the abandoned newspaper from his

empty seat and tries to read it.

Precious stops to watch two "society" ladies in hats and

gloves push antique buggy style baby carriages along the

sidewalk.

Precious continues observing pensively as the ladies pass a

bearded and bedraggled elderly white man laying on the street

in tattered clothes.

As Precious studies him, her expression changes ever so

slightly.

Enormous handwritten letters forming "NOT STUPID" overtake

her face as we DISSOLVE TO the PAGE upon which she wrote it.

Precious writes in her notebook. All of the other girls do

the same.

Precious looks up to find Jo Ann tapping her pencil, looking

around annoyed and literally at a loss for words.

We close in on Precious writing as we hear her whisper the

following.

ABCDEFGHIJKLPMN                   letters in all. Them letters

O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z.          make up words. Them words

Precious looks up from her page gazing in an otherworldly way.

One by one, the other girls stop what they're doing and stare

at Precious curiously.

Their eyes turn downward in unison.

CLOSE ON Precious' legs.

A gush of water pours down between them as if it were a tidal

wave.

SILENT MONTAGE

...The wheels of a speeding gurney waggle to remain straight.

...Fluorescent lights stream by overhead.

...Name tags dangle from the chests of attendants pushing the

gurney.

One we see belongs to a handsome African American Male nurse,

JOHN MCFADDEN. He is constantly looking down with a

reassuring smile.

...Covered in sweat, Precious screams without our hearing a

sound.

...Two rain drops dance atop a puddle outside .

...Water drips from a tree limb .

John exits.

The girls from class ogle him from another part of the room

as he leaves and then nudge and bicker with each other for

pole position to hold Abdul.

Behind the girls, Precious sits up in bed writing in her

journal.

Precious closes her book. Jo Ann backs away from the others,

takes the notebook and then leaves.

Rhonda returns Abdul to Precious. The remaining girls embrace

Precious one at a time and then file out of the room.

As the girls stream into the classroom, Jo Ann sets Precious'

notebook on Ms. Rain's desk.

Ms. Rain opens it immediately.

Ms. Rain writes at her desk.

Precious reads from her journal.

Precious immediately writes back.

Ms. Rain sits on the corner of bed reading Precious' journal.

Jo Ann bounds into the room with the journal in her hand,

swipes an apple from Precious' tray and takes a bite.

Precious snatches the journal and opens it quickly.

TOOSIE paces Precious' hospital room briskly while holding

Abdul and lecturing Precious fiercely.

Precious' grandmother continues her sermon. Precious sighs.

Ms. Rain sits at her desk reading with her pen ready.

Ms. Rain writes immediately.

Precious writes while breast-feeding Abdul.

The page turns.

The page falls. The students are all at their desks reading.

Ms. Rain writes the following.

Ruby can only watch as Precious disappears into the

stairwell.

Signs on the elevators read "OUT OF ORDER".

Precious climbs the stairs growing short of breath holding

Abdul, her bags and her coat folded over one arm.

Once on the landing, she searches for her keys while trying

to balance Abdul and everything else.

After turning several locks, she pushes into the apartment...

...looks up and ducks.

CRASH!!! A flying vase barely misses Precious and Abdul and

then shatters against the wall.

Abdul WAILS.

SMASH! A plant comes next.

Precious barely dodges that one too and she drops everything

but Abdul.

Mary charges into frame to ram Precious and Abdul like a

bull.

Precious sidesteps the charge as Mary leaves a huge

indentation in the wall knocking over a side table and a

potted plant in the process. She grabs her shoulder in pain.

Precious backs away around the living room to flee.

Mary hurls what's left of the plant at Precious from down on

the floor.

Precious turns her back to shield Abdul. The pot strikes her

in the back. ABDUL SCREAMS louder. Dirt covers Precious.

As Mary gets to her feet ...

Tears well in Precious' eyes.

Mary GROWLS and charges Precious again.

Precious turns the TV over between them. Electrical sparks

fly as it hits the floor. There is a banging at the door.

Mary trips and crashes down on top of the overturned

television.

Precious dashes out of the apartment with only Abdul as Mary

struggles to get up.

Precious dashes out of the apartment with tears in her eyes,

dirt on her clothes, no coat and Abdul SCREAMING IN HER ARMS.

A little OLD WOMAN stands in the hallway shaking her head in

disgust.

Precious looks back, trips on the landing and tumbles down a

flight of steps cradling and shielding Abdul all the way.

THUD! A hard floor abruptly halts Precious' descent.

She checks Abdul immediately.

He is smiling.

A DOOR OPENS followed by GRUNTS and a CRASH. Precious looks

up to find the broken television tumbling down the steps

towards them.

At the last second, Precious manages to roll them both out of

the way as the television crashes to the landing shattering

some more.

Precious bursts out of the stairwell with blood streaming

down her nose and Abdul in her arms. Ruby dashes to intercept

them.

Ruby places herself between Precious and the door while

moving. Precious however, is in a big hurry.

Precious shows no sign of slowing down. Ruby looks concerned.

Precious knocks Ruby out of her way and to the floor without

losing stride.

Ruby lands hard and CRIES loudly.

Abdul still in her arms, Precious heads away from the

building under dressed.

The falling snow has thickened considerably.

As she makes her way into the distance, Precious walks into

the snowstorm carrying Abdul.

She hears the sound of a choir. She approaches the Church

Basement where the voices are coming from.

Precious stares through the window where Choir members are

praising The Lord.

Mary barrels into Precious' bedroom yelling and screaming as

she turns the place upside down.

She rips down Precious' handprints along with her Cyndi

Lauper poster. She then picks up a brush and hurls it into

Precious' mirror, shattering it to pieces.

Precious, with Abdul in her arms, is singing along with the

Choir, happier than ever. Tom Cruise joins in clapping, the

stray dog that licked Precious in the beginning at his side.

Precious sits on the steps of a hospital. Snow still falling.

She looks confused.

Precious steps out of an elevator wet from the snow and still

splattered with dirt. She approaches a desk with urgency.

Precious sits on one of a row of chairs by the wall. She

tries to settle Abdul as he starts to CRY.

The skinny Nurse's legs approach and stop in front of

Precious.

Precious looks up to find A SOUR-LOOKING WOMAN glaring down

at her.

Precious pauses as if searching for a response to satisfy

this woman.

Precious looks away. The nurse doesn't leave.

The nurse finally starts away.

The nurse turns around.

DING! The elevator doors open.

John steps off between Precious and the nurse.

Precious starts to rise and John motions for her to stay

seated. He sits beside her.

John looks concerned.

Precious speaks with great resolve as if forcing herself to

believe her words.

John looks on heavy-hearted.

Precious   is dressed in a hospital gown and draped in a wool

blanket.   It is still snowing. John holds an umbrella over

Precious   and a bag in one hand as he escorts her out onto the

driveway   and into a large gray van.

John places the bag in the van, hugs Precious, closes the

door and then waves as the van pulls away.

Precious turns to watch him recede into the snow through the

back window.

Precious rides in darkness cradling Abdul. She looks up

frightened, taking in the others sitting around her. Shes

hold Abdul closer. The dark swallows her whole.

Bare light bulbs hang from the ceiling.

Precious lays on a bed breast feeding Abdul and staring up at

the ceiling while covered in a blanket.

We sail away to find they are surrounded by scores of

rudimentary beds, many of which are filled with other women

of varying ages.

A BUG LADY lies next to her with unkempt hair and sores on

her skin.

The skinny woman on the other side sits up and grabs herself

feverishly as if there were bugs allover her.

AN ENORMOUS AND FEROCIOUS-LOOKING WOMAN IN HER FORTIES steps

up, snatches the blanket off of Precious and Abdul and walks

off.

The woman walks away.

Physically and emotionally spent, Precious sighs and then

lifts her bed's top sheet, beneath which is a plastic-covered

mattress.

She then wraps the sheet around Abdul and herself and hunkers

down.

Precious rocks Abdul gently as her eyes wander around the

cavernous armory.

Precious kisses Abdul on the head.

Precious sleeps soundly.

Something nudges her slightly.

When she finally opens her eyes ...

Abdul is gone! So is her bag.

Precious springs up in a panic turning in every direction.

The Bug Lady casually points to the exit.

The large ferocious woman heads for the exit with Abdul in

one arm and Precious' bag in the other. She looks down at

Abdul making "baby" faces and sounds.

Precious dashes after her but winces in pain grabbing her

pelvic area along the way.

The Bug Lady follows Precious as a speed walker might.

Precious snatches Abdul and promptly knees the ferocious

woman hard in the gut.

The ferocious woman MOANS as she falls to the ground.

Precious continues kicking and stomping her without abandon.

The bug girl observes stoically. Abdul WAILS.

As she trounces the woman, Precious' eyes fill with a rage we

haven't yet seen.

Finally, two other women pull Precious away while she still

kicks at the woman.

The ferocious woman, now bloodied, falls over on her back

with her eyes closed and her mouth hanging open.

A bright morning skyline stretches over the Hotel Theresa.

