1 INT. NETHERFIELD - HERTFORDSHIRE - DAY. I

A vast mansion is coming to life. Maids pull dustsheets

off furniture; servants open shutters. Sunshine spills

into the great rooms of Netherfield. outside, a glimpse

of rolling parkland.

"It is a truth universally

acknowledged...

Its a whirlwind of activity. Servants bustle around,

sweeping and polishing, readying the house for its new

occupants. The shutters of a room are opened onto the

imposing gardens. A coach pulls up and, through the

window, we see a young man get out.

"that a single man in possession of a

good fortune, must be in want of a wife"

A white sheet is pulled from a spinet and obscures our

vision.

2 EXT. LONGBOURN HOUSE - DAY. 2

Elizabeth Bennet, 20, good humoured, attractive, clearly

nobody's fool, walks through a field of tall meadow

grass. She is reading a novel entitled 'First

Impressions'. She approaches Longbourn, a fairly run down

17th Century house with a small moat around it. Elizabeth

jumps up onto a wall and crosses the moat by walking a

wooden plank duck board, a reckless trick learnt in early

childhood. She walks passed the back of the house where,

through an open window to the library, we see her mother

and father, Mr and Mrs Bennet.

My dear Mr Bennet, have you heard that

Netherfield Park is let at last?

We follow Elizabeth into the house, but still overhear

her parents' conversation.

MRS BENNET (CONT'D)

Do you not want to know who has taken it?

As you wish to tell me, I doubt I have

any choice in the matter...

2.

3 INT. LONGBOURN - CONTINUOUS.

As Elizabeth walks through the hallway, we hear the sound

of piano scales plodding through the afternoon. She walks

down the entrance hall past the room where Mary, 18, the

bluestocking of the family, is practising, and finds

Kitty, 16, the second youngest, and Lydia, 15, the

precocious baby of the family, are listening at the door

to the library.

Have you heard? A Mr Bingley, a young man

from the North of England, has come down

on Monday in a chaise and four.

With five thousand a year!

Jane, (the eldest, most beautiful and most charmingly

naive of the girls), joins them at the door.

Goodness!

- and he's single to be sure!

INT. LIBRARY - LONGBOURN - CONTINUOUS.

Mr Bennet is trying to ignore Mrs Bennet.

What a fine thing for our girls!

Bow can it affect them?

My dear Mr Bennet, how can you be so

tiresome! You know that he must marry one

of them.

Oh, so that is his design in settling

here?

Mr Bennet takes a book from his table and walks out of

the library into the corridor where the girls are

gathered, Mrs Bennet following.

4 INT. CORRIDOR - LONGBOURN - THE SAME.

Mr Bennet walks through the girls to the drawing room

pursued by Mrs Bennet.

3.

- So you must go and visit him at once.

5 INT. DRAWING ROOM - LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 5

Mr Bennet walks to the bookshelf to replace the book he

is carrying. Mary is there practising the piano. The

girls come in to listen.

Oh, yes, Papa.

Please, Papa!

There is no need, for I already have.

The piano stops. A frozen silence. They all stare.

You have?

when?

a How can you tease me, Mr Bennet. You have

no compassion for my poor nerves?

You mistake me, my dear. I have a high

respect for them; they are my constant

companions these twenty years.

Is he amiable?

Is he handsome?

He's sure to be handsome.

With five thousand a year, it would not

matter if he had a big pink face.

I will give my hearty consent to his

marrying whichever of the girls he

chooses.

So will he come to the ball tomorrow?

4.

I believe so.

Lydia and Kitty shriek with excitement.

I have to have your spotted muslin,

please!

I need it!

- if you do, I'll lend you my green

slippers.

Mr Bennet winks at Elizabeth and turns to Mary, a

serious, somewhat pedantic young woman.

And what do you say, Mary? Are you not

excited by the prospect of a ball?

Society has claims on us all, Papa. As

long as I have my mornings to myself, I

consider an interval of recreation and

a amusement as quite desirable.

Elizabeth laughs.

6 INT. ASSEMBLY ROOMS -- MERYTON VILLAGE - NIGHT.

The local subscription dance is in full swing. It's a

rough-and-ready, though enthusiastic affair...yeoman

farmers, small-time squires with their ruddy-cheeked

daughters.

Lydia and Kitty, with their mother, are fussing over

their clothes - straightening their dresses, tidying

their hair and so on.

(fussing over her dress)

I literally can't breathe its so tight.

My toes hurt.

Elizabeth and Jane are a little apart from their family.

Jane looks breathtaking.

5.

a Well, if every man in this room does not

end the evening completely in love with

you then I am no judge of beauty.

Or men.

Oh, they are far too easy to judge.

They are not all bad.

Humourless poppycocks, in my limited

experience.

One of these days, Lizzie, someone will

catch your eye and then you'll have to

watch your tongue.

And eat my hat.

She stops speaking. And stares. A dazzling group enters

a prone to bumbling embarrassment when his enthusiasms get

the better of him, his sister Caroline, 23, a victim of

every latest fashion, counting herself superior to most

company she encounters, and finally, Mr Fitzwilliam

Darcy, 27, dashing, brooding with an introversion which

could be misconstrued as hauteur. They are dressed in the

highest fashion. Darcy surveys the hall. He catches

Elizabeth's eye. She stares, with a kind of surprised

shock. Jane notices and looks at Darcy. He turns away.

Luckily, you are not wearing a hat.

A hush falls as the local people turn to stare. The

newcomers - creatures from another world - make quite a

stir.

Caroline Bingley, standing next to Darcy, gazes at the

somewhat provincial gathering with distaste.

We are a long way from Grosvenor Square,

are we not, Mr Darcy?

He does indeed look superior to the assembled company. On

the dance floor a young couple, staring at the newcomers,

trip over each other, stumble and burst out laughing.

6.

Mr Bingley spots Jane Bennet. For a moment he forgets

himself and openly looks at her.

I find it very charming.

My brother is so easily pleased, is he

not?

Darcy does not answer.

Elizabeth has found her great friend Charlotte Lucas - an

intelligent, sensible woman in her late twenties. They

spy through the crowd.

So which of the painted peacocks is our

Mr Bingley?

He is on the right, and on the left is

his sister.

And the person with the disagreeable

expression?

That is his good friend, Mr Darcy.

Poor soul.

On the contrary, he has ten thousand a

year and owns half of Derbyshire.

Sir William Lucas, 53 a hale but unsophisticated member

of the self-made gentry, takes it upon himself to

introduce Mr Bingley and Mr Darcy to his daughter

Charlotte and the Bennet family.

(to Mr Bingley)

My eldest daughter you know, Mrs

Bennet ...miss Jane Bennet, Elizabeth and

Miss Mary Bennet.

It is a pleasure. I have two others but

they are already dancing.

7.

Delighted to make your acquaintance.

And may I introduce Mr Darcy.

-- of Pemberley, in Derbyshire!

A stiff bow from Darcy, Elizabeth smiles, Darcy does not.

Moments later. Elizabeth is standing in a small group

with Jane, Bingley, Miss Bingley and Darcy. Bingley can't

keep his eyes off Jane, but is frightfully at a loss in

disguising his instant ardour.

How do you like it here in Hertfordshire,

Mr Bingley?

(smiling at Jane shyly)

Very much.

The library at Netherfield, I've heard,

is one of the finest in the country.

Yes, it fills me with guilt.

He looks at Jane a little blush starts around his collar.

Not a good reader, you see. I like being

out of doors. I mean, I can read, of

His sister steps in. as the blush threatens to engulf his

ears.

Your library at Pemberly, Mr Darcy, is

astonishingly good.

Thank you. It is the work of many

generations.

And then you have added so much to it

yourself.

8.

I wish I read more, but there always

seems so many other things to do.

That's exactly what I meant.

He beams at Jane.

Mr and Mrs Bennet stand a little apart from Elizabeth and

the other young people. Lydia and Kitty bound up to them

in a state of high excitement.

Mama! The regiment is arriving next week!

And will be here for the whole winter!

Mrs Forster told us!

They're going to be stationed in the

village!

Mr Bingley'turns to Jane.

May I have the honour?

They leave, to dance.

Do you dance Mr Darcy?

Not if I can help it.

Elizabeth, Darcy and Miss Bingley stand in silence as

they over hear the following...

officers! Lots of officers!

How will we meet them?

It's easy. You just walk up and down in

front of them and drop something.

Lydia pantomimes the actions for Kitty.

9.

a They pick it up. You say 'oh thank you

sir' and blush prettily and then you're

introduced!

I have long suspected that we have two of

the silliest girls in the county.

Oh Mr Bennet! I remember the time when I

liked a red coat myself, and if a smart

young colonel with six thousand a year

should want one of my girls I shall not

say nay to him.

Mr Darcy overhears this. Profoundly embarrassed, Lizzie

moves away.

The dance floor. Mr Bingley is dancing with Jane. His

ears blushing with thrilled embarrassment. Mrs Bennet,

with a group of other mothers, watches the young couple

with rather too obvious satisfaction.

7 That dress becomes her, does it not. 7

a Though of course my Jane needs little

help from couturiers.

Elizabeth wanders through the throng. She looks at

Bingley and Jane ending the dance - she is coy and

demure, he clearly smitten -

Darcy is joined by Bingley exhilarated by the dance.

Come Darcy, I must have you dance. I hate

to see you standing by yourself in this

stupid manner.

(shakes his head)

You know how I detest it.

Upon my word, I've never seen so many

pretty girls in my life.

You are dancing with the only handsome

girl in the room.

10.

Oh, she is the most beautiful creature I

ever beheld, but her sister Elizabeth is

very agreeable.

They have stopped at the edge of the dance floor and have

not seen Elizabeth and charlotte who are standing close

behind them. Elizabeth smirks as she overhears their

conversation.

Perfectly tolerable, I dare say, but not

handsome enough to tempt me.

Elizabeth's smile drops.

You had better return to your partner and

enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting

your time with me.

Bingley goes off.

Elizabeth and Charlotte, who have overheard Darcy and

Bingley's exchange.

Ignore him, Lizzie, he is such a

disagreeable man it would be a misfortune

to be liked by him.

Don't worry. I would not dance with him

for half of Derbyshire.

Later. Bingley politely dancing with Charlotte. As he

does so, he catches sight of Jane dancing with somebody

else. A look of pure longing, but he cannot dance every

dance with her. Lizzie too is dancing and clocks this.

Lydia and Kitty are exuberantly dancing too, laughing and

chatting. Darcy stands watching, a look of infinitely

superior boredom on his fine features.

Bingley is standing with Jane, Elizabeth, Mrs Bennet and

Darcy.

Your friend Miss Lucas is a most amusing

young woman.

11.

a Yes! I adore her.

It is a pity she is not more handsome.

Mama!

But Lizzie will never admit she is plain.

Of course it's my Jane who's considered

the beauty of the county.

Oh, Mama, please!

When she was only fifteen there was a

gentleman so much in love with her that I

was sure he would make her an offer.

However, he did write her some very

pretty verses.

And so ended their affection. I wonder

a who first discovered the power of poetry

in driving away love?

I thought that poetry was the food of

love.

Of a fine, stout love it may. Everything

nourishes what is strong already. But if

it is only a thin, slight sort of

inclination, I'm convinced that one good

sonnet will starve it away entirely.

Darcy looks at Elizabeth with surprise. A glimmering of

interest.

So what do you recommend, to encourage

affection?

Oh dancing, of course. Even if ones

partner is barely tolerable.

She gives him a dazzling smile. Darcy looks startled. He

has no idea she heard him. He blushes.

12.

Elizabeth is dancing happily in a round, Jane and Bingley

a are also in the same dance. At the edge of the dance

floor Darcy is watching.

7 INT. BEDROOM -- LONGBOURN - NIGHT. 7

Elizabeth and Jane are both tucked up in the same bed,

but are too excited to sleep.

Mr Bingley is just what a young man ought

to be. Sensible, good humoured -

(completing the list)

Handsome, conveniently rich -

You know perfectly well I do not believe

marriage should be driven by thoughts of

money.

I agree entirely, only the deepest love

will persuade me into matrimony, which is

why I will end up an old maid.

Do you really believe he liked me,

Lizzie?

Jane, he danced with you most of the

night.

I was flattered, I must admit. I did not

expect such a compliment.

That is one great difference between us.

Compliments always take you by surprise.

Well, Mr Bingley is certainly very

amiable, and I give you leave to like

him. You've liked many a stupider person.

Lizzie!

You're a great deal too apt to like

people in general, you know. All the

world is good and agreeable in your eyes.

13.

Not his friend. I still cannot believe

what he said about you.

Mr Darcy? I could more easily forgive

his vanity had he not wounded mine. But

no matter. I doubt we shall ever speak

again.

She blows out the candle.

8 INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - LONGBOURN - DAY. 8

Mrs Bennet presides over breakfast with an endless

description of the ball. Mary is doing some needle work,

whilst Lydia, Kitty and Jane blearily eat.

And then he danced the third with Miss

Lucas. Poor thing, it is a shame she is

not more handsome. The fourth with a Miss

King of little standing. And the fifth

again with Jane.

a If he'd had any compassion for me he

would have sprained his ankle in the

first dance.

Oh, Mr Bennet! Anybody would think the

girls looked forward to a grand

inheritance.

Elizabeth rolls her eyes at Mr Bennet, they've heard this

speech many times before.

Kitty, be so kind as to pass the butter.

As you well know, Mr Bennet, when you

die, which may in fact be very soon, our

girls will be left without a roof over

their head nor a penny to their name.

Oh Mother, please! It's ten in the

morning.

Mrs Hill enters the room and interrupts Mrs Bennet's

a babbling.

14.

a A letter addressed to Miss Bennet, Ma'arn.

From Netherfield Hall.

Praise the Lord! We are saved.

Mrs Hill gives the letter to Jane.

MRS BENNET (CONT'D)

Make haste, Jane, make haste. 0 happy

day!

It is from Miss Bingley.

Mrs Bennet is stopped in her tracks.

She has invited me to dine with her.

Her brother will be dining out.

This is most unfortunate.

I didn't think he was so good looking

anyway.

Can I take the carriage?

Certainly not my dear, you will go to

Netherfield on horse back.

Horseback?!

Mrs Bennet leaves with a secret smile on her lips.

9 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY. 9

Jane rides through the countryside, A distant rumble of

thunder. She looks up...

10 EXT. FIELD - DAY. 10

An open book. Plop plop! Raindrops fall on it. Drawing

back, we see Lizzie walking through a field, reading. She

looks up to the sky...

15.

11 EXT. LONGBOURN - DAY. 11

Mrs Bennet stands at the kitchen door. A boy is

delivering meat. It starts to rain. She puts out her

hand, to check.

(smiles, satisfied)

Ah, good...

The housekeeper, Mrs Hill, who is with her, looks bemused

at her mistress's reaction.

12 EXT. GARDEN - DAY. 12

A louder rumble of thunder. A washerwoman hastily pulls

clothes from a line...it's bucketing down heavily now...

13 EXT. MERYTON VILLAGE - DAY. 13

In the local.village people run for cover; shopkeepers

cover up their wares...

a 14 EXT. LONGBOURN - DAY. 14

Mr and Mrs Bennet look out at the pouring rain.

Excellent. Now she will have to stay the

night. Exactly as I predicted.

Good grief, woman. Your skills in the art

of match-making are without question.

Though I don't think, mama, you can

reasonably take credit for making it

rain. Let's hope she hasn't caught her

death before she gets there.

15 INT. NETHERFIELD - DAY. 15

16 INT. DRAWING ROOM - LONGBOURN - DAY. 16

a Elizabeth reads a letter.

16.

a "And my kind friends will not hear of me

returning home until I am better -- but do

not be alarmed excepting a sore throat, a.

fever, and a headache there is nothing

wrong with me." This is ridiculous.

Well, my dear, if your daughter does die

it will be a comfort to know it was all

in pursuit of Mr Bingley.

People do not die of colds.

Though she might well perish with the

shame of having such a mother.

Mr Bennet laughs.

I am going to Netherfield at once.

Nonsense, the horse is with Jane. And the

girls took the carriage to town.

Then I will walk there. We should not

leave Jane alone in her condition.

Walk! You will not be fit to be seen by

the time you get there.

Why the devil not. We could have them all

laid up at Netherfield Hall.

I will be fit for Jane which is all I

care about.

17 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY. 17

Elizabeth strides across vast muddy fields, slipping as

she goes. Netherfield is in view on the horizon. She

stops to take it in, then carries on down an even more

muddy track.

18 INT. NETHERFIELD -- BREAKFAST ROOM - DAY.

In the large grand dining room Caroline Bingley and Darcy

are eating breakfast.

17.

Its very formal, in fact frigid, compared to the

volatile Bennet household. Darcy is reading the

a newspaper; Caroline Bingley is reading a letter.

(puts down the letter)

Apparently, Lady Bathurst is redecorating

her ballroom in the French style. A

little unpatriotic, don't you think?

Mr Darcy is about to answer when the door opens. A

footman appears, his face rigid with disapproval.

Miss Elizabeth Bennet.

Lizzie comes in, her face flushed, her skirt covered in

mud. She looks ravishing. Darcy stares at her, then

quickly rises to his feet. Caroline Bingley, astonished,

looks her up and down.

Good Lord, Miss Bennet. Have you walked

here?

I'm so sorry. How is my sister?

She's upstairs.

Show Miss Bennet the way, Alfred.

Lizzie leaves. A beat.

Goodness, did you see her petticoat? Six

inches deep in mud!

No response.

And her hair, so blowsy and untidy!

I think her concern for her sister does

her credit.

A little pause, Caroline recovers.

Oh yes, its shocking to have a bad cold.

I dislike excessively being ill myself.

18.

a 19 INT. NETHERFIELD LANDING - DAY. I

Elizabeth is taken upstairs. Bingley, looking tense,

waits outside her sister's room. His face lights up when

he sees her.

Miss Elizabeth! Oh I'm so glad to see you

A doctor comes out of Jane's room.

ELIZABETH AND BINGLEY

How is she?

A violent cold, but we shall get the

better of it.

20 INT. NETHERFIELD - JANE'S BEDROOM - DAY. 20

Elizabeth goes into the bedroom where Jane lies in bed,

feverish and ill.

Jane!

Jane's face lights up. Elizabeth kisses her.

Lizzie! Oh, your face is so cold. They're

being so kind to me, I feel such a

terrible imposition.

Don't worry. I don't know who is more

pleased at your being here, Mama or Mr

Bingley.

Bingley comes in having attended to the doctor.

Thank you for tending to my sister so

diligently, it seems she is in better

comfort here than she would be at home.

It is a pleasure, I mean not to see her

so sick, of course, that's terrible. I

will have a room made up for you. You

must be our guest here until Jane

recovers.

19.

21 INT. DRAWING ROOM - NETHERFIELD -- DAY. 21

Darcy is quietly reading as Bingley paces about

anxiously. Caroline berates him from the sofa.

Stay!? She is a perfectly sweet girl but

save being an excellent walker, there is

very little to recommend her.

I thought she showed remarkable spirit

coming all this way.

The eldest Miss Bennet, as you know, I

hold in excessive regard and I wish her

well settled. Though I do fear with her

families low connections there is little

chance of it. Their uncle is in trade,

you know, in Cheapside.

If they had uncles enough to fill all

Cheapside it would not make them one jot

less agreeable.

22 EXT. GARDEN -- LONGBOURN - DAY. 22

Mr Bennet is overseeing the gardener who is pruning the

hedge. Mrs Bennet bustles up. She looks very pleased with

herself.

Well, my dear, its all going according

to plan. He's half in love with her

already!

(a touch disingenuously)

Who, my sweetest?

Mr Bingley! And he doesn't mind that she

hasn't a penny, for he has enough for the

two of them.

Suddenly a distant trumpet sounds, dogs bark. The militia

are arriving. Lydia and Kitty rush past. They are dressed

up to the nines to greet the officers. Mrs Bennet's face

lights up.

a MRS BENNET

Wait for me!

20.

And she's gone. Mr Bennet gazes at their departing

a figures.

23 EXT. MERYTON VILLAGE - DAY. 23

Mrs Bennet and her two daughters rush down the street

into the village. Dogs bark, children run alongside as a

regiment of soldiers march through the street. Geese

scatter; shopkeepers stand in their doorways. The two

Bennet girls simper at the handsome young soldiers. Mrs

Bennet, flushed and excited, runs panting behind them.

Lydia deliberately drops her hankerchief. One of the

soldiers stands on it. She is appalled.

24 INT. DRAWING ROOM - NETHERFIELD - EVENING. 24

Elizabeth is reading a book. Darcy is writing a letter.

Bingley is sat nervously. Caroline, obviously bored,

wanders the room looking for distraction. She looks over

Darcy's shoulder.

You write uncommonly fast, Mr Darcy.

(without looking up)

a You are mistaken. I write rather slowly.

Caroline Bingley lingers, annoyingly.

How many letters you must have occasion

to write, Mr Darcy. Letters of business

too. How odious I should think them!

It is fortunate, then, that they fall to

my lot instead of yours.

Please tell your sister that I long to

see her.

I have already told her once, by your

desire.

Lizzie looks across from her book.

I do dote on her, I was quite in raptures

at her beautiful little design for a

table.

21.

Perhaps you will give me leave to defer

your raptures till I write again. At

present I have not enough room to do them

justice.

Mr Bingley now pacing anxiously around the room.

Its amazing, how young ladies have the

patience to be so accomplished.

What do you mean, Charles?

They all paint tables, and embroider

cushions and play the piano. I never

heard of a young lady, but people say she

is accomplished.

The word is indeed applied too liberally.

I cannot boast of knowing more than half

a dozen women, in all my acquaintance,

that are truely accomplished.

a CAROLINE BINGLEY

Nor I, to be sure!

Goodness! You must comprehend a great

deal in the idea.

I do.

Absolutely. She must have a thorough

knowledge of music, singing, drawing,

dancing and the modern languages, to

deserve the word. And something in her

air and manner of walking.

And of course she must improve her mind

by extensive reading.

Elizabeth closes her book.

i am no longer surprised at your knowing

only six accomplished women. I rather

wonder now at your knowing any.

Are you so severe on your own sex?

22.

a I never saw such a woman. She would

certainly be a fearsome thing to behold.

Pause. Darcy goes back to his letter. Caroline Bingley

picks up a book. Pauses. Puts it down. she walks over to

Miss Bennet, let us take a turn about the

room.

Lizzie, surprised, gets up. Caroline Bingley links her

arm and they start walking up and down.

CAROLINE BINGLEY (CONT'D)

It's refreshing, is it not, after sitting

so long in one attitude?

And it's a small kind of accomplishment,

I suppose.

Darcy meets Lizzie's eye, briefly. He goes back to his

letter-writing. More walking up and down. Caroline

Bingley turns to Darcy.

Mr Darcy, will you join us?

(shakes his head)

You can only have two motives, Miss

Bingley, and I would interfere with

either.

(to Lizzie, archly)

What can he mean?

Our surest way of disappointing him will

be to ask nothing about it.

Please tell us!

Either you are in each other's confidence

and have secret affairs to discuss, or

you are conscious that your figures

appear to the greatest advantage by

walking. If the first, I should get in

your way. If the second, I can admire you

a much better from here.

23.

a CAROLINE BINGLEY

Oh, shocking! How shall we punish him for

such a speech?

We could always tease him.

Oh no, Mr Darcy is not to be laughed at!

Are you too proud, Mr Darcy? And would

you consider that a fault?

That I couldn't say.

For we're trying to find a fault in you.

Maybe it's that I find it hard to forgive

the follies and vices of others, or their

offences against myself. My good opinion,

once lost, is lost forever.

a Oh dear, I cannot tease you about that.

What a shame, for I dearly love to laugh.

A family trait I think.

Elizabeth smiles, sweetly. Miss Bingley glances at Darcy.

25 TNT. BEDROOM -- NETHERFIELD - MORNING. 25

Elizabeth wakes up next to Jane.

26 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE -- DAY. 26

Darcy gallops through the countryside.

27 EXT. STABLE YARD - NETHERFIELD - DAY. 27

Darcy, exhausted, rides into the stable yard. In the

corner is a trough and pump. He strides up to the pump,

puts his head under it and douses himself with cold

water.

24.

a 28 INT/EXT. BEDROOM/STABLE YARD -- NETHERFIELD - THE SAME. 21

From a window Elizabeth looks out at Darcy.

Darcy looks up and for a second catches Elizabeth looking

down at him. She turns from the window. Jane is waking

up.

Jane, do you think you might feel well

enough to leave today?

29 INT. DRAWING ROOM - NETHERFIELD - DAY. 29

The doors open. The Butler as before:

A Mrs Bennet, a Miss Bennet, a Miss

Bennet and a Miss Bennet, sir.

Are we to receive every Bennet in the

country?

Mrs Bennet, Lydia, Mary and Kitty are introduced to

Caroline, Bingley and Darcy. Elizabeth holds her breath

as her mother launches into untold gaucheries.

What an excellent room you have sir. Such

expensive furnishings. I hope you intend

to stay here, Mr Bingley.

Absolutely I find the country very

diverting. Don't you agree, Darcy?

I find it perfectly adequate even if

society is a little less varied than in

town.

But I assure you there is quite as much

going on in the country as there is in

the town.

Indeed Mania, I think Mr Darcy merely

meant there were not such a variety of

people to be met in the country as there

are in town, which you must acknowledge

to be true.

25.

a MRS BENNET

Nonsense, we dine with four and twenty

families. Sir William Lucas for instance

is a very agreeable man. So very genteel

and easy.

Elizabeth cringes.

Mr Bingley, is it true that you have

promised to hold a ball here at

Netherfield?

Well...

It would be an excellent way to meet new

friends. You could invite the militia.

Oh do hold a ball.

(trying to stop Bingley being

Kitty...

When your sister has recovered you shall

name the day.

I think a Ball is a perfectly irrational

way to gain new acquaintance. It would be

better if conversation instead of dancing

were the order of the day.

Indeed much more rational but rather less

like a ball.

Thank you, Mary.

(to Mrs Bennet)

Please let me show you to Jane, you will

find her quite recovered.

26.

30 EXT. DRIVE -- NETHERFIELD - DAY.

The Bennet's carriage awaits. The Bingley's are gathered

to see the Bennet's off. Jane is radiant - in the peak of

health.

(to the Bingley's)

Really, I don't know how to thank you.

Bingley beams bashfully. He can't take his eyes off her.

Really, you're welcome anytime you feel

the least bit poorly.

Thank you for such stimulating company.

It has been most instructive.

Not at all. The pleasure is all mine.

Elizabeth looks at Darcy, who does not say anything. She

gets in the carriage.

Mr Darcy.

Miss Bennet.

They share a look as Elizabeth joins the rest of the

Bennets in the carriage. The driver takes off. Bingley

waves enthusiastically to Jane.

Goodbye. Goodbye.

31 INT. CARRIAGE - LEAVING NETHERFIELD - THE SAME. 31

The family are all squeezed in rather too tightly.

What a high and mighty man that Mr Darcy

is, quite eaten up with pride.

32 EXT. MERYTON - DAY. 3

The Bennet's carriage is stopped in its tracks by the

Militia who are marching en masse through town.

27.

a 33 INT. CARRIAGE - MERYTON - DAY. 33

Lydia cannot believe her eyes as row after row of

soldiers pass by the carriage with not a few of the men

looking in at the Bennet girls with some interest.

I can't believe it, there must be a

thousand of them.

Leading the one troupe of Militia is Wickham a very

handsome blonde officer, Lydia spots him and swoons.

(to the coachman)

Please, drive on.

34 INT. LONGBOURN - HERTFORDSHIRE - DAY. 34

As the Bennet girls come into the house, Lydia eulogizing

the Militia, they meet Mr Bennet.

I hope, my dear, that you have ordered a

good dinner today, because I have reason

to expect an addition to our family

party.

Mr Bennet holds up the letter.

35 INT. CARRIAGE - COMING THROUGH MERYTON - DAY. 35

Collins, late twenties, an overweening sychophant,

nervous and unctuous in equal measure. He sits in his

black garb, hunched uncomfortably as he comes through

town.

COLLINS (V.O.)

"Dear sir, the disagreement subsisting

between yourself and my late father over

the entail to me of the Longbourn estate,

has long been a subject of much torment

which I have frequently wished to heal.

Having received ordination this Easter

and being so fortunately distinguished by

the patronage of the Right Honorable Lady

Catherine de Bourgh..."

Collins' voice fades out as his carriage wipes through

frame revealing Elizabeth and Charlotte on their way to

the butchers.

28.

a His name is Mr Collins. He's the dreaded

cousin.

Who's to inherit?

Indeed. Everything, apparently. He may

leave us our stays, but even my piano

stool belongs to Mr Collins.

When?

He can turn us out of the house as soon

as he pleases.

But why?

Because the estate is entailed to him and

not to us poor females.

A cart passes, crammed with sheep going to slaughter.

36 INT. HALLWAY - LONGBOURN -- DAY. 36

Mr Collins is ushered in by the manservant, Perkins. He

looks around his future home with interest.

Mr and Mrs Bennet greet him.

Mr Collins, at your service.

What a charming house! So convenient for

the local village.

(looks at the furniture)

And some very fine pieces, if I'm not

mistaken.

A beat. This is hardly tactful.

They are.

Jane, Lizzie and Mary enter.

Ah, these are your daughters, are they

not?

29.

We have some more somewhere.

I must congratulate you. I have heard

much of their beauty, but in this

instance fame has fallen short of the

truth.

A very low bow. The girls are somewhat taken aback.

37 INT. DINING ROOM -- NETHERFIELD - EVENING. 37

The Bennets and Collins are seated formally for supper.

Mr Collins is served some food.

What a superbly featured room and what

excellent boiled potatoes. It is many

years since I had such an exemplary

vegetable. To which of my fair cousins

should I compliment the excellence of the

cooking?

Mr Collins, we are perfectly able to keep

a cook.

Excellent. I am very pleased the estate

affords such a living. I am honoured to

have, as my patroness, Lady Catherine de

Bourg, you have heard of her, I presume?

Mrs Bennet shakes her head.

My small rectory abuts her estate,

Rosings Park, and she often condescends

to drive by my humble abode in her little

phaeton and ponies.

A pause. Lizzie catches her father's eye.

Does she have any family?

One daughter, the heiress of Rosings and

very extensive property. I have often

observed to Lady Catherine, that her

daughter seemed born to be a duchess for

she has all the superior graces of

a elevated rank.

30.

MR COLLINS (cont'd)

.These are the kind of little delicate

compliments that are always acceptable to

1i121 ladies, and which I conceive myself

particularly bound to pay.

How happy for you, Mr Collins, to possess

the talent for flattering with delicacy.

Mr Collins nods with satisfaction.

Do these pleasing attentions proceed from

the impulse of the moment or are they the

result of previous study?

Jane kicks Elizabeth under the table. Elizabeth tries not

to laugh at Mr Collins' answer.

They arise chiefly from what is passing

at the time, and though I sometimes amuse

myself with arranging such little elegant

compliments, I always wish to give them

as unstudied an air as possible.

Believe me, no one would suspect your

manners to be practised.

The girls look at one another.

After dinner I thought I might read to

you all an hour or two. I have with me

Fordyce's sermons which speak eloquently

on this point.

Do you know Fordyce's sermons Miss

Bennet?

38 INT. CORRIDOR -- LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 38

Later; we can see the girls and Mr Bennet gathered by the

fire through the doorway. Mr Collins leaves the room and

takes Mrs Bennet aside to a very discrete conference, out

of hearing of anyone else.

Mrs Bennet. You do know I have been

bestowed by the good grace of Lady

Catherine de Bough a parsonage of no mean

size.

a MRS BENNET

I have become aware of the fact.

31.

a Well, it.is my avowed hope that soon I

may find a mistress for it, and I have to

inform you that the eldest Miss Bennet

has captured my special attention.

Collins looks lasciviously into the room.

Mr Collins, unfortunately it is incumbent

on me to hint that the eldest Miss Bennet

is - very soon to be engaged.

Engaged!

But Miss Elizabeth next to her in both

age and beauty would make anyone an

excellent partner. Do not you agree, Mr

Collins?

Mr Collins looks through the doorway at Elizabeth

Indeed. Indeed. A very agreeable

alternative.

39 EXT. BACK MEADOW - LONGBOURN - DAY. 39

Elizabeth and Jane are walking towards the house when,

across the moat, they see Mr Collins come out of the

house and advance towards them.

Oh no!

Mx Collins spots them and darts through a door in the

garden wall and hurries towards the bridge to meet them.

Quick! This way!

She pulls Jane across the duck board spanning the moat,

through the house and out the front.

Mr Collins doubles back and follows them into the house.

The girls are no-where to be seen. He looks around,

puzzled.

40 EXT. MERYTON VILLAGE - DAY. 40

a Elizabeth and Jane arrive in the village. Jane, forever

the dutiful daughter, looks uneasy- Elizabeth is flushed

and reckless. She looks behind them-

32.

We've lost him.

They slow down to a walk. And then stop. outside the

milliner's shop the incorrigible Lydia and Kitty are

chatting to Wickham, the dashing young officer we spotted

earlier. He is utterly gorgeous - slim, handsome, tousled

hair. The perfect romantic hero.

Kitty? Lydia!

She and Jane join them.

We just happened to be looking for some

ribbon, didn't we, Kitty?

And we met Mr Wickham.

He picked up Lydia's gloves!

He's a lieutenant!

Wickham bows.

I'm enchanted. Shall we all look at some

ribbons together?

Oh yes!

41 INT. MILLINER'S SHOP - DAY. 41

They come into the shop. The others go towards the

counter. Wickham hangs back, and smiles a complicit,

witty smile at Elizabeth. She colours.

Though I must warn you, I have very poor

taste.

Only a man truly confident of himself

would admit that.

No, it's true. My rooms in town,

decorated, I thought, in the height of

a fashion, have reduced grown men to tears

of mirth.

33.

Then why don't you change them?

And deny people such pleasure?

So you don't mind being laughed at?

Not particularly.

It is a somewhat sterile quality, is it

not, to be aware of ones importance in

the world.

Especially if, like me, one has none.

Elizabeth looks at him with interest. A beat. The moment

is broken by Lydia coming up.

Lizzie, please lend me some money!

You already owe me a considerable sum,

Liddy.

Allow me to oblige.

No! Please - Mr Wickham! -

Wickham gives Elizabeth a smile and moves away to the

counter.

42 EXT. MILLINER'S SHOP - DAY. 42

The girls emerge from the shop with Wickham.

You're too generous.

I know. Fivepence halfpenny!

It all adds up.

I'll pay him back.

34.

Oh yes. I'll make sure of that.

They laugh. Elizabeth is really rather taken with him.

They walk down the street.

Will you be stationed here all winter, Mr

Wickham?

That depends on what the French have in

mind. Of course I look forward to

action...

(smiles at her)

But on the other hand

Lizzie - look!

They stop. Jane's face lights up.

Mr Bingley !

It is indeed Bingley, riding towards them. He is

accompanied by Darcy.

a Bingley jumps off his horse and hurries over to Jane. His

open, friendly face is filled with delight.

I was on my way to your house.

Please Mr Bingley, when are you going to

give a ball?

Lydia!

I was just waiting until your sister was

quite well.-

She is!

Elizabeth pays no attention to the following

conversation, instead she is looking at Darcy who, in

turn, is staring at Wickham. They both obviously

recognize each other and look very uncomfortable.

- when, then?

35.

As soon as they have made the white soup.

Be sure to invite Mr Wickham.

Darcy turns and rides off without a word.

Lydia, you can't just say that -

Will you excuse me ladies? Mr Wickham.

Enjoy the day.

Elizabeth looks at Wickham, puzzled.

43 INT. DRAWING ROOM - THE LUCAS' HOUSE - DAY. 43

A small cards party is underway. Three tables have been

set up. Elizabeth, Wickham, Jane, Lydia, Kitty, Charlotte

and Sir William and Lady Lucas are present. A small

number of officers and other ladies are also present. We

move around the tables. Kitty is sat with Sir William and

Charlotte and Mary. Jane sits at a table with Mr Collins

and Lady Lucas. Lizzie sits with Lydia and two other

officers. Lydia flirts outrageously.

LYDIA.

We have asked mama if we might have new

dresses for the Netherfield ball.

Yes, white, they must be white.

White is the only colour to be worn this

season.

So I believe.

Mr Collins is at a table with Lady Lucas, he glances over

at Elizabeth, as he talks.

- of course, when you understand that

Lady Catherine de Bourgh is its

proprietor you will realise what an

immense compliment that is. Lady

Catherine spent eight hundred pounds on a

chimney-piece alone.

a Wickham who has been talking to some of the other

officers comes and sits beside Elizabeth, passing by Mr

collins on the way.

36.

(aside to Elizabeth)

Your cousin is blessed with an uncommon

capacity for charm.

Elizabeth laughs and plays a hand.

Will you be attending the Netherfield

ball, Mr Wickham?

I hope to.

How long has Mr Darcy been a guest a

Netherfield?

Elizabeth pounces on this reference to Mr Darcy and takes

her chance.

About a month. Are you acquainted with,

Mr Darcy?

Indeed, my fate has been very intimate

with that gentleman. I have been

connected with his family since infancy.

Elizabeth is genuinely surprised, there is a pause while

she is forced to play her hand.

You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet,

especially given the cold manner of our

intimacy this afternoon. Are you well

acquainted with that gentleman?

As much as I could ever wish to be. I

have spent four days in the same house as

him, and I think him very disagreeable.

I cannot pretend to be sorry.

Elizabeth blushes.

But really I speak out of turn.

Collins voice breaks the moment.

Miss Elizabeth, I was just saying to Sir

William what appalling weather we've been

having.

37.

Elizabeth cannot believe her misfortune in Mr Collins,

a but she smiles politely.

I think I shall take a little air.

She rises and walks through the room towards a balcony.

As she passes the other tables we follow and witness

snippets of their conversations.

It seems Mr Wickham has met with

universal approval. Though Lizzie looks

singularly pleased with him.

At the moment she has more suitors than

sense.

Charlotte looks over at Mr Collins. Elizabeth passes Sir

William's side of the table.

Now any one for a round of bridge?

Elizabeth?

Really I need to take some air.

Mr Collins makes his way to join Elizabeth.

Mr Collins?

Oh, I am not so familiar with the game,

Sir William.

Absolute nonsense. I insist that you join

us.

Please, Mr Collins, I'd be happy if you'd

Collins resigns himself to his fate. Elizabeth smiles and

slips out into the night air.

44 EXT. BALCONY - THE LUCASES HOUSE - MERYTON - NIGHT. 44

Elizabeth breathes in the cold night air. She senses

someone join her. She looks round to see Wickham has

followed her as she had hoped.

38.

a I hope your plans in favor of Meryton

will not be affected by your difficult

relations with the gentleman we were just

speaking of.

Oh no - it is not for me to be driven

away. If he wishes to avoid seeing me, he

must go not I.

Pause.

I must ask you Mr Wickham, what is the

manner of your disapproval of Mr Darcy?

Do you really want to hear?

Lizzie nods.

He ruined me.

She stares at him.

How so?

My father managed his estate. We grew up

together, Darcy and I. His father treated

me like a second son. Oh he was the

kindest of men and bequeathed me the best

living in his gift, for I had my heart

set on joining the church. But when he

died Darcy ignored his wishes and gave

the living to another man.

Why did he do that?

Out of jealousy, for his father loved me

more than he loved him.

How cruel! Are you sure?

And out of pride, for he considered me

too lowly to be worth his consideration.

Pause. Lizzie gazes at him with horror and sympathy.

39.

a 45 INT. BEDROOMS - LONGBOURNE - THE SAME. 45

We pan through the bedrooms as the Bennet girls prepare

for the Netherfield ball. Kitty is helping Lydia into her

dress, they are both wearing white.

Aggghh!

Breathe in!

We move to the quieter preparations of Jane and

Elizabeth. This conversation has been going on for some

time.

- I still think there must have been a

misunderstanding.

Oh Jane, do you never think ill of

anybody?

0 How could Mr Darcy do such a thing? I

will discover the truth from Mr Bingley

at the ball this evening.

If it is not true let Mr Darcy contradict

it himself. But until he does, I hope

never to encounter him.

Poor, unfortunate Mr Wickham.

On the contrary, he is twice the man

Darcy is.

And lets hope for you a rather more

willing dancer.

Jane leaves Elizabeth, at the mirror, taking very

particular care of her makeup. she smil6s to herself.

46 INT. NETHERFIELD - HERTFORDSHIRE - NIGHT. 46

a The great doors of Netherfield open to reveal the ball in

full swing. Compared to the somewhat clod-hopping

Assembly, its a dazzling affair.

40.

There are hundreds of guests. All the women, roughly two

hundred, are dressed in white. The men are either in red

a officer uniform or dressed in black and white. There are

a number of rooms each occupied by a different activity,

cards, buffet, women's closet. The final and grandest

room is the ball room, a swirl of elegant dance.

The Bennet's enter the first reception room, the girls,

including Mrs Bennet, are all dressed in white. Mr

Collins is slightly detained as people pass. Mr Bingley

bounds up to Jane.

You're here! I'm so pleased.

And so am I.

How are you, Miss Elizabeth?

Elizabeth is not paying attention, instead she is

searching over Mr Bingleys' shoulder for a sight of

Wickham.

Are you, looking for someone?

a No, no not at all. Admiring the splendor

of the ball.

It is lovely, Mr Bingley.

Bingley and Jane move off leaving Elizabeth with Mrs

Bennet and others. While Mrs Bennet talks we focus on

Elizabeth searching the sea of red coats.

(refering to Jane and

I dare say I have never met a more

pleasant gentleman in all my years. Look

how he dotes on her! Still Jane has

always done what is best for her family.

Elizabeth takes this opportunity to slip away into the

next room. Elizabeth looks around but cannot see Mr

Wickham. Suddenly she thinks she sees him, so starts to

a him then she is suddenly surprised by Charlotte Lucas.

41.

Have you seen Mr Wickham.

She shakes her head.

Perhaps he is in the ballroom.

They both walk into the ball room. We pull back to reveal

a sea of dancers. Wickham is nowhere to be seen. Jane

appears and catches Elizabeths arm.

He's not here. Apparently otherwise

detained.

The disappointment is palpable on Elizabeth's face.

Detained?

Mr Collins arrives, breathless. He smiles eagerly at

Elizabeth.

There you are.

Mr Collins. What a pleasant surprise.

Perhaps you will do me the honour, Miss

Elizabeth?

Oh. I didn't think you danced, Mr

Collins.

I do not consider it incompatible with

the office of a clergyman to indulge in

such an innocent diversion.

Elizabeth tries to smile, politely.

a They dance, the style of which is not unlike English

Country dancing.

42.

a To be sure, dancing is of little

consequence to me, but it does afford the

opportunity to lavish'ones partner with

delicate attentions which is my primary

object of the evening.

Elizabeth turns as part of the dance and for a moment she

dances beside Jane.

Apparently Your Mr Wickham has been

called on some business to town, though

my informer told me he would have been

less inclined to be engaged had it not

been for the presence at Netherfield of a

certain gentleman.

Jane indicates towards where Darcy stands watching them.

That gentleman barely warrants the name.

The dance leads Elizabeth back to Mr Collins.

COLLINS (CONT`D)

It is my intention, if I may be so bold

to remain close to you throughout the

evening.

Couples are preparing for the next dance. Elizabeth and

Charlotte are standing to one side when Mr Darcy

approaches.

May I have the next dance, Miss

Elizabeth.

Elizabeth is stunned.

You may.

Darcy walks away.

What was I thinking? Have I no presence

of mind?l

I dare say you will find him very

agreeable, Lizzie.

43.

Heaven forbid! That would be the greatest

misfortune of all - to find a man

agreeable whom one is determined to hate!

Elizabeth dances face to face with Darcy. Neither can

speak. They dance for a moment in silence.

I do love a Sarabande.

Indeed. Most invigorating.

They continue, for a moment, in silence.

It is your turn to say something, Mr

Darcy - I talked about the dance, now you

ought to remark on the size of the room

or the number of couples.

I am perfectly happy to oblige, please

advise me of what you would like most to

a hear.

That reply will do for the present.

Perhaps by and bye I may observe that

private balls are much pleasanter than

public ones. But for now we may be

silent.

Do you talk as a rule while dancing?

We are each of an unsocial, taciturn

disposition, unwilling to speak, unless

we expect to say something that will -

amaze the whole room, and be handed down

to posterity with all the eclat of a

proverb. So a little lubrication to avoid

embarrassment might be advantageous.

I see no striking resemblance of your own

character in this, how near it is to mine

I cannot say. (beat) Tell me do you and

your sisters very often walk to Meryton?

They are suddenly parted by the choreography of the

dance.

44.

We stay with Elizabeth who is whisked round the floor by

an elderly man who smiles at her toothlessly, Elizabeth

a looks back at Darcy who is dancing with Lydia. He stare

at Elizabeth as he dances. Elizabeth smiles at her

current partner in embarrassment.

Very mild weather we've been having.

(deaf as a post)

Sorry.

The dance spins again and she is back with Darcy.

Yes, we often walk to Meryton - it is a

great opportunity to meet new people. In

fact when you met us we had just had the

pleasure of forming a new acquaintance.

I will admit your Mr Wickham is blessed

with such happy manners as may ensure his

making friends - whether he is capable of

retaining them is less certain.

He has been so unlucky as to lose your

friendship. I remember hearing you once

say that your resentment once created was

unappeasable. You are very cautious, I

suppose, as to its being created?

I am. May I ask to what these questions

tend.

To make out your character, Mr Darcy.

And what have you discovered?

very little.

The dancefinishes.

I hear such different accounts of you as

puzzle me exceedingly.

I hope to afford you more clarity in the

a future.

45.

a They bow to each other and Elizabeth moves quickly away

from Darcy.

Elizabeth is at the buffet watching Kitty quaff a huge

glass of wine and having the glass immediately refilled.

She is joined by Caroline Bingley who also looks at Kitty

disapprovingly.

Miss Elizabeth. Let me recommend you as a

friend not to give too much confidence to

all of the assertions your friend Mr

Wickham might make. He is indeed a

charming man, but one should never forget

from where he is descended.

His lack of trustworthiness and descent

appear by your account to be the same

thing,

Please excuse my interterence, it was

kindly meant.

a A breathless Mr Collins appears.

Is that Mr Darcy, of Pemberley in

Derbyshire?

I believe so.

But I must make myself known to him

immediately!

But sir -

He is the nephew of my esteemed

patroness, Lady Catherine.

He is?

Mr Collins starts making his way determinedly towards

Darcy.

Please, Mr Collins! He'll consider it an

46.

Elizabeth watches from a distance, with acute

embarrassment, as Collins interrupts Darcy. Darcy does

not notice him so Collins raises his voice.

Mr Darcy!

The room around him stops. Darcy is surprised and turns

round. In dumbshow we see Darcy is horrified by Collins'

obsequiousness, during the conversation Collins points

Elizabeth out to Darcy.

What interesting relatives you have, Miss

Bennet.

Elizabeth walks away into another room.

The other room, where Mary is singing badly at the piano.

Elizabeth is horrified. She turns to leave only to see Mr

Bennet looking on. He winces as Mary misses a high note.

Mary finishes the song with an off key flourish. Polite

applause. Mary smiles and prepares for another song.

Aren't you going to do something?

Mr Bennet walks over to the piano.

Mary dear, you've delighted us long

enough.

But they asked for another song.

Mr Bennet shuts the lid.

Let the other young ladies have a turn.

Later. Charlotte and Lizzie are sat together.

Perhaps my family have made a competition

to see who can expose themselves to the

most ridicule.

Well, at least Bingley has not noticed.

They look over and see Jane and Bingley dancing. Bingley

clearly besotted by Jane.

47.

a Yes. I think he likes her very much.

But does she like him? There are few of

us who are secure enough to be really in

love without proper encouragement.

Bingley likes her enormously but might

not do more if she does not help him on.

She is just shy and modest. If he does

not perceive her regard he is a fool.

We are all fools in love. He does not

know her character as we do. She should

move fast. Snap him up. There is plenty

of time for us to get to know them after

we're married -

Elizabeth looks over the dancefloor to see Lydia dancing

with a soldier. she's a little drunk, and very

flirtatious. He says something; she shrieks with

laughter.

47 MONTAGE OF THE BALL 47

Elizabeth sits at the side of the dance-floor. She looks

at Mrs Bennet dancing in outrageous fashion. Cut to

later: Lydia is getting more and more leery with a group

of soldiers, Elizabeth walks away in embarrasment only to

see Mr Collins smiling at her from across the room. Cut

to: Elizabeth dancing joylessly with the excruciating Mr

Collins, as she turns in the dance she sees Darcy look on

with obvious disdain. Cut to: much later, the band are

exhausted, guests are leaving. The staff are asleep on

their feet. Elizabeth almost alone watching her parents

dancing almost the only people left on the dance floor,

Kitty is asleep over Elizabeth's lap. This is a never-

ending nightmare.

48 INT. ENTRANCE HALL-- NETHERFIELD - THE WEE HOURS 48

Day light creeps through the curtains. Mrs Bennet is

sprawled on a sofa. Lydia completely drunk. Kitty asleep.

Jane sitting demurely. Collins looking longingly at

Elizabeth. Mrs Bennet is holding court, whilst the

footmen behind are literally ready to drop. Bingley is

standing, the perfect host, but obviously willing the

a Bennets to leave.

48.

I have never had such a good time in my

life. Mr Bingley you must have such a

ball once a month at least.

Caroline who is standing with her brother, yawns

ostentatiously.

Mother. I really think it is time to go.

Don't be impertinent. our hosts are

perfectly happy with our company, are you

not, Mr Bingley? I hope I can entice you

to Longbourn to sample our hospitality.

We would make sure you had 3 or 4 courses

at least.

She holds out her glass for a top up and carries on.

MRS BENNET (CONT'D)

So tell me Mr Bingley. Whom did you like

least of all your guests this evening?

Really. This is enough.

Darcy looking down at Elizabeth from a staircase. He

turns and walks away.

49 INT. CARRIAGE - HERTFORDSHIRE - MORNING. 49

The Bennet's are squeezed into their carriage. It is

light outside. Only Mrs Bennet is awake but the lack of

an audience does not stop her from talking.

Allowing for new carriages, dresses

etcetera, etcetera. We will be having a

wedding here at Netherfield in less than

three months, if you ask me. Mr Bennet?

Mr Bennet!

5o INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - LONGBOURNE - DAY. 50

The Bennets eat in silence. Jane.yawns. Mrs Bennet moans -

she is hungover. Mr Collins comes in in a state of

agitation. They look at him. He sits, hesitates, then

49.

is MR COLLINS

Mrs Bennet I was hoping, if it would

not trouble you, that I might solicit a

private audience with Miss Elizabeth in

the course of the morning.

Elizabeth is open mouthed.

Oh! Yes. Certainly - Lizzy would be very

happy indeed. Please -- go ahead. No time

like the present. Everyone. Out. Mr

Collins would like a private audience

with your sister.

Everyone looks in amazement.

Wait. I beg you. Mr Collins can have

nothing to say to me.that anybody need

not hear.

No. Nonsense, Lizzy. I desire you-will

stay where you are. Everyone else, to the

drawing room. Mr Bennet.

a MR BENNET

Mrs Bennet makes sure everyone leaves, winks at Mr

Collins then shuts the door before Elizabeth has time to

do anything. Elizabeth looks at Mr Collins who looks at

her in earnest. There is a horrible pause of intense

embarrassment.

Dear Miss Elizabeth, you can hardly doubt

the purpose of my discourse. My

attentions have been too marked to be

mistaken. Almost as soon as I entered the

house I singled you out as the companion

of my future life.

Elizabeth stares at him, astonished.

But before I am run away with my feelings

perhaps I may state my reasons for

marrying. Firstly, that it is the duty of

a clergyman to set the example of

matrimony in his parish.

S0.

MR COLLINS (cont'd)

Secondly, that I am convinced it will add

greatly to my happiness, and, thirdly,

a that it is at the urging of my esteemed

patroness Lady Catherine that I select a

wife.

We here a kick and Kitty screach from behind the door.

MRS BENNET (V.0.)

sshhh.

My object in coming to Longbourn was to

choose such a one from amongst Mr

Bennet's daughters, for as you know I am

next in the entail of the estate and such

an alliance will surely make amends for

this.

(drops to his knee)

And now nothing remains for me but to

assure you in the most animated language

of the violence of my affections.

Mr Collins -

And that no reproach on the subject of

fortune will cross my lips once we are

a married.

You are too hasty, sir! You forget that I

have made no answer.

I must add, that Lady Catherine will

thoroughly approve, when I speak to her

of your modesty, economy and other

amiable qualities.

Sir, I am honoured by your proposal, but

regret I must decline it.

(momentarily taken aback, but

I know ladies have their pretty little

ways, and don't seek to seem too eager -

(in some desperation)

Mr Collins, I am perfectly serious. You

could not make me happy and I'm convinced

I'm the last woman in the world who could

make you happy.

51.

a MR COLLINS

I 'flatter myself, cousin, that your

refusal is merely a natural delicacy.

Besides, you should take into account

that despite your manifold attractions it

is by no means certain that another offer

of marriage may ever be made to you -

(rising, deeply affronted)

Mr Collins -

So I must conclude that you simply seek

to increase my love by suspense,

according to the usual practice of

elegant females.

Sir! I am not the sort of female to

torment a respectable man. Please

understand me - I cannot accept you!

Elizabeth storms out of the room and out of the house.

Mrs Bennet crashes in through another door, hot on the

tail of Elizabeth.

Declined indeed! The headstrong, foolish

Thank you, but... Head strong?

- we shall have this little hiccup dealt

with immediately, Mr Collins.

Mrs Bennet goes chases after Elizabeth. Mr Collins

watches through a window as Elizabeth is chased by her

mother.

51 INT. LIBRARY - LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 51

Mrs Bennet marches into the library. Mr Bennet looks up

in shock.

Oh Mr Bennet. We are all in a uproar. You

must come and make Lizzy marry Mr

Collins, for she vows she will not have

him.

Mr Bennet starter at Mrs Bennet blankley.

52.

Mr Collins, Mr Collins has proposed to

Lizzie. But Lizzy declares she will not

have him, and now the danger is Mr

Collins may not have Lizzy.

And what am I to do?

Mrs Bennet drags Mr Bennet to his feet.

Speak to Lizzy.

They march to find Elizabeth.

52 INT. HALLWAY - LONGBOURN -- THE SAME. 52

Mr Bennet and Mrs Bennet confront Elizabeth, who has been

waiting in the hallway. Perhaps the other girls form an

audience from the stairs, Mr Collins looks on sheepishly

from the breakfast room.

Tell her that you insist upon them

marrying.

Papa, please - '.

You will have this house!

I can't marry him!

You'll save your sisters from

destitution!

I can't! -

Go back now and say you've changed your

mind!

No!

Think of your family!

You can't make me!

53.

Mr Bennet, say something!

So, your mother insists on you marrying

Mr Collins.-

Yes, or I shall never see her again?

Well, Lizzie. From this day on you must

be a stranger to one of your parents -

- who will maintain you when your father

is dead?

Your mother will never see you again if

you do not marry Mr Collins, and I will

never see you again if you do.

Thank you, papa.

Elizabeth turns around and walks into the drawing room.

53 INT. DRAWING ROOM - LONGBOURN - THE SAME 53

Elizabeth enters the drawing room. In the drawing room,

Mary is trying to read, through the family din. Jane sits

very still. Her face is white. There's a letter in her

hand. Mrs Bennet charges in, Lydia and Kitty in tow, and

speaks to anyone who will listen.

Oh, ungrateful child! I shall never speak

to her again! Not that I have much

pleasure in talking to anybody. People

who suffer as I do from nervous

complaints can have no inclination for

talking. Nobody can tell what I suffer...

She jabbers on but her voice fades. We're with Jane, re-

reading the letter.

What's wrong, Jane?

Close on Jane's pale face. She's staring at the letter.

54.

But it is always so. Those who complain

are never pitied...

54 EXT. NETHERFIELD - DAY. 54

Bingley, Caroline and Darcy sit grimly in a carriage

which drives off.

55 INT. CARRIAGE -- LEAVING NETHERFIELD - THE SAME. 55

Darcy looks severe and stern, Caroline can't help a

little smirk on her face. Bingley looks back longingly.

56 INT. BEDROOM -- LONGBOURNE - NIGHT. 56

Elizabeth and Jane in bed.

I don't understand. What would take him

from Netherfield? Why would he not know

when he was to return?

a I have no reserves from you.

Jane passes Elizabeth the letter.

"Mr Darcy is impatient to see his sister

and we are scarcely less eager to meet

her again. I really do not think Georgina

Darcy has her equal for beauty, elegance

and accomplishments, so much so I must

hope to hereafter call her my sister. It

is my duty to indulge you in no hope in

this respect for your own self."

Is that not clear enough?

Miss Bingley sees that her brother is in

love with you and is gone with him to

persuade him otherwise.

But I know her to be incapable of

wilfully deceiving anyone.

a He loves you, Jane. Do not give up. Go to

our aunt and uncle's in London.

55.

Let it be known you are there and I am

sure he will come to you.

57 EXT. LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 57

Jane is in a carriage. Mrs Bennet kisses her goodbye

through the window as all the Bennets look on.

Give my love to my sister. And try not to

be so much of a burden, dear.

Jane's carriage moves away and the family wave. Mr Bennet

talks to Elizabeth.

Poor Jane. However, a girl likes to be

crossed in love now and then. It gives

her something to think of, and a sort of

distinction among her companions.

I'm sure that will cheer her up,Papa.

It's your turn now, Lizzie. Since you've

turned down Mr Collins you're free to go

off and be jilted yourself. What about Mr

Wickham? He is a pleasant fellow and

would do the job credibly.

Thank you, but a less agreeable man would

satisfy me. We must not all expect Jane's

good fortune.

Still, it's a comfort to know that

whatever might befall you, you have an

affectionate mother who will be sure to

make the most of it.

A small smile from Elizabeth.

58 INT. BEDROOM - LONGBOURN - DAY 58

Elizabeth is making the bed and tidying Jane's

belongings. There is a knock at the door and Charlotte

enters.

My dear Elizabeth, I've come here to tell

you the news.

56.

a What news?

Mr Collins and I are engaged to be

married.

A stunned pause.

Engaged?

You don't mind, do you?

No, no...

(tries to recover)

Of course not.

He asked for my hand this morning .and

I accepted him.

Elizabeth looks quite faint. Charlotte sits on the bed.

Elizabeth, after a pause, sits down beside her.

I can see you're surprised - coming so

soon after his wishing to marry you...

No...

I'm not a romantic, you know. I ask only

a comfortable home, and considering Mr

Collin's character, and situation in

life, I am convinced that my chance of

happiness with him is as fair as most

people can hope for.

And that's all you expect?

For women in our situation, what choice

is there?

Don't speak like that, Charlotte!

57.

a - to become an old maid, at best

tolerated, at worst a burden, dependent

on the kindness of others? Or to seek the

protection of marriage.

And we only have two choices?

Yes.

An appalled silence. Elizabeth gazes at her closest

friend. Charlotte has recovered herself. she now looks

cool and composed - unnervingly so.

You can still change your mind,

Charlotte.

(shakes her head)

I'm twenty-seven years old.

We hear the sound of the militia drums...

59 EXT. MERYTON - DAY. 59

The militia are leaving Meryton. Hundreds of soldiers and

officers in the red coats marching out of the village to

the sound of pipes and drums. The villagers are out to

bid them farewell. Lydia and Kitty run through the crowds

very distraught. They find Elizabeth coming in the other

direction.

It's too dreadful! They're leaving for

Brighton.

All of them?

They got the call this morning.

Not a word of warning!

Lydia wails. Elizabeth searches the red coats for

Wickham. She spots him, he glances across at her, she

gives a pathetic wave and he's gone. Lydia and Kitty

chase the last of the officers, leaving Elizabeth alone.

She walks into the post office.

58.

C 60 INT. VILLAGE POST OFFICE - THE SAME. 6

The Postmaster hands a letter to Elizabeth. Elizabeth

opens it and reads it.

Bad news, Miss?

It could not be worse. I have been

invited to possibly the very last place

on earth I would like to go.

61 EXT. MERYTON - DAY. 61

Elizabeth comes out of the post office to reveal...

Time has passed, the now deserted village is covered in a

thick blanket of snow. A lonely Elizabeth walks away

totally despondent.

62 EXT. HUNSFORD PARSONAGE - KENT - DAY. 6

Charlotte's new home is a smallish but charming rectory

in Kent. Charlotte greets Elizabeth, kissing her warmly.

a Mr Collins bows as he ushers her in.

Welcome to our humble abode...

63 EXT. HUNSFORD PARSONAGE- DAY. 63

There is a coop containing hens of various

descriptions ...a.pig-stye...a vegetable patch...a rose

bower. Charlotte and Mr Collins are showing Elizabeth

round the place.

And from here we have a good view of

Rosings Park, where we are honoured to

dine at least twice a week. Her

ladyship's carriage is regularly ordered

for us. I should say, one of her

ladyship's carriages, for she has

several.

My dear, I think our guest is tired after

her journey. Come on, Lizzie, let's get

some tea.

59.

a My wife encourages me to spend as much

time in the garden as possible, for the

sake of my health.

A beat. Lizzie glances at Charlotte, who remains

impassive.

I plan many improvements, of course.

(points to house)

I intend. to throw out a bow there, and

plant a lime walk.

(sharp look at Lizzie)

Oh yes, I flatter myself that any young

lady would be happy to be the mistress of

such a house.

A tiny nod from Elizabeth. She understands perfectly.

64 INT. CHARLOTTE'S PARLOUR - HUNSFORD - DAY. 64

Lizzie and Charlotte are at last alone. They sit down,

with a certain relief, in a charming little parlour that

faces the front of the house. Charlotte pours out tea.

a We shall not be disturbed here, for this

parlour is for my own particular use.

Oh Lizzie, it's such a pleasure, to run

my own home!

A flash of understanding between them.

MR COLLINS (OOV)

Charlotte! Come here!

Charlotte jumps up and rushes to the window.

What's happened?

MR COLLINS (OOV)

Charlotte!

Has the pig escaped?

Lizzie joins her at the window. outside in the lane, Mr

Collins stands, bowing, at a carriage.

Its all right. Its just Lady Catherine.

60.

They both burst out laughing. Just for a moment, the

a atmosphere is eased.

Tell me, how are things concerning Mr

Wickham?

Elizabeth's face changes.

I have not heard from Mr Wickham since

the regiment left for Brighton, but I am

informed by Lydia who keeps a breast of

all matters military that he does very

well.

a We have an invitation to visit Rosings

this evening from Lady Catherine de

Bourgh.

Elizabeth is not overcome with enthusiasm.

Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear

cousin, about your apparel. Just put on

that which is best among your clothes and

Lady Catherine will not think the worse

of you.

65 EXT. GROUNDS OF ROSINGS - EVENING. 65

Elizabeth, Charlotte and Mr Collins walk hurriedly across

the lawns towards the great house. Beyond the toparied

hedges the grey building looms ominously above them. It

is grand without being elegant.

One of the most extraordinary sights in

all Europe, is it not. The glazing alone

cost upwards of twenty thousand pounds.

61.

66 INT. STAIRWAY -- ROSINGS - THE SAME. 66

Mr Collins, Charlotte and Elizabeth are led up a vast

stairway which is painted with visions of hell. Elizabeth

stops in front of a painting of a devil. She stares at

it, It seem to speak, but she realizes the voice is

Collins chiding her.

(as the devil)

This way!

67 TNT. SALON - ROSINGS - DUSK. 67

The salon at Rosings is spectacularly grand; hideously

so. Heavy furniture, rows of servants. The three guests

are shown in by the footman. Again Mr Collins scrapes

the floor with his bow.

Your Ladyship.

(to the daughter)

Miss de Bourg.

Lady Catherine is a haughty, bossy woman. Pretty

a unspeakable, really. Her daughter is a sickly, irritable-

looking creature.

So you are Elizabeth Bennet.

I am, your ladyship.

(looking her up and down)

Hmm.

(indicates her daughter)

This is my daughter.

It's very kind of you to ask us to dine,

Lady Catherine.

Lady Catherine ignores her.

(whispers to Lizzie)

The chimneypiece alone cost A400.

But Lizzie doesn't hear. Darcy walks into the room.

Lizzie freezes. When he sees Lizzie he, too, falters, and

recovers himself. Another man (Fitzwilliam) is with him.

62.

a Mr Darcy! What are you doing here?

(another deep bow)

I had no idea we would have the honour...

A stiff bow from Darcy, who looks at Mr Collins as if

he's something brought in by the dog. He turns to Lizzie,

trying to collect himself.

Miss Bennet...I'm staying here.

You know my nephew?

Yes, madam, I had the pleasure of meeting

him in Hertfordshire.

Darcy's friend Fitzwilliam, a much more easy-going chap,

introduces himself.

a Colonel Fitzwilliam. How do you do?

He bows. Lizzie returns his smile gratefully. They move

towards the dining room. Mr Collins leans towards

Lizzie.

You know Mr Darcy is as good as engaged

to Miss de Bourg?

Really? Miss Bingley will be disappointed

to hear that.

(looks at the girl, and

whispers to charlotte)

What a sickly, cross little thing! Oh

yes, they should suit each other very

well.

Charlotte smiles back, a little fearfully. She's more

intimidated by Rosings than Elizabeth is, and indeed has

more at stake.

9 The dining room is laid for a very grand dinner -- footmen

waiting, thousands of candles.

63.

Lady Catherine seats herself at the head of the table.

The guests wait for their orders.

You sit there and you sit there. Mr

Collins! You can't sit next to your wife!

After some awkward shuffling around they all sit down.

Lizzie, much to her discomfort, finds herself sitting

next to Darcy. There is a pause.

I trust your family is in good health,

Miss Bennet?

They are, thank you.

My eldest sister is currently in London,

perhaps you happened to see her there?

I haven't been fortunate enough, no.

Lizzie looks at him. He colours slightly. Lady Catherine

addresses Lizzie in a loud voice, from the head of the

table.

Do you play the pianoforte, Miss Bennet?

A little, ma'am, and very poorly.

Oh. Do you draw?

No, not at all.

Your sisters, do they draw?

Not one.

That is very strange. But I suppose you

had no opportunity. Your mother should

have taken you to town every spring for

the benefit of the masters.

My mother would have no objection but my

father hates London.

64.

a Has your governess left you?

We never had a governess.

Mr Collins squirms in embarrassment. Darcy watches

Elizabeth, keenly.

No governess? Five daughters brought up

at home without a governess, I never

heard such a thing! Your mother must have

been quite a slave to your education.

(can't help smiling at this)

Not at all, Lady Catherine.

Mmmm. Are any of your younger sisters

out?

Yes, ma'am. All.

All! What, five out at once? Very odd!

a And you only the second - the younger

ones out before the elders are married!

Your youngest sisters must be very young.

Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. But I

think it would be very hard on younger

sisters, not to have their share of

amusement because the elder is still

unmarried. And to be kept back on such a

motive! It would hardly encourage

sisterly affection.

Upon my word, you give your opinion very

decidedly for so young a person. Pray,

what is your age?

With three younger sisters grown up, your

Ladyship can hardly expect me to own to

it.

Lady Catherine looks astonished. Mr Collins shifts in

his seat. Mr Darcy glances sharply - in fact, admiringly

- at Lizzie. She's enjoying herself.

65.

69 INT. DRAWING ROOM - ROSINGS -- NIGHT. 69

Dinner is over and they are drinking coffee. Darcy moves

towards Elizabeth but Lady Catherine interrupts, by

shouting from her seat.

Come, Miss Bennet, and play for us!

No, I beg you -

For music is my delight. In fact there

are few people in England who have more

true enjoyment of music than myself, or

better natural taste. If I had ever

learnt, I should have been a great

proficient.

So would Anne, if her health would have

allowed her.

Please, I told you I play poorly -

a MR COLLINS

Come come, Elizabeth, her ladyship

demands it!

Lizzie reluctantly sits down at the piano and starts to

play. Lady Catherine takes no notice and talks loudly

over the music.

How does Georgina get along, Darcy?

She plays very well.

I hope she practises. No excellence can

be acquired without constant practice. I

have told Mrs Collins this.

(turns to Charlotte)

Though you have no instrument of your own

you are very welcome to come to Rosings

and play on the piano in the

housekeeper's room.

Thank you, your ladyship.

66.

a You would be in nobody's way", you know,

in that part of the house.

Darcy flinches at her bad manners. He moves away to the

piano where Lizzie is playing - not that terribly well,

it must be said. A moment passes.

You mean to frighten me, Mr Darcy, by

coming in all your state to hear me, but

I won't be alarmed even though your

sister does play so well.

I am well enough acquainted with you,

Miss Bennet, to know I cannot alarm you

even should I wish it.

A beat. They eye each other warily. Colonel Fitzwilliam

joins them.

What was my friend like, in

Hertfordshire?

a You really care to know?

The colonel nods.

Prepare yourself for something very

dreadful.

The first time I saw him, at the

Assembly, he danced with nobody at all -

even though gentlemen were scarce and

there was more than one young lady who

was sitting down without a partner.

I knew nobody beyond my own party.

True, and nobody can be introduced in a

ballroom.

Fitzwilliam! Come here and talk to us!

0 Fitzwilliam moves away. Darcy and Elizabeth are alone.

67.

I do not have the talent of conversing

easily with people I have never met

before.

Maybe you should take your aunt's advice

and practice.

Ouch! Darcy flinches. Lizzie turns away from him and

carries on playing. Darcy gazes at the curve of her neck.

She plays a false note, stumbles, and grimly carries on.

70 INT. DRAWING ROOM - HUNSFORD - DAY. 70

Elizabeth is writing a letter in the drawing room. She

starts "Dear Jane..:" The doorbell rings in the

background, she thinks nothing of it and continues. The

maid opens the door to the drawing room and Mr Darcy

enters.

Mr Darcy!

An awkward pause.

Please, do be seated.

I'm afraid Mr and Mrs Collins are gone on

business to the village.

A pause. What on earth does Mr Darcy want? He paces up

and down.

This is a charming house. I believe my

aunt did a great deal to it when Mr

Collins first arrived.

I believe so -- and she could not have

bestowed her kindness on a more grateful

Another pause.

Mr Collins seems very fortunate in his

choice of wife.

68.

He is indeed lucky to have found one of

the few sensible women who would have

accepted him.

Darcy sits down.

Shall I call for some tea?

No. Thankyou.

The sound of the front door, and voices. Darcy jumps up.

Good day, Miss Bennet. It's been a

pleasure.

He bows to her and leaves. Elizabeth sits there, bemused

and intrigued.

Charlotte, in the hallway, taking off her bonnet. Darcy

hurries past her, with a swift bow, and leaves abruptly.

Charlotte gazes after him in surprise.

a Charlotte heads to the drawing room where she finds

Elizabeth sitting, bemused.

What on earth have you done to poor Mr

Darcy?

ELIZABETH.

I have no idea.

73 She truly doesn't. Charlotte gives Elizabeth a look 73

71 EXT. HUNSFORD CHURCH - DAY. 71

Sunday service is over and worshippers are leaving the "

church. Mr Collins, in his vestments, obeises himself to

Lady Catherine, who is sweeping out with her miserable-

looking daughter and downtrodden governess. Elizabeth

joins Colonel Fitzwilliam. They walk down the path

together.

How long do you plan to stay in Kent,

Colonel?

As long as Darcy chooses. I am at his

disposal.

69.

I do imagine your cousin brought you down

with him chiefly to have someone to order

around. I wonder he does not marry and

secure a lasting convenience of that

kind.

She would be a lucky woman.

Really?

Darcy is a most loyal companion. From

what I heard, on our journey here, he

recently came to the rescue of one of his

friends just in time.

Darcy, waylaid by various people, comes out of the

church. His eyes search for Elizabeth. He sees her with

Fitzwilliam and hesitates. Too late! Mr Collins steps up

to him and engages him in conversation. Elizabeth stops,

at the churchyard gate.

What happened?

He saved the man from an imprudent

marriage.

Who was the man?

His closest friend. Mr Bingley.

A silence.

Did Mr Darcy give you his reasons for

this interference?

There were apparently strong objections

to the lady.

What kind of objections? Her lack of

fortune?

I think it was her family that was

considered unsuitable.

70.

So he separated them?

I believe so. I know nothing else.

Elizabeth grows pale. She turns to look at Darcy who is

joined by his aunt.

I wish Mr Darcy and all his friends well

in finding partners suitable to their

very high standards. Good morning, Col.

Fitzwilliam.

76 Elizabeth see that Collinses are still busy with their 76

parishioners and slips away. Darcy sees her from a

distance.

72 EXT. ROSINGS PARK - DAY. 72

Lizzie walks across the park - anywhere, she hardly

cares. She is in a turmoil of misery and fury. How could

Darcy do such a terrible thing! It starts to rain.

a A Grecian summer house by the lake. The rain is now

bucketing down. Lizzie hurries into the summer house and

sits down, heavily, on a bench.

Her poor sister; Lizzie gazes in despair at the rain-

lashed landscape.

A man approaches, across the park. He draws nearer.

It's Darcy. Elizabeth stiffens. He's hurrying towards

her. Sodden, breathless, he comes into the. summer house.

He is in a state of agitation - far too agitated to

notice her upset face.

Miss Bennet, I have struggled in vain but

I can bear it no longer ... . The past

months have been a torment...

He pauses, unable to speak. Elizabeth stares at him in

astonishment. He struggles on.

I came to Rosings with the single object

of seeing you...I had to see you...

a Me?

71.

a I've fought against my better judgement,

my family's expectation...

The inferiority of your birth.. .my rank

and circumstance...

all those things.. .but I'm willing to put

them aside... and ask you to end my

agony...

I don't understand...

I love you. Most ardently.

Elizabeth stares at him.

Please do me the honour of accepting my

hand.

A silence. Elizabeth struggles with the most painful

confusion of feeling. Finally she recovers.

Sir, I appreciate the struggle you have

been through, and I am very sorry to have

caused you pain. Believe me, it was

unconsciously done.

A silence. Gathering her shawl, she gets to her feet.

Is this your reply?

Yes, sir.

Are you laughing at me?

No?

Are you rejecting me?

I'm sure that the feelings which, as

you've told me, have hindered your

regard, will help you in overcoming it.

72.

A terrible silence, as this sinks in. Neither of them can

a move. At last, Darcy speaks. He is very pale.

Might I ask why, with so little endeavour

at civility, I am thus repulsed?

(trembling with emotion)

I might as well enquire why, with so.

evident a design of insulting me, you

chose to tell me that you liked me

against your better judgement. If I was

uncivil, that was some excuse -

Believe me, I didn't mean -

But I have other reasons, you know I

have!

What reasons?

Do you think that anything might tempt me

to accept the man who has ruined, perhaps

for ever, the happiness of a most beloved

sister?

Silence. Darcy looks as if he's been struck across the

face.

Do you deny it, Mr Darcy? That you

separated a young couple who loved each

other, exposing your friend to the

censure of the world for caprice, and my

sister to its derision for disappointed

hopes, and involving them both in misery

of the acutest kind?

I do not deny it.

How could you do it?

Because I believed your sister

indifferent to him.

a Indifferent?

73.

a I watched them most carefully, and

realized his attachment was much deeper

than hers.

That's because she's shy!

Bingley too is modest, and was persuaded

that she didn't feel strongly for him.

Because you suggested it!

I did it for his own good.

My sister hardly shows her true feelings

to me!

(pause, takes a breath)

I suppose you suspect that his fortune

had some bearing on the matter?

No! I wouldn't do your sister the

dishonour. Though it was suggested -

What was?

It was made perfectly clear that-an

advantageous marriage...

Did my sister give that impression?

No!

An awkward pause.

There was, however, I have to admit...

the matter of your family -

Our want of connection? Mr Bingley didn't

vex himself about that!

No, it was more than that.

74.

How, sir?

(pause, very uncomfortable)

It pains me to say this, but it was the

lack of propriety shown by your mother,

your three younger sisters - even, on

occasion, your father. Forgive me.

Lizzie blushes. He has hit home. Darcy paces up and down.

You and your sister -- I must exclude from

this...

Darcy stops and gazes at her. He is in turmoil. Elizabeth

glares at him, in a blaze of fury and misery.

And what about Mr Wickham?

Mr Wickham?

What excuse can you give for your

behavior to him?

You take an eager interest in that

gentleman's concerns!

He told me of his misfortunes.

Oh yes, his misfortunes have been very

great indeed!

You have ruined his chances, and yet

treat him with sarcasm?

So this is your opinion of me! Thank you

for explaining so fully. Perhaps these

offences might have been overlooked, if

your pride had not been hurt -

My pride?

- by my honesty in admitting scruples

about our relationship.

75.

And those are the words of a gentleman?

From the first moment I met you, your

arrogance and conceit, your selfish

distain of the feelings of others, made

me realize that you were the last man in

the world I could ever be prevailed upon

to marry.

Darcy recoils, as if slapped. A terrible silence.

Forgive me, madam, for taking up so much

of your time.

He leaves, abruptly.

Elizabeth watches him stride away, through the rain. What

has she done? She bitterly bursts into tears.

73 INT. HUNSFORD - DAY. 73

Elizabeth comes in soaked to the skin. Charlotte runs to

her.

Elizabeth!

I was caught somewhat off-guard.

74 INT. BEDROOM - HUNSFORD - THE SAME. 74

Charlotte attends to Elizabeth.who has changed and is

drying her hair, a shawl around her shoulders.

Shall I call the doctor?

No! Charlotte, I shall be quite all

right. Please, give Lady de Bourgh my

apologies. You must not keep her waiting.

Mr Collins clatters up the stairs.

(popping his head around the

Come on. We shall be late!

76.

Charlotte leaves, reluctantly, and goes downstairs.

Later; The sound of the front door closing. Elizabeth

sits down, heavily, on the bed. She walks downstairs and

enters the drawing room.

75 INT. DRAWING ROOM - HUNSFORD - DAY. 75

Elizabeth is in the drawing room, she looks at a book on

the table. It is Fordyce's Sermons. She puts it down and

walks to the mirror and stares at herself. After a moment

suddenly Darcy's face appears. She freezes. They stare at

each other without speaking. Finally...

I came to leave you this.

He places a letter on the table behind her. Elizabeth

does not turn but watches him through the mirror.

I'm not going to renew the sentiments

which were so disgusting to you, but to

address the two offenses you have laid

against me. I had not long been in

Hertfordshire before I saw that Bingley

preferred your eldest sister. I observed

my friend's behaviour attentively and I

could perceive that his partiality for

Miss Bennet was beyond what I have ever

witnessed in him.

Elizabeth cannot bring herself to look at Darcy. She

stares at her own reflection as he speaks.

Yet when I observed your sister .1

detected no symptom of peculiar regard,

and witnessed only the families coarse

appetite for having their daughters

married favorably. And so in London,

perhaps erroneously, I persuaded him of

the unfitness of the match citing your

sisters coolness towards him.

We zoom in on Elizabeth's reflection.

It was unknowingly done and though the

motives which governed me may to you

appear naturally insufficient, they were

done to protect a friend. As to the other

a more serious matter..

77.

As Elizabeth turns she realises Darcy has gone. Darcy's

voice carries.

DARCY (V.0.) (CONT'D)

"My father provided for Mr Wickham a

valuable living.

Elizabeth tears open the envelope, her hands shaking, and

reads the letter, as Darcy's voice carries on.

DARCY (V.0.) (CONT'D)

"But upon his death, however, Mr Wickham

told me that he had no intention of

taking orders and would I recompense him

to the tune of A3000 so he could go to

town and study the law.

We circle Elizabeth as she reads.

DARCY (CONT'D) (V.0.)

This I did, though by now I had some

doubts about his character. These were

confirmed by reports that he had sunk

into a life of idleness, gambling and

dissipation. The money was soon used up,

whereupon he wrote demanding more money

which I refused, whereupon he severed all

Holding the letter she looks out of the window to see

Darcy riding away.

"But last summer he was unwillingly

obtruded on my notice when he connived a

relationship with my sister whom he

persuaded to be in love with him and made

her consent to an elopement. She was but

fifteen.

76 EXT. HUNSFORD - DAY. 76

Darcy rides off.

DARCY (V.0.)

Mr Wickham's prime objective was her

inheritance of thirty thousand pounds but

hope of revenging me was a strong

inducement. I was lucky enough to

persuade my sister of her folly. I hope

this goes someway to mitigating my

behaviour in your eyes. If you doubt my

word please have it confirmed by my

cousin Fitzwilliam.

78.

a 77 INT. DRAWING ROOM -- HUNSFORD - LATER - DAY 7

Elizabeth with the letter. Charlotte walks in. Elizabeth

is shaking.

Lizzy: Are you alright?

I do not know. I hardly know myself.

Elizabeth looks at Charlotte utterly shaken.

78 TNT/EXT. CARRIAGE/CHEAPSIDE - DAY. 78

Elizabeth riding in a carriage through Cheapside, reading

the letter.

DARCY (V.0.)

P.S. As we shall never meet again, I wish

you all happiness in the future.

Elizabeth looks out at the high warehouse building and

the bustle of trade. There is no horizon.

is 79 INT. GARDINERS HOUSE - CHEAPSIDE - DAY. 7

Mrs Gardiner, the girls' kindly aunt, is taking

Elizabeth's coat from her.

How fortunate, you are here just in time

to catch everybody coming through from

Longbourn.

How is Jane?

Mrs Gardiner smiles sadly.

She is outside.

Through a window Elizabeth sees Jane sitting quietly

alone at her needle work.

80 EXT. SMALL BACK GARDEN OF THE GARDINERS' HOUSE - E

CHEAPSIDE - THE SAME.

Elizabeth and Jane sit together in the small walled

garden.

79.

Jane is all smiles, but behind her eyes is a sadness

unseen before. Elizabeth is desperate to unburden herself

a but feels unable.

I am quite over him, Lizzie. If he passed

in the street I would hardly notice.

London is so diverting...

oh Jane...

Its true! What with the theatre and...

But tell me, what news from Kent?

Nothing. Everything as you might imagine.

Elizabeth tries to smile. There is a crash as all the

Bennet's arrive at the house. Kitty rushes into the

garden crying her eyes out, she is followed by Lydia and

Mrs Bennet.

Lizzie, tell mama, tell her!

Mrs Forster has invited me.

Why didn't she ask me as well?

Kitty, what's happened?

- because she likes me better.

I've just as much right as Lydia -

Oh, if I could but go to Brighton -

- and more so, because I'm two years

older!

Elizabeth looks to Jane.

Lydia has been invited to Brighton with

the Foresters.

80.

a A little sea-bathing would set me up very

I shall dine with the officers every

night!

An anguished wail from Kitty.

I'm sure I cried for two days when

Colonel Millar's regiment went away.

thought I should have broke my heart.

Mother! Are you all mad?

She glares at them, deeply upset -- by them, by

everything.

81 INT. THE GARDINERS' HOUSE - DAY. 81

Elizabeth has found a quiet corner with her father.

Please Papa, don't let her go!

Lydia will never be easy till she has

exposed herself in some public place or

other, and we can never expect her to do

it with so little inconvenience as under

the present circumstances.

(with great emotion)

If you, dear father, will not take the

trouble to check her, she will be fixed

forever as the silliest and most

determined flirt who ever made her family

ridiculous. And Kitty will follow, as she

always does.

We shall have no peace until she goes.

(really angry now)

Peace! Is that all you care about?

Colonel Forster is a sensible man and

will keep her out of any real mischief,

and she is far too poor to be an object

of prey to anyone.

81.

Father, its dangerous! -

I'm sure the officers will find women

better worth their while. Let us hope, in

fact, that her stay in Brighton will

teach her her own insignificance. At any

rate she can hardly grow any worse,

without authorizing us to lock her up for

the rest of her life.

Elizabeth gazes at her father - will nothing touch him?

He gave up on his daughter long ago. For this, just now,

she hates him.

No wonder our family is treated with

contempt.

She leaves, tears stinging her eyes. Her father looks

puzzled at her outburst.

82 INT. DRAWING ROOM - CHEAPSIDE - THE SAME. 82

Mr Bennet follows Elizabeth in.

Well, at least the house will be quieter.

I don't wish to be stuck with such a

foolish family any longer, with your

constant talk of men and marriages.

Surely there is more to life.

Lizzie dear, you would be very welcome to

accompany us?

Oh yes. We plan to journey through the

Peak District. You'd be most welcome.

Oh, the glories of nature! What are men,

compared to rocks and mountains?

Believe me, men are either eaten up with

arrogance or stupidity. And if they're

amiable they're so easily led that they

have no minds of their own whatsoever.

82.

Take care, my love, that savours strongly

of bitterness.

No, they bring nothing but heartache.

83 INT. BEDROOM - CHEAPSIDE - NIGHT. 83

As usual Elizabeth and Jane share a bed. They lie next to

each other in the darkness

I saw Mr Darcy when I was in Rosings.

Why did you not tell me. Did he mention

Mr Bingley.

Pause.

No. He did not.

Elizabeth has never felt more alone in the company of her

sister.

84 EXT. DERBYSHIRE - DAY. 84

A ravishing landscape of savage and romantic beauty -

scudding clouds, mountains, wild rocky outcrops.

Elizabeth is walking freely, the wind in her hair. As she

nears the peak of a promontory, Mr and Mrs Gardiner are

below making their way towards her. They smile at her.

She strides off determined to reach the very top. When

she gets there she stands with her arms outstretched, her

head back laughing into the wind. The view is

magnificent. She breathes deeply.

85 EXT. LAMBTON - DUSK. 85

An establishing shot of Lambton, a charming market town.

Through the window of an inn we see Elizabeth and Mr and

Mrs Gardiner at a table.

86 INT. INN - LAMBTON - NIGHT. 86

In the inn, the Gardiner's and Elizabeth are eating

supper. An air of high spirits. At the next table,

another amiable tourist couple are also tucking into

their food.

83.

a (indicating her husband)

He's been taking the waters at Buxton.

Hasn't done him a jot of good.

But we've had a fine time, haven't we

dear?

We've visited Chatsworth, Dovedale,

Pemberley?

Just two miles from here.

close, very close, on Lizzie's face.

One of the best houses in the country.

Aren't you acquainted with the owner, Mr

a Darcy?

Well, we shall go there tomorrow, Lizzie.

I would rather stay here.

Stay here?

I must own that I'm tired of great

houses. All those carpets and curtains.

But you liked Chatsworth.

If it is anything like Mr Darcy, I am

sure I will not be able to bear it.

Come, come, Lizzie.

The grounds alone are worth a visit.

84.

Let us not make a fuss. If the girl does

not want to go there is little point in

persuading her.

87 INT. BEDROOM -- INN - NIGHT. 87

Elizabeth is preparing for bed. The chambermaid fills her

washbowl and starts to leave.

I hear that Pemberley is not far from

here.

Yes, madam.

You see something of the owner, do you,

in town?

Not for some months, madam, for he's

still in London, I believe.

A pause. Close on Elizabeth's face.

88 EXT. PEMBERLEY - DAY. 8n

The carriage enters the gates of Pemberley.

I'm so glad you changed your mind.

Elizabeth is alert, her eyes bright with curiosity. The

parkland is wild and rocky. Deer graze; rooks wheel in

the sky. A sense of freedom and liberation. As the

carriage drives over the top of a hill, close on

Elizabeth's face. She gasps. The Gardiners gasp.

A huge, wide shot of Pemberley House. It's vast,

breathtakingly beautiful, set in great boulder-strewn

park lands. A mansion built of golden stone, glowing in

the sunlight.

89 EXT. PARK - PEMBERLY - THE SAME. 89

Elizabeth walks through the magnificent grounds.

Imagine being mistress of all this. It is

as big as all Cheapside.

Elizabeth is lost in admiration.

85.

90 INT. PEMBERLY - DAY. 90

Elizabeth and the Gardiners are being taken on the tour

by the housekeeper, Mrs Reynolds, who witters on in the

background with descriptions of each room. Elizabeth is

apart and we witness the exquisite house from her point

of view. A book lies open, on a reading desk, Elizabeth

turns it over to read the title.

Keep up.

They walk through room after amazing room: a breath-

taking library, an unbelievable staircase.

91 INT. PICTURE GALLERY - PEMBERLY -- DAY. 91

The huge picture gallery. Elizabeth is apart from the

rest looking at the pictures she stops by a painting of

Darcy. She looks at it thoughtfully but is interrupted by

Mrs Reynolds and the Gardiners who are following her.

This is my master - Mr Darcy.

A handsome face. Lizzie, is it a true

likeness of him?

Does this young lady know Mr Darcy?

Only a little.

And do you not think him a handsome man,

Miss?

Yes, yes I suppose he is.

Mrs Reynolds moves the Gardiners on to another painting,

but Elizabeth stays, staring at Darcy's image.

And this is his sister, Miss Georgians.

She plays and sings all day long.

We realize that in the distance we have heard music.

Elizabeth is still gazing at the portrait of Darcy, then

suddenly snaps out of her reverie, as she processes Mrs

86.

a They are at home?!

Miss Darcy is always down for the summer.

Mr Darcy is due here tomorrow.

Is your master much at Pemberley?

Not as much as I would wish, sir, or he --

for he dearly loves it here.

Relaxed again Elizabeth wanders off as the Gardiners talk

to Mrs Reynolds.

If he should marry, you might see more of

him.

Yes madam, but I do not know when that

will be. I do not know a lady who is good

enough for him.

What do you mean?

I've known Mr Darcy since he was a boy.

He was always a kind and generous person

even then. Not everyone can see it,

because he does not make a meal of it

like a lot of young men nowadays. But he

is the most sweet-tempered and kind-

hearted man I have ever known.

As the Gardiners look at more paintings, Elizabeth drifts

out through the open doors and onto a terrace. In the

bright sunlight the view of the gardens and valley beyond

is exquisite. Outside the music we heard before is

louder.

92 EXT. TERRACE - PEMBERLY - THE SAME. 92

Elizabeth wanders aimlessly across the terrace, being

unconsciously drawn by the music. Suddenly Elizabeth

recognizes the tune (perhaps it is one she has played

earlier - but this time it is played exquisitely). She

follows the music round a corner, intrigued as she gets

a closer and closer to its source. She finally realizes she

is outside the room where the music is being played.

87.

She steals herself a moment, but her curiosity gets the

better of her and she discretely peeps in.

Through the window she sees Georgina Darcy, a beautiful

fifteen year old playing the piano with great passion and

fluency. She is moved by the music and listens. After

sometime, then someone steps into her view but is mostly

hidden by shadows in the room. He is directly behind

Georgina and gently puts his hands over her eyes.

Georgina stops playing and laughs uproariougly. She

stands and kisses the figure, the sunlight hits his face.

It is Darcy.

Georgina and Darcy kiss. Elizabeth is stunned to see him

there. Darcy glances up and sees Elizabeth watching him.

For a moment they both stare at each other frozen with

surprise. Georgina starts in fright at the figure,

Elizabeth turns and runs. Darcy comes out after her.

Miss Bennet!

Elizabeth stops, appallingly embarrassed. Darcy catches

up with her. They both blush, deeply.

I thought you were in London.

No... I'm not.

No.

Another ghastly silence. Then they both speak at once.

I came here a day early - We wouldn't have come -

-- some business with my I'm so terribly sorry -

They stop. He gazes at her with great emotion.

I'm visiting Derbyshire with my uncle and

aunt.

(trying to recover)

And are you having a pleasant trip?

Very pleasant. Tomorrow we go to Matlock.

88.

a Tomorrow?

Are you staying at Larnbton?

Yes. At the Rose and Crown.

Another pause. She extends her hand.

I'm so sorry to intrude. They said the

house was open for visitors. I had no

idea...

She shakes his hand and starts to walk away.

May I see you to the village?

Oh no! I'm very fond of walking.

Yes.

Goodbye, Mr Darcy.

She hurries away. He gazes after her.

A wood. Now she is out of sight Lizzie collapses on a

log. She is utterly undone. Around her, the birds sing.

93 INT. INN -- NIGHT. 93

It's that night. Lizzie comes downstairs, for supper. And

stops. Through a gap in the door to the restaurant she

sees Mr Darcy talking to her aunt and uncle.

- I shall send my carriage at noon

After a moment Darcy leaves and Elizabeth approaches the

table.

Lizzie, I've just met Mr Darcy! Why

didn't you tell us you had seen him? He's

asked us to dine with him tomorrow - He

was very civil, was he not?

Very civil.

89.

a Not at all like you painted him.

To dine with him?

- there is something pleasing about his

mouth, when he speaks.

You don't mind delaying our journey for

another day?

Elizabeth shakes her head, dumbly.

He particularly wishes you to meet his

sister.

His sister?

94 INT. LIBRARY AND DRAWING ROOM -- PEMBERLEY - DAY. 94

A footman escorts Elizabeth and the Gardiner's through

the stupendous library. From the drawing room, the sound

of a piano playing.. It's the same music Elizabeth played

at Rosings, but this time played very beautifully.

Elizabeth is filled with trepidation; we can almost feel

her heart racing.

The footman opens the double doors to reveal the

magnificent drawing room. Darcy is there. So is the

dreaded Miss Bingley. Seeing her, Elizabeth's polite

smile falters. Darcy's sister Georgiana plays the piano.

She jumps up and hurries over.

My sister, Miss Darcy...

They smile and bob. Georgiana is a friendly, sweet girl.

Miss Elizabeth, my brother has told me so

much about you. I feel as if we are

friends already.

What a beautiful instrument.

My brother gave it to me.

(smiles at him)

He shouldn't have.

90.

a Yes I should.

Oh very well then.

She's easily persuaded, is she not?

They gaze at each other with affection. Miss Bingley

approaches.

What a surprise, Miss Bennet, to see you

in Derbyshire.

Your brother is well, I trust?

Very well. He hopes to come here soon.

(significant glance at

Pemberley has a special attraction for

him.

Yes, the library is particularly

splendid, is it not?

A small silence. Darcy, uneasy at their conversation,

approaches.

And how is your family, Miss Bennet?

Someone told me the militia are removed

from Meryton.

They must be a great loss for some of you

Darcy comes to the rescue.

Your uncle is fond of fishing, I hear.

Yes, very.

(drawing her away)

Can you persuade him to borrow a rod this

afternoon?

91.

For the lake here is very well stocked

and its occupants left in peace for far

a too long.

Elizabeth smiles, surprised and delighted. And grateful

to be rescued. What does Mr Darcy mean by this?

She moves away, to speak to her uncle. Miss Bingley moves

closer to Darcy.

In six months I have never seen anyone so

altered. How brown and coarse she has

become!

I perceive no alteration' except she is

rather tanned. Hardly a miraculous

consequence of travelling in the summer.

I remember, when we first knew her in

Hertfordshire, you said "she a beauty? I

would have as soon called her mother a

wit!"

You must have mis-heard, Caroline. Even

had I thought it, I would have couched it

with a little more finesse.

Elizabeth looks across at Darcy - they smile at each

other.

95 EXT. DERBYSHIRE - DUSK 95

Darcy is driving Elizabeth and the Gardiner's back to

Lampton. The rugged landscape looks even more beautiful

and dramatic in the dusk light. Elizabeth sits up with

Darcy who holds the reins, while Mr and Mrs Gardiner sit

comfortably in the carriage. Mr Gardiner smiles broadly

at two large fish that lie beside him.

It is so beautiful up here. I will be

sorry to leave.

Darcy smiles at her.

You have been a most gracious host. I'm

sure my aunt and uncle will talk of

nothing else for days.

I have recently thought a great deal

about how I appear and act to others.

92.

She smiles softly at Darcy.

It does you credit, sir.

96 INT. INN -- LAMBTON - NIGHT. 96

The party arrive back at the inn.

(quietly to Elizabeth)

What a capital fellow.

Thank you so much Mr Darcy.

Darcy is about to take his leave when a servant brings

Elizabeth a letter.

For you, madam.

107 Its from Jane. 10

a she rips open the letter.

97 INT. PARLOUR - INN - LAMBTON - THE SAME. 97

Elizabeth is crying with the open letter in her hand.

Darcy and Mr and Mrs Gardiner stand dumb, not quite

knowing what to do. Elizabeth tries to speak but bursts

into tears again. She cries for a long time.

Miss Elizabeth.

She cries on.

Miss Elizabeth.

She eventually gathers herself.

It is the most dreadful news. Lydia has

run away - with Mr Wickham. They are gone

together from Brighton to Lord knows

where. She has no money, no connections,

I fear she is lost forever.

93.

a (quietly to Elizabeth)

This is my fault - if only I had exposed

Wickham when I should.

No, this is my fault. I might have

prevented all of it by merely being open

with my sisters rather than too proud

with my knowledge.

Mr and Mrs Gardiner look at each other perplexed.

Has anything been done to recover her?

Father has gone to London. But I know

very well that nothing can be done. We

have not the smallest hope.

Would to heaven that anything could be

said or done on my part that could offer

consolation to such distress.

Sir, it think it is too late.

I am afraid we must go at once - I will

join Mr Bennet and find Lydia before she

ruins the family forever.

I am so very sorry. This is grave indeed.

I will leave you. Goodbye.

Darcy pauses at the door, looks back at Elizabeth and

then is gone.

98 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT. 98

The Gardiner's carriage racing through the night.

99 INT. LONGBOURN - MRS BENNET'S BEDROOM - DAY. 99

Elizabeth, Jane, Mary and Kitty are gathered around Mrs

Bennet who has taken to her bed.

Why did the Foresters let her out of

their sight? I always said they were

unfit to have charge of her.

94.

And now she is ruined.

You are all ruined. Who will take you now

with a fallen sister? Poor Mr Bennet will

now have to fight the perfidious Wickham

and then be killed...

He hasn't found him yet, Mama.

- and The Collins' will turn us out

before he is cold in his grave -

Do not be alarmed, mama. Our uncle is

helping in the search.

Lydia must know what this will do to my

nerves, such flutterings and spasms all

over me...

100 EXT. LONDON - DAY. 10

Were looking directly down onto a London street. Mr

Bennet stands still against the passing pedestrian

traffic. He tries to address a passer by.

Excuse me.

They ignore him. He tries again

MR BENNET (CONT'D)

Excuse me, I'm looking for...

Mr Bennet takes out a piece of paper.

101 INT. MESS HALL - BARRACKS - NIGHT. 101

Mr Bennet walks timidly into the mess hall. It is smoky,

drunken, noisy, boisterous and extremely threatening. Mr

Bennet stops at the threshold, gulps, then the whole room

turns round to look at him and a sudden silence descends.

Mr Bennet is terrified.

a Wickham.

95.

102 INT. UPSTAIRS AT LONGBOURNE - DAY. 102

Elizabeth and Jane are outside Mrs Bennet's room. From

inside we hear a moan.

MRS BENNET (OFF)

We are ruined. Ruined.

How long is this going to go on for?

Don't be too harsh. This is hard for all

of us.

They walk downstairs.

103 INT. DOWNSTAIRS - LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 103

Elizabeth and Jane walk into the drawing room. Kitty and

Mary are busying themselves.

I can't bear not hearing anything.

Look. It's Papa!

104 INT. LIBRARY - LONGBOURN - DAY. CONTINUOUS. 104

The girls rush into the library. Mr Bennet slumps at his

desk.

- who is to fight Wickham and make him

marry Lydia, now you've come home?

For God's sake let me be!

Lizzie, help me with my boots.

Elizabeth pulls off his boots for him.

You suppose them to be still in London?

Where else could they be so well

concealed?

Oh father, I'm so sorry.

96.

a It's been my own doing.

You mustn't be too severe on yourself.

No Lizzie. Let me once in my life feel

how much I have been to blame.

I am not afraid of being overpowered by

the experience. It will pass away soon

enough.

105 EXT/INT. BOARDING HOUSE - LONDON - DAY. 105

We're looking through a window to the stairwell of a

seedy looking boarding house. An anonymas pair of mens

boots appear climbing up the stairs. We move across the

exterior wall of the building to find an open window

through which Lydia and Wickham can be seen.

Lydia and Wickham sit, snuggled close beside the fire in

their room in a humble lodging house. They're eating a

meal with relish. Giggling, Lydia feeds him a mouthful.

A knock at the door. They freeze, like naughty children.

106 EXT. GARDEN - LONGBOURN - DAY. 106

The girls have a letter. Kitty grabs it from Jane, Mary

grabs it from Kitty, before she has a chance to open it

Jane grabs it from Mary.

It's to Daddy. It's in uncle's writing.

Mr Bennet snatches the letter.

As it is addressed to me...

He tears it open and begins to read, squinting because he

has forgotten his glasses.

MR BENNET (CONT'D)

He's found them.

Are they married?

(squinting at the letter)

Just wait. I can't make out his script.

97.

Elizabeth snatches it.

Give it to me. (she reads)

Are they married?

They will be, if father will settle a

hundred pounds a year on her. That is

Wickham's condition.

A hundred pounds!

You will agree to this, father?

The letter is passed around the other girls.

Of course I will agree. But how much your

uncle has laid on this wretched man

already is anybody's guess.

What do you mean, Father?

No man in his senses would marry Lydia on

so slight a temptation as a hundred a

year.

Ah, I see.

See what?

Your uncle is very generous.

Do you think it a large sum?

Wickham's a fool if he takes her for less

than ten thousand pounds. I should be

sorry to think so ill of him in the very -

beginning of our relationship.

Ten thousand! Heaven forbid!

98.

a 107 INT. MR & MRS BENNET'S BEDROOM - LONGBOURN - DAY. It

Close on Mrs Bennet's face as she springs out of bed.

Pure triumphant joy.

Lydia married! And at sixteen too! Ring

the bell, Kitty! I must put on my things

and tell Lady Lucas! Oh to see her face!

And tell the servants they will have a

bowl of punch!

The other Bennet's are assembled.

We should thank our uncle, Mama.

And so he should help! He's much richer

than us, and he hasn't got any children.

How can you talk like that?

Her mother gets to her feet.

A daughter, married!

Is that all you think about?

"Mrs Wickham" - how well it sounds

You don't know what he's like

Now where will they live? Purvis Lodge

might do. Ashworth is vacant of course,

but it's too far off, I couldn't bear to

have her ten miles from me -

Before you take any of these houses, Mrs

Bennet, let us be clear. Into one house

she will never be welcome.

Mrs Bennet stares at him.

99.

a 108 INT. HALLWAY - LONGBOURN - DAY. 108

Lydia's triumphant face. The cat that's got the cream.

She comes into the house with Wickham. Her mother kisses

her, effusively. Mr Bennet coldly bows.

- and then we passed Sarah Sims in her

carriage so I took off my glove and let

my hand just rest on the window frame, so

she might see the ring, and then 1 bowed

and smiled like anything!

Kitty shrieks with envy. Lizzie moves away; she cannot

bear it. Wickham catches her eye, but she ignores him.

109 INT. DINING ROOM - LONGBOURN - DAY. 109

They are taking their seats for dinner. Lydia moves to

the head of the table.

Jane, I take your place now, and you must

go lower, for I am the married woman.

She sits down and giggles at her sisters. The maid brings

a in the food. Lydia holds up her hand, to display her ring

to the maid.

You must all go to Brighton, for that is

the place to get husbands! I hope you

have half my good luck.

Lydia!

Wickham looking uncomfortable. He's talking to the stony-

faced Mr Bennet.

I've been enlisted in a regiment in the

north of England, sir.

l f G MR BENNET

I'm glad to hear of it.

Near Newcastle. We shall travel there

next week.

100.

a Can I come and stay with you?

That is out. of the question.

Lydia, rattling on to Lizzie.

Well, Monday morning came and I was in

such a fuss -

I don't want to hear -

- there was my aunt, preaching and

talking away just as if she was reading a

sermon, she was horrid unpleasant -

Can't you understand why?

- but I didn't hear a word because I was

thinking of my dear Wickham. I longed to

a know whether he would be married in his

blue coat...

Mary turning to Wickham.

The north of England, I believe, boasts

some spectacular scenery...

Lydia burbling on, to a stony-faced Lizzie.

- and then my uncle was called away from

the church on business and I thought -

who is to be our best man if he doesn't

come back? Lucky he did come back or I

would have had to ask Mr Darcy -

Mr Darcy?

(claps her hand to her mouth)

I forgot! I shouldn't have said a word!

101.

Mr Darcy was at your wedding?

He was the one that discovered us! He

knew where to find Wickham, you see.

But don't tell anyone! He told me not to

tell!

Lizzie stares at her. Darcy at her wedding? Lydia turns

away, to talk to the others.

110 EXT. GARDEN - LONGBOURN - DAY. 110

Lydia, croquet mallet in hand, drags her new husband

across the lawn. Kitty follows.

Come on, Wickham! You've got to play.

Yes, come on!

Wickham looks slightly abashed - a trapped man. What has

he let himself in for?

Lizzie comes into the garden, looking for her younger

sister. Wickham detaches himself and comes over to her. A

rueful smile.

I hope we can be even better friends, now

we're brother and sister.

An attempt at a twinkling smile, but Elizabeth is now

immune to his charm. She nods, briefly.

I hear you visited Pemberley. My dear old

home.

I met Mr Darcy's sister.

Did you like her?

Very much.

(looks at him)

We found a great deal to talk about.

102.

A beat. Wickham looks deeply uneasy. He bows and leaves.

Lizzie watches him pick up a mallet and take his turn.

She can't bear it; she hurries up to Lydia and draws her

aside.

Why was Mr Darcy there?

I'm not supposed to tell.

Lizzie abandons her pride. She takes Lydia's hand.

Please, Lydia!

Because he paid for it.

For what?

The wedding, Wickham's commission.

Everything.

Everything?

Lydia! It's your turn!

Lydia moves to go.

People kept saying Wickham owed them

money, it was so tedious. So Darcy

settled his debts but I don't really like

him, do you?

Lizzie pulls her back.

But why did he do it?

I don't know, do I? Anyway you're not to

tell because it's supposed to be our

uncle who paid, and he wouldn't have

a minded paying, either, because I'm his

favorite.

103.

a She leaves. Giggles and shrieks from the croquet lawn.

Elizabeth looks blank with shock.

111 EXT. BINGLEY'S HOUSE - MAYFAIR -- DAY. 111

Close on Darcy's grimly determined face. Drawing back, we

see that he is walking down a street in Mayfair. He

arrives at a house, pauses, and rings the bell. The door

is opened.

Mr Darcy.

I have some business with Mr Bingley.

Darcy goes inside and the door shuts. The camera cranes

slowly upstairs until we can see through the first floor

window and into the drawing room. Mr Darcy enters and

bows to Mr Bingley. He starts to talk in earnest. Bingley

looks stunned by what Darcy is relaying to him. We

witness the dumbshow of Darcy confessing that he has

wronged Jane Bennet.

112 EXT. LONGBOURN - DAY. 112

Lydia and Wickham are leaving. Mr Bennet stands at a

distance. Mrs Bennet sobs as Lydia climbs onto the

carriage.

Write to me often, my dear'.

Wickham takes his leave of Elizabeth.

Please relay my affections to the Darcy's

on your next acquaintance. I am sure he

will be pleased to hear things have

worked out so well.

He joins Lydia.

(through the window)

Married women never have much time for

writing. My sisters may write to me!

They'll have nothing else to do.

The Mrs Bennet and the girls watch as the carriage drives

away.

104.

Oh there is nothing so bad as parting

with ones children! One seems so forlorn

without them.

That is the consequence of marrying a

daughter. It must make you better

satisfied that your other four are

single.

113 EXT. MERYTON VILLAGE - DAY. 113

Elizabeth and Jane are out shopping with their mother and

sisters. Their housekeeper, Mrs Hill, comes out of the

butchers shop.

Did you hear the news, madam? Mr Bingley

is returning to Netherfield.

A stunned silence. Lizzie glances at Jane. She blushes.

Mr Bingley?

Mrs Hill indicates a woman in the butcher's shop.

Mrs Nichols is ordering a haunch Of pork,

for she expects him tomorrow.

Tomorrow?

Not that I care about it. Mr Bingley is

nothing to us and I'm sure I never want

to see him again.

No, we shall not mention a word about it.

(comes back to Mrs Hill)

Is it quite certain he is coming?

Yes, madam. I believe he is alone; his

sister remains in town.

Huh! Come along, girls.

Their mother goes into the draper's shop. Jane pauses at

the threshold.

105.

It's all right, Lizzie. I'm just glad

that he comes alone, because then we

shall see less of him.

Not that I'm afraid of myself, but I

dread other people's remarks.

A brave smile. Lizzie, of course, is not convinced in the

slightest. They go into the shop.

114 EXT. LONGBOURN -- DAY. 114

Mr Bingley rides towards Longbourn, a look of slight

trepidation in his eyes. Darcy now comes into view riding

along side him. They cross the moat bridge.

115 INT. DRAWING ROOM - LONGBOURN -- DAY. 115

Mary is practising her scales. Jane and Elizabeth are

sitting at their work, with their mother. Kitty rushes

in.

He is here! He is here, he's at the door!

Oh my goodness! Everybody act naturally.

Jane completely freezes. Everybody else goes into a

fluster.

MRS BENNET (CONT'D)

Whatever you do, do not appear

overbearing.

Kitty looks out through a window.

Look. There's someone with him. Mr whats

his name. The pompous one from before.

Elizabeth looks through the window at Darcy, her heart

leaps to her mouth.

Mr Darcy indeed! The very insolence of

0 0 it. What does he think of coming here?

Elizabeth returns to her seat and sits down, heavily. Mrs

Bennet hurries over to Jane and pinches her cheeks.

Mama!

106.

a (to Mary - who is still

Stop that and sit down! Find yourself

some work! Oh Lord.

They sit there, frozen, pretending to sew. The drawing

room door opens and Mrs Hill shows in the two men. They

bow. Bingley smiles warmly at Jane, who blushes.

Elizabeth glances at Darcy. His face is strained. Mrs

Bennet is all smiles for Bingley. She ignores Darcy.

MRS BENNET (CONT'D)

How very glad we are to see you, Mr

Bingley! There are a great many changes

since you went away. Miss Lucas is

married and settled. And one of my own

daughters too, you will have seen it in

the papers though it was not put in as it

ought to have been. Very short, nothing

about her family.

I did hear of it, and offer my

congratulations.

- but it's very hard to have my Lydia

taken away from me. Mr Wickham has been

transferred to Newcastle, where ever that

is. Thank heaven he has some friends.

Mrs Bennet shoots a frosty glance at Mr Darcy. This is

more than Elizabeth can bare.

Do you hope to stay long in the country,

Mr Bingley?

Just a few weeks. For the shooting.

When you have killed all your own birds,

Mr Bingley, I beg you will come here and

shoot as many as you please.

Thank you -

- Mr Bennet will be vastly happy to

oblige you, and will save all the best of

a the covies for you.

107,

Excellent.

Are you well, Mr Darcy?

Quite well, thank you.

Well, I hope the weather stays fine, for

your sport.

I return to town tomorrow.

So soon?

My Jane looks well, does she not?

Mr-Bingley stands up abruptly.

She does indeed. Well, I must be going, I

suppose. Darcy -

Darcy cannot quite believe it. He gives Bingley a harsh

stare, Bingley has not completed his task.

BINGLEY (CONT`D)

It was very pleasant to see you all

again. Elizabeth, Miss Jane..

Bingley can almost not bear to look Jane in the eye as he

acknowledges them all very briefly and bolts for the

door. Mrs Bennet fusses around him.

You must come again. For when you were in

town last winter you promised to take a

family dinner with us. I have not forgot

you see. At least three courses.

Bingley and Darcy take their leave, leaving the Bennets

sitting in silence all looking at once another. Kitty is

fit to burst out laughing, Elizabeth and Jane horrified

by the awkward visit.

116 EXT. THE LANE - NEAR LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 116

a Bingley is pacing backwards and forwards in despair

muttering to himself. Darcy looks at him in extreme

frustration.

108.

Oh damn, damn, buggery, damn.

What were you thinking of?

It's as if Bingley has not heard. He keeps pacing up and

down.

Damn and blast, oh buggery, damn.

117 INT. DRAWING ROOM - LONGBOURN - DAY. 117

The girls are now spread around the room. Jane in.

despair.

Well, I'm glad that's over. We can now

meet as indifferent acquaintances.

Oh yes? Jane, take care.

You cannot think me so weak as to be in

danger now.

I think you are in great danger of making

him as much in love with you as ever.

I'm sorry, though, that he came with Mr

Darcy.

Oh Jane, I have acted so stupidly. Had I

been in love, I could not have been more

blind!

What do you mean?

The door bell rings.

(at the window)

It is him. He's back. He's come again.

a A stunned reaction.

109.

Everyone has regained their decorous positions. They hear

Bingley's voice at the door and he comes in very

awkwardly. He smiles. His face is crimson with

embarrassment.

I, erm, I know this is all very

embarrassing, but I would like to request

the privilege of speaking to Miss Jane -

They all look at him.

- alone.

Girls. Everybody to the kitchen.

Immediately. Oh, Mr Bingley. It is so

good to see you again so soon.

She ushers everyone out, not before squeezing Jane's

hand. Now Jane and Bingley are alone, facing each other

with extreme embarrassment.

Miss Bennet, you have been the victim of

a huge misunderstanding. Suffice to say,

I have been an unmitigated and

comprehensive ass. And therefore, I would

like to ask you -

118 INT. HALLWAY - LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 118

Mrs Bennet, Kitty, Mary and Mr Bennet are all jostling

for a position at the door in order to overhear events

inside.

Ssssshhh!

Elizabeth is apart from her family. She cannot bear to be

there. She walks down the corridor and out of the house

into the garden. Through a window she sees Bingley on one

knee, her eyes fill with tears as she walks away from the

house.

- CUT TO:

119 INT. DRAWING ROOM - LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 119

a Bingley looks at Jane, desperately worried. A pause.

a Yes. A hundred times - yes.

Mrs Bennet and the girls throw open the double doors to

the drawing room and come crashing in. Bingley and Jane

beam at them.

Thank the Lord for that. I thought it

would never happen.

120 EXT. GARDEN -- LONGBOURN -- THE SAME. 120

Elizabeth is sat under a tree crying.

121 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - OVER LOOKING LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 121

Darcy looks down at Longbourn.

122 INT. BEDROOM - LONGBOURN - NIGHT. 122

Mr Bennet and Mrs Bennet are in bed.

I am sure they will do well together,

their tempers are much alike. They will

be cheated assiduously by their servants,

and be so generous with the rest, they

will always exceed their income.

Exceed their income? He has five thousand

a year! I knew she could not be so

beautiful for nothing.

The camera moves through to another bedroom - where Mary

is reading a book out loud to Kitty - then to yet another

123 INT. ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT. 123

Jane and Elizabeth lie in bed.

He has made me so happy. You know, he. was

totally ignorant of my being in town last

spring!

How did he account for it?

He thought me indifferent!

Unfathomable.

No doubt poisoned by his pernicious

sister.

Bravo! That is the most unforgiving

speech you've ever made.

Oh Lizzie, if I could but see you so

happy. If there were such another man for

you!

There is a noise outside.

Perhaps, if I have very good luck, I may

meet with another Mr Collins in time.

What is that?

More noise, it sounds like a carriage, then a loud

banging on the door downstairs. The girls look at each

other.

124 INT. DOWNSTAIRS -- LONGBOURN - NIGHT. 12.4-

Mr Bennet, Mrs Bennet and the girls lit by only candles

have gathered. The door bangs again.

Maybe he's changed his mind.

Timidly, Mr Bennet opens the door revealing a wide-eyed

Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Everyone gasps.

Lady Catherine!

Lady Catherine does not acknowledge her, but comes in

uninvited, inspecting the assembled company of aghast

Bennets.

(to Mrs Bennet)

And these are your daughters, I suppose.

All but one, the youngest has been lately

married your ladyship. And my eldest was

only proposed to yesterday afternoon.

You have a very small garden, madam.

112.

a I am sure it is nothing compared to

Rosings, but it is larger than Sir

William Lucas's, I can assure you.

Could I offer you a cup of tea, perhaps?

Absolutely not! I must speak to Miss

Elizabeth alone, as a matter of complete

urgency.

The Bennets all look at each other", bewildered by this

strange turn of events.

125 INT. DRAWING ROOM - LONGBOURN - NIGHT. 125

Elizabeth leads the way into the drawing room - lights an

oil lamp. Lady Catherine walks in. The door closes behind

them.

You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to

understand why I am`here.

a Lit only by the oil lamp Lady Catherine resembles a

flickering ghoul.

Indeed you are mistaken. I can not

account for this honour at all.

Miss Bennet, I warn you, I am not to be

trifled with. A report of a most alarming

nature has reached me that you intend to

be united with my nephew, Mr Darcy.

Elizabeth stares at her, amazed.

LADY CATHERINE (CONT'D)

I know this to be a scandalous falsehood,

though not wishing to injure him by

supposing it possible, I instantly set

off to make my sentiments known.

If you believed it impossible, I wonder

you took the trouble of coming so far.

To hear it contradicted, Miss Bennet.

113.

Your coming here will be rather a

confirmation, surely, if indeed such a

report exists.

If? Do you then pretend to be ignorant of

it? Has it not been industriously

circulated by yourself?

I have never heard of it.

And can you declare there is no

foundation for it?

I do not pretend to possess equal

frankness with your ladyship. You may ask

the questions, which I may not choose to

answer.

This is not to be borne. Has my nephew

made you an offer of marriage?

Your Ladyship declared it to be

impossible.

Let me be understood. Mr Darcy is engaged

to my daughter. Now what have you to say?

Only this - if that is the case you can

have no reason to suppose he will make an

offer to me.

Oh obstinate girl! This union has been

planned since their infancy. Do you think

it can be prevented by a young woman of

inferior birth, of no importance in the

world and wholly unallied to his family?

Whose own sister's elopement resulted in

the scandalously patched-up marriage,

only achieved at the expense of your

uncle? Heaven and earth, are the shades

of Pemberly to be thus polluted? Now tell

me once and for all, are you engaged to

him?

I am not.

114.

And will you promise never to enter into

such an engagement?

I will not. And I certainly never shall.

Allow me to say, the arguments which you

have supported this extraordinary

application have been as frivolous as the

application was ill-judged. You have,

insulted me in every possible method and

can now have nothing further to say. I

must ask you to leave immediately. Good

night.

Elizabeth throws open.the door, revealing the family

outside.

I have never been thus treated in my

entire life.

Lady Catherine storms past the family and out into the

night. Elizabeth is standing shaking with the excitement

of having stood so firmly up for herself.

Lizzie, what on earth is going on?

Just a small misunderstanding.

She walks past them to bed.

Lizzie!

For once in your life. Just leave me

alone.

Everyone looks aghast at Elizabeth's reaction.

126 INT. BEDROOM - LONGBOURN - NIGHT. 126

Jane is fast asleep. Elizabeth unable to sleep. She

quietly climbs out of bed and creeps out of the room.

127 INT. DRAWING ROOM - LONGBOURN -- THE SAME. 127

Elizabeth sits alone downstairs, thinking. Outside we see

dawn is breaking.

115.

128 EXT. LONGBOURN - DAWN. 128

Elizabeth creeps out into the garden and wanders around

through the early morning mist, as the sun starts to

rise.

129 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE OVERLOOKING LONGBOURN - THE SAME. 129

Elizabeth walks out into the open countryside. The mists

are starting to evaporate. From out of the mist in the

distance a figure emerges. Her heart misses a beat. She

is alone, vulnerable. Then she sees it is Darcy.

Mr Darcy!

What are you doing out here so early?

I could not sleep.

Me neither. I have been up.most of the

night.

Elizabeth hardly knows how to react at this unexpected

meeting. Rather politely she thanks Mr Darcy.

Mr Darcy, I must thank you for your

unexampled generosity to both my sisters.

I know what kindnesses you have done for

poor Lydia and suspect your hand in the

happy resolution for Jane also.

I am alarmed that you know of what I have

been so in earnest to keep silent. But

you must know that your happiness was one

of my prime inducements.

Elizabeth looks at Darcy.

DARCY (CONT`D)

I know you are too generous to trifle

with me. I believe you spoke with my Aunt

last night, and it has taught me to hope

as I had scarcely allowed myself before.

If your feelings are still what they were

last April, tell me so at once. My

affections and wishes are unchanged, but

one word from you will silence me

forever.

116.

Elizabeth is silent.

If, however, your feelings have

changed...

Elizabeth gazes at him.

I would have to tell you, you have

bewitched me body and soul and I love and

love and love you. And never wish to be

parted from you from this day on.

Elizabeth looks at him. She does not say a word. Darcy is

staring at her for a reply. A tear rolls down Elizabeth's

cheek.

I am very happy to inform you that not

only have my sentiments changed there are

no other words which could give me

greater pleasure.

Darcy stares at her. They both start to cry. Darcy very,

very slowly and gently touches her face. She closes her

eyes. They kiss. She touches his face with her hand, the

kiss becomes passionate.

130 INT. DRAWING ROOM - LONGBOURN - DUSK. 130

The place is in an uproar. Bingley, Jane, Mary, Kitty, Mr

and Mrs Bennet are all gathered, fretting terribly about

Elizabeth's whereabouts. Through a window we see

Elizabeth lead Darcy along the duck board plank across

the moat. Elizabeth enters the house, everybody starts.

Lizzie, where have you been. We thought

something had happened to you.

Darcy follows Elizabeth in.

MRS BENNET (CONT'D)

Mr Darcy! What on earth are you doing

here?

Elizabeth takes Mr Darcy's hand.

Mr Darcy has come to speak with Papa.

Everyone is stunned.

117.

a 131 INT. HALLWAY/LIBRARY - LONGBOURN - DAY. 131

Elizabeth paces outside the door of the library, waiting.

After a while Darcy emerges, he gives Elizabeth the

briefest of smiles and leaves the door open. Elizabeth

walks in. Her father is in a state of shock.

Lizzie, are you out of your senses? I

thought you hated the man.

No, Papa.

He is rich, to be sure, and you will have

more fine carriages than Jane. But will

that make you happy?

Have you no other objection than your

belief in my indifference?

None at all. We all know him to be a

proud, unpleasant sort of fellow, but

this would be nothing if you really liked

him.

(tears in her eyes)

I do like him!

I love him! He's not proud. It's I who's

been prejudiced, who didn't realize ...

You don't know him, Papa...if I told you

what he's really like. What he's done.

What has he done?

132 EXT. GARDEN -- LONGBOURN - DAY. 132

Darcy, in an agony, paces up and down the lawn. He looks

at the library window.

CUT BACK TO:

a 133 INT. LIBRARY - LONGBOURN - DAY. 133

Mr Bennet stares at his daughter.

118.

Good Lord. I must pay him back.

(shakes her head)

No, you mustn't tell anyone! He wouldn't

want it.

We misjudged him, me more than anyone. In

every way,not just in this matter. I've

been so blind. He's been so blind! About

Jane, about so many things. Then so have

I...

You see, he and I are so similiar...we're

both so stubborn...

Oh Papa...

Mr Bennet gazes at his daughter-. He still can't quite

take it in.

You do love him, don't you?

Elizabeth nods.

a Very much.

He looks at her earnestly, searching her face. He loves

his daughter very deeply. What he sees leaves him in no

doubt.

I cannot believe that anyone can deserve

you, but it seems I am over-ruled. So I

heartily give my consent.

Elizabeth jumps up and puts her arms around him.

I could not have parted with you, my

Lizzie, to any one less worthy.

Oh thank you!

She starts to rush out.

(calls out after her)

And if any young men come for Mary or

Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at

a leisure.

119.

a 134 EXT. PEMBERLY - NIGHT. 134

We move through a vast wedding party, following Elizabeth

and Darcy. We meet all our characters. Lydia and Wickham

are missing. Let everyone have an end.

Darcy and Elizabeth kiss, then Darcy pulls Elizabeth off

into the shadows. We see them disappear into the park.

Coming close, we see them in the moonlight. It's Darcy

and Elizabeth. Deer turn to gaze at them. The music fades

as they walk further from the house, up the hill, past

the outcrops of rocks. An owl hoots. Darcy turns to

Elizabeth and smiles.

Allow me, Mrs Darcy.

He puts out his hand. She takes it. He helps her up the

rocks. When they get to the top they sit there, side by

side, and gaze at the distant lights of Pemberley.

How did it begin?

I cannot fix the hour, or the spot, or

the look. It was too long ago and I was

in the middle before I knew it had begun.

Now be sincere, did you admire me for my

impertinenc?

For the liveliness of your mind, I did.

You may as well call it impertinence,

though make a virtue of it by all means.

My good qualities are under your

protection, and you are to exaggerate -

them as much as possible. And, in return,

it belongs to me to find occasions for

teasing and quarrelling with you as often

as maybe... and I shall begin directly...

We draw back-their figures diminish, smaller and

smaller under the immense, star-spangled sky. . .Fainter

and fainter, the sound of music and laughter...

135 FADE TO BLACK... 135

THE END.

