THE PRIVATE LIFE OF SHERLOCK HOLMES

THE PRIVATE LIFE OF SHERLOCK HOLMES

FADE IN:

BRASS PLAQUE - DAY

Engraved on it are the words: COX & CO., Bankers.

Reflected in its shiny surface are double-decker red

buses, and other present-day London traffic.

INT. BANK VAULT - DAY

An iron gate opens, and two bank guards come in. One of

them switches on the lights. On the shelves which line

the walls are dusty strong-boxes, document cases, wrapped

packages, etc. The guards move along the shelves

searching for something.

The guards find a battered tin dispatch box with the name

JOHN H. WATSON, M.D., painted on it. They remove it from

the shelf, set it down on a table. The box is tied with

heavy cord, the knots sealed with wax. Strung on the

cord is the key.

While one of the guards dusts the box off, the other cuts

the cord with a pair of scissors. He then inserts the

key in the lock, turns it, raises the lid -- revealing

the dusty contents of the box.

OVER THIS, SUPERIMPOSE THE MAIN TITLE.

The guards now start to remove the objects from the box,

one at a time: -- A daguerreotype of Holmes, standing,

and Watson, seated, in a a stiff studio pose; Holmes'

deerstalker hat, his curved pipe, his magnifying glass;

Watson's stethoscope, Holmes' revolver; a small enamel

sign with the number 221B; a pair of handcuffs;

a sheet of music paper which is unrolled to disclose a

violin piece composed by Holmes, titled FOR ILSE von H.;

A pocket watch, the back of which is opened to reveal a

photograph of Gabrielle Valladon; a signet ring bearing

the initials S.H. -- under which is concealed a compass;

a worn morocco case -- inside which is an early-model

hypodermic syringe; a crystal ball which, when shaken,

produces a snowstorm - and when the snow settles, we see

a bust of Queen Victoria.

OVER THESE OBJECTS, THE REST OF THE CREDIT TITLES ARE

SUPERIMPOSED.

The last item out of the box   is a thick stack of

manuscript paper, bound with   green ribbon. The guard

undoes the ribbon, dusts off   the top page, as CAMERA

MOVES IN CLOSER.  Written in   ink, in the cursive

penmanship of the period, is   the following paragraph:

OVER THIS, WE HEAR THE VOICE OF DR. WATSON, reading the

text.

YORKSHIRE LANDSCAPE - DAY

A passenger train of the late Nineteenth Century is

chugging through the early morning mist.

INT. COMPARTMENT - MOVING TRAIN - DAWN

There are but two passengers in the compartment --

sitting by the window, facing each other. In fact they

are dozing. One wears a deerstalker and an Inverness

cape; the other is in a dark overcoat and a black bowler,

a furled umbrella between his legs, a medical bag on the

seat beside him. The rest of their luggage is on the

racks above. They are, of course, SHERLOCK HOLMES and

DR. JOHN H. WATSON. This being 1887, they are thirty-

three and thirty-five respectively.

EXT. BAKER STREET - DAY

A hansom cab, with Holmes' and Watson's luggage strapped

to the rack on top, is proceeding down the busy street.

The cab draws up   in front of 221B. The front door opens

and MRS. HUDSON,   a plump, motherly woman in her fifties,

wearing an apron,   hurries down the steps. She greets

Holmes and Watson   warmly as they alight.

The cabbie   starts to unload their luggage. As Holmes,

Watson and   Mrs. Hudson proceed inside, CAMERA TRAVELS UP

THE FACADE   OF THE BUILDING, past the number 221B, to the

bay window   on the second floor.

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - DAY

It's all there -- the fireplace, the coal scuttle, the

Persian slipper with the tobacco; the velvet wing chair,

the basket chair with the writing-arm, the couch with the

cushions; the sideboard with the tantalus and the

gasogene; the acid-stained deal-topped table with Holmes'

chemical equipment on it, the dining table, the small

Moorish table; the bookshelves and the violin case; the

gas fixtures and the oil lamps; the dumbwaiter connecting

with the kitchen in the basement; and Holmes' desk, piled

high with papers, clippings, research material, etc.

Holmes is pulling up the window shades. Watson has

removed his hat and coat, and is putting his medical bag

down on the sideboard; the cabbie, having deposited their

luggage, is just leaving.

He has picked up a dagger, starts opening his mail, which

is on the dining table.

She exits into one of the bedrooms.   Watson has now taken

a magazine out of an envelope.

On the cover is a colored illustration from the story,

featuring in obligatory Inverness and deerstalker.

Very impressive.

Would you like to see how I treated it?

I can hardly wait. I'm sure I'll find

out all sorts of fascinating things about

the case that I never knew before.

Just what do you mean by that?

Oh, come now, Watson, you must admit that

you have a tendency to over-romanticize.

You have taken my simple exercises in

logic and embellished them, exaggerated

them...

I deny the accusation.

You have described me as six-foot-four,

whereas I am barely six-foot-one.

A bit of poetic license.

You have saddled me with this improbable

costume, which the public now expects me

to wear.

That's not my doing.

Blame it on the illustrator.

You've made me out to be a violin

virtuoso. Here --

-- a request from the Liverpool Symphony

to appear as soloist in the Mendelssohn

Concerto.

Oh, really?

The fact is that I could barely hold my

own in the pit orchestra of a second-rate

music hall.

You're much too modest.

You have given the reader the distinct

impression that I am a misogynist.

Actually, I don't dislike women -- I

merely distrust them. The twinkle in the

eye and the arsenic in the soup.

It's those little touches that make you

colorful --

Lurid is more like it. You have painted

me as a hopeless dope addict -- just

because I occasionally take a five per

cent solution of cocaine.

A seven per cent solution.

Five per cent. Don't you think I'm aware

you've been diluting it behind my back?

As a doctor -- and as your friend -- I

strongly disapprove of this insidious

habit of yours.

He tosses the letter down is disgust.

He picks up the letter.

He has crossed to the desk, suddenly notices something.

Mrs. Hudson comes hurrying out of the bedroom.

She demonstrates with her thumb and forefinger.

He blows the feather away.

INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING

START on Holmes' foot, operating a bellows. CAMERA PANS

UP to the top of the chemistry table, on which an

elaborate apparatus of brass, glass and rubber tubing has

been set up. Inserted into the ends of the rubber tubes

are half a dozen cigarettes, four cigars of different

shapes and colors, and four pipes, all lit. Activated by

the bellows, they are puffing away like mad, wheezing

loudly and filling the screen with smoke. Seated at the

table is Holmes, in shirt-sleeves. Occasionally he

knocks off an ash onto a glass slide, studies it under a

microscope.

Watson, in a dressing gown, is sitting in the chair with

the writing arm, documenting the latest Holmes adventure

for Strand Magazine. The open mail has now been affixed

to the center of the wooden mantelpiece, with a dagger.

Mrs. Hudson is clearing the dinner dishes from the table,

and loading them onto the shelf of the dumbwaiter. The

accumulation of smoke in the room makes her cough.

She is now pulling on the rope which lowers the

dumbwaiter.

She exits, shutting the door. For a while, the two go on

working. Then Holmes rises abruptly from the chemistry

table.

Holmes has opened his violin case and taken out his

fiddle.

He has tucked the violin under his chin, starts to

improvise a nervous pent-up melody. There is nothing

amateurish about it -- he plays quite well.

Watson resumes working on his manuscript. Suddenly the

music stops. Watson looks up apprehensively. Holmes has

put down the violin, and is crossing to the sideboard.

He opens Watson's medical bag, takes out a bottle of

cocaine, starts toward his bedroom. Watson pushes the

writing arm to the side, rises from his chair.

Holmes   pays no   attention, continues into the bedroom.

Watson   crosses   to the open door. Inside the bedroom,

Holmes   has put   down the cocaine bottle on the washstand,

and is   rolling   up his left sleeve.

From a drawer he takes a morocco case, opens it, removes

a hypodermic syringe.

He has removed the stopper from the cocaine bottle, and

inserting the hypodermic needle into it, starts to draw

up the liquid.

EXT. BAKER STREET - DAY

It is raining. A bus comes down the street, the open top

deck sprouting umbrellas like black mushrooms.

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - DAY

Rain beats on the windows.    Holmes and Watson are in the

middle of an argument.

He starts into the bedroom.

He takes the hypodermic out of the drawer in the

washstand, starts back into the living room with it.

As Watson glares at him, the door opens and Mrs. Hudson

comes bustling in. Holmes hides the hypodermic behind

his back.

She opens the door of the dumbwaiter, starts to pull it

up.

Mrs. Hudson sighs, exits into Watson's bedroom.

Watson is glancing around the room, searching for

something.

Watson picks up the Moorish table, disclosing the medical

bag, standing on end. He sets the bag down on the

fender, opens it.

He takes out three bottles of narcotics, puts them on the

mantel.

He snaps his bag shut, carries it toward his bedroom.

Watson disappears into the bedroom, slamming the door.

Holmes looks after him, then looks at the bottles of dope

on the mantelpiece. He starts pacing. After a moment he

stops at the chemistry table, studies the assorted

glassware on the shelves above.

INT. WATSON'S BEDROOM - DAY

There are two open valises on the bed. Watson is moving

around the room, collecting various odds and ends, while

Mrs. Hudson packs his clothes.

Mrs. Hudson takes a clean handkerchief from the open

valise, blows her nose.

From the living room comes the sound of a revolver shot.

Mrs. Hudson screams and Watson looks off in alarm. Then

he races out of the room, diploma in hand, followed by

Mrs. Hudson.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

As they burst into the room, they see Holmes sitting on

the stool beside the chemistry table, a revolver in his

hand. He has shattered one of the narcotics bottles on

the mantelpiece, and is aiming at a second one.

Holmes fires, smashing the second bottle. As Mrs. Hudson

takes a step forward, he waves her away with the gun.

Watson jerks Mrs.   Hudson back as Holmes lets go with

another shot. The    bullet disposes of the third bottle,

splattering glass   and liquid all over the place. Holmes

rises calmly from   the stool, crosses to the desk, puts

the revolver away   in a drawer.

She points up to a spot near the ceiling. Neatly traced

in bullet holes are the initials V.R., with a small crown

above them.

Watson is looking at Holmes with a little smile on his

face.

A bewildered Mrs. Hudson goes back into the bedroom.

Watson crosses to the fireplace, picks up the whiskbroom

and the coal shovel, starts cleaning up the broken glass.

He notices the violin, which has been splattered with the

liquid from the shattered bottle, picks it up.

He takes the instrument, and dabbing it with a

handkerchief, carries it toward the violin case.

With a side-glance at the busy Watson, he opens the

violin case. Neatly stashed away around the edges are

the three original bottles of narcotics. The ones he

shot up, of course, were substitutes from the chemistry

set. He places the violin carefully among the bottles,

closes the case, snaps the locks. As he moves off, we

STAY on the violin case.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Watson, in his dressing gown, is sitting at the table,

finishing his coffee. In front of him is a letter, on

blue note-paper, and a pair of theatre tickets.

Watson sets down his coffee cup, picks up the letter and

the tickets, rises from his chair. He starts to pace --

addressing Holmes, who is off-scene.

He moves towards the door of --

HOLMES' BEDROOM - DAY

Holmes is sitting in a hip-bath with a high back, soaping

himself. Watson appears in the doorway.

INT. THEATRE - NIGHT

START ON THE CONDUCTOR, in the orchestra pit,   as he gives

the downbeat for the second acto music of SWAN   LAKE.

CAMERA PULLS BACK TO INCLUDE THE STAGE, with a   mechanical

sway crossing the mist-shrouded lake. CAMERA    CONTINUES

TO PULL BACK, REVEALING Holmes and Watson, in   evening

clothes, occupying a box in the upper tier.

On the stage now, the hunters appear, carrying lighted

torches.

BOX

Watson trains his opera glasses on the stage, Holmes

stifles a yawn.

STAGE

PETROVA, as the Queen of the Swans, makes her entrance to

loud applause. She is in her forties, but splendidly

preserved, undoubtedly the greatest ballerina around.

BOX

Watson nudges Holmes, who has dozed off.

He hands the glasses to Holmes, who focuses them

indifferently on the stage.

STAGE

Petrova is making an exit, backwards, on points.

BOX

Holmes lowers the glasses, returns them to Watson.

Watson resumes watching the stage through the glasses.

STAGE

Petrova and the dancer playing the Prince go into the

famous pas-de-deux.

BOX

Watson enjoying himself immensely, Holmes sitting there

dourly. The red plush curtain at the rear of the box

parts, and a man in evening clothes and a top hat enters.

He is in his middle fifties, extremely soigne, and

somewhat sinister. His name is ROGOZHIN, and he is

Russian. Holmes and Watson look around.

Holmes and Watson start to get up, but he motions them

back into their chairs.

He glances toward the stage.

STAGE

The pas-de-deux finished, to a rousing ovation.

BOX

Rogozhin rises, turns to Holmes.

With a parting look he exits, pulling the plush curtains

closed.

STAGE

The performance is over, the curtain is up, the party is

on. Tables have been set up, with caviar, vodka and

champagne. The members of the orchestra are now playing

balalaikas, and crew and cast (the ballerinas still in

costume, the male dancers in tights) seem in high

spirits.

Holmes and Watson, in silk hats with canes, appear from

the wings, stop, survey the scene. Watson's eyes are

shining with anticipation. In contrast, Holmes' face is

sober and quizzical.

Rogozhin spots the two, detaches himself from a group,

hurries over to join them.

Rogozhin turns to a group of ballerinas, claps his hands.

Half a dozen ballerinas descend on on Dr. Watson. They

are giggling and chattering in Russian. Rogozhin leads

Holmes off, while Watson takes in the bevy of beauties

around him.

He pats a couple of the po-pos with his cane.

BACKSTAGE

Rogozhin is leading Holmes toward Madame Petrova's

dressing room.

They have now reached the door of Madame's dressing room.

Rogozhin knocks. The door is opened by an elderly

Russian maid.

Rogozhin leads Holmes inside.    The maid steps out, shuts

the door.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

It is small, elegant and sensuous. There is vodka in an

ice-bucket, next to a Recamier chaise, a paravent, masses

of flowers, and finally Madame Petrova, still in costume,

sitting at a dressing table with multiple mirrors,

undoing her hair. Candles, in two elaborate candleabra,

give Madame's face a special glow.

She extends her hand, and Holmes takes it.

He kisses her hand. Petrova appraises him from head to

toe, and back again.

Petrova rises, crosses to the paravent.

Petrova is now behind the paravent, undressing, only her

head visible.

Rogozhin picks up a violin case, opens it.

Holmes holds the violin up, peers through one of the

sound holes.

Petrova emerges from behind the paravent, in a brocade

dressing gown.

She drapes herself on the chaise.

All right.   I will pour vodka and

explain.

Mr. Holmes, what you have seen tonight is

last and positively final performance of

Madame Petrova. She is retiring.

What a shame.

She has been dancing since she was three

years old. And after all, she is now

thirty-eight.

I must say she doesn't look thirty-eight.

That is because she is   forty-nine.

So Madame has decided   to leave ballet and

spend life bringing up   her child.

How admirable.

Problem now is to find father.

Oh?   Is he missing?

Correct.

And that's why you called me in?

Also correct. We must have father,

because without father, how can there be

child?

Holmes' eyes wander slowly toward Petrova.    She raises

her glass.

Petrova and Rogozhin down their vodka bottoms up.    Holmes

takes one swallow, then stops.

While Rogozhin refills Petrova's glass and his own,

Holmes takes another tentative sip.

Madame wants to know how soon you can be

ready.

Ready?

To leave for Venice. All arrangements

have been made. You will spend one week

there with Madame...

Well, this is all very flattering. But

surely there are other me -- better men --

To tell you truth, you were not first

choice. We considered Russian writer,

Tolstoi --

That's more like it.   The man's a genius.

Too old... Then we considered the

philosopher, Nietzsche --

Absolutely first-rate mind...

Too German... And we considered

Tschaikowski --

Oh, you couldn't go wrong with

Tschaikowski --

We could -- and we did.   It was

catastrophe.

Why?

You don't know? Because Tschaikowski --

how shall put it? Women not his glass of

tea.

Pity, that.

Skazhite jemu chto je otchen dovolna etim

resheniem.

Madame is very happy with final choice.

Madame mustn't be too hasty.   She must

remember I'm an Englishman.

So?

You know what they say about us. If

there's one thing more deplorable than

our cooking, it's our love-making. We

are not exactly the most romantic of

people --

Perfect. We don't want sentimental

idiots -- falling in love, committing

suicide. One week in Venice -- she goes

back to St. Petersburg with baby -- you

go back to London with fiddle.

An equitable arrangement.

About my medical history -- when you

asked me -- I neglected to mention a

small detail. There is hemophilia in my

family. We're all bleeders.

On govorit, chto v jevo semie stradajut

ghemofilijei.

Pust nie bezpokoitsa.    Ja ostrighu sebe

noghti.

Before Holmes can answer, the door opens and Watson

sticks his head in. He is flushed and slightly

inebriated, and there is a flower tucked behind his ear.

From off comes the SOUND of wild balalaika music.

He hurries off, shutting the door.

Holmes is still looking at the door where Watson exited,

an idea forming in his mind.

Maybe a slight one.       You see, I am not a

free man.

Not free?   You are a bachelor.

A bachelor -- living with another

bachelor -- for the last five years.

Five very happy years.

What is it you are trying to tell me?

I hoped I could avoid the subject. But

some of us -- through a cruel caprice of

Mother Nature --

Get to point.

The point is that Tschaikowski is not an

isolated case.

You mean, you and Dr. Watson -- ?

He is your glass of tea?

If you want to be picturesque about it.

Chto on govorit? Pri chom tut

Chaikovsky?

On pederast.

Jescho odin? Eto stanovitsa odnoobrasno!

Kakoi vi idiot!

He takes her limp hand, kisses it.   Then he crosses to

the door.

He exits.   Rogozhin starts to pour himself another glass

of vodka.   Petrova slaps the glass out of his hand.

STAGE

The party has built into a real wingding by now. It's

wild -- drinking, laughing, singing. Everybody is turned

on -- especially Watson. He is dancing with a dozen of

the ballerinas to madly accelerating balalaika music.

Flower behind ear, hair mussed, tie undone, short of

breath -- he is in paradise.

Holmes makes his way through the revelers, approaches

Watson.

He waves goodbye, and goes on swirling dizzily with the

girls. Holmes puts on his silk hat and leaves.

A shaken Rogozhin comes up to the buffet, pours himself a

stiff drink of vodka. As he drinks his eyes follow the

dancing Watson balefully.

Watson spins off several of the girls, grabs another

group. His ex-partners wind up close to Rogozhin. He

whispers something to them. Their eyes widen, and they

stare at Watson with disbelief. Watson again switches

partners, and the first girls now whisper intensely to

those who just left the floor. The same reaction.

Watson, oblivious to all this, is whirling around with

another set of girls.

By now some of the girls who are in on the secret are

whispering to the male dancers in tights. Their reaction

is slightly different. They are seeing Watson in a new

light. And before Watson knows what's happening, he has

been abandoned by all the girls, and is joined first by

one pair then another pair of male dancers, till he is

dancing only with gay guys in tights. It gradually dawns

on Watson that there is something wrong with this state

of affairs. After some difficulty, he breaks away from

them.

Spotting Rogozhin, he crosses to him.   The girls shrink

away at his approach.

Watson looks around at the boys in tights, who are

standing in a half-circle, grinning at him insolently.

It is beginning to dawn on him. He pales.

He pours himself another vodka. Watson grabs the glass

away from him, downs it with a gulp.

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT

In contrast to the frenetic ambiance of the back-stage

party, the room seems doubly placid. Holmes, his dinner

coat replaced by a smoking jacket, is sitting in the wing

chair, having a quiet pipe after the evening's peculiar

adventure. Only the desk lamp is lit. From the street,

there is the sound of hurried, angry footsteps

approaching the house. Holmes turns his head languidly --

he knows who is coming.

EXT. BAKER STREET - NIGHT

An enraged Watson, cane and opera glasses in hand, and

the flower still behind his ear, is jogging down the

center of the deserted street.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Holmes rises casually, twists the wing chair so that its

back is to the door, crosses to the lamp on the desk,

turns the wick down. From off comes the sound of

Watson's key rattling in the front door lock.

STAIRCASE - 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT

The front door opens and Watson storms into the

vestibule.

He races up the stairs and across the landing, flings

open the door of the flat.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Watson, grim and breathless, stands in the open doorway.

Over the back of the wing chair, he sees smoke curling up

from Holmes' pipe.

No answer from Holmes. We now see -- but Watson does not

-- that the chair is occupied by a section of Holmes'

smoking machine, with the pipe attached.

Still no answer -- just a little pipe smoke drifting up

from the wing chair. Incensed, Watson raises the opera

glasses, tosses them toward the chair. There is a loud

thud, the pipe falls to the floor, then there is silence.

Watson suddenly becomes concerned.

He approaches the chair apprehensively, shoves  it aside --

and there on the floor is the smoking machine,  still

wheezing slightly. Watson picks it up, and his   eyes

travel to Holmes, standing in a shadowy corner,  working

the bellows with his foot.

He dashes the smoking machine to the floor.

He points to the flower behind Watson's ear. Watson

grabs the flower, hurls it into the fireplace.

No answer from Holmes.   Watson is becoming a little

concerned.

He starts toward his bedroom.

He walks into his bedroom, shutting the door.    Watson

takes a tentative step after him.

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT

There is a cheery fire burning in the grate. Holmes is

stretched out full-length on the couch, playing a set of

Corelli variations on his violin. Watson is in his usual

chair, reading the Evening Standard.

EXT. BAKER STREET - NIGHT

Wisps of fog swirl along the street, making yellow haloes

around street lamps.

Out of the mist comes a hansom cab, with the dim figure

of a woman visible in the passenger seat. The cab stops

in front of 221B, and the driver starts to get down.

From upstairs comes the faint sound of violin music.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Watson steps up to the window, pulls the curtain aside,

looks down toward the street.

EXT. 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT

The cabbie crosses the pavement, consults an address in

his hand, glances up at the number of the house, then

rings the bell.

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT

Watson turns away from the window, as the BELL downstairs

rings again. Holmes stops playing.

Watson crosses to the door, opens it, steps out.   Holmes

resumes playing Corelli.

VESTIBULE AND STAIRCASE - 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT

Mrs. Hudson, in a robe and night-cap, is talking to the

cabbie in the open street door when Watson appears on the

landing above.

He reaches out the door, pulls in the young lady in

question. She is in her early thirties, with strikingly

handsome features, but at the moment she is somewhat

worse for wear. She is wrapped in a blanket, her hair is

wet, and there is a bruise on her temple.

She is wearing and wedding ring and her name, we will

subsequently learn, is GABRIELLE.

The violin music stops o.s.   Watson has now reached the

foot of the stairs.

Holmes appears on the landing above, violin and bow in

his hand.

Watson examines the cardboard, nods.

Watson fishes some coins out of his pocket, hands them to

the cabbie.

He snatches the blanket off Gabrielle, revealing that her

dress is clinging to her damply.

He exits into the street, shutting the door.    Gabrielle

hugs herself for warmth.

He starts to lead her up the stairs.

EXT. BAKER STREET - NIGHT

The cabbie has tossed the blanket into the hansom, and is

mounting the driver's seat. Across the street, a man

steps out of the fog into a pool of light cast by one of

the street lamps. He is a craggy-faced Prussian of about

fifty, and his name is VON TIRPITZ. He looks up toward

the Holmes flat. As the hansom makes a U-turn and comes

abreast of him, he hops into the cab. The hansom

disappears into the fog.

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - NIGHT

Watson is leading Gabrielle to a chair by the fireplace.

Holmes is putting his violin down on the table.

He settles her in the chair. Holmes comes over, plucks

the square of cardboard from Watson's hand.

He starts to massage her wrists to restore her

circulation.

Holmes is examining the soggy cardboard. On one side is

their address, written in pencil. He turns it over,

disclosing some smudges of green ink on the other side.

Watson is now studying the bruise on Gabrielle's temple.

As Holmes fetches the medical bag, Gabrielle looks from

one to the other.

He has now taken some cotton and a bottle of antiseptic

out of the medical bag, and is swabbing her wound.

He glances down at Gabrielle's shoe, which has slipped

off her foot. Inside, slightly worn away, are the words:

LA FEMME ELEGANTE.

Holmes reaches behind her, turns back the collar of her

dress. Sewn inside is a label reading: BAZAAR MODERN,

Bruxelles.

Mrs. Hudson has come in with a loaded tea-tray, starts to

put it down on the table.

Watson takes the violin off the table, and she sets down

the tray.

He slips the wedding ring off her finger, picks up a

magnifying glass, examines it. It is made of copper, and

engraved on the inside is the inscription: Gabrielle -

Emile.

Gabrielle bursts into sobs.

She puts her arm around Gabrielle, who is still crying,

leads her into Watson's bedroom.

He gets a packet of white powder out of his medical bag,

and during the following, stirs a spoonful into her tea-

cup.

He picks up the cup of tea with the sedative in it,

carries it toward the door of his bedroom.

EXT. BAKER STREET - DAWN

The street lamps are still lit. A policeman, on patrol

duty, is strolling along the sidewalk, swinging his

truncheon. Suddenly he sees something up ahead.

Alarmed, he ducks into the doorway of a building,

flattens himself against the door.

From the opposite direction comes a horse-drawn water-

sprinkling wagon. The spray covers the sidewalks as well

as the street.

The policeman waits till the wagon is past, then steps

out of the doorway relieved, resumes his patrol.

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - DAWN

Watson is asleep on the couch, covered with a blanket.

He doesn't look as if he were in a very comfortable

position.

INT. HOLMES' BEDROOM - DAWN

Holmes, in a dressing gown, is standing by the window,

studying the square of cardboard with the green smudges

on it. His bed has not been slept in.

INT. WATSON'S BEDROOM - DAWN

Gabrielle is asleep in Watson's bed. The door opens

slowly, and Holmes looks in. He studies the sleeping

Gabrielle for a moment, then quietly pulls the door shut.

As the latch clicks into place, Gabrielle awakes and sits

up in bed, her back to CAMERA. She is nude.

She starts to get out of bed.

INT. HOLMES' BEDROOM - DAWN

Holmes is back in his room, once more examining the

cardboard by the light of the window. The door of

Watson's bedroom opens, and Gabrielle comes out.

Holmes looks up as Gabrielle appears in the open doorway.

As she extends her right hand to him, in a beckoning

gesture, Holmes notices something on the palm. He takes

her hand in his. There, in the same green ink as the

smudges on the cardboard, are what appear the be the

letters "I", "O", and Greek "E". Crossing to the wash-

stand, he picks up his magnifying shaving mirror, returns

to the bed, holds it up against the palm of Gabrielle's

hand.

Clearly reflected in the mirror is the reverse image of

the lettering on Gabrielle's palm -- the number "301".

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - DAY

The table is set for breakfast, and Mrs. Hudson is

opening the curtains, flooding the room with sunlight.

Then she moves over to the couch, where Watson is

sleeping in an awkward position.

Watson tries to rise, falls back with a moan.

Mrs. Hudson tentatively rests her knee on Watson's back.

Mrs. Hudson presses down harder, and there is a distinct

snap.

He seats himself at the table. Mrs. Hudson crosses to

the door of Watson's bedroom, opens it, starts inside,

then stops.

He jumps up from the table, joins Mrs. Hudson, looks past

her. The bed is empty. Gabrielle's clothes are in

evidence, but there is no sign of her.

Watson strides towards Holmes' bedroom.

He throws the door open, is about to step inside when he

sees something that makes him freeze.

INT. HOLMES' BEDROOM - DAY

Gabrielle is asleep in Holmes' bed, covered by just a

sheet, and obviously naked underneath. Holmes is not in

the room.

Mrs. Hudson comes up behind Watson, in the open doorway,

peers over his shoulder.

There is the sound of the hall door opening, and they

both turn.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Holmes breezes in, carrying a large suitcase, with

leather straps around it. Tucked under the straps is a

white parasol. And attached to the handle of the

suitcase is a cardboard tag with the number 301 on it, in

green.

He sets the suitcase down on the couch, as Watson and

Mrs. Hudson approach.

She exits huffily.

He picks up the butter-knife from the table, suddenly

turns back with a delayed reaction.

He starts to pry open the locks of the suitcase with the

butter-knife.

Holmes has now forced open the locks.

He opens the suitcase, lifts out the top piece of

clothing, holds it up -- a pink negligee with maribou

feathers.

They start sorting through the clothes in the suitcase.

Holmes removes a tied bundle of letters.

As he examines the envelope, Watson takes out a framed

photo of a rather attractive man of fifty.

Gabrielle appears from Holmes' bedroom wearing Holmes'

dressing gown. She is unsteady on her feet and somewhat

dazed. Holmes looks up.

Her eyes fall on the open suitcase.

Watson, pleased, twirls the end of his mustache.

Gabrielle sways slightly.

He helps her into a chair.

He hurries over to the breakfast table.

He picks it up from the chemistry table, hands it to her.

Gabrielle starts to put it on.

She indicates the bundle of letters. Holmes glances at

the return address on the back of the envelope.

He crosses to the desk, picks up a sheet of paper and an

envelope, then leads Gabrielle over to the chair with the

writing arm, seats her in it.

He folds the blank sheet of paper, and as Gabrielle

finishes addressing the envelope, he inserts the paper in

it, starts to seal it.

EXT. ASHDOWN STREET - DAY

This is a run-down district in the northwestern part of

London. On the corner is No. 32 -- a dilapidated

abandoned shop, with windows painted halfway up.

As CAMERA APPROACHES the building, we hear sawing from

inside.

INT. EMPTY SHOP - DAY

It is dusty, cobwebby, quite forbidding. In the rear

wall is a closed sliding door, indented about a foot into

the shop. Nearby stands a large, square object, covered

with a tarpaulin.

High up in the rear wall is a slanted skylight, fitted

with an iron grill. From outside, Holmes, in deerstalker

and Inverness, can be seen sawing through the iron bars.

Watson and Gabrielle are beside him.

Watson hands him the indicated tools. Holmes chips away

the cement from the top and bottom of the last bar, then

using it as a hinge, swings the grill open. He lets

himself through the skylight, drops to the floor. Watson

now helps Gabrielle through the skylight, lowers her

toward Holmes, who puts his arms around her waist, eases

her to the floor. For a brief moment he keeps his arms

around her. Watson has now squeezed through the

skylight.

He hands the tools to Holmes, jumps to the floor.

Gabrielle is looking around the shop.

Watson crosses to the square tarpaulin-covered object.

He lifts up one corner of the tarp -- and is greeted by a

loud twittering of birds.

What he has uncovered is a large cage -- and about a

hundred canaries, suddenly disturbed, are flapping around

unside.

Through the front window, the silhouette of a postman can

be seen approaching. He drops a letter through the slot

in the front door, moves on. The letter lands on a

section of floor which is solidly covered with dust --

except for a series of double tracks, running to the door

and curving back.

He reassembles the three tools, fitting each section into

another, to form a cane.

They become aware of a squeaking noise outside the rear

of the shop, growing louder as it gets nearer. The noise

stops, there is the sound of a lock turning, then the

rattle of a chain.

He leads Gabrielle and Watson toward the rear wall, right

next to the door. They flatten themselves with their

backs to the wall, just as the door slides open --

concealing them from view.

Revealed is the mews behind the shop. In the door is an

old BIDDY with straggly hair, sitting in a wheelchair.

In her lap are a bulky paper bag and a tin pitcher filled

with water. As she wheels herself inside, the unoiled

wheelchair squeaks loudly. She stops in front of the

cage, pulls on a rope which runs through a pulley in the

ceiling -- and the tarpaulin rises into the air, exposing

the canaries.

She pours grain from the paper bag into a feeder hanging

inside the cage, pours water from the pitcher into a

trough.

She cackles to herself, glances toward the front door.

She starts to wheel herself toward the front of the shop.

Through a crack in the door behind which our three are

hiding, we see Holmes' eye watching her.

The old woman reaches the letter, picks it up, studies

the address. Then she hears something, glances toward

the open rear door.

A horse-drawn wagon with a canvas top is just pulling

into the mews. Two CARTERS jump down from the driver's

seat, and one of them takes a small bird-cage from the

back of the wagon. As they start in through the door,

the old woman drops the letter into her lap, wheels

herself toward them.

He opens the door of the small cage, the bottom of which

is covered with newspaper, starts transferring canaries

into it from the large cage.

Through the crack in the door behind which he is hidden,

we see Holmes' eye studying the small bird cage, as the

canaries are being transferred into it.

We MOVE IN CLOSE on the small cage, and see the soiled

newspaper spread on the bottom. The masthead reads:

INVERNESS COURIER.

He closes the doors of the cages, picks up the small

cage. His companion indicates the letter in the woman's

lap.

She chuckles. The carriers exit into the mews, stash the

cage in the back of the wagon, mount the driver's seat.

She pulls the rope and the tarpaulin drops back over the

cage. Then she deposits the letter on top of the covered

cage, wheels herself out the rear door. As she slides it

shut from outside, our trio is revealed in their hiding

places behind the door. There is the sound of the chain

rattling, the lock snapping, and the squeaky wheels

moving off.

They step forward, and through the painted shop window

watch the old woman wheel herself down the street.

Gabrielle glances casually at the letter the old woman

left lying on top of the cage, and her expression

changes.

Holmes takes the letter, examines the envelope.    It is

indeed addressed to him.

With the saw-end of his cane, he slits the envelope open,

removes the enclosure, unfolds it. We see the letter in

his hand as he reads it out loud. The letterhead says:

DIOGENES CLUB, St. James's, London.

Watson automatcially obeys.

EXT. DIOGENES CLUB - DAY

Holmes, cane in hand, and Watson are swiftly ascending

the steps of a building with an imposing Palladian

facade. Beside the entrance is a discreet sign reading:

DIOGENES CLUB. Members Only. As they reach the top of

the steps, Watson stops Holmes.

He opens the door and they start in.

INT. LOBBY - DIOGENES CLUB - DAY

Dominating the lobby is a large statue of Queen Victoria.

Presiding over the reception desk is a uniformed PORTER

of military bearing, with one arm and a chest full of

campaign ribbons. Holmes and Watson stride in.

He holds out the pen to them, but they are gone. He

looks around in consternation, sees them hurrying up the

majestic staircase, steps out from behind his desk.

READING ROOM - DIOGENES CLUB - DAY

A huge room, with more marble than a mausoleum, and just

about as lively.

A dozen elderly Establishment types are sunk deep in the

leather armchairs, buried behind their copies of The

Times.  Holmes and Watson are proceeding toward the

study.  Suddenly Holmes stops beside one of the old

fossils, who has fallen asleep in his chair, The Times in

his lap, and between his fingers a lighted cigar with an

ash four inches long. Holmes picks up an ashtray, holds

it under the cigar -- just in time to catch the falling

ash. As  he replaces the ashtray, he scrutinizes the ash.

He and Watson continue toward the study door.

INT. STUDY - DIOGENES CLUB - DAY

It is a very elegant room   -- shelves of leather-bound

volumes reach to the high   ceiling, there are antique

terrestrial and celestial   gloves, scientific instruments

in polished brass, marble   busts of English statesmen.

MYCROFT HOLMES is standing at a refectory table, with his

back to the door, engaged in a curious operation. A

dusty bottle of wine is held in an ingeniously engineered

cradle. As he turns the crank, the bottle tilts forward

gently, and he decants the wine into three glasses

without disturbing the sediment.

Mycroft is an impressive figure of a man, seven years

older than Sherlock, impeccably dressed. Behind his

snobbish airs and bantering manner, one senses tremendous

reserves of strength and authority.

The door opens, and Holmes and Watson enter.

He brings over two of the glasses of wine to Holmes and

Watson.

Mycroft has moved back to the table and picked up his

glass of Madeira.

He and Watson sip their drinks, but not Holmes.

Mmmm.    Superb. How old did you say it

was?

1814.    One year before Waterloo.

One year before Waterloo?    Think of that.

You do know where Waterloo is, don't you,

Doctor?

Belgium, isn't it?

Quite.

And speaking of Belgium, it has come to

my attention that you are interested in

the whereabouts of a certain engineer.

Yes, I am.

Well, I can save you a lot of trouble.

I'd be grateful for any suggestion --

My suggestion is that you pursue it no

further.

Any particular reason?

Because it involves the national

security. We are handling this matter

ourselves.

We?   Who's we?

A YOUNG MAN in morning coat and striped trousers comes

in, holding a telegram. Mycroft crosses to him.

Mycroft has taken the telegram, and is coming forward

with it. The young man clears his throat.

Mycroft inserts a monocle in his eye, opens the telegram,

moves toward the desk reading it.

He exits. Holmes glances toward the telegram as Mycroft

puts it down on his desk. Catching his look, Mycroft

turns his telegram face-down, lets the monocle drop from

his eye.

In his nervousness he drops his bowler, which rolls along

the floor.

He and Watson retrieve their hats, move toward the door.

He tosses the cane to Holmes, who catches it.

EXT. BAKER STREET - DAY

Holmes and Watson are walking toward 221B.   Holmes is

whistling 'Loch Lomond.'

He resumes whistling. They start to cross the street,

skirting a parked hansom. Feeding the horse is the same

cabbie who fished Gabrielle out of the river, and in the

passenger seat is Von Tirpitz, the craggy-faced Prussian

we saw before. He stares fixedly after Holmes and

Watson.

Holmes and Watson come up to the door of 221B, and Watson

fishes his key out. Holmes is still whistling.

Watson turns the key in the lock, starts to open the

door, but is stopped by a chain on the inside. Through

the opening a revolver appears, aiming at them point-

blank.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - 221B BAKER STEET - DAY

Mrs. Hudson withdraws the gun, unhooks the chain. She is

also holding an embroidery hoop. She opens the door, and

Holmes and Watson step into the vestibule.

He starts up the stairs, followed by Watson.

No reaction from Holmes. As they reach the landing,

Gabrielle is waiting for them in the open doorway of

their flat.

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - DAY

Holmes and Watson step inside.

Holmes has put the gun down, and is crossing to one of

the book-shelves.

Holmes has taken a railway guide from the shelf and is

consulting it.

She hurries off toward Watson's room.

Holmes replaces the railway guide on the shelf.

Without answering, Holmes heads for his bedroom.

Holmes, by this time in his bedroom, shuts the door.

Gabrielle reappears from the other bedroom, carrying a

glove.

She moves toward the couch.

By this time Gabrielle has picked up her parasol from the

couch, and is obviously searching about.

He peers under the couch. Gabrielle moves toward the

window, shakes the parasol, opens it a few times.

He comes up from under the couch with the missing glove.

She slowly starts to shut the parasol.

EXT. BAKER STREET - DAY

Through the upstairs window of 221B we see Gabrielle

shutting the parasol. CAMERA PULLS BACK TO INCLUDE the

hansom parked across the street, and von Tirpitz

watching. He signals to the cabbie, who is back on his

perch. The cabbie flicks his whip, and the hansom takes

off down the street.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

The Highland Express is speeding northward through the

moonlit landscape, its steam whistle hooting mournfully.

INT. SLEEPING COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

The upper and lower berths have been made up in the

small, gaslit compartment. Gabrielle's dress is on a

hanger, but there is no sign of her at the moment.

Holmes is just pulling a night-shirt over his head.

Gabrielle's head appears from under the covers of the

lower berth.

He starts to climb up the ladder to the upper berth.

INT. THIRD CLASS CARRIAGE - NIGHT

There is the normal complement of passengers, men, women

and children, of the middle and lower classes. The only

unusual occupants are a group of seven MONKS, in brown

habits and cowls.

Watson, in valet's livery, comes down the aisle, proceeds

toward a window-seat where he has left his umbrella and

bowler. The resf of the bench is occupied by monks, as

is the facing bench. As Watson tries to squeeze between

them, he steps on the foot of one of the monks.

There is no answer from the monk. Watson picks up his

bowler, settles himself in his seat, starts to fan

himself with his hat. He turns sociably to the monk

beside him, who is absorbed in his Bible.

As he fans himself the ear-pieces of his stethoscope,

which is coiled inside the crown of his bowler, dangle

down. He quickly shoves them back inside.

The monk looks up from his Bible, points to his lips,

shakes his head.

The monk doesn't answer. Watson turns away, looks out

the window -- but there's nothing to be seen. Then he

folds, bored. He glances casually at the Bible in the

monk's hands.

The Good Book is opened to a page headed: JONAH.

He pulls down the shade, closes his eyes, tries to

compose himself into sleep.

INT. SLEEPING COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

Holmes is stretched out in the upper berth, which is in

darkness. In the lower, Gabrielle is propped up against

a pillow, reading a magazine by the light of a gas lamp.

Other magazines are scattered across her blanket.

Holmes raises himself on his elbow, glances down over the

edge of his berth.

Oh.

He gave me some back issues of Strand

Magazine.

The good doctor is constantly putting

words into my mouth.

Then you deny it?

Not at all. I am not a whole-hearted

admirer of womankind.

I'm not very fond of them myself.

The most affectionate woman I ever knew

was a murderess.

Oh?

It was one of those passionate affairs --

at odd hours -- right in my laboratory.

And all the time, behind my back, she was

stealing cyanide to sprinkle on her

husband's steak and kidney pie.

You mustn't judge all women by --

Of course not. Only the ones I was

involved with. And I don't just mean

professionally -- kleptomaniacs,

nymphomaniacs, pyromaniacs. Take my

fiancee, for instance --

Your fiancee?

He pulls the curtain across his berth.

She closes her curtain, as the train whistle sounds.

INT. THIRD CLASS CARRIAGE - NIGHT

Most of the passengers in the car have fallen asleep, in

various uncomfortable positions, including Watson. The

monk beside Watson looks at him, to make sure he's out,

then rises and moves toward a monk seated apart from the

others.

The other monk looks up.   Under the cowl we recognize the

face of von Tirpitz.

EXT. INVERNESS STATION - DAY

The Highland Express is pulling out of the station. As

the last car disappears, and the steam clears from the

tracks, we see Holmes, Gabrielle and Watson on the

platform. A BAGGAGEMAN is loading their luggage on a

hand-cart, under Watson's supervision.

Gabrielle removes her parasol, which has been inserted

under the straps of her suitcase.

Gabrielle casually opens her parasol.

Gabrielle looks at Holmes. CAMERA PANS UP TOWARD an iron

footbridge, spanning the railway tracks. Moving across

it in single file are the seven cowled Trappist monks,

with von Tirpitz in the lead.

EXT. GLENNAHURICH CEMETARY - DAY

Under a leaden sky, the yew trees which give the place

its name brood over ancient gravestones.

Holmes, Gabrielle and Watson come down an overgrown path,

stop and look off.

A rather meagre funeral procession is moving along the

avenue which runs between the rows of graves. It

consists of one normal-size pine coffin and two smaller

ones, loaded on a cart which is being wheeled by a couple

of workmen. Bringing up behind is a MINISTER, with an

open prayer book in his hands.

Holmes starts to cut across between the graves, Gabrielle

and Watson following.

At the grave-site, the workmen are removing the coffins

from the cart. There is one large grave, two smaller

ones. A couple of grave-diggers stand by respectfully,

caps in hands.

Holmes, Gabrielle and Watson come up behind a nearby

headstone, stop and watch.

At the grave-site, the minister is finishing the service.

The workmen trundle the cart off, the minister following.

The grave-diggers don their caps, pick up their shovels.

From their vantage point, Holmes, Gabrielle and Watson

are watching.

The grave-diggers have finished filling in the graves

when Holmes, Gabrielle and Watson come up.

He picks up a white-washed wooden cross, plants it at the

head of the grave. The other grave-digger has inserted

smaller crosses into the other two mounds of earth.

He and his partner shoulder their shovels, move off.

They are about to get under way when suddenly Holmes

stops them.

Coming down the avenue toward them are four small boys,

in knickerbockers and caps, carrying bouquets of flowers.

Without a word, Holmes draws Gabrielle and Watson back to

their hiding place, behind the headstone.

The four boys approach the freshly-filled graves. They

remove their caps, lay their flowers on each of the two

small graves, then kneel down and bow their heads in

prayer.

From their position behind the headstone, Holmes, Watson

and Gabrielle are watching the four boys, who have their

backs to them.

He picks some up from the ground, hands them to Holmes,

who tosses them in the direction of the graves. The

pebbles strike a granite cross. At the sound, the four

boys simultaneously turn their heads over their

shoulders. Despite their slight bodies they have the

features of mature men.

Gabrielle and Watson react to the sight.

The four midgets have now risen, and putting on their

caps, move off down the avenue. Holmes, Gabrielle and

Watson emerge from their place of concealment.

EXT. GLENNAHURICH CEMETARY - NIGHT

The point of a crowbar digs under the edge of a coffin

lid, which starts to give with a squealing protest of

nails. CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL Holmes, standing in

the large grave, from which the earth has been removed.

Kneeling beside the grave, watching anxiously, are

Gabrielle and Watson, the latter holding a bullseye

lantern.

Holmes pries the lid open, disclosing the corpse of a

middle-aged man. His arms are folded across his chest,

and on the third finger of his left hand is a wedding

ring similar to Gabrielle's. From the picture of him we

have seen earlier, we recognize the face as that of Emile

Valladon.

Gabrielle lets out a piercing scream, collapses in a

faint. Watson catches her.

Watson passes down the lantern, and Holmes slowly shines

the beam along the length of the coffin.

The lantern beam now reveals that laid out at Valladon's

feet are three canaries -- their plumage bleached a grey-

white color.

EXT. CALEDONIAN HOTEL - DAWN

An open carriage is proceeding along the driveway toward

the hotel, scatting a flock of sheep grazing nearby.

Watson is sitting beside the coachman. Holmes and

Gabrielle are in the passenger seat, their luggage is

strapped to the back. Through the trees which line the

road we glimpse Loch Ness, which is partly obscured by a

low-lying mist.

The carriage pulls up in front of the hotel, which is

identified by a sign above the entrance, and Holmes,

Watson and Gabrielle get out.

CLOSE SHOT - HOTEL REGISTER

Holmes' hand is writing: Mr. And Mrs. Ashdown and valet,

London.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAWN

The MANAGER, in kilts, is just opening the curtains --

disclosing a view of the mist-shrouded lake through the

window.

The room is on the second floor, and is furnished in a

style which has been described as Scotch Baronial -- twin

beds with a night-table between them, wardrobe,

chiffonier, desk, a couple of chairs, and several mounted

stags' heads.

Holmes and Gabrielle are in the room, Watson is bringing

their bags through the door.

The manager starts toward the door, nodding to Watson.

Watson picks up his suitcase, follows him.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY

The manager and Watson come out, the latter shutting the

door.

Watson grunts as the manager leads him up a narrow flight

of stairs.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Holmes removes his coat, turns to Gabrielle.

Gabrielle tearfully removes her ring, hands it to Holmes.

From his vest pocket he now produces Valladon's ring --

the copper has a greenish tinge to it. He crosses to the

window, compares the two rings in the light. Gabrielle

sinks down on the edge of one of the beds.

She manages a tentative smile.   Holmes looks at her for a

long moment, then --

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY

Watson comes dashing down the narrow stairs from the

attic, races toward teh door of Holmes' room.

He flings the door open.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Watson bursts in breathlessly.

Watson fishes a small telescope out of Holmes' suitcase,

rushes through the open French window to the balcony.

EXT. BALCONY - DAY

Watson focuses the telescope on the lake.

LOCH NESS THROUGH TELESCOPE - DAY

Through the swirling mist which clings to the surface of

the lake, a shadowy figure with a long, monster-like neck

can be see gliding along.

EXT. BALCONY - DAY

Watson almost drops the telescope in excitement.

Holmes joins him on the balcony.

He hands the telescope to Holmes. Gabrielle comes up to

the window behind them. Holmes trains the telescope on

the lake.

LOCH NESS - THROUGH TELESCOPE - DAY

Holmes' eye slowly scans the lake, but there is no sign

of Watson's monster -- just the rolling mist.

EXT. BALCONY - DAY

Holmes lowers the telescope.

He grabs the telescope from Holmes, looks toward the

lake.

He steps back into the room.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Watson comes halfway through the French window.

He looks at Holmes almost triumphantly.

SERIES OF SHOTS - DAY

Holmes, Gabrielle, and Watson bicycling away from the

hotel. Holmes, in knickerbockers and a Norfolk jacket,

and Gabrielle, holding her parasol, are on a tandem.

Watson is behind them, on a bicycle with a picnic basket

attached to the rack. He is in his valet's outfit, with

metal clips around his trouser cuffs.

The three of them bicycling past a long stone wall.

They pedal up to an imposing castle.   Holmes dismounts,

knocks on the front door.

Our trio bicycling through a copse of trees.

They approach another castle.

On a steep road, they ride through a flock of sheep.

They are proceeding along a causeway, away from a third

castle.

EXT. LAKE SHORE - DAY

Holmes and Gabrielle are sitting on a blanket, the

contents of the picnic basket spread before them, having

lunch. Watson is pouring the wine. Their bicycles are

resting nearby.

As he does so, he catches sight of something o.s.

On the road above, approaching a bridge which spans the

lake where it narrows into a stream, are the seven

Trappist monks, walking slowly in single file.

Watson waves to them, but the monks pay no attention to

him.

As he turns back, he notices that Gabrielle is

manipulating her parasol in the air.

She continues to work the parasol, alternately opening it

and partially closing it.

On the bridge von Tirpitz, who is at the rear of the file

of monks, glances back toward the lakeshore.

EXT. URQUHART CASTLE - DAY

On a promontory jutting into Loch Ness stand the remains

of a medieval fortress. Around the Tower, the Motte, and

the ruins of the East wall, wooden scaffolding has been

erected, and a couple of dozen men are engaged in what

appears to be repair work. Amidst the rubble of the

Nether Bailey, an encampment of tents has been set up.

Holmes, Gabrielle and Watson come bicycling up along a

fence on the heights overlooking the castle, dismount in

front of the locked gates. Attached to the gatepost is a

sign reading: WARNING: No Unauthorized Person Permitted

Beyond This Point.

She points to the sign -- and to a guard coming up the

driveway, with a couple of huge mastiffs on leashes.

They move off.

EXT. URQUHART CASTLE - DAY

Holmes, Gabrielle and Watson are coming up a path from

the lakeside, leading their bicycles. They lean the

cycles against a ruined wall, start across the courtyard.

A middle-aged MAN in kilts emerges from the tumbled-down

gatehouse, comes toward them.

As the three of them move off, a canvas-topped wagon

comes through the stone archway, stops at the front of

the steps leading to the inner courtyard.

They have now reached the wall against which they left

their bicycles. Suddenly Holmes stops, attracted by the

sound of birds chirping.

Watson and Gabrielle follow his gaze.

From the back of the wagon, the carriers have removed the

small bird-cage we saw in the mail-drop on Ashdown

Street. They hand it to a workman, who starts up the

steps with it. To another couple of workmen they pass

down an open-sided crate in which rest two heavy glass

bottles protected by wicker. Stencilled on the wooden

slate of the crate are the words: SULPHURIC ACID -

CORROSIVE.

Holmes is watching thoughtfully, Gabrielle and Watson are

puzzled.

Watson has lowered his clasped hands, and Holmes uses

them as a foothold to go scrambling up the scaffolding of

the nearby wall. Reaching the top, he looks off in the

direction of the tower.

The workman carrying the canary cage, and the two

carrying the crate of sulphuric acid are approaching the

tower. A draw-bridge comes down, and the three men cross

the moat and enter the tower.

Out of the ruined gatehouse comes the guard with the two

mastiffs on leashes. The dogs start to snarl viciously.

Holmes leaps down from the scaffolding, wheels the tandem

around, starts back in the direction from which they

came. Gabrielle follows. Watson hurries after them with

his bicycle, casting anxious glances over his shoulder as

the dogs continue barking.

EXT. LOCH NESS - EARLY EVENING

The sun has just gone down behind the hills, but there is

still light in the sky. An ominous mist is beginning to

settle on the water.

Gabrielle is sitting in the stern of a rowboat, her

parasol in her lap. She is wearing Holmes' Norfolk

jacket over her dress to ward off the chill.

On the rowing seat, facing her, are Watson and Holmes,

the latter in his waistcoat. Their oars are pulled in,

and they are watching Urquhart Castle, on the opposite

side of the lake.

Gabrielle glances past them, and her eyes widen.

Holmes and Watson turn their heads.

About half a mile away, moving in and out of patches of

drifting mist, is Watson's monster, its long reptillian

neck cutting through the water.

Watson leaps to his feet.

Holmes grabs his arm, pulls him back into his seat.

He grabs his oar, and Watson belatedly joins in. They

strain at the oars, setting a course which will intercept

the monster.  Gabrielle leans forward in her seat, trying

to peer past them through the curtains of mist.

The monster is much closer now -- no more than a quarter

of a mile away.

Suddenly Watson stops rowing.

Watson resumes pulling on his oar.   As they row, Holmes

looks over his shoulder.

The monster has started to submerge. Its head disappears

beneath the surface of the water, and the wake it leaves

behind soon trails off into the mist.

Holmes ships his oar.

He listens intently. There is only the sound of water

slapping against the side of the boat. The mist is

heavier now, and billowing around them.

He removes his bowler, unwinds the stethoscope from the

inside the crown, hands it to Holmes. Holmes plugs in

the ear-pieces, leans over the side of the boat, extends

the other end of the stethoscope to the surface of the

water.

We become aware of the faint beating of engines,

accompanied by a bubbling sound.

Suddenly the surface of the water breaks, about twenty

yards away from them, and the head and neck of the

monster rear up from the depths. Watson is first to

notice it and jumps to his feet, making choking noises.

Gabrielle sees it and screams. Watson grabs an oar,

throws it at the monster as it comes past. The backwash

hits the boat broadside, rocking it, and Holmes, Watson

and Gabrielle are spilled into the lake.

The monster moves away from them, heading in the general

direction of the castle. It disappears into the mist.

Holmes is the first to come up, looks around, sees

Gabrielle surfacing a few yards away, swims to her.

He glances around, sees Watson's bowler floating nearby,

swims over to it.

He lifts the hat -- but Watson isn't under it.

As Gabrielle hoists herself into the boat, Watson

clambers over the other side. After a moment Holmes

joins them, and they sit there, sopping wet and breathing

heavily.

They glance in the indicated direction.

There is no sign of the monster. But the mist has

momentarily lifted to reveal the castle, and an odd sight

greets their eyes -- the wooden scaffolding in front of

the tower is slowly rising into the air.

The scaffolding in front of the tower slowly descends

back into the place, as mist once more engulfs the

castle.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Holmes, in a different suit   of clothes, is pacing across

the room, whistling the main   theme from "Swan Lake." He

stops before the open French   window, gazes out toward the

lake. Gabrielle is propped    up in bed, a blanket drawn up

to her chin, watching him.    Watson, who has changed into

a pair of kilts, is standing   in front of the fireplace,

warming his backside.

Gabrielle glances at Watson, suppresses a giggle.

Holmes resumes pacing, and Watson becomes aware of his

whistling.

No answer from Holmes.    Watson turns to Gabrielle.

There's a lake -- and there's a castle --

and there's a swan that isn't really a

swan -- or, in this case, a monster that

isn't really a monster --

Then what is it?

What is it indeed that feeds on canary

birds and sulphuric acid, and has an

engine for a heart?

An engine?

The stethoscope is a very sensitive

instrument, and water is an excellent

conductor of sound. There is no doubt

that what we are dealing with is a

mechanical monster.

Oh?

Not only is it equipped with an

artificial heart, it also has artificial

lungs. Judging from the bubbles on the

surface of the lake, it uses some form of

air pump.

You think my husband was involved in all

this?

Yes, Madame Valladon.    I'm sure of it.

But why would anybody build a mechanical

monster? Just to scare people?

Not very likely.

There is a knock on the door.

The door opens and the hotel manager enters, holding a

magnum of champagne.

He hands the magnum to Holmes.

He turns and exits.   Holmes taps the bottle of champagne

thoughtfully.

As Holmes starts toward the door, Watson reaches into his

sporran.

He produces a revolver, holds it out to Holmes.    Holmes

ignores it, exits.

EXT. CALEDONIAN HOTEL - NIGHT

A gig is waiting in front of the entrance, and leaning

against it is the guide we saw earlier at Urquhart.

Holmes comes out, carrying the champagne bottle.

Holmes climbs into the gig, and the guide moutns the seat

beside him.

He flicks the reins. The horse starts off at a trot, and

the gig turns into the driveway.

EXT. MOVING GIG - NIGHT

As they drive along, Holmes glances at the guide, who is

grim and uncommunicative.

EXT. ROAD LEADING TO CASTLE - NIGHT

The gig, with its two passengers, proceeds along the

lakeshore, approaching the entrance to Urquhart.

EXT. URQUHART CASTLE - NIGHT

A workman is lighting a couple of torches attached to the

ruined gatehouse when the gig comes through the archway.

The guide reins up the horse in front of the steps

leading to the inner courtyard -- which are now covered

with a narrow red carpet.

The guide nods to Holmes, who dismounts, starts up the

steps, examining the red carpet. As he reaches the top,

he looks off.

The strip of red carpet runs across the courtyard, lit by

torches planted in the ground. A couple of workmen are

are unrolling the rest of the carpet toward the entrance

of the tower.

As Holmes passes one of the tents, the flap opens and

Mycroft steps out, dressed in his inevitable frock coat.

A black-suited MAN emerges from the ten, and Mycroft

gives him the champagne.

The man moves off toward the tower.   Mycroft pulls back

the flap of the tent.

Holmes passes inside, Mycroft following.

INT. TENT - NIGHT

It is lit by a kerosene lamp suspended from the ridge-

pole. There are several cots, one of them with the

bedding rolled up. Resting on the stripped cot is a

trunk with the name E. VALLADON painted on it. Lying on

a table, among a group of engineering models, are

Gabrielle's parasol and Watson's stethoscope. There are

also a couple of drafting tables, with plans and

blueprints tacked to them.

Holmes moves around the tent, taking all this in.

Despite my most emphatic warning, you

persisted in meddling. It would have

served you right if you'd all drowned.

Sorry to be so unobliging.

E. Valladon... H'mm.

I imagine this belongs to    the pretty

lady, and this belongs to    your valet...

We found them floating in    the lake.

Speaking about things floating in the

lake --

How much do you know -- or think you

know?

I think you're testing some sort of

underwater craft -- camouflauged to

mislead the gullible. I think it's an

experimental model, operated by a crew of

midgets. I think it is powered by

sulphuric acid batteries, and uses

canaries to detect escaping gas...

Altogether a strange contraption.

Not quite that unique. Right now, four

countries are trying to develop what we

call a submersible. But none of them

could solve the critical problem -- how

to stay submerged long enough to make it

effective.

What does the Good Book say? "And Jonah

lived in the belly of that fish for three

days and three nights."

That was our goal. And thanks to

Valladon's air-pump, we got a jump on the

rest of them. It's a highly complex

system of filtration -- so we had a

series of trials --

And at least one error.

During a test run in Moray Firth,

pressure caused a leak in the hull. Sea

water mixed with the acid in the

batteries to produce chlorine gas.

Before they could reach the surface,

Valladon and the crew were dead.

So you had them buried in unmarked

graves, to preserve your secret.

It was essential to keep the information

from your client.

You went to all those lengths to prevent

Madame Valladon from fiding her husband?

Your client isn't Madame Valladon -- it's

the Imperial German Government. They

were after the Belgian engineer -- or

rather, his invention. They knew he was

employed by us, but they couldn't find

out where -- so they enlisted the best

brain in England to help them. You, my

dear brother, have been working for the

Wilhelmstrasse.

And Madame Valladon -- what part did she

play in all this?

Madame Valladon is dead.

Dead?

Mycroft crosses to the trunk, opens the lid.

He hands Holmes a small, framed photograph. Holmes looks

at it with apprehension, as well he should: the picture

is of a somewhat matronly woman, not the glamorous

Gabrielle. Holmes lowers  the photograph. Behind it,

Mycroft is glaring at him with customary arrogance.

As Mycroft continues, Holmes picks up Ilse's water-soaked

parasol and examines it.

EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT

A coach and escort approach the castle. Painted on the

door of the coach are the initials "V.R."

INT. CASTLE COURTYARD

The entourage enters the castle courtyard and stops.

Footmen open the door and bow to the lone passenger.

Waiting on top of the steps, outside the tent, are

Mycroft and Holmes. Lined up on the other side of the

torch-lit red carpet are half a dozen scientists, in

their best clothes.

Out of the coach steps a familiar figure -- Her Majesty,

QUEEN VICTORIA, Defender of the Faith, Empress of India.

She is 69 years old, and dressed entirely in black.

Mycroft comes down the carpeted steps to meet her.

He bows. The Queen extends her hand to him, and he

touches it.

A lady-in-waiting and a uniformed equerry have now

descended from the coach. Mycroft leads the party up the

steps.

They have now reached the top of the steps.

Ma'am, may present some of the scientists

who were responsible for this

achievement. J.W. Ferguson, naval

architect --

Your Majesty.

Professor Simpson, our leading expert on

hydraulics --

Your Majesty.

W.W. Prescott, co-inventor of the

revolving periscope --

Your Majesty.

And this is Sir Arthur Grisby, our

authority on maritime ballistics --

We don't claim to understand any of this.

But England is proud of you, gentlemen.

To think that man can now observe fish in

their native habitat --

Well, not exactly, Ma'am --

-- and underwater plants and coral

reefs --

Young man -- what was your contribution

to this project?

I'm afraid it was rather negligible, Your

Majesty.

Holmes bows, touches the Queen's extended hand.

Mycroft signals to a bagpiper, who starts playing HIELAN'

LADDIE.

Mycroft leads the Queen along the red runner toward the

tower. Holmes follows, then the lady-in-waiting and the

equerry, then the scientists.

As they cross the inner courtyard, the Highland piper

falls in ahead of the procession, leads them toward the

drawbridge. Then he steps aside,  as the royal party

crosses the drawbridge and passes through the door of the

tower.

INT. DUNGEON - NIGHT

A high-ceilinged rock chamber, with a spiral iron

staircase leading down. The floor is a concrete ramp,

the lower end of it covered with water. Beyond is the

entrance from the Loch, camouflaged by scaffolding and

vegetation.

On the upper part of the ramp is a small, primitive

submarine, resting on wheels. Prominently lettered on

the bow is the name H.M.S. JONAH, and suspended by a rope

from the prow is the magnum of champagne which Holmes

delivered. Along the sides are torpedo tubes, and fitted

over the conning tower is the head and neck of the

"monster" we saw in the lake.

Present are half a dozen naval personnel, commanded by an

officer. As the royal party comes down the spiral

staircase, the officer snaps to attention. Mycroft is in

the lead, followed by the Queen, Holmes, the lady-in-

waiting, the equerry and the scientists.

The four surviving midgets appear on the deck, in wool

jerseys and navy caps. They start pulling on a chain

which slowly raises the detachable head-and-neck of the

monster toward the ceiling, disclosing the conning tower

and the periscope.

A SAILOR of normal height appears on the deck of the sub.

The midgets scramble down the hatch.

There is the sound of the engines starting. Mycroft

leads the Queen to an open bulkhead in the side of the

sub, with Holmes and rest of the party close behind.

Inside, all is noise and confusion. Metal rods are

dipping into glass jars of sulphuric acid, complicated

machinery is driving the propeller shaft, bellows are

inflating and deflating, etc. The midgets are at their

stations in the cramped quarters, pulling switches,

oiling the engines, operating the periscope. Overhead is

a cageful of canaries, all chirping away. Mycroft points

out the various features to the Queen.

At a signal from Mycroft, the sub engines are turned off.

He exchanges a look with Holmes.

She starts toward the spiral staircase. The equerry

precedes her up the stairs, the lady-in-waiting follows,

the scientists trail after them. Mycroft and Holmes

linger behind.

O.s., the bagpiper resumes playing.

He starts up the spiral staircase.    Holmes follows slowly

and thoughtfully.

EXT. CALEDONIAN HOTEL - DAWN

The gig, with the quide driving and Holmes beside him,

comes up the driveway, stops in front of the entrance.

Holmes hops down, and twirling Gabrielle's parasol in his

hand, walks into the hotel.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAWN

In the half-light, Gabrielle can be seen asleep in her

bed. She is wearing the pink negligee with the maribou

feathers, which has slipped halfway off her shoulders.

The other bed has not been slept in.

The door from the corridor opens and Holmes steps in,

carrying the parasol.

He crosses to Gabrielle's bed, looks down at her for a

long moment, adjusts the negligee with the tip of the

parasol. The he moves to the French window, opens it,

glances out.

LAKEFRONT - FROM HOLMES' ANGLE - DAWN

The seven Trappist monks are standing on the shore,

silhouetted against the water, watching the hotel.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAWN

Holmes withdraws from the window , looks at the sleeping

Gabrielle, then casually swings the parasol, hitting a

metal lamp-shade overhead. Gabrielle sits up abruptly in

bed, clutching her negligee around her.

Keeping well to one side of the open window, he extends

the parasol outside, opens it, starts sending out a

series of long and short signals.

LAKEFRONT - DAWN

von Tirpitz and the other monks strain their eyes in the

direction of the hotel.

HOTEL - FROM MONKS' ANGLE - DAWN

Outside the hotel window, Gabrielle's parasol can be seen

flashing the message UNTER DEM SCHLOSS in Morse code --

but it is not apparent that Holmes is doing the

signalling.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAWN

As Holmes continues opening and closing the parasol,

Gabrielle gets out of bed, comes up beside him. Holmes

finishes the message, shuts the parasol, draws it back

into the room. Then he looks out the window.

LAKEFRONT - FROM HOLMES' ANGLE - DAWN

The monks turn away from the hotel, and with von Tirpitz

in the lead, move off along the shore.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAWN

Holmes steps back from the window, faces Gabrielle.

Well, it's up to the good monks now. You

can consider your part of the mission

accomplished, Fraulein Hoffmanstal.

You're all wrong about me.   My name isn't

Hoffmanstal.

It isn't?

It's von Hoffmanstal.

I stand corrected.

I suppose once they're in the castle...

It must amuse you, Mr. Holmes, Trappists

walking into a trap.

It's more amusing than that. Once in the

castle, they will encounter surprisingly

little resistance -- it will take but a

small bottle of chloroform to overcome

the guards.

You mean you're going to let them have

the air-pump?

Better than that. We're going to let

them have the submersible. They will

find it with its engines running, all set

to go. I assume they're all expert

sailors? And since there is a German

battleship cruising off the coast of

Scotland, I expect they'll try to sail it

out of the lock and rendezvous at sea.

Did you say try to?

He opens her suitcase, which is on the baggage rack at

the foot of the bed. Gabrielle watches him for a beat,

then crosses to the wardrobe, starts taking her clothes

out.

He stretches out on the bed.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY

Watson, back in his valet's outfit again, comes bounding

down the narrow stairs from the attic, races toward the

door of Holmes' room.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Bright sunlight now floods the room.   Gabrielle, fully

dressed, is standing in front of the  mirror, putting on

her hat. Her packed bag has been set   out in the middle

of the room, and resting on it is the  parasol.

The door bursts open and Watson dashes in.

In his haste he trips over the bag, goes down. As he

picks himself up again, Gabrielle points toward the

balcony.

EXT. BALCONY - HOTEL - DAY

Holmes is leaning against the parapet, scanning the lake

through his telescope. Watson appears through the open

French window behind him.

LOCH NESS - THROUGH TELESCOPE - DAY

A trial of bubbles is moving along the surface. Suddenly

there is a muffled explosion from below, and a geyser of

water shoots up into the air.

EXT. BALCONY - HOTEL - DAY

Holmes slowly lowers the telescope.

LOCH NESS - THROUGH TELESCOPE - DAY

There is a great turbulence in the water. Up to the

surface pops the bottle of christening champagne, with

rope and ribbons still attached. Then a copy of the

Bible pops up.

EXT. BALCONY - HOTEL - DAY

He steps through the window as a puzzled Watson lowers

the telescope.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Watson follows Holmes in from the balcony.

Through the open doorway comes Mycroft.   In the corridor

behind him is one of his aides.

Gabrielle looks at Holmes, but he avoids her eyes.

Mycroft signals to his aide, who comes in from the

corridor and picks up Gabrielle's bag.

She turns and walks out the door, Mycroft following.

Watson's bewilderment has now reached monumental

proportions.

Holmes crosses to a small window overlooking the

courtyard of the hotel, opens it, looks out.

EXT. HOTEL - DAY

Mycroft's aide comes out of the hotel with Gabrielle's

suitcase, loads it into an open carriage waiting in front

of the entrance. Gabrielle emerges, carrying her parasol,

and accompanied by Mycroft. He helps her into the

carriage, gets in beside her.

The aide joins the coachman, and the carriage drives off.

Gabrielle does not look back toward the hotel.

EXT. SMALL WINDOW - HOTEL - DAY

Holmes is framed in the open window, watching the

carriage. Watson comes up behind him.

EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY

The carriage is moving away from the hotel. Gabrielle

has her parasol over her shoulder, and it opens and

closes, opens and closes.

GABRIELLE - IN MOVING CARRIAGE - DAY

She continues to signal with the parasol, unnoticed by

Mycroft.

EXT. SMALL WINDOW - HOTEL - DAY

Watson is straining forward to see out the window.

EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY

The carriage disappears down an avenue of trees,

Gabrielle's parasol still flashing its message.

EXT. BAKER STREET - DAY

There is snow on the ground, and drifts of it piled up

along the curbs. Traffic is light. Householders are

shovelling the snow off the sidewalks, and pedestrians

are hurrying along bundled up against the cold.

INT. LIVING ROOM - 221B BAKER STREET - DAY

Holmes, in his dressing gown, and Watson, in his smoking

jacket, are at the breakfast table. There is snow on the

window-sills, and a cozy fire is burning in the grate.

Watson is reading the morning paper. Holmes is sorting

through his mail.

He has slit open the envelope. Watson watches him

curiously as he reads the letter, but Holmes' face

remains expressionless. Slowly he puts down the letter,

rises, crosses to the window, stands there staring out

into the wintry street.

Holmes doesn't answer. Watson takes a lump of sugar out

of the bowl with a pair of tongs, drops it into his

coffee.

Then glancing over his shoulder to make sure Holmes isn't

watching, he swivels the letter around with the tongs.

It is written on Diogenes Club stationery, and reads:

The page ends at this point. Watson turns the sheet of

paper over with the tongs. The letter continues on the

other side.

Watson looks toward Holmes, who is still standing with

his back to the room, gets up from the table.

Holmes turns to the bookshelves above the desk.   From a

row of similar volumes, he slides out the three  files

marked MAY, JUNE, and JULY 1885. Actually, it's   the

medical bag, standing on end, with the spines of  three

volumes pasted on the bottom.

He sets the bag down on the desk, opens it, takes out a

bottle of cocaine. Watson watches him with compassion as

he crosses to his bedroom with his cocaine, goes in,

shuts the door.

Footsteps are heard hurrying up the stairs, and after a

moment there is a knock on the door. Watson approaches

the door, opens it to reveal INSPECTOR LESTRADE -- a

short, nervous man whose features are sharper than his

mind. He is wearing an overcoat, his bowler is in his

hands, and his fingers are drumming on the crown.

From Holmes' bedroom comes the sound of a melancholy tune

being played on the violin. Watson starts to ease

Lestrade out of the door.

He shuts the door after him, listens to the sound of the

violin for a moment. Then he crosses to the wicker

chair, seats himself. He takes some sheets of paper out

of the rack and places them on the writing arm, dips his

pen in the inkwell, starts to write.

The violin music continues OVER SCENE, infinitely

romantic, infinitely sad.

