A little boy's bedroom. Pale blue. A single bed, a window,

some games. Some stuff in boxes. Not a mausoleum.

Kym enters Ethan's room. She stands there looking around.

She takes a moment...

Kym wandering the upstairs hallway...the winding corridors

are a little spooky, despite the openness and light, it feels

haunted up here...looking into her old bedroom, seeing Emma's

stuff inside.

Paul comes to the bottom of the stairs, yelling up.

Rachel and Emma shout back down.

Kym appears, down the back stairway, behind Paul, not

shouting...

Paul starts up the stairs.

Paul has stopped half way up the stairs. He turns to Kym,

beams at her.

Paul doesn't say anything. Carol floats to Paul's side.

Kym pedaling up on a bouncy, high tech racing bike that is

far too big for her. She bangs herself in the crotch as she

dismounts.

Kym stops a baby-faced NURSE.

Several people are waiting in chairs. They look at Kym.

A DIFFERENT NURSE is waiting by the sinks examining her teeth

in the mirror. Kym bangs open the door of her stall with her

foot. The door swings back and Kym spills her sample all over

herself.

As she runs up the OUTSIDE STAIRCASE Kym wipes at her shirt

with a wet paper towel. She yanks open the door and a bird

poops on her.

Narcotics Anonymous Meeting. Chairs, light. An ATTRACTIVE GUY

is sharing. Kym slams in, frazzled and late. A few people

look at her as she grabs a folding chair from a stack leaning

against the wall and the other chairs slide to the floor with

a huge clatter.

The room breaks up. Kym struggles to rearrange the fallen

chairs. She is pissed.

PASTOR MEL, a guest speaker, shares details of his struggles

inside the "12 Step" Process. Kym, like everyone present, is

riveted.

Sweaty and fed up with Carol's bike, Kym cycles into the

Buchman driveway. Paul has been watching for her out the

kitchen window while doing dishes. He waves and yells to his

wife.

Kym's shoulders slump.

Watching from an upstairs window, Rachel observes Kym wheel

the bike up the driveway and Paul hurrying from the kitchen

to meet her, carrying a meat loaf sandwich and a glass of

milk. There is an awkward exchange of items. Paul hugs and

mushes Kym and kisses her on the forehead.

Rachel opens the window, calls down.

Fiancee SIDNEY, sexy, compact, thirties, and best man KIERAN,

are stringing lights all over the house and yard. Kieran is

on a ladder. He is the same ATTRACTIVE GUY from the meeting.

Sidney is completely wrapped, chest to knees, in twinkly

white lights and he unspools himself as needed. Rachel

arrives with Kym who is holding the aircraft carrier sized

meatloaf sandwich that's oozing lettuce and ketchup and the

enormous glass of milk. She holds them both like they're

suspended in formaldehyde. Emma is working on her tan.

Kym gives Emma a look. Emma smiles sweetly.

Rachel gestures up the ladder.

Kym looks up the ladder at Kieran.

Kym and Kieran, having SEX in the cavernous basement. It

runs practically the length of the house and there are nooks

and caves everywhere. An ancient sofa, riddled with

cigarette burns, some futons, dragged down and thrown

haphazardly in corners, Unicorn posters hideously and

pornographically defaced, and squat jars of ancient household

products (Oil of Olay, self tanner) filled with cigarette

butts offer proof of years of inhabitation.

LATER -- Kym lights up.

A LAVISH BOLLYWOOD SOUNDTRACK PLAYS as Emma wraps Kym in

lilac fabric for her sari-esque bridesmaid's dress. Kym

examines herself in the mirrors of the private salon. The

girls look like jewels against the lush fabrics, pillows and

curtains. Rachel sits at a vanity trying on dangling earrings

and shakes her head gently, the gems glimmer and sparkle.

Emma looks at Rachel.

Kym ignores her.

Kym looks sharply at her.

They both look at her.

Beat.

For an instant, conflict and pain flicker over Rachel's sweet

face.

THE REHEARSAL DINNER --"The rehearsal" component is in full

swing amidst elegant dioramas and displays of Ukrainian folk

art saints, traditional costumes, a skillion painted eggs,

the mounted heads of indigenous Ukrainian animals, and the

plaster busts of Ukrainian Popes.

The audience of revelers is clustered at one end of the room

with drinks and appetizers, while at the other end, various

friends take their shot at a brief rehearsal.

Old friend Norman Sklear is emceeing the line-up -- he is

currently at the mike with a funny improv based on really

disastrous weddings he has known. Everybody is laughing.

Paul, Carol, a few of Paul's closest record biz friends

(including a CULT LUMINARY or two); MR. AND MRS. WILLIAMS

(Sidney's mom and dad), sister KAYRA, grandmother HERREAST,

and cousin JOSEPH GONZALES (in US Army dress uniform, home on

leave from Iraq) blend easily with the younger crowd. Cousin

Joseph is always filming with his own CAMCORDER.

QUICK CUTS -- other rehearsal moments such as a TEENAGED

GUITAR/DRUMS DUO blowing out "Here Comes The Bride"; Gaida's

Arabic wedding song; UKRAINIAN AL (the in-house music

director) getting the women to chant "Rachel" and the men to

chant "Sidney" ancient European-stylee; ZAFER TEE's

exquisitely heartbreaking improvised violin solo; DORIAN

LOVEJOY's Rachel/Sidney FREESTYLE RAP, etc. delivering to a

breathtaking saxophone solo entitled "Sidney loves Rachel" by

(the real) DONALD HARRISON JR.

Harrison's toast to Paul, his beautiful family, and the

memory of many memorable nights of music in the Buchman house

while the kids were growing up draws HUGE APPLAUSE, POWERING

INTO --

THE DINNER-- The forty-odd guests are now seated in an

adjoining room at LONG TABLES laden with a GORGEOUS INDIAN

FEAST. Yellow rice, red curry, vivid green and orange

vegetable dishes, pink shrimp. Huge plates of Dosa and

Brinjal. Candles flicker in lanterns shaped like lotuses.

PHOTOGENICALLY STYLISH YOUNG SERVERS dressed elegantly in

black and white hover around the family and friends as

everybody makes total pigs of themselves.

The INDIAN FEAST contrasts agreeably with the Ukrainian

visuals. EVOCATIVE BOLLYWOOD MUSIC PROVIDES THE SOUNDTRACK.

Kym, wandering on along the table like a nomad, wedges

herself between Sidney and Rachel. Emma grabs an empty wine

glass before Kym knocks it over.

Without waiting for a response, Kym dives in with her naan.

She tries to catch a piece of Fish Tikka in her mouth and

misses.

Emma blinks.

The girls clamber up. Kym brushes curry off Rachel's shirt.

ABBY, the girl's mom, and ANDREW, her husband, enter the

dining room. Abby is a beautiful, wise woman in her fifties.

Elegant, ladylike and graceful.

Andrew looks foxy in his Abby-selected Armani, but he has the

shoulders and knuckles of a heavyweight. As the girls

approach, Abby acknowledges Paul across the room but makes no

move to go beyond an exchange of long distance little waves

and tight smiles.

A big hug. She turns to Kym.

They embrace. Abby steps back but keeps her hands on Kym's

shoulders.

He kisses Kym on the cheek. Rachel gives him a big hug.

Abby steps towards her daughters, taking them in.

Abby and Rachel look quickly at Kym.

Kym drags on her cigarette like it's the last Coca Cola in

the desert.

Kieran is making a toast. Dinner is mostly over. Waiters are

discreetly clearing plates, etc. from the table, pouring more

drinks.

TIME CUT -- Emma rises and bangs her glass with her spoon. It

shatters.

Sidney kisses Kieran on the cheek.

Kym, stung, exhales a plume of smoke.

Whoops and hollers.

Bravos all around.

Abby, not looking at her daughter, shushes her.

Abby smiles broadly at Rachel and blows her a kiss.

Kym rises with her glass and takes Emma's place on stage. She

glows in the candlelight.

Low giggles.

Scattered low giggles.

Some guests laugh. Sidney grins. Carol, Paul, Rachel, and

Abby sit silently. Andrew moves in towards his wife.

Everyone is staring at Kym.

Kym thinks this is hysterical. Paul does not.

She lifts her glass and downs it's contents. There is a

smattering of applause.

Kieran stares sympathetically at Kym.

Guests leaving.

Kym drops into a chair in the dining room as Paul, Carol,

Rachel, Sidney, Kieran, and Emma struggle in with several

elaborately wrapped wedding gifts and leftovers from the

rehearsal dinner, which they pile on the dining room table.

Rachel and Sidney are having a quiet, tense exchange.

Rachel glides to the den and drags out the huge dictionary.

Sidney and Emma share a look.

Rachel drops the dictionary on the dining room table.

Kym looks to her father.

Carol returns with a tray and a huge watermelon that's been

impaled with an enormous kitchen knife.

Rachel blinks at her sister.

Carol hands Kym a slice of watermelon.

Rachel giggles.

Sidney and Kieran, staying out of this, exchange a glance.

Rachel just stands there, not saying anything.

Dead silence. Everyone stares at Rachel. Rachel looks at

Sidney. Sidney passes the look right back to her.

Beat, then: HUGE WHOOPS AND HOLLERS!!!!

Paul hugs Rachel and kisses her hair. Sidney and Kieran hug.

Emma hugs Rachel and kisses Sidney. Hugging all around. Kym

is pissed. Paul grabs Kym and Rachel, and hugs both daughters

at once. Rachel and Kym's faces are mushed right next to each

other. Kym is impatient and stiff in the dreaded double mush.

Kym breaks from Paul's vice-like grip.

Beat. All the energy drains out of Rachel.

Kym is gone.

Everyone gathers around Rachel.

He mushes her face and kisses her cheek. Then he mushes

Carol's face.

Sidney intones the opening bars to Paul's heroic "DISHWASHER

THEME". Paul raises the Cautionary Finger in Sidney's

direction. Sidney stops with the music.

Now the Cautionary Finger is levelled at Carol.

Hands in the air, Carol leaves the room.

Kieran lays a manly, buddy hug on Sidney.

Kieran leaves. Now it's just Rachel, Paul and Sidney. Paul is

beaming like a klieg light.

Paul gives Rachel a kiss on the cheek and mushes her face

some more.

Sidney mushes Paul and they attempt a hug and laugh and then

they really hug.

Kieran and Kym lie entangled in the basement, sharing a

cigarette, disheveled. The floor of this entire section of

the basement is now covered with all of the carefully

arranged mattresses and futons that were stacked down here

before. All of Kym's mismatched bags have been moved down

here too. There's a little lamp there now as well but it's

not on. Only one of the small, cobwebby windows casts a

dappled light onto the scene.

Saturday morning. A giant delivery truck drives slowly up the

driveway, delivering the tent for tomorrow's wedding party.

Kym leads Kieran through the labyrinthine rooms of the

basement giving Kieran a guided tour of the subterranean

world of which she was the ruler and where Ethan was her

loyal companion -- the secret hide-and-seek rooms, the

mattress room, the scary little side rooms, etc...

A very stylish, very elegant, very "modern" (in the best

sense) home, lots of grounds, lots of foliage.

Rachel and Abby are seated on Abby's bed, looking through

some family heirlooms in an old alligator jewel case. Rachel

is holding an ornate satin evening purse.

Rachel does.

A neighborhood place, but on the other side of the parkway

from the Buchmans' neighborhood. Friendly, bustling, kids on

bikes and skateboards, etc. Large windows offer a view of a

stop sign, Fanny's Beauty Salon, Soul to Soul Liquor, a

barber shop, etc.

The restaurant is fluorescently lit, with a Jamaican flag on

the wall and photos of Muhammad Ali, Malcolm X, and Bob

Marley. There is a counter at the front where you place your

order and pick up your food. There is a Foosball table, and a

pinball machine.

Kym and Kieran are playing Foosball at the ancient table

where someone has painted Jamaican jerseys on all the

players. They are both viciously competitive and genuinely

irritated with each other.

C/U. The metal balls ricocheting around the interior of the

machine.

They both crack up.

Kym is sharing at today's "12 Step" meeting. Kieran, the

others, listen intently.

Paul, Rachel, Emma, Sidney, and Norman Sklear are sprawled on

the porch eating sandwiches and figuring out the seating

arrangement for the wedding by manipulating tiny origami

chickens, a tiny turtle, Monopoly pieces, spools of thread,

etc...each with a small name tag.

Paul sees Kieran's rental pull up, grins, and calls to

Carol...

Carol emerges with a tray of lemonade as the rental is

rolling to a stop. Kieran and Kym are climbing out of the

car...

Paul sits heavily.

Kieran and Kym arrive on the porch. Kym settles herself on a

big comfy chaise.

Kym turns her face to the sun, shutting her eyes.

CLOSE ON SEATING PLACEMENT BOARD--

Paul moves Kym's "marker" -- the MONOPOLY DOG -- to the

family table.

WIDER--

Rachel pushes the MONOPOLY DOG to a different table.

Kym opens one eye and sees Paul switch markers -- the

MONOPOLY DOG is back at the FAMILY TABLE. Rachel stares at

her father.

CLOSE SHOT--

Rachel moves the Monopoly Dog to another table. Paul looks at

her.

Paul and Rachel alone.

Paul kisses her on the forehead.

They look at each other.

The screen door swings open as Emma, Carol, Sidney, Kieran,

and Norman Sklear carry the lunch plates to the kitchen. Kym

follows, carrying the salt shaker.

Paul gives him a look. Sidney starts humming PAUL'S

DISHWASHER THEME.

Paul takes a moment to size Sidney up then spins on his heel

to the dishwasher.

TIME CUT--

Sidney has his sleeves up and starts to load.

With a flourish, Sidney presents a beautifully stacked

dishwasher. Paul pats his shoulder somberly.

Screaming all around. Kym jumps up and down with her arms on

Rachel's shoulders. Rachel glances at her sister, laughing.

A SWEET MONTAGE.

Paul is loading the dishwasher like a champ.

Carol and Emma are smiling and giggling.

Kieran has his eye on the clock.

Sidney trash talks from the sidelines.

Kym yanks open a cupboard and passes a handful of dishes to

Paul. He begins to load them.

CLOSE ON PAUL

He has a bowl in his hands. We see the bowl is a plastic

child's bowl with Engines and Cabooses all over it. Paul

turns the bowl around in his hands like a steering wheel.

It dawns on Kym that she's handed her father Ethan's bowl.

She is stricken.

Paul looks to Carol. He seems bewildered. The kitchen falls

silent and Carol takes Ethan's bowl and places it in the

sink, out of sight. She leads Paul gently out of the kitchen.

CLOSE ON KYM --

CLOSE ON RACHEL --

She turns and leaves the kitchen. Sidney follows her. Emma

and Norman Sklear step out onto the porch.

Kieran takes the Ethan bowl from the sink and puts it quietly

back in the cupboard and shuts the door. Kym doesn't know

what to do.

The station wagon heading away from the Buchman house.

Rachel is driving, Kym is in the passenger seat. The radio is

on and neither says anything. Kym cranks down the window,

tries to light a cigarette.

Establishing this busy Connecticut city as the station wagon

drives behind a fancy hair salon on the main drag.

Kym and Rachel have foils in their hair, situated a few

chairs apart. Rachel is intently working on a crossword

puzzle.

Rachel silently waggles her fingers.

Kym glances back at her magazine to discover one of the

stylists standing close by, gazing at her face.

Kym does a little double-take.

Kym looks sharply at the stylist, noting his sincere face,

the warmth of his eyes.

Rachel, nearby, grimaces.

He stares deeply, movingly, into Kym's eyes. Awkward.

Kym gives him a quizzical look.

Rachel's stylist is removing her foils while Rachel chokes on

her Diet Pepsi and it comes out her nose. Kym looks nervous.

Rachel looks horrified, holding her hand over her nose.

Rachel slams down her magazine and leaves the salon. Kym runs

after her. Both girls have foils in their hair.

Rachel is being trailed by her sister through the parking

lot.

Rachel doesn't stop. She is searching for her keys in the

fading daylight. Kym catches up, takes Rachel's arm.

Rachel yanks open the car door, jumps in.

Rachel slams the car door shut.

Rachel drives off with a screech, leaving her sister standing

there.

Rachel, yanking the foils out of her hair, perches on the

sofa next to Carol and Paul. She is furious.

Kym comes stomping in. Her foils are still intact.

The three on the couch are stunned for a moment.

Paul bursts out weeping.

Kym, her hair still in foils, rushes out of the house.

Carol turns to Rachel. Rachel bolts upstairs. Carol turns to

Paul. Paul waves her away. Carol is bawling too.

A STATE TROOPER, sitting in his patrol car, looks up from his

coffee as Paul's Mercedes station wagon screeches into a

nearby parking space. The cop watches Kym get out of the car

and stalk into the 7/11.

Steam rises from the surface of Abby's high-tech and

sumptuous bathtub, as she quickly turns the water off and

speaks into her cell phone.

He is alone and the door is shut

INTERCUT the conversation:

Beat. Paul tries to pull himself together. Abby is trembling.

Abby puts her hand to her mouth. INTERCUT with Paul waiting,

then:

Now Abby waits: then

She hangs up.

He hangs up.

The room is piled high with boxes overflowing with tulle and

flowers and glassware. Carol, Sidney, Rachel, Kieran and Emma

are seated around the cheerless dining room table, picking at

the dinner in front of them...even Emma appears to have given

up. She is drinking a lot of wine. Paul returns to the table.

Rachel stabs her dessert with her fork. Her head is on

Sidney's shoulder, she looks pale and exhausted.

Rachel takes Sidney's hand.

Everybody looks at Kieran. No one responds. The phone rings.

Carol goes to get it. Everybody waits.

Emma gives Rachel's arm a squeeze.

Kieran, looking drawn under the fluorescent lights, stands

inside the Jamaican restaurant staring out at the night.

THROUGH THE WINDOW a beat up WHITE HONDA tears ass right

through the stop sign and screeches on up the road. Kieran

flinches.

Abby is in her kitchen preparing tea, dressed in loose-

fitting yoga-style PJs, hair still wet from her bath. A door

opens behind her and Kym emerges from the bathroom rubbing

her hands over her face.

The air seems to go out of Kym for a moment.

Abby picks up the tray, leading the way from the kitchen into

the living room. Trailing behind her, Kym looks around her

mother's unfamiliar house -- the spaciousness and stark

modernity of Andrew's house stand in marked contrast to the

rampant folksy-ness of the Buchman house.

Abby places the tea service on a low table in front of a

sprawling sofa in the stone-walled living room.

Kym sits, pours and sips. Abby remains standing and tightens

the belt of her bathrobe.

Beat.

Kym begins to weep. Abby remains still. Kym's weeping becomes

louder and louder. She is having trouble breathing.

Just as Abby reaches out to touch her...

Abby stops.

Abby closes her fists and beats Kym with all her strength.

Kym curls up protectively and Abby suddenly stops.

Abby swings at Kym again and connects.

Kym punches Abby right back -- twice -- now she is on her

feet.

Both women stop, terrified, and look at each other.

Kym moves toward her mother.

Kym stops. Keeping her back to the door she backs out of her

mother's house.

Kym falls down the front steps. Her nose is bleeding and her

eye starts to swell. Where are the car keys? Here they are.

Where is the door handle? Here it is. She drives off.

Kym driving the station wagon too fast.

--KYM'S P.O.V.: THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD-- Headlights.

Windshield wipers. It's not raining. A curve in the road,

squealing around it. The road forks twenty yards ahead, woods

in between. Left or right? Kym drives straight ahead,

careening off the road, smashing down a couple of saplings,

losing speed, right fender smashing into a big rock --

AIRBAGS blast up into Kym's face -- airbag deflates, Kym's

head falls forward, bangs against the steering wheel. A tiny

moan. That's it.

The station wagon has come to a halt far off the road,

concealed by undergrowth and trees in the foreground. There

is no movement in the car. A Volvo station wagon drives by,

continuing on its way.

Paul, Kieran, and Sidney are seated around the family room.

Paul and Sidney are drinking red wine, Kieran something else.

An empty bottle is in front of them and Sidney is uncorking a

fresh one.

Sidney and Kieran chuckle appreciatively. Paul joins the

laughter, pours some more wine.

Rachel and Emma are curled up in the middle of the bed, spoon-

style, with clothes still on. Emma is behind Rachel, lost to

the world, gently snoring. Rachel's eyes are wide open.

Carol swings the door cautiously open and peers inside.

Rachel and Carol look at each other for a long time. Carol

withdraws, closing the door behind her.

The station wagon seen just as before. A couple of joggers

lope by on the road.

Kym jolts awake as a STAMFORD POLICEMAN raps on her closed

window. She is a mess. A black eye. A split, bloody lip. A

gash across her forehead.

The cop is simultaneously gesturing for her to roll her

window down and speaking into his radio.

Kym tries to start the car. No luck.

The cop bangs on the window.

Kym leans her head against the steering wheel. The horn

starts blowing.

The joggers, a couple of early dogwalkers, and a couple of

kids on bikes are gathered by the roadside, whispering and

watching.

NOW -- The cop is studying Kym's license and registration.

NOW -- An AMBULANCE has arrived. Red lights flashing.

The crowd of onlookers has swelled considerably.

NOW -- The cop gives a clearly upset Kym a Breathalyzer test

as PARAMEDICS wrap a pressure cuff around her arm -- she

exhales into the Breathalyzer tube, her eyes darting between

the cop, the cracked windshield of the car and the gawking

crowd up on the road.

TIME CUT -- The paramedic holds Kym firmly by the chin

and peers deeply into her right eye. The other paramedic

blots at Kym's swollen lip with a gauze and hands her an ice

pack.

TIME CUT -- The cop gives Kym her license and hands her

an official looking form, which she stuffs in her shoulder

bag.

A truck towing the beat-up station wagon comes to a halt in

the street in front of the Buchman house. Kym steps down from

the passenger seat, ignoring whatever the driver just said in

parting.

The house is festooned with peonies and lights and WORKERS

hurrying about. Everything looks absolutely beautiful.

CATERERS are running from their vans into the house with

armloads of food, drinks, etc. Abby's flowers are being

unloaded from another van. Decorative chandeliers are being

carried inside.

VALETS are setting up their car-parking operation (a

decorated picnic table) at the foot of the driveway.

Kym squares her shoulders and begins her long walk up to the

Buchman house, back into the chaos.

A CUTE VALET passes Kym on the lawn, carrying two paper cups

of coffee, dressed in an Indian military tunic. He takes in

Kym's disheveled and bruised appearance.

Kym continues her walk toward the house.

Kym keeps walking, ignoring him.

Paul and Carol, beautifully dressed, appear on the front

porch and hurry towards Kym.

They meet at the circular driveway.

Beat.

He tries to touch her. She stops his hand. Paul backs off.

Paul looks helplessly at his wife.

Kym runs onto the porch as a group of GOFERS carry more of

Abby's flowers through the front door.

Emma is on the front porch filling balloons with helium,

assisted by the kids from next door. Emma inhales from a

balloon as she sees Kym.

Kieran is in the living room on his cell phone when he spots

Kym. Behind him we see Norman Sklear, Matt and Innbo removing

the last of the living room furniture to the rear patio.

KYM'S P.O.V. -- charging up the stairs.

Also known as the bridal chamber.

Kym yanks the door open and Rachel jumps a mile.

She is dressed in her Sari and huge gold earrings and looks

beautiful, despite a lack of sleep.

Seeing her bashed up sister framed in the doorway, Rachel

fights tears. She loses.

Kym looks completely desperate. She nods. Rachel's face

contorts with rage as she steps forward and slams the bedroom

door in Kym's face.

Kym winces.

Beat.

Rachel yanks the door open again.

Rachel has run a bath for her sister. She has removed her

sari but not her earrings.

Kym is in the bath. Her body is bruised and purple.

Rachel dabs gently at Kym's face with a washcloth while Kym

scrubs at her nails with a brush.

She glides the soapy washcloth over Kym's back. She notices

the word ethan inscribed within the design of the rose and

thorns image tattooed on Kym's left shoulder.

Rachel rinses shampoo and leaves and dirt out of her sister's

hair while Kym brushes her teeth.

Rachel dabs makeup on Kym's chin as Kym's hands tremble with

the mascara.

Back in her wedding Sari, Rachel wraps Kym in her

bridesmaid's gown and puts some Lilies of the Valley in her

hair.

Kym nods.

THE CEREMONY -- Guests, some standing, some in white chairs.

The living room is festooned with wall to wall flowers. A

canopy of cherry blossoms leads from the living room terrace

to the opened living room doors. Sidney, looking stunning in

a dove grey Nehru suit and a lavender pocket square, waits at

the altar with groomsmen Kieran, Norman Sklear, and Cousin

Joseph (now wearing full dress U.S. Army uniform)... and

officiating JUDGE CASTLE.

SFX: LIVE MUSIC -- "Here Comes The Bride" on distant electric

guitar and drums plus foreground violin and gently chanted

"Rachel's" and "Sidney's" by the assembled friends.

Emma's smiling face fills the frame as the ceremony begins.

Bridesmaids Emma, Kayra Williams, Victoria, and - -

THE MAID OF HONOR!--

Kym in her dress with her striped hair, split lip and black

eye, trying to find her game face. The wedding guests are

slack-jawed. Mrs. Williams (Sidney's mom) looks like she's

passing a stone.

Abby stands quietly with Andrew in the first row. She looks

composed and lovely and has the tiniest hint of a bruise on

her chin.

The procession reaches the altar and the wedding party turns

to face Rachel and Paul.

Paul is beaming, walking his beautiful daughter from the side

of the house and across the terrace to the living room. She

glows in her white and gold Sari.

They reach the altar of blossoms. Rachel kisses her dad's

cheek and he hugs her. Things are set up so that Rachel and

Sidney stand just inside the living room, facing the

beautiful backyard.

Kym reaches for Rachel's bouquet but Rachel has handed it to

Emma by reflex. Kym tries to cover her gesture.

Rachel and Sidney join hands.

Somebody's baby starts to cry.

Everybody cracks up, especially Kym. She laughs a beat longer

than anybody else.

Rachel and Sidney are saying their vows.

Rachel is crying. Sidney takes his pocket square and

carefully dries her tears.

Abby is drying her own eyes.

Rachel makes her own declaration to Sidney.

Norman Sklear hands Sidney an acoustic guitar and Sidney

strums it and plucks a delicate melody.

The guests join in on the last chorus, with spontaneous ad-

lib instrumentation from some of the musician friends. The

song ends with a huge eruption of laughter and applause.

Big Kiss! Lots of screaming and laughing. Huge applause.

Carol and Mr. Williams throw pink and white confetti hearts.

Kym applauds wildly and is crying her eyes out.

Paul weeps openly. Carol breathes a sigh of relief.

POST-CEREMONY LUNCH -- the whole Wedding Party Inner Circle,

everybody, is enjoying barbecue, oysters, Vegetarian Supreme,

beers, wine, various other chill-juices and snackettes -- on

the back terrace, around the swimming pool and spread out at

picnic tables and blankets across the expansive back lawn.

The exotic reception party tent stands proudly and invitingly

down the slope.

THE MUSICIAN FRIENDS are playing their version of "Rachel

Loves Sidney." Some guests have removed as many layers of

clothing as weather permits. Some -- including Sidney and

Rachel -- have even changed into Bermudas and sweatshirts for

the moment.

Rachel and Sidney are serving second helpings to their

friends.

Abby and Andrew are at a table eating and chatting with the

Chicago Cousins, the Rosenzweigs, and Cookie Puss.

Kym is tying a LITTLE BOY'S balloon to his wrist. She looks

over at her mother.

Abby is deep in conversation with Andrew. She tucks a stray

hair behind his ear.

"CUTTING THE CAKE"--

A MULTI-TIERED WEDDING CAKE, WEDGEWOOD BLUE, IN THE SHAPE OF

AN ELEPHANT, WITH TWO TINY PLASTIC ASTRONAUTS SITTING ON TOP.

Rachel and Sidney are cutting the cake.

He samples the frosting.

Rachel licks the frosting off Sidney's finger then gives his

mom a big wholesome smile.

Mrs. Williams shakes her head but she's okay with this.

Reshuffling as Sidney, his parents, Kayra, and Rachel, Paul,

Carol and Kym each place a hand on the silver cake knife.

With nowhere else to stand, Abby lays her fingers lightly on

Kym's wrist. Emma's AUNT JOYCE, a cool professional photog,

SNAPS THE PICTURE.

Rachel suddenly stands on a chair and bangs on a glass with a

spoon.

Surprised whooping and hollering.

Abby smiles.

SFX: The Deejay spins an infectious platter (TBD).

She drags Paul to the temporary poolside patio dance floor.

Paul is a fantastic dancer! Sidney drags his dad to the dance

floor. He's dramatic and weird! Abby smiles politely at Kym

and goes to sit down with Andrew. Kieran spirits Kym to the

patio, where they join the dancers.

THE RECEIVING LINE -- All members of both families are lined

up outside the entrance to the tent to greet the INNER CIRCLE

GANG and the LUCKY FEW OUTSIDERS who have been invited to

this evening's gala wedding reception party. It is twilight.

Everybody is spruced and rested. Rachel and Sidney have

changed into awesome party outfits.

Inside the tent, yet another group of musician friends are

currently laying down an evocative, hypnotic and extremely

cool, jazzy "world music" groove as the same attractive and

immaculate young servers (from the rehearsal dinner)

circulate with trays of delicious appetizers, wine, seltzer,

etc.

Kym is still wearing her sari. She stands next to her mother.

They are doing their wedding party duties. Neither woman is

looking at the other.

QUICK CUTS OF KYM

Angela sports an intense tattooed image on the inside of her

right forearm. Her face features a unique piercing. Kym hugs

her. Their reunion makes her cry...Angela is nice.

The tent is fairly packed now with about 60-SOME ODD PEOPLE.

Everybody is getting along fine. With a single dramatic

gesture, Norman Sklear silences the band. Upon Norman's

instructions, the drummer works his cymbals in such a way

that the party-goers realize that something big is about to

happen. Norman Sklear now gestures for complete silence and

he gets it.

Rachel and Emma grin madly at each other.

SFX: LIVE BRAZILIAN PERCUSSION SLOWLY BUILDING, GROWING

LOUDER approaching the tent entrance from the moonlit

backyard.

ALL EYES ON THE ENTRANCE -- the swimming pool lights

shimmering outside as --

--FOUR SEXY BRAZILIAN DRUMMERS AND FOUR GORGEOUS BRAZILIAN

CARNIVAL GIRLS COMPLETE WITH HEADDRESSES AND FEATHERS DANCE

INTO THE MIDDLE OF THE CROWD! The musicians blow whistles and

bang on drums. The cafe-au-lait beauties gyrate and pull

guests out of their chairs.

Rachel leaps from her chair into Sidney's arms and he gives

her a huge, sexy kiss as he rubs her tummy. Wedding guests

scream with delight and rush to the floor.

The drummers become more   impassioned with every beat. They

travel allover the dance   floor, a trail of guests behind

them. Sweat is dripping,   the girls are glistening wet, the

guests are pulled into a   massive pulsing heartbeat on the

dance floor.

Emma, Kayra and Victoria are dancing together screaming until

Cousin Joseph, Matt and another male friend muscle their way

in.

Little kids swing each other around in circles.

Rachel and Sidney are practically doing it on the dance

floor. A Brazilian beauty shimmies over to them, her

headdress bobbing, her smile enormous.

Sidney immediately puts his head on her bosom. After a beat

Rachel does too, laughing.

SFX: POUNDING BRAZILIAN DRUMS

Carol stands quietly besides Paul and takes his hand and

whispers to him. Though not dancing, they are clearly

enjoying the carnival. Paul gives a little shimmy.

Abby and Andrew are huddled together at a table, talking

intensely. It's like they are blind to the spectacle.

Kieran offers his hand to Kym. She leaps up, spilling her

flowers. Kieran pulls her to the middle of the crowd. They

circle each other. They come together almost violently and

dance like there's no tomorrow. Kym's head is thrown back.

Shoulders heaving, Kieran swings her around by the waist.

SFX: DRUMMERS DRIVING THE PARTY FASTER AND FASTER.

Emma shimmies wildly with her partner, her hair a mess.

Mr. and Mrs. Williams clapping wildly and doing the

limbo/hustle/drunken parent dance.

Guests stomping and cheering.

The brown, glittering dancers are shaking thisclose to the

drummers who have their shirts off.

A dancer rocks with an older gentleman who gulps oxygen from

a tank.

Rachel and Sidney are bathed in sweat, kissing. Sidney is

gulping champagne.

Kieran and Kym have their foreheads together and their eyes

closed, chests heaving.

DRUMS CRESCENDO

Carol and Paul watching, laughing.

Andrew whispering in Abby's ear. She just stares off.

Kieran and Kym glued together.

Rachel tossing her hair wildly, Sidney behind her.

Everyone laughing, laughing, dancing.

DRUMS STOP!!!

HUGE WHOOPS AND HOLLERS!!!

The exotic tent looks beautiful out there in the sprawling

backyard, reflections of the POOL LIGHTS shimmering off its

sides. The whole backyard is enchanted -- with magically

deployed twinkle lights, Japanese lanterns and other special

lighting effects adding to the aura...

"Rachel Loves Sidney" is being played in a mellow, super-

romantic trumpet solo mode now by Christian Scott.

An assorted bunch of guests have relocated to the poolside

patio in their finery. The oxygen guy and his matronly wife

are seated on a transplanted living room couch, talking

intently to a be-feathered headdressed Dancer.

Norman Sklear and Emma are sharing a stylish, quietly

triumphant slow dance, whispering punctuated by gusts of

laughter. Angela Paylin is out there too.

Little kids are running around the lawn and a few are playing

with OLIVE the Dog.

Kym kneels at the far corner of the swimming pool, unnoticed

by anyone. A wooden serving tray floats on the surface of the

water, supporting a candle wrapped in rice paper. A couple of

smaller candles surround the slightly larger one. Kym lights

the candles, extinguishes the match, gently slides the

illuminated tray out towards the center of the pool, watches.

Kym rises and walks towards the house, looking for something.

She executes a truly terrible handstand.

The girl throws a rebellious dance move in Kym's direction.

The girl laughs and runs off.

Kym crosses the back terrace and enters the living room

through the flower bedecked canopy....

where she finds Rachel and Sidney slow dancing alone and

dreamy in the center of the darkened room, the walls still

covered with the ceremonial flowers. A single candle flickers

nearby.

The dancers are oblivious to Kym's presence.

Rachel has her head on Sidney's shoulder, her eyes closed.

Suddenly Kieran sweeps into the room.

Kym shrieks as Kieran grabs her and plants a wet one on her,

dipping her to the floor. They careen into Sidney and Rachel.

Sidney grabs Rachel and starts molesting her.

Rachel and Sidney fall to the floor writhing, sounding way

too amorous. Then:

The ceiling light flicks on overhead and Abby enters the

living room. Blinking against the light, Rachel struggles to

her feet smoothing her dress.

Kieran is busting a gut not to laugh.

Andrew pops his head in.

Kym doesn't say anything.

She bends in for a kiss.

Rachel wraps one arm around Kym's neck and the other round

her mother and hugs them both to her. She has her eyes open.

They have their eyes open. They are stiff as boards.

Rachel stops hugging and looks from one to the other.

Her mom and sister look at her and each other.

Beat.

She pats Rachel's tummy.

Kym and Rachel watch their mother leave the room.

Kym sees Abby and Andrew crossing the front porch through the

window.

Kym moves quickly from the room.

Kym is heading for the front door, when Paul breaks away from

a group of guests having coffee in the dining room and nabs

her, pulling her into a conversation with a WEDDING GUEST.

Kym is looking out the dining room window between Paul and

Susanna -- she spots Abby and Andrew walking down the

driveway towards the VALETS at the street.

Susanna and Paul laugh.

She hands Kym a business card and kisses Paul on the cheek.

She leaves.

At the edge of the porch Kym sees Abby standing in the

moonlight at the front of the driveway with Andrew, waiting

for their car. Kym pauses.

Abby turns her head slightly in Kym's direction.

Kym, in the half dark, watches her mother.

Abby does not move a muscle.

Kym steps off the porch.

The valet pulls up in the car, jumps out.

Abby fixes her gaze on Andrew as he opens the door for her.

They drive off.

CLOSE ON KYM

The Absolute End of a Wedding. The place is a gorgeous mess

of wedding detritus.

The tent looks so lonely. A weary caterer packs away his

trays.

Kieran is talking and smoking with Sidney at the end of the

lawn.

A freshly scrubbed Kym, in her own clothes, takes a moment in

Ethan's room. She collects a few snapshots of her sister and

brother and stuffs them in her shoulder bag.

As Kym approaches the stairs, Emma staggers into the hallway,

bleary-eyed. She is in her underwear, heading for the

bathroom. She stops at the sight of Kym. They stare at each

other. Emma gives a tiny wave. Kym responds, heads down the

stairs.

Kym slipping quietly downstairs. She moves to collect her

weird mish-mash of bags waiting by the door.

Kieran is there.

Kieran hands Kym a folded piece of paper.

He smiles, kisses her, tenderly. She hugs him fiercely.

Kym looks back in through the window, sees her father awake,

in his robe, tired, gamely tidying.

Carol comes up behind Paul, envelopes him in a gentle bear

hug.

A `98 maroon CAMRY is idling in the circular driveway out

front, exhaust vaporizing against the chilly morning air. A

cute two-year-old girl is visible in a carseat and Rosa, the

staff nurse from Kym's halfway house, is at the wheel. The

car radio plays quietly as Kym opens the passenger door,

wiggling her finger at the little girl.

Like a ghost, Rachel appears on the porch.

Kym jumps a little.

The sisters lock eyes.

Kym looks pained. Paul is still moving around in there. She

wants to go.

Rachel floats down the porch stairs and joins her sister at

the car.

She takes in Rosa who meets Rachel's look with a nod.

Rachel nods. Kym is crying.

Rachel hugs her sister fiercely.

Kym gets into the passenger seat but leaves the car door

open.

Rachel smiles her huge, luminous smile.

Kym shuts the car door and rolls down the window.

Rachel mouths "Bye" and gives a little wave.

The car pulls out of the driveway, Carol watching it go from

the dining room window.

