<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Rebel Without A Cause

JIM'S GRANDMA: A chic, domineering woman in her sixties who

JIM'S FATHER: Frank is an unfeathered man who has never been

JIM'S MOTHER: Tense and immature, she has never found the

JIM: The angry victim and the result.  At seventeen he is

JUDY'S FATHER: a junior partner in a law firm.  Boyish,

JUDY'S MOTHER: Self-centered and frightened by the coming of

JUDY: The victim and the result.  At sixteen, she is in a

BEAU: Judy's brother.  Because he is very young he is a

PLATO: Son of a divided family--an absent father and a

BUZZ: A sado-masochistic boy of seventeen, who acts out

HELEN, CRUNCH, MOOSE, GOON, CHICK, COOKIE, MIL: All

FADE IN.

A deep night sky.  Matte shot.  Camera searches slowly

upward through the heavens and the silver tone of a bell is

heard sounding the strokes of midnight.

On the final note of the bell, camera is full on the Milky

Way and there it rests, just long enough for a burst of

Easter singing to arise.  The hymn is sung by the crude,

unmatched voices of children.  Camera pans down to include:

Spire of a church.  Camera continues its downward pan as the

singing continues and we pass a window beyond which is the

source of the singing.  Camera pans off window to show--

Long shot.  City.  Night.  Suddenly revealed--crisp and

sparkling with lights.  Camera pans down and over:

A lonely street full of parked cars.  The singing diminishes

but a thread of it remains.  A car has just parked.  The

headlights snap off.  A MAN emerges whistling the same

melody and pulls some gifts from the front seat.  He slams

the door and starts down the street in the direction of a

house with bright windows.  He must pass an empty lot full

of rusty grass and litter which lies in darkness between two

street lights.

As the MAN walks by the lot, still whistling, a GROUP OF

FIGURES rises silently from the grass, figures who have been

lying in concealment until now.  They step noiselessly onto

the pavement and follow the MAN.  At the sound of their

boots the whistling stops.

The MAN glances behind him and sees the figures walking

after him, filling the pavement.  A street light shows them

to be boys and girls and all quite young.  The MAN moves on

more swiftly and the sound of their pursuit increases.  He

begins to run toward the lighted house and the following

steps run too.  Suddenly he stops under the next street

light and turns to face the figures.  They are upon him and

around him quickly.  Nobody speaks for a moment, then one of

the boys grins.  His name is BUZZ.  He is big and filled

with an awareness of his own masculinity.

The MAN whistles a nervous phrase, trying to make a joke of

the situation which he doesn't understand.

The MAN fumbles in his pocket, finds a pack and drops it in

his nervousness.  The FIGURES wait until he picks it up.  He

offers one to BUZZ.

Smiling uncertainly, the MAN puts the cigarette in his mouth.

BUZZ, still smiling, takes out a packet of wooden matches.

BUZZ ignites a match and holds it near the Man's face for a

second, searching it.  Then he ignites the whole box under

his nose.  The MAN shrieks, and his packages fall.  BUZZ

slaps him sharply, his smile gone.

The camera pans away as the figures enclose him, and holds

on a small mechanical monkey which has dropped from its

wrappings.  It begins to dance madly on the pavement, then

runs down.

The feet of the figures scatter past the unmoving monkey.

Then camera rises to show that the man has disappeared.

There is a moment of awful stillness, then we see a boy

coming down the street alone.  He is quite drunk, and he

slips once.  This is JIM, a good-looking kid of seventeen

with a crew-cut and wearing a good suit.  The spilled

packages on the pavement stop him.  He bends down to see

what they are and picks up the mechanical monkey from the

wreckage.  He smiles and winds it up.  He sets it on the

sidewalk and sits down.  He watches it dance for a moment,

happily.  A siren is heard distantly, growing louder.  JIM

pays no attention to it as he winds the monkey again and

releases it for its dance.

SUPERIMPOSE TITLE: "REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE" STARRING ____ as

siren rises piercingly close, and JIM looks up, we:

Close shot.  Throbbing light of police car.  Night.  The

siren screaming wildly, then dying.  The sound of brakes.

Camera moves to reveal the police car stopped at the

entrance of a Precinct Station.  Two officers dismount,

bearing between them the struggling JIM.  They bear him up

the steps and in through the double doors.

Inside precinct station. Reception area.  A large open space

onto which several corridors converge.  In the middle is a

Sergeant's desk, really a quadrangular counter in the center

of which the SERGEANT stands.  There are a few glass-walked

interviewing rooms which open off the area, and several

benches lining the walls.  The scene is one of confusion,

activity and waiting.  Phones ring.  The arrested pass in

custody of officers.  Present among others at JIM's entrance

are: JUDY, who is blonde and sixteen.  She sits on a crowded

bench wearing an expression of downcast bitterness.  On a

bench across the way from her are three remarkably dirty

little Mexican children without shoes or socks.  The oldest

is a BOY of four who is protecting his little SISTER who in

turn mothers an infant crying on the bench beside her.

Standing at a corner of the desk is a docile, undersized boy

of fifteen named JOHN "PLATO" CRAWFORD.  He is shivering.

With him is a large NEGRO WOMAN, his maid.  JIM comes

through the doors and is led to the desk.  One of the

officers presents a brief report to the SERGEANT, who

examines it.

The officer leads JIM to JUDY's bench and stands him against

the wall beside it.

JIM is frisked, a look of prayer on his upturned face.  The

OFFICER finds the toy monkey in his pocket and would take

it, but when JIM asks to keep it, the OFFICER hands it back

and moves away.  Another officer enters and leads the

prisoner who is sitting next to JUDY into another room.  JIM

sits beside her.  He smiles at her but receives only a

chilling look.  He winds the monkey up and sets it dancing

on the floor, but she is not amused.  Camera pans to show

others reacting to the monkey with pleasure.  We see PLATO

look up and smile a little.  Camera stops on the MEXICAN

CHILDREN who are smiling too.  A bald JUVENILE OFFICER named

GENE, squats before them, smiling.

The little boy shakes his head.

GENE laughs as another Juvenile Officer enters and pauses to

look at the children.  His name is RAY.

RAY and GENE exchange looks, then RAY moves across to JUDY--

camera following.  He looks down at her, consults the file

in his hand.

She rises.  RAY leads her to one of the glass-walled offices.

Camera moves with them.  JIM watches them go.

RAY leads her into the office.

Inside small office as JUDY comes in, RAY following.  He

indicates a chair for her while he sits down behind a desk.

She starts to cry.  She doesn't hide it, but keeps wiping

the tears with the palms of her hands.

JUDY looks up hopefully.

Camera moves close on JUDY.  She looks up and speaks very

quietly.

The wail of a siren is heard.  JUDY looks off through the

glass wall toward JIM.  RAY is heard dialing.

Med. shot.  JIM's bench.  JIM sits with his head back, eyes

closed.  As the siren mounts louder, JIM opens his mouth and

imitates it--a long, forlorn wail.

Med. shot, PLATO and NEGRO WOMAN.  PLATO smiles faintly and

moves out toward JIM, NEGRO WOMAN following.  Camera pans

with them.  PLATO sits by JIM.  She stands over them.  JIM's

wailing continues.

Med. shot.  JIM, PLATO, NEGRO WOMAN.  An OFFICER moves into

shot.

JIM continues for a moment.

The OFFICER moves out.  The NEGRO WOMAN bends over PLATO who

is shivering violently.

PLATO shakes his head.  JIM notices him.

PLATO looks up at JIM.

PLATO wants it but shakes his head "no."

Full shot.  JUDY's office.  RAY and JUDY seated as before.

JUDY is still gazing through the glass.

RAY signals to a WOMAN OFFICER just outside and leads JUDY

to the door.

Outside door as RAY turns JUDY over to the WOMAN OFFICER.

JUDY doesn't answer.  RAY goes back inside as camera leads

the WOMAN OFFICER and JUDY past JIM's bench.  Camera stops

on JIM, PLATO and the NEGRO WOMAN.  JIM stares at JUDY and

whistles but gets no reaction.  GENE enters and comes to the

NEGRO WOMAN.

PLATO rises and goes with GENE, the NEGRO WOMAN following.

JIM is alone.  He closes his eyes, throws his head back and

gives another siren wail as camera moves close on his face.

JIM looks up suddenly, scared.  Then he smiles mysteriously

and staggers to his feet.

Low angle.  Tight three.  JIM's parents and grandma framed

in the doorway, frozen.  They are all dressed in evening

clothes.  The MOTHER is a very chic but rather hard-faced

woman.  The FATHER is an unfeathered man.  The GRANDMA is

the smallest, also very chic and very bright-eyed.

Med. shot.  JIM as he faces them.

Tight shot.  The family.

Silence.

Close shot.  JIM.  He says nothing.

Close shot.  FATHER laughing uncomfortably.

Med. shot.  JIM.

JIM turns suddenly and walks to the glass wall of the office

behind which PLATO, the NEGRO WOMAN and GENE are visible.

He looks through the glass partition which separates him

from PLATO.

Inside office.  JIM is seen through the glass.  He moves

away.  PLATO is still shivering, cracking his knuckles.

PLATO is silent.

PLATO looks up as JIM and his family move into the next

office.  JIM smiles at PLATO, who returns it feebly, then

looks away--embarrassed.

Other office.  JIM, his parents, GRANDMA and RAY are

gathered in the small room.  JIM is humming THE RIDE OF THE

VALKRYIES to himself as if he had absolutely no interest in

what is happening around him.  RAY suspects this is

something more than mere disinterest, so lets the humming go

on, in order to discover its real purpose.  GRANDMA watches

everything like a tennis match, reacting with soft little

sounds of terror or astonishment or sympathy.  No one pays

any attention to her.  For a moment no one talks.  RAY

watches JIM as he hums.  Then the FATHER shakes his head and

looks up.

JIM merely rolls his eyes at her, then away--but continues

his humming.

JIM stops humming and shrugs.

JIM shakes his head.

Silence; JIM is fighting his emotion but his eyes grow wet.

JIM stares straight ahead, trying not to listen.

RAY pushes him out the door firmly, and into office vacated

by PLATO and GENE.

GENE's office.  RAY and JIM alone.

No answer.  JIM turns away from RAY.

Suddenly JIM flings himself at RAY who deftly flips him past

and drops him near the desk.

JIM starts crying.

JIM smashes his fist against it, letting loose for a moment.

RAY watches, then sits near him.

RAY just nods.

JIM is silent; he picks at his nails.

JIM stares at his family through hole in door.

RAY shrugs.

RAY smiles and opens the door.

RAY's office as JIM comes towards his MOTHER and forces

himself to kiss her.

She rises and takes his arm.  They start out through the

door into the hall, followed by GRANDMA and FATHER.

JIM grins at RAY who nods.  They all leave.  RAY looking

after them, shakes his head and lights a cigarette.  We see

JIM and his family pass through the main door.  Waiting to

enter, in the custody of some uniformed police, are BUZZ and

the kids we saw at the opening, sullen and truculent.  As

they march into the lobby and JIM grows smaller in the

distance, the music comes up and out.

FADE IN.

Low angle.  Alley.  Morning.  A rabbit comes running down

the alley followed by a group of young kids, screaming with

pleasure.

As camera pans with the group, the littlest, a boy of five,

stops near us looking after the disappearing group.  The

shouts of the children wane.

JUDY rushes out from a backyard beyond him.  She is carrying

school books and a bag lunch.  She wears a polo coat against

the winter wind.

The boy, who is her brother, BEAU, looks up but doesn't move.

JUDY stops at her gate.  A car careens down the alley, past

him.

Long shot.  JUDY and BEAU seen through a window in JIM's

house.  JIM is in f.g. looking out through the curtains.  He

smiles.

JIM turns from window and passes camera.

Full shot JIM's dining room.  The MOTHER is just settling a

plate of eggs at JIM's place.  They FATHER is seated,

drinking coffee and looking at the newspaper.  GRANDMA comes

in from kitchen.  JIM is neatly dressed in tie, tweed jacket

and slacks.

JIM makes a mouth-stuck-together-with-peanut-butter sound.

But JIM is on his way out.

Full shot.  JIM's backyard as JIM comes out of the kitchen

door into the early sunshine.

JIM blinks, pauses and sees JUDY.  He takes off his tie and

puts it in his pocket.  Then he starts across the backyard,

camera panning with him to:

Full shot.  The Alley with JIM coming out his gate, JUDY and

BEAU visible beyond.  He stops again.

She starts down the alley.  BEAU skips after her and starts

tightrope-walking the gutter gravel.

JUDY glances at him briefly, but continues.  JIM follows a

few yards, but on his side of the alley.

JUDY ignores him, but something self-conscious happens to

her walk.  JIM runs across the alley.

Med. shot.  JUDY stopping as JIM enters.  BEAU tight-rope

walking on down the hill.

JUDY looks up a little surprised.

An auto horn, stuck, in the distance.

The horn approaches, loud.

Another angle.  JIM and JUDY as the car, horn blowing,

wheels into view above them and comes careening into the

alley.  JUDY sees it and moves a step away from JIM.

JUDY is moving toward the car.

Med. shot.  Car full of kids as it comes to a jolting stop

near JUDY.  The boys wear suede coats, leather jackets,

black peggers, boots.  Their clothing is not uniform--it is

the air they assume which is uniform: swaggering, self-

conscious, piratical.  Someone is always combing his hair.

The driver is BUZZ, whom we recognize as the leader of the

stomp gang we met on Easter.  He wears a leather jacket.

With him are CHICK, a slight bespectacled lad; CRUNCH,

BUZZ's first lieutenant; COOKIE, a hanger-on; GOON, a

character; and the girls HELEN and MILLIE.  The kids are

screaming as BUZZ jams on the brakes.  JUDY comes forward.

JIM hangs back.

JUDY comes to them quickly, smiling.

JUDY and BUZZ kiss ardently and without love.  JIM goes for

his car.

During this JIM has gotten his car and has driven up.

Simultaneously, the kids laugh wildly.  The radio blares.

JUDy lays her head on BUZZ's shoulder and his arm goes

around her as the car zooms away.  JIM looks after them a

moment, then follows.

Close shot.  Bicycle rack.  Wheels spin in, one after

another and drive straight into their slots.  As the nearest

bike moves in:

Med. shot.  PLATO just getting off his motor scooter.  He

comes forward, passes camera which pans with him then

stops--as the school is suddenly revealed.  Music starts

with a crash and keeps mounting through the following.

PLATO sighs and moves away from us to join the parade of

students filling the Main approach.

Parking lot as cars scream into their places noisily.  JIM

gets out of one and comes forward.  A motorcycle roars by,

just missing him.  JIM stares off and starts to move as

camera pans with him to:

Another angle.  School.  Another crash of music.  JIM moves

toward the parade.

Full shot.  Mid-way down main approach.  A number of kids

pass, gossiping happily as they greet each other for the

first time since vacation.  Camera searches over them and

stops upon our special group moving toward us--BUZZ, JUDY

and the rest, all abreast.  Others must park at their

passage or be elbowed out of the way, staring resentfully,

but not daring to challenge the group's priority.  PLATO

runs forward, past them.

Door from within bouncing from hand to hand as students

enter.  PLATO moves through the door and disappears in a

milling of kids.  JUDY enters with her group and moves on

with them.

Med. shot.  Monitor (inside corridor).  The Monitor is an

athletic letter-sweater boy with an arm brassard that bears

the letters "HC".  Kids pour past him.  JIM enters.

JIM moves out.

Angle shot.  Corridor.  Shooting past a row of steel lockers.

The clash and slam of doors as kids throw in coats, pull out

books and primp for the day ahead.  PLATO comes to his

locker, which is the nearest, and opens it.

Full shot.  Corridor.  JIM moves toward us from the distance.

Crowded at the entrance to a classroom in f.g. are JUDY and

her pals.  They are sneaking a smoke, passing the cigarette

from one cupped hand to another.  As JIM comes near, JUDY

sees him.  So do the others.  They fold their arms across

their chests and whistle "We are the girls of the

institute"--all but JUDY.  JIM glances at her and continues

on past camera.  A bell starts ringing crazily over the music.

Close shot.  PLATO.  He is straightening his tie in the

mirror.  Above it, pasted to the locker door, is a still of

Alan Ladd.  In the mirror we can see JIM moving past.  PLATO

sees him too.  He wheels around and stares.

The strident music of the students diminishes.  The ringing

of the bell stops.  There remain only JIM's footsteps.

Long shot.  JIM moving off down the corridor.  PLATO is in

f.g. looking after him.  He slams his locker and starts

after JIM, moving at the same speed and hovering near the

wall.  The footsteps of the two boys echo stonily.  They are

alone.  JIM stops at a bulletin board near a bend in the

corridor.  PLATO stops too.

Bulletin board.  JIM looking at the notices.  PLATO drifts

in several yards away and hangs near the wall watching JIM

who doesn't see him.  JIM reads:

Insert: Bulletin board, "Attention All Juniors and Seniors"--

Planetarium field trip--2 pm--Sharp!"

Another angle.  JIM and PLATO as JIM turns from bulletin

board and starts away.

JIM starts toward camera as PLATO after another look, turns

in the opposite direction and walks away from us, smashing

his fist against the wall as he goes.  JIM stops, full in

camera.  His face clouds, trying to remember.  He turns full

around to look after PLATO, then turns back and continues on

his way.  The footsteps fade.

Full shot.  Planetarium seen from the parking lot--a great

dome crowns it--the city lies below.  Camera picks up JIM's

car maneuvering through the crowded lot.  In b.g. a few

other late-comers are dashing up steps to Planetarium.  JIM

drives into a small lot behind observator, parks, then runs

to observatory entrance.

Full shot.  Lobby as JIM runs through, opens door of theater

and passes inside.

Long shot.  Sky full of stars seen past JIM's head.

Darkness.  This is not our sky.  It is a replica of it

projected onto the dome of the Planetarium.  The stars slide

their tentative ways in an ever-changing pattern.  One of

them is much larger than the rest and increases in size as

we watch.  Music of the spheres is heard--a high threatening

tremolo.

JIM looks around for a seat and passes down aisle.  Seen

beyond him is the projector, moving slowly, its great dumb-

bell head sparkling with pin-points of light.  JIM takes a

seat in front row.  PLATO, in the row behind him, moves over

a seat to be nearer.  They exchange looks.

Full shot.  Normal students watching intently.

Low angle.  LECTURER.  A dry, elderly man in a stiff white

collar.  He is seated at a desk, the light from the reading

lamp spilling upward onto his face.

Angle shot.  Students.  Some watching, some taking notes.

An OLD LADY TEACHER in f.g. taps the heads of two kids in

the row before her.  They stop their whispering.  She smiles

at them.

Med. shot.  PLATO staring upward.

PLATO looks off.

Med. shot.  JIM (from PLATO's angle).  JIM is seated in the

row ahead of PLATO.  His lips are parted as he looks up.

Two shot.  JUDY and BUZZ.  BUZZ has his arm around her.  He

is nuzzling her ear.  She is blandly watching the dome.

BUZZ pokes JUDY who looks at him.  He curves his wrist

toward her, opening and closing his first two fingers like

the pincers of a crab.

She laughs.  So do the others.

Med. shot. JIM (PLATO behind).  Seen from JUDY's angle.  JIM

turns at the sound of the laughter, and smiles.

He waits for approval.

Angle shot.  JUDY, BUZZ and group (seen from JIM's angle).

He is in f.g.  They are staring at him.  Nobody laughs.

They turn from him.  JIM withers and looks front.  JUDY

smiles a little and looks away so the others cannot notice

her amusement.

PLATO leans in and touches JIM's shoulder, lightly at first,

then harder.  JIM turns to him.

He turns back, unhappy at having revealed himself.

Another shot.  JUDY, BUZZ, CRUNCH.  JIM seen in b.g.  The

kids are whispering among themselves and pointing at JIM,

who looks up and notices.  He is getting uncomfortable.

Full shot.  The dome.  The star rushes nearer, looming

larger and larger.  The music rises in tension and volume.

Two shot.  JIM and PLATO staring upward, cringing back into

their seats as the light on their faces increases.  Music is

up loud.

Full shot.  The dome seen past PLATO's head.  The heavens

grow brighter as the star plummets near.  Music at crescendo.

The sky is blasted by a wild flash of light.  Music reaches

explosion.  The stars appear again.

Moving shot.  Faces of normal kids watching seriously--very

impressed.

Med. shot.  JIM and PLATO looking up.

PLATO ducks his head down on the back of JIM's chair.  JIM

looks at him.

The lights go on.  The rustle and confusion of kids

stretching after sitting too long.  Scattered applause.  JIM

rises and ruffles PLATO's hair.

PLATO looks up at him.

Med. shot.  LECTURER as he reaches over and turns a dial.

"Morning Song" by Grieg comes on softly.

Low angle.  OLD LADY TEACHER rising.  She stares around at

the bustling students and claps her hands sharply, but the

noise is barely heard above the tumult.

She picks up her coat and bag.

Planetarium parking lot.  School busses and autos, some new

and some heaps, are parked in f.g.  Beyond is the dome of

the Planetarium.  Kids mill about, some already driving off

in their cars.  One bus, already full, pulls past camera.

Med. shot.  Front of bus seen from within.  Driver in f.g.

Kids swarm up the steps and enter.  PLATO is among them, but

keeps looking back for JIM.  PLATO boards the bus and pauses

near the driver to peer through windshield.  His face clouds.

Long shot.  JUDY and group.  Seen from PLATO's angle through

windshield.  They are standing idly in a loose line near

BUZZ's car.  They are looking back toward Planetarium.

Med. shot.  Front of bus, seen from within.  PLATO turns

suddenly and pushes his way past the kids who are boarding.

Full shot.  Parking lot.  Bus in f.g.  Beyond it JUDY and

the group are visible.  PLATO squeezes out.

PLATO moves quickly past the teacher who climbs in.  The

door slams, the bus moves away.  PLATO stops and looks after

it.  The last cars are clearing the lot.  Only JIM's and

BUZZ's remain.  PLATO looks at the small, waiting group.

Med. shot.  The group seen from the rear.  PLATO in the

distance facing them.

Med. shot.  PLATO wild-eyed with fear.

He runs off, camera panning with him.  His goal is the

Planetarium Entrance, visible beyond.  He races toward it

frantically.

Med. shot.  The group looking off after PLATO.  BUZZ,

nearest camera, pulls a switch-knife from his pocket and

pops the long blade open.  JUDY stares at it, then looks up

at BUZZ apprehensively.  CRUNCH sits down on the bumper and

lights a cigarette.

Display lobby.  Planetarium as PLATO rushes in, out of

breath, stops and looks around.  In distance he sees JIM

leaning over the pendulum pit, smoking quietly.  PLATO

doesn't move.  JIM hasn't even looked up.

JIM nods.  PLATO goes over to him, camera following, until

they are close together, both leaning over the rail.

PLATO walks cautiously to the door and starts outside,

camera following.

Long shot.  Kids (corner of Observatory) with PLATO leaning

out of door, seeing them, pulling back quickly.

Inside display lobby as PLATO pulls back through the door.

JIM seems to have disappeared.  PLATO stares around frightened.

JIM is looking at another exhibit whose mechanical voice is

heard.

JIM nods.  They watch the exhibit a while longer.

PLATO looks up questioning.  JIM smiles and shrugs.

They start moving, camera leading.

JIM looks up at him.

They turn a corner quickly.

Doors to balcony (from inside) as JIM and PLATO come to them

from behind camera, fling the doors open and step outside.

Balcony as JIM and PLATO come onto it, lean on the parapet.

PLATO points off.

High long shot.  Mansion. (Matte).  It is falling into

elegant ruin, casting long afternoon shadows on the great

lawns and promenades.

Closeup PLATO looking urgently at JIM.

Two shot.  JIM and PLATO.  PLATO's back is to us.  JIM looks

past him and sees something.

PLATO turns to look too.

Long high shot.  Parking lot.  JIM's car is where he left it.

Into the driveway, like logs driven before a sea, the

shadows of the waiting kids appear and advance until the

kids themselves come into view.  They pause there a moment,

then look up.

Laughter.  The kids scatter along the wall at the foot of

the balcony stairs.  BUZZ goes to JIM's car, knife in hand,

and stands silently.

Low angle.  Two shot.  JIM and PLATO staring down from

balcony parapet.  At last JIM moves out past camera.

Low angle.  Long shot.  JIM and PLATO.  JUDY in f.g.  The

two boys walk down the stairs.  Camera pans with them as

they reach parking lot level and start walking past other

members of the group.

Traveling shot.  JIM and PLATO coming forward.

Dolly shot.  BUZZ from JIM's angle.  As camera moves in

toward BUZZ standing alone at the car, he suddenly bends

down and slashes JIM's tire.  Camera stops.  There is the

hiss of air escaping.  BUZZ straightens and smiles past camera.

Close shot.  JIM inhaling sharply in shock and suppressed

anger.

Full shot over JIM's car.  Group in b.g. motionless.  JIM

and PLATO approach the car.  JIM stops and looks down.  BUZZ

stands smiling and puts away the knife.

Close shot.  Rear wheel.  The tire slashed, the wheel rests

on the ground.

Full shot.  Car.  Shooting between group and BUZZ toward

backs of JIM and PLATO, who are looking down at car which

rests on its rims.  JIM turns and moves toward group.  He

stops, looks from one to the other and smiles nervously.

Then he looks straight at BUZZ.

Med. shot.  The group and JIM.  JUDY has come to BUZZ,

stands on the wall above him.

Suddenly GOON starts clucking softly like a chicken.  One by

one the others pick it up.  BUZZ, the last, crows.  Silence.

Med. shot.  The group and JIM.

The group gives a quick, short laugh.

Med. shot.  JIM as he takes off his glasses, smiles.  Shakes

his head disapprovingly.

Close shot.  PLATO watching anxiously.

Med. shot.  BUZZ with JUDY watching above him.  JIM enters

shot until he is close to BUZZ's face.  He looks up at JUDY.

Camera closes in until we are tight on the three.  The heads

are nearly touching.

BUZZ clutches JIM's hair and jerks his head up.  He cracks

JIM smartly across the face with the palm of his hand.

Close shot.  JUDY looking at JIM.  Her eyes clear in

recognition.

Another angle.  The group and JIM as JIM tears free and

comes at BUZZ, slugging.  But BUZZ, with a laugh, leaps onto

the parapet and turns, the knife in his hand again.  JIM

stops short.  The group and PLATO move in around him.

Close-up.  CRUNCH.  He is smiling.  His arms are around the

shoulders of the kids who flank him.

Med. shot.  Group.

Close shot.  PLATO seen between heads of MIL and COOKIE.

COOKIE holds up a switch knife and tosses it over into the

circle.

Full shot.  Circle as the knife falls at JIM's feet.  JIM

stoops and picks up his weapon, then faces BUZZ.  Then he

springs his blade.

BUZZ hops from the parapet.  They begin stalking each other.

BUZZ slides his knife from hand to hand trying to hypnotize

JIM.  Suddenly he pokes out and pricks JIM's shirt.  The

group sighs "Ole!" JIM makes no effort at self-defense.

Silence.  BUZZ pricks JIM again, "Ole!"

JIM cuts out half-heartedly.

BUZZ viciously slaps JIM across the face.  JIM lashes out

and misses.  BUZZ hops back.

Outside entrance of parking lot.  A uniformed GUIDE of

middle-age stares past camera.  Cries of "Ole," are heard in

the distance.

The LECTURER appears running.  He stops short at what he

sees, and blinks in the sunlight.

Inside circle.  JIM is covered with sweat and about to drop.

He is getting the worst of it, still refusing to defend

himself.

Close shot.  PLATO.  He is looking on in despair.

Suddenly, with a cry, PLATO pushes through.

Inside circle as PLATO comes through.  His eyes are wild.

He holds a tire chain in his hand.

BUZZ trips PLATO quickly and kicks him while he's down.

CRUNCH grabs the chain.

Suddenly JIM transforms.  He bores forward expertly--pricks

BUZZ again and again.  Cries of Ole greet him.  BUZZ is

surprised.

Full shot.  Group.  We hear only the breathing of the

combatants.  Beyond we see the GUIDE approaching swiftly.

The LECTURER trails at a safe distance.

Closeup.  CRUNCH.  He looks up.  His smile fades.

Group as they look off and see the GUIDE and LECTURER

approach.  BUZZ and JIM are both breathing hard.  PLATO is

getting to his feet.

He folds up his knife and puts it away.  So does JIM.

The GUIDE bursts in among them.  The LECTURER remains on the

fringe.

There is wild laughter from the kids as they close around

the GUIDE and start edging him away, up the steps toward the

Planetarium balcony.

They are gone.  The LECTURER looks after them then comes to

JIM.  JIM looks down at his shirt.  There are spots of blood.

PLATO opens it, spits on a handkerchief and starts to wipe

the blood away.

LECTURER hesitates.

LECTURER goes.  JIM impatiently closes his shirt.

Downstairs hall.  JIM's house.  A single light is burning.

JIM steals in from the kitchen, peers cautiously into the

living room, then starts up the stairs.  A crash is heard

above.  JIM stops, undecided whether to go or stay, then

moves quickly up the stairs, no longer trying to be quiet.

Upper hall.  JIM's house as JIM rises into view at the top

of stairs.  He sees a figure on hands and knees mopping

something off the rug.  Leaklight from the staircase dims

details.  An apron is tied around the figure's waist and its

bow sticks bravely in the air.

The figure straightens and turns around, smiling.  It is the

FATHER.  He is neatly dressed in his business suit but wears

a Mary Petty apron.

JIM leans against the wall, shaking his head and trying not

to laugh.  The FATHER laughs unhappily, trying to make it

all seem a joke.

He starts dabbing among the spilled dishes with a wet cloth.

JIM watches him.

The FATHER continues dabbing.

The FATHER looks up at him.

JIM touches his FATHER's elbow, bringing him to his feet.

They look at each other a moment then JIM goes to his

bedroom.  The FATHER goes back to mopping up the mess.

Inside JIM's room as he comes in, shuts the door and throws

himself miserably on his bed.  He writhes as if the pain he

feels were physical.  Outside, radios are heard in the

night--tuned to different stations.  He feels under his

jacket and holds up his hand to the moonlight.  There is

blood on it.  He reaches up and takes his alarm clock and is

setting it as camera glides to his window and holds over the

rooftops.

Full shot.  JUDY's backyard.  Moonlight.  JUDY stands near

camera looking up at the moon.  The radios seem louder out

here.  One breaks through.

She wheels around.

Long shot.  The FATHER standing erect on back porch,

silhouetted against a window.

Med. shot.  JUDY.  She hasn't moved.

Full shot.  Backyard featuring the FATHER.  We see him now

as a tall and handsome man.  There is something boyish and

appealing about him.

JUDY comes forward, stands below him on the step.  Her look

is adoring.

He looks at her.

He turns away and goes into the house.  She hesitates and

then follows.  Something in the moods has changed.  He has

neglected to hold the door for her.

Dining room.  JUDY's house as the FATHER comes to the head

of the table and takes his seat.  Three places are set.

JUDY follows.  She stands above his chair, looking down at

him as he drinks his tomato juice.

JUDY doesn't answer, but leans down and kisses him quickly

on the lips.

JUDY freezes, frightened.  He collects himself a little.

The mother enters briskly from another part of the house--an

attractive, brittle woman of thirty-five.

JUDY slides into her chair reluctantly and unfolds her napkin.

She half-rises to kiss him again.

Suddenly the FATHER slaps her.  Even as he does it he is as

stunned as JUDY.  The mother stops eating.  She has never

seen such a display and is shocked.  He tries to control

himself by buttering a piece of bread.  There is a terrible

silence into which BEAU enters in his pajamas.  He runs to

his FATHER's chair, then halts--looking from face to face.

The FATHER puts an arm around him, hugs him almost savagely.

JUDY rises, weeping.

She starts out.  The FATHER rises and follows after her.

She leaves the room, interrupting the joke he was going to

make.  He turns back to the table and sits down.  The MOTHER

rises and comes to him.

The mother stands behind his chair.  She tips his head back

against her body and kneads his neck and shoulders.

The door slams.

Inside JIM's room.  We see him lying on his bed as before.

His eyes are open.  The alarm clock goes off.  JIM starts as

if shot, then stops the wild ringing.  The time is seven-

forty-five.  He makes no move to leave the bed.  There is a

light tap on the door, then it opens and the FATHER is

there, seen in light from the hall and still wearing the apron.

The FATHER turns away.

The FATHER turns on the light and looks at JIM who is now

sitting on the edge of the bed.  He removes his jacket and

the bloody shirt is revealed.  The FATHER stares.

He goes out, to the study next door.  JIM rises.

During this, JIM has kicked off his shoes and put on his

boots and jacket and goes out.

Living room featuring stairs.  JIM comes running down the

stairs and out the kitchen door.

The FATHER comes down the stairs, goes to the front door and

calls:

He goes to kitchen door, calls again, gets no answer, comes

back into the living room, sees he is still wearing the

apron.  He rips it off and throws it down--then starts for

the stairs.

The Plateau.  Moonlight.  Wind shrieks over the exposed

plateau, which is several hundred yards long.  It cuts into

the darkness like the prow of a ship and ends in empty air.

A dozen cars are scattered about, defining a sort of runway

in the center.  There are twenty kids present, but very

little talk.  Most of them belong to BUZZ's group but there

are a few whom we have not met before.  They stand in small

clots, murmuring and smoking.  The atmosphere is strung

tightly, like the moments before a dawn attack.  In b.g.

near the cliff's edge, are two cars of similar make and

model.  They face away from camera toward the edge of the

plateau.  There are no headlights anywhere...blackout

conditions.

MOOSE, a boy in a leather jacket and cheap yachting cap

stands guard between the cars, his back to us.  His hands

are on his hips.  His legs are spread.  Some girls drift in.

Another angle.  Plateau featuring PLATO as he wanders

through the crowd searching for JIM.  He passes BUZZ's car

where BUZZ, JUDY and the rest are eating hamburgers.  They

have all changed into fighting wardrobe.

PLATO stops.

BUZZ snaps on the spotlight again and swings it off.

Full shot.  JIM's car as JIM gets out and PLATO runs to him.

BUZZ enters.

JIM gets out; PLATO starts to follow.

The two boys move away.  PLATO looks after them, hurt, then

goes to side of JUDY and stands.

Dolly shot.  JIM and BUZZ as they come forward.

They shake hands briefly as they walk.  They come to MOOSE

and stop.

MOOSE produces one and hands it to BUZZ who goes to one of

the guarded cars, motioning JIM to come, too.

Closer shot.  BUZZ, JIM and MOOSE seen as hood is raised,

revealing their faces beneath it.  BUZZ explores the motor

with the flashlight.

He closes the hood.  Group moves across to other car.

JUDY and PLATO.  The other kids are behind them.  JUDY looks

to see that their attention isn't on her, then speaks

quietly to PLATO.

Full shot.  Guarded cars.  JIM is close in f.g. at wheel of

his car.  BUZZ is beyond, at wheel of his.  Both boys are

gunning their engines, listening critically.  JIM lets his

idle.

JUDY, GOON and group.  They watch in silent anticipation.

PLATO starts away from them.

Traveling shot.  PLATO hurrying away from the group.  He

stops, looking off.

JIM and BUZZ.  PLATO in distance.

JIM opens his door.

JIM shuts his door and tries again.  So does BUZZ.  Then

both boys walk forward to the edge.  Neither says a word.

BUZZ puts his hand on JIM's shoulder.

High angle.  The edge of the bluff (process).  JIM and BUZZ

are directly below us.  Under them the plateau falls steeply

away in a sheer drop of a hundred feet to the ocean below.

Two shot.  JIM and BUZZ.  JIM is staring below.  He is

beginning to perspire.  He lights a cigarette.  Without

taking his hand from JIM's shoulder, BUZZ borrows the

cigarette from his lips, takes a drag and hands it back.

JIM takes another puff then tosses it into the abyss.

Long shot.  JIM and BUZZ with PLATO in f.g.  JIM and BUZZ

appear to him as two close friends.  Suddenly they break and

go, without speaking further, to their cars.  They back up

to the opposite end of the plateau, headlights dark.  PLATO

follows them with his gaze.

Group shot.  GOON and others looking up as the cars glide by.

Med. shot.  JUDY waiting as BUZZ and JIM move into starting

position next to her.  JUDY goes to BUZZ.  JIM is in b.g.--

looking on.

She bends out of sight for a moment as BUZZ goes on talking,

then hands him the dirt.  He rubs it into his palms.

JUDY and BUZZ kiss, without much interest.

She starts out, without kissing him again.

Med. shot.  JIM's car as JUDY comes to him.

She looks at him a moment then bends and hands him some dirt.

Their heads touch for an instant.

She breaks the look and hurries away.

Long shot.  The cars.  They are lined up in two rows--

headlights facing each other.  JUDY comes into shot.  When

she gets near camera, she stops and turns back to face them.

Suddenly the headlights of all the cars come on full.

Reverse shot.  JUDY.  She is in the center of the glare.

Behind her we see the other kids filing out of their cars,

hurrying toward the edge of the bluff.  The sound of the two

motors revving then dying and revving again.

Inside JIM's car.  JIM grips the wheel firmly, relaxes his

hands to rub his palms together and crack his knuckles.  He

grips the wheel again.  Steps on the accelerator, winding

his engine into a roar.  He lets up, looks tensely at--

BUZZ in his car.  His chin juts forward.  He lets go of the

wheel, starts to comb his hair.

Slow pan shot.  Spectators staring off at the cars.  A boy

has his arm around the girl in front of him, his cheek

against hers.  Both are looking off.  Some of the kids smoke.

All are involved in the blasting of engines.

PLATO among the spectators near edge of the bluff.  He is

chewing his lip.  Camera pans down to show that the fingers

of both his hands are tightly crossed.

Close shot.  JUDY staring tensely into the glare.  Suddenly

she raises her hands high above her head.

Close shot.  JIM sweating it out.  He leans forward,

squinting, ready.

Close shot.  BUZZ.  He puts his comb between his teeth and

clamps it hard.  He settles himself for the run.

Long shot.  Plateau.  The cars are in close, seen from the

rear.  JUDY is a small distant figure, arms stretched high.

The exhaust blasts.  Now she drops her arms.  The cars leap

ahead.

Med. shot.  JUDY.  She whirls to see the cars snap by, then

begins running up the center of the plateau between the

lines of spectators.

Full shot.  Spectators.  Shooting over their shoulders as

the cars approach and scream past.

Pit shot.  Cars.  As they approach, gaining speed, and

thunder over the camera.

Inside JIM's car. (Process).  He is tense.

Inside BUZZ's car. (Process).  His hands hard on the wheel.

The comb is still between his teeth.  He begins edging

toward the door on his left.

Moving close shot.  JUDY biting hard on her finger, as she

runs forward.

Close shot.  PLATO.  Both hands cover his mouth.  The

fingers are still crossed.

Inside JIM's car. (Process).  As he edges to his left.  He

is driving with one hand.  He opens the door, gets set for

his jump.

Inside BUZZ's car. (Process).  He reaches for the door

handle and misses.  As he raises his arm to reach again, the

strap of his windbreaker sleeve slips over the handle.  He

looks down in panic, then back at the drop ahead.  He tugs

but cannot get the sleeve loose.

Closeup.  PLATO staring.  He shuts his eyes tight and keeps

them shut.

Shooting at backs of the two cars as they race through the

row of lights toward the edge.

Inside JIM's car. (Process).  His face is soaked.  He looks

once toward BUZZ--then ahead.  His eyes widen in fear.  He

shoves left and flings himself forward, and out.

Outside JIM's car as he sprawls forward--into camera.

Inside BUZZ's car. (Process).  BUZZ leans way forward now.

He seems to rise in his seat.  His mouth opens and the comb

falls out.

Full shot spectators staring in disbelief.  Suddenly a youth

ducks his face into the neck of his girlfriend so he cannot

see.  At the same instant--

Rear view.  Edge of the bluff as the two cars go over.

There is NO human sound.

Close shot.  JIM as he stops rolling.

BUZZ's car in flight. (Special effects).  The car soars

through the night, the vehicle of a terrible journey.

Med. shot.  BUZZ. (Process).  Surprise has gone.  He rides

lightly on the thrill of his last moment--then suddenly, his

face twists in a spasm of protest and loss.

The kids staring at his flight.

JIM unaware of the disaster--glad he made it.

Low angle.  Edge of the bluff.  With headlights blazing,

both cars dive down.

Med. shot.  JUDY standing frozen as the spectators shove

past and around her.

Wide angle.  Edge of the bluff as spectators swarm to it,

stand looking down.

JIM on hands and knees, trying to rise.  Legs rush by him,

knock him onto his face.

Long shot. (Special effects).  Both cars plunge into the

ocean below.

JIM at edge of bluff.  He is pushing through spectators.

PLATO working his way through the crowd.

CRUNCH.  CRUNCH looks up as he hears JIM's repeated cry.

JIM enters behind him, continuing blindly on his way.

JIM looks over the edge.

Rear view.  Spectators.  A siren wail approaches.  The kids

wheel and scatter, panicking past the camera.

Close shot.  MOOSE.  Looks at JIM.  Runs.

Close shot.  GOON.  Turns.  Runs.

Med. shot.  JIM seen between legs of hurrying kids.  The

sirens and the pounding of their feet on the hard turf.  JIM

is sitting on the edge of the bluff.  PLATO rushes in, stops

short as he sees him.

JIM doesn't move.  PLATO grabs his arm and yanks.

JIM stands.  PLATO pushes him.

They start away, PLATO still pushing from behind.

Med. shot.  JUDY.  She is standing alone in the wind on the

emptying plateau.  JIM and PLATO move past in the distance.

JIM sees her and stops.

Close shot.  JUDY.  She is shuddering violently but there

are no tears.  She seems not to see or hear or be aware of

anything around her.

Full shot.  JIM and PLATO watching JUDY.  JIM moves toward

her, camera panning with him and leaving PLATO behind.  JIM

stands before JUDY until she notices him.  He shakes his

head for all the sorrow he feels, but no words come.

Tentatively he offers her his hand.  After a moment, she

takes it.  She knows only that help is being offered and

that she will accept it with trust.  JIM leads her away

toward the car.

High long shot.  JIM's street.  Night.  There is no movement

anywhere.  In the house bordering the street a few lights

still burn.  JIM's car approaches out of distance and slows

when it reaches the alley.

Med. shot.  JIM's car as it slows and stops.  JIM, JUDY and

PLATO in the front seat.  JUDY has the door open before the

car even stops.  She is shaking, agitated and withdrawn.

She gets out and starts away, leaving door open.

PLATO looks at him.  JUDY hesitates.  JIM raises a hand to

her in a shy farewell.  She smiles vaguely, then hurries

away from them.

Near JIM's backyard (alley).  JIM and PLATO.

PLATO turns, walks up the alley to the street.  JIM goes

into his kitchen door.

Hallway.  JUDY's house.  Three doors open onto it: one is

closed--this is JUDY's room:--another, leading into BEAU's

room is open, but the room beyond is dark: the third, also

open, reveals the bedroom of JUDY's parents.  As JUDY comes

into the hallway, the parents, who are reading in their

beds, look up.  JUDY hesitates, then starts toward her own

room.

JUDY stops.  BEAU appears at his door in white pajamas, a

small ghost.  JUDY looks at him.

JUDY touches BEAU's head and tries to smile.

BEAU flees.  JUDY turns without another glance at her

parents, and opens the door of her room.

Inside bedroom of JUDY's parents.  As JUDY slams her bedroom

door o.s., the FATHER reacts.  Perhaps, he wishes she had

given him a chance to say goodnight.  The MOTHER, who use

reading glasses, looks up at the slam.  Then she looks over

at her husband, shrugs when she catches his gaze, and goes

back to her magazine.

Inside JIM's living room.  The television is on, but only a

hum comes from it, and the screen is a flickering gray.  The

FATHER sits lumpily in a chair by the fireplace, still

dressed but with his collar open.  The sound of JIM's step

in the dining room makes him open his eyes.  Fear of facing

his son makes him shut them again.  The boy comes in, a

bottle of milk in his hand.  Seeing his FATHER there, he

stops short--his impulse is to flee.  Instead he comes in

and looks down at the sleeping man whose eyelids, fluttering

in the FATHER's masquerade of sleep, make him seem to be

having a dream.  JIM is torn between his desire to leave and

his need to speak.  He turns off the television quietly,

then lies down on the couch across the way.  He mumbles the

things he would say to his FATHER and the answers he feels

he would get.  The old man opens his eyes once, sees the boy

there, head banging upside down from the couch.  Then he

shuts them again.

Upside down long shot.  Room (JIM's viewpoint).  Suddenly,

inverted in his vision, the MOTHER appears at the head of

the stairs, in bathrobe and nightgown.  She pauses a moment,

then runs down crying:

The camera rights itself suddenly.

JIM as he completes his turn, pulling his head up and sitting.

FATHER as he pretends to awaken with a start.

Full shot, room as the MOTHER hurries to JIM, holds him,

inspects him, kisses him.

The FATHER is mute, helpless...  Suddenly JIM screams.

He leaps at his FATHER, dragging him to his feet, hands at

the man's throat.

Suddenly JIM loosens his hands and rises.  He looks swiftly

at each of them--moves a few steps toward the door, looks

back at them again--then rushes out of the house.  The

parents stand frozen.

Outside Precinct Station.  JIM's car comes to a stop at the

curb.  JIM gets out and approaches the flight of steps

leading up the entrance.  A bare bulb on either side is the

only illumination.  As he mounts the first step, the double

doors above him swing open revealing several people.  JIM

stops short.  So do they.

Low angle.  CRUNCH, MOOSE and their parents.  JIM's back in

f.g.  The boys stare down at him.

High angle.  JIM (from the boys' point of view) as he stares

up at them.  MOOSE's father takes his arm and starts him

down the stairs, the others moving too.

JIM starts forward up the steps.  CRUNCH grabs him.

They move down the steps as JIM breaks away and continues up.

He goes through the doors.

Inside doors as JIM comes through and stops.  He looks back

through the glass.  We see the group reach the curb where

their cars are parked.  There is a brief discussion which we

cannot hear, then CRUNCH and MOOSE move off to MOOSE's car.

JIM turns back.  He looks worried as he passes camera.

Med. shot.  CRUNCH and MOOSE.  They stop at MOOSE's car and

look back at the entrance.  The parents are seen beyond

them, getting into their cars.  CRUNCH is near tears with

anger.

CRUNCH gets into the car.  MOOSE follows.  They gun the

motor and throw the car into a sharp U-turn.  MOOSE'S FATHER

jumps into his car.  He steps on the starter but nothing

happens--just the empty whirring, over and over.  Finally it

starts, but the boys have gone.

Inside Precinct Station.  Juvenile division.  A desk

sergeant is writing in the record book.  Facing him across

the desk and handcuffed to an officer is a young hoodlum,

very different in appearance from the kids we have met--a

typical duck-tail 'cat'.

JIM turns away, notices a phone on the wall--puts in a coin,

asks for a number.

Bedroom of JUDY's parents.  Through an open door we hear a

radio playing-- a late disc-jockey show for teenagers in

which numbers are dedicated by request.  JUDY'S MOTHER and

FATHER are in bed, FATHER has phone in his hand.

He hangs up phone, looks at his wife.  She rolls over in bed.

The FATHER turns off the bed lamp, then sits up, worried in

the dark.

JUDY's bedroom.  It is her radio we have heard.  She turns

off light, opens the door a crack, and looks out toward her

parent's room.

Traveling shot.  PLATO.  He is coming up the walk to his

house.  When PLATO has come a few feet, somebody whistles.

PLATO and camera stop.  Short, quiet whistles come from the

boxwood and shrubbery on both sides of the walk.  PLATO

turns and starts to run, camera following.  He gets to his

door, tries the key, but in his panic it will not go into

the lock.  Suddenly a hand reaches in and jerks him around.

CRUNCH stands above him.  GOON closes in from the other side.

All very tense and hotted up!

PLATO reaches up swiftly and rings the bell.  GOON grabs him.

CRUNCH cracks him.

The door opens and the NEGRO WOMAN is there.  CRUNCH sends

PLATO spinning into the house past her.  He falls.

She swings at CRUNCH who faces her, challenging.

They turn and move past camera.  PLATO gets up off the floor.

We hear the sound of a heap starting.  The NEGRO WOMAN

closes the door.

Inside PLATO's foyer as NEGRO WOMAN bolts the door.

He starts up the stairs.  She follows him heavily.

Bedroom of PLATO's mother, a lacy affair with imported dolls

on the pillows.  PLATO rushes in, opens the drawer of the

night-table and pulls out a gun.  He checks to see that it

is loaded.  The NEGRO WOMAN appears in the door and stares

at him, turns on the light which illuminates the bed-lamp.

But PLATO moves past her and out of the room.  She turns

after him.

The slam of a door is heard below.

JIM's garage.  Night.  JUDY waiting inside.  JIM's car pulls

in, a radio going softly.  He turns the motor off and is

about to turn off the radio when we hear the announcer:

JIM stares at the radio, then turns it off.

Another angle.

JUDY comes forward.

She shakes her head.  He takes a sip.

She is shuddering a little.

They laugh a little.

JUDY shakes her head--beginning to warm to him.

She looks up.  He kisses her forehead.

JUDY rises.

JUDY hesitates.

They start out.

Inside bathroom.  JIM's house.  The water is running in the

sink and JIM's father is fixing a stomach settler.  Gradually

he grows aware of a heavy pounding which insinuates itself

above the splash of water.  The FATHER pauses, then turns

off the tap.  The pounding continues.  JIM'S MOTHER appears

at the bathroom door.  She is seen in the mirror tying her

robe.

The pounding ceases.

He goes out of the bathroom, into the hall.

Foyer.  JIM's house as the FATHER comes down the stairs,

turning on the light as he comes.  He reaches the door and

pauses.  The MOTHER stops midway down the stairs.

The FATHER opens the door and looks up sharply.

Close shot.  Door.  FATHER's head in f.g. as he stares at it.

Nailed to the door by its outstretched wings, its head

hanging in an attitude of crucifixion, is the freshly killed

carcass of a chicken.  Low whistles are heard from outside.

The FATHER, frightened, looks out into the night.

Full shot.  Front lawn and street.  Shooting over the

FATHER's head.  The whistling continues.

Suddenly the FATHER slams the door and rushes past us into

the house.

Full shot.  Foyer as the FATHER rushes to the bottom of the

stairs.

The MOTHER disappears.

The FATHER dashes into the living room, then into the hall

again and down through the kitchen door.

Back yard as the FATHER comes out.  He closes the door

quietly and calls in a low voice:

He stares around the yard, then hurries to the garage.

JIM's car is missing.  He looks up suddenly.

Reverse shot.  JUDY'S FATHER seen across the alley wall.  He

is standing in his own back yard.

Med. shot.  JIM'S FATHER.  He smiles feebly.

JIM'S FATHER closes his garage door and walks back toward

his house.

He starts for the house again after a quick look in the

direction of JUDY'S FATHER.

Full shot.  JUDY's back yard.  JUDY'S FATHER watches MR.

STARK disappear, then...

The alley by JIM's house.  PLATO drives up on scooter.  He

checks the garage, sees JIM's car is gone, is about to take

off in confusion, hears door slam in JIM's back yard, shuts

off engine, fixes tie, combs hair, goes in the fence gate to

JIM's back yard.

Full shot.  JIM's back yard.  JIM'S FATHER is coming toward

him.  JIM'S FATHER and PLATO simultaneously say:

Closeup.  PLATO remembers about the mansion--then almost to

himself:

Back to full shot.  FATHER and PLATO.

He runs to scooter.

Split screen montage.  It begins with a telephone ringing

alone in the corner of the screen.  As camera moves back we

see that the phone is in an office at Juvenile Hall.  RAY is

standing by, trying to make sense out of the incoming reports.

The other part of the screen lights up and becomes:

Bedroom of PLATO'S MOTHER where the NEGRO WOMAN is speaking

hysterically into the phone.

Bedroom of JUDY's parents.  The FATHER is on the phone.

BEAU has awakened and is crying.  His MOTHER tries to divert

him.

JIM's bedroom.  JIM'S FATHER sits disconsolately on the bed,

the phone in his hand.  He is talking earnestly.

During this the sound of the telephone ringing has increased

to become the sound of many and this has been submerged in a

deep rising riot of sirens whose wail mounts higher and

higher until:

Full shot.  Planetarium.  Moonlight.  A lone siren wails in

distance.  Aside from this, all is very still.  Camera pans

past the dome and settles on an isolated mansion set high on

a hill nearby.  Stone balustrades drop down to sunken

gardens where the grass has gone to seed around a waterless

fountain.

Closer shot.  Mansion.  Night.  A Mediterranean villa with a

large domed solarium which is connected to the main building

by a low enclosed arcade.  A crash and the falling of

splintered glass is heard.

Long shot.  Promenade.  Shooting through pillars of the main

entrance portico, down the long promenade outside arcade.

Two figures, seen in the distance, are disappearing through

a window.  Camera tracks down promenade until it reaches a

broken window through which JIM is just disappearing.  When

he gets inside, he reaches back and takes his leather jacket

which has been spread on the sill to protect them from

splinters, shakes it out and puts it on.  Running footsteps

are heard approaching.  JIM looks out nervously.  PLATO

bursts in, out of breath.

JIM gives PLATO a hand over the windowsill.

Inside arcade.  JIM and JUDY are seen in an entering shaft

of moonlight.  PLATO hits the floor and disappears into

darkness.

A match flares and lights a candle on an antique Spanish

candelabra.  PLATO is revealed bending over it.  He lights

the other candles through the following:

His wonderment is justified.  The floor of the arcade is

marble and there are marble benches and neo-Roman busts

lining the walls.

PLATO leads them away from us down the arcade, the candelabra

casting wild shadows on the walls.  They are laughing as

they disappear through the glass doors at the end and their

laughter echoes stonily.

Med. shot.  A street and an alley.  Night seen through the

windshield of a police car.  Its radio is on low.  Two

officers are in the front seat.  One of them drinks coffee

from a container.  Suddenly MOOSE's heap moves past on the

street ahead.  In it are MOOSE, GOON and CRUNCH.

Full shot.  The street as MOOSE's heap continues up the

empty street.  The police car slides out of the alley where

it has been concealed, and follows at a distance.  Its

headlights are off.

Close shot.  CRUNCH, GOON and MOOSE (Process).  They are in

the front seat of MOOSE's heap.

Inside glass solarium.  A swimming pool lies at the center.

There is no water in it.  Framing the pool is a flagstone

walk with marble benches spotted here and there.  The great

glass room had once been planted thickly with tropical

foliage.

But now what palms and lianas remain are withered and dead

with lack of care.  At the edge of the pool, near the deep

end, a blanket has been spread and a candelabra burns upon

it.  In its mysterious light our three kids are revealed:

JIM, bouncing precariously at the end of the diving board;

JUDY on the blanket nearby; PLATO on the pool's bottom.  All

three are laughing hysterically when suddenly JIM starts to

lose his balance.

JIM falls in.  PLATO rushes to him.

They laugh again.  JIM swings up the ladder and goes to JUDY.

PLATO follows.

They all sit on the blanket.

JIM lies back with his head in JUDY's lap.  She strokes his

hair and smiles at him.  PLATO looks away.

PLATO hesitates a moment, then leans back, cuddling between

the two of them.

JIM puts his arm under PLATO's chin.

PLATO closes his eyes.  JUDY hums a lullaby as she strokes

JIM's lips with a finger.  He snaps at it.  Then he kisses

her hand, looks at her palm.  They whisper.

She takes his palm and examines it.

She kisses it, holds her cheek against it.

She looks at PLATO.  JIM shrugs--tests to see if the boy is

awake, but there is no reaction.

Carefully, they crawl to their feet.  JIM supporting PLATO's

head with his hands as they do so.  JIM takes the other

blanket and covers PLATO with it.  JUDY kneels on the other

side and tucks it in.  They look at each other across him

and smile.  Then suddenly JUDY bends down and kisses PLATO's

cheek very softly.  JUDY and JIM rise.

JIM takes a candle from the candelabra and leads JUDY along

the edge of the pool to the glass doors beyond.  Silence

except for their footfalls on the flagstone.  In the

distance we see the doors open and the couple pass through.

When they close again, a sob comes from PLATO.

High angle closeup.  PLATO lying as they left him, but his

eyes are open and he is crying.  Camera booms up as PLATO

throws off the blanket and looks after them.  Camera booms

higher until he is revealed as a small and lonely figure

sitting by himself.  The pool echoes his weeping.

Inside library.  Mansion.  Night.  The door opens slowly and

JIM appears with the candle.  JUDY lingers at the door.  The

flickering light reveals a formerly lavish room, paneled in

oak.  There is a tapestry couch, empty bookcases, some dim

portraits, a leather table and several chairs around a great

stone fireplace.

She comes forward.  JIM drips wax on the table-top and

sticks the candle on it.  His hand shakes.  JUDY sits on the

couch.

He takes her hand.  She looks at him and smiles.

JIM snuffs out the candle.  They are left in moonlight.  A

pause.

He leans back, relaxed at last.  She snuggles close to him.

She kisses his lips gently and looks into his face.  He

returns the kiss.  Their arms go around each other.

He kisses her again--

Full shot.  Road near Planetarium.  MOOSE's heap crawls up

and turns left.  A moment later, the police car appears and

does likewise--still holding its distance.

Full shot.  The mansion as MOOSE's heap moves past on the

road below.  Suddenly it stops.

Inside MOOSE's heap.  CRUNCH looks off, curious.

He switches on the spotlight.  It illuminates JIM's heap.

He turns off all the lights and gets out.  The others follow.

Med. shot.  Police car.  It has halted.  One of the officers

gets out and draws his gun.  The other makes radio contact

in a low voice:

Close shot.  PLATO asleep on the blanket.  Only a single

candle burns in the candelabra.  The same low whistles heard

earlier come from all around him and rise in volume.

Suddenly his eyes open.  He doesn't move, but he has come

suddenly awake.

Low shot.  PLATO lying in f.g.  Next to his face are a pair

of booted feet.  He looks up.  Camera pans up to show CRUNCH.

He is smiling.  He holds a tire chain in his hand which he

swings.

Full shot.  The swimming pool.  GOON and MOOSE are behind

CRUNCH.  They too are armed with tire chains.  They all

laugh.  PLATO rolls away from them and runs toward the deep

end of the pool.

The boys run to their assigned places.  PLATO sees no exit.

He flings himself down the ladder and into the pool.  He

feints this way and that, the boys responding as if they

were fencing.  CRUNCH swings down the ladder and his boots

make a loud report as they hit the pool.  MOOSE advances

down the steps at the shallow end.  GOON climbs onto the

pool bottom at the opposite side.  The feinting continues,

wordlessly, as the circle closes around PLATO.  The only

sounds are the stamping of their boots as they try to

distract him from side to side, and the animalistic grunts

they make to scare him.  Suddenly PLATO sees an opening and

plunges past MOOSE, pushing him over, and stumbles up the

steps.

They stream out of the pool after PLATO.  He reaches the

glass doors first, streaks though, and bangs them shut

behind him.

Traveling shot.  Arcade.  PLATO's face is visible only when

the moonlight strikes him through the passing windows.  The

sound of running steps behind him.

Full shot.  Main room.  A pattern of moonlight on the bare

floor as PLATO dashes in and through it.  He falls over a

piece of furniture and comes scurrying in to camera, wheels

around on hands and knees to face the door.  The boys plunge

into the moonlit square and stop.  PLATO tries not to

breathe.  A match is struck.  CRUNCH looks around, but can

see nothing.  That match goes out.  The boys start up the

stairs, whispering.  Immediately, PLATO crawls forward,

under the piano.  He hears a murmur of voices from behind

the oak door of the library--next to the piano.  He moves to

it stealthily.

Close shot, PLATO at door listening through it, on hands and

knees.  His confusion mounts.  He shakes his head to clear

it.  Then, suddenly he rises and tries the knob.  The door

is locked.  He beats on it.

The boys run across the room.  As they hit the moonlit

square.  PLATO spins and fires.  Somebody drops and starts

moaning.  JIM opens the door.

There is a rush of boys coming forward.

PLATO fires at JIM.  JIM leaps at PLATO with a cry and

knocks him down.

He rolls away from JIM and runs to the main door.

Main door, from inside.  PLATO falls upon it, fumbles with

the bolt and swings the door wide.  He steps out into the

waning moonlight and we see him running down the lawn.  JIM

rushes into the doorway and stops short.

Full shot.  Mansion.  The OFFICERS are moving away from us

toward it.  PLATO runs wildly toward them.

PLATO stops, confused.

JIM runs out on the promenade and starts over the balustrade.

Close shot.  PLATO.  His face is working desperately in

growing panic.

PLATO runs out.

Close shot.  JIM as he screams.

Full shot.  Main doorway as JUDY rushes out, followed by

GOON and MOOSE.  They all stop dead at the balustrade.

Reverse shot.  Lawn.  JIM seen in f.g.  PLATO bolting toward

the woods in the direction of the planetarium.  The officers

have both hit the ground in the distance.  They fire again.

JIM hesitates a moment, then rushes after PLATO.  The

officers fire again.

Moving shot.  JIM as he runs after PLATO.

Med. shot.  OFFICERS as they rise to their feet.

Full shot.  Front of mansion.  JUDY flies down the stairs

and rushes past camera.

Prowl car.  Another part of town (Process).  RAY is driving.

JIM's father is beside him.  The mother is in the back seat.

Edge of woods as JIM hurtles in from the open ground beyond.

He stumbles against a tree and sinks down.

Traveling shot in the woods as PLATO rushes through the

moonlit trees, sobbing.

Med. shot.  JIM at the base of a tree.  He is whimpering,

shaking his head.  JUDY crashes through the brush and drops

beside him.

She is on the verge of hysteria.

He starts to rise.

There is a sound of distant gunfire.  Both kids freeze.

JUDY, breaking into a run, follows after him through the brush.

JIM runs ahead blindly and disappears in the trees.  JUDY

rushes after him a few steps, then stops.

JUDY and JIM running.

PLATO running.

The planetarium.  Moonlight.  Shooting from the bridle path

and panning to the building.  PLATO reels in and goes to the

front door.

Med. shot.  Door to planetarium.  PLATO clutches the handle.

The door is locked.  He whimpers once in frustration.

Med. shot.  Policeman running up same path PLATO has followed.

PLATO at door to planetarium.  He smashes the glass with his

gun and dives through.

Inside planetarium as PLATO lands.  He is cut and bleeding.

PLATO wheels and skitters backward across the floor of the

observatory on his hands and knees until he comes to the

door of the planetarium theater.

Reverse shot.  Main entrance.  Seen from inside.  The

OFFICER in b.g., PLATO in f.g.  The OFFICER appears in the

entrance, then moves quickly to one side to be less of a

target.  He reaches in to unlatch the door.

PLATO fires at him, then opens the door of the planetarium

theater and runs inside.  The door swings shut behind him.

Outside planetarium.  The OFFICER is hugging the outside

wall.  Another siren wails and a spotlight catches the

OFFICER who runs out into the light.

Full shot.  Parking lot as the CHIEF's car wheels to a stop.

It is followed by a civilian car and a cab.

CHIEF's car.

Med. shot.  Bushes bordering planetarium as JIM climbs

through them and stops short, staring in amazement.  JUDY is

in b.g.

Full shot.  Parking lot.  JIM seen in f.g. hiding in the

screen of leaves.  Beyond we see the full activity--the

crowd, the cars, searchlights playing on the planetarium

entrance, police moving in under direction of the CHIEF.

RAY's prowl car come in.  JIM's parents climb out, curious.

RAY hurries to consult with an officer who briefs him, then

hurries to the chief's car.

Parking lot.  Several patrol cars now line the parking lot.

The NEGRO WOMAN in her nightgown and overcoat pushes forward

from a cab and accosts an OFFICER.

Med. shot.  CHIEF's car as RAY hurries in.

Close-up JIM as he reacts to RAY's name.  He rises and looks

off.

Med. shot.  JIM'S FATHER standing by RAY's car, gazing off

with interest.  His wife comes out and stands beside him,

looks at him questioningly.

The FATHER's gaze has traveled over the scene.  Suddenly he

sees his son followed by JUDY, run into the planetarium.

The FATHER moves behind the crowd, camera trucking with him,

until he reaches the bushes at the edge of the parking lot

and stops, gathering himself.  Meanwhile RAY's voice

continues over:

The FATHER starts forward along the bushes as if stalking

game.  Each step is carefully placed and quiet, but his

heart tugs him along like a kite dragging an anchor.

Inside planetarium as JIM comes dashing in, spins around,

staring.  JUDY follows.  A siren is heard outside growing

shrill.

Floodlights strike the door and illuminate the lobby dimly.

Silence.  JIM moves cautiously to the door of the planetarium

theater.  JUDY hangs back.  Another siren is heard

approaching.  More floodlights strike the door.

JIM opens the door slowly.

Inside theater.  Darkness except for the splash of light

from the door where JIM stands in silhouette.  He lets the

door close.  Blackness.

PLATO obeys.

Another siren is heard outside.  JIM has reached the

lecturer's desk and, just as the match goes out, he throws a

switch.  The stars appear on the dome and the projector

starts its slow revolution.

JIM waits.  Nothing happens.

Plato rises from behind a row, then JIM continues:

JIM approaches slowly.

A siren is heard.

JIM takes off his jacket and holds it out to PLATO.

JIM gives him the jacket--PLATO puts it on.

PLATO hands him the gun.  JIM removes the cartridges and

puts them in his pocket.

JIM opens the door for PLATO, then follows him out.  JUDY

joins them.

Observatory as JIM, JUDY and PLATO come to the entrance.

PLATO sees an OFFICER.

Outside observatory as PLATO and JIM come forward into the

early dawn.  PLATO stops and looks off, scared.

Slow pan shot.  The crowd.  It has grown enormously.

Silence.  There are armed officers everywhere--all waiting,

alert.

Med. shot.  NEGRO WOMAN.  Her eyes are moist.  Her lips move

in silent prayer.

Med. shot.  JIM's parents.  The FATHER looking on anxiously.

The MOTHER is crying against the car.

Med. shot.  JIM and PLATO.

Suddenly PLATO bolts.  JIM wheels after him.

Full shot.  Planetarium as PLATO dashes to the stairway

leading to the balcony.

JIM'S FATHER and MOTHER.  Their faces reflect panic as they

see PLATO running in JIM's coat.

Full shot.  Balcony.  Shooting down the stairs as PLATO

rushes up.  JIM closes behind him.  Camera pans with PLATO

as he climbs the ladder to the ledge of the small dome.  JIM

stops at the foot of the ladder.

He raises the gun as if to shoot JIM.  An OFFICER drops to

one knee and fires a shot at PLATO.

Full shot.  Small dome.  PLATO drops like a stone to JIM's

feet.

Close-up.  JIM.

Close shot.  NEGRO WOMAN as she screams, a handkerchief in

her mouth.

Close shot.  JUDY.  She sobs once and runs up steps.

Med. shot.  JIM staring down at PLATO.

There is nothing.  He rises and faces the crowd, shaking his

head in wonder and reproach.

Full shot, the roof.  Parents and Officers.  The NEGRO WOMAN

is hysterical.  RAY shoves past her, followed by JIM'S

FATHER and MOTHER.  They rush toward camera.

Ambulance crew.  They spring into action, arrive with

stretcher.

The balcony.  JIM is at PLATO's side.  A couple of OFFICERS

rush forward to take JIM.  The FATHER comes in and pushes

them aside.

RAY, who has witnessed this, motions to the officers.

The FATHER stares down at JIM for a moment.  Then he kneels

beside his son, puts his coat over JIM's shoulders.  He

speaks very gently.

He takes JIM by the elbow and starts to bring him to his

feet.  The boy suddenly resists, and remains kneeling.

A faint hope appears in the boy's face.  He no longer

resists as the FATHER helps him to rise.  But he still keeps

his back to him.  The ambulance attendants start putting

PLATO on a stretcher.  JIM moves, as if to stop them, but

the FATHER still holds his shoulders.

JIM feels, for the first time, the love and security he has

always wanted.  He clutches at his FATHER, crying unashamedly.

The FATHER's arms envelop him.  PLATO, through his death,

has helped these two find each other.

Close shot.  JUDY and RAY watching.

Low angle.  NEGRO WOMAN as she bends over PLATO's body.

As he is carried past her, she follows.

Balcony stairs.  From below as JIM, supported by his FATHER,

comes down.  RAY is behind them.  They pause for a silent

meeting with the MOTHER at foot of the stairs.  She kisses

JIM and starts wiping his tears away, but he is weeping

soundlessly and it does no good.

JIM looks back up at the dome.  The ambulance attendants are

bearing PLATO's litter down the last few stairs, followed by

the NEGRO WOMAN.

Group.  The ambulance attendants come down the last few

stairs followed by the NEGRO WOMAN.  JIM steps forward

suddenly and adjusts the blanket covering PLATO.  JUDY comes

to JIM's side.  The litter passes camera and we hold on two

shot of JIM and JUDY, seen against the lightening sky.

JUDY moves to JIM and touches his arm lightly.  He looks

down at her.

Med. shot.  The group.  JIM's arm is around JUDY as he leads

her, firmly, towards his MOTHER and FATHER.  His voice is

warm, brimming with the new found pride he takes in his

parents as he introduces JUDY to them.

The parents nods warmly and smile at her.  She smiles shyly

in response, happy at being accepted.  There is a warmth

emanating from the tight little group.  Changes have

happened to them.  Old things have been shed and a new start

has been made.  Camera booms--pulls back high to:

High general shot.  Planetarium, JIM and JUDY, FATHER and

MOTHER threading their way through the crowd as the camera

continues to pull back.

