EXT. NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT, 1947. FLASHBACK.

City lights. The soaring bridges and glowing windows of New

York City. The SOUNDS of a cocktail party.

INT. GREENWICH VILLAGE APARTMENT - NIGHT, 1947. FLASHBACK.

A party   of bohemian types in the village. Artist's canvases

propped   up against the walls. A narrow hallway with couples

talking   intimately. Two rooms crammed with young people

smoking   and drinking.

A man and a woman in their 20's stand alone in a corner...

FRANK WHEELER, intelligent good-looks, and APRIL JOHNSON, a

patrician beauty, a woman amongst girls. He's been making

her laugh.

She laughs.   He smiles, revelling in her attention.

INT. GREENWICH VILLAGE APARTMENT - NIGHT, 1947, LATER.

Later, Frank and April dance. They move well, in sync,

looking into each other's eyes. He slides his hand down the

silk of April's dress until it rests in the small of her

back.

Close on their hands. Their fingers slowly entwine as they

lose themselves in each other...

INT. AUDITORIUM - NIGHT, PRESENT.

Close on Frank's face, seven years later, full of doubt and

tension as he watches his wife, April, on stage and as we

hear the hollow VOICES of a very bad amateur play...

Finally, mercifully, the curtain falls.   Nothing.   Then

vigorous, relieved applause.

Frank hears a voice from behind, through the applause:

April takes the final bow. She's fighting not to cry. Frank

applauds her loudly. Looks around to see who else is joining

him. But there is no noticeable crescendo in the applause.

Then Frank hears the voice again:

He can't argue.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL AUDITORIUM - NIGHT, MOMENTS LATER.

Frank now moves against the crowd of exiting audience members

towards the stage. He keeps his head lowered, avoiding eye-

contact, until he feels a hand on his sleeve.

MR. AND MRS. GIVINGS, an older couple, are standing in his

way.

Frank steps around her.

Frank forces a smile as he goes.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT.

April sits alone at her dressing table crying.

INT. BACK STAGE - NIGHT.

The CAST mills backstage. The mood is subdued, but some have

decided to make light of the disaster.

Frank moves through the crowd.    Across the room, he sees -

MILLY CAMPBELL, 30's, determinedly bright, up on her tip-

toes. Her husband SHEP, 30's, heavy-set, is still in

costume, shell-shocked and pebbled with sweat.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT.

Frank enters. The chair in front of the mirror is empty. A

cigarette burns in the ashtray. Frank glances at a standing

screen in the corner. April's costume is draped over the

top. He goes towards it, deciding what to say.

The door to the bathroom opens. April enters in street

clothes. Frank's been talking to an empty room.

She sits in front of the mirror, too embarrassed to look at

him. FRANK can see that her face is blotchy from crying. He

puts his hand on her shoulder.

APRIL looks at him in the mirror. She holds his look just a

second. And from her expression, he knows he said exactly

the wrong thing.

He removes his hands and lights a cigarette.     APRIL begins to

take off her makeup.

He backs to the door.

INT. HIGH-SCHOOL CORRIDOR - NIGHT.

April and Frank walk down a long empty echoing corridor, past

school lockers, booster club posters and silent classrooms.

They don't touch.   They don't speak.   The tension between

them is palpable.

INT. WHEELER CAR - NIGHT.

Frank drives. April stares ahead.    Their faces are lit by

the dashboard. After a while...

He looks over at her.

Frank clenches his jaw and flips on the indicator.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT.

The car comes to a stop at the side of the road.

INT. WHEELER CAR - NIGHT.

Frank turns off the ignition.   He slides towards her.

He puts his arms around her.

Frank slides back behind the wheel.    Beat.

She opens the door and is out of the car, flashing across the

headlights. Frank struggles with his door.

EXT. HIGHWAY SHOULDER - NIGHT.

April stands in the dark 30 yards from the road looking over

an expansive countryside. There's only a few lights in the

distance. This is still farmland.

Frank comes up behind her, careful to keep his distance.

Frank raises his arms in exasperation. A car approaches.    He

puts a hand in his pocket and tries to look casual. The

car's headlights light up April's back, then pass.

She doesn't move.

She turns and walks past him back towards the car.

He stumbles after her.   Other cars whizz by, but he's past

caring.

She leans against the car and folds her arms.

He raises his fist, she flinches away, and BONG! BONG! BONG!

BONG! He punches the hood of the car. Then, silence. The

look April gives him is probably the worst look he's ever

received: a look of pitying boredom.

She calmly walks around and gets in the car.    After a moment,

Frank follows...

INT. CAR - NIGHT.

They sit silently in the car in the darkness.

TITLE CARD: REVOLUTIONARY ROAD

EXT. WHEELER HOUSE - MORNING.

A small, attractive suburban house in the morning sunshine.

Frank walks out to the car, stops and looks back at the

house.

INT. WHEELER LIVING ROOM - MORNING.

April stands at the window.   The SOUND of the car pulling

away.

EXT. REVOLUTIONARY ROAD TRAIN STATION - MORNING.

Frank stands on a grey platform, amongst a crowd of

commuters. The morning commuter train eases into the

station.

INT. COMMUTER TRAIN - MORNING.

Frank sits against the train window holding a "New Yorker."

Around him, the train is crowded with men reading newspapers.

INT. GRAND CENTRAL PLATFORM - MORNING.

In one swift movement, all the doors of the commuter train

swing open as a hundred feet step down onto the platform.

INT. GRAND CENTRAL STATION - MORNING.

An empty stairwell in Grand Central: a tide of grim,

determined commuters rise into view. A mass of suits and

hats. Frank is amongst them.

EXT. MIDTOWN STREET - MORNING.

Knox Headquarters -- a squat, formidable structure.   Thick

HONKING traffic. Crowded sidewalks.

Frank walks with the crowd past a display window: bright

cardboard images of fashionable women grin and point their

pencils at a list of product benefits - "SPEED, ACCURACY,

CONTROL."

Pride of place at the center of the display is a new Knox 500

Electronic Computer with a sign that reads: "Performs A Man's

Lifetime of Work in Just 30 Minutes!"

INT. KNOX BUILDING ELEVATOR - MORNING.

Frank rides crushed against the wall in a crowded elevator.

He glances over at -

MAUREEN GRUBE, 23, ripe, a little obvious, but undeniably

sexy.   She meets his look. And looks away.

INT. KNOX 15TH FLOOR, FRANK'S CUBICLE - MORNING.

Frank opens the bottom right drawer of his desk, props up his

feet and lights a cigarette.

Seated beside Frank, JACK ORDWAY, 40's, tall and effete with

greying hair, appears to be hard at work, hunched over a

file. He is, in fact, propping up his head with his hand

while shielding his eyes.

EXT. WHEELER HOUSE - DAY.

April drags two overflowing garbage cans to the curb. She

stops and looks down the empty road. Not a single human

being in sight.

Close on April's face.

INT. MRS. GIVINGS' CAR - DAY, 1948. FLASHBACK.

Mrs. Givings sits behind the wheel, driving slowly along a

suburban street talking at high speed.

Frank sits beside her wearing sunglasses.    April sits in the

back.

We don't yet see what Mrs. Givings is describing, only as it

plays on their faces.

Frank turns around to April, lowers his glasses. April

stifles a giggle.

They all look.

April smiles.    A smile full of promise.

INT. BANDY'S OFFICE - DAY. PRESENT.

Frank's FIST raps against the door of an office...

TED BANDY, 46, tight and precise, looks up from behind a well-

organized desk.

Bandy holds out an envelope from behind his desk.

Frank reaches for it, but Bandy moves it out of reach.

Frank reaches again, but Bandy moves it.   A little man

enjoying his power.

Bandy finally hands over the envelope.

INT. KNOX 15TH FLOOR, FRANK'S CUBICLE - DAY.

Frank sits at his desk.

Frank drops it in his In Box. Then, looking up, he sees

Maureen across the office. Thinks.

INT. KNOX 15TH FLOOR, MAUREEN'S DESK - DAY.

Frank stands over Maureen at her desk.   The envelope from

Toledo lies in front of her.

She nods, jotting down a note.

For the first time, Frank allows himself to take in her

profile, her cleavage, her lips.

INT. ALGONQUIN HOTEL RESTAURANT - AFTERNOON.

Maureen and Frank sit in a secluded corner.    Maureen sips a

martini. She's already a little drunk.

He waves over the waiter.

Maureen looks daunted at her empty glass.

The waiter brings over the phone. Frank dials. He holds his

finger to his lips. He uses an authoritative tone.

Frank hangs up and smiles at Maureen.

Maureen smiles.

INT. WHEELER HALLWAY - DAY.

Now we're moving behind April as she moves through the silent

house. She carries a basket of dirty laundry on her hip.

She pulls the bedding off the couch. The distant SOUND of

children playing.

She turns to see Mrs. Givings at the screen door.

April manages a friendly smile.

She puts it on the table.

Helen sits down. With the end of her finger, she pushes a

dirty dish out of her way.

April's face.   She knows what it means.

Mrs. Givings smiles. Then, pretending to read the titles on

a stack of books on the table...

She pauses on Sartre's `Nausea', looks at it vaguely.

April smiles generously.

April's face.    She's listening.

April takes this in.

INT. WHEELER HOUSE - AFTERNOON.

April watches from the picture window as Mrs. Givings walks

down the drive towards her car. Her face is reflected in the

glass. Something is taking shape in her mind.

INT. ALGONQUIN RESTAURANT BAR - AFTERNOON, LATER.

The dining room is now almost empty.     Waiters and busboys eat

in the corner.

Frank cuts a solitary figure.     He lights his last cigarette

and crumples the pack.

Maureen slides into the booth.     She stares at the table,

trying to focus.

Maureen raises her glass, then sways drunkenly.

He sips his drink.

She looks up at him.

Frank grins as if it's supposed to be very funny.

Frank takes her arm to steady her.   She meets his eye.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN - DAY.

Close on a hand opening an old cigar box.

April is sitting with the box at the kitchen table. It

contains various sentimental knickknacks from her past,

including photos of the kids, of her and Frank in New York

with friends, and a photograph of Frank in uniform beneath

the Eifel tower on liberation day... She studies it.

INT. BETHUNE STREET APARTMENT - DAWN, 1947. FLASHBACK

Frank fixes coffee in the tiny kitchen.

April is sitting up in bed in the first blue light of day

wearing Frank's T-shirt. She holds a curled collection of

black and white photographs in her lap. She stops on the

same picture of Frank and the Eifel Tower.

Frank comes over with the coffee, and two cigarettes.     He

lights them both, and gives her one.

He lies down with his cigarette between his teeth.

He stares up at the ceiling.    She studies him.   Appraising.

He looks at her, overwhelmed by her face in the light.

INT. MAUREEN'S APARTMENT - AFTERNOON

Frank stands at the mantle tying his tie.

Maureen covers herself with the sheets.

Frank inspects the contents of the mantle: photos of Maureen

at the prom; Maureen with her parents.

Maureen tentatively fingers her hair that has now gone to

frizz. The sheet slips down. She grabs at it. Then wills

herself to calm down and act sophisticated.

He turns and smiles at her.

He comes over and gives her one. Lights it with his Zippo.

She exhales, slowly gaining confidence.

Frank gets up and pulls on his jacket.

He comes over to her.   Bends down, kisses her gently on the

lips.

INT. FRANK'S STATION CAR/WHEELER HOUSE - NIGHT.

Frank's station car turns into the driveway.     He sits there a

moment in the darkness.

EXT. WHEELER FRONT DOOR - NIGHT.

Frank approaches the door with his key. He takes a moment to

gather himself, but before he can, the door opens.

April is dressed in a black cocktail dress. She looks

wonderful. She smiles. She steps forward and takes his face

in her hands. She kisses him.

She hands him a glass of whiskey and closes his fingers

around it.

She goes, leaving Frank in stunned silence.    He takes a large

drink.

From inside the house, the sound of the children's voices.

Whispering, giggling. Then April's voice:

INT. WHEELER LIVING AND DINING ROOMS - NIGHT.

Frank enters the house.    Walks through the darkened living

room towards the light.    Enters the dining room.

The room is lit by the candles burning on a birthday cake.

JENNIFER, 7, MICHAEL, 5, and April sit around the table

wearing paper birthday crowns.

They sing Happy Birthday.

INT. SHOWER - NIGHT.

Frank scrubs his skin, his scalp, his face: trying to wash

away Maureen.

He turns off the water.   He stands there in the silence,

regaining control.

INT. FRANK AND APRIL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.

Frank steps out of the bathroom. April turns from the mirror

wearing the silk negligee and comes towards him with two

glasses.

She hands Frank a glass of brandy.

Frank stares.

Frank laughs.

Frank laughs again.

She draws back, shocked that he doesn't get it.

Frank is silent.   How could anyone possibly argue with her?

He looks at her.   She gazes back at him.

Frank looks at her. In that moment, he loves her more than

ever before. He kisses her.

Beat.

April throws her arms around him.

INT. KNOX 15TH FLOOR, ELEVATOR BAY - MORNING.

DING. The elevator doors slide open.   Frank steps onto the

fifteenth floor, full of energy.

INT. KNOX 15TH FLOOR, FRANK'S CUBICLE - MORNING.

Frank arrives at his desk.   Casually tosses his briefcase

down. Lights a cigarette.

Jack stands nearby making idle chat with office co-workers,

ED SMALL, 36 and VINCE LATHROP, 33 - a pair of overgrown

children.

Frank shrugs, smiles, picks up the Toledo file, scans it.

He reaches for his Dictaphone and clears his throat.

He takes out a cigarette.

He lights the cigarette with a SNAP of his Zippo.

Smiles. He's making it up as he goes, and enjoying it.   It's

all meaningless now!

INT. AMERICAN EXPRESS OFFICE - DAY.

April sits in the American Express office.

A handsome CLERK smilingly hands her a stack of documents.

She looks at them in her hands: it's real.

April smiles.

INT. MIDTOWN RESTAURANT - DAY.

Jack, Frank, Ed and Vince sit crammed in a booth in a tiny,

crowded Midtown Luncheonette.

Frank looks pleased with himself.    The rest sit in stunned

silence.

Jack and Vince exchange a look.

Frank's enjoying the effect.

A waitress puts the check on the table.

The men are silent.   Frank picks up the check.

EXT GRAND CENTRAL STATION - AFTERNOON

Frank is standing leaning against a coffee bar in Grand

Central Station. He is finishing a beer.

It is rush hour, and amidst the sea of people, he is the only

one not moving.

He is watching all the people walking by with an air of

detached amusement. As if he were now above them all.

EXT. SPACE BETWEEN TRAIN CARS - AFTERNOON.

Frank rides between train cars. The wind whips his hair. He

takes a deep pull from a pinched cigarette - then flicks it

straight as a bullet into the passing countryside.

He feels alive.

EXT. REVOLUTIONARY ROAD TRAIN STATION - AFTERNOON.

The commuter train slows into the station. A door swings

open. And Frank leaps from the still moving train onto the

platform. He slows to a walk.

EXT. WHEELER HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON.

The kids dance back and forth through the sprinkler,

shrieking with pleasure.

April sits on the steps in front of the house reading some

material from the American Express office.

She looks up as Frank's car pulls into the drive. He steps

out of the car and comes towards her. She looks up and

smiles. He drops his brief case on the ground and walks

towards her. She meets him in the middle of the lawn, and

they embrace.

INT. FRANK AND APRIL'S BEDROOM - EVENING.

CLOSE UP - two fingers walk the journey from New York to

Paris across the page of an atlas.

Michael and Jennifer, dressed for bed, sit sandwiched between

April and Frank under the bedclothes.

A pause as the two kids stare at the Atlas.

Frank senses that they are a little concerned.   April and

Frank look to one another.

The children dissolve into disgusted laughter.    April and

Frank laugh with them.

INT. CAMPBELL FRONT HALLWAY - LATE AFTERNOON.

At the bottom of the stairs, Shep hums a big band number as

he vigorously shines his shoes.

He takes a swig of beer and lets out a satisfied belch.

INT. MILLY AND SHEP'S BEDROOM - LATE AFTERNOON.

Milly sits at a vanity table doing her face. She wears a

floral dress and her hair's been done. She looks at Shep in

the mirror.

He walks into the bathroom.    Milly looks back at her

reflection.

INT. CAMPBELL KITCHEN - LATE AFTERNOON.

The small explosion of a beer can opening.

Shep watches the golden liquid fill his glass.

INT. CAMPBELL FAMILY ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON.

Shep walks through the living room with his glass of beer.

He's halfway across the room, before he notices -

His four SONS dressed in matching pajamas, propped up on

their elbows chewing gum at the television screen.

They don't even look up.

EXT. CAMPBELL HOUSE - EVENING.

Shep walks across the grass to the edge of his property. He

drinks and looks down over Revolutionary Road. He can see

the Wheeler house. He takes a drink of beer, his eyes

focused on the house.

Shep wheels around. April and Frank are standing there with

Milly. April wears a new indigo silk dress. Her hair moves

in the warm breeze. She's never looked better.

INT. CAMPBELL LIVING ROOM - NIGHT.

Shep mixes drinks with his back to the room.

Milly walks in and places two heaping trays of hors d'ouvres

on the coffee table.

April helps herself.

Shep and Milly look up expectantly.

He smiles conspiratorially at April.

April smiles back at him.

Milly's face drops.    Shep is frozen.

Overlapping:

Beat.   Then:

Milly glances nervously at Shep.

Shep forces himself across the room and hands the Wheelers

their drinks.

Beat.

Beat.

A   silence.   Shep's face.

INT. MILLY AND SHEP'S BEDROOM - NIGHT.

Milly sits on the edge of the bed in her night gown.   She is

brushing her hair.

Shep stands in the open doorway to the bathroom, doing up his

pyjamas. After a beat...

Milly looks up.

Milly's face brightens.

Milly is crying.

He sits down beside her.   She falls into his arms.

A kid's shout from somewhere in the house.     Milly sits up.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN - LATER THAT NIGHT.

Frank and April burst into the kitchen, laughing.

Laughing, April hands Frank a drink.

He looks at her.   And there's something in her eyes.

He walks over to her and kisses her passionately.

And they make love that way, face to face, with the lights

on, looking into each other's eyes, fully clothed, until he

comes inside her.

As he comes, she makes a sound, almost inaudible, but it

sounds like...

He holds her, breathing heavily.    She strokes his head.

INT. KNOX 15TH FLOOR - DAY.

Frank walks across the 15th floor, the atmosphere unusually

abuzz.

He arrives in his cubicle. Jack, Ed and Vance are talking in

hushed tones.

A small signal light illuminates on Frank's desk.

Frank looks around. They're all looking at him.     He looks

over in the direction of Bandy's office.

INT. KNOX 15TH FLOOR, BANDY'S OFFICE - DAY

Bandy looks up from his desk.   An uncharacteristic smile.

A massive MAN in tan gaberdine rises up from a chair.

He holds a file in his enormous hand.

Frank looks away, ready for a dressing down.

He slaps the file on the desk.    Frank can't believe it.

INT. WHEELER LIVING ROOM - DAY.

Close of a book: "Brighter French."

Frank sits on the couch, flipping absently.

April enters carrying a plate of sandwiches.

April looks around to be sure everything's in place.

Frank looks away.

TOOT of a car horn.   April goes to the window.

INT./EXT. WHEELER HOUSE - DAY.

Through the picture window, we see the Givings' car is parked

in the driveway.

Mrs. Givings gets out of the car holding a tinfoil covered

baking pan. Mr. Givings opens the backseat.

Out steps JOHN, 30's, an institutional haircut and ill-

fitting suit. He looks around the sunny neighborhood.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN - DAY.

The kitchen is suddenly crowded with the Givings, Frank and

April.

Overlapping:

Hands are shook, the baking dish exchanged.

John stands by himself closest to the door.

Silence settles over the room.

John smiles, exposing a mouthful of deeply-stained yellow

teeth and high, eroded gums.

INT. WHEELER LIVING ROOM - DAY.

Mrs. Givings leads the group into the living room.

John walks around the room, stiff-legged, examining the book

shelves, the paintings.

April and Frank exchange a quick glance.

April lifts the plate and offers it to John.

He avoids her look, but he takes four.

Polite laughter.

April can't suppress a smile.

Mr. Givings eats his sandwich, watching his son.

Frank hands John his high-ball glass.

Mr. Givings gives his son a level, warning look.

Frank and April exchange a look.

Mrs. Givings gets up and goes to the window.

April's face.   She's not smiling now.

With her back to the room, Mrs. Givings closes her eyes.

John stares at Frank for any sign of condescension.

Frank laughs.

John smiles his yellow grin.

John looks over at his mother.

John bursts into a painful braying laugh.   It goes on and on.

Mrs. Givings brings a hand to her brow - she's on the verge

of tears.

April looks at Frank - the whole thing is in danger of going

off the rails.

John stops laughing abruptly.    He looks to his parents.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY.

Frank, April and John walk through the woods.

The ground is freshly rained on and damp.    The sun is bright.

John buttons up his top button and pulls his sleeves down

over his hands.

He pushes his hat back and turns his head at April.

There are scars on his forehead.       April can see them.

John stares at April.    He smiles.

John comes to a stop.

John continues walking.   Frank and April watch him go.

INT. WHEELER LIVING ROOM - DUSK.

Frank and April at the kitchen table.

EXT. WHEELER HOUSE - DAY

The small, attractive house bathed in sunlight.

INT. MIDTOWN HOTEL RESTAURANT - AFTERNOON.

Frank follows Bart Pollock as he cuts a swathe through an

impressive midtown eatery. A small MAITRE D' scuttles in

front of them. Bart nods, points at well-wishers, and makes

a politician's show of knowing the staff.

Frank smirks at the performance.

INT. MIDTOWN HOTEL RESTAURANT - LATER.

Bart Pollock sits across an expanse of white tablecloth

gripping a martini glass in one of his enormous paws.

Frank looks down at his plate.   He can't help himself.

Bart looks at him blankly.

Frank smiles.   Looks down.

Bart holds up his hands.

Frank's face.

Bart lets it hang.

On Frank's face.

Frank finds himself surprised by his welling up of emotion.

INT. KNOX BUILDING - EVENING.

It's late. Frank is sitting in his cubicle over his

Dictaphone. Jack is long gone.

He stubs out a cigarette in an overflowing ashtray.

Close on his face.

Maureen stops by Frank's cubicle.   She pretends to be

surprised to see him.

Frank shrugs, no big deal.

Frank's face.   We don't know which way he'll go.   He smiles.

She smiles.   She can't quite believe it.

Frank sits there a moment longer, thinking.    Then he follows.

INT. WHEELER FAMILY ROOM - DAY.

On a television. Elmer Fudd points a gun at Bugs Bunny, and

pulls the trigger.

Frank frowns into his French phrase book.   Mike is watching

the TV.

April works a sewing machine with a cigarette burning beside

her. Jennifer stands beside her holding a stuffed Giraffe

and a list, which she reads.

April has to stop to re-thread and she's losing patience.

Frank lowers the book.   He recognizes her tone.

Jennifer turns and runs up the stairs, upset.

April lets out a defeated sigh. She turns to the kitchen to

see to the supper. Steam rises from the vegetables.

Frank stands in the entrance silently watching for a moment.

She carries a pot of steaming, overcooked vegetables to the

sink, slops them into a colander.

She finally stops and looks at him.

Beat as he absorbs it.    He's totally blind-sided.

She comes over to him.

He stares, still unsure how he feels.

She looks at him, with slight desperation.

He just looks at her and his silence makes her desperate.

He takes her in his arms.

On Frank's face... Slowly, he smiles.

EXT. LONG ISLAND SOUND BEACH - AFTERNOON.

A baking hot day. The sky is electric blue. Radios PLAY,

children CRY, dogs BARK. Sunbathers cover almost every inch

of sand.

We find Shep, Milly, Frank and April with beach chairs,

coolers and umbrellas.

A child wrapped in a towel sleeps on Milly's lap.

April wears a pair of dark glasses, behind which she is

thinking, thinking.

April turns and looks at Frank. Long and hard.   If he can

feel her look, he doesn't show it.

April suddenly stands up.    Frank and Shep watch her walk down

to the water's edge.

Frank stares after her.

EXT. LONG ISLAND SOUND BEACH, WATER'S EDGE - AFTERNOON.

April stands in the water staring out over the sea. The

waves break against her ankles. Whether it occurs to her or

not, she's staring in the direction of Europe.

Frank comes up beside her.

April shakes her head and drags on her cigarette.

She stares out at the sea.

She turns to him.

She just looks at him. He walks into the ocean.   She stands

on the shore, watching him swim away from her.

INT. WHEELER FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT.

April paces the family room. Her hair is a defiant mess.

She still wears her bathing suit under her clothes.

Frank sits on the couch.

The windows are open, and most of the lights are off. It's a

very hot night.

He shakes his head and gets up.

She disgustedly twists out her cigarette, and immediately

lights another.

INT. WHEELER BATHROOM - NIGHT.

Frank splashes water on his face like a boxer between rounds.

He looks up at his reflection.

He reaches for a towel, but there isn't one. He turns to the

shelf behind him and pulls down a fresh towel. Something

catches his eye.

He reaches to the back and retrieves a small brown paper

package.

He opens it, his face slowly registering what it means...

INT. WHEELER FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT.

April wheels around as -

Frank storms in, a rubber syringe in his hand.

He comes at her across the room with the syringe in his hand.

She moves away.

He shakes it in her face.

He turns away.

He won't answer.

Frank turns towards her.

April's face.

April turns to the book shelves.   Her back to him.

Frank waits, his heart beating quickly.

Her eyes are bright with tears.

Everything hangs on Frank's answer...

April closes her eyes. Tears run down her cheeks.   He walks

over to her, but he doesn't touch her.

She cries quietly.

She turns to face him.

INT. WHEELER LIVING ROOM - MORNING.

Frank stands at the picture window watching...

April approach the children. She squats on the ground so she

can be at their height and talks to them. Michael tries to

get into her arms. Jennifer turns away and walks sulkily

across the grass.

Frank looks into his coffee cup.   He doesn't look like a man

who won an argument.

INT. KNOX WAITING ROOM - DAY.

Frank sits smoking nervously in an oak-paneled waiting room.

The door opens behind him. He gets to his feet.

He follows her through the door.    The door closes behind her.

We see the scene in dumb-show through the glass door. Bart

looks up as Frank enters. An "I knew it all along" smile

spreads across Pollock's face. He offers his hand to Frank.

Frank smiles thinly. They shake.

INT. MIDTOWN RESTAURANT - DAY.

Frank, Ed, Vince and Jack sit in the same booth in the same

crowded luncheonette.

Frank stares out the window.   The others can't contain

themselves.

He raises his glass, drinks alone.

Frank looks away from the window.

Frank glares with barely contained fury.

A beat.

Ed and Vince chuckle.   Frank's face.

INT. VITO'S LOG CABIN - NIGHT.

Two drumsticks spinning in a spotlight.   They click out a

rhythm, and crash into a number.

Cut back to reveal a small, low-ceilinged joint. On-stage

are the Steve Kovack quartet, four perspiring middle-aged men

with day jobs.

YOUNGISH COUPLES, and the odd middle-aged COUPLE navigate the

dance floor.

A smattering of lost SINGLES line the bar.

The Wheelers and Campbells sit squashed into a booth on the

side of the dance floor.

Several empty glasses have accumulated. Milly is beating the

edge of the table with red drink straws. She's a few drinks

ahead.

They have to SHOUT over the MUSIC.

They laugh at the old joke.   Then Milly begins to weep.

She knocks her drink back.    The number finishes.

April stares out at the dance floor.    Frank looks at her.   A

new number starts.

Milly takes him by the hand and pulls him away. Shep and

April watch. Then Shep turns his attention to April.

Frank turns his attention to Milly. He's a good dancer. His

movements are fast and aggressive, his mind on April.

Milly is a little too drunk, and hurries to keep up,

perspiring through her dress. He spins her around and

around, back and forth into his arms. Milly begins to look

slightly dizzy.

He doesn't hear her over the music, or he doesn't care.

Her body spasms with the need to be sick. She turns and

rushes for the lady's room.

EXT. VITO'S LOG CABIN - NIGHT.

Frank leads the way through the cars.

Shep supports Milly who is now falling down drunk.

April walks alone a few paces behind...

They reach Shep's car, which is trapped behind several other

cars.

A beat.   Frank looks to April.

Frank holds April's look an instant, then walks away with car

keys in hand.

INT. VITO'S LOG CABIN - NIGHT.

Steve Kovack performs an exhausting, sweat-drenched drum

solo.

April and Shep now sit alone in the booth.

April distantly nods her thanks.

Shep sips his beer, trying to figure out how to connect with

her...

Shep nods, not entirely sure what she means.

She takes a long slug of her drink.

April doesn't hear, she's pursuing her thought...

April turns and stares at him.

The band strikes up a new number.

INT. VITO'S LOG CABIN, DANCE FLOOR - NIGHT.

April and Shep dance.

Shep can't dance well, but he's trying. April, on the other

hand, is a wonderful dancer. She dances out as far as their

joined hands allow and does a little twitching, hip-bobbing

curtsies before twisting back, all seemingly effortless. It

is joyous, released.

INT. SHEP'S CAR - NIGHT.

Shep slips behind the wheel and is immediately kissing her,

groping.

She climbs into the back seat. He pulls off his jacket and

climbs in after her. He folds the jacket under her head for

a pillow...

She remains perfectly still, allowing him to kiss her, to

search under her clothing, to kiss her skin and finally, to

lift her skirt and pull her clothing aside and make love to

her against the vinyl seat cover...

As suddenly as it began, it's over. Shep collapses against

her. April stares into the darkness.

They begin to quietly assemble themselves.

INT. FRANK AND APRIL'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Frank stands at the mirror putting on a clean shirt.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN/DINING ROOM - AFTERNOON.

April stands at the kitchen table chopping vegetables.    She

wears an unflattering floral dress.

Frank stands in the doorway watching.

He glances at the calendar.

She doesn't look at him.

He walks over to her.   He takes her in his arms.   She

stiffens.

She looks him straight in the eye.

She pulls herself free of his grasp. He watches as she adds

the vegetables in the pot on the stove.

He smiles patiently.

She's utterly uninterested and it's making him nervous.

She continues folding the napkins.

Finally, she stops moving.   She looks at him.

He is suddenly unsure.

He tries that same patient smile, but it's not convincing.

She is frighteningly calm.

His panic mounts.

She goes back into the kitchen. Frank follows her.

Frank and April stare at each other, breathless.

INT. WHEELER DINING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON.

Frank and the Givings' sit with cocktails. It's painfully

awkward. Moving boxes are everywhere.

Frank looks at April. She avoids his look.

John looks up.

Frank looks at April.

April manages a forced smile.

John gets to his feet.

He fixes Frank with the stare of a prosecuting attorney.

John holds up a hand.

John paces the room, with his hands behind his back like a

detective at a murder scene.

He turns the force of his smile on April.

She walks across the room and stabs out her cigarette.   Then

immediately lights another.

He swings around to face Frank.

Frank stares back defiantly.   Rage bubbling.

John holds up his hand.

Frank's face.

Frank stares at John, his rage increasing.   Mr. Givings gets

to his feet.

He lets out his braying laugh.   April starts to laugh.

April stares at Frank.

Mr. Givings moves John towards the door. Mrs. Givings slowly

stands. April is the only one left seated.

He winks at April and puts his hat on.

April's face.

Frank lunges at John. Mr. Givings tries to hold Frank back.

Mrs. Givings leaps between them. She's crying.

Silence.   Mr. Givings slowly releases Frank.   He is

breathing heavily.

He guides him from the room.

He takes another step towards the door, then stops and turns

back, laughing again.

He points a yellow-stained finger at April's stomach.

They go out.

Frank goes to the liquor cabinet, pours a whiskey and drinks

it.

April watches him from across the room.

He turns to April.

He comes towards her.

She looks at him.    Then she begins to laugh.

She reels around the room, her laughter increasingly out of

control.

He takes a step towards her.

All the laughter goes out of her face.   She backs away.

He takes her by the arms.

She SCREAMS. High and shrill.    Her eyes wide open, cold and

perfectly calm.

She slips past him.

He goes after her.

She pulls a chair into his path.

He SLINGS it against the wall.

He begins to shake with anger.

He points at her belly.

He strides out of the room.

INT. FRANK AND APRIL'S BEDROOM - EVENING.

Frank enters the bedroom and slams the door.

He paces, slowly calming.

He sits on the bed with his head in his hands... His mind

racing. Then he's on his feet again. He rushes for the

door.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN - EVENING.

Frank enters, running, but the kitchen is empty.   Frank runs

out of the room into living room.

INT. WHEELER LIVING ROOM - EVENING

The living room is empty.   He goes straight for the front

door.

EXT. WHEELER HOUSE - EVENING.

Frank bursts out the front and comes to a stop.

She's across the street - climbing unsteadily into the

woods...

Frank breaks into a sprint.

EXT. WOODS - EVENING.

April walks through the woods.

Frank runs up behind her, scrambling through the muddy

bracken.

April wheels around.

He stops moving.

She backs up against a tree trunk, looking down at him.

Frank has no choice - they're outside. The neighbors would

hear and call the police. He reluctantly backs away, then

turns back the way he came, glancing over his shoulder as he

goes.

INT. WHEELER FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT.

Frank stands at the window watching the section of woods

where he left April.

Then, he sees her come back across the street. She walks

around the side of the house. He turns and runs into the

kitchen.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN - NIGHT.

Frank goes to the window. He watches April walk up into the

yard and stop against a tree.

Frank pours a drink and takes the bottle with him to the

window. He looks out, drinking.

In the darkness, he can make out the glow of April's

cigarette deep in the woods.

INT. FRANK AND APRIL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT, LATER.

Frank falls back on the bed.

He's now very drunk.

His eyes close as he slips into unconsciousness.

INT. FRANK AND APRIL'S BEDROOM - MORNING.

Frank wakes alone.     He looks around the room.   His head is

throbbing.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN - MORNING.

Frank stands in the doorway dressed for work.      He stares...

The kitchen has been tidied and is bathed in sunlight.     The

table has been carefully set for two.

April stands at the stove wearing a fresh maternity dress.

She seems serene.

April turns and looks at him.

He stands there frozen.

Frank sits at the table.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN - MORNING, MOMENTS LATER.

Frank and April sit across the kitchen table, eating.   For

several moments, only the sound of their cutlery.

April reaches out to pour him some orange juice.   Her hands

shake slightly.

He shrugs.

He takes a pencil from his inside pocket and delicately

sketches the computer on the napkin.

She picks up the drawing and looks at it.       It's surprisingly

delicate.

He smiles, flattered and surprised.    He slips the pencil into

the inside pocket of his suit.

He stands.    April stands up too, smoothing her skirt.

They stand there gazing at one another across the table.

Suddenly, inexplicably, his eyes are filled with tears.

He turns and walks to the door. He puts his hand on the

handle and turns back once more.

She comes over to him.

He leans down and kisses her tenderly.   They look at one

another a moment longer.

He steps through the door. She catches the door before it

shuts and watches him through the screen.

EXT. WHEELER DRIVEWAY - MORNING.

April walks out onto the driveway as the car reverses away

down the drive.

INT. WHEELER CAR - MORNING.

Frank backs the car onto the road. He slides the car into

drive and then catches sight of April in the driveway.

EXT. WHEELER DRIVEWAY - MORNING.

April sees Frank looking back at her.    She waves.   Frank

waves from the car and drives off...

Then April is alone. She shivers from the morning chill.

She turns and looks back at the house.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN - MORNING.

April enters through the screen door and goes to the table.

She looks down at Frank's diagram and carefully places it

aside.

She carries the dishes to the sink and begins to wash them.

Suddenly, her body convulses as she tries to hold back from

crying. And then there is no stopping the tears...

INT. WHEELER HALLWAY - MORNING.

April is standing by the phone, with her hand on the

receiver, rehearsing. She is smoking. She dials.

April uses both hands to grip the receiver.

The cigarette shreds in April's hand.

She hangs up and begins to cry again.   Takes a breath.

INT. WHEELER HALLWAY - MORNING.

FOOTSTEPS...

We move behind April as she walks through the silent house.

The distant SOUND of children playing outside.

Each room she passes is a pocket of silence.

INT. FRANK AND APRIL'S BEDROOM - MORNING.

April makes the bed.

She arranges her shoes on the floor of the closet.

April reaches onto a shelf behind some clothes.   Pulls out

the brown paper package.

INT. WHEELER KITCHEN - MORNING.

April stands at the stove over a pot of rolling, boiling

water.

She removes the rubber syringe from its paper packaging and

drops it into the pot. She checks her watch.

INT. WHEELER HALLWAY - DAY.

April carries the pot of boiling, sudsy water down the hall.

INT. WHEELER BATHROOM - DAY.

April places the pot into the tub.   She lays towels across

the floor. And closes the door...

INT. WHEELER BATHROOM - DAY, MOMENTS LATER.

The SOUND of running water. The empty mirror.     April's face

rises up into the reflection with a gasp.

INT. WHEELER HALLWAY - DAY.

We move with April down the hallway, her face is pale.

INT. WHEELER LIVING ROOM - DAY, LATER.

Now April stands at the picture window.    She is shaking.

A DROPLET of blood slides down her knee.   She looks down.

On the floor, two droplets of blood appear between her bare

feet...

Now we see the bright maple leaf of blood seeping through her

skirt. She is shaking more.

She walks slowly out of the room, towards the kitchen.

INT. CAMPBELL KITCHEN - DAY.

Milly folds laundry. She looks up to see -

An ambulance turns into the Wheeler's driveway.   Her face

clouds with instinctual foreboding.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - AFTERNOON.

Shep steps out into a hospital hallway.

Frank paces, helpless in the waiting room, his face a mask of

bewildered, childlike confusion. He looks up to see -

Shep coming towards him.

Shep offers the pack.   Frank doesn't take one.

Shep's face as he realizes what he's saying.

Shep takes a cigarette for himself.   He lights it with

trembling fingers.

Frank looks over at Shep as if he'd forgotten him.   He nods.

Shep stands and walks down the hall.

INT. HOSPITAL - COFFEE MACHINE - AFTERNOON.

Shep stands at a coffee machine, gathering himself. He looks

up. He begins to feed coins into the machine. His hands are

trembling. He drops a coin. It rolls under the machine. He

has to get down on his hands and knees to retrieve it...

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - AFTERNOON.

Shep walks tentatively, holding a cup in each hand, slopping

coffee onto the floor...

He rounds the corner and stops.

Frank is no longer in his chair at the end of the long

echoing hallway. Shep looks around...

Then suddenly, the double doors are flung open and a number

of nurses hurry out. Behind them, comes Frank, supported by

two Doctors.

Shep runs to them as they move Frank over to a chair.    He's

in shock.

They try to make him sit, but he stays stubbornly on his

feet, the chair skidding behind him.

Frank looks at Shep - his face is a terrifying blank.

EXT. REVOLUTIONARY ROAD - MAGIC HOUR.

A toyland of white and pastel houses along the road. The

crisp green lawns. The blue televisions flickering behind

the glass.

We hear the WHISK of running footsteps on the asphalt, the

rush of a man's breath...

Frank is running down the middle of the street, tears

streaming silently down his face...

INT. CAMPBELL LIVING ROOM - EVENING, ONE YEAR LATER.

Four high-ball glasses with glistening cubes of ice.

Shep puts the finishing touches on four drinks.

MR. and MRS. BRACE, a pleasant looking young couple fresh

from the city sit on the couch.

Shep picks up the drinks and carries them across the room.

He stands there beside the three of them, but he can't bring

himself to sit down and join in.

Mr. Brace removes his pipe and looks at it.

Shep nods.

Shep turns and walks out of the room.

EXT. CAMPBELL HOUSE - EVENING.

Shep walks across the lawn to the edge of the property. He

looks out over the suburban houses. At what was once the

Wheeler house.

Shep's face, looking out. His eyes are filled with tears.

Milly comes up behind him.

She takes his arm and holds him close.

Shep and Milly look out over Revolutionary Road.

EXT. CITY PARK - DAY.

The same silence over a beautiful day in the city.    And

from the silence, the faint sound of wind through the leafy

branches of trees.

Two children play in a playground in a small park.

It's Jennifer and Michael.    They seem happy, engrossed. Other

kids play around them.

Watching them from a bench is Frank.   He is a little older, a

little thinner.

Close on Frank's face.   The SOUND of his children playing.

INT. GIVINGS' LIVING ROOM - DAY

Mrs. Givings crouches on a cotton work sheet painting varnish

onto a chair. Mr. Givings sits reading the paper.

A new puppy sleeps curled up on the rug nearby.

Mr. Givings fiddles with his hearing aid.

Mr. Givings reaches up to his ear and SUDDENLY... SILENCE...

but for the faint sound of wind.

He gazes out the window as behind him Mrs. Givings continues

to talk, but we can't hear a thing.

He has turned off his hearing aid.

