May 1,1997

RKO 281 by John Logan

INT LARGE, DARK ROOM NIGHT

In the ebony shadows of a large room we can make out corners and edges,

moldings and cornices; the phantoms of decaying Victorian wealth

floating like disembodied ghosts in the darkness.

It is May 6, 1924 The harsh flare of a match being struck

A shadowy male figure lights a series of nine candles on a birthday

cake. Beyond the cake we can see a bed.

On the bed lies a woman in her early forties. She is ashen and sickly.

Dying.

The shadowy male figure finishes lighting the candles, blows out the

match and disappears as the woman peers into the darkness.

A nine-year-old boy steps into the light.

She pulls him close and whispers:

Never stand in the shadows --

The boy immediately spins to the cake and blows out the candles. A

moment of darkness. He turns back to the bed. The woman and the bed are

gone, faded into darkness.

The solemn young lad stares and stares into the darkness

And then, magically, the faint glimmer of twinkling stars fill his huge

dark eyes.

NEWSREEL The flickering images of an old newsreel, circa 1940

Under the MGM logo we see the title: BOY WONDER WOWS HOLLYWOOD!

The first image after the title is the imposing figure of ORSON WELLES,

climbing down from an airplane and surveying the world at his feet.

Welles is 24 years old and somewhat handsome. Welles seems rather

uncomfortable in his own body, as if it could not possibly contain his

vast passions and appetites.

Orson Welles is man who tears his way through life with incendiary

energy. He is at once inspiring and ferocious; visionary and coldly

ambitious. He is part artist, part fraud and all showman.

A sonorous voice accompanies the newsreel. The voice is always grand,

occasionally sardonic.

Images of Welles as a baby and his early life fill the screen: Welles

in a crib; as a pampered schoolboy; at dance class; drama club; dressed

up for a magic show. As we hear:

At three the genius was reciting Shakespeare and at eight he had taken

up cigars and highballs and was learning magic from the  knee of the

great Houdini.

Images of Welles' early theatrical career: the young man playing

impossibly old parts; vaudeville magic shows; various regional

theaters; endless tawdry rehearsal rooms

Then images of Welles and JOHN HOUSEMAN in New York: the great,

bustling city; Welles at work with John Houseman on a script; Welles

directing a play. As we hear:

A rehearsal room interview with John Houseman, who is in his 30's,

thin-lipped and prim:

Images of Welles directing his famous "Fascist JULIUS CAESAR" and

"Voodoo MACBETH" productions: auditions; rehearsals; perfecting a

sword-fight; rejecting classical costume sketches for JULIUS CAESAR;

supervising set construction; performing Brutus in the Albert Speer-

like Nuremberg rally lighting of JULIUS CAESAR. As we hear:

More images of New York, Welles, Houseman and radio: Welles directing a

radio play with sweeping energy; supervising the elaborate sound

effects; editing the script; at odds with Houseman. As we hear:

Newsreel footage of Welles at a standing radio microphone;

Welles laughs his sinister Shadow laugh and we go to more images of

radio and the dynamic Welles performing and directing as we hear:

What started out as a roguish Halloween prank became the most famous

radio show in the history of the galaxy!

Images of the WAR OF THE WORLDS broadcast and panic: listeners huddling

next to their radios; telephone switchboards lighting up; New Jersey

State Motorcycle Troopers zooming down rural roads; cars clogging the

highways. As we hear:

Newsreel footage of a packed press conference with Welles the day

following the broadcast:

Quick newsreel clips of Welles leaving the press conference with

Houseman. We see them slip into a taxi. Inside the taxi we can just

glimpse Welles exploding with laughter.

Images of Welles posing and shaking hands with GEORGE

Schaefer is an intense, compact man in his early 50's. His nickname in

Hollywood is "The Tiger" -- both for his admired tenacity and his

feared temper. He is a moral and ethical man; John Adams in a Brooks

Brothers suit.

As we hear

Images of Welles and Schaefer: Welles signing his contract; smiling to

Schaefer; Schaefer making a speech; Welles joking with reporters. As we

hear:

An interview with a Hollywood Insider, who looks like a bookie:

Images of Welles arriving in Hollywood and touring the town: Welles

climbing down from a plane; posing with Schaefer before of the RKO

gates; touring the studio; leaning over an editing machine; laughing

with female extras in the commissary; posing in front of his Brentwood

home. As we hear:

More images of Welles in Hollywood: Welles touring the town; visiting

all the nightclubs and dancing with beautiful women; he is seen

everywhere about the town. As we hear:

Shots of Welles with LOUELLA PARSONS and HEDDA HOPPER

Louella is a much-feared gossip columnist. She is a gorgon in her 60's;

Margaret Dumont possessed by the devil and tanked up on gin. Her

capricious cruelty is only matched by her fervent loyalty to all things

Hearstian.

Hedda is a gossip columnist in her 50's. She is given to elaborate hats

and villainous intrigue. Louella's younger, smarter rival, Hedda

probably spends her spare time eating children.

Then a snippet of an interview with Louella:

More shots of Welles just after his arrival in Hollywood, blissfully

touring the RKO facilities as:

Welles after his RKO tour, smiling mischievously, stands before a

microphone:

"The End" and newsreel credits

The newsreel sputters to a stop in a screening room. A shaft of light

shines on a large MGM logo on one wall. Another shaft of light

illuminates the sitting figure of LOUIS B. MAYER.

Mayer is a short, crafty, bespectacled man in his 50's. His cloying,

avuncular exterior only fleetingly disguises the film titan's

outrageous barbarism.

Another shadowy figure, a Mayer FLUNKIE, can be just glimpsed sitting

elsewhere in the screening room.

Mayer glowers at the darkened screen for a moment.

A beat.

Meantime, shelve the newsreel. No one cares

INT SAN SIMEON. WELLES' SUITE EVENING

Orson Welles, elegant and impressive, is flourishing a cigarette and a

coin in his magnificently expressive hands He is perfecting a magic

trick.

Welles is lounging on the bed of an enormous guest suite at San Simeon.

He is wearing a tuxedo.

In the bathroom beyond him we can see the writer HERMAN MANKIEWICZ

("MANK". )

Mank is a wonderful wreck of a human being. 43 years old, but looking

considerably older, he is short and squat and bitter. A compulsive

gambler and drinker, Mank still glimmers with wry humor that is equally

wicked and corrosive. He is incomplete without the stub of a cigar

clenched in his teeth.

Mank, also dressed in a tuxedo, is looking at himself in the bathroom

mirror as he struggles with his bow tie. He occasionally glances in the

mirror to Welles.

Title: JANUARY 3, 1940

Welles dramatically taps the cigarette on the coin, practicing his

trick as:

Welles quickly makes the cigarette seem to completely pass through the

coin. An astounding bit of slight of hand.

Welles laughs and goes to Mank in the bathroom.

Welles ties Mank's bow tie for him as:

Mank takes a quick swig from a flask of vodka, shoves it into his coat

and scurries into the other room as Welles checks himself in the

mirror.

A beat. Welles smiles, confident and resplendent

INT SAN SIMEON. HALLWAY FOLLOWING

Welles and Mank walk through an impressive upstairs hallway of San

Simeon. Quick glimpses of the astounding grandeur everywhere around

them as:

They disappear down a long stairway

INT SAN SIMEON. DINING HALL EVENING

An explosion of color and an immediate swirl of sound

We are in the Grand Refectory -- the mammoth dining room -- at San

Simeon. Five long tables are placed end to end. There are about fifty

sumptuously dressed guests.

WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST and MARION DAVIES preside, side by side,

center table.

Hearst is 76 years old. He is a fully commanding figure, towering in

both height (six foot two) and personality. He is shaped rather like a

pear and moves with a delicacy surprising for such a famously merciless

man. Although the word ruthless does not begin to do justice to the

press baron's animus, Hearst is endlessly polite and almost painfully

soft-spoken.

Marion is 43 years old, a shimmering and lively presence. In a word

that might have been coined for her, she has moxie. While the ravages

of alcoholism have left their subtle marks on the edges and attitudes

of her face, she can still charm and captivate with almost effortless

grace.

Around Hearst's feet sit a collection of his beloved dachshunds.

On the other side of the main table, and down a bit, sit Welles and

Mank.

We sweep around the table, hearing bits of overlapping dialogue and

finally settle on Marion and Hearst.

Marion is charming CAROLE LOMBARD and CLARK GABLE, who sit beside

She tenderly rests one hand on Hearst's arm as she speaks. Marion

speaks with an occasionally pronounced stutter.

Laughter

Laughter, even from Hearst

Meanwhile, across the table Welles is rapaciously devouring his dinner

as:

Mank surreptitiously pours a huge shot of vodka from his flask into his

glass as:

Welles smiles across the table.

Laughter.

Laughter. As Welles speaks the whole table gradually stops eating and

listens to his tale:

Applause and laughter from around the table. Then:

Some nervous titters. A beat as Welles' smile fades and he stares at

Hearst.

Silence

Mank gives Welles a desperate warning look to keep quiet Welles cannot

resist speaking:

A beat as Hearst rivets Welles with a cold, bland stare Deafening

silence around the table.

Then:

A beat.

A beat. Hearst smiles

A tense beat. Marion quickly diffuses the situation;

Laughter. Even from Hearst. Then the dinner chatter continues.

Welles cannot keep his eyes off Hearst, the press baron draws Welles in

like a siren.

Marion gives Hearst a little kiss and grabs Carole Lombard and they

leave the table. Hearst leans into Clark Gable to continue talking.

Welles sits back and reaches for a cigar. Mank takes his arm and

indicates he should stop, nodding his head in Hearst's direction.

Mank sneaks another shot from his flask

Welles studies Hearst across the table.

Hearst leans down and feeds his favorite pet dachshund, Helen, table

scraps. He talks to her gently.

INT SAN SIMEON. LADIES LOUNGE FOLLOWING

Marion and Carole Lombard escape into an ornate ladies bathroom.

Marion immediately goes to a cabinet and retrieves a bottle of Scotch

hidden under some towels. She takes a swig and then hands the bottle to

Carole Lombard. She drinks.

Marion lights a cigarette.

Marion hands the cigarette to Carole Lombard A beat.

A beat.

A beat. Carole Lombard hands the cigarette back to Marion

A beat. Carole Lombard does not respond.

INT SAN SIMEON. BALLROOM FOLLOWING

In the cavernous ballroom, a dance band is playing "I'LL BE SEEING

YOU."

The guests mingle and dance

Welles and Mank wander as Welles takes in the impressive surroundings.

Carole Lombard and Marion return, rather giggly

She goes off in search of Hearst.

She pulls Welles to the dance floor Mank wanders away and takes another

swig from his flask.

As Welles and Carole Lombard dance, Welles keeps an eye on Hearst and

Marion who are dancing nearby.

She stops and looks at him firmly

Nearby Marion pulls away from Hearst sharply, drawing Welles'

attention. He overhears:

She storms off. Welles and Carole Lombard watch her go

Welles watches as Hearst stands alone on the dance floor We hear the

sound of a lion roaring in the distance

INT SAN SIMEON. WELLES' SUITE NIGHT

Welles, again dressed in a tuxedo, lies on his bed

Through the open balcony doors he can hear the eerie sound of lions

roaring and elephants trumpeting in the night.

He stand and wanders to the balcony. Below him he can see bits and

pieces of Hearst's private zoo in the moonlight: a lion pacing

relentlessly back and forth; an alligator slipping into the water; a

monkey slamming into the bars of its cage.

The disquieting sounds of the menagerie float through the midnight air.

Welles leaves his suite

INT SAN SIMEON. HALLWAYS FOLLOWING

Welles roams the seemingly endless hallways of San Simeon. In the half-

light they begin to resemble his own cinematic dream-palace, Xanadu.

He hears the ghostly echo of a song, "WHERE OR WHEN".

He curiously follows the sound, taking in the fabulous castle

everywhere around him.

He passes by the door to the Assembly Room. Inside, shafts of light

illuminate portions of huge, uncompleted jigsaw puzzles.

INT SAN SIMEON. BALLROOM FOLLOWING

"WHERE OR WHEN" is now clear.

Welles stands in the shadows of a balcony overlooking the great

ballroom.

Below him a phonograph record spins lazily on a turntable standing of

the floor of the deserted ballroom.

And Hearst and Marion are enjoying a quiet dance together, her head

nestled on his shoulder.

Welles stares and stares at them And slowly smiles. We linger on Hearst

and Marion as they dance

EXT WELLES' HOUSE. POOL DAY

Welles, wrapped in a bathrobe, is pacing quickly around the perimeter

of his backyard pool. He is puffing on a cigar and grunting to himself

as he scribbles down notes.

Mank, wearing sunglasses and a battered fedora and looking decidedly

hung-over, comes from the house to the pool.

Welles roars up to him:

Welles takes Mank's fedora and flings it away.

Mank takes a glass from a tray of orange juice and pours vodka from a

flask into his juice as:

A beat as Welles stands in triumph before Mank.

Welles quickly sits in a deck chair next to Mank as:

Beat

A beat. Mank slowly removes his sunglasses and leans forward, dead

serious.

A beat.

Mank leaps to his feet

Welles blocks Mank's way. Mank retreats. Welles pursues him around the

pool as:

Mank spins on him:

Welles shoves Mank violently. Mank goes sailing into the pool.

Mank splashes to the surface and stands for a shocked moment and then

wades to the edge of the pool. Miraculously, and like the true drinker

he is, Mank is still holding his glass of juice and vodka, now

supplemented with pool water.

Welles stands above him, blocking his exit from the pool. From this low

angle Welles suddenly looks startlingly Kane- like.

A pause

I am giving you the last chance you will ever have to be yourself

again!

A tense pause

Welles kneels by the edge of the pool, effortlessly switching gears.

I know this is the story. And now is the time. And I cannot do it

without you. Everything in my life -- all the promise and potential and

dreams -- have led to this moment right now. To you and me. Right here.

A pause. Welles gazes at Mank, imploring

A long beat Welles leans close to him.

Silence as Welles offers his hand to Mank.

Mank takes a sip from his glass of juice, vodka and pool water.

INT WELLES' LIVING ROOM DAY

Mank is slowly sharpening a series of pencils with a pocket knife,

blank pads waiting. Welles is standing across the room from him.

Mank finishes sharpening his last pencil and picks up a pad He smiles

to Welles

And we leap into MONTAGE -- WELLES AND MANK BRAINSTORM

A rush of jazzy. Gene Krupa percussion as Welles and Mank develop their

story.

We see images of feverish creativity. Welles raging, pleading, arguing,

pushing. Mank responding, laughing, drinking, writing.

It is a passionate dance of creation Welles' tennis court Mank and

Welles are on the tennis court, but hard at work.

Mank waits for Welles to serve. Welles bounces the tennis ball, but is

too preoccupied to serve as:

A beat, Welles deep in thought. Mank watches Welles closely.

Welles does not answer. He continues to bounce the tennis ball, deep in

thought.

A beat

Mank watches as Welles lets the tennis ball drop. It bounces and rolls

-- for a fleeting moment in Welles' mind  it seems to become the rolling

snow globe from KANE -- we hear the sound of sleigh bells and a child's

happy voice -- in the snow globe we seem to see a boy laughing and

pelting his father with snowballs. . .

Then more images, mad and outlandish and sedate and solemn; in the

kitchen, in a car, around the pool, in a bar.

Welles and Mank act out scenes and argue. They leap from character to

character fearlessly. Emoting and laughing and writing. We see the twin

joy and terror of walking the tightrope, of sheer creation.

We see them having a ferocious argument. They scream back and forth

angrily and then Mank storms out and slams the door. Welles stands

alone in his living room, he catches a glimpse of his own reflection in

a mirror and we hear:

Welles' living room: Welles is slowly advancing on Mank.

Mank sits, watching Welles approach. The living room is now filthy.

Papers and sketches and gin bottles are discarded everywhere around

them, a thick cloud of cigar smoke. It is very late at night and the

room is in semi-darkness.

Welles is now standing over Mank, a dark figure in silhouette. Mank

soaks in this somewhat ominous image.

More music and images: eating and working; swimming and working;

playing and working simultaneously.

Then: Beach:

Sunset. We see them walking along a deserted beach Welles is walking in

the surf, his trousers rolled.

31

Welles stops and looks up. A thousand stars twinkle above him. They are

reflected in his eyes.

A long pause as he does not answer Mank Then

Welles turns to him. You're sure?

Yeah. Mank gazes at Welles.

I know him The clatter of an old typewriter is heard. EXT/INT +

BUNGALOW. VICTORVILLE DAY

Victorville is a rural desert community in San Bernadino County about

90 miles from LA.

Mank and John Houseman are ensconced in a bungalow at Campbell's Guest

Ranch, writing the movie.

Mank, smoking a cigar, paces around the cacti and shrubs in the

backyard reciting to their secretary. She pounds away on a typewriter

as he orates. A huge stack of papers lies neatly by her typewriter.

This is clearly the longest screenplay in the history of the world.

We float into the house as we continue to hear Mank's recitation...

Inside, John Houseman is busy rifling through Mank's room as he

listens:

Houseman uncovers a bottle of vodka hidden under Mank's bed He pours

the bottle down a bathroom drain as he calls out the window:

Outside, Mank snarls and then revises:

Houseman emerges from the house.

He tears open the telegram and reads:

Beat.

We fade to a beautiful drawing of a dark, cavernous room. Perhaps it is

a perfect matte painting from KANE. Real or illusion? The image turns

into...

INT  SOUND STAGE, RKO LOT  DAY

Welles is standing in the middle of an enormous sound stage, empty but

for a table with some elaborate set models. He is;' slowly walking

around the models, studying them, imagining' his movie.

The sound stage door opens and a man enters, carrying a small black

bag. He is cinematographer GREGG TOLAND.

Toland is a quiet, efficient and slim man of 36. He is brilliant and

fearless.

Toland walks to Welles and, without a word, pulls an Oscar statue out

of the bag and sets it down in the middle of one of the set models. He

looks up at Welles as we hear:

INT THE BROWN DERBY DAY\NIGHT

The chic Brown Derby restaurant is the unquestioned palace of Hollywood

celebrities. The smug big-wigs and desperate hangers-on circulate and

score points in the Great Game of Movie Gossip.

In one corner booth sits Hedda Hopper, phoning in the latest salacious

gossip to her newspaper. In the other corner booth Louella Parsons does

the same. They occasionally glance back and forth at each other like

ravenous hyenas eyeing the last bit of carrion.

Welles circulates between them. In a scene reminiscent of the famous

CITIZEN KANE breakfast table scene with Kane and Emily, we shoot back

and forth as Welles applies his considerable charm to both women.

Welles is dressed differently with each of them; breakfast with Hedda

and dinner with Louella.

With Hedda, morning:

With Louella, night

Louella screeches

With Hedda, morning:

With Louella, night:

He takes out a coin and begins a magic trick

With Hedda, morning:

He makes the quarter 'completely disappear. Hedda is charmed

He makes the quarter appear again and shows the guts of the trick.

With Louella, night

With Hedda, morning:

Welles sighs. With Louella, night:

He leans forward to light her cigarette as:

EXT.

INT BUNGALOW. VICTORVILLE DAY

Mank and Houseman watch nervously as Welles reads the last page of

their massive screenplay.

The script, almost half a foot high, is piled on a table next to

Welles.

He sets down the last page and looks at Mank. A beat

He leaps up and embraces Mank

Houseman glances at Welles, surprised, but dutifully scampers inside.

Mank laughs

Houseman returns with a tray of drinks. Welles hands glasses all around

as:

Mank is stunned Welles smiles and drinks.

INT CAR. DESERT ROADS DAY

Welles sits in the back of his limo as his chauffeur speeds him back to

Los Angeles.

He goes through the script with a fervent intensity. He crosses out

huge sections and tosses away entire pages. The' floor around his feet

is littered with discarded pages.

Mank sits drinking heavily as the sun sets in the distance Houseman is

busy packing in the house behind him.

Houseman notices Mank and goes to him They stare at the crimson of the

setting sun for a moment

We focus on Mank's glowering face. But the background is somehow

different. We are at...

INT MANK'S CAR NIGHT

Late at night. Mank is sitting in his car, drinking from his flask and

listening to period jazz music from the car radio. He is parked outside

Welles' house, waiting and seething and very drunk.

He sees Welles pulling into his driveway and climbing out of his car.

Mank takes a final swig and then bolts after him, carrying a script. .

.

EXT WELLES ' HOUSE FOLLOWING

Mank roars unsteadily up to Welles:

Mank flings the script in Welles' face. Welles recoils

Mank snatches up the script and thrusts it in Welles' face

Welles bats the script away:

Mank pushes the title page of the script toward Welles as

Welles spins on him:

He goes into his house and slams the door.

Mank leans against the door in stunned exhaustion. Then he slides down

the door and sits leaning against it.

Inside the darkened House, Welles is leaning against the front door.

Silent.

INT ,, SAM SIMEON. ASSEMBLY RQOM NIGHT

The Assembly room is Hearst's private sanctum high in a tower at San

Simeon.

Marion is valiantly trying to piece together a huge jigsaw puzzle.

Hearst enters and goes to her. He puts his hand gently on her shoulder.

Marion stops working at the puzzle. She does not look up. Beat

A pause. Then:

Marion slowly reaches out for the puzzle and delicately place a piece

in the proper position.

A long, difficult pause

Marion slowly stands and walks to a liquor cabinet and pours a stiff

drink.

Hearst watches sadly, but doesn't say a word

INT SCHAEFER'S OFFICE. RKO LOT DAY

Welles paces before Schaefer's massive desk with typical combustible

energy. Behind the desk, huge picture windows show the bustling

activities of the RKO lot.

Welles muses

A beat

A long pause as Welles leans against a wall, his head down He does not

look at Schaefer as:

A beat. Welles finally looks up at Schaefer

And I honestly can't think of a reason in the world why you should let

me do KANE other than that you should.

A long pause as Schaefer studies Welles. Then

Welles drops his head, too moved to speak.

Then he nods to Schaefer and begins to leave.

Welles glances at him.

He sweeps out. Schaefer smiles and shakes his head.

EXT SOUND STAGE. RKO LOT DAWN

The sun is just rising on the RKO lot. We note a sign on the wall by

the sound stage door:

CITIZEN KANE. RKO PRODUCTION #281. DIRECTOR: ORSON WELLES

ADMITTANCE.

INT RKO SOUND STAGE FOLLOWING

Absolute silence.

Welles stands in the mammoth sound stage and looks around, it is as if

he has entered a great cathedral. A few lights illuminate portions of

the stage and giant lighting rigs and scaffolding soar to the unseen

ceiling miles away.

The Xanadu Great Hall set awaits.

Welles slowly walks to the set and stands, surveying his domain,

savoring the moment.

Title: JULY 30, 1940

He clears his throat and speaks, rehearsing his first day speech to the

cast and crew. His voice echoes.

He stops, surprised by the echo.

No . . We are going to shatter every rule in

Today we are going to shatter the hallowed busts of Griffith and

DeMille and Ford. We are going to show the world a new way of seeing.

Together we will blaze a trail...

As Welles continues to rehearse we slowly ascend the scaffolding and

lighting rigs...

We continue to ascend and finally discover two electricians on the

upper catwalk, staring down in amusement, much like the two stagehands

at the opera in KANE.

Again to Welles on the stage floor: A beat. Welles slowly smiles.

Above, one of the electrician's throws the switch on a huge spotlight.

Welles is captured in the vibrant white light and Benny Goodman's

immortal "SING, SING, SING" immediately explodes and we are into:

THE MAKING OF CITIZEN KANE

A camera crane sweeps dramatically to the ceiling of the sound stage

and brilliant white lights flash on.

A film clapper snaps: CITIZEN KANE. RKO PRODUCTION 281 DIRECTOR:

WELLES.

And we see Welles racing heroically into making his first movie:

In varying KANE makeups he tears through scenes and actors: laughing

with AGNES MOOREHEAD on the cabin set; charming RUTH WARRICK on

breakfast table set; berating DOROTHY COMMINGORE on the Great Hall

set...

He speeds back and forth and back and forth from the set to the camera

in the Campaign Headquarters set, never happy with the shot. . .

Gregg Toland watches, bemused, as Welles shifts tiny prop pieces on the

set. . .

Welles bullies and screams and pleads and seduces. Like an obsessed

artistic tornado he is seemingly everywhere at once. We see him

rejecting matte paintings and in makeup and rewriting the script and

trying on costumes and selecting props and leaping into odd positions

looking for the perfect camera angle.

It is very important in this sequence that we see the pressure building

... building ... building ... on Welles.

"SING, SING, SING" continues On the Xanadu stairway set Welles behind

the camera, filming actor Paul Stewart

A film clapper: take 58

A film clapper: take 59

"SING. SING, SING" continues...

in a corner of the sound stage:

Welles, in full Kane makeup, studies a miniature model of the Kane

Campaign Headquarters set through a tiny periscope with cinematographer

Gregg Toland.

SING, SING, SING" continues Back on the Xanadu stairway set: Poor Paul

Stewart, now at his wit's ends, continues:

The film clapper: take 112.

Paul Stewart screams and collapses. "SING, SING, SING" continues... On

the Atlantic City nightclub set:

Welles watches as the camera crane attempts the dizzying and difficult

maneuver from the skylight at the top of the set

down to Dorothy Commingore as Susan Alexander below. The camera crane

goes out of control and crashes through some light fixtures and swings

crazily down toward Dorothy Commingore. She yelps and leaps away as the

camera barrels through the table and smashes to the floor.

Welles stands next to Toland. A beat.

"SING, SING, SING" continues. Back on the, Xanadu stairway set

Paul Stewart, dazed and shattered, is listening intently. Welles stands

with his arms around Stewart, embracing him, whispering into his ear.

Stewart nods. The film clapper: take 178.

The cameraman leans into the viewfinder. We see his black- and-white

view of the shot through the lens then:

In a cramped editing room we see Welles watching the scene on an old

editing moviola.

On the moviola we see Paul Stewart taking a deep breath and then,

magnificently:

On the moviola we see Stewart laugh hysterically and dance away.

In the editing room, Welles shakes his head

"SING, SING, SING" continues. On the Campaign Headquarters set:

Welles and Toland lie on the floor of the Campaign Headquarters set and

gaze up through viewfinders. They squirm about on the floor and laugh

to one another about their newest outlandish idea.

Then Toland notices something in the catwalks high above the set. A

redheaded ELECTRICIAN.

on GRAPES OF WRATH. He's a free- lance studio spy. Probably reports

right back to the RKO boys in New York.

Welles slowly stands and THUNDERS:

All the flurried activity on the sound stage immediately stops.

Every eye turns, terrified, to Welles. Welles glares up at the

redheaded electrician

The electrician slowly climbs down from the rafters. Welles rivets him

every step of the way.

The electrician stops before Welles.

A tense beat and then Welles fiercely and purposefully spits in the

electrician's face.

The electrician recoils, stunned.

Welles returns to Toland as the electrician slinks off "SING, SING,

SING" continues as:

We see the magnificent film emerging. Welles watching scenes in a

screening room, his feet up, exhausted, almost asleep, a cigar dangling

from his lips...

We see rushes of Welles going through scenes with Dorothy Commingore as

Susan Alexander. He is relentless with her off camera, driving her to

the harridan outbursts he wants just before he steps into the shot...

We see the crew observing, with great amusement, Welles' stumbling

attempts to learn the "Charlie Kane" dance...

We see Toland shifting lights to achieve deep-focus cross-fades. Welles

rages as the difficult process eats up time...

We see Welles growing increasingly manic. The long hours and the

pressure are clearly taking a toll..

We return to the screening room. Welles is now fully asleep. His cigar

falls from his mouth and begins smoldering on his suit.

"SING, SING, SING" fades at... On a Xanadu set:

Filming a scene. Welles, in old-Kane makeup, is sitting with Dorothy

Commingore as Susan Alexander. He is curiously distracted. She is

pouring tea in the scene:

Welles does not respond. He breaks character

Toland stands behind the camera and watches Welles. There is obviously

something wrong.

Welles pops into character and pours the tea in the scene as:

Welles stops, breaks character again:

He clears his throat and glances at the enormous crew, all staring back

at him expectantly.

They start the scene again. She pours the tea

A pause as she waits for his reply in the scene He sits, frozen.

He slowly walks off the set as he nervously pulls at his tie, tearing

it off.

Toland watches him go.

INT BROWN DERBY DAY

Louella is at her usual corner booth, on the phone to one of her many

spies. She is devouring a Cobb salad as she hears:'

Louella instantly stops eating

She hangs up, intrigued.

INT WELLES' HOUSE

Welles is standing, absolutely lost, in the middle of his living room.

He is still in his old-Kane makeup which is just beginning to peel off

his face.

We hear a low, insistent drum beat, a Gene Krupa riff.

We hear the sound of an ice pick chipping into a block of ice. Welles

glances around. We are no longer in Welles' living room but at. . .

INT MANK'S HOUSE. SANTA MONICA DAY

A turntable spins in a corner, playing a Gene Krupa record. Ashtrays

overflow with cigar butts and messy piles of pages are littered around

a typewriter.

Mank's beach house is tiny and on the edge of squalid

Welles, still in his peeling old-Kane makeup, is standing in the middle

of the living room and Mank is in the small kitchenette, chipping ice

for drinks.

A long pause

Mank returns to the living room and thrusts a drink in Welles hand.

Welles hands Mank a folded script from his jacket. Mank looks at it as:

Sure enough, the title page of the script reads: CITIZEN KANE by Herman

J. Mankiewicz and Orson Welles.

Mank hands it back

Welles sits.

A beat. Welles proceeds quietly and with difficulty.

So I cut him dead. I turned my back and I walked away because I didn't

need him. He was getting in the way of my "genius." And he would write

me letters, and I never answered them, and he would call me, and I

never took his calls, and he showed up at school and I wouldn't see

him.

Tears are beginning to inch down Welles' face

Welles looks up at Mank, tears now streaming down his face.

A long beat. Mank, despite himself, is moved.

To cover his emotion Mank rises and goes into the kitchen to freshen

his drink. We remain tight on Welles as we hear Mank's voice:

A beat

A beat. Welles reaches for a cigar, tears still wet on his face.

No

Welles quickly bites off the end of his cigar -- his expression one of

"Gotcha!" -- even as. his cheeks are still wet with tears.

Welles slowly smiles as the record of Gene Krupa's percussion segues

into the unmistakable rhythms of "SING, SING, SING" and eclipses Mank's

voice...

And we see Welles everywhere, more energized than ever: perilous on a

high crane; stuck in a cramped corner behind the camera; doing magic

tricks for the cast; sleeping as makeup is applied to his face...

Mank is always at Welles' side: supporting; challenging; amusing;

inspiring. . .

We see Welles strutting, raging, boasting, dancing. And again towering.

"SING, SING, SING" finally ends at..

Through the black-and-white viewfinder we see Welles, in full costume

and makeup, carefully walking across the massive Kane Campaign

Headquarters set toward us. We see the low angle black-and-white

camera's perspective.

JOSEPH COTTON, also in full costume and makeup, steps into the shot and

takes Welles' position as Welles scurries out of the frame. . ..

INT SOUND STAGE. RKO NIGHT. FOLLOWING

Welles marches across the set and squirms into position at the camera,

which is right on the floor, and peers up through the viewfinder.

Toland lies next to him. Mank stands to one side and- watches.

Welles thinks for a moment and then bolts up. Toland watches,

mystified, as Welles races to a sound stage fire station and grabs a

fire axe. Welles storms back to the set and raises the axe high. Toland

quickly rolls away. And Welles slams the axe into the wooden floor of

the set. He continues to hack at the floor.

Welles and Toland and various grips hack at the floor

Mank watches, bemused, and checks his watch

Welles and Toland finally tear away the remnants of the wooden floor.

They stare down, defeated. Under the wood is solid concrete.

Welles and Toland stand and stare at the concrete

Welles does not answer. He continues to eye the concrete Then:

We see a grip pounding away at the concrete with a jackhammer as

Welles, always in motion, sweeps past Mank and Joseph Cotton.

Welles slams to a halt in front of the unit physician and thrusts out

an arm. The physician injects him with a dose of B-12.

Welles can barely wait for the injection before he speeds off.

Welles supervises as Toland lowers the camera into the freshly dug hole

in the middle of the sound stage. Mank checks his watch, 3:30 AM.

Welles leaps into the trench to check the camera setup.

Again we see the view through the black-and-white viewfinder. Joseph

Cotton stands at a distance, at the far wall of the set.

We see Cotton approaching. He finally stops inches away from the

camera. His shoes and the far wall of the set are both in total focus.

It is a breathtaking, vertiginous shot.

Then we see Welles and Joseph Cotton rehearsing and rehearsing and

filming and filming the scene. Endlessly

Finally we seem to be seeing the scene from the movie

We continue to watch the scene through the viewfinder:

He shoves Joseph Cotton brutally

Welles shoves him again.

Welles/Kane drinks. A long pause.

We jump out of the black-and-white viewfinder and into the scene as

Welles turns to an assistant.

The crew members exhale and practically collapse

Welles stands and looks around in satisfaction. He takes in the empty

corners of the sound stage, the sets, the cameras Savoring the moment.

He walks to the massive doors of the sound stage and pulls them open.

Sunlight floods in.

Outside it is a blazing morning and the dazzling sunlight silhouettes

Welles.

Welles squints and steps into the glorious sunlight. Mank and Toland

follow. They stand and watch as RKO extras and crews bustle about on

their way to work. The assistant brings a tray of martinis.

They each take a glass. The RKO workers stare at them oddly as they

pass.

Welles toasts them.

He grabs a passing extra and dances with her as Mank and Toland laugh.

EXT HEDDA'S MANSION. PATIO MORNING

Hedda Hopper reclines on her patio. An extremely ugly pug dog sits in

her lap. She has green goo all over her face and a cigarette dangling

from her lips.

Title: THREE MONTHS LATER. JANUARY 3, 1941

She is going through the trades. She stops at a particular item. She

studies it and then reaches for the phone and dials.

She hangs up. Her hideous dog leaps on her and starts licking her face

goo.

INT OUTSIDE AN RKO SCREENING ROOM NIGHT

Welles paces nervously outside the doors to the screening room.

Schaefer stands leaning against a wall.

From inside we can hear some of the final dialogue from CITIZEN KANE.

Silence from inside the screening room. The movie is over. An agonizing

silent pause

Then the doors swing open and the guests stream out. Totally neutral

expressions.

The bejeweled Valkyrie, Hedda herself, finally emerges. She stops

before Welles.

A beat.

She reaches up and pinches his cheek, a bit too hard. And then she

slaps his cheek, a bit too hard.

And then she goes

EXT HEDDA' S MANSION. PATIO MORNING

Hedda paces and smokes as she waits on the phone. Finally, she is

connected:

She hangs up

INT SCHAEFER'S OFFICE      DAY

Schaefer sits at his desk, going through some budget sheets. His

intercom buzzes, he presses a button:

He releases his intercom button

He bolts up and races to the liquor cabinet as Louella sweeps in like

the Lusitania in fur.

Beat

Beat

She sweeps out

INT RKO SCREENING ROOM DAY

Louella watches CITIZEN KANE

We watch her enormous face, grim and glowering, bathed in flickering

blue light as we hear a bit of the dialogue:

With that, Louella bolts up and stomps out of the screening^ room... '

INT OUTSIDE THE SCREENING ROOM FOLLOWING

Welles and Schaefer are again nervously waiting in the hallway.

Louella slams out the door and almost crashes into Welles A beat as she

glares at him. If looks could kill She storms off

Welles and Schaefer are too stunned even to speak as we hear:

INT SAN SIMEON. ASSEMBLY ROOM DAY

Hearst sits with one of his dachshunds on his lap Louella sits across

from him.

Hearst does not move a muscle in the entire scene.

A beat

Louella nods.

A beat.

A beat

A pause

A young man has made a motion picture detailing my life. This motion

picture was made at a not insignificant studio. And you knew nothing

about it.

A beat.

She nods and leaves the room We linger on Hearst, his expression dark

and dangerous.

INT SCHAEFER'S OFFICE EVENING

Welles reclines on a sofa, smoking a cigar, orating, while Schaefer

sits at his desk absently flipping through the evening edition of the

LA EXAMINER.

He is distracted by Schaefer flipping through the newspaper anxiously.

Schaefer tears back and forth in the paper and then swivels around in

his chair to grab another newspaper. He flips through it. And then

stops.

Welles leaps up and goes to Schaefer's desk.

Schaefer has placed the two newspapers side by side on his desk.

He points to one

He points to the other

Indeed, the morning edition contains a large ad for the RKO movie KITTY

FOYLE. In the evening edition the ad has been replaced by innocuous

copy.

He flips through the evening edition and then looks up at Welles.

INT MAYER'S OFFICE DAY

Louis B. Mayer sits at his massive desk, taking notes Hearst sweeps in.

Mayer is surprised.

No -- no -- sit down, please

I only wish I could. You know, business

A beat.

A beat.

He gazes at Mayer. Mayer looks at him, disquieted

A pause.

A beat

A tense pause

Hearst stands.

He smiles and goes. Mayer sits, shaken

INT BROWN DERBY NIGHT

Schaefer sits with Louella in her corner booth

INT   SAN SIMEON. ASSEMBLY ROOM   DAY

Hearst stands with his arms behind his back, very Kane-like, and

surveys a collection of about 30 newspapers spread around the floor at

his feet. His newspapers.

Marion sits in a corner, doing needlepoint. Hearst picks up one of his

papers

She holds up her needlepoint

It is a sampler reading: BLESS THIS CASTLE He laughs

JOE WILLICOMBE, Hearst's private secretary, enters quietly. Willicombe

is a serious and sensitive man in his 60's. He is unquestioningly loyal

to the old man.

A moment. Hearst looks at him. Willicombe shakes his head sadly.

Willicombe glides out

A long pause as Hearst moves to a window and stares down at his domain.

Marion watches him.

A beat

A -beat

She is absolutely stunned. A pause

A pause

Hearst continues to gaze out the window. Marion goes to him and holds

him tenderly. ;

They look down at the massive San Simeon estate spreading out like

Wonderland below them.

INT

INT RECORDING STAGE NIGHT

KANE composer BERNARD HERMANN stands before an orchestra, going over

some of the music for KANE. He tries various measures and makes

adjustments. A movie screen is ready to run sections of the film.

Welles sits at the back of the room, talking quietly to Gregg Toland.

Welles is bewitching, spinning a web:

Bernard Hermann turns back to Welles and Toland

Mank joins them, carrying a newspaper.

He leads Toland and Mank out of the stage and into the sound proof

recording booth...

INT.  SOUND BOOTH

A few sound engineers and mixers work over recording panels and watch

Hermann and the orchestra as Welles, Toland and Mank enter.

Welles shudders

beat

Welles' smile fades.

One of the sound technicians turns to Welles:

Welles, Mank and Toland quickly decamp to a hallway outside the

recording stage...

INT HALLWAY FOLLOWING

They emerge into the hallway. Mank lights a cigar.

A beat as Mank gazes at Welles.

A beat

Welles leans forward in a sudden explosion of anger

Bernard Hermann appears at a doorway from the recording stage.

Welles goes with Hermann into the stage. Toland and Mank stand in

silence. Then:

76 INT RECORDING STAGE FOLLOWING

Welles sits at the back of the stage, deep in thought

Bernard Hermann raises his baton and prepares to conduct. The opening

shots of KANE -- fog shrouded Xanadu -- are projected on the screen.

Hermann conducts and the orchestra plays.

We watch the first images of the film with the brilliant music.

We pull back to reveal we are at

INT SAN SIMEON. SCREENING ROOM NIGHT

Hearst and Marion are sitting in the plush San Simeon screening room,

surrounded by a passel of dachshunds. Five or six friends are also

spread around the room. Joe Willicombe is also present.

We watch their faces as they watch CITIZEN KANE

During this sequence we hear bits and pieces of KANE as we watch Hearst

and Marion react.

We see Marion's initial amusement give way to a forced neutrality.

We see Hearst becoming increasingly uncomfortable, reacting physically,

almost writhing, as his soul is laid bare. Then his face grows cold.

Drained.

We see Joe Willicombe, offended.

We see the other guests, horrified and afraid to even so much as glance

at Hearst.

Finally, we hear the ending of the movie:

We hear Bernard Hermann's closing music begin to play out

Hearst abruptly stands, the final images of the film washing over his

face.

The film suddenly stops and lights come up around the screening room.

Silence No one looks at Hearst.

The guests and Joe Willicombe solemnly file out A pause

She stands and goes quickly to pour a drink. A forced laugh

A beat.

I know what I could have been. I know what I gave up to stay with you.

She dissolves into sobs. He cradles her in the empty screening room

A beat

INT SAN SIMEON. ASSEMBLY ROOM NIGHT

Hearst is as we have never seen him before. He is in a titanic rage.

He paces back and forth violently like a caged animal, becoming

increasingly manic and uncontrolled, clenching his fists and barking to

Joe Willicombe:

He smashes a collection of figurines and sends them sailing across the

room. Hearst's rage gives way to a darker passion:

we're--

Willicombe picks up a phone and begins dialing as Hearst continues:

Hearst snatches the phone from Willicombe

He slams down the phone

Willicombe begins to dial

INT MAYER'S OFFICE. MGM DAY

Louis B. Mayor's eyes are blinking behind his glasses

In his glasses we can see vague reflections of a series of grainy

photographs showing sex acts and illicit assignations and corpses and

mug shots.

We pull back to reveal Mayer flipping through a stack of photos and

notes.

Louella sits, smoking and supremely confident, across from him.

Mayer finally closes the file and removes his glasses. He rubs his

eyes. He rises unsteadily and goes to a liquor cabinet and pours

himself a stiff drink. He gulps it down and then returns to his desk.

A pause and then he finally looks at Louella

A beat

A beat

A beat.

A pause

A beat

J. EDGAR HOOVER'S OFFICE

DAY

Bulldog-like FBI Director HOOVER sits erect at his desk. Behind him an

imposing FBI Seal catches the light.

He presses a button on his intercom.

His secretary, clean-cut FBI agent McCABE, enters quickly with a note

pad. Agent McCabe scribbles as Hoover dictates:

EXT.

HILLS AROUND SAN SIMEON     DAY

Marion and Joe Willicombe sit in deck chairs under the blazing sun.

Marion absently pets a dachshund in her lap. Servants stand behind them

with lunch and trays of iced tea

They watch Hearst riding a horse in the distance A pause. Then:

A beat.

Hearst gallops up to them. A servant helps him down from his horse. He

strides briskly to Marion and Willicombe as:

Marion glances to Willicombe and then looks at Hearst with great

tenderness.

INT MANK'S HOUSE. SANTA MONICA DAY

Manks pounding away at a typewriter in his tiny beach house.

He grumbles to himself as he types:

A knock at the door. Mank answers it. Clean-cut FBI Agent McCabe stands

outside. He flashes his badge.

Agent McCabe sits and snaps open a note pad

Agent McCabe snaps his note pad closed and stands.

Agent McCabe leaves

Mank slams the door

He stands for a moment, pale, and then goes to the kitchen and pours

himself a stiff drink.

INT SAN SIMEON, ASSEMBLY ROOM DAY

Marion is pouring a drink as well. She quickly fills a glass of Scotch

and then begins striding back and forth across the Assembly Room.

Hearst sits quietly at one of the jigsaw puzzles He occasionally and

absently puts a piece in place.

She has clearly been at him for some time

Marion spins to a medieval arras cloth hanging from one wall.

He stands quickly

A cold beat

A pause.

He leaves

INT SAN SIMEOM. MARION'S BEDROOM DAY

A silent scene as we see Marion rummaging through some drawers in her

vanity table.

A suitcase can be seen on the bed behind her.

She removes various jewelry cases and pours an astounding array of gems

into a black leather pouch.

INT.  ELIZABETH ARDEN SALON. BEVERLY HILLS DAY

Marion sits with Carole Lombard in a secluded section of the luxurious

salon.

A quiet scene.

A beat.

Carole Lombard smiles.

This little girl comes from nowhere and gets discovered by this guy.

And maybe she has some real talent way deep down. But he pays the bills

and he makes the decisions. And somewhere along the way ... she gets

lost.

JEWELRY STORE. BEVERLY HILLS

Marion enters a posh Beverly Hills jewelry shop. She is wearing

sunglasses.

She nervously goes to the counter and the SHOP OWNER glides to her. For

Marion, the entire experience is humiliating. This results in her

stutter becoming increasingly more pronounced.

Marion removes the leather pouch from her purse and pours a stunning

collection of jewelry on a black felt tablet on the counter.

Marion removes her sunglasses and looks at him. Her eyes are red.

EXT RKO LOT DAY

Welles is pursuing Schaefer as they stride through the bustling RKO

backlot.

Schaefer stops.

I didn't--

Schaefer turns and stomps away Welles stands, lost for a moment in the

dream factory

In a bit of a daze, Welles slowly begins walking through the backlot. A

bustle of loud activity in a corner of the lot draws his attention.

A bulldozer and a dozen workmen are busy tearing down the facade of a

large white mansion. They strip the wood off and toss it into an

incinerator.

Welles sees Schaefer standing before all this activity, deep in

thought.

Welles goes to him and they stand together in silence for a moment as

they watch the house being razed.

Welles shakes his head

Pause as they watch Scarlett O'Hara's dream mansion being torn apart.

A beat.

Or a CITIZEN KANE

They gaze at the destruction of Tara as we hear:

INT SAN SIMEON. ROMAN POOL NIGHT

Hearst sits in a wicker chair by the shimmering in-door Roman Pool. But

for Hearst and the single chair, the pool is deserted and has no other

furniture.

Hearst is staring at the gold and blue mosaic of tiles reflected in the

water.

As we hear:

The radio voice fades to silence.

The silence continues but for the haunting echo of a lion roaring in

the distance. Then Hearst hears the sound of footsteps echoing on the

tile. He looks up. It is Marion. She walks around the pool to him.

Without a word she hands him a check.

It is made out to William Randolph Hearst in the amount of one million

dollars and is signed Marion Davies.

A long pause. He looks up at her, profoundly moved.

EXT MAYER'S ESTATE DAY

A row of six shining limousines are lined up in front of Mayor's

enormous house. The chauffeurs stand together and chat.

EXT.  MAYER'S ESTATE. BACKYARD

Mayer sits in the glorious back garden of his house. Six other men are

gathered around him.

Mayer nods his head to each as we pan around the faces

A beat.

Thank you all for coming. You got my memo. What do we do?

A beat

A beat.

A beat.

Selznick stands.

He storms off

A pause.

Laughter

A pause.

A long pause

Five seconds tick by as we focus on the titans of Hollywood

INT RECORDING STAGE DAY

KANE composer Bernard Hermann again stands before the orchestra, his

arm poised, waiting to begin conducting. He is about to record some new

music for the deep-focus Thatcher/Bernstein/Kane scene from CITIZEN

KANE.

Welles sits nearby, supervising everything. Welles nods and on a movie

screen the scene from KANE begins and Hermann starts conducting. The

orchestra plays.

The music carries into and gradually fades during.

INT SAN SIMEON. ASSEMBLY ROOM DAY

In a scene eerily reminiscent of the Thatcher/Bernstein/Kane scene,

Marion sits in the extreme foreground, a man we do not know sits at

middle distance at a desk and Hearst stands far away.

Hearst has his back to them and stares out a window.

The new man is MR. LEWIS, a tight banker from New York, 50's.

He looks over a thick legal document on the desk as he speaks:

newspapers but the actual ownership will go to the Conservation

Committee and the banks. We will be immediately closing 12 of the

papers and the wire services. And we will be liquidating other assets

as soon as possible. Most of the land in Mexico as well as your

collection of art and antiquities--

A long pause Hearst finally turns and walks to them.

A long beat as he looks at her. Then he quickly signs the document on

the desk. He puts down the pen and leaves the room without a word

INT SAN SIMEON. STAIRWAY NIGHT

Marion sits nestled on a sweeping marble stairway Weeping

INT NIGHTCLUB. HOLLYWOOD NIGHT

A swank benefit dinner is in progress A band plays

A banner hangs over the nightclub stage: CHILDREN'S MILK FUND BENEFIT,

1940

We float through the elegant crowd and spy Louis B. Mayer and Louella;

Clark Gable and Carole Lombard; all manner of movie stars and power

brokers.

We also spy Schaefer sitting with Mank and Toland and a few other men

and women.

The evening's EMCEE takes the stage

Laughter from the crowd

Polite applause as Welles bounds to the stage with RITA HAYWORTH and

the band begins to play a buoyant tune.

Schaefer practically drops his fork

Welles is dressed in a padded costume and made up in a way that can

suggest no one but William Randolph Hearst. Rita Hayworth is dressed in

a manner mightily like Marion Davies.

Louella glances to Mayer, daggers. Some knowing laughter from the

audience. Particularly Mank

A line of chorus girls hoof on and join Welles and Rita Hayworth as a

row of harsh footlights snap on, giving the scene a resemblance to the

"Charlie Kane" dance in CITIZEN KANE.

And Welles launches into a jaunty song and dance version of

"DISGUSTINGLY RICH" an almost unknown Rodgers and Hart song;'. Welles

has wickedly changed some of the lines. '

Welles, Rita Hayworth and the chorines do a nifty soft-shoe turn as

Schaefer turns to Mank:

Welles and Rita Hayworth conclude their little dance break and Welles

resumes the song:

About here Louella storms out.

"I'll eat salmon, I'll play backgammon. Turn breakfast into brunch,

I'll take Thomas Ince to lunch I'll aspire, Higher and Higher.

About here Louis B Mayer and a few others storm out.

About here Schaefer buries his face in his hands

Welles and Rita Hayworth conclude the number with a big flourish.

Some applause

Mank stands and applauds loudly. Laughing. Welles bows solemnly to Mank

EXT NIGHTCLUB FOLLOWING

Later that night, Welles is about to climb into his limousine outside

the nightclub with Rita Hayworth when Schaefer suddenly appears and

grabs his lapel.

Without a word, Schaefer pulls Welles roughly into an alley beside the

nightclub. He slams Welles into the alley wall.

Schaefer slaps Welles firmly across the face. Welles is stunned.

Schaefer glares at him and then rages off

Welles straightens his suit and then, with a shaking hand, reaches for

a cigar. He tries to laugh, but cannot.

INT SCHAEFER'S OFFICE. RKO DAY

Schaefer sits at his desk, absolutely dazed. Speechless

B. Mayer sits across from him.

beat

Schaefer is stunned.

Pause.

Mayer stands and smiles

Mayer goes. Schaefer sits, smelling defeat.

We linger on Schaefer as a haunting echo of "I CAN'T GET STARTED" is

heard. . .

INT/EXT SAN SIMEON NIGHT

We float through the estate as we hear the ghostly strains of Bunny

Berigan's recording of "I CAN'T GET STARTED."

It is a sad journey.

By this time many of the ornate antiquities have been removed from the

castle and it resembles Welles' stark and dreary Xanadu all the more.

We float past the private zoo, now empty, the cages hanging open. We

move past the tennis courts, empty.

We float into the castle itself and through the stripped- down

Screening Room and the Assembly Room and the Great Dining Hall.

All are mere shadows of their past glory.

We finally float into the ballroom

A record of "I CAN'T GET STARTED" spins forlornly on a turntable.

And Marion and Hearst are having a quiet, poignant dance together in

the middle of the empty ballroom.

They finally stop dancing and stand swaying gently. Then they stop

swaying.

She holds him closely as "I CAN'T GET STARTED" concludes

INT CHASEN'S RESTAURANT. PRIVATE ROOM DAY

Welles has booked a private room at Chasen's. A long banquet table

contains cans of sterno heating various dishes.

Large photographs of the American West and renderings from THE LIFE OF

CHRIST are scattered around other tables.

Welles wanders around the renderings with Gregg Toland and Mank. Welles

carries a plate of food and consumes as:

Schaefer enters.

Schaefer blinks at the massive photos and renderings.

Welles stops eating

Beat.

Absolute silence

Pause

Welles suddenly FLINGS his plate of food in Schaefer's direction as he

ROARS:

Welles- rampages around the room

And in a screaming, bellowing fury, Welles tears apart the room.

In a scene sharply reminiscent of Kane destroying Susan's bedroom,

Welles rampages around the room, upsetting tables and smashing

everything in reach.

Welles finally grabs a flaming can of sterno and flings it at Schaefer,

Schaefer knocks it away.

Then Welles stands in spent exhaustion, panting. One of his hands is

bleeding.

He looks at Schaefer. A pause. Then:

New York ... The stockholders

Give me one chance. And then you will never have to see me again.

INT.   GIMBELS NEW YORK  DAY

The entire two-acre fifth floor of Gimbels is in chaos

A large banner is suspended at one end of the floor; "The Hearst

Collection." It is the first day of the sale and it is mobbed.

Hearst and Marion, alone in a crowd, walk wordlessly through the

mayhem.

Everywhere around them hundreds of eager customers strike like hawks,

snatching up useless junk and treasured antiques.

We see bits and pieces of San Simeon in the jumble

They pass a man and his wife, holding up Marion's -BLESS THIS CASTLE"

sampler:

Hearst and Marion continue to walk, finally arriving at the section

containing the true, expensive treasures.

Hearst watches as customers pick up and fondle his life.

He glances at a framed front page of the San Francisco Examiner. The

date is March 4, 1887. In a large box on the page is: "IT IS THE ROLE

OF THE PRESS TO COMFORT THE AFFLICTED AND AFFLICT THE

WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST. PUBLISHER."

He looks at her. A long moment. He tenderly touches her face.

Then:

He takes her hand and leads her away as we pull up and take in the

entire fifth floor.

It is a stunning KANE-like image of rows and rows of merchandise piled

high. Of junk and jewels. Of Charles Foster Kane and William Randolph

Hearst.

INT HOTEL ROOM. NEW YORK NIGHT

Welles sits brooding in his hotel room. His invincible energy appears

gone.

He is deep in thought, listlessly shuffling and reshuffling a deck of

cards in one hand.

He aimlessly shuffles through the cards and plucks one out.

He glances at the card. It is the nine of hearts.

He shuffles through the cards again and pulls out another card.

He looks at the card. It is the two of clubs.

His attention is now fully on the cards. He shuffles them dramatically

and snatches out a card. He looks at it and then tosses it away. He

shuffles again, working the trick, again it fails. He tosses another

card away. He continues, ;' more quickly, to attempt the trick. It

fails again. And ' again.

With a frightened moan Welles flings the entire deck away from him and

bolts out of the room...

EXT HOTEL ROOFTOP NIGHT

Welles emerges from a stairway on the roof of his hotel.

He marches to the edge of the roof and leans against a railing, gasping

for air.

Everywhere below him the shimmering lights of Manhattan twinkle and

flash; cabs and neon and noise. The night sky above him is filled with

stars.

He looks away from the city and up to the stars -- they captivate him

fully. He stares and stares at the impossible chaos of beautiful

lights.

A long moment as Welles gazes at the stars. The city below and the

noise seem to disappear and Welles stands, safe and at peace under the

silent dome of stars.

The stars are reflected in his huge, dark eyes

Magically, the stars in his eyes give way to the vague shapes of men

sitting around a table.

Welles looks at the men.

We pull back to see we are at

INT RKO BOARD ROOM. NEW YORK DAY

Welles stands at the head of a long conference table. Title: APRIL 6,

1941

Around the table are gathered a group of stern businessmen Schaefer is

also present.

Welles looks at the men. And he speaks. For once, his usual

overwrought, theatrical tones are gone.

He speaks simply.

In this country we still have our voices. And we can sing with them.

And we can argue with them. And we can be heard. Because we are . . .

for the moment . . . free. No one can tell us what to say or how to say

it, can they? We have no brown shirt thugs here ruling our lives, do

we? No one can take our voices, can they? Because we are free.

I am one voice and that is all. My picture is one voice. Men are dying

in Europe now -- and Americans soon will be -- so that we can surmount

the tyrants and the dictators. Will you send a message across this

country that one man can take away our voices?

So ... who is Mr. Hearst and who is Mr. Welles? Mr. Hearst built a

palace of brick and mortar and starting little wars and corpses piled

high. I built a palace of illusion. My castle Xanadu is a matte

painting and camera trick. It's nothing but . . . a dream.

Today you have a chance to let the dream triumph. For once.

He gazes at them and then slowly walks out of the room

INT LONG HALLWAY. NEW YORK DAY

Welles sits quietly on a bench in a long hallway in a tall building.

Schaefer emerges from an office and goes to him. He sits next to him.

Welles slowly nods.

Welles looks at him.

He stands and begins walking away.

Welles stops, not turning.

Welles continues down the hall

INT HOTEL. NEW YORK NIGHT

Title: APRIL 30, 1941 Welles is rushing to catch an elevator as the

doors close

He nips in at the last minute and punches his button. He turns.

The elevator is deserted but for one other person: William Randolph

Hearst.

Welles and Hearst recognize each other instantly. As the elevator

ascends the two men look at each other.

A very long pause as we watch their faces -- the young man and the old

man -- both men of mad grandeur and malevolent passion and stunning

inspiration -- both men of incalculable achievement and measureless

poignancy.

Finally:

A pause as Hearst regards Welles.

Then Hearst carefully reaches over and presses the stop button on the

elevator. The elevator stops.

An exceedingly quiet exchange:

A beat.

A pause.

Can you truly envision such ... horror.

Hearst presses the stop button again and the elevator begins to move.

The doors opens on Hearst's floor and he leaves the elevator.

The doors are about to shut on Welles when he leans forward; and roars:

The doors shut on Welles and we remain with Hearst as he slowly walks

down the long hotel hallway.

He walks with dignity.

EXT PALACE THEATER. NEW YORK NIGHT

It is the premiere of CITIZEN KANE, at last.

The Palace Theater swarms with tuxedos and dress gowns as the elite of

New York and Hollywood descend from limousines and slowly parade into

the packed lobby.

On the Palace marquee "ORSON WELLES" is spelled out in enormous six

foot tall electric letters. Below that is "CITIZEN KANE" also in

electric letters. Above the marquee is a series of towering, flashing

neon Charles Foster Kanes and the words "IT'S TERRIFIC."

Title; MAY l, 1941

We float down and enter the crowded lobby with the patrons...

INT PALACE THEATER. LOBBY FOLLOWING

We swirl with the throng of patrons in the lobby as they file into the

theater and finally find Welles and Schaefer huddled together nervously

in a corner of the lobby.

They are studiously ignored and snubbed by all the movie people

filtering past.

They are ignored by a few more people

Beat

Mank fights through the crowd

Schaefer looks at him for a moment

When I'm an old coot playing dominoes down in Miami Beach fifty years

from now, I'll say, "Hey, you kids ever heard of a guy named Randolph

Hearst?" And they'll say, "Nope. Never heard of him." And then I'll

say, "Hey, you ever heard of a picture called CITIZEN KANE?"  And they

will have. That's enough for me.

Pats Welles arm and goes into the theater

Mank pulls at Welles' arm.

Mank stops and looks at him deeply.

He pulls Welles away from the theater and down the street.

INT. PALACE THEATER - NIGHT

We watch the faces

In the flickering blue light we watch the audience as we hear Bernard

Hermann's evocative and haunting opening music to CITIZEN KANE.

We slowly move across a sea of faces as the music plays. For everyone,

especially the movie people, what they are seeing is a revelation and a

revolution. It is a whole new way of seeing the world.

We see their amazement as they are mesmerized -- and their confusion as

they are challenged.

And we see George Schaefer, quietly proud.

Bernard Hermann's opening music continues to play until we finally

hear;

And the world of movies is forever changed

INT   DESERTED BAR. NEW YORK  NIGHT

Welles and Mank are sitting in a rundown, deserted bar

A beat. Mank takes a drink.

A long pause

Then Welles speaks, softly.

He looks at Mank and toasts.

And Orson Welles smiles. Indomitable.

THE END.

