EXT. MARYBOROUGH PARK - AUSTRALIA - DAY (1906)

MUSIC - string violins treat us to a familiar song opening

and then a voice - male.

A whoosh of wind spins us around in a blue sky, spinning,

spinning until we slow to a stop and find ourselves amongst

white fluffy clouds. A shadow (oddly shaped like an umbrella)

dances amongst the nimbus.

The shadow's direction becomes purposeful - taking us down

through the clouds, whipping us on the wind towards a small

town in the distance.

Downwards and downwards until it skittishly circles a large,

bustling park and then swoops us into the lavish gardens.

There, a ten-year-old girl plays in the lush grass; she puts

the finishing touches to a miniature version of the large

park she sits in - benches made from twigs, trees from

flowers, picnic cups from acorns - and gives a satisfied nod.

She wraps her arms tightly around her chest, lifts her face

to the sky, a half-smile threatening to break across her

concentrated face. This is the young P.L. TRAVERS (whom we

will also know as GINTY.)

Her little brow is furrowed with imagination and then, all of

a sudden, the smile breaks free as something in her mind

becomes real.

INT. SHAWFIELD ST - PAMELA'S OFFICE - LONDON - MORNING (1961)

P.L. TRAVERS sits in her rocking chair (in the same position

as above) arms clasped tightly around her body, face to the

sky. Older, beautiful; striking blue eyes aid her air of

stiff and steely determination.

Her office is a canvas of a life well travelled. Buddha

smiles from every corner, framed poetry and letters adorn the

walls alongside pictures of Pamela throughout the years with

men we will not come to know and everywhere, china hens sit

on shelves, their wings clasped to their chests, brooding.

Despite the multitude of objects, the room is peaceful,

white.

Downstairs the doorbell rings.

Pamela closes her eyes, breathes.

It rings again, Pamela shakes her head, tuts. She stands up,

smooths down her skirt with flat palms. Breathes.

INT. SHAWFIELD ST - DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - MORNING

Pamela opens the front door and squints as a flood of

sunlight and cherry blossom petals float over the threshold.

DIARMUID RUSSELL (45) - bright, youthful - waits to be asked

inside. Pamela is not pleased to see him.

INT. PAMELA'S LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Pamela and Diarmuid sit in silence. Diarmuid looks at her,

she looks out of the window.

You're ready to--? Like pink clouds on sticks.

Diarmuid looks at his watch.

Diarmuid buries his face in his hands.

Diarmuid's shoulders visibly sag, he lets out a long

frustrated breath.

Pamela snorts.

Pamela looks out of the window, the cherry blossom her focus.

He looks around.

Diarmuid shakes his head, sighs.

Pamela looks to the ceiling, breathes.

Pamela huffs, digs her heel into the rug.

Diarmuid gets up.

Pamela looks at the cherry blossom again, a piece floats away

from the tree and sticks to her living room window.

EXT. MARYBOROUGH PARK - DAY

A large hand taps Ginty on the shoulder, she looks up and

smiles. TRAVERS GOFF (35) is handsome and rugged, a wild

poetic look, like Ted Hughes or Dylan Thomas.

Ginty giggles.

Travers puts his nose right up to hers, peering into her

face.

He swings her up onto his shoulders and gallops off through

the park, neighing like a horse.

INT. PLANE - DAY

Pamela is hot and bothered trying to wrestle a bulging carpet

bag into an overhead locker.

The flight attendant tries to help anyway.

She glares at the people around her.

Pamela narrows her eyes at the attendant as if to say `I dare

you.' A woman, with an infant, stands up.

The flight attendant smiles thankfully and replaces the

woman's bag with Pamela's.

Pamela gives her a watery smile and takes the seat next to

the window, she looks out at the tarmac.

She closes her eyes, takes a deep breath, opens her eyes

again and tucks her feet tidily together. She folds her hands

neatly into her lap and looks straight ahead.

The passenger across the aisle hears her, horrified!

EXT. GOFF RESIDENCE - MARYBOROUGH - DAY (1906)

BIDDY (3) and MARGARET - the girls mother, delicate, weak -

stand outside of their lavish red-bricked home. Suitcases

bulge at their feet. Margaret breathes a sigh of relief as

she sees Travers hurrying towards them, he swings Ginty from

his shoulders and plops her on the ground.

Margaret takes her youngest child MOYA (1) from the nanny.

She picks up her own case; Katie Nanna turns away,

heartbroken.

The family get into line, one behind the other, Travers in

the lead.

Ginty takes Andrew's leash, her own case and somehow helps

her sister too.

Passersby tut and shake their heads at the noisy display as

Travers and the girls march down the street.

Margaret stays for a beat, longingly taking in and storing a

picture of the home she leaves behind.

EXT. DOWNTOWN MARYBOROUGH - DAY

The procession continues into the bustling downtown.

EXT. TRAIN STATION - DAY

It's hectic as tickets are purchased and a CLERK marks a

chalkboard with destinations and mileage. Ginty stops, looks

at the list. The last city is--

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

The Great Western Queensland train chugs its way Westward

from the verdant green of Maryborough toward the brown cake

of Allora.

EXT. ANGLE ON MARYBOROUGH - DAY

As it disappears. Ginty stands on the last train platform,

watching her home, her past, fade into the distance.

Ginty's face speaks resignation as it, and the train, recede

as billowing white smoke and dust fill the frame.

INT. PLANE - DAY

Pamela jolts in her seat, her eyes flit open. She's disturbed

by her dreams, she flicks her hand in front of her face as if

somehow batting the memories away. She sighs loudly and digs

her heel into the carpet of the plane.

INT. LAX - ARRIVALS - DAY

A bleary eyed Pamela carries her two bags into the arrivals

area. She's immediately hit by dazzling sunlight and a sea of

signs bearing the names of various passengers and companies:

she scans Paramount, Warner Brothers, MGM, finally falling

upon her own name - P.L. Travers - underneath "Walt Disney

Presents".

She approaches the uniformed driver (RALPH - Mickey Mouse on

his lapel) who bursts into a beaming smile.

Pamela sneers. He grabs her bags.

Ralph ushers Pamela through the doors--

EXT. LAX - DAY

--and into the sunlight.

Pamela sniffs the air.

Ralph chuckles.

EXT. LIMOSINE - DAY

The shiny black, tinted windowed limo cruises up La Cienega

Blvd, passing all kinds of monstrous architecture and garish

billboard advertising.

INT. LIMOSINE - DAY

Pamela is diminutive on the back seat of the sprawling car.

She eyes the champagne on ice, the flutes clinking in the in-

car bar.

Ralph looks at her in the rearview.

Pamela presses her fingers to her temples. She looks around,

finds a button, pushes it and the screen rises between

passenger and driver miraculously relieving her of Ralph's

natter.

EXT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - DAY

With its pink facade and flag flying turrets the hotel

resembles a candy castle simmering under a midday sun.

The limo glides into the forecourt.

INT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - DAY

A porter opens the door to Pamela's suite and places her

belongings on a luggage stand in the hallway.

The porter has no idea what to say, he hovers at the door.

His eyes flick to his empty palm and back to Pamela. She

closes the door on him.

She turns and for the first time takes in--

--The LUDICROUS suite she has been assigned; it is opulent

beyond imagine but it's classy decor has been rather

diminished by the array of Disney gifts splattered across

every surface of the room.

Disney Flowers, Disney champagne, Disney exotic fruit

baskets, Disney chocolates, Disney posters, cuddly Donald,

Pluto and Minnie toys and - taking up the entire bed - the

BIGGEST stuffed Mickey Mouse imaginable. Imagine it. Nope.

BIGGER!

Pamela cannot contain her horror. She stares at it in disgust

for a moment, and then her eyes fall upon three pears in the

fruit basket. She stops still for a second before rushing

over and picking them out. She turns them over in her hands

before an enormous wave of panic washes over her.

She throws open the balcony doors for fresh air and is

greeted with dry arid heat, dust, dazzling sunlight--

EXT. GOFF HOUSE - ALLORA - DAY

--Arid heat, dazzling sunlight. Travers, Margaret and the

children climb stand in a line at the top of a pathway. From

their perspective all there is to see is a cloud of swirling

red dust; it obscures and then gradually reveals her new

home. The surrounding land yellow and burnt - unlike the lush

greens of Maryborough. The house is ramshackle and meagre.

A swayback white nag wanders near a solitary tree and a few

skinny chickens strut about the porch.

Travers puts an arm around her shoulder.

Margaret offers him a trusting smile.

Travers takes Ginty and Biddy's hands and they run towards

their new home. The chickens scatter.

Margaret looks at the surrounding area, there's simply

nothing but barren land and red dust for miles.

EXT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - POOL - DAY

SPLOSH! A green bomb disturbs the tranquil surface and then

another SPLOSH!

We rise through the water to see Pamela on her balcony

throwing the pears, one by one, into the swimmer-free

swimming pool.

INT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - SUITE - CONTINUOUS

She breathes a sigh of relief and closes the balcony doors.

She gathers up the Disney paraphernalia and shoves it all in

a closet.

She picks up her bags and goes through to the bedroom where

the BIGGEST stuffed Mickey Mouse imaginable takes up the

entire bed. Imagine it. Nope. BIGGER!

Pamela drops her bags, grabs Mickey and places him on the

floor, facing the wall.

Pamela opens her carpetbag and begins to unpack. She takes

from it a bottle of pills, which she places on her night

stand, followed by another bottle and another and another.

The potions keep coming, as do creams and books and make-up,

the bag is endless. Things, things and more things come

streaming out of it and once the night stand is full she uses

windowsills and any other available surface for her miniature

Buddhas. Finally she takes out an impossibly large framed

picture of herself. She holds it up, admires it, takes down

an existing painting and replaces it with her own image.

Pamela is restless, she looks around the room, stands in

front of a full length mirror, admiring herself. She turns

her face slightly to catch it at its best angle. She leans

forward and explores the contours of her face, surprisingly

unlined for a woman of her years. She smiles, full of vanity.

She laughs, but Pamela finds joy difficult so it comes out as

an ugly snort.

She turns her attention away from the mirror and picks up a

remote control staring at it with bemusement. She points it

at the television hitting random buttons until suddenly the

TV bursts into life.

She clicks again, the TV goes off, again and it's on. A

housewife advertises dish soap with glee, as if dish soap is

the greatest thing ever invented.

She changes the channel and stares blankly at a man on a

black and white screen. It takes a moment before she realizes

that staring back at her is the charming, moustached, kindly

face of WALTER ELIAS DISNEY (58) on The Wonderful World of

Disney Show. Pamela raises an eyebrow--

CU: TV SCREEN

Walt is ringing a little bell but no sound comes out.

Tinkerbell flies into shot.

She covers Walt in fairy dust.

Pamela can't help but be drawn in for a tiny moment and then

just as quickly, narrows her mistrusting eyes at Walt and

switches him off.

EXT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL

A tray of untouched dinner sits outside the door.

INT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - NIGHT

Pamela lies in bed awake, staring at the ceiling, she shakes

her head - trying to free it of whatever is trapped in there.

The moonlight casts a shadow of Mickey on the wall beside her

bed.

EXT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - MORNING

Pamela waits under the hotel awning, dressed immaculately,

not a hair out of place. The limo pulls up to the curb and

Pamela groans as she sees Ralph jovially jump out of the car

and rush round to open the passenger door.

He gestures for her to get in.

Pamela grimaces.

INT. LIMOSINE - CONTINUOUS

Pamela tucks her legs in and folds her hands into her lap.

Ralph climbs into the driver's seat.

Ralph starts the engine and drives away.

EXT. DISNEY STUDIOS - BURBANK - DAY

THREE MEN in suits wave at the limo as it drives through the

enormous gates of Disney's Burbank Studio and pulls up in a

very twee forecourt.

They are: DON DAGRADI (45) and the SHERMAN BROTHERS, ROBERT

(34), he leans on an old worn cane and RICHARD (31), who has

a bright, sunny, almost cartoon-ish face.

Don opens the car door for Pamela and puts out a hand to help

her from the vehicle but she pushes it away.

The Sherman's look at each other. Uh oh.

Bob and Dick flash each other a look. What the fu ?

Not a music--? If you'll point me in his

Pamela takes herself off in the direction of a building.

Don hurries behind her, Bob looks like he is about to murder

the woman and Dick is finding the whole thing incredibly

amusing.

EXT. DISNEY STUDIOS - BURBANK - DAY

The Shermans, Don and Pamela are riding through the studios

on a golf buggy.

A couple of Disney characters (Donald and Goofy) bounce up to

the golf cart, waving brightly. Goofy opens his arms to

Pamela for a hug and she recoils in horror.

The characters stop bouncing and Di Gradi gives them a nod

meaning `beat it'.

Bob and Dick Sherman are in shock.

INT. DISNEY - EXTERIOR OFFICE - DAY

Don leads Pamela into the plushly appointed outer office,

where DOLLY - a young, perky secretary - smiles brightly at

her.

Dolly loses her smile at the terse tone, nods curtly and

picks up the phone.

We hear a man's cough before a beaming Walt Disney, in the

flesh, appears at the end of the corridor, his arms

outstretched.

Pamela gets up, smooths down her skirt, and makes her way

serenely towards the man, who rushes down the corridor to

greet her.

Pamela is open mouthed.

Pamela doesn't know what to do with this amount of

enthusiasm. She extends a formal hand before he manages to

get her in an embrace.

He squeezes her tight and then lets go. Pamela struggles to

compose herself, she hasn't been that close to a man in

decades!

Disney winces.

There's a hint of something mournful in the way he says `old

man.'

He links his arm through hers, much to her chagrin, and leads

her into his interior office past an imposing floor to

ceiling cabinet bursting with Academy Awards.

INT. DISNEY - INTERIOR OFFICE - DAY

He smiles at TOMMIE - who mans the second desk.

But Pamela has already been whisked through to Disney's

personal office.

INT. DISNEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Disney's office is tastefully furnished and filled with

pictures of his daughters and wife. Framed posters of his

films provide splashes of color to the cream walls.

He gestures to a comfy couch in the corner but Pamela takes a

seat in front of Walt's desk instead, glancing at the sign

above it: We Can Make Them Live. Walt perches on the edge of

the desk, close to her, gazing at her.

Pamela narrows her eyes.

Interestingly, she doesn't pull him up on using her first

name and shortening it too!

He turns a photo of his daughters - Diane and Sharon - to

face Pamela.

He stands up and throws his arms in the air to emphasise his

point.

I do. Twenty years!

Yes. Twenty. So you keep I've been asking, asking,

Pamela stops talking and waits for Disney to calm down.

He sits back down on his desk.

He's up again.

Pamela rubs her temples as she watches him fly about the

room.

The door opens and Tommie comes in with the tea, Walt

gestures for her to bring it to him.

Tommie places the tray on Walt's desk and leaves the room.

Walt picks up the tea pot.

Walt puts the pot down immediately like a scolded child and

picks up the milk jug, he pours.

He picks up the pot again and pours the tea.

He stirs.

He presents her with the cup.

She takes a sip, he waits anxiously to see if his tea is any

good.

Walt is baffled. He takes a sip of tea, it's disgusting, he

spits it back into his cup surreptitiously, then coughs

loudly. Pamela's jaw drops.

Walt takes a sharp breath on `silly' and then plasters the

smile back on.

Pamela rolls her eyes.

She smirks, as does he.

He's not sure if she's playing with him.

He moves closer to her, takes her hand, she needs it for her

teacup, it's awkward.

Pamela is torn between finding Disney captivating and totally

barking.

She extricates her hand.

Disney hands the rights agreement and a pen to her, Pamela

takes it without looking and folds it up.

She pops the rights document in her bag. Walt's joviality,

his bright demeanour, vanishes in a split second.

She stands up and smooths down her skirt.

He holds out his hand for her to shake.

She leaves his hand hanging in mid air.

Pamela gets up, smooths down her skirt, snorts at a picture

of Disney in a silly hat astride a model train and

purposefully strides out of the room, a smile across her face

that Disney does not see.

EXT. VERANDAH - DUSK

Travers sits, looking out at the dimming sky, playing a

mournful air on his tin whistle, Ginty curled up in his lap,

Andrew the dog asleep beside him. Margaret steps out onto the

veranda an almost imperceptible glance at the half-empty

bottle at his feet.

Travers continues to play.

Travers takes the pipe from his lips and sighs.

He kisses her cheek and gently lifts her from his lap.

Margaret strokes her hand over Ginty's hair as the little

girl slips into the house but hovers unseen by the door,

watching her parents. Travers pats his knee and Margaret

perches on it.

Margaret strokes Travers face and turns her face to the sky.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

Pamela sits at a large meeting table as Dolly bustles around

her placing refreshments. Pamela lays out her pencils one by

one, makes sure her notebook is `just so.'

A bowl of fruit is set down upon her notebook and she

snatches it away, glaring at the table which is now laden

with every type of snack and beverage imaginable from bagels

to candy, coffee to soda, there are exotic fruits, enormous

bouquets of flowers.

She shoots him dead with a killer stare.

She gets up and moves the giant bouquet of flowers off the

table and plops it on top of Dick's piano. Bob moves it from

the piano to the floor.

Bob hasn't a clue what to say. Pamela smoothes down her skirt

and re-takes her seat.

Everybody waits.

Pamela flicks her eyes at the tape recorder which Don duly

turns on.

She perches her glasses on her nose and raises an eyebrow at

the cover of her script - "Walt Disney's Mary Poppins."

A rustling of papers and one or two uneasy glances as the

men, too, open their scripts.

Scene one. Exterior Cherry Scene one. Ext. Ext? What's

Tree Lane. London. Day. Bert-- Ext?

Dick and Bob cover their faces with the embarrassment of it

all.

She nods.

She makes a note in her script and looks to the others who

are dumbstruck.

Don makes the note and is ready to move on but Pamela is

staring at Dick and Bob. They dutifully pick up their pencils

and note their scripts too.

Don glances towards the swirling tape recorder and nods.

They are interrupted by DOLLY carrying a new tray of

refreshments.

Dolly gingerly places the tray on the table and hovers,

distributing fruit and biscuits within reachable distance.

Pamela shakes her head but decides to ignore Dolly and carry

on.

Dick jumps up and sits at the piano.

Dick begins to play and sing, he pounds the keys with gusto,

smiling away, acting it out with all his heart and soul,

almost unable to contain himself with glee. Bob occasionally

joins in for a word or two but is much more serious, eyeing

Travers for her every reaction.

Dolly winces on everyone's behalf and leaves the room.

Dick quickly hides the next set of sheet music entitled:

SUPERCALIFRAGILISTICEXPIALIDOCIOUS.

Dick's fingers crunch the piano keys.

EXT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - EVENING

Pamela's door opens a crack and another half-eaten room

service meal appears as she kicks it into the hallway. She

shuts the door quickly behind her.

INT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL

Pamela lies awake staring at the ceiling.

EXT. FIELD - NEAR GOFF HOUSE - DAY

A tiny park, about half a metre square - it has grass, tiny

trees made from flowers, a small hole filled with water for a

pond, park benches made with twigs and miniature wooden

clothes-peg people. Ginty puts the finishing touches to the

bandstand and sits back, staring in wonder.

The moment is broken with the sound of hooves as her father

appears, atop his horse.

The horse moves up to her.

The velvety muzzle of the horse "smooches" Ginty's neck and

ear as Travers climbs down from the nag.

Travers sighs, let's the words ring in his ears, touches the

end of daughter's nose.

She nods. He hauls himself onto Albert, leans down and swings

Ginty up so she is facing him.

She nods and wraps her arms around him looking backwards over

his shoulder.

He grips her firmly around the waist and she spreads her

arms.

Travers kicks the horse into a trot, then into a canter, he

points a finger in the air as if shooting for the stars.

Ginty squeals with delight.

INT. LIMOSINE - MORNING

Pamela looks out of the window at the palm trees, the empty

sidewalks. She looks dazed, extremely tired--

EXT. LAUREL CANYON - MORNING

The limo floats along the windy canyon roads, cresting the

top of the hill and revealing an awe inspiring vista.

EXT. FIELD - ALLORA - DAY

Travers and Ginty gallop at great speed. The horse kicking up

great clods of earth as they hurtle away into the distance.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

Don DaGradi and the Shermans are escorting Pamela along a row

of storyboard illustrations for the film. Dolly trundles

along behind, carrying a tray with a cup of tea on it which

Pamela occasionally picks up and takes a sip from.

She stops in front of a sketch of the Banks house.

Don allows a tiny smile. She is right. Pamela lingers over a

picture of the parrot head umbrella, a split second of

something like recognition on her face and then she simply

moves on.

She stops again in front of a sketch of Mrs Banks wearing a

suffragette ribbon.

Dick mouths `oh my god!'

The boys see that Pamela is talking about something

meaningful to her and they begin to soften for a brief

moment, until--

Dick makes a curly wurly cuckoo sign at Bob.

They all nearly choke at the word `sexy' coming out of her

mouth.

She comes to the next sketch and stops abruptly in front of

it, a split second of utter confusion crosses her face.

She turns to face Don and the boys.

Pamela doesn't acknowledge that Dolly has spoken; Dolly

flushes.

Everyone shrugs, they don't know why.

Bob buries his face in his hands and let's out a long, loud,

unashamed moan.

Pamela stares at Bob.

She points at the door, ordering him out with her finger. Bob

is literally stunned. Dick stifles a laugh.

Bob storms out of the room (as fast as his limp and cane will

allow him) slamming the door and from behind it we hear:

Pamela smiles sweetly.

INT. BAR/LOBBY - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - LATE AFTERNOON

Pamela enters the lobby and heads for the elevator. She spies

the bar, full of people laughing, exclaiming, enjoying one

another's company. She takes it in melancholically for a

second and then jabs the elevator button repeatedly, relieved

when the doors finally slide open.

INT. GOFF HOUSE - WASHROOM - ALLORA - MORNING

Travers faces his reflection in the mirror as Ginty looks on

from the doorway. He picks up his razor and begins to scrape

away the stubble.

INT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - SUITE - MORNING

Pamela stares at herself in the clouded bathroom mirror. She

runs a finger through the steam on the glass.

And again.

INT. DISNEY STUDIOS - CORRIDOR - DAY

Dolly, carrying a tray of cakes, stops at the rehearsal room

door where fractious voices ring out.

The slamming of a piano lid. Dolly pushes the door open with

her foot.

INT. DISNEY OFFICE - DAY

Dolly stands in Disney's office.

Dolly sighs and pulls out a note pad.

Walt laughs, Dolly allows herself a little giggle too.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

Dick, Don and Pamela sit around the meeting table. Bob hovers

by the door in a right humph. Disney prefers to stand,

grazing occasionally from a bowl of candy.

Their mouths are agape.

Disney comes and sits on the table in front of Pam and locks

eyes with her.

Pamela averts her eyes for a split second, embarrassed about

`creating something beautiful' with Walt, but quickly

recovers and eyeballs him right back.

She takes the rights agreement out of her bag and offers it

to him.

Disney smiles at Pamela.

Pamela glances at the tape recorder.

Don and the Shermans can't believe he has given in! Disney

strides out of the room.

INT. DISNEY STUDIOS - CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Disney marches down the corridor away from the rehearsal

room. He stops, turns, goes back to the door, puts his hand

on the handle, stops himself and moves on.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dick, Don and Bob are left astounded. They look at one

another.

All three turn their heads to turn to her.

Pamela smiles a broad satisfied smile at the boys, smooths

down her skirt and opens the script.

No one is in the mood to sing for her.

Dick begins to play--

Pamela sighs, so do Don and Bob.

If you want this choice (expecting Dick to stop)

position, No no! They can't make deman--

have a cheery disposition--

But Dick ignores her and carries on.

No warts! Who in the world put that

Play games, all sorts! Hm.

You must be kind, you must be Well of all the ridiculous--!

very sweet and fairly pretty

Take us on outings, give us Completely defeats the--

Bob and Don are trying to stop themselves from laughing as

Dick barrels right over everything Pamela says, almost as if

the two of them are doing a duet.

Sing songs, bring sweets No sweets!

Never be cross or cruel Who would give a child cast--

Never give us castor oil or ?

Dick grimaces (a la Michael Banks.)

And never smell of barley What in the world does

water smelling of barley water have

If you won't scold and

We will never give you cause Hate is too strong a wor--

to hate us--

We won't hide your spectacles (into tape recorder)

so you cant see Nobody's listening to me!

Or pepper in your tea No.

INT. DISNEY'S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Walt stands looking out of his window.

Pamela sits on a bench, her feet tucked together, her arms

clasped around her body, her face to the sky. She sits

perfectly still until the limo pulls up and Ralph gets out,

patiently waiting beside the car so as not to disturb her.

Pamela, opens her eyes and Ralph nods hello. He opens the

back door for her and she climbs in.

Tommie appears in his office with a glass and hands it to

Walt.

Walt continues to stare out of the window.

Tommie waits for a response but he's still window bound,

filled with intrigue as he watches the car disappear.

INT. BAR/LOBBY - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - LATE AFTERNOON

Pamela enters the lobby and heads for the elevator. She spies

the bar again, a few people chatting over cocktails. The

elevator doors open but she chooses to go and sit at the bar

instead.

Pamela looks around at the other women in the bar, all

glamorous, coiffured, very different to the practical Mrs

Travers.

The tea pot arrives.

But the barman has already moved on to another patron.

Time moves swiftly, the teapot is drained, the customers come

and go. The barman talks with another customer further along

the bar. Nobody notices Pamela. In this setting she looks

like a little old lady, awkwardly perched on a stool, staring

into her empty cup.

EXT. BELHATCHETT BANK OF AUSTRALIA - ALLORA - DAY

Ginty - in a rather tattered school uniform - is diminutive

in front of the huge double doors to the bank. An upright,

top hatted gentleman holds the door of the bank open

chivalrously for her.

INT. BELHATCHETT BANK OF AUSTRALIA - ALLORA - CONTINUOUS

Ginty and the man enter the bank.

A bank worker tips his hat to the gentleman.

Cashiers look up from their posts and nod courteously.

Ginty and RANDOLPH BELHATCHETT are startled for a second by a

loud crash. Their eyes flit to the glass door of Travers'

office. The etching on the glass reads:

TRAVERS GOFF - BANK MANAGER

INT. TRAVERS OFFICE - DAY

Travers has just dropped (purposefully) a tray of coins on

the floor. He has a wild edge to him, he may well have been

drinking.

The clerk laughs nervously.

Travers wields a glinting letter opener in the air, stabbing

piles of papers, filing cabinets, desks.

Travers looks at the figure standing outside his door and his

eyes widen.

Travers pushes the door open to reveal Ginty at his side and

is felled.

All eyes fall upon the little girl whom everyone seems to

have forgotten. Travers is overcome with embarrassment and

guilt.

Ginty looks up at Belhatchett and the manager.

Randolph walks away, stopping to whisper in Travers ear.

Travers holds out his arms to Ginty and she runs into them.

EXT. RIVER - ALLORA - DAY

Ginty and Travers sit by the river. Ginty eats an enormous

ice cream and Travers sips continuously from his hip flask.

He stares across the river, experiencing a wave of deep

melancholy. Ginty looks up at him, aware of his profound

unhappiness, but unable to understand its source.

EXT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - NIGHT

Another untouched meal in the hallway.

INT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - NIGHT

Pamela lies in the dark, the phone pressed to her ear.

We don't hear what Diarmuid says.

She hangs up the phone, and continues sitting upright. Wide

awake. Staring into the darkness.

Pamela checks through her multitude of pill bottles for

something to help her. Nothing. She groans as she drags

herself out of bed, pacing the room, counting steps.

Her eyes stray to the big Mickey Mouse. She drags it onto the

bed with her and climbs back under the covers, clinging onto

the stuffed toy for comfort.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - MORNING

The room is decidedly more lively, with sketches of the cast

and models of the sets all about the place. And of course,

the requisite abundance of brightly coloured food now

accompanied by some healthier options - vegetables and a

fluorescent looking soup.

Bob and Dick are at the piano. Don sits in the corner,

sketching energetically on his notepad what seems to be a

cartoon sketch of Pamela Travers.

Dick throws his hands and legs in the air almost falling off

his stool!

EXT. DISNEY STUDIOS - BURBANK - MORNING

Pamela steps from the car and Walt is there to greet her.

As they walk the sound of the piano filters out of the

rehearsal room window and down onto the lot.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - MORNING

Dick is playing about with a verse.

Dick is confused.

Dick plays a high note.

He takes a pencil from behind his ear and marks Dick's sheet

music. Dick immediately begins finding the tune on the piano

Don looks up from his sketching.

The sound of Walt's cough signals his imminent arrival.

Pamela and Walt enter the room.

Walt takes a seat beside the piano. Pamela folds her arms

across her chest defiantly.

Bob whistles what will end up being the Robin's part of the

song.

Pamela rolls her eyes.

Dick is completely deflated.

She waves the script in the air.

She opens a window and flings the script out.

Dick, Don and Bob look out of the window as the pages flutter

downwards and spread themselves over the Disney lot.

Pamela sighs, shakes her head.

EXT. DISNEY STUDIOS - LATE AFTERNOON

Pamela makes her way to the bench she waits on for Ralph.

She sits down, wraps her arms around herself, closes her

eyes.

EXT. BACK PADDOCK - ALLORA - DAY

Margaret sweats as she hangs out laundry whilst desperately

shushing her screaming infant.

Ginty and Biddy run in and out of the sheets, chasing a large

hen that squawks and flaps its wings trying to escape the

girls.

The girls and Margaret look up, surprised to see Travers so

early.

She runs at him and swings her high into the air with one

arm, catching Biddy with the other.

He dips her and smooches her.

Travers spies the clucking demon.

Travers throws his jacket to the ground and begins to chase

the hen, tearing through the clean sheets and treading them

into the ground.

Margaret look at the dirty sheets and shrugs.

The kids run after their father squealing and giggling as the

poor little hen runs for its life. Even the dog joins in,

Margaret goes to retrieve the discarded jacket and sees a

whisky bottle protruding from the inside pocket, she slips it

back inside - out of sight, out of mind.

Ginty dives on the hapless bird, who pecks her soundly and

scarpers. It's chaos. Travers, the girls, the dog and the

evasive hen running into each other, falling over each other,

cursing and laughing.

INT. TRAVER'S BEDROOM/CHILDREN'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Biddy and Moya sleep but Ginty is awake, the hen snuggled

firmly under her arm. She can hear the tense voices of her

parents.

Travers weeps and Ginty closes her eyes, buries her little

face in the hens feathers.

INT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - NIGHT

Pamela sits up in bed - leaning back into the open arms of

Mickey Mouse - applying face cream, then hand cream, her face

is screwed into a twist of unhappiness.

EXT. DISNEY STUDIOS - BURBANK - NIGHT

Disney sits on Pamela's bench, deep in contemplation.

Piano music tinkles from somewhere in the building and then a

Walt is dragged from his thoughts and gets up to follow the

sound.

INT. DISNEY STUDIOS - BURBANK

Walt walks towards the music room, visibly moved by the song,

a cough rattling in his throat.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - NIGHT

Also in lamplight, Dick Sherman sits at his piano. Bob asleep

on a couch in the corner. Walt pushes the door open, Dick

knows he's there but keeps tinkling away.

Dick nods, still playing. Walt makes his way to the piano,

sighs, sits next to Dick on the stool.

Dick stops playing and flicks to a new page of sheet music.

Walt laughs out loud, he sings with Dick reading the lyrics

from the music sheet.

The men smile, bittersweet.

Dick raises his eyebrows.

Walt peers down at the sleeping Bob.

Walt leaves the room.

EXT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - POOL - NIGHT

Pamela sits by the pool, arms clasped around her, looking at

the stars. The pink and green of the hotel shimmers in the

water making it look like a chalk painting.

EXT. GOFF HOUSE - ALLORA - LATE AFTERNOON

Ginty sits on the front step of the porch, arms clasped

around her body, face to the sky.

The sounds of the evening closes in - crickets, the last

deafening chorus of the birds.

Travers walks up the path to their home, trailing his suit

jacket over his shoulder, his shirt and tie loosened. His

shirtsleeves are marked with sweat. His face is a study of

something close to despair.

He looks up to see Pamela sitting on the front step and

immediately arranges his features into a bright smile of

greeting.

Margaret steps out onto the veranda, takes one look at her

husband and knows he is drunk.

She goes back indoors and slams the door behind her. Ginty

gets up to go indoors and Travers catches her by the arm.

He swallows hard, eyes welling.

He coughs to stop a crying jag and leaves her alone on the

porch.

Ginty is unnerved by her Travers' demeanor, she creeps around

to the side of the house where she watches her father appears

in the window of the washroom. She doesn't know what to do as

he leans his head against the wall and breaks down sobbing.

INT. LIMO - MORNING

Ralph looks at Pamela in his rear-view, she seems weak, the

steely fight flown away on the East wind. Her arms wrapped

around her chest, her face turned to the window.

Pamela doesn't even hear him.

INT. ALLORA SCHOOL - AFTERNOON

Ginty stares out of the window, in a daydream, a paintbrush

in her hand, dripping colour down her arm.

She is nudged to the present by her teacher, MRS CORRY.

Ginty turns back to her painting - her banner reads:

Around the words Ginty is painting a gorgeous carousel with

stunning horses, one of which is white with roses on its

bridal.

INT. FAIRGROUND - ALLORA - DAY

Margaret, Biddy and Ginty walk into the fairground. Tents are

erected, farmers show off their sheep, children clutch sticks

of cotton candy and a carousel spins with one stunning white

horse amongst the drearier others, roses upon its bridal.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - MORNING

Pamela stares out of the window, not really concentrating on

what's going on in the room.

Again, she doesn't hear.

Pamela looks at Don.

Pamela nods, noncommittal.

EXT. FAIRGROUND - ALLORA - DAY

A small stage and dais stand central of the event over which

a large sign reads:

The Allora townsfolk are out in force. Ginty walks with her

family. Her father attempting to memorise speech notes as

they pass through the crowds.

Margaret nudges him as Randolph Belhatchett and his family

walk past.

Randolph looks at Travers, then at Travers shaking hands, his

family nod and move on. Margaret looks upset by this.

Travers buys two immense sticks of fairy floss and hands them

to Ginty and Biddy.

Margaret is aghast at being spoken to like that in public but

she keep her mouth shut.

Ginty notices Travers eyes stray towards the refreshments

tent.

But the refreshment tent has Travers in its grip.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

As before.

EXT. FAIRGROUND - ALLORA - DAY

Ginty stands with her family at the carousel, eyeing the

refreshment tent.

Margaret sees the direction of Ginty's gaze. Her face falls

but she takes Biddy by the hand and heads for the stage.

INT. REFRESHMENT TENT - DAY

Ginty appears in the tent's entrance. On first glance she

sees only an unidentified group of local drinkers. Relief

begins to dawn and she turns away.

It is then that she hears Travers laugh, and turns back to

see the group part, revealing Travers at its centre.

She takes a deep breath and moves forward, grabs Travers

hand.

Devastated, Ginty doesn't know what to do, she pulls at his

shirt sleeve again.

A waiter approaches and takes her by the arm, leading her

away.

Despairing she looks up and sees her mother, carrying Moya,

in the entrance. Her mother's face falls and crumples.

EXT. FAIRGROUND - ALLORA - CONTINUOUS

Travers steps heavily, one at a time, up the steps onto the

dais, and finds his way to the speaker's podium. Margaret

and Ginty watch, hearts in mouths, Biddy blissfully unaware.

Randolph looks at Travers with displeasure and then at one of

the bank staff.

Ginty allows herself to breathe. So far, so good.

She can't say it. Ginty takes her mother's hand but Margaret

pushes the hand away.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Pamela turns away from Don and the Shermans and takes herself

to look at a sketch of Mr Banks, pinned to the wall, he still

has a moustache.

EXT. FAIRGROUND - ALLORA - CONTINUOUS

Travers is now in lip synch with Dick Sherman.

And you'll achieve that sense And you'll achieve that sense

of stature of stature

As your influence expands as your influence expands

To the high financial strata To the high financial strata

That established credit now That established credit now

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Don is up and singing with the boys. They are enjoying

themselves so much that they don't notice Pamela's eyes well

slightly.

EXT. FAIRGROUND - ALLORA - CONTINUOUS

As before.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

As before.

EXT. FAIRGROUND - ALLORA - CONTINUOUS

There's a smattering of applause, Travers is encouraged,

Margaret and Ginty look relieved, even hopeful.

But then Travers momentarily looks lost, a slight breeze tugs

the speech notes from his hand and they float down in front

of the dais.

Ginty - what? Me?

Ginty glances to her mother and then, on trembling legs,

makes her way forward and up the stairs onto the dais.

Margaret watches, growing uneasy.

The audience is shocked.

Everyone is beginning to look uncomfortable.

Gasps from the audience.

Margaret - dying.

Father and daughter walk towards the edge of the stage,

Travers leaning on Ginty's shoulder. The shameful glare of

Allora burning into them.

Travers somehow loses his footing before reaching the steps

and topples off the stage. There's an audible, horrible snap

as he lands in an undignified pile. But, despite his ugly

injury, Travers cannot stop laughing.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The boys are laughing, congratulating one another.

Pamela takes a last look at the Mr Banks picture and spins

around viciously.

The boys jubilance is halted immediately.

Yep. Yes.

Silence. They know where this is going.

Pamela chokes back a sudden rush of distress.

The boys are shocked at the level of upset.

She leaves the room, head hung.

INT. TRAVERS BEDROOM - GOFF HOUSE - DAY

Travers is in bed, his leg elevated and set with plaster. He

is shaking badly with DT's, his mood is poisonous.

Ginty sits on the edge of the bed as the DOCTOR packs up his

bag.

The doctor shakes his head at Travers wanton greed for more.

Ginty is wary.

Travers slams his fist on the bed, scaring Ginty.

Nervous, hopeful, Ginty withdraws a folded sheet of paper

from her pocket.

Travers takes the page, tries to hold it steady in his

shaking hand.

The agony as Ginty watches the shaking hand. Finally, the

humiliation is too much for Travers. He scans the page

rapidly and lowers his hand.

Ginty is devastated. But more than this there's a hardening

in her small face, a sense of disillusionment that so far

she's held in check. Here are the first signs of the Pamela

to come.

INT. DISNEY STUDIOS - BURBANK - DAY

Pamela rushes from the rehearsal room, down the corridor, her

face twisted, desperately trying to maintain composure. Don

rushes out after her.

He stops, recognizing she doesn't need to be followed.

INT. KITCHEN - GOFF HOUSE - DAY

Ginty rummages through kitchen cabinets, drawers, the trash

but doesn't find what she's looking for.

EXT. DISNEY STUDIOS - BURBANK - DAY

Pamela rushes past Minnie Mouse and Daisy Duck, through the

lot, past Ralph - who's taking his lunch at the cafeteria -

and towards a patch of green, a communal lawn at the back of

a soundstage.

EXT. GOFF HOUSE - DAY

Ginty fights the smell of the warm rubbish in the midday sun

as she ransacks the outdoor trash cans, finally finding what

it is she's looking for.

EXT. GRASS AREA - DISNEY STUDIOS - BURBANK - DAY

Pamela flops down onto the ground, digging her fingers into

the dirt and lawn.

INT. TRAVERS BEDROOM - GOFF HOUSE - DAY

Ginty creeps into her father's room, he sleeps fitfully, and

presses the half-full bottle into his hand. Covering both

hand and bottle with his bed covers before leaving the room.

EXT. GRASS AREA - DISNEY STUDIOS - BURBANK - DAY

Pamela picks a daisy, finds a stray twig and arranges them in

the grass.

Pamela looks up, her eyes are red rimmed but she's not

crying.

He hands her the tea in a takeaway cup.

Ralph, shifts nervously from foot to foot. He's not quite

sure what to say to her or why he brought the tea.

Pamela puts the tea down and continues to fiddle with bits

and pieces of twig and bloom that she's plucking from the

area around her.

Ralph lowers himself onto his haunches.

Ralph is confused.

She pulls a thread from the hem of her skirt, ties two twigs

together.

Ralph sees that she has a little collection of things, he

looks around for some more. Pamela takes a stick and digs a

small line through the grass then hands it to him.

Ralph dutifully does as he's told, looking over his shoulder

for fear of being caught digging holes in Disney soil.

Ralph pokes the ground, thinking.

Pamela raises an eyebrow.

Pamela takes the plastic lid off the paper cup and pokes

holes in it.

She takes the lid, twigs now sticking out of the poked holes

and places it in the centre of what we now see is one of

Pamela's tiny parks, she gently rest a leaf on the twig

struts forming a roof.

She takes the cup of tea and gently pours the steaming liquid

into Ralph's trench, which runs all the way around the park.

He points at the miniature park.

INT. GINTY BIDDY & MOYA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Ginty, Biddy and Moya sleep soundly, Ginty clutching the poem

to her chest.

The door creeps open and Margaret stands in the shadows

looking at her children, tears stream down her face but she

seems calm, something has crossed over in her eyes. There's

just nothing there--

Ginty is groggy, she doesn't understand.

Ginty sits up.

Margaret leaves the room and Ginty is straight out of bed

following her. Behind, in the room, Moya has awoken and is

crying.

EXT. GOFF HOUSE - ALLORA - NIGHT

Ginty runs out onto the porch where she sees her mother in

her white nightdress striding purposefully through the garden

like some ethereal ghost.

She runs out into the yard but stops as she hears Biddy.

Ginty turns back to the house and then back towards her

mother but Margaret has disappeared into the darkness.

The baby is screaming now.

INT. GINTY BIDDY & MOYA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Ginty wrenches the eiderdown off the bed and wraps Biddy in

it, she scoops Moya up from the crib.

She takes them through the hallway, stopping momentarily

outside the door to her fathers bedroom. It is slightly ajar

and he looks incredibly frail and delirious.

She moves forward, her eyes flit to the front door, expecting

her mother to be standing there any minute but there is

nothing.

EXT. CREEK - NIGHT

The mud-stained hem of Margaret's nightdress sweeps along the

ground, as her feet move towards, and then into, the water of

the creek. One step, two, three, the water coming up over her

ankles, soaking the nightgown.

EXT. LIVING ROOM - GOFF HOUSE - NIGHT

Biddy and Moya are calming as Ginty places the girls in front

of the fireplace.

Ginty wraps Moya in a blanket and puts her in Biddy's arms.

EXT. PORCH - GOFF HOUSE - NIGHT

Ginty begins to untie Albert from the fence still speaking to

the girls through the window.

Ginty climbs atop the horse.

EXT. PADDOCK - NIGHT

Ginty rides fast, desperately searching the darkness for her

mother and turning back frequently to check that the lamp

still burns on the porch.

EXT. CREEK - NIGHT

Margaret is up to her neck in the freezing water of the

creek. Shivering cold. She wills herself forward into the

water. She wants to sink down and simply float away.

From behind her comes the clip clopping of hooves. Margaret

turns her head and there, atop the horse, is Ginty.

Margaret begins to weep.

Ginty jumps down from the horse and rushes to her mother,

wading into the water to grab hold of her.

Ginty bobs up and down in front of her mother in the deep

water.

She reaches out her hand--

INT. SUITE - EVENING

Pamela looks through a stack of books intently, jotting

something down on a piece Beverly Hills Hotel stationery

every now and then.

Presently, the phone rings. Pamela almost jumps out of her

skin. She rushes to grab it.

INT. DISNEY'S OFFICE - BURBANK - EVENING.

Walt sits at his desk, flicking through cartoon drawings of

penguins.

INTERCUT BETWEEN PHONE CALLS AS NECESSARY.

Silence.

Silence.

She notices Mickey's innocent eyes staring at her and gently

turns his face away.

Walt slams the phone down. Pamela stares at it in shock!

Walt leans back in his chair and grins, Tommie enters.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

Dick, Bob and Don are drained. They stare at each other in

silence. Just the look tells us how much this all means to

them. It's desperate. Walt flings the door to the room open.

INT. GOFF HOUSE - TRAVERS BEDROOM - ALLORA - MORNING

Ginty sits beside her father, he is restless and sweating in

his sleep as she wipes his face with a damp sponge.

The sound of a buggy pulling up outside breaks the silence.

And then a new voice, clear as a crystal bell.

Travers eyes spring wide open in horror.

INT. GOFF HOUSE - ALLORA - MORNING

A parrot headed umbrella hangs from the back of a chair.

An enormous carpetbag - similar to the one Pamela carries -

plonked on the living room table and there beside it,

upright, imposing and matronly is AUNT ELLIE herself. Hair

scraped back, hands neatly perched inside her apron pocket -

a very different version but Mary Poppins all the same.

Ginty looks on in awed silence as Ellie begins to remove an

endless supply of belongings from her bag.

Biddy is open mouthed.

Young Pamela and Biddy look on in a kind of bewildered trance

as item after item emerges from the carpetbag.

Ellie claps her hands together.

INT. LIMOSINE - MORNING

Ralph drives along solemnly. Pamela looks out of the window,

confused.

EXT. DISNEYLAND ENTRANCE - DAY

Ralph drives Pamela up to the entrance to the park. Two

security guards stop the car briefly and then the gates pull

open to reveal Walt Disney waiting for Pamela.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Ralph is goggle-eyed at seeing Walt.

EXT. DISNEYLAND - DAY

Ralph jump out of the car to let his passenger out but Disney

is there first.

Pamela steps out of the car and her eyes nearly pop out of

her head with brightness of the place, unbelievable colour

and excitement.

Pamela pops a headache pill.

Ralph hovers at the car, filling his eyeballs with as much

Walt Disney as he can get before he has to drive away.

Walt takes Pamela by the arm and leads her through the gates

and a murmur goes through the crowds as they gawp. A YOUNG

WOMAN breaks free and rushes up to Walt.

She proffers a pen and paper but Walt is prepared, he takes a

signed postcard with his face on it from his top pocket and

hands it to the woman.

The woman looks expectantly at Pamela who just snorts. she

realizes she's getting nothing and, clutching her precious

postcard to her chest, melts back into the crowd who part

like the red sea for Walt and his guest.

EXT. MAIN STREET - DISNEYLAND - CONTINUOUS

Walt and Pamela make their way down Main Street. Walt stops

anyone from getting too close by immediately handing out

postcards to anyone who gets near.

Pamela rolls her eyes.

There is a protracted silence as they walk, both encompassed

by their own thoughts. The sunshine, the joyful crowds just

background colour.

They pass by a store front and Walt glances up at the window.

It reads: Elias Disney Contractor Est. 1895. Pamela notices

the look but doesn't say anything.

Pamela nods curtly.

He sees right through her.

Way ahead of them the carousel spins in the distance.

EXT. KING ARTHUR'S CAROUSEL - DISNEYLAND - DAY

The carousel slows to a halt and a herd of excited children

climb down from the horses and disappear into the park.

He escorts Pamela to a beautiful white horse, roses on it's

bridal.

Pamela looks at the children climbing onto the carousel.

Pamela sighs and allows Walt to help her onto the horse.

He clambers onto his own horse, gestures to the ride

controller and off they go!

Pamela gently bobs up and down, Walt waves to her and she

sees the unbridled thrill from the child in Mister Disney

spilling out. The tiniest, tiniest of smiles threatens to

surface on her lips as he points a finger in the air as if

shooting for the stars.

INT. TRAVER'S BEDROOM - ALLORA - DAY

Travers has a violent coughing fit, he looks to his hand,

disturbed to see blood there. He grimaces at Ellie who has

her back to him as she folds clothes, a look of deep

satisfaction on her face.

His face softens as his hazy gaze falls upon Ginty, outside

the window, sweeping. Their eyes meet for a brief moment, an

unspoken understanding of what is to come, before his close

with tiredness.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

All the tables have been pushed to the walls, Don is just

pushing the last one away as Pamela comes in, followed by

Dolly with the tray carrying Pamela's tea.

She looks at the new arrangement of the room.

Bob clenches a fist but Dick gives him a look that says: keep

calm.

He ushers her to a chair facing the centre of the room. He

hands pages to Bob and pages to Dolly. Don and Dolly drop to

their knees so that they are half the height of Bob.

Pamela raises an eyebrow.

Bob pulls a kite out from behind his back.

Dick strikes a chord on the piano.

Bob takes the hands of Don and Dolly and he dances around

with them (awkwardly as they are still on their knees and Bob

has a limp.) Pamela's eyes on the fixed kite.

Don notices Pamela's foot tapping, he stands up.

Don drops to his knees again.

Is Pamela humming too?!

Don bows to Pamela puts his hand out to her and to his

surprise, she accepts and they begin to waltz. Pamela is

surprisingly elegant and accomplished.

Everybody is up and dancing, it's like something out of a

Disney movie!

Dolly breaks away and rushes from the room.

INT. DISNEY OUTER OFFICE - DAY

Dolly pants her way to the top of the stairs, and sees Walt

just about to enter his office.

Walt spins around.

He cracks a great big smile.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

As before.

They all collapse in a heap, exhausted and thrilled.

Dick punches the air.

Bob glares at her.

Everybody sighs with relief and Pamela looks to the

caricature of Mr Banks with deep warmth.

INT. TRAVERS BEDROOM - GOFF HOUSE - EVENING

Ginty sits with her father, he's a shadow of his former self,

extremely ill. The shaking has stopped, his lips are parched

and blueish.

Travers reaches up a shaking hand and musses up Ginty's

perfectly plaited hair.

Travers doesn't respond. Ginty reaches into her pocket, takes

out tuppence.

She shows it to him in her open palm.

INT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - NIGHT

Pamela sits bolt upright in bed, panicked.

EXT. GOFF HOUSE - ALLORA - DAY

Ginty skips off the porch, clutching her tuppence. Chattering

to herself about pears.

EXT. LAUREL CANYON - MORNING

The limo crests the top of the hill.

INT. LIMO - MORNING

Ralph admires the view as he always does.

INT. REHEARSAL ROOM - DAY

Pamela leans on the piano peering at her script. The boys are

dotted about the room; all are mid-work.

Pamela is genuinely curious.

Pamela is confounded.

He draws a little squiggle in the air to illustrate his

point.

Pamela's face turns beetroot red, she pushes herself away

from the table and storms out of the room, slamming the door

behind her.

INT. DISNEY - OUTER OFFICE - DAY

Pamela comes storming into the offices suite. Dolly smiles up

from her desk.

She heads for Disney's office and Dolly is up and running

after her down the corridor.

Pamela blows past Tommie's desk.

INT. WALT'S OFFICE - DAY

Pamela pushes open Walt's doors, catching him in the midst of

signing a stack of postcards of his grinning face, an unlit

cigarette in his pen hand.

Disney gestures to his cigarette.

Walt is confused.

Pamela reaches into her purse and pulls out the assignment of

rights papers and leaves them on the table.

She turns on her heel and leaves. Disney stares at the pages

aghast.

INT. DISNEY - OUTER OFFICE - DAY

Pamela flies past Dolly's desk.

EXT. DISNEY STUDIOS - DAY

Pamela flees to her bench, wrapping her arms around herself.

Disney comes after her.

But she's gone, face to the sky, eyes closed, breathing.

Ralph pulls up and gets out of the car.

He suddenly sees that Pamela is more deeply entrenched in

herself than usual and his priority becomes her.

Ralph moves past Walt and gently taps Pamela on the shoulder,

she opens her eyes, relieved to see him.

She goes to get in the car and Disney puts a hand to stop her

but Ralph blocks it.

Walt steps away and Ralph closes the door to the car.

Walt watches the car disappear, wracked with frustration and

confusion. He takes a seat on Pamela's bench and wraps his

arms around himself and looks to the sky.

EXT. LAX - DAY

Ralph climbs out of the limo and opens the back door for

Pamela. He gestures for a valet to come and take her bags and

opens the trunk of the car.

Pamela smiles.

Ralph hands her his pen and she begins to write.

She shakes his hand.

Ralph is chuffed to bits.

She hands him the piece of Beverly Hills Hotel stationery

with her notes on.

Ralph looks at her in awe.

Pamela turns to leave.

Pamela doesn't look back.

INT. DISNEY - OUTER OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Tommie and Dolly silence their gossiping as a tired and

broken Walt Disney appears in front of them.

Tommie looks down at her paperwork and nods at Walt

apologetically.

Tommie hands him the itinerary, he glares at it.

Walt is confused.

Tommie and Dolly look at each other and shrug.

EXT. GOFF HOUSE - DAY

Ginty skips up the path, clutching a brown paper bag. She

ruffles Andrew's fur before entering the house.

INT. GOFF HOUSE - DAY

Ginty senses something wrong, she hears hushed, urgent and

emotional voices in the hall. She pokes her head into the

hallway. There, huddled together, whispering are her mother,

the doctor and Aunt Ellie.

Ellie is holding a pile of blood stained sheets.

Ginty stands frozen, trying to still the panicked beating of

her heart.

Margaret spies Ginty and moves towards her as if in slo-mo.

There are flecks of blood on her dress. She is ashen,

shattered. She comes down to Ginty's level.

Ginty cannot react.

Margaret sweeps her into her arms and Ginty drops the brown

paper bag; it tears and scatters pears all over the floor.

Ginty's eyes fix on Aunt Ellie's umbrella on the back of the

chair, drawn into its beady black eyes.

Suddenly she turns into a wildcat - lashing, thrashing,

biting, screaming. Nothing will stop her seeing Travers.

Margaret is forced to let go and Ginty runs for her father's

bedroom.

INT. TRAVERS' BEDROOM - DAY

Ginty stands in the bedroom, a long way from the bed. She

stands there, it seems, for an eternity. Then, finally, step

by step she draws closer. The empty bottle on the floor. The

sheets twisted, still wet with sweat, flecked and spotted

with blood. The front of her father's nightdress is also

bloodstained. Ginty's eyes reach his face. Travers lies, eyes

open, mouth open, teeth slightly red-stained, neither

peaceful nor distressed. Just-- nothing.

She perches on the edge of the bed and takes his hand.

Ellie appears in the doorway, Ginty addresses her without

turning around.

EXT. SHAWFIELD STREET - LONDON - DAY

A black London Taxi pulls up outside the house. Pamela climbs

out of the car, struggling to pull her huge Mickey Mouse out

too.

INT. SHAWFIELD STREET - LONDON - DAY

Pamela moves through the vestibule, lugging her suitcase.

INT. PAMELA'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Pamela sits in a chair in the living room watching in

darkness. She gently closes her eyes, ringed with sadness and

a lifetime's despair.

There's a knock at the door and she jolts awake, she doesn't

know how long she's been asleep but it's black outside. She

gets up and rushes to the door as quickly as her feet will

take her.

She swings it open.

Standing on the doorstep is Walt Disney. Pamela is, quite

literally, speechless.

He looks down at her hand clenched into a fist and shaking.

INT. PAMELA'S DRAWING ROOM - NIGHT

Pamela sits at the table, as Disney carries in a tray with a

teapot, a milk jug, a sugar bowl and two cups. These he

places on the table and proceeds to pour tea.

He attends to it.

Disney follows her gesture to the whiskey decanter. She takes

it from him and pours a generous slug into her teacup.

He pours a slug into his tea too.

He laughs.

She doesn't answer. Walt takes mouthful of laced tea and

coughs a little.

Walt stops talking, catches himself, looks away and then

gives in. His enthusiasm completely disappears and he's

suddenly as ragged and as weary as Pamela.

He gestures to his knees.

Walt smiles at Pamela, sips his tea.

Pamela looks at her hands, they're shaking.

Pamela looks down at the table top.

INT. PAMELA'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Pamela is alone. The unsigned rights papers in front of her

on the table. She looks at Mickey who occupies the chair

opposite her, her face softens under his gaze.

EXT. ANIMATION BUILDING - THREE YEARS LATER - DAY

Disney employees pass by a giant movie poster which reads:

MARY POPPINS - OPENING SOON! Walt exits the building. He's

but a few steps out of the door when Tommie appears behind

him.

She hands him a sheet of paper.

She looks at Walt questioningly.

Tommie holds his look.

Walt walks away, he's lost a bit of steam. Tommy watches him

go.

INT. PAMELA'S OFFICE - DAY.

Pamela taps away on her typewriter with gusto. She pings the

return and breathes, satisfied.

The doorbell sounds, voices.

Pamela begins to tap again.

Pamela tuts, tries to carry on with her work.

Pamela rises from her chair, smoothes down her skirt.

She rises from her chair, smoothes down her skirt and makes

her way to the front door.

INT. PAMELA'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Pamela and Diarmuid sit together. Pamela is quite changed,

she looks younger, radiant, worry free.

Polly kicks the door open with her foot and plonks the tea

down in front of Pamela and Diarmuid. She sneezes twice,

doesn't bother to pour and turns to leave.

Polly leaves, Pamela rolls her eyes.

Diarmuid laughs.

Pamela narrows her eyes at him.

Pamela doesn't reply.

INT. PLANE - DAY

Pamela is hot and bothered trying to wrestle her cabin

baggage into an overhead locker. The same flight attendant

from the top of the film appears.

The flight attendant recognizes her with something akin to

horror.

Pamela takes the seat next to the window, she looks out at

the tarmac.

She closes her eyes, takes a deep breath, opens her eyes

again and tucks her feet tidily together. She folds her hands

neatly into her lap and looks straight ahead.

INT. DISNEY STUDIOS - OUTER OFFICE - DAY

Walt enters the outer office walking briskly towards his own

office.

Dolly opens her mouth to speak but he's already past and

Tommie sits, arms crossed and stares, half bemused at Walt.

Tommie nods toward his office. Pamela is sitting in a chair,

back to them.

INT. DISNEY OFFICE - DAY

Walt semi-recovers as quickly as possible and enters his

office.

She smiles sweetly.

INT. SUITE - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - DAY

The porter lets Pamela into her room, and doesn't even bother

hovering for a tip.

Pamela turns and it's like deju vu - the flowers, the

chocolates, the champagne, a VIP invitation to the premiere

of Walt Disney's Mary Poppins. And, of course, the ubiquitous

stuffed Mickey Mouse.

EXT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - FORECOURT - NIGHT

Pamela looks wonderful in a long white gown with turquoise

silk gloves to her elbows and matching wrap falling from her

shoulders.

The doorman goes to find her a cab and in his absence a limo

pulls up to the kerb. Pamela doesn't dare get her hopes up

but the door swings open and there he is, her favorite person

in America.

She rushes to him and they give each other a friendly hug.

He opens the back door for her and she climbs in.

EXT. GRAUMAN'S CHINESE THEATER - HOLLYWOOD - NIGHT

It's spectacular! Disney's biggest Hollywood opening. Bulbs

flash continuously as limo after limo pulls up at the red

carpet. Ushers are dressed as English bobbies. Reporters

stand on podiums in colourful suits, Penguins dance their

hearts out in front of the theater. Pearly Kings and Queens

play for the onlookers. Crowds and crowds of fans scream

every time a bulb flashes, waving their autograph books and

posters in the air. Every Disney character imaginable bounces

up and down the lines of well-wishers, hugging them, dancing

for them, signing their booklets. Hollywood Blvd is

completely shut down and the atmosphere is like the happiest

party you could ever go to.

INT. LIMO - NIGHT

Ralph takes the car slowly through the crowds. Onlookers

press their faces against the windows trying to make out who

is inside. Pamela is nervous, everyone else has someone with

them but Pamela must brave the crowd alone.

EXT. GRAUMAN'S CHINESE THEATER - HOLLYWOOD -NIGHT

The limo stops at the edge of the carpet and Ralph jumps out.

He rushes round to Pamela's side and helps her from the car.

Immediately a round of flashes go off and Pamela puts her arm

up to shield her eyes. It's too much.

She brings her arm down, straightens her dress and breaks

into a smile, making her way down the carpet to frantic

whispers amongst the press and autograph hunters of: "Who is

that?" "Is that anyone?" Pamela spots Walt, Dick Van Dyke and

Julie Andrews being interviewed together up ahead.

Mickey Mouse bounces down the carpet and slows-- he and

Pamela lock eyes for a brief moment. He holds out his gloved

hand, she takes it and together they watch as a huge toy

train chugs to a halt on the blvd and hundreds upon hundreds

of coloured balloons fly out of it's roof and into the air.

EXT. GRAUMAN'S CHINESE THEATRE - NIGHT

Pamela moves through the spangling, glittering, perfect

toothed Hollywood crowd and no-one pays any attention to her.

INT. GRAUMAN'S CHINESE THEATRE - AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

The auditorium is jam packed. Pamela is seated in front of

Walt Disney. Don, the Shermans and their families are in the

same row as her - Bob Sherman next to her. The lights begin

to dim. The overture begins--

We stay close on Pamela as the sounds of the overture fade

and the melody of a single tin whistle playing one of Travers

old melody's rings in her ears.

We hear snippets of the film in the background but we remain

with Pamela.

She looks around at the faces in the audience - laughing,

humming, sad, happy, joyous.

Intercut with images from Pamela's childhood and the voices

of Bert and Jane -

Ellie's parrot head umbrella--

The carousel horses at the Allora fair--

The tuppence and rolling pears--

Uncle Albert with Ginty on his back, carrying her river

soaked mother back to the house--

Ginty pressing the final bottle into her father's hand--

The image of the dead Travers in his bloodstained bed--

Children in the audience, their little faces tilted upwards.

Rapt.

And then an image from the film:

George Banks walks away from us down the misty tree-lined

London street, on his way to be fired from the bank.

Walt Disney watches with quiet satisfaction.

Pamela however has tears coursing down her face. Her

shoulders heave as she tries desperately not to sob out loud

but people are noticing, looking at her.

Disney leans forward, placing a hand on her shoulder. She

reaches up and grips it tightly, unable to speak.

Pamela nods in gratitude, but cannot contain her sobs. It's

all pouring from her now, in one immense catharsis.

We stay on her face as we bring up the final song of the

film: Let's Go Fly A Kite. The audience around her are

smiling, laughing, singing along. Pamela, the tears, silent

now, still pouring down her cheeks as she slowly begins to

mouth along with the lyrics.

And in her head one final image appears.

Travers gaze falls upon Ginty, outside his bedroom window,

sweeping. Their eyes meet for a brief moment, an unspoken

understanding of what is to come, before his close with

tiredness.

EXT. MARYBOROUGH PARK - DAY

The shadow of an umbrella leaves the ten-year-old Ginty

sitting in the lush grass, arms wrapped tightly around her

chest, face to the sky as a smile breaks free across her

face.

The shadow of an umbrella, floats higher and higher--

And further and further--

We give chase but cannot catch up--

And the umbrella floats up, up, up into the atmosphere and

