IN BLACK AND WHITE:

TRAIN WHEELS grinding against track, slowing. FOLDING TABLE

LEGS scissoring open. The LEVER of a train door being pulled.

NAMES on lists on clipboards held by clerks moving alongside

the tracks.

BEWILDERED RURAL FACES coming down off the passenger train.

FORMS being set out on the folding tables. HANDS straightening

pens and pencils and ink pads and stamps.

TYPEWRITER KEYS rapping a name onto a list. A FACE. KEYS

typing another name. Another FACE.

A MAN is taken from one long line and led to the back of

another. A HAND hammers a rubber stamp at a form. Tight on a

FACE. KEYS type another NAME. Another FACE. Another NAME.

As a hand comes down stamping a GRAY STRIPE across a

registration card, there is absolute silence... then MUSIC,

the Hungarian love song, "Gloomy Sunday," distant... and the

stripe bleeds into COLOR, into BRIGHT YELLOW INK.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - CRACOW, POLAND - NIGHT

The song plays from a radio on a rust-stained sink.

The light in the room is dismal, the furniture cheap. The

curtains are faded, the wallpaper peeling... but the clothes

laid out across the single bed are beautiful.

The hands of a man button the shirt, belt the slacks. He

slips into the double-breasted jacket, knots the silk tie,

folds a handkerchief and tucks it into the jacket pocket,

all with great deliberation.

A bureau. Some currency, cigarettes, liquor, passport. And

an elaborate gold-on-black enamel Hakenkreuz (or swastika)

which the gentleman pins to the lapel of his elegant dinner

jacket.

He steps back to consider his reflection in the mirror. He

likes what he sees: Oskar Schindler -- salesman from Zwittau --

looking almost reputable in his one nice suit.

Even in this awful room.

INT. NIGHTCLUB - CRACOW, POLAND - NIGHT

A spotlight slicing across a crowded smoke-choked club to a

small stage where a cabaret performer sings.

Its September, 1939. General Sigmund List's armored

divisions, driving north from the Sudetenland, have taken

Cracow, and now, in this club, drinking, socializing,

conducting business, is a strange clientele: SS officers and

Polish cops, gangsters and girls and entrepreneurs, thrown

together by the circumstance of war.

Oskar Schindler, drinking alone, slowly scans the room, the

faces, stripping away all thats unimportant to him, settling

only on details that are: the rank of this man, the higher

rank of that one, money being slipped into a hand.

WAITER SETS DOWN DRINKS

in front of the SS officer who took the money. A lieutenant,

hes at a table with his girlfriend and a lower-ranking

officer.

The waiter is gesturing to a table across the room where

Schindler, seemingly unaware of the SS men, drinks with the

best-looking woman in the place.

His sergeant doesnt. His girlfriend doesn't.

The sergeant makes his way over to Schindler's table.

There's a handshake and introductions before -- and the

lieutenant, watching, can't believe it -- his guy accepts

the chair Schindler's dragging over.

The lieutenant waits, but his man doesn't come back; he's

forgotten already he went there for a reason. Finally, and

it irritates the SS man, he has to get up and go over there.

His girlfriend watches him cross toward Schindler's table.

Before he even arrives, Schindler is up and berating him for

leaving his date way over there across the room, waving at

the girl to come join them, motioning to waiter to slide

some tables together.

WAITERS ARRIVE WITH PLATES OF CAVIAR

and another round of drinks. The lieutenant makes a

halfhearted move for his wallet.

Schindler's already got his money out. Even as he's paying,

his eyes are working the room, settling on a table where a

girl is declining the advances of two more high-ranking SS

men.

A TABLECLOTH BILLOWS

as a waiter lays it down on another table that's been added

to the others. Schindler seats the SS officers on either

side of his own "date" --

He motions to a waiter to refill the men's drinks, and,

returning to the head of the table(s), sweeps the room again

with his eyes.

ROAR OF LAUGHTER

erupts from Schindler's party in the corner. Nobody's having

a better time than those people over there. His guests have

swelled to ten or twelve -- SS men, Polish cops, girls --

and he moves among them like the great entertainer he is,

making sure everybody's got enough to eat and drink.

Here, closer, at this table across the room, an SS officer

gestures to one of the SS men who an hour ago couldn't get

the girl to sit at his table. The guy comes over.

GIRL WITH A BIG CAMERA

screws in a flashbulb. She lifts the unwieldy thing to her

face and focuses.

As the bulb flashes, the noise of the club suddenly drops

out, and the moment is caught in BLACK and WHITE: Oskar

Schindler, surrounded by his many new friends, smiling

urbanely.

EXT. SQUARE - CRACOW - DAY

A photograph of a face on a work card, BLACK and WHITE. A

typed name, black and white. A hand affixes a sticker to the

card and it saturates with COLOR, DEEP BLUE.

People in long lines, waiting. Others near idling trucks,

waiting. Others against sides of buildings, waiting. Clerks

with clipboards move through the crowds, calling out names.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING - CRACOW - DAY

The party pin in his lapel catches the light in the hallway.

Behind Schindler, the door to another apartment closes softly.

A radio, somewhere, is suddenly silenced.

At the door of this apartment, a man with the face and manner

of a Talmudic scholar, finally nods in resignation, like his

number has just come up.

Schindler offers a hand. Confused, Stern tentatively reaches

for it, and finds his own grasped firmly.

INT. STERN'S APARTMENT - DAY

Settled into an overstuffed chair in a simple apartment,

Schindler pours a shot of cognac from a flask.

Stern stares at the cognac Schindler's offering him. He

doesn't know who this man is, or what he wants.

Schindler looks puzzled, then shrugs, dismissing it.

He keeps holding out the drink. Stern declines it with a

slow shake of his head.

Schindler nods, takes out a cigarette case.

He offers Stern a cigarette. Stern declines again.

Schindler lowers his voice as if there could possibly be

someone else listening in somewhere.

He waits for a reaction, and misinterprets Stern's silence

for a lack of understanding.

But Stern does understand. He understands too well.

Schindler grins good-naturedly.

Schindler tries for a moment to imagine what they could

possibly be. He can't.

Stern smiles despite himself. The man's manner is so simple,

so in contrast to his own and the complexities of being a

Jew in occupied Cracow in 1939. He really doesn't know. Stern

decides to end the conversation.

He laughs loudly, uproariously. But then, just as abruptly

as the laugh erupted, he's dead serious, all kidding aside --

Stern stares at him curiously, sitting there taking another

sip of his cognac, placid as a large dog.

He shrugs; it sounds more than fair to him. But not to Stern.

Stern studies him. This man is nothing more than a salesman

with a salesman's pitch; just dressed better than most.

Silence.

EXT. CRACOW - NIGHT

A mason trowels mortar onto a brick. As he taps it into a

place and scrapes off the excess cement, the image DRAINS OF

COLOR.

Under lights, a crew of brick-layers is erecting a ten-foot

wall where a street once ran unimpeded.

EXT. STREET - CRACOW - DAY

A young man emerges from an alley pocketing his Jewish

armband. He crosses a street past German soldiers and trucks

and climbs the steps of St. Mary's cathedral.

INT. ST. MARY'S CATHEDRAL - DAY

A dark and cavernous place. A priest performing Mass to

scattered parishioners. Lots of empty pews.

The young Polish Jew from the street, Poldek Pfefferberg,

kneels, crosses himself, and slides in next to another young

man, Goldberg, going over notes scribbled on a little pad

inside a missal. Pfefferberg shows him a container of shoe

polish he takes from his pocket. Whispered, bored --

Goldberg doesn't bother; he pockets his little notepad and

intones a response to the priest's prayer, all but ignoring

Pfefferberg.

Goldberg glances to Pfefferberg for the first time, and,

greatly put upon, takes out his little notepad again and

makes a notation in it.

He flips the pad closed, pockets it, crosses himself as he

gets up, and leaves.

INT. HOTEL - DAY

Pfefferberg at the front desk of a sleepy hotel with another

black market middleman, the desk clerk. Both are wearing

their armbands. Pfefferberg underlines figures on a little

notepad of his own --

The clerk, satisfied with the figures, is about to hand over

to Pfefferberg some outlawed Polish notes from an envelope

when Schindler comes in from the street. The clerk puts the

money away, gets Schindler his room key, waits for him to

leave so he can finish his business with Pfefferberg... but

Schindler doesn't leave; he just keeps looking over at

Pfefferberg's shirt, at the cuffs, the collar.

Pfefferberg nods, Yeah, thanks, and waits for Schindler to

leave; but he doesn't. Nor does he appear to hear the short

burst of muffled gunfire that erupts from somewhere up the

street.

Pfefferberg knows he should say 'no,' let that be the end of

it. It's not wise doing business with a German who could

have you arrested for no reason whatsoever. But there's

something guileless about it.

The clerk tries to discourage Pfefferberg from pursuing this

transaction with just a look. Pfefferberg ignores it.

The clerk tries to tell Pfefferberg again with a look that

this isn't smart.

Schindler takes out his money and begins peeling off bills,

waiting for Pfefferberg to nod when it's enough. He's being

overcharged, and he knows it, but Pfefferberg keeps pushing

it, more. The look Schindler gives him lets him know that

he's trying to hustle a hustler, but that, in this instance

at least, he'll let it go. He hands over the money and

Pfefferberg hands over his notepad.

As he writes down the information, Pfefferberg glances to

the desk clerk and offers a shrug. As he writes --

EXT. GARDEN - SCHERNER'S RESIDENCE - CRACOW - DAY

As Oberfuhrer Scherner and his daughter, in a wedding gown,

dance to the music of a quartet on a bandstand, the reception

guests drink and eat at tables set up on an expansive lawn.

Other SS and Army officers share the table with Czurda.

Schindler, too, nice blue shirt, jacket, only he doesn't

seem to be paying attention; rather his attention and

affections are directed to the blonde next to him, Ingrid.

He shrugs, There you have it. Brilliant. He glances off,

sees something odd across the yard. Two horses, saddled-up,

being led into the garden by a stable boy.

Schindler gets up from the table. Scherner, his wife and

daughter and son-in-law stare at the horses; they're

beautiful.

Schindler appears, takes the reins from the stable boy, hands

one set to the bride and the other to the groom.

Scherner hails a photographer. As the guy comes over with

his camera, so does just about everybody else. Scherner

insists Schindler pose with the astonished bride and groom.

Big smiles. Flash.

INT. STOREFRONT - CRACOW - DAY

A neighborhood place. Bread, pastries, couple of tables. At

one sits owner and a well-dressed man in his seventies, Max

Redlicht.

Max looks at the man not without sympathy. He's never heard

of such a thing. It's really a bad deal. But then --

The owner of the place just stares at Redlicht.

The man doesn't answer. He watches Max get up and cross to

the front door where he says something to two of his guys

and leaves. The guys come in and start carting out anything

of any value: cash register, a chair, a loaf of bread...

EXT. CRACOW STREET - DAY

Max strolls along the sidewalk, browsing in store windows.

People inside and out nod hello, but they despise him, they

fear him.

Just as he's passing a synagogue, some men in long overcoats

cross the street. Einsatzgruppen, they are an elite and wild

bunch, one of six Special Chivalrous Duty squads assigned to

Cracow.

INT. STARAR BOZNICA SYNAGOGUE - SAME TIME - DAY

The Sabbath prayers of a congregation of Orthodox Jews are

interrupted by a commotion at the rear of the ancient temple.

Several non-Orthodox Jews from the street, including Max

Redlicht, are being herded inside by the Einsatz Boys.

They're made to stand before the Ark in two lines: Orthodox

and non. One of the Einsatzgruppen squad removes the parchment

Torah scroll while another calmly addresses the assembly:

No one does anything for a moment. The liberals from the

street seem to say with their eyes, Come on, we're all too

sophisticated for this; the others, with the beards and

sidelocks, silently check with their rabbi.

One by one then they file past and spit on the scroll. The

last two, the rabbi and Max Redlicht hesitate. They exchange

a glance. The rabbi finally does it; the gangster doesn't.

After a long tense silence.

The Einsatz NCO glances from Max to the rabbi and smiles to

himself. This is unexpected, this rift.

Max admits it with a shrug.

Silence. The Einsatz NCO glances away to the others, amused.

Nobody answers. He turns to Max.

He pulls out a revolver and shoots the old gangster in the

head. He's dead before he hits the floor.

He turns and walks away. The other Einsatz Boys pull rifles

and revolvers from their coats and open fire.

EXT. CRACOW - DAY

In BLACK AND WHITE and absolute silence, a suitcase thrown

from a second story window arcs slowly through the air. As

it hits the pavement, spilling open -- SOUND ON -- and,

returning to COLOR --

Thousands of families pushing barrows through the streets of

Kazimierz, dragging mattresses over the bridge at Podgorze,

carrying kettles and fur coats and children on a mass forced

exodus into the ghetto.

Crowds of Poles line the sidewalks like spectators on a parade

route. Some wave. Some take it more soberly, as if sensing

they may be next.

EXT. GHETTO GATE - DAY

The little folding tables have been dragged out and set up

again, and at them sit the clerks.

Goldberg, of all people, has somehow managed to elevate

himself to a station of some authority. Armed with something

more frightening than a gun -- a clipboard -- he abets the

Gestapo in their task of deciding who passes through the

ghetto gate and who detours to the train station.

Pfefferberg, with his wife Mila, at the head of a line that

seems to stretch back forever, flicks at Goldberg's OD armband

with disgust.

They consider each other for a long moment before Pfefferberg

leads his wife past Goldberg and into the ghetto.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING, GHETTO - NIGHT

Dismayed by each others' close proximity, Orthodox and liberal

Jews wait to use the floor's single bathroom.

INT. GHETTO APARTMENT - NIGHT

From the next apartment comes the liturgical solo of a cantor.

In this apartment, looking like they can't bear much more of

it, sit some non-Orthodox businessmen, Stern and Schindler.

He lets them think about it, pours a shot of cognac from his

flask, offers it to Stern, who brought this group together

and now sits at Schindler's side. The accountant declines.

Schindler lights a cigarette and waits for their answer. It

doesn't come. Just a silence. Which irritates him.

He caps his flask, pockets it, reaches for his top coat.

The investors study him. This is not a manageable German.

Whether he's honest or not is impossible to say. Their glances

to Stern don't help them; he doesn't know either.

The silence in the room is filled by the muffled singing

next door. One of the men eventually nods, He's in. Then

another. And another.

INT. FACTORY FLOOR - DAY

A red power button is pushed, starting the motor of a huge

metal press. The machine whirs, louder, louder.

INT. UPSTAIRS OFFICE - SAME TIME - DAY

Schindler, at a wall of a windows, is peering down at the

lone technician making adjustments to the machine.

Schindler turns from the wall of glass to face his new

accountant.

Stern hesitates, then nods. The look on Schindler's face

says, Well, what's to debate, the answer's clear to any fool.

INT. FACTORY FLOOR - DAY

Another machine starting up, growling louder, louder --

EXT. PEACE SQUARE, THE GHETTO - DAY

To a yellow identity card with a sepia photograph a German

clerk attaches a blue sticker, the holy Blauschein, proof

that the carrier is an essential worker. At other folding

tables other clerks pass summary judgment on hundreds of

ghetto dwellers standing in long lines.

The man tries to hand over documentation supporting the claim

along with his Kennkarte to a German clerk.

Over there, other "non-essential people" are climbing onto

trucks bound for unknown destinations. The teacher reluctantly

relinquishes his place in line.

EXT. PEACE SQUARE - LATER - DAY

The teacher at the head of the line again, but this time

with Stern at his side.

He hands over a piece of paper. The clerk takes a look, is

satisfied with it, brushes glue on the back of a Blauschein

and sticks it to the man's work card.

The world's gone mad.

INT. FACTORY FLOOR - DAY

Another machine starting up, a lathe. A technician points

things out to the teacher and some others recruited by Stern.

The motor grinds louder, louder.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Schindler wanders around a large empty apartment. There's

lots of light, glass bricks, modern lines, windows looking

out on a park.

INT. THE APARTMENT - NIGHT

The same place full of furniture and people. Lots of SS in

uniform. Wine. Girls. Schindler, drinking with Oberfuhrer

Scherner, keeps glancing across the room to a particularly

good-looking Polish girl with another guy in uniform.

Scherner thinks he understands what Schindler's saying. Just

in case he doesn't --

Scherner nods. Yes, they understand each other.

INT. SS OFFICE - DAY

Scherner at his desk initialing several Armaments contracts.

The letters D.E.F. appear on all of them.

EXT. FACTORY - DAY

Men and pulleys hoist a big "F" up the side of the building.

Down below, Schindler watches as the letter is set into place --

D.E.F.

INT. FACTORY OFFICES - DAY

The good-looking Polish girl from the party, Klonowska, is

shown to her desk by Stern. It's right outside Schindler's

office. This girl has never typed in her life.

INT. FACTORY FLOOR - DAY

Flames ignite with a whoosh in one of the huge furnaces. The

needle on a gauge slowly climbs.

EXT. CRACOW - DAY

A garage door slides open revealing a gleaming black Mercedes.

Schindler steps past Pfefferberg and, moving around the car,

carefully touches its smooth lines.

INT. FACTORY - DAY

Another machine starts up. Another. Another.

EXT. PEACE SQUARE - DAY

Stern with a woman at the head of a line. The clerk affixes

the all-important blue sticker to her work card.

INT. FACTORY DAY - DAY

Three hundred Jewish laborers, men and women, work at the

long tables, at the presses, the latches, the furnaces,

turning out field kitchenware and mess kits.

Few glance up from their work at Schindler, the big gold

party pin stuck into his lapel, as he moves through the place,

his place, his factory, in full operation.

He climbs the stairs to the offices where several secretaries

process Armaments orders. He gestures to Stern, at a desk

covered with ledgers, to join him in his office.

INT. SCHINDLER'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS - DAY

The accountant follows Schindler into the office.

Schindler goes to the wall of windows, his favorite place in

the world, and looks down at all the activity below. He pours

two drinks from a decanter and, turning back, holds one out

to Stern. Stern, of course, declines. Schinder groans.

He comes over and puts the drink in Stern's hand, moves behind

his desk and sits.

He dismisses them with a shrug; he's never had much use for

either. But the third -- he raises his glass to the

accountant. Stern's glass stays in his lap.

Stern slowly raises his glass.

Schindler drinks; Stern doesn't.

INT. SCHINDLER'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Klonowska, wearing a man's silk robe, traipses past the

remains of a party to the front door. Opening it reveals a

nice looking, nicely dressed woman.

A series of realizations is made by each of them, quickly,

silently, ending up with Klonowska looking ill.

INT. SCHINDLER'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Schindler sets a cup of coffee down in front of his wife.

Behind him, through a doorway, Klonowska can be seen hurriedly

gathering her things.

Emilie begrudges him a glance to the bedroom, catching the

girl just as she looks up -- embarrassed.

His face is complete innocence. It's the first thing she

fell in love with; and perhaps the thing that keeps her from

killing him now. Klonowska emerges from the bedroom thoroughly

self-conscious.

She shakes Emilie's limp hand. Schindler sees her to the

door, lets her out and returns to the table, smiling to

himself. Emilie's glancing around at the place.

He nods; he's proud of it. He studies her.

EXT. SCHINDLER'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

They emerge from the building in formal clothes, both of

them looking great. It's wet and slick; the doorman offers

Emilie his arm.

The doorman shoots a glance to Schindler that asks, clearly,

Really? Schindler opens the passenger door of the Mercedes

for his wife, and the doorman helps her in.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

A nice place. "No Jews or Dogs Allowed." The maitre 'd

welcomes the couple warmly, shakes Schindler's hand. Nodding

to his date --

The maitre 'd tries to bury his surprise. He's almost

successful.

INT. RESTAURANT - LATER - NIGHT

No fewer than four waiters attend them -- refilling a glass,

sliding pastries onto china, lighting Schindler's cigarette,

raking crumbs from the table with little combs.

She doesn't know, but she does know him. And all these signs

of apparent success just don't fit his profile. Schindler

lets her in on a discovery.

He waits for her to guess what the thing is. His looks says,

It's so simple, how can you not know?

INT. NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT

"Gloomy Sunday" from a combo on a stage. Schindler and Emilie

dancing. Pressed against her -- both have had a few -- he

can feel her laugh to herself.

He smiles, even as his eyes roam the room and find and meet

the eyes of a German girl dancing with another man.

INT. SCHINDLER'S APARTMENT - LATER - NIGHT

Schindler and Emilie lounging in bed, champagne bottle on

the nightstand. Long silence before --

That's not the answer she's looking for and he knows it.

That's not it either.

Schindler stares out at the lights of the city. They look

like jewels.

He promises her nothing.

EXT. TRAIN STATION - DAY

Emilie waves goodbye to him from a first-class compartment

window. Down on the platform, he waves goodbye to her. as

the train pulls away, he turns away, and the platform of the

next track is revealed -- soldiers and clerks supervising

the boarding of hundreds of people onto another train -- the

image turning BLACK AND WHITE.

EXT. D.E.F. LOADING DOCK - DAY

As workers load crates of enamelware onto trucks -- back to

COLOR -- Stern and Schindler and the dock foreman confer

over an invoice.

More to Stern --

On the surface, Schindler remains calm; underneath, he's

livid. Clearly it's not "okay" with him.

Stern and Schindler exchange a glance. Then --

The foreman nods.

INT. GHETTO STOREFRONT - DAY

Pfefferberg and Schindler bang in through the front door,

startling a woman at a desk.

They move past her without a word and into the back of the

place, into a storeroom. They stride past long racks full of

enamelware and other goods.

A man glances up, sees them coming. He's one of Schindler's

investors, the one who questioned the German's word. The

man's teenage sons rush to their father's defense, but

Pfefferberg grabs him and locks an arm tightly around his

neck.

Silence. Then, calmly --

He turns and walks away. Pfefferberg lets the guy go and

follows. The investor's sons help their father up off the

floor. Gasping, he yells.

-- but Schindler and Pfefferberg are already gone, coming

through the front office and out the front door --

EXT. STOREFRONT - CONTINUOUS - DAY

-- to the street. Pfefferberg looks a little shaken from the

experience. Schindler straightens his friend's clothes.

Well, then, Schindler can't imagine what could be wrong. He

pats Pfefferberg on the shoulder and leads him away.

INT. FACTORY FLOOR - DAY

The long tables accommodate most of workers. The rest eat

their lunch on the floor. Soup and bread.

INT. SCHINDLER'S OFFICE - SAME TIME - DAY

An elegant place setting for one. Meat, vegetables, glass of

wine, all untouched. Schindler leafing through pages of a

report Stern has prepared for him.

No chance of that. Satisfied, Schindler returns the report

to his accountant and starts to eat. Stern knows he is

excused, but looks like he wants to say something more; he

just doesn't know how to say it.

Schindler gives his accountant a long-suffering look.

Schindler's silence says, Is this really necessary? Stern

pretends it's a tacit okay, goes to the door and pokes his

head out.

An old man with one arm appears in the doorway and Schindler

glances to the ceiling, to heaven. As the man slowly makes

his way into the room, Schindler sees the bruises on his

face. And when he speaks, only half his mouth moves; the

other half is paralyzed.

Schindler shakes the man's hand perfunctorily and tells Stern

with a look, okay, that's enough, get him out of here.

Schindler is dying, and telling Stern with his eyes, Get

this guy out of here. Stern takes the man's arm.

They disappear out the door. Schindler sits down to his meal.

And tries to eat it.

EXT. FACTORY - DAY

Stern and Schindler emerge from the rear of the factory. The

Mercedes is waiting, the back door held open by a driver.

Climbing in --

Stern knows what he means. And Schindler knows he knows.

The driver closes the door.

EXT. GHETTO GATE - DAY

Snow on the ground and more coming down. A hundred of

Schindler's workers marching past the ghetto gate, as is the

custom, under armed guard. Turning onto Zablocie Street,

they're halted by an SS unit standing around some trucks.

EXT. ZABLOCIE STREET - DAY

Shovels scraping at snow. The marchers working to clear it

from the street. A dialog between one of the guards and an

SS officer is interrupted by a shot -- and the face of the

one-armed machinist falls into the frame.

INT. OFFICE, SS HEADQUARTERS - DAY

Herman Toffel, an SS contact of Schindler's who he actually

likes, sits behind his desk.

Schindler knows it's not Toffel's fault, but the whole

situation is maddening to him. He shakes his head in disgust.

Schindler gets up, shakes Toffel's hand, turns to leave.

Toffel nods, smiles.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

From a distance, Stern and Schindler slowly walk a wasteland

that lies between the rear of DEF and two other factories --

a radiator works and a box plant.

Stern's doing all the talking, in his usual quiet but

persuasive manner. Every so often, Schindler, glancing from

his own factory to the others, nods.

INT. SCHINDLER'S OFFICE - DAY

The party pins the two other German businessmen wear are

nothing compared to the elaborate thing in Schindler's lapel.

He sits at his desk sipping cognac, a large portrait of Hitler

hanging prominently on the wall behind him.

Stern, who has been keeping a low profile, hands the gentlemen

each a set of documents.

The man glances to Stern, and back to Schindler, his look

saying, This is wrong, having a Jew present while we discuss

business. If Schindler catches his meaning, he doesn't admit

it. Kuhnpast almost sighs.

There's a long stunned silence. The Germans can't believe

it. After the initial shock wears off, Kuhnpast has to laugh.

Nobody is kidding.

He sets it down, gets up. Hohne gets up. They return the

documents to Stern and turn to leave. They aren't quite out

the door when Schindler wonders out loud to Stern:

The businessmen slow, but don't look back into the room.

EXT. SCHERNER'S RESIDENCE - CRACOW - MORNING

Pfefferberg wipes a smudge from the hood of an otherwise

pristine BMW Cabriolet. As Scherner and his wife emerge from

their house in robes, Scherner whispers to himself --

EXT. KUHNPAST'S RADIATOR FACTORY - DAY

Workers high on the side of the building toss down the letters

of the radiator sign as others hoist up a big "D." Under

armed guard, others unload a metal press machine from a truck.

INT. RADIATOR FACTORY / DEF ANNEX - DAY

Technicians make adjustments to presses already in place.

Others test the new firing ovens. Kuhnpast is being forcibly

removed from the premises.

INT. GHETTO EMPLOYMENT OFFICE - DAY

Crowded beyond belief, the place is like a post office gone

mad. Stern, moving along one of the impossibly crowded lines,

pauses to speak with an elderly couple.

EXT. PEACE SQUARE - DAY

A hand slaps a blue sticker on a work card. Slap, another.

And another. And another.

INT. D.E.F. FRONT OFFICE - DAY

Christmas decorations. Klonowska at her desk, her eyes closed

tight.

She opens her eyes and smiles. Schindler is holding a poodle

in his arms. She comes around to kiss him. He sets the dog

on the desk. Stern, across the room, watches blank-faced.

Schindler, Stern and Klonowska turn to the voice. Two Gestapo

men have entered unannounced.

Schindler stares at them in disbelief. Stern quietly slips

one of the ledgers on his desk into a drawer.

He doesn't wait for their approval. He scribbles down some

names -- Toffel, Czurda, Reeder, Scherner. Underlining

Scherner, he glances to Klonowska. She understands.

INT. OFFICE, SS HEADQUARTERS, CRACOW - DAY

A humorless middle-level bureaucrat sits behind a desk and

D.E.F.'s ledgers and cashbooks.

The man slowly shakes his head 'no' to Schindler's offer of

a cigarette. Schindler tamps it against the crystal of his

gold watch.

Schindler lights the cigarette and drags on it, all but

ignoring the man.

The quiet matter-of-fact tone, more than the comment itself,

throws the bureaucrat off his rhythm. His eyes narrow

slightly. There's a long silence.

INT. HALLWAY/ROOM - SS HEADQUARTERS - DAY

The two who arrested him lead Schindler down a long hallway.

They reach a door, have him step inside and close the door

after him.

INT. SS "CELL" - EVENING

Schindler knocks on the inside of the door. A Waffen SS man

opens it. The "prisoner" peels several bills from a thick

wad.

He hands the young guard five times the going price.

The guard turns to leave.

He peels off several more bills and hands them over.

INT. SS "CELL" - MORNING

Perched on the side of the bed in pajamas, Schindler works

on a breakfast of herring and eggs, cheeses, rolls and coffee.

Someone has also brought him a newspaper. There's an

apologetic knock on the door before it opens.

INT. FOYER, SS HEADQUARTERS - MORNING

Schindler, the Gestapo clerk and one of the arresting officers

cross the foyer.

Schindler ignores the man completely. Reaching the front

doors, the clerk turns over the D.E.F. records to their owner

and offers his hand. Schindler lets it hang there.

EXT. D.E.F. FACTORY - DAY

A Gestapo limousine pulls in through the gates of the factory,

parks near the loading docks. The driver, the same SS officer,

waits for Schindler to climb out, but he doesn't; he waits

for the SS man to come around and open the door for him.

There are no less than forty able-bodied Jewish laborers

working on the docks, any one of which would be better suited

to the task. The Gestapo man calls to one of them.

The guy just stares. Finally he heads off with the ledgers.

The poodle bounds out past him and over to Schindler. He

gives the dog a pat on the head.

EXT. SCHINDLER'S BUILDING - EVENING

Elegantly dressed for a night out, Schindler and Klonowska

emerge from the building. As they're escorted to the waiting

car, Schindler hesitates. A nervous figure in the shadows of

an alcove is gesturing to him, beckoning him.

Schindler excuses himself. Klonowska watches as he joins the

man in the alcove. Their whispered conversation is over

quickly and the man hurries off.

EXT. PROKOCIM DEPOT - CRACOW - LATER - NIGHT

From the locomotive, looking back, the string of splattered

livestock carriages stretches into darkness. There's a lot

of activity on the platform.

Guards mill. Handcards piled with luggage trundle by.

People hand up children to others already in the cars and

climb aboard after them. The clerks are out in full force

with their lists and clipboards, reminding the travelers to

label their suitcases.

Climbing from his Mercedes, Schindler stares. He's heard of

this, but actually seeing the juxtaposition -- human and

cattle cars -- this is something else.

Recovering, he tells Klonowska to stay in the car and, moving

along the side of the train, calls Stern's name to the faces

peering out from behind the slats and barbed wire.

AN ENORMOUS LIST OF NAMES --

-- several pages-worth on a clipboard; a Gestapo clerk

methodically leafing through them.

The clerk shows him the list, points out the name to him.

Schindler pulls out a small notepad and drops his voice to a

hard murmur, the growl of a reasonable man who isn't ready --

yet -- to bring out his heavy guns:

As Schindler writes it down, the clerk has second thoughts

and calls to a superior, an SS sergeant, who comes over.

The sergeant takes a good hard look at the clothes, at the

pin, at the man wearing them.

The sergeant takes out a pad. Now all three of them have

lists. He jots down Schindler's name. Schindler jots down

his and flips the pad closed.

He walks away, back toward his car. The clerk and sergeant

smile. But slowly, slowly, the smiles sour at the possibility

that this man calmly walking away from them could somehow

arrange such a fate...

ALL THREE OF THEM --

-- Schindler, the clerk and the sergeant -- stride along the

side of the cars. Two of them are calling out loudly --

Soon it seems as if everybody except Schindler is yelling

out the name. As they reach the last few cars, the

accountant's face appears through the slats.

Guards yank at a lever, slide the gate open. Stern climbs

down. The clerk draws a line through his name on the list

and hands the clipboard to Schindler.

As Schindler signs three or four forms, the guards slide the

carriage gate closed. Those left inside seem grateful for

the extra space.

Schindler returns the clipboard. The sergeant motions to

another who motions to the engineer. As the train pulls out,

Stern tries to keep up with Schindler who's striding away.

Schindler silences him with a look. He's livid. Stern glances

down at the ground.

Schindler turns away and heads for the car. Stern hurries

after him. They pass an area where all the luggage, carefully

tagged, has been left -- the image becoming BLACK and WHITE.

EXT./INT. MECHANICS GARAGE - NIGHT

Mechanics' hood-lamps throw down pools of light through which

me wheel handcarts piled high with suitcases, briefcases,

steamer trunks -- BLACK and WHITE.

Moving along with one of the handcarts into a huge garage

past racks of clothes, each item tagged, past musical

instruments, furniture, paintings, against one wall --

children's toys, sorted by size.

The cart stops. A valise is handed to someone who dumps and

sorts the contents on a greasy table. The jewelry is taken

to another area, to a pit, one of two deep lubrication bays

filled with watches, bracelets, necklaces, candelabra,

Passover platters, gold in one, silver the other, and tossed

in.

At workbenches, four Jewish jewelers under SS guard sift and

sort and weigh and grade diamonds, pearls, pendants, brooches

children's rings -- faltering only once, when a uniformed

figure upends a box, spilling out gold teeth smeared with

blood -- the image saturating with COLOR.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

Fractured gravestones like broken teeth jut from the earth

of a neglected Jewish cemetery outside of town. Down the

road that runs alongside it comes a German staff car.

INT. STAFF CAR - MOVING - DAY

In the backseat, Untersturmfuhrer Amon Goeth pulls on a flask

of schnapps. His age and build are about that of Schindler's;

his face open and pleasant.

The other SS officers in the car -- Knude, Haase and Hujar --

aren't sure what he means. He's peering out the window at

the tombstones.

EXT. GHETTO - DAY

The staff car passes through the portals of the ghetto and

down the trolley lines of Lwowska Street.

INT. STAFF CAR - MOVING - DAY

As the car slowly cruises through the ghetto, Knude, like a

tour guide, briefs the new man, Goeth --

The look Goeth gives Knude tells him to refrain, if he would,

from offering tactical opinions.

EXT. PLASZOW FORCED LABOR SITE - DAY

Outside of town, a previously abandoned limestone quarry

lies nestled between two hills. The stone and brick buildings

look like they've been here forever; the wooden structures,

those that are up, are built of freshly-cut lumber.

There's a great deal of activity. New construction and

renovation -- foundations being poured, rail tracks being

laid, fences and watchtowers going up, heavy segments of

huts -- wall panels, eaves sections -- being dragged uphill

by teams of bescarved women like some ancient Egyptian

industry.

Goeth surveys the site from a knoll, clearly pleased with

it.

But then he's distracted by voices -- a man's, a woman's --

arguing down where some barracks are being erected.

The woman breaks off the dialog with a disgusted wave of her

hand and stalks back to a half-finished barracks. The man,

one from the car, Hujar, sees Goeth, Knude and Haase coming

down the hill and moves to meet them.

Goeth watches the woman moving around the shell of the

building, pointing, directing, telling the workers to take

it all down. He goes to take a closer look. She comes over.

Goeth considers the foundation as if he knew about such

things. He nods pensively. Then turns to Hujar.

It's hard to tell which is more stunned by the order, the

woman or Hujar. Both stare at Goeth in disbelief. He gives

her the reason along with a shrug --

Hujar unholsters his pistol but holds it limply at his side.

The workers become aware of what's happening and still their

hammers.

Goeth groans and takes the gun from him and puts it to the

woman's head. Calmly to her --

He fires. She crumples to the ground. He returns the gun to

his stunned inferior and, gesturing down at the body,

addresses the workers.

He turns and walks away.

EXT. STABLES - DAWN

Stable boys lead two horses into the pre-dawn light. The

animals' hoofs shatter tufts of weeds like fingers of glass;

fog plumes from their nostrils.

EXT. PARK, CRACOW - DAWN

In addition to the exhaust from idling trucks and the curling

smoke from the Sonderkommando units' cigarettes, there is

excitement in the chilly pre-dawn air.

EXT. GHETTO - DAWN

An empty street. Rooftops against a lightening sky. A few of

the windows in the buildings are lighted, glowing amber; the

majority are still dark.

EXT. STABLES - DAWN

The stable boys hoist saddles onto the horses, cinch the

straps. Leaning against the hood of the Mercedes, Schindler

and Ingrid, in long hacking jackets, riding breeches and

boots, share cognac from his flask.

EXT. PARK, CRACOW - DAWN

Untersturmfuhrer Goeth, soon to be Commandant Goeth, stands

before the assembled troops with a flask of cognac in his

hand. He looks out over them proudly; they're good boys,

these, the best. He addresses them --

EXT. PEACE SQUARE, GHETTO - DAWN

A fourteen year old kid hurries across to the square pulling

on his O.D. armband. Several others of the Jewish Ghetto

Police, Golberg among them, are already assembled there. The

clerks, the list makers, scissor open their folding tables,

set out their ink pads and stamps.

EXT. STABLES - DAWN

Ingrid climbs onto one of the horses, Schindler onto the

other. As the animals gallop away with their riders toward a

wood, the stable boys wave.

EXT. PARK, CRACOW - DAWN

The fresh young faces of the Sonderkommandos, listening to

their commander.

EXT. WOODS - DAWN

The horses panting hard. Their hoofs hammering at the ground,

climbing a hill. Riding boots kicking at their flanks.

EXT. PARK, CRACOW - DAWN

The boots of Amon Goeth slowly pacing. He stops. Tight on

his face, smiling pleasantly.

EXT. HILLTOP CLEARING - DAWN

The galloping horses break through to a clearing high on a

hill. The riders pull in the reins and the hoofs rip at the

earth.

Schindler smiles at the view, the beauty of it with the sun

just coming up. From here, all of Cracow can be seen in

striking relief, like a model of a town.

He can see the Vistula, the river that separates the ghetto

from Kazimierz; Wawel Castle, from where the National

Socialist Party's Hans Frank rules the Government General of

Poland; beyond it, the center of town.

He begins to notice refinements: the walls that define the

ghetto; Peace Square, the assembly of men and boys. He notices

a line of trucks rolling east across the Kosciuscko Bridge,

and another across the bridge at Podgorze, a third along

Zablocie Street, all angling in on the ghetto like spokes to

a hub.

EXT. GHETTO - DAY

The wheels of the last truck clear the portals at Lwowska

Street and the Sonderkommandos jump down.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDINGS - DAWN

Families are routed from their apartments. An appeal to be

allowed to pack is answered with a rifle butt; an unannounced

move to a desk drawer is countered with a shot.

EXT. STREETS, GHETTO - DAWN

Spilling out of the buildings, they're herded into lines

without regard to family consideration; some other

unfathomable system is at work here. The wailing protests of

a woman to join her husband's line are abruptly cut off by a

short burst of gunfire.

EXT. HILLTOP - DAWN

From here, the action down below seems staged, unreal; the

rifle bursts no louder than caps. Dismounting, Schindler

moves closer to the edge of the hill, curious.

His attention is drawn to a small distant figure, all in

red, at the rear of one of the many columns.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

Small red shoes against a forest of gleaming black boots. A

Waffen SS man occasionally corrects the little girl's drift,

fraternally it seems, nudging her gently back in line with

the barrel of his rifle. A volley of shots echoes from up

the street.

EXT. HILLTOP - DAWN

Schindler watches as the girl slowly wanders away unnoticed

by the SS. Against the grays of the buildings and street

she's like a moving red target.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

A truck thundering down the street obscures her for a moment.

Then she's moving past a pile of bodies, old people executed

in the street.

EXT. HILLTOP - DAWN

Schindler watches: she's so conspicuous, yet she keeps moving --

past crowds, past dogs, past trucks -- as though she were

invisible.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

Patients in white gowns, and doctors and nurses in white,

are herded out the doors of a convalescent hospital. The

small figure in red moves past them. Shots explode behind

her.

EXT. HILLTOP - DAWN

Short bursts of light flash throughout the ghetto like stars.

Schindler, fixated on the figure in red, loses sight of her

as she turns a corner.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAWN

She climbs the stairs. The building is empty. She steps inside

an apartment and moves through it. It's been ransacked. As

she crawls under the bed, the scene DRAINS of COLOR.

The gunfire outside sounds like firecrackers.

EXT. HILLTOP - NIGHT

NIGHT Silence. Schindler and Ingrid are gone.

Below, the ghetto lies like a void within the city, its

perimeter and interior clearly distinguishable by darkness.

Outside it, the lights of the rest of Cracow glimmer.

INT. D.E.F. FACTORY - NIGHT

Tables and tools and enamelware scrap. The metal presses and

lathes, still. The firing ovens, cold. The gauges at zero.

Against the wall of windows overlooking the empty factory

floor stands a figure, Schindler, in silhouette against the

glass, black against white, not moving, just staring down.

EXT. FOREST - PLASZOW - MORNING

Bloody wheelbarrows, stark against the tree line of a forest

above the completed forced labor camp, PLASZOW.

EXT. PLASZOW FORCED LABOR CAMP - MORNING

Names on lists. Names called out. Tight on faces.

Goldberg at one of several folding tables. The gangsterturned --

ghetto-cop is now the Lord of Lists inside Plaszow.

He and other listmakers call out names, accounting for those

thousands who survived the liquidation of the ghetto and now

stand before them in long straight rows.

INT. GOETH'S BEDROOM, PLASZOW - MORNING

Amon Goeth stirs, wakes, glances at the woman asleep beside

him. Hungover, he drags himself slowly out of bed.

EXT. GOETH'S BALCONY - MOMENTS LATER - MORNING

Goeth steps out onto the balcony in his undershirt and shorts

and peers out across the labor camp, his labor camp, his

kingdom. Satisfied with it, even amazed, he's reminiscent of

Schindler looking down on his kingdom, his factory, as he

loves to do, from his wall of glass.

Life is great. Goeth reaches for a rifle.

EXT. PLASZOW SAME TIME - MORNING

Workers loading quarry rock onto trolleys under Ukrainian

guard and a low morning sun. Every so often, one glances

with anticipation to the balcony of Goeth's "villa" -- which

is in fact nothing more than a two-story stone house perched

on a slight rise in the dry landscape.

EXT. GOETH'S BALCONY - CONTINUED - MORNING

The butt of the rifle against his shoulder, Goeth aims down

at the quarry -- at this worker, at that one --

indiscriminately, inscrutably. He fires a shot and a distant

figure falls.

INT. GOETH'S BEDROOM - SAME TIME - MORNING

The woman in bed groans at the echoing shot. She's used to

it but she still hates it; it's such an awful way to be woken.

She buries her head under a pillow. Goeth reappears. He pads

to his bathroom, goes inside and urinates.

EXT. PLASZOW - DAY

Schindler's Mercedes winds through the camp, past warehouses

and workshops, trucks full of furs and furniture, work

details, barracks, guard blocks. A man standing alone wears

a sign around his neck -- "I am a potato thief."

EXT. GOETH'S VILLA - PLASZOW - DAY

The Mercedes pulls in next to some other nice cars parked on

a driveway made of tombstones from the Jewish cemetery.

EXT. PATIO, GOETH'S VILLA - DAY

A patio table set with crystal, china, silver. Goeth and

Hujar are there, in pressed SS uniforms, and two

industrialists, Bosch and Madritsch. One chair is empty.

Hujar glances off, interrupted by Schindler's arrival.

Although he's never been here, the industrialist comes in

like he owns the place. All but Goeth rise.

He works his way around the table, patting Bosch and Madritsch

on the back -- he knows them -- shaking Hujar's hand, who he

doesn't know. He reaches Goeth.

Goeth takes a good long look at the handsomely dressed

entrepreneur and allows him to shake his hand.

Schindler takes a seat, shakes a napkin onto his lap, nods

to the servant holding out a bottle of champagne to him.

Goeth watches him. The others watch Goeth.

Schindler clearly doesn't care, but nods as though he did.

He drinks. Goeth just watches him with what seems to be

growing amusement. He nods to Hujar to continue.

Schindler laughs out loud, cutting Hujar off. Hujar glances

over to Goeth nonplussed.

He's not sorry at all, and starts in on the plate of food

that's set down in front of him.

Goeth slowly shakes his head no... then smiles.

He shrugs like, those are the breaks, too bad. Goeth just

smiles. The others watch the two of them, unsure how they're

supposed to react.

INT. GOETH'S OFFICE - PLASZOW - LATER - DAY

The others have gone. It's just Goeth and Schindler now.

Goeth pours glasses of cognac.

Schindler nods pensively, perhaps in agreement, perhaps at

some other thought. There's a silence, broken finally by --

His voice echoes into silence. An acquiescent shrug from

Goeth finally. And a nod; Schindler's right.

Schindler pours himself another shot from the bottle, nurses

it. He's in a foul mood. They study each other, trying to

determine perhaps who's more powerful. Eventually --

Goeth tries to put the situation in perspective:

Schindler admits it by not disagreeing. Goeth thinks about

it, nods to himself again, then frowns.

Goeth mulls it over, his shrug saying "maybe, maybe not." A

silence before --

There's the word Goeth was waiting to hear.

EXT. D.E.F. SUBCAMP SITE - DAY

An SS surveyor, with even paces, measures a distance of the

bare field adjacent to the factory. He sticks a little flag

into the ground.

EXT. D.E.F. SUBCAMP SITE - DAY

A watchtower, half-erected, the little flag still in the

ground. Laborers hammer at it while others roll out barbed

wire fencing. A surveyor supervises the placement of a post

and carefully measures its heights; it has to be nine feet,

exactly.

At a folding table in the middle of the field, Schindler

signs checks made out to the Construction Office, Plaszow --

requisitioning more lumber, cement and hardware.

EXT. CONSTRUCTION OFFICE, PLASZOW - DAY

Plaszow prisoners load the requisitioned building supplies --

the lumber, cement and hardware -- onto trucks.

EXT/INT. WAREHOUSE, CRACOW - DAY

The trucks parked not at Schindler's sub-camp, but at the

loading dock of Goeth's private warehouse in Cracow. Inside

the building can be glimpsed all kinds of Plaszow goods:

clothes, food, construction equipment, furniture.

Checkbook laid out on the hood of his Mercedes, Schindler

pays for the requested materials a second time -- this time

with a check made out to Amon Goeth personally -- and hands

it over to his bagman, Hujar.

EXT. D.E.F. SUBCAMP FIELD - DAY

Some SS architects groan over a set of blueprints. Schindler

and an SS officer walk by.

He shrugs, Too bad, what're you going to do? The SS guy has

to think. Yeah, that's a problem. Two huge leashed dogs yank

another SS man across their path.

EXT. D.E.F. - DAY

As five hundred Plaszow prisoners are marched back onto the

grounds of D.E.F., any hope they may have had of a more

lenient environment is quickly dashed. The place -- completed --

looks like a fortress: barbed-wire, towers, SS guards and

dogs.

INT. D.E.F. FACTORY - DAY

Where once they glimpsed the not too threatening figure of

Oskar Schindler strolling through the factory, the workers

who dare glance up now find armed guards moving past. And

further up, behind the wall of windows, Schindler moving

around, entertaining SS officer.

INT. GOETH'S VILLA - NIGHT

The Rosner brothers in evening clothes, Leo on accordion,

Henry on violin, playing a Strauss melody, trying to keep it

muted, inoffensive. Few of the guests pay attention, which

is fine with them. An SS officer chats with Schindler.

Schindler, with yet another girl on his arm, endures the

officer's lies while sweeping the room with his eyes.

Schindler looks at him for the first time, knowingly.

Schindler's girl excuses herself to get a drink.

Schindler nods, Done. Both watch his date across the room

getting a drink. As usual, she's the best-looking on there.

Whatever tolerance Schindler's had up to this point with

John leaves his face; the looks he gives him now is pure

contempt.

INT. GOETH'S VILLA - LATER - NIGHT

Goeth's girl tonight, a Pole, eighteen, nineteen, places a

hand on Schindler's sleeve. They're at the important end of

the large table with Goeth, along with Czurda and Leo John

and their girlfriends.

Everyone laughs.

Everybody laughs.

Another round of laughs, only this time it's forced.

Everybody knows it's true, but you don't say it out loud,

and Schindler knows better. Goeth gives him a look; they'll

talk later.

EXT. GOETH'S VILLA - LATER - NIGHT

Goeth finds Schindler alone outside smoking a cigarette.

Schindler acknowledges him, but that's about it. Finally --

Goeth heads back inside. Schindler stays outside, finishing

his cigarette.

EXT. PLASZOW - LATER - NIGHT

A folding table outside the prisoners' barracks. At it,

playing cards, two night sentries. A figure appears out of

the darkness. Schindler. He sets down on the table a fifth

of vodka.

EXT. BARRACKS - LATER - NIGHT

Stern, summoned from his barracks, watches as Schindler digs

through his coat pockets. Nearby, at the table, drinking

now, the sentries. From the hill, the villa, the Rosners'

music, faint, can be heard.

He discreetly hands over to the accountant some cigars

scavenged from the party. From another pocket, he retrieves

and hands over some tins of food -- all valuable commodities.

From another pocket, perhaps not so valuable, but then who

knows, a gold lighter. Regarding this last item --

Schindler shrugs, It's the least I can do. The two stand

around a moment more before Schindler shrugs again, Sorry I

can't do more. He reaches out, pats Stern on the shoulder,

and, turning to leave.

Schindler comes back, but, out of embarrassment or -- maybe

he wants to get back to the party -- waits with some

impatience for Stern to tell whatever it is he wants to tell

him.

Lowering his voice --

INT. METALWORKS - PLASZOW - DAY

Goeth moves through the crowded metalworks like a goodnatured

foreman, nodding to this worker, wishing that one a good

morning. He seems satisfied, even pleased, with the level of

production. Goldberg is with him. They reach a particular

bench, a particular worker, and Goeth smiles pleasantly.

Not daring to look up, all the worker sees of Goeth is the

starched cuff of his shirt.

The rabbi-turned-metalworker gestures with his head to a

pile of hinges on the floor. Goeth nods. And in a tone more

like a friend than anything else --

He shrugs apologetically and pulls out a pocket watch.

As Goeth times him, Rabbi Levartov works at making a hinge

as though his life depended on it -- which it does -- cutting

the pieces, wrenching them together, smoothing the edges,

all the while keeping count on his head of the seconds ticking

away.

He finishes and lets it fall onto the others on the floor.

Forty seconds.

Again the rabbi works feverishly -- cutting, crimping,

sanding, hearing the seconds ticking in his head -- and

finishing in thirty-five. Goeth nods, impressed.

He understands perfectly. So does Levartov; he has just

crafted his own death in exactly 75 seconds. Goeth stands

him against the workshop wall and adjusts his shoulders. He

pulls out his pistol, puts it to the rabbi's head and pulls

the trigger... click.

Annoyed, Goeth extracts the bullet-magazine, slaps it back

in and puts the barrel back to the man's head. He pulls the

trigger again... and again there's a click.

He slams the weapon across Levartov's face and the rabbi

slumps dazed to the floor. Looking up into Goeth's face, he

knows it's not over. As Goeth walks away --

EXT. BARRACKS - CONTINUED - NIGHT

Tight on Schindler, a pensive nod, then a shrug.

INT. D.E.F. - DAY

Rabbi Levartov, brought over to D.E.F., works at a table

with several others. As Schindler strolls by, the rabbi dares

to speak --

Schindler has to think a moment before he can figure out who

the grateful man is.

EXT. PLASZOW - DAY

A dead chicken dangling from Hujar's hand, evidence of some

kind. Goeth slowly pacing before a work detail of twenty or

so men standing still, silent, in a row.

No one confesses. Goeth nods, All right, takes a rifle from

a guard and shoots one of the workers at random. With this

added incentive, he waits for someone to tell him who stole

the chicken. No one does.

He shrugs, Okay, points the rifle at another worker -- and a

boy of fourteen, shuddering and weeping, steps out of line.

Goeth goes over to the boy, and, like a distant relative to

a small child, tries to get him to look at his face.

The boy nods, weeps, screams --

He's pointing at the dead man. And Goeth astonishes the entire

assembly of workers and guards by believing the boy.

He returns the rifle to the guard and walks away. Hujar stares

after him, then knowingly at the boy.

EXT. PLASZOW - DAY

A truck being loaded with supplies. Schindler signs for it

and, appearing as rushed as he always does, returns the

clipboard to Stern.

INT. D.E.F. - DAY

Schindler comes down the stairs with Klonowska. As they're

crossing through the factory --

INT. MECHANICS' GARAGE - PLASZOW - DAY

A mechanic peering under the hood of Goeth's Adler. Leaning

in he accidentally knocks a wrench off the radiator into the

fan and there's an awful clatter before the engine dies. The

mechanic glances up horrified.

EXT. GOETH'S VILLA - DAY

As servants hoist a heavy, elaborately tooled saddle from

Schindler's trunk - a gift for Goeth -- Schindler sees Stern

coming toward him and glances skyward long-sufferingly.

INT. D.E.F. - DAY

The mechanic, making adjustments to a metal press, glances

up as Schindler moves past.

EXT. D.E.F. FACTORY - DAY

Across the street stands a nervous young woman in a faded

dress. She seems to be trying to summon the courage to cross

over and onto the factory grounds.

INT. D.E.F. FACTORY - DAY

Just inside the factory, she waits as a guard telephones

Schindler's office. She can see the wall of windows from

where she's standing, and Schindler himself as he appears at

it, phone to his ear. He glances down at her disapprovingly

and the guard hangs up.

INT. APARTMENT - CRACOW - DAY

The woman alone in a dismal room pulling on nylon stockings.

At a mirror, she applies make-up. She slips into a provocative

dress. Puts on heels. A Parisian hat. And looks in the mirror.

INT. D.E.F. - DAY

Schindler waits for her on the landing of the stairs. He

doesn't recognize her, but smiles to counter the unfortunately

possibility she's some old girlfriend he's forgotten. Reaching

him, she offers her hand.

He can tell now she doesn't know him. He seems relieved. He

leads her past Klonowska's desk and into his office.

INT. SCHINDLER'S OFFICE - DAY

He arranges a chair for her, goes to his liquor cabinet.

He pours himself a drink, warms it in his hands, smiles,

clearly take with her.

The grace with which she's carried herself up to this point

seems to evaporate as she struggles to find the words she

wants.

Schindler's face changes like a wall going up, a mask of

indifference like in the portrait of Adolf Hitler on the

wall behind him.

Schindler glances away from her. He seems weary suddenly,

depressed.

Schindler glances back at her, his face hard, cold, and

studies her for a long, long moment before --

She stares at him, frightened and bewildered. She feels tears

welling up.

She hurries out.

INT. ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - PLASZOW - DAY

Schindler barges into Stern's office. In a foul and aggressive

mood, he dispenses with pleasantries in order to admonish

the accountant --

Stern has hardly had time to look up from the work on his

desk.

Stern's look is all innocence, but Schindler knows better.

Silence. Schindler tries to settle down. Then --

But it isn't Stern who needs convincing; it's Schindler

himself. It's doubtful he even realizes this, but it's clear

to Stern. Schindler sighs either at the predicament itself,

or at the fact that he's allowed Stern to place him right in

the middle of it. He turns to leave, hesitates. He conducts

a mental search for a name and eventually comes up with it:

He unstraps his watch, hands it to Stern.

He leaves.

EXT. BALCONY - GOETH'S VILLA - NIGHT

Distant music, Brahms' lullaby, from the Rosner Brothers way

down by the women's barracks calming the inhabitants. Up

here on the balcony, Schindler and Goeth, the latter so drunk

he can barely stand up, stare out over Goeth's dark kingdom.

It seems almost as though this temptation toward restraint,

this image Schindler has brush-stroked of the merciful

emperor, holds some appeal to Goeth. Perhaps, as he stares

out over his camp, he imagines himself in the role, wondering

what the power Schindler describes might feel like.

Eventually, he glances over drunkenly, and almost smiles.

EXT. STABLES - PLASZOW - DAY

A stable boy works to ready Goeth's horse before he arrives.

He sticks a bridle into its mouth, throws a riding blanket

onto its back, drags out the saddle Schindler bought Goeth.

Before he can finish, though, Goeth is there. The boy tries

to hide his panic; he knows others have been shot for less.

As Goeth waits, patiently it seems, whistling to himself,

the stable boy tries to mask his confusion.

EXT. PLASZOW - DAY

Goeth gallops around his great domain holding himself high

in the saddle. But everywhere he looks, it seems, he's

confronted with stoop-shouldered sloth. He forces himself to

smile benevolently.

INT. GOETH'S VILLA - DAY

Goeth comes into his bedroom sweating from his ride. A worker

with a pail and cloth appears in the bathroom doorway.

MORE TO THE FLOOR --

Goeth steps past him to take a look. The worker is almost

shaking, he's so terrified of the violent reprisal he expects

to receive.

The worker hasn't a defense for himself. Goeth's hand drifts

down as if by instinct to the gun in his holster. He stares

at the worker. He so wants to shoot him he can hardly stand

it, right here, right in the bathroom, put some more stains

on the porcelain. He takes a deep breath to calm himself.

Then gestures grandly.

The worker hurries out with his pail and cloth. Goeth just

stands there for several moments -- trying to feel the power

of emperors he's supposed to be feeling. But he doesn't feel

it. All he feels is stupid.

EXT. GOETH'S VILLA - MOMENTS LATER - DAY

The worker hurries across the dying lawn outside the villa.

He dares a glance back, and at that moment, a hand with a

gun appears out the bathroom window and fires.

EXT. BARRACKS, PLASZOW - NIGHT

The sentries at their little table again, drinking Schindler's

vodka. Nearby, Schindler and Stern outside Stern's barracks.

The accountant's tone is hushed:

STERN'S OFFICE, PLASZOW - DAY

Goldberg delivers a stack of requisitions and invoices, and

leaves without a word. Behind his desk, Stern takes a cursory

look at them and shakes his head in dismay.

INT. GOLDBERG'S OFFICE, PLASZOW - MINUTES LATER - DAY

Stern comes in with the requisitions. Now it's Goldberg's

turn to shake his head in dismay; he doesn't want to hear it --

LOADING DOCK, PLASZOW - DAY

Stern watches truck being unloaded of bags of flour, rice

and other supplies. Goeth nods to Hujar. Hujar calls a halt.

The workers climb down, close up the trucks. And, still half

full, the trucks rumble off.

EXT. CRACOW - DAY

The trucks at the loading dock of Goeth's private warehouse.

Polish workers, under Hujar's supervision, throwing down the

"surplus" bags of flour and rice -- the supplies for the

phantom 10,000 prisoners.

BARRACKS - CONTINUED - NIGHT

They can see Goeth's villa up on the hill; figures moving

around behind the windows. There's another party going on up

there. Down here, as he nurses a drink from his flask,

Schindler thinks about what Stern has told him, and eventually

shrugs, Fine, fuck him.

But Stern slowly shakes his head 'no.'

There's the irony -- bad as it is, evil as Goeth is, it could

get worse. Schindler understands.

He hands over to Stern some negotiable items and leaves.

INT. NIGHTCLUB - CRACOW - NIGHT

Schindler and Senior SS Officers Toffel and Scherner share a

table in same smoke-filled nightclub they met in.

Schindler glances away to the floor show, nods to himself.

Glancing back again, he considers the SS men with great

sobriety.

His thinly veiled threat of exposure escapes neither SS man.

The air seems thicker suddenly.

The threat still stands, despite Schindler's assurance

otherwise, and they all know it. So does Scherner's threat

back to him, and they all know that, too. But Schindler just

grins, and, glancing away --

INT. D.E.F. FACTORY - DAY

In addition to the mid-day soup and break, there are bowls

of fruit on the long work tables. At one of them, several

workers are debating which of them will go upstairs to thank

Schindler.

INT. UPSTAIRS OFFICES, D.E.F. - SAME TIME - DAY

In honor of Schindler's birthday, Goeth has brought over

Stern and the Rosners -- the musicians, at the moment,

accompanying the best baritone in the Ukrainian garrison.

Surrounded by his friends and lovers, Schindler cuts a cake.

He receives congratulations from the many SS men present and

the embraces, in turn, of Ingrid and Klonowska and Goeth.

From Stern he gets a handshake.

A Jewish girl from the shop floor is admitted and timidly

approaches the drunken group around Schindler. The SS men

consider her as a curiosity; Schindler, as he would any

beautiful girl. The music breaks and out of the silence comes

a small nervous voice:

She hesitates. She's surrounded by SS uniforms and swastikas

and holstered guns. Schindler smiles; this is a beautiful

girl.

He kisses her on the mouth. The smiles on the faces around

them strain. Stern glances to heaven. Amon cocks his head

like a confused dog. The kiss is broken, finally, and

Schindler smiles again with impunity.

The girl backs away nodding anxiously; all she wants now is

out before someone -- her, Schindler, both of them -- gets

shot. Henry Rosner nudges Leo and they begin another song.

And the party tries to resume.

EXT. APPELLPLATZ - PLASZOW - DAWN

Were they not asleep in their barracks, the prisoners would

no doubt shudder at the sight: the clerks are setting up

their folding tables.

Other figures move around the parade ground in the murky

dawn light: these raising a banner, those wheeling filing

cabinets across the Appellplatz, this one wiring a phonograph,

that one saturating a pad with ink from a bottle.

Goldberg, Lord of Lists, moves from table to table handing

out carbons of lists and sharing morning pleasantries with

the clerks.

Some men in white appear like ghosts. A doctor's kid is

opened, a stethoscope removed. Another cleans the lenses of

his glasses. Someone sharpens a pencil.

EXT. DEPOT - PLASZOW - DAWN

A trainman waving a lantern guides an engineer who's slowly

backing an empty cattle car along the tracks. It couples to

another empty slatted car with a harsh clank.

EXT. APPELLPLATZ - PLASZOW - DAY

The needle of the phonograph is set down on a pocked 78. The

first scratchy note of a Strauss waltz blare from the camp

speakers.

EXT. BALCONY - GOETH'S VILLA - DAY

In his undershirt and shorts Goeth calmly smokes his first

cigarette of the morning as he listens to the music wafting

up from down below.

Down there on the Appellplatz, the entire population of the

camp has been concentrated, some fifteen thousand prisoners.

EXT. APPELLPLATZ - PLASZOW - DAY

Though the music and banners struggle to evoke a country

fair, the presence of the doctors belie it. A sorting out

process is going on here, the healthy from the unhealthy.

A physician wipes at his brow with his handkerchief as several

prisoners run back and forth, naked, before him. He makes

his selections quickly: this one into this line, that one

into that, and Goldberg moves them recording the names.

Other groups of people run naked in front of other doctors

and clerks. Notations are made and lines are formed. The sun

beats down and the music lies.

EXT. DEPOT - PLASZOW - DAY

Some still pulling their clothes back on, the first wave of

the "unfit" is marched onto the platform. A guard slides

open the gate of a cattle car and this first unlucky group

climbs aboard.

EXT. APPELLPLATZ - PLASZOW - DAY

Behind the camouflage of other women prisoners, Mila

Pfefferberg rubs a beet against her cheeks in desperate hope

of adding a little color to her skin.

Amon Goeth, his shirtsleeves uncharacteristically rolled up,

chats with one of the doctors as another group strips.

Whether the topic is this Health Aktion or the unseasonable

weather is unclear, but he nods approvingly.

Goeth glances up, finds Poldek among the group taking off

their clothes. Pfefferberg appeals to him with a look that

asks, Do I really have to go through this, and Goeth turns

to a clerk.

Pfefferberg is motioned away from the others; he's okay, he

doesn't have to be put through this indignity. He calls out

to the Commandant again --

Goeth thinks about it a moment before he nods, Yeah, okay,

sure. A clerk accompanies Pfefferberg and, making a notation

on the way, finds Mila.

EXT. DEPOT - PLASZOW - DAY

The sun is higher, the cattle cars hotter. Prisoners' arms

stretch out between the slats offering diamonds in exchange

for a sip of water.

EXT. PLASZOW - LATER - DAY

The needle of the phonograph is set down on another record,

a children's song, "Mammi, kauf mir ein Pferdchen" (Mommy,

buy me a pony).

Children are yanked from the arms of their parents. Wailing

protests quickly escalate to brawls with the guards.

Revolvers and rifles aim at the sun and fire. Music, shots,

wails.

INT. BARRACKS - SAME TIME - DAY

Guards traipse through a deserted barracks peering up at the

rafters, pulling planks from the floor, upending cots, looking

for some children.

EXT. BARRACKS - SAME TIME - DAY

A small figure in red sprints across to another barracks,

past it, to a crude wooden structure beyond it.

INT. MEN'S LATRINES - SAME TIME - DAY

An arm held out to either side, the small girl lowers herself

into a pit into which men have defecated. She works her way

slowly down, trying to find knee and toeholds on the foul

walls, ignoring the flies invading her ears, her nostrils.

Reaching the surface of the muck she lets her feet submerge,

then her ankles, her shins, her knees, before finally

touching harder ground. As she struggles to slow her

breathing, her racing heart, she hears a hallucinatory murmur --

She sees eyes in the darkness; five other children are already

there.

EXT. DEPOT - PLASZOW - LATER - DAY

Waves of heat rise from the roofs of the long string of cattle

cars. Inside, those who "failed" the medical exams bake as

they wait for the last cars to be filled.

Schindler's Mercedes pulls up. He climbs out and stares

transfixed. He notices Goeth then, standing with the other

industrialists, Bosch and Madritsch, and strolls over to

them.

He glances away at the train. The idling engine only partially

covers the desperate pleas for water coming from inside the

slatted cars.

He grins. Schindler watches as another car is loaded. It's

like they're climbing into an oven.

Goeth stares at him blankly, then with a What-will-you-think-

of-next? kind of look, then laughs uproariously and calls

over to Hujar --

Hujar heard him, he just doesn't get it. Finally he turns to

another guy and tells him to do it.

STREAM OF WATER CASCADE onto the scalding rooftops. The fire

trucks are there, the hoses firing the cold water at the

cars on the people inside who are roaring their gratitude.

And amusing, not just to Goeth, but to the other SS officers

standing around as well. Oskar moves away to talk with one

of the firemen. At full extension, apparently the hoses still

only reach halfway down the long line of cars. He returns to

Goeth.

Goeth finds this especially sidesplitting, and hollers --

THE D.E.F. HOSES have arrived and are being coupled to

Plaszow's. As the water drenches the cars further back, the

people inside loudly voice their thanks, and the guards and

officers outside grin at the spectacle.

The joke takes on new dimension when, from the back of the

D.E.F. trucks, boxes of food are unloaded. Accompanied by

the laughter of the SS, Schindler moves along the string of

cars pushing sausages through the slats.

Goeth is almost hysterical. But slowly then, slowly, the

amusement on his face fades. His friend moving along the

cars bringing futile mercy to the doomed in front of countless

SS men, laughing or not, is not just behaving recklessly

here, it's as though he were possessed.

The water rains down on the last car.

EXT. D.E.F. - DAY

A German staff car pulls in across the factory gate, blocking

it. Two Gestapo men climb out.

INT. D.E.F. FACTORY - DAY

The girl who brought Schindler best wishes on his birthday

glances up from her work to the Gestapo crossing through the

factory. They climb the stairs to the upstairs offices and,

moments later, appear behind Schindler's wall of glass.

INT. SCHINDLER'S OFFICE - DAY

Schindler leaning against his desk, drink in his hand, calmly

tries to assess his humorless arresters.

Schindler glances beyond them to a point outside his office,

to Klonowska. She nods, she knows what to do, she'll make

the phone calls, call in the favors.

He snuffs out his cigarette.

INT. GESTAPO CAR - MOVING - DAY

Settled comfortably in the backseat, Schindler glances idly

out the window. As the car makes a turn, though, he looks

back. Apparently he expected it to turn the other way.

The guys up front don't answer. Concern, for the first time,

registers on Schindler's face. The car approaches a building

block long with an ominous sameness to the windows.

INT. MONTELUPICH PRISON - CRACOW - DAY

Schindler is made to empty his pockets, his money, cigarettes,

everything. Around him clerks speak in whispers, as if raised

voices might set off head-splitting echoes along the narrow

monotonous corridors.

INT. MONTELUPICH PRISON - DAY

He's led down a flight of stairs into a claustrophobic tunnel.

He's taken past darkened cells. Past shadowy figures crouched

in corners and on the floor.

INT. CELL, MONTELUPICH PRISON - DAY

A water bucket. A waste bucket. No windows. This is not a

cell for dignitaries; this arrest is different.

Schindler, incongruous with the dank surroundings in his

double-breasted suit, slowly paces back and forth before his

cellmate, a soldier who looks like he's been here forever,

his greatcoat pulled up around his ears for warmth.

Schindler forces a smile. His cellmate just stares. Now

there's a crime; much more impressive, much more serious,

than his own.

INT. OFFICE - MONTELUPICH PRISON - DAY

In a stiff-backed chair sits a very unlikely defender of

racial improprieties -- Amon Goeth. To an impassive SS colonel

behind a desk, Goeth tries to highlight extenuating

circumstances:

Goeth tries to read the guy behind the desk, but his face is

like a wall.

Goeth shifts in his chair; he knows he's not getting anywhere

with this guy. He switches tacts:

In the silence that follows, Goeth realizes he has made a

serious error in judgment. This man sitting soberly before

him is one of that rare breed -- the unbribable official.

Suddenly the man stands up and salutes, which thoroughly

confuses Goeth since Goeth is his inferior in rank. But he

isn't saluting Goeth, he's saluting the officer who has just

stepped into the room behind him.

The colonel sits back down. Scherner pulls up a chair next

to Goeth.

Scherner smiles and allows Goeth to shake his hand, but it's

clear, even to Goeth himself, that he has fallen from grace.

INT. GOETH'S VILLA - PLASZOW - NIGHT

A tall, thin, gray Waffen SS officer has a request for the

Rosner brothers.

He's drunk, morose; it seems unlikely he'll be on his feet

much longer. Indeed, as Henry and Leo Rosner begin the son --

an excessively melancholy tale in which a young man commits

suicide for love -- the field officer staggers over to a

chair in the corner of the crowded room and slumps into it.

Goeth laughs too loud, drawing a weary glance from Scherner.

Schindler smiles good-naturedly. He's out, a little worse

for wear perhaps, a little more subdued than usual. Taking

him away from the others, taking him into his confidence --

THE THIN GRAY SS OFFICER is back in front of the musicians,

swaying precariously, a drink in his hand --

Again they play the song. Again he staggers across the crowded

room to his chair in the corner, paying no attention to the

visiting Commandant from Treblinka or anybody else --

He shrugs like it's nothing, or with modesty, it's unclear.

Goeth is dully impressed; Schindler, only politely so.

AGAIN THE GRAY OFFICER wavering before Henry and Leo. This

time they don't wait for him to ask for it --

LEO ROSNER

"Gloomy Sunday" As the man stumbles back to his chair, the

Rosners not only play the song again, they play with it, and

him, this one somber man in the corner staring at them almost

gratefully, wrenching from the song all the sentimentality

they can, as if they could actually drive him to kill himself.

No one else in the room is aware of the exchange going on

between them -- this man and this music -- which the brothers

play as if it were an invocation. Eventually, though, someone

does become aware, if not of the intention, at least of the

repetition, and interrupts the spell --

The music falls apart. The brothers find Goeth in the crowd

looking at them like, Come on, for Christ's sake play

something else. Which they do -- defeated -- some innocuous

Von Suppe. Goeth turns back to one of his guests.

Glancing back, as they play, to the corner, the Rosners see

the gloomy SS officer getting slowly up from his chair. He

stands there for a moment, staring at nothing, then slowly

makes his way out onto the balcony where he stands in the

night air, absolutely still, in silhouette to the Rosners.

And, ruining a perfectly good party, he takes out a gun and

shoots himself in the head.

EXT. D.E.F. - DAY

From a distance, Schindler can be seen arguing with an SS

officer who's trying to hand him papers, orders of some kind,

which the irate industrialist refuses to accept.

Here, closer, carrying blankets and bundles, Schindler's

workers are marched under heavy guard out of the factory and

its annexes and across the fortified yard.

His people are being taken. Where, is unclear. Schindler

abruptly breaks off the discussion with the SS man, climbs

into his car and drives off.

EXT. FOREST - PLASZOW - LATER - DAY

A creek flowing gently through marshy ground under an umbrella

of trees. Leo John and his five year old son, on their knees

catching tadpoles, seem unaware of, or at least not distracted

by, a ghastly endeavor going on beyond them:

Bodies being exhumed out of the earth, out of the mass graves

in the forest. The dead lay everywhere, victims of the ghetto

massacre, victims of Plaszow.

Arriving, Schindler sees Goeth standing up at the tree line.

Approaching him, furious, he hesitates. He sees a wheelbarrow

trundled by Pfefferberg, a corpse in it. He fears the body

is Mila's, but then sees her trundling another barrow, another

corpse in it. Goeth calls to Schindler --

Goeth shakes his head, dismayed. Schindler joins him and

stares at a pyre of bodies built by masked and gagging

workers, layer upon layer.

It's always something. He glances off. The pyre has reached

the height of a man's shoulder. The workers move around it

dousing it with gasoline.

He sighs at the unfairness of it all, the dissolution of his

kingdom. His glance finds his man, Leo John, over at the

stream.

Tight on the gleeful boy with a tadpole in his hand. Behind

him, smoke from the pyre rises into the sky.

INT. D.E.F. FACTORY - NIGHT

Schindler, in silhouette against the wall of glass, stares

down at his deserted factory, his silent machines, the dark

empty spaces.

INT. SCHINDLER'S APARTMENT - DAY

Light pouring in through the windows. White sheets over the

furniture like shrouds over the dead. Schindler's personal

things are gone.

EXT. POLAND/CZECHOSLOVAKIA BORDER - EVENING

Schindler's Mercedes, the backseat piled high with suitcases.

A border guard returns his passport to him. The barrier is

lifted and he crosses into Czech countryside.

INT. SQUARE, BRINNLITZ, CZECHOSLOVAKIA - MORNING

A church in the main square of a sleepy hamlet. A priest and

his parishioners, including Emilie Schindler, emerging from

it, morning Mass over.

Some guys outside a bar/cafe, hanging gout, drinking, notice

the elegantly dressed gentleman outside the town's only hotel.

They recognize him. They come over.

Schindler, the clothes, the car, the suitcases, the great

difference between their respective stations in life.

Somehow their old ne'er-do-well friend has managed to do

quite well, and it amazes them.

Across the square, Emilie has noticed him; and he, her. But

neither makes a move toward the other. Finally she walks

away; which Schindler interprets correctly to mean, Yes,

check into the hotel. He tips the porter extravagantly and

turns back to the guys from the bar.

INT. BAR - BRINNLITZ - NIGHT

Except for the clothes of the working class clientele, the

scene is reminiscent of the SS nightclub in Cracow:

Schindler, the great entertainer, working his way around the

tables making sure everybody's got enough to drink, making

sure everybody's happy. A guy at a table with a girl gestures

him over.

He gestures to the bartender to refill his friend's and his

date's drinks, pats the guy on the shoulder and wanders over

to the next table.

The guy has to think; not because he doesn't know, but because

his old friend Oskar is so many things it's hard to know

which description to use. Finally --

INT. HOTEL ROOM - BRINNLITZ - NIGHT

A woman asleep in the bed. The girl from the bar. In his

robe, at the window, Schindler calmly smokes as he stares

out at the NIGHT

EXT. BRINNLITZ - DAWN

The town, off in the distance, nestled against the mountains.

The sun, just coming up. Closer, here, ramshackle structures,

a long abandoned factory of some kind.

Schindler, in leather riding gear, climbs down off a Moto-

Guzzi motorcycle. He slowly wanders around, peers in through

broken windows, wanders around some more.

Tight on his face, torn between conflicting choices, or

realizing there's no choice, or only one choice, and hating

it.

EXT. BALCONY, GOETH'S VILLA - PLASZOW - DAY

Schindler and Goeth on the balcony of the villa, drinking.

Goeth considers his friend, greatly puzzled. Below them lies

the camp, still operating, at least for now, until the

shipments can be arranged.

Goeth finds this whole line of reasoning impossible to

believe. He's sure Schindler's got something else going on

here he's not telling him.

Schindler admits it with a shrug.

Goeth studies him, searching for the real answer in his face.

He can't find it.

Goeth thinks about it in the silence. Then a slow nod to

himself. He's going to make some money out of this even if

he can't figure it out. He smiles.

THE KEYS OF A TYPEWRITER slapping a name onto a list -- 184

184 LEVARTOV -- the letters the size of buildings, the sound

as

loud as gunshots --

TIGHT ON THE FACE OF A MAN -- Rabbi Levartov -- the hinge-

maker

Goeth tried to kill with a faulty revolver --

THE KEYS HAMMER another name -- PERLMAN --

TIGHT ON TWO ELDERLY FACES -- a man, a woman -- the parents

of "Elsa Krause." IN HIS SMALL CLUTTERED PLASZOW OFFICE --

Stern transcribes D.E.F.workers' names from a Reich Labor

Office document to the list in his typewriter, Schindler's

List.

NAME -- A FACE -- NAME -- FACE -- NAME --

TIGHT ON SCHINDLER slowly pacing the six or seven steps

Stern's cramped office allows, nursing a drink.

THE KEYS typing PFEFFE- PFEFFERBERG'S face, tight. MILA'S

face, tight.

CURRENCY, hard Reichmarks, in a small valise. As Goeth looks

at it, he mumbles to himself --

MOVING DOWN THE LIST of names, forty, fifty. The sound of

the keys. Stern pulls the sheet out of the machine, rolls in

another, types a name.

EQUIPMENT BEING LOADED onto trucks outside Madritsch's Plaszow

factory.

Madritsch is shaking his head no' to Schindler's appeal to

make his own list, to get his workers out.

THE KEYS typing another name -- A FACE, a man, A FACE, a

woman, A FACE, a child --

COGNAC SPILLING into a glass. The glass coming up to

Schindler's mouth, hesitating there.

A NAME -- A FACE -- one of the original D.E.F. investors.

ANOTHER NAME -- ANOTHER FACE -- another of the Jewish

investors.

STERN GLANCES UP with a look that asks Schindler if he's

sure about this one. He is. The keys type SZERWITZ --

TIGHT ON THE FACE of the investor who stole from Schindler,

the one he threatened to have killed by the SS, and the faces

of his sons --

THREE OR FOUR PAGES of names next to the typewriter. Stern,

trying to count them, estimates --

THE TRUNK OF SCHINDLER'S MERCEDES yawning open. He takes a

small valise from it and heads for Goeth's villa.

THE KEYS typing ROSNER --

TIGHT ON Henry Rosner, the violinist. TIGHT ON his brother,

Leo, the accordionist.

SCHINDLER AND BOSCH, the other Plaszow industrialist. The

same appeal Schindler made to Madritsch; the same answer,

no.'

MOVING DOWN another page of names.

THE SOUND OF THE KEYS OVER the face of a boy, the "chicken

thief." Over THE FACE OF A GIRL, the one who hid in the pit

of excrement. Over the FACES we've never seen.

STERN RUNS HIS FINGER down the pages of names, trying to

count them more precisely.

BLACKJACK, dealt by GOETH. They're betting diamonds, he and

Schindler. A queen falls and Goeth groans his misfortune.

THE FACE OF Goeth's maid.

GOETH SWEEPS his hold card against the table, is thrown a

four, sweeps it again and gets a jack.

A NAME we don't recognize is typed.

A FACE we don't recognize.

INT. STERN'S OFFICE - PLASZOW - NIGHT

Schindler leafing through the page of names, counting them,

drinking, to the sound of the typewriter. Eventually, quietly

to himself --

Stern heard him and stops typing, glances over.

Stern resumes where he left off, but then hesitates again.

There's something he doesn't understand.

It doesn't sound right. And Schindler doesn't answer. He's

avoided telling Stern the details of the deal struck with

Goeth, and balks telling him now. Finally awkwardly --

Stern had no idea. And has no idea now what to say.

Schindler shrugs like it's no big deal, but Stern knows it

is.

Stern is really overcome by what this man is doing. What he

can't figure out is why. Silence. And then --

Stern turns back, does as he's told. Schindler drinks.

Nothing but the sound of the typewriter keys. And then nothing

at all. The page is done. The rest will die.

INT. TOWN COUNCIL HALL - BRINNLITZ - NIGHT

Schindler in front of a large assembly, party pin in his

lapel, as usual, imposing SS guards on either side of him.

He looks out over his audience, the citizens of Brinnlitz,

local government officials, many of them appearing bewildered

by him or the "situation" that has arisen.

His estranged wife is there. So are the guys he was drinking

with.

Everyone seems to breathe sighs of relief as if they've been

waiting for him to say this, to dispel the disturbing rumors

they've heard.

The noise begins, his audience's angry reaction. Raising

pitch of his own voice --

He barely gets it all out before the protests drown him out.

The uproar reaches such a clamoring level there's no point

in his continuing.

GOETH'S VILLA - PLASZOW - DAY

Goeth, at his writing desk, endures the bureaucratic tedium

of signing memoranda, transport orders, requisitions. He

comes to Schindler's list, initials each page and signs the

last with no more interest than the others. He hands the

whole stack of paperwork to Marcel Goldberg, Personnel Clerk,

Executor of Lists, Gangster.

INT. OFFICE, ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - PLASZOW - DAY

Goldberg has the signature page of the list in a typewriter.

He carefully aligns it and types his own name in a space

allowed by the bottom margin.

EXT. SCHINDLER'S BRINNLITZ FACTORY SITE - DAY

At a folding table in the middle of the field, Schindler

signs his name to Reich Main Office directives, Evacuation

Board and Department of Economy form, Armaments contracts.

Around him, the new camp is taking shape: Electric fences

are going up, watchtowers, barracks; shipments of heavy

equipment, huge Hilo machines, are being off-loaded from

flatbed train cars; SS engineers stand around frowning at

the lay of the land, some drainage problem no doubt.

EXT. DEPOT - PLASZOW - DAY

A train full of people destined for Auschwitz pulls away

from the platform. As Goldberg gathers his paperwork, a

prisoner approaches him.

He knows what the prisoner means and the prisoner knows he

knows. He means Schindler's List.

The prisoner knows that, too, and discreetly turns over to

Goldberg a couple of diamonds from the lining of his coat.

INT. GOLDBERG'S OFFICE - PLASZOW - NIGHT

Names on a notepad, the first few crossed out. Goldberg types

the next name onto a page of The List, squeezing it into the

upper margin, and crosses that one out on the pad.

He rolls the page down, types another name, tires of the

exacting task, tears the handwritten page of names from the

notepad, crumples it and throws it away.

EXT. BRINNLITZ - NIGHT

Schindler, on his way back to his hotel after a night of

drinking, is jumped by three guys, wrestled to the ground

and brutally kicked.

As the forms of his attackers move away, he catches a glimpse

of one of them -- his "friend" who admired his car when he

first arrived back in town.

INT. MECHANICS GARAGE - PLASZOW - DAY

Pfefferberg, his head under the hood of a German staff car,

adjusting the carburetor. Goldberg comes in.

Pfefferberg glances up from his work and studies the

blackmailing collaborator for a long moment.

Pfefferberg suddenly attacks him with the wrench in his hand,

beating him across the shoulders and head with it.

Goldberg goes down, tries to scramble away on his knees, the

blows coming down hard on his back.

He makes it outside the garage and runs.

EXT. DEPOT - PLASZOW - DAY

A cattle car is coupled to another, the pin dropped into

place. On the platform, clerks at folding tables shuffle

paper while others mill around with clipboards, calling out

names.

Thousands of prisoners on the platform, some climbing onto

strings of slatted cars on opposing tracks. Some already in

them, most standing in lines, changing lines, the end of one

virtually indistinguishable from the beginning of another.

Paperwork. Lists of names. Pens in hands checking them off.

Some bound for Brinnlitz, the rest for Auschwitz, if they

can be properly sorted from one another.

A boy is allowed to remain in a line with his father; his

mother is taken to another line composed of women and girls.

This segregation is the only recognizable process going on;

the others, if they exist, are apparent only to the clerks

and guards, and maybe not even to them. It is chaos.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

A train snakes across the dark landscape.

INT. CATTLE CAR - MOVING - NIGHT

Stern, wedged into a corner of an impossibly crowded car.

This train may be headed for Schindler's hometown, but it is

no more comfortable than the others on their way to Auschwitz --

Birkenau.

EXT. CROSSING - POLAND - DAY

The train idles at a crossing in the middle of nowhere.

Moving across the faces peering out from between the slats,

it becomes apparent there are only male prisoners aboard.

Below, on a dirt road, a lone Polish boy stands watching.

Just before an empty train roars past from the other direction

obscuring him, his hand comes up and across his neck making

the gesture of a throat being slit.

EXT. DEPOT - BRINNLITZ - DAY

The train pulls into the small quiet Brinnlitz station. The

doors are opened and the prisoners begin climbing down. At

the far end of the platform, flanked by several SS guards,

stands Schindler. To his customary elegant attire he has

added a careless accouterment, a Tyrolean hat.

EXT. BRINNLITZ - DAY

Leading a procession of nine hundred male Jewish "criminals"

through the center of town, Schindler ignores the angry taunts

and denouncements and the occasional rock hurled by the good

citizens of Brinnlitz lining the streets.

INT. BRINNLITZ MUNITIONS FACTORY - DAY

Under the towering Hilo machines, a meal of soup and bread

awaits the workers. As they're sitting down to it, Schindler

addresses them --

He sees Stern among the workers, smiles almost imperceptibly,

turns and walks away.

EXT. RURAL POLAND - DAY

A train backs slowly along the tracks toward an arched

gatehouse. The women inside the cattle cars don't need a

sign to tell them where they are, they've seen this place in

nightmares. Pillars of dark smoke rise from the stacks into

the sky.

It's Auschwitz.

EXT. AUSCHWITZ - DAY

The stunned women climb down from the railcars onto an immense

concourse bisecting the already infamous camp. As they're

marched across the muddy yard by guards carrying truncheons,

Mila Pfefferberg stares at the place. It' so big, like a

city, only one in which the inhabitants reside strictly

temporarily. To Mila, under her breath --

So often terrified by the sight of a clerk with a clipboard,

it is the absence of clerks which unsettles the woman now,

as though there remains no further reason to record their

names.

Mila's eyes return to the constant smoke rising beyond the

birch trees at the settlement's western end.

INT. OFFICES - BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

Schindler comes out of his office and, passing Stern's desk,

mumbles --

Before Stern can react, Schindler is out the door.

EXT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - MOMENTS LATER - DAY

As he strides across the factory courtyard toward his

motorcycle, Schindler is intercepted by some Gestapo men who

have just emerged from their car.

The looks on their faces tell him he's not going anywhere.

These guys are serious.

EXT. AUSCHWITZ - DAY

A young silver-haired doctor moves slowly along rows of

Schindler's women, considering each with a pleasant smile

even as he makes his selections, with tiny gestures, for the

death chambers. He pauses in front of one.

She could lie, and he'd have killed her for it. She could

tell the truth, and he'd have her killed for that, too.

The doctor nods pensively, understandingly, it seems. Then --

He glances around hopelessly. One of the SS guards who

accompanied the women from Plaszow speaks up --

The doctor nods again as if the information were valuable,

as if it meant something to him. It doesn't.

He smiles to himself and gets on with the "examination,"

this woman to this line, this other one to that.

INT. CELL - SS PRISON, BRESLAU - DAY

In a dank cell, in uniform, Amon Goeth waits. Schindler is

on his way, hopefully. Maybe he's already here. Schindler

will vouch for him. Schindler will straighten this out.

INT. SS PRISON, BRESLAU - DAY

In a large room, Schindler sits before a panel of twelve

sober Bureau V investigators and a judge of the SS court.

INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

In Schindler's absence, the workers attempt to operate the

unfamiliar machines, to figure out the unfamiliar process of

manufacturing artillery shells. There's movement, there's

noise, the machines are running, but little is being produced.

Untersturmfuhrer Jose Liepold, the Commandant of Schindler's

new subcamp, moves through the factory conducting an impromptu

inspection. He points out to a guard a kid no more nine,

sorting casings at a work table, and another boy, ten or

eleven, carrying a box.

EXT. BARRACKS - AUSCHWITZ - NIGHT

Mila and another woman cross back toward their barracks

carrying a large heavy pot of broth. Not more than a hundred

meters away stand the birch trees and crematoria, the smoke

pluming even now, at NIGHT out of the darkness appear

"apparitions," skeletal figures which surround the two women,

or rather the soup pot between them, dipping little metal

cups into it, over and over.

Too startled to speak, Mila can only stare. The apparitions

clamor around the pot a moment more, than furtively slip

back into the same darkness from which they came. Mila and

the other woman exchange a glance. The pot is empty.

INT. HOSS' HOUSE - AUSCHWITZ - NIGHT

In his en, over cognac, Auschwitz Commandant Rudolf Hoss

considers the documents Schindler has brought: the list, the

travel papers, the Evacuation Board authorization. Hoss nods

at them, then at Schindler.

Schindler seems to think about the offer as he nurses his

drink. It's "tempting."

The ones on the list in Hoss' hand. Silence. Then:

Why, because you get to know them? Because you begin to see

them as human beings? Schindler suddenly has the awful feeling

that the women are already dead. Hoss misinterprets the look.

EXT. CONCOURSE - AUSCHWITZ - DAY

A large assembly of women. Guards calling out names from a

list. As each woman steps out of line, a guard unceremoniously

brushes a swathe of red paint across her clothes. New columns

are formed.

EXT. TRAIN YARD - AUSCHWITZ - DAY

Schindler, standing at the end of the platform stone-faced,

watches the women whose names he is "stuck on," whose clothes

are slashed with red paint, climbing onto the cattle cars.

As the cars fill, a train on another track arrives. The

"fresh" ones Schindler turned down. As the gates are closed

on the women's cars, the gates of the others are opened and

the people spill out.

A horrified cry suddenly breaks through the noise of the

engines. One of Schindler's women, locked in, has seen her

son among those coming down off the train on the opposing

track.

Another cry erupts, and another, another, as the women spot

their children, confiscated from the Brinnlitz factory,

brought here.

Schindler becomes aware of what's happening and, passing

over other children, tries to corral these particular boys,

many of whom have noticed their mothers now and are echoing

their tortured cries with their own.

Schindler manages to gather them together, the fifteen or

twenty boys, and, in the middle of the crowded platform,

appears to a guard:

He points across to the women's train, then down to the boys.

The guard glances from the frantic gentleman to the anxious

brook around him. These are essential workers?

Schindler is nodding his head, trying to think. The women

are shrieking their sons' names. The guard, who heard it

all, every excuse imaginable, is just turning away when

Schindler thrusts his smallest finger at him.

The guard stares at him dumbly. This he hasn't heard.

EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - DAY

Like a mirage in the distance they appear -- the women, the

children, guards, Schindler, marching across a field toward

the factory.

At the perimeter of the camp, at the wire, the men watch the

approaching procession. It appears to them that the women

are covered in blood -- or -- could it be paint? They're

walking, they're fine, some are even smiling.

Liepold isn't smiling. Neither is Schindler; at least not on

the outside.

INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

The machines are silent, the people are not. Women are in

their husbands' arms, sons in their fathers'. There's food

on the tables but it's largely ignored, the reunion taking

precedence.

INT. SS MESS HALL - SAME TIME - DAY

Schindler stands before the assembled camp guards. They are

seated at the long tables, their food getting cold, waiting

for him to say whatever it is he has to say.

His eyes meet Liepold's, hold his icy stare, then return to

the guards, most of whom look like tired middle-aged

reservists.

As he steps away he gestures to some kitchen workers. They

tear open cases of schnapps and begin setting the bottles

out on the tables.

INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

Schindler strolls through his factory looking over the

shoulders of the workers, nodding his approval. The place is

in full operation, finally; the people, having figured out

the complicated Hilos, turning out shells by the caseload.

Schindler pauses at one of the machines.

Schindler nods. Then frowns. He leans down and taps at the

crystal of one of the gauges.

The worker kneels down, takes a look. It looks right to him.

Reaching over, Schindler changes the calibration of the

machine with a cavalier adjustment to a knob -- and all the

gauge readings shift.

He wanders off. The worker stares after him. He's just screwed

up settings that took weeks to get right.

Schindler comes up to another worker, Levartov, the

hingemaker.

He's at a machine buffing shells.

Schindler nods, watches him work, eventually glances away.

Levartov, following Schindler's gaze, nods uncertainly.

Levartov just stares. It's been years since he's been allowed,

indeed inclined, to perform Sabbath rites.

Schindler heads off. The rabbi keeps staring. Schindler

gestures back to him, offering casually --

Levartov looks around. Finally, he hangs up his goggles and

follows after Schindler.

INT. WORKERS BARRACKS - NIGHT

Under the shadow of a watchtower, among the roof-high tiers

of bunks strung with laundry, Levartov recites Kiddush over

a cup of wine to workers gathered around him.

INT. GUARDS BARRACKS - NIGHT

On their bunks, the guards relax with schnapps, cards and

magazines. One of them becomes distracted by a distant sound.

Some of the others begin to hear it.

Conversations cease. The barracks gradually becomes quiet,

silent, all the guards straining to hear. It sounds like...

singing. It sounds like Yiddish singing.

EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - SAME TIME - NIGHT

On a watchtower, a night sentry, unsure where it's coming

from, listens to the distant singing. It seems like it's

emanating from the surrounding hills, from the trees.

INT. LIEPOLD'S QUARTERS - SAME TIME - NIGHT

At his small desk, Liepold is typing a letter, denouncing

Schindler most likely. The pounding keys bury all other sounds

but when he pauses to reread what he's typed, he hears it,

the singing, faint, far away. He goes to his window, peers

out, listens for a moment more, then hears nothing.

Only the night creatures.

INT. APATMENT BUILDING - BRINNLITZ - NIGHT

The door to an apartment opens from the inside revealing

Emilie Schindler. She coolly considers the visitor on her

doorstep, her estranged husband, looking great as usual,

bottle of wine in his hand, smiling as if nothing is wrong

between them, as if nothing is wrong in the entire world.

INT. EMILIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The two of them at the kitchen table in a modest apartment,

drinking, at least he is. He's trying to ask her something,

but he's not sure how to put it, he wants to get it right.

Finally the words just tumble out --

There, he's said it. But the bewildered look on Emilie's

face wonders, That's what was hard for you to say?

She's the only woman he's even known who could make him

nervous just sitting across a table from him, saying nothing.

His voice trails off. A shrug adds, What do you think? She

doesn't answer, but she does love him. He loves her, too.

It really is a shame they're not right for each other and

never will be.

INT. OFFICES - BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

Stern glances up from his work; Schindler and Emilie have

come in and are walking toward the accountant's desk. He

gets up.

Like the doormen and waiters of Cracow, Stern too never

imagined Schindler was married and has trouble hiding his

astonishment now. He extends his hand to her.

It sounds strange to Stern hearing Schindler actually say

it.

He's never said it before.

He's not sure what she's going to do there, she's not a nurse

or a doctor.

Schindler nods, looks around, shrugs, offers his arm to his

wife, perhaps to take her on a tour of the place.

The Schindlers leave. Stern sits back down at his desk and

smiles. He's never seen Schindler so uncomfortable.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

Schindler comes in carrying a radio. He sets it down on a

bench where Pfefferberg's working on the frame of a machine

motor with a blow torch.

He leaves. Pfefferberg plugs it into an outlet and switches

it on. It works perfectly. A waltz.

INT. BARRACKS - BRINNLITZ CAMP - NIGHT

In a male barracks, a group of workers including Pfefferberg

huddle in a corner around the radio, straining to hear through

heavy static a broadcast by the BBC, the Voice of London, a

sketchy report of an Eastern offensive by Allied Russian

forces.

INT. CLINIC - BRINNLITZ CAMP - DAY

As a camp doctor attends to sufferers of dysentery, Schindler

and Emilie sort pairs of prescription glasses from a parcel,

shipped from Cracow. Stern comes in.

Schindler sifts through the glasses still in the box, comes

up with a particular pair and holds them proudly. Not quite

sure what he's seeing is real --

Stern allows himself a smile, a rare thing for him.

Schindler carefully slips the new glasses onto the

accountant's face. He looks around the clinic, Stern,

eventually settling on Emilie, crystal clear, standing near

a picture on the wall which, in other circumstances, he'd

find less than reassuring: Jesus, his heart exposed and in

flames.

INT. CLINIC - LATER - DAY

In a quiet corner of the clinic, Schindler concentrates on

the disquieting news Stern has brought him:

Schindler nods soberly. Then dismisses the problem with a

shrug.

But Stern is worried about it.

Stern slowly shakes his head 'no.'

Schindler eventually nods, in agreement it seems.

Stern's not sure he sees the logic. Whether the shells are

manufactured here or elsewhere, they'll still eventually

reach their intended destination, into the hearts and heads

of Germany's enemies.

That's another difference. The main one. The only one

Schindler cares about. Silence. Then:

INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

A nineteen year old boy with his hands in the air stands

terrified before Commandant Liepold and the revolver he

wields. Workers, trying to reduce the likelihood of getting

hit by a stray bullet when Liepold fires on the boy -- which

seems a certainty -- scramble out of the way.

Liepold swings the gun around at the voice, pointing it for

a moment at Schindler, who is striding toward him, then aims

the barrel back at the boy's head, and yells --

He waves a document at Schindler, throws it at him.

Schindler doesn't bother picking it up. Instead, pointing at

the boy, he yells to Liepold --

Liepold is so startled by the command, he doesn't shoot. He

doesn't lower the gun, though, either.

His finger is on the trigger, Liepold is torn, frustrated,

hating the situation he has created. As the moments without

a blast stretch out, both and Schindler begin to settle down.

Schindler glances to the boy. Then at the silent Hilo beside

him. Part of it is blackened from an electrical fire. To the

boy, concerned --

The boy, too terrified to speak, nods.

Liepold glances to him. He seems almost distraught by the

destruction of the machine, Schindler.

Liepold isn't sure that's correct, but he has no

documentation, at least not on him, to refute it.

INT. FACTORY - NIGHT

In the machine-tool section, a "judicial table" has been set

up. At it sit Schindler, Liepold, two other SS officers, and

an attractive German girl, a stenographer. The "saboteur,"

the boy, Janek, stands before the court.

Commandant Liepold was watching me trying to figure it out.

I switched it on and it blew up. I didn't do anything. All I

did was turn it on.

Gone tonight is Schindler's usual shop-floor familiarity. He

studies the boy solemn-faced.

Schindler dismisses the defensive comment with a wave of his

hand and gets up. He comes around and paces slowly before

the boy. Eventually, Janek dares to speak again --

Schindler glances up at him distractedly.

Schindler stops, looks to the panel, and back to the boy.

Schindler slams the back of his hand so hard across Janek's

face, the boy almost falls. He's stunned. So are the others

at the table. They've never seen such violence from the

Direktor. He roars --

Schindler's hand comes up again and Janek recoils, expecting

another blow. Schindler manages to hold it.

A guard escorts the prisoner away. The panel members glance

among themselves. Is that it? Schindler faces them and groans

in dismay.

INT. LIEPOLD'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

Liepold at his desk, typing again. This time there is no

doubt he is composing a letter denouncing Schindler.

INT. HOUSE - BRINNLITZ - NIGHT

Schindler and Emilie, her arm in his, stand around like

unwanted guests at the party. They probably are. Him anyway.

The other guests include local politicians who fought and

failed to keep his camp out of Brinnlitz.

Whenever his glance meets one of theirs, they smile tightly.

It's not at all nice. He feels out of place, a feeling he's

not accustomed to. Fortunately, a man in uniform, someone

Schindler can relate to, approaches cheerfully, his hand

outstretched.

The man lives well.

She nods. Schindler goes off in search of the bartender.

Rasch watches after him.

INT. RASCH'S STUDY - LATER - NIGHT

Rasch and Schindler sharing cognac in the privacy of the

Police Chief's study. Beyond the closed doors, the party

continues, the sounds filtering in.

Rasch calmly nurses his drink, his eyes revealing nothing of

what's going on behind them, except that the statement

requires some elaboration.

Rasch smiles faintly. Yes, he's familiar, as are officials

throughout much of Europe, with the gratitude of Oskar

Schindler.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - BRINNLITZ CAMP - NIGHT

Poldek Pfefferberg holds up a pistol, feels its weight, points

it.

Pfefferberg smiles, lowers the gun, kneels beside an open

crate of weapons: a couple of revolvers and rifles, an old

carbine.

INT. FACTORY - DAY

From high above the factory, Stern can be seen among the

machines talking with a worker. The man points up and returns

to his work.

Stern stares up, puzzled. He locates a ladder that connects

the shop-floor to a series of overhead planks and, with

trepidation, climbs.

He reaches a shaky landing high above the machines, navigates

the primitive catwalks with great care, comes to a large

water tank near the workshop ceiling.

Above the rim of the tank, amid rising steam, Schindler's

head appears. Then disappears. Stern climbs a set of rungs

on the tank, reaches the top and finds inside, lolling in

the steaming water, Schindler and the blonde stenographer

from the trial.

Neither Schindler nor the blonde seems the least bit

embarrassed. Only Stern. He tries hard to pretend the girl

isn't there, but he just can't.

Schindler floats over closer to him, waits for him to report

whatever it is he has come to report, leans closer. Finally,

quietly --

Schindler thinks long and hard...

Silence except for the gently lapping water. Half-joking --

Stern glances away, doesn't answer, just stares off. And a

slight, slight smile, a gambler's philosophical smile upon

being purged of his wealth, appears on Schindler's face.

EXT. RURAL BRINNLITZ - DAY

In the distance, a lone boxcar, stark against the winter

landscape. There are patches of snow on the ground. A cold

wind blows through bare trees.

INT. MACHINE SHOP - BRINNLITZ CAMP - DAY

Tight on Poldek Pfefferberg's eyes behind a welder's mask.

He turns from his work to the voice, welding torch in his

hand.

EXT. RURAL BRINNLITZ - DAY

The torch firing at ice as hard as metal, blue flame, white

steam. Pfefferberg's eyes behind the mask again,

concentrating.

Around the abandoned boxcar, in the gruesome cold, stand

Schindler, Emilie, a doctor, some workers and some SS guards,

watching, waiting.

Pfefferberg steps back. Sledge hammers pound at locks.

Hands pull at levers. The doors begin to slide.

Out of darkness, from inside the boxcar as the doors slide

open, Schindler's face is revealed, tight. He stares for an

interminable moment before walking slowly away.

Inside the boxcar is a tangle of limbs, a pyramid of corpses,

frozen white.

From a distance, a tableau: the boxcar, the workers and guards

and Emilie outside it, Schindler, off to himself several

steps away, all of them still as statues.

EXT. CATHOLIC CEMETERY - OUTSIDE BRINNLITZ - DAY

Beyond a country church, among the stone markers of a small

cemetery, walk Schindler and a priest.

The priest nods; he seems relatively empathic. He offers an

alternative --

The priest knows that. But he also knows that the provisions

of Canon Law regarding who can and cannot be buried in

consecrated ground are narrow.

INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

In a corner of the factory, workers hammer at pine lumber.

They are building coffins.

EXT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

As workers harness horses to carts, others hoist the coffins

into them. Schindler is there, watching. He glances up at

one of the guard towers, expecting, perhaps, to be felled by

a bullet.

EXT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

Beyond the wire, Rabbi Levartov leads the horse-drawn carts.

Around him walk a minyan -- a quorum of ten males necessary

for the rite. A few guards lag behind.

INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - SAME TIME - DAY

Work continues, but it's apparent in their eyes they are

only physically here; in spirit they are all walking alongside

the carts, one great moral force.

The roar of a machine suddenly, inexplicably, dies. Then

another. And another. Schindler, standing at the main power

panel, pulls the last of the switches, and the factory plunges

into absolute silence.

EXT. CATHOLIC CEMETERY - DAY

Just beyond the perimeter of the Catholic cemetery, the minyan

quickly and quietly recites Kaddish over the dead as their

coffins are lowered into individual graves.

Then, there is only a low breathing of wind.

EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - ANOTHER DAY

Amon Goeth, in civilian clothes, emerges from a car. His

eyes, sallow from inadequate sleep, sweep across the fortified

compound with envy. It's a nice place Oskar's got here.

INT. OFFICE - BRINNLITZ FACTORY - SAME TIME - DAY

Stern, at a window, stares down at Goeth beside his car.

Softly, gravely --

Schindler appears beside Stern, glances down. He's lost

weight, Goeth. The old suit he wears seems too big for him.

Alone down there he seems disoriented.

INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

Workers glance up at a horrible apparition from the pit of

their foulest dreams -- Amon Goeth crossing through the

factory.

Schindler, his arm around the killer's shoulder as if he

were a long lost brother, leads him across the shop-floor,

proudly pointing out to him the huge thundering Hilo machines.

INT. OFFICES, BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

Schindler takes an old suitcase from his office closet, sets

it on his desk, snaps it open revealing clothes, Goeth's

uniforms, his medals. The ex-Oberstrumfuhrer touches the

fabric gently, then glances up gratefully to his friend.

INT. OUTER OFFICES - BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

Beyond the frosted glass of Schindler's office door, Stern

can see the wavering forms of the two Nazi Party members

sharing cognac and stories.

INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - DAY

Warmed by cognac and friendship, Goeth comes through the

factory again carrying the suitcase, Schindler at his side,

steering him to some degree.

Goeth's hand comes up to his cheek as if to brush away a

bothersome fly. But it isn't a fly. One of the workers has

spit on him. He turns in disbelief.

Silence as his hand drops to his side, to the holster he

forgets isn't there. He glances around for SS guards... who

aren't there. He looks to Schindler, thoroughly confused,

and whispers --

Goeth stares at him bewildered. Then again at the worker who

spit. Then at other workers, the resolve in their eyes.

They know he has no power here, and sense he has no power

anywhere. His own eyes drift to a woman with yarn in her

lap, knitting needles in her hands. Is this a dream?

Schindler good-naturedly throws an arm around Goeth's shoulder

and leads him away. The workers watch as the two Germans

disappear out the factory doors.

INT. GUARDS' BARRACKS - EVENING

A guard slowly turns the dial of a radio, finding and losing

in static several different voices in several languages,

none of them lasting more than a moment.

Depression hangs over the barracks. Most of the guards are

straining to hear the news they've been fearing for some

time now, some on their bunks just staring, one at a window

peering out at the black face of a forest as if expecting,

at any moment, to see Russian or American troops appear.

INT. WORKER'S BARRACKS - SAME TIME - EVENING

Another radio. Workers, like the guards, straining to hear.

The dial finds, faint, mired in static, the idiosyncratic

voice of Winston Churchill.

INT. LIEPOLD'S QUARTERS - SAME TIME - EVENING

Schindler on Liepold's doorstep. The two men considering

each other across the threshold. Radio static filters out

from Liepold's room. The word "Eisenhower" cuts through before

the speaker's voice is buried again.

He turns and walks away.

INT. BRINNLITZ FACTORY - NIGHT

All twelve hundred workers and all the guards are gathered

for the first time on the factory floor. Tension and

uncertainty surround them. It's ominously quiet. Then --

It is not his intention to elicit celebration. Indeed, his

words, echoing and fading in the factory, echo the doubts

they all feel.

Not by Untersturmfuhrer Liepold. He stands with his men,

dying to lift his rifle and fire.

He's looking at the guards, thanking them, which thoroughly

confuses the workers. Just when they thought they knew where

his sentiments lay, he's thanking guards.

Or is he attempting to adjust reality, to destroy the SS as

combatants, to alter the self-image of both the guards and

the prisoners? Moving across the SS men's faces, they remain

inscrutable. Schindler turns his attention back to the

workers, and, not at all like a confession, but rather like

simple statements of fact:

That worries the workers. Whenever he leaves, something

terrible always seems to happen.

In the quiet, in the silence, drifting slowly across the

faces of the workers -- the elderly, the lame, teenagers,

wives beside husbands, children beside their parents, families

together -- it becomes clear, if it wasn't before, that both

as a prison and a manufacturing enterprise, the Brinnlitz

camp has been one long sustained confidence game.

Schindler has never stood still so long in his life. He does

now, though, framed by his giant Hilo machines, silent at

the close of the noisiest of wars, his head bowed, mourning

the many dead.

When he finally does look up he sees that he is the last to

do so. The faces, few of which he recognizes, are all looking

at him. He turns to speak to the guards along the wall again.

Apprehension spreads across the factory like a wave.

Pfefferberg tightens his grip on the pistol under his coat.

His ragtag irregulars do the same, the rest of their ersatz

"arsenal" concealed behind a machine. To the guards:

The guards hold their weapons, as they have from the moment

they arrived here tonight, at attention, waiting it seems,

to be given the official order from their Commander, Liepold,

who appears ready to give it.

Long, long silence. Finally, one of the guards slowly lowers

his rifle, breaks ranks and walks away. Then another. And

another. And another. Another.

When the last is gone, the workers consider Liepold. He

appears more an oddity than a threat. He is more an oddity

than a threat. And he knows it. He turns and leaves.

EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - NIGHT

A watchtower. Abandoned. The perimeter wire. No sentries.

The guard barracks. Deserted. The SS is long gone.

EXT. COURTYARD - BRINNLITZ CAMP - NIGHT

Schindler and Emilie emerge from his quarters, each carrying

a small suitcase. In the dark, some distance away from his

Mercedes, stand all twelve hundred workers. As Schindler and

his wife cross the courtyard to the car, Stern and Levartov

approach. The rabbi hands him some papers.

Schindler sees a list of signatures beginning below the

typewritten text and continuing for several pages. He pockets

it, this new list of names.

Stern steps forward and places a ring in Schindler's hand.

It's a gold band, like a wedding ring. Schindler notices an

inscription inside it.

Schindler slips the ring onto a finger, admires it a moment,

nods his thanks, then seems to withdraw.

Stern isn't sure he heard right. Schindler steps away from

him, from his wife, from the car, from the workers.

He can't.

Schindler starts to lose it, the tears coming. Stern, too.

The look on Schindler's face as his eyes sweep across the

faces of the workers is one of apology, begging them to

forgive him for not doing more.

He rips the elaborate Hakenkreus, the swastika, from his

lapel and holds it out to Stern pathetically.

He completely breaks down, weeping convulsively, the emotion

he's been holding in for years spilling out, the guilt

consuming him.

From above, from a watchtower, Stern can be seen down below,

trying to comfort Schindler. Eventually, they separate, and

Schindler and Emilie climb into the Mercedes. It slowly pulls

out through the gates of the camp. And drives away.

EXT. BRINNLITZ - NIGHT

A panzer emerges from the treeline well beyond the wire of

the camp and just sits there growling like a beast. Suddenly

it fires a shell at nothing in particular, at the night --

an exhibition of random spite -- then turns around and rolls

back into the forest.

EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - SAME TIME - NIGHT

From a watchtower, a couple of workers, having witnessed the

tank's display of impotent might, can make little sense of

it. Below, many of the workers mill around the yard, waiting

to be liberated. No one seems to know what else to do.

EXT. BRINNLITZ - DAY

Some Czech partisans emerge from the forest. They come down

the hill and casually approach the camp. Reaching the wire,

they're met by Pfefferberg and some other workers, rifles

slung over their shoulders. Through the fence --

The partisan shrugs, Suit yourself, and wanders back toward

the trees with his friends.

EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - NIGHT

Five headlights appear out of the night, five motorcycles

marked with the SS Death's-head insignia. They turn onto the

road leading to the camp gate and park, the riders shutting

off the engines.

Shapes materialize out of the darkness within the camp.

Several armed and dangerous Jews.

EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - LATER - NIGHT

As the cyclists fill their tanks with gasoline borrowed from

the camp, the workers keep their rifles pointed at them. The

NCO in charge lines the gas cans neatly back up against the

wire.

He climbs onto his motorcycle. The others climb onto theirs.

And drive away.

EXT. BRINNLITZ CAMP - DAWN

A lone Russian officer on horseback, tattered coat, rope for

reins, emerges from the forest. As he draws nearer, it becomes

apparent to the workers assembling on the camp yard, that

the horse is a mere pony, the Russian's feet in stirrups

nearly touching the ground beneath the animal's skinny

abdomen.

He reaches the camp, climbs easily down from the horse and,

in a loud voice, addresses the hundreds of workers standing

at the fence:

This is it? This one man? The workers wait for him to say

more. He waits for them to move, to leave, to go home. Finally --

A few of the workers come out from behind the fence to talk

with him.

The Russian has to think. Eventually he shrugs, 'no,' not

that he saw, and climbs back onto his pony to leave.

He shrugs and gives his little horse a kick in the ribs.

The Russian looks confused, glances off. The quiet hamlet of

Brinnlitz sits there against the mountains not half a mile

away.

Of course it is. But the idea that they could simply walk

over there is completely foreign to them. The Russian rides

away.

EXT. BRINNLITZ - DAY

All twelve hundred of them, a great moving crowd coming

forward, crosses the land laying between the camp, behind

them, and the town, in front of them.

Tight on the FACE of one of the MEN.

Tight on TYPEWRITER KEYS rapping his NAME.

Tight on A PEN scratching out the words, "METAL POLISHER" on

a form.

Tight on the KEYS typing, "TEACHER." Tight on his FACE in

the crowd.

Tight on the face of a woman in the moving crowd. The keys

typing her name. The pen scratching out "LATHE OPERATOR."

The keys typing "PHYSICIAN." Tight on her face.

Tight on a man's face. His name. Pen scratching out

"ELECTRICIAN." Keys typing "MUSICIAN." His face.

A woman's face. Name. Pen scratching out "MACHINIST." Keys

typing "MERCHANT." Face.

"CARPENTER." Face. "SECRETARY." Face. "DRAFTSMAN." Face.

"PAINTER." Face. "JOURNALIST." Face. "NURSE." Face.

"JUDGE." Face. Face. Face. Face.

EXT. FRANKFURT - DUSK (1955)

A street of apartment buildings in a working class

neighborhood of the city.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DUSK

The door to a modest apartment opens revealing Oskar

Schindler. The elegant clothes are gone but the familiar

smile remains.

It's Poldek Pfefferberg out in the hall.

Things don't look so great. Schindler isn't penniless, but

he's not far from it, living alone in the one room behind

him.

Pfefferberg waits out in the hall as Schindler disappears

inside for a minute. The legend below appears:

AMON GOETH WAS ARRESTED AGAIN, WHILE A PATIENT IN AN

SANITARIUM AT BAD TOLZ. GIVING THE NATIONAL SOCIALIST SALUTE,

HE WAS HANGED IN CRACOW FOR CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY.

Schindler reappears wearing a coat, steps out into the hall,

forgets something, turns around and goes back in.

OSKAR SCHINDLER FAILED AT SEVERAL BUSINESSES, AND MARRIAGE,

AFTER THE WAR IN 1958, HE WAS DECLARED A RIGHTEOUS PERSON BY

THE COUNCIL OF THE YAD VASHEM IN JERUSALEM, AND INVITED TO

PLANT A TREE IN THE AVENUE OF THE RIGHTEOUS. IT GROWS THERE

STILL.

He comes back out with a nice bottle of wine in his hand,

and, as he and Pfefferberg disappear down the stairs together --

Their voices face. Against the empty hallway appears a faint

trace of the image of the factory workers, through the wire,

walking away from the Brinnlitz camp. And the legend:

THERE ARE FEWER THAN FIVE THOUSAND JEWS LEFT ALIVE IN POLAND

TODAY. THERE ARE MORE THAN SIX THOUSAND DESCENDANTS OF THE

SCHINDLER JEWS.

