FADE IN

Behind the main title and the credits:

EXT. PLAINS COUNTRY - CLOSE SHOT - MOVING JUST ABOVE GROUND

LEVEL - A STUDY OF HOOFPRINTS - LATE AFTERNOON

The hoofprints are deeply etched in the ground, picking their

way through scrubby desert growth. An occasional tumbleweed

drifts with the light breeze across the pattern of prints;

and lightly-blown soil and sand begin the work of erasing

them. The CAMERA FOLLOWING the hoofprints

RAISES SLOWLY TO:

EXT. PLAINS COUNTRY - LONG SHOT - LATE AFTERNOON

We see the rider now. BACK TO CAMERA, jogging slowly along --

heading down a long valley toward a still-distant ranch house

with its outlying barn and corrals.

EXT. PLAINS COUNTRY - MED. SHOT - MOVING - LATE AFTERNOON

The CAMERA FRAMES and MOVES with the lone horseman. He is

ETHAN EDWARDS, a man as hard as the country he is crossing.

Ethan is in his forties, with a three-day stubble of beard.

Dust is caked in the lines of his face and powders his

clothing. He wears a long Confederate overcoat, torn at one

pocket, patched and clumsily stitched at the elbows.

His trousers are a faded blue with an off-color stripe down

the legs where once there had been the yellow stripes of the

Yankee cavalry. His saddle is Mexican and across it he carries

a folded serape in place of the Texas poncho...

Rider and horse have come a long way. The CAMERA HOLDS and

PANS the rider past and we see another detail; strapped onto

his saddle roll is a sabre and scabbard with a gray silk

sash wrapped around it... Horse and rider pass, moving closer

to the ranch as a little girl and a small dog come tearing

around the corner of the house.

EXT. THE YARD OF THE EDWARDS RANCH - MED. SHOT - DEBBIE -

LATE AFTERNOON

She is staring wide-eyed at the distant horseman o.s.

Her little dog has seen him too and is barking excitedly.

DEBBIE quickly reaches to grab the dog by the scruff of the

neck, crouching over him. Debbie is 11 years old with a

piquant, memorable face.

EXT. THE YARD - CLOSE SHOT - DEBBIE

Here we must establish and dramatize what it is about her

face that is memorable, so that if we were to see her again

five or six years later, we would know it is she -- perhaps

the eye color or the slant of eyebrow, or a trick of

scratching bridge of nose with crooked forefinger.

EXT. THE EDWARDS HOUSE - MED. SHOT - AARON - LATE AFTERNOON

The ranch house is of adobe, solidly built, with a sod and

cross-timbered roof, deep windows. A small gallery or porch

extends across the front. AARON EDWARDS comes through the

door, attracted by the dog's barking -- and then he, too,

sees the approaching horseman and comes farther out -- curious

but not at all apprehensive. Aaron is a lean, weathered and

tired man, with a down-swept mustache; a gentler-looking man

than Ethan and possibly a few years older.

As he squints off, studying the rider, his older daughter,

LUCY, comes out to stand behind him. Lucy is from 16 to 18 --

a pleasant, feminine girl. She is carrying a mixing bowl

with some sort of batter in it, which she now completely

forgets to whip in her interest in the approaching stranger.

In the next instant MARTHA EDWARDS follows the daughter onto

the porch. Martha is a still-lovely woman, although the years

have etched fine wrinkles about her eyes and mouth, and work

has worn and coarsened her hands. Those hands will never be

idle when Martha is on scene... And now, while she shares

the family's interest in the approaching horseman, she

automatically notes that Lucy has forgotten her task -- and

she takes the mixing bowl from her and stirs the batter.

EXT. YARD OF THE EDWARDS HOUSE - FULL SHOT - LATE AFTERNOON

Along the side of the house comes BEN EDWARDS, 14, with a

man-sized armload of chunkwood clutched to his chest. He,

too, has spotted the stranger and is all attention. So much

so that he trips, but recovers his footing. He pauses to

dump the wood into a woodbox by the door -- his eyes always

riveted on the oncoming rider -- and then he moves toward

the others, biting a splinter out of a finger. Beyond Ben,

MARTIN PAULEY emerges from the barn and crosses the open

ground heading toward CAMERA. Martin is somewhat under 20, a

lithe, perfectly coordinated male animal, with Indian-straight

hair and a white man's eyes. He is carrying bridle or other

horse-gear. He looks to the family on the porch -- to see if

they recognize the stranger -- then out again. He continues,

followed by Ben, toward where

Debbie crouches over her dog.

EXT. PLAINS COUNTRY - LONG SHOT - ETHAN - LATE AFTERNOON

As he rides downslope toward the house.

THE CREDITS END.

EXT. THE EDWARDS RANCH - MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTHA, LUCY, AND

AARON - LATE AFTERNOON

Suddenly, Martha's eyes widen as she -- even before Aaron --

recognizes the distant rider. Her hand goes to her mouth to

check the name that trembles on her lips... An instant later

Aaron, too, identifies the oncoming horseman.

He looks at her, frowning, then slowly steps out onto the

hard ground. Martha hands the bowl back to Lucy and follows

Aaron.

EXT. THE YARD OF THE EDWARDS HOUSE - FULL SHOT - THE GROUP

as Ethan rides in and sits his horse, looking down at them.

There is a noticeable constraint on all of them. Finally:

His eyes shift to Martha and hold. Ethan is, and always has

been, in love with his brother's wife and she with him.

Ethan slowly, stiffly swings out of the saddle. Aaron and

Martha exchange quick glances... troubled, puzzled. Aaron

pastes on an uncertain smile as Ethan comes around his horse

toward their side.

He goes to his saddle pack, begins unlacing it. Ben and Debbie

have inched closer -- half-shy, half-curious.

Debbie's dog begins sniffing at his heels. Ethan looks down

at them - not unfriendly, just a man not used to children.

Ben nods.

Ethan looks in the direction of the pointing finger.

EXT. YARD - ANOTHER ANGLE

as Lucy steps down from the porch and approaches.

EXT. YARD - FULL SHOT - ANOTHER ANGLE

as Martin -- with slightly averted face -- crosses to take

the bridle of Ethan's horse and lead him away.

Martin checks his stride, stares in surprise.

Again, he starts to lead away.

Martin stops again.

He completes unlacing the pack and takes it -- treating it

as though it contained something of value. Martin watches

with a touch of resentment: Ethan doesn't trust him.

Ethan turns and sees the look. He doesn't care what Martin

thinks, nor does he explain. Martin leads the horse off.

He hesitates, then grudgingly surrenders it -- conscious of

its sorry condition.

He just nods, then turns to follow Aaron around the side of

the house toward the wash-up.

EXT. THE EDWARDS HOUSE - CLOSE SHOT - MARTHA

She stands alone, looking after Ethan -- his coat in her

arms. She holds it against her breast for just a moment and

her eyes are tender.

INT. EDWARDS HOUSE - FULL SHOT - NIGHT

The family is finishing dinner -- and the scene is not quite,

but almost, a still-life. Loud in the room is the pendulum

tick of a Seth-Thomas clock on the mantel above the fireplace --

in which logs are burning briskly. Ben crouches near the

fireplace, fascinatedly examining the scabbard and sabre

Ethan has brought home from the wars.

He tries to ease the blade just a bit out of its scabbard.

Aaron sits at one end of the hand-hewn table, Martha at the

other. At her right is Ethan, his fork scraping the last

crumb off his plate. Lucy sits at her father's right and

Martin at his left. Next to Martin is Debbie. In the center

of the table is the sorry remnant of what was once a meal.

Lucy and Martin have finished eating. Aaron is sipping his

coffee, and Martha -- her own plate largely untasted -- is

watching Ethan.

Ethan has shaved, changed his shirt. He straightens

contentedly and every eye is on him, expectantly.

The clock rattles alarmingly -- the usual preliminary to its

striking; and then it bangs out the strokes like a fire-alarm

gong. Eight fast clangs.

Martin nods and crosses to kiss Martha good night.

Ethan doesn't like being called Uncle -- as we must know

from the quick look he shoots at Martin. But he acknowledges

it.

Ben reluctantly puts the scabbard away, turns to Ethan.

As Ben reluctantly heads out with Martin, Deborah crosses to

Ethan's side and studies him gravely.

Ethan looks at her gravely.

He crosses to where his pack is -- a side table or something --

and burrows into it. Debbie is at his side.

It is a gold medal or medallion -- something appropriate to

Maximilian of Mexico -- suspended by a long multi-colored

satin ribbon.

She holds it high for mother -- and all -- to see. Martha

takes it and reacts at its weight.

Martha reluctantly surrenders it to Debbie's eager hand.

Aaron hasn't missed the word "Mexico" and looks sharply at

Ethan.

The two girls leave the main room. Martha and Aaron both

look at Ethan -- half expecting some further explanation.

He turns from them and looks into the fire. Martha begins to

clear the table. Aaron gets up, takes a pipe and a spill --

lights it at the fire.

Ethan turns and looks at her -- still busy with her dishes.

Martha freezes in what she's doing -- listening.

Ethan can't answer, but he takes it as a challenge and almost

welcomes it.

Martha resumes her activity. Ethan crosses to his pack,

reaches into it for a leather pouch, brings it back and tosses

it onto the table. It lands with a resonant clink.

Both Martha and Aaron draw close to the table.

(NOTE TO WINTON HOCH: This scene should be dramatically back-

lighted.)

He opens a waistline shirt button and hauls out a leather

money belt and drops that on the table.

He reaches into the belt and takes out a few mint-fresh gold

pieces which he slides across the table.

Martha picks up one of the gold pieces, staring at the face

on the coin: the same as that on the medal -- staring sharply

then at Ethan. Aaron is examining another coin with a

different interest.

He glances questioningly at Ethan.

Aaron shrugs and crosses to a barrel chair. He raises the

seat and lifts out a pair of old boots, some rags of clothing

and then raises a false-bottom lid and drops pouch and money

belt into it. Carefully he replaces everything. During this

Ethan's attention has gone to Martha's hand, to one cut

finger, its wound barely healed. He takes the hand -- gently.

She nods and withdraws the hand.

She looks quickly at him and self-consciously tries to hide

her hands, conscious of their work-worn appearance.

Then for a moment their eyes meet and hold -- and a world of

sadness and hopelessness is in the look.

Aaron closes the seat of the barrel chair.

He picks up one of the lamps and starts away toward their

bedroom door. Martha looks at Ethan again. His expression is

bitter.

She turns obediently and follows Aaron. Ethan looks after

them and waits as Aaron opens the bedroom door. Martha goes

into it and Aaron follows and closes the door.

Ethan crosses to the lamp on the mantel, blows it out.

Only the firelight strikes his face as he stares broodingly

at the closed bedroom door.

OMITTED

EXT. YARD OF THE EDWARDS' HOUSE - FAINT DAWN LIGHT

Debbie's dog is barking excitedly as six horsemen slowly

ride toward the house and dismount. A lamp goes on inside.

THE SIX HORSEMEN ARE:

CAPTAIN, THE REVEREND SAM CLAYTON, a big man with frosty

blue eyes, graying hair, a bristly full mustache and the air

of grave and resolute authority. He is a minister of the

Gospel with a .44 on his hip.

LARS JORGENSEN, the Edwards' neighbor, is a harried little

man, Scandinavian. As we shall find out soon, he has a brisk

and buxom wife and a rather astonishing brood of children.

BRAD JORGENSEN is one of these: sandy-haired, brash, amiable,

impulsive. He is in his early twenties.

CHARLIE MacCORRY, slightly older than Brad, is Sergeant of

Company A of the Rangers. (He is also Company A.) Charlie is

a taciturn, gently-spoken, competent man, clearly patterned

by his association with Captain, the Rev. Sam.

MOSE HARPER is an old scout -- a walking bone-rack, yet

capable of tireless feats of endurance. Some think him

"tetched" yet he has managed to endure to his age during a

time and in a region where few men lived to see their

grandchildren. He wears a ragged dark overcoat in all weather,

a narrow-brimmed hat with a feather in its band.

ED NESBY is a rancher and homesteader in his mid-thirties;

resolute, honest, self-effacing; nothing picturesque or

dramatic about him; just a solid citizen and a realist.

16-A

INT. EDWARDS' HOME - CLOSE SHOT - MARTHA

She is at the window of her bedroom, wrapper clutched with

one hand, lamp upraised in the other as she stares into the

dawn to see who these callers are. We hear the heavy foot-

falls of the approaching men, then a loud knock thrice

repeated -- an ominous sound.

OMITTED

17-A

INT. THE EDWARDS' - ANGLE AT DOOR

The door is opened by Aaron -- holding a lamp and a gun. He

is only partly dressed -- pants, boots, undershirt. The bar

of light slashes across the faces of Sam and some of the men

behind him.

INT. THE EDWARDS' HOUSE - FULL SHOT

Jorgensen enters -- an angry little man -- closely followed

by Mose Harper, who is grinning foolishly.

Mose spots Martha and at once whips off his hat and makes

her an exaggerated cavalier's bow.

Ed Nesby enters.

She heads for the stove.

His eyes brighten as he looks toward the fire and spots a

rocking chair. He shuffles toward it, plants himself and

begins rocking and half-crooning to himself.

The front door opens to admit Martin, fully dressed and armed,

with Charlie MacCorry.

Martin ranges himself next to Aaron and both face Clayton.

Martha sets out cups on the table, begins pouring the coffee.

During the swearing-in, Ethan will enter the room from the

inner door -- unnoticed by the other men, but not by Martha.

And as the scene plays, the audience must always be conscious

of the by-play of glances between Martha and Ethan as they

face the prospect of being left in this house together.

But Ethan advances and calmly appropriates the cup Clayton

is reaching for...

Clayton marks his surprise.

Ethan sips his coffee and doesn't answer.

Martha has left the room briefly to fetch Aaron's shirt and

vest and stands behind him. Aaron drains his cup.

Ethan -- cup to his lips -- looks over its rim at Martha as

Aaron starts to put on his shirt. Their eyes meet briefly,

then she looks away. Ethan sloshes the dregs of his cup into

the fire -- some of it spattering Mose.

Martha stands submissively, with her head bent, eyes averted

as Ethan crosses the room to get his coat, guns, etc. Aaron

follows him.

Martha waits -- intent.

He looks past him then -- at Martha and then at Aaron.

He looks at Martha again... and then strides out.

EXT. THE EDWARDS' HOUSE -- DAWN LIGHT

As Ethan emerges he is brought to a momentary halt by sight

of a couple -- Brad and Lucy -- in each other's arms, standing

near the saddled horses of the posse. Clayton and Jorgensen

following him out, spot the couple, who now belatedly are

conscious of their audience.

In confusion, Lucy runs back around the side of the house as

Brad -- unrepentant -- grins at his irascible old man and

heads for his waiting horse. Clayton chuckles and turns toward

Martha, who has followed them out.

Mose, last to emerge, bows elaborately to Martha.

The men are mounting. Mose nimbly vaults onto the back of

his horse -- which he rides bareback, with only a blanket

pad.

AND

OMITTED

EXT. THE EDWARDS' HOUSE -- DAWN LIGHT

as Ethan and Martin ride to join the group.

She comes flying out of the house in her long flannel nightie

and runs to Martin.

He swings her up in front of his saddle. They start away.

Ethan is last to ride out. He is watching Martha. He brings

a gloved hand up in a salute. She starts to raise her hand

but only brings it just above her waist, a fluttering gesture

with tremulous fingers. It is the last he will ever see of

her alive.

EXT. YARD OF THE EDWARDS' HOUSE - FULL SHOT

as the posse slowly rides out, with Ethan last. Martin reins

in to let Debbie slip to the ground. Ethan passes her.

Debbie stands watching the men ride away, waving at them.

She turns and comes running back -- CAMERA PANNING -- to the

little group on the porch; Ben in the door; Lucy crossing

the porch; Aaron and Martha at the steps.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - POSSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Ethan and Mose are advancing at a steady walk, both men

leaning slightly out of their saddles to study the terrain --

the trail they are following. Out to one side -- fifty yards

distant -- is the main body of the posse: Sam, Jorgensen,

Charlie, Ed, moving roughly parallel to Ethan but at a faster

clip. Martin comes riding in toward Ethan from behind CAMERA.

Ethan reins in -- compressing his lips at the "Uncle."

Mose waits.

Mose lets out a snickering laugh.

He breaks and all turn at a distant hail from Jorgensen.

OMITTED

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - LONG SHOT - RISE OF GROUND - BRAD

He is holding his rifle with both hands straight over his

head -- and he repeats the signal until he sees they have

seen him.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - THE POSSE WITH BRAD IN

THE DISTANCE

as Jorgensen digs spurs and leads the way. The other riders

follow.

MED. SHOT - BRAD - RISING GROUND - LATE AFTERNOON

He waits grimly until he sees them coming, then wheels his

mount and takes off over the hill.

FULL SHOT - THE POSSE

as it comes up the rise and the men rein in on the crest.

Jorgensen stares and his face mirrors shock and dismay.

The other men look down into the long valley on the far side

with equally grim expressions.

Jorgensen doesn't even seem to hear him. Angrily Ethan whips

out revolver and fires into the air. Then he swings his arm

in a come-back gesture. He rides out ahead then a short

distance and dismounts... and slowly the others follow.

We see now, the bodies of a few bulls stiffening in the sun.

Ethan goes to the nearest one. A feathered lance is driven

into it. He pulls the lance out. Mose comes over beside him.

He hands the lance to Mose.

Brad rides in -- shrill with anger.

Jorgensen wilts and casts an anguished look back over the

miles they have ridden.

And with that one word, Jorgensen calls upon his son to follow

and they take off... fast. Ed Nesby and Charlie MacCorry

follow. Sam Clayton pauses.

Then he too rides. Martin swings his horse back to where

Ethan and Mose still are standing.

He wheels his horse and goes tearing to catch up with the

others. Ethan shrugs and stoically takes grain bag to feed

his horse. Mose does the same.

Ethan just gives him an angry look and then ruthlessly begins

discarding every bit of unnecessary equipment from his saddle.

EXT. THE EDWARDS RANCH - WIDE ANGLE - SUNDOWN

Nothing moves. Nothing could be more tranquil. The shadows

are long. A thin wisp of smoke rises from the chimney. And

then Debbie's little dog trots around the side of the house

out into the yard.

EXT. EDWARDS YARD - CLOSE SHOT - THE DOG - SUNDOWN

He comes to a standstill and his nose is working. He begins

to make excited little sounds deep in his belly.

Then he lies down, muzzle between his paws, watching,

listening.

INT. THE EDWARDS HOUSE - FULL SHOT - ANGLING TOWARD

THE DOOR

Debbie sits on the floor, playing with a little rag doll.

The slanting blaze of the setting sun makes a brilliant area

of light in which she is sitting. Beyond her, on the porch

steps, Ben is squatting, whittling a piece of pine into a

slingshot frame. We hear Martha and Lucy busy with the dishes.

Aaron comes from behind CAMERA and stands in the doorway,

absently rapping out his pipe. Near the doorway, on a wooden

peg, hangs his gun, belt. He puts the pipe in his pocket and

glances down at Deborah, intent on her play. He looks swiftly

at where the women are busy - then stealthily eases the gun

from its holster and slides it under his shirt. He hasn't

made a sound and is sure he's got away with it.

He clears his throat noisily and reaches for a light shotgun

pegged above the door.

INT. THE EDWARDS HOUSE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTHA AND LUCY

busy at the wooden sink. Martha doesn't turn.

He steps out. Only then does Martha turn -- and her

EYES GO AT ONCE TO:

INT. THE EDWARDS HOUSE - ANGLING TO DOOR

and FRAMING the empty holster, as Aaron pauses on the porch.

INT. EDWARDS HOUSE - CLOSE SHOT - MARTHA AND LUCY

as Lucy heads for the lamp.

Lucy frowns at her mother.

EXT. THE EDWARDS HOUSE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - AARON AND BEN -

Aaron stares as the boy shifts a fold of blanket, or whatever,

by his side -- to disclose Ethan's cavalry sabre. Aaron smiles

and rubs the youngster's head, then sets out across the yard.

EXT. THE EDWARDS YARD - FULL SHOT - MOVING

Debbie's dog rises at Aaron's approach and joins his master

as they set out across the plain.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY NEAR EDWARDS HOME - MED. CLOSE SHOT -

AARON

He is walking through the scrub and brush grass, every sense

alive and straining. He pauses every three or four strides --

casting each quadrant in turn. Once he whips, gun ready, as

a sage-hen or quail whirrs up not far from him. He smiles

grimly as he watches it fly away. He keeps on.

EXT. THE EDWARDS HOUSE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT PORCH

Martha comes to stand in the doorway. Ben doesn't look at

her. His eyes -- like hers -- are fixed on the figure of the

man.

She doesn't answer. Lucy comes to the door.

EXT. RISING GROUND - WIDE ANGLE - PAST AARON

He stands on the near slope of a rise and then gradually

moves toward its summit, so that only head will be

silhouetted. He drops to one knee, half-leaning against the

slope and slowly looks out... The CAMERA PANS very slowly,

following his careful sweep of the terrain.

The scene is entirely peaceful.

EXT. RISING GROUND - CLOSE SHOT - AARON

with narrowed eyes slowly scanning the ground. Suddenly the

head whips right. We hear a bird's sharp call.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - SKYWARD SHOT - A SMALL BIRD

It is taking flight, sweeping away in erratic arcs.

EXT. RISING GROUND - CLOSE SHOT ON AARON

He squints closely at the ground from which the bird had

flown. Then slowly his eyes range toward the left.

EXT. RISING GROUND - WIDE ANGLE - PAST AARON

Across the meadow, a shadow seems to touch the grass and at

once a covey of quail takes off, whirring loud. Aaron waits

no longer, but slides down the slope and starts running at a

crouch for the house, stopping every so often to look

backward.

EXT. THE EDWARDS HOUSE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTHA AND BEN -

SUNSET

NOTE TO W. HOCH: What J.F. has in mind for this and the

following scenes is the same kind of dramatic use of red you

achieved in "Yellow Ribbon" in the scene telling of Custer's

defeat.

They are standing in the ruddy glare of the sunset and Ben

has Ethan's sabre in his hand. We hear Aaron coming at a

run, breathing hard. Ben takes a step as though to go to

him, but Martha's hand at once is on his shoulder. Aaron

gains the porch.

He puts finger to his lips, sign for Ben to say nothing.

Ben nods and goes inside. Aaron and Martha face each other,

the question large on her face. Slowly he nods the

confirmation of her fears, then gently propels her ahead of

him through the door.

INT. THE EDWARDS HOUSE - FULL SHOT - SUNSET

The room is deeply shadowed except where the dull crimson of

the sun through door and windows slashes the blackness.

Ben is waiting and Martha turns toward Aaron as he pulls the

door shut, bars it and sets the shotgun down. He takes the

revolver from his waist and Martha holds it as he reaches

for his gun belt.

Buckling on his gun belt, he moves toward the middle of the

room, looking around him, taking inventory of his resources.

Lucy slowly approaches, biting a knuckle, eyes wide with

fright.

One shutter closes and the bar of light they were standing

in goes out. Martha, Aaron and Lucy are dark silhouettes now

against the red beam from another window.

Debbie emerges from a shadowed corner into a beam of light.

She is clutching her rag doll, nibbling a cookie. She holds

it for them to see.

Ben closes the shutter. And now the room is almost completely

blacked out, except for the dying light filtering through

the rifle ports of the closed shutters.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - WIDE ANGLE SHOT - THE POSSE - DUSK

This should be an expansive view to convey the fact that the

posse has split -- the main group heading for the Jorgensen

place, Martin forking off to race alone for the Edwards ranch.

Coming toward and passing CAMERA is Martin, riding all out.

Several hundred yards away and moving in a divergent direction

are the others -- Brad and Charlie, Sam, Jorgensen and Ed

Nesby. The men are not compactly bunched, but strung out,

each taking his own best course and his own speed... As the

riders pass and the dust of their passing, we see two other

riders -- Ethan and Mose -- minute specks in the distance,

possibly a mile or two behind.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - MOVING SHOT - ETHAN AND MOSE - DUSK

(NOTE TO W. HOCH: What we are trying to get here is that

moment of swift transition from twilight to night; of riders

briefly touched with the last colors of day and then, as

they pass, becoming one with blue shadows of night.)

Ethan and Mose are holding their mounts to a jog, in marked

contrast to the all-out pace of the others. The CAMERA PANS

after them as the dark fingers of the night stretch across

the valley. The wind begins to rise and somewhere off in the

hills a coyote pack yaps.

INT. EDWARDS - ANGLING PAST AARON AT WINDOW INTO ROOM -

NIGHT

Aaron is little more than a shadowy silhouette as he peers

into the night through a partly-opened shutter. Suddenly the

room leaps alight as Lucy opens an inner door and enters,

holding a lighted lamp. Aaron closes the shutter, spins on

her angrily.

Martha crosses the room swiftly and blows out the lamp.

In the brief moment the room has been lighted, we see that

Lucy is carrying a dark shawl in one hand; that Ben is

crouched at another window -- rifle ready; and that Deborah

is on her feet -- standing like a child who is being dressed.

He cautiously swings the shutters open. A pale light filters

into the room. We see Martha wrapping the shawl around

Deborah.

He reaches for the child, but he has to wait for Martha's

last embrace.

Aaron takes the child, swings her out the window.

Martha would come to the window to look out, but Aaron bars

her with an arm and draws back to the side of the window to

watch her go... Outside the little dog barks a welcome and

presumably starts to follow the girl. Aaron reacts.

The dog whines but obeys. Aaron continues watching the child's

course -- unconsciously imitating her every run and twist...

Then he smiles and we may see the brightness in the corners

of his eyes.

He closes the shutters and turns -- and his arms go around

Martha, weeping soundlessly.

EXT. A HILLOCK WITH TWO HEADBOARDS - MED. CLOSE SHOT -

NIGHT

Nothing stirs and we hear nothing. Then, with faintest little

rustle, Debbie comes snaking along the ground into the hollow

between the two graves and lies there face down, pressed

against Topsy. She becomes one with the earth and the

stillness. And then the moonlight strikes the tips of the

scrub growth and as a cloud scuds by, the moonlight reveals

something glittering -- like beads. And the CAMERA from that

ground-level shot

RAISES QUICKLY TO:

CLOSE SHOT - FROM EXTREME LOW ANGLE - SCAR

The Comanche we are later to know as SCAR is painted for war --

tall, savage, mockingly looking down at what we know is the

child's hiding place... And in that instant, from a dozen

quarters and a dozen throats, sounds the wild yammer of the

warwhoop!

OMITTED

EXT. RISING GROUND - MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTIN - MOONLIGHT

He stands beside his spent and fallen horse. Its breathing

is a rasping whistle. Martin tries to haul its head up.

Useless. Breathing hard himself, his face ashen in the

moonlight, Martin looks desperately off in the direction of

the ranch. Then he jerks the rifle from its saddle scabbard --

struggling with it because it is under the horse. He freezes

then -- listening... And we hear the steady beat of two

horsemen approaching. Martin knows who they are and his face

is alive with hope. He gets the rifle free at last and goes

running toward the oncoming riders.

The CAMERA SWINGS with him and we see Ethan and Mose

approaching at the same steady gait.

Ethan doesn't slacken, nearly rides him down.

Martin goes sprawling to his hands and knees. Mose continues

without slowing.

EXT. RISING GROUND - ANOTHER ANGLE - PAST THE RIDERS -

MOONLIGHT

He goes running, stumbling after the riders -- desperately

calling to them...

And then at the crest of the rising ground, he stops --

We see in the distance the glow of a fire leading from the

barns and the hayricks and the house of Aaron Edwards.

Martin runs down the slope.

EXT. YARD AND APPROACH TO EDWARDS HOUSE - WIDE ANGLE - NIGHT

(NOTE TO W. HOCH: Here again that use of red is suggested.)

The ANGLE is past the porch uprights toward Mose and Ethan

as they ride in. Little tongues of fire are licking the edges

of the uprights. A few arrows, imbedded in the wood, are

burning along their shafts. Beyond are the glowing ashes of

the hayricks and the charred, smouldering rails of the corral.

There are no bodies in evidence... The red glow of the burning

is on the faces of the men as they dismount.

Ethan strides to the porch, knocking away one of the blazing

arrows as he heads to the door. He stops there -- and what

he sees makes the big shoulders droop, the huge frame slump.

Slowly then -- and removing his hat -- he goes in. Mose

shuffles to the edge of the porch and squats there and rocks

back and forth, his face working and crying soundlessly with

senile grief. We hear a splintered door crash from its hinges

within the room and Ethan's muffled voice calling through

the house:

He strides back through the main room and out onto the porch

just as Martin comes at a shambling run across the yard.

Ethan takes a few steps out toward him. Martin would pass

him, but Ethan grabs his arm.

Martin tries to fight his arm free.

Ethan turns him and drives a brutal right to his jaw. Martin

goes down -- out cold. And only now do we understand how

merciful the blow was as Ethan looks compassionately at the

fallen figure.

And he takes off at a stumbling run for the hilltop.

EXT. THE HILLOCK WITH THE TWO HEADBOARDS - FULL SHOT - ETHAN

as he nears the graves.

He runs in, looking around him. He sees the little dog, dead

on the ground. And then he sees a shadowed something:

The shawl Debbie had worn. It is spread out, almost as though

concealing a body. Fearfully he stoops and pulls it away...

There is nothing there, but the shawl. He drops to his knees,

his head bowed, his face tortured. The moonlight is clear on

the face of the nearer headboard. It is of weathered wood

and the chiselled letters on it read:

EXT. THE HILLOCK - FULL SHOT - SLOWLY PANNING - DAWN LIGHT

The funeral is begun. In the foreground are three newly-

made crosses at the head of as many open graves -- which we

need not see. With head bared, Sam Clayton is concluding his

prayer. Near him stand the Jorgensen family: Mrs.  Jorgensen,

Lars and LAURIE -- blonde, just beginning to reach her

maturity -- and a stepping-stone of tow-headed children.

Mrs. Jorgensen and Laurie -- impelled by the same feminine

sympathy and interest -- turn to look at Ethan and Martin.

The PANNING CAMERA picks them up...Ethan standing dry-eyed,

looking at the grave of Martha; Martin -- with bruised lip --

looking out across the plain.

Clayton now opens his small, well-worn Bible to a marked

page.

Ethan looks at him, angrily, impatiently.

Ethan turns on his heel and walks -- CAMERA PANNING -- to

where Ed Nesby has been holding the horses. Brad is already

mounting. Mose is there too and Charlie MacCorry.  Silhouetted

against the dawn light are the rifles in each man's saddle

scabbard. Clayton is right behind Ethan.

The young riders spur out.

EXT. NEAR HILLOCK - MED. CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN AND MRS.

JORGENSEN

Ethan is about to mount when Mrs. Jorgensen comes up and

catches his arm.

Ethan glances back at where Martin and Laurie are standing.

ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING LAURIE AND MARTIN

The girl is looking at Martin full of compassion, tries to

console him by taking his arm and squeezing it as he stares

blindly at the graves and Jorgensen stolidly beginning the

work of shovelling them full.

EXT. NEAR HILLOCK - ETHAN AND MRS. JORGENSEN AS BEFORE

Ethan looks back at her -- stone-faced.

Ethan shrugs his arm free and mounts.

He ignores her and turns angrily to where Martin is.

He digs spurs and rides out with the others. Martin comes

over, with Laurie a step behind. His face is set, his eyes

almost unseeing.

He swings into his saddle. Laurie impulsively runs to his

side, steps onto the toe of his stirruped boot and pulls

herself up to his level to kiss him hard and full upon the

mouth.

He looks at her dully, as though hardly conscious of it. And

she is back beside her mother. Martin rides away after the

others.

Laurie looks at her mother and understands.

61-A

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - THE SEARCHERS - EARLY MORNING LIGHT

The SEARCH THEME begins as we see the riders in turn.

A series of portraits of the men.

CLOSE SHOT - BRAD AND CHARLIE - riding point, they come to a

pause, surveying the terrain ahead. Charlie, with an arm

signal, indicates he will take the left. Brad nods and he

rides out to the right.

THE MAIN BODY OF THE MEN, Clayton passing first, expression

resolute, competent... Then Ed Nesby and old Mose, squinting

at the ground as they ride, all but sniffing like an old

hound dog.

63A

MARTIN - Next to last in file. Finally:

63B

ETHAN - His face a study of relentless purpose.

OMITTED.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - BRAD AND CHARLIE - AFTERNOON

The two men are at a cairn of rocks -- their horses nearby.

In the near distance, Clayton is leading the men of the search

party at a fast clip toward the cairn. Charlie is standing,

Brad tearing the rock cairn apart. In Charlie's hands is a

Comanche head-dress of polished buffalo horn and feathers.

Brad doesn't even look up as the men ride in and dismount,

but continues his grim work of uncovering the buried Indian.

Brad shifts another rock and Looks grimly upon the face (O.S.)

of the dead Comanche. Then he spits at it and stands.

With that he strides to the cairn, whipping a knife out. he

crouches over the body (O.S.) concealing what he is doing,

he bends to his bloody task.

Sam Clayton crosses to stand behind him.

He stands now and he faces Sam.

He flings the scalp down and grinds it into the dirt with

his heel... He wipes clean the blade of his knife as he

crosses back to his horse. The men mount (those who have

dismounted) and they ride off.

OMITTED

EXT. NIGHT CAMP - RAVINE - CLOSE SHOT - BRAD AND MARTIN

Brad is looking out into the night -- strain and tension in

every line. Beyond them we may see some of the other men --

sitting or sprawled on the ground near a sheltered fire.

Ethan crosses behind them carrying his blanket roll. He looks

at them sourly.

They move off, heading for their blankets. The CAMERA HOLDS

on Ethan as he rolls up his blanket and turns on his side.

He fishes a miniature out of his pocket and gravely studies

it by the light of the flickering little fire.

70-A

CLOSE SHOT - THE MINIATURE - NIGHT

It is a picture of Martha. The CAMERA PULLS BACK to show

Ethan studying it gravely, then putting it away and lying

back to stare broodingly into the night.

EXT. RIDGE TOP - CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN, BRAD, MOSE, SAM -

SUNSET

The four faces are just over the ridge, peering at something

far distant, far below.

He starts to squirm down the ridge, the others following.

EXT. HIGH COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - THE SEARCHERS - SUNSET

Ethan's group crosses to where the other men are waiting

with the horses.

Martin and Brad stare at Sam -- not understanding the

question. But Mose knows what he means and studiously looks

into space.

They look into each other's eyes a moment, then Sam turns to

mount... and the others follow. Slowly then they start riding

down the slope.

EXT. FLAT GROUND, LIKE MARSH COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - THE

SEARCHERS - DAWN MIST EFFECT

(NOTE: It is now planned to shoot this on sound stage.)

Fog and heavy morning mist rise from the swamp. Some cattails

in the near ground. The effect is eerie, very still except

for the trilling of frogs. Then, very quietly, the men emerge

from the mist swirling around them. They are leading their

horses. Sam looks baffled, angry. They stand still, listening --

then slowly continue.

EXT. FLAT GROUND - ANOTHER ANGLE - FULL SHOT - DAWN MIST

(SOUND STAGE)

The mist is thinning. In the f.g. is a small blackened area --

the ashes of a campfire. The men come through the mist --

wary, vigilant. It is Mose who first spots the fire. He runs

to it and drops beside and feels the ashes.

The others come up around him.

He looks at Clayton.

They move on, slowly.

74-A

EXT. FLAT GROUND - FULL SHOT - MOVING (SOUND STAGE)

The mist is thinning as the men warily move along.

Suddenly there is the faint hoot of an owl from behind and

to one side... the men turn slightly, hearing it... A moment

later another owl hoot, from the same side but up ahead.

From the interchange of looks, we must know that the riders

are aware of its significance. Mose cups hand to his mouth

and he hoots in exact imitation of the other calls. Clayton

glares at him.

Ethan grins wryly. And now the first, faint, ruddy touch of

the sun hits the slowly moving horsemen and begins to burn

through the mist.

74-B

EXT. NEAR RIVER - PANNING SHOT - MORNING

The CAMERA SLOWLY PANS from a sun-touched butte or crag to

the file of men slowly walking their horses. An occasional

shred of mist drifts by. Everything about the little cavalcade

bespeaks tension, watchfulness. Suddenly -- and every man

sees it at the same time -- we see a file of eight Comanches

ride slowly out of a canyon at a distance, walking their

horses at the same pace and on a course roughly parallel

with, but slightly converging on, our group.

Brad, who has been looking up ahead, sounds a new warning.

74-C

EXT. CANYON COUNTRY - LONG SHOT - PAST THE SEARCHERS

Another Indian file of eight angles out of a different canyon

and begins to cut in toward the group -- riding slowly, very

quietly. Clayton slightly alters course, veering slightly

away from the converging files, but still riding slowly. And

then, from ahead but at a 100 yards, another Comanche group

seems to rise out of the ground and slowly begins closing

the gap.

And with that yell, he drives spurs and cuts sharply at an

angle to the converging Indian files -- and every man is

with him. In the next instant, the Comanches whoop and give

chase.

74-D

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - THE CHASE

with the Ranger group short-cutting in such a way as to

outstrip the Comanche horsemen in a mad dash for the river.

74-E

EXT. THE RIVER'S EDGE - FULL SHOT - THE GROUP

Clayton flings his hand up in a signal to halt as the Rangers

reach the bank. They rein in, wheel their horses and are

reaching for the rifles as the Comanche vanguard races into

view -- to find themselves opposed by seven veterans, sitting

their horses, rifles at their shoulders.

The charge breaks as the seven rifles bark, almost in unison --

and the Indians wheel to shelter.

And once again he spins his mount and takes off, across the

river, followed by the others.

74-F

EXT. THE RIVER - FULL SHOT

As the men pound across.

74-G

EXT. FAR BANK OF RIVER - FULL SHOT - THE GROUP

They dismount and Charlie and Nesby take the horses and run

them to some place of protection as the men group around

Clayton and Ethan. During this:

Mose runs over and crouches beside Ethan. Beyond Ethan is

Martin, then Brad... Nesby and Charlie will rejoin the group

after an appropriate interval... with all the men shielded

behind river boulders, etc.

EXT. RIVER'S EDGE - ANGLING PAST ETHAN AND MOSE WITH MARTIN

AND BRAD BEYOND

Ethan and Mose are hunkered down behind some rocks, very

casual and business-like as they check rifles, set out and

carefully wipe cartridges.

Martin is in the throes of buck-fever, wiping mouth with

back of his hand, peering anxiously across the river.

EXT. RIVER'S EDGE - LONG SHOT - PAST THE GROUP

On the opposite bank, we see the full force of Comanches

riding into sight -- racing their mounts to the edge, then

wheeling off -- jeering, taunting. Brad starts to bring up

his rifle.

One Comanche rides a few yards into the water, brandishing

his rifle, taunting the white men. A moment later he is joined

by a second brave.

He and Mose slowly bring their rifles to bear -- and then

the two shots crack out almost simultaneously. And within

split seconds both Comanches fall. The others race away.

Sam comes charging over to Ethan and Mose.

And he drops behind a rock as, with a wild whooping, the

Comanche forces swing from their places of hiding and hit

the river. The men open fire, all but Martin, who has frozen,

staring wild-eyed at the oncoming Comanches.

EXT. RIVER'S EDGE - PROFILE SHOT - THE DEFENDERS

Brad, Charlie, Clayton, Nesby are snapping shot after shot.

Only Martin seems out of it. Ethan shoots him a glance.

Some of the tension leaves Martin. Somehow his gun is in

position and he is firing as fast and well as the others.

77-A

EXT. THE RIVER - FULL SHOT - INDIAN CHARGE

The Comanches are coming in, crouched low over their ponies'

necks, whooping and firing. Men and horses go down, counted

off by the expert marksmanship of the Texans. But they keep

coming.

77-B

EXT. RIVER'S EDGE - PROFILE SHOT - PAST MARTIN, ETHAN, MOSE

They drop their rifles now and pull out revolvers for close-

range work. One Comanche breaks through from the side, his

buffalo lance ready for the thrust. Ethan whirls and fires.

The Comanche horse charges through the defense line and out

and there is a muffled scream of pain from Ed Nesby.

77-C

EXT. THE RIVER - WIDE ANGLE - THE INDIANS

The charge breaks and Comanches wheel left and right, racing

back across the river. With magnificent horsemanship, one

brave rides to an unhorsed warrior crouched in the shallows

and swings him up behind. Two others, riding together, head

for one of the two dead Comanches Ethan and Mose had downed

on their first shots. Swinging simultaneously from their

saddles, they grab the dead man and carry him off.

77-D

EXT. THE RIVER'S EDGE - ANGLING PAST MOSE AND ETHAN

Ethan snuggles his rifle to his shoulder as two other racing

Comanches prepare to pick up the other dead Indian. Most of

the Comanches have regained the far bank now and are racing

away. The firing from the Texans has stopped.

OMITTED

EXT. RIVER'S EDGE - CLOSE SHOT - BEHIND ETHAN

The angle is along his rifle barrel as it beads on one of

the racing Comanches trying to pick up the dead Indian.

Clayton's big hand grasps the rifle barrel.

EXT. RIVER'S EDGE - CLOSE SHOT - THE TWO

Ethan looks up into Clayton's face.

Ethan pulls the gun free and looks out across the river.

EXT. THE RIVER - LONG SHOT - PAST THEM

The Comanches have done their work, are riding away -- and

over the saddle of one lies the limp form of the dead Indian.

Ethan looks back at Sam.

The CAMERA SWINGS to pick up the figure of Nesby outstretched

on the ground, writhing in pain; with Charlie kneeling beside

him. The men cross to stand around the fallen man.

Ethan glares at them, but has to accept it.

He heads away, for his horse. Brad and Martin look at each

other as the full import of Ethan's footnote strikes home.

Then they head for their own horses.

OMITTED

86-A

EXT. THE RIVER - FULL SHOT

Ethan, Martin, and Brad mount. Clayton crosses to them.

They nod.

The three re-enter the river and slowly start across, with

Clayton gravely looking after them. The three riders continue

across the river... and the Search Theme resumes.

EXT. WIDE ANGLE - DESERT COUNTRY - BLAZING NOON

A region of buttes and giant rock formations; treeless, arid

and seemingly reaching out to infinity. Far off we see a

cloud of dust -- miles and miles off. Only the dust, nothing

else. From behind CAMERA ride the three men -- Ethan, Brad,

and Martin -- dust-powdered, eyes bloodshot. The three are

watching that distant cloud of dust. They force their weary

horses onward.

EXT. DESERT COUNTRY - WIDE ANGLE - LATE AFTERNOON

The ANGLE is past some spectacular butte or citadel of rock

into another long reach of valley -- different from the first

view of it, yet alike in its suggestion of endlessness.

But now there is no cloud of dust far away -- nothing to

suggest the passage of anything but time itself.

Ethan, Martin, and Brad ride into the fringe of the butte's

shadow and scan the terrain ahead.

Ethan turns to catch Martin thirstily drinking from his

canteen.

Brad wheels on him.

OMITTED

89-A

EXT. VALLEY AND CANYON WALL - WIDE ANGLE - THE RIDERS -

LATE AFTERNOON

(NOTE: This is the gap in the rocks near the "Medicine

Country" at Monument.)

The three riders come to where the trail they have been

following forks... the main horseprint track leading ahead,

a lesser track heading for a narrow gap between two buttes.

Ethan thinks he knows why. His face is bleak. But he tries

to be casual.

He turns his mount toward the gap.

He's still grumbling as he rides off. An abashed Martin rides

ahead along the broad trail with Brad.

(NOTE: Ethan's serape, tied behind his saddle, should be

clearly seen as he rides away -- not pointed up, but visible.)

EXT. FAR SIDE OF BUTTE - TWILIGHT

Martin and Brad, riding in a direction opposite to that in

which they had taken off -- indicating their circle route --

haul up momentarily as they spot Ethan, standing beside his

horse, his back to them, some distance along. They turn

slightly off their course and ride out toward him.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - NEAR BUTTE - TWILIGHT

Ethan turns, almost startled, as the two youths ride in.

His serape is no longer behind his saddle. Ethan looks at

them blankly for a minute -- as though not really seeing

them.

They both stare at him.

They both can see that.

They look at him and each other -- for these are clearly

unnecessary remarks and doubly surprising coming from Ethan.

He goes to his horse, mounts. Martin is right beside him and

he notes the missing serape.

He leads out. Brad rides up beside Martin. Again the two

exchange puzzled looks. Martin shrugs and the three continue

along the broad trace of the Indian ponies into the setting

sun.

EXT. NIGHT CAMP - A POCKET IN THE HILLS - TWILIGHT

Ethan crouches over a small fire built into a slit trench so

that barely the glow of the flames can be seen. Beyond him

Martin is leading their unsaddled horses away. The men have

come to the end of another long day. Both men look up as

Brad comes over a hill slope and rides recklessly down the

incline to their camp. His horse is lathered.

Martin runs to his side as Brad slides off his mount.

Ethan moves more slowly.

He can't look at Brad or at Martin. Brad can't speak -- and

then finally:

Ethan wheels on him in shouting fury.

Brad wipes his mouth with the back of his hand. He turns --

walking stiff-legged as though on stilts back to his horse.

He bends his head against the saddle, as though to hide his

grief. Martin turns away from him and walks back to Ethan.

And in that moment, Brad mounts and takes off in the same

direction from which he had ridden in.

They run for their horses.

92-A

EXT. ROUGH ROLLING COUNTRY - NIGHT - MOVING - CLOSE SHOT -

BRAD

He comes pounding down a slope, and he takes off his hat and

skims it away. He rips off a neckerchief as though to relieve

the rush of raging blood.

92-B

EXT. THE EDGE OF A RISE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - BRAD - NIGHT

He reaches the crest and reins in. A distant firelight is on

his face. He takes one moment to look down into the Comanche

camp o.s. Then he has his gun out. His eyes are wild, his

face wet with sweat. Then he throws back his head and he

yells -- and with the yell goes charging into the camp.

92-C

EXT. A RIDGE - FULL SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN - NIGHT

They rein in -- staring -- as from afar they hear Brad's

yell echoing and bouncing off the canyon walls. There is

nothing they can do. They hear his shouts, then the quick

bark of his .44, and the angry shouts of the Comanche.

92-D

EXT. COMANCHE CAMP - EXTREME CLOSEUP - BRAD - RIDING - NIGHT

His face is red with the reflected light of the fires he is

passing o.s. and his eyes are alight with a crazy, savage

joy. His gun cracks once, then again -- and the hammer clicks

on a spent shell.

92-E

EXT. COMANCHE CAMP - CLOSE SHOT - SCAR - NIGHT

He stands apart, warbow drawn and arrow notched. He releases

it at his running target. We hear its impact and a high gasp

of pain... and then the jubilant, yammering yells of other

Comanches.

92-F

EXT. A RIDGE - FULL ON MARTIN AND ETHAN AS BEFORE - NIGHT

The distant yammering of the Comanches doesn't quite drown

out one stifled scream of pain; we can surmise a scalping

knife was busy in the last instance of Brad's life. Martin

slumps in his saddle. Ethan listens a moment, then turns to

Martin.

He turns his horse back the way they had come. Martin stares

at him.

Slowly, he rides away. Slowly, reluctantly but helpless to

do otherwise, Martin follows.

OMITTED

EXT. PLAINS COUNTRY - LOW ANGLE SHOT - DAY

A study of horseprints etched in the soil -- the mark of the

passage of many horses; perhaps an eagle or turkey feather

fallen from a warbonnet. And then we hear and see the approach

of two plodding horses, and the dusty boots of the horsemen --

Ethan and Martin -- following the trail. The Search Theme

resumes and continues over the next three shots, helping us

suggest the passage of time, the change of scene.

EXT. PLAINS COUNTRY - LONG SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN - DAY

The two figures are little more than specks in a vastness of

savage country.

EXT. MOUNTAIN COUNTRY - LOW ANGLE SHOT - DAY

Again we study the hooves of two horses, fighting their way

up a rocky slope and past a thorn bush on which -- fluttering

in the mountain wind -- is a torn scrap of scarlet cloth

with a bit of beadwork or Indian decoration.

OMITTED

EXT. PLAINS COUNTRY - LOW ANGLE SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN -

AFTERNOON

It is a portrait study of two faces -- etched by wind and

privation and cold into tragic, fanatic masks.

Martin has aged years in a matter of months. Falling snow

flakes touch their faces and begin to rime their stubbly

beards.

He turns his mount.

OMITTED

FADE IN

EXT. THE JORGENSEN HOUSE AND APPROACH - WIDE ANGLE -

TWILIGHT

The time is spring. It is a year and a half later.

The Jorgensen house is larger than the Edwards place -- of

sod and logs, with a covered breezeway connecting the two

separate buildings of the house: one being the keeping room,

the other the sleeping quarters of the numerous Jorgensen

brood. A meadowlark breaks into his sudden song. A dog or

two come barking around the side of the house as Ethan and

Martin ride slowly from behind CAMERA toward the house. In

that instant a lamp is lighted within the house and Lars

Jorgensen comes to the door.

EXT. THE JORGENSEN HOUSE - FULL SHOT - NEAR DOOR - TWILIGHT

Jorgensen peers at the two men as they ride up - recognizing

them, of course, but ill-prepared for the change in their

appearance and full of unspoken questions.

Bearing a lamp, Mrs. Jorgensen hurries out to stand beside

her husband -- and her face works and tears begin to well in

her eyes. Two tow-headed boys -- 13 or 14 -- come after her.

Jorgensen makes a little signal with one hand, not even

looking at the boys, and they hurry out to take the reins as

Ethan and Martin dismount.

EXT. THE JORGENSEN HOUSE - MED. SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN

The passage of time has stamped Martin -- and will continue

during our story more and more to stamp him -- in the image

of Ethan. Now it may show only in the set of his hat or trick

of standing; later it will be in his walk, in his speech (or

paucity of speech). Neither man is sure of his reception.

They are thinking of Brad -- dead because of their search;

and Martin is thinking of Laurie. And then Mrs. Jorgensen is

running across to Martin and has him in her arms as though

he were her son -- saying nothing, just holding him. He stands

frozen a moment and then he returns the embrace. Ethan watches

a moment, then crosses to Jorgensen.

Mrs. Jorgensen starts to lead the way inside. Martin hangs

back.

Laurie rushes past her mother.

She kisses him hard and full on the mouth -- and has no eyes

for anyone else. Mrs. Jorgensen looks on with amusement.

Martin is just bowled over.

And Laurie smiles triumphantly at her mother.

Laurie grabs his hand then and pulls him indoors -- and there

is no further resistance from Martin.

Mrs. Jorgensen and her husband converge then on Ethan -- and

her face is gravely questioning.

Ethan shakes his head. She squeezes his arm reassuringly and

they start indoors.

INT. THE SPARE BEDROOM OF THE JORGENSEN'S - MED. SHOT -

MARTIN - NIGHT

This is a room off the kitchen end of the keeping room --

and described in the book as the "grandmother room": with

narrow, slit-like windows, a set of single bunk beds, possibly

a fireplace.

Martin is in a deep wooden tub, taking a hot bath, currying

his back with a long-handled brush. Beyond him is the door.

It opens and Martin turns casually -- and at once stops being

casual as Laurie enters and purposefully crosses to a stool

or bench on which his discarded clothing is scattered.

She picks up the shirt, puts it over one arm; she reaches

for his long-handled and ragged underwear, runs a fist through

a hole in its seat, clucks and shreds it into rags. During

this:

She turns and looks at him, matter of fact.

And she is laughing as she closes the door behind her.

INT. THE KEEPING ROOM OF THE JORGENSEN HOUSE - FULL SHOT

It is a plastered room, everything bright and shiny; a big

wood-burning cookstove, above it a row of shiny copper pots;

the furniture handmade and probably not too much unlike the

good plain Swedish modern of today.

There should be Scandinavian accents in the decor. All told,

a cheerful, warm-smelling room.

Ethan is talking as Laurie enters the room still carrying

Martin's shirt, the rags of his underwear. She will wait,

listening for a break in what Ethan is saying, to try to get

her mother's attention. Jorgensen is sitting in his usual

chair -- with his boots off, puffing his pipe more or less

in tune with what Ethan is talking about. Mrs. Jorgensen is

in her rocker, darning or knitting. Ethan is standing near

the mantel.

Mrs. Jorgensen looks up from her darning.

Mrs. Jorgensen stands.

The speech impresses everyone but Laurie, who probably hasn't

heard a word of it.

There is just the briefest hesitation...

And she leads the way briskly, with Laurie following, to a

big chest at the far end of the room.

Ethan and Jorgensen cross together to where Mrs. Jorgensen

is raising the top of a huge dower chest. She extracts a

letter, wrapped in oilskin against moths.

Ethan takes the letter and studies it very carefully before

venturing to open it. Jorgensen is quite curious, but trying

not to seem nosy. The women remain at the chest -- pulling

out various folded garments, etc. Finally Ethan carefully

opens it and takes out a letter -- dirty as to paper, crudely

printed in pencil and with a horseshoe nail pinning a two-

inch square snip of calico to the bottom of the sheet. He

reads the letter with the habitual difficulty of a man unused

to words and then he turns the letter, removes the nail and

looks at the snip of cloth.

She comes to him, her arms piled with clothing; and

Laurie a step behind her, holding up a new pair of long-

handled underwear -- measuring it with her eyes for holes,

etc.

He holds out the snip of calico.

He takes the calico snip, places it within the letter and

carefully pockets it. He looks broodingly into the fire.

Laurie's face is troubled as she turns from him and heads

for the grandmother room, carrying the armful of clothes.

INT. THE SPARE BEDROOM - FULL SHOT - NIGHT

Martin is sitting sulkily on a cot, wrapped in a blanket.

He glares up as Laurie enters. His feet are in his boots.

Ethan opens the door, enters.

She wants to kiss Martie but is shy in Ethan's presence and

hurries out.

Martin stoops to remove his boots. Ethan studies him and

looks thoughtfully after the girl and at Martin.

He takes the letter out of his pocket -- as though he meant

to read it -- and then he puts it back decisively.

He starts to undress. Martin lies back on his bunk.

Ethan returns the stare without any change of expression.

Martin throws himself back, turns his face to the wall.

Ethan looks soberly at him -- and is sorry for the brutality

of his words.

EXT. THE JORGENSEN HOME - WIDE ANGLE - DAWN LIGHT

It is a still scene, with the first light of day in the sky,

a thin plume of smoke rising from the chimney.

INT. THE JORGENSEN KEEPING ROOM - MED. CLOSE SHOT - LAURIE -

DAWN LIGHT

She is in a robe made of an Indian blanket, belted snugly

around her waist. She wears moccasins for slippers. Her

flannel nightgown is high at the collar and almost trails

the floor. She is at the stove, frying bacon and eggs; a

coffee pot is on the boil. Beyond her the door to the

grandmother room opens and Martin comes in -- dressed in

Brad's clothes. His eyes whip around the room. Laurie doesn't

turn as he slowly approaches.

The starch goes out of him. He walks heavily to the table

and sits, slumped. She looks at him compassionately.

He just shakes his head, not looking at her. She lifts the

food from the skillet onto a plate and sets it before him.

He shakes his head. She crosses to the stove for the coffee

pot.

Now it is her turn to stare.

Laurie has poured his coffee. Now he sips it. She sits at

the table with him.

She takes Ethan's letter from her breast and hands it to

him. He takes it, puzzled, and slowly reads it aloud.

Martin is on his feet.

Laurie goes to the front door and throws it wide.

He runs out and she slams the door, then rests her head

against it.

113-A

INT. JORGENSEN KEEPING ROOM - FULL SHOT - EARLY MORNING

Mrs. Jorgensen quietly enters the room and sees Laurie with

head pressed against the door. She wants to offer some word

of sympathy, but doesn't know what to say. She crosses to

the stove to pour herself a cup of coffee. Then we hear the

drum of horses' hooves, the sound of Martin riding away.

Laurie flings open the door, almost as though to call him

back.

113-B

EXT. PLAINS COUNTRY AND LAKE BEFORE JORGENSEN HOUSE - EARLY

MORNING

ANGLING from behind Laurie in the doorway as Martin, riding

one horse, leading another, goes galloping away.

EXT. FUTTERMAN'S TRADING POST - WIDE ANGLE - DAY

Low, squat adobe structure, with a crudely lettered sign-

board proclaiming it:

There are adjacent outbuildings and corral. Four horses are

tied outside, two being pack animals. A surly-looking white

man or breed sits in a stool tilted back near the door,

whittling with a long-bladed knife, eyeing the horses

covetously. He glances aside and glares as a squaw shuffles

along bearing a clumsy load of faggots on her bowed back.

Fearfully she quickens her step. The man gets up, shoves

knife into belt and heads into the post.

INT. FUTTERMAN'S TRADING POST - FULL SHOT - DAY

It is a grimy establishment with some dusty trade goods on

shelves; a counter which serves as a bar; a few plank tables

and benches.

The breed seen outside enters and crosses to a side table

where another mean-looking hombre sits preparing to play a

game of solitaire with a deck of limp cards.

Ethan and Martin are at a table in the center of the room,

examining a dirty, rumpled child's dress -- Debbie's.

Martin nods soberly in answer to Ethan's inquiring look;

yes, it's hers. Both look up as FUTTERMAN crosses from the

bar, carrying a whisky jug and two dirty glasses -- his

fingers thrust inside the glasses. Futterman is a squaw man

and a killer -- dead eyes in a white face.

He sets the jug down, picks up one of the glasses -- so grey

and thumb-printed it is almost opaque. Both Ethan and Martin

regard it with disgust. Futterman gives a slight shrug, takes

the dress and starts to wipe the dirty glass with it. Martin

snatches it out of his hand.

Ethan looks at him and beyond toward the two men.

INT. FUTTERMAN'S - CLOSE SHOT - THE TWO PLUG-UGLIES

The solitaire player has a card in mid-air -- frozen,

watching. The other man has the same buzzard-watchful look.

INT. FUTTERMAN'S - FULL SHOT - THE GROUP AS BEFORE

Futterman uncorks the jug, prepares to drink.

He tilts the jug to his mouth as Ethan reaches for his heavy

leather pouch. Futterman watches greedily as Ethan lets a

gold piece slide out. He tosses it onto the table.

Futterman puts the jug down. His hand inches -- as though

pulled by a magnet -- toward the gold piece.

Ethan's big hand clamps over Futterman's and he starts

squeezing as a man would squeeze a lemon. Futterman's lips

whiten.

Ethan stands. Martin follows. Martin takes the dress and

folds it carefully.

Ethan and Martin head for the door.

The two plug-uglies stand -- mean ready to do their master's

bidding.

They leave. The CAMERA holds on Futterman as he slowly rubs

his bruised hand. His henchmen drift toward him.

EXT. HILLY COUNTRY - MED. SHOT - ETHAN - NIGHT

They have set up camp near a cluster of cottonwoods to which

the horses have been tied. One of the horses is restless,

possibly nickering. Ethan strokes its neck, looking out

thoughtfully into the night -- listening.

CAMERA PANS him to where Martin is spreading his blanket

some little distance from the small fire.

Martin is a bit surprised as Ethan takes the blanket and

spreads it near the saddle -- making the saddle serve as a

pillow. Then Ethan tosses a few more heavy pieces of dry

wood on the fire, making it blaze up.

He spreads his own blanket as Martin wraps into his bedroll,

and when Martin turns, he casually arranges the blanket to

suggest it is over the figure of a man. During this:

Ethan steps back -- and studies the "dummy."

Ethan studies Martin's back -- the light on him -- and looks

around figuring the range of fire.

Martin just grunts and snugs deeper into his blanket. Ethan

nods his satisfaction -- sure Martin isn't going to change

positions. Then he takes off his hat and boots and uses them

to complete the dummy. He picks up his rifle then and quietly

walks out of the camp.

EXT. HILLY COUNTRY - A RAVINE OR ARROYO - FULL SHOT - THREE

MEN - NIGHT

Three shadowy figures -- Futterman and his two henchmen --

are quietly dismounting, taking rifles from saddle scabbards.

At a hand signal from Futterman, they quietly fan out afoot.

EXT. NIGHT CAMP - MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTIN

still snug in his blankets, sound asleep; the fire burning a

little lower but still shedding plenty of light on him.

EXT. HILLY COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - FROM BEHIND FUTTERMAN AND

HIS HENCHMEN

At a crouch or crawling, the three worm their way among some

rocks until they reach a slight rise looking down into the

camp. Martin is asleep and next to him is Ethan's dummy, hat

over its face, and the fire still burning. The two henchmen

snake their rifles up to a firing position. A shot cracks...

and one man is knocked flat on his face.

The other whirls in the direction of the shot, his rifle

swinging in search of a target. A second shot splits the

night and the breed falls as though hit by a giant fist...

Martin is sitting up now, staring wildly around. Futterman

starts to run down-slope, away from the hidden marksman,

dodging between the rocks. A third shot catches him in the

back and he spins and falls and rolls down the slope into

the firepit camp area. Martin is on his feet now.

EXT. NIGHT CAMP - FULL SHOT - MARTIN

He is staring at Futterman, face down and almost at his feet.

He looks around in fear at someone approaching -- hand going

to his gun. Then he relaxes as Ethan casually enters the

camp, bareheaded, carrying his rifle.

Ethan kneels beside Futterman, turns him over, reaches into

his pockets -- first one, then another.

Ethan grins satisfiedly as he straightens and spins the gold

piece in the air, catches it and pockets it.

And now Martin is getting the whole picture... and he's mad.

Ethan is just grinning at him -- completely unruffled, denying

none of it.

Ethan sobers a little, seems honestly surprised.

EXT. THE JORGENSEN HOME - WIDE ANGLE - DAY

It is a day in early winter. Charlie MacCorry, short-coated,

is galloping across the yard as Jorgensen crosses it --

carrying a load of firewood.

MacCorry swings off his saddle near the porch, as the door

opens and Mrs. Jorgensen comes out -- shawled against the

cold.

Jorgensen lets the cordwood drop...

INT. JORGENSEN KEEPING ROOM - FULL SHOT

as Charlie enters, following Mrs. Jorgensen. Jorgensen

excitedly enters and closes the door. Laurie comes in from

another room. Charlie smiles and bows clumsily.

He hands the letter to Laurie who comes over eagerly, takes

it and studies the wrapper before opening it.

But Laurie has no interest in anything but the letter which

she is reading skimmingly.

Laurie looks up then.

Mrs. Jorgensen has been pulling and pushing chairs around

and now they all take places. Jorgensen automatically reaches

for his glasses on the mantel and puts them on -- even though

he isn't going to read the letter. Laurie has been sneaking

looks at some of the other pages.

She breaks off, looks up -- puzzled.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - LATE SUMMER OR FALL - ETHAN AND MARTIN

(SILENT)

leading their pack animals. Martin's voice picks up the

narration.

WIDE ANGLE - A COMANCHE ENCAMPMENT - ETHAN AND MARTIN - DAY

FALL WEATHER (SILENT)

The camp is on the outskirts of a trading post. Indians watch

unsmilingly from tepees, or in little clusters afoot; a few

mounted braves ride on parallel courses as Ethan and Martin

ride through camp toward the post.

INT. APPLEBY'S TRADING POST - MED. SHOT (SILENT) - DAY

This trading post is in marked contrast to Futterman's --

being well-stocked, clean and presided over by HIRAM APPLEBY,

a resolute, clean-looking man of middle years.

Ethan and Martin -- in winter garb -- are being shown a

variety of trade goods, including a shoebox full of ornate

ribbon rosettes, such as are awarded animals at stock fairs.

Appleby is solemnly affirming the trade value of these, as

well as sleeve garters, etc.

EXT. INDIAN ENCAMPMENT - MED. CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN AND FAT

INDIAN - EARLY WINTER OR FALL DAY

Ethan is ceremoniously pinning something on the stern-faced

buck. It is one of the rosettes seen in the shoebox.

CAMERA MOVES to an extreme CLOSEUP of the rosette. On it, in

gold letters, is:

EXT. INDIAN ENCAMPMENT - FULL SHOT - EARLY FALL OR WINTER

DAY

As the Indian proudly steps back, we see beyond him a half

dozen other braves -- all rosetted. Ethan looks them over

complacently while Martin -- to hide the smile that threatens

to split his face -- bends to pick up a huge bundle of furs.

INT. JORGENSEN KEEPING ROOM - FULL SHOT - THE GROUP

FAVORING LAURIE

reading the letter. She is at the bottom of a page.

She stops and stares.

She looks at them - dazed.

Mrs. Jorgensen, full of sympathy for Laurie, just glares at

her husband.

And with that she crumples the letter and throws it into the

fire.

Jorgensen is out of his chair and scrambling in the fireplace

to recover the letter. He fetches it out, beating the sparks

out. The letter is basically undamaged.

Laurie snatches the letter back.

Charlie crosses the room, picks up a guitar.

Laurie glares at him. He begins chording the guitar.

EXT. INDIAN ENCAMPMENT - MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTIN AND "LOOK" -

FALL OR EARLY WINTER - DAY

"LOOK" is somewhat under five feet tall, pigeon-toed, platter-

faced and wide-eyed. Over her arm is a very handsome blanket.

She is coming forward shyly toward Martin, propelled by a

Comanche -- her father. Martin, with an armful of trade goods --

a few yards of bright calico, a couple of AGED SOW rosettes

and some trinkets -- is indicating the blanket. Look glances

shyly at her father.

He shakes his head negatively. Look is disappointed.

The father points to Martin's pile of trade goods. Martin

bends and picks up the indicated object: it is a battered

high-crowned beaver hat. The Indian grunts his approval and

puts it on. Look looks relieved. Martin reaches for the

blanket. Look takes a quick step backward and holds up one

finger: wait! Then she runs back through the other Comanches

now crowding forward.

EXT. INDIAN ENCAMPMENT - ANOTHER ANGLE - FULL SHOT -

INCLUDING ETHAN

who rides in slowly, leading their pack horse and Martin's

horse.

The name registers with some of the nearer braves. There is

a quick interchange of glances, frowning, hostile.

Martin mounts and the two ride out. The Comanches stare after

them suspiciously, resentfully.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN - MOVING

SHOT - EARLY WINTER DAY

They are riding down a slight grade beyond which (we can

assume) is the Comanche camp.

He breaks and both turn as Look rides over the hill on a

little spotted Indian pony, with her squaw-bag slung up behind

her and her blanket over the saddle. She closes the gap

between them.

Look smiles shyly at Martin.

He gestures for her to go back.

She stares and then dutifully wheels her horse. Martin and

Ethan face front again. Look wheels her horse again and is

right with them. Martin stops - exasperated.

Look just sits.

Look smiles and sets her horse in motion as Ethan moves ahead.

Martin's face is a mask of comic despair as he gives up. He

is mouthing the words --

And Ethan suddenly breaks into song; to the tune of "Skip To

My Lou:"

EXT. NIGHT CAMP - OPEN COUNTRY - CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN - NIGHT

Ethan is wrapped in his blanket roll, head propped by an

elbow, grinning sardonically as he watches a strange ritual

in the camp. The score is softly reprising "Skip to my Lou."

EXT. NIGHT CAMP - FULL SHOT - PAST ETHAN - NIGHT

Look is standing with her blanket folded over one arm, her

head shyly downcast, not far from where Martin (back to her)

is spreading his own bed roll. He sits on it then and begins

pulling off his boots. He is very conscious of Ethan's

watchful scrutiny. Finally he is ready. He lies back on his

blanket. At once Look is at his side to spread her own

blanket. Martin sits bolt upright and tugs his blanket free

and wraps it protectively around him. She stares at him,

puzzled.

She nods her understanding, hurries off to fetch a canteen.

Martin glares at Ethan.

Look returns with the canteen, hands it to Martin and kneels

beside him. He looks at her sympathetically.

And now Look speaks for the first time. She indicates herself.

Now she jabbers in Comanche and, at the appropriate time,

will point to the sky and imitate a bird flying.

Martin looks blank, but Ethan chuckles.

She nods and smiles and quickly settles alongside him and

spreads her blanket over them both. Martin recoils, plants

his foot in the small of her back and sends her sprawling.

Ethan busts a gut laughing. Martin jumps to his feet, angrily.

Ethan stares at the girl. Her face is suddenly impassive as

she looks from Martin to the ground.

He gets to his feet and he crosses to stand before her. So

does Martin.

She stares sullenly, not answering.

She stands... She indicates Martin. She indicates herself.

She looks gravely from Ethan to Martin. Then, with impassive

face, she bends swiftly, picks up her blanket and walks away

from them to choose her own sleeping place. The two men don't

know what to make of it.

EXT. CAMP - OPEN COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN -

MORNING

It is the same scene the following morning. The men are

standing above where Look had bedded for the night, looking

at the ground. Clearly marked on the hard ground is a crudely

drawn arrow.

He walks toward their horses, starts to saddle up.

Martin follows.

And Ethan starts singing "Skip to My Lou" half under his

breath. Martin gives him a sour side-glance and continues

saddling.

INT. JORGENSEN HOME - GROUP AS BEFORE - LAURIE READING - DAY

Mrs. Jorgensen is bringing a lighted lamp over to the table

where Laurie is reading against the fading light of day.

Jorgensen's pipe has gone out and he lights it.

137-A

EXT. SNOW COUNTRY - WIDE ANGLE SHOT - TWO RIDERS (COLORADO

FOOTAGE)

The two men are picking their way through a snow-mantled

grove. Martin's voice resumes the narration.

137-B

EXT. BUFFALO HERD - WIDE ANGLE SHOT - DAY (COLO. FOOTAGE)

137-C

EXT. THE HERD - ANOTHER ANGLE (COLO. FOOTAGE)

137-D

EXT. THE HERD - MARTIN AND ETHAN - DAY (COLO. FOOTAGE)

The two men walk from behind CAMERA. Ethan aims, fires and

brings down a bull.

137-E

EXT. THE HERD BEGINNING TO RUN (COLO. FOOTAGE)

Shots cracking out -- the terrified bawling of the bulls --

the beginning of the stampede.

137-F

EXT. MED. CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN (PROCESS)

Martin strides across to where Ethan is firing.

Ethan turns and swings a backhand blow which catches Martin

by surprise and fells him.

He swings up his gun and fires again -- and again... as Martin

stares at him from the ground.

137-G

EXT. THE HERD - LONG SHOT - THE STAMPEDE (COLO. FOOTAGE)

Fear-maddened animals are swinging into full stampede fleeing

the deadly marksman. Rifle shots keep cracking out.

137-H

EXT. MED. CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN AS BEFORE (PROCESS)

The thunder of the hooves is receding and Ethan grimly lowers

his rifle. Martin picks himself up -- still staring at Ethan

as though at a madman. Ethan turns and looks at him.

He whips out his shinning knife and strides toward the dead

buffalo o.s. Martin looks after him with troubled expression.

Suddenly he hears something, borne faint by the wind.

Ethan turns. Now faintly, little more than a shred of sound,

is the distant blowing of a bugle.

Ethan stares -- and then the bugle sound repeats and the

distant crack of shots, from long miles off.

And the two break and run for their horses.

OMITTED

EXT. A RIVER - WIDE ANGLE - CAVALRY CROSSING WITH PRISONERS -

DAY

EXT. SNOW SLOPE - WIDE ANGLE - ETHAN AND MARTIN

Horses and riders plunge downslope through breast-high snow.

EXT. BURNING INDIAN VILLAGE - WIDE ANGLE - ETHAN AND MARTIN -

DAY

as they ride in, passing dead horses, a few bodies of men.

Ethan has dismounted in front of one of the tepees, heads

inside.

INT. TEPEE - FULL SHOT - DAY

as Ethan enters. A body -- Look's -- is sprawled on the

ground. He crosses, turns her over. Martin enters behind

him.

He sees something clutched in her hand. He stoops quickly.

Ethan, who has turned indifferently to leave, pauses.

Martin shows him what Look had been clutching -- Debbie's

rag doll.

Ethan snatches it, stares at it. Then he turns and runs from

the tepee. Martin stares at Look's body, then covers it with

a robe.

He turns and then slowly heads out.

EXT. THE TEPEE - ETHAN AND MARTIN

Ethan stands there, his expression bleak, looking at the

scene. Martin joins him.

Ethan isn't thinking of that at all.

They start away -- fast.

EXT. SNOW COUNTRY - WIDE ANGLE - THE CAVALRY AND PRISONERS -

DAY

A long line stretching across the landscape -- women falling

and being prodded along by their captors. From behind CAMERA

ride Ethan and Martin and move to intercept the column.

EXT. THE COLUMN - FULL SHOT - DAY

as Ethan and Martin come closer and look at the shawled

prisoners stumbling along.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN - DAY

as a young OFFICER spurs out of the column and rides toward

them.

The officer spurs out to rejoin the column. Martin looks at

Ethan, his face alive with hope. But Ethan is just looking

stonily along the line of passing prisoners.

EXT. THE NOKONI AGENCY - WIDE ANGLE - DAY

The column of cavalry and prisoners enters the agency

(COLORADO FOOTAGE). We see the dead and wounded on travois;

the agency Indians watching stoically; the prisoners -- some

of them -- being herded into a chapel.

INT. OFFICE OF NOKONI AGENCY - FULL SHOT - DAY

The office has been set up as a temporary army headquarters.

The GENERAL is being interviewed by two Eastern newspaper

CORRESPONDENTS. At a table beyond is a telegrapher, sending

out a report of the victory.

A pot-bellied stove supplies heat and the General is warming

his hands at it, intermittently. An adjutant is rather wearily

filling out a long official form.

The General, for all his mudded boots remains a beau sabreur

and is loosely modeled upon a certain other well-known glory

hunter of the Indian wars. He wears a colonel's straps, but

insists upon his brevet rank.

Ethan and Martin enter, stand in the doorway.

Ethan ignores him, still facing the General.

Keefer coughs.

INT. THE CHAPEL - MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANGLING TO DOOR -

AFTERNOON

The door is opened by a guard and Ethan takes a step into

the room -- then stops in manifest shock. Martin

is at his heels, eager and expectant. Beyond them stands

Keefer, grave and compassionate. There is a keening sound in

the room -- almost an animal sound.

INT. THE CHAPEL - REVERSE SHOT - FULL

It is a simple log-sided room with plank benches without

backs. Up front is a small box-like pulpit, no altar.

Across the front of the room, set up either on benches or on

boards over saw-horses are four blanket-covered figures --

at least two being the bodies of children.

Squatting on the floor near them is an elderly white woman

with hair hanging loosely down her back and clad in Indian

robes. Standing, facing the newcomers, is a woman who may be

no more than in her mid-thirties.

She is mad -- wild-eyed, frightened, with matted, unbrushed

golden hair, torn garments. It is she who has been making

the keening sound, the animal moans. Now she crouches at the

sight of them and looks desperately for a means of escape.

Two girls are asleep, heads together and backs to the door.

One has light hair, like Debbie's; the other brown hair. The

afternoon sun coming through a high window touches the light

hair.

He has seen the light hair and starts crossing the room.

Now the madwoman begins her screaming, running from side to

side like a trapped animal. Ethan follows Martin into the

room, Keefer behind him. Martin comes to a stop, realizing

the woman is afraid of him. The two sleeping girls stir, but

do not turn.

The madwoman crouches behind one of the benches, looking at

them with frightened eyes.

Martin swallows and nods and crosses to the light-haired

girl. He reaches a hand gingerly to touch her shoulder.

At the touch, the girl is on her feet, crouching -- one hand,

like a claw, drawn back to rake his face. She is unmistakably

a white girl, but she is painted like a Comanche woman --her

ears red inside, streaks of paint accenting the savagery of

her face. Her eyes are frightened, yet full of hate.

Martin stares at him, then realizes what he has in mind.

He fishes the rag doll from under his coat and holds it out

to the girl. She looks at it... and we may almost suspect it

is rekindling a memory -- but then she spits at it. The other

girl laughs. Martin turns away and he's sick.

Martin nerves himself for the ordeal, turns to follow.

Ethan and Keefer move away. As they do, the madwoman -- eyes

fixed on the rag doll in Martin's hand -- begins creeping up

behind him. Martin is torturedly watching Ethan and Keefer

as first one blanket then another is raised -- we will never

see the dead. During this:

Martin stiffens, waiting.

Martin relaxes... and in that instant the madwoman has the

doll in her hands. She cradles it and she croons.

Martin reaches to take it away. But she calmly sits, cradling

the doll, and rocks to and fro, humming a lullaby. He can't

take it. Ethan returns.

They leave.

INT. JORGENSEN KEEPING ROOM - FULL SHOT - THE GROUP -

EVENING

Laurie has reached the last page of the letter, reading it

by the lamp on the table. Jorgensen is knocking out the dead

ashes of his pipe.  Charlie is in the shadows, a guitar in

his hands -- not playing it, but occasionally softly picking

a note or chord. Mrs. Jorgensen is dabbing moist eyes with a

corner of her apron.

She swallows hard, pauses a moment in her reading.

She looks almost too obviously at Charlie, which annoys

Laurie. Laurie resumes her letter reading:

That's all there is. Not a cross on it. Laurie just looks at

it. Jorgensen stands, pocketing his pipe, easing the crick

in his back. He ceremoniously removes the spectacles and

replaces them on the mantel.

She heads for the front door.

Charlie hits the guitar a little stronger. Mrs. Jorgensen

looks at him -- and the matchmaker is at work.

Mrs. Jorgensen smiles and moves about her duties. Laurie has

opened the door and is staring out wistfully... and Charlie

begins playing and singing a verse from "Skip to My Lou."

FADE IN

EXT. DESERT COUNTRY - WIDE ANGLE - ETHAN AND MARTIN RIDING -

DAY

The search theme is heard again as the two riders, with single

pack horse, are heading south through New Mexico.

It is hot country.

EXT. DESERT COUNTRY - CLOSE MOVING SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN -

DAY

Their faces are sun-tanned, burned dark and dry. Gone are

the heavy coats and clothing of their northern days. They do

not speak, just ride -- and there is the same bleak, fanatic,

hard look about them both. The music theme segues into

something livelier and Mexican as we -

EXT. A MEXICAN VILLAGE - FULL SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN - DAY

It is a small place -- a single dirt street, a few adobe

houses; a few racks of dried meat; a burro with a load of

faggots on its back being driven along by a small boy; the

music coming from a little cantina in the middle of the

street. Before the cantina is a bone rack of a horse, without

a saddle -- only a blanket pad. There is something familiar

about the horse and Ethan is staring at it as they ride in.

EXT. THE CANTINA - FULL SHOT - DAY

The two men dismount, beating dust out of their clothes.

Ethan takes another look at the sorry old nag tied outside.

Martin pauses beside Ethan.

Martin shakes his head. They start toward the cantina.

INT. THE CANTINA - FULL SHOT - DAY

as Ethan and Martin enter. It is a dirt-floored room with a

small bar near the door, chairs and benches along the walls.

A pair of guitar players are at the far end of the room. A

couple of Mexicans are playing a noisy game of dominoes,

slapping the dominoes down hard... EMILIO FIGUEROA, back to

the door, spurred boots across one of the tables, is sipping

a drink. Emilio is a cynical, middle-aged, aristocratic-

looking man in modified charro costume. Watching the domino

game is ESTRELLA, lithe, sensuous, smoking a brown-paper

cigarette; she is barefoot. Behind the bar is the proprietor,

dozing on his stool. Ethan takes a step into the room.

The proprietor awakens. The domino game is suspended in mid-

play. Estrella turns... and from beside Emilio, previously

obscured by the man's back and the big charro hat, pokes the

head of old Mose. Emilio turns then to look at the newcomers.

He is on his feet and advancing to meet them. As he recognizes

them a wide, foolish grin splits his face and his mouth opens

and closes in words that won't come out. He grabs and shakes

Ethan's arm, then Martin's.

Martin puts his back to the bar, leans elbows on it and looks

around.

158A

INT. THE CANTINA - ANGLING PAST MARTIN TOWARD ESTRELLA

She is giving him an appraising once-over, then signals the

musicians to play. She rests her buttocks against a table

and waits, her eyes challenging Martin to make a move. Emilio

is watching Estrella and Martin with something akin to bored

amusement.

158B

INT. THE CANTINA - ANGLE AT BAR

Ethan has poured a drink for Mose, now one for himself --

leaving Martin's glass empty.

Martin turns back to the bar to take his glass. He finds it

empty.

He angrily throws a coin on the counter, appropriates the

bottle and his glass and heads for a table closer to Estrella.

Neither Ethan nor Mose seems aware of his going.

Ethan stares at him. Mose nods his reaffirmation of it.

Then Ethan's hand locks on the old man's shoulder.

Mose winces under the grip. He can't speak, but he looks

past Ethan and he points. Ethan turns. Emilio swings his

boots off the table and slowly crosses to them. He lets

cigarette smoke curl out of his mouth. Then he smiles.

As the men study each other, Estrella begins her dance --

and the rhythmic click of the castanets will beat like a

metronome. Emilio looks at the bottle on the bar, disdainfully

pushes it away and imperiously signals the proprietor to

bring something better.

INT. THE CANTINA - ANGLING PAST MARTIN TO ESTRELLA

He is knocking off his tequila and looking at the girl

hungrily. She is doing her swaying dance, playing up to him

and with unmistakable effect. He sloshes another drink into

his glass and, never taking his eyes off her, downs it.

INT. THE CANTINA - FULL SHOT - ANOTHER ANGLE - THE DANCE

Beyond Estrella we see Ethan, Emilio, and Mose at the bar --

gestures, headshakes, the entire pantomime of an inaudible

conversation. Then Ethan takes out his pouch and begins

dropping gold pieces into Emilio's hand. Meanwhile, dance

and dancer are achieving their purpose with Martin. And the

tequila is working. He gets to his feet, a little groggily.

Estrella's smile deepens and there is a clear invitation in

her eyes... Ethan turns then, his deal with Emilio concluded,

and he sees what is going on. He starts for Martin's table

just as Martin moves out to take the girl.

Martin tries to push him away, his eyes still on the girl.

Martin breaks free and squares off.

Estrella ranges herself alongside of Martin and slips an arm

possessively through his.

He turns and heads out. Emilio, who has come up behind him,

gives Estrella a slight smile and bow.

He follows Ethan. Estrella swings her body close to Martin

and lets her arms slide around his neck.

Martin blinks to clear away the fog of tequila and desire.

He pulls her arms away and goes lurching after the others.

Mose catches his arm.

Martin continues out and Mose stands there -- his head rockin'

as though he already were in his chair.

EXT. (APPROACH TO THE NEEDLES MONUMENT) - A BROAD CANYON -

FULL SHOT - DAY

A small pack train (nine or ten horses, six or seven men)

winds through a canyon behind which we can see huge needles

of rock: majestic, savage country. At the head of the column

ride Ethan, Emilio, and Martin. Behind them come Emilio's

cargadores -- lean, hard-bitten wiry little Mexicans. One

leads a handsome palomino. The SOUND of the CASTANETS ECHOES

in the musical theme.

EXT. CANYON - MED. SHOT - HEAD OF COLUMN - MOVING - DAY

Ethan is looking around with grim interest.

Ethan and Emilio both look in the direction of his glance.

EXT. CANYON - FULL SHOT - REVERSE ANGLE - FROM BEHIND RIDERS -

DAY

They are turning a bend and now, ahead, we see a cordon of

Comanches -- all armed, all quiet, all very menacing as they

watch the approaching column. Emilio calls a greeting in

Comanche. It gets no answer.

EXT. CANYON - MOVING SHOT - THE COMANCHE FACES - DAY

The CAMERA PICKS UP the faces in turn, as from the white

men's viewpoint, as they ride slowly by.

EXT. COMANCHE ENCAMPMENT - FULL SHOT - DAY

One tepee stands apart from the other's -- Scar's. Beyond it

are other tepees, the gathering of braves and some squaws,

the drying racks for meat, etc. Emilio leads the way toward

the central tepee. They dismount nearby and Emilio inclines

his head toward the one tepee. Ethan and Martin brace

themselves and wait. The flap of the tepee is closed.

Emilio cautions him with a hand gesture.

EXT. THE TEPEE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - DAY

The flap is thrust aside and SCAR steps out -- the same

Comanche we had seen at the grave when Debbie was captured.

He stands tall, arrogant, eyeing the white men with hard,

implacable eyes. He has a robe gathered about him. Across

his face is a scar.

EXT. INDIAN ENCAMPMENT - CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN - DAY

The white men's eyes are as hard as the Comanche's: this is

the man they have long sought, the killer, the raper.

They cannot mask the hatred they feel.

Scar's hand moves to the scar on his face, and a finger runs

along it.

It is a leading question and Scar knows it. He looks long at

Ethan and the suggestion of a smile touches his lips.

But he makes no direct answer. He looks instead to Emilio.

Emilio quickly turns and calls to one of his men. Emilio is

worried.

One of the Mexicans comes on the trot, leading in the

palomino. Emilio makes a gesture -- giving it to Scar.

Scar looks at it greedily, then nods. He'll accept it.

He looks at Ethan. Again that faintly contemptuous smile.

He signals them to enter his tepee.

He follows Ethan into the tepee... and a worried Emilio goes

along.

INT. THE TEPEE - FULL SHOT

A small fire burns in the center of the lodge and a shaft of

sunlight strikes in from the smoke flap at the peak.

Two chunky squaws, who have been tending the fire or grinding

corn in a rock pestle, scuttle to a side of the tepee. Two

others, one half-grown and the other slightly taller, sit

with their backs to the fire, huddled over some leather work

or stitching. Both are shawled. As Scar enters, he barks a

word to the squaws near the fire.

He sits on some robes, signs for them to sit opposite.

Slowly they look around them.

INT. THE TEPEE - REVERSE ANGLE - AS FROM THEIR VIEWPOINT -

TTE TWO OLDER SQUAWS

They are sitting with heads averted, slightly profiled --

but clearly Indian women, broad-faced, dark of hair and skin.

INT. THE TEPEE - ANGLING PAST ETHAN TOWARD THE TWO YOUNG

ONES

One of the squaws turns -- and even in the shadows we see it

is another Indian face. The other does not turn.

Scar leans in, blocking the view.

The slightly smaller of the young squaws stiffens but doesn't

move. Scar glares.

The girl gets to her feet. Ethan and Martin watch as, still

with averted face, she crosses to where a lance hangs from

the tepee wall. It has several scalps on it, including one

with light red hair. Slowly she carries it back. Scar never

takes his eyes from the faces of the white men, savoring

every moment of it. The girl extends the lance between them,

so that it is like a bare blade separating two duelists.

Neither Ethan nor Martin dares at first look at more than

the scalp pole... Then slowly their eyes lift... and the

CAMERA MOVES IN and RAISES TO:

INT. THE TEPEE - EXTREME CLOSE SHOT - DEBBIE

As the shawl slips back to reveal her light hair, the slant

green eyes looking at them from a tanned, but still white

and very beautiful face. (NOTE TO MUSIC: The SEARCH THEME

should cover all the foregoing action -- but at the first

clear view of DEBBIE, it ends dramatically.)

Debbie's eyes hold theirs -- and then Scar's voice is heard:

Swiftly she straightens, takes away the scalp pole and goes

back to her former place.

INT. THE TEPEE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - THE GROUP AS BEFORE

Scar is watching the white men like a hawk. Martin's eyes

are wide and his breathing seems suspended. But Ethan is

playing it like a poker player.

Scar's eyes are mocking. He lets his robe slip back from his

shoulders, revealing a bare bronzed chest on which -- glinting

in the reflected firelight -- is the medallion that Ethan

had given Debbie. It is suspended by a chain or rawhide

string. Scar touches it.

Ethan smiles -- and he's still playing poker. He stands...

and the others follow. Scar is puzzled.

Scar hasn't understood all of it. He scowls and looks at

Emilio.

Scar looks at Ethan and at Martin. He smiles slightly, and

he nods his agreement.

Martin and Ethan turn to go. Only then does Debbie look

swiftly at them and as swiftly away. Martin can't help but

pause, but Ethan prods him toward the tepee flap.

EXT. THE TEPEE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - MOVING - THE THREE MEN

They emerge from the tepee and begin to walk away -- not

fast, not slow, and without a side glance. Scar emerges and

looks after them -- glowering. A few other Comanches begin

to gather near his tepee.

They reach the waiting cargadores and the pack train,

surrounded by suspicious Comanches.

They mount and ride out.

EXT. SAND DUNES NEAR NEEDLES (MONUMENT) - FULL SHOT - LATE

AFTERNOON

Emilio is standing near his horse, talking to Ethan and

Martin.

Emilio nods and mounts.

He fumbles for a pouch, holds it out to Ethan.

He digs spurs and rides out. Ethan turns and looks soberly

at Martin. We hear the rest of the riders moving away.

Ethan and Martin cross the sand and go down slope toward the

creek where their horses are waiting.

174-A

EXT. SAND CREEK (MONUMENT) - FULL SHOT - THE TWO - DAY

He breaks and both wheel as sand slides from the top of the

dunes. They look up.

174-B

EXT. SAND DUNE - DAY

Debbie is silhouetted atop the dune, looking down at them.

She slides down the dune to stand across the creek from them.

174-C

EXT. SAND CREEK - FULL SHOT - THE THREE - DAY

Her hand cautions them to silence and against coming any

closer.

She hesitates. She looks long at him.

These have been her first words in English... and they bring

new hope to Martin.

Martin turns as Ethan slowly reaches for his gun. It takes

Martin a moment to realize what he is about to do.

He moves quickly then to put himself between Ethan and the

girl and in that instant there is the crack of a rifle.

Ethan is hit in the leg. It goes out from under him. Martin

swings and his gun is out and firing.

174-D

EXT. SAND CREEK - FULL SHOT - INCLUDING THE DUNES - DAY

A mounted Comanche is on the crest of the dune above them --

rifle raised. Martin's first shot brings him down the dune

in a spectacular horse-and-man fall. Debbie goes running

like a deer up the creek, away from Martin; in the same

instant we hear the angry yells of distant Comanches charging

from the far left. Martin turns to see Debbie running away.

Ethan is on his feet now and limping frantically toward their

horses. He shoves Martin ahead of him.

They mount and take off, just as the vanguard of the attacking

Comanches swings around a point of rock and comes charging

toward the creek.

EXT. DESERT COUNTRY - WIDE ANGLE - LATE AFTERNOON

as Ethan and Martin race their horses from the creek area

and down a long incline, as -- from the heights above -- a

dozen or more Comanches, led by Scar, come tearing after

them.

175-A

EXT. DESERT COUNTRY - MED. CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN - MOVING - DAY

Ethan is swaying in his saddle, just barely hanging on, as

Martin races up behind him -- driving Ethan's horse along.

They swing past a huge outcrop of rock and go tearing along

a vaulting wall of stone. Their hoofbeats and those of the

pursuers bounce and echo off the canyon walls, and bullets

whine and ricochet.

175-B

EXT. CANYON COUNTRY - FULL MOVING SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN -

DAY

They swing around giant boulders, up-ended like pancakes.

Ethan is lurching almost out of the saddle, barely conscious.

Martin spots the cave -- ahead -- and drives his mount and

Ethan's toward it.

175-C

EXT. THE CAVE (MONUMENT) - FULL SHOT - THE TWO - DAY

Martin pulls his horse in and swings off just as Ethan slides

from his saddle. He runs toward one of the huge boulders,

crouches and starts firing.

175-D

EXT. CANYON COUNTRY - WIDE ANGLE ON THE COMANCHES - DAY

The Comanches are spread out but coming on fast. One goes

down under Martin's fire.... another is hit in the arm. He

pulls up and the other Comanches wheel away from the hidden

marksman.

175-E

EXT. THE CAVE - FULL SHOT - MARTIN AND ETHAN

Martin runs back from his firing post toward where Ethan has

fallen.

Ethan turns and sees what he means. He starts dragging himself

to the cave as Martin grabs the rifles from their saddle

scabbards, yanks off the water canteens and then drives their

horses away. Then he too runs for the shelter of the cave.

175-F

EXT. THE CANYON - ANGLING FROM BEHIND MARTIN AND ETHAN

Both men are crouching, rifles ready. In the distance we see

their horses running off -- pursued by some yelling Comanches.

Four or six others come into sight, heading for the cave --

moving cautiously, uncertainly -- not seeing their quarry.

Then the white men open fire and the Comanches bend low over

their horses' necks and clear out of there. Ethan looks grimly

at Martin.

He gets an arm under Ethan and hauls him to his feet.

175-G

EXT. THE GAP IN THE CLIFF - PANNING SHOT - SUNSET

CAMERA PANS from the top of the rock chimney to where Martin

is snaking his way through, carrying newly-filled water

canteens. He stands there, listening and looking back the

way he has come; and then, satisfied there has been no

pursuit, he continues away.

OMITTED

INT. THE CAVE - MED. SHOT - ETHAN - HALF-LIGHT

Ethan is lying on the hard earth, perhaps cushioned with

some boughs. He is half delirious. A small fire is burning.

Martin enters carrying the canteens. He looks

unsympathetically toward Ethan, then continues to the fire,

takes a knife and starts to sterilize it. Ethan gasps, mumbles

and then a word comes clear.

Martin stares at him -- and now, perhaps for the first time,

he is fitting pieces into the jig-saw puzzle. He shifts closer

to Ethan and we see he is preparing to dig out the bullet.

Ethan opens his eyes and looks at him.

He poises the knife.

He fumbles in his shirt pocket, brings out a greasy folded

piece of paper.

Martin sets the knife down, takes the paper, opens it and

slowly reads:

Martin shoves him back onto the ground.

He gets to his feet, trembling, and stands looking down at

Ethan, his fists clenched at his sides and murder in his

eyes. Then his eyes rove to the knife lying on the blanket.

He picks it up and he looks again at the wounded man.

And he kneels again to open the wound.

EXT. DESERT COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - ETHAN AND MARTIN - DAY

Martin is hauling an improvised travois over the ground in

which, lashed by vines and some clothing, is the unconscious

figure of Ethan.

CLOSE SHOT - MOVING - MARTIN - DAY

Eyes shadowed, whiskered, drawn -- he is an implacable figure

as he drags the weary miles home. He hears a groan from Ethan

o.s. He barely lets his eyes drift to the sound. He doesn't

stop.

CLOSE SHOT - MOVING - ETHAN IN THE TRAVOIS - DAY

We see he is delirious, lips parched, strapped to the poles.

The travois jolts over the ground. As he passes out of frame,

the CAMERA HOLDS on the marks of the travois poles scraping

across the desert.

OMITTED

FADE IN

INT. JORGENSEN KEEPING ROOM - FULL SHOT - NIGHT

A party is in progress. Fiddler and banjo-player are playing

a lively square dance for one or two sets of dancers --

ranchers, their wives and daughters. Laurie is not in

evidence. At the far end of the room is a table with a punch

bowl set up and a cluster of men and women about.

Jorgensen is at the door boisterously welcoming some new

arrivals. Leading them into the room is Captain the Reverend

Sam Clayton, with a bulky oil-skin package under his arm.

With him is Charlie MacCorry, dressed in his best black suit

and scrubbed until he looks raw.

Behind them come three or four other competent-looking men --

Rangers all of them.

INT. JORGENSEN HOME - FULL SHOT - FAVORING GROUP AT DOOR

Clayton waits for Charlie to come abreast, then hits him on

the back and drives him inside.

Mrs. Jorgensen hurries over, beaming, to admire Charlie.

Mrs. Jorgensen smiles and playfully pushes him toward the

guests.

Clayton -- and the other Rangers -- have been hanging gunbelts

on pegs along the wall. Now he shakes out his parcel --

disclosing a green-black frock coat.

Mrs. Jorgensen glares as he heads out.

EXT. JORGENSEN HOME - FULL SHOT - NIGHT

Horses, wagons fill the yard. We can hear the lively music

of the square dance. As Jorgensen opens the door and sets

out toward the barn, a battered dusty trap drives in -- and

on it are Martin and Ethan. Jorgensen at first doesn't

recognize them.

And then he sees who they are, and his jaw drops.

They stare at him.

He says it as though that explains everything.

Martin throws the reins aside and jumps out. Jorgensen grabs

his arm.

Martin tries to break free.

He heads around the side. Ethan meanwhile has climbed stiffly

down, slightly favoring his leg.

He brushes past the little man and heads for the door.

INT. THE JORGENSEN HOUSE - ANGLING FROM BEHIND ETHAN

as he enters, with Jorgensen at his heels. For a moment, as

he stands there, the party breezes on. Then first one, then

another sees him. They gape, and the music falters and stops.

Sam Clayton crosses to confront him across the width of the

room. Jorgensen tries to be the easy, smiling host--and makes

a very bad job of it.

He can't even finish it but stands there making flapping

gestures.

INT. JORGENSEN ROOM - FULL SHOT - ETHAN AND SAM

-- others gaping. During the opening lines, Jorgensen will

covertly back toward the door to the inner room -- Laurie's

room.

His face contorts and his smile is twisted.

Mrs. Jorgensen throws herself against his chest, sobbing.

Ethan looks past her at Clayton. And the faces of both men

are grim.

INT. THE GRANDMOTHER ROOM - FULL SHOT

The room is dark. Martin is pacing, eyes constantly turning

to the inside door. And then it opens and Laurie is inside,

holding a lamp. She is in her bridal gown and very obviously

trying to keep from betraying the stress she is under.

He just stares at her -- very lovely, strangely remote.

He suddenly is conscious of his dirty hands, his dusty, worn

clothing.

She sinks onto the bench.

She begins to cry, very softly. He is beside her and his arm

goes around her shoulder comfortingly.

And they are kissing through her tears when the outer door

is flung open by Charlie MacCorry. They part as he glares.

Martin stares at him, then at her.

Martin swings wildly but Charlie is a wily fighter. He side-

steps and chops Martin in the jaw and drives him against the

wall. Laurie runs between them.

Martin gently brushes her aside.

Martin nods and unbuckles his gunbelt. The men head outside

as Laurie runs to get help.

EXT. THE JORGENSEN HOME - BREEZEWAY

Charlie waits assuredly as Martin follows him outside.

Martin makes a wild run, swings. The blow is neatly guarded

by Charlie's left and countered with a crisp right that puts

Martin down. Martin gets to his feet, more cautiously this

time, and comes in at a crouch; he's fighting like an Indian,

not a white man. The men from the wedding party come out now

at a run.

Charlie turns slightly and in that instant Martin springs

and drives a straight right at his face -- almost as though

there were a knife in the hand. MacCorry stumbles back into

Clayton's arms.

Martin waits at a crouch as Charlie comes in, feints his

right and crosses his left. It is a hard blow but Martin

recovers and waits... Charlie circles and starts to repeat.

He feints his right but this time Martin springs in, ducks

and -- as the left shoots out -- he grabs the wrist and throws

Charlie over his head. What we are looking at, in effect, is

a wrestler against a boxer.

Charlie is on his feet and warily starts circling -- now

trying to imitate Martin's crouch. Suddenly Martin feints a

right swing and connects with a solid left -- reversing the

order of business. Charlie staggers and Martin follows up

with a wrestling hold, leaping behind Charlie, locking both

legs around him and driving his arms upward behind his back

so that his face is in the dirt and so he could -- under

other circumstances -- be neatly and expeditiously scalped.

With the hands locked, Martin then calmly draws a knife. He

looks innocently into the aghast faces of the crowd.

With that he releases the paralyzed arms just long enough to

grab a lock of Charlie's hair and neatly snip it off.

He stands then and laughs as Charlie lamely gets to his feet --

easing the tortured arms. Clayton goes to Charlie's side.

Laurie moves to Martin's side.

Charlie frowns and looks off at where Laurie and Martin are

standing.

He walks rather unsteadily away leaving a thunderstruck

assembly, murmurous with surprise.

INT. JORGENSEN KEEPING ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

The last of the wedding guests is leaving: Ed Nesby carrying

his bull fiddle and with his wife and daughter and two smaller

children preceding him out the door.

The Jorgensens stand by -- trying to put a good face on the

wedding debacle. Charlie MacCorry is sitting dejectedly,

studying a spot on the floor. Ethan is at the mantel. Laurie

is in her room -- presumably changing out of her wedding

gown. Martin is at a sink, bathing a cut on his lip. Clayton,

still in his clerical coat, is near the door.

Mrs. Jorgensen puts her handkerchief to her eyes -- letting

down now that the guests have gone. Jorgensen crosses to

her, pats her sympathetically.

He leads her away. Clayton faces Ethan.

Ethan casually reaches into his pocket, takes out a gold

coin and spins it.

Martin crosses to confront Clayton.

Charlie gets to his feet and he has his gun in his hand.

Fast hoofbeats sound o.s. -- signalling the approach of a

four-man cavalry detail.

He and Jorgensen head for the door.

A voice hails from outside.

INT. - EXT. JORGENSEN HOUSE - ANGLE AT DOOR - NIGHT

Clayton stands in the opened doorway, Jorgensen behind him,

looking out. Drawn up outside is the four-man cavalry detail,

led by a young and very crisp LIEUTENANT. We may or may not

see the sixth man, slouched over his horse. The Lieutenant

swings off and crosses.

The Lieutenant gapes at Clayton's ministerial coat.

Ethan chuckles, to Clayton's very obvious annoyance.

The Colonel wishes to know how soon you could put a company

of Rangers in the field, fully armed and...

And then he is striding to the door, calling it:

And the old man totters in, half-supported by a trooper --

hollow-eyed, weak, almost delirious.

She tries to lead him away, but Ethan shoves her aside and

grips the old man by his arms.

He staggers and this time Mrs. Jorgensen won't be denied.

She leads him away, at last to his rocker by the fire.

During this, Ethan and Clayton have been mulling Mose's

answer.

Sam Clayton wheels on the Lieutenant.

The lieutenant skedaddles. Sam whirls on Martin and Ethan.

He leaves. Martin's hands go to his side -- recalling where

he left his guns.

He heads for the inner door to the grandmother room.

INT. THE GRANDMOTHER ROOM - FULL SHOT

as Martin enters and crosses to where he had dropped his

gunbelt. Even before he reaches it, Laurie is in the room --

closing the door after her.

He strides out past her.

INT. THE KEEPING ROOM - FULL SHOT

as Martin re-enters. Ethan and Sam are waiting. Martin looks

hard at Ethan.

As they stride out,

204-A

INT. JORGENSEN HOUSE - GRANDMOTHER ROOM - CLOSE SHOT -

LAURIE - NIGHT

as she stands at the window, in her bridal gown, and sadly

watches Martin again going away. Softly the score reprises --

sadly now -- "Skip to My Lou."

EXT. MESA COUNTRY - LONG SHOT - THE RANGERS - DAWN LIGHT

A file of eighteen men and horses -- Rangers -- is walking

under the shoulder of a mesa, keeping well below the skyline.

FULL SHOT - THE FILE OF RANGERS - DAWN LIGHT

They pass CAMERA one by one -- Sam Clayton in the lead, Martin

behind him leading two horses, then the others -- grim-

looking, capable men of varying ages; some with long drooping

mustaches, some in need of shaves, some chawing tobacco.

CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN - AT RIM OF A MESA - DAWN LIGHT

He is lying prone, his hat off, squinting down into a long

reach of desert canyon at the Comanche encampment -- with

tepees set up, a thin wisp of smoke rising from a fire, the

horse herd penned in a draw cut off by an improvised corral

of rawhide ropes.

EXT. THE COMANCHE ENCAMPMENT - WIDE ANGLE SHOT - DAWN LIGHT

The camp is sleeping. A dog yaps shrilly. One of the tepee

flaps opens and Scar steps out. He picks up a stone or a

chunk of wood and throws it. The dog yelps and runs off.

Scar's air is troubled, suspicious. He heads for the horse

herd. The camp sleeps on.

CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN - AT RIM OF A MESA - DAWN LIGHT

His face betrays a bitter inner satisfaction. He looks back

along the trail as faintly we hear the approach of the Ranger

company. Then he squirms back, retrieving his hat.

FULL SHOT - HEAD OF RANGER COLUMN - DAWN LIGHT

Sam, seeing Ethan in the near distance, raises his hand in a

signal for halt and waits. Ethan scrambles down the trail to

join him. He takes the reins of his horse from Martin.

He moves as though to mount, but Martin steps forward.

Sam stares at him, but Martin isn't surprised.

Martin stares, quick disbelief in his eyes. But Ethan's eyes

hold his and there is no doubting the truth in them.

Sam puts his hand on Martin's elbow -- as though to turn him

to his duty. But Martin jerks the arm away.

Ethan looks long and hard at Martin, then reaches into his

shirt for the folded, dirty, dog-eared paper that was his

will. Slowly he tears it into shreds.

Martin squats and starts pulling off his boots. He glances

up as Charlie MacCorry comes over, an Indian blanket in his

hands. He tosses it onto Martin's shoulder.

Then he grins and extends his hand. Martin takes it -- and

they shake as Charlie pulls him to his feet. Martin drops

his hat, and then -- at a crouching run -- he heads for the

distant Comanche camp.

FULL SHOT - FROM BEHIND CLAYTON AND ETHAN, TOWARD MARTIN

as he runs downslope under the shelter of the hogback toward

the unseen camp. Clayton waves an arm at his men and starts

leading out -- in a somewhat different direction.

FULL SHOT - THE RANGERS, FAVORING CLAYTON AND ETHAN

They are leading their horses down the slope, still under

the lee of the butte, when two riders are seen approaching

at a fast gallop -- Lt. Greenhill and his courier. (The latter

is a bugler).

Sam whips off his hat and makes frantic signals to Greenhill

to shut up. Greenhill pulls to a canter, puzzled, and rides

in.

He starts away. Greenhill follows.

He whips out his sabre -- to the imminent peril of Captain

Sam who quickly shifts out of the way.

Then Sam continues away and the Rangers after him.

EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF COMANCHE CAMP - FULL SHOT - DAWN LIGHT

Martin runs from behind CAMERA and dodges behind a rock. The

camp is still asleep, very quiet. Martin runs out from behind

the rock and makes another short dash toward the camp,

dropping behind a pile of blankets or other impedimenta. A

dog runs out of one of the tepees, begins barking.

EXT. THE HORSE HERD - MED. CLOSE SHOT - SCAR

He stands with another Comanche -- inspecting the horse lines.

In the near distance the dog's barking is heard -- shrill,

insistent. Scar, almost like an animal, sniffs the air

suspiciously. The other Comanche laughs.

Scar isn't satisfied but returns to his work.

EXT. THE COMANCHE CAMP - ANGLE FAVORING SCAR'S TEPEE PAST

MARTIN

He is staring at it -- remembering it from certain distinct

decorations. The lower part of the tepee is rolled up, for

better air circulation. Martin wraps Charlie's blanket around

him and begins walking to the tepee.

EXT. THE LEE OF THE HOGBACK OR RISE - FULL SHOT - THE

RANGERS

The line is drawn up, dismounted, the men checking their

sidearms, tightening cinches, etc. Sam moves briskly along

the line of men, then mounts his horse.

The last comes as Greenhill tries to mount, simultaneously

flailing out his sabre perilously close to Clayton.

EXT. SCAR'S TEPEE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTIN

Martin has gained the tepee, takes one quick look around,

then strides in.

INT. SCAR'S TEPEE

as Martin enters. One robe, tossed back, shows where Scar

has slept. Against one wall lie the huddled figures of two

squaws. Two other figures -- one being Debbie's -- sleep in

robes. Martin's eyes go to Scar's place and then rove slowly

and hold on:

INT. TEPEE - MED. CLOSE SHOT - DEBBIE

She moves slightly so that the light strikes her fair hair.

Martin kneels close to her and gently touches her shoulder,

to awaken her. Her eyes open, then widen in fear. Martin

quickly claps a hand over his mouth.

Silently she fights him, trying to pull the hand away.

And then her fingernails rake his hand. He winces and lets

go. She screams and tries to leap up. He grabs her. The other

squaws wake -- begin squawking.

Debbie sees something beyond him. Her eyes widen.

INT. TEPEE - SHOOTING FROM EXTREME LOW ANGLE, AS FROM HER

P.O.V. - SCAR

He looms in the flap of the tepee much as he had over the

grave when he first kidnapped her. He has a scalping knife

in his hand. Scar whips his arm back. Behind him we see the

other Comanche -- the one from the horse herd.

INT. TEPEE - FULL SHOT

Martin spins and his gun is out. He fans the trigger hammer

twice -- and both slugs hit Scar. As the other Comanche leaps

in, Martin's gun speaks again. And then he is on his feet,

catching Debbie by the arm -- unresisting now -- and pulling

her after him through the camp. Shouts and cries bespeak the

awakening of the camp.

EXT. THE HOGBACK - FULL SHOT - THE RANGER GROUP

They are mounted and in line. The echo of a shot comes

bouncing back. Clayton is facing the men. He solemnly doffs

his hat and bows his head.

And shouting the rebel yell, he leads the charge. The yell

is picked up by every man and the bugler sounds the charge

as though he had a regiment at his back. Lt. Greenhill -- a

West Point beau sabreur in strange company -- has his sabre

at the "charge."

FULL MOVING SHOT - ON THE CHARGE

In the swamp of men and horses, we just have time to notice

that Sam is darting a somewhat worried look at Greenhill's

saber ominously close to his back. The charge is sounding,

the hooves are drumming and the men are yelling the way they

did when they rode with Bedford Forrest -- reins in their

teeth, guns in their fists.

EXT. THE ENCAMPMENT - FULL SHOT - AS THE RANGERS HIT

Comanches are running from the tepees, trying to reach their

horse herd as the file of Rangers knifes in.  The bark of

hand guns is a steady sound now -- and the Comanches have

never been up against such marksmen. One charging Ranger

rides down a tepee. Another, with two guns drawn, scores a

running double on two Indians racing toward him from opposite

sides of his fast-running horse. A dodging Comanche screams

as a barrel-chested roan hits him broadside and sends him

sprawling into the embers of the campfire.

EXT. SCAR'S TEPEE - FULL SHOT - ETHAN

He yanks his horse back to its haunches, firing at a Comanche

crouched near the tepee. The charge races past him. Ethan

swings off and runs to the tepee flap, whips it open and

glares. A squaw comes running out at him, knife upraised,

but he knocks her sprawling with a full arm sweep. He turns

and his face is a mask of frustration -- and then he freezes,

seeing what he has been looking for:

EXT. THE INDIAN ENCAMPMENT - LONG SHOT - ETHAN'S P.O.V.

Martin is running with Debbie, trying to pull her along,

while she kicks and claws and tries to break free. (They are

about thirty yards from the camp proper.) Riderless horses

are milling, circling. O.s. we can hear the firing, the yells.

EXT. SCAR'S TEPEE - FULL SHOT

Ethan remounts and heads around the side of Scar's tepee.

In the distance we see Martin and Debbie. The Rangers,

regrouping, are charging back through the camp, driving the

Comanche horse herd.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTIN AND DEBBIE

Martin hears Ethan's horse riding down at them; he turns,

and Debbie pulls free and starts to run away.

He goes running into the path of Ethan's horse.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - MOVING SHOT - ETHAN

as Martin runs and grabs hold of his stirrup, trying to fight

the horse to a stop. Ethan swings on him -- once, twice --

and Martin is knocked sprawling. Ethan rides on, relentlessly.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - FULL SHOT - DEBBIE AND ETHAN

She is running and dodging, trying to escape the horseman.

Ethan has his gun drawn. She ducks to one side and the horse

goes past. Both figures are almost obscured in the dust.

Ethan spins his mount and charges after her. She runs and

then falls -- and he is off his horse and striding toward

her.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - ETHAN AND DEBBIE

Ethan is at the left of CAMERA and slightly closer to the

foreground, with Debbie at the right, supine on the ground

and the dust swirling around her. Ethan draws and raises his

gun. The hammer goes back.

The dust clears. The CAMERA MOVES slightly forward along the

gun arm and HOLDS on Debbie's face -- the eyes gazing

fearlessly, innocently into Ethan's. We HOLD for a long moment

and then the gun lowers. Ethan slowly holsters it and walks

over to her.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - CLOSE SHOT - ETHAN

He looks down at her.

EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - MED. CLOSE SHOT - THE TWO

He extends his hand to her. She takes it and he helps her to

her feet. And then she is against his chest and his arm goes

protectingly about her. They are standing that way when Martin

stumbles up -- and stares.

233-A

EXT. COMANCHE CAMP - WIDE ANGLE - DAY

The line of Rangers is afoot now, each man near his horse,

each man with rifle out, pumping shot after shot at the

fleeting remnant of Comanches riding down the long valley

with their scattered horse herd milling and criss-crossing

in mid-ground... And then as the firing slackens, from afar

we can hear the blare of a cavalry bugle sounding the charge:

sign of the approach of Greenhill's troop.

EXT. THE INDIAN ENCAMPMENT - FULL SHOT - FAVORING CLAYTON

It is perhaps half an hour later. Clayton is very grim of

face and occasionally wincing. His trousers are down over

his ankles, his shirt-tails flapping over his long-handled

red underwear. Behind him Charlie MacCorry is kneeling,

applying some crude first aid to Sam's rump. Beyond them

some of the Rangers are readying for the move-out. Sam looks

up angrily as COLONEL GREENHILL, a guidon bearer, and bugler

ride in. Greenhill is a choleric man.

Charlie just gapes, but Clayton -- grim-lipped -- bends a

meaningful glare on someone off. Greenhill looks that way.

EXT. THE INDIAN ENCAMPMENT - CLOSE SHOT - LT. GREENHILL

He is standing with his sabre at salute -- looking as

miserable as any shavetail would look when in disgrace. It

could be that the end of the sabre has a pronounced bend.

EXT. THE INDIAN ENCAMPMENT - FULL SHOT - THE GROUP

Sam suddenly slaps MacCorry's hand away and grabs for his

pants and pulls them up -- and around a tepee come three

figures -- Ethan, Debbie, and Martin -- with Ethan holding

Debbie's hand. And Sam's face is split by a grin as he tucks

his shirt-tails in and goes to meet them.

EXT. THE JORGENSEN HOUSE - CLOSE SHOT - MOSE HARPER -

AFTERNOON

He is in a rocker on the porch. Suddenly he stares out and

stops rocking. Faint in the distance, but coming closer, the

clop-clop of two horses, moving at a walk. A moment later

Jorgensen emerges and comes to stand beside Mose, shading

his eyes and squinting against the sun, still not recognizing

the distant horsemen.  He is joined by Mrs. Jorgensen. And

then Laurie comes out and she too stares, frowning at first,

then with dawning realization.

Lars and Mrs. Jorgensen also begin to guess... to suspect...

and then to know. And Laurie starts to run.

CLOSE SHOT - MOVING WITH LAURIE

The CAMERA MOVES ahead of her as she runs blindly over the

hard-packed ground, running as hard as she can toward the

still unseen but nearing horsemen.

FULL SHOT - THE GROUP

Ethan has Debbie on the pommel of his saddle, his arm

supporting her, and she is asleep. Martin is riding beside

them. Laurie comes running up to stare at Ethan and at the

girl. He smiles and puts a finger to his lips -- cautioning

her against waking Debbie -- and then he rides by. Laurie

looks then at Martin. He doesn't know whether to smile or

not; he just waits. And then she is beside him and she steps

onto his stirruped foot and vaults up beside him, and she

kisses him just as she had on the day he left the graves to

take up the search. And still holding her beside him, he

rides slowly after Ethan and Debbie toward the house.

