The Seventh Seal

The night had brought little relief from the heat, and at dawn a hot gust of

wind blows across the colorless sea. The KNIGHT, Antonius Block, lies

prostrate on some spruce branches spread over the fine sand. His eyes are

wide-open and bloodshot from lack of sleep.

Nearby his squire JONS is snoring loudly. He has fallen asleep where he

collapsed, at the edge of the forest among the wind-gnarled fir trees. His

open mouth gapes towards the dawn, and unearthly sounds come from his throat.

At the sudden gust of wind, the horses stir, stretching their parched muzzles

towards the sea. They are as thin and worn as their masters.

The KNIGHT has risen and waded into the shallow water, where he rinses his

sunburned face and blistered lips. JONS rolls over to face the forest and the

darkness. He moans in his sleep and vigorously scratches the stubbled hair on

his head. A scar stretches diagonally across his scalp, as white as lightning

against the grime.

The KNIGHT returns to the beach and falls on his knees. With his eyes closed

and brow furrowed, he says his morning prayers. His hands are clenched

together and his lips form the words silently. His face is sad and bitter. He

opens his eyes and stares directly into the morning sun which wallows up from

the misty sea like some bloated, dying fish. The sky is gray and immobile, a

dome of lead. A cloud hangs mute and dark over the western horizon. High up,

barely visible, a seagull floats on motionless wings. Its cry is weird and

restless. The KNIGHT'S large gray horse lifts its head and whinnies. Antonius

Block turns around.

Behind him stands a man in black. His face is very pale and he keeps his

hands hidden in the wide folds of his cloak.

The KNIGHT has risen to his feet. He shivers. DEATH opens his cloak to place

it around the KNIGHT'S shoulders.

A gleam of interest kindles in DEATH'S eyes.

The KNIGHT rummages in the big black bag which he keeps beside him and takes

out a small chessboard. He places it carefully on the ground and begins

setting up the pieces.

The KNIGHT holds out his two fists to DEATH, who smiles at him suddenly.

DEATH points to one of the KNIGHT'S hands; it contains a black pawn.

The KNIGHT and DEATH bend over the chessboard. After a moment of hesitation,

Antonius Block opens with his king's pawn. DEATH moves, also using his king's

pawn.

The morning breeze has died down. The restless movement of the sea has

ceased, the water is silent. The sun rises from the haze and its glow

whitens. The sea gull floats under the dark cloud, frozen in space. The day

is already scorchingly hot.

The squire JONS is awakened by a kick in the rear. Opening his eyes, he

grunts like a pig and yawns broadly. He scrambles to his feet, saddles his

horse and picks up the heavy pack.

The KNIGHT slowly rides away from the sea, into the forest near the beach and

up towards the road. He pretends not to hear the morning prayers of his

squire. JONS soon overtakes him.

He stops and looks at his master, but the KNIGHT hasn't heard JON'S song, or

he pretends that he hasn't. To give further vent to his irritation, JONS

sings even louder.

JONS finally gets the KNIGHT'S attention. He stops singing. The KNIGHT, his

horse, JONS'S own horse and JONS himself know all the songs by heart. The

long, dusty journey from the Holy Land hasn't made them any cleaner. They

ride across a mossy heath which stretches towards the horizon. Beyond it, the

sea lies shimmering in the white glitter of the sun.

The KNIGHT doesn't answer. Close by, a scrawny dog is whining, crawling

towards its master, who is sleeping in a sitting position in the blazing hot

sun. A black cloud of flies clusters around his head and shoulders. The

miserable-looking dog whines incessantly as it lies flat on its stomach,

wagging its tail.

JONS dismounts and approaches the sleeping man. JONS addresses him politely.

When he doesn't receive an answer, he walks up to the man in order to shake

him awake. He bends over the sleeping man's shoulder, but quickly pulls back

his hand. The man falls backward on the heath, his face turned towards JONS.

It is a corpse, staring at JONS with empty eye sockets and white teeth.

JONS remounts and overtakes his master. He takes a drink from his waterskin

and hands the bag to the knight.

The KNIGHT hands his squire a piece of bread, which keeps him quiet for a

while. The sun burns down on them cruelly, and beads of perspiration trickle

down their faces. There is a cloud of dust around the horses' hooves. They

ride past an inlet and along verdant groves. In the shade of some large trees

stands a bulging wagon covered with a mottled canvas. A horse whinnies nearby

and is answered by the KNIGHT'S horse. The two travelers do not stop to rest

under the shade of the trees but continue riding until they disappear at the

bend of the road.

In his sleep, JOF the juggler hears the neighing of his horse and the answer

from a distance. He tries to go on sleeping, but it is stifling inside the

wagon. The rays of the sun filtering through the canvas cast streaks of light

across the face of JOF'S wife, MIA, and their one-year-old son, MIKAEL, who

are sleeping deeply and peacefully. Near them, JONAS SKAT, an older man,

snores loudly.

JOF crawls out of the wagon. There is still a spot of shade under the big

trees. He takes a drink of water, gargles, stretches and talks to his scrawny

old horse.

He has picked up the juggling balls and slowly begins to toss them. Then he

stands on his head and cackles like a hen. Suddenly he stops and sits down

with a look of utter astonishment on his face. The wind causes the trees to

sway slightly. The leaves stir and there is a soft murmur. The flowers and

the grass bend gracefully, and somewhere a bird raises its voice in a long

warble.

JOF'S face breaks into a smile and his eyes fill with tears. With a dazed

expression he sits flat on his behind while the grass rustles softly, and

bees and butterflies hum around his head. The unseen bird continues to sing.

Suddenly the breeze stops blowing, the bird stops singing, JOF'S smile fades,

the flowers and grass wilt in the heat. The old horse is still walking around

grazing and swishing its tail to ward off the flies.

JOF comes to life. He rushes into the wagon and shakes MIA awake.

MIA's voice is filled with gentle irony. JOF shakes his head and grabs her by

the shoulders.

MIA can't help being impressed by her husband's fervor. She lowers her voice.

His eyes are popping with rage. He turns over and continues snoring where he

left off. MIA and JOF decide that it would be wisest to leave the wagon. They

sit down on a crate. MIA has MIKAEL on her knees. He is naked and squirms

vigorously. JOF sits close to his wife. Slumped over, he still looks dazed

and astonished. A dry, hot wind blows from the sea.

He says this smilingly, with a casual air. He stretches and laughs

contentedly.

She yawns. The sun, has made her a bit drowsy and she lies down on the grass.

JOF does likewise and puts one arm around his wife's shoulders.

He sits with his legs crossed, makes a dramatic gesture with his arms and

sings in a loud voice.

He interrupts his singing in order to be complimented by his wife.

JOF is a bit offended and glances over at his son, MIKAEL, but he is also

sleeping soundly in the high grass. JONAS SKAT comes out from the wagon. He

yawns; he is very tired and in a bad humor. In his hands he holds a crudely

made death mask.

MIA is awake now and lies contentedly on her back, sucking on a blade of

grass and looking smilingly at her husband.

SKAT, grinning, holds the mask in front of his face and recites dramatically.

He stumbles into the wagon muttering furiously. JOF sits, leaning forward.

MIA lies beside him on the grass.

Waves of heat envelop the gray stone church in a strange white mist. The

KNIGHT dismounts and enters. After tying up the horses, JONS slowly follows

him in. When he comes onto the church porch he stops in surprise. To the

right of the entrance there is a large fresco on the wall, not quite

finished. Perched on a crude scaffolding is a PAINTER wearing a red cap and

paint-stained clothes. He has one brush in his mouth, while with another in

his hand he outlines a small, terrified human face amidst a sea of other

faces.

The PAINTER points with his brush. JONS sees a small human form writhing in

the grass, its eyes turned upwards in a frenzied look of horror and pain.

JONS sits down with the PAINTER, who produces a jug of brandy.

The KNIGHT is kneeling before a small altar. It is dark and quiet around him.

The air is cool and musty. Pictures of saints look down on him with stony

eyes. Christ's face is turned upwards, His mouth open as if in a cry of

anguish. On the ceiling beam there is a representation of a hideous devil

spying on a miserable human being. The KNIGHT hears a sound from the

confession booth and approaches it. The face of DEATH appears behind the

grille for an instant, but the KNIGHT doesn't see him.

DEATH doesn't answer.

DEATH doesn't answer.

DEATH doesn't answer.

The KNIGHT stops and waits for a reply, but no one speaks or answers him.

There is complete silence.

DEATH shows his face at the grill of the confession booth for a moment but

disappears instantly.

The KNIGHT raises his hand and looks at it in the sunlight which comes

through the tiny window.

He makes a fist of his hand and lifts it to his temple.

Meanwhile, JONS and the PAINTER have got drunk and are talking animatedly

together.

JONS paints a small figure which is supposed to represent himself.

The KNIGHT walks by, calls to his squire and goes out into the bright

sunshine. JONS manages to set himself down from the scaffolding.

Outside the church, four soldiers and a monk are in the process of putting a

woman in the stocks. Her face is pale and child-like, her head has been

shaved, and her knuckles are bloody and broken. Her eyes are wide open, yet

she doesn't appear to be fully conscious.

JONS and the KNIGHT stop and watch in silence. The soldiers are working

quickly and skillfully, but they seem frightened and dejected. The monk

mumbles from a small book. One of the soldiers picks up a wooden bucket and

with his hand begins to smear a bloody paste on the wall of the church and

around the woman. JONS holds his nose.

He whispers this with a horrified face and continues to splash the sticky

mess on the wall.

JONS walks over towards the horses. The KNIGHT stands for a few, moments

looking at the young girl. She is almost a child. Slowly she turns her eyes

towards him.

The MONK stops reading and raises his head.

He nods resignedly and walks away. The young woman starts to moan as though

she were having a horrible nightmare. The sound of her cries follows the two

riders for a considerable distance down the road.

The sun stands high in the sky, like a red ball of fire. The waterskin is

empty and JONS looks for a well where he can fill it.

They approach a group of peasant cottages at the edge of the forest. JONS

ties up the horses, slings the skin over his shoulder and walks along the

path towards the nearest cottage. As always, his movements are light and

almost soundless. The door to the cottage is open. He stops outside, but when

no one appears he enters. It is very dark inside and his foot touches a soft

object. He looks down. Beside the whitewashed fireplace, a woman is lying

with her face to the ground.

At the sound of approaching steps, JONS quickly hides behind the door. A man

comes down a ladder from the loft. He is broad and thick-set. His eyes are

black and his face is pale and puffy. His clothes are well cut but dirty and

in rags. He carries a cloth sack. Looking around, he goes into the inner

room, bends over the bed, tucks something into the bag, slinks along the

walls, looking on the shelves, finds something else which he tucks in his

bag.

Slowly he re-enters the outer room, bends over the dead woman and carefully

slips a ring from her finger. At that moment a young woman comes through the

door. She stops and stares at the stranger.

The GIRL makes a movement as if to run away.

Slowly he closes the door behind the GIRL. The stuffy room is now in almost

total darkness. But JONS becomes clearly visible.

RAVAL smiles uneasily and looks around.

The GIRL stands immobile.

RAVAL looks around.

RAVAL smiles anxiously.

With a quick movement he knocks the knife out of RAVAL'S hand, gives him a

kick so that he falls on the floor and is about to finish him off. Suddenly

the GIRL screams. JONS stops and makes a gesture of generosity with his hand.

He bends over RAVAL.

They walk out of the house. RAVAL lies still for a few moments, then he rises

slowly and looks around. When no one is in sight, he takes his bag and steals

away. JONS quenches his thirst and fills his bag with water. The GIRL helps

him.

He embraces her and tries to kiss her, but she holds herself back. Almost

immediately he loses interest, hoists the waterbag on his shoulder and pats

the GIRL on the cheek.

He laughs kindly and walks away from her. When he has walked a short distance

he turns; the GIRL is still there.

She begins walking towards him, her head bent. He doesn't wait for her but

walks towards the KNIGHT, who patiently awaits his squire.

The Embarrassment Inn lies in the eastern section of the province. The plague

has not yet reached this area on its way along the coast.

The actors have placed their wagon under a tree in the yard of the inn.

Dressed in colorful costumes, they perform a farce.

The spectators watch the performance, commenting on it noisily. There are

merchants with fat, beer-sweaty faces, apprentices and journeymen, farmhands

and milkmaids. A whole flock of children perch in the trees around the wagon.

The KNIGHT and his squire have sat down in the shadow of a wall. They drink

beer and doze in the midday heat. The GIRL from the deserted village sleeps

at JONS'S side. SKAT beats the drums, JOF blows the flute, MIA performs a gay

and lively dance. They perspire under the hot white sun. When they have

finished SKAT comes forward and bows.

MIA and JOF have quickly changed costumes and again step out on the stage.

They bow, to the public.

He places his leg in front of JOF as if to trip him, raises MIA's skirt,

makes a face as if he could see all the wonders of the world underneath it,

and disappears behind the gaudily patched curtains.

SKAT is very handsome, now that he can see himself in the reflection of a tin

washbowl. His hair is tightly curled, his eyebrows are beautifully bushy,

glittering earrings vie for equal attention with his teeth, and his cheeks

are flushed rose red.

He sits out in back on the tailboard of the wagon, dangling his legs and

whistling to himself.

In the meantime JOF and MIA play their tragedy; it is not, however, received

with great acclaim. SKAT suddenly discovers that someone is watching him as

he gazes contentedly into the tin bowl. A woman stands there, stately in both

height and volume.

SKAT frowns, toys with his small dagger and occasionally throws a roguish but

fiery glance at the beautiful visitor. She suddenly discovers that one of her

shoes doesn't quite fit. She leans down to fix it and in doing so allows her

generous bosom to burst out of its prison -- no more than honor and chastity

allow, but still enough so that the actor with his experienced eye

immediately sees that there are ample rewards to be had here.

Now she comes a little closer, kneels down and opens a bundle containing

several dainty morsels and a skin filled with red wine. JONAS SKAT manages

not to fall off the wagon in his excitement. Standing on the steps of the

wagon, he supports himself against a nearby tree, crosses his legs and bows.

The woman quietly bites into a chicken leg dripping with fat. At this moment

the actor is stricken by a radiant glance full of lustful appetites.

When he sees this look, SKAT makes an instantaneous decision, jumps down from

the wagon and kneels in front of the blushing damsel.

She becomes weak and faint from his nearness, looks at him with a glassy

glance and breathes heavily. SKAT doesn't neglect to press kisses on her

small, chubby hands. The sun shines brightly and small birds make noises in

the bushes.

Now she is forced to sit back; her legs seem unwilling to support her any

longer. Bewildered, she singles out another chicken leg from the large sack

of food and holds it up in front of SKAT with an appealing and triumphant

expression, as if it were her maidenhood being offered as a prize.

SKAT hesitates momentarily, but he is still the strategist. He lets the

chicken leg fall to the grass, and murmurs in the woman's rosy ear.

His words seem to please her. She puts her arms around the actor's neck and

pulls him to her with such fierceness that both of them lose their balance

and tumble down on the soft grass. The small birds take to their wings with

frightened shrieks.

JOF stands in the hot sun with a flickering lantern in his hand. MIA pretends

to be asleep on a bench which has been pulled forward on the stage.

This opinion causes mirth in the audience. JOF becomes slightly confused and

goes out of character, but MIA keeps her head and begins snoring.

JOF hides himself. MIA immediately ends her snoring and sits up, looking to

the left.

She becomes silent and looks wide-eyed in front of her. The mood in the yard

in front of the inn has, up to now, been rather lighthearted despite the

heat.

Now a rapid change occurs. People who had been laughing and chattering fall

silent. Their faces seem to pale under their sunbrowned skins, the children

stop their games and stand with gaping mouths and frightened eyes.

JOF steps out in front of the curtain. His painted face bears an expression

of horror. MIA has risen with MIKAEL in her arms. Some of the women in the

yard have fallen on their knees, others hide their faces, many begin to

mutter half-forgotten prayers.

All have turned their faces towards the white road. Now a shrill song is

heard. It is frenzied, almost a scream. A crucified Christ sways above the

hilltop.

The cross-bearers soon come into sight. They are Dominican monks, their hoods

pulled down over their faces. More and more of them follow, carrying litters

with heavy coffins or clutching holy relics, their hands stretched out

spasmodically. The dust wells up around their black hoods; the censers sway

and emit a thick, ashen smoke which smells of rancid herbs.

After the line of monks comes another procession. It is a column of men,

boys, old men, women, girls, children. All of them have steel-edged scourges

in their hands with which they whip themselves and each other, howling

ecstatically. They twist in pain; their eyes bulge wildly; their lips are

gnawed to shreds and dripping with foam. They have been seized by madness.

They bite their own hands and arms, whip each other in violent, almost

rhythmic outbursts. Throughout it all the shrill song howls from their

bursting throats. Many sway and fall, lift themselves up again, support each

other and help each other to intensify the scourging.

Now the procession pauses at the crossroads in front of the inn. The monks

fall on their knees, hiding their faces with clenched hands, arms pressed

tightly together. Their song never stops. The Christ figure on its timbered

cross is raised above the heads of the crowd. It is not Christ triumphant,

but the suffering Jesus with the sores, the blood, the hammered nails and the

face in convulsive pain. The Son of God, nailed on the wood of the cross,

suffering scorn and shame.

The penitents have now sunk down in the dirt of the road. They collapse where

they stood like slaughtered cattle. Their screams rise with the song of the

monks, through misty clouds of incense, towards the white fire of the sun.

A large square monk rises from his knees and reveals his face, which is red-

brown from the sun. His eyes glitter; his voice is thick with impotent scorn.

The MONK falls silent, looking around with a bitter face and a cold, scornful

glance. Now, he clenches his hands, straddles the ground and turns his face

upwards.

He makes the sign of the cross over the crowd and then begins a new song in a

strong voice. The monks rise and join in the song. As if driven by some

superhuman force, the penitents begin to whip themselves again, still wailing

and moaning.

The procession continues. New members have joined the rear of the column;

others who were unable to go on lie weeping in the dust of the road. JONS the

squire drinks his beer.

The KNIGHT grins tiredly.

He leans down over the GIRL as she crouches at his feet and pats her on the

head. The KNIGHT drinks his beer silently.

The beer mug is empty. Sighing, JONS gets to his feet. The GIRL follows him

like a shadow.

In the yard he meets a large man with a sooty face and a dark expression. He

stops JONS with a roar.

The smith sighs sadly and goes inside.

The inn is very small and full of people eating and drinking to forget their

newly aroused fears of eternity. In the open fireplace a roasting pig turns

on an iron spit. The sun shines outside the casement window, its sharp rays

piercing the darkness of the room, which is thick with fumes and

perspiration.

They whisper in low tones and sit close to each other.

PLOG, the smith, shoves his way into a place next to JOF, who is still

dressed in his costume. Opposite him sits RAVAL, leaning slightly forward,

his face perspiring heavily. RAVAL rolls an armlet out on the table.

Now RAVAL enters the discussion. He is slightly drunk and his voice is shrill

and evil.

PLOG bangs his hands down on the table so that the dishes jump. He gets up.

The room becomes silent. JOF looks around, but there is no exit, no way to

escape. He puts his hands on the table. Suddenly a knife flashes through the

air and sinks into the table top between his fingers.

JOF snatches away his hands and raises his head. He looks half surprised, as

if the truth had just become apparent to him.

JOF looks from one face to another, but no one seems ready to help him or

come to his defense.

Trembling, JOF rises. He opens his mouth as if to say something, but not a

word comes out.

JOF gets up on the table and stands on his head. A hand pushes him forward so

that he collapses on the floor. PLOG rises, pulls him to his feet with one

hand.

PLOG beats him so furiously that JOF flies across the table. RAVAL leans over

him.

RAVAL prods JOF lightly with the knife point. JOF gets up with cold sweat on

his cheeks and forehead, frightened half to death. He begins to jump and hop

on top of the tables, swinging his arms and legs and making grotesque faces.

Some laugh, but most of the people sit silently. JOF gasps as if his lungs

were about to burst. He sinks to his knees, and someone pours beer over him.

At that moment the door opens and JONS enters. JOF sees his chance and steals

out. RAVAL intends to follow him, but suddenly stops. JONS and RAVAL look at

each other.

RAVAL steps back without speaking.

JONS raises his knife and cuts RAVAL from forehead to cheek. RAVAL staggers

towards the wall.

The hot day has become night. Singing and howling can be heard from the inn.

In a hollow near the forest, the light still lingers. Hidden in the grass and

the shrubbery, nightingales sing and their voices echo through the stillness.

The players' wagon stands in a small ravine, and not far away the horse

grazes on the dry grass. MIA has sat down in front of the wagon with her son

in her arms. They play together and laugh happily.

Now, a soft gleam of light strokes the hilltops, a last reflection from the

red clouds over the sea.

Not far from the wagon, the KNIGHT sits crouched over his chess game. He

lifts his head.

The evening light moves across the heavy wagon wheels, across the woman and

the child. The KNIGHT gets up.

MIA sees him and smiles. She holds up her struggling son, as if to amuse the

KNIGHT.

She puts the child down on the ground and half rises to shake out her red

skirt. When she sits down again, the KNIGHT steps closer.

She nods energetically and the KNIGHT smiles seriously. Now the shrieks and

the noise from the inn become louder. Black figures flicker across the grass

mound. Someone collapses, gets up and runs. It is JOF. MIA stretches out her

arms and receives him. He holds his hands in front of his face, moaning like

a child, and his body sways. He kneels. MIA holds him close to her and

sprinkles him with small, anxious questions: What have you done? How are you?

What is it? Does it hurt? What can I do? Have they been cruel to you? She

runs for a rag, which she dips in water, and carefully bathes her husband's

dirty, bloody face.

Eventually a rather sorrowful visage emerges. Blood runs from a bruise on his

forehead and his nose, and a tooth has been loosened, but otherwise JOF seems

unhurt.

MIA's anxiety has been replaced by a mild anger. She pats him a little harder

than necessary.

JOF doesn't answer but searches for the armlet. He holds it up in front of

MIA with an injured expression.

The armlet glitters faintly in the twilight. MIA now pulls it across her

wrist. They look at it in silence, and their faces soften. They look at each

other, touch each other's hands. JOF puts his head against MIA'S shoulder and

sighs.

Their son MIKAEL crawls over to them. JOF lies down on the ground and pulls

his son on top of him. MIA gets down on her hands and knees and playfully

sniffs at MIKAEL.

He lifts MIKAEL up and holds him by the legs. MIA looks up suddenly,

remembering the knight's presence.

JOF becomes a little embarrassed and rises. All three of them look at one

another silently.

They become silent again.

They sit down. MIA disappears with MIKAEL.

MIA has returned with a bowl of wild strawberries and the milk, places it

between them and gives each of them a spoon.

She points with a spoon and smiles. The KNIGHT nods, as if he were pondering

some profound thought. JOF eats heartily.

JONS comes walking slowly down the hill, closely followed by the GIRL. MIA

points with her spoon.

He sprints towards the wagon.

The KNIGHT looks at him.

JOF has come out with his lyre, sits on a small, gaudy box and plucks at the

instrument, humming quietly, searching for his melody. JONS yawns and lies

down.

He takes the bowl of milk in his hand and drinks deeply from it several

times. Then he carefully puts it down and looks up, smiling.

He turns his face away and looks out towards the sea and the colorless gray

sky.

He rises, nods to the others and walks down towards the forest. JOF continues

to play on his lyre. MIA stretches out on the grass.

The KNIGHT picks up his chess game and carries it towards the beach. It is

quiet and deserted; the sea is still.

DEATH is about to answer him but stops and leans over the board. The KNIGHT

smiles.

The KNIGHT suddenly stops smiling. DEATH looks at him scornfully.

Immediately after sundown, the little company gathers in the yard of the inn.

There is the KNIGHT, JONS and the GIRL, JOF and MIA in their wagon. Their

son, MIKAEL, is already asleep. JONAS SKAT is still missing.

JONS goes into the inn to get provisions for the night journey and to have a

last mug of beer. The inn is now empty and quiet except for a few farmhands

and maidens who are eating their evening meal in a corner. At one of the

small windows sits a lonely, hunched-over fellow, with a jug of brandy in his

hands. His expression is very sad. Once in a while he is shaken by a gigantic

sob. It is PLOG, the smith, who sits there and whimpers.

JONS pats the smith on the back, quenches his thirst with beer, and sits down

by his side.

JONS nods delightedly. He has drunk deeply and talks with an old woman's

voice.

PLOG begins to cry loudly and his whole body sways in an enormous attack of

sorrow. JONS looks at him with interest.

JONS gets up from the table and strokes his face with his hands. PLOG becomes

very unhappy and grabs his belt.

PLOG gets up and embraces JONS. Slightly drunk, the two new friends walk

towards the door.

When they come out in the yard, JOF immediately catches sight of them,

becomes angry and yells a warning to JONS.

PLOG steps up to JOF, who blanches with fear. PLOG offers his hand.

JOF gingerly proffers a frightened hand and gets it thoroughly shaken and

squeezed. While JOF tries to straighten out his fingers, PLOG is seized by

great good will and opens his arms.

JOF climbs up on the wagon seat quickly and clucks at the horse.

The small company is on its way towards the forest and the night.

It is dark in the forest.

First comes the KNIGHT on his large horse. Then JOF and MIA follow, sitting

close to each other in the juggler's wagon. MIA holds her son in her arms.

JONS follows them with his heavily laden horse. He has the smith in tow. The

GIRL sits on top of the load on the horse's back, hunched over as if asleep.

The footsteps, the horses' heavy tramp on the soft path, the human breathing

-- yet it is quiet.

Then the moon sails out of the clouds. The forest suddenly becomes alive with

the night's unreality. The dazzling light pours through the thick foliage of

the beech trees, a moving, quivering world of light and shadow.

The wanderers stop. Their eyes are dark with anxiety and foreboding. Their

faces are pale and unreal in the floating light. It is very quiet.

Suddenly, out of the silence and the dim light falling across the forest

road, a ghostlike cart emerges. It is the WITCH being taken to the place

where she will be burned. Next to her eight soldiers shuffle along tiredly,

carrying their lances on their backs. The girl sits in the cart, bound with

iron chains around her throat and arms. She stares fixedly into the

moonlight.

A black figure sits next to her, a monk with his hood pulled down over his

head.

The SOLDIER nods sourly. Hesitantly, the travelers follow. The KNIGHT guides

his horse over to the side of the cart. The WITCH seems to be half-conscious,

but her eyes are wide open.

The WITCH'S pale, childish face turns towards the KNIGHT and she shakes her

head.

She shakes her head again.

The SOLDIER speaks in whispers while glancing anxiously at the WITCH.

TYAN nods quietly and looks away. Now they arrive at the parish border. At

the foot of the nearby hills lies a crossroads. The pyre has already been

stacked in the center of the forest clearing. The travelers remain there,

hesitant and curious.

The soldiers have tied up the cart horse and bring out two long wooden beams.

They nail rungs across the beams so that it looks like a ladder. TYAN will be

bound to this like an eelskin stretched out to dry.

The sound of the hammering echoes through the forest. The KNIGHT has

dismounted and walks closer to the cart. Again he tries to catch TYAN'S eyes,

touches her very lightly as if to waken her. Slowly she turns her face

towards him.

The KNIGHT grips the wooden rail of the cart so tightly that his knuckles

whiten. TYAN leans forward and joins her gaze with his.

The KNIGHT meets her gaze. They stare at each other for a long time.

He falls silent. The soldiers work at the stakes; their hammering echoes in

the forest.

The sounds of the hammers stops. The soldiers stand like black shadows rooted

in the moss. They fumble with the chains and pull at the neck iron. TYAN

moans weakly, as if she were far away.

The soldiers pull the iron and the chains. TYAN'S shaven head sways, gleaming

in the moonlight. Her blackened mouth opens as if to scream, but no sound

emerges. They take her down from the cart and lead her towards the ladder and

the stake. The KNIGHT turns to the MONK, who remains seated in the cart.

DEATH turns around and looks at him.

The soldiers chain TYAN to the rungs of the ladder. She submits resignedly,

moans weakly like an animal and tries to ease her body into position.

When they have fastened her, they walk over to light the pyre. The KNIGHT

steps up and leans over her.

One of the soldiers approaches. Thick smoke wells down from the pyre and

sweeps over the quiet shadows near the crossroads and the hill.

The KNIGHT doesn't heed this warning. He cups his hand, fills it with water

from the skin and gives it to TYAN. Then he gives her a potion.

Smoke billows down over them and they begin to cough. The soldiers step

forward and raise the ladder against a nearby fir tree. TYAN hangs there

motionlessly, her eyes wide open.

The KNIGHT straightens up and stands immobile. JONS is behind him, his voice

nearly choked with rage.

His voice sticks in his throat and he suddenly walks away. The KNIGHT mounts

his horse. The travelers depart from the crossroads. TYAN finally closes her

eyes.

The forest is now very dark. The road winds between the trees. The wagon

squeaks and rattles over stones and roots. A bird suddenly shrieks.

JOF lifts his head and wakes up. He has been asleep with his arms around

MIA's shoulders. The KNIGHT is sharply silhouetted against the tree trunks.

His silence makes him seem almost unreal. JONS and PLOG are slightly drunk

and support each other. Suddenly PLOG has to sit down. He puts his hands over

his face and howls piteously.

PLOG searches for beautiful words. He gestures gropingly with his large

hands.

They walk across an open meadow. Here it is a little brighter and the moon

shimmers behind a thin sky. Suddenly PLOG points a large finger towards the

edge of the forest.

The two lovers discover PLOG and it's too late. They cannot retreat. SKAT

immediately takes to his heels. PLOG chases him, swinging his sledge and

bellowing like a wild boar.

For a few confusing moments the two rivals stumble among the stones and

bushes in the gray gloom of the forest. The duel begins to look senseless,

because both of them are equally frightened.

The travelers silently observe this confused performance. LISA screams once

in a while, more out of duty than out of impulse.

Then LISA throws herself around her husband's neck.

LISA sobs with excitement and sorrow. PLOG looks around, a little confused.

SKAT uses this opportunity. He pulls out a dagger and places the point

against his breast.

SKAT looks at the travelers with a pained expression and then lifts his eyes

towards the night sky.

SKAT sinks the dagger into his breast and slowly falls to the ground. The

travelers stand confused. PLOG rushes forward and begins to pull at SKAT'S hands.

JOF leans over his colleague.

SKAT lies in the grass and keeps the dagger pressed tightly to his breast.

The travelers depart and soon they have disappeared into the dark forest on

the other side of the meadow. When SKAT is sure that no one can see him, he

sits up and lifts the dagger from his breast. It is a stage dagger with a

blade that pushes into the handle. SKAT laughs to himself.

He soon finds a likely tree and climbs up into its thick foliage. He sits

down as comfortably as possible and reaches for his food pouch.

He interrupts himself and listens. The sound of industrious sawing is heard

through the silence.

He peers through the foliage. Below him stands a dark figure diligently

sawing away at the base of the tree. SKAT becomes frightened and angry.

The sawing continues without a pause. SKAT becomes more frightened.

DEATH straightens his back and squints up at him. SKAT cries out in terror.

DEATH begins to saw again. The tree creaks.

DEATH saws.

DEATH saws.

DEATH saws.

The tree falls. The forest becomes silent again.

Night and then dawn.

The travelers have come to a sort of clearing and have collapsed on the moss.

They lie quietly and listen to their own breathing, their heartbeats, and the

wind in the tree tops. Here the forest is wild and impenetrable. Huge

boulders stick up out of the ground like the heads of black giants. A fallen

tree lies like a mighty barrier between light and shadow.

MIA, JOF and their child have sat down apart from the others. They look at

the light of the moon, which is no longer full and dead but mysterious and

unstable. The KNIGHT sits bent over his chess game. LISA cries quietly behind

PLOG'S back. JONS lies on the ground and looks up at the heavens.

Now, something moves behind the fallen tree. There is a rustling sound and a

moaning cry that seems to come from a wounded animal. Everyone listens

intently, all faces turned towards the sound. A voice comes out of the

darkness.

RAVAL'S perspiring face soon becomes visible. He disappears in the darkness,

but his voice is heard again.

No one answers. There is complete silence. RAVAL gasps heavily for air. The

dry leaves rustle with his movements.

No one answers. RAVAL'S face appears suddenly at the base of the tree. His

eyes bulge wildly and his mouth is ringed with foam.

No one answers. The trees sigh. RAVAL begins to cry.

His words are choked off by a gurgling sound. He disappears in the darkness

behind the fallen tree. It becomes quiet for a few moments.

Suddenly the GIRL gets up with a quick movement, snatches JONS'S water bag

and runs a few steps. JONS grabs her and holds her fast.

No one answers, no one moves. RAVAL'S sobs are dry and convulsive, like a

frightened child's. His sudden scream is cut off in the middle. Then it

becomes quiet.

The GIRL sinks down and hides her face in her hands. JONS places his hand on

her shoulder.

16

The KNIGHT is no longer alone. DEATH has come to him and he raises his hand.

DEATH raises his hand and strikes the KNIGHT'S queen. Antonius Block looks at

DEATH.

The KNIGHT leans over the game. The moonlight moves over the chess pieces,

which seem to have a life of their own.

JOF has dozed off for a few moments, but suddenly he wakens. Then he sees the

KNIGHT and DEATH together. He becomes very frightened and awakens MIA.

JOF gets up carefully and disappears into the darkness behind the trees. MIA

remains standing, as if paralyzed by fear. She stares fixedly at the KNIGHT

and the chess game. She holds her son in her arms. Now JOF returns.

MIA does what JOF has told her. At the same moment, the KNIGHT looks up from

his game.

The KNIGHT remains silent. He sees MIA go through the moonlight towards the

wagon. JOF bends down to pick up the pack and follows at a distance.

The KNIGHT'S eyes become alarmed. DEATH looks at him intently.

He pretends to be clumsy and knocks the chess pieces over with the hem of his

coat. He looks up at DEATH.

DEATH leans over the board and rearranges the pieces. The KNIGHT looks past

him towards the road. MIA has just climbed up on the wagon. JOF takes the

horse by the bridle and leads it down the road. DEATH notices nothing; he is

completely occupied with reconstructing the game.

The KNIGHT wants to answer, but DEATH is already gone.

A murmur is heard in the tree tops. Dawn comes, a flickering light without

life, making the forest seem threatening and evil. JOF drives over the

twisting road. MIA sits beside him.

The wagon rattles over roots and stones; it sways and creaks. Now the horse

stops with his ears flat against his head. The forest sighs and stirs

ponderously.

They crawl into the wagon and crouch around the sleeping child.

She shivers as if she had a fever. They pull the blankets over them and lie

closely together. The wagon canvas flutters and beats in the wind. The roar

outside is like a giant bellowing.

The castle is silhouetted like a black boulder against the heavy dawn. Now

the storm moves there, throwing itself powerfully against walls and

abutments.  The sky darkens; it is almost like night.

Antonius Block has brought his companions with him to the castle. But it

seems deserted. They walk from room to room. There is only emptiness and

quiet echoes. Outside, the rain is heard roaring noisily.

Suddenly the KNIGHT stands face to face with his wife. They look at each

other quietly.

The KNIGHT is silent. He looks at her.

The KNIGHT nods, silent.

She walks closer and looks searchingly into his face. The smile lingers in

her eyes and she touches his hand lightly.

They all sit down at the table in the room, which is lit by torches on the

walls. Silently they eat the hard bread and the salt-darkened meat. KARIN

sits at the head of the table and reads aloud from a thick book.

Three mighty knocks sound on the large portal. KARIN interrupts her reading

and looks up from the book. JONS rises quickly and goes to open the door.

Now the rain becomes quiet. There is suddenly an immense, frightening silence

in the large, murky room where the burning torches throw uneasy shadows over

the ceiling and the walls. Everyone listens tensely to the stillness.

Steps are heard on the stairs. JONS returns and sits down silently at his

place but does not continue to eat.

KARIN lifts her head for a moment but once again leans over the large book.

They all lift their heads, and when they see who is coming towards them

through the twilight of the large room, they rise from the table and stand

close together.

The KNIGHT hides his face in his hands.

JOF and MIA sit close together and listen to the rain tapping lightly on the

wagon canvas, a sound which diminishes until finally there are only single

drops.

They crawl out of their hiding place. The wagon stands on a height above a

slope, protected by an enormous tree. They look across ridges, forests, the

wide plains, and the sea, which glistens in the sunlight breaking through the

clouds.

JOF stretches his arms and legs. MIA dries the wagon seat and sits down next

to her husband. MIKAEL crawls between JOF'S knees.

A lone bird tests its voice after the storm. The trees and bushes drip. From

the sea comes a strong and fragrant wind.

JOF points to the dark, retreating sky where summer lightning glitters like

silver needles over the horizon.

He is silent. He lowers his hand. His son, MIKAEL, has listened to his words.

Now, he crawls up to MIA and sits down in her lap.

Screenplay by Ingmar Bergman

