GRAHAM DALTON, twenty-nine, drives his '69 Cutlass while smoking

a cigarette. One could describe his appearance as punk/arty,

but neither would do him justice. He is a man of obvious

intelligence, and his face is amiable. There is only one key

on his keyring, and it is in the ignition.

ANN BISHOP MILLANEY, twenty-six, sits opposite her therapist.

She is an extremely attractive woman, dressed in a mature preppy

style. There is a wedding ring on her left hand.

JOHN MILLANEY, twenty-nine, sits at his desk talking on the

telephone. He is dressed very well, sporting real suspenders

with his striped pinpoint oxford shirt and cotton suit. He

fingers the wedding ring on his left hand.

John looks at his watch.

John presses the intercom button while putting on his jacket.

John brushes his teeth and combs his hair very carefully.

CYNTHIA BISHOP, Ann's SISTER, opens her door to reveal the

freshly coifed John Millaney. They kiss passionately and begin

to disrobe. Cynthia bears a slight resemblance to Ann, but

is not as overtly attractive. She does, however, have a definite

carnal appeal and air of confidence that Ann lacks.

John and Cynthia are now having sex.

A pause.

There is a pause.

John and Cynthia are lying in bed, bathed in sweat.

John rolls over and begins to put his clothes on.

John shakes his head.

John stands and begins putting on his clothes.

A silent shrug from Cynthia. John is almost completely dressed.

John says nothing.

John thinks about that.

John looks at her for a moment before heading for the door.

Graham has parked in the Millaney's driveway. He opens the

trunk, revealing a Sony 8mm Video rig and a single black duffle

bag. He grabs the duffle bag and shuts the trunk.

Graham knocks at the door. He is stubbing out a cigarette with

his beaten tennis shoe when Ann answers the door. She is unable

to hide her suprise at his appearance.

Ann shakes his hand.

Ann withdraws her hand.

Graham moves inside.

Ann closes the door and motions Graham to the rear of the house.

Graham heads for the bathroom. Ann heads for the phone. She

dials John's office.

Graham exits the bathroom. Ann quickly hangs up the phone.

Graham sits, his manner pleasantly animated. He gets his Gitanes

from inside his scuffed black leather jacket and looks around

for an ashtray. Ann swallows uncomfortably.

A moment of silence. Graham looks at Ann directly. It is not

a challenging stare, he's just trying to ascertain what kind

of person she is. Ann, to her credit, somehow meets his gaze.

Something subtle passes between them.

Graham smiles. He has an unusual face, a face that fluctuates

between remarkably handsome and just plain strange.

The central air-conditioning switches on. Ann smiles.

Ann looks at Graham and stops. He smiles again.

Ann is fascinated, if a bit overwhelmed.

A pause.

Graham gets up and heads for the toilet. Ann watches him go,

a bemused smile on her face. After she hears the door close,

she can't resist the impulse to take a closer look at Graham's

bag.

IN THE BATHROOM, Graham pokes around, looking through the

medicine cabinet and sniffing towels.

John, Ann and Graham are eating dinner.

John takes a sip of Chivas.

John takes a large swig of Chivas.

Graham sees Ann and John exchange looks.

Ann laughs.

Ann's smile fades. John resumes eating.

An almost imperceptible reaction by Graham.

Graham eats in silence.

Graham thinks a moment, then puts his keyring with its single

key onto the table.

Graham looks at the keyring before returning it to his pocket.

Ann takes her plate into the kitchen.

Graham also stands, empty plate in hand.

John smiles, thinking. Graham follows Ann into the kitchen.

John shouts after them.

Ann looks at Graham.

John, sitting at the table and now toying with his keyring,

nods.

Everyone but Ann is asleep. She gets up from her bed and sneaks

quietly into the guest bedroom where Graham is staying. She

walks cautiously up to his bed to watch him as he sleeps.

Moonlight caresses his face as he breathes peacefully. Exhaling,

he turns over slowly, his back to Ann.

She picks up his jacket from beside the bed and feels the

surface. She brings the jacket to her nose, inhaling his

presence. She then sets the jacket down.

The phone rings. Cynthia answers.

Graham and Ann walk around the room, their footfalls heavy on

the hardwood floors. MR. MILLER, the landlord, stands nearby.

He looks fairly interested in Ann.

Mr. Miller looks at Ann, then back at Graham.

Cynthia lets herself in. She looks around.

Cynthia walks to the bedroom, where John lies naked on the bed.

She smiles, kicking off her shoes.

Cynthia begins taking her clothes off. She places her diamond

stud earring in her jacket pocket, and then drops the jacket

on the floor. She moves onto the bed with John.

Graham and Ann are having lunch. Ann looks to have had a lot

of wine. Graham drinks club soda with a twist.

She takes a sip of wine.

Ann smiles.

Graham nods.

Graham smiles.

Graham watches Ann take a sip of wine.

Graham nods.

Graham takes a sip of club soda.

Ann looks at him closely.

Ann takes another sip of wine and thinks for a moment.

Cynthia is leaving the house. She gives John a big kiss.

Cynthia is not wearing her diamond stud earring.

Ann stands watching Cynthia get dressed for work.

A pause.

Ann says nothing.

Cynthia laughs loudly. Ann, not happy, watches her dig through

the jewelry box.

The Doctor exhales, thinking for a moment.

The Doctor laughs. Ann does not laugh with him.

On a television monitor we see images originating from an 8mm

Video deck. Graham sits naked in a sheet-covered chair facing

the screen. He watches the tape, which is footage of himself

interviewing a girl about her sexual preferences. The

photography on the tape is handheld, relentless. As the

questions get more detailed, Graham becomes more aroused.

There is a knock on Graham's door. He calmly shuts off the

videotape player and stands, wrapping the sheet around himself.

Graham walks into the bedroom to put on some clothes. Ann opens

the door and walks into the apartment.

Graham enters.

Graham picks up an Anais Nin diary and opens it to show Ann

the library sleeve inside.

Ann walks to the table where the video gear is set up. Graham

watches her closely. She looks into a large box of 8mm

videotapes. On the side of each tape is a label. The labels

look like this:

And so on. There are thirty or forty tapes, total.

Graham exhales.

Ann looks in the box again.

Graham thinks for a moment.

Ann looks at Graham for a long moment, then back at the tapes.

Ann nods and absently heads for the door. She gives Graham a

puzzled look before leaving.

Ann is talking to Cynthia on the telephone.

Ann hangs up.

Cynthia gets out of the shower. The phone rings. She wraps

herself in a towel and lifts the receiver.

Cynthia hangs up the phone.

Graham sits smoking a cigarette. There is a knock at his door.

Cynthia enters. Graham looks up at her.

He motions to the box of videotapes.

Cynthia goes over to the box and looks inside for a long moment,

studying the labels.

Graham grabs his 8mm Video camera, puts in a new tape, and turns

it on.

Cynthia, adjusting her clothes, opens the door to leave. She

looks very aroused. She and Graham do not speak or touch.

John Millaney picks up a telephone and presses a blinking

button.

She hangs up. John thinks a moment, then hits his intercom

button.

Graham watches Cynthia's tape, becoming excited.

Cynthia and John are having sex.

Cynthia has an intense orgasm. She rolls off of John, sweating.

Cynthia smiles.

A moment of silence. John is starting to put his clothes on.

Cynthia lies in bed, her eyes closed, her face serene.

Ann lies awake in bed beside John, who is sound asleep.

Ann looks over at John. She slowly reaches under the covers

and grasps his penis. Without waking, he rolls over and turns

his back to her. She returns to looking at the ceiling.

Ann is talking to Cynthia on the phone. Ann looks very morose.

A pause.

A sparse daytime crowd. Cynthia serves a beer to some DUDE.

He puts the money down on the bar and looks at her.

Ann enters the lounge, carrying a package.

Cynthia moves down the bar to meet Ann.

Ann opens the package, revealing a lovely sun dress.

The lounge phone rings.

Cynthia walks to the other end of the bar to answer the phone.

The Dude watches her pass. Then he turns to Ann and gives her

the once-over. He spots the present.

Ann says nothing.

Cynthia picks up the phone.

A pause.

Cynthia hangs up and walks back to Ann.

Cynthia pulls thirty-five bucks out of her jeans. She watches

Ann put the money away.

Graham sits reading a book. There is a knock at his door.

Cynthia enters the room, looking very intent on something.

Graham sets his book down. He looks at her for a moment, then

drags on his cigarette.

Graham thinks for a moment.

Cynthia heads for the tape box. Graham leaps up to stop her.

Graham grabs her wrists momentarily.

Cynthia and Graham look at each other for a long moment.

Cynthia looks at him.

She leaves.

John and Ann lie in bed. The lights are out. Ann is wide awake,

while John is on the verge of sleep. He rolls over and puts his

arm around her. She gets up and sits in a chair opposite the

bed.

CUT TO:

John and Cynthia are in Cynthia's bed, kissing. On the floor,

John's watch reads 3:11 pm.

CUT BACK TO:

CUT TO:

John leaves Cynthia's house and drives straight home, greeting

Ann as he steps through the front door.

CUT BACK TO:

John is waking up a little.

A pause.

A pause. Ann exhales.

A pause.

John sits on the edge of Cynthia's bed, slowly undressing.

A pause.

John doesn't smile.

Ann, dressed in some of John's work clothes (old cotton shirt,

khaki pants) is cleaning the house. Not cleaning like a normal

person, but like an obsessive/compulsive person. Scrubbing spots

that are already clean, vacuuming the same area of rug over

and over, etc. Suddenly, an object lodges itself in the snout

of the vacuum cleaner, making a loud noise. Shutting the machine

off, Ann turns it over and sees that Cynthia's diamond stud

earring has gotten hooked in the take-up roller.

Ann stares at Cynthia's earring for a long moment.

CUT TO:

Cynthia picking up her jacket from beside the bed after having

sex with John. The earring slips out of the pocket and bounces

under the edge of the bed.

CUT BACK TO:

Ann as she sets the earring onto the floor and begins to pound

it with the bottom of a water glass, trying to smash it to

pieces. She soon realizes the futility of trying to break a

diamond.

Ann looks down at herself. Suddenly realizing that she is

dressed in John's clothing, she frantically rips the shirt and

pants from her body as though the material were burning her

skin. Popped buttons skid across the floor.

Clothed only in her bra and underwear, Ann sits in the middle

of the bedroom floor, arms around herself.

Ann, now in jeans and t-shirt, stumbles to her car. Once inside,

she jams the key into the ignition and rests her head against

the steering wheel.

Ann lifts her head from the steering wheel and looks up. She

looks almost surprised to find that she has driven to Graham's.

Slowly, she gets out of the car.

Graham sits reading.

There is a weak knock at the door. Graham listens, not sure he

heard anything. There is a second weak knock.

Nothing happens. Graham gets up and opens the door himself.

Ann stands against the wall of the hallway, her head down, her

breathing deliberate. Concerned, Graham slowly begins to lead

her inside. Impulsively, she hugs him tightly.

Unaccustomed to physical contact, Graham's hands hang awkwardly

at his side. Ann slowly pulls back from the embrace and sits

down. Graham goes to the kitchen area and gets her a glass of

water. He gives it to her and sits in the chair opposite. Ann

holds the glass in her hand, staring at it.

A weak smile from Ann. She drinks, swallowing with difficulty.

A pause.

Ann looks at Graham.

Ann says nothing.

Ann shakes her head.

Graham says nothing.

Ann looks at Graham.

A pause.

Graham opens a new box of videotapes.

Graham turns the camera on.

CUT TO BLACK:

THEN CUT TO:

Street lights are illuminated. Night is imminent.

Graham stops the video recorder. The record meter is stopped at

46:02.

Ann sits beside Graham on the couch. She looks into his eyes,

stroking his hair.

After a moment, she gets up to leave.

John is talking on the phone as Ann walks through the door.

He mumbles an apology into the receiver and hangs up as Ann

moves to the couch, her expression calm.

John moves to sit beside her on the couch. Ann does not look

at him.

Ann turns to look at him for a moment, then turns away.

John's mouth literally hangs open in shock. He is dumbstruck.

John gets up from the couch and begins pacing.

John smacks his hand on his leg.

John is seething.

John walks over to Ann.

Ann says nothing.

John explodes, hitting the wall all around Ann. She cowers

beneath the storm.

John bolts from the house.

Graham stands in the middle of the room with a cigarette in

his mouth, trying to teach himself to moonwalk.

John screeches to a halt, parking haphazardly. He gets out of

the car and runs to Graham's apartment.

John bursts through the door without bothering to knock. Graham

looks up, startled. Before he can even react, John has him by

the lapels.

John punches Graham in the jaw, knocking him to the floor.

Graham feels his mouth for blood as John picks him up by the

shirt.

John roughly pushes Graham into one of the director's chairs,

which topples over and throws Graham to the floor once again.

John looks around. He sees the boxes of tapes and begins to

go through the contents. Graham gets up and runs over to stop

him.

Graham and John struggle. John hits Graham in the stomach and

pushes him to the floor.

John bends over and starts going through Graham's pockets.

John beats Graham until Graham can offer no resistance. He then

drags Graham into the hallway and leaves him there.

John then locks himself inside Graham's apartment.

John walks over to the boxes of videotapes and begins to search

through them spastically. He finds both Cynthia and Ann's tapes.

After a brief deliberation, he decides to watch Ann's. He turns

on the player and the monitor. After pulling a chair up to the

screen, John presses the button marked "play".

In the hallway, Graham drags himself to the door of his

apartment. Putting his ear to the inlet, he strains to hear

what is going on inside.

John watches the monitor come to life.

The image is Ann, sitting in a chair.

John's jaw tightens.

John is literally so mad he can't speak. He watches the screen

in mute anger, his hands wrapped tightly around the arms of

the chair. Graham still listens from the hallway.

Ann hesitates.

John leans forward.

A sarcastic chuckle from John. In the hallway, Graham furrows

his brow.

John stands and throws his chair against the door. Graham, still

listening at the door, is startled.

John watches the monitor, his eyes beginning to water.

Ann thinks. John watches.

John, absorbed in the image, absently shakes his head.

A pause.

John picks up the chair he threw and sets it upright. He sits

down and watches the screen impassively. Graham still listens

from outside.

A pause.

A pause. John is still watching the tape, his face betraying

no emotion. Graham still listens from outside.

CUT TO:

The previous afternoon. We are no longer looking at Ann on the

monitor, but watching her and Graham AS THEY MADE THE TAPE. For

instance, we can now see Graham from Ann's point of view, or the

two of them at the same time, etc.

Ann sits quietly for a moment. Graham watches her silently.

The camera continues to roll.

A pause.

A pause.

A pause.

Graham says nothing. Ann looks at him.

Graham sets the camera down, though it continues to record.

He is visibly upset.

Ann moves in closer, burrowing, her eyes on fire.

Graham says nothing. Ann picks up the camera and points it at

him.

Graham reaches up for the camera. Ann knocks his hand away.

Graham is on the verge of completely falling apart.

A pause. Graham regains his composure somewhat.

Ann looks at him for a long moment and then sets the camera

down.

She moves in front of Graham and kneels.

Graham shakes his head.

Ann reaches out, and Graham instinctively begins to move away.

Something in her voice makes him stop. Their eyes lock. Graham

slowly moves back toward her.

Ann's hand eases out to him, her eyes still burning into his.

Graham closes his eyes, accepting Ann's touch.

She caresses him.

Slowly.

Delicately.

She touches his arms, his face, his hair.

Closing her eyes, she takes his hand and puts it against her

face.

She begins to lie him back on the couch. When he offers light

resistance, she gently persists.

Graham lies back, silently obeying.

Ann touches his face.

Gradually, her hand slips to his neck and she begins to

unbutton his shirt. She watches his face, hoping that he will

remain calm. He does.

She rubs her hand on his chest.

Once again she brings Graham's hand to her face. She moves his

hand to her neck and throat, painting her skin with his fingers.

Soon each hand is exploring the other. Fingers search for and

find hidden areas.

Ann stands.

Their hands remain together, and Graham's eyes remain closed.

Ann moves onto the couch with Graham.

She gently lowers herself into a sitting position on his waist.

She slowly moves both of her hands onto Graham's chest. They

move forward and back, like a lazy tide.

She looks at Graham. His face is tranquil.

Ann quietly begins to move her face toward his.

Soon she is hovering inches above him, her long hair touching

his features.

She lowers her lips to his forehead and kisses him. She waits

for a negative reaction. Getting none, she moves lower and

kisses his eyes. Still receiving no discouragement, she moves

to his nose.

A subtle movement from Graham. Ann waits for a moment.

She then moves to his lips, her luxuriant tresses enveloping

his face.

She kisses him lightly.

She kisses him again.

Graham tilts his head back and she softly kisses his neck.

Graham's hands make their way up Ann's back until they have

reached her neck. He slowly pulls his face to hers.

He kisses her.

Graham is flooded with warmth and excitement.

He caresses her, intoxicating himself with physical contact.

The kisses become more meaningful, and the touching becomes

more passionate.

For a moment, Graham seems about to evaporate in a state of

ecstasy, his eyes filled with relief and happiness.

But his gaze happens to fall on the video camera, which

continues to record.

Graham seizes up and abruptly backs away from Ann's embrace.

Reality slowly envelopes him.

Ann reaches for his hand. He allows her to take it.

Graham looks at Ann for a long moment. She sees the acceptance

and gratitude in his eyes. She smiles lightly.

Graham moves forward and shuts off the camera.

CUT BACK TO:

John watching the tape. There is video snow on the monitor now.

The tape timer reads 46:02. John gets up slowly, ejects the tape

from the player, and heads for the door.

Graham, hearing the footsteps approach, backs away from the

inlet. His eye is swollen, and he holds one of his hands in

a curious position.

John opens the door. He looks at Graham for a moment before

reaching into his pocket for Graham's keys. He dangles them

in his hand as he stands over Graham.

John drops Graham's keys to the floor and leaves. Graham stands,

fighting back tears, and walks into his apartment.

He pulls Ann's tape from the videotape player.

He reaches inside the cassette cartridge and pulls the videotape

itself out, ruining it forever. He does the same to every other

tape in both the boxes. Calmly. Deliberately. Methodically.

He walks over to the camera/recorder, trailing a mound of

videotape behind him. He breaks the lens off the camera body,

and smashes the inner workings against the edge of the table.

He then drops the damaged unit into the pile of destroyed tape,

where it disappears.

CUT TO BLACK:

THEN CUT TO:

John Millaney talks to his colleague.

John dials a number on his telephone.

The intercom clicks to life.

The intercom clicks off.

John swallows.

John hangs up. He thinks for a moment, rubbing his forehead.

The intercom clicks to life.

Cynthia is tending bar. The Dude from earlier is still there,

puffing On a big cigar.

Ann enters the lounge. Cynthia watches with apprehensive

surprise as Ann approaches with a potted plant.

Cynthia moves to meet Ann at the end of the bar. Ann sets the

plant down on the counter. Her manner is diffident, but not

hostile.

Cynthia is very moved, though she struggles valiantly to conceal

her emotions.

Ann begins to leave.

Ann turns back to face her. They look at each other for a

moment.

Ann writes the number down on a napkin.

Ann leaves. Cynthia continues to look at the door long after

Ann has left.

Graham sits reading. There is now some furniture in the

apartment. Bookshelves, plants, etc. There are periodicals on

the table where the video gear used to be. There are no

cigarettes.

There is a knock at Graham's door, which now has a deadbolt

lock.

A knock again. Graham sets his book down and goes to the door.

He unlocks the deadbolt and opens it.

Ann stands in the hallway.

Graham is obviously flushed with feeling at seeing her. She

wordlessly moves into the room, her movements like a slow

breeze, her expression calm.

Graham watches her go by.

She stops in the middle of the room, her back to him.

Graham moves toward her slowly. Sensing him behind her, her

breathing becomes deep.

Graham slowly enfolds her in his arms, his face against her

hair.

She closes her eyes as their fingers entwine.

CUT TO BLACK

THE END

