DARK SCREEN - NOVEMBER 4th, 1968

A darkness where even outlines are not discernible. There is

a dim point of light coming from a dot on the HI-FI which is

PLAYING the BEACH BOYS: "When we could say good night and

still stay together... wouldn't it be niiiice?... we could be

married, then we could be happy, wouldn't it be niiiiice?"

Through it there has been the SOUND of BANGING, distinct and

rhythmic. It GROWS LOUDER as the MUSIC ENDS. There are also

WHIMPERING SOUNDS from a woman.

It BANGS a couple of more times.

It continues to bang until Felicia screams, over the banging

of the headboard. She follows the scream with a few yelps.

Silence. Now the SOUND of the PHONE RINGING.

The PHONE CONTINUES TO RING.

It CONTINUES TO RING.

And it does. It CONTINUES TO RING, killing all other

considerations.

After a moment's fumbling, George finally picks it up.

The GIRL'S VOICE on the other end of the phone can be HEARD

only FITFULLY, when George holds the receiver loosely by his

ear. It is TINA.

He hangs up. Felicia has fished for a cigarette, lit it and

coughed.

This calms Felicia. A pause.

She starts to kiss him, the SHEETS are RUSTLING. The PHONE

RINGS.

George flips on the light.

Bare-assed, George swings out of bed, looking for something.

George finds his keys and has begun throwing on his clothes,

a pair of crumpled levis, and a brightly-colored shirt. He

leaves his shorts and socks on the floor. He's obviously in a

hurry.

Felicia gives him a long hard look as he dresses.

George sighs, shrugs, and heads toward the door.

She starts to get out of bed.

George is a little desperate now. He runs to the bathroom,

tosses her the whole box.

George is trying to remember the rest.

Before Felicia can say anymore, George goes to the bathroom

and grabs the first pill jar he can find, moves to Felicia

and kisses her.

EXT. SUNSET STRIP - NIGHT

George on his bike threads through traffic on the Strip. OVER

this, we HEAR A FEW BARS of THE MAMAS AND THE PAPAS "Monday,

Monday." He pulls up to a signal beside a faded Eugene

McCarthy billboard. Somebody HONKS.

He takes off. Winds through alleys and heads up the hill to

Jill's. It's a shortcut whose precision should make it

obvious he's traveled it a number of times.

EXT. AT JILL'S - NIGHT

George jumps off his bike and pounds on the door.

JILL opens the door. She's shaking.

Jill starts to cry. She ambles into the carport in her

nightgown.

She's not answering.

Jill laughs. George comes over to her.

She backs inside. He moves in after her.

He leaps after her and she screams, delighted. George chases

her into the bedroom. Jill screams. He throws her on the bed

and leaps on top of her, kissing her. She likes it.

He gets off the bed. Jill is fascinated.

He kisses her. They start rolling around on the bed.

George is a little annoyed.

Jill looks a little perplexed.

She hugs him.

INT. JILL'S BEDROOM - LATER

George in bed, beginning to sleep. Hubert Humphrey expresses

opinion at his chances tomorrow on TV.

EXT. BANK OF AMERICA - DAY

A FEW BARS OF THE BEATLES AND "SGT. PEPPER" OVER George on

bike whipping into bank parking lot.

INT. BANK OF AMERICA - DAY

George sits talking, with MR. PETTIS, a bank vice president.

He is perspiring a little. Somebody's breathing rather

heavily. It's Mr. Pettis seated behind his desk now and

opposite George. He's going over something.

Pettis grabs a sheet off his desk, one in plastic containing

rates.

An uncomfortable pause.

EXT. MELROSE COFFEE HOUSE - DAY

Jill Haynes and JACKIE SHAWN, in mini skirts and boots, are

having coffee at one of the interior decorator hangouts

outdoors off Melrose in West Hollywood.

A CAR HONKS. A Cadillac pulls up to the curb. Its occupant

HONKS again, obviously trying to attract their attention.

Jill starts to look over.

LEONARD is now calling Jackie's name. Jackie can't avoid it

anymore.

Jackie looks off and spots a billboard.

Jill looks at Jackie.

INT. BANK OF AMERICA - DAY

George and Mr. Pettis.

Pettis rises, shakes George's hand and disappears. George is

left with MISS MICHAELS, who has been more or less within

earshot of the whole conversation. George is very upset.

INT. OFFICE WAITING ROOM - DAY

Jill thumbs through a Life magazine with Eldridge Cleaver on

the cover, waiting for an interview in the outer office of

the 9000 Building whose open window overlooks a smoggy chunk

of the city.

She's one of so many girls that at first she's not

recognizable. All of them have composites which they carry in

leather folders. They eye each other uneasily.

INT. INTERVIEW OFFICE - DAY

There is the PRODUCER, Barry, and the director, JOHNNY POPE.

Jill nods.

Jill nods.

Pope, chagrined, shoots Jill a look. He's trying to get her

the job.

Jill laughs, a little embarrassed.

She is, too, and Pope can see it.

Jill is at the door. She turns back. To Pope.

Jill leaves.

At the shop on Brighton Way in Beverly Hills. A FEW BARS OF

SIMON AND GARFUNKEL'S "SOUNDS OF SILENCE" covers George

pulling up on his bike.

The street is empty of traffic except there are scores and

scores of parked cars, a few parking lot attendants, and some

meter maids. George starts toward the shop. A pair of women

in colored smocks and huge curlers burst out of the shop.

They look like Medusas. They hurtle down the sidewalk as if

they're running from something.

Then they find their respective cars and begin pouring

pennies into the meters. CLINK, BUZZ, CLINK, BUZZ.

George looks glum. He's walking along the street. A GIRL

stops him. She's driving by in a 3.4 Jag.

Somebody HONKS in back of her.

George looks after her, smiling. Then:

He goes into the shop.

A large gilt mirror on one wall of the shop. It covers most

of the wall it leans against.

An attractive young woman in her early thirties, everything

matching, a real French garden, leans forward INTO SHOT and

looks at herself in the mirror. She studies her image

carefully. She moves closer to it. She seems uncertain at

first. Then as she looks her conviction grows:

She turns back to DENNIS LOLLY, her hairdresser. She takes

his hand.

With her other hand she touches her hair.

Now she and Dennis look into the mirror at her together.

Dennis toys with the calico scarf around his neck. Felicia,

in far corner, waits defiantly. George spots her.

Both Dennis and Tina turn back to the mirror for further

deliberation.

GLORIA tugs on George's arm.

Mary has gone over to the shampoo stand above which are

several photographs of models and one of a handsome young

black Marine in fatigues. George has gone to pick up a razor,

changes it.

George laughs.

George winks at Mary, heads back.

Jill has entered the shop. She approaches George.

Jill stands there now, not knowing what to say.

George looks away.

George moves away from Felicia.

George turns back to Felicia as RICCI comes by. He's near

tears.

He's waiting for George for sympathy. Jill steps away

gathering patience.

George is torn.

Jill returns.

He turns back to Felicia. Jill moves away.

George moves over to Jill.

Felicia is watching them.

Back to Felicia. As Jill leaves.

Dennis stops. He's with the DESK GIRL. Both of them:

EXT. SHOP - DAY

Jill, in street, on verge of tears... moves to her car...

gets in... sits for a long moment.

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

George on bike pulls into office building. The MUSIC OVER is

JEFFERSON AIRPLANE'S "WHITE RABBIT."

INT. LESTER'S OFFICE - DAY

In his inner office.

LESTER'S on the telephone, staring out the window.

Suddenly Lester gives George a steely look. It covers his

hair, his clothes. George is acutely uncomfortable.

George sort of knows what Lester's driving at.

Long pause. George hasn't told Lester what he wants to know.

An awkward pause.

This seems to interest Lester.

Lester smiles. He appreciates this.

The door bursts open. It's one of the SECRETARIES.

Jackie is right behind her. She bounces in, not seeing

George.

In Lester's presence she seems distinctly younger than she

did with Jill. She's startled when she sees George.

Jackie continues to stare at George.

Awkward pause.

Jackie glances at Lester.

George starts to say yes.

He leaves the office, shuts the door, leaving Jackie and

Lester alone. Lester shuts the door.

Jackie looks for a moment as if she's going to get very

emotional.

Lester's a little chagrined now but not much.

Jackie looks at him in disgust.

INT. OFFICE - GEORGE AND SECRETARY

picking up the tail end of this.

INT. LESTER'S OFFICE

By her tone, Jackie indicates she's been saying all of this

for months. Lester repeating it like it's just occurred to

him genuinely upsets her. She's near tears and she's not the

kind of girl who cries easily. Lester's sensitive to it.

Jackie knows what he's talking about.

Jackie comes over to Lester.

She's said it provocatively and like the younger girl she can

be with him. Lester smiles. He's almost benign.

He takes her in his arms and she responds.

INT. OFFICE - GEORGE AND SECRETARY

The door opens. Jackie and Lester emerge, distinctly subdued.

Angie opens her desk and goes through some files, pulls out a

key, puts it in an envelope and hands it to Jackie -- she's

lightning quick about it, super efficient.

LESTER, JACKIE AND GEORGE IN HALLWAY BY ELEVATOR

Jackie turns to stub out a cigarette in a standing ashtray.

Jackie moves back.

The elevator doors open.

The doors close on the three of them.

INT. ELEVATOR

going down. George is looking at Lester, waiting for an

answer.

Jackie looks to Lester. Lester winks at Jackie.

The elevator stops on the third floor. A man in a suit and a

middle-aged woman with a cane get in. They're strangers to

each other. The elevator proceeds.

They've reached the basement and are standing as Bill the

maintenance man, races around the cars to get to Lester's

Rolls.

George doesn't answer this time.

Lester's car is backed up. The door opened for him.

Lester slips Bill a few dollars and takes off, leaving Jackie

and George looking at each other. Jackie shakes her head.

Jackie nods. They walk toward it.

They've reached Jackie's 230SL.

She starts to get in.

Jackie has started to get in the car several times. This

stops her again.

They kiss each other's cheeks, she gets in and takes off.

EXT. SANTA MONICA BOULEVARD - JILL AND JACKIE - DAY

tooling along the tracks in Jackie's 230SL.

JILL AND JACKIE

Jackie pulls away from the signal a little jerkily.

JACKIE AND JILL

Jackie slams on the brakes.

INT. UNEMPLOYMENT LINE - JILL AND JACKIE - DAY

standing there.

Now Jackie has begun to lose her self-consciousness and is

into the story. A little faint edge of nervousness or

something like it begins to take over Jill.

EXT. LESTER'S HOUSE - BEL AIR - AFTERNOON

A gardener is riding a mower around the front lawn. There are

three cars parked in and around the circular driveway.

INT. BEDROOM - LESTER

He slips into a cardigan sweater. His vanity is restricted

entirely to how well pressed and clean everything is he

wears.

He goes out of the dressing room toward the kitchen, passing

Lorna on the phone in the living room and Felicia at dining

room table, hair in curlers, reading Cosmopolitan magazine.

Mona brings her coffee from kitchen.

Lester has swallowed some vitamins in the kitchen. Turns to

her.

He gives Felicia a peck and starts out.

INT. SHOP - GEORGE AT WORK - DAY

George is busy. He's working on ANJANETTE.

The PHONE RINGS. Norman brings it to George.

George seems really surprised to hear the voice on the other

end. Anjanette looks around.

He hangs up. It RINGS again.

Ricci comes up to him ready to cry.

Ricci is stunned. He says under his breath, "I'll throw up"

again and leaves. Mary, her back to George, sits holding the

telephone to her ear.

Mary runs out of the shop, tipping over a magazine rack.

She's exiting front door in a hurry.

EXT. GEORGE ON HIS MOTORCYCLE - MOVING - DAY

MUSIC, THE BYRDS, "TURN, TURN, TURN."

He pulls up to a rustic house. He gets his little case off

the bike and then hesitates. He walks to the door and rings

the bell.

Jackie answers the door. She seems distracted and, at the

same time, a little wary. Much the same, in fact, as George.

Jackie's wearing a robe. They walk into the living room, the

dogs yelping.

She starts to mix herself a drink. She changes her mind,

pours herself a shot of whiskey and hurls it back. She does

it again. When she turns back to George he's looking at her

noncommittally.

George looks around.

Jackie turns to him, honestly uncertain.

George himself is tentative.

Jackie looks around a little at a loss and finally sits down

on the glass-topped coffee table.

George moves in. He draws the drapes back so light comes in

from the backyard and the swimming pool can be seen.

He takes her hair in his hands. The contact makes them both

nervous. She looks away. George continues to run his hands

through her hair.

There is a moment where Jackie is trying to decide whether

she'll let George actually cut her hair.

INT. FELICIA'S BEDROOM AND DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Felicia is throwing on a bandana and wraparound sunglasses.

She seems in a hurry.

She leaves the bathroom, moves quickly through the house to

the kitchen. She passes Lorna's bedroom. LORNA is changing

from her school clothes into a tennis dress. She watches her

mother flash by.

IN THE KITCHEN

Felicia stops. She is holding a dangling pearl earring in her

hand.

MONA comes out from the laundry room. Felicia has called a

little too loud.

Lorna ambles into the kitchen, expressionless.

Felicia flashes out the door and into the carport, visible

through the kitchen. She takes off. Lorna slowly slips a

white swetlet onto her slender wrist.

INT. JACKIE'S BEDROOM AND BATH - DAY

which includes a sauna. Jackie's got on a terry-cloth robe.

George has been wetting her hair in the basin. Her terry

cloth robe is bulky and obviously in the way.

George begins to cut. Jackie winces a little. George notices

it.

The cutting goes on. The bathroom is very close. George has

begun to perspire a little as has Jackie.

George stops and takes off his shirt. He's wearing a purple T

shirt underneath. He goes back to cutting. Jackie's getting

more and more edgy, partly because of George's proximity and

partly because of her concern over what he's doing. George on

the other hand is now less tentative, more focused on the job

at hand.

George stops and looks at her. Both are perspiring freely

now.

Jackie tries to look at her hair in the mirror. George gently

pulls her back.

Jackie doesn't answer.

Jackie looks up slowly. George is still cutting, not looking

directly at her.

INT. JILL'S BEDROOM - DAY

Jill, alone, sits on bed. Gazes into bureau mirror, shaping

her hair. The PHONE RINGS.

INT. JACKIE'S BEDROOM & BATH - DAY

with Jackie's hair considerably shorter. George is sitting

now as he works, his knee wedged between her legs, working

very close.

George has started to dry her hair. He stops. He picks up the

scissors. Her hair is askew still so it's difficult to see

what George has done.

EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD - LESTER DRIVING - DAY

his dark blue Rolls Royce. He's listening to the radio, keeps

switching to pick up fresh news reports.

He turns off Sunset and heads up Coldwater Canyon.

INT. JACKIE'S BATH AND BEDROOM - JACKIE AND GEORGE - DAY

George shuts the blower off. He picks up his comb for the

final comb out.

They're very close and Jackie's moving closer. She's

intrigued, amused and at ease. George is trying to keep some

distance.

She's moving closer and closer, being deliberately

provocative -- to seduce the information out of him.

EXT. JACKIE'S STREET - DAY

Lester pulls into it. He stops, reaches in the glove

compartment and pulls out one of the little airline bottles

of vodka. He pours it into a glass, drinks it. He notices

George's bike in the driveway. Next to him on the seat is a

prettily wrapped package.

INT. JACKIE'S BEDROOM AND BATH - JACKIE AND GEORGE - DAY

George sprays her. He turns her around in the chair to face

the mirror so she can see herself for the first time. She

should look really different, her hair significantly shorter,

and modishly and beautifully cut to her face.

Jackie's lips part.

Her hand automatically goes up to take his. He starts to pull

it back.

She turns and throws her arms around George, kissing him.

It's too much for George. He kisses her back.

George is obsessed. He wraps his arms around her and she

responds, passionately.

They are grappling, pushing and pulling with each other.

George kicks away the stool by the mirror and tries to bend

Jackie to the rug-covered bathroom floor.

She throws her arms around him, kissing him and shoving him

away. George is tearing at his trousers. They are on the

floor now , rolling around, bouncing gently off the ceramic

molding from the sunken tub.

They hit the sauna room door as they're rolling around and

the door opens. Steam comes pouring over them, momentarily

obscuring their struggles. George has trouble getting his

pants down. At the last instant, Jackie gives them a helpful

tug.

Suddenly, the DOGS begin to BARK. There is the SOUND of the

DOOR OPENING. Jackie sits up.

She's frozen with fear.

George is already trying to pull on his trousers. Jackie is

up and clutching her robe, unable to move.

WITH LESTER

He's moved into the bedroom, carrying the package obviously a

gift for Jackie. He's been a little puzzled. His puzzlement

is rapidly turning to suspicion.

Lester opens the door. He's hit with a blast of steam and the

sight of George stripped to the waist, ostensibly working

over Jackie who is loosely wrapped with a towel. George has a

comb in one hand and now turns on the dryer, blowing it with

a somewhat exaggerated gesture.

He shuts the door. Then he thinks better of it. He opens the

door again and takes a step into the bathroom.

George waves the comb at Lester a little impatiently. It's

wet and sprinkles Lester.

Lester shuts the door, feeling a little chagrined, and

relieved. He sits on the bed and puts the present beside him.

In a moment George emerges.

He goes back inside.

IN THE BATHROOM GEORGE AND JACKIE

just stare silently into mirror at each other.

AT THE DOOR - LESTER AND GEORGE

George has his case of comb and scissors, etc., and is

standing with Lester. He's anxious to go.

George just looks at him. Lester walks him to bike.

George roars off on bike.

JACKIE AND LESTER IN KITCHEN

Jackie is cleaning up some dog food. Lester stands there for

a minute.

Jackie looks up and then controls herself.

Jackie goes into the living room and fixes Lester a drink.

Lester follows.

Lester goes over to her to kiss her.

Jackie turns away and explodes.

Lester's now a little intimidated, but even more suspicious.

EXT. LESTER'S HOUSE IN BEL AIR - DAY

George pulls into the circular driveway. COVERED by a few

bars of The Mama's and The Papa's "California Dreamin."

There's only one car.

George gets off the bike and goes to the door. Nobody

answers. He hears the SOUND of a BALL BANGING. He looks

toward the tennis court.

ON THE COURT - LORNA

is banging away on the backboard. There's a basket of balls

nearby. She hits with considerable skill and power until she

misses the backboard and the ball lodges in the steel mesh

surrounding the court.

George is standing there. Lorna looks at him.

LORNA WALKING TO GEORGE

AT THE KITCHEN TABLE

They're eating silently. Lorna has hauled all kinds of food

out of the refrigerators. She watches George as he eats with

some relish. She gets up and goes to the steel-doored

refrigerators.

He slices a piece of cheesecake. Lorna sits down, in the

chair nearest him now.

Lorna shrugs.

Lorna smiles. A pause.

George wants to avoid this at all costs. He stares at Lorna

intently.

George is weary and getting annoyed.

Lorna is furious.

George stops eating. He's not prepared for this.

EXT. SOURCE RESTAURANT - JOHNNY POPE AND JILL - DAY

A scraggly bearded WAITER with long stringy hair sets down

two huge green salads before Jill and Johnny Pope.

In so doing the Waiter drops a wooden menu he's been

carrying. As he bends down to pick it up, he kneels beside

Pope. Pope taps him on the shoulder.

The Waiter looks up, and moves.

Pope nods, Jill giggles. The Waiter goes off. Pope tosses out

a few pieces of lettuce from the top of his salad.

He looks under his chair to see if it was somebody else.

Pope drops his fork in the salad bowl.

EXT. LESTER'S HOUSE - FELICIA - DAY

pulls into the driveway. She gets out of her car, spots

George's bike.

INT. THE KITCHEN

She sees the food spread out.

FELICIA

moving through the house. She stops by Lorna's room. Lorna

has a sliding door, which is closed. Felicia opens it.

LORNA'S BEDROOM

Lorna is sitting on her bed, in her tennis dress but with her

tennis shoes off. She's straightening a string in her racket.

She looks to her mother, expressionless.

The toilet flushes. The sink runs, and George emerges. He's

looking a little haggard.

They walk out to the lanai together and George picks up his

case. There is considerable tension from Felicia as they walk

into her bedroom. Felicia slides the bedroom door shut, an

action which George unhappily notices. She turns to George.

She looks very hostile. She's trembling.

George is taken aback. He gropes for a moment.

Felicia comes to him. She comes to him and touches his arm.

George suddenly flings his case across the room and pounds

his fist into a high-backed chair, turning away from Felicia.

She clearly misunderstands the action.

She moves to the door and quietly locks it. George winces.

She comes back to him and kisses him gently. She kisses him

again with more passion. George tries to respond.

She gently tugs at him, leading him toward the bed. George is

miserable.

As they sink to the bed, Felicia switches on the HI-FI. The

Tijuana Brass begin to play.

GEORGE ON HIS BIKE - LATE AFTERNOON

COVERED BY a few bars of Bob Dylan's "Like a Rolling Stone".

Riding home. He turns down his street and pulls into his

driveway. He gets off his bike and only as he starts up his

walk does he see Jill. She's been quietly waiting on his

front porch, hidden in the shadows of the overhang. She

doesn't look happy. George stops cold.

They go inside. The living room is messy. George looks around

in disgust.

George's outburst has shocked Jill. George maniacally begins

straightening the mess.

He collapses into a chair. She comes over to him and knee

beside him.

REAR VIEW MIRROR - NIGHT

A signal red Porsche cabriolet pulls up into mirror. The top

is down. Under the brightly lit streetlights Jill's blonde

hair and features are VISIBLE.

WITH GEORGE AND JACKIE

in her Mercedes. George still looking through the rear view

mirror. Jackie's a knockout.

OUTSIDE OF BISTRO - GEORGE AND JOHNNY POPE - NIGHT

pull up, Pope right behind George. Parking ATTENDANTS leap

for the doors.

A few photographers of the movie freak variety ask each other

who these arrivals are. One assures several others that

they're nobody.

Pope drives his own car onto the lot.

WITH JILL, GEORGE AND JACKIE

waiting for Pope who is now ambling toward them.

Pope has joined them.

INT. BISTRO FOYER

They clear it to see the long elegant bar, bathed in soft

light, filled with elegant customers.

George looks and sees someone. A fortyish WOMAN, attractive.

Norma comes over, hugs George.

Jackie tugs him by the arm.

BISTRO STAIRS

Jackie doesn't answer. They've reached the top of the stairs.

They're hit by the full force of the upstairs gathering --

black tie, posters of Nixon, Agnew, Reagan, and Murphy,

vaguely familiar faces crossing back and forth, clustering,

watching early returns on television sets that are blaring

from various points around the room. An ORCHESTRA PLAYS Meyer

Davis Society Jazz. Jackie and George hesitate. Pope and Jill

are behind them. Pope jostles George as he stops, abruptly.

George looks around. Pope smiles. He's holding Jill's hand.

George notices. Jill disengages her hand casually, as though

it were necessary only for the walk up the stairs. Jackie

nudges George, forcing him to move into the room with her as

Lester comes toward them. He's stopped on his way over.

The Waiter moves on and they wait for their drinks.

Lester finally makes to them.

INT. BISTRO UPSTAIRS

George turns to get his drink from the Waiter as do Jill and

Pope. Lester takes Jackie's arm.

He draws George aside.

Jackie has heard this last. Lester turns to her.

Jackie puts down her coke, picks up a glass of white wine

from a passing tray and downs it in one gulp, putting it on

another tray and picking up another glass of white wine.

FELICIA

with cleavage carefully prominent in a strapless gown, spots

George. She excuses herself from the couple she has been

talking with and goes straight to the powder room.

INT. POWDER ROOM - FELICIA

checks herself out in the mirror, glossing her lips with a

pale tint of something or other. She gives a final anxious

look, then hurries out, nearly bumping into a lady coming In.

OUTSIDE

she moves through the crowd up behind George, turning him

around.

She kisses him full on the lips, lingering on it.

It is only now that Felicia sees one of George's arms has

been holding onto Jackie.

Felicia looks from George to Jackie and back again.

LESTER

pours his drink on the cuff of a distinguished MAN sitting

beneath him at a table as he sees George and Felicia and

Jackie clustered together.

WITH LESTER AND MAN

Lester fumbles, tries to clean Nate off with a napkin.

He dips the napkin into a glass of ice water and proceeds to

clean off his cuff.

Nate goes back to the TV monitor where Agnew is making some

remarks or commentators are repeating his comment about being

a household word.

FELICIA WITH GEORGE

She spots Jill.

She looks at Pope who is saying something to Jill which is

making her laugh.

GEORGE

is threading his way through a crowd, holding two drinks, one

of them a coca-cola. It's a little more raucous now, with

election returns from the television sets creating a more

festive mood. Now and then someone jumps up from a set and

hugs someone so carrying drinks is a little dodgy.

JACKIE, F.G. - LESTER, B.G., TALKING

Jackie sits alone by the bar, an unlit cigarette in her

mouth. A man offers her a match. She stares at the burning

match as if it's obscene. She blows it out.

The man looks a little shocked, moves on.

GEORGE

has his arm held. It's KENNETH, a red-haired decorator.

Felicia grabs George's other arm pulling him away from

Kenneth. Kenneth looks a little shocked at the ferocity of

Felicia's move.

She tugs him with her.

She takes him right into the ladies room, George still

juggling the drinks.

JOHNNY POPE

watches Felicia and George disappear into the ladies room,

looking over Jill's shoulder. Jill has not seen it.

Jill looks around and stares at the door.

Pope points over to Jackie sitting at the bar drinking now.

Jill doesn't answer.

INT. BATHROOM - FELICIA AND GEORGE

Felicia kisses him.

She pulls two joints out of her beaded bag.

LESTER

only a few seats from Jackie, Jackie staring daggers at him,

Lester aware of it. He's talking to a pair of lacquered

eminence grises.

JACKIE

has taken an olive from an olive tray and hit Lester on the

back of the head. He's finished this little dissertation. He

sees the source of the missile. He grows pale, frozen.

Sixty-four year old bejeweled WOMAN in b.g.

Jackie has now picked up a carrot from a relish tray. George

appears.

He takes her into the next room and Lester watches the move

with a mixture of relief and concern.

INT. OTHER BAR

Jackie is now near tears.

INT. SMALL BAR

She leans on George.

Lester comes hurrying in, sweating, now.

Felicia trips coming into the small bar.

Lester straightens up like he's been shot.

He's genuinely forgotten her name.

INT. SMALL BAR

George actually touches Lester's hair, professional interest

growing.

He starts to fluff Lester's hair a little when Johnny Pope

walks in with Jill to this. Pope stares at them.

INT. BISTRO DINNER TABLE

Dinner is pretty much finished, waiters have begun picking up

plates.

Pope watches Sokoloff make his move.

JACKIE'S PLATE

is untouched. She holds up her wine glass.

George looks at her.

The waiter pours the wine. George looks to Jill, shrugs. Jill

mouthes, 'try and stop her.' George mouthes back, 'are you

kidding?'

INT. BISTRO

SID ROTH has been eyeing Jackie.

Jackie looks at Roth. Roth shoots his cuffs and smiles.

Sid Roth smiles. Jackie smiles back.

She points to George. George chokes on the last of a piece of

chicken. Sid Roth is stunned. He doesn't know what to do.

George is coughing badly. Jackie slaps his back.

HEAD TABLE - FELICIA AND LESTER

Felicia is listening to Lester. The Agnew and Nixon posters

are directly behind them.

Felicia during the above has looked up to see Jackie fawning

over George. She can't believe her eyes.

Now Lester spots it. He's very confused.

They quiet down.

JACKIE AND GEORGE

Jackie's now moving around kissing George on the mouth.

Jill is watching. Johnny Pope is fascinated.

FELICIA

is watching Jackie and George with ever greater intensity,

her mouth growing more and more agape.

JACKIE AND GEORGE

George looks around sweating now.

With that she slips right under the table. It's a

surprisingly fluid move.

FELICIA

almost simultaneously rises, knocking her chair back.

LESTER

sees both moves and interrupts the Senator.

He turns to Felicia and then looks over toward Jackie's empty

chair and literally doesn't know which way to go first. He's

a little like the bear in the penny arcade that is shot and

keeps turning one way, then another. Finally he heads toward

Jackie's vacant chair and George.

GEORGE

his chin to the tablecloth is fishing under it for Jackie.

Lester rushes up.

Jackie surfaces through the tablecloth.

A cheer goes up as some late returns come in. Dirksen is

talking about a new mandate for law and order and peace with

honor.

INT. BISTRO

Lester glances back toward Felicia who is watching him.

George moves to Jill.

He moves away with Jackie. Lester turns back toward the main

table.

INT. 230SL - JACKIE AND GEORGE - NIGHT

driving down Sunset Boulevard. There is a long moment of

silence. The RADIO'S PLAYING the Eve of Destruction. George

gives Jackie a couple of sidelong glances.

George laughs.

She starts to scrunch over and kiss him, then stops.

INT. BISTRO - FELICIA IS SITTING WITH LESTER

fuming. A woman, ROSALIND, is painstakingly and painfully

introducing the Senator.

FELICIA AND LESTER

Rosalind droning on, b.g. She finally introduces Senator

East.

INT. BISTRO - FELICIA AND LESTER

He pats her hand. She gives him a look that could kill.

Glasses are raised, a little dissonant hurrah.

There are now O.S. calls for East to do his Indian chant.

EAST

INT. BISTRO - LESTER AND FELICIA

THE SENATOR

has begun his weird chant, beating out accompaniment on a

cigar box and a pewter vase.

INT. BISTRO - LESTER AND FELICIA

Lester grabs her.

Suddenly there's a rumble in the room and East has stopped

chanting. Several men have stepped to the center of the room.

One of them in a slate suit raising both hands.

There are whisperings and rumblings of 'a bomb' and

rejoinders to the effect that it's a hoax. Nevertheless the

exodus begins and grows to bedlam. Waiters who had been

fawning over jeweled ladies are now unceremoniously pushing

them down the stairs, even going over them to make the

entrance.

OUTSIDE

the emergency doesn't keep autograph hounds from inhibiting

the exit as they try to hold up celebrities in the crowd that

flows onto the street. Jill and Johnny Pope are caught up in

the swirl of the crowd. Pope temporarily loses Jill. He looks

around. Jill taps him on the shoulder.

Pope turns.

Lester is with some security people, trying to find out what

they're doing.

B.G. are several police cars, a fire truck, and the fire

truck ambulance. Lights are flashing.

Somebody shrugs. A CAR HONKS. Lester is pulled to the side.

Then he sees it's Felicia. She gives him the finger, and lays

rubber nearly sideswiping him.

Somebody else says 'who was that?' Lester shrugs.

INT. SAMMY'S HOUSE - GEORGE AND JACKIE

are dancing to a tape of 'Good Vibrations.' George's coat is

off, his tie loose. They are near the entryway and sitting on

a large staircase b.g. a young girl can be SEEN breast

feeding her baby.

George and Jackie are obviously enjoying themselves. The tape

ends. George's silk shirt is clinging down the center of his

back.

He moves with Jackie, where she picks up a coke at the bar.

A black in a caftan with a huge Afro offers Jackie a joint.

She takes a drags, she and George move outside the living

room. As they walk she hands the joint to George who hands

the joint to a couple of girls lying on a low couch by the

door -- all without really losing stride.

OUTSIDE SAMMY'S - NIGHT

There's a long rolling lawn. The lights are soft coming from

the living room, the MUSIC more muted. Jackie, nevertheless,

is breathing rather heavily from the dancing. George is

looking at her intently, too intently for her not to notice.

She appears not to notice.

She turns back to George.

Jackie looks past George into the living room.

The TWINS come up behind George, and Jackie, grabbing George.

The move should be a little startling almost as if it were an

attack.

They grab George and spin him around, temporarily pushing

Jackie OUT OF SHOT.

He turns back to Jackie to finish what he was going to say,

and she's not there. Only a wisp of her cigarette smoke hangs

in the air, and then it disappears.

George looks surprised and disappointed.

INT. KITCHEN

Several tall stringy types are eating out of the

refrigerator, with a couple of dogs eagerly watching, others

are eating hash cakes off the formica counter.

RED DOG sits in a corner, sipping wine out of a measuring

cup. He smiles and looks up to Jackie, who has her arm on his

shoulder. Strobe lights from an adjacent room can be SEEN

PERIODICALLY.

INT. KITCHEN - JACKIE AND RED DOG

George, a little hastily moves through the kitchen, spotting

Jackie. He's nearly upended by a couple, tall man and woman

at the refrigerator. They grab him and kiss him, and he

shakes through them moving to Jackie.

And he laughs. George silently takes Jackie's hand and they

move through the kitchen and out of doors toward the grounds

in the rear of the house.

EXT. BISTRO PARKING LOT - JOHNNY POPE

The crowd has thinned out to a trickle, but Pope's red

Porsche is hemmed in by the fire trucks and a couple of other

cars.

Pope is vainly trying to talk to firemen and policemen to

move their trucks and they keep referring him to someone

else.

JILL AND LESTER

Lester stands, swaying a little unsteadily in the lot. The

Deputy secret service man seen twice earlier, comes on up to

Lester.

EXT. BISTRO PARKING LOT

Lester thinks this over.

Pope and Deputy go off together.

They walk toward Pope's car. The trucks are being driven off.

He heads back into the Bistro. Lester and Jill stand outside

the Porsche.

Lester opens the car door and pulls back the seat. He has a

hell of a time squirming into the back, but tries to be

lighthearted about it. Jill gets into the front.

INT. PORSCHE

The door on the driver's side is still open and Lester's feet

are poked out it. His head is pushing on the canvas top.

Jill turns and smiles, but it's a mistake since Lester's

upper body is almost leaning on her as it is. Lester puts his

hand behind Jill's head, forcing her to hold the position,

almost nose to nose with Lester.

Jill can't really move her head back and Lester is obviously

captivated by Jill's face.

POPE

is heading back to his car. He stops when he sees Lester's

feet hanging out the door.

Pope gets into the car.

Lester falls back and hits the isinglass rear window. Pope

notices.

Jill and Johnny Pope exchange glances. Jill shrugs to say,

gee I'm sorry. Pope nods.

Pope is furious. He starts the car, backs it up quickly,

jostling Lester around as he goes. Lester chuckles.

EXT. FREEFORM SWIMMING POOL - JACKIE AND GEORGE - NIGHT

lie side by side on deck chairs at the end of the pool. The

house and upper grounds are obscured by neat rows of hedges

and all sorts of random shrubbery. Jackie and George watch

the Twins splash and flounce around in the jacuzzi with a

couple of androgenous men. The Twins stand up in the jacuzzi,

arm in arm and half move, half throw themselves to another

end of the jacuzzi.

Jackie smiles. She stretches, yawns.

A pause. She glances at George scarcely moving her head.

Jackie laughs. The Twins have gotten onto some sort of

splashing contest with the boys. Water hits George and

Jackie. They're hit again. They shrug, George rises, takes

Jackie's hand. They walk on around the pool, beside and along

a maze of hedgerows.

EXT. SAMMY'S - THROUGH PORSCHE WINDOW

as the slow moving car catches the rolling lawn seen earlier

and the neat hedgerows which wind around the property.

INT. SAMMY'S FOYER

by the open staircase. Pope is greeting Sammy. Introducing

Jill. Sammy's a tall, Jesus figure with an Indian shirt that

goes to the knees on his levi's.

Lester is staring in some wonder at the girl who is still

sitting on the staircase, nursing her baby. She looks up,

smiles at Lester, who manages a nod back, doesn't take his

eyes off the sight.

He strolls off toward the bar which is half visible through

the open foyer.

AT THE BAR

where Jill and George were earlier. Lester's ordered a drink.

The huge black in the Afro offers him a toke. Lester stares

at it dumbly.

He takes his drink and half toasts the black. He stops and

his eyes PAN the room. Lester is virtually the only person on

his feet. Everyone else is either on the floor or on deep

sofas, side by side, head to feet, barely talking, barely

moving. In fact the most mobile thing in the room in smoke

from the joints.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LESTER

Lester shakes his head as if to clear it. He takes a drink

and almost on cue the ACID ROCK MUSIC HITS and the strobe

lights go on.

Lester is momentarily alarmed, as if it had something to do

with his drink. He manages to stagger out of the strobe light

effect, hangs onto a railing in the next room.

INT. KITCHEN - JILL, RED DOG AND POPE

Jill stands over Red Dog who hasn't moved an inch, his

measuring cup of wine still half filled.

Pope looks up, sees Lester just outside the kitchen door.

He points toward the kitchen door where Lester looks like

he's about to enter.

Pope takes Jill and they move out the back door in the

direction of the rear grounds that Jackie and George had

taken earlier.

LESTER

peers into the kitchen. It's filled mostly with unkempt

beards. He decides against it, turns up a small staircase and

continues up it until he finds himself in a den.

Several people are seated on the floor, quietly smoking and

watching television. They seem a shade better dressed than

those in the kitchen.

Lester squints at the set which is a little blurry and

partially blocked, by someone sitting directly in front of

it. He kneels by a fortyish man in a bush jacket smoking a

pipe.

INT. DEN

Lester looks at the screen. Sally, handled by bare arms, is

being placed on a foam rubber cushion. She laughs.

Lester looks at Sally. She looks at Lester, nods. Turns back

to screen to watch herself. Lester turns from Sally to see a

television camera and the foam rubber mattress, now

abandoned. Lester shakes his head.

OUTSIDE ON GROUNDS WITH JILL AND JOHNNY POPE

They're walking through shrubbery and hedges that lead them

to a pair of empty deck chairs by the jacuzzi end of the

pool. One of the Twins is still in the jacuzzi.

Jill laughs. She turns and shakes her finger at Pope.

Jill stops cold. She turns to Pope.

There's a flash of light from the poolhouse window. Jill

turns toward it, then back to Pope, still making up her mind.

ANGLE SHIFTS SLIGHTLY to HOLD on light from window.

INT. POOLHOUSE - GEORGE AND JACKIE

George has pulled a pair of cokes out of the fridge. He's

looking at Jackie, closes the refrigerator lamely. It opens

again and he closes it again.

Interior poolhouse lit now by lights from outside.

George pops the tops of the cans, hands one to Jackie.

Neither one of them drink. They're staring steadily at each

other, their eyes shining from reflections from the tennis

court lights which someone has turned on.

George moves to her. Jackie is waiting for him. They kiss. It

is long and lingering and deliberate. George breaks away and

goes to the poolhouse door. There's no lock, only an eye

latch on the screen door. He latches it, tests it. It gives

slightly. Nevertheless he shuts the door and heads back to

Jackie who stands waiting.

George takes the coke out of her hand. She lets him.

LESTER

walks back in the foyer, holding a drink, swaying. The strobe

lights are going again in the living room.

Suddenly he sees a girl, at least half nude, her huge painted

lavender tits flashing at him through the strobe lights. The

vision disturbs him greatly.

He carefully steps down into the room in an effort to get

near her. She seems to move. He moves after her through the

lights down the length of the room, going as quickly as

prudence allows. Finally when they reach the end of the

living room she's disappeared. Then he looks out and sees her

poised at the top of the steps a few yards away by the hedged

path that leads down to the pool.

He lunges toward the vision, and bounces off a sliding glass

door.

JILL AND JOHNNY POPE

have made it through the entrance and Pope's Porsche is in

sight. Jill suddenly stops and looks at Pope.

Jill is clearly thinking about something else besides Lester.

BY THE POOL - LESTER

now with a sizable bump on his head he moves with the care

that only tightrope walkers and drunks can move: every step

is a possible disaster.

Lester looks down, sees one of the Twins. Her arm is

outstretched, her breasts dripping water VISIBLE through the

shrubbery spotlights. She's holding a joint.

Lester takes it.

Lester takes the joint and with fierce concentration makes it

over to the bench. He puts the joint down.

Stares at it. He looks up and there's the other Twin standing

beside him, nude, with her breasts visible through the towel

loosely flung over her shoulders.

Lester silently hands it to her. Stares at the pool and the

other Twin isn't there. He looks back and the one who had

taken the joint is gone. He looks back to the pool and the

other Twin surfaces with the force of Flipper, beside the Guy

in the pool.

Lester stares, then he sighs and pulls off his pants, almost

falling down as he does.

Carrying them, he walks over to the edge of the jacuzzi.

Holding his trousers, his tux shirt hanging half down over

his boxer shorts, Lester moves on over to the poolhouse. He

tries the door. The latch creaks. He pulls at it again and

the latch pops open. He starts to open the door, then hears

the unmistakable sounds of a couple in the throes of intense

love making. The girl is quite carried away.

Lester hesitates. He listens as her sighs, interspersed with

fetching little sobs begin to mount in intensity. He thinks

better of it. He takes his hand off the door knob and quietly

closes the screen door.

He starts to walk away, then notices the window on the side.

He can't resist. He moves to it. He can't see anything. He

moves closer. The dim, dark but classical outline of a man

mounted on a woman moving with ease but increasing intensity

can be SEEN. Lester watches. The SOUNDS are not as loud from

this angle, but gradually they can be HEARD as the woman's

cries grow louder. Lester is glued to the window.

The ANGLE has BROADENED to SHOW Lester holding his pants, not

taking his face away from the window. Jill and Johnny Pope

stand beside him.

Pope almost inadvertently tries to look in the window.

As he does, a light begins to flood the room. It is the

refrigerator door slowly opening, due in part to the rhythmic

impact of the lovers transmitted through the sofa to an end

table to another end table and to the refrigerator.

It opens until the light shines on the upper body and face of

George and Jackie.

LESTER

who has been smiling continues to smile until the enormity of

the image hits him. His face freezes. It is harsh and

determined. He turns slowly away from the window and walks

past Jill without looking at her.

She turns to the window and sees George and Jackie herself.

She turns and picks up a wrought iron end table and hurls it

through the window, shattering the glass everywhere.

WITH GEORGE AND JACKIE

George has leapt up.

Jackie doesn't move, only stares wide-eyed through the broken

window at the screaming Jill.

An ashtray is hurled into the room, smashing against the

wall, and Jill can be SEEN now storming off with Pope.

George, with one leg in his pants, rushes over to a far

window, pulls it open.

He's got the pants on backwards. He turns back to Jackie who

has already slipped into her dress, is stuffing pantyhose

into a purse.

He bends down, turns his pants around, and is hopping into

them.

He runs out of the door, beside the pool, past the jacuzzi

and into the maze of hedgerows. The Twins stand motionless

side by side in the water.

George, searching wildly through hedgerows, is calling Jill.

He can't find her. He finds himself next to a ten foot ivy

covered wall. He can't reach the top. He moves along the

wall... arrives at a wrought iron gate. It's locked. He peers

through the gate calling frantically:

Inches from his face on the other side of the gate, the bare

teeth of a huge German Sheperd GROWL at him viciously. George

chooses to go up the hedgerows toward the living room of the

house.

He trips and falls.

INT. LIVING ROOM

George running through the strobe-lit party to the foyer.

He's bare-footed, but his pants are on. His frilly shirt is

unbuttoned.

INT. FOYER - GEORGE

breathing heavily, spots Red Dog.

George charges out the door in time to see the red Porsche's

taillights blink bright at the end of the driveway before it

purrs off into the night.

George turns and runs back into the house and through the

strobe-lighting living room.

AT THE POOLHOUSE

George heaving deep breaths now runs on into the poolhouse.

The refrigerator door still hangs open. Window glass is

scattered on the floor, and George steps on it, cutting his

foot, hopping a little, pulling out a shard. Jackie's gone.

He opens the poolhouse bathroom door.

He runs back out the door of the poolhouse.

EXT. POOLHOUSE

INT. THE HOUSE

George runs through the living room again and the strobe

lights. Again he reaches the foyer. Red Dog is still there.

George is heaving deeply now.

GEORGE charges out the door, this time seeing Jackie's 230SL

pulling away, tires screeching.

He looks down defeated. His foot is bleeding on the pavement.

EXT. HIGH ROAD - NIGHT

George on his motorbike, COVERED by a few bars of Buffalo

Springfield's 'For What It's Worth,' has thrown on a peacoat

but kept on his velvet trousers. He's riding up what should

now be a familiar road to Jill's. The lights from the city

below flash in and out of view.

JILL'S GARAGE - GEORGE

pulls in. Her slot in the three car garage is empty, only the

oil slick stares at him.

There's the SOUND of a CAR coming down the road. He looks up

expectantly. As it comes by the morning newspaper is tossed

at his feet.

George turns and fishes in the hanging planter by the door.

He pulls out a key, blows the dirt off it and goes inside.

INT. JILL'S - GEORGE - NIGHT

He looks in bedroom, then moves back to the phone and dials.

It rings three times.

He hangs up. Stares around the room. Jill's apartment is, as

usual, good-little-girl tidy. (A contrast with Jackie's

particularly kitchen.)

George walks over to the window and look's at the city. He

walks out onto the deck and sits in a deck chair.

GRAY SCREEN

There is the SOUND of a CAR IDLING.

George opens his eyes. Above him is the carport and Jill's

yellow Mustang has just pulled in. George rises. He walks

into the living room as Jill comes down the steps to the

kitchen, carrying the paper. The kitchen clock reads 4:44.

George glances at it. Then back at Jill. She looks at him,

frightened but not moving. Her hair is stringy and she's got

no makeup on. There's a bruise on the inside of her upper arm

and a small one on her neck, and one on her left thigh all of

which George will note in the course of the scene.

George looks her up and down.

At this point he notes the arm bruise. Jill stares back at

him unflinching. George smiles.

Jill doesn't answer.

She walks into the bedroom, kicks off her shoes, starts to

take off her dress, then changes her mind and puts on a robe

over it.

Jill goes into the living room. George grabs her arm again.

George doesn't.

He lets go of her. The PHONE RINGS. Jill answers it. Her tone

alters appreciably.

She hangs up.

Jill smiles thinly.

George doesn't move. Jill goes over and fishes into a tote

bag by the wall. She returns with Felicia's missing earring.

George nods. Jill's anger is growing and her hurt is

beginning to surface now. Tears start welling in her eyes.

George stares at Jill. Then:

Jill is crying a little now and looks very vulnerable. George

moves to her and tries to put his arms around her.

It's been rising in him the last few exchanges. Now all

George's restraints seem to leave him. He stops trying to

touch her and stands his ground, exploding:

George leans on a glass topped coffee table for support, not

even bothering to look at Jill. Jill has been pulled together

a little more by the speech.

His tone has indicated disbelief and disgust.

She can't finish It.

Jill doesn't answer.

She starts to cry again. George smiles.

George turns and walks up the stairs and out the door.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE

George shuffles up the steps to his front porch and into the

living room.

INT. GEORGE'S LIVING ROOM

George finds himself facing Lester and two other MEN who look

like hoods. Lester sits in the chair George sat in the other

night. Before him is a bottle of J & B, a paper bucket filled

with melting ice. The other men rise when George walks into

the room.

Lester, glass in hand, stares silently at George.

The two Men walk toward George and pass him on either side,

coming very close. Both of them are much bigger than George.

They stare through George as they pass him.

George continues to stand there. Lester, drinking, continues

to stare. Lester glances idly around the living room. Then

back to George.

One of the men opens the door and peers through the screen.

George site down. Lester has risen to his feet, a little

unsteadily.

George nods.

Lester waits, standing over George.

Lester slaps him.

A pause. Lester freshens his drink.

Lester has listened to this with some alteration of his

intensity.

A pause. Lester goes to pour himself another drink.

Lester gets up and goes to the kitchen.

He turns on the faucet in the kitchen. He brings the glass.

George takes the drink. Lester just shakes his head.

Lester sits and stares into his drink.

George looks at him.

Lester sits and thinks about that.

Lester goes to the door. He turns as if he'd just thought of

something.

George nods. Lester shakes his head.

He opens the door and goes out. The two hoods are standing

there. They look to Lester.

George looks shocked. Lester laughs, gives George a playful

punch.

With that, Lester's off.

EXT. SHOP - GEORGE - DAY

pulls up. He goes into the shop.

INT. SHOP - NORMAN AND DEVRA

Norman is by the front desk.

George nods.

Norman from upstairs shouts down.

George starts to say something but he's tired. He goes to his

corner, slams his jacket down.

George fiddles around with the shampoos and rinses, knocks

over one where the top was not on, and the shampoo spills all

over the table top and starts to drip on the floor.

He starts to look for a rag and sees that Mary, wearing a

cloth coat is coming into the shop.

Mary moves very slowly, George waits, hands on hips. It

should almost be a little faggy, his petulance as if,

inevitably some of the shop must rub off on him.

Mary doesn't answer.

Mary's swaying.

She points to his picture on the wall.

It's suddenly very quiet. The SOUND of the SHAMPOO DRIPPING

on the floor can be HEARD.

GEORGE AND MARY

Mary starts to cry and like a little child buries her head on

George's shoulder.

EXT. STREET - GEORGE - DAY

on his cycle drives up Bowmont into Jackie's driveway. Her

car is there.

George jumps off his bike, fairly races to the door. It's

open and he barges in. He's met by Jackie's Yorkies who bark

furiously, jumping up and down, nipping his pantlegs for

attention.

Jackie comes walking out. She's carrying a large cooking

spoon and wears an apron over a travelling outfit, a

pantsuit. She's wearing more makeup than usual. She stops

when she sees George.

George is not prepared for this.

George stares at her then walks past her into the living

room. Bags are packed, a coat thrown over them. The wire

kennel carrying cages for the Yorkies are beside the bags.

George looks into the kitchen where Jackie's been cooking

some pasta.

The level of her nervousness has just risen about fifty

decibels. There's the SOUND of a CAR outside.

George looks out the window.

With that she tosses the spoon onto an end table and rushes

out the door. George starts after her. The DRY CLEANER comes

to the door, stopping George.

George has to fumble with Jackie's cleaning and keep the dogs

contained. He does, tosses the cleaning down and races

outside to his bike.

ON THE STREET

he sees Jackie's car rounding the corner, going up the hill,

winding around the curves. George guns his bike and takes off

after her.

AROUND WINDING CURVES - GEORGE

almost sideswipes a car parked on a hairpin turn. Jackie's on

the curve above him.

AT THE NEXT CURVE - GEORGE

catches up with her, pulls even to her.

He threatens to run her into the curb. She stops the car

sharply and jumps out.

AT THE TOP OF THE DRIVE

They've reached a cul de sac where there's a parched 'view

lot' not built on.

Yellow October weeds cover it and there's a huge television

antenna in its center which sways slightly in an afternoon

wind.

Jackie has run onto the lot, then slows to a walk. She grabs

one of the rusty stays of the swaying antennas, stares down

below her.

Her house can be seen from this angle, the Malone's truck

just pulling away.

George comes up to her.

She stares at him in disbelief. She actually clutches her

stomach.

Jackie doesn't answer. She slowly sinks to the ground. George

sinks beside her. Her eyes are wet.

George now is very near tears himself. What he says now he

has to force out of himself, as if it's the biggest secret he

holds.

George lets his head fall on her shoulder. She's kneeling,

supported by the television aerial, and George cries quietly

on her shoulder. She has her arm around him.

As she's holding George, and looking down the hill, Lester's

silver Rolls pulls up. Lester gets out of the car, goes to

the front door.

She gets up and hurries over to her car, starts it and goes

back down the hill. George sits under the television aerial

and watches her car go down the hill, periodically flashing

INTO VIEW.

Finally she pulls up while Lester is pacing back and forth.

She hurries to him. He taxes her by the shoulders. They talk

for a moment. The discussion looks like Jackie is giving

Lester directions. She glances uneasily up toward George.

George is watching them.

He sees that Lester and Jackie have their backs to him, his

arm around her shoulder, hers around his waist. They're going

through the front door.

THE END

