FADE IN:

INT. GRUBBY HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY (DIMLY LIT)

A woman's face BACKS INTO SHOT, her head resting against

grimy wallpaper. She is tense, sweaty, wide-eyed with

concentration. This is CLARICE STARLING, mid-20's, trim,

very pretty. She wears Kevlar body armor over a navy

windbreaker, khaki pants. Her thick hair is piled under a

navy baseball cap. A revolver, clutched in her right hand,

hovers by her ear. She raises a speedloader, in her left

hand, locks it into her cylinder, twists and reloads.

CLOSE ON

A guest room door, with a small, wired pack attached to its

knob. Suddenly, wish a sharp CRACK!, the knob explodes, and

the door bursts open.

WITH CLARICE - MOVING SHOT

as she runs around a corner, through a cloud of smoke. She

shoulders aside the shattered door and rushes inside, gun at

the ready in both hands...

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

CLARICE'S POV - MOVING - as she first sees, sitting on the

edge of a bed - a FEMALE HOSTAGE. Black, late 20's, gagged,

hands behind her back. Then, SWIVELLING... she sees a startled

MALE SUSPECT, white, mid-20's, standing by a window with a

rifle in his hands. He is turning towards her...

Clarice drops into a combat crouch, gun extended, and shouts.

CLARICE'S POV - SLOW MOTION

all natural SOUND suspended - as the Suspect faces her with

a strange, pleading expression. The rifle is rising in his

hands, but oddly enough, it is held across his chest, not

pointing. Then another puzzling detail registers...

THE SUSPECT'S HANDS

are taped to his gun, away from the trigger; he couldn't use

it even if he tried. Suddenly we hear a metallic CLICK, which

registers with unnatural amplification, as - Clarice reacts,

drops to the floor, rolling sideways, and -

THE "HOSTAGE"

pulls a revolver out from behind her back, still in SLOW

MOTION, raising it in her untied hands. She fires repeatedly,

flames leaping from the muzzle; the SOUND is an echoing roar

in these close quarters, but -

Clarice has come up on one knee, beside an armchair, and is

already firing back herself, two quick SHOTS, which send -

THE "HOSTAGE"

pitching over the bed, backwards, to shudder and lie still

in a haze of gunsmoke. Clarice rushes to her, clamping one

knee down on her gun hand, still keeping her covered in case

of movement. HOLD for a few beats... then we hear the shrill

blast of a WHISTLE from somewhere, off screen, as normal

ACTION and SOUND are restored.

Clarice relaxes, lowering her gun. The lights brighten.

PULLING BACK

we see that we're in some sort of auditorium, with the "hotel

room" and its "corridor" built as a training set. JOHN BRIGHAM

walks onto this set, thumbing a stopwatch. Mid-40's, ex-

Marine. His T-shirt's lettering says "Firearms Instructor /

FBI Academy."

A class of about forty young FBI trainees, of both sexes,

begins to rise from their seats, mingling and chatting.

Clarice nods amiably to the "Suspect", then gives her

"Hostage" a hand up. It's ARDELIA MAPP, her roommate. Her

broad, clever face breaks into a big smile, as they both

remove ear plugs. Clarice's voice has just a soft trace of

southern accent.

As Brigham joins them, Clarice can't resist a star pupil's

little smile of pride. He frowns good-naturedly.

He takes out a steel-coiled grip flexer, drops it onto her

palm.

He nods a direction, then moves off. Clarice, with her smile

finally fading, looks out into the auditorium.

SPECIAL AGENT JACK CRAWFORD

sits on the top step of the aisle, looking down at her. He

is 53, strongly built. He rises impassively, exits through

the back door. He carries a think manila envelope under one

arm.

Ardelia who is helping Clarice unbuckle her bullet-proof

vest, follows her worried gaze.

EXT. FBI ACADEMY GROUNDS, QUANTICO, VIRGINIA - DAY

Crawford is watching a group of trainees on the firing range,

as Clarice joins him. He looks tired, haunted. Between master

and student, we sense a subtle, muted tug of sexuality.

They begin to cross the academy grounds. A group of trainees

jogs by, in matching sweats, following a p.e. coach.

Clarice stops walking, goes very still. A beat.

Crawford doesn't respond, except to study her face.

He walks on again, at a faster clip. She hurried to keep up.

They're reached his car. His driver stamps on a cigarette,

climbs in behind the wheel. BURROUGHS, his assistant, says

something into a walkie-talkie, then opens the back door.

But Crawford pulls her aside, a hand on her shoulder. His

intensity is scary.

INT. CHILTON'S OFFICE - BALTIMORE STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE

CRIMINALLY INSANE - DAY

CLOSE ON an ID card held in a male hand. Clarice's photo,

official-looking graphics. It calls her a "Federal

Investigator."

DR. FREDERICK CHILTON looks up from her card. A smarmy little

peacock, behind a vast desk; he's conceived an instant,

hopeless letch for Clarice. He smiles, stroking her card

with his beloved gold pen.

NEW ANGLE - REVEALS CLARICE

now wearing a more feminine skirt suit. Hair neatly coiled,

elegant shoulder bag, briefcase. He has rudely left her

standing.

Clarice tries, unsuccessfully, to hide her distaste for him.

INT. ASYLUM CORRIDOR - UPPER FLOOR - DAY

Clarice flinches as a heavy steel gate CLANGS shut behind

her, the bolt shooting home. Chilton walks ahead of her.

INT. DIFFERENT CORRIDOR - LOWER FLOOR - DAY

A darker, even grimmer area. Heavy grids over the lights.

Distant SLAMMINGS and faint, hoarse SHOUTS. They walk briskly.

He hands Clarice a small, dog-eared photo. Looking at it,

she is stopped in her tracks. This pleases Chilton.

He turns, pushes a button. A steel door BUZZES slowly open,

and BARNEY - a big, impassive orderly - awaits them in an

anteroom. On its walls: restraints, mouthpieces, Mace,

tranquilizer guns.

She holds out the photo. A beat. He grabs it, jaw twitching.

He turns on his heel, goes. Barney smiles reassuringly.

Sensing her tension, he indicates a nearby security monitor.

Clarice nods gratefully. She looks down the long corridor,

takes a deep breath, walks into it. He watches her go.

INT. DR. LECTER'S CORRIDOR - DAY

MOVING SHOT - with Clarice, as her footsteps ECHO. High to

her right, surveillance cameras. On her left, cells. Some

are padded, with narrow observation slits, others are normal,

barred... Shadowy occupants pacing, MUTTERING... Suddenly a

dark figure in the next-to-last cell hurtles towards her,

his face mashing grotesquely against his bars as he hisses.

Clarice flinches momentarily, but then walks on.

DR. LECTER'S CELL

is coming slowly INTO VIEW... Behind its barred front wall

is a second barrier of stout nylon net... Sparse, bolted-

down furniture, many softcover books and papers. On the walls,

extraordinarily detailed, skillful drawings, mostly European

cityscapes, in charcoal or crayon.

Clarice stops, at a polite distance from his bars, clears

her throat.

Dr. Hannibal Lecter is lounging on his bunk, in white pajamas,

reading an Italian Vogue. He turns, considers her... A face

so long out of the sun, it seems almost leached - except for

the glittering eyes, and the wet red mouth. He rises smoothly,

crossing to stand before her; the gracious host. His voice

is cultured, soft.

CUTTING BETWEEN THEM

as Clarice comes a measured distance closer.

Clarice is surprised, but fishes her ID card from her bag,

holds it up for his inspection. He smiles, soothingly.

She complies each time, trying to hide her fear. Dr. Lecter's

nostrils lift, as he gently, like an animal, tests the air.

Then he smiles, glancing at her card.

She sits in the folding metal desk-chair. He waits politely

till she's settled, then sits down himself, faces her happily.

A pause, then Clarice takes the questionnaire from her case.

A tense beat, then a smile from him, at this small boldness.

She rolls him the questionnaire, in his sliding food tray.

He rises, glances at it, turning a page or two disdainfully.

Suddenly he whips the tray back at her, with a metallic CLANG

that makes her start. His voice remains a pleasant purr.

His every word has struck her like a tiny, precise dart. But

she squares her jaw and won't give ground.

He steps backwards, then returns to his cot, becoming as

still and remote as a statue. Frustrated, Clarice hesitates,

then finally shoulders her bag and goes, leaving the

questionnaire in his tray. But after just a few steps, as

she passes -

MIGG'S CELL

She sees that creature at his bars again, hissing at her.

The dark figure suddenly flings his palm towards her, and -

CLARICE

is spattered on the face and neck - not with blood, but with

pale droplets of semen. She gives a little cry, touching her

fingers to the wetness. Stunned, near tears, she forces

herself to straighten up and walk on, fumbling for a tissue.

From behind her, Dr. Lecter calls out, very agitated.

Clarice slows, stops. She shudders, but makes the very

difficult choice to turn, walk back, stand again in front of -

DR. LECTER

Who's shivering with rage. For an instant his face opens,

and we catch a glimpse into hell itself. Then he's composed

again.

EXT. THE HOSPITAL - PARKING LOT - DAY

The grim gothic pile of the asylum looms overhead as Clarice

rushes out the front doors. She is badly shaken, almost

stumbling, as she rubs at her face. She looks around for,

and finally, with some relief, spots -

HER CAR

an old Pinto, parked nearby. This image begins to BLUR...

CLOSE ON

her face, fighting tears, as the CAMERA begins to WHIRL AROUND

her, almost dizzily. She is seeing, in her mind's eye -

IN FLASHBACK

a screen door banging open, on a wooden porch, and a 10-year

old girl - the young Clarice - rushing outside, down the

front steps, and running joyfully across her front yard to -

MOVING ANGLE - THE GIRL'S POV

a car - late 60's vintage - parked in the dirt road. A MAN,

Clarice's father, is just climbing out. He's tall, handsome,

and has a marshal's badge pinned on his dark suit. He grins,

seeing her, and spreads his arms wide as...

THE YOUNG CLARICE

rushes into them, and he sweeps her up in a hug, spinning

her around, the CAMERA SPINNING with them, and capturing

both their laughing faces, before we abruptly return to -

THE ADULT CLARICE

alone in the parking lot, sagging against her car. Her face

is buried in her arms, she shoulders shaking. SOUND UPCUT -

a steady, rapid series of GUNSHOTS, as we

INT. FBI ACADEMY FIRING RANGE - DAY

Clarice, in a combat stance, and wearing a sound-muffling

headset, is squeezing off ROUND after ROUND at

A MOVING TARGET

The silhouette of a man, approaching along a track. Her shots,

tightly grouped, are all finding the center chest. The target

stops, quite close to her, still swaying.

Clarice stares at it, deftly working her speedloader. Then

she puts a final, emphatic shot right through THE FIGURE'S

FOREHEAD.

INT. FBI ACADEMY LIBRARY - NIGHT

CLOSE ON a microfilm monitor - a grainy newsphoto of Dr.

Lecter, scrawling past, with an accompanying story ("New

Horrors in Cannibal Trial"), dated 1980.

Clarice is punching keys on the terminal. Other trainees

study at nearby tables.

She pauses, jotting a note on her pad, as Ardelia comes by,

carrying an armful of books.

MOVING ANGLE

as Clarice rises, grabbing her notebook, and follows Ardelia

past high metal bookstacks.

Ardelia stares at her, figures it's a put-on, laughs.

Clarice grins, as Ardelia indicates a phone receiver resting

on the check-out desk, then moves on. Clarice picks it up.

INT. CRAWFORD'S HOUSE - STUDY - NIGHT

Crawford, in a cardigan, sits in a wing chair in the book-

lined study of his suburban home. He turns the pages of

Clarice's memo as they talk. His tone is sharp.

INTERCUTTING

She pauses, expecting some soft of approval for her

cleverness.

ANGLE ON CLARICE

as we hear the loud CLICK of Crawford hanging up. She stares

at her receiver, stung by his abruptness.

She slams her receiver into its cradle.

ANGLE ON CRAWFORD

as he flips aside her memo, then rises, wearily. He leaves

his study, flicking off the lamp, and pads away in his

slippers.

INT. CRAWFORD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A private nurse, in white, stands marking a clipboard chart,

as Crawford enters his tidy bedroom.

The nurse nods, hands him the chart, and goes. He glances at

it, then sets it aside. He crosses to -

BELLA CRAWFORD

who lies in an elevated hospital bed. Nearby are an oxygen

tank and mask, floral arrangements. Her breathing is shallow,

very labored. Crawford looks down at his comatose wife for a

long moment, tenderly brushes a strand of her hair back into

place, then bends over to kiss her forehead. SOUND UPCUT -

THUNDER and RAIN...

EXT. "SPLIT CITY MINI-STORAGE" - DUSK (RAINING)

An orange neon sign, streaked with rain, identifies out

location. It looms over a hurricane fence, topped with barbed

wire. Inside, row on row of garage-sized, cinderblock sheds.

EXT. STORAGE UNIT NUMBER 31 - DUSK

Clarice, kneeling before a closed, roll-up metal door, takes

a FLASH photo of its sealed padlock. EVERETT YOW, a fat,

60ish Chinaman, holds an umbrella over them both. He looks

unhappy.

She opens the padlock, using a fat ring of tagged keys, then

sets aside both keys and lock.

Slinging her camera over a shoulder, she tugs at the handle,

but the door won't budge. Another tug, harder - no good. Mr.

Yow stoops to help, puffing hard, but it's firmly stuck. He

sighs.

Clarice crosses to her Pinto, which faces the shed, reaches

in to turn on her headlights. Mr. Yow blinks in the sudden

brightness. Then she opens her truck, rummaging inside, and

returns with a bumper jack, a flashlight, and a rubber floor

mat.

She gives him her flashlight and camera, drops the mat on

the ground, then sets the bumper jack in place, under the

center of the door. She pumps on the jack handle as the door

SQUEALS slowly up, but it won't go higher than about 18

inches, despite all her exertions. She spreads out the rubber

mat on the cement, takes the flashlight from Mr. Yow, then

lies on the mat.

INT. THE STORAGE SHED - DUSK (VERY DARK)

Clarice, backlit, peers under the door. She reaches in, makes

a sweep with her flashlight. We catch shadowy outlines -

boxes, then the flattened tires of a car...

SOUND of rain on the tin roof, and other noises, too - small

RUSTLINGS. Mr. Yow's chubby face appears down beside

Clarice's.

Clarice turns onto her back, starts squirming under the door.

CUT BACK TO:

EXT. STORAGE UNIT NUMBER 31 - DUSK

Clarice pulls her head back out again, reaching to take her

camera from him. She hands him a card, trying to appear

nonchalant.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. STORAGE SHED - DUSK (VERY DARK)

Clarice squirms, on her back, through the narrow opening. As

she squeezes all the way in, she snags one thigh on the metal

edge of the door. She curses softly, shining her flashlight

on her ripped khakis - there's a small streak of blood.

She shines her light around. In its narrow beam, we see -

CLARICE'S POV - UPWARD, SHIFTING

spiderwebs, everywhere... high stacks of cardboard boxes...

a few dusty pieces of furniture... the big car, oddly long

and tall, covered with a tarp... Suddenly there's a scurrying

of loud MUSICAL NOTES. Clarice turns, scared, her beam

capturing... an old upright piano.

Clarice crawls a bit further. There's hardly room to stand,

but she finally manages to wriggle upright, clawing away

cobwebs, next to the car. Holding her light under one arm,

she takes several FLASH photos of the shed's interior, ending

with the car. Then, slinging her camera over the shoulder,

she folds back the tarp, resting it on the roof. The resulting

clouds of dust make her cough.

THE CAR

is an antique beauty, a 1931 Packard. It's very dusty, despite

the tarp. Curtains close off the back passenger compartment,

but there's a narrow gap in them. More mousy RUSTLINGS.

CLARICE

peers in through the gap, aiming her flashlight.

HER POV - SHIFTING

as the thin flashlight beam picks out: the broad back seat...

as open album of lacy, old-fashioned Valentines... a crumpled

lap rug, on the floor... and then a pair of women's shiny,

high-heeled pumps... Above these, the hem of a fancy satin

evening gown - and a pair of pale, stockinged legs.

Clarice recoils, alarmed, then steadies herself.

She leans down with her camera, takes a FLASH through the

gap, then tries the door handle. Locked. So is the front

door. She looks around, aiming her light, and locates a tangle

of coat-hangers, sticking out of a carton of bric-a-brac.

She pulls out one of these, straightens it quickly, bends

the tip into a hook.

CLOSE ANGLE

as she jams this tool inside the join at the top of the back

passenger window, then fishes around till she can snag the

inside door latch, pulling up. A satisfying CLICK.

Clarice opens the door - it hits stacked boxes, and won't

open far - then very cautiously leans inside, aiming her

flashlight.

HER POV - MOVING LIGHT BEAM

revealing more of the evening gown... a pair of hands, in

white, elbow-length gloves - one rests on the lap, the other

atop a large, beaded, drawstring evening bag... thick strands

of costume pearls over the breasts... and finally the white

neck stub of a female mannequin. No face or head.

CLARICE

sighs with relief. She takes a couple more FLASHES, then

very carefully lifts out the Valentine album, holding it by

the corners, and setting it atop the car. Then she eases

herself inside, onto the back seat, as the springs SQUEAK

loudly.

ONE GLOVED HAND slides off the lap, brushing Clarice's thigh.

Clarice starts a bit, then pokes at the gloved arm, hard.

She peels back a bit of glove, revealing the white, synthetic

elbow. She smiles, shaking her head at her own jumpiness, as

she reaches over the mannequin's lap to loosen the evening

bag's drawstring.

A SEVERED HUMAN HEAD stares back at her, as the beaded

material slides away.

Clarice lurches back, gasping loudly, and several long, heart-

pounding moments pass before she can make herself look more

closely.

The head bobs gently in a pool of alcohol, in a laboratory

specimen jar. It is a man's head, but grotesquely transformed,

by the addition of heavy makeup, earrings, and a sodden wig,

into a woman's face. Over the years the makeup has smeared

badly, and the pupils have gone almost milky white.

CLARICE

staring at this terrible thing, is pleased to find herself

quickly regaining control. She murmurs to herself.

EXT. QUINN'S HOSPITAL - PARKING LOT - NIGHT (RAINING)

A loud clap of THUNDER, as a flash of LIGHTNING illuminates

the eerie towers and barred windows of the asylum.

MOVING ANGLE on Clarice as she climbs from her car, runs

through heavy rain towards the main entrance, where a guard

admits her.

INT. DR. LECTER'S CELL AND CORRIDOR - NIGHT (DIM LIGHT)

On a noiseless TV screen, an evangelist rants, waving his

arms. Behind him, a swaying choir in gaudy robes.

PAN TO Clarice, with her wet hair plastered flat, sitting on

the corridor floor to one side of this TV, which has been

stationed so that Dr. Lecter cannot avoid seeing it.

HER POV

he's lost in shadows; we can't see him. He doesn't respond.

CUTTING BETWEEN THEM

Clarice and the darkened call - as she tries again.

The food carrier suddenly SWISHES out of the cell, making

her jump up. In its tray is a clean, folded white towel. She

hesitates, then crosses, takes this.

She sits again, rubbing her wet hair. When he finally speaks,

he's on the floor, too - a deeper, hunching darkness in the

shadows, occasionally striped by the flickering TV light.

Dr. Lecter slowly turns up the rheostat in his cell. As his

lights rise, we see that the cell's been stripped bare. Gone

are his books, drawings, mattress - even his toilet seat.

She stands, too, startled. They face each other.

But Dr. Lecter only smiles, enigmatically.

As Clarice stares at him, unsure how to respond -

INT. CATHERINE MARTIN'S APARTMENT - MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE -

NIGHT

CATHERINE MARTIN takes a long toke from a bong pipe. She is

21, a tall, big-boned, rather fleshy girl with long brown

fair. Her head is on the lap of her boyfriend, CODY; they're

sprawled on a couch in the den of her well-furnished

apartment. The TV in on, with low SOUND.

He starts to rise, but she pushes him back.

She rises, goes out the front door.

EXT. PARKING LOT - THE APARTMENT COMPLEX - NIGHT

Catherine straightens, with her bag of groceries, shutting

her car's back door. She sees, a short distance away -

A MAN

standing at the open rear door of a brown panel truck. His

right forearm is in a cast and sling; he is struggling,

unsuccessfully, to hoist an armchair into the truck. Parked

nearby, other cars, RVs, a boat on a trailer. A thin, breast-

high fog fills the lot; arc lights make yellow pools.

Catherine hesitates, then crosses towards the man.

His voice is odd, strained, very soft. A fog lamp, set on

end on the ground, distorts his features from below. We can't

get a good glimpse of his face, but his body is plump, above

average height; he's in his mid 30's. She sets down the bag,

then together they easily lift the chair into the truck.

INT. THE PANEL TRUCK - NIGHT

He climbs inside the truck, ducking under a small hand winch,

and grabs the chair. She hesitates again, but climbs in after

him; together they slide the chair forward, behind the seats.

Suddenly, in the shadowy dark, he clubs her over the back of

her head with his cast. She moans, slumps unconscious, sliding

off the armchair to lie on her stomach. He pulls off his

cast and sling, tosses them aside, then hops out of the truck,

grabs his lamp, climbs back inside, and pulls the door shut.

He bends over her face with the lamp.

We hear her shallow BREATHING.

He peels back the collar of her blouse, reading the size

tag.

He carefully slits her blouse up the back, with a pair of

bandage scissors, peeling apart the two halves. There's no

bra strap. He strokes her bare skin delicately, very happily.

EXT. THE PARKING LOT - NIGHT

LOW ANGLE - CLOSE - on Catherine's grocery bag, as her blouse

is tossed out beside it. SOUND of the truck's motor starting.

The truck backs up, one rear wheel knocking over the bag,

partly squashing it. Then is drives away, taillights

shrinking, as a lone orange rolls slowly away from the bag...

INT. FBI ACADEMY CLASSROOM - QUANTICO - DAY

CLOSE ON a large video screen, where a BLURRY image gradually

sharpens, resolving into two separate pieces of fabric.

Clarice sits at a long table, with other trainees. Ardelia

is beside her. Other tables and students in the background.

Each trainee has his own microscope. Clarice is tired, but

straightens, hearing -

ON THE SCREEN

successively CLOSER VIEWS of the cut fabric edges, until we

are seeing individual threads, big as tree limbs. The cuts

match.

ANGLE ON THE DOOR

as John Brigham, the gunnery instructor, sticks his head in.

INT. HALLWAY - CLASSROOM BUILDING - DAY

Clarice and Brigham walk briskly down the hall, passing other

trainees. He carries a small canvas bag.

INT. BRIGHAM'S JEEP CHEROKEE - DAY (DRIVING)

Brigham steers as they pass hangars, parked planes, an

airstrip. Clarice holds a big fingerprint kit and a weekend

bag.

Clarice absorbs this in silence as they stop near an ancient,

rather dilapidated Beechcraft. Its door is open, the twin

props and beacons already turning. Brigham turns to her,

holding out his small canvas bag.

Clarice opens the bag, stares at the big blue gun nestled in

its shoulder holster. She looks up at him, touched.

She nods, climbs out. Then she looks back in at him. They're

both moved by this rite of passage, but a little embarrassed.

INT. BEECHCRAFT PLANE - DAY (FLYING)

CLARICE'S POV - Out the plane's window, at the landscape far

below. Wisps of cloud, a quilt of farms.

Clarice turns from the window, looks at a think folder in

her lap. The cover reads "Case File: / BUFFALO BILL." Clarice

is moody, distracted. She hesitates, then opens the file,

begins to scan.

INSERTS - HER POV

Police forms, some handwritten... Typed lab reports; we catch

words, phrases: "Autopsy Protocols", "Histamine Analysis"...

Grainy enlargements of bullet slugs, showing matched

grooves... And then a stack of victim photos. The first one,

taken from a good distance away, shows a nude female body,

face down on a pebbly riverbank, surrounded by bits of litter.

Clarice hesitates again, then flips this photo to look at

the next. It makes her flinch, just slightly. Quickly she

turns through several more photographs, trying hard to

concentrate.

NEW ANGLE

shows Crawford standing over her, swaying with the plane's

motion. Behind him, the open cockpit door, the pilot's back.

Crawford sits, removing sunglasses. He rubs his eyes.

The pilot adjusts a valve. Crawford turns to her again.

A COLOR PHOTO - IN CLARICE'S HANDS

shows a pretty, plump-cheeked brunette, in her high school

graduation cap and gown. She smiles at us with touching

optimism.

NEW ANGLE

as Clarice stares at the girl's face, moved. Crawford pulls

a map from the file, spreads it out. It shows the central

and eastern U.S., with widely-spaced, hand-drawn markings.

INT. RENTAL CAR - DAY (DRIVING)

Crawford steers, following a highway patrol car along a

winding mountain road. Clarice has the file open on her lap.

He glances at her, inscrutable behind his sunglasses.

He studies her a few moments, measuring her anger.

A shadow of regret passes over his face, but he answers

sternly.

She starts to answer, then is silent. He is right.

By now the two cars are entering a tidy little town - tree-

lined streets, wooden houses, one-story shops, mountains in

the background. They slow, turn.

Clarice nods, silently; it's as close to an apology as she's

likely to get. She stares out the windshield.

JUST AHEAD OF THEM

the highway patrol cruiser noses into a curb, next to other

police cars, facing a big white frame house. Its sign reads

"Potter Funeral Home." Two troopers climb from the car.

Crawford parks too, then kills the engine. He turns to her,

removing his sunglasses, gestures to the case file.

One of the troopers, impassive in his sunglasses and hat,

peers in through Crawford's window. Crawford nods to him,

then turns back to Clarice.

EXT. SIDEWALK OF THE FUNERAL HOME - POTTER, WEST VA. - DAY

SOUND of organ music, as Clarice, carrying her fingerprint

kit, mounts some steps to the sidewalk. She stops, seeing -

COUNTRY PEOPLE

in their somber best, filing into the mortuary for a service.

The music - "Shall We Gather At The River?" - is issuing

from the open double doors. Several of the mourners glance

over at her curiously.

ANGLE ON CLARICE

staring back at the mourners, hearing the music, as a sense

memory is triggered in her...

IN FLASHBACK - LOW ANGLE, MOVING

as we approach, down the aisle of a country chapel, an open

wooden coffin. Sad country faces turn, looking at us from

the flanking pews. The b.g. organ hymn is "Shall We

Gather...?"

THE SAD, 10 YEAR-OLD CLARICE

in her best dress, is reluctantly approaching the casket.

Her hands are held by the plump hands of unseen matrons.

CHILD'S POV

on the looming coffin... closer and closer... until finally

she can see, lying inside it... her dead father, arms folded,

his marshal's badge still pinned to his lapel.

NEW ANGLE (PRESENT DAY)

as the grownup Clarice turns towards the impatient Crawford.

Like her, he carries a large case.

INT. FUNERAL HOME - BACK CORRIDOR - DAY

A young deputy, several state troopers, and a SHERIFF are

all waiting, as Crawford and Clarice enter. The dim, cluttered

corridor doubles as storage space - there's a treadle sewing

machine, a soft-drink machine, a tricycle. The MUSIC is

closer. Crawford shakes hands with the sheriff.

He casts a sidelong, unhappy glance at Clarice.

He indicates Clarice with his eyes. The sheriff hesitates,

nods, then lets Crawford guide him into a small office,

closing the door behind them. Muffled WORDS from there.

CLARICE

burning at this slight, is left alone with the troopers, who

peek at her with shy curiosity. She pulls her blazer a bit

tighter, self-conscious about her bulging shoulder holster.

ANGLE ON THE OFFICE DOOR

as, after a few more moments, the sheriff and Crawford emerge.

The sheriff, still not very happy, addresses his deputy.

INT. EMBALMING ROOM - DAY

Crawford, in one corner of the room, has set up a Litton

Policefax fingerprint transmitter. SOUND of many men's low

voices, in background. He is on the phone, and has to speak

loudly.

He looks around, frustrated by the noisy circus atmosphere.

CLARICE

is pulling on a pair of surgical gloves. She raises her voice,

turning up her natural accent by several notches.

WIDER ANGLE

as we see that the small room is very crowded with deputies

and troopers. They gradually fall silent, looking at her.

The men look at one another, a little bashfully, then begin

to to file out, whispering among themselves. As they go, a

bright green body bag is REVEALED, tightly zipped, lying on

a porcelain embalming table. It is almost the only modern

object in this Victorian room, with its glass-paned cabinets

and faded wallpaper, decorated with cabbage roses.

FAVORING CRAWFORD

as he looks at Clarice with a new degree of respect. Men

brush by him, till finally only two are left: DR. AKIN, a

family g.p., and LAMAR, a lean, whiskey-reddened mortician.

SOUND of the door closing. Lamar dabs around his nostrils

with Vicks VapoRub.

CLARICE

at a side counter, has turned back to her open fingerprint

kit. She is lifting out a camera when she hears the ZIPPER

of the body bag being slowly opened, behind her...

One gloved hand flies to her mouth as she reacts,

involuntarily, to the sudden smell. She blinks at her

reflection in the cabinet glass, then steels herself to turn,

look at the corpse.

She steadies herself by raising her camera, takes a FLASH

photo.

LOW ANGLE - LOOKING UP, FROM BENEATH TABLE

as Dr. Akin gently lifts aside one of the dead girl's arms.

A piece of fishing line, with multiple hooks, is still snagged

around it, dangling. Crawford leans in for a closer look.

He leaves, and Clarice leans INTO SHOT, taking another photo.

CLOSE ANGLE

on the calf of one of the girl's legs, as Clarice trails the

inside of her bare wrist along the skin.

UPWARD ANGLE AGAIN

as Lamar joins them for a closer look.

She takes another FLASH, then quickly reloads film.

Crawford and Lamar both look at her curiously.

SIDE ANGLE - CLOSE ON THE DEAD GIRL'S FACE

staring blue eyes, short reddish hair. Clarice sets the

Polaroid, with its special attachments, against the face,

while Lamar gently retracts the lips. Each time the camera

FLASHES, there's a bright glow inside the cheeks.

NEW ANGLE - CHEST HIGH

as Clarice examines a developing print.

She hands the print to Crawford; he and Lamar look at it, as

she searches in her kit.

Clarice holds up a pair of forceps. She glances at Crawford,

who nods. She bends over, partially OUT OF SHOT, and after a

few moments reappears, holding up a small, brown cylindrical

object. She turns this in the air, as they all stare.

Clarice and Crawford exchange a glance.

SOUND of the men's heavy efforts as they turn over the body,

off screen. She seals the jar, staring into it at the cocoon.

She turns to look.

HER POV

low on the corpse's back, over the shoulders, two neat,

triangular patches of skin are missing.

NEW ANGLE - TWO SHOT

as Clarice looks at Crawford.

Clarice raises her camera, leans in for another FLASH.

EXT. BACK STEPS OF THE FUNERAL HOME - DAY

Clarice sits outside, with her head on her knees, drained.

She looks up wanly as Lamar appears, offers her a can of

Coke.

She smiles, touched, and takes the can. When Lamar sees

Crawford coming outside, he tactfully departs. Crawford sits

beside her; there's a brief silence. She soothes herself

with the can.

She looks at him a moment, then offers the can. He opens it.

He looks at her for a moment, then sips again.

INT. MR. GUMB'S CELLAR - DAY (DIM LIGHT)

A shadowy male figure looks down at us, leaning over the

edge of a deep hole. He holds a little white poodle in his

arms, stroking it. This is MR. GUMB, aka "Buffalo Bill."

CATHERINE MARTIN

looks up at him. She is standing on the cement bottom of the

pit, or oubliette, about 15 feet below floor level. The pit

is bare, except for a futon and a plastic toilet bucket,

from which a thin string rises up to the basement. She's

soaking wet, in an orange jumpsuit, and holds a squeeze bottle

of skin lotion. She struggles to sound calm.

REVERSE ANGLE - UP TOWARDS MR. GUMB

The little dog squirms in his arms, BARKING excitedly.

SIDE ANGLE - AT PIT BOTTOM

as Catherine kneels, turning slightly away from him.

She unzips her jumpsuit, part-way, then squeezes some of the

lotion onto a palm. She reaches inside her suit, rubs it on.

A sudden blinding glare of light silences her. She looks up,

shielding her eyes.

HER POV

a floodlamp is descending, attached to a small basket.

NEW ANGLE - CATHERINE

as the basket stops, and she steadies it. But as she slips

the bottle in, she sees something, O.S., just at the fringe

of the light. She hesitates, looks closer... then begins to

scream, hysterically, again and again. Her outflung hand

hits the lamp, and in its swaying glare, we see - high on

the concrete walls, all around her -

BLOODY FINGER TRACKS

dried now, brownish - left by many pairs of frenzied hands...

INT.CLARICE'S DORM ROOM - FBI ACADEMY - DAWN

Clarice is at her desk, exercising her right hand with the

grip flexer, while simultaneously studying a thick law book.

Ardelia sticks her head in the door, excited.

INT. RECREATION ROOM - FBI ACADEMY - DAWN

CLOSE ON a TV screen, filled with a photo of Catherine Martin.

The photo disappears, replaced by the TV ANCHOR himself.

CLARICE

looks at Ardelia, surprised. Other trainees are drifting

into the rec room, some whispering among themselves. Clarice

stares back at the TV intently.

BACK ON THE TV ANCHOR

SENATOR MARTIN (TV FOOTAGE)

fills the screen, in a halo of lens flare, as she speaks to

a jostling crowd of reporters on the front steps of her

Georgetown home. A tall woman, late 40's, with a strong,

taut face.

Clarice is moved by what she sees. Other trainees are all

around her.

ON THE TV AGAIN

NEW FOOTAGE

as we see (NIGHT, TELEPHOTO) - a taped-off section of

Catherine's parking lot. Technicians, with instruments, are

kneeling by the crushed grocery bag.

MOVING ANGLE (STILL TV FOOTAGE)

as Jack Crawford is seen striding towards the front door of

Catherine's apartment, followed by Burroughs and other agents.

One of them moves quickly towards the CAMERA, waving it back.

REC ROOM ANGLE - FAVORING ARDELIA

as the other trainees send up a brief, ironic cheer. But

Ardelia turns sympathetically towards the troubled Clarice.

EXT. SMITHSONIAN - MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - DAY

The massive Victorian building looms over Constitution Avenue.

Clarice quickly mounts the steps, carrying a small plastic

box.

INT. MUSEUM CORRIDOR - DAY

Clarice, now accompanied by a museum guard, walks through an

eerie landscape of dinosaur bones - crouching skeletons with

blank eye sockets, gaping fangs.

INT. MUSEUM OFFICE - DAY

CLOSE ON an live, enormous, rhinoceros beetle, as it weaves

its clumsy way among the men on a chessboard, before finally

stepping off the edge, onto a lettuce leaf.

WIDER ANGLE

shows two entomologists, both 30ish, hunched over the board.

RODEN is a pudgy redhead; PILCHER is lean, quite handsome.

They look up, delighted to see Clarice in the doorway. Both

men are hopelessly smitten by her.

INT. ENTOMOLOGY CORRIDOR - DAY

MOVING ANGLE as Clarice and the two men go briskly down a

hall lined with mounted insects, in all shapes and sizes.

Roden peers at Clarice's new cocoon, in its box.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

VERY CLOSE (MAGNIFICATION) on the sliced cocoon, as Roden

uses tweezers and a dental probe to ease out the sodden

chrysalis.

THE TWO MEN

are hunched over a formica table, peering through square

magnifiers into stainless trays. Clarice watches curiously.

Of their two specimens, Pilcher's moth is in much better

condition - a big brown creature, its wings outspread on

towel paper.

He looks up at her, shyly. A little moment passes between

them, before Roden straightens, exultant.

He moves aside for Clarice to get a closer look at Pilcher's

specimen. She leans forward, intently.

HER POV (MAGNIFICATION)

the wide, furry, brown back of the moth. And there, right

between the wing bases - wonderful and terrible to see - is

nature's perfect reproduction of a ghostly human skull.

FAVORING CLARICE

as she looks up at him, awed, excited, almost trembling.

As the two men stare at her, puzzled, we hear a SOUND UPCUT -

the wail of police SIRENS - and...

EXT. U.S. ROUTE 95 - DAY (AERIAL SHOT)

An awesome armada of police vehicles swings through an

intersection, while normal traffic is held back by highway

patrol cruisers.

The lead cars turn off, hit the entrance ramp to the freeway -

SIRENS going, tires SQUEALING, red flashers...

CLOSER ANGLE

on a speeding surveillance van, with long antennas and a

small satellite dish, near the head of the motorcade.

INT. THE SURVEILLANCE VAN - DAY (DRIVING)

The van is crammed with an impressive array of hi-tech

equipment, all CLICKING and HUMMING. Burroughs is talking

quietly on a scrambler phone, while another agent works a

computer.

CLARICE AND CRAWFORD

sit in swivel seats at the rear, by a big window. Clarice

can't resit an occasional peak at the trailing motorcade,

awed and a bit thrilled to be the center of so much attention.

Clarice looks at him, surprised.

INT. BALTIMORE STATE HOSP. FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE - DAY

Chilton approaches, walking briskly down a corridor in the

administration wing. He looks quite agitated.

Chilton falls into step beside Clarice, who has her briefcase.

He points his gold pen at her accusingly.

She stares at him, with pity and distaste, till he lets go.

She walks away, leaving him speechless with frustration and

hostility. He clicks his pen, watching her go.

INT. DR. LECTER'S CELL AND CORRIDOR - DAY

Dr. Lecter sits at his table, languidly sketching with

charcoal on butcher paper.

He uses his own hand and forearm as a model. His other

drawings, books, and bedding have been restored.

Clarice, sitting again at the desk-chair, is taking papers

from her briefcase.

Clarice looks down at her papers, taking a moment to collect

her thoughts. She looks up at him again, evenly.

He is silent. She rises, moves closer, carrying papers.

His face remains neutral. She puts the papers in his food

tray.

A measured beat, before he rises smoothly, crosses, and looks

down at the papers, without touching them.

She looks at him. A beat. They are standing uncomfortably

close.

Clarice cannot bear the feverish excitement in his eyes. She

looks past him, hesitating again.

Suddenly Dr. Lecter snarls, loudly, stretching. Clarice take

a sharp step backwards before he smiles, turning his movement

into an elaborate yawn. He gathers the papers from his tray.

INT. MR. GUMB'S CELLAR - DAY

VERY CLOSE ON a cocoon, split along its back, as a living

Death's-head Moth wriggles torturously free. Trembling and

damp, the new creature clings to a sprig of nightshade.

PULLING BACK

we see a big wire cage, holding several of the moths. They

crawl over the humus floor or feed at honeycombs, wings

pumping lazily. In the distant background, the incongruous

SOUND of show music.

CONTINUOUS MOVING ANGLE

at about knee level, as we leave the cage, and begin to TRAVEL

through this eerie, dimly-lit warren of a cellar.

As we go - occasionally TURNING corners, or skirting the

dark openings of unexplored passages - various objects loom

briefly INTO VIEW, overhead - a stainless-steel work table...

a big sink... jars of chemicals... neat racks of gleaming

knives...

We pass a row of female mannequins, some nude, some wearing

colorful leather jackets, designer knockoffs, in various

stages of completion... then a huge maroon armoire, in Chinese

lacquer; its double doors are slightly ajar... The jaunty

background.

MUSIC is growing even louder: Fats Waller singing "Bye Bye

Baby." And now we hear something else, too - the rapid

CLICKING of a sewing machine...

We TURN another corner, and there is Mr. Gumb himself. As we

APPROACH, his wide back is to us; he's hunched over an old-

fashioned sewing machine, humming cheerfully, and working a

piece of material that we mercifully cannot see. A female

wig rests near him on a head form. He wears a hairnet and a

beautiful kimono, and pumps the treadle with his bare feet.

Next to Mr. Gumb is an antique phonograph - source of the

MUSIC. His little dog, Precious, perches by his plump ankles.

As we PASS Mr. Gumb, Precious scurries away from him, panting

happily, and we FOLLOW the little dog down another corridor,

the music starting to fade behind us...

At the end of this final corridor, the cellar widens into a

low-ceilinged chamber, with two additional doorways, and in

the center of this is the gaping circle of the oubliette.

Precious sniffs her way over to the edge - excited, tail

wagging - than BARKS happily as we hear a hoarse, ghostly

moan from below.

INT. DR. LECTER'S CORRIDOR - DAY

MOVING ANGLE - CLOSE ON Dr. Lecter's slippered feet, which

rest on the shelf of a rolling hand truck. RISING along his

tilted form, we see that his ankles are linked by steel

restraints... his legs, waist, upper torso, and arms are

bound by heavy canvas webbing... beneath the webbing is a

strait-jacket... and over his face is a hockey mask.

WIDER ANGLE

shows that Dr. Lecter, on the handtruck, is being pushed

down his corridor by Barney, and back into his open cell.

INT. DR. LECTER'S CELL - DAY

Chilton lounges on Dr. Lecter's cot, casually reading his

large stack of private correspondence, and making notations

with his gold pen on a little pad. Another orderly mops the

floor.

Barney props the hand truck into position, then both orderlies

go. Chilton finishes another letter, sighs happily.

Tossing letters onto the cot, he rises, crosses out into the

corridor, and bends to remove a small tape recorder from

underneath Clarice's desk. He waggles it triumphantly at Dr.

Lecter.

SIDE ANGLE - TWO SHOT

as Chilton, back in the cell, leans tauntingly close to the

front of Dr. Lecter's mask.

CLOSE ON Dr. Lecter's glittering eyes, behind their slits.

DR. LECTER'S POV (FRAMED BY EYE-SLITS)

first looking at Chilton's moving lips... then LOWERING to

his soft, white, inviting throat...

FAVORING CHILTON

as he sits chummily on the table.

CLOSE AGAIN ON DR. LECTER'S EYES

as they shift restlessly, away from Chilton - then suddenly

lock onto something. They widen with interest.

DR. LECTER'S POV - EXTREME CLOSEUP

On the cot, carelessly left there, lying half-hidden under

the letters and the rumpled sheet... is Chilton's gold pen.

BACK ON DR. LECTER

as he stares a moment longer at the pen, then shifts his

eyes towards Chilton. We can almost hear his brain clicking.

A beat. Dr. Lecter is silent. Chilton sticks his face INTO

SHOT, almost intimately close to the mask. He is agitated.

INT. JOHNS HOPKINS - GENDER IDENTITY CLINIC - DAY

MOVING ANGLE - as the very impatient Crawford, clutching a

folder, strides down a hall beside DR. DANIELSON - early

50's, severe, in a lab coat. Nurses, doctors, glance as they

pass.

Danielson enters a cramped, stainless steel nurse's gallery,

with Crawford following, and pours himself a cup of coffee.

He takes a black & white photo from his folder, slaps it

down in front of Danielson. From our angle, we can't see it

clearly.

Burroughs sticks his head in, looking for Crawford.

Burroughs hurriedly retreats. Crawford strains for patience.

INT. THE SURVEILLANCE VAN - DAY

Crawford is on the scrambler phone. Burroughs watches

silently.

INT. FBI BUILDING - OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR - DAY

HAYDEN BURKE, the FBI Director, swivels in his big chair.

Lean, late 40's, very distinguished. His desk is flanked by

flags.

Listening to the answer, he looks uncomfortably across his

desk at PAUL KRENDLER, the Deputy Attorney General - 40,

very tanned, modish haircut. Krendler is irritable, impatient.

INT. THE SURVEILLANCE VAN - DAY

Burroughs starts to make an objection, but Crawford stills

him with a hand motion. He is taut, frustrated. Long pause.

INT.CLARICE'S DORM ROOM - DOORWAY - DAY

Clarice opens her door, stares out at Crawford. She's just

slipping on her blazer, over her shoulder holster. She's

furious.

EXT. FBI ACADEMY GROUNDS - QUANTICO - DAY

MOVING ANGLE on Clarice and Crawford, as they walk along a

sidewalk, sipping from paper cups. The surveillance van trails

them slowly, radios CRACKLING.

He looks at her steadily, then nods. They walk on.

She smiles at this acknowledgment; he never thought she's

quit.

INT. AIR NATIONAL GUARD HANGER - MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE - DAY

CLOSE ON Dr. Lecter. Behind his mask, the alert, searching

eyes.

OFFICERS PEMBRY AND BOYLE

two sturdy, well-armed, veteran prison guards - are checking

Dr. Lecter's restraints with clever, careful fingers.

The officers turn away, Boyle signing a clipboarded form.

NEW ANGLE - WIDER

as we see that we're in a vast, dusty hangar. Parked to one

side: an EMS ambulance and four highway patrol cruisers; a

dozen troopers stand quietly chatting and smoking over there.

Prentiss is pacing impatiently, casting anxious glances

towards the open hanger doorway.

Chilton instinctively pats his shirt pocket for his gold

pen; it's gone. He searches other pockets, with growing

unhappiness.

TWO BLACK STRETCH LIMOUSINES

glide smoothly into the hangar, stop. Secret Service agents

pour out of the lead car, form a cordon. A driver opens the

rear door of the second car, and Krendler steps out, followed

by the Senator's assistant, with a briefcase, followed, as

last, by the Senator herself. Barely glancing around, she

strides towards Lecter.

NEW ANGLE - DR. LECTER AND SEN. MARTIN

as she stops, struck by the bizarre spectacle of his

restraints. The others instinctively keep a distance, but

Chilton, with theatrical relish, unstraps and removes Dr.

Lecter's mask.

They stare at one another for a long moment: the Senator

tense, almost haggard, the madman with his unearthly poise.

He assistant unsnaps his briefcase, reaches for the form.

Krendler raises a pad, poised to take notes.

He flicks his tongue obscenely.

The Senator stills him with a hand. She is trembling.

They start towards the car, but he calls out, stopping her.

INT. MR. GUMB'S BASEMENT - DAY (DIMLY LIT)

CLOSE ON scraps of food - peas, chicken bones - lying on the

cement floor of the pit, near the foil tray of a TV dinner.

CATHERINE

is hunched over in concentration. The plastic toilet bucket

is on her lap, and she has yanked down its cotton string.

HER FINGERS

are tying a chicken bone to the bucket's handle, where it

meets the string. The other end of the string is tied to her

wrist.

SHE STANDS

gathers the coiled string in one hand, and swings the bucket

by its handle, calculating this distance up to the basement

floor.

She hurls the bucket upwards.

AT THE LIP OF THE OUBLIETTE

the bucket sails out, bounces LOUDLY, then falls back inside.

ANGLE ON THE DOG, PRECIOUS

who is elsewhere in the basement, worrying a toy. She cocks

an ear, making a low GROWL, then sets off to investigate.

DOWN IN THE PIT

Catherine swings the bucket again, trying another cast.

THE BUCKET LANDS

two feet beyond the pit's edge, rolls a bit, stops.

PRECIOUS TROTS UP

then pauses, staring curiously towards...

VERY LOW ANGLE (DOG'S POV)

the enticing chicken bone, six feet away. It twitches as

Catherine tugs on the string, edging the bucket back towards

the pit.

Precious with her tail wagging, BARKS - greedy but suspicious.

CATHERINE

staring upwards, pulls again, even so gently, at the string.

PRECIOUS

edges reluctantly closer... then suddenly rushes in, seizing

the bone in her teeth. She tries to run away with it, but

Catherine is pulling her towards the hole, working her like

a hooked fish. Her toenails scrabble as she tries to stop.

CATHERINE

stares desperately, unable to see how she's doing.

PRECIOUS

still fights for the bone, GROWLING, as the bucket rocks

precariously on the edge of the pit. A long, seesaw battle...

until finally, when one of her forelegs slips momentarily

into the hole, she panics and lets go. The bucket flops over

the edge.

CATHERINE

crouches, covering her head as the bucket bounces off her.

THE LITTLE DOG

furious, BARKS down at her, then trots away in disgust.

CLOSE ON CATHERINE

as she sinks to the cold cement. She slaps aside the foil

tray, the scraps of food, sobbing in utter despair...

INT. CATHERINE MARTIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY

CLOSE ON a framed photo of Sen. Martin and Catherine, held

in Clarice's cotton-gloved hands. Powdered fingerprints on

the glass.

Clarice glances up from the photo, smiles disarmingly at -

A young STATE TROOPER sitting in Catherine's easy chair. He

smiles back at her, then relaxes, returns to his newspaper.

He also wears gloves.

INT. KITCHEN

Clarice closes the refrigerator door, glances around.

A big REEL-TO-REEL TAPE RECORDER has been set up on the

breakfast counter, attached to Catherine's phone. Two new

red phones are hooked up as well.

INT. BATHROOM

Clarice slides open the medicine cabinet's mirror, looks

inside. She reaches in, pokes carefully amongst the lotions.

INT. ATTIC CRAWL-SPACE

A ceiling hatch bangs open, sending up dust clouds. Clarice,

lit from underneath, pokes her head through, looking around.

INT. BEDROOM

Flat on her back, Clarice wriggles out from under Catherine's

bed. She sits up, brushing dust from her face and hair.

INT. BEDROOM

CLOSE ON an open, multi-tiered jewelry box, resting atop a

bureau, as Clarice's fingers pick through costume jewelry.

Clarice closes the box, and is just turning away when a figure

suddenly looms INTO SHOT, giving her a bad start; she cries

out softly.

Senator Martin is revealed, staring at her suspiciously.

Krendler enters from the hallway, looks at Clarice.

Overcome, she hurries from the room. Krendler shuts the door

behind her, points sternly at Clarice.

Clarice, burning, starts for the door, then turns back.

Clarice reacts, surprised. Krendler takes a folded computer

sheet from his pocket, shoves it at her. She takes it, reads.

Krendler moves in very close to her, pale with anger.

EXT. SHELBY COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY

The old courthouse is a massive Gothic stronghold, with an

armada of police cruisers parked at the curb.

Clarice climbs from her rented car, SLAMMING the door angrily.

Holding a rolled-up pile of papers - Dr. Lecter's drawings -

she starts determinedly up the steps. A nearby commotion

makes her pause.

Dr. Frederick Chilton in a sea of interviewers and mini-cams,

is preening grandly.

Clarice carefully avoiding his gaze, slips up the steps and

inside.

INT. COURTHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR - DAY

SGT. TATE, a Memphis policeman, is studying Clarice's ID. He

looks up at her from his command desk, a bit doubtfully.

He picks up a phone, murmurs into it. As he does so, Clarice

glances around this main ground floor lobby.

HER POV

The building looks like an armed fort. Cops with shotguns

guard the front door, both ends of the hall, the foot of the

stairs, the single elevator. More of them are coming and

going.

INT. ELEVATOR - MOVING

Clarice and OFFICER MURRAY, a young patrolman, ride up in an

old-fashioned, CREAKING, metal-cage elevator. He is excited.

INT. HISTORICAL SOCIETY ROOM - 5TH FLOOR

Pembry, at a desk by the door, looks up from examining the

unrolled pile of Dr. Lecter's drawings.

He waves her on her way, but retains the drawings for now.

MOVING ANGLE - WITH CLARICE

as she crosses the big, spare, white octagonal room. A

massive, temporary iron cage has been installed; Officer

Boyle sits facing its barred door. He rises, nods, moving

away to allow her privacy.

INSIDE THE CAGE

a cot and a small table, each bolted to the floor, and a

flimsy paper screen, hiding a toilet. Dr. Lecter sits at the

table, his back to her, studying the Buffalo Bill case file.

He now wears a green prison jumpsuit. A small cassette player

is chained to the steel table.

She stops at a striped police barricade, before his bars.

He spins in his swivel chair, stops neatly. A coy smile.

He spins again in his chair, playfully.

MOVING ANGLE - FAVORING CLARICE

as she circles the cage, trying to keep his face in sight.

CLOSE ANGLE - TWO SHOT as he rises, pained by her ignorance,

and crosses to the bars.

She turns from him. He presses closer, gripping the bars.

IN FLASHBACK

The 10-year old Clarice sits up abruptly in her bed,

frightened. She is in a Montana ranch house; it almost dawn.

Strange, fearful shadows on her ceiling and walls... a window,

partly fogged by the cold; eerie brightness outside.

THE CHILD RISES

crosses to the window in her nightgown, rubs the glass.

HIGH ANGLES (2ND STORY) - THE CHILD'S POV

Shadowy men, ranch hands, are moving in and out of a nearby

barn, carrying mysterious bundles. The mens' breath is

steaming... A refrigerated truck idles nearby, its engine

adding more steam. A strange, almost surrealistic scene...

THE LITTLE GIRL

is terrified; she covers her ears.

THE LITTLE GIRL

in her winter coat, slips noiselessly towards the open barn

door. She ducks into the shadows to avoid a ranch hand, who

passes her with a squirming bundle of some kind. He goes

into the barn, and she edges after him reluctantly.

THE LITTLE GIRL'S POV

as the open doorway LOOMS CLOSER... Bright lights inside,

straw bales, the edges of stalls, then moving figures...

A SQUIRMING LAMB

is held down on a table by two ranch hands.

A third cowboy stretches out the lamb's neck, raises a bloody

knife. Just as he's about to slice its throat -

BACK TO THE ADULT CLARICE

staring into the distance, shaken, still trembling from the

child's shock. We see Dr. Lecter, over her shoulder, studying

her intently.

IN FLASHBACK

a vast Montana plain, and crossing this, a tiny figure - the

little Clarice, holding a lamb in her arms.

The tiny figure stops, and after a few moments sinks to the

ground, hunched over in dispair.

BACK TO SCENE

as the adult Clarice turns, staring into his feverish eyes.

She shakes her head, unwilling - or unable - to say more.

NEW ANGLE

as Clarice turns, startled, and the fuming Chilton seizes

her elbow. Pembry and Boyle are beside him, looking grim.

Clarice struggles, pulling free of them for a moment.

He holds out the file, arm extended between the bars. She

hesitates, then reaches to take it.

VERY CLOSE ANGLE - SLOW MOTION

as the exchange is made, his index finger touches her hand,

and lingers there, just for a moment.

DR. LECTER'S EYES

widen, crackling at this touch, like sparks in a cave.

CLARICE

hugging the case file to her chest, stares back at him as

the men crowd in on her, pushing her away.

HER POV - MOVING

as Dr. Lecter, head cocked in a smile, slowly recedes...

INT. GARMENT SWEATSHOP - DAY

MOVING ANGLE - MR. GUMB'S POV as he pushes a rolling rack of

completed leather garments, each wrapped in plastic, down as

aisle. SOUND of many sewing machines, all clattering at once,

as he passes row on row of work tables. The seamstresses,

mostly black or Hispanic, glance up as he passes, then quickly

avert their eyes, his presence disturbing them in some

nameless way.

A thin FOREMAN in a flowery shirt, sees him approaching. He

rises from his desk and comes over cheerfully, as the rack

rolls to a stop.

He seizes one of the dangling jackets, pulling up the plastic

wrapper. He examines it, stroking the sleeve.

The foreman quickly releases the jacket.

Mr. Gumb's hand reaches INTO SHOT, snatching an envelope

from him. The foreman is watching him walk away, as a

seamstress comes over to take the rack of garments. The

foreman is vaguely troubled, but shakes it off. He strokes

the jacket again, admiringly.

SOUND UPCUT - Glenn Gould playing Bach's Goldberg

Variations...

INT. MEMPHIS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - LOUNGE AREA - DUSK

Clarice, in a line of other passengers, is moving slowly

towards a departure ramp. Through a huge plate glass window,

we can see her plane. She glances back over her shoulder at

A pair of UNIFORMED COPS brawny and impassive, their arms

folded, waiting to make sure she board the flight.

Clarice sighs, turning wearily back towards the jetway. The

BACH CONTINUES, as we...

INT. SHELBY CO. COURTHOUSE - HISTORICAL SOCIETY ROOM -

NIGHT

CLOSE ON a steaming, rather elegant dinner tray, being carried

by Pembry, as he approaches Dr. Lecter's cell.

IN THE CELL

the BACH is issuing from the cassette player. Beside it, on

the table, the pile of Dr. Lecter's drawings. The top one is

an accurate, sensitive portrait, from memory, of Clarice.

Beyond the table, we see Lecter's shadowy form, seated behind

the paper screen. He calls out from there.

Pembry grunts, sets the tray down. Boyle joins him, handing

him a riot baton and a Mace cannister, which Pembry fastens

to belt clips. Boyle is similarly armed, and carries a ring

of keys.

INSIDE THE SCREEN

Dr. Lecter sits fully clothed on the toilet - swaying

slightly, eyes closed, lost in the music, tongue working in

his cheek. Suddenly, like magic, a little shiny piece of

metal protrudes from his lips. He plucks it out, opens his

eyes.

IN EXTREME CLOSEUP

he is holding the pocket clip from Prentice's disassembled

pen - a straight, thin strip of metal, with a circular collar

at one end, a square edge at the other.

DR. LECTER

lines up his thumbnail just shy of the square edge, then

braces it against the stainless steel toilet rim. He pushes

down, hard, using both hands for leverage. After a moment he

smiles, holding up the result, and twirling it before his

eyes.

IN EXTREME CLOSEUP

the straight end of the clip now forms a tiny right angle,

and the circular end anchors nicely between his fingers.

OUTSIDE THE CELL

Pembry and Boyle turn as the toilet FLUSHES, and Dr. Lecter

reappears, looking jaunty.

Dr. Lecter sits on the floor, legs straight, then wriggles

backwards. He stretches his arms behind him, hands and wrists

through the bars, with two bars between them, and clasps his

hands.

Pembry comes around the cell to squat behind Dr. Lecter. He

tugs his hands farther out, rather roughly, handcuffs his

wrists. He shakes the cuffs, making sure of them, then nods

to Boyle.

NEW ANGLE - AT CELL DOOR

as Boyle picks up the dinner tray, and Pembry crosses around.

Pembry takes the keys from Boyle, unlocks the cell door, and

pushes it inward. Boyle goes inside with the tray.

DR. LECTER

watches as Boyle approaches the table, above five feet from

him. Boyle has to set his tray down on the floor to clear

off some of the mess of drawings. The MUSIC plays on.

VERY CLOSE ON

...Dr. Lecter's hands, outside the bars, as the makeshift

key, held between the tips of his right index and middle

fingers, searches for the keyhole of the cuffs. And finds

it.

NEW ANGLE - FAVORING BOYLE

as he finishes clearing the drawings, then turns back towards

Dr. Lecter, stooping to pick up the tray.

BOYLE'S RIGHT HAND

is just inches from the tray when Dr. Lecter's hand darts

INTO SHOT, snapping a handcuff onto his wrist.

BOYLE

looks up, astonished, to find himself right in the grinning

face of Dr. Lecter - who just as quickly rolls sideways, and

snaps -

THE OTHER CUFF

around the bolted leg of the table. And suddenly all natural

SOUND and MOTION are suspended, as the MUSIC soars much

louder, each separate note of it now echoing distinctly, and

we see...

VARIOUS ANGLES - EACH BLURRING INTO STOP-ACTION

Pembry starting into the cell, reaching for his riot baton...

Dr. Lecter smashing against the cell door, driving it into

Pembry, pinning him across the chest, against the door

frame...

Boyle, on one knee on the floor, digging desperately in his

pants pocket for his handcuff key...

Pembry's hand, mashed against his body by the door, as he

strains frantically to reach the baton at his waist...

Pembry's eyes, widening in horror as he stares at...

Dr. Lecter's bared teeth, flashing towards him...

Dr. Lecter gripping Pembry's face in his jaws, shaking it

like a dog shakes a rat...

Boyle finding his key, but in his terror dropping it...

Dr. Lecter yanking the mace can and riot baton from the dazed

Pembry's belt, spraying him in his bloody face, then clubbing

him to his knees...

Boyle, mouth open in a silent scream, finding his key again,

unlocking the handcuff, but then, as he starts to rise,

seeing...

Dr. Lecter standing over him, with the riot baton raised

high; he swings it viciously down, again and again and

again...

Then normal SOUND and MOTION are restored as we go to -

CLOSE ANGLE ON

the cassette player, and the portrait of Clarice, both now

flecked with blood. In addition to the Bach, we now hear

soft PANTING, close by, and whimpering SOBS in the background.

ANGLE ON DR. LECTER

eyes closed, lost in a favorite passage of the music. His

bloody fingers drift airily with the notes, as his breathing

slows to normal. He opens his eyes, sighs contentedly, looks

down.

HIS POV

By the sprawled legs of Boyle lie various objects that spilled

from his pants pocket - coins, a comb, a big pocketknife.

DR. LECTER

picks up the pocketknife, examines it happily. About a four-

inch blade. He becomes aware of the WHIMPERING, off screen,

turns.

LOW ANGLE ON PEMBRY

as he crawls, with torturous slowness, towards the command

desk, and the phone. He is crying, but frantically determined.

PEMBRY'S POV - PARTIALLY BLURRED, THEN CLEARING

Above the desk, hanging from pegs, are his and Boyle's

holstered revolvers...

INT. COURTHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR LOBBY - NIGHT

The bronze arrow above the elevator swings towards "5," then

indicates a stop there, at the top floor.

FAVORING SGT. TATE

at his command desk, as he stares at the indicator. Another

cop, JACOBS, sits on the desk's edge, flipping through a

magazine; many more cops can be seen beyond them, idling in

the lobby.

A GUNSHOT, and then, moments later, TWO MORE quick ones,

echo down the nearby stairwell. Sgt. Tate jumps to his feet,

grabs a radio mike, as the other cops stir, confused and

noisy.

THE BRONZE ARROW

has begun to descend. Down to 4, then past 4...

BACK ON SGT. TATE

as he reacts. The other cops, behind him, are now in a full

uproar, shouting, pulling out guns.

THE BRONZE ARROW

has, indeed, frozen at 3. Sgt. Tate lifts the microphone

again.

INT. STAIRWELL - NIGHT (DIMLY LIT)

HIGH ANGLE on Sgt. Tate as he leads a five-man squad, all in

bulletproof vests, up the stone stairs. They move fast but

carefully, covering each other from landing to landing with

drawn revolvers, shotguns. The distant Back MUSIC makes a

ghostly echo in here...

INT. THIRD FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT (DIMLY LIT)

A thin rectangle of light on the floor from the open elevator

door. We can't see inside. The MUSIC sounds closer.

SGT. TATE

approaches very cautiously, gun aimed. The other cops, behind

him, fan out silently to set up angles of fire, checking the

various office doors - all locked - as they creep up.

MOVING ANGLE - OVER TATE'S SHOULDER

as he reaches the side of the elevator, hesitates, then spins

to point his gun inside. It's empty. He backs away.

INT. HISTORICAL SOCIETY ROOM - NIGHT (BRIGHTLY LIT)

ANGLE on the door, from inside, its lettering reversed on

the frosted glass. The Bach is VERY LOUD.

After a moment the door is shouldered open, hard enough for

the glass to shatter, Tate following his gun inside, moving

low, then other cops appearing behind him in the doorframe.

They all freeze, staring in utter horror.

THEIR POV

is a brief snapshot from hell. The two uniformed bodies, one

sprawled on its back near the door, the other still in the

cell, have been savaged by a knife. Blood and gore everywhere.

The faces are unrecognizable.

SGT. TATE

struggles for control, as the other cops move grimly around

him, into the room. He pulls his walkie-talkie from his belt.

IN THE CELL

a cop angrily punches OFF the music. Jacobs kneels with his

fingers on Boyle's neck.

AT THE OTHER BODY

a cop gently removes a revolver from the bloody fist. Murray,

the young patrolman, brings his ear reluctantly close to the

gory face. A bloody bubble appears there; the wreckage GROANS,

very softly.

Tate crosses, kneels to see for himself. Murray looks green.

The other cop, checking the cylinder of Pembry's gun, holds

up one finger to Tate.

EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF COURTHOUSE - NIGHT

VARIOUS ANGLES on a floodlit scene of barely controlled

pandemonium. Flashing red lights, men shouting commands,

SIRENS in the distance. SWAT members, in full gear, leap

from a black van... fan out... swarm up the steps... EMS

orderlies unload a gurney from an ambulance... Cops kneel

for cover behind cars, aiming guns and rifles up at the

windows...

INT. HISTORICAL SOCIETY ROOM - NIGHT

A trio of EMS orderlies work fast over the body, already

strapped on its gurney. They bandage a big plastic airway

into place, over the butchered face, checking for a pulse at

the neck. Young Murray crouches, sickened, gripping a bloody

fist.

One orderly massages the heart. Another is popping a plasma

bag, ready to insert the needle, when the body starts

convulsing.

Quickly the gurney is elevated, wheeled out of the room,

with cops rushing forward to open the doors, help push, SWAT

men are running by in the hall, automatic rifles at the

ready...

INT. THE ELEVATOR - DESCENDING - NIGHT

Sgt. Tate, riding down with Jacobs, has his radio out.

A spot of blood falls on his cheek. He and Jacobs stare at

each other. Another spot hits his shoulder. They look up.

THEIR POV

Blood is dripping slowly from the corner of the service hatch.

Sgt. Tate motions for silence, as both men draw their guns.

INT. GROUND FLOOR LOBBY - NIGHT

The elevator doors open, and Tate and Jacobs hurry out,

stepping quickly to the side. Tate reaches back in and -

CLOSE ANGLE

Locks the elevator into position, with its doors open.

OTHER COPS are rushing up to them, curious, as Tate

frantically pushes them aside, gesturing for silence.

INT. THIRD FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Two SWAT officers, PETERSON and KUBELL, turn a key, unlocking

and opening this floor's elevator doorway. The shaft is dark.

Lying prone, they inch up to the edge, Peterson extends a

mirror, on a long pole, out into the shaft.

IN THE MIRROR (DISTORTED BY THE ANGLE)

Is a distant figure, in a green prison jumpsuit, lying on

his stomach, atop the elevator. A shiny revolver is near one

hand.

PETERSON

whispers into a radio, as Kubell carefully tips an assault

rifle, with a flashlight taped to its barrel, over the edge.

Peterson nods to Kubell, who switches ON the flashlight, as

Peterson shouts down the shaft.

IN THE MIRROR

the green figure shows no movement.

ANGLE ON THE COPS AGAIN

as Peterson mutters to Kubell.

VERY CLOSE ON

The figure below, as Kubell's gunshot ROARS, echoing hugely

in the shaft, and a slug rips through the jumpsuited leg.

The figure doesn't stir.

PETERSON

staring down the shaft, raises his mike again.

INT. GROUND FLOOR LOBBY - NIGHT

A small army of cops is now covering the elevator doorway,

from both sides. Tate crouches next to the SWAT COMMANDER.

The SWAT commander hands his radio to another cop, then looks

at Tate. A long, tense moment. Then he waves a signal.

MOVING ANGLE

as we follow a picked team of four SWAT cops, in full body

armor, rushing into the elevator car. Two men move to the

corners, aim assault rifles at the ceiling. A third man sets

a stepladder in place, and the fourth man, armed with a big

Colt, hurries up the ladder and unclips the hatch.

CLOSE ON

...the service hatch, as the hinged cover drops open, and a

body tumbles through, dangling head first, until it's caught

at the waist. We see the back of the head.

SGT. TATE

shoulders through the SWAT cops for a closer look. He turns

towards the SWAT commander, astonished.

INT. EMS AMBULANCE - MOVING

In the rear chamber, a young EMS ATTENDANT is braced against

the vehicle's sway. Behind him, the stretchered form of his

patient, and, through a curtained opening, the driver. SOUND

of the siren.

Behind him, in slightly BLURRED FOCUS, the bloody figure

sits slowly upright...

Suddenly he stops, becoming aware of a strange HISSING. He

turns, puzzled...

THE POCKETKNIFE BLADE

in Lecter's fist, flashes high in the air...

EXT. SIX-LANE FREEWAY - NIGHT (ARC LIGHTS)

MOVING ANGLE on the EMS ambulance, as it races along normally,

its SIREN blazing, the heavy flow of traffic parting to make

way for it.

Then suddenly it begins to weave erratically, changing lanes,

before drifting dangerously to a full stop, almost side-ways.

Cars swerve to avoid hitting it, HONKING angrily...

CLOSER ANGLE

on the stopped ambulance. After a long, still moment, the

wind-shield wipes come on, incongruously, then stop. Then

the SIREN is shut OFF, and the flashers. The ambulance starts

rolling again - at first jerkingly, then with increasing

speed. We follow it for several more moments, until is passes -

and we LINGER on...

BIG GREEN INTERSTATE SIGN

...that reads "Memphis International Airport / 2 miles."

CLOSE ANGLE - THROUGH AMBULANCE WINDSHIELD

Dr. Lecter's face is slowly REVEALED, as he wipes across it

with a fistful of gauze, tossing it aside...

EXT. MONTANA PLAIN - DUSK - (IN FLASHBACK)

MOVING ANGLE, rushing with dizzy swiftness over the prairie,

over waving grasses... a long passage... before we come at

last to the girl Clarice, sitting with her lamb, hunched in

despair. She rises, her face tear-stained, and turns from

us. Holding the lamb, she starts back the way she came...

EXT. COUNTRY DIRT ROAD - NIGHT - BRIGHT MOONLIGHT

MOVING ANGLE, very rapid, down this road... coming at last

to a stopped highway patrol car. Clarice, with her lamb, is

standing in the car's headlights. She starts wearily towards

the sheriff...

EXT. RANCH BARNYARD - NEAR DAWN

CRANE ANGLE - sweeping rapidly DOWN into the barnyard towards

the arriving highway patrol car, as it stops... RUSHING to

the little girl as she steps from the car, holding the lamb.

The dark figure of the rancher ENTERS FRAME. As he roughly

takes the lamb from her, we HOLD on a CLOSEUP of her face -

stunned, blank. She EXITS FRAME...

EXT. BARN - NIGHT

MOVING ANGLE - CLARICE'S POV as she walks towards the open

barn doorway... It looms CLOSER... The rancher is revealed,

a shadowy figure, pinning the lamb on the killing table. His

knife hand sweeps up high, then holds... He turns TO CAMERA,

his face breaking into the light - and it is the face of Dr.

Lecter. He smiles his terrible smile at the young Clarice...

INT. FBI DORM - PAY PHONE IN HALLWAY - NIGHT

MOVING ANGLE - coming in very CLOSE on the adult Clarice's

face - shocked, devastated - as she stands alone by the

dangling receiver...

INT. SHOWER STALL - FBI DORM - NIGHT

CLOSE ON a shower head, as water suddenly blasts out. Clarice

moves INTO SHOT, as she scrubs her face and hair compulsively,

almost desperately, unable to get clean...

INT. CLARICE'S DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Clarice is hunched on her cot, in a bathrobe, her hair wet.

The Buffalo Bill case file, a thick bundle, rests by her

feet. Ardelia hovers anxiously nearby.

Clarice looks up. Her eyes are red-rimmed with exhaustion,

and something close to despair. She reads Ardelia's thought.

Ardelia sits beside her, touches her arm.

Ardelia stares back at her.

SOUND UPCUT - the low throb of a washing machine...

INT. LAUNDRY ROOM - ACADEMY DORM - NIGHT (VERY LATE)

Clarice has spread out the case file across two washing

machines. Ardelia, cross-legged on a dryer, studies another

pile of forms. Nearby is their laundry basket, detergent

box.

INSERT - THE MAP

with newly inked words in Dr. Lecter's precise, elegant hand.

NEW ANGLE - TWO SHOT

as Clarice looks up at Ardelia, puzzled but excited.

They search among the inserts. Clarice finds the graduation

photo.

Clarice moves, on fire, unable to keep still.

She stops, turns. She grabs the photo of Fredrica from

Ardelia, stares at it. She looks up, trembling.

INT. FBI BUILDING - OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR - DAY

Clarice and Crawford are seated in front of Director Burke,

who's at his desk. Another chair is empty, because Krendler

is pacing. All four are nearing their boiling points.

A long silence, as they all struggle to regain composure.

Crawford, who was at the point of striking Krendler, finally

retakes his seat. Burke looks sadly at Crawford and Clarice.

Clarice and Crawford stare back at him, drained. A long and

very painful silence. Not even Krendler looks happy.

EXT. SIDEWALK OUTSIDE FBI BUILDING - DAY

Clarice and Crawford walk out slowly, stand there a moment,

not knowing what to say, not wanting to face each other.

He stares at her sadly. He looks, for the first time,

defeated, old beyond his years.

He stares at her, a long moment. Catherine's life. Clarice's

passion, and future. His loyalty to the Bureau. Call it.

She raises her hand to him. She wants to touch him face, or

his neck, but can't. Finally she takes his money and card.

He watches, frightened for both of them, as she backs away,

smiles, then turns, racing towards the surveillance van.

SOUND UPCUT - the scratchy recording of Fats Waller SINGING,

as we...

INT. MR. GUMB'S CELLAR - DAY (DIM LIGHT)

CLOSE ON the needle of the Victrola, on the spinning record,

as Mr. Gumb's fingers lift away. MUSIC continues in

background.

CLOSE ON the moth cage, as Mr. Gumb's fingers search through

the humus, and find a plump new cocoon, lifting it out. The

door of the cage is left open, and one or two of the adult

moths flutter out.

CLOSE ON a clean towel, beside the sink. The cocoon is gently

placed in readiness alongside four shiny skinning knives.

CLOSE ON a stainless steel Colt Python, with a six-inch

barrel, as the cylinder is spun, and the hammer gets a

practice cock. The metallic CLICK is deep and loud. A note

of alarm has entered Mr. Gumb's voice.

LOW ANGLE on Mr. Gumb, wearing the kimono, as he walks through

his sewing workroom. His back is to us; he is looking

anxiously under the furniture. He stops, straightens.

Genuinely scared.

LOW ANGLE - OVER THE PIT OPENING

Towards Mr. Gumb, as he stops at one of the doorways of the

oubliette chamber. He stares inside; his face in shadows.

From the distant bottom of the pit, we hear Catherine's voice.

Mr. Gumb's fist flies to his mouth, and he sags against the

doorframe. A little groan escaped him; the dog answers with

a series of YIPS.

UPWARD ANGLE, FROM THE PIT BOTTOM

as Mr. Gumb's dark shape leans cautiously over the edge.

REVERSE ANGLE ON CATHERINE

crouched to one side, clutching the dog to her chest. Seeing

Mr. Gumb, the dog squirms frantically, BARKING.

UPWARD ANGLE

on Mr. Gumb, as, with a cry of fury, he whips the Colt from

inside his kimono. The muzzle gleams as he takes aim.

Catherine yanks the dog up, into his line of fire, screaming

at him.

Tucking the dog under one arm, she grabs its muzzle, twisting

the head. The dog WHINES piteously.

UPWARD ANGLE

as Mr. Gumb cries out again - a terrible, inarticulate scream

of rage and anguish. But then he slowly lowers his gun.

REVERSE ANGLE

On Catherine, as she maintains her grip.

MR. GUMB

stares down at her, a long beat, breathing heavily.

And abruptly he vanishes. SOUND of his footsteps, rushing

off.

CATHERINE

begins shaking, hands and arms twitching uncontrollably. She

hugs the little dog tight to her chest, buries her face in

its fur, sobbing...

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - BELVEDERE, OHIO - DAY

HIGH ANGLE as a rented sedan pulls up to the curb, stops.

After a moment Clarice climbs out, a bit stiffly. Double-

checking this address, she glances up from a folded street

map to -

AN OLD, THREE-STORY WOODEN HOUSE

in a row of similarly shabby homes, all backing onto a narrow

river. A path of boards, laid over mud, leads back along

this house towards the brown water. SOUND of hammering from

there.

EXT. BIMMEL HOUSE - BACK YARD - DAY

An awesome huddle of pigeon coops sprawls by the brackish

water. The birds' COOING mixes with the HAMMERING. A tall,

gaunt man in a knit cap is obsessively pounding nails into a

new coop.

CLARICE

approaches him, and the man lowers his hammer. He has red-

rimmed eyes of watery blue. His face is deeply seamed.

He stares back at her, warily.

INT. BIMMEL HOUSE - STAIRCASE - DAY

HIGH ANGLE - LOOKING DOWN as Mr. Bimmel leads Clarice up a

steep flight of steps. The bannister is worn, sags a bit.

Clarice pauses, at the landing, to look at a framed photo:

the familiar graduation portrait. Others pictures show

Fredrica as a young girl, toddler, infant - plump and hopeful

at each age.

INT. FREDRICA'S BEDROOM - DAY

CLARICE'S POV - MOVING SLOWLY as she takes in flowery chintz

curtains... posters of Madonna and Blondie... a twin bed,

with worn, stuffed animals on the pillow... a big sewing

machine in the corner.

CLARICE

turns, absorbing nuances. There is loneliness here, an echo

of desperation under this steeply pitches ceiling. A shrill

MEOW, and she looks down...

BIG TORTOISESHELL CAT

is rubbing against her ankles.

CLARICE

picks up the cat, scratches behind his ears. She glances up.

IN A FULL-LENGTH MIRROR

she and the cat stares back at their own reflection...

CLARICE

sitting at the desk, turns the pages of a high school

yearbook. The cat is curled on her lap...

CLARICE

kneeling by the old Decca record player, flips through LPs

and singles. The cat has wandered off...

CLARICE

pulling a string to light up the closet. She is surprised

and intrigued to see an extensive wardrobe, groaning from

the rod. A shelf above the rod is stacked high with sewing

supplies, in clear plexiboxes. She flips through the hanging

clothes, pulls out one dress, on its hanger, for a closer

look.

THE DRESS

is very big, to fit Fredrica, but beautifully cut. Some of

the seams still look unfinished. She turns it around, sees a

blue tissue dressmaker's pattern still pinned to the back.

FAVORING THE SEWING MACHINE

as Clarice turns, looks towards it. She hangs the dress on

the closet door knob, crosses to sit at the machine. She

takes off its dust cover. She runs one hand over the cool

metal, as a taunting memory forms in her mind.

She turns, looks again at the unfinished dress. Suddenly she

straightens, her attention riveted by something...

CLARICE'S POV

On the printed pattern, down at the lower back of the outlined

dress, are two bold black triangles. We RUSH CLOSER to there

shapes, before jumping back to -

CLARICE

who stares at them, starting to tremble.

IN FLASHBACK

those missing triangles of skin on the dead girl's back, in

the funeral home in West Virginia...

CLOSE ON CLARICE

as she jumps to her feet, with a fierce joy.

INT. BIMMEL PARLOR - DOWNSTAIRS - DAY

Clarice paces, in an exuberant rush, amidst the worn

furniture.

INT. FBI TURBOJET - FLYING - DAY

Crawford sits at a communications console, with Burroughs,

in headphones, by his side. This forward section of the cabin

is crammed with hi-tech equipment, all lit up and WHIRRING.

Through a window we see clouds, part of the jet's wing.

INTERCUTTING

as Clarice reacts; her happiness for Crawford is tinged with

disappointment at being so suddenly out of the hunt.

INSIDE THE JET - MOVING ANGLE

from the rear of the cabin forward, as we slowly PASS the

twelve-man HRT. They're seated in full gear, hardshell armor,

quietly checking and rechecking their bulging cases of weapons -

silencer automatics, shotguns, stun grenades...

INTERCUTTING

Clarice tries hard to swallow her disappointment.

CRAWFORD

switches off, feeling bad for her. On the console near him,

the fax machine starts to CHATTER. He turns, looks.

CLOSE ON

an emerging sheet, as Gumb's face is printed out. We see

just his hair, then the top of his forehead, before we...

EXT. BIMMEL BACK YARD - DAY

Clarice walks slowly across the yard, absorbing all this

news, before suddenly leaping into the air and pumping her

fist in triumph, with a happy yelp. Then she sees -

MR. BIMMEL

staring at her in surprise. He sits by his coops, smoking.

CLARICE

somewhat embarrassed, crosses over to him.

EXT. AN ISOLATED RUNWAY - O'HARE AIRPORT - DAY

The FBI turbojet is parked, its gangway down. Crawford,

Burroughs, and the HRT squad, carrying their bags of weapons,

CLATTER rapidly down the metal steps...

INT. SAVING & LOAN - BELVEDERE - DAY

STACY HUBKA - short, perky, early 20's - sits nervously at

her desk, talking to Clarice, who jots in her notebook. In

the background. beyond them, bank tellers, lines of waiting

customers, MUZAK.

Clarice reacts, disappointed at the ending of this trail.

Suddenly she's fighting tears. Clarice reaches to hug her.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - CALUMET CITY, ILLINOIS - DAY

WIDE ANGLE on what appears to be, at first, a calm, ordinary

neighborhood of working class two- and three-story houses.

But the street is strangely quiet, deserted.

After a few moments, we become aware of movement - armed,

dark-clad figures creeping swiftly and in silence from shrubs

to garage corners, from parked cars to porches, appearing

and then disappearing...

INT. MR. GUMB'S CELLAR - DAY (DIM LIGHT)

CLOSE ON Mr. Gumb, as he settles a big pair of infra-red

night-vision goggles over his eyes. Moths flutter past his

face. His mouth is set in a grim line...

EXT. STREET IN CALUMET CITY - FRONT YARD - DAY

An HRT cop, prone beneath a hedge, is joined by a 2nd HRT

Cop, who throws himself to the grass beside him. They both

take aim with their scoped rifles at -

TELEPHOTO ANGLE (WITH RIFLE CROSSHAIRS)

The front door of a big, nearby, split-level house...

INT. MR. GUMB'S CELLAR - DAY (DIM LIGHT)

CLOSE ON a fuse box, as Mr. Gumb reaches in, flips a switch.

The lights go out. SOUND of a second switch, and the cellar

is bathed in a green glow...

EXT. STREET IN CALUMET CITY - NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - DAY

A little boy, riding his tricycle in his driveway, is suddenly

startled to find himself staring into the grim face of -

A MEMBER OF THE HRT

crouched by his garage, armed to the teeth. As the little

boy starts to cry, the cop pulls him into the shadows,

covering his mouth.

INT. MR. GUMB'S CELLAR - DAY (GREEN LIGHT)

Mr. Gumb, in his kimono and goggles, creeps silently through

his workrooms - knees bent, painted toes places ever so

delicately, the Colt held aloft - as more moths flutter past

him in the eerie light...

EXT. STREET IN CALUMENT CITY - DAY

A florist's van turns the corner, comes slowly down the street

and stops at the curb in front of the split-level. The driver,

in a gray deliveryman's uniform and cap, climbs out of the

cab, walks briskly to the panel door, on the street side of

the van, and slides it open. He leans in, comes out with a

long, thin red-ribboned floral box, starts calmly towards

the house...

INT. MR. GUMB'S CELLAR - DAY (GREEN LIGHT)

MR. GUMB'S POV - MOVING ANGLE on the top of the oubliette, a

glowing green circle in the dark, as it draws closer and

closer... and then Catherine comes INTO VIEW, at the bottom

of the pit. She is crouched, exhausted, staring straight up

at him - but she can't see him in this infra-red darkness.

Precious is curled into her stomach, asleep. The futon is up

to Catherine's waist, but there's a clear shot at her head

and neck.

MR. GUMB

Looking down at her, smiles...

EXT. STREET IN CALUMET CITY - SUSPECT'S HOUSE - DAY

MOVING ANGLE on the "deliveryman," seen from behind, as he

mounts three steps to the split-level's front porch. Tucked

into the small of his back if a 9 mm. automatic.

CRAWFORD AND BURROUGHS

have slipped out of the van, and are crouched behind it now,

with drawn guns, watching tensely as -

THE "DELIVERYMAN"

settles the floral box in the crook of his left arm, reaches

out with his right hand towards the buzzer...

INT. MR. GUMB'S CELLAR - DAY (GREEN LIGHT)

Slowly, savoring the moment, Mr. Gumb aims the big Colt,

which is already cocked, using both hands... He is just about

to squeeze the trigger, when we hear his DOOR BUZZER,

surprisingly loud and close by. He turns, startled, and sees -

DUSTY BLACK METAL BOX

the extension buzzer, mounted high on the wall, which is

making the hideous, grating JANGLE. It finally stops, but

not before waking Precious, who starts frantically BARKING,

off screen, as -

MR. GUMB

raises his gun again, spinning back towards -

HIS POV - THE PIT BOTTOM

where Catherine, hearing but still not seeing him, quickly

yanks the futon over both herself and the dog. Instantly the

two of them become one squirming, indistinguishable mass.

MR. GUMB

bites his lip, his aim wavering, as he can't decide where to

safely place his shot. The maddening BUZZER sounds again,

even more insistently, and he cries out with frustration and

fury. But as the BUZZER continues, he reluctantly uncocks

his gun, looking up angrily towards his front door...

INT. MR. GUMB'S FRONT DOOR - DAY

The door opens, on a chain, and Clarice peers in, smiling.

Mr. Gumb frowns out at Clarice. For the first time ever, we

get a well-lit view of his bland, pale-eyed moon of a face.

EXT. FRONT DOOR OF SUSPECT'S HOUSE - CALUMET CITY

The "deliveryman" yanks a 12 lb. sledgehammer from the floral

box, swings it with all his might against the door knob,

blowing it through as -

MOVING ANGLE

Crawford and Burroughs race towards the door, guns up...

EXT. MR. GUMB'S FRONT DOOR - DAY

Mr. Gumb starts to close the door, only to have Clarice push

back against it, politely but firmly. She holds up her ID.

INT. SUSPECT'S HOUSE - CALUMENT CITY - DAY

A bedroom window disintegrates as a flash grenade is shot

through it, EXPLODING on the floor. An instant later, a black-

clad HRT cop dives through the shattered glass, rolls across

the floor, comes up on one knee swiveling his sawed-off

shotgun...

EXT. MR. GUMB'S FRONT DOOR - DAY

Clarice and Mr. Gumb, still eyeing each other through the

door crack...

INT. SUSPECT'S HOUSE - CALUMET CITY - DAY

MOVING ANGLE as Burroughs moves quickly down a hallway and

enters the living room, where Crawford is standing, with his

gun held down by his side, surrounded by several other cops.

Burroughs shakes his head: Nothing here...

INT. MR. GUMB'S FRONT HALLWAY - DAY

Mr. Gumb glances briefly over his shoulder, towards his

kitchen, then turns back to Clarice with a smile.

ANGLE FAVORING THE COLT PYTHON

which rests on a counter, just inside the open kitchen

doorway. THROUGH this doorway, we watch as Mr. Gumb, at the

end of his front hall, slips the chain. Clarice enters,

closing the door behind her.

EXT. FRONT YARD OF SUSPECT'S HOUSE - CALUMET CITY - DAY

MOVING ANGLE - towards the front door, as frustrated HRT

cops file out of the empty house, rifles slung across their

shoulders.

WE PICK OUT CRAWFORD

walking across the grass towards the van, when all at once

he stops in his tracks, shaken by a sudden flash of intuition.

CAMERA RUSHES VERY CLOSE

on his stricken face...

INT. MR. GUMB'S PARLOR - DAY

Clarice, pulling her notebook from her shoulder bag, glances

around the musty-looking room.

Overstuffed furniture, porcelain figurines. One archway onto

the front hall, another onto a dining alcove, and through

there, the kitchen. Mr. Gumb is crossing to a rolling desk,

raising the top. He bends over, begins poking through cubby

holes. His tone is casual, neutral.

Mr. Gumb stiffens, almost imperceptibly. His back is to her,

as he continues opening drawers, rustling papers.

CLOSE ON MR. GUMB'S BACK

as he continues his rummaging.

Out of the folds of his kimono crawls a Death's-head Moth.

It creeps slowly to the center of his back, raising its wings.

CLARICE

unaware, is still glancing around the room. For several

agonizing moments, we think she won't see the moth - but

then she turns, does see it, and her eyes freeze. A beat of

pure fear. A tremendous struggle to keep her voice calm.

Very carefully, she drops her notebook back into her bag,

lowers the bag to the floor. With her fingertips she brushes

back the edge of her blazer, loosening its drape.

MR. GUMB

turns back towards her cheerfully, holding out a business

card.

CLARICE

keeps her distance. They are about ten feet apart.

MR. GUMB

is about to reply when the moth suddenly flies up from behind

him, flutters past his face. He turns, looking at it. He

looks back at Clarice, his mouth still open.

HER EYES

are unmoving, locked on his.

HIS EYES

stare back at her, widen. And they know each other.

CLARICE

whips her gun out, gripping it in both shaking hands.

MR. GUMB

slowly tilts his head to one side, smiles at her.

CLARICE

tries to force more authority into her voice.

MR. GUMB

turns, then all at once, in two quick steps, he is gone,

disappearing into his dining alcove, then kitchen.

CLARICE

hesitates, just a split second, to shoot him in the back -

and then it's too late.

INT. MR. GUMB'S KITCHEN - DAY

Clarice hurries inside, moving low, swivelling her gun.

HER POV - MOVING

The kitchen is empty. To one side, a door still shuddering

on its hinges...

CLARICE

rushes to this - pauses - then elbows the door aside, aiming

her gun down -

AN EMPTY STAIRWELL

brightly lit, leading to the cellar. Two doors facing the

bottom, both open. No sign of Mr. Gumb.

CLARICE

hates this, hates this, which door, it's a trap, what to do:

she is very scared, but suddenly hears -

The distant SCREAM of Catherine Martin, somewhere down there

in that killing maze.

CLARICE

rushes through the doorway, and down the stairs.

BEHIND HER, ON THE KITCHEN COUNTER there's an empty space;

the Colt Python is gone.

INT. MR. GUMB'S CELLAR - DAY

MOVING ANGLE - WITH CLARICE - hurrying down the steps. More

SCREAMS; they seem to be coming from the left door. Clarice

goes that way, entering a brick-walled passage - pipes over-

head, naked bulbs. The lighting, though dim, is incandescent;

Mr. Gumb has switched off his infra-red system. Clarice comes

to a T-shaped intersection, stops. Another SCREAM, again to

her left, and the BARKING of a dog...

CLARICE

follows her gun around the corner, looking right.

EMPTY PASSAGEWAY

but doors opening off it - he could be lurking behind any of

them. She looks left... sees an opening onto some kind of

chamber. The noises are LOUDER, coming from there.

CLARICE

moves cautiously towards this chamber...

INT. OUBLIETTE CHAMBER - DAY (DIMLY LIT)

Clarice moves in, hugging the wall, gun swivelling...

HER POV - MOVING

the open top of the pit... beyond it, the other two doorways,

opening onto this room - Jesus, he could come through either

one of them, or come up behind her... She moves to the pit,

looks down, very briefly, sees Catherine SCREAMING,

hysterical, and a little white dog BARKING...

CLARICE

kneels, staring up from one door to another, she can't cover

them all, she's totally exposed - and what's a dog doing

there?

Ignoring Catherine, whose shouts turn to sobs, she backs

away, turns, picks one of the other doorways, moves into it

quickly.

INT. NEW PASSAGEWAY - DAY (DIMLY LIT)

CLARICE'S POV - MOVING down this passageway, towards a new

room... pausing at the doorway, straining to hear... no sound

except Catherine's CRYING, not in the background, and

Clarice's own RAPID BREATHING. Then she crouches -

LOWER ANGLE - bursts forward, through the doorframe,

sidestepping...

INT. WORKROOM - DAY (DIMLY LIT)

Clarice weaves back and forth, half-crouched, gun out, back

to the wall. Her face glistens with sweat, as she takes in...

HER POV - MOVING NERVOUSLY

Mr. Gumb's sewing machine... his swivel chair... the old

Victrola... Big moths are crashing into the light bulbs,

overhead; they're everywhere. Suddenly, from just behind

her, a CLICK and a HUM, and -

CLARICE

spins, almost shoots, before seeing -

A SMALL REFRIGERATOR

with its thermostat just switching ON.

CLARICE

gasps for breath, fighting for calm. She turns again, slashing

her free hand at the moths, moving quickly on...

INT. SKINNING ROOM - DAY (DIMLY LIT)

Clarice moves past the mannequins, all of them naked now...

then quickly past the huge Chinese armoire, ready to shoot

into it. Its doors yawn open; it is empty except for several

padded hangers... She moves on, past the big sink, with its

DRIPPING faucet... the counter, with its gleaming knives...

the rows of chemical jars. At the end of this room is

A CLOSED DOOR

Clarice starts to open it, then hesitates. Looking around,

she seizes a wooden chair, wedges it under the door know,

sealing off this section of the cellar. With her back thus

defended, she turns, softly retracing her steps.

INT. WORKROOM - DAY (DIMLY LIT)

Passing again through the workroom, Clarice pauses, seeing a

half-curtained door, to one side, that she had previously

skirted. She crosses to the door, listens and hears no sound

inside, takes a deep breath and reaches for the knob. She

twists it, and, as it turns, shoves hard and follows her gun

inside, all in one quick move...

INT. BATHROOM - DAY (BRIGHTLY LIT)

An old-fashioned bathroom: tiled floor, sink, toilet - and a

big, free-standing tub. An opaque shower curtain, suspended

from an oval ring, hides whatever might be inside.

CLARICE

centers her gun on the curtain, at chest height, and yanks

it aside with her left hand. No one standing there. Something

lower down catches her eye.

She leans in, stares more closely, not understanding, at

first, that she's seeing -

FEMALE HAND AND WRIST

sticking up from the tub, which is filled with hard red-purple

plaster. The hand is dark and shriveled, with pink nail polish

and a dainty wristwatch. As -

CLARICE

is reacting with horror to this sight, the lights go out, to

be replaced, a split-second later, by the eerie green glow

of Mr. Gumb's infra-red system. Clarice cries out, turns

blindly, reaching for the door, can't find it, free hand

clawing desperately into what is, for her, utter darkness.

SOUND of Catherine KEENING again, in the far distance. Clarice

stumbles, goes to her knees, rights herself, finally clutches

the door frame...

INT. MR. GUMB'S WORKROOM - DAY (GREEN LIGHT)

Clarice emerges from the bathroom in a half-crouch, arms

out, both hands on the gun, extended just below the level of

her unseeing eyes. She stops, listens. In her raw-nerved

darkness, every SOUND is unnaturally magnified - the HUM of

the refrigerator... the TRICKLE of water... her own terrified

BREATHING, and Catherine's faraway, echoing SOBS... Moths

smack against her face and arms. She eases forward, then

stops again, listens... She eases forward again, following

her gun, and creeps directly in front of, and then past -

MR. GUMB

who has flattened himself against a wall, arms spread like a

high priest, Colt in one hand. He wears his goggles and

kimono, and under that - draping down over his naked arms,

like some hideous mantle - his terrifying, half-completed

suit of human skins. This is an exquisite moment for him - a

ritual of supreme exaltation. He smiles at Clarice as,

completely unaware, she moves beyond him, exposing her back.

Very slowly and quietly he steps out behind her, taking his

gun in both hands, aiming...

CLOSE ON

the Colt Python as - in SLOW MOTION - his thumbs cock the

hammer, the SOUND registering as a LOUD METALLIC CLICK, and -

CLARICE

spins, still in SLOW MOTION, flame already leaping from her

gun muzzle, as we see -

THE TWO FIGURES

almost at point-black range, guns ROARING hugely, one FLASH

from Mr. Gumb, and one two three four FLASHES from Clarice,

overlapping his, and then, as the ECHOES crash deafeningly -

CLOSE ON CLARICE - LOW ANGLE -

with NORMAL SPEED RESTORED, as the side of her face hits the

floor, and she is gasping, stunned by the noise and flames;

there is blood on her check, and an ugly powder burn, but

she ignores them, twisting to yank her speedloader from her

jacket pocket, locking it blindly onto her gun's cylinder,

reloading, right in front of her face, then rolling onto her

stomach, aiming her gun upward again, blinking her dazzled

eyes, straining to locate him in the darkness... Where is

he, where...? Then, as the ECHOES finally fade, she hears

something else - a tortured, sucking, WHISTLE from perhaps

eight feet away...

MOVING ANGLE - WITH CLARICE

as she crawls forward, on her elbows, following her gun,

until it bumps against Mr. Gumb's shoulder. He is lying on

his back, chest a bloody mess. She slides her muzzle against

his head, hard, but he doesn't move; another shot isn't

needed. He stares upwards, through his goggles, bloody lips

working. He tries to speak, but cannot. One hand reaches

slowly upwards, the fingers twitching, as if to seize

something, overhead... Then a final, ghastly groan, his hand

drops, he is dead. Clarice feels for a pulse at his neck,

making sure. Then, and only then, does she permit herself to

roll over, collapsing onto her back beside him.

OVERHEAD ANGLE

down at the two faces - intimately close together, like lovers

on their pillow. Then, as we PULL SLOWLY AWAY, we see that

her staring eyes, and his dead gaze, are both locked onto -

A DEATH'S-HEAD MOTH -

perched on an infra-red bulb, overhead, its wings pumping

slowly.

SOUND UPCUT - wailing SIRENS, many excited VOICES, as we...

EXT. MR. GUMB'S HOUSE - DUSK

The front porch of the tall Victorian house is bathed in a

glare of TV lights, police and ambulance flashers. Cars and

vans and even a firetruck choke the street; cops, reporters,

EMS workers and curious civilians swarm around the ineffective

barricades. The BUZZ of their voices goes even higher as

CLARICE

dazed, her face bandaged - comes out of the house, walking

protectively beside Catherine, who is wheeled on a gurney.

They are followed out by uniformed cops, then two firemen

with an extension ladder. Catherine, blinking in confusion,

is still clutching the little dog, and refuses to give her

up even as she's trundled into an ambulance. Clarice sways

with exhaustion; everyone seems to be shouting at her at

once, pulling her sleeve. She tries to fight free of them,

desperate for a familiar face.

AN OHIO HIGHWAY PATROL CAR

pulls up, stops, and Crawford climbs out of the back seat.

He makes his way anxiously through the press of bodies,

stopping when he sees Clarice.

THEY LOOK AT ONE ANOTHER

for a long moment, Crawford choked with pride for her, with

sorrow for her ordeal, with love, but unable to find any

words. And then he does.

And then all at once she is sobbing, her knees giving way,

but he is there to catch her, he is hugging her fiercely.

HOLD ON them for a long beat.

EXT. GROUNDS OF THE FBI ACADEMY - WEEKS LATER - DAY

The forty members of Clarice's class, resplendent in their

best dark suits and dresses, rise, cheering themselves, then

turn happily to wave to their audience, as APPLAUSE mounts.

Beyond them, on a gaily tented platform, the Director stands

behind his podium.

CLARICE AND ARDELIA

look at one another solemnly. Ardelia holds up both fists,

in a power shake, and Clarice taps them with her own. She is

radiantly beautiful in a navy dress and pearls, the thin

scar on her cheek almost healed. Ardelia turns, waving towards

the crowd, the Clarice's thoughts are elsewhere. She turns,

searching among the dignitaries on the platform, till she

locates

CRAWFORD

who smiles back at her with quiet pride, and offers a little

salute.

CLARICE

grins - more happy than we've ever seen her - then turns to

wave towards the crowd with the others.

MOVING ANGLE

over the admiring sea of spectators, several hundred of them,

still rising from their folding chairs, APPLAUDING in

celebration of these special young people, this perfect,

sunlit day.

SOUND UPCUT - rock music, laughter - as we...

INT. ACADEMY DORM - REC ROOM - THAT NIGHT

A LOUD party is underway - food, beer, dancing - as the new

grads celebrate ferociously. Ardelia weaves her way through

the crowded room, reaches Clarice, who is flanked by her

special guests - Pilcher and Roden, the two ardent scientists.

Ardelia has to shout at Clarice over the din.

She nods to Pilcher, leaves them. Roden, who is quite happily

drunk, grabs the startled Ardelia around the waist.

Ardelia looks at Pilcher, confused.

INT. DORM HALLWAY - NIGHT

Clarice picks up the dangling pay phone, speaks happily.

She freezes, stunned by the familiar voice. Then she turns,

waving frantically towards

ARDELIA

who is just inside the rec room door, at the end of the hall,

lost in conversation with Pilcher and Roden. Ardelia glances

at her briefly but misunderstands, waves cheerfully back.

CLARICE

turns back, gripping the phone more tightly.

EXT. A CLEAR NIGHT SKY

Very beautiful, glittering with countless stars.

MOVING DOWN

we see a rolling lawn, a curving bay. Boats ride at anchor,

lights shimmering...

DR. LECTER

smiles into his mobile phone. He is stretched out on a

lounger, on a tiled patio, languidly paring an orange with a

penknife. His appearance is quite altered - a beard, glasses,

lighter hair. He's has some cosmetic surgery, as well.

INT. DORM HALLWAY - NIGHT

As Clarice reacts, the fill weight of his words sinking in.

But only a DIAL TONE comes from the phone. She is still

staring at her receiver, in shock, as we -

EXT. THE MOONLIT PATIO

Dr. Lecter sighs, sets his phone down, then rises. Popping

an orange section into his mouth, he turns towards the

brightly lit house. Stepping delicately over the sprawled

body of a uniformed security guard, he walks in through open

french doors.

INT. A BOOKLINED STUDY

In a swivel chair, amidst the wreckage of his papers and

books, is the writhing figure of Dr. Frederick Chilton. The

extreme intricacy of his bindings recalls Dr. Lecter's own

former restraints. His screams are muffled by the tape over

his mouth; he stares at Dr. Lecter like a rabbit trapped in

headlights.

DR. LECTER

Considers him for a genial moment, then raises the little

pen-knife. His eyes are twinkling.

