COLUMBIA PICTURES LOGO

BLACK SCREEN

On a black screen, the words (without capital letters in front of

the words) :

and then :

BATHROOM - INTERIOR

We don't know if it's day or night. We see a little girl, aged

around eight, putting lipstick on her lips. She is wearing

earrings and a ring on the middle finger of her right hand. She

moves forward and we see another girl about the same age. The

first girl puts lipstick on the lips of the second girl. Both girl

are smiling.

More credits, still without capital letters.

The camera moves back and we get a better view of the second girl.

The two girls appear to be twins. The first girl takes a powder

puff and puts powder on the second girl's cheeks.

The two girls look at themselves in the mirror. The camera gives

the impression to be located behind the mirror.

The first girl gives a kiss on the cheek of the second girl.

FADE OUT TO BLACK SCREEN

The title of the film appears on the black screen.

The camera moves and we see, appearing on the right-hand side of

the screen :

BUILDING - EXTERIOR NIGHT

This building is actually Allison's building, but we don't know it

yet.

Credits resume on the screen.

The camera keeps on moving and we see several lit windows. The

building itself is a nice building with carvings on the walls.

The camera moves backward, giving us a full view of the building.

As the camera comes back forward, we hear two voices speaking, one

male, one female. They are the voices of Allison Allie Jones and

her fiance Sam Rawson.

Allison laughs

Fade to :

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Sam and Allison are lying on the bed, partly dressed. Sam is

holding Allison next to him. They are both about thirty years old.

Allison has short red hair, and Sam has brown wavy hair.

Behind the front of the bed we see the wrought iron of the

balcony. The light is very dim in the room, lit only by the street

lights and a couple of candles. We hear Allison finishing her last

voice over sentence.

End of credits.

She moves a bit away from him, and takes a piece of grapes in a

plate lying on the floor.

Allison goes back into Sam's arms.

They laugh.

They start kissing very tenderly.

Fade to two seconds of black screen. And then we see Sam and

Allison asleep in the bed. They are naked but covered with the

sheet.

The phone rings. Allison wakes up and picks up the phone handset.

She bends down to take the telephone set.

She gives the receiver to Sam. Still half-asleep, Sam takes the

phone.

Sam puts the receiver to his ear. We hear vaguely Lisa's voice,

but not precisely enough to understand the words.

He puts the handset back on the telephone set, which Allison had

put on the bed.

The phone rings again. Allison moves up to pick up the phone.

The phone keeps on ringing. Then the answering machine starts with

Hi, it's Allison Jones... but the rest of the message is covered

by Sam and Allison's conversation.

We hear the beep at the end of Allison's message.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison is walking naked in the hall.

Allison is standing up in the dark, not moving. We hear Sam's

voice, partly from the bedroom, and partly from the answering

machine, which gives the voice a sort of echo effect.

Close-up on Allison's face in the dark. She looks very shocked by

what she hears.

Allison shuts the machine off.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up on Sam's face. He picks up the phone and puts the handset

to his ear. We hear Lisa's voice saying : Hello, Sam

ALLISON'S APPARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison grabs a night-robe and presses it on her naked body.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Sam is seated on the bed. He puts the phone back on the set.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up on the ancient-looking ventilation system in the bedroom.

The air vent is protected by a very decorative wrought iron grill,

as can be found in old New-York buildings.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - GRAHAM'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up on the same air vent in Graham's apartment. We can hear

the conversation going on in Allison's bedroom, with a slight echo

effect in the sound, which makes some words incomprehensible, but

still well enough to get the general idea of the conversation.

Slowly the camera moves from the air vent to Graham's bed.

Graham Knox is about thirty years old, and we shall learn later

that he is gay. He is lying in his bed, perhaps naked, but we see

only his chest, the rest of his body being covered by the sheets.

He was apparently awaken by the voices in the ventilation system

and is half-raised on his elbow and listening to the conversation.

Graham is listening with a worried look on his face.

Fade out to two second of black screen, during which we keep on

hearing the conversation through the ventilation system, but

without understanding the words. And then :

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison rings the bell of Graham's apartment. It says 1203 on the

door.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

A corridor with a lot of books on shelves going all the way up to

the ceiling. Graham walks along the corridor, zipping his pants.

He is bare-chested.

Graham opens the door. Allison is just wearing a night-robe, and

her face is full of tears.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR NIGHT

Graham takes Allison by the hand and brings her inside his

apartment.

Graham closes the door behind Allison.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - SPARE BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

A nice room with pictures on the wall. Allison is sleeping in a

large bed. Through the shutter-less window, we can see the other

buildings.

Graham, dressed in a black T-shirt and kaki short pants, enters

the room and sits on the bed. He takes Allison's leg through the

bedcover. Allison stands up with a start.

Allison jumps from the bed in a hurry.

Graham, still seated on the bed, watches her leave the room.

NEW YORK - A BUSY STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Allison walks quite rapidly on the sidewalk. She comes to a shop

and looks through the window. She combs her hair with her hand.

A RESTAURANT - INTERIOR DAY

A nice restaurant in New-York. Paintings on the walls. Soft music.

A waitress is talking on the phone. Allison enters the restaurant

and crosses the room to a table, where a man, who was sitting

alone, stands up when she comes to him. The man is Mitchell

Myerson, Allison's appointment.

They shake hands.

They sit down. The man takes his glass.

A little later. They have finished their meal. Allison has put her

laptop computer on the table and is typing on the keyboard. On the

screen of the computer, we see models of woman's dresses changing

color and appearance each time Allison presses a key.

She gives him a printed paper.

He takes a pen out of his pocket and start writing on the document

Allison gave him. Then he hands back the document to her. She

reads it and seems surprised.

He points to what he wrote on the document Allison is still

holding.

The waiter puts the bill in a small tray on the table.

Allison takes the bill from the tray, and tears the tab off the

bill.

They shake hands.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

The front door opens and Allison gets in and closes the door. She

drops her keys and her handbag on a shelf near the door. She goes

to the answering machine, and presses a key.

The machine beeps.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison starts tearing the sheets off the bed. Her movements are

very nervous. And, eventually, she drops on the sheet-less

mattress and starts crying.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LAUNDRY ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

We hear the first words of Graham's sentence on the previous image

of Allison crying on her bed.

Allison and Graham are working on their respective laundry on a

table. We see washing machines working in the background.

COMPUTER SCREEN

An Apple Computer Screen (certainly Mac OS 7 or even Mac OS 6,

since the film was made in 1991/1992). The window is titled

Comlink Fax TM. On the window itself we can read :

When we first see the computer screen, only SWF SEEKS FEMALE TO

SH is written. We hear the clicks of the computer keys as the

rest of the ad is written. The computer screen fades into a

newspaper clip after PROFESSIONAL PREF is written.

NEWSPAPER CLIP

We see a newspaper clip, where Allison's ad has been highlighted

with a felt-pen red rectangle. It says :

Around this ad are other ads, all about apartment renting or

sharing.

ALLISON'S OFFICE - INTERIOR DAY

The previous voice over sentence ends on a close-up of the folded

newspaper with a red felt-pen lying on the newspaper.

The camera moves up from the desk, on which the newspaper is

lying, to Allison's face, who is speaking over the telephone.

Around her, we see other desks with people working.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

A young butch woman, wearing a leather jacket and a black and

white bandana around her head, bangs her fist on the walls of the

kitchen. She enters the kitchen, where Allison is sitting at a

table. Behind Allison, a nice white stove. The butch girl is

carrying a motorcycle helmet in her left hand. In the credits, the

butch girl is called Mannish Applicant

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - SPARE BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

A young very pretty woman, dressed in a short brown dress, moves

around the room and then looks at Allison with a seducing eye.

Allison, who is holding some papers in her hand, looks at the

departing applicant with an amused eye.

Later in the same room. Another applicant is walking around the

room. She's wearing large glasses, and never stops talking. While

she is walking, we hear a camera clicking and we see a camera

flashlight across the room.

She goes out the room in the hall. Allison is shaking her head

behind her back.

While the applicant is going into another room, Allison is writing

something on a pad she is holding in her left hand. Underneath the

pad is a Polaroid camera, certainly the one we saw the flashlight

coming from.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

A nice clear room, with a comfortable vintage-looking couch.

A young woman is standing in the middle of the room, wearing a

white blouse and brown large pants, looking very discreet... too

perfect !

Allison takes her picture with her Polaroid camera.

Later. Close-up on the pile of application forms. On the top of

the pile, the one concerning the woman we just saw, with her

picture stapled in the left top corner of the form.

Allison is sitting on the couch, looking through the files. She

has the file of the last woman in her hand. She stands up and

walks to the kitchen.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Allison picks up the phone and dials the number of the last

applicant, whose form is still in her hand. Then she sees Sam's

picture on the fridge door. She puts the form on the top of the

fridge.

Close-up of Sam's picture.

Allison takes the picture off the fridge door and starts dialing

again.

Allison puts the phone back on its hook on the wall. She sits down

on the floor crying, and still holding Sam's picture. She crumples

the picture into a small tight ball.

We see a pair of foot underneath a long light-grey dress walking

in the hall. Allison is still crying.

The woman knocks on the kitchen wall. Allison stands up with a

start.

We get a full view of the unknown visitor. It's Hedra Carlson. She

is wearing a black hat on her long light brown hair. She is

carrying a large bag held by a strap across her chest. She looks

very sweet and nice.

She looks at Allison's face, where we still can see she's been

crying.

Hedra starts taking her arm, and then moves away inside the

kitchen.

Hedra tries to get some water at the sink, but just gets a strange

noise.

She comes to the sink, and takes a wrench lying by the sink.

She squeezes the water faucet with the wrench. Hedra puts her bag

on the floor. Allison keeps on trying to open the faucet with her

wrench, but the faucet breaks off and showers both girls.

Hedra bends down to shut the main water tap under the sink.

The girls are both all wet.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close-up on Hedra's dress and Allison's jacket drying on hangers

near the open window.

Hedra gives some papers to Allison, seated on the sofa. Hedra is

wearing a red T-shirt and black pants, certainly borrowed from

Allison.

Allison looks at the papers.

While Allison is reading the documents Hedra gave her, Hedra feels

the clothes hanging by the window.

She picks them up, gets them off the hangers, and gives her jacket

to Allison

Sam's crumpled picture falls on the floor from a fold in the

jacket. Hedra picks it up

She sits down on the sofa next to Allison.

She looks very moved by what Allison just said. She takes

Allison's hand.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR DAY

Allison and Hedra are walking along a corridor in the basement.

Allison is wearing a black sleeveless T-shirt and beige pants.

Hedra is wearing a red dress with white small dots. Allison is

carrying two suitcases and Hedra a very large box. They all must

be empty, the way the girls are carrying them.

They've come to a row of stocking rooms, all protected by

partition and doors covered with chicken wire. They look like

cages, and that's exactly what the tenants call them. The two

girls drop their parcels on the floor. Allison takes a key out of

her pocket to open the padlock of her own private cage.

Hedra crosses the corridor. On the opposite side from the row of

cages, a door that says : Incinerator Room and stuck on it, a

sign that says Use prohibited by law.

By this door, a pile of junks, probably left by a tenant. Hedra

picks up an old rusty metal lamp.

A few moments later. Allison has resumed her tour of the basement,

walking along the corridors. Hedra is carrying the metal lamp she

found. They pass by the Laundry Room, where we've seen Allison

earlier chatting with Graham. Inside, a lady is working with her

laundry on a table.

Another corridor.

Hedra looks at a key she is holding.

They've come to the elevator. An old machinery, enclosed in a

chicken wire cage, is working with a loud noise. Allison presses

the switch of the elevator

The elevator door slides into the wall, and the two girls get in

the cabin. Allison wants to close the inner door of the cabin, but

it does not want to slide back into closed position.

She takes a screwdriver hanging on a chain in the cabin. With it,

she works on the door lock, and succeeds in moving it.

While she rolls the inner telescopic door shut, she discovers that

another tenant has come into the cabin behind their back. He

doesn't look very friendly, with his bow-tie and his small

mustache. He is holding a newspaper.

When the inner door is completely shut, the outer door slides

automatically into shut position.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - ELEVATOR CABIN - INTERIOR DAY

The elevator is moving up.

The tenant presses a button on the switchboard by the door.

The tenant presses another button. Hedra plays with her keys and

smiles to Allison.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - SPARE BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison and Hedra move a table out of the room. The table is

covered with various objets, and has apparently been used as a

desk. When they try to squeeze the table through the door, they

upset everything that is on the table down on the floor. They

scream and laugh.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Allison turns the water faucet on, and it seems to be working

perfectly.

Hedra is kneeling by the sink, looking at the cupboard underneath

the sink. She stands up with an oval metal dish.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - SPARE BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra is kneeling on the floor, cleaning the dish she has found in

the kitchen. It shines so well that she can look at herself in it

as if it was a mirror.

Close up on the dish. Beside Hedra's face, we see Allison's face

coming to join her.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra, just wearing her underwear, is talking on the phone.

Sitting on the floor, Allison is painting the old lamp Hedra has

found in the basement. An electric fan is working next to her.

Hedra puts the dress she is holding on the receiver, and whispers.

Allison shakes her head No.

NEW YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Nice weather. Busy street, with shops and people. Allison and

Hedra are walking, eating ice cream cones. Allison is very

elegantly dressed. Hedra is more simply dressed and is still

wearing her old black hat.

NEW YORK - A CLOTHES SHOP - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra comes out of a dressing room, wearing a very elegant red

jacket.

She gives her a red dress on a hanger, which she was holding out

of our view.

Hedra takes the dress and looks at it.

NEW YORK - A SHOE SHOP - INTERIOR DAY

We see only Allison's feet and legs. She is sitting on a chair

trying on some high-heel shoes. We see Hedra's feet coming toward

her. She is also wearing high-heel shoes.

Allison takes off the shoes she was trying on.

We now see both girls' faces. Hedra is taking off the shoes she

was wearing.

She gives her shoes to Allison.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - EXTERIOR NIGHT

A full view of Allison's building in the New-York night. Actually,

it's not full night yet, because there is still some dark blue

light in the sky.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The room is all dark, lit only by the street light coming from the

window. Allison walks into the room with a lampshade in her hand.

She puts the lampshade on the lamp by the bed. Then she switches

the lamp on. Apparently it is the lamp Hedra found in the

basement, cleaned and painted.

Allison looks at the books on the night-table.

She then moves across the room, puts her handbag on the bed, and

takes a medicine bottle from a small table. She puts it back and

takes a perfume bottle. She takes the plug off and sniffs the

bottle. With the plug, she puts a bit of perfume on her neck. She

puts the plug back on the bottle and the bottle back on the table.

She then takes a pair of earring from the table. She holds them on

her ears and looks at the effect in a mirror.

In the mirror, we see Hedra entering the room behind Allison.

Allison turns quickly around. Hedra is wearing a light night-robe

and her hair is wet

Lying on the bed, there are a shoebox with a rubber band around

it, a key on a keyring, and a piece of paper. Apparently, Allison

has not noticed them. Quickly, Hedra throw the bath-towel, she is

holding, on those items, for Allison not to notice them.

Hedra laughs. Allison puts the earrings, she was still holding,

back on the table.

She takes her night-robe off. Allison seems embarrassed to see her

naked. She turns her eyes away from her.

Hedra puts her nightdress on.

She sits on her bed.

She turns around sees the new lampshade.

She stands up to have a better look at the lampshade.

She walks toward the little table.

Hedra picks up the earrings from the table, and gives them to

Allison

She puts the earrings on Allison's ears.

Allison looks at herself in the mirror.

The phone rings.

She goes out of the room. While going out, she bumps into Hedra.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison picks up the phone.

It's Sam. We only hear a few words of what he says.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra takes the shoebox from her bed, goes to a closet inserted in

the wall of the bedroom, and puts the shoebox on the top shelf of

the closet.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison is still on the phone.

We see Hedra's face peeking through the door of her bedroom.

She puts the phone down. Hedra is still peeking behind her bedroom

door.

Allison remains two seconds motionless with her hand on the

telephone, and then smiles and shakes her head Yes.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Through the open door of the bathroom, we see Hedra kneeling by

the bathtub, and apparently washing something in the bathtub.

The phone rings. Hedra rushes out of the bathroom. She is wearing

a orange T-shirt, a very large red boxer-short and white slippers.

A beep.

While listening to the machine, Hedra picks up a box on the

telephone table, takes a sweet out of the box, eats it, and puts

the box back on the table

A click, meaning the end of the call. Hedra presses a button on

the answering machine, to erase Sam's message.

We hear some yapping coming from the bathroom. Hedra turns her

head toward the bathroom.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close-up shot of Hedra, kneeling by the bathtub and holding a big

puppy in her arms. She is rinsing it with mugs of water taken from

the bath.

While rinsing the puppy, she hugs and kisses it.

She hears the front door opening and turns her head around. She

says Shhh ! to the puppy, and whispers some other

incomprehensible words to it, then puts it back in the bathtub.

Close-up of a paper lying near the sink over Hedra's key-ring. The

paper is a bill from a shop called Pet Express, in New-York. It

was paid in cash, and the date is 8/16. It reads :

Hedra's hand crumples the bill and puts it in the waste-basket

underneath the other items already in the basket.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Allison enters the apartment. She is wearing a silver-colored

raincoat.

She closes the front door. Through the open bathroom door, we see

Hedra going from the waste-basket to the bathtub. She takes a

towel and wraps it around the puppy, still in the tub.

Allison puts her keys on the shelf by the door, puts her handbag

on the floor, and presses a button on the answering machine. A

beep and then :

Behind Allison, we see Hedra coming out the bathroom carrying the

puppy wrapped in the towel.

Allison turns around, sees Hedra with the puppy and stops in her

tracks. She doesn't seem very happy, almost angry in fact.

Hedra sits down on the floor.

She gives a kiss to the puppy. She then looks up at Allison's

face, which doesn't seem very friendly.

Allison walks away taking off her raincoat.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

We hear the puppy yapping. Hedra is sitting on her bed in the

dark. She stands up and peeks through the ajar opening of the

door.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up at Hedra's peeking through the ajar opening of the door.

The puppy is still yapping.

The door of Allison's bedroom opens and Allison comes out. She is

wearing a light pink nightdress.

She slowly opens the kitchen door, bends down and picks up the

puppy.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Reverse angle shot of Allison picking up the puppy. She then goes

away, presumably to her bedroom, with the puppy in her arms.

Through the open kitchen door, we see, across the corridor,

Hedra's bedroom door closing itself.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra, wearing pajama-looking pants and a sleeveless loose shirt,

comes in the room, carrying a tray. There is a mug on the tray, in

which Hedra is pouring honey from a plastic bottle. She comes to a

table, where Allison is working on two computers. The puppy is

sitting on Allison's laps.

Hedra stirs the mug with a teaspoon, and puts the tray on the

table.

Close-up on the screens of the computers. They show women dresses

designs.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra and Allison are lying on Allison's bed, with the puppy

between them. Hedra is wearing a pink T-shirt and red short pants.

The TV is on and we hear its sound faintly, without really

understanding the words.

Hedra is playing with a portable battery-powered fan. She puts it

down to play with the puppy.

She tries to move the puppy, who wants to move the other way.

Allison takes her Polaroid camera to take a shot of the three of

them.

Allison takes the snapshot.

Later in the night. There is a black and white movie on the TV.

The camera moves away from the TV, and we see Allison and Hedra

asleep on Allison's bed, with the puppy between them. Hedra moves

slightly in her sleep.

NEW-YORK - A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Allison and Graham are walking on the sidewalk of the street,

Graham pushing his bicycle. He has a canvas bag strapped over his

shoulder.

Graham's first sentence is actually heard in voice over the

previous sequence.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - MAIN LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

They enter the lobby. We can see that Allison is carrying some

shopping bags. A lady is going out with a dog on a leash.

They enter the elevator. Two ladies are coming out. Allison has to

use the screwdriver to close the inner door of the cabin.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - ELEVATOR CABIN - INTERIOR DAY

The cabin is moving up.

He takes a keyring out of his pocket.

She laughs.

The elevator stops.

The outer door opens. Allison bends down to pick up her shopping

bags. She opens the inner door and takes the keys Graham is giving

her.

Allison closes the inner door.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE ALLISON'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

Reverse angle shot of Allison closing the elevator inner door. The

outer door closes automatically. Allison walks along the hall

toward her apartment.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

The front door opens. Allison bends down to pick up her shopping

bags and enters the apartment. The front door closes behind her.

She drops her keys on the little shelf by the door. She sees Hedra

in the doorway of the living room. Her hair is in a bun.

Hedra looks down at her belt. She seems embarrassed by something.

Sam enters from the living room with the puppy in his arms.

Sam puts the puppy on the floor.

Hedra goes out of the hall into the living room.

Hedra comes back in the hall.

She looks back and forth to Allison and Sam, and gets just a No

head-shake as an answer from Allison.

Hedra goes out of the apartment and closes the door behind her.

Allison takes her shopping bags and goes into the kitchen.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Allison puts her bags down on a table.

She goes into his arms. He hugs her. She start crying.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY

Close-up on Allison's kitchen window. We see Allison and Sam

hugging each other.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE ALLISON'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

Hedra is standing by the window, with a knee on the heater. She

seems very pensive.

An old lady comes out of the elevator, and looks at Hedra.

Hedra turns her head toward the lady. She picks up her bag, which

was sitting on the heater beside her, and moves away from the

window. She goes to the elevator and presses the call button.

A STREET IN NEW-YORK - EXTERIOR DAY

We are across the street from the Rizzoli bookshop, the shop where

Hedra is working.

RIZZOLI BOOKSHOP - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra, dressed exactly like she was in the previous sequence, is

dialing a number on the telephone on the wall.

A lady comes to her.

The lady moves away from Hedra.

We hear Allison's answering machine talking in the telephone.

A beep.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Close up shot on the answering machine. Then the camera moves away

from the telephone table and, in the living room, we see Sam and

Allison, standing in a close embrace and kissing each other. Some

pieces of clothing are already on the floor, and we see Allison's

foot stroking the back of Sam's leg.

RIZZOLI BOOKSHOP - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra puts the phone back on its hook. She seems very nervous.

HOTEL ATHERTON - MAIN ENTRANCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The Atherton Hotel is evidently a quite luxurious hotel.

Sam and Allison are walking on the sidewalk towards us and the

entrance of the hotel.

They enter the hotel.

HOTEL ATHERTON - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Sam and Allison cross the lobby, hand in hand.

An old hotel clerk looks at them from behind his counter.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up on the TV set showing a movie featuring James Stewart.

Reverse angle shot on Hedra sitting in an armchair, with her bare

feet on another armchair. She is eating ice-cream from a large

plastic pot. On the floor beside her, the puppy is playing with a

tennis shoes. Hedra looks down at it and kicks it away with one of

her feet.

The puppy goes away yapping. Hedra has a mean look on her face.

Hedra keeps on eating her ice-cream, looking absently at the TV,

with the same mean look on her face.

HOTEL ATHERTON - A BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Sam is sitting on a chair, naked. Allison, also naked, is sitting

on his laps, facing him, and with her legs spread on either side

of the chair. She is moving up an down. They evidently are having

an intercourse.

Close-up on Allison's hand behind Sam's back. She is wearing her

engagement ring.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra is lying naked in the bath. The bath is almost full, but hot

water is still pouring from the tap. Hedra, her eyes closed, is

humming some music.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full view of the building.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - MAIN ENTRANCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

A Yellow Cab is parked in front of the entrance. On the sidewalk,

Sam and Allison are hugging and kissing.

Allison moves away from Sam and into the building. Sam goes back

into the cab.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

The front door opens. Allison comes in and closes the door behind

her. She locks the door and puts the security chain on. She puts

her keys on the shelf by the door, and looks through her mail. She

stops near Hedra's bedroom closed door, because she notices there

is still some light in the room. She then goes to the telephone

table to look at the answering machine.

Still looking through her mail, she enters her bedroom.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Without switching the lights on, Allison puts her mail on a chest

of drawers.

Allison gasps at that somber voice in the dark. Hedra switches the

bed-light on. She is sitting on Allison's bed, with her legs

covered by the sheet, and the puppy on her laps. She is wearing

her night-dress, with a pink sweater on her shoulders.

She goes to the bed where Hedra is stroking absently the puppy.

She kneels down at the bedside.

Hedra looks down at Allison hand stroking the puppy.

Allison stands up.

Hedra sighs, and moves the sheet away to get out of the bed.

Hedra walks away from the bed. She gives a last look at Allison's

ring.

She walks to the door.

Hedra is standing in the doorway and points to the mirror.

She comes back into the bedroom. She forces Allison to look at

both of them in the mirror.

She puts her head in her hand.

FONTANA FASHIONS OFFICE - MAIN HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Fontana Fashions is Mitchell Myerson's company.

Close-up on some feminine hands typing on an Apple computer

keyboard. We see various windows, showing models of female dress,

opening and closing on the screen.

We see the whole room. It is a very big room with large white

columns supporting the ceiling, and large bay windows.

Girls are working in the background. Some are trying a new dress

on a model girl. Mitchell's assistant is typing on the computer,

with Allison standing near her. Her name is Barbara, and she is a

woman with brown hair and a sleek bob haircut. Mitchell is

standing a couple of feet away.

Mitchell walks to the desk next to Barbara's one, where he starts

flipping the cards of a Rolodex.

He takes a card from the Rolodex.

He puts his hand on Allison's shoulder and walks away. Allison

smiles and then looks at what Barbara is doing.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Low angle shot of Allison's building.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

In the dark, we see the shadow of Allison moving up and down on

top of Sam. She is slightly moaning.

Fade out.

Later. Sam and Allison are lying on the bed, naked and half-

covered by the sheet. Allison's head is resting on Sam's chest.

She starts moving out of the bed.

She stands up and puts a light night-gown on. She walks out of the

room.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison is filling a tooth glass from the tap of the sink.

Suddenly we hear voices. Allison seems surprised. We don't

understand the words, but we recognize Sam's voice, and then

Hedra's light laugh.

Allison slowly walks out, carrying her glass.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra is standing at the door of Allison's bedroom. She is holding

a glass containing an orange liquid. She is wearing a night gown

and she is holding a book in her other hand.

She laughs.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The lights are switched on in the bedroom.

Sam is lying in the bed, still half-covered by the sheet. He is

drinking from a can.

Reverse angle shot of Hedra drinking from her glass. The night-

gown is slightly open and we can see that she is just wearing

panties underneath.

Allison walks behind Hedra. She is holding her tooth glass, and

with her other hand, she keeps her night gown well closed. Hedra

turns her head towards her.

Allison shows her own glass in her hand without answering.

Hedra looks at Sam and then at Allison. She seems slightly

embarrassed.

She kisses Allison's cheek.

She walks away toward her bedroom.

Sam turns himself around in the bed to lie on his back.

Before closing the door, Allison switches the lights off.

In a corner of the room, the puppy is wide awake and is sitting in

his basket.

Allison lies down on the bed. She hasn't taken her night gown off.

Close up shot on Allison's face lying on her back on the bed. She

seems worried.

Reverse angle shot of the fan spinning on the ceiling.

Fade-out.

Later. Allison is asleep, lying on her side. She is still wearing

her night-gown. Her hand is moving on the sheet, and apparently

does not find what it was looking for, because Allison suddenly

sits up on the bed.

We see Sam sleeping and lying on his back, half-covered by the

sheet. Allison looks at him and sighs.

We hear some strange noises. Allison gets up and off the bed.

We see her naked feet walking past the puppy's basket. Allison

opens the door. The puppy leaves his basket and follows her.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison crosses the hall, followed by the puppy. She stops, bends

down and picks it up.

She walks slowly to Hedra's door, which is partly opened. We hear

Hedra moaning.

In the mirror on the closet door, we see Hedra lying on her

stomach on her bed, half-covered by the sheet. She is

masturbating. She turns around to lie on her back.

Close up shot on Allison's face looking at Hedra. She seems half-

surprised, half-fascinated by what she sees.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra is lying on her back in her bed. Her sheet is down to her

waist, showing her breasts. She still has one hand between her

legs.

The puppy yaps.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up of Allison's face, looking slightly frightened. She puts

the puppy on the floor.

Reverse angle shot on the mirror in Hedra's bedroom. We see Hedra

sitting up on her bed.

Allison runs through the hall towards her bedroom. The puppy

follows her, but she shuts the door before it can gets in the

room.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison jumps into her bed and lies down. We can hear the puppy

yapping behind the door.

Allison hears the door opening. She puts her head on the pillow,

closes her eyes and pretends she is asleep.

Hedra walks slowly across the room towards the bed. She is wearing

her night gown.

We see Allison's shoulder moving slowly up and down, just as she

was really asleep.

Hedra remains a few seconds looking at Allison, then starts

walking back towards the door.

Close-up shot on Allison's face. Her eyes are closed, but, when

she hears the door closing, she opens them again.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Sam is fixing a broken piece of wrought iron on the balustrade on

the balcony. He is screwing a sleeve clamp to fix the broken piece

on the main body of the balustrade.

Hedra is coming out of the kitchen with a frying pan. She is just

wearing her night gown. She is stirring some scrambled eggs in the

pan.

She eats a piece of crispy bacon out of the pan.

Sam climbs out of the balcony.

A wider shot shows Hedra back in the kitchen, cooking something on

the stove. Sam slides the window down, and then walks across the

room and into the kitchen. The puppy gets out of its basket and

follows him.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Allison gets out of her bedroom, fully dressed and ready to go to

work. She hears voices coming out of the kitchen.

Allison opens the kitchen door.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Sam and Hedra are eating breakfast seated on either side of the

small kitchen table. The puppy is eating something off the floor.

He looks up at Allison entering the room

She walks to the sink, and picks up an orange. Sam gives her a

kiss on the cheek. She turns her head and doesn't respond to the

kiss.

Hedra comes toward them with a plate in her hand. She gives the

plate to Allison.

Allison doesn't take the plate and shows her the orange. She seems

quite upset.

She gets out of the kitchen. Sam turns his head towards Hedra and

then follows Allison.

Hedra walks a couple of steps towards the open door and listen to

the conversation going on in the living room

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra is standing in the doorway leading to the kitchen, with the

plate still in her hand.

Reverse angle shot on the legs of Allison and Sam. The puppy is

playing between them, putting its nose on Allison's leg.

Reverse angle shot on Hedra bending down and slapping her thigh.

She takes a piece of bacon out of the plate and shows it to the

puppy.

Reverse angle shot on Allison and Sam.

The puppy doesn't respond at all to Hedra's call and food.

Reverse angle shot on Hedra standing up and finishing her plate.

Then reverse angle shot again on Allison and Sam.

Sam gives her a very tender kiss, which she gives him back.

Reverse angle shot on Hedra looking very angry. She goes back into

the kitchen and puts her plate down. She then walks into the

living room, looking very casual.

She gives a light tap on Sam's back when she walks behind him. She

takes a food plate off Allison's desk, and starts walking away

towards the kitchen with the plate.

She enters the kitchen to put the plate down. She then comes back

into the living room.

We can see, by her expression, that Hedra is not very happy about

what she just heard, but she keeps a smiling face.

Sam and Allison walks out of the room.

Hedra wrinkles the front of her night gown with her nervous hands.

She walks slowly toward the hall.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Sam and Allison are going out of the apartment.

Sam closes the door behind them. The puppy remains behind the

door, whining.

Hedra sits down on the floor, leaning on the wall near the door of

the living room.

She taps her hand on the floor.

The puppy doesn't move away from the front door, and keeps on

yapping and crying.

She seems very nervous. The dog keeps on yapping at the door.

She taps her hand on the floor in a more and more nervous way.

The dog doesn't move from the door, and keeps on yapping.

AN EMPTY APARTMENT - INTERIOR DAY

A large room in a typical old New-York apartment. Large windows

going almost to the ceiling. Through the windows we see roofs with

water tanks on them. The room is empty, save for a ladder and a

few tools.

The real estate agent is standing with some papers in his hand.

Sam and Allison are coming towards him from the other side of the

room.

They walk away toward the exit of the apartment. The agent remains

standing on the same spot.

NEW YORK - A STREET NEAR ALLISON'S PLACE - EXTERIOR DAY

A busy street in New York, with small shops with goods for sale on

counters on the sidewalk.

Sam and Allison are walking down the street.

They turn the corner of the street, and we hear a scream. Sam and

Allison both lift their heads.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY

Low angle shot taken from ground level showing a woman running on

her balcony. She bends over the balustrade to look down.

Reverse angle shot showing what the woman sees from her balcony.

Buddy, the puppy dog, is lying motionless on the pavement, with a

group of passers-by around it. One of them points his finger to

the upper stories of the building.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE ALLISON'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

Allison and Sam are running toward Allison's apartment door.

Allison opens it.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Allison rushes into the apartment, followed by Sam.

She runs past the kitchen door. We see Hedra sitting at the

kitchen table. She stands up when she sees Allison.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison stops in front of the window. The window is open and the

broken piece of wrought iron, on which Sam was working earlier in

the morning, is missing, leaving a gap in the balustrade, a gap

wide enough for a puppy dog to go through.

Sam climbs on the balcony.

Close up on the gap in the balustrade.

Hedra seems genuinely surprised. She still has the earphones of

her Walkman around her neck.

Sam is still on the balcony, looking at the balustrade.

She starts crying.

Allison rushes out the room.

Sam runs out of the room after Allison.

Hedra walks to the balcony and slowly slides the window down.

Fade out.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison is lying in her bed with the sheet up to her neck. Sam

bends over her and gives her a light tender kiss on the lips. Then

he stands up. We hear him leaving the room and closing the door.

Allison turns her head with her eyes still closes.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra is sitting on the floor in the dark, leaning on the wall.

She is sorting things and putting them in a box in front of her.

Hearing the musical noise of a plastic toy, we understand she is

putting the puppy's stuff away.

Sam comes out of Allison's room and, walking in the hall in front

of the kitchen open door, stops and looks at her.

We can hear repressed tears in her voice. Then she starts crying

for real.

Sam kneels down.

Sam takes her in his arms where she goes on crying. He slowly

stands up, still holding her in his arms. He leads her to her

room.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Outside Hedra's room. Sam is in the doorway. Hedra moves slightly

away from him and then hugs him even stronger.

Gently, he pushes her away from him. They almost kiss on the

mouth, but Sam takes her arms off his neck and goes out of her

room, where she stays. He closes the door behind him, and she

holds his hand on the doorknob. Then she moves her hand away and

the door closes. We hear her sobbing behind the closed door.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison is asleep on her bed, dressed with a short black slip and

black panty hoses.

The phone rings. Allison wakes up slowly, and, with her eyes still

closed, feels around on the night table to find the phone. She

eventually picks it up.

She raises her head.

She looks at the clock.

She picks up the pill bottle on the night table and looks at it.

She puts the phone down.

She gets up and goes into the dressing room. She starts looking

for a dress. She rapidly goes out.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Through the open door of the bathroom, we see Allison looking for

a dress.

She then goes out of the bathroom, crosses the hall and open a

closet, in which more clothes are hanging. She picks up three

hangers with clothes on them.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

She enters her bedroom, carrying the hangers. She throws one of

them on the bed, and goes, with the two other ones, back into the

dressing room. She picks up a hanger with a light brown jacket,

and compares it with the one on the hanger she brought from the

closet in the hall. They are exactly the same. Then she picks up a

red dress, and compares it with the one she brought from the

closet in the hall. They're both the same. She looks a bit worried

by what she just discovered.

FONTANA FASHIONS OFFICE - MAIN HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Close-up on an Apple Computer screen, showing dress models. The

file is called Fontana Fashions.

We see Mitchell, very smartly dressed, with a white Roman-collar

shirt and a black jacket. He is holding a glass of Champagne.

A large section of the main hall of Fontana Fashions Office has

been transformed into a reception room. Dresses are hanging on

racks. On a round table with a white tablecloth, many half-empty

glasses of Champagne, two silver bucket with Champagne bottles in

them, plates of petit fours, and a lot of flowers.

Mitchell and Allison are both standing in front of a large TV

screen, set on a hight stand, and showing the Fontana Fashions

computer files.

Allison, wearing a very smart black short sleeveless dress, puts a

video cassette back in its box.

Mitchell goes to the table, puts his glass down, and fill another

glass with Champagne.

He gives the glass to Allison, who doesn't take it.

Mitchell kneels down on the floor.

He puts the glass on the top of his head

He gives the glass to Allison, who takes it.

She walks to a table with an Apple computer on it, puts her glass

on the table, and sits down. Mitchell comes behind her, drinking

his glass, which he then puts on the table. He bends down behind

Allison, who starts typing on the keyboard.

Close-up on the computer screen. The Fontana Fashions file is

on. We see the outline of a model, then a small window appears on

the model. It says Are you sure you want to quit ? and below two

choices, Cancel or OK. Allison chooses OK. Fontana

Fashions file disappears, replaced by another window that says

Search by vendor, and in the bottom of the window, Enter Vendor

Name:, with an empty box underneath.

Back to Allison typing. Mitchell's head is just behind hers.

He bends over Allison to type on the keyboard, encircling her with

his right arm.

Allison seems a bit embarrassed by this close physical contact.

Close-up on the screen, where a new window titled Acc. Payable -

Summary. In the window, a data chart that reads as follows :

COMPANY: Concept Software CONTACT: Jones, Allison tel:212-555-9814

Back to Allison and Mitchell looking at the screen

Allison turns to him, and seems not to like his strange smile.

He walks away from her and goes to the Champagne table.

Using a napkin, he is drying a bottle of Champagne he just got out

of its bucket.

He throws the napkin on the floor, and comes back toward Allison

with the bottle of Champagne. He puts the bottom of the bottle on

Allison's bare shoulders. She shivers.

He puts his other hand on her shoulder. Then he puts the bottle on

the table, and starts massaging her shoulders.

He grabs her from behind and squeezes her in his arms.

He kisses her neck.

He keeps on kissing her neck, and puts his hand inside her dress

to reach her breast. Allison seems to be on the verge of tears.

She has a strange smile on her lips.

He stands up.

While she slowly turns around on her swivel seat, he starts

unzipping his pants, and lets them fall on his ankles, showing his

white trunks.

Allison, still   seated, is now facing him, her face at the level of

his crotch. He   takes her head to guide it toward his private

parts. Allison   looks up at him and then, with both fists and all

her might, she   hits him very hard between his legs. He screams.

She jumps from her seat and runs out of the room.

He falls on the floor, holding his private parts with both hands.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up on Allison, still in her black dress, and holding a glass

of wine.

We see Hedra's hand giving some pills to Allison. She then

replaces the glass of wine by a glass of water.

We see Hedra standing near the mantlepiece. She is wearing an

orange T-shirt and a red skirt.

She kneels on the floor in front of Allison.

Hedra laughs.

She opens Allison's purse and takes her address-book.

She walks to the telephone table in the hall, flipping the pages

of the address-book.

Since the bedroom door is wide open, we can see Hedra in the hall.

She picks up the phone and starts dialing.

She gets up from the sofa on which she was sitting.

Allison has come to the telephone table.

Hedra shushes Allison with her finger.

She puts the phone down, and starts laughing.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY

High-angle shot of the building, taken from the roof of the

building across the street. We see Allison and Hedra coming out of

the building. From this height, they look like a couple of ants !

A STREET OUTSIDE JOHN DELLAR'S HAIR SALON - EXTERIOR DAY

Allison and Hedra are walking on the sidewalk. They stop in front

of the shop of John Dellar's Hair Salon.

She puts her hand on Allison's neck.

She takes Allison by the hand and drags her to the door of the

shop.

Allison tries to resist Hedra.

They enter the shop.

JOHN DELLAR HAIR SALON - INTERIOR DAY

Allison is seated in front of a large mirror. An attendant is

taking the protection garment off her shoulders.

She smiles. She seems happy and puts her hands through her hair.

Suddenly she stops, and the smile disappears from her mouth. She

looks up in the mirror at someone descending the stairs from the

upper level of the shop. She makes the swivel chair turn around to

have a better look at the staircase.

Close-up on Hedra going down the stair. Her hairdo is so much like

Allison's one that she almost looks like a twin sister of Allison.

Back to Allison's thunderstruck face.

A STREET - EXTERIOR DAY

Allison and Hedra are walking in a busy street. If Hedra was not a

bit shorter than Allison, one could think they were twins. Allison

seems angry.

They stop at a newspaper stand.

The attendant picks up a magazine from a rack and Allison picks up

some other magazines at random.

Allison is paying the attendant.

Hedra seems to be worried by Allison's very cold reaction to her

surprise. She seems even a bit sad.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison is looking at the dresses hanging in the closet.

Allison walks out of her room into the hall.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Through the open door of the bathroom, we see Hedra turing the

water faucet on in the shower cubicle, then taking her belt off.

She closes the door of the bathroom.

Allison stealthily runs into Hedra's bedroom.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison enters the room, and looks around. She walks to the closet

and starts looking through Hedra's clothes. Suddenly, she notices

the shoebox on the shelf above the clothes.

Close up on the shoebox and then on Allison's hand picking it up.

Allison opens the shoebox. She sits down on the bed, and starts

looking through the content of the box. She takes several papers

out of the box and looks more closely at them.

Close-up on the documents Allison is looking through. Several

photographs, and then a black and white photograph of two twin

girls with a puppy between them. The twin girls are the one we saw

at the very beginning of the film.

Allison looks very attentively at the picture. She puts the

documents she is holding into the lid of the box and starts

looking at the rest of the documents.

Close-up on an envelope that reads :

Allison seems surprised by the name on the envelope.

She looks through all the other envelopes. On another envelope, a

computer-generated label has been glued on the original Ellen

Besch address. It reads :

She puts the envelopes back into the box, and picks up other

documents. They are newspapers clippings.

Close-up on the clipping Allison is holding. There is a picture of

two young twin girls, and above, a title that reads :

And underneath :

She puts the clippings back into the box and picks up another

envelope.

Close-up on the envelope, which reads :

We see Allison's hand looking inside the already opened envelope

and taking a key-ring out.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close-up on Hedra's hand turning the water faucet off.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison is reading the letter which was with the keys.

Close-up shot on the letter. It was written on a Hotel Atherton

stationery. The close-up is too close for us to be able to read

all the words, but we still can read :

Allison reads the letter very attentively. Suddenly she hears some

noise coming from the bathroom and turns her head towards the

noise.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

The bathroom door is opening slowly

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison puts the letter back in the envelope, the envelope back

into the box. She then puts everything back into the box, closes

the box and puts it back on the shelf.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Allison comes out of her bedroom, picks up her handbag and starts

unlocking the safety chains and locks on the front door, while,

through the open bathroom door, we see Hedra, wearing a long white

shirt, taking care of her hair in front of the mirror.

Allison opens the door and goes out.

Allison closes the door behind her.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close up on the mirror. We see Hedra still fixing her hair

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison rings the doorbell of Graham's apartment. Getting no

answer she knocks on the door. Getting no answer again, she walks

away from the door.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - MAIN STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison is going down the stairs. She opens a service door, and,

hidden by this door, watches Hedra waiting for the elevator.

Allison rushes back to the staircase.

High-angle shot of the whole staircase, with Allison running down.

NEW YORK - THE STREET OUTSIDE ALLISON'S BUILDING - EXTERIOR NIGHT

This is the street outside Allison's building, probably seen from

the entrance of the building, or very near it.

Hedra, coming from behind the camera, crosses the sidewalk,

towards the street.

She raises her hand to stop a taxi cab.

Allison, also coming from behind the camera, hides behind the

corner of a wall to watch Hedra.

A yellow cab stops and Hedra climbs in it.

As soon as the cab is gone, Allison rushes from her hiding spot

and runs to the street, with her hand raised.

YELLOW CAB - INTERIOR NIGHT

We are inside Allison's cab. In front of us, through the

windshield, we see the back of Hedra's cab driving in the heavy

traffic of New York.

Reverse angle shot on Allison seated in the back of the cab.

Allison bends slightly to speak to the driver.

NEW-YORK - A QUIET STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Compared to Allison's neighborhood, this is a very quiet district.

Almost no one in the streets. No shops.

Hedra's cab has just stopped in front of a grim building with a

fire escape. Hedra walks out just as Allison's cab stops at the

corner of the street. Allison walks out of her cab. Both cabs

drive away, and Allison starts following Hedra from a distance.

Medium shot of Allison following Hedra.

Hedra reaches her destination, another grim building, and goes

down a stairway, starting from the street and going down to the

basement of the building. A strong man with a ponytail and glasses

is guarding the entrance. But he lets Allison go down the steps.

Other people follow Allison.

BASEMENT NIGHT CLUB - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison goes down the last steps to the basement, which actually

is a sort of night club. We hear some religious-sounding music

with drum rhythms.

The place is quite dark, but flashes of light enable us to see

that all the customers are very smartly dressed, men wearing

elegant suits and neckties, and women wearing elegant dresses.

They seem to be watching some sort of a show.

A young woman, wearing a black sleeveless dress and long black

leather gloves, notices Allison and comes towards her.

Allison walks away, followed by the young woman. She passes near a

cage, inside which we see a middle-aged man. The man gets his hand

through the bars of the cage, and strokes Allison's cheek. Allison

jumps, rubs her cheek and moves away from the cage.

Behind Allison's back, we see the young woman, who was following

her, coming to the cage and speaking to the man inside.

From where she is, Allison can see what's going on at the bar,

without actually be seen by the people seated on high stools along

the bar.

Reverse angle shot on the bar itself, and more precisely, on

Hedra, seated on a stool, with a man, seated on another stool,

stroking her cheek.

The bartender, a bald bare-chested young man, turns toward Hedra.

Hearing her name, Allison starts and looks at the bartender

Hedra turns towards the bartender.

A flash of light enable us to have a better view of Hedra's

companion, the man she called Jim. He looks a bit like Sam.

Hedra smiles.

Allison is staring at the couple

Jim laughs.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

We hear the first sentence said by Graham in voice over the

previous sequence.

Graham is opening his front door to Allie, who enters the

apartment, but stays near the open front door.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra opens the front door and enters the apartment.

She closes the door and locks it.

She drops her keys on the shelf near the door and crosses the

hall.

The camera moves into the living room.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Through the open door to the kitchen, we see Hedra crossing the

kitchen to go into the living room.

She seems slightly drunk and doesn't control her movements very

well. Before entering the living room, she takes a blue bag in the

kitchen (maybe something to eat) and drops it on a table. But,

being a bit nervous, she actually drops the bag on a small bowl

containing various objects, and the bowl falls on the floor and

breaks into pieces.

Hedra looks at the fallen bowl and bends down to pick up the

debris.

The bowl has fallen near the air vent. It is exactly the same as

the one which, earlier in the film, had enabled Graham to hear Sam

and Allison's conversation.

Hedra kneels down to gather the pieces of the broken bowl. We hear

a faint voice. Hedra raises her head, trying to find out where

this faint voice comes from.

First, we don't understand the words the faint voice is saying,

then it becomes clearer. It's Allison's voice speaking to Graham

in his apartment.

Hedra understands that the voice is coming from the air vent, and

she moves closer to it.

Hedra moves a brass knob on the air vent, to open it wider and to

have a better understanding of the words.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Graham and Allison are sitting on a couch. Graham has a glass in

his hand, and Allison a cup.

Graham gets up from the couch.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra is still kneeling on the floor, with her ear close to the

air vent, listening to the conversation between Allison and

Graham.

We hear steps. Hedra looks up at the ceiling, and then slowly

stands up.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Graham is pouring something we don't see in a glass.

Allison gets up from the couch, with her cup in her hand.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up on the front door. The door slowly opens and a hand

covered by a black glove comes through the opening of the door. We

hear the conversation going on between Graham and Allison.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Back to Graham and Allison.

Allison laughs.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

The room is very dark and only lit by the street lights through

the window. A shadow moving in the dark. We hear the conversation

coming from the living room.

The shadow moves away from the dark corner where she was hiding :

it is Hedra, who starts walking cautiously in the room.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison and Graham are both standing in the middle of the room.

She walks to a table to pick up her purse.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Sensing that Allison is going to leave, Hedra walks back into a

dark corner to hide herself.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Graham is carrying his cat in his arms.

Allison picks up her purse and they start walking towards the

front door.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

They walk along the corridor, Graham still with his cat in his

arms.

They've stopped walking.

He does not answer but he makes a face and then laughs, which is a

good answer to Allison's question. She puts her head down in her

hand, feeling a bit embarrassed.

She starts walking again towards the front door. Graham follows

her.

Allison opens the door.

Allison goes out and Graham closes the door behind her, and then

locks it.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - MAIN STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT

High angle shot of the staircase. Allison is walking down the

stairs.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

The apartment is all dark. The front door opens and Allison walks

in, and closes the door behind her.

She puts her keys on the shelf by the door.

She walks around the hall, looking in all the rooms.

We hear a little noise, and we see Allison turning her head.

Close up on a mirror-covered door opening slowly. At that very

moment, we, the spectators, do think we are still in Allison's

apartment. But actually, we are in :

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

The door opens slowly with a light squeaking noise. We hear

Graham's voice talking on the telephone in the next room.

The camera moves away from the door, then looks into the living-

room, where Graham is sitting in the dark, only lit by the street

lights coming through the window, and talking in the telephone.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up on the air-vent. We see Allison's hands sticking pieces

of large adhesive tape on the air-vent. We hear the faint voice of

Graham still talking on the telephone, but we don't understand the

words.

Larger shot of Allison sitting on her bed and sticking the pieces

of tape on the air-vent.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Graham is still talking on the phone.

We hear some noise in the background, and Graham turns his head

towards the noise.

Quick reverse angle shot on the corridor seen from the living-room

door. It looks empty and quiet.

Back to Graham on the phone.

He puts the telephone down on his set on the table, turns his head

again in the direction where he heard the strange noise, and gets

up. He thinks it may be the cat and calls her with a soft gentle

voice.

He gets out of the room into the corridor.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Graham makes little noises with his lips to attract the cat. He

suddenly hears the wooden floor squeak behind him. He turns his

head.

We see Hedra coming out of a room and walking towards the front

door. Since we see only the back of her head, she can easily be

mistaken for Allison.

She doesn't turn her head and just wave her hand.

She has almost reached the front door, when Graham realizes that

something is queer about the girl's attitude.

She turns around. She seems very panicky suddenly. She starts

fumbling with the locks of the door, and drops the safety bar on

the floor.

Hedra is kneeling down, fumbling with the fallen safety bar.

Graham is walking slowly towards her.

Hedra suddenly stands up with the safety bar held firmly in both

hands. She strikes Graham first in the stomach, then, as he

doubles up with pain, she strikes him again on the shoulder.

Graham falls on the floor, and she gives him a final blow on the

head, leaving him unconscious on the floor.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison is standing by the desk, talking on the telephone and

holding the telephone set with her other hand. We hear a beep.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

The front door opens, and Hedra comes in.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison, still on the phone, turns her head towards the front

hall.

She puts the phone down.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra closes the front door and walks slowly across the hall

Hedra enters the bathroom and closes the door behind her.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison is standing near the window, apparently not knowing

exactly what to do next.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra is sitting naked under the shower. She is playing with a

jewel ring and humming softly some musical tune.

We hear several knocks on the door. Hedra doesn't react at all.

Hedra answers without moving her head.

Apparently, Hedra has not spoken loud enough above the noise of

the shower, because Allison knocks again on the door.

She has spoken with a very soft voice, and apparently Allison

hasn't heard her, because she opens the door, and walks slowly

towards the shower

Hedra turns slowly her head towards Allison and smiles.

She turns the shower off, and stands up. She picks up a towel.

Allison turns her head, apparently feeling embarrassed to see her

naked.

Close up on the basin, full of water, and where Hedra's clothes

are soaking. The water is red with what looks like blood.

Hedra, wrapped in a large bath towel, has noticed that Allison has

been looking at the blood in the basin.

She walks slowly across the bathroom. When she passes near the

basin, she notices that a small part of her clothes are not inside

the basin, and she moves it back inside.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Still wrapped into the bath towel, Hedra walks slowly out of the

bathroom, followed by Allison.

Hedra has reached her room's door, and she turns around.

Hedra walks into her room followed by Allison.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra has not switched the light on in the room. The room is just

lit by the street light coming through the window.

Hedra sits on the bed. She is wearing a night shirt and a large

sweater over the night shirt. (NOTE - This could be considered as

a continuity goof. Apparently, Hedra has been able to change from

the bath towel to the night shirt and sweater in less than a

second !)

Hedra cracks her knuckles.

Suddenly, she has a very menacing face. Allison, still standing

up, looks down at her with a very hard stare. Hedra, seeing that

stare, calms down and laughs.

The phone rings, but Allison, who is still looking down at Hedra

with her very hard stare, doesn't move. Hedra turns her head in

the direction of the phone.

Hedra now has a very sweet look on her face. She gets up and out

of the room.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra picks up the phone from the little table in the hall.

Allison enters the room from Hedra's bedroom.

We hear a male voice over the phone. We quickly understand it's

Hedra's father.

Hedra puts the telephone down. She doesn't move for a couple of

seconds, then looks at Allison, trying to look more casual than

she actually is. She has a little nervous laugh.

The phone rings again. Hedra picks up the receiver and slams it on

the table. Then she presses on a button on the telephone set to

cut off the communication.

Allison walks to the telephone table.

Hedra hugs Allison.

She moves away from Allison, looking falsely casual.

Allison walks away to her room.

Hedra picks up the telephone set from the little table, without

putting the receiver back on its hook. We hear several short beeps

coming from the telephone. With one nervous movement, Hedra tears

the cord off the wall socket. Then she walks slowly into her room.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

A little later. Hedra is lying in her bed, writing something in a

notebook. She is humming a song. Her other hand is resting on the

telephone set on the bed.

The phone rings. Hedra picks it up immediately, not to let it ring

more than once.

HOTEL ATHERTON - A BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Sam is lying on the bed, still dressed in his suit and necktie. He

is talking on the telephone.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Hedra gives a quick look at the clock on the night table.

HOTEL ATHERTON - A BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - HEDRA'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

She slowly puts the phone down and plays a little with it.

HOTEL ATHERTON - MAIN ENTRANCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Close up on a pair of female legs and feet with stiletto heels

shoes.

The heels clicks on the sidewalk, and we see the figure of a woman

walking away from us, and towards the entrance of the hotel. No

one else is in the streets at this time of the night. The woman is

wearing a grey raincoat.

The woman enters the hotel.

HOTEL ATHERTON - A BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Sam is sleeping, covered by the sheet up to his waist, and

apparently naked underneath.

The door opens slowly. The woman in the grey raincoat enters the

room. We have already guessed she is Hedra.

She closes the door and puts the key on the night table.

She remains motionless for a couple of seconds, looking at Sam,

then she slowly starts to take the raincoat off. She is completely

naked under the raincoat.

She slides under the sheet of the bed, close to Sam. Sam moans in

his sleep. He turns slowly towards Hedra, who starts kissing him

on the chest.

Hedra goes down Sam's body, still kissing him. When she gets

between his legs, even if the room is very dark, we understand she

is performing oral sex on him.

Sam moans with pleasure.

Suddenly, Sam realizes that something may be wrong. He gives an

anxious look at Hedra.

Hedra raises her head from Sam's private parts.

She resumes what she was doing. Sam would like to push her away,

but he is so close to his climax that he can't do it.

He has his orgasm, with Hedra not moving away from between his

legs.

She only raises her head when she is sure it is over. She gives

him a light kiss on the pubis and smiles.

Then she moves up in the bed, her head finally resting near Sam's

one. Sam is breathing very hard. Hedra strokes him on the chest,

and kisses his cheek.

Then she gets up and off the bed, and puts her raincoat back on.

She picks up a half-full glass on a table and drinks from it, what

looks like beer. Then she eats something from a plate on the same

table.

Sam breathes normally again and moves slowly on the bed. He lies

on his side, facing away from Hedra.

With the glass still in her hand, she walks to the bed

She puts the glass on the night table, and kneels on the bed. She

start stroking Sam's shoulder.

While talking, she keeps on stroking his face. Sam doesn't react

to her caress.

He switches on the light on the night-table. He then turn around

to face her.

He jumps out of the bed, and starts putting his clothes on. Hedra

remains seated on the bed, drinking her glass.

She puts her glass on the night table, and gathers her shoes to

put them back on her feet.

She shakes her head no.

After his pants, Sam has put his shirt back on.

Hedra gets up from the bed where she was still sitting.

She sits back on the bed.

He comes near the bed and bends down to pick up something. Hedra

rushes on him.

He pushes her away from him.

She sits back on the bed.

He walks to the night-table and picks up the telephone. She throws

one of her shoes towards him. The shoe hits the wall just above

his head.

He rushes towards her, ready to hit her.

But, before he reaches her, she strikes him very hard in the face

with her other shoe. The stiletto heel of the shoe enters his left

eye, and, behind the eye, certainly enters his skull and his

brain, because, instantly after the blow, Sam falls heavily on his

back on the floor, where he remains motionless and unconscious.

With her bare foot, Hedra touches his cheek.

HOTEL ATHERTON - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up on Hedra's feet walking on the rug. She's wearing both of

her stiletto heels shoes.

Hedra goes down some steps and reaches the hotel reception desk.

The same hotel clerk, that we saw earlier in the film, when Sam

and Allison came together into the hotel, is talking on the phone.

He is talking in a soft voice, so we can't understand exactly what

he's saying.

But, when Hedra walks in front of his desk, he puts his hand on

the receiver microphone, and says, in a louder voice :

Without turning her head, Hedra waves her hand.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close up on the clock on the night table : it says 06:22.

Allison slowly wakes up to some noise in the apartment.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Allison comes out of her bedroom, wearing a long sleeveless pink

night shirt. She seems to be naked underneath.

She walks around the room, looking in every room which door is

open.

She eventually finds her in the living room, vigorously cleaning

the mantlepiece. Hedra is wearing a long plain gray dress and red

rubber gloves. Allison remains at the door of the room.

Hedra looks up at Allison, but doesn't stop her cleaning.

Hedra looks around the room.

She goes out of the room into the hall.

She resumes her vigorous cleaning in the hall, starting with the

small shelf by the front door.

Allison has come near Hedra.

Hedra has stacked her stuff near the front door. She picks them

up : a red suitcase, a cardboard box and a large paper bag. She

has taken her rubber gloves off and keeps them in one hand.

Allison walks to the door.

She opens the door.

Hedra walks out of the apartment. Allison closes the door, but

remains behind it, lost in her thoughts.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra is rapidly walking along a corridor, carrying her stuff.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - INCINERATOR ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close up on the open red suitcase. Inside, all the clothes that

makes Hedra look like Allison.

Hedra takes the clothes out of the suitcase and puts them into the

open incinerator. Then she sprays some lighter fluid over the

clothes.

Close up on Hedra's hands striking a match on the side of a

matchbox. She throws the match into the incinerator, and long

flames immediately start on the clothes.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Allison is fixing breakfast. She has cut some fruits into small

pieces and she puts them in the bowl of the blender. We hear some

music from the TV in the background.

Allison walks to a cupboard on the wall to pick up a spices jar.

The door leading to the living room is open, and the TV is on.

Allison gives a quick look at the TV, on her way back from the

cupboard to the kitchen working bench.

Allison puts a bit of spices from the jar into the blender, closes

the lid and starts the blender.

The rest of the words of the TV reporter are lost, covered by the

noise from the blender. But the voice of a female reporter, being

slightly louder, can be heard over the blender noise

Allison shuts the blender off, and walks to the open door to watch

TV.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close up on the TV screen, showing the reporter, standing, with

her microphone in hand, near the entrance of the Atherton Hotel.

Reverse angle shot of Allison, standing in the doorway and peeling

a banana.

Reverse angle shot on the TV.

Reverse angle shot on Allison.

Allison suddenly realizes that the room number is Sam's one. She

rushes to the telephone set on the wall near the refrigerator.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Allison dials very nervously a number on the phone.

She doesn't even wait for the end of the sentence, and drops the

phone, letting the receiver hang on its cord. She rushes out of

the kitchen.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - INCINERATOR ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra is leaving the room, carrying her stuff. Behind her, the

incinerator door is wide open, and we see a bright fire inside.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR DAY

Across the corridor from the incinerator room, Hedra reaches

Allison's private cage. She drops her stuff and opens the

padlock.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison is bending over the toilet bowl and vomiting.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR DAY

In the cage, Hedra takes a boot out of the cardboard box. Then

she takes a sock out of the boot, and delicately, takes a black

hand gun out of the boot. She puts the gun in the paper back,

above some clothes.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison is still vomiting in the toilet bowl. She slowly raises

her head from the toilet bowl, trying to catch her breath.

She sees Hedra's pair of stiletto heel shoes. Underneath one of

the heels, there are some traces of blood on the tile floor of the

bathroom.

Kneeling on the floor, Allison takes the shoe to look at it more

closely. Then she screams and throws it away, knocking the other

shoe down on the floor.

She is still kneeling on the floor, crying, when the door opens

and Hedra enters the room. Allison raises her head to look at

Hedra.

Hedra sees the stiletto heel shoe behind the toilet bowl, where it

has been knocked away.

Allison remains kneeling on the floor, just supporting herself on

her arms.

Hedra walks towards Allison to help her stand up.

Allison stands up.

Hedra walks to the basin, but wraps her hand in the bottom of her

dress before touching the water tap.

Allison walks out of the room.

Allison stops at the door, and turns around toward Hedra.

Close-up on the mirror above the basin, showing Hedra and Allison

standing next to each other.

Allison takes the tooth glass and drinks. Hedra strokes her

shoulder.

Allison puts the glass down and shakes her head Yes. Hedra

strokes the back of her head.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Allison walks out of the bathroom, followed by Hedra.

Allison has reached the front door, and she starts unlocking the

door.

Hedra looks at Allison thin sleeveless night shirt and smiles.

Hedra looks at Allison with a very strange expression on her face.

She can see the tears on Allison's face.

She walks away to her room. Hedra puts her hand on her face.

ALLISON'S APARTMENT - ALLISON'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison enters her room coming from the hall.

Allison grabs a pair of pants and puts them on.

Hedra enters slowly in the room, carrying the large paper bag

where she has put the gun.

Allison takes her night shirt off. She is now naked from the waist

up. But she grabs a sweater and puts it on.

While talking, Hedra slowly slides her hand into the paper bag,

takes a pair of black gloves out of the bag and puts the bag down

on the floor.

Slowly, Hedra puts the black gloves on her hands.

Allison turns around to face Hedra.

She picks up the bag and walks to a chest of drawers. She puts the

bag on the floor and opens the top drawer.

Hedra is taking white pantie and bra from the drawer

She falls down, sitting on the floor and crying.

She slams the drawer shut, and opens another one.

She claps her hands.

Allison doesn't move and remains seated on the floor.

Hedra laughs.

She points her gloved finger to Allison, and then looks at herself

in the mirror.

She turns around, and walks away from the mirror towards Allison.

Hedra, who is now very upset, knocks everything, that was on top

of the chest of drawer, with a long sweeping movement, down on the

floor.

She bends down and takes the gun out of the paper bag.

She snaps a cartridge into the chamber of the gun.

She walks to Allison and kneels on the floor besides her, pointing

the gun to her head

She slaps her face.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE ALLISON'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

Hedra leads Allison along the hall. She is carrying her paper bag

in one hand and the gun in the other hand. She still has her

gloves on. Allison is carrying a small plastic case.

They reach the elevator and Allison is ready to press the call

button, but Hedra moves her away towards the staircase.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - MAIN STAIRCASE - INTERIOR DAY

They climb the stairs. Hedra is pushing Allison with her gun.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

They reach Graham's front door. Allison rings the bell, waits a

couple of seconds and turns around.

Hedra takes some keys out of her bag and gives them to Allison

with the gloved hand that is still holding the gun.

Allison takes the keys and unlocks the door.

Hedra seems very nervous. While Allison is unlocking the door, she

keeps looking around her and pressing Allison's back with her gun.

Allison opens the door, and enters the apartment, followed by

Hedra.

Hedra closes the door behind them.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY

Low angle shot of the building, taken from street level.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra comes out of the bathroom, with a dark towel on her head.

The cat crosses the corridor and enters the bathroom.

Hedra puts her towel down : her hair, instead of being red like

Allison's, is now dark brown.

She smiles.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra enters the living-room.

She walks in front of the window, and makes a couple of dance

steps.

Reverse angle shot on Allison, tied up in an armchair with duct

tape. Each one of Allison's arms is tied on each armrest of the

armchair. Her legs are tied on the legs of the armchair, and her

chest is tied on the back of the armchair. There is also a piece

of tape across her face to keep her mouth shut.

Hedra laughs and turns the TV set on. The screen shows a

documentary about African fauna. Hedra turns the volume slightly

up.

She puts the remote control on the armrest of the armchair, within

easy reach of Allison's right hand. Allison doesn't move at all.

She walks away from the armchair, takes the towel off her neck and

down on the back of a chair. She takes her purse.

She gets out of the room.

Allison moves for the first time : she turns her head around, then

looks back at the TV screen.

Reverse angle shot. On the TV screen, close up of a lion yawning.

Reverse angle shot. Allison looks at the remote control on the

armrest.

Close up on the remote control. Almost at the top of the remote

control, we see the two volume control buttons : up and down. And

under those buttons, we see the two channel control buttons.

Close up on Allison's face looking at the remote control.

Close up on Allison's right hand moving the remote control on the

armrest, to get the volume control buttons within reach of her

forefinger. She presses the up button.

On the TV screen, we see the volume bar graph going up on the

picture of a crocodile. And the volume of the music goes up too.

Allison looks at the remote control again.

Close up on Allison's forefinger pressing one of the channel

control buttons.

On the screen, we see a different channel : a comic movie. A

couple is having dinner in a restaurant and the waiter pours the

water bucket on the man.

Another channel. A woman is sleeping. A telephone rings.

Reverse angle shot on Allison pressing the channel control

buttons. We hear a male voice for a couple of second, then Allison

changes the channel again.

The TV screen seen from behind Allison's hand dialing on the

remote control. There is a cartoon on the screen. Then another

channel showing the concert of a rock music band.

Close up on Allison's face looking at the screen and then at the

remote control in her hand.

Reverse angle shot on the TV set. The volume bar graph is going up

again until it reaches the end of the graph. The volume of the

sound of the rock music is very high.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

We hear the rock music very loudly in the empty hall.

The front door of apartment 1206 opens slowly. A man with glasses

on his nose peeks into the hall. He seems very annoyed by the

noise.

BANK OFFICE - HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Close up on the hand of Hedra writing Ellen Besch on the back of

a cheque on the cashier's counter. In front of her, we see the

hands of the cashier girl on the other side of the glass

partition.

Larger view of the bank office hall. Hedra is standing in front of

the cashier's desk. We see the cashier girl through the partition

glass. Behind Hedra, a man is waiting for his turn, reading a

newspaper.

Through the opening at the bottom of the partition, she gives her

cheque to the girl.

Closer shot. Now we are on the cashier's side of the partition,

and we see Hedra's face through the glass.

Reverse angle shot. We are now on Hedra's side of the partition,

and we see the cashier girl through the glass : she is a blonde

girl about the same age as Hedra. She puts her finger on her own

hair.

Reverse angle shot. Cashier's side.

Reverse angle shot. Hedra's side. The cashier girl smiles.

A male bank clerk, sitting at a desk behind the cashier girl,

stands up and walks to the partition glass.

Reverse angle shot. Cashier's side. Hedra seems worried by what

the man is saying.

Hedra runs away from the counter.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

On the TV set, the rock band is still playing with the sound

volume very loud.

Reverse angle shot on Allison, trying to free herself from the

armchair where she is tied up. But the duct tape is strong enough

and her jerky movements don't bring any result.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

Outside Graham's apartment. We hear the loud rock music very

clearly. The building manager is standing by the door, with the

neighbor from apartment 1206 behind him. The neighbor has his

glasses hanging around his neck on a string.

The building manager rings the bell. Then he bangs on the door

with his fist.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison turns her head towards the front door and try to speak

through the tape stuck on her mouth.

She starts moving again to free herself from the armchair, but she

doesn't succeed.

The bell rings again. Allison turns her heard towards the front

door.

A BUSY STREET IN NEW-YORK - EXTERIOR DAY

Hedra is walking very fast on the sidewalk. She passes a fruit

shop and bumps into a pedestrian girl, but doesn't stop to

apologize.

Hedra keeps on walking very fast. She seems worried.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

The manager has a key ring with many keys in his hand. He is

sorting them trying to find the right key to the apartment.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - MAIN LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra is crossing the lobby, walking very fast.

She reaches the elevator and presses the call button.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

On the TV screen, a video clip with loud rock music behind.

Reverse angle shot on Allison, still trying to free herself from

the armchair.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

Close up on the manager's hand putting the key in the keyhole.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison hears the key moving in the keyhole and turns her head

towards the front door.

Close up on the video clip : a man is running, apparently chased

by men armed with spears.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR DAY

Hedra just came out of the elevator and is closing the inner door

of the cabin. She turns the corner of the hall and suddenly sees

the manager and the neighbor near Graham's door. She runs towards

them and yells.

The apartment door is wide open, but, when they see Hedra, the two

men don't enter the apartment. The neighbor goes back into his own

apartment, but the manager remains just outside the apartment.

Hedra closes the door to talk to the manager, but she doesn't lock

it.

She enters the apartment and closes the door shut behind her.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Allison turns her head towards the front door.

Hedra enters the room, walking very fast. She drops her purse on a

chair and walks to the TV set. She switches it off. Then she walks

slowly towards Allison, with a quite menacing face.

She gives Allison a very hard slap in the face. She kneels down in

front of her, and shakes her shoulders a couple of times. Then she

stops but remains kneeling on the floor, while she's talking to

her.

She stands up.

She knocks a large metal vase down on the floor.

She comes behind Allison and pulls her hair to tilt her head back.

She releases Allison's hair.

She walks out of the room. She is crying.

We hear her crying in the next room. Allison turns her head

slightly towards her.

Close up on Allison's face. We hear Hedra screaming and breaking

things. Allison seems terrified.

Hedra comes back into the room. She has a big knife with a

serrated blade in her hand.

Close up on Allison's face. She seems more and more terrified. She

starts moaning under her tape gag.

Hedra is now just behind Allison. She puts the tip of the blade on

Allison's throat, then the full length of the blade.

She tears the tape off Allison's mouth.

Hedra's face is now very close to Allison's one. Allison raises

her head and kisses Hedra on the mouth.

Close up on the serrated blade of the knife on Allison's throat.

The blade is ready to tear the skin, but doesn't move further.

Slowly, Allison moves her mouth away from Hedra's one.

Hedra slowly raises up. She has a strange look on her face. She

seems not to understand the situation anymore.

Close-up on Allison's head and throat. We can see the slightly

bloody marks left by the serrated blade. Allison looks at Hedra

moving away from her with an anxious face.

Hedra kneels down in front of Allison. She bends down to rest her

face on Allison's lap, and starts crying. Allison moves her hand

as far as she can and strokes Hedra's hair.

Close-up on a wallet on the floor, close to Allison's foot.

Allison is trying to reach it with her foot, but she can't because

of her leg still being taped on the armchair.

She eventually succeeds in kicking the wallet away from the

armchair. And she keeps on stroking Hedra's hair, still crying on

her lap.

NEW YORK - EXTERIOR EVENING

Large overview of the city. There is still daylight, but we can

tell, by the color of the sky, that we are getting closer to the

night.

FONTANA FASHION OFFICE - MAIN HALL - INTERIOR EVENING

In the forefront, Mitchell's assistant, Barbara, is typing on the

keyboard of a computer. Behind her, we see rows of dresses on

hangers.

Suddenly, the woman stares at the screen. We hear strange clicking

and beeping noises coming from the computer.

She stands up, with horror in her face, and yells.

FONTANA FASHION OFFICE - MITCHELL'S OFFICE - INTERIOR EVENING

The room is much smaller, and quite dark. A blonde woman is

sitting on an armchair in front of a desk. Mitchell is standing

behind her. Mitchell is slightly rocking the armchair and the

blonde woman's eyes are closed.

He doesn't stop rocking the armchair.

He reluctantly leaves the armchair and walks out of the room.

FONTANA FASHION OFFICE - MAIN HALL - INTERIOR EVENING

Mitchell crosses the hall

The computer is still making strange beeping noises. On the

screen, pictures of dresses appear and then disappear immediately.

Close up on the screen. A data chart titled Fontana Fashions has

appeared. The extreme left column is labelled Expenses, and

underneath, a list of all the expenses (Lease - Telephone -

Payroll - Liabilities... and son on). The other columns on the

right are labelled Jan to Apr, and underneath lists of numbers

corresponding to the various monthly expenses.

But, the data chart has hardly appeared on the screen that the

columns of numbers start erasing themselves one by one, starting

with January.

Then, when all the numbers have been erased, a window appears on

the screen with LOST! written in red letters in it.

Another data chart appears on the screen : the expenses from May

to August. And, on this chart, the columns of numbers also start

to erase themselves.

Mitchell looks severely at Barbara. She raises her hands.

Suddenly, Mitchell seems to remember something.

He runs away toward his office.

The blonde woman is standing in the doorway of the office.

Mitchell brutally pushes her away.

FONTANA FASHION OFFICE - MITCHELL'S OFFICE - INTERIOR EVENING

Mitchell types something on the keyboard of his computer. We hear

the computer beeping.

Close-up on the computer screen. A data chart titled Production

line, and underneath Fontana Fashions Production Line.

Underneath, four columns of numbers labelled Order, Sam,

Scheduled and Completed. All the numbers in these columns are

erasing themselves. And then appears the window with LOST! in

red letters.

Then another rectangular window appears on the screen. On the left

of the window, the drawing of a bomb with a lighted wick sticking

out of it. On the rest of the window, the following text :

Mitchell bends down to have a better look at the screen.

Close up on the screen, while Mitchell reads out loud :

Medium shot of Mitchell reading what's written on the screen.

Mitchell jumps up.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - WORKING ROOM - INTERIOR EVENING

Allison is seated behind Graham's desk. She unplugs the cord from

the telephone set and plugs it in the back of a small portable

computer.

Shot on floor level. We see the bottom of the desk chair and

Allison's legs, around which there is still some duct tape. Hedra

is kneeling on the floor near the desk. She has a telephone cord

in her hand.

Hedra gets up and looks at what Allison is doing with the

computer.

Close up on Hedra's face who looks intensely at Allison, not

believing completely that Allison is not trying to fool her.

She walks away.

FONTANA FASHION OFFICE - MAIN HALL - INTERIOR EVENING

Close up on Allison Jones' business card. Above her name, a logo

that reads Concept Software. Under Allison's name, the title

Software Designer, and underneath 768 West 74th Street, Suite

1103, New York, and underneath (212) 555-9814. On the top of

the card, written with a pencil 555-8796 KNOX.

Mitchell's forefinger points at the penciled number on the card.

Mitchell is standing near Barbara's desk. She has the telephone

receiver to her ear, trying to reach someone to help them.

Mitchell brings the next desk telephone to him by pulling it by

its cord. He start dialing on the telephone.

We hear the engaged tone.

He throws the receiver on the desk. He starts walking away, then

turns to Barbara.

Barbara remains calm, with the telephone receiver still at her

ear.

Mitchell runs out of the room, and Barbara puts the telephone

down.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - WORKING ROOM - INTERIOR EVENING

Close up on the computer screen. The window is titled

Compuserve. Underneath it reads Flight Reservation. And

underneath Browse Flights by Fares. Underneath : Departure

City:. Next to it a box, where we see the letters JFK being

typed. Underneath Destination City:. Next to it, another box,

where we see the letters LAX being typed. Another window

appears, titled Flight Information, and giving all the details

of the different flights between New-York and Los Angeles.

Allison is sitting at the desk typing on the computer, and Hedra

is standing next to her.

She gets out of the room.

Close up on the computer screen. It switches from Flight

Information to Main Menu, and then to Chat-Mail Menu.

Close up on Allison's face focused on her typing on the computer.

Close up on the computer screen. It reads CB Simulator, and

underneath Chat Mode Initiated, and underneath User: Don193.

Underneath, we see the following words being typed :

Allison is typing very fast. She knows she doesn't have much time.

Close up on the computer screen. The following words have been

added :

Back on Allison sitting at the desk and typing. Slowly and

silently, Hedra enters the room.

Close up on Hedra's angry face. She bends down

Allison at the desk seen from behind. Suddenly we hear the noise

of a plug being pulled off from its socket. The computer screen

becomes all black and Allison turns quickly around. Hedra is

pointing her gun at her.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - MAIN LOBBY - INTERIOR EVENING

Close up shot on the window above the elevator door. We see the

elevator coming down. The camera follows the elevator down to

floor level. Mitchell is waiting in front of the elevator door.

The elevator outer door opens. Hedra is inside. She keeps the

inner door shut.

The outer door closes in front of a bewildered Mitchell.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR EVENING

Hedra opens the door of Allison's private cage, and enters the

cage. She tries to open a suitcase, but doesn't succeed. She slaps

nervously the suitcase. She then finds another suitcase, which is

open. She tries to fit herself inside the suitcase, and more or

less succeeds. She seems very nervous. She gets out of the

suitcase, closes it and carries it out of the cage.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - ELEVATOR CABIN - INTERIOR EVENING

Close up on the numbers above the door. They go from 9 to 10,

and then to 11.

Hedra is watching the numbers. The elevator stops.

The outer door opens. Mitchell is there, waiting for the elevator.

He opens the inner door and comes in the cabin. The outer door

closes automatically and the elevator cabin starts moving up again

He looks at the control panel, where the 12th floor is lighted.

Then he looks at Hedra, who looks back at him with a rather

unwelcoming face.

The elevator stops and Mitchell goes out first.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR NIGHT

Through the windows, we can see that night has come.

Mitchell goes out of the elevator, followed by Hedra pulling her

suitcase behind her.

Hedra goes directly to Graham's apartment. Mitchell first goes in

the opposite direction, and then comes back towards Hedra.

Hedra is now in front of Graham's door and puts the key in the

keyhole. Mitchell has caught up with her, and is standing behind

her.

Hedra suddenly stops unlocking the door.

Hedra turns around to face Mitchell.

She bends down to pick up the suitcase.

Mitchell bends down to help her. He picks up the suitcase and

looks at it.

We hear a muffled scream coming from inside the apartment.

Hedra opens the door to get inside as fast as possible, but

Mitchell catches her and throws her aside. More muffled screams

coming from the apartment. Mitchell rushes into the apartment, and

closes the door shut behind him. Hedra rushes to the door, but too

late.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Mitchell rushes into the room, stops and looks down.

Allison is lying on the carpet, completely tied up in duct tape,

looking like a human salami. She is gagged by another piece of

tape. When she sees Mitchell, she starts wriggling and screaming

through her gag.

He kneels down and tears the tape off her mouth.

Hedra enters the room, pointing her gun towards Mitchell.

Mitchell, still kneeling down across Allison's body, turns around.

Hedra walks towards him, still pointing her gun with both hands in

front of her.

He gets up very slowly with his hands raised at his shoulders

level. And suddenly, he grabs the gun and throws Hedra across the

room. She falls on a round table, which breaks under her weight.

She remains motionless on the floor.

Allison looks anxiously at the scene, but, from her lying position

on the carpet, doesn't see everything.

Mitchell puts the gun inside his belt and kneels down to untie

Allison.

Hedra suddenly comes behind him, and strikes him very hard on the

head with a statuette. He falls down on the floor. Hedra rushes to

him and picks up the gun from his belt. She takes a cushion from

the back of an armchair, puts the cushion on Mitchell's face and

presses the barrel of the gun on the cushion. Allison screams.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Graham is lying in the empty bathtub, with his cat sleeping on his

right shoulder. There are a few traces of blood on the side of the

bathtub.

We hear the muffled sound of a gun shot. Then a scream from

Allison and another gunshot.

The camera moves closer to Graham's face. He has a large bloody

bump on his forehead.

There is a slight move of his head, then a slight blink of his

eyelids.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up on Hedra's hands taking some pills out of a medicine

bottle.

The camera moves up to Hedra's face.

Hedra turns her head towards Allison sitting at the desk in front

of the computer. The camera moves away to a larger shot, and we

see that the gun is stuck in the hollow of Hedra's left elbow.

Allison shakes her head no.

Close up on the computer screen. We see the words Hedra just

dictated : I don't want to try to be loved... and so on up to

...there isn't one. The words Allison Jones are being typed.

Back to Hedra pointing her gun to Allison. She takes Allison's

hand and presses it on the screen of the computer.

She brings a glass of water to Allison, who takes it.

She puts the barrel of the gun on Allison's temple, and she opens

her left hand in front of Allison's face.

Close up on Hedra's hand full of blue pills. She pours them into

Allison's left hand. Allison's other hand still holds the glass of

water.

Without warning, Allison suddenly smashes the glass on Hedra's

face.

Then the two girls start fighting for the gun. Allison slams

Hedra's hand on a mirror hanging on the wall. The glass of the

mirror breaks into small pieces, but Hedra doesn't drop the gun.

The two girls keep on fighting on the floor, knocking various

object around them.

Close up of Allison's hand holding Hedra's hand with the gun, and

smashing it through the window. The pane breaks into small pieces,

and Hedra drops the gun on the balcony.

Hedra moves away from Allison.

Close up of Allison's hand picking up a piece of glass lying near

the gun on the balcony.

Allison slashes Hedra's chest with the broken piece of glass.

Hedra falls on the floor and Allison rushes out of the room.

Hedra gets up and picks up the gun from the balcony.

GRAHAM'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison is fumbling with the locks and the safety bar of the front

door.

Hedra rushes into the corridor, pointing her gun at Allison.

Allison has opened the door and turns around to face Hedra.

Hedra walks slowly along the corridor towards Allison.

Allison still has the piece of broken glass in her hand.

Behind Hedra, we see Graham moving in the bathroom.

Reverse angle shot to Allison standing in the open doorway and

holding the piece of broken glass.

Close up on the barrel of the gun.

Graham rushes out of the bathroom, grabs Hedra by the waist and

falls with her on the floor.

Graham bangs Hedra's head repeatedly on the floor. Hedra succeeds

in moving slightly away from him, and try to point her gun toward

him.

Allison rushes towards them, grabs Hedra by her feet, and pulls

her towards the front door. Hedra, still lying on her stomach

while being pulled away by Allison, still tries desperately to

point her gun towards Graham.

Allison succeeds in pulling Hedra out of the apartment. Hedra

grabs the front door with both hands to try to resist Allison's

pull.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - LANDING HALL OUTSIDE GRAHAM'S APARTMENT -

INTERIOR NIGHT

Allison pulls a little harder, and Hedra's hands are squeezed by

the door. She screams. Allison lets go of Hedra's legs to close

the door shut.

Allison runs away towards the elevator. Hedra, still lying on the

floor, raises her gun towards Allison and shoots.

Allison screams : she's been shot in the left shoulder. Hedra

shoots again, but Allison hides behind the corner of the wall of

the hall.

Hedra gets up to run after Allison.

Close up on the elevator. Allison is already inside the cabin and

closes the inner door just as Hedra reaches the elevator.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - ELEVATOR CABIN - INTERIOR DAY

Allison pulls Hedra right arm through the vertical bars of the

inner door, and opens it again, squeezing Hedra's arm very hard.

Hedra screams and drops her gun on the cabin floor. Allison closes

the inner door shut.

Close up of Allison's hand picking the gun up from the floor.

Hedra watches the outer door closing slowly.

Allison points the gun towards Hedra and presses the trigger

several times. But nothing happens : there are no more cartridge

in the chamber of the gun.

Hedra opens the inner door to get into the elevator. Allison tries

to prevent her from getting in, but Hedra eventually succeeds in

getting into the cabin. She closes the inner door, and the outer

door closes itself automatically.

Hedra throws Allison against the wall of the cabin. Then she bangs

her head very hard against the wall. Allison pulls Hedra away from

her. Hedra hits the wall on the other side of the cabin, and falls

on the floor. Allison rushes and falls on Hedra, but Hedra pushes

her away from her.

The two girls start fighting in the cabin. They fall on the floor,

Hedra on top of Allison. Hedra tries to strangle Allison.

Close up of Allison's face choking under the pressure of Hedra's

hands.

Short reverse angle close up shot of Hedra's face, then back to

Allison's face.

Close up on the screwdriver hanging from its chain and rocking

gently with the movement of the elevator. Allison's hand tries to

catch it and doesn't succeed.

Back on Allison's face, suffocating more and more under Hedra's

strangulation. Back, for a couple of seconds, to Allison's hand

trying to catch the screwdriver, and then back to her suffocating

face.

Close up on Allison's hand which has eventually caught the

screwdriver, then back to her face. The face slowly relaxes as

Allison falls into unconsciousness. Her arm, which was extended to

catch the screwdriver, falls on the floor of the cabin.

Hedra watches Allison's face intently. Then, when she realizes

that Allison is unconscious, she bends down and kisses her on the

cheek. She brings Allison's both arms along Allison's sides, then

she puts her head on her chest and kisses her hand.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR DAY

The outer door of the elevator opens, and, through the vertical

bars of the inner door, we can see Allison still lying on her back

on the floor of the cabin. Hedra opens the inner door, then pulls

Allison by the legs out of the elevator.

She pulls Allison along the corridor of the basement.

She reaches the door opening on the emergency staircase, and kicks

it shut.

She suddenly stops and looks intently at Allison lying on the

floor. She grabs a green blanket on a shelf and wraps Allison's

face in it.

She pushes a a heavy metallic storage shelves cabinet along the

wall all the way to the emergency staircase door, in order to

prevent it from being opened by anyone coming from the staircase.

Then she pulls down a big lever on the wall on the side of the

cage where the elevator machinery is enclosed. We supposed it is

the emergency switch of the elevator, and that she also wants to

prevent anyone coming down to the basement from using the

elevator.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - INCINERATOR ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra picks up some pieces of dry wood from a wheelbarrow and puts

them inside the incinerator, where some flames are still burning.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra pushes the empty wheelbarrow along the corridor of the

basement.

Suddenly she stops, drops the wheelbarrow and emits a short

scream.

Reverse angle shot on the green blanket on the floor. Allison is

gone.

Hedra looks very worried.

She runs to the blanket, but doesn't stop and keeps on running to

the elevator. She gives a quick look inside the open cabin, then

tries to open a large locked gate, near the elevator, but doesn't

succeed.

She goes back along the corridor the way she came from. Near the

place where she left the wheelbarrow, she comes to a door marked

Storage, and opens it

But this is just a closet full of various junk.

Hedra thinks she heard something and quickly turns around. She

takes a big iron hook from the storage closet and starts walking

menacingly along the corridor.

She bangs the hook on a vertical pipe on the wall.

Close up on a rat scuttling away from the noise.

Close up on Allie hidden in a big metal box, near the ceiling of

the basement. This metal box is obviously a part of the

ventilation system.

The rat is running along a large horizontal pipe towards Allison,

who seems frightened by it.

High angle shot of Hedra seen from Allison's hiding place.

Close up on Allison's face, frightened by the rat.

Reverse angle close up shot of the rat coming towards us and

Allison.

Back to Allison looking at the rat.

High angle shot of Hedra. She is crying.

The rat has reached Allison's hiding place. She pushes it down

from the pipe where it was standing.

The rat falls on Hedra's shoulder. She screams.

Allison hides back into the ventilation metal box not to be seen

by Hedra.

Hedra throws the rat on the floor.

The rat runs away.

Hedra looks up at the place where the rat fell from.

Close up at Allison's hiding place. The metal box seems empty.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - INCINERATOR ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra comes back into the incinerator room. Just above the open

door of the incinerator, there is a big ventilation metal box,

similar to the one Allison is hiding in.

Hedra bangs the box with her hook. She must think that Allison is

crawling inside the ventilation system.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR DAY

Allison is peeking from behind a corner of the corridor.

Reverse angle shot showing what Allison sees. We - and she - see

the incinerator room with Hedra banging her hook on the

ventilation system.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - INCINERATOR ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Hedra is walking backward, away from the incinerator. She hears a

strange noise and turns around.

ALLISON'S BUILDING - BASEMENT - INTERIOR DAY

We see the open door of a cage slightly moving with a squeaking

noise.

Hedra walks toward the cage.

Close up on a big wooden closet with two doors. A piece of green

fabric is sticking out between the two closed doors.

Hedra bangs her hook on the closet.

She opens the door, sees herself in a mirror at the back of the

closet, and thinking it's Allison, bangs her hook on the mirror

and breaks it.

Hedra backs up one step from the closet. And suddenly, Allison,

who was hiding in the pipework on the ceiling, falls down upside

down, hanging from her legs hooked in the pipework. She stabs

Hedra in the back with the elevator screwdriver. Hedra screams,

and tries to take the screwdriver off her back.

Allison drops on the floor. Hedra tries to hit her with the hook,

but Allison grabs her arm.

With her other free hand, Allison pulls the screwdriver out of

Hedra's back, then immediately sticks it again in another place on

Hedra's back.

Hedra slowly falls on the floor, where she remains motionless.

Allison looks down at her, trying to catch her breath back.

She kneels down to close Hedra's eyelids.

BLACK SCREEN

ALLISON'S NEW APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

This is Allison's new place. Actually it is the apartment Allison

visited with Sam, just before the puppy's death.

Some furniture from the old apartment, and a lot of unopened boxes

on the floor. It looks like if Allison just moved in.

Very large windows overlooking New-York. Allison is standing near

one of the windows, with her back toward us.

Close up on Hedra's collection of photographs, lying near the

shoebox where she used to stock them. In the forefront, the black

and white picture of Hedra and her twin sister holding a dog

between them.

We see Allison's hands taking the pictures one by one.

The last picture she takes is the black and white picture of the

twins with the dog. She puts all the pictures back in the shoebox,

with the twins and dog picture on the top.

Allison puts the lid back on the shoebox.

The camera moves slowly away from the shoebox to a last photograph

hidden underneath some wrapping plastic material.

Close up on the picture. It looks like the picture of the face of

one woman. But actually, the picture is a mixture of two pictures.

The left half-side of the picture shows Allison's face, when the

right half-side shows Hedra's face.

CREDITS

The credit are rolling up on the picture of Hedra / Allison for

about 25 seconds, then fade-out to black screen, where the end of

the credits are rolling up.

