FADE IN:

INT. A MENTAL HOSPITAL - DAY

A few patients sit around fumbling with themselves. One man

sits at a table scratching back and forth on a piece of paper

with a crayon. Another stands in a corner smoking a cigarette

and staring at the crayon guy. This is CHARLES. Another man,

KARL, sits in a chair staring at the floor and rubbing his

hands together. We cut back and forth between Charles staring

and Crayon Man scratching. After a moment, an attendant

approaches Charles.

Charles stares at him blankly for a moment and continues

smoking. He looks back to Crayon Man again for a moment then

looks over at Karl and then goes and sits down beside him.

INT. A HALLWAY - DAY

Two young women, MARSHA DWIGGINS, carrying a briefcase, and

THERESA EVANS, carrying two camera bags are being led down

the hallway by a GUARD.

They reach a door and the guard ushers them through.

INT. AN OFFICE - DAY

JERRY WOOLRIDGE stands up from behind the desk as they enter.

He's in his fifiles and looks like a school teacher, shop

class or perhaps eighth-grade science.

Woolridge shakes hands with them.

INT. REC ROOM - DAY

CLOSE UP on Karl's face. Charles has started another

monologue.

INT. WOOLRIDGE'S OFFICE

The girls look confused.

INT. REC ROOM

INT. WOOLRIDGE'S OFFICE

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Woolridge and the two women walk down the hallway.

INT. CLASSROOM - DAY

Woolridge is opening a door. He enters and the women follow

him in. He flips on a light switch and very bright florescent

lights illuminate the room.

INT. REC ROOM

CLOSE UP on Charles's face.

Off screen we hear FOOTSTEPS approaching. We pull back and

see MELVIN the guard.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Melvin and Karl walk down the hallway. Woolridge stands

outside the door of the classroom. They reach him and

Woolridge talks quietly to Karl.

INT. CLASSROOM - DAY

It's just Woolridge and the two women in the room.

Marsha smiles and looks at Theresa.

Woolridge turns on a lamp on a desk and turns off the

overhead lights. He opens the door and Melvin brings Karl in.

In the semidarkness Woolridge pushes a chair up and motions

for Marsha to sit. Karl stands beside Melvin motionless.

Woolridge whispers to Theresa.

Theresa starts to protest.

Karl sits down in a folding chair near a lamp as Melvin

ushers Theresa outside into the hallway. Karl sits staring at

the floor. Rubbing his palms together and breathing

strangely, as usual. He sits silent for what seems like

forever.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Theresa stands on one side of the door, Melvin on the other.

Theresa takes a cigarette from her purse and starts to light

it.

INT. CLASSROOM - DAY

Marsha is staring at Karl. Karl, still breathing and rubbing

his palms, starts to speak. His voice is low and raspy, but

not just low and raspy; strange.

Suddenly Marsha speaks from the darkness.

This seems to startle the very room itself. Woolridge motions

for Marsha to shut up and Karl stops still. Very still. He

breathes hard for a moment then starts to calm down. He seems

almost at ease. He slowly looks up. From Karl's point of view

we barely see Marsha's face in the dim light. Karl is looking

straight at Marsha.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Woolridge stands just outside the classroom door with Marsha

and Theresa. Karl stands down the way a few feet with Melvin.

Marsha and Theresa walk toward the exit. As they pass Karl he

speaks to Marsha.

Karl doesn't take her hand.

Karl continues to stare at the floor until the women exit.

Karl walks slowly down the hallway.

EXT. BUS STATION - MILLSBURG - DAY

Karl steps off the bus carrying a few books by a strap. He

stands there for moment staring at the bus station as the few

people around stare at him, then he starts walking.

A SERIES OF SHOTS

Karl standing in front of a barbershop looking through the

window at a man having his hair cut.

In front of the police station.

Staring at an empty school yard...

EXT. DAIRY QUEEN - DAY

Karl stands and stares at the building for a moment. He sees

a woman take a tray of food from the window.

When she's gone, he walks up to the window. A pimply-faced

TEENAGE BOY comes to wait on him.

Karl stands in silence for a moment.

Karl digs in his pocket for money.

EXT. LAUNDROMAT - DAY

Karl sits on a bench eating french fries. After a moment, a

twelve- or thirteen-year-old BOY comes out of the laundromat

wrestling three or four big bags of laundry. He can't seem to

get a plan together for carrying them all. Karl gets up and

goes over to him. The boy looks up at Karl, a little startled

by Karl's strange figure looming over him.

Karl picks up two sacks and they walk away.

EXT. STREET - DAY

They walk in silence for a while before the boy finally

speaks.

They reach a little white frame house and the boy turns up

the sidewalk.

Karl sets the bags down and he and the boy stare at each

other in silence for a moment.

He goes inside leaving Karl staring at the front door.

INT. BUS STATION - DAY

Karl stands at the counter. A middle-aged man is selling

tickets.

INT. MENTAL HOSPITAL - DAY

Karl walks down the hallway carrying his books. A couple

staffers give him 'Why are you still here' looks. He reaches

a door and goes in.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

There is no one at the desk in the outer office, so Karl goes

into Woolridge's office.

INT. WOOLRIDGE'S OFFICE - DAY

Karl finds Woolridge doing paper work. Woolridge looks up

startled.

They sit and stare at each other for a moment.

INT. WOOLRIDGE DEN - NIGHT

Woolridge, his WIFE, his teenage SON, BUBBA, and teenage

DAUGHTER sit in various comfortable chairs looking extremely

uncomfortable and staring at Karl, who is sitting on the edge

of a chair looking at the floor. After a long creepy moment,

Mom speaks.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

It's an all-American girls room. Everything is pink. There

are stuffed animals everywhere and posters of pop idols.

Karl stands in the middle of the room holding his books.

Woolridge closes the door.

INT. WOOLRIDGE KITCHEN - NIGHT

Woolridge walks into the kitchen where Mom and Son sit at the

table.

INT. WOOLRIDGE DEN AND HALLWAY - MORNING

Woolridge, already dressed, walks through the den and down

the hallway. He knocks on the bedroom door.

Woolridge opens the bedroom door and sees Karl sitting on the

edge of the bed beside his books. The light is on, the bed

still as it was the night before.

INT. FIXIT SHOP - DAY

Woolridge's car pulls into the parking lot. He and Karl get

out and walk toward the shop.

INT. FIXIT SHOP - DAY

Two men, BILL COX, a large man in his forties, and SCOOTER

HODGES, a really country-looking guy in his thirties, look up

from behind the counter as Woolridge and Karl enter.

Woolridge goes to the counter, Karl stands by the door

looking at the floor.

Bill slaps Woolridge on the shoulders and wheezes with

laughter.

Karl doesn't say anything.

Woolridge exits. Bill and Scooter just stare at Karl and Karl

stares at the floor.

INT. SHOP WORKROOM - NIGHT

The place is cluttered with mowers, edgers, weed-eaters, and

other equipment, most of it in pieces. A small cot is in a

little clearing in the corner by the bathroom. Karl is

sweeping up oil with sawdust and a push broom while Scooter

puts some tools away. Bill comes to the door.

They leave Karl standing in the midst of the lawn mowers. He

sets the broom down and goes and sits on the cot. After a

moment, he gets back up and starts sweeping again.

INT. SHOP - DAY

It's lunch time and Bill, Scooter, and Karl are sitting in

folding chairs behind the counter eating from their Dairy

Queen to-go bags. Karl has french fries.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Karl is walking down a residential street. He stops in front

of the house where the boy, Frank, lives and stares at the

house for a moment, then he walks up to the door and stares

at it. A curtain moves and the boy's face appears at the

window. He comes and opens the door.

He starts to walk away.

INT. BEN'S DOLLAR STORE - DAY

Frank and Karl make their way through the fairly crowded

store. It's sort of a mini-version of a Walmart. They find

Frank's mother in her red smock talking to a guy in a red

Ben's knit shirt. They are laughing together and pricing some

mouthwash. LINDA WHEATLEY is a short, plain woman in her

thirties. The man, VAUGHAN CUNNINGHAM, is in his forties,

with a neat flattop hair cut, glasses, and a paunch hanging

over his belt. They eye Karl suspiciously, as the boys

approach.

There's an uncomfortable silence.

She shuffles him away and leaves Vaughan staring at Karl.

Linda and Frank return from the back.

They walk off down the aisle leaving Vaughan a little

puzzled.

EXT. WOODED AREA - LATE AFTERNOON

Karl and Frank sit on stumps in a little clearing enjoying

the spoils of their Ben's Dollar Store visit.

Pause as Frank looks at the ground again. He seems troubled.

Karl shifts around and makes a noise in his throat and

doesn't answer.

INT. SHOP - DAY

Karl is tying the strap around his books. His sack of

toiletries is on the bed. Bill Cox comes in.

INT. WHEATLEY LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

DOYLE is in the comfortable easy chair with adjuster handle

drinking beer. He's in his late thirties and dressed in his

construction clothes. Linda sits on the arm of the chair and

Frank stands before them.

EXT. PORCH - NIGHT

Karl is standing on the porch with his bag and his books

staring at the door. After a moment, we hear a car door slam

and footsteps on the porch. Then we hear Vaughan's voice.

Karl turns to face Vaughan.

They stand therefor a moment. Vaughan doesn't really know

exactly what else to do, so he knocks on the door. After a

moment, Frank answers the door.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Vaughan ushers Karl in and they stand behind the sofa. Doyle

looks up and grins.

She starts to get her things together.

Linda kisses Frank on the forehead and they leave.

Karl sits on the couch.

Frank leans on the sofa arm beside Karl.

Frank is crying now.

They get up and walk away.

INT. GARAGE - NIGHT

Karl sits on an old sofa and Frank sits on an upside down

paint bucket, still upset.

Karl starts to put together a cracker and potted meat delight

as we:

INT. HAMBURGER ESTABLISHMENT - DAY

Vaughan is carrying a tray of food as Karl follows him to a

table and they sit and immediately start to eat. After a few

bites, Vaughan starts to speak in an official manner.

Karl looks up and stares for a moment.

INT. WHEATLEY KITCHEN - NIGHT

Linda, Frank, and Doyle are eating.

They eat in silence for a while. Linda and Frank know where

this conversation could lead and know when to leave well

enough alone.

INT. GARAGE - NIGHT

Karl sits on his cot eating from the plate Frank brought him.

Frank and Linda come through the door. Frank comes and sits

beside Karl. Linda gets a guitar case down from a shelf and

comes over and stands in front of Karl.

The garage door opens and Doyle appears. He seems really

happy.

INT. BACKYARD - NIGHT

White Christmas tree lights are strung above the patio. Karl

sits to the side in a kitchen chair staring at the ground

alongside Vaughan, Frank, and Linda. The "band" is set up on

the patio. The band consists of MORRIS, a heavyset guy in a

military uniform on tambourine, TERENCE, a skinny guy in a

wheelchair on bass, RANDY, a long haired younger guy who's

not an Indian on guitar, Doyle on a guitar which he can't

play and MONTY "The Johnson " Johnson, a large guy with a ZZ

Top beard on drums. A tub of beer is in front of them.

They're all hooting and hollering and drinking. They've

obviously been at it for a while. Doyle steps forward to

address the 'crowd.'

ANGLE ON LINDA

Karl claps his hands a little.

They play "Walk Don't Run" while the audience of four sits in

motionless silence. They finish the song and hoot and holler

and drink some more and say nasty things to each other.

We hear the voice of an OLD MAN NEIGHBOR in the near

distance.

INT. DOYLE'S TRUCK - NIGHT

Doyle is driving, Vaughan in the middle, and Karl by the

window. Doyle cranks up the truck and pops in a cassette

tape. The first few notes of "Ghost Riders in the Sky" play.

They take off, tires screaming on the pavement as the song

goes louder.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

The truck fishtails into the night and we see the rest of the

"band" in the back of the truck trying to control Terence's

wheelchair as it rolls back and forth.

INT. TRUCK - NIGHT

They are stopped by a red traffic light. A police car pulls

up beside them and Doyle looks over at the RED-FACED COP on

the passenger side and turns down the music.

Doyle peels out and the music blares again.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Doyle slouches in his chair drinking whiskey from the bottle.

Terence and Morris are sitting facing Karl and Vaughan who

are on the sofa. Randy and The Johnson are sitting across the

room in straight-backed chairs drinking beer. They really

stocked up at the county line and beer and liquor bottles are

strewn everywhere. Morris is in the middle of a monologue,

which has obviously been going on for awhile.

Silence for a moment as everyone in the room just stares at

something other than Morris.

Doyle jumps up and throws his whiskey bottle through the

window. He has changed from groggy drunk to a wild-eyed

madman in a flash.

Doyle grabs the handles of Terence's wheelchair and pushes

him right out the screen door. We hear the chair clatter down

the steps and a cry of pain from Terence.

They all file out the door except Vaughan and Karl who sit

frozen on the sofa.

He slams the door and turns to see Vaughan and Karl on the

sofa and Linda and Frank, in their nightclothes, standing in

the doorway.

Linda walks up to him with Frank close behind. Vaughan gets

up also. Karl stares at the floor rubbing his hands together.

She shoves him in the chest and he slaps her hard in the

face. Vaughan starts looking for a weapon and Frank goes

wild. He starts throwing anything he can find at Doyle. Empty

cans, bottles, a lampstand.

He connects with an encyclopedia to the head. Doyle goes to

the door. His face has changed from angry to sad, almost

pitiful.

He leaves and slams the door. Frank goes to Linda's side, as

does Vaughan.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Linda cleaning up the last of the mess. Frank comes in sleepy

eyed in his pajamas.

He goes to his room.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Linda goes into the kitchen and pours a cup of coffee and

sits at the table. After a moment, she looks up and is

startled to see Karl in the doorway.

Karl just keeps standing there and Linda keeps staring.

More silence.

Karl sets at the table and Linda starts to make the biscuits.

She keeps working.

Linda stops working and turns to Karl, a little shocked, but

not as much as you would think.

EXT. COVS PARKING LOT - DAY

Bill Cox is standing beside a garden tiller with an old man.

Bill is trying to crank it up, but it won't start. A car

pulls into the parking lot and Gerry Woolridge gets out of it

and comes over to Bill.

Bill looks over at Scooter, who is putting up a sale sign on

new mowers in the front window.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

Woolridge and Karl lean on the hood of Woolridge's car. In

the background, Bill and the old man tinker with the tiller.

They walk over to Bill.

Karl squats beside the tiller.

Karl looks up from the tiller holding the gas cap.

INT. VAUGHAN'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Vaughan, ALBERT the "friend," Linda, Frank, Karl, and

MELINDA, the Dollar-Store girl, are seated at the table. Karl

and Frank are going at the delicacies while Melinda shyly

picks at hers and the others are engaged in idle chit chat.

This goes on for a few moments, then Albert's attention turns

to Karl.

Nods and yeses.

Silence for a moment.

Nods, grunts, "Sure do's."

He gets up and walks toward the front door. Melinda gets up

and tries to catch up.

EXT. SIDEWALK - NIGHT

Karl and Melinda are walking in the moonlight. It seems a

little hard for Melinda to keep up.

They walk a little farther in silence.

They walk until they disappear into the darkness.

INT. COX'S SHOP - DAY

Karl is on the floor working on a mower with Scooter, they

are ad libbing semi-technical lawnmower things. Bill Cox

appears in the door.

Karl gets up and goes to the counter followed by Scooter.

Melinda stands on the other side of the counter holding a

cellophane wrapped store-bought flower assortment. Nobody

says anything for a moment.

She hands them to him.

They start to leave. At the door, Bill Cox turns and winks at

Karl. They exit leaving Karl and Melinda staring at the

counter. They are silent for a while.

She walks to the door and stops as if she expects Karl to say

something.

She leaves and Karl goes to the window holding the flowers

and watches her walk away.

EXT. SIDEWALK - DUSK

Holding the flowers, Karl is walking down the sidewalk toward

the Wheatley house when he sees Frank coming out the front

door with a book and a flashlight. He sees Karl.

EXT. SECRET PLACE - NIGHT

Karl and Frank sit in the clearing, Karl on the stump, Frank

on the ground. Frank is shining the flashlight on the book.

He finishes reading a few lines and turns off the flashlight.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Frank, flowers in hand, and Karl approach a very nice two

story house. They get to the door and Frank rings the

doorbell.

The door opens and we see an older black lady, the

HOUSEKEEPER.

She disappears and a moment later KAREN appears. She's

thirteen, pretty and very neatly dressed.

She eyes Karl.

She proudly displays the ring.

She closes the door. They stand therefor a moment, then walk

away down the sidewalk.

EXT. WHEATLEY HOUSE - DAY

Frank and Karl walk up the steps to the house. Frank opens

the door and they enter.

INT. HOUSE - DAY

As Frank and Karl enter, they see Doyle sitting on a

footstool facing Linda who's in a chair. Doyle is holding

both her hands and talking very softly to her. He sees the

guys and looks up.

They do, on the couch.

He leaves.

Linda moves to the couch and puts her arms around Frank.

INT. SHOP - DAY

Karl is cleaning some parts in a bucket of gasoline. Bill

comes to the door.

Karl wipes his hands on a shop towel and starts outside.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

A MAN and a TEENAGE BOY stand by a pickup truck. A small

generator is on the tailgate.

Karl carries the generator toward the shop. He turns and

watches the man and boy talking and laughing with Bill. The

man playfully puts an arm around his son's neck and tousles

his hair.

Karl turns and goes in the shop.

INT. WHEATLEY GARAGE - DAY

Karl is on his cot reading a book. Frank comes in. He looks

very depressed. He sits beside Karl.

They sit in silence for a moment.

EXT. JUNIOR HIGH FOOTBALL FIELD - DAY

It's the practice field, so it's not very well kept. Karl,

Frank, and two other boys around Frank's age are huddled up.

Four boys are lined on defense. They break the huddle and

come to the line. They are on about the fifty-yard line.

Frank hikes the ball to one of the boys. He later als it to

Karl who stands there for a minute as the defenders run

toward him. Then he takes off like the wind. He runs funny,

kind of humped over and pigeon-toed, but fast. All the others

are chasing him. Two of the other team's boys catch him on

about the fifteen-yard line, but he drags them along. Karl

sees Frank out of the corner of his eye and tosses him the

ball just as Karl bites the dirt. Frank goes into the end

zone untouched. There are cheers from Frank and the other

boys. Frank runs over to Karl who's still on the ground.

He grabs Karl by the hands and helps pull him up.

EXT. SIDEWALK - DAY

Karl and Frank, dirt, grass stains and all, walk toward home.

They walk in silence for a moment.

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Karl sits on his bed rubbing his hands together, deep in

thought.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Karl is walking down the street past rundown houses. He comes

to an old gray woodframe house. It is in bad repair, the

paint is peeling, the yard is grown up. There is an old

wooden shed in the back yard. He stands looking at it for a

moment then walks through the yard and opens the door to the

shed. He's motionless for a moment, then goes inside.

INT. SHED - DAY

Sunlight comes through the cracks in the wood. The shed has

nothing but dirt for a floor. A few tall patches of grass

shoot up between boxes and rusty lawnmowers. A few old garden

tools hang on the wall. In the center is a low circular spot

in the ground and a few tattered shreds of an old quilt.

Karl stands looking at the hole for a moment, then turns and

walks out of the shed.

EXT. YARD - DAY

Karl walks across the yard to the house.

INT. SCREENED-IN PORCH - DAY

Karl goes onto the screened-in porch, looks through the

kitchen window and goes inside.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

The place is a mess. Dirty dishes are piled in the sink and

on the table. It's not just clutter, but filth everywhere.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Karl walks into an equally filthy living room where an OLD

MAN in overalls sits slumped in a chair looking at his lap.

Karl stands facing him for several moments.

No response.

No response.

Long silence.

EXT. YARD

Karl walks out of the house and across the yard to a hedge in

the corner and kneels down. He pushes some grass aside to

reveal a rock about afoot tall and afoot across. In front of

it, the ground is raised a little. He stares at the rock for

a moment and touches it.

EXT. A LARGE OLD WOODEN SLAT BRIDGE - DUSK

Karl stands on the side of the bridge looking into the river

below.

INT. WHEATLEY HOUSE - NIGHT

All the lights are out. We see a shot of Frank in his bed

asleep, but tossing and turning. Then a shot of Linda in bed

staring at the ceiling and Doyle beside her snoring.

Suddenly, the lights come on and Linda lets out a little yelp

and sits up, which wakes up Doyle and he sits up with a

start. From their P.O.V. we see Karl standing in the door

holding a hammer.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

We see a shot of Frank and Linda and Vaughan in a church pew.

The church is pretty full. From their P.O.V. we seek Karl in

a robe standing in the baptismal tank. The preacher takes

Karl and dunks him under the water and brings him back up.

INT. WHEATLEY LIVING ROOM - DAY

Doyle is in his favorite chair as Linda, Frank, and Karl come

through the front door.

She leaves and Doyle walks up to Karl and Frank.

They sit on the couch and Doyle kneels in front of them.

Doyle slaps him across the face and Karl grabs Doyle's arm.

Doyle shakes him off.

Frank jumps up and runs from the house and Doyle sits back in

his chair and pops a beer. Karl gets up and goes to the

garage.

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Karl ties his books up with his strap and gets a bag from his

bed and leaves.

EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY

Karl is walking away as Linda pulls up in her car and gets

out with fast-food bags.

EXT. SECRET PLACE - DAY

Frank is on the ground digging a trench in the dirt with a

stick. He hears footsteps in the leaves and looks up and sees

Karl coming toward him.

He hands him the books.

Karl lays his arm on Frank's shoulder and Frank puts his hand

on Karl's arm. They sit like that for a few moments, then

Karl gets up with his paper sack and walks away. Frank takes

the book marker out of the Christmas book. It is just a

folded piece of notebook paper. On it is written 'You will be

happy.' He looks up at Karl who is now thirty yards away in

the trees.

Karl turns around and he and Frank stare at each other

through the trees.

EXT. VAUGHAN'S HOUSE - DAY

Karl knocks on the door. After a moment, Vaughan answers in a

pair of big shorts and a sweatshirt.

Vaughan takes the bag.

Vaughan watches Karl walk away.

EXT. BUS STATION - NIGHT

Karl stares at the bus station door.

EXT. WHEATLEY HOUSE - NIGHT

Karl stares at the house from the sidewalk.

EXT. OLD WOODS BRIDGE - NIGHT

Karl stares into the river.

INT. COX'S SHOP - NIGHT

Karl has a lawnmower blade sharpening it on a grinding wheel.

EXT. WHEATLEY HOUSE - NIGHT

Karl carrying the blade walks onto the porch and enters the

living room.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Doyle is in his chair drinking beer and watching TV. He looks

up as Karl comes around and sits on the sofa.

Doyle keeps drinking and watching TV.

Karl gets up and walks slowly toward Doyle out of frame. We

see the flickering light of the TV on the wall. O.S. we hear

one short dull thud.

We hear one more thud, then the sound of Doyle's body hitting

the floor. Karl appears in frame again and we follow him to

the kitchen where he picks up the wall phone. He stares at it

for a moment, then pushes 911. He has a few specks of blood

on his face, hand and shirt.

He hangs up and goes to the refrigerator and takes out a jar

of mustard. He gets a knife out of the drawer and sits at the

kitchen table and pulls back a table cloth that is covering

up some leftovers. He picks up a biscuit and opens the

mustard jar and runs the knife around it.

There's hardly any mustard in it. He dabs a little on the

biscuit and takes a bite and relaxes to wait for the law.

CLOSE UP OF CHARLES THE NUT CASE

He's in the middle of one of his sick monologues. We pull

back and see we're in the recreation room of the hospital

again with Karl in his usual chair listening to Charles. Karl

is now wearing the hospital issue clothing.

Karl looks him right in the eye for the first time ever.

Karl gets up and goes to the window and looks out at the

grass that separates him from the next building. He stares

out the window, as we:

