The two guys aren't paying much attention to Kate. They're

more concerned with their crack pipe.

Kate is asleep on the curb. She looks awful. Suddenly, Kate's

eyes widen. She looks around at her surroundings, confused,

then jumps to her feet.

Kate runs through the streets.

We TRACK along with Kate as she dashes past various               *

buildings.                                                        *

We stare down a long, empty street, the downtown SKYSCRAPERS      *

towering in the distance. From out of nowhere --                  *

-- Kate appears at the end of the street and sprints towards      *

the camera.                                                       *

A LEGEND APPEARS OVER THE IMAGE OF KATE RUNNING:

Kate drives -- a paranoid expression on her face and her

hands tightly gripping the steering wheel. She glances down

at --

-- her CELL PHONE in the passenger seat. 21 missed calls.

Kate rubs Charlie's hair and kisses his forehead.

Kate smiles.

Kate takes a shower -- while she drinks a BEER.                *

Gets dressed.

Puts on make-up.

Kate walks into the kitchen, ready to go. Charlie is at the

stove, cooking bacon and eggs. He hands Kate a MUG OF COFFEE

and gestures to the table -- where there's a CHECK.

Kate takes a sip of coffee.

Kate LAUGHS and kisses Charlie.

Kate takes a right on a STREET and then pulls into the            *

PARKING LOT AT AN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

She's about to get out, but then notices...

...the FLASK on the floor.

A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Kate chugs what's left in the flask.

ACROSS THE PARKING LOT                                            *

MR. DAVIES -- the assistant principal, early-40's, slightly       *

nerdy but not bad looking, watches --                             *

-- Kate drink in her car.                                         *

CHILDREN pass by in the distance.                                 *

Mr. Davies takes a beat, but instead of saying anything he        *

walks away through the parking lot.                               *

Kate doesn't notice she's been seen.                              *

Kate stands next to a CHALKBOARD in front of a class of THIRD

GRADERS. She's really animated -- doing her "game show

hostess" schtick.

On the chalkboard are the letters: "AN"

A STUDENT raises her hand.

Hillary hesitates. She looks embarrassed.                       *

Hillary shuffles up to the board and writes "CAN."              *

The class APPLAUDS.

Hillary smiles and goes back to her seat.                       *

A student -- ANGELA -- raises her hand.

-- the kids all make grossed-out faces and say things like --

Embarrassed, Kate quickly gets TISSUES from her desk and

begins cleaning up the mess.

HILLARY stands up.                                                *

Some of the kids begin WHISPERING (saying things like "Ooh!"

"She's gonna have a baby.").

Kate seems flustered and says --

Kate sits across a desk from --

-- PRINCIPAL BARNES: female, early 50's, stern, scattered,        *

and clearly a softy at heart, she wears a pair of GLASSES         *

around her neck.                                                  *

Kate walks down the hall and comes to the door of her

classroom. Through the glass she sees --

-- Mr. Davies. He notices Kate and smiles (the concerned

smile you give someone right after they've publicly

embarrassed themselves).

Kate mouths the words --

-- and gestures "come here."

Mr. Davies gestures   to the class that he'll be right back --

before he walks out   to talk to Kate. He's got a slightly

nervous demeanor --   somewhere between "I never became

comfortable talking   to women" and Asperger's.

Mr. Davies glances down the hall.

Kate looks shocked.

Mr. Davies looks torn, unsure how to respond.

Before Kate can say a word, Mr. Davies heads back into the

classroom.

Kate has her face fully in the sink while water runs over it

and --

-- TWO LITTLE GIRLS curiously watch.

Kate and Charlie play POOL while splitting a PITCHER OF BEER.

It's a bit early to be drinking, but hey -- why not?

Kate takes a long sip of beer.

Kate and Charlie joyfully ride BICYCLES home from the bar.

Charlie gestures to a

BUILDING (could be a church or different type of building

where AA meets).

Kate LAUGHS.

Kate smiles and nods.

Charlie gestures to the street.

Kate looks down but sees nothing.

Kate rolls her eyes -- and then jokingly swerves towards

Charlie, trying to knock him over. He LAUGHS and speeds away.

Kate chases after him.

While an old 70's R & B song plays on a RECORD PLAYER, which

is next to STACKS AND STACKS OF RECORDS --

-- Kate and Charlie drunkenly slow dance, drink WINE, and        *

LAUGH at an AA PAMPHLET.

Kate gets up.

Kate takes a big sip of wine.

Charlie LAUGHS -- he doesn't buy it.

Charlie LAUGHS.

An AA meeting is in progress.

An OLDER WOMAN stands at the podium sharing her story.

Kate chugs frozen Margarita straight from a PITCHER.

Kate and Charlie stand in their backyard, which is criss-

crossed by WHITE CHRISTMAS LIGHTS and has some old LAWN

FURNITURE.

They drunkenly play CROQUET.                                      *

Charlie thinks for a moment.

Kate nods in agreement.                                           *

Charlie leans in to kiss Kate. They make out for a moment,

and then Kate...

...BITES Charlie's lip. Charlie pulls back, shocked. Kate

grins mischievously.

Charlie lunges at Kate, who dodges him and LAUGHS. Charlie

dives and playfully tackles Kate. They begin to wrestle in

the grass -- it's cute and loving but perhaps a little too

intense.

Kate and Charlie are making out on the bed. Kate starts to

unbutton Charlie's shirt. As it turns out, Charlie's

extremely drunk (and it's apparent in his movements and

voice).

Kate removes Charlie's pants and takes off her clothing. She

climbs on top of him and --

-- they start having sloppy, drunk sex.

After a few beats, Kate notices that Charlie isn't moving.

She looks down to discover that --

-- he's passed out.

Kate pauses for a moment...then continues to ride her

unconscious husband.

Kate drinks what's left in the TEQUILA BOTTLE as she

drunkenly searches the fridge, counter, and cupboard for more

booze. She finds a few sips here and there at the bottom of a

couple BEER BOTTLES -- but she seems frustrated that there

isn't more alcohol in the house.

A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Kate puts on her slippers, robe and --

Kate drunkenly rides a BICYCLE down the street (still in her

robe and slippers).

Kate tries to open the LOCKED glass fridge where the BEER is

kept. After several attempts, she gives up and grabs TWO

BOTTLES OF WINE from a shelf.

Kate sets the bottles on the counter.                             *

The CLERK -- a tired looking man in his 30's -- looks at Kate

with pity.

An ELDERLY MAN -- shopping for frozen food -- glances over at

Kate.                                                             *

The clerk holds up his WATCH (which reads 2:45).

Kate reaches down and tries to rewind the clerk's watch.

Kate gives him a big, flirty smile.

Kate tries to do a "sexy" dance.

Kate runs down the aisle and tries to open the bathroom door -

- but it's locked. She hides from view, and then squats down

and begins to pull up her robe.

The clerk clearly isn't going to budge. Kate nods, resigned,

and then...

...grabs a BOTTLE OF WINE and dashes out the door.

Kate is passed out on the concrete bank of the Los Angeles

River. The empty bottle of (screw top) wine is next to her.

Kate's bicycle lays in some weeds nearby.

A bird SQUAWKS.

Kate slowly wakes up, confused, and in a zombie-like state

she gets up and trudges home, wheeling along her bike.

Kate is awakened by the deafeningly loud ALARM CLOCK and the

sound of a news radio ANNOUNCER. She looks at the clock and

realizes that --

-- it's 7:30.

She jumps out of bed in a panic.

Kate pauses when she realizes her back is wet. She looks down

at the bed, which is --

Kate's on her knees, puking into a toilet.

A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Kate exits the stall to find --

-- Principal Barnes standing by the door.

Barnes points at Kate's stomach.

Kate sits on a SMALL CHAIR reading a CHILDREN'S BOOK to her

class --

-- who're sitting Indian style in a semi-circle.

The children LAUGH.

Kate LAUGHS too -- but looks a little freaked out.

Kate eats her PACKED LUNCH with Mr. Davies.

Mr. Davies smiles -- a sweet, genuine smile.

Beat.

Kate tries to hold back a smile.

Principal Barnes mimes "zipping" her lips.

Kate walks in the front door to see    --                      *

-- Charlie working on his computer. A BEER next to him. An

old record PLAYS on the record player.

Kate collapses on the couch next to Charlie and kisses him.

Kate approaches a small church.

Mr. Davies waits outside.

Mr. Davies walks Kate into a medium sized room where --

-- about TEN PEOPLE are getting coffee, talking, and setting

CHAIRS IN A CIRCLE.

Kate looks around the room, scoping out the people, who're

very different from the crowd at the previous night's meeting

--

-- several BLUE COLLAR MEN --

-- JENNY: 40-ish, with dark hair and a confident, sort of        *

tough demeanor --

-- a few OLDER PEOPLE, and a YOUNG COUPLE.

Mr. Davies directs Kate over to a table with COFFEE and

COOKIES.

Kate stops. Looks around self-consciously.

A SERIES OF short, quick scenes:

Kate sits at her desk grading papers. Kate's hand has an

uncontrollable tremble as she tries to carefully make red

checks on students' papers. Self-consciously, she steadies         *

her right hand with her left.

Kate shovels chocolate chips from the bag into her mouth

while driving.

Kate is at a meeting -- talking to Jenny.                           *

While Kate and Charlie eat dinner, Kate drinks WATER but

focuses on Charlie's glass of WINE and the slow, careful sips

he takes.

Charlie and Owen play video games and LAUGH while Kate tries

to concentrate on a book -- but is clearly distracted by how

loud the guys are.

Charlie sleeps on the other side of the bed as Kate writes in

a notebook. Kate stops writing. She stares at Charlie as he

sleeps.

Kate rides her bicycle hard. It might even be...exercise?

EVERYONE is dressed differently, some people have different

hair-cuts, etc.

Mr. Davies stands up, holding a PLASTIC CASE.

Kate stands up -- she looks way more "together" than she did

earlier. She gives Mr. Davies a hug -- and he hands her a "90

DAY CHIP."

Everyone CLAPS.

Kate sits down next to Jenny and gives her a hug.                 *

Kate -- who eats a piece of CAKE -- sits on a patio with          *

Jenny, Mr. Davies, and several other PEOPLE from AA.              *

Mr. Davies pulls up to Kate's house.

Beat.

Kate jumps back, aghast.

Kate gets out of the car, slams the door shut, then leans in

to say --

Kate lies in bed and appears slightly bored as --

-- Charlie is under the covers, going down on Kate.

Kate smiles and snuggles up into Charlie's arms.

Kate and Charlie drive and listen to MUSIC.

Rochelle LAUGHS as she leads the way. Kate glances at Charlie

-- she already seems slightly annoyed.

Kate and Charlie sit down.

The place is a MESS. Magazines and junkmail everywhere. Too

much furniture thrown together in a chaotic manner. The walls

are covered with framed HEAVY METAL BAND POSTERS -- and there

are ASHTRAYS everywhere, filled to the brim with cigarette

butts.

Rochelle walks in holding a tray with THREE GIN AND TONICS.

Rochelle hands Charlie a glass and then goes to Kate and puts

a drink on the table in front of her.

Rochelle gets up, takes the drink away from Kate, and chugs

it.

A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Charlie, Kate, and Rochelle watch a REALITY TV SHOW -- while

eating...

...MCDONALDS CHEESEBURGERS.                                      *

Rochelle rests her head on Kate's shoulder.

Kate and Charlie wander around Santa's Village --

-- an abandoned Christmas-themed amusement park (with giant

ginger bread houses, plastic Christmas trees, etc.) in the

middle of the woods. Creepy and nostalgic at the same time.

Looks like the set of a Christmas horror film.

Kate holds Charlie's hand as she leads him around.

Charlie seems totally impressed by the weirdness of the

place.

Charlie puts his arms around Kate.

Kate giggles. They kiss. It's sweet.

Kate walks in to her class to find --

-- a GROUP OF TEACHERS -- including Principal Barnes and Mr.

Davies -- standing in the room, which has been decked out for

a --

-- BABY SHOWER.

Kate looks at her desk which is stacked with PRESENTS wrapped

in pink and baby blue wrapping paper. There's also a CAKE.

LATER

Kate opens a present -- a MOBILE.

MONTAGE: Kate opens presents while the teachers CLAP.

Eventually, Kate begins to CRY -- which everyone assumes are

tears of joy.

Principal Barnes takes a bite of cake.

Kate glances at Mr. Davies, who cringes.

Kate walks to her car.

Kate looks back to see Mr. Davies running over -- but she

doesn't reply or slow down.

Kate forces a smile.

Kate stares at a --

-- HALF-EATEN BIRTHDAY CAKE ("OWEN" is still sort of legible)

on the kitchen table. It's totally mutilated.

She walks out the back door into the                            *

BACKYARD                                                        *

where she finds                                                 *

Charlie, Owen, and one of Owen's friends --                     *

-- GREG, 21 --                                                  *

-- listening to loud MUSIC while they play FOOSBALL.            *

They're all SHIT-HOUSED.                                        *

Kate walks out.                                                 *

What's up, Kate?                Hey, Kate.

Kate storms out of the room.                                      *

MOMENTS LATER

Charlie walks in to see Kate getting ready to go to bed.          *

Beat.

Kate doesn't say a word.

Kate stands at the BLACKBOARD -- teaching addition and

subtraction to the class.

A little girl -- ISABEL -- raises her hand.                       *

Kate goes back to the board -- clearly wanting to move on.

The class nods but seems silently freaked out.

Kate sits with Mr. Davies eating lunch.

Kate nods.

Kate half-laughs.

Kate shrugs.

ROOM/KITCHEN/BEDROOM - NIGHT                                   *

Kate and Charlie eat TAKE-OUT FOOD in SILENCE. Kate texts on

her CELL PHONE -- not even paying attention to Charlie.

Kate doesn't answer.

Charlie looks at the floor.

Charlie looks like he immediately regrets what he said.

Kate follows Jenny from her patio to her kitchen as she          *

cleans up.                                                       *

Kate goes into her classroom and finds a NOTE on the desk.

Principal Barnes hugs Kate.

Kate's stunned. Looks like she feels terrible.

Kate sits down.

Kate glumly marches down the stairs -- holding a BOX filled      *

with some of her things (including the BABY SHOWER GIFTS).

Mr. Davies stops her.

Mr. Davies gestures to Kate's crotch.

Mr. Davies awkwardly puts his arm around Kate's shoulder.

Mr. Davies takes Kate's box of things from her.

Kate throws her arms around Mr. Davies and begins to --

-- full-on SOB.

Mr. Davies seems flustered and a little scared but tries to

comfort Kate.

Kate cries as she drives.

She glances in the backseat at --

-- all the baby shower gifts --

-- and sobs even harder.

Kate walks into a near-empty, depressing dive. She nervously

sits at the bar.

The BARTENDER -- a gruff looking guy with the sleeves rolled      *

up -- approaches.

The bartender gives Kate her drink. Kate immediately downs

it.

The bartender takes a long look at Kate -- as though he's

trying to size up if she's insane.

Kate stands up -- almost falling over -- and glares at the

bartender.

Kate goes over to the old man at the end of bar, winks at

him, then picks up his drink and chugs it.

Kate is slumped in the back seat.

In the front seat is Mr. Davies and Jenny.                        *

Silence.

Jenny and Dave glance back at Kate --                          *

-- whose face reveals what a bad state she's in.

Kate gets out of the car.                                      *

Mr. Davies and Jenny watch with concerned expressions as --    *

-- Kate stumbles to her front door.

ROOM/KITCHEN/HALLWAY/BEDROOM - DAY                             *

Charlie plays a VIDEO GAME -- with the TV hooked up through

his STEREO SPEAKERS.

Kate opens the doors and walks in, wobbly.

Kate wears a UNIFORM and carefully works on a CAKE.                 *

On the other side of the kitchen, Jenny makes APPETIZERS.           *

Jenny walks over and tries the icing.                               *

A middle-aged MAN stands at a podium in front of a medium

sized group of PEOPLE -- about twenty-five or so, including

Kate, Jenny, and Mr. Davies -- and says --                          *

Kate hugs everyone -- then blows out ONE CANDLE on a CAKE

before standing at the podium.

Kate glances at Jenny and Mr. Davies.                             *

Kate smiles and steps down from the podium as people CLAP.

Charlie, Owen, and a woman -- MILLIE -- stand at the bar,

drinking BEER and WHISKEY SHOTS. Owen speaks -- but Millie

seems way more into Charlie.

Millie nods.

Charlie rides his BICYCLE down the street. Swerving all over

the place, he's obviously drunk.

Red and Blue LIGHTS flash behind him. Charlie turns to see --

-- a POLICE OFFICER.                                             *

Charlie leaves Kate a VOICEMAIL MESSAGE.

Charlie hangs up the phone.

Kate and Charlie stand by Kate's car, which is parked in

front by the street. She's just arrived. Awkward tension.

Silence. Kate looks Charlie in the eyes and gives him a

slight smile.

Kate and Charlie walk in -- it looks sort of the same, but a

number of items are missing, and it's messier. In general,

the room looks more "dude."

Kate looks at Charlie -- he's half-smiling, not sure if she

finds him funny.

Kate cracks a smile.

Charlie raises his eyebrows.

LATER

Kate's at the stove, cooking bacon and eggs.

Charlie goes to the FRIDGE and gets a BOTTLE OF BEER.

Kate glances at him.

Charlie puts the beer back in the fridge.

LATER

Kate stands by the stove and watches as --

-- Charlie -- who sits at the kitchen table -- wolfs down the

bacon and egg sandwich.

Kate seems pleased that Charlie enjoys it so much.

Kate and Charlie play croquet.                                  *

