FADE UP ON:

TITLE CARD

A narration accompanies this passage: "The events depicted

herein were believed have taken place in Lake Tahoe, Nevada.

All manner of record as they might pertain to these events

have been seized by the Department of Justice"

INT. VAN -- NIGHT

Wall-to-wall surveillance set-up. Two FBI AGENTS: DONALD

CARRUTHERS 30's and RICHARD MESSNER 30's, man the post,

staring at video monitors. Both hold telephoto images; shaky,

long lens shots of a mansion some distance away. Messner

tacks photographs to a corkboard on the van wall. One is

labeled "Subject SIDNEY K. SERNA: UNDERBOSS/Sparazza Family."

The other is labeled "Subject VICTOR "BABY BUZZ" PADICHE

LIEUTENANT/Sparazza Family." Voices begin emitting over the

van's speakers.

Messner rides a digital console, tweaks frequency.

ON THE MONITORS: The image pans, follows a figure moving

behind the mansion's windows, entering a back bedroom.

Messner adjusts the record level, V-U meters spike, modulate.

The figure on the monitors paces the room. WE SEE it's Serna.

Okay, he's gonna clip Israel, I just

gotta outta there--

--he's doing it then, huh--

--yeah, now lemme finish, I was

eavesdroppin', so give me sec, lay

this thing out, since the information

might be a little loose--

--okay, g'head--

So what I heard downstairs there is

that they got a guy, some Swede,

real badass, supposedly a "specialist"

and they're bringing him over. Now

he ain't coming cheap-- so, I'm

thinkin' we jump, do this in the

next day or so, get to Israel before

the Swede can, we got chits, y'see?

We're in a power position. Grab

him, ransom him back, pick up that

nut, we're that much closer to having

our own thing.

--I see that, yeah, s'smart move,

for us anyway.

Trust me, we keep our mouths shut,

go about our thing, play the part,

nobody suspects us.

The old man's on the fade Buzzy,

fuck him, y'know? And that hurts, I

don't like saying that, but hey, our

livelihood, our lifeboat, y'get?

No question, no, you're right. We

gotta do what's good for us now.

Fuckin' A, first survive, yes?

Y'gotta, y'gotta. But d'ya think

they'll kick ransom for that little

prick, assuming we get to'm.

Pause. Feedback. The agents trade looks. Carruthers grabs

a cellphone, dials, patches a feed for the party on the other

end to hear.

SMASH CUT TO CREDITS

The Ace of Hearts, spinning through mid-air, slow motion,

end over end. Bullets blast big sizzling holes through it.

EXT. CASINO -- LAS VEGAS (PAST)

Neon-framed doors fly open as a slicked-back chump with a

store-bought tan strides out onto the strip, swinging underage

bar-bait on each arm. He's all strut and punk swagger,

grinning like a geek who just struck gold.

INT. DRESSING ROOM -- NIGHT (PAST)

A row of chorus girls, gilded like gold-flaked flamingos,

rubbing coca-butter on bare midriffs. THE CAMERA FINDS

Buddy's mother LAVERNE, prominent bulge, seriously pregnant,

she's arguing with her employers, trying to suck in her belly,

yelling "bullshit, you just have to light it right..."

CUT TO SCENE:

INT. CLUB -- NIGHT (PAST)

Second rate dive bar. Laverne Israel assists a pompadour-

maned MAGICIAN on stage. In the lounge, sitting on a

stripper's lap, a young Buddy plays with a deck of cards.

INT.   POOL HALL -- NIGHT (PRESENT DAY)

Bamboo-style ceiling fans circulate cigar smoke and shitty

attitudes. At a billiard table in the back: JACK DUPREE,

40's, third generation Bail Bondsman, talks with HOLLIS

ELMORE, 30's and "PISTOL" PETE DEEKS, 30's, ex-Vegas vice

cops. As Dupree speaks, WE SEE the scenes behind the story:

The magician being brutally beaten-- pelted with poker chips,

kicked in the chops, pissed on, the works.

INT. HOSPITAL -- DAY (PAST)

The Magician, full body cast, taking his meals through a

straw. Young Israel labors over him, performing card tricks.

Buddy, cards and coins dancing off his fingertips, dazzling

sold-out crowds. Laverne Israel sits in the front row, decked

out in ankle-length fur, applauding wildly.

INT. POOL HALL -- NIGHT (PRESENT)

Dupree rounds the table, lines up a shot, leans over it.

Buddy meets mob hierarchy; silk suits and pinkie rings.

Buddy, poolside, glass of top dollar Dom in hand. Chicks,

Coopertone and chasm-deep cleavage abound.

Buddy, tipping a craps table, attacking the stick-man,

stripping off one of his gold chains, going garotte.

INT. POOL HALL

Dupree rips the eight ball, corner pocket.

INT. BRIEFING ROOM -- DAY

WE RECOGNIZE Carruthers and Messner as the two Agents from

the Padiche/Serna surveillance. They are sitting with F.B.I.

Deputy Director STANLEY LOCKE. A debrief is in progress.

SUPER: WASHINGTON, D.C.

A Mafia Family Tree has been erected behind them with a photo

of Primo Sparazza at the top.

FREEMAN HELLER, 20's, clean cut Cornell grad, class of 1937.

He's on a pistol range, scoring perfect marks.

Heller, outdistancing the rest of his recruiting class in a

training run, nearly a mile ahead of the next man.

Heller oversees every aspect of his transformation, radically

altering his appearance, adding different mannerisms, an

accent, etc...befuddled FBI brass can only look on in awe.

EXT. NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE -- NIGHT (PAST)

A '51 Ford Fairlane, flush with an embankment, bullet

perforated, dead-body draped. A top-coated gunman (presumably

Primo Sparazza) stalks the vehicle's sole survivor, FREEMAN

HELLER; faux mafioso, full-time federal agent.

Heller collapses, the gunman looms over, levels a .45, FIRES.

The gunman slinks back to his car as we--

CUT BACK TO:

INT. BRIEFING ROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Locke stands, distributes files.

A PHOTOGRAPH of PRIMO SPARRAZA, sharkskin suit, vintage 60's

coif, posing in front of The Riviera with a dour, pissed-off

Frank Sinatra.

CUT BACK TO SCENE:

Sparazza and Israel, Casino grand opening, flashbulbs burst.

A MONTAGE OF more photo-pos, Buddy Israel posing with mob

power brokers, playmakers...smiling all the way to the top.

Buddy, late-night conspiratorial confab with Sparazza soldier.

CUT BACK TO SCENE:

MONTAGE

Stakeout teams snap photos- plant bugs- wire hidden cameras.

Israel sits with a group of FBI agents, discusses a deal.

Israel is walked out of the room as we CUT BACK TO:

INT. BRIEFING ROOM -- CONTINUOUS

INT. DINER -- NIGHT

Greasy spoon soul food joint, packed lunch counter. Meet

SHARICE WATTERS, 33 and GEORGIA SYKES, 24, Ebony stunners,

ghetto queens, street assassins. They are sitting with their

booking contact, LORENZO WYMAN, 41. He holds up a copy of a

bank telex, sliding it across the table.

Watters takes the telex, gawks, shows the numbers to Sykes.

Watters twirls her long braids, looks over at Sykes.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. BRIEFING ROOM -- DAY

The Feds continue their briefing.

Death personified; sun-cooked skin, black hole eyes, tattoos

gouged out of prison boredom...This is PASQUALE ACOSTA.

Acosta clips car battery cables to the eyelids of a dissident.

FLASH TO: Acosta scorching an off-camera scrotum with a

blowtorch. FLASH TO: Acosta powering up a bore-drill as a

semi-nude man screams and pleads.

CUT BACK TO:

Pasquale; prison cell filthy, feasting on his fingers.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. POOL HALL -- MORNING

Dupree chalks his cue, positions for a shot.

INT. DINNER CLUB -- NIGHT

THE TREMOR BROTHERS pilot a Dodge Barracuda right through

the front window with wrecking ball bravado. Bodies scatter

as the Tremors deploy from the car in full body kevlar, doing

doomsday on the club. One of them fires up a chainsaw,

chewing into the panicked crowd. Bodyguards blast back, but

bullets play like spitballs against the Tremor's body armor.

Shotguns roar-- blast spreads obliterate-- a shitstorm of

blood, spilled booze and busted glass--

EXT. DINNER CLUB -- PARKING LOT -- NIGHT

The blind Tremor, walking wounded, piggybacking his brother

with the bum back, dragging the other by the scruff of his

neck, unconscious across the concrete. Police sirens squeal.

McGarey, the union guy, hairpiece hanging by a thread,

crawling toward his car. The piggyback Tremor brother reaches

into his blind brother's coat, grabs a revolver and unloads.

Long live the teamsters...Not tonight.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. POOL HALL

Dupree chalks his cue.

INT. DINER -- NIGHT

Wyman, Sykes and Watters, back at the greasy spoon.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

Crammed pedestrian crossing, noon hour a trio of SUITS

converse, shrouded by bodyguards.

The party proceeds through the crosswalk, approaching them

is a dark-suited man, expressionless, hands in his pockets.

Others move past; a woman with shopping bags, a skateboard

punk, a geriatric dog-walker and a man, full paralysis, mouth-

op wheelchair, "My Left Foot" palsy.

The bodyguards perk up, sensing something. Dark-Suit,

removing his hands from his pockets-- cellphone...Wrong guy.

The crippled cat, throwing a quilt off his lap, contorted

face vanishing, two Uzi machine-pistols up, safeties off,

triggers pulled-- BAP! BAP! BAP! BAP! BAP! BAP!

The bodyguards get caught napping-- bullets blaze point blank.

The three suits collapse. The phony invalid empties both

guns, hops up from the wheelchair, hooks a passing truck and

flees the scene...that, was LAZLO SOOT.

INT. POOL HALL -- BAR

The boys have retired to the bar for a round of dollar drafts.

Dupree pats himself down, searching for his cigs.

A beat. Dupree blows smoke, flicks ash.

Dupree, stubbing his cigarette.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. DINER -- NIGHT

Watters, nodding, wiping red sauce off her fingers.

Sykes sets her fork down, wipes her hands on a napkin.

INT. BRIEFING ROOM -- DAY

The briefing continues.

MORRIS MECKLEN, 60's, bloated, bad combover, agent to the

Vegas vanguard. He sits at his desk, jawing into the phone.

On the wall, framed photos; Wayne Newton, Buddy Hackett,

Carol Channing and a triple-chinned, near-the-end Elvis.

CUT BACK TO SCENE:

INT. BRIEFING ROOM -- CONTINUOUS

SMASH CUT TO BLACK:

MONTAGE

Over this entire sequence WE HEAR Agent Locke speaking:

The cylinder of a .44 Magnum is popped, a speed-load dropped

in, spun and snapped shut-- Porn mags and crossword puzzle

compendiums are tossed into a carry-on. Morphine and

adrenaline syringes get spiked and capped-- A collection of

wigs, fake sideburns and moustaches get laid out, separated--

Kevlar body armor gets stowed-- An elephant gun gets buffed

to a high shine-- Vintage Ww11 German Potato-Masher hand-

grenades are lovingly wrapped in terry cloth towels.

Torture-tools; curved cutting implements, serrated bone saws,

skull keys, a portable blowtorch, blackened with burned

blood...all packed neatly into a duffel bag--

A gun is aimed, a trigger pulled..."BOOM"

SMASH CUT TO BLACK

FADE UP ON:

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- MORNING

Daybreak. Sunlight streams in, soft suffusion, the color of

good scotch. PRIMO SPARAZZA, 86, lies on a hospital bed, an

O2 mask shrouding deep-set, sunken eyes, cataract-grey, gazing

out at a four-walled world. Someone enters the room, awaiting

approval to approach...Sparazza, turning, seeing the man,

summoning him over with a feeble finger wag. The man reaches

him, kneeling down, ring-kissing reverent, whispering:

Sparazza nods. The man exits. After a moment, the door opens

again...and another MAN enters, walking slowly toward

Sparazza's bedside. He sets down his luggage, a black leather

valise. The travel tags originate in Stockholm:

The Swede has arrived.

FADE TO BLACK

FADE UP ON:

Soaring across the pristine deep blue waters of Lake Tahoe.

Rising, revealing the gaudy, mirrored glass tower of the

NOMAD HOTEL & CASINO. We slowly DISSOLVE TO:

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- NOMAD HOTEL & CASINO -- MORNING

BUDDY ISRAEL, bathrobe, boxers, bags under his eyes. He

absently shuffles cards, pulling aces as if by touch,

telepathy. He gazes out at the snow-packed peaks. Behind

him; post-bacchanalia...the ugly morning after. Prostitutes,

passed out cold in a tangle of crotchless panties and stiletto

heels, lying amongst smashed vodka bottles and ashtrays,

coke-covered tabletops and tipped room service trays. -

Israel, sober now...contemptuous of it all. He starts walking

around them the way you would casualties on a battlefield.

His bathrobe brushes over, terrycloth catching one of the

hooker's wigs, tugging it free. Israel looks down, zooming

in on her scalp, sees dandruff and scars, gags disgust and

disdain. He steps, the wigs pulls. He stops and slips the

bathrobe off, letting it fall rather than pull her wig the

rest of the way off and ruin what illusion remains.

He shuffles, begins dropping Aces on their bodies like dead

enemy soldiers. One of his bodyguards enters; a bulging,

slow-witted, ex-bodybuilder by the name of HUGO CROOP.

A beat. Israel fidgets, twitches, rubs coke residue from his

nose and over his gumline

Hugo looks up, seems confused. Moments pass. Israel, the

patience of a gorilla, crammed into a canary cage.

Hugo, still unsure, speaks in spite of it.

Israel wrist-flicks a playing card, it embeds a sofa cushion

like a ninja throwing star, right next to a beige coat.

Hugo, wary, walking over, inspecting the coat from a distance.

Hugo edges closer, looks down at the coat, squints.

Hugo takes another pull off the Mylanta bottle, moving slowly,

like most morons do, avoiding eye contact at all cost.

Hugo, gameface falling apart...Israel prods him.

Hugo. Long pause.   Big dumb blush.

Hugo, swallowing, pressures on. The phone begins to ring.

Cards dance, Israel's hands moves at lightspeed, he reaches

into Hugo's shirt front and pulls a playing card out...Joker.

The phone rings. Hugo, wobbly, what-to-do...? Buddy fires

all fifty-two cards into his face. The beast barely blinks.

Hugo, furtive look to the floor, all those scattered cards,

then, back to the boss, "should I?"

INT. CAR -- DAY

A cellphone being lifted, revealing Special Agent Carruthers.

He clicks off. Messner occupies the passenger seat, reviewing

surveillance tape, portable headphones on, mini-DAT player

in his lap. He listens to the following excerpt:

Messner pulls the headphones off.

Messner, sets the gear on the floorboard, stretches. He

turns over photographs of Victor Padiche and Sidney Serna.

(the same ones that were tacked to the corkboard of the

surveillance van in the opening)

A slot machine handle gets yanked, rolls, stops, lemon-lemon-

cherry- loser...please deposit coins.

CAMERA MOVES PAST, TRACKING THROUGH:

INT. CHOW SHACK BUFFET -- MORNING

Tahoe's "First and Finest" all seasons Buffet. THE CAMERA

FINDS: A slicker older cat in a Guyabera shirt, mid-fifties,

spotted skin, sun damaged, pocked with pre-cancerous black.

We recognize him from the mugshots and surveillance video:

It's VICTOR PADICHE. Sykes and Watters enter FRAME. Padiche

stands, greeting them, smiling-cigarette-stained-dentures...

Watters scoots in right next to Sykes, gets comfy. Sykes

seems a put off by the proximity, ignores it for the moment.

Watters and Sykes, non-responsive, staring...

Sykes and Watters look at one another, wordless exchange,

then;

Awkward beat, Padiche, head cocked, did I hear that right...?

Watters, shaking her head, correcting him.

The old man blanches, doesn't quite understand the--

Another beat. The girls let him dangle. Watters, lewd sneer,

looks almost lustfully at Sykes as she says the following;

Padiche, recovering, nodding, nervous.

Sykes squirms under Watters lascivious gaze, but manages:

Yet another beat.    Padiche, wanting desperately to contribute.

Padiche, big nod going from one girl to the other, he-get's-

it-but-not-really.

He extends his hand.   WE TRACK IT ACROSS IN C.U. as it meets

with a male hand.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

INT. HOTEL ROOM -- BLACKJACK INN -- MORNING

Dupree and Deeks shaking hands with RUPERT "RIP" REED, mid-

forties, showbiz-slash-mob attorney, low man on the totem at

the Las Vegas based legal firm of "Culpepper Brody & Reed"

Reed and Dupree shake.   Reed glances out in the hall before

closing the door.

Dupree, finding a seat, almost under his breath.

As Elmore appears, Reed almost closes the door on him--

They shake. Dupree shoots a look at Elmore, not pleased.

Elmore, pissy, leans against the wall, arms crossed.

Reed, wound out, worn thin, half drunk-- his bedspread is

papered with writs, summons, notaries, etc: Everything to

make Buddy Israel's return to custody legally binding. He

sits on the edge of the bed, reaching for a pack of smokes

on the nightstand, finding a half empty glass of scotch.

Reed, digging a cigarette out of his pocket.

Dupree smiles, pats Reed on the shoulder, don't-sweat-this...

Reed, white-boy high-five, excruciatingly un-hip. Deeks and

Elmore literally have to look away. Dupree can barely bear

it.

Nobody knows what to make of Reed, as he giggles, nods,

smokes, nods, drinks-- he looks at all of them, a sudden

unexpected wave of enthusiasm seizing him.

Reed begins laughing like a complete fucking loon, like he's

just lost it completely. It's paralyzingly uncomfortable.

Then, just like that, he stops, grabs an envelope.

Reed hands the envelope to a smiling Dupree.

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- DAY

Israel, furious, screaming at an immense black man standing

in front of him: SIR IVY, his steadfast second-in-command:

The presence of a Pimp, the mien of a Mack.

Israel gets up in Ivy's grill. A phone begins to ring.

Hugo rushes for the phone.

Hugo, hand cupped over the phone, butting in.

Israel, walks toward Hugo.

Hug hands the phone to Israel, pulling his own cell, dialing.

Ivy looks around at the collapsed hookers, strewn about the

place, his face registering the appropriate disgust. Then:

Some of the girls start at the sound of Ivy's big Barry White

baritone. They rise, groggy, burping up last night's

debauchery. Mascara-smeared, hangover-hindered the girls

rise as BERNARD "BEANIE" ALFONSE, protector #2, pops in; A

sumo-sized brother with a diamond-studded smile.

Beanie starts herding hookers, Ivy positions himself at the

door, pulls a flashroll, fingers hundred dollar bills.

Israel, phone to his ear, retires to the bedroom for privacy.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Israel throws the lock.

Israel checks the wall clock.

INTERCUT:

INT. PRIVATE PRACTICE -- DAY

DR. GREGORY GILL, 30's, Israel's private physician,

walking/sprinting up a hallway, holding a medical report.

Israel, grave.   Guilt in his silence.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- CONTINUOUS

Ivy and Beanie, marshalling the mass hooker exodus. Ivy

paying the gals as they exit the suite. One YOUNG HOOKER

bringing up the rear, stumbles in her stripper heels, shaky,

tries to take another step, slips, trips, falls-- smacks

face first into a glass coffee table, shattering it.

The other Hookers; gape jawed, mild shock, mild amusement.

Beanie plucks the fallen woman up, shakes her off, straightens

her out, pulls off the offending heels.

The hooker, covered in glass dust, stuck with shards,

teetering, too out of it to care.

CUT BACK TO SCENE

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Israel sweats like a stuck pig, pained, clutching his chest.

Buddy disconnects. Dr. Gill holds for a moment, clicks over

to another line, dials a new number...waits.

Buddy still standing there next to the phone, wincing,

breathing shallow, looking down, rubbing his chest.

He walks over to the bureau, cut lines of coke await him.

He bends, inserts a rolled hundred into his nostril.

He snorts.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- CONTINUOUS

Beanie, trying to assist the ailing hooker. She lurches

suddenly, retching, projectile-vomit dousing Beanie's Versace--

dripping dung-like from his shirt front.

The other hooker's titters turn to outright guffaws. Barf-

girl takes umbrage, hurls her purse at them, rushing into

the herd, throwing haymakers asswild, snatching wigs, sinking

fake nails into skin, snapping them off, Van Helsing style.

The fur flies, a slugfest free-for-all. Ivy intervenes--

Beanie jumps into the fray, separating combatants-- one of

them wielding her pump heel like a pick-axe. Hugo heads

another off hooker, hitting her like a blitzing linebacker.

Israel, who has walked back out, looks on with total disdain

for what he's seeing...Then, he catches his reflection in a

living room mirror, a profound sense of sadness there.

WE PUSH PAST HIM...

In the distance, on the lake, a small boat, a man sitting

inside, gazing up through a pair of binoculars.

INT. "TAHOE SKILLET" RESTAURANT -- MORNING

The Feds occupy a booth, black coffee for both. Carruthers

clicks off a cellphone. Messner is engrossed in a file

clipped with old surveillance photographs of Primo Sparazza.

Messner, turning the file toward Carruthers, pointing.

Messner flips to another part of the file.

Carruthers nods, sips his coffee.

Messner flips the file, finds a page paper-clipped with a

photograph of murder/martyred Federal Agent Freeman Heller.

Messner sits back, kills the remainder of his coffee, gazing

out the window, watching sightseers stream by. Carruthers

glances at his watch.

The waitress arrives with breakfast, sets it down.

F.B.I. BADGE AND IDENTIFICATION

It fills the the frame. An O.S. voice explains:

INT. NOMAD HOTEL AND CASINO -- LOBBY/RECEPTION -- DAY

PULL BACK TO REVEAL: Gerald Diego...aka Pasquale Acosta, aka

"El Estrago" the most notorious torture-murder specialist in

the biz in convincing disguise. His suit, mannerisms and

speech. Pitch Perfect...he's got the fake-Fed bit down cold.

A pimply CASINO EMPLOYEE nods, dashing off to find the boss.

Acosta glances around, takes in the eight-dollar-an-hour

security, the array of quasi-armed guards...and smiles.

Guard uniforms, exactly like those we've just seen, worn by

the Nomad's security staff. Maroon with burnished gold

buttons and brown piping down the slacks. Three separate

vestments laid out across the trunk of a rental car.

CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL:

EXT. PARKING LOT -- OFF THE LAKE -- DAY

Dupree and Deeks in an empty parking lot, bundled up in

windbreakers, battling the frozen spindrift swirling in off

the lake.

Deeks bangs on the hood of the car.

Elmore steps out, moving slowly to the rear of the car.

Elmore leans against the bumper, bored.

Dupree, dubious, does he continue...?   Fine. Fuck it.

--A Plymouth Barracuda passes by, brakes hard, reverses.

The trio stop talking, look over...and then their lives end.

Bad intentions blaze from the driver's side, machine-gun

bursts-- Dupree is hit flush, dead on his feet, his dying

thought, cut comically short; "I had that car in high scho--

Deeks, shredded where he stands, his body absorbing a

fusillade of rounds traveling at twice the speed of sound.

One creases Elmore's skull, another blows out Deeks' back,

fragmenting, claiming three fingers from Elmore's left hand.

The three of them fall in weird, waterlogged flops, no dying

breaths, no death rattles, just lights out...just like that.

Several seconds pass. Then the car door opens and The Tremor

Brothers, like circus clowns, clamber out in a cloud of gun

and reefer smoke. LESTER TREMOR, the dandruff-caked,

pockmarked middle brother is the first out. He shakes off

the cold, yawning, stretching, revealing all manner of tattoo.

The Tremors' youngest brother, the Baby-Huey sized JEEVES

TREMOR bumbles out, pulling at his crotch. He unzips & rips,

baptizing the Cuda's tire with a truly prodigious piss.

DARWIN TREMOR climbs from the car, the eldest brother, straw

boss, brains of the outfit. He looks down at the dead men,

seems saddened by their state. Some remorse maybe? Maybe so.

This exchange prompts Jeeves to turn and urinate on Lester.

Lester squeals war cry, launching a wild windmill barrage on

his behemoth little brother. Jeeves ignores the hydrant-

like urine stream soaking them both and starts swinging back.

Darwin kneels down over the dead Jack Dupree, taking Jack's

face in his hand and squeezing back and forth, adding his

own words in what amounts to a freakish ventriloquist act.

Darwin's eyes begin to well, the tears coming slowly. In the

background, Lester and Jeeves beat e ach other ruthlessly.

Darwin wipes his eyes.

Darwin uses his thumb and forefinger to make it appear as

though Dupree we're smiling up at him.

Darwin smiles back down   at the corpse, wiping his nose on

his sleeve. He reaches    down and pulls out Dupree's wallet.

He spots the bondsman's   license, eyeballs the bail papers:

He sees the name ROBERT   ISRAEL in bold type. Puts it together.

Darwin continues the pat down, pauses, pulls the envelope

with fifty grand inside, fingers fresh bills. With his free

hand he manipulates Dupree's dead mouth one last time.

Darwin, a nod of acknowledgement for the dead Dupree.

Darwin stands, His eyes move to the guard's uniforms, still

laid out across the trunk...he looks over at his two brothers,

Jeeves now with a Lenny-like hammerlock on Lester's head.

INT. NOMAD HOTEL AND CASINO -- LOBBY -- MORNING

Watters is once again on her cellphone to Lorenzo.

Sykes arrives at the reception counter when the elevators

open-- and Israel's Hookers, post-brawl bruised, bloodied

and barefoot, come staggering out.

They slur insults at the security team, broken heels slung

over their shoulders, wigs misaligned, miniskirts mangled.

Sykes trades looks with Watters as if assessing something,

nodding almost imperceptibly to one another. Watters then

winks, something sexual there...it gives Sykes the shivers.

The Hookers are surrounded by a horde of hotel staff and

summarily whisked away. Watters joins Sykes. The WOMAN

behind the counter checking Sykes in, looks up to see Watters.

Watters, a grin.

Sykes looks uneasily at the counter woman, who keeps her

eyes locked on the computer in front of her.

The woman just smiles that monstrously insincere "I'm here

to help!" smile, offering nothing in response.

Sykes, embarrassed, nudging Watters, knock-it-off...

The woman, smile severely strained, the pro-feminist diatribe

falling on decidedly deaf ears. An awkward beat, then;

A mini-bar being opened. A hand reaching in, extracting two

small bottles of Jack Daniels whiskey and a bottle of seltzer.

INT. NOMAD HOTEL ROOM -- LOWER FLOOR

The figure crosses the room, pouring the seltzer onto a towel.

He kneels down, dabbing a spot on the carpet, fresh spill,

deep red, indelible.. The seltzer doesn't bring it up. The

stain remains, smeared now but unmistakable...blood.

The figure stands. In the bathroom behind him, we see a body,

male, late-50's, trussed up, hung by his feet over the tub

and bled out. The figure walks in, takes a Polaroid, turns

it upside down near the man's face and fires off a photo.

He crosses back into the bedroom. The resulting photo is

tucked into the corner of a dresser mirror as it develops.

As the figure sits, WE PAN OVER TO REVEAL:

LAZLO SOOT: world class assassin slash master of disguise.

The slowly developing polaroid depicts the same face that we

now see in the mirror. Soot touches up the putty and plastic

appliances on his face, smoothing, sealing...

He takes up a small micro-cassette recorder, rewinds, pushes

play. A butler's uniform, steamed and pressed, hangs on the

door. He takes it down and begins changing into it.

He glances over at the bed. The dead man's voice crackles

back over the recorder.

Soot, back to the mirror, buttoning his collar, straightening

his cuffs, smoothing out the creases.

Beat. Soot looks down at the Silencer-fitted 9mm pistol lying

on the vanity.

A pause, then:

A muffled gunshot sounds. The recorder abruptly shuts off.

Soot, gazing at his reflection now, rewinds the recorder,

replays, listens, gauging the man's vocal patterns-- rough

Baltic accent, throaty warble, excessive smoke & booze

exposure, tracheal damage. Tough to match. He rehearses one.

He grimaces, grabs cigarettes off the bureau, lights, wails

smokestack, puffing three at once, bellows-like lungfuls--

He grabs an aerosol can from the same bureau, strafes the

back of his throat, pops the tops on the bottles of Jack,

kills them both, gags, sputters, recovers, adjusts himself.

Suddenly, the phone begins to ring. Soot stops, stares.

After another ring, he lifts the receiver,

Hugo Croop's voice booms from the earpiece.

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- NOMAD HOTEL & CASINO -- MORNING

Israel, sequestered to his bedroom, lying on a baby-grand

piano, its legs inexplicably sawed off during the previous

night's hedonism. In his hands, the de riguer deck of cards,

restlessly shuffled and reshuffled...Cocaine has been lovingly

cut and arranged in neat, snortable rows atop the piano.

In the b.g. we see HUGO on the phone to Vitoli/Soot.

INT. FOUR SEASONS HOTEL -- WASHINGTON D.C. -- DAY

Morris Mecklen, sleepless, sweat rings blossoming armpit to

waist. He picks at the plate of room service food in front

of him. A group of Feds and Fed lawyers linger in the b.g.

Mecklen glances back over his shoulder, lowering his voice.

Buddy's rubs his chest-- grimacing-- he lays back on the

piano, hoists a vial of blow, presses a nostril, does a bump.

The Feds are signaling Mecklen back into the main room.

Buddy's head teeters back, bangs on the keys, sour chords,

thinking...thinking...He takes the deck, firing the cards up

in a perfect column above his head, snatching one random out

of the air with his right. He turns it over, looks...Joker.

In the shadows at the far end of the room, tucked into the

midday shadows, Ivy listens as his boss betrays them all...

EXT. TAHOE SKILLET" RESTAURANT -- MORNING

The Feds, heading toward their car, Carruthers snaps his

cellphone shut.

They reach their car.

INT. NOMAD HOTEL AND CASINO -- SECURITY ROOM -- DAY

S.A. Gerald Diego, alias Pasquale Acosta, speaking   with "Bill"

SECURITY SUPERVISOR for the Nomad. Banks of video    monitors

surround them, displaying the various gaming areas   and VIP

floors...two of the screens are completely blacked   out.

The Supervisor nods, dismisses his staff, calls after one.

Acosta waits for the door to close, leaving only himself and

the supervisor in the room.

Acosta laughs, keeps it loose.

The Supervisor, quick to amend.

The Nomad's crack unit, security staffers cum bodyguards:

The casino's version of a SWAT Team: Six ex-cop/military

types-- bowling buddies, brushcuts and potguts-- they carry

Colt .380 autos, religiously kept, strictly range-fired.

CUT BACK TO SCENE:

Vitoli, aka Lazlo Soot, stepping onto a lower-floor elevator,

pushing a service cart tucking the 9mm into his waistband.

CUT BACK TO SCENE:

The Supervisor sputters-- stammers, realizes he just slipped.

The Supervisor makes a big show of the headshake "no...."

Acosta grins, takes a step closer.

The Supervisor...something like suspicion in his eyes. The

secure "hotline" begins to ring. The Supervisor looks over

at the phone, then back at Acosta...the unflappable pro.

Bullshit, but it sounds good.   The Supervisor starts for the

ringing hotline.

Acosta, reaching into his coat.

The Supervisor touches a pass key that he wears on a chain

around his neck as he moves to answer the phone.

--Acosta, coming out of his coat, fake ID in hand, the

supervisor reaching for it and the ringing phone

simultaneously-- suddenly a six-inch, spring-loaded stiletto

blade explodes from Acosta's sleeve, piercing the ID-- pinning

it to the Supervisor's chest.

A surprised grunt from the man as blood begins to pour from

his punctured sternum. The blade retracts. The phone sits

trembling in the Supervisor's hand, --a voice-- Carruther's,

tinny and barely audible, warbles from the other end-

Acosta takes the phone from the stunned Supervisor, replacing

it on the console. The Supervisor, still confused by the

exchange, wanting to speak, but unsure of what to say...He

gazes down to the red blossom fanning across his shirt front.

Acosta pockets his ID as he yanks the pass key off the

Supervisor's neck. His natural accent returns.

The Supervisor's knees begin to buckle, nervous system slowly

shutting down. Acosta steadies him, easing him to the floor.

The Supervisor, unblinking, an almost childlike clarity there.

Acosta, deadpan.

Bill the supervisor almost smiles as he breathes his last

breath...Acosta checks for a pulse, then drags his body toward

a service closet. As he passes one of the video monitors...

...WE SEE ON-SCREEN: The Employee entrance, grave and swing

shifts on their way out, day shift on it's way in. Mixed in

with this personnel rotation, each doing his inconspicuous

best...The Brothers Tremor.

INT. EMPLOYEE ENTRANCE -- DAY

Darwin, Lester and Jeeves, clad in full security attire,

standing apart so as not to appear together, heads down,

hands shoved into their pockets.

Darwin bird-dogs both his brothers, monitoring their movement,

using hand signals and some bizarre inbred semaphore to

communicate with them. They pass through and punch in,

signing time sheets. The surrounding security staff oblivious

to the new faces. The brothers enter the lower floors, moving

through the hotel's fitness center and indoor pool.

A kid does a cannonball as they pass as we...

A clouded bog-- coming to-- consciousness, then, retching,

gagged gasps, throat ablaze with bile, liquid clearing

convulsed lungs, breath in burning spasms-- not enough air.

EXT. LAKE --DAY

Elmore sits up in the sub-zero shallows of Lake Tahoe with a

start, stripped naked, shaking uncontrollably, his skin a

deep bruised blue. Dull pain quickly defines-- pinpoints,

bores in, bone deep...Death can't hurt this much.

He gets his breathing under control, the onset of hypothermia

turning his fingertips black-- his left hand, lighter three

digits-- he looks, comprehension sparks but can't catch-- he

stares impassively at the ragged space, for the moment, he

doesn't seem to mind their absence. He gropes the side of

his head, bullet-graze, blood congealed by the cold, the

concussion he suffered has left a massive migraine behind.

He crawls from the water, muscles cramping, knotting up. He

reaches the sand, unable to pull himself up any further. He

turns back, sees the bodies of Deeks and Dupree, face down,

the lazy lake tide gently lifting and lowering them...

INT. CAR -- DAY

Carruthers and Messner, hectic, speeding through the south

shore of Lake Tahoe, cellphones pinned to their ears.

Messner, nodding as he listens.

Messner clicks over, the deputies voice fills the car.

Messner and Carruthers trade looks.

Carruthers mashes the floorboard, brakes smoke, power swerve,

slicing the rented Taurus across four lanes of traffic.

Messner clicks off.

Carruthers pushes 110mph, barreling toward the Nomad, blowing

through traffic-- Both men pull out IFB/earpiece apparatus,

plugging in, checking their signals.

Carruthers pulls a .45 from his holster, driving with his

knees now, he jacks the slide, checks for a chambered round.

The slide releases--

INT. NOMAD HOTEL SUITE -- DAY

Sykes, stowing a Glock 9mm, tweaking the earpiece/mic combo

she's wearing-- getting primped, leather mini-skirt, lace

garters, thigh-high platform boots; hooker de coutage.

Sykes pulls her earpiece, adjusts something, re-inserts it.

WHIP PAN TRANSITION TO:

INT. HORIZON HOTEL AND CASINO -- SAME

The Hotel just across the street from the Nomad. Watters on

a headset, talking to Sykes, looking out the window.

On a room service tray near Watters; scanners monitor calls

and in-house transmissions within The Nomad.

Watters adjusts one of the scanners, searching for a signal.

INTERCUT BETWEEN THE TWO

Sykes checks her reflection, makes sure her holsters aren't

peeking out, weapons adequately conformed to her curves.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

A .50 Caliber sniper-rifle on a tri-pod, jutting just past

the window, zeroed ut on the Penthouse level of the Nomad.

Watters puts her eye to the scope, scans, finds SYKES in

the crosshairs across the way, adjusting her outfit. Watters

settles on her, watches...something vaguely creepy about

this bit of voyeurism. She nuzzles the Barrett close.

Sykes grimaces.    Watters sees it, smiles to herself.

Sykes says nothing for a moment, Watters just watches her

through the crosshairs, her finger idly flicking the trigger

in a strangely perverse gesture. Finally:

Watters spots something outside, grabs a pair of binoculars,

looks down...BINOCULARS P.O.V.: Four obvious CALL GIRLS

disembarking a taxi, mylar-colored micro-minis, fuck-me heels,

cheap shoulder bags. They smoke, laugh, chit-chat.

Sykes, grabbing her bag, dropping spare clips inside and

starting for the door.

Watters loads a red-tipped round into the breach of the Fifty.

SNAP ZOOM ON BULLET as she slams the action forward, loading

the round WE SMASH CUT TO BLACK.

...Dial tones over black.   A phone rings. A voice answers.

FADE UP ON:

A reel-to-reel machine activates, begins to record-- A sticker

on the pick-up spool reads: "PROPERTY OF THE F.B.I."

MONTAGE

The players take their places. Over these images WE HEAR:

Vitoli, aka Lazlo Soot: arriving at the Penthouse level,

exchanging nods with the security team, pushing his service

cart out of the elevator and down the hall, through a metal

detector, which goes off. Vitoli/Soot shrugs, gestures to

his stainless steel cart. The security team wave him through.

Pasquale Acosta: Now wearing the nametag of "Bill" the

recently deceased Security Supervisor. He buttons his red

blazer, hanging the penthouse pass key around his neck as he

moves through the lobby, carrying a small briefcase.

The Tremor Brothers: Duffel bags straining with the horrible,

shit inside. They move toward a service elevator, swapping

pill bottles, downing overdose amounts, repeating "Mein Kampf"

recitations as they push the elevator's call button.

Hollis Elmore: Frantically ringing the alley delivery doorbell

of a local Souvenir Shop-- naked, frozen, delirious, near-

death, he has dragged himself there.

Agent Messner: Watching as the bodies of Dupree and Deeks

are hauled from the lake by Sheriff's personnel. He walks

the shoreline, searching for clues, on his cellphone, trying

to reach Security at the Nomad.

Agent Carruthers: Plugging in his headset as he reaches the

front of the Nomad, leaping out, rushing inside, holstering

his gun for the moment.

Georgia Sykes; Pulling a small revolver from her garter-

holster, annoyed, rubbing the chaffed area, reaching the

elevator, leaning back against the wall, waiting.

Sharice Watters; Her eye going to the rifle-scope...she makes

subtle adjustments to the targeting-ring-- P.O.V. -- Israel's

penthouse sits in the crosshairs. We see a figure, just

beyond the glass...a shimmering shape, moving within.

Watters tracks the figure-- finger finding the trigger as we

SMASH CUT TO:

BLACK

FADE UP ON:

CAMERA DOLLIES IN ON -- Primo Sparazza, bedridden, blinking

at the nothingness around him...a life on its last legs...a

dying man determined to outlive his last enemy...Buddy Israel.

FADE IN UP ON:

FBI   Director Locke, receiving a CONFIDENTIAL package, signing

for   it, tearing it open, reviewing the paperwork inside.

The   color drains from his face, casting him cadaver-like.

His   phone rings, he quickly snatches up the receiver.

Locke is cut off sharply, listens...as he does, he pulls his

personal Primo Sparazza file from a separate pile, flips

through, Finds a sheet, extracts it...it's a copy of the

paternity suit, brought against Sparazza in 1967. He reads...

EXT. TAHOE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT -- DAY

A learjet touches down. THE CAMERA TRACKS, FINDING: Dr.

Gill, at a payphone, the cacophonous racket of taxiing

aircraft forcing him to repeat every other sentence.

Gill looks around.

P.O.V. -- CAMERA PANS AROUND WITH HIM...

...AS WE FIND:

EXT. TAHOE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT -- TARMAC -- SAME

A learjet unloading passengers-- The Swede steps down off

the plane, dressed as we last saw him, carrying the same

black leather valise. He's accompanied by two Sparazza thugs

who quickly escort him to an awaiting car.

The Swede looks over, sees Gill at the payphone...The two

seem to acknowledge one another as the Swede quickly climbs

into the car and closes the door--

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- DAY

A door opens-- revealing Vitoli the butler, aka Lazlo Soot,

standing behind it. He's with one of the SECURITY TEAM

MEMBERS; waxed mustache, polo-shirt, gut sucked in.

Beanie, glaring at both of them.

Mustache nods. Beanie slams the door on him. Soot, inside

now, scanning, making split- second evaluations-- what's-

where, who's-where, he picks up voices from the master bedroom--

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- MASTER BEDROOM -- DAY

Clothing everywhere. Israel's top dollar wardrobe, designer

suits, wadded up into balls and stuffed into a garment bag.

He's doing more cocaine, talking to himself, babbling the

classic addict's "don't-worry-it'll-to-be-alright" monologue.

Ivy, his menace gone malignant, quietly stepping out of the

shadows...Israel has no idea that he's been there all along.

Ivy doesn't budge, just stands there, staring hard.

Israel stiffens, board-straight, the guilt goosing him. Ivy

turns the burners slow.

Israel almost chokes on his own smile, nodding.

Israel starts zipping up some of his bags.

Ivy unbuttons his coat. A .50 Cal rides in his shoulder-rig.

Israel averts his eyes. Ivy lets the moment load up...then;

Israel, unnerved now-- spots a small handgun sticking out of

his bag. He covers it with the bedspread, looking up at Ivy.

INT. NOMAD HOTEL AND CASINO -- LOBBY -- SAME

Carruthers, bracing the same Casino Employee Acosta braced

earlier. College kid, patch-acne, panic-stricken, stammering,

struggling, a phone stuck to his hand--

The kid's skittish gaze shifts, locking on a figure moving

through the lobby.

Carruthers breaks off, moving for the man in the maroon jacket

heading toward the elevator. He reaches him, puts a hand on

his shoulder.

The man turns...His nametag reads "Bill."

Carruthers badges him.

Acosta has fully assumed the identity of the murdered security

supervisor. The pimply kid at counter eyeballs him, confused.

Acosta steps behind Carruthers, blocking himself from view.

Carruthers leads him toward an awaiting elevator.

They step into the lift.

The elevator doors close behind them as we...

Elevator doors open to reveal: The Tremor Brothers, vibrating

at varying speeds, pharmaceutical stares, simultaneously

sharp and dull. Georgia Sykes stares back, bad vibes trickle

up her back. She holds a moment. Doesn't board.

Darwin looks her over, lecherous grin.

He mimics a blowjob, treating her like the hooker he thinks

she is. Sykes wants to shoot him in the face. Lester and

Jeeves oogle her as the doors begin to close.

Darwin smiles wide and lewd. Sykes kisses her middle finger.

Darwin's smile turns scowl as the elevator doors slide shut.

Watters grabs her binoculars; sees the four prostitutes snub

cigarette butts and start to head inside.

Sykes waits a beat, then reaches for the call button to signal

another car. WE FOLLOW HER FINGER to the "up" button and--

A blackened fingertip, trembling, barely enough force behind

it to hold a delivery bell button down.

EXT. "LAKEY'S SOUVENIR SHOPPE" -- DAY

Hollis Elmore, hypothermia-ravaged, racked by seismic-like

seizures, body temperature terminally low. The delivery

door is flung open and A KID of about twelve stands there;

cross-eyed, coke-bottle eyeglasses, shirtless, wearing a

rising-sun head-wrap and karate Gee. He says nothing.

--Elmore collapses-- consciousness strains, snaps-- he blacks

out as his jaw collides with the concrete--

--As Dupree's bagged corpse is hefted onto a coroner's gurney

and wheeled into an awaiting ambulance. Deeks' body follows.

EXT. LAKESIDE -- DAY

The parking lot teems with local news trucks. Passerby's

crowd the police line. Messner is on his cellphone, incensed,

confused. A Sheriff's DEPUTY flanks him.

One of the Crime Scene Recovery TEAM MEMBERS approaches,

hands Messner a printout. A faxed, blown up rendering of a

Nevada Driver's license...We recognize the face.

The CS Team Member holds an evidence bag aloft.

Messner takes the bag, gawks, can't quite make out the

contents.

--Commotion close, Sheriff's task force members, hustling

past, hopping into cruisers, firing their sirens. A fifty-

something TASK FORCE CHIEF approaches Messner.

INT. PARKING STRUCTURE -- NOMAD HOTEL -- SAME

A crime scene unit already has the area cordoned off. Police

photographers circle the rental car snapping pictures as

uniformed units scribble license plate and VIN numbers.

CAMERA PANS OVER TO REVEAL:

A limo arrives, the Swede disembarks, black valise in tow.

A group of Sparazza henchmen surround him, spiriting him

toward a nearby stairwell, anxious to avoid the police.

CAM CONTINUES PAN TO REVEAL:

Doc Gill and Hugo, sitting in their car, a little leery at

the heavy police presence. Hugo takes up his cellphone.

Gill shakes his head "no" as Hugo dials. Gill retrieves his

own phone as he climbs out, dialing, moving to the trunk.

He clicks off, Hugo is completely unaware of the call he

just made. Gill pops the trunk, removing his medical bag

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- SAME

The phone rings, Beanie moves to answer it, tossing his balled

up Versace shirt to Soot/Vitoli.

Soot nods, unfurls a laundry tote, sticks the shirt inside,

hand moving within the bag--

--Beanie, turning, reaching down for the ringing phone when--

THWAP-- something plunks him hard from behind-- he's knocked

forward by the force of the impact-- startled-- instinctively

slapping at that area-- thinking something stung him.

He looks around, alarmed, head on a swivel, hand probing the

pain, not aware of the blood coursing from that spot,

streaming down his back...The phone continues to ring.

Then Beanie hears the small metallic warble of something

rolling around on the floor behind him, gradually settling.

A sensation overtakes him...and he grows very still with it.

He looks down at his hand for the first time...sees blood

there, reaches up with that same hand and finds the tattered

hole right above the base of his spine-- small wisps of smoke

drifting up out of the wound...He turns, numb...and sees

what looks like a spent shell casing, just ejected, coming

to rest on the tile...The phone continues to ring.

His eyes track upward to Vitoli the Butler, holding a silenced

9mm-- aim still held...And that's when it dawns on Beanie...

...He's just been shot in the head.

Three more soundless shots from the 9mm put a humane end to

these proceedings-- blowing Beanie's body over a sofa chair.

His three-hundred plus pound frame slides to an unceremonious

halt in the remnants of the shattered coffee table.

Israel's calf-skin coat lies near Beanies dead body, a pool

of blood surrounding it, soaking through and all the while...

The phone continues to ring.

INT. BEDROOM -- SAME

Ivy and Israel, oblivious to what's gone on, fifty feet away.

Israel looks from the ringing phone-- to the gun in his bag--

no good-- Ivy will kill him before he clears the bedspread.

Ivy lets that .50 caliber hang like intimidation itself.

Israel looks over at the ringing phone, then back at Ivy.

He slowly withdraws the deck of cards from his robe pocket,

begins shuffling at lightspeed, firing them across his body,

left to right, right to left.

He does, snatching a card cold from the deck, turning it to

Ivy.

Israel, a card slipping from his sleeve, into his throwing

hand...Ace Of Spades. He keeps it cupped.

INT. LEARJET -- DAY

Locke, inbound to Tahoe with a detachment of D.C. Agents

accompanying him. He's examining contents from the

confidential package he received earlier: PHOTOS of a post-

op Primo Sparazza, plastic surgery shrink-wrapped, his face

swollen and deformed, dozens of photos, dozens of dates.

He scans the surgical reports, specific sentences and words

pop: "MALIOFACIAL DISORDER" "DEGENERATIVE BONE DISEASE"

"BULLET FRAGMENTS" He keeps reading...

INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME

"Bill" aka Pasquale Acosta, hitting a walkie-talkie against

his leg, checking for a signal-- faking the whole affair.

Carruthers, behind him in the elevator, checking his cellphone--

Carruthers, annoyed, stowing his cellphone.

Carruthers, absent nods, anxious. Acosta/Bill, back to

futzing with his walkie-talkie-- going so far as to remove

the battery-- --And that's when Carruthers sees it...Bill's

fingers, flesh mottled at the tips, horribly scarred over--

--something clicks --memories fire --photostrobic...

FLASH CUT TO:

The briefing in D.C., Supervisor Locke--

CUT BACK TO SCENE:

Carruthers' expression goes black...

Carruthers stares at those fingers, backs against the wall,

hand moving slowly toward his waist-- suspicions pique.

Carruthers unclips his belt holster.

Acosta...sensing it...keeping his back turned.

Carruthers gets a hand on the stock of the .45 on his hip.

A long, drawn silence...then, static emits from Bill/Acosta's

belt-- his walkie-talkie was working all along. Jig's up.

Acosta spins back-- spring-loaded blade firing from his sleeve--

Carruthers clears his holster-- Acosta closes the gap-- blade

flashing, passing through Carruthers' hand, slashing tendons,

shearing bone, hot butter.--

Carruthers screams-- grip gone, gun tumbling-- instinct kicks--

his good left hand hauls the .45 out of mid-air, clutches,

squeezes-- BLAM! Acosta's abdomen eats the blast, burps

blood-- Carruthers, a severed hand tucked under his chin,

held in place-- he extends, pulls, fires again-- Ricochets

clip overhead fluorescents, fixtures catch strays-- shatter--

glass filament explodes-- razor slivers rain down.

Acosta, struck, slumping-- a silver automatic appearing from

his other sleeve, trigger finding finger just as the last of

the lights flicker and die-- A beat sustained-- just hard

breathing and fluid hitting the floor-- Everything goes stiff--

--the two take silent aim in the pitch black and fire

simultaneously, blazing away-- emptying their weapons into

each other from inside three feet-- Gunblasts illuminate

ghoulish features, muted screams covered in gore...

INT. NOMAD HOTEL -- UPPER FLOOR -- SAME

Georgia Sykes, concerned, finger to her ear, picking up

something off her IFB earpiece: Muted gunshots, static-

scrambled ...it's the sound of Carruthers and Acosta, ending

one another's lives in the lift below...

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME

Watters sweeps the penthouse level with her rifle scope.

Watters hears something crackle over one of the scanners...

a transmission to Nomad security staff...

Sykes looks up to see the elevator has reached her floor.

Sykes looks at the elevator doors in front of her as we...

INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME

The Tremor Brothers, waiting arrival on the penthouse, armed

to the teeth, each one tethered with an array of pistols,

rifles, knives, hatchets, hacksaws; the tools of their trade;

to be implemented in the most godless manner imaginable.

Muzak drifts in over the speakers, when suddenly the car

lurches, cables catch, brake boxes shriek and the elevator

car comes to abrupt stop. The Brothers exchange looks as

power is cut and they are plunged into darkness...An emergency

recording sounds from the elevator's ceiling speaker.

The recording defaults into a maddening loop...then, the

sounds of someone unzipping a bag in the dark, hands moving

objects around, metal clanks off metal as the bag is rummaged.

A brilliant flash, hot white to iridescent red as a road

flare is struck, showering Darwin Tremor with a deluge of

sparks as he holds it aloft.

Lester and Jeeves, effortless aplomb; the speed and dexterity

of a seasoned pit-crew. Lester pulls a torque wrench from

the bag, pops the panel bolts on the elevator's power box

and strips the electrical wiring in seconds--

Jeeves removes a gas-powered generator from their Mary Poppins-

like carry-all carpet bag. He primes the pump, yanks it to

a sputtering start and feeds the AC lead to his brother.

Lester takes it, locates the service override conduit and

ties in. Darwin admires this deft display of skill from his

idiot brethren. As the elevator's power cycles back on we...

INT. BATHROOM -- DAY

Light switch flipped on, revealing the shrunken, shriveled,

fetal-like form that is Hollis Elmore being carried by MARGIE

TURLOCK, 63, part-time RN, full-time souvenir shop owner. A

substantial, tank of a woman, Margie manhandles Elmore,

dropping him into a lukewarm bath, brimming with grey water.

Warren sniffs, licks lovingly on an ice cream sandwich, but

never bites it.

Margie indulges her grandson, no end.

--Warren begins to smile, a snarl of misshapen yellow teeth,

smeared with chocolate, bracketed by chrome-colored braces.

Warren puts the ice cream sandwich in his mouth and begins

hopping up and down, kicking, striking the wall with great,

disturbing ferocity. Margie cackles at this.

Elmore, struggling against imminent death, watching this

display with increasing dread. He scans the sink basin--

sees it lined with anti-depressants; Ritalin, Thorazine, etc

Warren keeps throwing hard roundhouse kicks into the wall.

Margie marches off and Warren immediately rushes over to

the tub, placing himself directly over the inert Elmore and

assuming a martial arts stance. He opens his mouth to speak

and the ice cream sandwich tumbles out, landing in the tub.

Warren bows before he squares up and begins methodically

delivering a "Kata" of punches and kicks...violently and

expertly snapped within millimeters of Elmore's face. Elmore,

helpless to raise his arms or defend himself, stares in horror

as the boy, his glasses beginning to fog and drip with

perspiration, works himself into a furious lather.

Elmore holds up his stump   of a hand,   pinky wagging in pathetic

plea-- no use-- Warren is   in a state   of unhinged, near-animal

frenzy-- his eyes wild, a   small, yet   prominent erection

beginning to poke through   his karate   gee...

Margie returns to the bathroom, scolds her grandson.    He

squares up on her, feigning a blow to her face. She     clouts

him, hard backhand, big flabby arms restraining him,    hauling

him out of the bathroom. He bleats like a butchered     sheep.

Elmore, left alone, stark naked, shaking-- he turns his head,

gazing into the other room-- a newscast plays on the

television: A Reporter, lakeside, via live feed...standing

in the same parking lot where Deeks and Dupree were killed.

TELEVISION SCREEN

We slowly DOLLY BACK, revealing a different room.

INT. HOTEL ROOM -- BLACKJACK INN -- SAME

Rupert Reed, shit-faced off belts of straight scotch, a stack

of shot-glasses on his chest, gaped-jawed at the television.

Reed lurches up, going for the phone, shot-glasses scattering,

scotch bottle upending, bouncing off the bed.

TELEVISION SCREEN

We slowly DOLLY IN now.

INT. GAMBLER'S RAMBLE HOTEL -- SAME

Victor Padiche, playing solitaire, one card frozen in his

hand as he watches the news.

INT. NOMAD HOTEL & CASINO -- PARKING STRUCTURE -- DAY

Agent Messner arrives, flanked by shotgun-toting Sheriff's

deputies, local cops and Bureau field agents. They deploy,

cordoning off the scene, taking control.

WE SEE Hugo and Doc Gill, ducking down, Hugo still has the

phone to his ear. As they approach a rear stairwell with a

door that reads: "AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY: PENTHOUSE LEVEL"

two FEDS descend, chaining and bolting the door.

INT. NOMAD HOTEL -- PENTHOUSE -- SAME

The phone is still ringing as Soot, Browning 9mm at his side,

stalks the voices coming from the master bedroom

INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- SAME

Ivy, fingers brushing his gun grip, stares Israel down.

Israel readies the playing card behind his back, slips it

between his index and middle finger-- Ivy shakes his head.

--Israel steps hard, slinging the Ace sidearm, sailing it

toward Ivy, surgical strike, right eye, blood bursting at

his browline-- Ivy goes down in a heap.

Ivy, doubled over-- he drags the .50 cal from its holster

and lets fly-- FIRING. Big bore rounds rip right through

the wall, punching dinner-plate sized holes in the plaster.

Israel goes to the ground as Ivy, bleeding, blazes away--

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- ANTEROOM -- SAME

--Soot takes cover as bullets whistle by-- he tucks the 9mm

away just as the doors to the suite are blitzed and the

security team stumbles in, guns drawn, grouped tight--

They assume quasi-combat stances; six idiots, crab-crawling

their way across the room. Soot stays prone, plays scared,

realizes that his rubber appliance nose has come loose, tries

to adjust it-- can't, has to hide his face, burying it in

his sleeve, wiping more make-up off in the process--

Mustache is on point, pistol trained.    He spots Soot cowering.

Soot shakes his head a vigorous "no" as Mustache and his men

turn their attention to the bedroom.

Mustache and his men round the corner into the master bedroom.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- SAME

Ivy, down on one knee, depth perception shot, trying to

reload, bullets slipping through blood-slicked fingers--

Israel lies on the floor behind the bed, breathless, chest

heaving, frantically trying to pull the small automatic pistol

out of his overnight bag.

One of the bodyguards spots the body of Beanie, lying dead

in the remnants of the coffee table.

Ivy hears this, let's the gun slide from his hand, standing,

eye swollen to a bleeding slit.

Ivy, looking past them, seeing Beanie's lifeless body, laying

there. Israel peers out, sees the same thing.

Two of the bodyguards rush to Beanie, bending over his body,

checking for vitals. Ivy, suspended in the doorway, stunned.

One of the security team looks back; no good...he's gone.

Just then, the phone stops ringing.

Ivy, shocked, dismayed. Israel, starting to see his sweetheart

deal with the Feds go up in smoke. He immediately mobilizes.

Soot, from the other room, careful to keep his face concealed.

Israel, a grimace...two too many people involved. Israel

nods, thinking, does a bump of coke, right out in the open.

Soot nods.

Mustache, glancing over at Soot, seeing him nod.

Mustache and his men brace Ivy, taking advantage of his

disorientation and dismay and swiftly escorting him out.

EXT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME

They amass around the elevator, taking care to double handcuff

Ivy now. Mustache pushes the call button. It fails to light.

INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME

Choked with generator and road flare smoke, lit like hell

itself. The Tremors stand at arms, shrouded in a miasmic

mung of horribly toxic fumes, filling their lungs with it.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. HALLWAY -- SAME

Mustache hits the call button again, still nothing.   Yet

one of the lifts appears to be ascending

He keeps hitting the call button, but it won't light.

INT. HALLWAY -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME

Sykes, trying to pry the elevator doors open.

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME

Watters pours herself a glass of Chablis from the mini-bar.

Sykes, getting some separation on the elevator doors, pulling

her 9mm, using it like a crowbar.

Sykes, struggling, when the doors suddenly retract on their

own...She's staggered by what she sees in the elevator,

tripping back, heels catching, dumping her on her ass--

She sits up, stupefied...cordite and pistol smoke drift out

of the open elevator doors like a funeral dirge. The sound

of a bone-saw emanates from within.

INT. ELEVATOR CAR

Carruthers and Acosta...wartorn, shot to hell, post-battle

standoff, just staring, weapons emptied, bodies bullet-

punctured, leaking life...both are breathing, but just barely.

Filament and glass dust cover everything. Blood streams in

steaming fissures, floating spent shell casings and

fluorescent shards cover the floor of the car.

Acosta, clinging to life itself, clutching the whirring bone

saw, trying in vain to reach Carruthers. Sykes wades forward,

wary, Glock vise-gripped.

Sykes, glancing from Carruthers to Acosta. A beat.

INT. "LAKEY'S SOUVENIR SHOPPE" -- KITCHENETTE -- DAY

Elmore, seated, wrapped in quilts and heated blankets,

shivering horribly, lips blackened, flexing brittle fingers

on his good hand, trying to restore feeling, teeth clattering

like ten thousand tea cups. Margie Turlock enters, arms

loaded down, grandson Warren hot on her heels, a set of

Nunchukas under his arm...

...Elmore, palpable hatred, pure bile for the boy.

Margie sets the assortment of goods down on the table in

front of Elmore; tourist-themed hats & sweatsuits from the

shop, a pair of thermals, a collection of pill bottles and

what appears to be an old Vietnam-era ammo box.

Elmore nods, rifling the pile in front of him, going for the

pills. Margie pulls a pot of coffee off the stove, pours a

mug. Sets it down in front of him.

Elmore eyes the labels; Vicodin, Vioxx...morphine-based.

Nice...Just numb it all.

Warren sits in the chair next to Elmore and begins mimicking

him, shaking epileptically, doing his doofus bit, tucking

three fingers away, waving a stump, belly-laughing...

Warren scowls, getting up, in super-slow motion, making sounds

with his mouth as he stands, robotic whirs, buzzes, clicks--

Margie chuckles at her grandson, she can't help it--

Then, in a blur, Warren snaps, abruptly slamming the nunchakas

on the table, the rebounding portion of the weapon almost

hitting Elmore in the face. He bolts the room before Grandma

can scold him, his titters echoing off like taunts...

Margie, cackling again-- the facade of sanity showing serious

signs of strain...Elmore pulls the ammo box across the table.

Stenciled on the side: "177th Airborne Division -- Charlie

Company - Reckon" He cracks the lid.

Inside, army memorabilia and bric-a-brac; patches, service-

tags, dog-earred b&w polaroids, ancient titty mags, (which

make Margie horribly uncomfortable) Saigon bottled beer and

most importantly, a .357 Colt Python.

Elmore lifts it, looks it over, feels the heft, drops the

chamber-- it's loaded. He sifts some more, palms loose bullets

at the bottom of the box. He cracks a blackened grin, rolling

the pistol's chamber and snapping it shut as we...

A padlock being locked and secured.

CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL:

INT. NOMAD HOTEL -- LOBBY

Elevators and access doors locked down indefinitely. Casino

and hotel patrons file out in less than orderly fashion.

Craps players, pissed that their "hot streaks" have been cut

short, harangue police and sheriff's personnel in passing.

Barflys and blackjack habituates, accustomed to staying in

one spot for months on end, have to be manually removed.

The four call girls, trying to argue their way past security

and onto one of the elevators, realizing they're not getting

anywhere near the Penthouse level. Messner coordinates the

Nomad's exodus, continually adjusting his earpiece, trying

to contact Carruthers, two agents flank him.

The pimply Casino Employee is at the center of an intensive

on-spot interrogation being conducted by a group of agents.

Messner arrives, stares at the kid.

The kid, head bobbing, gnawing fingernails, cuticles mangled.

Messner stops cold.

Messner turns, bores in on the kid, no more bullshit now.

The kid glances around, oops-- my mistake-- tries to amend.

Messner turns on his heels, the other agents tag along.

As they move past the group of call girls, still arguing

with security as we...

INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE -- SAME

Israel, sickly, face bloodless, sitting down on a couch,

setting the small handgun down on the table next to him. He

digs at his chest now, in considerable pain, rotating his

arm around, trying to rouse it.

Israel gazes at Beanie's body, trying to figure out an

appropriate course of action.

He takes out his cellphone, dialing Morris Mecklen. Soot

appears behind him, easing the 9mm out of his waistband and

resuming his stalk...ever...so...slowly.

INT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME

Israel's security crew, surrounding a still-stunned Sir Ivy,

waiting on the lift. One of the elevators approaches. The

rest appear to be down.

Suddenly, the stairwell doors are flung open, revealing Hugo

and Gill. All guns whip simultaneously to that spot.

Hugo, thunderstruck.

Ivy, ashamed, not looking up.

INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME

Sykes, holding Carruthers' FBI credentials after patting him

down. She doesn't notice that power has been restored to the

elevator.

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME

Watters, trying to listen to Sykes, but concerned by the

sudden surge of activity from the police scanners.

INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR

Sykes, pocketing the Carruthers ID. Behind her, Acosta

manages to move enough to cover the "Bill" ID on his jacket.

Sykes turns back to him, moving over to his now still form--

blood drenched, barely conscious, eyes flittering like black

flies...she kicks the bone saw from his hand. It spins to a

gradual stop. She leans over him...the stiletto blade he

used to dispatch "Bill" and hack Carruthers digits off has

retracted back into his sleeve.

Sykes begins patting him down, moving dangerously close to

that sleeve, her neck hovering right above that spot--

She pulls Acosta's bogus ID...Gerald Diego: Federal Bureau

of Investigation.

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME

Watters shaking her head, monitoring scanner transmissions.

INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME

Messner, having commandeered an elevator-- his IFB earpiece

picking up interference-- distorted crosstalk, some sync of

some kind, voices, clipped, delineating, spiked with static:

Messner, finger in his ear now, listening hard, hand up,

quieting the rest of the car.

As the car rises past the fourteenth floor, the signal

sharpens, crystallizes less than a second--

Messner reacts--

INT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME

The Elevator arrives with a "ding!" Mustache and his men

wait for the doors to open...heavy black smoke begins to

slowly seep through the cracks, rolling up and along the

walls, unfurling finger-like across the ceiling. From within

the elevator car itself, a pull engine sputters to a stall...

A HEART BEGINS TO BEAT OVER THE SOUNDTRACK. A steady thrum,

building slowly...

INT. PENTHOUSE APARTMENT -- SAME

Israel on the phone, consumed by chest spasms. Soot, his

Vitoli visage now mangled beyond recognition; nose sheared

off, rubber chin and jaw prosthesis. He throws back the

tablecloth covering his service tray, takes an igloo cooler

off ice inside, pulls surgical tools from it-- scalpel,

forceps rib-spreader, etc., He arranges them pre-op style.

He removes a phone from his jacket, hits "Send" waits, says:

He reaches Israel, leveling the 9mm to his skull. Israel is

completely unaware as he clutches his chest, breath coming

in great laborious gulps. He's on the phone to Mecklen.

INTERCUT

The doors to the suite open and in stride Hugo and Doc Gill.

Soot, gun raised, watches as both men look up and meet his

gaze.

...Nobody moves.

THE HEARTBEAT CONTINUES.   Quickening...

Hugo, a guarded step forward, squinting.

Israel turns back, sees this demented version of Vitoli aiming

at gun right in his face. Israel's breathing suddenly cinches

up tight, his pulse triple-timing. He turns back to Gill.

Hugo takes a step away from Gill, alarmed, his hand inch-

worming toward the gun on his waist...WE TRACK THE HAND as

it becomes--

--Agent Messner, reaching for his gun as the elevator arrives

at the fourteenth floor.

INT. HALLWAY -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME

Messner and a heavily armed contingent of cops and fellow

feds exit the elevator, fanning out, quietly situating

themselves at the far side of the hallway with a clear line

of sight to the open elevator at the opposite end.

HEARTBEAT ACCELERATES MORE

INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME

Sykes, having heard the elevator arrive, leans against the

wall, gun up, listening--

INT. HALLWAY -- SAME

Messner, voice low, directing the tactical action.

INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME

Sykes, hearing that last transmission simultaneously.

She glances down at Carruthers, sees his IFB in his lap,

realizes that's where the voice is coming from. Plugs it

into her ear.

Sykes, covering Carruthers' IFB, whispering into her own.

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME

Watters, re-targeting, bringing the Barrett .50 to bear on

the lower floors, sighting down from the top, counting back

to fourteen, settling, locking off the tripod, gazing through

her scope... HEARTBEAT BUILDING STILL, becoming more erratic.

WATTERS POV: Fourteenth floor, big glass windows, drawn

curtains...she nuzzles the eyepiece, finger slipping

delicately inside the trigger guard...waiting.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. ELEVATOR CAR -- SAME

With Sykes attention diverted, Acosta begins slowly moving

his hand toward his pant leg, reaching for a hidden ankle-

holster as we--

INT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME

--Mustache and his men, hands going to their rigs, shoulder

and waist. A handcuffed Ivy watches with them as the elevator

doors open and a big plume of black smoke vacates the car,

eerily cast light burns blood red within, infernal, hellish.

Now, another pull engine leaps to life from inside the car,

this one gnarled and guttural, winding out...a chainsaw.

HEARTBEAT JACKHAMMERING NOW. Out of control.

The sound falls away, leaving only the runaway throb of the

beating heart as we--

SLO-MO DOLLY IN:

Buddy Israel. Both hands going to his heart. Something

horribly wrong. He pitches forward, falling away from Soot's

pistol--

THE HEARTBEAT crescendos wildly, out-of-control...

...A BELL-RANGER HELICOPTER, the heartbeat becoming the thwack

of rotor blades as it lifts off with Deputy Director Locke

and an FBI tactical team inside...

MONTAGE

...a kaleidoscope of scenarios about to be played out at the

exact same second...shared fates...Shakespearean fraught...in

this soundless realm the CAMERA TAKES US PAST THE FOLLOWING:

HUGO -- Looking on in horror as Israel collapses.

DOC GILL -- Rushing to Buddy's aide.

SOOT -- Bringing the 9mm up, leveling it on Hugo.

CAMERA MOVES OUT INTO THE PENTHOUSE HALLWAY PAST:

MUSTACHE -- Sensing grave danger, his gun being drawn. His

m

IVY -- Pulling away from his captors, looking for cover.

DARWIN TREMOR -- Stepping from the elevator, strapped with

a

in the other, looking for lives to end.

s

LESTER TREMOR -- Chainsaw snarling, spewing oil, psycho smile

JEEVES TREMOR -- Sledgehammer in a scabbard on his back,

h

like drumsticks, pins pulled. He hurls them.

CAMERA MOVES PAST THEM, DOWN ELEVATOR SHAFT TO:

SYKES -- Pulling extra clips from her handbag, securing them

under her garter belt, dumping her heels in favor of hose.

ACOSTA -- Pant leg lifted, moving panther-quiet, tortoise-

slow, unfastening the snap on his ankle-holster.

c

CARRUTHERS -- Near death, eyes locked on Acosta, his mortal

MESSNER -- Watching as his team moves into place around the

e

CAMERA MOVES OUT THE WINDOW AND UP TO:

WATTERS -- In the Hotel window across the way, sniper-rifle

s

CAMERA MOVES THROUGH RIFLE SCOPE UP TO AND INSIDE EARPIECE

Inside the earpiece at 10000x normal magnification; micro-

sound condensers and circuits the size of skyscrapers. Then,

a voice makes the landscape tremble, like the trump of God:

THE CAMERA SUDDENLY REVERSES PATH

Back out of the earpiece, down through the scope, over the

barrel of the rifle...BOOM...A .50 caliber bullet is birthed.

CAMERA TRAVELS BACK TO:

The fourteenth floor window of the Nomad detonates with

concussive ferocity-- creating a hailstorm of shattered glass

that sweeps the length of the hallway, engulfing cops and

feds whole.

Another round tears in after it, exploding a gilded ceiling

stanchion, sparking off the rebar, tripping the sprinkler

system, dousing the corridor-- everybody runs for cover.

One of the AGENTS, wounded, summons another elevator.

Messner, undeterred, advances on the elevator containing

Sykes and Carruthers.

CAMERA TRAVELING BACK

Sykes, Glock ready to rock, about to move. Acosta, pulling

a pistol from his ankle-rig, preparing to backshoot Sykes.

CAMERA ASCENDS BACK UP THROUGH SHAFT

Chaos. Carnage. Full blown bloodbath. Heavily-armed men on

an overkill override. Mustache and Co., waging close quarters

warfare with the Brothers Tremor. Bullets blaze, bodies

drop, everything burns--

CAMERA CONTINUES PAST SCENE TO:

Soot, shooting Hugo several times-- Hugo falling back,

confused by the abrupt pain, baffled by the appearance of

blood. Gill, overtop of Israel, trying to force feed him

nitro-glycerin tablets. Buddy goes into full cardiac arrest.

Disparate sounds collide now, swell to a great tumult-- an

incomprehensible crescendo of explosions and chainsaws and

gunshots and screams as we--

CUT TO BLACK

...nothing...complete and utter silence...

SLOW FADE UP ON:

Primo Sparazza...sitting in that hospital bed...waiting.

SLOW FADE UP ON:

The Swede...sitting on a sofa in his suite with Sparazza's

men...waiting.

SLOW FADE UP ON:

Rupert Reed...drunk and despondent...by the phone...waiting.

SLOW FADE UP ON:

Victor Padiche...hand-wringing...watching his phone...waiting.

HARD CUT UP ON:

All of it happening at lightspeed. Watters, reloading,

watching as leaden contrails of gunsmoke pour from the

pulverized fourteenth floor. She resumes her assault.

Messner, a few feet from the car containing Sykes. More

sniper fire rakes the hallway. Another elevator arrives,

opens...call girls inside. They snuck up somehow, past

security... The gunplay gets them spooked, scared-- they

scramble from the car-- cops and feds try to stuff them back

inside the elevator as rounds continue to rain down.

One of the girls catches a hard ricochet, wig leaping off

her head as a bounced bullet punches through her skull-- she

crumbles, instant casualty. Messner hardly notices, moving

instead toward the other elevator car.

Carruthers, pawing feebly at her, moaning-- trying to warn

her-- she shrugs him off.

BANG-- Sykes squeals, spins back, feels numbness spread over

her legs and lower trunk, knows she's been shot.

ACOSTA fires again, bullet ripping through her studded

bustier, gouging kevlar, nicking ribcage-- embedding into

the IFB receiver on her hip, ruining it. Sykes falters--

tries to raise her gun--

Acosta raises his aim to her head, about to deliver the coup

de grace-- Messner appears now, sees Acosta, sights him when--

BLAM!BLAM!    BLAM!!

Acosta's chest explodes, he slumps, the gun sliding away--

Messner swings wide on the car to reveal:

Carruthers, smoking gun, trembling aim, exposed ankle

holster...empty. Sykes, kevlar burning, smashed round still

hot, she tries to pull her vest off, finds her newly paralyzed

arm uncooperative. Messner, advancing now, keeping an eye

on his partner as he moves toward the car.

Messner enters the elevator, rushes to the doomed Carruthers.

Messner takes his partner under the arms, lugging him into

the open hallway, stripping off his shirt. Carruthers severed

hand nearly falls away from the rest of his arm.

Acosta spits blood from the lungs-- his breathing now a bog

of pinched snorts and gurgles.

TWO FEDS enter to remove Acosta from the car-- he lets out a

guttural yelp as they hoist him-- real pain or playing possum,

impossible to tell...As his legs clear the elevator doors,

they slowly close on the wounded Sykes.

Messner, tries to prevent them from closing, can't-- gazes

up at the digital counter as the elevator continues its ascent

to the Penthouse level...

INT. ELEVATOR CAR

Sykes, riding up, wounded, vulnerable, trying to reach the

control panel to stop the car. She keys her now useless IFB.

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- TOP FLOOR -- SAME

--Watters, panicked, pulling the Barrett up off its tri-pod,

hitting the hallway, double-timing to the stairwell...She

has no idea that she's lost radio contact with Watters.

INT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME

Plaster and debris everywhere, sprinklers tripped, most of

Mustache's team shot, shredded or burnt to a crisp. Pieces

of building and bodies either waterlogged or fully ablaze.

Mustache and Darwin play duck and cover, exchanging fire.

Jeeves, out of grenades, sledgehammer swinging, crushing

wall studs, scattering remaining security team members.

Ivy, sheltered, having survived the opening salvos, gets

ahold of a gun from a chainsaw-shorn former security member;

Lester sees Ivy arming himself, blitzes him-- chainsaw

snarling, revved out, sending fantails of gristle and chipped

bone everywhere. Less than fifteen feet separate them.

Ivy fires, shots deflected off the blade's teeth, seconds

from getting gutted-- he adjusts his aim high, emptying the

gun into Lester's chest, bullets blazing haywire, blowing

out between Lester's shoulders, stopping a hard charge cold.

Lester, lopsided, bullet-dazed, drools blood...then dies.

Ivy dumps his clip, searches for another-- the chainsaw falls,

stalls.

Jeeves, hefting the sledgehammer like a hayseed John Henry,

looks over as his older brother's life come to an end. He

reacts badly.

Jeeves buries the sledge in a wall, takes up the chainsaw,

rips the pullcord, resumes the charge--

Ivy, finds a clip, slams it in the stock, points, pulls--

trigger-stick, hammer-jam. He falls to his back, scurrying

away, trouble finding traction, soles slipping-- he keeps

pulling the trigger. Jeeves straddles him from above, raises

the saw like a great wooden stake, about to bring it down--

--BAM!

Ivy's automatic discharges. The round splits the saw's gas

tank, spritzing fuel, dousing Jeeves-- A beat before the

tank suddenly arcs, exploding, lighting Jeeves up like a

four-hundred pound bonfire, bouncing him off the walls; a

human Hindenberg, fully engulfed. He flails, burns, howls,

falls...molten fat melts off his body like lard butter...

Darwin, dismayed, both brothers down...He moves on Mustache,

dispatches him with detached efficiency, snapping his neck

clean. He then starts toward Ivy, who's trying desperately

to crawl out of there.

INT. PENTHOUSE -- SAME

Hugo, crawling across the floor, knees dragging over his own

blood trail, trying to reach: Israel, on the ground, dying.

Soot's gun has jammed. He clears it efficiently, patiently

reloading the weapon as Doc Gill, in panic mode, performs

full chest compressions on Buddy as we--

INT. HALLWAY -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME

Messner, doing the same to Carruthers, trying to restart his

heart. Acosta, lays there silently, slowly bleeding out,

being tended to by a team of agents. In the b.g. Cops and

Feds gather near the window, searching for the assailant,

binoculars and rifle scopes strafing the Horizon hotel across

the way, concentrating at the open window near the top floor.

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR HALLWAY -- SAME

WATTERS, running up the hallway, past alarmed maid service

and hotel staff. She reaches the lower floor window and

raises the scope to her eye, searching for Sykes--

WATTERS POV

She sees the Feds and Cops in the Nomad window across the

way. Smoke clears, her field of vision through the scope

expands, sharpens.

--And that's when she spots the call girl, face obscured,

lying dead from a headshot in the hallway...her heart

sinks...and she assumes the worst: Sykes is dead.

She flicks to full-auto and opens fire right through the

glass in front of her-- big gas-ejected shells pop from the

breach like bowling pins-- the gathered throng across the

way in the Nomad window seem to vaporize in a violent collage

of heat, blood and building chunks-- Watters bucks big sobs,

blasting away with the Barrett...

INT. ELEVATOR -- SAME

Sykes, standing now, knock-kneed, kevlar discarded, down to

a black bra and mini-skirt, blood dribbling over her midriff,

deep indentation near her sternum-- big yellow bruise in

bloom-- the bullet didn't penetrate...her elevator arrives

at the penthouse level and as the doors open we--

INT. PENTHOUSE HALLWAY -- SAME

Darwin, looming over Ivy, about to bring the sledge down

squarely on his skull-- the elevator doors open in his

periphery... He looks over, sees Sykes standing there, barely

clothed, wet with blood, gun in her hand...and grins.

Sykes, seeing Darwin standing over Ivy, holding a sledgehammer--

recognizes him as the perv from earlier. She levels the Glock,

stepping out of the elevator, steadying herself against the

wall, steadying her aim on Darwin's head.

Then, the sound of an helicopter intrudes, rotor thrum,

building steadily, growing louder-- the floor seems to shake

as the chopper approaches-- nervous eyes dart-- nobody moves.

INT. PENTHOUSE APARTMENT -- SAME

The chopper draws closer, growing louder-- Hugo, still trying

to crawl toward his downed boss. Soot finishes him off with

a flush headshot. Gill, frantic, rapid chest compressions

on Israel, who gags, starts, coughs, heart back up and

beating. His watery gaze moves from Gill to Soot, who know

stands overtop of him, aiming the 9mm down at him.

Israel averts his eyes...the end has come. He looks over

and sees his lamb-skin coat, lying there, soaking in Beanie's

blood, ruined beyond recognition. A tear escapes his eye.

Soot puts the gun flush with Buddy's skull when suddenly,

the ceiling begins to tremble and shake...the sound of a

helicopter filling the air.

INT. HALLWAY -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME

Messner is losing Carruthers, can't revive him, begins to

crack-- hammering on his chest...it's no use. He's dead.

He sobs-- something slides from his pocket. He glances down...

...sees that the bag containing Elmore's severed fingers has

fallen from his pocket. Doesn't remember hanging onto them.

He replaces them in his pocket. Looks down at his dead

friend, sees his severed hand, also missing fingers...

...the absurdity of this makes Messner want to cry laughing...

...and that's when he hears the chopper...and sees it as it

rises up past their floor, past the contingent of Cops and

Feds slugging it out with Watters across the street.

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME

Watters, ears ringing with gunfire reverb, reloading-- salvos

of return fire ripping back at her-- then, all at once, the

shooting stops-- She pauses, thinks it's a ploy-- then slowly

peers over the window sill as the Bell-Ranger comes into

view, over the Nomad, touching down on its narrow rooftop.

INT. PENTHOUSE -- SAME

The doors to the Penthouse level are bashed open and the

windows implode as FBI tactical agents repel in, weapons

drawn, swarming, surrounding the scene, shouting commands--

Darwin Tremor drops the sledge, jackrabbits for the elevator,

diving in as the doors close--

Sykes, stumbling toward Ivy. He sees she's injured, scoops

her up like a new bride-- she places something in his

hand...Acosta's fake FBI credentials. Ivy looks, nods, gets

it-- agents approach, combat crouches, MP-5's at arms.

Ivy, flashing the I.D., taking care to cover the photo.

Commotion and confusion swirl. The Agent, unsure, searching

for some confirmation-- can't find it, dismisses them and

rushes into the Penthouse. Sykes and Ivy slip out the exit.

INT. PENTHOUSE APARTMENT -- SAME

Soot, disarmed, handcuffed. Israel, propped up, sweating

badly, seizures still hobbling his heart. Gill, being patted

down by the Agents, prescription pills confiscated. Soot is

held at gunpoint and flex-cuffed, the remainder of rubber

appliance pulled off his face.

The agents begin to initiate an "All Clear" over their radios.

Moments pass before Deputy Director Locke enters the room,

He approaches Soot, studies him, to one of the agents;

The Agent nods confirmation. Locke reaches into Soot's coat,

finds his cellphone...hits redial.

Locke disconnects, passes the phone to an underling.

INT. STAIRWELL -- SAME

Messner, bounding up the steps, gun drawn, hears voices coming

down the stairs toward him-- stops, checks his weapon...

INT. STAIRWELL -- SAME

Ivy and Sykes descending the stairs. He carries her like a

princess, sweeping her down landing after landing.

Sykes, somehow shy, sweet, gazing up at him.

Ivy, big smile.

You love her?

My mamma? C'mon shorty, y'gotta ask?

You hurtin' pretty bad?

Got hit twice.

It's going around ain't it? Mafuckas

catching bullets like the common

cold up in this bitch.

I think I accidentally shot and killed

my boy today.

Well, if it's any comfort, I's goin'

in to there to act a fool baby.

Straight rockin' heat and slayin'

niggas--

For real?

Mmm-hmm...and your boy very well

mighta been one of 'em.

True?

Like a mafucka.

That takes some of the sting out.

I probably woulda busted on you too

...and what a shame that woulda been.

I feel like I know you girl. I feel

like I've known you forever.

You gonna lemme see your scars?

You do the right thing. Sit with me

while I heal, let it develop slow.

This gets Ivy's biggest grin.

He reaches the seventeenth floor, rounds the corner, nearly

runs into Messner, has a gun thrust in his face.

Sykes recognizes him and in a blink has a gun under his chin.

Messner, eyes moving from Ivy to Sykes. Stalemate, no sense

pushing. He moves past them, hits the stairwell exit on

eighteen. Ivy and Sykes resume their trek down the stairs.

INT. HALLWAY -- PENTHOUSE FLOOR

Messner, bashing in from the stairwell. WHIP PAN OVER TO

REVEAL: The Swede, still accompanied by the Sparazza goons,

arriving in the elevator at the same time.

INT. ELEVATOR

Darwin, on his way down, rolling around on the floor of the

car, covering himself in congealed blood and bullet casings,

slicking back his hair, losing the security jacket, splashing

yet more blood on himself. Satisfied, he snatches Carruthers'

F.B.I. credentials up off the floor...and waits.

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- SAME

The elevator arrives at the far end. A small asian man

carrying a stack of clean towels steps off and starts down

the hall-- sees Watters, sees the .45 trained on him-- does

an abrupt about face and disappears back inside the car.

Watters lowers the gun, wipes tears, the area around her is

littered with spent .50 caliber shells. The fourteenth floor

of the Nomad is now empty. Sirens wail in the distance.

Down below, Watters can see a bevy of law enforcement

personnel streaming toward the Horizon. She slowly takes

the Barrett off the ledge, begins breaking it down, glancing

up at the Penthouse of the Nomad as we...

INT. PENTHOUSE APARTMENT -- SAME

Director Locke waits. Messner and The Swede appear in the

doorway. The Swede nods to all concerned and starts toward

Israel. Doc Gill acknowledges the Swede.

The Swede kneels down next to Israel, dropping his black

valise, cracking it open. Messner, dazed, dumbfounded, sees

Locke.

Locke approaches, lays a comforting arm on Messner, guiding

him to a chair.

The Swede, working on Israel, shaking his head, something's

wrong. He stands, crosses to Locke, silently confers.

Suddenly, Soot breaks from his captors, sprinting for the

shattered Penthouse windows, launching himself-- a swan dive

out into the open air-- He hangs there for a moment, an

aesthetically striking form; like Lazarus cast against a

cobalt blue sky, backlit by the sun from the lake below--

--till gravity grabs, pulls-- plummeting him toward earth,

sending him headlong into the vast expanse of concrete below.

This startlingly event is dismissed by mutual shrugs and a

collective lack of concern.

Messner is absolutely agog.

Locke says no more-- starts out of the Penthouse with the

Swede, Dr. Gill and Buddy Israel in tow. A Bureau forensics

team arrives to quietly tag and bag the dead...Messner stands

there, absolutely agog.

INT. NOMAD HOTEL -- LOBBY -- DAY

Hives of activity. Cordons and crime scene lockdowns like

onion layers, multiple law enforcement agencies, confounded,

confused-- too many cooks, too many kitchens. Nobody knows

who the hells in charge. Local paramedics and EMT's cart

out the wounded. Coroners and M.E.'s cart out the dead.

Reporters and national news outlets crowd police barricades

outside, competing for coverage, as--

THE CAMERA PANS OVER TO REVEAL:

Acosta is wheeled through the lobby, hooked up to IV and

oxygen, looking ghastly, like something exhumed. He catches

the eye of the pimply casino employee and manages a wink.

He's flex-cuffed to the gurney and pushed against the wall

for the moment as the Agents move off to deal with the recent

appearance of Lazlo Soot-- whose body has been unceremoniously

splattered over the parking lot.

As the Agents depart, Acosta peers down at his shackles;

simple plastic binding rods-- he smiles...a moment later the

stiletto blade fires from his sleeve as--

THE CAMERA PANS OVER TO REVEAL:

Darwin Tremor staggering out of an open elevator, blood-

sodden, head down-- FBI badge held aloft for all its worth.

Playing it up, free pass, Agents rush in, hold him upright,

help him toward a line of awaiting ambulances outside as--

THE CAMERA PANS OVER TO REVEAL:

Ivy and Sykes, being released from the stairwell, cut chains

sliding off-- Ivy holds up pilfered FBI creds. Rampant

confusion makes the moment possible. He's waved through,

carrying Sykes, looking every bit the good Samaritan.

Sykes, a mess of mascara, adorned in her unmentionables,

looking every bit the prostitute she appears to be-- she

spots the woman at the counter from earlier. The woman gazes

back, jaw agape. Sykes can only shrug...if you can't beat

'em-- join 'em. She and Ivy cross the lobby as--

THE CAMERA PANS OVER TO REVEAL:

Messner...morose, exiting another elevator with the sheet-

draped body of Carruthers on a gurney. Gandersen, the Nomad

owner, spots him, starts over, looks to unleash, gets close

enough to catch Messner's expression. Sees it in his

eyes...enough dead bodies for one day. Messner continues

moving through the lobby, hears the chopper taking off as--

CAMERA TILTS UP TO REVEAL:

Through the clear glass atrium of the Nomad, the Bell-Ranger

goes airborne against an impossibly clear winter sky, banking

south toward Las Vegas.

CAMERA TILTS DOWN TO REVEAL:

The Horizon hotel across the way: The Fourteenth floor window.

INT. HORIZON HOTEL -- FOURTEENTH FLOOR -- DAY

Watters, gear stowed, seemingly indifferent about the level

of law enforcement heading up her way, about to launch an

Alamo-like last stand in honor of her fallen sista.

She hears commotion erupt from outside as survivors begin

filing from the building. She takes up the Barrett, gazing

through the scope, looking, looking, looking...stops...holy

shit...it's her. It's Sykes.

And she's alive and being carried by a man, a big gorgeous

black man that she's gazing upon with utter love and longing.

A boulder-sized lump takes shape in Watters throat; betrayed,

backbit-- tears come to fast to contain, too many to control.

Numbed...the sensation leaving her fingers, she finds herself

racking the bolt on the Barrett and gazing through

crosshairs...taking aim on Ivy's head. Behind her, the

elevator arrives, an a dozen armed cops, hoo-rah from it,

hustling the length of the hall, descending down on her--

BOOM!

EXT. PARKING STRUCTURE -- NOMAD HOTEL -- SAME

A gunshot in the distance followed by shrieks-- Darwin Tremor

snaps his head around at the sound, moving past platoons of

Cops and Feds now rushing that way. His I.D. is out,

affording him easy egress. He hops the stairs up, top level,

Barracuda parked at the rear of the lot. As he approaches...

Darwin glances over at...Hollis Elmore, standing there, skin

horribly discolored, disease afflicted. He wears a hooded

tourist sweatsuit; "Ta-Hoe, Ta-Hoe It's Off To Fun We Go!"

stitched in cursive across the front. He's holding the Colt

Python against his hip.

Darwin, a beat, what-to-do...hillbilly-acumen in overdrive.

Now Elmore raises the Colt with his good hand, advancing on

Darwin, moving gingerly, his legs not quite there...

Darwin tries to stay tight, composed.

Elmore keeps coming.

Darwin, uh-oh...

--Oops.

Darwin...speechless...he's done.

Elmore, that Colt looking like a cannon this close to Darwin.

Elmore, still nodding.

Darwin gazes up at Elmore, some fraternal bond forms.

A pause. Elmore nods.

Darwin, slowly lowering the Colt.

Darwin, sifting through his pockets, tossing Elmore the keys.

Elmore brings the Colt back up.   Darwin, hands up, hold on--

He reaches in, pulls a joint off the dashboard, forages,

finds matches, lights up, starts off.

Darwin, walking away, taking huge hits off that joint,

traipsing down the steps, getting stoned out of his mind.

Elmore, considering, re-considering, looking at that Colt.

--As he back shoots Darwin with all six rounds from the

Python, blowing holes through him. Darwin goes lop-sided,

legs failing, lit-joint still smoking in his mouth as dies

standing, only to fall like cut timber seconds later.

Elmore acts quickly, sliding into the 'Cuda and starting it,

that big block Hemi roaring to life under the hood.

EXT. NOMAD HOTEL AND CASINO -- DAY

Pedestrians and passerbys drawn to the commotion at the Nomad,

the bottleneck bogs traffic down, making it impossible to

move. Elmore crouches low as police and emergency personnel

cross in front of the car... Slowly, the crosswalk begins to

thin and then finally clear...save a single man:

Messner...standing right in front of the Barracuda, staring

at the tires, staring at Elmore. The two lock eyes as he

moves around to the driver's side, reaching into his pocket--

--Elmore lifts the Colt up off his lap, putting his heavily

bandaged hand on the wheel. Then he sees Messner's FBI creds,

clipped to his belt-- can't tell if this one's legit.

He sets the Colt down on the floorboard as Messner walks up,

pulling a plastic bag from his pocket: The one containing

three severed fingers. He glances down at Elmore's mummified

left hand, holding out the bag for him to take.

Elmore, unsure, accepting the bag, seeing what's inside,

embarrassed by it-- he sets it down on the seat next to him.

Messner, nodding. A beat.

Beat.

Beat.   Messner nods.

Elmore looks up at him-- what does it matter...

Messner, a thought, then:

CUT TO BLACK

FADE UP ON:

INT. CEDARS SINAI -- LAS VEGAS NEVADA -- DAY

Messner walks in, cleaned up, pressed suit, no tie. He badges

himself past the front desk. An ORDERLY approaches.

Messner nods.

INT. CEDARS SINAI -- THIRD FLOOR -- DAY

Messne exits the stairwell. Droves of Feds and justice

department types crowd the third floor hallway, around the

I.C.U. The mood is subdued. The Swede exits a per-op suite,

dressed in scrubs and a surgical gown, talking with Dr. Gill,

who is also dressed for surgery.

Messner searches the hall for a familiar face...finds

it...Locke, far end, talking with an aide.

The aide sees Messner approach. Locke follows her eyes, turns.

Locke, angered, handing his clipboard to the aide, taking

Messner by the arm, leading him away.

A gun is in Locke's side now-- against his ribs-- he looks

down, stunned...Now it's Messner who's leading him away.

Locke, pale, shook up.

INT. CEDARS SINAI -- I.C.U. -- RECOVERY ROOM -- DAY

Locke and Messner enter. In an oxygen tent erected on one

side of the room, sits the shrunken figure of Primo Sparazza.

On the other, a barely conscious Buddy Israel. Both men are

hooked up to multiple I-V's and heart monitors.

Messner turns back to Locke, mind racing, searching his

memory, sparking to--

FLASH CUT:

The Diner. The day before.

CUT BACK TO SCENE:

Messner turns back, gazing at Israel and Sparazza.

Israel and Sparazza glare at one another across the room

with pure, unadulterated hated for the other.

The reel-to-reel machine spins:

Messner...words can't begin to describe his dismay.

Messner steps closer to Locke, close enough to throttle him.

--Oops-- slip-up, too much talking...Locke goes silent.

Locke says nothing...Messner levels his gun on him.

Locke reluctantly hands Messner the confidential package we

saw delivered to him earlier in the film. Messner pulls the

photos of a post-op Primo Sparazza--

The Diner, Carruthers and Messner, the day before...

CUT BACK TO SCENE:

Messner...a slow, sickening realization taking hold...

FLASH CUT TO:

Jersey Turnpike. The past: A '51 Ford Fairlane, flush with

an embankment, bullet perforated, dead-body draped. A top-

coated man stalks the vehicle's sole survivor, FREEMAN HELLER,

shooting him in the back. He rolls over and is shot point

blank in the face. THE CAMERA TILTS UP to the top-coated

gunman, who returns the pistol to its holster, revealing...

...An FBI BADGE, clearly visible, clipped to his waist...

FLASH CUT BACK TO:

Messner, staring at Sparazza...now he knows.

FLASH CUT TO:

Freeman Heller/Primo Sparazza, lying there on the turnpike,

unblinking blue eyes staring up dead, bullet punctures issuing

blood, swelling consuming the facial features, distorting,

perverting...then, inexplicably...those blue eyes blink.

The Diner. The day before.

CUT BACK TO SCENE:

Messner, head in his hands.

A beat. Locke, a reluctant nod.

Messner glowers at Locke...can't believe what he's hearing.

Messner's head falls into his hands.

Locke, swallowing hard, struggling to assert his authority.

Locke, not getting it as Messner takes aim on the oxygen

tent containing Sparazza. Locke's eyes inflate, he reaches-

grabs-gropes-NOOOO-!

--Israel, the faintest of smiles as-- BOOM.

THE END

