EXT. THE SUSAN MARIE, SHIP CHANNEL BANK - NIGHT

Fog.  Penetrated only by sound.  The LAPPING of sea at a drifting

hull.  Tendrils of mist part, revealing...

...a face.  Strong and blond and handsome.

SUPERIMPOSE:  SEPTEMBER 15, 1954

LONG ANGLE...from below, we watch CARL HEINE, high on the cross

spar of his mast.  He has pulled a SHUTTLE of TWINE from his rubber

overalls, and is LASHING a LANTERN in the cloud of mist, as MAIN

TITLES BEGIN...

ANGLE...the tiny, meticulously neat cabin.  Empty, silent.  A tin

COFFEE CUP on the counter's edge.  The battery well open, revealing

two large BATTERIES in place.  PAN to...

...the deck of this sturdy stern-picker.  The fishing net stretched

from the huge DRUM into the sea.  Keep PANNING to the bow, where...

...Carl stands with his kerosene lantern and his air horn, watching

as another BOAT comes slowly out of the mist.  The silhouette of a

FISHERMAN, holding a long fishing GAFF.  As fragments of fog part,

we CLOSE on the figure's face, to see...

...his eyes.  They are Asian.  SMASH CUT to...

EXT. THE SUSAN MARIE, SHIP CHANNEL BANK - MORNING

Blinding sun.  Our boat bobs lifeless on placid water.  As CREDITS

CONTINUE, two figures slowly reel in the massive net.  SHERIFF ART

MORAN is painfully thin, unimposing, methodical.  Only the eyes

reflect his disquiet.  His young deputy, ABEL MARTINSON, cuts

anxious looks between his mentor and the sea.  As the net brings

silvered salmon across the gunnel, CUT to...

...the cabin.  Tidy as before.  Only two things have changed.

CLOSE on the tin coffee cup, which now lies OVERTURNED on the

floor.  PAN above the open battery well, where a third MARINE

BATTERY now stands next to the wheel.  CUT to...

...the stern, as the raveling net LIFTS from the water's surface...

...the face of Carl Heine.  Turned to the sun.  SMASH CUT to...

INT. CORONER'S LAB - DAY

WHITE fills the frame.  A hand PULLS back the blanket-shroud

revealing Carl's face.  As CREDITS CONTINUE, tilt up to the

coroner, HORACE WHALEY, gazing down.  A shading of regret behind

the professional mask.  A series of QUICK CUTS...

...Whaley's hand pulls the SHUTTLE of TWINE from Carl's pocket...

...examines the open, empty KNIFE SHEATH at Carl's belt...

...Carl's wrist, its WATCH stopped at 1:47...

Whaley bends over Carl's body, presses on his solar plexus,

watching pink FOAM rise from Carl's mouth and nose.  And then.

He sees something more.  His fingers gently pull back the hair

from above Carl's left ear, to reveal...

...a skull wound.  The bone caved in.  Four inches across.

EXT. SAN PIEDRO ISLAND - DAY

Snow falling on cedars.

SUPERIMPOSE:  DECEMBER 6.

The heavens descend softly onto our island.  Exquisite, silent,

hypnotic.  An epic snowfall inspiring awe at our frailness against

the limitless scope of nature.  As CREDITS CONCLUDE, a series of

QUICK ANGLES...

...cars pirouetting, skating on their tires, past an abandoned

school bus, where kids throw snowballs at is windows...

...Fisk's Hardware Center, its endless queue of orderly citizens

waiting stoically for their snow shovels and kerosene...

...the harbor, with its moored fleet of tiny fishing vessels

blanketed as if by volcanic ash, a pair of teenage lovers building

a snowman at the edge of a dock, she pushes the boy into the water,

and he rises laughing, steam rising from his clothes...

...undulating strawberry fields of pure white, untouched and

flawless as the Sahara...

Finally, to a public building, cars gathering as best they can,

people streaming up snow-laden steps to the entrance, and as we

FOLLOW them, SMASH CUT to...

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

CLOSE on impassive EYES.  They are Asian.  We have seen them

before.  PULL BACK to see...

KABUO MIYAMOTO.  Early 30's, dark blue suit, clean shirt.  He sits

ramrod straight, utterly motionless, expressionless, the eye of a

storm of movement in...

...the assembling COURTROOM.  A packed gallery of buzzing locals,

the scent of anticipation.  A bank of REPORTERS and PHOTOGRAPHERS,

cosmopolitan in attire, bearing themselves as jaded dignitaries

from the civilized world.  As we PAN their ranks...

...we look over the right shoulder of ISHMAEL CHAMBERS, early 30's,

dark, a rugged, somber man jotting notes on a pad which rests on

his right leg.

He glances blandly at his nonchalant colleagues.

To the JURY BOX.  Truck farmers, grocers, fishermen, in sober

neckties.  A waitress, a secretary, fisher wives in Sunday dresses.

To the neighbor.  The ramrod-still defendant.

Ishmael writing on the pad balanced precariously on his knee,

until...

...it falls with a CLATTER of pages.  He reaches with his right

hand, replaces the pad on his thigh.  Around him, CAMERAS are being

swung to the ready.  Ishmael looks to see...

...a slender WOMAN of refined beauty, entering the courtroom.

A few flashes POP, and Ishmael's right hand retrieves a venerable

box camera from beneath his seat, as his notepad falls once more,

unheeded.

Ishmael pivots, and we understand his struggle with the notepad.

For he is forced to rest his camera on the stump of his amputated

left arm, its empty sleeve pinned at the elbow.

Through his VIEWFINDER, we see HATSUE take her place in the first

row.  And sensing her presence, her husband turns.  Their eyes

meet.  A string of FLASHES...

But none from Ishmael.  He hesitates.  As if considering whether he

will violate this woman's privacy.  The camera lowers.  HOLD on his

face...

INT. COURTHOUSE CORRIDOR - DAY

MATCH CUT to Hatsue's face.  Staring, impassive, empty.  PULL BACK

to see that she sits alone on a wooden bench by the courtroom door.

Her hands rest delicately on the purse in her lap.  Her demeanor as

removed from this place as is her husband's.

PULL BACK to see him alone, in shadow.  It is more than a notice.

Ishmael stares with fixed intensity at the motionless woman, as

she gathers her thoughts.  A moment of decision.  He approaches.

Stops, respectfully, at a distance which will not invade her

personal space.  And softer than we might have imagined...

She turns her head only slightly.  It is enough.  Her voice quiet

and firm at once...

There is no anger.  Only directness and resolve.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

PAN the back of the courtroom.  Twenty-four citizens of Japanese

ancestry fill the last row, dressed in their most formal clothes.

Shades of Atticus Finch.  As one, the Japanese-Americans watch...

...the prosecutor, ALVIN HOOKS, a crisp, even dapper man.  There is

a quickness about the eyes, a tendency to sharpness of manner, that

he works carefully against...

JUDGE FIELDING, tall and gray and rawboned, leans on his elbows,

his eyelids droop slightly, a deceptive masking of keen attention.

The witness is Sheriff Moran.  He answers as if this were a sincere

question.  As if he had never heard it before.

Ishmael watching.  Thinking on that.

HOLD on Ishmael.

INT. TEAM BUS - DAY

Teenage BOYS in football uniforms.  They ride with their helmets in

their laps.

CLOSE on Carl and Ishmael at 18, riding together.  Ishmael, dark

and rugged even then, is scarcely little.  But dwarfed by the blond

giant at his side, who glares out the window, at...

...snow geese landing in low flooded wheat.  The grace of it holds

both boys.

Ishmael nods absently.  They stare, side-by-side.

They never look at each other.  They never smile.  But you can

almost hear one in...

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hooks now stands with his polished shoe up on the witness podium.

Like chatting with the Sheriff across the back fence...

And his glance inevitably goes to the first row behind the

prosecutor's table.  Taking the glances of the jury with it.

SUSAN MARIE HEINE is pretty and blonde and full-bodied in her

modest black dress.  Composure and dignity.  Against her grief.

EXT. HEINE HOME - DAY

Moran climbs from his vehicle, as Carl's young SONS dash around the

corner of the house.  Seeing the Sheriff, they stop cold.  Silent,

shirtless, barefoot.

He spits his Juicy Fruit into a wrapper.  And as the younger boy

nods across the distance...

She has appeared in the doorway, smiling, spittle-marked baby's

diaper across her shoulder.  And he smiles back.  Tells the boys...

But they don't.  So he follows into her entryway, closing the door

behind him.  And at the foot of her curving staircase...

Too quick.  He stops himself.  And she sees that.

She looks at him, uncomprehending, the smile only beginning to

fade, before...

She only blinks.  As if translating the words from a foreign

language.

And with these words, a slack, blank look crosses her face, and she

stumbles back one step, sitting down HARD on the bottom stair of

her curved staircase.

He doesn't know what to do.  She digs her elbows into her lap, and

begins to rock, very slowly, wringing the diaper in her hands.  Her

face is more terrible than tears.  It is frightened.  She murmurs

to herself, so that we can barely hear...

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

CLOSE on Hooks, nodding.  As if, slowly, digesting something in his

mind.

EXT. DOCKS - DAY

Ishmael walking down the sunlit wharf.  Purpose in his stride...

Up ahead, the Susan Marie has been brought to dock.  Moran stands

chatting with a knot of six or seven FISHERMEN.

As he arrives, Moran smiles a thin greeting.  Not happy to see him.

Of course, neither is anyone else.

Ishmael shakes his head in silent helplessness.  WILLIAM GJOVAAG, a

sunburned, big-bellied, tattooed gill-netter, clamps on his damp

cigar butt.

Everybody laughs.  It is all good-natured, sort of.

Staring.  At each other.  Eye contact holds during...

Moran finds his eyes drifting to Ishmael's.  Which are right there,

waiting.  Moran looks away.

ANGLE...Ishmael and Moran, walking alone back up the wharf.  The

Sheriff is worried.  Finally...

No answer.  They keep walking.

Silence.  Silence.  And slowly...

And looks over.  Like the guy holding all the aces.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Moran fidgets on the stand.

SEE him now.  NELS GUDMUNDSSON, attorney for Kabuo Miyamoto, stands

beside his impassive client.  Nels is 79, blind in his left eye, a

little shaky.  His body is winding down.

And Nels begins to walk toward him.  Limping, as he comes.

A real.  Friendly smile.

Some gentle laughter.  Judge Fielding doesn't even bother to look

annoyed.

Nels nods to himself, as if considering that.  So that the jury

will do the same.

And lets that sit.  Scratches his neck.

Ah.

No answer to that.  The silence rests.

A beat.

Stops.  Thinking.

And clears his throat.

And limps back to the defendant's table.  Where Kabuo Miyamoto sits

watching him.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

Horace Whaley, the county coroner, folds his stork-like limbs

uncomfortably.  Searching for the appearance of ease.

Shakes his head, with a wry, disgusted smile.

Slight shrug.

And the prosecutor's eyes drift to the defendant.  So that the

jury's will do the same.  HOLD on Kabuo's regal bearing.  His

neutral mask.

EXT. STRAWBERRY FIELDS - DAWN

Mist of early light.  Two dark figures, little more than

silhouettes, measuring each other with their lethal bokken staffs.

We may think of Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader, for one is a full-

grown man.  The other, eight years old.  Dialogue plays in

subtitled JAPANESE...

And STRIKES a fearsome blow, which the child REPELS with startling

proficiency.  We can see ZENHICHI's stony face, now.  If he is

impressed by his son, he does not show it.

WHAP!  WHAP!  WHAP!  The boy LASHES fiercely, the man parrying each

stroke with blinding ease.

CRASH!  The father has sent a blow in mid-word, FLINGING the child

like a doll.  The boy BOUNCES up, snatching his bokken into ready

position.

WHAP!  The child has unleashed a blow at the left side of his

father's HEAD.  It has been blocked.  The staffs rest against each

other, just above Zenhichi's ear.  There is no anger in either

warrior.  That we can see.

LATER...father and son sit on the ground, eating a small meal.

The sun has risen, angling light across the undulating fields.

They are alone in beauty.  A long silence.  Dialogue in subtitled

JAPANESE...

Eyes on his food.  As if alone, as if speaking to himself.  The boy

darting glances, unseen, at his father's profile.

The father keeps eating.  Never turns.

INT. COURTROOM - MORNING

Whaley stares down the end of his needle-nose.  The air of disdain

of a man playing chess with an unworthy opponent.

Ah.

Nels nods.  He can be quiet now.  The witness distracted from

volunteering the opinions Nels did not wish for.

Whaley thinks.

Nels nods.  Whaley is beyond frustrated.

A pause.

Nels nods.  Silence.

Horace wants to say more.  Doesn't immediately move.

The gavel CRACKS onto the block.  Judge Fielding stands to leave,

and the BAILIFF begins to usher the jury from its box.  Abel

Martinson, the deputy, stands near as Kabuo rises.  As he puts his

hand gently on Kabuo's arm, the defendant turns smoothly...

...to face a woman.  Standing at the rail.  And beneath the

courtroom buzz...

The voice so colloquially American, we are taken back.  Having

envisioned Kabuo as a silent Samurai.

The look holds.  Abel increasingly uneasy.

Abel grasps his arm.

He thinks about that.  Abel tugs him.

And for the first time.  He smiles.  And seems suddenly very

American indeed.  She stares back, her heart in her eyes.  Abel

tugs harder, but he can't budge the defendant.

But she doesn't.  So his fades.  One last look.  And he lets Abel

lead him away.

HOLD on her.  Watching him go.

EXT. MANZANAR INTERNMENT CAMP - NIGHT

Stars above a desert.  Wind gusts.  PAN barbed wire, rows of dark

barracks blurred by swirling dust, to...

...a fragile tar paper structure, its 'walls' rippling pre-

cariously.  And inside, to see that it is...

INT. BUDDHIST CHAPEL - NIGHT

...a makeshift sanctuary.  Candles, offerings of fruit.  A young

COUPLE together before a Buddhist PRIEST.  Kabuo and Hatsue.

Becoming one.

INT. BARRACKS - LATER

A cramped, ramshackle room.  Dust blowing through gaps in the

flimsy beams.  Kerosene light.  FUJIKO IMADA hangs the last of

the woolen army blankets to divide the room in half, as her four

youngest DAUGHTERS watch.  We PUSH THROUGH the blankets to the

other side, to see...

...the newlyweds.  Standing at a window in their wedding clothes.

Kissing.  Slow and full.  Until she whispers into his ear...

And her young husband turns.  Speaks to the curtain.

She giggles.  His hands trace her body.

And in a moment.  The MUSIC begins.  Glenn Miller.  A song that

sent our boys off to war.  And our young American prisoners...

...begin to undress each other.  Her slender fingers find the

buttons of his shirt, deftly undoing it, as he kisses her face.

He unclasps her dress.  And as it falls from her shoulders, falls

to the floor, we PUSH INTO her eyes, and...

INTERCUT her MEMORY of...

...a beach.  Two 10-year-old CHILDREN floating on the water.

Clinging to a wooden box, with a glass bottom for fish-watching.

The girl is Asian.  The boy is not.

And the boy wriggles around, leans over the box, as if seeking a

better view.  And KISSES the girl.  Full on her startled mouth.

BACK TO...the newlyweds.  On their cot now.  Close together.  Naked

and hungry for each other.

The girl laughs soundlessly.  And as the music BLARES, he has slid

his body above hers.  A whisper...

A whisper back, sure and strong...

And as he enters her.  As she holds him close with all her

strength.  Her lips breathe into his ear...

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hatsue watching her husband disappear through a door.  RACK FOCUS

to see across the way.  A man stares at her.

INT. IMADA PARLOR - DAY

Hatsue at 12, sits with an OLD WOMAN who guides her silently,

exquisitely, through the ritual of the tea ceremony.

The woman turns the cup in her hands.  One-quarter turn.  Bows

slightly, as she presents the tea.

EXT. HOLLOW CEDAR - DAY

Hatsue and Ishmael, both 12, are sprawled on the ground, sheltered

in the hollowed-out base of a cedar tree.  They watch the rain as

it pummels the woods around them.  She is speaking, carefully,

thoughtfully.  He listens with complete attention.

He shifts his position, his body brushing against hers, which makes

him reflexively pull away.  She seems not to notice.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Hatsue sits at a bedroom mirror.  Mrs. Shigemura watching

analytically, as Hatsue weaves her hair into a thick plait.

The girl smiles a small sour smile.  Speaks quietly...

The old woman studies her without irritation.

Apparently, the girl has heard this before.

The girl takes a long pin.  Begins carefully to fasten her hair.

Breaking eye contact with the mirror.

Is the girl even listening?  The old woman's voice never rises.

Remains patient.

No irony in the girl's voice.  No disrespect.  The old woman reads

the young face in the mirror.

INT. SAN PIEDRO REVIEW - DAY

CLOSE on 12-year-old Ishmael.  Neutral eyes.  Eating an apple.  A

horrific CLANGING surrounds us.  The clash of metal on metal.

See ARTHUR CHAMBERS now, at the printing press, an enormous lime

green contraption, with rollers and conveyor pulleys in a cast-

iron housing.  The shrieking of metal and gears recalls an ancient

locomotive.

Arthur is a large, rugged man, with round gun-metal rimmed

spectacles and garters on his shirtsleeves.  He wears the soft,

perpetual smile of an Oxford Don, as he gracefully ducks in and

out of the machine, inspecting plates and printing cylinders.

The boy rises now.  Sets his apple carefully aside.  And under his

father's supervision, takes his place operating the press.  His

arms inches from the fearful clatter of the rollers.

Watch Ishmael running the monster, coolly, efficiently, with

complete concentration.

Arthur turns away, lest his son feel a lack of confidence.  Picks

up the boy's apple.  A crisp BITE.

EXT. MAIN STREET, AMITY HARBOR - SUNSET

Arthur and Ishmael, now 17, strolling Main Street in the midst of

what seems a festive carnival.

They are passing modest parade floats, booths with food and games.

A genial crowd of farmers, fishermen, families, both races

heedlessly mingling.  A community.  Arthur unselfconsciously slips

his arm over the shoulder of his tall son.

Up ahead, a crowd has gathered at the steps of the courthouse.

Something's up.

As we approach, we see a ceremony begin at the top of the

courthouse steps.

We are there now.  Arthur pulling down the same box camera Ishmael

would use years later.  Focusing up at the MAYOR, as he places the

crown on the radiant young girl...

And as the applause ripples through the crowd.  As the Strawberry

Princess acknowledges her subjects, her eye falls on...

...Ishmael.  She drops him a wink.  And a special wave.

EXT. SOUTH BEACH - DAY

Two 14-year-olds alone on a beach.  Digging for clams in the mud.

Ishmael pulls back from the deep hole, to make room for Hatsue to

reach down.  We can see her fingers explore the shell of the dug-in

geoduck clam.

They are digging now, together.  Carefully.

Gently, she begins to dislodge the clam from its lair.

She lifts it clear.  And as she admires its size and roughness with

her fingertips.  As she washes it in the shallows.  He watches her

movements.

The words make her turn.  Not startled, exactly.  Alerted.  But

neutral, without affect.

There is no answer.  He leans slightly closer, and she looks

down.  This is the moment.  Afraid and driven, he moves slowly

to her face.  And puts his mouth against hers.  She lets him and,

encouraged, he pushes harder, making Hatsue...

...lose her balance, and planting a hand beneath the water to

support herself, eyes closed too tightly, she kisses Ishmael for a

long moment, before...

...leaping up, snatching her clam pail and running AWAY down the

beach like a deer.  He stands slowly.  To watch her go.

His face is slack and unsmiling, but he is helpless with happiness.

Contemplating this truth.

EXT. IMADA FARM - DUSK

Ishmael crouching at the edge of the farm, in near-darkness.

Across the distance, the screen door opens, light slips across the

porch.  Hatsue appears with a wicker basket, to take the laundry

from the line.

He watches, rapt, as she unpins and folds the clothes, clenching

the clothespins in her teeth.  Then reeling the line again, elegant

hand over elegant hand...

She corrals the long sweep of her hair, knotting it deftly, before

heading inside.

EXT. STRAWBERRY FIELDS - DAY

Children working fields in sunlight.  Kneeling in the rows.  Hatsue

with a half-dozen Japanese girls, her hair loose, her face lightly

sheened with sweat.  She works with efficiency and grace, filling

her flat.

Three rows away.  Ishmael watches.  The fear not far beneath the

surface of his quiet, dark features.

Hatsue's gaze drifts slightly in this direction, and Ishmael looks

DOWN rapidly at his work.  Cheeks burning, certain she is watching.

Which she is not.

LATER...end of day.  The young pickers turning in their flats as a

gentle rain begins.  Hatsue counts her money, slips it into her

pocket, and...

...runs lightly off, into the growing rain.  Ishmael sees.

Stricken to his soul with longing.  And indecision.

EXT. CEDAR GROVE - DAY

Hatsue, drenched, alone with her thoughts in the protection of

the hollow cedar.  The rain is driving now, and she glances up.

At something we don't see.  And watches it.  Finally...

PULL BACK to see him.  Rain pelting off his poor soaked form.  She

is waiting for an answer.  So...

She pulls her hair behind her ears.  A movement which stretches her

body.

She starts refastening her hair now, looking away.  He comes

inside, crouches as respectfully far from her as he can.  Which is

close.  He watches her, watches her, and...

No reaction.  As if she hasn't heard.  Now his heart is beating

straight through his chest.

She picks up her damp straw hat.  And, eyes down, tracing a finger

around its brim...

His heart bursts within him.  And he struggles to keep it from his

face.  Even though she isn't watching.

She turns her face to him, and offers a small smile.  It is

genuine, and therefore dazzling to the boy.  She lies back on

the ground.  Her eyes so unafraid and direct.

He swallows.  Staring at her lying there so comfortably.

Ah.  Better.  They are both grinning now.

Her eyes flicker.  The synapse that a woman can offer a man.

And touches his hand.  With her fingertips.  The barest whisper...

Thus invited, he leans down over Hatsue.  Kisses her mouth with all

the tenderness in him.  This time, her eyes close gently.  And her

body arches slightly, into his.

Rain POUNDING now.  A curtain of water, sealing them from the

world.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

CLOSE on Ishmael, once more in the row of reporters.  Absently

kneading the stump of his amputated arm.  The way some men drum

their fingers.

ETTA HEINE is a linebacker in a dress.  Stout and German and wary.

She is 57, and pulls her hem down tight below her knees.

Said not with pride, but regret.

INT. HEINE FARMHOUSE - DAY

Etta twenty years younger, watches stoically from the parlor

window, as her husband CARL SENIOR strools the strawberry fields

with Kabuo's father Zenhichi.  Carl is a huge rawboned man, and

puffs a pipe as Zenhichi stops, sweeps his arms this way and that.

Etta knows trouble when she sees it.

INT. KITCHEN - LATER

Etta pours her husband's coffee.  It is very quiet.

She walks about the kitchen with her arms folded.  Too upset to

be still.

Etta turns sharply.  Glares at the big man.  He just blinks

blandly, puffs his pipe.  She can see this ship has sailed.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hooks pacing, slow and calm.  This part needs to be clear.

She folds her hands.  Looks Kabuo square in the eye.

INT. FARMHOUSE KITCHEN - DAY

Carl Sr. and Zenhichi sit at the table.  There is coffee.  But it

is untouched.  Etta watches by the stove.

Carl lights his pipe.  Compassion in his broad weathered face.

And sure enough, Zenhichi produces a neat stack of bills.  Puts

them on the table.

The small man spreads the bills out.  On the table.

And everything.  Stops.

Zenhichi keeps his anger within.  His face is stone.

But Carl is staring at his wife.  She stares right back.  Carl

turns, slides the money toward Zenhichi.

INT. PARLOR - TWILIGHT

Silence.  Palpable.  Two figures sit at opposite ends of this

darkening room, each under a lamp.  Carl Sr. is reading the paper.

His face is stone.  Etta at a small writing desk strewn with bills

and ledgers.  Her face is angry.

A screen door opens.  Slams shut.  Big footfalls coming.  No one

looks up.

He stands in the doorway.  A bamboo fishing road in his giant hand.

And his parents stare back him.

The big young face is stunned, hurt.

The boy looks to his father.  Who says nothing.

Crestfallen, defeated, the boy backs away.  Hear his footfalls.

The screen door SLAM hard.

And Carl Sr. looks at his wife.  No sound, until...

The words are flat and straight.  Etta stoic.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hooks settles back.  His butt on the edge of the prosecutor's

table.  The soul of patience and clarity.

And straight back...

She nods.  That's all there was to it.

Straightens her spine.  To deliver the clincher...

Hooks pauses.  As if drinking this in.

Kabuo watching the woman.  Eyes as hard as her own.

INT. ETTA'S APARTMENT, AMITY HARBOR - DAY

Kabuo stands at the open door.  No one is inviting him inside.

And there it sits.

Kabuo stands.  Calm, unblinking.

SLAMM.  The door has closed in his face.  And Kabuo stands there.

As if deciding.

Whether to break it down.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hooks standing at the jury box now.  Looking at them, as he asks...

She looks up.  As if trying to recall.

Hooks stares at the jury.  Holds the moment.

And goes slowly back to his seat.  Nels waits until his opponent is

seated.  Then, rises.

The old man wears a thin, cold smile.

HOLD on Kabuo.  As he watches Etta rise heavily from the box.

EXT. DEEP FOREST - FIRST LIGHT

Mist of moments before dawn.  As tendrils part, there is enough

light to see...

...eyes.  They are Asian.  They are razor-keen.  PULL BACK to

reveal...

...Kabuo alone in G.I. gear and helmet.  Rifle up high, sweat

on his face, moving soundlessly, turning in a circle as he goes,

until...

...he stops.  A heartbeat of silence.  Then...

...the BLAST of automatic tracer TEARS through trees, as he WHIRLS

and RETURNS FIRE in a single motion, until...

Silence.

His heart is pounding.  He waits.  Waits.  Weapon at the ready, he

pushes THROUGH the dense foliage to see...

...the 15-year-old German SOLDIER, splayed on the forest floor, his

chest torn and bloodied.  Kabuo's gaze LOCKS with the boy's.  The

young soldier's empty left hand reaches out in a a plea, and as

Kabuo steps forward, the boy's right hand comes suddenly...

...INTO view, metal GLINTING in motion, as Kabuo...

...BLOWS the boy AWAY with staccato rifle BURSTS that JUMP the

already-lifeless body like an electric jolt.  And falling from the

kid's hand, not a pistol, but...

...ID TAGS.

No expression on Kabuo's face.  None at all.  He moves on.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

OLE JURGENSEN wobbles slightly in the witness box, hands resting on

the cane planted unsteadily between his frail legs.  His eyes leak

water, his beard is wispy and unkempt.

Hooks nodding.  Nodding.

Hooks pauses.  Lets that sink in.

The old man's head bobs.  Recalling.

Hooks smiles.  As if he would be happy, too.  Anyone would be.

EXT. FARMHOUSE PORCH - DAY

Ole sits in a wicker chair at a wicker table.  His wife LIESEL is

setting out cold drinks.  But their visitor stands rigid,

disbelieving.

Kabuo is thunderstruck.

Kabuo nods.  His voice is soft, but his eyes are steel.

He looks so odd, perhaps he's ill.  Liesel looks concerned.

INT. COURTROOM - EVENING

The witness box is empty.  The snow outside the windows is falling

in darkness.  And Judge Lew Fielding is leaning his frame toward

the jurors...

He smiles softly.

Slight pause.  To make sure they are listening.

Gavel CRACKS down.

INT. COURTHOUSE CORRIDOR - MINUTES LATER

Hatsue walks briskly down the crowded hallway, her eyes searching

the benches lining the corridor ahead.  Her view obscured by the

crowd hurrying to fight the storm.  Suddenly...

...she stops.  Because there.  On a bench.  Sits Ishmael.  Next to

him, a round Japanese-American baby boy of 11 months.  Before him,

squat the boy's sisters, eight and four.  All are watching

Ishmael...

...manipulating a COIN.  It rolls across his knuckles and back

again, with amazing dexterity.  Then, he snatches it into his palm.

Holds up his fist.  All little eyes are glued.  The fist...

...opens.  It is EMPTY.  There are GASPS.

They don't.

The four-year-old LAUGHS.  Her big sister socks her.  And Mom steps

in.  The man looks up, with the sweetest smile.

Hatsue is not smiling.  Nor is she angry.  Even awkward comes to

her in a graceful way.  She scoops up her son.

And without even glancing at him, she heads off at a brisk pace.

The girls following.  The four-year-old turning back to wave once.

And then they are gone.

INT. JAIL - NIGHT

Kabuo stands outside the open steel door of his tiny cell, as Abel

Martinson clumsily unfastens the manacles.  A cot, a toilet without

a seat, a bare bulb hanging from a wire.  No windows to the outside

world.  Only the small barred one in the cell door.  As the

manacles fall away...

...Abel removes two objects from his pocket.

Hands him two CANDY BARS.  A Snickers.  And a Baby Ruth.  Kabuo

looks at them...

In spite of himself.  Kabuo smiles.  Remembering...

INT. JAIL - DAY

Kabuo sits in jailhouse overalls on the edge of his cot.  Motion-

less.  On a private journey of the mind.  The door CLANGS open...

Kabuo looks over.  That flat, unsmiling gaze.  The old man has a

folded chessboard and a Havana cigar box under his arm.  Their eyes

lock, as if the Sheriff weren't even here.  And Moran leaves,

closing the door with respectful quiet.

Nels doesn't smile, doesn't speak.  Opens the chessboard on the

cot.  Opens the cigar box filled with chess pieces, two cigars,

a Snickers and a Baby Ruth.  He puts the candy bars by Kabuo's

pillow, a silent gift.  Begins to set up the chessboard.

And offers one up, rough and black.

Kabuo smiles only with his eyes.  Nels nods, maybe you better.

Lights his own cigar.  Puts the matches and the other cigar at

Kabuo's side.

That seems answer enough for Nels.  He turns the board around to

where he has white, and makes the first move.

Kabuo picks up the cigar.  STRIKES a match.

...........................................................

white.  Kabuo moves a black bishop.  Nels' eyes shoot around the

table.  He reaches and KNOCKS OVER Kabuo's black king.  Kabuo

blinks, studies the board silently.  Then smiles.

He unwraps the Snickers bar.  Breaks it in half.  Hands one piece

across to his lawyer.

SERIES OF ANGLES...

RAPID CUTS, different days, Nels in different suits, chess pieces

in different positions, each time Nels reaching to topple Kabuo's

king.  The last time...

Kabuo has to study the board for a beat.  Shakes his head.

And leans his old bones back against the hard wall.

Pulls out two cigars.  Kabuo looks at them.

No smile.  Steady gaze.

Hands one cigar.  Across the chessboard.

Takes the cigar.  Rolls it between his thumb and forefinger.

STRIKES a match.

Reaches stiffly.  Kabuo bends toward him.  Accepts the flame.

Takes a puff.

Kabuo says not a word.

Brings the match to his own cigar.  Careful.  Expert.

Worlds within those words.

And in those.

Shakes his head.

A flicker.  Behind the defendant's eyes.

A smile now.  Very kind.  Very sad.

No, you weren't.  And in the gentlest voice...

He sighs.  But...

And the old watering eyes are rock steady now.

There is a silence.  And then...

They let that sit.

He won't let hs eyes lie to this man.

Silence.

Nels sees the rage.  It breaks his heart.  It makes him feel old

and helpless.

What he stares at now.  Is a neutral mask.  As powerful and opaque

as the voice is quiet.

INT. ISHMAEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Through glass, snow is tumbling in endless cascades, the world

dwarfed by a descending heaven.  A sound, a strange soft CLICK.

PAN across...

...the small, well-kept bachelor apartment.  Neat stacks of books

on the floor, catching the overflow of shelves crammed full.

Someone likes to read.  Another soft CLICK.  To...

...the kitchen now, along the floor.  An awkward high-top SHOE, its

buckled straps above elastic LACES that fasten across the instep.

The shoe steps on a crude wooden PEDAL.  And we hear another CLICK.

PAN up along a vertical strip of mesh WIRE to...

...a plywood CONTRAPTION, held by a partially closed drawer.  A

piece of spring steel holding a set of NAIL CLIPPERS.

Ishmael inserts his pinkie carefully.  CLICK.  Finishes clipping

the fingernails of his only hand.  And looks out.  At the magic of

white.

EXT. HOLLOW CEDAR - DAY

Safe within their haven, the 18-year-olds kiss and hold each other

urgently.  Their tongues exploring each other's mouth, her legs

open beneath her skirt, pressing her body up against him.

ANGLE...later, they lie so quietly.  Her head nestled in the crook

of his arm, he gently plays with her hair.  Her face so still, so

thoughtful and grave.

Ah.  Her dark eyes flicker.

She cuts the irony by sending her fingertips to stroke his.

And kisses her head.  But her eyes still stare off into the tangle

of her worries.  He draws a breath...

His light tone against the fear...

She winds her fingers with his.  Loyalty against her doubt.

Very soft with...

INT. SCHOOL BUS - DAY

Hatsue sits with the Japanese kids.  Ishmael with his friends.  The

bus filled with stone-faced teenagers listening to the DRIVER, who

brandishes his newspaper at the Japanese side of the bus...

And pauses.  His eyes moving from one Japanese face to the next.

Are you listening?

Stares them down.  Until, from across the bus...

The driver's eyes snap around.  The tall boy is waiting.

Ishmael sees the anger.  He's not afraid of it.

INT. SAN PIEDRO REVIEW - LATE NIGHT

The horrid CLANGING of the great rattletrap press, Arthur Chambers

ducking nimbly among the rollers.

Print flying onto paper as it rolls through the green metal

gauntlet.

Belary-eyed Ishmael, pulling finished copies from the bin.  As

he stacks them for delivery, he reads aloud, above the CLASH of

metal...

Big yawn.  It's really late.  He turns, and sees...

...his father.  Staring at him.

EXT. WOODS - TWILIGHT

They walk slowly up the path.  An arm around each other's waist,

their bodies brushing as they go...

She stops.  By a weathered fence, covered in vines.  It's growing

dark.

She sighs.  He moves close, looks so grave.

What can he say.

He reaches.  Touches this face that he loves with all his heart.

Forces up a smile.

She leans up.  CROSSES her eyes in a goofy expression.  Then kisses

his mouth.  When she pulls back...

And she studies this boy.  Knowing more than he can ever

understand.  And chooses to whisper...

INT. IMADA FARMHOUSE - NIGHT

Hatsue and her older daughter are setting the farmhouse table, as

snow drifts down beyond the window.  Plates and flatware.  Glasses

and napkins.  Slowly, in silence, as if a ritual bonding mother and

daughter.  She glances to the next room...

...her mother Fujiko plays with the babies.  Her father HISAO reads

the paper.  Smoking his pipe.

And Hatsue is motionless for a moment.  Watching him.

INT. IMADA FARMHOUSE - DAY

CLOSE on Hatsue at 18, staring with silent anger greater than her

fear.

PULL BACK to see the room.  Hatsue and her sisters side by side,

staring at the table.  On it rests a shotgun, four boxes of shells,

a ceremonial sword.  An FBI AGENT, a small man in a dark suit, is

tagging each item.  He wears a light, perpetual, insincere smile.

Fujiko at her husband's side.  She is quietly indignant.  He is

frightened.

And walks over to the tansu, a chest of drawers, and begins to

remove items...

...a silk kimono with gold brocaded sash...

And lays it on another table.  Next to a bamboo flute, a stack of

shakuhachi sheet music.

Hisao sees his wife's sudden alarm.  And, as respectfully as he can

manage...

And sees on the sofa, an open album.  Strolls over.

So he picks it up.  Doesn't see Hatsue stiffen with repulsion, as

he wanders, thumbing through it, toward the hallway...

And chuckles.  He knows they appreciate a joke.  It means there's

nothing to be afraid of.  Stops turning pages now.  Looks up, his

eyes moving until they find Hatsue.

The soft slamming of a screen door.  Another AGENT, large and

shambling in his too-small suit, is carrying a crate.  And a

telling look.

And the crate BANGS onto the table.  Just beside the kimono.  Lifts

out two sticks and holds them high.  Proof.

The small man's smile fades now.  First time.  And his eyes fix

Hisao before he speaks.  As if reading his mind.

Fujiko slips her hand into her husband's.  To give him strength.

Slight shrug.

Fujiko's breath catches.  One of the daughters whimpers.  The

silence hangs thick and frightening.  The bigger agent unhooks a

pair of handcuffs from his belt, but...

The younger girls are crying now, clinging to their sisters.  The

agent regrets this.

Ain't that right?

He puts his hand on Hisao's arm.  Not roughly, but much firmer than

the ease of his voice...

INT. FARMHOUSE KITCHEN - NIGHT

Eight pages of a letter, carefully written in Kanji characters,

folded neatly on a table.

PULL BACK to see mother and five daughters around the table.  Even

the youngest girls somber, attentive.  As if they have aged these

past few weeks.

The silent wake of her outburst, her interruption, lingers.  Her

mother studies her.

Her voice so loud, so insistent.  Her sisters are afraid for her.

To have shown such disrespect.  They look down at their hands.  Or

away, as if not hearing.

The room is still as the grave.  The mother's eyes burn silently.

What does she know?  Hatsue's heart pounding.  And to her surprise,

her mother's voice softens...

The stern warning, the unrelenting judgement, has become a plea.

INT. ISHMAEL'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Ishmael washing his supper plate.  His fork and knife.  His coffee

mug.  His skillet.  Hard labor with one hand.  And as he works, he

looks at...

...the window above his sink.  Darkness and moonlit snow.  And his

own reflection.  CLOSE on his face in the glass, and MATCH DISSOLVE

to...

INT. SAN PIEDRO REVIEW - NIGHT

...Arthur Chambers.  Weary.  Worn behind the smile of knowing ease,

as he sips coffee from a mug of his own.

His boy sits across from him in the silent press room.  Feet up,

reading their paper.  Its headline, ISLAND JAPANESE ACCEPT ARMY

MANDATE TO MOVE.

Ishmael has heard this gently prodding word all his life.  He

sighs.

The boy looks dryly at his father.  SLAPS the page with the back of

his hand.

Arthur closes his eyes.  Recites from memory...

A smile in the voice.  A sad one.

Now the smile is on his face.  Even sadder.

Silence.  Two men.  Watching each other.

A deeper silence.

Toasts his son.  With coffee.

A wink.  A swallow of Joe.

EXT. HOLLOW CEDAR - DUSK

They lie so close.  Their bodies touching, not moving.  Their faces

inches apart, so that every word is a murmur...

He's never seen her this fragile, this scared.  He knows he has to

be strong for her.

He unties her hair.  So gently.  Tries to keep his smile calm,

steady...

He brings his face to her hair.  Kisses it.

Her eyes are wide.  They move over his face.  A murmured...

He looks in her eyes.  And words come from his heart, before he can

stop them...

Her eyes fill with tears.  Are they from happiness?

Her face so still.  One tear falls, and he kisses it.

No answer.  Not knowing what to say, she winds an arm behind his

head, and brings him nearer.  His mouth opens into hers, with more

force, more of his heart, than he has ever given.  Deep and tender.

His hands reach beneath her dress...

...peel her panties down her thighs...

And suddenly, he is OVER her, drawing her legs up around him...

Her head tilts back, her eyes squeeze closed.  And as he enters

her...

...her hands GRASP his upper arms.  And push away.

And he blinks.  As if waking from a dream.  Everything has stopped.

Her face is strong and yet overflowing with regret.

So he draws away.  Stunned, uncomprehending.  Watching with blank

eyes, as she stares up at him.  Then, with dignity and tenderness,

he helps her dress, his eyes awkwardly away from hers...

She draws her legs up.  Kneeling now, putting her hands on his

face...

But no words come.  No words.  Until...

And KISSES him fiercely, and BOLTS up before he can grab her,

RUNNING off like a deer, while he...

...kneels.  His mouth open.  Like a silent scream.

EXT. AMITY HARBOR FERRY - MORNING

An army truck pulls up behind several others in cold morning air.

Hesitantly, looking in all directions, Fujiko, Hatsue, and her four

sisters climb from the truck, to see...

...a ferry, the KEHLOKEN, stands waiting.  Soldiers are dis-

tributing tags for luggage and coats.  The evacuees, mostly women,

stand in the cold, trying to smile bravely for each other.  And

lined against the railing...

...a cluster of white islanders gawking as their Japanese neighbors

file toward the ferry.  A middle-aged woman waves to Fujiko, who

casts her eyes down, refusing to acknowledge the greeting.  And

just as they reach the gangway...

...Hatsue sees Ishmael, who stands at an unobtrusive distance,

among a group of students.  She pauses.  Her eyes hold his for a

heartbeat...

The wisp of a smile.  And she is gone.

EXT. IMADA FRONT PORCH - NIGHT

Hatsue comes alone onto the white-blanketed porch.  Snow is no

longer falling.  She takes out a cigarette, lights it impassively.

The mannerisms make her seem fully American, despite the porcelain

impenetrability of her Asian exterior.  She closes her eyes, and...

...draws deep on the smoke.  The act seems to cause her pain.  When

the eyes open, they are frightened, unguarded.  Nowhere to turn.

The next puff looks desperate, and she FLIPS the cigarette out onto

the snow.  Jams her hands in the pockets of her parka, stamps her

feet against the cold, the helplessness.  And looks out...

...strawberry fields, endless and white, shimmering in filtered

moonlight, become...

EXT. MANZANAR INTERNMENT CAMP - NIGHT

...a moonlit DESERT.  PAN the barbed wire, the distant barracks,

the desolation.  Come to...

...two women walking alone.  The younger one glancing at her mother

as they go.  Fujiko's eyes unreadable, stare implacably ahead.

The barracks, everything, in distance behind them.

No sarcasm in the voice.  She lets the words carry her irony.

Her mother stops.  Looks at her so directly, so strong.  Even her

tough-minded daughter flinches slightly.

Fujiko thinks that over.  Nods.

She goes over to a large, flat rock.  Sits down.  Pulls two sheets

of paper from her coat.  And waits.  As her daughter comes and

crouches at her feet.  Fujiko clears her throat.

And watches.  As the shard of fear penetrates her daughter's mask.

Silence.  Then...

Hatsue has turned to stone.  To ice.  Wind blows.

Fujiko scans the page silently.  Turns to the second...

And looks up.  Her eyes calm, quiet.

The look holds.  And holds.

Anger only at the edges.  Like finely-honed steel.

The wind swirls a cloud of dust between them.  They seem not to

notice.

She pulls out a single page.  Hands it down to her daughter.

Hatsue's eyes move quickly over the words.

Watches her daughter reading.  And quietly...

Silence.  Hatsue's eyes cast down.  She folds the page.

And stops.  Because Hatsue is TEARING the page in two.  She looks

up.  Into her mother's shock.

Her mother's anger fades.  Into interest.

Never love.  The mother's face changes.  There is understanding,

acceptance.  Even pride.

A sigh.  A sadness deep, beyond her years.

INT. BARRACKS - NIGHT

Mother and daughter enter their crude quarters.  They find Hatsue's

sisters sitting on the wooden floor, watching...

...a team of young MEN, working with tools and pieces of lumber.

One is building shelves, two others, a chest of drawers.  Their

leader kneels tacking scraps of tin over the knotholes on the

floor.  One girl beams at her mother...

The leader grins and rises.  Bows slightly to Fujiko.  He is, of

course...

The woman smiles.  Bows slightly in return.

And glances.  To the eldest daughter.  In the doorway.

She looks back, without expression.  There is much on her mind.

His smile is handsome, easy.

She tosses her hair free of the parka.  Gathers it in her hands.

Saying only...

Can't win a smile, but he doesn't seem to mind.

EXT. APARTMENT HOUSE REAR PORCH - NIGHT

Ishmael steps from the building onto the rear porch.  He draws from

his coat a black CIGAR.  Box of matches.  The cigar goes into his

mouth.  With amazing dexterity...

...he slips a single match from the box, turns his face to the

wall, and still palming the box, STRIKES a match on the buckle of

his belt, bringing it smoothly to the cigar for a few critical

puffs before the match dies.  He turns toward...

...the fields.  Stretching treeless, endless, seemingly to the

horizon.  Bathed in filtered moonlight, they become...

EXT. TARAWA ATOLL - NIGHT

...the shimmering Pacific.  We are with Ishmael in an LCVP landing

craft, as his platoon enters Tarawa lagoon.  Bobbing past two

DESTROYERS firing in waves at the beach.  Ishmael and his platoon

mates watch with adrenaline-fueled fear as amphibious tractors draw

fire on the sand, one exploding in flame.

Men around him are shouting, cursing, jostling against each other,

frightened out of their minds, as SHELLS POUND the ocean, horrify-

ingly huge and near.

Suddenly their craft runs AGROUND on the hidden reef.  They are

still 300 yards from shore.

The SQUAD LEADER goes over the side, Ishmael and others follow,

struggling with 85 pound packs.  As Ishmael hits the water, the

squad leader is SHOT in the face, a man five yards from Ishmael has

the top of his head BLOWN AWAY, men are DROPPING in numbers under

the WITHERING BURSTS of fire, the deafening ordnance sweeping over

the SHRIEKS of terror and agony, and Ishmael...

...submerges behind his pack, splashing hard, keeping its bulk

ahead of him as a shield, until he can wade and swim and plunge

toward shore, as hellfire CRASHES everywhere, dead bodies floating,

machine-gun blasts WHIPPING the water's surface, Ishmael at...

...the shallows now, men rising to make a run at the seawall, being

CUT DOWN, Ishmael crouching in the water, watching other men draw

fire, and in a moment's lull, four of them and Ishmael...

...GO for it, lungs BURSTING, pounding MADLY up the sand, one

SHOT DEAD, another SCREAMS as his knee is blown away and goes down

writhing, as three men...

...MAKE IT to the wall.  Gasping, puking, shivering with cold and

fright.  They have no gear, no weapons.  One of them is Ishmael.

He looks back to...

Bullets FLYING everywhere, CHEWING up the sand.  The young man

twitching, pleading...

And flat against the seawall, three men watch.  Not daring to look

at each other.

EXT. SEAWALL - DAY

Ishmael and his companions have been joined by others.  Sixty or

so men mill in the shadow of the seawall.  The beach is littered

with dead marines and wounded, calling for help.  As Ishmael

glances up, a SERGEANT leaps ONTO the seawall, cigarette dangling

from his mouth...

Stands with his hands on his hips.  The men below him properly

mesmerized.

The words CUT OFF by the shell that RIPS THROUGH his spine, OPENING

his shirt front as he PITCHES forward FLAT upon the sand.

No one looks.  No one speaks.  It never happened.

EXT. SEAWALL - NIGHT

Ishmael has a carbine now and a field machete.  PULL BACK to reveal

300 MARINES all down the wall, a striking force assembled from the

survivors of multiple landings.

Every man lining up now, rifles at the ready.

They seem more resigned, or is it stunned numb, than terrified.

There is no interaction.  Each man dealing with his own insides.

And suddenly...

...squad leaders go OVER THE WALL, the firing ERUPTS, and three

hundred marines SCRAMBLE into the teeth of it, mortar and machine-

gun BARRAGE lighting the sky from the row of battered palm trees,

Ishmael SPRINTING, the man next to him goes DOWN, Ishmael TURNS

instinctively, and a shot...

...RIPS into his left bicep, SPINNING him OFF his feet in SLO-MO,

falling to dirt as all goes...

BLACK.

INT. SHIPBOARD OPERATING ROOM - NIGHT

Ishmael feverish, writhing unconscious against the straps that

hold him to a table.  All around him, a hell of men and blood

and doctors and limbs and shouted curses they never showed us

on M.A.S.H.

Ishmael LURCHES, his eyes pop OPEN, wild and bleary...

...seeing there, in a corner, on a pile of blood-soaked

dressings...

...his left arm.

He blinks at it.  Realizing at last that the arm is his...

An ORDERLY turns at the words.  Nods.  As if he knows.

His eyes squeeze shut.

INT. KABUO'S CELL - LATE NIGHT

CLOSE on a dark blue suit.  Clean shirt.  Hanging on a hook against

the green wall.  PAN ACROSS the bars in the cell door's tiny

window.  All is dark out there, and silent.  Here...

...the bare bulb glows.  Its light throws shadows of castles and

horses across the chessboard.

Kabuo cross-legged on the floor, alone.  His back erect.  His eyes

calm.  Stare at the pieces.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

Kabuo at 19 sits on the earth.  By a shovel.  By a lantern.  This

place is shielded by trees.  PAN across the ground to...

...his father.  Slowly, reverently, placing objects into burlap

sacks, beside a shallow hole in the earth.  Wooden swords, hakama

pants, a bokken, scrolls written with care.  Dialogue plays in

subtitled JAPANESE...

The father never looks at the son.  Only at his work.

The boy knows this.  Yet his entire being is focused on every word.

An elegant SWORD.  Its curved blade gleaming in the lantern light.

A separate sack, just for this.  Folded with respect.

It goes into the ground.  With the others.  He seems nearly

overcome now.  By some emotion that sweeps through him.  Prompting

the boy to murmur...

Meaning, be still.  So the boy is still.

The man gazes into the hole.  At his treasures.

And turns to his son.  To complete the words.

There is love.  There is strength.  There is no more to say.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Sheriff Moran sits in the witness box, blade-thin and fidgeting

ever so slightly.  Uncomfortable in the limelight.  In his hands

are four pieces of ROPE.

Holds it up for Hooks.  So the jury can see.

Ah.  Hooks nods.  Significant.

I see.  Hooks begins to pace.  Toward the jury.

EXT. THE ISLANDER - NIGHT

Kabuo kneeling at the battery well of his boat.  He is sliding a

new BATTERY into place.  Beside its older companion.  He bolts it

down.  Starts his engine.  He is visibly tense.  As he steps onto

the deck, he sees...

...two figures at the pilings.  Sheriff Moran makes a cutting

motion across his throat, as Abel moves to grasp the mooring line.

Kabuo doesn't move.  The tension has fled beneath the surface.  His

face now a mask.

He holds it up.  Abel looks uneasy, as if expecting anything.

Kabuo blinks.  As if hearing a foreign language.  Words that do not

compute.

Moran steps from the dock ONTO the boat, Abel awkwardly following.

And walks ahead into the cabin, shining his flashlight across

everything.  Kabuo follows, killing the engine.  And in the sudden

silence, Moran's beam finds...

...the still-open battery well.

Moran's light moves over the batteries.

And says no more.  Runs his beam once more around the cabin.

Off he goes.  Kabuo's glance goes to the open well.  Then follows,

noticing Abel Martinson prowling around the bow.  But in the stern,

Moran is shining his light.  Third cleat.  Port side.

So Kabuo slides the cover away.  They peer in.

He has the fishing GAFF.  Three-and-a-half feet long.  Steel hook

at one end.  Hands it to Moran.

Moran carefully examines the object.

Moran takes out a handkerchief.  Holds the gaff with it.

Kabuo's heart is racing.

Kabuo's face has gone dead.  Which makes it seem somehow fierce,

almost threatening.  And the sheriff is watching that.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Moran still on the stand.  The ropes are gone now.  His hands

interlock across his narrow thighs.

Art looks

See Nels now.  Avuncular as hell.  Bemused by Moran's annoyance.

Moran sighs.  Tries to be patient.

Everybody laughs.  Including Nels.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

DR. STERLING WHITMAN sits in his expensive suit, a giant of a man

whose towering frame ill fits the witness box.  His eyes are small

and blue, and carry the weight of superiority with practiced ease.

Nels nodding.  Seemingly unconcerned by this fact.

And the witness stops.  A curious question.  But Nels is waiting.

With an expectant smile.

Nels lifts the gaff off the table.  Looks at it.

And grasps the butt end.  Of the gaff.

Walks, dragging one leg just slightly, toward the box.  And holding

the butt of the gaff toward him...

Whitman won't be badgered.  His smile carries only a trace of

coldness...

Nels looks him over.

And turns his back.  Walks away.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hooks in pin-stripe serge today.  Pommaded hair, glossy wing-tips.

He is crisp.

First Sergeant VICTOR MAPLES wears his green dress uniform,

splashed with decorations.  Thick and powerful, no neck, razor cut.

The eyes are alive.

Hooks finds that interesting.  Begins to pace.

EXT. TRAINING FIELD, CAMP SHELBY, MISSISSIPPI - DAY

The squad of Nisei recruits, one hundred young Asian faces,

surround Sgt. Maples.  He paces before them, holding up a wooden

staff, looking in their eyes...

And Kabup steps forward.  Bows slightly.  Then salutes...

Maples stares.  Hard.

Kabuo stares back.  Blank.

Tosses Kabuo a wooden staff and a helmet.  A little hard.  As Kabuo

slips the helmet on...

Cut off in mid-word, Maples glares back.  Are you?  THRUSTS

sharply, but Kabuo moves just enough to slip the blow by no more

than an inch.  Their eyes lock.  Suddenly, Maples unleashes...

...a SAVAGE series of THRUSTS at blinding SPEED, and Kabuo...

...SLIPS them all effortlessly, scarcely seeming to move.  As a man

might toy with a child.  Maples studies the face for any trace of

mockery.  And sees nothing at all.  STABS out, only to have Kabuo...

...SLASH Maples' staff from his grasp, with a move so quick as to

be nearly invisible.  Maples clearly STUNNED by the display.

He bends, picks up Maples' staff, hands it to him.  And bows.

Slightly.  The sergeant is hot.  He looks into the faces of this

Nisei regiment, searching for a single smirk.  There is none.

And Maples LUNGES with surprising speed, to be SWEPT off his feet

in a BLUR, lying FLAT on the earth, his head PINNED to the ground

by the tip of Kabuo's staff.

A hush.  Kabuo withdraws his staff.  Retrieves Maples'...

And bows.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Maples smiling easily.  Like a guy telling the story in a bar.

Everyone laughs.  Maples the loudest.  Hooks smiles like a regular

Joe.

And the smiles are gone.  All around.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hooks sits against the prosecution table.  His demeanor gentle,

respectful.  His voice soft.

In the box, the widow sits in lovely dignity.  Blonde and alabaster

and modest, in her black dress of mourning.

In the press row, the boys are attentive.  An angle they know they

can sell.  Ishmael among them, watching with neutral eyes.

Hooks walks slowly toward her.  As if she were a precious object,

deserving of reverence.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

A bright bathroom, filled with STEAM, filtering the sunlight.  PUSH

toward the opaque shower door, TOWARD the sound of rushing water.

And of breathing.  THROUGH it to...

...Susan Marie and her husband.  Her arms are wound about his neck.

Her legs wrapped around his body, feet locked behind the small of

his back.  Carl holds her high with his strong hands, so he can

lick her breasts to the rhythm of the slow, slow thrusts.  Her wet

blonde hair is pasted across her face, and her eyes are closed.

The intensity holds us.

INT. PARLOR - MORNING

CLOSE on a paint brush.  It rests across the lid of a can of wood

stain.  See now...

...Susan Marie kneeling by the table she is refinishing.  But her

hands, her body, are motionless.  Her eyes stare out the window...

...across the yard.  Her towering husband walks beside a smaller

man.  Carl is doing the talking.  Kabuo's face is stone.

INT. PARLOR - LATER

Susan Marie sits quietly in a rocker, nursing her baby.  Her hands

tenderly stroke the feeding infant.  But her eyes are attentive.

Concerned.

Susan Marie knows.  What Etta would say.

See Carl now, pacing his own parlor like a caged bear.  Agitated in

a way we could not have expected.

Nursing her baby.  Calm, direct.

And Carl turns.  Looks at her.  A full beat.

He looks helpless.  Frustrated.  He doesn't want his anger to spill

onto her.

He leaves the room.  Without a word.  HOLD on her.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Susan Marie's cornflower eyes are set.  Wary.

She thinks about this.

Nels is nodding.  Nodding.

And then.  As if it had just occurred to him...

CLICK.  All the lights in the courtroom go OUT.  A loud murmur.  A

FLICKER of light.  Then, they go OUT again.

The crowd BUZZES, laughs, the gavel RAPS.  The lights come ON.  A

collective sound of relief.  The gavel AGAIN.  Finally, silence.

A silence.  A deep one.

She arches her throat.

INT. ISHMAEL'S DESOTO, CENTER VALLEY - TWILIGHT

Ishmael driving an aged DeSoto through the blanketed strawberry

fields of Center Valley.

He turns the wheel, using a cherry wood knob, specially mounted for

his convenience.

Following the curve, fields are pure white to the horizon.

Up ahead, a Willys station wagon has run into a ditch.  A middle

aged Japanese man is working at a rear wheel with a shovel.

The man is Hisao Imada, and we can now see his eldest daughter

working with a shovel behind the car.  Ishmael pulls up behind

them.  And gets out.

He crunches over to where Hisao works...

Hatsue has come around the car now, pulling her snowflaked hair

from her eyes.

Her eyes on Ishmael's profile, Hatsue goes to her father's side.

Murmurs to him in Japanese.  WHen he answers, she turns to face

Ishmael...

Ishmael smiles softly.  This car isn't going anywhere.  He goes to

Hatsue, reaching gently for her shovel.

INT. DESOTO, SOUTH BEACH DRIVE - TWILIGHT

Ishmael drives with Hisao beside him.

His eyes flick to Hatsue in the rearview mirror.  She stares out

the side window, concentrating on the world.  Two strands of wet

hair pasted against her cheek.

Suddenly, her eyes SNAP to meet Ishmael's in the mirror.  His dart

away.  Hers hold.

He keeps driving.  And he keeps his eyes on the road.

He thinks.  As he drives.  Hisao Imada silent beside him.

And his eyes come up.  Meet hers in the mirror.

She studies his face.

No smile.  On either side.

His eyes on the road now.  The farmhouse seen through the drifting

screen of white.

Her voice is soft.  The difference is palpable.

His voice is kindness and friendship.

EXT. COAST GUARD LIGHTHOUSE, POINT WHITE - DUSK

A tower of reinforced concrete, rising a hundred feet above the

sea.  Ishmael's hand in his pocket.  Trudging toward it.

INT. LIGHTHOUSE RECORDS ROOM - DUSK

Ishmael being led into a cramped room, stacked floor to ceiling

with wooden crates, file cabinets, duffel bags.  Our host is

LEVANT, a young Coast Guard radioman nearly six foot six, with a

huge Adam's apple, and kinky black hair.  He gestures around the

room at all the records.  Voila.

Ishmael looks around.  There is a

Ishmael nods.  Guess so.

Innocent question.  Random example.

And leaves.  Ishmael looks at the task before him.  Then, out

the window.  Dark now.  His reflection stares back.  As troubled

as he is.

INT. PETERSEN'S GROCERIES - DAY

Ishmael at 24, carrying milk and crackers down the aisle of a

grocery store, the empty sleeve of his mackinaw pinned up at the

elbow.  He turns the corner to see...

...three people in line at the register.  The second is Hatsue.  An

infant carried at her shoulder.

He joins the line.  The CHECKER glances his way, then looks

awkwardly down.  This makes the others turn.  And Hatsue's eyes.

Meet his.

The voice, the face, are cool and formal.  There is no anger, no

unkindness.  Only the absence of warmth.  Ishmael nods.  His face

hard, stricken.  His heart pounds in his throat.

No one knows where to look.  Down, away, anything.  But Hatsue

never blinks.

She holds her ground, her eyes soften, somehow.  Somewhere between

compassion and pity.  Her slender fingers stroke the baby at her

shoulder.

All the feeling comes to his eyes.  Everything he will never tell

her.  A murmur...

He drops his milk and crackers on the counter.

And walks away.

INT. LIGHTHOUSE RECORDS ROOM - NIGHT

Ishmael sits alone.  Beyond the glass, a SEARCHLIGHT sweeps the

sea, the snow-covered shore.  But Ishmael stares at a folder.  Open

in his lap.

His finger.  Traces a line of the report.

Ishmael closes his eyes.

He looks out through the glass.  As if he could watch it happen.

And Ishmael removes the page from the file.  Slowly, he folds it

into quarters.  Slides it into his coat pocket.

And closes the file.  Slips it back into the cabinet.  Levant

appears, vaguely irritated by the summons.  So Ishmael smiles.

Sorry, nothing important.

Ishmael's face.  Just to clarify...

Oh.  Ishmael nods.

Ishmael rises, stiffly.  Starts to pull on his coat.

And Ishmael looks at the youngster.  A little oddly.  Admits...

EXT. FLETCHER'S BAY - MORNING

Ishmael at 24, crouched among trees.  Above a sunlit stretch of

beach.

CLOSE on his face.  Eyes gazing down.  At something.

He sighs.  Rises slowly.

See Hatsue down on the beach.  Alone, raking for steamer clams.

Her baby beside her on a blanket, beneath an umbrella.

Ishmael walks down to the sand.  Crosses to where she works.  And

squats down.  At a respectful distance.

She must have seen who was coming.  Because the words do not

startle her.  Or slow her work.

Her back is to him.  She is motionless.

And she turns.  Her eyes go first to her sleeping child.  Then she

walks over, and sinks to the sand.  Just before him.  Near enough

to touch.

She looks in his eyes.  And waits.

The words just came out.  His eyes move over her face.  His aching

for her is naked, beyond his ability to cope.

He seems at the edge of insanity.  Or tears.

Sadness in her voice.  But strength as well.

His eyes swim with tears.  He chokes them back, he has to.

She absorbs this.  No sign of repulsion or anger.  Her eyes seem

wise.  And very sad.

She just keeps looking at him.  There is a bravery to her steady

gaze.  Her calm resolve.

His pleading look holds her for a moment.  In the silence...

Feeling behind her eyes.  First time she lets it show.

She rises slowly.  Brushes the sand from her skirt.

She takes one step back.

And turns away.  She gathers her baby in her arms.  Takes her

blanket, her umbrella, her rake and her pail.  He watches, never

moving, as she gathers her things.  Gathers them as if he wasn't

there.  And with her back turned...

She walks slowly away.  Her baby cries.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

CLOSE on a steaming soup kettle, resting on a woodstove.  A woman's

hand stirs with a wooden ladle.  PULL BACK to see...

HELEN CHAMBERS, slender and strong and keen.  She is not yet 60.  A

code of fairness and self-reliance is written on the fine-boned

features.

Beyond the window, snow falls more heavily than ever.  Silent.

Spellbinding.

Ishmael at the rustic table.  Watching her back.

Softer.  Not bitter, but regretful that...

She begins ladling the soup into big porcelain bowls.

And turns.  Looks at him.

She studies him silently for a moment.  Then brings the bowls to

the table...

Sets them down.

She takes her seat.  As he watches her.

She begins to eat.  Eyes on her bowl.

She looks up.  Straight to his eyes.

No mistaking her meaning.  He swallows.  Uneasy as always, in the

path of her disapproval.

The directness of her gaze.  He can't turn from that.

He doesn't flinch.  His voice too quiet with...

Too quiet to conceal the hurt.  She thinks it is hurt she has

caused.  It changes her tone to a plea...

Their eyes locked.

And now he looks down.  He sees that his fist is tight around the

handle of his spoon.

His fingers open, and the spoon clatters softly on the wood.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Ishmael wanders through a silent room.  A bed, a dresser.  Work

table and lamp.  A room denuded of all decoration, all possessions,

all sign of life.

EXT. VETERAN'S CEMETERY - DAY

Ishmael at 24, the left sleeve of his dark suit of mourning pinned

at the elbow.  The diggers are filling a grave in distance.

Mourners mingle, some casting glances back at Ishmael.  Keeping

their distance out of awkwardness rationalized as respect.

One man comes to him.  MASATO NAGAISHI is aging and frail.  But his

voice is clear...

He stands at a respectful distance.  Ishmael clears his throat.  He

nods, thank you.  No words to say.  So the small man adds...

Silence.  They are a tableau of stone.  Finally...

And no more.  The man takes a step back...

Which changes Ishmael's face.  To something harder.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Ishmael stands at an open closet.  Cardboard boxes have been set

aside.  One has been searched for treasure.  The page is in his

hand.  Only slightly discolored by age.

He closes his eyes.

He carries the letter to the twin bed.  Where he slept alone.

Thinking of her.

He sinks slowly.  As if beneath the letter's weight.

His eyes are dry.  The letter has used up his tears long ago.

He sets the letter on the bed beside him.

He reaches now to his inside coat pocket.  Withdrawing...

...a page.  Folded in quarters.  Sets it near the letter.

He stares at them.  Side by side.

He lies back.  Across the bed.

Tears stand in his eyes.

Shuts the eyes.  Against them.  Against everything.

We CLOSE on his face.  The tightness of the muscles.

The eyes open, they are blank.  Staring...

...at the future.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Hatsue Miyamoto in the witness box. Graceful, erect, her porcelain

beauty accessible, eager to cooperate.  Humble.

And Nels seems slightly surprised.

Nels considers that.

She nods.  Only once.  Her eyes bright.

Nels raises his eyebrows.  To give the point its weight.

Nels lets that sit.  And sit.

The slightest pause.  As if hesitant to confess...

And Alvin Hooks rises.  Perches on the edge of the prosecutor's

table.  And looks at the witness with fairness and suspicion.

No impatience across her perfect features.  Only earnestness

will do.

Hatsue shifts in her chair.  Smooths her skirt.

She nods, he was.

Hooks pouts.  He allows himself that.

She weathers that last part.  As if taking no notice.

And he rises.  Tastefully indignant.

Silence.

She looks at him with the directness we've seen before.

Her eyes cut to Nels.  He smiles, to blunt the harm she's done by

looking to him for support.  Her gaze goes down now.  And then...

...back up.  Straight to Hooks.

Oh.  Hooks raises his brows.

And in the silence...

Anger flashes across her eyes.  Her face colors.  She draws a

breath...

She looks to Nels in her desperation and regret for making things

worse.  he chuckles and waves.  It's quite all right.  She sits for

a frozen moment.  And as she rises...

The boys in the reporter's row are scribbling furiously.

All but one.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

JOSIAH GILLANDERS folds his blunt, thick hands across his belly.

Nearly 50, sporting a walrus moustache and the watery, dull eyes of

an alcoholic, he is a man ready to make the most of his fifteen

minutes of fame.

Nels is wandering over to the jury box.

Gentle laughter.  Even some on the jury.

More laughter.  Hooks at his table.  Simply smiles.

Nobody.  No way.

Gillanders grins.  Wide.

Another chuckle or two from the gallery.

And looks at the prosecutor.  Who rises, easily.  A most polite

fuck-you smile.  Hooks strolls now.  Slow and steady.  Straight to

the witness box.  Rests his hands on the rail.  Leans in.

And the smile on Gillander's face.  Stops.  Cold.

Gillanders.  Actually thinking about that.

A beat.  A cleared throat.

Once more, laughter.  Enough to bring the gavel DOWN.

Turns his back, walks away.

All eyes follow the prosecutor, as he sits.  Except for the

defendant.  His stare forward.  Recalling...

INT. KABUO'S CELL - NIGHT

Kabuo seated on the concrete floor of his cell, leaning back

against the wall.  Leaving the cot.  For his guest.

Kabuo watching.  Quiet.  Takes a breath...

The hardest.  Straightest.  Look.

Silence.

Nobody flinches.  Nobody blinks.

Do you understand?

Do you?

Kabuo's face is stone.  A warrior's mask.

There is no kindly smile tonight.  No candy bars.

Nels sighs.  Cocks his head just to one side.

The old man thinks about that.  Studies his client.

And then the feeling comes.  To the watery eyes.

EXT. SHIP CHANNEL BANK - NIGHT

Fog.  The sound of water.  Lapping at the hull of a boat.  The mist

drfits, revealing...

Eyes.  They are blue.  The heavy brows above them dark gold, matted

and damp.

PULL BACK to see him.  With his keroses lantern and his air horn.

PULL BACK to see him now, leaning on his gaff.  Squinting up.  At

the top of Carl's mast.  We follow his gaze to see...

See it now.  SWAYING as the helpless boat bobs in the night.

INT. CARL'S CABIN - LATER

CLOSE on a battery well.  One battery sits in place, one spot is

empty.  And...

...CRASH!  The butt end of a fishing gaff BANGS against the metal

flange.  Again.  Again.  AGAIN.  And as the next blow is STRUCK,

the huge hand...

...slips, and the soft metal SLICES Carl's flesh across his palm.

He stops.  Then SMASHES away, twice more.  We PULL BACK to see...

...two batteries lie above the well.  Carl sucks the blood from his

cut.  Then lifts Kabuo's D-6 into place...

Kabuo takes his gaff.  Heedless of Carl's blood on the butt end.

Carl looks up, still crouching above his well.

No response from Kabuo.  He stands above the larger man.  Silent,

neutral.  Waiting.

Which makes the big man smile.  Just a little.

A slight shrug.  Of giant shoulders.

Kabuo doesn't grin back.  His face shows nothing at all.

Kabuo's face remains impassive.  Patient.  And the big man squints

up into it.  Holding a handkerchief to his injured hand.

He is sorry.  And with that, Kabuo's face eases.  Becomes like

Carl's own.

Still no smile.  Carl staring up.

Carl laughs.  And Kabuo chuckles, right along with him.  Having

kept his poker face the longer.

The look between them now.  Is very wonderful.  In the subtlety of

its connection.

The handkerchief comes away from Carl's palm.  And rising, his hand

extends toward the smaller man.

The hands grip.  And they hold.  And the length of this clasp, and

the straightness of their gaze, and the silence of the moment.

Wash years away.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

CLOSE on eyes.  They are Asian.  Unblinking.

PULL BACK to see Kabuo in the witness box.  Ramrod straight.  Face

composed.

Turns to the jury.  Openly bewildered.

Turns back.  To the defendant.

No reaction from the defendant.  Nothing anyone can see.

A beat.

Silence.

We can just discern the anger.  At the edge of Kabuo's steady gaze.

Silence.

And Hooks smiles.  Loving it.  Walks toward the witness, stalking

him.

Hooks leans over the box.  Ever so slightly invading Kabuo's space.

Ah.  I see.

Kabuo looks at him, evenly.

Hooks steps back.  Looks the witness over.

Silence.  The judge staring hard.  Hooks never flinching.

Hooks turns his eyes to Kabuo.  Stares him down, so the jury can

watch Kabuo's implacable stare in return.  And softly...

Turns away.

As he returns to his table.  As Kabuo steps down from the box.

We PAN...

...reporters' row.  The boys are writing as fast as their hands can

move.  Only Ishmael is not writing at all.  He stares at the pad

resting on hsi right knee.  We CLOSE to see...

One word circled.  The word 'lantern'.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

Alvin Hooks stalks the jury box now.  Prowls before them along the

rail.  As their eyes follow.

Stops.  To make sure they understand.

Pacing again, hand trailing along the rail...

Raises his finger.  This must be heard...

And stops once more.  Places his hands on the rail.

Straightens up.  Shakes his head, ever so slightly.

Imagine.  Imagine that.

Counting off the facts.  One finger at a time.

Spreads his arms.  Wide.

A hush.  A murmur...

Looking into the eyes now.  Of each man.  Each woman.

And turns.  So that they will follow his eyes to Kabuo's stone-

hard gaze.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

PAN the jury, slowly, as they hear...

Nels stands very still.  Hands resting on the rail.  As calm and

quiet as his adversary had been dramatic.

Leans forward.  Just a little.

He picks out a housewife.  The youngest.  Smiles sadly, wisely.  As

her grandfather might.

His eyes widen.

Why?

And now.  he begins to pace, limping slightly, eyes down.

Slow.  Eyes on his feet.

He stops.  Looks at them.

The feeling wells in te old man.  It bleeds through the very

quietness of his voice.

Yes, you would.

He leans his elbows on their rail.  As if confiding to them across

their backyard fence.

Silence.

Looking in their eyes.  As if waiting for an answer.  They shift

their weight, fidget beneath his gaze.

He straightens his spine.  Winces slightly, with the pain of it.

The eyes are watering.  But the voice gains strength.

One step back.  Just above a whisper...

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

CLOSE on handcuffs SNAPPING into place.  Sheriff Moran checks their

snugness about Kabuo's wrists, as the crowd mills through the

courtroom in the wake of adjournment.  Grasping Kabuo's arm, Moran

begins leading him toward a small doorway just at the rear of the

witness box.  But...

...someone is there.  In the doorway.  And Moran's grip tightens as

they approach...

The edge on that, the ballsy undertone, throws him a little.

And she reaches past him.  To take her husband's hands.  She looks

in his eyes, as if they are alone.

Tears just flood her eyes.  Sudden, unbidden.  She holds tight to

her smile.  And to his hands.

He smiles.  A lovely, easy, cowboy-American smile.

ANGLE...from the gallery.  One man watches.  Watches as a woman

brings manicled hands to her lips.  And walks quickly away...

...toward us.  Straight toward us, in fact.  And when she stands

before us, her hands mangle her purse.  The eyes are hollow, flint-

edged.

She arches her throat.  As if facing a firing squad.

He reaches.  His fingertips find her shoulder.  She does not resist

his touch.

His hand comes away.  From his heart...

She nods.  Nods.  Her eyes filling.  Moving over his face.

He hears the emotion in her voice.  He swallows hard.

No, I can't.

INT. KABUO'S CELL - NIGHT

Kabuo sits on the cot, the way we have always seen him.  Alone in

his mind.  Footfalls.  Kabuo oblivious, far away.  The door CLANGS

open.

Turns to the visitor...

And Moran leaves.  The door CLANGS shut.  They are alone.  Only one

man smiling...

But the tall man doesn't.  Doesn't move.

Ishmael nods, awkwardly.  Acknowledging this.

Ishmael stares into Kabuo's earnest smile.

Kabuo blinks.  The man's tone is formal.  As if the offer of

friendliness is somehow rejected.

Kabuo's own smile has faded.  The mask has returned.

And Kabuo grins.  In spite of himself.

Ishmael leans back.  Against the door.

INT. SOMMENSEN'S WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Blackness.  The sound of wind.  Of water lapping at wood.  CLICK of

a key, springing a lock.  The SCRAPE of a large PADLOCK sliding

away.  A door CREAKS open, and from the sound of it, a large one.

Gray light seeps in.

See them now.  Three SILHOUETTES framed in thr barn's open doorway.

Against the night sky.

A soft CLICK, and the LIGHTS go on.  Such as they are.  A few

bare bulbs strung across the rafters of this towering ramshackle

enclosure.  A 50-year-old mildewed barn, built of creosoted

timbers.  This is a place for overhauling boats, with sea doors

facing the harbor.

Two BOATS are tied to wide-elbowed piers.  We've seen them before.

Abel Martenson leads the way.  Along soaking planks.

Moran snorts.  Points up to the cross spar, high on the mast of the

first boat.

Oh.  Moran swings his gaze up to the second boat.

Sure enough.  No lantern on the cross spar.  They keep walking.

They step across the gunnel.  Onto Carl Heine's boat.  Flashlights

working against the dim, eerie glow of distant bulbs, they enter

Carl's cabin.

Neat as a pin.  Ishmael scans the floor.

And points to the cup.  Sitting on the counter.

The sheriff glares at the boy.

And stops.  Because Ishmael's gaze has gone to a kerosene lantern.

In the corner.

But Ishmael is out the door.  Shining his flashlight.  Up the mast.

And they all squint up.  Shining their lights together.  Along the

cross spar.

That's what it looks like.  Many of them.

And he steps to the base of the mast.  Puts the flashlight in his

pocket.  Wraps his arm around the shaft of wood.

And wrapping his legs around the mast, he hoists himself up.

With all his strength.  Ishmael begins to climb.

Supporting himself with his legs, he struggles upward.

Up he goes, inching his way, Abel shining his flashlight.  Moran

swings his beam up, too.

And Moran is looking.  Saying nothing.  Now, Ishmael is there.

His light playing on it.  Bracing his full weight with his legs,

Ishmael fingers the scraps of rope...

Still supporting  himself with his legs, Ishmael pulls out his

flashlight...

...shines it DOWN on the deck.  Along the gunnel.  Just below the

mast.  And as we watch the circle of light move...

Still moving.  And in the silence, an absent...

INT. JURY ROOM - NIGHT

Eleven citizens around a walnut table.  Eleven.  Glaring at the

twelfth.

And the boat builder smiles amicably, rubs his gray beard.  No

other smiles.  Anywhere.

Folks turn to Burke.  What the hell are you talking about?

Everyone agrees.  Almost everyone.

Little anger in that.  It brings a silence.

INT. NELS' KITCHEN - LATE NIGHT

Nels in a ratty, frayed old robe, pouring hot water from a kettle

into mismatched cups.  His hair is wispy and wild, his eyes puffy.

He COUGHS horrible.  CLEARS his throat...

And drops tea bags into the cups with a splash.

Lisps over to the cluttered table.  Where his guest is waiting.

Nels sits.  Slowly.  Ishmael removes his bag.  Sips his tea.

No answer.  Ishmael keeps sipping.  Holding eye contact.

Nels' turn.  To sip his tea.

And he smiles.  A wonderful smile.

Another sip.

Nels watches the pain in that.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

The jury once more in the jury box.  PAN their faces.  The faces we

saw last night.

Edith Twardzik.  Burke Latham.  Alexander Van Ness.

See Ishmael.  Quiet, intense.  On the witness stand.

Nels thinks about that.  So the jury will, too.

A slight shurg.  Stating the obvious.

And then...

Nels smiles his grandfather smile.

Nels Gudmundsson nods to himself.  Takes a stroll over to the jury

box.  No limp today.  Something has put some spring in his step.

And turns.  Leaning his scrawny butt against the jury's rail.

He'll watch this with them now.

Ishmael settles in.  Here we go.

As if he really has forgotten.  As if he wants to know.

He's nodding.  Yes, that's right.

Nels' eyes are rapt.  His mouth is shut.  No way he interrupts this

roll.

A hush.

The words hang there.

Shakes his head.

Nels ponders.  Puts his hand to his chin.

CUT to the defendant.  Ramrod straight, nothing revealed in his

face.  And to his wife.  Elegant, erect.  Her eyes flooded with

tears.

Silence.

Ishmael nods.  No smile at all.

And Nels is walking now.  Toward the prosecutor's table.  Pulling a

small cellophane bag from hisinside pocket.

Lays the bag on the table.  Just in front of Hooks.  Turns to the

judge.

Turns to the prosecutor...

And just strolls on over to his seat.  Looks in his client's eyes.

How 'bout them apples?  Kabuo loves this old guy.  And right here,

he lets a little of that show.

Across the way, the prosector is rising.  He smiles.  Friendly,

almost amused.

There is a ripple of laughter.  But no smile on Ishmael's features.

His game face is on.  Come and get me, sucker.  And Hooks does

come, one step at a time.  Straight to the box.

No love lost.  And no pretense about it.  Hatsue Miyamoto sits with

her hand in her mother's.  Watching these men battle for her

husband's life.

Hooks smiles.

Hooks nods.  Yes, you do.

Right at his eyes.

The words ring with quiet, heartfelt conviction, that others cannot

fully appreciate.

And the prosecutor stops.  Confused for an instant by this

confession.  Until...

A heart-stopping hush.  As everyone, as Hooks himself, sees the

cehckmate.

The prosecutor looks like he's been slapped.  Like every act of

will is necessary to maintain composure.  To find the easy,

untroubled smile.

Service returned.  Hooks leans in.

And leans in some more.

Shakes his head.

And once more.  The prosecutor can only blink.  Can only move

toward the trap.

No smile.  No smile as the trap springs shut.

He stops.  Lets Hooks clear his throat.

Turns to Judge Fielding.  With all respect...

And things get real quiet.

So much feeling in this.  He has to stop.  Swallow hard.

Tells the jury.  Straight to their faces.

Another level of quiet.  He turns to the prosecutor...

Words coming from someplace very deep.

Silence.

No sir.

And he smiles.  First time.

There is laughter in the room, so welcome is any chance to relieve

the tension.  The gavel BANGS.

Shakes his head.  No, it isn't.

His eyes are damp now.  Strangely enough, after all this.  He is at

last on the brink of losing control.  Because...

His voice breaks slightly.  But it rings with dignity on...

And the voice drops.  To just above a whisper...

INT. COURTHOUSE CORRIDOR - DAY

CLOSE on Hatsue Miyamoto, speaking earnestly, her eyes down, her

purse in her lap, her slender hands expressing the intensity of her

feelings as she makes her point, and we...

PULL BACK to reveal that she is on a corridor bench, surrounded by

a half dozen REPORTERS, who are crouching, standing, scribbling

away.  Two PHOTOGRAPHERS pop flashes that she does not seem to

notice, as she continues with refined determination, and we...

PULL BACK, down the hallway to the POV of a man who sits alone,

unnoticed.  There is an unopened pack of cigarettes in his only

hand, turning absently in long, strong fingers that crinkle the

pristine cellophane.  His eyes are fixed to hatsue, holding court

at a distance.  Fixed, as if no other sight could ever command this

level of attention.

Hearing the voice, Ishmael looks down.  Uneasy to have been caught

staring so intently.

No smile accompanies the irony.  For that would be condescending.

The old man sits.  Very slowly.

Ishmael tries to tear the cellophane without success.  Nels seems

not even to notice.

Ishmael's eyes cut to him.  A little quickly.  Confides...

There it sits.  His fingers claw absently at the cellophane.  Nels

makes no move to intervene.

Comfortable together.  In this hour of discomfort.  Ishmael brings

the corner of the pack to his teeth, and tears the cellophane away.

Fingers nimbly shred the seal, open the pack.

Shake the tips free.  Holds the pack forward.

The way he said that.  Subtly ominous.  Ishmael watching Nels'

face, as the old man takes two cigarettes...

Tucks one in his pocket.  And his eyes slide, unmistakably, to

Hatsue.

Ishmael is stone still.  Nels just gazing at Hatsue.  Until...

Looks back to Ishmael.  Very straight.

In the silence...

There it is.  Kindness in this old man's face.  He brings the other

cigarette to his lips.  And Ishmael takes out the match box.  Never

breaking eye contact.

Expertly, Ishmael's fingers withdaw a match.

Palming the box, Ishmael STRIKES the match.  On his belt buckle...

Reaches the flame toward the old man...

Nels leans to the flame.  Sucks it in.  Savors a drag.

Everywhere, the buzz RISES, there is motion an expectation.  But

Nels doesn't seem to notice.

Asked so casually.  Ishmael turns.  Hatsue is standing now,

surrounded by people, her mother grasping her arm.

He's watching her.  Across the way.  So intently.

We follow her approach toward the courtroom door.  She has not yet

turned to us.

Nels rises.  With great effort.

Ishmael's eyes still fixed to Hatsue, grim-faced, listening to her

mother's murmurings, as she...

...disappears through the door.  Never having looked our way.

And Ishmael's eyes come up.  Because the voice commands it.

The old man is stern and strong.  He wants a promise.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

The hush of a hundred silences.  We can feel the air crackle in the

stillness.  Judge Fielding is leafing through papers.  No one

coughs, no one blinks...

He looks up.  Across the distance, Harold Jensen rises in the jury

box.

And holds out a slip of paper.  Little more than a scrap.  Folded

once.

The bailiff does so, walking crisply to minimize his moment in the

limelight.  He hands the slip to the judge, who unfolds it, and...

...stops.  Staring for a hung instant.  As if seeing something

unexpected.  he folds it again, rather carefully, thoughtfully, and

as he hands it back to the bailiff...

Kabuo and Nels rise together.  But it is only into the defendant's

eyes that the judge stares.  No expression in the face of either

man.  But something passes, all the same.

As the bailiff crosses to return the verdict to the foreman, we

SNAP TO...

REVERSE ANGLE...every pair of eyes in the room are on the foreman,

now opening the slip of paper.

Every pair.  But one.

One reporter stares across the grain of all other sight lines.

Toward a woman who does not see him.  In case she needs his eyes.

To be waiting.

A sharp SCREAM, and the defendant's mother-in-law covers her mouth

in embarrassment.

APPLAUSE breaks out from the back row of the gallery, where

citizens of Japanese ancestry have forgotten custom and decorum,

as has...

...a woman who comes OUT of her seat, tears on her face, not

even realizing she is standing, Hatsue clings to the railing that

separates her from her husband.  Throughout the gallery, now...

...some of the citizens assembled add their applause.  Others look

awkward, not knowing how to react.

The gavel lies untouched, unnoticed, by a jurist who has no problem

with anything that is taking place right now.  Saying only to the

jury...

As they assent...

Reaches STRONG to the gavel, turns to the defendant...

CRACKS the gavel on its block.  The defendant is OUT of his chair,

and with one strong grip of gratitude to the frail shoulder of his

counsel, he is...

...AT the rail, through the POPPING of flashbulbs, she is IN his

arms, the embrace so FIERCE on both sides, everyone crowding around

them.

An old man's eyes sweep the gallery, looking for someone.  Only

to find...

...Ishmael's back.  As he disappears through the door.

INT. COURTHOUSE CORRIDOR - LATER

The Miyamotos holding court, surrounded by nearly twenty reporters

and photographers, and countless looky-loo's of all persuasions.

Hatsue's face is flushed and intense, unsmiling, she seems scarcely

to have caught her breath.  She holds tight to her husband's hand,

as he...

...carries his baby son in the other arm, his 8-year-old daughter

leaning against him, her 4-year-old sister standing on the bench

beside her mom.  Kabuo submits to questions with a boyish grin of

humility and friendliness.  An American family.  Photogenic as

hell.

Kabuo glances to his lawyer, wanna field this one?  But Nels sends

it back with a twinkle.

At his side, Hatsue seems to be scanning the jumble of faces...

...looking for something she doesn't find.

Her eyes move to the eager young man.  She reflects for a beat.

Which catches everyone.  A little short.

No apologies for the truth.  That's not her way.

INT. COURTHOUSE BASEMENT

A vending machine stands in silence.  The eerie strobing glow of

defective neon.  PULL BACK as...

Ishmael thinks it over.  Drops in his dime.  Pulls the plunger, to

watch a Snickers fall.  Scoops the candy from the tray, pins it

between his body and the machine.

...tears the wrapper.

INT. COURTHOUSE CORRIDOR

BACK to the reporters.  The crowd of onlookers has grown.

And brings his Parker pen to his notepad.  His subject smiles

easily...

There is gentle laughter.  And as Kabuo looks up, he sees something

in the rear of the crowd.  Something we do not.  And softly...

Which brings Hatsue's eyes up, following his gaze.  And there, in

the back.  A man watches.  Eating a candy bar.

No one sees their eyes lock.  It is only an instant.

It is enough.

And as she looks to the reporter, Ishmael begins to walk away...

And somehow, Ishmael catches the eye of Hatsue's 4-year-old

daughter.  So he pulls a coin from his pocket...

...Ishmael ROLLS the coin across his knuckles.  And the child

responds...

With her mother's smile.

EXT. COURTHOUSE STEPS - DUSK

Alone on the steps where the Strawberry Princess once winked at

him.  Snow has begun to fall, soft and altogether beautiful.  He

squints up...

Our place in things.  He slides a black cigar between his teeth...

He has the match box.  Manipulating it with the dexterity we've

come to know.

STRIKES the match on his belt buckle...

Cupping it expertly in a single motion, he brings the flame to the

cigar.  A single puff.

One more.  Savors it.  The sky.  The thought.

Down the steps.  Snow swirling between us.  Gone.

FADE SLOWLY TO BLACK.  ROLL END CREDITS.

