A high angle looking out over a well-manicured baseball field

carved out of a tropical jungle. A game is currently in

progress.

Wearing KANSAS CITY KNIGHTS uniforms, mostly Black and dark-

skinned Dominicans as well as several lighter-skinned

Venezuelans (17-22 years old) are set in their positions, poised

for the next pitch.

CLOSE ON the pitcher, MIGUEL SANTOS (aka AZUCAR/SUGAR - 19,

lean, Black and handsome). Sweat drips down his face in the

oppressive midday heat. He steadies his glove and ball at his

chest, peeking over at the RUNNER on first base. Miguel lifts

his leg high into the air, rears back his right arm, and FIRES

the ball toward the plate.

THUD! A cloud of dust pops off the CATCHER'S mitt as the ball

slams inside.

The BATTER lowers his head, helpless in the face of Miguel's

overpowering fastball.

FROM THE DUGOUT, Miguel's TEAMMATES CHEER him on. HEAD COACH

REYES (dark-skinned, 30s) nods approvingly, CLAPS.

BEHIND THE HOMEPLATE BACKSTOP, a dozen rookie players also in

Kansas City uniforms cheer for their team. Two YOUNG PLAYERS

clocking Miguel's pitches look at each others' radar guns, which

read 92 and 93 MPH.

As the next batter steps up to the plate, Miguel's catcher, JOSE

(18), taps his index finger on his thigh, calling for an outside

fastball.

The next pitch is popped up on the infield between first and

home. Miguel locates the ball, points to the sky, but Jose and

first baseman, PEDRO BERROA, nearly collide, as the ball lands

between them and the runners reach base safely.

ALVAREZ (light-skinned, late 50s) and several other COACHES and

SCOUTS jot down notes on their clipboards.

kicks the dirt.

Miguel looks in for the sign from Jose, nods, and delivers a

tight fastball that sends the batter stumbling backwards to the

dirt.

Some players LAUGH and heckle the batter. Others point angry

fingers at Miguel, who greets the batter back to the plate with

a friendly, but authoritative, grin.

He sends in the next pitch and the batter swings right through

it, getting nothing but air.

The TEAM (about 35 young men) gather around several tables for

their standard baked chicken and rice lunch. The mood is

friendly and playful as players tease each other across the

tables. Miguel, sitting with his friends MARCOS (2nd base) and

ALFONSO (3rd Base), works on a second helping of dessert.

For some NEW PLAYERS, distinguishable in the sea of BLUE

uniforms by their BLACK "tryout" jerseys and ragged sneakers, it

is their first healthy meal, and they eat as if it were their

last.   One of them, SALVADOR (Black, scrawny, 17) holds his

plate up to his mouth, shovelling food down his throat.

A few of the guys LAUGH.

The other guys "ohhhh" Miguel's insult, as Salvador and Miguel

exchange subtle grins.

Miguel helps Erica with the water bucket and walks with her

towards their home - a small wooden construction with peeling

paint and a rusted aluminum roof. On the lot next to their

house, the cinder-block frame of their future home dwarfs the

others on the block.

Miguel and Erica enter the house, where their brother LUIS (7)

watches an enormous television, which feels incongruous in the

middle of the tiny, dilapidated home. The reception is still

crappy, though.

Miguel's grandmother, ABUELA, sits upright on her mattress in

the corner of the room.

She smiles big at her oldest grandson, opens her arms for a hug.

Erica sits at the kitchen table, where her schoolbooks lay open.

Miguel's mother, CARMEN (late 30s) emerges from behind a hanging

bed sheet, which acts as a "wall" separating two rooms.

A GROUP of KIDS gather at the window.

Gathered under the only functioning street lamp, Miguel rears

back and throws in a swooping curve, that causes the BATTER to

flinch out of the way, as it breaks perfectly over the plate.

Carmen, Luis and the rest of the barrio ONLOOKERS, "oooohh", the

impressive curve.

Miguel notices a group of GIRLS eyeing him from across the

street. His eyes stop on one, SOFIA (17). They exchange grins.

Miguel's family - minus Miguel - watches a soap opera.     Carmen

and Erica are in dialogue with the TV.

The CAMERA PANS away from the family, out the back window, where

the new home is being constructed. We ZOOM IN on the structure

covered in plastic tarp.

Amidst tools, dry cement, a half-finished wooden dining table,

and other assorted construction materials, Miguel has sex with

Sofia on a work table.

Miguel throws on his t-shirt. Sofia looks at the wooden dining

table. It's artfully done, with details etched into the legs.

They kiss.

Miguel, Sofia, JAVIER (Black, 22) JAMIE (Black, 26) and

ALEXANDRA (one of Sofia's friends) hang out by the malecon

(waterside), drinking rum and dancing to merengue that blasts

out the open doors of a nearby car. The mood is festive.

Sofia punches Miguel in the arm.

Javier and the girls drunkenly salute Miguel's arm, pretend to

dust dirt away, but Jaime doesn't play along. He looks on, a

little jealous.

Everyone cracks up laughing, including Jaime, as Miguel grabs

Sofia, and leads her in a dance.

His smile fading, Jaime looks out over the water.   Miguel

notices this. Hold.

EXT. SAN PEDRO TOWN - MORNING

Various Sunday morning images establishing Miguel's hometown:

--A dewey mist covers an empty baseball field, surrounded by

acres of tall sugarcane.

--Women hang laundry on the line to dry.

--A rooster walks alone through a graveyard.

--People spill out of church into the road.

--MIDDLE-AGED MEN drink beer in the dugout during a softball

game.

A makeshift diamond is overrun with weeds, ditches, stones, and

trash for bases. Donkeys graze in the outfield, unphased by the

LITTLE KIDS (10-14 years old) playing around them.

A YOUNG PITCHER fires in a fastball that BEANS the YOUNG HITTER

in the back.

IN THE BLEACHERS, TWO MIDDLE-AGED MEN drink beer and

occasionally heckle the kids.

Nearby, Miguel sits beside his old coach, FRANK (early 40s),

watching the kids play. One of the local SHOE SHINE BOYS cleans

Miguel's shoes with an old toothbrush as Frank cracks open a

beer. Frank points out one of the kids on the field.

They laugh.

Miguel nods, a hint of disappointment in his eyes.

Miguel nods, appreciating the vote of confidence.

A mist hovers over the empty field.

A group of Academy EMPLOYEES shuffle down the dirt road on foot.

Miguel, laying awake in the upper bed, hears his bunk-mate,

Alfonso, stirring beneath him. Miguel peers over, sees Alfonso

discreetly pop several pills from a plastic baggy. They make

brief eye contact before Alfonso heads out of the room.

Several middle-aged women sit on buckets near an open door,

peeling yucca. A man fries eggs at the grill, preparing

breakfast for the players.

The players eat breakfast.     The mood is strangely quiet.

The signed players sit around in uniform, while the unsigned

"trial" players wear their black jerseys. Coach Reyes addresses

them in mid-speech.

Several players work out on bars attached to the side of the

building.

As Miguel lowers himself after a set of pull-ups, he notices a

shiny, black, luxury SUV drive into the academy parking lot.

Miguel watches as Alvarez gets out of the driver's seat, doing

business on his cell phone.

Miguel exercises his pitching arm by stretching an elastic tube

tied against a chain-link fence. As he stretches, he watches a

group of players line up for a sprint drill, sizing up his

future competition.

Salvador, wearing his black jersey, races for his life, beating

all the others.

The sweat-drenched players line up according to their positions,

waiting their turns to participate in a double-play drill, where

the pitchers cover first base.

Miguel awaits his turn, watching another pitcher, EDDY, run to

first to receive a throw from second base, but before Eddy can

catch the ball...

...he twists his ankle tripping over the bag.

The coaches rush over to Eddy, who is on the ground wincing in

pain. Miguel and the rest of the team watch in nervous

anticipation as Eddy struggles to his feet, limps off the field

with the aid of another player.

The ball is hit on the ground to first base, where the fielder

quickly throws it over to second. Miguel charges over to first,

stutter steps as he nears the base, and receives the throw just

in time to beat the hitter and step out of the way. He exhales

in relief.

The players shower after a gruelling day of workouts.

Miguel lounges with an elaborate ice-wrap around his shoulder

and upper arm as other players get dressed into street clothes.

Coach Reyes comes in, spots Pedro.

Pedro nods.   Miguel and Marcos exchange knowing glances.

The team eats dinner.    At Miguel's table, we catch the punchline

of a joke...

Everyone laughs hysterically, as...

...the young rookie, Salvador, grabs a seat next to Miguel at an

adjoining table.

Miguel smiles, but hesitates for a beat as Pedro walks past them

and over to an empty table in the corner of the room. Miguel

turns back to Salvador, pats him on the head.

Salvador smiles.

Salvador notices two pieces of cake on Miguel's tray.

Miguel notices Pedro across the room, staring at his food.

A dozen players sit around the television, watching a shlocky

American horror film on DVD.

Pedro packs his belongings into a KC Knights' duffel bag, when

Miguel, Marcos, and Alfonso approach his bunk.

Miguel unzips his windbreaker to reveal a bottle of Brugal rum

hidden underneath. The other guys smile mischievously.

Miguel, Marcos, Alfonso, and Pedro tip-toe across the gravel,

whispering at each other to shut up.

The four players toast their rum in little plastic cups.   The

bottle is nearly finished.

Awkward silence. The players look at Pedro with pity, unsure

how to respond. After a beat, Miguel mocks coach Reyes and the

others follow suit, mocking Alvarez and the other coaches.

The other players laugh, join Pedro in a loud whisper...

Pedro breaks off from the song, looks out over the field, on the

verge of crying. One by one, the other players take notice and

stop singing. Silence. Hold.

Hungover, Miguel vomits in the toilet.    Reyes opens the stall.

Reyes glances over to Marcos and Alfonso standing nearby. They

lower their heads in embarrassment like two kids busted by dad.

Reyes marches off.

Miguel on the mound. Takes a deep breath. He utilizes every

ounce of strength to deliver a pitch, and...

CRACK! The visiting Detroit Academy HITTER knocks the ball over

the left field wall for a homerun, wherein...

BLAH! Miguel throws up on the mound.   All the players gasp in

disgust, but Reyes just laughs.

Miguel looks over to Alvarez, sitting under an umbrella with a

clipboard, then to Reyes, hoping he'll yank him out of the game,

but Reyes just claps.

Miguel tries to shake off the cobwebs, steps on the rubber,

stares down the next hitter.

CLOSE on his hand revealing the knuckle curve grip. He tosses

in the next pitch, which arcs into Jose's glove for a...

Reyes' smile fades, stunned by the beautiful curve.

A SERIES OF JUMPCUTS take us through the next three batters, as

Miguel makes quick work of them, mixing up his nasty curve with

a blazing fastball.

After the third out, Miguel walks back to the dugout.     He takes

a seat on the bench, smiles smugly.

And he does.

Miguel, Alfonso, and Marcos run laps around the field as

punishment for the previous night's activities. They look as if

they could pass out at any moment.

Miguel and Marcos sit on a couch in a bare-walled waiting room

outside Alvarez's office. They sit quietly, like two kids

waiting for the principal.

Coach Reyes pokes his head out of Alvarez's office, motions them

inside.

Miguel and Marcos stare straight ahead, nervously.   Alvarez

stares at them, icy cold. After a beat...

Miguel and Marcos lower their heads.

They glance up, eyes wide.   Did he just say...

Everyone smiles (even Alvarez).

CAMERA follows behind the FLOOR MANAGER, as he passes rows of

WOMEN of all ages, working on sewing machines for an American

underwear company. He stops behind one woman, taps her on the

shoulder. The woman removes her earphones, turns around. It is

Miguel's mother, Carmen.

Carmen picks up the phone.

Hold on her reaction shifting from that of concern to elation.

She struggles to contain her joy.

Miguel opens a new bottle of rum, pours shots for everyone. The

whole family and all of Miguel's neighbors are jammed inside the

tiny house and spilling out into the street. Merengue blasts

from the new home stereo system.

FRIENDS and FAMILY pat Miguel on the back. He smiles, basking

in the glory of success. Erica kisses Miguel on the cheek.

Carmen interrupts, drapes her arms around Miguel, kissing him

repeatedly. As Erica looks on, we get the sense that she's used

to being on the outside of this kind of attention.

Frank hands Miguel a pen.

Miguel seems puzzled, but searches for something to write on.

Miguel gives Frank another hug.

Miguel dances salsa with Sofia, and then switches partners,

dances with Carmen.

As he dances close with his mother, he catches a glimpse of

Erica standing with some friends off to the side.

Miguel and Erica stand in silhouette, isolated from the party

raging outside. Miguel sands one of the legs of the dining

table.

Miguel's eyes get big for a second, until Erica smiles.    He's

been had. He smiles back. A beat.

She kisses Miguel on the cheek.

Through cracks in the tarp, Miguel watches Erica join the dance

party in the street.

Savoring this rare moment alone, he breathes deep, blows wood

dust off the table leg, and continues sanding. Hold.

Miguel looks out the window over the dry, Arizona desert.

A duffel bag emerges from the luggage shoot, and slides down to

the rotating conveyor belt, where an AMERICAN TOURIST grabs it

and exits frame. PAN OVER to Miguel, Marcos and several other

DOMINICAN PLAYERS (including ANTONIO and JULIO) excitedly

waiting for their bags. Miguel perks up upon seeing his,

quickly snatches it off the belt. The others smile and APPLAUD.

The other Dominican players goof off, while Miguel stares out

the windows at the rocky suburban Phoenix landscape. He catches

wide-eyed glimpses of wacky shaped cacti, strip malls, and, of

course, a drive-thru Starbucks.

ON THE RADIO, a conservative talk show host warns listeners

about the evils of Iran, suggests war as the only solution.

The players enter the southwest-style lobby, examining potted

cacti, and framed R.C. Gorman reprints on the walls.

Miguel and Marcos enter the room, drop their bags and explore

everything like big kids away from home for the first time.

Marcos turns on the TV, which has a clear reception.    He smiles.

IN THE BATHROOM Miguel examines the hair dryer on the wall,

turns it on and off.

KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK. Miguel opens the adjoining suite door to

find Antonio and Julio. They push past him, each holding a

beer.

Antonio opens their mini bar, tosses Miguel and Marcos beers.

They all toast...

Marcos randomly hits buttons on the remote control and

accidentally selects an adult pay-per-view movie. The opening

credits plunge right into a graphic sex-scene. Their heads

immediately jerk over to the TV, stunned.

They all smile and toast again.

KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK

Marcos opens the door to find JORGE RAMIREZ (25, an experienced

minor leaguer who left the KC Knights Dominican camp three years

ago) smiling before him.

They hug.   Jorge enters, notices the beers and porn.   He shakes

his head.

They all LAUGH.

Pitching coach, STU SUTTON (white, 40s), addresses the minor

league pitching staff in mid-speech.

While all the players respectfully listen to Stu, it is clear

that very few of the Latino players can understand him.

Miguel stretches his arm, while observing another group of

PITCHERS throwing in the bullpen. He stares at them with

intensity, sizing up his new competition.

Miguel faces off against a HITTER in a simulated game scenario.

One, two, three, he strikes him out on three straight pitches.

Stu and another COACH exchange impressed looks.

Marcos tries to sleep, while Miguel channel surfs through the

late night infomercials and reality TV dating shows.

After a few beats of this...

And he does.

Miguel runs laps along the outfield wall in the empty stadium.

The Kansas City B-squad is facing off against the Los Angeles B-

squad, which is rallying in the top of the 9th.

Miguel warms up, glancing over to the action on the field

between pitches. He sees...

...Los Angeles gets another hit, scoring another run, so...

...Stu Sutton walks out to the mound, signals for Miguel.

Miguel throws one more warm-up toss and sprints onto the field.

Miguel arrives, ready for action.   Stu hands him the ball, while

the catcher, Orlando, translates.

Miguel nods. As he tosses a few more warm-up pitches from the

mound, Stu goes back to the DUGOUT where Marcos and Julio

anxiously await Miguel's spring training game debut.

The BATTER steps in and Miguel steps on the rubber, touches his

father's cross around his neck, tucks it in his jersey. He

looks to Orlando, and nods at his request for a fastball. He

throws it in...

Stu exchanges impressed glances with another COACH.

Miguel sends in the next one, and...

...the HITTER checks his swing, but goes too far.

IN THE DUGOUT Marcos gets to his feet, clapping for

encouragement.

Miguel nods to Orlando, delivers again...

CRACK! The ball is smoked toward Brad Johnson at second base.

He leaps out, body fully extended, and makes a fantastic catch.

But he's not done yet...

The runner at second is too far off the bag, so Brad hops to his

feet, and fires a laser beam to second, finishing off one of the

sweetest double-plays you'll ever see.

Miguel pumps his fist into the air, and the team runs to...

Marcos and Julio are the first to greet Miguel with high-fives.

Orlando, Ed, and Jorge, coming off the field, follow in suit.

Miguel awaits Brad's return to the dugout and high-fives him

too, but they soon return to their segregated places on opposite

ends of the bench.

Most of the players are gone or heading out when Miguel

approaches his catcher, Orlando, a few lockers away.

Miguel agrees, as an ASSISTANT COACH finishes handing out checks

to the remaining players.

Miguel sits on the bench near his locker, opens his envelope to

find...

INSERT:   a check for $502.18.

He SMILES.

The ENGLISH INSTRUCTOR goes over baseball related vocabulary off-

screen, while Miguel glances through his "English for Baseball

Players" notebook.

He finds a page with pictures of different foods along with

their English names. He looks at all the foods, stops at an

image of a fried egg. He circles the word "egg."

The instructor finishes up class, and the exhausted Latino

players get up to leave. Marcos stands, leans over to Miguel.

Miguel does bicep curls alone in the weight room, when...

...Brad Johnson enters. They exchange hello gestures, and

proceed to workout on opposite sides of the room. After

finishing his set, Miguel turns to Brad.

They continue with their respective routines.

CLOSE ON Miguel's hands counting out seven fifty-dollar bills.

He approaches the CLERK behind thick, bullet-proof glass, and

slides the money and routing slip through a retractable tray.

Miguel gets to work on his food, feeling good.

Miguel leans against the wall, eyes closed.    He whispers a

prayer to himself, then heads inside the...

...where he passes a dejected-looking Antonio, on his way out.

Antonio avoids eye contact, and Miguel understands what's

happened.

He sees Marcos, Julio, and a few other players lingering near

the bulletin board. He approaches, cautiously.

Miguel nervously glances over to the list.

Miguel goes to the board scans the names on a roster, finds his.

INSERT:   We PAN from his name to "(A) Bridgetown, Iowa"

Various images of vast Midwest farmlands... corn country.

Miguel looks out the window at the passing landscape.

Bridgetown's number one baseball fans, EARL HIGGINS (70) and his

wife HELEN HIGGINS (also 70) watch as the bus pulls into the

depot. They're holding a sign that says: "Miguel Santos #1"

About a dozen young players hop off the bus and grab their bags.

Some of them jump into waiting taxis, but Miguel sees his name

on the Higgins' sign.

Jorge walks over towards the Higgins with Miguel.

Jorge hugs Helen, shakes hands with Earl.

Orlando whistles to Jorge from a taxi.

Jorge waves goodbye to the Higgins, pats Miguel on the back, and

hops in a cab with Orlando and Ed.

Awkward beat, as Miguel, Earl, and Helen stand in silence.

Earl and Helen ramble on in English, while Miguel spaces out the

back window at the passing corn stalks, which are strikingly

similar to the sugar cane stalks back home.

She laughs.   Miguel smiles, appreciating the effort.

Miguel smiles, understanding.

Earl and Helen break down the rules for Miguel at the table.

Miguel smiles.

Erica strolls by, yells into phone...

Miguel laughs on his end.

The Higgins' son, MICHAEL (40s), and his wife, HILARY (40s), and

their daughter, ANNE (17), join Earl and Helen for Miguel's

first dinner in Iowa.

Helen leads the table in grace...

Anne smiles at Miguel, a little embarrassed by her grandpa.

Miguel smiles back, then gets back to his meatloaf.

The team's CLUBHOUSE MANAGER (19, redheaded freckle face), hands

out schedules to a handful of returning players.

Miguel enters the room, looking for his locker.    The Clubby

takes notice.

Clubby points Miguel in the right direction, where he finds his

locker and several pressed jerseys waiting for him. Miguel

takes his practice jersey, sits down in front of the locker,

as...

Brad pats Miguel on the back.    Miguel is excited to see a

familiar face.

Brad finds his locker, and they both suit up.

We follow Miguel through the tunnel, which leads out to the...

A stunning little park that sits at the Mississippi River's

edge, underneath the Crescent Bridge. A dozen scattered players

warm up on the lush green grass.

A wide-eyed Miguel steps onto the field for the first time and

takes it all in. Hold.

Miguel and Jorge stroll through the mall. Miguel notes the

steady barrage of discount signs, plastic jewelry kiosks, and

product samples.

Miguel follows Jorge through the men's section when a rack of

Hanes underwear catches his eye. He turns a package over.

INSERT: in a little corner of the package Miguel reads, "MADE IN

THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC".

He checks the price tag.

Miguel emerges from the dressing room in a white suit and

electric blue collared shirt.

Miguel and Jorge each carry a shopping bag for Helen. Miguel

also carries a plastic bag of his own. All three of them are

licking ice cream cones.

Miguel takes a new calendar out of a plastic shopping bag.    It

features iconic images of New York City. He peels off the

plastic and pins it to the month of April on his wall.

CLOSE ON Miguel's hands tearing open a small package from his

family back home: we linger on a crudely drawn sketch of a

baseball player with a Kansas City jersey from Luis, along with

a photo of Carmen, Erica, and Luis posing in front of the frame

of the new house.

Miguel smiles, reads the enclosed letter.

Opening Night. There's an air of excitement in the stands and

on the field. The small park's seats are packed with fans.

JACK JEFFERIES (White, 50s) overlooks the field, speaks into the

microphone.

