SUNSET BOULEVARD, stencilled on a curbstope.

In the gutter lie dead leaves, scraps of paper,

burnt matches and cigarette butts.  It is early

morning.

Now the CAMERA leaves the sign and MOVES EAST, the

grey asphalt of the street filling the screen.  As

speed accelerates to around 40 m.p.h., traffic de-

marcations, white arrows, speed-limit warnings, man-

hole covers, etc., flash by.  SUPERIMPOSED on all

this are the CREDIT TITLES, in the stencilled style

of the street sign.

Over the scene we now hear         MAN'S VOICE

sirens.  Police squad cars    Yes, this is Sunset

hurtle toward the camera,     Boulevard, Los Angeles,

turn off the road into a      California.  It's about

driveway with squealing       five o'clock in the

brakes.  Dismounted motor-    morning.  That's the

cycle cops stand directing    Homicide Squad, com-

the cars in.                  plete with detectives

MANSION                       ported from one of those

The policemen and news-       ten thousand block.

paper reporters and           You'll read all about

photographers have            it in the late editions,

jumped out of the cars        I'm sure.  You'll get

and are running up to         it over your radio,

the pool, in which a          and see it on tele-

body is seen floating.        vision -- because an

Photographers' bulbs          old-time star is in-

flash in rapid suc-           volved.  one of the big-

cession.                      gest.  But before you

Angle up through the       If so, you've come to the

water from the bottom      right party...  You see,

of the pool, as the        the body of a young man

body floats face down-     was found floating in the

ward.  It is a well-       pool of her mansion, with

dressed young man.         two shots in his back and

SLOW DISSOLVE TO:          only the price turned out

THE HILLTOP AT IVAR        when it all started.

& FRANKLIN STREETS

It is a crisp sunny        I was living in an

day.  The voice con-       apartment house above

tinues speaking as         Franklin and Ivar.

CAMERA PANS toward         Things were tough

the ALTO NIDO APART-       at the moment.  I hadn't

MENT HOUSE, an ugly        worked in a studio for

Moorish structure ofsat    a long time.  So I

stucco, about four         there grinding

stories high.  CAMERA      out original stories,

MOVES TOWARD AN OPEN       two a week.  Only I

WINDOW on the third        seemed to have lost

floor, where we look       my touch.  Maybe they

in on JOE GILLIS' APART-   weren't original

MENT.  Joe Gillis, bare-   enough.  Maybe they

footed and wearing no-     were too original.

thing but an old bath-     All I know is they

robe.  is sitting on       didn't sell.

the bed.  In front of

him.  on a straight

chair, is a portable

typewriter.  Beside

him, on the bed, is a

dirty ashtray and a

scattering of type

written and pencil-

marked pages.  Gillis

is typing.  with a

pencil clenched bet-

ween his teeth.

It is a one-room affair with an unmade Murphy bed

pulled out of the wall at which Gillis sits typing.

There are a couple of worn-out plush chairs and a

Spanish-style, wrought-iron standing lamp.  Also a

small desk littered with books and letters, and a

chest of drawers with a portable phonograph and some

records on top.  On the walls are a couple of repro-

ductions of characterless paintings, with laundry

bills and snapshots stuck in the frames.  Through an

archway can he seen a tiny kitchenette, complete with

unwashed coffee pot and cup, empty tin cans, orange

peels, etc.  The effect is dingy and cheerless --

just another furnished apartment.  The buzzer SOUNDS.

The buzzer SOUNDS again.  Gillis gets up and opens

the door.  Two men wearing hats stand outside one of

them carrying a briefcase.

The men ease into the room.  No. 1 hands Gillis a

business card.

The men leave.  Gillis                 GILLIS' VOICE

stands pondering beside    Well, I needed about two

the door for a moment.     hundred and ninety dollars

Then he walks to the       and I needed it real

center of the room and,    quick, or I'd lose my car.

with his back to the       It wasn't in Palm Springs

CAMERA, slips into a       and it wasn't in the

pair of gray slacks.       garage.  I was way ahead

There is a metallic        of the finance company.

noise as some loose

change and keys drop

from the trouser pockets.

As Gillis bends over to

pick them up, we see that

he has dropped the car

keys, identifiable be-

cause of a rabbit's

foot and a miniature

license plate attached

to the key-ring.  Gillis

pockets the keys and as

he starts to put on a

shirt

DISSOLVE TO:

SHOESHINE PARLOR (DAY)

A small shack-like build-     around and I wasn't tak-

ing, it stands in the         ing any chances, so I

corner of a public park-      kept it a couple of

ing lot.  Rudy, a             blocks away in a parking

colored boy, is giving        lot behind Rudy's Shoe-

a customer a shine.           shine Parlor.  Rudy

PAN BEHIND the shack to GILLIS' CAR, a yellow 1946

Plymouth convertible with the top down.  Gillis enters

the SHOT.  He is wearing a tweed sport jacket, a tan

polo shirt, and moooasins.  He steps into the car and

drives it off.  Rudy winks after him.

MEN'S SHOP ON BRONSON AVE.            GILLIS' VOICE

Gillis drives into the        kicking around Paranount.

alley and parks his car       My agent told me it was

right behind a delivery       dead as a doornail.  but

truck.  PAN AND FOLLOW        I knew a big shot over

HIM as he gets out, walks     there who'd always liked

around the corner into        me, and the time had

Bronson and then toward       come to take a little

the towering main gate of     advantage of it.  His

Paramount.  A few loafers,    name was Sheldrake.  He

studio cops and extras are    was a smart producer,

lounging there.               with a set of ulcers to

DISSOLVE TO:

It is in the style of a Paramount executive's office --

mahogany, leather, and a little chintz.  On the

walls are some large framed photographs of Paramount

stars, with dedications to Mr. Sheldrake.  Also a

couple of framed critics' awards certificates, and an

Oscar on a bookshelf.  A shooting schedule chart is

thumb-tacked into a large bulletin board.  There are

piles or scripts, a few pipes and, somewhere in the

background, some set models.

Start on Sheldrake.  He is about 45.  Behind his wor-

ried face there hides a coated tongue.  He is en-

gaged in changing the stained rilter cigarette in

his Zeus holder.

A secretary enters, carrying a glass or milk.

She opens a drawer and takes out a bottle of pills for

Sheldrake.

The secretary exits.  Sheldrake takes a pill and

washes it down with some milk.

The door opens and Betty Schaefer enters -- a clean-

cut, nice looking girl of 21, with a bright, alert

manner.  Dressed in tweed skirt, Brooks sweater and

pearls, and carrying a folder of papers.  She puts

them on Sheldrake's desk, not noticing Gillis, who

stands near the door.

Betty turns towards Gillis, embarrassed.

Betty leaves.

DISSOLVE TO:

(EARLY AFTERNOON ACTIVITY)         GILLIS' VOICE

MOVE IN toward drug store   to headquarters.  That's

and                         the way a lot of us think

DISSOLVE TO:                Actors and stock girls and

The usual Schwabadero       gravy train.

crowd sits at the fount-

ain, gossips at the

cigar-stand, loiters by

the magazine display.

MOVE IN towards the TWO

TELEPHONE BOOTHS.  In       I got myself ten nickels

one of them sits Gillis,    and started sending out

a stack of nickels in       a general S.O.S.  Couldn't

front of him.  He's         get hold of my agent,

doing a lot of talking      naturally.  So then I

into the telephone,         called a pal of mine,name

hanging up, dropping        of Artie Green -- an awful

another nickel, dialing,    nice guy, an assistant

talking again.              director.  He cquld let me

Gillis hangs up with a curse, opens the door of the

booth, emerges, wiping the sweat from his forehead.

He walks toward the exit.  He is stopped by the

voice of

Gillis looks around.  At the fountain sits Skolsky,

drinking a cup of coffee.

Gillis walks out.

DISSOLVE TO:

On a sun-dappled green edged with tall sycamores,

stands Morino, the agent, a caddy and a nondescript

opponent in the background.  Gillis has evidently

stated his problem already.

He sinks his putt and walks toward the next tee,

Gillis following him.

He bends down to tee up his ball.  Gillis turns away.

DISSOLVE TO:

driving down Sunset      As I drove back towards town

towards Hollywood.  He   I took inventory of my pros-

drives slowly.  His      pects.  They now added up to

mind is working.          exactly zero.  Apparently I

Gillis stops his car at  right you wise guys.  why don't

a red light by the main  you go out and take a crack at

entrance to Bel Air.     Hollywood?  Maybe you think

Suddenly his eyes fall   you could -- Oh-oh!

on:

It is a dark-green Dodge business coupe, also waiting

for the light to change.  but headed in the opposite

direction.  In it are the two finance company men.

They spot Gillis in his car and exchange looks.  From

across the intersection Gillis recognizes them and

pulls down the leather sunshade to screen his face.

As the light changes.  Gillis gives his car the gun

and shoots away.  The men narrowly avoid hitting

another car as they make a U-turn into oncoming

traffic and start after him.

locations on Sunset between Bel Air and Holmby Hills).

The men lose Gillis around a bend, catch sight of him

and then -- while they are trapped behind a slow-

moving truck.  he disappears again.

He is driving as fast as he dares, keeping an eye out

for pursuit in his rear-view mirror.  Suddenly his

right front tire blows out.  Gillis clutches desperately

at the steering wheel and manages to turn the careening

car into

It is overgrown with weeds and screened from the street

by bushes and trees.  Gillis stops his car about thirty

feet from the street and looks back.

shoots past the driveway, still looking for Gillis.

He watches his pursuers               GILLIS' VOICE

shoot past and out of      Yeah...

sight.  He opens the

door and looks down at     I had landed myself in the

the flat tire.  Then he    driveway of some big mansion

looks around to see        that looked run-down and

where he is.               deserted.  At the end of the

An enormous, five-car      going to waste.  If ever there

affair.  neglected and     was a place to stash away a

empty-looking.             limping car with a hot license

He gets back into his      There was another occupant in

car and carefully pilots   that garage: an enormous

the limping vehicle into   foreign-built automobile.  It

one of the stalls.  In     must have burned up ten gallons

the adjoining one is a     to a mile.  It had a 1932

large, dust-covered        license.  I figured that's

Isotta-Fraschini propped   when the owners moved out...

up on blocks.  He closes   I also figured I couldn't go

the garage door and walks  back to my apartment now that

up the driveway.  In idle  those bloodhounds were on to

curiosity he mounts a      me.  The idea was to get Artie

stone staircase which      Green's and stay there till I

leads to the garden.       could make that bus for Ohio.

CAMERA IN BACK OF HIM.     Once back in Dayton I'd drop

At the top of the steps    the credit boys a picturepost-

he sees the somber pile    card telling them where to

of                         pick up the jallopy.

NORMA DESMOND'S HOUSE             GILLIS' VOICE

It is a grandiose --   It was a great big white

Italianate structure,  elephant of a place.  The kind

mottled by the years,  crazy movie people built in the

gloomy, forsaken,      crazy Twenties.  A neglected

little formal garden   house gets an unhappy look.

completely gone to     This one had it in spades.  It

seed.                  was like that old woman in

From somewhere above   Haversham in her rotting wed-

comes                  ding dress and her torn veil,

Gillls turns and looks.

Behind a bamboo blind there is a movement of

a dark figure.

He stands flabbergasted.  A new noise attracts his

attention -- the creak of a heavy metal-and-glass

door being opened.  He turns and sees

Max von Mayerling stands there.  He is sixty, and

all in black, except for immaculate white cotton

gloves, shirt, high, stiff collar and a white bow

tie.  His coat is shiny black alpaca, his trousers

ledger-atriped.  He is semi-paralyzed.  The left

side of his mouth is pulled down, and he leans on a

rubber-ferruled stick.

Gillis enters the shot.

There is authority in the gesture of his white-

gloved hand as he motions Gillis inside.

Automatically, Gillis wipes his feet on an enormous

shabby cocoanut mat.

Gillis enters.

It is grandiose and grim.  The whole place is one of

those abortions of silent-picture days, with bowling

alleys in the cellar and a built-in pipe organ, and

beams imported from Italy, with California termites

at work on them.  Portieres are drawn before all the

windows, and only thin slits or sunlight find their

way in to fight the few electric bulbs which are always

burning.

Gillis starts up the curve of the black marble

staircase.  It has a wrought-iron rail and a worn

velvet rope along the wall.

The oddity of the situation has caught Gillis'

imagination.  He climbs the stairs with a kind of

morbid fascination.  At the top he stops, undecided,

then turns to the right and is stopped by

Gillis swings around.

Norma Desmond stands down the corridor next to a

doorway from which emerges a flickering light.  She

is a little woman.  There is a curious style, a

great sense of high voltage about her.  She is dress-

ed in black house pyjamas and black high-heeled

pumps.  Around her throat there is a leopard-pat-

terned scarf, and wound around her head a turban of

the same material.  Her skin is very pale, and she

is wearing dark glasses.

Gillis enters the SHOT and she leads him into

It is a huge, gloomy room hung in white brocade which

has beconle dirty over the years and even slightly

torn in a few places.  There's a great, unmade gilded

bed in the shape of a swan, from which the gold had

begun to peel.  There is a disorder of clothes and

negligees and faded photographs of old-time stars

about.

In an imitation baroque fireplace some logs are burn-

ing.  On the massage table before it lies a small

form shrouded under a Spanish shawl.  At each end on

a baroque pedestal stands a three-branched cande-

labrum, the candles lighted.

She picks up the shawl to make up her mind about the

color.  From under the shawl flops down a dead arm.

Gillis stares and recoils a little.  It is like a

child's arm, only black and hairy.

Gillis edges closer and glances down.  Under the

shawl he sees the sad, bearded face of a dead

chimpanzee.  Norma drops back the shawl.

For the first time.  Norma really looks at him

through her dark glasses.

Gillis starts down the stairs.

He is halfway down the staircase when he is

stopped by

Norma starts down the stairs.

Norma has reached him at the bottom of the staircase.

She leads him into

It is dark and damp and filled with black oak and

red velvet furniture which looks like crappy props

from the Mark of Zorro set.  Along the main wall,

a gigantic fireplace has been freezing for years.

On the gold piano is a galaxy of photographs of

Norma Desmond in her various roles.  On one wall

is a painting -- a California Gold Rush scene,

Carthay Circle school.  (We will learn later that

it hides a motion picture screen.)

One corner is filled with a large pipe organ, and

as Norma and Gillis enter, there is a grizzly

moaning sound.  Gillis looks around.

Norma has led him to the card tables which stand

side by side near a window.  They are piled high

with papers scrawled in a large, uncertain hand.

Max has entered.

He leaves.  Norma turns to Gillis again.

There is compulsion in her voice.

Gillis looks at her                   GILLIS' VOICE

and starts slowly          Well.  I had no pressing

reading.                   engagement, and she'd men-

Max comes in, wheeling     Sometimes it's interesting

a wicker tea wagon on      to see just how bad bad

which are two bottles o    writing can be.  This prom-

f champagne and two        ised to go the limit.  I

red Venetian glasses,      wondered what a handwriting

a box of zwieback and      expert would make of that

a jar of caviar.  Norma    childish scrawl of hers.

sits on her feet.  deep    Max wheeled in some champagne

in a chair, a gold ring    and some caviar.  Later, I

on her forefinger with     found out that Max was the

a clip which holds a       only other person in that

cigarette.  She gets up    grim Sunset castle, and I

and forces on Gillis       found out a few other things

another batch of script,   about him... As for her, she

goes back to her chair.    sat coiled up like a watch

CEILING                It sure was a cozy set-up.

PAN DOWN to the moan-  Max, and a dead monkey upstair

ing organ.  PAN OVER   and the wind wheezing through

TO THE ENTRANCE DOOR.  that organ once in a while.

Max opens it, and a    Later on, just for comedy

solemn-faced man in    relief, the real guy arrived

undertaker's clothes   with a baby coffin.  It was

brings in a small      all done with great dignity.

white coffin.  (Thru   He must have been a very

these shots the room   important chimp.  The great

has been growing       grandson of King Kong, maybe.

duskier.)

DISSOLVE TO:

reading.  The lamp     stomach, what with that sweet

beside him is now      champagne and that tripe I'd

really paying its      been reading -- that silly

way in the dark room.  hodgepodge of melodramatic

A lot of the manu-     plots.  However, by then I'd

script pages are       started concocting a little

piled on the floor     plot of my own...

around his feet.  A

half-empty champagne

glass stands on the

arm of his chair.

THE CAMERA SLOWLY DRAWS BACK to include Norma

Desmond sitting in the dusk, just as she was before.

Gillis puts down a batch of script.  There is a

little pause.

Norma takes off her glasses.

THE CAMERA MOVES                  GILLIS' VOICE

TOWARD NORMA'S FACE,   She sure could say a lot of

right up to her        things with those pale eyes of

eyes.                  hers.  They'd been her trade

DISSOLVE TO:

ING TO ROOM OVER GARAGE  I felt kind of pleased with

Max, an electric light   uation.  I'd dropped the hook,

bulb in his hand, is     and she'd snapped at it.  Now

leading Gillis up.       my car would be safe down

Gillis carries a batch   below, while I did a patch-

of the manuscript.       up job on the script.  And

Max pushes open a door at the top of the stairs.

Max doesn't answer.  He walks across to the bed,

screws a bulb in the open socket above it.  The

light goes on, revealing:

There are dirty windows on two sides, and dingy wall-

paper on the cracked plaster walls.  For furniture

there is a neatly made bed, a table and a few chairs

which might have been discarded from the main house.

Max gives him an enigmatic look.

He goes out.  Gillis     I pegged him as slightly

looks after him, hangs   cuckoo, too.  A stroke maybe.

his coat over a chair,   Come to think of it, the

walks over to the win-   whole place seemed to have

dow, pulls down the      been stricken with a kind of

rickety Venetian blind.  creeping paralysis, out of

As he does so, he looks  beat with the rest of the

down at:                 world, crumbling apart in

THE DESMOND HOUSE        There was a tennis court, or

(MOONLIGHT)              rather the ghost of a tennis

The cement surface is    and sagging net ...

cracked in many places,

and weeds are growing

high.

He looks away from the court to:

POOL

There is no water in     And of course she had a pool.

it, and hunks of         Who didn't then?  Mabel Norm-

mosaic which lines its   and and John Gilbert must

enormous basin are       have swum in it ten thousand

broken away.             midnights ago, and Vilma Banky

He stares down, his stomach slowly turning.

At the bottom of the basin a great rat is eating a

decaying or,ange.  From the inlet pipe crawl two

other rats, who join battle with the first rat over

the orange.

He starts away, but some-           GILLIS' VOICE

thing attracts his atten-      There was something

tion.  He turns back and       else going on below:

looks down again.              the last rites for

Norma Desmond and Max are      to rest an only child.

carrying the white coffin      Was her life really

towards a small grave as       as empty as that?

which has been dug in the

dead turf.  Norma carries

one of the candelabra, all

of its candles flickering

in the wind.  They reach

the grave and lower the

coffin into it.  Then,

Norma lighting his task

with the candelabrum, Max

takes a spade from the

loose earth and starts

filling in the grave.

He watches the scene be-            GILLIS' VOICE

low, then turns into the       It was all very queer,

room, goes to the door         but queerer things

to lock it.  There is no       were yet to come.

key, and only a hole

where the lock has been

gouged out.  Gillis moves

a heavy overstuffed chair

in front of the door, then

walks towards the bed,

throws himself on it,

picking up some of the

manuscript pages to read.

DISSOLVE

HOUSE - (MORNING)

The day is overcast.  The     SOUND: (Distant organ

house is shrouded in low      music - improvisations

fog.                          on an odd, mournful

over with fog.

Its dark outline even more

melancholy under the misty

blanket.

Muted daylight seeps               GILLIS' VOICE

through the blinds.  Gillis   That night I'd had a

lies on the bed, under a      mixed-up dream.  In it

shabby quilt.  The manu-      was an organ grinder.

script is beside him, some    I couldn't see his

of the pages scattered on     face, but the organ

the floor.  He is just        was all draped in

opening his eyes. It takes    black, and a chimp was

him a moment to adjust him-   dancing for pennies.

self to the strange sur-      When I opened my eyes,

roundings.  His eyes, wander- the music was still

ing about the room. suddenly  there... Where was

stop, startled. He lifts      I?

himself on one elbow and

stares at -

The heavy chair he had set    Oh yes, in that empty

against it the night before   room over her garage.

has been pushed back.  The    Only it wasn't empty

door is wide ajar.            any more.  Somebody

He jumps out of bed.  He

wears, shirt, trousers

and socks.  Suddenly he

realizes that all his

possessions have                  GILLIS' VOICE

been brought in. In        What was going on?

the closet hang his

shirts.  His books and

typewriter are neatly

arranged on the table.

His phonograph-radio

combination is all

installed.  Gillis looks

around startled, then

sits down and starts

putting on his moccasins

hastily.

DISSOLVE TO:

PULL BACK: They belong to Max von Mayerling.  He

is sitting erect, his bull neck taut as a wrestler's

as he rights out somber chord after somber chord.

He sits in a shaft of gray light coming from an open

French window.

Through the far archway, Gillis storms into the big

room.

No answer.

Norma Desmond's shadow moves into the shaft of

light.

Gillis looks around.

On the couch by the fireplace reclines Norma Desmond,

dressed in a negligee.  She rises.

DISSOLVE TO:

HOUSE - (DAY)                       GILLIS' VOICE

Gillis sits at an impro-     So I let him unpack my

vised table, his typewriter  things. I wanted the

in front of him, working     dough, and I wanted to

hard at the manuscript.      get out of there as

Pencils, shears and a        quickly as possible.

paste-pot at hand.           I thought if I really

Facing him at some dis-      it off in a couple or

tance sits Norma,dressed     weeks.  But it wasn't

in another version of her    so simple, getting some

favorite lounging pajamas,   coherence into that wild,

the cigaette contraption     scrambled melodrama

on her finger.  She is       she'd concocted.  What

autographing large photo-    made it tougher was that

graphs of herself and put-   she was around all the

ting them in envelopes.      time -- hovering over

Gillis takes two or three pages from Norma's hand-

written script, crosses them out and puts them to

one side.

Norma rises, crosses towards Gillis, looks over his

shoulder.

He pulls the page from his typewriter. As he does

so he glances over towards Norma.

On the table in front        I didn't argue with her.

of her are the photo-        You don't yell at a

graphs which she is sign-    sleepwalker-- he may fall

ing. On the long table       and break his neck.That's

in the living room is a      it -- she was still

gallery of photographs       sleepwalking along the

in various frames -- all     giddy heights of a lost

Norma Desmond. On the        career --plain crazy

piano more photographs.      when it came to that one

Above the piano an oil       subject: her celluloid

portrait of her.  On the     self, the great Norma

highboy beside him still     Desmond.  How could She

more photographs.            breathe in that house,

DISSOLVE TO:                 Desmonds? More Norma

Shooting towards the big     It wasn't all work - of

Gold Rush painting. Max,     course.  Two or three

white gloves and all,        times a week Max would

steps into the shot, shoves  haul up that enormous oil

the painting up towards      painting that had been

the ceiling,revealing a      presented to her by some

motion picture screen.       Nevada Chamber of Com-

Max exits.                   merce, and we'd see a

They sit on a couch,facing    "So much nicer than going

the screen. On a table in     out," she'd say.  The

front of them are champagne,  plain fact was that she

cigarettes and coffee.        was afraid of that world

Above their heads are the     outside.  Afraid it

typical openings for a pro-   would remind her that

jector. The lights go off.    time had passed.

From the opening above

their heads shoots the wide

beam of light.

BOOTH BEHIND THE ROOM         and Max would run the

The light of the machine      was just as well -- it

flickering over his face,     kept him from giving us

which is frozen, a somber     an accompaniment on

enigma.                       that wheezing organ.

watching the screen.          me, and she'd smell of

Gillis looks down and sees    tuberoses, which is not

that Norma's hand is clasp-   my favorite perfume, not

ing his ann tight. He         by a long shot. Sometines

doesn't like it much but      as we watched, she'd c

he can't do anything about    lutch my arm or my hand

it. However. when she for     forgetting she was my

a second lets go his arm      employer becoming just a

to pick up a glass of         fan, excited about that

champagne, he gently with-    actress up there on the

draws his arm, leans away     screen....I guess I don't

from her and crosses his      have to tell you who the

arms to discourage any        star was.  They were

resumption of her approach.   always her pictures --

Norma puts the glass down     that's all she wanted

doesn't find his arn, but     to see.

is not aware of any signifi-

cance in his maneuver. They

both watch the screen.

On it flickers a famous scene from one of Norma's old

silent pictures.  It is not to be a funny scene.  It

is old-fashioned, but shows her incredible beauty

and the screen presence which made her the great star

of her day.

In a sudden flareup she jumps to her feet and stands

in the flickering beam of light.

DISSOLVE TO:

It is apparently empty.            GILLIS' VOICE

The elaborate lamps         Sometimes there'd be a

make pools of light.        little bridge game in the

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK       a cent a point.  I'd get

AND PANS to reveal a        half her winnings.  Once

card table around           they ran up to seventy

which sit Norma and         cents, which was about

three friends - three       the only cash money I

actors of her period.       ever got.  The others

They sit erect and play     around the table would

with grim seriousness.      be actor friends - dim

Beside Norma sits           remember from the silent

Gillis, kibitzing on a      days.  I used to think of

game which bores him        them as her Wax Works.

extremely.  An ashtray

on the card table is

full and Norma holds

it out for Gillis to

take away.  He crosses

the room to the fire-

place. but his eyes

fall on the entrance

door and he stops.

Max stands in the open door.  Outside are the two

men who came to the apartment for Gillis' car.

He steps back so that he cannot be seen from the

door.  A second later Max appears, looking for him.

Gillis doesn't know what to do.  From offstage

comes:

Gillis dumps the cigarette butts into the cold fire-

place, crosses to the bridge table, puts the

ashtray down, leans over and speaks into Norma's ear.

Gillis stands frustrated, hideously embarrassed

by the stares of the waxworks. He turns away

and hurries to the door.

It is half open. Gillis comes into the shot

and, taking cover, looks out.

The men from the finance company are cranking up

the car.  Max stands watching silently.  When they

finish the cranking job, the men climb into the

front seat of the truck.

Over the shot the SOUND of the truck being started

and the cars moving away.  Gillis moves out into

the courtyard and stands staring after the car.

From the house comes Norma.

THE CAMERA HAS PANNED over to the garage and FOCUSES

on the dirty Isotta-Fraschini on its blocks.

DISSOLVE TO:

DRIVING IN THE HILLS

ABOVE SUNSET (DAY)

Max is at the wheel,               GILLIS' VOICE

dressed as usual except     So Max got that old bus

for a chauffeurfs cap.      down off its blocks and

Gillis sits beside Norma,   The whole thing was up-

who is wearing a smart      holstered in leopard

tailleur and her eternal    skin, and had one of

sun glasses. Gillis         those car phones, all

wears his sport jacket-     gold-plated.

flannel trousers-moccasin

combinatIon.

He sits uncomfortably. Norma is studying him.

By this time Max has made a U-turn.

QUICK DISSOLVE TO:

Gillis stands in front of a full-length triple mirror,

surrounded by a couple of salesmen and the tailor, who

is busily working out alterations.

Gillis wears a double-breasted gray flannel coat with

chalk stripes.  His trousers belong to another suit

of glen plaid.  Norma is running the show.

The salesman leaves.

He leads her off.  The other salesman arrives with a

selection of topcoats.

DISSOLVE:

DISSOLVE IN:

A day in December.  Rain.

QUICK DISSOLVE TO:

Water is drizzling from            GILLIS' VOICE

two or three spots in the   The last week in December

ceiling into pans and       the rains came -- a great

bowls set to catch it,      big package of rain.

one bowl right on the       Over-sized, like every-

bed.  The room is almost    thing else in California.

emptied of Gillis' be-

longings by now.  Max       It came right through

is carrying out a hand-     the old roof of my room

full of new suits on        above the garage.  She

hangers.  He has a          had Max move me to the

dressing gown over his      main house.  I didn't

shoulder.  Gillis holds     much like the idea -- the

a stack of shirts, his      only time I could have

typewriter, and some        to myself was in that

manuscript.  He surveys     room -- but it was better

the room for the last       than sleeping in a rain-

time, to see whether        coat and galoshes.

he's forgotten any-

thing.  He has.  He

puts down the typewriter

and picks up from under

the bed a pair of very

smart red leather bedroom

slippers.  He tucks them

under his arm, picks up

the typewriter and leaves.

QUICK DISSOLVE TO:

It is obviously a man's room -- heavy Spanish

furniture -- one wall nothing but a closet with

shelves and drawers for shirts and shoes.  Max is

hanging up the suits.  Gillis throws the shirts on

a big chair, tosses the slippers at the foot of the

bed, places the typewriter and manuscript on a desk

at the window.

Slightly embarrassed, Gillis picks up his toilet

kit with razor, toothbrushes, soap, etc., and starts

towards the bathroom, pausing en route at a rain-

splattered window.

He points to the entrance door of the room, and to

another door.

Max leaves.  Gillis comes out of the bathroom, picks

up his shirts, goes over to a closet, opens it.  As

he does so one of the doors without a lock swings

slightly open.  Gillis looks through the half-open

door and sees.

It is empty.  The rainy            GILLIS' VOICE

day does nothing to        There it was again - that

help its gloom.            room of hers, all satin and

He pushes the door shut

and walks back into the

room.

DISSOLVE TO:

HOUSE (NIGHT)

Gillis is coming down the         GILLIS' VOICE

stairs in his tailcoat        It was at her New Year's

adjusting the handkerchief    party that I found out

in his pocket.  He obviously  how she felt about me.

feels a little uneasy in      Maybe I'd been an idiot

this outfit.  From below      not to have sensed it

comes a tango of the Twen-    was coming - that sad,

ties.  played by a small      embarrassing revelation.

orchestra.  Gillis stops

in the archway leading to

the big room and looks

around.

rated for the occasion with

laurel garlands.  Dozens of

candles in all the sconces

and candelabra are ablaze.

Their flickering flames are

reflected in the waxed sur=

face of the tile floor.

There is a buffet, with

buckets of champagne and

caviar on ice.  In one corner

on a little platform banked

with palms.  a four-piece

orchestra is playing.

At the buffet are Max and Norma.  She is drinking

a glass of champagne.  She is wearing a diamonte

evening dress.  very high style.  with long black

gloves and a headdress of paradise feathers.  Her

eyes fall on Gillis.  She puts down the glass of

champagne.  picks up a gardenia boutonniere and

moves toward him.

Gillis makes a slow 36O-degree turn.

She indicates the V from his shoulders to his hips.

She puts the gardenia on his lapel.

She leads him over to the buffet.

They reach the buffet.  Max is ready with two

glasses of champagne.  Norma hands Gillis a glass.

They drink.

She opens her arms.

They start to tango.  After a moment --

Norma pulls the paradise feathers from her hair

and tosses them away.

As they play the tango, the musicians eye the danc-

ing couple, take in the situation, exchange glances

and turn away with professional discretion.

Gillis glances at his wrist watch.

They dance on.  Gillis is acutely embarrassed.

THE CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK, PANS past the faces

of the musicians, who play on with a rather overe-

mphasized lack of interest.  Finally it winds up

on Max, behind the buffet.  He stands watching Gillis,

a faint trace of pity in his eyes.

DISSOLVE TO:

CIGARETTE GADGET, as she          GILLIS' VOICE

inserts a cigarette.        I'm sure a lot of you will

PULL BACK TO:

NORMA AND GILLIS sitting on a couch in front of the

cavernous fireplace.  Norma holds out her cigarette

to Gillis, who lights it.

Gillis opens the box.  It contains a matched gold

cigarette case and lighter.

Gillis snaps open the case.  Engraved inside the

cover is: TO JOE FROM NORMA, and two bars of

music.

He rises.

Gillis doesn't answer.  Norma slaps his face and

rushes from the room and upstairs.

Gillis stands paralyzed, the slap burning his cheek.

Norma rushes up the last few steps, down the corridor

and into her bedroom, banging the door.  MOVE THE

CAMERA toward the closed door, centering on the

gouged-out lock.

He still stands motionless.  He glances around fur-

tively, to see if his humiliation has been observed.

The musicians are playing away.  They have turned

their eyes away from Gillis rather too ostentatious-

ly for comfort.

His eyes move over toward

He is subtler than the musicians.  He appears very

busy at the buffet, putting empty bottles and used

glasses on a tray.  He walks across the room with

them.

He starts slowly out.  As he does so his long gold

key chain catches on a carved ornament of the sofa

and holds him for a second of additional embarrass-

ment.  He yanks it loose and walks with as much

nonchalance as he can muster to

Crossing towards the coat closet, Gillis throws a

look upstairs.  Then he pulls the Vicuna coat from

its hangar and slips into it as he crosses to the

entrance door.  He opens the door on the darkness

of the courtyard.

(NIGHT - RAIN)

Gillis shuts the door.           GILLIS'VOICE

He takes a few steps       I didn't know where I was

forward, then stands       going.  I just had to get

for a while breathing      out of there.  I had to be

deep.  The rain is         with people my own age.  I

balm to that cheek         had to hear somebody laugh

where the slap still a     again.  I thought of Artie

burns.  He walks for-      Green.  There was bound to

ward with a great          be a New Year's shindig

sense of relief.           going on in his apartment

Gillis walks to the

street, which is dark

and empty.  He starts

down Sunset in an

Easterly direction.

A car passes.  He

tries to thumb a

ride, without success.

However, the second

car, a florist's

delivery wagon, stops.

Gillis jumps in and the

car drives off.

DISSOLVE TO:

It is the most modest one-room affair, jam packed

with young people flowing over into the miniature

bathroom and the microscopic kitchenette.  The only

drink being served is punch from a pressed-glass

bowl -- but everybody is having a hell of a time.

Most of the men are in slacks and sweaters, and only

a few of the girls in something that vaguely suggests

party dress.

Abe Burroughs sits at a small, guest-festooned piano

and sings Tokio Rose.  By the door, a group of young

men and girls respond to the song by sing1ng Rinso

White or Dentyne Chewing Gum or something similar,

in the manner of a Bach choral.  Artie Green, a dark

haired, pleasant-looking guy in his late twenties,

is conducting with the ladle from the punch bowl.

The door behind some of the singers is pushed open,

jostling them out of their places.  In comes Gillis,

his hair and face wet, the collar of his Vicuna coat

turned up.  Artie stops conducting, but the commer-

cial goes right on.

Gillis greets some of the kids by name as he and

Artie push their way into the room.

Artie starts peeling the coat off Gillis.  Its

texture takes his breath away.

He has taken the coat.  He looks at Gillis standing

there in tails.

Gillis stands embarrassed While Artie rolls up the

Vicuna coat and tucks it above the books on a book-

shelf.

The two make their way toward the punch bowl.  It's

a little like running the gauntlet for Gillis.  There

are whistles and 'stares of astonishlnent at his tails.

When they reach the punch bowl, Artie picks up a

half-filled glass and fills it.

He runs his finger across the decollete back of a

girl standing in a group next them.

The girl turns around.  She is Betty Schaefer.

Gillis looks at her a little puzzled.

Gillis squeezes his way through groups of people

to the telephone, which is next to an open door

leading to the bathroom.  The phone is busy.  A

girl sits listening to it, giggling wildly.  Another

girl beside her is laughing too.  They are apparently

sharing a conversation with some man on the other end

of the wire.  The telephone passes from hand to hand.

Gillis watches impatiently, then

The girl just nods, going on with her chattering.

Gillis stands waiting, and Betty Schaefer comes up

with his glass.

There is too much racket for her.

They squeeze their way towards the bathroom, past

Artie.

She and Gillis go through the open door into

It's a little less noisy, although there are some

guests there, chatting and having fun.  Betty and

Gillis sit down on the edge of the tub.

One of the girls who was on the phone comes to

the door.

He leaves.

Gillis squeezes himself through some guests to

the phone.  He has to stand in a cramped position,

holding the instrument close to him as he dials

a number.

Max is at the phone, in the lower hall.

Max hangs up, moves toward the staircase.

He hangs up the dead receiver, stands numb   with

shock.  Betty elbows her way up to him, carrying

the two punch glasses filled again.

Gillis looks up at her.  Without a word he pushes

her aside so that she spills the drink.  He makes

his way through the guests to the Vicuna coat, pulls

it from the shelf, some books tumbling with it, and

rushes towards the door and out.  Betty stands look-

ing after him, completely bewildered.

DISSOLVE TO:

The doctor's car is parked in the driveway.  A taxi

pulls up.  Gillis, in his Vicuna coat now, jumps

out, throws a couple of dollars to the rdriver and

runs toward the house.

Max is opening the door to let out the doctor, a

professional looking man carrying a black bag.

Gillis runs into the SHOT.

Gillis starts to push past Max.  Max grabs his arm.

Gillis goes into the house.

Gillis crosses the hall and starts up the stairs.

Only one alabaster lamp lights the big, cold room.

On the bed lies Norma in her evening dress.  She is

white as a sheet.  Her wrists are bandaged.  Her eyes

are wide open, staring at the ceiling.  One of her

shoes has halt slipped off her foot.  The other is

on.  Gillis opens the door and stands there tor a

second.  Then he slowly moves to the toot of the bed.

He takes the shoes from her feet and puts them on

the floor.

She puts one bandaged forearm over her eyes, sobbing.

Gillis walks slowly over to the mantelpiece, stands

there for awhile.

Gillis stands looking at her helplessly.

The candles burned down, the orchestra playing to

the emptiness.  The orchestra leader looks at his

watch, rises, silences the orchestra, then starts

them in on Auld Lang Syne.

Gillis still stands.  Norma lies on the bed, arms

over her eyes, sobbing.

Norma continues to sob.  Gillis goes to the bed,

puts his arms on her shoulders and turns her around.

Norma looks at him, tears in her eyes.  Slowly she

enfolds him in her bandaged arms.

She kisses him.

DISSOLVE

DISSOLVE IN ON:

DESMOND'S HOUSE (DAY)       Around the middle of May

The telephone is heard      which I think I should tell

ringing.  Max comes from    you about.

living room to the phone,

picks it up.

READERS' DEPARTMENT

He hangs up.  From off comes:

It is a sunny day.  The garden is in somewhat better

shape.  The old house looks less unkept.  The pool

is filled.  Norma sits on a wicker chaise longue, her

face shielded by an enormous straw hat, her eyes by

dark glasses.  Gillis, in bathing trunks, is on a

rubber mattress in the pool.  Max comes to the

entrance door.

He starts to turn back.

He goes into the house.

She indicates a typewritten letter she is holding.

She puts the towel around his sholders and starts

drying him.

She kisses him.

DISSOLVE TO:

DOWN SUNSET ABOUT 8:30

IN THE EVENING                    GILLIS' VOICE

Max is driving.  In the     were going to the house of

tonneau sit Norma, in a     one of the waxworks for

chinchilla wrap, and        some bridge.  She'd taught

Gillis in his tuxedo.       me how to play bridge by

Norma is rummaging          then, just as she'd taught

through her evening         me some fancy tango steps,

bag.  She finds a           and what wine to drink

cigarette case, opens       with what fish.

it.  It is empty.

She takes a dollar bill from her purse and gives it

to him.

The car drives up and Gillis hurries into the store.

Business is still rather lively.  There are about a

dozen shoppers, and the soda counter is half filled.

Gillis enters and steps to the tobacco counter.

The girl opens the glass showcase to locate the fancy

brand.  From OFF comes

Gillis turns.

Artie Green and Betty Schaefer sit having a sandwich

and a milk shake.  With his forefinger and a sound

effect, Artie riddles Gillis' body.  Gillis walks

INTO THE SHOT.

Max has appeared in the door.

Max leaves.

He leaves.

Gillis comes from Schwab's, gets into the car.

Max takes off.

He realizes he's forgotten them, takes the dollar

and hands it back to her.

DISSOLVE TO:

DESMOND'S HOUSE

(EARLY AFTERNOON)

Start on a tiny                       GILLIS' VOICE

parasol being             Whenever she suspected I

twirled...Norma           was getting bored, she

peeks out from one        would put on a live show

side of the parasol,      for me: the Norma Desmond

a bandanna tied           Follies.  Her first number

around her head with      was always the Mack Sennett

a rabbit's-ear bow.       Bathing Beauty.

She bats her eyes,

winks roguishly.

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal that Norma's black

pyjama trousers are rolled up over her knees and her

black stockings rolled down below them.  The whole

effect approximates a Mack Sennett bathing costume

pretty effectively.  She points at a leather pour.

She climbs on it, pantomimes timidity, an attempted

dive, then jumps off.

Gillis lolls on a couch, watching the performance,

very bored.

She runs out of the                 GILLIS' VOICE

picture.  Gillis has      Something was the matter,

closed his eyes.          all right.  I was thinking

THE CAMERA MOVES to       about that girl of Artie's,

his face.                 that Miss Schaefer.  She

Gillis opens his eyes.

Norma has equipped herselr with a derby hat, a cane,

and blacked in a small moustache.  She goes into a

little Chaplin routine.  While she is doing it, the

telephone rings.  After a moment Max comes to the

living room door.

He bows and exits.

DISSOLVE TO:

OF THE LIMOUSINE,

DRIVING DOWN MELROSE

She is in full makeup,             GILLIS' VOICE

with a veil, a daring     About three days later she

hat, a suit so stunning   was good and ready.  In-

only she would venture    credible as it may seem,

to wear it.  THE CAMERA   there had been some more

PULLS BACK.  Beside her   of those calls from

sits Gillis in the glen   Paramount.  So she put on

plaid suit.  Max is       about half a pound of

driving.                  makeup, fixed it up with

Norma is examining her face in the mirror of her

vanity.  Max, while driving, sees her in the rear

view mirror.

With a handkerchief, she corrects it.

The car drives down Bronson and stops smack in front

of the iron gate.  A young policeman is talking to

an extra; an old policeman sits reading a newspaper.

Max sounds the horn impatiently.

Norma has rolled down the window on her side.  She

calls to the old policeman.

They fling open the gate.

They drive through the gates.  The old policeman

goes to wall phone beside the gate, dials a number.

A scene from SAMPSON AND DELILAH is being rehearsed

in the background.  The usual turbulent activity

surrounds it: extras.  makeup men, grips,

assistants, etc., etc.  In the dim foreground a

stage hand is answering a stand telephone.  He

puts down the phone and moves (CAMERA WITH HIM)

to a second assistant.

The second assistant walks (CAMERA WITH HIM)

to the first assistant.

The first assistant (CAMERA WITH HIM) hurries

to the set.  Sitting with his back toward us

is C.B. himself.  He is rehearsing a scene with

Hedy Lamarr.

C. B. turns his head.

By this time de Mille is on his feet.

He leaves, accompanied by his entourage.

Norma's limousine drives up.  Max dismounts

and opens the door.

She presses his hand against her cheek, descends

from the car and walks toward -

The first assistant is holding it open.  In the door-

way stands Mr. deMille.  Seeing Norma, he stretches

out his arms.

She has reached him.  They embrace.

He leads her into

During the ensuing dialogue, Mr. deMille walks Norma

towards the set.

He walks onto the set, accompanied by his assistants.

Meanwhile, Norma starts to sit, sees the name

MISS LAMARR on the chair and with a look of

distaste changes and sits on the one marked

C.B. DE MILLE.    From somewhere comes

She looks around her.

Norma looks up at the scaffolding.

On the scaffold stands one of the electricians,

next to his light.

Norma waves at him.

Hog-eye points his light at her.

The beam of the lamp moves toward Norma.  It hits

her.  She sits bathed in light.  A couple of old

costume extras recognize her.

They rush over and start wringing her hand.  Into

the shot comes a middle-aged hairdresser.

Some elderly electricians and stagehands move in.

The first assistant brings the portable phone to

deMille.  DeMille lifts the receiver.

GORDON COLE ON THE PHONE.

He hangs up, walks back towards Norma.  (CAMERA

WITH HIM).

Norma stills sits in the shaft of light, surrounded

by about a dozen people who have come up to pay court.

DeMille gestures up to Hog-eye and the light shifts

away.  The people about Norma disperse slowly with

various ad-libs.

Norma hasn't heard a word.

Suddenly he realizes that she is crying.  She takes

the handkerchief from his pocket and puts it over her

eyes.

The first assistant comes up.

The scene starts.

Max stands talking to Gillis, who is seated in the

car.

The words "Readers' Department" have registered on

Gillis' mind.  He gets out of the car.

He crosses the street towards the green staircase

leading to the second floor.

Meanwhile, two prop men walking down the street

come into the SHOT.

Behind the desk sits Betty, typing the synopsis of

a novel, a half-eaten apple marking her place.  The

door behind her opens and Gillis enters.

She moves the book and the apple aside and points at

the free space on the desk.

Gillis sits on the desk.

From below comes the SOUND of the Isotta's horn.

There is another honk: from down below.

She reaches in a drawer for her notes on Dark

Windows.

Betty picks up the apple and is about to throw it

after him.

He ducks out quiokly, slamming the door behind him.

Betty looks after him, then angrlly hurls the

apple into the wastebasket.

Max is rush1ng up the stairs toward the descending

Gillis.

Max has seen something off.

With his head he indicates

The first assistant has opened the door.  DeMille

is showing Norma out.

She turns and walks out of the shot.  De Mille

stands for a second watching her, then turns to

his assistant.

They turn back into Stage 18.

Gillis seated in the rear.  Max is helping Norma

in and putting the robe over her.

There is an exchange of looks between Max and Gillis.

As he says the words, he and Gillis exchange a glance

in the rear view mirror.

SLOW DISSOLVE:

DISSOLVE IN ON:

Absolutely no makeup.  A       After that, an army of

hand with a strong small       beauty experts invaded

flashlight comes into the      her house on Sunset

picture.  The beam of the      Boulevard.  She went

flashlight travels over the    through a merciless

face, exploring it merci-      series of treatments,

lessly.  While the light is    massages, sweat cabinets,

still on it, two pairs of      mud baths, ice compres-

creamed hands come into the    ses, electric devices.

shot and start to massage it.  She lived on vegetable

DISSOLVE TO:                   at nine.  She was deter-

beauty treatments applied

to Norma.

DISSOLVE TO:

IN HER BEDROOM

It is nine o'clock in the evening.  She is in night

gown and negligee and has put triangular patches on

the saddle of her nose and at the outer corner of

each eye.  She is rubbing lotion on her hands.

She gets up and crosses to the door of Gillis' room

and opens it a crack.

It is dark except for a lamp over the chaise longue.

Gillis lies on it, fully clothed, reading a book.

Through the slit in the door there is a suggestion

of Norma.

Norma pushes the door open and comes in.

She bends and kisses the top of his head.

She goes into her room, shutting the door behind her.

Gillis puts his book down and looks at her door.

The light can be seen through the gouged-out

keyhole.  It goes out.

DISSOLVE TO:

AND HALL BELOW (NIGHT)                GILLIS' VOICE

Gillis, with his coat on by    Yes, I was playing hooky

now, comes cautiously to

the upper railing and looks    every evening along in

down into the lighted hall

below.                         there.  It made me think I

Max is just extinguishing      of when I was twelve and

the lights.  Max exits in,

the direction of the liv-      used to sneak out on the

ing room.

After a moment Gillis starts

silently down the stairs.      picture.  This time it

(Lighted only by the last

flicker of a fire on the       one.  That story of mine

hearth).  Max is putting a

fire screen in front of        Betty Schaerer had dug

the fire.  He hears some

steps and the creak or the     up kept going through

main door being opened.

He looks out and sees          my head like a dozen

Gillis, in the moonlit porch,

is closing the main door

behind him.

Max looks after Gillis, his

face enigmatic as ever.

DISSOLVE TO:

(MOONLIGHT)

Gillis comes into the shot,

gets into the Isotta, drives

it out or the garage and down

the driveway to Sunset, as

quietly as possible.

DISSOLVE TO:

PARAMOUNT (NIGHT)

Start on a LONG SHOT.  THE             GILLIS' VOICE

BOOM MOVES FORWARD to the only     So we'd started

two lights.  They are the door     working on it, the

and window of Betty Schaefer's     two of us.  Nights,

cubicle.  Betty sits at the        when the studio was

desk, typing.  Gillis, his         deserted, up in her

coat off, his shirt-sleeves        little cubby-hole

rolled up, j.s pacing the floor,   of an office.

discussing the construction of

a sentence.  The discussion at

a stalemate, Betty suggests

some coffee.  Gillis agrees.

From the electric plate on the

shelf beside her, Betty takes

a glass coffee machine.  Gillis

seats himself in her chair

and starts typing.

Betty opens the door and comes out on the balcony to

fill the coffee machine from the water cooler stand-

ing beside the door.

She moves back into the room.

He resumes typing.  Betty puts the water on.  She

picks up a pack of cigarettes on the desk, finds it's

empty and throws it away, sees Gillis' open gold

cigarette case and lighter on the table by the couch.

Betty reaches for a cigarette.  The inscription en-

graved inside the case catches her eye.  It reads:

DISSILVE TO:

PARAMOUNT STUDIO (NIGHT)      Sometimes when we got

Gillis and Betty are walking  litte tour of the

down it.  From a stage where  drowsing lot, not talk-

they are erecting a new set   ing much, just wandering

comes a great shaft of light. down alleys between the

They stop at an apple-vending sound stages, or through

machine in the foreground,buy the sets they were get-

themselves a couple of apples ting ready for the next

and walk on.                  day's shooting.  As a

DISSOLVE TO:                  on one of those walks

Betty and Gillis are walking down it, THE CAMERA

AHEAD OF THEM.

Gillis kisses her nose.  As he stands there, his

face close to hers -

They start walking in the direction of the office.

DISSOLVE TO:

Gillis gets out.  From the seat next him he takes a

batch of script, folds it and puts it in his pocket.

He suddenly becomes aware that he is watched, turns.

Max stands in the moonlight, evidently waiting for

him.

DISSOLVE TO:

One lamp lit.  Norma, in a white negligee, with the

patches on her face, is pacing up and down -- a

small, tormented, pitiable woman.  Finally she opens

the door to:

Gillis lies in bed asleep, Norma in the doorway.

Her eyes fall on Gillis' coat, which hangs over a

chair.  In a pocket is part of the script.  Norma

takes it out, looks at it.  She can't see it in the

moonlight.  She hurries with it into:

Carrying the script Norma goes to the lamp and looks

at it.  On the first page she sees something which

confirms all her suspicionso It reads:

DISSOLVE:

Betty is typing.  Gillis sits on the couch, proof-

reading a scene.  Betty stops typing and Gillis

becomes aware of her eyes fixed on him.

Betty gets up.

Betty doesn't answer, walks out on

She leans against a post, crying.  Gillis comes out

after her.

Betty stands crying silently.

There is a moment's pause before he takes her in

his arms.  THE CAMERA MOVES AWAY.

DISSOLVE TO:

DESMOND HOME- (NIGHT)        It wasn' t until I got

Gillis enters, closes        prison of mine that I

the door as quietly as       started facing the facts.

he can, and goes up          There it was -- Betty

the stairs.                  Schaefer's future right

He enters and turns on the   a guy as ever lived.

light.  He sinks down on     And she was in love with

the chaise longue,thinking.  me.  Me ! She was a fool

His eyes wander to the       not to sense that there

door of Norma's room.        was something phony in

Through the gouged-out key-  my set-up.  And I was a

hole he sees the light.      heel not to have told

From Norma's room comes the sound of a telephone

being dialled.  Gillis enters the shot and stands

listening.

Norma lies in bed, dialing a number.  She has the

beauty patches at the corners of her eyes and over

her nose.

Connie, a girl of Betty's age with whom she shares

the flat, is on the phone.  Betty, in a dressing-

gown, comes from the bathroom, toothbrush in hand.

During the latter part of her call, the doors from

Gillis' room have been pushed open and Gillis has

walked towards her.  Suddenly Norma senses his pre-

sence and turns around.  The telephone freezes in her

hand.  She tries to hang it up.  Very calmly Gillis

takes the receiver from her hand.

Norma beside him.

He hangs up.  Norma looks up at him as he crosses to

the other end of the room and stands staring at her.

The silence becomes unbearable.

Connie is looking at the house numbers.

Betty turns the car into the driveway of Norma's

place, stops at the entrance steps.  Betty gets out.

She shuts the door of the car and goes up the steps.

Norma lies on the bed.  Gillis sits in a far corner

of the room, motionless.

There is the sound of footsteps below and the ringing

of a doorbell.  Gillis rises.

Without a word, he leaves the room.  Norma raises

herself on the bed, reaching for a black negligee

lying at the foot of it.  As she does so, she dis-

lodges her pillow a little, revealing a revolver

hidden beneath it.

Max crosses the hall, putting on his alpaca jacket.

He turns on the lights.  Outside stands Betty.

From the staircase comes -

He stands back as Gillis opens the door.

Betty enters.  As he leads her into the living room,

Gillis puts his arm around her shoulders.

They have reached

Gillis leads Betty in.

He pulls the rope, showing the projection screen

under the picture.

Betty turns from him, to hide the fact that she is

crying.

He leads her in the direction of the door.

Sitting crouched behind the balustrade is Norma,

peering down into

Betty and Gillis have reached the entrance door.

Gillis opens it.

He switches on the light.

The lights go on in the pool, which shines brilliant-

ly in the dark garden.

She doesn't even look.  Her eyes filled with tears,

she runs down the entrance porch toward her car.

Gillis looks after her, closes the door.  From the

upper landing comes the sound of soft sobbing.  He

looks up.

Gillis ascends the stairs.

She tries to take his hand to kiss it as he passes.

He doesn't stop.  Norma catches his coat.  Gillis

moves right on into his room.  Norma lies on the

floor looking after him.  She crawls toward a con-

sole, pulls herself up by it, starts towards Gillis'

door, passes a mirror, realizes how she looks, moves

back to the mirror and takes the patches off her

face and does a hasty job of removing the cream with

her handkerchief, readjusts her expression to a poor

travesty of a smile and goes to the door of Gillis'

room.

She opens the door.

In the foreground, open on the bed, is a half-packed

suitcase, Gillis just putting some of his old shirts

in.  Norma stands staring, speechless, for a second.

Gillis moves out of the shot towards the closets.

He takes the cigarette case and throws it on the

chaise longue.  Then he throws the lighter, the

wrist watch, the platinum key-chain and the tie clip.

She rushes into her room.  Gillis closes the suitcase

calmly, notices that he is still wearing some cuff-

links Norma gave him, takes them off.

Norma reappears in the door, carrying the revolver.

During the preceding.  Max has entered.  He stands

listening, paralyzed.

He leaves.

Gillis picks up the typewriter and leaves.

Gillis descending with the typewriter.

There is the SOUND OF A SHOT.  The glass of the front

door is shattered.  Gillis at the door opens it and

walks out, without looking back.

Down the staircase rushes Norma.  a disordered wild-

ness in the way she moves.

She hurries after Gillis.

Dark except for lights from the house and the

luminousness of the lit pool.

Gillis is crossing the patio towards the garage.  He

is carrying the typewriter.  He doesn't accelerate

his step, although he has heard the shot.  Behind

him Norma comes from the lighted house.

She shoots twice in rapid succession.  Gillis drops

the typewriter.  The shots have swung him around.  He

is now facing Norma.  She shoots him.  This shot

hits him in the belly.  He doubles up, instinctively

backs away from her, plummets into the lit pool.

Up the stone steps from the garage rushes Max.

He sees the situation, hurries towards Norma, who

stands exultant in the strange light from the pool.

DISSOLVE TO:

Dawn is breaking.  At the edge of the pool

stand policemen, detectives and police photographers.

Motorcycle policemen are holding off the mob which

is trying to storm the house.

A lietuenant from the Homicide Bureau leaves the

crowd around the pool and goes into

It is filled with a pandemonium of police officers,

newspaper people, etc.  who are kept from the upper

floor by two policemen at the head of the stairs.

The lieutenant from the Homicide Bureau goes

through the crowd to the telephone at the foot of

the stairs, picks up the phone and dials.

Standing talking into it is Hedda Hopper.

THE CAMERA PANS TO ANOTHER PART OF THE BEDROOM, where

Norma sits at a mirror, staring at herself blankly.

Firing questions at her are the Captain of the Holmby

Hills Division and the L.A.  Homicide Squad.  Max

stands by faithfully.

The body of Gillis   Well, this is where you came.

being fished from    Here's that pool again,the one

the pool, put on a   I always wanted.  They must have

stretcher, covered   photographed me a hundred times.

with an army blanket.Then they got a couple of prun-

Two men from the     ing hooks from the garden and

Coroner's office     fished me out ever so gently.

carry it towards     Funny how gentle people get with

the Coroner's        you once you're dead.  They

hearse, CAMERA       beached me, like a harpooned

PANNING with them.   baby whale, and started to check

The interrogators are still firing questions at Norma

who sits lifeless, staring at herself.  Max watches.

A police lieutenant has entered, goes to the Head of

Homicide.

A word has pierced the mists that surround Norma.

Max flashes a look at the Head of Homicide.

She takes a comb and runs it through her hair, then

starts applying some wild makeup.

Max makes his way down the stairs through the crowd

of newsmen to the newsreel cameras, which are being

set up in the hall below.

From the stairway comes a murnur.  They look up.

Norma has emerged from the bedroom and comes to the

head of the stairs.  There are golden spangles in

her hair and in her hand she carries a golden scarf.

The police clear a path for her to descend.  Press

cameras flash at her every step.

Max stands at the cameras.

The portable lights flare up and illuminate the

staircase.

Norma arranges the golden             GILLIS' VOICE

scarf ebout her and proudy    So they were grinding

starts to descend the stair-  after all, those cam-

case.  The cameras grind.     eras.  Life, which can

Everyone watches in awe.      be strangely merciful,

At the foot of the stairs Norma stops, moved.

FADE OUT.

