<b><!--

</b>

<b>/*

</b>Break-out-of-frames script

By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com)

Over 400+ free scripts here!

Above notice MUST stay entact for use

<b>*/

</b>

if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Sweet Smell of Sucess

FADE IN:

EXT. INT. GLOBE NEWSPAPER BUILDING - DUSK - N.Y.

A row of newspaper delivery trucks is lined up against the

long loading bay, waiting for the edition.  In the foreground

a large clock establishes the time as 8:10 PM. A rumbling

noise warns the men to take their positions; a few seconds

later the bales of newspapers come sliding the spiral chutes

onto the moving belts from which they are manhandled onto

the trucks.  Much noise and shouting.

The front truck moves out to the city street.  As it does

CAMERA EMPHASIZES the big poster on its side.  The design

features a large pair of spectacles with heavy rims - a

trademark of Hunsecker's. (It will later be seen as the

masthead of the gossip column.)

EXT. BROADWAY - DUSK - N.Y.

The truck starts on its journey along Broadway.  Some shots

are of the vehicle moving through very heavy traffic (taken

from a camera car).  Others are from the inside of the

truck; as it slows down, the delivery man tosses the heavy

bundle of papers onto the sidewalk.  CAMERA following the

truck, holds it in foreground against the blazing electric

signs of Broadway and Times Square.

EXT. BROADWAY - NIGHT

The southeast corner of the intersection of Broadway and

46th Street, CAMERA, fairly high, shoots north towards the

impressive vista of electric signs, silhouetted against the

darkening sky.  Very heavy traffic and crowded sidewalks.

CAMERA descends towards the Orange Juice stand on the

corner, passing the booth which sells souvenir hats.  It

moves through the congestion of chattering passersby,

steadily approaching a smartly dressed young man, who stands

at the counter of the Orange Juice stand.  Oblivious of the

hub-bub around him, SIDNEY FALCO is concerned only with his

private problems.

He turns sharply as a newspaper truck pulls up at the curb

behind him; this is what he has been waiting for...

CLOSER ANGLE - NIGHT

The news truck delivery man tosses a bundle out onto the

sidewalk besides a newsstand.

DETAIL

The bundle of newspapers.  It hits the sidewalk with a smack.

CAMERA PULLS BACK as Sidney Falco crosses the sidewalk.  The

owner of the newsstand, IGGY, comes to pick up the bundle;

he is a grizzled gnome with a philosophical sense of humor;

Sidney snaps his fingers with impatience.  Iggy wears

spectacles and is clearly more or less blind, he has to

grope for the cord that binds the papers.

Majestically taking his time, Iggy lifts the bundle to his

stand and cuts the cord.

Annoyed, Sidney throws him a dime, seizes a paper and

returns briskly to the orange juice stand.

ORANGE JUICE STAND - NIGHT

Sidney's place at the crowded counter has been taken by

newcomers.  Rudely, he recovers his half-consumed glass of

orange juice and sandwich.  He takes them further down the

counter to a quieter corner at which he can examine the

paper.  CAMERA MOVING WITH HIM, picks up further snatches of

overheard dialogue. (See dialogue attached at the end of the

scene) We move close enough to see Sidney's hands open the

paper expertly at HUNSECKER'S column - identifiable by the

picture of the spectacled eyes.  Over scene there is a

babble of offstage dialogue.

CLOSE UP OF SIDNEY

His face is sullen as his eyes run rapidly down the column.

He is reacting to a not unexpected disappointment.

EXT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - BROADWAY - NIGHT

CAMERA SHOOTS WEST on 46th Street, as Sidney comes down the

side street from the newsstand in background.  Irritably, he

jerks open the door of a shabby entrance.  As the glass door

closes, Sidney is seen striding up the stairs.

FIRST FLOOR - OUTSIDE SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Beside the top of the stairs is the door to Sidney's office.

On it there is a cheaply printed cardboard sign which reads:

SIDNEY FALCO

Publicity

From inside comes the sound of desultory typing.  Sidney

comes up the stairs two at a time and turns into the door.

INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

SALLY is on the phone as Sidney strides in.

Sidney vigorously indicates that he doesn't want to take the

call.

She hangs up.

He has begun to change his clothes.

Sally goes back into the outer room.

Sidney, in a state of semi-undress, comes to take the phone

from her.

Very abruptly, he comes alive on the phone.  A real laughing

boy.

INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

Robard is a stolid, secure man, balding and with a moustache.

He has a morose sense of humor.  He is speaking from a

telephone on a little desk at the end of the bar.  In

background, the Club is open, but there are few customers as

yet.  Some recorded jazz is being played while the musicians

are still arriving, strolling past in background, depositing

their overcoats and music cases in the little closet assigned

to them.

RESUME SIDNEY

Sally is watching him, unhappy on his behalf.

But Robard has cut off.  Sidney hangs up.  A silence.  Sally

tries to be comforting.

Sally, hurt, says nothing.  Presently, he adds:

Sidney, with another mercurial change of manner, begins some

sarcastic clowning.

Sidney is abruptly savage.

She is crying.  Sidney feels uncomfortable.  Not too

generously, he relents:

The phone rings.  Sidney is dressed by now.  As Sally goes

for it, he makes for the outer door.

He is already gone as she picks up the phone.

INT. ELYSIAN ROOM - NIGHT

The quintet.  As the dissolve clears, a clatter of polite

applause greets the end of a previous number.  CAMERA is on

the bandstand, moving smoothly through the group of five

musicians as the rhythm of a new number is set up: first the

leader (a guitarist) snaps his fingers, giving the tempo

to...the bass, who "walks" with the beat, bringing in...the

drums, which start a quiet, insistent wire-brush background

for...the cello and the flute, whose introductory phrases,

set the stage for...

STEVE DALLAS

...the guitar, the leader again.  It comes in after this

short preamble with the first statement of melody. (The tune

has a faint echo of significance because it is one of the

themes of the film, already heard as a phrase in the

background score of the title music.) CAMERA lingers a

moment on the guitarist, STEVE DALLAS.  He is a youth of

pleasant, intelligent appearance.  He plays with the intent

air of the contemporary jazz musician who takes his work

very seriously indeed and affects a much greater interest in

the music and his fellow musicians than in the listening

audience.

SIDNEY

A close shot.  Sidney has just entered the club, strolling

into the vestibule near the entrance.  He wears an expression

of oddly unsuitable antagonism, as he looks forward...

DALLAS

Seen in long shot from Sidney's viewpoint.  CAMERA moves to

include Sidney in foreground again.  He turns as he is

accosted by RITA, the cigarette girl of the club.  She is a

pert creature, attractive and not unaware of the fact.

Rita wears an injured air.  Sidney, preoccupied with other

worries, callously ignores it.

But Sidney has moved away from her.

D'ANGELO

He is at the bar, listening with satisfaction to the music,

watching the performers and studying the audience.  Sidney

comes up behind him.  We see Sidney's eyes flick from

D'Angelo towards the bandstand and back again.  Then, as he

takes the stool next to D'Angelo, he assumes a different

manner, a sulky resentment.  D'Angelo sees Sidney.

D'Angelo is still watching the quintet.  The guitar can be

heard again.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Shooting past D'Angelo and Sidney towards the bandstand.

D'Angelo looks quickly at Sidney, sensing the undercurrent.

Then he turns his back on the musicians, remarking in a

quiet tone.

A glum moment.  Frank sips his highball: Sidney lights a

cigarette, animosity on his face.

Frank again notes Sidney's resentful manner.  Sidney looks

towards the musicians.

A pause.  Sidney is thinking.

RITA

Locating Sidney, she comes up behind him.  He turns away

from D'Angelo as she whispers to him.  As she departs,

Sidney turns back.

Sidney gets off his stool.  Casually, but to effect, he adds:

He turns away, glancing towards Steve on the bandstand

behind him.

D'ANGELO

He looks disturbed.

INT./EXT. BACKSTAGE AND COURTYARD

From D'Angelo's point of view.  CAMERA LOOKS UP at Steve.

The Quintet is now reaching the end of the number, a driving

rhythm of considerable excitement.  A waiter passes in f.g.

and the CAMERA CRANES BACK through the curtained doorway to

the backstage part of the club.  This movement is continued

as we see some other employees, including Jerry Wiggins, the

intermission pianist, who is waiting in the corridor near

the fire-exit.  As he steps out of the door to discard a

cigarette, CAMERA AGAIN CONTINUES ITS MOVEMENT, CRANING BACK

AND DOWNWARD into the little courtyard.  Here, it discovers

the figure of a young woman who is waiting in the shadow

near the steps of the fire-escape, listening to the music.

CLOSER ANGLE

This is SUSAN HUNSECKER.  She wears an expensive mink coat.

It is oddly in contrast with her personality; the face is

sensitive and intelligent, but childlike and tragic.  A girl

in adolescence already burdened with problems beyond her

capacity.  Over scene, the music continues.  Susan shifts

her position, knowing that the session will soon be at an

end and that the musicians will be coming backstage.

INT. ELYSIAN ROOM

Steve is playing the last bars of the number; the whole

group now in unison.

QUINTET

The music comes sharply, dramatically to its finish.  There

is some applause.  The boys relax.  Steve reaches for the

microphone and in the characteristically casual manner of

the "cool" musician, announces the end of the set, thanking

the audience, identifying the quintet by name and introducing

the intermission pianist.  During this, Carson, Chico and

Paul wander off the bandstand behind him.

EXT. BACKSTAGE AND COURTYARD

Chico, Paul and Carson come through to the corridor backstage.

As they do so, Chico, glancing out of the open door sees

Susan in the courtyard.  He goes out onto the fire-escape;

Paul following behind.

Chico goes swiftly back into the club.  Paul remains with

Susan.  There is a momentary silence; Paul is embarrassed

because Susan is.  Susan makes an effort at conversation,

she nods towards the club.

INT. CLUB

Steve has been trapped by a young woman in spectacles, a

much-too-earnest devotee of progressive jazz.

CHICO

He comes through the curtains of the doorway, pausing as he

sees that Steve is involved with the Intellectual Young Woman.

REVERSE ANGLE

Steve glancing at Chico over the shoulder of the Intellectual

Young Woman.  Seeing that Chico has something to say to him,

he wriggles out of the young woman's clutches by passing the

buck to the unfortunate to Fred Katz, who is descending from

the bandstand behind him.

RESUME CHICO

Steve joins Chico and they go through the curtains into the

corridor outside.

CORRIDOR

Chico, smiling, explains:

STEVE

His reaction betrays some emotion. (Over scene the

intermission pianist has begun to play a Blues number.)

Steve moves a quick step towards the door to the courtyard,

then hesitates - almost as if he was afraid to go out.  He

meets Chico's eye again.

CHICO

He is amused, but sympathetic.

COURTYARD

Susan, waiting at the foot of the iron steps, turns as Steve

comes out on the fire escape above.  Steve comes quickly

down the steps towards her, slowing down when he gets a few

paces away from her.

SUSAN

She looks up at Steve.

STEVE

A CLOSE SHOT.  In his expression we read his mute inquiry...

RESUME SUSAN

Quite deliberately, with her eyes moistened by love and

affection...she nods.

REVERSE ANGLE

Great relief and happiness can be seen in the boy's face.

After a moment, he moves to her and she to him.  They

embrace swiftly, hold each other close and then kiss with

passion.  Presently, when the kiss is over, Susan speaks

softly.

Steve is still too choked with relief to speak.  For answer,

he clasps her more tightly to him.  The beam of light which

falls on the iron stairs behind them, narrows and then is

extinguished...

CORRIDOR

Paul has closed the door.  Turning, he shares a look with

the grinning Chico and Fred Katz who has managed to escape

from the young woman.  Before there is time for either of

them to make a remark, Sidney comes through the curtains

from the Club.

Sidney's manner is very friendly.  But it is immediately

apparent from the reaction of the other three boys that none

of them likes Sidney.  Fred is deliberately uncomprehending.

Chico's back is to the closed door which opens onto the

courtyard.  Chico nods in the opposite direction towards the

stairs.

COURTYARD

Steve and Susan are still embracing.  Steve is exultantly

proud and happy.

STEVE

His sobering reaction shows this is something important.

SUSAN

STEVE AND SUSAN

Turning her head, she makes a little gesture, an unconscious

movement, putting her fingers to her brow as if feeling a

headache.

Susan says nothing.  She looks to Steve, smiling, but the

smile is not too confident.

Susan stoutly shakes her head.  Defensively she reassures

Steve:

The topic evidently makes Susan uneasy.  In an effort to

dismiss something that she does not want to think about,

Susan puts her arms around Steve's neck again.

But Steve is not so ready to change the subject.

Now Steve responds.  He grins, holds her closer.

They laugh and enjoyably; but then, as the CAMERA MOVES, we

realize that Sidney is there on the fire escape above them;

his manner is affable.

Steve says nothing.  But he obviously resents the intrusion

and finds it difficult to conceal the fact.  Sidney comes

down the fire escape towards them.

Steve makes a move to lead Susan back inside.  It is a

gesture which appears to dismiss Sidney.  Sidney chooses to

take umbrage:

Steve turns to Sidney; his manner is quiet but challenging:

ANOTHER ANGLE

Frank D'Angelo has followed Sidney out onto the fire escape;

other members of the Quintet have also appeared.

Aggressively indignant, Sidney throws up his hands; he

knocks on the metal of the fire escape.

Sidney is trying to needle Steve; Steve's temper would

normally have exploded; but now he controls it.

SIDNEY

His face tightens; he appears to be mortally insulted and

controlling himself with difficulty.  He turns his back

swiftly on Steve, addressing Susan in a voice that has a

sharp edge.

Sidney starts quickly up the fire escape.  This makes Steve

angry and he steps forward to follow him.  But Chico

contrives, without seeming to interfere to obstruct Steve.

CORRIDOR

Sidney comes inside.  When he is out of sight or the group

in the courtyard, his manner swiftly changes.  It's obvious

now that his indignation was assumed; now he looks back

towards the courtyard and there is shrewdness in his eyes;

he is assessing Steve's temper.  But, presently, seeing

D'Angelo and the boys returning, he moves back to the

curtains into the Club.

COURTYARD

As D'Angelo and the other boys go inside, Steve turns back

to Susan.

INT. CLUB

Rita has succeeded in recapturing Sidney near the entrance

to the club.  Sidney, alert and interested, listens to her

while keeping his eye on the bandstand in b.g. where the

intermission pianist is finishing his performance and the

quintet are returning, ready to mount the bandstand again.

Sidney is amused.  Rita continues in a confidential manner

which is heavily loaded with sex appeal and not-very-

convincing air of injury.

Rita has mistaken Sidney's shrewdly calculating expression

for inattention.

Despite himself, Sidney chuckles; but she is distressed.

Sidney's eyes have been caught by something at the other end

of the big room.

STEVE AND SUSAN

From Sidney's viewpoint.  Susan has come back into the club

with Steve and seems to be taking leave of him.  She starts

to walk through the club on her way out.

RESUME SIDNEY AND RITA

Sidney, with half his attention on Susan and Steve, listens

to Rita's rueful protest.

Aware that Sidney is moving to leave her so that he can

catch Susan, Rita detains him with an appeal:

Rita is anxious to cement the offer.  Delicately, she asks:

She drops her eyes, nods.  Sidney pats her arm and is gone.

She looks after him.

SIDNEY AND SUSAN

Sidney overtakes Susan at the front entrance in time to open

the door for her.  He has now reverted to another mood in

which he appears to be sulking over the insult delivered to

him by Steve.  He goes out ahead of her.

BANDSTAND

The quintet are resuming their positions on the stand.

Steve lingers a moment, his guitar already in his hand while

he talks to D'Angelo.

D'Angelo hides his feelings, asks:

He mounts the bandstand.

Steve sits on the stool, quietly gives the beat to his group

and begins at once the guitar opening of a very simple and

lonely melody. (The Sage.)

ANOTHER ANGLE

While D'Angelo watches him, the boy continues.  CAMERA

tracks slowly back through the club as the chatter and

babble of the customers begins to diminish in appreciation

of the quiet melancholy of the music.

OUTSIDE THE ELYSIAN ROOM

Susan is standing beside the poster which features Steve,

listening to the music from inside the club.  Sidney comes

to join her.  He is now pretending to be hurt.

Susan shakes her head.  She looks up as she hears the

doorman's whistle off screen.  Sidney moves forward to

escort her to the taxi.

LONGER SHOT

They cross the sidewalk and get into the cab.  It starts off

and CAMERA PANS with it.

INSIDE CAB

Susan is relaxed, content but thoughtful.  Sidney flicks her

a quick, anxious look.  Finally, gloomily:

SUSAN

Quizzically, she studies Sidney.

SIDNEY

He looks up sharply, (he is momentarily startled at Susan's

insight.) Swiftly, he assumes a protesting air.

RESUME SUSAN

She is not totally convinced by this performance.  She

smiles skeptically.

RESUME SIDNEY AND SUSAN

Sidney makes a show of indignation.

Sidney doesn't immediately answer.  Susan drops her eyes,

becoming absorbed in her own problems.  Cautiously, Sidney

lets the momentary silence continue.  Then:

Susan says nothing.  Sidney, watching her closely, probes

further:

A pause.  Then Susan nods.  She is not looking at Sidney and

cannot see the watchfulness in his face.  Sidney prompts

again:

Again Susan nods.

SIDNEY

The news has considerable impact on him.  But he hides it,

saying lightly:

RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEY

Susan continues.

A pause.  Each is concerned with private thoughts.  Susan,

relaxed, adds quietly:

Susan ignores his remark, continuing thoughtfully:

The taxi has pulled to a stop.  Susan sits for a moment

before she remarks.

Realizing that they have come to their destination, Susan

gets up, moving out of CAMERA as she disembarks from the

taxi.  CAMERA catches a glimpse of apprehension in Sidney's

eyes.  Quickly, he decides to follow her.

EXT. BROADWAY

Susan, getting out of the taxi, moves past CAMERA.  Sidney,

following her, instructs the driver.

LONGER SHOT

Sidney moves after the girl, calling: "Susie!"

SUSAN

Hearing him, Susan turns back.  Sidney walks into shot to

join her.

They move through the doors.

REVERSE ANGLE

Sidney quickly corrects himself, saying earnestly:

SUSAN

Susan looks thoughtful, making no comment.

RESUME SIDNEY AND SUSAN

Carefully (again probing) he prompts her:

Susan turns away and walks out past CAMERA.  Sidney watches

her.

SUSAN

She looks back at Sidney, quietly firm.

She turns away and walks through the inner door, going down

the corridor towards the elevators in background.

RESUME SIDNEY

The sincerity of the girl's manner strikes home to Sidney.

Now that her back is turned we see the sharp twinge of pain

with which he hears the statement of her feelings for

another man.  Angered, he wheels, striding out of the door

onto Broadway.

EXT. BROADWAY

Sidney returns to the cab, instructing the driver:

He climbs in and the taxi drives off down Broadway.

EXT. TWENTY ONE CLUB - NIGHT

CAMERA HIGH, SHOOTING WEST down 52nd Street, as Sidney's cab

pulls up, double parking in front of the 21 Club.  Sidney

maneuvers his way between the parked cars towards the

entrance and the CAMERA DESCENDS to SHOOT ALONG the courtyard

towards the entrance.  We see the figure of Jimmy Weldon and

his girl friend coming out of the Club.

CLOSER ANGLE - NIGHT

Jimmy Weldon is coming out of the Club accompanied by a

girl; he is slightly tight.  As he steps through the outer

doors, Weldon again spies Sidney on the sidewalk; he steps

to one side of the entrance way.

Sidney slips through the congestion, but just as he tries to

enter the Club, Weldon's hand shoots out, neatly ambushing

him, pulling him aside into the narrow courtyard.  Sidney is

instantly resentful of this manhandling, but has to adjust

himself, assuming a quick smile for the benefit of Weldon.

Weldon, jibing at Sidney, plays his remarks off the girl,

who is amused; Sidney, of course, is not.

Sidney flinches, his pride touched.

The girl tries to quiet Weldon, who has gone from horsing to

loud contempt.

Abruptly Sidney bursts out, giving as good as he has taken:

Weldon, shepherded by the girl, is already on his way across

the sidewalk.

INT. TWENTY ONE CLUB - NIGHT

Sidney, entering the Club, threads his way through the

crowded foyer, coming up to CAMERA near the foot of the

staircase.  There he meets a Captain who turns to him.

Sidney moves past CAMERA, coming a couple of paces towards

the door to the restaurant.  He pauses.

REVERSE ANGLE

From Sidney's viewpoint.  Shooting through the doorway into

the restaurant, we can see the group at the table.

(Hunsecker's back is turned to us.) CAMERA PULLS BACK to

include Sidney in foreground.  He decides not to go into

restaurant and turns away out of shot.

INT. LOUNGE

Sidney comes round the corner from the foyer and walks

through the lounge to the door into the alcove where the

phone booths are, CAMERA PANNING.

PHONE BOOTHS

Sidney moves briskly past the girl at the switchboard,

instructing her:

The girl reaches for a book of phone numbers, then remembers:

As the girl, shrugging, puts through the call, CAMERA moves

closer to Sidney in the booth.  He hears the connection

made, speaks at once.

We are close enough to the instrument to hear the sound of a

voice on the other end.  Though the words are not

distinguishable, it is quite clear that the speaker is not

talking to the phone.  Sidney seems to relax, as if this is

something that happens often.  He waits, studying his

manicured fingertips...

Presently Sidney hears the voice on the other end become

clearer.  It asks: "Yes?" CAMERA moves closer as Sidney says:

Hunsecker's voice, filtered through the sound of the

telephone, is sharp and tiny; but the words are now very

clear.

There is a click as Hunsecker hangs up.  Sidney, more

slowly, also hangs up.  Brooding, he comes out of the booth.

INT. TWENTY ONE CLUB - LOUNGE

Sidney comes out of the door to the phone booths, walks

through the lounge to the hallway.  He turns towards the

dining room.

INT. HALLWAY

Sidney comes to the door into the dining room, CAMERA

tracking with him.  Here he pauses, looking towards...

HUNSECKER

From Sidney's viewpoint.  Hunsecker is seated at a table

which is cleverly his habitual position.  We see him only in

semi-back view, a broad and powerful back.  He is listening

to a man who has paused at his table, stooping over Hunsecker

to whisper in his ear.  As the columnist listens, his hands

play with an omni-present pad and pencil which lie on the

dinner table amongst an assortment of envelopes, mimeographed

sheets and a telephone.  Beyond Hunsecker and the man

talking to him are the SENATOR, the AGENT, and an attractive,

if fatuous GIRL.

The man leaves; Hunsecker is scribbling a note on the pad.

Meanwhile the Senator whispers something to the girl, who

giggles softly.

REVERSE ANGLE

Sidney comes across to the table, nervous but deliberate.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Hunsecker in foreground.

Sidney, without accosting him, stands a few feet from the

columnist's elbow and deliberately lights a cigarette.

Hunsecker, barely turning his head, sees him.  We have heard

of Hunsecker as a monster, but he is evidently in a mild

phase of his metabolism, for he seems gentle, sad and quiet,

as he turns his gaze casually to the Senator, totally

ignoring the young man who stands behind him.

SIDNEY

A close shot.  Sidney shows no reaction to this insult.  He

steps in closer, an Indian fixity in his face.

REVERSE ANGLE

Shooting across Sidney, onto Hunsecker.  J.J. turns - but

not to Sidney.  He raises his hand in a small gesture which

summons a passing Captain, who steps into picture at Sidney's

elbow.

The Captain is already there.  But now Hunsecker's eyes have

switched to Sidney's face.  For the briefest of moments,

nothing happens.  Then Hunsecker, seeming to relax and

ignoring the Captain whom he has summoned, turns back to

casual conversation with the Senator as if nothing had

happened.

In foreground, Sidney turns to the Captain with a carved

smile, indicating that Hunsecker's change of topic is to be

interpreted as sanction for Sidney to remain.  The Captain,

not entirely convinced, retreats.  Sidney finds himself a

chair, places it and takes a seat which is near enough to

the table to establish his presence.  During this:

Sidney's interjection is quietly well-mannered.  Hunsecker

totally ignores it.  The other members of the party are a

little astonished at the interplay.  The girl, in particular,

is fascinated; she clearly admires Sidney's looks.  The

Senator, noting this, glances at Sidney, accepting the point:

THE SENATOR, THE GIRL, AND THE AGENT

The girl looks again towards Sidney.  The Senator again sees

this, addresses Sidney pleasantly.

REVERSE ANGLE

Group shot.  The Senator in foreground, Sidney beyond

Hunsecker in background, and the others on edge of shot.

SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER

Sidney nods pleasantly to the Girl and the Agent.

Hunsecker is picking up the phone, continuing:

REVERSE ANGLE

To intercut with the above.  The Senator, the Agent and the

Girl watching Hunsecker.  The Agent's reaction to Hunsecker's

remark is a sickly smile.

RESUME HUNSECKER

He repeats aloud a story which is told him over the telephone.

During the speech, CAMERA eases back to include Sidney again.

At the end, Sidney looks up in the direction of the Senator.

RESUME REVERSE ANGLE

The Senator, amused, asks:

RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

Sidney glances sidelong at Hunsecker.

Hunsecker's face hardens; aware of Sidney's impertinence, he

does not design to react directly; he turns towards the Agent.

THE AGENT AND THE GIRL

The Agent glances uneasily at the Girl beside him.

RESUME HUNSECKER

He studies the Girl intently.

RESUME THE AGENT AND THE GIRL

RESUME HUNSECKER

Hunsecker's glance flicks between the Girl and the Senator.

As the Girl betrays herself with a nervous glance at the

Senator beside her, CAMERA eases back to include him.  The

Senator is unruffled; gravely, he lights a cigar.  The Girl

laughs.

RESUME HUNSECKER

Again his glance links the Girl and the Senator.

THE SENATOR, THE AGENT AND THE GIRL

The Girl and the Agent are both nervously uneasy.  The

Senator closely examines the tip of his cigar and, with

deliberation, turns towards Sidney.

SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER

Hunsecker, for the first time, half-turns in Sidney's

direction, amused.

RESUME THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATOR

They all look at Sidney.

RESUME SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER

Sidney bitterly resents the adjective, but contrives to hide

the fact; he smiles, gracefully accepting the compliment.

Hunsecker (who knows what Sidney feels) is pleased; he turns

towards Sidney expansively.

Hunsecker has started his speech lightly, but it has built

up to enough cold contempt and feeling to embarrass and

intimidate the others at the table.  In conclusion,

Hunsecker, his eyes on Sidney, picks up a cigarette and

waits expectantly...

Amused, Hunsecker lights his own cigarette, turns towards a

man who comes up to the table.

HUNSECKER

A single close up, to intercut with the above.

SIDNEY

A matching single; Sidney's reaction to Hunsecker and to the

others at the table.

THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATOR

To intercut with the above; their reactions of embarrassment.

GROUP SHOT

A florid MAN comes up to the table, obviously anxious to

catch Hunsecker's attention.  Hunsecker, in the act of

lighting, his own cigarette, scarcely looks at the man as he

dismisses him:

The florid man retreats.  To cover the embarrassment, the

Senator makes a sally in Sidney's direction.

SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER

Sidney doesn't answer.

RESUME THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATOR

RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

Hunsecker glances spitefully at the Girl.

RESUME THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATOR

The Senator continues to Sidney:

RESUME SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER

Sidney leans forward, indicating to the Senator some of the

items of paper that litter the table in front of Hunsecker;

these are both handwritten notes and mimeograph sheets,

scraps of assorted items from professional and amateur

agents who supply the columnist.  Sidney fingers some of them.

Sidney lifts a mimeographed sheet, as an example.

THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATOR

The Agent makes the mistake of trying to agree with Hunsecker.

CAMERA pulls back as Hunsecker leans forward across the

table.  He vents upon the unfortunate Agent some of the

annoyance prompted by Sidney's impertinence.

The Senator doesn't like this treatment of others and his

manner and face show it.

SENATOR

He finds Hunsecker's manner disturbing, but addresses him

frontally.

HUNSECKER

RESUME SENATOR

RESUME HUNSECKER

He leans back, speaking more quietly, enjoying himself.

AGENT

Hunsecker leans into shot pointing directly at the Agent.

Hunsecker points to the Girl and the CAMERA makes a slight

crab movement to include the Girl as Hunsecker points in

turn to her.

Another CAMERA movement.  Now Hunsecker is directly

challenging the Senator.

RESUME HUNSECKER

He smiles disarmingly.

Hunsecker rises.

GROUP SHOT

As Hunsecker stands up, Sidney follows suit.  The Agent,

very nervous, gets to his feet and the Girl does likewise.

The Senator, whose face is sober, also rises from the table.

With Sidney making way for him, Hunsecker walks round the

end of the table to the Senator.  The Senator faces Hunsecker

solemnly.

Hunsecker matches the Senator's solemnity.

Hunsecker moves out of shot.  Sidney murmurs a "pleased to

meet you" to the Senator; then he follows Hunsecker.  The

Senator remains looking after Hunsecker.  Behind him, the

Agent and the Girl, watch him apprehensively.  The Senator,

his face now showing the traces of guilt which he did not

reveal to Hunsecker, seems unwilling to turn back to face

them.

ON THE WAY TO THE FOYER

Hunsecker and Sidney.  Hunsecker addresses the Captain on

his way out of the restaurant.

CAMERA tracks with Hunsecker and Sidney as they move out

towards the hat check stand.

By now they are at the coatroom, Hunsecker smiling.

He accepts the proferred coat as he moves past CAMERA.

LONGER SHOT - NIGHT

The Doorman on the sidewalk has noticed Hunsecker, almost

before the columnist has appeared.  The Doorman wheels,

snapping his fingers and signaling towards the car park

attendant, who can be seen at some distance in the background

under the lights of the Kinney Car Park.  The attendant is

seen to react with alacrity, running into the Park.

HUNSECKER

Putting on his overcoat, he addresses another of the Captains

who has escorted him out of the Club.

Sidney catches up with Hunsecker as he moves out onto the

sidewalk.

Sidney thinks of an impertinent reply, decides not to be

drawn and says nothing.

Sidney again does not answer; this time he points across the

street...

LONGER SHOT - POLICE CAR - NIGHT

The car is framed in foreground; We can read the sign POLICE

attached to the visor.  Two men in plain-clothes, detectives,

are in the front seats.  The man nearest is HARRY KELLO.

Wanting to look like a prosperous business man, Kello looks

soft, fat, mild and well-barbered; but he is dangerous; he

knows it and enjoys it.  With "big shots" he is playful and

kidding, always says just enough, not too much.  He is very

relaxed, and mild in manner, but underneath there is not

only an animal energy, but a feral pressing at you.  His

voice is on the hoarse side.  He measures situations

automatically and instantly.

The police radio is chattering.  Also in evidence is the

telephone, the radio link with headquarters.  The detective

at the wheel nudges Kello, pointing across the street.

Kello gets out of the car and moves to meet the columnist.

Sidney follows a couple of paces behind Hunsecker; he is in

no hurry to meet the detective, whom he clearly dislikes.

REVERSE ON KELLO

Kello offers his hand to Hunsecker.

Hunsecker accepting the handshake, winces with pretended

pain at what is clearly an over-enthusiastic grip.

Kello laughs, releases the grip; Hunsecker strolls past him

stoops to lean into the car listening to the police calls on

the radio.

The detective inside the car answers, respectfully.

While Phil lifts the radio phone, calling headquarters,

Hunsecker turns back to Kello and Sidney.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Mischievously, Hunsecker nods at Sidney.

Instantly aware that J.J. is toying with Sidney, Kello

offers his large hand to Sidney, who refuses it.

The memory of something unpleasant clouds Kello's face.

The policeman in the car sticks his head out of the window.

ANOTHER ANGLE - 52ND STREET - NIGHT

Kello gets into the police car.

ANOTHER ANGLE - 52ND ST. - NIGHT

The car moves off eastward.  Sidney and Hunsecker walk

westward.  Sidney, falling into step with Hunsecker, glances

back at the departing police car.

CAMERA now SHOOTS down 52nd Street.  Hunsecker, back to

CAMERA, studies the evening, hearing the sound of a screech

of female laughter from one of the groups in the distance.

A drunk is being thrown out of one of the strip tease joints.

Amused, Hunsecker turns back; he signals across the street

to the car park, indicating that the big black Lincoln

Continental should follow as he strolls with Sidney.

HUNSECKER.  SIDNEY FOLLOWING.

CAMERA TRACKS with them in a CLOSE TWO SHOT.  Sidney is

alert now.

Hunsecker pauses, halts.

Sidney follows quickly.

Sidney steps in front of Hunsecker, blocking his way for a

moment.

Hunsecker, totally disinterested in Sidney's problems of

conscience, signals to his car again, walks past Sidney, who

continues rapidly:

Sidney quickly moves into J.J.'s path, desperate to hold his

attention.

Hunsecker walks past Sidney, now making for the car at which

the attendant still waits.

HUNSECKER

Hunsecker is HIT: he stops in his stride; he pauses and he

turns slowly to look at Sidney.  Lowering, he hesitates,

mind clicking...

REVERSE ANGLE - FAVORING SIDNEY

Sidney, his eyes bright, nods.  Hunsecker studies Sidney,

then:

A pause.

Sidney nods.

HUNSECKER

Expressionless, he examines Sidney.  Then he walks off

toward the car.  He tips the attendant, who thanks him, but

instead of getting into the back of the car, he makes a

small authoritative gesture to Nikko (double) to move over

so that Hunsecker himself may drive.  While Nikko does so,

Hunsecker turns back to Sidney, whom the CAMERA now includes.

SIDNEY

He is satisfied.

HUNSECKER

Hunsecker gets into the driver's seat beside Nikko, the

Japanese houseboy.  CAMERA is CLOSE on Hunsecker who does

not look back but is clearly aware of the position of Sidney

as he puts the car into gear, revving the engine...

SIDNEY - NIGHT

The big car accelerates with impressive power.  In doing so,

it sends a cloud of fumes and a swirl of dust in Sidney's

direction.  He leaps out of the way, too late.  CAMERA MOVES

closer to him as, with anger and ignominy he inspects his

precious clothing for damage.  But, as he looks after the

car, his face hardens into grim humor; he senses that this

petty gesture from Hunsecker is an indication of his

vulnerability, not his strength.  As, dusting his coat,

Sidney walks away, CAMERA RISES, watching his jaunty figure

cross the street in the direction of 51st Street.

INT. TOOTS SHOR'S RESTAURANT

A LONG SHOT looking over the round bar towards the entrance.

Sidney comes in through the revolving doors and comes toward

CAMERA.  His eyes search among the crowd.

CLOSER ANGLE

REVERSE ANGLE.  A CAPTAIN approaches Sidney.

The Captain nods towards a booth on the other side of the

bar where Mrs. Bartha is sitting alone.  Seeing that Bartha

is not with her, the Captain looks around the bar...

Sidney is looking back towards the entrance hall, where...

BARTHA

Bartha comes forward (from the Men's Room) passing the

Captain and Sidney.  Sidney moves to intercept him.

ANOTHER ANGLE

A CLOSE SHOT on Bartha as he turns towards Sidney, stopping.

SIDNEY

Sidney smiles at Bartha, but the threat is clear.

RESUME BARTHA

He throws a quick glance at his wife in the booth in

background.  CAMERA PULLS BACK as Sidney, who has noted the

look, moves closer to Bartha.

Sidney is pulling out of his pocket a pad on which to

scribble the item.  But Bartha faces him squarely, speaking

sotto voce but with emphasis:

Bartha turns on his heel and turns to walk towards his wife

beyond.

SIDNEY

Sidney's face tightens.  After a pause, he makes a decision

and walks towards the booth.

BARTHA AND HIS WIFE

Bartha's wife is reading a tabloid and sipping champagne

while her husband resumes eating a sandwich.  These two are

antagonists in a long war.  Sidney comes up to the table,

repeats:

Bartha looks up.  What can he do?  Begrudgingly:

Mrs. Bartha pushes the champagne bottle in Sidney's direction

as Sidney sits pleasantly; Bartha concentrates on his

sandwich.

WIFE

Mrs. Bartha laughs, enjoying his deftness; then:

Mrs. Bartha turns to concentrate on the names in the racing

column of the tabloid.

BARTHA, WIFE AND SIDNEY

An ANGLE favoring Bartha and Sidney.  Bartha glowers at his

wife, resenting the fact that she has permitted Sidney to

join them.

produces his pad again, begins to write on it.

Bartha notes Sidney's writing.

She returns to her paper, ignoring them, Sidney finishes

scribbling the item.

He pushes the item to Bartha, who reads it, briefly.

Meanwhile:

Bartha pushes the item back towards Sidney.  Sidney glances

quickly at Bartha's stony face then, significantly, turns

towards his wife.

Bartha raises his head, looks squarely at Sidney with

contempt and anger.  His wife is unaware of this reaction.

Still looking at the paper, she murmurs:

Sidney pushes the item back towards Bartha.

WIFE

Mrs. Bartha's attention is attracted by Sidney's gesture.

She looks up, made aware of this strange by-play.

BARTHA AND SIDNEY

A CLOSE TWO SHOT.  Sidney waits; Bartha is white-lipped, but

pushes the item back again:

RESUME WIFE

She looks from Sidney to her husband and back.

RESUME BARTHA, MRS. BARTHA AND SIDNEY

The THREE SHOT favoring Bartha and Sidney.  Both Sidney and

Bartha are now aware of Mrs. Bartha's curiosity.

A moment of chill silence.  Then Bartha gets to his feet,

signals for a waiter.  As Sidney rises also:

She quickly studies her newspaper again.  As quickly, Bartha

leans across the table and snatches it out of her hands.  In

doing so, he upsets the glass of champagne, which contains

only a few drops.

SIDNEY AND BARTHA

Bartha turns challengingly to Sidney.

WIFE

She is brushing her lap with her napkin.

RESUME BARTHA AND SIDNEY

Bartha ignores her, again challenges Sidney.

The Waiter arrives in picture beside them, puts the check on

the table and goes.  Bartha picks it up.

RESUME WIFE

Still mopping her dress with her napkin, she waits for her

husband to speak.

BARTHA

He glances unhappily at his wife.

MRS. BARTHA, BARTHA AND SIDNEY

A THREE SHOT favoring Mrs. Bartha, her husband and Sidney in

foreground.

Sidney decides to retreat.  He turns, starts to go.  But

Bartha blocks his way, holding Sidney and explaining to the

Wife.

A momentarily pause.  Then:

RESUME BARTHA

He is uneasy, ashamed of himself.

RESUME WIFE

She says nothing.

RESUME BARTHA, SIDNEY AND MRS. BARTHA

The ANGLE favoring Bartha and Sidney, Mrs. Bartha in

foreground.  Bartha now turns on Sidney.

Sidney tries to brazen it out, sneering:

Mrs. Bartha slides along the seat, reaching for her fur.

MRS. BARTHA

CAMERA PULLS BACK with her as she collects her belongings,

slides out between the tables and comes forward, passing

Sidney to her husband.

She presents her fur to her husband, and turns her back,

inviting him to put it around her shoulders.

BARTHA AND WIFE

ANOTHER ANGLE, favoring Bartha.  He has not fully understood

the significance of his wife's gesture.  He studies her.

She confirms his hopes as she adds:

With the fur around her shoulders, she turns and takes her

husband's arm with some pride.  They walk away.  CAMERA

ERASES BACK to include Sidney.  He is angry at himself -

more for the failure of his efforts at blackmail than any

sense of shame at the attempt.

OTIS ELWELL

A MEDIUM LONG SHOT.  At a booth on the other side of the bar

sits a dapper gentleman with a twinkle of malice in his eyes.

He has been watching the altercation with keen interest and

satisfaction.  Elwell gives some instructions to a waiter

who is serving him with drinks, pointing towards Sidney.

SIDNEY

Sidney's face shows a burning resentment.  He glances about

him to see how much of the embarrassing scene has been

observed.  As he moves away, the waiter walks into shot,

addressing him.

WAITER

A waiter approaches Sidney.  He has a message.

The waiter nods towards the other side of the circular bar.

Sidney, his humiliation and rage still burning, looks off

towards...

OTIS ELWELL

From Sidney's viewpoint.  Elwell beckons.

SIDNEY

He comes round the circular bar.  He shows no eagerness to

join Elwell, but approaches the table.  Elwell makes a

gesture, inviting Sidney to sit.  Sidney doesn't accept it.

Then, returning, he leans over the table addressing Elwell

with quiet anger.

REVERSE ANGLE

Across Sidney and Elwell.  Elwell is quietly enjoying

Sidney's display of hurt dignity.

SIDNEY

A CLOSE SHOT.  While Elwell continues, he is not looking at

Sidney.  Elwell's expression of dislike of Hunsecker is not

overemphatic; but Sidney senses, nevertheless, that it is

very real - and this gives him a new idea.

RESUME ELWELL AND SIDNEY

Elwell looks up at Sidney as he continues.

REVERSE ANGLE

Sidney has rapidly resumed his manner of resentment (in

order to exploit Elwell's dislike of Hunsecker).

ELWELL

He has lost interest in Sidney.

Elwell's voice fades: his attention has been caught by...

REVERSE ANGLE

...three people are passing the table, squeezing their way

past; a man with two very fetching young women.  Elwell's

eyes are riveted to the anatomy that is temptingly displayed.

ELWELL

He is unembarrassed at Sidney's all-too-accurate estimate.

Elwell turns back towards the papers on his table, a zippered

document case and some publications among which a columnist

might search for scandal; among these is a magazine of

semipornographic nature.

REVERSE ANGLE

The nature of Elwell's reading tastes is also not lost on

Sidney.  With his eyes glancing at the magazine, Sidney now

accepts the original offer to sit down.  He produces the

slip of paper that Bartha rejected, offering it as

illustration.

As Elwell reads, Sidney continues giving a passing scrutiny -

apparently casual - to a picture of a girl on the magazine

cover.

Elwell shows no undue enthusiasm for the item.

But Sidney doesn't take the paper back; he explains:

ELWELL

This does get a reaction, a flicker of genuine interest.

Elwell reads the item for a second time.

SIDNEY AND ELWELL

Watching Elwell read, Sidney encourages:

Now Elwell lays the item down in front of him.  Clearly, he

is considering it.  Sidney prompts again.

Elwell nods.  But he is still reluctant.

SIDNEY

Sidney drops his eyes to the magazine once more.  He fingers

it in a preoccupied but significant way.

ELWELL

His eyes go from the magazine to Sidney; he gets the point

alright.

Elwell reaches for the slip of paper once more.

SIDNEY AND ELWELL

In picking it up, Elwell clearly implies his readiness to

accept the item - on conditions.  Sidney, in his turn, gets

this point.  He turns towards the passing waiter.

INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rita is in the bedroom.  She appears to have some familiarity

to the premises... She hears the doorbell.  She makes swift

adjustment to her appearance and takes a swift gulp of a

drink as she carries it through to answer the door.

SIDNEY'S OFFICE

The outer room is lit only by one of the lamps on the desk.

Rita crosses and goes to the door.  Sidney's shadow can be

seen through the frosted glass.  At the door, Rita opens it

slowly and with a seductive manner.

Sidney steps into the room.  Rita begins to close the door

prior to stepping into his embrace.  Sidney puts one arm

about her.  But now she reacts to...

ANOTHER ANGLE

Otis Elwell stands on the landing outside.  In most

gentlemanly fashion, he takes off his hat.

RITA

This new arrival gets a dismal reaction from the girl.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Elwell is not unaware of his cool reception.  He glances at

Sidney as he comes into the room.  But his manner is suave.

Elwell sits down on the sette, stretches his limbs, smiles

at the girl.  Rita still says nothing.  Sidney mistakes her

attitude for acquiescence.  He swallows his drink, sets it

down.

Rita looks at him sharply.

He grins at Rita.  She doesn't respond.  Turning, she goes

swiftly through the door into the bedroom.

Emphasizing the asperity in her voice, she closes the door

behind her.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Elwell looks at Sidney; Sidney looks at Elwell.  Elwell gets

up slowly from the settee.

Sidney is uncomfortable, not sure how Elwell is taking the

rejection.  Elwell glances at his wristwatch, lays down his

drink.

Elwell shrugs, remarks pleasantly but with significance:

He goes into the bedroom, closing the door after him.

INT. BEDROOM

Rita is in a flurry of indignation.  Sitting on the bed, she

is fastening one high-heeled shoe.  Sidney stands glaring at

her.

Rita, who one shoe on, has begun to search for the other.

Rita jumps to her feet.  Her righteous indignation is

handicapped by the lop-sided stance caused by the lack of

one shoe.

Contemptuously he thrusts the coat and the shoe into her

arms.  The positive force of his manner gives the girl pause.

There is a silence.  Rita searches for words to explain the

offense to her sensibilities.

A pause.  Sidney has struck brutally home.  Rita's lower lip

trembles.

Sidney's manner becomes swiftly sympathetic - but still

urgent.

Rita begins to waver, her moral indignation losing ground

before Sidney's reminders of her dire necessity.

This attempt at humor signals to Sidney that he has brought

her round.  He comes to her, pats her in an encouraging

manner - to which she does not respond.

He turns to the door, and picks up the glasses she has set

down on the table behind it.

Sidney goes out.

SIDNEY'S OFFICE

Elwell overhears the last remark and as Sidney passes him,

he winks.  While Sidney pours another drink, Elwell faces

the doorway.  Rita comes into it, stands on the threshold.

She is still far from enthusiastic.

Rita shakes her head morosely.  Sidney comes and puts a

stiff drink into her hand.  Elwell raises the glass toasting

the girl, encouraging her to drink.  Rita responds dimly.

Sidney laughs, more from relief than from the joke.

At the door Sidney takes cheerful leave of them.

HALLWAY OUTSIDE SIDNEY'S APARTMENT

Closing the door, Sidney seems pleased with himself.  He

goes swiftly down the stairs.

INT. SIDNEY'S OFFICE

Rita remains on the threshold of the doorway between the two

rooms.  There is an uncomfortable silence.  Elwell carries

it off by coming to the girl, offering her a cigarette.  She

accepts it.  Elwell studies her, smiling affectionately.

Rita meets his eyes, avoids them again, then quietly offers

the information:

Elwell begins to laugh.  Whatever the memory, it seems to

amuse him vastly because he continues to laugh.

Rita drinks.  She adds glumly:

Elwell continues to laugh as we...

ORANGE JUICE STAND - NIGHT

Shooting east on 46th Street walks Sidney, coming out of the

entrance of his apartment, towards CAMERA.  He is pleased

with himself, satisfied with his ingenuity in dealing with

Rita and Bartha.

The streets behind him are dark and empty (it is about 3:00

in the morning).  CAMERA moves with Sidney as he steps

briskly into the orange juice stand and lifts the receiver

from the pay telephone.  There are no other customers at the

counter, but the man behind is squeezing orange halves for

the day ahead, piling up a mountain of empties some of which

fall at Sidney's feet.

EXT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

CAMERA shoots up at the penthouse on the roof of the Brill

Bldg.  The Budweiser sign is extinguished, a black silhouette

against the sky.  A light burns in the window of Hunsecker's

apartment.

INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

The ringing of the telephone is heard in the big room - an

impressively furnished apartment which has a decor indicating

that the owner thinks of himself in epic terms.

CAMERA moves to discover Hunsecker in robe and pajamas,

tapping at his typewriter.  Taking his leisurely time, he

picks up the phone and eventually answers it.

ORANGE JUICE STAND - NIGHT

CAMERA shoots past Sidney at the phone toward Broadway,

which is now deserted.  A street-flushing truck goes by,

moving through the dead city.

HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

Hunsecker is writing Robard's name on his pad, but he says

into the phone:

He cradles the phone, looks at it for a moment, switches his

eyes and then physically follows them, rising to stroll

towards the glass doors onto the terrace.  He moves out and

turns aside to look in at the adjoining window, which

belongs to Susan's bedroom.

INT. SUSAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

CAMERA shoots across Susan in foreground; she is asleep, a

tired, helpless, sweet kid.  The figure of her brother is

seen - a dark shape on the terrace outside.  He moves away

across the terrace.

EXT. TERRACE - NIGHT

Hunsecker turns from the window.  CAMERA is close on his

brooding face.  CAMERA tracks with him as he crosses towards

the parapet.  At this height there is a wind which blows his

hair and the movement of the camera emphasizes a remarkable

vista of the New York skyline.  The buildings are now dark,

only a few of the electric signs are left on all night.

CAMERA comes to rest looking over Hunsecker's shoulder; it

tilts downward to a view of Broadway below, Duffy Square in

the distance.

HUNSECKER - NIGHT

A close-up; Hunsecker is looking down on his "kingdom".  But

there is little love in the man's face, only authoritarian

power.

EXT. FROM THE TERRACE - NIGHT

From Hunsecker's viewpoint.  The streets empty, except for

an occasional passing taxi.  The street flushing truck comes

up Broadway from Duffy Square...

EXT. FROM THE TERRACE - DAY

The identical camera set-up.  Through the dissolve the light

changes from night to day; Broadway magically becomes a

roaring stream of traffic.

EXT. GLOBE BUILDING - DAY

In foreground a NEWS VENDOR.  Sidney comes out of the exit

of a subway, reaching for his pocket as he approaches the

news vendor who offers him a paper.

Sidney buys and opens the paper.  CAMERA MOVES closer to

shoot over his shoulder.  We see the gossip column which

bears a photograph of Otis Elwell at the top.  Smirking with

satisfaction, Sidney turns away from the CAMERA and throws

the paper into a trash basket before he disappears into the

impressive entrance of a large office building.  The sign

above the doorway reads: THE NEW YORK GLOBE.

INT. GLOBE BUILDING

Mary, Hunsecker's secretary, occupies a cubicle which is

separated form the rest of the newsroom by a partition.

From the big room beyond, comes the hum and chatter of a big

newspaper.  The walls of the urgent murmur of the staff of a

big newspaper.  The walls of Mary's cubicle are covered with

photographs; filing cabinets are piled high with unopened

mail; two wire service teletype machines click desultorily.

Mary is plain but attractive, past 30, a level-headed woman

with a sense of integrity.  She is on the phone just now,

bored with the insistent voice on the other end.  Beside her

an earnest young LAWYER waits with several papers in hand.

Sidney has come through the newsroom in background.  He

pauses tactfully, seeing Mary occupied with the lawyer.

As the disgruntled lawyer leaves, Sidney comes in, wearing

his most winning smile.  With a glance after the lawyer,

making sure that he is not observed, Sidney greets Mary,

assuming a brogue:

Sidney's hand caresses her shoulder with a gesture which

indicates a certain intimacy between them.

Sidney reaches for the phone.  As he does so, Mary hesitates

and glances at a copy of The Record which lies on the desk

open at Otis Elwell's column.  She picks it up.

Sidney murmurs casually, "Yeah.  Why?" as he dials.  Mary

holds up the paper, indicating the item.

Sidney accepts the paper from Mary, examines the item while

he talks to Sally on the phone.

He hangs up, continuing to read.

He discards the paper with a show of disinterest.  Mary

picks it up again.

Sidney moves around behind Mary.  His eyes are fixed on a

spike which sits on Mary's desk.  On it is impaled a proof

of Hunsecker's column.  Meanwhile, he remarks:

INSERT

From Sidney's viewpoint, Hunsecker's column.  The shot is

just too distant for us to be able to read the print.

SIDNEY AND MARY

Sidney is looking at the column.  Mary is concentrated on

papers before her.  Without looking up, she is clearly aware

of Sidney's efforts to read the proof.

Sidney, caught "in flagrante", laughs.

He turns away, changing the subject (apparently).

Mary turns to study him.

Mary is thoughtful.  Without malice, in a detached sort of

way, she examines Sidney.

Sidney finds this analysis hard to take.  Again he tries to

laugh his way out of it.

Mary, smiling, decides "to let him off the hook".  She takes

the spike and the column and passes it across to Sidney's

side of the desk, as she returns briskly to her business.

Sidney doesn't like this; but, on the other hand, he does

want to look at the column.  After only a momentary struggle,

he picks the column off the spike and reads.

He goes to the door, grinning.

She looks after Sidney, thinks about him for a moment.  Then

she types.

EXT. PALACE THEATRE - DAY

Sidney comes down 47th Street from Broadway, making for the

stage door entrance of the Palace theatre.  He walks

confidently into the alleyway, paying no attention to the

old doorman gossiping with the shoeshine boy at the chairs

next to the entrance.  The doorman turns, protesting:

Sidney, without halting, looks back towards the Doorman,

addressing him with the patronizing manner of a superior.

He is already on his way into doorway.

INT. BACKSTAGE OF PALACE THEATRE

The movie will soon by finished and the comedian who opens

the stage show is ready and made-up in the wings.  He sits

with his agent, (AL EVANS) a small, worried, bespectacled

man, who waves an unlighted cigar as big as himself.  They

converse in loud whispers, talking against the muffled and

echoing sound of the film sound track, silhouetted against

the ghostly, distorted images on the big screen seen at a

weird angle behind them.

The comedian, Herbie Temple, looks up.  Sidney comes through

a fire-proof door which separates the stage from the

corridors to dressing room.  In background two chorus girls

in costume are squeezed into a telephone booth.  Sidney

joins the comedian and the agent; he smiles to the comedian,

while he addresses the agent.

The agent looks from Sidney to Temple, surprised and

displeased.

Sidney has clearly never met Evans; blandly he chooses to

regard the agent's remark as an introduction; he offers his

hand with generous amiability.

The comic accepts the hand doubtfully.

Evans stands up, warns the comic.

Temple's smile congeals.

Sidney stands up.

Sidney moves toward the doorway onto the corridor.  The

chorus girls have now vacated the phone booth.

Smiling wise, Evans shakes his head.

Sidney presses, as if annoyed.

Temple turns away from Sidney, leaving him to Evans.

Evans moves to Sidney, trying to shepherd him out the way he

came.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Evans makes the mistake of laying a hand on Sidney's elbow.

Sidney doesn't like people touching him.  He reacts in

anger, as we have seen before - fixes a burning eye on Evans.

Sidney stops briskly up the stairs into the corridor.

Evans, angry, is stalled for a moment of delay action by

mention of the magic name of Hunsecker.

SIDNEY

But Sidney has already stepped to the phone booth and is

dialing.

REVERSE ANGLE

Shooting past Sidney in foreground onto Temple and Evans

beyond, they watch him, open-mouthed.  Sidney notes their

reaction.

INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Gloria is at her desk, bewildered as she speaks into the

phone.

RESUME BACKSTAGE OF PALACE THEATRE

While doing so, he glances back with disinterest at Evans

and Temple.  The comedian and the agent exchange looks.

Evans is uneasy; he comes up the steps into the corridor to

address Sidney with a deflated manner.

With his hand over the mouthpiece, Sidney addresses Evans

with contempt.

RESUME - GLORIA IN INT. OF SIDNEY'S APARTMENT

Shaking her head, Gloria places the phone down on the desk,

looks at it as it chatters away.  She considers returning to

her typing, but, worried, picks the phone up again.  Sidney's

chattering voice is barely audible: "You know Herbie Temple,

the comic...?  What about him?  He's at the Palace and he's

great.  That's what about him.  And you'd do me a big bunny

basket of a favor if you would say it in tomorrow's column.

RESUME BACKSTAGE PALACE THEATRE

Temple and Evans are now staring at Sidney with considerable

respect.

REVERSE ANGLE

The comedian and the agent in foreground, Sidney still on

the phone beyond.

The comedian and the agent in foreground, Sidney still on

the phone beyond.

He turns and walks away down the corridor.  As he vanishes,

Temple starts after him.

CORRIDOR

Sidney walks off in the direction of the exit -- (not so

fast that he can't be overtaken).  Temple hurries into the

corridor and comes after him.  Evans also follows, though

not so eagerly.

Sidney permits himself to be detained.

Evans, not as wholly convinced as the comedian, comes up to

join them.  Temple looks at the agent.

Sidney, shrugging, makes a negligent exit.

They look after him.  Evans face is cold and suspecting, but

Temple's face contains fresh warmth.

STAIRS OUTSIDE SIDNEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Sidney comes briskly up the stairs.  Outside his door he

pauses, listens, hearing the murmur of voices inside.  Then

he walks in casually.

INT. SIDNEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Sidney steps in, closing the door.  He pretends surprise as

he sees...

ANOTHER ANGLE

...Steve and D'Angelo waiting for him.  Sidney comes into

SHOT.  Sally remains at her desk while Steve and D'Angelo

are silent, looking at Sidney.

D'Angelo rises from the couch, crossing to Sidney to hand

him a copy of the tabloid, The Record.  It is folded open at

Elwell's column.  As he passes it to Sidney, D'Angelo marks

with his thumbnail an item near the bottom of the column.

Sidney takes the paper and reads. (He reads a little too

quickly.)  Then he hands it back to D'Angelo.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Steve notes Sidney's too-perfunctory reading.

Sidney turns on Steve, coldly:

REVERSE ANGLE

Favoring Sidney.  He pauses.

RESUME REVERSE ANGLE

Sidney's manner is a little too vigorous. (In adopting an

aggressive tone, he is really trying to needle Steve.)

Steve, though on the verge of losing his temper, is sharp

enough to notice the point:

D'ANGELO

Sensing the danger, D'Angelo moves forward soothingly

between them.

Steve, with a glare at both men, goes to the phone on

Sally's desk.  He dials.

In background Steve speaks quietly into the phone:

STEVE

Sidney's reaction to the mention of Susan's name gives Steve

food for thought.  While he waits for Susan to be summoned

to the phone, he studies Sidney.

INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - SUSAN'S BEDROOM - DAY

Susan is on the phone.  Listening to what Steve says, she is

frightened - almost too frightened; it is as if, in some

curious sense, she had been expecting this blow.  It brings

an echo of an earlier tragedy.

INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT

Steve is on the phone in foreground, the others watching him.

In particular, Sally, who stands near Steve, is studying him

with obvious sympathy.  She looks slowly towards Sidney.

He hangs up quietly, looks at Sidney and walks towards the

door.

ANOTHER ANGLE

As the door closes behind Steve, Frank follows, more slowly.

As D'Angelo reaches the door, he pauses with his hand on the

doorknob and turns back to study Sidney.

SIDNEY

He feels uneasy under D'Angelo's scrutiny.  Sally, in

background, is also watching Sidney.

D'ANGELO

He does not answer for a moment.  The unspoken accusation in

his look is very clear.  Then:

RESUME SIDNEY

He brazens it out.

RESUME D'ANGELO

D'Angelo shakes his head.

D'Angelo goes slowly out.

RESUME SIDNEY

He hesitates before turning towards Sally (because he

realizes that this exchange with D'Angelo must have confirmed

Sally in her suspicions).

SALLY

Her face shows that Sidney is right.  Sally is deeply hurt,

disillusioned.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Sidney turns to her, challenging.

Resentfully, Sidney moves about the room.  Sensing the

silent accusation against him, he is aggressive.

Sidney comes to the phone on her desk.  He dials.  Then he

glances swiftly at Sally and, carrying the phone, walks into

the bedroom, dragging the long cord behind him.

INT. BEDROOM

When the phone comes alive, Sidney pushes the bedroom door

shut.  The gesture is as casual as he can contrive to make

it.  Keeping his voice fairly low so that it cannot be heard

in the other room, he says:

He sets the phone down on the bedside table, looks at it

thoughtfully before he goes back to the bedroom door, opens

it and goes back into the office.

INT. OFFICE

Sidney stands on the threshold, studying Sally.  His manner

is now more sympathetic as he asks:

Leaving the bedroom door open, Sidney comes up to her,

watches her shrewdly, cautiously.

Sally is putting paper in the typewriter, trying to hold her

head up.

Sidney comes closer to her.  He puts his hand on the nape of

her neck, carrassing her.  Under his touch, the girl is

unhappy, and yet at the same time, responsive.  Sidney still

has power over her but she is disturbed by feelings of shame.

Feeling her relaxed, Sidney bends and kisses her on the side

of the throat with more than negligence, for something about

her always excites him; his aggression tune in with her

submissiveness.

The phone in the bedroom rings.  Sidney, reacting sharply,

forgets his advances to Sally as he turns towards the bedroom.

He goes into the bedroom, closing the door as he goes.

Sally looks at the closed door.

INT. BEDROOM

Sidney has picked up the phone.

INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - THE STUDY - DAY

Hunsecker wears a dressing gown as he sits at his breakfast

table.  Behind him are the big glass windows to the terrace

overlooking the Manhattan skyline.  The papers are at

Hunsecker's elbow; his manner is crisp and cold:

RESUME SIDNEY'S APARTMENT

Sidney smiles confidently, answers calmly:

RESUME HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE

Hunsecker pauses, eyes full of cold voltage.

He bangs down the phone, tense thought in his manner.

INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT

Sally is busy with her typing again, but in a depressed mood

when Sidney comes out of the bedroom to put the phone down

on her desk again.  He seems satisfied with himself, smug.

Sally watches him for a moment.  Then:

Sidney prepares to leave the apartment.  His tone is full of

confidence, self-assertive.  (For once Sidney is certain

that he is smarter, more cunning than even Hunsecker).

Sidney makes for the door, goes out.

INT. CIGAR STAND - LOBBY

Susan buys paper - DOLLY with her - toward elevator - she

gets in.

INT. HUNSECKER'S LIVING ROOM

J.J. has not moved; he is thoughtful and morose.  Nikko, the

Japanese butler, comes in to remove the breakfast table.

Smiling, Nikko leaves.  Hunsecker picks up a pencil and

makes a note on a pad, about birds no doubt.  Abruptly he

looks up, calling:

She has been trying to pass unnoticed to her room.  She

comes forward to him; her manner is serious and wary.  His

act is one of a tasteful Mammy singer, but he is watchful,

too.

She shakes her head.

He soothes, smiles indulgent, but watchful:

With a paternal gesture of affection, he holds out his arms,

inviting her into his comforting embrace.  Not wanting to,

she walks into his open waiting arms.

Hunsecker considers this gravely, as if it was a new and

troubling thought.

She leaves his arms; he watches keenly.

He goes to her gently; she appraises both him and her

wrenched life with brooding, frightened eyes.

She gets up and walks around in considerable agitation.

She turns to Hunsecker, her manner firmer.

He walks away with a wag of indignation,  but turns, asking:

Susan shakes her head emphatically.

Staring, he pauses; then he deftly changes the subject.

Susan hesitates.  Hunsecker waits for her to continue.  But

she isn't yet sure enough of herself or of the point she

means to make.  She turns away.

Hunsecker strides about, elaborately playing on a note of

disillusion and pain.

He looks at her with pursed lips and, for a change, some

real interest.  Her level, straightforward manner has pinned

him down completely; he shows a slow, charming grin, as he

goes for a private phone book:

He crosses to the white desk phone, delaying dialing for a

moment:

Susan doesn't like this idea, is evasive:

EXT. TV THEATRE - DAY

CAMERA SHOOTS TOWARDS the entrance to the TV theatre.  A

line of people are queuing for Hunsecker's TV Broadcast

which is advertised by large posters beside the entrance.  A

taxi drives up in foreground; Susan Hunsecker gets out.

SIDNEY

Sidney comes up Sixth Avenue towards the theatre.  As he

reaches the corner of the building, he halts, having seen...

SUSAN

Susan is seen in the act of paying the driver.  As the taxi

pulls away, Susan walks CAMERA left.

TV THEATRE

Susan pauses, deciding not to enter the theatre; turning she

looks about her and waits on the sidewalk outside.

SIDNEY

Sidney decides that this is not the moment to approach Susan.

He glances down the sidestreet then moves off in that

direction.

SIDESTREET

Sidney moves down the sidestreet towards a stage entrance,

through which are emerging some TV technicians.  He slips

inside.

INT. TV STATION

Hunsecker is standing at a table, stop watch in hand,

reading aloud from a script which he is rehearsing and

timing.  Beside him sits Mary busy typing more of the

material from Hunsecker's handwritten note.  Mary is calm,

but he is irritable, trying to concentrate despite the

bustle around him.

An old movie star, MILDRED TAM, sits waiting in one of the

canvas-backed chairs supplied for the guests on the show.

BURTON, a manager, also waits, deadpan, at Hunsecker's elbow.

Hunsecker clicks his stop watch as he reads:

He turns in exasperation to Burton.

Burton departs.  Mary whips a second sheet out of the

typewriter, hands it to Hunsecker.  As he accepts it,

Hunsecker looks off towards the auditorium.

SIDNEY

SHOOTING towards the auditorium, from Hunsecker's viewpoint.

Sidney mounts the steps onto the stage.  Seeing that the

columnist is surrounded but knowing that J.J. wants to talk

to him privately, Sidney loiters so that J.J. can join him

as soon as he chooses to.  CAMERA PULLS BACK to include

Hunsecker.  Only momentarily distracted by private

considerations connected with Sidney's arrival, Hunsecker

returns to the business of timing the script.  He clicks the

watch again...

ANOTHER ANGLE

Sidney lingers beside the old movie star who is listening,

rapt, to Hunsecker's words.  Sidney is less impressed with

J.J.'s eloquence.  At the conclusion, Mildred applauds

lightly.  She stands up and moves towards J.J.  J.J. wants

to talk to Sidney but is frustrated by the old movie star.

Under the pretense of studying the typed script, J.J. walks

away across the stage.  Sidney strolls after him.

ANOTHER ANGLE

A TRACKING SHOT.  Sidney comes up beside Hunsecker, falls

into step beside him.  As they cross towards a water cooler

at the back of the stage, they talk in rapid undertone.

A pause.  Hunsecker renumerates.

Hunsecker gives him certain slow begrudging admiration:

Hunsecker permits himself a faint smile.  Burton is

approaching with script in hand.

Sidney smirks.  He turns away and goes off towards the

auditorium in the background.

EXT. TV STATION - DAY

Frank D'Angelo pays a taxi out of which he and Steve have

just emerged.  Frank turns towards the boy, resuming a

conversation as they stroll across the sidewalk towards the

entrance of the theatre.

Steve completes the sentence with a slow shake of the head;

compromise is a gesture which he finds very difficult.

D'ANGELO

D'Angelo studies the boy with a paternal affection.

D'Angelo stops, halted by an expression which he sees in

Steve's face.

STEVE

He is looking through the glass doors of the TV Theatre, no

longer listening to D'Angelo's words; his face has hardened

in anger.

INT. TV THEATRE FOYER

From Steve's viewpoint.  Sidney has come out of the curtained

entrance to the auditorium.  CAMERA PULLS BACK to include

Steve in foreground.  With a movement that suggests his

annoyance at discovering Sidney present, Steve jerks open

the glass door and moves in.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Susan is waiting in the foyer.  She is standing in a position

where she has not been able to see Steve until he enters;

now she moves forward to greet him.  As soon as she is near

him, she speaks in a quiet, urgent manner:

But she, too, is halted as Steve lays a hand on her arm.

Seeing his look over her shoulder, she turns...

SIDNEY

He is already strolling forward to join them.  CAMERA PANS

with him to include Susie, Steve and D'Angelo.

STAGE

Hunsecker comes forward to the front of the stage looking

towards...

STEVE, SUSAN, D'ANGELO AND SIDNEY

In the group that comes down the aisle of the empty theatre.

RESUME HUNSECKER

He studies them, then calls out:

REVERSE ANGLE

Hunsecker back to CAMERA in foreground; he begins to whistle

The Wedding March to the rhythm of Steve and Susan's walk.

STEVE

He breaks the rhythm of his stride, his face rigid.

RESUME HUNSECKER

He descends to meet them; his manner is full of welcome.

REVERSE ANGLE

Susan nervously makes the introduction - Steve is nervous;

D'Angelo hangs behind warily; Sidney is in background.

Steve shakes the hand that the smiling Hunsecker gives.

Hunsecker flicks a look at Sidney.  No one else, warier by

the minute, knows what to say.  Hunsecker purrs onward:

Hunsecker cuts her off with lazy good nature:

Hunsecker crosses toward Sidney.

D'ANGELO, STEVE AND SUSAN

Steve is thrown for a loss momentarily; Frank steps in.

HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

RESUME D'ANGELO, STEVE AND SUSAN

GROUP SHOT

But Steve, on a heated rip, has turned to Hunsecker:

HUNSECKER

STEVE, D'ANGELO AND SUSAN

HUNSECKER

GROUP SHOT

Steve stops dead.  Then, strangely and dangerously, he picks

up Hunsecker's smile.  On each man's face the smile broadens

and grows up into a chuckle from each; but the meanness

still flickers around Hunsecker's mouth.  Steve is out of

the net!

HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

STEVE, D'ANGELO AND SUSAN

HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

Even Hunsecker smiles.  Sidney likes neither the ridicule or

the turn of events.  He moves quickly past CAMERA.

SIDNEY, STEVE, D'ANGELO AND SUSAN

Sidney comes round the row of theatre seats to attack Steve.

HUNSECKER

GROUP SHOT

Playing along nicely, Hunsecker looks at Steve and Frank and

slowly removes his arm from Susan; he pauses before asking

Dallas:

With a roar Hunsecker takes them both out of play; he stands

up.

SIDNEY, STEVE, D'ANGELO

Hunsecker enters from behind CAMERA.

Steve is cornered, the other completely out of play.  He

pauses:

Switching his leonine tail, Hunsecker looks broodingly at

Susie.  Frank says one beseeching word, "Steve...", but no

one hears him.

SUSAN

HUNSECKER

STEVE AND SUSAN

Steve hesitates defensively but can't resist a small smile;

he moves nearer to Susan.

REVERSE ANGLE

Susan in foreground, Steve, Hunsecker and Sidney beyond.

Hunsecker pauses; Sidney throws in a stage whisper:

Steve walks to Susie, trying to lift her with his hopes and

air of gentle urging and support.

SUSAN

She stares at the floor.

RESUME REVERSE ANGLE

Hunsecker doesn't like the drift of things; his mouth

tightens and he speaks to Susan with veiled warning:

SUSAN

Suddenly Susan lets loose, with restrained nervous energy;

she is near to tears.

HUNSECKER

He interjects.

RESUME SUSAN

Restraining tears, she runs up the steps to the stage.

STEVE, HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

Steve looks after her.  Sidney watches intently.  Hunsecker's

smile is frostily taunting:

Steve turns a blank-eyed stare at him.  Tension gone, a slow

mumbling fatigue has set in.  Hunsecker plays it light:

He turns and stares away, but Steve stops him with---

STAGE

Hunsecker comes up the steps from the auditorium, Sidney

following closely behind.  In background, beyond, Steve and

D'Angelo are walking up the aisle to the exit.  CAMERA

TRACKS CLOSE on Sidney and Hunsecker.  Hunsecker's face is

rigid.  Sidney, close at his elbow, whispers:

Sidney is full of confidence.  But Hunsecker barely hears

him (Hunsecker has been hurt very deeply by the boy's

attack; in particular, by the appalling fear that what Steve

has said is the kind of thing which Susan may also secretly

believe.)

ANOTHER ANGLE

Susan is still standing in the wings.  Mary is with her,

obviously sympathetic.  The girl is drying her eyes with

Kleenex, and Mary glances at her employer with a look of

reproach.  Hunsecker walks round the table, obviously trying

to approach Susan; seeing this, Susan turns away and moves

further from him.  Hunsecker stops.

HUNSECKER

There is some emotion in his face as he looks towards the

girl.  More gently, he moves forward past CAMERA...

SUSAN

Sensing the approach of Hunsecker behind her, she moves away

again; she is still crying, but is trying to recover.

Presently Hunsecker approaches her again.  He speaks very

gently, soothingly, comforting...

Hunsecker again tries to come nearer to her.

Ignoring the shake of her head, he calls to Sidney.

HUNSECKER

Again we see some emotion in his face as he studies the girl.

His eyes flick towards the stage behind him where Sidney

stands watching.  He moves gently forward and then speaks in

a quiet voice which reveals how desperately he needs her

reassurance:

SUSAN

After a pause, she turns towards him; she looks him straight

in the face.

RESUME HUNSECKER

He seems to take this as a gesture of forgiveness from her.

Now he touches her.  His need for her is apparent; he tries

to reach her, tries to find an excuse to embrace her.  She

submits to this very passively.

SUSAN

A VERY CLOSE SHOT.  We see the effort with which she is

controlling herself.

RESUME TWO SHOT

Satisfied with this crumb of affection from his sister,

Hunsecker lets her go.  Susan moves away, still avoiding his

eyes.  Then she goes off towards the steps down into the

auditorium.  Sidney looks at Hunsecker, then after Susan and

follows her.

RESUME HUNSECKER

He goes back to Mary and the script.  He instructs her:

Poring over the typewritten pages, he senses Mary's eyes on

him.  He speaks to her quietly without raising his head and

there is still an undertone of feeling in his voice:

Mary says nothing.  Hunsecker gathers his papers and with a

visible effort to resume his public personality turns

towards the machinery of the television broadcast in

background.

INT. TV THEATRE FOYER

Susan crosses towards the doors out onto the street.  Sidney

comes behind her, watchful as he overtakes her near the

doors.  He goes past her to open the door for her.

Susan stops dead.

She goes out into the street.  Beyond, we see a crushing cab.

Hesitating, Sidney adds:

But Susan has already moved out of shot, hurrying across the

sidewalk to hail the taxi.

RESUME SIDNEY

Uncertain what to do, whether to follow her or not, he moves

after her.

SUSAN

She has already opened the door of the taxi.  She turns to

see Sidney come up behind her.  As he enters SHOT, she

repeats:

She starts to get into the cab...

SIDNEY

Alert, he moves to detain her (anxious to know exactly the

extent of her suspicion.)

ANOTHER ANGLE

As Sidney steps up, he grasps at the door of the taxi,

trying to hold it open, but Susan pulls it shut, catching

his fingers in the door.  Sidney steps back in pain...

TAXI

It drives off down Sixth Avenue.

SIDNEY

Nursing the injury to his hand, he looks after the

disappearing taxi.  As he recovers from the pain, his

expression slowly changes to one of thoughtful appraisal.

(Susan's suspicions maybe of less importance than some other

considerations.)

INT. TWENTY ONE CLUB WASHROOM - NIGHT

Hunsecker and Sidney are washing in adjoining basins.  Coat

off, the former is in one of his punitive moods of silence.

Sidney, despite his throbbing, bandaged finger, is feeling

satisfied and self-confident.  He hums quietly.  Hunsecker

throws him annoyed side-glances, but Sidney refuses to

"catch on".  The following dialogue is spaced between the

washing, the drying and hair-combing.

Sidney no longer hums; after a moment, he answers.

Sidney's cheerfulness annoys Hunsecker.

Hunsecker moves out of shot.

Hearing the sound of the door, Sidney turns sharply.  CAMERA

MOVES to discover that Hunsecker has gone out.  Sidney,

quickly, finishing the brushing of his hair, follows...

INT. DINING ROOM - "21" CLUB

Two waiters are fussing over Hunsecker's table at which

places are already set for Sidney and Hunsecker.  Matre d'

hands him an envelope as he passes.

When the columnist comes up to the table, the waiters

quickly pull out the table for him.  Sidney comes to join

him; Sidney gets some attention, but considerably less.

CAMERA MOVES CLOSER.

A waiter shifts the position of the salad dish at Hunsecker's

elbow.

The waiter retreats rapidly.

Delicately salting his oysters, Hunsecker looks obliquely at

Sidney.

Hunsecker, with a casual gesture, tugs lightly at the end of

Sidney's tie.

Hunsecker's gesture is playful, but it inflicts great injury

to Sidney's dignity; Sidney cannot bear to be touched; he

finds this liberty on J.J.'s part as intolerable as anything

he has experienced, and only with great difficulty controls

himself.  The SHOT FAVORS Sidney.

SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER

Hunsecker continues:

HUNSECKER

From Sidney's viewpoint.  Without turning, Hunsecker

interrupts:

RESUME SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER

Sidney senses a warning in Hunsecker's manner.  He protests:

HUNSECKER

From Sidney's viewpoint.  Pausing during the process of

eating, Hunsecker reaches into an inside pocket.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Sidney as Hunsecker tosses in

front of him an envelope.  Sidney opens it, extracts two

steamship tickets.

Sidney slowly pushes the envelope back to Hunsecker, who

leaves it lying on the table before him.

SIDNEY

He has an instinct to laugh; but something tells him not to.

HUNSECKER

As Sidney makes no response, Hunsecker slowly, carefully

continues in a voice which is dangerously soft:

SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER

SHOOTING ACROSS Hunsecker onto Sidney.  Sidney puts down his

fork.  He sees now that the issue is serious and must be

faced.

HUNSECKER

He wants no advice from Sidney.  He interrupts with quiet

savagery.

SIDNEY AND HUNSECKER

SHOOTING ACROSS Hunsecker onto Sidney.  Sidney feels sick.

CAMERA MOVES CLOSER as Sidney picks scratch pad up.  We can

read two words: "Get Kello".

HUNSECKER

Hunsecker finishes eating.  During the ensuing speech, which

he begins quietly and sensibly, Hunsecker's venomous feelings

are unexpectedly betrayed.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Sidney.  Hunsecker manages to

control himself; he reaches with nervous fingers toward his

scribbling pad.

SIDNEY

Sidney's face has tightened.  He has begun now to realize

the extent of this man's megalomania.  After a moment he

says:

HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

SHOOTING ACROSS Sidney onto Hunsecker.

SIDNEY

Sidney feels the chill of despair upon him.

HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

SHOOTING ACROSS Hunsecker onto Sidney.  A waiter has come to

serve the next course.  Hunsecker appears relaxed, but

Sidney is sightlessly staring at the piece of paper in his

hand.  He speaks with a quaver in his voice, for he has

worked hard to make a life which is now ready to relinquish:

Sidney begins to get up from the table.

Hunsecker looks up at Sidney.

HUNSECKER

From Sidney's viewpoint.

SIDNEY

From Hunsecker's viewpoint.

He leans over Hunsecker and the CAMERA PULLS BACK to include

Hunsecker in f.g.

SIDNEY

A CLOSE UP.  He knows the truth of what is said.  But he

takes refuge in quiet retaliation:

HUNSECKER

Hunsecker is prepared to give it out, but not take it.

SIDNEY

He looks down on Hunsecker, leans over the table.

CAMERA has PULLED BACK to include Hunsecker, whose attention

has returned to his food.

But as he speaks the last words, Sidney's voice falters

because he has glanced down at the table...

SIDNEY

We see that an idea has entered his head - an idea that

takes the wind out of his indignation.  His eyes lift

rapidly to Hunsecker's face.

RESUME SIDNEY

He is quite speechless.  Over scene Hunsecker's voice:

HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

CAMERA SHOOTS across Sidney again onto Hunsecker.  Hunsecker

leans back, looks at Sidney.

Seeing that Sidney has accepted the proposition, he smiles.

In a pleasantly affable way, he leans across the table to

tap the hand with which Sidney is leaning on the table.

Helplessly, Sidney unclenches a fist and reveals the slip of

paper which he had meant to keep.  Hunsecker takes it.  With

his eyes on Sidney, he slowly tears it up...

CIGAR STAND AND PHONE BOOTH - EVENING

D'Angelo is buying a cigar at the counter.  He turns as

Steve opens the door of one of the booths and comes out.

Steve is in a gloomy, irksome mood; D'Angelo is sympathetic

and fatherly.

CAMERA TRACKS with them as they come out into the hallway.

They move towards the side entrance, away from the elevators.

The boy shrugs impatiently.

Some passersby come down the hall and enter a waiting

elevator, barely glancing at D'Angelo and the boy.  D'Angelo

feels uneasy.

D'ANGELO

He addresses Steve soberly.

RESUME STEVE AND D'ANGELO

Steve is silent.  He hears the sound of the elevator door

opening and turns.

Susan comes out of the elevator, the one farthest from them,

and looks around.

D'Angelo acknowledges her greeting, touches his hat and

retires tactfully.  Susan faces Steve.  It's an awkward

meeting.  Each does not know where the other stands.  She

has thrown her fur coat about her shoulders like a cloak; it

will keep slipping off.  He is faintly embittered, a little

hurt and baffled, but he is sympathetic; he is involved and

concerned.

MED. CLOSE TWO SHOT OVER SHOULDER - SUSAN TO STEVE

REVERSE ANGLE

Susan nods in the direction of the door into the little cafe.

As he walks with her towards the cafe:

INT. CAFE

As they enter the cafe, the Counterman looks up from counting

the day's take at the far end.

The Counterman goes to the urn for the coffee.

SUSAN AND STEVE

A closer angle.  They talk in quiet undertones.  Steve waits

for her to speak first; she starts slowly, hesitantly, with

difficulty:

STEVE

SUSAN

This accusation is made lightly, in passing.  But Susan

reacts to it, trying to interject:

SUSAN

After a pause, she says:

SUSAN AND STEVE

Steve flares up.

Susan, pathetically despairing, fingers the handle of her

coffee cup, which she has not touched.  The coat slips from

her shoulders...

ANOTHER ANGLE

Steve stoops to pick it up, replaces it on her shoulders.

Susan turns to him.  She is deflated, lacking all will power.

STEVE

He reacts vigorously, protesting:

SUSAN

A despairing cry:

SUSAN AND STEVE

It takes her a moment to recover.  When she does so, she

gets up, leaving the counter.

She moves towards the exit into the hallway; he follows.

HALLWAY

D'Angelo is waiting for them.  Silently they come up to join

him, very depressed.  Susan looks towards D'Angelo, speaks a

little pathetically:

He walks a little way down the corridor, again leaving them

alone.

SUSAN AND STEVE

She smiles at him, trying to smile, trying to make a joke.

Steve steps to her quickly, kisses her.  Then he turns and

swiftly walks off down the corridor without a backward

glance.  He goes past D'Angelo, who walks quietly after him

towards the exit in background.

SUSAN

She remains just in the attitude in which he left her.

EXT. BRILL BUILDING - NIGHT

Steve comes out of the door, pauses without looking back.

D'Angelo comes up behind him.

D'Angelo looks discreetly over his shoulder.

SUSAN

From D'Angelo's point of view.  She is still standing where

Steve left her.

RESUME STEVE AND D'ANGELO

D'Angelo turns back to Steve.

Steve, still without looking back, walks up the street;

CAMERA TRACKING WITH THEM.

Steve, his manner full of pain, stops.

D'Angelo takes him firmly by the arm.

Steve looks at him, knowing that he can never shake off the

devoted Frank; he shrugs.  They walk past CAMERA.

INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

The heavy brass doors of the elevator slide open and the

Elevator Man pulls open the grille.  Susan, still in the

mood in which Steve left her, stands in the elevator for a

moment before she realizes that she has reached the top

floor.  As she walks out, the Elevator Man looks at her

anxiously.  CAMERA PANS with Susan towards the door to the

apartment.  Susan fumbles for her key.

INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE

The apartment is dark as Susan enters.  She does not switch

on the lights.  She walks through the shadows of the big

room, which has a grim and menacing atmosphere.  She kicks

off her shoes and, hugging the coat about her for warmth

walks to the glass windows of the terrace.  After a moment

she opens them and steps out.

EXT. TERRACE - NIGHT

Susan walks across the terrace.  At this height the wind is

very strong.  CAMERA TRACKS with the girl, emphasizing the

dizzying panorama of New York at night.  The girl's manner

is strange; she moves as if under compulsion, a sleepwalker.

When she reaches the stone parapet, she leans against it

with her body slumped, still hugging the fur coat as if it

were some protection against her misery.

EXT. FROM THE TERRACE - NIGHT

Vertically downward.  From Susan's point of view.  The stone

sidewalks of Broadway are a terrifying distance below.

SUSAN

An angle, shooting sharply upwards against the night sky.

Wind blows the girl's hair, as she looks fixedly downwards.

Her face is blank, expressionless. (For a moment we may fear

for her, afraid that she may have suicide in mind.) But

presently she lifts her head looking towards the horizon...

EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

CAMERA SHOOTS PAST the entrance to Robard's Club, framing

the outline of the bridge in sky in background.  From inside

comes the sound of music -- the Quintet.

The taxi drives up; Sidney gets out; he glances at his

wristwatch, looks around and then makes his way into the club.

INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

Steve Dallas' Quintet on the stand.  CAMERA FRAMES the group

in foreground, SHOOTING towards the entrance way.

INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

Sidney has come in through the entrance.  He is taking off

his overcoat.  He moves forward past the hat check room on

the left, approaching the recess in which several music

cases are stacked beside a coat rack on which the musicians'

overcoats are hung.

DETAIL

As he hangs up his coat, Sidney identifies the other coat, a

black and white check raglan which he (and we) saw Steve

wearing when he visited Hunsecker at the TV Studio.

SIDNEY

A CLOSE SHOT.  The coat appears to have some significance

for him; Sidney is under tension.

A waiter, carrying a carton of beer cans, comes out of the

doorway just behind Sidney, moving between him and the

overcoat.  Thus interrupted, Sidney turns away.

INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

Robard is standing at the bar, surrounded by a group of his

cronies.  Drink is flowing and there is a sentimental mood

of celebration.

As Sidney arrives at the bar, ordering a drink, FRANK

D'ANGELO is seen coming from the interior of the club where

Dallas and the Quintet can be seen playing; D'Angelo accosts

Robard:

REVERSE ANGLE

CAMERA shoots past D'Angelo and Robard in f.g. towards

Sidney, who overhears:

In b.g., Sidney sets down his drink, reacting to this

information.  Robard clamps D'Angelo on the shoulder,

reassuring him with warm emphasis:

SIDNEY

Sidney, thinking rapidly, leaves the bar, moving

unobtrusively but purposefully towards a telephone booth.

He enters and closes the door.

PHONE BOOTH

A CLOSER ANGLE.  Shooting through the glass panel we see

Sidney dialing.  His manner is urgent.

EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

A long shot of the club exterior.  A different musical

number is now being played in the interior. (GOODBYE BABY).

A black car comes swiftly under the bridge, turns into the

little square opposite the club, braking sharply.

CLOSER ANGLE

As the car comes to a stop, CAMERA shoots across the hood

onto the windshield where we see the insignia: POLICE.

The occupants of the car are not visible.

INT/EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB

Sidney lingers near the doorway of the club.  He is looking

across the square towards the car which can be seen in b.g.

Now he turns and walks towards the coat rack, CAMERA tracking

with him.  He takes his own coat and, as he thrusts his arm

into the sleeve, contrives neatly to slip some unseen object

into the pocket of Steve's overcoat; CAMERA notes the

gesture, but only very briefly.  Overscene a voice addresses

Sidney:

SIDNEY

A CLOSE UP.  As he turns in swift apprehension, we note the

moment of panic in his face.

REVERSE ANGLE

CAMERA shoots past Sidney in foreground towards D'Angelo who

advances on Sidney.  D'Angelo's manner is unfriendly; for an

instant we feel, like Sidney, that D'Angelo may have seen

Sidney tampering with Steve's coat, but then we are reassured

as D'Angelo, deliberately using Sidney's surname, says:

REVERSE ANGLE

Shooting across D'Angelo onto Sidney, who now relaxes, his

fears ungrounded.

SIDNEY

As D'Angelo moves away again Sidney looks after him.  Once

more his face goes tense. (He asks himself, does this

development - which he himself anticipated - change the

situation?) He turns away, moving out of shot.

ANOTHER ANGLE

CAMERA moves with Sidney as he walks towards the doorway.

There he hesitates again; he looks back into the club.

DALLAS

From Sidney's viewpoint.  A LONG SHOT of Steve on the

bandstand.  CAMERA PANS deliberately towards the coatrack in

f.g.  A group of newly arrived musicians walk into the shot,

setting down their instrument cases and starting to hang up

their coats. (Clearly, Sidney could not now return to the

coat rack - even if he decided that he did want to undo his

handiwork.)

RESUME SIDNEY

CAMERA, shooting out across the square, frames Sidney in f.g.

Facing the inevitable, Sidney turns away, walks across the

sidewalk.  On the other side of the square the headlamps of

the car blink twice.  Sidney walks towards it.

POLICE CAR

A big man gets out of the seat next to the driver.  As he

comes round the hood of the car, the headlamps of a passing

truck illuminate him, identifying HARRY KELLO.  CAMERA PANS

as he walks to meet Sidney.

CLOSER ANGLE

Kello pauses as Sidney comes up to him, asks affably:

They wait for a moment, listening to the sound of the music

in the distance.  It is a blues number (GOODBYE BABY) Kello

hums nonchalantly; Sidney glances at him with irritation,

finding something gruesome in his relaxed manner.

INT. POLICE CAR

There are two plainclothes policemen inside, one at the

wheel, the other in the back seat.  The latter leans forward

to ask the former:

Murph's tone shows obvious repugnance.  The 1st Policeman

broods for a moment; he adds in a quiet, but viciously

resentful manner:

RESUME KELLO AND SIDNEY

Sidney, increasingly uncomfortable, turns to Kello.

To Kello this is a great joke.  He laughs, enjoying Sidney's

uneasiness.  He begins to "cat and mouse" Sidney.

Sidney, annoyed at this sarcasm, moves past Kello, not

deigning to respond.  As he goes by, Kello grasps him

forcibly by the arm.

CAMERA HAS PANNED to SHOOT towards the car out of which

emerges a second detective.

Kello, holding Sidney, turns towards the second detective in

background.

Sidney jerks his arm away, rapidly retreats a few yards, a

safe distance from Kello.  CAMERA PANS with him to the

bottom of the steps.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Sidney in foreground, Kello and Murph beyond.  Kello laughs;

but obviously he would like to be nearer to Sidney.  Perhaps

to detain Sidney, Kello drawls:

KELLO

He moves forward a little.

SIDNEY

He turns swiftly and goes up the stairs out of Kello's reach.

ANOTHER ANGLE

From half-way up the stairs.  Sidney comes up the steps two

at a time.  Kello and Murphy are seen beyond.

FROM THE BRIDGE

Sidney reaches the top.  He comes along the pedestrian walk

up to CAMERA, slowing down he turns across the rail and

looks down towards the square.  CAMERA MOVES to take in the

scene in WIDE ANGLE: Sidney in foreground, the police car

and detectives below, the entrance to Robard's across the

square.  Sidney waits.  In the distance we can hear the

music of Dallas' last number coming to an end.

INT. ROBARD'S CLUB

The last bars of the number.  Enthusiastic applause.

STEVE

He responds to the ovation, nicely but a little wearily.  He

gets down off the stand.  There is too much noise to hear

his parting words to his fellow musicians, but it is clear

that he is urging them to stay without him.  He walks off

towards the entrance to the club.

D'ANGELO

D'Angelo leaves the bar, in search of Steve.  He sees...

INT/EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

Steve is putting his guitar away in the case, collecting his

overcoat.  In this gesture he is arrested by the sound of

D'Angelo's voice over scene.

Steve, mildly startled, looks up.

REVERSE ANGLE

Shooting into the club.  D'Angelo comes forward from the bar.

He is a little drunk, a little emotional.  He waddles toward

Steve, then takes the white carnation out of his buttonhole

and puts it in the buttonhole of Steve's coat, saying:

RESUME ROBARD'S CLUB

Steve is touched.

He picks up his guitar case and makes for the door.  D'Angelo

goes a few paces with him, CAMERA TRACKING.  Then it moves

past D'Angelo, following Steve out onto the sidewalk, where

he stands under the light of the club framed against the

dark background of the square.

FROM THE BRIDGE

CAMERA PANS from the small figure of Steve to include Sidney

big in foreground.  Below him Kello and Murph turn towards

the club.

KELLO

CLOSER ANGLE downward from Sidney's viewpoint.  Kello turns

deliberately to look at the bridge above.

RESUME BRIDGE

Sidney sees Kello's look; he nods deliberately.  Below him

we see Kello and Murphy move swiftly to get into the car.

Sidney, as if shrinking from a sight from which he doesn't

wish to witness, draws back from the balustrade.  He turns

and begins to walk towards CAMERA.

POLICE CAR

A LOW ANGLE SHOOTING upwards at the car, the stairs to the

bridge in background.  As the doors of the car slam, it

starts to move forward and, abruptly, its headlamps are

switched on, glaring into the lens.

EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

Steve, concerned only with his only melancholy thoughts,

walks down the sidewalk under the bridge.  The car headlamps

illuminate him in their glare as they move across him.

Steve, without undue, interest, glances back but continues

on his way.

CAMERA SHOOTS eastward towards the silhouette of the bridge.

The Police Car turns as it comes out of the square under the

bridge towards CAMERA.  It moves slowly; again its headlamps

flare into the lens.  CAMERA PULLING BACK includes Steve in

foreground.  Behind him the Police Car slows down at the

curb; it barely stops as Kello slips out of the off-side

door; then the car moves forward along the curb leaving him

behind Steve.  As the car goes out of picture past CAMERA,

Kello strolls across the sidewalk, following Steve.  Steve,

looking past CAMERA, notices...

REVERSE ANGLE

CAMERA SHOOTS toward 2nd Avenue.  The Police Car slows down

again at the curb and Murph gets out of it, turning to face

Steve.

RESUME

Steve, seeing the man ahead of him, notes something slightly

menacing in his manner and slows down in his walk.  Then,

instinctively, he realizes that there is a second man behind

him, turns to look at Kello.  Kello approaches.

CAMERA MOVES CLOSER and CLOSER on Steve.  In his face we see

a growing sense of something wrong...

INT. ROBARD'S CLUB

A JUMP CUT.  Loud noise, Chico Hamilton on the drums...

INT. BAR

Another jump cut in the sound track.  Silence.  It is an

empty saloon, occupied only by a solitary drinker at one end

of the long bar, nursing a beer, and by the bartender who is

making out a dope sheet.  Sidney enters, strides to the bar

and throws down a jangling half dollar.

While the change is made, Sidney stands with cocked head,

listening in reality or imagination to what is happening

down the street.  As the barman supplies the change, Sidney

goes to the juke box and loads it with nickels saying over

his shoulder:

Sidney puts both hands on the juke box as if leaning on it.

With a click, drop and whirl, the music box comes to life;

music blares out.  Pausing a moment, Sidney turns back

toward the bar.

SIDNEY

He reaches for his drink, downs it.  He is shivering.

INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

Once more, an abrupt sound transition: the jam session at

full blast.  CAMERA FRAMES the musicians in foreground, but

moves away from them towards the entrance in background.

Near the doorway there is some activity; an attendant

beckons to Robard who is drinking with D'Angelo.  Robard

moves toward the entrance.

INT/EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHT

CAMERA STARTS on D'Angelo at the bar.  He looks off after

Robard.  There is little concern in his face, but as he

watches, curiosity grows.  He strolls out after the

proprietor.  CAMERA TRACKS with him as D'Angelo comes to

join the little mob of two or three people on the sidewalk.

PANNING, THE CAMERA now SHOOTS TOWARDS 2nd Avenue.  Beyond

the bridge we can see the Police Car.  Kello and Murphy are

beside one of the open doors (into which Steve has been

carried). Murphy turns back, walks a few paces across the

sidewalk and picks up Steve's music case, which he carries

back to the Squad Car.  He gets in and the car drives off.

REVERSE ANGLE

D'Angelo's face shows a bewildered astonishment and dismay

as he turns back to the couple of people who are talking to

Robard.  D'Angelo is a little befuddled with drink.  He

pushes towards Robard.

D'ANGELO

He turns to look back towards the direction in which the

Police Car has departed.  He seems unable to comprehend what

he has heard; but a slow and terrible fear is dawning on

him...

Susan opens the door to discover Frank D'Angelo in lobby.

He speaks at once:

D'Angelo has no wish to become involved with the girl; he

doesn't reply.

D'Angelo backs away, shaking his head.

He turns back to the elevator.  Susan closes the door, but

slowly; she is watching D'Angelo.  CAMERA MOVES WITH D'Angelo

as he goes to the bell of the elevator and rings it.  He

remains in this position, waiting for the elevator, but now

(believing himself to be alone) he leans his head against

the wall and begins to weep, quietly.  Surprisingly, Susan

is abruptly at his elbow, she seizes him forcibly by the

arm, demanding:

D'Angelo, with his face contorted in grief and bitterness,

can no longer refuse to answer her.

Susan is becoming hysterical.

D'Angelo recovers his self control.  There is force and

authority in his voice as he insists:

Susan is sobered by his seriousness.

INT. HALLWAY - HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE

The elevator door opens and Sidney steps out: He crosses to

the door of the apartment, pushes the button.  The bell is

heard ringing inside.  While he waits, Sidney produces a

handkerchief, dabs his face, straightens his tie; clearly he

is trying to sober up.  He goes to the bell push to ring

again.  Now he notices something that had escaped him

before: the door is not quite shut.  He pushes it open.

INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE

From inside.  Sidney hesitates, enters tentatively.

LONGER ANGLE

The apartment appears empty.  Only one light is lit; the

place is eerie.

RESUME SIDNEY

Sidney closes the door, goes into the main living room,

CAMERA pans with him.  Something chills him, he calls

softly, "J.J.?"

ANOTHER ANGLE

Sidney walks towards the study, there is nobody there either.

He goes back towards the stairs to the upper floor; in doing

so he repasses the door of Susan's bedroom, sees that it is

half open, goes to look in.

INT. BEDROOM

From Sidney's viewpoint.  The bed has been slept in but is

unoccupied.  The room is empty.

On the seat at the foot of the bed is a drawer that has been

pulled out of the wardrobe; it contains a collection of

miscellaneous objects, a snapshot album, letters, souvenirs,

disarranged as if someone had been looking at them.

SIDNEY

He looks at the empty room, disturbed.

RESUME BEDROOM

The curtains of the window onto the terrace are blowing: the

window is open.  Sidney walks into shot form behind CAMERA.

He calls:

Susan steps into the room from the terrace, confronting

Sidney.  She is dressed, wearing the fur coat over a skirt

and blouse.  Her manner is very strange; the effect of the

drugs, no doubt.

RESUME SIDNEY

Sidney is very uncomfortable in her presence; Susan is the

last person he wants to have conversation with.

He retreats across the threshold of the bedroom, into the

outer room.

RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEY

She walks forwards.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Sidney stands back to let her pass.

Susan comes out of the bedroom, walks past CAMERA.

He studies the girl, says nothing.

LONGER ANGLE

She walks listlessly across the room, moving like a

somnambulist.

RESUME SIDNEY

He watches her cautiously, not sure of how to deal with her.

SUSAN

A CLOSE UP.  Susan's expression is blank; her eyes are

unseeing.

There is a tone of great despair in her voice.  Presently,

she recovers, CAMERA eases back to include Sidney beyond.

She glances at him.

RESUME SIDNEY

Sidney looks at her, tensely.  Her voice is so calm, so

certain that Sidney finds it difficult to play-act innocence.

He protests a little too loudly:

RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEY

Susan interrupts, with a simplicity which is damaging.

LONGER ANGLE

Sidney decides that it is wiser not to argue.  He assumes a

tolerant sympathy.  He moves towards her.

Now she turns to him.

She walks past him, still aimlessly wandering about the

room; then she turns back, indicates herself.

She studies Sidney.

REVERSE ANGLE

Shaken, Sidney decides to ridicule the implied threat.

He walks past CAMERA.

RESUME SUSAN

Sidney walks into shot, going past her on his way to the door.

Susan, in foreground, remains quite still, says nothing.  In

background, Sidney slows down, his confidence failing him;

he looks back at her.

SIDNEY

He can't go.  Probably, she's bluffing.  But he can't be

certain.  He is suddenly angry.

RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEY

He strides back towards her.

She moves past him.  He grips her, turning her around.

CAMERA HOLDS Sidney and Susan in foreground.  But it is now

shooting towards the door of the apartment.  A PANNING

movement has included a figure at the other end of the big

room...

HUNSECKER

He is taking off his overcoat near the door of the apartment.

We don't know how long he has been there, how much he has

overheard.  Without appearing to be consciously spying,

Hunsecker is listening to Sidney's voice over scene.

CAMERA PANS round with Hunsecker who strolls across the

room, making his presence known.  Sidney breaks off, drops

his hands, releasing the girl.  Susan turns towards Hunsecker.

Hunsecker lays his briefcase and papers on the table.  He

addresses Susan without looking at her.

Susan makes no move.  Hunsecker glances at her, sees Sidney

but treats Sidney as if he were invisible.

Susan walks towards Hunsecker.

Sidney moves forward also.

Hunsecker still ignores his existence, he walks past Susan

carrying his papers to the desk.  Susan turns, watching him.

Hunsecker studies the item in the paper.

SUSAN

She is staring at her brother.  Suddenly, she is unable to

suffer his authoritative air; she goes to him; he ignores

her...

HUNSECKER AND SUSAN

Childishly, she snatches the paper from his hand, throws it

to the floor.  He looks at her.  Patiently, as with a

hysterical infant, he stoops, recovers the paper.

SUSAN

Her head comes up sharply at the insult.

HUNSECKER AND SUSAN AND SIDNEY

Hunsecker glances at Sidney, clearly reminding them of the

compromising situation in which they were found.  Sidney

moves to answer.

Hunsecker's rising tide of brutality is having some effect

on Susan, and Sidney, fearing for her, tries to intervene.

Susan is staring sightlessly at the floor near Hunsecker's

feet.  After a moment she turns and moves to the door of her

bedroom; her walk is a little unsteady; she goes inside,

closes the door in Hunsecker's face.

INT. BEDROOM

With the door closed, she leans against it as if afraid of

falling.  She gropes for the door handle, finds the key and

turns it.

INT. LIVING ROOM - HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

Hunsecker is studying the closed door.

SIDNEY

Sidney seems not to hear this remark.  He is concentrated on

the door; he moves hesitantly towards it, apprehensive.

CAMERA includes Hunsecker in background.

Much more concerned with his anxiety for Susan, Sidney

interrupts.

Sidney's conviction is impressive.  But Hunsecker is

unwilling to admit the danger, he continues.

Seeing that Hunsecker is not taking his advice, Sidney

strides swiftly to the door of Susan's bedroom.  He knocks

on it.

INT. BEDROOM

SHOOTING TOWARDS the door.  Susan is sitting on the bed in

foreground.  In a methodical, hypnotic way, she is destroying

the contents of the drawer, tearing letters into small

fragments.  Sidney's voice is heard outside: "Susie!" Susan

appears not to hear it; CAMERA TRACKS closer to her.

Sidney's voice is heard again, louder: "Susie!" Susan turns

sharply towards the door.

SUSAN

A CLOSE UP.  Susan rises to her feet, staring at the door.

She begins to back away from it.

RESUME REVERSE ANGLE

CAMERA PULLS BACK as Susan glances down at the record player

beside her.  She turns the knob.  We hear the clatter of a

record dropping and music begins.  The tune is "The Sage."

INT. LIVING ROOM

CLOSE SHOT of Sidney.  He hears the music starting.

HUNSECKER

Hunsecker has come forward.  But now, as he listens to the

gramaphone record playing in the bedroom, Hunsecker relaxes,

assuming that this is a sign that Sidney's suspicions are

unfounded.

CAMERA TRACKS to include Sidney.  He does not share

Hunsecker's confidence; he knocks again, calling:

CAMERA TRACKS closer to Sidney.  As he tries the doorknob,

CAMERA TILTS DOWN.  Sidney's hand tries the doorknob, finds

it locked, shakes it forcefully.

DETAIL

From inside the bedroom.  We see the doorknob rattled.

RESUME SUSAN

A CLOSE UP.  She realizes that Sidney means to insist.  She

turns away towards the blowing curtains in background.

RESUME LIVING ROOM

A DETAIL SHOT.  Sidney's hand is still shaking the doorknob.

He releases it.  CAMERA PULLS BACK to a TWO SHOT of Sidney

and Hunsecker as Sidney retreats from the door in

apprehension.  Now Hunsecker has begun to share Sidney's

anxiety.  He moves to the door, knocks and then pounds on it.

SUSAN

A CLOSE UP.  She comes forward past the blowing curtains.

The wind whips at her hair.  Over scene we hear the rumble

of the traffic on Broadway far below.

RESUME HUNSECKER

He is pounding on the door again.  CAMERA makes a quick pan

to Sidney who, in a split second, realizes that Susan may

have gone out on the balcony.  He turns, dashes towards the

study to look out on the terrace.

RESUME SUSAN

She has now started to climb onto the parapet.  Sidney leaps

into shot, dragging her bodily off the parapet and out of

shot.  We hear Susan cry out, a hysterical gasp.  CAMERA,

looking through the windows of Susan's bedroom, sees the

door fly open as Hunsecker bursts into the room.  He looks

swiftly around, advances towards the open window.

Exasperated by the sound of the gramaphone, he switches it

off; he steps out onto the terrace.  CAMERA PANS with him as

he turns to look back into the study where Susan's inanimate

figure is sprawled on the floor, half across the low

upholstered footstool.  Sidney, white and shaking, is

standing over her.

REVERSE ANGLE

CAMERA at floor level.  Susan is framed in foreground.  The

lower half of Sidney can be seen beside her.  Hunsecker is

on the terrace in background.  Shocked, he moves quickly

into the room.

HUNSECKER

A CLOSE UP.  He looks down at his sister.  He is badly

shaken.  The sharp bite of terror produces a reaction of

something akin to anger.  But he swiftly controls it.  He

moves past CAMERA.

REVERSE ANGLE

Hunsecker stoops into shot.  Tenderly, he lifts the girl's

body to get it into the arm chair.  Susan is quite lifeless,

limp with the dead weight of a creature that has lost any

instinct for self-preservation.  But as she feels her

brother's arms, and as she recognizes who it is, she breaks

out in hysteria.

But Susan strikes at him, a vicious gesture of revulsion.

Hunsecker lets her go.  She falls into the arm chair, her

face hidden from him; she begins to sob.

Hunsecker would like to comfort her, but he dare not touch

her again for fear of inviting another rebuff.  He is deeply

hurt and wounded.  Embarrassed that Sidney should watch this

moment, Hunsecker rises.  To cover his emotion, he walks to

the tray of drinks in background; he pours a brandy and

comes back.  Stooping, he offers it to Susan.  Her only

reaction is again to wrench herself away from him, facing

the opposite direction.

Hunsecker sets down the drink, stands up.

Over scene the telephone rings.  It is ignored.  While

Hunsecker looks down at the girl, helplessly, the telephone

continues to ring.

SUSAN

A CLOSE UP.  It is she who first becomes aware of the

telephone.  Her weeping has stopped now.  Slowly, she raises

her head.  CAMERA EASES BACK to include Sidney beyond her;

he notes this movement, seeing in it a revival of the girl's

will to live; he is moved.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The telephone is framed in foreground, Susan beyond.  It

continues to ring.  As Hunsecker crosses to his desk to pick

up the instrument, CAMERA PULLS BACK.  Hunsecker speaks:

RESUME SUSAN

A CLOSE SHOT.  She raises her head higher, still weakly.  We

see in her face a mixture of terror and hope.

REVERSE ANGLE

Hunsecker comes forward to set down the telephone in front

of her, on the footstool.  Hunsecker and Sidney watch.  She

reaches a hand, which is still trembling, picks up the

receiver.  Her voice as she speaks to the instrument is

barely audible.

Presently, she hangs up.  When she becomes aware that

Hunsecker and Sidney are waiting for an explanation, she

tells them:

HUNSECKER

Hunsecker nods.  He already knows this.  Then:

SUSAN

She does not look at him, she lowers her eyes but answers

with a nod.  And then, more positively:

RESUME HUNSECKER

He studies the girl.  His face has hardened.  He moves,

beginning to pace. (And also beginning his 'manipulations'.)

CAMERA FOLLOWS Hunsecker.  It now takes in Sidney who is

standing beside him.  Sidney has begun to stare fixedly at

Hunsecker. (He is now realizing that Hunsecker, although he

has been faced with this demonstration of the girl's

willingness to kill herself, has still learned nothing, is

still continuing in the old pattern.)

SIDNEY

A CLOSE UP.  Revolted, Sidney breaks in:

GROUP SHOT

Hunsecker wheels on Sidney, bellowing:

Sidney, with equal heat, spins round to Susan, crying out

before he has time to check himself:

SIDNEY

Sidney has gone too far now to pull back.  Inevitably, he

continues.  During the speech, CAMERA PULLS BACK to include

Susan and then Hunsecker.

During the latter part of the speech, Susan rises slowly to

her feet, staring first at Sidney and then, with fearful

significance, at her brother.  Hunsecker does not look at

her; he is concentrated on Sidney.  Twice he has been about

to demolish Sidney, but he now stops, A THOUGHT IN HIS HEAD.

HUNSECKER

He is perfectly controlled, smiling.

Hunsecker pauses impressively.

GROUP SHOT

Framing Hunsecker in foreground, Susan and Sidney beyond.

Susan listens to Hunsecker objectively, with a mounting

sense of his diseased reasoning.

SUSAN

She is looking at Hunsecker.

Slowly, Susan nods.

REVERSE ANGLE

SHOOTING ACROSS Susan onto Hunsecker.  Hunsecker turns away

from her and walks to the telephone.  He picks it up and

begins to speak.  While the scene continues, we hear his

voice off screen, speaking to the phone, saying: "This is

J.J. Hunsecker.  I want you to get a message through to

Lieutenant Kello.  Ask him to ring me back.  It's urgent."

Susan backs slowly away from Hunsecker.  Then she turns into

CAMERA, which TRACKS with her and includes Sidney.  Susan

looks at Sidney and then, ashamed, avoids his eye.  But

Sidney comes nearer to her.  Susan is deeply distressed.

She looks again at Sidney.  Deliberately, Sidney nods.

Susan walks toward her bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM

Susan comes into the room, finding shelter from the

revelation which has so appalled her.  Inexorably Sidney

follows her.  He comes across the threshold, closes the door.

A pause.  Sidney moves closer to her.

There are some tears of pity in Susan's eyes.  Once more she

moves away from Sidney.  Sidney senses that her compassion

for Hunsecker might easily lead her once again to slip back

into the trap.  He insists:

Another pause.  Sidney again repeats:

She moves away from Sidney, CAMERA following her.  After a

moment, she answers:

SIDNEY

Sidney is moved, having done his solitary act of chivalry.

To hide his feelings, he is harsh:

CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Susan.  From the other room, we

hear the telephone ring.  Sidney turns and goes quickly out.

After a moment, Susan looks back at the door through which

Sidney has disappeared.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Hunsecker is framed in foreground, speaking into the

telephone.  Sidney is in background, outside the door of

Susan's bedroom.  Hunsecker is fully aware of Sidney's

presence, as he says:

SIDNEY

A CLOSE SHOT.  He watches Hunsecker with a curious detachment.

Producing a cigarette, he lights it and then looks up

towards Hunsecker.

RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

Hunsecker framed in foreground, Sidney beyond.  Hunsecker

has at the same time been tapping a cigarette on the desk.

Sidney walks across to Hunsecker, offers the lighted match.

HUNSECKER - REVERSE ANGLE

As he accepts the light he continues speaking to the phone:

RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY

Sidney turns on his heel, walking out of the apartment.

CAFE ON BROADWAY

Kello is in a phone booth.

Kello leans out of the booth into the cafe signaling through

the window to the street outside where the squad car pulls

ahead to a position ready for him outside the door.

Kello hangs up.  Hurries out.  We see him get into the squad

car which rapidly accelerates.

INT. HUNSECKER'S LIVING ROOM

Hunsecker has hung up.  He stares at the telephone for a

moment.  Then he moves towards Susan's door, CAMERA TRACKING

with him.  He comes to the threshold, looks at Susan who is

standing in much the same position in which Sidney left her.

SUSAN

Unaware that her brother is watching her, she picks up the

fur coat on the bed. (She is about to start packing her

belongings.) She turns as she hears Hunsecker speak.

REVERSE ANGLE

SHOOTING ACROSS Susan, towards Hunsecker.  Hunsecker comes

into the room.

Susan turns squarely to face him.

RESUME SUSAN

She braces herself to tell him:

RESUME REVERSE ANGLE

He does not sense any danger in the seriousness of her tone

(or, if he does, refuses to recognize it.)

Without waiting for a response, Hunsecker goes out, closing

the door.  Susan stares at it for a moment.  Then she moves

to get a small suitcase which she lays on the bed.

TERRACE

Hunsecker opens the windows onto the terrace, comes out and

looks over the parapet, (looking to see how far Sidney has

got, hoping to see Kello's squad car.)

RESUME SUSAN

She completes her simple packing, closing the suitcase.

With a gesture that is obviously automatic, she starts to

put on the fur coat; then she halts, realizing what she is

doing.  She pauses; CAMERA MOVES CLOSER.  Now, deliberately

she throws the coat back on the bed.  CAMERA PANS down with

the gesture.  She looks down at the coat, the discarded

symbol of her dependence upon her brother.  CAMERA PULLS

BACK again as she takes a quick look round, then goes to

take a duffle coat from the wardrobe.  She throws this over

her arm, picks up the suitcase, goes to the door.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Susan comes out of the door.  She moves with a sober

determination, expecting to find Hunsecker in the room.

CAMERA TRACKS with her.  But then she realizes that Hunsecker

has gone out on the terrace.  She takes a step or two

towards him, then pauses.

HUNSECKER

From Susan's viewpoint, SHOOTING through the big glass

windows.  Hunsecker is at the parapet.  He is impatiently

looking down into Broadway.

SUSAN

A CLOSE UP.  She now realizes that there is no point in

saying goodbye to him: she has already told him that she is

leaving and, if she becomes involved in further argument

with him, it can do no good.  Yet there is some emotion on

her face as she takes a last look at her brother; she turns

away.

HUNSECKER

Framing him in foreground at the parapet.  Susan can be seen

through the windows before she disappears to the door.

Hunsecker reacts as he catches sight of a vehicle on Broadway

below...

EXT. BROADWAY

The squad car comes down Broadway at speed.

EXT. DUFFY'S SQUARE

Sidney is walking across the square.  The squad car appears

in foreground; it pauses hardly at all as Kello slips out of

it, and starts to move after Sidney.  Then the car

accelerates round Duffy Square to cut Sidney off on the

other side.

SIDNEY

Sidney comes up towards CAMERA.  Seeing something ahead, he

halts...

SQUAD CAR

From Sidney's viewpoint.  The car breaks to a stop.  It's

door opens and a detective gets out slowly.  It is Phil.

RESUME SIDNEY

Sidney is framed in foreground, the squad car beyond.

Sidney knows what this means.  He starts to speak before he

turns to look over his shoulder.

REVERSE ANGLE

Kello, moving silently up behind Sidney, slows down, amused

at Sidney's prescience.

Kello's manner is almost affectionate.  He shakes his head,

admonishing Sidney.

REVERSE ANGLE

SHOOTING ACROSS Kello onto Sidney.  Sidney's smile is tired.

Sidney turns away to look back towards Phil.  Then, taking

Kello totally by surprise, he wheels, striking the cop

viciously across the mouth.

KELLO

Kello's head jerks back.  Recovering at once, he guffaws,

lurches into CAMERA with a sudden vicious movement.  There

is a sharp guttural cry over scene.

LONGER ANGLE

Phil runs forward towards the figures of Sidney and Kello

seen beyond him.  In doing so, he blocks the view so that we

do not clearly see the violence with which Kello strikes

Sidney down.  Phil, in foreground, is seen to relax.  When

he moves aside, clearing the view, Sidney is writhing on the

ground at Kello's feet.

CLOSER ANGLE

Kello wipes his knuckles on his handkerchief.  He signals to

Phil to help lift the body at his feet.  Phil enters shot

and they raise Sidney, half carrying, half dragging him out

of shot.

LONG SHOT

The cops carry the figure of Sidney Falco across Duffy

Square; they bundle him into the police car.  The pigeons in

the square, circle.

HUNSECKER'S TERRACE

CAMERA LOOKS down towards Duffy Square in the distance.  The

police car can be seen moving off, circling the square and

disappearing southward on Broadway.  CAMERA PULLS BACK to

include Hunsecker in foreground.

HUNSECKER

A CLOSE SHOT, SHOOTING sharply upward at Hunsecker.  He

looks down, quiet impassively, and there is a slightly

insane grandeur, a paranoiac superiority in the way that he

turns back, dismissing Sidney from his thoughts.

INT. LIVING ROOM

CAMERA SHOOTS towards the closed door of Susan's room.

Hunsecker walks into the shot, stops before the door.  He

begins to take off his tie and unbutton his shirt, clearly

preparing to go to bed.  As an after-thought, he comes back

to the door, addresses it:

CAMERA MOVES CLOSER.  It is at a low level, still emphasizing

the man's dignity.  He strolls for a few paces.

CAMERA has now moved so that we are shooting past Hunsecker

onto Susan's door.  He gets no answer except silence.

HUNSECKER

A CLOSE SHOT, REVERSE ANGLE.  We now see in his face a

flicker of fear.  With what is clearly an effort, he

reassumes a confident manner.

Still no answer from inside the bedroom.  Hunsecker's forced

expression remains unnaturally fixed upon his face.  He

calls out:

INT. BEDROOM

The room is quite empty.  CAMERA SHOOTS across the bed

towards the door in background.  Susan's discarded fur coat

lies on the bed.  And the doors of the wardrobe are open.

Hunsecker's voice can be heard continuing over scene:

A pause.  Then, very tentatively, the bedroom door is opened.

Now he opens the door and comes in.

HUNSECKER

A BIG CLOSE UP.  The sight of the empty room freezes his

face for a moment.  His eyes look round.

INT. BEDROOM

From Hunsecker's viewpoint.  A PANNING SHOT, from the open

door of the cupboard to the fur coat.  CAMERA PULLS BACK to

include Hunsecker.  He steps to the bed, picks up the coat.

REVERSE ANGLE

There is a dazed, incredulous look on his face.  But, as he

glances over his shoulder, CAMERA ZOOMS PAST him towards a

little door in the wall behind him: It is ajar, showing a

couple of inches of light.

RESUME HUNSECKER

Once again Hunsecker reassures himself that Susan must be

behind the door.  But his voice is even more false as he

declares:

CAMERA NOW MOVES CLOSER and closer to Hunsecker.  The ANGLE

is a weird one, tilting grotesquely upward.

Hunsecker, his fists clenching fiercely at the fur coat,

walks towards the door.  CAMERA PANS with him.  He stands a

few inches from the narrow opening.  He seems about to push

the door open further, but is afraid to do so.

INT. BATHROOM

CAMERA SHOOTS ACROSS the bathtub, showing enough of the tiny

room to make it clear that it, too, is completely empty.

Through the slit in the door, we can see only a glimpse of

the movement of Hunsecker outside.  Hunsecker's voice

continues:

INT. BEDROOM

A DOWNWARD ANGLE, SHOOTING past Hunsecker to the door.  As

Hunsecker retreats from the door, he is still clutching the

fur coat.  He stands alone in the middle of the room and his

gestures are a little wild.  CAMERA rises higher to shoot

down at Hunsecker, alone in the little room.

With an increasingly eccentric manner, Hunsecker strides out

of the bedroom door into the living room again.

INT. LIVING ROOM

A similar ANGLE, SHOOTING down on Hunsecker as he comes out

of the bedroom.  But as he starts to roam the vast room,

CAMERA rises higher still, pulling backwards and upwards to

a LONG SHOT which holds the entirety of the big room in all

its ugliness.

Hunsecker is now addressing the whole of the apartment, no

longer pretending even to himself, that the girl is still

listening.  He moves off towards the windows to the terrace

where the curtains are now blowing in the morning wind.  He

goes out towards the terrace, his voice becoming more

distant - a man shouting empty nonsense, addressing no one.

EXT. BROADWAY

CAMERA SHOOTS STEEPLY UP towards the top of the Brill Bldg.

(At this angle Hunsecker's terrace will not be visible but

its position is established in relationship to the Budweiser

sign.) CAMERA PANS DOWN to pick up the figure of Susan

Hunsecker as she pushes her way out of the brass doors onto

Broadway.

CLOSER ANGLE

Susan pauses on the sidewalk.  She stays there for a moment.

She breathes in the fresh morning air, looking around with

the expression of someone who sees the world with new eyes.

Then she starts up Broadway - away from the Times Square

area.  The girl's step has a purpose in it; she has

confidence and courage.  Music for the end titles is quiet,

simple and lyrical.

