Exile is not a material thing, it is a spiritual thing,

all corners of the earth exactly the same. And anywhere

one can dream is good, providing the place is obscure,

and the horizon vast.

If a triangle could speak it would say that God is

eminently triangular.

1 EXT. TEHRAN, IRAN - MORNING 1

The minarets of Shi'a mosques dot the skyline. The sun

rises through the smog. Keening SIRENS call the faithful.

A GROUP of bearded, turbanned MEN in white robes carrying

Korans walk down an empty street.

As the religious men pass a nondescript metal door, a

THUMPING SOUND rises...

The door cracks open and THREE MUSLIM WOMEN in full black

sack emerge. The door shuts quickly behind them.

Stay with the THREE MUSLIM WOMEN as they walk away. CLICK

CLICK CLICK on the cobblestone. We hear GIGGLES.

SUPERTITLE: TEHRAN, IRAN

One of them reaches down and removes stiletto high-heels,

which disappear under-the black cloth.

2 INT. PRIVATE NIGHTCLUB - MORNING 2

Down two flights of crowded stairs, there's a bar, dance

floor, low couches, minimal lighting, wasted PEOPLE.

Wealthy young IRANIANS sit at a table littered with ice-

buckets and bottles of Absolut and Johnnie Walker.

And with them is BOB BAER, 40's, professionally

nondescript, he could be anything, a salesman, a high-

school teacher. His face is ever-changing and his eyes

miss nothing. Bob is the only American in the place and

still you almost wouldn't notice him.

ARASH AMIRI, 20's, a confident young Iranian, yells over

the music. Beside him is his BROTHER.

Have you ever tried liquid MDMA?

Bob's forehead is sweating and his hair is sticking to

it, which he wipes away as he sips his scotch.

Liquid MDMA? No, I never tried it.

The music is louder. Arash proudly shouts over it --

Tehran is the world capital!

Bob doesn't respond. Arash shouts again --

ABASH AMIRI (CONT'D)

So, how's the kid?

Great. He's great.

Arash just stares. Bob sips his drink.

Are we gonna do this?

A girl begins to dance in front of Arash.

After prayer --

3 EXT. TEHRAN ROOFTOP - DAY 3

DISTANT POV down to the street as TWO CARS pull up. Bob

gets out of one, walks to the rear, opens the trunk --

4 EXT. TEHRAN STREET - DAY 4

The trunk SLAMS. Bob carries a worn ATTACHE CASE. The

Amiris get out of their car, oblivious Shiite party boys.

Bob walks, happy. Dour MEN at cafe tables miss nothing.

5 INT. KEBAB SHOP - DAY 5

Corrugated metal shutters CLOSE, sealing out the light.

Arash ushers Bob through the gloom toward TWO MILITARY

CASES. Bob expertly flips one over and opens it.

Inside: A STINGER MISSILE, neatly disassembled. He finds

the serial number: 3j16w4921.

A SMILEY FACE is scratched into the metal of the Stinger.

Bob tries to activate the Stinger. It's dead. Arash and

his brother perspire. Bob is perspiring.

Bob thinks he hears faint MOUTH BREATHING from behind the

curtain closing off the rear of the shop.

Bob opens HIS ATTACHE CASE. He removes a pouch. The pouch

holds a battery. The battery has a serial number.

Bob finds: 3j16w4921. A perfect match. He removes the

dead battery and replaces it with the live battery. He

activates the missile. It works. Everyone is relieved.

Bob moves to THE NEXT MILITARY CASE. He replaces the next

battery and activates the second missile.

Arash and his brother share a celebratory glance. Arash

suddenly takes ONE CASE and drags it through the curtain.

Bob hears LOW VOICES. He turns questioningly to Arash's

brother who just stares and smiles like an idiot.

Then Arash reappears, passing by Bob.

You said they were both for you.

Arash tosses an envelope at Bob --

What do you care?

Bob glances in the envelope. Behind him, the Amiris are

picking up the other case. Bob moves toward the curtain.

IN THE BACK OF THE SHOP Bob's eyes adjust. Several robed

shapes, ghosts in grey light, carry the case out a door.

The BARREL OF A GUN touches the side of Bob's head. The

SOUND of a SHELL CHAMBERED and a MOUTH BREATHER.

Bob raises his hands. The barrel slides around to his

forehead and Bob is staring into the blue eyes of

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA, 40's, bearded, and calm.

I was looking for the bathroom.

MSA seems remarkably serene, then he screams in Arabic.

BOB (FARSI) (CONT'D)

You don't speak Farsi, do you, you

son of a goat?

MSA screams again, tightening his finger on the trigger,

then he backs out the door, never losing aim on Bob.

6 EXT. TEHRAN ROOFTOP - DAY 6

The HIGH POV down to the street. The Amiris exit the

kebab shop carrying the REMAINING MILITARY CASE.

CAMERA ADJUSTS to incorporate SOMEONE'S HAND on the

rooftop. And next to it, a remote-control TRIGGER DEVICE.

7 EXT. TEHRAN STREET - DAY 7

As the Amiris carry the case toward their car, Bob

appears in the doorway and heads up the street toward us.

Behind Bob, in the distance, the Amiris get into the car.

Bob glances up at the roof and NODS ONCE, continuing to

walk toward camera as --

The car EXPLODES. Bob walks on as if nothing happened.

8 INT. TEHRAN CAFE - DAY 8

Tight on the game of Asteroids. The version from the

70's. Black and white triangle "spaceship" spinning,

shooting white dots at drifting "rocks," breaking them

up, only to create more rocks.

A hand rapidly hits the firing button. ROBBY BAER, 16,

concentrates, hits hyper space, smiles, remembers he has

a retainer, hides his smile.

He glances over at a cafe table where Bob and MARGARET

BAER, 40's, frank and guarded in a way that is

compelling, are having morning coffee. We realize that

all around them are IRANIANS, that a crowd is massing in

the street outside, and that Bob clearly doesn't want to

have this conversation.

If you go back you get promoted.

Which could open doors later. For

consulting.

Those people back there don't know

what's going on. They don't wanna

know.

Have you thought about college?

Has that made it onto the radar

screen?

And it's not like anybody else

could roll in here. It's not like

it's just reading reports.

I took Pakistan because of the

hardship pay. The private school

Bob's expression, not unkind, but familiar to her, says

he knows exactly why she took Pakistan.

I believe in what I'm doing, too.

They look at each other.

Well, then here we are.

Here we are.

In the street it's turning into a full-blown protest.

Let's say, somehow, I get a Branch

or even a Group, then what? Will

you come? Will you bring Robby?

Now, Margaret looks away. A STUDENT-LEADER is up on a

platform brandishing a Coke bottle, SHOUTING in Farsi

into a bullhorn.

What's he saying?

He's against the ban on Coca-Cola.

He says you have to fix your soul,

which is not something you can put

on a soft-drink.

We see the faces of the protesters, silently staring,

their mouths covered by black tape.

9 INT. WOODMAN HOUSE - MORNING 9

At a kitchen table, RILEY, almost 3, puts his hand in a

bowl of dry Cheerios, squishes it around, then throws a

handful on the floor.

BRYAN (O.S.)

You are a Cheerio dissemination

device. Yes, you are --

Pull back to find his father, BRYAN WOODMAN, American,

late 20's, in a shirt and tie. Blonde and blue-eyed like

a modern T.E. Lawrence, he's lost in the child, sharing

his sense of wonder.

JULIE (O.S.)

Don't let him do that, please.

His wife, JULIE WOODMAN, 28, sleepy American, very fit in

sweats, cooks bacon at an older range. They have the

worst house in the best neighborhood and have yet to

properly furnish it.

. An evolutionarily perfect

machine for the spreading of

imported Cheerios to all corners

of the kitchen.

The toddler smiles at him. Julie puts four plates down.

They both notice the empty place setting. Just then, a

golden boy, MAX, 6, enters the kitchen.

Mommy, I want bacon.

You have bacon.

Max sits at the table.

I want real bacon.

You have real bacon, only it's

made from soy beans.

Max looks at his plate.

I want pig bacon.

10 EXT. GENEVA WATERFRONT - DAY 10

Bryan drives a BMW wagon along Lake Geneva, the fountain

spouting into the sky. A kite is wedged upside down in

the foot well.

SUPERTITLE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND

On every building signs advertise watch companies.

11 INT. MINI TV STUDIO - DAY 11

A brightly-lit Bryan listens to an ear-piece in front of

a Colombe Suisse de Banque banner.

Our position is that there is at

least twelve dollars of

instability premium in the market.

Protests in Iran. Threat of more

strikes in Venezuela. The Turks

still making noise about Russian

crude through the Bosphorus.

You're welcome, Rebecca.

12 INT. COLOMBE SUISSE DE BANQUE - GENEVA - DAY 12

Across the small trading floor, Bryan is sealed off in a

mini TV studio, then the lights switch off and Bryan

leaves the booth --

TIGHTER ON Bryan as he walks past TRADERS staring into

computers while talking into phones --

TRADER (O.S.)

Long and strong on demand numbers,

protests in Iran and, what else is

new, the Vens are threatening

strike. Place is en fuego --

TRADER #2 (O.S.)

People want it warmer, colder,

they leave their TV's on when they

drive to the video store. Twelve

bucks of premium --

VINCENT, 30's, depressed, handsome French trader in a

beautiful suit, working two phones, sees Bryan --

Bryan waves him off, keeps walking.

Market's on its way up. Just

thought you should know.

Done. Yep. Bring him in now. Tell

him he's done and bring him in.

(yelling to Bryan)

Woodman, I need you --

Vincent sees Bryan disappear into his office, door

shutting behind him. A small sign reads: RESEARCH.

13 INT. BRYAN'S OFFICE - DAY 13

Soundproofed office. Peaceful. Diplomas. Three TVs play:

CNN; a black and white image of a pinched OLD MAN; army

tanks rolling through Iraq in night vision. Bryan is on

the phone. We hear a THREE YEAR-OLD VOICE --

RILEY (OVER PHONE)

Hello, Daddy. I'm playing. That's

my job. Playing.

ON BRYAN'S DESK, mounds of research, books, reports,

numbers. In the phone Bryan can hear Julie laughing.

BRYAN (INTO PHONE)

That's a very good job to have.

JULIE (OVER PHONE)

Tell Daddy you love him.

An abrupt three year-old HANG-UP. Bryan looks up and sees

HIS BRITISH BOSS holding a FANCY INVITATION.

The Emir's summer party. In

Marbella. Any interest?

(re: his piled desk)

I can't. I've got all this --

I'm not really asking.

It's Max's birthday. We've got

stuff all weekend.

Vincent sticks his head in the door --

September T-I ticked up fifteen

cents and is rebounding. Where's

the next resistance level?

Read my report --

(noticing the invite)

The Emir's party; I'll take that.

Vincent tries to snatch the invite.

Through much finagling we have an

audience with the Emir. He wrote

the strategy and he's not slick.

In fact, take your children with

you - a birthday weekend for Max.

The towelheads love children.

ON TV: JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER in a safari hat leads a group

in BAPTIST HYMNS on a croquet lawn while the tanks roll

through Baghdad.

14 EXT. TUNDRA - KAZAKHSTAN - DAY 14

Tundra seen from the air in the ex-Soviet republic.

A giant ditch cuts the landscape. In the giant ditch is a

giant pipe leading to a ramshackle oil "facility" of

shipping containers scattered around a derrick.

15 EXT. NEAR ATYRAU, KAZAKHSTAN - DAY 15

BULLDOZER with wheels as big as a house.

16 SUPERTITLE: TENGIZ, KAZAKHSTAN 16

Marching music comes from a tin speaker on a wooden pole.

Animal pieces roast on a grill made from oil drums.

Oilmen cluster around makeshift wooden tables. BENNETT

HOLIDAY, 35, African-American, a clean-cut lawyer, maybe

horn rims, starting to grey, sits at a table with RUSSIAN

OIL EXECS. The LEADER eats ribs with tiny teeth.

Are you a director or executive of

this company?

The leader gnaws on a bone. Bennett points down to a mess

of contracts and legal papers in front of him.

Is this your fax number?

The leader speaks rapidly in RUSSIAN. Bennett is baffled.

Finally, an UNDERLING translates.

He says, we eat every part of the

pony!

Ask him if he's been receiving

faxes'at this number? Ask him if

this is his phone number?

(to the leader)

Is this a number to reach you?

Again, the leader speaks in rapid Russian.

He says, the weather in Siberia is

very cold!

I'm asking you about this payment.

Who is this person on the account?

Bennett notices a Russian, OSKAR WERNER-TYPE, wearing

THICK-FRAMED GLASSES, smoking and staring at him. Another

RUSSIAN glances at the paperwork.

Bank is no more.

I know bank is no more. I'm trying

to find out where the assets went.

The Russians nod to the MUSIC coming from the poles. Now

the leader speaks in surprisingly good English.

This is marching music composed

for Stalin. Inspiring for workers.

The leader smiles at Bennett. It's a scary smile. The

THICK-FRAMED GLASSES GUY is still staring.

The investment dollar that matters

is one that has army behind it. We

are very good friend of United

States. Who you want arguing for

you in The Hague? Argentina?

The leader spreads his arms expansively to take in the

miles of empty tundra around them.

From right here we light and heat

Europe for next fifty years.

Killeen and Kazakhstan - partners

forever!

17 INT. CONNEX OIL BOARDROOM - DAY 17

You're not taking this seriously.

You don't think this is a problem.

One wall is a map of the world except where there should

be jagged country boundaries are perfectly straight

resource lines. It's color coded: the world divided into

energy corporations: EXXON/MOBIL, BRITISH PETROLEUM,

SHELL, CONNEX, KILLEEN, TOTAL, GAZPROM, LUKOIL...

TOMMY (O.S.) (CONT'D)

A U.S. Attorney is looking into

your relationships in Kazakhstan

and the U.S. Government is holding

up approval of our merger...

At one end of a long table in a corporate boardroom

President TOMMY BARTON, 50's, a hatchet-man of Zen-like

corporate efficiency, heads a group of EXECUTIVES. A

small placard labels this faction - CONNEX.

SUPERTITLE: CONNEX WORLD HEADQUARTERS - HOUSTON, TEXAS

The Board thinks it's a problem.

Mr. Janus certainly thinks it's a

JAMES "JIMMY" POPE, 50's, a powerful presence leavened by

Connecticut minor chords, speaks from the far end where

an opposing faction is labeled: KILLEEN.

Is the Caspian a lake or a sea,

Thomas?

That's an important legal point --

Oh give me another lecture on

subsurface rights, Thomas.

Jimmy stands. He is imposing in a Lyndon Johnson visits

Congress sort of way.

If the Caspian is a sea, you can

make deals with the Stans, but if

it's a lake, then the rights are

shared equally by all countries,

including Iran. And by an act of

our Congress it is illegal to

trade with Iran, so we can't be in

business with any of those

countries, even though they have

oil and we sell it. This is our

business, Tommy, selling oil, not

finding it. Anyone can find it.

It's everywhere.

Jimmy motions out the window --

A monkey can stick a straw in the

ground, slurp it out and boil it,

right, Thomas? But you wanna make

it commercial, you wanna turn it

into a commodity, then you gotta

be able to move it and to move it,

you gotta have relationships.

Take The Gulf --

That's enough, Jimmy.

No, I want to talk about The Gulf

and how a goddamn E-mir, what is

an E-mir anyway --

King. It's a king --

How some podunk King tossed you

out on your ass.

Jimmy pulls out a sharpie, walks to the Resource Map and

defaces it, drawing the outline of an actual country,

Kazakhstan, in Central Asia, home of the Tengiz Field.

Every company in the world wanted

into Kazakhstan, into the Tengiz,

but Killeen got it and then Connex

wanted Killeen and here we are. I

made investments. Investments that

will bear fruit for this company.

Hell, Tommy, we've all got the

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

committed to memory. I've got a

little copy taped to the wall of

my head... Up here.

Thank you, Jimmy. You know how

much we appreciate hearing your

point of view; however, Mr. Janus

and I have asked Connex's

Washington counsel, Sydney Hewitt,

to come down here and talk about

strategy for the next thirty days.

The eyes all shift to SYDNEY HEWITT,. 60's, Alabama smooth

accent and ever-so-certain.

In a way I feel like Switzerland

and I'd like to remind everyone in

this room that they've signed

confidentiality agreements.

Polite LAUGHTER.

And allow me to introduce my

associate, Bennett Holiday, who

will be, how should I put it,

building consensus day to day.

Bennett, the only African-American in the room, takes in

the faces now all staring at him. All the white faces.

18 INT. PLANE - DAY 18

Business Class cabin. Bennett looks out the window. His

POV of clouds and farmland and the Mississippi River.

Sydney emerges from First with a scotch and sits.

You just visited what someday soon

could be the most profitable

corporation in America.

Provided the government approves

the merger --

Provided we don't start running

cars on water. Provided there's

still chaos in the Middle-East.

This ain't the SEC anymore, son,

and maybe you got a couple scalps

on your belt from your time over

there - Enron, World Com - but now

the job is find the problem, fix

the problem. And if you don't find

a problem, then there is no

problem.

Bennett notices that Sydney wears a Mickey Mouse watch.

And WHEN the government approves

this merger it's gonna buy a lot

of houses out on the Vineyard,

maybe even yours, so, of course,

it's delicate all around. Who's

this U.S. Attorney, Donald Farish

the 3rd? What's his agenda? Who's

behind him? Is it a political

force? Another corporation? Is he

a glory boy making a name?

I know him. He taught a class of

mine at Georgetown Law.

Sydney knew this, of course. Sydney looks Bennett over,

then he chuckles, the effect of which is unsettling.

Well, there you go, he taught a

class of yours at Georgetown Law.

Mr. .Whiting did say to me, I have

a feeling about this young man. He

said, he can position himself.

Sydney stands.

Hold these guys in a circle. Ask

the careful questions. I don't

need to tell you this is a hell of

an opportunity for you to catch

those peers who have spent, how

should I put it, less time on the

government dole.

And get rid of that fancy watch,

it makes you look like a Jew.

Sydney disappears back up into first class, carefully

pulling the curtain in place behind him.

19 EXT. NATURAL GAS LIQUEFACTION PLANT - THE GULF - DAY 19

blue jumpsuits while painting a brown handrail green.

A VAN stops beside their team and someone YELLS in Urdu.

20 INT. VAN - DAY 20

They drive with OTHER WORKERS across the refinery.

21 EXT. REFINERY - DAY 21

A huge sign in mandarin declares the project funded by

CHINA GAS AND ELECTRIC - the Chinese oil conglomerate.

SUPERTITLE: NATURAL GAS LIQUEFACTION PLANT - PERSIAN GULF

Chinese ENGINEERS in white have rounded up a group of

Pakistanis who stand together sweating in the extreme

heat, an image not much changed since Colonialism.

ENGINEER (IN MANDARIN)

Your services are no longer needed

here at the China Gas and Electric

facility.

A PAKISTANI translates into Urdu for the-group. Find

Saleem and Wasim in the crowd --

SALEEM (IN URDU)

What did they say? I can't hear.

They're letting us go.

The whole group?

The whole group.

In the distance, the engineer is droning on.

We know you have worked hard and

wish to thank you for that hard

work with a small cash bonus which

you may collect on your way out of

the facility.

What did he say? I can't hear. I

can't hear.

He's telling us to scram.

Scram? What do you mean, scram?

ANGLE ON: The engineer pointing toward the exit of the

facility. He turns to another ENGINEER nearby.

Look at them standing there. Like

blue cows. Shit. Get them moving.

22 EXT. LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS FACILITY, PERSIAN GULF - DAY 22

Wasim and Saleem cross the desert near the LNG facility.

The Chinese are smart people, but

such bad drivers. They should not

be allowed even to wash cars.

Wasim doesn't say anything. They walk in silence. Then --

When I was your age, in Pakistan,

there was always in the distance--

SALEEM/WASIM (SIMUL)

Snow covered mountains.

That's right. Three hours away,

but right there, white across the

sky, like you could reach out and

touch them. Snow covered

mountains.

Ahead is transient worker housing. Wasim takes in

plywood fencing surrounding identical huts.

As soon as we can, we'll get a

real house and bring your mother

here. I promise.

Wasim just looks at his dad who puts his arm around him.

The refinery and power lines shimmer behind them.

23 INT. FOREIGN WORKERS COMPOUND - PERSIAN GULF - DAY 23

Sterile, white trailers in neat rows with laundry hanging

out of windows. MEN wash at a communal shower.

Wasim begins stripping off his grimy uniform. Saleem

shouts to a few MEN batting a cricket ball around.

24 EXT. POWER LINES IN DESERT - PERSIAN GULF - DAY 24

Massive POWER LINES drape from steel pyramid to steel

pyramid. A GROUP of TEENAGERS, including Wasim and

FAROOQ, 16, a self-styled leader, drink home-fermented

alcohol from a Styrofoam cup. They wear jeans, T-shirts,

caps. Ragged, unbathed, they're wasted.

Farooq takes a gulp, makes a face, swallows, SHOUTS --

Ow, ow, ow, ahhh --

He throws up. The KIDS laugh. He comes up composed --

An announcement. An announcement.

If man is made in God's image,

then God is deeply messed up.

Farooq shoves the cup at Wasim. He tries to push it away.

You afraid? Afraid of the buzz?

I'm afraid of your breath.

Wasim points at a silent kid hanging back from the group.

Hakim hasn't had any. And Hakim

wears jewelry.

He thinks that little bracelet's

gonna get him girls.

They start chanting HAKIM, HAKIM, HAKIM in encouragement.

Hakim, sphynx-like, just looks at them.

(to another kid)

What's wrong with your brother,

anyway?

Hakim looks to his brother, then lifts up his shirt.

There is a recent scar where a kidney would be.

You can drink with one. You don't

need two.

HAKIM, HAKIM, HAKIM.

Hakim isn't sure.

I want to talk to your uncle about

work.

HAKIM, HAKIM, HAKIM.

Farooq. You have to introduce me.

There isn't any work. Quit

pestering me. Hakim, Hakim --

Finally, Hakim sips and holds his side. The boys' cheers

are thin and vulnerable in the immense desert.

In the distance a luxury car is parked. And U.S. Military

25 EXT. BELTWAY - DAY 25

A line of commuter traffic from inside a car. Bob's eyes

appear in the rearview. He sits in traffic.

FRANKS (V.0.)

Bob's freaking out about this

other missile. Where's the

missile? Who has the missile? He

wrote a memo.

26 INT. DIVISION CHIEF'S OFFICE - DAY 26

The DIVISION CHIEF, a woman in her 40's, patrician and

smooth, stares out of the glass box office toward the

trees. FRED FRANKS, 30's, a saltine dipped in milk,

.I just finished convincing the.

Brits and French Intel we had

nothing to do with the Amiri job.

Now what do we say: remember that

thing we had nothing to do with,

well, there's something missing.

The Division Chief finishes listening patiently.

Okay, here's something. Put him up

for a promotion. Bob's a good guy.

He saved our ass in Beirut in '85.

Great. Terry likes him. We'll get

him an audition downtown.

27 EXT. BELTWAY - DAY 27

You'll get him an audition

Bob exits into downtown D.C, the traffic lightening. He

goes through a tunnel.

28 INT. DIVISION CHIEF'S OFFICE - DAY 28

The idea of promoting Bob gains traction --

Bob's a hero. They'll give him

something good. He is an Iran

expert.

Fred, Bob's never had a desk job,

never done nine-to-five. Can he

show up to work everyday? Can he

stay on message?

Yes, absolutely. I'll prep him.

29 INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE SITUATION ROOM - WHITE HOUSE - DAY 29

Bob waits in a hard back chair. It's a spare, functional,

highly polished place. Marines like statues stand guard.

VOICES come from a partially open door across the hall.

MARILYN (V.0.)

Imagine gasoline ten dollars a

gallon at the pump. Or heating oil

that costs twenty-five hundred a

month for a two-bedroom apartment.

If oil goes to a hundred a barrel,

the U.S. turns into a third-world

country. That is a fact.

TERRY GEORGE (V.0.)

Do you have any analysis to back

up that fact?

SUPERTITLE: WASHINGTON, D.C.

DISTINGUISHED VOICE (V.0.)

In the next fifteen years, The

North Sea and Alaska dry up. Two

million barrels a day to the U.S.

gone. That is a known fact.

30 INT. SITUATION ROOM - WHITE HOUSE - DAY 30

The Deputies Meeting. A small room with recessed lighting

filled with the rung below the top-tier of Washington

bureaucracy. Navy STENO GUYS record the conversation.

I need data supporting known

facts. Because what I know is that

in the entire region when we even

whisper our support, those people

are delegitimized.

TERRY GEORGE, 40's, Deputy CIA Chief, quite a good guy to

those in power, speaks to a DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN,

60's. Through the partially open door, one third of Bob

is visible.

Iraq had no established ethnic

majority.

It's like trying to organize

Louisiana. Iran, on the other

hand, is Persian --

The Deputy National Security Advisor, MARILYN RICHARDS,

40's, sculpted hair, with the soul of a seventy year-old

white, Republican male, is in charge --

There has been some good news

concerning Iran lately. Right,

Terry?

For Iran, yes --

The President is very interested

in Iran, Terry.

Marilyn takes in the presence of the DISTINGUISHED

GENTLEMEN sitting near her. Terry slides a file across

the table to her.

I know that, Marilyn. In fact, we

just pulled one of our officers

out and I took the initiative to

ask him to come down here. He

infiltrated Hezbollah in Beirut in

the eighties, won himself some

nice medals. We're thinking about

giving him a station.

Beirut in the eighties, is that a

resume builder?

Polite chuckles follow Terry George to the doorway.

31 INT. OUTSIDE SITUATION ROOM - WHITE HOUSE - DAY 31

We're fine. Iran is fine. Fine.

32 INT. SITUATION ROOM - WHITE HOUSE - DAY 32

Bob sweats slightly as he plows on, reading from notes.

And our analysis seems to be

on the mark... And we're getting

good satellite coverage.

Bob is clearly working from a script. Terry George is

pleased and gives Bob the slightest of approving nods.

And we're reprogramming resources

into Iran. Our next review will

show that ---

Thank you for coming over, Mr.

Baer. Welcome back and forgive me

if I wade right in, but forgetting

for a second your bureaucratic

checklist, I'm trying to get

undigested information, so if you

could give me a reading of the

temperature over there?

Bob glances at Terry. Exasperated, Marilyn continues.

India is now our ally. Russia is

our ally. Even China will be an

ally. Everybody between Morocco

and Pakistan is the problem.

Failed states and failed

economies, but Iran is a natural

cultural ally of the U.S. The

Persians do not want to roll back

the clock to the 8th century. I

see students marching in the

streets. I hear Khatami making the

right sounds. And what I'd like to

know is if we keep embargoing them

on energy, then someday soon are

we going to get a nice, secular,

pro-Western, pro-business

government?

The steno guys type away. A long beat on Bob.

It's possible. It's complicated.

Of course it is, Mr. Baer. Thank

you for your time.

Bob looks to Terry who nods. Bob starts to leave.

(sotto, to the room)

Intelligence is the misnomer of

the century.

Bob stops. He can't help himself --

They let young people march in the

street and then the next day shut

down fifty newspapers. They have a

few satellite dishes up on roofs,

let 'em have My Two Dads, but that

doesn't mean the Ayatollahs have

relinquished one iota of control

over that nation.

The steno guys hands are frozen.

Mr. Baer, the reform movement in

Iran is one of the President's

great hopes for the region and

crucial to the petroleum security

of the United States.

These gentlemen are with the CLI.

Bob has no idea what this is or whether he should answer.

The Committee for the Liberation

of Iran, Mr. Baer.

We've had Iran in embargo for

almost thirty years, we backed

their neighbor, a neighbor we

invaded twice, in a ten year war

against them, we're hanging on by

a thread with a massive occupation

force, so I got news for you...

Thomas Jefferson just ain't that

popular over there right now.

Silence except for the steno guys clicking away, then

complete silence. Terry George stares at Bob a long beat.

That will be all, Mr. Baer.

33 EXT. CAPITOL HILL APARTMENT - MORNING 33

Bennett exits a cab, walks up the steps with an overnight

bag. A MAN, 60's, tough and well-preserved, in a dark

suit and tie, waits on the stoop with a folded paper.

DANNY DALTON (V.0.)

I hear phrases thrown around like

"the corrupting influence of

money" or "the evil influence of

dollars in politics," when more

money was spent on the syndication

rights to Seinfeld than on the

whole of the last presidential

election.

Bennett just walks past him to open the door.

34 INT. BENNETT'S APARTMENT - MORNING 34

A nice three bedroom that is part of the quiet

gentrification movement not yet reflected in the streets.

Cable news plays silently in the living room. There's a

goldfish in a small aquarium.

Through a door, Bennett and the man are in the kitchen.

35 INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 35

A SMALL TV: plays C-Span testimony on Campaign Finance

Reform. DANNY DALTON, 40's, an "oilman," testifies.

Last election cycle I spent three

hundred thousand. I got pictures

of myself with the President that

I use all over the world. People

don't know Danny Dalton, but they

know the President of the United

States and they see that I know

the President of the United

States...

Bennett has showered and changed. He makes coffee. The

man sits at a dinette. He lights a cigarette.

I'm not making this coffee for

you. I'm making it for me. You I'm

making oatmeal and then you sleep.

You look like shit.

Bennett just stares for a moment. Bennett takes the

oatmeal off the stove, sets a bowl in front of the man

whose fingernails are black, whose dark suit is filthy.

Are you working?

I had a little trouble at work.

Bennett grabs his travel coffee and starts away --

There's some beer in the fridge

for after you wake up, so you

don't die on my floor of the DT's.

And no smoking in my house.

Bennett leaves the kitchen. The man yells after him.

I don't need your goddamn

hospitality.

The front door SLAMS. The man glances up at a photo of

Bennett Jr. at his Howard University graduation. And next

to it, the man, BENNETT SR., graduating 25 years earlier.

ON TV: old, white senators listening judiciously.

DANNY DALTON (ON TV)

In our country we don't stuff

dollars into ballot boxes. What we

do is turn money into votes and

what turns money into votes is

free speech - the ability of a

candidate to get his message out -

and that takes money, real money,

meaning, not so loosely

translated: MONEY IS SPEECH! And

last time I checked, speech in the

USA is protected. You can't limit

my advocacy just because it works.

I have a sovereign, inalienable

right to petition my government.

Tilt up to find Bennett Senior, part of a six pack

dangling from two fingers, staring at a wall covered with

an intricate MATRIX of KILLEEN OIL's limited partnerships

and strategic alliances all over the world.

DANNY DALTON (CONT'D)

The money I gave the President is

the best investment I have ever

made in my business. Next election

cycle I plan to double it.

And why is it some dirty little

secret that it's in America's

interest to do business overseas?

Bennett Sr. stares up at the wall. He pops a beer.

36 EXT. EMIR'S ESTATE - MARBELLA - DAY 36

Bryan and Julie and the kids arrive at the manicured

entrance of a vast, impressive estate, their rental wagon

anomalous among Bentleys and Rolls.

An Arab valet opens Julie's door. The kids are excited.

37 EXT. GARDEN - DAY 37

A geometric sculpture garden. Giacomettis and Henry

Moores. A TV monitor plays video of gardens and flowers.

GUESTS cluster together. You could almost tag labels on

them: arms dealer, Ambassador, Minister of Trees.

Bryan and Julie and the kids wander into the party.

.I'm probably the tenth guy this

month to pitch something like

this. It's like the Godfather.

Emir, I come to you on this

special day. Vincent is riding

motorcycles through Cambodia,

through land-mines. Some charity

thing.

That's guilt not charity. He's

Catholic and can't view himself as

a shallow model f.u.c.k.e.r, which

he is. And when war breaks out in

some energy producing country,

he's the first one into work.

Bryan looks at her.

Honey... you're a man who supports

his family, not a boy.

I thought you like him. Vincent.

I do, honey. For you, I like him

very much.

She takes his hand as they walk.

VOICE (O.S.)

Please, attention please, your

host, his majesty, the Emir...

ON A TV MONITOR: the Emir, HAMAD AL-SUBAAI, 60's,

bearded, overweight, sitting in front of greenery, his

TWO SONS behind him, addresses his party guests.

EMIR (ON TV)

It is my pleasure to personally

welcome each of you to the Casa De

Las Palmas, our oasis of palms in

the south of Spain.

38 INT. EMIR'S PRIVATE OFFICE - DAY 38

The EMIR, his two sons, PRINCE MESHAL, late 20's, weak-

chinned, effeminate, with longish hair, and PRINCE NASIR,

30's, handsome, with large expressive eyes, close-cropped

hair, powerful and serious, are across a table from

CHINESE OIL EXECUTIVES.

The Emir's PRERECORDED SPEECH drones on --

EMIR (ON TV)

And symbolic of the affection of

my people for each of you. At nine

o'clock, we will have wonderful

music from the London

Philharmonic. Please eat and

socialize and enjoy.

The Emir ignores himself on TV and turns to business. He

recently had a stroke and was filmed from his good side.

(a slight slurring)

I am happy to welcome the Chinese

to my country and optimistic you

will not be nearly as greedy as

the Americans.

Assiduous nods from the CHINESE oil executives as the

King's young Japanese SECRETARY slides contracts across.

39 EXT. POOL PAVILION - DAY 39

Bryan and Julie watch Max tentatively approach the pool.

Nearby, Riley has introduced himself to an Arab family.

Arabs are very family oriented, as

a people. Is that racist?

Max, a book-oriented, rather than water-oriented, child

is afraid to jump in.

Not if what you're saying is

positive.

A bigger BOY fakes like he might push him in. Bryan

starts to his feet --

Don't. Let him work this out. It's

important for his autonomy.

Max finds his courage, jumps, and disappears beneath the

surface, then bobs up happily. Julie smiles.

Hedge strategies are tough for

these guys. Oil goes up the people

wonder why those extra billions

aren't in the treasury. Prices go

down, no one's thanking them for

saving a few bucks.

Julie looks at her husband to determine whether he's

testing his "pitch" or in need of encouragement.

Make a game of it. Pretend they're

six year-olds and you have to get

them to eat carrots and all they

want is dessert. Make it about

good parenting.

40 INT. EMIR'S PRIVATE OFFICE - DUSK 40

The house is a Genius-Home. One of

my sons had it wired by experts

from the United States.

The Emir sort of wilts, fading out. Prince Meshal foists

a remote control on his father. The other son, Prince

Nasir observes his father and brother.

The Emir rouses. He presses a few buttons. The monitors

show the estate: lawn; squash court; guard house.

watch...

ON TV: the image of a rear guard house. Suddenly, the

gate slides back, stops, slides the other way.

CHINESE OIL EXECUTIVE

Your Highness, that is incredible.

(to Prince Nasir)

Prince Nasir, isn't that amazing?

Fascinating.

The Emir presses the remote. ON TV: seven swimming pools.

Meshal proudly shares the moment with his father.

Oh, look, it's getting dark,

better turn on the lights --

ON SIX OF SEVEN MONITORS: pool lights turn on, shimmering

turquoise. One pool remains dark.

The Emir notices the dark pool. He presses the device.

ON THE MONITOR: The lights go off. He presses again. Six

pools light up, but one is still dark.

The Emir ignores his son and speaks for the room.

Send a fool on a fool's errand.

Meshal frantically tries to make the pool light come on.

ON THE MONITOR: ONE IS STILL DARK --

41 EXT. POOL SIDE - DUSK 41

CHILDREN SCREAM, shouting, playing tag in the crepuscular

light beside the dark pool. Max is among the children.

42 EXT. UNDER WATER - DARK POOL - DUSK 42

The SOUND of ELECTRICITY. We push toward a darkened pool

light. The cover is cracked and the light is filled with

water. Closer. Blue light arcs inside the cover. The

SOUND of ELECTRICITY is LOUDER.

43 INT. EMIR'S ANTECHAMBER - NIGHT 43

Pictures of the Emir with Nixon, Carter, Ronald Reagan,

Poppy Bush, Clinton, Bush II.

TWO GULF BUSINESSMEN, reps of the Emir, appear and

address Bryan who is waiting.

We regret that His Highness will

be unable to see you. However, we

are authorized to hear your

proposition on his behalf.

Here?

They nod. Bryan looks around. It's awkward.

Well, okay... The real worry

facing you guys is another year of

record pricing. There are no more

elephant fields. Not even in

Natural Gas. As structural

alternatives are more fully

realized you'll need a new

strategy to maximize every penny

from your existing resources,

particularly in a climate of

falling prices.

One businessman turns to the other --

GULF BUSINESSMAN (ARABIC).

There are two kinds of people in

the world: those who control

subsurface mineral rights and

those who want to steal from them.

Bryan didn't understand a word.

44 EXT. POOL - DUSK 44

The kids are organizing a game of "shark and minnows." An

OLDER KID explains to Max --

You're the shark and you try to

tag us as we swim across.

Max is uncertain, eyeing the dark water. From somewhere

distant the LONDON PHILHARMONIC begins to play.

OLDER KID (CONT'D)

You jump in and count one, two,

three, then we all try to get to

the other side.

Max stares at the dark water. It's not inviting. Finally,

he jumps.

He hits the water and goes rigid, almost skittering

across the surface, flopping uncontrollably.

45 EXT. ESTATE LAWN - NIGHT 45

Bryan walks back across the lawn when SCREAMS come from

the pool area ahead. Bryan hurries, then runs.

46 EXT. POOL - NIGHT 46

The VOLTAGE is audible as Max rolls onto his back,

floating lifelessly. SECURITY prevent people from diving

in. A bystander yells --

Cut the power! Cut the power!

Bryan enters the area. He sees Julie being restrained.

And a body in the water.

As the estate goes dark, Bryan dives and holds Max,

wading to the side with the lifeless body.

47 EXT. DESOLATE OIL FIELD - DAY 47

A DONKEY TRAIN passes a DERRICK under a gathering sky. On

the back of ONE DONKEY the STINGER CRATE bounces along.

The donkeys move through the Antaean field as lightning

cuts the distant clouds.

48 EXT. RIVERFRONT - PERSIAN GULF - DAY 48

Freight boats and water taxis plow up and down a river,

back and forth, back and forth, as Wasim enters along a

wall in the foreground. He wears his best clothes and

looks freshly scrubbed as he picks his way along.

He ducks down an alley, stops. Nervous, he catches his

reflection in a shard of glass of a boarded-up window.

Abu Khalifa, thank you for this

opportunity. I am a hard worker. I

will not let you down.

49 EXT. RIVERFRONT WAREHOUSE - DAY 49

A scraggly warehouse, the most basic of operations.

WORKERS carry goods in and out.

Wasim walks with ABU KHALIFA, 42, a gruff foreman.

ABU KHALIFA (ARABIC)

Two of my wife's kids got deported

for not having work.

You don't have to pay me. Let me

show you how hard I work. And then

decide whether to pay.

For a moment it seems like this offer may win the day.

I'm sorry. I already have a long

list for that, too.

And if you want to work in this

country, learn how to speak the

language.

Wasim tries and fails to hide his disappointment.

50 EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 50

A mound of dirt under a blanket. A small mound. An

Episcopal Minister saying something soundlessly.

The mourners are Bryan and Julie's age which means they

have small children. Mourners holding children.

Bryan holds Riley and Julie stands beside them. Julie is

weeping. she notices Bryan is completely stone-faced.

Julie watches two BOYS chase each other through the

crowd, playing tag, stifling their laughter.

51 INT. TRAILER - FOREIGN WORKERS COMPOUND - DAY 51

Tight on JOHNNY and PONYBOY just before they run to catch

the boxcar in THE OUTSIDERS.

BOY (O.S.)

Why are they running after him?

WASIM (O.S.)

Maybe he has a knife or committed

a crime or something.

Wasim, Farooq, other men and boys watch a small TV in a

cheap trailer, housing for immigrant labor.

SUPERTITLE: FOREIGN WORKERS COMPOUND - PERSIAN GULF

wasim sits with Farooq watching the film. YUNUS, 6,

watches Wasim, his older brother, with reverence.

They gave us french fries at the

Madrassa.

Wasim's father, Saleem, enters with a few groceries.

Papa, close the door.

His sister has a thing for you.

His sister has a big ass.

Of course, at the Madrassa you

don't have to worry about that.

And lamb. We got skewers of lamb.

I like lamb.

The children's faces are lit by the TV'S glowing light.

53 EXT. GOVERNMENT PLAZA - DAY 53

Against a wall, YOUNG MEN are frisked by police who tap

their legs apart with batons. Above them a watchful

portrait of the Emir, in epic pose, astride a stallion.

A line of Pakistani and Filipino MEN winds out of a

building. People are paranoid. No jokes. Eyes darting.

As more MEN arrive, POLICE in riot gear watch them,

shouting in Arabic into a bullhorn.

Yunus watches Wasim and Saleem. He mimics how his brother

stands. An OLD MAN tries to talk to them.

Hot today. Can't remember the

streets this hot.

Saleem looks around, sees if anyone was listening, then

takes the old man's arm.

You don't want to talk here.

Suddenly, a POLICEMAN shoves Saleem from behind. Saleem

turns to the officer, already apologizing, but Wasim

steps between them. The cop pushes Wasim with his baton.

Tough guy? Is that right, tough

guy? What's your name, tough guy?

Wasim doesn't say anything. Yunus watches his father and

brother. The cop pokes Wasim again with the stick --

What's your name?

Johnny.

The policeman swiftly brings his club down on Wasim's

head, dropping him to his knees. other POLICEMEN close.

Saleem gets in the middle, but is beaten down. Wasim

tries to reach for Yunus who is SCREAMING and hitting at

the policeman's legs. A club comes down on Wasim's head --

54 EXT. PRINCETON UNIVERSITY - DAY 54

Perfect calm at a beautiful, rural Ivy League campus with

STUDENTS strolling between buildings.

55 INT. ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - DAY 55

Tight on note cards of "conversational topics" and

reminders to be "natural." A perfect MOTHER and FATHER

coach their PERFECT NERVOUS DAUGHTER.

I learned the value of diversity

in my time at the Model U.N.

And, across the rich leather and wood anteroom of a

Princeton admissions office, Bob and Robby also wait.

Maybe you'll get made Ambassador

to somewhere cool, like France or

Italy or Ghana. What's your dad

do? He's Ambassador to Ghana.

That's so cool. I know.

Bob looks over at his son like he doesn't really know who

this person is, which he doesn't.

How's your mom?

Great! She's great'.

The Perfect Family glances over at them. After a beat --

Do you know what mom's job is?

she's a secretary.

What did she do when you met her?

She was a secretary.

Robby, are you nervous?

Indignant Robby speaks loudly for The Perfect Family --

I've been airlifted out of foreign

countries and I speak three

languages because I have to.

They'll feel sorry for me.

An ADMISSIONS OFFICER signals to Robby who disappears

through the door.

56 INT. KEBAB RESTAURANT - DAY 56

A college dive restaurant. The workers are all Lebanese

immigrants. Bob and Robby eat at a small table.

I know it's a year away but I'll

have to have a car. A decent car.

Nothing fancy, but it has to run.

So I can get into Boston and New

York. They have a great crew.

That's what they told me. I said,

crew of what? Ha, ha. They said,

rowing. So...if I want to row...

Bob quickly finishes a glass of cheap, white wine.

Robby, you know, I live... Where

do I live? Maryland. I live in

Maryland. Meaning you have

residency there. In Maryland. For

the University. Of Maryland.

Robby liberally uses the hot sauce. Two LEBANESE MEN at

another table nod in approval. Robby fires off Arabic.

Lebanese is like Vanilla. You want

hot, try Pakistan.

The men can't believe this kid speaks Arabic. Robby turns

back to Bob and says what's really on his mind.

I just want a normal senior year.

I want to live in a normal house.

I want Cinemax and prom. You know

what prom is like in Pakistan?

Prom sucks in Pakistan.

Bob looks at his kid with love, the real thing.

Robby, it's complicated. I may

have really screwed up at work.

How?

I was supposed to keep my mouth

shut and didn't.

Robby is disappointed and angry.

What does Mom do again that we

have to live in Islamabad?

She's a secretary.

Robby turns back to the Arab men --

57 EXT. U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - D.C. - DAY 57

58 INT. DONALD FARISH'S OFFICE - DAY 58

expect, talks on his cell phone, feet kicked up on the

desk. Two Assistant U.S. ATTORNEYS stare at Bennett.

FARISH (INTO PHONE)

Hey, how bad is it? Ouch. When a

Volvo dealer says that. Okay,

you're honorable decent guys.

Farish clicks off the cell phone, turns to Bennett.

My wife and our narrow driveway.

How the hell are you?

You know, can't complain.

That's not good, kiddo. That's

suffering quietly. Married? Kids?

Bennett shakes his head. Farish looks him over like a

good diagnostician inspecting a patient. Then --

There is no way a company like

Killeen pulled off a deal like

this without paying somebody off.

Bennett shrugs. Looks at the Assts. They don't smile.

Why don't you tell me what you

have so I can respond?

Farish looks at his guys. They all choke back laughs.

I used to think something was

wrong here. Now, I know

something's wrong here.

He stands, tall, imperious. Walks around his desk.

Perches on the edge, towering over Bennett.

Either you don't find anything

because you don't know how to

look. Or you do and they carve you

out and light you on fire.

(to his guys)

That's gotta be the play, right?

Bennett doesn't say anything. Farish picks up a file,

scans it: Bennett's particulars therein.

You're so under-qualified it's

laughable. Sydney Hewitt's new

boy. How many of those have I

seen? They're all gone; He's still

Sydney Fucking Hewitt.

I guess you guys really have a

handle on the angles.

The U.S. Attorney team shares a moment at his expense.

Let's talk about our old friend

the Holder Memoranda. In charging

a corporation or --

Sentencing a company after a

guilty plea, cooperation will be

factored in, which includes waving

the privileges afforded their

attorneys.

Right... I remember you now.

Strong A in Environmental Law.

(to the Assistants)

He was an easy grader.

Not anymore.

59 INT. SQUASH COURT - DAY 59

The SHARP SOUNDS of SQUASH. Looking through the opaque

square of Plexiglas in the door to a squash court, Sydney

and Bennett grunt and lunge and sweat.

I took a bit of a temperature

reading. The other associates seem

to like you. That's not really a

good sign.

I'm sorry, Sir.

HIGH ANGLE - down to the fishbowl aspect of the court.

Sydney has a very good serve. As they talk he wins three

points in a row, Bennett lunging at the spinning ball.

Sir, I don't want to get ahead of

myself, but Kazakhstan... You got

capitalists with a K --

Point.

Six apiece.

You got banker gangsters,

gangster bankers. The Federal

prosecutor is a good man. Smart.

Inherited a ton of dough --

Point.

Seven.- Six. Already got his mind

made up. Got his teeth in it like

a little terrier.

As Sydney is talking, he wins the point.

Eight - Six. Match point.

I think they've got someone inside

the deal. Somebody they can

squeeze.,

Like an informant?

Yes, Sir. Like an informant. Just

my feeling based on their

overconfidence.

Sydney aces Bennett.

Match!

He turns and holds out his hand.

60 INT. CLUB ROOM - DAY 60

The casual bar of a fancy, D.C. Men's Club. Very old

money. Lots of power. Membership includes one woman, one

Jew, and Vernon Jordan. Bennett and Sydney eat lunch.

If people in oil deals talked to

U.S. Attorneys, there'd be no oil

business.

DEAN WHITING, 60's, congenial, but powerful in build, an

ex-marine, an insider for forty years, wanders over.

Dean, you know Bennett Holiday.

Good to see you again, Sir.

We've been discussing the Connex-

Killeen merger situation.

Will they get approval? Helluva

large company if they do. I mean,

client.

I don't know, Sir. The Tengiz

field, Killeen's largest asset, is

being looked at pretty heavily by

the U.S. Attorney's office.

Sydney Hewitt nods to another club member. Bennett turns

to see DONALD FARISH III joining a far table.

Well, Bennett, as they say in the

bible, there are many, many ways

to light Europe.

61 INT. BEDROOM - WOODMAN HOUSE - NIGHT 61

A light SWITCHES ON.

Bryan and Julie are both awake listening to Riley CRYING

down the hall. It's unnerving, but neither one moves

right away, perhaps hoping he'll fall back asleep.

I wish I could just believe he's

floating around on a cloud or in

the corner watching us.

Julie wants Bryan to comfort her, but he doesn't.

That minister eulogizing our child

made me sick. How do you eulogize

a child? He was great at playing.

He loved popsicles.

She rolls into him and he holds her, but he's staring at

the ceiling as the child's cries echo down the hallway.

62 INT. RILEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 62

Bryan opens the door to his son's bedroom. Riley is

standing in his crib, crying inconsolably.

(his voice catching)

I want to look out the window.

He holds up his arms for his father who lifts him. They

walk to the window. Riley stops crying instantly, as

children will, and shimmies out of his dad's arms.

At the window, they stand together, silhouetted against

the dark night and distant street light.

63 INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 63

Bob and Fred Franks walk down an institutional white

corridor.

Nothing like the straight poop to

wake 'em up on the 7th floor. And

the Amiri brothers. Darn nice

work. Darn nice. How're you

finding everything? Must be a

little slow-paced, a little dull?

Intelligence work isn't training

seminars and little gold stars for

attendance.

What do you think intelligence

work is, Bob?

They turn a corner which gives way to another

institutional white corridor.

It's two people in a room and one

of them is asking a favor that's a

capital crime in every country on

earth. A hanging crime.

Another corner. Another white hallway.

No, Bob. It's assessing the

information gathered from that

favor and balancing it against all

the other information gathered

from all the other favors.

Franks smiles. Opens a door to a white, windowless room.

64 INT. WHITE, WINDOWLESS TASK FORCE ROOM - DAY 64

It's so white it's hard to see the lines of anything.

PEOPLE around a conference table. DIVISION CHIEF, a woman

in her 40's, patrician and smooth, at the head. Easels

with pictures: Prince Nasir, MSA - the Egyptian With Blue

Eyes. The EGYPT CHIEF is talking. Bob sits.

Welcome, Bob. Good news. We have

something for you, something we

think you'll like, that makes use

of your specific skill set.

EGYPT BUREAU CHIEF

. In the past he had been

harbored as a guest of the royal

family.

A photo of the dedication of a new Water Ministry

Administration Building. See Nasir and Meshal and, in the

background, the Egyptian with blue eyes.

You know this guy?

The Division Chief points to Prince Nasir on a street.

Prince Nasir Al-Subaai.

His money's in a lot of dark

corners, paying for weapons that

could be used against the USA.

Franks slides Bob a thick file on Prince Nasir Al-Subaai.

Paperwork on the polygraphs. Wire

transfers to Qaeda fronts. Letters

instructing his Water Ministry to

employ Mohammed Sheik Agiza, the

guy who has your missile.

He's traveling to Beirut. You have

some experience in Beirut, don't

you, Bob?

It's a great city.

Everybody chuckles.

This is a bad guy and we need him

off the table. Who knows, maybe

you'll even find your blue-eyed

Egyptian.

I gotta get going a little early,

my daughter's soccer tournament.

The Division chief passes behind Bob's chair --

Did you see my report on the

missile? I reset guidance to blow

ten feet off the ground --

Bob, you just don't get it. Nobody

wants to hear about a missing

missile, not right now. Besides,

the ragheads'll never be able to

figure out how it works.

She leans down, taps the Nasir file, whispers.

DIVISION CHIEF (CONT'D)

This is top of The Director's

list. Hit a walk-off home run and

you'll get any desk you want.

65 INT. T.J. O'TOOLE'S - DAY 65

Happy hour at a mall pub. Bob and STANLEY "STAN" GOFF,

50's, moustache, glasses, windbreaker, ex-number three in

CIA, smarter than he looks, drink beer and watch TV.

How's Margaret? Divorced yet?

We're not getting divorced.

Stan looks at him like he's kidding himself.

I'm telling you, Bobby my boy,

number three is the charm.

What about this C.L.Z. - Committee

to Liberate Iran?

Patriotic men donating their time,

whose only goals are the full

employment-and personal safety of

every American.

Bob glances sideways at him.

In that order.

My goal was always to own a bar in

Macau, before Macau got ruined

like everywhere else.

There's nowhere left in the world

to own a real bar, Bobby my boy,

but I'll tell you one thing, you

could quit right now, I'll get you

hired back tomorrow as a. private

consultant. You'll be doing the

exact same job, sitting in the

exact same office, only at double

the salary.

I'm not doing anything sitting in

that office. That's the problem.

(to the Bartender)

Bourbon rocks --

Bob glances up at the TV. ON TV: financial news, BRYAN

WOODMAN in front of the trading floor at his company.

BRYAN (ON TV)

If on Monday Khatami refuses the

I.A.E.A. inspectors, look for

crude prices to spike yet again.

Push into the television --

66 INT. MINI-STUDIO - DAY 66

Bryan under the lights, listening. on closer inspection

he looks tired and his tie is loosened.

It's not like it's any secret Iran

will refuse the snap inspections.

(after a pause)

okay. Thank you, Rebecca.

Bryan nods and the lights go off on Bryan. He stares --

BOSS (O.S.)

Go home.

It was a stupid question, Henry.

VINCENT (O.S.)

The Prince's man called again.

I'm just telling him.

67 EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - NIGHT 67

Bob and Stan drunkenly exit T.J. O'Toole's into the

standard suburban mall parking lot. There is a bright

multiplex sign. FAMILIES and TEENAGERS stroll.

I like consulting. No, I love it.

Love it. And I'll say this for it,

private business is efficient.

There I said it. Fucking cliche.

And the CIA is like what, a thirty

billion a year business. so

anybody wants to sell anything, a

pencil, a computer, they gotta

interface through a security

clearance -- don't give me shit --

I got two kids in college and

we're doing our kitchen.

Stan, I got a chance to go back. I

want to go back. Is it safe for

me?

You talking about with your wife

or the wackos?

Bob doesn't say anything. He looks away.

Clear it with Hezbollah... shit,

I'm late to pick up Sue.

Stan hits his remote lock and leaves Bob standing there.

Wide shot of Bob alone in the mall lot gently sloping to

IKEA cobalt blue in the distance.

68 EXT. CAMPFIRE - NIGHT 68

The bolt action of a gleaming hunting rifle. Danny D.,

the "oilman" whose Congressional testimony was broadcast

on CSPAN, sights a weapon.

DANNY D.

Is the Caspian a lake or a sea?

Sea. Caspian Sea. Like seashore.

DANNY D.

Looks like Lake Michigan. Size of

Lake Michigan. The Red Sea opens

into the Indian Ocean --

Jimmy Pope and OTHER HUNTERS drink and clean thirty ought

sixes, their faces lit by firelight.

Caspian's surrounded. Like a pond.

Caspian pond.

DANNY D.

France and Russia want it to be a

pond, that's for damn sure. The

Caspian, I mean. In some court

somewhere right now.

Moot point, hopefully.

An animal carcass rotates on a spit over the fire.

Mr. Janus, Chairman of Connex, and

Dean Whiting, founding partner of

your firm, are proud members of

the Committee to Liberate Iran.

Danny D. here is, too.

DANNY D.

D. is for Dalton. I was on the

other side of the Tengiz deal.

The other side?

El Presidente Nazerbayev's best

pal in the whole world.

DANNY D.

It's a beautiful field. Goddamn,

is it a beautiful field.

Danny hands a clean, checked rifle to Bennett.

DANNY D. (CONT'D)

I guarantee we'll let the air out

of some tomorrow.

69 EXT. 777 RANCH - HONDO, TEXAS - DAY 69

A herd of zebra trots across a field and distant GUNSHOTS

crack through the pine forest. This is a private game

preserve, 10,000 acres of "conservation."

A large sign shows a buck in cross-hairs and `777 Ranch -

Experience Wildlife from Four Continents in Texas."

DANNY D. (O.S.)

I believe in getting inside their

personal space. So it's you and

him and nothing else. That's

eighteen yards for a tiger or

rhino...

Bennett and Jimmy ride in the back of a "wagon," a

modified shooting platform pulled behind a Jeep.

Six billion barrels of oil, a

billion of natural gas liquid,

fourteen trillion cubic feet of

Danny D.'s conversation floats up from a lower platform.

DANNY D. (O.S.)

Man, I mean to tell you, by the

end, you got blood of lions,

baboons, rhinos on your dungarees.

Bennett, wearing an orange vest over his casual clothes,

seems uneasy. Jimmy yells down to his friend.

That's Kenya, Danny, not one of

these turkey shoots.

DANNY D.

Bred animals kill, too, Jimmy.

Jimmy continues his thought to Bennett.

Fuck Connex. Fucking slant-

drillers. Don't know why I ever

sold 'em my company in the first

place. Here, take your pick.

He hands Bennett a thick catalogue.

ANGLE ON CATALOGUE: Pages of animals you can shoot with

pictures and description.

ADDAX -- "this large African antelope is white with a

gray masked face. It's horns corkscrew up making multiple

twists in both sexes. Large males can weigh 275 lbs. Both

males and females make handsome trophies.

The Tengiz is the Holy Grail. You

get into that stream, nobody in

your family will ever have to

clean a toilet again.

I have a feeling this U.S.

Attorney has a source.

Like somebody who didn't get into

Tengiz and is pissed off about it.

Any idea who that might be?

Jimmy looks at Bennett like he was just born.

How 'bout every other oil company

in the world.

(re: the catalogue)

What's your fancy?

Bennett randomly picks an animal from the list.

The Kudu. Good choice.

(calling to driver)

Floyd. Kudu.

Bennett sees in the distance "Beater Boys," Mexican men

in orange jackets, flushing quail for a party of hunters.

IN THE DISTANCE a massive Kudu, tame as a house cat,

unafraid of guns or people, stands near a feeder.

DANNY (O.S.)

Kudu. Big bull.

Bennett hesitates. Jimmy looks at him.

I'm not sure --

Jesus H. Christ. Kudu is rare. Get

that gun up.

Bennett lifts the rifle. THROUGH THE CROSS-HAIRS the Kudu

is gigantic and unaware of the hunters.

He's got 52 inch horns. Maybe 54.

The Kudu looks at Bennett. An uncomfortable beat --

JIMMY (O.S.)

Come on, son. He won't wait all

day.

Finally Bennett PULLS THE TRIGGER. The gun is LOUD. He

stares, then slowly pulls back from the scope.

DANNY D. (O.S.)

Lung shot. He's gonna run a bit.

72 EXT. THICKET - 777 RANCH - DAY 72

The sound of their feet - tromp, tromp, tromp - as Jimmy

and Bennett move through dense thicket looking for the

wounded animal.

My granddaddy was a wildcatter.

Same with my daddy. That's how I

got my start. Luck and hard work.

Nobody handed me shit. Now, I got

libraries and parks named after

me. And I'll probably ruin the

grand-kids. You wearing a wire,

Bennett?

No.

Mind if I pat you down?

Jimmy checks for a recording device. He's clean.

We all tell ourselves little

stories, Bennett. Sometimes I'm

the flame burning in the Jefferson

Memorial. Other times I'm a guy

with his nose pressed up against

the windows of a whorehouse --

Suddenly there's a RUSTLING as a large animal passes

somewhere close. Bennett freezes. Jimmy looks at him.

Boar.

This deal snapped the lights on in

the kitchen and the rodents all

scurried. Now you're standing

there under the lights trying to

point to where they all went.

Don't be the one caught out in the

kitchen.

Jimmy unslings his rifle and motions to where, obscured

in the thicket, a pair of intense dying eyes stares back.

What'd your daddy do, Bennett?

73 INT. TAXI - BEIRUT - DAY 73

Bob rides in a taxi through the streets of Beirut, a city

that was once the Paris of the Middle-East: dust, noise,

construction cranes, and knock-off designer clothes.

SUPERTITLE: BEIRUT, LEBANON

They turn off the wide airport road into a warren of

narrow streets. The cab stops and the driver turns --

Southern Suburbs.

Bob happily waves him on. Streets narrow. People stare.

How can you tell if you're talking

to a Shiite or a Sunni Muslim.

If you feel like Shee-iteing your

pants you know.

The driver glances at Bob in the rearview.

OUTSIDE a MAN has a gun stuck in his waistband. Another

MAN on a roof has a rifle. A paranoid, guarded place.

They turn and suddenly a metal gate is across the road.

MEN pour out around the car. Flannel shirts, olive drab

army shirts, beards, no beards, guns in waistbands.

Bob's door is opened and he is yanked from the cab.

I'm here to see Said Hashimi.

They roughly frisk Bob.

Hashimi. Said Hashimi.

They take his pen, remove his belt, check his passport:

it's Canadian. Bob's picture. The name is SEYMOUR RISEN.

They check his license: the name is SEYMOUR RISEN.

Bob is pushed into another vehicle. Someone pulls bills

from Bob's wallet and flips them to the cabbie.

The gate rises. The car pulls away. The gate drops. The

cabbie is left standing there holding the bills.

74 INT. ANTERIOR ROOM - HEZBOLLAH COMPLEX - DAY 74

1970's Arab architecture. Large room. Wide doorway. Wide

hallway. Wide stairs. No direct sunlight or sight-lines.

LOCAL FARMERS, WORKERS wait. Flannel crosses to Olive

Drab. Both have guns in their waistbands. They talk

quietly, then laugh.

Bob sits on a low couch. Opaque glass separates two rooms

and shadows move behind it. SOMEONE offers Bob hot tea.

A door opens and a man signals for Bob, who gets up,

holding his pants.

75 INT. HASHIMI'S ROOM - DAY 75

Dim light. An air-conditioner hums in the wall. SAID

HOSSEIN HASHIMI, 80's, Tolstoyan grey beard, turban,

rheumy eyes, the spiritual leader of the Hezbollah, sits

in a high-back chair in a corner.

Bob sits in a high-back chair near Hashimi. The young men

revere Hashimi and guard him carefully.

I have a good feeling about

American people, Bob. A good

people. A welcoming people. There

U.S. I have over 300,000 followers

in Detroit alone.

Thank you for this audience. I

have a business proposal for

Mussawi. One that benefits

everyone.

Hashimi nods magisterially.

Mussawi is an energetic young man.

Your Arabic is very good.

The power CUTS OUT. The air-conditioner SLOWLY DIES OUT.

It's near dark in the room. The guards move nervously

toward Bob and Said Hashimi.

I thought it would also be prudent

to say, I have no interest in

Hezbollah. This is business and it

doesn't concern Hezbollah.

In the distance a dog barks and chickens cluck. After a

beat, Hashimi turns his rheumy eyes on Bob.

If what you say is true, consider

yourself welcome in Lebanon.

The generator comes on with a distant WHIR. The lights

come on. A man crosses to the air-conditioner, reaches up

and trips the circuit breaker, bringing it back to life.

76 INT. GROTTO - BEIRUT - DAY 76

An ancient grotto where the early Christians used to

hide, be discovered, and executed. A tourist attraction,

it's a cool, vast, dimly lit, subterranean space.

Bob reads a description of a stalactite formation. He is

alone, waiting for someone. The grotto ECHOES.

In the distance, TWO ARAB SCHOOL CHILDREN, playing with

the echoes, do a little dance step and rap out, in broken

English, a well-known American SONG.

I gotta ask you one question. Amin

Shehab... car accident?

Bob turns to look at MUSSAWI, 30's, closely-shaved bullet

head, seemingly good-natured, a businessman, he speaks

English with a New Jersey accent.

Yeah, sure. Only one of them was

propelled by gas and the other by

C-4.

The papers said heart attack.

Bob nods pleasantly.

He saw an engine coming at him at

27,000 feet per second and his

heart stopped.

This settles a beat.

Rumors of Bob, but never Bob. It

is Bob, right? What is it you tell

people you do these days, Bob?

I'm between State Department and

Defense.

Bob surreptitiously looks around to see if Mussawi is

alone. It's clear Bob makes him nervous as well.

Just me, buddy, as requested.

Bob reaches inside his jacket. Mussawi reaches in his.

I'm getting some information,

Jimmy.

My name is Mussawi.

Bob hands a picture to Mussawi.

Okay, Jimmy.

Mussawi glances down at the picture. It surprises him.

ANGLE on the picture of PRINCE NASIR crossing a street.

Bob has a small pad on which he scribbles a dollar

figure. Mussawi glances at the number. He's impressed.

He's traveling to Beirut. It's

dangerous to travel. He'll

disappear.

I want you to drug him, put him in

the front of a car and run a truck

into it at fifty miles an hour.

It's good to have you back in

town, Bob.

Mussawi turns and walks away, singing some familiar song.

77 EXT. CITY - PERSIAN GULF - DAY 77

Drifting above tall glass buildings. Construction cranes

everywhere.

78 INT. SHANGRI-LA HOTEL ROOM - DAY 78

Tall glass buildings rise out of the white desert. Pan

and find Bryan Woodman staring out the window. He's on

his cell phone.

BRYAN (INTO PHONE)

There's an arrow on the ceiling

pointing the direction of Mecca.

The Bin Laden group air-

conditioned Mecca. One of their

big projects. They made billions

and billions.

No response on the phone.

Women are covered head-to-foot

walking five feet behind the men.

It's humid. 125 degrees and humid.

I walked out of the airport and it

was like a wall fell on me. All

the Arabs in white sheets. It

says, it's hot and I don't have to

work. I'd like to see them play

baseball dressed like this.

He dwindles away. silence on the other end of the phone.

Fine. I'm fine.

No, I'm fine.

How are you?

More silence. He looks down at the swimming pool of the

luxury hotel, a peaceful blue aberration in the

desiccated landscape.

79 INT. LOBBY - SHANGRI-LA HOTEL - DAY 79

white separates from a group and ushers him outside.

80 EXT. DESERT DRIVE - DAY 80

Tapioca dunes drift away for miles. An Oryx nests with

two of its young. A Range Rover splits the dunes.

81 EXT. NASIR'S DESERT HOUSE - DAY 81

On the deck of an elegant desert house composed mainly of

tents and sails a SUPPLICANT beseeches a favor from

Prince Nasir who reads a newspaper and watches TV.

Your generosity is bigger than a

mountain that shades us from the

burning sun. I humbly ask for my

citizenship expiry date to be

extended.

The Prince nods his assent. Across the deck Bryan sits

with the PRINCESS AL-SUBAAI, 30, a Westernized young

woman with dignity beyond her years.

They watch as Nasir is served coffee by SERVANTS who make

sure not to block his view of the financial news. The

supplicants stare at the Princess.

They hate me being here, dressed

like this. My husband tells them,

she's a medical doctor, she'll

examine your children, but only

without a veil.

A SECRETARY checks a list and ushers another supplicant

forward.

The money given for my children's

education was spent on farming and

camels, but your benevolence is

like the shade of palm trees in an

oasis.

Nasir nods then makes his way over. Bryan watches the

princess smile. Her husband kisses her cheek. Nasir sits.

My father has ordered the Marbella

estate to be razed.

There will be a park. To lose a

first born son...

Nasir doesn't know what to say.

We're very sorry for your loss.

A house main was run in the wrong

place. The covering for the wiring

had deteriorated.

Bryan just stares at him.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

You're very angry. I understand.

You can't possibly understand.

82 EXT. DESERT RUINS - DAY 82

Tight on a falcon's face. Heat ripples across flat, white

desert. It's hallucinogenic.

An ancestor of mine owned this

bird's ancestor before Christ was

born.

The falcon catches an updraft and rises effortlessly.

Six more North Field blocks will

be available for development. We

would like to offer your firm the

right to represent them.

Six blocks. Which phase?

Phase three.

Twenty-seven, twenty-eight million

cubic meters per day. We'll be in

the stream for what, ten one

hundredths of a cent, which is,

roughly... Seventy-five million

dollars.

Nasir nods.

Great. That's great. Seventy-five

million dollars...

How much for my other kid?

Prince Nasir stares at Bryan.

If I were your economic advisor

I'd tell you it's not the dumbest

thing you've ever done, but it'll

probably be the dumbest thing you

do today. Probably.

But why would you need an economic

advisor? Twenty years ago you had

the highest GNP in the world and

now you're tied with Paraguay.

Your second biggest export is

second-hand goods. Followed by

dates on which you lose five cents

a pound.

You want to know what the business

world thinks of you. They think a

hundred years ago you were

chopping each other's heads off in

the desert and that's exactly

where you'll be in another

hundred. So, yes, on behalf of my

firm, I accept your money...

Okay, fine. I'll have the money

forwarded to your firm

immediately.

And I'll give you another hundred

million for the other kid.

They look at each other.

OK. So now that you're my economic

advisor; tell me something I

haven't heard.

Bryan stares a beat, thinking.

Okay. You want an idea, here's an

idea.

He draws in the sand: he draws Nasir's kingdom, the

Persian Gulf, Iran. Turkey. And Europe.

Your kingdom is here. The North

Field is here. Europe is here.

Because of trade restrictions and

outdated alliances, you've been

selling your gas for peanuts,

loading it on ships, and waving as

it sails away.

(re: the stick)

But, pretend for a second this is

excess Iranian pipeline capacity.

He lays the stick across the circles in the sand like an

overland pipe running to Europe.

Here is your route. Overland.

Through Iran. You commoditize it,

you control it, you take it right

to the front door of every home in

Europe. Your profit just went up

by a factor of three, possibly

four. I think that's a pretty good

idea.

Overhead the falcons spiral higher and higher, chasing.

each other in the sky. The rising MURMUR of AMENS --

83 INT. SUBURBAN MEGA CHURCH - DAY 83

A cavernous mega church, a religious Wal-Mart with 8500

worshippers in stadium seating. REVERAND STEWART, 30's,

intelligent and sincere, wears a headset --

And when Jesus had been Baptized,

just as he came up from the water,

suddenly the heavens were opened

and he saw the Spirit of God

descending like a dove and

alighting on him. And a voice from

heaven said, "This is my Son, the

Beloved, with whom I am well

pleased." Let us pray: 0 God, open

our hearts to your word and open

your word to our hearts. Amen.

AMENS. Danny Dalton, his WIFE and CHILDREN sit in good

seats up front. Danny has a flag pin on his lapel.

REVERAND STEWART (CONT'D)

This is the third in our four week

series on Luke 2:52. And Jesus

continued to grow in wisdom,

stature, and in the love of God

and those who knew him. The task

is NOT getting more of God, but

letting God get MORE of us.

High above the pulpit, dead center of the auditorium is a

giant American flag waving under the cross.

84 INT. MOSQUE - PERSIAN GULF - DAY 84

A long narrow mosque packed with men kneeling shoulder to

shoulder CHANTING PRAYERS. Most of them are under thirty.

Their movements are unified and ecstatic.

THE CLERIC (V.0.)

They will try to disguise the

difference, to make Muslims who

speak about religion appear to be

fanatics or backward people.

85 INT. MADRASSA - DAY 85

Even smaller boys at smaller desks.

86 INT. SMALL ROOM - MADRASSA - DAY 86

A circle of TEENAGERS, round-shouldered, melancholy,

including Farooq and Wasim, sit at a table eating lamb

and french fries.

THE CLERIC (V.0.)

They will tell us the dispute is

over economic resources or

military domination and if we

believe that we play right into

their hands, with only ourselves

to blame.

There is a remarkable contrast between the setting at the

government barracks (sterile, poor) and the Mosque (warm,

rich). The teenagers wear serious expressions and

try/fail to be respectful as they gorge.

THE CLERIC (CONT'D)

No. The divide between human

nature and modern life cannot be

bridged by free trade. No. It

cannot be cured with deregulation,

privatization, openness or lower

taxes. No.

THE CLERIC, 40, is a serene man whose beard and glasses

make him appear older than his age. Wasim watches as he

talks in hypnotic cadence, making eye contact with each

boy in turn.

THE CLERIC (CONT'D)

The pain of living in the modern

world will never be solved by a

liberal society.

The Cleric's sympathetic gaze falls on Wasim who is

bruised with black eyes from his beating.

THE CLERIC (CONT'D)

Liberal societies have failed.

Christian theology has failed. The

West has failed.

He serves more lamb and vegetables to Wasim's plate.

Wasim begins hungrily eating again.

87 EXT. MADRASSA COMMUNAL FARM - DAY 87

Boys pull a plow in the fields. The sound of BEES.

THE CLERIC (V.0.)

The divine and the worldly are but

a single concept and that concept

is Koran.

They walk past bee hives spaced across the desert. Farooq

and Wasim and two OTHERS are with him.

THE CLERIC (CONT'D)

No separation of religion and

state - Koran. Instead of Kings

legislating and slaves obeying -

Koran.

They stand in a corn field growing in the desert. The

boys are impressed with themselves as only young,

uneducated men can be when discussing philosophy and

politics with a learned man.

THE CLERIC (CONT'D)

The true confrontation is over

Islam. They must eradicate Islam

in order to rescue their own

doctrine from extinction. True

Islam will end up partial Islam.

And partial Islam cannot exist.

The cleric bends down to pull a weed.

THE CLERIC (CONT'D)

Do you believe me when I tell you

this?

Wasim watches Farooq nod emphatically. They are full and

The Cleric seems to know everything in the world.

The Cleric surveys the boys with quiet exaltation, his

tenderness and compassion begins to affect Wasim.

THE CLERIC (CONT'D)

Now, who would like sweets before

prayer?

89 EXT. GOVERNMENT HALL - BEIRUT - DAY 89

A banner reads: UNION OF ARAB NATIONS - BEIRUT, LEBANON

Wide steps in a wide plaza. A CROWD watches as IMPORTANT

MEN, including Prince Nasir, sweep down the marble stairs

to microphones. The PRESS snaps photos.

We begin the process of empowering

a new generation of Arabs with the

skills and training necessary to

succeed globally...

Bryan claps dutifully. But he's on the phone, the cord

dangling from ear to Blackberry which reads "work."

BRYAN (INTO PHONE)

He invited me to come with him. I

think he thinks he's somekindof

reformer. He's got a nice jet.

Okay, very nice. Hold on a sec --

He glances at the Blackberry screen. Another call -- JULIE

HOME. He hits "IGNORE CALL."

Julie's fine with it.

our 13 point document is an

agreement on principles calling

for greater political freedom,

good governance and transparency,

advanced civil liberties and human

rights, women's rights, and

judicial reforms.

Bryan's phone vibrates again - JULIE HOME. He turns the

phone off.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

However, unlike Washington's

Greater Middle East Initiative, we

respect each country's right to

move at its own pace.

APPLAUSE. One leader after another solemnly shake hands

with Nasir as a photographer records the moment.

ANGLE - A WEATHERED MAN

In the crowd with a student's backpack at his feet.

PRINCE NASIR moves down the steps. Bryan and the rest of

his entourage join him heading toward black limousines.

WEATHERED MAN picks up his pack, moves around the crowd,

slips past a barrier.

shake your hand.

Stop. Don't move --

WEATHERED MAN wears a serious expression heading straight

for Nasir who turns and sees him --

WEATHERED MAN (ARABIC)

You are good man. Like Sadat, you

will shake my hand. Good man.

The guards are SCREAMING. People start scattering --

The weathered man is reaching in his backpack --

BODYGUARDS grab Nasir, hustling him toward a limo. Bryan

lunging after them --

The weathered man is tackled and pummeled.

The limos race away, sirens blaring, flags flying.

The weathered man is held and searched. They find pens

and pads. His spilled bag held books.

90 INT. LIMOUSINE - DAY 90

Nasir and Bryan in a stretch with bodyguards as they race

away with sirens blaring and flags flying.

Bryan is pale. He watches Prince Nasir settle back into

his seat. An AIDE fires Arabic at him.

Your highness, do you still want

to meet and greet?

PRINCE NASIR (ARABIC)

Everything as scheduled.

Nasir looks out the window. He switches to English for

Bryan but is speaking more to himself.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

Respect the right to move at their

own pace. Respect the right to do

nothing is more like it. Except

condemn Israel and strengthen the

conservative religious movements.

91 INT. ALBERGO LOBBY - DAY 91

92 INT. ELEVATOR - ALBERGO - DAY .92

The elevator TONES at another floor. The elevator stops,

the door opens and BOB stands there.

American?

Canadian.

Nasir motions for them to squeeze together for Bob. The

gate closes. The lift creaks and begins to rise.

Nasir is looking at Bob.

Don't see many Occidentals these

days.

Bob doesn't say anything.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

It's too bad.

Bob nods again. As the elevator moves higher more light

floods in through the wire mesh. Bob's eyes meet Nasir's.

93 EXT. ROOFTOP GARDEN - ALBERGO - DAY 93

Prince Nasir, Bryan, and bodyguards sit with a larger

party across the rooftop garden.

Bob sits by himself eating a sandwich. From below there

is the distant THUMPING of a car stereo.

A little bird dances along the railing watching for

crumbs. All of Beirut is spread out below.

PUSH past the bird over the railing where seven floors

below a Toyota Land Cruiser pulls around the hotel.

94 INT. ALBERGO LOBBY - DAY 94

An EMPLOYEE approaches another EMPLOYEE at the desk and

furtively pulls her away.

ANGLE THROUGH A DOOR to the front of the hotel, which is

now completely empty, except for the Toyota Land Cruiser

with dark tinted windows and five antennae. The stereo is

thumping some odd AMERICAN SONG.

95 EXT. ROOFTOP GARDEN - DAY 95

Bob puts down bills for his check. The waiter is nowhere

to be seen. There's no one behind the bar. No one at the

waiter's station.

Bob glances over at Prince Nasir who is laughing at

something in the Wall Street Journal.

96 INT. ALBERGO LOBBY - DAY 96

Shots of the empty lobby, someone DINGING the bell.

Everyone has disappeared.

97 INT. ALBERGO HALLWAY - DAY 97

Bob outside his hotel room door. The hallway is empty.

98 INT. BOB'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY 98

Bob enters his room, chaining the door. He turns and

THREE MEN with guns are standing there.

He's slammed against the door. Duct tape around his

mouth, his arms taped back, his legs wrapped. A black

duffel bag goes over him, swallowing the light.

99 EXT. LAND CRUISER - DAY 99

The duffle is heaved into the back of the Land Cruiser

with a THUD. The trunk gate is slammed --

MATCH CUT TO:

100 EXT. SMALL WAREHOUSE - DAY 100

The doors of a UPS truck open. Boxes loaded on a dolly.

Follow the dolly into --

101 INT. SMALL WAREHOUSE - DAY 101

A small warehouse. Roll past a few desks, some lamps. The

dolly stops. Tilt up to find --

Bennett finishing a file and starting another.

And beyond, a DOZEN PARALEGALS and the mountain of boxes

holding 1.3 million pages of documents.

Bennett's phone VIBRATES loudly. He checks the number.

102 INT. BAR - DAY 102

Tight on a hand written "business" card that says, "If

you find me, call my son, Bennett Jr., at this number."

Bennett takes the card from a bartender and finds his

father slumped in the corner of a seedy bar.

103 INT. BARE BULB APARTMENT - DAY 103

A rundown kitchen. The windows are sealed. In another

room three MEN eat lunch, sharing a two liter bottle of

Mecca Cola, gossiping in Arabic.

On a wooden table is a generator, a homemade shocking

device the size of masonry brick with a long wire to the

generator, and a thick pair of rubber gloves.

Bob is duct-taped tightly to a chair. His face is

battered. His mouth is cracked. He's severely dehydrated.

His hands and feet are dark purple and swollen.

A door opens. FOOTSTEPS. Mussawi's VOICE --

MUSSAWI (O.S.)

Bob, what do you know about

torture methods used by the

Chinese on the Falun Gong? Number

one method? What's your guess?

Water dungeon? Did-you guess water

dungeon? Impractical here.

Bob's POV of Mussawi crossing to the generator. He uses

the hand crank, which makes a grinding SOUND.

Number two method? Number two:

twisting arm, putting face in

feces. Not interested in two.

Number three? Number three they

call pulling nails from fingers.

What do you think, Bob? Does

Number three sound good to you?

He lets go of the generator and picks up an evil-looking

pair of pliers the size of bolt-cutters. Bob's POV over

his own hands as Mussawi approaches.

The purpose is to get them to

recant their beliefs.

Mussawi circles behind Bob who tries to speak but his

throat is too dry. Other MEN hold the chair steady.

What if I had to get you to'

recant? That would be difficult,

right? Because if you have no

beliefs to recant, then what?

Bob wiggles his hands as if they could escape. SOMEONE

mashes Bob's right hand flat, splaying the fingers.

You're fucked is what.

The pliers fix on the nail of his pinkie.

Bob, you're gonna give me the name

of every person who has taken

money from you.

Bob stares at him. Says nothing.

Slowly Mussawi pulls with the pliers. Bob's eyes half-

close. Mussawi jerks away. There's a fingernail in the

pliers. Mussawi retches.

Ugh. That's disgusting.

Bob is dazed. They throw water in his face.

Come on, Bob. Help me out here.

As water drips down Bob's face he holds his tongue out

and drinks. His voice returns.

Jimmy, you're not one of these

Koran thumpers.

The pliers attach to another nail.

The name is Mussawi.

TIGHT ON the pliers and nail as, ever so slowly, it is

ripped from Bob's hand.

104 ANGLE - LATER 104

hands in the foreground -- ALL THE NAILS ARE GONE.

Mussawi leans in tight, furious.

You fucking fuck, fucking fuck

stupid fuck, what the fuck. This

is war you fuck. You're a

P.O.fuckingW. Give me the fucking

names.

From Bob's POV Mussawi loses his shit. He starts

battering Bob, blood flying in ropes, the chair sliding

across the floor. The men watch without expression.

The force of a blow knocks the chair over and Bob's POV

is tilted against the floor. He hears his HEART and

ragged BREATH.

From this angle, he sees Mussawi cross to the table where

he picks up a handsaw.

MUSSAWI (ARABIC) (CONT'D)

I'm cutting his fucking head off.

His feet approaching Bob. Then a door slamming open. And

more feet, sandaled, in jalabas.

Bob's POV of HASHIMI'S MEN entering the room. They SHOUT.

HASHIMI'S MEN (ARABIC)

The said is very angry with you,

Mussawi. The Said keeps his word.

You're our guest, too, Mussawi.

105 ANGLE -- LATER 105

An empty Mecca Cola plastic bottles and other refuse,

then Bob, freed from the tape, appearing to be dead.

His eye-lids flutter ever so slightly. He twitches. Jerks

into consciousness. His eyes fix on a postcard leaning

against a cola bottle.

His POV of the picture on the card: an orphanage with

Said Hashimi's picture inlaid. And, written on the card:

CONSIDER A DONATION ON YOUR WAY OUT OF BEIRUT.

106 EXT. RIVERFRONT - PERSIAN GULF - DAY 106

THE STINGER CRATE

is passed from one ancient vessel to another as we slowly

pull back to reveal hundreds of boats in a beehive of

unregulated trade.

107 A FUEL TRUCK 107

rolls up next to a private jet. The fuel begins to tick,

thousands of dollars spinning by on the pump.

Bryan and Prince Nasir and others pass by and climb the

steps to the plane -

108 A HOSPITAL ROOM 108

Bob in a six bed room. Nobody visiting. No cards or

flowers. His hands are bandaged.

109 A MASS OF BODIES 109

filling a street and intersection, thousands of Muslims

praying, genuflecting, as far as the eye can see.

Farooq and Wasim among the praying men. They genuflect --

MATCH CUT TO:

110 INT. SMALL WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 110

Bennett sprawled over his desk, asleep. It's night.

There's no telling how long these guys have been here.

A paralegal, holding a piece of paper, wakes him.

I found this. wire transfer.

Bennett snaps awake. He looks at the document.

Russian. I don't read Russian. Get

it translated.

Man, I was dreaming about

something good, too.

111 ANGLE - LATER 111

Bennett wanders over to the desk of another PARALEGAL. On

one side there's a big stack of a papers he's moving to

another stack. In the corner of the desk is a tiny stack.

What are these?

Orphans. Stuff that doesn't make

any sense.

Bennett idly fingers a piece of paper - a receipt.

Oh, that one's kind of

interesting. The Lily School.

A boarding school in Switzerland.

Paid by wire transfer.

Bennett scans the paper, then turns to the room.

Everybody stop what you're doing.

They look up, bleary.

We're starting again. I want you

to ignore any document that

doesn't pertain to VIDAK LIMITED.

V.I.D.A.K.

Everyone groans. Someone tosses a file in the air.

Bennett goes to his desk, looks up a number, dials the

number. A voice answers in RUSSIAN.

BENNETT (INTO PHONE) (CONT'D)

Hello... Hello. English?

(to the room)

Does anyone here speak Russian?

The paralegals just stare. Someone in the back shouts --

Yeah... Fuck you.

112 EXT. THE SONG OF ROLAND - NIGHT 112

The fantail of Prince Meshal's yacht, SONG OF ROLAND, one

of many beautiful boats, anchored off Juan Les Pins.

A dinner party in progress. The tinkle of crystal and

music. Candles flicker. Glowing people.

113 INT. PRIVATE SALON - NIGHT 113

Cognac swirls. A gold cigar cutter slices off the tip.

Dean Whiting, Meshal, and REZA BARHANI, a middle-man,

light expensive cigars in a book-lined study on the boat.

Capitalism cannot exist without

waste.

On the walls pictures of Meshal as a child with Reagan,

Qaddafi. As a teenager with Clinton, King Fahd,

Mitterrand, Chernomyrdin.

REZA BARHANI (CONT'D)

We should write thank you notes to

Mr. Whiting and. the USA for

producing one quarter of the

world's garbage and one quarter of

the demand.

You're certainly welcome. Ha, ha.

Our pleasure, really.

Bonhomie galore. But Meshal is either wary or stupid or

both. Reza points to a glass case where a huge leather-

bound book is displayed.

Prince, that is a rare treasure.

The First Arab edition of Dr.

Johnson's dictionary.

Meshal stares. It's his, but means nothing to him.

Prince, is there anything we can

do for you?

The Prince thinks about this for a beat.

Americans are very happy to drill

holes in other people's countries.

I've heard of you. The cat's paw

of the Saudi Princes.

Whiting and Reza exchange a quick glance, but this is

what Dean Whiting lives for.

I know your brother, the foreign

minister. Very bright. I know your

father, too. He threw the second

creepiest party I've ever been to

in Washington. And from what I can

tell you could probably use a bit

of a cat's paw yourself. Second

born son so beaten down by his

family he can't even tell me what

he wants when he's asked straight

out, a grown-up baby who hates his

brother and maybe wants to be

king, maybe.

Well, Prince, are you a king? Can

you tell me what you want?

The Prince is at first taken aback, but then takes a beat

to consider the offer. Whiting and the Middle-man wait.

I do have one small dream, a

selfless dream. At my house I have

a perfect one-third replica of

Hyde Park. I have ducks and deck

chairs from the real Hyde Park.

I wish for a monument to the

success of the moors in Europe in

the 8th century.

That already exists. It is called

the Alhambra.

A replica in my country to inspire

the people and a new Cordoba

Valley from which to view it. It

took the masters a hundred years,

but I believe we can do it in ten.

By the way, do you know that my

brother does not believe in God?

Whiting sips his cognac and, considering the Prince, does

indeed look like a cat digesting a canary.

114 EXT. MADRASSA CORNFIELD - DAY 114

Wind ripples across the leaves of corn. Wasim's hand

pulls weed grass. Farooq smiles mischievously.

115 EXT. MADRASSA "YARD" - DAY 115

Wasim, Farooq play soccer. Farooq is a natural athlete.

The spider is a symbol of the sin

of man. He bites the finger of

Peter Parker who is now half dark

and half light.

A real spider captures, then

stings and immobilizes, then

watches as the prey takes days to

die.

They'd never show that.

Suddenly they stop. MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA, the blue-eyed

Egyptian, has been watching them. They are embarrassed.

Are we in trouble?

MSA smiles a patient, charismatic, spooky smile. They

already know each other.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA

Look around you at your family...

In an OPEN AIR CLASSROOM the Cleric leads young children

in recitation of the Koran. Boys walk to class. Boys plow

a field.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA (CONT'D)

Look around you at your brothers

united by faith in God Almighty

and submission to his law.

A bull sleeps in the shade.

Wasim is still a virgin.

Wasim lightly shoves Farooq.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA

That is good because fornication

is a serious crime.

I'm a virgin, too.

It is an attack on honor and shows

contempt for sanctity and

encourages profligacy in society.

The call to prayer SOUNDS across the Madrassa. They wash

before prayer.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA

When God Almighty has chosen us

for important work, we have no

choice but complete submission.

Spreading prayer mats on the ground where they stand,

they begin to pray. In the field, the boys pulling the

plows have begun to pray.

116 EXT. CIA - SMOKING AREA - DAY 116

The Division chief enjoys a cigarette in a leafy

courtyard of the CIA office park.

Fred Franks hurries toward her. He stays upwind of the

cigarette.

We just received a dispatch from

Damascus, eight minutes old.

Mussawi's shopping a story that we

sent Bob to Beirut to assassinate

Prince Nasir.

The Division Chief drops her cigarette in a coffee can.

117 INT. HIGH CORNER OFFICE CIA - DAY 117

Terry George looks up from papers on his desk. He's got

his hand over the phone, and he isn't happy.

Can we get this guy? I mean now -

real time now.

Mussawi?

Yes. Mussawi.

I'll call you back.

Terry hangs up the phone. The Division Chief and Franks

exchange a glance.

Practical answer is no. Not before

he goes into another mosque or

newspaper and this story gains

traction.

He's got Bob's name?

Not his real name. But he's

shopping photos of them doing the

deal, long lens. Photos of Bob

being held. He's lucky he's alive.

The whole contact was a set-up.

Mussawi apparently now works for

Iran. First, he tortures our guy,

then peddles the CIA connection.

This is not good at all. After a moment to think, he

spits this out, quickly:

Put some air between us and Bob.

Bob has a long history of

entrepreneurial operations. We

haven't really had a handle on Bob

for years. After nine one one,

some people got too much leeway,

let their emotions get the best of

them. These are complex times.

There's already an active

investigation into Bob's actions

in, help me out here --

They begin to spin the line together.

Tehran? The Amiri brothers job?

.We're trying to find out who,

might have hired Bob for the Amiri

brothers job. Could the same

people be behind the Nasir job? A

lot of people seem to want this

Prince Nasir dead and Bob knows a

lot of people.

Fill in the rest, send me

everything. Is that it?

Fred is impressed. You don't get to be Terry George

without some skills.

118 INT. HALLWAY - WALTER REED HOSPITAL - DAY 118

At the end of a depressing hallway, Bob sits in a chair,

his bandaged hands in front of him.

CIA SECURITY OFFICER (O.S.)

You first established contact with

the Amiri brothers in 1998?

Yes.

CIA SECURITY OFFICER (O.S.)

You met them at a party in the

South of France?

Yes.

Bob is framed by two, not-bright CIA SECURITY OFFICERS.

CIA SECURITY OFFICER

Party given by Reza Barhani?

Yes.

Were you aware they were involved

in the illegal arms trade?

Of course I was aware. It's why I

went after them.

CIA SECURITY OFFICER #2

Were you aware these two men were

Iranian Intelligence Officers?

Bob can't believe the question.

what do you think?

CIA SECURITY OFFICER #2

Mr. Baer. This is a diplomatic

incident. Two men were murdered.

We've been tasked with the Damage

Assessment.

CIA SECURITY OFFICER

We'll need you to turn your

passport over to us.

119 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - WALTER REED - DAY 119

Bob in his bed. He stares out the window at a red brick

wall, a fragment of sky. He sees MARGARET in the doorway.

In their helpful way they told me

you were at one of six places but

since you were a number and not a

name did I happen to have that

number. No. No is the answer to

whether I have your number.

She rests her hand on the railing of the bed. On the

verge, she looks away, then back again.

They wouldn't give me any

information. I didn't know how to

find you, what I'd find...

He pulls her close, careful of his bandaged hands.

I'm okay. I'm fine. Hey --

(into his chest)

They wouldn't tell me a thing. Not

one thing.

He holds her. As she becomes aware of the bandages on his

hands, as her worry has been abating, anger has

ineluctably filled in behind.

Where were you, Bob?

He looks at her; he can't tell her the truth.

Were you back in Beirut?

He just stares. This is infuriating.

Bob, please tell me where you were

and tell me what happened. Please.

Bob motions for her to come closer.

I saw these Shiites selling an

Egyptian a missile. In Iran. I had

a feeling about this guy, a Sunni

nut-job, but I'm back here where I

got on the wrong side of Terry,

then an opportunity just happened

to come up involving someone I

worked with before, not a radical,

I mean, he went to Rutgers, only

now he flips, wants to cut my

goddamn head off. And now they got

me isolated away in here and they

send these suits around asking me

nonsense questions about bad

people who are no longer with us,

no longer with us on their goddamn

orders. So you tell me what

happened. You tell me, Margaret.

Margaret doesn't know what to say so she says nothing.

120 INT./EXT. GENEVA - DAY 120

Arabs strolling along the street. Nasir and hisfamily

shop in an expensive jewelry store.

121 INT. HOTEL PRESIDENT WILSON - DAY 121

Arabs stare out windows at the rain. Doors are open.

People mingle. Smoke is in the air.

A young WOMAN walks by, holding the hand of a much older

MAN, laughing at something he's saying.

122 INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT 122

Bryan plays Monopoly with a group of young Arab MEN. They

are using real money. The "bank" is stacks of hundreds

and fifties and twenties. They smoke and drink. An Arab

youth moves the silver top hat.

Shit. Park Place. Shit --

Park Place with hotels. Bryan holds Park Place. The Arab

Youth takes off his diamond encrusted Rolex and tosses it

toward the bank.

ARAB YOUTH (CONT'D)

Where are you from in the States?

El Segundo.

No one has heard of it.

It's near Los Angeles.

Movie stars, convertibles?

El Segundo is like Saudi Arabia

with a surf break.

They hoot and protest. They don't believe him.

It's a desert town on an ocean

controlled by an oil company.

Tankers lined up offshore. There's

this smell in the air. They pass

out flyers to families moving in.

This town is a quiet town where

everyone works and our families

are happy. If you have a problem

with it or if you don't like the

smell, you can leave.

If anyone works, it can't be Saudi

Arabia.

They all LAUGH LOUDLY, then the laughter fades as they

realize Julie and Riley are in the hotel room.

Julie eyes the money and the Asian girl in the corner.

He wanted to say good night to his

father.

Riley goes over and stiffly gives Bryan a hug.

123 INT. VENDING AREA - CIA - DAY 123

A vending machine HISSES filling a cup. Bob presses the

extra dark button, bandages on the tips of his fingers.

Bob looks over and sees people staring. They look away.

124 INT. DIVISION CHIEF ANTEROOM - CIA - DAY 124

Bob stands in front of an ASSISTANT'S desk.

she's in a meeting.

What about Fred?

He's in a meeting.

125 INT. BOB'S OFFICE - DAY 125

Bob behind his desk. He turns to his computer.

ON THE SCREEN: CIA proprietary software. He brings up a

search for PRINCE NASIR AL-SUBAAI. He hesitates. Finally,

he hits return.

ON THE SCREEN: PRINCE NASIR AL-SUBAAI - BLACKTAPE FILE.

ACCESS DENIED.

Bob carefully types with his damaged fingers.

ON THE SCREEN: HANDLING AGENTS FOR MUSSAWI. MUSSAWI -

BLACKTAPE. ACCESS DENIED. HANDLING AGENT - BLACKTAPE.

ACCESS DENIED.

Bob takes a sip of coffee. The wall clock reads: 10:10.

ON THE SCREEN: MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA. BLACKTAPE FILE.

ACCESS DENIED.

ANGLE - LATER

Bob at'his desk. The clock reads: 10:40. He hears a

distant TONE. TONE, TONE, TONE. It's a computer POP-UP

TONE. And it's getting closer.

ANGLE - Through the glass boxes at distant offices.

WORKERS turn, check their computers, one after another.

TONE, TONE, TONE. Bob's computer TONES. He turns.

ON THE SCREEN: a pop-up box reading - THIS COMPUTER IS

BEING AUDITED BY THE INSPECTOR GENERAL STAFF.

126 EXT. FRED FRANKS' NEIGHBORHOOD - EVENING 126

A middle-class suburban neighborhood so new the

landscaping is still tied to stakes. Half-built houses at

the ends of streets. Kids playing Wiffle-ball.

127 INT./EXT. DODGE K-CAR - DAY 127

Bob pulls up on the quiet street. He checks the rear-view

where a car with two MEN are following him. Bob pops a

book on tape in and waits. It's Anna Karenina in Farsi.

Fred Franks pulls into his driveway and gets out of the

car. His WIFE appears at the front door and his kids

gambol around -- exactly the tableau Bob has never had.

Fred doesn't see Bob until Bob is right on him.

Fred.

Fred turns and sees Bob, looks around uncomfortably.

What's going on, Fred?

(to his wife)

Honey, take the kids inside, would

you? I'll be in in a sec.

Bob and Fred watch the family go up the walk.

FRED FRANKS (CONT'D)

Bob, FBI's got it. Nothing I can

do about it. You know that. It's a

criminal investigation. Two men

were killed.

This bureaucratic defense sends Bob over the edge --

I was almost killed, Fred. My

hands were mutilated. And they're

asking me about the Amiri

brothers? About Tehran?

You gotta understand. This wrecks

careers. I shouldn't even be

talking to you.

I typed in Prince Nasir Al-Subai

and my computer gets seized.

I'm advising you to drop it.

Where did this Prince Nasir job

come from? Why was I tortured. Why

am I being investigated? Why was I

sent?

NEIGHBORS stare. Fred's kids look out the window.

Goodbye, Bob.

Lifting up to see Bob isolated in the grid of identical,

treeless houses.

128 INT. MANDARIN HOTEL - BALLROOM C - DAY 128

The SECRETARY OF DEFENSE projected onto a giant screen.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (ON SCREEN)

In whatever lies ahead, the United

States will remain a friend to the

Iranian people...

A large ballroom at a Washington hotel. It's a lunch

meeting of the COMMITTEE TO LIBERATE IRAN packed with

Washington hawks - middle-aged white men in gray suits.

They have suffered years of brutal

repression, years of domestic

terror from their own rulers.

At the head table: Reza Barhani; Tommy Barton of CONNEX;

Reps of Halliburton, Bechtel, Danny Dalton, Dean Whiting.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (CONT'D)

A new regime would bring

deliverance for Iran. Iranian

resources are abundant, its

culture is rich, its citizens are

talented. And given a chance,

there is no limit to what the

Iranian people can achieve.

129 INT. MANDARIN HALLWAY - DAY 129

On the other side of the doors, Bennett stands with THREE

HOTEL SECURITY GUARDS. The Secretary of Defense's VOICE

travels through the doors, muffled.

HOTEL SECURITY GUARD

You're not on the list. You don't

have a badge and you don't have a

wristband.

Bennett looks at the three guards. He pulls out a card

and scribbles ONE WORD on the back.

Take this to Sydney Hewitt. Now.

Please.

INSIDE THE ROOM the guard makes his way to Sydney Hewitt

and hands him the card.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

Their hopes are the same as all

people in every land: to lead

lives of dignity in a nation at

peace. And America will help them.

APPLAUSE as Sydney looks up sharply. At the head table:

Dean Crutcher, Reza, and Tommy clap along heartily.

MATCH CUT TO:

130 INT. CONNEX BOARDROOM - DAY 130

Not to my recollection --

Bennett and Sydney square off against Tommy, Jimmy, their

personal lawyers, one apiece.

Killeen Oil through Daniel Dalton

and PetroKa Energy Consultants

created assetless shell companies

owned by the heirs of President

Nazerbayev. This was. discussed...

(checks his notes)

At the Upstream Division Meeting

held in January of 2003 in Sun

Valley, Idaho?

I was at the meeting, but I don't

focus on those kinds of details.

Wherein it was described that

Killeen bore all financial risk,

but President Nazerbayev's

children, while attending The Lily

School in Switzerland, were

entitled to all of the profits -

seventy million dollars.

Tommy's personal lawyer leans in and whispers in his ear.

I attended the meeting but, as I

said, I don't focus on those kinds

of details.

Daniel Dalton Jr. and PetroKa

Energy Consultants --

A firm retained by Killeen well

prior to Connex's involvement --

Oh, fer Chrissakes, Tommy, we both

got letters from the Grand Jury,

it's not your own private little

pity party --

A good faith purchaser is in good

faith only if they didn't know

about the problems at the time of

the purchase --

This is the oil business we're

talking about, right?

The lowliest little shareholder

knows we deal with some of the

most stank places on earth --

It is illegal to offer gifts,

money or the promise of money or

anything of value to influence

foreign officials --

Oh, is it? I have personally seen

a bill from this law firm to the

government of Saudi Arabia for 36

million dollars. A one line bill

for services rendered.

The business of Whiting, Sloan is

not under discussion at this time.

Well, it oughta be. Danny's a good

man. He's a friend of mine.

131 EXT. LAKE FRONT - GENEVA - DAY 131

The ARAB YOUTH exits the hotel and runs across the wide

waterfront square. He cuts for a lone figure sitting on

wall. He runs up to Bryan.

They've sued the Emir on the Isle

of Jersey and frozen his money. He

was in Bulgari and his credit card

stopped working.

132 INT. NASIR'S SUITE - DAY 132

Prince Nasir tosses a newspaper at Bryan --

Some people, cousins of mine

actually, sued my father in The

Commonwealth alleging that he

broke agreements to repay funds

transferred from the State.

Bryan follows Nasir. He glances at a photo of AGGRIEVED

ARABS leaving court with DEAN WHITING looking protective.

A Mareva injunction?

Aggrieved Royals. Aggrieved about

what? That he tried to cut their

allowances from one hundred

thousand a month to eighty.

They pass wife, children, hangers-on. Room after room.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

There are 300 years of corrupt

layers in the middle-east and you

have to break the ice. There must

be structural changes. I tell

them, with just one of your boats

you could revolutionize Yemen,

build desalinization plants. The

man with the 200 foot boat needs a

250 foot boat. The man with 250.

now needs 300.

They dead-end in a small office. The Emir's JAPANESE

SECRETARY half-rises.

PRINCE NASIR (ARABIC) (CONT'D)

I want to see my father.

The secretary shakes his head. Nasir is furious.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

My cousins aren't bright enough to

be anything but finger-puppets. My

brother has faith only in his own

cunning. Then again, what should I

expect, his mother was a whore.

And he's hired American lawyers.

What do you suppose they are

thinking, my brother and these

American lawyers?

Bryan takes in the hangers-on in expensive suits peeking

from the doorway, the view to Lake Geneva. It's surreal.

What are they thinking? They're

thinking we're running out. We're

running out and ninety percent of

what's left is in the Middle East.

So if you look at the whole

progression from Versailles,

through Suez, 1973, Gulf War One,

Gulf War II, it's really shaping

up as a fight to the death.

so what they're thinking is keep

playing, keep buying your toys,

keep spending fifty thousand

dollars a night for your hotel

room, but don't invest in your

infrastructure, don't build a real

economy, so when you finally wake

up, they will have sucked you dry

and you will have squandered the

greatest natural resource in

history.

The Prince remains impassive. After a beat --

Come with me, please.

133 INT. A QUIET ROOM - HOTEL SUITE - DAY 133

Nasir speaks privately with Bryan.

I studied at Oxford. I have a PHD

from Georgetown. I want to create

a parliament. I want to give women

the right to vote. I want an

independent Judiciary. I want, to

start a new petroleum exchange in

the Middle-east and cut the

speculators out of the business.

why are the major oil exchanges in

New York and London anyway? I'll

put all of our energy up for

competitive bidding, I'll pipe

through Iran to Europe like you

proposed, I'll ship to China,

anything that achieves efficiency

and maximizes profits for my

people, profits which I'll then

use to rebuild my country.

That's great, that's exactly what

you should do.

Exactly, except your President

calls my father, says, I've got

unemployment in Texas, Kansas,

Washington State. One phone call

later we're stealing out of our

social programs to buy overpriced

airplanes. We owed the Americans,

but we've repaid that debt.

I accepted a Chinese bid, the

highest bid. And suddenly I'm a

terrorist. I'm a Godless

communist.

Nasir hopes takes the newspaper out of Bryan's hand.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

Dean Whiting.

Tight on: Dean Whiting with the aggrieved royals.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

Who represents not only these

aggrieved royals but also Connex

Oil. They're pressuring my father

to invalidate the Chinese

contracts. They underestimate him.

This is about his legacy to his

people.

135 EXT. MADRASSA - DAY 135

Wasim sis studying, slowly, sounding out the words. He

writes crudely formed letters. He sees Farooq goofing

around with friends.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA (V.0.)

We are a small group, the ones who

carry convictions and ambitions.

And an even smaller group from

this group, are the ones who flee

from the worldly life in order to

spread and act upon these

ambitions.

Mohammed Sheik Agiza leads the boys through underbrush on

the communal farm. They approach a small farm shed.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA (CONT'D)

And an even smaller group from

this elite group are the ones who

sacrifice their souls and their

blood in order to bring victory to

these ambitions and principles.

136 INT. FARM SHED -- DAY 136

MSA pulls mats aside revealing a hatch in the floor. He

opens the hatch. A STINGER MISSILE case is hidden below.

He drags out the case. They help him set it on a table.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA

So you are the cream of the cream

of the cream. It is possible for

us to achieve glory only by

traversing this path.

MSA opens the case and, as he shows off the Stinger, we

notice a SMILEY FACE scratched into the metal.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA (CONT'D)

American-made. Good quality, but

nearly impossible to hit anything.

MSA lifts out another device: a conical SHAPED CHARGE.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA (CONT'D)

By shaping the charge, this will

send a blast of molten copper

through thirty inches of steel.

The boys are wide-eyed. This is the coolest pocket-knife

they've ever seen.

137 INT. MULTIPLEX - MALL - DAY 137

DEATH FIST III! BROSNAN IS BOND! Bob walks past posters

in an air-conditioned theater lobby. A bored concession

stand WORKER ignores him.

BOB (V.0.)

Stan, why did Mussawi double-cross

me? Why does no one care that a

Sunni radical named Mohammed Sheik

Agiza has our missile? And why did

they open a damage assessment on

the Amiris? And on me. For doing

my job?

138 INT. THEATER - DAY 138

An empty matinee. Bob sits next to Stan Goff.

Questions two and three seem

obvious to me. Missiles are

everywhere. Christ, Casey gave 'em

out like party favors. This damage

assessment, well, let's just say

Nasir wasn't a home run. They're

worried. About fall-out.

They're worried you may want to

talk about it. But if you're

already under investigation?

What about Mussawi?

Mussawi's a soldier. He's just

like you.

Bob stares at Stan who continues.

Maybe he found God. Maybe he was

having a bad day. Maybe Americans

shouldn't travel these days.

Did Prince Nasir hide Mohammed

Sheik Agiza in the Water Ministry?

Does he fund terrorist

organizations?

Tell people what they want to hear

and they have a better chance of

believing you. People were paid to

lie, coached on their polygraphs.

Single sources spread through

different intelligence agencies

that don't communicate with each

other. You know how it's done.

Who's worried about the Nasir job?

Stan, who's worried about me

talking?

On the screen: a LOUD, ACTION BEAT. Stan leans over and

139 EXT. ENERGY DEPARTMENT - DAY 139

Hulking structures in concrete like Albert Speer's vision

of heaven as Danny D. rants at Bennett --

DANNY D.

Some trust fund prosecutor, got

off-message at Brown, thinks he's

gonna run this up the flag pole,

make a name for himself, maybe get

elected some two-bit, no-name

congressman from nowhere, with the

result that Russia or China can

suddenly start having, at our

expense, all the advantages we

enjoy here. No, I tell you. No.

But, Danny, these are sovereign

nations... Sovereign nations! What

is a sovereign nation, but a

collective of greed run by one

individual. But, Danny, they're

codified by the U.N. charter.

Legitimized gangsterism on a

global basis that has no more

validity than an agreement between

the Crips and the Bloods!

Passing people shoot sidelong glances. A GROUP of men in

suits are clearly waiting for Danny D.

DANNY D. (CONT'D)

Corruption charges. Corruption?

Corruption ain't nothing more than

government intrusion into market

efficiencies in the form of

regulation. That's Milton

Friedman. He got a goddamn Nobel

prize. We have laws against it

precisely so we can get away with

it. Corruption is our protection.

Corruption is what keeps us safe

and warm. Corruption is why you

and I are here in the white-hot

center of things instead of

fighting each other for scraps of

meat out there in the streets.

Corruption... is how we win.

Danny D. winds down. Finally --

You broke the law, Mr. Dalton.

DANNY D.

Oh, who gives a shit!

You have 37 million dollars hidden

away and the only question I can

see of any relevance is whether

you'll get to keep any of it.

The two men are tiny against the architecture, the

nation's capitol going on with it's day around them.

140 EXT. CAPITOL HILL -- WASHINGTON, D.C. - DAY 140

Sydney approaches Bennett who eats his lunch outside the

law offices of whiting and Sloan.

How'd it go? Think you'll get

invited on any more hunting trips?

He has kids. He's got a wife.

He broke the law.

Sydney holds out a golden envelope to Bennett.

Mr. Janus himself wanted me to

extend an invitation to oilman of

the Year. He's being honored so it

should be a nice weekend. Relax.

Get a massage. Congratulations.

Perhaps the slightest flicker of distaste crosses

Bennett's face. On the reverse the Capitol Building is so

close you could reach out and touch it.

141 INT. EMIR'S SUITE - GENEVA - DAY 141

A vast hotel suite, SILENT until the Emir's electric

wheelchair rolls into sight.

He rolls across marble, through rooms, until he

approaches Prince Nasir and Prince Meshal. A long beat

before the Emir speaks in Arabic.

I am tired.

The Emir raises his hand. Nasir gets control of himself.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

Who will be Emir?

The Emir looks away, then back at Prince Nasir.

Your brother.

Prince Nasir looks from his father to brother and back.

I would ask you to remain as

Foreign Minister.

Prince Meshal sticks out his hand. Nasir ignores it and

speaks to his father.

You cannot do this. He is barely

qualified to run a brothel much

less a country.

I like Europe, the precipitation.

I will be happy to stay here. My

decision is final and I ask you to

support your brother.

I cannot do that.

142 EXT. GENEVA LAKE FRONT - DAY 142

The ROAR of water as the fountain cascades down. Riley

plays along the low wall beside it. Bryan and Julie hover

nearby. Around them people speak German and French.

Sure, it looks like just hanging

around in a hotel but that's how

these people do business. It's

world historical stage time. With

the delivery deals we can make in

Europe, transport through Iran,

this guy might be able to

revolutionize not just his

country, but the whole region.

His dad's about to keel over and

Prince Nasir could be like

Mossadegh in Iran in 1952, with a

real democracy springing up

organically. I mean if we could

just be a part of one of these

countries getting a Parliament,

helping them find efficiency,

showing them how real incentivized

capitalism can do its job --

Stop it! Look at me.

The fountain shoots up and cascades down. Riley leans

toward the water and for a second his feet lift up. Bryan

starts up, but then Riley is playing again.

Julie, the little trading company

I work for is now the chief

economic advisor to Prince Nasir.

Do you know what this means? It's

like someone put a giant ATM on

our front lawn.

Here's a question: how do you

think it looks to profit off the

death of your six year-old?

This gets through, but then --

Fuck you. I changed the diapers

and put cream on rashes and gave

bottles in the night and went to

doctor's check-ups and worried

about percentiles... I did

everything right. I did everything

right.

They look at each other and, for a second, it seems he

may melt and hold her, but he doesn't and it's cruel.

Bryan, we're going back to

America.

Good.

She heads for Riley who lets go of a balloon. It floats

up past the watch signs plastered on the buildings.

143 INT. BEDROOM - GEORGETOWN MANSION - NIGHT 143

A phone RINGS a muted electronic BEEP. Dean Whiting

answers the phone.

Hello.

Hello, is this Mr. Why-Teeng? This

is HomeTech Security.

He reaches for the bedside light and snaps it on. Mrs.

Whiting is a lump on the far side of the bed.

This is Mr. Whiting.

We're showing a motion sensor

failure in your downstairs study.

Yes.

Whiting glances at the wall readout on his alarm --

DOWNSTAIRS STUDY flashing.

Like I said we're getting a

failure message. You want me to

stay on the phone with you while

you walk around or send a car?

Whiting reaches under his bed and pulls a gun box. He

flips the combination. Three pistols. He selects the

largest and switches off the light.

I'll walk around.

144 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 144

Whiting closes the bedroom door and switches on the hall

light. Lots of closed doors. He walks down the stairs.

145 INT. DOWNSTAIRS - NIGHT 145

He reaches around a wall and hits the living room lights.

He crosses the living room and library, hitting lights as

he goes. Then a kitchen. The house is quiet.

Everything's fine.

146 INT. DOWNSTAIRS STUDY - NIGHT 146

Whiting's study, unlike the standard, upper-crust,

decorating of the rest of the home, has a specific Middle-

Eastern flair. Persian antiques. Pictures of Whiting on a

camel, with Persian friends at oxford in the sixties.

Whiting is an Arabist.

The motion sensor light is on. Whiting tries a window.

How're we doing, Mr. Why-Teeng?

It's secure. He tries another one. It's secure.

Everything's fine.

There's a sliding glass door that leads to a patio and

pool. Whiting tries it and it slides open.

The sliding door is unlocked.

He turns slowly. The room looks different. There is an

alcove with a wet-bar and walk-in closets.

Did you leave it unlocked?

Send a car, you imbecile.

He looks at the alcove and closet. Just then, the desk

phone RINGS, startling him. The phone rings and rings.

on the wall behind Whiting's head are beautifully framed

photos with Kissinger, Clinton, King Fahd. Rack focus off

Whiting and slowly ZOOM to...

AN OLD PHOTO

147 INT. DENNY'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT 147

It's early morning. A couple of drunks at the counter.

Bob is at a booth with a mug of coffee. Dean Whiting

appears outside the window, enters the restaurant, sits.

You were in Beirut in '84.

I lost friends there as I'm sure

you did.

I got a peek at your file. You're

a good man, one whose experience

is narrow and deep. Your entire

career you've been used and

probably never even known what

for.

I didn't used to need to know.

A Grand Slam Breakfast is set in front of Bob.

In this town, you're innocent

until you're investigated.

Bob looks up and squints at the waitress' name-tag.

Bacon looks perfect, Deborah.

Bob puts syrup on the pancakes. Eats a piece of bacon.

Innocent until investigated.

That's nice. It has a nice ring to

it. I bet you've worn some miles

on little sayings like that. Very

wise, gives the listener the sense

of law being written as it's

spoken.

If anything happens to me or my

family, an accident, an

accusation, anything, then first

your son will disappear, his body

will never be found. Then your

wife. Her body will never be found

either. This is guaranteed. Then,

whatever is the most dangerous

thing you do in your life, it

might be flying in a small plane,

it might be walking to the bank,

you will be killed.

Do you understand what I'm saying?

I want you to acknowledge that you

do understand so that we're clear

and there won't be any mistakes.

After a beat, Whiting nods.

Beirut rules, Mr. Baer?

Whiting loves the game. Bob looks tired, maybe a little

sad.

I've made decisions that resulted

in deaths, but I never lost a

nights sleep. Never. I killed

people, but I always had about 500

pages of U.S. law behind me, law

that I believed in, and that was

good enough.

You still do, Mr. Baer. You still

do.

Bob stares at him.

I want my passports back.

148 EXT. D.C. - DAY 148

Tight on Bennett as he runs through a downtrodden

neighborhood. Sweat dripping, breathing heavily, he runs

faster and faster. People on stoops watch him go.

He's oblivious to the UNMARKED CAR following him. Finally

the car races up beside him. The window rolls down and

Donald Parish III's face appears.

Bennett, hey. Come on. Take a ride

with me.

Bennett keeps jogging.

Bennett, I know you know about the

crime fraud exception to attorney

client privilege?

I do, Don. Very well.

Then, you also know your client is

into some shady stuff and it's

starting to look like you could be

involved in hiding the true nature

of the transactions.

Bennett stops. Farish's car stops. Bennett is panting.

That's quite a statement, Don.

149 INT. UNMARKED CRUISER - DAY 149

Bennett rides with Farish. A long beat. Finally --

One word. Dalton.

Danny Dalton?

Defrauded the Government of

Kazakhstan of funds to which it

was entitled, defrauded the people

of Kazakhstan of the right to the

honest services of their elected

and appointed officials. Seven

years, does three, maybe two point

seven, on your recommendation.

out the window the bad neighborhood is giving way back to

the developing neighborhood where Bennett lives.

And let me guess: this was a solo

act, without the knowledge of

Connex or Killeen Oil, of Mr. Lee

Janus or Jimmy Pope.

Dalton's a bit of a rogue, it's

true.

And he'll have a nice little trust

fund waiting when he gets out.

Not so little, I imagine.

Don, we can spend the next five

years in court to get back to this

very place we are right now. They

will fight tough. They will fight

dirty. They will pressure your

boss. They will pressure the

people who appointed your boss.

They will pressure the wives of

the people who appointed your

boss. You won't ever hit 'em any

harder than this. And you know it.

Bennett waits. After a beat Farish shakes his head.

I'm sorry, Bennett. I don't think

Dalton's enough.

150 INT. BENNETT'S LIVING ROOM - DAY 150

Bennett uses the claw end of a hammer to pry the front

off a large wooden crate. His father sits across the room

reading the paper. The side of the box comes down.

Bennett stares --

ANGLE - THE STUFFED HEAD OF A KUDU.

Bennett Sr. stares, then lights a cigarette.

(re: the cigarette)

What are you doing?

BENNETT SR.

The question is what are you

doing?

Really. Well, I'll tell you what

I'm not doing: I'm not running a

shelter. You going back to work?

No answer.

What happened at your job anyway?

Another jerk? Another white

asshole? What? You think you get

where I've gotten and there are

less of them? You think I don't

want a fucking drink? You have no

idea what I'm doing, what is

actually going on with me. The

only way you can change this shit,

all this shit, is from the inside.

I'm trying to get inside. Which a

fucking loser like you will never

understand.

Bennett Sr. puts down, his paper, stubs out his cigarette

and starts for the door.

Good.

The door shuts behind his dad --

(yelling after him)

I love this country. It's a great

country, if you're not a quitter.

AND DON'T COME BACK!

Slowly Bennett calms. He turns, looks at the Kudu. He

thinks and the sound of a GRILL SIZZLING begins to RISE

151 EXT. JIMMY POPE'S BACKYARD - HOUSTON, TEXAS - DAY 151

Ribs on a fancy BBQ grill. A wide expanse of lawn. No

other houses in sight. TEENAGERS splash in a pool.

Dalton's not enough. So they will

sit on him until he explains the

how and why and the who, and they

will be forced to unravel this

merger.

Jimmy turns from the grill.

I'd be real careful. You dig a

three foot hole, you'll find one

body, but you dig a six foot hole

and you might find twenty.

Dalton's not enough.

We use one quarter of the oil in

the world, Bennett. Your house is

light and warm and my house is

light and warm, but what if it was

that way half the week, or none of

the week. Hell, China's economy

ain't growing as fast as it could

because they can't get all the oil

they need. I'm damn proud of that

fact.

Bennett gives him nothing. A beat.

JIMMY POPE (CONT'D)

What if it involved someone at

your firm? Someone way the hell

above you. We'd have to have an

understanding.

If he's as big as you say then

when he goes down the merger will

be approved.

Despite himself, Jimmy is impressed --

Just like that.

We're looking for the illusion of

due-diligence. Two criminal acts

successfully prosecuted gives us

that illusion.

Jimmy hands Bennett a plate of ribs and smiles.

Call me Jimmy.

152 INT. SHED - DAY 152

ON TELEVISION: grainy video of a suicide bomber's

videotaped "will." THE BOMBER, 19, stands in a field of

dry rubble and flowers, is both nervous and confident, a

backpack anything but innocuous at his feet.

SUICIDE BOMBER (ON VIDEO)

I wish for everyone who hears

this to fear God and to follow God

and his prophets. When I die I

want the people who inherit my

possessions to do the following:

A group of twenty or thirty BOYS, including Wasim and

Farooq, watch the video in a makeshift shed.

SUICIDE BOMBER (VIDEO) (CONT'D)

One: the people who prepare my

body should be good Muslims so

this will remind me of God and his

forgiveness. Two: I don't want

anyone to rip their clothes or

slap their faces because this is

an ignorant thing to do.

Mohammed Sheik Agiza watches the boys watch the video.

MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA

His influence on those left behind

grows. There is no sense of loss,

since he continues to live and

inspire, his fame spreading.

Wasim impassively stares at the video.

Three: I don't want a pregnant

woman to come and say good bye to

me because I don't approve it.

153 EXT. THE BEES - DAY 153

Golden honey flares in sunlight dripping off a comb into

a collection jug. Wasim replaces the comb into a hive.

In a line of square wooden hives, Farooq removes a comb

and begins draining the honey.

Wasim pulls out another comb.

Wasim looks down. A bee is on his arm. He brushes it off.

Wasim and Farooq look at the bee on the ground as it

drags'itself around in a circle.

If I truly lack faith, then I am

not the right person.

He looks to Farooq who seems very young at this moment.

The questioning means that you

have faith and makes it stronger

That's a lot of shit, I think.

Farooq looks around to see if anyone is listening.

We'll get to intervene in the

affairs of family members. We'll

be able to help them with whatever

they need.

You'll be able to get your mother

here.

Wasim looks at his friend then looks away. On the ground,

the worker bee stops struggling and dies.

154 EXT. DESERT - DAY 154

Pan across the desert to find Nasir staring into space.

Twenty seven tribes in my country

and we all hate each other. My

father arrested the malcontents.

He crushed the religious zealots.

Try reasoning with people who have

one foot in the afterlife, he

said, as he leveled village after

village.

Another angle and Bryan is approaching. Behind him is the

desert house made mainly of tents and sails. DIGNITARIES

wait on the deck and watch Nasir.

You know what place my children

love most on earth? My children

love Colorado. I could easily live

in Colorado while my brother

presides over a civil war. I could

be very comfortable.

Bryan watches Nasir.

I don't see you moving to

Colorado.

155 INT. BEDOUIN TENT - DAY 155

The tent is crowded with tribal and military leaders.

Worried and suspicious, they.sit on rugs and recline

against pillows. Nasir enters and takes his seat.

For centuries Islam has been ruled

by people with no respect for law,

monopolies handed out for the

things that people want, commerce

stifled, young people unable to

find jobs, critics jailed or put

to death, women are second-class

country.

This is true. My father is ill and

weak and unwilling to fight the

Americans. But others are willing.

And when a country has five

percent of the world's population

but does fifty percent of its

military spending, then the

persuasive powers of that country

are on the decline.

The crowd is unmoved. Rallying the men will not be easy.

156 INT. ZURICH AIRPORT - MORNING 156

Bob rides up an escalator, changing planes in the early

morning. He sees his wife watching him.

157 INT. ZURICH AIRPORT DEPARTURE LOUNGE - MORNING 157

Bob and Margaret sit in uncomfortable, connected chairs.

If I told you I knew of something

that was going to happen to

someone and that I felt I had to

try and stop it even though it

will probably cost me my job, what

would you say?

She really looks at him.

You can't tell me any more? No, of

course not.

She looks away. Outside the window a huge plane is

pulling away from the gate.

I want you to do what you think is

right.

And maybe for you to want the same

for me.

After a beat, she reaches over and takes his hand.

A wide shot of Bob and Margaret holding hands in the

lounge, the plane lifting off behind them --

158 INT. PALACE - PERSIAN GULF - DAY 158

Tight on medals on a military uniform. Hands reach down

to pin another row. Prince Meshal Al-Subaai is looking

into a mirror as he buckles his ceremonial sword.

PRINCE MESHAL AL-SUBAAI

If I liberalize, the generals

would overthrow me. If I relax my

authority, the mob would tear me

limb from limb. But, of course,

I'm aware that democracy and human

rights are good ideas.

He stares long into his own royal reflection.

159 INT. PALACE GREAT HALL - DAY 159

Prince Meshal and ADVISORS walk toward brightly-lit

double doors. The sound of a LARGE CROWD cheering comes

toward him as he disappears into silhouette.

160 EXT. WORKER'S COMPOUND - PERSIAN GULF - DAY 160

It's a holiday as an AM radio blares Prince Meshal's

CORONATION CELEBRATION. Saleem and other workers play

cricket on a makeshift pitch just outside the gate.

I wanted to be on a bobsled in the

Olympics. I wanted to drive. That

was my dream.

The men have no idea what he's talking about. He sees

Wasim walking toward him.

Wasim! Bobsled!

(to the men)

Wasim knows what a bobsled is.

Can I borrow bus fare, papa?

Wasim, tell them about the

bobsled.

It's a little car that goes down a

track of ice and snow.

Saleem pulls some change from his pocket and hands it to

his son.

Oh, how snow sparkles, the crunch

of it under your feet, the quiet

and calm it brings --

Wasim suddenly hugs his father who is surprised but hugs

him back. Then Wasim walks away.

Wasim glances back. Saleem waves... and Wasim waves back.

Then Saleem turns back to the cricket.

161 INT. MITSUBISHI SUV - DAY 161

On the edge of the city, Bob sits in a traffic jam in the

glaring sun, heat waves flickering. His POV of a white

bus full of migrant workers in blue jumpsuits.

162 INT. CIA - NIGHT 162

Fred Franks stares at the window of a vending machine

trying to decide between Doritos or Fritos. He presses E8

and Doritos drop.

Man down. I'm going in.

He snatches the Doritos.

163 INT. CIA TASK FORCE ROOM -- NIGHT 163

This room is now crowded, filled with audio-visual

surveillance equipment. Palpable excitement in the air.

Franks returns with his coffee and chips.

WILLY, 24, a technician, buzz cut, recent 5th year Senior

at Hamilton College, fills him in.

Just heard from Tampa, the J-STARS

are tracking and we should have an

image from the Predator in a few

seconds.

Great.

He eats some chips, offers some to another guy.

Is it night there still?

Morning.

164 EXT. BEDOUIN TENT - MORNING 164

The tribal leaders have bargained through the night.

Outside the tents EVERYONE ELSE is waiting, including

Bryan whose ear piece dangles to his Blackberry.

BRYAN (INTO PHONE)

We have a contract to establish a

new petroleum exchange. No firm

our size has pulled off anything

like this.

Bryan crosses to the CHINESE OIL EXECUTIVES.

He's a visionary, like Faisal or

Attaturk, and the people love him.

By Monday, he'll be running the

country.

The Chinese seem unconvinced. Finally, the tent opens and

the leaders file out. Prince Nasir addresses the crowd.

The Middle-East and the Arab

people have seen empires come and

go in six millennia. The Pax

Romana, the Pax Ottomanica, the

Pax Brittanica, were nothing more

than invasions and occupations

that ended... The Pax Americana

will end, too.

His wife and daughters proudly watch.

PRINCE NASIR (CONT'D)

We have endless patience for

history, but a man starving to

death while sitting on a chair

made of gold can no longer afford

to be patient. The time for

democratic, Arab self-

determination has arrived.

The crowd CHEERS. And as Prince Nasir, his family and

supporters move toward the vehicles, find Nasir's

BODYGUARD whispering into a cell phone --

Silver Hummer --

165 EXT. LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS FACILITY - MORNING 165

The Liquefied Natural Gas facility has changed hands. The

CHINA GAS AND ELECTRIC signage is now CONNEX-KILLEEN

signage. The Chinese engineers are now American

engineers.

Native MUSICIANS entertain a small crowd of HARD HATS,

local OFFICIALS and visiting DIGNITARIES.

Someone BREAKS A BOTTLE across a huge colored pipe. The

CHIEF ENGINEER signals. He throws a huge lever --

A POWERFUL WHISPER builds, hurtling through the pipes

toward them and past them to the LNG CARRIER, a thousand-

foot-long tanker, docked alongside.

166 INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT 166

The doors open. Sydneyand Bennettenter, wearing

tuxedos. Sydney insertsa plasticcard allowing accessto

the upper floors.

His wife'll be there. Pat. Butter

wouldn't melt in her mouth.

The elevator TONES on every floor.

167 INT. PRESIDENTIAL SUITE - NIGHT 167

coif, opens the door. She takes in the men, smiling --

MRS. JANUS

Sydney, how are you? And you must

be Mr. Holiday?

she shakes his hand. Gives Sydney both cheeks. They cross

the large suite, one wall of which is floor-to-ceiling

windows giving a dazzling view of mid-town Manhattan.

In a sitting area, LELAND "LEE" JANUS, 60's, a vigorous

pit-bull in tux shirt and bow-tie, turns from the TV --

MR. JANUS

Syd! Bennett! Lee Janus! How're we

doing?

Janus is standing with his hand out --

MR. JANUS (CONT'D)

Those number crunchers can get a

little over-zealous, can't they,

but Christ, when we write the GAAP

rules like some kind of abstract

painting. Stare at that liability

hard enough and before long it'll

turn into an asset.

168 INT. CIA - TASK FORCE ROOM - NIGHT 168

A small black and white image of a room full of GENERALS

and SUPPORT STAFF moving silently around.

PULLING back to reveal they're on a small monitor,

titled, "US CENTRAL COMMAND, TAMPA, FLORIDA."

The Division Chief, Franks, other Group Chiefs huddle

over another, blank, MONITOR.

ANGLE: ON THE BLANK MONITOR, suddenly, an image pops on --

desert seen from seven miles up. A wide shot of sand and

more sand.

The room lets out soft YEAHS as the image shifts, finding

a distant highway cutting through it.

WILLY (V.0.)

Image from Predator. Seven miles

up. Let's go in. God, I love the

UAV's.

What?

Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. I love

'em.

And it's quiet, right?

Baby cruises at eighty knots,

about as audible as the clouds.

169 INT. HUMMER - DAY 169

Bryan watches the desert fly outside the window. Nasir

stares ahead. The Hummer slows.

Bryan sees a vast FLOCK OF SHEEP moving diagonally across

the desert in front of them, blocking the road.

170 EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY 170

In the middle of thousands of sheep, shepherds on camels,

and SPRINKLER TRUCKS misting water over the flock moving

with ancient slowness across the road.

171 INT. FOUR SEASONS PRESIDENTIAL SUITE - NIGHT 171

Mr. Janus in the comfy chair. Bennett perches on the edge

of the couch. Sydney is next to him.

The lawyers are saying, hey,

if you can't trust a Big Five

accounting firm. And the

accountants are saying, hey, we're

not lawyers. Legal didn't

understand. Accounting didn't

understand. Nobody understood

anything. The regulatory bodies

had to scratch their heads for a

minute that nobody at Connex or

Killeen was at fault, but this

merger is so balance-positive for

American consumers that ultimately

Justice wants it, the Federal

court wants it. Everybody wants

it. Our real client is US, the

American people, and we're

building our presence in

Kazakhstan, so we had to give them

a little something meaningful and

they got out of our way.

Mr. Janus glances at the TV where a pro golfer sinks a

long, undulating putt.

He looks back at Bennett, just a glance, but it's clear

he recognizes in Bennett someone who understands the way

the world works and the pressures that he, Mr. Janus, is

under.

MR. JANUS

Something besides Dalton?

Unfortunately, yes. And the best

option seemed to be a secret deal

for excess Iranian pipeline

capacity that I uncovered during

the diligence, a side deal

benefiting the lead lawyer

involved in the Connex-Killeen

merger approval process.

A slow dawning on Sydney's face --

What do you think you're doing?

Of course, it's illegal for an

American to control these rights --

Stop. Right. Now.

Bennett and Mr. Janus look at Sydney.

MR. JANUS

Is there something you want to

tell me, Syd?

172 INT. CIA TASK FORCE ROOM - NIGHT 172

ON A MONITOR: the image of the distant desert slowly

swings around.

FRANKS (V.0.)

What are we looking at, folks?

WILLY (V.0.)

We'll get there.

They find a lone car traveling like an ant in the road.

WILLY (V.0.) (CONT'D)

I gotta do some traveling. I've

never even gotten out of the USA.

173 INT./EXT. MITSUBISHI SUV - DAY 173

Bob is driving fast now. The modern city is behind him.

Lift up to see the Mitsubishi heading into the desert, an

eight lane highway heading to nowhere.

174 EXT. LNG TANKER - PERSIAN GULF - DAY 174

The needle disengages from a container with a swoosh.

VOICE (OVER SPEAKERS)

The latest vacuum seal

protection and workers trained in

the Taiwan and the United States

of America.

MEN in blue jumpsuits watch the needle lift in the sky.

175 INT. LNG BRIDGE - DAY 175

A FUNCTIONARY talks into the microphone. People pass this

way and that sipping champagne. The view down the length

of the boat past the containment bubbles is striking.

that's 100 million in total, quite

a haul...

A wide of the beautiful harbor. Fire boats spray water.

And far away, a FLOTILLA of native fishing boats, dhows

and sambuks and boums, makes its way out to sea.

176 EXT. FISHING BOAT - DAY 176

FISHER-FOLK perform tasks they've been performing since

time began. A FISHERMAN looks up --

Following his view to another dhow as WASIM and then

FAROOQ drift into view.

MUSIC swells across the water from the terminal. More of

the flotilla of fishing boats is revealed.

And behind them the shoreline is dotted with oil storage

tanks still painted with images of the old Emir.

177 INT. PRESIDENTIAL SUITE - NIGHT 177

Sydney on his feet, standing aggressively over Bennett.

In our line of work, the guy with

the documents is usually the guy

who stole the documents.

Finesse. Strategize. Advise. But

don't own. Your words.

You aren't going to hurt me,

Bennett. You'll wash out of the

private sector. Fact, you're

already gone. You'll end up

working public defender cases.

You'll make 1/50th the money. You

could have been on the boards of

Fortune Five Hundred companies.

You could have been an advisor to

Presidents. You could have helped

us win like Romans instead of

sitting on the sidelines hoping we

don't turn into Visigoths.

You jumped that turnstile, sir,

but don't worry, we'll get you off

at trial --

Sydney takes the documents out of Bennett's hands.

We expect you kids to try and kill

the father. We encourage it. Just

maybe not so soon.

Sydney senses something and sees DONALD FARISH III and

FBI AGENTS have entered the room. Sydney turns back to

Bennett, a flash of true venom --

SYDNEY (CONT'D)'

You ungrateful, pissant, nobody.

FBI restrains Sydney. Pat looks up from her needlepoint.

A piece of advice Syd, one

attorney to another...

Bennett leans close --

Get rid of that watch. It makes

you look like a nigger.

ANGLE - on Sydney's wrist is the Mickey Mouse watch. And

then a handcuff is slipped over it and clicked tight.

Donald Farish III and nods --

Don. Not the perp walk, Don --

Farish nods as if to acknowledge they're barely out of

round one. And they begin leading Sydney out.

Across the room, silhouetted by the windows, Mrs. Janus

helps Mr. Janus slip on his tux jacket.

They see Bennett standing awkwardly in the middle of the

room. Pat extends her hand for him to join them.

178 EXT. PRESIDENTIAL SUITE BALCONY - EVENING 178

The three are silhouetted against the skyline. Mr. Janus

looks out at the valleys of Manhattan.

MR. JANUS

I'm a straight shooter, Bennett. I

think it was Trollope who said the

best capitalist is someone who's

greedy and honest. We can't forget

that second part.

MRS. JANUS

It was Trollope, honey.

MR. JANUS

We're creating a lot of jobs this

quarter, Bennett, a lot of jobs.

We're building a business and

that's what America's all about.

179 INT. CIA - TASK FORCE ROOM - NIGHT 179

ON THE MONITOR the convoy is in the smudge of sheep.

WILLY (O.S.)

Silver Hummer, silver Hummer where

are you silver Hummer?

ON THE MONITOR the image tightens, zooming in on the

silver roof of Nasir's Hummer. It locks --

Relief on the faces of Bureau Chiefs and technicians.

There's a phrase. You know what I

mean. What's the phrase? Target

Target acquisition.

ON THE MONITOR the silver roof unmoving in the desert.

Right. Target acquisition. That's

what we got here.

180 EXT. CONVOY - DAY 180

Nasir's children are laughing as sheep pass. The parents

are laughing, too. PAN and find Bryan watching them.

Nasir's wife smiles kindly. Bryan opens the door for her.

You guys should ride together.

Nasir and Bryan exchange a glance then Nasir helps his

wife into the vehicle. Bryan hands the baby up to them.

181 INT. BRYAN'S VEHICLE - DAY 181

Bryan looks out and sees a SHEPHERD showing his SON how

to use the staff, tapping the sheep, guiding them.

The convoy moves out, sheep like parted waters on either

side of the highway, sheep closing behind as they pass.

182 INT. MITSUBISHI SUV - DAY 182

Bob speeds toward the sheep who are again blocking the

road. He pulls up to them and honks. Nothing happens.

SHEPHERDS on camels stare.

He inches the car forward. Bob's SUV is steadily engulfed

by sheep. Then he can't go any further. He forces the

door open and gets out.

183 EXT. SHEEP CROSSING - DAY 183

Cacophonous sheep BELLS and sheep SOUNDS, hooves in sand.

The sun is brutal. Bob climbs onto the hood.

HIS POV ahead in the desert, beyond the sheep, of Prince

Nasir's convoy is rapidly disappearing. And THE HIGHWAY

CURVING to the right.

184 INT. MITSUBISHI SUV - DAY 184

Bob slams the car into reverse and begins backing out of

the sheep. It's slow going. Sheep getting bumped, BAAING

loudly, as Bob reverses.

185 EXT. PREDATOR DRONE AIRCRAFT - DAY 185

A metal plane, like a giant, grey insect, drifts silently

above the earth. The horizon is bright and curved.

The Predator has no pilots. The controls adjust on their

own with robotic smoothness.

186 INT./EXT. MITSUBISHI SUV - DAY 186

Bob gets free of the sheep. He turns off the highway and

drives out into the desert, going around the giant flock,

so that he can cut the convoy off at an angle.

A wizened SHEPHERD on a camel watches the SUV go. The

watering trucks continue SWISH, SWISH, SWISHING.

187 INT. HELLFIRE BAY - DAY 187

The bay where two Hellfire missiles wait. The hatch

begins opening.

The desert floor appears far below, just a blank canvas,

the details out of reach of human eyes.

188 INT. PRINCE NASIR'S HUMMER - DAY 188

The baby is SCREAMING and a child can't get its juice box

to fit in the Hummer cup holder. The square corner hits

the circular opening. And again. And again.

Nasir's wife readies a bottle.

The child slams the juice box. Nasir reaches and fits the

juice box in the holder. The baby keeps screaming.

189 INT. BANQUET HALL - OILMAN OF THE YEAR - NIGHT 189

Laughter fills the room at a sumptuous awards dinner. SIR

DAVID has white hair and a black bow tie.

I would like to say, in making our

selection of the recipient of this

award, John Brown can't win every

year. It would be like Formula One

with Schumacher and Ferrari

winning over and over. And I don't

need to tell you whose fuel

they're using.

Faces in the crowd, eating and laughing --

SIR DAVID (CONT'D)

This is not to crown a career.

You're a young man and, unlike me,

have many years of toil ahead of

you. This year's oilman of the

Year, Mr. Leland Janus of Connex-

Killeen.

The crowd gives LELAND "LEE" JANUS a standing ovation as

he walks to the podium. All the big oil companies have

tables. Bennett Holiday is next to Dean Whiting.

Mr. Janus shakes hands with Sir David and accepts an

engraved crystal oil derrick.

MR. JANUS

Thank you, Sir David. Thank you.

It's not a secret vote, so we can

see who is voting for themselves.

It's all right to vote for

yourself. I did not vote for

myself.

The rapt faces of oil men listening to an oil man.

MR. JANUS (CONT'D)

I voted this year, as I do every

year, for Ali Naimi, the Saudi Oil

Minister, who has done more for

shareholder value than all of us

combined.

Laughter as a smiling SAUDI accepts a round of applause.

MR. JANUS (CONT'D)

And that is certainly not a

criticism of any of us in this

room. My father told me when I was

young, never criticize a man until

you have walked a mile in his

shoes. This is something I've

tried to live by, because, if you

do criticize, you're already a

mile away and you've got his

shoes.

LAUGHTER, people glancing... who knew he was so funny?

190 INT. HELLFIRE BAY - DAY 190

A missile shifts, rolling sideways, a slow mechanical

movement of impersonal machinery...

And then one of the HELLFIRE MISSILES silently drops and

falls rapidly away from the plane.

191 INT. MITSUBISHI SUV - DAY 191

Bob races across the white desert.

Ahead, through the windshield, the convoy angles along

the highway.

192 EXT. FISHING BOAT - DAY 192

Fire boats shoot water in the distance. As Wasim makes

his way to the prow of the boat, slowly. the huge LNG

tanker slides into frame, filling the sky.

The name -- THE CONDOLEEZA RICE -- appears.

Wasim pushes fishing nets aside, revealing a stinger

missile fashioned into a shaped charge and fitted to the

prow of the boat.

A SMILEY FACE

scratched into the surface of the Stinger, the same

missile Bob intended to explode in the beginning.

193 INT. MITSUBISHI SUV - DAY 193

Bob is closing on the front of the convoy, maybe a

hundred yards off. He can see Prince Nasir. He pulls a

WHITE SHIRT from the backseat and starts waving it out

the window.

194 INT. CIA TASK FORCE BUNKER - NIGHT 194

People stare at the monitors, tense and restless.

ANGLE - MONITOR

The toy-like convoy snakes across the desert.

FRANKS (O.S.)

Somebody tell me what the hell is

going on.

WILLY (O.S.)

The plane is just really high. And

there's delay on the video

How long?

I don't know. I can find out. I

think from Yemen to here was like

four or five seconds.

195 INT. BRYAN'S VEHICLE - DAY 195

Bryan stares ahead. His POV up the length of the convoy.

The HUM of the highway. He turns and sees, out the

window, the Mitsubishi SUV cutting toward them.

196 INT. CIA TASK FORCE BUNKER - NIGHT 196

ANGLE - MONITOR

The toy-like convoy snakes across the desert. Another car

enters the frame, angling toward the convoy.

FRANKS (O.S.)

What's that other car?

197 INT. PRINCE NASIR'S HUMMER - DAY 197

The SCREAMING baby takes the bottle and quiets. Prince

Nasir makes eye contact with his wife and smiles.

A bodyguard in the front hears something over the radio

and points out to the desert --

Nasir turns and looks at Bob's car fast approaching --

198 INT. MITSUBISHI SUV - DAY 198

Bob angles the car in tighter, waving the white flag.

Nasir's bodyguards point their weapons.

199 INT. PRINCE NASIR'S HUMMER - DAY 199

Prince Nasir sees him. They make eye contact --

A bodyguard begins shouting into a walkie-talkie. Other

vehicles race forward and surround Bob's car, forcing it

to stop.

200 EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - DAY 200

Soldiers with their weapons on Bob. He steps from his car

holding the white shirt in front of him.

It's okay. It's okay.

Bob slowly. approaches Prince Nasir's vehicle. They stare

at one another. Nasir lowers his window.

I remember you. You're the

Canadian.

Tight on Bob. He starts to speak --

A WHITE FLASH

MATCH CUT TO:

201 INT. CIA TASK FORCE BUNKER - NIGHT 201

ANGLE - MONITOR

A TINY POOF of white smoke. And vehicles scatter in crazy

directions. Then a rush of black smoke.

ANGLE - THE ROOM

The crowd of Chiefs and Technicians erupts into

celebration, handshakes and high-fives.

ANGLE - MONITOR

The tendril of black smoke is spreading into a black

cloud. The vehicles are stopped.

202 INT. BANQUET HALL - OIL MAN OF THE YEAR - NIGHT 202

The room is silent. Mr. Janus stares into the crowd.

MR. JANUS

I accept this award on behalf of

the employees of Connex-Killeen,

our people, the finest in the

world...

Guys, could I get you to stand up

for a moment?

At the CONNEX table, Tommy and Jimmy and the others get

to their feet. The crowd APPLAUDS. Bennett applauds Jimmy

who sees him clapping and applauds him right back --

203 EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - DAY 203

The Prince Nasir convoy is scattered like toys. People

broken with shock and awe.

Debris is still falling. Find Bryan moving forward

through smoke and overturned vehicles, the only sound the

BUZZING/RINGING in his ears.

Bryan's POV of a burning crater in the road. Nasir's car

and family are completely incinerated. And nearby Bob's

car is a massive ball of flame.

204 INT. BANQUET HALL - OIL MAN OF THE YEAR - NIGHT 204

Mr. Janus'holds out his hands to still APPLAUSE.

MR. JANUS

I want to thank our strategic

friends from around the globe who

are here tonight.

More APPLAUSE. Emir Meshal Al-Subaai gives a little wave

to both sides of the room.

MR. JANUS (CONT'D)

I hope I'm not giving away trade

secrets when I say Liquefied

Natural Gas truly is the fuel of

the future.

Mr. Janus raises his crystal derrick in a toast.

MR. JANUS (CONT'D)

And to everyone else who helps

make this the most exciting and

important and profitable industry

on earth.

The crowd again begins CLAPPING for itself. Light catches

the crystal oil derrick and refracts --

205 EXT. DESERT - DAY 205

Bryan staggers away. We're ON HIS BACK as he slogs, then

WE COME AROUND...

Bryan's face is TIGHT in half the frame while behind him

the wreckage and people and smoke trail away.

Bryan wipes at a tear, and another. Then suddenly, he's

weeping, losing it completely. He stumbles blindly on.

Bryan wanders through the desert, a hazy form merging

with the heat shimmering horizon.

206 EXT. FISHING BOAT - DAY 206

Tight on Farooq's eyes. Farooq is terrified. He stares at

Wasim who is watching the tanker where workers and

touring dignitaries pay no attention.

On another boat a father and son fishermen going about

their business. The father smiles briefly at Wasim.

Wasim sees that Farooq is frozen. Wasim shouts at him in

Urdu. Farooq hesitates a moment longer, then his hand

pushes the throttle forward.

The dhow accelerates, breaking free of the flotilla,

heading straight for the CONDOLEEZA RICE (LNG CARRIER).

At the bowsprit, Wasim has the wind and sunlight and

spray in his face.

WASIM'S POV of the CONTAINMENT BUBBLES which have a

covering of frozen, sparkling condensate and look exactly

like SNOW COVERED MOUNTAINS.

On Wasim's face a slow, almost beatific smile begins to

spread. He seems completely at peace as he passes into

the shadow of the tanker.

On the CONDOLEEZA RICE sailors become alarmed, running in

different directions, but it's too late

The little boat speeds for the side of the tanker and

just as it makes impact --

CUT TO WHITE:

207 EXT. MADRASSA - DAY 207

Sprinklers water a green field in the middle of a desert.

208 EXT. WASIM'S VIDEOTAPED "WILL" - DAY 208

Wasim appears against a plain background. He looks very

young. He addresses the camera.

During the funeral I want everyone

to be quiet. And I should be lying

on my right side.

209 INT. WOODMAN HOUSE - USA - DAY 209

Riley plays with a Thomas Train set. Julie reads in a

comfortable chair. Packing boxes are still unopened.

WASIM (V.0.)

You should throw dust on my body

three times while saying, from the

dust we created you and to dust

you will return.

Riley sees his mother looking past him. He turns, sees

his father, and runs toward him. Bryan gathers his son up

in his arms.

WASIM (V.0.) (CONT'D)

From the dust a new person will be

created.

Bryan looks through the rooms at his wife who has taken a

few steps toward him. She hesitates --

210 INT. BOB'S OFFICE - CIA - DAY 210

A MAN cleans out Bob's office, putting files into boxes.

Another MAN puts photos into a box.

ANGLE - PHOTO

BOB WITH A FRIEND, smiling. Another photo of BOB WITH

COWORKERS is placed on top.

Tighter on this picture of Bob --

WASIM (V.0.)

Everyone should mention that I

died pure of heart and that the

next world is the true life...

211 EXT. BENNETT'S CONDO - D.C. - NIGHT 211

Bennett gets out of a cab. His father is slumped over on

the front stoop.

WASIM (V.0.)

.The next world is the true

life.

Bennett walks up the steps and pauses beside his father.

Come on, man. Come on... Leave the

beer.

His father rouses. Bennett helps him inside and the door

shuts behind them.

CUT TO BLACK:

