Toby waits beside the Nash Ambassador, looking toward a

three-story concrete building. He holds a portable

RADIO, which PLAYS DEAN MARTIN singing "Volare."

Caroline, holding the imitation Geiger counter, stands

across the counter from a MAN who is looking at her

very strangely.

Caroline exits the building, dumps the Geiger counter in

a trash can and strides to the car. She gets in, and

says two words:

Caroline turns the key in the ignition and gets only a

maddening RER-RER-RER-RER noise from the ENGINE:

wearily, she rests her forehead on the steering wheel.

Caroline and Toby have the hood up and are peering into

the engine.

Suddenly a WOMAN in pedal-pushers and a thin, inexpensive

sweater stops. She's vaguely low-class, but friendly and

sympathetic.

Caroline smiles, then her face changes.

Shocked, the Woman says --

Caroline draws back her leg and delivers a terrific,

flat-footed kick to the door, leaving a dent the size

of a dish-pan.

Toby hands the Woman the owner's slip, Caroline gives her

the keys.

Both of them pick up two bags apiece -- all they have in

the world -- and off they go, feeling good.

1957 is all around us: gas is 29.9 cents a gallon; bread

is 19 cents a loaf; cars are curved and heavily chromed;

people occasionally nod and smile at strangers; children

carry hula hoops. In all, a gentler time. Caroline and

Toby stride along briskly, as if they knew where they

were going.

The two of them walk on -- a bit foolish, but, in an

odd way, brave as hell.

A subdued Toby sits in front of the VICE PRINCIPAL.

Silent, the man continues to hold out the telephone to

Toby. Finally he takes it and dials.

Caroline and Toby exit.   Toby sullen; Caroline angry.

Roy doesn't answer.   He just wiggles his eyebrows like

Groucho Marx.

Again, Roy does the Groucho Marx.    He turns to Toby.

Caroline sighs. Toby opens a screenless window and

points the gun up into the night sky, pretending to fire

it over and over. Caroline starts to clear the table.

Roy jumps up to help her.

Caroline and Roy are   kissing on the sofa, and he is all

over her: his hands    are on her breasts, her thighs,

everywhere. Aroused    in spite of herself, Caroline pulls

away, indicating the   light in the other room.

Roy leans back, smiling, and eyes Caroline.

He pulls her to him, starting to kiss her. She fends him

off, looking worriedly toward the room where Toby's light

burns.

Again he pulls her toward him; again she turns her head

from the kiss.

Then it happens.

A spasm of anger passes across his face and he shoves

Caroline away from him. It's a hard shove, but nothing

that could really hurt her. Violence has happened before

between these two, and they recognize it. Caroline is

immediately on guard, and Roy is apologetic.

He slides toward Caroline, kisses her. This time she

accepts the kiss -- feels she has no choice.

Dressed for bed, Toby stands by an open window. He can

hear every WORD of ROY'S, who continues to apologize

between kisses. The room is illuminated by a nearby

streetlamp. The frosty air from the open window causes

his breath to steam. He raises two fingers to his lips,

pretends to take a drag on a cigarette and blows out the

steam from his breath. The VOICES in the other room grow

a bit LOUDER, almost to an argument, and then SUBSIDE

again. Toby takes another drag from his pretend cig-

arette. He looks very young.

Toby wanders toward the rooming house. He stops to watch

TWO fiftyish WOMEN who are working in a garden. One

Woman looks up.

The Woman stops to take a breather, lights a cigarette,

pokes her companion.

Toby smiles.

The two Women exchange a glance.     It's obvious the boy

is lying.

Toby enters.   Four packed suitcases lie on the bed behind

Caroline.

But he's smiling, completely unbothered.

Suddenly Caroline laughs, stands up, and begins to close

the suitcases. Toby laughs, too.

They grab the four heavy suitcases and head out the door.

Both of them are laughing.

Caroline and Toby stand at a ticket counter,

disappointed.

Toby and Caroline groan, then Caroline brightens.

They look at each other.

Toby and Caroline hurry onboard a Greyhound bus with

Seattle as its destination.

The DOORS of the bus close. WHOOSH! The bus begins to

move. Caroline and Toby's faces are at the window:

Seattle or bust.

The house is a nasty little thing with peeling paint.

From inside we hear:

As the three boys troop through the room, they pass Terry

Silver's two SISTERS, who are sprawled sensually on a

sofa.

With that piece of high wit, they're out of the room.

The boys light up three cigarettes (opening a window so

the smoke will disappear), then throw themselves onto the

floor in front of a black-and-white TV.

Superman is ON. When Lois Lane comes on, Terry Taylor

starts moaning as if sexually aroused; Terry Silver jumps

to his knees and licks the TV screen repeatedly, also

moaning. Toby closes his eyes, also as if in sexual

transport.

The three carry on for a few more seconds.

There is a KNOCK    on the front door. Toby sticks his head

around the door,    looking into the living room. A man is

outlined against    the sunset, only his black silhouette is

visible. It is     our first glimpse of DWIGHT.

Has the man heard him?     Toby doesn't know for sure.

Caroline brings Dwight into the kitchen.     He is older

than her, an attractive-enough man. He     is well-built,

has a full head of brown hair, and very    white teeth.

Those are his good points. On the minus     side: his over-

eagerness to please, his nervous smiles    and his clothes.

He wears two-tone shoes, a hand-painted    tie, and a

monogrammed handkerchief, folded beyond    perfection, in

the pocket.

Caroline introduces him to Marian and Kathy.     Then she

introduces Dwight to Toby.

Dwight is all smiles.

As Caroline pours the coffee, Dwight turns to Toby.

Kathy and Marian think it's pretty funny.     They laugh.

Caroline smiles. Toby just stares.

Dwight takes a swallow of the coffee.     His eyes widen.

Marian puts a cigarette into her mouth. Dwight jumps up,

pulls a velvet case from his pocket and extracts a mono-

grammed Zippo. He snaps open the top of the lighter

against his leg, and holds the flame in front of Marian's

face. She lights her cigarette. Then Dwight perform the

Zippo drama in reverse.

What a conversation stopper.     Finally, Kathy speaks to

Toby.

Toby sits up, eager.

She grabs her coat (which Dwight jumps up to hold for

her) and they exit. As Dwight leaves he kisses his hand,

then throws the kiss toward Marian and Kathy. The

instant the front door slams:

We hear SCREAMING. Toby and Terry Taylor race BY the

CAMERA on stolen tricycles, yelling as if they're attack-

ing Indians. Behind them comes Terry Silver, on foot.

Atop a small hill, both boys jump off, letting the

TRICYCLES SMASH into a parked car. Then they run like

hell with Terry Silver bringing up the rear.

Caroline is dressed casually. Toby has on a shirt and

sweater. He is pretending that he's buck-toothed.

Caroline finishes packing a small suitcase.

A car stops and through a window, we see Dwight.

Caroline turns to Toby.

Toby stops the buck-toothed thing and speaks normally.

We see Dwight driving his shiny Buick, Caroline and Toby

beside him. As the CAMERA TRACKS the car with VARIOUS

SHOTS, we hear:

Everybody says hello, shakes hands, then they all head

into the house.

They enter and look around: well,     it's not awful, but

it sure as hell isn't wonderful.     The room is dark, on

the small side, and shows the lack    of a woman's hand.

Caroline looks a bit taken aback,    but tries to hide it

by saying the word "nice" over and    over.

The CAMERA FOLLOWS them FROM room TO room:

He stops at an extra, no-particular-purpose, nondescript

room furnished only by two easy chairs and a card table.

He searches, can't think of how to finish the sentence in

any impressive way. He gives up, finishes weakly:

Skipper snorts with laughter, but cuts it off when Dwight

gives him a look. Toby, trying to be good, bites his lip

to keep from laughing.

The business area is small and rather forlorn. The six

of them walk in pairs -- Dwight and Caroline, Skipper and

Norma, and last, Toby and Pearl. (Toby's eyes are glued

to the movement of Norma's body.)

They glance at each other.

Skipper and Norma glance at each other, then look away.

Caroline takes a cigarette from her purse. Again Dwight

jumps to her service: we are once more treated to the

mini-drama of Dwight unsheathing the Zippo from its

velvet case, opening the top on his pants leg, etc.

In spite of the fact that he's eager for this day to go

well, Dwight's bottom teeth begin to show.

They all shut their pie-holes. The six walk in a tense,

uncomfortable silence for five full beats. Then Pearl

tries to help out:

Nobody seems to care.

Dwight has recovered his good mood. Dressed in a

marksman's coat with a padded shoulder, Dwight is laughing

as he attempts to assemble Toby's Winchester .22.

Toby starts to argue, but Caroline touches his arm.

A sullen Toby stands with Pearl. Dwight is giving his

name and the entry fee to a MAN. As the Man moves away,

Caroline stops him and holds out some money.

Caroline just smiles. The Man shrugs, takes her money

and writes down her name.

The shooting match has begun. The contestants have ten

turns to fire ten shots apiece at a large paper bull's-eye

fifty yards away. The scores and rankings are on a

portable scoreboard.

A contestant finishes SHOOTING. There is a pause.

Everyone watches as his score is raised from behind the

concrete wall on which the bull's-eye hangs.

The score comes:     84.

There is a smattering of applause, and it's Dwight's

turn.

From his stance, Dwight looks as if he is a pretty good

shot. He's nervous, though, because Caroline is going

to shoot, and he squeezes off his TEN SHOTS in RAPID

SUCCESSION, hardly pausing to breathe. A pause, and then

his score is raised: 73. Dwight smiles an inappropriate

smile and hands the Winchester to Caroline.

There are a couple of whistles as Caroline takes her

position, and someone in the crowd yells out, "Oh, Mama,

shake that thang!" Caroline ignores it, taking her

shooting stance, which is surprisingly graceful and

professional-looking.

She SHOOTS her TEN BULLETS, taking time to breathe once,

deeply, between each shot. The pause, and her score is

raised: 93. There is a moment of surprised silence, and

then the crowd gives Caroline a sincere round of

applause.

SAME SCENE - LATER

Dwight looks stunned, and Toby is almost equally

surprised.

On the scoreboard, we see that Caroline is in second

place and by only two shots. As the next-to-last round

finishes, Caroline is surrounded by a few people who are

complimenting her shooting. Dwight's smile is even

bigger: Oh, he wanted to be the one to win.

The last round starts. A MAN, evidently the one in first

place, heads to the shooting alley for his turn. As he

passes Caroline, trying to rattle her, he speaks

confidently.

Several people laugh, and the Man, bested, turns away.

Everyone turns quiet to watch the Man shoot. He is

evidently the one who's nervous, though, for after he

SHOOTS and waits, the score is raised: 95. There is

an immediate stir -- Caroline can win if she shoots a

virtually perfect round.

Dwight's name is called. He takes his position, but

clowns around, SHOOTING first left-handed, then right-

handed, then with both eyes closed.

His score is raised: 24. There is scattered laughter,

and Dwight leads it -- hell, it's all a joke to him, his

attitude says.

Caroline takes her stance. Rock-steady, she SHOOTS her

TEN SHOTS and waits. And then it comes: 98. She's won.

The second-place Man wheels away angrily, but everyone

else congratulates the laughing Caroline, as an official

presents her with a small trophy of a gold rifle on a

pedestal, and a huge ham.

In the midst of the hubbub, Toby manages to get close

enough to congratulate his mother. Caroline glances

toward Dwight as she whispers to Toby:

Caroline, Toby and Pearl enter. Norma is cooking

Thanksgiving dinner. Dwight WALKS HEAVILY down the hall

to his bedroom and SLAMS the DOOR.

They all laugh.

Though there are some occasional sentences like    "Could I

have the potatoes, please?" or "This dressing is    really

delicious," mostly there is just silence and the    noise

of SILVERWARE ON PLATES. Dwight is working hard     on the

wine.

Everybody relaxes, and general conversation begins.

Norma plays "Blue Monday" on an upright piano whilst Toby

sings it. After finishing the song, Norma launches into

"On Moonlight Bay." Everybody joins in.

Toby, Terry Silver and Terry Taylor lounge against the

wall, smoking.

Terry Silver takes a long slow drag on his cigarette.

The other boys glance at each other: they don't buy it.

Toby takes a drag on his cigarette.

Toby nods. Silver     and Taylor howl with laughter.

Furious, Toby says    "Fuck you" over and over. He pulls

out a rat-tail and    scratches the words "FUCK YOU" onto

the soft paint of    the bathroom wall.

Toby stands at the top of a small hill with Terry Silver

and Terry Taylor. They are too casual, their faces too

innocent: something's up.

They wait until a middle-aged man raking leaves turns

and disappears around a corner. Then the three of them

open the door of a car, take off the emergency brake, and

start it rolling down the hill.

The car rolls silently down the hill. It CRASHES into

another car at the bottom, making a LOUD NOISE.

The three boys run like the wind out of sight.

Caroline, Toby, Marian and Kathy sit at the table eating

dinner.

Caroline takes out a cigarette. Then everybody jumps

as Toby yells and jumps up knocking his chair over

backwards.

Toby grabs Caroline's lighter, and begins to imitate

Dwight: saying, "Oh!" and "Oh, yes!" and Oh, my!"

and "Here, let me!" and "I'll do that!"

It's a mean, accurate imitation of Dwight. All three

women laugh in spite of themselves. Caroline keeps

saying "Jack, that's enough," and Marian says, "Dwight's

not that bad." But they can't help laughing. Toby

offers the other two women a light, then offers a broom,

the back door, and the refrigerator a light.

The principal, MR. SHIPPY, sits behind his desk. Toby,

looking scared, sits across from him. A secretary lets

Caroline into the room. Mr. Shippy rises and introduces

himself. Caroline doesn't respond to the introduction.

Mr. Shippy looks stymied.   There is a pause.

Dwight    takes a pull from a pint bottle of whiskey and

gives    Toby a sneering, contemptuous look. Toby reaches

over,    SNAPS ON the RADIO. Immediately Dwight SNAPS IT

off.     Then, in the headlight's glare, Toby sees a dark

shape.

Dwight swerves deliberately to hit the animal. There is

a sickening THUMP, and Dwight stops. As he backs up:

Toby moves to where the dead beaver lies on its back,

its eyes open, in the red glow of the taillights. Toby

picks the thing up and lugs it back toward Dwight, who

has the trunk open.

Dwight is still drinking, between swallows, he gives Toby

sneering glances. Dwight is driving very fast. The

road begins a series of curves. Dwight doesn't slow

down, and the TIRES begin to SCREAM on the curves.

The road runs along a steep gorge. Dwight increases

the speed, and the car begins to fishtail.

Dwight keeps glancing from the road to Toby, and back

again.

Again Toby shakes his head, and then gasps as the CAR

SKIDS hideously close to the cliff's edge. Dwight is

oblivious to the danger.

Dwight holds out the velvet-covered Zippo, driving with

one hand, and the car is all over the road. Dwight puts

the lighter back into his pocket. The car slows a bit.

Dwight's Buick pulls to a stop as Norma, Skipper and

Pearl come out to meet them. Dwight is calmer now.

Skipper and Pearl move out on the run. Dwight slits the

beaver from throat to testicles, guts it, then pulls the

skin off.

Skipper and Pearl bring the tub with four blue stars

painted on its side, Dwight plops the skinned beaver

into the water. The hairless carcass stands in the

tub, its chin on the edge. Pearl shudders and turns

away.

Dwight, Toby, Norma, Skipper and Pearl are eating dinner

at the kitchen table. Norma speaks to Toby.

Toby glances around the table, he is subdued.

MISS GRAHAM stands in front of the class.    Toby is midway

back in the room.

There is a pause.     Finally, Toby raises his hand.

From the front of    the room, a tall,   thin, effeminate

boy, ARTHUR GAYLE,    turns to look at   Toby and holds

the gaze for three    full beats, then   turns around and

faces the front.     What the hell does   it mean?

The room is dark. Skipper is asleep. Toby lies in a

cot. Dwight leans against the wall near the head of

Toby's bed. He speaks in a low, reasonable voice:

SERIES OF SHORT SCENES TO INDICATE TIME PASSING

Toby and Pearl are playing a card game called "Slap-

Jack." Toby slaps a card down hard, yelling "I win

again!" and Pearl pouts.

Toby takes out his comb, combs his hair a bit, then

holds it out to Pearl, an exaggerated look of innocence

on his face.

Pearl covers her bald spot with one hand.

Pearl is on the verge of tears. There are THREE TREMEN-

DOUSLY LOUD FLAT-FOOTED KICKS against the front door.

Pearl opens the door revealing a beaming Dwight holding

two dishpans piled high with snow. We see through the

doorway that the sun is shining and there isn't snow

anywhere.

Dwight, Toby, Skipper, Norma, and Pearl are enjoying

the snowcream.

Everybody laughs.

Everybody laughs again.    They eat in silence for a beat.

Dwight takes out a magazine entitled Boy's Life.    He

hands it to Toby.

Toby opens the book at random, reads from it.

Toby nods, enthusiastic, happy.

Toby stands in front of a full-length mirror wearing a

huge Scout uniform that's been unsuccessfully cut down

for him.

The shirt-sleeves have been shortened but the shoulders

extend two inches beyond the ends of his shoulders. The

pants legs have been cut off and hemmed but the crotch of

the trousers hangs down three inches too low, giving him

a stumpy, dwarfish look. Toby yells to someone O.S.

As Pearl watches Dwight also stands in front of a mirror,

adjusting his hat. He is resplendent in a brand-new

Scout uniform. Toby stalks into the room. Pearl laughs

loudly.

Toby throws himself down on the sofa.

Dwight picks up the copy of Boy's Life and thumbs through

it, He reads:

Dwight looks at Toby expectantly.   Toby hesitates, then

gives up.

Toby walks outside.   Dwight follows.

Dwight's Buick pulls up and Caroline bursts out the front

door. She runs to the car and hugs Toby.

Dwight comes around the car, kisses Caroline, and the

three head into the house.

Dwight, Caroline and Marian are having a drink. Toby

plays FATS DOMINO'S "Blue Monday" on the RADIO, the

VOLUME LOW.

Toby, not looking away from the radio, nods.

Caroline glances at Toby, then at Dwight, then back

again.

Toby and Caroline walk slowly, idly down the rail tracks.

Toby avoids her eyes.

A pause.

There is a pause as they look at each other.

Caroline smiles, smooths his hair, then goes into the

house. Toby continues to walk. Suddenly, he spins

around and tears out toward the house. By God, he'll

tell her just what's been going on. He bangs through the

front door and up the stairs.

Toby stops dead as he sees Dwight and Caroline locked

in a busy kiss. He stops dead and shrinks back into the

hallway, defeated.

Toby is alone in the room    in his Boy Scout shirt and hat

in front of a mirror. A     copy of Boy's Life magazine is

open in front of him with    drawings of Indians performing

sign language. Watching     himself in the mirror, Toby

makes a sign.

The MONTAGE ENDS.

Skipper and Norma are carrying Caroline's suitcases into

the house from Dwight's Buick. From inside the house we

hear a WOMAN'S LAUGHTER.

Caroline is trying to stifle her laughter, as she stares

at the wilderness of white. Dwight and Toby, Skipper,

Norma, and Pearl all stand watch.

But she can't stop laughing.    Her laughter has just a

tinge of hysteria.

Dwight and Caroline are being married. Caroline wears

a pale blue suit, and Dwight looks good in a navy single-

breasted. Aside from Toby and Dwight's children, the

only guests are Marian, Kathy, and three people we

haven't seen before -- friends of Dwight's.

The bed is a rat's nest of twisted sheets as Dwight   and

Caroline make love. He takes his lips away from

Caroline's breast and moves so that his head is at   the

bottom of the bed. Holding her foot up, he kisses    the

instep, then runs his tongue over the same spot and   then

down under the arch of her foot. A sexy scene.

Caroline draws him up   to her, and they kiss. Then

Dwight turns Caroline   on her side, away from him, pre-

paring to enter her.    Caroline makes a small sound of

protest, turning back   toward him.

Dwight continues to stroke Caroline, his hands everywhere,

but now she is unresponsive.

Dwight murmurs an assent.    Caroline is appalled.

Disgusted, Caroline turns back away from Dwight. He

shifts down on the bed a few inches, again preparing to

enter her.

Toby is eating toast at the kitchen table. Norma has

made a big breakfast, and she hurriedly pours the coffee

when she hears Dwight and Caroline's bedroom DOOR OPEN.

Caroline's eyes    are red and swollen. Dwight turns ON a

RADIO, sips his    coffee, and chats with Norma. Toby gives

Norma's rear-end    an appreciative glance, then comes up

behind Caroline,    speaking sotto voce:

Smiling, Toby waits for some response to his teasing,

but there is none. She turns away and sits at the table.

Toby, his news bag slung over his shoulder, stands

talking idly with two boys from school, OSCAR BOOKER and

JIMMY VOORHEES. One of them says, "Uh-oh," and jerks his

head to indicate where Toby and the other boy should

look.

They look in the direction indicated, and see Arthur

Gayle coming down the road toward them, followed by a

small black dog called Pepper. As the boys watch

Arthur's approach:

By this time Arthur is next to them. Smiling a superior

smile, he stops and glances at all three of them as if

they were just the oddest things he's ever seen. Then

his eye falls on Toby's yellow hands.

Both of Toby's friends laugh.

Two things happen instantly: the superior smile vanishes

from Arthur's face, and Toby's friends exchange a single

expectant look: "Here it comes."

Without warning, Arthur swings a fist at Toby, catching

him on the ear. Arthur's second blow hits him in the

back of the head.

The fight is on.

Arthur throws   punches sidearm, with lots of wrist action,

but there are   so many of them. Before Toby can react,

Arthur has hit   him four times, including one wild haymaker

that puts Toby   on his knees.

While Toby's still on his knees, Arthur tries to kick

him in the stomach. The kick is deadened by the papers

in Toby's bag, Arthur bends over Toby, screaming as if he

has lost his mind:

Toby gets up, and again Arthur sails in with those wild

roundhouse swings. Then Toby gets in a solid punch to

Arthur's face that rocks the bigger boy back on his

heels. Arthur grabs his head and roars like a wounded

buffalo. Almost immediately Arthur's eye puffs and

begins to swell shut. Snot streaming from both nostrils,

still roaring, Arthur flies at Toby again. Toby closes

with him, to hold those flailing arms still, and the

two stagger around the street like drunken dancers.

They separate, exchange a few blows, then grapple with

each other again.

Then Arthur hooks Toby's leg, trips him, and the two

roll off the shoulder of the road and down an embankment.

They hit the muddy bottom of the gully still hitting,

flailing, kicking -- first Toby is on top, then Arthur,

then Toby, then Arthur. By now they are panting, each

breath is a heave, a gasp. Then, suddenly, Arthur gives

out completely -- he falls on top of Toby, pressing him

deeper into the mud. With his last bit of strength Toby

throws the bigger boy off him and sits up, while PEPPER

BARKS FURIOUSLY at him and threatens to nip his leg.

Toby staggers to his feet and starts to climb the gully.

He looks relieved -- at least it's over.

No, it's not.

From behind him he hears three words.

Toby turns   to see a bloody-faced, swollen-eyed Arthur

clambering   up the hill after him, like some monster

that won't   die. Both boys reach the top and stand

facing one   another.

Arthur's words are not angry anymore.    Toby's worn out

too...

Toby glances at Oscar and Jimmy. Their faces are gleeful

but he doesn't care what the hell they think.

Arthur immediately turns and walks away, but Toby ignores

them and walks away in the opposite direction, delivering

his hated newspapers.

Caroline is painting the white walls a soothing buff

color.  On the sofa lie half-finished curtains she's

making.  She is totally focused. She hears Toby, turns,

sees his filthy clothes. Her shoulders sag.

Caroline refuses to argue. She picks up a piece of

material and holds it up to the window to see if her

choice of color was a good one.

A worried Toby sits dreading Dwight's arrival. Behind

him, on the wall, Toby has pinned the covers of fifteen

copies of the Scout magazine: so that, above Toby's

head are the words BOY'S LIFE fifteen times.

There is a MURMUR of VOICES, and FOOTSTEPS COMING toward

Toby. Toby expects the worst. But, surprisingly, Dwight

is beaming.

Dwight sits down next to Toby, eager for details.

Dwight hoots with laughter and slaps his leg.

Still excited, Dwight is holding forth for the whole

family. (We hear THUNDER of an approaching storm)

Dwight slumps his shoulders, drops his chin, and looks up

through his eyebrows, a simpering expression on his face.

Dwight goes on, relishing the story.

A steady downpour falls outside the porch. Dwight and

Toby, both stripped to the waist, are boxing. Dwight is

totally serious about this, absolutely sincere.

The sweat streaming off the two, Dwight patiently corrects

Toby's movements, or catches the boy's fist to suggest

better form. Their feet shuffle, squeak on the floor.

Caroline is on the telephone, her voice low. (Behind

her, through a doorway, we can see Dwight and Toby

boxing.)

Both Dwight and Toby sweating heavily.    They lean against

a wall, resting.

Without warning, Dwight lunges at Toby and swings the

side of his arm toward Toby's throat. Toby dodges

wildly, falling backward over a box of sports equipment.

Finally Toby gives a half-hearted "Hah!" and swings the

side of his forearm toward Dwight's throat. Dwight

catches the arm easily.

Again Toby hesitates, again he says "Hah!" and gives a

lukewarm swing at Dwight's throat.

Toby's eyes flare up, then he lowers his head, biting

his lip, sniffling a bit.

Without warning, Toby lunges at Dwight, screaming "HAH!"

trying for the man's throat. Caught off guard, Dwight

stops the main force of Toby's arm, but is slammed onto

the ground stunned.

Dwight manages a grin, but he is not happy to have been

bested.

Dwight and Caroline lie on the bed, kissing passionately.

It is clear that Caroline is as excited as Dwight.

Smoking a cigarette and wearing a nightgown, Caroline

walks to the front door.

She opens the front door and stands looking out. Then

she puts her finger on the door and slowly pushes it shut

with one finger. She does this once more. Then she does

it again. She turns, walks toward Toby's room.

Caroline enters and stands by Toby's bed. She bends over

the boy and she starts to touch his hair, decides not to.

She stares at Toby for a few beats.

Caroline enters, looks down at the sleeping Dwight. She

gets back into the bed and Dwight throws a sleepy hand

over her. Caroline hesitates, but forces herself to put

a hand over Dwight's.

THROUGH a window, Dwight, dressed in his coveralls,

leaves for work. Caroline is sewing on a machine whilst

Toby leans against the kitchen sink.

Caroline points to the sink.

Norma appears in the kitchen door, wearing her cap and

gown. She strikes a pose.

Norma snaps her fingers and goes back to her bedroom.

Caroline turns her attention back to the curtains.

(LATER)

"The Lawrence Welk Show" is ON the TELEVISION. Dwight,

Caroline, Skipper, Norma and Pearl and Toby watch an

Irish tenor sing a lugubrious ballad. Dwight stands in a

corner of the room, his saxophone to his lips. He's

playing along with the MUSIC, but silently.

Occasionally he gets overcome and accidentally causes

the saxophone to squawk.

The Irish ballad ends, and Lawrence Welk's Champagne

Orchestra strikes up a lively polka. Dwight takes a sip

of his drink and grabs Caroline, pulls her to her feet,

and begins to dance with her.

A polka can be a decorous, contained dance. He dances

Caroline vigorously around the living room, out into the

kitchen, around the table, and then back again.

Dwight is really good, and Caroline matches him every

step of the way. Skipper turns the  VOLUME UP and Dwight

kicks the dance into an even higher, wilder gear: The

kids clap on the beat, the two whirl and stamp and spin.

Faster and faster -- Caroline's heel catches an end table

and sends it spinning and faster they go. Caroline's

head is thrown back; she's laughing with pleasure.

As the MUSIC reaches its CLIMAX, Dwight spins Caroline

back to the sofa, lets her go, and WHAM! she lands back

where she was seated exactly on the last note of the

song. Amid the general laughter and applause, Caroline

smiles at Toby.

Dwight and Toby face one another in the living room.

Both wear their Scout uniforms. Dwight holds a box of

chocolate-coated cherries in one hand.

Caroline and Skipper enter, carrying throw pillows and

materials.

Skipper leaves the room. Caroline sits down, begins to

try various materials as coverings for the pillows.

Caroline doesn't even look up. She threads a needle and

begins to sew. Whilst Dwight paces around the room.

Toby stops suddenly. He looks at Dwight for a beat or

two, and then speaks in a different tone:

Dwight glances at Caroline, who still looks at her

sewing.

Dwight stops short as Caroline says one word.

Dwight and Toby glance at each other nervously.      What

is this?

Are you sick, Mom?                   Don't you feel good?

A furious Caroline raises her head, doubles up both

fists, and yells.

Dwight and Toby grab their caps and hotfoot it out the

door.

As PEPPER BARKS TWICE:

As PEPPER BARKS ONCE:

Toby and Arthur are eating ice cream cones and smoking

cigarettes at the same time. They walk slowly,

desultorily. Though still effeminate, Arthur has dropped

much of the flounciness that he uses in public.

Arthur and Toby laugh.   As they walk on, though, Toby's

face is thoughtful.

Toby and ten other boys are practicing lay-ups. All the

boys, Toby included, wear basketball uniforms. All the

other boys wear gym shoes. Toby is barefooted. He is

however, a smooth, skillful player.

Toby tosses his last newspaper into a yard, folds his

sack, and stands wearily for a few beats.

A large, ugly DOG next to the box of baseball bats and

gloves GROWLS and snaps at Toby as he goes past.

As Toby enters the room, Norma exits, wearing theatrical

makeup and a gypsy costume. Behind her, drink in hand,

sits Dwight, wearing a suit and tie, watching the

TELEVISION NEWS with the SOUND VERY LOW.

But Dwight doesn't answer.   Toby waits, then shrugs and

leaves the room.

Toby gets out his book of Indian signs.    He reaches up

for his rifle, but it is gone.

Toby walks in, Dwight is petting the dog.

Toby sits on the front stoop. Caroline approaches

carrying groceries. She notices Toby's expression.

For a moment Caroline doesn't respond.       Then she nods her

head.

Toby nods.   Caroline heads inside, loaded for bear.

Norma, dressed up    for her play, and Pearl are setting the

table. Dwight is     fixing himself another drink. Caroline

enters, puts down    the groceries, and goes to the dish

cabinet. Calmly,     in total control, she takes a PLATE and

SMASHES it against    the countertop.

Caroline calmly SMASHES another PLATE on the countertop.

Before he finishes the sentence, Caroline SMASHES a GLASS

on the countertop.

Caroline picks up a bowl.

Caroline exits leaving Dwight, Norma, and Pearl with

their mouths open.

Caroline walks to Toby, sits next to him on the stoop.

Toby nods.   Caroline looks up at the evening sky and then

shrugs.

Toby gives her a dirty look, but Caroline's smile makes

Toby grin.

In spite of his disappointment over the rifle, in spite

of all that Caroline had said about staying with Dwight,

Toby is happy to see Caroline completely back to her old

self again, joking with him. He grins and, with the palm

of his hand, he gives her shoulder a gentle shove. She

returns the gesture. And the two of them sit on the

steps, staring into the twilight.

Arthur is playing the piano. He and Toby sing an old song

called "I Wandered Today To the Hill, Maggie." Both of

them are enjoying it. As they finish the song, Arthur

says a dry "Will you be able to use your musical

abilities at the A&P?" Toby laughs and gives him a hard

elbow in the ribs.

Toby is using a nail clipper over a wastebasket when he

hears:

He looks up just in time to see a flashlight fly through

the air toward him. He catches it. Dwight stands in

the doorway.

Dwight switches the room light off.

