Written by

Tilley is doing neck exercises, rolling his head from

left to right as he drives. He sees a red light ahead

and starts to slow down, continuing to roll his head.

BB sees the light is red and starts to back into the

street.

Tilley rolls his head back as he slows to 15 miles an

hour.

BB backs into the street thinking that Tilley's car is

going to stop.

Tilley is still rolling his head.

Tilley's Cadillac and BB's Cadillac CRASH into one

another. The entire right rear of BB's shiny, baby-blue

Cadillac is smashed. Both men are shocked and momen-

tarily confused. After a beat, both Tilley and BB bolt

from their cars. Tilley looks at his buckled hood. BB

races up to Tilley's face.

He moves toward Tilley.

He turns to walk away from Tilley, walks and then turns

back and kicks in the headlight of Tilley's car.

He goes for BB, jumps him and they both fall on to the

trunk of BB's car. People have started to gather and

immediately jump in and pull BB and Tilley apart.

People continue to pull them apart.

He holds BB's arms. Another MAN grabs for Tilley and

tries to pull him off BB.

Tilley makes another jump for BB.    Again, people try

pulling them apart.

BB looks at his brand new Cadillac with the smashed-in

side.

He turns back and looks at Tilley.

Seated at a booth are three aluminum siding salesmen

having their late morning breakfast. SAM PICKLES, a

heavyset man in his 50's, delicately butters his toast,

and is shaking his head sadly.

GIL, who is pouring half a pound of sugar into his coffee,

looks up.

MOUSE, who is picking his teeth with a matchbook, squints

at Sam with an investigative look.

Tilley gets out of his car and enters the diner.

He starts walking to the booth where the other tin men

are. On his way he yells over to the waitress.

FLORENCE, who doesn't have too much energy, calls back

to Tilley.

She trails the last word. Sam is still talking about

his problem with "Bonanza."

Tilley slips into the booth next to Sam.    He indicates

for Sam to give him more room.

He pulls a piece of paper from his pocket.

Florence comes over and puts down some coffee in front

of Tilley.

Florence starts to walk away.

Gil still talking about BB.

We see BB pulling up to a building in his banged-up,

brand new Cadillac. There are three or four nice

Cadillacs parked outside of the run-down building.

The office is filled with second-hand furniture, mis-

matched desks and a conglomeration of styles. In one

corner of the room there are two or three GIRLS working

the telephones -- canvassing -- talking to people on the

phone to see if they're interested in a demonstration on

the benefits of aluminum siding. They all speak in a

very congenial tone of voice.

CAMERA MOVES TO ANOTHER GIRL.

CAMERA MOVES TO GIRL #3.

CAMERA MOVES TO another corner of the room where we see

4 "tin men" salesmen sitting around one of the desks

playing cards. MOE is beginning to tell a joke. He is

a man in his 50's.

BB enters the scene and goes over and gets himself a cup

of coffee.

BB join the tin men to listen to Moe's joke.

They all laugh. LOONEY, a thin guy who twitches and

blinks a lot, stands up.

BB, who is not laughing, stands behind Cheese who throws

50 cents into the card game.

Moe throws his hand in, too.

Cheese throws his hand down.

He takes a sip of his coffee.

BB's Cadillac moves through the neighborhood, and we see

homes that all look to be about 30 to 40 years old.

Moe is with BB in the Cadillac.   BB is driving.   Moe is

looking through some papers.

He indicates his throat.

Slightly run-down.   We're looking THROUGH the LENS of a

35mm camera.

The SCREEN SHAKES as BB moves the camera.

A HOUSEWIFE is looking through the curtains, suspiciously.

CAMERA MOVES TOWARDS the window and we see Moe and BB

moving the 35mm camera around on a tripod. We can

faintly hear their talk.

BB and Moe at the camera and tripod.

We see the Housewife coming out of her front door.

The Housewife approaches BB and Moe suspiciously.

Moe moves the tripod.

BB and Moe are sitting on a sofa sipping coffee, looking

as if they were members of the family. The Housewife and

her HUSBAND are sitting across the dining room table from

Carly. Carly is going  through papers, adding up figures.

ANGLE ON MOE AND BB ON SOFA

Tilley is packing up his sample case. A middle-aged

HUSBAND and wife sit on a couch across from him.

The Husband and wife stand to show Tilley to the door.

Sam is singing to the RADIO. Tilley opens the back door

and throws his sample case inside. He gets in the

driver's seat and slams the car door angrily.

He demonstrates with his fingers.

Tilley STARTS the CAR and pulls out.

This is a piano bar with an intimate restaurant at one

end. The PIANIST is playing "The Girl From Ipanema."

The last word of the verse -- "Ah" -- has great emphasis

put on it and is lengthened considerably. The people

sitting around the piano all join the pianist and say

"Ah" in unison. CAMERA MOVES OVER TO a table where Mouse,

Sam, Tilley, Gil and a few other tin men set. WING, the

head of Gibraltar Aluminum, a tall, strong, imposing

figure, holds court. The table is filled with papers,

folders, etc., as if Wing's office desk had been trans-

ported to the bar. He's reviewing a paper from a job

that Mouse has done.

He picks up his check book ledger and writes out a check.

Finishes writing check and hands it to Mouse.

Mouse takes the check and pockets it.   Wing turns to

Tilley and Sam.

Wing writes out a check and gives it to Tilley.

Wing changes amount of check and hands it to Tilley.

Tilley pockets the check.

BB's Cadillac moves along the street.

BB and Moe are in the car driving along.

He hits the brakes suddenly.

BB backs his car halfway up the street. He stops in the

driveway of the Pimlico Hotel parking lot.

He puts the car into park and opens the car door.

He gets out of the car, quickly walks over to Tilley's

Cadillac, and with a swift kick, he kicks the headlight

that isn't already broken.

Tilley, Sam, Mouse and Gil are about to leave the hotel.

They're putting their coats on just inside the closed

door. Tilley is halfway into his coat.

We hear the    sound of BREAKING GLASS. Tilley responds to

the sound.     He looks out of the glass doors and sees BB

kicking in    the headlight of his car. BB runs back

towards his    car.

He races out of the door of the hotel towards BB's car

which pulls away and speeds down the street. Several

of the tin men run after Tilley. He stands in the street

watching the car disappear.

of the porches of one row house on top of another.

Tilley is letting himself into his house. He goes into

the kitchen where Nora is sitting, drinking a cup of

coffee and working on a crossword puzzle. He takes off

his coat and throws it on a chair.

He goes over to the refrigerator and gets himself some

orange juice.

Beat.

He walks over to the back door and looks out.

Nora gets up and puts the cups in the sink -- gives a

big sigh.

Tilley is in the tub, lathering himself.   Nora enters

and sits on the side of the tub.

Nora picks up the back brush, puts soap on it and starts

scrubbing Tilley's back.

Nora drops the brush in the tub and walks out of the

bathroom.

We see Tilley's Cadillac cruising the streets, obviously

looking for someone.

Tilley is driving with Gil in the passenger seat.

Tilley turns the car.

As Tilley pulls up we see BB's car parked outside of the

building.

He reaches into the backseat of the car and takes out a

crowbar.

He gets out of the car, crosses to BB's Cadillac, and

smashes in the windshield and all of the windows of the

car.

Tilley runs back to his car and drives away.

Of a map of a 15 block area of Baltimore. Colored pins

are in place indicating various homes that have been

provided with aluminum siding. Another pin goes into

place.

ANOTHER ANGLE

We see BAGEL. He's a little guy with a black Fedora and

baggy pants held up with suspenders. BB stands with him.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Moe, Looney and Carly are talking to STANLEY FRANKS, a

young guy in his early 20's. He is dressed in the "Ivy

League" look of the times.

Moe puts Stanley on the defensive.

BB walks over to the guys, having just poured himself

some coffee.

Stanley is quite taken by their information.   BB puts

his cup down and grabs his coat.

BB and Moe approach BB's Cadillac. He sees that all the

windows have been smashed in. Moe looks to BB. Looney

walks up from behind.

BB reaches into the car and picks up a handful of broken

glass. He tosses it up and down in his hands.

BB throws the glass down on the ground.

Looney just nods for them to go, and they start to walk

over to Looney's Cadillac.

BB nods and they start back inside.

of a pool ball ricocheting off an eight ball. The eight

ball drops into the pocket. Tilley throws down his pool

stick. We  see his partner is Mouse. Gil sits in a chair

against a wall.

He goes to rack to re-set. Mouse     goes over and puts a

nickel in the juke box. A RECORD     slips into position,

and Harry Belafonte's "Banana Boat    Song" begins. Mouse,

in unison with the record, sings,    and is totally caught

up in the song.

He sings very loudly, especially on the chorus.

Sam is going through some papers on a desk, and comes

across an IRS letter addressed to Tilley. He notices

that it hasn't been opened. He looks at the postdate

mark -- it's five weeks old, dated January 3, 1963.

We can hear the "BANANA BOAT SONG" through the door, with

MOUSE SCREECHING along with it. Sam takes the letter and

goes through the door to the pool hall.

He approaches Tilley who's just finished racking the

balls.

He nods for Tilley to go over to him. They start to

walk together through the darkened areas of the Pool

Hall.

He hands the letter to Tilley.

Tilley opens the envelope and looks at the document.

He throws his arms up in the air in exasperation.

We see Nora leaving her house,  walking down the    steps

and getting into her car. She   STARTS the ENGINE    and

pulls away.  CAMERA HOLDS for  a moment, and then    INTO

FRAME comes Moe's car with BB  sitting shotgun.     They

follow Nora.

Nora enters. Ten seconds later, BB enters. He pulls a

shopping cart from the stall, and follows Nora.

ANGLE ON MOE

as he walks up to the front of the supermarket and looks

through the window.

ANGLE ON FROZEN FOOD SECTION

Nora is stopped with her cart and is deciding on vege-

tables. BB has a pile of frozen dinners in his arms.

She continues to choose her frozen foods.     BB continues

talking to her.

Moe is looking through the window of the supermarket.

From his POV we see BB and Nora. BB says something and

Nora laughs. Then Nora says something and BB laughs,

holding her arm.

A man sits behind the wheel of a plain-looking Ford.

Stanley, the new tin man, pulls up in his car behind

him, gets out and walks to the other man's car. He

kneels down and talks to the driver of the car. There

seems to be a serious exchange but with the sound of

TRAFFIC and the cars passing THROUGH FRAME, we're un-

able to hear what is taking place. Stanley nods, taps

the side of the car, car drives off. Stanley goes back

to his car and drives off.

Tilley is selling to a MAN and his WIFE. The Man wears

a seersucker suit and a bow tie -- he is a mousie little

man, and his Wife is the female equivalent.

He opens the door for Tilley and Tilley walks out.

As the door closes behind Tilley, he goes to where

Sam's car is parked and gets in the passenger seat.

He's very excited.

Tilley shows him the written contract. Written across

the front of the contract in big, bold, black letters

are the words: "THIS JOB IS FREE." Sam looks at Tilley.

He kisses his hands with wild smacking sounds.     He's

ecstatic.

WIDEN to include Man and Wife from before.

The Wife goes into the kitchen.

The Man turns to sit down, and as he does so, Sam throws

a $5 bill on the ground.

He bends to pick up the $5 note.

The place is crowded... jumping with activity. A local

band is playing on a tiny stage. BB's on the floor

dancing with a girl. He's doing some good moves, and

it's obvious that he's a real crowd pleaser. Sitting

at the bar are Looney, Stanley and Carly.

Stanley laughs and looks at Carly.

The song ends.

ANGLE ON BB

He pats his dancing partner on her rear, she walks back

to her table, and BB walks over to where Moe is sitting.

BB picks up his beer can, holds it up to Moe as if he's

going to make a toast.

Moe smiles, picks up his can, they tap their cans, and

both take a swig of their beers.

ANGLE ON BAR

Stanley is really enjoying the stories Carly and Looney

are telling.

Sam is driving and Tilley is rubbing his hands together

with excitement.

They're looking at the girls, sizing them up.

He laughs.

ANGLE ON DOOR

Tilley and Sam come through the door and walk over to

the bar.

He looks around the room at the women.

ANGLE ON BB AND MOE

ANGLE ON SAM AND TILLEY AT BAR

He looks in the direction of BB.

Sam looks over to BB.

ANGLE ON BB AND MOE

BB's looking through the crowd and sees Tilley.

ANGLE ON TILLEY

Both BB and Tilley weave their way through the crowd to

get to one another. In the confusion of all the people,

they both go right past one another and then look around

for one another. They see that they're in the opposite

direction, and end up going towards one another again.

Moe and Sam wander over to their guys.

He pushes Tilley.

BB pushes him.     Tilley starts to go for BB and they

scuffle about.     Moe and Sam try to pull the guys apart.

ANGLE ON LOONEY AND CARLY

They move through the crowd to BB and Moe. The band

keeps playing. Moe and Sam, with the help of Looney

and Carly, pull Tilley and BB apart.

They both head out the door. The other tin men follow,

and others who have been paying attention to this alter-

cation, also follow.

Tilley and BB   come out of the club and start to look for

a place in the   lot where there's some room to fight. The

crowd eagerly   follows right on the heels of BB and Tilley.

BB and Tilley   both take off their sports jackets.

BB and Tilley both take up  fighting stances and circle

one another looking to take  a shot. A police car pulls

into the lot. The sound of   the tires on the gravel

catches Moe's attention and  he sees it's the police.

Tilley and BB immediately drop their guards and lean

against a car. One cop gets out of the police car and

heads into the club, the other cop stays behind in the

car. No one knows quite what to do since the policeman

is so nearby.

He picks up his coat and leaves with Moe.

with lit candles on it.    The cake reads "FAREWELL ADA."

ANGLE ON CAKE

as it passes row upon row of SECRETARIES typing in the

Social Security office.

All of a sudden everything goes black, the typewriters

stop and all we can see are the lit candles. We hear

a huge chorus from all of the Secretaries in the

Social Security office:

Lights go on again, and we see a group of GIRLS gathered

around the cake placed on one of the desks. At the

center of the group is ADA, in her late twenties, and

very pregnant.

Ada blows out the candles, missing a couple, and getting

help from one of the other Girls.

Everyone laughs.

A couple of girls hand around glasses of Coca-Cola. Nora

stands in the midst of the girls, pleased for Ada. She

yells out.

The cake is being passed out, and people are talking --

it has become somewhat of a party atmosphere. Nora turns

to her friend, NELLIE.

She sips her Coke.

They touch their cups.

This is a two-story  apartment in a renovated building.

It has high ceilings  and exposed brick. It is sparsely-

furnished, but what  there is is decent-looking. We see

Nora and BB dancing  closely in the shadows of the dark-

ened room.

A Frank Sinatra record is playing on the RECORD PLAYER

in the b.g. -- it is "IN THE WEE SMALL HOURS OF THE

MORNING." A bottle of wine is on the coffee table.

The remains of Chinese food in containers are alongside.

They dance quietly for a moment.

Nora laughs.

They dance for a bit and look at one another. He leans

toward her, holds her tight and kisses her. Then the

RECORD STICKS on the words "that's the time"... "that's

the time"... "that's the time"... BB slips off one of his

loafers, while still embracing Nora, kicks it so that it

hits the side of the record table. The RECORD SLIPS

a little and continues to play correctly.

Nora is sleeping in the bed, BB slips a robe on, looks

at her and then goes down the stairs to the living room.

He takes a piece of paper out of his jacket pocket on

the back of a chair, and dials a number on the telephone.

TELEPHONE RINGS at the bar, the BARMAN picks it up.

The Barman calls over to Tilley who we see sitting at a

table with some of the other tin men.

Tilley gets up from the table and goes over to the phone.

BB on phone.

Tilley on phone.

BB on phone.

Tilley on phone.

Tilley slams the phone down.

BB puts the phone down -- looks puzzled.

Tilley pulls up in his car in front of his house.          He

runs up the front steps.

He opens the door, flips on the lights and looks around.

He races upstairs and starts rifling through the closet

and drawers, pulling out Nora's clothes -- her dresses,

skirts, blouses, and coats -- and he opens the window

wide and throws them out. He screams as he tosses

underwear and the rest of her clothes.

He grabs Nora's shoes and throws them out onto the

street. Then he goes into the bathroom and piles all of

her toiletries in his arms, tosses them into a trash can.

Takes a suitcase from a shelf in the bedroom, opens it,

throws in the trash can. He clears out her underwear

drawers and empties them into the suitcase, closes the

suitcase and then throws that out of the window. He's

out of breath, exhausted and sweating. He goes down-

stairs into the kitchen to get himself a drink. He

sees a pair of Nora's slippers under the kitchen table,

he picks them up, opens the back door and tosses them

outside. Locks the door. He stands there as if a

motor is running inside of him. Walks out of the

kitchen.

He exits the house, gets into his car and drives away.

Tilley is driving.    The same Sinatra record "IN THE WEE

SMALL HOURS OF THE   MORNING" is playing on the car RADIO.

Tilley does his now   familiar neck exercises to relieve

tension. He's hard    to read... a mixture of happiness

and sadness.

THROUGH the window of the diner we see Tilley sitting

alone at a table drinking a cup of coffee. The Sinatra

record "IN THE WEE SMALL HOURS OF THE MORNING" plays

over this.

Nora is getting out of her car in front of her house.

She starts to walk toward the house and stops as she

sees her clothing, shoes, etc. scattered all over the

lawn. She tries to take in the scene -- coats are lying

on hedges, underwear on the flower beds... she's shocked.

She just stands there and tears run down her face.

LONG WIDE SHOT

of Nora's BACK TO the CAMERA, with all her possessions

strewn over the front garden of her house.

Nora is standing at the door with her suitcase in hand.

BB is at the door.

She starts to cry.   She goes to hug BB.

BB puts his arms around Nora.

of a nearly empty pool hall. One guy plays alone in

the far corner of the room. Tilley comes down the

stairs of the pool hall and starts to walk toward the

back rooms -- CAMERA FOLLOWS him. He opens the door

and goes through.

CAMERA CONTINUES TO FOLLOW him INTO the offices of

Gibraltar Aluminum Siding Company.

We PASS BY THREE GIRLS on telephones -- they are solicit-

ing jobs for the salesmen. CAMERA GOES FROM one Girl TO

the other.

A voice calls out.

Tilley walks over to the coffee machine.

Tilley passes Sam on the way to the coffee machine. Sam

is looking through the sports page of the newspaper,

along with Mouse and Gil.

Gil looking at the newspaper.

Tilley goes through the door into Wing's office.

His office    is equally messy and thrown together as

everything    else in the Gibraltar offices. As Tilley

closes the    door, his coffee, which is filled to the top

of his cup,    spills over the top and starts to burn his

hand.

He jumps back, and puts his coffee down on a desk, and

wipes his hand on the back of his jacket.

Wing is sitting at his desk which is cluttered with

papers.

Tilley goes to pick up his coffee off the desk.

He hands the newspaper to Tilley.

Tilley shrugs his shoulders.

An area has been set up for hearings to take place. This

seems to be a temporary headquarters until something sub-

stantial can be worked out. There are boxes and crates

all over. There's a long table with a number of commis-

sioners behind it, and a defense table a little way

across the room. MICROPHONES are being used, and the

sound BOOMS -- ECHOING off the walls. A small gallery of

people are watching the proceedings.

ANGLE ON JOHN MASTERS

who is presiding over the hearings. Even though he wears

a tie and a vest, he is nonetheless very sloppily dressed.

To his left and right are two other home improvement

commissioners.

ANGLE ON MURRAY BANKS

A typical aluminum sidings salesman, in his early 40's.

He leans into the microphone.

ANGLE ON BB AND MOE

Standing by the door at the back of the warehouse.

Moe and BB are walking away from the warehouse toward

BB's car... AWAY FROM CAMERA.

They walk by a Volkswagen "beetle" car that's parked in

front of BB's Cadillac. BB stops and looks at it.

BB looks at the car for a few more seconds, then goes

to get into his car.

They get in the car and drive off.

as it bolts open and the horses charge out.

- DAY

Sitting at a table. Sam is studying the racing form,

Tilley is studying the menu.

Sam sees a WAITER approaching and indicates to Tilley to

get off the subject. Waiter arrives at their table.

He closes the menu.

Waiter walks off.

They both look toward the track, the horses race to the

finish line. Number nine streaks across the finish line.

He picks up the racing form.

Tilley taps his forehead, with his eyes closed.

Tilley stands up and is going through his money and race

tickets.

Tilley heads towards the betting booths.    Wing enters

near the booths, Tilley yells to him.

BB's Cadillac is moving along the street.

BB is behind the wheel, Moe is beside him in the

passenger seat.

BB gives a big sigh.

We see hundreds of secretaries typing away, and clerks

sitting at desks. BB walks into the office, peeking his

head around the corner, feeling a little uncomfortable.

He starts to walk around trying to find Nora out of all

the secretaries and clerks.

ANGLE ON NELLIE

Nora's friend. She looks up from the typewriter and sees

BB. In his thick overcoat, huddled up, he seems a little

lost, and it's obvious that he's looking for someone.

BB turns towards Nora. Nora waves to him, happily, with

a twinkle in her eye. BB feels conspicuous -- people

are looking at him. He gives a little wave.

Nora gives BB a small kiss.

BB looks around, very uncomfortable, and he shrugs.

After a long beat.

Nora smiles.

He goes to walk away, then turns back and gives her a

quick kiss. He turns and walks away. Nora watches him

as he walks by the rows and rows of secretaries and

clerks.

watching a race.

We see horse number eight in the lead, coming around the

home stretch.

Moe and BB are watching the race.

Tilley is still yelling for his horse, Sam and Wing

watch quietly.

Another horse -- number 14 -- races past the winning

post.

Wing smiles.

Tilley turns to look at Wing. Sam turns towards Tilley

looking concerned. We see the totals flashed on the

board indicating that the winning horse pays $16.30.

Moe tears up his ticket.

Wing goes to look at form.

Sam is looking at Tilley knowing that he's really in a

jam.

Tilley looks over to Sam, with panic on his face.    Wing

turns back to Tilley and Sam.

There's a beat while Wing just looks at Tilley.

Wing is totally frustrated.

Tilley and Sam are leaving the racetrack and walking to

Tilley's Cadillac.

As Sam and Tilley walk towards Tilley's Cadillac, BB and

Moe are walking to BB's Cadillac parked close to Tilley's

car. They see each other.

He laughs.

There's a long beat as the two guys eye one another.

Then, almost in a soft apologetic manner, BB speaks.

BB gets into his car.

BB's car pulls away.    Tilley and Sam watch him go.

BB's driving and Moe is in the passenger seat.

A temporary sign is posted on the door and a painter

is filling in the name -- "HOME IMPROVEMENT COMMISSION."

This is the office of the Home Improvement Commission.

Desks, chairs and filing cabinets are all over the place

(not yet organized) and boxes and cartons are stacked

against a wall. ANGLE ON John Masters walking with a

file under his arm. He walks across the half-empty

warehouse where workers are renovating the space. He

approaches a table where Stanley is seated with his

feet up, nursing a hot cup of coffee. Masters throws a

file down on the table.

Stanley nods.

We hear a LOUD, SAWING noise and HAMMERING echoing

through the warehouse throughout this scene.

BB's Cadillac is parked in front of a house.

BB and Moe are selling to MR. and MRS. SHUBNER, a young

couple. The TELEVISION is ON in the background.

He peels off four hundred dollars and hands the money to

Shubner.

BB smiles.   Suddenly Moe winces in pain.

Moe collapses to the floor.

Moe is being wheeled on a gurney by a couple of nursing

attendants. BB walks alongside.

They round the bend of the corridor.

BB is on a public phone to Nora.     We never see Nora, we

just hear her voice.

