<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

TOMBSTONE

TOMBSTONE

An original screenplay

By

Kevin Jarre

ROLL PROLOGUE OVER MAIN TITLE:  a collage of old photos,

prints, etc., and silent live-action vignettes, all dark and

heavily shadowed like a dimly-remembered dream.  The first

images show the opulence of the Gilded Age, the epic vistas of

the west, cattle drives and cowtowns with all their

violence....

A dashing FIGURE in a Prince Albert coat appears, long locks

tumbling down his shoulders, twin Navy Colts thrust into a red

sash at his waist, a tin star on his chest.  Next we see him

in action, downing 3 barroom opponents at once, pistols

FLASHING around the room like a strobe light:

Now Hickock sits facing us, playing poker as a shabby-looking

FIGURE with a gun steals up behind him and FIRES.....

Now a group of cowhands carouse a streetcorner, raising hell

as 2 mustachiod young LAWMEN walk up, trying to quiet them

down.

Seeing it's hopeless, the lawmen whip out their pistols and

start clubbing the drover's making them stagger and grimace,

holding their heads....

An ARMED DROVER creeps up behind the lawmen, about to fire....

A REED-THIN FIGURE with a sawed-off shotgun steps from the

shadows behind the drover and FIRES.  The huge blast WHITES-

OUT the screen for an instant, making the drover seem to

disappear.  The lawmen spin around.  The thin man breaks the

shotgun open then calmly holds out his wrists to be cuffed.

Earp looks at him in shock, mouthing the word "thanks".

The scene shifts to an elegant Victorian home: a stern Jewish

patriarch orders his darkly beautiful DAUGHTER upstairs as her

weeping mother looks on.  The girl huffs up the stairs

followed by her little white dog.  Next, the girl and dog are

seen escaping through a window to the street below and a

waiting cab.

Now we see HORSEMEN silhouetted against the night sky, a hand

knocking on a door, figures conferring in darkness, then more

riders, moving west in restless haste toward the rising

sun....

A jagged, moonlit landscape, a lone prospector and his burro

moving along a ridge, a pick digging into a rocky ledge, an

ore car emerging from a mine shaft, finally a hilltop cluster

of tents becoming the skeletal wood-frame beginnings of a

town....

An engraving of a stagecoach holdup, herds of cattle moving

north, a newspaper story of a massacre in Mexico, congressmen

railing at each other, shaking their fists....

Pounding hooves, flowing manes, a pack of night-riding

HORSEMEN kicking hell-for-leather across the desert

moonscape....

END MAIN TITLE as the screen fades to an ominous black and....

EXT - SONORA DESERT/CANYON ENTRANCE - DAY

Burning daylight, hard reality.  A squad of uniformed MEXICAN

RURALES rides through the Sonora desert, sabres glinting in

the sun.  Approaching the mouth of a rocky canyon their hard-

bitten CAPTAIN signals them to stop, leaning down to study a

jumble of hoofprints on the ground.  He turns to the anxious-

looking YOUNG RURALE on his right, speaking in Spanish via

subtitle:

The Captain spurs his horse and they ride on at a gallop,

plunging into the canyon....

DELETED

EXT - SKELETON CANYON - NIGHT

The full moon throws fantastic shadows across the high walls

of the canyon as the Rurales ride through.  At the bend the

Captain halts them.  The young one starts to speak but the

Captain shushes him, peering into the darkness.  A few beats

then:

But suddenly GUNFIRE erupts from the shadows all around them,

blasting them from the saddle, each powder flash lighting up

the canyon for an instant, freezing each victim in the moment

of his death.  Then, just as abruptly the firing stops,

leaving only the Captain, the young Rurale, and a 3rd Rurale

alive.  Dazed and bloody, they struggle to their feet as 6

armed FIGURES emerge from the shadows, walking into the

moonlight toward them.  With broad-brim hats swept up in

front, silk scarves and red sashes, high boots and silver-

studded gunleather, they look like 17th century pirates.

These are the Cowboys:  OLD MAN CLANTON, the ageless, white-

bearded leader;  CURLY BILL BROCIUS, 2nd-in-command, smiling,

bull-necked;  IKE and BILLY CLANTON, the old man's sons;

FLORENTINO, a Mexican half-breed;  and JOHNNY RINGO, dark,

Byronic, with an air of something very strange.  The Old Man

nods to Florentino:

Florentino does so in Spanish.  The others kneel but the

Captain remains on his feet, steely-eyed, defiant.

Curly Bill casually FIRES his shotgun into the Captain's legs,

dropping him into a splayed lotus position.  Curly Bill knods.

The others rise and dash away but Curly Bill stops the

Captain:

The Captain speaks grimly in Spanish.  Florentino smiles.

Scattered chuckles from the others but we notice Ringo frown

and draw his pistol as the Captain repeats the words.

Ringo takes aim.  The Captain sneers, suddenly in English:

EXT - ARIZONA DESERT - DAWN

GUNSHOTS as the Cowboys fire their pistols and shout, running

their stolen herd out of a draw into a clearing where the

McLaury brothers wait:  FRANK, older, edgy; and TOM, younger,

easy-going.

He raises the flask and drinks.  Curly Bill turns to Ringo:

EXT - TRAIN STATION PLATFORM/TELEGRAPH OFFICE - DAY

A BLACK HORSE, a fabulous thoroughbred stallion, rears and

neighs on an open flat-car where it's tethered with 4 near-

identical geldings.  A small boy tries to pet it as a strong-

featured, fair-haired MAN appears, quieting the horse.  Tall

and slim in a black frock coat and black flat-brim hat, he

moves with assurance and grace, a man in control.  This is

WYATT EARP.

Back down the platform Wyatt strokes the stallion gently,

looking up as Dake approaches.

Dake retreats.  Wyatt turns back to his horse testily.

Suddenly:

Wyatt turns.  His brothers stand behind him, smiling.  Though

VIRGIL is a little older and heavier.  MORGAN a little younger

and slimmer, they're otherwise identical to Wyatt, right down

to their style of dress.  Wyatt breaks into a grin, hugging

them both, his cool replaced with an almost boyish enthusiasm.

Virgil's blonde wife ALLIE, small, fierce, and Irish, steps up

with Morgan's fair, cameo-lovely young LOUISA in tow.

Wyatt's handsome blonde wife MATTIE enters from the street:

All exchange greetings and hugs.  Wyatt positively beams:

He turns them toward the stationhouse window, arranging them

in a group and pointing to their reflection.

Wyatt smiles, shaking his head. Morgan's starts to speak, but:

They stand silently, studying themselves, together as a

family.  Wyatt still shaking his head happily, drinking it in.

Finally:

EXT - WAGON - MAGIC HOUR

A large woman, Wyatt's black horses tied to the rear, crosses

the majestic, forbidding Arizona desert with its red volcanic

rocks and the giant saguaro cactus dotting the landscape so

mysteriously, like huge, spiny hieroglyphics....

EXT - CAMP BY RIVER - NIGHT

A camp by the river under a clear night sky dripping with

stars.  After dinner.  The women, Virgil, and Morgan sit by

the fire.  Morgan petting his dog, a sweet little foxhound.

Louisa sits behind him, twirling his silky blonde hair,

turning to Mattie:

Just then Wyatt appears on his stallion, galloping across the

moonlit plain toward them, sitting his horse like a centaur.

It's clear he's a magnificent horseman.  Virgil smiles:

The women cackle lasciviously.  Virgil groans at Allie:

Wyatt rides up and dismounts, unsaddling the horse.

Louisa turns to Mattie, fishing in her bag:

As Wyatt leads the horse away the women get up, Allie and

Louisa going to the river with dishes, Mattie crossing to the

wagon.  Virgil and Morgan watch her appreciatively:

At the other end of camp Mattie climbs into the wagon and lies

down.  Wyatt appears and starts to stroke her head.

A coyote starts HOWLING from the far darkness.  Mattie

shudders:

She seems genuinely surprised.  Wyatt looks genuinely

confused.  Over at the fire, Morgan hugs and mashes Louisa

playfully.

She fights loose.  Wyatt walks up, sits, shaking his gold

watch.

INT - PRESCOTT SALOON - NIGHT

A handsomely appointed saloon.  At a corner table, the pot is

so rich 2 players have folded leaving ED BAILEY, a big,

sullen, tough-looking gambler, facing gaunt, elegant DOC

HOLLIDAY.  Full of southern refinement and languid, almost

feline grace.  Doc has such unerring style and aplomb that he

makes his constant tubercular coughing sound as if he's merely

clearing his throat.  Bailey leans forward, seething with

impatience:

KATE HORONY, Doc's voluptuous Hungarian consort enters,

refilling his engraved silver stirrup cup.  She has a faint

accent:

Doc covers the bet and shows his hand.  Bailey pounds the

table.

Doc leans forward, revealing an ivory gun-butt under his coat.

Now a Cheshire cat smile we will soon come to know very well

steals over Doc's face as he takes out his nickel-plated .38

Colt Lightning and .45 Peacemaker and lays them on the table.

Doc bats his eyelashes.  Bailey jumps up, boiling.  A long,

sweaty moment, then Bailey LUNGES.  Doc spring up, grabbing

him by the hair and jabbing his fist into Bailey's armpit.

Bailey screams and doubles over.  Doc gives him two more

blows, so light they hardly seem capable of the effect they're

having.  But as he turns to give him another we suddenly SEE

that there's a KNIFE in Doc's hand.  The bartender reaches for

the shotgun under the bar.  Kate pulls a Derringer from her

muff and puts it to his ear.

He backs off.  Kate covers the room.  Bailey drops to his

knees.

Eyes gleaming cruelly, Doc blows his cigarette smoke into

Bailey's face.  Bailey sinks to the floor in a fetal position.

Kate gathers up the pot as Doc retrieves his guns, looking

around the room.  Then both back up to the door.

They exit.  The others look down at the groaning Bailey lying

in a pool of his own blood.  A GAMBLER shakes his head:

EXT - STREET OUTSIDE - NIGHT

Doc and Kate stride quickly down the board sidewalk to the

hotel.

Kate points to 2 horses saddled and packed outside the hotel.

Doc gives Kate a peck on the cheek as they mount and ride

off...

EXT - TOMBSTONE OUTSKIRTS/COTTAGES - DAY

A small cottage at the edge of town.  As the Earps drive up we

SEE a sobbing woman sitting splay-legged in the middle of the

street while her husband tries to comfort her.  3 small

children stand alongside them, watching in stunned silence as

Cowboys FRANK STILLWELL, cocky, arrogant, and PETE SPENCE,

lean, dark, heave their furniture and belongings out of the

cottage into the street while snarling things like, "shut

up...deadbeats...move it!"  The Earps stop, staring at this

scene in shock, Allie looking ready to fight.  Virgil

restrains her, Stillwell looks up:

Virgil looks at Wyatt who shakes his head.  They drive on

as....

EXT - ALLEN STRESS, TOMBSTONE - DAY

Unlike the dreary, weather-beaten western towns in movies,

Tombstone is new and colorful, part town, part mining camp, a

wild mixture of brightly painted wooden storefronts and half-

finished stone buildings rimmed by clusters of tents and

shanties, all perched atop a hill with a magnificent view of

the desert and the purple Dragoon mountains beyond.  We HEAR

the vibrant din of hammers and saws, player pianos, hurdy-

gurdys, clip-clopping horses' hooves, and pealing laughter as

the Earps drive up Allen Street, the main drag, lined with

saloon after saloon, sidewalks bustling with drovers, miners,

Chinamen, and sullen gun-toting hard-cases.  They pull up in

front of the Grand Hotel and step down.  JOHNNY BEHAN,

handsome, well-dressed, wearing an ornate crescent-shaped gold

sheriff's badge and a ready smile walks up and shakes hands:

EXT - TOMBSTONE OUTSKIRTS/COTTAGE - DAY

The Earps and Behan stand on the porch of the very same

cottage we saw the Cowboys evict the family from.

Wyatt looks enquiringly at his brothers.  They shrug.  He's

calling the shots.  Wyatt shrugs back.  Finally:

EXT - O.K. CORRAL/ALLEN ST. - DAY

A large stable and corral backing up into a vacant lot.

Wyatt's big horses feed in their stalls while Wyatt faces the

stableboy:

Morgan and Virgil enter with FRED WHITE, the jovial old town

marshal.  Shaking hands, all 4 go up Allen, taking in the

town.

White points to SHERMAN MCMASTERS and PONY DEAL, a half-breed,

standing over by the hotel, joking in sign language.

Wyatt nods, suddenly very interested as they walk on and....

EXT - ORIENTAL SALOON - DAY

We feel the sensual delight of going from hot sun into cool

dark as Wyatt enters, going up to the ornate mahogany bar.

Though a large, handsome saloon complete with gaming tables,

it has only a few patrons on hand.  "The Lilly and the Rose"

is on the player piano as bartender MILT JOYCE appears:

Joyce points to the faro table in the corner where JOHNNY

TYLER, an unshaven plug-ugly with a big D.A. Colt .45 carried

ostentatiously in a shoulder holster, deals to a couple of

scruffy-looking drifters.

INT - FARO TABLE - DAY

As Wyatt walks up Tyler starts snarling at one of the players:

Tyler looks Wyatt over, noting he is unarmed.  He stands,

sneering:

Wyatt steps forward suddenly, eyes cold and hard like a shark.

Suddenly realizing he's in way over his head.  Tyler shrinks

back reflexively, his hand moving toward his gun.  The other

players scatter.  Wyatt nods, his voice calm and steady:

Wyatt abruptly SLAPS his face, making his teeth clack

together.

Tyler goes pale, all pretense of courage gone.  Wyatt slaps

him again.

Another slap.  Tyler stays frozen, blood dripping down his

chin.

Tyler's done.  Wyatt plucks his gun away, handing it to Joyce.

Wyatt takes Tyler by the ear, dragging him across the room

like an unruly child.  At the door he gives the ear a twist.

Tyler winces.  Wyatt shoves him out into the street then turns

to Joyce casually:

EXT - CORNER OF ALLEN & 5TH STREET (STAGECOACH) - DAY

Later.  Wyatt walks up to his brothers at the corner.

Down the block, unseen by the Earps, a wild-eyed Tyler is

advancing on them with a sawed-off shotgun.  He is within 20

feet when suddenly:

Tyler spins around to see Doc standing in a doorway, smiling.

Tyler freezes.

Wyatt spots Doc and walks up, brothers in tow.  Though they

don't so much as shake hands, we sense a strong bond between

the 2 men.

They laugh.  Frozen there.  Tyler begins to tremble.  Finally:

Tyler scuttles off as Behan approaches affably.  Doc sniffs.

As if on cue, a bullet WHIZZES past Behan's head.  Everyone

ducks.  More GUNFIRE as a man holding a bloody hand to his

throat reels out the door of the nearby Crystal Palace, his

gun firing wildly like a sputtering engine before he pitches

face first onto the sidewalk, dead.  Immediately 2 more men

appear: a staggering DRUNK with a bullet hole in his shoulder;

and TURKEY CREEK JACK JOHNSON, a leathery plainsman with his

gun at the ready.  A crowd forms as the drunk raises his

pistol, bellowing.

Suddenly a 3rd man, TEXAS JACK VERMILLION, long-haired, hawk-

nosed, appears, pistol at the ready, keeping bystanders at

bay.

The drunk now has raised his gun to where it's almost level

and:

Johnson FIRES.  The drunk drops in a heap.  Johnson spots

Wyatt:

Doc points to his bloody ear.  Johnson touches it, sees the

blood, gives a silent start.  Just then White arrives, looking

weary, facing Johnson and Vermillion.

They hand over their guns while Virgil looks at the 2 dead men

lying in the street, shaking his head:

They look.  A stagecoach stops in the street.  JOSEPHINE

MARCUS looks out the window, her little white dog under her

chin.  She and Wyatt spot each other instantly, both

impressed.

White leads them off to jail.  Wyatt and Josephine hold each

other's gaze as the coach drives on.  Doc smiles:

EXT - GRAND HOTEL (STAGECOACH) - DAY

Pony Deal and McMasters watch as the actors exit the coach for

the hotel.  Josephine turns to the pretty 1st actress:

INT - LOBBY, GRAND HOTEL - DAY

The actors enter, going to the desk while Josephine looks for

a place to sit.  A fat, well-dressed easterner with a

newspaper sits nearby, ignoring her.  Seeing this from

outside, McMasters instantly barges into the lobby, hoists the

easterner out of his chair, and hurls him bodily out into the

street.  Josephine nods her surprised thanks.  McMasters tips

his hat shyly, exits as the 1st actress returns with her key.

They exchange looks....

INT - SHIEFFELIN HALL - NIGHT

A full house, pandemonium.  Curly Bill, Ringo and their Cowboy

entourage form a block in the center

Rows while BILLY BREKENRIDGE, Behan's bespectacled, slightly

effeminate little Deputy makes his timid way down the aisle,

looking for a seat midst the off fist-fight and yelling match.

2 cocky young Cowboys, BILLY GROUNDS and ZWING HUNT, call out

to him:

Curly Bill beckons.  Happy as a lark, Breakenridge takes the

seat next to him.  Up above, the Earps sit in a box, the women

thrilled:

Doc enters, Kate on his arm.  The  women exchange uneasy nods.

They sit as White enters with Mayor JOHN CLUM and wife.

While the orchestra tunes up and the crowd's excitement rises,

White sits next to Wyatt, pointing out the different Cowboys

and giving a thumbnail sketch of each as we PAN over them:

Music.  The house lights dim.  The audience hushes.  A

spotlight hits easel at the end of the stage: "Professor

Gillman and His Ballet of Gravity."  Out in the audience,

Barnes groans:

The curtain goes up.  PROFESSOR GILLMAN, a 3rd rate juggler in

white tie, tailcoat, and black tights steps out and starts

tossing Indian clubs in the air.  The audience starts groaning

but the Professor's rictus-like smile never changes.  Having

seen enough, Frank Stillwell stands up and shouts:

Stillwell raises his pistol and FIRES.  An Indian club

explodes in the Professor's hand.  Screams and scattered

laughter in the audience.  The Professor is frozen in utter

shock, staring at the bullet graze on his hand and saying out

loud:

A chord of music and the curtain drops like stone.

Applause....

EXT - BACKSTAGE - NIGHT

The other acotrs hustle the Professor off the stage, appalled.

The 1st Actress turns to MR. FABIAN, a handsome, slightly

raffish classical tragedian.

INT - SHIEFFELIN HALL - NIGHT

More music and another card reads: "Selections From the Bard

of Mr. Romulus Fabian, Tragedian in Excelsis."  The curtain

rises and Fabian steps out, a purple velvet cloak wrapped

resplendently about him like a toga.  In the audience, Curly

Bill's mouth drops:

Fabian throws open his cloak, revealing his lithe form in

doublet and tights.  The whores in the gallery hoot and cheer.

Fabian bows.

Another GUNSHOT and a bullet SPANGS into the column next to

Fabian with a shower of plaster.  Without missing a beat,

Fabian casually flicks a chunk off his shoulder and continues:

In the audience Barnes holsters his smoke pistol reflectively.

Starry-eyed, Breakenridge answers without thinking:

Raw laughter from the others.  Breakenridge sinks in his seat.

On stage Fabian is in full cry, giving the local a slice of

the ripest ham:

Wild applause and cheering.  Fabian bows with elaborate

modesty.

The curtain falls.  Another card: "Faust - or the Devil's

Bargain" and the orchestra whirls into "Danse Macabre" by

Saint-Saens, the rising curtain revealing a wild pained

backdrop, all black and red, covered with weird, Beardsley-

esque designs and images of death and damnation.  A light

comes up, revealing an ancient white-bearded scholar sitting

alone with his books.  Then a hooded Satan dances across the

stage, slender and lissome in paned black doublet and breeches

and black hose, tempting the old man with images of wealth and

youth in the form of a shimmering blonde ballerina.  The old

man succumbs, signing Satan's contract.  The audience watches

in rapt attention, especially the Cowboys:

Satan makes a flourish.  A flash-pad EXPLOSION transforms the

old scholar into a young student.  The ballerina flits by.

The student offers her gold.  They dance, swirling about the

stage in a mad waltz with Satan hovering behind them,

mirroring their every move like a puppet master.  Finally,

having gotten all his gold, the Ballerina drifts away leaving

the young student alone, lost in bitterness as he changes back

into the old scholar sitting with his books.  Satan appears

over him, exultant and triumphant, ready to collect the debt

as the curtain falls with a final crashing chord.  Thunderous

cheering and applause.  The curtain rises again and the

performers come out for bows, all except Satan.

Suddenly Satan bounds out, removing the hood.  It's Josephine.

Josephine spots Wyatt's box and smiles.  Doc raises an

eyebrow:

EXT - ALLEN STREET - NIGHT

After the show and theatergoers, including the Earps, stroll

homeward arm-in-arm down Allen, all looking up at the clear

night sky above.  At the Oriental Wyatt stops, turning to

Virgil:

She laughs, shoving Virgil down the street.  He looks at

Wyatt:

Another kiss and he heads for the Oriental with Morgan.

Mattie walks on after the others, fishing through her bag for

her bottle of laudanum....

DELETED

INT - ORIENTAL - NIGHT

The saloon is packed.  TRACK along the bar at floor level past

a wild array of high-button shoes, patent leather pumps, and

stack-heeled boots with jingling silver spurs.  Track again at

shoulder level past an equally wild array of slouch hats,

pork-pies, derbys, and wide-brim sombreros.  Wyatt sits

against the wall, dealing faro with Doc at his side, Morgan on

lookout while a sweaty overdressed HIGH ROLLER makes bets,

gnashing his teeth and drumming his fingers n a fever of

impatient greed:

The high roller lays a set of deeds out on the table as....

INT - ORIENTAL - NIGHT

A break in the game.  Wyatt studies the deeds as Morgan and

Doc look on.  Kate sits to one side, blowing smoke rings

contentedly.

Doc point.  Josephine has just walked in with the other

actors.

She spots Wyatt and starts toward him but he looks away, as if

ignoring her.  She stops.  Behan steps up to her, tipping his

hat, very gallant.  They move toward the bar.  Wyatt turns to

Doc.

Josephine and Behan chat at the bar.  White nudges Joyce:

Mr Fabian enters, dramatically gotten-up like Lord Byron.  The

whole bar bursts into applause.  He bows.  Breakenridge jumps

up from his table, excited:

He seats Fabian near the faro game, gets him some champagne.

Doc chuckles.  Suddenly Curly Bill looms over the faro table

with Ringo and a drunken Ike Clanton.

Ringo looks at Doc, holding his gaze while suddenly whipping

out his .45.  Everyone but Doc flinches.  Ringo does a

dazzling series of twirls and tricks, his nickel-plated pistol

flashing like a blaze of silver fire, finally slapping it back

into his holster with a flourish.  Cheers and hoots.  Doc

rolls his eyes, hooks a finger through the handle of his

silver cup, then launches into an exact duplication of Ringo's

routine using a cup instead of a gun.  The room bursts into

laughter.  Doc shrugs.  Ringo lets a strange little hint of a

smile cross his face then exits with the others.  White

exhales, turns to Wyatt:

Sitting up on the bar to see the show, Josephine turns to

Behan:

EXT - ALLEN STREET/ORIENTAL - NIGHT

Curly Bill steps out with Ike and Ringo.  He looks around.

An old Chinaman minces by.  Curly Bill dashes after him...

BACK & FORTH INT/EXT - ORIENTAL / ALLEN STREET - NIGHT

Later.  Doc is at the piano, drunk as a lord but playing

Chopin flawlessly.  Kate pours him another drink.

Now the High-Roller comes reeling up, loud and gratingly

drunk.

Doc plays on.  Josephine leaves with Behan.  Morgan sighs:

Wyatt grunts and nods, perturbed.  Outside the others mount up

but Curly Bill stands drugged-up in the middle of the street,

arms out, head back, eyes closed, luxuriating in the

moonlight.

The others shrug and ride off.  Curly Bill pulls his pistol,

spinning it.  Back inside the Oriental it's late, few patrons

remain.  A few beats then suddenly everyone jumps as GUNSHOTS

echo from outside.  White goes to the window, looks outside:

Just then Behan dashes in, white as a sheet, Josephine in tow:

Outside Curly Bill starts taking potshots at a passerby's

feet, making him dance down the street and scurry for cover.

Curly Bill cackles.  Inside White turns uneasily to Wyatt:

Wyatt keeps dealing, Doc keeps playing.  White draws himself

up and exits.  Outside, Curly Bill reloads and keeps shooting.

White steps out into the street.  We feel a sense of inverted

terror as he draws his gun and we SEE that his hand is

trembling.  He crosses the street, coming up behind Curly

Bill:

Curly Bill spins around.  White's gun stares him in the face.

Back in the bar, Wyatt puts his cards down, looks over at Doc.

Doc lays his head down on the keys, passes out.  Wyatt frowns

for a moment.  Finally he stands, turning to Morgan:

Joyce hands him a Colt from under the bar.  Outside White

covers Curly Bill, trembling harder now.  An adrenaline rush

in a man White's age is hard to look at, he seems so frail, so

vulnerable.  Even his voice has a quavering edge to it:

With a reassuring smile, Curly Bill holds his pistol out butt-

first.  White reaches for it, visibly relieved.  But quick as

a snake's tongue Curly Bill spins it around and FIRES POINT

BLANK into White's chest, blowing him over backward, the blast

so close it sets his clothes on fire.   Curly Bill turns just

as Wyatt flashes into frame and SLAMS him over the head with

his pistol barrel, laying him out in a groaning heap.  Wyatt

glances at White lying semi-conscious in the street, chest

heaving, eyelids fluttering, making weak little bird-like

sounds, smoke rising from his smoldering shirt and vest.  Clum

runs up:

Clum pats the embers out in White's clothes but as Wyatt

starts to haul Curly Bill up he suddenly finds himself

surrounded by Ike, Billy Clanton, and six other Cowboys.

The Cowboys tense up, ready for action.  Wyatt holds his

ground, his hard, steady gaze zeroing in on Ike:

Ike steps up, full of brass.  Without warning Wyatt jabs the

muzzle of his pistol into his forehead, snapping his head

back.  Wyatt cocks the pistol.  The other Cowboys hush.  Ike

freezes.  Wyatt's eyes bore into him.

Ike stands stock still.  Billy steps forward, undaunted:

This is it.  The Cowboys poise themselves, ready to start,

but:

Again a hush.  Doc stands behind Wyatt, still drunk, but with

his .38 trained on Billy.  Billy sneers:

Doc pulls out his .45, training it, too, on Billy:

Billy pauses, chastened.  Suddenly there's another commotion

as Virgil and Morgan bull their way through the crowd from

behind with shotguns.

This breads the group's will and things suddenly calm down

dramatically as the Cowboys disperse.  Wyatt lowers his

pistol, heaving a sigh of relief as he pulls the still-groggy

Curly Bill to his feet and hauls him reeling toward the jail.

DELETED

EXT - JAIL/ALLEN STREET/HOTEL - NIGHT

Later.  As the Earps and Doc step out on the sidewalk we can

see the semi-conscious Curly Bill through the front door of

the jail laying in one of the cells, holding a bloody kerchief

to his head.  Wyatt closes the door, locks it, gives Clum the

keys.

The street is quiet as they start back toward the Oriental.

Virgil and Morgan following at a discreet distance, smirking:

Meanwhile across the street at the hotel Josephine turns to

Behan.

DELETED

DELETED

INT - ORIENTAL - DAY

Morgan's hound sleeps in the corner while Virgil and Morgan

shoot pool.  Wyatt looking on.

Clum enters, frowning and anxious, just as Morgan sinks a

shot.

Clum exits shaking his head.  They keep playing.  After a

beat:

EXT - COTTAGE ON EDGE OF TOWN - DAY

Virgil and Wyatt walk down a quiet, tree-shaded lane on the

outskirts of town.  Suddenly a rubber ball rolls into their

path.  A small BOY plays in the front yard of a nearby

cottage.  Virgil and Wyatt approach, Virgil returning the

ball:

The boy stands stock still, staring at the men in silence.

He turns and walks back to the street without another word.

Virgil keeps going.  Wyatt starts after him, leaving mother

and child in confusion as....

DELETED

INT - VIRGIL'S PARLOR - DAY

In tight on a gleaming silver shield, "Town Marshal,

Tombstone, A.T."  PULL BACK to reveal it pinned to Virgil's

breast.  He sits by his parlor hearth with Morgan at his side.

Wyatt sits opposite with his head in his hands.

Morgan looks down in sheepish silence.  Then he pulls back his

coat, revealing the Deputy's badge on this vest.  Wyatt

groans.

Wyatt exhales wearily then crouches down in front of his baby

brother, looking deep in his eyes, his voice soft, plaintive:

EXT - DESERT, HOOKER RANCH - DAY

Armed with a borrowed pistol and carbine, Wyatt gallops

through the desert on one of his other big blacks, eyes

scanning the tracks beneath him.  He rides up and stops at a

well near a large ranch house.  He dismounts, studying tracks

as rancher HENRY HOOKER rides up, strong, noble-looking, like

something from a Frederic Remington canvas.  Wyatt nods.

Hooker nods back.

Hooker suddenly falls silent, looking at the ground nervously.

Wyatt nods his thanks.  Hooker looks down, ashamed.  Wyatt

stares at him a moment.  There's something genuinely troubling

about so strong a man living in fear.  Wyatt rides on, shaking

his head....

INT - DESERT CAMP - DAY

A small camp near a clump of trees.  Pony Deal brews coffee

while McMasters leans against a fallen oak log feeding an

eager pack of mongrel pups from a block of jerky as Wyatt

rides up.

EXT - MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY

Wyatt and McMasters ride along side-by-side through the hills.

EXT - RUSTLER'S PARK - DAY

A wide plateau in the mountains dotted with tents, water and

fee troughs, rope corrals, etc.  Cowboys cut out steers while

others crouch around fires, cooking, looking up with naked

hostility as Wyatt rides up.  McMasters points to the edge of

camp where Billy Clanton is currying Wyatt's stallion.

Wyatt rides on, making for Billy.  Ike steps up with INDIAN

HAWK SWILLING, the giant half-breed.  They walk alongside

Wyatt.

Wyatt ignores them, riding up to within 20 feet of Billy and

dismounting.  Billy looks up, supremely confident and

unconcerned.

Everyone laughs.  More cowboys gather, jeering.  Wyatt steps

closer.

Billy steps back, poised.  Ike and Swilling do the same.  3

more Cowboys move up behind him.  The scene seems on the brink

of explosion when Curly Bill suddenly STREAKS into frame on

his buckskin mare, majestic and 10 times life size as he pulls

back and SKIDS to a stop in front of Wyatt, raising a giant

roostertail of dust, making everyone but Wyatt recoil.

Billy reluctantly hands over the leadline.  Wyatt mounts and

rides off with Dick Nailor in tow, Curly Bill riding

alongside.

EXT - ALLEN STREET - DAY

A lazy afternoon.  The Earps and Clum lounge in front of the

hotel.

EXT - GUADALOUPE CANYON - MAGIC HOUR

Old Man Clanton leads 4 other Cowboys with a herd through the

rocky canyon, slipping a flask and singing as the first shot

RINGS OUT from the rocks above, becoming a FUSILLADE.  When

the dust settles, all are dead except the Old Man who lies

pinned under his horse, semi-conscious.  FIGURES emerge from

the shadows.  It's the Rurales led by the same Young Rurale

from before.  He bends down to the dazed Old Man, speaking

carefully:

Hissing gleefully, he jams a derringer under the Young

Rurale's chin and FIRES, blowing off his sombrero as he falls.

The other Rurales fire, emptying their guns into the Old Man

as if he were some monstrous rattlesnake that might bite

them....

EXT - RUSTLER'S PARK - NIGHT

Curly Bill, Ringo, and the others are by the fire, passing a

bottle, as Frank Still well gallops up and dismounts,

breathless:

In tight on Curly Bill as the news sinks in.  He clenches his

fist in rage, then bites a knuckle, getting his control back.

Seething with humiliation, Ike mounts up and rides off.

No takers.  Curly Bill turns back to business:

They mount in a bunch and take off south like the wind....

EXT - DESERT - DAY

Wyatt is up on his stallion, riding along the foot of a high

hill.  Coming to a cut, he suddenly stops.  Josephine is 100

yards up ahead, gorgeously impressive in a black velvet riding

habit, riding side-saddle through the cut on a pretty mare.

Looking for an escape, Wyatt turns up a narrow trail on the

side of the cut.  He follows it as it winds around the hill

then abruptly drops back down and comes out on the other side

of the cut right in front of Josephine.  She waves.  He

groans:

Suddenly Wyatt's stallion groans nervously, throwing its head,

aroused by the presence of the mare.

Before Wyatt can stop her she's off at a full gallop.  Wyatt

pauses, debating with himself.  Finally:

He takes off at a dead run.  Catching up, the horses find

their rhythm, breaking into a smooth gallop, flying over a jet

black plain of volcanic ash into a rolling meadow carpeted

with yellow desert poppies, so bright it almost hurts your

eyes to look at them.  Coming off a rise the desert floor

shears off into a wide crevice.  Josephine heads right at it.

A crack of her crop and she streaks toward it.  Wyatt grits

his teeth and follows suit.  The sound of their hoofbeats

stops for a long instant as they take the jump together,

sailing through the air side-by-side, Josephine giggling like

a little girl.  They light on the other side and gallop on....

EXT - DESERT - MAGIC HOUR

They pull up at a huge desert stone formation, a canopy of

white sandstone with vermillion streaks swirling through it

looming over them like a giant oyster shell.  Wyatt dismounts,

helping Josephine.  He takes his long duster from his saddle

and lays it on a wide, table-shaped rock for them to sit on.

Wyatt laughs, almost in spite of himself.  Josephine beams.

He looks at her, enchanted, but suddenly his face clouds.

He takes her in his arms and kisses her.  She sinks in his

arms.  He kisses her again then falls to her knees, throwing

his arms around her legs and pressing his face into the folds

of her skirts.

She runs a hand through his hair.  He stands, lifting her with

him until they are face-to-face and she can feel him pressing

into her.  After a beat:

EXT - DESERT - MAGIC HOUR

They loll on the rock, facing each other, clothes in disarray.

He looks away and stands, helping her up.  They go to their

horses.  He lifts her up into her saddle and stands awhile,

arranging the folds of her skirt.  After a beat:

He mounts and rides off with a wave.  She watches him

awhile....

INT - FLY'S PHOTOGRAPHIC GALLERY - DAY

A Victorian photographer's studio behind the O.K. Corral.  A

large skylight overhead illuminates the backdrop as CAMMILIUS

S. FLY, the prosperous-looking owner prepares his camera.

Josephine is o.s. in the dressing room on the left:

She steps out wearing a diaphonous veil shrouding her from

head to toe.  Though it partially obscures her form, we can

see that she's completely nude underneath.  Fly gasps.

Fly fumbles with his camera, his composure gone.  She turns to

a nearby mirror, studying herself-black tresses, rounded lips,

maddening curves, and smokey eyes-a dark angel.  She smiles:

INT - WYATT'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Mattie lies in bed, lost in an opium dream.  She snaps out of

it and sits up as Wyatt enters and gives her a kiss, glancing

at the half-empty laudanum bottle on the nightstand.

Wyatt sits down on the bed, suddenly intent, his face alight:

INT - ORIENTAL - NIGHT

Dark circles under his eyes, looking dreadful, Doc is at the

corner table with Virgil, Behan, Ike Clanton, and the

McLaurys.  Josephine lounges by the piano, luscious in a white

gown, singing "Frankie and Johnny" in a torchy voice.  Wyatt

enters, blanching at the sight of Josephine.  Joyce appears at

his elbow:

Wyatt nods weakly.  Josephine gives him a half-smile.  Wyatt

blushes.  Morgan approaches.

They go over to Doc's table and sit down.  Doc beams

drunkenly:

She kisses Doc.  Behan nudges Wyatt:

Behan gives him a wink.  Wyatt shifts uneasily in his seat.

This hand is down to Doc and Ike and the pot is huge.  Doc

shows his hand.  Ike throws his cards down in a drunken rage:

The Earps stiffen as the Cheshire cat smile comes over Doc:

Violence seems imminent.  Wyatt jumps in, separating them.

Behan notices as Josephine gasps, a look of alarm crossing her

face.

Ike lurches to the bar.  Behan takes Josephine aside,

whispering:

Doc stands up, taking Kate's arm to leave.  But he falls back

down dizzily, suddenly breaking out in a sweat and coughing.

Again he tries to stand.  This time he keels over onto the

floor and starts coughing up blood.  Wyatt rushes to him.

They lift the unconscious Doc off the floor.  Ike turns to

Joyce.

DELETED

INT- DOC'S ROOM - NIGHT

Later.  Doc sits up in bed, revived but looking like death

warmed over, mouth gaping open, eyes swimming with every

breath.  DR. GOODFELLOW stands by the bed, putting on his

jacket.

He takes his bag and exits, leaving Doc alone with the abyss.

Kate enters, going to his bedside, and starts rolling him a

cigarette.

Kate smiles, licking the cigarette.  She puts it in his mouth

and leans over to light it so her ample bosom bulges over her

bodice.  As Doc stares at her chest something behind his eyes

seems to shut down.  He takes a long drag from the cigarette.

DELETED

INT - ORIENTAL - DAWN

The cold blue light of dawn peeks through the windows.  Ike

drinks at the bar, brooding.  He reaches behind the bar for

his guns, leaning his rifle against the brass rail.

Ike reaches across the bar and slaps him.  Joyce scowls, more

irritated than hurt and too tired to make anything of it.  The

few other patrons left look up drowsily.  Ike nods in drunken

satisfaction, picking up his rifle:

Ike and the McLaurys storm off as Virgil and Morgan step out

onto the street.  Wyatt turns to them in disbelief:

EXT - ALLEN ST/TELEGRAPH OFFICE - DAY

Walking down Allen, Ike stops the group at the telegraph

office:

EXT - ALLEN STREET - DAY

We start to feel a growing sense of dread as 3 grim HORSEMEN

come galloping out of the desert toward us.  Billy Clanton,

Wes Fuller, and Billy Claiborne ride into town, trotting by

the jail with the Earps looking on.

INT - WYATT'S HOUSE - DAY

In tight on a brass-mounted wooden case.  It opens to reveal a

gleaming Colt .45 with an extra long barrel, the gold shield

inlaid on the burr walnut grips engraved with, "To Wyatt Earp,

Peacemaker..."  This is the Buntline Special, Wyatt Earp's

legendary sidearm.  Wyatt takes it from the case and puts it

in his coat pocket as Mattie looks on.

EXT - ALLEN STREET - DAY

Behan and Jospehine watch from the hotel as the 6 Cowboys, all

but Ike armed with pistols, walk side-by-side down the middle

of Allen.

Josephine goes pale...

EXT - ALLEN ST/JAIL - DAY

The Cowboys swagger by defiantly, giving the Earps sidelong

glances.  Meanwhile, the street starts to BUZZ, townspeople

beginning to notice that something is happening.

Suddenly Doc appears from around a corner, a little the worse

for wear in a long, dark Inverness cloak and carrying a big

gold-headed walking stick.

EXT - LOT BEHIND O.K. CORRAL - DAY

A vacant lot behind the OK Corral with Fly's Gallery on the

left and the Harwood house on the right.  The Cowboys stand in

a knot near their horses, passing a bottle around.

EXT - ALLEN ST/JAIL - DAY

Virgil comes out of the nearby Wells Fargo office with a huge

Stevens 10 gauge shotgun just as Joyce runs up.

Doc turns on Wyatt, genuinely shocked and hurt.

Virgil trades the shotgun for Doc's cane.  Doc folds the

shotgun under his cloak.  They get set, waiting for Wyatt's

cue.  Finally:

They start down Allen, footsteps pounding the board sidewalk,

Virgil and Wyatt in front, Morgan and Doc in the rear.

Bystanders step aside, trading whispers as they pass, turning

onto 4th St...

EXT - LOT BEHIND O.K. CORRAL - DAY

Behan dashes around the corner into the lot, facing the

Cowboys.

EXT - FREMONT STREET/OK CORRAL - DAY

The Earps and Doc turn off 4th onto Fremont St. Creek Johnson

and Texas Jack Vermillion watch as they pass the grocer's.

The vacant lot starts to come into view and the Earps are

fighting nerves now.  Fists clenched, gritting their teeth,

eyes darting all over the street, they look all too human and

nothing like their legend.  It's only Doc, bringing up the

rear, who couldn't care less.  Wyatt narrows his eyes:

Just then Behan walks up holding up his hands, reassuring:

The Earps quicken their step as Behan enters Fly's gallery.

Seeing the approaching Earp party, the Cowboys glance around

at each other, setting themselves.  Now at the end of the

sidealk, the Earps can see that the Cowboys are still armed

and their relief evaporates.  Wyatt mutters under his breath:

The Earps slow their step, gathering themselves.  This is it,

no turning back now.  The Cowboys spread out.  As the Earps

get closer and closer, it seems as if the very air is electric

with tension.  But as they step into the street and fan out

for their final approach, they suddenly do look like their

legend, 4 tall figures in long black coats advancing in a

line, grim and unstoppable, a fleeting moment in time frozen

forever in our minds.  Finally they stop.  The 2 groups are

facing each other, perhaps 20 feet apart.  Doc raises the

shotgun, the Cheshire cat smile spreading over his face.

Virgil steps forward, his face set, holding up Doc's cane:

A weird moment of confusion where nobody seems to know what to

do.  Then Billy Clanton and Frank McLaury SLAP their hands to

their guns.  The Earps instantly tense up, hands on their

pistols.  Virgil waves his hands frantically, afraid they've

misunderstood:

Suddenly realizing what's happening, Fuller and Claiborne bolt

and dash into Fly's gallery.  Everyone else stands frozen,

breath short, pulses pounding, each staring into the other's

wide-open eyes.  Then something in Billy Clanton's eyes seems

to go dead and Wyatt groans under his breath as the awful

realization hits him:

Billy and Frank jerk their pistols and the scene EXPLODES,

everything happening in SPLIT SECONDS as Wyatt draws and

FIRES, knocking Frank down with a gutshot.  Morgan FIRES,

blowing Billy back against the wall of the Harwood house.  Tom

darts for the cover behind his horse as Ike dives onto Wyatt

shrieking like a woman:

Wyatt hurls him aside.  Ike sprints for the gallery.  Tom

FIRES over his saddle at Doc who tries for a shot but is

blocked by the horse.  Billly bounces back up, howling, and

FIRES, the bullet piercing Virgil's calf.  He drops to one

knee.  Tom FIRES again.  Doc FIRES one barrel into the air,

the BLAST making the horse rear up, exposing Tom for a split

second.  Doc FIRES again.  Tom's side EXPLODES into red mist,

the full charge of red mist, the full charge of buckshot

SLAMMING him into the Harwood house.  Tom drops his gun and

teeters into the street, talking eerie little mincing steps,

already dead but still moving, like a chicken with its head

cut off.  Billy FIRES again, dropping Morgan with a hole in

his shoulder.

Doc pull his Lightning and FIRES DOUBLE ACTION 1-2-3 times,

hitting Billy in the abdomen while Frank bounds back into the

fight, FIRING wildly.  Virgil gets up, FIRING BACK.  The whole

scene now bathed in thick smoke, the fight starts swirling

into the street, each man jockeying for position.  Inside the

gallery, Behan and Fuller watch at the window as Ike dives in.

He snatches Fuller's pistol and FIRES through the window.

Ike's bullets WHIZ past Wyatt's ear.  He spins around, calling

to Doc:

In a flashing move taking less than a heartbeat, Doc pivots,

replacing the .38 in this right hand with his big .45, then

with one pass of his left hand RAPID FIRES quick as a machine

gun burst 1-2-3-4-5 times, the bullets RIPPING through the

gallery, showering Ike and the rest with splinters and broken

glass.

Behan hauls Ike up and they dash out the back door, Fuller and

Claiborne right behind, all frantically running for their

lives.  Outside Billy gets to his knees, seemingly

indestructible, and FIRES at Wyatt,  Wyatt RETURNS FIRE.  Eyes

wild and bulging, a bloody hand clutching his wounds, Frank

staggers across the lot, bearing down on Doc through the

smoke:

Doc opens his arms, giving Frank a clear shot at his chest.

Frank FIRES.  The bullet grazes Doc's holster.  Frank trudges

closer, about to fire again but Doc DRILLS him through the

heart while in the next millisecond Morgan FIRES from his

prone position on the ground, the big .45 BLAST carrying away

the top of Frank's head.  As the last shot echoes through the

hills, Frank flops limply to the ground like a rag doll while

out in the street his brother Tom finally runs out of steam

and pitches face first in the dirt, leaving only Billy,

leaning against the Harwood house, legs splayed out in front

of him, absolutely shot to pieces, clicking his empty gun and

wailing piteously as the smoke clears:

He keeps repeating it with sinking volume as townspeople step

timidly into the street.  Fly bends down and takes Bill's gun

from his hand and the fight is officially over, having lasted

only some 20 seconds.  Wyatt helps Morgan to his feet as Behan

strides briskly onto the scene, addressing Wyatt:

Wyatt looks at him in utter disbelief.  Finally:

More bystanders arrive, a crowd scene rapidly developing.  The

Earp women run up from the west end of Fremont.  Josephine

fights her way through the crowd from the east.  She and Wyatt

catch sight of each other.  She grins, tears in her eyes.  He

nods, smiling.  Seeing the whole thing, Behan fumes.  And so

does MATTIE who turns and walks away while Allie and Lou run

to their men, hugging them.  Meanwhile Doc stands over Frank's

body, fingering the graze over his thigh, jeering under his

breath:

Wyatt nods, pocketing his gun, sadly surveying the bloody

scene.

DELETED

EXT - BOOT HILL - SUNSET

Fireworks EXPLODE in the darkening sky as a cortege of 50

Cowboys in their finest parade down the street toward Boot

Hill, the crude little grave yard, Curly Bill and Ringo in the

lead, Ike right behind with the 3 coffins and a banner saying:

"Murdered On The Streets Of Tombstone".  As they take places

at the gravesite Wyatt approaches Curly Bill.

Wyatt nods, tips his hat, walks off.  Looking after him, Curly

Bill whispers:

DELETED

INT- MORGAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Morgan lies in bed, his shoulder in bandages.  Wyatt sits by

him

Morgan looks out the window, staring at nothing.  He looks

tired, older, all the fun and youthful zest gone from his

face.

Wyatt touches his arm, a look of unutterable sadness in his

eyes.  This is the one thing he didn't want for his little

brother....

EXT - RUSTLER'S PARK - NIGHT

The Cowboys are gathered around a huge bonfire, sparks

drifting up toward the heavens, faces vivid in the firelight

like an ancient warrior host.  Curly Bill faces them, bottle

in hand:

They all drink, long and deep, Ringo wiping away tears.  Then:

INT - DRESSING ROOM/BEDROOM, WYATT'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Mattie irons shirts in the adjoining bedroom while Wyatt

finishes shaving in the dressing room, wiping foam from his

face, looking in the cabinet for a towel.  Opening the bottom

drawer, a nest of small brown bottles clatters onto the floor.

Laudanum bottles, all empty.  Mattie looks up as Wyatt comes

out, bottle in hand:

This catches Wyatt off-guard.  He looks at her.  She sneers.

Then:

Wyatt falls silent.  Mattie stands, staring at him a moment,

then:

She keeps ironing.  Wyatt looks as if a building fell on

him....

EXT - TOUGHNUT STREET - DAY

Behan comes out of Nellie Cashman's, spots Josephine going

down Toughnut.  He catches up to her, pacing her.  She keeps

walking.

A HAND reaches into frame, spinning Behan around.  Morgan

stands there, arm in a sling, red in his eye:

With his good arm Morgan SLUGS Behan in the mouth.  Behan

drops like a leaf, as much to avoid a further injury as from

the blow.  Morgan turns to Josephine, leading her away.

Across the street Curly Bill and Ringo share a flask,

watching, Ringo looking even odder than usual.  Curly Bill

chuckles:

EXT - ALLEN STREET/ORIENTAL - LATE DAY

Later.  The Earp brothers stand in front of the Oriental.

Wyatt looks down, miserable.  Virgil looks up at the sky:

Just then Morgan sees Breakenridge passing by in silence.

He hurries away, eyes tearing up.  The Earps look on in

amazement.

They turn.  A liquored-up RINGO stands behind them on the

sidewalk like an apparition, murder in his eyes, hands thrust

into the pockets of a long black buffalo coat, ivory gunbutts

peeking out.

Wyatt turns into the Oriental.  His brothers follow.  Ringo

howls:

Ringo turns.  Doc stands there, smiling that Cheshire cat

smile.

They face each other, eyes blazing, about to reach critical

mass.

At the last possible instant, Curly Bill flashes into frame

along with Stillwell and Spence, grabbing Ringo from behind

while the Earps step in front of Doc.

They haul Ringo up the street, out of earshot.  Ringo is

boiling:

He pulls Ringo into a doorway, away from the others.  Tears in

his eyes, clawing the air, Ringo is beside himself.

INT - ADOBE HOUSE - NIGHT

An adobe rancho in the Sonora desert, small, humbly furnished.

Inside a Mexican family, 3 children, a husband and young wife

eat dinner.  Suddenly Curly Bill and Ringo BURST IN, guns

drawn, shouting in Spanish.  Everyone freezes and as the

children start crying we feel the family's sense of inner

terror.  Curly Bill looks the trembling young wife over,

nodding at Ringo:

EXT - ALLEN STREET/ORIENTAL - DUSK

Nightfall and the wind HOWLS down the street, kicking up dust

in swirling columns.  A FLASH of lightning streaks down from

the purple clouds and a THUNDERCLAP crashes in our ears,

echoing through town into the hills, making the horses neigh

and fidget...

INT- ORIENTAL - DUSK

But inside it's bright and warm.  Florentino is alone at the

bar, nursing a drink while Wyatt deals for Morgan and a few

others.  Virgil looks out at the storm, shaking his head:

EXT- RUSTLER'S PARK - DUSK

The Cowboys are gathered on a rise.  Curly Bill stands before

them, silhouetted against the boiling sky, arms outstretched,

exulting in the storm's fury.   He turns to his men, eyes

ablaze:

INT - JOSEPHINE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Josephine sits by the window, reading Swinburne.  A KNOCK at

the door.  She answers it.  Behan enters.  She bristles, but:

INT - PARLOR, VIRGIL'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Allie and Louisa sip tea by a blazing fire in the hearth,

warming themselves against the storm's cold.  Mattie sits

nearby, sewing.

Suddenly there's a KNOCK at the door.  Louisa looks out the

window.  Outside is the tall silhouette of a WOMAN in a dark

cloak.

Allie opens the door.  Josephine enter, breathless, comes into

the parlor.  Mattie sits up in shock.  The others gather

round.

Another KNOCK.  Allie goes to the window.  There's a weird

sense of deja vu as outside we again see a cloaked woman's

SILHOUETTE.

Allie starts to open the door but Josephine suddenly leaps up

and:

With her dancer's quickness she dashes across the parlor,

grabbing Allie and pulling her to the floor just as a

tremendous SHOTGUN BLAST rips through the open doorway.  The

chandelier overhead explodes, showering the screaming women

with broken glass and a harsh MALE VOICE cuts through the air

as the shrouded figure dashes into the darkness:

INT- ORIENTAL - NIGHT

The sound of the gunshots are lost in the wind and thunder as

Virgil gets up, yawning:

Virgil nods, exiting with a wave.  Wyatt and Morgan keep

playing, hardly noticing as moments later, Florentino walks

out....

EXT - CORNER OF ALLEN & 5TH STREET - NIGHT

Virgil turns off Allen onto 5th, the wind whipping his

coattails.  He glances up as Florentino walks by, crossing 5th

and ducking into a doorway.  Virgil stops.  SOMETHING seems to

be moving in the shadows of an unfinished building on the

opposite side of 5th....

INT - ORIENTAL - NIGHT

A BOOMING SOUND echoes outside, muffled by wind.  Morgan looks

up:

Moments later Virgil walks back in, pale, hatless, a blank

look on his face.  He moves with odd, shuffling steps, holding

himself sideways.  Wyatt and Morgan exchange puzzled glances,

then:

Virgil does an unsteady stutter-step, his face taking on a

pleading, almost childlike look of panic.  But as he turns his

body toward Wyatt we suddenly see that his whole left side is

in bloody shreds, his left arm dangling unnaturally by a few

gory ribbons of flesh.  His voice is a frightened sob:

He starts to swoon.  Wyatt rushes over and grabs him as....

INT- HOTEL ROOM (VIRGIL) - NIGHT

The hotel room where they've taken Virgil.  He's on the bed,

wrapped in bandages, semi-conscious.  Wyatt and Morgan stand

in the doorway with Doc and the women.  Allie is at Virgil's

side, hands over her mouth as Dr. Goodfellow speaks in somber

tones:

She starts wailing.  Suddenly alert, Virgil sits up, taking

her in his big right arm, pulling her close, his voice calm,

reassuring:

She buries her face in his chest and sobs.  He holds her,

rocking her back and forth.  Wyatt turns away, shutting his

eyes.

INT- HOTEL ROOM (VIRGIL) - DAY

Virgil lies in bed, staring blankly into space.  Wyatt sits at

his side, hands over his face while Allie hovers in the b.g.

Virgil grimaces in hopeless agony.  Allie touches Wyatt's arm.

Wyatt stands, backing away.  He turns pleadingly to Mattie

standing in the doorway.  She looks away.  He walks out....

INT - HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Wyatt comes into the lobby and freezes as McMasters

approaches.  Wyatt starts to walk by him, but McMasters steps

into his path:

Wyatt looks into McMasters' eyes and we can see he means

it....

INT - ORIENTAL - NIGHT

Morgan is by himself in the empty saloon, calmly shooting

pool, his dog jumping enthusiastically at every shot as Wyatt

enters.

Morgan pulls back his vest, revealing Virgil's badge.  Wyatt

drops into a corner chair, defeated.  Morgan makes a shot,

leaving only the 8 ball.  A few beats.  Seeing Wyatt's misery,

Morgan softens, poking him with the cue.  Wyatt looks up.

Morgan taps the middle pocket.  Wyatt shakes his head.

Wyatt holds up his watch.  Morgan frowns.  Wyatt raises his

brows:

Morgan has to lean over the table but he sinks the 8 ball,

looking over at Wyatt in triumph.  Wyatt applauds, rolling his

eyes just as a BULLET SPANGS into the wall by his head.  Wyatt

dives for the floor as ANOTHER SHOT pierces the window.  Wyatt

jumps up, bounding to the door to see several FIGURES cash

into the darkness.  Wyatt turns back and freezed.  Morgan lies

across the table with one leg dangling over the edge, jerking

and shuddering involuntarily.  Wyatt rushes to him.  The dog

whines as Doc rushes in with Kate and McMasters.  Wyatt is

trembling.

INTO - ORIENTAL - NIGHT

The curious crowd outside, watching through the windows.

Morgan is on the pool table, lying on his side with his shirt

pulled up.  The dog cowers in the corner, whining while Dr.

Goodfellow digs into the wound with a steel probe, making

Morgan writhe in perfect agony.  The doctor turns to Wyatt:

Wyatt takes Morgan in his arms.  The doctor probes.  Morgan

jerks violently.  Suddenly we hear a blood-curdling SCREAM.

Louisa is in the doorway, tearing her hair, lost in utter

hysterics.

And now the whole scene sinks into hellish confusion with the

dog whimpering, Louisa shrieking as others restrain her, and

Morgan gives a violet jerk, breaking Wyatt's grip.  The doctor

snarls, about at the end of his rope.

Morgan takes Wyatt's arm, his voice like a child's.

Tears well up in Wyatt's eyes.  He touches his brother's face.

Morgan's eyelids start fluttering.  Wyatt squeezes his hand.

The dog starts howling, long and loud and pitiful-and in the

next moment the air is FILLED with howls as every dog and

coyote for miles joins in the mourning.  Wyatt backs away from

his dead brother and trudges out onto the sidewalk, staring at

the blood on his hands.  Standing in the crowd across the

street, Josephine sees Wyatt and starts for him.  Behan grabs

her.  She wrenches free and with the whole town watching,

starts running toward Wyatt.  Seeing her, Wyatt backs away in

horror, shaking his head:

She keeps coming.  Wyatt panics.  Finally, in desperation:

She pauses, unable to believe her ears, then runs away crying.

Fuming with rage, Kate starts after Wyatt.  Doc pulls her

back:

The howls continue as Wyatt trudges down the street alone.

Suddenly he doubles over, clutching his abdomen in agony,

staring at his bloody hands....

EXT - ALLEN STREET - DAY

The wagon bearing Morgan's pine coffin waits in the street,

hitched and ready.  Virgil is up front with the women, arm in

a sling, pale.  Doc and Kate wait on horses nearby.  Finished

loading, Wyatt looks around.  People line the street, watching

in silence.  Clum and his wounded wife turn away from the

window of their lodgings next door, unable to meet his gaze.

The very air feels charged with paranoia and recrimination, as

if the whole town has suddenly become morally radio-active.

Bystanders gape as Josephine steps out of the hotel, regal and

impervious as a queen, wearing a gawking scorn like a mink

coat, her little white dog scampering after her.  Passing

Behan, he gives her nasty look and spits.  She doesn't even

break stride.  Lounging in front of the Crystal Palace with

the other Cowboys, Stillwell gives Curly Bill an enquiring

look.

Passing Wyatt, she doesn't even glance at him.  Doc sighs:

Without a word Wyatt climbs onto the wagon and shakes the

reins, driving off.  He pulls up in front of the Cowboys.

They make a show of pretending to hide their guns.  Wyatt

looks straight ahead:

Allie's eyes flare, Louisa stifles a sob.  The Cowboys

snicker. Wyatt clenches his teeth, still staring straight

ahead, and drives on.  A few beats then Curly Bill turns to

Ike:

EXT - TRAIN STATION, TUCSON - NIGHT

A train pours steam onto the platform in puffs and clouds

while 2 porters load Morgan's coffin into a boxcar.  Up ahead,

Mattie and Louisa fumble with luggage while Allie boosts

Virgil into a passenger car.  As we HEAR the conductor's voice

shouting, " 'Board!", Ike and Stillwell emerge from the

shadows near the scales, crouched behind shotguns.  They

exchange nods and start forward, cocking their weapons,

squinting through the steam:

They spin around.  Wyatt stands behind them, looking down the

barrels of Virgil's big 10 gauge.  Stillwell raises his

shotgun, Wyatt FIRES.  Stillwell hits the floor in a crumpled

heap, his torso a smoking bundle of bloody rags.  Screams

??????????

Page 87 cut off right side

Page 88 missing

EXT - WAGON TRAIN CAMP - NIGHT

Lucinda's ever-silent son sits at a nearby wagon, staring at

Wyatt while Lucinda rolls dough, lovely as ever.  Just

finished telling his story, Wyatt sits by the fire with the

wagonmaster and several others.  They shaker their head:

Wyatt pauses, nodding, suddenly understanding the truth of it.

Looking up, his eyes meet those of Lucinda.  She smiles,

wiping flour from her hands.  Wyatt smiles thoughtfully, moved

by this unexpected encounter....

EXT - WAGON TRAIN CAMP - MORNING

Next morning.  Doc gallops into camp with McMasters, Texas

Jack Vermillion, and Turkey Creek Jack Johnson, exchanging

greetings with Wyatt who leads him over to the center of the

camp, then:

He points to his 5 magnificent blacks tied nearby.  They look

them over as Wyatt takes out a stack of warrants.

They shake.   Vermillion and Johnson confer in whispers, then:

Wyatt nods.  Vermillion nods to Johnson who crouches down with

a pair of dice.  He makes one pass, two passes... Finally:

EXP - WAGON TRAIN CAMP/DESERT - DAY

The thoroughbreds are saddled and waiting, each with a rifle

in a scabbard and a double-barreled shotgun across the saddle

fork.  Lucinda's son looks on with gathering awe as Wyatt's

men, each carrying 2 pistols, face their boss.

They exchange glances, each man feeling a little shiver at the

magnitude of what they're about to attempt.  Wyatt faces them:

All chorus, "I do", except for Doc who rolls his eyes.

Finally:

Wyatt hands each a Federal Deputy's badges.  Doc waves his

away:

Wyatt shrugs.  They mount up, about to begin, but suddenly:

Lucinda runs up to Wyatt, reaching up and tying a blue and

gold silk scarf around his neck.

Wyatt nods his surprised thanks as the wagonmaster steps up:

They shake hands then Wyatt motions to his men.  They take off

at a graceful lope, riding through camp toward the deadfall

and the desert beyond.  Unable to contain himself any longer,

Lucinda's son bounds up onto a wagon, waving and shouting,

spurring them on with a spontaneous frontier toast:

Wyatt turns in the saddle, sweeping off his hat with a

cavalier's flourish as he and his men take the deadfall in a

single bound and pass into the desert.  An immigrant FATHER

grabs his infant son, lifting him up.

Music up, avenging and bright, as Wyatt and his men ride

through the desert, 5 abreast on their giant chargers, glossy

black coats shimmering in the sunlight, hoofbeats pounding in

unison.

They break into a dead run, streaking across the frame.  As

they crest a rise the ground seems to drop from under them and

for a single perfect moment it appears as if they're airborne,

flying across the skyline like the winged horsemen of myth.

Johnson turns to Vermillion, laughing at the sheer joy of

being alive:

EXT - RUSTLERS PARK - LATE DAY

The sun just starts to dip behind the near end of the ridge

overlooking the camp where on one side Florentino and several

Cowboys sit in a circle, playing poker while others recline on

bedrolls, laughing and drinking.  On the other side, at the

foot of the ridge, Spence, Pony Deal, and 2 others crouch over

a fire, cooking.  Suddenly the cattle nestled under the far

end of the ridge start bleating.  Spence turns to Pony Deal

who shrugs:

SPENCE

The Cowboy mount a pinto pony and lopes up and over the far

side of the ridge.  Spence and the others continue cooking.

Moments later a CRASHING SOUND comes echoing over the ridge

like thunder.  The Cowboys look up, startled.  Pony Deal

points:

The pinto gallops riderless back over the ridge.  The Cowboys

exchange confused glances, all attention focused on the far

end of the ridge.  Then the five black horsemen ride out of

the sun, gliding like apparitions up and over the near end of

the ridge and bearing down on the unsuspecting camp with the

speed of a flame.  They are within a few yards of the fire

when Johnny Barnes suddenly spots them and:

Spence and the others turn and just have time to gasp before

Wyatt and his horsemen SLAM into them with terrifying impact,

the bodies disappearing under their horses' hooves.  The

Cowboys recoil in total shock, jumping up from bedrolls,

stumbling in confusion, scrambling to get out of the way as

the possemen plow through the fire and roar into camp, pistols

BLAZING in air, horses rearing and snorting.

Everyone freezes.  A worried-looking Florentino shrinks back

behind the others, trying not to be spotted.  Meanwhile Doc

leans down and pokes his pistol into a nearby Cowboy's

forehead.

They herd the Cowboys over to one side of camp, shouting, "Get

over there!",  "Move it!", etc.  But Barnes brazens up to

Wyatt:

A loud crack as Wyatt's quirt lays his face open to the bone.

Doc and Wyatt cover the Cowboys while the others scatter their

herd with pistol shots.  Indignant, Swilling sneers at Wyatt:

A queer look in his eye, Wyatt dismounts and faces Swilling.

And then Wyatt DRILLS him in the jaw with a straight right

hand.  Swilling drops like a stone.  Wyatt hauls him up by the

hair and hammers him left-right-left, steps around, digs down,

and pile-drives a left hook to his gut.  Swilling topples back

into a seated position then rolls over with a moan and passes

out.  Meanwhile, seeing his chance, Florentino ducks down and

makes for the remuda as Doc looks down at Swilling.

At the remuda Florentino leaps on a horse and gallops off

bareback.  McMasters point, pulling his rifle from its

scabbard:

McMasters draws a bead on the retreating form with his '76

Winchester and FIRES.  100 yards away, the bullet hits

Florentino's horse in the shoulder with a "thunk".  It drops,

tumbling end over end and plunging Florentino face-first into

the ground.  He jumps up, spitting out a mouthful, and starts

running.  Wyatt leaps on this black and it streaks forward,

closing the distance in seconds.  Florentino gasps and runs

faster, pulling a bellygun from his sash, Wyatt almost on top

of him.  He turns and FIRES on the run.  A branch next to

Wyatt's head EXPLODES.  Wyatt keeps coming, drawing his

Buntline, impervious, unstoppable.  Florentino turns for

another shot just as the black PILES into him, sending him

flying and tumbling him down an embankment.  He scrambles to

his feet as Wyatt dismounts, starting toward him with

deliberate step, eyes blazing, long-barreled pistol held in

front of him.  Florentino backs up in terror, gun at his side,

shaking his head:

Wyatt nods, still coming, cold-blooded murder in his eye.

Florentino screams, raising his gun:

Wyatt FIRES, blasting Florentino to the ground.  He advances,

FIRING over and over, emptying his gun into him....

EXT - RUSTLER'S PARK - LATE DAY

The Cowboys watch as Wyatt gallops up, dragging Florentino's

bullet-riddled body behind him.  He reins up, un-dallying the

rope.  The corpse flops at their feet.  They jump back,

horrified.

As his men prepare to fire the camp, several Cowboys move to

pick up Floretino's body, but:

EXT - RUSTLER'S PARK - DUSK

Wyatt and his men ride through the blazing camp, the flames

lighting up his eyes like a demon's....

EXT - DESERT CAMP - NIGHT

The possemen crouch by their fire.  Doc sits shivering

miserably by himself as Vermillion turns to Johnson.

Meanwhile Wyatt and McMasters confer over a map.  Wyatt points

to a specific point on the map, very interested:

EXT - DESERT/MOUNTAIN CUT - DAY

Now we see what so interested Wyatt-it's the same mountain cut

where he and Josephine met.  Pony Deal and a party of 10

Cowboys ride through the desert 300 yards from the cut,

pushing a herd.

They look.  Wyatt and his horsemen stand waiting at the mouth

of the cut.  They tense, the 1st Cowboy squinting against the

sun.  At the cut, Wyatt and his men poise themselves, Doc

nodding:

The Cowboys charge forward, outnumbering them better than 2 to

1 and only 100 yards away.  The possemen choke up on their

reins, alerting their horses for action as:

75 yards and the first shots RING out, richochetting off the

walls of the cut.  The others blanch but Wyatt stays cool,

waiting, 50 yards... 40 yards... till we can see their eyes

and:

They whirl around and disappear into the cut.  The Cowboys

keep coming.  Wyatt's group reaches the little trail leading

up the wall of the cut he used to avoid Josephine.  They

clamber up the side of the cut at a bounding gallop, unseen,

as moments later the Cowboys gallop by and continue through

into the desert on the other side.  Wyatt's group careens up

and around the high mountain wall as if on a roller-coaster,

following the tiny, narrow path at a breathtaking clip, the

trail finally plunging them back into the draw behind the

Cowboys.  They speed up to the opposite mouth of the cut,

drawing their pistols as the Cowboys gallop into the desert

before them, unaware.

They CHARGE forward.  Seeing the empty desert ahead, the

Cowboys pull up, looking around in confusion.  Suddenly a

VOLLEY of GUNFIRE hits them from behind, knocking several from

the saddle.  They spin around just as Wyatt's group SLAMS into

them HEAD-ON, guns BLAZING, Cowboys tumbling from the saddle

left and right, horses rearing and toppling over backwards.

The remaining Cowboys turn and dash into the desert.  Wyatt

shouts:

Wyatt's group CHARGES, the thoroughbreds closing the distance

in seconds.  Vermillion stands in his stirrups, roaring like

an animal as he PLUNGES into them, swinging his quirt like a

saber and LASHING a Cowboy across the face, making him tumble

to the earth and bounce over the rocks like a rag doll.

McMasters closes with another, throwing an arm around him and

JERKING him from the saddle, SNAPPING his neck.  Doc overtakes

a 3rd, jams his pistol into his face and FIRES point-blank,

blackening his face with soot and BLOWING out the back of his

head as he falls.  Reins in his teeth, shotgun at his

shoulder, Johnson comes up behind a 4th and FIRES.  The

Cowboy's head DISAPPEARS in a cloud of pink vapor, the body

dropping like a stone....

Wyatt bears down on Pony Deal at a dead run.  Pony Deal turns

in the saddle and FIRES at him.  We feel a surge of breathless

exhilaration as Wyatt swings out of the saddle like a

Commanche and ducks his body down against the side of his

horse, hiding in its lee.  Pony Deal turns for another shot

only to see an apparently riderless horse overtake him.  But

in the next instant Wyatt darts around under his horse's neck

and FIRES, blowing Pony Deal head-over-heels off the back of

his horse.  Wyatt bounds back into the saddle as McMasters

rides by, drawing a bead with his rifle on the lone survivor,

the 1st Cowboy.  Only a few yards in front of them, he whips

his horse frantically, trying to get away.  McMasters is about

to fire when Wyatt rides up, deflecting the shot.  The Cowboy

makes it over a rise and disappears.

EXT - COWBOY CAMP - NIGHT

Curly Bill studies a map drawn in the dirt, listening with

Ringo, Ike, etc. while the 1st Cowboy describes the battle:

Curly Bill grins, his coarse face radiant in the firelight...

EXT - WYATT'S CAMP - NIGHT

Doc sits by the fire, shaking and shivering and sweating.

Vermillion comes up and tries to cover him with a blanket,

but:

He pulls back.  Doc wraps himself in the blanket.  After a

beat:

Meanwhile at the other side of the camp, Wyatt and McMasters

huddle over the map, Johnson walks up:

EXT - IRON SPRINGS - DAWN

A camp near a waterhole with 2 Cowboys crouched by a fire,

sipping coffee.  Wyatt's men ride up to the rocks overlooking

it and dismount, unseen.

They pull shotguns from their saddles and start down over the

rocks on foot, creeping up on the camp, seemingly undetected.

But suddenly the Cowboys by the fire dive behind a log and:

And suddenly the deadfall on the opposite side EXPLODES IN

GUNFIRE.  Vermillion takes a graze and drops with the others,

hugging the rocks.  A bullet RICHOCHETS into a rock at

Johnson's head, biting his face with fragments, making him

wince:

Hunched behind the logs on the opposite side with 15 more

Cowboys, Curly Bill raises his head, grinning and shouting:

Wyatt and his men react to his voice.  The fire continues.

Suddenly there's MOVEMENT in the rocks above them.  Doc

points:

Seeing the spot they're in, McMasters turns to the silent

Wyatt:

And now for the first time we see fear in these men, actual

naked fear.  But Curly Bill laughs, having the time of his

life.

Crouched by Curly Bill, Barnes chuckles.  A confident ripple

of laughter goes through the Cowboy line-they know they've got

them.  On the other side, Vermillion shakes his head grimly.

McMasters looks at the still silent Wyatt, shrugging

helplessly:

They really are at the end of their rope, all looking to Wyatt

for a solution.  He remains silent.  Then suddenly, in this

supreme moment, a strange, almost supernatural calm seems to

come over him and he says simply:

And now we can almost hear the ether RINGING in our ears as

Wyatt takes his shotgun and, while the others look on in

horror, rises to his feet.

Bullets WHIZ around him.  Doc jumps up to grab him but a

RICOCHET drives him back down.  Wyatt advances quickly across

the clearing, walking right into the teeth of their guns,

repeating:

Wyatt's clothes jerk and ripple as bullets pass through, but

he just keeps coming.  Seeing this, Curly Bill also stands, a

weird, manic elation coming over him.  He hoots and howls:

Curly Bill waves away his men's fire and walks toward Wyatt,

12 gauge shotgun in one hand, .45 in the other, BLASTING away.

Curly Bill FIRES again.  Wyatt's hat flies off.  He FIRES

again, digging a gash in Wyatt's boot-heel.  Now Curly Bill

takes dead aim with his .45 and-CLICK-it's empty.  He tosses

it aside.  Suddenly a sharp wind gusts up, making the tails of

Wyatt's duster swirl around him like a halo as he advances.

Eyes wild with battle rage, Curly Bill quickly raises his

shotgun.

He FIRES.  Wyatt's coattails EVAPORATE into swirling shreds as

he takes deliberate aim with his mighty 10 gauge, hissing

through clenched teeth:

And with that, Wyatt lets go with BOTH BARRELS.  Curly Bill's

mid-section VAPORIZES, the huge double-charge of buckshot

RIPPING HIM COMPLETELY IN HALF.  The other Cowboys flinch as

they're sprayed with flecks of blood and gore.  Barnes

screams:

Eyes burning like two twin hells, Wyatt pulls his Buntline and

FIRES.  Barnes doubles over.  Wyatt FIRES again.  Barnes

drops.  The others recoil, their faces looking as if they are

living in a waking nightmare as Wyatt advances on them, STILL

FIRING.  Another goes down.  Doc leaps from the rocks, gun in

hand, and:

Now they all rise and OPEN FIRE, advancing 4 abreast, a WALL

OF GUNFIRE driving the remaining Cowboys off, running for

their horses.  Wyatt keeps snapping his empty gun as the

others run up.

Beside himself, Doc helps Wyatt to a nearby rock, sitting him

down and examining him, running his hands all over his body.

The others FIRE at the Cowboys retreating on horseback.

They look.  Meanwhile Wyatt starts to tremble....

EXT - CAMP - NIGHT

They're camped by a running stream.  Wyatt stares into the

fire.  Doc crouches opposite him, shaking his head:

At the other end of camp, Vermillion and Johnson sit together.

After a beat:

Vermillion nods.  Both look shaken to the very core of their

beings.  Finally:

EXT - CAMP - MORNING

Wyatt sits by the fire, sipping coffee.  Vermillion and

Johnson approach.  Johnson drops a wad of money on Wyatt's

bedroll.  Wyatt looks up in surprise:

Wyatt nods, picks up the money and quietly moves off toward

the stream by himself.  Moments later, McMasters approaches:

EXT - COWBOY CAMP - NIGHT

Ringo crouches by the fire with the other Cowboys, his face a

deeply shadowed mask.  2 Iron Springs survivors stand before

him:

Ringo starts making strange little inarticulate sounds,

inhaling and exhaling like an animal, eyes swimming in

panic....

Ringo looks up at them, suddenly dead calm, his face a blank.

Out of nowhere, Ringo draws and FIRES 2 shots so quickly they

sound like one.  The 2 survivors drop with bullets through

their brains.  The others jump, transfixed by the insane

brutality of what he's just done.  Ringo draws himself up, in

full possession of the situation, the new leader, fearsome,

matchless:

EXT - COWBOY CAMP - NIGHT

Later.  Most of the others are asleep or talking among

themselves as Billy Grounds turns to Zwing Hunt, whispering:

They steal away toward the horses as....

INT - ALLEN STREET - DAY

Ringo faces Behan, grim, intent, while Behan sputters, holding

up a San Francisco newspaper:

Ringo glares at Behan, his eyes burning, implacable:

EXT - COWBOY CAMP - DAY

Ringo rides up with Behan and dismounts.  A 3rd Cowboy steps

up:

Behan looks worried as Ike and the other Cowboys gather

around.  Just then Breakenridge rides up.

Ringo slaps the little deputy on the back and turns to his

men.  His unaccustomed good humor is very troubling.

EXT - DESERT - DAY

Now we've come full circle as Ringo rides across the desert at

the head of his men 30 strong, armed to the teeth, full of

fight-and all wearing Deputy Sheriff's BADGES, a posse of

outlaws, a miserable Behan bringing up the rear....

EXT - DESERT PLATEAU - DAY

Wyatt and his men watch from a plateau as far out on the

horizon, the Cowboy Posse rides out of the sun, drawing

closer:

They all exchange looks of disbelief, then:

Suddenly looking very sick, Doc sways dizzily in the saddle.

Wyatt dismounts, reaching for him.  The others do the same:

Doc turns his horse, as if to ride on, then faints dead away.

They all catch him, easing him to the ground as....

EXT - HOOKER'S RANCH - DAY

Wyatt's group rides over the hill overlooking the ranch house

Vermillion keeping Doc in the saddle.  Hooker and 3 of his

hands rides out to them:

Wyatt nods.  Hooker motions down the hill toward his house....

INT- BEDROOM, HOOKER'S RANCH - LATE DAY

Doc lies in bed, semi-conscious, white as a sheet, drenched in

sweat.  The others look on, worried.  Hooker shakes his head:

His face creased with worry, Wyatt sits down next to Doc.

McMasters motions to the others.  They file out, leaving Wyatt

alone with his friend....

EXT - HILL OVERLOOKING CROSSROADS - SUNSET

Grounds and Hunt ride up and stop on the top of a hill

overlooking a mountain crossroads somewhere in the Whetstones.

Suddenly a STAGECOACH comes into view, making its winding way

through the crossroads below.  Hunt points, grinning:

They spur their horses down the hill, drawing their guns....

EXT - COWBOY CAMP # 2 - NIGHT

The Cowboy posse is camped in a draw up in the Whetstones.

They look up as the stage rolls up and stops.  Shouting and

commotion as Behan and Breakenridge approach and confer with

the driver, then Behan turns to Ringo:

Behan opens the door.  Mr. Fabian lies inside cradled in

Josephine's arms, surrounded by the other actors in the

troupe.  Reclined at full length, head back, he looks like the

dying Hamlet, even more beautiful than in life.  Breakenridge

gasps:

Ringo shrugs.  His soft face suddenly turning resolute.

Breakenridge goes to his horse and mounts.

The little deputy straightens his spectacles, turning to

Behan:

And he rides off alone into the Whetstones.  Behan sputters,

but:

EXT - HOOKER'S RANCH - NIGHT

The stage is stopped out front.  The driver waters the horses

and the actors mill around silently.  Wyatt and Hooker walk

out:

Seeing each other, Wyatt and Josephine freeze.  Wyatt

approaches:

The driver jumps back onto the stage, motioning to the others.

She stops.  Wyatt falters.  There's so much he wants to say,

but... Finally:

Wyatt opens the coach door for her.  She gets in.  It pulls

out with a crack of the driver's whip.  She and Wyatt hold

each other's gaze as the stage recedes into the distance.

Then:

Creek Johnson steps up next to him.  Wyatt looks at him:

EXT - COLD CAMP - NIGHT

A cold camp in the hollow of a mountain.  Wrapped n blankets,

Grounds and Hunt sip cold coffee.  Grounds shivers.  Hunts

pats him:

Grounds grunts.  Suddenly there's an O.S. SOUND.  Both jump

up.

Breakenridge steps from the shadows, Winchester at his

shoulder, squinting through the dark with his spectacles.

They relax and lower their pistols, heaving sighs of relief.

Grounds steps forward menancingly.  Breakenridge tenses:

Grounds raises his pistol.  Breakenridge recoils in fright,

stumbling backward in the dark, and his rifle accidentally

FIRES.  Grounds drops like a stone, a look of utter disbelief

on his dying face.  Hunt looks at him in shock then turns on

Breakenridge, raising his gun and snarling.  Breakenridge

FIRES again.  Hunt grabs his midsection, dropping his gun and

falling to his knees.  He looks up at Breakenridge who shrugs

timidly:

Hunt falls over, dead.  Breakenridge stares at the bodies,

hardly believing it himself....

EXT - FRONT PORCH, HOOKER'S RANCH - MORNING

Wyatt and his men are on the porch, listening to Hooker:

Wyatt shakes his head, hardly comprehending what he

started....

EXT - COWBOY CAMP #3 - DAY

The Cowboys are camped on a mountaintop overlooking Hooker's

ranch in the valley below.  A messenger rides up with a letter

for Behan as Ringo paces, studying the set up with Ike.

Behan suddenly steps up, beside himself, holding up his

message:

EXT - FRONT PORCH, HOOKER'S RANCH - LATE DAY

Wyatt stands on the front porch, looking through the front

door to the back bedroom where Doc lies unconscious while

Hooker and the others look on:

They look up as the 3rd Cowboy rides up with a white kerchief.

Before Wyatt can answer, McMasters rides off with the

Cowboy....

EXT - HOOKER HILL COWBOY CAMP #3 - LATE DAY

McMasters rides up with the 3rd Cowboy.  Riding through camp,

all his former comrades flares at him with pure hate.  Only

Ringo smiles, stepping up as McMasters dismounts.

Ringo moves closer, looking him in the eye and smiling:

EXT - HOOKER'S RANCH - LATE DAY

The 3rd Cowboy rides up to the ranch house, dumps a large

SOMETHING in front, and gallops back to just within earshot as

Wyatt and his men run up.  The object is a human corpse and

though we can't see what was done to it, the expressions on

their faces are plain enough.

In tight on Wyatt as these words sink in and....

INT - BEDROOM, HOOKER RANCH - LATE DAY

It's late and the last rays of the sun come through the

window, falling on the bed where Doc lies, awake but looking

like hell.  Wyatt sits next to him, staring at the floor.

After a moment:

Doc looks at him, a look of purest sadness in his sunken eyes.

Wyatt looks down again and it's a long time before he speaks:

Doc shakes his head.  Wyatt nods then stands, ready to exit,

but:

Doc struggles to sit up, sweating and trembling, finally

falling back down, almost passing out.  Wyatt puts a hand on

his forehead.

Doc points to Wyatt's badge.  He takes it off, pressing it

into Doc's hand.  Doc smiles then does pass out.  Wyatt

exits....

EXT - FRONT PORCH, HOOKER RANCH - LATE DAY

It's late, almost sunset.  Wyatt steps onto the porch where

Hooker and the others wait.  He glances back into the house,

looking at the unconscious Doc through the open bedroom door.

Wyatt nods gratefully, offering his hand.  Hooker takes it,

abashed.  Wyatt mounts up with Johnson and Vermillion.  They

ride off at a slow gallop, 3 figures against the twilight

sky....

EXT - HOOKER HILL/COWBOY CAMP #3 - LATE DAY

Ringo waits atop the hill with Ike and the 3rd Cowboy watching

as Wyatt's group rides out:

EXT - HOOKER RANCH - LATE DAY

Ringo and the others ride up.  Hooker steps up with several

hands.

Ringo squints through the front door of the house to the open

bedroom where Doc lies unconscious, chest heaving, sweating.

Hooker and his men look resolute.  Ringo smiles, nodding:

Ringo and his men ride off.  At the crossroads they stop, Ike

peeling off.

And they gallop off in opposite directions as....

EXT - SULPHUR SPRINGS CANYON - LATE DAY

2 Cowboys, Ringo's seconds, ride up to where Wyatt and his men

stand dismounted, waiting.  One points to a thicket nearby:

EXT - NORTH ROAD - LATE DAY

Behan and the other Cowboys wait at the road above the canyon.

30 strong, mounted and ready.  Ike rides up, full of

anticipation:

EXT - SULPHUR SPRINGS CANYON - SUNSET

Sunset.  Ringo's seconds wait nearby as Wyatt whispers to his

men:

Wyatt shakes hands with Vermillion who turns away with

emotion, hiding his face.  Wyatt turns to Johnson.

Wyatt pats his shoulder and walks off alone into the thicket,

the only sound the musical clinking and chiming of his

spurs....

EXT - THICKET - SUNSET

A gorgeous sunset, yellow and red and magenta.  Making his way

down the trail, Wyatt looks up at the sky.  A flock of wild

geese fly overhead in V-formation, oblivious to the human

drama below.  Wyatt stops, drinking it all in, as if trying to

grab all he can in the time left.  Suddenly he closes his

eyes, falling to his knees, trembling, afraid for the first

time.  He clasps his hands:

Wyatt stands back up, his fear gone, replaced by calm, his

face luminous, almost angelic.  He walks on, spurs still

chiming as....

EXT - OAK GROVE - SUNSET

A clearing by a creek with a cluster of small oaks.  Ringo

leans against a tree, sipping from a hip flask, smoking a slim

cheroot.  We HEAR the CHIMING spurs approach.  Ringo looks up

as the tall silhouette of his enemy emerges from the shadows

of the thicket.

Ringo stiffens as the silhouette steps into the waning light.

It's DOC, pale and drawn, looking like death itself, but awake

and ready just the same:

For the last time, that Cheshire cat smile comes over Doc's

face:

Ringo nods, his hock replaced by a growing malice.  As they

set themselves, once again their eyes begin to blaze, boring

into each other, their concentrated rage focusing on each

other, about to reach critical mass....

A long tense moment then both grunt in unison.  Blurred

movement, the FLASH of a GUNSHOT.  Doc slaps his gun back in

it's holster as Ringo stumbles, a bullet hole in the side of

his head....

EXT - THICKET - SUNSET

Back in the thicket, Wyatt HEARS the gunshot and starts

running...

EXT - OAK GROVE - SUNSET

Blood coursing from the hole in his head, frenzied messages

flickering all through his shattered brain, going only on pure

hate, Ringo stumbles and jerks, struggling to raise his

pistol.  Doc dances in front of him, urging him on:

But finally Ringo falls over into the crook of the oak tree,

his pistol firing into the air harmlessly.  Doc looks down at

him, shaking his head:

Just then Wyatt appears, looking at Doc in total shock.

Doc looks at him like he's a fool then points to Ringo:

Suddenly we hear HORSES crashing through the brush toward

them.

They dash off into the thicket.  Moments later Ringo's seconds

ride out into the grove.  Seeing Ringo's body, their jaws

drop....

EXT - CANYON MOUTH - SUNSET

Vermillion and Johnson practically jump for joy as Wyatt and

Doc emerge from the thicket, Doc leading his horse.

EXT - NORTH ROAD - SUNSET

Alert by the shots, Ike turns to Behan and the others.

EXT - CANYON MOUTH - SUNSET

Vermillion and Johnson are mounted, watching while Doc tries

to climb up into the saddle with excruciating slowness.

Though on his feet, it's clear Doc is as sick as ever,

sweating and panting, running on sheer animal courage.  Wyatt

stands behind him, his hands poised to help, trying to will

him into the saddle, jerking his hands behind him every time

Doc looks back.  Finally, with a last grunt, Doc throws a leg

over his horse and drops into the saddle.  Wyatt mounts, turns

to his men, pointing:

Wyatt looks at Doc, who shrugs.  Wyatt swings his horse

alongside, suddenly noticing his badge on Doc's chest.  Doc

smiles wanly:

He starts unpinning it but Wyatt stops him, pressing his palm

onto the badge over Doc's heart.   A last look around each

other then Wyatt signals and they start up the north road at

the lope, four abreast, the last charge of Wyatt Earp and his

immortals....

EXT - NORTH ROAD - SUNSET

From a lookout position above, a COWBOY calls down to the

others:

Behan heaves a sigh of relief, glancing around at the others.

But suddenly Ringo's seconds gallop up from the flank:

Straining to see in the falling light, the cowboy on the rock

shouts excitedly:

The word starts to spread, the crowd of horsemen BUZZING.

Suddenly, off in the distance, the 4 horsemen come into view,

coming straight at them at a lope.

Down the road, Wyatt asnd his men pull their shotguns, holding

them at the ready as they break into a gallop.  The Cowboy on

the rock jumps down, mounting his horse.

The Cowboys line-up on a rise, blocking the road.  They draw

their guns.  Wyatt and his men keep coming, now 200 yards

away.  Behan groans, panic sinking sour and heavy, churning

his bowels:

Now Wyatt's men break into a dead run, hurtling toward them at

top speed, their thoroughbreds eating up the distance, now

only 100 yards away.  The Cowboys tense up more and more,

biting lips, grinding teeth.  The 4th Cowboy turns to the

nearby 3rd Cowboy:

They break and run.  So does another.  Suddenly the whole mass

of them EXPLODES in panic with horsemen riding in all

directions, scurrying away like cockroaches from a light.  Ike

looks around, screaming at them, beside himself as the 4th

Cowboy rides by:

The others keep going, leaving him behind.  But seeing Wyatt

bearing down on him, Ike finally bolts himself, pounding off

hell-for-leather into the hills.  Wyatt and his men keep

coming at a full gallop and as they crest the rise, suddenly,

as before, the ground seems to fall out from under them and

for another burning moment they once again appear airborne,

grim-faced avenging angels on winged horses, now even more

majestic in the twilight, like a myth made flesh, awesome,

superb, and unutterably beautiful.  As they approach, only

Breakenridge remains, giving them a tentative wave.  Wyatt

points a finger at him as they ride by in a flash, cresting

another rise and passing into legend....

INT - HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

The CLOCK on the wall of this private DENVER hospital room

ticks gently but inexorably as Doc lies in bed with FATHER

FEENEY, a Catholic priest, sitting at his side.  Painfully

emaciated, his breathing shallow and labored, Doc is so weak

it's all he can do to even move his eyes.  But he brightens as

Wyatt enters:

Wyatt stares into his eyes, letting this sink in.  Just then,

Doc looks up, as if something were pressing on him.  Then:

They look at each other and something passes between them,

something so personal and powerful it transcends emotion.

Wyatt starts to speak, but:

Doc turns away.  Wyatt exits.  Doc looks over at Father

Feeney:

Father Feeney nods, picking up his Missal.  As he starts to

intone the Last Rites, Doc looks down at the end of the bed

and sees his feet poking through the sheets.  They are bare.

Doc smiles:

INT - DENVER THEATER STAGE - NIGHT

A lively road company production of "H.M.S. Pinafore".

Josephine and 3 chorus girls, all adorable in out-size sailor

suits do the seamen's hornpipe to the resounding applause of

the audience....

INT - DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Josephine and her fellow chorines, including the 1st Actress

from before, all in various stages of undress, sit at the long

mirror, removing their make-up and chatting:

Suddenly the door bursts open.  Screams and stunned reaction.

Wyatt rushes in and goes to Josephine who sits in stunned

silence.  He falls to his knees and grabs the hem of her robe.

Wyatt stands, pulling her close, clasping her hands in his:

INT/EXT - TRAIN - DAY

Brilliant sunlight, clean, crisp air as a train hurtles

through a pass high up in the Rocky Mountains, blowing its

whistle and sending a giant plume of steam billowing up over

the sheer, towering, snow-topped mountain walls into the

crystal-clear sky above.  Wyatt leads Josephine by the hand

through the parlor car, both hardly able to contain

themselves, brimming over with excitement and anticipation,

like children waiting for Christmas morning and trying to

ignore the group of REPORTERS dogging their footsteps,

swarming around them, calling out to Wyatt:

Wyatt and Josephine hunch down and duck through a knot of

porters into the next car.  Only the 1st Reporter gives chase.

Moving into the passenger car furthest forward, Wyatt leads

her through the door to the platform over the coupling between

cars.  Chugging up a steep grade toward a high crest, the

train is immersed in shadows.  Wyatt points ahead to the

approaching crest:

Inside meanwhile, the 1st Reporter comes through the car and

spots them up.  A business-type PASSENGER tugs on his sleeve:

PASSENGER

What's the commotion?  Who are they?

Outside, still bathed in shadows, Wyatt and Josephine hang

onto the railing and lean out, watching in as the train nears

the top.

Then, as if on cue, they crest the mountain and are suddenly

bathed in golden sunlight, their heads leaning from the train,

Wyatt's blonde hair and Josephine's black tresses flowing in

the breeze, their faces luminous, looking straight ahead

toward their future.  Hold on this image as the sun gets

brighter and brighter, finally making the frame white-out as

we....

EPILOG/DESERT : an OLD MAN and WOMAN walk arm-in-arm through

the Mojave, tiny figures in a vast landscape, Sierras looming

in the distance.

The figures of the old man and woman fade away, leaving only

the desert and the mountains which are eternal....

Flickering images from early Hollywood silent films split the

frame: on one side the grim but impassioned figure of William

S. Hart, the original western good-badman crouched menacingly

behind a pair of sixguns, his costume dusty and severe; and on

the other side Tom Mix, the original western fantasy hero, so

light-hearted and optimistic with his sunny grin and fancy

white outfit....

HOLD on these two images as the music swells and we....

THE END

