REVISED

April 4, 1985

Registered, WGAw.

1.  EXT. NIGHT. - THE PACIFIC IS ANYTHING BUT

WINDS HOWL. Rain drives horizontal. The sea surges up,

nearly to the flight deck of the Aircraft Carrier USS Kitty

Hawk. The carrier plunges, driving its bow into a wall of

grey water. The deck pitches forward and back, rolls left to

right, and yaws in a corkscrew motion. The entire 93,000 ton

behemoth rises and falls in the TYPHOON-DRIVEN SWELL.

2.  SOMETHING DROPS DOWN OUT OF THE NIGHT

A ROAR. Silver wings flash by, a cockpit, fiery jet

exhausts. A forty ton monster drops at 120 knots into an area

the size of a tennis court in a CONTROLLED CRASH.

2A.  A SHOWER OF SPARKS, A SCREECH OF RUBBER AND METAL as

the gear hits the deck. The hook catches the 3 wire and the

F-14 TOMCAT is slammed to a halt. It's the scariest thing

you've ever seen, the most dangerous maneuver in aviation and

just another day at the office for a Naval Aviator.

TITLES OVER

HARD DRIVING ROCK AND ROLL - THE CARS - RIDE ME HIGH

3.  FLIGHT DECK - THE LANDING SIGNAL OFFICER - (LSO)

Leans almost horizontal into the winds. He holds the pickle,

controlling the landing lights and speaks into a mike. His

calm, professional commands belie the extreme conditions.

POWER, POWER...DON'T CLIMB...

OKAY, HOLD WHAT YOU GOT.

4.  ANOTHER TOMCAT FLIES OVER THE RAMP

It slams in. The pilot hits full power, catches the wire, slams

to a stop, cuts his engines.

5.  OMITTED

6.  AIR OPS - BELOW DECK

Lots of scopes and electronic gear. The CARRIER CONTROL APPROACH

OFFICER (CCA) watches a blip on radar, reaches for his mike key.

7.  EXT. THE TWILIGHT'S LAST GLEAMING - (AERIAL)

We float like gods, above the storm, above the cloud cover,

looking down. From overhead, a probe slides into frame, then

a graceful nose. The cockpit sides by, Pilot, then Radar

Intercept Officer (RIO) barely illuminated by the orange glow

of their instruments. The fuselage gracefully swells to two

enormous air intakes, then variable angle wings, swept back

for high speed flight. Twin tailbooms cant outward,

horizontal stabilizers make constant adjustments. Enormous

twin jet exhaust ports glow red in the moonlight.

8.  INT. COCKPIT - (AERIAL)

We become aware of WIND WHISTLE, JET ENGINE SOUNDS, RADIO

STATIC. The pilot, COUGAR, is calm, steady. The Radar

Intercept Officer in the backseat, GOOSE, is a wildman,

always an edge of humor in his voice. A UHF transmission

breaks in..

GHOST RIDER, THIS IS STRIKE... WE

HAVE UNKNOWN CONTACT INBOUND,

MUSTANG. YOUR VECTOR ZERO NINE ZERO

FOR BOGEY.

Almost immediately the RIO picks up a target and responds.

CONTACT 20 LEFT AT 25, 900 KNOTS

CLOSURE.

8A.  ANGLE - SECOND F-14 - 115 - COUGAR'S WINGMAN

Come in on the cockpit with stenciled name and call signs: LT.

EVAN MITCHELL is the pilot, MAVERICK. In flight suit and oxygen

mask, we can only see his eyes. they are confident. In his

mid-twenties, he is lean, hard, athletic...the archetype fighter

pilot. His rear-seater is LTJG. WALTER MERLIN; WIZARD.

I'LL I.D. HIM, YOU HOOK 'EM.

Maverick peels off to right, to high cover position; 5 o'clock.

9.  INT. GHOST RIDER 117 - COUGAR'S POV

HEADS UP DISPLAY (HUD) glows dimly on the windscreen. Directly

in front of the stick, two CRT screens display data. The bottom

screen shows a radar sweep. Wedged between the instruments is a

snapshot of a pretty young woman with a 2 month-old baby.

Closing fast. MUSTANG, THIS IS

GHOST RIDER ONE ONE SEVEN. CONTACT

ONE BOGEY, 090 AT 15 MILES, 900

KNOTS OF CLOSURE.

Look for the trailer.

I don't see anything.  MAVERICK,

YOU HAVE A TRAILER?

10.  MAVERICK'S F-14

Flying in combat spread, 1 mile abeam, higher.

NEGATIVE, COUGAR. LOOKS LIKE HE'S

SINGLE.

11.  INT. 117 - COUGAR'S COCKPIT

HANG BACK AND WATCH FOR HIM. HERE

COMES...MIG ONE.

12.  EXT. SKY

Closing at 900 knots, The MiG is a speck, then a flash and a

ROAR, a knife-edge pass at 300 feet. It rockets past his left

wing tip and disappears. Cougar kicks rudder, whips the stick,

screams into a tight turning roll and dives after him. He slams

the throttle forward to ZONE 5 AFTERBURNER.

13.  EXT. - MAVERICK'S F-14

Maverick sees a SECOND MiG drop from above onto Cougar's tail.

BOGEY ON YOUR SIX. I'M ON HIS.

Maverick swings after him, lights it.

13A.  ALL FOUR JETS SCREAM DOWN IN A POWER DIVE.

They punch through cloud cover into the soup.

14.  EXT. COUGAR'S F-14

He is closing on the first MiG when a shocking BLIPBLIPBLIPBLIP

tone breaks into their headsets.

I've got a six strobe.  I think

he's locked on us.

It's a MiG 21. They don't have

radar missiles!

Let's hope you're right!

What is he doing?

He's pissing me off!

Cougar swings mad gyrations, cutting back and forth across the

front MiG's tailpipe, trying to break the lock-on. The TONE grows

more insistant.

Can't shake him.

WHAT'S MIG ONE DOING?

Maintaining course. Straight for

Mustang.

Stay with him.

The tone grows steady, BLIPBLIPBLIPBLIP.

That's missile lock!

He better be kidding!

Lordy!  Eyeball to Asshole.

Hope nobody burps!

14A.  INT. MAVERICK'S F-14

I'LL LOCK ON THEM, COUGAR. (to himself)

Gotcha covered, don't nobody move.

I'M UP HERE TOO, MAVERICK.

ROGER, COUGAR. (to himself and his RIO)

Okay boys, pull out with your hands up

and nobody'll get hurt.

14B.  INT. COUGAR'S F-14

Up front, Cougar checks his gunsight...He gets I.R. lock...

We're locked on MiG ONE. Why

doesn't he disengage?

These guys are getting on my

nerves.

14C.   FINALLY, MIG ONE TURNS AWAY.

GHOST RIDER TO MUSTANG. BANDITS

TURNING AWAY.

But Cougar presses forward, and MiG TWO stays on his tail.

COUGAR, BREAK LEFT. TRY A HIGH G

ROLL UNDERNEATH. BREAK OUT THE

BOTTOM.

Anger gives way to discipline. Cougar's Tomcat breaks left,

dives into dense cloud. MiG TWO still follows.

HE'S STILL ON YOU, COUGAR.

15.  EXT. COUGAR - IN THE CLOUDS

Still hears the tone, BLIPBLIPBLIP...

I KNOW. I KNOW.

He rolls over into wild evasive maneuvers, finally breaks lock.

16.  INT. MIG

Breaks out of cloud, looks around, startled.  There is nothing,

no F-14. He scans the sky frantically, while rolling the

aircraft. ...Suddenly, he feels a presence. He looks straight up

and behind him. A few feet away, a TOMCAT slides into position

canopy to canopy, an incredible feat of flying. Maverick and

Wizard stare at him. Maverick slides even closer, canopies nearly

touching. The MiG pilot acknowledges them with a weak wave.

Maverick stares for a moment, then flips him the bird.

The MiG pushes negative G, hard down and away. He heads for the

deck.

He's running for it.

Ah, the thrill of victory and the

agony of defeat.

Speaking of feet, fuel's down to

4.0.  We're gonna get them wet

unless we find a Sonoco station.

COUGAR, THIS IS MAVERICK.  I'M

GETTING HUNGRY, LET'S HEAD FOR THE

BARN. ...COUGAR, WHERE ARE YOU?

17.  EXT. KITTY HAWK FLIGHT DECK - THE LSO

Stands the on plunging deck, peering into the roaring night.

GHOST RIDER ONE-ONE-FIVE, THIS IS

MUSTANG.  WX THREE HUNDRED.  ONE

MILE VISIBILITY WITH HEAVY RAIN.

FINAL INBOUND BEARING THREE-FOUR-

ZERO.  DECK IS MOVING.

18.  INT. COCKPIT 117 - COUGAR

This is crazy. How the hell we

supposed to land on something we

can't even see!

Hey, if it was easy, everybody

would want to come up here and do

it..... Instead of just us.

You.

MUSTANG TO GHOST RIDER 115...110

SPIN, 42 LOCK.  AT 5 MILES READ

YOUR NEEDLES.

19.  INT. COCKPIT 115 - MAVERICK

NEEDLES READ DOWN AND LEFT.

CONCUR, FLY YOUR NEEDLES.

NEEDLES CENTER.

ROGER. CALL THE BALL.

Call the ball?  I don't see the

ship!

20.  INT. COCKPIT 117 - COUGAR'S POV

BLASTS slam the airframe. Rain tattoos the canopy. A gust rolls

the Tomcat, he straightens it, A gust flips it again.

20A.  MAVERICK'S POV

The Carrier lights appear and disappear through the storm.

21.  INT. COCKPIT 117 - COUGAR

A walk in the park, Mustang. You

with me, cat man?...Cougar...you

with me?

Goose is thrown about as the wing dips, straightens, dips.

Help me with this one, I'm really

screwed up.

Bring it left. Bring it left,

You're high.

This is crazy!

What is?

Wait! Hell!..Something's wrong!

What?  What is it?

Were upside down!

You're crazy. We're level.

Can't you feel it? I'm hanging in

my straps!

You're not. We're level. Look at

the instruments, we're okay!

They must be broken. I'm hanging in

my straps! We're inverted!

We're not! Trust me! We're okay.

22.  FLIGHT DECK - LSO CONTROLLING 115 - MAVERICK

A LITTLE POWER...FLY THE BALL.

LOOKING GOOD...HOLD WHAT YOU GOT.

23.  MAVERICK'S F-14 - ON FINAL APPROACH.

24.  INT. COCKPIT - MAVERICK

He hears Cougar's chatter over the air.

WE'RE UPSIDE DOWN! WE CAN'T LAND!

WELL, WE CAN'T STAY UP HERE EITHER.

25.  FLIGHT DECK

Maverick's plane settles in over the ramp, suddenly, BLASTS FROM

IT'S AFTERBURNERS...it ROARS over the deck without touching and

off into the night. The LSO is shocked into comment.

WHERE THE HELL YOU GOING?

26.  MAVERICK'S COCKPIT  - (AERIAL)

I...FORGOT SOMETHING.

What the hell you doing?

Helping him in.

What makes you think we can get

back in?  We don't have the fuel

for this.

Just get me to him.

He's nine o'clock high. We're two

thousand pounds low!

27.  DARK TURBULENT CLOUDS

Maverick's plane pulls up behind Cougar's. Cougar's plane

suddenly flips over, flying inverted.

I'm pulling up.

No! Now we're inverted!

Maverick pulls up off the wing of the inverted aircraft. His

voice is calmness itself.

HEY, ANY OF YOU GUYS SEEN AN

AIRCRAFT CARRIER AROUND HERE?

Cougar looks over, surprised.

WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?

EVERYBODY'S GOT TO BE SOMEWHERE.

..NOW WE'RE RIGHT WITH YOU.

YOU ARE INVERTED.  ROLL IT, COUGAR.

Nothing happens.

COUGAR, THIS IS MAVERICK. HALF ROLL

IT. NOW!

Cougar's plane completes the roll, is now upright.

We're on vapor, Cougar, you got to

put it down.

It's crazy, man. Instruments are

crazy. We're gonna have to eject.

TELL HIM, WILL YOU TELL HIM? OUR

INSTRUMENTS ARE OKAY.

YOU'RE STRAIGHT AND LEVEL, COUGAR.

I'M HANGING IN MY STRAPS. I TURN IT

OVER AND I'M STILL HANGING IN MY

STRAPS. WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON

UP HERE?

YOU'RE NOT IN THE STRAPS.  IT'S

VERTIGO, THAT'S ALL IT IS. STAY ON

MY WING. I'LL DROP YOU OFF.

Maverick pulls up wing tip to wing tip, inches apart.

MAVERICK.

YEAH, COUGAR?

YOU BETTER NOT BE RAGGING ME...

IF YOU'RE FLYING UPSIDE DOWN...

NO JOKE, COUGAR. ON THE LEVEL.

I'M UPSIDE DOWN. I KNOW IT. I'M

GONNA EJECT.

Look at the weather! They'll never

find us! We're near out of fuel.

Put it down.

COUGAR, YOU'RE ON THE BALL.

OKAY... OKAY. BUT IF I LAND THIS

THING UPSIDE DOWN. AND I LIVE. I'LL

HAVE YOUR BUTT!

You'll have mine, Cougar. It'll be

where your head used to be.

28.  EXT. FLIGHT DECK

All eyes are on what they can see of the approach of the two

planes. Maverick drops him off at the pattern and circles. The

LSO watches the approach. The Tomcat drops a wing, straightens,

drops the wing, straightens ... the approach of a pilot

experiencing vertigo as Cougar tries to satisfy his inner ear.

LEVEL...YOUR WINGS... EASY...

YOU'RE SETTLING....FLY THE BALL.

A wind shear just off the ramp drives the plane suddenly down.

POWER...POWER!..POWER!...WAVE OFF!

WAVE OFF  WAVE OFF!

AFTERBURNERS BLAST, but the Tomcat horrifyingly settles tail-low

toward the deck. The deck crew watches in terror as the plane

wallows in toward them. The LSO'S turn, take a few steps and

throw themselves off the flight deck.

They sail into the night toward the surging seas a hundred feet

below, then are caught in safety nets hung off the side.

28A.  THE PLANE

Settles, settles, standing on it's engines, trying to arrest

it's downward momentum. The hook raises sparks as it skids across

the deck... The plane stops falling and hangs for a moment, about

to blast back up, when the hook catches the last wire.. The wire

snags it, plucking 45,000 pounds of fuel, metal and men out of

the air and slamming it all to the deck. WHAMMMM! Right wheel

flies up the deck and over the side...the gear collapses. The

plane SCREECHES sideways. The crew watches helplessly as it skids

slams into it and comes to rest in cloud of fuel vapor and steam.

The LSO runs up, shouting into the mike.

COUGAR, GOOSE...COME IN COUGAR!

SHUT YOUR ENGINES DOWN, YOU'VE

ARRIVED.

GHOST RIDER! ACKNOWLEDGE!

GHOST RIDER! ACKNOWLEDGE!

Crash crew leaps into action. The fire crew is there. The man in

the Silver Suit jumps up on the wing and crawls to the cockpit.

The figures inside are not moving. He hits the canopy release.

The canopy pops open. Silver suit grabs at the rear seat harness

release. He screams through his suit's aluminized cloth...

Goose, can you hear me?  Goose!

Nothing for a moment. He's dead! Then the RIO'S helmet

moves...His head turns. He tears the mask away from his face,

looks up at Silver Suit. His head clears.

Oh, Hello... Valet parking?

Silver suit is stunned for a moment. He straightens up, his head

inclines quizzically. Then it hits him.

Son of a bitch!

You will put it up front,

with the Porsches?

He grabs him under the armpits, drags him out of the plane.

Hey...easy...Take it easy...

I'm a veteran!

Goose grabs a passing crewman by the arm.

Can you check under the hood. I

thought I heard a funny noise.

Other crewmembers help Cougar out. He seems stunned, but Goose

reacts to his fear with frantic one-liners. He grabs a crew

member's radio, as Silver Suit helps him away and looks to the

figures of the Admiral and the Air Boss far up on the bridge...

He waves to them, does his best impression...Desi Arnaz.

Lucy...Ricky...I'n Home!

28B.  BRIDGE FLIGHT DECK

A moment of disbelief... Then hysterical, tension relieving

laughter.

28C.  FLIGHT DECK

Goose spots Cougar being helped out. He pulls away, reaches back

into the cockpit and grabs Cougar's snapshot of wife and kid.

They lead Goose away as firemen blast the aircraft with foam.

Is it extra for the hot wax?

28D.  BRIDGE  - FLIGHT DECK - AIR BOSS

Clear the flight deck.

29.  FLIGHT DECK

A TILLIE, a four wheel mobile crane, slams up to the plane and

slings its lifting harness. Goose turns to Silver Suit.

Well...there goes your tip.

30.  INT. MAVERICK'S PLANE

They have monitored the chatter.

It's Goose. He's alright. Bring it

left...You're settling.  IS THE

DECK CLEAR?

ROGER, BALL, LITTLE POWER...DON'T

CLIMB...OKAY, HOLD WHAT YOU GOT!

Wizard does a quick sign of the cross, reaches down, grabs his

balls...as...

30A.  FLIGHT DECK

The TOMCAT slams onto the deck, clearing the wreckage by inches.

31.  INT. CARRIER HATCHWAY - FLIGHT SURGEON, OTHERS

Watch as they bring a shaken Cougar past. Goose, eyes wild,

waves at Maverick and Wizard, rolling up. They flame out -

VVOOOMMMMM! They sit there, immobile, waiting for a tow, looking

numb.  Goose does his "stewardess".

On behalf of your Captain and your

crew, I want to thank you for

flying VF101. And next time your

plans include the middle of the

goddamn ocean in the dead of

frigging night, I hope you'll think

of Naval Aviation.

The surgeon looks into Goose's eyes.

Stress reaction...

Check his head.

Never mind my head, check my

shorts!

32.  SICK BAY - LATER

Cougar lies alone in the dimness, staring at the overhead.

33. 03 LEVEL - BELOW DECKS - OFFICER'S COUNTRY

The usual CLANGS, WHISTLES, ENGINES of Navy life sound FORLORN

ECHOING through the dim, deserted passage. From the distance, a

single figure passes in and out of the glow of the overhead

lights. Cougar comes closer, hobbling unsteadily.

He reaches a door, pulls himself erect and knocks on the sign:

Commander Tom Otawoczek

CO VF 101

STINGER

34.  STINGER'S CABIN

The skipper works at his desk, responds without looking up.

Come in.

He looks up. Cougar stands in the doorway, a strange, dazed look

on his face.

Cougar, what is it? You should be

in sick bay. What are you doing?

He walks over to the skipper's desk. His eyes are glazed, but

his jaw is firm.

Thinking of my wife and kid.

A determined movement. Hand to chest.

34A. OMITTED

Something metal hits it, skids across the polished surface and

clangs up against the coffee mug: gold wings.

35.  PASSAGEWAY

Cougar comes out of Stinger's room, bumps into Goose, and

Maverick. He turns the other way.

Cougar!

He stops, turns to them. There is nothing to say. Goose hands

him his snapshot. Cougar looks at his wife and kid for a moment,

then looks up at them. He turns away.

Cougar?		STINGER (O.S.)

Maverick, Goose...Come in here.

36.  STINGER'S OFFICE - DOORWAY

Maverick appears, followed by Goose. They stand at

attention.

Sir?

The Skipper says nothing. Maverick sees the wings on the

desk. He enters, walks over, stares down at them. He picks

them up.

Don't worry. I'll talk to him.

Don't.

He's a good pilot.

I talked a man back once. Three

months later, we lost him. It's his

decision. Only he knows.

He's the best you have. He's going

Top Gun!

Was.

What?

Was going. (Turns to Maverick.) Now

you are.

Me?

Maverick stares at the wings, lost in conflicting emotions.

Well, he's going (indicating Goose)

and he needs someone to fly the

plane.

Skipper, you can't do this!

I didn't do it, he did it himself.

Something about a wife and kid. The

fact is, he's lost it. He knows it.

I know it. You were up there, you

know it, too.

Give him a break, Skipper. It was

raining snakes up there. He'll be

alright, soon as all the gorillas go

home...

The Skipper stares at Goose, non-plussed for a moment.

I know some RIOS are a little

wiggy...but you abuse the

priviledge! I don't believe I'm

going to have to put the two of you

in the same cockpit...but there it

is! It may be good for the Navy. It

might be good for you, but most of

all, it's good for me. It'll get

you out of my sight.

But, Skipper, Cougar's been picked

for Top Gun...He's the best of the

best!

Well, you'll just have to make do

with him (indicates Maverick).

Goose and Maverick exchange looks.

Mav's a great flyer but....

He's a hell of a flyer. In fact,

he's so damn good he might have

been picked for Top Gun himself.

Except for one thing. (SCREAMS) He

just can't seem to follow orders!

Stinger moves slightly, to stand now, directly in front of

Maverick and speak eye to eye at four inches.

You just did an incredibly brave thing!

What you should have done was land your

plane. You don't own that plane, the

taxpayers do. I should ream you out for

it. But it just doesn't work with you.

You're a hell of a flyer. You are maybe

...too good. You never really stepped in

it yet. So this is your chance. I'm

gonna send you up against the best. They

are better than you. Maybe they'll knock

that shine off your eagle and you'll

see, finally, where discipline and

teamwork fit it.

Maverick hasn't really heard anything but TOPGUN. He snaps out

of it.

Sir?

That is all. Tell me about the MiG

some other time...

Yes sir!

He snaps off a salute and does an about face.

Maverick..

He turns back.

Yes sir..

The wings..

He looks down at the wings in his hands, slowing walks over

places them gently on the Skipper's desk.

Gentlemen!

Sir?

His facade cracks just slightly.

Good luck.

37.  INT. PASSAGEWAY

Maverick and Goose push through a gauntlet of aircrews. They

have become notorious. Guys grab at them...questions...the

MiGs?..What happened up there? How close did they get? What did

the MiGs do? One word is heard over and over..."TopGun". Goose is

left behind in the crowd. Maverick pushes through. He walks

fast...faster. Up ladders, around turns, down ladders, through

passageways. Faster. He breaks into a trot, then a canter,

squeezing past enlisted men, parts lockers, then he breaks into a

run...

38.  EXT - CARRIER - NIGHT AND STORM

A hatch slams open on the side of the Carrier. He's out on a

catwalk, instantly soaked, running on rain slicked stairs

cantilevered high over the breaking seas. He plunges forward to

the bow of the ship, stands on the very peak. He is yelling

something. He stands there as the bow plunges terrifyingly into

the trough. The water rises like a green mountain, up, up to

break just a few feet below him, showering him with spray. The

noise is incredible.

Come around on his face. It is maddened. He raises his fist and

punches the night.

The foaming slope of the wave rushes up, changing color as it

DISSOLVES TO:

Desert Sand whipping by...

39.  MOJAVE DESERT - 1 WEEK LATER

A big bike, a real big bike, a turbo...rockets across the

desert. Fast. Real fast. Aviator shades low above the handlebars

--Maverick. Goose hangs on in back. It cranks faster, pulls

closer...ENGINE SCREAMING. It cranks up a notch, it's going to

explode. It can't go faster, but it does. It SCREAMS HIGHER. It

ROARS under, by and away, leaving dust...

39A.  THE BIKE - STILL

Silence. Just the HISS AND POP OF METAL COOLING. Maverick sits

on it, staring out past us. Goose looks over Maverick's shoulder.

We see why. Feet come into the frame. Then the uniform:

California Highway Patrol.

40.  COUNTRY ROAD - NEAR SAN DIEGO

40A.  ANGLE ON MAVERICK. CHP enters the frame, the usual

hypercivil arrogance tinged with awed disbelief. The usual

questions are spaced for effect as if he might be talking to some

other form of life. Maverick is off the bike, standing at

attention. Goose follows more slowly.

Son. Do you know why

I stopped you?

Maverick has some good idea how to deal with authority.

Yes sir. I do sir

The CHP adjusts his own aviator shades.

Well... What   is   it?

Sir. You are going to give me a

warning, Sir!

CHP - A touch of a smile, quickly surpressed.

License and registration.

Maverick hands them over with his Navy ID. CHP scans them,

hesitates a moment over the last, looks up with a touch more

respect.

Lieutenant, do you know how fast

you were going?

Yes sir. I do, Sir.

Well?

Sir. I was going Mach point one

five.

CHP nods sagely.

One SIXTH the speed of sound!

Yes sir.

Lieutenant... What do you...

usually fly?

F-14's sir.

Tomcats?

Yes sir!

A long pause. Respect in the cop's eyes. He taps the Navy ID on

the handlebars...staring at this sincere young man.

Lieutenant... Is there...

a Russian attack?

No sir! But you have to be ready.

The cop nods and stares at him.

41.  EXT. MIRAMAR NAVAL AIR STATION - LATER

41A.  OMIT

The bike is BLURPING... barely going fast enough to stay

upright. Maverick cool in shades and campaign cap dorks past the

hanger with the sign: FIGHTERTOWN, USA. He pulls ahead. In back

of him, escorting with flashers...the CHP. They pull up at the

gate. Maverick and Goose salute the guard, hands over their ID.

The CHP gets out of his car, leans against the door.

Lieutenant.

Maverick turns to him.

Yes, Sergeant?

Remember one thing.

Sir?

Outside of this gate...

I...am Top Gun.

Yes sir!

He salutes. The CHP returns a snappy one. He gets back in his

car and turns away. Maverick receives his ID and clearance. As he

passes through, a couple of pilots in flight suits (ICE AND

HOLLYWOOD) stare at him. The taller, dark, cool one speaks in a

dry voice, meant to be overheard.

Uh oh, police escort. This one must

be a real killer.

The second pilot grins big at them. Maverick turns slightly

stares over his shades at them as he passes. Goose grins back the

challenge.

42.  AERIAL COMBAT - VIETNAM ERA - F4'S, MIG 17'S - STOCK

The Doors on the soundtrack.  Jets swoop, missiles fire, a plane

explodes. Gun camera views of MiGs, SAMS, flak, bombing runs...

During the Korean War, the Navy kill

ratio was twelve-to-one. We shot down

twelve of their jets for every one of

ours. In Vietnam, this ratio fell to

three-to-one. Our pilots depended on

missles. They lost their dogfighting

skills.

F-14's fighting with F-5's. Music becomes current.

Top Gun was created to teach ACM. Air

Combat Maneuvering...Dogfighting.

Richthofen, Guynemer, Rickenbacker,

Galland, Rudel, Bong would envy us. We

do just what they did, but we do it

beyond the speed of sound.

43.  INT. DAY - TOP GUN ORIENTATION ROOM.

VIPER - A tough-looking, confident leader in a blue flight suit,

stands before a video-tape monitor. Behind him, on the monitor,

the dogfighting continues.

By the end of Vietnam we upped our

kill ratio to thirteen to one.

He turns on the lights. We see his audience in F.G.

You're here 'cause you're the top

one per cent of all naval aviators.

THE CLASS

Sixteen young men - eight flight crews - sit at attention. They

are trim, fit and confident - high school heroes, college jocks.

You're the elite, the best of the

best. We're gonna make you better,

because you're job is damned

important.

ANOTHER ANGLE - THE MEN

The camera moves among them. Hold on one of the men; the one who

greeted Maverick at the gate, Ice.

With the tensions in the world today, the potential for confron-

tation is greater than ever, and

carrier pilots will be the first

ones there. Air combat excellence

is vital.

Ice is not looking at the speaker, but, rather, in our

direction. HOLLYWOOD, a blond, good-looking pilot, whispers

something to him, and gestures. Ice is getting the lowdown on

someone. The camera moves and we see who that someone is, as

Maverick enters the frame.

training men for air combat made

the world less safe--flying loaded

guns... an accidental confrontation

and so forth...

Maverick feels the stare of the other man and glances in his

direction. Their eyes meet. Ice smiles coldly.

ANGLE - VIPER

My answer is: the dangerous thing

is being unprepared. You want

trouble, that's what you get when

things don't work out, when you

can't do what you say you can. When

you don't know what you can do. And

when your opponents aren't sure

either. We are not policy. We don't

make policy. Elected officials

...civilians, do that. We are the

instrument of policy. The tip of

the spear. So we had best be sharp.

Maverick has turned to look at Ice. Ice glances back in his

direction. Maverick looks at the back of the room where guys in

blue flight suits stand. They are the instructors. They look

relaxed, poised, mean.  Goose is looking up front...Where Viper

has stopped. Goose nudges Maverick.

What are you doing?

Nothing...That's McGown...that's

Singer, isn't it?

Turn around, pay attention. What

are you doing?

...Just wondering...(turns back)

...who is the best.

He's shocked to find Viper staring right at him, with a killer

grin on his face. He's feels caught like a naughty schoolboy.

Really...    (smiles)

Ya know. We'd like to know who's

best too. That's why we've got that

plaque on the wall... with the Top

Top Gun crew from each class. You

think maybe your name's gonna be on

it?

Maverick knows he's in trouble, considers the social

alternatives, then tells him the truth.

Yes sir.

A couple of ooo's and aahh's from the guys. The instructors

stare the challenge at him. He slides lower in his seat.

Considering the company you're in,

that's a pretty arrogant attitude.

Yes sir.

I like that in a fighter pilot.

(couple of laughs from the guys)

It's okay to be confident. You have

to think you're King Kong to want

to try to land on carriers. Just

keep in mind the other component of

success...teamwork.

Viper gathers his notes, the lecture is over.

Yes sir.

Viper turns back for one more thought.

Gentlemen, this is about combat.

Remember, there are no points for

second place. Dismissed.

Viper walks out. Maverick finds Goose looking at him,

quizzically. Others mill around the plaque.  A big, friendly bear

of a RIO speaks.

A plaque?

It's not the plaque. The winner can

get assigned here as instructor. He

gets to fight every day.

They move closer to examine the names on the plaque.

44.  EXT. "O" CLUB - NIGHT.

Fast cars in the driveway, fast music blares into the

night. It's Wednesday; Animal Night. Maverick, Goose

Hollywood and Wolfman walk to the entrance.

45.  INT. WOXOF BAR

Loud music, low ceiling, plaques of the squadrons line the

walls. A dancer gyrates on stage, largely ignored by pilots

talking with their hands. Every pretty girl in San Diego

seems to be here. It's a noisy, rowdy place--a "steam

releaser" for people under pressure. Nevertheless, there is

a control to it all, there are none of the usual bar types,

just pilots and Naval Officers.

The Ghost Riders enter. The place is on fire:  a mob of

dancers, flashing lights, blaring HARD ROCK MUSIC. Beer

flows. Pilots talk flying and hustle girls.

NEARBY - AN A7 pilot stands by the bar. He knows Goose and

speaks loudly for his benefit..

You know the Fighter Pilots motto?

It's better to be dead than to look

bad.

They grin broadly. Goose replies as they brush past.

I don't know, Frank, anybody gets

off on bombing the shit out of dirt

has got to be queer.

Goose exchanges friendly punches with the attack pilots.

Maverick's introductions and friendly barbs are drowned by the

music. Maverick is a bit reserved. He doesn't move among the

crowd as naturally as Goose does. Hollywood and Wolfman drift

away, searching for quarry. Goose orders beer. He nods toward a

TALL YOUNG MAN across the room.

Keller, Black Lion Squadron. I knew

him at Pensacola. He's damn good.

Is there anybody in the Navy you

don't know?

Gotta keep track of the

competition.

Goose suddenly reaches out and grabs a guy moving past.

Slider -- they let you into Top

Gun? If you're among the best in

the Navy, I tremble for the

security of this country.

Why Goose, whose butt did you kiss

to get here?

The list is long, but

distinguished.

So's my Johnson.

This is Maverick.

Smiles good-naturedly, shakes hands with Mav.

So I've heard.

Who's your pilot?

Tom Kazansky.

No shit. The Iceman....

Mister to you.

You think you can stay up with us.

I think, yeah, we'll show you a

thing or two.

This is Evan Mitchell, he steers

the thing.

So I heard. Steers it pretty close.

Sorry to hear about Cougar. He was

a good man.

Still is..

Yeah. That's what I meant.

Suddenly, behind them, a flame shoots up. Someone ducks his head

and swallows it. The pilot sets an empty glass on the bar.

What was that?

Flaming Hooker. Sort of an

institution around here. Or maybe

this is the institution, I forget

which. It's the house drink. It'll

warm the cockles of your heart ...

and other things depending on where

you spill it.

He motions to the barmaid and she moves over, sets them up.

GOOSE holds a demitasse glass. The barmaid pours Drambuie. They

look at Goose apprehensively. Goose looks at nearby flyers in

Camo fatigues.

You can't show fear in front of

Marines...They're like Doberman's

they'll go for your throat, it's

instinctive.

He takes out match and lights it. Maverick holds his arm.

You ever done this before?

What, been drunk? Sure! Plenty!

He downs it all in one gulp, slaps the glass on the bar, still

aflame. He stands there, blinking.

How was it?

Could use a dash more jet fuel.

The others are duly impressed. Maverick's gaze falls on Ice

watching from the end of the bar - Slider takes one, Maverick

takes one too, downs it in a gulp. Sundown, taking up the

challenge, motions for one. The barmaid pours it.

Careful, don't make an ash of

yourself...

He tries to drink the flaming concoction. He tries to go for a

sip, but it's too close to his face, he tries to tilt the flame

away, but that doesn't work. Finally he goes for the gulp. He

burns his lip and misses.  He sets his hair on fire. It goes up

in a WHOOOSH!!

Yeow!

Mayday! Down in flames!

He throws a beer in Sundown's face, quenching the fire. Sundown

blinks through the beer.

Thanks, I needed that.

You guys are not only crazy, you're

dangerous!

Ice comes up from the end of the bar. He motions the Barmaid for

another; it comes. Goose lights it. He gulps it down, cool as

hell.

Frat boys.

He walks away. Slider goes after him.

Who is that guy?

That's Kazanski.

No shit! That why they call him Ice?

Nope. It's the way he flies - Ice cold.

No mistakes. Wears you down. After

enough time, you just get bored and

frustrated, you do something stupid, and

he's got you.

Maverick moves in Ice's direction. He passes Wolfman dancing

with a girl with bright purple fingernails.

ANGLE - DANCEFLOOR.

Why do you all have such funny

names?

You gotta have a call sign that's

just your own...never changes...you

have to recognize it immediately.

Then, if someone shouts "Wolf,

break left!"..you react right away.

Why do they call you Wolf?

Oh, I don't know.

Goose comes up with his arm around a girl.

Hey Mav, this is Sally. She doesn't

believe a word I say. Tell her I'm

married, will you?

Yeah, he's married--but then again,

he,s not dead.

Sally laughs and tries to pull Goose back toward the dance

floor. Something in Maverick's eyes makes him hang back with his

partner.

ANGLE - THE DANCE FLOOR - DANCERS

Could I get a call sign?

Well, I don't know. That depends.

On what?

Well, it doesn't just happen, you

gotta do something famous.

Like what?

Oh...I'll think of something.

Maverick smiles at this, but seems on edge... He watches a few

pretty girls enter and eye the pilots in their flight suits, then

turns and walks up to Ice, who sits, drinking with Slider.

Maverick walks over to him. Ice notices Slider's attention going

to Maverick. He turns and grins at him.

Figured it out yet?

Figured out what?

Who is the best.

Nope.

Need a hint?

I think I can work it out on my

own.

You like to work alone. I've heard

that about you.

I've heard of you, too. You were in

124 with Bargamian.

And you were with Cougar. He was my

roommate in flight school.

He's a good man.

The best.

You must have soloed under a lucky

star. First the MiG, then you slide

into Cougar's place.

It's not Cougar's place. It's ours.

What do you think it was? Was it

that MiG contact that did it?

Did what?

Got you here.

We're here because we're the best

flyers in the wing. Not because of

some MiG encounter.

What luck! Guys fly their whole

career without seeing a MiG up

close...You're famous.

You mean notorious.

Something in the way he says it. It's not quite a joke, more an

insult. Maverick's about to take the whole conversation too far

when something...someone catches his eye. She catches quite a few

eyes in this room. She is very pretty and she's walking in on the

arm of a Commander. Maverick turns back, but the moment has

passed. Ice dismisses him with a nod and weak smile. Goose pulls

him away.

What do these guys think, I made

Cougar quit?

Pay no attention to it. They're

just trying to rattle you. It's all

psychological. Sit down..and drink.

He deposits Maverick at a chair by a table where other pilots

cluster watching and listening to Bugs shoot down his wristwatch.

Maverick broods...

We were just really diving down and by

then we were right over downtown

Haiphong.  It was some great shit. Jack

says, "What are you doing?" "What, what

am I doing, Jack?" He says, "What are

you doing?" I said, "I'm rolling in,

Jack." "Bugs, we're at thirty-two

hundred feet. Oh shit, we were like

zooom... So we scraped down at hundred

feet right over--downtown Hanoi!  Oh

shit, goddamn it! And blowing down the

river. And so once we were there we let

down to about fifty feet just going down

the river and Jack says... "Bugs...

don't ever do that again!" "Okay, right,

Jack, I'll never do that again!"

Maverick pays little or no attention. He broods and drinks.

Suddenly, Hollywood nudges him, he turns.

What, what is it?

Target passing. Check your six.

Never mind mine. Check hers.

They turn. Long legs, great ass, beautiful.

Her six is a ten! Uh oh, a turn to

engage.

HIS POV - ACROSS A CROWDED ROOM

Maverick sees a stranger, and somehow he knows, he knows even

then.  Wolfman turns, sees her walking too.

Bogey...9 o'clock level.

Nine thirty. Bogey?  You presume

that hostile?

Well, we should contact and check

it out.

She has turned toward them. She passes by. They start to make a

move for her. But just then she finds her date at the bar; a

distinguished man with Captain's stripes. Their smiles freeze and

they slide back in their chairs. Maverick can't stop looking at

her...After a while, the intensity of his gaze draws her

attention. She feels him. She is nodding and smiling to her date,

but her eyes scan the room like radar. A warning tone goes off in

his brain dolu dolu dolu as they lock on him. He feels that

thrill of excitement and fear you get when you know you're

targeted in someone's scope. Her eyes hold on him for a long

moment...long enough, and then sweep by the rest of the room. She

turns her attention back to the Captain and laughs at something

he says.

Over in a corner, Goose chats up a couple of San Diego girls.

The family unit -- that's the most

important thing. It's the only

thing you can count on. I'm married

--did I tell you that?

Four times. We don't believe you.

I've been married since I was

eighteen. Why don't you believe me?

Because you don't look married.

You're not even wearing a ring.

I take it off when I'm chasing

women. It's the only honorable

thing to do.

ANGLE - MAVERICK

He's half listening to Bugs rattle on.  His eyes are drawn back

to the woman. He tries not to stare. She seems to know a lot of

people in the club. He looks away. Hollywood is chatting up a

girl with a sincerity that cannot be taught. His line is just as

polished as his appearance.

You don't think about death up

there, but you think a lot about

the danger. One mistake and you're

a smoking hole in the ground.

I never knew it was so dangerous.

Oh yeah, it makes everything down

here more meaningful. You feel a

certain intensity of life, and you

want to grab onto every moment.

Maverick looks up at the bar again. A shock. She (Charlie) is

staring right at him, intensely, as her date whispers something

in her ear. She notices him, staring back, quickly looks away,

embarrassed. She says something to the man. He nods and turns

away as someone else grabs his attention. The woman, now wouldn't

look this way for anything. She picks up her purse from the bar

and walks through the crowd and out of the room. Impulsively,

Maverick's up, he follows.

46.  INT. HALLWAY - OUTSIDE THE BAR

He breaks out, looks around, doesn't see her. Someone disappears

around a corner. He moves after.

CORNER - A door slams shut. Impulsively, before he realizes what

he is doing, he's through it.

47.  WOMEN'S ROOM.

A feminine GASP!  He should have looked at the sign on the door.

The realization of where he is hits him too late. She is standing

by the mirror, with her make-up out, looking back at him. He's

not quite sure what to do. A hasty retreat would be appropriate,

if embarrassing. Ah, what the hell, he is a fighter pilot!  He

just walks right over to her...no idea what he will say. She's

got her lipstick out, twisting it. She looks over at him with an

amused smile.

Long cruise, was it?

She leans over the sink, puts on lipstick, sees his eyes cover

her.

Anything I can do to help, Lieutenant?

Lots of things.

She laughs. He is sort of attractive, but there are other girls

in the room, she doesn't want to be too encouraging...She tries

not to grin at his embarrassment.

I'll bet!

Uhhh...Anything I can do for you?

She laughs again, doesn't know what it is...could be chemical,

but she's instinctively attracted.

Yeah. Hold this. It might be safer.

She hands him a makeup mirror. Starts redoing her lipstick. He

just stares at her...She looks up at him, than back to her

warpaint. Finally, when it comes, it is cool and amused.

Now I know why all the girls come

here. They know how horny you guys

get. But this...is ridiculous.

It's not that.

Mock anger. She's toying with him.

It isn't?

Well, it is. It is that, too.

That's a big comfort to me.

I could be, too.

How so?

Save you from a big mistake with

that other guy.

And on to a bigger one with you?

Yeah, most likely.

Was there ever a girl who didn't

like fighter pilots?

I heard of one once.

She laughs again, shakes her head...another cowboy! She gently

takes the compact out of his hands, snaps it closed.

I'm really flattered, Lieutenant,

but I don't go out with pilots.

Then what are you doing here?

Three pretty blondes enter and look at Maverick quizzically but

not without interest.

I think the question is...what are

you?

She tries to keep a straight face as she walks out of the room.

The other girls look at him expectantly.  A beat.  He just

stands there, then realizes he's holding her lipstick.

Hi. I'm here to talk about a new

concept in cosmetics...

47A.  WOXOF BAR. She returns, spots the Captain, motioning to

her.  Maverick enters, goes to the other end of the bar. He

orders a drink. It comes. He drinks it, pays for it, moves off

toward the door. Someone backs into his path, he moves quickly

and bumps into someone else; her.

Sorry.

She sees it's him.

My fault. Should have watched

where I was going.

Her hand goes to his collar. She adjusts his insignia. She

smiles.

Where's your wing man? Who's

watching your six?

Uh, nobody, I guess.

One final adjustment.

Too bad.

She breaks the spell abruptly, turns away.

See you around.

Maverick finds his voice.

Can I walk you out?She turns back to him, a smile.

I'm with someone.

48.  EXT. "O" CLUB - LATER THAT NIGHT

P.O.V. -

From a car in the parking lot, we see Charlie and the Captain

leave the club. They walk directly toward us and stop. She turns,

says something polite...a peck on the cheek. He turns away. A

dome light briefly illuminates the interior of the car as a door

opens. It rocks slightly as someone gets in. Charlie turns back

and walks over, taking her keys out. She opens the door to the

car and gets in.

48A.  EXT. CAR - NIGHT

She starts the car and pulls away. Suddenly, a figure sits up in

the back.

I thought he'd never leave.

Yeow!

Startled, she nearly drives off the road. She turns to him,

startled.

You! What are you doing here?

Everybody's got to be somewhere.

What if Captain Dawson had come

with me?

It would have been really

embarrassing!

How did you know this was my car?

Simple deduction. It's fast. It's

pretty. Sleek and stylish...It's

your color...matches your lipstick.

That's all!

And I asked someone.

You think you're pretty smart.

I think I'm in love.

49.  EXT. GUARD GATE

She pulls up at the guard gate, a MARINE CORPORAL is on duty. He

sees the pretty girl pull up and stop, leans over helpfully.

Can I help you, Ma'am?

She smiles even more sweetly.

I don't know, Corporal. Can you do

anything about this lunatic?

The car door swings open. Maverick gets out. The car roars away.

He stands in the glare of the spotlight...rocking on his heels,

looking across at the guard, who snaps to attention and stares

holes in his chest.

50.  INT. TOP GUN - NEXT MORNING.

Two guys in flight suits run down stairs past stencils of MiG

kills on walls, then down corridor.

Not so fast...my head.

They skid to stop outside a door.

51.  INT. HANGAR

Ground crews work on planes in B.G. Jester in middle of lecture.

Door bursts open. Sundown and Flex skid to a halt when they see

whole class looking at them.

Who are you?

I'm Sundown.

Yeah, right. You're late.

Viper breaks in, indicating Flex.

And who are you?

Flex

Flex...? You don't look like Flex

to me. You call that muscle?

Doesn't look like muscle. Looks

like...Pork.

They laugh. Even Sundown has to laugh, scratching his chest.

What're you laughing at? You're

Fungus.

Stops scratching.

Fungus!

Don't make an issue of it, it'll

stick.

It'll stick anyway.

Viper turns away...

Now to continue. In this class we

will be dealing with F-5's and

A4's, as our MiG simulators.

Technically the F-5 does not have

the thrust to weight ratio of the

MiG-21--it also does not bleed

energy below 300 knots like the

MiG-21 does. The A4 does not turn

as well as the MiG-17 but has

significantly better visibility.

Maverick looks back to his notes. SFX footsteps...door

opening. Viper looks up to back of room door.

Hi, Charlie. Good, our TAGREF's

here. Charlie's the most qualified

to get into P subs and curves, and

VN diagrams.

Maverick turns to see the TAGREF walk forward.  Maverick

stares at her as she passes without acknowledging him. He is

surprised, embarrassed.

Charlotte Blackwood--code name Charlie--

not your ordinary TAGREF. Charlie has

her Ph.D. in astrophysics--she's a

civilian contractor so you don't salute

her...or anything else. Is that clear?

She walks to the front and starts her presentation. She

talks about something very technical, arcane. MiG tactics,

technology. As the briefing rattles on, Maverick reacts to

her. Goose glances over at him. He, too, recognizes the girl.

He looks at his partner. Maverick feels his stare.

Hello, I think I have some new data for

you...Now a MiG 21 has a problem with

the inverted flight tanks. It won't do a

Negative G push over. Even below one G,

they risk a flame out. Operationally,

they will do a zero to one G only.

A snicker from the audience. She hesitates momentarily, goes

on.

The latest intelligence shows that

the most they will do in operation

is one....is there something wrong,

Lieutenant.

I don't think you're altogether

right...about the MiG, that is.

She stops--some of the pilots look at him. Viper glares.

I beg your pardon.

No, I beg yours. But I don't think

you're right on that.

Why not?

I saw one.

You saw a MiG 21?

I saw a MiG do a 4 G negative dive.

Where did you see that?

It's classified.

Nervous buzz in the room. Viper goes rigid. Charlie can't

believe it.

It's what?

It's classified. Like Hollywood

says, I could tell you, but then

I'd have to kill you.

Pork stifles a laugh, the others chuckle. Viper is

embarrassed.

Maverick!!!

She stops Viper with a glance.

It's all right.

She can handle it. She is very cool, not overbearing. She

says it calmly. She doesn't want to embarrass him any more

than he is, but she has to get the facts straight.

clearance. The Pentagon sees to it

that I know more than you.

Not in this case.

You saw a MiG push negative 4G?

Yes, ma'am.

Where were you?

On his six.

Little stifled laughs.

He was in a 4G Negative dive and

you were on his six?

Yes, ma'am, At first. Then I was

directly above him.

She stares at him for a moment, then she has him. She goes

for the kill.

If you were directly above him, how

did you see him?

I was inverted.

A real buzz in the room.  Ice laughs audibly.

You were in a 4G inverted dive with

a MiG 21?   (She can't believe it.)

At what range ?

Two.

Two miles.

Two meters.

Chuckles, barely suppressed. Goose pipes up to deflect

attention.

One and a half, actually. I got a

polaroid.

Lieutenant...

Ma'am?

What were you doing there?

Giving him the bird.

Open laughter. She thinks it's at her. She grows red.

The what?

You know. The finger.

He shows her, but she can handle this.

So you're the reason those

SALT talks failed.

The room breaks into laughter. At him. Now he grows red.

Goose puts his hand on Maverick's arm, shakes his head as if

to say: "Let it go, pal, she got you".

She looks at Viper. He doesn't know whether to laugh or cry.

He knows there's something here he doesn't control.

Lieutenant!

It's just like he says, sir.

I don't care!

51A. CORRIDOR - OUTSIDE LECTURE HALL

She walks away. He runs up and stops her.

Why didn't you tell me you were a

TAGREF?

She studies him coolly for a moment, like a specimen.

It never came up.

You let me make a fool of myself.

You seemed determined to do that

anyway.. Why didn't you tell me you

were a famous MiG insulter?

Would it have made a difference?

No.

What would?

You know, I'm assigned to this

school. I see sixteen new hotshots

every eight weeks. Your attention

is flattering, but not really

productive. Why don't you keep your

mind on flying.

She reaches over and aligns his collar insignia.

Why can't you keep this straight?

She smiles at him and walks away. Maverick turns, sees the

others sizing him up. Most of them grin. Maverick moves down

the corridor past the CO's Office. Viper leans against the

doorsill. He lights a pipe, laconically eyes Maverick. His

tone gives away nothing, like an ELINT probe eliciting a

response.

Maverick... Where'd you get that

call sign?

Ahhh... Runs in the family, sir.

You're father was Marvin Mitchell..

Yes sir.

A good man. Good flyer.

Viper turns away.

Yes sir. Thank you sir.

Maverick watches him for a beat, he's been tested, but he's

not sure how or why. He turns to catch up with Goose and the

others.

EXT. SKY - LATER

At twenty-eight thousand feet, the two planes circle each

other, going in opposite directions. As they jockey for

position, they snap past each other like ends of bullwhips.

The earth spins, the horizon appears and disappears. With

each hard turn, Maverick and Goose can be heard "grunting" to

keep blood in their brains, to keep from passing out.

The fight is hard, physical, and exhausting. The extreme G

forces--6.5--flatten them against their seats, causing their

heads to weigh over one hundred pounds. Maverick strains to

turn his head and track the other jet as it streaks past at

Mach One.

I've lost him -- where is he?

On your six -- coming hard. Four

hundred. Losing airspeed! He's on

your six and closing fast!

Hard left! HARD LEFT!

Maverick jerks the stick left, and the F-14 takes an

astonishing turn. Jester ROARS past into a wide arc.

Great move. Great

He should've had me.

Take it down. Let's bug out of

here. Call for a draw.

No way. I'll nail him this time.

Going vertical.

THE PLANE EXPLODES INTO AFTERBURNER - rocketing toward

space. Jester is left in direct line with the sun, and his

canopy is sprayed with a blinding glare. Going ballistic is

dangerous. The plane flys like a bullet, obeying the laws of

physics, not the pilot's touch on control surfaces. The

ballistic call warns other aircraft that he is, for the

moment, out of control.

He's blind -- you got him!

NO JOY! NO JOY! WHERE ARE YOU?

I'VE LOST SIGHT.

He's out of energy! You got

control? Unload!

The F-14 peels over the egg, in a backward dive. It rockets

down the outside, gaining energy. Over the ROAR of jets, the

SCREAM of the wind, Goose shouts data, but it is muffled, a

distant voice in a typhoon. Through the canopy, we see

Jester, and he hangs in the air like a sparrow in the path of

a falcon.

PILOT'S POV - HUD in windscreen - a diamond in a box.

Maverick lines up the diamond with Jester, and we hear the

high pitched tone BEEPING.

WE'RE BELOW THE HARD DECK. FIGHT'S

OFF.

He's right. We're at ten thousand.

No way. I got you, sucker. You're

going down.

Jester maneuvers, but Maverick keeps him in the gunsight.

The BEEPING is louder, faster.

In the envelope. FOX TWO MISSILE

SHOT. YOU'RE GONE, JESTER, DEAD!

Goddamn! We beat him!

There is an edge of anger in Jester's voice.

ROGER FOX TWO. GET YOUR BUTTS ABOVE

THE HARD DECK. RETURN TO BASE

IMMEDIATELY.

They are brought up short for a moment, then the thrill of

victory gets the best of them. Goose lets out a war whoop.

The F-14 sweeps up, rolls into an Immelman..

We did it!

Look, Ma, top of the world!

52A.  EXT. MIRAMAR - LANDING PATTERN.

Maverick's Tomcat breaks hard and high, rolls over on its

side, wings perpendicular to the ground. Goose sees the world

go sideways.

Ahhh...A little high on the left,

don't you think?

Right.

He aileron rolls another quarter turn. Inverted, they pass

right down the runway.  Goose looks out and insouciantly

watches the world go by at 300 knots, upside down.

Right. Much better. ...Ahhh...what

do you call this?

It's a victory roll.

I wouldn't call it victory.  It's

more like...self immolation.

52B.  INT. CONTROL TOWER

Controllers work. Officers watch the landing activity. One

old salt, turns from the coffee machine, a cup of steaming

Java microns from his lips. A ROAR. VABOOM! The Tomcat roars

over. He yelps as hot coffee flys all over his shirt.

EXT. MAVERICK'S F-14

They complete the roll, bank left, zoom right by the tower,

level with the observation window.

52D.  F-14'S POV. Controllers look out at the F-14, mouths

drop open.

52E.  ANGLE GOOSE

He waves jauntily.

Hi...Hi there. How ya doing in

there?  Mav... Ahhh...you know, at

one point I did want a Navy career.

Come on, relax...

You see all those guys with gold on

their shoulders!!?... Oh, no, I

think that was Johnson, Air Boss of

the Kitty Hawk!

Come on, we beat an instructor. How

many times in your life do you get

to do a victory roll?

Just once, if they take your plane

away.

They roll out, break over the runway.

52F.  EXT. FLIGHTLINE.

Maverick and Goose walk by parking Tomcats...Ice is

unstrapping, Slider is climbing down. Ice looks at Maverick,

says one word.

Cowboys!

Maverick keeps walking...Goose hangs back.

Nice. Always a good idea to show up

your instructors.

He nods toward Jester, glaring at them from his A4. Goose

indicates the backseat of the Tomcat.

Hey, see any controls back there?

And anyway...we beat the Son of a

Bitch!

He turns and runs to catch up with Maverick.

53.  INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Pilots half undressed. Maverick and Goose enter the room,

carrying their helmets. The students look up at them, and

Goose suddenly flashes a thumb's up sign with a grin. The

students react with clenched fists, ad libs, high fives,

victory punches.

You won?!!!

Didn't everybody?

"Oooo" -- they all go "ooo" and laugh.

No, we...got our butts kicked.

Thirty seconds. That's all it took

to blow us out of the sky.

We went like this, he went like

that. I say to Hollywood: Where'd

he go? Hollywood says: where'd who

go?

And he's laughing. Right over the

radio, He's laughing at us.

Attention turns to the doorway as Ice and Slider enter. Ice

gives a brief dramatic pause, then flashes thumbs up and

smiles. The students celebrate Ice's win.  Ice handles the

attention with the easy composure of one who is used to it.

Maverick ignores him and begins to peel out of his G-suit.

Ice moves toward his locker.

You won.

Congratulations.		HOLLYWOOD

Maverick and Goose won too.

Ice talks into his locker.

That's not what I heard.

We won!

Ice turns back, stares them down, then turns back into his

locker, dismissing them.

Below the hard deck doesn't count.

You guys are the second team,

aren't you?

Maverick gets up, moves to him, starts to say something,

when Jester, breaks into the room.

Maverick, Goose. Viper's office. Now!

53A. INT. TOPGUN CORRIDOR OUTSIDE CO'S OFFICE.

SCREAMING AND YELLING.  A lot of screaming and yelling,

muffled by the door.

53B. INT. ANTEROOM.

Enlisted Yeomen and Chiefs go about their clerical duties in

acute embarrassment mixed with curiousity. Behind the CO'S door,

someone is screaming his head off.

BOOM! The door bursts open. A big, brawling Officer - Johnson,

the Air Boss - blasts out, nearly smashing into a female petty

officer. She almost spills her coffee. Johnson looks right and

left in fury too strong for words. He looks like he wants to

smash something. They move out of his way, but he justs blasts

through the door and disappears down the hall.

The enlisted men turn to Viper's office.

53D  THEIR POV

Jester stands inside stonefaced. Maverick and Goose are

rigid. Viper...with excess calm deliberation, softly walks

over, grasps the doornob. He glances in this direction. The

glance is totally without expression, and even scarier for

that.

53D. ANGLE ENLISTED (MEN)

In a flash, each man finds something totally engrossing in

his work, or something terribly important to do elsewhere.

Slowly, steadily, Viper swings his door closed.54.  INT.

VIPER'S OFFICE

He moves over to face Maverick. There is a SILENCE like

after a train wreck; nothing but the POPPING of sprung metal

and the low GASP of escaping steam. Viper speaks quietly,

like a funeral director consoling the living. Makes you want

to scream.

Well....That about covers the

flyby.

Jester almost breaks into a grin.

Now...in addition...you broke two

major rules of engagement. And...

That's ...not good.

Maverick gives no response. Viper continues.

Lieutenant Candela lost sight of

you, and called "no joy". You

failed to respond.

He stops and looks at Maverick... A beat. Maverick finally

nods

Why?

Maverick is exhausted. It's been a long, rough day. His

voice is a horse whisper.

I had him in view. I was peeling

over the egg, into a dive. He saw

me when I moved in for the kill.

There wasn't any danger...

Is that how you remember it?

Yes, sir. By the time we could

respond, we were diving right into

his view.

Viper is not satisfied with the answer, but he moves on.

The hard deck for this hop was ten

thousand feet. Jester, at what

point did you call off the fight?

Just below ten thousand.

But you continued to fight.

Another pause, another grudging nod.

Why?

We weren't below for more than ten

seconds. There was no danger. I had

the shot. I took it.

The rules of engagement are not

flexible. They exist for your

safety. You will obey them.

Is that clear?

Maverick thinks about continuing the discussion, but the

thought is momentary. He quickly cuts his losses, gives Viper

what he thinks he wants...He is just on the cusp of too

sincere.

Yes sir, perfectly clear. I guess

we were ...I was... just a little

over enthusiastic.

Viper measures him for a moment, then lets it go.

I guess you were. Dismissed.

Maverick and Goose leave the room. Viper looks at Jester,

picks up Maverick's fitness report. Doesn't read it, looks

back at Jester.

I don't know what to tell you,

Skip.

Tell me one thing.

Jester waits.

...If you had to go into combat,

would you want him with you?

Jester turns, walks slowly around the room. The walls are

lined with pictures; planes and pilots...history. There are

MiG killers, attack squadrons, ground personnel...There's one

picture of a Phantom in flight with the backseater mooning

the camera. Other pictures show carriers, famous flyers,

previous CO's. Finally Jester replys.

Yep.

Viper slaps shut the fitness report.

He's seat of the pants...

Completely unpredictable -- nothing

by the book. All over the sky. But

I don't know, Skip, he's really got

something.

Yeah, we get one of these guys

every damn class.  (laughs)

"Maverick!"

He throws the report on the desk.

Yup, a wild pony.

55.  OMITTED

56.  INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT

Wind ROAR, jet WHINE. Hollywood and Wolfman are being thrown

about as Hollywood fights the stick.

No. No. Look out, you lost it.

They depart flight. Tumble. The horizon swings wildly as

they go into flat spin.

We're dead!

A face appears at 12,000 feet, right in front of their

canopy. Goose's eyes bug at them.

Man, you guys gooned it. Your laser

butts are scattered across KANSAS.

Come on. I died enough for one

night.

56A.  EXT. COCKPIT

They climb out of the simulator - A cockpit sprung on

moveable rams, surrounded by a dome on which video images are

projected.

As they climb down, Maverick and Goose climb up into the

cockpit to take their place.

Have you guys ever considered

career counseling?

57. OMITTED

56B. SIMULATOR CONTROL ROOM - Filled with computers, tape

transports and video screen representations of computer

generated combat. Now Maverick flies it as Charlie and other

techs watch.

56C. COCKPIT

Maverick flys the heck out of it. It's real. It lurches and

bumps, the NOISES and sights look real. He gets on the tail

of a MiG. It breaks, he breaks, then what he does is just too

fast to follow. It screams around in a turn. Suddenly, there

is a WHUMMP...ALARMS...the lights come on.

What happened.

What did you do in there?

What did you do? You broke it!

58. COMPUTER ANALYSIS ROOM

Maverick and Goose enter. The techs cluster around the

keyboards trying to reprogram, to figure out what went wrong.

You flew it off the template.

Nobody ever did that before.

That's what she said last night.

She stares at Goose until he grins and moves off to give the

others his valuable opinions on how to reprogram the

computers.

What is it about you?

He just shrugs at her and smiles.

What would you say, too fast...too

quick...

And far too aggressive.

It is combat. Every second counts.

The hottest moves in the world

aren't gonna help you if you wind

up alone.  Your wingman's got to be

able to follow you. Trust you. Know

that he can depend on you. It's

more than just fancy flying.

Well, what you need...what you have

to keep looking for...what you want

to get is a wingman who can stay up

with you. Who can match you move

for move. Then you've got

something.  I'm sorry.

For what?

That stuff about the MiG. I was out

of line.

Apology acknowledged.

Is that all?

What else do you want?

Um. You.

There you go with those moves

again.

Too aggressive?

I don't mix with the boys. I work

here. Let's keep it professional.

I'm special.

Yes. I'll give you that!

Give me a break, I'm asking you

out.

I can't.

I thought there was something...

That night in the club...

Lieutenant...

Evan... or Maverick.

Maverick...you know the rules of

engagement.

Some one comes up hot on your six,

what do you do?

What are you talking about?

You turn into him, check him out,

identify friend or foe.

I'm not your foe.

And if he's harmless, you

disengage.

Harmless!

Uh hum.

What if he's not?

You have to shoot him down....If

he's smart, he'll turn away before

that happens.

Harmless. Nobody ever called me

harmless before...

And probably never again. It's

nothing personal. It's just...I

know a lot of pilots. Maybe I'm

immune...

Don't worry, I'm a new strain. And

I don't give up. Everything I've

ever wanted I've had to work like

hell for. Well, how about it?

How about what?

How about anything, anything you

want to do.

Hard to argue with that, isn't

it...

A date... Coffee... A drink...A

walk in the park.

What about the plane?

What plane.

Most of them invite me to sit in

the cockpit...play with the levers

and things.

Well, get used to it.

Used to what?

I'm different.

I'm starting to sense that now.

You're slow to engage. But you'll

come around.

She pushes him out the door

Let's make it at eight.

Make what?

Anything.

Okay, anything. Just...go. I've

gotta work.

She closes the door, turns back to her screen.

59 thru 61 OMITTED

***

59A.  BEACH LA JOLLA - DAY

A day off. Pilots, other personnel are enjoying a day at the

beach. There are bikinis, and beer, sunfishes and water

skiing. The annual Over-the-Line (a variation of softball)

tournament is in progress. The team from the Teddy Kennedy

Driving School is whipping another known as Scum de Terre.

The pilots are doing pretty well at blowing off steam.

59B.  UNDERSEA

Undulating sea grass. Muffled HISS of the surf. A pretty

fish comes into view. A spear shoots through it, and nails it

to the ocean floor.

59C.  SHORELINE

Two figures pop to the surface and wade in to the beach.

Maverick holds the wriggling fish. Charlie is repulsed. She

pulls off her mask and snorkle, follows him in to shore..

59D. THE BEACH

They flop down. He drops the fish in front of her, sees her

reaction at watching its death throes.

Why'd you do that?

I had the shot.

She looks at him for a moment, then turns away, fiddles with

her mask.

It dies. We live.

You're an animal.

That's true. What are you?

I don't enjoy watching things

suffer.

He smashes the fish on a rock. It is still.

No!

It's not suffering anymore.

You're horrible

You're not, cause you eat frozen

meatballs?   (he puts it down)

Things die. Every time you breathe,

you kill millions of tiny

organisms. Every time you eat,

something had to die.

You don't have to kill it.

Somebody does. It's more honest

this way. You do your own dirty

work.

You ever think about killing

another human being?

About as much as they think about

killing me.

Does it bother you?

They know the rules...(this is too

strong for her, she turns away, he

comes around to her.) That's the

deal. That's why you're up there.

It's him or me. That's the price of

admission. (she draws away) It

bothers you, why? You're part of

it. (She stiffens, he's losing her.

He softens)  Everybody dies. Most

people don't get to die for

something.

You don't want to confront it, do

you. You want to keep it all clean,

cerebral... velocity vectors,

wing-load diagrams...You ever been

up?

Flying?

You use your mind to keep things at

a distance. You ever just let go?

She doesn't answer.

You know what really scares me?

Living too long. Losing my hair and

my teeth...and my guts and my wind.

And my brains...Sitting in a room

with my hands in my lap, watching

daytime TV.

You don't believe any of this. You

don't think you'll ever die.

That's it, of course. When I'm up

there and doing it, I'm cheating it

every second. I'm subverting all

laws...gravity...whatever. I'm

skating the edge of it.

Winston Churchill.

What?

What he said..."There's nothing so

exhilarating as being shot at

without result."

All you've got is one life. I guess

it's worth about the same to every

body. You ever see an old woman

after her husband has died? And the

meaningless years of decline

stretch ahead...  When you're in

the air and doing something really

dangerous, you can look ahead...

maybe ten seconds. That's your

whole future. That's as far as it

goes. But imagine what those

seconds are worth.

What if you kill yourself? Think of

everything you'll miss.

There is lots of stuff I don't know

about...  Fine wine... great art...

the opera. I guess if I live long

enough, I'll get to it. If I don't,

I'll never miss it.

Are you really that brave?

I watched my mother die. Cancer.

She had a long time to think about

it. They say you reach an agreement

with death. Come to accept the fact

that pretty soon you won't be here.

I didn't see that. She... was very

brave...braver than I am. You go up

there, there isn't time to think.

If you make a mistake, you're just

a smudge on the ground. Simplifies

funeral arrangements.

It's just as I thought.

What?

You're totally insane.

Thanks very much.

Care for some suchi?.

59E.  THE OTHER END OF THE BEACH - LATER

A killer volleyball game in progress. Maverick and Charlie

wander toward it, talking softly to themselves. Goose runs up

and grabs him away.

Come on, we're next.

What?

Come on, I got over six bucks on

the line.

Maverick looks up and sees the other two-man team, the

victors, waiting on the other side of the net for them. Of

course it had to be Ice and Slider.Charlie sits and watches

as the game gets immediately out of hand. In moments,

Maverick and Ice rotate to forward positions directly

opposite each other across the net. Other revelers turn to

watch as it degenerates (?) to more than a game. Maverick

glances at Charlie. He seems uncomfortable, but irrevocably

drawn into the confrontation. She says nothing, but her

attitude is apparent. Back to the game: Slider and Goose set

them up, as they try to spike the ball in each other's face.

The final point...up over the middle. They both go up,

Maverick smashes, Ice blocks, but the ball sails away, off

his forearm. For the first time ever, Maverick beats him. He

looks over at Charlie, she is staring out to sea. She looks

back at him and he's suddenly had enough competition. They

call for another game, but Maverick turns away...

Come on, come on! It's double or

nothing.. We're talking twelve

bucks American, here.

I've had enough...for now.

He grabs Charlie and his gear..

Come on.

Where?

You want to go ballistic?

I don't know. I don't like being

out of control.

He looks back at Ice, bouncing the ball and staring at him.

Stick with me, you'll get used to it.

59F.  EXT. DESERT

The Bike doing 130, 140, 150 mph. Charlie is unfazed. He

turns to check her out, she smiles back at him.

CUT TO

59G.  EXT. RUSTIC ADOBE CANTINA - SUNSET

The bike is parked in front.

MONTAGE ON LOCKED OFF CAMERA - to show the passage of time...the

latticed terrace, streaks of light. Maverick is feeding a dog.

Charlie sits on a rail watching him.

I always wanted to fly... ever

since I first saw a jet. I wanted

to fly jets, then I wanted F-14's,

then I wanted to fly off carriers,

then I wanted Top Gun.

And now?

And now I want you.

You always get what you want?

I don't know yet.

DISSOLVE

He puts money in jukebox. She watches him...eye to eye

contact. The music comes on.

I want it understood.

Anything.

No fooling on base, no signs,

no comments, no talk. By anyone.

Why?

I'm a professional. You guys are

in my line of work.

A long beat. He looks at her -- makes the pact: like a

sailor.

Acknowleged.

She looks at his eyes for any sign of a put-on, insincerity.

Finally he smiles at her but she can read it. It's time. She

moves in and covers his grin with a gentle kiss.

DISSOLVE

To them sitting within striking distance at a table. The dog

sleeps beneath. Their eyes are now locked. The electricity

almost arcs between them.

TCU Scrub pine table. Their fingertips touch.

TIGHT SHOT. Waist to head. Holding, close together, swaying

in time with the music. Their lips gently brush.

60. 61. OMITTED

62.  EXT. DAY - DESERT - TACTS RANGE

An F-14 swoops over the desert, ROARS over an antenna

complex.

The JET.- In it's missile rack, it carries a TACTS

transponder. The TACTS Range is an area of the desert

completely enveloped by computerized radar. The computers

calculate a number of aircraft's positions and velocities by

means of transponders in the ships and ground stations that

talk to each other thousands of times a second.  Using this

system, it is possible to track aerial combat instantaneously

and give pilots directions and also to play back the combats

for analysis.

63.  INT. TACTS RANGE TRAILER - DAY

The double viewing screens are five feet high; high

technology, state of the art. On the screens are computer

animated figures showing jets from various angles. Flight

data is displayed. The operators punch buttons to show

various points-of-view of the battle: a pilot's p.o.v.; God's

p.o.v. from overhead, a long range p.o.v., showing topography

of the landscape and height of mountains.

Students and instructors sit on chairs in the peanut

gallery, facing Viper at the front of the room. Charlie is in

the back.

The bandit has good position right

here. All right, freeze here. The

moment of choice -- Maverick is

defensive. He has a chance to bug

out right here....Better to retire

and save your plane than force a

bad position. Stay in the diamond

another three seconds, the bandit

will blow you out of the sky...make

a hard right, select zone

5...(turns to Maverick to drive

point home) you can extend and

escape. You make a bad choice. Roll

forward.

The computerized rendering resumes on the screen.

You perform a split S. That's the

last thing you should do. The

bandit is right on your tail --

Freeze there...the bandit has you

in his gunsight. What were you

thinking here, Maverick?

I wasn't thinking. I just did it.

Big gamble with a thirty million

dollar plane!

No guts, no glory.

It's a joke. Viper doesn't like that answer at all, but some

of the students laugh and mockingly whistle at the cockiness

of it. They give Maverick the high sign. Slider leans forward

to him.

Your guts. His glory.

Maverick slumps down in his chair under Viper's glare.  The

computer rendering rolls forward again. He glances back at

Charlie. She smiles sympathetically at him.

Unfortunately, the gamble worked,

or you might have learned

something. The bandit never gets a

clean shot...Maverick makes an

aggressive vertical move here,

comes over the top and defeats the

bandit with a missile shot. The

encounter was a victory, but we've

shown it as an example of what not

to do. Ice is next.

Another computerized rendering comes up on the screen.

Hollywood leans close to Maverick and speaks quietly.

Gutsiest move I ever saw.

Maverick gives him a small nod of appreciation.

And the dumbest...Okay, look at

this. It's textbook. Ice takes

control of the battle immediately.

He never gives the bandit a chance

to take the offensive. An early

turn here -- excellent. He goes for

the jugular, and it's over just

that quick. Let's run that again,

it's exactly how it should be done.

64.  through  75B. OMITTED

76.  EXT. MIRAMAR RUNWAY - DAY

In full flight gear, carrying their helmets and trying to

stuff food down their gullets, the students rush/stumble

toward the flight line. Hollywood takes a bit of a sandwich

and makes a face.

What the hell is this?

Don't chew it, you won't have it

that long. Easier to clean the

cockpit if it comes up in big

chunks.

Jester yells from the distance.

On the run. Let's go. Move it!

A fighter pilot's lunch... a hot

dog and a puke.

They scurry ahead, overtaking the others.

I was a victim of circumstance.

They should have warned you about

that one.

She's kinky for flight suits--said

that she'd never seen so many

zippers--played with them all

night. The noise alone kept me up.

What'd you do?

Pulled left, rolled out,

underneath.

It's kind of ironic. All you guys

have women troubles and I don't.

That's because you don't have any

women.

Until last night. Did you see the

moves I was making on that girl at

the party?

The girl with the purple

fingernails?

That's her--tall hungry woman with

fire in her eyes. It was great.

It was bad.

Bad?

The girl with the purple

fingernails was Coogan's sister.

They all laugh. Wolfman looks stunned.

Coogan spent half the night looking

for her. He said he was gonna kill

the son-of-a-bitch who ruined his

sister.

I didn't ruin her.

You didn't help.

No, really. She came ruined!...

Ya think he knows it was me?

Seemed not to. But it's hard to

know. You never can tell what's in

the mind of a psychopath.

Wolfman looks very unsettled.

Hear about Ice?

What now?

He won again.

Goose walks beside Maverick now.

Something bothering you?

Nothing. Let's just go fight.

Wolfman looks very apprehensive as they approach the F-14's.

MECHANICS surround both planes, making last minute checks of

all systems. Among them is COOGAN, six and a half feet tall,

looking mean. Maverick tosses him a wave.

Morning, Coogan.

How's it goin', Coog?

Ever find your sister, Coogan?

You guys know somethin' about that?

Wolfman swallows hard and hurries quickly into the plane.

Coogan glares at them all with a look that could kill.

77.  OMITTED

78.  EXT. F-14'S - DAY

Hollywood leads, Maverick follows. They point their noses

down and dive. Two bogies fly side by side at five thousand,

outlined against the blue Pacific. Smaller, slower, they seem

helpless for a moment. We hear the instructors in the F-5's.

TWO AT SEVEN O'CLOCK, JESTER.

SCRAMBLE.

ROGER. COMING LEFT.

Holy shit, it's Viper.

Keep your shirt on, he's saying

holy shit it's us.

The bogies split. Bogey One hard left. Bogey Two hard right.

Hollywood sweeps left, pursuing Bogey One. Maverick hangs

back to cover him.

Bogey One makes a strong vertical move. Hollywood stays on

him.

STAY WITH HIM, WOOD... YOUR SIX

CLEAR!

Bogey One loops and comes down, and Hollywood almost loses

him for a moment before regaining the angle.

STAY WITH HIM! TIGHTEN YOUR TURN!

Bogey at three o'clock high! Nose

on!

Maverick looks quickly at three o'clock high, sees Bogey Two

returning to the fight. He jerks the stick right, and the two

planes make a quick pass.

SNAPSHOT..MISSED HIM..

ENGAGING THE OTHER GUY.

WOOD, YOU'RE ON YOUR OWN.

Just cover Wood, Maverick.

Mutual support, man!

I'm gonna take him, Goose.

Don't be greedy. Stay with Wood.

I want him!

Maverick goes suddenly vertical, zooms straight up.

Hey, come on--hey!

Maverick loops the F-14 down to get the quick angle on Viper

in Bogey Two. Viper takes off, running from the fight again.

Maverick looks over his shoulder and sees that Hollywood

still has a good position on Bogey One. He takes a hard right

and streaks off after Viper.

What what are you doing?

We're cover!

Wood's okay. I want Viper.

Goose looks back at Hollywood and Bogey One.

But we're cover!

Viper streaks across the sky with Maverick close behind. He

pushes the throttle forward to ZONE 5 - full afterburner.

Viper shows all his tricks...hard left, hard right, rolling

into vertical, flipping into a dive. Maverick stays with him.

Goddamn, rookie, you're all right!

79.  INT. F-14

Maverick turns to get Viper in the diamond. He hears a

SIDEWINDER GROWL in his headset.

What's the range, Goose. I've got a

good tone.

Viper jinks but Maverick stays with him.  Viper is in the

diamond, and the TONE GOES CRAZY. But suddenly....

Two bogies ! Three o'clock high,

nine o'clock high! Break!

They come out of nowhere, flashing down toward Maverick--a

crossfire ambush. Maverick's eyes are startled.

ATOLL ON THE NORTHERN F-14. HE'S

OUT OF THE FIGHT..

Maverick is stunned. He has been tricked, humiliated.

There's a little salt for the wound as Viper and Jester

celebrate.

NOT ONLY THAT, BUT ZORRO GOT YOUR

WINGMAN. NICE GOING.

THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT REGRETS TO

INFORM YOU THAT YOUR SONS ARE DEAD

BECAUSE THEY WERE STUPID!

Slaps his helmet like a dolt...

KNOCK OFF THE CHATTER, TOP GUNS.

LET'S RTB. VIPER HAS THE LEAD.

80.  INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Silence. Several pilots in various forms of undress.

Maverick and Goose sit with their heads down, a hangdog

expression on their faces.

81.  INT. DIRTY DAN'S - A BAR -

LATER

Maverick mopes at the bar, a figure comes up behind him.

Ya know, that was the best flying

I've seen since Nam...(He grins)

...Right up to that part where you

got killed.

Viper sits down. He's in a jovial, taunting mood.  Maverick

watches him guardedly.

Twenty years' experience, I

couldn't shake you. You may be a

great flyer. I mean that.

I lost.

Of course you did. I said a great

flyer, not a smart one. You fly

reckless. Great instincts. No

discipline. That ambush today, you

followed your emotions instead of

your wingman. Of course you got

killed...and well deserved to. It

was a really stupid mistake. In

battle, it gets people killed.

Maverick nods and stares at his beer.

I can take care of myself.

Talent is no holy shield. Von

Richtofen was killed by a farm boy.

Instincts are not enough. Do it our

way. We've worked these things out.

The good pilots can become better

and the great ones can learn how to

stay alive.  (he studies him for a

moment)  Why do you have to do

everything the hard way?

It's my own way. It works for me.

I don't care about the rest of that

stuff.

Then why are you here?

For the same reason you are.

Oh, you mean the thrill!

The flying. The fighting.  I'd go

up there ten times a day to fight.

I'd win at least nine of them.

That's all I want to do. It's what

I do best. I am real good.  Just

give me the jet.

Viper studies him,

It's not a gift, just a loan...

He finishes his beer, then rises.

Nine out of ten is okay, as long as

it's only fun and games. But this

isn't about that. This is serious

business. It is dangerous up there!

At 500 knots, things can change a

lot in a second. Discipline is what

protects us.

He signals the bartender and drops some money on the bar. He

stretches, looks around.

It was a good day. You learned

something. You lost and you're

still alive to think about it. And,

you lost your wingman. That's a

cardinal sin...don't ever do it

again. You owe Hollywood an apology

and you owe me a beer.

Viper touches Maverick's shoulder as he moves away. It was

just the gesture Maverick needed, for he seems to relax from

his tension. He sips his beer alone.

82.  INT. SAN DIEGO AIRPORT - NIGHT

Maverick and Goose move through the terminal,

anxious/expectant looks on their faces.

Relationships are a bitch, here.

It's hard enough to concentrate

...under the pressure. Having a

woman here is asking for it.

I guess that's what I'm doing,

then.

Where do you find the time? Where

do you find the energy. It's tough

enough to keep your mind on school.

A woman here is a real pain in

the...

A pretty woman emerges from the crowd and spots them first.

She rushes them, happily, carrying her sleepy four-year-old,

RICKY. Goose undergoes an immediate change, beaming a big

smile that he has practiced on her for years. She sets down

the kid.

...butt...Hi, honey, God, am I glad

to see you! I missed you.

Goose wraps his arms around Carol, smack, a kiss. She smiles

at Maverick, turns back to Goose.

I had to come, Willard, I got so

lonesome I just couldn't stand it.

Sure, honey, I understand. It's

great to see you. Hey where's your

backseater, where's the world's

smallest RIO..

He looks all around and then down at the kid, hiding shyly

behind his mother's skirts. Goose grabs up the kid and zooms

him around, a game they've played before, every six months or

so. The kid laughs happily.  Maverick just sort of smiles to

himself and shakes his head.

83.  OMITTED

84.  A POOL (OR BEACH)

Maverick comes to the surface. She enters frame by the side

of the pool.  She hands him a split fresh pineapple. He eats

it in the  most salacious manner possible. He's so contented,

he's babbling.

Food...and you...my F-14!

In that order?

Well no...inverse order.

I'm still second best.

You ever fly an F-14?

I don't fly in anything that

He gets out, grabs a towel, moves over to some chairs. His

flight suit is draped over one. He moves it to sit down.

Ahhh, you'd love it. Night carrier

landings! The most dangerous thing

you can think of! ...next to

you...And the most exciting. You're

living at one hundred and ten per

cent. Greatest high in the world...

Danger?

Yeah!

Doesn't it ever bother you?

Why, what's gonna happen?

His flight suit slips onto the ground. Charlie retrieves it.

As she lifts the suit, something falls out of the pocket.

Looks like a gold coin. She picks it up. Maverick is drying

his hair. She holds the object out to him, questioning. He

sees it, quickly takes it, stuffs it back into his pocket.

Lucky charm.

What do you take me for? It's a

Navy Cross.

Just good luck.

Where'd you get it.

Pawn shop. What's to eat?

He roots through a picnic basket.

84A.  MONTAGE - PREFLIGHT ACTIVITY

...MiG sweep over the water.  You

will proceed down the one-seven

-zero degree radial looking for

MiGs. You will engage all that you

find, destroy them, and return to

base. Maverick, has the lead. Any

questions? All right, let's go.

Move like you've got a

purpose....

85.  EXT. CLOUD COVER -

20,000 FT. - DAY

Four F-14's fly in formation over the Pacific, searching for

(MiGs). They spot them, engage. The combatants fly scissor

patterns, slashing past each other, angling for position.

We hear the VOICES OF COMBAT from the planes, a barrage of

information exchanges between pilots and RIO's. Maverick and

Ice swoop close together on each other's wing--moving on each

other, testing, they glance at each other and nod. The

Challenge...the fight is on. Suddenly an F-5 rises up out of

the clouds in front of them--Ice has the advantage and rolls

in on him.

ENGAGING BANDIT 12 O'CLOCK.

SHIT!!

The F-5 sees his pursuers. Goes into a hard left.

MIG'S IN A LEFT. MIG'S IN A

LEFTHAND. I'M ENGAGING.

Ice struggles against the G's to bring his nose to bear.

They go around into a Lufbery--a tight circle, Ice has the

advantage. He is closer to the F-5's tail than the F-5 is to

his. But he can't close, can't line up the shot. He grunts

and strains as the G force pushes him down.

COME OFF RIGHT--COME OFF HIGH--I'M

IN--I'LL ENGAGE.

STAY WHERE YOU ARE. HE'S MINE. I'M

ENGAGED. I'M IN.

Maverick maneuvers close to their left circle.

GET OUT OF THERE, YOU'RE UNSAFE.

GET OUT OF THERE.

FIRE, OR CLEAR OUT, ICE.

GET LOST!

YOU GOT TOO MUCH NOSE TO TAIL --

I'M COMING IN.

IT'S MY SHOT.

COME OFF--COME OFF RIGHT. I'M ON MY

WAY IN. YOU GO FREE, I'M ENGAGING.

STAY OUT OF IT. STAY OUT OF IT,

MAVERICK.

YOU CAN'T SHOOT HIM, I CAN. I'M IN.

MAVERICK - ABOVE.

ICE, ROLL OFF, I CAN SHOOT HIM.

NO, NO, NO, HE'S MINE.

Maverick is pulling a log of G's, but can't target his

weapons, he continues to turn in a hard circle, going round

and round without gaining. He can't bring his nose to bear.

IF YOU CAN'T SHOOT HIM, I CAN.

NO, I GOT HIM. I CAN TAKE HIM.

Ice stays.

COMING IN.

Maverick dives down between the two planes pulling 6.5 G's,

exposing his underside to Ice. All Ice sees is belly.

Obviously, in this attitude Maverick can't see him.

Sonofabitch.

He slams the stick hard right in toward Maverick.

Ice quickly rolls up right, in front of him.

LOOK OUT!

Maverick sees him flash into his view. He has to slam the

stick forward to avoid collision. He swings by real close.

Too close.

Oh, no!

They pass through Ice's turbulence. The blast distorts the

airflow to Maverick's left engine. BOOMBOOMBOOM. The engine

flames out. Full thrust on the right, engine swings the tail

around in a yaw. Maverick slams the stick right to correct

but too late.

Plane's coupling up! Plane's

coupling up!

The plane couples one yaw to the next--the tail swings

around-- which becomes an ever increasing flat spin, like an

out-of -control frisbee.

This is not good!...(Rising panic)

We're low!

Maverick is pinned to the instrument panel by centrifugal

force, desperately tries to reach back for the ejection

lever--but is falling short by about a foot.

I'm pinned to the panel.

Time to go.

I can't eject.

The plane is spinning ever faster, out of control. He drops

the gear. Still spins. Goose is closer to center of spin--G

forces are less. He reaches behind him for the eject handle,

starts the eject sequence.

3000 feet. I'll do it.

Go ahead. I can't reach. 2000 feet!

85A.  BOOM - A HURRICANE OF WIND AND NOISE

The canopy BLASTS away--but is held spinning above the

cockpit by the vortex of the sinking jet. Goose glances up at

it.

1000.

Let's go. Eject.

Goose yanks the ejection handle. Things happen in a split

second. Goose is fired up and out by the rocket under his

seat. Almost instantly he impacts the spinning canopy. A

sickening CRUNCH. The canopy is knocked away. Maverick is

slammed back in his seat as the ejection seat straps wind up.

He is BLASTED out of the plane just before it spins in.

85B.  TIGHT ON MAVERICK AS HE TUMBLES IN SLOW MOTION

He's in shock..the loud THUMPING of his heart, labored

breathing, a scream that stays in his mind.

Instinctively, he gropes for straps. He releases the pilot

seat, it tumbles away. His chute streams, balloons open,

snapping his body like a bullwhip.  He drifts momentarily,

then plunges into the sea.

85C. UNDERWATER

His face, distorted in the water; wild eyes, disoriented,

choking for air. He reaches out, finds nothing to grab.

Suddenly, he is yanked hard to the side.

85D.  SURFACE

The parachute is caught by the wind, and dragged, pulling

Maverick along beneath the surface. He is twisting in the

water, turning over and over, trying desperately to slip out

of the tangled straps. He finally hits the surface of the

water and sucks air into his lungs. With the end of his

strength, he hits the release snaps and breaks free from the

parachute. It whips away like a kite in a typhoon.

The sea is choppy and rough. He struggles as his equipment

drags him under. He twists, finds the inflatable raft

attached to his harness. Maverick pulls the cord, and the

raft hisses open. He pulls his body into the six-by-two foot

raft and collapses, completely exhausted. The survival has

been almost without thinking: an instinctual physical

struggle.

85E.  TWILIGHT

Maverick begins to focus on the situation. He stains the

water with dye, then sees another parachute floating nearby.

Paddling to the parachute, he reaches over the side and

begins to pull on the heavy cords that are submerged in the

water.

A great struggle. The weight is extremely heavy. Finally, he

pulls a body to the surface. Goose. Goose is dead. Maverick

releases the parachute and pulls Goose into the raft on top

of him. He holds Goose in his arms. His mind shuts down

again.

From high above the ocean, we see the debris on the water.

An oil slick, pieces of honeycomb titanium, and the small,

helpless figure in the raft.

DISSOLVE TO:

86.  EXT. OCEAN - NIGHT

Searchlights skim over the black ocean. A brilliant light

flashes as Maverick pops a pencil flare. Helicopter blades

flick powerfully. The lights of the choppers descend toward

the wreckage area, scanning the debris, searching for life.

The spotlights find Maverick and Goose in the raft.

The draft from the chopper churns the water. A FROGMAN drops

from the chopper and hits with a heavy splashes. He surfaces

and swims to the raft as a rescue harness is lowered.

Maverick watches curiously as he starts to examine Goose. He

hugs Goose closer and looks threatened.

Let him go, sir. Take it easy.

He tries to pry Goose free, but Maverick has a death grip on

the body.

Sir! Let him go. It's all right.

Let him go.

Maverick glares at the man as he bobs in the water.

Another long moment, then Maverick releases Goose. The

frogman quickly straps Maverick into the harness.

HIS POV. - He watches the lifeless body in the water as he

is pulled up and away. He shivers from the cold.

87.  INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Extreme CLOSE ON Maverick's face. He is emotionless. His

eyes are flat and absolutely without expression. There is

complete silence in the room. Then we hear the quiet, calm,

probing voice of Viper.

How do you feel?

All right.

Goose is dead.

I know. I was there.

Not one sign of emotion from Maverick. Not one tone of

expression. We see Viper now, and his face is strained from a

very long day.

If you fly jets long enough,

something like this happens to you.

No one escapes it. It touches us

all.

Maverick looks at Viper, and his eyes are very disturbed.

He was...my responsibility--my RIO.

My first squadron in Vietnam, we

lost eight out of eighteen planes.

Ten guys. The first one kills you,

but there'll be others--you can

count on it.

No reaction from Maverick. He can't quite face up to that

reality right now.

You've got to put him in the box.

Maverick is watching Viper, but he doesn't have anything to

say.

88.  EXT. CHARLIE'S SPORTSCAR - NIGHT

The RADIO plays John Lennon; "Stand by Me". Maverick opens

his eyes, doesn't know where he is for a moment.

...they say you're alright.

I'm fine.

This is it, then.

What?

The dark side. The price you pay

for all the fun you're having. You

knew about it, of course. Didn't

you?

He was a friend of mine. A good

guy...great guy. It was my

fault.

That's not what I hear.

I was flying...my responsibility.

That's what you get flight pay for.

Maybe I shouldn't take it.

Why? You act like you didn't know

one day this would happen.

Not to me.

You knew it. You all do. It's part

of it. Maybe the most important

part.

88A.  ON THE BEACH - NIGHT AND FOG

Charlie's car pulls up. They get out and walk down toward

the water. Maverick seems dazed. She is softly taunting.

Where are we?

Where are we? You know where we

are. It's called the beach. It's

where life first crawled up out of

the sea. I come here sometimes...

when I feel like crawling back in.

You don't have to do this.

Do what, show you a good time?

I'm not good company. I should be

alone.

I don't think so, but if that's

what you want...

They stand there, not making a move.

No.

What do you want?

I want it back.

What?

Yesterday.

She turns, nods out, past the moon.

You look way out there. Out past

the date line. West becomes East,

all things change. You cross the

line...today becomes yesterday...or

tomorrow, I forget which.

That's what I want.

Of course the line's just

imaginary. You can cross it twenty

times...nothing really changes.

She turns and walks along the surfline.

On the beach... It's what they say

when Navy men retire...He's "On The

Beach". I always liked that. I had

a picture...in my head... all these

old guys wandering around here,

looking out into the past.

He walks to the surf, kicks the sand with his bare feet.

If we knew then, what we know now,

we might never have come up out of

there.

He turns to her. She just looks at him.

You don't believe that.

Hardly ever.

Only when you're depressed. Then it

passes.

It does.

Everything passes. Immutable law of

the Universe.

He picks up a piece of flotsam, a twig, worn smooth.

This too...shall pass. You put as

much life as you can between it and

you. You start piling up experience

between then and now.

He turns and walks.

What do you do when you come here?

I sit. I think. I play games.

What kind of games?

I like to play "reality".

She stops and turns.

How do you play reality.

It's strip reality, actually, like

what the pilots always want to

play.

Strip reality! How do you play

that?

It's like strip poker, only,

without the bluffing. (he laughs

again) One person says something

and if the other one accepts that

it's true, the one who says it,

gets to take one item of clothing

off.

You're crazy. (She stops, he goes

on, softer) That's a pretty silly

game.

Not as silly as some. You know the

silliest one? ...that we are gods.

That we control events on the

beach... that we can turn back

time...

She moves in close.

Want to play the game?

How does it go?

You say the truth. (a beat...)

Go ahead. Don't be afraid. You want

to win the game, don'tcha?

What truth?

The big one. The one that's most on

your mind.

A long pause...it comes hard.

Goose is dead.

True.

Now?

Take something off.

Off me or off you?

That's up to you.

He takes the ribbon from her hair. It falls down over her

face and shoulders. Now it's her turn.

It's dangerous...what you do.

He nods. She slowly loosens his tie and pulls it from around

his neck.

It was my fault.

She says nothing, stands looking into his eyes. He slowly,

as if in a trance, takes her blouse off.

You can't bring him back.

She takes off his shirt.

It was my fault.

He starts to reach for her. She pulls back.

Nope. Already used that.

She turns and thinks for a moment, looking at the moon.

Your life goes on.

Rather than struggle his T shirt over his head, she grabs it

with both hands. She leans in close and bites it. She grabs

both sides of the tear and slowly rips it off his body.

What does it mean?

That wasn't fair. It was a

question. Penalty round!

She drops her skirt.

You didn't mean it. You didn't

think. You'd do anything to take it

back.

That's three.

And that's one!

She unbuckles his belt, slowly slides it off. She unzips his

pants, they fall.

One more.

Your watch.

She unbuckles it.

You owe me one.

He rests his head on her shoulder, unhooks her bra. She

shrugs it off.

They stand on the beach in shorts and bikini bottom, looking

into each other's eyes.

Looks like a tie.

Who's gonna win?

We'll say it together. On the count

of three...One...two...

Leaning in, softer and harder...they both jump the gun.

I love.ove y.you.

They embrace madly and sink to the sand. From the distance

it looks like a strange slithering creature crawling back to

the sea.

89.  INT. GOOSE'S ROOM - NIGHT

The lights are out in Goose's room at the Bachelor Officers'

Quarters. The door opens, and Maverick enters. He sets a

cardboard box on the bed.

Silently, Maverick gathers together Goose's few personal

possessions. He fills the box with clothes, books, a clock, a

radio, a walkman, and articles from the bathroom. He examines

each closely, like an artifact...as if he might find some

message or meaning in them. He fumbles them into the box. He

can't see too well, his eyes are full of tears.

Maverick closes the box and carries it to the door. He takes

one last glance around, then leaves and closes the door

behind him.

89A.  INT. BOQ RECEPTION AREA                      *

Carol and the kid, stand, staring at a silent TV. Carol

looks dazed, lost. Maverick walks in, finds her. An awkward

silence while they both try to think of something to say.

Maverick hands the box to Carol.

90.   OMITTED

89B.  CLOSE UP - MAVERICK.

He sits staring right through us...the thousand-yard stare.

A strange white unreal light washes over him. The only color,

the Navy and gold of the stripes on his shoulderboards. A low

rumbling mumbling filters through the HISS of surf or fans or

something...Snatches of low whispered

conversation....disregard of...basic air-safety

principles...too aggressive...incident.... 29 July...within

performance parameters... disciplinary action...tactical

doctrine.... even reckless at times...

conjecture...unsupported ...benefit of the doubt...

Maverick's

eyes slowly focus. The light attenuates. The surrounding

image becomes denser. Things become real.

89C.  INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY - MAVERICK'S POV

A BOARD OF INQUIRY, a COMMANDER and other NAVY OFFICERS

seated behind tables at the front of the room. Maverick faces

them, wearing dress whites. Viper is also present. The

Commander looks at each of the Officers. They each nod, in

turn, indicating readiness. The Commander turns to Maverick,

and states for the record:

The Board of Inquiry finds that Lt.

Evan Mitchell was not at fault in

the accident of twenty-nine July.

No response from Maverick, one way or the other. Viper

studies his face with concern.

cleared of this incident.

Still no response from Maverick.

Lt. Mitchell is restored to flight

status without further delay. These

proceedings are closed.

Maverick doesn't respond.

91.  INT. MAVERICK'S ROOM - NIGHT

Maverick lies on his bunk and stares at the ceiling. The

phone next to his bed is RINGING.  It RINGS EIGHT OR NINE

TIMES, then stops. He makes no move to reach for it.

92. through 95. OMITTED

94A.  INT. COCKPIT - F-14 ON FLIGHT LINE

Maverick sits in the cockpit staring at the controls while

the ground crew preps the aircraft for flight. Coogan helps

him strap in. He speaks solicitously to Maverick. It is

unheard over the JET NOISE and RADIO BABBLE. Maverick looks

at the cockpit as if it's a strange territory, suddenly

foreign to him. He grabs the stick like it's some peculiar

talisman. He turns and looks aft. He seems surprised that it

moves the control surfaces in the tails.

96.  INT. F-14 - DAY

BOGEY AT TEN O'CLOCK LOW. YOU'VE

GOT THE ANGLE -- PIECE OF CAKE.

Maverick checks ten o'clock low. He is disturbed. He tries

to make the move, but he is a man with no secret: he is

afraid.

ENGAGE, MAVERICK - ANYTIME.

The bogey abruptly turns into him. Maverick hesitates. Then

suddenly, he jerks the stick hard right and takes the F-14

away from the bogey at great speed. Fungus is startled.

WHAT? WHERE'RE YOU--HEY, WHERE IN

THE HELL ARE YOU GOING?

DIDN'T ... AHHH...LOOK GOOD.

WHAT DO YOU MEAN? IT DOESN'T GET TO

LOOK MUCH BETTER THAN THAT?

NO. NO GOOD.

96A.  INT. FLIGHT LINE - DAY

Jester walks up to Viper who waits near an F-5.

He just won't engage. He can't do

it, Skipper. He can't get back on

the horse.

It's only been a week. Keep sending

him up.

I've seen this before.

So have I.

Some guys never get it back.

He walks off.

97. through 102.  OMITTED

103.  INT. LOCKER ROOM - IMMEDIATELY AFTER

Maverick grabs his stuff out of the locker, throws them in a

bag. He glances up as Fungus enters, continues to pack.

What are you doing?

Saving them some paperwork.

Since when did you care about

paperwork?

Maverick walks away. Fungus hesitates, then follows him.

If I could fly like you I'd have

everything I want. If I could fly

at all. I can't fly. I can't fly

like that. Nobody can. Whatever it

is, you've got it!

Not anymore.

So, you're scared--so what? You

ever get a good look at me in the

back seat, I'm goddamn terrified.

Grabbing the suitcase, Maverick brushes past Jester and

walks up the corridor. Jester and Fungus watch him go. Fungus

goes to the phone.

104.  EXT. SAN DIEGO AIRPORT - NIGHT

Charlie parks her car, jumps out, and runs toward the main

entrance to the terminal.

105.  INT. TERMINAL

Charlie hurries through the crowd, bumping past people,

searching frantically for Maverick in the huge terminal. She

moves past bench after bench, and her eyes flick in all

directions. A quick glance at the souvenir shop, the coffee

shop, and then she heads for the bar.

Maverick is there, sitting alone in a booth with his

suitcase beside him, staring into a drink. Charlie composes

herself, then walks to the booth and sits down across the

table from him. Maverick does not look pleased.

Never liked fighter pilots anyway.

He looks up trying to be angry, but he can't help it, she

makes him laugh.

You came to the right place.

The waitress comes up.

Turns to the waitress.

I'll have what he's having...

Hemlock, is it?

The waitress departs. He tries not to smile, but can't help

it.

You weren't gonna say goodbye?

I was, later.

Long distance? I wouldn't do that

to you. I'd at least talk to you.

I didn't want to see you. I mean, I

did...but I didn't..

I know exactly what you mean.

How could you?

I've got a gift just like you do.

My gift is I just know what people

mean, even if they can't say it. It

helps when you're trying to

communicate with fighter pilots.

Like what you just said was "I'm

embarrassed, I feel I've done

something wrong, that I've failed,

and I don't think I can live up to

the expectations of a wonderful

interesting, intelligent woman like

yourself." That about it?

...Something like that.

And I'm gonna sneak off, and be by

myself for awhile, like until I can

think of a new career...hotel

management or something...

Big talk for someone who's never

been shot off her computer.

Hey, I never said I was a fighter

pilot...I never claimed to think it

was fun to be shot off the end of a

ship in a storm. I can find

contentment in a good book. I don't

have to roar by someone at Mach two

with my hair on fire. Sometimes...I

just get happy being with the right

man.

I hope you find him.

I think I have... I could be wrong.

I have been before. Just remember

one thing. If you're not Top Gun,

if you're not fighting jets, you're

not gonna be able to act like a

fighter pilot... You're gonna have

to act like the rest of us. You're

gonna have to master humility. For

you guys, that's the toughest

maneuver of all.

She gets up...lays a bill out for the drinks...

So long, Sailor. See you on the

beach sometime.

She swings away. Her wake sucks in the stares of every man

in the place. Then they look over to Maverick, quick flicks

of envy in their eyes. He stares them back and can't quite

meet their eyes.

106.  EXT. BEACH AT VIPER'S HOUSE - LATER

Viper is tugged down the beach by a three year old kid. They

come across one creature who's had a bad night...Viper spots

him, he spots Viper, and Viper moves toward him. Tim, Viper's

kid, wants to head for the sea and pulls his father in that

direction. He stops, puts his hand on his hips like he's seen

the pilots do.

Dad...Of all the aminals in the

ocean, which one's the baddest?

I don't know, Tim. You'll have to

ask them.

Viper turns to the creature, Maverick, and shrugs.

Runs in the family...

Maverick stands up.

Skipper, sorry to bother you.

No bother.

I called your house.

My wife's house.

She said you took your kid to the

each. Every second Sunday. Zoo or

beach or the ballgame. Y'have the

option...(Maverick thinks for a

beat. Segues to the question...)

What about me?

Viper turns, they stroll together.

We can send you back to your

squadron with nothing noted on your

record except "CNC" --course not

completed, no explanation required.

Theoretically, it doesn't hurt your

career, but people always wonder

about things like that.

Or....

Or you can quit.

I didn't know either. That's why I

told Jester to prepare your papers.

Maverick looks irritated. Viper stops at an icecream vendor

and orders three with a gesture.

You've already made up your mind.

It's no disgrace, kid. That spin

was hell. It would wreck anyone's

confidence. You could be a good

pilot again someday...

You think I should quit?!

I didn't say that. That's up to

you. But I have responsibility for

the other guys up there, not just

you. They need to know you're all

right...that they can depend on

you.

The vendor hands them icecream, they take it.

Here, let me get this. We'll be

even.

He reaches into his pocket for change, comes out with a

handful. Slams it on the counter, stars picking the proper

change out. Viper spots something and reaches for

it...Maverick sees and tries to block it, but Viper comes up

with the Navy Cross.

Lucky charm.

But Viper recognizes it for what it is.

Sometimes it's luck, but in this

case, he earned it... I served with

your old man.

I know.

VF 51, the Oriskany. You remind me

of him. You're just like he was,

only better...and worse.

I'm nothing like him.

You may not think so, but you are.

He was by the book, all the way.

They waved him off. He thought he

knew better. He hit the

ramp.

I never heard that.

Not something they tell dependents.

It's not true.

Viper looks at him, for a long beat, throws his icecream

away.

Why would I lie?

He turns, walks away. Maverick stands there for a moment,

thinking, then catches up to him, stops him...struggles with

the thought...as Viper breaks in...

You start on a wrong heading... the

more you stick to it, the further

you get from your target. A good

pilot always questions himself,

always questions his judgments,

stays alert for drift and makes the

corrections...You may find a little

discipline helps with the fear. You

don't have to be alone up there.

A pause...quiet intensity.

How can I go on? I feel so...

responsible.

Kid, the plain fact is...you are.

I'm not gonna stand here and blow

sunshine up your ass. Technically,

they absolved you. You and I know

what really happened. You pushed

it. You are responsible and you'll

always carry that. You know what,

I'll carry it too. I should have

taken you out of that cockpit.

I guess I'm a hopeless romantic...

I always try to find something

worthwhile in someone's death. It's

no trade-off. It's not one for one.

What you learned isn't worth his

death. It couldn't be. But maybe

there is some value in it. I know

it's the first thing I've ever seen

that's really gotten to you. Now

the question is, what will you do

with it. If it gets you out of

flight status...so you don't kill

yourself or anybody else...that's

good. That's one good thing. You

were an accident waiting to

happen.

You think I shouldn't fly.

I didn't say that. That's up to

you. I think that if you do, if you

choose to come back, you'll be a

better pilot... a better man.

Would you take me back? Would they?

I'll have to think about it. I

don't know about them. I do know

one thing, We've got a lot invested

in you. We'd hate to lose it. Even

more than those other guys, Naval

Aviation needs a very few, very

good men.

107 through  114.  OMITTED

115.  INT. TOP GUN OFFICE

LOUD ROCK AND ROLL. The graduation ceremonies are in full

swing...They consist of informal ribbing, laughing, and a lot

of talking with the hands. every now and then, the name Goose

comes up and a shadow passes across a face. For the most

part, they press on, having a good time. Fungus shrugs at

someone's question and looks around.

I don't know where he is...

What are his plans?

I don't know.

Ice stands proudly holding the Top Gun plaque as others

congratulate him...Hollywood looks up as the door opens,

Maverick is there.  He looks uncomfortable, unsure. He sees

Ice with the plaque. Fungus moves over to him, brings him in.

I'm glad.

Good to see you, man.

One by one, they come over, shake his hand. Viper stands

there, looking pleased but gruff. Maverick walks over, shakes

his hand. The party starts to pick up. A real celebration,

now.

Jester enters, a sheaf of messages in his hand. He takes

Viper aside for a word. Viper nods at him. The group's

attention gradually swings onto them. They quiet down

instinctively. Viper finally turns to them.

Gentlemen, you know how I hate to

break up this party before it has a

chance to get really out of hand...

...but there's a major flap on.

We're being called back?

You're on your way. Don't bother

going to BOQ. Your bags are packed.

He hands them orders. Someone turns the music back up... as

they shake hands all around, the music grows, becomes purer

as the background voices drop out.

115A.  TIGHT ON MAVERICK'S

EYES

WIDEN OUT -

To include his helmet. Stereo headphones from his walkman

carry the same music from the party as he sits in the cockpit

and stares at the grey water rushing under. He sits in his

Tomcat on Ready 5 Alert. In the back, Fungus plays a hand

computer game - Jet Attack.

116.  EXT. USS KITTY HAWK - SOMEWHERE AT SEA

Maverick's Tomcat sits waiting for a launch order on the

forward catapult.

116A.  ANGLE - MAVERICK

He goes over the briefing in his mind...Stinger's voice

breaks through the music.:

...Navy oceanographic ship...

international waters... fired

upon... unknown forces...

117.  INT. READY ROOM - USS KITTYHAWK - MOMENTS BEFORE

In full flight gear, sixteen teams of fighter pilots and

RIO's pay close attention to the Squadron CO, Stinger.

...by unknown forces...by Migs. We

don't know who they are.  All I

know is that it's our ship, and our

orders are to escort it out of the

area.

Stinger circles an area on the map.

117A.  TOMCAT ON THE DECK - MAVERICK

He studies his copy of the same map, headings and vectors

pencilled in.

This is "Bullseye". A rescue

operation is to begin within the

hour. Your mission is to give air

support to that rescue. There are

MiGs in the area, and tensions are

high. If you witness a hostile act

you will return fire. We will be

covering 360 degrees of the compass

by section. Be prepared for

anything.

117B.  INT. READY ROOM

Stinger is speaking to individual pilots.

Ice and Hollywood, sector two.

He turns to Maverick who stands nearby.

And Maverick. You'll back them up,

on Ready Five.

117C.  CLOSE ON HIS FACE

A moment's disappointment passes so fleetingly, you hardly

see it.

Yessir.

As the aircrews file out, tense but excited.

118.  ICE AND HOLLYWOOD FLY TOGETHER AT TEN THOUSAND FEET

Their eyes search the horizon, while Slider and Wolfman

watch their instruments.

MUSTANG, THIS IS VOODOO ONE,

The two jets streak across the sky.

118A.  INT. COCKPIT

Suddenly, there are BLIPS on the radar scope.

CONTACT. TWO BOGEYS 20 RIGHT. AT 12

MILES, CLOSING.

118B.  INT. COCKPIT - THEIR POV

Two MiGs flying low to the deck.

TALLY HO. TWO MIGS AT TWO

118C.  THE MIGS SUDDENLY PULL VERTICAL, STREAK STRAIGHT UP.

118D.  ICE AND HOLLYWOOD WATCH CAREFULLY.

WHAT ARE YOUR INTENTIONS,

BOYS?

THEY'RE JUST HASSELING. LET'S WORK

THEM OUT OF THE AREA.

I'VE GOT TWO MORE BOGEYS COMING IN

AT FOUR O'CLOCK HIGH.

GOT 'EM.

118E.  THE FOUR MIGS

Join together in a box formation, begin to circle the area.

TWO MORE -- TWO MORE CONTACTS.

2-7-0 at 10 MILES. WE NEED SOME

HELP HERE, MUSTANG.

MUSTANG, WE HAVE FOUR MIGS IN THE

AREA OF BULLSEYE. REQUEST YOU

LAUNCH THE ALERT 5 FOR SUPPORT.

119.  DECK - KITTY HAWK

Maverick sits in his Tomcat on the Catapult on ready alert,

listening to the message traffic. He gets a launch order,

turns to the LSO. The LSO salutes, Maverick salutes and flips

him the bird. The LSO drops to the deck. Maverick is slammed

back as the F-14 is fired off the deck and rockets into the

sky.

ROGER, VOODOO.

120.  EXT. SKY - HOLLYWOOD AND ICE

The two MiGs cross in a scissor pattern in their path... a

provocation...they join together again and fly level at ten

thousand feet. One of the MiGs does a sudden canopy roll.

VERY FANCY!

BOOM! A FLASH! Suddenly, Out of nowhere, Hollywood's hit.

WHAM! Just that fast, he's hit and goes down.  His f-14

disappears into the clouds.

WOOD! WOOD, ACKNOWLEDGE!

Ice puts his nose down and follows him.

VOODOO ONE, MUSTANG. VOODOO THREE

IS HIT. GOING DOWN. WILL ATTEMPT

SAR.

He comes out of clouds at 1500, nothing but empty water

below.

Do you have them? Did they get out

or not?

No contact. I don't know.

121.  EXT. MAVERICK'S F-14

VOODOO, GHOST RIDER ONE. I'M ON THE

WAY. WAIT FOR ME.

122.  THE SKY - MIGS AND TOMCATS CIRCLE

THEY GOT WOLF, THEY GOT WOOD. THEY

GOT THEM..

MUSTANG, GHOST RIDER. PERMISSION TO

FIRE.

GHOST RIDER,  THIS IS MUSTANG.

PERMISSION TO FIRE. PERMISSION TO

FIRE.

ROGER. ENGAGING. I HAVE THE LEAD.

122A.  INT. MAVERICK'S F-14

Let's go! Dive on those bastards!

Maverick hesitates.

Come on, man, engage. This is it.

Get your nose in there.

Maverick hesitates again. He sees the hornet's nest below;

planes all over the sky.

Bandit at seven o'clock low--solo.

Take him. Pull on the goddamn

stick, man!

Okay, okay.

Don't tell me okay. Do it!

Maverick draws a breath, then forces himself to pull the

stick over. The F-14 rolls in hard toward the battle.

Suddenly, the cluster breaks apart. The MiGs break in every

direction as Maverick BLASTS through their formation.

Something comes up through the clouds. A MiG BLASTS by.

Another rolls in and locks onto them.

The MiGs swarm toward the TOMCATS, coming from every

direction. CANNON FIRE erupts from one of the MiGs.

MAVERICK'S EMGAGED. HARD LEFT, ICE,

PADLOCK THE EASTERN SECTION.

The F-14's execute a left oblique turn in unison. They come

down in a section attack with their cannons blazing. From

Maverick's cockpit, everything looks choppy:  MiGs slide past

at incredible speed. Cannons BLAST, as the planes scramble

for position.

Out-numbered four to two, Maverick and Ice fight

defensively. Maverick has the angle on a MIG, when Fungus

spots a missile launch.

BREAK LEFT! BREAK LEFT!   CHAFF!

FLARES!

BREAKING LEFT!

Maverick releases a flare as he takes the F-14 into a hard

left. The missile tracks the heat of the flare and sails out

of the area, missing the Tomcat and falling toward the sea.

TWO MIGS ON MY TAIL, MAVERICK. I'M

DEFENSIVE.

Maverick jerks his stick right and streaks toward Ice. He

cuts off one of the MiGs with CANNON FIRE, driving it down

toward the deck. Ice goes into vertical and comes around to

gain an angle on the other MiG. His RIO is in position to

check Mav's rear.

MAVERICK! SIX O'CLOCK!

Maverick turns to look and jerks a hard left. The MiG is on

him, CANNON BLAZING. Ice Yo Yos inside and cuts the MiG off.

FOX ONE.

He fires a sidewinder. The MiG turns hard, the missile sails

away.

BANDIT, THREE O'OLOCK HIGH!

Ice's F-14 is suddenly caught in a HAIL OF CANNON FIRE as a

MiG sweeps down from three o'clock. He breaks, dives. The

jets streak across the sky, low to the deck, skimming the

surface.

ICE'S  DEFENSIVE, HELP HIM OUT.

Maverick's F-14 Rollaways in and intercepts the bogey on

Ice's tail.

REVERSE RIGHT.

Ice turns right, the MiG bugs and jerks into vertical.

Maverick swoops after him.

STAY WITH HIM. YOUR SIX IS CLEAR.

Maverick closes, jerking left, right, twisting and turning,

staying on his tail.

122B.  MAVERICK'S COCKPIT

ONE ON OUR SIX! BUG OUT! BUG OUT!

BULLETS fly by Maverick's F-14 from the MiG on his six. He

pulls a hard left, then takes the plane straight up. We hear

instructions shouted by Fungus, but it is all obscured in the

SOUNDS AND FURY OF THE BATTLE. Maverick peels over the top

and comes down like a comet. A series of passes at the MiGs.

As they come by, one of the MiGs pulls up,

OKAY, GOING UP. ICE, GO HIGH.

LOOK OUT!

They look up. An MiG 21 is coming down, belly to them, close

to a mid-air collision.

JESUS!

He pushes down. The MiG ROARS BY. The whole airplane goes

"BOOOMMMM" it's that close.

OHHHHH SHIT!

The shock, the air pressure SLAMS them as it goes by,

missing by 4-5 feet. Maverick pulls back in, sees a MiG 21

below. It takes off, bugging out. Ice goes after him. The MiG

maneuvers, jerking hard left, hard right, twisting  up, down.

Ice is right in his shadow. They come in hard and low over

the sea. He has the MiG in the diamond.

GOOD TONE, FOX ONE

The MiG starts turning.

Ah Nuts!

The missile goes by the tail.

Son of a bitch!

Then his tail comes off, the airplane goes over, a chute

comes out. The MiG EXPLODES into a thousand small pieces.

They roar by the MiG pilot hanging in his straps.

JESUS!  HEY SPLASH ONE, SPLASH ONE

BANDIT! SPLASH THAT SUCKER!

I GOT ONE HERE. ON THE NOSE.

COMING DOWN.

Rolling down on him, good SIDEWINDER TONE. The MiG'S sense

him, they break, one guy down low.

ON THE NOSE?

GOT 'EM. GOT GOOD TONE.

He squeezes the trigger.

123.  EXT. THE MISSILE STARTS TO GO

The vapor trail comes off, the MiG 21 turns like he's been

bounced off a rubber wall, comes around on the missile, beats

it. The missile flies by him.

AH, SHIT! GODDAMN IT!

MiG comes back turning into him.

THERE'S ANOTHER ONE UP THERE!

I GOT ONE COMING UP.

AND HE'S GUNNING.

He looks back. 30 millimeter tracers go by; they just kind

of float. He breaks, hits airbrakes, the trailing MiG dives

through.

Suddenly another MiG appears, rocketing straight for him.

They close at 900 knots--VABOOOM!--They pass nose to nose,

canopy to canopy. Both planes pitch straight up, trying for

the altitude advantage.

Zone 5 burners.

The F-14 outclimbs the MiG sitting on its tail, full

thruster, it rockets straight up, away from the planet.

Maverick has the advantage. Suddenly, his F-14 runs out of

energy. FUNGUS is the first to call it.

We're ballistic! Ohhhhhh Shit!

The plane backs down on itself, backs into its own smoke as

it flips over, falls away...He catches it, just regains

control, when...A ROAR. He looks up.

SECOND MIG coming down. Right on him. It fills the Canopy!

Instinctive - A Push to miss him, Maverick breaks fast down

into him, a last ditch maneuver, and the airplane

DEPARTS...the roll rates and the pitch rates combine and it

tumbles over the top; the airplane just goes end-over-end.

They are being slammed and rattled all over the

cockpits...bone-jarring, neck-snapping whips. SHRIEKS and

SCREAMS from the airframe. Terriflying?

Ohhh Mother!

Goddamnit, Mav, you really are a

slow learner. Don't worry, Fung,

I've got it.

Fungus is getting his teeth rattled. He's helpless, he has

no controls, there's nothing he can do but hold on.

Don't WORRY!!!?   You've GOT it!!?

Are you CRAZY?

Roger, I've got it.

The plane's gyrations are rattling Fungus's helmet off the

canopy.

You've got it?   Good!  Cause for a

minute there, you had me worried.

It yaws and rolls, starts into a spin.

Now have you got it?  Have you

still got it?

Yawing right.

I know!

Rudder's left, stick's forward.

Swell! Passing ten thousand!

I've got it -- hold on!

Passing 8. Passing 6. Lock your

harness!

I can recover. Hold on!

They're in a progressive spiral, nose low.  The altimeter

unwinds, speed picks up. The G forces are forcing them away

from the axis of spin, jamming Maverick against the

instrument panel at the front of the cockpit.

You with me?

Fungus, also, is jammed to his panel.

Right behind you.

He is closer to the center of spin and less strongly held.

It doesn't do much good, however, he can't control the plane.

The only thing he can reach is the yellow and black loop; the

ejection handle. He reaches for it.

Speed's up to 150.

Fungus's eyes are wide.  The earth grows larger as it rises

towards them. G forces flatten them. They've long since lost

the MiG. Nobody but an idiot would try to follow them in this

maneuver.

5000 feet. Speed two hundred.

Okay.

The earth grows larger.

4500. Critical point.

FUNGUS grabs the ejection handle with both hands.

No! Not again!

What are you talking about,

I'm not losing it again!

The jet is standing on its nose, gaining speed, plunging

towards the ocean.

Gotta go, man.

280, 290, 300 knots.

3,000 feet.  We gotta go, man.

3,000 feet, we gotta go!

You go. I'm staying with it.

I'm gonna go! THREE...TWO...ONE...

Then, just as suddenly, as he's about to pull...Maverick

catches it. The plane responds. They're out of the spin. He

gets control. Fungus sits there dumbly, hands on handle.

Still not believing...

ONE....ONE....ONE...

SEA LEVEL

Maverick stops the tumble, pulls the nose up quickly and the

F-l4 sweeps into level flight no more than a hundred feet

above the deck. He comes up and looks right at Ice. Ice is

down low. He comes around, a MiG-21 all over him like a cheap

suit. A flick, a whip, and Maverick in perfect position,

rolls right in on the MiG. Fungus looks like he just saw

Jesus.

What  in  the  Christ...was that?

He looks at the Mig target set-up in front of him in awe.

Did you plan that? Was all that

something you planned?

Maverick's acquired the target and is all business.

ALL RIGHT, ICE. COME HARD

STARBOARD, THEN EXTEND TO THE EAST.

Fungus is still lividly frazzled.

Because...if that was... Next time

you tell me first.

ROG.

Maverick breaks down, Ice zooms up, breaks in and takes the

MiG the other way. Maverick Yo Yo's in, comes right up behind

the MiG, as the MiG starts acceleration.

Maverick rolls in on Ice and the MiG.

I GOT A WINDER LEFT, BUT NO GOOD

TONE ON IT.

I CAN'T LOSE HIM, CAN YOU GET OFF

A SHOT?

I GOT NO TONE. IT MIGHT GET YOU.

WHAT CHOICE DO I HAVE?   SHOOT IT.

WHEN I SHOOT, YOU BREAK LEFT..3..2

The MiG fires.

HE FIRED, BREAK NOW!

Ice breaks left, drops flares. The MiG's missile follows the

flares. Maverick FIRES. The missile doesn't twitch. It flys

right up the tail pipe of the MiG, the canopy flies off, the

pilot comes out of it, and then the MiG blows up, We go right

through the fire ball. VVVARRRUOOMMM!

He's out! We got him!

The MiG rolls into the ground...KABOOM!  They swoop by the

pilot, hanging in his straps...He watches them, dumbly.

Fungus waves.

What a dope! Maybe they'll

Maverick and Ice join up, light it, stand on their burners

and blast straight for the sun.

MAVERICK'S F-14

Without warning, a triple roll, as the elation hits him.

125.  INT. MAVERICK'S COCKPIT

What is it? What's wrong?

Fungus nervously looks around at his circuit breakers.

Is there something I should know?

Just relax.

Is it the plane?

The plane is fine.

Is it you?

Yeah, I guess it is. We did it! We

did it...Damn! We sure did it!

HELLO MUSTANG, THIS IS MAVERICK.

I'VE GOT A MESSAGE FOR STINGER.

(V.O.)

ROGER, MAVERICK. GO AHEAD.

TELL STINGER MAVERICK HAS GOOD NEWS

AND SOME BAD NEWS. THE GOOD NEWS IS

THAT ICE GOT A MIG. THE BAD NEWS IS

THAT MAVERICK GOT TWO!

He looks over at Ice.

I GOTTA HAVE ONE.

126.  INT. ICE'S COCKPIT

We're low on fuel, Ice.

Ice considers for a moment, then responds.

I know. I know....Aw hell, let's do

it!

127.  INT. MAVERICK'S COCKPIT

You're not supposed to...

But I have to!

Then...shit! Go ahead. I'm right

behind you.

MUSTANG, THIS IS MAVERICK, REQUEST

A FLYBY.

128.  PRI-FLY BRIDGE - (Primary Flight Control)  USS KITTY

HAWK

The Air Boss speaks to Maverick over the UHF. The Admiral,

the XO and other officers watch and listen.

NEGATIVE, GHOST RIDER, THE

PATTERN'S FULL.

MUSTANG, THIS IS GHOST RIDER.

REQUEST A FLYBY FOR TWO.

Who is that guy?

Mitchell...

...Likes to break at 600, 'stead of

300 knots. The Air Boss hates him.

One time, he came over the deck at

two hundred, shakes the shit out of

the bridge. Lifted Johnson right

off his feet.

129.  INT. MAVERICK'S F-14

He glances over at Ice, who gives him thumbs up.

BOSS, YOU BETTER CLEAR IT OUT,

130.  INT. PRI-FLY BRIDGE

The Admiral looks out over the water and smiles.

TEN MILES ASTERN, BOSS. HOW ABOUT

IT?

The Air Boss is livid. He clenches the mike.

MUSTANG TO GHOST RIDER!...

Just then the Admiral pipes up.

Johnson!

Yes, Sir, Admiral?

Give him his flyby.

The Admiral looks at the others, tries to surpress his own

grin. He slides into his (borrowed) command chair, looks into

the wind. On the back of the chair, a clue; his name and

rank:  RADM. Buford Clancy, "BOOMER"

The AIR BOSS burns, but has no choice.

131.  EXT.

KITTY HAWK DAY

Sailors line the deck and search the sky. They crane their

necks from their battle stations, sweating into the sun,

watching for the approach of F-14's. Someone sees it--he

points and SHOUTS. The F-14 appears, and every man stands and

CHEERS.

132. POV -

WE COME SCREAMING IN, 5 FEET OVER THE WATER, throwing up

rooster tails behind. WE SPLIT OFF and ZOOM along each side

of the carrier, at 100 feet and ROLL IT.

133.  INT. PRI-FLY BRIDGE--VVVAAAAABBOOOOM!

It lifts the Air Boss right off his feet. The walls warp,

dust sifts from the overhead. The whole tower just goes BOOM!

Goddamn that guy!"

134.  EXT. FLIGHT DECK

They break at 500 knots. Ice is first down over the ramp,

waved in.  The F-14 comes in a little rocky. It bounces hard

but grabs the wire, then jerks to a sudden halt. The sailors

CHEER AND APPLAUD, throwing fists of victory into the air,

straining to get a look at Ice as the crew directs his plane

off to the side. Opening the canopy, Ice and Slider unstrap.

Stinger and the others are there. Guys are climbing up,

climbing all over the airplane. They're already painting a

MiG on the side, and they're looking at Ice in awe.

135.  POV - MAVERICK - THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD - AS HE LANDS

He catches the wire, the view slams down toward the deck as

the plane arrests, then comes up...He releases the cockpit

and can hear the ROAR OF THE CROWD...

136.  EXT. FLIGHT DECK

He swings the nose around past Ice's. Ice's plane is covered

in colored jerseys as the ground crew pulls him out.

Maverick's plane swings towards the PRI-FLY BRIDGE. Pilots in

flightsuits pour from the deck hatch APPLAUDING...

137.  HE CUTS HIS ENGINES AS THE GROUND CREW SWARMS

As Maverick and Fungus climb down, they see their wingmen on

the deck. Ice is looking in Maverick's direction. His face is

inscrutable. Maverick gets mobbed, but pushes over to Ice.

They stare at each other for a moment, eye to eye even as

they are buffeted by the crowd. Finally, Ice breaks...a grin.

I guess I owe you one.

You don't owe me anything.

You saved our lives. You did it!

We did it.

You're a hell of a flyer.

No. You can be mine!

Now Ice laughs. Nobody's ever gonna win on this one. But Ice

smiles at him...It's now a running joke between them.

Whatever you say, Commander.

He and Slider snap to and proudly salute. Maverick

hesitates, then returns it. As Ice and Slider snap it off, it

turns into the pilot's salute, they give them the bird.

Maverick and Fungus laugh and return the compliment.

As they are mobbed by sailors, Maverick is elated to see two

familiar figures: Hollywood and Wolfman turn from their

battle damaged TOMCAT on the forward elevator as it sinks out

of sight below decks.

138.  EXT. FLIGHT DECK

What happened to you?

He got our radio, and an engine. We

were lucky to make it back.

Not luck. Skill.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Stinger rushes up, grabs Ice and Maverick in a bear hug.

MiG killers! You name it, boy.

Sky's the limit. You name it. A

medal. Anything you want. Anything.

MiG killers!  What else is there?

Maverick grins, turns away from them.  He he looks out, at

the dying sun glinting over the sea. He thinks how beautiful

it is out here! Fungus grabs him from behind.

You hear that? Anything we want.

Anything...Well???

Well what?

What do you want?

What do I want?

What do you want?

Any more MiGs?

Stinger shakes his head no.

They don't seem to want to come up

anymore. There's nothing on the

scopes. In fact, everybody's

denying the incident ever happened.

So...what is it?  What do you want?

Maverick turns away, considering the options.

139.  EXT. FLIGHT DECK - ANOTHER ANGLE

Another Tomcat rolls up to park nearby. He looks

at the plane. Over the deck LOUDSPEAKER, comes the

final call to the F-14:

OKAY, GENTLEMEN. YOU CAN CUT YOUR

ENGINES...YOU HAVE ARRIVED....

WWHHHEEEEZZZZEEERRRRRUUUUUMMMMMMMMM...

AS THE ENGINES FADE, SO DOES THE PICTURE.

FADE IN - WEEKS LATER

140.  EXT. DAY - FLIGHT LINE MIRAMAR - TOPGUN

Viper, Jester and others walk out of hangar to watch a wing

return.

141A.  EXT. MIRAMAR RUNWAY - DAY

THEIR POV. Suddenly an F-14 breaks, ROARS in over the field

inverted, a hundred feet off the ground.

142.  FLIGHT LINE MIRAMAR - DAY

Who's the hell is that?

Three guesses.

Well, he's in trouble and he didn't

even get here yet.

Jester looks over at an admiral, who steps out of a staff

car, squints up at the swooping plane, turns, barks an order

to his driver, jumps in the car and SLAMS the door, the car

takes off.

143.  EXT. MIRAMAR RUNWAY - DAY - FURTHER DOWN THE RUNWAY

MP jeeps - lights flashing, pull out and head for the flight

line.

Come on.

They head for the hangar

144.  OVER THE END OF THE RUNWAY

The jet breaks at 500 knots and sets down neatly on the

tarmac. The rest of his flight follows in perfect formation.

145.  EXT. MIRAMAR RUNWAY - DAY - MAVERICK'S JET -PULLING UP

He unbuckles his straps, takes his helmet off. He looks over

at the approaching caravan.

I think they know we're here.

Let me do the talking.

Oh, no. You did the flying, I'll do

the talking!

He stands up in the cockpit, gives a snappy salute.

Why Admiral....How really good it

is to see you!

Maverick turns away. As he backs down the steps, a jeep

screeches up, doors slam open, footsteps.

Who's in charge here?

I am.

He's answered automatically, but now it hits him. He knows

the voice. He turns.

HIS POV - CHARLIE, HANDS ON HIPS

Not for long, you keep that up.

He hops down, stands there speechless, grinning happily at

her.

Well?

Well what?

You got your F-14, you got Top Gun,

you got your MiGs....You're our new

Top Gun instructor...Now what?

Oh...I'll think of something...

What are you doing here?

I live here, remember?

Right on the flight line?

He's got her on that one. She laughs.

Everybody's got to be somewhere.

Maybe your somewhere's with me...

He puts his arms around her. Self-conscious, she pulls away,

a little embarrassed to show this on the flight line. He

laughs.

That's okay. I always look forward

to a challenge.

Now she laughs back and puts her arms around him. She kisses

him and now she doesn't give a damn who sees it.

TOP GUN

Chip Proser

Hollywood

April 19, 1985

