<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

To Sleep With Anger

INT. ROOM - DAY  (EFX)

GIDEON, a strongly built elderly black man, is sitting at a

table. On the table is a large bowl of fruit. A crocheted

tablecloth hangs over the side of the table. Gideon is

dressed in a white suit and wearing a pair of well-polished

wing-tip shoes. His hat almost covers his eyes, which are two

points of greenish coals. The fruit in the bowl is engulfed

in flames.

The flames look as if they are DRIPPING from the tablecloth

to the floor. Gideon's shoes start to SMOULDER. His shoes

BURST INTO FLAMES which spread up his pants leg. His head

falls forward as if he had suddenly fallen to sleep. He

twiddles his thumbs very slowly in a circle. He crosses his

legs as if to get comfortable.

The camera moves to a CLOSE UP of his burning shoes. The

image of his feet begins to appear through his shoes; the

flames fade; the background changes as we

EXT. GIDEON'S BACKYARD - DAY

Gideon's bare feet are resting on reddish dry earth. Gideon

is sitting in his backyard under a fruit tree with a Bible

resting in his hands.

His house is a small, neatly painted bungalow in South

Central Los Angeles. Corn, tomatoes, other vegetables grow in

the yard. Chickens scratch around.

He slowly awakens; his hands are trembling. He looks around

and sees the chickens. He looks up at the sky and sighs, with

some relief.

SUNNY, Gideon's grandson, five years old, has been watching

him from the back window of the house. He leaves the window.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

DOLLY SHOT OF SUNNY

Sunny peeps in the workroom. Through the crack in the door, a

Woman waves to Sunny.

INT. WORKROOM - DAY

The room is nearly filled with pregnant women and their

husbands. SUZIE, Gideon's wife, late 60's or early 70's, a

picture of health, is giving a last bit of instruction before

the class ends. Some of the people are already preparing to

leave.

Somewhere in the room a Male Voice booms out.

There is a bit of LAUGHTER as all start putting away their

things.

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

Gideon looks over at the chickens, scratching around in the

garden. He calls to them, but they don't respond. He puts his

shoes on and walks towards the back door of the house.

Entering the house, he stops and waits inside the door

peeping out. In a sort of devilish manner he talks to

himself.

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

Shot of the backyard. Nothing. Suddenly, with the grace and

suspicion of alley cats, kids jump over Gideon's back fence,

look around timidly, and start climbing up his fruit tree.

Gideon walks down the steps slowly while humming in a deep

voice. He turns the water on and walks over to the tree,

trapping the kids. Dangling legs, hanging from the tree, try

to scurry up the tree to safety. Gideon sprays the tree with

water. Wet kids fall out of the tree and in one motion leap

the fence. Gideon cuts the water off and slaps the dirt off

his hands. He is quite pleased with himself.

EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAY

One of the wet kids is watching Gideon as he goes back inside

the house. The boy signals the others who slowly follow in

single file. They jump the fence and climb back up the tree.

They let their half-eaten fruit fall to the ground.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Suzie opens a letter and a picture of a baby falls out. Suzie

looks at the picture before reading the letter.

She tries to find a place for it among the other baby

pictures that cover the entire mirror on the dresser. Gideon

comes in and starts to undress.

RHONDA, Gideon's granddaughter, 13 years old, comes out of

the bathroom.

Everyone notices the worried look on Gideon's face.

Sunny is asleep on the sofa with a half-eaten apple ready to

fall out of his hand.

EXT. MRS. BAKER'S BACKYARD - DAY

SKIP BAKER, who is thirteen, crawls out of his pigeon cage,

holding two birds that he throws up in the air. He climbs

upon the garage roof and throws rocks at the birds to keep

them flying. He WHISTLES and YELLS at them.

CLOSE UP OF BIRDS FLYING

As the birds circle Skip's house, they do backward rolls and

death grips. Skip throws more rocks to keep them flying. The

rocks land on Gideon's roof.

The SOUND of a person trying to learn how to play a TRUMPET

breaks the pleasant SOUNDS of the pigeons popping their wings

and flying in circles over the house.

INT. MRS. BAKER'S HOUSE, RODNEY'S BEDROOM - DAY

RODNEY BAKER is about nine. He stands next to a shaded

window, trying to finger the right valves on his trumpet. He

tries to hit a high note, but only succeeds in making an

awful screeching sound.

EXT. MRS. BAKER'S HOUSE - DAY

A group of kids walking by Rodney's window shout insulting

things about his horn playing.

INT. GIDEON'S KITCHEN - DAY

Suzie is standing over an egg that just fell on the floor.

The SCREECHING SOUND of the trumpet from next door is

interrupted by the doorbell. Suzie cannot decide on what to

do, to clean the egg up or answer the door. The doorbell

keeps RINGING.

EXT. FRONT PORCH - DAY

Two uniformed Police Officers stand impatiently at the door.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Suzie invites OFFICER SCOTT and OFFICER DAVIS in. Both men

are white and are in their mid-twenties. Officer Davis does

most of the questioning.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Gideon is shaving with a straight razor and humming to

himself, obviously in a good mood. Suzie sticks her head in.

The good mood that Gideon was in dissolves quickly. Gideon

wipes the soap off his face and throws the towel down. Suzie

leaves. Gideon brushes his hair and adjusts his bathrobe.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Gideon comes in, still adjusting his bathrobe.

Suzie returns to the kitchen to clean the egg on the floor.

Officer Scott keeps her in view.

Suzie looks at Scott for a moment and goes into the kitchen.

Gideon is about to lose control. Davis heads off the

confrontation.

Gideon stands in the doorway watching the Police go down the

steps.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT

There is soft knocking on the door. Suzie enter frame wearing

a robe.

Suzie opens the door. BABE BROTHER, Gideon's youngest son,

about 31, handsome, wearing an expensive suit, comes in,

beating the cold off of him and blowing in his hands.

The camera follows Babe Brother. He passes Gideon's room

where Gideon is asleep, snoring loudly.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Suzie and Babe Brother enter the bedroom where Sunny is

sleeping. Suzie gives Babe Brother a blanket to wrap Sunny up

in.

Babe Brother gives his mother a good-night kiss. Gideon comes

to the door.

He reaches for Babe Brother but Suzie comes between them.

She pushes Babe Brother away. Babe Brother walks away,

staring back at his father.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - SAME NIGHT

Gideon is lying in bed. Suzie gets in beside him.

INT. BABE BROTHER'S BEDROOM - MORNING

The bedroom is tastefully furnished with modern art and

paintings by Barns.

Babe Brother wakes up with Sunny standing in the doorway

looking at him. It takes Babe Brother some time to fully wake

up.

Finally he sits reluctantly on the side of the bed and Sunny

comes over and sits next to him, trying to get his weary

father interested in his remote-control racing car.

Sunny quietly gets up and follows his car out of the room.

INT. BABE BROTHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Babe Brother, having showered but still wearing his pajamas,

drags himself to the kitchen table where his wife LINDA has a

huge coffee mug with the inscription, "I'm the boss", waiting

for him.

Linda is about thirty years old and materially oriented like

her husband. She is wearing a conservatively cut business

dress.

Sunny stops playing with his car and gets himself an empty

cup. Babe Brother is about to pour him some of his coffee

when Linda objects.

Sunny pleads with her in silence but Linda refuses to yield.

Linda leaves the table but stops for a moment and looks down

at her husband.

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

A SLOW CLOSE UP DOLLY SHOT OF SUZIE'S HANDS DROPPING SEEDS IN

THE GROUND.

Gideon is raking out the chicken coop. He puts the rake down

and walks over to the garden and watches Suzie plant seeds

for a while.

EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAY

OLD JOHN is pushing his cart up the alley. Old John's face is

washed so clean that it shines. His pants are dirty and his

cart is full of odds and ends of no value. He looks to be

about seventy and fit. Old John throws a sack on Gideon's

fence.

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

Suzie,is bent over a plant that she is tying to a stick. She

looks up and sees the sack on the fence. A smile appears on

her face. She goes over to the fence.

EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAY

Old John is about to take up his journey when Suzie sticks

her head over the fence.

Gideon sticks his head over the fence.

Suzie leaves the two men talking.

Suzie sticks her head over the fence and hands a bag of red

tomatoes to Old John.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

HIGH ANGLE SHOTS

off in the distance, a man is cutting his lawn. Gideon and

Suzie are working in their garden. Other couples working

their gardens. Two young men are working on their car, which

is creating a lot of smoke. A group of girls are sitting on a

porch trying to sing while one of the smaller ones is trying

to learn a step.

Skip is on the roof with his radio listening to rap music

while his birds circle over head. From time to time he throws

a rock at them.

INT. DELIVERY ROOM - DAY

THE CAMERA IS OUTSIDE OF THE ROOM. THE SCENE IS SHOT THROUGH

THE PARTLY OPEN DOOR.

It is hard to see the woman giving birth. There are people

blocking the view of the camera. Suzie is facing the camera

and the woman has her back to the camera.

Suddenly the baby begins to SCREAM.

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

A sack appears on Gideon's fence. The sound of Old John's

cart is heard rattling off.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

Suzie, Gideon, JUNIOR (Gideon's elder son, 35 years old and

dark skinned), PAT (Junior's wife, who is expecting, about

32) and Rhonda are all seated next to one another in the same

row. The PREACHER is knee-deep in water. He is baptizing a

group of young people. The members of the church are singing

"Take Me To The Water". An Elderly Man who can hardly walk

without help is being led down to the pool.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Suzie, Gideon, Junior, Pat and Rhonda are all seated at the

table eating. Babe Brother is standing up. He looks in the

pot but doesn't find it to his liking. Junior is irritated at

his brother.

Junior laughs at Babe Brother's story.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Babe Brother's car, a new Audi, is parked out front.

Linda is in the front seat reading a magazine while Sunny is

asleep in the back seat. Babe Brother sticks his head in the

window.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Suzie, Gideon, Junior, Pat and Rhonda are still at the table

eating.

INT. CAR - DAY

A dirt rock HITS the front windshield. Linda lets out a

little scream. Babe Brother looks around. Skip is on top of

the roof next door.

INT. FEED STORE - DAY

Gideon is looking at the price of laying mash. He digs his

hand into a barrel of scratch. Sunny also digs his hand in

the barrel.

Suzie is looking at new young plants. She gives the

vegetables a thorough going-over.

Gideon is standing in line waiting to place his order.

While at the counter, Gideon turns and looks around at the

prices of different items. Suzie brings her plants and puts

them on the counter.

INT. CAR - DAY

Sunny looks at the Little Girl in the next car; she has her

mouth pressed against the window. She is missing a tooth.

Gideon is behind the wheel while Suzie holds her new plants

up to the sun, carefully looking at them.

Sunny, seated in the back, pokes a hole in the sack of feed.

The mash trickles to the floor as if from an hour glass.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Suzie is sitting in front of a table full of jars. Each jar

has a shoot and is half-filled with water. Gideon is on his

knees trying to fix the hinge to a cabinet. Sunny is sitting

almost under him listening to him tell stories. Sunny has a

coffee can full of marbles.

Gideon takes a sip of water.

Sunny does not get the humor of the story. He is more

interested in picking up his marbles that Gideon's foot

kicked over.

A strong wind causes the broom handle to knock against the

china teapot, KNOCKING IT TO THE FLOOR. Suzie stops Sunny

from trying to help pick up the pieces.

Suzie looks down sadly at her broken tea pot.

EXT. APPLE ORCHARD - DAY

The trees are barren, which gives them an unfriendly look. As

we LOOK at the ground, a man's distorted shadow stops in the

frame.

EXT. FRONT PORCH - DAY

A shadow of a man appears on Gideon's porch. The camera tilts

up to HARRY MENTION, a very dark-looking, ageless old man

carrying several boxes held together by a cord. He looks

exhausted from his journey. He looks in his address book and,

satisfied that he reached the right house, he rings the

doorbell.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Suzie comes to the front door; she recognizes Harry right

away. She invites him in. Harry stumps his feet on the porch

several times and then enters.

Gideon comes in, wiping his hands. Sunny, carrying the broom,

follows behind.

Harry is more interested in the boy, but Sunny doesn't want

to come near Harry. It is Gideon's arm that is keeping him

within close range of Harry.

Sunny, playing with the broom, accidentally touches Harry's

shoe with it. Harry hides his anger about being touched with

the broom. Harry takes the broom from Sunny and spits on the

bottom of it.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

The bedroom door to Harry's room is cracked open. Peering

through the cracked door, we SEE Harry asleep on his pallet.

His back is turned to the camera. It is dead silent. There

does not seem to be any sign of life. On the floor is a plate

that has water in it. It looks like it is for a dog.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Suzie is peeling potatoes and Gideon is ironing.

Without anyone being aware, Harry has been standing in the

doorway for some time.

The doorbell rings and Gideon goes to answer it.

Gideon comes back with Junior, Pal and Rhonda.

Harry and Junior shake hands, but Rhonda gives Harry only a

nod of her head and a smile.

Pat, who is pregnant, attempts to shake hands with Harry, but

is forced to withdraw her hand because of a sudden pain in

her stomach.

Junior feels her stomach. Pat again tries to shake Harry's

hand and again gets a jolt from her stomach. She finds a

chair to sit down in.

The SOUND of rocks hitting the roof causes everyone to look

up.

INT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - BATHROOM - DAY

Harry is wiping off his face with a washcloth. He stares at

himself in the mirror for a long time. The sudden sound of

the boy next door starting to play his trumpet startles him.

He smiles at the trumpeter's efforts.

He wrings the wash cloth out. A reddish oil-like liquid DRIPS

into the face bowl.

EXT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

A few of the houses have lights on. Suddenly, Gideon's

rooster starts to CROW. A dog starts to bark and a garbage

can is knocked over. Bedroom lights in almost all the houses

in the neighborhood pop on. The voices of neighbors

complaining are heard.

INT. BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Harry is just waking up. He listens to the voices of Suzie

and Gideon as they get ready for church.

INT. FRONT ROOM - MORNING

Gideon is paging through the Bible as he stands by the door,

waiting for Suzie who is watering her plants. Harry comes in.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

Gideon and Suzie are stepping off the porch. Harry is

standing behind the screen door.

Gideon and Suzie get in Junior's car. Junior, Pat and Rhonda

wave to Harry as the car pulls away.

INT. LIVING HOUSE - DAY

IT IS A TRACKING SHOT, FOLLOWING HARRY THROUGH THE HOUSE.

Harry looks through Gideon's and Suzie's private things. He

looks at the baby pictures that fill the mirror. He reads

Suzie's letters that are dated years ago. In one of the

letters, he finds a picture of a man standing behind a

plough. "Uncle Joe after Ella's death" is written on the

back. A picture of a mule holds his interest. He looks at it

for a long time and carries it with him as he continues his

search.

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

Harry slowly walks along the rows in Suzie's garden. He

stands by the chicken cage. Suddenly, the chickens start to

run about and CACKLE as if a dog had gotten in.

Harry turns from the chicken coop. He stands still. Sunny is

hiding behind a bush.

Sunny steps around the bush. Harry looks at Sunny with such

concentration that Sunny takes a step backward as if getting

ready to defend himself.

MRS. BAKER, a black woman in her early thirties, comes out on

the back porch. She shakes out a rug. She stops shaking the

rug and stares at Harry.

Harry becomes aware of Mrs. Baker's stare. He comes to

himself and smiles at her.

INT. GIDEON'S KITCHEN - DAY

Harry and Babe Brother are playing cards while Linda watches

and Sunny plays by himself on the floor. In the sink is a

newspaper full of bloody feathers. A small flame is under a

pot on the stove. Harry looks at the chicken in the pot and

sits back down.

Harry takes his knife, a crab apple switch, out. It has a

rabbit foot attached to it. Harry cleans his fingernail with

the knife. Sunny is interested in the rabbit foot. He reaches

for the knife.

Harry is aware that Babe Brother is interested in the knife.

After cleaning his last fingernail, he hands the knife to

Babe Brother.

Harry looks at the cards in his hand. He smiles to himself.

Harry looks again at the chicken that he is boiling.

Linda picks up a card and looks at it. There is a naked woman

on the back.

Sunny is busy playing in the curtains.

The SOUND of Gideon and Suzie arriving makes them scurry to

get the cards put away. Harry puts his knife away just as

Suzie and Gideon enter. Linda feels a little embarrassed.

Gideon and Suzie are surprised to see Linda. They don't know

what to say.

EXT. MRS. BAKER'S BACKYARD - DAY

Rodney walks around in the yard BLOWING his trumpet as loud

as he can. The SOUND of the trumpet frightens Skip's birds.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Gideon is repairing the pipes under the face bowl. Harry is

leaning against the door.

Gideon takes the pipe off. It has rotted. Gideon cannot

believe it.

Off-screen, Rodney starts to practice on his HORN.

INT. BABE BROTHER'S LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Babe Brother is sitting with Sunny by the screen door blowing

giant bubbles. The bubbles drift past Linda, who is sitting

at the table with real estate papers all over the table. She

is talking on the phone with a client and signals them to

stop disturbing her.

Babe Brother sends more bubbles floating by, causing her to

shake the water off her papers while she talks to a first

time buyer.

She hangs up the phone.

Babe Brother is lost in his thoughts. He stares down at his

hands resting on his knees. He picks up the telephone.

INT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAY

Junior is on the phone with Babe Brother. Pat crosses in

front of the camera shaking her head in a negative manner.

Babe Brother's voice is just audible.

Junior turns to his wife, who is off-camera.

EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - HOT AFTERNOON

Harry and Gideon are walking along a railroad track. The sun

is blinding. The heat makes the asphalt Appear to turn into a

lake off in the distance. Gideon appears exhausted; beads of

sweat continually form on his forehead. He fans himself with

his hat. Harry is unaffected by the hot temperature.

Gideon looks down the tracks. A bowl of dust stirs off in the

distance. The hot temperature makes the tracks appear liquid.

EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - HOT AFTERNOON (EFFECT)

The tracks begin to twist and bend. Off in the distance,

faint images of men laying track to a song.

EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - HOT AFTERNOON

Gideon is standing with his hat in his hand. His posture is

that of an extremely old man.

He wipes the sweat from his hat band.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Suzie is peeling apples while Sunny, standing next to her,

catches peelings in his mouth. Pat is sitting next to the

window. She is uncomfortable. She loosens her pants, giving

her stomach more room. Rhonda is leaning over the back of the

chair with her arms around Pat's neck. They are in

silhouette.

INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Suzie knocks on the door. Harry comes to the door still

buttoning his shirt.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Gideon in the background in the kitchen washing off the

vegetables. Suzie and HATTIE are sitting at the table. Harry

comes in and is surprised to see Hat tie. Hattie is in her

late sixties but looks well. She makes a conscious effort to

dress plainly.

Hattie has a nervous condition that causes her to squint from

time to time. Gideon comes in from the kitchen.

EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF HOUSE - DAY

M.C. slams the door to his car and hurries up the steps,

leaving HERMAN, in spite of his bad condition, to get out of

the car the best he can. The car door almost knocks poor

Herman over. M.C. seems rather youthful because of his energy

and awkwardness. He is a large muscular man.

Herman is a dried-up man with nothing, not even a shadow. He

has a racking COUGH.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

M.C. gives Gideon a bear hug, lifting him off his feet. On

seeing Suzie, he drops Gideon and rushes over to lift her up

off her feet.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Herman is still trying to get out of the car.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

M.C. lifts Suzie off the ground twice. He runs over to Hattie

who does not want to be handled, tries to withdraw but M.C.

forces her to her feet and gives a big bear hug. Hattie has a

series of squinting attacks. M.C. squints in return.

There is a TAPPING on the door.

Herman hobbles in and, after a minute of COUGHING, a smile

forms on his face.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Suzie, Gideon and Hattie are seated at the table while M.C.

bounces from one end of the table to the other. One moment he

is on his knees and next moment he is leaning over someone to

flick his ashes in the ashtray on the table. Hattie hates it

when he comes near her.

Harry and Herman sit together in the corner chewing on

starch.

Suzie is surprised.

Gideon brings a fresh pot of coffee. Gideon tries to signal

M.C. to stop harassing Hattie. M.C. leans over Hattie again

to use the ashtray.

Harry is helping Herman to his feet. Herman starts to cough.

They come over and join the rest of the crowd at the table.

Harry seats Herman next to Gideon and pours Herman a cup of

coffee. He puts the sugar and cream in the coffee for Herman.

Suzie comes back with Joe's number and hands it to Hattie.

Hattie is angered.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

The children of the women in Suzie's natural birth group are

huddled together SINGING "Ashiine Ca Chew". The voices of the

women in the next room are audible. The kids go outside to

sit on the porch.

INT. HOUSE, WORK ROOM - DAY

Most of the women have their newborns with them and are

engaging in talk about how their other children had to adjust

and etc.

A young white mother, REBECCA WILSON, with both her children,

a four year old and one just a few months old, talks with a

deep southern accent.

EXT. FRONT YARD - DAY

A mother leaves with her baby wrapped in a blanket. The kids

surround her, wanting to see the baby.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAY

Pat is looking at a book of baby names. Harry passes the door

and stops.

Pat beams with joy because Harry recognizes the important

work she is doing.

Harry looks at the baby picture pasted over the mirror. He

takes the picture of his children from his old black dusty

wallet and compares the faces of his kids with those on the

mirror. He talks to himself more than to Pat.

Pat watches him and loses herself in what he is doing. She

responds automatically

EXT. GIDEON'S BACK PORCH - DAY

Junior is taking the back door off to paint. Harry helps him

carry the door and lay it on a saw horse.

INT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Rhonda is in the background washing dishes. Pat and Junior

are sitting at the dining room table, arguing.

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

Gideon and Sunny are in the garden digging for worms. The

chickens

EXT. BALDWIN HILLS LAKE - LATE AFTERNOON

Gideon is sitting on a rock by the lake. His image is

reflected in the lake. He is asleep. Sunny is putting new

bait on one of the reels and with a whip of the pole, he

casts to the center of the lake. He leans against a tree.

Sunny looks at his sleeping grandfather. Gideon has his pant

legs rolled up. His socks have lost their elastic. His head

is resting on his chest.

Sunny goes near the water.

Sunny looks back at his grandfather, who appears to be

asleep.

There is one fish in the bucket.

EXT. LAKE - SUNSET

WIDE ANGLE SHOT FROM HIGH ANGLE

Gideon and Sunny are sitting next to each other. The lake

reflects the sky: a deep red. The eerie sound of a long train

whistle breaks the silence.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Harry, Babe Brother and Linda come in after staying out all

night. Linda looks as though she is about to fall asleep

standing up. She awakes and looks at Harry. There is dislike

in her stare. Suzie and Gideon notice Linda fading away.

Sunny comes in carrying his night-clothes folded neatly. He

stands next to Linda. Harry, in a mild but demanding way,

ushers Babe Brother out of the door.

Babe Brother seems all too happy to obey Harry. After Harry

closes the door behind Babe Brother, he turns with a wide

smile.

Harry flops down on the couch and kicks his shoes off.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Suzie and Gideon are getting the food ready while Harry,

wearing a shirt that looks like it is made of shiny

snakeskin, sits in a darkened corner of the room, cutting his

fingernails with his knife.

The door bell rings and Harry slowly walks over to answer the

door. Suzie puts the punch bowl down and hurries over to meet

the first guests, FRED JENKINS, an elderly black man whom she

hasn't seen in years, and Esme Jenkins, his wife.

More people arrive, bottle-necking the doorway. Gideon helps

the Jenkinses to a chair. Hattie comes with her brother

MARSH, who is not too pleased to see Harry. OKRA TATE, an

elderly black man with dark circles under his eyes, comes in

limping badly with an old Polaroid camera hanging from his

neck.

Babe Brother, Linda, Junior, Pat and Rhonda, who is holding

Sunny's hand, all come in together. M.C. drags Herman through

the door coughing. FLIM ANDERSON and his son DOUG are

followed by the twins, WILLIAM and LOVIRAY NORWOOD, who are

in their late 70's.

Babe Brother leaves Linda standing by herself to be next to

Harry.

Zenia Dent, an elderly white woman with a strong Southern

accent, arrives with her husband, Howard Dent, a black man,

who is in a wheelchair. The Twins and Howard are the center

of attention.

Okra comes over and whispers into Harry's ear. Okra leaves

through the front door. Okra comes back in with a bag. Harry,

Babe Brother, M.C. and Herman follow Okra to the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Okra sets the bag on the table and steps back to allow Harry

to unveil the bottle of corn liquor.

A crowd starts to gather around.

M.C. starts to hand out tea cups while Harry pours everyone a

drink.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

An attractive Woman, in her younger days a knockout, puts on

a record and starts to pop her fingers to the music as she

moves towards the center of the floor dancing by herself,

inviting anyone bold enough to join her.

A group of Men who haven't seen each other in years are

asking questions about news of old friends.

Okra is trying to get his camera working.

Herman is following M.C. through the crowd with his hand

resting on M.C.'s shoulder as if he were a blind person. His

racking COUGH is frightening.

An older couple dancing attract the attention of the crowd.

The man is wearing Stacy Adams shoes polished to see one's

face in them. He gives expression to his moves as if he and

the woman are talking with their bodies.

Junior and Pat try to bring in something more modern to outdo

the older couple.

Herman corners Hattie, trying to get her to sing.

Harry stops the music.

Hattie has started her nervous twitch again. She is so mad

that she bites her lip to keep from exploding.

Harry signals an old man, PERCY, to start playing his guitar.

Percy starts to play but Hattie doesn't join him. He looks to

Harry for a sign of what to do. Hattie walks away.

Percy starts to SING by himself but someone puts a record on,

interrupting his singing. People are back to dancing.

A YOUNGER WOMAN is dancing with an OLDER MAN with such vigor,

forcing the old man to try to keep up, that people grow

concerned. People near him try to make him slow down but his

pride forces him to be ridiculous.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Linda sits with Sunny and Rhonda watching TV.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT

The noise has gotten louder, everyone talking at the top of

his voice.

Gideon is busy going around to everyone seeing if everything

is okay. Gideon and Suzie have worked up a sweat trying to

attend to everyone's needs.

Linda rejoins the party. She moves through the crowd and sees

Babe Brother standing next to Harry. She is disappointed and

stays at a distance.

Harry is with a group of people. Marsh tries to get Harry's

attention.

Harry stares into Marsh's eyes, then looks him over from head

to toe.

Harry turns his back on Marsh. Marsh stands there looking at

Harry's profile. He turns and walks away.

The record ends. The Younger Woman and the Older Man wait for

the next record.

Linda is standing by herself. She watches Babe Brother and

Harry walk towards the kitchen. Pat comes to talk to her.

Okra, holding his camera, all of the attachments in one hand

and a glass in his other hand, tries to offer Hattie a drink.

Hattie pushes him away. The drink spills on him. She turns

and walks away. He follows her.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Marsh sits in a chair opposite Harry. Babe Brother stands

behind Harry. Harry, knowing that Marsh is going to bring up

unpleasant things of the past, feels the need to get rid of

Babe Brother.

Babe Brother is reluctant to leave, but Harry gives him a

nudge. He goes looking for Linda.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT

Gideon, Babe Brother, and Linda go outside.

EXT. FRONT YARD - NIGHT

The sounds of the party drift out from the house as Gideon,

Linda and Babe Brother talk.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT

Okra is trying to get enough light for his old Polaroid

camera. M.C. takes a shade off a lamp and holds it next to

the Twins, nearly blinding them.

M.C. is still holding the naked lamp while Okra tries to take

pictures.

INT KITCHEN - NIGHT

EXT. FRONT YARD - NIGHT

Gideon, Babe Brother and Linda are just standing, facing one

another. Suzie comes out on the porch.

Linda gives Babe Brother a jab with her elbow. His hand

reaches out to Gideon.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT

M.C. and Herman put the unshaded lamps next to Hattie so okra

can get a better picture. Percy starts to play his guitar.

Herman stands behind Percy.

Percy starts to play an old religious number and Hattie

STARTS TO SING. Everything stops for a moment as her VOICE

fills the room.

Then most of the guests pick up and join in. M.C. moves the

lamp next to Percy so Okra can take his picture.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Marsh and Harry are getting quite loud in their argument. It

has become a kind of controlled anger.

M.C. and Okra come in wanting to take pictures. Marsh is

pretty mad about them intruding. M.C. sets the naked lamp in

front of Marsh, on the floor, almost between his legs.

Before Okra can get his camera set to shoot, Marsh leaves.

Harry smiles as if he had won a major victory. Herman flops

down in the empty chair and starts to COUGH.

Suddenly Suzie and Gideon burst into the kitchen holding up

one of the twins, Loviray. They carry the twin towards

Herman's seat. Herman is slow to react. Herman gets up very

slow. Finally, they are able to seat the twin.

The twin is holding her throat and PANTING like a fish out of

water. She is in a lot of pain. William, the twin brother, is

standing at the door with a tragic face.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Gideon is trying to get out of bed. He sits on the side of

the bed and starts to COUGH.

INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Harry has his back to the camera, sitting in a chair facing a

wall. He is naked from the waist up. An empty plate is placed

not too far from where he is sitting. He is cutting an apple.

He licks the blade of his knife.

INT. BABE BROTHER'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Babe Brother is asleep. Linda is dressed to go to work. She

throws his suit on the foot of the bed.

He snores louder. She opens the window and pulls back the

cover. The cold air makes him draw up. On walking out, Linda

says in a rather hurt voice:

Babe Brother slowly gets up holding his chest as if his heart

is bothering him.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Gideon tries to put his pants on. He is too weak and sits

back on the bed with his pants only up as far as his knees.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Suzie gets up to turn off the coffee kettle. When the kettle

WHISTLE dies away, the sound of Gideon's VOICE is heard

calling Suzie for help. The sound of his voice frightens her.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Suzie bursts into the room and then moves very slowly to

Gideon, who is sitting on the bed out of breath.

INT. DINING ROOM - EVENING

Suzie and Junior are sitting at the dining room table. Harry,

looking like he has just gotten out of bed, drags himself in.

There is obvious hostility in Junior's tone. Harry senses

Junior's hostility and chooses to ignore it.

Junior stares at Harry. Harry returns Junior's stare and

Junior finds himself embarrassed. Junior looks down at his

pants leg and attempts to fix the crease in his pants by

making a wedge with his fingers and running his fingers along

the old crease.

As Harry walks towards the back door, he looks back at

Junior.

EXT. BACKYARD - EVENING

The pigeons take to the air like an explosion. The chickens

start to CACKLE and run about as Harry reaches for one with

his cane. The SOUND of the boy next door practicing with his

trumpet adds to the bedlam.

Suzie is standing on the steps, shouting to Harry. The noise

of the panicked chickens and the boy playing the trumpet next

door drown out Suzie's voice. Not getting Harry's attention,

she hurries down the steps.

Harry has caught a hen that is SCREAMING her head off. He

looks around and finds Suzie hurrying towards him.

INT. ROOM - NIGHT

Suzie and another woman who will be helping her are asleep.

Suzie is in the chair and the woman is asleep on the floor.

The woman who is in labor is reading a magazine and seems

somewhat bored.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Harry opens the door and slowly walks in. Gideon is asleep.

Harry picks up Gideon's pants from the back of the chair.

Gideon's false teeth fall to the floor.

INT. ROOM - NIGHT

There is a flurry of activity; the woman is contracting.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

The untouched chicken broth sits on the night stand. Gideon

is TALKING in his sleep. Morning light filters through the

window shade. The room takes on a brownish tint. Gideon has

dark rings under his eyes and looks like he has aged

considerably.

INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Harry is reading the Bible. He runs his finger over the print

of the Bible. After reading the passage, he stares at the

empty plate on the floor for what seems like a long time. He

claps the Bible shut, causing a loud NOISE to ECHO through

the house.

EXT. FRONT OF HOUSE - MORNING

Suzie is walking slowly up the steps.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

Suzie raises the window shade and is shocked to see the state

that Gideon is in.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

The room is crowded with people. Suzie is putting Gideon's

shirt on. Harry is leaning against the door. After having put

his shirt on, Suzie puts his house shoes on and directs Babe

Brother and Junior to hold him up while she tucks his shirt

in and puts on his suspenders.

It takes almost everyone to hoist Gideon. Linda and Pat push

the bed and night-stand out of the way as Babe Brother and

Junior struggle to lift Gideon. They almost stumble at the

door. Harry is left standing in the room alone.

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

Harry, Okra and Herman are trying to catch another chicken.

Herman is COUGHING badly and Okra is out of breath.

Harry puts the rooster face to the ground and draws a

straight line. Harry lets the rooster go, but the rooster

stays motionless, unable to move.

Herman hands Harry the ax. Harry is poised over the chicken

with the ax, appreciating the moment. Harry raises the ax.

The SOUND of Rodney starting to practice his trumpet brings

the rooster out of the trance.

Before Harry can react, the rooster jumps away.

A sack drops over the fence. Okra limps over to see what is

in the bag. He uses a stick to open the bag. He doesn't like

what he sees and throws the bag back over the fence.

INT. VETERAN'S HOSPITAL, WARD - DAY

Suzie, Junior and Pat are standing around Gideon's bed. He is

in a room full of old veterans who are apparently nearing the

end.

Two old veterans, one white and the other black, sitting

opposite each other wearing medals, sit in silence staring

into each other's eyes.

A nurse empties an old man's urine bag. The old man doesn't

show any embarrassment about his predicament. Gideon looks at

how the patients are treated.

INT. HERMAN'S ONE ROOM HOUSE - DAY

M.C. is sitting on the bed, reading the job section of the

paper. Herman is putting Vicks Vapo-Rub in a bowl of boiling

water. He covers his head over the bowl with a towel. Okra is

sitting at the table examining his gun. He points it at the

floor, seeing if the sight is straight.

Harry is sitting at the table with Babe Brother. Harry is

showing him how to cheat at cards.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT

A moth flies around the light casting a shadow that floats

over everything. Suzie turns out the kitchen light and then

turns out the dining-room light. She goes to her room and

closes the door, leaving the room dark. A car headlight

passing outside casts a moving pattern that moves along the

wall.

The light reveals Harry's presence standing in the hall

doorway.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

Gideon is being helped up the steps by his sons.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Suzie is holding the door open while Gideon is carried in by

Junior and Babe Brother. Gideon is led to a chair. He still

looks awful.

Harry comes out of the bathroom, having just taken a bath.

Harry seems delighted to see Gideon again.

Harry signals Babe Brother to come over to him.

Harry flops down on the couch. Suzie sets a cup of coffee on

the table for Gideon. Harry looks up from sharpening his

knife on a hand sharpening stone. He spits on it.

Junior stands over Harry's shoulder looking at him sharpening

his knife. Harry feels uncomfortable with Junior standing

behind him. Harry looks up at him.

Suzie sets a cup of coffee in front of Harry.

Junior hands Harry the newspaper. Harry puts the paper under

his foot and trims his toenails with it. Harry is aware of

Junior standing over him.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Junior looks in but Babe Brother is too busy trying to clean

the bathtub to notice anyone. Babe Brother complains to

himself.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Gideon and Suzie are in silhouette against the window.

The SOUND of the boy trying to play his horn next door

startles Gideon. Gideon turns to look out of the window

towards Mrs. Baker's house.

He takes a deep breath and blows it out.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Suzie helps Gideon to undress. Gideon loses hit balance but

catches himself on the side of the bed.

INT. DINING ROOM, JUNIOR'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Junior is putting up a new light fixture. Pat hands him a

tool. Rhonda is washing dishes in the kitchen.

Junior slips on the ladder and the wires touch. There is a

big spark. All the lights in the house go out.

INT. BABE BROTHER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Linda is standing over the stove, sweating as she stirs a hot

pot of boiling soup.

Babe Brother and Harry are seated at the table playing cards.

Sunny is on the floor near his mother. Every time she move,

he follows her. Harry notices Sunny has his shoes on the

wrong foot and adds in a sarcastic way:

Babe Brother looks at Sunny's shoe.

Close to tears, she turns and with exaggerated care, puts the

spoon down and gently puts Sunny in a chair. She starts to

untie his shoes. Sunny stares at her while she keeps wiping

her eyes.

Harry slowly gets to his feet and goes in the other room to

use the phone. Linda watches him go. She is deep in thought.

Babe Brother, attempting to cut the roast before it is ready,

is pushed aside by Linda, who is almost out of control with

rage.

Babe Brother, attempting to forcibly cut a piece of roast,

slings Linda's arm away. His hand accidentally hits her in

the eye.

Linda grabs the fork, poised to strike, but gains control of

herself She looks like a person who is on the verge of having

a breakdown. She goes back to putting the shoes on Sunny.

Babe Brother, feeling sorry, doesn't know what to do. He

automatically picks up the fork and washes it off. Linda

picks up Sunny.

INT. DINING ROOM - BABE BROTHER'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Linda is standing at the door, with a red eye, welcoming

Harry's friends, which seem to be a long line of sickly

people.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Linda is busy serving everyone, running in and out of the

kitchen bringing more things, and removing used plates, etc.

Linda's eye is swollen and discolored. The guests look at

Linda's eye and then cast a naughty-boy glance at Babe

Brother.

Linda stops serving to pay attention to an elderly man, who

deliberately bends one of her spoons. She catches another man

putting a fork in his pocket and an elderly lady putting a

cigarette out in one of her plates.

As she is about to confront the man about pocketing her

spoon, a peal of LAUGHTER forces her to turn around only to

witness a lady knocking over a glass filled with a green

drink with her elbow. The stain spreads across the table

cloth in an even manner like a single wave. She watches it

move from one end of the table to the other.

Harry is seated in the middle. The composition hints at The

Last Supper.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Linda is reading a book to Sunny, who has his coffee can of

marbles emptied on the bed. The NOISE from the party in the

next room is clearly heard. Every time she hears something

CRASHING to the floor, she wrenches. Babe Brother comes in

and stands in the doorway. Linda's eye is still swollen.

Babe Brother closes the door and leaves Linda reading stories

of Brer Rabbit to Sunny. She stops reading to look at him

playing marbles on the bed. She smiles.

EXT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - DAY

Five weighty Women, dressed in church robes, and the Preacher

walk up Gideon's steps.

Suzie invites the church members in.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAY

Gideon is asleep. The church members gather around his bed.

The Preacher puts his hand on the foot of the bed and

discovers that there is something strange under the covers.

Suzie looks at him and lifts the covers at the foot of the

bed. Gideon's feet are resting on dead leaves.

The Preacher opens his Bible and reads silently. The choir

HUMS and begin to sway. Gideon's SNORING is very competitive.

The choir becomes louder. Gideon starts to TALK in his sleep.

Suzie is alarmed.

CLOSE UP GIDEON'S EAR.

THE SOUND OF A TRAIN WHISTLE IS HEARD.

INT. PHOTO STUDIO, 1930 - DAY (DREAM EFX)

A lady steps upon the stage which has different backdrops.

She is the same lady in a photo that Gideon has hanging in

one of the kid's rooms. The photographer, who is off-screen,

asks about the background.

The woman shakes her head.

A large picture of the Mississippi appears behind the lady.

It changes from a painted backdrop to a moving picture. There

is a storm developing off in the distance. The SOUND of

thunder is heard. The picture in the background then changes

to a boy on a mule.

EXT. WET DIRT ROAD - DAY (RAINING) (DREAM EFX)

The boy on the gray mule doesn't have a shirt on. A light

mist like rain covers him. Gideon walks along the picket

fence towards the boy on the mule.

Ahead of Gideon seems to be a puddle but as he approaches, he

discovers that it is an abyss. The boy and the mule on the

other side fade away. Everything FADES TO BLACK.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAY

The Preacher turns a page in the Bible. Gideon has his mouth

open like a fish trying to get air. The Choir continues to

SING. The Preacher gets down on his knees and holds Gideon's

hand; he bows his head. The Choir stops singing. The Bessie

Smith recording of "Muddy Water" is coming from somewhere in

the house. The Preacher looks around. Suzie is more puzzled.

She goes to find where the music is coming from.

INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Suzie knocks on the door. No one answers. She peeps in. No

one is in the room.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM

The Preacher and the choir all have their hands on Gideon.

Suzie enters the room.

INT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAY

Junior and Pat are helping Linda carry her baggage inside as

Sunny reluctantly follows. It is obvious that Linda has left

Babe Brother.

Pat, Linda and Junior put the suitcases down.

Linda looks down, embarrassed.

Rhonda and Sunny leave. Pat turns on Junior about talking bad

about Babe Brother and Linda in front of Sunny.

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

Rhonda and Sunny are looking under a strawberry plant. Sunny

has strawberry stains around his mouth and on his shirt.

Rhonda is putting her strawberries in the bowl. After getting

a bowl full, they lay on the grass, eating strawberries while

looking up at the clouds slowly drifting by.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Babe Brother is driving along a country road while Harry,

sitting in the front seat next to him, yawns. Harry is tired.

Babe Brother's car stops in an orchard-like area.

EXT. ORCHARD - DAY

Babe Brother and Harry get out of the car. They walk on a

path that takes them under low hanging tree limbs. It gets

darker as they go deeper into the orchard. Babe Brother finds

the going rough and loses his footing.

Harry has to help him stay on his feet. Babe Brother finds it

necessary to take Harry's arm. Babe Brother stops and Harry

walks a few more steps ahead and waits for Babe Brother. Just

ahead sitting on a branch is a huge white owl camouflaged by

tree branches.

Babe Brother turns and starts hurrying back before Harry can

object. He walks slowly after Babe Brother who is doubling

the distance between himself and Harry as he runs through the

orchard to his car. Harry stops and looks around.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Pat, Linda and Junior are seated at the table. The suitcases

are in the middle of the floor.

The phone rings and Junior goes to pick it up. Linda's and

Pat's attention is focused on the phone. Junior hands the

phone to Linda.

Linda hesitates but Pat takes the phone from Junior and puts

it in her hand.

Sunny and Rhonda enter. Linda turns to look. Sunny's hands

and face look bloody from eating strawberries. She puts the

phone down and examines his dirty face. Pat brings Linda a

wet towel.

INT. THE BAKERS' GARAGE - NIGHT

MR. BAKER, a well built black man in his late 40's, is making

a new fishing pole. He is very involved. Mrs. Baker is

standing beside him with her arms folded. She stares at him.

Mr. Baker glances at her.

Mr. Baker doesn't answer. He pauses for a moment of thought.

Mrs. Baker sees that she is not going to get a response from

her husband. She picks up an eyelet and Mr. Baker looks at

her as if to say, keep your hands off. She gets the message

and lays the eyelet back on the work bench.

Mr. Baker admires his pole. He looks very closely at the

details of his work.

Rodney comes in, polishing his horn. Mr. Baker's expression

changes as he watches Rodney out of the corner of his eye.

Mrs. Baker gives Rodney a motherly pat on the head. Rodney

puts the trumpet to his mouth.

EXT. STREET - DAY

There is a man lying on a bus bench with his belongings. A

spotted dog is standing guard next to the bench. The dog's

reflection is caught in a puddle of water. The dog has

circles and sixes painted over his body.

Old John taps on the bench with his pipe. The man lying on

the bench stirs and gives Old John a wave to indicate that he

is alright. Old John slowly gets his cart moving again.

EXT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAY

Babe Brother drives around the block past Junior's house.

INT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAY

Junior is at the window, looking out.

EXT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAY

Babe Brother sits in his car with the windows up. Junior

tries to talk to him but Babe Brother will not roll down the

windows. He just stares at Junior, who is getting angry.

Babe Brother only stares at him. Junior gets more violent and

starts to shake the car.

Pat calls from the doorway.

INT. PREGNANT WOMAN'S ROOM - DAY

A woman is in a squatting position. Suzie and her aide are

holding the woman by the arms.

EXT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAY

Rhonda is painting her fingernails. Sunny watches her. She

looks around to see if any adult is watching. She tries to

talk Sunny into letting her paint his nails. He refuses but

she tries to pull his hand towards her. He fights his way

free and stands up and kicks the bottle of nail polish over.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Suzie is sitting in a chair; her head is bent forward. Gideon

is TALKING in his sleep. She awakes and nods off again. Harry

sticks his head in.

Harry helps Suzie to her feet.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Okra is painfully standing on his bad feet. He is in his

security-guard uniform, holding a bouquet of greens. As Suzie

comes in, Okra tries to stand upright at attention.

Suzie takes the greens and puts them on the counter. She

squeezes Okra's hand as a thank you. She pours him a cup of

coffee. Okra eases down into the chair. He crosses his legs

and starts massaging his feet.

Suzie get herself a cup of coffee and sits opposite him. She

stretches and tries to hold back a yawn. Okra looks at her in

a slightly desirous way.

Suzie keeps herself under control; she tries to find words to

say. She stands up.

She turns the fire out from under the coffee pot and exits

the back door.

Okra unties his shoes and begins to massage his feet.

INT. BEDROOM / EXT. YARD - NIGHT

Harry is sitting by the bed, just visible through the window.

He seems restless.

EXT. GIDEON'S BACKYARD - DAY

There is only one hen left in the coop. The garden is full of

weeds. The sunflowers are bent by the force of the wind. A

bag is thrown over the fence.

The shadows of pigeons flying overhead race along the ground.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Two shadows on the wall are facing each other. The shadows

are the heads of two women, Suzie and Hattie.

INT. HARRY'S ROOM - DAY

Harry has a plate of food in his hand. He stands facing

himself in the mirror, staring at himself while he eats. He

opens the door to leave but Sunny is in the hallway with his

back turned sweeping. Harry stares at him and decides to go

back in his room.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Harry sees that it is safe to leave. He sees Sunny sweeping

in Gideon's room. Gideon is sound asleep. Sunny is sweeping

around the bed.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Harry comes in and Hattie and Suzie stop talking. Harry is

aware that he was the subject. The SOUND of the boy next door

playing his horn is heard.

Harry waits for Hattie to respond but it is obvious that

Hattie isn't about to speak to him.

Harry moves out of her way to let her go by. Hattie doesn't

even give him a glance. Harry continues to look at her as she

disappears into Gideon's room.

Harry takes his time in looking for an answer.

INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Hattie enters Harry's room. She goes through his things. She

reads one of his letters. As she walks over to the window

reading his letter, she steps on the plate, cracking it.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Harry looks sad and suddenly a lot older as if what she said

has taken away some of his life.

Suzie takes the picture. She seems as if she has doubts about

having asked Harry to leave.

Suzie continues to look at the picture.

INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Hattie is reading Harry's letters when he appears behind her.

Hattie turns but is not surprised or concerned about Harry.

She hands him back his letters, looks at him for a moment and

goes. Harry looks down at the cracked dish.

INT. HERMAN'S HOUSE - EVENING (RAIN)

M.C. and Herman are packing. Okra is all dressed up with a

pair of Stacy Adams shoes that make his feet look

exaggeratedly long. Babe Brother and Harry are sitting at a

table playing blackjack. Okra picks up one thing at a time,

making the packing much harder. There is a stack of old dusty

78 record; Okra, trying to step over the records, kicks over

a box of mothballs that roll across the floor. Okra has to

step over boxes of toilet paper.

Harry picks up an old cigar box that falls opens. Dice,

shotgun shells, some spent .38 slugs and an old rusty knife,

a crab apple switch, land on the floor. Harry picks up the

knife.

Harry gives the knife to Babe Brother and signals him to put

it in his pocket.

The SOUND of the thunder has an unreal violence to it.

Babe Brother humps his shoulder. Babe Brother looks at his

hand.

Harry wins the first hand.

Harry wins another hand. M.C. and Okra are still packing

while Herman is eating Argo Starch.

Babe Brother agrees but his thoughts are obviously somewhere

else. Harry studies his hand and looks at Babe Brother; he

puts down his hand. Babe Brother wins and is quite pleased.

The next series of hands are won by Babe Brother.

Harry loses another hand and Babe Brother suddenly has a pile

of money.

Herman stand over him with a roll of bills and peels off

several.

Herman is standing behind Babe Brother, SINGING to himself.

Harry stops and thinks for a while.

Okra is taking several shotguns out of the closet.

Babe Brother hurries out. M.C., Herman and Okra flop down in

chairs and on the bed and look at their watches.

Harry sits at the table tapping out a rhythm on the table and

WHISTLING very softly to himself. Suddenly Harry sees that

Babe Brother left the pile of money on the table. A look of

concern comes over his face.

EXT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - NIGHT (RAIN)

It is raining hard. Babe Brother gets out of the car. Running

to get out of the rain, he slips and falls; he tries to get

up but slips and falls again. He gets up and walks slowly up

the steps as if he doesn't care whether he gets wet or not.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

Suzie helps him to take his wet coat off. She goes into the

kitchen, puts his coat in front of the stove. The knife falls

out. She picks it up and looks at it like she would throw it

away but Babe Brother takes it.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT (RAIN)

Junior is carrying a roll of roofing paper. Pat, Rhonda,

Linda and Sunny run to the porch to get out of the rain.

Junior stacks the roofing paper in the corner of the porch

and stamps the mud off his shoes.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

Junior, Pat, Linda and Rhonda come in to help Suzie move the

bed from under the rain dripping through the hole in the

ceiling.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN)

Sunny stands in the doorway watching his father sharpen his

knife that he got from Harry. Babe Brother is unaware that

his son is watching him.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

Linda has a surprised look on her face.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN)

Babe Brother is preoccupied sharpening his knife with a

sharpening stone. He is almost in a trance. Junior comes in

rather angrily. Sunny goes and sits in the shadows in the

dining room.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

Sunny is sitting in a chair listening to his father and uncle

argue in the kitchen. A car outside passes and the lights

from the car form a crochet-like moving pattern on the wall

behind him. Sunny is only lit for a moment.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN)

Babe Brother starts gathering up his things to leave.

Babe Brother attempts to get up but Junior pushes him down.

Babe Brother hits Junior on the jaw, driving him backwards,

causing the overhead lamp to sway violently.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

Suzie, Pat and Linda hear the noise coming from the kitchen

and rush to see what is going on.

INT. KITCHEN - RAINY NIGHT

Babe Brother and Junior are both reaching for the knife.

Junior is on top of Babe Brother, who is stretched out on the

table trying to reach the knife. Junior grabs the knife first

and Babe Brother flips over to defend himself. Babe Brother

grabs Junior's wrist as Junior tries to push the knife

against his throat.

Suzie comes in and grabs part of the knife with her hand and

Junior's wrist with her other hand. Pat and Linda try to pull

the two men apart while pleading with Junior.

Blood drips from Suzie's hand to the table, forming a pool

under Babe Brother's head.

Babe Brother's eyes are rolled to the back. Junior's eyes are

huge; he has an animal look on his face. The SOUND of

struggling people breathing heavily is amplified. The pool of

blood on the table grows larger.

Junior slowly becomes aware of the blood and his body

relaxes. He calmly releases the knife.

Junior takes his mother's hand.

Pat attempts to get the lard but pain in her stomach forces

her to sit down. Linda gets the lard out and hands it to

Junior. Babe Brother raises himself. The blood from Suzie's

dripping from his head. Rhonda is trying to hold Sunny back.

Junior holds his mother's hand under the faucet. It is a deep

cut. The bleeding won't stop.

Pat is sitting at the blood-stained table unable to move. She

is PANTING, sweating, and holding her stomach. Linda is

caught between trying to help Suzie and attending to Pat.

Babe Brother helps to make a wad of cloth to press in her

hand to Stop the bleeding.

Babe Brother is shamefully calm now and very humble.

Suzie attempts to go see Gideon but Babe Brother and Junior

turn her to the door. Going through the kitchen door, Junior

intentionally turns his back to Babe Brother. Babe Brother

stares at Junior's back as he walks ahead.

INT. HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

The automatic doors open and Junior, Babe Brother and Suzie

enter. There is a long line of people waiting at the

registration window as well as groups of people filling out

forms. Other patients are seated and waiting patiently to see

the doctor.

Suzie finally gets to the registration window. A NURSE,

white, 25, with extremely long fingernails that curve back

around, is surprisingly sympathetic.

Suzie puts her hand through the window. The Nurse stands up

to get a better look. The Nurse takes the wad out of her

hand. The bleeding has stopped.

The Nurse takes a deep breath. The Nurse glances up to notice

the blood stains on the back of Babe Brother head.

The Nurse hands Suzie a form, but Babe Brother takes the

form. The Nurse looks again at Babe Brother's head.

Babe Brother fills out the form with Suzie's help and hands

the form back to the Nurse.

They find a seat all together.

INT. HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

The room slowly fills with people and Babe Brother and Junior

offer their seats to those there for medical care.

INT. HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

Two Police Officers bring in a man handcuffed to a bed. The

woman officer carries a shotgun. The male police officer

carries a clip board. The Prisoner is obviously in no

condition to escape or cause trouble. They are allowed to go

directly to the emergency room without waiting.

INT. HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

More injured people come but in spite of their condition they

are told that they have to wait. There is only standing room.

Junior and Babe Brother are standing next to the wall.

On the other side of the room, Suzie is looking quietly at

them as if she is in deep thought.

Junior walks over to the reception desk.

Junior whispers to Babe Brother. They both start to laugh.

Suzie looks up and finds them in a fit of laughter. A faint

smile appears on her face.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

Gideon is slowly getting up. He looks around. He calls for

Suzie. He slowly gets to his feet.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

He walks by Linda, Pat, Rhonda, and Sunny, who are sleeping

in chairs, on the floor and on the sofa.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN)

Gideon opens the refrigerator and starts taking out bowls of

food and placing them on the table. He puts on a pot of

coffee.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN) (LATER)

Gideon is busy eating almost everything in sight. A group of

mystified and sleepy faces appear at the door. Pat, Linda,

Rhonda and Sunny are all looking rather dumbfounded.

EXT. BACKYARD - MORNING

Everything is wet from the night's rain. The garden looks

more like a graveyard. Moisture drips from the sunflowers.

Gideon's nervous looking rooster jumps the fence and starts

to CROW.

Skip is out early throwing rocks at his birds. The rocks land

on Gideon's roof.

EXT. HOUSE - MORNING

Babe Brother and Junior help Suzie out of the car. She has

her left hand bandaged. They are extremely exhausted. They

walk up the porch to find Harry holding the door open.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

On seeing Suzie, Sunny jumps up, knocking the can of marbles

over the kitchen floor. He runs to give Suzie a hug. Sunny

wants to touch her bandaged hand, but Linda stops him.

As Suzie goes to Gideon's room, she comes face to face with

Harry. She doesn't say anything.

INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAY

Gideon is SNORING loudly. On the night-stand is a plate with

food left on it. Suzie feels his forehead.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Harry sadly gets up. He looks at Babe Brother. Linda steps in

front of Babe Brother.

Babe Brother is surrounded by Linda and Sunny who has his

eyes fixed on Harry. They move as one heading for the

bedroom.

Harry seems a lot older. He sadly walks towards the kitchen

with his coffee cup.

LOW ANGLE SHOT: Harry is slowly walking towards the MARBLES

that are scattered over the kitchen floor.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Pat, Linda, Junior, Rhonda, Babe Brother, Sunny and Suzie are

all standing around waiting for Gideon to wake up.

Gideon's only response is to SNORE louder.

Babe Brother is in a corner all by himself. He looks down

when Pat asks the question about Harry.

A loud CRASHING SOUND comes from the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Harry is trying to raise himself from the floor. He pauses

for a moment and then collapses. Harry is in a lot of pain.

Harry's body contorts and then remains still.

Babe Brother, Junior, Pat, and Linda, Suzie run in. Suzie

tries to see if he is alive. Babe Brother tries to give him

mouth to mouth resuscitation but Linda pulls him away. Junior

tries to push down on Harry's chest.

Babe Brother stares down at Harry and then goes slowly back

into the living room. Pat is on the phone dialing the

paramedics. Everyone stands around Harry.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Two PARAMEDICS work on Harry. One of the paramedics is a

young Asian. The other is white with red hair. They listen

for a heart beat and shake their heads in a negative manner.

They pack up their medical case. The Asian's accent is very

difficult to understand.

The Paramedics start to leave without the body.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Harry is stretched out on the floor. A blanket covers

everything except his shoes.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Hattie, Marsh, Okra, Herman, and M.C. all come in. Marsh

looks cheerful.

Marsh hands Rhonda several dollars.

Hattie goes over and pulls the blanket back. Okra, M.C. and

Herman hurry over to take a quick glance. They huddle behind

Hattie, peeping over her shoulder.

INT. BATHROOM - EVENING

Linda is helping Babe Brother wash Suzie's blood out of his

hair. She dries his hair with a towel. Sonny hands Babe

Brother a clean shirt, Gideon's shirt. He puts it on.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Gideon is sitting on the edge of his bed looking through the

scraps of leftovers on his plate. He puts his pants on. As he

moves about, his joints SNAP and POP. He picks up the empty

plate.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT

Babe Brother is on the phone with the county morgue. He gets

into an argument with the people on the other end of the

phone.

Babe Brother hands the phone to Linda.

Junior steps over the body, holding a pot of coffee in his

hand.

The Preacher is sitting with Suzie talking in a low voice.

Pat, Rhonda and Sunny come in with boxes of chicken snack.

Linda hangs up the phone.

Gideon comes in walking very slowly, holding his plate out.

Everyone is shocked. Gideon is completely unaware of the

period that he has been sick.

The Preacher gives him a pat on the back and shakes Gideon's

hand.

Gideon smiles in appreciation. He pushes his plate out to

Pat, indicating that he wants it filled with chicken. Gideon

is about to bite into the chicken when he notices Harry's

feet sticking out. He points with the chicken in his hand. He

has a mystified look on his face.

Gideon seems to weaken for a moment.

Gideon is deeply concerned.

Gideon looks over at his two sons as if to ask them about it.

Junior and Babe Brother both have their heads down. Linda and

Sunny move closer to Babe Brother.

Gideon stares at Babe Brother and then looks around towards

Harry.

Hattie moves closer to Herman and speaks so only he can hear.

Herman moves away with a look of disdain.

Okra, Marsh, Hattie, Herman, and M.C. go to Harry's room,

leaving Suzie and Gideon sitting opposite each other with the

door to the kitchen separating them. Junior, the Preacher and

Pat are eating chicken. Linda is on the phone trying to get

through to the morgue.

She rapidly dials the number. There is a BUSY SIGNAL.

INT. BEDROOM - RIGHT

M.C. and Marsh are going through Harry's boxes. They take out

old blues records, books, a big Bible, and books on Dunbar.

Hattie reads the letters in a corner by herself. She stops

reading for a moment.

She seems frustrated with herself not being able to come to

terms about who was Harry.

EXT. FRONT YARD - NIGHT

A crowd of people are standing around looking at Gideon's

house.

INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT

The Preacher is sleep in his chair, SNORING loudly. Babe

Brother and Linda are sitting together, talking in almost a

whisper. Sunny is asleep in his lap. Babe Brother is finding

it difficult to apologize for his recent behavior.

Linda looks at Babe Brother for a length of time.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Harry's body lies there motionless.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

The Preacher is SNORING violently.

Babe Brother is asleep on the floor. Sunny is asleep sitting

on Linda's lap. Linda's feet rest on Babe Brother's chest.

Junior and Pat are looking at the baby pictures. Pat is

holding her hand across her stomach feeling the baby kick.

Rhonda is asleep in a chair.

Suzie and Gideon are sitting at the dining room table. Suzie

is cutting the dead leaves off of a small potted plant.

The SOUND of Rodney's trumpet is heard but is no longer

irritating.

Suzie doesn't pay any attention; she is involved with her

potted plant. Gideon looks over at the Preacher, who is still

asleep.

The RATTLING of pots and dishes starts suddenly. Harry's body

starts to sway gently as if he were about to get up.

Everyone is frozen. Babe Brother and Linda remain asleep. The

rocking caused by the earthquake doesn't wake them.

M.C., Herman, Okra and Hattie and Marsh enters the dining

room. Harry's feet are seen in the kitchen still swaying.

Babe Brother wakes in a sweat and sits next to Linda like a

child needing protection.

M.C., Okra and Herman move away from Hattie.

EXT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - DAY

Rhonda is sitting next to Sunny on the front porch. She has

an angry expression. Sunny is trying to please her by

offering her his airplane.

He pushes the airplane near her and she pushes it back with a

violent shove. He persists in offering her his airplane.

A crowd of people is still standing around in front of

Gideon's house.

Sunny and Rhonda don't respond. A middle-aged woman,

VIRGINIA, one of Gideon's neighbors, passes Sunny and Rhonda,

knocks on the screen door and goes in.

INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY

Gideon comes back in with Suzie, who is helping tie his tie.

They all line up and file out the front door with Suzie and

Gideon leading the way. Pat is holding her stomach with a

thoughtful look on her face.

Junior looks concerned as he follows Pat out the door. Sunny

follows Rhonda, who is still mad at him. Babe Brother and

Linda are the last ones out. Babe Brother takes a long look

in the direction of Harry as Linda pulls him out. She slams

the door.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Harry's body lies on the floor. On the kitchen sink are

Suzie's jars of cuttings, which have developed a maze of

roots.

