----------------------------------------------------------------------------

EXT. STREET. DAY

Legs run along the pavement. They are Mark Renton's.

Just ahead of him is Spud. They are both belting along.

As they travel, various objects (pens, tapes, CDs, toiletries, ties,

sunglasses, etc.) either fall or are discarded from inside their jackets.

They are pursued by two hard-looking Store Detectives in identical uniforms.

The men are fast, but Renton and Spud maintain their lead.

Suddenly, as Renton crosses a road, a car skids to a halt, inches from him.

In a moment of detachment he stops and looks at the shocked driver, then at

Spud, who has continued running, then at the Two Men, who are now closing in

on him.

He smiles.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT ROOM. DAY

In a bare, dingy room, Renton lies on the floor, alone, motionless and

drugged.

EXT. FOOTBALL PITCH. NIGHT

On a flood lit five-a-side pitch, Renton and his friends are taking on

another team at football.

The opposition all wear an identical strip (Arsenal), whereas Renton and his

friends wear an odd assortment of gear.

Three girls -- Lizzy, Gail, and Allison and Baby -- stand by the side,

watching.

The boys are outclassed by the team with the strip but play much dirtier.

As each performs a characteristic bit of play, the play freezes and their

name is visible, printed or written on some item of clothing. (T-Shirt,

baseball cap, shorts, trainers). In Begbie's case, his name appears as a

tatoo on his arm.

Sick Boy commits a sneaky foul and indignantly denies it.

Begbie commits an obvious foul and make no effort to deny it.

Spud, in goal, lets the ball in between his legs.

Tommy kicks the ball as hard as he can.

Renton's litany continues over the action:

Renton is hit straight in the face by the ball. He lies back on the

astroturf. Voice-over continues.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton lies on the floor.

Swanney, Allison and Baby, Sick Boy and Spud are shooting up or preparing to

shoot up. Sick Boy is talking to Allison as he taps up a vein on her arm.

Spud is shooting up

INT. PUB I. NIGHT

Begbie, smoking and drinking, speaks to camera.

INT. PUB I. NIGHT

Tommy sits beside Lizzy. He speaks to camera.

INT. RENTON FAMILY HOME, LIVING ROOM. NIGHT

Renton's father and mother sit at the table eating.

Renton is seated but not eating.

--------

INT. ELECTRICAL RETAILERS. DAY

Gav wears the corporate jacket.

--------

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Sick Boy and Spud lie drugged up. Allison and Baby wait while Swanney cooks

up.

Renton is standing up.

They both look at Sick Boy

Freeze Frame on Swanney.

INT. RENTON'S FLAT ROOM. DAY

The door opens and Renton enters carrying shopping bags. He empties them on

to a mattress beside three buckets and a television.

Renton swallows several Valium tablets. Voice-over continues.

--------

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Swanney, Sick Boy, Spud and Allison and Baby all lie inert while the

telephone rings.

--------

INT. CALL BOX. DAY

Renton curses as he slams down the receiver. He dials again.

INT. MIKEY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton holds two opium suppositories in the palm of his hand.

Renton sticks his hand down the back of his trousers and sticks the

suppositories into his rectum.

He smiles.

EXT. STREET. DAY

He looks around the local amenities. He is in discomfort, clutching his

abdomen and falling to his knees.

He notices a betting shop.

INT. BETTING SHOP. DAY

Renton walks through the crowded, smoky betting shop towards a door marked

'toilet' with a bit of card.

He stumbles through.

INT. HORRIBLE TOILET. DAY

This is the most horrible toilet in Britain.

Alone, Renton makes his way through the horrors to a cubicle.

INT. HORRIBLE TOILET CUBICLE. DAY

Renton locks the door.

He looks into the bowl and winces with disgust, even in his state.

He pulls the chain. The chain comes off.

He drops his trousers, sits on the bowl and closes his eyes.

--------

MONTAGE

A lorry on a building site dumps a load of bricks, B52's shed their load on

Vietnam, the Blue Peter elephant, etc.

--------

INT. CUBICLE. DAY

Renton has his eyes closed. They snap open.

He looks down between his legs.

He drops to his knees in front of the bowl and rolls his sleeve up.

With no more hesitation he plunges his arm into the bowl and trawls for the

suppositories.

It seems to take ages. He cannot find them. He sticks his arm further and

further into the toilet, moving his whole body close. He strains to find it.

His head is over the bowl now. Gradually he reaches still further until his

head is lowered into the bowl, followed by his neck, torso, other arm, and

finally his legs, all disappearing.

The cubicle is empty.

INT. UNDER WATER. DAY

Renton, dressed as before, swims through murky depths until he reaches the

bottom, where he picks up the suppositories, which glow like luminous

pearls, before heading up towards the surface again.

INT. HORRIBLE TOILET CUBICLE. DAY

The toilet is empty.

Suddenly Renton appears through the bowl, then his arms as he lifts himself

out. Still clasping his two suppositories, he walks out of the toilet.

INT. RENTON'S ROOM. DAY

The mattress, buckets and supplies are laid out as before.

The door opens and Renton enters, still soaking and dripping.

The suppositories are in his hand. He holds them up, and they twinkle in the

light.

INT. RENTON'S ROOM. DAY

The cans of soup, the bottle of water, and the carton of ice cream are

empty, the bottle of pills spilt, the magazines well thumbed.

--------

Sick Boy throws across a worn copy of a film guide.

Renton cannot be bothered to pick it up.

--------

EXT. PARK. DAY

Typical weather, neither good nor bad. The park is nondescript arid green

with a few bushes. This is not Kew Gardens. Renton and Sick Boy appear,

dressed as before but for the addition of cheap sunglasses.

Renton is carrying a battered old cassette player and a carry-out in a

plastic bag.

Sick Boy is carrying a small, tatty suitcase from Oxfam.

They scan the horizon and give each other the nod. They walk towards the

bushes.

EXT. PARK. DAY

Seen through the telescopic sight of an air rifle that wanders over various

potential targets (children, pensioners, couples, gardeners, etc.).

EXT. PARK. DAY

Sick Boy rests the gun down.

Right. So we all get old and then we can't hack it any more. Is that it?

EXT. PARK. DAY Through the sight again. This time a Skinhead and his

muscle-bound dog are in view.

Sick Boy and Renton talk like Sean Connery.

The gun fires and the dog yelps, jumps up and bites its owner (the

Skinhead).

EXT. PARK. DAY

Renton loads up again.

INT. CAFE. DAY

Two milkshakes clink together.

Renton and Spud and seated at a booth, dressed in their own fashion for job

interviews.

Renton unfolds silver foil to reveal some amphetamine. Spud dips in a finger

and takes a dab. He nods in appreciation as he tastes it. Renton leaves the

packet in Spud's hand.

--------

INT. INTERVIEW OFFICE. DAY

A Woman and Two Men (1 and 2) are interviewing Renton. His job application

form is on the desk in front of them.

Renton looks pious under scrutiny.

There is silence.

A paper clip crashes to the floor.

--------

INT. OFFICE. DAY

The same office. The same team are interviewing Spud.

---------

---------

Spud crosses the room to shake everyone by the hand and kiss them.

--------

INT. PUB 1. DAY

Renton and Spud meet up after the interviews.

INT. OFFICE. DAY

The Woman and Two Men sit in silence.

--------

INT. PUB 2. NIGHT

It is Saturday night in a busy, city-centre pub on two levels. On a large

upper balcony, overlooking the bar and floor downstairs, sit Spud, Gail,

Renton, Sick Boy, Tommy, Lizzy and Begbie.

Begbie's story overlaps with the subsequent depiction of the incident.

INT. POOL HALL. DAY

The events in the pool hall, as described by Begbie.

Begbie and Tommy are playing pool.

Begbie is playing like a wizard.

Tommy looks defeated.

Lining up for the final ball, Begbie is distracted by a large Hard Man

standing at the bar staring at him.

Begbie stands up and walks slowly towards the Hard Man.

They stand, eye to eye, for a moment.

Begbie swings the pool cue slowly into his palm.

The Hard Man turns and leaves.

Begbie drinks the Hard Man's pint, then pots the black with a brilliant

shot.

INT. PUB 2. DAY

Begbie, his story complete, finishes his pint. The others continue to stare

at him, frozen as though expecting something more. Begbie smiles and throws

the pint over his head.

Freeze-frame: the glass in mid-air and Begbie's smiling face.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton's hand flicks through a long row of videos on the floor while the

sound of weights being lifted (by Tommy) emanates from nearby.

Most of the videos are feature films or comedy shows, some with titles

written in Tommy's hand, but two catch Renton's attention.

They are 100 Great Goals and Tommy and Lizzy Vol. 1, the latter a

handwritten title.

Renton looks from the video round to Tommy, who is engrossed in lifting

weights.

INT. POOL HALL. DAY

Tommy's account over a depiction of his version.

The events are as follows:

Begbie and Tommy are playing pool.

Begbie, furious, miscues, goes in off, etc.

Tommy deliberately misses sitters and tries to look annoyed.

Begbie lines up to play the black. It is unmissable.

At the bar beyond sits a harmless young Man, wearing the same clothes as the

Hard Man in Begbie's account except that they are now baggy rather than

taut. He is clearly not staring at Begbie but drinks a half-pint and eats

some crisps.

As Begbie plays, the Man bites a crisp.

Begbie miscues, rips the cloth and the ball flies off the table.

Tommy catches it and looks up to see Begbie assaulting the young Man.

Tommy cautiously restrains Begbie and he reaches into his jacket for a

knife.

Begbie turns and for a moment looks as though he might attack Tommy.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. DAY

Tommy puts down his weights.

Renton holds up 100 Great Goals.

INT. PUB 2. NIGHT

The freeze-frame of the glass in mid-air and Begbie's smiling face.

The glass falls into the crowd.

Screaming starts. A Woman is bleeding from a wound in her head. The Men

beside her turn furiously around to look for the source of the glass.

Up on the balcony, Begbie stands up. The screams and shouting continue

below.

Begbie appears at the bottom of the staircase down from the balcony.

He strides towards the bleeding Woman and begins shouting.

A man stands up from one of the tables.

Begbie kick the Man in the groin. Another moves towards him but is blocked

by the Men surrounding the girl. Soon the whole mass dissolves into a brutal

scrum, in which Begbie plays a prominent part.

Up on the balcony, the rest of the gang watch in silence.

INT. RENTON'S FLAT. DAY

The empty cover for 100 Great Goals lies on the floor.

Sick Boy and Renton sit dispassionately watching Tommy and Lizzy in their

home-made soft-porn video.

INT. CLUB. NIGHT

A mass of dancing bodies fills the floor. The music is very loud.

At the side of the dance floor sit Tommy and Spud. The look rather gloomy.

There is an empty seat beside each of them. Spud is drinking heavily.

Tommy turns and speaks to Spud. His lips move but nothing is audible. Spud

is not ever aware that Tommy has spoken.

Tommy bellows in Spud's ear.

Tommy's words and all subsequent conversation in the dance area of the club

appear as subtitles, the character's communications somewhere between speech

and mime.

INT. NIGHTCLUB, WOMEN'S TOILET. NIGHT

Gail and Lizzy are smoking and talking.

INT. NIGHTCLUB. DANCE AREA. NIGHT

Tommy and Spud seated as before. Their words are subtitled.

As they are speaking Gail and Lizzy return and sit down.

Standing nearby but apart from them is Renton.

Renton notes Spud and Tommy with their partners, and across the other side

Sick Boy and Begbie are engaged in flirtatious conversation with Two Women.

Begbie and Sick Boy with the Two Women.

Renton standing among a group of lone nerds.

Renton wades on to the dance floor, looking at countless women, all whom

either turn away or are spoken for.

Renton notices one girl (Diane) walking on her own towards the door.

A Man carrying two drinks catches up with her and walks backwards, talking

to her.

She says nothing. He blocks her way.

She takes one drink and downs it, then the other, handing him back the empty

glasses. She steps past him and walks on towards the door.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT

The Girl walks away from the club, scanning the street for a taxi, and hail

one which stops just as Renton calls out.

Diane halts abruptly as a taxi pulls up.

The girl has disappeared into the back of the taxi.

Renton looks around.

EXT. ROAD. NIGHT

The taxi motors along.

INT. TAXI. NIGHT

Renton and Diane are kissing passionately in the back.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT

Spud is pushed against the wall held by his lapels. He drinks from a bottle

of beer in one hand.

Spud nods drunkenly.

Gail releases her grip.

Spud drinks from a bottle in the other hand and says nothing but he does not

look too happy.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. NIGHT

Tommy and Lizzy kiss while Tommy unlocks the door.

INT. DIANE'S HOME, HALLWAY. NIGHT

In a darkened suburban hallway, the door opens and two figures enter.

They walk through another door and close it behind them.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. NIGHT

Tommy and Lizzy kiss against the inside of th door, taking their outer

clothes off.

INT. DIANE'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

By a pale bedside light, Diane and Renton undress.

INT. GAIL'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

Spud is lying unconscious on the bed. Gail stands over him.

She kicks him. He moans.

She kicks him again. He moans again.

She begins undressing him.

INT. DIANE'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

Renton lies on his back while Diane rides above him.

INT. GAIL'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

Gail throws Spud's clothes to the floor and throws a blanket over him.

She switches out the light.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. NIGHT

Tommy and Lizzy now lie on the bed in a state of semi-undress.

Tommy gets up and reaches into the row of videos on the floor. He lifts out

Tommy and LIzzy, Vol. 1 and hastily shoves it into the video.

Tommy sits back on the bed with the remote control and presses 'play' as

Lizzy kisses him.

His face registers consternation.

On the television, Archie Gemmill scores his famous goal against Holland in

1978.

INT. DIANE'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

Renton and Diane climax together.

Diane immediately climbs off and wraps herself in a robe.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. NIGHT

The lights are full on now. Lizzy sits on the bed clutching a blanket around

herself.

Tommy hops around in his underwear, searching desperately.

All the videos are opened and scattered everywhere.

INT. DIANE'S HOME, LIVING-ROOM. MORNING

Renton lies submerged under a blanket.

The sounds of a normal morning travel from a room nearby: whistles, radio,

voices.

Renton peeps over the edge of the blanket, then covers his head again.

INT. GAIL'S BEDROOM. MORNING

Spud opens his eyes. With his fingers, he feels crusted liquid around his

mouth.

Abruptly he turns around: the bed is soaked in vomit.

He looks under the cover and drops it again in revulsion.

INT. DIANE'S HOME, LIVING-ROOM. DAY

Renton pulls himself up off the sofa and dresses as quickly as possible.

INT. GAIL'S BEDROOM. DAY

Spud wipes the vomit from his chest with a pillowcase, which he dumps in the

middle of the sheets before gathering the whole lot up as a bundle.

INT. DIANE'S HOME, HALL/KITCHEN. DAY

The door swings open. A Man and a Woman, about Renton's age, sit at the

kitchen table. They look up to see Renton in the doorway.

Renton walks to the table and sits down.

The couple exchange a look and laugh.

The Man and Woman look beyond Renton. He too turns and follows their gaze.

Diane stands in the doorway.

She is wearing school uniform.

INT. GAIL'S HOME, HALL/KITCHEN. DAY

The door swings open to reveal the kitchen. Gail, her Father, and Mother are

seated around the table, eating breakfast. They look towards Spud, who

carries the knotted bundle of sheets as he approaches the table.

She takes hold of the bundle.

Spud does not yield.

She pulls harder. Spud holds on. She tugs powerfully.

The bundle bursts open with an explosion of vomit and excrement that covers

everything in the kitchen.

Only Spud remains untouched.

---------

I guess this means I'll never get to have sex with Gail.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. DAY

Tommy sits alone, watching

100 Great Goals

---------

EXT. STREET. DAY

Renton paces briskly down the street, followed by Diane.

I don't see why not.

They stop at the school gates.

Renton walks away.

Renton turns and walks back to her. They stand for a moment, then Renton

walks away again. Diane smiles.

EXT. VIDEO STORE. DAY

In the cold light of morning, Tommy and Lizzy wait, not speaking, outside

the still-closed video store.

---------

EXT. RAIL BRIDGE. DAY

A train speeds across.

INT. TRAIN. DAY

Sick Boy, Tommy, Spud and Renton sit drinking from an extensive carry-out.

They sit in silence.

---------

EXT. STATION. DAY

The station is in the middle of a moor. There appears to be no habitation

around. In the distance are some hills.

The train stands at the station.

As it pulls away, Renton, Spud, Tommy and Sick Boy are left standing on the

platform, looking around.

Tommy points vaguely across the moor.

They step across the tracks toward the vast moorland. They stop.

All but Tommy sit down on rocks or clumps of heather.

A group of three serious Walkers trudge past from the other end of the

platform, decked out in regulation Berghaus from head to foot. They tramp

off towards the wilderness. The boys watch them go.

Spud opens a can.

The three serious Walkers are receding into the distance.

The boys troop back towards the platform.

At or around this time, we made a healthy, informed, democratic decision to

get

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton hands over money to Swanney.

Renton then begins cooking up.

Also present and cooking or shooting up are Spud, Swanney, Allison and Baby,

and Sick Boy.

He injects.

---------

INT. SHOP. DAY

Renton, Spud, and Sick Boy are stuffing objects into their shirts and

pockets.

---------

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton lies back, narcotized.

EXT. STREET. DAY

Renton and Spud are running along the street.

Two uniformed Store Detectives are running after them.

Sick Boy stands in a doorway. As the Detectives run past, he strolls away in

the opposite direction.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton lies back as before.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. LATER

Spud cooks up, watched by Swanney.

Nearby lie the drugged forms of Renton, Sick Boy and Allison and Baby.

INT. RENTON FAMILY HOME, LIVING-ROOM. NIGHT

Renton's Mother and Father sit reading the paper and a magazine.

INT. RENTON FAMILY HOME, PARENTS' BEDROOM. NIGHT

Renton trawls through drawers and any containers (shoe boxes, make-up boxes,

under the mattress, etc.) until he finds some cash/jewelry.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton lies back, staring vacantly ahead.

Tommy flops down beside him. Renton shows barely a flicker of awareness.

INT. HOSPITAL WARD SITTING-ROOM. DAY

A few elderly patients sit in armchairs watching daytime television.

Renton and Spud jump and climb through an open window. Watched by the

helpless patients, they calmly disconnect the television and take it with

them as they leave by the same route.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton and Tommy slumped side by side as before.

Renton huddles up and leans away from Tommy.

I've got the money.

Tommy produces ten pounds from his pocket.

EXT. STREET. DAY

Renton and Spud run along the street.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Tommy lies drugged on the floor.

---------

INT. FLAT TO BE BURGLED. DAY

The door of an ordinary flat is kicked open.

Begbie walks in, crowbar in hand, followed by Sick Boy and Spud.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Sick Boy opens the heel of a his shoe to reveal a syringe.

---------

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Swanney hands over a small bag of heroin in exchange for ten pounds from

Renton.

---------

INT. FLAT TO BE BURGLED, KITCHEN. DAY

Spud checks the fridge and pulls out a large chunk of deep-frozen meat.

He hits with the crowbar until it fractures and splits. Inside there is some

jewellery.

---------

INT. CAR. DAY

The car is empty. A window is broken and the door opened.

The car alarm goes off.

Renton reaches under the seat and finds the radio/cassette. He then pulls

the bonnet release.

EXT. CAR. DAY

The car alarm rings on until Renton calmly produces a pair of wire cutters

and a spanner to cut free and release the battery.

The alarm is silenced.

Renton walks away with the battery and the stereo.

INT. GP'S SURGERY. DAY

The GP examines Renton's chest and smiles.

The GP turns to wash his hands. Renton pulls on his shirt and steals a

prescription pad off the desk.

---------

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton lies back with his eyes close. A football enters the frame to bounce

off his head and out again.

He opens his eyes and it happens again.

Opposite him, Spud, Sick Boy and Tommy stand looking down on him.

Tommy throws the ball again.

---------

INT. PUB I. DAY

It's the first day of the Edinburgh Festival.

Renton, Tommy, Spud, Sick Boy and Begbie sit drinking.

They observe a young male American Tourist walk in in a bulky red anorak and

glasses. He goes past them towards the toilet.

Begbie stands up.

INT. PUB I, TOILET. DAY

The American Tourist turns from the urinal to see Begbie, Renton, Sick Boy,

Spud and Tommy approaching. Begbie punches and kicks the Tourist and pulls

out a knife.

---------

INT. TAXI. DAY

The door of the taxi opens, Begbie, Tommy, Spud, Sick Boy and Renton get in,

carrying the red anorak and glasses.

As the taxi pulls away they study the photograph in the passport. They look

at one another in agreement.

EXT. TAXI. DAY

The taxi motors along.

---------

INT. PUB I. NIGHT

A man at the bar is now wearing the red anorak.

Begbie divides up the money among Sick Boy, Tommy, Spud, and Renton.

Renton takes his share.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Renton lies as before. Around the room are Swanney, Allison, Tommy, Spud and

Sick Boy.

Allison begins screaming and wailing.

Slowly, the others rouse themselves to varying degrees.

Allison points toward the bundle of dirty blankets in which her baby is

wrapped. Sick Boy follows her directions.

Calm down, calm down. It's going to be all right, everything's going to be

just fine.

Sick Boy stands over the bundle. The baby is dead.

Oh, fuck. Sick Boy reaches out to Allison.

Say something, Mark, say something --

I'm cooking' up. There is a silence.

Renton begins scrambling around through the works.

EXT. STREET. DAY

Renton, Spud and Sick Boy cross the road to approach the shop.

---------

INT. SHOP. DAY

Renton, Spud and Sick Boy are stuffing their pockets, as seen before.

Renton's theft is interrupted by Diane's voice.

Diane is standing just beside him.

Renton is speechless, but a few stolen items fall from inside his jacket

down to the floor.

Diane looks down.

Spud and Sick Boy start to snigger.

One of the Store Detectives become aware of the group. He starts walking

towards them.

A few more items fall from Renton's jacket as the store Detective closes in.

Renton looks at Diane.

---------

EXT. STREET. DAY

Renton and Spud are running, pursued by the Two Store Detectives.

Nor did I. Our only response was to keep on going and fuck everything. Pile

misery upon misery, heap it up on a spoon and dissolve it with a drop of

bile, then squirt it into a stinking purulent vein and do it all over again.

Keep on going: getting up, going out, robbing, stealing, fucking people

over, propelling ourselves with longing towards the day it would all go

wrong. As seen in the opening scene, Renton is nearly hit by a car that

screeches to a halt as he crosses a road.

He looks at the driver, at Spud running away and the Store Detectives

approaching.

Because no matter how much you stash or how much you steal, you never have

enough. No matter how often you go out and rob and fuck people over you

always need to get up and do it all again. Renton smiles and waits.

Sooner or later, this sort of thing was bound to happen. One of the

Detectives runs straight past him, after Spud.

The other Detective crashes into Renton with a mighty punch in the stomach.

INT. COURT. DAY

Spud and Renton stand in the dock. Renton's Mother and Father, Sick Boy,

Begbie, and Spud's Mother (Mrs. Murphy) are among those in the gallery.

The Sheriff delivers his sentence.

The Sheriff and Renton stare at one another for a moment. Renton turns to

look at Spud, then back towards the Sheriff, who is now leaving the court.

INT. PUB I. DAY

The pub is crowded. Around Renton are his mother, Father, Begbie, Sick Boy

and Gav.

There is a round to nodding and 'poor Spud'ing. Everyone begins to talk at

once.

Fucking right I am. See, inside, you wouldn't last two fucking days.

There's better things that the needle, Rents. Choose life.

He winks.

I remember when you were a baby, even when you would never do what you were

told.

They laugh, then fall silent.

Renton turns around. Behind him stands Spud's mother.

Mrs Murphy, I'm sorry about Spud. It's wasn't fair, him going down and not

me --

Tears in her eyes, Mrs Murphy turns and walks away.

Renton watches her go. Behind him Begbie shouts.

Begbie turns back to Renton.

He moves towards the bar.

Renton slips away.

Renton walks through the bar towards the toilets, then out of a back door.

EXT. YARD. DAY

Renton emerges into a narrow yard surrounded by a high wall. He looks

around. The steel back gate is locked.

Renton climbs the wall. He stands on top, then dives off the other side,

executing a somersault in mid-air.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. NIGHT

Swanney is cooking up. Renton lands on the floor behind him like a gymnast.

Renton sits on his usual cushion on the floor.

He produces twenty pounds.

He swipes the notes underneath a UV forgery checker.

Renton begins his search for a vein.

He hands Renton the syringe. Renton inject, then lies back on the dirty,

red, carpeted floor. He lies completely still. His pupils shrink. His

breathing becomes slow, shallow and intermittent. He sinks into the floor

until he is lying in a coffin-shaped and coffin-sized pit, lined by the red

carpet. Swanney stands over him.

An ambulance siren becomes faintly audible.

INT. SWANNEY'S STAIRWELL. NIGHT

The siren is a little louder. Swanney holds Renton under his arms and drags

him backwards down the steps.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT

As Swanney emerges, still dragging Renton, the siren grows louder and then

an ambulance speeds by without stopping. Swanney drags Renton across the

pavement and into the open door of a waiting taxi. Swanney then steps out of

the taxi's other door, pausing only to tuck a ten-pound note into Renton's

pocket before closing the door.

INT. TAXI. NIGHT

Renton lies on the floor of the taxi, as Swanney left him, rolling slightly

as the taxi takes a corner.

EXT. HOSPITAL/TAXI. NIGHT

The taxi is stationary. We do not see the driver's face but his hand opens

the door and then drags Renton out on to the pavement by his ankles before

taking the ten pound note, getting back in the cab and driving away. Renton

lies on the pavement. Two Porters life him by arms and ankles on to a

trolley. We do not see the Porters's faces as they wheel Renton into the

hospital.

INT. HOSPITAL ACCIDENT AND EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT. NIGHT

Renton is wheeled through the department, then into a bay surrounded by a

white nylon curtain.

INT. TROLLEY BAY. NIGHT

The Porters lift Renton from one trolley on to another, then leave him alone

in the bay surrounded by the curtain. Renton lies alone. His breathing is

still shallow and erratic. Around him is the usual accident and emergency

paraphernalia: blood pressure machine, oxygen tap, bandages, etc. A Doctor

comes in and gives Renton an injection, then leaves.

Renton breathes more easily.

---------

The Two Porters return with another trolley. They lift Renton roughly on to

it and wheel him away.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR. NIGHT

The Porters wheel Renton along.

INT. WARD. NIGHT

The Porters lift Renton off the trolley and dump him on the bed. A nurse

sticks a thermometer in his mouth.

INT. WARD. DAY

Renton's Father and Mother lift Renton, now fully conscious, off the bed and

dump him in a wheelchair.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR. DAY

Mother walks ahead. Behind her, Father pushes Renton in the wheelchair.

---------

INT. TAXI. DAY

Mother and Father sit on either side of Renton.

INT. RENTON'S BEDROOM. DAY

Father shoves Renton on to the bed, then walks out past Mother, who looks at

Renton for a moment before closing the door.

INT. OTHER SIDE OF RENTON'S BEDROOM DOOR. DAY

Renton's Father's hand slides three bolts across to lock the door.

INT. RENTON'S BEDROOM. DAY

Renton lies on the bed.

The door opens. Renton's Mother walks in with a bowl of soup and a piece of

bread. Father watches from the doorway.

Mother retreats past Father, who closes the door. The bolts go home again.

Renton lies back and closes his eyes. His forehead is damp with sweat. He

begins to shake. He tosses and turns, becoming wrapped up in a swathe of

blankets. As he unravels them, he is astonished to find a fully clothed

Begbie in the bed with him.

Begbie laughs and covers himself up. Renton rips away the blankets, but

Begbie has gone. Renton looks up. Baby Dawn is crawling across the ceiling.

Renton looks down to see Diane sitting on the end of the bed. Diane sings

'Temptation' by New Order.

Renton looks back up. Dawn continues her slow crawl, leaving behind a thick

rail of unidentifiable slime. Renton looks down. Sick Boy sits on the end of

the bed, holding a cup of tea and a chocolate biscuit. Mother stands behind

him.

Sick Boy takes a bit of his biscuit. Dawn crawls on. She has fangs now. Spud

sits on the end of the bed, in a caricature prison uniform with arrows on

it, plus a ball and chain. Dawn has claws as well. Tommy sits on the end of

the bed. He looks terrible.

Renton looks up again just as the baby drops on to his face. He tears her

off and throws her into a corner. Renton's Mother and Father are washing

him. Mother bends down and picks up the large, damp sponge from the corner,

where it landed. She wipes her son's face with it.

---------

INT. CONSULTING ROOM. DAY

A Doctor stands up as Renton enters.

They both sit down.

---------

INT. RENTON FAMILY HOME, LIVING-ROOM. DAY

Renton, his mother and Father sit watching television.

INT. STUDIO. DAY

Renton is sitting inside a plastic booth shaped like a giant syringe. The

Doctor, now dressed as a game-show host, stands in front, with Renton's

Mother and Father beside him.

Fanfare.

Mother and Father confer.

Fanfare.

Fanfare.

Lights flash. Music. A garish Hostess walks on with two envelopes. She holds

them out for Mother to choose one.

INT. CONSULTING ROOM. DAY

The Doctor watches in silence as the Hostess, now dressed as a medical

technician, draws blood from Renton's arm and puts it into a tube. She marks

the tube with a pre-printed, numbered label.

INT. STUDIO. DAY

Mother opens one of the envelopes. She is speechless with joy. The plastic

booth opens up. Lights flash again, etc. Renton steps out.

INT. SOCIAL CLUB. NIGHT

Renton, his Mother and Father sit at a table in the local social club. It is

a Saturday night and the club is busy. Everyone sits in rapt silence. It is

not initially clear what is going on. Near the bar a Caller with a

microphone calls over the PA - Two and four,

twenty-four...seven...fifteen...clickety-click, sixty-six - And so on, as he

draws the numbers from the drum. Everyone studies their cards, except

Renton, who studies the people instead, his drink untouched. The

number-calling continues until suddenly interrupted by Mother's voice.

Mark...Mark, you've got a house. House! House! For goodness's sake, Mark.

They bustle around him and pass his card to the front.

His mother counts a wad of money in front of him.

EXT. HOUSING ESTATE. DAY

On the door of a flat 'plaguer', 'HIV', and 'junky AIDS scum' are daubed on

the walls. The sound of a ball being regularly bounced against a wall can be

heard.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. NIGHT

It is poorly furnished. Tommy is seated. Renton has the football, which he

kicks against the wall and catches, then drops and kicks again, and so on.

The ball is slightly flat.

Renton drops the ball. It rolls to a halt in the corner. He sits down.

Renton produces some of his bingo win. As he hands the notes over, their

eyes and hands meet for a moment. Tommy puts the money away.

---------

INT. HOSPITAL. NIGHT

Renton walks along a corridor and into a ward.

INT. WARD. DAY

Sheets cover the lower half of Swanney in bed. They are thrown back to

reveal the stump of an above-knee amputation.

Renton sits down and takes it in silence.

Sure will, pal, sure will.

EXT. PARK. DAY

Renton and Sick Boy are seated in their firing patch, sitting on plastic

bags with beer, vodka, hash and the cassette player. The airgun is present

as before, but they are not making any use of it.

Eughh. Sounds horrible.

It wasn't that bad.

Did he -- you know?

What?

You know.

No, he didn't make me touch it.

Oh no, don't even mention it.

He made me lick it.

God, you're sick.

Sick Boy is silent. He stiffens as he avoids Renton's gaze. They shift

fractionally apart. RENTON tuts.

---------

INT. RENTON'S BEDSIT. NIGHT

Renton sits alone on the bed, making a joint and reading a book. There is a

knock at the door. Renton answers the door.

Renton looks in each direction along the empty passageway.

INT. RENTON'S BEDSIT. NIGHT

Renton and Diane are lying in the bed. Diane, wearing one of Renton's

T-shirts, is rolling a mega-joint, quite unaware of the scrutiny of Renton.

Diane completes the joint.

EXT. LONDON. DAY

As contemporary retake of all those 'Swinging London' montages: Red

Routemaster/Trafalgar Square/Big Ben/Royalty/City gents in suits/Chelsea

ladies/fashion victims/Piccadilly Circus at night. Incut with close-ups of

classic street names on a street map (all the ones made famous by Monopoly.

INT. ESTATE AGENT'S OFFICE. DAY

The montage ends on one street, then draws back to reveal the whole map of

London pinned to a wall. A Man holding a telephone walks in front of the

mape and belches loudly. Revealing more, he is in a scruffy, cramped office

with half a dozen occupied desks and twice as many telephones. Seated at the

one nearest to the belching Man is Renton. He is wearing a shirt and tie

now. He turns in response to the belch.

Renton takes the telephone and reaches for a piece of paper from which he

reads.

Renton checks his watch.

EXT. THE AI IN NORTH LONDON. DAY

Renton stands waiting beside this busy London road, outside some very

unfortunate housing, as the traffic streams past.

A couple approach. Renton unlocks the door of a flat and holds the door open

while he ushers them in.

INT. LONDON FLAT. DAY

Renton shows the Couple round a typical London flat nightmare. A poor

conversion, poor decor, everything small and ill-fitting. The windows rattle

as the traffic roars by.

INT. LONDON BEDSIT. NIGHT

Renton finishes eating a pot noodle. He puts it down and picks up a letter.

He lies back and reads. Intercut with:

INT. SCHOOLROOM. DAY

A class is in progress. A teacher lectures to a mixed class, but Diane is

not listening as she is writing.

EXT. SCHOOL. DAY

Diane is leaving the school when Sick Boy catches up with her. They stop and

then she walks away.

EXT. PARK. DAY

Diane walks along a concrete path. As she does so she has to step over Spud,

who lies asleep/unconscious beside the remains of a carry out.

INT. LONDON BEDSIT. NIGHT

Renton turns the page.

There is a buzz at the door. Renton re-examines the letter. There is another

buzz.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE BEDSIT. NIGHT

Renton opens the door to an unseen figure. It is Begbie.

INT. BEDSIT. NIGHT

Renton sits on the bed. Begbie stands over him, pointing a gun at his head.

He pulls the trigger. It clicks harmlessly.

He 'fires' the gun a few more times at his own head, then chucks it to the

floor.

He digs a few rings out of his pocket and throws them to Renton.

INT. BEDSIT. DAY

Begbie is sitting on the bed in his underwear, eating cereal while watching

television. A small carry-out is nearby. Renton finishes dressing for work.

He pauses at the open door, looking back towards his guest.

Begbie opens a can of beer. Renton closes the door.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE BEDSIT. DAY

Renton closes his door. He is about to walk away when he heard Begbie

shouting.

Renton opens the door. Begbie is holding out an empty packet of cigarettes.

Begbie throws the packet down to the floor. It lands near the door. He has

turned back to the television and takes a swig of beer.

Renton closes the door again.

INT. BEDSIT. NIGHT

Renton and Begbie lie in the single bed with their heads at opposite ends.

Begbie snores. Renton is wide awake, with a pair of smelly- socked feet only

inches from his nose.

INT. LONDON BEDSIT. DAY

Where the first empty packet of cigarettes fell to the floor there is now a

large heap of empty packets: the product of weeks at sixty a day. Another

one lands on the pile. Begbie, still in his underwear, still can in hand,

sits watchig the racing as before. Behind his, cigarettes and alcohol are

stacked up like a miniature duty-free warehouse. Renton sits behind him,

reading a book.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE BEDSIT. DAY

The door opens, Renton walks out, the door closes and Renton walks away. A

wild, frightening scream erupts from beyond the door.

INT. LONDON BEDSIT. DAY

Begbie, alone in the bedsit, is screaming a cry of primal joy.

INT. LONDON PARTY. NIGHT

To loud music and strobing, fractured lights, surrounded by dry ice, Begbie

dances near a tall woman. Other people dance nearby. Begbie gives the thumbs

up to Renton, who sits on a stool at one side drinking from a bottle of

beer. Begbie and the Woman walk away. Renton looks around the club at the

various men and women.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT

A car sits in a street near the club, windows steamed up.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Begbie and the Woman embrace passionately. The Woman undoes Begbie's

trousers.

INT. PARTY. NIGHT

Renton's gaze continues to wander around.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Begbie and the Woman continue their embrace as she unbuttons his shirt.

Suddenly Bedbie freezes. He is holding the 'Woman's' groin. There is

something there that shouldn't be. Begbie goes crazy, simultaneously trying

to put his clothes back on, hit the Woman and get out of the car.

EXT. STREET. NIGHT

Begbie stumbles away from the car, pulling up his trousers as he goes.

INT. BEDSIT. NIGHT

Begbie sits on the bed. Renton is sitting on the floor watching.

Begbie leaps off the bed, grabs Renton and head-butts him, then holds him by

the lapel.

Begbie produces his knife. There is a knock on the door. They do not move.

There is another knock.

INT. BEDSIT. NIGHT

Begbie lies sleeping on the bed. There are now two sets of feet by his head,

one on each side. At the other end lie Renton (awake) and Sick Boy (asleep).

----------

INT. ESTATE AGENT'S OFFICE. DAY

Renton sits at his desk, haggard and tired. Other people bustle around him.

Telephones ring, etc... In the background the Man (who belched) is trying to

promote a flat down the telephone.

----------

INT. BEDSIT. NIGHT

Renton (still dressed for work), Begbie and Sick Boy sit in a line on the

bed with fish suppers laid out on their laps, but Renton's is untouched.

He takes Renton's fish supper and adds it to his own.

INT. LEFT LUGGAGE ROOM. DAY

Renton drops his passport into an envelope and throws the envelope into a

locker. He turns the key and pockets it. RENTON (v.o)

EXT. BUSY LONDON ROAD. DAY

Traffic floods past as before.

INT. LONDON FLAT. DAY

Inside the flat that Renton showed the couple around. Sick Boy and Begbie

are standing in the hallway. Renton is in the open doorway. He throws them

the keys and leaves.

INT. LONDON BEDSIT. NIGHT

The cramped bedsit is a mess, filled with litter and unwashed clothes.

Renton lies on his bed, content to be alone.

INT. LONDON FLAT. NIGHT

The flat is in darkness. The door opens a figure enters. It is the man from

Renton's office.

Man is followed by another couple. He switches on a light.

From nowhere, Begbie and Sick Boy spring out at him.

----------

INT. BEDSIT. DAY

Renton looks around the stripped, empty bedsit one last time before closing

the door as he leaves.

----------

EXT. RAILWAY. DAY

An InterCity train speeds by.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. NIGHT

A kitten sits on the floor.

INT. CREMATORIUM CHAPEL. DAY

A service is in progress. Those present include Renton and Gav, who are

engaged in hushed conversation, Begbie, Spud, Sick Boy, and Lizzy.

He indicated Lizzy. Lizzy wouldn't let him near the house. So he brought a

present for her, brought her a kitten.

INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. DAY

The kitten as before. Slow track back to reveal more.

The lower half of Tommy's clothed body is visible.

INT. CREMATORIUM CHAPEL. DAY

The coffin travels away. Gav and Renton watch it go.

INT. PUB I. NIGHT

Gav, Renton, Spud, Sick Boy, Begbie and a few others are gathered in the

pub, still dressed in their funeral garb.

----------

----------

There is a short silence before Spud begins softly singing 'Two Little

Boys'. He finishes unaccompanied.

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. NIGHT

Spud, Begbie, and Renton are seated. Sick Boy is handing around bottles of

beer before he too sits down. They are all wearing their funeral garb.

Renton raises his bottle.

They all drink.

There is silence.

----------

EXT. STREET. DAY

Renton is visible first, apparently talking to himself, then Diane.

Renton thinks it over.

They both laugh.

----------

INT. SWANNEY'S FLAT. DAY

Heroin is in the process of being prepared for injection: heated, drawn up,

etc. An arm is prepared for injection: sleeve rolled up, tourniquet bound,

veins tapped, etc. Mikey forrester, Sick Boy, Spud, and Begbie look on.

Renton injects the heroin into a vein in his arm.

It's good, it's fucking good.

----------

EXT. BUS STATION. NIGHT

Renton walks past a Beggar huddling against a wall. The Beggar's sign reads:

'FALKLANDS VETERAN. I LOST MY LEG FOR MY COUNTRY. PLEASE HELP.' The beggar

is Swanney.

----------

EXT. ROAD. NIGHT

The bus travels towards London.

INT. BUS. NIGHT

Sick Boy dabs at amphetamine. Spud drinks.

INT. BUS TOILET. NIGHT

Renton cooks up in the bus toilet.

INT. BUS. NIGHT

Begbie sits grimly. The others are relaxed.

EXT. LONDON. DAY

The bus travels through London.

EXT. STREET. DAY

The gang enter a cheap hotel. Begbie's bag contains the heroin.

INT. HOTEL. DAY

They are met by Andreas, a man in his late thirties of Mediterranean

appearance. He shakes Sick Boy's hand.

Andreas leads them along a corridor and into a room.

INT. HOTEL ROOM. DAY

An exceptional Man is waiting. Andreas leaves the room and closes the door.

The Man opens both and tastes the heroin. He produces a set of kitchen

scales from his bag and weighs the two bags.

The man shakes his head and lights a cigarette.

The deal is done. The Man hands over the money and waits as it is counted,

then leaves with the drugs.

INT. LONDON PUB. DAY

The pub is crowded with afternoon drinkers. Renton, Spud, Sick Boy and

Begbie sit drinking. Begbie is still keeping a firm hand on the sports bag,

which now holds the money.

Begbie stands up.

Sick Boy walks away towards the toilet.

Begbie walks away to the bar. Spud and Renton look at each other and the bag

of money.

Spud looks at the bag and around the pub towards the toilet door and Begbie.

Begbie stands at the bar, awaiting the pints.

Renton looks around.

Spud says nothing. Suddenly they are interrupted.

Sick Boy sits down.

Renton turns to see Begbie making his way through the crowd with the pints

helf precariously. As he reaches the table a Man standing with a group of

friends accidentally nudges Begbie, causing a pint to spill over him.

Begie drops the remaining three pints. As the Man looks down to the falling

glasses, Begbie punches him in the face and knees him in the groin. A fight

breaks out between the Man and Begbie. Sick Boy rushes forward to restrain

Begbie. Renton sits still, not even looking at the fight or what follows.

His eyes are fixed on the bag while his hands fiddle. Begbie stabs Spud in

the hand.

Begbie, blade still in hand, addresses the entire pub.

Nobody says anything. Renton is seated as before, avoiding Begbie's gaze.

Begbie addresses him.

Renton does not move.

(to Spud)

(to Sick Boy)

(to Renton)

Renton swivels and stands up.

Renton lifts the bag and slowly approaches Begbie. Renton, nervous, hand

shaking, pulls a packet of cigarettes from a pocket and holds it towards

Begbie. Begbie does not move. Renton holds out the bag. Begbie takes it. Now

Renton selects a cigarette and hands it over to Begbie. Begbie inhales

deeply and then blows the smoke towards Renton

INT. HOTEL ROOM. DAY

Renton lies awake, sharing a bed with Sick Boy, who is asleep. Spud and

Begbie lie on the other, both asleep. Begbie has an arm draped over the bag,

holding it close. Renton gets up and goes to the small bathroom. He puts the

light on above the mirror and looks at himself. He washes his face and

drinks a glass of water, then walks back to the bedroom. Renton pulls on his

jacket and shoes. He stands over Begbie, then reaches carefully down to life

Begbie's arm up. As he does so he realizes that Spud is watching him. They

say nothing. Renton takes the bag. Begbie stirs but does not wake.

----------

Renton looks down at Spud for a moment before unzipping the bag. He pulls

out a small wad of cash, which he hands to Spud. Spud tucks the wad away.

----------

Renton walks to the door and opens it. He nods to Spud, then disappears.

INT. LOCKER. DAY

Envelope being removed.

INT. LEFT LUGGAGE. DAY

Renton takes the passport from the envelope.

EXT. STREET. DAY

Renton walks away.

INT. HOTEL. DAY

Prostitutes, punters, Sick Boy and Spud line the corridor as two Policement

walk past towards:

INT. HOTEL ROOM. DAY

Begbie goes radge.

EXT. STREET. DAY

