<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

unbreakable

INT. CLOTHING STORE - AFTERNOON

Women's casual wear department. J.C. Penny.

Legend "1961"

An African-American man carrying two J.C. Penny shopping bags is ushered past the

department store managers and security guards on walkies that have gathered at

the entrance to the woman's dressing rooms.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - AFTERNOON

A bed has been formed by a chair and three benches.

A STRIKING AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMAN in her twenties lays across it. Her face and

clothes are covered in sweat. Her skirt is stained.

She holds something wrapped in a soft sweatshirt on her chest. We can't see it,

but WE HEAR THE BABY CRYING.

She's just given birth.

There are three frazzled saleswomen in the dressing room with her. They watch her

with quiet smiles.

A fourth SALESWOMAN arrives ushering in the man with the shopping bags.

DR. MATHISON looks over the scene and then directly at the striking woman.

The woman nods, "Yes." Sweat trickles down her face. THE BABY'S PIERCING CRIES

ECHO IN THE SMALL ROOM.

Dr. Mathison puts down his shopping bags and moves to her. He kneels down and

gestures for the bundle of sweatshirts in her arms.

Beat. The woman smiles for the first time.

She hands him the wrapped child. We can't see the baby, but THE PIERCING CRIES

SEEM TO GET LOUDER.

The doctor lowers the baby to his lap and unwraps him.

The woman can't see her baby anymore. She watches Dr. Mathison as he looks down

and examines her child. Beat. Dr. Mathison doesn't look up for the longest time.

THE BABY'S CRYING IS RELENTLESS. UNNERVING. Beat.

The doctor finally glances up. He looks shaken. He makes eye contact with the

woman for only a second. It's enough. A chill goes through her body.

He looks to the three saleswomen who were in the room.

His hard stare unsettles the women. The OLDER SALESWOMAN speaks up.

Everyone becomes very still. The mother looks like she stopped breathing. THE

BABY'S SCREAMING ENGULFS THE ROOM.

Beat.

The BABY SCREAMS.

The doctor whispers something to himself, we can't hear. He looks up to the

saleswoman who brought him in.

Dr. Mathison turns back to the mother. Beat.

EXT. TRAIN STATION NEW JERSEY - DAY

LEGEND "PRESENT DAY"

A fountain of humanity bubbles up from the escalators to the train platform.

Businessmen take their last desperate drags of their cigarettes... Women

traveling with children herd their luggage and offspring into tight shapes as

they move... College students with backpacks look around dazed at the various

track numbers.

A face inside the train watches the stream of passengers emerging from the

escalators. DAVID DUNNE, a man in his early forties, rest his temple against the

glass and quietly observes the movement outside.

The train starts to pull out.

INT. PASSENGER CAR - DAY

David sits with his coat on his lap. He's wearing a tie. He doesn't look very

comfortable in it.

He feels a stare. He looks up to find a girl, six or seven years old, peering at

him from over the seat in front of him. She just gazes at him blankly.

He gives her a small forced smile. She doesn't react. David returns his head to

the window.

His eyes begin to shut with the lulling movement of the train.

David looks in the direction of THE VOICE. A WOMAN with dark hair and light blue

eyes stands in the aisle with two bags over her shoulder. She's wearing a tight

white t-shirt and jeans. She's beautiful.

David nods "yes."

The woman starts putting her bags on the shelf above the seats. She stretches to

get them up. Her toned stomach is exposed. She has a silver ring pierced through

her navel.

David has a gold ring on his hand. He fiddles with it. Beat. He gently slips off

his wedding band. It goes into his coat pocket.

The woman takes the seat next to him.

Beat. A LOUD VIOLENT BURST OF SOUND. The passenger car shakes as a passing

train barrels by two feet from David's window. It passes in a few seconds. The

car returns to a QUIET HUM.

David pulls a magazine out from the seat pocket in front of him.

He holds the woman's fashion magazine out.

The woman looks over the one being offered and then points to the Sports

Illustrated peeking out of the seat pocket.

David pulls the magazine out and gives it to her.

The woman laughs.

Beat.

Beat. David studies the excitement in her eyes.

ANOTHER LOUD VIOLENT BURST OF SOUND. David waits till the opposing train passes.

The woman goes back to her magazine. Beat.

The woman looks up.

She goes back to the magazine.

Beat.

KELLY looks up from her Sports Illustrated. Her striking blue eyes gaze at David.

Beat.

She holds up her hand. Taps the diamond ring on her finger.

Beat.

An awkward silence.

The woman stares at David. She looks down. Beat. Closes the magazine.

Kelly gets up. She balances herself against a headrest as the train rumbles. She

starts to the back of the car.

David sits alone. He looks like he's drowning, but there's no water.

He feels a stare. He glances up. The little girl spies on him from between the

seats.

David leans towards the window to avoid eye contact. His hand reaches into his

coat and slides out his wedding band. He puts it back on.

His temple touches the glass. The vibration of the train begins to lull his eyes

closed... Beat.

David's head bounces lightly against the window.

The shaking of the glass never allows David's eyes to completely close.

He sits up when he realizes the shaking is getting stronger.

He looks out the window. The scenery blurs as it flies by. Beat.

David turns. Some of the other passengers start to react as they realize the

train is picking up speed.

The normal bumps of the tracks become amplified.

The WORRIED VOICES OF THE TRAVELERS START FILL THE CABIN.

The train goes faster.

AND THEN THE HIGH PITCHED METAL ON METAL SCREECHING STARTS AS THE TRAIN BEGINS TO

TAKE A CURVE.

David's eyes move to the seat in front of him. The little girl is no longer

watching him.

DAVID LOOKS TO THE PASSENGERS ACROSS FROM HIM. He sees the ground slowly drop

away in the windows behind them as THEIR SIDE OF THE TRAIN STARTS TO RISE...

THE PASSENGERS SCREAM AS THE AMTRAK PASSENGER TRAIN BEGINS TO TILT OFF THE

TRACK...

INT. FAMILY ROOM - AFTERNOON

A boy, age ten, sits on his head on the family couch and watches television

upside down. His floppy brown hair spreads out in a circle in front of his red

face. He changes channels with a remote control.

He moves past the upside down cartoons and the upside down talk shows. He stops

on an upside down picture of a crashed train. Beat.

His knees come forward as he flips over. He tumbles slowly off the couch and onto

the carpet. JEREMY DUNNE gazes at the television screen... A LIVE AERIAL VIEW OF

A TRAIN WRECK SMOULDERING BELOW IS SEEN. Two trains are tangled like snakes.

Jeremy gets up and moves to a small table with a phone. Next to the phone is a

notepad. On it is written...

"Dad - Amtrak 177 - 3:40pm."

Jeremy looks at the television. At the bottom of the screen in red block letters

that move from right to left are words and numbers..."The 3:40 Amtrak 177 has

derailed... Amtrak Emergency number is 1-800-777-4322... The 3:40 Amtrak 177 has

derailed...Amtrak"

Jeremy doesn't take his eyes off the screen. He makes a small desperate noise

that no one hears.

INT. PHYSICAL THERAPY CENTER - LATE AFTERNOON

An elderly woman can't hold back any longer and SCREAMS. An embarrassed, tortured

helpless scream.

MEGAN DUNNE continues applying pressure to her arm which is being pushed back as

far as it will go.

She counts to three and eases off. She lays her arm back in her lap.

WE ARE IN A PHYSICAL THERAPY CENTER. About a dozen people are on specialized

weight machines.

The elderly woman is seated on an exercise table and breathes slowly.

Beat. VIRGINIA shakes her head, "No."

Megan reaches up to the t.v. monitor mounted on the wall. She turns it on and

starts flipping channels. She stops on ESPN where a swimming meet is underway.

Men in bikini swimsuits line the edges of the pool.

Virginia starts watching with great interest.

Megan's eyes move to the tiny print moving across the bottom of the screen. Her

face goes still as she reads the train number... 177.

INT. EMERGENCY ROOM - AFTERNOON

DAVID DUNNE'S EYES SLOWLY OPEN. THE DULL WHITE OF THE OVERHEAD TUBE LIGHTING

BLINDS HIM AT FIRST.

He blinks his vision back. He realizes he's in a bed.

WE HEAR AGITATED VOICES, MOVEMENT.

David looks around. He's in an emergency room. There are a half dozen prep areas

and beds next to him. They're all empty.

DAVID FOLLOWS THE URGENT SOUNDS OF ACTIVITY TO A PREP AREA DIRECTLY ACROSS FROM

HIM.

He can only see glimpses of activity through the drawn curtain. A group of

emergency room personnel are treating a man whose body is twitching violently on

a gurney.

One of the group is a man who glances through the opening in the curtain. He

notices David sitting up from across the room.

THE MAN IN SCRUBS leaves the group and walks over.

He FLASHES A LIGHT in David's eyes.

David stares across as the scene with the other patients becomes more frantic and

disturbing.

David watches the other patient.

David turns to the man.

Beat.

David looks to the other passenger now laying unnaturally still in the desperate

whirlwind of activity around him.

Beat.

David turns and stares at the man.

INT. EMERGENCY RECEPTION AREA - EVENING

David moves through the depressing milky corridors of the hospital. He opens a

set of double doors.

A room crammed with cameras and photographers explodes with movement.

A CHILD'S VOICE BREAKS THEIR NOISE.

Jeremy Dunne pushes forward through the mob of people and cameras. He bursts out

and runs to David. He wraps his arms around David's waist. David just stands

there, aware that the cameras are catching it all. He's overwhelmed.

Hospital staff and a couple police officers push the media back.

Jeremy tugs David to lean down. He does.

David looks at his son's face. Wipes the tears on his cheek.

A woman moves to them. David stands up and faces Megan Dunne.

David looks at Megan's eyes.

Megan looks away.

They stand there for a moment. David looks shaken. Jeremy takes hold of his hand.

Megan nods. They move to the exit. The pack of cameras and reporters burst to

life as they leave the building. They jockey for position to get a last glimpse

of David Dunne.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

David eats a bowl of pasta alone in a modest kitchen. He stares at his hand.

Opens and closes it slowly. Beat.

He rises and puts the bowl away in the sink.

INT. FRONT HALL - NIGHT

David stops just before rising the stairs. He glances into a bedroom at the

bottom of the stairs. The doorway is half open. He makes eye contact with his

wife. Beat.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat. Megan slowly closes the door to the guest bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

David looks at his son asleep in his bed.

Beat. Jeremy doesn't answer because he's asleep. David rubs his forehead and gets

up. He turns on the t.v., low volume, as he moves into the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Hot water rushes over David's face as he stands in the shower. His attention is

drawn to the t.v. which is seen through the slightly open bathroom door.

He turns off the water to HEAR.

David steps out of the shower. He sees a glimpse of Jeremy asleep in bed. David

shuts the door. Locks it.

He gets back into the shower and turns the water back on.

He closes his eyes. His face tightens up. He slowly hunches down and takes a seat

on the tiled floor of the shower. Water pours over him. Beat.

His muscular body begins to shake. Then we realize he's crying.

EXT. FAIR - DAY

LEGEND "1969"

A hazy afternoon. A fair has come into town. They have set up in the vast parking

lot of the local high school.

A line of women has formed in front of the portable bathrooms.

The striking African American woman we saw giving birth is now standing in line.

She is older and somehow more beautiful.

She stands with a skinny, almost ethereal looking African American boy. The boy

wears a metal brace on his leg. THE EIGHT YEAR OLD ELIJAH holds two oversized

stuffed animals in his arms. He looks back over his shoulder as THE SOUND OF

VOICES YELLING IN EXCITEMENT FILL THE AIR. His eyes dance over the many colorful

rides in the parking lot.

The door opens to one of the portable bathrooms. A woman steps out.

Elijah's mother touches his head and enters the three foot square plastic

bathroom. She turns back and gives him a look.

Elijah nods, "Yes" happily.

The mother closes the cubicle door. Elijah is left alone amongst the line of

women. They stare at him blankly. Their eyes moves over his leg brace. Elijah

doesn't like it. He moves away from the line.

A CRESCENDO OF CHEERS RISES IN THE AIR FROM SOMEWHERE IN THE FAIR. Elijah follows

the voices. He carries the stuffed animals through the crowds of people. CLICK.

CLICK. CLICK. His metal brace sounds as he walks.

For a moment, he sees nothing but bodies all around him.

He emerges amongst a huddle of teenagers who wait at a turnstile.

A man in a red and white striped coat takes their tickets and waves them in.

Elijah looks up and sees the sign above the turnstile... "The Hurricane."

He watches the teenagers giggle as they each into a grey cup-like seat. They pull

the metal bars down in front of them.

The man in the red and white stripes leaves the turnstile.

Elijah stares up at the multi-colored sign. Beat. He moves quickly. Ducks under

the turnstile and climbs onto the platform.

Elijah finds and empty circular seat. He slips inside the gray metal compartment

and sits. He pulls down the rusted metal bar in front of him.

He looks around at all the excited faces. His eyes fill with excitement too.

His small hands feel the cold metal of the interior of the compartment. His

expression changes.

Elijah looks to the stuffed animals in his arms. He presses them to check their

softness. He places the stuffed animals on either side of him on the seat. He's

wedged in between them. Feels good.

He reaches out and touches the hard rusted metal bar in front of him. Elijah

looks a little anxious. Beat.

He pulls off his sweater and wraps it around the bar. It goes around twice before

he ties the arms together. He checks its softness.

Elijah looks around the customized cup-like compartment he sits in. He smiles an

eight year old smile of pride.

AND THEN HE HEARS HIS MOTHER'S VOICE.

He searches around and finds her walking in the waves of people. He hears her

calling.

She moves in his direction by chance. She finds herself at the entrance to The

Hurricane ride. She looks up at the sign above the turnstile. Her worried eyes

immediately start searching the young faces in the gray circular compartments.

Her eyes meet Elijah's. He waves. Her face goes very still.

A HUGE ROAR OF MACHINERY as the ride starts up.

Elijah yells to his mother as the platform starts running.

HIS WORDS GET EATEN UP BY THE CHEERS OF THE TEENAGERS AND THE GRIND OF MACHINERY.

The platform spins. He sees a glimpse of his mother and the red and white striped

man. She's pointing at Elijah.

The platform turns... Elijah sees a flash of the red and white striped man's

angered face as he yells at the frantic woman next to him.

And then the ride speeds up.

The gray circular seats start to spin on their own. The teenagers CHEER.

Elijah's eyes fill with joy as the wind plays against his face.

Suddenly the ride changes directions. The cup-like seats get jerked. Everyone

grabs the metal bars to hold on.

Elijah laughs as he smashes into the stuffed animal on his right. It cushions him

and then falls to the floor of the compartment along with the other stuffed

animal.

Elijah's expression becomes tense as his compartment spins. His hands slide over

the rusted metal bar as the sweater unravels.

Elijah looks around... a sudden panic enters his eyes.

THE BLURRING IMAGE OF HIS MOTHER NOW IN A GROUP OF RED AND WHITE STRIPED MEN.

THE SOUND OF MACHINERY GRINDING IS HEARD as the ride changes directions

suddenly.

Elijah's hands rip away from the bar as he gets thrown to the side of the

compartment. His shoulder and arm takes the brunt of the impact. WE HEAR

SOMETHING CRACK.

TEENAGERS SCREAM IN EXCITEMENT. ELIJAH JOINS THEM WITH SCREAMS OF HIS OWN.

The ride spins its passengers. Elijah's small face looks up at the swirling

clouds in a mixture of agony and terror.

The ride changes directions.

Elijah is thrust forward. He hits the rusted metal bar square against his chest.

WE HEAR MORE CRACKS.

The world spins. Giggles and yells fill the air. Elijah slumps down onto the

floor of the compartment.

And then finally, the grind of the machinery slows and then comes to a gradual

stop.

THE TEENAGERS MOAN.

Elijah is facing directly up at the sky. The clouds now move slowly over him.

WE HEAR COMMOTION. AGITATED VOICES. HIS MOTHER'S DESPERATE VOICE.

HER VOICE GETS LOUDER AS SHE MOVES CLOSER TO THE PLATFORM.

Then her face appears as she finds the cup-like seat Elijah is in. She begins to

scream.

Elijah lays on the bottom of the compartment. One arm is clutching his chest. The

other is curved horrifically like an "s". His mouth is open. His eyes are

bulging. The last thing we HERE ARE THE SHORT DESPERATE BREATHS of an eight year

old child about to black out from the pain.

PRESENT: EXT. CHURCH - AFTERNOON

WE EMERGE FROM BLACK to find news vans and reporters lining the street across

from a church. They have been cordoned off by a handful of police. Mourners are

recorded as they emerge from their cars and enter the church.

David is among the arriving crowd.

At hearing his name, David turns back as he walks. He can't tell which reporter

called his name because all of them seem to react. A storm of camera movement as

the group jockeys for the best angle of his troubled face.

David passes a magnetic board as he enters the church. It reads, "Services for

the families and friends of train 177."

INT. CHURCH - AFTERNOON

A PRIEST stands before a podium.

David sits amongst the mourners in the standing room only church. His eyes drift

to a woman two rows ahead of him. She's turned around, looking at him. Her eyes

are red  from crying.

David looks away. His eyes stop on an old man far to his left just a few seats

away. Father, mother and daughter stare silently.

David surveys the entire church... Desperate inconsolable eyes question his

existence from every direction.

David has to look down.

INT. BACK OF CHURCH - AFTERNOON

David and the priest who conducted the mass are alone in the mass preparation

room. The priest looks in his fifties, eyes tired, blood shot.

Beat.

David nods, "No."

The priest removes the sacred stoll from his around his neck and kisses it before

folding it carefully.

Beat. The priest turns to David.

Beat.

David just sits awkwardly.

David nods, "Yes."

David is shaken. Beat.

Beat. The priest's eyes fill with emotion.

The priest turns and continues putting away artifacts from the mass. Silence

fills the back room.

INT. CHURCH PARKING LOT - LATE AFTERNOON

No cameras greet his exit. No people anywhere.

David walks across the now empty parking lot. His car is the only one left.

He walks to the driver's side. Pulls out his keys. That's as far as he gets.

His eyes catch sight of the GRAY ENVELOPE tucked under the windshield wiper of

his car.

David moves forward and gently pulls it out. His name is typed on the front. He

turns it over. Two embossed words on the back.

He opens the envelope. One line, handwritten, gazes at him from the gray index

card.

The line reads...

How many days of your life have you been sick?

"

Nothing else is written.

David Dunne looks around the empty parking lot quietly.

INT. EMPLOYEE LOCKER ROOM - MORNING

A poorly lit changing room. A row of metallic lockers sits against one wall. A

bench splits the room. A brown folding table with Dunkin Donuts boxes and bagels

on it is crammed in the corner. A puke colored concrete floor sets the tone.

David and three other large men are changing out of their street clothes. They

all put on the same yellow short sleeve shirts. The same two words are written on

all their backs...

"Stadium Security"

This ritual goes on without a word.

INT. MAIN STADIUM CORRIDOR - MORNING

David walks along the massive curved wall around the outer rim of the stadium. As

he passes the different walkways we get glimpses of the enormous and empty

sixty-thousand seat football stadium on the inside.

David stops at a door marked "PERSONNEL".

INT. PERSONNEL OFFICE - MORNING

David knocks on the door as he steps into the cramped reception room to the

personnel office.

The SECRETARY, an ancient woman with thick flabby arms never stops typing and

never looks up as she talks.

Beat.

The ancient secretary's right hand immediately picks up a pen and positions it

over a blank pad. Her left hand keeps typing. She never looks up.

Beat.

EXT. STADIUM FIELD - AFTERNOON

Rain falls in sheets in the stadium.

David stands at the entrance to a tunnel that empties out onto the field. He

stands in an imposing dark green rain poncho and hood. The poncho almost touches

the ground. The word 'security' on the back has almost faded away. We can barely

see David's face under the hood.

There is a football game in progress on the enormous field. The players seem

unusually small. There is no one in the stands. About four hundred people are on

the sidelines of the field watching the players. A soggy limping banner stretched

behind them declares, "The Pennslvania Elementary School Championships."

David's eyes scan the tiny figures on the field. His eyes come rest on a surge of

activity on the sidelines. Beat.

David steps out into the rain.

EXT. SIDELINES - AFTERNOON

A handful of red faced fathers are yelling at each other. They're in each other's

rain soaked faces. The scene feels on the verge of physical violence.

David and another security guard jog over. David steps in the middle of the tight

circle. The men stop yelling in the presence of stadium security. Everyone just

stands in the rain glaring at each other. Beat.

Nobody moves. Rain washes over the agitated faces. A father breaks the moment.

David tenses. Everyone looks to JERRY. A bald man who stands just a foot away.

Jerry nods to himself. Looks like he's going to say something. Instead he lunges

forward and smashes a HEADBUTT to the man who spoke to him.

David tackles Jerry hard and fast. He drives him into the ground.

Blood starts rushing out of the nose of the dazed father who took the headbutt.

The other fathers start yelling and pushing each other. The remaining security

guard calls on his walkie for assistance.

David keeps Jerry immobilized in a powerful arm and head lock that holds the

man's enraged face hard into the wet surface of the field.

David's eyes are not on Jerry. They gaze out onto the field where twenty two

elementary school boys have stopped playing and are standing frozen, helmets off,

rain washing over their faces. They watch in horror as their parents attack each

other on the sidelines.

INT. EMPLOYEE LOCKER ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

David is the last one left. He's showered and back in his street clothes. He sits

in the dimly lit room on the bench, lost in his thoughts when the door opens.

He turns to find a somewhat pregnant looking man with a tie step in. This is

NOEL.

Beat. He just stares.

David turns on the bench.

Silence.

The room is still. Beat.

Beat. David nods, "Yes."

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

LIGHTS OUT.

David is wide awake in his bed. He glances over. Jeremy is in deep sleep next to

him.

INT. GUEST ROOM - NIGHT

David knocks again quietly. The guest bedroom door opens.

Megan looks up at David. She's just woken up.

Beat. They both stand awkwardly for a moment.

Megan nods, "Yes."

Megan tries to mask her reaction to the oddness of the question. Beat.

ever

Beat.

Beat.

David becomes quiet as he thinks. Beat.

David seems lost in his thoughts.

David stares at Megan. Beat.

There's silence for a bit.

David half-smiles as Megan turns and starts back into the guest room.

Megan looks back at her husband. Just for a moment. Then she looks down.

Megan closes the door slowly shut.

INT. BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

WE EMERGE in a cramped sparse bedroom.

LEGEND "1974"

A thirteen year old Elijah sits in a chair with his arm in a sling. He watches a

small black and white television in the corner of the room.

WE HEAR FOOTSTEPS. Elijah's mother walks into the room. She looks around for a

moment, and then moves to the television. Turns it off.

The room GOES SILENT.

Elijah just sits staring at the dark television screen.

Elijah's face is tense. Unyielding. Beat.

Elijah's mother says the next words in almost a whisper.

Elijah's eyes move from the television to his mother. He sees the emotion in her

face. Neither says anything for a while. Beat.

Elijah thinks it over. He nods, "Yes."

Elijah looks at his mother with disbelief.

She points to the window. Beat. Elijah gets up and moves to the only window in

the room.

The view from his room looks out over a narrow street. On the other side of the

street is a public playground. A handful of children are playing on it.

There are three benches to one side of the swings. On one of them is a THIN

PACKAGE wrapped in brown paper with a bow on it.

Elijah looks to his mom who has joined him at the window.

Beat.

EXT. PLAYGROUND - AFTERNOON

Elijah walks across the playground. He's very wary of the other children running

about him.

He walks towards the bench with the present on it. Takes a seat. Puts the package

on his lap. It's flat. The edges of the bend down over his thin legs.

He undoes the white bow. He peels off the clear tape holding the brown paper

together. He unfolds the paper. Beat.

Elijah stares down at the single comic book in his lap.

He feels the shadow of his mother. She takes a seat next to him.

Beat.

Elijah looks to his mother. His intelligent piercing eyes take her in for a

moment.

He looks back down at his lap. He opens the first page...

INT. STORE - DAY

The same intelligent piercing eyes, twenty-five years older. Elijah has grown

into a handsome, regal looking man. He leans on a walking stick.

He's looking at an impressively framed charcoal sketch on a wall. Two figures are

depicted on the top of a building locked in fierce battle. One figure is

extremely muscular with a mask. The other is half human, half animal.

Elijah glances at the BUSINESS MAN standing next to him and then back to the

sketch.

The business man rubs his face. Gazes at the sketch. Beat.

Elijah starts to the back of the store which we now see is some type of art

gallery where all the framed pictures are images and sketches from comic books.

Elijah jams his walking stick into the extra thick carpet and stops. He turns.

Elijah starts back to the businessman shaking his head strongly.

Elijah's eyes pierce through the shaken man.

Elijah points at the sketch.

The business man stares at the sketch with large eyes. Beat.

Beat.

Elijah just stares.

Elijah eyes the man for many seconds. Beat.

Elijah starts to the back. He passes the front door as two customers walk in.

Elijah talks over his shoulder to them.

Elijah turns and faces the customers for the first time. David Dunne stands with

Jeremy.

Elijah just stands staring for the longest time. Beat. He walks closer to them.

When Elijah speaks, his voice has a whispery quality to it.

David and Elijah quietly look at each other. Beat.

EXT. LIMITED EDITION - LATE AFTERNOON

Three chairs have been placed on the walkway in front of the bay window of the

store. The words, "Limited Edition" are etched in the window.

David, Jeremy and Elijah are seated watching the people stroll by. Elijah's cane

is on his lap.

Jeremy sips a drink in a paper cup.

Jeremy raises his hand.

Jeremy and David raise their hands.

Elijah stares at his two rapt listeners.

Beat.

David nods.

Beat. Elijah looks shaken.

Elijah closes his eyes. When his eyes open, the life force in them has

diminished. Beat.

Elijah uses his cane to get up and walk back through the doors of the store.

INT. LIMITED EDITION - LATE AFTERNOON

David and Jeremy enter the store. Elijah leans on a walking stick before one of

the framed sketches. He gazes at it quietly.

Elijah turns.

David stares at Elijah impatiently.

Elijah gazes at David.

Beat.

Elijah points at the framed comic sketches.

Jeremy looks down at the paper cup in his hands.

David waits for Jeremy to exit the store. Beat.

David glares at Elijah.

David shakes his head. He smiles out of frustration. Beat.

Elijah stares carefully at David. Beat. David glances over to the entrance.

Jeremy watched through the window concerned.

Elijah watches David walk towards the front door.

David opens the door. He looks back at Elijah.

Beat.

Beat. David closes the door behind him. Elijah watches through the window as

Jeremy takes David's hand as they cross the street.

Elijah gazes out the window in a bit of a daze.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

ALL LIGHTS ARE OUT EXCEPT THE SMALL BEDSIDE LAMP ON DAVID'S SIDE.

David sits up in bed staring at a torn section of newspaper in his hands.

Jeremy is asleep horizontally with his legs over David's legs.

David doesn't blink as he gazes at the headline silently...

Beat. David slides out from under his son's legs. Jeremy stirs but doesn't wake

up.

David moves to the darkness of the corner of the room. He opens a closet door.

A NAKED HANGING BULB GOES ON as David yanks a chain. David steps inside the

narrow closet and closes the door slightly so the LIGHT FROM THE BULB DOESN'T

FALL ON JEREMY.

There's just enough room to stand and look around. David reaches up and pulls a

small travel bag out of the way. David stretches as he feels on the top shelf.

His hand comes down with something wrapped in a t-shirt. He unwraps it. It's a

handgun.

He stares at it for a beat before wrapping it back up and replacing it to the

highest shelf.

He stretches even more. Reaches farther back. WE HEAR SOMETHING SLIDE ON THE

SHELF AS HE PULLS IT FORWARD.

He pulls down a folder jammed with clippings. He opens the folder to reveal a

young David in football uniform holding his helmet in the air victoriously. The

word "Champion" is written over his head. David flips through the top clippings

- all are images and stories of David and football.

He turns the pile over. Goes to the last clipping. This piece of paper is folded

over three times, unlike the others. He opens it.

It's a newspaper headline. It reads...

"CAR ACCIDENT LEAVES TWO INJURED"

David puts the new headline next to the old one... They look like a set. Even the

font is similar.

David stares at the old headline. Stares hard at the photo of the bent and

heavily damaged car laying upside down in the middle of the highway... The bulb

seems to flicker. David is utterly still.

SOMEONE KNOCKS AT THE BEDROOM DOOR. David gets startled.

He puts back the clippings. Stuffing the new one inside with them. He replaces it

back to the top shelf and leaves the closet.

ANOTHER SOFT SET OF KNOCKS as David moves across the bedroom. He opens the door.

Megan stands in the darkened hall. Beat.

Megan nods. Beat.

Beat.

David nods, "yes."

been

Beat. David stares at his wife.

Beat. David doesn't say anything. He just nods, "No."

Megan's face starts to tremble. She starts crying. Tears roll over her very

affected face. She tries to wipe them away, but there's too many. Beat.

Megan nods and walks down the stairs as she wipes her face. David watches her

disappear into the shadows.

EXT.  VETERAN'S STADIUM - AFTERNOON

Sunday afternoon. The cavernous stadium opens up into a picture perfect blue sky.

The Philadelphia Eagles pro football players are in uniform and doing stretches

on the field. The opposing team warms up on the other end of the field.

The sixty thousand seats are already half filled as fans stream in on every level

of the stadium.

EXT. ENTRANCE GATE 27B - AFTERNOON

A line of ticket holders snakes towards two turnstiles where stadium crew are

ripping tickets.

David Dunne stands to one side with two other security guards.

The fans moving through the turnstiles are clad in all types of Eagles

paraphernalia. A group of girls carries a homemade banner that David reads as he

tilts his head sideways. "We sleep with quarterbacks," is written in block

letters.

David stares at a woman carrying a newborn infant in her arms. The baby is

wearing an eagles uniform.

The WALKIE TALKIE on David's hip bursts to life. He pulls it off his hip an

listens.

Beat.

EXT. ENTRANCE GATE 17C - AFTERNOON

David finds Elijah waiting to the side as the crowds funnel through the gate.

Elijah offers his hand as he walks up. David doesn't take it.

Elijah offers him the ticket. David inspects it.

David hands Elijah back the ticket.

David looks around.

Beat.

Beat. Elijah smiles.

David fights it. But he smiles anyway. Beat.

David's walkie makes NOIES on his hip.

David stares at Elijah leaning on his walking stick.

EXT. ENTRANCE GATE 27B - AFTERNOON

The line of fans outside the gate has tripled in size and intensity.

David and Elijah move along the line towards the turnstiles.

David bumps a guy in line wearing an army jacket. David looks backs at him and

continues walking.

David moves to a security guard near the turnstiles.

David walks to his post near the gate and faces the crowd. Elijah moves next to

him.

Elijah observes as a security team pats down random males as they move through

the turnstiles.

The GREEN ARMY JACKETED MAN moves forward in the line. His face is blank as he

watches the pat down ahead of him. He's twenty people from the turnsstile.

David eyes him. Fifteen people away... Ten...

The man coughs and steps out of the line. Elijah watches the green army jacket

melt into the thick part of the crowd and disappear as it moves away from the

stadium.

INT. STADIUM TUNNEL - AFTERNOON

AN UNLIT arched concrete passageway. The SUNLIGHT from the stadium streams in

causing long shadows.

Elijah stands waiting in the ground tunnel by himself.

THE THUNDEROUS CHEERS OF THE SIXTY THOUSAND FANS IN THE STADIUM ECHOES FROM THE

FIELD INTO THE TUNNEL.

David enters the tunnel and joins Elijah. He hands him a ticket.

Beat.

Elijah stares at David. THE STADIUM CHEERS BOUNCE OFF THE GRAY WALLS.

Beat.

Beat.

David exhales slowly as he stares at Elijah.

David's WALKIE ERUPTS WITH NOISE.

Beat.

The two men stand very still in the tunnel.

David turns and starts down the hall. David talks back over his shoulder.

Elijah watches as the silhouetted figure of David Dunne jogs down the darkness of

the tunnel.

INT. CAR - LATE AFTERNOON

We are inside a customized car. The dashboard is covered in some sort of thin

foam padding. The steering wheel and gear shift have the same padding. Every

corner and hard surface has been safe guarded. Elijah sits behind the wheel of

his car in the parking lot of the stadium. He sits as thoughts crash at his head.

Beat.

He finally reaches for the keys and starts up the car. He looks into the rearview

mirror and sees the man in the GREEN ARMY JACKET pass behind his car.

Elijah quickly turns and sees the man moving through the parked cars heading out

of the parking lot.

Elijah takes a deep breath and turns off the engine.

EXT. PARKING LOT - LATE AFTERNOON

Elijah's walking stick makes RHYTHMIC CLICKS on the concrete parking lot.

The figure in the army jacket seems to move farther away with every step.

Elijah starts breathing harder. He pushes himself to move faster. He avoids the

hard chrome bumpers and tailpipes that jut out from the cars as he quickens his

pace through the lot.

He gains on the army jacket.

The man in the army jacket turns as he reaches a subway entrance that marks the

end of the parking lot. He looks back at Elijah for a beat. Doesn't like what he

sees. He disappears into the subway entrance.

Elijah quickens into a jog now. He hasn't done this in a while and it's painful.

He makes it with great strain to the subway.

He looks into the entrance...

A steep flight of stairs leads to the subway floor. The tail of the army jacket

is glimpsed before it disappears.

Elijah breathes hard as he takes hold of the railing.

Elijah's VOICE ECHOES down the stairs. No response.

Elijah starts his descent.

THE SOUND OF A SUBWAY PULLING IN ROARS UP THE STAIRS.

Elijah has to move fast. He takes the steps with less and less hesitation. He's

moving with great agility... and then his foot catches on a step.

His hand slips away from the railing...

He falls down the remaining part of the stairs. The FIRST SICKENING CRACK is

heard when his hand reaches out to stop his fall.

The SECOND CRACK IS MORE LIKE A CRUNCH AS HIS LEG LANDS AWKWARDLY ON THE METAL

STAIRS.

He comes to a stop in a pile on the dirty gum stained floor of the subway

landing. His jaw is locked in a HORRIFIC SCREAM THAT GETS EATEN BY THE ROAR OF

THE SUBWAY TRAIN PULLING IN.

His contorted anguished face sees the turnstiles of the subway upside down. The

green army jacketed man looks back at Elijah with a blank expression pushing

through the turnstile.

The last thing Elijah sees before he blacks out, is the tail of the man's coat

riding up as he move through the turnstile. The SILVER HANDLE OF A GUN peeks out

from the belt of his pants.

EXT. BUS STOP - DUSK

David's neighborhood turns crimson as the day comes to an end. The Septa bus

pulls to a stop in front of a public high school. David steps off, still in his

security clothes. The bus pulls away as he hears his SON'S VOICE.

David turns to the high school football field behind him. A group of children are

having a touch football game. Jeremy runs out from the huddle across the field to

David.

David nods, "No."

Jeremy nods.

David nods, "No."

David looks to the fields to see a very muscular college age man in sweats who

stands with the other children.

David stares at his son.

David watches the cornerback being surrounded by kids. He's letting a couple of

the kids feel his flexed bicep.

Jeremy turns back to the children and waves.

Jeremy turns back to his father and takes his hand. David looks down at his son

who waits patiently.

INT. BASEMENT - EARLY EVENING

The basement is dominated by storage boxes and Christmas decorations. An old

bench press and weights are in a cluttered corner.

David sits and turns at the end of the bench as Jeremy laboriously carries and

places fifteen a pound weight on the bar. David talks over his shoulder.

Jeremy goes to the opposite side of the bar and starts to put on another weight.

Jeremy is breathing hard as he puts the safety collars on the barbell and comes

around to David's end of the bench. David lays back.

David takes hold of the barbell. Beat. He takes a deep breath.

The weight comes off the armrests of the bench. David lowers it to his chest and

pushes it back up. He does just one more rep with serious strain. He puts the

weight back on the armrest and sits up.

David twists around and looks back at the barbell. He counts up the black metal

circles. He turns back to Jeremy.

David looks back at the weights.

Jeremy starts back to the barbell.

He slips off the safety collar.

David hears the SOUND OF THE WEIGHTS SLIDING OFF THE BAR BEHIND HIM.

Jeremy is breathing hard again as he finishes with the weights and comes around

to David.

David lays back.

David takes hold of the bar. Lifts it off the armrest. Brings it down. His arms

are straining hard again. He raises it and lowers it two time; it takes a sizable

effort. The weights bang down onto the armrest.

David sits up.

Beat.

Jeremy nods, "Yes" slowly.

David turns completely around and looks at the barbell. He counts the black discs

on the steel bar. Beat.

Nobody says anything for a long time.

David just stares at the black steel circles on the metal bar. Jeremy comes and

sits on the bench next to his father. They both stare at the weight. Beat.

Beat.

INT. BASEMENT - EARLY EVENING

David's fingers wrap around the cold metal of the bar. He leans his head forward

and looks to Jeremy.

Jeremy moves back to the bottom of the stairs leading up to the house. He waits.

Another deep breath as David heaves. The weight CLINKS as it comes off the arm

rest. David is full out straining now as he lowers and raises it. His arms begin

to tremble as he lifts it for the second time. BANG the weight lands back safely

onto the rest.

David sits up. He looks at his son whose eyes are wide. Beat.

Beat. David nods, "Yes."

INT. BASEMENT - EARLY EVENING

An enormous amount of black discs sits on the bar. David's hands are gripping the

metal.

He talks to Jeremy who stands in his position at the bottom of the stairs without

looking at him.

Jeremy nods, "Yes."

David nods, "yes" before starting his deep breathing. He takes one last breath.

CLINK the weights comes off the rest. His arms are trembling immediately now. His

face is locked in a grimace as he brings the bar down to his chest and back up

again two times before dropping it onto the armrest.

He slowly sits up.

Jeremy nods, "no" in a slight daze. Beat. David looks around his basement.

INT. BASEMENT - EARLY EVENING

A set of two unopened MAB satin finish paint cans are dangling by their metal

handles on the outside of each side of the weights.

The fours cans sway a little as the bar is heaved off of David's chest. His arms

are shaking hard. He raises the weight to it's apex and brings it down again. It

touches his chest and rises up again. David's red strained face exhales

powerfully as he straightens his arms.

The bar lands on the armrest with A CRASH. The paint cans make METAL SQUEAKS as

they swing to stillness, one at a time. Beat.

David sits up and turns back to the weights. His mouth moves as he calculates the

discs and the cans.

His lips stop moving. Beat.

David doesn't react.

It takes a second for David to register the question. He looks to his son. Beat.

David turns and looks at his son. Jeremy's mouth is slightly open. He gazes at

his dad. Awe in his tiny eyes.

INT. BATHROOM - EVENING

David sits on the edge of the bathroom tub. He's just showered and wearing jeans

and a t-shirt. He sits still with his elbows resting on his knees, staring at the

white tiles of the floor.

THE PHONE RINGS.

David gets up and walks out of the bathroom. He picks up the phone and stands in

the bathroom doorway.

Beat.

David looks at the phone. The lights for line ONE and line TWO are glowing RED.

David squints his eyes as he pieces together the situation. Beat.

He moves back into the bathroom. The cord stretches as he takes his seat on the

edge of the bathtub.

Beat.

Beat.

We hear A SOUND ON THE OTHER END OF THE PHONE. A SOUND MUCH LIKE AN EXHALE.

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - LATE EVENING

The local Chinese restaurant. Red and gold plastic dragons hang from the ceiling.

A couple late-nighters are at the bar. Megan and David are two of a handful of

people left dining in the restaurant. They're a little dressed up. Megan looks

kind of stunning.

David nods as he takes it in. Beat. He looks down at his plate and twirls his lo

mein onto a fork. Megan watches him.

David nods, "yes" before taking the bite.

David touches his mouth with his napkin.

David looks down at his napkin.

They both smile at each other. Beat.

David and Megan look over to the only other table of late night diners as they

get up from their table. A woman about Megan's age walks over to her.

CLAIRE smiles as she stares at David. She turns to Megan.

Claire turns back to David.

Megan becomes still.

Beat. David doesn't look up.

Beat. All three people become frozen in silence.

Claire looks to Megan.

Megan nods.

Claire quietly walks away form the table and joins her group as they leave the

restaurant. Beat.

Megan and David are the last one's left. They sit silently in their booth. Megan

looks at David's face. He's shaken.

He slowly takes a sip of water and then taps his mouth with napkin.

INT. FRONT DOOR - NIGHT

It's late. NO LIGHTS ARE ON EXCEPT THE ONE IN THE HALL. The babysitter has black

dyes hair and Buddy Holly glasses. David waits as she puts on her jacket.

David is not paying attention to the girl. He watches as his wife takes off her

coat and heads to the guest room. She turns before entering the room. David and

his wife make eye contact.

David nods. Megan goes into her room. The guest door closes softly.

David finds the babysitter looking at him with an odd expression.

David reaches into his wallet and hands the girl money.

David opens the front door for her.

The baby sitter nods with a smile as she walks out the front door.

INT. JEREMY'S BEDROOM

David walks into the darkened child's bedroom. The lump on the bed turns when he

hears movement. He smiles when he sees David.

David nods, "No."

Beat. David just stares at his son. Jeremy's eyes start to close.

Jeremy opens his eyes.

Beat. Jeremy's eyes start to shut.

Jeremy Dunne falls asleep. David Dunne stands in the darkness of his son's room.

Posters of comic book heroes don the walls around him.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Elijah's cheek rests against two pristine white pillows. He looks exhausted. His

eyes are fixed on some abstract point in the room. WE HEAR SOUNDS OF A HOSPITAL.

The torso of a PHYSICIAN can be seen on the other side of the bed. We hear him

speak but never see his face.

Beat.

Elijah just keeps staring.

Beat. Elijah's head nods the slightest bit up and down.

The PHYSICIAN'S WORDS FADE AWAY as Elijah continues to gaze at an abstract point

in the room.

INT. PHYSICAL THERAPY CENTER - LATE MORNING

WE EMERGE FROM DARKNESS TO FIND OURSELVES IN THE PHYSICAL THERAPY CENTER.

A CO-WORKER finds Megan working with an elderly gentleman who's laboring on a

stationary bike.

The co-worker takes Megan's position by the elderly man.

Megan crosses the physical therapy center. A man in a wheel chair waits by her

office. She walks up to him with a smile.

Elijah's leg is immobilized by a metal brace and held straight. Under his shirt

we see the wrappings around his ribs. His left pinky is in a splint. He smiles

and nods, "yes" to Megan.

INT. STADIUM LOCKER ROOM - LATE MORNING

David Dunne stands in security uniform by a set of double doors that leads into

the players locker room.

Three walls of the locker room are lined with shiny lockers. One side of the room

has benches and massage tables. The far end of the room has work out equipment.

About twenty players and trainers are scattered throughout the spacious room lost

in their own pre-game rituals.

David watches as a massive muscular player takes a seat on the massage table and

removes his dress shirt. His body is covered in old bruises. He lays down,

wincing a bit from the pain. A trainer begins to massage him.

David just stares at the battered athlete. His gaze moves across the room. Beat.

David stares at something in the crowded room then he starts towards it.

He moves through the room of players and trainers. He moves to the one area of

the large room not occupied by anyone.

David comes to a step at the foot of an Olympic bench press. Racks and racks of

free weights sit behind the press.

David looks down at the thick silver bar. Three large black plates are on either

side. Six in all.

David looks back and glances at the double doors where he should be standing.

Beat. He looks to the twenty or so players and trainers in the room. Some of the

players have headphones on. Some are staring into space. A couple are on cell

phones...

No one notices David Dunne as he reaches for a forty-five pound black plate off

the weight rack.

The huge disc slides onto the bar with almost NO SOUND...

A matching forty-five pound disc goes on the other side...

And then David adds another. He matches it on the other side...

THE BENCH CREAKS just the slightest bit as David takes a seat.

No one notices the security guard lay back on the bench.

David's hands take hold of the shiny bar.

He closes his eyes...

David's arms become tense. He pushes against the weight. It doesn't move.

His face turns deep red. He opens his eyes and stares at the bar as he keeps

training. His face and arms are shaking... He keeps staring... focusing.

And then, without any fanfare, the bar lifts off the arm rest.

The weight hovers over David. He lowers it to his chest for a second time. His

arms aren't shaking anymore. He pushes the weights back up.

He carefully brings the bar back to the arm rest. It touches down with the

smallest of CLINKS.

David's fingers uncurl from the bar.

David lets out two slow soft breaths as he counts the thick black discs.

Beat. David sits up in a daze.

He finds the entire room of athletes and trainers staring at him. Some of the

players have stood up. Everyone stares as David Dunne with the same quiet

disbelief in their eyes.

INT. PHYSICAL THERAPY CENTER - AFTERNOON

Megan and Elijah are in the far corner of the room. They're separated from the

other clients. Megan is seated on an exercise machine. Elijah is in his wheel

chair facing her.

Megan is taken off guard by the question. She stares at Elijah. Beat.

Elijah smiles warmly. Megan smiles softly back.

Elijah smiles even bigger.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat. Megan's eyes become utterly still.

INT. STADIUM - AFTERNOON

Eleven football players in white and green battle eleven football players in blue

and gray on the field. A sold out stadium watches the event.

David stands at the lip of a tunnel that opens out onto the upper section of the

second level. Waves of people move from their seats through the tunnel to the

bathrooms and concession stands and back again.

David stares to the side away from the movement, his shoulder leaned up against

the wall. He looks over at the constant movement of spectators through the

tunnel.

Beat. His shoulder leaves the wall. He STEPS OUT into the stream of people.

Shoulders and arms bump into him and brush by him as they move.

David's eyes are looking down - his expression still - like he's listening.

He continues into the dead center of the tunnel. He's in the heaviest part of the

movement now. Fans continue to brush against him as they pass.

And then it happens... A stocky woman bumps into him.

FLASH CUT: AN IMAGE OF THE STOCKY WOMAN IN A BATHROBE STANDING IN A KITCHEN.

SHE'S HOLDING THE SHOULDER OF A FIVE YEAR OLD BOY STANDING NEXT TO HER. HE'S

CRYING UNCONTROLLABLY.

THEY BOTH ARE LOOKING DOWN AT THE KITCHEN TABLE WHERE THREE THINGS ARE LAID

OUT... A BELT, A HANGER, AND AN EXTENSION CORD.

SLAM CUT BACK TO PRESENT:

We're back with David in the crowd. He turns and watches the stocky woman walk

down the tunnel. She's holding the wrist of her five year old son. She yanks it

quickly and violently to keep the boy close at her side. She and the boy dissolve

into the crowd.

INT. PHYSICAL THERAPY CENTER - AFTERNOON

Elijah and Megan sit very still.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat. Megan becomes utterly still.

INT. STADIUM - AFTERNOON

David lets the waves of people move by him in the tunnel.

A MAN WITH GRAY EYES and wearing a dark blue sweat shirt carries a cardboard tray

of nachos and drinks. He brushes David's arm as he passes.

FLASH CUT: THE IMAGE OF THE GREY EYED MAN WEARING A BLOOD SPLATTERED T-SHIRT IN

A MEN'S BATHROOM. HE'S VIOLENTLY KICKING ANOTHER MAN CURLED UP ON THE FLOOR OF A

TOILET STALL.

HE STOPS KICKING. HE GLARES DOWN WITH POWERFUL GRAY EYES.

SLAM CUT BACK TO PRESENT:

The gray eyes man in the blue sweat shirt pauses with nachos in hand at the top

of the stairs to locate his seats. Beat.

David walks the five feet between them and taps him on the shoulder. People

continue to stream by as the man turns to face David. The man's GRAY EYES go from

David's face to the security emblem on his shirt. The man's face becomes still.

David stares hard at the man in front of him.

The gray eyed man stands eerily still with his nachos and drinks. The two men

just stare at each other, evaluating the situation. People move in both

directions around them, unaware.

The gray eyes man holds his tray of food to the side and raises his arms slowly.

David steps forward and reaches into his pockets. Beat. David pulls his hands out

from the pockets. They're empty.

The gray eyes man brings his arms down. Beat.

The walkie on David's hip COMES TO LIFE. David reaches down and pulls it off his

belt without removing his eyes from the man in front of him. David brings the

walkie to his mouth.

David's face changes.

David lowers the walkie from his face. The gray eyed man has a slight smile on.

Beat.

The gray eyed man takes a bite of a nacho as he stares at David.

The gray eyed man in the blue sweat shirt turns and starts down the stairs to his

seat. He raises his fist in the air as someone scores a touchdown on the field.

INT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL NURSE'S RECEPTION AREA - AFTERNOON

Jeremy is seated in a chair with abrasions and cuts on his face. He sits next to

a smaller boy with a thermometer in his mouth.

They're both looking at the glass window of the nurse's private office. There are

tow people inside talking. David and A WHITE HAIRED NURSE.

The THERMOMETER BOY pulls the thermometer out of his mouth.

Jeremy nods "Yes."

Jeremy turns to the thermometer boy.

INT. NURSE'S OFFICE - AFTERNOON

David feels uncomfortable as the nurse just stares at him. Beat. David rises from

his seat.

The white haired nurse nods, "no."

David nods.

David stares at the white haired nurse.

David nods, "no."

David stares at the woman. He doesn't recognize her.

David nods, "no" slowly.

The nurse shakes her head.

Beat.

David seems lost in his thoughts. He looks up at the nurse.

EXT. BUS STOP - AFTERNOON

David and Jeremy are seated on a bench at a Septa bus stop. No one else is

waiting with them.

Jeremy talks without making eye contact with his dad.

Beat. Jeremy's VOICE STARTS TO TREMBLE SOFTLY.

Jeremy finally looks up. Tears in his eyes.

David moves closer to Jeremy on the bench.

Jeremy just stares at his father. Beat.

INT. KITCHEN - EVENING

David stares at his bowl of pasta. He sits alone in the kitchen. Beat.

He gets up, slides the pasta in the trash and moves to the sink.

David is rinsing out the bowl when Megan walks in. David turns off the water.

Beat.

David looks at Megan. They stand silently in an awkward pause. Beat.

Beat. David smiles.

Megan smiles softly back. Beat.

Megan sees David's shocked expression.

Megan suddenly realizes David is looking over her shoulder.

Megan turns around. She SCREAMS.

Jeremy is standing in the doorway to the kitchen. He's crying hard. In his

outstretched hands is the HAND GUN FROM DAVID'S CLOSET. It's pointed directly at

David.

Jeremy nods, "Yes." Crying harder now.

David shoots a tense glance at Megan.

David starts moving a little to his right. Jeremy follows him with the barrel of

the handgun. David stops moving.

Jeremy stops moving.

Jeremy's small face tenses. Confusion mixes with the desperation on his face.

Beat. Jeremy looks up, tears streaming down his cheeks.

Jeremy starts pressing the trigger. The hammer clicks back.

Jeremy freezes. David flashes a desperate glance at Megan then back to Jeremy.

Beat.

Jeremy's hands are trembling. He starts to close his eyes as he raises the gun

level with David's chest.

Jeremy's eyes open.

Jeremy puts the gun down on the floor in front of him and stands up.

Megan leans against the refrigerator and slides down to a sitting position on the

tiled floor.

David walks over and picks up the gun. He unloads the bullets in his hand. David

bends down very slowly and takes a seat on the kitchen floor.

Jeremy is the last to sit down. He takes a seat in the doorway of the kitchen.

Beat. He wipes his eyes with the back of his hand. Beat.

The Dunne family sits in silence on the floor of their kitchen.

EXT. LIMITED EDITION - AFTERNOON

People move up and down the streets outside the storefronts. David is one of

them. He waits to cross the street. He sees movement inside the Limited Edition

window.

INT. LIMITED EDITION - AFTERNOON

Elijah opens the door. It takes him a bit, because of the wheelchair.

David stares at Elijah's damaged condition. Beat.

Elijah wheels over to one of the framed sketches on the wall. It's a charcoal

drawing of a muscular figure shielding himself from a blow about to be delivered.

A huge ominous shadow is covering him, as if something unspeakable and evil is

just out of frame.

David steps in close and studies the drawing.

Elijah points up to the drawing's face.

David looks right at the intense eyes of the drawing.

Elijah turns to David.

David becomes still as his words register.

David looks unsteady all of the sudden.

Elijah points to the room full of pictures.

Elijah looks at David with deep admiration. His voice cracked a little at the end

of his words. Beat.

David doesn't take his hands out of his pockets.

Beat.

Beat. Elijah seems shaken for the first time. David stares at him coldly.

David turns and starts for the entrance. The BELL OF THE DOOR CLANGS as David

Dunne leaves the store.

EXT. STREET - AFTERNOON

David exits the Limited Edition and moves down the street lost in this thoughts.

He bumps a man in a jacket and tie walking in the opposite direction.

FLASH CUT: THE SAME MAN STANDS IN A BAGGY SWEATER. AGAINST A PARKED CAR HE'S

HOLDING SOMETHING SHINY AND METALLIC IN HIS HANDS. HE INSERTS IT IN THE HALF INCH

GAP BETWEEN THE GLASS OF THE DRIVER'S WINDOW AND THE DOOR. THE DOOR UNLOCKS.

THE MAN LOOKS AROUND QUIETLY BEFORE ENTERING THE CAR.

SLAM CUT BACK TO THE PRESENT:

David looks over his shoulder at the conservative looking man in a shirt and tie

walking down the street.

David Dunne is shaken. He turns and keeps walking.

INT. JEREMY'S ROOM - NIGHT

A superhero action figure and a plastic villain do battle on Jeremy's desk.

David sits dressed up in a white shirt and dress pants. He holds the villain.

Jeremy holds the superhero.

Megan enters the room in a beautiful brown dress.

David nods, "yes." Megan studies his tense expression.

David looks from the action figures, to his son's face to the face of his wife.

They both have the same quiet anxious expression. Beat.

Megan smiles.

Jeremy giggles.

INT. DOWNTOWN COMIC BOOK STORE - NIGHT

An overweight man in sweats and a ponytail counts the cash in the register. We

are in a low-end comic book store. The walls are lined with shelves of comic

books. The more expensive issues are kept in a glass case.

THE PONYTAIL MAN looks at his watch and then to far back of the store where one

head is visible behind a low rack.

The top of the man's head doesn't move. Beat.

No response. Ponytail man closes his register and walks towards the back.

As he gets closer to the customer, he realizes that the man is in a wheelchair.

The Ponytail man walks ups to Elijah.

Elijah doesn't react. He sits in his chair in a quiet daze. Ponytail man leans

over.

Ponytail man makes fake sign language gestures in front of Elijah's face.

Beat. The Ponytail man shakes his head moves behind Elijah. He starts wheeling

him towards the front of the store. They move down a narrow aisle of comics.

Elijah suddenly grabs the left wheel and turns the chair. His immobilized left

leg hits a rack of comic books. A handful of comics tumbles to the ground.

The ponytail man straightens the wheelchair and starts down the aisle again.

After a couple of feet, Elijah jerks and grabs the other wheel sending the

wheelchair ramming violently into the opposite wall. Comics are knocked free and

fall onto the wheel chair and the nearby ground.

Beat. The Ponytail man takes Elijah's silence as a, "Yes." He straightens the

chair.

They move down the aisle. All is quiet... and then Elijah jerks the wheelchair to

the left again. His metal brace and the wheelchair crash into two racks. Elijah

gets covered in comics.

The Ponytail man moves to the front counter.

Elijah sits in a trance - slightly hunched over. His eyes stare at a comic book

in his lap. His expression changes for the first time.

The Ponytail man finishes dialing. He looks over to Elijah as he waits for a

voice on the other end. Elijah raises a single comic book in his hand.

INT. RESTAURANT BAR - NIGHT

LATE EVENING. A trendy restaurant. Not enough light to read the menus.

David and Megan are on stools at one end of the bat. They sip their drinks as

they appear in deep thought.

Megan leans slightly closer.

Beat. David brings his stool closer.

David's grin slowly fades.

Megan moves her stool closer. They're only a foot or so apart.

Beat. David sips his drink slowly.

Beat. David glances at Megan. She waits for his answer.

Beat. Megan takes her glass up to her lips. Doesn't take a sip. Brings it back

down.

Beat.

Megan's face tenses. She's on the verge of getting upset.

Beat. David doesn't answer.

Megan's eyes glaze with water. Beat.

David takes a sip with a trembling hand. David's eyes look up and make eye

contact with Megan's. He stares at her for the longest time.

Husband and wife sit close together in the corner of the bar on their second

date.

INT. FRONT DOOR - NIGHT

Megan stands next to David as he pulls out his wallet. The babysitter with the

black dyed hair and Buddy Holly glasses stands ready to leave in the doorway.

Megan tries to hide her smile.

The smile instantly fades.

The babysitter fixes her Buddy Holly glasses as she looks at the two suddenly

quiet faces.

David hands her the money. She opens the door. It's started to rain.

The babysitter covers her head with her jacket and runs down the walkway. David

closes the door. Beat.

Megan takes off her coat as she moves to the guest bedroom. She disappears

inside. The door closely behind her.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Only the COUNTER LIGHT is on in the kitchen. David stands by the phone.

ELIJAH'S VOICE IS HEARD ON THE ANSWERING MACHINE.

THE SOUND OF ELIJAH HANGING UP IS HEARD. THE ANSWERING MACHINE BEEPS AS IT TURNS

OFF.

David hits a button on the answering machine. It makes a WHIRRING SOUND before

ANNOUNCING.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

The master bedroom is very narrow. A bathtub and toilet are at one end. Two

identical sinks sit opposite each other.

David sits on the edge of the tub. His shirt is unbuttoned. He sits in a daze

staring at the tiled floor.

His eyes slowly move to a small white and red box laying on its side under one of

the sinks.

David rises and picks it up.

It's a BOX OF BAND AIDS. David looks up to Megan's sink. Perfume and lotions sit

on its edge.

David opens her mirrored cabinet. He starts to put the band aid box back, he

hesitates.

His eyes begin to roam the cabinet shelves. They stop on certain items... A

CONTAINER OF TYLENOL... A LOTION FOR DRY SKIN... A BOTTLE OF ALLERGY DROPS...

COUGH SYRUP...  A TUBE OF MUSCLE PAIN OINTMENT...

David just stands quietly for a beat before turning and looking across to his own

identical mirrored medicine cabinet.

There are three things on the shelf... DISPOSABLE RAZORS. SHAVING CREAM. AND

COLOGNE.

David's mouth opens just a little bit as he stares.

INT. FRONT HALL - NIGHT

ALL THE LIGHTS ARE OUT.

David moves through the darkness down the stares in jeans and a sweatshirt.

He moves to the coat closet. Pulls out the dark green rain poncho. The word

"security" is almost faded away.

He opens and closes the front door with virtually NO SOUND.

EXT. THIRTIETH STREET STATION - NIGHT

Rain falls like gunfire from the sky.

David's car pulls into the massive rain station parking lot.

David steps out and pulls the hood of the poncho over his head.

EXT. METAL STAIRS - NIGHT

A steel fence leads to a set of stairs that travel down to the dozens of

interconnected tracks below. David walks down about forty feet. A fenced gate

with a lock stops his progress.

David looks through the fence down to the tracks. Just to the side is a

construction site. Cranes and lifts and various equipment stand idle in the area

next to the section of train wreckage that has been brought to the station

grounds for dismantling and salvaging. The bent shapes of the train pieces can

only be glimpsed in outlines as they sit in the darkness, hundreds of feet away

from the immaculately lit train station.

Beat. A HUGE METALLIC CRACK ECHOES THROUGH THE TRAIN YARD as David kicks open the

fence door that holds him back from going down.

EXT. TRAIN WRECKAGE - NIGHT

Frightening twisted pieces of metal glisten in the rain. David walks along the

body of the caved-in passenger car.

The passenger car is split in two. Just before the tear, along the window line,

the windows have been crushed in. A huge hole has been ripped below the windows

exposing the ravaged interior.

David stands before this heavily damaged area of the car. He just stares at the

wreckage. Water falls off the rim of his hood in front of his face.

His eyes drift over the ominous pieces of deformed metal. He takes a couple slow

breaths as THE SOUNDS OF HARSH RAIN FADE AWAY TO SILENCE.

FLASHBACK: EXT. STREET - NIGHT

SILENCE. BLACK. OUR VISION CLEARS TO REVEAL the glazed icy top of a street.

THE SOUND OF DISTANT FIRE COMES INTO THE SILENCE.

A TWENTY YEAR OLD DAVID DUNNE rises to his feet from the ground where he was

laying amongst the fragmented pieces of windshield. He looks down at himself. His

football jacket is torn. So are his jeans... He's trembling slightly, but not

bleeding.

HE LOOKS UP TOWARDS THE NOISES.

About thirty feet away is a Honda, upside down, wrapped around a telephone pole.

It's front is on fire.

Through one of the crushed door windows, WE SEE A WOMAN'S HAND.

Young David heads toward his car. He slips a couple of times on the slick iced

surface of the road.

He kneels down next to the inverted car. He looks in the crushed window frame.

THE FACE OF A TWENTY YEAR OLD MEGAN IS UPSIDE DOWN. She is unconscious.

She doesn't answer. Her body is twitching as it sits pinned behind the wheel.

David pulls at the handle of the mangled door. It's wedged tight. It won't move.

The heat from the fire is tremendous.

David's powerful arms keep pulling with all their strength.

WE HEAR THE CREAK OF METAL... THE DOOR BENDS UNNATURALLY AND THEN PRACTICALLY

RIPS OPEN.

David leans into the car and unbuckles Megan. He works her out underneath the

steering column. He slides out. Her leg is bleeding.

David picks her up and carries her to the grass next to the road. He lays her

down gently.

He just stares at her. She doesn't respond.

A LIGHT WASHES OVER THEM. David turns to see a truck approaching up the road.

David waves frantically. The truck slows.

David turns back to Megan. Her eyes are open.

Tears fall from David's face as he moves the hair out of her eyes. She looks at

David.

Beat.

The driver of the truck slips and slides his way over to David.

Beat. David looks at Megan who lays shivering in the grass. He looks back at the

driver.

The driver nods.

The driver moves back to his truck.

David takes Megan's hand in his and waits in the grass by the sight of their car

on fire.

PRESENT: EXT. TRAIN WRECKAGE - NIGHT

David stands utterly still in the graveyard of train 177.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

The wheels of Elijah's wheelchair move down the hall as he follows the SOUND OF

THE PHONE RINGING.

He follows THE SOUND to a PHONE RINGING in the storage room of the store. There

are shelves and shelves of comic books. Thousands of them filed away in neat

piles.

Elijah picks up the phone a little out of breath.

Beat.

Nothing is said on the other line for a couple of beats. WE HEAR THE ECHOED DIN

OF A LARGE ROOM FILLED WITH PEOPLE AND MOVEMENT IN THE BACKGROUND.

Elijah closes his eyes. His face fills with strength.

INT. THIRTIETH STREET STATION PHILADELPHIA - NIGHT

The interior of the station is a mystical sight. One huge cavernous room, a

football field in size, lined on both sides with giant pillars that rise into a

misty hand painted ceiling.

David stands in a quiet corner and watches the faces of passengers arriving and

departing late night trains. Even at the late hour, there is heavy traffic

throughout the station.

David stares out at the midnight travelers. Beat. He starts towards them.

He passed the towering black statue standing at the far end of the station. It

watches over the whole building. It's in the form of an angel lifting a soldier

to heaven.

David moves through the first group of people - a crisscross of arriving

passengers from tracks one and two. They brush by him and lightly bump him as

they move.

FLASH CUT: WE ARE NO LONGER IN THE TRAIN STATION. A BLOND WOMAN IN HER TWENTIES

STANDS AT A COUNTER IN A CROWDED STORE.

SHE SLIDES THE SILVER BRACELET AND EARRINGS SHE WAS LOOKING AT OFF THE GLASS

COUNTER AND INTO HER PURSE. NO ONE SEES.

SLAM CUT BACK TO PRESENT:

David turns and glances at the blonde woman as she walks away from him towards

the exit of the train station. He doesn't stop moving.

David heads towards the densest part of the floor. The area near the information

board. Sleepy friends and tired family members stand and wait. A steady

spider-like web of movement flows as six  tracks let out on either side.

David moves to the center. His rain poncho almost touches the marble floor. Lines

of passengers emerging from trains below the main level move steadily on either

side of him.

David looks down and gently turns the palms of his hands out as they at his side.

His finger tops graze the jackets and clothes of the passengers walking by.

Dozens and dozens of people pass. Nothing happens. Then a man in a crumpled shirt

and slicked back hair brushes by...

FLASH CUT: THE SLICKED BLACKED HAIRED MAN LEANS OUT THE WINDOW OF A TRUCK. HE'S

HOLDING A BOTTLE OF BEER.

THE SLICKED HAIR MAN THROWS THE BOTTLE WITH FORCE AS HE PASSES A CLACK FAMILY

WALKING ON THE SIDEWALK. THE BOTTLE SHATTERS AS IT HITS A WOMAN IN THE GROUP.

SLAM CUT BACK TO PRESENT:

David's eyes dart up as the slicked haired man turns the corner at the

information booth. He watches him for a beat.

FLASH CUT: WE ARE IN A BEDROOM. A YOUNG MAN IN HIS LATE TEENS LOOKS DOWN AT A

GIRL LAYING IN A PILE OF OVERCOATS ON A BED. THERE IS LOUD MUSIC AND LAUGHTER

COMING FROM SOMEWHERE DOWNSTAIRS.

THE GIRL MOANS SOMETHING INAUDIBLE AS SHE ROLLS ON HER SIDE. HER SKIRT RIDES UP

HER THIGH.

THE YOUNG MAN STARES AT HER AND THEN GETS UP. HE MAKES SURE NO ONE IS LOOKING

BEFORE CLOSING THE DOOR. HE LOCKS IT FROM THE INSIDE.

SLAM CUT BACK TO PRESENT:

David watches the teenager with baggy jeans hanging off his hip. He walks and

greets a group of identically dressed friends.

Beat. David turns his hands back in. He seems shaken. He takes a couple of deep

breaths as he gathers himself.

Then David steps back to look around. HE BUMPS the shoulder of a man standing

behind him.

David takes a sudden breath like someone punched him in the solar plexus.

FLASH CUT: AN ENORMOUS MAN WITH GLASSY EYES STANDS BEFORE A SCREEN SIDE DOOR.

HE'S BALDING. THE HAIR HE DOES HAVE IS SHOULDER LENGTH. HIS ECLIPSING SHADOW

FALLS ON THE CONSERVATIVE LOOKING MAN WHO STANDS ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE SCREEN

DOOR INSIDE THE HOUSE.

Beat.

The enormous glassy eyed man takes hold of the screen door handle. He turns it.

The man inside the house grabs the door handle on the inside to stop him.

The man inside the house uses all his strength to keep the door from opening...

It opens slowly anyway.

SLAM CUT BACK TO PRESENT:

David stands frozen in the train station. His face is almost unreadable.

David is standing less than a foot away from the man he bumped. They're standing

shoulder to shoulder. David's eyes slowly move from the ground over his right and

then finally onto the man.

He's huge. At least three inches taller than David. His shoulders are massive.

He's wearing a one piece ORANGE UNIFORM.

The man in the orange uniform leans over a trashcan next to him and removes the

full trash bag within it. He replaces it with a fresh one. He throws the full

trash bag into a gray plastic bin with wheels and starts pushing it.

David watches the man head across the floor towards a double door marked "Station

Maintenance Staff Only".

Four identical gray bins sit outside the door. The huge man disappears with his

bin inside.

David waits. He just stares hard at the double doors. Nothing happens for the

longest time... No one comes out. David makes a decision. He starts towards the

doors.

And then they open.

The huge glassy eyed man in orange emerges carrying a bag over his shoulder. He's

wearing a baseball hat with his uniform now. He heads toward a back exit.

David lets him get about twenty feet away before deciding to follow him.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - NIGHT

The man in the orange uniform walks in the driving rain down a residential city

block. Almost all the lights in the middle class homes he's passing are off at

this late hour. No one is out walking except him and David Dunne fifty feet

behind.

The orange figure turns the corner onto a block of modest stand alone homes. The

uniformed man walks slower in this block. He looks around carefully as he moves.

He turns into a driveway of one of the homes. He stops and pulls a wad of mail

out of the mailbox.

David stands with the hood of his security coat covering his head and face. He

stands in the shadows and watches silently as the man in the orange uniform looks

over his massive shoulder before turning a knob and entering the white paneled

house through a familiar side door with a screen on it.

INT. LAUNDRY ROOM - NIGHT

The side door opens with almost no sound. The hooded figure of David Dunne steps

into a narrow laundry room. THE SOUND OF A TELEVISION IS HEARD FROM ANOTHER ROOM.

A very large pile of unopened mail sits in a mound on the clothes dryer. Two or

three days worth.

David shuts the door very slowly.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

THE SOUNDS OF CHEERING FROM THE TELEVISION IN THE NEXT ROOM SPILL INTO THE

KITCHEN.

David stares out from under his hood at the mess.

Cabinets are left open. Empty cans of food sit on the counter with a handful of

unwashed dishes. The breakfast table is the eeriest thing in the room. It sits

frozen with a plate of half-eaten, now moldy eggs at one setting and two bowls of

colorful cereal in another. The cereal has dissolved in the old milk. Two

cockroaches are crawling in the bowl.

David moves slowly to a door in the kitchen. It's slightly open. As David gets

closer, he shields his face from the strong smell. He pulls the door open

quietly.

A SHAFT OF KITCHEN LIGHTS FALLS DOWN THE STAIRS INTO THE BASEMENT. At the bottom

of the stairs is a MAN'S BODY. The same man who answered the door in the

flashback lays partly in the shadow, partly in the light. His crumpled tie lies

folded over itself on his still chest.

INT. FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT

A BOXING MATCH BLARES ON THE TELEVISION. Empty beer bottles and coke cans sit in

a pyramid on the coffee table.

David steps into the unoccupied room. His movements are slow and tense.

THUDS OF HEAVY FOOTSTEPS COME FROM THE CEILING OF THE ROOM. David looks up and

follows the SOUND AS IT MOVES AROUND ABOVE HIM.

David moves to the stairs as SOMEONE GETS KNOCKED OUT ON THE TELEVISION.

INT. GIRL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Three closed doors converge on a landing. David opens the closest one.

It's a young girl's room. Posters of boy bands are on her wall. Clothes are

everywhere. The room is empty.

A NOISE COMES FROM THE HALF OPEN BATHROOM DOOR ATTACHED TO THE BEDROOM.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

A slightly overweight girl, probably fourteen years old is tied by her wrists

with a phone cord to the metal towel rack in her bathroom. She sits with her arms

pointed upward over her head. He knees tucked up to her chest.

Next to her is her younger brother. A skinny boy, maybe twelve. He's tied and

seated in the same way.

Their heads are leaned back against their arms. They're completely listless. Eyes

half mast. They watch as the door to the bathroom opens and the dark hooded

figure of David Dunne steps in. His long dark slowing rain poncho still dripping

water. He stands in the doorway for a moment before moving towards them.

They don't react in anyway as David reaches for the phone cord and unties them.

They're arms flop to their laps as they gaze up at the figure leaning over them.

They boy blinks once slowly.

David takes a step back and stares at them from under his hood.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

An exercise bike in the corner of the bedroom has been turned into a clothes

hanger long ago. The t.v. across the bed has framed family photos displayed on

top of it.

David's shadow passes over them as he moves towards the open bathroom on the

other side of the bedroom.

A woman is tied to the bathroom door handle. She sits on the tiled floor slumped

against the door. Her eyes stare blankly at the ground. She has considerable

bruises on her face and arms.

David stands before her.

The woman doesn't answer, but a SOUND COMES FROM THE SCREEN DOOR nearby. The

curtains draping the screen door move with the wind from outside.

David crosses the room and pushes aside the curtain. It leads to a small balcony.

An empty lawn chair is the only thing on it.

David steps onto the balcony and looks down.

The rain still pours down unmercifully. It comes down on a black tarp that covers

a pool in the backyard.

David turns to go back inside.

A BLURR OF ORANGE ATTACKS HIM.

The collision is sudden and explosive. The huge man drives his shoulder into

David's chest and takes him off his feet. David's body flips over the railing.

The dark green rain poncho flaps in the wind as he falls two stories directly

towards the black tarp.

EXT. POOL - NIGHT

David lands on his stomach with a TREMENDOUS SLAP onto the nylon black tarp.

There's a thin layer of rain water on the tarp's surface. David is laying on his

cheek. Half his face is covered in water.

Beat. David's exposed eye looks around in a daze. The surface of  the tarp gets

pounded by the rain.

David uses his hands to push his body off the tarp. His hands sink into the water

as his pressure pushes the tarp down.

THE FIRST SOUNDS OF NYLON SLIDING AGAINST CONCRETE START.

David stops pushing. His vision catches the corner of the swimming pool as the

tarp slides out from under the sand bags that hold it in place.

The tarp sags. David becomes utterly still. THE SOUND CONTINUES ANYWAY.

One by one the tarp starts sliding out from under the sand bags all around the

edge of the pool.

And then without warning, the tarp caves in. It folds around David as he and the

tarp get pulled UNDER THE COLD DARK WATER.

EXT.  UNDER WATER - NIGHT

David's body is tangled in the pool cover. His legs and arms thrash against the

constricting black tarp. He's drowning.

GLIMPSES OF LIGHT FROM THE HOUSE PIERCE THE DARKNESS UNDER WATER. THE BLURRED

IMAGE OF A DISTANT FIGURE HIGH ABOVE ON A BALCONY FLICKERS AND DISAPPEARS.

The last of the tarp slides out from under the sandbags that old it in place

around the edge of the pool.

The rain keeps falling.

The tarp moves like it's alive underwater. It shifts and wraps David tighter with

every movement.

GLIMPSES OF LIGHT AGAIN. TWO SMALL FIGURES NOW STAND IN A BLURRED SILHOUETTE NEAR

THE EDGE OF THE POOL. FLASHES OF SOMETHING SHINY THEY'RE HOLDING... A ROD OR

POLE... IT'S SHAKY NEBULOUS IMAGE WAIVERS IN THE AIR ABOVE THE SURFACE.

David's only free hand reaches for the light. It catches the silver pole.

The tangled mass of David and the tarp are pulled slowly towards the edge of the

pool. David's head and shoulders emerge from the darkness. He takes hold of the

pool's edge.

Huge desperate breaths as he pulls his body out from the water and the grasp of

the tarp. He hauls himself onto the ground.

He sits hunched over in a dark mass, his head down under his hood. The rain

poncho covering him like a blanket. Beat.

He rises to his feet. The water rushes off of him. His breathing is slowing,

calming.

He stands in a silhouette from the light of the house. He turns and looks to the

two small figures standing near the edge of the pool.

The children from the bathroom stand still in the rain. They're holding an

aluminum pole with a brush head for cleaning the pool. They stare up at the

hooded figure.

No one says anything.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

The man in the orange one-piece uniform stands over the woman tied to the door

handle of the bathroom. His back is to us. He's drinking from a beer bottle as he

looks down at her.

He doesn't notice the third presence come into the room. He doesn't hear him move

closer. Right behind him.

The man in orange takes another sip of his beer, not realizing an arm is reaching

over him... He doesn't get to swallow the sip in his mouth.

David Dunne's powerful arm wraps around the man's thick neck. David's hands clamp

together like and iron vise. He squeezes.

The man's beer bottle crashes to the ground as his neck begins to get crushed.

David yanks back hard, pulls the man off balance. The man's legs push back

violently, sending both of them backwards across the room. They come to a hard

stop as David's back gets RAMMED INTO THE BEDROOM WALL.

The huge man in orange pulls away and then SLAMS DAVID harder against the wall.

David's arm remains locked around his throat.

The man becomes frantic. His face turning dark red. He clutches at David's arm.

He spins, taking David with him into another wall. The IMPACT IS TREMENDOUS. The

room shakes. David holds on. His face bent low and hidden under his hood.

And then the man in orange throws a powerful elbow back. It lands hard right in

David's side. David groans. The huge man delivers another one. Savage, desperate

blows. WE HEAR THE IMPACT OF EACH ONE WITH DAVID'S BODY. And David never lets go.

The elbows slow and then stop. The legs of the man in orange start to buckle.

David pulls him back onto his heels. He turns him in a half circle. All of his

tremendous weight is hanging from David's arm now. David LETS OUT A YELL AS HE

APPLIES ALL HIS STRENGTH. The man's legs stop kicking.

David keeps turning him. The man's body goes completely limp. David's just

dragging two hundred and seventy-five pounds of weight in a circle over the

carpet now.

David slowly comes to a stop. He stands there with his arm wrapped around the

man's neck....The man's limbs dangle down to the ground. Beat.

David's hands let go of each other. His arm slips out from under the man's jaw.

The man in orange crumples to the ground like a rag doll. The only SOUND IN THE

ROOM IS DAVID'S HEAVY BREATHING. Beat.

He moves to the woman slumped against the door. He starts to untie the phone

cords that bind her wrists to the handle. He whispers to her.

He unties her wrists. Her arms stay above her head where they were.

He stares at the woman whose eyes stare blankly at him. She sits unnaturally

still against the door with her arms above her head. The mascara that has run

down her face and dried, has tracks where countless tears have rolled down.

David moves his hand near her mouth and nose. He checks for the feeling of breath

against his hand. Beat.

He rises up. Removes his hood. David Dunne stands silently in the master bedroom

of someone's house and gazes at the dead woman frozen in a slumped position

against her bathroom door.

INT. FRONT HALL - NIGHT

The front door opens to SILENCE. The silhouetted figure of David steps into the

darkness of his home.

INT. CLOSET - NIGHT

The dark green faded security poncho gets hung back on its hook in the closet

next to the family winter coats.

INT. JEREMY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

David enters the quiet of Jeremy's room. Jeremy lays sound asleep. David stares

down at the shadowy figure of his son.

He pulls the blanket over the boy's small shoulder.

INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

David sits on the edge of the empty bed in the darkness of his room.

He doesn't makes a sound. He doesn't move an inch. He is so still, he seems to

disappear into the shadows of the room.

INT. GUEST BEDROOM - NIGHT

Megan stirs in her sleep. She shifts her head on the pillow.

Then her body RISES INTO THE AIR.

She starts to wake as she floats across the room. She opens her eyes and sees

David close by. He's carrying her in her arms. He moves up the stairs with her.

No words are spoken.

INT. THEIR BEDROOM - NIGHT

They enter their bedroom. David lays her down gently on her side of the bed.

She watches as he walks out of sight. He lays down right behind her.

He covers her with his arm... His hand is shaking. Beat. He speaks softly.

David tucks his head in close to hers and closes his eyes.

Megan lays stunned in her husband's arms. Beat.

She closes her eyes too as the tears start coming.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Downtown Philadelphia.

People move up and down the sidewalks in front of the storefronts. David Dunne is

among them.

He crosses the street in front of The Limited Edition. The front doors of the

store are open.

A banner over the door reads, "Annual Sale."

INT. LIMITED EDITION - DAY

The compact store is crowded with customers.

David spots Elijah with a group of people before a framed painting of a comic

hero.

David moves to a less crowded area of the store and waits. He turns and looks at

a framed sketch.

Beat. An older woman walks over from a near by picture and joins David.

David stares at the drawing.

David turns and looks at the striking and beautiful African American woman in her

sixties who stands next to him.

The woman turns and looks at David for the first time.

David looks across the store at Elijah talking with the customers.

They both watch Elijah from across the room.

David watches as Elijah's mother walks across the store and waits for Elijah to

finish talking.

David turns back to the framed sketch. He looks at it with his hands in his

pockets. Beat.

David's stare turns into a gaze. His gaze turns into stillness.

THE SKETCH is of a withered man with large tense eyes. He sits in the shadows.

He's seated in some type of machine. There are lots of buttons and levers on the

machine. The machine has wheels.

David turns from the sketch. He looks across the room to Elijah seated in his

wheelchair. Elijah's large eyes stay focused on the customer's as he finishes

negotiating.

David turns back to the sketch. He looks at it with growing confusion. The more

you look at drawing, the more the machine the man is seated in looks like a

wheelchair.

David looks back across the store. Elijah and his mother are talking. Elijah has

spotted David.

Beat. Elijah starts across the crowded store towards David. He wheels up to him.

Elijah has a newspaper on his lap. He holds it up.

There's a drawing on the front page. It's a hooded figure shielding two huddled

children behind him.

David stares quietly at the sketch of himself.

Elijah looks down at the newspaper.

David hesitates and then reaches forward.

He reaches past the paper... And TOUCHES ELIJAH'S ARM.

FLASHCUT: AN AIRPORT GATE. ELIJAH IS STANDING AT THE WINDOW LOOKING OUT ONTO THE

AIRFIELD. HE'S CRYING.

SIRENS START SOUNDING THROUGHOUT THE AIRPORT.

WAITING PASSENGERS START GETTING UP AND MOVING TO THE WINDOWS.

Elijah speaks to no one in particular as he stares out the window with tortured

eyes.

FLASH CUT: ELIJAH AND AN ELDERLY MAN IN A UNIFORM ARE SEATED IN A HOTEL BAR.

ELIJAH LOOKS UP FROM HIS DRINK.

FLASHCUT: ELIJAH LEAVES THE ENGINEERING ROOM OF AN AMTRAK TRAIN. HE PASSES THE

ENGINEER WHO HAS JUST ARRIVED WITH COFFEE.

Elijah doesn't answer and doesn't turn around as he exits train 177.

SLAM CUT BACK TO PRESENT:

David takes two unsteady steps back. Elijah has tears in his eyes as he gazes

down at the newspaper. He looks up to David.

David looks like he stopped breathing as he backs up in the store.

Customers step between him and Elijah. Elijah becomes obscured and then blocked

from view.

EXT. STREET - DAY

David emerges from the store slowly. He braces himself against a parked car and

then keeps on walking in a nightmarish daze.

WE PULL BACK as David Dunne blends in with dozens and dozens of ordinary people,

walking on an ordinary street, in an ordinary city.

