FADE IN:

In the darkness, we hear a voice, a woman's voice.  Her name

is Evey.

Her voice has a strength that is metered by a calmness, a

deep centered peace that we can feel.

In the darkness, we find a lantern.  Guy Fawkes, a dangerous

man who wears a goatee, is struggling with a wheelbarrow

stacked with barrels of gunpowder.

The wheelbarrow bumps over the heavy stone mortar of the

cellar floor.  From the dark depths, we hear the sound of

dogs.

Guy sees lanterns coming from both sides.  He tries to run as

the dogs reach him first.  He grabs for his sword as dozens

of pole axes pin him against the tunnel's stone wall.

In the dim pre-dawn light, Guy is led to the gallows.

The coarse noose of rope is snugged up to Guy's throat.  He

looks into the crowd until he finds a face, a woman's face,

staring up at him.

The lever is thrown and the woman looks down, a tear falling

down her face.

Guy's body hangs in silhouette, lifeless against a red

morning sun.

FADE IN:

INT.  SUBURBAN HOUSE

A young Evey sits on her father's lap, combing her Barbie's

hair.

Her father sits beside her mother on the living room couch,

watching the news.  From the look on their faces, the news is

bad.

The television flickers with images of heavily armed soldiers

fighting in a shelled city.

Little Evey sees her father staring at her mother.  They

take hold of each other's hand, clasping them tight.

EXT.  CITY STREET

It is a new day.  People are gathered along the street as if

they were waiting for a parade.

Evey holds her father's hand.  Unable to see what is coming,

she can hear it.

We hear them, hundreds of marching soldiers.

Little Evey hides in the forest of adults, clinging to her

father's leg, staring as row after row of boots march by with

military precision.

EXT.  CITY STREET

In the midst of a political rally for the emerging new party

calling itself Norsefire, we find little Evey now on her

father's shoulders.

Dascombe, a young man, paces the podium, inciting the crowd.

Adam Susan rises and the crowd cheers.  Evey's father looks

at her mother and again they clasp hands.

INT.  SUBURBAN HOUSE

Little Evey is asleep in her bedroom.

A loud crash of splintering wood wakes her up.

The sound of heavy boots swarms through the house.

Her bedroom door bursts open and a heavily armed soldier

scoops her up.

She is carried through the dark house which is filled with

soldiers.  On the floor of the living room, she sees her

parents being bound with plastic zip-ties.

A heavy black hood is pulled over each of her parent's heads

as Evey is carried out of the house.

INT.  BATHROOM

A nun with a switch in her crossed arms watches as Evey and

several other little girls scrub the floor of a dormitory

bathroom.

A tear rolls down Little Evey's cheek.

EXT.  HOUSE

A gay man is dragged violently from his Piccadilly home.

Outside, he sees his lover being forced to the cobblestones.

He reaches for him as the clubs rise and fall, vicious and

bloody.

In another neighborhood, we see the police arresting

Pakistanis.

In a different area, young black men are packed into a caged

van so tightly they are unable to move.

A young detective named Finch looks down as the van pulls

away.  When he looks up, another man in a military uniform

whose name is Almond is watching him.

Finch sticks his pipe in his mouth and turns away.

EXT.  STREET

Again, we see the marching boots.

We move through the columns of marching soldiers to a wall

where a poster has been plastered up.  The poster reads,

"Strength Through Purity, Purity Through Faith."

As the sound of the marching fades, a shadow falls over the

sign.

After a moment, we hear the hiss of spray paint.

The shadow sprays a "V" over the poster.

FADE IN:

Close on a loudspeaker.  There is one on every major street

corner.

Beneath the loudspeaker is a surveillance system labeled,

"For your protection."

Bubble eyed lenses iris at the end of stalks that move,

insect-like, racheting and clicking as they watch a little

girl pedal her bicycle.  The little girl glances nervously

over her shoulder up at the mechanical eyes watching her.

EXT.  EVEY'S APARTMENT

There is a radio on a small makeup table.

Evey is now a young woman.  She slips into a dress that is

little more than a nightgown.  She tries to adjust it,

pulling it down at the hem, pulling it up at the thin

shoulder straps, but it is like trying to hide behind a

lamppost.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

Another radio in a room that seems to be of another world.

A man enters the room as he once entered the world.  His body

is lean and strong and though we do not see his face, there

is a strength in his carriage, a power to his presence.

INT.  EVEY'S APARTMENT

She packs tissue paper into the toes of a pair of high heels

that are too big for her.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

We move over a dressing bureau, past a wig and over a pair of

black leather gloves, moving until we find the mask; it is

like something from the masquerade ball of another era.  It

has an exaggerated goatee, harlequin cheeks and a smile,

forever fixed, at once be-guiling and be-deviling.

INT.  EVEY'S APARTMENT

Evey coats her lips with a lascivious red.  She stares into

the mirror, her makeup like a mask over her own face.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

The man, now fully dressed in cloak, hat, and mask gazes into

the mirror.

This is V.

EXT.  CITY STREET

Close on Evey's high heels, stumbling and awkward as she

walks down a dark cobblestoned street.

EXT.  CITY STREET

Close on V's boots walking in the opposite direction so that

it seems they are walking towards each other.

EXT.  CITY STREET

Evey looks up and sees a man standing mostly in shadow.

The man turns around.  It is not V.

He smiles.

She presses her body to his, using her little girl eyes and

her woman's mouth.

He pulls out his wallet and shows her a badge.  The sight of

it knocks the breath out of her.

Evey turns and there are more Fingermen behind her.

The Fingermen laugh.

Fingerman 2 laughs hard as he drops his pants.

He shoves her face first against a brick wall, lifting her

dress to expose her bottom.

Suddenly, they are no longer alone.

In the clenched fist of black leather, we see a flash of

steel.

V attacks and at once we know this is no normal human being.

A single blow sends the largest of the Fingermen flying

backwards.

But more than his strength, it is his speed.

A gun is cocked but before the hammer falls, a knife is

buried in the Fingerman's chest and --

Before the body falls, the knife is gone.

It takes a handful of seconds and three bodies lay on the

ground.  V turns to the last Fingerman who is struggling to

pull his pants up.

V steps forward and he screams, bolting while holding his

pants up.

He throws wide his cloak and bows deeply to her.

They hear sirens rushing towards them.  In a blink, he scoops

her up and dashes into the shadows of a narrow alleyway.

EXT.  ROOFTOPS

Police cars and several ambulances swarm over the area with

the dead Fingermen.

V watches them from above.

He takes out an old antique pocket watch.  It is almost

midnight.

He looks out where, rising above the rooftops, he can see Big

Ben.

The second hand sweeps into the final minute.

From his sleeve, he pulls a conductor's wand.

He begins to lightly tap the wand in the air and, very

faintly, we hear it.

He continues to conduct and we begin to hear the music,

violins and horns that seem almost like a whisper or a wind

that steadily swells.

He turns to the parapet, his gestures growing grander as the

music rises and we recognize Tchaikovsky's 1812 overture.

The music mounts a climax and V points the wand at Big Ben as

cymbals crash --

Big Ben explodes with such force the world seems to shake,

while --

V, smiling, always smiling, points again with another

crescendo and --

The statue of justice is blown to smithereens.

V nods in appreciation while mustering the music towards it's

finale as fireworks begin lighting up the sky.

Everywhere across the city, people stand transfixed by the

dazzling shimmer of the fireworks until --

A strobing final blitz leaves a single, starry image floating

in the smoke filled sky.

It is the letter V.

From every direction, the city screams with the panicked

sound of sirens.

EXT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING

A massive modern building that is the seat of the new

government.

A long, black car pulls up to the entrance.  Adam Susan gets

out, wearing a long black trenchcoat over his pajamas.  He is

the Leader and he looks older, heavier, and meaner.

He hurries past the heavily armed guards, barely

acknowledging the snap and cock of their Nazi-like salute.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

The Leader enters his main chambers and we see the Fate

computer system.

It is a cerebral cortex for a vast intelligence network.

Information can almost be felt coursing through its hard

drives.

The Leader sits, at once regaining a measure of composure.

He takes a deep calming breath and accesses the system.

Dozens of monitors fill with images from all across the city,

most of them are of the damage caused by V.

Conrad Heyer appears on one of the screens.  He is at his

desk inside the command center for the Eye, the governmental

organization responsible for the visual surveillance systems.

On an insert screen, we see grainy footage of V rescuing Evey

from one of the pole-mounted cameras.

As the last body falls, V seems to pause and looks back over

his shoulder straight into the camera.

The Leader stares at the smiling face.

Bunny Etheridge appears on another screen.  Behind him, huge

spooling reels of audiotape wind constantly.

Finch, no longer the same young man, stands at the site of

the fireworks launch.

An intercom opens.

They answer in unison as Almond enters the office.  His face

is harder but he has the same violent gleam in his eye.

The Leader turns in his chair.

Almond does not.  The Leader leaps from his chair while

pounding the desk.

He moves around the desk at Almond.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

Evey is wearing a blindfold and V leads her by her

fingertips, guiding her almost as if they were dancing...

His fingers slip free of her and she reaches out.

He is behind her and he removes the blindfold, revealing his

house to her.

It is a labyrinth of interconnecting underground tunnels and

rooms.

The gallery is the main room as it is filled with an amazing

collection of human culture.  There is art that spans from

the renaissance to the painted covers of Eerie comics,

literature that ranges from Shakespeare to Spillane,

philosophy from Plato to Bukowski, and a vast collection of

nonfiction.

There are movie posters everywhere and an entire wall is

lined with videocassettes.

A jukebox stands in front of an enormous vinyl and CD

collection of music.

She punches a button and Billie Holiday begins to sing.

She stops suddenly and looks at him.  The offer is terribly

exciting but it is so unlike anything she has ever done that

it's almost impossible to imagine.

And she returns his smile.

EXT.  JORDAN TOWER

The only operating broadcast tower in London; home of the

Mouth.

INT.  RADIO BROADCAST BOOTH

Lewis Prothero leans forward and lets his voice pour like

syrup over the microphone.

He stops and coughs.

In the control booth, Roger Dascombe, his hair thinner now,

rubs his temple.

He clicks on the microphone.

He clears his voice and the red "record" light turns on.

Dascombe is unable to stop himself from smiling.

Prothero sits back, shaking his head.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V is alone, listening to the first morning broadcast.

He clicks off the radio.  Walking down a hall, he stops and

peers into Evey's new bedroom.

She is fast asleep, looking remarkably at peace.  Quietly, he

shuts the door.

EXT.  TRAIN STATION

People are hurrying to board a departing train.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Prothero is staring out his window.

He talks to his bodyguards almost as if talking to himself.

The guards look at each other, confused.

He turns back to his window.

EXT.  RAILROAD

The train rumbles along, heading for a tunnel.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Prothero watches the countryside rolling past.

Bodyguard 1 looks out the opposite window just as the train

enters the tunnel.

EXT.  TRAIN

For a flashing instant, we see V in silhouette, cloak

swirling around him like dark wings as he jumps from the

bridge onto the train.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Prothero and Bodyguard 2 stare at Bodyguard 1.

EXT.  TRAIN

Deep in the tunnel, a dark figure glides across the rooftops.

INT.  CONDUCTOR'S CAB

The conductor hears something on the roof.  He peers up just

as V swings down, smashing feet first into the cab.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

The brakes suddenly lock, throwing Bodyguard 2 into Prothero.

A moment later, the lights are cut off and the entire train

is plunged into complete darkness.

There is a muffled shriek followed by a sharp snap.

There is another sound, like the leather slap of a boxer

pounding a heavy bag, followed by the sound of the heavy bag

collapsing onto the floor.

He flicks on the lighter and, in the dim light of its flame,

he sees the smiling face.

V sits casually, arms folded, across from Prothero.  The

bodyguards lay dead on the floor.

V just smiles.

V nods and Prothero's eyes go wide.

On the floor, he sees the bodyguard's gun.  He kills the

lighter and dives for it.

In the darkness, we hear the struggle.  It ends quickly.

When the lighter flicks back on, V is holding it and the gun.

Prothero's heart begins to pound.

EXT.  LARKHILL RESETTLEMENT CAMP - FLASHBACK

A sign reads, "Larkhill Resettlement Camp."

A caged truck packed with minorities rolls into the gates

which are topped with spools of razor wire.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Prothero is sweating.

INT.  LARKHILL - PROTHERO'S OFFICE - FLASHBACK

Prothero admires his uniform in the mirror.

EXT.  LARKHILL OVENS - FLASHBACK

We see a detail of black and Indian men, shoveling mounds of

black ash from a series of furnace like ovens.

As the shovels lift, we see blackened bones and burnt skulls.

EXT.  LARKHILL MAIN YARD - FLASHBACK

Prothero saunters through the lines of camp prisoners.

Prothero steps in front of a woman who remains beautiful

despite the suffering she has endured.  Prothero smiles.

As the guards grab her, we become aware of a man that is

staring at Prothero.  He is one of the prisoners but we do

not see his face.

Prothero notices the man.  He doesn't like the way the man is

staring at him.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Prothero is terrified.

V nods.

V cocks the gun.

Trembling, Prothero sticks out his hand.  V lets the light

die for a moment.

When he flicks it back on, Prothero is holding a long, metal

syringe filled with a murky liquid.

He presses the gun barrel to Prothero's forehead.

Prothero begins to blubber.

Anger galvanizes his fear and steadily Prothero lifts the

needle towards his neck.

He jams the needle in and sinks the plunger.

INT.  TRAIN

Train workers with flashlights hurry through the cars.

He slams a shoulder against it and the door gives in.

Flashlights sweep over the dead bodyguards.  The train man

hears a strange gurgling rasp and he turns, finding Prothero

in his light.

Prothero is foaming at the mouth while a thick mucus bubbles

from his nose.  His breath comes in tiny rasps.

Prothero becomes more animate, trying to tell the man

something.

Suddenly, his body convulses and blood pours out his ears.

His body slumps over.

EXT.  TRAIN STATION

The station is swarming with police.  A stretcher wheels a

body in a black plastic bag out from Prothero's car.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Finch puffs on his pipe, staring at something spray painted

on the wall of the train car: a "V" with a circle around it.

Dominic, Finch's younger assistant, is holding a flower in

his rubber gloved hand.

Finch turns as a soldier with a radio steps into the car.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

The door opens and Finch steps in.

Finch looks at the ground.

He moves in close to Finch.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

Evey, alone in the Shadow Gallery, stares up at the

inscription above the crooked staircase.

She jumps, V suddenly appearing behind her.

She turns back to the carving.

She nods.

V drifts over to the big old Wurlitzer, fingers scanning the

song list.

She looks up at the inscription as an old blues song begins

to play.

She turns to him.

Evey smiles nervously.

The blues song curls in the air around them like a heavy

incense.

He spins her.

EXT.  WESTMINSTER ABBEY - DAY

The church doors have opened with the flow of parishioners as

the final mass of the day has ended.

The tide slowly pours out onto the sidewalk, separating

around the clumps of people that conglomerate to network and

gossip.

Church bells toll in the orange dusk above them.

Helen Heyer, a woman whose spite and guile are hidden behind

her looks and clothes she drapes them with, charges into the

gossipers, her trophy husband in tow, a timid looking man

that we recognize as Conrad Heyer.

Helen's head snaps over at the mention of the name.

She pushes past Conrad, giving Derek Almond an exuberant kiss

on both cheeks.

Always behind her husband, Rosemary Almond smiles nervously

as she straightens her drab church dress.

Helen pouts at him.

Derek taps the bottom of his cigarette box, drawing one with

his lips.

Helen rubs her white sable against her body.

Derek laughs as they climb into their car.

Rosemary waves as it pulls off.

Derek sneers at her.

He throws the cigarette at her feet.

INT.  WESTMINSTER ABBEY

From above, a hand sweeps aside the red plush curtain.

Bishop Anthony Lilliman is a slender man of pious elegance

with a warm, beautiful smile.

He turns from the window to his valet, Dennis, as Derek and

Rosemary get in their car.

He whisks a lint brush over the Bishop's robes before putting

them away.

A gentle smile spreads across his mouth.

Dennis finishes with the Bishop's robes and sweeps the closet

door shut.

Lilliman chuckles.

The Bishop rubs his cheek, ponderously.

EXT.  WESTMINSTER ABBEY - NIGHT

A pair of headlights melt through the heavy night's fog as a

taxicab pulls into the circle drive.

INT.  BISHOP'S QUARTERS

Dennis peers into the Bishop's living quarters.

Standing next to Dennis is Evey, wearing a frilly pink summer

dress, pigtails and bows and white ruffled socks.

Evey smiles awkwardly.

EXT.  WESTMINSTER ABBEY - NIGHT

A shadow begins moving across the manicured grounds borne on

the thick mist like a dark phantom.  V glides toward the

rectory, cloak undulating against the dark, wet wind.

INT.  BISHOP'S BEDROOM

It is extravagantly furnished, somewhere between posh and

pimp.  The Bishop is sitting very close to Evey on his plush

water bed.

Evey stammers, backing up along the bedside.

He paws at her, groping hands pushing the front of her dress

down as she backs up against the nightstand.

EXT.  MAIN GATE - NIGHT

The guards look out into the night, fear suddenly gripping

their faces.

V emerges demonically through the parting veils of fog, the

white smiling mask bobbing eerily up and down as he rushes

them.

A cigarette drops from the first guard's mouth, red embers

exploding when it hits the wet cement.

Close as the two guards claw for their arms and the white hot

flash of V's knives --

That slice like talons.

The two men crumple to the ground, clutching their gaping,

gurgling wounds.  A whisper.  V sprints into the courtyard.

INT.  BISHOP'S BEDROOM

Evey grabs a metal table lamp and swings it down on the

Bishop's head.  There is a shuddering clank and he collapses

to the floor.

His blood speckles the white bearskin throw rug as the Bishop

slowly rises after the retreating Evey.

He charges after her but freezes dead in his tracks as V

swings around the corner in front of him.

V bows.

Instantly, the point of one of V's knives is against the

Bishop's throat.  V presses a finger to his frozen smile.

Evey watches from around the corner.

Lilliman swallows audibly.

Evey looks down at the knives on his belt, dripping blood.

She begins backing to the door.

V turns back to Lilliman as Evey runs.

EXT.  WESTMINSTER ABBEY - NIGHT

Evey sprints past the dead guards at the man gate and into

the fog.

INT.  THE EAR

A cramped control room that looks like something between a

radio and television switching room, though it does not

broadcast.  It receives.

Two operators sit at the main substation as the sounds of

lovemaking come over the speakers.  The moans are stifled and

low, however, as if they were afraid someone was listening.

Operator 2 does not look at him, scrolling through an

intricate city map on his computer.

Operator 1 punches in some coordinates and the sound over the

speakers changes to a garbled fart of noise.  Two voices

drown beneath a cacophony of classical music.

He tries to dial out the background and suddenly the voices

rise clearly above the din.

The two men look at each other, Operator 1 lunging for a red

phone.

EXT.  BISHOP'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

Close on a stain of white vomit and blood on the thick pile

of a Persian rug.  It is encircled in police chalk.

Pull back to reveal the chalk outline where the body of

Bishop Lilliman was found.  The circled bloodstain floats

above the head like the last word balloon of a crude comic

strip character.

The Bishop's quarters is slowly being picked over by a

forensic team from the Nose.  A photographer's flash bursts

against a painted "V" on the wall near the body outline.

At the window, Finch chews on his pipe, staring at a plastic

evidence bag that contains a single violet carson rose.

Finch turns to a muscular man named Creedy, second in command

at the Finger.

INT.  CONRAD HEYER'S BEDROOM

Grunting like an animal, Derek's face is frozen, locked in

the rigor of a violent orgasm.  After a moment, he collapses

beside Helen onto the sweat soaked sheets.

She grabs her cigarette case and her lighter.

She straddles his chest then lights two cigarettes.

He smiles as she puts one of the cigarettes in his mouth.

She whispers in his ear.

He exhales through his grinding teeth.

He whispers.

Helen bolts up.

He smiles, blowing more smoke.

Helen's eyes gleam as he laughs.

He eyes her sucking on the cigarette.

He glares at her.

He smiles again and she presses her body to his.

His eyes close as he grinds his hips into hers and we rise,

drifting up to the ceiling light fixture --

Where we see a tiny hidden microphone.

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE - THE NOSE

Finch sits at his desk, staring into the silence of his

notepad.  He has doodled a little "V" with a circle around

it.

He looks up as Dominic enters, holding up a portable cassette

player.

He hands the player to Finch.

Finch smiles.

Finch punches "play".

Over the small speaker, we sear Evey protesting to V, then

run.  He stops it.

Finch starts it again and this time the tape is very fuzzy.

We recognize some of the words though muted and crackly.

Finch nods, understanding.

The tape becomes somewhat clearer as the music rests.

They eye each other.

He shuts off the tape.

Finch picks up the bag with the violet carson.

He rises, sliding into his jacket.

INT.  MORGUE

Close on the heavy stitching of a "Y" incision sewn into the

chest of a corpse.  It is one of the Bishop's guards.

Finch is standing next to the cadaver gurney with the

coroner, Delia Surridge.  She is a serious woman, hair wound

tight behind her head in a severe bun.

She fills the dead man's head with cotton and replaces the

top of his skull.

Pulling at the man's scalp, she stretches it over the

replaced skull piece.

She points at a jagged puncture wound at the base of the

man's sternum with a ball point pen.

Finch peers into the hole.

Finch hefts the pile of computer paper.

He flips through the document, biting into the wooden end of

his pipe.

Finch pulls the evidence bag from his pocket.

Delia's eyes lock onto the violet carson.

He hands it to her.

Delia, riveted to the rose, suddenly looks up to him.

He turns, leaving her with the rose.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V relaxes with a book in an overstuffed reading chair, a

violet carson rose resting on a table next to him.  He begins

to read a passage aloud.

He places the book down.  Thomas Pynchon's "V".

V rises, lifting the rose and moving into the darkness of the

Shadow Gallery.

EXT.  EMPTY STREET

A small figure moves down the dark wet street, the

cobblestones glistening like black scales.

The huddled figure arcs across the street in the shadows,

avoiding the pools of streetlight.  It is Evey, a frightened

look on her face.

INT.  KITTY KAT KELLER

A woman in combat boots, fishnets, and a tight fitting

soldier's uniform is in the middle of a cheeky number on

stage in this smoky burlesque bar.  It is a popular place

with locals and Fingermen.

Peter Creedy squeezes through the crowd, angling for the back

of the bar where a number of loud Fingermen are drinking.

Creedy leans in.

They break up in laughter, led by Creedy who sits next to

Harper, pouring himself a drink.

They all begin to hoot and whistle.

Creedy raises his drink.

Everyone cheers in agreement.

They salute and drink.

INT.  ALMOND HOME

Derek Almond sits hunched under a desk lamp, pumping the

cylinders of his revolver with a wire brush.

Rosemary shuffles up to him, her frumpy gown gathered around

her.

He blows down one of the cylinders, not looking up.

Derek stares at the gun, rage building.

Derek leaps up, slugging her.

Rosemary clatters to the ground in tears.  Derek glowering

over her.

He leans into her face.

He sits back in front of the gun, wiping it down.

INT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S HOME

Dr. Surridge sits somberly in the dark, street light

filtering in from the open curtains.

Her eyes fixed on the violet carson as she slowly turns it

over in her hands, fingers tracing the soft petals.

After a moment, she stands, letting it fall from her lap.

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE - THE NOSE

Finch turns as Dominic bursts in.

Dominic waves a printout.

Dominic smiles.

Finch slides in front of his computer.

INT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S BEDROOM

The covers pulled protectively up around her, Delia rests in

a light, uneasy sleep.

Suddenly, an eye pops open as she awakens, catching a

familiar scent.  She slowly sits up and inhales.

She closes her eyes.

From the shadows, V answers.

Tears begin to streak her face.

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE - THE NOSE

Dominic hangs over Finch's shoulder as Larkhill's employment

record comes up.

Finch's mouth falls open.

Row after row of names scroll by at the end of each bio are

the words: deceased, file closed.

The data banks unfurl like a mass grave.

Finch stops, staring at the one name whose file is not

closed --

Dr. Delia Surridge.

INT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S BEDROOM

V floats on the edge of the room's shadows, a dark angel.

She looks at the hovering, smiling mask.

She starts to cry again.

Delia thinks back.

The mask almost nods.

Her voice drops to an almost confessional whisper.

Delia rubs the salty tears from her eyes.

V watches her.

Her voice almost trails off.

INT.  ALMOND BEDROOM

Light sweeps across Rosemary from the opening bedroom door as

she sobs softly in bed.  Derek enters, holding a bottle of

whiskey and his clean gun.

She sits up as Derek looms over her.

He lifts the gun into her bruised face.  Her eyebrows cringe

as he slowly pulls the trigger.

Click.  It is empty.

The phone rings.

He grins evilly at her and answers the bedside phone.

Derek's drunk eyes light up.

He slams the phone down, charging out of the room.

EXT.  KITTY KAT KELLER

A gaggle of drunks exit the bar, laughing and singing as they

pass a small figure.

INT.  KITTY KAT KELLER

Evey wanders into the bar amidst the lustful screams and cat

calls for the line of high stepping, semi-clothed girls on

stage.

She stares out into the crowd, not sure why she is here when

a man approaches her: Creedy.  His sloppy smile indicates he

has had a few drinks.

She looks blankly at him.

She turns for the door.

Creedy frowns as his radio crackles.

He screams to the Fingermen at the back.

Evey watches as they storm out of the bar, then follows.

EXT.  CITY STREET

The emergency lights blaring, Finch's car squeals around a

corner.

INT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S BEDROOM

V hovers ghostly at Delia's bedside.

She manages a smile.

He reaches into his cloak.

He hands it to her.

V produces an empty syringe.

V sits on the bed.

She stares at the mask.

V slowly pulls off his hat and lifts his mask.  Delia stares

into his face.

The rose falls from her hands.

INT.  HALL

V quietly shuts the door as if not to wake her and turns just

as --

Derek Almond reaches the top of the stairs.

He trains his gun.

He squints.

The smiling mask stares.

Derek pulls back the hammer.

He smiles.

Click.  He never loaded it.

There is an awkward moment of silence, then V moves --

Cloak opening, filling the hall like a black tidal wave that

envelopes Derek.  He chokes a scream as V embraces him,

slipping a knife above his floating rib.

Derek Almond sputters as he claws at V's mask.

He rips V's mask off as V thrusts the knife in deeper.

Derek's eyes widen in horror as his life pours out the knife

wound.

V jerks his blade free, letting Derek slip to the ground.

EXT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S HOME

Finch's car bucks up onto the sidewalk.

Finch and Dominic tear out of the car and barrel into the

house.

INT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S HOME

At the top of the stairs, they find the dead Derek.  Finch

rushes past him for the bedroom.

Inside, he finds her.  Her eyes fixed, cold, and dead, a

single violet carson in her lap.

EXT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S HOME

Evey rushes around a corner to see a crime scene bathed in

siren light.  She pushes up to the police barricade as the

M.E.'s load a draped body into their van.

She tries to angle around to get a better look when a man in

a brown overcoat grabs her from behind and drags her into the

alley.

INT.  DELIA SURRIDGE'S BEDROOM

From the corner of the room, Finch sits, watching as the

M.E.'s wheel out Delia's body.

Dominic squeezes past the gurney and crosses toward Finch.

Finch nods.

Dominic searches for something more to say when Finch does

not answer.

After a moment, Finch looks at the book in Dominic's hand,

then takes it, leafing through the pages.  They flip by, a

breathy sigh, rising to a cold wind.

INT.  LARKHILL MEDICAL RESEARCH BLOCK - DAY - FLASHBACK

A younger Dr. Surridge, one by one, administers a series of

injections to her research stock.

She finishes an injection, Prothero encouraging the next

subject.  We recognize her as the woman Prothero pointed at.

Delia prepares the next dose, a sour look on her face.

INT.  LARKHILL OVENS - DAY - FLASHBACK

Two inmate orderlies are hefting sacked cadavers from a cart

into an incinerator.

Another body thuds onto the pile.

When it is full, they move to the next door until the cart is

empty.

Red heat suddenly glows from the oven vents as the orderly

throws a series of switches.

INT.  LARKHILL MEDICAL RESEARCH BLOCK - DAY - FLASHBACK

Dr. Surridge moves down the drab aseptic hallway accompanied

by an armed guard.  Roman numerals on the doors to each cell

ascend to five.

She pauses at room five.

She looks through the small chicken wire glass window in the

door.

In the back, just on the edge of the room's shadow, sits the

man in room five, silently staring back.

Dr. Surridge can't seem to break her stare.

EXT.  LARKHILL GARDEN - DAY - FLASHBACK

Dr. Surridge slowly moves through the Larkhill garden, an

incredible abundance of fruits, vegetables and violet carson

roses.

She traces the petals of a rose with her finger.

INT.  LARKHILL LOUNGE - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

Dr. Surridge and several other Larkhill appointees relax

after dinner.

A massive explosion shakes the building to its very core, its

windows shattering and hooded pendulum lights swinging.

EXT.  LARKHILL LOUNGE - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

Men and women clutch at their throats as they tumble out into

the yard.

They drop to the ground, gasping and vomiting.

The back door is kicked open, Dr. Surridge following two

guards.

She looks out, men running, collapsing, dying in a yellow

green haze that seems everywhere.

Another explosion wracks the compound.  The pillar of flame

rises into the black sky, dwarfing the men in the camp.

Dr. Surridge sees a gaping hole in the medical block, its

insides turned out like an unholy birth.

Close on a soldier, doubled over, hacking up bile.

A sticky blue fire licks up from a blackened body like a dura

flame.

Dr. Surridge turns as a silhouette crosses the yard, backlit

by a curtain of fire.

The man stops.

Dr. Surridge seems to wilt under his stare but cannot look

away.

The flames convulse hypnotically behind him.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

Finch snaps Dr. Surridge's journal shut.

He sits in front of the Leader's desk puffing on his pipe

while Susan stares coldly.

He tosses the journal on Susan's desk.

Finch rises, crossing to the wastebasket.

He taps his pipe into his hand, pouring the contents into the

wastebasket.

Finch brushes the ashes from his hands and begins repacking

his pipe.

Susan raises his head.

When he finishes repacking the pipe, he replaces it in his

mouth.

Finch begins relighting his pipe.

A flame leaps into the air.

Another burst.

The lighter slips back into his pocket.

Finch returns to his chair, letting out a huge cloud.

Finch leans forward.

Susan punches the desk.

And punches it again until his fist hurts.

Susan's collar chokes his face to an unnatural crimson.

After a moment, Finch stands, Susan hanging on his last word.

Finch turns, Susan calling after him as he leaves.

Finch pauses at the door.

INT.  CELL

Evey stirs as voices drift in from the hall outside her door.

Three guards are silhouetted in the doorway of a cramped jail

cell.  Still sluggish from the chloroform, Evey looks down at

the coarse slipover she's now wearing.

One of the men, Rossiter, crosses toward Evey, swinging a

pair of shackles.  He grabs Evey, slamming her face down into

the hard cot, driving a knee between her shoulder blades.

Evey screams.

The shackles bite down on her wrists as they laugh in the

hall.

Rossiter stands her up, shoving her into the wall.

He slides a thick hood over her head.

INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

The hood is lifted from her head.  Evey squints hard, awash

in a blinding, burning light.

A man sits, unmoving, at a desk across from her, a guard at

his side, both backlit by a harsh white kliegs.

Evey's eyes start to water as she blinks.

A monitor next to the desk lights up.  From the snowy static,

an image begins to form.

A girl is talking to a man.  She is shoving her hips at him,

propositioning him.  When more men appear from the alley,

Evey realizes she is watching herself.

Rossiter grabs a handful of her hair.

She swallows hard when she sees V emerge on the screen.  The

image freezes on his smiling face.

The monitor blinks off.

Rossiter slips the hood back over Evey's head.

INT.  PROCESSING ROOM

Evey cries as a rough hand runs a pair of electric clippers

over her head.  Huge sheaves of her hair fall to the ground.

INT.  CELL

Evey lies crumpled on the hard floor, unmoving, as a tray of

food is slid through a slot at the bottom of the door.

She watches as a rat crosses from a hole in the wall,

sniffing the murky rendered gelatin in the wooden bowl.

INT.  PROCESSING ROOM

Evey hangs limply from a set of manacles as she is washed and

deloused by heavy hands.

She coughs in the yellow bug powder cloud as it burns her

eyes and the red welts on her back.

INT.  CELL

Evey is curled up on the cot like a dry fetus, now gaunt arms

wrapped around her legs.  She blinks when she hears something

moving in the rat hole.

Evey raises her head as something is pushed through the

crevice.

Tentative fingers search the hole, pulling out a length of

toilet paper.  Over every inch of it is a delicately scrawled

message.

We move into the rathole, its edges slowly filling the frame

until black.

EXT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

Pull back from a shadow, the outline of the interrogator's

silhouette against sharp light coming into frame.

Rossiter is buckling Evey's thin arms and legs into a chair.

Her now frail frame can barely hold up the frayed brown

slipover.

On the table in front of her, there is a large wash basin of

water.  Rossiter dunks her head into it.

INT.  CLASSROOM - DAY - FLASHBACK

A teacher reads from her lesson plan in front of rows and

rows of uniformed pubescences in this all girl private

school.  Her voice drones on and on like Muzak.

A blonde tomboy sneaks a smile to her curly haired friend

next to her.

Her hand slides across the desk, fingers tickling the young

flesh of Sara's wrist.

The teacher's voice slows, dropping octaves, becoming --

INT.  BIOLOGY LAB - DAY - FLASHBACK

A man's voice.

Valerie looks at Sara across the room, her head down in

shame.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - DAY - FLASHBACK

Two teenage girls stand in front of a middle aged couple.

They are holding hands.

The greying woman repeats the sign of the cross over and

over, sobbing into a handkerchief.  Her husband's face is

contorted in disgust.

EXT.  PARK - DAY - FLASHBACK

Two young women cuddle on a park bench under a London summer

sky, feeding the pigeons.

The black haired girl nibbles on the blonde's ear.

INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

Evey struggles against Rossiter's weight who keeps her head

submerged.

Rossiter wrenches back and Evey sucks hard for air, coughing

out water.

Evey stares at him, eyes red, heart pounding in her ears.

Evey begins to shake her head, water sluicing off her thin

face.

Rossiter grabs Evey's neck --

Plunging her head into the bowl.  Water fills Evey's nose and

ears.

INT.  THEATRE - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

The packed house watches as a Prince kneels before a woman's

bare foot with a slipper of glass.

The woman glances into the dark sea of faces.

EXT.  MEADOW - DAY - FLASHBACK

Two women weep in each other's arms, embracing in a perfect

knee high meadow.

The blonde woman brushes away a tear from the other's cheek.

We pull back and see we are on location for a movie and the

two women are being filmed.

INT.  CONDO - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

Ruth and Valerie sit on the couch watching television.  On

the table behind them is a bouquet of violet carson roses.

The two women stare at the newscast in tears, the sound of

marching coming from the set's speakers.

EXT.  LONDON STREET - DAY - FLASHBACK

The sound of marching explodes as columns of men in brown

uniforms and jack boots fill the streets.

INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

Rossiter presses his elbow onto Evey's neck, holding her

submerged.

Rossiter lets Evey up.  Her red burnt lungs gulp at the air.

Evey blinks hard, black fireworks exploding in her eyes.

She wheezes, on the edge of unconsciousness.

The interrogator's voice melts into a slag heap of sound with

the hot, rhythmic pounding in her ears.

Rossiter uncuffs Evey, slipping the black bag over her head.

Evey's knees buckle as he forces her to stand.

Evey weaves down the hall.  Rossiter shoving her from behind.

The cell door swings open.

Rossiter yanks the hood from her head and pushes her in.

The iron door slams shut, lock ringing in the stale air.

Evey rolls to her knees.

She crawls for the rat hole.

Her shaking hand pulls the letter from the stone crevice.

Evey clutches it like a rosary as she begins to cry.

She holds the note to her face, her tears soaking into the

fragile paper.

Slowly, Evey slips away, succumbing to blackness.

INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

Loud lights blare against Evey's solemn face.

A typed document sits on a small tray table in front of her.

Rossiter hovers just behind her as the Interrogator reads her

confession.

Evey's expression is unchanging.

Rossiter drops a pen on the table.

The pen slowly rocks to a stop.

She blinks.

Rossiter begins unbuckling Evey's restraints.

He forces Evey to her feet.

INT.  CELL

The door opens behind Evey as she rereads Valerie's letter

for the last time.

She holds the tattered piece of toilet paper to her chest.

Evey closes her eyes.

Her last words hang in the air.

He turns and leaves.

She listens as his footsteps fade down the hall, the door

hanging weirdly open.

Evey takes a few tentative steps toward the door and sticks

her head out into the empty hall, peering down both ways.

Slowly, she emerges from her cell, retracing her path down

the hall that her blindfold never allowed her to see.

Quietly inching along the wall, Evey peeks around a corner,

gasping at the rigid guard standing off to the side.  There

is something about the man's frozen stare that keeps her from

running.

Evey straightens and crosses to the guard.

It is a mannequin.

She touches him, the wheeled platform he is mounted on

rolling back against the wall.

INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM

The door creaks open as Evey enters the room where for so

long she was questioned and tortured.

She crosses to the frozen Interrogator sitting at his desk.

Her finger brushes lightly against the plastic hand, then

Evey raps a knuckle on his hollow wooden head.  Around his

neck a small speaker hangs from a cord.

Evey drifts uneasily into a back room where a discarded

prison guard's uniform hangs on a rack.  On a table next to a

wig and pair of gloves, the rat looks up at her through the

bars of its tiny cage.

She moves through another door, the wind suddenly knocked

from her chest as she finally sees where her prison was

built --

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V steps from the shadows.

Her mouth hangs open.

Evey's rail thin figure begins to shake.

She stumbles against the wall, unable to support herself.

She doubles over, covering her face as she bursts into tears.

Evey looks up at him, body shivering as he quietly glides

toward her.

A look of horror twists her starved face.

Slender fingers ball into fists.

Disgust and anger light up her eyes.

Her little, wiry body coils tight as she circles him.

She wheels away from him, covering her ears, trying to get

away from his voice.

Evey falls, stumbling through the labyrinth of the Shadow

Gallery.

She collapses, head pounding.

V couches next to her.

He cradles her as she hyperventilates, tears streaming down

her face.

The mask hovers over her.

He squeezes her shuddering body.

Gently, he lifts her.

He helps her to an open elevator.

The cage in the elevator rattles shut.

EXT.  ROOF - NIGHT

The two figures stand in the door of the roof access, a

raging tempest oozing from a split sky.

Something draws Evey out into the storm.

Slowly, she walks beneath it, the wind and rain pounding

against her thin frame.  Evey lets the coarse slipover fall

to the ground and stares straight up into the storm, naked,

the elements soaking into her very being.

V moves up behind her.

A low rumble of thunder washes over London.

His words buffet against her with the sheets of rain.

She raises her arms to embrace the raging torrent.

A jagged bolt of lightning shatters the sky.

EXT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING

Finch gets out of a police car and looks up the black face of

the modern building.  He sighs and taps his pipe against the

heel of his shoe.

Finch turns to find Dascombe hurrying towards him.

Finch chews on his pipe.

He turns and heads into the building.

FADE IN:

EXT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING - DAY

A dark November sky hangs like a shroud over the building.

INT.  COUNCIL CONFERENCE ROOM

The heads of each department are gathered around a table of

black granite.

Peter Creedy, sitting back out of the lights, is the new head

of the Finger.

He glares at Finch.

The Leader trembles like a volcano set to blow.

The Leader grabs a large box from the floor and hurls reams

of computer printout across the table.

He punches a "play" button and a wall of monitors blink on.

It is a recording of a television variety show.

A character that is made to look like Adam Susan is giving a

speech.  A woman is dressed like V except that the only thing

she is wearing under her cloak is a garter belt, stockings

and high heels.

V sneaks up behind Susan and yanks his pants down.  Susan is

outraged but when he gives chase he trips over his pants.

The audience hoots and howls.

The Leader kills the tape.

He stares each of them to silence.

He pauses.

Everyone is stunned.

INT.  LEADER'S PRIVATE QUARTERS

The Leader stands at the window.

His eyes bore into him.

EXT.  ALLEYWAY

A police car is parked in a dark alley.  It is raining and

the windows of the car are completely steamed.

He is sweating, his knuckles white as he squeezes the

steering wheel, panting.

We hear a noise like a very wet kiss and then a woman's

voice.

Helen lifts her head out of his lap.  Her lipstick is smeared

about her mouth.

She whispers in his ear while playing with his lap.

She lowers her head into this lap.

Helen lifts her head.

Her head drops back down.  Creedy moans.

The name seems to orgasm from his mouth.

INT.  FINCH'S APARTMENT

Finch sits alone in his modest apartment, reading a book.

The book is Koesterler's, "The Roots of Coincidence."

An old CD player is playing music, a Bach piano concerto.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V is playing the exact same concerto on his piano, his gloved

fingers gracefully flitting across the keys.

Evey enters the gallery.  Her hair has grown out but is still

short.  She projects a kind of strength that comes from a

deep inner peace.

V coaxes the final delicate notes and lets them softly fade.

She walks up to him and takes the smiling face in her hands.

She bends and gently kisses the frozen lips.

She takes the letter from her pocket.

She looks down.

INT.  VALERIE'S ROOM

It is a shrine.  The walls are covered with movie posters and

reviews and pictures of an actresses named Valerie Page.  We

recognize her as the woman chosen for the medical block just

before V.

Everywhere there are flower boxes filled with blooming roses;

violet carsons.

Evey smiles and bends to smell the roses.

Evey cocks an eyebrow.

INT.  UNDERGROUND STAIRWELL

Carrying a lantern, V leads Evey down a dark stone staircase.

He pushes a button and a secret passage opens in a heavy

stone wall.

There is a small narrow series of passageways that he guides

her through, leading to another door.  Evey steps out into an

underground subway station.

INT.  VICTORIA STATION

Parked beside the concrete platform is a beautiful antique

train car.

Evey steps into the train car and finds it filled with little

packages wrapped in wax paper.

She screams and almost drops one.

V nods.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

The Leader sits bathed in the flickering images of the Fate

computer.

On one of the screens, a television program has just begun.

We cut from that screen to another screen --

INT.  JORDAN TOWER - CONTROL BOOTH

The television studio where Roger Dascombe surveys a large

bank of monitors filled with the images of typically vapid

television entertainment.

A player locks on as a recorded program begins.  We move in

as the logo slashes across the screen: Storm Saxon.

We pull back from the show's opening teaser and find

ourselves looking at a small television.

INT.  JORDAN TOWER

In the delivery bay at the back of Jordan tower, five

security guards are riveted to the heroic actions of Storm

Saxon.

Behind them, a shadowy figure in a cloak and tall hat enters

the loading bay.

They all turn and find a smiling V.

They go for their weapons.  V goes for them.  It is brutal

and quick, knives slicing in bloody arcs, bodies kicked and

thrown with superhuman power.

The TV crashes to the ground and we move in at it as Storm

Saxon stands triumphant beside his buxom lass.

We pull back on another television screen inside --

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE

Dominic is chewing on a hamburger, engrossed in Storm Saxon.

Across the room, Finch is reading the "Roots of Coincidence."

Dominic answers with a mouthful of cheeseburger.

Finch shakes his head, reaching for his pipe.  He realizes he

is out of tobacco.  He slides open the bottom desk drawer and

his eyes almost pop out of his head.

He stares into the drawer like someone staring at his own

tombstone.

Slowly, he lifts something from the drawer.  On his desk, he

lays out several knives, a cloak, a hat, and a smiling mask.

Finch lifts the mask and almost has to laugh.

He puts the mask to his face.

INT.  JORDAN TOWER

V emerges from an elevator and immediately attacks several

more guards.  A surveillance camera watches as V steps over

their slumped, broken bodies.

INT.  CONTROL CENTER

The security guard sees V on the monitor coming directly down

the hall.

He grabs the machine gun, aiming it just as V kicks open the

door.

V stops.  At least five guards have trained their weapons on

him.  He is surrounded.

Slowly, he lifts his arms as though surrendering.  His cloak

opens, revealing enough TNT to level the entire building.  In

his hand is the plunger detonator.

V nods.

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE

The door bursts open as Creedy and a group of heavily armed

Fingermen muscle in.

INT.  JORDAN TOWER

V follows Roger Dascombe into the main control booth.  The

door shuts behind them and they are alone.

All around them are the laugh tracks and gunshots of the

evening's entertainment.

V puts his hand into his cloak and pulls out a videotape.  He

hands it to Dascombe.

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE

Finch glares at Creedy.

Creedy smiles, his finger tightening on the trigger when --

He points at the television where V sits calmly at a desk in

front of the "VTV" logo.

Finch and Dominic rush out of the room.  Creedy looks at his

confused men.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

V smiles at the horrified Adam Susan.

The Leader screams, pounding on Fate.

He hits the intercom.

We move in at VTV.

We pull back in --

INT.  LIVING ROOM

A family watching television.  In the background, two

children are squabbling.

The husband does.  V's voice gets louder as we move towards

him.

INT.  APARTMENT

A man sits on his couch, mesmerized by V.

He pops his beer tab and the beer foams over the couch but he

doesn't seem to notice.

INT.  FINCH'S POLICE CAR

The car races wildly towards Jordan tower as Finch and

Dominic listen to the broadcast on the radio.

INT.  LEADER'S TRANSPORT

The Leader seethes, staring at three television monitors in

his limo which are all filled with V.

INT.  KITTY KAT KELLER

The bar is almost completely soundless except for the voice

of V.  People stare at the television as if the moment were

somehow suspended in time.

EXT.  JORDAN TOWER

The military forces have begun to swarm.

EXT.  TELEVISION STORE

A crowd has gathered, watching through the window.

EXT.  JORDAN TOWER

The Leader climbs out of his limo and is met by one of his

captains.

INT.  FINCH'S CAR

Finch can see the forces gathering outside Jordan tower.

Finch catches a glimpse of himself in the mirror.

INT.  CONTROL BOOTH

VTV fills every screen.

INT.  JORDAN TOWER - HALLWAY

A heavy battering ram is rushed down the hall, carried by

four soldiers.

EXT.  TELEVISION STORE

The crowd is much larger.

Every screen suddenly goes black.  The crowd turns to each

other, unsure of what to do.

INT.  CONTROL BOOTH

The door explodes open.  V is standing alone, almost as if

waiting for them.

Before he can even move, they shoot.  Machine gun fire lights

up the room.  V's body dances and jerks backward, smashing

through an observation window --

Falling to the television stage below.

INT.  HALL

A path is cleared for the Leader.  As he heads into the

television studio, an armed soldier is heading in the

opposite direction.

It is impossible to tell because of the dark face plate but

it looks like the soldier is smiling.

The Leader shoves his way onto the main stage.  A group of

soldiers is gathered around the body.

The mask is pried off, revealing the lifeless face of Roger

Dascombe.  To the Leader, it is an obvious revelation.

Finch's voice stops the Leader cold.

He eyes the room.  Everyone is silent.

The Leader storms past Finch who looks at Dascombe and bites

down on his pipe.

EXT.  CITY STREET

One of the Ear's black vans has been modified with large

speakers wired to the roof.  As the van rolls down the

street, the speakers drone with a looped message.

Out of the back, soldiers hurl leaflets that swirl and

flutter in the van's wake.

The little girl on the bicycle that we saw earlier stops and

picks up one of the leaflets.

It has a picture with the body of Roger Dascombe beneath the

headline, "The terrorist is dead!  London is safe once

again!"

She crumbles the leaflet and throws it.

She gets off her bike and takes something out of the

backpack.

Turning to a nearby wall, she spray paints a large circle

around a "V".

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE

A recording of VTV plays on the small television.

Dominic freezes the image; V stares at them, smiling.

Finch stares out the window.

Finch smiles.

He rewinds and starts the tape.

INT.  CONRAD'S BEDROOM

V continues on a different television.

Helen Heyer is lying on her bed, eating chocolates, watching

V through calculating eyes.

At her feet, we hear a suckling noise that suddenly stops.

She shoves her foot back into his mouth and he continues to

suck on it and each of her toes.

Conrad moves up her ankle, licking and kissing his way to her

knee.

She freezes the tape.  Her eyes light up and she smiles back

at him.

Conrad licks along the inside of her thigh until she slaps

him.

She shoves the candy in his mouth.

She smiles.

He nods still gagged with the candy.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

There are cameras set in front of the large black leather

chair so that the flashing images and data of the Fate

computer system can be seen behind the Leader.

A makeup artist mattes down the Leader's lipstick.

The makeup artist adjusts one last hair and scurries off.

He points and the camera's red light goes on.

INT.  LIVING ROOM

The same family, the same squabbling children watching as a

"Special Bulletin" interrupts a laugh track.

EXT.  TELEVISION STORE - NIGHT

No one is watching.

INT.  KITTY KAT KELLER

A drunk struggles up onto his bar stool blocking the TV.

The drunk raises his glass.

The bar cheers.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

The Leader reaches for his Bible.

EXT.  STREET CORNER - NIGHT

The megaphones blast the Leader's voice.

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE

There are stacks of printout everywhere.

Finch stops reading, listening to the radio.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

Another radio crackles with the Leader's voice.

V nods, almost laughing as Evey enters the gallery.

He reaches over and changes the frequency.  We hear voices,

hushed and secret but we recognize them.

The voices are labored, punctuated by gasps and moans.

We are pulled by the radio into --

INT.  CREEDY'S BEDROOM

Where we see a tiny microphone hidden in the ceiling light

above the bed.

Helen moans as we drift down, glimpsing Helen, her arms

reaching for the edges of the bed, her back arching up

towards Creedy, behind her, smiling.

He inserts a finger into her.

That sends a shiver through Helen's body.

Her eyes close and her fists knot the sheets.

The word is almost lost in her orgasm.

EXT.  LONDON

The sun rises over London.  It is the morning of the fourth.

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE

Finch looks through the blinds at the morning sun.  He has

been up all night.  He checks his watch: 6:00am.

Rubbing the knot in his neck, he turns back to his office

which is now buried beneath mounds of paper.

Dominic is passed out, sprawled on the couch, and clutching a

printout from Spencer's "Fairy Queen."

Dominic jumps, immediately searching the printout.

Dominic lets the papers fall to the floor.

EXT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING

Conrad pulls his car into his reserved space.

INT.  CAR

Helen holds Conrad's chin the way a mother holds a child when

she is telling them something important.

Conrad nods.

He embraces her to kiss but she turns her perfectly painted

lips.

Ardently, he kisses her cheek.

INT.  FINCH'S OFFICE

Finch sits alone, palms pressed to his bleary eyes.

With a red pen, he begins absently drawing red circles around

any V he sees on any piece of paper.

Victims.  Vectors.  Values.  Victory.  Words from quotes and

lists.

Suddenly, he stops.  Carefully, as if reaching to touch a

butterfly, he slips a single sheet out from the sheaves

covering his desk.

The paper has a long list: the names of all the Queens of

England.  He has circled in red the V in Victoria.

When it hits him, it hits him like a falling safe.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

The intercom clicks on.

The door slaps open.

The Leader waves the Lieutenant off.

She glances at Conrad.

The Leader studies her.

EXT.  CITY STREET

In his car, Finch races to a corner and slams on the brakes.

He gets out, staring at a shadow on the ground: a "V" in a

circle.

The shadow is cast by a sign for Victoria Station, part of

the abandoned subway.

The gates are chained shut.  He fires his pistol into the

lock, kicks open the rusting gates, and descends into the

underground.

INT.  LEADER'S PRIVATE QUARTERS

The Leader closes the door behind them.

She is unable to go on, seemingly about to burst into tears.

He touches her and it is all she needs.  She buries her face

into his chest.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

Conrad is alone with Fate.  He glances about nervously,

moving closer and closer.  His fingers reach out and graze

the main keyboard.  Taking a deep breath, he turns and begins

to type.

INT.  PRIVATE QUARTERS

The Leader takes hold of Helen by her shoulders.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

Conrad accesses the department of water and power.  He finds

the correct file and begins rerouting power to a once dead

system.

INT.  V'S TRAIN STATION

A hanging light suddenly sizzles to life.  V looks up,

smiling.

INT.  LEADER'S PRIVATE QUARTERS

The Leader stares hard at Helen.

She clutches him.

Tears well up in Helen's eyes as she shakes her head.

His eyes fly wide and he spins away from her, throwing open

the door.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

Conrad sits calmly across the room.

He turns to Helen.

The Lieutenant appears almost instantly.

Helen looks up at the Leader, a smile hidden near the corners

of her perfect red lips.

The Leader nods.

INT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING

Helen and Conrad get out of the elevator, standing beneath

the rows of new party flags that line the lobby.

She embraces him, pressing her body against his.

She almost kisses him.

Smiling, she pivots on her heel and heads for the door.  He

reaches for her when --

The front desk guard rushes towards him.

He hands him a small, brown wrapped box.

He looks back for Helen but she is already gone.

INT.  SUBWAY

A single flashlight beam creeps toward us as Finch searches

the detritus of the dead train line.

INT.  CONRAD'S CAR

Sitting at a stoplight, Conrad decides to open the package.

Inside is a cassette tape.  The light changes and a car

behind him honks.  He starts forward and inserts the tape.

INT.  SUBWAY

Finch crawls up onto the platform of V's hidden station,

staring at the beautiful old train car.

INT.  CONRAD'S CAR

Strangling the steering wheel, Conrad listens to the tape.

The speedometer climbs as everything seems to accelerate.

Helen moans.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Finch steps inside the car, his flashlight sweeping over the

stacks of gelignite.

INT.  CONRAD'S CAR

A scream builds in Conrad.  With tears in his eyes, he stares

out the windshield but sees only the images created by the

tape.

Conrad loses control and the car careens up onto the sidewalk

and smashes into a brick wall.

Lifting his bloodied forehead, Conrad looks out and sees the

ubiquitous poster partially destroyed by the crash: "Strength

through purity, purity through faith."

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Finch hears something and jerks back, almost falling out of

the car.  Aiming his gun, he finds no one.  He turns and

bolts.

As the sound of his footsteps fade, V steps out of the

shadows.

INT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING

The Leader's Lieutenant looks up from his desk and sees Finch

rushing towards him.

Finch charges through the doors.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

The Leader and his Captain turn.

EXT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

Creedy opens the trunk of his car.  In the phosphorescent

glow of the streetlight, the set of knives gleam.  He bundles

the costume that he tried to planet on Finch into his arms,

then slams the trunk.

Above, a window blind that was cracked open snaps shut.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

The Leader moves towards Finch.

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

Conrad waits, hidden inside a bedroom closet.  He hears the

front door close and his grip tightens around the handle of a

long, steel-necked hammer.

INT.  LEADER'S OFFICE

The Leader is steadily convincing himself of something.

The Leader lifts his hand, silencing Finch.

Finch is suddenly overwhelmed by a feeling that is common to

chess players.  It is the disturbing sense that you have just

done exactly what your opponent wanted.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

Evey sits in the gallery, reading Pynchon's "V" just as V had

done.  She suddenly feels V watching her.

Evey smiles as V steps out of the shadows.

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

Creedy empties a bottom drawer, making room to hide the

costume.  As he does, the closet door behind him slowly

creeps open.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V stands at the jukebox.

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

A dark figure stands over Creedy.  The hammer raises, a slash

of silver against the velvety darkness.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V punches a button on the jukebox just as --

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

The hammer falls with a sickening soft crunch.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

The song begins to play; a melancholy song that says goodbye

to love.

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

Blood pours down Creedy's snarling face, he snatches one of

V's knives as another hammer blow cracks through his collar

bone.

He screams, lunging at Conrad.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

V listens to the song, the smiling eyes somehow knowing.

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

The hammer falls again and again until the metal head is

slick with blood and meat.

Conrad stumbles back, dropping the hammer.  He looks down at

the hilt of the knife protruding from his stomach.  He yanks

it out and holds V's knife which is bright red with his own

blood.

He collapses to the floor.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

The song continues.

Evey smiles and crosses to him.

He opens his arms and she steps into them.  They dance,

standing very close, his gloved hand holding tightly to hers,

her smile against his.

EXT.  CITY STREET

Dozens of military vehicles swarm around the entrance to

Victoria Station while heavily armed men pour through the

gates of the underground.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

The song ends.

He bows, pressing his frozen lips to her hand.  Evey is

suddenly nervous.

She seizes hold of his hand.

She lets him go.

INT.  TRAIN STATION

Soldiers swarm through the station.  Susan stares in shock,

outraged by the mere presence of the train.

He turns to the Captain.

Suddenly the lights go out.

The Leader smiles.

INT.  TRAIN TUNNELS

Five soldiers creep forward in a tight formation, their

flashlights probing every nook and cranny.

Behind them, a secret passage opens and V steps out.

He is among them with frightful speed, a grinning dervish

with blades like metal fangs ripping and rending flesh,

slashing bright in the flashlight.

Other soldiers rush towards the screams and gunfire but they

find only five bodies and warm blood running down the walls.

From the opposite end, there is another series of screams and

machine gun fire that lights up the dark tunnel for a moment.

Then, nothing.

Back in the tunnels, V drops from above, his cloak a swirling

cloud of squid ink that hides him in the darkness.

Again, quicksilver knives lash out, drawing fonts of blood.

INT.  TRAIN STATION

Finch can feel the panic that is spreading through the

tunnel.

A voice rings out from hidden speakers, echoing through the

tunnels.

The Leader screams to be heard over the resonant voice of V.

Everywhere, terrified soldiers listen to the voice.

Deep in the tunnel, two soldiers look at each other.

Simultaneously, they drop their guns and run.

Groups of solders drop their weapons and disappear into the

shadows.

The station fills with the sound of boots running wildly

away.

Finch slowly draws back away from the Leader.

The few men on the platform are soon the only men left.

A knife sings through the air and buries itself in the

Captain's chest.  With a tiny rasp, he falls to the ground.

The remaining men bolt.

He grabs for the Captain's machine gun.

"You" echoes down the dark empty throat of the tunnel.

The Leader looks around, his flashlight sweeping in big arcs

as he realizes that he is alone.

The Leader screams, whipping around towards the voice.

The smile is as cold and as sharp as the knife that flicks

from his hand.

The Leader raises his gun just when the knife sinks into his

shoulder.

Howling in pain, he drops the gun.

V smiles into the spot of his flashlight.

V closes in.

V draws his final blade.

V raises the knife.

V and the Leader turn to find Finch aiming a machine gun at

V.

V does and Susan begins an almost hysterical laugh.

He steps toward V, staring into his smiling black eyes.

Finch ignores the Leader.

He tosses the gun to the Leader.

The Leader seethes, his eyes boring into Finch.

The machine gun burst shatters the quiet concrete silence.

Finch falls dead at V's feet.

He aims the gun at V.

The Leader laughs.

Almost casually, V bends down to pick up the knife --

The Leader screams and fires.

Bullets knock V back a bit but he continues, grabbing the

knife and standing.

Eyes widening with disbelief, the Leader fires another blast

as V begins walking towards him.

The machine gun roars, bullets shredding out through the back

of V's cloak as he continues with short deliberate steps

until --

The hammer clicks against the pin.  The gun is empty.

V stands before him.

V smiles.

The Leader screams.

V drives the knife into his heart, killing him instantly.

V stands alone amidst the carnage and seeping pools of red.

His body wavers.  He takes his hands out from beneath his

cloak and reveals his gloves, wet with blood.

INT.  CONRAD'S HOUSE

The front door opens and Helen enters.

She walks up the stairs to the bedroom.

INT.  BEDROOM

She steps into the room, her sole and heel sinking into the

plush carpet soaked with blood.

When she sees Creedy's head mashed open, she covers her

mouth.

Conrad has propped himself against the bed.

He crawls toward her, slipping on the wet carpet.

He reaches for her foot, his hand gloved with wet red.

She checks her watch; two hours to midnight.

Conrad seizes hold of her ankle.

The look in his eyes frightens her.  She tries to kick free

of him but he won't let go.  Twisting, she reaches for the

door but slips on the carpet.

He crawls up her body still clutching the bloody knife.

Conrad raises the knife.

The knife falls.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

Evey hears V on the spiral staircase.

Scarlet footprints trail behind V as he struggles down the

stairs.

He nods and then collapses, rolling down the rest of the

stairs.

Running to him, she falls to his side.  His clothes are slick

with blood.

His voice strains beneath the mask.

Trembling, Evey holds him.

He reaches up and wipes a tear from her cheek.

Holding him as tight as she can, she feels his life drain

away, slipping through her arms in the way the last grains of

sand pour through the neck of the hourglass.

She buries her face beside his and weeps.

EXT.  CITY STREET

An enormous crowd has begun to gather in the streets

surrounding the New Government Building.  With the crowd, a

restlessness swells against each barricade erected by the

military.

A sergeant stands on an armored car, speaking through a

megaphone.

INT.  SHADOW GALLERY

Evey huddles against the stair railing, her face tear

stained, staring at the lifeless body of V.

She touches the mask, her fingers finding its edge.

Her fingers stop.

Evey stares into the eyes, the dark, empty eyes.

Her expression changes.

A small smile creeps across her face.

EXT.  CITY STREET

Midnight approaches and the crowd feels it.  Spilling

everywhere, they fill the streets like a flood.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Evey sets a final violet carson on the chest of V.  He is

lying on a bed made of gelignite, covered in roses.

Touching his mask, she bends over him.

Tenderly, she presses her lips to the smile, her eyes

closing, her final tears blinking free.

She backs away and V smiles, his lips wet with her kiss, his

cheek wet with her tears.

On the train platform, Evey reaches through the window and

starts the train.

The wheels churn as the train lurches forward.

She watches the train disappear into the tunnel.

EXT.  CITY STREET

The crowd surges against a barricade when a voice cries out

across the city echoing through the megaphone on every

corner.

High above the gathered mass, a masked figure steps out onto

a roof parapet.

The crowd explodes.

INT.  SUBWAY

The train barrels along, screaming against its rusted rails.

EXT.  ROOFTOP

Dressed as V, Evey stands on the roof's edge, speaking into a

microphone.

Again, the crowd bursts into a frenzy.

The voice booms over the mesmerized crowd.

She feels the sea of humanity beneath her, almost channeling

their energy.

The crowd screams as one and their scream becomes --

INT.  SUBWAY

The train hurling like a bullet through a gun barrel.  Ahead

the tracks end, buried beneath the rubble of the collapsed

tunnel.

INT.  TRAIN CAR

Inside the rattling train, V lays in perfect repose.

EXT.  ROOFTOPS

Hidden and alone, Evey pulls the mask from her face.

Almost unconsciously, Evey raises her hand and coaxes the

first soft notes as he had once done.

The violins of the 1812 overture steadily rise.

Evey smiles, her hand still gently conducting.

INT.  SUBWAY

With the clash of cymbals, the train crashes into the wall of

rubble.

EXT.  NEW GOVERNMENT BUILDING

The entire building opens like a time-lapsed rose blooming

with brilliant orange petals of flame.

EXT.  CITY STREET

The crowd is awash in the baptismal glow of erupting flame.

EXT.  ROOFTOP

Evey watches the explosion, a star-burst of flaming debris

searing against the night sky like fireworks.

EXT.  CITY STREET

The masses burst through the barricades with a euphoric

frenzy.

EXT.  ROOFTOP

The explosion begins to slowly die.

She looks down at the mask.

She smiles.

The fire fades and Evey turns, cradling the mask, and walks

away.

