OAXATAL PRODUCTIONS, INC.

COPYRIGHT

APRIL 1, 1987

THIRD DRAFT

Rev. 4/2/87

Rev. 4/15/87

Rev. 4/20/87

Rev. 4/23/87

EXT. WALL STREET - EARLY MORNING

FADE IN. THE STREET. The most famous third of a mile in the

world. Towering landmark structures nearly blot out the

dreary grey flannel sky. The morning rush hour crowds swarm

through the dark, narrow streets like mice in a maze, all in

pursuit of one thing: MONEY... CREDITS RUN.

INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - EARLY MORNING

We hear the ROAR of the trains pulling out of the station.

Blurred faces, bodies, suits, hats, attache cases float into

view pressed like sardines against the sides of a door which

now open, releasing an outward velocity of anger and greed,

one of them BUD FOX.

EXT. SUBWAY EXIT - MORNING

The bubbling mass charges up the stairs. Steam rises from a

grating, shapes merging into the crowd. Past the HOMELESS

VETS, the insane BAG LADY with 12 cats and 20 shopping bags

huddled in the corner of Trinity Church...

Bud the Fox straggling behind, in a crumpled raincoat, tie

askew, young, very young, his bleary face buried in a Wall

Street Journal, folded, 'subway style', as he crosses the

street against the light.

A car honks, swerving past.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Cavernous modern lobby. Bodies cramming into elevators. Bud,

stuffing the newspaper into his coat, jams in.

INT. ELEVATOR - MORNING

Blank faces stare ahead, each lost in private thoughts, Bud

again mouthing the thought, "stupid schmuck", his eyes

catching a blond executive who quickly flicks her eyes away.

Paranoia in the elevator. We quickly cut into private lives.

His eyes on the same blonde exec who looks away, self-

conscious about her legs. The elevator stops at a floor,

discards only one person. The doors close a little too slowly.

Catching the eyes of Bud Fox once again wandering to her.

Camera moving to Bud who looks away.

Camera moving slowly again over the eyes. The silence of

individual tension reigns over all.

As the elevator stops again to disgorge two people.

The elevator finally comes to a slow stop... They wait,

plead, beg, screech with the eyes.

The door at last opens. None of them acknowledging each

other, they all stampede out the door with an audible gasp

of release, a collective sign akin to making it to a urinal

after a punishing wait...

The elevator tension is over, but the killer grind continues.

INT. JACKSON, STEINEM INVESTMENT HOUSE - DAY

Credits continue to run. Bud moves past the functional

reception area, past CAROLYN, a cheerful young black girl.

He slips off his overcoat, flicks some lint off his Paul

Stuart $500 suit, and enters the main trading room.

Brokers mill by their desks, gulping coffee, scanning the

papers, the quotrons. The digital clock by the big board

counter clicks to 9:26 am -- four minutes until the market

opens. You can smell the hunger.

Bud takes a deep breath, tosses the newspaper away and

struts into the office -- fuck it -- it's a new day.

MOVING past DAN STEEPLES, a flush-faced old-timer, a blue

and white Yale tie, with a carnation in his lapel.

Past CHARLIE CUSHING, on the phone, a handsome chunk of man

with rugged good looks and Ivy League mannerisms.

Bud reaches his trading desk, whips open his briefcase and

pulls out a computer print-out of last night's homework.

His associate, MARVIN, a manicky wise-guy, swivels over his

chair from a nearby desk. He gives the charts a quick read.

LOU MANNHEIM, strolls in, a dignified looking older broker

in his late 60's, wearing an old brown brim hat with button

down white shirt, narrow tie, very much a picture from

another era... a kind humor in his eyes... but obviously

ailing in the legs and breath department.

The stentorian voice of OFFICE MANAGER HIERONYMUS LYNCH

booms over the intercom.

We see him peering from behind the glass partition in hit

office; tall, balding with a perpetual worried look on his

face.

Bud and Marvin roll their eyes. The digital clock flashes

9:30. The CREDITS close.

The room rises to a subtle but new energy level with the

clatter of the ticker, speakers, teletype machines,

newsprinters' Dow Jones and Reuters, phones ringing off the

hook. Brokers are shouting orders, running for tickets,

dodging each other; it's a controlled riot.

He looks up at the TICKER... stock quotes whizzing by.

He writes the order up.

A shot of CHARLIE CUSHING yawning as he half-listens to his

customer, resting the phone on his kneecaps.

THE CLOCK... It's 2.30 p.m. We hear the relentless clatter

of the board ticker, and the drone of disembodied voices,

blarihg market information out of squawk boxes.

Bud's desk is now cluttered with order tickets, literature,

crumpled notes, beverage cups and a half-eaten sandwich.

He's on the phone and from the look on his face, the caller

on the other end is breaking his balls. Marvin paces past,

making a dramatic phone pitch.

Bud waves Marvin away, answers his caller, trying to keep

cool, worried how as he sees Lynch, the office manager,

coming over.

As he looks up and winks at Lynch, standing over him.

Bud whispers, tensely. Lynch listens.

Lynce hangs up and glares at Bud.

Lynch walks off. Bud does some quick calculations in his head.

He takes out his wallet and loans Bud a hundred bucks.

Marvin points up at the clock. Bud looks up... it's 2:40.

Bud quickly composes himself. He picks up the phone, dialing

purposefully.

INT. GEKKO OFFICE - DAY

NATALIE, a classy attractive Englishwoman is on the phone

with Bud, somewhat amused by his manner. She is the personal

secretary to multimillionaire, Wall Street trader and

raider, Gordon Gekko. His windows look out on a panoramic

view of the city and East River.

As they're speaking, another SECRETARY leads two well-heeled

JAPANESE BUSINESSMEN past her desk. As she opens the door to

the inner office and ushers them inside, we catch a glimpse

of a figure, pacing back and forth, talking animatedly on

the phone by the huge corner window. HE IS GORDON GEKKO. We

hear a deafening ROAR as we:

EXT. MCGREGOR'S BAR AND GRILL - NEAR LAGUARDIA AIRPORT -

TWILIGHT

In the background, a 747 ascends into the night sky,

climbing over the roof tops of weathered brick tract houses.

Bud, coat collar pulled up against the wind, crosses the

street, entering a neighborhood bar. We see an old maroon

Honda behind him.

INT. MCGREGOR'S - TWILIGHT

Dimly-lit, noisy, blue-collar airline bar. Machinists and

mechanics still in their overalls at the bar, drinking,

watching ESPN FIGHT NIGHT, on TV. Bud searches the crowd. A

group of middle-aged men wave him over, BLUESTAR AIRLINES

insignias on the pockets... CHARLIE DENT, a rugged, chain-

smoking ex-Marine Sergeant, and DOMINICK AMATO, a big strong

Italian greet Buddy as he comes over.

As he signs an unemployment insurance form for one of his men.

Carl, inhaling his cigarette, grimaces formidably,

terminating the subject.

Bud sitting down next to him, pats him around the shoulder.

Dad, a sarcastic and gruff edge to him, makes a faint smile.

He has a genuine affection and pride in his somewhat

glamorous son.

Dominick and Charlie go off. A pause. Father and son sizing

each other up with a look.

Dad reaches into his pocket, looks at his cash. It hurts.

Dad shrugs, puts it away.

Another man comes over with a bandage around his head and a

compensation form for Carl to sign. ("Hey, chief").

He gives the signed form back to the injured man. (Carl:

"Okay, Frank")

They drink. Bud reflects a moment.

Bud's mind racing elsewhere.

INT. BUD'S APARTMENT - UPPER WEST SIDE - NIGHT

A cramped studio facing an air shaft with bars on the window.

Moving across to the sound of the radio alarm going off and

the glib tones of a rock D.J. announcing the Met's latest

streak ... The walls are papered with stock analyses and

graphs, print out pages strewn across the floor. No other

semblance of a personal life except clothes haphazardly

tossed, Barron's and Fortune magazines. A GIRL's back is all

we see, sleeping naked on the bed.

Close on Bud's IBM computer -- his appointment calendar. Bud

focusing on an underlined notation: G.G.'s BIRTHDAY.

Bud stares at the clock: 4 a.m. He picks up a prospectus for

a chemical company, starts reading.

EXT. GEKKO BUILDING - MORNING

Bud, crossing lower Broadway, enters a magnificent towering

glass structure.

INT. GORDON GEKKO PENTHOUSE OFFICES - MORNING

NATALIE, Gekko's British secretary, is completing shorthand

notes as the intercom buzzes. A logo for "GEKKO & CO. is

behind her.

INT. HALLWAY - MORNING

Bud, somewhat nervous, is led down an impressive hallway

hung with expensive modern art... past a huge Calder mobile

and a pool of some 15 traders on phones, quotron terminals

and keyboards... into Natalie's outer office.

Bud takes out an old crumpled Fortune magazine cover of

Gordon Gekko, entitled "Gekko the Great!"

She takes the gift and enters Gekko's office. Bud paces

nervously. Natalie re-appears, stern, but a note of

compromise in her voice.

INT. GEKKO OFFICES - OUTSIDE RECEPTION AREA - DAY

Bud on the courtesy phone, hangs up, looks nervously at his

watch. Almost 12. He's lost some two hours of business.

Natalie suddenly comes out, without a smile.

Bud brightens, pumping himself in the mirror, muttering.

He follows Natalie.

INT. GORDON GEKKO'S OFFICE (BUD'S POV) - DAY

Furnishings in hypermodern gray and black lacquer, Modern

Art ranging from black field paintings by Ad Reinhardt to

the smashed dishes of Julian Schnabel. Nautilus equipment,

hi-tech gadgets are in evidence, including a splendid Howard

Miller World Time Clock, and a world map...

Three of Gekko's people, young MBA's dressed for success,

are scattered about the room, on phones, calculators, coming

in and out.

GORDON GEKKO aka Gekko the Great as the media calls him,

dressed in a custom English suit, paces on the phone with

the restlessness of a caged tiger, a 50-foot extension cord

attached to his blinking 130 line silver-plated telephone.

On his ears is a headset.

He is carrying on overlapping conversations with a myriad of

bankers, partners and lawyers; pausing to issue commands to

his aides while keeping his eye on the stock prides spitting

across a bank of quotron monitors, carrying everything from

New York Exchanges to London, commodities, gold, and

currency values. A second Secretary and sometimes Natalie

exit and enter with various messages written on a piece of

paper, indicating a waiting party on the phone. Gekko often

shakes his head "no".

ALEX DE BETANCOURT, a tall handsome Frenchman, jots a note

and follows Gordon over to line 3. Gekko's dark intent eyes

fixing briefly on Bud who stands waiting in the corner. He

motions him to sit.

OLLIE, a gigantic 200 pound man wearing pink suspenders,

rises and walks to another phone, past Bud...

Bud's eyes on the framed "tombstones" from the Wall Street

Journal commemorating Gekko's successful deals; they hang

like scalps from the walls. Gekko's eyes drifting to Bud, a

friendly easy smile for a flick of an instant, he has

genuine charm in his manner and though ultrafast verbally,

projects calm and confidence at the center. A man who

obviously loves what he does, to some small degree is

flashing his stuff for the outsider.

Hangs up, eyes to Bud. His headset comes off.

Gekko notes the answer, wrapping the cuff of a state-of-the-

art, automatic blood pressure monitor around his arm and

starts pumping it up. His aides continue on the phones.

Bud opens his attache case and rifles out a handful of

briefs. Gekko noting the blood pressure reading and taking

the cuff off his arm. Ollie, the big trader, ambles back in,

says something to the third aide, a young intelligent-

looking woman SUSAN TURNER.

Gekko takes the call, cutting Bud off.

Gekko hanging up and buzzing an aide. Throws out an aside to

Bud.

Bud shifting, uncomfortable as Gekko finally swivels his

attention back to him.

Aiex, knowing the stock, sneers, shares a look with Gekko

who looks up at Bud with the first sign of interest.

As he opens a birthday card and feeds it into the SHREDDER

that sits next to his desk over the waste basket. The sound

it makes is soft and menacing. Buddy knows its fourth down

and long, Gekko's attention is shifting to the quotron. In

frustration, Bud blurts it out.

The camera moves on him now, sudden, more intense, in a

sense trapping him.

Gekko looks up, remotely interested.

Ollie comes back in, as excited as he ever will get under

his rolls of flesh, his voice deadpan.

Buddy thrusts a card into his hands. Gekko glances at it.

Bud stuffs his notes back into the briefcase, hoping for a

word of encouragement in the awkward silence.

He turns and heads out the door, still shaken by the

revelation he has made passing Susan who hurries in with a

dossier.

Gekko glances at it. As Bud leaves, he overhears:

INT. OUTSIDE GEKKO'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud walks glumly past Natalie, certain that he's blown it.

She's busy on the phone.

The phone call goes behind closed doors. Bud walks out,

dejected.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud comes in, distracted, punches into his quatron. Teldar

Paper comes up.

INSERT: TELDAR PAPER. The quotron. Bud's eyes. Thinking to buy.

Bud wipes it off the screen, his mind made up, dismissing

the temptation to buy.

Lynch, the manager, stalks past with some telexes.

Marvin gives Lynch the Italian salute, behind his back.

Grudgingly, Buddy flips open the massive New York phone book.

Their eyes briefly on DAN STEEPLES, red faced, desperately

trying to make a sale on the telephone, hangs up defeated.

Their eyes briefly on LOU MANNHEIM, in his private office,

sitting there slumped, thinking, smoking as he watches the

quotron.

The pool SECRETARY, GINA, calls out.

Bud rears up in his seat. A change. Marvin notices.

INT. GORDON GEKKO OFFICE - SIMULTANEOUS - DAY

Gekko talks into his speaker phone, gazing out the window.

INT. BUD'S CUBICLE - DAY

The camera tracks around and in on him climactically as the

Music Theme rises to ensnare him... We end close on Bud.

Dumbstruck.

He hangs up, stunned still, rises from his chair, unbuttons

his collar and feverishly starts writing the ticket.

EXT. COLUMBUS AVENUE - NIGHT

The upper West Side. The young, the rich and the restless

parade along the avenue, jamming the neighborhood restaurants

and bars. Bud glides along, feeling a part of the crowd now,

past a dreadlocked DERELICT swigging Thunderbird and

shouting obscenities, shaking a wooden African spear.

INT. RESTAURANT/BAR - NIGHT

Inside a glitzy neighborhood singles bar in which Bud stops,

everybody seems to be young and drinking margueritas. Bud

orders a beer, surveying the room like a veteran, overhearing

the conversation of a YOUNG TRADER to two other broker types.

He blathers on as Bud surveys the room, noticing an ELEGANT

BLONDE with a striking aloof beauty, very much the debutante

dream Grace Kelly type, so refined that you wonder what she

could possibly be doing out at night in public alone.

Bud summons his courage, catches his breath, makes his way

over... She sees him approach, obviously doesn't wish to

talk, eyes darting elsewhere like a nervous deer.

She looks at him, not quite sure. Is he serious or glib?

Maybe, just maybe she's his! His eyes show it as he hurries

back to the bar to order. As he gets the bartender's

attention, he turns and sees that she is joined by a MAN who

looks as if he stepped out of the pages of GQ. Together they

walk away. Stung, Bud watches as the woman of his dreams

disappears out the door.

EXT. NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT (RAIN)

Bud and a DATE he's obviously just picked up, are struggling

to be seen in a mass of people trying to get in the hottest

new club in Manhattan. Bud easing forward along the ropes to

a large BOUNCER who roughly pushes one of the bridge-and-

tunnel kids back across the rope.

Joe discreetly shows him $50 but they guy says: "No room!,"

humiliating him in front of his date. The bouncer shoving

Bud aside as Gordon Gekko and KATE, his wife, and ENTOURAGE

(ALEX, others) are shown through the ropes into the door.

Bud says something to Gordon but it gets lost in the confusion.

EXT. 79TH STREET & BROADWAY - EARLY DAY

People pouring into the subway on the way to work. Bud

rifles through the Financial Times he's just bought at the

newsstand and finds the article he was looking for: BLUESTAR

EXONERATED IN 1984 CRASH. He thrusts his fist in the air,

victoriously...bounds down the subway stairs.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud's on the quotron and the phone; the word's spread around

the office, he's landed Gekko and brokers drop by his desk

to get the lowdown.

Lou Mannheim and a Chinese LADY BROKER intersect.

Bud smiles back at her mischievously.

She hears him. As they go, Marvin swivels madly over in his

chair.

Everybody in the adjacent area turns and looks at Buddy like

in an E.F. Hutton commercial.

As he springs up to leave, Lynch the manager happens to be

strolling by. He nods pleasantly at Buddy.

INT. 21 CLUB - DAY

Dark mahagony wood, plush banquettes, a long oak bar. Bud

enters the main dining room in a relatively outre suit that

hangs on him embarrassingly as other businessmen in well-cut

suits move around him and a Maitre d' sniffs, then leads him

to where Gekko is parked, finishing up his lunch. A half

finished plate is removed to make way for Bud.

He's seated.

He looks at Gekko's bottled water.

The Maitre d' leaves. Gekko proudly pulls a tiny 3" by 6"

color television out of his pocket with a 2" diagonal

screen, flips it on to the Dow Jones avarages.

As he fishes a check out and drops it on Bud's plate.

Greeting TWO BANKERS who stop at the table as Bud picks up

the check, glances at it. His hand starts to tremble.

The check is for $500,000.

Gekko rising to leave, the Maitre d' hovering around.

Confused, Bud watches Gekko walk out of the room, pumping

extended hands left and right. He holds the cashiers check

up to his eyes, entranced by it, like a kid with his first

dollar...as the raw steak tartare with an egg on top is put

in front of him.

INT. BUD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Bud is at his computer when the door bell rings. He's not

expecting a visitor. When he opens the door he is knocked

for a loop.

A smashing looking LADY in a fitted Chanel suit, ropes of

chains, short tight skirt, beautiful long legs, is standing

there. Taking in the apartment, she hides her distaste.

EXT. BUD'S BUILDING - NIGHT

A stretch limo is parked in front, neighborhood WINOS

inspecting it. The CHAUFFEUR opens the back door, as Lisa

steps inside, Buddy in tow. The winos clap, howling at her.

INT. LIMOUSINE - NIGHT

Bud in the back seat next to Lisa, gazes out the black

tinted window as they drive away, then turns to her as she

gives him a bottle of Champagne to open.

She crosses her legs. Bud's eyes moving south. He pops the

cork. Lisa does a little blow, offers him.

She unzips his fly.

As she pulls up her skirt and climbs on top of Buddy.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - MORNING

Buddy, in an obviously new Mort Sills suit, struts past

Carolyn at the reception desk, in high spirits.

Bud on the phone, gazing at the ticker, concern in his eyes.

CLICKING of the tape ticker comes up over the music. He

looks at Marv.

Later. Research reports piling up. Bud's secretary trying to

get his attention. Bud's concern growing, as the green

fluorescent numbers spit across the board. CLICKER growing

louder. Pan to Marvin, hands cupped in prayer. To Dan

Steeples who closes his eyes and shakes his head.

Close. Bud watching the tape -- dizzying, hypnotic blur of

numbers. The roar of the clicker, drowning out the music...a

runaway freight train.

Bud's hands clamped over his eyes. The numbers stop. Noise

recedes. He opens his eyes, looks down at his desk, stacked

with reports and phone messages, as the pool secretary,

GINA, calls out. Marvin glumly coasts over in his chair.

Bud looks worried, at Marvin.

INT. WYATT CLUB SQUASH COURTS - DAY

Games in progress on the four courts, heavy hitting sounds.

Crossing to Gekko and Bud going at it. Bud is obviously the

worse for wear.

Meant paternally or sadistically, it's hard to tell. Gekko

hits the ball, a big fat shot. Bud returns, Gekka moves him

around the court, as if punishing him, the kid exhausted but

the ball's never quite out of reach -- till Bud finally

can't take it anymore and at the end of his breath, smashes

into the wall and collapses. Gekko laughs. Bud lying there

like a sad dog as Gekka hauls him up.

He exits the squash court.

INT. WYATT CLUB STEAM ROOM - DAY

Gekko and Bud sit alone, wreathed in steam.

Gekko's expression is frightening but cool.

INT. WYATT CLUB LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Buddy is slumped on a bench after taking a shower, drinking

a Coke. Gekko towelling himself down, getting dressed...naked

man constantly stopping by to greet him. Hi Fred, hi Barry,

how's the wife...still living in Larchmont? Yeah, still

commuting... y'ever do anything with that Aetna Gas

deal...nah...fishing for information, for a possible drink

or meeting but Gekko stonewalls them all...

He turns to go, Bud panicking. Is this the kissoff?

Gekko looks back, a beat, walks over to Bud, thrusts his

towel hard at his stomach.

INT. GEKKO LIMOUSINE - PARK AVENUE - DAY/TWILIGHT

Cruising up Park Avenue. A panel slides open next to the bar

with a portable computer on it. A television is turned on to

the evening news, a low hum of voices. Gekko punches into

the keyboard of the computer. A name appears an the screen...

LAWRENCE WILDMAN with curriculum vitae following; address,

phones, businesses...

Gekko shuts off the computer and slides it back into the

housing, his eyes taking in the low-volume news.

Bud downs the rest of his drink, upset by the darkening mood.

There's something very powerful and frighteninq about Gekko.

The car stopping in traffic. Horns honking.

THEIR POV -- a STREET CORNER. A richly dressed EXECUTIVE

stands at the curb next to the BUM with a shopping cart

filled with garbage.

The car pulls over. Gekko checks his watch, pulls out the

telephone.

EXT. PARK AVENUE - TWLIGHT

The CHAUFFEUR lets Bud out the door... Bud looks back at Gekko.

His eyes telling us he is weighed down by chains of guilt.

Gekko smiles, gazes at the twilight skyline, a sudden look

of contentment.

He shuts the door. Bud watches as the limo drives off.

EXT. FIFTH AVENUE APARTMENT - DAY

Bud, in a suit, waits next to a motorcycle across from one

of the most desirable addresses in New York.

The Doorman rushes to open the door under the canopy as a

tall strong man in his fifties emerges with a LAWYER TYPE

and a FEMALE EXECUTIVE. The man is SIR LAWRENCE WILDMAN and

his manner and gait convey the impression of an authoritative

presence with little patience as the chauffeur opens the

door and he slides into the back seat of the limo.

Buddy, astride Marv's Kawasaki 500, hits the streets after

him. The music through the following Montage should suggest

a chase brio.

EXT. WALL STREET BUILIDING - DAY

Bud shooting past the Trinity Church structure... Wildman

gets out of his limo with his people, strides into the lobby.

Bud quickly parks his bike on the sidewalk and rushes in

after them... not a second too late.

INT. LOBBY - WALL STREET BUILDING - DAY

Bud just manages squeeze in the elevator with Wildman and

crew -- and -- a couple of other early birds -- as the doors

close.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Bud eyeing Wildman, looks away as Wildman looks back at him,

an edge of defiance to him, why are you staring at me? Not

the world's most likeable personality.

INT. KAHN, SEIDELMAN - OUTER OFFICE - DAY

The doors open and Wildman and Co. step out into the

reception area of Kahn, Seidelman... The doors close and

Buddy continues upward.

EXT. WALL STREET BUILDING - LATER MORNING

The street now jammed with people hurrying to work. Buddy

paces the curb, reacting when Wildman walks out, saying

goodbye to the female executive and getting in the limo with

his lawyer... Buddy follows.

INT. LE CIRQUE RESTAURANT - PARK AVENUE - DAY

Formal French haute cuisine. Power lunches in progress. As

Wildman is seated with several well-dressed BANKERS at a

good table, Bud tries to wrangle a table (next to Mr.

Wildman on top of everything from a stiff looking Maitre d'

who shakes his head, barely concealing his attitude towards

Buddy's youth and general demeanor.

EXT. LE CIRQUE - DAY

Buddy waits outside, bored, as Wildman steps out, shakes

hands with the bankers... Bud making an entry into his

notebook like any good spy.

EXT. MIDTOWN TUNNEL QUEENS - DAY

Music rising to triumphant proportions. AERIAL SHOT of Limo

emerging from the tunnel and onto the Long Island Expressway.

CAMERA MOVES IN, picking up Buddy on the Kawasaki, darting

through lanes, staying several car lengths behind.

EXT. LAGUARDIA AIRPORT - DAY

The Limo winds its way along the perimeter road, past

commercial airliners. It takes the turnoff for Butler

Aviation. Buddy exits the ramp shortly after them.

EXT. BUTLER AVIATION AIRFIELD - DAY

A corporate saberliner jet, its engines running, idles at

the end of the taxiway. The limo pulls up along the tarmac

next to it and Wildman steps out, walking past a MECHANIC to

the stairs of the plane. A STEWARDESS waits for him.

EXT. RAMP - DAY

Bud watches, wondering what to do as the plane taxies down

the runway. He spots the flight mechanic and the answer

comes to him. He starts running towards the mechanic.

EXT. APRON - DAY

Bud races up to the mechanic.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - AIRLINES TERMINAL - DAY

INT. GEKKO LIMOUSINE - HEADING DOWN PARK AVENUE - DAY

Alex and Susan are with him. Gekko playing the computer,

eyes lighting up on the phone.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - DAY

Bud slapping his face, realizing.

INT. GEKKO LIMO - DAY

Gordon already has the closing figures punched up on his

quotron. Calls his shot.

He hangs up, looks at Alex and Susan.

INT. BLUESTAR MAINTENANCE HANGAR - SAME DAY

A large company banner hangs from the rafters: "Bluestar -

The Vision Goes On." Buddy's father, Carl, Charley Dent and

Dominick Amato are changing the generator on a 727. A welder

is repairing a wing seam. Buddy shouting to his Dad over the

noise.

They wave back, Carl climbing down a maintenance stand...

lights up a cigarette.

Bud takes out his wallet, smiles, peels out 10 $100 bills.

He sticks the cash in his hand.

Buddy forces the money into his hand.

Touched, his father shakes his head and smiles. He takes it.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud silent, an intent look on his face, gazing up at the

digital clock... as it flicks to 9:30... post time.

Tickers, squawk boxes and shouting erupt.

Bud calls in his order: "10,000 AN STL 46... and let me know

how the options are opening."

Music skips along in a revolving madcap fashion.

INT. FLOOR OF AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE - DAY

A CLERK hands the buy order to the FLOOR MANAGER. He starts

writing a ticket as we pull back:

INT. AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE - DAY

Company floor traders are jammed into a narrow booth,

frantically takinq orders over phones and telex machines.

The FLOOR MANAGER gives the ticket to a RUNNER, a young man

wearing worn sneakers, who dashes off. We follow him across

the scruffy Exchange Floor, as he weaves through a crush of

traders crammed around horseshoe-shaped kiosks, cathode-ray

tubes slung above them, displaying the latest prices in

bright, green letters and numbers. Intermittent shrieks and

howls, calls to buy and sell, issue from the far reaches of

the labyrinthian room.

As in the final leg of a relay race, the RUNNER hands the

ticket off to a COMPANY TRADER, who is buying and selling at

the post where Anacott Steel is traded. The TRADER checks

the ticket and turns to the SPECIALIST, executing the order.

The camera moves up as the Anacott Steel (AN STL) quote

flashes across the broad tape -- as the price ticks up from

46 to 46 1/4.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud paces nervously at his desk, looking at his quotron. AN

STL appears on the screen, now up to 47. Bud puts in another

order.

INT. STOCK EXCHANGE FLOOR - DAY

The SAME RUNNER races over, handing Bud's next TICKET to the

COMPANY TRADER.

Tilt up to the broad tape.

As ANACOTT STEEL, AN STL, rises to 48 1/8.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

On Bud, eating a sandwich, eyes glued to the ticker. AN STL

has climbed to 48 3/4. Marv stalks by, shouting on the phone.

Bud looks away from the ticker, pretending to read a report.

When Marv disappears, Bud hastily calls in at 49.

INT. STOCK EXCHANGE FLOOR - DAY

On the tired RUNNER dodging through the crowd, and over to

the TRADER handing him a new ticket.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Close on the OFFICE TICKER -- as Anacott Steel hits 50.

Buddy jumps up from his chair, and animatedly crosses to

Marv who is on the phone, cold calling.

Bud presses down on the phone button, cutting him off.

Marv looks at Joe and sees a look on his face that he's

never seen before.

Bud leaves, Marv re-dials.

Lou Mannheim hangs up the phone, a troubled look. Bud leans

into his office.

Charlie Cushing's on the phone.

Dan Steeples's talking confidentially on the phone.

Buddy dialing the phone number that Gekko gave him. He

speaks into the receiver, in a hushed voice.

INT. WALL STREET JOURNAL OFFICE - DAY

The REPORTER on the other end of the phone hangs up. He

rises from his desk, strides across the busy news floor,

over to an ASSOCIATE.

EXT. GEKKO BEACH HOUSE - BRIDGEHAMPTON - TWILIGHT

Wind and waves. Gekko's modern, Sante Fe structure house

sits on a dune overlooking the grey Atlantic.

INT. GEKKO LIVING ROOM - DAY

Immense slanted ceilings, a vast clean modern space filled

with dozens of contemporary art objects, junk sculptures,

floor to ceiling windows radiating light, that look out on a

cantilevered deck and pool - and the ocean beyond.

Gekko slumps down on a sofa, exhausted, watching one of

several news reports he master-controls with a remote.

During this, RUDY, Gordon's 3 year-old son, drives in in the

latest electronic baby toy -- a Porsche-bodied electric car.

Gekko hangs up, checks out a Reuters quotron positioned nearby.

The kid jumps out of the car and scoots into his father's lap.

Gordon absently tossles Rudy's hair, his eyes glued to the

TV. The kid senses it, jumps back off his lap and into the car.

Kate, Gordon's beautiful, raven-haired wife, homemaker and

antiquer, enters with the bovine-eyed AU PAIR GIRL from

France... just at Rudy drives his car into a wall where it

stalls, engines grinding.

Kate, upset with the noise, tries to pull her son nicely out

of the car.

The Korean HOUSEBOY coming in.

Meanwhile, the kid has no intention of going anywhere and

plants his feet and emits the loudest shrieking this side of

the fat lady in the opera.

Handing the bawling, writhing mass of anger to Nicole as if

it were laundry she doesn't want to touch... Nicole takes

him screaming out of the room... Gordon trying to concentrate

on the TV.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Papers and charts are strewn around, trailing down to a box

of take-out pizza and empty beer bottles. Bud has stayed late.

EXT. GEKKO'S BEACH HOUSE - BRIDGEHAMPTON - NIGHT

Bud's P.O.V. as he pulls up to an austere, ultra-

sophisticated monolith of glass and wood dominating a

stretch of dune overlooking the Atlantic's angry surf.

Several Jags, state of the art Jeeps and a Rolls are drawn

up outside.

Bud, getting out of his faded Honda, goes up the stairs to

the door. He rings several times.

A BLACK BUTLER opens it and looks at Buddy somewhat warily.

Laughter and voices are heard from inside.

Without thinking he closes the door in Joe's face. He stands

there, harrassed peering around through a window on the lawn.

A small gathering of friends in progress around a glowing

fireplace. The butler waves him in from the door.

INT. GEKKO ALCOVE - NIGHT

Bud enters, as Gekko approaches.  He seems annoyed to be

disturbed at his country home.

About to go when his wife, Kate Gekko, comes over. A pretty

dark-haired woman.

They exchange pleasantries.

Gekko doesn't seem to like the idea, but...

to Gekko.

INT. GEKKO LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

They cross to the main living room.

Bud looking wide-eyed at the beautiful "Calvados" BLONDE

he's been dreaming of for weeks... she's with Mr. GQ and

doesn't recognize Bud, nods back, they all nod back,

naturally suspicious of the young outsider... Rudy's TOY

ROBOT wheels  around the floor with a drink on its tray,

talking computer talk...

Bud plucks a glass of wine from the robot's tray and plunks

himself down on a sofa, overhearing the conversation between

Muffie Livingston and Candice Rogers.

The Korean houseboy has come over to Gekko.

Bud tightens, so does the whole room hearing the name of the

moment. Gekko smiles at Buddy.

He goes to the alcove to take the call.

Bud noticing the stain, starts wiping it.

INT. GEKKO ALCOVE - NIGHT (RAIN)

INT. GEKKO LIVINGROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)

The blonde, DARIEN TAYLOR, is examining a modern sculpture

as Buddy comes over with two Calvados.

Bud indicates the painting in front of them -- a buffalo

skull in the desert by Georgia O'Keefe.

Bud waits, staring suddenly and deeply into her eyes.

They both laugh.

Her date, Mr. GQ, SAMMY RUSPOLI intersects with Kate. A

cultivated European air.

Kate noticing the doorbell ringing.

Sam muttering something in Darien's ear of an intimate

nature. She glides away with him.

An ironic promise in her eyes... Bud ecstatic inside...

looks over, goes to the foyer...

INT. GEKKO ALCOVE - NIGHT (RAIN)

SIR LARRY WILDMAN walks in, his country gentleman clothing

somewhat softening his imposing figure but not the cultured

rapacious eagle's face. With him a lawyer.

As Gordon intersects, casually tasting a spot of the dinner.

Pleasantries. Bud nervously shakes hands, sensing Wildman

might recognize him from being tailed in the elevator. There

indeed is a moment but Wildman's attention blurs as...

INT. GEKKO DEN - NIGHT (RAIN)

Gordon enters a den lined with old books hunting prints;  he

proudly picks up something from his gun collection.

A strong hint of the cockney working class east and London

boy whiffing through his speech and manner. The "mate" is

tough and to the point but not insulting...

Bud watching this drama unfold. Gekko is about to blow,

controls it.

Bud in the spotlight. The eyes all shift to him -- his

moment. After an initial panic, he's cool as a cucumber --

and ruthless as his mentor.

His eyes to Wildman who looks at him, cold, icy mean.

Bud looking sharply as Gekko's eyes flare with hot white anger.

He rises and exits.

Gekko stops at the door, a beat.

He walks out with the silent lawyer. Past Gekko who watches.

"Ta Ta".

INT. BUD'S APARTMENT - PRE-DAWN

Exhausted from the drive back, Bud takes off his sweater and

tie and collapses onto the bed, closing his eyes. The phone

rings. With a start he wakes and answers it.

EXT. GEKKO'S BEACH HOUSE - DAWN

The sky is still dark, the first rays of light coming up

over the ocean. Gekko, a lonely figure in a windbreaker,

restlessly prowls the edge of the beach, waves crashing

around him. He's been up all night and has an exhausted,

driven look as he whispers over the wind into the cellular

phone...

He lets the phone drop to his side, staring glazed-eyed at

the ocean.

INT. ROGER BARNES' OFFICE - EARLY EVENING

A SECRETARY leads Bud into the plush, private office of a

cocky young lawyer, ROGER BARNES, about tho same age as Bud,

his his feet up on the desk, sleepily waving to Buddy to

park his ass... The pictures an his walls and desk indicate

a rich family.

He obviously has thought about it before. Bud smiles back,

nonchalant.

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE ROGER BARNES' OFFICE - EVENING

They walk out past the CLEANING CREWS coming in for the

evening, drones of the vacuum cleaners...

Bud looks - his POV... A CLEANING WOMAN as she pulls the

vacuum cleaner into one of the senior partners offices, the

desk crammed with proposals, Bud is lost in thought.

EXT. BARNES' OFFICE BUILDING - NIGHT

Bud comes out of the building and starts walking away. As he

passes the freight entrance, Bud abruptly notices a van

marked MARSALA MAINTENENCE COMPANY. He looks back, thinks

for a moment: a look in his eyes.

EXT. LONG ISLAND CITY - LIGHT INDUSTRIAL PARK - DAY

Bud walks past a row of small warehouses and enters one.

INT. MARSALA MAINTENANCE OFFICE AND GARAGE SERVICE - DAY

He steps into a shabby reception area. A chain-smoking OLD

LADY looks up from the switch-board.

INT. BACK OFFICE - DAY

The owner, a GREEK with bushy mustache and hardened face,

sits at his desk eating lunch, eyeing Bud suspiciously.

Panos puts down his sandwich, measuring Bud.

Bud smiles, ready with his spiel.

An elevator opens. A body steps out. A set of keys. Boom up

past a clipboard and pen to a shirt pocket with MARSALA

MAINTENANCE written on it, up to Bud dressed in janitorial

clothing.

We move with him to the CREW SUPERVISOR who introduces THREE

CLEANING WOMEN who nervously absorb Bud, worried for their

jobs.

Bud strolls from office to office, looking official,

overseeing his crew, making notations on a checklist.

Bud slips into the Senior Partners' office, thumbs through a

calendar on the desk. Sees the list of people, moves to the

computer, punches the client's name in. The code number

comes up.

Bud nods to a SECURITY GUARD down the hall and enters the

file room where he looks at the Cleaning Lady and points to

his watch. As she exits, he scrambles nervously through the

files -- finds the code number -- then anxiously flips the

pages to the critical tender offer document -- with the

target name -- INVESTMENT IN RORKER ELECTRONICS CORP. It's

stamped "DRAFT" across the page. His face lights up. The

secret to the kingdom. He puts it back, exits.

INT. GEKKO'S OFFICE - DAY

Gekko on the phone, smiling.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - DAY

Bud, obviously exhausted from his day and night roles, is

telling him something on the phone.

INT. SECOND LAW FIRM - NIGHT

Bud furtively xeroxes a document on a small hand-carried

copy machine in his pocket or photographs it if it is too

large.

INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

Bud and Alex, Gekko's assistant, having lunch. Alex gives

him the briefcase he's carrying. Pan from Alex to Bud back

to discover Darien in the next scene.

INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

Bud dines with Darien, small talk, intimate looks.

INT. THIRD LAW FIRM - NIGHT

Bud is in an office, eyes panning the shelves.

Bud's head jerks around. A young female PARALEGAL is burning

the midnight oil. She looks at him from behind a stack of

briefs.

EXT. BRIDGEHAMPTON BEACH - DAY

Gekko, Kate, Bud, Darien and A FIFTH PERSON roar over the

dunes, each in their own dune buggy, laughing and hollering

at one another...

Buddy driving right up precariously close on Darien, who

screams... Buddy flips over his vehicle... comes up

laughing... we sense he is getting wilder now...

EXT. HORSE FARM - BRIDGEHAMPTON - DAY

Darien rides expertly. A beautiful, immaculately-groomed

stallion is being shown to Gekko by the trainer.

Bud is sipping wine as he looks on with Kate.

Darien rides in, smiling to Bud.

He laughs, a little sloppy.

EXT. OCEAN - DAY

Darien swims in the ocean, long looping athletic strokes.

EXT. POOL AND PATIO - GEKKO'S BRIDGEHAMPTON HOUSE - DAY

They're finishing lunch by the pool framed by a lush flower

garden where Kate and son Rudy play. HAROLD SALT, Gekko's

chief lawyer, thick glasses, smart eyes and bags of worry

that could only come from watching other people's money,

looks very city-like in his clothing, examining his

paperwork before passing it to Bud, who is the picture of

relaxation.

Buddy looks, then up to Gekko, who smiles, casual.

Bud smiles, signs.

As Kate drifts over with Rudy and the French au pair GIRL,

NICOLE.

Rudy either says "No!" or "Bonjour Monsieur Bud!' depending

on the mood of the kid. Gordon sweeping him up and playing

with him. The kid squeals with glee.

As Rudy smashes the strawberries around his face and resists

going. "No! No!" Kate exasperated gives the child to Nicole.

Nicole's "Oui, Madame" is lost in the wrestling match she

goes through to drag him out screaming. Kate walking off.

Harold gives Buddy another piece of paper...

EXT. BEACHFRONT - DAY

The camera glides off some FISHERMEN hauling their catch off

their beached boat to Darien who comes tromping out of the

surf, water glistening off her lean athletic body. Bud

stands before her, cool seductive eyes, holding out a towel.

She steps up to him and smiles inscrutably. Takes the towel

from him, drying herself, instead.

Looks at her, stifles his thought.

She looks at him, tosses the towel over her shoulder and

starts back toward the house. Buddy watches her go.

INT. HOTEL BALLROOM - DAY

The annual Teldar Paper stockholders' meeting is in session:

400 stockholders are there -- many middle aged and older,

one bag lady. Cromwell sits on an elevated platform at the

front of the room surrounded by an army of bulky EXECUTIVES,

none of them weighing less than 200 pounds, ACCOUNTANTS and

LAWYERS. Gekko in contrast seems like Robin Hood seated with

Alex, Harold, Bud and the other stockholders. Cromwell is

delivering his prepared attack on Gekko in a highly

sarcastic, gruff manner.

Gekko seething, jumps up.

Gekko is urged to sit down by his people but we hear various

catcalls, "Let the man speak!" "Sit down, Gekko!"

Gekko is now at floor level with a microphone. He's calmer,

makes his pitch to the stockholders, looking up at the

management.

Cromwell is pissed.

Much applause as he sits. Now a standing ovation; shouts of

approval. Cromwell knows he has lost the day, tries to

continue the meeting by calling for "order".

Bud watches, impressed.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

BROKERS mill at their desks quietly. Bud enters, notices

immediately the uneasy silence. His eyes go to Lynch's

office... across the windows, he's talking to a very somber

Dan Steeples.

Bud's soft "no" matched by that second, tighter look. His

POV -- closer on the glass... Dan Steeples pleading for his

job... we know the things he's saying, we've heard them

before... just one more chance, Mr. Lynch... Lynch shaking

his head...

Dan Steeples steps out of the office, obviously close to

tears but trying to maintain face... Buddy's eyes dart away,

not wanting to deal with it. Dan Steeples walks by his as

Lynch, on the loudspeaker, starts his morning announcements.

As Dan Rickey passes him during this, Bud catches a glimpse

of the older man's eyes. Dan tries to look brave. Heads

turning to Bud with awe and envy...

Bud moving toward Lynch, past Lou Mannheim.

Bud passes Charlie Cushing, yawning on the phone as usual.

Chuck laughs, Bud's "in" now. Lynch indicates for Bud to

follow him into an outer glass-enclosed office.

INT. BUD'S NEW OFFICE - DAY

Neatly furnished, with a window overlooking Wall Street, and

attractive CHINESE SECRETARY filing papers into a cabinet.

She smiles at Bud, who heaves a sigh of relief, noticing his

name plate on the desk.

He winks and leaves. Charlie Cushing comes in, Marv sticks

his head in the doorway, a grudging smile.

INT. CONDOMINIUM APARTMENT - UPPER EAST SIDE - DAY

A splendid four-room thirtieth floor aerie overlooking

Central Park. SYLVIE DRIMMER, anchored down with jewelry and

a large fur purse, shows Bud around.

Bud looks around. The city at his feet. Lost in thought.

Sylvie has to call him out of it: "honey? -- The meter's

running. Anybody home?"

Sylvie tries to play it cool, her expression conveying a

somewhat stunned look at the speed and certainty of the

response.

Looking it over, proud.

INTERIOR DECORATING MONTAGE

The music is geared to speed, money, triumph and just plain

material fun.

INT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY/NIGHT

In its first stage, Darien supervising. It's expanse of

white walls devoid of mouldings, a blank plaster canvas. The

city views are great, the apartment identical to hundreds of

other cookie cutter condos. Several young artists are

working on a neo-classical mural on the long side of the

living room. They are colorfully dressed, listening to a

TALKING HEADS tape while they work. A carpenter who looks

like a member of Duran Duran is installing a pair of old

columns from Urban Archaeology on either side of the

entrance to the living room while another fits a brass sink

into an antique sideboard which has been turned into a bar.

INT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY/NIGHT

INTERIOR DECORATING MONTAGE - SECOND STAGE

Living room furniture arrives. A fantail shrimp chaise from

Art Furniture's "Sushi Collection" arrives, along with an

enormous sofa encased in an ecru linen slipcover made

deliberately baggy and tied on with rows of self bows on

each end, several faux Etruscan pots wired up as lamps, a

poured concrete coffee table that looks like it came from

Pompeii, and a hand-painted floor cloth instead of a rug for

the bleached floor with the stencilled border... Darien

sitting in a fantastical adirondack chair made from gnarled

branches, amused by Bud's reactions to the furniture.

THIRD STAGE. The kitchen has the latest compact computer

dishwasher and compact microwave, garbage compactor, and

sinks with infrared controls... A brief food montage gives

us a sense of the modernist approach to food and its

preparation:

1) Darien hones the knives on the electric knife sharpener as

2) Bud uses a stainless steel Cape Cod oyster opener to work

on two dozen oysters...

3) at the same time working on the automatic vinaigrette

mixer, the phone ringing to the tune of Mozart's "Jupiter"...

4) As he starts his pasta sauce flame an his O'Reilly fat-

free grill with a flexible neck fire starter...

5) A freshly heated roll pops out of a hanging space-saving

toaster, as Darien works the electric pasta maker while

melting the frozen ice cream cartons in the microwave.

6) Bud manages to sneak a kiss an her lips humming the bars

from Verdi's "Rigoletto" as he works the piece de la

resistance--the automatic sushi maker...

7) Dinner is finally served on a demolished dinner table.

Red wine, pasta, sushi...it looks perfect, lit by

candlelight, the view of the city below.

FOURTH STAGE - INT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY

Bud goes over a stack of bills with something approaching

concern as the gothic oak refectory table which seats 20 is

carried in, followed by a Jean Michel Basquiat featuring a

skull on a rough board. Darien instructs the movers to place

an important pair of satinwood Art Deco armchairs upholstered

in buttery suede (last Saturday's auction purchase for

$20,000) at either end of the titanic sofa. No vestige is

left of the cookie cutter space we first saw. Walls have

been removed, mouldings and architectural found objects

added, imitation rare woods, marbles and frescos have been

created from nothing by the magic hands of the tromp l'oeil

crew. The point is, decorating can transform.

INT. CONDO - NIGHT

The look of the place is evocative of ancient times, yet

sumptuous. Darien and Bud sink into the bales of down in the

sofa and are dwarfed. She rests her head on a hand stencilled

velvet Venetian throw pillow, looking like a Pre-Raphaelite

madonna. A terracotta pot with a spray of white phaleonopsis

graces the coffee table. As the sun sets over the canyons of

highrises, Bud walks around his new home totally in awe.

This apartment, perfect in its restrained taste with all the

"correct" flowers and objects, has nothing to do with him.

Perhaps he can understand the state-of-the-art kitchen, the

computerized telephone, stereo and light system, but he

needs a set of instructions just to be able to switch on

David Letterman.

This apartment is Darien's fantasy, and Bud is merely the

incidental client who paid for it. Most importantly to her,

it is ready to be photographed by House and Garden.

As he nuzzles her neck, she feels threatened, stops.

As the kiss grows, his hands move into her nether regions.

She looks at him, sober.

INT. BUD'S CONDO - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Bud making love to Darien. Camara closing on them.

Her face -- from his point of view. Her smile.

His face -- looking down. Covered with sweat and passion.

EXT. BUD'S CONDO - TERRACE - NIGHT

Bud walks out alone in his blue bathrobe on his parapet

overlooking Central Park. The wind stirs his hair. The East

and West sides of the park wrap the city in a diamond

necklace of brilliant light.

Bud stares down at the world. He has it all now. The money.

The girl. The magic palace apartment. What more is there?

Something...because Bud suddenly throws a wrenching

dislocated look into himself that makes us wonder as he

brushes his hand across his face and mutters to himself.

There is no ready answer. As he finally turns and goes back

inside and closes the door.

INT. BUD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Darien lies curled in the bed, eyes open, looking at him.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH - SOUTH STREET SEAPORT - TWILIGHT

Cocktail hour in the background, yuppies trying to score for

the weekend. Bud on the phone, strained look transforming to

a bright, upbeat personality as the phone is answered.

EXT. CABIN - ASPEN COLORADO - DAY

A small cabin in the mountains.

INT. CABIN - ASPEN COLORADO - DAY

Whole earth furnishings. DIXON, a long-haired ski bum

dropout listens skeptically.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH - SOUTH STREET SEAPORT - TWILIGHT

INT. ROGER BARNES' OFFICE - DAY

Roger listens on the phone.

A look on his face. As if he knows he's making a fatal mistake.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Marv waves across the glass partition and knocks. But Bud

waves him off, closing the blinds.

Marv now walks it, exasperated.

As he tries to peak at Bud's quotron screen, but Bud flicks

it off, pissed.

Marvin abruptly walks out, "asshole!". Bud books the order

for Morning Star Corp -- MSC -- 50,000 June options.

INT. AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE - LATER THAT DAY

The COMPANY FLOOR MANAGER gets Bud's order, hands a ticket

to a RUNNER who dashes off across the exchange floor, and

over to a TRADER who starts to execute the order.

CLOSE on the broad tape. As Bud's large buy order flickers

across it -- MSC -- 50,000 June options.

INT. AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE - S.E.C. OPTIONS WATCH OFFICE -

DAY

A CLERK sits before a computer routinely tracking all of the

exchange floor trading. He runs a check on a transaction.

Computer Screen -- The same numbers and letters are seen

that just flickered across the broad tape... Bud's buy.

The clerk swivels his chair to a second computer and punches

up data. A MAN appears behind him, leaning over his

shoulder, and wears an ID BADGE. The clerk vacates his seat

to the man with the badge, who now takes over.

INT. BUD'S CONDO - NIGHT

Bud is in silk boxers on the phone, number crunching on the

computer, foot pounding to a music beat on the stereo, while

his telex spews out overnight currency data.

Darien in the background lies in bed in panties reading Vogue.

He hangs up, back to the computer a growing look of

excitement and revelation in his eyes.

On the computer screen we see a break up Of Bluestar

Airlines -- its assets and liabilities.

Bud hits the command key, printing it out. He's exuberant.

Bud dances over to the bed turning the stereo down on his way.

Bud grabs a bottle of Ferrier off the night table and drinks.

INT. GEKKO'S PRIVATE PLANE (GULFSTREAM - 4) - DAY

A salon interior. Gekko on a couch reading, with eyeglasses,

a stack of financial reports. Alex is on the phone, Susan,

and others accompanying the caravan on a business trip. Bud

is excited.

Gekko, the poker player, hasn't seen enough cards.

INT. BUD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Bud, in high gear, all smiles, expensive Armani suit, opens

the door. His father stands before him, looking like a man

on his way to the dentist.

Wide-eyed, Carl follows Bud through the foyer, taking in the

furnishings, paintings, antiques.

Halfway won over Carl enters the living room where Darien

has set up a table with miniature gourmet pizza, etc. The

atmosphere is strained, the camps separated. Gekko stands by

the bar, conferring with his lawyer, Harold Salt. Darien

walks over to the couch with drinks for the Ixtax Union

Reps: DUNCAN WILMORE, ALPA Leader, a rugged silver-haired

uniformed pilot; TONI CARPENTER, AFA Rep, hard looking,

40ish flight attendant.

They exchange nods.

Carl stares at Gekko, sizing him up.

Carl looks to his fellow union representatives, then to Gekko.

Salt gathers his jacket to leave, as Gekko and Carl eye one

another, tentatively.

The food is half consumed. Gekko addresses the union leaders.

His joke breaks the ice; they laugh, except for Carl.

We hear a loud crunching sound as Bud's father bites into a

roll, glaring at Gekko.

Carl drops his fork on the plate. Gekko goes on.

Toni Carpenter and Duncan Wilmore exchange questionable looks.

Carpenter and Wilmore react with surprise, it's obvious they

weren't expecting the profit sharing part. Bud smiles at

Darien and looks to his father, who examines a sushi roll

before putting it back.

Darien and Carl turn to Bud, who puts down his wine glass.

The men are visibly shaken by Bud's determination.

Gekko looks to Carl Fox who, putting down knife and fork,

breaks his silence.

Bud tenses, looking at his father. Gekko ignores the

innuendo and replies softly.

Carl throws down his napkin, rises from the chair, looks at

the others.

There is frozen silence at the table.

Carl turns and leaves. Bud glances at Gekko, reading his

piercing look. He hurries after his father.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Bud catches up to Carl, waiting for the elevator, hammering

him.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Carl steps into the elevator, Bud follows.

INT. BUILDING LOBBY - NIGHT

Bud and Carl exit the elevator and head across the luxury

lobby.

They head through the doors, out onto the street.

EXT. BUILDING - NIGHT

Bud following Carl.

He grabs Carl by the arm, stopping him.

Bud lets go of Carl's arm. Carl looks at his son, seeing the

desperation. Sadness and confusion take hold of him.

He walks away. Bud watches him go, knows he has won.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud, increasingly frazzled and determined, dark circles

under his eyes paces with the phone...

INT. DIXON'S CABIN - ASPEN COLORADO - DAY

Dixon, the rich man's son and ski bum, is yelling on the

other end of the line.

He hangs up, a worried expression, Marv entering to break

his concentration.

Marv slams the door on his way...

EXT. FEDERAL BUILDING - DOWNTOWN NEW YORK - DAY

Long shot of the towering stone structure. A tall angular

figure crosses through the glass doors with a bulky folder

under his arm...

INT. LOBBY - DAY

The man flashes his ID to a SECURITY GUARD who buzzes him

through the gate... He walks towards us and we see he is the

familiar tall, baby-faced INVESTIGATOR from the S.E.C.

Options Watch Office... he gets in an elevator.

INT. S.E.C. INVESTIGATION OFFICES - DAY

He walks into the office of a CHIEF INVESTIGATOR. A balding

sharp-featured man in a drab suit with bags of hard work

under his eyes looks up as the young investigator places the

large file in front of him.

INT. ROGER BARNES' OFFICE - DAY

Bud enters, preoccupied. Barnes is nervous.

A young lawyer pops his head in the room.

As they walk out.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Smoky, coffee cups and food. THREE LAWYERS, TWO INVESTMENT

BANKERS, THREE COMMERCIAL BANKERS, sleeves rolled up, ties

askew. A blackboard with Bluestar's assets diagrammed. A

combat mood in the room. Bud walking in, feels vaguely

worried, something is not quite right.

They nod vaguely respectful but Bud's obviously a figure

head to them, takes a seat off to the side. The bull-like

INVESTMENT BANKER, Vietnam vet, in shirt and suspenders, is

on the attack against the stuffier Commercial Bankers.

Bud freezes where he sits...it all comes crashing down in a

milli-second on that word "liquidate" -- shock now spreading

on Bud's face...

Bud sits there numbly, a sickening feeling taking hold of

him as the camera and music track and trap him tighter and

tighter. The lawyers' voices distorting in the background.

INT. RECEPTION AREA - GEKKO'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud walks intently past the receptionist and down the long

white marble hall.

INT. NATALIE'S DESK - DAY

Natalie is on the phone. Bud marches past her desk.

He ignores her and throws open Gekko's door.

INT. GEKKO'S OFFICE - DAY

Gekko is talking with the LAWYERS and BANKERS from the

Bluestar deal, as Bud barges in.

Gekko stares at him with piercing eyes.

The lawyers and bankers get up and discreetly leave the room.

Gekko waits for them to go, turns back to Bud.

Gekko is taken by surprise.

As he puts his arm around Bud, leading him to the door.

At the door, a look of unmistakable power...and danger.

He walks out the door, the misery he is in washing his brow.

As he crosses back to the coffee table and punches up a

phone number.

EXT. GEKKO OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Bud walks out, heading up the street, absent amid the

scurrying mid-day hordes tearing up the street for the loot

inside.

EXT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY

Darien approaches, carrying groceries, enters the building.

INT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY

Bud is slumped on the couch, a spent bottle of tequila in

front of him. Outside the twilight is quickening into night,

shadows, scurrying across the unlit room.... for the first

time we see him sucking on a cigarette.

Darien opens the door and freezes, surveying the living room.

A broken vase on the carpet, a curtain ripped off a window,

a painting upended, a chair overturned, selected but not

frenzied damage...

She puts down the grocery bags, frightened.

Darien registering this, is picking up pieces of the broken

vase.

She stops, lights a cigarette, growing concern.

She sighs...comes over, tries to shake some sense into him!

Darien moves out from his approximate circle, wrestling with

what she wants to say...until she turns and says it.

Bud is stunned...and hurt.

She collects her things and walks to the door.

Bud steps across to her in a rage.

She opens the door saddened.

She does. Bud stares at the closed door, mute, numb, totally

devastated.... the loss is not just Darien, it is total...

He looks at his face in the reflection of a wall mirror...

INT. BUD'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - DAY

Waiting for the elevator. Darien also looks at herself a

beat in the hall mirror. She's crying. Then she steels

herself and enters the elevator.

INT. BUD'S CONDO - DAY

The same realtor, SYLVIe DRIMMER, who sold him the place, is

back. The phone is ringing, unanswered...

He's in his socks, unshaven, smoking, he looks like he's

been on a bender for the weekend. The phone stops ringing.

He turns and walks into the bedroom, slamming the door

behind him.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud walks in, a different, more serious look in his eye,

purposeful. Past CAROLYN and JANET at the outer desk. They

stop what they're doing and look up at him surprised.

He notices her face, something's wrong.

Bud weaving fast through traffic.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Bud races past the nurses' desks and down the hallway.

EXT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Bud's MOTHER is outside with Dominick Amato and another

neighbor just visiting, bringing candies.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

The blinds are drawn. His Dad lies there, tubes down his

nose, hooked up to an IV unit and monitors. Bud comes over.

Carl, glassy-eyed, significantly frailer, nods to him. It's

obvious that more damage was done than Bud expected. Mom

comes into the room with him, stands there.

Carl, smiles weakly, on pain killers. Bud pulls out a

cigarette. He fumbles with it before putting it away, trying

to keep a gruff tone between them.

The words seem to come flowing out of Bud as Carl's eyes

fill with tears.

Carl stares at him, beginning to understand.

Carl reacts violently in his eyes but Bud soothes him...in

dead earnest, trying to be deliberate and clear in his meaning.

Carl's eyes.

INT. AUCTION ROOM - DAY

Gekko and Darien are seated together in the back row. Darien

looks serious and distracted in spite of all the excitement

going on around her. It is the big spring Impressionist sale

and all the major players, or their representatives are here.

Gekko is bidding.

He is on a roll, electric. As the price mounts and surpasses

the two million dollar mark, Gekko rises and walks down the

side aisle to the front, never taking his eyes away from the

auctioneer. He stands agressively, arms akimbo, in a nose to

nose confrontation.

EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF AUCTION HOUSE - DAY

They walk the sunny streets, a jubilant Gekko, savoring his

triumph, grabs Darien's arm.

He pats her on the back in a preprietary fashion.

She moves closed and takes Gordon's hand.

Darien's eyes cloud over...the look of a scared child being

banished by her father. Then...

She walks away.

INT. MCGREGOR'S BAR - QUEENS - DAY

Bud is seated at a corner table with the BLUESTAR UNION

REPS: Duncan Wilmore, ALPA LEADER and Toni Carpenter, AFA

rep; also jointed by machinists, Dominick Amato and Charley

Dent, sitting in for his father's union.

INT. WILDMAN BUILDING - FIFTH AVENUE APARTMENT - DAY

Bud, Duncan Wilmore, Toni Carpenter, Dominick and Charley,

an unlikely looking group in the plushness of the apartment

lobby.

INT. WILDMAN APARTMENT - DAY

Lofty windows overlooking the Park, an impeccably-decorated

apartment with coffee and rolls laid out, a young AIDE

quietly moving around. Bud and the others are on sofas

around the imposing figure of Wildman in a chair across.

Sir Lawrence leans back in his chair, equably...

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud hurries in, past Marv on the phone with an irate customer.

He slams the phone down.

Bud intersecting Lou Mannheim smoking a cigarette and having

a hard time walking.

Davls looks gravely at Bud.

Bud hears him, walks on...

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud on the phone, checking his quotron.

Immediately goes back to the other line.

INT. THE WALL STREET JOURNAL OFFICES - DAY

The REPORTER, who Bud anonymously called on the earlier

Anacott Steel buy, hangs up. He rises from his desk and

crosses the busy news floor, over to his EDITOR.

INT. NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE - DAY

A RUNNER dashes up to the BLUESTAR AIRLINES post, where a

heated crowd is gathered, amidst heavy trading. He elbows

his way over to a TRADER, handing him the ticket. The TRADER

holds up the buy order, screaming, making frantic hand

signals, in search of a seller. Faces in the crowd look up

at the broad tape.

CAMERA TILTS TO:

BLUESTAR (BST), the stock quote flashing across the BROAD

TAPE--upticking to 20 1/4.

INT. BROKERAGE OFFICE - DAY

Marv, on the phone pitching, eyes glued to the office TAPE--

as BST jumps to 21 1/4.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

The quotron now climbs to 22 1/8!

INT. GEKKO'S OFFICE - DAY

He paces on the other end of the phone, real anger showing;

now Alex and Susan seen in b.g.

As he glances at his quotron the stock ticks up another 1/8th.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

All the BROKERS have jumped into the action, avidly watching

Bluestar's stock climb on the BROAD TAPE. Bud sweeps into

the room and looks up at the board as the stock hits 22 7/8.

Marv nods, and rushes away. Bud crosses past Mannheim's office.

In background Marv is spreading the word, brokers frantically

grabbing phones, calling clients to sell.

INT. GEKKO'S OFFICE - DAY

Gekko looks up from his quotron and shouts to his troops on

the phones.

Natalie enters the room, flustered.

As Duncan, Toni Carpenter, Dominick Amato, Charley Dent and

SEVERAL other assorted UNION MEMBERS march into the room.

Gekko is taken by surprise, but stays calm.

They file out of the room. The phone lines have lit up like

a Christmas tree. Alex answers a call.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud switches lines from Gekko to Larry Wildman.

EXT. WILDMAN'S YACHT - DAY

Wildman is off the Long Island Sound waters in his boat

lighting a cigar. Two beautiful women and an aide are with him.

Switches lines, checking his quotron...

INT. NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE FLOOR - DAY

Wildman's broker takes the order with a curt "got it" and

dashes out of the cubicle over to the Bluestar post where a

chaotic crowd is gathered, traders frantically screaming to

sell Bluestar shares. He looks at the Big Board--sees an XTR

drop to 17. When he raises his hand to buy, he is mobbed.

The Big Board...a series of snappy dissolves accompanied by

lively music shows the stock price falling to 16 1/2 ...

INT. GEKKO'S OFFICE - DAY

Alex, Ollie, Susan on the phones.

Harold Salt, walking on egg shells, looks to Gekko, who sits

with the phone receiver crooked to his neck.

Bud scribbling an order ticket, replies on the other end.

Bud moves the phone away from his ear, at Gekko's cursing,

and signs the ticket.

Bud hangs up and rushes off with the ticket.

INT. GEKKO'S DEN - NEW YORK APARTMENT - TWILIGHT

The 35" television is on to:

Camera discovers Gekko sitting, grimly watching the report.

Rudy seen riding his toy car in background.

Camera now tracks in close on Gekko as he absorbs the

unexpected blow. O.S. Rudy yelling and squealing. Gekko

leans back, putting the pieces together, his eyes narrowing

into burning slits. He smashes the glass cocktail table with

a massive paperweight as Kate hears it, shocked.

EXT. WALL STREET - MORNING

People rushing to work. Bud crosses the street, his face

buried in The Financial Times. Insert: "SIR LAWRENCE WILDMAN

MOUNTS BLUESTAR BUY WITH UNION SUPPORT".

Satisfied, Bud folds the paper and heads into his office

building.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

He walks past Carolyn the receptionist who is strangely mute...

INT. MAIN OFFICE - DAY

He passes the CHINESE STOCKLADY. She sees him and manages to

look away. Marvin exchanges a look with him but can't bring

himself to talk. Bud wonders...the whole office seems

silent, the other BROKERS stealing glances.

...as he passes Lou Mannheim with Charlie Cushing, who

ignores Bud...

Mannheim stops, winds up. Bud impatient but polite.

But not really. As, on this increasingly strange morning, he

moves on past Janet who wants to tell his something but he

cuts her off.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

As Bud walks in, the camera glides to reveal the young SEC

INVESTIGATOR, who has been tracking Buddy, going through his

files. A SECOND MAN, PATTERSON, is standing behind the desk

using the phone as a bored-looking 3RD MAN and POLICEMAN

stand off to the side with Hieronymus Lynch, who gives Bud a

withering glance.

On Bud--a struck-dumb look passing to resignation, as if for

a long time now, he has been expecting this.

The handcuffs come out.

EXT. SHEEPSMEADOW - CENTRAL PARK - TWILIGHT

Long shot. Activity is winding down, a few sunbathers

collecting their blankets. A solitary figure stands on a

hill silhouetted by the sunset. A second figure appears on a

footpath and starts climbing the hill towards the other man.

Gekko waits, expressionless... Bud approaches him. They

stand facing each other.

Bud looks away. Gekko's smile fades.

Without warning, he grabs Buddy roughly by the lapels and

lets out his inner rage with a series of smacks and slaps

across his face.

Gekko slapping him harder and harder, Buddy staggering with

the blows, saying nothing, not defending himself.

He backhands Bud across the face. Bud lies on the ground,

spent, as is Gordon breathing hard. Bud gets to his knees,

blood streaming from his nose, his suit muddied. Passersby

look on, wondering.

Gekko seems to relent, the rage going into hurt, remorse. He

hands Bud a handkerchief. Bud staunches the flow of blood

from his nose.

Bud looks at Gordon, torn by mixed emotions: the bonds they

share and the betrayal wrought.

He looks at Gordon, as if wanting to say more, but doesn't.

In long shot, Gordon stands alone as Bud walks away.

EXT. TAVERN ON THE GREEN RESTAURANT - EVENING

The DOORMAN looks askance. Bud, mud-splattered suit and

bloody nose, walks straight past him thru the door.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Several well-heeled DINERS look up from their haute cuisine,

at the sight of Bud making his way toward the men's room.

INT. MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Tight on Bud, staring at his reflection in the mirror, as he

unbuttons his shirt, revealing adhesive tape swathed across

his chest. Camera paces back as he winces when...

MORRISSEY and AGOSTINI, the two investigators, rip the tape

off his chest, retrieving a small tape recorder. Morrissey

of the S.E.C. rewinds the cassette. We hear Gekko's voice

being played back on the tape, the mention of their deals.

Bud looks searchingly in the mirror. Faint CLICKING NOISE

comes up over the shot.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

CLICKING of the Broad Tape grows LOUDER. Shots of Lou

Mannheim, Lynch, Marv; silently looking up at the green

fluorescent print-out.

THE TAPE--THE U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE TODAY ANNOUNCED

CRIMINAL CHARGES AGAINST CORPORATE RAIDER GORDON GEKKO AND

STOCK BROKER BUD FOX, FOR CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT SECURITIES

FRAUD, TAX EVASION, VIOLATIONS OF SECURITY ACTS, AND MAIL

FRAUD...

INT. CARL FOX'S HOUSE - QUEENS - DAY

Carl, dressed in a suit and tie, sits at the dining table,

finished breakfast plates in front of him, refilling his

coffee cup. Mom clearing off the table, anxious...

As Bud walks in, wearing a suit and tie. He looks tired,

beaten, the eyes lifeless, in a dark mood.

She cuts off on Bud's look.

INT. CARL FOX'S SEDAN - LOWER MANHATTAN - DAY

Driving towards the Federal Courtrooms in Lower Manhattan.

Busy traffic all around.

Bud stares ahead, registering it.

As he pulls the car into the curb. The Federal Building, in

approaching POV, looms large before them.

Carl knows something Bud doesn't...

Darien is standing there waiting as they approach the main

entrance... Bud seeing her, suddenly stunned. His POV--

easing along the curb.

A last look with his father.

EXT. CURBSIDE - FEDERAL BUILDING - LOWER MANHATTAN - DAY

Bud getting out...crossing to Darien. A pause.

Bud looking at her, moves closer, longing and hope and

happiness have returned to his dull eyes... and forgiveness,

the greatest of all.

They embrace. Bud will never know about her past, nor need

he. The camera leaving them on a slanting, circular crane,

lifting past the Federal Building to a panorama of Wall

Street in all its icy magisterial splendor...and thus ends

our tale.

