A BLACK SCREEN

Onto which is written in white letters...

"When business in the United States underwent a

contraction... the Federal Reserve created more paper

reserves.

The excess credit spilled over into the market triggering a

fantastic speculative boom... "

EXT. CLINTON CORRECTIONAL FACILITY - DAY

It's a summer day. The heat floats above the pavement.

A cab waits in the lot.

The large gates of New York's largest prison open and today's

group of newly released emerge.

They pass a guard who lifts up a copy of The USA Today to

reveal the headlines and date that tells us it's 2002.

Amongst this group we find a man carrying a small duffel.

And we know this man. He is Gordon Gekko.

But he is not as slick as we remember... he doesn't have that

gleam in his eyes or that gel in his hair. No, this is a

very different version of the man we remember... because now

there's nothing behind those eyes... nothing we can read

anyway.

And he just stands there... coldly watching his recently

freed brethren greet their wives and children... reuniting

with the people who waited for them... the people who love

them.

The cab slowly pulls up and Gordon holds up a finger... wait

a minute. He glares over to the entrance of the lot...

waiting for his people... but they don't come.

And the cab waits... Gordon stands there... in the heat...

completely disappointed... and completely alone.

And we...

SLAM BACK INTO

As the white letters reappear on the screen...

"As a result... the American economy collapsed...

Taken from an article about the pre-crash 1929...

... written by Alan Greenspan."

SLAM INTO: A MANHATTAN MORNING

A gorgeous June Friday.

Find ANDREW ZABEL, mid 50s, shaved-head and in good shape.

As Andrew leaves 36 East Gramercy Park East, an impressive

building made of white stone.

Andrew wears a suit and holds an umbrella.

As Andrew heads to a newsstand and throws the INDIAN CLERK a

familiar nod. And without saying a word, the clerk knows

exactly what to give him.

23RD ST SUBWAY STATION

As Andrew bounds down the stairs and through the gate...

As Andrew emerges out to the platform and sees the headlight

from the 5 train coming down the tunnel.

And as the train approaches... holding that Wall Street

Journal... the bottle of water and that tin of Altoids...

... Andrew Zabel simply steps forward and falls onto the

track.

And as the train SLAMS into US...

Which holds for an uncomfortably long moment, then...

"Money Never Sleeps" graces the screen... and we move down

below the letters to find...

Now filling the screen. It's of the Dow Jones Industrial

Average. It's for the year 2008 and it's down to the

right... not good.

A circle marks Friday June 13th. Follow a blue line back

three days and stop. Another circle is now formed and

Matthew Good's "Giant" rings out...

CARD: JUNE 6th 2008... 8 DAYS EARLIER...

Opening titles... the workplace throng... listening to their

iPods, checking their Blackberrys and sipping their

Starbucks.

Move with this throng, to the Matthew Good tune, under the

opening titles, past 745 Seventh Avenue, the Lehman Brothers

building... with that giant ticker that rounds the building

posting Dow 12,579.76 -- +119.86

And keep moving... all is normal in the financial center of

the universe.

Land on a impressive modern building made of glass and steel

then climb up it to the top... to the penthouse office

suites.

And push in through the window to be in...

INT. KELLER, ZABEL INVESTMENTS/ANDREW ZABEL'S OFFICE - DAY

An impressive office with a 180 degree view of southern

Manhattan. Zabel sits behind his desk.

And across from Andrew Zabel sits JACOB L. MOORE... who holds

his bonus check.

On the wall over Zabel's shoulder runs an electronic ticker

with the major indices and just one stock... ticker KZI...

Keller Zabel Investments.

Zabel forces a smile. But Jacob can tell something's wrong

with him.

Zabel doesn't answer... he just nods to the envelope.

He opens the envelope and looks down at the check.

$1,450,000. And he can barely contain his excitement.

And we get a good look at Jacob now... boyish features that

display humility with a trace of mischievousness thrown in.

He's definitely sexy, definitely cerebral and definitely

winning.

And Jacob tries to play it cool as he looks up at the

electronic ticker on the wall... 12,592.46 -- +132.46... KZI

$71.67... +$3.12.

CLOSE ON A RING

Pull back to be in...

INT. TIFFANY'S - DAY

Jacob inspects the ring then looks up to the fey salesman.

He looks around the store for a moment, then...

And with a big smile...

INT. JACOB'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Two bedroom in a Murray Hill high rise. Jacob watches Fox

Business on his tv. A much nicer, much bigger, much flatter

plasma sits against the wall under it waiting to be

installed.

A promo plays for a magazine show being narrated by Cody

Willard.

Different pictures flash on the screen of private jets,

massive mansions, expensive watches and wines.

Now the flashes are of some of the top HEDGE FUND MANAGERS in

the business that we'll see later... one of them is a man

named BRETTON WOODS... maybe we hold a little longer on him

to get a good look... Mid 40s, good looking and refined.

Jacob lets out a little laugh and mutes the tv.

He grabs the phone and makes a call...

He grabs a framed picture of her and looks at it.

She's in workout gear, wearing earbuds, obviously just off a

run, caught off guard and thus flipping him the finger...

it's adorable.

And he finishes his message to her...

As Jacob disconnects and looks out the window... looking out

at Third Avenue twinkling up into Midtown.

AND WERE BACK ON THE CHART

Where the blue line travels down the Dow trend line, down and

to the right then stops on Thurs June 12th.

CARD: 6 DAYS LATER

INT. KELLER, ZABEL INVESTMENTS/TRADING FLOOR - MORNING

A large space lined with long desks that hold five TRADERS

each. Each trader has two phones and three huge monitors in

front of them.

It's loud and frenetic. Most of the traders are under thirty-

five, it's a young person's game.

Jacob heads in and takes his seat at his desk. It's larger

than the others and anchors the room... this is his domain.

Fox Business plays on each of the screens that line the space

ubiquitous. (A note, when possible, business news will be

droning from television sets throughout this movie in bg...

as it is the current soundtrack of New York these days)

A trader named WILLY shouts out...

Jacob confirms...

A trader named AUDRY turns to Jacob.

Willy glares at her.

Willy pleads with Jacob...

Jacob just shrugs...

Audry grins in victory.

Willy shakes his head, grabs a marker, scribbles something

down on a post-it then places it on his forehead. It reads

"I bought Toll Brothers at $24" and he has to wear it all

week.

And Jacob laughs... now looking up at the electronic

ticker... KZI $60.21... -$2.25...

INT. ONE OAK - NIGHT

An ultra exclusive club reserved for Wall Street money-men,

Hollywood players, gangstas and supermodels.

TI's "Whatever You Like" blares.

The dance floor is packed with New York's privileged draped

in Prada and dripped in sweat.

Jacob heads a table of five men who are all in suits. They

are all in various areas of finance... a HEDGE FUND Portfolio

Manager, a DERIVATIVES TRADER, a PRIVATE EQUITY CFO and a

QUANT ANALYST.

The quant stares at a HIGH CLASS CALL GIRL working the room

across the way. He then turns back to the guys with...

Confirming in frustration...

They all laugh.

The laughter dies down.

Private Equity CFO nudges Hedge Fund PM in reference to the

woman who just took the seat at the next table...

Confused...

As Hedge Fund PM opens a bottle of Krug, Clos du Mesnil 1995

and pours it into the flutes.

Offering Jacob a flute...

Declining the champagne...

A woman takes the table next to them and this makes

Derivatives Trader perk up and say.

Hedge Fund PM checks out the woman.

Even more confused...

Hedge Fund PM leans into Quant and explains...

And Private Equity CFO turns to Jacob with...

As a supermodel now joins the next table.

Going long Starwood. Starwood's a buy!

And Quant looks over to the model then back proudly with...

The guys just shake their heads...

EXT. LOWER BROADWAY - NIGHT

Jacob and Derivatives Trader enjoy the summer night. Out of

all the guys, he's closest to Jacob. His name is Robby.

Robby nods.

And it dawns on Robby...

Jacob smiles at his friend's perception.

Jacob shakes his head.

And they continue to walk, until...

Robby slowly nods...

Jacob shakes his head...

And Robby stops walking.

Turning to Jacob with...

Robby confirms... then...

Looking his friend head on...

EXT. 533 THIRD AVENUE - MORNING

Jacob leaves his Murray Hill building apartment and nods to

his doorman, DIEGO.

Jacob smiles...

And Jacob waits for the morning joke.

Diego cracks up. Jacob just shakes his head and moves on.

And Jacob walks uptown... deep in thought. It's a gorgeous

June Friday.

Suddenly, Jacob just stops walking and stands there for a

long moment... coming to a decision.

And as Jacob turns around and starts heading the other way...

INT. 36 GRAMERCY PARK EAST/LOBBY - MORNING

Jacob smiles to the doorman.

INT. LOBBY - MOMENTS LATER

The elevator opens and Andrew Zabel appears with two adorable

Bichon Frise puppies. Jacob stands.

Zabel nods and heads for the door.

EXT. GRAMERCY PARK - MORNING

As they enter through the gates of the park and walk...

And Andrew Zabel doesn't seem all there... introspective and

blank.

Zabel laughs.

Zabel stops walking and faces Jacob with...

And Jacob L. Moore... looking his boss head on...

And Zabel just looks away...

INT. KELLER, ZABEL INVESTMENTS/TRADING FLOOR - DAY

The normally very loud and frenetic place is very quiet and

sober today. They all watch Alexis Glick report...

And standing in the center of the floor, watching this...

Stunned... horrified... his universe becoming unglued.

And he turns to Audry... helpless and in shock.

She can only shrug... tears in her eyes.

Jacob shifts his gaze over to the trading floor's electronic

ticker on the wall... KZI $26.34... -$29.57.

And he moves for the elevator banks... unable to take it

anymore.

EXT. MIDTOWN -DAY

Furious, Jacob walks down 6th ave with his phone to his ear.

He disconnects the call and keeps walking.

After a beat, with his anger brewing... Jacob SLAMS his phone

down on the ground and it shatters.

INT. JACOB'S APARTMENT - DAY

Jacob lays on his couch vacantly pondering the ceiling.

Fox Business plays on the new plasma tv on the wall...

footage of THE GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK, a tough looking man in

his 40s, speaking to the press outside of The State Capitol.

Jacob glares over to the tv.

And there's a loud knock on the door. Jacob ignores it.

Another knock... this time louder. Jacob mutes the tv.

From the door...

Jacob gets up, moves slowly and answers the door.

Robby sharply nods.

He stops short... swallows...

Once again... he stops short and looks away in frustration.

Jacob just stands in that doorway. No reaction at all.

Absolutely frozen.

INT. JACOB'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob now stands in the center of his apartment. Completely

in shock. As he looks to the plasma... Fox Business on mute.

Brian Sullivan reporting under the graphic KZI $19.34... -

$37.28.

He glares at it for a long moment, then... almost calmly

picks up a chair and throws it into the tv... which shatters.

And Jacob... not sure what to do. Until... he turns and

sees... on the dresser... a gorgeous engagement ring sitting

in an open box... a fuck you ring.

EXT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY/CAMPUS - DAY

As Jacob bounds the steps of the Business School and heads

into the old stone building.

INT. COLUMBIA SCHOOL OF BUSINESS/URIS LECTURE HALL - DAY

The lecture hall is packed with wall to wall students. Jacob

stands at the back.

A PROFESSOR is at the podium.

Some laughter from the room.

Again laughter from the floor.

The room applauds... and out to the podium slowly walks...

No swagger in his step... not in a suit... hair not slicked

back... but still looks fucking good.

As he waits for the applause to wind down... and even a

little longer... surveying every corner of the large room...

commanding its full attention... getting it... holding the

silence... until finally... he leans into the mic and says...

The room breaks into laughter... Gordon smiles and waits for

it to die down.

As he takes to a pace...

As he takes a moment and looks over the room...

Jacob's blackberry vibrates and he checks it. He has a text.

"KZI!!! -- wtf?"

Taking a moment to survey the room...

Jacob quickly glances down again at his blackberry and checks

the quote, KZI $14.53.

Drawing in a deep breath...

The room laughs in agreement.

And Jacob's blackberry vibrates again. This time he removes

it from his pocket, doesn't check it and simply turns it off.

And Gordon stops pacing... takes a moment for effect.

Then sums it all up with...

And Gordon takes in a deep breath...

Now the room is completely silent.

A stunned girl in the front row shakes her head.

INT. URIS HALLWAY - DAY

Jacob looks on as Gordon is surrounded by professors and

students alike...

EXT. URIS HALL - EXACTLY 6 MINUTES LATER

Gordon quickly walks out with his PUBLISHER, a woman in her

40s and heads into the quad. Jacob immediately matches their

stride.

As he keeps walking...

And this makes Gordon stop and finally face Jacob with...

EXT. 112TH STREET - MOMENTS LATER

As Gordon and Jacob leave the campus and take to the street.

Jacob quickly takes out his blackberry, turns it on and

checks to see Gordon's right... KZI... $12.54.

And Jacob looks at him.

And Gordon stops walking and regards Jacob. Who confirms...

As that registers...

And Jacob coldly shakes it off then sucks in a deep breath

and looks into Gordon's eyes... genuine and lofty...

And realizing what this is... Gordon starts to laugh... which

throws Jacob off.

And that slams into Jacob... who's frozen for a beat.

Jacob finally snaps out of it then joins Gordon.

And Gordon regards Jacob for a long moment, taking him in,

until...

Jacob looks down the street.

With a laugh...

As Gordon pats Jacob on the back...

... and heads for the subway.

INT. 110TH STREET SUBWAY STATION - DAY

Gordon takes out his wallet and produces his metrocard.

Jacob notices a picture of Winnie in the wallet.

Gordon shrugs and shows the picture to Jacob.

It's of a young Winnie and younger Gordon on the back of a

gorgeous white horse.

Gordon slowly nods.

And Gordon thinks about, then...

Gordon sighs, takes the picture out of his wallet and hands

it to Jacob.

As they wait for the train...

Jacob produces the ring box and opens it to show Gordon the

ring.

As the train arrives...

As he gets on...

INT. THE DOWNTOWN 3 TRAIN - DAY

Gordon stares at a one sheet advertisement on the wall.

And he doesn't look at Jacob when he says...

Jacob just looks away.

And Jacob now sees the poster that has Gordon's attention.

It features a pile of money being blown out the window under

the caption that reads... "If this looks familiar to you...

it's because you're renting!"

"Guardian Mortgage... Low down payments... Adjustable rates."

And now Gordon turns to face Jacob with...

And Jacob swallows that back... doesn't argue it.

Off Jacob's confusion...

As Jacob considers that... the train slows to a stop.

As he steals one last glance at that Guardian Mortgage ad...

And with that, Gordon moves for the doors.

But Jacob steps in front of him.

As the subway doors open...

And Gordon Gekko gets off the subway... leaving Jacob on the

train. But right before the doors close, Gordon stops and

turns with...

As the doors close...

And as the subway pulls out of the station, Jacob Moore just

stands there... holding the pole and wondering what the hell

that was supposed to mean.

EXT. ANDREW ZABEL'S MATINECOCK, LONG ISLAND HOME - DAY

A Victorian Estate on a bluff. Zabel's funeral in progress.

Hundreds of people made it out from the city. All types.

And we pan the procession of mourners... past...

... past...

... and past...

And we land on Jacob L. Moore...

He wears a dark suit... and a blank expression...

... with nothing but cold retribution in his eyes.

INT. POOL HOUSE - DAY

Most of the guests across the pool eat and quietly mill about.

We're with Jacob, Willy, Audry and another trader named

DANIEL.

Jacob walks around the room... taking in the pictures of

Andrew Zabel's life...

He just shakes his head...

Jacob pulls away from the wall of pictures...

They all look at him.

Jacob confirms...

And Jacob looks at a picture of Andrew Zabel one more time...

... and goes.

EXT. ANDREW ZABEL'S HOME - DAY

Jacob heads for the main house. He sees BARBARA ZABEL,

Andrew's wife, sitting next to the some friends.

Jacob slowly walks over and when she sees him... she

stands... wobbly and full of tears.

Jacob takes her into his embrace...

Squeezing her tight... fighting back a rush of emotion.

And Jacob Moore stops short... finally breaking down...

allowing his own tears to stream down his face.

He pulls away...

She nods.

And Jacob moves away from the people and moves across the

lawn. But he stops when he sees a woman standing across the

way... we've seen pictures of her.

She's in her late-twenties with a natural beauty that might

take two glances to notice. But after that second glance...

it's unforgettable. She's WINNIE GEKKO.

As she rushes to him...

And she looks into his eyes.

He nods. Regards her for a beat, then...

And then...

Jacob agrees. And she softly kisses him and squeezes him

tight... tears in her eyes.

Hugging her back.

AND THAT FUCK YOU RING

Glittering in all its glory. Pull back to be in...

Winnie looks up from the ring.

She regards him... he's serious.

He moves to her... takes the ring and places it on her

finger.

Then Jacob pulls her into his kiss... it's almost violent.

She's taken off guard.

And as they fall into each other then back onto the bed...

INT. KELLER, ZABEL INVESTMENTS/TRADING FLOOR - DAY

The whole floor is dead. The tvs are off.

Jacob cleans out his desk, Audry cleans hers out as well

across the way.

Jacob wipes his forehead and glances up at the large letters

on the wall "Keller, Zabel Investments."

And he shakes his head in anger and frustration...

She looks up.

He nods. She turns on her computer and takes a seat.

He stands over her shoulder.

Jacob shakes his head...

Without answering her...

And she looks over to Jacob with...

As he takes in that information...

And he kisses her on the forehead...

... and goes.

INT. CHRISTIE'S SHOWING - NIGHT

As Jacob peruses the paintings that are going up for auction

with Hedge Fund PM.

INT. EVOLUTION STUDIO'S - DAY

A private gym on Greene street. As Jacob spars with a

BLOGGER from streetaccount.com...

INT. TRICEBA LOFT - NIGHT

5000 square feet of space, exposed brick and Minotti

furniture. A private wine tasting is being held.

About fifteen people look on as the SOMMELIER describes the

details of the bottle he's uncorking.

Near the back, find Jacob standing with a MORGAN STANLEY

PRIVATE CLIENT GROUP PORTFOLIO MANAGER.

As they stand in front of a huge Sigmar Polke...

While showering Jacob with quick jabs...

Holding the wine he's supposed to be sampling but not

drinking it...

As they move on from the Polke...

As he removes his head gear and wipes away the sweat.

As they receive the next glass of wine...

EXT. UNION STATION WASHINGTON DC - NIGHT

Jacob gets off the train and sees her across the platform...

Winnie.

And as he brings her into his embrace...

INT. WASHINGTON DC/15 RIA RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Jacob and Winnie have dinner with her boss, SENATOR KATHERINE

LEHIGH, 50's.

Senator Lehigh nods.

Winnie looks over to Jacob.

And Jacob takes for an extra long moment... holding her

look... then comes to a decision and lies...

But Winnie continues to glare at him... until...

EXT. MANHATTAN - MONDAY MORNING

As New York opens for business...

INT. STREETACCOUNT.COM OFFICES - MORNING

The prevalent pay site for all hedgefunders, trading desk

cowboys and large individual players. Looks like a scrappy

internet start-up with mismatching cheap office furniture.

As our blogger from the gym sips his coffee, fires up his

computer and starts to type...

INT. WINNIE'S APARTMENT/WASHINGTON DC - MORNING

A small well appointed two-bedroom in Cleveland Heights.

Jacob wakes and leans up. He regards Winnie sleeping next to

him. He softly kisses her neck. She smiles in her sleep

then rolls over.

As their bodies intertwine...

INT. THE CAPITAL FUND/NEW YORK OFFICES - MORNING

A huge industrial space in the highline district that houses

this eight billion dollar hedge fund.

Find a meeting in progress with all of the fund PORTFOLIO

MANAGERS. This is known as the weekly idea storm session...

where each PM pitches new trade ideas.

As Hedge Fund PM stands up to present to the team with a

confident smile...

INT. WINNIE'S APARTMENT/WASHINGTON DC - MORNING

Dressed for work, Winnie heads into the bedroom and regards

Jacob still laying in bed.

She kisses him on the forehead, lays a section of The

Washington Post on his chest with a little laugh then goes.

As Jacob looks down to see... it's the classified jobs

section.

INT. MORGAN STANLEY/PRIVATE CLIENT GROUP OFFICES - MORNING

Midtown, corporate, high-floor.

Find the private client portfolio manager we remember from

the wine tasting.

He sits at his computer in a big corner office with a

beautiful western view to the river behind him and types in

an IM window "AMLN short -- FDA to deny Byetta" then hits

send.

As he receives the digital receipt... "1209 instant messages

sent."

INT. WINNIE'S APARTMENT/WASHINGTON DC - MORNING

As Jacob munches toast and watches Fox Business in his

underwear...

Jacob smiles.

INT. AMLYN PHARMACEUTICALS/PRESS ROOM - DAY

A select group of Financial JOURNALISTS sit in small metal

chairs in front of a podium with the Amlyn name and logo

behind it.

As the INVESTOR RELATIONS OFFICER heads up the podium and

opens his prepared statement...

INT. WINNIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Jacob watches "Happy Hour" on Fox Business as Winnie opens a

bottle of wine in the kitchen. She pours a glass of wine and

another of water.

As she hands him the glass of water...

And Jacob sees Amlyn Pharmaceuticals graphic on the screen

and turns up the tv.

Jacob brings her in and kisses her...

Her phone rings. As she goes to answer it...

Picking up the phone...

As she pulls the phone away from her ear and looks over to

Jacob...

EXT. 15 CENTRAL PARK WEST - NIGHT

Jacob rounds West 62nd street and stares down the hottest new

address in Manhattan. A little nervous, he sucks in a deep

breath then heads into the building.

INT. 15 CENTRAL PARK WEST/ PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

A BUTLER lets Jacob in. Jacob takes in the massive space

with an insane view of Central Park. He can hear a beautiful

sonata playing in the next room.

The butler nods then leads Jacob through the full floor unit

and into the...

A huge chandelier hangs over the all marble room. A

fireplace on one wall and a twelve foot wall of glass

featuring that park view on the other.

And Jacob realizes that sonata is live. He's walked into a

recital of some sort.

About twenty people sit watching a YOUNG GIRL play on a very

unique looking silver grand piano.

The girl can't be a day over thirteen. She's playing

Mozart's "Ronda Alla Turca"... her fingers gliding across the

keyboard in precision, her eyes closed in inspiration. It's

as spectacular as it is moving.

Jacob takes it in for a moment then looks over the room. All

ethnicities and types...

The AFRICAN LEADER in full tribal gear, the DISHEVELED ARTIST

with his GAY NOVELIST LOVER, the NEW YORK KNICK with his

MODEL WIFE, the MOVIE STAR with her TEENAGE SON.

And BRETTON WOODS...

Mid 40s, slicing jawline, deep set eyes, in great shape,

refined, composed and masculine.

He's the owner of this penthouse and he's looking right at

Jacob. Jacob looks away.

And the young girl finishes the last movement of the sonata

to applause.

The guests all stand, some go talk with the girl. Bretton

heads over to Jacob.

He speaks with a British accent.. Jacob nods.

Bretton looks over the room for a moment, scans his guests

then back at Jacob...

And the butler is already at Jacob's side, motioning him to

follow him.

INT. BRETTON WOODS'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Jacob waits for Bretton. He looks over the place. The view

of the park. The classic furniture.

AND THE HUGE PAINTING ON THE WALL

Of a giant man-like monster eating a much smaller naked

human. The smaller man's head's been bitten off and blood

drips down the body.

Jacob holds on the painting.

As Jacob turns to see Bretton standing in the doorway.

Bretton heads in and closes the door behind him.

Sitting behind his desk...

Jacob nods. Bretton just looks at him... making him nervous.

There's a long beat of silence with Jacob just looking at

Bretton... taking him in.

And it's unmistakable -- the one thing that this man exudes

above all else... is composure.

Off of Jacob's slight smile...

Jacob just shrugs.

Bretton nods... regards him.

And Bretton sighs...

Jacob just glares at him.

And Jacob holds Bretton's look for a moment, then... heads

for the door without saying a thing...

Jacob stops and turns...

And Jacob takes a beat... processing this...

As he stands...

And Jacob sucks in a deep breath -- containing his anger.

... heading for the door...

And Jacob just regards him, then...

Bretton smiles...

Jacob nods... holding Bretton's look. Then...

And Bretton takes a moment to think about that, then simply

says...

... and disappears into his penthouse.

EXT. 533 THIRD AVENUE - MORNING

Jacob heads out of his building to be greeted by...

Diego smiles...

As he goes into the hot summer day...

EXT. UPPER EAST SIDE/ATLANTIC GRILL - DAY

Jacob heads up to the restaurant to find Gordon Gekko waiting

outside.

Jacob just stands there.

INT. WHOLE FOODS - DAY

Gordon and Jacob share a little table out front of the market.

Gordon enjoys a turkey burger from the deli while Jacob doesn't

eat.

Jacob nods and slides something across the table. The

picture of Winnie in workout gear, flipping the finger.

Gordon looks at it and laughs.

As he places it in his pocket...

Off Gordon's look...

Gordon shrugs.

And never to look up from his lunch...

With a smile in and over-the-top faux innocence.

Gordon just shakes his head.

As Gordon finally looks up from his burger... impressed.

EXT. PARK AVENUE - DAY

As they walk up Park Avenue...

Jacob doesn't say anything. And Gordon doesn't press.

And this makes Jacob smile... then...

As they walk some more in silence, until...

Jacob slowly nods... not surprised.

As Gordon stops in front of a Georgian-style, pre-war

building and turns to Jacob...

INT. 655 PARK AVENUE/ELEVATOR - DAY

Gordon and Jacob get into the elevator, Gordon pushes "4."

The doors begin to close but someone gets on at the last

moment.

He's a hedge fund type, real SLICK, reminds us of Gekko

twenty years ago. Oh... and he's about 29 years old.

Gekko nods. Slick hits his floor... "PH."

INT. GEKKO'S APARTMENT/LIVING ROOM - DAY

No doubt about it, this is a nice place. Worth three million

dollars, maybe four at the beginning of the year.

Sparsely decorated. Large framed photographs line the walls.

Gordon shows Jacob pictures of Winnie's childhood.

Smitten, Jacob looks at some more of the pictures then

stands... taking in the large framed pictures on the wall.

As Jacob checks out a framed chart for "Gouda Tulip Bulbs Dec

1 1634 to Feb 5 1637." The chart goes straight up and to the

right then straight down in a single line.

As Jacob moves over to an another piece.

Jacob now finds himself looking at a political cartoon from

the early 1900s.

It's of two men rowing a boat in a lake of dollars. One of

the men is Uncle Sam dressed in US flag colors. But Sam's

very small in this cartoon... can't really row the boat.

The other man is much bigger and clearly doing the heavy

rowing. He is...

As they walk the hardwood floor...

And they arrive at the next piece on the wall... a small

framed bond.

And now Jacob notices a very strange picture across the

room... he goes over to look at it.

It's very old... black and white... of a woman filling her

stove with money.

As they both hold on the picture...

As he turns to face Jacob...

Looking Jacob head on... deadly serious...

And then...

Off of Jacob's confusion...

Jacob can't believe it. And with each passing moment of

realization... shock turns into rage.

As Jacob tries to calm himself.

Gordon confirms that with a simple shake of the head and...

While Jacob processes that...

As Jacob just looks away... non committal.

EXT. PARK AVENUE - NIGHT

As Jacob walks... on the phone with...

... who holds his sleeping infant in his hands.

Capitulating with a sigh...

And after a long moment.

Jacob stops walking... sucks in a deep breath...

With that, he disconnects and shakes his head in frustration.

And after a moment, Jacob sucks in a deep breath then makes

another call.

AND WERE BACK ON THE CHART

As a circle forms on June 19th then travels down the trend

line to early July and stops.

And as a circle is formed around July 4th, we...

Exploding over the Capitol building.

EXT. SENATOR LEHIGH'S GEORGETOWN HOME - NIGHT

A BBQ for the political set and their families. Paper plates

and plastic cups are being thrown away by HELP Children and

parents lay on blankets watching the fireworks.

Jacob holds Winnie as they look up at the sky...

She leans up, sips her wine, then...

Jacob laughs...

And Jacob looks at her.

As the fireworks explode into their finale...

She just looks away...

The firework show ends and everyone applauds...

Suddenly, everyone begins to look over to the house where

something is happening...

SECRET SERVICE PERSONNEL, wearing ear pieces, start walking

the lawn.

She stands up and looks across the lawn to where all the

action is.

He stands and kisses her...

She holds his look for a long moment, then... nodding over to

all the excitement...

INT. THE LOCUST FUND FOYER - DAY

A massive foyer of black marble with wall to wall views of

Manhattan. There's much more space than furniture here.

Jacob waits patiently in a white suede chair... he checks his

watch and sighs. He's been sitting here quite awhile.

Finally, the SIX FOOT TALL RECEPTIONIST, leaves her desk...

her heels clicking as she walks over.

Jacob stands and she leads him toward a bank of elevators.

The doors open and Jacob gets on.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Jacob stands there with Six Foot.

Jacob nods... holding a folder of his previous tax forms, his

passport and other documents obviously needed for the job.

And the elevator doors open... but not to an office...

Jacob shields his eyes to the wash of daylight... then looks

to realize that he's on the roof of the building.

And in front of him is... An Augusta A109E Helicopter with

"The Locust Fund" written on the side.

INT. AUGUSTA HELICOPTER - DAY

As Jacob looks down to the city below, wondering where the

hell they're going...

EXT. TETERBORO AIRPORT - DAY

Jacob emerges from the Augusta and looks across the tarmac to

see a Boeing 727 with "The Locust Fund" written on the side.

And now Jacob knows why he needed his passport.

EXT. LONDON - NIGHT

As the 727 dives down toward Biggin Hill airfield... the

lights of London twinkling to the north.

EXT. CHELSEA - NIGHT

The Black Maybach limousine pulls up out front of a 19,000-

square-foot Victorian home with the perfectly restored brick

exterior.

As Jacob gets out of the car and sizes down this incredible

home...

INT. BRETTON WOODS'S CHELSEA HOME/THE BLACK SWAN HOUSE - NIGHT

The design is much different that Woods's New York CPW

penthouse. It's more classical... with dark woods and worn

leathers and thick rugs and commanding views along the River

Thames.

And Jacob is lead into the...

Where Bretton eats alone at the head of the long table.

As Jacob walks through the expansive space...

... and sits.

And Bretton laughs.

Jacob notices two huge chocolate brown French Mastiffs

sitting at Bretton's feet.

Jacob laughs...

And Bretton stands...

As he heads into...

THE LIVING ROOM

A fire burning in the fireplace. Jacob follows Bretton in...

Bretton moves toward a table with a classic phonograph player

on it.

While Bretton looks through the various sleeves of records,

Contango and Backwardation slowly find their way into the

room and sit by the fire.

Bretton finds what he's looking for... removing the record

from its sleeve.

Bretton places the record on the phonograph and The Rolling

Stones "Let It Loose" rings out...

Jacob laughs. He was expecting Beethoven.

Taking a seat...

Then... simply...

Bretton stands and stretches.

Inside of a tired sigh...

And Bretton just sits there... enjoying his scotch while

taking in the Stones tune...

INT. LONDON/SAVOY HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

Jacob stands at the window of his suite... looking out onto

the Victoria embankment and on the phone with...

Gordon sits at the dining room table at his apartment.

Papers scattered about and his EDITOR waiting patiently.

EXT. LONDON - DAY

As the 727 takes off ...

INT. 727 - DAY

Jacob sits across from Bretton who enjoys a slice of Pizza

and a Coke.

And Jacob glares at Bretton like he might kill him.

Bretton looks up and Jacob immediately replaces his glare

with a smile.

Jacob declines... then...

As Bretton tosses some pizza to Contango and Backwardation...

And he looks out the window...

Never to look from the window... with just a trace of

disdain...

EXT. DUBAI/AERIAL VIEW - DAY

The most bizarre, stunning city in the world -- outlandish

skyscrapers, marinas, archipelagos...

And the 727 is now flying over...

THE WORLD OF ISLANDS

A collection of man-made islands that make out a one-

dimensional map-like depiction of Earth.

As we fly over this archipelago...

BECKER JETVAN LUXURY COACH

It's custom outfitted Mercedes-Benz van that's completely

decked out like the inside of a private jet. Full

entertainment system, recessed LED lighting, tray tables,

fine leather, blacked out windows that "defog" with the push

of a button, designed by Phillipe Starck and made custom for

$450,000 (once you get to the top of the waiting list.)

Jacob and Bretton ride into the city. Bretton takes a call

on his Vertu.

He disconnects the call with a mischievous smile and turns to

Jacob.

And Bretton turns on Fox Business to see footage of... The

Governor of New York standing at a podium next to his WIFE.

He doesn't look happy as he says...

Jacob's confused... Bretton's enjoying every second of

this...

Laughing with delight...

And Bretton simply turns to him and says...

EXT. BURJ AL ARAB HOTEL - DAY

1,000-foot-tall feat of modern design, perched on the edge of

the Persian Gulf.

As the Jetvan pulls out front...

INT. BURJ AL ARAB/LOBBY - DAY

As Jacob and Bretton walk through the ridiculously opulent

lobby plated in gold leaf.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

As they walk down the hall to their suites... Contango and

Backwardation tagging along.

As they stop in front of large double doors... the BELLMAN

opens the doors to reveal...

THE BURJ AL ARAB PREMIERE SUITE

Makes the Rainman Suite at Caesar's look like a standard room

at a Motel 6. 7000 square feet, 360 degree view, 70 inch

plasmas share the walls with Picassos and Monets.

Bretton nods over to the double doors across the hall...

INT. JACOB'S SUITE/BATHROOM - NIGHT

Now dressed in a tightly-fitting suit over a white shirt with

wing collars and stove-pipe skinny trousers, Jacob stands in

front of the mirror.

As Jacob throws on a top hat and admires the 1928 version of

himself....

INT. THE LEFT BANK - NIGHT

A Roaring 20's party is taking place... it's full-on

speakeasy vibe. It's right out of 1928, only with Europeans,

Russians and Middle-Easterners.

Smoke fills the room. A jazz band roars. Drinks flow.

As Jacob and Bretton head in...

And with that, Bretton points across the room where OLEG

BAKUNIN sits.

He's in his mid-40s, overweight, sweaty, draped in tight

black Prada and smoking a cigarette.

And it seems A MODEL BOMB has recently exploded at Oleg's

table... leaving the skinny shards everywhere.

Oleg sees them, stands and opens his arms.

Bretton smiles. They head over. Oleg turns to one of the

MODEL GIRLS next to him.

Oleg then looks at Jacob.

Oleg regards Jacob for a beat, then back to Bretton and asks

again...

Bretton smiles...

And now Oleg turns to Jacob.

Jacob takes a beat. Then...

Jacob just nods, not showing any emotion. Oleg motions for

the girls to make room and they all sit...

Bretton just looks away. Jacob stays cool.

Oleg motions to a WAITRESS who immediately pours vintage

champagne.

Oleg hands Jacob a flute before he can decline.

And Oleg aggressively puts his arm around Jacob, bringing him

into a drunken half-bear hug and spilling most of the

champagne out of Jacob's flute.

EXT. DUBAI HARBOR - NIGHT

Oleg and some of his crew lead Jacob, Bretton and three

beautiful, giggling model girls down a trail to a secluded

mooring.

Fishing boats bob violently in the water -- and next to them

is Oleg's Phoenix 1000, his personal, 65-meter SUBMARINE.

As a boatman helps them all climb aboard:

INT. SUBMARINE - NIGHT

As they walk through the ornate deck saloon:

Oleg beckons Jasper toward a huge panoramic window looking

out at the city of Dubai.

And then the view starts to MOVE. The surface of the water

RISES before them, Dubai recedes and the submarine descends

spectacularly into the depths.

INT. THE DECK SALOON - NIGHT

Lights illuminate the dark waters as curious fish flit past.

Jacob, Bretton and Oleg are on divans, the girls undulating

around them.

Oleg waves him off.

As Oleg shakes cocaine out of an envelope...

Jacob takes a beat, swallows nervously, then...

Bretton flashes Jacob a look... "What the hell are you

doing?" Jacob swallows back some nerves then continues...

Oleg looks up to Jacob from the line of coke with interest.

He looks over to Bretton who still glares at Jacob...

And Oleg regards Jacob for a long moment, a jury determining

the verdict... Jacob holding on to that sly smile... Bretton

looking away... playing it cool.

Oleg simply nods... with a simple...

... then does another line.

INT. JACOB'S SUITE - NIGHT

Jacob sleeps. There's a knock on his door. He stirs. The

knock's louder. Then... Jacob finally wakes, moves to the

door and opens it to see...

TWO BEAUTIFUL RUSSIAN WOMEN, PAULINA and NADIA

Confused...

Cozying up to her friend with a smile...

Jacob nervously thinks, then...

INT. JACOB'S SUITE - LATER

We pan across the suite... past the roaring fire...

... past the empty bottle of champagne...

... past the plate of half-eaten chocolate strawberries...

And find the three of them...

... sitting at Jacob's computer... looking over a chart for a

Russian oil company.

She looks to her friend with a smile...

Her friend agrees with a laugh. And Jacob checks the clock.

As he walks them to the door...

Jacob opens the door to let them go but he hears a door open

across the hall... Bretton's.

And they all witness a YOUNGER AMERICAN WOMAN leave Bretton's

room then head down the hall right by them.

Jacob's stunned.

Off Jacob's confusion...

THE YOUNGER AMERICAN WOMAN

that had just left Bretton's room looks right at us under the

caption "The Governor's $5000 Mistake"

Pull back to be on Perezhilton.com

Jacob Moore sits in front of his computer. And he turns to

Paulina.

And Jacob slowly takes that in... absolutely floored.

INT. BURJ AL ARAB/LOBBY - MORNING

Wearing sunglasses, Jacob greets Bretton at the elevators.

They walk for the exit.

Bretton smiles.

And Bretton turns to Jacob... impressed.

And as they head out into the Dubai heat...

EXT. BOWLING GREEN PARK - DAY

The iconic charging bull of Wall Street.

Travel the park to find... Jacob and Gordon stopping at the

food vendors.

As they get their food and walk...

Shaking his head...

SLAM INTO THE FRONTIER FUND/TRADING PIT

Rows and rows of computers in a large dark room....

... with casually dressed ASIANS and INDIANS in their 20s

working the keyboards like zombies.

AND SLAM INTO ESSEX CAPITAL ADVISERS/CONFERENCE ROOM

A stuffy conference room half-filled with bored MEN in their

40s watching a presentation...

Most of the men type on their blackberrys... one is actually

asleep.

THEN SLAM INTO THE DANIELS ACTIVIST FUND/ALLAN DANIELS'S

A small cluttered office with papers strewn about...

ALLAN DANIELS, a small bull-dog of a man, paces back and

forth... dictating in anger. His SECRETARY types down every

word he's shouting.

AND RIGHT BACK TO BOWLING GREEN PARK

Where Gordon stops walking...

And Jacob's look over to Gekko confirms this.

Regarding Jacob...

Jacob just shrugs.

And they trade. The hotdog for the pretzel.

Just standing there... holding that hot dog...

Looking Jacob dead on...

Jacob just shakes his head with a laugh... now realizing that

Gekko talked him into this position for this exact leverage.

With a smile...

INT. THE LOCUST FUND/JACOB'S OFFICE - DAY

As Jacob takes in his new view... it's spectacular.

AND TIME LAPSE

As the office grows furniture... a plasma on the wall...

a computer on the desk...

... books on the shelves... pictures on the walls...

a couch and table... a paper shredder and waste baskets...

Find Jacob at his desk... working away at his computer...

it's late at night.

And Jacob finally gets up from his desk... goes to the

window... looking across midtown Manhattan...

... eyes pasted on a building made of glass and steel... a

building he once called home...

... KZI Investments.

EXT. 533 THIRD AVENUE - DAY

Holding his suitcase, Jacob emerges from the elevator and

heads for a waiting town car.

Jacob sees Diego...

Diego smiles... loves this new one...

And Jacob agrees whole-heartedly as he heads on his way.

EXT. WASHINGTON DC - MORNING

As the sun rises over our nation's capital.

EXT. ROCK CREEK PARK - MORNING

Winnie and Jacob jog the park through the humid July haze.

It's very early.

And Jacob stops jogging. Catches his breath. She keeps

running.

She stops and turns back to him.

Winnie nods. It's a valid question. And she thinks about it

for a moment, then...

He turns away... upset.

She moves to him.

She reaches to him... turning his face to meet hers.

Jacob looks away... almost ashamed. And Winnie can sense

something's not right.

As Jacob draws in a deep breath, collects himself and finally

turns back to her with...

AND WERE BACK ON THE CHART

As a circle forms on July 20th then travels down the trend

and stops.

And as a circle is formed around August 11th, we...

EXT. WESTSIDE HIGHWAY- DAY

And Manhattan... as it sweats through the heart of summer.

Two jetvans ride uptown...

INT. JETVAN - DAY

As Jacob rides with Bretton...

Bretton looks over to him.

Confirming...

Waving him off...

EXT. ADIRONDACK FOREST PRESERVE - DAY

2.7 million acres of State protected majestic land. All

nature... rivers and lakes... cypresses and maples. Clean

air. And trails. Many trails that go on for miles.

As the two Becker jetvans arrive at a restricted area, a

STATE RANGER opens the gate and allows them to drive through

then park.

Jacob and Bretton emerge from the jetvan.

And with a nod, the DRIVER of the other jetvan opens it to

reveal two motorcycles inside. Bretton's MTT Turbine

Superbike and an Agusta, these bikes are handcrafted works of

art as much as they are demons of speed.

Jacob laughs in disbelief and excitement.

Sucking in the fresh summer air...

AND JACOB AND BRETTON

Now decked out in leather riding gear... on the bikes... at

the mouth of the trail... revving the engines...

And with that, shoots into the forest. Jacob quickly

follows.

AND THEY RIDE

Winding through the trees... along the side of a river...

Bretton riding extremely fast with Jacob trying to keep up.

Bretton reaches a clearing and waits for Jacob to catch up.

Once he does...

Jacob waits for a reaction from Bretton. But all he gets

is...

And with that, Bretton rips into the clearing. Jacob rides

just as fast. They're neck and neck... it's definitely a

race.

Bretton pulls ahead but Jacob doesn't give up.

As they move quickly toward a patch of forest with a only

narrow trail entering it, Jacob focuses on the horizon and

revs the bike into more speed. He pulls up next to Bretton

as they approach the trail.

If Jacob doesn't slow down, and fall in line behind Bretton,

he's going to hit the trees. But he doesn't.

Instead, Jacob blasts the bike into its final dose of speed,

narrowly avoiding impact by zipping into the trail... pulling

ahead of Bretton and taking the lead.

A TRANQUIL LAKE

As it sits still in the setting sun. Untouched by man.

Bretton and Jacob get off the bikes and walk to the shore.

As they catch their breaths and enjoy the beauty...

Bretton thinks about it. He's not sure.

Jacob nods...

Jacob can see... he has Bretton on the hook.

And with confidence... driving it home...

INT. JACOB'S OFFICE - DAY

As WORKERS install an electronic ticker that wraps around the

top circumference of the whole office... similar to the one

Andrew Zabel had.

Jacob picks up the phone and...

THE SCREEN SPLITS IN TWO

With Jacob on top and Robby on the bottom.

As Robby takes the order and starts typing into his

Bloomberg...

NOW ROBBY'S HALF OF THE SCREEN SPLITS INTO 6 SMALL BOXES

Six different trading desks... six different BROKERS taking

calls from Jacob who still owns the whole top half of the

screen.

AND BACK TO JACOB

Leaning back... feet on desk... staring at the ticker...

which only has three stocks on it...

MCC at $21.65, ACN at $16.24 and ISS at $7.23.

EXT. UPPER WEST SIDE - NIGHT

A rainstorm takes over the city. A cab pulls out front of

Shun Lee Cafe.

INT. TAXI - NIGHT

Winnie sucks in a deep breath.

Jacob confirms.

He takes her hand.

She just glares at him.

And she nervously fights back a smile...

INT. SHUN LEE CAFE - NIGHT

The HOST leads Winnie and Jacob through the grand dining

room. Gordon sees them and stands up. We can tell he's

anxious as well.

Fighting back the nerves...

They just stand there. Jacob holds out his hand.

Gekko just looks at him for an extra long beat, then...

shakes his hand.

They all sit.

Then Gordon attempts a smile over to his daughter.

She closes her menu.

And it trails off... as she just glares at Gordon.

She exhales, stands and looks down to Jacob.

And she quickly walks off. Jacob frozen. Until Gordon looks

over to him with...

And Jacob does. As Gordon looks down... disappointed.

INT. WEST 65TH - NIGHT

Pouring rain. Jacob runs after her.

He turns her around.

Her tears being washed away by the rain.

Jacob takes her into his hold...

Squeezing her tight...

She pulls out of his embrace...

And he just looks at her for a long moment... soaking wet and

shivering... crying and exposed.

INT. JACOB'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Darkness. The phone rings. Jacob answers it.

INTERCUT WITH...

He's working a coffee in the master suite of The Black Swan

Home...

Glancing at the LCD, 12:23am...

Jacob takes a beat.

Click. And as Jacob just looks at the phone...

INT. NORMA'S - MORNING

Jacob sits across from Gordon at this well-known breakfast

spot in the Parker Meridian hotel.

Jacob nods.

Suddenly, a MAN approaches the table. He's in his thirties.

Letting out a little laugh...

Tom isn't sure if Gordon's serious. Either is Jacob.

Tom politely smiles.

... and goes. Gordon looks down to his breakfast and quietly

asserts...

And after a moment...

As he casually places his egg on a piece of toast...

... and takes a bite.

AND THREE CHARTS NOW FILL THE SCREEN

Side by side... above the charts are written respectively

MCC, ACN and ISS.

And we follow all the three trend lines from Aug 17th forward

to the right... and they all move down.

And we stop in September. And as a blue circle is formed

over Sept 13th on all three charts, we...

TIME WARNER CENTER/BALLROOM

This is The Financial Follies... an annual event held by the

financial writers association.

500 people sit at tables, enjoying this dinner and live show

that pokes fun at people in the world of finance.

Everyone who's anyone in high finance is here.

On the stage, the spotlight finds BILL MAHER and the applause

breaks out...

Jacob shares a table with Bretton, Bretton's wife and a few

other FINANCIAL PLAYERS. Winnie is not here.

Laughter...

More laughter.

The spotlight finds SAMMY ROSEN, billionaire hedge funder.

From his table...

It's an inside joke that this room gets...

Across the room, a spotlight finds Gordon...

Gordon smiles and raises his glass up to Bill.

The room applauds...

And the room goes dark... and on the screen plays a childlike

roughly illustrated stick-figure skit being narrated by

children.

Under the caption "Main Street National Bank" is a drawing of

a Poor Man sitting across from a Banker Man behind his desk.

Under the caption "A few weeks later at the bank..."

Banker Man now stands over a pile of steaming shit.

Under the caption of "Smart People Investment Bank" Smart Man

stands over the same steaming pile of shit.

Under the caption of "The CDO Factory" our smart man oversees

an assembly line of stick figure workers.

Under the caption of "Rich Man Hedge Fund" a stick figure

named Rich Man sits behind his desk and holds a phone to his

ear.

Under the caption "Norwegian Village Pension Fund" a

Norwegian Man sits behind his desk and shouts into his phone.

Under the caption "Rich Man Hedge Fund," Rich Man at his desk

on the phone.

And it now shuffles between the last two frames... the

Norwegian Man and Rich Man.

The final frame

Just the rendering of that steaming pile of shit under the

caption... "The End."

And the lights go on to a some subdued laughter and a

smattering of applause.

INT. FINANCIAL FOLLIES - LATER

Desert is served. Jackets are off, cigars are lit, Bretton's

wife has gone home. The group at the table is a little drunk

and having a good time.

GEORGE, an investment banker at the table, thinks about it.

The table reacts... some agree, other don't. George turns to

Jacob.

They all boo...

And Jacob turns to Bretton...

An approaching voice answers it for him.

As he takes a seat...

Then... announcing to the table...

Also announcing to the table...

Jacob loses his smile... suddenly becoming uncomfortable.

Bretton looks over to Jacob.

And Jacob turns to Gordon...

Bretton leans back... taking in this sparring match.

And we go close on Gekko...

And Jacob can now see... in Gordon Gekko's eyes... he truly

believes every word he's saying.

As he stands...

And with that, Gordon Gekko goes.

EXT. 533 THIRD AVENUE - MORNING

Rushed, Jacob heads through the lobby of his building. Diego

catches his stride.

And Jacob just keeps walking...

INT. THE LOCUST FUND/JACOB'S OFFICE - MORNING

Jacob heads into the office to find Bretton sitting behind

his desk.

And sure enough... on the tv... Fox Business runs footage of

Lehman Brother's demise. On the screen, the chyron screams:

$700 BILLION GOVERNMENT BAILOUT TO THE BANKS!

Bretton turns off the tv and looks to Jacob with...

And Jacob looks up to his electronic ticker...

MCC $18.53 -2.34, ACN $12.04 -1.35, ISS $7.03 -.65.

Bretton holds Jacob's look... fighting to keep his composure.

Until... he simply stands and offers Jacob his desk back.

Jacob takes his chair and reaches for the phone.

Jacob looks up, surprised.

And he glares at Jacob.

Bretton just stares nervously at the electronic ticker... a

frazzled gambler talking himself into his bet.

As he goes...

AND WERE BACK ON THE CHART

As a circle forms on Sept 16th then travels down the trend

line and stops.

And as a circle is formed around the Sept 24th, we...

INT. JACOB'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

LCD reads 4:43 am. Jacob lays awake... staring at the

ceiling.

Jacob turns to see she's awake.

She leans up.

Jacob gets out of bed and throws on his robe.

As he sits on the edge of the bed...

The thought trails off... she leans up and kisses him.

And she looks into his eyes...

He slowly nods.

He leans over and kisses her forehead.

And he goes...

After a beat, she sees Jacob's wallet.

She jumps out of bed, grabs the wallet and goes after him,

but... it opens up and Winnie notices the picture inside.

And she stops, staring at that picture.

Her and her father on that white horse... taken years ago.

A picture she knows she never gave to Jacob.

INT. THE LOCUST FUND/JACOB'S OFFICE - MORNING

Jacob heads in and turns on Fox Business...

Jacob looks up at ticker on the wall.

MCC $15.13 -3.40, ACN $10.10 -1.96, ISS $5.14 -1.89.

And he stares at that ticker... at the The Locust Fund's

methodical death.

Suddenly...

He stands in the doorway holding a drink.

And Bretton CHUCKS the drink against the wall and the glass

shatters. Jacob takes a step back.

Bretton's in a complete state as he walks over to Jacob's

desk and SWIPES it clean... papers flying about.

Now he picks up the chair...

... throws it against the window... which cracks.

As he punches the monitor of Jacob's Bloomberg...

And Jacob just stands there... wide-eyed. Just looking at...

Face full of sweat... blood all over his hand... hair strewn

about... completely out of breath... bloodshot red eyes... a

beaten down mess of a man.

And Bretton calms down, walks to the window.

And he faces Jacob Moore.

And Jacob's face falls... this is news to him.

Bretton vacantly nods.

And Jacob Moore... trying his best to hide his

disappointment...

With a shrug...

Bretton then takes a moment... confirming to himself that

this is the right decision... then finally looks over to

Jacob with...

INT. CENTRAL PARK - DUSK

Sheep's meadow... painted in the soft light of sunset. Fresh

off his morning run, Gordon wears a sweat suit and works a

vitamin water. Jacob approaches in his suit.

And Gordon sighs in defeat...

As he walks...

And Jacob... as he matches Gordon's stride... in a complete

state.

Gordon stops walking.

Jacob turns away.

Now it's Gordon who looks away.

And with that, Gordon Gekko heads on his way...

Jacob steps forward... shouting out after him...

Gordon stops walking. Turns...

Jacob sharply nods.

Jacob just stands there... listening...

And Jacob now steps forward... piecing it together...

FLASH TO AN OLD BRICK BUILDING

"Jenkov Foundation For Brain Research" above the door...

RESEARCHERS in lab coats coming in and out of it.

THEN TO A COLLEGE CAMPUS

STUDENTS walking the quad... wearing backpacks and

socializing...

THEN TO A BIKE PATH

Somewhere in Florida. A COUPLE in their 70s enjoying a

beautiful day... riding bicycles side by side...

AND RIGHT BACK TO CENTRAL PARK

Gordon steps forward...

Jacob just stands there... stunned with what he's hearing.

And off Jacob's reaction...

INT. 15TH STREET DINER - NIGHT

Jacob shares a table with our Morgan Stanley Portfolio

Manager.

And as Morgan Portfolio Manager leans forward in

anticipation...

INT. TOYOTA DEALERSHIP - DAY

As Jacob and Hedge Fund PM walk the floor... checking out the

new 2009 Prius.

Jacob slowly nods. Then...

EXT. RIVERSIDE PARK - DAY

As Jacob jogs with our blogger from Streetaccount.com.

And Blogger looks over to Jacob... he hasn't.

INT. STREETACCOUNT.COM OFFICES - MORNING

As our blogger from the gym sips his coffee, fires up his

computer and starts to type...

INT. THE CAPITAL FUND/NEW YORK OFFICES - MORNING

As Hedge Fund PM stands up to present to the team with a

confident smile...

INT. MORGAN STANLEY/PRIVATE CLIENT GROUP OFFICES - MORNING

As Morgan Portfolio receives the digital receipt... "1209

instant messages sent."

EXT. 15 CENTRAL PARK WEST - NIGHT

As the cab stops outside of the building...

INT. BRETTON WOODS'S OFFICE - NIGHT

As the thunder claps outside. Jacob stares at the Goya

painting... Saturno Devorando a sus hijos Saturn. The man

being eaten alive.

Bretton skeptically regards Jacob.

And Bretton... biting his lip in thought...

And then...

Bretton slowly nods... taking all this in...

As Jacob leans forward... going in for the kill...

Bretton just shakes his head.

Bretton nods...

Jacob thinks for a moment, then...

And Bretton just sighs...

Standing...

And Jacob goes... Bretton calling out after him...

EXT. UNION SQUARE BORDERS BOOKS - DAY

"Moral Hazard! Why Wall Street Has Finally Gone Too Far" is

now everywhere.

In large cut outs and piles on tables and in the store's

windows.

Jacob arrives at the end of the line... New York's newest

best selling author is having a book signing.

AND GORDON GEKKO

Signs a book and looks up at the LADY who gave it to him.

With a smile...

And the next person steps up and hands Gordon a copy.

As he signs it...

Gordon just shrugs.

As the line of people holding their new books start to get

impatient...

Handing Jacob back the signed copy...

Off Jacob's confused reaction...

EXT. THE MALL/WASHINGTON DC - DAY

As they walk the mall... the Nation's Capitol behind them...

And she faces him... regarding his urgency...

As they continue to walk...

Jacob takes a moment... looking away with...

And she just regards him... not sure...

INT. MILBANK,TWEED,HADLEY & MCCLOY LAW OFFICES - DAY

As Jacob walks down the hall with KEN HADLEY, estate lawyer

to Manhattan's elite.

Hadley stops walking and thinks about it.

As that registers...

And with that, Jacob sets to go. But...

AND GORDON GEKKO

In the make-up chair of the Fox Business channel green room,

speaks into his phone.

INTERCUT WITH...

Jacob as he walks down 5th avenue...

Walking down 5th avenue...

Accepting that...

And as that hangs...

As she starts to sign the forms... we're in...

INT. MILBANK, TWEED, HADLEY & MCCLOY/CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Silence. A clock ticks. A large table. Three LAWYERS sit

on one side. Winnie and Jacob on the other and Gordon at the

head.

Winnie finishes signing the forms then slides them back to

Hadley who hands them to Gordon.

Jacob takes her hand but she pulls it away.

And after Gordon signs the papers, they all stand.

Gordon just looks at Winnie, who's now looking back at him.

Tears beginning to well.

And he slowly opens his arms...

And she slowly walks over to him... to his embrace...

She's now crying.

And confirming through her tears...

And Jacob Moore... witnessing this strange reunion...

realizing how right she is...

INT. JACOB'S OFFICE - DAY

Jacob's on the phone in his office, watching coverage of a

vote on the Senate floor...

SPLIT THE SCREEN

Robby, with a phone to his ear...

SPLIT THE SCREEN AGAIN... AND AGAIN... AND AGAIN...

Each time to another broker with a phone to their ear... our

six brokers from before...

AND THEN FOX BUSINESS NEWS COVERAGE

Day by day... Alexis Glick starting off the day's coverage.

And each new day finds Alexis in a different outfit with a

different headline above her head.

We don't hear her, it moves quickly and it's ugly.

"BAILOUT PASSED -- MARKET RALLIES"

"DOW REVERSES COURSE TRADES BELOW 10,000"

"DOW LOSES 2400 POINTS IN 4 SESSIONS

"MARKET CRASH CONTINUES"

"WORLD MARKETS SIGNAL DEPRESSION AHEAD"

AND WERE BACK ON THE CHART

As a circle forms on October 10th then travels the trend line

down even further to late October and stops.

And as a circle is formed around the date of October 27th,

we...

INT. 533 THIRD AVENUE/LOBBY- MORNING

Jacob gets off the elevator and sees Diego who doesn't say

anything.

Diego just shrugs...

Jacob softly nods and heads on his way.

INT. JACOB'S OFFICE - DAY

Jacob heads in to find Bretton waiting for him.

Jacob nods.

Bretton just looks at him.

And this hits Jacob like a ton of bricks...

Forcing out a smile...

INT. 655 PARK AVENUE/HALLWAY - NIGHT

As the LANDLORD walks down the hall with Jacob and Winnie.

The landlord nods and unlocks the apartment door for them...

INT. GEKKO'S APARTMENT - DAY

And they walk in to find the place completely empty.

Everything's gone save for one thing... that framed picture

of the woman filling her stove with money.

Jacob slowly walks over to the it and stares it down...

She joins his side...

And she turns to face him.

He sucks in a deep breath, then...

She takes off the "fuck you" ring...

... and places it into his palm.

INT. MILBANK, TWEED, HADLEY & MCCLOY OFFICES - MORNING

Hadley sits behind his desk.

Hadley just shrugs...

Jacob's stunned...

SLAM INTO/BUCHANAN NEW YORK

A sleepy town...

A rental car parks out front of a small bank. Jacob emerges

and heads for the bank...

And Jacob stops walking when he sees... a group of angry

depositors forming outside and a sign hanging in the

doorway... "Closed."

AND RIGHT BACK TO

Jacob and Hadley...

Confused...

And as that slams into Jacob Moore...

INT. BOEING 767 - NIGHT

As Jacob takes his seat and settles in for the long flight.

He's flying commercial... and in coach.

EXT. LONDON - DAY

It's raining and gray.

INT. REDMAYNE AND BENTLEY BROKERAGE - DAY

As Jacob walks the hallowed halls of this old school stock

brokerage with the MANAGER...

And with a killer smile...

INT. REDMAYNE AND BENTLEY BROKERAGE/RECORDS HALL - LATER

As Jacob looks over the old documents... trading ledgers from

twenty-five years ago.

Down the list we see him circle all the unusually large

successful trades. And then follow them to the client # on

the right side of the ledger.

And Jacob realizes it's the same client # every time. Client

#41.

Finally Jacob turns to the back of the ledger, to the client

key, where he moves the pencil down to client #41 and it

says... Gordon Gekko.

INT. IMPRESSIVE TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Jacob waits in the large entry hall... holding a cheap

umbrella he bought at Heathrow.

And down from the stairs walks...

INT. OLEG'S LIBRARY - NIGHT

Oleg sips his vodka and looks at Jacob.

Oleg lights a cigarette... exhaling the smoke with...

And Jacob leans forward...

INT. LONDON MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Darkness, until... a phone rings. Jacob wakes up and takes

it.

He moves to the curtains then opens them.

And the daylight spills in.

INT. OLEG'S LIBRARY - DAY

Oleg slides four encyclopedia-sized bounded stacks of

printouts across his desk.

Jacob nods, placing them into his bag.

And Oleg lights a cigarette... looks right at us...

excited... leaning forward with...

INT. 767 - DAY

As Jacob flies back to New York. He flips through the Locust

Fund trading ledgers, shaking his head in disbelief.

INT. WINNIE'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Winnie answers the door to find...

Walking back into the apartment...

Following her in...

Upset, she looks for her keys.

She just looks at him... shaking her head... and not in

disapproval... but in pity. But he keeps going.

As this washes over a stunned Winnie Gekko...

And Jacob confirms...

And he throws something on the table.

It's a copy of Portfolio Magazine with a picture of Gordon on

cover under the headline... "Guess Who's Back and Getting

Rich Betting Against You?"

Desperately trying to get her mind around this...

As this all washes over her...

And Winnie finds her keys and heads for the door...

... but Jacob steps in front of her.

And she just looks at him...

And before she reacts...

WERE BACK ON THE CHART

As a circle forms on Nov 6th then travels quite a ways then

finally stops. Unfortunately, this slope down the S&P

trendline is quite pronounced.

And as a circle is formed around Jan 24th 2009, we...

THE CABIN OF A BOEING 777

As Jacob opens up a copy of Barron's... Gekko on the cover

under the caption "What's His Next Move?"

AND BRETTON WOODS

In an official office of our Federal Reserve Bank, proudly

signing the documents...

AND ALONG THE BANKS OF THE PERSIAN GULF

Dubai in the background. Jacob waits against a bench.

And across the way he sees... approaching him... Gordon

Gekko.

Gordon nods.

Jacob's not arguing it...

Gordon laughs with a shake of the head.

And he just shakes his head...

Looking over the water...

And he turns to Jacob with a smile...

And Jacob stops walking then slowly turns to Gordon with...

Glaring at him...

And Gordon... strongly holding Jacob's glare... simply

replies...

Gordon sadly shrugs...

Gordon shakes his head.

And Jacob finally looks away... in pity.

Now walking again...

Joining Gordon's stride...

And Gordon stops walking.

And Jacob Moore... slowly confirming...

Gordon just looks at him.

And now Gordon shakes his head...

As Gordon turns... takes in the city of Dubai... in all of

its ridiculous splendor...

Considering that...

And Gordon looks at him for the longest moments, allowing it

all to register, then...

And as Gordon Gekko walks off... leaving Jacob Moore

behind...

AND RONALD REAGAN NATIONAL AIRPORT

As Jacob heads into the baggage claim area to see Winnie

waiting for him...

And as they embrace...

AND GORDON GEKKO

Being led through a massive empty space... office space...

The City of London outside the large windows...

This will be the home of his new international empire.

AND BRETTON WOODS

At his desk in his 15 CPW penthouse...

... looking over pages and pages of destruction... Andrew

Zabel's legacy that he now has to pay for...

And Bretton completely loses it... just starts ripping out

the pages then tearing them in two...

... methodically... page by page... over and over again...

AND GORDON GEKKO

Sitting in his massive London office.

It's empty. It's night. He's completely alone.

He looks up at the wall... at the framed picture of JP Morgan

and Uncle Sam rowing that boat.

Then he looks down at an old picture of Winnie... she's

probably three or four years old... and lovingly holding her

baby brother, Rudy.

And Gordon holds on this picture for a long moment, before

finally...

... picking up the phone.

AND GORDON GEKKO

Now in the back of a Town Car... we don't know where...

As the door opens, daylight spills in and we see the charging

bull of Bowling Green Park across the way...

Gordon is escorted out of the car and led to the doors of the

New York stock exchange.

And Gordon stops at the famed doors, takes a moment to regard

the exchange, sucks in a deep breath, readies for his hero's

welcome and finally... opens the doors then disappears

inside.

AND WINNIE AND JACOB

Greet the morning in their small Washington DC apartment.

Winnie pouring coffee, Jacob turning on the TV.

And on the screen is a picture of Gordon Gekko walking the

floor of the New York stock exchange under the graphic...

"Gekko Now Betting On A Recovery."

Sam Cooke's "A Change Is Gonna Come" kicks in.

And we go close on the Fox Business Channel's coverage of the

market's huge rally of an opening... with Gordon Gekko

ringing the bell... until the channel suddenly changes... to

the cartoon network... while we...

