INT. FRONT HALL - NIGHT

A large grandfather clock reads 3:00.

The sound of a key in the front door turns and Franklin

quietly enters. His hair is a mess and his clothing is

slightly askew.

As he comes through the hall two eyes shine in the darkness.

They belong to Eleanor sitting rigidly on a settee, listening

to the sound of Franklin's footsteps going up the stairs.

INT. UPPER LANDING - CONTINUING

Franklin goes into his bedroom. Eleanor quietly comes up the

stairs and stops for a brief moment by Franklin's door, then

goes off to her bedroom closing the door behind her.

INT. FRANKLIN'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Franklin lays sleeping in his bed as Eleanor enters quietly

so as not to wake him.

Carefully she picks up a set of keys on the dresser then

turns and notices a packet of letters sitting on top of an

open duffle bag.

Tentatively she reaches for them. She brings the packet, tied

with a piece of ribbon, up to her nose. She is shocked by

their familiar scent.

With trembling hands she unties the ribbon. Tears flood down

her cheeks as she reads.

Franklin opens his eyes.

EXT. HYDE PARK - DAY

Springwood is the three-story Roosevelt mansion. It is

surrounded by a thousand acres of forests, fields, bridal

paths and a glorious view of the Hudson River.

THE FIVE ROOSEVELT CHILDREN are screaming on the front lawn

playing a boisterous game of croquet.

INT. SPRINGWOOD - DINING ROOM - DAY

SARA ROOSEVELT, 65, sits at the head of the table. She is one

for whom the expression "Grande Dame" was coined.

Franklin is at the opposite end of the table, looking pale.

Louis, as always, is by his side.

Eleanor, like a prisoner who has accepted her fate, sits

across from them, calm and composed.

Eleanor rises from the table.

She begins to exit the room, but Franklin is up like a shot.

INT. ENTRY HALL - CONTINUOUS

Franklin chases Eleanor. Midway up the stairs, she turns.

She goes up the stairs without looking back.

INT. DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Franklin slowly walks back into the room.

Franklin turns away. He looks out the large picture window

and attempts to light a cigarette, but his hands shake.

Franklin sees his son, ELLIOT, 10, playing separately from

the rest of his siblings. Elliot looks up at his father as

Franklin bares his best politician's smile at him.

A ROAR begins to fill his ears. It becomes clearer that it is

the sound of a CROWD CHEERING.

INT. DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION HALL - SAN FRANCISCO - NIGHT

CONVENTIONEERS shout out Franklin's name holding up PLACARDS

emblazoned with:

Franklin BOLTS, running vigorously down the center aisle of

the hall lit by the circle of a spotlight. The CROWD goes

wild over this unconventional entrance.

W

final act of daring pushes the crowd into frenzy.

CLOSE UP - FRANKLIN

Smiling for no one. For everyone.

The CROWD roars back in reaction to his less-than-humble stance.

Franklin stands on the stage, the music rising, the crowd

cheering. Slowly, the sound of the convention fades to

something far more delicate...

INT. TEA ROOM - WASHINGTON, D.C. - AFTERNOON

A harp playing in an elegant tea room. The hushed tones of

polite conversation wafts through the air.

Franklin sits with his cousin, ALICE ROOSEVELT, 36, daughter

of Teddy. Brilliant and acerbic, she would have had a career

in politics had she been born a man.

She leans in conspiratorially.

EXT. STATEN ISLAND BOY SCOUT CAMP - DAY

Franklin, Louis and a PHOTOGRAPHER disembark from a touring car.

Franklin steps into a line before a large communal water

barrel and glances sideways at GUISEPPE, 9, an immigrant

child of the city streets. He wears his uniform proudly and

smiles at Franklin.

Franklin puts his arm around Guiseppe, forcing the moment

between them. He waits patiently as the cameras click away.

The SCOUTS begin washing their hands together in the water

barrel and Franklin joins in as Louis looks on admiringly.

As Guiseppe splashes some of the water on his face, Franklin,

not to be outdone, does so as well. It's all for the cameras.

ESTABLISHING SHOT - CAMPOBELLO ISLAND

EXT. ROOSEVELT SUMMER HOME - DAY

A large but unpretentious house with a sweeping lawn that

looks out over the icy waters of the Bay of Fundy.

EXT. PORCH - LATE AFTERNOON

Eleanor sits quietly on the front porch knitting -- in a

world of her own.

A few feet away -- also in a world of his own -- sits Louis,

overdressed for summer in a three piece suit. An overflowing

ashtray is by his side and piles of newspaper lie at his

feet.

He holds up a paper to Eleanor with the photo of Franklin and

the Boy Scouts.

Eleanor gives it a cursory glance then looks out to where

Franklin and the children come bounding up the lawn.

She goes into the house. Louis then hands Franklin letters.

Wearily, he sorts through the envelopes.

Franklin heads into the house leaning heavily against the

screen door struggling for control.

INT. SUN ROOM - DAY

Franklin lays on a chaise being examined by a DOCTOR, who

leans over him holding out his hand.

Franklin tries, but can't. Almost his entire body is

paralyzed. He can only breathe and blink.

The Doctor glances at Eleanor, Louis and Sara indicating they

should follow him out.

EXT. SCREENED PORCH - DAY

As the door from the sun room opens onto the porch, Elliot is

there waiting. Seeing them coming, he dashes off into the

yard so as not to be seen as Eleanor, Louis, Sara and the

Doctor enter.

Sara sinks into a chair.

EXT. BUSHES - CONTINUING

Eleanor finds Elliot, having heard everything, curled up in a

ball, weeping. She leans down and wraps her arms around him.

INT. BEDROOM - WEEKS LATER

CLOSE-UP - WALLPAPER

A pink background covered in small white flowers with red

centers and green leaves. There is a seam in the paper. A

tiny white spot where glue has soaked through.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL - Franklin in bed.

This is all he stares at -- hour after hour after hour.

His lips are dry.

A glass of water sits tantalizingly on the night stand. He

reaches for it but it's a few inches out of his reach.

Slowly, he begins to rock his torso back and forth.

INT. HYDE PARK - PARLOR - CONTINUOUS

Sara, Eleanor and Louis are in heated conversation.

Sara leaves as Eleanor goes after her.

INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Franklin, still rocking his torso, has now gained some

momentum, managing to have moved just a few inches.

INT. SUN ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Sara busies herself arranging flowers.

Sara stares at Eleanor in disbelief. Eleanor stares back --

unflinching.

INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Franklin reaches his arm towards the glass only to fall from

the bed to the floor with a thud. Frustrated beyond words,

Franklin lunges at his wheelchair and shoves it across the

floor letting out an anguished cry.

In agony, from both the pain and the humiliation, he stares

up and fixes his gaze on the ornate ceiling overhead.

Then, closing his eyes, a POUNDING in his head starts to get

louder and louder --

INT. BOAT - DAY - BACK TO PRESENT

Franklin, on his back, his face and body drenched with sweat,

is asleep in his bunk in the boat. He awakens to the sound of

the POUNDING. Voices are calling him accompanied by FISTS

smashing at the door. He opens his eyes and is disoriented.

He tries to sit up -- momentarily forgetting that he can't.

H

of his crippled legs. BONES covered by FLESH with barely an

ounce of muscle.

Finally the door BURSTS open.   Two young crewman, EUGENE and

STANLEY enter.

He lifts Franklin over his shoulder. Stanley grabs clothes and

pulls a set of long iron leg braces from a hook off the wall.

Eugene grabs a bucket and holds Franklin up to urinate.

Stripped to his underwear Franklin is laid across the bunk.

Eugene kneels and puts on Franklin's socks and shoes. Then he

and Stanley slide on his braces and pants.

Their hands zipper, clasp, buckle and tie. Each hand works in

synchronicity with the other.

Clumsily they lift Franklin up, struggling under his weight.

EXT. BOAT - DAY

Eugene and Stanley carry Franklin off in the driving rain.

INT. DINER OFF THE FLORIDA COAST - DAY

Kerosene lamps light the diner which is filled with people,

mostly fishermen, seeking refuge from the coming storm.

Franklin, soaked-to-the-skin and wrapped in a blanket, is

being pushed through the door by Eugene in a wheelchair.

The restaurant collectively pauses to take them.

INT. A TRAIN CAR - DAY

Franklin and Eleanor sit next to one another. Franklin is now

shaved and cleaned up considerably.

However, the tension between them is palpable. Eleanor knits

furiously while talking. Franklin looks out the window at

African-American FIELD HANDS hard at work in the red clay

hills of Georgia.

Franklin observes two YOUNG BOYS, African-American, running

alongside the slow-moving train.

F         same cold.

takes off his hat and wipes his brow in the hot sun.

She looks over at Franklin and sees that he is staring out the

window, deep in thought -- not having heard a word she's said.

EXT. BULLOCHVILLE TRAIN STATION - GEORGIA - DAY

TOM LOYLESS, 39, stands waiting by a car dressed in a white

suit. Laconic, with a dry sense of humor, Tom is a man of few

words whose poker face hides a true desperation. He holds a

telegram from Franklin in his hand.

As the train pulls in Tom looks for Franklin among the

passengers making their exit.

There are two different exits on the platform clearly marked

WHITE and COLORED. Whites exit from the front of the train

and Blacks from the rear.

LIONEL PURDY, tiny, and dressed in a mailman's uniform,

approaches Tom. Of indeterminate age and dubious intellect,

his mail bag is almost as big as he is.

The STATIONMASTER approaches.

EXT. A TRAIN CAR - DAY

Franklin exits the train slung in a fireman's carry over the

shoulder of ROY COLLIER, African-American, 29. His brother

PETE, 27, is close behind, carrying luggage -- both hover at

around 6' 4".

Tom approaches. Franklin attempts to hide his embarrassment

with good cheer.

Still in the fireman's carry, Franklin extends his hand for

Tom to shake.

Roy then carries him over to Tom's car and gingerly places

him inside. Pete follows.

EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Tom drives Franklin in front, Eleanor sits in the back.

Pine trees tower over the sides of the dirt road. In

occasional clearings, Franklin spies barefoot children

playing out in front of broken-down shacks. They stop their

play to look at the car.

They BANG over a large pothole. They all fly up and land hard.

EXT. THE MERIWETHER INN - DAY

Tom's car turns into a driveway. Franklin has a brochure for

"The Meriwether Inn" opened in his lap. He tries to spy the

building through the trees but cannot.

He looks back at the brochure. The picture is of a lavish

Victorian Hotel and the words, "Our renowned mineral hot

springs can cure whatever ails you!"

Franklin looks up and sees a three-story hideous green and

yellow monstrosity leaning slightly to one side. Paint is

peeling everywhere. What once were flower beds are overgrown

with weeds.

The car pulls to a stop.

Franklin puts out his arm preventing Tom from getting out of

the car.

Tom's southern manners are being put to the test, but he

stays remarkably calm.

Franklin blinks incomprehensibly at Tom and what he has just

said.

They lock eyes. Franklin wonders if Tom's bluffing, but he

can't tell.

EXT. MERIWETHER INN GROUNDS - DAY

Tom's car is now parked in front of a group of small

cottages. Roy and Pete's horse drawn wagon is behind it.

EXT. COTTAGE - DAY

Tom and Pete open a set of shutters over the windows of a

tiny cottage.

Franklin and Eleanor sit in the car, watching.

INT. COTTAGE - DAY

Sheets cover the furniture, cobwebs span the beams and dust

particles fill the air.

As Tom maneuvers the wheelchair through the front door,

Franklin notices a broken window.

Roy enters with a suitcase.

He looks after Roy as he exits.

He tips his hat and goes outside.

EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY

Pete, alone, drives the wagon past the Inn and out onto the

road.

INT. COTTAGE - DAY

Eleanor stands in the middle of the tiny living room stunned

by the squalor. She speaks to Franklin who is changing in the

other room.

Franklin is wheeled out by Roy, now changed into a bathing

suit.

EXT. A DIRT PATH - DAY

Roy wheels Franklin while Tom walks in front of them leading

the way.

Franklin takes in the surroundings. Deserted horse stables in

total ruin and tennis courts covered with underbrush mar the

landscape.

EXT. POOL - DAY

An immense, T-shaped pool rimmed in concrete. The bluish

water is clear and sparkling and a delicate steam rises out

of the warmth.

A

comes to the edge of the pool and coaxes her CHILDREN out of

the water.

AUNT SALLY, an ancient, gaunt, African American woman, stands

guard by the edge of the water.

Roy wheels Franklin as close to the rim of the pool as

possible. Tom lends his assistance and both he and Roy HOIST

Franklin out of the chair and place him at the edge, letting

his feet dangle in the warm water.

Twisting on his massive arms, Franklin lowers himself cautiously.

Franklin's legs flop as his useless feet touch the shallow

bottom. Crushed, all hope drains from his face.

EXT. CABIN - NIGHT

Roy sleeps on a couch on the front porch. Crickets hum.

INT. CABIN - CONTINUING

Eleanor tosses and turns on a roll away bed.

INT. CABIN BEDROOM - CONTINUING

Franklin lies in bed staring up at the ceiling.

INT. MERIWETHER INN - DINING ROOM - DAY

A handful of guests are spread out in a huge dining room.

Franklin and Eleanor sit together. He is eating heartily, but

Eleanor merely moves her food around.

Eleanor sizes Franklin up. She knows this is a preamble.

Eleanor folds her napkin and gets up from the table.

EXT. COTTAGE DRIVEWAY - DAY

Pete helps Eleanor into his livery wagon.

Franklin watches from the porch as Eleanor rides away. Her

suitcase slides across the open wagon bed, as the wagon makes

the tight turn from the driveway onto the main road.

ON ELEANOR

Looking out -- straight ahead.

ON FRANKLIN

Alone and scared as he watches the wagon fade from sight.

INT. HYDE PARK - DAY

Eleanor is pouring tea for Louis, who is seated.

Her pent-up tears burst in a free-flow. Louis leads her to a

nearby settee and hands her his handkerchief.

Louis smiles, knowingly.

EXT. COTTAGES - SUNSET

The row of abandoned cottages look strangely pretty, aglow in

the setting sun.

EXT. COTTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Franklin is seated on the ramshackle porch in his chair. His

cigarette hangs from his lip as he mixes martinis in a glass

milk bottle. He pours one for Tom, then himself.

They clink their glasses. Tom takes a polite sip, then chokes

back the bad taste.

Franklin takes another sip, checking. It tastes fine to him.

INT. COTTAGE - MORNING

Franklin's bed is already empty.

EXT. POOL - MORNING

Aunt Sally is seated, talking with Roy while Franklin lies on

his back in the water, swimming. All his movement comes from

his shoulders and arms. The morning sun streams down on him.

Tom sits off to one side reading the newspaper.

Franklin holds the edge of the pool, closing his eyes.

For a long moment there is silence. Almost without realizing

it, Franklin lets go of the edge of the pool.

When he opens his eyes -- he is standing -- all by himself in

the water.

His laughter gets stronger. Tom, Aunt Sally and Roy look on.

The release is powerful as Franklin dissolves into tears.

EXT. COTTAGE PORCH - EVENING

Tom, who's been mixing cocktails, hands Franklin a drink and

lifts his glass.

They clink and drink.

Lionel, the mailman, comes down the path carrying a

flashlight, reading an open letter.

He hands the letter to Franklin who immediately begins

reading.

Lionel takes the letter Franklin just handed him, opens it,

flicks his flashlight back on and continues on his way.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Louis and Eleanor approach a set of double doors.

They enter the room.

INT. MEETING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

At a lectern, behind which a banner reads "LEAGUE OF WOMEN

VOTERS," the CHAIRWOMAN sees them and waves them forward.

A small crowd of about two dozen women offer up polite, but

scant applause for Eleanor.

A PHOTOGRAPHER snaps a picture which throws Eleanor off.

Eleanor looks to Louis who nods.

EXT. POOL - DAY

Franklin is attempting to walk in the water, working

diligently. Tom watches him from a few paces back.

Franklin looks at Tom knowing full well he's arranged this.

EXT. FRANKLIN'S COTTAGE - FRONT PORCH - DAY

Franklin is seated -- but not in his wheelchair. He wears

long pants even though it's blisteringly hot.

CLEBURNE GREGORY, 28, sits across from Franklin -- a second

string reporter in a three-piece suit.

H

Gregory looks at Franklin. It's clear he's not going to get

the interview he came for.

INT. COTTAGE - NIGHT

Franklin is laid out on the bed as Roy slides the braces off

his legs. Roy unlaces his shoes and slips them off his feet.

for Roy to hand them to him.

Still flat on his back, Franklin luxuriates in the rich

leather cobbled by hand. He examines their smooth, immaculate

soles... worn but never walked in.

INT. COTTAGE - MORNING

A newspaper clipping of Eleanor in her speech to the League

is taped to the wall.

We hear the sound of an Underwood typewriter clacking away

and Franklin's voice, dictating.

EXT. SCHOOLHOUSE - DAY

A small breeze or a decent rain would knock it to the ground.

INT. SCHOOLROOM - CONTINUOUS

A bookshelf with four books.

A few FARMERS and their WIVES sit with large groups of filthy

children. They look at Franklin askance.

Prendergast stands proudly beside three GRADUATES-TO-BE.

Tom stands in the back observing.

Franklin, in his wheelchair, sits uncomfortably before the

gathering. He notices a FATHER staring at his legs.

A fly begins buzzing around his head. He laughs derisively,

almost to himself.

He looks up and catches the glazed eyes of an undernourished

child which unsettles him.

H

He stares at his tiny audience, all of whom know something

about circumstances beyond their control.

Horrified and unable to speak, Franklin seems temporarily

lost, but the tiny audience doesn't seem to notice. They just

see Franklin.

INT. TOM'S AUTOMOBILE - DAY

Tom is losing his patience.

They continue to drive in silence.

EXT. POOL - DAY

It's a cold day and Franklin is swimming in the pool.

Roy is wearing a sweater. Aunt Sally is there, too, wearing a

patched up coat with a scarf around her neck. Tom is nearby

raking leaves.

Franklin ignores them and dips under the water as Tom comes

over.

Franklin comes up from under.

Franklin looks at Tom, then at Roy and Aunt Sally,

acknowledging.

The sound of a TRAIN WHISTLE is heard.

INT. HYDE PARK, NEW YORK- LIVING ROOM - DAY

The WHISTLE is coming from a MODEL TRAIN as it zooms around a

track set up on a table in the Roosevelt living room. Elliot,

now 15, is mesmerized.

Sara sits at a piano between FRANKLIN, JR., 9, and JOHN, 7.

They are finishing a rousing rendition of "Angels We Have

Heard on High" as an enormous Christmas tree gets decorated.

JAMES, 18, is at the top of a ladder while his sister, ANNA,

19, decorates from the lowest rung.

Eleanor holds up a tiny porcelain ornament to Anna.

Franklin, working from his wheelchair is filling out the

lower branches of the tree, his lap filled with ornaments.

Anna looks over at her father, sadly and Franklin catches her

eye. She quickly looks away.

From behind his back, John, pulls out the Christmas star and

places it on his father's knee.

Silence descends over the room. No one dares to breathe.

Franklin tosses the star in an attempt to reach the top. It

almost catches, but it falls to the floor.

Quickly, aiding to avoid his father's embarrassment, James

climbs back up and puts the star on top. Sara sensing the

awkwardness of the moment begins to play and sing an overly

cheery rendition of "Hark! The Herald Angels Sing."

INT. STUDY - LATER

Roy is spotting Franklin as he pulls himself along a set of

parallel bars. Eleanor observes as Franklin uses his arms to

drag his legs behind him.

Eleanor is flushed with pride. Franklin, catching her look,

slips slightly on the bars as Roy grabs hold of him.

Franklin then takes note that Eleanor's expression has turned

to one of pure heartbreak.

Roy turns Franklin around on the bars and they begin walking

away from Eleanor.

EXT. COTTAGE - DAY

Franklin is being lifted out of Pete's wagon by Roy and

placed into his wheelchair. He sees Tom approaching.

The smile on Franklin's face slips to a look of shock as he

takes in Tom's changed appearance. His face is sallow and his

trademark white suit is hanging on him.

Roy carries the luggage into the cottage.

A silence hangs in the air.

EXT. POOL - DAY

Franklin now dressed in his bathing suit is being wheeled by

Roy. Tom follows.

As they get closer, Franklin is stunned by what he sees --

A DOZEN PEOPLE -- all in different groupings -- some on

crutches, others in wheelchairs, are gathered around the

pool.

Franklin looks up at Tom, dumbfounded.

H

This news hits Franklin with the force of a sledgehammer.

PAT DOYLE, 50, is stuffed into his wheelchair with a huge

cigar between his fat lips.

Franklin.

He reaches out his hand to Franklin.

Franklin is uncomfortable, especially as Pat won't let go of

his hand.

Franklin looks to Tom and gestures for him to come closer.

EXT. MERIWETHER INN - GROUNDS - DAY

Franklin is pushing the chair himself along the dirt path,

his anger propelling F

EXT. BULLOCHVILLE TRAIN STATION - DAY

Franklin, in his wheelchair, smokes a cigarette. His bags are

next to him, as is Roy. A train's whistle BLOWS and pulls in.

Franklin sees someone else on the platform. He squints in the

distance. It's Tom.

He walks closer towards Franklin and Roy.

Franklin nods in Tom's general direction. Tom has a telegram

in his hand which peaks Franklin's curiosity.

The train comes to a complete stop. A CONDUCTOR steps out

onto the platform. A single ELDERLY WOMAN gets off the train.

EXT. BAGGAGE CAR - DAY

Tom, Franklin and Roy are in front of the large door as the

Conductor pushes it back slowly.

INT. BAGGAGE CAR - DAY

Amongst crates and luggage is FRED BOTTS, a young man of

fifteen lying on the floor, unconscious. A wheelchair is next

to him, turned over on its side.

Tom leaps up and into the car as does Roy leaving Franklin

below. Tom takes his wrist.

EXT. STATION PLATFORM - DAY

Roy lays Fred on a bench. Franklin wheels himself over.

Tom brings a cup of water. Franklin puts it to Fred's lips.

Fred opens his eyes. They are large and brown with a

sweetness to them. His face comes alive when he recognizes

Franklin.

H

The headline reads: "FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT SWIMS HIS WAY TO HEALTH!"

Franklin looks at the clipping, then at Fred.

The train whistle BLOWS.

Franklin looks at Fred, then at Roy and Tom.

INT. COTTAGE - NIGHT

Fred lays in Franklin's bed while Franklin sits by the

bedside. Roy lays a cold compress on Fred's forehead.

F

Roy pulls back the sheet to give Fred air revealing his

withered legs. Alabaster skin stretched over bones.

Franklin looks away.

INT. COTTAGE - DAY

Franklin sits at a card table with his check book in front of

him. Tom stands before him, shifting uncomfortably.

Franklin opens the check book and begins writing.

EXT. COTTAGE - NIGHT

Franklin is in his wheelchair, writing.

INT. HYDE PARK - DAY

Eleanor sits in a chair reading Franklin's letter.

INT. COTTAGE - NIGHT

Franklin is tucking Fred in for the night.

Franklin howls with laughter, joined by Fred.

EXT. POOL - DUSK

Franklin is in the pool with the new guests. They are all

nervously waiting to test the water.

From the looks on their faces it's clear they only want to

take their cues from Franklin.

A MOTHER carries her adorable 4 year old GIRL into the water.

Daisy wiggles back and forth in her MOTHER's arms giving it

her very best effort.

JAKE PERRINI, 32, Bronx-born with an upper body of steel

wheels over to Roy who is fixing a wheelchair.

Jake reaches out his hand to shake. Roy is unsure what to do.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Tom oversees the dinner service of paying guests -- none of

whom have disabilities.

INT. BACK ROOM - NIGHT

Segregated in a back room, all the polio guests are gathered

for dinner seated around a couple of sawhorses with old doors

thrown across them serving as makeshift dining tables.

Roy carries DAISY in and places her in the chair next to

Franklin.

She begins to giggle. It's infectious and soon everyone has a

smile on their face, overriding the awkwardness of the

situation.

Franklin bows his head for grace.

EXT. FACTORY - DAY

With Louis in tow, Eleanor is touring the exterior of an

ironworks factory. She is the only woman in a large gathering

of men.

EXT. BUILDING - DAY

LEAGUE." She is passing out pamphlets to a small crowd that

has gathered.

INT. NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY - DAY

Eleanor is being introduced by Louis to members of the New

York State Assembly -- all men -- eager to shake her hand.

EXT. POOL - DAY

Franklin is in the water. Roy lifts Fred out of his

wheelchair and gently puts him in the shallow end. Franklin

receives him. Fred's face is ecstatic as he floats on his

back in the water.

EXT. MERIWETHER INN - DAY

A very old car comes coughing in, steam hissing from its

engine.

HELENA MAHONEY, 43, gets out of the driver's seat. Her iron

will is matched only by her deep reserves of empathy. She

gets a good look at the Inn. This is what she has come for?

EXT. COTTAGE PORCH - DAY

Franklin and Roy, having finished lunch, are playing

checkers. Fred is sitting nearby eating a piece of pie.

Helena approaches. Roy pulls off a triple jump.

Roy trounces Franklin with three swift moves.

Helena sits at the table with them.

EXT. MERIWETHER INN - DAY

Helena is wheeling Franklin around the grounds.

INT. A BARN - DAY

Franklin lies across a makeshift examining table. Helena's

examination is in progress.

She is completely absorbed -- all business -- pouring over

his muscles inch by inch. She kneads, bends and stretches

them with a laser-like focus, finally picking up Franklin's

leg and rotating it out and around.

Franklin, with difficulty, tries to do so.

EXT. MERIWETHER INN - DAY

Tom is pushing Franklin in his wheelchair.

INT. TOM'S OFFICE   - DAY

Franklin sits in his chair at a desk.

Tom is pacing back and forth

EXT. MERIWETHER INN - MAIN ENTRANCE - DAY

Helena is training a group of YOUNG MEN how to lift and carry

using a raven haired young woman, ELOISE HUTCHISON, 18, as

the test model. She sits shyly in her wheelchair before them.

WOODHALL BUSEY, 17, has bright red hair and a face full of

freckles. Over six feet tall he has spent his life working in

the fields.          W

He picks Eloise up effortlessly, then sets her back down.

Woodhall kneels before Eloise like Prince Charming, carefully

straightening out her legs.

He notices the long jagged scars along Eloise's wrists.

Eloise, sensing his eyes, self-consciously pulls down her

sleeves. He stares at her questioningly.

Tom and Franklin come out. Franklin gives a questioning look

to Helena, pondering how these boys have suddenly appeared.

Franklin is smiling like the cat that ate the canary.

INT. COTTAGE - EVENING

A free wheeling game of poker. Heavy with cigarette and cigar

smoke, Franklin, Tom, Fred, Jake and Pat are playing.

Fred and Pat fold immediately as does Franklin.

They eyeball each other. Gunfight at the O.K. Corral.

Gleefully, Jake slaps his hands together and rakes in the pot.

Everyone groans.

EXT. MERIWETHER INN - GROUNDS - DAWN

The sun is about to rise. Tom's car is parked in front of the

Inn, pulled up very close to the main entrance. The trunk is

open.

Any guard Franklin had is gone. He reaches out and takes Tom

by the sleeve slipping his hand into Tom's gripping it tightly.

Tom takes one last look at Franklin.

Tom gets into his car and looks at Franklin with a smile.

With a wave he slowly lurches down the long driveway and

turns onto the main road. Franklin watches the car until it

is out of sight.

INT. HYDE PARK, NEW YORK - LIBRARY - DAY

Sara paces wildly, waving a letter at Eleanor and Louis.

Sara looks away.

They all look at each other for a moment. For once they agree.

EXT. MERIWETHER INN - DAY

Fred, on crutches, swings himself up using one side and then

the next under Helena's supervision.

