FADE IN:

Moving through a murky haze.  Dark blues and greens, shafts

of prismed purple.  A pale shard appears in the distance.

Gliding closer, a group of tiny fish dart before the camera.

We're UNDERWATER.  Arriving at the form, it finally sharpens

into focus.  It's a WOMAN'S BODY submerged in dark water,

arms floating lazily at her side.  The face is obscured by

flowing hair.  All that is visible is a pair of COLD, STARING

GREEN EYES, which blink closed...

...then open as BLUE EYES, as a DIFFERENT FACE emerges from

water.  CLAIRE SPENCER awakens from this unsettling dream in

her bathtub.  She pivots the large BRASS SHOWER HEAD (the

kind that moves up and down on a pipe) off to one side,

reaches toward her feet and we hear the sound of a plug being

pulled.

INT.  BATHROOM - DAY

A HAZY SHAPE-- accompanied by a whirring sound.

A steam covered mirror is cleared with a BLOW DRYER.  Claire

starts to come into focus.  The dryer stops.  She presses the

red G.F.I. button on the socket.  ZAP!  A big blue spark

shoots out.  Claire pulls her hand back...and the dryer

starts whirring again.

She clears the mirror and replaces the dryer on a hook.  She

regards herself in the mirror, and attractive, elegant-

looking woman around forty.

Claire traces a finger along a small but noticeable SCAR

above her left eye, then slowly drops the hand to her cheek,

as if confirming her existence.

INT.  CLAIRE'S HOUSE - DAY

Claire, now dressed, presses her face against a door,

listening for the sounds of stirring from within.  Silence.

She quietly pushes open the door.

INT.  ROOM - DAY

Claire makes her way past half-filled boxes and duffels to a

window, then pulls the curtains to reveal:

A LOVELY, WOODED LAKE.  It couldn't be more picturesque.  A

24' SAILBOAT is moored at the dock and an OLD STONE

LIGHTHOUSE sits on a point across the lake.

The sunlight motivates an unconscious groan from A FIGURE

still shrouded by covers.

Claire sits beside the sleeping form.  She scans the room

briefly, taking in a Greenpeace flag and a picture of a

tomboyish ten year-old girl at camp.

She gently pulls back the covers and peers down at the same

face, now a waifish, pretty seventeen year-old, with chopped

hair and tiny nose ring.  Claire leans over and inhales the

sleeping scent of her only daughter, CAITLIN.  She places her

hand on a cheek.  The girl's eyelids flutter softly.

Caitlin lets out a grunt and rolls over onto her belly.

From out of the pillow comes Caitlin's voice.

Claire glances around at the piles of unpacked clothes.

Claire gently swats at the tiny lump that is Caitlin's

behind.

Claire stands and instinctively scoops up some clothes from

the floor, then folds and neatly stacks them on a box.

Caitlin turns her head sideways on the pillow.

Claire turns at the door.

She starts to leave.  Caitlin calls out.

Claire smiles as she closes the door behind her.

INT.  HALLWAY - DAY

Claire bends down to pick up one of Caitlin's socks.  When

she stands, something catches her eye out a window.  She

gazes down, transfixed.

ANGLE

Through a stand of trees over a HIGH WOODEN FENCE, A YOUNG

COUPLE is in the midst of a heated argument next door.

Claire watches as the HUSBAND, a large imposing man with an

unruly shock of red hair, snarls at his wife across the hood

of their huge old Buick.  She tries to get a glimpse of the

woman, but all that's visible is THE BACK OF HER BLOND HEAD.

A TAN, SINEWY ARM encircles Claire's waist.  She lets out a

small gasp as a hand closes on her breast.  It's Claire's

husband, DR. NORMAN SPENCER, nibbling gently at her neck.

He's older than she, pushing fifty, with silver streaks

beginning to permeate the shaggy mop of hair that makes him

look more like a preppy rocker or a lacrosse coach than the

prominent academic that he is.  Claire, however, can't take

her eyes off the scene below.

Claire nods.

She continues to gaze downward.  The man leans over the hood,

murmuring darkly at his wife, though for Claire and Norman

the scene is entirely silent.

Outside, Mr. Feur turns and walks toward his house.  Norman

begins, once again, to nuzzle Claire.  Her eyes close, but

then she gently demurs.

She turns to him.

He smiles.  A really good smile.  The lips and tongue on his

faded T-shirt mark him as a 'Stones fan.

Norman gives up.  He busses her cheek.

Norman stops.

She smiles at him.  After a beat:

They share a warm, poignant look.  He turns and moves down

the stairs.

Claire returns her gaze to the scene below as Mr. Feur says

something ominous to his wife, then stalks into the house.

ANGLE

Mrs. Feur drops her face into her hands.

EXT.  SIDEWALK CAFE - DAY

Claire peruses her "to do" list as Caitlin munches a panini.

Caitlin puts down the sandwich and regards her mother warmly.

The bond between them is palpable.

Claire looks up from her little pad of paper.

Claire smiles.

Caitlin smiles back and nods, her face betraying some

concern.  Claire takes her hand.

She nods reassuringly and pulls Caitlin into an embrace.  Her

eyes close.

EXT.  COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - DAY

Claire's frozen in the hug.

Her eyes open.  Widen to reveal Claire, holding Caitlin on

the college campus.  The URBAN SKYLINE looms in the

background.

After a moment's hesitation, she releases her grip.  Caitlin

glances over her shoulder to make sure no one's witnessed

this overt display of maternal affection.

Claire produces an ENVELOPE, which she presses into her

daughter's hand.  It's a book of TRAIN TICKETS.

Caitlin looks at Norman.

She nods.  They share a tender look.

She throws her arm, briefly, tightly around his waist.  A bit

overwhelmed, he slowly brings his hand to the back of

Caitlin's head.  After a moment, she steps back...

...then turns and makes her way toward the large, old

Columbia dorm.  A banner is draped across its portals which

reads:

Claire watches her daughter melt into a crowd of similarly

shaggy freshmen, smoking and talking on the front steps.  Her

eyes are shining.  Norman wraps an arm around her waist as

she daps at a tear with a Kleenex.

They turn and head for the car.  Claire sneaks one last look

over her shoulder.

ANGLE

Caitlin glancing back at Claire with an apprehensive smile.

INT.  NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Claire walks in from the bathroom wearing a sexy cotton

nightgown.  Norman is in bed, absorbed in some notes.

She gets into bed, then picks up a thick text from beside him

and starts reading.  After a moment:

Claire snuggles up.

She pulls slightly away.

He places his book on the bedside table and turns to her.

Claire thinks for a moment.

He caresses her.

There's a weighty pause.

He kisses her.

They start to kiss.  It's slow and a bit methodical in the

manner of long time lovers.  Suddenly, the SOUND OF A WOMAN

WAILING can be heard.  They stop.

They listen.  The sounds start to become louder.  It is

clearly two people in the throes of some very vocal and

savage love making.

He walks over and closes the window.  It doesn't help.

The woman's moaning becomes embarrassingly loud.

They lie together in silence as the cacophony drones on.

Beat.  The mood has passed.

Beat.

She smiles.

They lie together in the darkness as the Feurs finally

climax.

INT.  CAITLIN'S ROOM - DAY

Claire pushes open the door to Caitlin's room carrying an

armful of FOLDED LAUNDRY.  She moves quickly to the bureau,

not wanting to spend much time in here, then grabs a TINY

BLACK TOP from the pile, and drops it into a drawer.  She's

just about to close it, when something catches her eye.

CLAIRE'S POV

She drops the laundry and slowly pulls a tattered, old

JUILLIARD T-SHIRT with a very seventies logo from the drawer.

Claire gazes around the room, which is a reliquary of

Caitlin's recently concluded childhood; PICTURES, TROPHIES,

STUFFED ANIMALS.

She brings the now faded T-shirt to her face and drinks in

the smells.  She stares down at the word "Juilliard."

INT.  BASEMENT - DAY

"JUILLIARD"...now it's on the same T-shirt only Claire's

wearing it and she's much younger.  It's an old photograph in

an album.  Younger Norman stands next to her in the shot, his

arm draped around her waist.  A CELLO CASE stands beside her.

Claire glances around at several hastily unpacked boxes and

sees propped in the corner...THE CELLO CASE.  She gazes at

other photos.

-- Claire in her wedding dress, Norman beside her in a tux

-- Claire and Norman in front of a UNIVERSITY BUILDING.  A

Claire's chin begins to tremble and she chokes out a sob.

EXT.  FRONT YARD - DAY

Her face streaked with tears, Claire stumbles out into the

immaculately manicured ROSE GARDEN.

The yard is surrounded by a HIGH WOODEN FENCE.  She collapses

into a lawn chair as the tears begin to subside.  Suddenly,

she hears something coming from next door.

She cocks her head and attempts to make out the sound.  It

is, ironically, the sound of a WOMAN CRYING.  Claire makes

her way over to the fence.  The women's sobbing becomes more

plaintive and fevered.

She places her face against the prickly, vine covered fence

and tries to peer through the crack.  All she can make out is

A DARK BLUE BLUR that seems to be rocking.  Claire gathers

her nerve and calls out...

There's no reaction.

The sobbing chokes down to a breathless whimpering.  The blue

shape vanishes from view.

Something bumps against the fence.  Claire draws back.  She

hears heavy breathing.

Claire leans closer to the tiny crack.  She sees a fleshy

blur and what might be part of an eye.  There's no response,

just the breathing.

She seems on the verge of losing it again.

She trails off.

Claire edges closer to the crack.

Beat.  Claire's taken aback by this admission.

Tires can be heard crunching the gravel as a car pulls into

the Feur's driveway.

Claire listens to the sound of NAKED FOOTSTEPS, followed by a

LARGE FRONT DOOR swinging shut.  A CAR DOOR swings open and a

MAN'S SHOES follow down the path.

Claire pulls back from the crack and leans against the fence

as the door closes a second time.  She sits there for a

moment listening, but all is quiet.

INT.  DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Claire and Norman eat dinner.  A rainstorm pelts the windows.

Norman chews.

Norman puts down his fork.

She glances down at her untouched plate.

He gives her a "Didn't I just say so" look.  She smiles.

She reaches for his plate to clear it.  Norman grabs her hand

and kisses it.

INT.  NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Norman snores softly.  Claire is awakened by the continuing

STORM.  She pads out to Norman's turreted library.  Rain

pelts the glass.  Her face is briefly illuminated by the

LIGHTHOUSE BEAM.

She hears the sound of a DOOR CLOSING and moves to get a

better view of the Feur's.  Nothing but blackness.  Just as

she's turning to go back to bed.  A LIGHTNING FLASH lights up

the night.  Claire's eyes go wide.

CLAIRE'S POV

In the split second of brilliance, she sees Mr. Feur, in

shirtsleeves, drenched, dragging A LARGE DUFFEL toward the

open trunk of his car.

He's dead to the world.  She calls to him again.

Another flash illuminates...Norman at her side.

...an EMPTY DRIVEWAY, then blackness.

She stares down into the darkness.

THE BEACON illuminates the empty driveway.  She nods.

Yet another bolt of lightning reveals Claire, still at the

window.

EXT.  BACKYARD - MORNING

Claire sets up a camera and tripod.  She steps back and aims

her camera.  She glances up at a large upstairs window at the

FEUR'S HOUSE.  One side of the curtain seems to be pulled

open, but no one's there.

Feeling self-conscious, she turns back to the camera.  The

morning sun hits the flowers just right and she SNAPS SEVERAL

PICTURES OF THEM against her lovely house.

She glances back at the Feur's window.  The CURTAIN IS NOW

CLOSED.

She walks over to the fence and tries to peek through it.

When this doesn't work, she drags a lawn chair over and peers

across the fence.  She can barely see over, but glimpses:

A DEEP FURROW in the mud of the driveway.  Just then, a car

pulls into the driveway, Claire scrambles down from her

perch.

EXT.  DRIVEWAY - DAY

Claire walks out to find her best friend, JODY, pretty, in

her forties, wearing hip, hippie-ish clothes.

Jody hugs her.

She proffers several homemade tea bags.

Claire gives her friend the once over, then notices the mint

Karman-Ghia behind her.

Jody grins.

Jody drives off.  Claire walks down the driveway to her front

door and sees Mr. Feur staring at her from a window.  She

starts to wave, but the curtain is drawn shut.

Claire arrives at the front door and reaches out to touch the

doorknob.  She stops.  A FAINT RUSTLING can be heard from

within.  Claire quietly opens the door and moves into:

INT.  FOYER - DAY

Claire stops inside the door.  Now it sounds like WHISPERING.

Two voices, tense, impassioned.  It seems to be coming from

Norman's study.  She gathers her nerve, then bursts into the

room.

INT.  NORMAN'S STUDY - DAY

But the whispering has suddenly stopped.

The lovely circular room is completely empty.  She looks

around, puzzled.  Cooper, the family's aging lab, casually

ambles over.

EXT.  LAKE - DAY

Claire and Cooper, out on a walk, emerge onto large rocks at

the water's edge.  Claire tosses a long stick for Cooper, who

bolts out onto the LONG WOODEN DOCK.  Claire gazes at the

LIGHTHOUSE across the lake and a long BRIDGE in the distance.

Cooper starts BARKING and looking down into the water.

Claire arrives at Cooper's side and stares down into the dark

water.

She looks down and sees nothing but her own reflection.

After a moment, she notices a FAINT WHITE SHAPE directly in

the reflection of her face.  Cooper rumbles a low growl.  The

shape seems to be gaining definition.

RRRING!

Claire gasps quietly, then reaches into a pocket in her

sweater and pulls out a cordless phone.

Claire's smile fades.

Claire slowly leans out over the water to check her

reflection...

...but the shape is gone.

She clicks off the phone and looks down at the calm water.

INT.  WORK ROOM - NIGHT

Claire sits in a small workroom at a computer.  She focuses

intently on the screen.

ANGLE

It's ALICE'S COMPUTER SOLITAIRE.  She flips the last card and

an animated Queen of Hearts, accompanied by a series of

musical notes, parades across the screen.

Claire hits "New Game" and watches as a fresh hand of cyber

solitaire is dealt.  She suddenly has a thought and

disappears into the kitchen.

INT.  KITCHEN - NIGHT

She glances at Jody's tea, smiles, then refills her glass of

red wine.  She picks up the phone from its cradle and moves

into:

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

She dials a number.  LOUD REGGAE can be heard blaring through

the phone.

She plugs one ear.

The noise abruptly stops.  Claire clicks off the phone and

replaces it in the sweater pocket.  She tunes the stereo to a

classical music station.

INT.  WORK ROOM - NIGHT

She walks in, places the cordless phone on a BASE UNIT, then

hears a different set of musical notes from the computer.

She stares at the screen, stunned.

ANGLE

The game has been finished.  Cards with faces swarm

chaotically across the screen with the message:  YOU WIN!

Without warning, the radio dial rips cacophonously past

several stations and comes to a stop on some angry, punkish

rock and roll.

She bolts around a corner to the stereo.  The music is

chaotic and deafening.  She finds Cooper growling at...no

one.  She turns off the stereo.  Cooper suddenly bolts down

the hall.  She follows him.

INT.  FOYER - NIGHT

The foyer's empty, but the front door is open.  Claire

nervously walks out and looks around.

POV - THE GARDEN

No sign of the dog.

Claire turns to go back inside.  When she touches the

doorknob, she hears the whispering again.  A fleeting shadow

draws her eye to a COAT RACK MIRROR which reflects directly

into the study.

The whispering stops.

INT.  NORMAN'S LAB - NIGHT

Claire walks in to find Norman surrounded by several GRAD

STUDENTS.  At school he's a very different man; pressed shirt

and tie, hair neatly brushed back.  They're preforming some

unseen procedure on a live sheep in a containment harness.

She stops by the door to watch him.

An intense ASIAN GIRL answers.

She glances at her notes.

Andrew, tall razor thin, was waiting for this.

He measures out the liquid from a blue plastic bottle into an

apparatus connected to an inhalation mask on the sheep.

He moves to the sheep's head and strokes it as he nods to

Courtney who turns a valve on the apparatus.  The sheep

suddenly goes completely still.  Norman moves around and

begins a brief procedure.

He completes the procedure.  They look at him blankly.

Groans, laughter.  He stops Claire.

Andrew and Amy tend to Prudence, the rest leave.  Claire

moves over to him.  They kiss.  Norman packs notes and some

of the chemicals into a LEATHER CASE.

She watches as the sheep slowly becomes reanimated and is led

out of the room.

He takes her arm.

INT.  THE FOYER - NIGHT

Norman pushes open the front door.  Cooper pads over, wagging

his tail.  They walk together past the stereo into...

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

...the living room.  All is quiet.  They move into...

INT.  NORMAN'S STUDY - NIGHT

It's undisturbed.  Norman checks the window locks.

He nods as Cooper appears.

The dog stares blankly.

Norman smiles.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Norman sits on the bed and pulls off his shoes.

Claire leans against the window sill.

He walks over to her.

He goes to his dresser and fishes a little joint from a box

in his dresser.

She produces a match and lights it.  They sit on the bed.

She takes a little puff on the joint as he kisses her neck.

He nods, Claire passes the joint back.

He takes a little toke, then vanishes into the bathroom.

She lays back on the bed.  Sounds of flushing.

He reappears without the joint.

Claire ponders this.  Norman turns off the light and joins

her on the bed.  He kisses her knee.

Then starts working his way up her thigh.

Claire smiles.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Claire sits frozen, cello between her legs, bow hovering in

position.  After an uncomfortable long pause, she touches bow

to string, drawing in a breath at the power of the sound.

Claire takes another deep breath, then launches into a

beautiful and melancholy piece of music.  She's very, very

good.  Eyes closed.  Her body begins to sway slightly as her

left hand vibratos like butterfly wings on the neck.

She reaches a difficult transition and falters.  She seems

almost surprised.  She attacks the transition again, and

again falters.  Claire bites her lower lip and tries yet

again, this time failing completely.

She sits back in the chair, despondent.  Almost as an

afterthought, she sadly drags the bow across strings.  At the

end of the tone, something catches her ear.  She can just

make out the HINT OF A FAINT FEMININE VOICE echoing the tone.

She sits up and plays a different note, then another.  Each

time the soft mournful voice becomes more distinct.  Finally

she plays a sharp, higher pitched note.  The voice echoes

with a distinct, unsettling shriek.

CRASH!

INT.  NORMAN'S STUDY - DUSK

Claire walks in and sees:

INSERT-- Lying on the floor...A FRAMED NEWSPAPER PHOTOGRAPH

OF NORMAN AND CLAIRE.

The caption announces that he's being promoted to the

"distinguished DUPONT CHAIR IN GENETICS."  Through the

spiderwebbed glass, Norman can be seen shaking hands with an

older academic, hugging a smiling Claire to his side.

Claire kneels down to gather the picture.  A single shard of

glass is missing.  She finds it a foot away by a distinctive

knot in the wood floor.

She notices a COPPER GLINT in the point of glass, but when

she moves it, it's gone.  She places the pieces of broken

glass on the frame and stands.

Out of the window directly in front of her sees:  Mr. Feur,

removing a DIRT COVERED SHOVEL from his trunk.  She glances

down at the picture, then back up at Mr. Feur, who carries

the shovel around back.

Claire wraps up the broken picture.  She hears a car door

slam and glances out the window in time to see Mr. Feur

driving off.

EXT.  GARDEN - DAY

A stiff autumn breeze.  Claire stands at the fence.

She looks through the tiny crack.  Nothing.

Silence.

EXT.  THE FEUR'S - DAY

Claire glances down as she walks past THE FURROW.  She looks

up at the house, which seems quite placid, then slowly heads

around back.

EXT.  FEUR'S BACK PORCH - DAY

She takes in the lake view from the large porch.  The wind is

really blowing.  Her eye catches on something.  Propped

against the back door...

THE SOIL COVERED SHOVEL

Claire takes a pinch of soil from the shovel and tastes it,

then knocks at the back door.  There's no answer.  She knocks

again.  Nothing.  She's turning to go, then the door swings

open.  The smile fades from Claire's face.

CLAIRE'S POV

The immense MR. FEUR filling the doorway.

He starts to close the door.

Slam.  And Claire is staring at a closed door.

EXT.  LAKE - DAY

Claire and Jody knife slowly through the water in the

Spencer's sailboat heading back toward the dock, the OLD

LIGHTHOUSE, the BRIDE in the background.

Jody finishes securing a line.  The breeze is mild, so they

just cruise with the wind.

Claire just looks at her.

Jody shakes her head.

Claire glances over at Jody.

Jody regards her.  After a beat:

Jody shrugs, "Have it your way."  Beat.

CLAIRE'S HOUSE across the lake.

CLAIRE'S POV

A FIGURE in the turreted window of Norman's study.

Claire looks over at Jody.

She looks again-- nothing.

Claire stares back at the house.

INT.  KITCHEN - NIGHT

Claire walks in and sets down some packages.  She opens one

and pulls out new toothpaste and...AN ENVELOPE-- the kind

your pictures come back in.  She absently leafs through them,

then freezes.  She gapes at one of the shots.

INT.  UPSTAIRS - NIGHT

Claire turns off the lights and crouches down.  She raises a

pair of BINOCULARS.

POV - BINOCULARS

Claire rakes the binoculars across the Feur's house...past

their car parked in front until she finds A LIGHT ON

DOWNSTAIRS.

The tall, powerfully built Mr. Feur walks into the room and

sits by himself at the dining room table, which is set for

one.  He eats a TV dinner, slowly chewing and staring

straight ahead.  He sips from a can of beer.

Just then...A HAND GRABS CLAIRE'S ARM.  She lets out a

screech and turns to see Norman standing beside her.

She glances back out the window and sees Mr. Feur standing

at the window, paging the curtain.  She squats down, pulling

Norman with her.

She peers over the sill in time to see Mr. Feur turning away

from the window.  She takes Norman by the hand and leads him

downstairs.

INT.  CLAIRE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

She leads Norman in.

Claire turns.

She triumphantly thrusts one before him.  Norman looks at it.

The ROSES.  She points out a HAZY FIGURE in the TURRETED

WINDOW of the study.  Norman takes it over to the light.

Norman shakes his head.  He looks again at the picture, does

a quick calculation.

She nods slightly.

She's got him.

She thrusts the batch at him.  He peruses the other few shots

of the garden.

She looks.  He might not be wrong.

She leads him out of the room.

INT.  WORK ROOM - NIGHT

Claire stares at the computer screen triumphantly.

She looks at his watch.

She bolts up the stairs.

INT.  NORMAN'S PICKUP TRUCK - NIGHT

They drive across the bridge.

He pulls out a cell phone and punches in a number.

The phone flashes..."NO SERVICE."

They near the far side of the bridge.  Norman looks down at

the cell phone, which now reads, "ROAM."  He presses a

button.

He shoots her a look.

INT.  RESTAURANT - NIGHT

A cozy, candlelit Italian place in town.  Claire and Norman

arrive at the table.  STAN rises.  The chair next to him is

empty.  He kisses her cheek.

She greets Stan, a friendly looking man in his forties.

Claire flashes a semi-playful look back at Norman.

A VOICE speaks out from behind her.

Claire turns to find A TALL, ELEGANT BRUNETTE standing behind

her.  The woman's face registers some shock.

The two women embrace, then beam at each other.

LATER

Post meal.  Several empty wine bottle decorate the table.

Claire nods.

They dissolve into giggles.  Norman and Stan smile.

Elena puts her hand on Claire's.

Elena looks at Claire, then smiles.

Claire puts her arm around Norman.

He squeezes her hand.

INT.  WORK ROOM - DAY

Claire walks into the work room with the portable phone to

her ear and a cup of Jody's special tea.  She sniffs it and

makes a face as she turns on the computer.  After several

rings a GIRL picks up on the other end.

The line goes dead.  Claire hits redial and gets...a BUSY

SIGNAL.  She clicks the phone off as the computer boots up.

Claire puts the phone down and starts a game of Alice's

Solitaire.  She turns a card and waits.

She waits, the cursor blinks benignly.

Nothing happens.

INT.  NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - DAY

She walks into the room and notices STEAM wafting from the

cracked bathroom door.

INT.  BATHROOM - DAY

Claire enters the steamy bathroom.  The tub is nearly

overflowing with water.  She squats down to drain the tub.

She stops, feeling watched, then slowly peers behind her...no

one's there.  Claire reaches toward the water to yank the

plug's chain, then freezes.  In the bathwater's still

reflection she see:

A PRETTY YOUNG BLOND standing beside her.  Startled, she pops

up and slams into the SHOWER HEAD.

Claire collapses over the side of the tub, her head dipping

underwater.  A small cloud of red surrounds her.  Moments

later, an arm wraps around her.

Blurry shapes.

INT.  BATHROOM - DAY

CLAIRE'S POV - A FACE sharpens into focus hovering above

her...Norman.

INT.  BEDROOM - DAY

Claire sits on the bed.  Norman dabs the blood from a tiny

cut on the back of her head.

She goes to her dresser and gets a PRESCRIPTION BOTTLE and

starts to open it.  Norman gently places a hand on her arm.

She shoots him a look...

...and puts the pills down.

Beat.

INT.  DR. DRAYTON'S OFFICE - DAY

Claire sits in a comfortable looking chair with her purse in

her lap, arms crossed.

She trails off.  Camera slowly pulls back to reveal, DR.

TIMOTHY DRAYTON, a stocky, light skinned black man in his

late forties with a kind face and piercing brown eyes.

There's a pause.

Dr. Drayton takes a little silver bowl full of shiny, red

FIREBALLS next to his chair.  He proffers it to Claire.

He shakes his head.  She shrugs, then grabs one and pops it

into her mouth.

She sucks on the fireball and slowly nods.

Her eyes get a little wider.

She manages an unsteady smile.

He smiles and shrugs, "no problem."  She stares at him for a

moment.

She studies him for a moment.

He nods slightly, as if she's told him, "I have some

anxiety."  Claire goes on.

He thinks for a moment, then:

Claire nearly swallows her fireball.

Claire ponders this for a moment, then looks back up at him.

She seems satisfied by his sincerity.

He stands.  Claire nods, then stands.  She smiles too.

He nods.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Claire walks in carrying a half-empty bottle of wine.  She

looks over at Jody, who turns off the lights.  Jody then

strikes a match and lights a LARGE CANDLE.  She unveils her

carved ANTIQUE OUIJA BOARD.

Jody turns to her, deadly serious.

Claire's smile fades.  She nods.

They sit cross legged, the board between them.

Jody indicates the wooden pointing device.  Each woman grasps

an edge.

Jody closes her eyes.  Claire follows suit.

They look down at the planchette, which hasn't moved.

There's still no movement.

Jody focuses intently.

A long moment passes.  It's starting to seem like a bust.

Suddenly, THE CANDLE FLARES.  Even Jody seems startled.

At first, nothing happens.  Then, slowly, the planchette

starts to move across the board.

Jody shakes her head.

The planchette comes to rest on the letter "M."  Moments

later, it starts to move again drifting over and stopping on

"E."

It starts to drift again, moving slowly toward the space

between "E" and "F."  The planchette stops on "F."  Jody

removes her fingers from the device.

Suddenly, the CANDLE starts flickering strangely and THE

PLANCHETTE SLIDES JERKILY ON ITS OWN...M-E-F, M-E-F...

Jody stumbles backwards, gasping.

Claire leans in.

The CANDLE GOES OUT.

Jody bolts.  Claire follows.

EXT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

Claire catches up to the completely spooked Jody outside the

work room.  She holds onto her arm.

Cooper's growling in the work room.  They look in.

Claire, transfixed, walks in.

INT.  WORK ROOM - NIGHT

She stares at the computer screen, which is being filled with

letters at an amazing speed.

MEFMEFMEFMEFMEFMEFMEF...

She hears the front door swing open.

INT.  FOYER - NIGHT

Claire arrives at the open front door in time to see the

Karman-Ghia tearing out of the driveway.  She turns and goes

back into the house.

CRASH!

She edges into...

INT.  NORMAN'S STUDY - NIGHT

The picture has, once again, tumbled from its spot.  She

drops to her knees over the picture.  This time THE GLASS IS

SHATTERED.  When she picks out the remaining shards, the

newspaper photo slides out.  Claire glances at the benign

news stories on the back.

She looks around and spots a piece of glass wedged in a crack

in the floor boards by the knot.

CLAIRE'S POV

The piece of glass, wedged next to what looks like A COPPER

COIN in the crack.  It's too big to be a penny.

She tries to use the piece of glass to pry it free, but

recoils.  A tiny drop of blood appears on her finger, which

she pops into her mouth.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Still sucking on her finger, Claire walks in and begins to

clean up the remains of the seance.  She bends down to pick

up the Ouija board, then stops when she notices that the tub

is again full to the brink of overflowing.

Claire peers around, frustrated, half waiting for a reply.

There is only silence.  She reaches in to pull the plug,

nearly scalding her hand.  When she turns for a hand towel

she finds a message traced into the steamed-up mirror:

She draws in a breath and darts out of the bathroom.

EXT.  LAB BUILDING - NIGHT

Norman nods to a SECURITY GUARD as he leaves a darkened

university building.  He sees Claire standing at the foot of

the steps.

Norman's momentarily speechless.

He regards her for a moment.

This stops Claire in her tracks.

She turns on a heel and walks toward her car.

EXT.  CAMPUS - NIGHT

Norman catches up to her as a LARGE CROWD is filing out of

the concert hall next door.

She turns on him.

Norman glances around at the crowded sidewalk.

Some of the bystanders stop to watch.

Claire leans in and lowers her voice without diminishing her

intensity.

Something behind him catches her eye.  She trails off.

Claire walks past him toward the parking lot.

There's a dangerous energy to her walk.  People step out of

the way.

EXT.  PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Claire walks past several cars until she sees the one she's

after.  MR. FEUR steps out from behind the open trunk of his

old Buick.

He looks up at her.

Mr. Feur stares, dazed, through the tirade.  Norman arrives

at her side.

He stares at both Spencers for a moment.  Then calls past

them.

Claire and Norman turn.  A BLOND WOMAN backs out of the

passenger seat.  She turns.  IT'S NOT THE FACE CLAIRE HAS

SEEN.  Claire looks sucker punched.

INT.  DR. DRAYTON'S OFFICE - DAY

Claire sits back in the chair.  She looks drained.  A soft

rain taps against the windows.

Dr. Drayton takes this in.  She seems genuinely frightened.

He watches her calmly, some empathy on his face.

Beat.

Claire remembers.

Claire ponders this.

Beat.

Claire's eyes widen.

Dr. Drayton smiles kindly.

She trails off.

Claire finishes her tirade.  Dr. Drayton lets her settle for

a moment.

She takes in the ramifications of that.

EXT.  PORCH - DAY

Claire's carrying some cuttings into the house.  She hears a

knock at the gate, walks over and opens it to discover...Mrs.

Feur.  The real one.

There's an awkward pause.

Claire leads her toward the house.

EXT.  PORCH - DAY

Claire pours Mrs. Feur a glass of iced tea from a pitcher.

She's small and delicate looking with big, watery eyes.

She regards Mrs. Feur for a moment.  She seems skittish and

shy.

Mrs. Feur waits.

There's a pause.  Mrs. Feur looks down into her lap.

A tiny smile.

She looks away for a moment, then looks back at Claire.

Claire is mesmerized.

Claire stares at this strange, passionate woman.

Mrs. Feur smiles at her.

INT.  VOLVO - NIGHT

Claire pulls up in front of a large NEW YORK HOTEL.

She smiles and shakes her head.  Norman kisses her goodbye,

then grabs his bag from the backseat.

He starts to walk into the hotel.

He turns.  She's standing next to the car.

Norman walks over to her and cradles her chin with his hand.

Norman takes his cue.

He gently cups her chin in his hand.

She smiles, kisses him warmly, then gets in the car.

EXT.  COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - NIGHT

Claire stands outside Caitlin's Columbia dorm, watching young

lives in motion.

INT.  DORM HALLWAY - NIGHT

Claire walks past a number of doors.  Music booms out of one,

shards of a conversation out of another.  Finally, she

arrives at a door that says "Fur is murder."  She smiles to

herself and knocks.  There's no answer.

Claire turns to find an attractive YOUNG MAN standing at her

elbow.

Claire nods slightly.

She walks down the hall.

INT.  CBGB'S - NIGHT

Claire moves past a huge, BLACK SKINHEAD DOORMAN into an

entrance area in the dark throbbing punk club.  She looks out

over the MOB OF SEETHING YOUNG PEOPLE, swaying to a pulsing

power-pop band.  PUNKS and CLUB KIDS push past her as they

move into the throng.  She looks up and her face changes.

CLAIRE'S POV

A shaggy trio of musicians on the stage, pumping through a

jangly, but surprisingly melodic song.  Her eyes race across

the faces of a BUTCH FEMALE DRUMMER, an emaciated

GUITARIST/SINGER and stop on the BASS PLAYER...Caitlin.  She

rocks back and forth to her own hypnotic bass line, EYES

CLOSED, SWAYING TO THE MUSIC.

Claire is transfixed, her face a mix of pride and sadness.

The song ends and Caitlin's eyes open.  She smiles for a

moment, then the smile fades as she spots Claire.  Panicked,

Claire ducks behind a pillar.

EXT.  CBGB'S - NIGHT

The last groups of YOUNG PEOPLE file out of the club.  A

couple of them glance at Claire, who seems very out of place

standing on the Bowery late at night.

She turns to see Caitlin standing before her, a bass guitar

case on a strap over her shoulder.  There's an awkward pause.

Caitlin stares at the ground.

Claire winces silently.

Claire doesn't disagree.

Beat.  Claire studies her surprisingly strong daughter.

They hug.  For a moment, Claire's got her little girl back.

Her eyes well up.

Beat.  Claire stares at her daughter.

Caitlin nods.

INT.  PRESIDENT'S HOUSE - NIGHT

...a large cocktail party.  The house is crowded with

PROFESSORS, ADMINISTRATORS, and their SPOUSES.  PRESIDENT

TEMPLETON, a frosty-haired, avuncular chap, greets them with

his WIFE, a sharp looking woman in her late fifties.

She takes their coats.  Dean Templeton leads them in.

This seems to strike a nerve.

Claire notices this and squeezes his hand.  Templeton leads

Norman into a large living room which is filled with

colleagues.  Several of them turn and begin clapping.  Others

follow suit.

EXT.  PATIO - NIGHT

Claire stands at a small bar.

She scans the party and spots the Feurs deep in some intimate

conversation with each other.  She's speaking about something

astonishing.  He's rapt.

Claire locates Norman in a corner listening as some AGED

ALUMNUS holds forth.  He sees her and mouths, "I'm sorry."

He points to his watch and flashes five fingers.  She smiles

and nods.

She turns to see Jody.

They hug.

Claire looks uncomfortable.

Jody recognizes her fragility.

Jody nods as Claire walks off.

INT.  POWDER ROOM - NIGHT

Claire stands in the spacious powder room, checking her

makeup in the mirror.  Mrs. Templeton enters from the

bathroom.

The two women fix their makeup side-by-side in the mirror.

Claire looks confused.

Claire turns to her.

Claire's still in the dark.

Beat.

Mrs. Templeton leaves.  Claire looks into the mirror.

EXT.  TEMPLETON'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Claire and Norman walk toward the car.

He looks at her for a moment.

He stops, takes her shoulders gently.

She thinks for a beat.

She takes his hand and kisses it.

EXT.  CLAIRE'S HOUSE - DAY

Claire walks up to the door.  When she touches the knob she

hears...the WHISPERING.  She opens the door and moves into:

INT.  FOYER - DAY

The same intense whispered exchange.  She glances into the

mirror and sees...SHAPES MOVING, BODIES, A FLASH OF SILVER.

She turns the corner and again...NO ONE'S THERE.

INT.  NORMAN'S STUDY - DAY

She walks in and stands before:

The repaired photograph of herself and Norman...at the party

for the DUPONT CHAIR.

She takes it from the wall, stares at it for a moment, then

SMASHES IT ON THE EDGE OF THE DESK.  She extricates the

picture from the broken glass.  The caption reads:

"Dr. Norman Spencer being awarded the distinguished Dupont

Chair in Genetics by Dean of Sciences Torvald Ackerman."

She stares at the picture for a moment, then flips it over

and scans the stories on the back.  One tells of a hotly

contested city council race, another contains details of a

large alumni donation to the university.

She notices the bottom corner of another story she hadn't

noticed before.  It's only a small portion of one column, but

it seems to detail the search for A MISSING GIRL.

INT.  WORK ROOM - DAY

Claire, online, logs onto a missing persons website.  She

narrows her search to NEW ENGLAND.  A screen pops up with a

list of names.  She scrolls down the list until she

finds...FRANK, MADISON ELIZABETH.

Claire double clicks on it, then waits breathlessly as a

blurry cyber photo fills the screen.  Slowly, higher

resolution moves down the image.

IT'S THE GHOST.

Under the photo is the legend:

Claire stares at the familiar face, then shakily hits PRINT.

LATER

Claire is staring down at the girl's face on the print out.

She glances at the byline on the back of the newspaper photo.

INSERT

"by Neil McCann"

She hangs up.

INT.  NORMAN'S STUDY - NIGHT

Norman is unpacking NOTES and CHEMICALS from his LEATHER BAG.

Claire walks in.

She places the printout on his desk.  He takes a long look at

it.

Claire nods.

Norman looks again.

Norman leaves the hung frame and walks over to a window.

Claire falls silent, Norman turns from the window.

Claire looks down.

She shakes her head.

Long pause.  Claire looks up, then timidly holds out the

printout.

Norman's jaw tightens.

He silently walks out of the room.  Claire stares down at the

face in the photo.

EXT.  MADISON FRANK'S HOUSE - DAY

Claire parks in front of a small, clapboard house in a

neighborhood that is decidedly less upscale than her own.

She gets out and tentatively walks up to the tiny porch.

EXT.  PORCH - DAY

Claire rings the bell.  A DRAWN LOOKING WOMAN in her early

fifties answers the door.

She starts to close the door.  Claire leans forward.

The woman stops.

She studies Claire.

Claire doesn't know what to say to this.

She gives Claire the once over.

She motions Claire in.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - DAY

Claire sits on a couch in the cramped living room.  Mrs.

Frank serves up a mug of coffee.  A soap plays silently on an

old 19" RCA.

She sizes Claire up.

There's a silence.  Mrs. Frank stares at the TV.

Claire doesn't know what to say.  Mrs. Frank turns to her.

Claire stares at this tough, tragic woman.

Claire nods.

INT.  MADISON'S ROOM - DAY

Claire enters the room.  Her face freezes.

ANGLE

SEVERAL POSTERS FOR ALTERNATIVE AND METAL BANDS, side by side

with ACADEMIC PLAQUES AND AWARDS.

She nods.  Claire moves along looking at pictures.  Some with

different men, others with rough looking friends.  Claire

stops at a picture tucked into a mirror.

INSERT

Madison singing at a recital of some kind.  She's lovely,

with striking GREEN EYES.  Around her neck is a distinctive

SILVER NECKLACE, with a perfectly wrought, SILVER ROSEBUD.

A phone rings in the hallway.

Claire's eye is pulled past the picture into the mirror, the

reflection of something pinned to the edge of a bulletin

board.  She turns and moves over to:

A SHORT BLOND BRAID.  She reaches out to touch it.  Claire

hears footsteps.  Mrs. Frank leans back into the room.

EXT.  PORCH - DAY

Mrs. Frank walks Claire out.

Claire walks to her car.  She turns and calls out:

Claire stands, frozen, as Mrs. Frank disappears into the

little house.

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

Claire shuts the blinds, then places the large candle on the

floor, then places the MISSING GIRL PRINTOUT at the base of

the candle.  On top if it, she places THE BRAID.

Then Claire lights the candle, puts the braid on the picture,

and hunches over it, whispering intensely:

She waits a beat.  Nothing.

Nothing happens.  She looks around at the seance props.

She stands and places her hands on the sink.  She glances at

herself in the mirror.

Suddenly, her head droops over, she shudders softly.  When

she looks back into the mirror, her eyes are a DEEP GREEN.

She hears the front door open downstairs.

A strange smile creeps across her face.

INT.  CLAIRE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

POV - Gliding down the stairs and into...

INT.  KITCHEN - NIGHT

The refrigerator door is open.  Norman is leaning over.  Only

his ass protrudes.

REVERSE

Norman closes the refrigerator door and sees Claire standing

before him, stripped down to a skirt and slip top.  There's a

different physicality to her movements...a different rhythm

to her speech.

Norman smiles.

She shakes her head.

She takes the apple...

...then takes a ravenous bite and walks out of the room.

INT.  NORMAN'S STUDY - DAY

Norman finds Claire seated on his desk, her legs spread.

She grabs his belt and pulls him into her, then holds the

apple to his mouth.  Norman tentatively takes a bite.  She

mashes it slowly into his mouth until he recoils slightly.

When he chews the huge bite, a glistening drop of juice runs

down his chin.  Claire leans forward and licks it off.

She just smiles mischievously, then starts kissing him.  It

looks like she's eating his lips.  Norman's getting hot.  She

bites down on a lip.

Something about this response frightens him.  Claire yanks

Norman's belt open.  He steps back, tripping over his

castered desk chair.  She's on top of him in a flash, sitting

astride him.  She speaks in a forceful, sexy whisper.

She grinds up against him.  Suddenly, something pulls her eye

to the hallway.

POV - The COAT RACK MIRROR, now from inside the study.  In

it's reflection:  ANOTHER CLAIRE, shorter hair, stunned

expression.  Where she's standing...it's DAYTIME.

Claire leans over him until they're nose-to-nose.

Norman shoves her off of him onto the floor.  He stands,

breathless.

In a moment, it's Claire again, stunned and trembling against

the wall.

She looks up.

He just stares at her, his face anguished.

He's frozen.

Norman doesn't move.  He's never seen her like this.

She bolts toward the living room.  He follows her.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

She grabs her coat.

He follows her as she searches for her purse and keys.

She wheels on him with fury.

Claire goes to leave, Norman blocks her path.

She brushes past him.

INT.  FOYER - NIGHT

He catches up, beside himself.

Claire's nearly disarmed by this rare emotional outburst.

She turns at the door and looks back.

She leaves.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Norman, rumpled and unshaven, is passed out on the couch, a

half empty whiskey bottle beside him on the coffee table.  He

awakens to find Claire sitting across from him.

He waits.

Beat.

Claire goes pale.

He stares off.  The reality sinks in for Claire.

Norman can hardly look at her.

He trails off.

The enormity of this hits Norman.  His head drops into his

hands.

He looks up at her, teary.

She gets up and walks out of the room.

EXT.  JODY'S STUDIO - DAY

An old industrial loft filled with finished and half-finished

oil paintings.  Jody brings Claire some tea.

Jody looks down.

Jody looks up, tears in her eyes.

Claire waits for her to continue.

Claire nods.

Claire walks over to a window.

Beat.

Claire turns.

Jody isn't as sure.

INT.  KITCHEN - DAY

Claire walks in.  She notices the clock on the range is dark.

She flips on a light.  Nothing happens.  Worried, she heads

upstairs.

INT.  NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - MORNING

Claire enters.  The bed is empty.  The shower is running in

the bathroom.

INT.  BATHROOM - MORNING

ANGLE - CLAIRE...her face a mask of terror.

CLAIRE'S POV

The BATHTUB, with the shower curtain drawn around it, the

water blasting.  Norman's limp hand pokes through the

curtain.  AN ELECTRIC CORD leads from the mirror socket into

the tub.

Claire races over and rips the plug from the wall.  She tears

the SHOWER CURTAIN AWAY to find A BLUISH NORMAN lying,

unconscious in the tub.

She hugs her face to his chest until she picks up a

heartbeat.

Claire shakes him to no effect.

She slaps him on the face...once, then twice.  He suddenly

sucks in a gulp of air, begins struggling and dazedly returns

to life.

Sobbing, she shuts off the squeaky faucets and struggles to

pull him upright.  She discovered HER BLOWDRYER in the tub

and hurls it across the room.

INT.  BEDROOM - DAY

Claire sits beside Norman on the bed as two E.M.T.'s, an OLD

GUY and a HEAVY WOMAN pack up.  Stan's on the phone, Jody off

to one side.

The E.M.T.'s leave as Stan hangs up.

He glances at Claire as he walks Stan out.

They leave.

Jody thinks for a moment.

MADISON'S SMILING FACE

EXT.  DOCK - DAY

Claire's staring down at the PRINTOUT.  She's kneeling at the

edge of the dock.  From her pocket she produces THE BLOND

BRAID and a piece of TWINE.  She wraps the braid up in the

printout with a rock and secures it with the twine.

She tosses the little parcel into the dark water.  Bubbles

stream up.  In the bubbles, Claire sees...THE PALE SHAPE,

which slowly becomes THE DROWNED GIRL, staring up from

beneath the dark water.

Claire wants to pull away, but she's transfixed.  Madison

reaches up toward the surface.  As the bubble diminish, she

seems to be FADING AWAY.  When she's gone, Claire reaches out

toward the water.  When her finger touches the surface...

WHOOSH!  She's sucked down into the water.

INT.  UPSTAIRS SITTING ROOM - DAY

Norman glances out of the window in time to see a splash off

the dock.  He races out of the room.

EXT.  UNDERWATER - DAY

Claire struggles furiously as the unseen attacker drags her

deeper into the murky depths.

EXT.  DOCK - DAY

Norman sprints toward the dock.

EXT.  UNDERWATER - DAY

As he oxygen begins to run out, Claire screams desperately as

her hand plunges into the muddy bottom.

Suddenly, she's released.  She yanks her hand free, the silt

swirls revealing...a COPPER COLORED GLINT in the mud.

NORMAN'S HAND grasps Claire's ankle and pulls her upwards.

EXT.  DOCK - DAY

Norman helps Claire, coughing, onto the dock.  They hold each

other.

She nods, catching her breath.

She stares into the still water.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Claire in bed with a blanket wrapped around her.  Norman

walks in with some steaming mulled cider.  He stokes the

blazing fire.  He sits on the edge of the bed.

The gaze at each other.  Tentatively, she places a hand on

his.

EXT.  GARDEN - DAY

Claire, dressed in a warm sweater, finishes wrapping her

rosebushes for the winter.  She picks up a basket of clipped

flowers and heads inside.

EXT.  PORCH - DAY

She turns the doorknob and listens for the whispering.  All

is quiet.

INT.  FOYER - DAY

She looks into the mirror and sees only the study and the

lake behind it.

INT.  NORMAN'S STUDY - DAY

Claire places the roses in a vase on Norman's desk, and in

doing so, accidentally knocks it over.

With a towel she mops up the water which has dripped onto the

wooden floor.  The stream has flowed over to the knot and

dripped into the crack.  Claire stares down at THE STRANGE

COPPER COIN.

She grabs a letter opener from Norman's desk and pries the

coin out.  It's actually a SMALL BRASS KEY, the head of which

is THREE INTERLOCKING CIRCLES.  She stares at it for a

moment, then places it in her pocket.

EXT.  SAILBOAT - DUSK

Claire stands toward the bow watching the sunset.  The leaves

on the surrounding hills are stunning.  Norman appears beside

her.

She gazes out.

He wraps an arm around her.

She leans against him, staring out.

EXT.  DRIVEWAY - DAY

Jody and Claire return from a walk.  Norman has the boat on

the trailer and is securing a tarp over it.  They stop under

a tree.

Norman smiles and waves.  They wave back as they arrive at

the Karman-Ghia.

Jody drives off.  Claire walks over to Norman.  She hugs him

tightly.

They kiss.  She heads to the Volvo.

INT.  VOLVO - DAY

Claire is approaching a country market.  She spots a little

sign with an arrow:

She hesitates for a moment, then take the turn.

EXT.  ADAMANT - DAY

Claire stands on a street in the quaint little village.  She

looks around, spots a little cafe with outdoor tables.  A

friendly old HIPPIE WOMAN walks out of a store.  She watches

Claire gazing around.

She ambles off across the street.  Claire watches her go.

Then notices a sign hung out above a little shop.  THREE

INTERLOCKED CIRCLES.  She walks toward it.

EXT.  SHOP - DAY

Claire stands in front of the store window.  A sign in the

window identifies it as "The Sleeping Dog - Hand wrought

jewelry and gifts."  Claire tries to open the door, but sees

a closed sign.

She steps back out to the window and looks in.  On display

are a selection of handcrafted jewelry and curios.

Suddenly her eye stops on a small silver bracelet with an

intricate ROSEBUD.

Her eye travels up and behind it to the back of the display

where she spots, a small ORNATE COPPER CHEST.  Protruding

from its lock...THE INTERLOCKED CIRCLES.  Claire looks like

she's been punched.

INT.  NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Claire glances over at the soundly sleeping Norman.  She

gingerly slides out of bed.

INT.  BASEMENT - NIGHT

Claire sits among the boxes, leafing through the photo album,

tracking the years of their life.  Her hands tremble.

Finally she reaches the picture of their wedding, reaches

behind the photo and produces...THE KEY.

EXT.  DOCK - NIGHT

Claire in her nightgown and a jacket, walks slowly down the

dock.  An expensive looking flashlight illuminates her path.

She stops and stares out at the moonlit lake.

She holds out a fist.  Her fingers unfold and in her palm

lies THE KEY.  She holds the key out over the water and

stands there, frozen.  The lighthouse beam sweeps past her

once...then again.

Claire pulls her hand back and holds the key to her chest,

then carefully places it on the dock.  She very deliberately

takes off her jacket and slippers, steps to the edge of the

dock, shines the flashlight on the dark water...then steps

off the dock.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

AN ANGUISHED CRY from downstairs.  Norman bolts upright in

bed.

INT.  NORMAN'S STUDY - NIGHT

Norman walks through the darkened house into the moonlit

room.  He pulls up short when he sees the strongbox sitting

closed on his desk.  He looks around, sees the room is empty

and walks over to it.

The mud and silt has been wiped from the top, on which is

engraved:  To N.C.S. with love always, M.E.F.

He pulls open the lid and tentatively peers inside.

THE LIGHTS SWITCH ON.

Claire stands in the doorway, holding out the SILVER ROSEBUD

NECKLACE.

Norman stares at her dumbly.

Claire's lip is quivering with confusion.

Norman stares at the phone.  He's a wreck.

He takes the phone, punches in three numbers, waits.

He looks at Claire.

He hangs up.  Long silence.  They look at each other.

He walks out.  Claire walks over and stands before the box.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Claire walks into the bedroom.  The shower can be heard

through the bathroom door, which is partially ajar.  Steam

drifts out through the crack.

She stands in her dressing room and catches sight of her

weary, distraught countenance in the mirror.  She glances

down.

CLAIRE'S POV

The necklace still in her hand.

She looks up again into the mirror.  Her face goes strangely

blank and, almost mechanically, she clasps the necklace onto

her neck.

Suddenly, she stares over at the CORDLESS PHONE lying on the

bed for a long moment.  She walks over, picks up the phone

and looks at it.

CLAIRE'S POV

The redial button.

She stares at the bathroom door, then hits the button.  Two

rings, then:

Claire's eyes widen in terror.  She clicks off the phone,

and, taking it with her, starts moving toward the door to the

hall.  She keeps a steady eye trained on the bathroom.  She

quietly pulls open the hallway door.

Suddenly, A HAND WITH A WASHCLOTH IS THRUST OVER HER FACE.

Claire shoves Norman's hand away and runs past him down the

hall.

INT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

She's nearly at the top of the stairs when her body starts to

falter.  She tumbles over, dropping the phone, which clatters

down the stairs before her.

Claire is pulling herself down the stairs, moaning in terror.

Norman can be seen calmly following her, waiting for the

Halothane to take its full effect.  Finally, she freezes.

Norman picks up the phone and stands over her.

He picks her gently up in his arms and starts carrying her

slowly up the stairs.

CLAIRE'S POV

Ceiling, shapes...

INT.  BATHROOM - NIGHT

And into the bathroom.

...then she's lowered into the tub.

He actually wipes a tear from his eye.  He kisses her lips.

We can feel her revulsion.  His face over her.

He turns on the faucets, then moves out of her line of

vision.  Sound of a number being dialed.

She glances down and sees on the edge of the tub...a

prescription bottle of VALIUM with her name on the label.

Her eyes go wide.

Norman, lit periodically by the sweep of the light house

beacon, squats with the phone and gazes down at her.

Claire, mute, glances frantically around.  One of her fingers

begins to flutter.

The tub is rapidly filling.  He checks his watch, then

reaches for the Valium.  As much from will as the drug

beginning to fade, Claire lets out a garbled cry.

Norman stops.

Norman seems unnerved that she's still clinging to her belief

in the ghost.

He sees the necklace on her neck.

He puts down the bottle of Valium, then reaches around

Claire's neck to remove the necklace.  When his hands close

on the clasp, his face suddenly goes slack.

NORMAN'S POV

His arms around MADISON'S BEAUTIFUL CORPSE.

Norman explodes backwards, slamming his head into the BRASS

SHOWER NOZZLE.  He staggers out of the bathroom before

collapsing with a thud.  The water finally rises above

Claire's nostrils.

Claire somehow manages to work a toe into the plug chain and

yank it free.  The water slowly descends.

When it seems that her lungs must burst, her mouth finally

clears the descending water.  She chokes in great gulps of

air.

The drug is finally wearing off.  Claire sits up.  Norman's

unconscious feet can be seen outside of the doorway.  She

turns off the water and stands unsteadily.

She looks around for the phone and finally spots the little

antenna protruding from under Norman.  She delicately pulls

the phone out of his back pocket, only to discover that it's

been broken by his fall.  She drops it and walks quietly out

of the room.

INT.  STAIRWAY - NIGHT

Claire stumbles as fast as she can down the stairs.

INT.  FOYER - NIGHT

She fumbles for some KEYS in a basket by the door, then looks

at the cell phone's recharging cradle.  It's empty.

She spots Norman's coat hanging on the coat rack and rifles

through the pockets.  She finds the phone, and flips it open

to see if it's working.  A drop of something splats on the

phone.  Then another.  It's blood.

She looks up and sees Norman, his forehead gashed, glaring

down from the landing.

She reaches for the door knob, but the keys and cell phone in

her hand make it difficult to open.  Norman hurls himself

over the banister.  THUD!

A BLOODY HAND yanks her backwards.  Claire slams into the

corner by the armoir.  Norman advances on her.  At the last

moment, she throws her shoulder into the armoir which tumbles

over on Norman.

EXT.  DRIVEWAY - NIGHT

Claire races over to the Volvo, which is blocked by NORMAN'S

PICKUP, the dark hulk of THE SAILBOAT on a trailer behind it.

She starts to get into the pickup, then remembers to look in

the bed...nobody there.

INT.  PICKUP - NIGHT

The truck is cold and doesn't want to turn over.  She stares

at the door for signs of Norman.

...and VROOM, the truck roars to life.  Claire spews gravel

as she barrels the cumbersome rig out of the driveway,

constantly watching the door.

When she veers to the right out of the driveway, she looks

into the rear view mirror.  The boat momentarily blocks the

open door, then clears.  Still nothing.

EXT.  DIRT ROAD - NIGHT

Claire wheels the truck and trailer out onto a two-lane road.

INT.  PICKUP - NIGHT

Shivering with cold and adrenalin, she tries to work the

ancient heater.  She turns onto THE BRIDGE.

EXT.  BRIDGE - NIGHT

The PICKUP and BOAT race across the deserted bridge.

INT.  PICKUP - NIGHT

ANGLE

Claire through the windshield.  Her face striped by the

reflection of the bridge lights which whip one-by-one across

the windshield.  She flips open the cell phone and punches in

911.  It blinks:  "NO SERVICE."

She glances into the rear view mirror.

CLAIRE'S POV

A stern section of the boat's COVERING TARP untied, flapping

in the breeze.

Claire desperately punches the "talk" button again..."NO

SERVICE."  She's past the center of the bridge.  She looks

again:  "ROAM."  Claire punches the talk button again.

SMASH!

A TRAILER CRANK punches through the window.  Norman's arm

follows, coiling like a python around Claire's neck, his grim

visage pressed against the glass.

She squashes down the accelerator.

EXT.  BRIDGE - NIGHT

The trailer starts to weave from side to side, swerving the

pickup.  Claire chokes, then blacks out.

EXT.  BRIDGE - NIGHT

The Pickup and trailer smash through the railing, barreling

over bumpy terrain straight toward the BOAT RAMP.

The truck hits the water at fifty and Norman is hurtled

through the rear window and into the passenger side

dashboard.

INT.  PICKUP - MOMENTS LATER

Claire is unconscious in the driver's seat, a trickle of

blood runs from her nose.  Norman stirs briefly as Claire

groggily comes to.  She hears the hissing of the smashed

radiator, then sees Norman, a shattered bloody mess on the

floor of the cab.

She leans over to see if he's dead, hears a squeak and

realizes that the pickup, with the BATTERED SAILBOAT AND

TRAILER miraculously still attached, is rolling deeper into

the water.

Before she can get the door open, the truck is half

submerged.  She frantically manages to lower her window

halfway and starts to pull herself out.

Her ribs have just cleared the glass when a bloody fist locks

onto her ankle and yanks her inside.  Norman pulls her down

until they're face to face.

She yanks the emergency brake, but it's too late...the

submerged wheels lock and slide slowly down the mossy ramp.

The truck is nearly submerged.

The water is up to the windows.  Norman shakes his head

slowly as he blinks away blood from his eyes.

Water sprays in through the hole in the rear window and

momentarily blinds Norman.  Claire jerks free and scrambles

out of the driver's side window as the truck sinks.

Just as she's free of the window, she jerks to a stop.  She

looks down and sees Norman, half out of the window, one hand

clamped onto her ankle.

There is a wrenching metallic creak.  The truck lurches

downward...then silence.  IT DOESN'T SINK.  The boat buoys it

like a fishing cork as it drifts out into the lake.

The headlights pierce the darkness of the steep underwater

drop off.  Claire tries to swim free, but Norman's not

letting go.

Suddenly metal snaps and the truck pops free of the trailer.

It hurtles downwards and the still-glowing headlights

reveal...

MADISON'S SUBMERGED MUSTANG

SMASH!

When the front of the pickup lands on the hood of the car,

the Mustang's windshield shatters.  A PALE SHAPE FLOATS

UPWARD.

Norman is suddenly entangled by something.  He tries to brush

it free but comes face-to-face with MADISON'S GHASTLY,

DECOMPOSED FACE.  The last of his air bellows out of him in a

scream as he releases Claire's ankle.

His dead staring face separates from Madison's as the truck

slowly tilts back and sinks to the bottom.

EXT.  LAKE - DAWN

Claire breaks the surface with a huge intake of air.

UNDERWATER - DAWN

The sound of a furious cello solo.

COLD STARING EYES

Norman, half out of the truck, arms floating.

Follow his eyes to THE PALE CORPSE, drifting above, tethered

to the Mustang by an old seat belt around her ankle.

Move through the murky water toward the corpse's clothed

back.  As she twists into view...

MORPHS INTO:  MADISON'S PALE BEAUTIFUL FACE...at peace.

Camera drifts, moves upward and breaks the surface as the

distant lights of EMERGENCY VEHICLES approach.

FINGERS

...filled with moist earth.  A hand tosses the clump of dirt

onto...

EXT.  CEMETERY - DAY

A CASKET

Widen to reveal Claire, dressed in black, stepping away from

the grave.  A tiny arm snakes around her waist.  She glances

down to see Caitlin, her eyes shining, clasping her mother

tightly.  Claire takes a last look into the grave.

THE GRAVESTONE - MADISON ELIZABETH FRANK

Mother and daughter turn and step back.  Next to them, also

in black, is MRS. FRANK.

FINGERS

Racing across the neck of a cello.  The solo continues and

now reaches the difficult transition that had stumped Claire

before.

WIDEN TO REVEAL

INT.  A LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Claire, her hair short and sexy, eyes tightly shut, brow

beaded with sweat.  The piece builds to a dark, passionate

crescendo.

Her eyes remain shut for a moment, then flutter open.

CLAIRE'S POV

A New York apartment, the glimmering skyline visible through

a large window.  Cooper gazes up attentively.

Claire sips a glass of wine, her face unsmiling, but serene.

