1. COVERED RIDING SCHOOL OF THE MANORIAL ESTATE INT/DAY

MONTAGE OF CLOSE-SHOTS:

A man is riding a dressage horse. We can't see his face.

Only his boots, spurs, whip, the taut reins, the horse's

foamy mouth, the movements that steer the animal.

We watch him for a while and hear the SNORTS of the

horse, the dull SOUND of THE HOOVES on the ground, the

fast-uttered COMMANDS of the rider. Then we start to

hear a gentle voice:

LONG SHOT OF THE RIDING STABLES.

The rider is the village doctor, a gaunt, intellectual-

looking man of around 60, who has finished his dressage

session, and now rides toward the open gate beside the

CAMERA, goes through it and into the landscape. We see

him in the avenue, now visible behind him, and watch him

grow smaller until he vanishes.

2.   THE DOCTOR'S PROPERTY EXT/DAY

The garden opens up on the meadows and fields of the

flat countryside.

The doctor lies beside his wounded horse. His arm is

strangely twisted, his broken collarbone has made a bump

in the blood-drenched jacket. He yells with pain.

After a few moments Xenia, the doctor's 12-year old

daughter, comes running out of the house. She rushes up

to her father and looks at him, horrified, then at the

twitching horse, screams with horror. Her father shouts

something to her, she bends over him and tries to raise

him to his feet. He screams at her as he's in such pain.

She staggers back helplessly, he shouts something to her

again, whereupon she runs off. We hear all this from far

away, because during the whole scene the narrator has

continued his tale:

3.   VILLAGE-STREET AND SCHOOL EXT/DAY

TRACKING SHOT:

Emilie Wagner, a skinny, modestly dressed woman in her

late thirties hurries along the village street.

A few children pass Emilie and greet her. Then she

reaches the school. The door is open. The schoolchildren

stream out.

We see the schoolteacher, a slight man, hardly 30 years

old, talking inside to some of the older students.

Martin, a tall gangly boy of around 12, whose elegant

clothes make him stand out among the other children

coming out of the school, turns to the midwife:

He's interrupted by Marie, a delicate, pretty and polite

girl of around 13 who has the odd characteristic of

already behaving like an adult.

The midwife is tired of Marie's precocious and endless

questions. She peers over the heads of children

surrounding them, looking for someone in the classroom.

She has seen her son, who's coming out of the door: he

is a mongoloid boy of 8. His name is Hans. He hesitates,

as he sees his mother surrounded by the others. The

midwife leaves the group and goes over to him.

The schoolteacher comes in.

Hans looks doubtfully, first at the schoolteacher, then

at his mother, who nods at him encouragingly. After

hesitating for a second, he starts to SING:

MARIE turns to leave.

Her saying good-bye acts as an invitation to the other

children: they also SAY GOOD-BYE, though some less

distinctively, and follow the girl.

TRACKING SHOT with the children. After a short distance,

Georg, a strong boy of around 13, shouts, encouraging

the others:

Then he sprints off. Most of the children follow him.

But Marie and some of the other kids merely walk off at

a brisk pace.

The CAMERA, that stopped when Georg ran off, now FOLLOWS

Marie, so that, after a while, the others can be seen

again at the far end of the street.

4.   THE DOCTOR'S HOUSE INT/DAY

Xenia, who is herself in a pitiful condition, holds her

four-year-old brother Rudolph on her knees. She rocks

him and herself back and forth. As his head is bowed, we

can only guess that he's crying. After a while

No reaction.

Rudolph shakes his head faintly.

No reaction.

No reaction. Xenia ends up pressing her head helplessly

against her little brother's head and mutters:

They remain that way for a while. Finally Xenia raises

Rudolph high enough so she can stand up:

Rudolph merely shakes his bowed head. Xenia kneels down

in front of her brother and tries to look into his eyes,

but the boy bows his head even deeper.

A NOISE makes her cock her ear: it's as if something had

hit the window in the next room.

Xenia stands up and listens. SILENCE. And then, after

listening for a while, once again the same noise.

She goes into the OTHER ROOM and, hiding behind the

curtain, looks out.

Outside, the group of children are gathered around

Marie. They look up at the house. They're waiting for

something.

After a while, Georg, the boy who earlier had urged them

to race, throws another stone at the window. Xenia is

startled. She hesitates. Finally, she opens the window.

Xenia doesn't answer. After a while

5.   MANOR EXT/NIGHT

The steward of the estate, a heavy set rustic man in his

mid fifties, is talking with the landowner (who's about

the same age). They are standing beside a team of

carthorses. With a torch the steward lights up a dead

horse that lies on the ground after being towed in by

the carthorses.

The landowner bends down and examines the wounds on the

pasterns of the dead animal's front legs.

6.   MANOR. LIVING ROOM ON THE TOP FLOOR. INT/NIGHT

Sigi, the 9-year old son of the landowner stands at the

window, and watches his father and the steward standing

in the torchlight beside the dead horse.

In the background MUSIC (Piano/violin).

After a short while the two men down in the courtyard

separate: the landowner heads to the manor, the steward

with the team of carthorses to a farm building.

Sigi turns away from the window and looks into the room.

There his mother Beatrix, a beautiful, nervous woman in

her late thirties, is sitting at a baby grand piano.

Beside her stands the tutor, holding a violin tucked

under his chin. He looks as if he's in his late

twenties, plump and slightly greasy, and obviously

infatuated with his beautiful employer, who has just

interrupted her playing with an annoyed sigh.

Beatrix looks up at him with a quick amused smile, then

turns back the pages of her sheet music.

The tutor does the same, they glance at each other and

start again.

Sigi watches them from the window, then he saunters in,

stops some distance away and watches. Then he saunters

away again.

Suddenly, Beatrix stops playing again.

Sigi bows his head ashamed, but doesn't move.

The tutor pulls out his pocket watch.

Sigi nods.

With a little caustic smile, she taps beside her on the

piano bench. Sigi comes over sits down beside her and

looks at the sheet music. Beatrix turns the pages back.

They PLAY again. Sigi reads the music with her, then

turns the page.

7.   RECTORY. DINING ROOM. INT/NIGHT

Marie and Martin come through the door and stand in

front of it.

At the dinner table, the pastor (in his mid-forties)

sits with his back to the door. In front of him, at the

other end of the table, sits his wife Anna, a woman in

her late forties. On the sides of the table sit the

children:

Anton (11), Magdalena (10), Katharina (9) and Florian

(7). Two other places are empty.

The table is set for 8 people, but the plates are empty.

SILENCE.

SILENCE. Then the pastor speaks very quietly, without

turning to the two children:

He turns around toward the two children:

The two remain silent, their heads bowed. The pastor

turns his back to them again, and faces the table.

He stands up, followed by the mother and the children

who were sitting at the table. Again he turns to the two

wrongdoers:

The children who were sitting at the table go first to

their mother, then to their father. They kiss their

hands and leave the room. As Marie and Martin want to do

the same, the father says

As the two children are about to leave the room, he says

8.    THE DOCTOR'S PROPERTY EXT/DAY

CLOSE ANGLE: one of the trees to which the wire was tied

that tripped up the doctor's horse. A policeman is

looking for clues.

With him are Xenia, Rudolph, the midwife and her son

Hans.

The    two  boys   don't  show   much  interest  in   the

investigation. They run after each other in the garden

and the neighboring fields. Hans especially seems enjoy

this, and is shrieking with delight.

The midwife looks at Xenia, who shrugs her shoulders.

Xenia, uncertain, looks at the midwife.

The policeman turns to the midwife:

Neither the midwife nor Xenia know what to answer. At

that moment Hans comes running in from the field,

excited:

Indeed, as the midwife sets outs for the field, a group

of people hurry along the path bordering the doctor's

property, and cross our POV. They carry a body on a

makeshift stretcher. The policeman and Xenia follow the

midwife. The group vanishes as quickly as it appeared

behind the surrounding bushes.

As the group was approaching, we have been hearing

9.   FARM INT/DAY

It's very dark in the low-ceilinged room. Small windows.

A couple of women in peasant dresses take care of the

dead woman, who's been laid out on the bed. The women

remove her clothes and wash her.

Everything happens very silently. An elderly woman, a

midwife specialized in bathing, takes care of the

proceedings.

Every time the door is opened, one hears the mutterings

of the people waiting outside. Soiled water is carried

out, new underwear brought in, and the women start to

clothe the naked corpse again.

Outside, the sounds of excited VOICES are getting

louder. Then the door opens and the farmer (around

fifty) enters the room. The old midwife turns around

angrily:

Reluctantly, the old midwife abandons her half completed

work, not without having spread the dress she had draped

over the still half-naked body of the dead woman. The

other women follow her, embarrassed.

Once the door has closed behind them, the farmer just

stands there. Only after a long while does he move

forward and sit beside his dead wife. He remains seated,

motionless. For a very long time. He only tugs once at

the dress draped over the half-naked body, as if he

wanted to cover a patch of nudity. Then he just sits

there again in the dark room, and only his halting

breath lets us know that any moment he may cry.

10. A RIVER AND MEADOW WITH BRIDGE EXT/DAY

With his net and his fishing rod the schoolteacher is

landing a fish.

Suddenly, the schoolteacher stops dead: like a tightrope

walker Martin is walking along on the top of the wall of

the bridge, thirty feet above the riverbed.

The boy doesn't seem to hear him and keeps up his

balancing act.

The boy keeps at it.

The schoolteacher quickly wades ashore, throws his

fishing rod and the net and the wriggling fish on the

gravel beside the river and climbs up the river bank.

When he gets on top, he sees the boy balancing himself

at the other end of the bridge.

The boy takes a few more steps, then reaches the end of

the wall and jumps down onto the bridge. Hesitatingly,

he turns to the schoolteacher, who comes toward him.

The schoolteacher has reached him.

The boy remains silent, keeping his head bent down.

The boy remains silent.

Keeping his head bowed, the boy shrugs a little. The

schoolteacher, realizing that this won't get him any

further, tries again, talking in a gentle voice:

The boy shakes his head.

Pause.

The boy stops answering, his head bowed again. The

schoolteacher remains silent and looks at him for a

while. Then, he adds softly:

Martin looks up reluctantly.

Martin remains silent. He doesn't dare look down, and

instead looks past the schoolteacher.

The schoolteacher realizes that there's no use in

talking any further.

Martin turns and faces the schoolteacher, and says in

such a pleading voice that it startles him:

Martin just looks pleadingly at the schoolteacher and

shakes his head, as if to stress his request.

11. SAWMILL INT/DAY

Franz, the farmer eldest son, is searching for evidence

of his mother's accident. He is accompanied by the

neighbor's son Matti, a slight boy of around 16.

The sawmill is a ramshackle wooden building beside the

river.

Matti, who obviously was there when the accident

happened, shows Franz the place.

Franz moves slowly forward. He looks down at the lower

floor. Immediately below: the saw. Franz steps back

carefully and turns to Matti:

12. STREET AT THE END OF THE VILLAGE EXT/DAY

.

The schoolteacher with his fishing gear and several fish

that he caught.

Eva (18), a redhead, somewhat chubby, but pretty girl,

crosses him way on her bicycle. A big bag is strapped to

the baggage carrier.

The schoolteacher stops, turns to the girl:

We hear the bicycle stopping.

The schoolteacher has turned around and now moves toward

the girl.

Now Eva laughs too.

She nods at the fish. The absurdity of the suggestion

amuses her. At the same time she doesn't really know how

to behave.

The schoolteacher holds up the fish, laughs, as if he

himself doesn't how he got this idea.

The both laugh. Pause. Then the girl points at the bag

on the baggage carrier of her bicycle and says

regretfully:

The schoolteacher has a new "idea ":

The schoolteacher shrugs his shoulders with a smile

("why not").

Embarrassed pause. Then

Pause.

Pause. Then

She's about to ride off.

They look at each other for a while and then Eva rides

off. The CAMERA FOLLOWS her. Eva and the bicycle are

tottering a bit. The girl looks around and shouts,

laughing:

13. THE DOCTOR'S HOUSE INT/DUSK

It's still too early to switch on the light.

Xenia and little Rudolph are sitting in the kitchen,

eating. For quite a while. Suddenly

Pause. Then

Xenia looks up from her meal.

SILENCE. Then

Xenia looks up from her meal again. Now she tries to

talk more seriously to her brother because she

understands that these questions matter to him. But

she's also feeling uneasy and put on.

Long PAUSE.

Long PAUSE. Then

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

Both remain SILENT. In the meantime it has grown dark in

the kitchen.

Suddenly, Rudolph brushes away his plate off the table

with an angry movement, and turns away from Xenia. The

plate shatters on the floor.

At first Xenia is stunned, paralyzed. Then she starts to

sob, but tries to hide it from her brother.

14. RECTORY. DINING ROOM. INT/NIGHT

While we hear the SOUNDS of the punishment and the

children being beaten, COUNTING the strokes with

increasing MOANS and stifled WHINING, we see (CLOSE

ANGLES) the faces of the other brothers and sisters.

Some have turned away their faces, and others start to

cry with pity and fear.

Finally both have received their 10 strokes.

CLOSE ANGLE: The pastor. He is breathless and beads of

sweat on his forehead.

He hands Martin the cane. CLOSE ANGLE: Martin.

As Martin is about to go, his father goes on:

He first hugs Marie who, her face still wet with tears,

tries a forced smile and then Martin. Then, the pastor

turns to his wife:

Anna goes toward the two children, tying a white ribbon

around Martin's upper arm and another in Marie's hair.

Martin carries the cane out of the room. The pastor and

the other children sit around the table. Marie leaves

the room with her mother. After all the others have sat

down and put their plates back where they were before

the punishment, the two come back with two soup bowls

and put them on the table. Martin has also come back and

sits down at his place beside his father.

The pastor folds his hands in prayer, the others follow

suit.

She bows her head, so do the others.

The mother and Marie open the soup tureens and hand out

the soup. Then they eat.

15. FARM INT/NIGHT

The body of the farmer's wife has been laid out. The

candles to its left and right are almost burnt out.

Its very quiet.

Little five-year old Sepp sneaks into the room, bare-

foot and wearing a shirt. He hesitates. Then, slowly and

carefully, he comes over to his dead mother. He ends up

standing beside the bed. The face of the dead woman is

covered with a white handkerchief.

Sepp is very frightened. He makes several attempts

before he dares to lift the handkerchief. Then he

watches her, breathless, his eyes and mouth wide open.

Suddenly, startled by a noise, he jerks back. He turns

around: his 14-year old brother Paul is sitting on a

bench against the wall. He too only wears a shirt.

Paul doesn't say a word. Sepp doesn't know what to do.

He looks at his mother again, then again at his brother.

He goes over to him and sits beside him on the bench.

Like birds in a cage, they remain seated in the dark.

Very close together.

16. ESTATE. THE STEWARD'S HOUSE. LIVING ROOM. BEDROOM.

INT/NIGHT

The steward and his children Liesl (15), Georg and

Ferdinand (10)] are waiting for something. Then the door

opens and the midwife comes out. She tells them to come

into the other room.

The children want to follow their father. At least

Liesl, a chubby and good-natured teenager, rather plain,

can't wait to go in. But the midwife tells them to be

patient, and only the father is let through.

Instead of the father, Georg hits his brother on the

back of the head. They quarrel.

She steps in and distributes a few smacks. Liesl runs

out of the room howling.

The midwife looks at him, confused.

17. TRACK NEAR THE FARM EXT/DAWN

The farmer, Franz and Paul leave the farm, they go to

work. The two oldest carry scythes.

In the background vast fields of crops.

The three walk hurriedly. After a while

The farmer keeps on walking as if he hasn't heard. Franz

looks at him from the side. For a long moment he remains

silent, while all three keep walking. Then, Franz goes

on softly:

They keep on walking.

The farmer remains silent. They keep walking.

The farmer stops, turns to Franz:

He turns away from Franz and keeps on walking. The

others follow. After a few steps

Suddenly the farmer stops and screams, almost crying

with fury and despair:

CLOSE ANGLE: Paul. He was listening carefully the whole

time. He looks at the father. Then, lowers his eyes.

18. MONTAGE EXT/INS./DAY/NIGHT

a) Harvesting. Even teenagers and children are used to

tie the sheaves and to do other easier jobs.

b) The midwife is doing housework in the Doctor's house.

A quarrel between her retarded son and the 4-year old

Rudolph (that we barely can follow due to the Narrator's

voice, o.s.) is settled by the midwife in favor of her

son.

19.   MANOR EXT/DAY

The courtyard is full of people, dressed in their Sunday

best:   Farmers,  seasonal-workers,   people  from   the

village, children and teenagers.

A dance hall has been set up. On it we see the

landowner, the steward and the pastor with their

families.

A couple of younger women, a delegation of the

harvesters, goes over to present the harvest crown to

the landowner.

During the poem, the camera has shown all those we have

met until now. They have all ( except for the Doctor,

the farmer and his two eldest sons) come to the feast.

While all the folks present LAUGH and SHOUT, the maid,

with a clumsy curtsy, hands over the harvest crown to

the Baron. The village band plays a fanfare.

As soon as the hullabaloo has died down

He points to the open barn, where food and beer are

waiting. In front of the barn are tables with long

benches.

Again the people YELL and CHEER. Then, the MUSIC starts

and the feast is off and running.

20. VEGETABLE GARDEN OF THE MANOR EXT/DAY

The vegetable garden is at the back of the manor house.

In the distance we hear the MUSIC from the feast.

Franz, in working clothes, comes over, opens a gate in

the fence, then goes to a large field with the cabbages

and slices them all off with his scythe. The whole scene

looks like a mass execution.

21. ESTATE EXT/DAY

The party is in full swing: people dance and shout,

children run around, young men quarrel and show off in

front of the young girls. Older women are stand around

in groups, gossiping. Some farmers are gathered around

the landowner  he is friendly with them, but we don't

understand what they're talking about.

His wife, with her nervous frailty, looks out of place

in this crowd. She's talking to the schoolteacher.

22. ESTATE. UNDER THE LIME TREE . EXT/DAY

A quieter part of the estate.

Under a big shadowy tree, we see the two strollers of

the landowner's family, a small table and a few chairs.

Eva is sitting beside the twins and watches the colorful

bustle. Sitting beside her, turning her back to the

manor, is Emma, the steward's wife who is breastfeeding

her baby.

The steward separates from a group of men and comes over

to the two women. As he comes over, he shouts to them:

Eva looks at the steward's wife, not knowing, how to

react to the "mother joke". But the slightly naive wife

of the steward is basically fond of any jokes her

husband cracks. She turns halfway to him and says:

In the meantime the steward has come over. He's smoking

a pipe.

He gives his wife a short glance, then sits on a chair

beside Eva:

23. ESTATE. THE PATH LEADING TO THE VEGETABLE GARDEN.

EXT/DAY

A bunch of children between 5 and 15, dressed up in

their Sunday best, among them Marie and Martin, both

wearing  their  white  ribbons,  the  pastor's  other

children, Xenia, Rudolph as well as Hans, Liesl, Georg,

Ferdinand and Sigi. They leave the manor and head toward

the fields. As they pass by the vegetable garden, they

notice the sliced off cabbages and stop. Some laugh at

it, others are unsettled. Most of the children keep run

on out into the open fields.

24. ESTATE. OUTSIDE THE BARN. EXT/DAY

Farmhands and tenant farmers are eating at the tables.

One of them tells a story, that we only partially

understand because of all the noise:

At the same time someone else starts to shout, causing

the others to join in:

Laughter. Leni, Franz's sister, and another farmgirl do

their best to cater to the drinker's thirst as fast as

possible. The two young women try to keep their spirits

up, but the guest's indelicate jokes and rude gestures

don't make it easy.

LAUGHTER.

More LAUGHTER.

At the same time a boy of ten comes over to the first

farmer and butts in to his story:

Leni, who's just putting some glasses with beer on the

table, glares at the boy, flabbergasted.

25.   ESTATE. DANCE FLOOR. EXT/DAY

On the dance floor, Eva and the schoolteacher try to

dance. Neither is very talented. Eva keeps looking at

her feet and smiles, embarrassed.

Their steps are far too big. They look clumsy and

embarrassed, but happy. After a few spins

Eva laughs, embarrassed and looks down.

She lifts her head, looks at him and... stumbles. They

laugh and start again.

26. VEGETABLE GARDEN EXT/DAY

MUSIC of the village band can be heard coming from the

manor.

The Baroness reaches the vegetable garden, followed by

the pastor's wife, the tutor and some "ladies" from the

village. Behind the fence, among the "beheaded" cabbages

are the Baron, the steward and some farmers. A couple of

curious onlookers have gathered by the fence. Mutters,

and now and then laughter.

The Baron turns to his wife and, with a snicker, points

to the "heads" lying around him.

The Baroness looks at the extent of the disaster. Then

says, revolted:

The steward comes over to them and, with a little grin,

comments on the sensitivity of his masters:

The Baroness, who doesn't think the symbolic character

of the deed is funny at all, looks briefly at him and

then back again at the cabbage cemetery. Suddenly, she

turns away and leaves the scene headed toward the manor.

She makes her way through the bystanders, who step aside

to let her through.

27. RECTORY. STUDY. INT/DUSK

The pastor works at his desk. Suddenly a KNOCK on the

door

Florian comes hesitantly through the door.

The boy comes over to the desk, opens a few buttons of

his shirt and then seizes something inside. In the open

shirt we see the head of a little bird.

Short PAUSE.

Short pause. The pastor is moved by the request of his

youngest    son,  but   manages  to   hide   his emotion

skillfully.

Florian looks at him with round eyes, he doesn't know

what to answer. The pastor continues:

Florian thinks, then nods toward a cage behind the desk.

The pastor looks at the cage shortly, hides a smile and

turns to Florian again:

Florian doesn't know what to answer. So he merely looks

at his father with pleading eyes.

Florian, looks down and nods with a heavy heart.

Florian nods eagerly.

Florian nods eagerly and looks at his father with eyes

that are pleading with expectation.

Sensing that his father is not quite against it, Florian

nods eagerly.

Florian nods yet more eagerly, if that's possible. The

pastor finds it difficult not to smile:

Florian can hardly believe it. He'd like to fling his

arms around his father's neck, but doesn't dare. So he

just keeps standing there, beaming.

28. TRACK TO THE FARM EXT/DUSK

Leni comes along the track, excited. She`s almost

running. She reaches the farm and disappears inside.

29. FARM. ROOM. INT/DUSK

The family is eating. They're in working clothes, since

they didn't attend the Thanksgiving feast. Only Leni,

who visibly just came into the room, is still wearing

the clothes she wore at the feast. She's out of breath

and very excited. The farmer looks very concerned.

Franz doesn't answer and keeps on eating.

For a moment Franz remains calm, then he bursts out:

The father responds to this by slapping his face hard.

Franz jumps up.

For a moment, we don't know how Franz will behave.

Sitting on the corner bench, he's jammed between his

father and his brothers and sisters, who stare at the

table, embarrassed. Only Paul, who sits opposite his

brother, looks up at him.

Franz finally sits down again. SILENCE. The farmer

stares at his plate, tries to speak softly, which is

obviously difficult for him, to judge by the sound of

his voice.

As Franz doesn't answer, he looks up, right into Franz's

face, who avoids his father's eyes.

Franz keeps on glaring straight ahead. The farmer adopts

a gentler tone.

Franz keeps on glaring, remaining silent. The father

tries to stay calm, staring straight ahead. He takes a

spoon and eats twice from the milk soup. He puts down

the spoon, and looks at Franz again.

Franz makes an impatient movement, takes raises            his

spoon and wants to go on eating. The farmer grabs          his

arm and slams it down. The two stare at each other.        For

a moment, we don't know what will happen. Then             the

farmer goes on:

Franz turns his head away. He disagrees, but does not

know what to answer. The farmer goes on:

Franz turns to him abruptly:

The farmer looks at Franz with round eyes. A long PAUSE

follows. Then the

And after another PAUSE.

30. MANOR. STAIRWELL. INT/NIGHT

The Baron stands at the bottom and shouts up at the

tutor who's standing on the stairs:

Furious, the landowner turns away from the nincompoop,

pensive. Then he turns to the TUTOR again:

The Baron turns away and heads for the door. Then he

turns around again and asks:

He turns away and goes out into the courtyard. The tutor

follow him with his eyes. He feels he's being badly

treated and hates the Baron for his insults. Finally he

goes back up the stairs.

31. MANOR. EXT/NIGHT

BACK TO THE SCENE.

The torches of the feast have almost burned out. Here

and there we see some lanterns, put there to facilitate

the cleaning up.

Coming from the front door, the Baron crosses the vast

courtyard. Half way across he screams:

The steward is overseeing a dozen farmhands, who are

putting the tables and the benches of the feast back the

barn. He walks toward the Baron.

The steward goes to his house, the Baron         to   the

outbuildings. There, he switches on the SIREN.

32. MONTAGE EXT/INT/NIGHT

IN THE COURTYARD.

Many men of different ages with lanterns and torches.

The Baron makes a short speech and the steward assigns

the areas to be searched. Most of this is drowned out by

the narrator's voice.

STABLE AND OUTBUILDINGS OF THE ESTATE.

VARIOUS LANDSCAPES: FOREST, FIELD, RIVER MEADOWS.

The search.

IN THE COURTYARD.

The men come in with a stretcher.

33. CHURCH INT/DAY

The room is packed. The whole village is gathered.

Unrest in the attendance.

The farmer, Leni and the other children are there, with

the exception of Franz.

The unrest grows.

The farmer wants to leave the church.

Disconcerted MUTTER among the attendance.

The pastor says a few last words which we don't grasp,

that the narrator's voice drowns out. The people file

out of the church, quietly and slowly, but talking

worriedly to each other.

34. IN FRONT OF THE CHURCH EXT/DAY

BACK TO THE SCENE.

The people are leaving the church, groups are forming.

As the farmer Felder and his children come out, they're

shunned.

Gauntlet down the village street. The CAMERA follows.

35. SCHOOL. INT/NIGHT

The empty classroom. On the harmonium: a petroleum lamp.

The schoolteacher is PLAYING.

After a while, someone knocks at the door. The

schoolteacher stops.

The door opens hesitantly. In the dark: Eva (hardly

recognizable because she's so far from the lamp).

The Schoolteacher stands up, goes toward and, laughing

with surprise, says to her.

Eva enters the room and closes the door behind her.

She's carrying a suitcase. Shyly she looks around and

doesn't say a word.

He moves toward the lamp and waits half-way because she

doesn't follow.

She shrugs her shoulders.

Suddenly, in the middle of a sentence, she bursts into

floods of tears. At the same time she turns away from

the schoolteacher. He goes over to her, and stops in

front of her, but is too shy to touch her. Suddenly she

turns to him again and says, sobbing:

She's sits down on the school bench beside her. The

schoolteacher sits on his haunches in front of her:

It takes her time to calm down.

Slowly she manages to calm down, breathes deeply a few

times. The schoolteacher is visibly charmed by her

childish despair.

She starts to sob again:

Long PAUSE. Then she says softly:

Suddenly she starts to cry again:

PAUSE. Then the

She stops crying and looks at him, surprised.

PAUSE. Then the schoolteacher stands up and says:

She thinks for a moment, then she nods eagerly. She

follows him, as he goes and settles in front of the

harmonium. She sits on a bench nearby. He starts to

PLAY.

36. FARM. PIGSTY. INT/EXT/DAY

The farmer and Paul are cleaning the pigsty which is not

very big. The pigs grunt excitedly because of the

disturbance.

Suddenly, Franz enters.

The farmer looks up, keeps on working as if nobody had

come in.

Paul greets Franz with a nod, remaining silent.

After a while, they've done their work. Ignoring Franz,

the farmer goes outside.

Franz, who has stepped aside to let his father by, says

to him as he goes out:

At this, the farmer stops and turns around. He looks

Franz right into the eyes:

Franz bows his head. Paul, who has followed his father,

out of the pigsty, glances surreptitiously at his

brother. The farmer goes over to the fountain and washes

himself. Franz follows him slowly and stops beside his

father, who keeps ignoring him. After a while

The farmer stops washing and turns to Franz:

37. COUNTRY ROAD AND DOCTOR'S PROPERTY EXT/DAY

The CAMERA follows the carriage in which are Eva and the

schoolteacher.

An open carriage with the Doctor inside comes from the

opposite direction. The passengers of the two carriages

greet each other. The CAMERA follows the Doctor and

looses Eva and the schoolteacher.

The doctor has one arm in a sling.

The Doctor's carriage ends up turning into his property.

The driver helps the doctor get out. Xenia comes running

out of the house and greets her father. The driver

unloads the luggage. The doctor and Xenia go into the

house.

38. THE DOCTOR'S HOUSE INT/DAY

BACK TO THE SCENE.

STAIRWELL.

He throws an ironical inquiring look at Xenia. Xenia

shrugs her shoulders, clueless:

Just as they're about to go to the living room, the

driver comes in with the luggage. The Doctor thanks him

and pays him. The driver leaves. Xenia has been waiting

in the doorway. Now they go together into the

LIVING ROOM

There's nobody. They go into the kitchen

KITCHEN. Nobody. The look under the kitchen table, in

the pantry. Nobody.

Again the

STAIRWELL. The doctor doesn't know whether to be angry

or to laugh about the whole matter. He goes to his

wardrobe to take his off his jacket. Because of the

sling, Xenia has to help him. That's when she notices

the toilet. She tells her father with a smile. As Xenia

hangs up the doctor's jacket, he goes to the toilet door

and tries to open it. It's locked. The Doctor stops in

front of it.

PAUSE:

PAUSE. The doctor looks shortly at Xenia who's carrying

the luggage upstairs. Then he keeps on talking to

Rudolph:

He goes down the few steps to the entrance, waits a

moment and then leaves the house.

39. PROPERTY THE DOCTOR'S EXT/DAY

BACK TO THE scene.

The doctor steps out of the door, and wanders through

the garden. He goes over to the trees, where the wire

had been strung. He examines the traces of the wire on

the bark. He lights a cigar, then looks out at the mowed

fields.

After a while Xenia comes over to him. He glances at

her, then again at the fields. Both remain silent. After

a while

PAUSE then

Xenia looks at him, surprised, shrugs her shoulders.

PAUSE.

PAUSE. The doctor turns to Xenia:

The doctor looks at her, laughs silently and shakes his

head. Again he looks out on the fields. After a while he

says:

Xenia remains silent. Suddenly she whispers:

The doctor turns to her. She nods toward the house. The

doctor follows her look. Indeed Rudolph, who from here

looks even smaller than he really is, has stepped

gingerly out of the door. Unsure and undecided, torn

between defiance and longing, he's kept one hand on the

door handle that he can barely reach.

40. RECTORY. STUDY. INT/NIGHT

The pastor cleans the cage of the small bird behind the

desk and feeds the animal. As he does it, he talks to

Martin, who, the white ribbon still tied around his

upper arm, stands in front of the desk.

The pastor turns shortly around to his son, looks at

him, then turns again to the bird.

The pastor has finished the cleaning and feeding, and

now sits down behind his desk, Martin opposite him:

The pastor watches Martin:

Martin reacts with a timid nod of his head.

Martin doesn't know what to say, he looks down. The

pastor watches him for a long moment, then he gets up,

walks around the desk and sits down on its edge, in

front of the boy, so that their heads are facing each

other.

Martin seems very affected. He has bowed his head,

swallows several times, and hardly dares to breath.

Martin looks up fearfully, then immediately looks away

again.

Martin looks his father in the eyes.

He cries in a such pitiful way that even the pastor has

tears in his eyes. He embraces the boy. The latter

seizes the hand of his father and kisses it intensely.

THE SCREEN GOES BLACK.

41. THE MIDWIFE'S HOUSE. LIVING ROOM. INT/NIGHT

Intercourse between the midwife and the doctor. She

holds on to the sideboard, as he penetrates her from

behind. Both are fully dressed, she has just lifted her

skirt.

When he is ready, she turns around and puts her arms

around him. He lets her do it, with a patronizing smile

and pulls gently away from her.

She tries to hide her frustration, sits down again with

him at the table, on which are the leftovers of their

meal. With a little ironic smile, the doctor raises his

glass to her. She takes her glass and clinks it with

his. She drinks. An embarrassed silence follows.

Finally, she says

PAUSE.

PAUSE. Then:

LONG PAUSE.

PAUSE.

After a pause, she reaches over the table, takes his

hand, puts her cheek against it. He lets her do it, then

takes his hand from under her head and strokes her hair.

42. CHURCH EXT/DAY

It's snowing. From the inside of the church, we hear the

children's choir:

CHILDREN (singing in harmony):

Over this:

43. CHURCH INT/DAY

IMMEDIATE BACK TO THE scene.

The community celebrates the Reformation Feast.

The schoolteacher conducts the children's choir. The

children sing enthusiastically. Marie and Martin wear

the white ribbon on their arm.

44. THE STEWARD'S HOUSE. INT/NIGHT

The doctor examines the steward's baby that is crying.

Finally, he turns to the parents.

While the mother puts the child back in the cradle, the

doctor and the father go down the STAIRWAY to the LIVING

ROOM.

They have reached the living room where Liesl, Georg and

Ferdinand get up as he comes in.

The children seem worried. To calm them the doctor adds:

The steward has gone to the sideboard.

At a sign of the father, Georg jumps up and gets the

doctor's coat and hat from outside. In the meantime, the

father keeps on chatting with the doctor:

Georg has come back with the hat and the coat, and hands

them to the doctor,

The steward helps him with his coat because of his bad

arm.

The steward closes the door to the stairwell, so that we

can't grasp the rest of their conversation.

The children are alone. They remain silent. Then

PAUSE.

45. SNOW-COVERED COUNTRY ROAD EXT/DAY

The schoolteacher, a rucksack on his back, walks through

the snow which is only furrowed by some carriage tracks.

46. THE HORSE-TRADER'S LIVING-ROOM INT/DAY

A lower middle-class room.

The schoolteacher sits in front of Eva and her siblings,

6 children between 14 and 6, mostly red-haired like Eva.

Embarrassed silence. The younger children whisper and

giggle. The conversation is slow. After a long pause

PAUSE.   The   children    giggle,   amused   over    the

embarrassment of the two people.

The schoolteacher and Eva look at each other, but Eva

soon averts her eyes.

At that moment the door opens and Eva's parents come in.

Obviously, the mother went to fetch the father. She is

plump, in her late forties and only wears a woolen shawl

over her shoulders. The father wears a hat and overcoat.

He's a sturdy man in his early fifties, of peasant

stock. He probably came straight from a tavern, and

appears to be slightly drunk. The schoolteacher, Eva and

the children stand up. The schoolteacher bows deeply:

They shake hands.

With a short movement of his hand the father invites him

to sit down.

The children, rather sheepish since the arrival of their

father, leave the room. The father unbuttons his over

coat, throws the hat on the sofa and sits down. The

mother has removed her shawl and asks the schoolteacher:

The father sits      down beside Eva and looks at the

schoolteacher. Eva    appears to be awkward, and stares at

the table in front   of her.

Short embarrassed PAUSE.

PAUSE.

Eva and the schoolteacher don't know where to look.

Eva wishes the earth would engulf her.

Eva jumps up and runs out, so as not to burst into tears

out of shame.

The mother follows her, shaking her head disapprovingly

at the father. The schoolteacher stands up, as Eva ran

out. He'd rather follow her, but has to remain polite

toward the father. The father says calmly:

He holds out his hand to the schoolteacher, who accepts

it after a brief hesitation.

He leaves the room. The schoolteacher is thrown off

balance by all this. He stands up and takes a few steps.

He sits down again and thinks.

Finally, the door opens and Eva enters. She doesn't

really know what to do. Neither does the schoolteacher.

As she comes in he stands up again. Finally Eva goes

over to the table and sits down. The schoolteacher also

sits down. They exchange a short glance and an equally

brief smile.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

Eva looks up. Their eyes meet. Then she takes his hand

in her hand. They remain seated without saying a word.

47. RECTORY. THE BOYS' BEDROOM. INT/NIGHT

It is dark. Martin, Anton and Florian, whom we don't

recognize at first glance, are lying in their beds.

Through the window, a red glow, slowly getting stronger.

Suddenly

Now, Anton sits up slowly, rubs his eyes.

Anton turns to the window and looks at the red glow.

Then he slips out of the bed and goes to the window.

Suddenly, he is wide-awake:

Anton turns around to Martin, hesitates.

Anton doesn't really know what to do. He turns to the

window again, then again to Martin. The latter screams

angrily:

The loud dispute has now also awakened Florian, who says

in a drowsy voice:

Florian gets up himself and patters to the window. He

looks out and then says, amazed and enthusiastic:

Florian looks at Anton with questioning eyes and then

says to Martin:

Reverse angle POV of the two boys at the window toward

Martin, who we see for the first from the front. His

wrists are tied to the left and the right side of the

bed. Trying sit up, he pulls furiously at his ties.

Frightened by his screams, Anton now goes over to him

and undoes his ties.

We already hear hurried STEPS in the corridor. The door

opens and the mother enters, dressed in a nightgown.

Martin has just been untied.

In the door, the girls appear after their mother. They

have left their room attracted by the noise. The mother

turns to them:

The girls disappear again. The mother turns to Martin:

Martin doesn't know what to answer. Then he says

apologetically:

The three boys go back to bed. But first Anton ties up

Martin's hands again. He pulls a blanket over his

brother. Then they all disappear under their blankets.

The mother closes the door. Coming from outside, we can

see the glow of the fire.

48. ESTATE EXT/NIGHT

ESTABLISHING SHOT.

A big barn is blazing   fiercely. SOUNDS of the FIRE.

Against it we see,       as silhouettes, the Baron, the

steward and his wife,   the pastor, and all those, who are

vainly trying to save   thing.

49. THE STEWARD'S HOUSE INT/NIGHT

In the children's bedroom, lit by the reflection from

the nearby flames: Liesl, Georg and Ferdinand. They

stand at the window and stare into the flames.

50. FARM BUILDINGS /EXT/DAY

Paul discovers his dead father in the pigsty. The farmer

has hung himself up from a hook in the wall. The

knocked-over stool still lies beneath his dangling feet.

Paul runs from the stable out to the

courtyard. He stops.

Then he tiptoes toward the stable door. As he touches

the stable door, he lacks the strength to go inside

again. Slowly he heads for the living room. The

children, who are gathered, pay no attention to him.

Leni, who's cooking, has looked up from her work

briefly. Paul sits down on the bench against the wall.

It is quite dark in there.

51. THE DOCTOR'S HOUSE. OFFICE. INT/DAY

The doctor sits at his desk, the midwife sits on the

visitor's chair opposite him. She tries to masturbate

him.

This time, too, both are fully dressed. Over his

clothes, the doctor wears an unbuttoned white coat.

He watches the woman for a while in her activity, then

he says coldly:

It's like a slap in the face. She looks dumbfounded.

He gets up and buttons up his pants. She feels as if the

world had collapsed around her.

The midwife remains seated, her head bowed, as if struck

by a lightning

PAUSE. He points at the examination couch on the other

side of the small room, saying casually:

She remains immobile, and shoots a quick mechanical

glance at the examination couch. He looks at her.

He turns away. The midwife hardly moves. She's still

sitting on the visitor's chair. It takes her a lot of

strength not to faint  at the same time she speaks out

calmly.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

She looks at him.

The doctor goes over and slaps her. Tears start to run

down her face, but after a short pause she keeps on

speaking, "unmoved":

The doctor snorts with disdain.

She gets up and makes room for him. He sits down at the

desk and "works". She looks down at him:

PAUSE. The doctor "works", as if he hadn't heard. She

keeps watching him for a while, and then says softly:

He looks up at her. After a pause, he says:

52. FARM. EXT/DAY

Rays of cold winter sun.

The men carry the coffin out of the house. Some people

are already waiting outside. All wear mourning clothes.

The coffin is shouldered, the funeral procession forms,

with the pallbearers and in the lead. The others who had

gathered in the house follow. Paul comes out with Sepp,

whom he tries to calm. Finally Leni comes out and, in

words that we can't hear, asks the old midwife to look

after the farm for a short while. She gathers her

sisters and with them gets in the funeral procession

right behind the coffin.

The procession starts to move off. As it comes around

the corner of the farm to go down the path leading to

the village, Franz comes toward them. Muttering is heard

from the villagers. They don't know how to react. The

procession slows down. Franz comes over. For a while he

stands in front of the coffin, head bowed. Then he joins

his brothers and sisters. He and Leni exchange a glance,

then he takes his place beside her. After he has

motioned to the coffin bearers, the procession starts to

move off again slowly, despite of the continued

muttering. Paul, who is still carrying Sepp, looks

expectantly toward his older brother who squeezes his

hand. Paul smiles shyly. Then Franz takes over little

Sepp, in the most natural way. For a long moment it

almost looks as if, despite of all the gloom, these

people weren't desperate.

53. VILLAGE AND SURROUNDING LANDSCAPE EXT/DAY

Various long shots of the snow-covered landscape.

54. RECTORY. LIVING ROOM. INT/DAY

The decorated Christmas tree. Outside bright sunlight.

The pastor is taking the white ribbon off Marie's head

and Martin's arm. The rest of the family witnesses this

almost solemn act.

He strokes the children's heads. They kiss his hand. The

mother embraces them heartily.

55. ESTATE EXT/DAY

Springtime.

The Baroness, Sigi and a new, a forty-ish nanny with the

twins are get out of a carriage in front of the manor.

A maid hurries out of the house with reinforcements, the

Baroness is being welcomed respectfully and the luggage

is being unloaded. The nurse gives instructions in

Italian, which leads to some confusion. Then the nanny

talks to Sigi who translates to the servants, laughing.

Besides, the boy looks transformed: instead of his

former pale skin color, his face now has a nice tan, his

fair hair has been further bleached by the sun, he has

grown taller and looks altogether stronger and happier.

The Baroness too seems more relaxed and restored.

She and Sigi are about to go straight into the house

when we hear, coming from the other side of the

courtyard

Sigi turns around. Ferdinand has seen him from the

window and called. Sigi waves back:

Sigi wants to run over to the steward's house.

Sigi hurries off. The Baroness and the nurse look at

each other in agreement. The Baroness smiles faintly.

Then they go through the door into the house.

For a moment we only see the open door with the dark

stairwell behind it.

Then we hear the STEPS of the Baron, first on the gravel

in the yard. Then Baron comes into frame, and goes

through the door into the house. He vanishes into the

darkness of the stairwell. From there we hear his voice:

The nurse comes out after a while again

But Sigi is talking intensely to Ferdinand on the other

side of the courtyard and doesn't answer.

56. SCHOOL. INT/DAY

CLASSROOMS.

The children are going wild. Brawling, sponge and chalk

are flying through the air. Some are packing up their

belongings, preparing to leave the classroom. In short,

the way children behave once the lesson is over.

Marie stands at the classroom door. She watches her

classmates. The she looks through the door into the

CORRIDOR.

It's empty. She comes back to the CLASSROOM, but stays

at the door so that she can still keep an eye on the

corridor. Apparently, she has been posted there as a

lookout to warn against the possible arrival of a

teacher.

The shouting, laughter and brawling goes on. Suddenly,

Marie sees the schoolteacher in the CORRIDOR

with her father. The two are having an animated

conversation. Marie bursts into the CLASSROOM and closes

the door to muffle the noise, then she shouts to her

classmates:

But with all the shouting and laughter, her voice isn't

heard by all of the pupils. The noise dies down, some of

them stop misbehaving. Somebody picks up the sponge, and

the blackboard is quickly cleaned up of the traces of

the fight. But a small group who had started to chase

each other around, doesn't hear and keeps at it. Marie

shouts to them again, this time louder:

But as the wild chase goes on and some over-exited

children even make fun of her, and she yells at the top

of her voice:

At that moment, the door opens and the pastor comes in

with the schoolteacher.

Almost instantly, the room becomes QUIET. Without saying

a word, the pastor goes over to Marie, grabs her by the

ear and drags her through the whole classroom to the

stove, where he makes her stand, face to the wall. The

pupils remain silent, embarrassed.

While the pastor goes back to the black board, putting

his briefcase on the desk without saying a word, the

schoolteacher, who feels slightly responsible for the

lack of discipline of his classroom, says:

The children disappear quickly. To the first child who

tries to sneak out the schoolteacher says:

Immediately all the CHILDREN rushing out say:

Finally, all the children have left the classroom,

except eight candidates for confirmation, among them

Paul, Xenia and Marie with her face still turned to the

wall.

The schoolteacher turns to the pastor:

The pastor answers with a reserved nod. In an icy

silence, he has waited for the all the younger pupils to

leave. As the schoolteacher notices that there will be

no further reaction from the pastor, he bows slightly to

him and says:

The schoolteacher leaves the room. The pastor turns to

the candidates for confirmation:

They say the LORD'S PRAYER together. Then the pastor

says:

The students sit down. Marie keeps standing facing the

wall. The pastor stops too. After a while he begins to

talk.

Marie, who all this time has been waiting beside the

stove, faints and collapses to the floor.

57. THE DOCTOR'S HOUSE. INT/NIGHT

STAIRWELL.

The only light comes in from the living room. Rudolph

comes down the stairs, wearing a nightshirt.

He goes into the LIVING ROOM.

It's empty.

He goes into the KITCHEN.

It's also empty. Rudolph is desperate. He starts to cry.

Finally, he goes back to the STAIRWELL and goes up the

stairs to his room.

On the stairway, he notices light coming from under the

door of the practice. He goes back down the stairs down

again and opens the door of the PRACTICE.

In the bright light, sitting in front of each other, are

the doctor and Xenia. The doctor has his back to

Rudolph, so that we see Xenia's face first. She sits on

the visitor's chair. He has placed his chair in front of

hers, and his legs are closed around her legs. She's

crying.

The situation is ambiguous, we don't know what has

happened.

The noise at the door startles Xenia, she looks at

Rudolph:

The doctor spins around, and looks stunned to his young

son. Both look as if they have been caught red-handed.

Rudolph doesn't really know, what to think of all this,

but   being    the  good   child   he   is,  he   answers

automatically:

Short PAUSE. Xenia wipes the tears from her face.

He gets up and goes, still seen from behind, to a

closet, and puts something into it that we can't

recognize. He's straightens his clothes. Then he goes

over to Rudolph:

As Rudolph hesitates and looks at her dubiously, she

explains, almost eagerly:

To show him, she grasps one of her ears.

Rudolph looks at her. He doesn't think she's telling the

truth.

58. RECTORY. THE PASTOR'S STUDY. INT/DAY

Marie comes in. She's wearing a nightshirt, her hair is

damp and sticks to her head. She looks sick and

feverish.

She closes the door quietly, then goes to her father's

desk and opens a few drawers. She ends up finding the

letter-opener. It has a hilt and looks like a small

sword.

She takes the letter-opener, goes to the birdcage, puts

the letter-opener down beside it and grabs the tiny

canary. As the bird chirps, she glances round at the

door, as if to make sure that nobody is coming.

She takes the bird into her left hand so that its little

head is turned upwards, and picks up the letter-opener

with her right hand...

59. ESTATE. STEWARD'S HOUSE. INT/DAY

The schoolteacher is led by the steward's wife to the

living room. She carries an apron and her sleeves are

rolled up. Apparently she was just preparing a cake, and

her sticky hands make her open the door with her elbow.

Because of the narrator's voice, we don't grasp what

they're saying, but we understand that she's asking him

to come in and wait for the person he wants to see, and

that she can't keep him company now.

The steward's wife has left the room. The schoolteacher

sits around, bored. After a while he gets up, goes to

the window and looks out.

The courtyard is empty.

Suddenly, the schoolteacher hears a female VOICE in the

next room SPEAKING softly.

He listens, then he goes to the wing door and looks

through the gap on the etched glass-window of the door

into the next room.

There, Liesl sits beside the cradle and talks quietly to

the baby.

The schoolteacher opens the door. Liesl sees him, gets

up and greets him politely with a curtsy:

Smiling, the schoolteacher goes to the cradle and looks

into it.

PAUSE. The schoolteacher looks out the window to see if

the steward isn't coming.

She looks at the grandfather clock, that indicates

quarter to four. The schoolteacher thinks for a moment,

then he goes to the living room:

He stands in the door:

He wants to close the door behind himself. Suddenly

The schoolteacher smiles, surprised at the unexpected

question:

The schoolteacher feels that she has something on her

mind and asks, this time without irony:

She looks at him, wondering if she should really discuss

it. He nods to encourage her.

She bows her head.

The schoolteacher thinks for a moment, then he goes over

to her.

She shakes her bowed head. But suddenly, she starts to

cry:

She sobs, he takes out a handkerchief and hands it to

her:

Liesl takes the handkerchief, blows her nose and wipes

away her tears. She doesn't completely manage to hold

her tears back, and breathes haltingly. She hands the

handkerchief back to the schoolteacher.

The schoolteacher puts the handkerchief away with an

imperceptible smile and then says reassuringly:

The girl sniffles a couple of times again, then swallows

and says quietly:

Liesl nods eagerly.

She starts to cry again:

Touched, the schoolteacher puts his arm around Liesl's

shoulder.

Liesl can't calm down.

She shakes her head.

She just shakes her head, and keeps on crying. Then he

takes the handkerchief out again and hands it to her. As

she doesn't take it, he nudges her. She looks up,

confused. He holds the handkerchief again with a

cheerful nod. She takes it and blows her nose. The she

slowly calms down.

She shrugs her shoulders, as if she disagrees with what

he's saying. Her head bowed she stands before him,

holding his handkerchief.

She breathes a few more times, then says with an almost

"adult" voice:

PAUSE.

The schoolteacher is completely perplexed. At first he

doesn't know what to say.

Liesl bows her head again.

The schoolteacher bends over to catch her gaze.

She looks at him reluctantly, maintaining her defiant

reserve.

Again she looks down at the floor.

She shakes her head.

As she doesn't answer, he repeats:

She nods almost imperceptibly.

He holds his hand out to her. Astonished she looks at

the handkerchief in her hands. She had forgotten it

completely, and gives it back the schoolteacher.

He pockets the handkerchief.

She nods reluctantly. He insists, seeks her gaze:

She glances at him to see whether he's making fun of

her. He looks at her seriously and gives her a nod that

demands an answer. She nods briefly. But it isn't clear

whether she just does it to please him.

He looks at her, as she stands there, head bowed.

Finally he smiles and tries to "crack a joke" to make

the matter less serious:

She looks up at him, round-eyed.

60. RECTORY. THE PASTOR'S STUDY. INT/DAY

The pastor comes through the door, goes to his desk, and

is about to put down his briefcase.

The dead bird lies in the middle of the desk with its

wings spread out. The pastor's letter-opener is stuck in

its neck - only the hilt sticks out from its beak.

61. STREET. EXT/DAY

The schoolteacher and Eva drive in the carriage. In the

background, we catch glimpses of the town.

Both laugh heartily.

SHORT PAUSE, in which the laughter fades down.

The schoolteacher looks at her sideways, smiling:

She looks at him, doesn't understand that he's trying to

make her complain about their forced separation, and

says cheerfully:

The schoolteacher exchanges a smiling glance with her,

then looks back at the road:

She looks at him, surprised. Suddenly, she understands.

She shakes her head with a smile, then takes his hand

for a short moment, as if she were apologizing for her

lack of sensitivity.

He looks at her hand on his, but she already has

withdrawn it. Both seem very happy. After a few moments,

during which the horse keeps trotting, Eva leans against

the schoolteacher and puts her head against his

shoulder. But the shaking of the carriage on the rutted

road makes that position untenable and so they sit side

by side again and drive on. Finally

At that moment the road crosses a brook, that runs

through a small wood. The schoolteacher steers the

carriage on to a trail that branches off the road after

the bridge.

Eva looks down and shakes her head. The schoolteacher

stops the carriage, turns to her:

Now he understands. He smiles although he can't really

understand that she's been thinking such a thing of him.

Now he talks to her almost as to a child, astonished and

reassuringly.

She looks up at him.

She keeps looking at him pleadingly. Finally he gives

in, slightly disappointed:

He drives on. After a few meters, Eva puts her hand on

his hands and on the reins. He stops the carriage, she

looks at him.

He doesn't know what say. They look at each other.

Suddenly Eva leans forward and kisses him on the lips

very cautiously. They remain that way for a long while

without their bodies touching each other.

After separating, they forget at first to keep

breathing. Then, once the worst of the confusion has

abated, they both turn away from each other. The

schoolteacher lets the horse start trotting again, and

they sit side by side on the bumping vehicle, looking

straight ahead, quiet and overwhelmed by the happiness

of the moment.

62. CHURCH INT/DAY

The church is packed.

The 8 candidates for confirmation are kneeling at the

Communion bench. One after the other, the pastor puts

the cup to their lips.

As he reaches Marie, who is kneeling fifth in line, he

hesitates a long moment. For so long, that this causes a

few irritated stares from the devout parish. Even more

than the other children, Marie is also numb with

excitement. It almost looks like she might faint again.

But then he holds out the cup to her too, and she

drinks:

He wipes the cup, where Marie's mouth drank  as he does

after each child - and goes on to the next one,

repeating the rite...

63. FOREST EXT/NIGHT

Distant VOICES. At first incomprehensible. Gradually we

understand them better:

Here and there silhouettes appear in the half-light.

Some carry lanterns, other torches. It takes some time

before they get nearer and become recognizable: they're

men and women from the village.

After a while

We follow those running over: Bound to a tree is a small

boy. His whole head is wrapped up in rags. A small slit

has been left open so the nose can breathe. He MOANS.

A paper has been tied around his neck with a white

ribbon.

The people hurry toward the child, free the child of its

fetters. The child slumps down, his head is unwrapped,

covered in blood: it's the mongoloid son of the midwife.

Astonished, somebody reads the words written in block

letters on the paper):

64. SCHOOL. INT/DAY

CORRIDOR.

Marie, Martin, Paul, Georg, and a couple of other

children are waiting at the classroom door. They remain

silent. They're listening.

CLASSROOM

The two detectives question Liesl in the presence of the

schoolteacher and become more and more aggressive. Liesl

ends up crying.

PAUSE. The officers exchange an impatient look with the

schoolteacher, who himself doesn't really know what to

think of Liesl's story. He looks at her thoughtfully.

The police officer turns to the girl again:

Liesl shakes her head desperately, crying again. The

police officer looks at the schoolteacher. The latter

doubts whether he should speak up. He feels sorry for

the girl. Finally, he says:

The police officer looks at him, grunts with disdain,

and turns to his colleague:

Suddenly, he yells at the girl:

Liesl jumps up with fear. The police officer stands

right in front of her:

He pulls the girl to her feet. She's thoroughly

intimidated, and sniffles faintly. Then he leads her

toward the door, at the same time turning to the

schoolteacher:

The schoolteacher finds the policeman's behavior toward

the child exaggeratedly aggressive, but he follows

reluctantly:

The police officer opens the door to the

CORRIDOR

and almost bumps into a group of pupils that have

assembled there.

Obviously the schoolteacher didn't expect them, but

doesn't want to show it in front of the police.

PAUSE. The police officer looks at the schoolteacher:

Again, the police officer looks at the schoolteacher.

65. THE MIDWIFE'S HOUSE INT/NIGHT

The doctor carefully examines Hansi's wounds. Especially

the areas around eyes that are badly affected. The boy

moans softly.

The midwife stands beside him, trying to stay calm, but

she is paralyzed with fear, and visibly still in a state

of shock.

It's very quiet. The doctor speaks with a soothing,

almost tender voice to the child, who keeps on moaning:

He has finished his treatment (and has bandaged the

boy's eyes again), and wants get up. But Hansi's hand

clings to his, and holds him back. He hesitates a

moment. The doctor and the midwife exchange a brief

glance. Then, the doctor cautiously frees his hand from

the child's.

The boy moans louder and tries again to grasp the hand

of the doctor, who he can't see. Brief exchange of

glances between the doctor and the midwife, who ends up

sitting on Hansi's bed, taking the boy's hands.

The doctor motions to the midwife that she should stay

with the child, and leaves the room silently and almost

hastily.

66. LANDSCAPE WITH A BROOK AND PASTURES EXT/DAY

Sitting at a brook, Sigi, Ferdinand and Georg have cut

willow twigs with their pocketknives and are now carving

whistles out of them. Their feet dangle in the water,

they're concentrated on their work.

Georg is the first to have finished. Proudly he tries it

out, but the little whistle doesn't sound very good. He

hides his disappointment, and keeps on carving to

improve the sound.

Then Sigi's whistle is ready and it sounds very good.

Sigi is delighted. After a short and proud look over to

his rivals, he leans back into the grass and keeps on

whistling.

Georg looks with irritation at the "braggart", and keeps

on carving. Then he gives it another try, but the

whistle doesn't sound much better than before.

Sigi's   whistling   makes   Georg's  seem   ridiculous.

Ferdinand looks at Georg with a gloating grin.

Suddenly Georg pounces on Sigi and tries to grab his

whistle. Sigi fights back and refuses to let go.

Ferdinand also gets up and watches the two, grinning.

Even if Sigi is no longer the weakling he used to be

before his stay in Italy, Georg, who is three years

older than him, is much stronger: with the weight of his

whole body he charges at Sigi, making him fall backward

into the shallow water of the brook, and takes his

whistle away.

The shock almost knocks out Sigi, and though the stream

isn't deep, half of his head lies under the flowing

water. Georg sees the danger, but his pride prevents him

from helping him, as it means admitting his own unjust

behavior. For a moment he hesitates, a helpless and

defiant grin on his face. But Ferdinand has already

jumped into the water and pulls out Sigi, who shakes his

head to fully come to his senses.

Ferdinand looks up at Georg, who is standing on the

bank, still holding the whistle in his hand. Then Georg

points his finger at him, and says furiously and

guiltily.

67. RECTORY. STUDY. INT/DAY

The pastor sits at his desk, working. A KNOCK is heard.

Florian comes in, hesitantly. In his hand, he carries a

birdcage (we've already seen it in Scene 49 in the boy's

bedroom at night). In the cage is the bird that Florian

had found on Thanksgiving day, and who has recovered in

the meantime.

The boy looks embarrassed. He glances at his father,

then comes over with the cage and puts it carefully on

his father's desk. As Florian approaches, the pastor

looked on, amazed. After putting down the cage, Florian

steps back a little, then stops, his head slightly

bowed.

The pastor looks at him, doesn't know how to react.

Then,   with  a   hoarse   voice  and  trying to  look

indifferent, he says:

For a moment, neither of them knows what to do. Then the

boy leaves the room.

The pastor follows him with his eyes. Then, he sits

down. He tries to keep his composure, but in the end he

bursts into tears. He sobs haltingly, trying hard not

let it be heard.

68.THE STEWARD'S HOUSE INT/EXT/DAY

THE CHILDREN'S ROOM.

Georg stands at the window and looks down at the

COURTYARD

Coming from   the   manor,   the   steward   is   walking   over

briskly.

THE CHILDREN'S ROOM.

Georg leaves the window and sits down at his table,

doing his homework.

We hear the FRONT DOOR opening downstairs, then the

father's hasty STEPS on the stairs.

Finally, the father appears in the door. He's out of

breath, furious, and tries to speak quietly

Georg looks at his father, "not understanding".

At this, the steward pounces on the boy and smacks him

so hard that he falls out of his chair.

The steward yanks him up and shoves him against the

wall. Georg stumbles over the table which is standing in

the way, and lies back on the table top, trying to

protect his face with his hands.

The steward lets go of him and starts to beat                him

furiously.

At that moment, attracted by the noise, Emma, the

mother, appears:

The mother's arrival has snapped the father out of his

blind rage. He glances at her, then turns to the boy

again, breathless with excitement, but forcing himself

to be calm:

The mother looks uncomprehendingly from one to the

other, then turns pleadingly to her husband:

Again the mother looks from one to the other, trying to

save the situation:

The steward turns to her, annoyed by her insistence,

looks at her for a long moment, then at Georg again and

turns on his heels and leaves the room.

STAIRWELL.

The steward runs down the stairs. The mother follows

him.

She reaches the steward as he is just about to open the

front door and places herself in front of him.

At that moment we hear from upstairs the full SOUND of

Sigi's whistle s from above, wild and lasting.

For a moment, the steward is paralyzed, then he seizes

the horsewhip hanging from hook in the wardrobe and

dashes upstairs. We hear him thrashing the boy in the

room, and soon the WHISTLING is replaced by Georg's

SCREAMS OF PAIN

After a short hesitation, the mother runs upstairs after

her husband, and we now hear her trying in vain trying

to control her husband.

69. ESTATE. DINING ROOM. COURTYARD. INT/EXT/NIGHT

The meal is over. The Baroness watches the maid clearing

the table and putting everything away on a tray.

The Baron has stood up, standing with his back to his

wife. He pours himself a glass of brandy.

The maid has left with the tray.

PAUSE.

Look of the Baroness ("I don't need that kind of

irony").

The maid enters to clear the rest of the table. It leads

to a longer PAUSE. The Baron drinks his brandy, goes to

the window, waits. As the maid leaves the room, she

looks at the Baroness inquiringly:

Even after the maid has left, they remain SILENT for

quite a long while. Finally, she says

PAUSE.

The Baroness looks at him, then gets up and wants to

leave the room.

She turns around, looks at him.

She looks at him.

She goes back to her chair and sits down.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

The Baroness looks at him. Then she gets up, about to

leave the room again. At the same moment, somebody

KNOCKS at the door. After a short gesture of irritation

The steward appears.

Annoyed, the Baron leaves the room with him. As he goes

out, the steward greets the Baroness with a nod.

Once the door is closed, she stops for a moment, goes to

the window, and looks out pensive. She ends up going to

the small bar and pours herself a glass of brandy. Her

hands are shaking a little. She drinks from the glass,

goes back to the window and looks out waiting, taking a

sip from now and then. Below in the

COURTYARD

a few people walk around nervously. But it doesn't look

particularly unusual. A saddled horse is led into the

stable. Finally, the door of the

DINING ROOM

opens again. The Baron comes back inside. He looks

distressed. The Baroness doesn't know whether this is

the result of her conversation, or of the message

brought by the steward. The Baron paces a few steps,

pondering, then glances at his wife. Finally, she asks

70. VILLAGE AND SURROUNDING LANDSCAPE EXT/DAY

The same setting as in Scene 57. The countryside in all

its summer splendor.

71. ESTATE EXT/DAY

The schoolteacher is pushing the bicycle out of the

manor house. He says good-bye to a maid, who closes the

door behind him. Some SHOUTING o.s. makes him look

toward the steward's house: the steward comes out with

the midwife, and it looks like he's throwing her out

with a flood of angry insults.

Angrily the steward slams the door behind him. At first

the midwife doesn't know what to do. Finally she turns

away from the door and starts to cross the yard. There,

she sees the schoolteacher. She comes over to him.

PAUSE.

After hesitating a while

The schoolteacher looks at her inquisitively, because he

still doesn't understand what it's all about, but she

doesn't respond, and says:

The schoolteacher looks at her. The midwife looks

pitiful: she tries to smile at him pleadingly, tears are

streaming down her face.

Finally, he gives the bicycle to her. She grabs it

quickly, says

and rides away. The schoolteacher remains behind, alone.

He stands pensive, then he goes slowly back to the

village.

72. VILLAGE STREET. EXT/DUSK

The schoolteacher goes home.

TRACKING SHOT.

As he passes the midwife's house, he sees behind the

fence in the garden, half hidden behind the bushes,

Marie and a few other children. The shutters of the

house are closed.

The schoolteacher stops, watches the children. After a

few moments, they notice that somebody is watching them.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

The children go out slowly. They open the wooden gate in

the fence, and go out into the street. They're visibly

embarrassed at being caught by the schoolteacher when

they were doing something wrong. Some avoid the

schoolteacher's eyes, while others mutter a greeting, as

if they wanted to say goodbye, as they went away. The

schoolteacher looks annoyed. As Marie steps out of the

garden door, he says:

Marie doesn't seem to feel guilty at all. Again she

greets him politely.

The children go away. The schoolteacher also goes on his

way. After a few steps he turns around and looks at the

children, then walks on.

The schoolteacher stops. He ponders about this. Then he

goes back to the midwife's house.

He has reached the front of the house again. Indeed,

with its closed shutters, it looks uninhabited. Only

because of the tidy little front garden, could one tell

that somebody lived there.

The schoolteacher opens the garden gate and goes up to

the house. He tries to open the door and then the

shutters. Everything is well shut. He peers through the

cracks in the wooden shutters.

Nobody seems to answer. For a short moment the

schoolteacher disappears behind the house, apparently

looking for another way to get inside. But he soon comes

back without having found anything.

He leaves the midwife's house and hurries to the

neighboring house, the doctor's.

He enters the property, goes up to the entrance and

rings. Nobody answers. He rings again, then he sees a

note tacked up:

73. RECTORY. INT/NIGHT

STAIRWELL.

The pastor's wife and the schoolteacher stand before the

closed front door.

The schoolteacher shakes his head. They both remain

silent and pensive.

She opens the door

LIVING ROOM

and points to a chair.

She leaves the room. The schoolteacher remains standing.

Waiting.

Finally, the pastor's wife comes back with the two

children.

PAUSE.

They   sit   down.   The  children   sit  opposite   the

schoolteacher.

First the schoolteacher wants to refuse, then he decides

to accept so as to get rid of the woman, and be alone

with the children.

The schoolteacher turns to the children:

Short PAUSE.

She looks at Martin who confirms it:

Apparently Marie doesn't take it as a further question,

and remains silent.

SILENCE. Then the schoolteacher turns to Martin:

Short PAUSE.

PAUSE.

The schoolteacher realizes that he won't get any further

this way.

PAUSE. Then the schoolteacher adds:

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

PAUSE. The schoolteacher doesn't know how to go on.

PAUSE.

With demonstrative helplessness she looks at the

schoolteacher, then at her brother, and again at the

schoolteacher: Shaking her head and shrugging her

shoulders.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

PAUSE.

The schoolteacher looks at her.

Martin gets up and is about to go to the door.

Martin sits down after exchanging a glance with Marie

again.

At that moment, the pastor's wife enters with the coffee

cups on a tray.

She puts the tray on the table. Turns to the

schoolteacher, friendly as ever:

The schoolteacher looks at Marie, then he answers:

The schoolteacher gets up, ready to leave.

The pastor's wife shakes her head thoughtfully.

And indeed, outside one can hear the FRONT DOOR and then

the STEPS of the pastor. The wife goes to the door to

open it. The pastor appears.

The pastor doesn't really understand what can be so

urgent, and why the schoolteacher, which was unusual for

him, came to see him in the evening. But he remains

friendly:

The schoolteacher nods to the pastor's wife, who is glad

that the required meeting can now take place, while the

pastor walks ahead with an inviting gesture. As the

pastor opens the door of the STUDY, he asks:

They enter the room and the pastor offers the

schoolteacher a chair. Then he realizes that the windows

are open and closes them, as the schoolteacher starts to

speak.

The pastor has almost finished closing the windows. He

pauses and turns to the schoolteacher:

After a startled PAUSE the pastor shakes his head:

He   finishes  closing   the  windows.   Then   he  goes

thoughtfully over to the schoolteacher and sits down in

front of him.

SILENCE. The pastor ponders. Then, after a while

The schoolteacher almost dodges speaking further:

The schoolteacher, uneasy, breathes hard. He knows that

his suspicions will seem odd, and senses that the pastor

won't go along with then.

PAUSE.

The pastor looks at the schoolteacher, then his face

slowly freezes to a mask of refusal:

Of course, the schoolteacher notices the reaction. But

he has already gone too far to backtrack. After a PAUSE

he goes on:

LONG SILENCE. Finally, the pastor gets up, takes a few

steps, then, after another PAUSE, turns again to the

schoolteacher. His face is ashen, and he can hardly

speak:

The schoolteacher has little affirmative and regretful

gesture. He feels extremely uncomfortable in this role.

Another PAUSE. Then, the pastor continues:

PAUSE. He breathes heavily, tries to control his

emotions.

His voice fails. His chin starts to shake, tears flood

his eyes, and he suddenly turns away.

The schoolteacher who has been looking at him, now looks

down and stays where he is without saying a word.

After a while, the pastor has regained enough control of

himself to turn back to the schoolteacher:

Mute reaction of the schoolteacher ("of course").

The schoolteacher wants to reply something, but the

pastor continues:

He looks at the schoolteacher for a moment with disdain:

74. THE MIDWIFE'S HOUSE EXT/DAY

The steward, his wife and the schoolteacher try to break

into the house.

First the steward tries several keys. As this doesn't

work, they break down a door at the rear of the house

and go in.

75. THE MIDWIFE'S HOUSE INT/DAY

BACK TO THE SCENE.

The schoolteacher, the steward and his wife search

through the house. Because of the closed shutters, its

rooms are veiled in half-light. Several times they call

"Hansi"!, "Hello, Hansi, where are you"?, which can

faintly be heard under the narrator's voice.

In the midwife's bedroom, the schoolteacher notices a

photo: it shows the doctor, an unknown woman, and Xenia

as a small girl.

The boy is nowhere to be found.

The three searchers, who have found nothing, meet again

in the stairwell.

76. THE MIDWIFE'S HOUSE EXT/DAY

The schoolteacher, the steward and his wife come out

from behind the house, leave the property and go their

separate ways on the street. All that is left is the

empty house with its closed shutters.

77. MONTAGE: EXT/DAY

The houses of the doctor, the pastor, the farmer, the

street before the school, the estate's administrative

buildings and the manor house.

There is nobody to be seen.

The deserted estate is decorated with flags.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT:

The villagers are about to take their seats. The smaller

children are sitting with their parents on the pews.

All are in their Sunday best, the members of the militia

are in uniform. Flags are planted. Joyful excitement

reigns everywhere.

Once the church is full, the Baron, the Baroness and

their son Sigi walk down the aisle and sit down in the

front row.

CLOSE-UPS:

Of all the adult leading characters of the film, aside

from the doctor and the midwife. Also of Eva and her

father.

MORE CLOSE-UPS.

The schoolteacher on the gallery lifts his hands and

cues them to begin. They start SINGING. We see them one

after the other. At the end we see Marie: she wears the

white ribbon in her hair.

The image of Marie singing with the shining white ribbon

freezes.

Over the FREEZE FRAME the END CREDITS begin. Once the

narrator's VOICE has gone silent, we listen to Bach's

solemn chorale. The children sing beautifully.

