FADE IN:

SUPER:  A TRUE STORY - MYSTIC HARBOR CONNECTICUT 1994

CREDITS OVER

Wind on the water.  Soaring gulls and sand pipers glide

over the pilings and sagging bulkheads.

INT.  LATE MODEL CAR - SAME

CHUCK GIEG, 49, thin, windswept and handsome, is behind

the wheel.  He pulls down a narrow cobble stone street

that leads to the wharf.

EXT.  WHARF - DAY

Chuck stares out across the harbor.  In the distance, the

echoes of singing masts.  Shrouds and canvas softly ping.

The small boats of Mystic tug restlessly at their

moorings.

EXT.  DOCTORS OFFICE - LATER

Chuck stands silently on the periphery of a gathering of

people.  They surround a small building, a neighborhood

clinic.  A worn gray stone, long in the earth, dedicates

the structure.

Next to the stone a funeral urn.  A YOUNG MINISTER gropes

for meaning.

Chuck gazes out at the sleepy harbor, the minister's voice

fading away.  The afternoon wind is coming up with the

tide.  He quietly heads towards the water.  Drifting,

drawn, lost.

A SHIP'S BELL turns him around.  Ding ding.  Ding ding.  A

beautiful three masted schooner steady on the water slips

into port.  A picture out of another time, another place.

It takes him away...

EXT.  FOREST - WATER TOWER - DAY

A towering monolith, surrounded by tall oaks and

sycamores.  The tower is immense.  A single ladder runs up

to the top.

AT THE TOP

Just above the tree tops, the view is spectacular.  CHUCK

GIEG, 16, sits thin and unsteady.  Chuck's gaze is drawn

upward -- to the building spring cumulus clouds.  Chuck's

older brother WILL, 18, stout, self assured, pulls himself

to the top.

Chuck looks out, yearning.  Will considers him, troubled.

Chuck takes a last look at the building clouds.  The sky

rumbles.  Distant thunder.

EXT.  GIEG HOUSE - DAY

Maple street, USA, tree lined and quaint.  The Gieg home

is a modest two story house with a covered porch.  The

family station wagon is poised for departure.  CHARLES,

45, a generally serious man broods as MIDDY, their mother,

40, soft and thoughtful, exits the house.  Chuck and Will

appear from the woods.

Will shoves out a hand at Chuck.

Chuck hugs him anyway and walks to the passenger side.

Charles tosses him the keys, like he's doing him a big

favor.

INT.  CAR - DAY

Chuck sits in the drivers seat.  Middy is in the back.

Charles slams the trunk and gets in.  Before Chuck turns

the ignition...

Chuck reacts.

OUTSIDE

Will watches as the car pulls away.

CAR - MOVING

The Giegs drive in silence.  Middy reads from a brochure.

Chuck pulls over to the side of the road.

Chuck hands him the keys.

Charles regards him oddly.

EXT.  AIRPORT GATE - DAY

The National Airlines Boeing 707 is bigger than anything

Chuck has ever seen.  Passengers begin boarding.  Charles

stands away, detached.

Middy hugs her son.

Chuck faces his dad.

Charles extends his hand.  They shake.  Then Chuck hurries

away into the crowd.  Charles and Middy watch until he is

out of sight.

INT.  PLANE - DAY

Chuck settles into his seat next to the window.  He

watches as the world slips away beneath the wings of the

707.

EXT.  AIRPORT CUSTOMS - BERMUDA - DAY

Another world.  Chuck stands in line at the customs booth.

He cranes his neck to see the brilliant blue water and

coral reefs beyond the runway.

Three other boys are ahead of him in line.  The CUSTOMS

AGENTS go through every piece of luggage.  TOD JOHNSTONE,

16, thin and blonde, is in a heated argument with one of

the agents about his spear gun.

RICK MARCH, 17, wise-cracking and confident, shakes his

head, smiling.  He spots Chuck, moves through the line and

shoves out a hand.

One of the agent starts pulling things out of Rick's

duffel bag.  He finds a dive knife.

EXT.  AUSTIN CAB - MOVING - DAY

The car whizzes through the narrow streets of Bermuda.

CALYPSO MUSIC sings from the radio.  The streets are lined

with small coral houses and exotic palms.

INT.  CAR - SAME

The boys are jammed inside with their things.  In addition

to Chuck, Rick and Tod, is CHARLIE STRATTON, also sixteen.

Tod smiles, reminiscing.

At the top of a hill, the harbor comes into view.

The cab stops.  Besides many colorful fishing boats, is

the ALBATROSS.  At ninety-two feet, she dwarfs everything

in the harbor.  Her white hull glows like ivory and her

twin masts and yard arms tower above her deck.

Breathtaking.

EXT.  DOCK - DAY

The boys pile out of the taxi.  What seemed like a

pristine ship from the hill looks like a rust bucket up

close.  The white paint is streaked and barnacles cover

the hull.  Looks of disappointment.

A voice from behind turns Chuck.

This is BILL BUTLER, 15, removed, the youngest of the crew

and... first mate.  Bill gives Chuck a friendly slap on

the back and climbs aboard.  He is greeted by a Viking

giant of a man, LAWFORD, 37, and bearded, the ship's

English professor.

Puffing on a huge Havana cigar, he stares coolly down at

Tod and the others.  He speaks with the voice of Moses.

Chuck feels something and looks up where he meets the

intense stare of a man standing between the deck cabins.

Their eyes lock.

Then, the man is gone.  Haunting.  Only Chuck has seen

him.  Tod smiles back at Lawford impishly.

Lawford sneers and walks away.  It's all a show.

Chuck and the others climb aboard.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - DAY

Chuck makes his way down the companionway into the main

cabin.  Other crew members are already unpacking.

The sleeping arrangement is Pullman-style with two rows of

bunks on each side of the cabin.  In the middle of the

room is a gimbaled table.  This is where the crew will eat

and study.

Among the crew -- feature ROBIN WEATHERS, 16, a cherub

with soft puffy cheeks and TERRY LAPCHICK, 17, skinny and

rodent-like.

Robin approaches with a hand extended.  He carries a 8x10

photo of a young man in a football uniform.

Chuck regards the photo.

Apprehensively Chuck shakes and retreats to a lower bunk.

Robin tacks up the picture above his bunk.  Terry unpacks

in front of one of the lower berths.

A loud "THUD!" turns everyone around.  A duffel bag lies

at the bottom of the companionway.  A large imposing

figure climbs into the cabin.

This is JOHN GOODALL, 17, over six feet, big and broad.

His hair is slicked back "Dean" style and wears a full

day's growth of bread on his face.  Compared to the

others, he looks all man.  Everybody clears from his path.

He stops in front of the lower, center bunk (Terry's bunk)

and drops his bag.

John just glares at him, then dumps all of Terry's things

onto the blanket on the bunk, gathers it up and tosses it

into the remaining upper berth.  Terry watches,

intimidated.

John climbs into his bunk and closes his eyes.  Bill

enters, followed by several adults.

DR. ALICE SHELDRAKE, 30, smart, attractive and tough, is

ship's surgeon and Skipper's wife.  Lawford appears with

GEORGE PASCAL, 30's from Brazil, dark, and fit.

The guys stumble over only half listening.

Lawford puts a hand on Bill's shoulder.

Bill gives a half reluctant wave.

Snickering.

Laughter.  A sound stops the laughter.  Almost on cue, the

sound of slow methodical footsteps, pace the deck above

them.  Then a shadow falls across the skylight, blocking

the light.  Ominous.  They all notice and look up.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - SUNRISE

Dawn glows orange in the skylights above the cabin.  The

only sound is the heavy, even breathing of slumber.

Suddenly, a booming voice rumbles down the companionway.

Chuck wakes, disoriented.  Terry bolts upright and hits

his head on the low ceiling.  Ouch.

Tod, Rick and Charlie are up instantly.  Lawford's voice

echoes through the ship.

Chuck tries to assimilate Lawford's words.  Robin swings

his feet over the side of his bunk with a tortured look.

John rolls over and pulls his pillow over his head.

In crisply pressed shorts and shirt, Bill Butler steps

through the aft bulkhead.  He raises a bowswain's  whistle

and blows.  OOOWWWEEEEOOO!!!!  Chuck and Robin grab their

ears.  It's a nightmare.  Terry jumps and hits his head

again.

He blows the whistle again.  This time it brings even John

to his feet, staring down at Bill in a blind rage.  Bill

looks up and casually notices him.

Bill turns and disappears topside.

EXT.  DECK - DAWN

The sun has barely cracked the horizon as the crew

staggers onto the deck, shirtless and shivering.

The crew lines up.  John is the last one through the hatch

and he lets us know his boundaries are being pressed.

The boys are aghast.

Rick is the first one through the gunnel door, followed by

Tod and Charlie.  They howl and scream as they hit the

water.  The rest follow like lemmings.  But John stands

defiantly with his arms folded.

The crew are piling back on deck.  George stands in the

open galley door.  The smell of fresh bacon is

intoxicating.

George nods, wielding a butchers knife.  The crew stand

shivering, waiting on John.

Bill gives John a long look then strips to his shorts,

swings into the rigging and climbs up to the first yard

arm.  He looks down at the water some twenty-five feet

below.  It's a long way.  Robin turns away.

Lawford booms in a voice that echoes across the harbor.

With that Bill leaps and hits the water with a huge

KERSPLASH!  He swims to the boarding ladder, pulls himself

up and gets in John's face.

John considers him, then strips off his shirt.  But

instead of walking over to the gunnel door, he jumps into

the ratlines, climbs to the foretop and looks down.

He manages a thin smile then climbs to the second set of

ratlines past the third yard and continues to the top yard

arm -- the topgallant.  It's a pissing contest and

everybody knows it.

Robin refuses to watch.  The others share a look.

John makes his way along the foot ropes and stands at the

end of the yard.  He tosses a look towards Bill but with

no way to back down, he launches into the air.  Everyone

gasps as he thunders through the air in a broad swan dive.

Falling, falling, falling...

John hits the water like a bullet.  The crew run to the

side waiting for him to come up.  Nothing.  Finally, he

breaks the surface.  Easy.  He climbs up waiting, somehow,

to claim victory.

Suddenly, they all feel it.  A presence.  He has appeared

silently on top of the Chart House, like a phantom gazing

down at them, back lit by the sun the boys must squint to

see him.

RICHARD SHELDRAKE, (SKIPPER), ageless and windswept,

casually reaches up to a block and tackle with one arm and

glides to the deck.  He is powerfully built and bronzed

from the sea and sun.  He carriers the burden of command

like a cross.  Soft-spoken and remote, he is a man to be

reckoned with.  The crew know they are in the presence of

someone larger than life.

The crew line up clumsily.  Skipper has a gaze that blazes

right through them.

He looks out to sea.  Searching, ominous.  He waits until

the silence is filled with everyone's attention.

He spits into the water.  The crew sheepishly throw

glances to the horizon.

Skipper turns his gaze back to the boys.  There is a fire

in his eyes.  Nobody dare answers.

His ear to the wind.

He turns back to the sea, dark.

Skipper manages a sobering look and climbs on top of the

chart house.  He pats a small brass sign that is welded to

the main mast and reads the inscription.

With that, he disappears below.  Nobody moves.  This is

exactly the kind of man you want around when the shit hits

the fan.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - DAY

The boys devour a hearty breakfast.  Tod is the 'galley

slave' and fills glasses with orange juice.

John enters balancing two plates heaped with food.

John looks over to the dumbwaiter mounted in the wall.

The guys groan.

John approaches the full table, glaring down at Terry who

doesn't notice him.  Finally he looks up, startled.

He scrambles to get up and clear his plate.  John sits

down without a word.  The others notice the two plates of

food.

He just grunts and starts eating.  Robin watches him.

Robin bristles.

John grabs Charlie by his private parts and hoists him

into the air.  Charlie gasps, the air sucked from his

lungs.

John shoves Robin to the floor with his free arm.

John releases Charlie who crumples to the floor.  John

resumes eating.

Bill enters and reads the duty roster.

John continues to eat.  When he realizes his name hasn't

been called, he looks up to meet Bill's eyes.

INT.  HEAD

Pissed, John tries to figure out the head.  Pumps going

in, pumps going out.

John pulls back on the lever, belching "water de le

toilet" all over him.

EXT.  SHIP - DAY

Chuck sits in a bowswain's chair over the side, with a

paint roller in his hand.  The rust-streaked hull is being

transformed.

A RADIO crackles in the b.g.

Robin, Terry and Mike, are on the deck within earshot of

Chuck with chisels and wire brushes chipping away at the

rust.

Mike lights up a cigarette.  Robin notices.  Marlboro's.

Mike sizes up Robin for a moment then tosses him the pack.

Robin lights up, grimacing with the first drag.

A voice booms up from the dock.

They turn.  Standing on the dock is FRANCIS BOUTILLIER,

self important and overbearing, with his son, PHILIP, who

looks as if this whole ordeal is some kind of punishment.

Skipper appears.

Francis boards without being invited.  Philip follows in

his shadow.  He scrutinizes the condition of the boat.

The boys chuckle.

Francis looks the Skipper over, reading him, smiling.

Skipper's directness bugs Francis.

Something in this exchange turns the tone of conversation.

Phil follows Bill down the companionway.

There is threat in his tone.

Francis leaves the boat.  Skipper and the crew watch as he

climbs into his waiting embassy limousine and drives off.

Lawford shakes his head.  Bill comes up through the

companionway.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - OPEN WATER - DAY

The Albatross is under full power.  There is a sense of

excitement and anticipation.  Charlie, Rick, Robin, and

Lawford are on the halyard for the mainsail.  Skipper is

at the helm with Alice and Bill nearby.  Skipper calls

over to Chuck who stands alone at the rail.

Chuck's eyes light up as he walks over and takes the

wheel.

Lawford and his group bellow out.

Lawford coaches the boys, sending two scurrying on top the

chart house to loosen the stops which hold the heavy

furled canvas to the main boom.  He guides another to the

midships pinrail where the main halyard, which raises the

huge sail, is made fast to a belaying pin.  He loosens the

halyard and hands it to Robin.

In a beautiful tenor voice, Bill begins to croon a sea

chanty, an old whaling song with an Irish lilt.

The more experienced boys echo the line and pull to the

beat.

The newer guys like Chuck, John, Robin and Terry look at

each other like this is the queerest thing they have ever

heard of.

The boys return the verse half heartedly.  Lawford ties

off his line and stares them down.  Skipper notices that

the work has stopped.

Skipper walks amid ship and addresses the crew.

Lawford and Rick leap up onto the line pulling it down

with their body weight.  They sing out the chorus.  The

crew returns the song, somewhat reluctantly as the great

mainsail starts to rise.

Coached by Tod, another group in the bow, awkwardly hoist

the jib.

The newcomers watch Bill with new-found respect.  George,

John and the others climb to the forecourse, and out onto

the footropes.  It's unsteady work and there's confusion

everywhere.  But through it all, they continue to sing.

Lawford moves to the mainsheet on the port side while the

others move into their positions.  When Bill sees the

yardarm crew is in place...

As the tops are released, the giant forecourse drapes into

a scalloped pattern.  As the bow falls off the wind the

snapping main and jib billow.  Stiffening to the wind, the

ship heels and surges forward.

Before her awakening power, everyone changes their stance

and grabs for a handhold.  Lawford slowly pays out the

mainsheet while the forecourse crew move up the ratlines

releasing the stops on the other squaresails.

Chuck jumps, startled.  He self-consciously calls out.

Tod's group first uncleats the clewlines and buntlines and

the great squaresail drops and billows to fullness sending

a shudder through the rig.  The bow's wake sizzles with

the added surge.  As each of the squares fall, Alice and

Lawford move to their sheets, setting each sail's

position.

Chuck looks up, amazed at the sheer magnitude and beauty

of the canvas that the Albatross carries.

Bill rotates the telegraph handle back and forth and moves

it to the stop position.

As the sails billow the Albatross seems transformed.

Everyone stops and looks up.  The vessel heels and with a

powerful surge, launches into the waves.  White foam

splashes over the bowsprit as the hull thunders through

the water.  Chuck's face is full of wonder.  It is a

magical moment.  Then the crew begins to cheer.

LONG SHOT

The Albatross under full sail is the handsome, powerful

image of another time.  And yet, here she is.

ON DECK

Each of the boys is awed by the majesty of this moment.

Music builds.

Alice considers his request.

EXT.  THE OPEN SEA - LATER

The bow of the Albatross explodes through the top of a

fifteen foot swell.  The sky is clear but the wind is

fierce.  In spite of the seas the ship is trimmed and

sailing well.

The crew has never seen mountains of water like this.

Disaster seems imminent.  Bill has assembled them in front

of the wheel house.  They are all holding on for dear

life.  Even John seems shaken.  Skipper magically stands

effortlessly before them on the rolling deck.  He remains

perfectly dry.

Caught, Terry and Phil button up.

Skipper directs the next comment directly at John.

A wave explodes over the bow.  A wall of water crashes

over the deck knocking down several of the boys.  Terry

can't take it anymore and explodes.

He lunges at Skipper but Lawford one arms him.

He's making his point which is lost on no one.

Skipper walks over and puts an arm around Terry who is

fighting sobs.

INT.  CHART HOUSE - DAY

Lawford addresses some of the crew.  Chuck, Robin and John

are among them.  John glares at Lawford.  The guys giggle.

Lawford pauses for a moment and then explodes

theatrically.

He slams a text book into John's hands.

John stares back, simmering.  Robin interrupts the

potential confrontation and reaches for the book.

John pushes Robin's hands away and studies the page for a

moment.  He begins reading but struggles with the cadence.

Blank faces.

He points to his head.

He snatches the book back.

He holds up the text.

Lawford breaks into a huge belly laugh.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - ESTABLISHING - DAY

Aerial shot.  The Albatross is under full sail leaving

Bermuda for the last time.

She crashes through the surf -- driving, majestic music,

building.

DECK - DAY

The crew hauls in the line, raising the mainsail.  Chuck

struggles to coil the rope as fast as it is coming in.

ALOFT

The crew take turns racing up the ratlines into the

rigging.

BOWSPRIT NET

The crew pull down the jib trying to furl it.  Most of the

sail ends up dragging in the water.

ABOVE

The squaresails are dropped simultaneously.

WIDE

White foam boils from the bow of the Albatross as she

crashes through the waves.

AT THE WHEEL

Alice smiles and puts her arms around Skipper's waist.

It's coming together.

FORETOP - SAME

Skipper stands at the rail, looking out.  The seas are up

and the masts are pitching widely from side to side.

Chuck is high above the deck in the footropes, wrestling

with one of the squaresails.  The pitching mast catches

him by surprise and he slips.  He tumbles down, tangled in

the lines.  A rope wraps around his neck, choking him.

Robin looks up and sees him hanging helplessly.

Robin freezes.  Skipper leaps into the rigging like a

spider and, in a few seconds, wrestles Chuck free and

carries him down to the deck.  Chuck coughs, catching his

breath.  The color is gone from Skipper's face.  This was

a close call.

Alice examines Chuck, making sure he's okay.  Skipper

turns to Robin, who is shaken.  He never raises his voice.

Robin stands silently.

Still nothing from Robin.

Robin looks away.

Skipper returns his gaze to Robin, measuring him.

Finally.

Robin reluctantly pulls himself up onto the first rung,

then the second.  He stops and steals a peek up.  The mast

is swaying.  He freezes, his lip starts to tremble.  All

eyes are on him.  Phil chuckles.

Phil backs off, stunned.  Robin can't move.

Robin holds on frozen.  Skipper turns to the crew.

Humiliated, a tear slips down his face.  Excruciating.

Skipper jumps onto the backside of the ratlines.  His face

is but inches from Robin's.

Robin reaches for the next rung.  He looks down.  Skipper

growls at him.

Skipper gets right in his face and snarls.

With every ounce of strength, Robin reaches for one more

rung screaming as he reaches.  Skipper climbs and screams

with him.

Robin clutches the rung with a death grip.  Then, he looks

down.  His bladder releases.  Hot urine runs down his legs

and splashes, steaming, onto the deck.  The crew is

horrified.  Robin weeps.

Skipper backs off.

Robin climbs to the deck and falls in with the others,

mortified.

Stunned, the crew is speechless.  Chuck instinctively goes

to help Robin.  Skipper snaps like a turtle.

Skipper fires a look towards Phil.

Skipper turns and then stops.

The question hangs in the air like a cloud.

INT.  CHART HOUSE - DUSK

The chart house is the communication and navigation center

for the boat.  It also serves as the officers dining room.

Skipper, Alice, Lawford, George, and Bill Butler sit

around the small table sipping coffee.

The group remains silent.  Lawford and George exchange a

glance.  Skipper catches it.

George looks up and wipes his mouth with a napkin.

Skipper nods.

Everyone's quiet, but clear.  Skipper and Alice exit.

Lawford lets out a belly laugh.

Lawford seductively produces a pair of Havana cigars,

passes one to George and winks.

INT.  GALLEY - DUSK

Robin leans over the sink elbow deep in dishwater watching

through the cabin window, as the sun slips below the

horizon.  Chuck stands in the doorway with a plate of

food.

Robin turns and notices the plate of food and nods.  They

stand silently.  It's awkward.

Robin nods.  They both stare out at the rising moon.

Robin grows quiet.

Chuck smiles and puts a hand on his back.

EXT.  DECK - DAY

The sky is dark and a storm is building and the boat rolls

and pitches.  Chuck sees Terry heaving over the side.

John and Tod hear the sound and turn.

Tod is fixated on Terry.  Suddenly, without warning, he

breaks for the rail and lets fly.

Phil and Charlie are next.  Chris climbs through the

companionway but doesn't make it to the side.  Spontaneous

regurgitation.  Bill and Lawford jump up onto the wheel

housing to avoid being sprayed.  Suddenly everyone is

heaving.

Bill nods and disappears.  John joins Chuck watching the

events around him.

Chuck watches each of his shipmates.  Then, suddenly, out

of nowhere -- Projectile vomit all over John.  He looks at

Chuck, horrified, then he too, cuts loose over the rail.

Chuck looks at John, furious with himself, and begins to

laugh.  But after a moment he starts to laugh too.  It's

infectious, they crack each other up.  Then, in the middle

of belly laughing, they simultaneously retch again over

the side.

INT.  SKIPPER'S CABIN - DAY

Skipper sits at his desk with some charts spread out in

front of him.  There's a knock on the door.

Skipper looks up.

EXT.  DECK - DUSK

Skipper stands at the wheelhouse with Lawford, George and

Bill, studying the horizon through binoculars.  Dark

clouds.  Chuck watches Skipper.  Everyone, looking for a

cue.

Skipper stays glued to the binoculars.

Close on hatches and skylights slamming closed and cinched

tight.

BELOW DECKS

Bulkhead doors are closed and cranked down tightly.

IN THE GALLEY

Pots and pans crash around.

IN THE MAIN CABIN

The cabin doors on the bookcase swing open and dump books

on top of Alice.  She turns and looks at the mess,

annoyed.

EXT.  DECK - SAME

Bill bolts forward with Lawford barking orders.  Most of

the crew are still ill, but climb into the rigging and

begin dropping sail.

Skipper regards George, annoyed.

George returns to the galley.  Alice joins Skipper at the

wheelhouse handing him foul-weather gear.

He slips on a yellow slicker.

Skipper fires off a look that frightens even Phil.

Phil goes below, a little ashamed.  The crew scatters.

Chuck, still at the wheel, pipes up.

Skipper regards Chuck, who looks back with both fear and

eagerness.  Suddenly he sees something in this kid.  Maybe

himself.  He almost smiles.  Almost.

EXT.  FORETOP - SAME

Dark clouds blot out the sky and stars.  Thunder rumbles

far away.  The seas have built but there's no wind... yet.

With no steerage, the ship is tossed.

Tod hangs high above the heaving deck continuing to furl.

The mast swings from side to side, but the air has gone

dead calm.  Skipper looks up, anticipating.

ON THE DECK

The crew in the rigging scamper down to the safety of the

deck.

Bill joins Chuck and takes hold of the wheel.  Then it

hits.

A wall of torrential rain drums the deck amid a tympany of

thunder and flashing lightning.  The bow explodes through

twelve foot swells.  This is what the Albatross was born

to do.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - SAME

It's all the crew can do to stay in their bunks.  Pots

crash, books and personals go flying.  The guys are

scared.

ON DECK

The main and jib sheets tighten.  Skipper looks at Chuck

and Bill.  It all comes down to moments like these and he

loves it.

Suddenly, there is a loud CRACK!  A violent flapping

noise.  Skipper leaps to the port and looks forward.  Tod

comes running back.

Tod and Alice disappear.

Chuck studies him, frightened, but reassured.

EXT.  BOW - SAME

The shredded jib and rigging whip violently in the wind.

The block smashes into the gunnel rail, shattering it.  No

one dares go near it.  For a moment, it seems to hang

there seductively.  John, naive of its power, leaps for

the rail and grabs it.

Suddenly, the wind cracks the sail instantly hurling John

high off the deck and over the side.  He holds on for dear

life, screaming.

AT THE WHEEL

Skipper bolts forward.

AT THE BOW

Alice uncleats the jib halyard, leaving one turn on the

pin and shoves it into Tod's hands.

Skipper joins Tod as Alice scrambles along the deck and

pulls herself into the bowsprit netting.  When the block

and jib swing inboard, she grabs for the leach of the sail

yelling...

As John is snapped inboard Alice leaps up, grabbing the

sail, leaning out over the open water.  Waves explode

through the netting.  As Tod releases the halyard, John

falls to the deck, bruised, humbled, but alive.  Lawford

and Skipper pull Alice from the bowsprit.

Skipper looks her over.  Relieved.  No broken bones.  Good

work.  But then this is what he expects.  He respects her

and now, everyone can see why.  He looks at John sprawled

on the deck.

Skipper gives Alice a private look, then returns to the

stern where Chuck holds tightly onto the wheel.

EXT.  DECK - DAY

The crew is cleaning up.  Alice supervises repairs to the

jib while others stow line, scrub the deck and chip paint.

Lawford paces.

The more experienced crew members have heard this all

before.

The boys mockingly salute Lawford as he walks by.  John

stands before a porthole combing his Brylcreem hair into a

"D.A."

Mike and Chris climb on deck with several large boxes.

They start opening the boxes.  One is a case of Coca Cola,

another is full of cigarettes and candy.

The crew shakes their heads, mutter and check out the

goods.

John is still grooming at the window.

John continues to comb.

Phil slinks away.

Chris displays a Playboy magazine.  Everybody clamors to

get a look.

John walks by, snatches the magazine and heads for his

bunk flipping through the pages.

John flops in a deck chair.  Chris shakes his head and

starts closing up the boxes.

EXT.  STERN - LATER

Chuck sits alone, away from the others, reading.  On cue,

half of the crew descend, dragging him kicking and

screaming into the bowswain's chair, and over the side.

The guys cheer.

The seat spins, twists and swings from behind the boat.

They lower the chair so it glides just above the surface.

When the boat noses into a swell Chuck gets quite a ride.

Once he has the hang of it, fear turns to elation.

Chuck's hauled back in and Terry pushes his way to the

front of the line.

Terry goes over the side.  Once he gets the hang of it, he

gets into it.  He maneuvers the chair like a plane,

forcing himself deep into the waves and then blasting back

to the surface.

OFF THE PORT SIDE

Robin is trolling.  The line takes a tremendous hit and

Robin's reel screams.  Tod is at the wheel and turns.

Two hundred feet out something large and pissed has taken

the bait.  The crew turn and look.  Skipper looks out at

Terry still in the bowswain's chair.

Bill waves at Terry to come on in.

Terry waves him off and disappears back under the waves.

They can't pull him up while he's going under the water.

Terry pops up, pissed that they're reeling him back in.

Suddenly the animal on the other end of Robin's line

explodes out of the sea.  It's a six foot Thresher shark.

Terry sees it too and freaks, suddenly thrashing and

screaming.

George grabs a gaffing hook while Robin fights the rod,

trying to bring in the big fish.

Robin battles the fish.  George clumsily tries to help.

The crew make their way to the rear to watch.

Charlie and Rick and the others heave to get Terry up.

Finally he makes it.  Sprawling onto the deck.

The crew turn and cheer Robin on as he brings the shark

alongside.

George leans out over the rail, trying to get the hook

into a gill.  Several of the boys hold onto him as the

fish flops around violently.

Skipper comes down to inspect the catch.  The shark is

longer than Terry is tall and thrashes in the the water,

snapping and twisting.  Terry stands shaking, freaked.

All of them are.

The guys laugh nervously.  Terry just stares at the man

eater, but it's infectious.  After a moment he's laughing

too.  Skipper slaps him on the back with a wry smile.

More laughter.  Suddenly, Tom, who is lookout on the

foretop, cries out.

Everyone turns around to look.  The guys at the stern let

go of George and he nearly tumbles overboard.  In that

instant, the shark slips off of the gaff, and disappears

back into the sea.  Robin and George share a stunned look.

Skipper returns to the wheelhouse with Alice.  Together

they scan the horizon.  Clouds build over the land ahead.

He slips an arm around her.

EXT.  ANTIGUA - HARBOR - DAY

A group of islanders have assembled to watch the crew

approach in the long boats.

INT.  LONG BOAT - SAME

Chuck gazes across the strange landscape.  As the boats

dock, the crew pile out and scatter.  Local children

follow them wherever they go.  Chuck, Robin and John find

themselves alone.  Most of the buildings are primitive.

They wander over to a shop.

EXT.  SHOP

Chuck and Robin reappear, sipping cold Cokes.  Mike and

Chris walk by across the street.  Robin speaks up loud

enough for them to hear.

The three clink their bottles.  Mike and Chris slink away.

EXT.  COLONIAL FORT - DAY

A crumbling fort overlooks the harbor.  Below, the

Albatross floats like a pearl on the azure blue water.

Large bronze muzzle-loading cannons still lie in their

gunports, aimed at the sea, waiting for pirate ships that

will never come.

Each of the guys are sprawled on a cannon, taking in the

Caribbean view.

They crack up.

John and Robin crack up.

They bust up again.  Chuck glares back.

Robin sits up on his cannon and looks out, suddenly

melancholy.

Robin looks up to John.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - HARBOR - NIGHT

The boat moves off leaving the lights of Antigua behind.

Chuck watches as the island disappears below the horizon.

EXT.  DECK - DAY

The wind is up and the seas are high.  The ship is under

full sail driving at top speed.  Foam sprays from the bow

as it slices through the water -- what she was born to do.

The crew line the starboard rail, thrilled to be part of

the performance.

Tod is at the wheel with Chris nearby.  The sails tower

above him like a mountain of silk.  He wrestles the wheel,

careful to hold his course against the powerful trade

winds.

Skipper, making his rounds inspects the heading on the

compass and nods.

Tod and Chris beam.  Compliments are rare from this man.

Skipper turns and looks at Tod, a twinkle in his eye.

Gravy.  The two gloat as they lighten the mainsheet

tackle.  Phil joins them.

They laugh.  Phil slinks behind the chart house, hurt, and

angry.  He spots a spear gun stowed against the chart

house.

As Tod and Chris pull in the main, it strains and

stretches against the powerful wind.

Phil aims the spear gun at the mainsail from behind the

chart house and silently fires.  There is a wicked POP as

the spear punctures the sail, passing through it, followed

by a loud shredding as the huge sail splits.

The sound brings Skipper onto the deck like a shot.

Calamity, as Tod cranks the ship into the wind.  The

canvas goes limp as the ship hauls to a dead stop.  People

dive everywhere to drop sail.

He shoots a glare at Tod and Chris.

Skipper turns to the task at hand without a word.  What

had been praise is now reduced to embarrassment and

confusion.

Phil, still hidden behind the chart house returns the

spear gun and smiles to himself at Tod's arrogance turned

humility.

EXT.  DECK - TOBAGO CAYS - DAY

The Albatross has dropped anchor along a remote group of

flat, lush atolls.  Tall palm trees grow almost to the

waters edge.  The crew have the mainsail down and Alice

supervises the repair of the sail.  Phil sits above it all

sunning himself in the bowswain's chair.

Phil reels himself down.

Robin looks up, taken back.

Skipper comes on deck.  Robin and Chuck flip Phil and

Terry the finger.

The crew reacts, grumbling.

George appears from the galley and rings the ships bell.

The crew drop what they're doing and stampede down into

the cabin.

INT.  CABIN - NIGHT

Robin thrashes in his bunk calling out.  Sweat glistens on

his face.  Chuck stumbles out to his bunk with Rick and

some of the others.

They shake him.  Robin wakes, disoriented, eyes filled

with tears.

Phil grumbles from his bunk.

Phil rolls over in his bunk trying to go back to sleep.

He pats Robin on the leg.  The guys return to their bunks.

Favor Phil, listening.

Robin stares at the photo of his brother.

Phil stares at the ceiling, affected by what he has

overheard.  Someone creeps down the companionway and

whispers.

Shuffling in the darkness.  Phil suddenly realizes, he's

alone.

EXT.  DECK - NIGHT

The dory hangs from her gallows.  Some of the guys slowly

lower her to the water.

INT.  GALLEY - SAME

George is asleep with a book in his lap.  Mike and Chris

slip inside.  The door squeaks, George stirs.  Mike opens

a cabinet and removes a fifth of rum.

Silently, Mike passes the bottle to Chris who passes it to

Tod who passes it to Charlie who drops it down to Robin

who stands in the lowered dory with Chuck.

Startled, Mike and Rick share a look.  Busted.  Phil turns

and runs into John, wearing a broad smile, who shakes his

head.  No way.

The crew descend and drag Phil, struggling, into the dory.

They raise a crude sailing rig and silently move off.

A figure stands on top of the chart house, back lit by the

moon.  It's Skipper.  Watching it all.  Letting it unfold.

INT.  GALLEY - NIGHT

Skipper hovers over George, sawing logs.  He tosses a pot

on the floor.

The book is "Kafka".  Skipper motions to the empty

cabinet.

EXT.  CAMPFIRE - NIGHT

The boys sit in a circle around a small fire passing the

bottle.  Rick strums his guitar and sings while the rest

join in.

Skipper and George crawl to the top of a sand dune and

watch the boys.  George starts to stand but Skipper puts a

hand on his shoulder.

On the boys.  Phil is drunkest of them all and does a wild

jig as the rest of them sing.

They all crack up.

The rest join in.

More laughing.

Bill drunkenly imitates the Skipper.

The boys laugh.  On the dune, George shakes his head.

Skipper smiles.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

The drunken crew stumble out of the woods onto the beach.

As they ready the boat for the trip back Robin looks out

to sea...

Tod looks up.

The guys turn their gaze to the ocean.  The Albatross...

is gone!

The crew is suddenly stone sober.  Stunned.

Phil breaks into sort of a blind panic.

Oddly, it's Phil who stands up for Robin.

Without warning.  John lunges at Phil.  Phil screams,

trying to defend himself.  The guys all dive in.  Suddenly

it's an all out brawl.

John out of control pounding Phil's head against the seat

of the boat.

Suddenly, from behind, comes a blistering "THWACK!!" as

Chuck breaks an oar over the back of John's head.

Stunned, John lets go of Phil and turns, blood dripping

from the back of his head.

He weaves, then passes out, falling face down in the sand.

The guys stagger to their feet, trying to recover.

Chuck tosses the broken oar handle, kneels over and

vomits.

Chuck and Robin hoist John up and drag him under a palm

tree, propping him up.  The others huddle to stay warm.

EXT.  BEACH - MORNING

The crew's asleep in the tropical heat of day.  Bloodied

and sun burned.  A fly buzzes around Rick's face, waking

him.  He sits up sunburned and sore trying to focus.  He

gazes across the water, stupefied.

The others stir and follow his gaze.  The Albatross sits

in exactly the spot where they left her.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - DAY

The sound of a rod and reel spinning wildly.  George tries

to maintain control as the rod nearly jumps out of his

hands.

Skipper, Alice and Bill watch the shoreline as the boys

launch the long boat into the surf.  George is struggling.

A beautiful tarpon leaps out of the water, but Skipper

never takes his eyes off of his boys.

Suddenly George's line goes slack.  He nearly falls over

backwards.

EXT.  DECK - DAY

Hound dog and hung over, bloodied and burned, the boys

stand before Skipper and the others.  Skipper looks dark

and angry.

Chris jabs him in the ribs.

Skipper turns and faces them.

He takes a pause making sure he has their attention for

this part.

He walks back to his place at the rail.

Dejected, the crew goes below.

EXT.  DECK - DAY

Under sail.  Skipper stands at the wheel overseeing the

crew taking exams.  Each writes furiously as Alice

scribbles problems on the blackboard which hangs from the

chart house door.

As the boys scratch out the problems, John seems

paralyzed.  He looks over at Phil and copies down his

answer.  He checks crib notes hidden in his shorts.  Chuck

and Robin both see this and exchange looks.

INT.  AFT CABIN - DAY

John makes his way down the narrow corridor towards the

head.  Robin follows.  Chuck drops down the aft

companionway, intercepting John.

John turns around, surprised, sandwiched.

Chuck throws open the Engine Room door and they shove John

inside.

Chuck manages to pin John.  Robin checks his pockets and

comes up with the crib notes.  Chuck lets go.  John

snatches them, ashamed.

John turns away.

John lunges at Chuck, sending them both sprawling.  Robin

leaps on top of John.

John explodes, tears flowing.

He lets go of Chuck and stands up trying to hide his

emotions.

John chokes back a sob.

The three turn around, startled.

John looks down, resigned.

They turn and look to Phil, who still shows the tell-tail

signs of their fight.

EXT.  CURACAO - HARBOR - DUSK

As a blazing sun sizzles into the western sea, the

Albatross rounds a point and heads towards the docks

several hundred yards away.  On the dock, the students of

the school wait.  As soon as the ship is in view, they

start to cheer.  Chuck squints.

Robin calls up to Phil, who is at the wheelhouse.

Phil picks up the binoculars and focuses.

Phil lowers the binoculars and turns to Skipper.

Skipper shares a knowing look with Alice.

Tod snatches the binoculars.

Everyone on board rushes to the port side.  Every single

person on the dock is a young girl waving a white

handkerchief.  Spontaneous cheers from the boys.

As the 'Big A' pulls to the dock, John and Tod run for the

gunnel door and swing it open.  The girls flood the deck.

They chatter in Dutch and hurry aboard.  Like wall

flowers, Robin, Phil and Chuck stand on top of the chart

house watching utopia unfold before them.

Phil reaches up for a free line.  With a running start he

swings out over the water...

He careens back onto the deck and lands in front of two

startled, but impressed girls.  Robin and Chuck applaud.

Phil takes a bow.  All hell is breaking loose.

Skipper and Alice welcome aboard the headmaster, MS.

BOYDE, 50's, dumpy but tough.

A man's voice bellows up from the dock.

Everyone stops and freezes.  Phil turns, disbelieving.

It's his parents, Francis and PEGGY BOUTILLIER, standing

next to a limousine dressed in brightly colored tourist

garb.

Francis comes aboard uninvited as usual.

Skipper shoots a look over at Phil who is staring a hole

in the deck.

Francis flushes red.

He turns and joins Peggy on the dock.  Phil is suddenly

full of rage.  This is an invasion of his privacy.

Everyone feels it.

Phil's anger turns to resigned humiliation.  He stops,

staring down at his parents.  Skipper puts a hand on his

shoulder.

Phil nods, head down and walks down the ramp.  All watch

him go, feeling for him.

EXT.  OPEN WATER - DAY

The sails begin to rise but unlike earlier, the guys SING

out like the Vienna Boys Choir and it's having the desired

impressive effect on the women.

The weather was perfect, brisk and steady under the trade

wind swells.  The voices trail away as the ship moves off.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - NIGHT

The crew is getting ready for a farewell party.  Each

member is primping.

Tod smiles as he slowly pulls something from his pocket.

It's a pair of girls' cotton underwear.

The guys try to wrestle the underwear away from him.  Just

then Skipper descends the companionway.

The crew cheer.  This means the trip goes on.

EXT.  SCHOOL - GARDENS - NIGHT

Decorated with colored paper lanterns and streamers, a

STEEL DRUM BAND softly plays in the b.g.  The crew slow-

dance with their girls, dressed in cotton that seems to

glow against their dark skin.

Ms. Boyde is scrutinizing the body contact between Chuck

and BREGITTA.  Their lips appear pasted together and she

doesn't like it.  Lawford sees what is about to happen and

hands his slimy cigar to George who reacts.

Lawford intercepts Ms. Boyde.

Ms. Boyde is so flattered, it is all she can do to extend

her hand.  Lawford leads her away and glares at Rick.

Ms. Boyde giggles like a school girl.

EXT.  RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Phil and his parents sit outside at a ritzy restaurant.

Phil stares towards the harbor.

Francis slaps Phil across the face nearly knocking him out

of his chair.  Everyone and everything.  It's humiliating.

She cradles Phil's red face.  He fights the tears.

Phil pulls free and exits.  He can feel eyes all over him.

EXT.  SCHOOL - GARDENS - NIGHT

Alice watches, swept up in the nostalgic romance of it

all.  Skipper joins her.

Skipper manages a sad smile.

She smiles warmly.

Skipper turns and stares at her deeply.

Alice smiles and turns back to the dancers.

The music changes to a calypso waltz.  Skipper takes Alice

by the hand.

She's sixteen again.  There's something about him that

still makes her blush.

Skipper leads her to the dance floor.  He hesitates,

looking deeply into her eyes.  As they begin to dance, the

boys notice and exchange looks.

Lawford and George sit across the quad, sipping punch and

smoking cigars.

One by one the couples clear for the Skipper and his

bride.  They glide, lost in each others arms.  They dance

a dance for the ages.  As if it might be for the last

time.  The music swells.

EXT.  PIER - NIGHT

Chuck and Bregitta, are at the end of the pier, a full

moon hangs above the horizon.  Bregitta doesn't understand

what Chuck is saying, but it's clear she's enjoying him.

Bregitta smiles and takes Chuck's hand.  He's nervous.

Bregitta takes Chuck's face gently and kisses him

tenderly.  Then, in perfect English...

Chuck's eyes widen, astonished.  Bregitta smiles, takes

Chuck by the hand, and leads him to a small covered boat

moored to the pier.

Blushing deeply, Chuck follows her into the boat.

EXT.  STREET - SAME

Robin walks down the street hand in hand with one of the

girls.  A long string of colored lights illuminate the

length of the street.  Robin clumsily tries to kiss the

girl.  She laughs.

Suddenly there's a flash and the sound of breaking glass.

Robin looks up to see Phil staggering, down the street,

smashing each of the colored light bulbs with a stick.  He

showers himself with broken glass and sparks.

She smiles sadly and nods.  Robin sprints down the pier

and catches up with Phil.  His feet are bleeding.  He is

completely smashed.

THWACK!  He scores another bulb.  Robin jumps out of the

way.

The music drifts from the gardens ahead.  Phil bolts.

Robin chases after him.

EXT.  SCHOOL - GARDENS - NIGHT

John shares a joke with Lawford and George.  The calypso

is cranking, but only John hears Phil and Robin crash into

the refreshment table.  Robin struggles to stop Phil.

Lawford nods, oblivious.

ON THE GUYS

John tries to help Robin with Phil.

Phil kicks and struggles.

They drag him into the darkness.  From near the bandstand

however, Skipper has seen it all.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - NIGHT

The crew lean along the rail waving goodbye to the girls

who wave back with their white handkerchiefs.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - SAME

Chuck and John hold Phil still as Robin picks shards of

glass out of his feet.  Phil clenches his jaw, but his

eyes are dry.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - DAY

The ship is under full-sail driving before a brisk

following wind.  It takes two on the helm to keep her

safely on course.  Those not on watch are sprawled about

the boat, scraping and 'red-leading' or reading.  Chuck

and Robin sit forward with John, studying.  Lawford paces

the deck, chiding the crew.

John looks down, dejected.  Suddenly Tod cries from the

foretop.

Everyone rushes to see.  Dolphins leaping out of the

water.  It's a magnificent game they play with ships.  The

crew cheers as each one explodes out of the sea, close

enough to touch.

Isolated, Phil watches.  Angry, cut off.  Chuck eyes him,

worried.

Bill and Charlie rig the bowswain's chair and lower Rick

into the water.  Suddenly, the dolphins are everywhere.

Rick pets them as they swim back and forth.  Shear joy.

Phil reaches for the spear gun.  Nobody notices as he

loads and takes aim.

Suddenly... with a crack, everyone spins around.  A large

female dolphin leaps out of the water, bloody foam

spraying from her blow hole.  She lets out an agonizing

scream.  Phil holds her fast.

The crew can only watch, stunned.  Phil is suddenly,

defensive as if waking from a dream.

Skipper steps on deck, sees the dolphin and Phil with the

spear gun.

A dory is lowered with John and Bill inside.  Once near

the water they maneuver the struggling dolphin into a

canvas harness.  The crew hoist her with the davit tackle,

swing her inboard, and gently lower her to the deck.

They gather around the gasping animal.  Alice checks the

wound.  Skipper kneels beside her.

Alice shakes her head and gently strokes the dolphin.

Skipper turns to Phil.

Phil looks up at the crew but one by one they look away.

Chuck finds this confusing and inexcusable but is the last

to look away.  Skipper grimly walks over to one of the

deck lockers and pulls out a large wooden mallet and holds

it out to Phil.

Phil looks at the mallet, horrified.

Phil backs away.  Skipper stares at him for a moment, then

walks over to the dolphin.  Robin looks away.  The

sickening sound of the mallet crushing the skull of the

animal seems to silence the world.  There are one of two

thumps of her tail and, it's over.

Skipper tosses the bloody mallet into the locker and

approaches Phil, his face flushed with anger.  He grabs

the spear gun, and snaps it across his knee and throws the

pieces into the sea.

Phil begins to shake with rage.

Robin holds his ears as if he can make it all go away.

For a brief moment Phil looks as if he might take Skipper

up on the challenge.  Then the impulse passes.

Skipper turns.  The humiliation is more than Phil can

take.  He lunges after Skipper.  Lawford grabs him.  Phil

swings wildly.

Lawford leads Phil, struggling, below.  The crew surround

the dead dolphin, stunned.

EXT.  ARUBA - ESTABLISHING - DAY

The Albatross is at anchor in the center of the harbor.

EXT.  DECK - SAME

Phil comes on deck from below with his duffel bag.

Everyone feels bad but no one knows what to say.  Phil

turns to get a second load.

Phil turns and disappears down the companionway.

Robin flushes bright red.  John fires a look at Mike.

There is a long pause.  Mike and Chris cave.

Robin exchanges a glance with Chuck and together, they

climb up the companionway.

EXT.  CHART HOUSE - SAME

Chuck and Robin stand before the door.

Robin turns away, ashamed.

INT.  CHART HOUSE - SAME

Skipper and Alice have paperwork spread out in front of

them.  A knock.

Chuck enters, awkward.

Skipper looks up.

Alice raises her eyebrows, surprised.

Chuck does as he is told.

Skipper looks at Chuck for a moment.

Suddenly it's as if Chuck is talking about his own life.

Skipper sits up and studies Chuck for a moment.

Chuck chews on it.

Now it's Skipper who is talking about himself.

Chuck nods and leaves.

EXT.  CHART HOUSE - SAME

As Chuck exits he meets Robin's eyes.  He shakes his head.

INT.  CHART HOUSE - SAME

Skipper returns to his paperwork but can feel Alice

watching him.  He senses it.

Alice smiles.

Skipper puts a loving hand on Alice's shoulder.

Alice runs her hands across his face.

Skipper turns and slips into her arms.

EXT.  DECK - DAY

Phil is in the long boat with Skipper, ready to shove off.

Tension is high.  It's as though they're all waiting for

Skipper to give Phil a reprieve.  But, it's not coming.

They mumble goodbyes.  Terry and Rick pass down Phil's

bags.

Phil nods and turns to Skipper.

Skipper starts to pull the oars to make the crossing to

the dock as the crew watches them go.  Robin turns,

staring at the ships bell.

EXT.  DOCK - SAME

Skipper ties off the boat and Phil hands up his bags.  A

black limousine waits, brooding.  Phil climbs up with

Skipper and stands, stares at it.  The back door opens,

but nobody gets out.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - SAME

The crew stand, watching.

Then, suddenly...

All stares aloft.  In the rigging, climbing up the mast,

is Robin.  With the ships bell in his teeth, he is

sweating every rung.  Perspiration glistens on his brow.

The crew watches, transfixed as he fights his way towards

the foretop.

EXT.  DOCK - SAME

Phil turns to Skipper.  Working up some courage to say

something, anything.  But all that comes out is...

A pause between them.

Skipper extends a hand and they shake.  Phil is about to

turn, when a familiar sound draws their attention.

EXT.  FORETOP - SAME

Robin, holding on for dear life at the top of the mast,

rings the ships bell triumphantly over his head, waving to

Phil.  Victorious.  Ding ding!  Ding ding!  Ding ding!

The crew begin to cheer.

EXT.  DOCK - SAME

Phil stares back, fighting his emotions.  Slowly he raises

his hand in a single wave of acknowledgement.  The ringing

stops as his eyes meet Robin's.  Waves back.  Skipper

turns.

Phil chews on it.  Then...

ROBIN'S POV

Robin watches as the limo pulls away.  He rings the bell

wildly.  The crew below wave in a show of silent protest.

AERIAL SHOT

Robin, the Albatross and the drama unfolding below spin

slowly away as we climb, turning, higher and higher.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - ESTABLISHING - DAY

Foam sprays from her bow as the Albatross slices through

the swells.

INT.  CABIN - SAME

Tod exits the head with a worried look on his face.  He

grabs Chuck by the arm and pulls him aside.  Morale is

extremely low.

Chuck reacts.

INT.  SKIPPER'S CABIN - DAY

Tight on Alice.  Pull back to reveal Tod standing in front

of her with his shorts down around his ankles.  Mortified.

Alice gets up and moves to her medicine chest.  Tod starts

to pull up his shorts.

She pulls out a menacingly large looking hypodermic

needle.  Tod's embarrassment turns to alarm.

EXT.  DECK - LATER

The crew stand in line, pissed.  Lawford and George man

the deck with Skipper and exchange amused looks.  The door

opens and Chris exits, red faced, rubbing his backside.

He glares at Tod who sits on the paint locker.

Lawford swings up a pair of binoculars.  A vessel under

power is coming up fast behind them.  He holds the binocs

out to Skipper.

Skipper turns and looks.

The ship pulls along the port side, keeping a couple

hundred yards between them.  The boys move to the rail.

George sees them first.

Everyone becomes alarmed.  Even Alice looks concerned.

Suddenly a puff of smoke discharges from the gun boat.

The entire crew hit the deck as a shell rockets across the

bow exploding in the water.

Skipper grabs the American flag and starts waving it.

The crew scrambles for the rigging, frantically dropping

sail.

As the sail comes down, the Albatross slows to a stop.

The Cubans inch closer and begin speaking over a loud

speaker in Spanish.  The seas are high and the two ships

rise and fall with the large swells between them.

Chuck returns with a bull horn.

George replies in Spanish over the bull horn.  The Cubans

answer.

Another exchange between George and the Cubans.  The crew

lay flat on the deck, terrified.

Skipper defiantly swings up onto the gunnel rail.  The

Cuban Captain gives an order and one of his sailors jumps

into the turret of the anti aircraft guns and swivels

around pointing both barrels at the Albatross.  Skipper

stands firm, between the shrouds.  Silence.  A standoff.

George sends the return message.  There is a pause, then

the murmurs of the relieved crew.  Skipper swings down but

never takes his eyes off the gunboat.

INT.  CABIN - DAY

Laundry, books and mementos go flying as each boy

scrambles to dig up his passport.  Terry sits among his

things, dazed.  Bill notices.

EXT.  DECK - DAY

A small launch filled with Cuban soldiers approaches the

Albatross.  The crew climb on deck and line up along the

Chart House with their passports.  Lawford walks up to

Skipper.

The Cubans cast their lines up and climb aboard carrying

side arms.  Terry reluctantly joins his crew mates.  The

COMMANDING OFFICER faces Skipper as his men go down the

line checking the passports.  Others search the ship.

One of the Cubans pulls Terry out of line and brings him

forward.  He alerts the Commander in Spanish.

Terry is petrified.

Skipper stares him down.  The Commander signals to one of

his men who disappears into the Chart House.

Skipper doesn't really have a choice.

The Cuban returns from the Chart House with the Ships

sextant and hands it to the Commander.

Pointing to the ships compass.

Without hesitation the Cubans pull the large brass compass

from its base.

As they leave the ship, they pause.  The Commander looks

back at the Skipper, then deliberately drops both sextant

and compass into the sea.

Skipper stands towering above them.  The Cuban captain

smiles up at him.  Amazingly, Skipper addresses him in

perfect Spanish.

The Cubans stare back, frowning, amazed as they motor

away.

The crew are stunned by what they have just witnessed.

Skipper turns and meets the eyes of admiration, humility

and complete respect.  He joins Alice at the helm.  They

linger for a moment.

George smiles, impressed as well.

With a new attitude, they turn to Skipper.

The crew bolt to there positions.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - PANAMA CANAL - DAY

Panama appears on the horizon.  The Albatross is dwarfed

by the huge freighters moored around her, as she moves

through the locks.  The crew stand on deck in quiet

reverence.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - NIGHT

The sounds of slumber fill the cabin.  All seems well with

the world.  Suddenly, silhouettes in the darkness.  A huge

bearded figure stands in the center of the cabin with a

trident in his hand.

Chuck wakes with a start.  He bolts upright to see the

horrible figure of NEPTUNE himself (Lawford) towering

before him.  He tries to scream, but hands cover his

mouth.  He is dragged, struggling, up the companionway.

EXT.  DECK - NIGHT

The Albatross has been transformed into a ghost ship.

Where the sails once were, only shredded fabric.  All of

the crew have been brought on deck.  Powdered faces glow,

surreal.

John's head has been shaved into a mohawk.  Robin, Rick

and Chris have been reduced to crew cuts.  The shears

start over Chuck's head.  Neptune and his sidekick, DAVEY

JONES (George) and two MERMAIDS (Bill and Alice) emerge

with the rest of the crew.

Chuck struggles as his hair is shaved away and face

powdered.

Terry is brought topside kicking and screaming.

Terry shuts up and succumbs to the same fate as the rest.

EXT.  HELM - NIGHT

Neptune and his court sit smoking Havana cigars as each

member of the crew present themselves.  Robin dressed like

a pig and crawls around snorting.

John's an Indian brave, whooping and hollering as he does

a rain dance.  Chuck, with flippers on his hands and feet,

hops around like a frog.  Rick is in 'drag' as Neptune's

girlfriend and must sing everything he says.  Charlie is

dressed like a sloth and slithers along the deck.

Frenetic chaos.

EXT.  DECK - LATER

Neptune and his court lead a procession around the

perimeter of the deck.  The crew follows.  They stamp

their feet and chant.

They move faster and faster around the boat.  They shout

louder and louder, faster and faster until they have all

worked themselves into a frenzy.

EXT.  BOW - DAWN

Davey Jones, holds a large turtle shell over the crews

heads.  As each one passes before him he pours blood from

the turtle shell onto their heads.  It runs down,

streaking their floured faces and necks.  As the ritual

progresses, Neptune speaks.

The crew cheer and embrace.  Skipper calls from the wheel.

EXT.  GALAPAGOS ISLANDS - DAY

The crew stop their celebrating and gather at the port

bow.  Ahead, glowing orange with the dawn, the islands of

Galapagos.  It's desolate landscape of silent volcanoes

and ancient lava flows that spill into the sea.

The faces of the boys, still streaked with the indignities

of the night's ordeal, stand silently before their final

destination.

EXT.  BEACH - SHIPWRECK BAY - DAY

The Albatross rests at anchor.  On the beach, the crew

watch a huge group of penguins dive and frolic from the

ancient guano cliffs.  So unaccustomed are these creatures

to man, that they have no fear.

EXT.  LAGOON - DAY

Chuck, John and Rick snorkel among the playful SEA LIONS.

They dart and swim like otters among their new human

friends.

EXT.  LAVA OUTCROPPING - DAY

Terry, Chris, Chuck and Mike stand taking notes on exotic

birds.  Frigates, hawks, flamingos, pelicans, boobies, and

of course... albatrosses.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - DAY

The crew are sprawled across the deck taking final exams.

Alice walks among them.  Chuck throws an anxious look

towards John who is buried in his test.

EXT.  GRASSY LOWLANDS - DAY

Boobies nest in the grass.  Thousands of them and

amazingly, the crew can walk among them without them

batting an eye.  Chuck and Robin watch as the iguanas

sneak into unattended nests and steal eggs.

EXT.  DUNES - DAY

Chuck is alone gazing over the shoreline.  A huge flock of

finches darken the sky, circling the black sand beach.

Pure magic.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Beyond, the anchored Albatross rocks and bounces in a

blue-sky gale.  Chuck, John, Robin, Rick, Chris and Tod

stand by a dory watching the sea build.  They wear only

tattered shorts, their hair sun bleached and their skin

dark.

EXT.  ROCKS - SAME

Tight.  The eyes of predators.  Sharp, cunning, hungry.

EXT.  BLACK SAND BEACH - DAY

A lone wild goat grazes on the beach.  It looks up,

sensing something, unfamiliar, then, returns to it's

grazing.

Tight.  Thundering bare feet on the black sand.

The goat looks up again, this time it sees five

Homosapiens bearing down on him.  They come naked,

swinging their shredded clothing above their heads like

lassos.  Shouting, whooping, primal.  The goat bolts for

its life.

Pounding through the waterline like the wild horses of

Sable, the hunters charge after the hunted, closing.  The

goat's eyes are full of a terror it has never known.

The beach is broad and long with no cover.  The hunters

are gaining on the goat.  Splashing feet pound closer...

Suddenly they are upon the goat.  But, instead of

attacking it, they just run through it, passing it.  The

goat pulls up and stops, breathless, watching the naked

humans run.

Close on the faces of brothers, matching each other, step

for step.  The music builds as we...

FREEZE FRAME

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Wild eyes behind the charcoal painted masks of primal man.

The rhythmic beat of sticks clacking and voices chanting.

The heaping of driftwood into piles.  Taught and powerful,

the glistening bodies of young men.

Blue sparks leap from striking flint against stone.  A

flame is born.  Voices howl in guttural triumph.

As the flames leap and singe the darkness, silhouettes of

men pound the sand and cry out in a ritualistic dance.

The goat watches from the shadows, bemused, as the dance

builds to a frenzy.  The night sky is filled with the

building sound of raging fire, pounding surf and chanting

voices.

EXT.  ALBATROSS - SAME

The wind carries the sounds of ceremony across the water.

The flames from the beach reflect off of the water turning

the white hull of the ship, a deep flickering orange.  The

word A-L-B-A-T-R-O-S-S has been spelled in huge flaming

letters.  Alice joins Skipper at his place by the rail

watching.

EXT.  SHORELINE - DAWN

The white surf hisses as it washes among the cinders of

the evenings ritual.  The Galapagos have been returned,

for now, to the frigates and the iguanas.

Across the water against the rising sun, the Albatross,

under full sail, is bound for home.

EXT.  DECK - SAME

The crew stand at their posts.  The yards and foretop are

trimmed with sailors, their faces taught and their bodies

hard.  No one looks back.

EXT.  DECK - PANAMA CANAL - DAY

Alice steps onto the deck from the chart house with papers

in her hands.

The crew members collect their exams.  Chuck notices John

at the bow, alone, lost.

Chuck looks down at his exam apprehensively.

John slowly passes his test to Chuck.

John tries to choke back his emotions.

John looks out.

Chuck smiles and joins John's gaze over the water.

Chuck looks at his test grimacing.

It's Chuck's turn to fight emotion.

John smiles, clutching his exam.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - DAWN

The crew sleep in their bunks.  Lawford's voice rumbles

down the companionway.

Chuck, Tom, John, Terry and Tod roll out.  The dumb waiter

clatters down from the galley with the morning's

breakfast.  Skipper and some of the crew are already

eating.

EXT.  DECK - DAY

The Albatross is under full sail trying to take advantage

of what little wind there is.  The skies are gray and

dank.  Tod and Terry are at the helm.  Chuck and John are

amid ship.  John relieves Bill on the forward watch.

Suddenly, a huge lightning bolt explodes out of the sky

and strikes the water a hundred feet off of the starboard

beam.  Everyone jumps.

Skipper bolts onto the deck.

The crew nod sheepishly.  A very close call.

The clouds grow dark but no more lighting.  Tod laughs

nervously.  Everybody joins in.  It's contagious.  Even

Skipper manages a smile.

Skipper starts back into the chart house when suddenly, a

powerful gust of wind drives the ship hard to a 45 degree

list to the starboard.  Skipper stops and turns.

Instinctively, John and Chuck spring for the rigging to

drop sail.

Skipper stares at the sky with the intensity of a cobra.

Waiting.  The wind eases.  It becomes eerily still.  The

ship slows and the sails go slack.  Silence.  Skipper

maintains his vigil.

CLOSE ON WATER

Foam and spray appear off of the tops of the swells like

the invisible footprint of a locomotive.  John sees it

first.

Everybody turns and looks.  Skipper's eyes suddenly widen

as he realizes...

The charging wall of wind slams into the topsails so hard

it send a shudder throughout the ship.  The wheel is

nearly ripped out of Tod's hands.  Instinctively, he tries

to turn the ship into the wind.

Confused, panicked, Tod keeps turning to the left, into

the wind.  Skipper struggles to get to the wheel but when

the ship heals so badly he slides sideways across the

deck.

Finally, Tod does as he is told.  But as soon as the ship

starts to come about, the vicious wind drives her further

onto her side.  As the deck becomes vertical Chuck half

slips, half tumbles down to the starboard gunnel.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - SAME

Robin, Chris, Bill, Mike and Rick are seated at the table

finishing breakfast as the ship starts to go.  They all

share growing alarm as they watch the table reach it's

maximum angle.  Dishes start sliding off.

EXT.  DECK - SAME

Skipper manages to grab the ax mounted on the chart house

and cuts the mainsheet with a single blow.  But it's too

late.  The tall masts plunge into the ocean and the sails

scoop tons of sea water, pinning the Albatross on her

side.

INT.  SKIPPER'S CABIN - SAME

Alice struggles towards the door.  The book case tears out

of the wall and strikes her.  She drops to her knees.  The

door swings open in front of her.  She reels for a moment

and then loses consciousness.

INT.  FORWARD COMPARTMENT - SAME

Lawford, Charlie and George are all hurled out of their

bunks.  The world is suddenly sideways.  Lawford leaps up,

pushing the others towards the companionway ladder.

George disappears into the main cabin.  Lawford manages to

get Charlie out.  As Lawford reaches the top of the ladder

sea water explodes through the hatch and drives him back

into the bowels of the ship.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - SAME

Robin is through the companionway in the chart house with

Mike right behind him.  But instead of exiting, he holds

the door open against the sea so that Mike can escape.

Mike gets through the door before the rushing sea slams it

closed, pinning Robin's arm.  He struggles to push

through.

EXT.  DECK - SAME

John slashes at the lines securing the starboard lifeboat

with his knife and manages to free it before it is dragged

to the bottom.  He scrambles through the collapsed rigging

tangled above him for the port lifeboat.

AT THE STERN

The Albatross is going down.  Fast.  Chuck and Tod stand

on the after skylight.  Chuck catches glimpses of the

struggle going on below.

Skipper catches a glimpse of Alice through the skylight.

Water washes over her but she doesn't move.

INT.  SKIPPER'S CABIN - SAME

Skipper's face is pressed hard against the skylight.  His

muffled voice penetrates the cabin.  Alice stirs.  She

looks around, delirious.

He pounds uselessly on the teak deck then tears at the

planks, fingers bleeding.  Alice looks up confused but

calm and finds Skipper's eyes.

ON THE DECK

Panicked for the first time in his life Slipper swings the

ax wildly at the perpendicular deck sending a shower of

splinters into the water.

But after only two swings, the Albatross and Alice, slip

beneath the sea.

INT.  MAIN CABIN - SAME

Water thunders in from every possible exit.  Chris and

Rick push Bill towards the dumbwaiter.

Before he can say no, Rick and Chris jam Bill into the

tiny shaft.  Suddenly, from below, a tremendous geyser

smashes him to the top, knocking him unconscious.  But the

pressure is so great that the water sweeps him through the

galley and out onto the deck.

EXT.  DECK - SAME

Skipper struggles to reach John and the second life boat

but sees that it is tangled in the rigging.

John defies him and keeps cutting.  The ship is almost

completely submerged.

Suddenly one of the deck lockers breaks free and plunges

into the water taking lines and rope with it.  John

becomes tangled and is dragged into the water.  Only his

superior strength allows him to hold onto the lifeboat and

keep cutting.

The Albatross slips beneath the surface.  Instead of

trying to free himself John keeps slashing at the lifeboat

lines as he disappears, swallowed by the sea.

INT.  FORWARD COMPARTMENT - SAME

Eerie silence.  Lawford is trapped in an tiny air pocket.

Debris float around.  He begins to panic as the water

around him rises.

He takes a deep breath and the water consumes him.  Then

suddenly, the ceiling above him explodes from the pressure

within.

ON THE SURFACE

Lawford is catapulted from the grip of death, to the

surface.

EXT.  SURFACE - SAME

Chuck continues to frantically dive on the chart house

door as the ship takes the 'Deep Six'.  Suddenly the ship

rolls 180 degrees, her screws exposed and keel jutting up

like a huge dorsal fin.

EXT.  UNDERWATER - SAME

Chuck feels the ship coming down on top of him but still

finds Robin's arm.  They clasp tightly, but Chuck just

can't budge the door.  Then, strangely, Robin releases

Chuck's arm and pulls it back through the door.  Chuck

looks up, startled.  The small round window in the door is

illuminated from the cabin lights on the inside.

Through the glass, Chuck meets Robin's frightened eyes.

He fights to stay in a shrinking air pocket.  Robin takes

a last gulp of air then, a calm comes over him.

He meets Chuck's eyes again but this time with a strange

acceptance.  They both know what's happening.  But Robin

has refused to take his friend to the bottom with him.  He

presses his hand to the glass.  Chuck does the same.  Then

with a smile, Robin pushes himself away from the door,

disappearing into the darkness and eternity.

EXT.  SURFACE - SAME

Chuck breaks the surface, gasping for air.  He looks

around, frantic.  He sees nothing but the sea swells and

debris.  All that remains is the sound of the wind and

rain on the water.

Suddenly, beneath him, a massive rumbling and explosion of

foam.  Then, the tops of twin masts rise out of the water

like shattered lances as the ship rights herself

underwater.  She holds herself steady for a moment as if

in a final attempt at resurrection, the Albatross begins

to rise.  Faster and faster, until her entire length

explodes out of the water in a mountain of foam and wave.

ON THE DECK

Like Ahab before him, John appears, lashed in a web of

tangled line still slashing to free the remaining long

boat.

And for a moment, it looks as if she might stay there, as

if this were just a final surreal lesson of the sea.  Some

of the boys begin to cheer prematurely.  But Skipper knows

better.  She's filled to the gills with sea water.

She shutters.  Then, like a stone, she just drops, sucked

to the center of the earth, John's hands still slashing,

as she finally goes.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

Survivors hanging onto the debris that floats in the

watery tempest.  Strangely, the wind subsides.  The sea

becomes calm and a stunned silence falls over those in the

water.

His scream echoes, for the grief of all.

ON THE SURFACE

There is an explosion of bubbles, and then she slips

beneath the waves like a stone.  The stunned crew can only

watch.

Then, as if by magic, the second life boat erupts to the

surface.

Skipper fights off his emotions.  He knows what it means.

John died cutting it free.

Terry and Bill hang onto a life ring.  Blood runs from

Bill's head.  Charlie, Mike and several others hold onto

the side of the other freed life boat which has been

swamped.  Lawford floats on his back, unconscious, but

alive.  Several of the boys help pull him towards the

boat.

Skipper swims to the second boat, desperately looking for

those not accounted for.  But, they are gone.

Among the wreckage, the roof of the chart house.  The only

sound left is the ominous tolling of the ship's bell,

Robin's bell, still secure in it's fitting.

EXT.  LIFE BOAT - DAY

The boats have been floated and tied together.  Skipper is

in one, Lawford in the other.  One of the two boats has

been rigged with sail.  Skipper stands in the bow staring

into the ink blue water.

Bill studies him for a moment, then...

There is a long pause before Skipper answers.

There is something remarkably touching about this young

man trying to take care of him.  He puts a hand on

Skipper's shoulder.  It almost makes him crack.  He pats

Bill's hand gently.

Lawford nods sullenly.  Chuck looks out at the floating

wreckage around them, silent, lost.

Suddenly, there is a 'thump' on the hull of the boat.  The

survivors share a confused look.  Then it comes again.

Chuck looks out at the surface of the water.  It's

suddenly alive... With sharks.

They come by the dozens.  Ramming the boats and rummaging

through the debris.  They swarm around the boats until it

seems as if the water is boiling.  Chuck picks up an oar

and starts beating wildly at the sharks.

The others take up the cause and in a moment they are all

screaming and cursing the sharks.  It's a frenzy of grief

and anger.

Exhausted, Chuck stops slashing and stares out.  lost.

Like Robin's nightmare of his brother, this is all too

real.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

The tramp freighter GRAN RIO steams toward the life boats.

The crew stand silently, watching as the ship approaches.

EXT.  SHIP - DAY

Chuck stands on the deck of the Gran Rio as the last of

the crew scramble up cargo netting hung over the side.

Chuck stares out numbly watching as the two deserted long

boats drift away.

EXT.  DECK - GRAN RIO - DAY

Chuck, now dressed, stands in the same spot at the rail,

staring out.  A muffled sound pulls Chuck into the

present.  He walks slowly down the after deck to a cabin

door where sobbing escapes from the other side.  Chuck

turns the handle and cracks the door.

INT.  CABIN - SAME

Curled up on the floor next to his bunk is Skipper.  A

look of shock comes over Chuck's face.  Skipper has come

completely unglued, sobbing deeply.

Skipper turns slowly, looking up.  His eyes are red and

his face streaked with tears.  He looks at Chuck almost as

if he doesn't know who he is.  Lost.

Chuck reels.  It sounds more like a confession than an

outpouring of sadness.  Chuck closes the door.

EXT.  HARBOR - TAMPA FLORIDA - DAY

Skipper, back in control, and the crew, stand along the

port rail of the Gran Rio.  A small flotilla of pleasure

boats surround the ship and hundreds of people line the

pier.  It's an intimidating sight.

ON THE PIER

Pensive, worried, angry faces of parents and families.

Chaos.  Coast Guard Officials try to hold back the mob.

Angry shouts drown him out.

ON THE DECK

The CAPTAIN of the Gran Rio comes down from the bridge

with some of his officers and stand with Skipper and the

others.  Several COAST GUARD OFFICERS join them on the

deck.

Skipper turns to the Captain and extends his hand.

The Captain nods.  Skipper turns to his crew, looking over

them.  A smile of deep pride passes his lips.  They all

see it.  Then, between the Coast Guard Officers, he walks

down the ramp.  Lawford and the crew fall in behind.

EXT.  PIER - SAME

A shouting mob waits for them.  Reporters and spectators

shout and call out questions.  It reaches a fever pitch as

the crew descend.  Skipper reaches the bottom of the ramp,

his eyes meet a cool, familiar face.  Francis Boutillier.

Phil stands next to him, staring at the ground.

Skipper is shoved forward by the crowd pushing and

shoving.  The crew follow but are swept away.  Charlie

stops in front of Phil.

Flash bulbs explode.  Charlie and the others are descended

upon as reporters bark out questions.

Parents begin to realize who has been lost.  Agonizing

cries mix with jubilation.  It's emotional chaos.  The

crew members are driven apart, they call to each other,

suddenly aware of what's happening.

Terry suddenly finds himself smothered in the arms of his

MOTHER.  He strains to see what is happening to his

shipmates.

Reporters corner them blocking his view.  More reporters

clamor after Skipper, who doesn't reply.

Bill steps in between them.

The reporter pops a flash picture in Skipper's face.

Skipper flies around and knocks the camera to the ground.

The reporter jumps back, startled.

Skipper is swept away towards the CUSTOMS BOOTH by COAST

GUARD OFFICERS.  Skipper surrenders the manifest and it is

stapled to the outside of the door.

INT.  CUSTOMS HUT - SAME

Skipper is whisked inside.  The Coast Guard Officers lock

the doors behind them.

Skipper sits.  The wails of family members can be heard as

they see the list outside.  Flash bulbs and faces press

against the windows shouting questions.  He just stares at

the floor.

OUTSIDE

From above we can see the group swarm around the the booth

like angry hornets.  The crew are fractured and pulled

apart from each other.  Charles, fights his way through

the crowd.

Chuck tries to get to him.

They embrace.  Flash bulbs explode all around them.

A WOMAN

Stands, staring at the empty ramp.  Lost.  A man comes up

behind her and leads her away.

A reporter shoves a microphone in Chuck's face.

Charles grabs the guy and shoves him back into the crowd.

Chuck strains to see his crew mates but they have been

swept away.

Charles puts his arm around Chuck, still barefoot, and

together, they walk away.  Photographers trail after them,

popping off a few last photos.  Chuck turns and looks

back.

INT.  CAR MOVING - DOWNTOWN - DAY

A ride reminiscent of the one Chuck and his father took

before the journey began.  There is a gulf of silence

between them.  Charles breaks it.

Chuck stares out the window at the traffic and congestion.

A car in front of them runs a red light.  Charles slams on

the brakes.  Chuck is shaken up.  Charles notices.

Chuck manages a nod.

INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

Lavish and conspicuous by Chuck's recent standards, the

store is crowded and jammed with merchandise.

Claustrophobic.  Cash registers ring and MUZAK drifts in

from above.  Chuck follows as Charles pulls things off of

hangers and piles them into Chuck's arms.

EXT.  DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Charles peruses the racks.  He calls to Chuck.

Chuck calls from a dressing room.

INT.  DRESSING ROOM - SAME

Chuck is curled up in the floor of the tiny booth.  Still

dressed in the clothes from the Gran Rio, perspiration

beads on his skin.

Tears stream down his face.  He looks up and sees himself

in the mirror.  The eyes that look back are eyes of the

ages.  Involuntary sobs.  He begins to shake.  The tiny

booth suddenly like a crypt.  Tight, with no air.  Chuck

lets out a gasp.

Someone pulls open the curtain.  A MAN, from the next

booth, fat and middle aged stands before Chuck in a pair

of pants still sporting the price tags.  He looks down.

Chuck is suddenly in the throws of a full-on anxiety

attack.  He leaps up and pushes past the man.

EXT.  DRESSING ROOM - SAME

Chuck explodes out of the dressing room.  Running, almost

blind, he crashes into a rack of clothes.  Charles looks

up as he scrambles to his feet and bolts for the doors.

EXT.  STREET - SAME

Charles bursts through the doors, looking up and down the

street, but Chuck is... gone.

EXT.  BEACH - SAME

The setting sun paints Chuck's face with golden light.  He

stares out across the water.  Charles walks up behind him.

Charles puts his arm around his son.  Together they turn

and walk back towards the boardwalk, and the world.

INT.  COAST GUARD HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT

Skipper sits across from a Coast Guard Officer, TYLER, 60.

Tyler pulls out a file and lays it on the table.

Skipper nods.

Tyler is taken aback by Skipper's knowledge.

Tyler removes his glasses and studies Skipper.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Standard fare.  Two beds and a T.V.  Chuck's lacing a new

pair of sneakers.  Charles is in the shower.  There is a

knock at the door.  Chuck cracks the door.  It's Charlie.

INT.  BOATHOUSE - NIGHT

The crew stand by the bulkhead.  Bill tosses down a

newspaper.  The headline reads:  INVESTIGATION TO PROBE

SCHOOL SHIP TRAGEDY.

Tod lunges at Terry.  Bill and Charlie pull them apart.

Tod breaks down, sodding on his knees.

Terry drags on a cigarette, then grinds out the butt.

Tod looks up along with Bill and Charlie, all confused.

Bill turns and stares into the water, troubled.

It's a strong argument.  Even Charlie is troubled by the

implication.  There is a long moment of silence between

them.

Chuck frowns, troubled.

The guys react.  It's a no win situation.

EXT.  MOTEL - NIGHT

Chuck knocks quietly on the door.  Phil answers the door.

Chuck puts a hand out to stop him.

Phil meets Chuck's eyes, then looks away.

He turns again and reaches for the door.

Chuck hands him something.  Phil looks down, disbelieving.

It's the ship's bell.  Robin's bell.  Their symbol of

unity, of putting loyalty above fear.

He leaves Phil standing alone on the porch, full of

emotion, trying to grasp it all.

INT.  HEARING ROOM - DAY

A small courtroom.  The room is filled with the crew

members and their families, including the parents of the

victims, as well as the media.  Phil sits with his father

and dodges Chuck's eyes.  Coast Guard Officers Tyler,

DOWNING and SANDERS head the proceedings.

INT.  HEARING ROOM - LATER

Bill sits at the table with his parents as questions are

leveled at him.  Chief petty officers Sanders and Downing

ask most of the questions as Tyler oversees the

proceedings.

LATER

Phil is at the table with Francis.  Sanders asks the

questions.

Phil doesn't look up and speaks in whispers.

LATER

Francis is stumped for a moment but recovers quickly.

Phil rubs his temples as if he is going to explode.

INT.  HEARING ROOM - LATER

It is Skipper's turn at the table.

Chuck and the others look up astonished.  Mike shoots a

look towards Phil.

Skipper hesitates.

Whispers fill the room.

Again the crew members are struck.  Charlie turns to

Chuck.

Skipper looks over at Francis.  Phil stares at the floor.

Skipper manages an ironic smile.

Skipper stares down Sanders.  He turns to Tyler.

He turns to sit down, then stops.

Skipper bristles.

Skipper's silence is suddenly filled with rage.  Tyler

sees it and tries to intercept.

Sanders returns to his seat, rattled.  Tyler pounds his

gavel.

EXT.  BUILDING - DAY

The crew huddle in the parking lot.  Fractured, confused.

Chuck, Tod, Charlie and Bill, stand off by themselves.

LATER

Tod is on the stand.

Tyler removes his glasses.

Skipper is becoming uneasy.  He sees what is coming.

Tod meets Skipper's eyes.

The room is suddenly buzzing.  Tod's Father stands up.

Tyler turns to Skipper.

Skipper stands.

Skipper pulls out his wallet and takes out his license.

Skipper turns and lays his license down in front of Tyler.

Then he turns and begins walking towards the back of the

room.

The room erupts.  Crew members and their families hurl

accusations and blame.  Cameras flash.  Tyler tries to

regain control.  Suddenly Chuck stands, tall.

Skipper keeps walking.  His head slumps.  Tyler pounds his

gavel.

Tears begin to stream down Chuck's face.  His father,

Charles, slowly stands meeting his sons eyes.  Go for it.

Skipper keeps moving.

Skipper reaches for the door.  Suddenly a sound stops him

cold in his tracks.  Phil slowly rises.  Tears streaming

down his face.  Tightly in his hands he grips the ships

bell.  Ding ding.  Ding ding.  Ding ding.  It is the

ringing of the truth.  The tolling of their unity.

Phil ignores him.  Skipper slowly walks over, his eyes

never leaving Phil's.  He stops, facing him.  He gently

takes his hands and silences the bell.  Then he smiles and

puts a hand on the back of Phil's head fighting his own

emotions.  He turns to Chuck.

The room grows silent.

Chuck suddenly feels the eyes of the room.

He turns to the tribunal.

Chuck turns to Skipper.

Skipper nods.

The room is silent.  Then, a voice.  A golden tenor

singing like the wind.  Everyone turns.  It's Bill.

One by one the crew members stand and begin to sing.

Chuck turns, surprised to see his father rise and stand

with him.  Words or not.

They all stand facing Skipper and sing.  The voices build,

sweeping over everyone like a wave.

Skipper meets Chuck's eyes and those of his mates.  Only

now is his job finished.  He beams back.  The music swells

like an anthem, building, like a swell lifting a small

wooden boat over a jagged reef, until it rests safely in

the calm waters beyond.

The crew come together around Skipper one last time.  They

embrace.

EXT.  MYSTIC SEAPORT - HARBOR - DAY

Older Chuck has returned to the small building where the

funeral services were held earlier.  The people have gone

but the funeral urn remains.

EXT.  PIER - DAY

Chuck walks to the dock.  He has the funeral urn in his

hands.  He steps aboard a small sailboat and begins

untying her.  The HARBOR MASTER notices and steps out of

his office.

He walks over to the dock.

He tries to board the boat but Chuck greets him with the

sharp end of a gaffing hook.

He looks into Chuck's eyes and sees that he means

business.  He backs off.  Chucks pushes away and raises

the sail.  The harbor master watches, perplexed as the

small boat moves off for open water.

EXT.  OPEN SEA - SUNSET

Bathed in the orange glow of the sun, Chuck stands naked

against the ivory sail.

Chuck turns to the sea and speaks.

With a powerful heave, he hurls the Skipper's remains at

the sinking sun and into the arms of Neptune.

EXT.  BEACH - SUNSET

The same sunset, but from another time.  Four young men

walk along a deserted beach.  A small boat has beached and

rocks gently in the shallows.  The boys run up and look at

it.  On the stern are painted the words:  BRIGANTINE

ALBATROSS.

SLOWLY PULL BACK to reveal endless white sand, blue water,

the young men and the boat.

EXT.  GALAPAGOS - DUSK

Young again, their hair sun bleached and skins brown,

Chuck, John, Robin, Rick, Chris and Tod, pound through the

surf in a grinning footrace.  Brothers all.  Music builds.

FREEZE FRAME

