BEGIN TITLES - OPENING SEQUENCE MONTAGE

sound will continue throughout the title sequence as other

sounds fade in and out. We move forward and back in time.

EXT. APARTMENT - DAY

A sparrow flutters in birdseed on a window sill. More birds

crowd a bird feeder that hangs above.

EXT. SCHOOL PLAYGROUND - DAY

A lone child swings lazily on a swing. Other children tear

about in a wild game of chase.

INT. LUMBERYARD WAREHOUSE - DAY

CLOSE on a piece of wood as it is fed through a wood chipper.

A man finishes feeding the log into the chipper. He pauses to

wipe the sweat and grime from his face. He is WALTER, early

forties, features handsome but hardened by time.

INT. BUS - EARLY MORNING

Walter is silhouetted by the early morning light. He holds a

duffel bag in his lap and watches out the bus window.

The sun is just rising over the horizon, streaks of pink and

purple graze the frosted ground. Wilderness gives way to

frozen farmland.

INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - DAY

Walter stands at a counter, a female officer fingerprints

each finger.

EXT. LUMBERYARD - DAY

Walter and some other men drop the side of the flatbed truck

and trees crash to the ground.

EXT. BUS STOP - DAY

The bus pulls away, revealing Walter standing alone on the

sidewalk of a dilapidated neighborhood. He holds his duffle

bag.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DUSK

The 5 o'clock whistle BLOWS. Workers hustle to get their

coats and punch out. Walter stands in line, keeping to

himself. As his turn arrives to punch out he receives a rough

knock by two guys play-fighting behind him. Walter doesn't

react, punches out, and exits the door.

Vicki, a tough-looking but striking woman, stands in line a

little further back watching.

EXT./INT. APARTMENT - DAY

A superintendent opens the door to an apartment, then hands

Walter the keys. Her gaze is cold.

Walter closes the door and turns around. He stands in the

middle of a prefab/pre-furnished kitchen, living room area.

Light works its way through the dilapidated blinds.

INT. LUMBERYARD OFFICE - DAY

Walter shakes the boss's hand -- BOB, early thirties,

strapping and trim, is the manager of the business.

MARY-KAY, the secretary, looks up from her typing and takes

Walter in. Bob introduces them. She is in her early forties.

Walter follows Bob from the office, Mary-Kay watches as they

leave.

INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT

There is a flash as a camera snaps a photo.

Walter is captured in a photograph, standing against a baby-

blue background.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - DAY

Walter lifts the blinds. The birds flutter away.

Walter stands under the shower.

Walter, hair wet and clean shaven, tosses back some pills.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DUSK

Tires SCREECH as cars tear out of the driveway. Walter stands

at a bus stop across the street.

As Vicki walks across the lot, a car pulls up next to her and

men catcall and whistle out the window.

Vicki flicks them off. The men burst into hysterics and peal

out of the lot. She gets in her Jeep and leaves, tearing by

the bus stop.

chill. It is late winter. The trees are bare -- black

silhouettes against the darkening sky.

Walter turns towards the shelter for protection from the

wind. Filling the kiosk, a clothing advertisement displays a

young girl striking a seductive pose.

INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - DAY

CLOSE on a police file. A mug shot reveals Walter, many years

younger. Pages are flipped through giving glimpses of newspaper

clippings as well as typed documents. Words stand out --

"Convicted, 1st degree --," "3 counts --," "served --."

A plain clothes officer closes the folder and looks out his

office window where Walter stands being fingerprinted. This

is Sergeant LUCAS, mid-fifties, face creased and greying

hair.

INT. BUS - DAY

Walter watches out the window as farmland gives way to city.

Traffic builds, billboards line the highway.

INT. LUMBERYARD WAREHOUSE - DAY

Details of machines cutting the wood.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - DAY

Walter fills the bird feeder with birdseed.

There is the SOUND of children playing, and Walter looks up.

Walter's POV: Across the way, children play outside of the

school.

Walter watches then closes his window.

EXT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - DAY

Walter exits the police station and crosses the street.

INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT

CLOSE on fingers typing on a keyboard.

A computer screen shows Walter's image -- the photo just

taken of him against the blue background. Words appear across

the screen as they are typed, creating an Internet

notification page:

Released: 02/25/02 Qualifying Offense(s):____________

We MOVE in on the photo of Walter till it fills the frame.

FREEZE FRAME. All sound fades out.

The title "THE WOODSMAN" fades in.

END TITLES

INT. OFFICE - NIGHT

Walter sits in a small windowless office with his coat still

on. He looks at someone off screen.

Across from Walter, sits ROSEN, young, awkward and clearly

new to the profession, jotting something down in a notepad.

Walter doesn't say anything.

CONTINUED:

Rosen jots something on his notepad. Walter reaches over and

taps on the notebook.

Rosen looks at Walter for a long moment. Walter avoids his

gaze.

CONTINUED: (2)

CONTINUED: (3)

Walter looks at him flatly.

Rosen blushes.

Walter is silent.

EXT. PHARMACY, STRIP MALL - NIGHT

The sidewalk is crowded with pedestrians. Walter heads

towards the pharmacy entrance, but he is abruptly cut off by

a group of kids zooming by on their scooters and skateboards.

He pauses for them to pass, watches after them momentarily,

then proceeds inside.

INT. PHARMACY - NIGHT

Walter hands a prescription to a MALE PHARMACIST. The

pharmacist looks at the prescription. He glances at Walter

then goes over to a FEMALE PHARMACIST working in the back

area.

She reads the prescription, glances at Walter over her

bifocals, then back at the prescription. Walter has not

missed any of this.

A middle-aged shopper talking on her cell phone nearby looks

over and pauses in her conversation.

The male pharmacist scrambles to fill the prescription.

The shopper gasps. Walter looks at her and smiles. The

shopper stuffs her items in her cart and quickly leaves.

Walter stifles his grin.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Walter opens the door to his apartment, carrying a grocery

bag. As he flips on the lights, a metal object is thrown

across the room. He catches it with one hand. It's a can of

beer. A man laughs.

Carlos sits at the table with a six-pack. Walter sets the bag

on the table and pops open the can.

Carlos laughs.

Carlos stands and they awkwardly embrace.

There is silence. Carlos sits back down at the table and

opens another beer.

Walter starts unpacking the groceries.

CONTINUED:

Glancing at Walter, he realizes his blunder.

There is a brief silence as both men drink. Carlos looks at

Walter.

CONTINUED: (2)

Carlos gets up and walks over to the window. He gazes

outside.

Carlos glances at Walter, then back outside.

Walter walks over to the window.

C

CONTINUED: (3)

The two men laugh, but the laughter quickly fades.

C

C

CONTINUED: (4)

Carlos looks away.

They stiffly embrace. Then Carlos exits leaving Walter alone.

EXT. SCHOOLYARD - DAWN

is covered in frost. TILT UP to reveal Walter counting his

footsteps as he walks towards the school across from his

apartment building. The schoolyard is empty.

A bird's cry pierces the sky. Walter looks up to see a hawk

circling above. He watches for a moment then continues

walking.

W

W

CONTINUED:

He reaches the school entrance and touches it.

Walter looks at the hawk still circling above and hollers --

Slowly the SOUND of children fades in and a red ball bounces

to Walter's feet. He looks in the direction the ball came

from.

Nothing is there.

Walter looks back down at his feet. The ball is gone. The

sound of children fades back away and is replaced by a

rhythmic squeak. Walter looks towards the playground where an

empty swing sways back and forth in the wind, the chain

squeaking in its hinges.

T

the hawk being chased by two smaller birds.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

There is a tremendous crash as logs are dropped near the wood

chipper. Forklifts move and stack wood.

Walter stands at the end of a wood chipper, pushing a long

piece of wood through. Suddenly above the din of machinery

there is the sound of raised voices.

Walter looks across the way to see Vicki yelling furiously

and smacking a GUY around the head with her work gloves. The

man cowers, protecting his head from the blows. Some other

men nearby are doubled over in laughter.

V

W

S

CONTINUED:

very hard time keeping a straight face.

T

Vicki looks around and storms off, kicking a piece of wood

into one of the men, hard. She brushes past Walter on her way

to the exit. He watches after her.

INT. WAREHOUSE CAFETERIA - DAY

Vicki sits alone at a table eating a sandwich. She takes

large bites and eats fast.

Walter approaches carrying a tray of food. He pauses across

from where Vicki sits.

Vicki looks up.

Walter nods and keeps on walking. Vicki returns to her food.

After a moment, she steals a glance up at Walter.

Across the way, Mary-Kay watches Walter as he sits down to

the table neighboring Vicki's.

B

CONTINUED:

Bob sits down across from Mary-Kay with a tray of food and a

newspaper. He opens the paper and starts to read.

Bob looks across the room at Walter.

Bob ignores her and reads the paper.

Mary-Kay smiles to herself.

INT. BUS - DUSK

Walter sits on the bus. He is squeezed into the window seat,

the bus crowded with commuters and teenagers on their way

home from school. He focuses out the window.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Walter sits alone on his couch, watching a baseball game,

drinking a beer.

E

V

T

A

CONTINUED:

Walter switches off the TV.

EXT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - DAY

Walter crosses the street outside of his apartment and heads

towards the bus stop.

car looking out towards the school. The engine is off. He's

in his twenties, good build, nice clothes.

Walter looks at the man as he passes by.

T

street.

Walter looks in the direction of his gaze.

running in.

Walter looks back at the man. The man doesn't notice him.

Walter hurries to his bus stop.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Walter works feeding wood through the chipper.

passes. He remains intent upon his work.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DUSK

Walter walks across the parking lot, heading towards the bus

stop. Before he reaches the road Vicki's rusty old Jeep pulls

up alongside him and stops, honking to grab his attention.

V

CONTINUED:

Walter hesitates and looks down the road. There is no bus in

sight.

He gets in.

As they pull away, a beat up grey Chevy pulls into the

parking lot. Sergeant Lucas gets out of the car, and pauses

watching after Vicki and Walter. He then turns and heads into

the office.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Walter and Vicki drive silently. Vicki glances at Walter.

Walter looks out the window.

V

CONTINUED:

She gives him a look.

in, revealing a tattoo on her wrist of a pair of breasts with

angel wings.

Walter notices the tattoo. Vicki notices Walter notice. She

smiles at him.

Walter shrugs.

CONTINUED: (2)

Vicki laughs and stops at a red light.

She shoots him a look.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Vicki paces around the apartment.

Walter takes two beers from the fridge then turns and stands

holding them, watching her.

She looks at Walter.

V

CONTINUED:

Walter hands her a beer.

She takes a swig then gazes back out the window.

what little there is to look at.

V

W

CONTINUED: (2)

She looks closely at the bus map taped to the wall, the only

decoration in the place. She looks at Walter.

Walter drinks his beer and sits down on the couch.

D

B

CONTINUED: (3)

Walter looks at her in surprise.

Vicki leans in and kisses him.

She kisses him again.

Vicki looks at him.

She kisses him. Hesitantly, he kisses her back.

SERIES OF SHOTS - JUMPING FORWARD AND BACK IN TIME

A) BATHROOM: Walter's hands shake as he splashes water on his

face. His shirt is off, and he wears just his jeans. He looks

up at himself in the mirror.

up his chest, pulling his shirt over his head. Walter looks

at Vicki, already topless. He tentatively touches her breast.

C

all over, passionately. They roll so she is underneath him.

pulling Walter's hand to follow.

W

H

CONTINUED:

E) BEDROOM: Walter lies next to Vicki, staring up at the

ceiling, spent, still breathing hard.

F) BEDROOM: Walter gropes Vicki's body and urgently pulls her

underwear off.

G) BEDROOM: Walter and Vicki are completely engrossed in each

other, making love.

the faucet off.

INT. WALTER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Vicki lies in bed, relaxed, smoking a cigarette. The sheets

are pulled to her waist.

Walter enters and sits on the side of the bed. He smiles

shyly at her.

Walter looks at her. Vicki laughs and nudges him in the butt

with her foot.

CONTINUED:

Walter gets up and walks over to the window.

Walter looks out the window, silent.

CONTINUED: (2)

Walter is silent.

Walter has run out of excuses. Vicki drops her cigarette in

an empty beer bottle and slides deeper under the covers.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - MORNING

W

Walter stands by the window watching Vicki walk towards her

Jeep. Something brushes his leg. He looks down to see the red

ball resting by his foot. He turns to see...

A glimpse of a young girl as she flashes by the door. She is

twelve years old and wears a white nightgown.

There is the sound of a car HONK, and Walter looks out the

window to see Vicki pull away.

He looks back toward the girl. There is nothing there.

INT. APARTMENT BEDROOM - MORNING

Walter rummages through a drawer. From underneath a pile of

clothes he pulls out a well-worn notebook. Walter leafs

through the pages. They are filled with writing but towards

the back the pages are blank.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Walter sits next to the window watching birds play at the

bird feeder. The notebook sits next to him on the windowsill.

There is the SOUND of children playing outside. Walter opens

the notebook, closes it, then opens it again. He looks up and

sees his reflection in the window. He starts to write.

INT. ROSEN'S OFFICE - DAY

Walter sits in the chair across from Rosen, looking at his

hands.

Walter is silent.

R

CONTINUED:

Pause. Walter looks at Rosen.

W

W

INT./EXT. APARTMENT - DAY

Continued from previous journal scene. Walter sits at his

windowsill writing in his journal. There is the sound of

children arriving to school outside. He looks up.

Walter's POV: The man with the white Volvo stands leaning

against his car watching a bus load of children arrive. He

pops M&Ms in his mouth.

The boys run and tackle each other. A group walks by Candy.

Walter finishes writing then looks outside.

INT. BUS - MORNING

Walter stands on a crowded bus, staring out the window at the

landscape rushing by. The bus pulls to a stop. Passengers get

off, then a group of girls come crashing onto the bus. They

overflow with energy and giggles.

Walter squeezes back so they can get by, but the bus lurches

into motion throwing one of the girls into Walter. He helps

her regain her balance, and the girl smiles at him.

She and her friends burst into laughter and move on past.

Walter watches her move down the aisle then quickly turns

away, scanning the faces surrounding him. No one looks at

him.

M

A

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Walter sweats heavily as he works. Vicki walks by and glances

at Walter as she passes. He doesn't notice her.

INT. WAREHOUSE CAFETERIA - DAY

Walter sits at a table eating. Vicki sits down across from

him. They eat silently. Walter doesn't look up. Vicki blows a

straw wrapper, hitting Walter in the face.

smothers a laugh. Walter cracks a smile.

Vicki and Walter.

INT. WAREHOUSE BATHROOM - DAY

Vicki exits a stall and goes to the sink to wash her hands.

She's smiling a little smile to herself.

Mary-Kay enters and starts primping in the mirror, fixing her

hair, putting on lipstick. She watches Vicki in the

reflection of the mirror.

CONTINUED:

Mary-Kay smiles, missing Vicki's ironic tone.

Mary-Kay's smile withers into a sneer.

She drops the lipstick into her bag and exits.

Vicki turns and finishes washing her hands, glancing at

herself in the mirror.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - LATER

Walter exits the building amidst a group of men. He walks

towards the bus stop. Vicki hollers to him from her Jeep.

Vicki waves him over.

INT. DINER - NIGHT

Vicki sits across from Walter in a booth. She takes a large

bite from a burger and washes it down with a milk shake.

Walter folds his napkin over his hand to make a little rabbit

hand puppet. The rabbit nods at Vicki.

She busts out laughing.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Walter and Vicki play pool. She knocks two balls into a

corner pocket. She is kicking his ass and visibly enjoying

it.

Walter hands her a quarter. Vicki kisses him on the cheek and

goes to line up the next shot.

I

INT. WALTER'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Walter and Vicki shower together. Walter rinses the suds from

Vicki's hair.

INT. WALTER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Vicki and Walter have just finished making love, Vicki on

top. She lies down on his chest. He strokes her hair, then

leans his head close and takes a deep breath.

INT. WALTER'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Vicki is woken up by Walter who makes the moaning sounds of

someone having a nightmare. She turns on her side and watches

him.

Walter wakes up with a start, then sees Vicki and cuddles

close. She runs her fingers through his hair and kisses his

forehead.

He closes his eyes again. Vicki looks at him closely.

Walter opens his eyes. Vicki continues to stroke his hair.

W

T

CONTINUED:

Walter pulls away.

Walter is silent.

Vicki looks at him.

Walter listens with no reaction.

CONTINUED: (2)

Vicki lights a cigarette and takes a long drag.

She looks at Walter. He says nothing, his expression blank.

Vicki laughs.

She shakes her head no but the laughter begins to die.

Vicki is quiet.

Walter gets out of bed and pulls on his pants. Vicki doesn't

move, the cigarette burns in her hand.

CONTINUED: (3)

Walter walks over to the window.

Vicki looks away.

V

Walter looks at her.

CONTINUED: (4)

Vicki is silent.

Advancing towards her.

Vicki doesn't move. After a long moment, Walter sits down

next to her.

E

CONTINUED: (5)

V

Vicki gets up and pulls on her clothes. She looks at Walter

who sits motionless on the bed. She leaves.

INT. VICKI'S CAR - DAY

Vicki drives fast. Window down. Cigarette gripped between her

fingers. Tears stream down her face. She comes to a stop

light and sits completely still, staring ahead without

blinking. Suddenly cars HONK. She snaps out of her stupor and

keeps on driving.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Walter sits on the couch writing in his journal. The TV is

on, a baseball game in progress, sound on low. Abruptly,

Walter throws the journal across the room. Then he lies back

and stares at the ceiling.

Suddenly, there is a loud THUMP outside of the apartment.

Walter picks up his journal and puts it in a drawer, then

walks quietly to the door and opens it a crack.

EXT. WALTER'S APARTMENT LANDING - NIGHT

A man struggles to bring a large object up the stairs.

Walter opens the door. Carlos turns in surprise.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Carlos enters the apartment and sets a table down in the

middle of the room. Walter looks at it.

Walter runs his hand along the surface.

Carlos sits in a chair.

CONTINUED:

Carlos notices the TV.

Walter stares at Carlos for a moment, then turns and goes to

the fridge and pulls out two beers. He hands Carlos a beer

and sits down on the couch. Carlos sits down next to him.

CONTINUED: (2)

Walter looks at Carlos.

Carlos backs off.

CONTINUED: (3)

Walter is silent and avoids Carlos's gaze. Carlos gives

Walter a look, then heads to the door.

Carlos nods.

He exits.

Walter walks over to the table and slowly runs his hand along

the surface.

INT. ROSEN'S OFFICE - DAY

Walter sits across from Rosen.

CONTINUED:

Walter looks at Rosen.

CONTINUED: (2)

R

CONTINUED: (3)

Walter gets up and slams out the door.

I

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Walter sits at his window with his journal, watching outside.

E

V

T

CONTINUED:

Walter's POV: Candy leans against his car, patiently waiting.

Something grabs Candy's attention, and Walter follows his

gaze.

Kids pour off a school bus. Candy waves to one ANGEL-FACED

BOY of ten or eleven.

Candy smiles and offers Angel-face a candy bar, which the boy

accepts.

The BELL rings. The other boy grabs Angel-face, and they run

off to school.

Walter rests his chin on his hands, watching.

INT. WAREHOUSE LOCKER ROOM - DAY

the room in front of his locker. She looks away.

W

Walter looks at her, closes his locker loudly, and walks

brusquely past.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Vicki stands near a pile of wood chips, taking a cigarette

break.

I

V

V

W

W

M

CONTINUED:

Walter approaches, pushing a cart full of wood chips. Vicki

looks at him as if to say something, but Walter continues

past, dumps the chips, and returns back inside.

INT. WAREHOUSE CAFETERIA - DAY

Walter sits at a table across the room from Vicki.

Walter wipes his mouth and gets up.

Walter exits. The smile fades from Mary-Kay's face.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DUSK

Walter stands alone at the bus stop.

engine, watching Walter.

He turns his back to the cold wind and her.

Vicki turns on the car and pulls out of the lot, roaring by

Walter without looking at him.

INT. VICKI'S APT. - MORNING

Vicki moves around her apartment, cigarette in one hand,

spray bottle in the other, squirting her plants.

V

CONTINUED:

She prunes dead leaves from one of them, then pauses looking

at the leaves in her hands.

She aggressively squirts the little plant with water, then

pauses, noticing her reflection in the window. She looks at

herself long and hard.

I

INT. WALTER'S APT. - MORNING

There is a knock on the door. Walter walks through the room

to the door, tucking in his shirt as he walks. He cracks the

door.

Vicki stands outside. Walter opens the door.

Walter looks at her.

INT. VICKI'S CAR - A LITTLE LATER

Walter and Vicki drive without saying anything. Slowly the

city-scape gives way to countryside. Walter looks over at

Vicki. She stares ahead.

EXT. RESERVOIR - DAY

Walter and Vicki get out of the car which is parked on the

edge of a reservoir surrounded by a thick pine forest. Vicki

works her way down to the water's edge. A Great Blue Heron

skims across the water's surface.

Walter watches her for a moment then follows. He sits down

near her.

a long pause.

CONTINUED:

Walter is quiet for a moment.

Vicki looks at him.

Vicki looks out at the water.

T

CONTINUED: (2)

Walter looks at her.

Walter is silent.

V

CONTINUED: (3)

Walter looks at Vicki for a moment then stands up.

Vicki doesn't move.

Vicki stands.

Walter is silent. Vicki shoves Walter hard.

Walter stumbles back a few steps but regains himself. He

stares at Vicki. His anger wells and he snaps.

W

T

I

W

CONTINUED: (4)

Walter stops, looks at Vicki.

Vicki stares back at him. After a long pause, she approaches

and tentatively pulls him into an embrace.

INT. OFFICE SPACE

Close up on computer screen displaying a web page for

registered felons. The heading reads -"Sex Offenders: the

more we know, the better!" "Stay informed!" Mock Police

sirens and lights frame the heading.

name, address, and crime details of man after man, in

alphabetical order, page after page.

The scrolling slows down, past "Mason," past all of the

Mc's..., and stops on "Miles, Walter." Convicted 1988 for

sexual abuse of minors, five counts, released... It is the

notification page that we saw created in the opening montage.

Walter's photo stares back at us.

clucks her tongue and shakes her head.

I

INT. WALTER'S BEDROOM - DAY

Vicki and Walter lie in bed, spooning, fully clothed. Vicki's

back to Walter, he holds her close.

CONTINUED:

Vicki looks at him blankly.

Long pause. Vicki lights a cigarette.

S

T

CONTINUED: (2)

V

INT. WALTER'S APT. - NIGHT

Walter sits at his table, a scrap of wood in his hand. He

whittles away at the wood. It is the rough outline of a heart

with wings.

comes again, even harder.

Walter goes to the door and opens it. The smiles fades from

his face.

in. He wears a well-tailored suit.

CONTINUED:

Walter closes the door behind him. Lucas walks around the

apartment. Walter watches him, uneasy.

Walter hesitates, then obeys.

Lucas walks over to the window.

CONTINUED: (2)

Lucas looks at Walter. He looks at the table.

Lucas runs his hand along the surface.

Lucas walks back to the window.

CONTINUED: (3)

W

Walter stands up.

Walter places his hands in his pockets. Lucas whirls around.

Walter does.

Walter sits.

Lucas leans over the table, nose to nose with Walter.

T

W

W

CONTINUED: (4)

Beat. Lucas taps Walter onL the forehead and smiles.

Walter is silent. Lucas taps him again.

Lucas rises, spits his gum in the sink, and leaves.

Walter leans   over squeezing his head tight between his hands.

The sound of   children fades in and Walter looks up. The girl

with the red   ball stands across from him in the doorway to

his bedroom.   She smiles and bounces the ball.

Walter folds over, cradling his head in his arms.

EXT. WALTER'S APT. - DAY

Walter stands alone at his bus stop. As he waits, he sees the

white Volvo turn a corner and pull up in front of the school.

quickly gets on and moves to the back, looking for Candy's

car. It is nowhere in sight, the place where it had parked,

empty. Walter sits down and stares ahead, numb.

EXT. MALL - DAY

It's a bright Saturday afternoon. A city bus turns into the

parking lot of a large mall. Passengers exit the bus and pour

into the mall's entrance. Walter is among them.

T

CONTINUED:

INT. MALL - DAY

Music blares from speakers. Packs of teenagers cruise the

mall. It is alive with chatter.

Walter is frequently jostled, as if he has forgotten how to

navigate crowds.

H

Noble and enters.

INT. BOOKSTORE - DAY

The bookstore is two floors and vast. Walter looks lost as he

moves through the crowds.

Walter rides an escalator. Three girls stand ahead of him.

The girl closest to him wears a short skirt which flutters

above Walter's face. He looks up.

away with her friends. Suddenly, the girl looks back. Their

eyes lock -- briefly. She W

Walter pauses, then follows.

The girl separates from her friends and goes down an aisle.

Walter follows her. She goes down another aisle. He follows.

CONTINUED:

In the middle of the aisle, the girl bends down, looking at

titles. From the end of the aisle, Walter pretends to be

looking for a book as he edges closer to her. He's now a few

feet away. The girl pulls out a book and opens it. Walter

gazes at the nape of her neck.

Walter turns, startled.

Behind the salesman, Walter sees a security guard exit the

rest room area.

He turns, the girl is gone. He bolts the other way, through

the aisles, down the elevator, through the mall as fast as

possible. The faces are a blur, sound becomes distorted. Then

we hear --

INT. ROSEN'S OFFICE

Walter sits in Rosen's office.

Walter is agitated. Rosen calmly writes.

CONTINUED:

Rosen stops and looks at Walter.

With effort Walter settles down.

There is a pause. Walter looks down, unconvinced. Rosen

checks the time.

CONTINUED: (2)

INT. BUS-STOP - DAY

Walter rides the bus, staring out the window. Sensing

something, he looks up.

A GIRL sits across from Walter. She is about twelve years

old. She wears glasses and a pair of binoculars hangs around

her neck. She casually nibbles on food she produces from her

backpack. She glances at Walter briefly then looks back out

the window.

Walter turns away.

INT. WALTER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Walter and Vicki sit at his table eating Chinese take-out.

Walter glances at Vicki who is devouring her food.

CONTINUED:

She looks up at him.

Walter gets up from the table and clears his plate to the

sink. Vicki looks at him.

He avoids her look.

He doesn't answer.

He stares at her.

H

CONTINUED: (2)

Walter goes to the fridge for a beer.

Vicki looks at him blankly.

V

Walter looks at the closed door, baffled.

W

EXT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - CONTINUED

Vicki jogs down the stairs and over to her Jeep. She opens

the door.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - CONTINUED

Walter pulls the carving he was working on from a drawer and

looks at it. It's finished.

Vicki reenters holding a plant and sets it loudly on the

table. Walter looks at her then at the plant.

She gets herself a beer from the fridge.

Walter seems at a loss. Vicki takes a swig from her beer.

Walter looks unconvinced.

T

CONTINUED:

She kisses him then gives him a teasing look.

Vicki walks towards the bedroom.

Vicki turns. He tosses her the carving.

Vicki catches it and looks at it for a long moment, then at

Walter.

She smiles.

INT. WAREHOUSE LOCKER ROOM - DAY

There is the usual morning chaos in the locker room. Walter

opens his locker but stops abruptly.

girl, joyfully swinging on a swing. Scrawled over the image

in red marker is a circle with line across it and the words

"WE'RE WATCHING YOU" written below.

W

Walter quickly tears down the picture and looks around. The

men are all oblivious.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Walter works at the saw, watching closely every person that

walks by him. No one pays him any mind.

Bob, the boss, walks into the space and stops to have a few

words with a worker who points in Walter's direction. Bob

heads towards Walter.

Walter sees him coming and pauses in his work. Bob walks

right by to talk to another man working behind Walter.

Walter watches for a moment then continues working.

INT. WAREHOUSE - LATER

Walter exits the mens room and stops to drink from the water

fountain. Mary-Kay is walking down the hall and pauses.

She leans up against the wall.

She gives Walter a suggestive look.

W

T

W

CONTINUED:

A couple of men walk down the hall interrupting them.

Mary-Kay watches Walter walk away.

INT. BUS - DUSK

Walter rides the bus, staring out the window. The bus is

crowded.

Iime passes, fewer passengers, dusk has turned to night.

INT. ROSEN'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Walter and Rosen sit in their usual places.

Walter silently stares at his hands. Rosen looks at him

closely.

Walter looks at him.

CONTINUED:

Rosen looks at Walter.

Walter laughs.

CONTINUED: (2)

Rosen gets up so he's positioned directly in front of Walter.

After a moment, Walter's expression shifts.

Rosen is excited by this "breakthrough."

CONTINUED: (3)

Rosen walks around Walter and paces behind him.

CONTINUED: (4)

Walter opens his eyes.

He sees Rosen behind him.

Rosen stumbles back to his chair.

CONTINUED: (5)

Walter looks away, quelling his anger.

Rosen writes a few notes.

CONTINUED: (6)

Walter is silent.

Walter presses his face into his hands. Rosen watches him

silently. When Walter lifts his face...

I

INT. BAR - NIGHT

... Carlos sits before him. They are in a booth, the table

covered with drinks and remnants of bar food. The bar bustles

in the background.

CONTINUED:

Walter is quiet.

Walter looks at Carlos.

Carlos avoids Walter's gaze.

C

CONTINUED: (2)

The waitress interrupts to clear the table, leaning over to

grab the empty plates. Carlos checks her out.

C

W

CONTINUED: (3)

Walter doesn't look at Carlos.

Carlos looks at Walter.

C

CONTINUED: (4)

A look of horror/disgust passes over Carlos's face, and he

lurches forward grabbing Walter by the shirt collar. Drinks

spill.

Carlos lets go of Walter roughly and gets up and leaves.

Walter looks around embarrassed -- onlookers slowly turn

away. Walter picks up a napkin and starts to blot the table

dry.

INT. WALTER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Vicki stands before Walter who sits on the edge of the bed.

Both are naked. She kisses him. He turns her around and pulls

her to his lap.

Walter's hands are on her hips. He moves her body slowly --

very slowly -- around his lap.

Vicki goes with it, enjoying herself, then tries to turn

around. Walter holds her still.

T

E

I

CONTINUED:

He leans his face into her hair. He takes deep audible

breaths. Vicki tries to turn again, but he won't let her. She

is aroused but confused.

She tries to reach back. Walter catches her hand and holds it

to her side.

He holds her tight.

INT. WALTER'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Walter lies in bed, eyes open. There is the SOUND of children

playing outside. He carefully sits up in bed revealing Vicki

asleep beside him.

IXT. SCHOOLYARD - MORNING

kids parade down the sidewalk heading for school. The camera

pans to reveal Candy watching them.

frame.

T

CONTINUED:

Che boy tears open the bag.

Candy points across the street to his white Volvo.

Candy follows the boy. Freeze frame.

Candy struts around the boy rapping, clapping, snapping his

fingers.

Candy points to his car again, then dances, seen in slow-

motion, toward it.

Candy opens the car door.

V

CONTINUED: (2)

The boy gets in the car. Instant replay. The boy gets in the

car. ZOOM IN. The car door closes.

INT. WALTER'S APT. - DAY

Walter sits staring out the window. The sound of children

playing.

window. She walks up behind him and puts her hands on his

shoulders.

Walter turns around, startled, brushing her off.

Vicki looks at Walter.

Vicki looks at him.

E

E

W

I

CONTINUED:

He walks back into the bedroom.

A SCHOOL BELL rings and Vicki looks out the window. She sees

the children running into school. She looks back in the

direction Walter left.

INT. VICKI'S CAR - DAY

Vicki and Walter ride in the car. Vicki glances at Walter. He

stares ahead, then leans his head back and closes his eyes...

I

INT. BUS - DAY

... Walter rides, head back, eyes closed. The bus comes to a

stop and a couple of passengers get on. Walter opens his

eyes.

The girl with binoculars comes to sit in the seat ahead of

Walter.

Walter stares at the girl. The bus pulls up to another stop --

it is Walter's. The doors to the bus open. Walter looks at

the doors, he does not move. The doors close. He looks back

at the girl. The bus drives on.

EXT. BUS-STOP - DAY

The bus comes to a stop. The girl gets off amongst a couple

of passengers. Walter follows.

EXT. PARK - DAY

Walter walks down a path that opens onto a secluded little

field surrounded by trees.

CONTINUED:

The girl stands in the middle of the field looking at the sky

through her binoculars. She turns slowly, scanning the trees.

She spots Walter and lowers the binoculars.

Walter is silent. He looks up at the trees.

She looks through her binoculars. Walter stares at her.

She points her binoculars up. Walter walks towards her.

She hands him her binoculars. He looks through them.

CONTINUED: (2)

He hands her back the binoculars.

CONTINUED: (3)

She shakes her head.

She closes her eyes and pipes a little tune.

She opens her eyes, shyly.

CONTINUED: (4)

The girl runs off down the path.

Walter watches after her. He stands alone in the field.

INT. BUS - DAY

Walter rides the bus. Through many different neighborhoods,

day passes into night. He stares beyond his reflection. Over

the following voice-over we cut between Walter's apartment

and Walter riding the bus.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Walter sits at his window, writing in his journal, fast.

S

W

I

CONTINUED:

I

INT. BUS - NIGHT

The bus drives by a number of billboards, children's Gap

ads...

INT. WALTER'S APT. - NIGHT

Walter pauses in the writing.

There's a loud KNOCK at the door. Walter looks over in

surprise. The KNOCK comes again. Walter quickly closes his

journal and puts it in a drawer. The KNOCK comes again.

Walter goes to the door and opens it partially.

Walter opens the door. Lucas enters. Walter slowly closes the

door behind him.

Lucas signals a chair.

Walter slowly sits. Lucas walks around the room. He pauses.

CONTINUED:

Lucas points to the plant on the windowsill.

Lucas throws him a look.

W

CONTINUED: (2)

Lucas looks at the bus map on the wall.

Lucas spits his gum into the garbage can and sits down across

from Walter.

Walter is silent.

CONTINUED: (3)

Walter shakes his head.

Lucas takes out a fresh piece of gum and pops it in his

mouth. Then he rises.

CONTINUED: (4)

Lucas stares coldly at Walter, his face red. He looks

dangerous.

He slaps Walter on the back of the head...

... and exits.

Walter rushes to the blinds, drawing them down, then

scrambles to get his journal from the drawer. He drops to his

knees, tearing the pages from his journal, tearing them to

bits.

The SOUND of children fades in, and Walter looks up.

In the bedroom doorway is the girl in her white nightgown,

sitting on the red ball, rocking back and forth, her chin in

her hands.

W

P

CONTINUED: (5)

Walter squeezes his eyes shut and clamps his hands over his

ears. The sound abruptly stops.

INT. BUS - MORNING

Walter rides the bus. He is unshaven and looks exhausted. He

is jostled by the crowds but seems oblivious.

INT. WAREHOUSE - MORNING

As Walter walks into the warehouse, men step out of the way

and give him leering looks. Walter walks into --

I

INT. WAREHOUSE LOCKER ROOM - DAY

-- the locker room. A hush suddenly falls over the room.

Walter looks around. No one will meet his eyes. He opens his

locker and a piece of paper slides out.

It is a Xerox of the police notification information of

Walter printed from the Internet.

Walter stares at the paper. Suddenly something slams next to

his head. A piece of metal clangs to the floor. Walter turns

around.

Vicki stands in front of her locker holding the flyer. She

looks scared. She glances at the men then walks over to

Walter.

Walter doesn't move.

Vicki looks defiantly at the men.

W

T

CONTINUED:

Bob hurries in, followed by a worker.

He's handed a flyer. He looks it over and turns red. He looks

at Walter then the men.

Mary-Kay stands quietly in the back of the room, a look of

satisfaction on her face. Vicki looks at her. Mary-Kay turns

and sees Vicki's glare. She quickly looks away.

No one answers. Bob looks at the men for a long moment then

at Walter.

Bob crumples the paper in his hand.

Bob turns and walks away.

Mary-Kay.

Walter walks off without saying anything, his expression

blank.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

W

Walter works at his station. He pauses, staring at the

cutting blade whirling before him. He looks up around him.

After a long moment, he turns the machine off and walks away.

INT. WAREHOUSE - LATER

Vicki looks up from where she is working and notices Walter's

place is empty. She looks around.

INT. WAREHOUSE OFFICE - DAY

Vicki enters. Mary-Kay sits at her desk, typing.

Vicki picks up Mary-Kay's mug and pours coffee on her lap.

Mary-Kay shrieks and stands up.

Vicki tears through Mary-Kay's drawers throwing contents to

the floor.

Bob walks in.

V

Vicki throws the papers at Bob and storms out.

Bob looks at Mary-Kay.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Vicki quickly crosses the parking lot to her Jeep, putting

her coat on as she goes.

INT. BUS - DAY

Walter rides the bus, watching the landscape go by, his

expression stony.

EXT. WALTER'S APT. - DAY

Vicki pulls her Jeep into the parking lot and screeches to a

stop.

She races up the stairs and knocks on Walter's door. No

answer. She knocks again. No answer.

She disappears back down the stairs.

INT. WALTER'S APT. - DAY

The door opens. Vicki enters and turns to the superintendent

standing in the doorway.

The super shrugs and heads back down the stairs. Vicki closes

the door and turns around.

The place is a mess, the blinds drawn. She turns on the

lights. There is no sign of Walter.

She sees the journal scattered on the floor and leafs through

the pieces. The image of the girl with red marker is stuck

inside.                   V

V

A

S

CONTINUED:

She picks up a couple pieces of paper and scans them, then

she puts the pieces together. Walter's words are scrawled

across the paper. Her hands start to shake.

INT. BUS - DAY

The bus pulls to a stop. Walter gets off.

EXT. PARK - DAY

Walter walks down park path. A jogger runs by, but otherwise

it is quiet.

INT. WALTER'S APT. - DAY

Vicki frantically gathers pieces of the journal and stuffs

them in a plastic bag. Her face is flushed.

staring at the garbage can. She opens the can, grabs the bag,

quickly looks around the apartment. There is the sound of the

school bell outside. She rushes to the window and raises the

blinds. Children pour out of the school. She quickly leaves.

EXT. PARK - DAY

Walter sits on a park bench in the same little field where he

had encountered the girl before. He is alone. He sits still.

He looks up at the trees.

INT. VICKI'S CAR - DAY

Vicki drives, the bag on the passenger seat. She comes to a

stop light and looks in the rear view mirror.

The light turns green. Vicki drives slowly. The cop changes

lanes and passes her. She lets out her breath.

EXT. STREETS MONTAGE - SAME TIME

Vicki slowly drives by a series of parks, schools, malls -

searching.

CONTINUED:

Children abound, playing, running free, getting off of school

buses, running to meet their parents. There is no sign of

Walter.

EXT. PARK - DAY

The girl walks into the clearing, wearing her binoculars

around her neck. She stops when she sees Walter sitting on

the bench.

Walter continues staring at the trees. She walks over to him.

The girl sits on the bench and pulls a small book from her

backpack. She starts writing in it.

Walter watches her.          W

She shows it to him.

The girl writes in her book. Walter watches.

She continues writing ignoring his question.

CONTINUED:

She looks at Walter.

The girl sits silently.

She picks up her binoculars and peers through them.

She continues looking, but she smiles.

Walter laughs.

CONTINUED: (2)

She looks at Walter.

Walter hesitates then shrugs.

CONTINUED: (3)

Robin looks at him.

Walter looks at her.

CONTINUED: (4)

Robin shivers.

She shakes her head. Walter slides closer and rubs her arms

with his hands.

Robin is silent.

He stands up.

Robin doesn't move.

CONTINUED: (5)

She looks at him.

Her answer has a strange effect on Walter, as if for a moment

he has lost his balance. Carefully, he sits down and stares

at his hands.             W

She is quiet.

Still silent.

Robin looks through her binoculars.

She scans the trees.

Robin drops her head and quietly sobs. Walter looks at her

but makes no effort to comfort her.

She shakes her head.

CONTINUED: (6)

She is quiet.

She nods.

Robin in silent.

Tears come to Robin's eyes again.

CONTINUED: (7)

She looks at him. Walter struggles to find the words.

There is a long moment of silence.

Walter stares at her.

CONTINUED: (8)

Walter slides away from her.

Walter is silent.

Robin gets up, goes over to Walter, and hugs him. Walter

starts to put his arms around her but refrains.

She runs off. Walter looks out, numb.

EXT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Walter approaches his building. The white Volvo sits parked

across the street in front of the school. Walter walks a

couple of more steps when the door to the Volvo opens. Walter

freezes.

Candy gets out of the car. As he turns, Walter no longer sees

Candy but himself -- many years younger.

CONTINUED:

Walter watches, fear and emotion coursing through his face.

Young Walter leans back in and pulls the front seat forward,

and a young girl emerges.

Flash to the angel-faced boy getting out of the car. Candy

pats him on the head.

Walter sees young Walter pat the girl on the head. She runs

off down the street.

Walter races towards Candy.

Candy tucks his shirt in, puts the seat back, and is about to

get in the car when Walter calls out --

Candy whirls around. Walter smashes him in the face. Candy

reels backwards hitting the car. Walter attacks Candy full

force. As he punches flashes of young Walter appear, then

Candy, then young Walter again.

He pounds and pounds on Candy then finally pulls away.

Candy sputters on the ground.

Walter, breathing hard, stares at Candy. He looks at the

blood on his hands, which shake uncontrollably. He slowly

stands up and starts to back away.

Candy rolls over and groans as he tries to raise himself.

Walter turns, tucks his head down, and quickly walks away.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Walter stands in the living room. He looks down at the floor

where the journal was and sees that nothing is there. He goes

to his windows and lowers the blinds.

EXT. VICKI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Through the window we see Vicki sitting on her couch, biting

her nail, staring off into space. The phone sits next to her.

D

A

I

INT. WALTER'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Walter stands in the shower. He turns the water on and lets

it run over him. Slowly, he begins to sob.

INT. WALTER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Walter stands at the bureau, cleaned up and dressed in fresh

clothes. He looks up and stares at himself in the mirror. The

sound of TRAFFIC fades in.

EXT. CITY STREETS - NIGHT

Walter walks down a city street with boarded up store fronts.

The sidewalks are wet from a steady drizzle. Cars pass by on

the wet pavement.

As Walter walks, we intercut with a SERIES OF FLASHBACKS:

A) EXT. SCHOOL - Walter looks at the blood on his hands then

at Candy moaning on the ground.

B) EXT. PARK - Robin stands in the middle of the field,

binoculars held to her eyes, scanning the trees.

C

us straight in the eye.

EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

Walter stands at an intersection. The lights play across his

face.

FLASHBACK

car. His hands are cuffed behind him, and he is roughly

frisked. He tries to look back over his shoulder but his face

is held down.

E) EXT. PARK - Robin dances in circles in the fields, arms

stretched out as if she is ready to fly.

EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

A car races by, and Walter walks along a busy street fast.

The rain falls harder now.

FLASHBACK

cop car. The cops get in the front seat. Walter looks out the

window at his house as the car pulls away.

Standing on the front steps, his wife turns away, carrying

his daughter inside. A cop closes the door behind them.

G) EXT. SCHOOL - Walter pounds and pounds on Candy.

EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

Walter crosses an old brick bridge that spans a river.

FLASHBACK

into the girl with the red ball and white nightgown. The girl

spins and spins, her dress fluttering in the wind. Slowly the

girl fades away so the field is empty, except for a number of

small birds fluttering around the ground.

EXT. VICKI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Walter stands outside Vicki's door. After a moment he knocks.

The door opens to show Vicki. She stares at Walter.

EXT./INT. VICKI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Through the window we see Vicki sit down on the couch, and

Walter sit on the coffee table, facing her. He starts to talk

and takes her hand. She pulls it away. He continues to talk

and takes her hand again, not letting her pull away.

Trucks pass by over the wet pavement, rattling the windows.

EXT. SCHOOLYARD - DAY

The school is quiet, the playground empty. Swings sway

listlessly in the breeze.

EXT. WALTER'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

The old Chevy pulls into the parking lot.

INT. WALTER'S APARTMENT - DAY

Walter brings his duffel bag into his living room and sets it

down next to a clothes hamper. Boxes are scattered about the

space. There's a KNOCK on the door.

The door opens and Lucas enters.

Walter pauses.                L

Walter automatically sits down in the chair.

Lucas walks over to the window.

CONTINUED:

Lucas gives him a look.

Walter starts folding his clothes and placing them in the

duffle bag.

Walter is silent. Lucas watches him closely.

CONTINUED: (2)

Lucas walks around. Walter folds a shirt.

Lucas throws him a look.

Lucas raises his brows then takes out a piece of gum.

CONTINUED: (3)

Lucas pops the gum in his mouth and heads towards the door.

Walter pauses in his folding.

Lucas turns.

Walter is silent.

Lucas watches Walter who impassively unrolls and rolls the

same pair of socks.

CONTINUED: (4)

Lucas looks at Walter for a moment.

He exits.

Walter realizes he unrolled the socks. He tosses them in the

duffel bag.

INT. VICKI'S CAR - LATE AFTERNOON

Vicki drives. Walter stares out the passenger window. The sun

is low on the horizon. Walter wears a pressed button-down

shirt. He is clean-shaven and his hair neatly combed. His

hand fidgets in his lap.

Vicki reaches for his hand, then something catches her eye.

Walter follows her gaze.

huge body, a dancing cloud against the sky.

CONTINUED:

Vicki looks at him and smiles. There is a long beat as they

drive.

I/E. VICKI'S CAR, RESERVOIR - DAY

Vicki sits in her car smoking. She stubs out her cigarette.

The ashtray is full. She looks out the window.

V

the water. The woman looks a few years younger than Walter.

There is space between them. Walter faces her, but she looks

out at the water. After a long moment, he reaches to touch

her arm.

The woman pulls away and yells something at him. Walter's

head drops.

country music, blocking out all sound. She looks back out the

window.

The woman yells angrily then falls quiet -- staring at

Walter. After a long moment, she turns and walks back up the

hill to her car where Carlos waits, leaning against the car.

Annette gets in the car, slamming the door. Carlos pauses,

looking at Walter, then gets in the car and turns on the

engine to leave.

Walter stays standing near the water.

INT. ROSEN'S OFFICE

Walter sits in his usual seat across from Rosen.

Rosen is silent.

CONTINUED:

Walter nods.

Walter looks at Rosen who nods. There is a moment of silence

between them.

THE END

