ANGEL EYES

Seventh Draft/Polish

FOR EDUCATIONAL

FADE IN:

EXT. CITY STREETS (LOS ANGELES) - NIGHT

CREDIT SEQUENCE.

As OPENING CREDITS play, we study the city's nighttime

pulse, ribbons of headlights moving and cross-connecting

like blood through the veins of a body --

impressionistic, even beautiful, but what we're hearing

is soulful trumpet-based MUSIC, mellow and haunting, the

modern classic -- JAZZ sound of a Wynton Marsalis,

putting a voice to our story. As CREDITS END, we...

POV - EXT. FREEWAY - NIGHT

Now the MUSIC is GONE, SOUNDS are MUFFLED and vision

blurred. We get the impression of urgent movement. We

hear BREATHING. There are VOICES, SHOUTS, even SCREAMS,

but MUFFLED, far away. Only the breathing is distinct.

We come to realize it is our breathing, and we are inside

someone, looking out. The man whose POV this is is on

the edge of consciousness and not far from death. He

lies on the pavement of a freeway at the site of an

accident only minutes after impact.

His VISION goes IN and OUT of clarity. People are

swarming around him and rushing by toward the carnage of

wrecked vehicles. A SIREN BLOOMS in the distance and

approaches haltingly. The man slips away, comes back

toward consciousness, slips again.

The crowd around the downed man parts to allow passage to

a police officer. It is a woman, Officer SHARON POGUE,

LAPD. She kneels at the man's side, taking charge,

speaking, but we hear only SLIVERS of SOUND. He sees her

face clearly now, close above him.

Sharon is   a dedicated professional and more. We see down

into her   to a place of real caring. She stares into our

eyes and   connects. We begin to hear her now -- and there

are more   SIRENS converging in b.g.

We are slipping away again. Sharon holds us with her

eyes, and she grips our hand.

CONTINUED:

She holds on tight.     We see that our hand, held in her

own, is bloody.

We watch our hand gripping hers, and as we hold on, the

sights and sounds around us grow more clear.

But our eyes unlock from Sharon's and DRIFT TO a patch of

night sky. Her voice fades awawy. Our POV begins TO

LIFT, MOVING TOWARD that sky, as the blue-black night

begins to turn white. We GO INTO that white light and...

EXT. LOS ANGELES CITYSCAPE - DAY

We PICK OUT a police car from the traffic and FOLLOW.

The beat being patrolled is a mixed neighborhood with

some very rough edges.

INT. POLICE CAR - DAY

Officer Sharon Pogue is driving the car. It is two years

since we saw her at the accident site. Her partner,

ROBBY LEWIS, sips coffee and keeps one eye on the CAD

monitor which lists all area police calls. She slows

behind a car that is crawling along, an old 60s car,

driven by a young man and woman who sit very close on the

bench seat. The car's ENGINE is MISSING and smoking.

CONTINUED:

Robby nearly spits his coffee, laughing at what Sharon

has said and trying not to choke. Sharon smiles, shaking

her head.

As Robby smiles, Sharon looks ahead at the young couple

who each have an arm around the other. She is stroking

his neck. He is making gentle circles in her hair.

Sharon watches this, and for a moment her eyes reveal a

depth that may be loneliness, but she quickly pushes her

thoughts away and hits the HORN, startling Robby and

startling the people ahead who now disengage and drive

on.

But Robby's eyes have caught something on the monitor.

As Robby secures that coffee cup, Sharon hits the SIREN

and speeds around the car in front of them.

EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

At the same time, a few blocks away, an OLD, FRAIL MAN is

carrying two plastic grocery bags that are too heavy for

him.

Walking behind this man is a younger man named CATCH

LAMBERT, an attractive man with some scarring on his

face. His eyes, deep down, are haunted by something, but

there is energy in his step. He is dressed in a relaxed

and stylish manner, not expensive. He begins to pick up

his pace to catch up to the old man.

CONTINUED:

People glance at Catch, nad he glances back in an open

and unflinching way, ready for anything, a smile, a nod,

or -- because these are some of L.A.'s mean streets -- a

threatening or taunting look. These he also meets

openly, without a trace of fear. The man has been

through some kind of fire, and it has left him different

from us. Outside the usual boundaries.

Catch walks beside the Old Man, glancing at him.

Finally, the man glances back, wondering and suspicious,

but Catch has a slight, disarming smile, open and honest.

The Old Man trudges on, proud and suspicious, too.

The Old Man glances at him, still not convinced, but he

soon has to stop and rest. Catch stops, too. The old

man looks at him, a bit embarrassed.

Catch nods, puts out his hand. The Old Man hesitates,

then decides and lifts a bag, and Catch takes it.

Catch isn't kidding. He has that honesty. The Old Man

nods and starts trudging again. As they walk on

together, Catch reaches for that second bag. The man

relents and lets him take it. They continue on, Catch

carrying the bags and every now and then lifting them a

bit for his upper body work.

EXT. VIDEO GAME ROOM - DAY

This is the call Sharon and Robby have sped to. It is a

chaotic scene of cops breaking up a fight between eight

boys, 16-20. A big KID, 18 or so, is being pulled off

another by Sharon and Robby. The Kid is wild and

resisting and Sharon shows her toughness and

professionalism and some anger, too, as she slams him

into a fence -- and Robby holds him while she cuffs the

young man -- who is very mouthy, playing to his friends.

Sharon and Robby are both very good at their jobs, taking

this Kid to their car while other cops contain the rest.

A crowd watches -- mostly teens.

Some of his bystanders friends howl at that.

He resists a bit, but they're getting him into the car.

INT. POLICE CAR - DAY (FEW MINUTES LATER)

Sharon's on the radio to dispatch as Robby drives and the

Kid keeps mouthing off.

Sharon is stone-faced through this.

CONTINUED:

INT. JAIL BOOKING AREA - DAY

As Robby and Sharon bring their suspect to the booking

counter, each holding one of his cuffed arms. The Kid is

looking at Sharon's hand on his arm.

They get him to the counter.

As they remove the cuffs, the Kid makes a sudden move

toward Sharon, reaching between her legs -- but she was

not only ready for this, but hoping for it -- and the

stoniness of her face cracks into fierce anger as she

moves quickly and grabs the Kid by the hair, bringing his

face into her upraised knee. He cries out and goes down

on his knees, hurting and bleeding. The jailer rushes

over to help, but Robby grabs the Kid's wrists.

Robby glances at Sharon -- a dark glance.

EXT. POLICE JAIL PARKING LOT - DAY (LATER)

as Robby and Sharon walk to their car. They are

interrupted by one of their lieutenants, SANDERMAN,

walking their way and stopping to stare at Sharon. She

meets his look.

She is straightforward, not rebellious.

CONTINUED:

He walks away, and Sharon and Robby walk on to their

car -- she is dark; he is glancing at her.

They enter the car, Sharon behind the wheel.

She STARTS the CAR and starts to back out, and he reaches

over and turns OFF the IGNITION. She stares hotly at

him -- but then, slowly, she softens, takes a deep

breath.

CONTINUED:

She STARTS the CAR again, more calm, starts to drive out

of the lot.

They both smile wryly, driving on.

INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

She is on the floor using an exercise rig, sliding into

crunches, pushing herself, sweating, alone. We BEGIN

DRIFTING TO the rain-spattered window as night sounds

filter in, HORNS, SOMEONE SHOUTING, a CAR MOVING BY with

THUNDEROUS BASS MUSIC that pulses the very air and

RATTLES the LOOSE GLASS of her window.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS - NIGHT

Catch Lambert is walking the wet streets, head down in

the rain. Far away we hear that car with a BASS-BLASTING

RADIO.

CONTINUED:

In the glow of a street lamp, Catch sees a bright-colored

object in the gutter. He picks it up out of the gurgling

rain water. It is a small toy, a discarded superhero.

He puts it in his pocket, walks on.

Now the car, the prowling, MUSIC-BLASTING, BASS-

THUNDERING CAR turns a corner and begins rollling along

slowly -- beside Catch. He glances over, walking on.

There are four tough-looking MEN in the car, looking for

trouble. The MUSIC is DEAFENING. Catch glances again,

walks on. Their eyes follow him like gun barrels. He

stops and walks out on the street, moving toward the car,

shouting over the music.

The men, incredulous, stop the car and snap OFF the MUSIC

in order to make sure they're hearing right. They stare

death at Catch.

They can hardly believe this.

Catch meets the man's look with his own unflinching,

haunted eyes.

Catch's look is not a macho challenge. It's something

else -- beyond that, a man somehow without limits. One

of the riders in the backseat taps the Driver's shoulder.

The Driver, never breaking his death stare, snaps on the

DEAFENING MUSIC and then slowly rolls on, still glaring

at Catch. Catch stands in the rain, watching them go.

INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT CORRIDOR - SAME NIGHT

Catch is arriving home, soaking wet. He lives in a

slightly-seedy three-story. As he walks down the

corridor toward his apaprtment, he passes a neighbor's

door and notices a set of keys dangling from the lock.

He pauses -- and then knocks softly on the door.

Someone looks through the peephole and then opens the

door -- a young single mother, friendly but with a little

caution, too. She recognizes Catch. Behind her is a

little boy, (five). The woman's name is CANDACE. Her

son is TOMMY.

He gestures, and she sees the keys and retrieves them,

more friendly now.

While she is talking, Catch is staring deeply at the boy,

who is shy. Catch almost speaks to the boy, wants to,

goes halfway to a smile -- but the sight of the kid stirs

that layer of darkness in Catch. He nods a good-bye to

the mother and is about to go. She thinks about this, as

he is turning, and pushes through her remaining caution

to say...

He smiles and seems to want to stay, but he is already

retreating. His contact goes only so far -- and no

further.

And with one more glance at the boy, he walks to his

apartment, unlocks it and steps in.

INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

He walks into a bare living room -- no chairs, tables,

lamps, nothing on the walls. He walks into a spotless,

never-used kitchen and flips on the light, opens a

drawer.

In the drawer is a collection of kids' toys, some found,

some purchased, mostly plastic figures. The action of

opening the door has started some battery-operated

animals moving around in there. Now from his pocket he

takes the plastic superhero he just found and drops it in

and closes the drawer.

He walks back into the living room. He sits on the

floor, leans back against the wall, his clothes still

soaked from the rain. He stares at his thoughts, looking

a bit numb -- and lost.

EXT./INT. DRY CLEANERS SHOP - DAY

Sharon is just leaving with a clean uniform on a hanger

in a plastic bag. It's a neighborhood place where

alterations are done. As she is leaving, an older woman

is just entering. This is MRS. VANDER, beaming at

Sharon, a real talker.

She is pulling a new blue dress out of a shopping bag.

CONTINUED:

Sharon forces a smile -- but is mystified. Mrs. Vander

is walking to the counter and pausing to say...

Mrs. Vander realizes what's going on and stammers on,

sympathetic and embarrassed.

They're both covering like mad, both realizing Sharon's

been left out.

Sharon leaves -- Mrs. Vander staring after her, feeling

bad. As Sharon walks away, we see her forced smile die,

replaced by an old pain and darkness.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

Robby and Sharon's unit pulls up at a house remodel with

a sign marked "POGUE CONSTRUCTION." Sharon exits the car

and walks onto the site, moves toward a man who is both

carpenter and supervisor on the job. This is her

brother, LARRY POGUE, 29. They are not comfortable with

each other -- an old wound. He gives her a wary nod.

She's trying a little harder, being a bit more friendly.

We can sense the strain.

CONTINUED:

She touches his shoulder as she says this, a friendly

gesture, a reaching out. He doesn't respond, only

shrugs.

She has broken through a bit and they both smile a brief,

wry smile.

She looks about.

But Larry's look stays on her, wondering what's on her

mind.

He turns back to his work now as they speak,

uncomfortable.

CONTINUED:

She stares, then...

Pissed, he throws his hammer down on the plywood, turns

to her.

CONTINUED:

She walks away.     He frowns, picks up his hammer, goes

back to work.

ON STREET

As Sharon walks towards the car, she sees a van

approaching and she holds up a hand to Robby and calls

out...

And she walks toward the oncoming van, which is parking

now.

EXT. VAN - DAY

The van is driven by KATHY, Sharon's brother's wife.

Beside her in a car seat is LARRY, JR., four years old.

Sharon comes to the rolled down window on the driver's

side. She has a warm smile for Kathy and the child.

Kathy smiles, too.

She has a special affection for the boy -- who is

subdued, but he smiles a small one for his aunt. She

takes one of his hands and they shake in mock formality.

CONTINUED:

She shakes her fingers, and he smiles a bit more. Sharon

reaches in and rubs his head in a mock knuckling move.

He laughs. She smooths his hair, affectionately.

Sharon is staring at Kathy's badly bruised ear.

Sharon pulls her eyes off the bruise to meet Kathy's look

-- and connect.

Sharon smiles a bit, appreciating the support.       She pats

Kathy's arm.

The boy offers his little hand to shake again.

They smile and drive on and Sharon walks toward her car

and Robby.

EXT. CITY PARK - DAY (NEXT DAY)

We WATCH moms and kids and a basketball game in the park

and PICK UP Catch walking by. Two pre-teens are playing

bounce and catch with a rubber ball against a (tennis

practice) wall, and one of them misses, and Catch makes a

lunge and snags the ball. Instead of throwing it to one

of the boys, he fires it at the wall.

CONTINUED:

One of the boys catches it, bounces it off the wall

toward Catch. Catch grabs it, and now he's part of this

rapid-fire game -- and he's athletic and funny, too,

playing hard and mugging and making them smile until... a

POLICE CAR comes ROARING down the boulevard, slowing a

bit to CHIRP its SIREN a few times -- clearing traffic.

Catch glances up and sees...

CATCH'S POV

Sharon is in the car beside Robby.

ON CATCH

Stunned by the sight of her -- and he doesn't know why.

He can't move, can't breathe, eyes fixed on her. The

POLICE CAR pulls around a truck and ROARS on -- and

that's when he is struck by a memory, a little like

lightning. It comes as a quick --

FLASHBACK - EXT. FREEWAY - ACCIDENT SITE    - CATCH'S POV

-- The man near death. Sharon is bending close to him,

this all just a sliver of an image, and it jolts him.

BACK TO SCENE (PRESENT)

The police car is now converging with other squads just

half a block away. Catch throws the ball back to the

boys and runs toward the police incident. The boys watch

him go, wondering.

EXT. CLOSED STORE - DAY

A police   car is parked askew near this closed store -- as

now Robby   and Sharon's UNIT ROARS to a STOP beside it.

Two cops   are calling and motioning to them, one holds a

shotgun.    This is RAY JULIETTE.

And they are moving.

EXT. BACK OF CLOSED STORE - DAY

Robby and Sharon are hurrying around to the back as we

hear more POLICE UNITS CONVERGING in front.

ANGLE - STREET

As Catch arrives on the scene and sees Sharon and Robby

moving around the building to the back. He is still

amazed at the sight of her. He decides to follow her,

keeping her in sight, driven.

ON SHARON, ROBBY

They are scouting through crates and weeds as a young man

is flushed from cover at the back of the store and runs

from them.

The man runs on, and Sharon chases with Robby close

behind her. Sharon speaks to her shoulder radio mike as

she runs.

The man has jumped a fence.   Sharon follows.

She goes over the fence, then Robby.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

The man runs and Sharon chases. Robby, not far behind

glances off to the side, seeing Catch, still following.

CONTINUED:

But Sharon is now closing on the fleeing man who turns

suddenly, pointing a handgun!

And Sharon, wide-eyed, is already pulling her weapon, but

not in time. The man is aiming at her and about to fire

when he is tackled by Catch.

Catch and the man go sprawling, and the gun flies out of

the man's hand, and Sharon is on him in an instant,

pointing her gun at him...

Catch scrambles to his feet. Robby joins Sharon and puts

his knee in the man's back and cuffs him, then glances at

Catch. So does Sharon. But Catch starts to hurry off.

Two other cops (Ray Juliette and SANCHEZ) rush toward the

suspect on the ground.

Sharon stares across the lot to where Catch has halted.

More cops are converging. Ray Juliette and Sanchez move

toward Catch, while a sergeant and others surround Sharon

and the suspect. In between the crowd of cops, Catch and

Sharon glance at each other, during...

ON CATCH

as the cops reach him.

CONTINUED:

ON SHARON

She is shaken, speaks softly.

She glances toward Catch. (She doesn't recognize him

from the accident.) Their eyes meet briefly, but then

their attention is pulled to the others. Sharon speaks

to her sergeant.

ON CATCH

He is shaken, too.    Sanchez is taking notes as Ray checks

his I.D.

Ray nods, handing the I.D. to Sanchez.

Catch glances at Sharon again, and he nods.

EXT. UPSCALE RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY (SAME DAY)

Catch, a bit bruised and dirty from his tackle, is

carrying groceries up the walkway steps to a small, well-

kept home. He is taking out a key as he walks to the

covered portico.

INT. MRS. CHU'S HOME - DAY

ELANORA CHU, 60, is an attractive woman with warmth and

intelligence in her eyes. She is in a wheelchair, at a

writing table where she carefully translates an English

text into Chinese characters.

She glances up as Catch opens the front door and heads

for the kitchen, speaking as he goes, not looking at her

or into the living room at all.

She rolls away from the table in her motorized chair --

and as they speak across the house, she performs a

ritual...

Elanora is moving about the living room, picking up

framed photographs and turning them face down. We don't

see what -- or who -- is in these photos. She is turning

them all in a routine way, used to this.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Catch is at the cupboards, putting away groceries as

Elanora rolls into the kitchen, her CHAIR HUMMING.

CONTINUED:

They are not smiling at their little jokes, but they have

an ease with each other and the deep love of dear

friends. He doesn't pause in his work, but we can see

some nervousness in him as he says...

Mrs. Chu is now taking some of the groceries out of the

bags to help.

Elanora is more interested and curious now, still helping

with the groceries and being casual.

Catch goes on working, a depth in his eyes.

CONTINUED:

Elanora watches him work and gladdens slightly.     We see

her own depth of feeling.

He is still working, but his eyes are on his thoughts,

his struggle.

Elanora stares a moment.      This has meaning for her.

He doesn't answer.      He's nervous about this.

Now she watches him as he moves to the refrigerator and

continues his work in silence.

INT. RIB HOUSE - THAT NIGHT

It's a noisy restaurant with a large bar area. We PAN TO

a booth of off-duty cops, out of uniform now, including

Ray, Sanchez, Sharon and a few more male officers.

They're all a bit high. Sharon shows the signs, too.

They are passing around a photo now as one COP looks at

it and says...

... And Sanchez says proudly.

Ray is handed the photo, and we see that they're talking

about Sanchez's dog, the name "REX" printed on the photo.

CONTINUED:

There is some laughter.     Ray is a smart-ass and a flirt.

She moves some of the change on the table, sliding it

toward Ray.

They laugh and drink and Ray asks her...

More laughter. Sharon's eyes do a quick roam of the bar.

Ray catches this.

She shrugs this off like it's not important and starts to

slide out of the booth.

CONTINUED:

She leaves the booth with a wry frown.

She grins, leaving the laughter behind her.

ANGLE - DOOR

Catch has entered the bar. He is watching Sharon leave

the booth and walk to the rest rooms. He looks back at

the raucous booth and hesitates. He sits at a small

table near the door.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Sharon is drying her hands in the bar's bathroom, staring

into the mirror. No smile now. We see into her mind for

a second.

FLASHBACK - MAN

Pointing the gun at her face today.

BACK TO SHARON (PRESENT)

in the mirror and see how shaken she still is.

ON CATCH

A waitress is leaving his table, and he looks back at

Sharon's booth and sees that she still isn't there. He

starts to turn, and then freezes as he hears...

CONTINUED:

She has stepped out of the bathroom and spotted him.      He

is surprised, face to face now.

He shrugs.

He half rises and gestures to the other chair. She

glances back at her booth, then sits. She's nervous,

too.

She puts out her hand. He stares at that hand for just

half a beat before taking it. They shake. The feel of

her hand holding his evokes the memory of the accident,

but he covers this.

Her way to cover nervousness is to be blunt, even tough.

CONTINUED:

He has made her smile.

CONTINUED:

Now she has made him smile, the first real smile we've

seen from Catch. It's open and real and she is charmed

by it.

She's a bit self-conscious, saying that, and just as she

says it, the waitress arrives with shots and beers for

both of them. Sharon looks up, questioning, and the

waitress nods toward the booth. Catch and Sharon see the

cops, staring, smiling, raising their glasses. There is

a hint of teasing in their grins. And now Sharon is more

self-conscious, and a bit tough again, taking her drink

and turning back to Catch.

CONTINUED:

They clink glasses and drink.         Then...

But now Ray Juliette is approaching the table.

Sharon drains her shot and stands.

Catch stands and turns to Ray.

Sharon frowns and waves to the booth of cops.        Ray smiles

and shakes hands with Catch as a good-bye.

CONTINUED:

And Catch and Sharon leave.

EXT. BAR - NIGHT

As Catch and Sharon exit the building, walk toward her

car.

They walk on, silent a moment.      This doesn't come easy

for her.

He hesitates, nervous about it, but then...

They walk to her car.

They walk side by side a moment.      He shrugs.   Then -- in

his open way...

She glances at him, taking this in, then fumbles a bit

with her car keys, and he asks -- nervously again...

CONTINUED:

She gets a little defensive.

He nods, looks at her dead-on a moment.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

As they get in and she STARTS the ENGINE.

They drive a while. She notices his anxiety.     He grips

the armrest when she speeds up.

She glances at him, and he notices her glance.

CONTINUED:

He's forcing himself to relax. He takes a deep breath,

sitting back in his seat. He watches her as she drives.

After a moment...

She smiles in spite of herself, slows down.

Now she laughs. She drives, not to his building, but to

her own street. She parks, takes a deep breath. This

sounds a bit hard-bitten because she's using her

toughness to cover.

She halts.

She says this clipped and fast and even tougher:

CONTINUED:

For a moment, she shows her fear.

They stare a while, then she opens her door.

INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

As they walk in, she moves into the kitchen.

She pours one for herself while he looks about. It's a

stiff drink. Now that he's here, her I-don't-want-to-

make-a-fool-of-myself alarm is on. She flops on the

sofa, watches him.

He's looking around at the clutter of her life -- the

intimate details.

CONTINUED:

He turns to her.

She smiles in spite of herself.

CONTINUED:

He looks at her, steps close to her, takes the drink out

of her hand, puts it to his lips and drinks it all down.

He puts the glass on the table.

She gets a half smile, assessing him. Her look is

direct, and the attraction is there. He feels it, too,

and he deflects it, nodding toward a large photomural of

snowcapped mountains.

She rises and goes to a desk and takes the holstered gun

off her ankle. She takes the cuffs off her belt, the

mace from her jacket, the shield from her shirt pocket,

puts them all in a desk drawer. She takes off her jacket

and throws it over a chair. Disarmed, she turns to him.

Her look is all wanting and pushing away, almost fierce

in her struggle. He sees this.

CONTINUED:

Her eyes grow a bit hard, defensive.

She smiles in spite of herself -- again. He has gotten

to her. She wants to fall into this guy, but she's

pumping those brakes. They are standing close together.

That makes her laugh, and her resistance falls away with

her surprised laughter, and she puts her hands around the

back of his neck. Her touch is electric to him. She is

going in for a kiss, and he is retreating. They stare a

moment -- and then he suddenly takes her shoulders and

lets loose his own longing. It is a hungry and

passionate kiss, and in the very midst of it, he breaks

off and pulls back, his darkness rushing at him. She is

staring, surprised, and he is looking a bit shaken,

getting the words out just above a whisper.

She doesn't know what to say. The moment hangs. He

leaves. Once he closes the door, the breath escapes her,

and she shakes her head -- feeling like an idiot. She

lost control. With a stranger.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Catch leaving Sharon's building in a turmoil of emotions,

staring hard at his thoughts -- and he steps into the

path of a car. The CAR SCREECHES to a stop, and the

scream of those brakes and white light of the head lamps

paralyze Catch, and he sees --

FLASHBACK - SLIVER OF IMAGE

Headlights suddenly washing into a vehicle he is driving.

BACK TO SCENE    (PRESENT)

This sliver of memory jolts HIM -- and then another one

comes.

FLASHBACK - HEADLIGHTS

coming closer and the scream of brakes from his memory,

and all of this is exploded --

BACK TO SCENE    (PRESENT)

by the angry DRIVER shouting at him.

Catch is numb -- completely shut down there in the middle

of the street. The Driver exits his car and comes toward

him, raging.

Catch isn't even aware of him. The man gawks at this --

and now Catch walks off. It is raining. The streets are

wet.

ANGLE - RESIDENTIAL STREET - NIGHT

As Catch continues his walk, he is still a bit shaken --

but when he passes a parked car with the window half

open, rain getting in, he hesitates. He can't just walk

on. He looks about. He tests the lock. He opens the

door, rolls up the window, closes the door, walks on.

But a MAN is just exiting a doorway to the street -- and

calls out...

Catch stops and turns in the rain.     The Man hurries

toward him, upset, angry.

CONTINUED:

The Man shoves him.

The Man gets in his face, shaky...

He shoves Catch again, and Catch's desperate confusion

explodes in a surprising reaction, grabbing the Man's

jacket front in one hand and not punching him but quickly

slap, slap, slapping him, saying...

The Man is now speechless, frozen, terrified, as Catch's

eyes hold him with a fierceness -- and a sadness.

Catch lets him go, and immediately begins walking away,

hunching into the rain, his expression dark and troubled.

He gets five steps away and turns. The Man steps back --

but Catch only says...

And he walks on.        The Man watches him go.

INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT BUILDING CORRIDOR - NEXT DAY

Candace, Catch's neighbor, is waiting for the slow,

RATTLING ELEVATOR with her son.

CONTINUED:

The elevator door opens -- and there is Catch, seated on

a newly-bought wicker chair in the elevator with a small

table across his lap, other boxes nearby and a

long-stemmed rose in his hand, wrapped for giving.

He rises and hurriedly gets his purchases off the

elevator so the woman and little boy can enter.

He smiles at her, a bit less subdued than before as he

gets his things into the hall -- and he manages a special

look for Tommy, a wink. He frees the elevator; they step

inside. As the door starts to close, Catch's face

"follows" the sliding door with a funny look for the boy.

We hear Tommy laugh as the door closes. Catch carries

his new possessions to his apartment.

EXT. OLDER HOUSE - LATE DAY

A well-kept older home, well-planted, pretty. A woman of

nearly 60 is tending the flowers. She hears someone

approaching the gate in the wooden fence. She looks up.

Sharon is at the gate, in uniform, on her dinner break.

The older woman is her MOTHER, Elaine Pogue. There is an

old strain between them, a sadness -- and a nervousness

in Elaine. She's a quiet woman. She smiles at her

daughter as Sharon comes through the gate. They hug

tentatively, a lot of baggage here. Sharon turns to the

garden.

There is a beat of awkward silence.

INT. POGUE HOME - DAY

As they enter.

CONTINUED:

It's a bit dark inside, older furniture, lots of keepsake

clutter and photos. Sharon is restless in here -- bad

memories.

Her Mother touches her hair, self-consciously. She can't

help glancing at her daughter in all that gear --

bullet-proof vest under her shirt, radio, cuffs -- and

that gun.

Sharon steps close to the mantel. There is a photo of

her there, graduating from the police academy, a

professional, not a family shot. She is surprised.

Sharon takes that in, still looking about.

CONTINUED:

Her Mother sighs, sad for all the trouble between them.

Sharon stares deeply at her.

CONTINUED:

Now her Mother shows a trace of fear.     She says gently...

They each get a small, sad smile.

Her Mother starts to leave the room.

CONTINUED:

Sharon goes to the door, then stops and turns, letting

her guard down all the way to say...

And she leaves.

EXT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - EVENING

Sharon is climbing the   outdoor staircase to her

apartment, tired after   her shift, drained a bit   by her

visit home. When she    reaches her door she sees   that a

long-stemmed rose has   been masking-taped to her   door.

Written on the masking   tape is: "Catch Lambert"    and a

phone number.

She pauses, staring at this, gets a little grin.

INT. SHARON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT (HOURS LATER)

Sharon is dressed for bed in a sleep shirt, lying on the

bed, surrounded by old photos and a couple of photo

albums from her girlhood. In a vase on her bed table is

Catch's rose.

Sharon is feeling blue, looking at her young self within

the family that has shut her out. She closes the book,

angry at herself for nearly crying. She sits up and

catches sight of the rose and rummages in the drawer and

pulls out the tape with Catch's phone number on it.

She's very conflicted    about this. She puts the tape

down, but it sticks to    her fingers. She tears it off and

tries to throw it onto    the table, but it hangsoff her

thumb. She sighs and     steels herself and dialsthe

number.

INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT

He has bought a shelf unit that "needs some assembly" and

he's at work with a screwdriver, his new chair and table

nearby, the phone on the floor. PHONE RINGS, and he

picks it up.

FULL SHOT

As we INTERCUT the call:

She hangs up. He stares at the phone a moment,

bewildered. He hangs up, and his PHONE RINGS. He lets

it ring. His MACHINE comes on with no recording, only a

BEEP.

She hangs up, sighs a heavy one.

And she falls back on her bed.

INT. DENNY'S - MORNING

Catch walks in, glances at the clock. It's 7 A.M. He's

nervous -- and excited. He takes a seat where he can

watch the park, the runners. He waits.

INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - MORNING

She has tossed and turned all night. She is awake,

turning to look at her clock-radio. It is 7:14. She

raises a hand over it.

CONTINUED:

It changes to   7:15 and the RADIO COMES ON.    She slams her

hand down on   it, cutting it OFF. She lays    back and

heaves a sigh   that becomes a moan, sits up   again and

picks up the   phone, dials the number on the   tape.

She hangs up and lays back down and pounds her head into

the pillow and covers herself, even her head, with the

sheet.

INT. DENNY'S - MORNING

Catch is waiting, watching out the window.      It's 8:05,

until we...

INT. DENNY'S - MORNING

... and now it's 8:38, and Catch is still waiting and

watching.

INT. SHARON'S BEDROOM - MORNING

She is still in bed, under the sheet. Someone begins

KNOCKING on her door and she sits up, bleary and

frustrated.

She stumbles out of the bedroom to her door.

CONTINUED:

She opens the door.    He wears a stern look.     She is not

apologetic.

She gives an exasperated moan and turns to stagger back

to bed. He closes the door and follows.

She heads for the bed, passing a     mirror, looking at her

rumpled self and groaning at the     sight.  She climbs into

bed and snuggles there and puts     the sheet over her head.

He is entering the bedroom. He      carries a Denny's take-

out bag.

The lump under the sheet says...

CONTINUED:

She has come out from under the sheet and is watching

him.

She sits up. He hands her the coffee.         She sips,

relishing the sip, then studies him.

CONTINUED:

Convinced -- she picks up one of the throw pillows from

the bed and tosses it at him.

She hands him the coffee. He hits her with the pillow

and hands her back the coffee. He has made her smile,

but she continues, half teasing now.

CONTINUED:

He is conflicted -- but he won't relent. He walks to the

door. She stares, waiting. But he never turns around.

He walks out. She is mystified, exasperated. She hears

her FRONT DOOR CLOSE. She puts the coffee on her bed

table -- and finds herself staring at that damn rose.

She suddenly gets up and begins to dress hurriedly --

with a plan.

EXT. BOULEVARD - DAY

Sharon is driving, speeding a bit, getting to Catch's

building ahead of him.

EXT. CATCH'S BUILDING - DAY

He approaches his apartment building, unlocks the front

door, walks in the entrance area. Now we see, across the

street, Sharon exit her car and follow him.

EXT. BUILDING - DAY

The front door has locked automatically. Outside there

is a panel of buzzers and apartment numbers. Sharon hits

all the buttons. Somebody BUZZES her in.

INT. LOBBY - DAY

Sharon enters, looks at the elevators. It's not moving.

She goes to the stairs, listens, hears him TRUDGING UP

the stairway. She follows silently.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

As Catch reaches his apartment door, unlocks it, opens it

and walks in.

INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT - DAY

Before he can close the DOOR behind him, it BANGS open

wider, startling him -- and Sharon is in the doorway,

staring hard at him.

She walks in and closes the door and starts looking

around as he says...

Despite his recent "decorating" the apartment is still

nearly empty. No books, magazines, photographs, no

clutter of life. She glances into the equally sterile

kitchen.

He has made her look at herself, and take a breath.

He is silent, and she starts to leave.     Moment of truth.

CONTINUED:

She looks at him, looks at his empty place, his non-life,

and back at him again.

She breaks off the stare and heads for the door.     He

watches her go.

EXT. UPSCALE NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY (SAME DAY)

As Catch charges up the stairs to the wide porch of Mrs.

Chu's well-kept home, carrying a grocery bag, head full

of his thoughts.

INT. MRS. CHU'S HOME - DAY

As Catch enters. She is watching TV. He does glance

into the living room briefly to throw her a quick hello

smile, before moving to the kitchen. She SNAPS OFF the

TV and begins turning the photos face down as she sends

her voice to the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

He is putting groceries away as she rolls into the room.

He doesn't look at her, tries to be casual, but his

thoughts are bubbling out.

Mrs. Chu registers surprise at this, but keeps it covered

and casual.

He darkens a bit as he works.

The can in Catch's hand bangs on the cupboard, and he

stops, suddenly uptight.

CONTINUED:

Mrs. Chu comes closer.

His next warning is tough and absolute.

She is silenced. The moment hangs. She rolls her chair

to him, takes a box of cookies out of his hand, opens the

box and eats one, defusing the moment.

He starts to work again.

CONTINUED:

He stares at her a while.

She smiles and hands him the box.

INT. POLICE REPORT ROOM - NIGHT

Sharon is typing at the computer, dark and dogged in her

work.  Lieutenant Sanderman is watching her through the

glass wall of the watch commander's office. He comes out

of the office and moves to where Sharon is typing.

We can see the   computer screen now. Sharon is searching

for any prior   record of "Catch Lambert" -- arrests,

convictions.    She has several "Carl Lamberts" on the

screen, even a   "Casper," no Catch.

Sharon stops typing.     She can find nothing.    She clears

the screen, sighs.

CONTINUED:

This hits her hard.

Sharon is quiet a while, taking it in, shaken by it.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET (CULVER CITY) - DAY (NEXT MORNING)

Sharon, not in uniform, is approaching Larry's house. It

has a small yard with kids' toys strewn about and a tire-

swing. She walks up on the porch and RINGS the DOORBELL.

She hears VOICES inside, LARRY AND KATHY, a quick

murmuring, low-voice argument, can't make out the words.

In a moment, Larry opens the door.

INT. LARRY'S HOME - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The place is messy.    A TV can be heard -- CARTOONS.

Sharon nods, but then walks past him.

INT. CHILD'S ROOM - DAY

As Sharon walks into this toy-strewn room. Larry Jr. is

sitting on the floor, watching a small TV. Kathy is not

with him. Sharon kneels beside the boy a moment.

But he stays focused on the TV, some darkness, some

unsayable worry in his eyes. She picks up a toy car,

speaks softly.

Now he looks at her with sad and bottomless eyes. She is

hurting for him. Larry is now in the doorway. Sharon

kisses the child's head and walks out, passing her

brother.

INT. HALLWAY

As Sharon heads for the master bedroom, Larry takes her

arm.

CONTINUED:

Sharon pulls away from her brother.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Sharon walks in. Kathy is sitting on the bed, her face

badly bruised. They stare. Kathy speaks quietly, her

eyes filling.

Sharon moves closer. She reaches out, touches Kathy with

a comforting touch as the woman turns her bruised face

away.

Larry is in the doorway now, angry.

She walks out of the room and he follows her.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

She turns on him.

CONTINUED:

She comes very close to him.

He grabs her shirt hard.

He pushes her into the wall.

He swings a slap at her. She blocks it and punches him

hard in the face, and he crashes down on the floor.

Kathy comes running, calling out...

CONTINUED:

Kathy sees that it's Larry on his ass. The little boy

comes out of his room. There is a surprised moment.

Then Kathy picks up the child and takes him back to his

room. Larry is sitting up, shaken, his nose bleeding.

Sharon goes close to him, rigid with fury.

And she leaves the house and SLAMS the DOOR.

INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

She is just returning home after her shift, very tired,

drained. She absently turns ON the TV, the STEREO. She

notices a blinking light on her MESSAGE MACHINE and hits

the button.

The message ends.     She stands there a moment.

She sits on the edge of a chair, worried, deep in her

thoughts, hitting bottom -- the darkness engulfing her.

In a moment, she looks at her desk, walks there, opens a

drawer, pulls out that piece of tape with Catch's number

on it -- but it is all stuck to itself. She hesitates,

then starts to pick it apart when a KNOCK at the door

makes her jump. She wonders, then, somehow, she knows.

She walks to the door.

CONTINUED:

She unlocks   and opens the door, stares at Catch, very

vulnerable,   on the very edge, her pain and fear over

Larry just   under the surface. Catch holds a box of

cookies as   an offering.

She steps back, allowing him in, and closes the door and

turns to him.

He sees her pain and puts his arms around her, pushes

through his fear and holds her -- and she lays her head

on his chest. He embraces her fully, and the effect on

him goes deep, to his core, where there is both pain and

longing, but he holds on to her, even rocks her a bit.

She sighs. In a moment...

He walks her to the couch and has her sit, and then

slowly, gently, he "disarms" her. He lifts her leg,

takes the ankle holster and gun off, puts it on the

table. He turns her, takes the cuffs off her belt from

the middle of her back. He reaches into her pants pocket

and removes the Mace. From her shirt pocket he takes her

I.D. shield. He has her lie down on the couch now, their

faces close, eyes locked. They linger...

CONTINUED:

He looks a little lost, but he nods, helpless. He comes

toward her lips -- finally -- but just before they touch,

she says, softly...

He's not sure what to do. He begins to look her over --

as if hunting, and she gets a soft smile. He starts

slowly toward her ear -- but she shakes her head. Her

shirt is out of her belt and her midriff bare, and he

starts to move there, but checks her with a look. She

shakes her head. He hunts. Her smile deepens a bit. He

takes her hand and turns it over, going for the soft

flesh on the underside of her forearm, and she closes her

eyes. He kisses her there softly, and then again, and

then he lavishes kisses from her wrist to the underside

of her elbow as she sighs with pleasure and draws up her

knees in a kind of sensual glow that is leading them

to... No. He stops. She looks at him, a deep look, soft

voice.

She has a glimpse of his mystery, the old sorrow, the

deep pain. He hugs her drawn-up knees, closing his eyes

a moment. Then he sits on the couch, puts a pillow on

his lap and raises her slightly, lays her head on the

pillow. He strokes her hair, her scalp as she closes her

eyes and sighs, slowly moving toward sleep. Our TRUMPET

MUSIC slides in here, lush and dreamy as we linger a

while, and then --

INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Just after dawn. Catch has slept on the couch. He is

beginning to awaken now as the first light strikes the

windows. The dreamy TRUMPET FADES OUT. Catch's eyes

clear, sleep replaced by thought, and he is suddenly

shaken by --

FLASHBACK - CATCH'S POV

-- a sliver of memory. But in this one, he is driving.

We see his hands on the wheel. Then his POV looks to the

side and we see an Asian-American woman seated beside

him, attractive, about his age. Her name is Annie. She

is saying something to him. We don't hear the words.

When the FLASHBACK ENDS --

BACK TO SCENE (PRESENT)

Catch sits up on the couch, jolted.   He gets another

sudden --

FLASHBACK - HEADLIGHTS

glaring through his windshield, blinding him. He gasps,

sitting there on the couch, but it's all over. He

stands, rattled, and he moves toward Sharon's bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

Sharon is peacefully asleep. He stands over her with

troubled eyes, but this slowly changes to a loving look.

He bends close to her face. He feels her breath on him.

He wants to lie down with her -- but he raises a hand and

very gently brushes her cheek. She stirs. He does it

again. She sighs a peaceful sigh, opens her eyes. He

smiles at her.

EXT. BOULEVARD - DAY

Sharon is driving Catch home. They are now on a main

boulevard of stores, office buildings. They stop at a

light. Both are surprised by a voice calling out from

the pedestrians crossing the street.

They look up to see a well-dressed man pausing in the

middle of the crosswalk to face their car. He is in his

forties, tall, with grey-blond hair. This is RICHARD

PINDELLA. He has a small smile and wave for Catch.

Sharon is curious, looking at Catch. Catch throws the

man a dark look and then turns away, ignoring him,

nervous, intense.

Pindella is moving toward the car, Sharon watching him,

wondering.

CONTINUED:

The light changes. Pindella hurries to the curb as the

cars surge forward. Sharon drives slowly, checking the

mirror to see Pindella stare after them -- then enter the

office building on the corner.

She makes a turn, glancing at Catch.

But his dark look persists, and he doesn't answer.

Then...

He is nervous, being in the car -- and glad to leave it

when she pulls over. She watches this, wondering.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Sharon exits the car and locks it, staring at Catch.

She hesitates,    then falls in   beside him as he walks on.

They walk along    in silence,   the neighborhood growing more

seedy, tougher    as they go.    Catch is relaxing now, trying

to push it all    away. Sharon    looks around her.

CONTINUED:

As someone approaches them, Catch makes eye contact and

smiles a small, friendly smile-in-passing. He gets a

brief smile in return. He and Sharon amble on. He does

it again.

He nods to another YOUNG MAN he's never met...

Catch and Sharon smile.

She has misgivings. A young woman is bustling along.

Sharon makes eye contact and presents a nervous smile and

a nod -- but the woman looks at her sternly and bustles

on.

CONTINUED:

Catch smiles, Sharon frowns, but when an OLD MAN passes,

she gives a small smile. The Man lights up.

Catch looks at her. She tries to shrug it off, but can't

quite hide her pleasure. Now Catch is pausing as a woman

is walking her six-year-old daughter to their parked car.

Catch makes eye contact with the girl and does a goofy

wave that makes her smile. Sharon smiles, too. As the

girl's MOTHER is unlocking the car, the girl shyly looks

back at Catch for more fun. He does that quick finger

trick -- trying to catch his own thumb, and the girl

giggles But the Mother is impatient.

The girl gets in. The Mother is about to close the door.

She frowns, mean-eyed.

The girl slides in further,         and the Mother slams the

door. The girl follows her          mother with hurt eyes as she

walks around to the driver's         side. Catch has paused to

watch this, his eyes gentle         on the girl. The Mother is

about to enter the car when         she sees Catch staring.

Sharon is uncomfortable.       Catch persists, never flinching

at the woman's anger.

CONTINUED:

Catch's anger is like flint in his eyes.         It surprises

Sharon. She's upset by this.

The Woman gets into the car and slams the door.

The Woman speeds her car away.       Sharon gets in Catch's

face.

CONTINUED:

That stops him, the darkness rising.    He looks about,

trying to contain it.

CONTINUED:

She turns and walks away.      He is still angry, but sorry

to see her go.

But she   keeps walking, and he watches her walk away.

Then he   walks on, upset, mad at himself, trying to pound

through   it, walking quickly. He is passing an alley,

when he   hears a CRASH. He looks in...

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

He sees a large dog that has just knocked over a garbage

can. He and the dog stare. Catch walks into the alley,

approaches the big dog, squats down to look the animal in

the eye, and begins petting it. The big mutt is now

leaning into the petting, and Catch's eyes go deep -- and

slowly find their way to a sad smile.

EXT. CITY STREETS - DAY

Sharon and Robby    are patrolling in their unit. Robby is

driving. Sharon     is watching out the window with a deep-

eyed look, a bit    down because of her argument with Catch.

She is staring as    she rolls along.

SHARON'S POV

She is watching the people on the street, NOTICING, for

once, just how isolated they are, each in a box, passing

without connecting.

ON SHARON

watching.

INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT - LATER THAT DAY

We've never seen the apartment flooded by sunlight like

this, all blinds open.

CONTINUED:

We START in the kitchen, staring at the drawer that is

now so loaded with toys, it won't shut. Some brightly-

painted soldiers are sticking out of the drawer.

In the living room there are two chairs now, and more

lamps and tables. Our PAN REVEALS that the dog from the

alley is sitting in the living room, watching Catch --

whom we now see is hanging a picture on the wall -- a

mountain scene. He holds the picture in one place, then

moves it to another, wondering. His fight with Sharon

still colors his mood, but he's working through it.

He glances at the dog as he moves the picture.

The dog watches him.

EXT. LARRY'S HOUSE - EVENING

It is early evening of the same day, and Sharon is just

off shift, out of uniform in her own car, parking on

Larry's street and walking to the door. She knocks --

and takes a step back. Larry opens the door, already

angry, his nose bandaged, eyes blackened a bit from the

blow.

They stare. She starts walking back into his darkening

front yard, looking over her shoulder. She walks to a

tree where the tire swing hangs, waits there. He goes

back inside, but leaves the door open. In a moment he

reappears, coming outside, closing the door behind him.

ON SHARON AND LARRY

As they meet by the tire swing.    His eyes burn her, hate

and pain.

CONTINUED:

He has a Polaroid photo in his hand, holds it in front of

her, dried blood and bad bruising on his face.

He puts it in his pocket, and they stare a moment more.

She looks away.     She nods, speaks softly.

Their stare holds, but she is giving way.

This is very hard for her.

CONTINUED:

She nods, her voice smaller, almost a whisper.

He makes her wait, thinking it over.

In a moment Sharon nods.

Her eyes snap to his, surprised.

After another moment, she nods again -- and he snatches

the photo out of his shirt pocket and pushes it against

her chest and walks away. The photo falls to the ground.

Larry says without turning...

... and she snaps.

CONTINUED:

The words burst out of her, thick with tears, but she's

not crying. Larry stops and turns.

She reaches down, snatches the Polaroid photo off the

ground, walks to her car, enters and slams the door as

hard as it is possible to slam it.

EXT. SANTA MONICA MOUNTAINS - DAY

Moving through the panorama are two small figures on a

hiking trail, traveling uphill on a ridge.

ON SHARON, CATCH

Sharon is pounding along, barely out of breath. She

studies the beautiful view, and it helps her. It lifts

her. Catch is falling behind, breathing heavily.

She waits.     He catches up.

CONTINUED:

But she walks on.

She smiles and walks on, and he follows, calling out.

EXT. POND - DAY (BIT LATER)

Sharon is already unpacking their lunch as Catch trudges

up and collapses near a stream-fed pond. She hands him a

sandwich, but he shakes his head.

She smiles again and takes a bite and stares off, and

soon enough her dark thoughts come and cover her, and

Catch notices.

CONTINUED:

He keeps staring, waiting. She is chewing a sandwich,

looking at him. Finally, she begins -- with no emotion.

He is staring at her.     He takes her hands, holds them.

CONTINUED:

She stares a moment, then speaks with an irony he doesn't

pick up on.

He takes off his T-shirt and begins stripping off his

shorts, his underwear!

She is surprised, smiling, as he plunges into the pond,

her darkness dissipating.

He dives under and surfaces again.

He dives and surfaces once more.       We STAY CLOSE ON him.

He stops because she isn't there. He looks about. Then

suddenly he sees her, poised on a boulder right above

him, in her underwear about to dive! He yelps and gets

out of her way, and she dives off the rock in classic,

near-professional form, a beautiful, sleek dive. She

hits the water just right and surfaces, and they splash

and swim and frolic and dunk each other in unabashed

play.

CONTINUED:

At one point she jumps at him to dunk him, and he catches

her. They are in chest-deep water and their faces are

close. They pause -- then she goes in for a kiss, but he

pulls his head back, avoiding that kiss and says...

She smiles, staring, then slowly reaches her hands to his

face, gently closes his eyes and is about to kiss him on

the closed lids, but she changes her mind and instead

puts her lips tenderly on each of the small scars on his

face. Then she moves away. He opens his eyes. She

walks to the shore, moves to her clothes and starts

getting dried and dressed, giving him a soft look.

Catch comes to the shore    to dry himself, but as he

dresses, Sharon glances    at his body -- and the scarring

on his chest and arms.     He is troubled about this,

avoiding her eyes. Then     he makes a decision.

She waits -- but he says no more. She continues        to

dress, sliding her shorts over her wet underwear       -- but

before she puts her shirt on, she turns her back       to take

off her wet bra. He glances at her. She looks         over and

catches him glancing. They both smile softly,

ironically, as they finish dressing.

CONTINUED:

She smiles and walks off toward the food. He stares

after her, his smile fading into thoughtfulness, memory,

as he dresses.

EXT. COFFEE HOUSE - DAY

Catch is standing outside, looking in through the large

window, searching. His eyes settle on a man, and he

stares. The man, about his age, is having coffee and

reading the paper. Catch is staring deeply, mustering

his courage. He walks into the place.

INT. COFFEE HOUSE - DAY

Catch hesitates, then walks over and stands beside this

man until he -- JACK MOLINA -- looks up. Jack beams with

recognition and surprise.

Catch is held back, smiling a bit, but on thin ice here,

dipping into his past.

Jack's smile clouds as memory kicks in.

Catch, with a steady look, says...

Jack nods a moment.

CONTINUED:

Catch stares, nods.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY (LATER SAME DAY)

In a seedy parking lot, tough part of town, Robby and

Sharon are arresting two teenage girls. One of them is

leaning on the car as Sharon searches her. Robby stands

back with the other (cuffed) girl. Robby is staring at

Sharon through this moment -- noting the difference in

her, still very professional -- but softer. The girl is

upset, near tears. Sharon is gentle in her search.

The girl nods, not trusting her voice.

CONTINUED:

Sharon is searching, Robby is noting all this, his eyes

appreciating the difference.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT (LATER THAT NIGHT)

Sharon and Robby are still on the job, their unit rolling

down a residential street of apartment buildings. A

parked car is BLASTING MUSIC, and Robby halts beside it.

Sharon starts making dancing moves to the MUSIC, sitting

there beside Robby, and he stares at her as she grooves,

kidding it. Then Robby HITS the HORN to get the driver's

attention in the parked car. Robby makes a gesture to

lower the volume, and the man SNAPS OFF his TAPE. Robby

rolls on, glancing at Sharon. She wears a small smile,

checking their beat.

She smiles at Robby's look.

Robby stops the unit, rolling the windows down.     They

hear the FARAWAY SOUND of...

Robby pulls over.

CONTINUED:

They exit the car and stand in the street, looking up,

scanning the dark buildings -- but the sound is hard to

track, a FAINT BALLAD on a skillful HORN.

They stare at the full moon. In a moment, we hear the

sound of ROARING CARS, their TIRES SCREECHING as they

turn onto this street, one car speeding ahead to cut off

the other and force it to stop. The two male drivers are

screaming at each other. Robby shakes his head.

They run toward the drivers who are exiting their cars to

confront each other. One big guy carries a baseball bat.

Robby heads off one DRIVER while Sharon intercepts the

BAT-MAN.

The man hesitates, then moves toward his trunk.

CONTINUED:

The man charges, bat in hand, and Sharon makes a flying

tackle, bringing him down hard on the street -- and we

immediately...

INT. SHARON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT (LATER)

as she lies on the bed, on her stomach, her top off, and

Catch straddles her, massaging her back and shoulder

which are sore from her tackle.

She begins to moan as he digs out the pain. He is

fighting against the erotic charge of this, trying to

keep it medicinal, but he's got his hands all over her

naked back, and she is moaning -- so he stops and takes a

breath.

He reaches to the bed table and puts oil on his hands,

noticing a card that stands open on the tabletop, a very

pretty invitation.

CONTINUED:

She doesn't answer. He puts it down, comes back to the

slow rubbing of her shoulders, her neck. In a moment...

She moans in pleasure as he rubs, trying to push all

other thoughts away.

But we see her eyes turn inward toward the old pain and,

for once, she shares it.

CONTINUED:

Catch works in silence a while, absorbing this, looking

at Sharon with more tenderness than ever. In a moment...

CONTINUED:

Sharon is considering his words, but she's also deep in

her old pain, defensive, challenging.

That hits him, but he keeps rubbing her, gentle now,

looking a little lost. He doesn't answer.

But as he works her back in silence, we see her facing

her pain and thinking through it.

INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - NEXT MORNING

Just after dawn. Catch is on the couch, stirring in his

sleep, in the grip of an unsettling dream. We hear what

he hears: the VOICES of his wife, his son, murmurings.

We're not sure of the words, even laughter. Catch's eyes

snap open, jolted out of sleep, but the VOICES don't

stop, and he suddenly sits up. The VOICES FADE as he

catches his breath, gulping air. He tries to calm down.

In a moment, he rises and moves to Sharon's bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

He comes to the side of the bed and sees that she is

asleep. He sits on the bed and studies her, his dark

thoughts dissipating as he watches her sleep, his eyes

going deep. In a moment he begins to raise a hand to

brush her cheek -- the way awakened her before -- but he

stops before touching her. Instead, he brings his face

close to her and lightly kisses her.

She stirs. He kisses her again. She opens her eyes.

They stare at each other. She raises a limp hand and

touches his face. He begins to come close, slowly, for

another kiss. She welcomes it. They kiss on the mouth,

very tenderly. They kiss again -- deeper. They kiss

again, and she holds him, and he moves fully onto the

bed, lying over her and supporting his weight on his

elbows and kissing and kissing and letting go for once,

hungry for her because she is in his heart now, and she

is a salvation, and there is a moment when they both

pause and stare clear-eyed, acknowledging what they are

doing, and both of them abandon their fear and pain and

begin to smile, and they make love that way, smiling, as

we slowly...

INT. BLUES CLUB - NIGHT

The night of that same day finds us at this neighborhoody

place with a lot of down-to-earth atmosphere and not a

lot of noise, like Harvell's in Santa Monica -- earthy

blues and jazz from a small band in a darkish club, small

dance floor. We PAN during this slow number and ARRIVE

AT a few dancing couples, including Sharon and Catch who

mostly just hold each other and sway. When their eyes

meet, there is a lot of deep pleasure there.

The music ends. The small crowd applauds. Couples head

back to the tables, but the little band goes right into a

more up-tempo but still earthy blues. Sharon stops and

pulls Catch back onto the dance floor. He smiles and

follows.

This number has a driving beat, and, slowly, we watch

Sharon drop her inhibitions and become more and more   free

out there, and Catch is smiling and wowed by her, and   she

laughs, wowing herself, and she keeps going, getting   wild

and playful, and it's something to see. We LINGER ON    the

joy and abandon. She's earned it. They go a little

crazy, happy crazy, and in a while we...

SAME - HOURS LATER

The blues club is emptying out. It's late. The band is

finishing what seems to be its last number, for the last

of thinning crowd -- including a tired, happy Sharon and

Catch who applaud the end of the number. Catch stares at

her.

He rises -- as if to go to the band with a request.     She

smiles, spent.

She watches as he leaves her, walks to the bandstand.     He

talks to the leader who is the PIANO PLAYER.

SHARON'S POV

From the instrument cases on the floor behind the piano,

Catch picks up a trumpet case, opens it. Now Sharon's

tired smile is changing to curiosity, wonder.

ON CATCH

As he puts the mouthpiece on the horn, nervous, but

excited, too, speaking to the Piano Player.

Catch comes to the edge of the bandstand, grinning a bit

at Sharon, at his surprise for her, nervously fingering

the horn. He puts it to his lips.

ON SHARON

Mouth-open surprise -- and then smiling with the wonder -

- and Catch begins to play, closing his eyes and

rendering a ballad, like the haunting "ANGEL EYES."

Sharon's smile slowly fades, replaced by a much deeper

look, not only because he is so good, but because he is

showing her his heart, his love and even his pain -- more

than he can show her any other way. We INTERCUT as he

opens his eyes briefly, watching her, sending her the

music, closing his eyes again to fall into the song -- as

Sharon's eyes fill at the beauty and sadness of it, and

at this look inside her man. We LINGER. Then...

EXT. CLUB - NIGHT

We keep the sound of CATCH'S TRUMPET going as he and

Sharon exit the club and begin to stroll away, arms

around each other. In a moment, he stops. He can't go

another step. He has to kiss her. He holds her face and

comes in for the kiss, and above the music we hear her

say softly.

He stops and stares a moment, then takes her hand and

walks her out into the middle of the traffic-less

boulevard and there, in the center of the street, kisses

her, and she responds, and it is their finest, fullest

moment, lifting on the MUSIC, and it is ironic and

prophetic that at its peak they are washed over by the

revolving light from a police car and a SIREN that CHIRPS

once as they break, staring.

CONTINUED:

We WIDEN to see Ray and Sanchez in their police unit 20

feet away. Ray uses a small electronic bullhorn to

say...

Sharon laughs aloud and walks (with Catch in hand) to the

police car, her joy overwhelming any embarrassment. She

gestures behind them at the jazz club.

Catch notes the pride with which she says this.

She waves and walks off with Catch, arms around each

other. The cops watch them go.

INT. CATCH'S BEDROOM - DAY (NEXT MORNING)

Sharon is asleep, alone in the tousled bed.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Catch is dressed, putting a leash on Bob, glancing into

the bedroom at Sharon.

CONTINUED:

There is love in his look, and then a passing question,

too, a residue of fear now that their relationship has

begun in full -- but it all ends up in a soft smile for

her as he walks Bob to the door. He hesitates at the

door -- then walks into the kitchen and slides open that

drawer of toys, stares at them.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING (MINUTES LATER)

Sharon is waking, sleepy. She rises, finds a robe and

slips it on, calling out softly for Catch.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Sharon sees that Catch and Bob are gone. She drifts to

the window, looks at the day, looks down at the street --

and she sees them.

SHARON'S POV

She sees Catch and Bob on their way into the park across

the street from the building.

ON SHARON

She smiles and moves into the bedroom to dress.

EXT. CITY PARK - DAY (MINUTES LATER)

Catch is walking Bob in the park, but is also checking

for someone, studying the playground. He begins walking

toward the swings.

ANGLE - SANDBOX

Tommy, Catch's neighbor, is playing in the sand with a

metal truck. Catch walks up to Tommy, carrying a bulging

plastic bag -- but Tommy's attention is on Bob, and pets

the big, friendly dog.

ANGLE - CANDACE

She sits on a bench nearby, watching this, smiling a bit.

ON CATCH, TOMMY

Catch kneels in the sand, beside the boy, and he spills

out the contents of the bag -- action figures,

superheroes, soldiers. Tommy goes wide-eyed at the

array. Catch is pleased by the boy's reaction. Catch

keeps a layer of emotion covered here.

Tommy stares at him, then back at the toys in delight.

Candace is walking toward them, and Catch turns to her.

Her look of surprise questions him.

He nods. She kneels close to her boy, the toys, pleased

but not quite knowing what to say.

Catch nods, grins at Tommy who is already at play with

the figures.

ANGLE - SHARON

She has entered the park and witnessed this from a

distance. She is angling toward the playground.

ON CATCH

He watches Tommy at play with the figures, but it's

almost too much for him. He touches the boy and rises,

smiles and nods at Candace and begins to walk off.

ON SHARON

She hurries her steps to intersect with Catch.

ON CANDACE, TOMMY

Now Tommy looks up. Catch is moving away with Bob,

walking home. Tommy stands up, Candace calls out to stop

Catch.

ON CATCH

But he is walking on, some of the emotion seeping

through, not darkness, some old joy welling up. We see,

in b.g., Tommy starts to run after him to say thanks. We

now have a convergence of Tommy, Sharon and Catch, who is

moving steadily toward the street, crossing a bike path

now. A BIKER is coming on. All in one moment Catch

hears the WHIZZ of the BIKE, Tommy calling out "Thank

you," and Candace shouting "Be careful!" And Catch goes

cold inside and turns quickly and rushes onto the bike

path, taking the collision with the bike so Tommy is sure

to be safe. Catch and the biker fall hard. Sharon stops

-- holding her breath. Tommy watches, wide-eyed, and

Candace comes running.

Catch is rising, a little sore and soiled.        The biker is

angry.

But Catch is walking     away with that frozen, numb look,

all shut down by his     fear and his memory as Bob trots

along beside him and     the Biker comes after him and Tommy

and Candace watch him     go and Sharon hurries her steps to

catch up. The Biker      reaches Catch first.

But Catch won't turn to him, walking on -- and the man

gets in front of him, raging.

CONTINUED:

Pain and darkness build in Catch's eyes until he says in

a quiet, choked voice, right into the Biker's face...

The man stops talking, looking at the dead certainty in

Catch's eyes. He wants to say more, to save face, but

Catch's look holds him like a fist. Sharon has stopped,

frozen, watching. The Biker turns away and walks back to

his downed bike as Catch moves on. Sharon can hardly

believe all of this, following Catch again.

ON CATCH, SHARON

It takes a moment for her voice to penetrate, then he

quickly turns and sees her approaching.

But he is tight, nearly frozen, everything held in.

He walks away from her, and this shakes her, and she

catches up again.

But he walks on, desperate, and she gets in his way,

faces him.

He turns and walks off, heading for the street.

CONTINUED:

He has walked into traffic -- not completely unmindful of

the cars, but desperate to get away. She watches this,

frozen, as HORNS BLARE. He has to stop in the middle of

the street to wait a moment, and he stands there,

stricken.

ON CATCH

As the traffic moves around him and the dog -- a HORN

BLARES, BRAKES SCREECH, and he thrown into a storm of...

FLASHBACKS

That come sharper and faster than before, bits and pieces

of memory outside any order: He is driving, Annie smiles

at him, headlights blind him, Annie screams, the little

boy in Annie's arms grins at him, BRAKES SCREAM, Annie

says something to him, calmly, but he can't hear her, the

headlights blind him again and BRAKES SCREAM again, and:

BACK TO SCENE (PRESENT)

Catch stands there shaken and shut down.

ON SHARON

Watching him, shocked and frightened for him. She sees

the traffic let up, and Catch crosses and walks toward

home. She watches him go.

EXT. BUSY STREET - DAY (LATER)

As Robby and Sharon's police unit moves along with

traffic. In a moment they pull over and park beside an

office building. It is the same building the man entered

shouting, "Catch!" Sharon watches the building's

entrance. After a while...

CONTINUED:

She watches the building, studying the people who come

and go.

INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT - DAY

Catch is at home, still shaken by what happened to him in

the park. He reaches for the PHONE, punches in a number.

It RINGS and Elanora Chu picks up. Catch is deep in his

pain.

She senses the silence on the other end and quiets a bit.

She is quiet for a moment.

CONTINUED:

He doesn't speak, shakes his head.

He hangs up, staring at his thoughts.

EXT. BUSY STREET - DAY

Sharon is still staking out the office building. Robby

is fidgeting. She just keeps watching. When Robby

begins to speak, she puts up a hand to stop him, going

very still, staring out the window at the man who Catch

was afraid of, Richard Pindella. The man enters the

building. Sharon gets out of the car, intense...

And she hurries after the man.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

As Sharon enters, sees the man at the elevators. He gets

into an elevator, and she just misses him. She watches

the elevator indicator. It stops at two. She hurries up

the stairs.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

As Sharon bangs into a hallway through the stairway door.

She looks one way, looks the other way down the long

hall, and sees the man just entering a door. She walks

to that door. It is marked "private." She knocks and

walks in.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

She enters a comfortable office, many shelves, books,

couch and chairs, big desk. She hears the man's voice

from an anteroom. He's coming toward her.

He sees her now, sees the uniform.

CONTINUED:

He's calm, gentle in the eyes. She stares a moment,

trying to keep her emotions undercover.

She takes her time, afraid.

He glances at his watch, worried for Catch.

She's dying inside -- but covering, lying, forcing her

way into this.

CONTINUED:

She is unable to play this out as a "cop," her emotions

coming through. Pindella sees this. She sits on the

edge of a chair and takes a breath, speaks more softly.

He stares a moment, sympathetic -- and realizing...

She looks at him, nods.

CONTINUED:

He takes that in, leans back on the desk.

Something is pulling at her memory. Her vision turns

inward, and she stops breathing for a moment --

remembering. She was there. And here we get a...

FLASHBACK - CARNAGE

A glimpse of the carnage -- what she saw, first on the

scene -- with Catch lying there. All the while Pindella

is speaking.

BACK TO SHARON (PRESENT)

still in shock, looks at Pindella again.

CONTINUED:

Pindella stares, then...

She takes a moment, absorbing this.

She stares.

Very subdued now, she asks...

She stares at him and nods.

CONTINUED:

As he says that, we hear our TRUMPET MUSIC begin -- a

fast and furious MUTED TRUMPET, incredible RIFFS, and we

use this to carry us, as we...

INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS - DAY

Sharon is in the report room, using the computer,

hunting. We MOVE AROUND to see her and the screen. She

is searching the police records to find the accident.

The CONTINUING TRUMPET RIFFS are the motor for this. She

suddenly stops as we FOCUS ON the name: "LAMBERT." Then

we watch her as she punches up the data and she reads.

INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

We MOVE THROUGH Sharon's nearly dark apartment, its

stillness in strange contrast to the manic TRUMPET RIFFS.

We PAN to find her curled in a chair, staring deeply,

sadly, drinking a drink. As we PAN, we DISCOVER she is

looking at that mural of the mountains and through this

to her thoughts, and then she makes a decision and rises

and goes to the phone, punches in a number.

INT. CATCH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

He is sitting on his bed, back against the headboard,

sitting there fully dressed, shoes and all, knees up --

as he plays his muted trumpet, hard and fast, playing the

incredible riffs we've been hearing, playing in a driven

way, keeping his demons away. When the RING of the PHONE

breaks through, he stops suddenly. He waits. His

MACHINE CLICKS ON and BEEPS. We INTERCUT the call as

Sharon's voice comes on, subdued.

But he sits there, waiting, listening.

CONTINUED:

He sits there. He slowly puts the horn down. He reaches

for the phone now -- but she hangs up before he picks up

the call.

EXT. WESTWOOD STREET - CORNER - NEXT DAY

Catch waits on a busy street corner in Westwood Village

not far from Santa Monica. He is waiting, glancing over

the passing crowds for Sharon. He sees her. She is off

duty, out of uniform. He watches her until she spots

him. She smiles a little, but there is a mix of fear and

sadness in her smile. They walk to each other and stop

and hug, but it is brief, and then she keeps walking

slowly, and he walks beside her. There is a strain

lingering between them.

He glances at her, wondering, walking along.

They walk along in silence a moment.

CONTINUED:

They smile nervous smiles. She walks on, leading him

somewhere. He looks about, beginning to show some

agitation, but covering it.

He slows his steps, looking across the street and down

half a block...

HIS POV

We see an ivy-covered brick building there, with a sign

that is too far away for us to read.

ON CATCH AND SHARON

He looks quickly away from that building.       She sees his

growing agitation.

She takes his hand.

He suddenly pulls his hand out of hers, shocked, and it

shakes her.

CONTINUED:

He begins to shut down, to grow cold and numb and not

hear this.

He turns away, closing his eyes.

She puts her hand out for him again.

He does not take her hand, so she takes his and walks a

few steps toward that building.

He pulls his hand away again, more violently, a layer of

rage over his pain.

It is as if she's fighting for his life again -- and her

own.

CONTINUED:

She points at the building across the street.

He can't even look at the place.

CONTINUED:

Her tears come, and she shakes her head.

CONTINUED:

He has stung her. The tears are in her throat.         She has

to take a moment, but she pushes through to say

quietly...

And she turns and walks away. He watches her go, angry,

scared and sorry for what he said. He takes a few steps

after her, wanting to call out and to stop her. We see

him almost call to her. He is coming apart, watching

her, needing her so much, but unable to call out.

He is shaky. He takes a glance at that building, then

away. He stares after Sharon -- but she's out of sight

now. He steels himself, then looks across the street

again at that building.

He is desperately afraid. He stares at the building a

long while. He begins to cross the street. He makes

fists to keep from shaking. He walks to the entrance.

EXT. BUILDING - DAY

This is the "Wellston Memorial Chapel and Mausoleum."

The sign is on one of the brick pillars. The iron gate

is open. He can't walk in there. He just can't. He

walks away quickly, as if escaping.

EXT. POLICE BUILDING PARKING LOT - NEXT DAY

The new shift    of cops is heading for its cars -- Sharon

and Robby, Ray    and Sanchez, others. The mood is relaxed,

teasing talk,    but Sharon is way down. She tries to push

her mood away    and tough through it.

CONTINUED:

There is a scattering of laughter -- almost by rote -- as

Sharon enters her car without even the hint of a smile.

Robby notices. She just punches up the CAD monitor, all

business. Our TRUMPET MUSIC comes in, aching now, and

takes us into...

INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

She is exercising on the machine, sliding into her

crunches, fast and furious, but all the pain and sorrow

is in her eyes, and in a moment she just stops. The

TRUMPET MUSIC KEEPS GOING ON through this. She looks

over at the phone.

INT. CATCH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

We PAN OVER Bob-the-Dog, watching something. We see a

few scattered sheets of music lying about, hearing

RUSTLING, and we ARRIVE AT Catch, seated on the floor,

shuffling through a stack of sheet music, driven, looking

for something. The PHONE RINGS. He ignores it. He is

opening up each chart of music, shaking it out,

searching.

Sharon's voice comes on his machine, almost hollow with

sorrow.

He keeps searching, seeming to not even    listen. The

MACHINE CLICKS OFF. He shakes the next     music chart and

something falls out. He stares at this     piece of paper,

picks it up, slowly turns it over. It     is a picture of

himself, a man blowing a horn, drawn in    crayon by a four

or five-year-old. Catch stares at this     with a depth that

goes on forever, as the MUSIC ENDS.

EXT. STREET - NEXT DAY

Sharon and Robby are rolling to a stop in a strip mall

parking lot, exiting their car. No rush. She's still

very downbeat. As they walk from the car, he keeps

glancing at her, concerned for her.

She puts up a hand to brush all the words away. She

can't talk about it. She pushes through it by doing the

work.

They walk on, but as Sharon reaches the sidewalk, a

little child, three years old or so, toddles out the door

of a shop. A SKATEBOARDER is rattling along, and Sharon

makes a grab for the child, taking his arm gently...

... and pulling him to safety as the Skateboarder passes

by shouting...

And now the WORRIED MOTHER is emerging from the shop...

She picks up her boy, walks back into the shop. Sharon

stands there -- as it all blooms inside of her, rocks

her, really, this little act, evoking Catch, who he is,

what he said and what he means to her. Robby is a few

steps ahead, waiting for her, but she can't move yet,

looking around her now at the people walking among the

shops and cafes. She picks one. She catches the eyes.

She gives a brief smile. The smile is answered, shyly,

kindly, the person moves on.

She doesn't move for a moment.    Then she turns to Robby.

CONTINUED:

Robby looks at her, then nods, giving her this.

They walk back to the car.

EXT. UPSCALE RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

We see Sharon walking quickly from her police car to the

front of Mrs. Chu's home. Robby waits in the unit.

EXT. CHU HOME - DAY

Sharon walks under that covered portico to the front

door, but before she rings the bell, a voice startles her

a bit.

Mrs. Chu emerges from the shadows of the portico, rolling

her wheelchair toward Sharon. She has a smile for her --

but with some reserve.

Sharon nods, very held back.        She gestures toward the

wheelchair self-consciously.

CONTINUED:

Sharon stares a moment, begins with some of her tough

cover in place, over her emotions.

Elanora is a bit defensive now.

CONTINUED:

Elanora's look darkens and she begins to shake her head

in worry.

CONTINUED:

Sharon is shaken by this, realizing, crumbling a bit as

Mrs. Chu goes on.

Elanora takes a breath, acknowledging how upset she is.

Sharon, battered by the truth of this, is totally exposed

now, realizing, admitting.

CONTINUED:

Elanora sighs, looking at her, and her anger drains away,

studying Sharon's misery.

She shakes her head at Sharon's tears, her warmth showing

now, liking this girl.

Sharon stares, without much hope. She puts out her hand

to touch Elanora's, to say goodbye. Elanora takes her

hand and holds on a moment, staring into the girl, with

strength. Sharon nods and walks off, dark and sad.

Elanora watches her go.

INT. SHARON'S APARTMENT - DAY

It's the next day, and Sharon is preparing to go to her

parents' renewal of vows. She is at the bottom -- with

Catch gone from her life -- but she is doing her best to

go through with this.

We START ON a table, looking at the invitation and next

to that is a wrapped gift. We hear Sharon moving about,

see her nervous, half-dressed, speaking to herself. In

the b.g. we hear our TRUMPET-BASED MUSIC. Very soulful.

CONTINUED:

She checks the mirror again, doesn't like the look,

starts undressing, comes back to the table with the gift

on it, wonders if she should add more decoration to the

box. She does, and as the trumpet plays on we --

SHARON

dressed differently, re-wrapping the gift and then --

SHARON

dressed differently, rewrapping it again and then --

SHARON

sitting still in a chair, holding the gift on her lap,

looking at the clock, nervous, scared, sad.

EXT. STREET - DAY (SAME DAY)

Catch is walking down a commercial street -- no Bob-the-

dog, no strolling gait. He is focused, deep-eyed, on a

mission of some kind. Our MUSIC CONTINUES over this and

on into...

EXT. STREET - DAY

The MUSIC CONTINUES over Sharon driving to the church,

parking, taking a deep breath, exiting the car. There is

no one else outside the church. The ceremony has already

begun. She's planned it that way. She enters the church

as the MUSIC FADES OUT.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

As Sharon comes in quietly. The church is not full, but

perhaps 50 people sit in the front pews, watching the

ceremony at the altar: The priest, Mr. and Mrs. Pogue,

altar boys. Sharon moves forward and slips into a pew a

few back from the altar. The slight disturbance of

people sliding over to let her in causes a few people to

glance over.

CONTINUED:

One of them is Kathy. They trade a brief, nervous nod.

Then Kathy whispers to her husband...

We see Larry grow tense and angry.

Larry doesn't look at Sharon. The little boy, looking

fine in a tiny suit and tie, and being bored, leans to

look at his aunt.

Sharon and Larry, Jr. trade a look.     She winks, then

settles back in her pew, watches.

ON ALTAR

We get our first   look at Sharon's FATHER, Carl Pogue, 62.

Standing beside   his wife, a rather big, stolid guy, taken

with the moment,   both he and his wife emotional over

this. He wears    a hearing aid. The priest is speaking.

ON SHARON

watching with a mix of feelings as the mass continues and

the vows are renewed, the priest reciting the rituals.

EXT. STREET - DAY

The PRIEST'S VOICE from the church plays over this scene,

invoking the blessings, saying the prayers of the mass as

we watch Catch continuing his mission, slowing his steps

now and pausing at the entrance to the Welston Memorial

Chapel. He hesitates. We see the price he's paying and

the determination. He walks through the gate.

EXT. CHAPEL GROUNDS - DAY

He walks into a courtyard of several small buildings in a

garden setting -- all red brick and ivy, fountains and

flowers. He is fighting his way through this, moving

closer to one of the buildings. He is nearly alone on

the chapel grounds, and, as he reaches the sheltered wall

of this building, he is alone.

CONTINUED:

This is a wall   of bronze vaults within the bricks, and on

each vault is   a plaque -- a name. His breath shivers in

his body as he   struggles to lift his eyes. Slowly, his

gaze comes to   rest on a name: "LAMBERT."

As he stares, the PRIEST'S VOICE from Sharon's church

FADES OUT, and we are left with silence. Catch is

shaky,. He takes a step closer to the wall, to the name,

to them -- and he tries to speak, but can't. He tries

again -- his voice intimate, just above a whisper at

first.

He fishes a piece of paper out of his pocket. His hand

is shaking as he reads a number off the paper.

He puts the paper away.

We --

FLASHBACK - INT. VAN

to that minute and, for once, we go in order and     play out

each piece of it. We see Catch driving the van,      his wife

ANNIE beside him. His son Chet is in back with      his

grandparents, Elanora and her husband. The boy      is a bit

whiny, pouty.

We INTERCUT the flashback WITH --

CATCH

at the grave, struggling through this.

We see   Annie and Catch both glance back toward Chet, and

we get   present sound in this FLASHBACK scene as Catch and

Annie   both say, "What's the matter? Hm? Aww." And then

Annie   looks out the window and turns to Catch and -- we

CUT TO   Catch at the grave, his eyes filling.

In the FLASHBACK we see Annie turn to him again, and this

time we hear her say, softly...

We GO TO Catch at the grave, fighting tears.

Back in the FLASHBACK, we see Annie reach around as

Elanora hands Chet to her. Then we're BACK at the grave

and INTERCUTTING so that we see Catch speaking through

his tears and we also see this tender moment played out

in the van.

CONTINUED:

Catch stares at the grave, in tears, as the rest of that

minute now plays out, punishing him. It lasts only about

three seconds: a bus out of control, headlights suddenly

glaring through the windshield, Catch turning the wheel,

BRAKES SCREAMING, PEOPLE SCREAMING -- and then it's over.

And Catch has been battered by the memory, and is

weeping, but has not looked away. He is still staring at

the name of his family, and he is able to say, in a

broken voice...

He steps forward and puts his hand on the plaque, rests

it there. We STAY ON this, then in a moment, we...

INT. CHURCH - DAY

The renewal of vows is over, and Sharon is standing in

the aisle, nervous and not sure what to do. Guests are

up and milling about, many leaving the church. "See you

at the house." "See you at the party." Etc. A

PHOTOGRAPHER is setting a group shot at the front of the

church. Mr. and Mrs. Pogue, Larry and Kathy and the

little boy...

Out of the milling crowd comes Sharon, taking a breath

and braving it, walking up there, speaking quietly.

The Photographer turns to her, wondering.

CONTINUED:

We see the family shift so that Larry and his family are

on one side of the parents. Sharon follows the

Photographer's gesture to stand at the other side, beside

her Mother. Her Father has not looked at her. The photo

is taken. Sharon now turns to her mom and dad. This is

difficult, the strain is thick in the air.

The Father speaks to her, his voice not hard, but flat,

not warm either. No smile.

He nods, then turns to greet well-wishers. Sharon is

left alone by the drifting away of the family, but one

old couple greets her, the older woman (Mrs. Vander)

wearing her new blue dress, her HUSBAND beaming beside

her.

Sharon moves off toward a side exit, trying to catch up

with Larry and his family.

EXT. SIDE OF CHURCH - DAY

As Larry and his family exit -- and Sharon comes out of

the church, calling ahead.

CONTINUED:

He starts to just walk on, ignoring her, but Kathy takes

the little boy and walks ahead, with a look at Larry, at

Sharon.

ON SHARON AND LARRY

They nod to a few passing guests. Then they're alone.

His nose is still bandaged, but less so, anger and

betrayal in his eyes.

She stops herself, catching her rush toward the old

anger. She goes calmer, deeper, even sad.

She hands him something. It is the Polaroid photo. He

looks at it, surprised. They lock eyes. She speaks

softly.

And she walks off toward the parking lot.

INT. POGUE HOME - DAY

We're in the midst of the party. We see Sharon drifting

a bit, a hello here and there. She feels out of place.

CONTINUED:

Though the home and yard are thick with people, there is

some tension, especially in the core group -- all who

know about the estrangement of Sharon. Now and then a

nervous glance from her mother is directed at Sharon, or

a hostile glance from Larry.

Sharon passes the videographer, who is pointing light,

camera and microphone at the Vanders -- having them put

their good wishes on tape. She smiles, then looks over

and sees her Father across the room. He is alone. She

steels herself and heads his way. He makes eye contact,

then averts his look. She is approaching him, about to

speak, when he walks up to some friends and starts joking

with them, leaving Sharon hurt, humiliated.

Her mother has seen this and comes to her, speaking

quietly, nervously.

She sighs, pushing through her hurt to say...

Some joy is allowed to surface in her Mother's face.

Her Mother's look clouds a little, nervous again.

CONTINUED:

And she walks away. Sharon's eyes follow her, surprised

and thoughtful. She watches her Mother approach her

Father and straighten his crooked tie. Then Kathy is

moving toward Sharon. Sharon turns to her and they both

speak quietly -- at the same time.

Then they smile sad smiles.       Kathy gestures to her face,

the faded bruise.

They smile wryly again.

They stare, and Sharon gives her a hug, Kathy returns it.

ON LARRY

We see Larry, across the room, notice this hug. He keeps

his expression intact for the group he's in, but we see a

flare of anger in his eyes.

ON SHARON

moving across the living room.

She sees Larry Jr. sitting alone and goes to him, sits

beside the child -- who looks sad.

They look about the room.

The woman sips her drink, and the boy smiles, getting

into it.

The boy is suddenly swooped up, lifted away by his

father. Larry puts the boy down near the door.

CONTINUED:

He turns to Sharon.

Then he turns to the crowd, smiling a smile without

humor, speaking loudly.

There is some nervous laughter, people watching them now.

Sharon is angry and embarrassed, keeping her voice low.

The crowd around them is all staring now -- as he turns

back to Sharon.

In the hushed tension that follows, a GLASS falls and

SHATTERS, and more people quiet down and stare. Sharon

looks at her glaring brother, looks at her Mother

nervously picking up the broken glass -- no support

there. Angry and shaken, she turns to the door.

She walks to the door, opens    it, starts to leave, starts

to close the door behind her,    and she stops, take takes a

breath, battling hard against    the old patterns of hurt

and anger. She looks at that     nearly-closed door. She

pushes it open and walks back    in.

We see a surprised and angry look from Larry, a worried

look from her Mother -- but Sharon is moving through the

crowd, searching until she sees her Father. She heads

toward him. He sees her and walks into the kitchen,

avoiding her. She follows him. We see Larry and his

Mother exchange an anxious look -- and then move toward

the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Sharon enters, waits, others are leaving the kitchen,

leaving her alone with her dad, but he starts to follow

them.

CONTINUED:

He acts as if he just noticed her.

She gestures toward his hearing aid.

He absently touches the device.

But the kitchen door opens. We hear the party going on

out there. Larry and Sharon's Mother enter, her Mother

looking at her husband and back to her daughter, very

frightened. Larry is raging in a near whisper.

She turns to her dad.

Larry advances on her.

And she turns on him in a fury that halts him.

CONTINUED:

She turns back to her father.

The question's out, and she's totally exposed now -- and

the silence that follows breaks her heart. She nods

toward his hearing aid. Her voice is close to a whisper,

thick with tears.

He can't finish it.

She takes the blow and doesn't crumble, only her eyes

show the depth of the pain. She speaks quietly, softly.

CONTINUED:

And she leaves, brushing past Larry and her Mother.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Sharon comes out of the kitchen, blinking   back tears.

The party goes on around her, oblivious.    She stops on

her way to the door because she sees the   video crew

moving, hunting the next guest -- and she   makes a

decision and walks toward them, stops in   the light, faces

the camera.

As they roll tape, people turn, gather, watch.       Sharon

speaks over a torrent of emotions.

We see her family coming out of the kitchen and walking

into this, surprised, stopping still.

HER FATHER

watching this. Her Mother is near panic, Larry staring

hard, Kathy wondering. INTERCUT their reactions

during...

SHARON

CONTINUED:

She hands the microphone back and walks away as the

surprised looks, the deep looks of her Father, Mother,

Larry and Kathy follow her. She walks to the front door

and leaves.

EXT. POGUE HOUSE - DAY

Sharon exits    and starts to walk away. She sees Larry Jr.

look up from    his play. He smiles at her. She returns

the smile --    it means a lot to her, and she walks on. As

she reaches    the gate, she notices something across the

street that    halts her. She stops still, surprised and so

pleased.

HER POV

Catch is there, waiting near her car, watching her now.

BACK TO SCENE - FULL SHOT

as Sharon walks to him, so glad he's there, needing him

-- but still not sure of what he's feeling about her,

until she gets close and sees his eyes and the way he

opens his arms -- and they embrace, and she holds on

tight, eyes closed.

CONTINUED:

They break the embrace, still holding on, searching each

other's eyes.

In a moment, he gestures toward the Pogue house.

She stares a moment more, still together.

She can only look away, not wanting to cry.

She stares at him again. Her throat fills with tears,

mouth is trembling a bit. She starts quietly, finally,

with nothing held back -- but this is not anger as much

as mourning.

The tears come, and she doesn't fight them, emptying the

old, old wound, speaking through her weeping now. The

first time we've seen her cry.

CONTINUED:

He raises his hands to her face, places a palm gently on

each cheek, and she covers his hands with her own and

closes her eyes. They remain that way awhile. In a

moment he lightly kisses her forehead. There is a depth

to his words...

She opens her eyes, staring deep into       his. He has said

it all -- as it is and as it will be.        She smiles a bit

through her tears and nods. He puts        an arm around her

shoulder and holds her tight against       him as they walk to

her car. She puts an arm around his        waist.

They reach the car, and she unlocks it, gets in behind

the wheel as Catch gets into the passenger seat.

INT. CAR - DAY

Sharon just sits behind the wheel, still shaky from

crying. She puts the key in the ignition, but doesn't

move -- no longer sad, but drained now. He watches her.

In a moment, he gets out of the car.

EXT. CAR - FULL SHOT

Catch comes around to Sharon's window. She rolls the

window down, concerned, wondering what he's doing. Is he

leaving? But he reaches for her door and opens it and

says without a fuss...

She stares a long moment,    realizing,    but also making no

fuss about it as she gets    out of the    car, walks around

and enters the passenger    side. They     close the car doors.

Catch STARTS the CAR and    drives them    away. Drives them

home.

