As the music picks up the tune of The Marseillaise, the

airplane flies away through the exploding fireworks...

The words "The End" appear on the screen.

From the moment they parked the car onwards, we become

absorbed by what's happening around the screening of end of

this film.

Behind the screen, we've seen the actor who plays the hero -

his name is George Valentin - closely studying the reactions

of the audience. He was standing close to his dog, motioning

to it not to make a noise. The dog's name is Jack.

In the same area, we've also seen the lead actress. Her name

is Constance Gray. She too looks tense and is latched onto

the arm of a pleasant-looking man who is chewing anxiously on

a cigar. The man looks rich, but a little weak. He's surely

the producer.

In the house, much of the audience is open-mouthed, excited,

immobile and often wide-eyed.

In the pit, a symphony orchestra plays to accompany the film.

(9) Now that the film is ending, and the last note is

sounding, the cast anxiously awaits the audience's verdict,

which, after two or three seconds of silence, bursts into

thunderous applause, to the great joy of the actor and the

people around him, especially the actress and the producer,

who kiss each other on the lips.

Two theater hands bring down the curtain.

(10) The lights come on. George Valentin comes onto the stage

and acknowledges the audience, they are cheering for him. He

is so happy he dances a few tap steps to express his joy then

he acknowledges the orchestra before finally motioning to

someone in the wings to join him. Jack the dog trots over in

response. The crowd laughs and cheers, George waves to the

dog, Jack waves back then waves at the audience, the people

are loving it!

In the wings, Constance is fuming with rage, but on stage,

George is pretending with his fingers to pull at the dog, who

fakes death. Thunderous applause again.

Behind the actress, the producer can't hold back a smile, and

this enrages the actress still more.

Suddenly, George, hamming it up, remembers something he'd

forgotten, and asks someone from the other side of the wings

to join him. It's Constance. She comes over, smiling to the

audience, and says something to George with a smile.

Title card: I'll get you for that.

She waves, but we can tell that her smile is set between her

teeth. She isn't feeling comfortable. George motions firing a

gun with his fingers, but she does not fall down, merely

casts him a "very funny" glance. George looks at his fingers,

not understanding why they don't work anymore then mimes

throwing them away behind him, as though they've become

useless. Constance stalks back off into the wings in

annoyance, but the audience is ecstatic. Once in the wings,

the actress sticks up her middle finger at George, and

exaggeratedly mouths so he can read her lips: "Put this up

your ass." George, grinning broadly, responds by clapping his

hands in applause, then leaves the stage, executing a few

more dance steps as he does so. The audience is delighted.

As he comes off stage, George gets soundly told off by

Constance, but, still grinning, he motions towards the

audience who are still asking for more. The producer,

although delighted by the successful reception, makes a weak

attempt to calm the actress down. As for George, he returns

to the stage, the audience roars. He pretends to want to

leave the stage, and mimes bumping into an invisible wall

just as he's leaving the stage. George holds his nose, the

audience goes wild, Constance gets even madder, and while

George carries on clowning about, the producer too breaks

into a beaming smile. He's probably realized that George has

the audience on his side... Constance, furious, storms off. She

is followed by the producer who is trying to placate her,

although it looks like he's got his work cut out for him.

Outside, we are in front of a typically American movie theater

decked out with all the accessories of a grand premiere. The

entrance is lit up, there are crowds gathered on the sidewalk,

cops are guarding the red carpet with a cordon of bodies, etc.

George comes out, causing the crowds, mainly young women, to

press forwards - and the photographers' flashes to spark into

life. The cops are struggling to maintain control of the

situation as George poses for the photographers and waves at

his many fans.

In the crowd, a young woman right at the front is staring at

him in rapture. She drops her bag and, as she bends to pick it

up, a swell in the crowd pushes her underneath the arms of the

policeman in front of her, out of the crowd and into George.

She stares at him, more in love than ever, delighted to be

there. The police wait for someone to give orders. George

doesn't quite know what to do. Nobody moves. The young woman

finally bursts out laughing, which, after a moment of shock,

causes George to laugh too, thus placating the cops and tacitly

signaling to the photographers that they can take pictures of

the scene. The flashes seem to lend the woman self-confidence

who, in a very carefree manner, begins to clown about in front

of them. George is delighted at the sight, by the whole scene

and, realizing this, the young woman steals a kiss. Flash. The

image becomes static, then dissolves into the printed picture

on the front page of "The Hollywood Reporter" newspaper, along

with three other pictures of the scene and the headline WHO'S

THAT GIRL?

The very same newspaper is being read by an elegant woman

sitting at a sumptuous breakfast table. We are in the large

dining room of an ultra-luxurious Hollywood villa. All around

her are magnificent furniture, superb paintings and objets

d'art, including a beautiful trio of monkeys, one hiding its

eyes, one with hands clasped to its ears and the third

obscuring its mouth. George comes into the room and kisses

his wife. She responds with cold indifference. You could cut

the atmosphere with a knife. The woman hands George the

newspaper. He knows what's up but tries to laugh it off. She

doesn't find it funny, is as cold as stone and barely looks

at him. She is obviously extremely annoyed with him. George

picks up his dog and puts it on the table. Jack drops his

head to one side and his big eyes implore seem to implore her

forgiveness. It's the exact expression of someone asking to

be loved, but Doris is implacable. She gets up, walks away

and does not turn back. Left on his own, George has a closed

expression on his face. He seems unhappy to have hurt his

wife's feelings. Then he realizes that Jack is on the table

in a ridiculous pose, and signals to him to get down. The dog

obeys. George looks at the paper, the cause of his problems.

Thirteen white letters placed on a hillside.

HOLLYWOODLAND.

Below, in town, a bus.

Inside the full bus is the young woman from the day before. Her

name is Peppy Miller. She is proudly holding "The Hollywood

Reporter" with her face on the front page, and is more or less

discreetly making suggestive glances, hoping that someone

recognizes her. But the people around her - from working and

middle class backgrounds - are visibly on their way to work and

remain impervious to her game.

She - carefully - puts the paper away in her bag, in which four

or five copies of the newspaper are already carefully tucked

away, then gets off the bus at the next stop.

She goes through the main gates of Kinograph Studios, and

heads towards where they hire extras.

In a courtyard, fifty-odd people are waiting, some sitting on

wooden crates, others standing. There are mums with kids,

guys with animals, men dressed as cowboys, etc. Peppy is

among them, sitting next to a man of about sixty who is

dressed in a highly stylized fashion. His job is obviously

that of a butler. Peppy proudly shows him the picture in the

newspaper. The man leans to take a closer look, unfolds the

newspaper, sees the headline, smiles and then folds it back

up again and returns it to Peppy text-side-up, highlighting

the headline: Who's that girl ?

Peppy is a bit annoyed to have been put in her place, but

deep down she knows he's right. Nobody knows who she is. She

puts the newspaper away.

A man who visibly works for the studio, some assistant or

other, comes into the courtyard, climbs on a crate and makes

an announcement.

Title card: Contemporary film!   Five girls who can dance!

All the men who had pressed forwards turn on their heels,

leaving the assistant surrounded only by women. The man says

something to one girl, who begins to dance. He motions to her

that it's ok and she heads off towards the wardrobe section.

He does the same with a second girl and she gets hired too.

Then it's Peppy's turn. She puts a lot of energy into a few

top class tap steps, impressing the guy to such an extent

that he smiles admiringly then signals that she's hired.

Full of self-assurance that her lucky day has come, Peppy

heads off towards wardrobe too; swinging, her hips as she

pauses in front of the butler.

There's bad feeling between them, as though neither wanted

this sudden conflict, but like it had always been there,

tangible. Everyone on the set seems to be waiting for Zimmer

to react, but to their surprise, after a long moment of

hesitation, he walks away without saying a thing. Peppy looks

at George gratefully, smiling, but seems a little preoccupied

as though she might have made a mistake.

Everyone on set gets back to work.

They're about to start shooting. The director is showing

George what he has to do. The scene is happening in a cabaret

restaurant. George has to cross a dance floor, but each time he

is stopped by a guy ringing a bell to signal it is time to

change dancing partner. George finds himself dancing with

Peppy one moment, and in the arms of a very fat man the next,

the director finds the gag hysterical. The scene is shot

several times from three different angles. Each time, George

dances with Peppy, and, each time, the nature of their rapport

changes. To begin with, they are happy and laughing, but then,

with time, less so. Then they become embarrassed, and then

things get worse. We start the sequence again and again, to the

sound of the clapperboard counting the number of takes, but the

eroticism between them is the only thing that stands out from

the scene, every thing else goes unnoticed. Ultimately, no

flirting or suggestiveness has gone on, just the very obvious

beginning of feelings between them that they find disturbing.

It's probably love.

Later on, in the dressing room corridor, Peppy, holding an

envelope, goes up to George's door. She knocks, waits for a

reply, then enters. There's nobody there. She hesitates, not

sure whether to leave or stay...

Finally, she goes into the room and places the envelope

addressed to George Valentin on the dresser. Then she

attentively looks around the dressing room. She looks at the

objects and photos and notices, hanging from a coat stand,

George's jacket on a hanger, and his hat which sits on a hook

above it. The way the clothes are disposed looks like George's

silhouette, except that the clothes are empty. She goes over,

strokes the jacket and little by little brings George to life

through his clothes.

She puts her right hand into the sleeve and touches her own

waist. As it's George's sleeve, she makes it look like his arm

has come to life, as though George has come to life. Even more

so since her left hand is stroking the jacket as though George

were inside. She takes pleasure from the embrace and, when

George comes into the room, she slowly removes her hand without

any rush. George sees her, they look at each other. He closes

the door but doesn't go over to her, instead going over to the

mirror. He looks at her, she at him... He motions to her to

approach. She does. He stares at her face for a while before he

speaks.

Title card: If you want to be an actress, you need to have

something no one else has.

He takes a make-up pencil and draws a beauty spot above her

upper lip. She looks at herself in the mirror and smiles. She

likes it. She turns towards him and, quite naturally, folds

into his arms. The dog watches them curiously with its head

leaning to one side. They are probably about to kiss when

George's chauffeur comes into the room and catches them.

George swiftly moves aside and there is a moment of

discomfort. The chauffeur unwraps a parcel and takes out a

large and beautiful pearl necklace. George is intrigued by

the necklace, and turns away from Peppy. She understands that

George has his own life, that their embrace was just a stolen

moment and slowly leaves, looking back at George as she does

so. He does not look at her. She leaves the room. Once he has

studied and necklace and is satisfied, George turns back

towards Peppy but she is no longer there. The chauffeur exits

the room.

When he is alone, George looks at himself in the mirror. His

expression shows that he things he is the stupidest man in

the world. He mimes shooting himself in the temple with his

fingers, but it's the dog which collapses into its play-dead

pose.

The next morning, he's having breakfast with his wife. The

atmosphere is still dreadful but this time he's not making any

effort either. He disdainfully watches Doris eat. She is

cutting up strawberries using a knife and fork. George watches

her, smiles and continues to watch. Except it's not Doris he's

watching. Instead it's Peppy who's tucking into her food and

talking and laughing vivaciously. George is with her with an

expression of love on his face. He's laughing with her when,

suddenly, reality bites. He's still sitting opposite Doris,

and she's staring at him because she doesn't understand why he

is laughing. She visibly finds him ridiculous. He stops

laughing and breakfast carries on as normal.

We see several quick sequences which indicate time passing:

Breakfasts with George and Doris where the atmosphere is

increasingly dreadful. Doris scribbles on photos of George in

the press, draws on moustaches, large spectacles, etc.

Short extracts of George in various films, in which he portrays

a pirate, then a cowboy, then William Tell, etc. We also see

him in "Someday in July" in the sequence he shot with Peppy and

the fat male dancer.

Movie-goers reacting to the films, but the way the images are

edited - cut with breakfast images - could mean they are

reacting to them too.

Among the audience is Peppy Miller. She's trying to

concentrate fully on the film and is pushing away the handsome

young man she's with, who is trying to kiss her. We see her

later, at the movies again, but this time alone.

We see her playing some bit parts, maid, dancer, etc. Her roles

seem to get a little bigger. We notice that she now wears the

beauty spot that she'll keep forever.

Her name climbs up the ranks in the title sequences of films,

until it appears on its own.

We see her signing a contract in a small office, she seems

happy.

INT. OFFICE - GEORGE/ZIMMER/CONTRACT - DAY

George signs a big contract with Zimmer as photographers take

pictures. He smiles broadly, whereas Zimmer looks like his

smile is a little forced.

The date appears on the screen: 1929

INT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - TAVERN DECOR - DAY

George, dressed as a musketeer, is sword-fighting with three

middle-ages thugs in a tavern. He kills two of them, but

unfortunately loses his epee when fighting the third. But when

the third man attacks, George merely dodges with a sleight of

body and puts his attacker out of action with a right hook!

Calm restored, he smiles and waves in brotherly fashion to a

mysterious man who is trying to hide underneath his long cape.

The man stands up, throws aside his cape and reveals himself to

be... Napoleon! He puts his bicorne hat back on and warmly

thanks an astonished George. Napoleon says something to him

and George respectfully bows, walks away from him still bowing

then turns and runs. Once out of the decor, he bumps right into

a worried-looking Zimmer who is followed by his loyal

assistants. George is in a playful mood. Zimmer tells him:

Title Card: I want to show you something.     Right now.

George seems astonished that Zimmer is leaving the set and

not filming, but agrees. Napoleon walks past them very

imperially and gestures royally to a technician to bring him

a chair. The technician doesn't miss the chance to remind the

man that he is only an extra, and not Napoleon.

INT. SCREENING ROOM - STUDIO - DAY

Zimmer, his guards, and George - still dressed as a musketeer -

come into a screening room in which a dozen or so very serious-

looking people are waiting. They sit down and Zimmer, very

proudly and self-confidently, gestures to an assistant who

passes on the message to the projectionist. The room goes dark.

The screening begins.

INT. VOICE TEST STUDIO - DAY

On screen we see a card that indicates it's a sound shooting

test for a talking scene. Then Constance appears, the actress

from the spy film. She's standing in front of a mic and she

tests it, delighted to be there. Cut. We see her again, the

microphone has disappeared and she acts out a scene. It's a

monologue. Her acting is terrible, very theatrical, but the

audience can hear her. It is however, awful.

(31) In the screening room, the audience seems stunned by

what they see/hear. They are fascinated. They then begin to

congratulate each other and slap Zimmer on the back. Zimmer's

pride seems to grow by the second.

George, who at first seemed very surprised, slowly begins a

snigger which gradually has become a belly laugh when the

actress earnestly ends her monologue.

When the lights come up, George is laughing uncontrollably

way beyond the bounds of mere mockery as his sincerity is

obvious. The people present are embarrassed, and Zimmer is

deeply put out. George, still laughing, leaves the room,

waving an apology with his hands as he goes, but also

pointing to the screen to explain why he's laughing. Zimmer

feels even more humiliated. Fade to black on his face.

We're back with George in his dressing room. He's removing his

make up. He moves some ordinary object and the object, as he

moves it, makes a noise. We hear the noise it makes. Really

hear it. It's the first time we've heard a sound that comes

from within the film itself. One second later, George realizes

that the object made a noise. He moves it again, the object

makes a noise again. George is worried. He tries another object

and obtains noise again. His dog barks and we hear it! He gets

up (chair makes a noise) and says something to his dog, but no

sound comes out of his mouth when he speaks. He realizes

this... Panic sets in, he turns to the mirror and tries talking

again, but still no sound comes out. Not understanding what's

happening, the feeling of panic fully blossoms and he flees his

dressing room!

Noisy, laughing dancers pass in the corridor, others are

talking or shouting and even if we can't make out what they are

saying, they are all making sound. George tries to talk to them

but his voice remains silent. One dancer, seeing his fright,

bursts into throaty laughter. George rushes through the

milling crowd the sound of which is becoming increasingly

loud...

...and bursts out into the courtyard of the studio that is now

suddenly deserted and silent. In front of him a feather eddies

slowly to the ground, carried by the breeze. It finally lands,

making a completely abnormal and disproportionate noise like

that of a building crashing to the ground in slow motion.

George screams, but again his cry is silent.

George awakes with a start! He's in bed and is having trouble

shaking off his nightmare.

The film continues as normal: in other words, silent.

His wife is sleeping by his side. He gets up, taking care not

to make a sound.

George calms down as he sits in the living room, alone in the

darkness. Jack, still sleepy, has just curled into a ball

next to him to fall back to sleep. George smiles and gives

him a pat.

Driven by his chauffeur, George crosses town heading for the

studios.

EXT. KINOGRAPH STUDIOS - DAY

The car goes through the studio gates. There's nobody there.

George gets out. He goes into the courtyard. There's nobody

there either.

He goes into the studio and heads for the set. There is still

no one about. He doesn't understand and goes back outside.

Outside in the deserted courtyard, a feather eddies towards

the ground, carried by the breeze. George is watching it drift

to the ground when suddenly a gust of wind sends it soaring

back into the sky. George follows it with his eyes and notices

a man crossing between two sets. He looks like some kind of set

hand or assistant; a working man in any case. George calls to

him. The two men draw close and George asks him what's

happening. The man takes the day's newspaper out of his pocket

and hands it to George before walking off. George reads:

Kinograph Studios stop all silent productions to work

exclusively on talkies.

Despite the secretary's attempts to stop him, a furious George

storms into Zimmer's office.

Zimmer is in a meeting with some men. They are probably

engineers in view of the attention being given to the plans

lying on the desk. Everyone is surprised by George's rude

entry. The engineers seem embarrassed, but Zimmer smiles and

politely asks them to leave, as though asking for their

understanding. As they head for the door, some of them drop

their heads so as not to meet George's eyes, whereas others

look him right between the eyes but without any love lost. This

exchange causes a strange, unpleasant feeling within him. He

seems embarrassed. It's perhaps due to the rudeness of his

eruption into the office, but it's more likely due to the looks

he's been given. For the first time for ages, he has not been

looked at how a star is normally looked at - with respect,

desire and admiration - but like any ordinary man is looked at

or, worse still, how a superfluous man is looked at.

As George realizes that his status has just changed, Zimmer

invites him to sit down. Then speaks to him, in a friendly

manner.

Title card: We belong to another age, you and I, George.

Nowadays, the world talks.

He talks to him, looks a little embarrassed, while George

takes it on the chin, not knowing how to respond.

Title card: People want to see new faces. Talking faces.

George reaches deep down into himself and makes an effort to

bring up a smile.

Title card: Paramount will be delighted. They still want me.

Zimmer responds with a pursing of the lips that is more

damning than any counter argument could be. As though he's

telling George he can always give it a go... George understands

what's happening. Zimmer is sorry.

Title card: I'm sorry. The public wants fresh blood. And the

public is never wrong.

George gets to his feet.

Title card: It's me the people want and it's my films they

want to see. And I'm going to give them to them.

Zimmer nods with another pursing of the lips, as though he

can't wait to see that. George seems very sure of himself.

Title card: I don't need you. Go make your talking movies.

I'm going to make them a beautiful film!

As George leaves in disgust, his eyes are drawn to an

advertising feature representing the "new faces of Kinograph

Studios". Among the medallion framed young portraits, George

recognizes that of Peppy Miller. He glances up at Zimmer.

Title card: Fresh blood...

The two men exchange a last glance, then George exits.

Outside he feels a few seconds of discouragement but, as he

meets the gaze of the engineers waiting in the secretary's

antechamber, he puffs up his chest and walks tall out of the

office.

Going down the stairs from the offices, he passes a laughing

Peppy who is accompanied by two young and charming men, perfect

specimens of America's golden youth. She is coming up, he is

going down. When she notices him, she stops, already one step

above of him. She has a beaming smile and is truly delighted to

see him. He is delighted too, although his mood is very

different.

Title card (him): How are you?

Title card (her): Fantastic! I've been given a lead role!

Isn't it wonderful?!

He nods, we see in his eyes that he's terribly happy for her.

They look at each other, she laughs.

Then she fumbles in her bag for something with which to note

down her telephone number on a piece of paper. It takes a

while and is a little chaotic, she apologizes, but he visibly

takes a lot of pleasure out of watching her. She finally gets

the number down and hands it to him, telling him to call her -

to really call her. In response he casts a glance over to the

young men waiting for her higher up the stairs, and she

bursts out laughing. She leans towards him to say something.

Title card: Gadgets!

She looks at him flirtatiously. Then she gestures again for

him to call her, and he nods, even though we think that he

probably will not do so. She leaves and he watches her go

before beginning his decent once more. Once at the top, she

turns back to call out to George, he too has turned to look.

She smiles at him, breaks into a few tap steps for old time's

sake, then blows him a kiss.

He catches the kiss with a smile, pretends to make it

disappear in his other hand like a magician, then shows her

the inside breast pocket of his jacket as proof that he's

keeping it safe and warm. She laughs loudly and goes on her

way. He watches her walk away with admiration in his eyes.

She vanishes and George's smile takes on a note of

melancholy, and then he leaves too.

George comes home. Doris is there scribbling on a magazine but

he takes no notice of her. When the dog jumps into his arms

however, he greets it affectionately. Doris is vexed.

A while later he's running Jack through his tricks when Doris

arrives.

Title card: We have to talk, George.

George smiles.

Title card: Or not.

She insists but he doesn't listen. He's with his dog. She

gets annoyed, he doesn't answer, she ends up throwing Jack.

George cannot forgive her for doing so, he looks at her in

disgust. She starts to cry.

Title card: I'm unhappy, George.

He answers without looking at her.

Title card: So are millions of other people, me for instance.

Thanks to a montage of shot frames, photos and press cuttings,

we see George begin making his film, the first clap of the

board that shows he's both the film's producer and director.

The film is called Tears of love, and it tells the tale of an

English adventurer - played by himself - accompanied by a young

woman, an old man who looks like a professor and who is

probably the father of the young woman and, lastly, an African

tribe represented as savages and whose humanity remains to be

proven.

We see George in the various stages of preparation: writing, re-

writing, directing, acting, signing a lot of checks, but also

leaving very early in the morning to set up shots with his

collaborators, etc. He looks fulfilled, like he truly believes

in what he's doing, despite the tiredness he's feeling. His dog

has a role in the film too, doing tricks. George looks very

happy, very committed. He takes a supple branch, feeds it

through the sleeves of a woman's blouse and, by holding the two

ends of the branch out in front of him, dances with the

imaginary woman. Everyone around him is happy and laughing.

He's not shooting a comedy, however, it's obviously a drama of

some sort from what we see of the set and the way the actors

play their role.

Then appear on screen the mock ups of posters, they are shown

on the set to George.

He chooses the one in which he is most prominent, it's a poster

depicting a cutesy melodrama and bears the release date

October 25th.

OMITTED

In the street, at the entrance to a movie theater, George sees

a large "Beauty Spot" film poster. The poster shows Peppy close

up, wearing a magnificent and jauntily positioned chapka over

one eye. She is incredibly stylish but in no way vampish, more

the image of a young comedy debut... George looks at her, Peppy

seems to be smiling at him. He smiles back. Then his smile

becomes strained. He's noticed something. The two theater

employees are sticking a banner over the poster that reveals

the release date of Beauty Spot - it's also October 25th.

Then we see advertising inserts and full page press articles

appearing one after the other, creating a montage of images

with a very 1920's feel. "Get some Peps with Peppy!" and a

close up on her smiling, mischievous face. "The girl next

door", "The girl you'll love to love" "Young and pretty", etc.

with a photo of Peppy each time, posters of the film and then,

everywhere, the face that it's a talking movie! Talking,

talking, talking!

As for George, his image is a lot more austere, the photographs

show him as very serious. And the captions are like: "I'm not a

muppet anymore, I'm an artist!"

We're in a smart restaurant. George has his back to the room

and is eating with his chauffeur. Peppy comes into the

restaurant and comes to sit just behind George. They are back

to back. She is with several young men, two of whom are

journalists and they are interviewing her.

Title card: Your first film doesn't come out until tomorrow

and yet you're already the new darling of Hollywood! How do

you explain that?

She starts by bursting into laughter, which draws George's

attention. He turns round to listen to the rest of Peppy's

answer.

Title card: I don't know, maybe it's because I talk. And

people hear me.

She continues talking, obviously happy that people are

interested in her. She doesn't see George smiling behind her.

Title card: People are sick to death of those old actors who

pull faces to make themselves understood.

She continues talking with the casual arrogance of youth.

Behind her, George's smile vanishes.

Title card: Anyway, it's normal for the young to take over

from the old, that's life. Make way for youth!

George is hurt. He gets up and, before he leaves, gestures

silently that if she wants his place all she has to do is

take it. She watches him leave and immediately regrets what

she's just said.

It's the day of the films' release, October 25th.

It's morning. George opens his front door. His chauffeur is

outside. The man's expression announces bad news. He's holding

the day's press. The huge headlines talk of a stock market

crash, a black Thursday, a catastrophe.

Dressed in a robe, George is on the telephone in the living

room. He nods. The atmosphere is stifling. He hangs up. His

chauffeur looks at him inquisitively. George replies as though

lost in thought:

Title card: It would seem that we're ruined.

The chauffeur takes it on the chin with as much reserve as he

can muster, but George continues.

Title card: That's the best case scenario...

He almost laughs - not so the chauffeur.

Now wearing a suit, George is sitting at his desk. Lying in

front of him are the front pages of newspapers reporting the

Crash. He looks for something on the inside pages of one paper

and reads. Next to a large picture of Peppy there's a review of

his own film, beginning "Tears of Love, Old and Boring". He

shuts the paper and searches for something in the drawer of his

desk. He takes out a piece of paper. It's the telephone number

that Peppy had scribbled down for him. He looks at it, moves

closer to the telephone, hesitates, looks at the paper again,

then puts the scrap of paper back in the drawer without making

the call.

Peppy awakes in bed with a start. She doesn't know what has

woken her up. She looks around, looks at the phone, seems

perplexed. Then a man's arm invites her to lie back down; she

does.

(56) Still at his desk, George gets up and goes to the

window. He seems lost in thought.

An extract from "Tears of Love" in which we see George, holding

the young woman in his arms, take part in a cliche-d African

dance with shields, spears and all the African accoutrements

attributed by Westerners at the time. George and the woman are

complacently watching the dance, when George says to the young

woman.

Title card: Let's go back, Norma. They've never seen a white

woman before and I don't want to take any risks.

There's hardly anyone in the theater. The people that are there

look bored more than anything. At the back smoking a cigarette,

George takes the failure on the chin.

One couple gets to their feet and leaves the theater. As the

man reaches George, he recognizes him and casts him a glance

that seems to say "goodness old chap this one's not up to

much..." George doesn't know what to say in reply.

Outside, George comes out still smoking his cigarette. On the

sidewalk, people are cheerfully waiting in line. George walks

up the line and comes to a movie house that's playing the

"Beauty Spot" talking movie. A huge poster depicts Peppy and

the people in the line seem excited and delighted to be going

to see the film. It's visibly a success. George takes it on the

chin.

Inside the car, behind the implacable chauffeur, George is

talking to himself, as though he's re-running the story in

his head and searching for what he might have done better, or

differently.

Once home, he finds a photo of himself on the floor. It has

been defaced with a scribbled moustache, spectacles and a big

nose. There's a note to him scribbled on the back. We read it

at the same time as him.

It's over, George. You've got a fortnight to collect your

souvenirs together and get out of the house.

Doris

P.S.: You should go see Beauty Spot, it's incredible.

George takes it on the chin and leaves, revealing behind him

the portrait of himself wearing a tuxedo, smiling and waving.

As for Peppy, she's in the theater, watching Tears of love.

She's with a handsome young man who seems bored.

George is wearing shorts and an explorer's hat. He is sinking

in sinking sand. The young woman is screaming and the dog

barking.

The Africans are panicking but there's nothing anyone can do.

George stops struggling, and looks deep into the eyes of the

young woman. He says gently:

Title card: Farewell, Norma.    I never loved you...

It's obvious he's only saying that so that she can forget him

and move on with her life, but it doesn't wash and the young

woman weeps all the more, terribly moved by this last

sacrifice on his part.

(63) In the balcony, Peppy is speechless and her face

impassive.

(64) On screen, George and the young women exchange a last

glance as George's face gradually sinks into the sand.

(63) Next to Peppy, the young man sits watching her. She sees

sad.

(64) On screen, George has disappeared into the mire. Only

one hand stays in the air for several seconds more in a

tortured pose, that of a dying man trying to hold on to the

wind.

(63) Peppy's companion seems to find the film far too long

and doesn't understand why they haven't already left.

(64) The hand has disappeared. The young woman is in a state

of shock, rigid with a look of horror on her face. She is no

doubt about to be put to certain death. The dog turns round

and walks off with head and tail lowered...

The End appears on the screen.

(63) Peppy seems moved. She is shaking her head from side to

side.

Evening has fallen on the town. It's raining. On the ground

lies an old page from a newspaper that bears a picture of

George. A man's feet trample the picture.

George is   at home. Two bottles are apparent and, obviously

drunk, he   is staring out the window. The projection of

raindrops   sliding down the window look like tears running down

his face.   And Jack's face too. George is pulled out of his

stupor as   he hears something.

He opens the door. It's Peppy. She immediately notices that

George is drunk. Her smile tenses a little.

Title card: I wanted to talk, I...

George looks at her. She continues.

Title card: I saw Tears of Love.

George nods, and answers.

Title card: And so you've come to get your money back?

She smiles stiffly, not knowing how to react.   He continues.

Title card: Too much face-pulling?

She stops smiling because it's not funny at all. It's bitter,

even. There's an embarrassed silence. Softly, she tries to

explain.

Title card: About last night...

She stops because George is not looking at her anymore. He's

watching the arrival of the young, smiling, handsome and

wholesome man who is with Peppy. George bears a melancholy

smile.

Title card: You're right. Make way for youth...

The young man shakes George's hand. He's obviously a nice

lad, and very polite.

Title card: I'm so happy to meet you. My Dad just loves you.

He says it very nicely, with no ulterior motive, but George

is cut to the quick. The comment wounds him and Peppy

notices. She cuts short the meeting by smiling and upping the

cheerfulness stakes, as though to kid George she hasn't

noticed any embarrassment or perceived anything that might

have shocked or hurt him during their encounter.

Title card: OK! Well, we'll be off now.   I'll call you soon.

Bye!

George smiles politely. She leaves, taking the handsome jock

with her. George watches them leave. As does his dog, who

sits with his head and ears hanging low as though very

disappointed. George watches Peppy walking away, then steps

forwards and sits down on the steps leading up to the house.

As she gets into the car, Peppy seems surly, unhappy even,

for the first time. She turns her back on her companion.

Title card: Take me home. I'd like to be alone.

George watches the car leave, then goes and sits on a bench

next to the front door. But the bench breaks and George finds

himself on the ground next to the dog. George remarks evenly

to Jack:

Title card: See, could be it just wasn't my day...

In the rain, a worker is taking down letters from the facade

of a theater. Of Tears of Love, only the word Tears remains.

Peppy is facing her mirror and putting her make up on. She

takes a break, looking a little sad. Someone (some kind of

assistant) opens the door to her dressing room and says

something like you need to hurry up. She nods and gets back

to work.

Alternate shots of three or four film posters and frames from

them which illustrate Peppy's rising fame. Her name moves

higher up the posters and into bigger letters. The films are

called "The Rookie", "The Brunette ", "The Girl Next Door" and,

finally, "On the Roof ".

OMITTED

We catch up with her in a close up, applying her make up. The

camera pulls back and we see that not only is she not putting

the make up on herself - a make up artist is doing that - but

there are in fact four pairs of hands getting busy around her;

two make up girls, a hairdresser and a wardrobe assistant.

Peppy, fortunately, has stayed completely natural and doesn't

seem to take any of it seriously. As the last touch is put in

place, Peppy gets to her feet and turns round.

At her feet lie a dozen pairs of shoes, each pair as

magnificent as the next, and all in their swanky boxes. Peppy

tries on a pair. Close up of her feet.

Crossfade to a man's pair of shoes with used heels and uppers.

George's dog comes to sit at his feet. The date is superimposed

on the screen: 1931.

The camera climbs up his legs to reveal George lying fully

dressed in his bed, obviously at home in view of his attitude.

He's changed. And even if his suit is still pretty smart, he's

become more "common", less unattainable. He seems to have lost

whatever it was that made him so superb. Primarily he's a bit

drunk, somewhat hesitant. George gets up and closes his Murphy

bed, the kind of bed that slots up into the wall to look like a

closet. Then he walks across the living area. His home has

changed too, it's fallen in class and is a lot more modest than

the one we were used to seeing him in. We do however recognize

some of the objects, furniture and paintings from his old

house, notably the huge portrait of him smiling. He goes into

the kitchen which is open onto the rest of the apartment.

There's nothing in the refrigerator. He looks for something to

drink but there's only one bottle left in the rack. He lifts it

up. It's empty.

He opens a closet. Inside, a tuxedo hangs among a number of

bare hangers.

In a pawnshop, George, still a little drunk, is selling his

tuxedo. The pawnbroker and he are visibly disagreeing on the

price, but of course it's George who folds first and hands

over the tuxedo. The pawnbroker counts out the bills and

hands them to George who, in a fit of pride, leaves a tip as

he leaves - his dignity intact even in the face of adversity.

At home, George is drinking and watching his chauffeur fix some

food. He seems preoccupied.

Title card: How long's it been since I paid you last,

Clifton?

The chauffeur answers as he carries on doing what he's doing.

Title card: Been one year now, Sir.

George gets up, visibly thinking that he shouldn't have done

that, that it's wrong. He go gets the keys and a jacket,

comes back and gives them to the chauffeur.

Title card: You're fired. Keep the car. Get yourself a job

someplace else.

The chauffeur refuses, George insists. They don't agree but

George ends up throwing him out, even though we've understood

that he's doing it for Clifton's benefit and not through any

unkindness.

Once outside, the chauffeur doesn't move. He stays next to the

car. George watches him through the window. The chauffeur

still doesn't budge. George pulls the curtains.

In the evening, George looks out between the curtains, the

chauffeur is still there. George turns on his heels and gets

into his Murphy bed.

Night time. George is in bed with his eyes open.

Outside, the chauffeur is still in the same position.

The next morning, George gets up and goes to look from the

window. The chauffeur has gone. George is a little sad, but

that's just the way it is... He looks around at his home.

A little later, George looks at himself in a mirror. We pass

from him to his reflection, which he hides by placing his drink

against the mirror.

A sign says that the effects of George Valentin are to be

auctioned. Furniture, costumes, objets d'art and paintings on

September 14th. There aren't many people in the room, just five

or six. George is standing at the back, smoking a cigarette.

His position and demeanor are exactly like when he was watching

the screening of Tears of Love, from the back of the room with

the verdict of failure in the air...

He's looking a little unsteady on his feet, probably due to the

hip flask he's necking that seems to contain liquor. The

objects go under the hammer one by one. We see the three

monkeys go by, notably, hear no evil, speak no evil, see no

evil. Two buyers especially are raising the prices by bidding

against each other, a distinguished and reserved-looking man,

and a lady of a certain age who looks a bit severe, to the

point of bigotry. They don't seem perfectly comfortable, but

they are the only two buying.

A few crossfades (the display table emptying, faces, hands

being raised, hammer falling, "sold" labels) show us the lots

disappearing - every single item is sold.

George is now with the auctioneer, he's studying the list of

items as auction assistants busy themselves around him,

carrying and packing the sold lots. The auctioneer, who is

putting on his coat, congratulates George.

Title card: Well done! It all sold, there's nothing left!

George nods but his smile seems a little ironic. He leaves

the room.

On the stairway, as he's leaving, he is joined by the

distinguished-looking man who puts on his coat and leaves.

They leave at the same time. The man crosses the street, we

follow him.

He gets into a car. Peppy is sitting in the back. She's alone

and watching George walk off with his unsteady gait. She's sad.

The man casts a glance to ask her what he should do next.

Peppy, with a forced smile, motions that they can leave. As the

man starts up the motorcar, George is walking away. The car

sets off and overtakes him. Peppy does not turn round. She's

crying.

George, dressed differently, is drinking in a clandestine bar

that has made the effort of putting up a few Christmas

decorations. George is visibly smashed.

A small version of him appears superimposed on the bar, dressed

as an explorer and discovering the life-size version of

himself. The big version watches the little version load his

rifle. Then the little version shoots at the big version, but

the big version just smiles.

Little version runs off shot to get help, and he comes back

with a tribe of African warriors, all bearing spears. They

attack.

Big version tries to defend himself, staggers as he gets to his

feet, tries to gesture to the barman, but he is so drunk that

he falls straight backwards without making the slightest

attempt to stop his fall. The Africans leap about with joy.

(84) George's chauffeur comes into the bar. He motions to the

barman who jerks his head in one direction. The chauffeur

follows the indication and finds George lying on the floor,

totally smashed. He slaps him gently around the face a few

times in a vain attempt to wake him, then lifts him over his

shoulder, pays the check and leaves.

At George's house, his chauffeur puts him to bed and hangs his

suit carefully before leaving the room. He sees the dog, goes

over to it and strokes it. They look at each other. We can tell

that the chauffeur is worried about George.

Peppy Miller is "The Guardian Angel". It's a huge poster on the

facade of a movie theater. George goes inside. With Jack.

The auditorium is full. George sits down in the first row. To

watch the film he has to look upwards, and sees a huge and

magnificent Peppy rising above him. She's playing a scene with

a young actor we recognize, it's Humphrey Bogart. He's become a

spectator: he laughs, is absorbed and cries along with the

others.

Coming out of the theater several young people bump into him.

They don't recognize him. There's a lot of people milling

about, so he picks Jack up. A woman exclaims an Oh! of

admiration as though she's recognized George. He smiles

modestly but soon realizes that it's just because she thinks

Jack is cute and has come over to stroke him like she would any

other dog. She is totally under Jack's charm, and says to

George.

Title card: If only he could talk!

George still has the smile on his lips, but it has become one

of resignation.

He looks away as the woman strokes the dog.

George is playing Zorro. He performs stunt after stunt and the

close ups show his devastating smile to its best advantage. In

fact, it's an extract from The Mark of Zorro with Douglas

Fairbanks, into which we'll insert close ups of Jean we've shot

ourselves.

The Zorro sequence is being screened on a wall in George's

apartment. George is watching himself, slumped in an easy

chair. His sluggish attitude and listless air are in sharp

contrast with the image of himself projected by the film.

Then the image jumps and goes white. George gets up, still half-

smashed. His shadow is clearly delineated on the white screen.

He sees it, looks it up and down and then starts to look at it

sideways.

Title card: Look what you've become...

He carries on shouting at it, obviously very annoyed with it.

Title card: You were very nasty! And stupid! And arrogant!

He doesn't even want to look at it anymore. He looks

disgusted. Suddenly his shadow separates itself from him and

moves independently from him. As he shouts at it, it lowers

its head and doesn't reply.

Title card: You acted very badly! You were thoughtless!

He carries on as though it's normal until his shadow walks

off with its head bowed. He watches it go, trying to

understand what's happening, but it's gone and he's still

there. He begins to holler.

Title card: COME BACK! COME BACK HERE RIGHT NOW!!!

Totally smashed he starts to violently throw film reels

against the wall as he hollers. The cans split open and the

film bursts out all over. George is becoming more and more

frenzied. The floor is now covered in cans and film. He

stops, dripping with sweat. Worriedly, he looks around for a

moment. Then he strikes a match, takes a second to consider

what he's about to do and throws the match into the middle of

the reels.

There's madness in his eyes as he watches the fire take hold.

We can see his pleasure at seeing the flames spread. But he's

very quickly overrun. The reels burst into flames in an

instant and give off lots of smoke. Jack is panicking and

barks incessantly. Suddenly, George seems to lose it. He

doesn't know what to do anymore and, although the fire is

spreading quite spectacularly around him, he runs to where

the reels and films that he has not opened are, and begins

throwing them frantically over his shoulder as though he's

looking for one in particular. The ever-increasing denseness

of the smoke, however, is making the task almost impossible.

On the floor, below the smoke, Jack flees the room and runs

off while George suffocates but continues to struggle with

the cans of reels.

The dog comes out of the house and makes a dash for the

sidewalk as fast as he can.

(91) In the room, among the flames and the smoke, George -

now breathless - picks one of the reels and tries to turn

round. He collapses, still holding on to the can.

Jack spots a cop at a junction. He takes hold of the cop's

trouser leg with his teeth and tries to pull him towards

George's house. The policeman doesn't understand, however, and

pushes it away with his foot. The dog persists and barks but

the cop just wants to be left in peace.

(91) George is suffocating on the floor. The level of smoke

is getting ever lower and is slowly covering his face.

(93) Jack barks louder and louder. The policeman feels

uncomfortable. A woman is watching the scene inquisitively.

Not knowing what to do, the cop motions to the dog to be

silent and threatens it with two fingers, just like George

miming a pistol. Jack collapses and plays dead. The cop has

no idea what's happened, he crouches down and touches the dog

to see if it's all right. Jack wakes up and goes to leave but

stops immediately to show the cop he wants to take him with

him. The cop still doesn't understand, it's the woman who

tells him what he must do. The cop seems to understand, has a

moment of doubt, and then starts following the dog. Jack

encourages him to go faster, but the cop resists to begin

with. Little by little though, as though realizing the

seriousness of the situation, he speeds up. More and more,

until he finally arrives flat out at George's home. The cop

sees the smoke coming out of the house. He runs into the smoke.

A completely unconscious George, overcome by the fumes, is

dragged out of the fire by the policeman.

They come out the house. George is still clutching the reel. A

crowd has formed, people recognize him. One woman feels sorry

for him, a man runs for help. George is unconscious.

We see Peppy on a shoot, sitting in a chair with her name on

it, smoking a cigarette. Everyone about her is busy preparing a

shot. Suddenly an assistant brings her a telephone. She takes

the receiver with a smile and listens. Her expression tightens

a little. She hangs up, pensive for a moment. On set,the

director gestures to his assistant that the shot is ready and

they are good to go. The assistant goes towards Peppy to let

her know but, as he gets to where she should be, her seat is

empty. He looks everywhere for her, but she has disappeared.

In her car, and still in costume, she urges her chauffeur to go

quick as he can.

