FADE IN:

EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- SEPTEMBER AFTERNOON

A COUPLE moves down a walkway, deep in subdued conversation.

All around them trees explode with autumn color. Birds sing.

Their path is dappled with leafy shadow.

To their left, on the sunny meadow, TEENAGERS throw saucers

and footballs, smoke cigarettes and joints, drink beer and

soda, savoring the waning hours of summer.

CLOSER ON THE COUPLE

He is WILLS KEANE, late 40's to early 50's, strikingly

handsome, impeccably dressed, and supremely poised. At first

glance he has the proud glow of a hedonist who in the war

against time has been the undisputed victor.

Only a closer look hints at the toll of battle. His shoulders

strain under the weight of so much repetition. His eyes are

touched by regret. The lines in his face reveal an emerging

disenchantment not so much with the world as with himself.

Walking at his side is a WOMAN, 30, attractive and bright.

Her name is unimportant because so many have come before her

and, if the past prevails, so many will come after.

She listens intently, as Wills finishes speaking --

EXT. ANOTHER CENTRAL PARK WALKWAY -- LATER

Still talking quietly, they pass into a more secluded area

of the park--

She is amused by his confidence --

She laughs. Then he stops. He hears something. She stops.

She hears it, too. It's a GIRL'S VOICE. He casually turns

and looks, squinting into the sun.

He takes a few steps and there, between trees, he sees TWO

DOZEN PEOPLE sitting on the grass and on folding chairs --

most are middle-aged or older with a distinctly intellectual-

bohemian look to them.

Standing and addressing them is CHARLOTTE FIELDING, 19, fair,

willowy, pale, lovely in an unconventional way. She wears an

eccentric hat and a vintage dress. Her bearing is upright,

her gaze warm and intelligent, her voice rich with emotion --

The woman whispers in Wills' ear --

But Wills ignores her. He watches Charlotte with keen

interest, touched by the depth and sincerity of her emotion.

She looks out at the group, many of whom are crying. A tear

runs down her cheek. She smiles and wipes it away.

The woman, seeing Wills' interest in the girl, whispers --

He knows a great deal. Or at least he thinks he does. But

his answer is nonchalant --

He takes the woman gently by the elbow and guides her away.

He steals one last look back.

Charlotte, returning to where she was sitting, notices Wills.

Their eyes meet and a charge passes between them.

Meanwhile an OLD MAN has risen from his chair --

Wills slowly turns and walks away.

MUSIC AND TITLES IN:

EXT. MANHATTAN SUBWAY STOP -- AUTUMN DUSK

A SWARM OF PEDESTRIANS ascends the steps to the bustling

street.

FIND CHARLOTTE amid the swarm, struggling with a load of

BOXES and SHOPPING BAGS, carrying an antique, wood-and-wire

DRESSMAKER'S MANNEQUIN.

She wears a peasant dress with a cycle jacket, a backpack,

and another eccentric hat.

EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK -- DUSK

Charlotte makes her way down the leaf-strewn pathway. Wheeling

the mannequin by the neck, she passes NYU STUDENTS smoking,

laughing, and chatting on their way to class.

EXT. WEST VILLAGE AVENUE -- DUSK

Charlotte hauls the mannequin down the block. A YOUNG MAN

offers her assistance, but she politely and firmly refuses.

EXT. WEST VILLAGE STREET -- DUSK

Charlotte wearily hauls the mannequin across the cobblestone

street, over the curb, and up to the stoop of a charming but

slightly dilapidated BROWNSTONE.

INT. BROWNSTONE FOYER -- DUSK

Charlotte opens the door into the darkness. She hits a light

switch and nothing happens. She flips it back and forth --

She dumps her boxes and bags, then wheels in the mannequin.

MUSIC AND TITLES OUT:

INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- SAME

EIGHT SILHOUETTES are crouched in the dark room. The mantel

is draped with a HAPPY BIRTHDAY BANNER. The coffee table is

stacked with WRAPPED GIFTS.

INT. FOYER -- SAME

Charlotte looks suspiciously at the living room door --

She tiptoes through the darkness and lays her ear against

it.

INT. LIVING ROOM -- SAME

We hear chuckles and whispers of anticipation. An older

woman's raspy, boozy voice growls --

A few people chuckle, but they're quickly hushed. The DOOR

KNOB TURNS and the DOOR OPENS. Everyone leaps up in a blaze

of light --

The MANNEQUIN bursts into the room, teetering crazily, wearing

CHARLOTTE'S JACKET, BACKPACK, and HAT.

Everyone FLINCHES and SCREAMS. Amid a chorus of laughter,

Charlotte enters. Grinning, she wags a facetious finger --

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT

An antique clock ticks crisply on the dresser. Wills stands

before a mahogany mirror, buttoning a freshly laundered white

shirt.

Lying on the cradle bed, half-wrapped in a sheet, naked but

for a string of pearls, is TANYA, 35, raven-haired, much too

thin. She smokes a cigarette.

She stretches with her cigarette but before she can make it

to the ashtray, her ASH FALLS on a New York magazine.

On the cover is a PHOTOGRAPH OF WILLS standing next to a

YOUNG CHEF in a fashionable restaurant. The caption reads:

"The Prodigal Son Returns."

He slips in a cuff link. She affects a breezy indifference --

Wills slips on a silk tie --

He stops tying his tie and stares at her in the mirror --

He goes back to tying his tie, then adds softly --

She stares at him, speechless.

INT. RESTAURANT -- THAT NIGHT

Its decor is exquisitely tasteful, its ambiance warm and

convivial. The night is in full swing. Most of the tables

are taken and the bar is packed.

EXT. UPPER EAST SIDE -- SAME

From amid the RUSH OF TRAFFIC, a TAXI breaks free and glides

to the curb in front of the RESTAURANT.

Its facade is windowless. Only a small brass plaque on the

grey marble reveals that this is ELYSIUM.

Wills and ERIKO, 30's, Japanese, aloof and stunning, emerge

from the taxi, elegantly dressed, and move to the front door.

INT. ELYSIUM -- CONTINUOUS

TWO TIPSY DEBUTANTES pass Wills and Eriko as they enter. One

recognizes Wills and smiles flirtatiously.

Wills stops and helps Eriko off with her jacket. JESUS, 30,

the dashing Cuban-American maitre d', superbly discreet,

approaches --

Wills hands Eriko's jacket to MELISSA, 20, the hat check

girl --

CELIA, mid-20's, the chipper, blonde Midwestern hostess,

arrives, wearing a stunned, glassy smile.

Celia, barely making eye contact with Eriko, walks quickly

away. Wills is amused and a little confused by Celia's

behavior. He lays a hand on Eriko's back --

Eriko nods and follows Celia.

Wills moves to the reservation stand where his best friend

and the restaurant's manager, JOHN VOLPE, 40, a brilliant,

dapper, tough as nails Brooklynite stands, listening to

someone on the telephone.

Wills lays a hand on his shoulder and mutters into his ear --

Wills laughs and takes a look into the bar. John gestures

with his head in Eriko's direction --

Wills exits into the bar. John smiles and shakes his head.

FOLLOW WILLS, as he glides along the bar. CUSTOMERS and STAFF

greet him warmly.

As he enters the main dining room, DINERS spot him --

sprinkled among them are CELEBRITIES from every walk of city

life. Wills greets them, stopping to shake their hands and

kiss their cheeks.

Suddenly, Celia, the hostess, red-faced, blocks his path --

Shocked, she can't help but sputter a laugh --

They both laugh. He moves closer, lowers his voice, and speaks

with warm sincerity --

Wills smiles, pats her in the shoulder, and moves on. She

can't believe it.

A WAITER carrying a BIRTHDAY CAKE -- blazing with candles

and decorated with a WOMAN'S HAT made of MERINGUE LATTICEWORK --

passes by on his way to the REAR DINING ROOM.

From inside, VOICES begin to sing HAPPY BIRTHDAY. Wills, his

curiosity piqued, follows.

INT. REAR DINING ROOM -- CONTINUOUS

The waiter sets down the cake at the center of a round table.

There's a CHEER and APPLAUSE as the song ends. Wills cannot

see whose birthday it is because the waiter blocks his view.

Just as Wills is about to exit the room, the waiter steps

away. Wills glances over and sees the birthday girl. At first

he can't place her, but then he does, and his face softens

and brightens.

It's Charlotte. She wears a black velvet dress and a

wonderfully eccentric hat. Her eyes glow in the candlelight.

Through the chorus of voices, urging her to make a wish, she

cries out --

Charlotte blows hard, and, with a little more effort than

you might expect, extinguishes the candles. Everyone APPLAUDS

and CHEERS.

To Charlotte's right sits SIMON LORING, late 20's, English,

sardonic, adoring. He gestures at her CHEST and says --

Everyone laughs. Charlotte playfully slaps him --

Charlotte's best friend, SHANNON HARRIS, 19, a spoiled but

big-hearted redhead, drowning in curls, mutters --

More laughter.

BACK TO WILLS. He considers approaching Charlotte, but then

he looks back and sees Eriko sitting alone at their table,

idly stabbing at her drink with a straw.

Regretting his rudeness, he takes a step toward her, but

then hears --

He turns and sees DOLORES TALBOT, 70, blonde wig, spindly

frame, weathered skin, large, sad eyes. She holds a mixed

drink --

His smile shows uneasy surprise --

As he hugs Dolores, he can't help but look over at Charlotte

again.

ON CHARLOTTE. She looks over. Her view is such that she sees

Wills but not Dolores.

A faint blush creeps into Charlotte's cheeks. She pretends

to listen as Shannon tells a story --

Noticing Charlotte's distraction, Simon whispers calmly to

her --

Charlotte speaks under her breath without moving her lips --

Both Shannon and Simon turn to look, but like lightning

Charlotte grabs them both --

Charlotte watches furtively as Simon rises from his chair

and walks over. As he passes Wills, he flashes him a seductive

smile. Wills is confused by it.

Shannon swivels her head and throws an aloof, vacant stare

in Wills' direction. Then she looks back at Charlotte, mouth

agape --

Charlotte laughs.

BACK ON WILLS. He does his best to be attentive as Dolores

exhales a plume of smoke into his face --

ON CHARLOTTE. She sits listening to Shannon --

Charlotte looks over and pales, her eyes widening --

Dolores walks up, hauling Wills by the arm --

The table greets him. Wills, slightly self-conscious, looks

at everyone but Charlotte.

The news hits Wills hard. But he does his best to hide it.

He musters a casual smile --

Dolores indicates the hat that Charlotte's wearing --

Shannon makes an elaborate comic show of modeling the hat

she's wearing. The table laughs.

Wills levels his gaze at Charlotte --

Try as she might to accept the compliment with grace,

Charlotte can't help but grin.

The WINE STEWARD stands at a station on which sit TWO BOTTLES

OF CHAMPAGNE on ice. He reaches for one. Wills stops him --

The steward, understanding, nods and departs, taking the

champagne with him.

Amused, he flashes Charlotte his most dazzling smile.

Wills turns to exit. Simon, returning to his seat, murmurs

seductively to Wills as he passes by --

Wills looks at him, confused again, then continues on. As

Simon sits, he mutters to Charlotte --

Charlotte turns to Dolores who has just sat down.

Dolores eats a sloppy forkful of birthday cake.

EXT. WINDOW -- ESTABLISHING -- MORNING

A gentle breeze tickles a white lace curtain. A PHONE RINGS.

INT. BROWNSTONE KITCHEN -- SAME

Charlotte, standing in the small antiquated kitchen, wearing

flannel pajamas, tenses when she hears the PHONE RINGING

UPSTAIRS. She snatches an apple from a bowl and dashes out

of the room.

FOLLOW CHARLOTTE running through the DINING ROOM... into the

LIVING ROOM... into the FOYER... and up a DARK STAIRCASE.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S BEDROOM -- MORNING

A startling clash of childhood, adolescence, and womanhood.

Everything from stuffed animals to posters of pop icons to

volumes of great literature.

THE PHONE RINGS AGAIN

Charlotte bangs in, flings herself on the bed, and grabs the

phone --

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. WILLS' ROOFTOP TERRACE -- MORNING

Wills sits in his woolen robe, holding a portable phone.

Amused, he smiles into the morning sun --

Her heart stops. She sits up slowly, her body tensed.

OLIVIA, 30's, Wills' Jamaican cook and housekeeper, enters.

Plump, handsome, and perpetually amused, she carries a tray

laden with continental breakfast and a New York Times. Wills

mouths a greeting. She smiles back and sets the tray on a

table.

Charlotte runs over to her sewing table, looking for a pen

and paper. She finds paper, but no pen --

She finds a pen but it doesn't work. She grabs an eyeliner

and uses that --

His tone has abruptly shifted; it's intimately hushed. It

both daunts and excites her --

She clicks off the phone, wilts into a swoon on the bed, and

breaks out laughing.

Wills, still holding the receiver, stares dreamily into the

middle distance.

He snaps to when Olivia enters. Her accent is as much Queens

as it is Caribbean --

She throws him a sly, sidelong glance, then exits. Wills

laughs and contentedly sips his coffee.

FROM THE NEXT SCENE, we hear the sound of SQUEALING, LAUGHING,

SHOUTING CHILDREN.

INT. FAO SCHWARZ -- NIGHT

Surrounded by swarming PARENTS and KIDS, Wills stands with

John, the manager of Elysium, and his wife, SARAH VOLPE, 30,

who, gazing out of frame, keeps a watchful eye on their kids --

Wills and Sarah meet eyes.

Sarah shakes her head.

MOLLY and CARLA, the Volpes' five-year-old TWIN DAUGHTERS

run up, beaming, each carrying a huge stuffed animal.

John scoops both his daughters up in his arms and kisses

them repeatedly.

Wills watches, his eyes filling with a vague, wistful envy.

He sees Sarah staring at him. She smiles sympathetically.

INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- AFTERNOON

The furniture is antique and dark. The white walls are tinged

with yellow from years of cigarettes. In one corner, the

paint has chipped off the ceiling in a jagged plate.

Dolores sits on a worn-out leather arm chair, smoking, sipping

a cocktail, watching a DAYTIME TALK SHOW.

In the background, we see Charlotte working in the ADJOINING

DINING ROOM which she has turned into a lovely sewing room.

CLOSER ON CHARLOTTE. She builds her hat on a HAT BLOCK -- a

wooden mannequin head. Strewn all around her are the materials

of her hatmaking -- bolts of cloth, hat blocks, a sewing

table.

Shannon, wearing sweats and a T-shirt, lies on the floor,

eating M+M's and drinking diet soda, while heavily marking

up a text book with a YELLOW HIGHLIGHTER.

Charlotte stops and rubs her eyes, then she glances down at

Shannon and smiles --

They both laugh. Overhearing, Dolores croaks facetiously --

Shannon rolls over onto her back --

Charlotte pins a strip of black lace to the hat --

Charlotte chuckles and sets the half-finished hat on her

head. Still seated, she wheels her work chair over to a mirror --

Shannon rolls over and looks at her. Suddenly her expression

is inexplicably solemn --

She models the hat. Tears well in Shannon's eyes and she

says without even a hint of irony or sentimentality --

Charlotte smiles, looks away, and, trying not to cry, fusses

with the hat.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST -- NIGHT

A cold autumn rain falls. The Irish doorman, MICHAEL, 60's,

melancholy, stoop-shouldered, smokes a cigarette, looking up

at the unburdening sky.

A LIMOUSINE pulls up. The passenger window glides down --

RUNNING FOOTSTEPS approach. Michael looks. The driver looks,

too.

It's Charlotte, dressed in tattered jeans, a light rain coat,

and sneakers, dashing at breakneck speed down the street,

carrying something in a GARBAGE BAG.

She runs right past Michael --

INT. ELEVATOR -- NIGHT

Michael works the shiny brass controls. Charlotte, winded,

hair dripping wet, watches the numbers tick by overhead.

Michael smiles at her with paternal fondness --

Charlotte, nonplused by his lack of discretion, smiles

politely --

INT. WILLS' PENTHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

The elevator doors open.

She emerges, moves to Wills' door, and waits for the elevator

to close. When it does, she hurries back to a table over

which hangs a GILDED MIRROR.

She takes a LOVELY OLD HAT BOX out of the garbage bag and

ditches the bag under the table. Then she quickly checks

herself in the glass.

She doesn't like what she sees. She pokes at her sopping

hair and squeezes it, but it's hopeless. Remembering the

time, she hurries back to the door, takes a deep breath, and

rings the bell.

She waits. And waits. Then she hears footsteps approaching.

She realizes she's left the hat box on the table.

She rushes over and grabs it, just in time to get back to

the door when it OPENS.

Olivia, the housekeeper, steps out, wearing her coat and

carrying her purse. Her voice is low and gentle --

They exchange cordial smiles. Charlotte enters.

INT. WILLS' APARTMENT -- CONTINUOUS

Charlotte steps into a dim hallway lined with oil paintings,

carpeted with a Persian runner, and lighted by three antique

sconces. She walks slowly, terribly self-conscious.

INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- CONTINUOUS

The room is vast, furnished with antiques, decorated with

the same masculine good taste. Charlotte enters timidly,

then hears --

She looks and sees Wills standing, back turned, before a

broad set of high windows. City lights glimmer in the

distance; beneath them lies the vast gloom of Central Park.

Wills turns around. A magnificent figure -- expertly tailored

tux, every hair in place, freshly manicured. And then he

offers her an amused, reassuring smile --

Flattered, her face brightens --

He walks over to her. Smiling, she sets down the box, unties

the ribbon, and gingerly removes the hat. It's sublimely

simple and elegant. She looks at him with hope. His face

betrays nothing --

Charlotte, a little confused, carefully sets the hat on her

head. She steps to a wall mirror, pulls the veil down, and

sets it at the correct angle.

Wills appears behind her and shares the reflection. She feels

his presence, hears his breathing. They speak in hushed tones --

She smiles. Their eyes meet in the glass.

Charlotte can't believe it. She smiles at his reflection.

He gestures toward the half-open door on other side of the

room. Charlotte turns and, biting her lip, looks at the door,

then back at Wills, then back at the door.

INT. GRAND BALLROOM, PLAZA HOTEL -- NIGHT

A spectacular affair is in full swing, a benefit for the

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART attended by FIVE HUNDRED GUESTS

from HIGH SOCIETY dressed only in black and white.

A LARGE BAND plays -- everything from waltzes to jazz to

swing. Chandeliers glisten. Guests, sitting in ornate boxes,

look down on the marble dance floor where a WALTZ is in

progress.

FIND WILLS AND CHARLOTTE, dancing together. Charlotte looks

sophisticated and beautiful beyond measure, wearing a

sleeveless black sheath with a fake fur wrap, and, of course,

her hat.

It takes a few beats for Wills to put it together. He smiles,

realizing that her presence at Elysium wasn't a coincidence.

She smiles back, sweetly, coyly.

ON THE PERIMETER, FIND TWO RICH WOMEN, 40's, too thin, too

lifted, watching Wills and Charlotte waltz.

They stand with LISA, 23, unassuming, fair-haired, simply

dressed.

Pause. Lisa looks at her, feigning naivety.

The women share a laugh. Lisa, slightly discomposed, looks

back at Wills and Charlotte.

INT. GRAND BALLROOM -- LATER

Wills and Charlotte slow dance to a romantic ballad. Wills

seems entranced by her easy manner of expression --

Wills is uncomfortable for a moment, then ventures quietly --

Charlotte smiles sadly. Her eyes glisten in the light.

Silence as Wills somberly reflects. Finally, he speaks --

Suddenly, a SWING SONG starts. Wills smiles at the ironic

change of mood, then turns to escort Charlotte away --

Holding his hand, she starts moving to the music. Wills laughs --

She flings her wrap onto a chair and keeps dancing. Wills,

charmed senseless, finally surrenders.

A SEQUENCE BEGINS during which we see WILLS and CHARLOTTE

having an inordinately good time. Wills maintains a modicum

of reserve; Charlotte is joyful and entirely unembarrassed.

CERTAIN GUESTS NOTICE THEM. The reactions to their pairing

runs from confusion to disgust to amusement.

But no one watches them more carefully than Lisa.

Finally, in the middle of a song, Wills and Charlotte make

their way off the floor, winded and laughing. Wills heads

off to the bar. Charlotte turns around and watches the other

dancers.

Then we notice Lisa standing next to her. They smile at each

other. Lisa offers her a cocktail napkin. Charlotte takes it

and wipes off her brow.

They speak above the music --

They shake hands. Lisa looks away and sees Wills making his

way toward them with two glasses of punch.

Coolly covering, Lisa beats a hasty retreat --

Lisa smiles politely and walks away.

Wills walks up, watching Lisa melt into the crowd. His brow

is furrowed. He's wondering if his eyes have deceived him.

He hands Charlotte a punch --

The name hits home. Wills is flustered, but then he covers

as best he can and lifts his glass --

Wills smiles slowly and they toast.

INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

The room is empty. There's laughter in the distance. The

front door opens and shuts. We hear Wills and Charlotte,

both a little tipsy, advancing down the hall toward us --

Wills crosses to the bar and from a small refrigerator pulls

out a BOTTLE OF CHAMPAGNE already sitting in an ice bucket.

Wills laughs, then opens the bottle as he picks up his

previous train of thought --

Wills chuckles, shaking his head, charmed but a little

unsettled.

He hands her a glass of champagne.

Wills moves a few steps closer.

Wills walks even closer, until they are just a few feet apart.

Wills can't believe his good luck. He nears her until their

faces are almost touching.

She rises on tiptoe and puts her mouth just inches from his.

Their breathing mingles. Wills seems almost dizzied by it.

And then, very slowly, he kisses her.

She does not kiss back.

Finally, he pulls away, staring blankly, breathing hard, not

sure what to say.

Charlotte whispers --

She smiles, then kisses him deeply on the mouth. Her arms

wrap around his neck.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Cloaked in deep shadow, set off against a rainy window pane,

we see Wills, his shirt off, on top of Charlotte whose blouse

is open. He passionately kisses her neck and mouth.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- MORNING

The room is bathed in golden light. Charlotte lies naked

under the covers asleep on her stomach. Her brow is tense

and one of her hands is slightly clenched.

ANGLE ON WILLS, standing in the doorway, watching her, his

face a portrait of conflicted thoughts.

Finally, she stirs. Smiling and squinting into the sun, she

gets up on one arm and looks at him, standing there in the

doorway --

EXT. WILLS' TERRACE -- LATER

Charlotte happily wolfs down her continental breakfast. Wills

sits across from her, watching and worrying.

Wills chuckles, then his smile fades and he clears his throat.

She looks at him. Lowers her fork. He adds almost reluctantly --

Wills' face reddens slightly. He shifts uneasily in his chair.

A suggestion of a smile plays along his features --

Wills stares at her blankly, not knowing what to think or

say.

Olivia enters, takes her orange juice glass and leaves a

full one.

Charlotte gulps down the juice. Wills watches, his mind

reeling.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE -- DAY

Wills sits across from a large desk, beneath a wall of framed

certificates and diplomas. The door opens and DR. PAUL SIBLEY,

60, African-American, dour and forbidding, enters --

Wills jerks to his feet and they shake hands --

He walks around the desk. Sibley is all business, but his

brusqueness masks genuine regret --

Wills shifts uneasily in his chair.

A silence settles between them. Sibley opens a folder on his

desk.

Wills shakes his head and rises from his chair. He turns to

the door, then turns back to the doctor --

EXT. ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM -- LATER

Wearing her tattered jeans from the night before, Charlotte

sits on the couch doing the New York Times crossword. Wills

emerges, walking slowly, pensively, as though in a trance.

Charlotte looks up and masks her anxiety with a grin --

Wills doesn't react. He keeps walking toward her. Unsettled,

she holds up the puzzle.

Wills keeps advancing.

Ignoring her, Wills sits down, takes her in his arms, and

embraces her. At first she resists, but slowly she surrenders

and hugs him back.

INT. TAXI -- AFTERNOON

As the cab bounces down a cobblestone Village street, Wills

and Charlotte stare straight ahead, each following the

tortuous path of his own thoughts.

Slowly, Charlotte steals a sidelong look at him. His face is

tense, ashen, and unreadable --

Wills slowly turns his head. She smiles sweetly --

He can't help but smile. Encouraged, she moves closer --

The cab comes to a stop in front of her brownstone. She smiles

archly, savoring the irony --

Wills grimly appreciates the irony.

She kisses his cheek and jumps out of the cab. She skips up

the steps of the brownstone, then immediately turns around

and runs back down to the open window.

She leans in and mutters sexily --

Wills is shocked. She turns and runs back upstairs. She sticks

in the key, then turns and waves at Wills before banging

open the door with her hip.

Wills hasn't moved a muscle.

FROM THE NEXT SCENE, we hear the pop of FLASHBULBS and the

whirr of SHUTTERS --

INT. DOWNTOWN LOFT -- NIGHT

YOUNG FASHION MODELS OF EVERY RACE strut down a runway,

modeling a new line of WOMEN'S URBAN CASUAL WEAR.

FIND CHARLOTTE, ignoring the show, pushing through the crowd,

hurrying toward the side of the stage. She speaks to a GUARD

at the entrance and he lets her pass.

INT. BACKSTAGE -- MOMENTS LATER

Charlotte searches amid the chaos of models dressing and

undressing. Finally, she spots them.

FIND SIMON AND SHANNON styling a BLACK FEMALE MODEL in a

tank top and fatigues.

He applies a finishing touch, adjusting the tilt of the

model's baseball cap. Shannon, lacing the girl's boots, works

as Simon's assistant.

EXT. SOHO STREET -- NIGHT

The threesome, in high spirits, bangs open a fire door.

Shannon is beside herself, frantically half-screaming --

Shannon lifts a hand to high-five her --

Simon high-fives her instead. The girls laugh.

FROM THE NEXT SCENE, we hear --

INT. ELYSIUM -- LATE AFTERNOON

The restaurant is empty. John stands behind the bar, taking

an inventory of the liquor. In the background, TWO BUSSERS

mop up. Wills sits on a bar stool, nursing a mineral water --

John looks at him curiously. Wills glances over his shoulder

at the bussers, then leans in close --

The busboys turn their heads.

John laughs. Wills settles into a brooding silence. John

goes back to work --

John, continuing his work, smiles sweetly --

Pause.

Wills stares at him thoughtfully.

EXT. BROWNSTONE STOOP -- DAY

Wills stands stiffly at the door, holding a bouquet of

flowers. He stares at his own reflection in the porthole

window. He straightens his hair, tugs at the collar of his

cashmere jacket.

Footsteps approach. The door opens and there's Dolores, bleary-

eyed and disheveled. She smiles sourly --

INT. BROWNSTONE FOYER -- CONTINUOUS

Through the dark prism of Dolores' inhospitable wariness, we

catch glimpses of the high-society hostess she once was --

They move through a doorway --

INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Wills is surprised by the room's run-down state.

She chuckles to herself. Wills hands her the flowers.

She casually drops them into an EMPTY BLENDER at the bar.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S BEDROOM -- SAME

Simon lounges on the bed. Charlotte stands before a full-

length mirror, trying on a dress.

Simon nods. Charlotte takes off the dress.

INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- SAME

Wills looks around the room. Dolores splashes her drink with

vodka --

Wills wanders over to the mantel where FAMILY PHOTOS sit in

tarnished antique silver frames. He picks up a photograph of

a YOUNG GIRL in TENNIS WHITES -- it's Charlotte's mother,

Katie.

Wills' face is suffused with tenderness as he studies it.

Dolores walks over and looks --

Eyes moistening, Dolores crosses to her armchair. Her tone

is slightly bitter --

She plops down unsteadily and reaches for her cigarettes --

Wills sets the photo back on the mantel --

But before Wills can answer, they hear footsteps on the

stairs. Neither moves.

Charlotte enters, wearing a peasant dress and felt hat,

looking pretty, pale, and excited.

Wills and Dolores slowly turn. They smile at her, then

exchange a quick glance. Charlotte catches it and becomes

self-conscious --

Charlotte looks to Wills to see if that's, indeed, what he

was thinking. He nods his agreement. She is pleased.

EXT. GREENWICH VILLAGE STREET -- MINUTES LATER

Charlotte, full of energy, hauls Wills down the block by the

hand.

Charlotte jumps off the curb.

He yanks her back just as a TAXI, horn blaring, SPEEDS PAST,

nearly hitting her.

For a moment, they both stand there, hearts pounding,

breathing hard. Then Charlotte looks back at him and grins --

EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK -- AFTERNOON

Under a perfect blue sky, the park swarms with autumn

celebrants. Charlotte and Wills move together down a walkway.

Half-joyously and half comically, Charlotte addresses the

heavens with grand theatricality --

She considers for a few moments --

EXT. FIFTH AVENUE IN THE 50'S -- AFTERNOON

The sidewalk swarms with pedestrians. Wills and Charlotte

emerge empty-handed from the revolving door of a department

store --

INT. BARNEY'S MEN'S DEPARTMENT -- AFTERNOON

Wills sits in a chair while Charlotte looks through silk

scarves --

INT. BARNEY'S LOBBY -- LATER

Wills walks a little self-consciously. He wears around his

shoulders a sloppily draped wrinkly silk scarf.

He walks past OTHER SHOPPERS. Among a GROUP OF WOMEN walking

past him FIND CHARLOTTE who subtly checks him out as though

he were a stranger.

As she passes by, she gives him a sexy look, then, not very

subtly, she spins around to look at his ass.

Finally, she breaks character, runs after him, and throws

her arms around his neck from behind.

Laughing, he holds her hands and hauls her on his back to

the door.

INT. ITALIAN RESTAURANT -- NIGHT

Wills and Charlotte are in the middle of a candlelight dinner.

Wills refills her wine glass --

Wills holds his breath for a moment, then exhales and says

it --

Charlotte sets down her wine glass as she pieces it together --

Wills settles himself, then, meeting her eyes, speaks softly --

Charlotte sips her wine and considers. Then she sets down

her glass --

Wills stares at her solemnly. Her expression just as somber,

she lifts a hand and points to her lips. He leans forward to

kiss her.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Wills and Charlotte, kissing deeply, tumble fully clothed

onto the bed. As their passion builds, Wills reaches for the

bedside lamp.

Charlotte watches curiously, thoughtfully, as he pulls the

cord, plunging the room into UTTER DARKNESS.

MUSIC UP: A SEQUENCE BEGINS

-- Savoring the last sunny days of autumn, Wills and Charlotte

walk across the green of Central Park, which swarms with

happy, healthy teenagers.

-- At night, Wills and John and his wife Sarah sit in box

seats at Yankee Stadium watching the play-offs. Bernie

Williams hits a colossal shot. The crowd jumps to its feet.

As the ball flies over the right field wall, we see that

Charlotte sits next to Wills, munching a hotdog, her nose

buried in a book, utterly uninterested.

-- In Elysium's kitchen, Wills watches on as Charlotte,

wearing an apron over her clothes, prepares bisque under the

approving eye of the CHEF. She quickly and expertly pours a

cup of cream and a cup of broth into a large blender. Then

she dumps in lobster meat and adds some saffron. Just when

she, with a dramatic flourish, is about to hit the start

button, Wills INTERRUPTS and puts the lid on the blender.

-- One morning, Charlotte sits up in bed doing the Sunday

New York Times crossword puzzle. Olivia sits on the chair

next to the bed, chatting and laughing with her. Wills enters,

carrying a silver tray laden with breakfast. Olivia looks up

and gestures haughtily for him to set it down, as though he

were the housekeeper.

-- At the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Wills and Charlotte

wander amid the shadows of Egyptian ruins.

MUSIC OUT.

INT. METROPOLITAN MUSEUM LOBBY -- LATER

Flipping through a stack of postcards he has just purchased,

Wills waits for Charlotte to come out of the ladies room.

He idly glances up as a STREAM OF TOURISTS moves past. He is

about to look away when his eye catches someone.

It is Lisa, the young woman who spoke to Charlotte at the

benefit. Around her neck she wears a chain bearing a Met

employee photograph I.D. She carries a take-out coffee.

Wills FOLLOWS HER, agitated and curious.

He sees her pass through a set of glass doors into the Watson

Research Library.

He hurries over to the doors just in time to see her disappear

behind a bank of card catalogues.

Wills notices a sign at the door that forbids entry to the

public. He hesitates, then enters.

He speaks to the first person he sees -- a ROTUND FEMALE

LIBRARIAN IN HER 60'S. He stops and asks a question about

Lisa. She nods.

Wills is shaken by the answer. He stares into the middle

distance, wondering what to do, his mind racing.

The librarian, a little nervous now, reminds him that he is

not allowed in the library. He snaps to, thanks her, and

moves away.

But then he stops, takes out a BUSINESS CARD, and returns to

the librarian. He is about to hand it to her, but then he

thinks better of it.

Flustered, he thanks her again and exits. The librarian looks

after him, confused and a little apprehensive.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE THE LIBRARY -- SAME

Wills sees Charlotte at the end of the hall looking around

for him. When she spots him, her face brightens. She calls

out facetiously as she walks to him --

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Wills and Charlotte stand, disrobing in the near-total

darkness. They converse in whispers, between kisses --

Charlotte moves slowly through the darkness.

She yanks a cord by the window. The BLIND OPENS and the room

is flooded with MOONLIGHT. The room is still dark, but she

is far more clearly visible.

Her dress is unbuttoned down the front. She walks back to

him and stops about five feet away.

She releases the last buttons on her dress, then slides it

off her shoulders to the floor. She wears only her underwear.

She crosses her arms over her breasts, and smiles --

She closes her eyes, takes a deep breath, then slips off her

underwear. She drops her arms to her side.

She stands before him entirely naked.

Her self-consciousness is excruciating but she is determined

to endure it. Finally, she opens her eyes and smiles with a

hint of pride.

Wills' eyes widen as he takes her in. He crosses to her and

lays his hands on her hips. He kisses her neck.

As their breathing quickens, she begins to unbutton his shirt

and pull it free of his pants.

He takes hold of her hands, stopping her, and starts to ease

her toward the bed. She resists. Wills falters and she

realizes something.

From his expression, she knows she is right.

For the first time since we've met him, Wills is utterly at

a loss. But he sees that Charlotte has no intention of backing

down.

He begins to undress. His hands are uncertain as he untucks

his shirt and unbuckles his belt. When he is finished

undressing, he turns to face her, his arms at his side.

Although we cannot see him in the moonlight and shadows,

Charlotte can. She looks down at his naked body and studies

it. He stares back with shy wariness.

Then she breaks into a crooked grin --

Laughing, he grabs her wrists and throws her on the bed. She

dissolves into paroxysms of laughter.

INT. WILLS BEDROOM -- LATER

Wills and Charlotte make love. As their passion builds,

Charlotte is suddenly stabbed with a pain in her chest.

She grabs his back, her face twists. She holds her breath,

not wanting to reveal the incident to Wills. She closes her

eyes and exhales as the pain subsides.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- LATER

Wills and Charlotte lie in bed with the blinds open and the

city glimmering in the distance.

Charlotte's head rests on his chest. Eyes closed, he brushes

his hand along her face as though he were a blind man

committing every detail to memory.

Charlotte's voice, almost inaudible, drifts up through the

dark --

Wills, half-asleep, murmurs deeply --

They lie in silence.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST -- LATE AFTERNOON

Dusk falls on the park. Charlotte, red-cheeked and happy,

carrying shopping bags, walks into a brisk autumn breeze.

She smiles at a BUNCH OF SCHOOL KIDS, dressed in HALLOWEEN

COSTUMES, being led on their trick or treating.

INT. ELYSIUM REAR OFFICE -- AFTERNOON

Wills sits at a desk, reading the newspaper. John, inspecting

a KING HENRY VIII COSTUME on a hanger, shouts into the

telephone --

He slams down the phone. His face is beet red. Wills looks

up calmly from his paper --

John heads out, then stops abruptly and looks back. His tone

is suddenly calm and curious --

John looks at him strangely, with a hint of suspicion --

Wills has no answer. John moves closer when Celia, his new

assistant, enters cheerily --

She tosses him a paper bag; he catches it.

Wills removes a PAIR OF RED PLASTIC HORNS. John shakes his

head with disbelief.

He holds the horns up to his forehead.

They share a laugh. A flirtatious charge passes between them.

She blushes slightly and exits. John looks suspiciously at

Wills.

Wills smiles at him as though he were insane --

From the next scene, we hear Charlotte laughing --

INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- AFTERNOON

A fire burns in the fireplace. Still wearing his coat, wills

stands by the mantel, sorting through a stack of mail --

Olivia enters with a steamy mug --

She carefully takes his coat off him as he sips the cider --

She exits. As Wills sips the drink, he sits on the leather

sofa and continues to glance through his mail.

Suddenly, shocked, he stops on a letter. He sets his mug

down. He hears Charlotte making noise in the next room. He

opens the letter and begins to read.

His eyes dart down the page, but he quickly sees that the

letter is not friendly. His face shows disappointment.

He hears footsteps in the hall. He folds the letter up, slips

it back into its envelope, and jams it in his back pocket.

Charlotte enters and throws her hands out to her side --

She stands before him, dressed in a WHITE SPINSTERLY VICTORIAN

OUTFIT with braids coiled at her ears. Wills smiles with

appreciation --

Pause.

She hugs and kisses him --

She lays her head on his chest, smiling contentedly. A subtle

shadow of apprehension passes over Wills' features. Eyes

closed, she asks --

EXT. BROOKLYN BROWNSTONE -- ESTABLISHING -- NIGHT

A cardboard ghost hangs on the door. A Jack-o'-lantern grins

in the window. A HALLOWEEN PARTY is in full swing.

INT. BROOKLYN LIVING ROOM -- SAME

John's wife, Sarah, dressed as QUEEN ELIZABETH, walks through

the crowd, picking up empty glasses and bottles.

As she moves among COSTUMED GUESTS and their CHILDREN, we

notice a few of Elysium's customers and staff, including

Celia, dressed as GLINDA, talking to the maitre d', Jesus,

dressed as a COWBOY --

Celia laughs.

INT. BROOKLYN KITCHEN -- CONTINUOUS

Wills stands off to the side, wearing his devil's horns,

sipping a drink, watching an EIGHT-YEAR-OLD BOY bob for

apples, while other BOYS and GIRLS cheer him on.

John, wearing his king costume, supervises, as the boy, wildly

sputtering, struggles to bite into a renegade Granny Smith.

The boy laughs even harder. John facetiously grabs his collar --

The boy, choking with laughter, plunges his face into the

water again. Sarah enters and calls out over the din --

Sarah, smiling curiously, heads to the back stairwell.

She sees Wills standing there. Watching the kids, his eyes

are filled with the same sort of wistful yearning that she

noticed at the toy store --

She gives him an affectionate poke in the stomach as she

passes by and disappears upstairs.

Finally, the boy grabs the apple in his teeth and lifts his

soaked head to the cheers of his friends.

Then he grabs it out of his mouth and begins taking big bites

out of it until he uncovers a SILVER DOLLAR.

Wills laughs at the kids' excitement. A moment later a WOMAN'S

GLOVED HANDS cover his eyes.

Wills feels her LONG GLOVES.

She laughs and playfully strangles him.

He turns and sees that it's the woman from the film's opening,

dressed as HOLLY GOLIGHTLY.

INT. BROOKLYN SECOND-FLOOR HALLWAY -- SAME

Sarah stops silently at an AJAR DOOR and looks inside.

Charlotte sits on a bed between the twin girls who are nestled

up against her --

She clears her throat and settles herself. The twins listen

with rapt attention as she recites from memory, slowly as

though it were a suspenseful bedtime story --

Charlotte looks up and sees Sarah, who face is beaming with

affection. They share a smile and Charlotte keeps reciting --

Sarah eases the door shut and steps away.

INT. BROOKLYN LIVING ROOM -- HOUR LATER

THE CAMERA makes a CIRCUIT of the THINNING CROWD. Sarah blows

out candles, dumps ash trays, and collects empties.

Charlotte, rubbing a knuckle into her sleepy eye, descends

the stairs. She sees Celia talking to Jesus, and walks over

to them --

Charlotte pretends to be fighting mad --

Charlotte laughs and heads to the kitchen.

INT. BROOKLYN KITCHEN -- SAME

John wipes down the table which is littered with bits of

apple.

They share a laugh.

Charlotte is puzzled.

INT. BROOKLYN SECOND-FLOOR HALLWAY -- LATER

Charlotte walks down the hall, opening doors and glancing

inside. She opens a bathroom and THREE CATS dash out.

She gets to the end of the hall and is about to give up.

When she hears FOOTSTEPS.

She walks around the corner and sees a NARROW STAIRCASE

leading to the third floor.

At the dark at the top of the stairs Wills and Wendy appear.

Charlotte smiles --

They arrive at the bottom of the stairs.

They smile and shake hands. Charlotte looks at them both

carefully for any sign of uneasiness. There is none.

Wills smiles and rubs his hands together --

EXT. BROOKLYN BRIDGE -- NIGHT

A TOWN CAR speeds toward Manhattan.

INT. TOWN CAR -- SAME

Wills and Charlotte stare straight ahead, each lost in

thought. The lights of the city illuminate their faces in

eerie flashes.

Finally, Wills glances over and smiles --

Wills breaks into a grin --

Wills laughs to himself, then glances up and sees the

reflection of the driver's amused eyes in the rearview mirror.

Wills smiles back at Charlotte --

Again, Wills looks up at the driver's eyes in the mirror.

They seem more serious now.

She touches her own chest. Her voice trembles slightly --

She turns in her seat and lifts an OPEN PALM.

He smiles at her as though he were indulging a child. She

looks him deeply in the eye and opens a button of his shirt.

She slips her palm inside, over his heart.

Still smiling, he doesn't move a muscle.

Their eyes are locked.

Ever so slowly, her face crumples and tears appear in her

eyes. She shakes her head --

She slides away from him, drops her face into her hands, and

begins to cry. Wills looks down, then glances up at the

rearview mirror.

Illuminated in flashes, the driver's eyes have taken on an

ominous, unblinking quality as though they were the outward

embodiment of his own conscience.

Wills looks out the window. When he finally speaks, his voice

is calm and a little cold --

Wills is stunned. He looks out the window, speechless, his

eyes small and frightened.

EXT. CHARLOTTE'S BROWNSTONE -- NIGHT

The town car is stopped at the curb, motor running, lights

on.

INT. TOWN CAR -- SAME

Charlotte and Wills sit in silence --

Wills has no answer. Charlotte slowly gets out of the car.

She leans back in, her eyes narrow with disdain --

She shuts the door.

INT. BROWNSTONE FOYER -- NIGHT

As Charlotte enters, we hear Wills' cab pull away. She moves

to the stairs and sees a LIGHT shining beneath the living

room door.

INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- SAME

Dolores sits watching an old movie, her eyes dulled by a

cataract of boozy fatigue. The door opens. She looks up and

sees Charlotte in costume.

Charlotte smiles feebly and plops down on the cracked leather

ottoman. She looks blankly at the TV. She sniffles and wipes

a hand across her nose. Dolores glances over, then back at

the set.

Charlotte is confused, but then puts it together --

She chuckles grimly, coughs, and sips her drink.

She coughs again. Charlotte struggles to make sense of it

all.

Dolores' eyes grow nervous. She swallows hard.

She realizes her poor choice of words. She looks over and

their eyes collide. Charlotte begins to cry --

Charlotte drops her head dejectedly.

She rises, gives Charlotte a nervous, awkward pat on the

shoulder, then crosses over to the bar.

INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Wills stands in the center of the room, looking around

blankly. He disappears into the bedroom.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Wills enters and sees some of Charlotte's clothes folded

neatly on the bed. A LITERARY ANTHOLOGY lies open, showing a

DRAWING OF EMILY DICKINSON.

He grabs the clothes and the book and puts them in a SHOPPING

BAG that she has left on the floor.

Then he walks into the bathroom. We see him gathering BEAUTY

PRODUCTS off the sink. He walks back in and sets them into

the shopping bag.

He looks around and spots a nearly completed crossword puzzle

sitting folded on the dresser. He drops that in the shopping

bag, too, then sets it by the door.

He feels a draft and spots an OPEN WINDOW. As he crosses to

it, he notices something on his pillow. A blank ENVELOPE. He

picks it up and rips it open.

It's a HALLOWEEN CARD of a grinning JACK-O-LANTERN. He opens

it and inside is handwritten:

The scariest night of the year and only one thing haunts me:

that we might never have met.

All my love,

XXX Charlotte.

Wills lowers the card and heaves a deep breath. His jaw tight,

he walks over and drops the card into the shopping bag.

INT. BROWNSTONE FOYER -- SAME

Charlotte emerges from the living room and shuts the door

behind her. She climbs the stairs to her solitary bedroom.

FADE IN:

EXT. UPPER EAST SIDE -- NIGHT

From amid the RUSH OF TRAFFIC, a TAXI CAB breaks free and

glides to the curb in front of Elysium.

Wills emerges with PATTY, 35, bosomy, bright-eyed, pitched a

little too loudly. Wills seems stiff and tentative, a shadow

of his former self.

INT. ELYSIUM -- CONTINUOUS

AN ELDERLY COUPLE passes them as they enter. Wills stops at

the coat check and helps Patty with her coat. She admires

the decor --

Although his spirits are low, he is effortlessly cordial --

She furrows her brow, squints, then laughs.

Wills hands Patty's coat to Melissa, the hat check girl, and

asks under his breath --

Looking at Patty, Melissa asks with deep sympathy --

Before Wills can respond, Patty takes his arm --

Jesus is surprised to see that Wills is not with Charlotte --

Celia approaches, equally surprised not to see Charlotte --

The NEW HOSTESS, Celia's replacement, arrives.

Patty follows Celia. Wills moves to the reservation stand

where John stands, stone-faced, flipping through the

reservation book --

Wills walks away.

INT. DOWNTOWN BAR -- NIGHT

Dark, smoky, and boisterous. FIND CHARLOTTE, standing with

Simon. She looks around disgustedly and shouts above the

roar --

ACROSS THE ROOM

FOLLOW SHANNON, coming out of the ladies' room. She makes

her way through the crowd--

She looks up and can't believe her eyes.

BACK TO CHARLOTTE AND SIMON

Simon, shouting above the music, speaks with difficulty --

Charlotte laughs and slaps him. Shannon approaches hauling

by the hand ERIC BALES, 24, small, beautiful, long-haired,

glasses.

Charlotte can't believe it either --

They hug and kiss with some slight awkwardness, then shout

above the music --

Charlotte laughs.

Eric smiles quizzically at Charlotte, wondering why.

INT. ELYSIUM -- NIGHT

Wills sits listening to Patty talk --

Wills smiles feebly. He looks away and sees John holding the

TELEPHONE, urgently signaling to him. Alarmed, Wills jumps

up --

AT THE RESERVATION STAND

Wills, fearing the worst, hurries to John --

John slams down the phone, grabs him by the arm, hauls him

through the reception area and out the door. Patty watches,

confused.

EXT. ELYSIUM -- CONTINUOUS

John walks quickly down the block, still hauling Wills --

EXT. ANOTHER BLOCK -- MINUTE LATER

John walks as quickly as he can with Wills struggling to

keep up --

EXT. ANOTHER BLOCK -- MINUTES LATER

John, walking a little more slowly now, cannot believe his

ears --

Wills winces.

EXT. ANOTHER BLOCK -- MINUTE LATER

John walks slowly now, backward, listening to an anxious

Wills --

He stops and leans back against a building. He looks around,

avoiding eye contact with John, as tears rise into his eyes.

Wills is still unable to look at him. John speaks softly --

Wills lifts his frightened eyes. John pats him on the cheek.

EXT. HIGH-RISE APARTMENT BUILDING -- NIGHT

Wills stands with Patty in the driveway in front of the glass

lobby. He is distracted and terribly anxious. She looks as

though she expects, at the very least, a kiss --

Relieved to have unburdened himself of the truth, he shakes

her hand. Patty, utterly baffled, doesn't know what hit her.

EXT. WILLS' BUILDING -- LATER

The doorman Michael, smoking a cigarette, sees Wills walk

up, his expression pensive.

Wills stops and turns --

He winks. Wills realizes that it's Charlotte. It must be. He

smiles and hurries inside.

INT. WILLS' LOBBY -- CONTINUOUS

Wills bursts in and freezes. A WOMAN stands across the way,

studying an oil painting. She turns quickly. It's LISA. She

sees his excited expression fall. Beneath her rather composed

facade, Lisa is a chaos of conflicting emotions --

An awkward silence.

His sincerity stops her. She softens slightly, mustering a

tiny smile --

Pause.

Wills chuckles. For the first time, Lisa relaxes enough to

take him in.

Lisa smiles, and, much to her embarrassment, tears come to

her eyes. She shakes her head at how absurd she is, treasuring

kind words from a father she doesn't know.

She sniffles and looks away --

Silence.

She stares at him long and hard, waiting for some more

palpable sign of remorse. It isn't forthcoming. Finally, she

nods.

She turns and walks away. His voice stops her --

She turns around, hesitates for a moment, then nods. She

continues to the door. But then she stops and turns --

She smiles simply and heads for the door. When she is gone,

Wells slowly walks back toward the elevators, but then

abruptly stops in his tracks, deliberating...

EXT. VILLAGE -- DAWN

THE CAMERA CRANES DOWN SLOWLY from a view of the sun rising

in the EASTERN SKY to a TAXI gliding over to the curb in

front of...

CHARLOTTE'S BROWNSTONE -- DAWN

Charlotte, looking tired and a little pale, pays the driver

and emerges from the taxi. She makes her way up the steps.

INT. BROWNSTONE -- CONTINUOUS

Looking down from the second-floor landing, we see Charlotte

enter and walk up the stairs toward us.

As she reaches the landing, she feels a STABBING PAIN IN HER

CHEST and stops walking. Wincing, she waits for the pain to

subside.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Charlotte enters wearily, drops her purse on the floor, then

turns and GASPS.

Wills lies sprawled in an armchair fully dressed, sound

asleep.

Charlotte is offended by the intrusion. She hurries over to

awaken him. But then she stops. Her face softens slightly.

She studies his face... touches his cheek with the back of

her hand... traces the lines at his eyes with a fingertip..

smooths back a wisp of hair.

Finally, snapping to, steeling herself, she jostles him --

Wills wakes with a violent start. When he sees her, he drops

his head back. He closes his eyes again and murmurs sleepily --

She crosses coldly to her closet and, half-shutting the door,

blocking his view, starts to undress.

He sits up, rubbing his eyes in the morning light.

Wills sits forward, more alert now. He exhales heavily and

begins:

She turns and looks at him. She feels herself relenting. She

turns away and continues undressing --

She stops, then glances at him with a flash of pain and

longing. Determined not to surrender to her feelings, she

crosses to the bed and throws open the covers.

She crawls into bed.

Wills, relieved, crosses to the bed and begins to undress.

He asks casually --

Thinking nothing of it, Wills nods. He slips into bed. Her

back is to him. He drapes an arm around her and pulls her a

little closer.

He smiles contentedly and closes his eyes. But then something

occurs to him. He opens his eyes --

He closes his eyes again. A few beats later, they open.

Charlotte, eyes still closed, breaks into a sly, amused smile.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST -- DAY

Wills and Charlotte, collars turned up against the brisk

wind, walk together. Charlotte wears a backpack. Wills tries

desperately to appear casual --

EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- DAY

They move down a winding walkway beneath barren trees --

EXT. WOLLMAN RINK -- DAY

Wills watches as Charlotte laces up her figure skates --

She burst out laughing --

EXT. WOLLMAN RINK -- DAY

Wills paces the bleachers, furious, while Charlotte skates

nearby --

Her anger startles him. She skates over quickly and skids to

an abrupt stop --

She turns and skates away.

EXT. WOLLMAN RINK -- AFTERNOON

Wills sits on the bleachers, miserably brooding, while

Charlotte gracefully glides by, laughing and chatting with

THREE YOUNG MALE SKATERS whom she's just met.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- NIGHTFALL

They walk together in silence. Wills is sullen. Finally,

Charlotte takes his hand and speaks gently but firmly --

Wills reflects.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Charlotte and Wills are little more than silhouettes, lying

entwined in the rich darkness, conversing in whispers:

Charlotte laughs. Wills smiles with sad irony.

He thinks for a moment, then smiles, and kisses her brow.

INT. MACDONALD'S -- DAY

Wills sits with John, Sarah, and the twins at a plastic table

overrun with food, wrappers, and squashed condiment tubes.

Sarah speaks to Wills --

Wills and John laugh. Molly, one of the twins, chimes in --

Wills gives both of the little girls hugs and kisses.

Wills shakes his head and smiles, reluctant to answer.

From the next scene we hear the sound of TWO DOZEN PEOPLE

BREATHING FURIOUSLY.

INT. STUDIO -- AFTERNOON

On a slightly elevated stage, HARI SINGH, 35, an American

Sikh wearing a white robe and turban, sits in the lotus

position before a lighted candle, softly instructing the

crowded class --

Hari rolls forward, digs his elbows into his midsection, and

pops up so that he is parallel to the floor with his legs

still crossed.

ANGLE ON THE CLASS, all moving into the pose. In the center

of the class are Wills and Charlotte, wearing sweats. His

arms shaking, Wills is clearly in pain. He mutters --

Wills laughs. A moment later, Charlotte winces and falls out

of the pose onto the mat. Hari looks over, confused --

Charlotte sits up quickly, smiling --

She glances over at Wills. He sees that she's scared to death.

He helps her to her feet, speaking softly in her ear --

She nods. They move toward the door. But after a few steps,

her eyes flutter, her body goes limp, and she slams down on

the mat, UNCONSCIOUS.

INT. SPEEDING AMBULANCE -- AFTERNOON

Charlotte lies on a stretcher near Wills and a PARAMEDIC --

But then she gasps as she's hit by a stab of pain. Wills

throws a grave look at the medic and squeezes her hand more

tightly.

EXT. ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL -- ESTABLISHING -- NIGHT

The building is brightly illuminated against the night sky.

INT. ST. VINCENT'S WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT

Wills sits, anxiously struggling with a half-finished

crossword puzzle. He hears the click of a lighter. A GRUBBY

LITTLE MAN standing by the coffee machine lights a generic

cigarette.

Pause.

Wills looks up and sees Dr. Sibley standing in the doorway.

INT. TELEMETRY FLOOR CORRIDOR -- NIGHT

Sibley walks Wills down the hallway --

They arrive at Charlotte's room.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- SAME

Charlotte lies in the bed with her eyes closed. An EKG monitor

bleeps steadily in the corner. An IV drip hangs by her bed.

Wills enters and sits down at her bedside. He touches her

hand. She opens her eyes and smiles drowsily --

Wills is terribly anxious. His speech is accelerated

He nods and inhales deeply. His heart is racing. She murmurs --

She smiles sleepily. Wills lifts a hand to her mouth and

whispers:

Her eyes drift shut --

Wills laughs, then clears his throat, and looks suddenly

serious --

He considers for a moment, then, tears welling in his eyes,

he lifts her hand to his mouth and kisses it.

INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- AFTERNOON

Wills sits across from Simon who strokes Shannon's back as

she weeps --

Dolores, sitting in her armchair, mutters as though by rote --

Dolores chuckles. Simon continues to Wills --

Wills falters, looking at him incredulously.

Wills stares at Simon, his face ashen and full of contempt --

Pause.

Shannon looks at Simon and burst into tears again. Simon

holds her even closer, rubbing her back.

MUSIC UP:

EXT. MANHATTAN STREET -- NIGHTFALL

Wills emerges from Charlotte's brownstone, hails a cab, then

decides against it.

EXT. CITY STREETS -- NIGHTFALL

Head down, eyes desolate, Wills walks uptown. The roaring

traffic, dense crowds, blaring music, flashing neon -- the

great welter of urban life is entirely lost on him.

He can think only of Charlotte.

EXT. HELL'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Wills walks down a dark block, his jacket open to the cold

night wind, his cheeks and ears burned red.

INT. HELL'S KITCHEN WALK-UP FOYER -- NIGHT

Wills enters, checks the tenant list, then presses a buzzer.

He speaks into the intercom and a moment later is buzzed up.

INT. WALK-UP STAIRWELL -- NIGHT

FOLLOW WILLS, running up the stairs. He arrives at a door,

cold and gasping for breath. He hears footsteps.

THE DOOR OPENS, but we do not see who is there.

MUSIC OUT:

INT. WALK-UP LIVING ROOM -- LATER

Wills paces, speaking desperately to someone. He seems on

the verge of a total nervous collapse --

He takes a deep breath to keep himself from crying.

ANGLE ON LISA, his daughter, sitting on the couch, listening,

her face unreadable --

Silence.

Wills, stunned, deeply grateful, allows himself a breath.

Lisa, flooded with compassion, wants to go to him, comfort

him, but she stays where she is.

FADE IN:

EXT. CARL SCHURZ PARK -- LATE AFTERNOON

The darkening sky is swept with a brisk wintry breeze. Shadows

descend from the trees and towering rocks. AN OLD MAN sits

on a bench, reading a newspaper. A NANNY pushes a baby

carriage past.

Wills and Charlotte walk together, bundled up again the cold.

Charlotte walks backward, her breath shooting out into the

cold air like smoke --

Charlotte laughs.

Charlotte smiles happily.

EXT. EAST RIVER ESPLANADE -- MINUTES LATER

Wills and Charlotte lean down on the railing, watching the

water purl and eddy around Randall's Island.

Wills looks at her darkly. She smiles and shrugs --

Wills sighs and looks away, reflecting --

She considers for a moment --

She looks at him and smiles. He puts an arm around her and

draws her close.

INT. TAXI -- AFTERNOON

Wills looks out the window, his arm draped around Charlotte

who lies nestled against him, eyes closed.

He suddenly sees something. He thinks. Checks his watch. His

eyes ignite and he calls out excitedly to the driver --

Charlotte, a little sleepy, comes to. She looks out the window

and her face softens with happiness.

EXT. THE BRICK CHURCH, 92ND AND PARK -- SAME

On the steps of the old church a CHOIR sings Christmas carols.

All around them, a LARGE CROWD sings along.

Wills and Charlotte get out of the cab. His arm around her,

Wills pulls her into the crowd. They join the carol. Wills

sings well. Charlotte is tone deaf.

In between lines of the song, she calls out --

She laughs and continues to sing.

THE CAROLS ENDS to cheers and applause. THE CHOIRMASTER steps

forward to a microphone --

He grins. The choirmaster nods at someone in the distance.

Then holds up a hand, fingers spread, and begins to count

down. The crowd joins in --

At that instant, ALL THE WHITE CHRISTMAS LIGHTS on the trees

of the median from 96th Street to 44th Street POP ON

SIMULTANEOUSLY -- an enchanted fairy-tale spectacle.

The crowd and the choir cheer and clap, cars honk their horns.

Charlotte's eyes are filled with happy wonder.

As another carol begins, Wills wraps his arms around Charlotte

and kisses her. He pulls away, looks deeply into her eyes,

and whispers with passionate sincerity --

For an instant, her eyes flare as though she were surprised.

Then her eyes fill with tears. She tries to speak but she is

choked by a sob.

She buries her face in his chest and cries. Wills smiles

with warm, almost paternal, indulgence. He strokes her hair.

She hugs him as though she'll never let go.

INT. ELYSIUM -- NIGHT

The restaurant is packed. John, overwhelmed by the crowd

waiting for tables, glances angrily away when he hears the

phone ringing and no one answering it.

INT. ELYSIUM KITCHEN -- SAME

Amid the Pandemonium, Wills watches as Charlotte teases HENRY,

30, the young chef, as he lays the beet garnishes on a fish

entree.

The door bangs open. John enters, looking angry --

INT. ELYSIUM OFFICE -- SAME

Wills enters, picks up the phone, and hits a flashing button--

INT. LISA'S LIVING ROOM -- EVENING

Lisa's face is flushed with excitement --

EXT. WILLS' BUILDING -- MORNING

A TOWN CAR is parked out front. Michael, the doorman, chats

with the driver.

Wills exits the building and gets into the car.

EXT. QUEENS -- MORNING

The town car speeds down the expressway.

EXT. LA GUARDIA AIRPORT -- MORNING

Wills walks quickly through the terminal.

EXT. CLEVELAND CLINIC -- DAY

Wills gets out of a taxi and heads inside --

INT. CLEVELAND CLINIC CORRIDOR -- DAY

TOM GRANDY, 35, long-hair, small beard, loose-limbed, wearing

scrubs, saunters down the hall, wearing a vaguely goofy smile.

Wills watches him approach with some apprehension.

INT. GRANDY'S OFFICE -- SAME

Wills listens to Dr. Grandy who speaks casually, more like a

benign hippie than a renowned surgeon. Charlotte's X-rays

hang between them in an illuminated view box --

INT. CLEVELAND CLINIC CORRIDOR -- LATER

Grandy and Wills walk together --

Grandy smiles and pats him on the shoulder.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Wills sits up, wearing glasses, reading a book. Charlotte

enters from the bathroom wearing a flannel night shirt --

He smiles at her. And she smiles back.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- MORNING

Charlotte lies asleep with her head on his chest. She opens

her eyes. The room seems strange. It's the light.

She rises up and turns around. Her eyes narrow with curiosity.

She crawls out of bed and runs to the window and looks out.

She can't believe her eyes. Central Park is blanketed by

deep snow and more is falling. She calls out gaily --

She runs back, laughing, and jumps on the bed, rousting him.

MUSIC UP:

A SEQUENCE BEGINS showing Charlotte and Wills during a day

of holiday shopping. The deep snow has slowed the city to a

crawl but filled everyone with good spirits.

Charlotte and Wills move from store to store; they buy

wreaths, garlands, ornaments, candles, and, finally, a

CHRISTMAS TREE and STAND.

Wills starts to lug the tree, but when it's obvious that

it's too much for him, Charlotte spots a GROUP OF KIDS

spilling out of a record store.

The next thing we know the kids are lined up, carrying the

tree over their heads like a battalion of ants.

Wills and the kids load the tree into the freight elevator

and squeeze in. There's no room for Charlotte. She'll take

the lobby elevator.

MUSIC OUT:

INT. LOBBY ELEVATOR -- AFTERNOON

Charlotte, carrying shopping bags, ascends in silence with

Michael. She has no interest in chatting. He, as ever, does.

Charlotte goes pale. The elevator stops and he opens the

door.

INT. WILLS' FOYER -- CONTINUOUS

Charlotte steps out right into the kids who are roughhousing

and laughing. Each holds a five-dollar bill --

INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- MOMENTS LATER

Charlotte wanders in. The tree stands erect. Wills, on all

fours, tightens the screws on the stand. He crawls to his

feet and studies it.

Then he sees her grave expression and freezes.

Wills stares at her for a moment, then explains without

apology --

For an instant she is surprised, but then her indignation

takes over --

Her face shuts like a trap. She walks toward the bedroom

door --

Suddenly, a sob catches in his throat. Charlotte, on her way

to the bedroom, stops and slowly turns around.

She speaks matter-of-factly, without judgment or feeling.

She turns and exits coldly to the bedroom. Wills sinks into

an armchair.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- LATER

In grey afternoon shadows, Charlotte lies on her side, fully

clothed under the covers, with her eyes open, thinking. She

hears something and looks back.

Wills stands in the lighted doorway.

She gestures for him to come. He walks over and lies down

next to her. She turns her back to him, so that he's spooning

her, but she takes hold of his hand, pressing it against her

chest and squeezing it like a doll.

For a long time, they lie in silence. Finally, she murmurs

almost inaudibly --

Fighting his emotions, determined to stay strong for her, he

holds her close.

The dam breaks and she is wracked by sobs. Wills closes his

eyes, holds her even tighter, and rocks her in his arms.

INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- THAT EVENING

Charlotte, still fully clothed, lies sound asleep. She slowly

awakens and sees that Wills is gone. She gets up on one elbow --

She waits, hears hurried steps, then Wills sticks his head

in --

Charlotte senses something odd in his tone. Her eyes narrow

with suspicion.

She laughs and starts to get up --

He closes the door.

INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- SAME

Wills runs back into the room. The tree is fully decorated

now. He dashes back and adjust some lights along the base.

He runs over, inserts the plug and the TREE LIGHTS UP with

LITTLE WHITE LIGHTS, but for the STAR AT THE TOP.

He grabs a chair and fiddles with the bulb inside the star.

THE STAR LIGHTS UP. He jumps down and puts the chair away.

Then he runs over and dims the lights --

He runs over and adjusts a garland. He runs back to the dimmer

and adjusts it again --

He runs back to the bedroom door and flings it open.

He looks into the room and freezes in the doorway. He backs

up a step, then, crying out, lunges into the room.

MUSIC UP:

EXT. WILLS' BUILDING -- NIGHT

Charlotte, lying unconscious on a stretcher, wearing an oxygen

mask, is rushed into a waiting ambulance. Wills, beside

himself with panic, is gently barred by a MEDIC from jumping

in with her.

INT. NEW HAVEN HOSPITAL LECTURE HALL -- NIGHT

In the reflection of a projected slide, a hand offers a

CELLULAR PHONE to Dr. Grandy, standing at a lectern in front

of a group of doctors. He stops his lecture and takes the

call.

EXT. MANHATTAN STREET -- NIGHT

The ambulance rushes, light flashing, sirens wailing,

downtown.

INT. ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL -- NIGHT

Charlotte's stretcher is rushed into the emergency room at

the same time that Wills' cab pulls up.

EXT. NEW HAVEN HOSPITAL HELIPORT -- NIGHT

Grandy is rushed into a MEDICAL HELICOPTER.

INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT

Wills looks up and sees Dolores and Shannon arrive.

EXT. SKY -- NIGHT

Grandy's helicopter speeds toward the City.

INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT

Wills comforts Shannon. Dolores looks up and sees Simon

standing in the doorway. Then a CORONARY CARE NURSE appears.

She asks to speak to Wills.

INT. MEDICAL HELICOPTER -- NIGHT

Grandy looks out the window as the helicopter swoops down

toward the lights of lower Manhattan.

INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT PRE-OP -- NIGHT

Charlotte lies, semi-conscious, on a gurney. Wills appears

in the doorway with the nurse.

EXT. ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL HELIPORT -- NIGHT

The helicopter lands and Grandy jumps out.

MUSIC OUT:

INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT PRE-OP -- NIGHT

Wills sits down next to Charlotte's bed. He touches her hand.

Her eyes open then close again. Her breathing is heavy and

labored.

Wills pushes a lock of hair off her brow, then whispers,

half to himself --

Charlotte's eyes open dreamily. She shows a faint smile at

the poem and murmurs almost inaudibly --

Her eyes close. Wills takes her hand and presses it to his

cheek.

Wills turns around and sees Grandy standing in the doorway.

The NURSE rushes over to the gurney and in an instant

Charlotte is gone -- wheeled with a bang through SWINGING

DOORS into the operating room corridor.

MUSIC UP:

INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT

Everyone is there now -- John, Sarah, Celia, Simon, Dolores,

and Shannon. Wills enters silently. He walks to the new

arrivals and greets each one with an embrace.

INT. CORONARY CARE OPERATING ROOM -- NIGHT

Charlotte lies on the table. Grandy's eyes, visible above

his mask, are fiercely focused on his work.

INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT

Shannon lies with her head in Sarah's lap.

Dolores, ignoring the sign, smokes a cigarette.

John and Celia sit side-by-side in silence.

Wills stands at the window. He looks over and see Simon

standing close by. Simon looks at him, his eyes sad but eerily

calm. Wills shakes his head --

A light enters Wills' eye. He smiles as he remembers --

But then Wills hears something. He turns and there's Grandy

at the end of the long hall, walking toward the waiting room.

Simon looks and sees him, too.

Wills looks at Simon with alarm. It's impossible. How could

Grandy be finished so soon? Wills looks back at Grandy.

SLOW-MOTION

Grandy moves with long strides down the corridor.

One by one, as they notice, Charlotte's loved ones react to

the sight of Grandy.

Shannon rises from Sarah's lap, looks at the doctor, then

covers her face with her fists, holding her breath.

Dolores crushes out her cigarette, her expression falling.

Celia touches John's back as he rises and walks over to Wills.

Simon's face turns to stone.

John reaches for Wills, but Wills advances a few steps toward

the corridor, almost defiantly, his eyes riveted to Grandy.

Grandy's head is down.

Then, ever so slowly, Grandy lifts his head and in one

decisive move YANKS OFF HIS SURGICAL MASK and THROWS IT

AGAINST THE WALL.

CLOSE ON WILLS' FACE as he realizes.

His mouth opens wide as though to cry out, but no sound comes.

INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- DAWN

Wills stands in the center of the room wearing his overcoat.

He is pale, exhausted, his face expressionless.

John stands, also wearing his coat, in the hall archway,

unsure whether he should stay or leave.

Wills looks at the Christmas tree, whose lights still burn.

He slowly walks over and pulls the cord from the wall.

The lights go out.

FADE IN:

EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- SPRING AFTERNOON

A COUPLE walks down the same walkway. They are deep in subdued

conversation. All around them spring is in full glory. Melted

snow. Trees exploding with green. Birds singing.

The man is Wills Keane, but he has markedly changed. His

dress is not so impeccable, his hair has gone grey at the

temples. His face, though still beautiful, has gracefully

turned the corner into middle age.

Walking at his side is his daughter, Lisa, now well along in

her pregnancy --

EXT. ANOTHER CENTRAL PARK WALKWAY -- LATER

Wills and Lisa walk together in silence, enjoying the perfect

afternoon. Then Lisa smiles crookedly and slaps his shoulder --

Wills looks over at the spot where he first saw Charlotte.

He smiles with wistful confidence then, a little awkwardly,

puts his arm around his daughter.

She is surprised at first. But then slowly, trustingly, she

rests her head on his shoulder.

And they walk.

