INT. EXAM ROOM - DAY

We're not exactly sure where we are. And we're not exactly

sure who's talking. All we know is that we are looking at a

foot. One bare foot with chipped red polish.

The toes open and then curl down as if trying to hide.

The CAMERA PANS to the other foot, which is also chipped.

Zoe lets out a sigh.    She speaks out-loud now.

DR. HARRIS (mid-fifties, jovial) looks up from between Zoe's

knees, the light on his head flashing right in Zoe's eyes.

Dr. Harris stands and takes off his gloves.

And now, for the first time, we see ZOE. Despite the paper

gown and worried look on her face, she's a late-30-something,

girl-next-door type. She could be your best friend.

He sets a kitchen timer and then pushes a button to raise her

legs. We hear the loud TICK TOCK of the timer.

Zoe smiles.   Maybe he's right.   Yeah...of course he's right.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - DAY

TITLE UP: FOUR WEEKS AGO

BOBBY, 39 (but says he's 33,) gay and gorgeous, opens a file

and points to a piece of paper.

Zoe points to a stack of potential donors.

INT. WAVERLY INN   - NIGHT

TITLE UP: EIGHT WEEKS AGO

Bobby spits out a mouthful of Sauvignon Blanc.

Zoe sighs and puts her head in her hands.

INT. MONA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

TITLE UP: TWELVE WEEKS AGO.

Zoe and MONA, Zoe's age but looks much older, sit at the

kitchen table.

Three CHILDREN run through the kitchen yelling and screaming.

A beat later, a TODDLER runs after them crying.

Zoe shakes her head.

Zoe shakes her head again.

Zoe shakes her head.   She becomes very serious.

We hear a loud DING.

INT. EXAM ROOM - DAY

Zoe opens her eyes. We're back in the exam room.      She looks

at the timer, which just hit zero. She smiles.

Then a tear forms in the corner of her eye. She wipes it

away. She wipes a tear from the other eye. Happy tears.

Then she looks at her legs high above her on the table.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE HALLWAY - LATER

Zoe walks down the hall with her legs pressed firmly

together, moving only from the knees down. Dr. Harris

passes.

Zoe separates her legs an inch.     And then closes them.

INT. WAITING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Zoe walks through the waiting room with her legs still

pressed together. She sees two PREGNANT WOMAN, touches her

own stomach and smiles. She finally feels part of this

exclusive baby club.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Zoe enters the elevator where there is a WOMAN holding a

BABY. Zoe smiles at them. Another member of the club...

The elevator descends. Zoe continues to stare at the baby

with a big smile. She stares for an uncomfortably long time.

Zoe looks down.    After a beat, she sneaks another look.

EXT. MADISON AVENUE - DAY

It's POURING outside. The kind of rain that turns umbrellas

inside out. NEW YORKERS run for cover with newspapers over

their heads.

Despite the rain, Zoe skips out of the building with her

hands in the air and twirls around. Realizing that she's

spread her legs too far apart, she snaps them back together.

A WOMAN pushing a baby stroller covered in plastic runs by.

Zoe looks uptown for a cab. Nope. Nothing. She starts to

walk, still keeping her legs firmly pressed together. She

rounds the corner towards the subway station and then,

miraculously, spies a cab.

She runs (little steps) across the street.

INT. TAXI - MOMENTS LATER

Zoe closes the door behind her.

As soon as the word comes out of her mouth, she notices

someone entering the cab from the other side.

This is STAN, early 40s, but looks more like a college kid --

faded jeans, t-shirt, cute, messy hair.

The CABBIE picks up his paper and starts to read.

Zoe grabs the door handle and then turns back.

They each get out.

EXT. TAXI - CONTINUOUS

Zoe and Stan stand on opposite sides of the taxi in the

POURING RAIN. Zoe crosses her arms.

That question is answered by the cabbie, who now peels out.

They both stand there with a taxi's width between them.

Zoe storms off with her little steps.

INT. 68TH STREET SUBWAY STATION - DAY

Stan and Zoe each swipe their Metrocards at the same time.

They enter the subway platform which is jam packed with all

the other NEW YORKERS who are shit-out-of-luck in the cab

department. Rain droplets drip from the ceiling above.

INT. 6 TRAIN - DAY

A packed subway car. Zoe and Stan are back-to-back, pushed

together by the crowd. Zoe tries to read her paper.

INT. UNION SQUARE SUBWAY STATION - DAY

Zoe and Stan walk up the stairs a few feet apart from each

other. Zoe does her best to ignore the obvious.

They reach the top of the stairs. The rain has stopped, and

the sun is just starting to peek through. Everything is wet

and has a magical quality.

Stan is moved by this.   What a thing to say.

They nod and separate.

INT. HUDSON PETS - DAY

Hudson Pets is a small but quaint West Village pet store

filled with dogs, cats and a few rabbits.

Zoe enters. Her dog, NUTS, a raggedy, pug-like dog with hind

legs in a WHEELCHAIR, bounds/wheels towards her, barking.

She gives Nuts a good scratch. JALISA, mid-30s, Latina

hottie, and Bobby run from the back.

Bobby and Jalisa high five.    Bobby then turns to Zoe.

Zoe smiles and heads for the back.

EXT. HUDSON PETS - NIGHT

The lights in the pet store go dark.   Moments later, Zoe,

Bobby, Jalisa and Nuts exit.

They all hug.   Bobby and Jalisa walk away arm-in-arm,

singing.

Zoe turns to lock up.   While her back is turned, Stan appears

from the shadows.

Zoe screams and drops the keys. Nuts, overexcited by Zoe's

reaction, starts to run/wheel in circles and then tips over.

Nuts is still on the ground, his wheels spinning.   Zoe sets

him upright.

Zoe allows a small smile.

This hangs out there for a beat.

Stan smiles meekly and then turns to go.

Stan lifts his hand to wave but doesn't even turn around.

Clearly, he feels like an idiot. Zoe watches him go.

EXT. WEST VILLAGE BROWNSTONE - MORNING

Establishing shot of a cute brownstone with window boxes and

a front stoop. We TILT UP to the third floor window.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Zoe is asleep with the morning sun on her face. Nuts is

beside her, his two little, lame legs hanging off the pillow.

Zoe opens her eyes.

After a beat, she gets up and walks to the mirror. She lifts

up her pajama top and looks at her stomach, sticking it out

as far as it will go. It's flat as a board.

INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - DAY

Seven WOMEN sit around the cramped living room of this small,

East Village apartment. At least one woman is nursing a

child that looks entirely too old to still be nursing.

This is the SINGLE MOTHERS BY CHOICE Support Group. CAROL,

40's, short hair, tank top and no bra, is the leader.

The women smile and nod. They are a proud, no-nonsense,

somewhat masculine bunch. LORI, pregnant with a buzz cut,

turns to Zoe.

Zoe looks around at her new "partners." There's SARA, the

one nursing the toddler. And TABITHA, a tall women with an

even taller afro and a nose ring. BRIDGET, a young girl

covered in tatoos. And several more...

Sara smiles and nods at her nursing child.

Dakota looks up from the breast.

INT. LE PAIN QUOTIDIEN - DAY

Zoe and Mona are sitting by the window sharing a plate of

pastries and a pot of coffee.

Mona cracks up and then stops abruptly.

Zoe takes a sip of coffee and looks out the window.

EXT. FARMER'S MARKET - DAY

The Farmer's Market is crowded with people. We hear the

sounds of a bluegrass band playing somewhere nearby.

Zoe spies the LITTLE GOAT sign. But Stan is not there.    She

looks around the neighboring stalls for him, but no luck.

She walks towards 14th street. We see the bluegrass band on

the steps by the subway station. It's not a big band, just a

few guys with an open banjo case and a sign that reads, "The

Organics." The country twang of the music is in sharp

contrast with the tall buildings all around.

As she gets closer, she notices that Stan is in the band.

He's playing banjo.

Zoe quickly ducks into the nearest food stall, OLIVIA'S

BERRIES. OLIVIA, mid-twenties, natural beauty, approaches.

Zoe watches Stan. She mindlessly starts eating some

blueberries out of the display pint. Olivia sees that Zoe is

looking at Stan.

Zoe nods and takes another berry.

Zoe now turns, confused.

Olivia winks and moves off. Zoe turns back and is now face-

to-face with Stan, who's smiling from ear-to-ear, his banjo

slung over his shoulder.

Stan takes two pints of blueberries and hands them to Zoe.

Olivia returns.

Stan puts his arm around Zoe and leads her away.   Olivia

watches them go with her arms crossed.

EXT. THE LITTLE GOAT CHEESE STAND - LATER

Stan walks Zoe through his cheese stand.

FRED, early twenties, white guy with Rasta-type dreads, looks

up from behind the counter.

Fred points to Stan.

Zoe smiles.

INT. HUDSON PETS - DAY

Zoe enters the pet store with two big bags of vegetables. As

soon as she steps foot in the store, Bobby and Jalisa accost

her.

Okay, spill it.

Who is he? What does he do?    How

do we know him?

What are you talking about?

Stan from the Farmer's Market?

He's called twice already.

Really?

Is he a farmer? Because that's not

okay.

No.   He makes cheese.

He's a pilgrim?

I don't know what he is. He's cute

and different and plays the banjo.

I think I like him.

What about the, you know, bun in

the oven?

I really doubt I'm pregnant.

You want to be pregnant. You don't

want to be pregnant. I'm confused.

I want to be pregnant. Of course I

want to be pregnant. I mean, I put

a lot of thought into this, right?

So what did Stan say?

He says to name any restaurant you

want to go to.

EXT. 8TH STREET - NIGHT

Zoe walks down 8th street. This is the first time we've seen

her really pulled together, and she looks hot. She turns

into the restaurant she's chosen for the big date.

INT. GRAY'S PAPAYA HOT DOGS - NIGHT

Zoe and Stan stand at the counter with an array of hot dogs

in front of them. Stan looks at the hot dogs skeptically.

She clinks his dog and then they each take a bite.

Stan nods, covering his mouth because the bite is so big.

There is a long silence.   They both stare at the hot dogs.

They clasp hands. Not in a high-fivey way, but in a

connected, we have so much in common way. Their hands stay

together, feeling the charge between them.

Zoe feels the blood rush to her cheeks.   Like everyone there

must now be looking at her.

She pulls her hand away. This has all gotten suddenly real.

She looks at Stan, almost afraid to ask the next question.

Zoe nods.   Slowly, she starts to breathe again.

EXT. PERRY STREET - NIGHT

They are now walking home together, arm-in-arm.

Stan interrupts by kissing her. And it's a great kiss. Full

of promises and answers. They linger there for a moment...

Zoe feels her heart jump.    She kisses him again.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Zoe is lying in bed with Nuts on the pillow next to her.    The

sun is shining and they are both waking up.

She gets up and goes to the mirror. She lifts up her

nightgown and looks at her stomach, this time with a slight

look of concern on her face.

INT. EQUINOX - DAY

Zoe and Mona are side-by-side on the elliptical machines.

Zoe is going very fast, while Mona is barely moving at all.

She gets off the machine.

INT. EQUINOX STEAM ROOM - DAY

We are in a foggy steam room with Zoe, Mona and a few other

WOMEN.

A few women look over.

More women look over.

All of the women are now staring at Zoe.

INT. ZOE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Zoe sits on the bed, holding a pregnancy test in her hands.

Nuts is beside her. He looks up at her.

INT. ZOE'S BATHEROOM - NIGHT

Zoe pees on the stick.   Nuts is beside her, watching with his

head tilted.

Zoe finishes peeing and looks at the test.   Nothing yet.

We hear the doorbell RING.

Zoe looks down at the test. Still nothing.      We wait and

watch the test. The doorbell RINGS again.

A faint PLUS SIGN is forming.

The plus sign then turns BRIGHT PINK. Zoe's heart stops.

There it is. Plain as day. Pregnant.

Zoe stands.   Looks at herself in the mirror.   And then...

INT. TAXI - NIGHT

Manhattan fades into the distance, as they drive over the

Brooklyn Bridge. Zoe cracks the window.

Zoe nods.   Her face looks pale.

Zoe nods again. Hasn't heard a word he's said. She rolls

the window all the way down and hangs her head out.

Zoe's POV. Headlights from passing cars whiz by, and the

wind swirls her hair into her face. Brooklyn approaches like

a bad dream.

INT. UNDERGROUND RESTAURANT/SMALL APARTMENT - NIGHT

Stan walks down a long table filled with appetizers. He is

making a plate for each of them. Zoe trails behind, beads of

sweat on her forehead.

He takes some for each of them.

Olivia approaches.

Zoe hurries off.   Olivia watches her go.   Eyes narrowing.

INT. UNDERGROUND RESTAURANT/SMALL APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Zoe hovers by the window, whispering into the phone.

Zoe hangs up the phone.

INT. UNDERGROUND RESTAURANT/SMALL APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Zoe is now on the phone with Mona.

Out the window and across the street, we see a drugstore.

INT. DRUGSTORE - NIGHT

Zoe runs down the aisle and empties one, two, three...what

the fuck, every pregnancy test into her basket.

Her cell phone RINGS.    It's Bobby.   She picks it up.

She hangs up again.

INT. UNDERGROUND RESTAURANT/SMALL APARTMENT - NIGHT

Zoe hurries through the living room, a packed drugstore bag

hidden under her arm. Stan comes up behind her.

Zoe jumps and accidentally drops the bag. The tests spill

out onto the floor. She quickly scoops everything back in.

Zoe walks off leaving him to ponder.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Zoe pees on eight sticks at once.

Someone KNOCKS on the door.

The knocking turns to an angry BANGING.

Zoe holds up the tests. One by one, the little windows all

show PLUS SIGNS and CHECK MARKS and DOUBLE HASH MARKS.

INT. UNDERGROUND RESTAURANT/SMALL APARTMENT - NIGHT

Zoe exits the bathroom with a wide-eyed, terrified look on

her face. By the bar, she sees a PREGNANT WOMAN sipping a

glass of wine. She rushes over.

Zoe makes hand motions at her belly, but can't say the word.

More hand gestures.

Zoe doesn't wait for her to finish. She rushes the bar,

pours a glass of wine and downs it like a frat boy funneling

a beer.

Outside, we hear a banjo and guitar tuning up.

EXT. BACK PATIO - SAME

Stan, JERRY and SCOOTER are just starting to play. A small

crowd gathers round. Stan starts to sing an old tune called

"Sweet Little Miss Blue Eyes."

Zoe appears at the door to the patio.   Stan smiles at her

while he sings.

Stan's POV as Zoe covers her mouth with two hands and bolts

for the bathroom, puking.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Zoe's head is in the toilet. Just when we think she's done,

she pukes again. Finally, she lifts her head.

She spies an unused pregnancy test on the floor.  One that

must have dropped. Maybe this will be the one with the

answer she's looking for. She sits back on the toilet,

mustering up all of her focus to pee again. She closes her

eyes.

But she can't pee.   She tries and tries.

She doubles over and pukes between her knees.   When she's

done, she holds up the test.

CU of the stick, which has no pee on it but is covered in

vomit. Slowly the test reveals a PLUS SIGN.

EXT. PERRY STREET - NIGHT

Stan and Zoe walk towards Zoe's brownstone. Stan is

practically holding her up. Zoe stumbles along.

ANGLE on Carol, from Single Mother's By Choice, approaching.

Zoe's face pales.

They walk on.   Stan looks at Zoe.

They reach Zoe's front stoop.   Zoe peers over Stan's shoulder

to make sure Carol's gone.

Zoe runs inside holding her hand over her mouth.   Stan stands

there for a beat. He calls after her.

INT. ZOE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Zoe lies in bed. Nuts sleeps beside her. Zoe stares out the

window at a flickering street lamp, her face full of fear.

EXT. SHADYBROOK RETIREMENT COMMUNITY - DAY

Establishing shot of a retirement compound in Queens.

INT. SHADYBROOK LOBBY - DAY

The lobby is well-appointed and cheery. A young STAFF works

behind a front desk area. Were it not for a scattering of

PEOPLE IN WHEELCHAIRS, you might think we were at a Ramada.

Zoe walks by the front desk.   ANNIE, an employee, looks up.

EXT. SHADYBROOK COURTYARD - LATER

There is a small group of WOMEN speed walking around the

courtyard. They are fully decked out in jogging suits,

visors and nose shields. The ringleader is NANA, 83, fit and

fabulous.

On the sidelines is ARTHUR, 87, with his walker and big grin,

as he watches the ladies exercise.

He struggles to get up.

Nana rounds the bend and waves enthusiastically.

Zoe looks at Arthur who's now watching Nana's ass, nodding.

Horrified, Zoe quickly runs after Nana.

EXT. SHADYBROOK COURTYARD - LATER

Zoe is now speed walking with the ladies. She mimics the

same strong arm movements and heel-toe foot action.

Nana gives her friends a nod, and they fall back several

paces. Zoe waits for them to be out of earshot.

Zoe closes her eyes.    Nightmare.

INT. NANA'S ROOM - LATER

Nana hands Zoe a cup of tea.   Zoe's eyes well with tears.

We talked about it for months. You

said it was what you wanted more

than anything in the world.

But this guy, he's...special.   It's

all going to fall apart now.

What makes him so special?

I don't know. He's very...real.

And funny. And different. The

other guys I've been with all had

their briefcases and their five-

year plans and their secretaries

they were fucking. Stan doesn't

have a five-year plan. I don't

even know if he has a plan.

What about a secretary?

Some kid named Fred.

I like him, Nana.

Well, if he's the right one, he'll

stay.

Do you really think so?

Gosh, I don't know. I hoped that

would be enough to appease you.

Should I still visit him for the

weekend? Or should I just vanish

and hope he forgets I ever existed.

Don't be silly. Go up there for

the weekend. Spend some time with

him and see what he's really like.

Yeah.   You're right.

Zoe looks at Nana.   Douchebag?

INT. CAR - DAY

Zoe is in the car. We are CLOSE on her as she talks rapidly

and a bit maniacally.

WIDEN to reveal Nuts in the passenger seat.      He's yawning.

Nuts closes his eyes and lays down.

Zoe sees a gas station and jams on the breaks.

INT. GAS STATION MINI MART - DAY

Zoe pours a massive cup of coffee. One of those gas station

Big Gulp cups. Even the TRUCKER next to her chooses a

smaller cup. Then, a look crosses her face.

The trucker looks at her.    She looks at him.

EXT. CAR - LATER

Zoe's car is now parked on the side of a highway in the

middle of nowhere.

INT. CAR - SAME

Zoe is sound asleep with her head back and her mouth open. A

small, empty coffee cup in her hand, crumpled candy bar

wrappers on the floor, and an almost empty bag of Cheetos is

in her lap.

Her cell phone RINGS. Zoe doesn't move. After the third

ring, she lifts her head and looks around. It takes her a

few moments to realize what's happened. She looks at the

little coffee cup.

She picks up the phone.

Zoe looks around.

EXT. LITTLE GOAT FARM - DAY

Zoe bumps along the winding driveway of this idyllic Hudson

River farm. There are red barns in the distance and green

pastures filled with goats and sheep. The house is an old

carriage house with a rusty weather-vane on top.

Zoe parks the car and takes in the whole scene. Stan opens

the front door, with a huge smile on his face. Zoe sighs.

INT. HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

They enter the front door.    Zoe takes in the charming

carriage house.

Zoe stops short.

INT. STAN'S BEDROM - MOMENTS LATER

Zoe lies in the small bed with the covers pulled up to her

chin. Stan stands above her with an odd look on his face.

But she's already out.   Stan gives her a little poke.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Stan enters the kitchen. His parents, JOAN and EDWARD look

up expectantly, as if about to meet their new daughter-in-

law.

We hear a SQUEAK, SQUEAK, SQUEAK coming down the hall.

The SQUEAKING continues and then all eyes turn as Nuts rolls

into the kitchen and stops. He tilts his head.

Joan and Edward take in the raggedy/wheelchair-bound dog and

then look at Stan. Stan shoots his mom a look.

INT. STAN'S BEDROOM - LATER

It's now dark. Zoe is asleep in the exact same position.

Suddenly, we hear a loud GRUMBLE. Her eyes open.

We hear the GRUMBLE again.    It's her stomach.   She puts her

hands over it.

Zoe gets out of bed and goes right for the Cheetos. The bag

is empty. She smears her hand on the inside of the bag and

then licks the orange cheese from her fingers.

INT. HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Zoe peeks out of the bedroom and looks both ways.

No one in sight.   She waits a beat and then whispers louder.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Zoe peers her head into the empty kitchen.   Nuts is with her.

Zoe stands there unsure of what to do next. Then we hear her

stomach GROWL again. Her eyes turn to the stove. Something

smells out of this world. She tiptoes over and opens the

pot. It's beef stew.

She makes sure the coast is clear and then looks for a spoon.

She can't find one. She spies a loaf of white bread. Grabs

a piece, folds it and then scoops up a heaping bite of stew

and devours it.

She replaces the lid on the pot. And now she just stands

there. And stands there some more.

She quickly takes two slices of bread and goes back in. This

time, she uses one piece of bread as a ladle and then the

other to turn it into a sandwich. She takes a huge bite.

Stew dribbles down her chin. She takes a third piece of

bread to wipe her face and then takes a bite of that one.

Nuts starts to whine and beg. Zoe uses her bread-ladle to

toss some stew on the floor for him. It lands with plop.

And now Joan enters. Zoe and Nuts turn, their mouths

bursting. Joan doesn't quite know what to do. All she knows

is she's supposed to be open-minded.

Zoe shakes her head no.     Wow.   This is embarrassing.

Zoe nods her head. Joan gives her one. Zoe holds it over

her mouth as she tries in vain to swallow this inhuman bite.

Zoe nods.   Still can't swallow the bite.

Zoe nods again. She tries to shake Joan's hand. It's the

best she can do. Unfortunately, her fingers are fluorescent

orange from the Cheetos powder. Joan pulls her hand back.

INT. DINING ROOM - LATER

The dining room is warm and lovely. There's faded wallpaper

and an old stagecoach lamp serving as a chandelier. Despite

the inviting room, Zoe looks very uncomfortable.

Zoe looks at Joan.      Joan smiles.    It will be their secret.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

They are having coffee and dessert in the living room.

Things seem more comfortable now. Zoe actually looks like

she might be enjoying herself. Nuts sits beside her.

Zoe nods.

Stan puts his arm around her and gives her a squeeze.

Zoe forces a smile.   If only they knew.

EXT. LITTLE GOAT FARM - NIGHT

The moon is full and fireflies dot the air as Zoe and Stan

walk the grounds of the farm.

Nuts trots/rolls ahead of them in a different wheelchair.

This one is more rugged, with mountain-bike-type wheels.

Stan smiles and shakes his head.

Zoe shrugs.

Stan takes her in his arms.

Zoe opens her mouth. She's got to tell him.    Before this

goes any further, she has to tell him.

INT. CHEESE CAVE - NIGHT

It's floor to ceiling wooden shelves all filled with cheese.

Stan ceremoniously unwraps a wheel.

Zoe stares at the cheese for a long time.

Zoe smiles.

EXT. DAIRY - MOMENTS LATER

The door to the dairy kicks open and Stan carries Zoe out.

Her legs are around his waist and they are making out like

crazy.

INT. HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Stan carries Zoe up the stairs. They are tripping and

kissing and now tearing at each other's clothes.

INT. STAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Stan throws Zoe on the bed and then peels off his shirt. His

body looks amazing in the shadowy moonlight. Zoe lies there,

looking at him before he jumps on top of her.

Zoe shakes her head and then melts into him.

INT. STAN'S ROOM - LATER

They are now on their backs staring at the ceiling.    They

look happy and worn out

Their P.O.V. Those little glow-in-the-dark star stickers are

all over the ceiling. There's barely any glow left.

Stan lets out a big sigh as he looks at the "stars"...

Zoe turns to him.   Takes a deep breath.

Now Stan turns to her.     They are face-to-face.

Stan finishes.    He looks at her and smiles.   Zoe just stares

at him.

Instead, Zoe covers her mouth and runs to the bathroom.     A

beat later, we hear her vomit.

INT. STAN'S BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Zoe is at the sink, furiously brushing her teeth.    Stan

enters.

He looks at her.   Sees the tears in her eyes.

Zoe takes a deep breath.

Zoe shakes her head.

Zoe nods.

Stan just looks at her.       Speechless.

They both stand there.    After the raised voices, the silence

feels more pronounced.

Stan walks out. Zoe stands there.     And stands there.   And

then she starts to cry.

INT. STAN'S BEDROOM - LATER

Zoe lies in bed awake.    Nuts is beside her.    They are alone.

EXT. LITTLE GOAT FARM - DAY

It's daybreak at the farm. FARM HANDS move herds of goats

from one pasture to another.

INT. GUEST ROOM - MORNING

Stan lies awake in a small guest room.   Joan enters and is

startled to find him in there.

Stan doesn't answer.   Joan sits on the corner of the bed.

Next door, we hear Zoe puking again. Joan stops.   Then,

wanting to seem open-minded, continues.

Another very LOUD HURL.

Another HURL.    Joan looks at Stan.

We hear the toilet FLUSH.

INT. CAR - DAY

Zoe sits in the passenger seat with the key in the ignition.

Stan leans against the car. They are both quiet.

Neither does Stan, who says nothing.    He runs his foot back

and forth in the gravel.

Stan still doesn't say anything.

She puts the car in gear and pulls out.    Stan watches her go.

His hands in his pockets.

EXT. MONA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Zoe stands in the hallway of Mona's apartment building.   A

beat later, Mona opens the door and holds out her arms.

Zoe walks slowly into her embrace. They stand like this for

a long time. Just holding each other. Until Mona's three

kids run out with wiffle-ball bats and chase each other down

the hall. A beat later, the toddler runs after them crying.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Zoe lies in bed with Nuts. She opens her eyes and stares at

the ceiling. Then, with a sigh, she gets up and does her

morning ritual.

She pulls up her nightgown and sticks out her stomach.    For

the first time, we actually see a little bump.

INT. EXAM ROOM - DAY

Zoe lies on the table with a paper gown over her lap. She

looks down at her feet in the stirrups. Sadly, we notice a

perfect pedicure.

Dr. Harris comes in with a big smile.

Dr. Harries readies the ultrasound wand and inserts the

device. He turns the monitor so that Zoe can see.

On the screen we see a small flickering dot.    Dr. Harris

smiles.

Saying these words out loud for the first time hits Zoe.

Tears fill her eyes.

Zoe's mouth falls open.

NT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - DAY

We're back at Single Women By Choice. The women are sitting

on the floor. Sara is still nursing Dakota. Zoe has her

head in her hands.

Zoe bursts into tears.

The women are sensing the sarcasm, but not getting it.

Carol takes a deep breath and then lets it out.

Tabitha, the tall woman with the nose ring, raises her hand.

The women stare blankly at Zoe.

Even Dakota stops nursing and looks over at that one.

EXT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - LATER

The women file out. No one dares look at Zoe. It's very

awkward, although Zoe seems unaware. She turns to Carol.

Zoe's face changes.     She starts to get it.

Zoe nods.

EXT. SHADYBROOK RETIREMENT COMMUNITY - DAY

Zoe and Nana are walking the loop around the courtyard. Zoe

looks terrible. Like she hasn't slept in days. They

complete a lap. Arthur gives them the double thumbs up sign.

Nana looks over at Zoe.     She sees the bags under her eyes.

They complete another lap around the courtyard.   Arthur

smiles at them and then "raises the roof."

EXT. LITTLE GOAT FARM - DAY

Stan leans against the fence looking at the goats. He has

the beginnings of a beard growing. The scruff makes him look

older. Thinner.

Joan approaches and stands next to him for a bit.

Stan nods.    We get the feeling he's heard this before.

Stan watches a nearby goat coaxing her baby to nurse.      He

shrugs.

She gives him a sympathetic hug and walks away.

INT. STAN'S BEDROM - NIGHT

Stan lies in bed looking up at the "stars." There's even

less glow now than last time. He sighs and then turns over

to try and sleep.

ANGLE ON Nuts' off-road wheelchair in the corner of the room.

Stan looks at it and can't help but smile.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Zoe and Nuts lie in the bed. They are looking at each other

on the pillow. Zoe scratches behind his ears.

Zoe goes to the mirror and does her usual. The bump is

growing. For the first time, we see a smile.

INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - DAY

The Single Mother's By Choice women are sitting in their

usual circle. Lori is passing around a list.

Zoe enters.   All eyes turn.    She waves sheepishly.

No one knows what to say.

Lori smiles and hands her the piece of paper.

Zoe smiles.

EXT. HUDSON STREET - DAY

Zoe has her head held high and her cute belly pushed out as

far as it will go.

A WOMAN with a double stroller approaches.   Zoe smiles.

Zoe walks on. She sees her reflection in a store window and

smiles. She looks like an actual pregnant person now. As

she is walking and smiling to herself, we hear a familiar

voice.

Her P.O.V. Stan appears next to her in the reflection.     For

a brief second, they look like a family.

Zoe turns. They both stop. Unsure of whether to hug or

what. They just stand there.

Zoe touches her belly.    Proud but protective.

A long silence.

Zoe nods.   Another silence.

A group of SCHOOL KIDS, lost in their own conversations, push

up the block, separating Zoe and Stan for a moment. This

separation makes the moment all the more tense.

Zoe smiles at the memory.      Stan continues.

Stan takes her hands.

Stan looks at her. Is she joking? Her look says no. He

takes a beat. And then, even though it's not a joke, he

starts to laugh. A little laugh at first and then a big one.

And then, Zoe starts laughing too.   The whole thing is just

so ridiculous.

INT. ZOE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

It's late. Zoe and Stan are naked in bed, lying face to

face. Stan puts his hand on her stomach. He feels the

little bump, new since he's last been with her.

Stan smiles. He likes this image. He runs his hand over her

belly. Zoe moves in closer. Touches his cheek.

They look at each other for a long time. Finally, Zoe closes

her eyes and settles in for sleep, with Stan watching her as

she dozes off.

INT. EXAM - ROOM

CU of a MONITOR where we see two distinct baby shapes

floating head-to-toe.

Dr. Harris holds the ultrasound wand to her belly. Stan

doesn't say anything. He looks on in total amazement.

They look at each other.      Zoe smiles.   Stan shrugs.   Zoe

nods. Stan does, too.

Stan gets tears in his eyes.

EXT. MADISON AVENUE - DAY

Stan and Zoe walk down Madison Avenue. All of the other NEW

YORKERS are on some kind of mission -- shopping, rushing to

meetings, or fighting for cabs.

But Zoe and Stan just walk slowly hand-in-hand. Every so

often looking at each other and just smiling or laughing.

Then, suddenly, Stan picks her up in the middle of the

street.

A WOMAN with a BABY in a Baby Bjorn passes by.   Stan smiles.

Now he's part of this exclusive club.

INT. UNION SQUARE CAFE - NIGHT

We PAN past several small plates of food on a table.   A chef

tells us what delectable items we are looking at.

Sam tops off their champagne and exits.   Stan picks up his

fork and starts eating. Zoe does not.

INT. MCDONALD'S - NIGHT

The CASHIER reads back Zoe's order.

Stan stands behind Zoe with an incredulous look on his face.

INT. ZOE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Zoe and Stan lie in bed, each reading a copy of "What to

Expect when You're Expecting."

Zoe has the McNuggets box on her chest. She dips each nugget

in three different sauces and then takes a bite. Stan

watches with a mixture of amusement and revulsion.

Zoe smiles and then slowly triple dunks another McNugget.

She takes a seductive bite.

Zoe throws the McNuggets on the floor and climbs on top of

him. She puts his hands on her body and then starts to kiss

him voraciously. After a beat, Stan stops.

INT. EQUINOX GYM - DAY

Zoe and Mona are on the elliptical machines. Zoe is going

very fast, while Mona is barely going at all.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Stan, dressed in a tux, sits on Zoe's bed.    He turns to the

closet.

A cocktail dress FLIES out and hits him in the head.

He waits a few beats.   Another dress FLIES out.

Another dress sails through the air.

Stan goes to the closet. Zoe is pulling on a long black

dress. She tries to smush her boobs down into the top.

Zoe turns to reveal the back.     The two sides of the zipper

are ten inches apart.

Zoe bursts into tears.

EXT. PERRY STREET - LATER

A cab pulls up in front of Zoe's brownstone. Stan opens the

door for Zoe who is now wearing a long silver dress. While

it's certainly hugging every curve and bump, it looks great.

Zoe pauses in front of the open taxi door.

She tries to bend at the waist, but the dress is too tight.

Then she tries to go in butt first and swing her legs around,

but again, the dress is too tight.

Zoe leans her head in and then has no other choice but to lie

down sideways on the seat. Stan tries not to laugh.

Stan pushes her legs, and Zoe disappears inside the cab.

INT. TAXI - CONTINUOUS

Zoe lies down straight across the seats like a board.

She sucks in her breath and tries to sit up. As soon as she

bends at the waist, we hear a horrific RIP. She bursts into

tears again.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - LATER

We PAN over the coffee table. There's a pint of melty Ben

and Jerry's, a roll of cookie dough (half eaten,) US Weekly,

and The National Enquirer.

Zoe and Bobby lie on the floor looking at the ceiling.

Zoe eyes well up with tears again.

Zoe feels her back.

Zoe smiles.   Tears come to her eyes again.

INT. PUCK BUILDING - NIGHT

Stan leans against the bar with a beer in hand. He is

watching all of the Farmer's Market girls and his co-worker,

Fred, on the dance floor. Everyone looks drunk and happy.

Olivia stumbles towards him with an empty glass of champagne.

The spaghetti strap of her dress falls over her shoulder.

Stan notices. She steps in closer.

She tries to kiss him.    Stan steps away.

Olivia pulls back, surprised.

INT. ZOE'S BEDROOM - LATER

Zoe is asleep in the bed. Her bump looks very cute under the

covers. Stan quietly gets ready for bed. She turns to him,

half asleep.

Stan gets in bed next to her.   Zoe scoots into him.

I miss my old ass.

Excuse me?

It was one of my best features.

You know what's weird?   I never

knew your old ass.

It's kind of like this ass but way

hotter.

I also don't know what you really

like to eat and what's just a

craving, or when you start laughing

hysterically and then crying and

you say, this isn't me, if that's

true because I don't really know

the real you. All I know is the

pregnant you.

That is weird.

Or like how you're horny all the

time? Is that you? Or is that

pregnant you?

That's me.

When all of this is over, who will

you be?

Hopefully, myself again.

But...who is that?

INT. ZOE'S BEDROOM - LATER

The clock by the bed says 2:30 a.m. Stan is snoring

slightly. Nuts is on the pillow beside him. Zoe's side is

empty.

INT. ZOE'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Zoe sits on the floor of the living room sifting through a

box of photographs.

We FOLLOW her back into the bedroom and onto the bed. As

Stan slowly opens his eyes, she holds up a photograph.

His P.O.V.    It's a picture of a woman's ass.

Stan blinks a few times.      His eyes adjusting.

She picks up another photograph. This one is of Zoe at

twelve and at her most awkward -- short hair, braces and

acne.

Stan props himself up in one elbow.

She picks up another picture. It's Zoe in a bathing cap and

Speedo. She's holding up a yellow ribbon and has her arm

around Nana.

The next picture is a Halloween shot of Bobby, Mona and Zoe.

Bobby is all in green, Zoe is all in yellow and Mona is in

regular clothes.

Zoe puts the picture down and picks up another. It's a woman

in a hospital bed. She's giving the thumbs up sign.

Stan takes the picture and studies it.

Zoe puts the picture on the bedside table, propping it up

next to her clock.

Zoe doesn't say anything.

This sad statement hangs in the air for a few moments.

Stan takes her hand, and they stay like that for a while.

Just holding hands on the floor of her moonlit room.

Finally, the silence is broken by the telephone RINGING.

INT. LORI'S APARTMENT BUILDING LOBBY - NIGHT

Zoe and Stan enter the lobby of an old building in Tribeca.

INT. LORI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

There are candles everywhere and a table of food and drinks.

Kind of like a birthing cocktail party. Zoe eats a brownie.

Carol approaches with Lori, who is wearing a caftan and

rubbing her large stomach. They all hug.

Lori drops her head on Zoe's shoulder and lets out a giant

MOAN. It's long and it's awkward.

Zoe nods.   This is weird.   Lori breathes through it.

Zoe stands there trying to come up with another excuse.

After a few moments, it's clear that she cannot.

INT. LORI'S APARTMENT BUILDING LOBBY - MOMENTS LATER

Stan looks up from the Hunan Lotus take-out menu he's been

reading to pass the time.

INT. LORI'S APARTMENT - LATER

Zoe and Stan hover over the dessert table. They both eat

brownies and keep their eyes down. Sara is next to them

nursing Dakota.

Carol walks by with a little DRUM, which she bangs

rhythmically.

Carol starts banging the drum again and moves off.

Zoe grabs another brownie and exits.

INT. LORI'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

In the middle of this very small, very cramped living room is

an inflatable baby pool. And in this baby pool is Lori, who

is now naked and pushing.

Zoe watches, horrified, the brownie still in her hand.    Carol

is beside her, playing the drum and chanting.

Zoe covers her mouth. It looks like she is going to throw

up. She stumbles for the door.

Lori then GRUNTS through another big contraction.

While Lori's eyes are closed, Zoe tries to sneak out.    Carol

chases after, still beating the drum.

INT. LORI'S LIVING ROOM - LATER

Carol beats the drum faster now. Some of the other Single

Mothers by Choicers join her in the chant.

Lori lets out a SCREAM as Tabitha and the MIDWIFE pull her

legs back. Zoe watches with both hands over her mouth.

The midwife fishes out the poop with a plastic bag.   Zoe

turns away, gagging. She drops her brownie.

Zoe turns back.   Her face white as a sheet.   Lori lets out

another WAIL.

Carol beats the drum faster as Lori gets on all fours. The

midwife lifts Lori's leg up to the side.   Lori lets out a

loud, WHALE-LIKE MOAN.

Lori's moan turns into a DONKEY-LIKE BRAY.

Zoe makes a desperate attempt to run from the room.

INT. LORI'S FOYER - SAME

Out in the foyer, Stan is paralyzed.   Next to him is Dakota,

who is crying.

Through the hallway mirror, he can see what's going on in the

living room: a hefty woman on all fours in a dirty inflatable

swimming pool with a hairy head coming out of a hairy vag.

INT. LORI'S LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Stan, walks backwards with his head down, holding a mirror.

Carol grabs the mirror and holds it under Lori. Lori lifts

her leg like a dog taking a piss and then starts to cry.

Stan steals a look, starts to dry heave and rushes to Zoe.

Suddenly, we hear a huge SCREAM.

Zoe and Stan turn just in time to see the baby emerge and

plop into the water.

CU of the baby in the dirty water still attached to the

umbilical cord.

CU of Zoe and Stan's horrified faces.

Zoe's eyes roll back and we:

OVER BLACK we hear silence. Blessed silence. No drums. No

chants. No screams. Nothing. Until, we hear the SPLASH.

INT. LORI'S LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

We are CLOSE on Zoe's face.    She opens her eyes.   Blinks a

few times.

WIDEN to reveal that Zoe is lying in the inflatable pool.

Her eyes go from side to side. The horror of the situation

becoming clear. A spongy, purple thing floats by.

Zoe's eyes roll back again and we...

EXT. 14TH STREET - DAY

14th street is just coming to life as the FARMERS start to

unload their wares.

Zoe and Stan head up the street slowly, wearily, like

soldiers back from battle.

They turn into the Farmer's Market.

ANGLE ON Fred unloading cheese from the back of the Little

Goat truck. Stan and Zoe slowly walk towards him.

ANGLE ON Olivia crossing from her berry stand to the cheese

stand with a blueberry pie. She is about to place the pie on

Stan's table when she looks up and sees Stan and Zoe.

And then Olivia notices Zoe's pregnant belly.

At the same time, Zoe notices the post-it on the pie.   It

says, SORRY ABOUT LAST NIGHT.

Olivia crumples the post-it and turns to Stan.

Olivia turns back to Stan, flabbergasted.

On Zoe's look of shock we...

EXT. FARMER'S MARKET - MOMENTS LATER

The fruits and vegetables and flowers become a blur as Zoe

runs out of the Farmer's Market. Stan chases after her.

Stan runs in front of her, forcing her to stop.

The minute he says this, he wishes he could take it back.

Zoe just looks at him. She shakes her head.

She runs to a nearby cab and slams the door.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Zoe enters the apartment and slams the door behind her. She

runs to the couch and collapses in tears. Nuts wheels over

and stands beside her.

INT. LE PAIN QUOTIDIEN - DAY

Zoe and Mona are at their usual table.    Zoe looks like she

hasn't slept.

Mona says nothing.   She looks like she might say something

and then doesn't.

Zoe's face changes.    She looks incredibly hurt.

Zoe leaves Mona at the table.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Zoe and Nuts lie on the pillow together.    Zoe scratches

behind his ears.

Nuts licks her face. She gets out of bed and goes to check

her belly in the mirror. It's actually getting kind of huge.

EXT. ZOE'S BROWNSTONE - DAY

Zoe walks down the steps. Stan is waiting for her on the

sidewalk. His hands in his pockets.

Zoe shakes her head.

Zoe gives him a matter-of-fact shrug and walks off.

INT. DR. HARRIS' OFFICE - DAY

Dr. Harris moves the ultrasound wand over Zoe's belly.   Zoe

holds up her shirt and watches the monitor.

Dr. Harris helps Zoe sit up.

INT. SHADYBROOK COURTYARD - DAY

Zoe and Nana are speed-walking.    Nana stops, excited.

They pass Arthur, who is in his usual spot, but instead of

leering at Nana, he's in his chair with his head back and

eyes closed.

Zoe stops dead in her tracks.

INT. SHADYBROOK DINING ROOM - DAY

Nana walks Zoe through the Shadybrook dining room.

Her voice trails off.

INT. ZOE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Zoe has her box of photographs.   She pulls out a picture from

the very bottom.

The photo is Zoe at age four and a man who looks so much like

her, that it can only be her father.

After a long beat, she puts it on her bedside table, next to

the one of her mother. The two pictures, side-by-side make

up a family. Zoe and her father in one shot and her mother

from the hospital bed giving the thumbs up sign in the other.

Over this image, we hear a quartet playing WEDDING MUSIC.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

The music takes us into the church and there we find Nana,

lovely in her wedding gown, and Arthur, dashing in his

morning suit, standing at the alter holding hands. Both have

tears in their eyes. Arthur lifts her veil and gives her the

sweetest kiss.

ANGLE ON Zoe and Bobby in the first pew, passing a

handkerchief back and forth.

INT. SHADYBROOK REC ROOM - LATER

Bobby leans against the piano singing a beautiful rendition

of "What a Wonderful World."

Nana and Arthur are alone on the dance floor.   It's their

first dance as husband and wife.

Zoe watches, her hands on her belly.   Mona stands beside her.

Mona takes Zoe's hand.

EXT. FARMER'S MARKET - DAY

Stan stares off into space. His beard is back.   A CUSTOMER

surveys the different cheeses on the table.

The customer looks up at Stan.

INT. SHADYBROOK REC ROOM - LATER

Bobby pulls Zoe onto the dance floor.

Bobby starts dancing. But really dancing. Justin Timberlake

style. Zoe smiles at the absurdity and then tries to walk

away. But Bobby won't let her escape. He blocks her path

and keeps dancing. This time turning around and shaking his

ass triple-time, like Beyonce.

A crowd of old people gather round. They start clapping,

thinking this is some kind of young person's dance routine.

Bobby takes Zoe's hand and smacks his ass with it.

The old people do the same. Trying to learn the hip new

dance the kids are doing. Several octogenarian couples

smacking each other's asses.

While this is happening, a weird look crosses Zoe's face.

Bobby jumps up and turns around to face Zoe. But when he

lands on the ground, his feet slide out from under him and he

hits the floor.

An OLD MAN in the crowd looks down at the puddle.

A few other old people look down and check themselves.   At

which point, Zoe looks down and realizes.

EXT. SHADYBROOK RETIREMENT HOME - DAY

The whole retirement community is outside throwing rice as

Zoe, Bobby, Mona, Nana and Arthur try to figure out the

logistics of the trip to the hospital.

All of a sudden, a white ROLLS ROYCE pulls up.   Mona's at the

wheel. She leans out and waves.

They all pile in.

And then the car pulls off, revealing a sign that says, JUST

MARRIED...FINALLY! "Ensure" cans tied to strings bump along

behind them.

INT. ROLLS ROYCE - LATER

Things are a bit frantic in the car.

Mona looks at Zoe in the rearview and does Lamaze breaths.

ANGLE on the mini bar, which is fully stocked.

Everyone (including Zoe) raises their hands.

INT. LENOX HILL HOSPITAL - DAY

Zoe is being wheeled into Labor and Delivery with the gang in

tow. Bobby still has a glass of champagne in his hand. Nana

grabs the glass and swigs it.

They look at Arthur, who struggles to keep up with his

walker.

Nana starts to hyperventilate.

INT. LABOR AND DELIVERY ROOM - DAY

Zoe is now alone in a room wearing a hospital gown.

Zoe jumps out of bed.

Zoe starts to cry.

Zoe wipes her tears.

EXT. 77TH STREET - DAY

Zoe runs down the street with a blanket over her hospital

gown.

INT. TAXI - MOMENTS LATER

Zoe jumps in.   The cabbie looks at her in the rearview mirror

EXT. 14TH STREET - DAY

Zoe runs across 14th street. The blanket flaps behind her

like a cape. She looks like a hugely pregnant super-hero.

And suddenly, she has to slow down and then stop completely

for a contraction. She leans against a parked van to steady

herself.

Out of the corner of her eye, Zoe sees an enormous strawberry

on the side of the van. And then next to it, she sees

Olivia.

As soon as the contraction ends...

Zoe takes off again.    Olivia watches her go.

EXT. FARMER'S MARKET - LATER

Zoe runs through the market looking for Stan.

ANGLE ON Stan's truck, where Stan and Fred are unloading

cheese.

Fred turns around and sees Zoe running. All belly and boobs

bouncing towards him. Her gown starting falling off.

Stan turns.

She keeps running towards him. He now runs towards her.

They finally meet. Zoe is out of breath and can barely talk.

Stan doesn't know what to say.   He's literally speechless.

Zoe bends over, holding her stomach.   A contraction.

The contraction ends. Zoe can finally smile again.      Stan

laughs and throws his arms around her.

They kiss again. And then pull apart and look at each other.

Stan has tears in his eyes.

People clap and cheer as they hurry out of the Farmer's

Market. Even Olivia, watching from a distance, can't help

but applaud the big moment.

INT. OPERATING ROOM - DAY

Some fantastic song that makes us want to cry is playing...

We are CLOSE on Zoe's face. She is smiling.    She does not

look scared. And she does not look alone.

WIDEN to reveal Stan by her side.

And we PULL BACK and above the operating table and see Dr.

Harris performing the C-section. He pulls out the babies one

by one.

We FOLLOW the babies as they get swaddled tight and handed

back to Zoe and Stan.

Zoe and Stan look at the little girls and then at each other.

They are both in tears. Even Dr. Harris can't help but cry.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

It's night.   Zoe is asleep.

She opens her eyes and takes a moment to figure out where she

is. She turns to the side and finds Stan sleeping next to

her, curled up against her in the tiny hospital bed.

To the side of the bed are two bassinets.   Each baby sleeping

soundly in a little pink hat.

And in the next bed is Nana, asleep with a bandage on her

forehead.

EXT. 6TH AVENUE - DAY

Nuts trots/rolls down the sidewalk wearing a sweater that

says, "I'M A BIG BROTHER."

We TILT up and see Zoe and Stan strolling arm in arm, each

with a Baby Bjorn with a rosy-cheeked baby girl in it. Both

girls have flaming red hair.

A woman pushing a stroller passes by.   She smiles at Zoe and

Stan. They smile back.

INT. GRAY'S PAPAYA HOT DOGS - DAY

They are now at the counter with hot dogs in front of them.

They clink dogs and each take a bite.

The babies smile and coo.

Nana and Arthur come through the door smiling.    Zoe looks at

them, confused.

And then Bobby comes through the door.

And then Mona.

And Joan and Edward. And Jalisa. And Fred. And Carol, Lori

and Sara with Dakota planted on her breast. And a priest.

And we...

INT. GRAY'S PAPAYA HOT DOGS - LATER

Zoe and Stan, still wearing the Baby Bjorns, stand face to

face in front of the guests and the priest.

And slowly, the sound of Stan's voice fades out and the sound

of Louis Armstrong's voice fades in...

And we watch Zoe's face as she realizes that there are some

things that really will last forever.

