A 5-year old girl wearing pajamas wanders alone down the

street.

Me-gan!

INT. PERIERA HOME - PRESENT DAY

FRANKIE crawls through a dog door. She walks into the living

room where the TV is on loud.

DEAN PERIERA, 30 years old, hefty, sleeps in a lazyboy.

Daddydaddydaddy.

Frankie uses the footrest to crawl up onto her dad's belly.

Wake up Daddy.

What time is it baby?

She sniffles. He notices.

EXT. PERIERA HOME - BACK/FRONT YARDS - PRESENT DAY

The back door opens and Dean carries Frankie to the yard. The

first yellow rays of sunlight hit their faces.

He looks over the lawn, an empty bowl, water tin and a

doghouse posting the name MEGAN. He peeks inside the

doghouse. There's no one home. Dean moves to the fence. The

gate is open.

Dean carries Frankie to the front yard. They look around.

When's she going to get back?

She probably just went out for a run.

She'll be back soon because she's going

to get thirsty.

She's going to be thirsty?

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 2.

You know what we should do? We should

leave her bowl full of water and her dish

full of food. Because she's gotta get

hungry and thirsty sometime. You know?

Dean's optimism is infectious. Frankie nods slowly.

Like me. I'm hungry. I'm so hungry I

could eat your toes.

Dean pretends to gnaw at Frankie's toes. Breaks her sadness.

INT. PERIERA HOME - BEDROOM - 6:12AM - PRESENT DAY

CINDY PERIERA, 28, sleeps in bed. Sunlight spills through

translucent yellow curtains into a small master bedroom.

Dean sets Frankie down on the bed, motions to her to be

silent. He sniffs the air. She follows. They eye each other

and pounce. Cindy wakes up with a gasp.

I'm sleeping!

We're hungry! We're going to eat you.

They pin her arms above her head and 'furber' her armpit.

Don't laugh. Come on, don't laugh!

Cindy doesn't laugh, she screams.

INT. PERIERA HOME - VARIOUS - MORNING - LATER - PRESENT DAY

Cindy, nursing a weight-loss drink, scans through digital

photos on the computer. We see - family on vacation,

Frankie's first day of school, Frankie and a black and white

Border Collie mutt - Megan. Cindy exports the picture when...

A tea kettle whistle blows.

Dean and Frankie sit at the table. He plays a song for

Frankie on a ukulele. Cindy gets up, turns off the kettle.

What happened to the flute?

Cindy pours the hot water into a bowl with instant oatmeal &

raisins. She blows on the food and places it at the table.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 3.

C'mon, eat, you can't be late today.

Frankie takes a tiny bite and makes a sour face.

I don't like it...

Cindy turns on the faucet over a pile of dishes, returns to

the computer to e-mail herself the missing dog flyer.

Here... we can make it taste better.

Dean spoons the raisins out of her bowl onto the table.

This is how a leopard eats.

He laps up his coffee like a cat. She mimics. Dean laughs.

Come on Frankie, use a spoon. You know

how to use a spoon.

Lepers don't use spoons.

Are you gonna listen to your mother? I

think you better.

Frankie reluctantly takes a tiny bite. Her face sours and she

lets the food fall out of her mouth and back in the bowl.

Cindy returns to the dishes.

How old are you?

Five.

Okay, eat five bites.

Dean gets up, goes to Cindy at the sink.

We gotta get a dishwasher...

Tries to take the dish sponge away from her. She resists.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 4.

I'll do it. Come on let me do it.

She drops the sponge, dries her hands.

Frankie! We're leaving in 15. Eat!

Frankie ignores her.

Alright...

She pulls Frankie out of her seat and carries her under one

arm to the back room. Frankie protests.

Dean watches, shakes his head. He sees the computer on,

Cindy's e-mail is still open. He shuts off the running water.

He scans through messages from a bunch of names of people

Dean doesn't know. He sweats, clicks open a return message

from a real estate company - apartment now available.

INT. PERIERA HOME - BATHROOM - MORNING

Look up for mommy... come on Frankie!

We're gonna be late... look up.

Frankie is propped up on the sink. Cindy draws cat whiskers

on her cheeks. Frankie tips her head back.

CINDY (softens) (cont'd)

Don't blink... leopards don't blink...

EXT. PERIERA HOME - MORNING - PRESENT DAY

Cindy backs their minivan out of the garage. Frankie is

strapped in her carseat. Dean comes up to the window, knocks.

Cindy brakes. Dean hands Frankie her backpack.

DEAN (to Frankie)

You be good today for Miss Alex, okay?

Frankie, dressed like a little leopard, nods.

DEAN (to Frankie) (cont'd)

Love you.

I love you.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 5.

DEAN (to Cindy)

Love you.

He kisses her on the corner of her mouth. A hesitation.

...Love you.

Dean pulls his head out of the window.

Put your seat belt on.

She starts to back up.

C'mon. What's the big deal?

Cindy does as she's told, looks over her shoulder, scrapes

the curb.

Watch...

Cindy cranks the wheel straight, puts on the gas and burns

down the road.

Dean stands there in his driveway, muttering to himself. He

watches the car disappear down the street.

Another car, headed the opposite direction, barrels down the

road, past the Periera home.

Slow that piece of shit down!

INT. CLINIC - DAY - PRESENT DAY

Cindy clicks the "print" button on a computer, moves to the

printer. It spits out a "Missing Dog" flyer.

DR. SAM FEINBERG - handsome, well-groomed, unshakable

confidence - appears at the door, with coffee.

There you are.

Cindy places the flyers in her folder in a rush.

Sorry...I'm almost done.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 5A.

You got a second? Did you get a chance to

talk it over with your family yet?

Yeah... I'm going to.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 6.

I don't have to tell you, it's a huge

opportunity...

I know I know. I should know for sure by

Monday.

All right, Monday's our day. I want the A

team up there with me. Talk it over.

Feinberg walks away down the hallway.

I will.

INT. VAN - DAY - PRESENT DAY

Dean drives with a beer in a koozie and a cigarette. He has a

coughing fit, rolls down his window and spits.

CHARLEY - late 30s, hefty, African American - sits in the

passenger seat. He pops the top to a Styrofoam coffee cup.

They talk about sex, women and broken fantasies. But Dean's

attention is on the side of the road, scanning the

neighborhood for Megan. He whistles sharp and loud.

Cheer up man. God wants you to be happy.

God's a woman and she's pissed off at me.

INT. CLINIC - DAY - PRESENT DAY

An ultrasound monitor, the abstracted image of a 20-week

fetus. Cindy watches Feinberg perform an ultrasound.

DR. FEINBERG (to Cindy)

Do you want to take over from here?

Cindy places her hand on the sensor. Feinberg places his hand

over hers. They gently glide it over the abdomen.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 7.

DR. FEINBERG (cont'd)

Easy.

Feinberg releases Cindy's hand and removes his latex gloves.

DR. FEINBERG (cont'd)

Very good, Cindy. You're in good hands.

Cindy is one of our favorites.

Cindy blushes. She is transfixed on the monitor.

Do you want to know the sex?

INT. SUBURBAN HOME - UNFINISHED HOUSING TRACK - PRESENT DAY

Dean smokes, works in the soon to be living room. He paints a

picture on the wall before covering it up with the roller.

INT. CINDY'S CAR - LATE AFTERNOON

She drives through a drive through and orders fast food.

INT/EXT. CINDY'S CAR- AFTERNOON

Cindy drives, fast food wrapper in hand, sees something out

the window. She slows down, waits for opposing traffic to

pass, then pulls a wide u-turn. She rises up out of her seat

to look at something.

Oh no...

She pulls the car to a stop, puts on the hazzards, takes a

moment to compose herself, unbuckles her seatbelt. Gets out.

ELLIPSE: A blanket covers a dead Border Collie mutt in the

gutter. Cindy puts Megan's body into the back of her van.

INT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL GYMNASIUM/DAY CAMP PROGRAM - AFTERNOON12

- PRESENT DAY

FOURTH OF JULY music recital. The Pre-K classes are lined up

on small bleachers. Led by their teacher, the kids sing "I'm

A Yankee Doodle Boy."

Frankie, steps out of her line of pre-kindergarteners to see

if her parents are in the bleachers. She spots her father,

jumps a little, and wonders if he can see her.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 7A.

Dean sits alone, picks paint off his hands. He does not fully

watch the children - he watches the door for Cindy to enter.

He wonders where she is - every possible scenario passes

through his mind. looks at the clock - 3:35.

Cindy arrives with haste, purse open, holding a big set of

keys in her right hand and a water bottle in her left. She

props her sunglasses on her head, looks around for Frankie.

She waves to her, but Frankie doesn't see her.

Dean spots Cindy by the base of the bleachers - relaxes. He

picks up his jacket, puts it on his lap, making room for her.

She looks around for Dean, spots him near the top of the

bleachers. Little waves. She climbs the crowded bleachers,

stopping to talk with parents along the way. She comes up

next to Dean, takes her purse off. They say "hi" but neither

one makes eye contact. Dean takes the water bottle from her.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 8.

Didn't think you were gonna make it.

Did I miss her?

Almost. Her class is coming up.

Dean kisses her cheek. Cindy settles, arranges her things.

You have a good day?

It was alright... Busy.

Anything good happen?

Cindy shakes her head "no." She drops her keys into her

purse, but they miss the target and she fumbles after them.

Is something wrong?

Cindy shakes her head. Takes the water from Dean. He stares

at her. She concentrates on closing the clasp on her purse.

Why don't you tell me?

She doesn't want to start crying. Dean gets visibly

frustrated. He's sick of prying everything out of her.

Why do you gotta make me beg? I know

there's something wrong. It's gonna come

out eventually. Just tell me.

The song ends. A patter of applause. The teacher introduces

the next song "THE BATTLE HYMN OF THE REPUBLIC".

I found Megan.

That's great, where?

Cindy doesn't answer. She can't. She tries to keep from

crying. He quickly realizes what she's trying to tell him.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 8A.

Where?

Over on Urbandale... near Spur.

I told you you gotta close that fucking

gate.

Cindy wipes tears. She has to look up and blink to keep them

from rolling down her cheek. Dean puts his arm around her,

holds her close. She tries to pull away. He won't let her.

I'm sorry. It's not your fault.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 9.

Frankie sees her Mother and Father huddled together. She

sings louder.

EXT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL/DAY CAMP PROGRAM. AFTERNOON.

Cindy sits in her car, checking her eyes in the rear view

mirror. They are puffy. Frankie runs full speed into Dean's

arms. He picks her up and walks her to Cindy's car.

You were great.

Did you find Megan?

No. But... I was thinking... Maybe she

got a job or something... You know? So

she could make some money and buy some

food. Or maybe she moved out to Hollywood

to become a movie dog!

Frankie nods. Dean gets her to the car. Straps her in.

I was thinking...you should have some fun

tonight1 Don't you think?

Yeah!

Cindy listens in the front seat. She doesn't approve.

EXT. HELLER HOME - AFTERNOON - PRESENT DAY

The door opens to a grandpa in shorts and a bathrobe wearing

navy scuba gear, JERRY HELLER - early 70's. He has a tube

under his nose attached to an oxygen tank. His porch and

front yard are overloaded with Fourth of July decorations.

Pa!

Jerry growls at Frankie. She screams, scared but delighted. A

yapping dog named SAMMY jumps on her. Jerry nods at Dean who

keeps his distance by the van.

Aren't you coming up?

Dean gives a sour look and lights a cigarette.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 9A.

He's an old man.

What? I can't smoke around his oxygen.

Cindy gives Dean a slow look of contempt, grabs the backpack

and walks toward the house. Jerry stands over the hose spigot

with Frankie at his side.

...Want me to show you a magic trick?

Here's how you turn the grass green. You

can teach it to your dad.

The sprinkler jets on. Cindy comes up and kisses her dad on

the cheek. She straightens Frankie's ears.

Go say goodbye to Daddy. You're not going

to see him until tomorrow.

Jerry holds Frankie back.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 10.

Wait...! OK...one, two, three GO!

Frankie runs to Dean, dodging the water stream. She hugs his

leg. He picks her up.

Hey leopard. You be good now. You

remember what to do when Pa snores?

Cover his mouth and hold his nose.

That's my girl. Gimme a squeezer.

Dean hugs her and she squeezes back as hard as her arms

allow. Dean plays as if his neck was being pinched off. He

sets her on the ground running back to the porch. She gets

caught in the diameter of the sprinkler spray. She screams as

the water chases her.

It got you! Go right! OTHER RIGHT!

Dean and Cindy both laugh. Their eyes meet for the first time

in days, maybe weeks. They exchange a brief smile, filled

with mutual love, pride and respect - connected by their

little girl. Frankie stands in front of Cindy, water drips

from her bangs.

Come on silly. Let's go in and get dry.

I don't wanna take off my costume!

You don't have to. Let's just go in.

Cindy leads Frankie with one hand and pulls Jerry's oxygen

tank with the other. Jerry takes Frankie's free hand.

Dean smokes and watches... Cindy hold the screen open with

her foot and maneuver father, tank and child inside. The

screen door closes. Sammy barks at Dean through the screen

door. He tugs his smoke, memories flood. He drifts...

EXT. CITY STREETS. DOG WALKING. DAY. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

The sound of barking. A YOUNGER DEAN, 24, walks 10 dogs.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 11.

INT. DEAN'S FRIEND'S APARTMENT - LATE DAY. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

Dean comes inside from the cold. He tries to walk in quietly -

not disturbing Jake who's watching TV in the back bedroom. He

goes to say "hi" but decides he'd rather not disturb him.

Dean sits on the couch which he uses as a bed. He pulls his

travelling bag from underneath the coffee table, digs around

for a long sock where he keeps his money. He stuffs his day's

pay ($45), in the sock with the rest of his $ (about $100).

In the kitchen, he opens the fridge. There is a pie tin with

one last slice of pumpkin pie. Walks to Jake's room. Stands

in the doorway. Jake doesn't acknowledge him.

Hey man... Can I have a slice of that

pie?

EXT. CITY STREET - DOG WALKING - MORNING. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

A dog poops on the sidewalk. Dean gets his little bag ready.

Sees - a light post with flyers taped to it. Dean reads - MEN

WANTED-$22/hr. He tears it down.

EXT. BUS STOP. MORNING.

Dean waits for the bus to come.

INT. STORAGE FACILITY/MOVING COMPANY - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER 18

Dean enters, hair combed, still wet, with fresh teeth marks.

JO - 36, receptionist sits beyond a scratched window. Dean

pulls out the folded flyer and asks if they have any work.

You're gonna have to speak with Mr.

Saned, honey. Wait just a minute, okay.

Dean sits on a chair, smooths his hair, smells his clothes.

INT. GARAGE - LATER - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Saned - huge hands, the boss - leads Dean through a large,

open garage, lined with many sizes of moving trucks.

Normally we are busiest at the beginning

of the month. You break your back for two

weeks, you get 2 weeks to rest. That's

normal. Days start early.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 12.

You'll work on a crew of 4. The rate for

4 men is $122/hour.$40 goes to the truck.

You split the rest. Plus tips. Policy on

tardiness; you work for the day you don't

get paid. You're late two times; don't

bother coming back. Any questions, talk

to Curtis. He's your supervisor.

WORKERS eye Dean. He introduces himself. Shake hands.

INT. TRUCK - EARLY MORNING - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean rides in the back of a 20 foot truck. The wind is cold.

He warms his hands with his breath.

INT. HOME #1 - MORNING - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean lifts two large boxes and moves toward the stairs.

Whoa whoa. You gonna break your neck

homey. Look down.

Dean does. All he sees is brown box.

Can't see your feet. If you can't see

your feet, how you gonna know where the

step is? You goin' bust your ass.

Curtis takes the boxes from Dean and demonstrates.

Turn around.

Curtis hefts the boxes on Dean's back. He pulls his arms

around the back to hold onto them in an awkward position.

You gotta be a mule. Always carry on your

back. Give `er a try.

Dean is unsure. He proceeds, imbalanced down the stairs.

He makes it to the truck where Saned waits to help him get

the boxes in. Dean can't quite manage a 30-pound, behind the

back hand-off. He ends up spilling up the boxes and their

contents all over the sidewalk. Saned gets pissed. Dean gets

down on his hands and knees and packs up the boxes - quickly.

MOVING MONTAGE: HOME #2

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 13.

- DEAN POURS HIMSELF A GLASS OF MILK FROM A CLIENT'S

REFRIGERATOR. HE CHUGS IT.

- DEAN STACKS BOXES LIKE BLOCKS AND TAP DANCES TO KEEP WARM. 23

HE SINGS A SONG TO HIMSELF.

- DEAN HOISTS A 6' TALL DRESSER WITH DRAWERS ON HIS BACK.

CURTIS TIES A BLUE BLANKET AROUND HIM TO SECURE HIS LOAD.

DEAN WALKS OUT OF THE TRUCK AND INTO A NEW APARTMENT.

- CURTIS HANDS OUT THE DAY'S MONEY, PLUS TIP. DEAN COUNTS HIS25

CUT - $327. NOT BAD. BUT HIS BACK FEELS BROKEN.

INT. DEAN'S FRIEND'S APARTMENT. DAY. 6 YEARS EARLIER

- Dean puts $300 in an envelope, seals it, and writes "THANKS

PAL." He slides the envelope under Jake's door.

- He lays on the couch, wrapped up in a white sheet, smoking

a cigarette. Tries to stretch his back.

INT/EXT. HOME #1. TRUCK. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

LUNCH-TIME. Dean, Curtis sit in the bed of the truck, legs

dangling. They eat hamburgers and talk about girls.

INT. DEAN'S FRIEND'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM. MORNING.

Dean showers, tries to stretch his aching back.

EXT/INT. BROWNSTONE. (HOME #3) MORNING. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

A fifty something MAN helps an ELDERLY MAN navigate his

walker down the stairs of his neglected Brownstone. Dean

holds a ream of unfolded cardboard boxes and can't help but

stare. Curtis slaps him on the back.

Gonna happen to you someday too.

INT. BROWNSTONE. MORNING.

INSIDE. Dank, dark home. 0 upkeep. The smell makes Dean hold

back a gag. Curtis climbs the stairs to the 2nd floor.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 14.

I don't think that old man's been up here

in 10 years.

Saned elbows in with rolls of tape and contractor bags.

SANED (TO DEAN)

Box up everything on the first floor.

Toss everything else.

- Dean finds jars of yellow liquid everywhere. "What's this?"

He opens a jars and is overwhelmed by the stench of urine.

It's fucking pee!

- He runs to the toilet and pukes in to a shit stained

porcelain bowl. Saned berates him for wasting time.

How could you live like this?

- He ties a bandana around his nose. Gets back to packing. -

boxes full of the old man's life (religious items, framed

pictures, old cameras and reams of polaroids). - Boxes are

packed, taped and stacked.

EXT. BROWNSTONE. MORNING.

Bags of garbage dump into a 20' rented dumpster out in the

street. - Dean and Curtis heft an old couch into the

dumpster. - Barren home reveals a sagging floor. Ghostly

impressions on walls where pictures used to hang. - The truck

takes off, leaving a full dumpster behind.

EXT/INT. TRUCK/ROAD. AFTERNOON. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

- Dean and crew cut out of the city. It's the first time Dean

has seen nature in the longest. Breathes deep.

INT. RETIREMENT HOME. LATE AFTERNOON. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

- The crew carries boxes down a hallway to a single room. A

sign on the door reads, "Welcome home Walter!!!"

How we s'posed to fit all this in here?

- Dean and Curtis move a dresser against the wall. - He

hammers a nail in the wall. Places a framed picture up. -

Unpacks the old man's clothes, folds them, puts them in

drawers. - Replaces the light bulb on a burned out lamp.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 15.

- Wipes clean old pictures and knickknacks using toilet

paper,. - Saned carries in a box of food - cans of soup, etc.

Last one. Lets get a move on. Gotta make

it home for the game.

Dean holds up the man's wedding picture.

Look how handsome he was.

What are you fucking queer?

Saned hands Dean a wad of bills.

Finish up, we gotta 2 hour drive back.

Saned walks down the hall, calling out to hurry up. Dean sets

the bills down on the dresser. Continues to arrange the

things. He stares at a picture of old man and his wife.

ELLIPSE - A nurse wheels Walter down the hallway and

introduces him to his new room.

Wait up. We gotta do this right...

He takes the wheelchair from the nurse, wheels Walter out of

the room, picks him out out of his wheelchair, and carries

him back into the room across the threshold of his new home.

You are gonna be the new stud in this

place.

Dean sets him down in a recliner, then gives him a tour of

his room - tells him which drawer his socks are in, where put

the aftershave, etc. Curtis pokes his head around the corner.

Boss says we gotta go. We gotta go.

Dean cuts the tour short, wishes the old man luck and tells

him he'll come visit him someday. He backs out of the

doorway, grabs his money off the dresser, and says goodbye.

Dean turns and is frozen in his tracks. Something or someone

makes his expression change to that of wonder, eyes fill with

love... he puts the money in his pocket.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 15A.

INT. MINI VAN. DRIVING. AFTERNOON. PRESENT DAY

Cindy pulls into the driveway behind Dean's van. He walks

around her mini van and directs her to open the back hatch.

She presses the button from inside. Hatch opens. She gathers

the stack of missing dog flyers in the seat next to her.

EXT. PERIERA HOME- BACKYARD- PRESENT DAY

Dean buries Megan by the fence. He places a stone on the

mound as a marker. He stands over it, smoking a cigarette.

Cindy looks on from the porch, arms hugging her body. Dean

walks to her and wraps his arms around her. Her arms fall and

move up to touch his side.

What are we going to tell her?

We'll tell her Monday. After the weekend.

Let's not ruin her Holiday.

Dean turns Cindy around, closes his eyes, and hugs her.

She would have wanted to say goodbye.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 16.

INT/EXT. PERIERA HOME - CONTINUOUS

- Cindy washes dishes, straightens up the house.

OUTSIDE - Dean sits in Frankie's little rocking chair,

smoking a cigarette. He looks out over his lawn. - Picks up

frozen dog poop with a little shovel, rinses out Megan's

bowls with the hose. - He watches Cindy inside, cleaning. He

looks at his house. Remembers something.

INT/EXT. PERIERA HOME - CONTINUOUS

He comes in through the sliding glass door and steps over

Cindy who is on the floor picking up Frankie's Hotwheels. He

yanks open a junk drawer and pulls out items.

You remember where we put...

Cindy stops and watches him. He holds up a gift certificate

in an old anniversary card.

Here! Let's get the fuck out of here.

Dean grabs the phone and dials.

DEAN (on phone) (cont'd)

Hello, I want to see if I can reserve a

room for the night... tonight. I have a

gift certificate but I don't know if it's

still good. Can I give you a number?

7G263?...

What are you doing?

Taking us away. We gotta get outta this

house.

(Back to phone)

It's still good? Good... Well, what rooms

do you got?...Hold on a minute...

Dean lowers the receiver to his neck.

What room do you want? The North Pole,

the Moon Room or Cupid's cave. Which one?

Cindy shakes her head.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 17.

I don't want to hear any excuses. We're

going. We deserve it. One night. Because

we belong to each other. Pick a room.

You're crazy.

You're not going to decide? I'll decide.

That's how decisions get made.

Dean gets a shit-eating grin.

Come on let's go get drunk.

He returns to the phone.

Give us the moon room. Periera. P-E-R-I-

E-R-A... 2... Great...

Dean hangs up.

Pack our bags. We're going to the moon!

EXT. LIQUOR MART PARKING LOT. AFTERNOON. PRESENT DAY.

They argue about who's gonna go in.

INT. LIQUOR MART - AFTERNOON - PRESENT DAY

- Cindy jerks out a grocery cart, pushes it, scans the aisles

of the massive liquor store. - Tucks two large bottles of

champagne under her arm. - she tries on different pairs of

sunglasses at the display. She assumes the character that

each pair suggests. She is a tough guy cop when...

BOBBY (O.S.)

Is that Cindy Heller?

Cindy turns and sees BOBBY ONTARIO, her college sweetheart.

She lifts the glasses on her head, blood rushes to her face.

Bobby Ontario?

EXT. GAS STATION - AFTERNOON - PRESENT DAY

Dean fills his tank.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 18.

INT. LIQUOR MART - AFTERNOON - PRESENT DAY

Cindy pushes her cart down the aisle along side Bobby, 30

years old, fit. TAYLOR, a small toddler sits in his cart

wearing overalls and a backward baseball cap like his daddy.

...So, you been faithful to him?

That's a strange question to ask someone

you haven't seen in forever.

I'm a strange person.

Cindy laughs.

No seriously.

Yes.

Yes you have or yes you haven't?

Yes...I haven't. I mean I have...I have

been...Why are you looking at me like

that?

I'm not looking at you like anything.

Oh OK.

It's hard to be faithful. I don't know if

monogamy is possible, especially if

you're a man...

Who's this?

This is Taylor. He's two. Got a little

girl at home. Irene.

Wow...

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 19.

Kids are great. They pick up on things so

fast. Like watch... Hey Spence, give me

five... Give me five, buddy.

Drooling, and with a toothless smile, Taylor gives his daddy

five. Bobby beams.

Give Cindy five.

Taylor holds up his hand limply so that Cindy has to give him

an awkward five. Bobby laughs. They reach the register.

To see yourself in your kid's face... I

never experienced anything like that.

I know...

There is an uncomfortable silence between them. Cindy starts

to unload her purchases.

I'm really happy for you.

How's your kid?

She's good.

Pause. They speak at the same time.

They stop. Cindy concedes.

You go...

No, you go...

Oh... I was going to say, you ask her

what kind of hair she's got and she says,

a bob. It's pretty funny.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 20.

Cindy smiles at the ground. Bobby eyes her purchases - a

bottle of vodka, cheap champagne, mixers, snacks.

What's her name?

Frankie.

Fumbling, she starts bagging her groceries.

That's $58.42.

Cindy hands the CHECKER a fifty. The Checker holds it out.

$58.42.

Oh...I'm sorry.

Cindy searches her wallet, goes into her change purse.

How much was the vodka?

The Checker looks at the receipt.

$11.99.

Can I put that back? I'm sorry...

Bobby holds out a twenty dollar bill.

I got it.

Nothankyou.

Just take it off please.

Bobby drops the bill on the scanner.

You can get me back.

EXT. LIQUOR MART - PARKING LOT - AFTERNOON - PRESENT DAY

Cindy pushes the cart hurriedly, stolen shades on her head.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 21.

Dean blows on a hot cup of coffee. Cindy moves fast, loads in

the bags next to their luggage, slams the hatch closed and

snatches the keys from Dean's hands.

Let's go.

You're drivin'?

Cindy hops in the driver's seat. Dean rides on the end of the

buggy and crashes it into the buggy corral. She fires up the

engine and honks. He throws his hands up.

INT. MINI VAN - LATE AFTERNOON - PRESENT DAY

Cindy drives the car along a windy, mountain road. Dean keeps

a lidless cup of coffee from spilling.

Alright, lead foot. It's not a race.

Cindy is zoned into the road. She turns off the radio.

Isn't it funny how you can be driving for

20 minutes and it feels like you've only

been driving for 20 seconds. The time

just gets swallowed up somewhere...

Dean places his hand on Cindy's hand that rests on the car

seat. A small squeeze. She squeezes back. Dean looks at her

with tenderness. Her eyes are on the road. She lifts her hand

to the wheel. Dean reaches for the radio.

Do you mind if I turn this back on?

I was kind of enjoying the silence.

Let's just see if there's something on...

He scans through the low stations.

Anything? Fuck it.

He turns it off.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 22.

That's better. You're right. It never

gets to be just quiet. You know?

Cindy nods. Dean rolls down his window, spits his gum as far

as he can. He rolls it back up.

What are you thinking about?

Dean looks at Cindy, waiting for her to respond.

Did you get everything?

Think so.

Where d'you get these?

Dean reaches for the glasses on top of Cindy's head. She

feels the dangling tag - "woops." She tears off the tag and

tosses the glasses on the dashboard.

Try em' on.

Cindy shakes her head "no." Dean puts them on his face. He

poses for Cindy. She grabs the glasses and puts them on. She

looks at Dean. He holds in a chuckle.

You look like your mom.

Cindy takes them off. Back on the dash.

You get any snacks?

There should be some fig newtons back

there.

Dean unbuckles his seatbelt, crawls to the back of the van

digs through the bags. Cindy can't see out of the rear-view.

Which bag?

You have to look.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 23.

Cindy enjoys a moment alone, straightens her back, crosses

the dotted yellow lines and passes a car, then relaxes. Dean

crawls back up to the front seat. They both eat a cookie.

Mmm. These are good.

He offers her another one. She shakes her head.

I have to pee.

The car stops on the shoulder of the two lane highway. Cindy

gets out of the car.

You can't wait? We're almost there.

EXT. ROADSIDE - DUSK - PRESENT DAY

I gotta go.

Cindy jogs across the road. Dean sees traffic coming.

Goddamnit Cindy!! Pay attention!!!

On the side of the road, she stares into the woods. Cars pass

behind her, headlights flood the night. She descends into the

thicket until the sound of the highway is faint. Wind through

the leaves. She drops her pants and pees. Something rustles

and she looks into the woods.

...Hello?

She stands up and zips up her pants. Eyes search the shadows.

...Cindy is ALONE. A leaf falls to earth. She stares at it and

her mind drifts back to...

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET/COLLEGE - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

A YOUNGER CINDY - 22, smart - wheels herself down suburban

sidewalks. Faces of passing people look at her with pity -

what a shame that such a pretty girl be in a wheelchair.

Cindy wheels herself across the campus quad. Students hurry

by clutching schoolbooks.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 24.

INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Wrestling practice. Bobby - 22, svelte - gets into the

defensive position. TROY LEANER, his buddy, gets on top of

him in the offensive position. Bobby looks up, sees Cindy by

the door attempting to pop wheelies in her wheelchair.

Whistle blows! Bobby escapes the position and wraps Troy up

in a double grapevine. Quickly pins him, stands up, takes off

his ear guards, bumps fists. He walks over to Cindy.

What are you doing?

Research.

You're supposed to be a quadriplegic?

Quads can't use their arms. I'm a

paraplegic.

Don't I give you enough attention?

He presses himself into her and mauls her with a wet kiss.

Wonder what people would think if they

saw me making out with a paraplegic?

He lifts her expensive necklace out from under her dress -

looks at it admiringly. Then, Cindy.

BOBBY (close (cont'd)

Can you come over?

I can't. I have to go get gramma.

Cindy rolls the wheelchair back.

Gimme a sec.

Bobby tries to hide the erection trapped in his wrestling

singlet.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 25.

INT. HELLER HOME - FOYER - EVENING - 6 YEARS EARLIER

The front door opens and Cindy pushes GRAMMA FRANCIS - 80's,

Alzheimer's - into the middle class home. NAPOLEON - an ill-

trained dog - greets them with jumps and licks

Get down Napoleon! Get down!

GLENDA HELLER - 50's, desperate - peeks her head out of the

kitchen. She holds a coffee mug filled with gin on the rocks.

Ope - I thought you were your Dad.

Just us.

Cindy kisses her mom on the cheek, can smell the alcohol.

How was the beauty shop?

INT. HELLER HOME - FOYER - LATER - 6 YEARS EARLIER

The front door opens and COLONEL JERRY - 65, wound tighter

than a navy knot - enters. Glenda, rushes to greet him.

Get that fucking dog out of the kitchen!

INT. HELLER HOME - DINING ROOM - EVENING - 6 YEARS EARLIER

GLENDA, JERRY AND GRAMMA

Come lord Jesus, be our guest, and let

Thy gifts to us be blessed. Amen.

Glenda, Jerry, Gramma Francis and Cindy sit around a dining

room table. Glenda slices a knife through a greenish

meatloaf. She serves a watery slice to Gramma.

Thank you.

Glenda averts her eyes. She cuts another slice. Cindy offers

Glenda her plate. The meat breaks apart and half of it lands

on the table cloth. A brownish-green oil.

It's OK mom.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 26.

Cindy picks up the fallen particles with her fork. Jerry's

eyes burn into Glenda. She won't look at him.

Can I have your plate Dad?

He pushes it across the table an inch. Glenda lowers a slice

onto Jerry's plate with a SPLAT. Jerry looks at his dinner.

Glenda serves herself. Cindy cuts Gramma's meat with her fork

and looks over at her dad. His face is turning beat-red...

Suddenly, Jerry pounds his fist into the mound of meatloaf,

obliterating it. Particles of ground meat fly everywhere.

Glenda won't look up, her shoulders tremble. Jerry raises his

steaming fist. Bits of ground beef stick to his knuckles.

What'd you do to meatloaf? Huh?!

They had it ready-made in the deli. I...

thought it looked good.

Are you kidding me? How long does it take

to make a meatloaf? Five minutes? You

mean to tell me that you didn't have five

minutes to make a meatloaf? I been up

since six this morning busting my fucking

ass and you don't have five minutes to

make a meatloaf?

I thought it would be nice.

Nice?

...for a change...

Well, what gave you the idea that any of

us needed a change? Did you ask for a

change? Cindy? She doesn't ask for

anything... She doesn't talk. You didn't

ask for a change, did you mom?...She

can't hear! And I don't remember asking

for a change. So, it was you, wasn't it?

You wanted a change. I work all day so

you can sit on your fat ass, thinkin'

about yourself. How you'd like a change.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 27.

Sorry.

Sorry? What good is sorry now?

Do you want me to make you some eggs?

I want you to enjoy your fucking dinner.

He storms out of the dining room. Glenda, Cindy and Gramma

sit in silence. Cindy takes a bite.

It's not bad.

Oh bullshit.

Glenda retreats into the kitchen. Gramma and Cindy eat.

PROFESSOR (O.S.)

...When I was a young physician, I used

to leave the hospital everyday in tears.

INT. HELLER HOME - BATHROOM - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Gramma sits in a chair in the bathtub. Cindy squeezes a sudsy

washcloth over her body. Uses a plastic cup to rinse.

PROFESSOR (O.S.)

Just broken down from seeing the

suffering of my patients.

Don't get my hair.

INT. HELLER HOME - MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Fully clothed, Glenda is passed out on the bed. Framed family

portraits sit on the mantle.

PROFESSOR (O.S.)

...As a result, I began to suffer. Not just

in my work but emotionally and

physically...spiritually...

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 28.

INT. HELLER HOME - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Shirt off, hand stuffed into his underwear - Jerry holds a

remote and flicks through channels. Nothing holds.

PROFESSOR (O.S.)

...There's a choice we all have to make

in the medical profession - whether to be

sympathetic or empathetic with our

patients...

INT. HELLER HOME - CINDY'S ROOM - DAWN - 6 YEARS EARLIER

SOUND of TYPING. An open medical schoolbook on the PSYCHOLOGY

OF PATIENTS sits on a well-organized desk. Cindy stares at

the screen, hits "enter."

PROFESSOR (O.S.)

...Imagine your patients as being in a

hole. To be sympathetic means you throw

them a rope to help pull them out...

Pages print on an old printer. Outside the window, the sun

has begun to rise.

PROFESSOR (O.S.) (cont'd)

...To be empathetic means you jump in the

hole with them...

EXT. CITY BUS - MORNING - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy sits near the back of the bus. She hugs her backpack.

PROFESSOR (O.S.)

...Now you're both stuck.

INT. AUDITORIUM CLASSROOM - AFTERNOON - 6 YEARS EARLIER

The PROFESSOR stands in front of the class. There are grids

and diagrams illustrating DOCTOR-patient relationships. It is

a big class - students, sitting in steep rows.

I want you to think about that when

we go into the next section. Please

pass in your reports.

Cindy passes her paper down. Bobby, the TA, collects the

reports. Cindy can feel him staring at her as she packs her

backpack.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 29.

She tries not to give him the satisfaction, but she can't

help it - his cockiness is magnetic. She looks, notices

something new - his belt buckle has his name on it.

INT. BOBBY'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON - 6 YEARS EARLIER

A gold necklace dangles from Cindy's neck. Her arms secure

her weight on the bed. Bobby stands behind her. His hands

caress her back as he looks down at himself inside of her. He

closes his eyes tight, trying to control himself. But the

ecstasy is too much - he comes inside of her, moaning, and

lets his body weight smother her onto the bed.

Shit.

She stops moving, feels him shrinking inside of her.

Shit!

I couldn't help it.

She gets out from underneath him.

I couldn't help it... You felt too good.

Cindy is white, tries to contain her terror. She disappears

into the BATHROOM. Bobby sits up.

BOBBY (calls out) (cont'd)

Don't trip. It'll be OK...OK?

Bobby lies back, frustrated, and buttons his pants.

IN THE BATHROOM - BOBBY'S

Cindy sits on the toilet, pees; hoping gravity will pull

Bobby out of her. She runs her hand under the faucet and

scrubs her crotch, hoping that this will wash him out of her.

Cindy comes out, shirt stretched over her waist. Bobby sits

up, asks her what's wrong? She can't look.

It's your fault. You felt too good.

She sees her underwear lying by the base of the bed. She goes

to grab them, but Bobby snatches them away.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 30.

Give em!

Cindy presses her lips together. She leaps at Bobby and

squeezes his crotch and gets her underwear back. Bobby's face

turns vicious. He snatches them back aggressively.

Say you're sorry!

Cindy picks her pants up off the floor - pulls them on.

Take a deep whiff, you fucking douchebag!

She tears off his necklace, throws it at him, slams the door.

I was just joking! God!

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET. DAY. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

Cindy walks briskly, hoodie pulled low, pushing her Gramma in

a wheelchair. Gramma protects her hair from the breeze.

EXT/INT. RETIREMENT HOME - LATE AFTERNOON. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

Cindy pushes her Gramma in. Piles of moving boxes line the

hallway.

INT. RETIREMENT HOME. LATE AFTERNOON. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

ELLIPSE - Cindy sits down for dinner with Gramma and the

other elderly residents. Cindy notices a group of men moving

boxes into the home.

INT. GRAMMA'S BEDROOM. LATE AFTERNOON. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

- Cindy helps gramma with bedtime rituals.

- Cindy reads to Gramma... but she keeps getting distracted

by the commotion across the hall - movers carry boxes and

furniture down the hallway. One in particular, tall,

handsome, catches her eye. It is Dean. She cranes her head to

see - him decorating the inside of the old man's room.

What is it?

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 30A.

It looks like you have a new neighbor.

Cindy returns to the book, but there is something about the

mover that has captured her attention. She can't stop

watching him every time he passes her door.

Glenda... I mean Cindy... can I have a

cigarette?

No, Gramma, you're in bed now. It's

bedtime. Do you want me to keep reading?

Gramma nods. Cindy turns the page, looks up, sees Dean lift

the old man over the threshold and into the room.

Cindy. Have you got a cigarette!

Okay, shhh. But you gotta be quiet.

Cindy gets up and opens the window. She turns on the fan,

digs in Gramma's purse, gets a cigarette and a lighter. Cindy

walks to her gramma's door, sees Curtis walking away from the

old man's room.

CURTIS (O.S.)

Boss says we gotta go. We gotta go.

She starts closing the door, then sees Dean backing out of

the old man's room. He puts a roll of money in his pocket,

turns to leave and sees Cindy watching him.

DEAN (LOOKS DOWN AT HIS MONEY)

I didn't just steal that.

Cindy doesn't know what this guy is talking about.

DEAN (CONT'D) (cont'd)

You think I just stole that money?

No.

You do. No, you do. I know that you do.

And the reason that I know that you do is

- I have stolen money before... a lot of

it. And I know what it feels like to have

someone look at you like that...

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 30B.

Like what?

The way your lookin'. Just so you know, I

have a job where I make money. Money that

I can take girls out on dates with.

Are you trying to pick up on me?

Maybe...

SANED (O.S.)

Pack it up Periera. Bus is leaving.

Dean looks toward the door, then back at Cindy. He sees that

he has kind of went to far with his rant.

Can I give you my number or something.

He feels inside his shirt pocket, pulls out a business card.

Finds a pen. Dean writes his name across the card. Hands it

to Cindy.

DEAN (CONT'D) (cont'd)

I'm Dean. Just call and you can ask for

me. I'll get it.

Cindy looks down at the card, at his name. Then back up to

him. Dean run out, chasing after his ride. He looking behind

before he leaves. Cindy watches him go out the door.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 31.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - MOON ROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Door opens revealing Dean and Cindy holding groceries and

suitcases. Dean flicks on the light, illuminating the Moon

Room - a hotel room decorated like the lunar surface.

Wow. Where are we?

He sets down the suitcases, transfixed by the room, a kid in

a candy shop. Cindy moves to the small kitchen that looks

like a control room. She makes herself a drink.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - BATHROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Dean walks into the bright BATHROOM, turns on the shower, a

sparse tinkle of water.

DEAN (yells out)

I could piss harder than this!

The dual mirrors multiply his reflection. He looks at himself

and removes his coffee-stained shirt. A neglected body. But

something else distresses Dean. A fallen hair on the T-shirt

he holds. He runs his hands through his hair, looks in horror

at twelve fallen hairs in his palm. He washes them down the

drain and leans to the mirror, inspecting his hairline.

Cynthia!

INT. ROMANTASUITES - MOON ROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Cindy dials the telephone, drink in hand. Shirtless, Dean

walks out of the BATHROOM with his empty palms open.

Now watch.

He runs his hands through his hair then shows her his palms -

three fallen hairs. His magic trick.

See. I tol' ya. It's falling out!

Cindy ignores Dean who is mesmerized.

Oooooooooh shiiiiiiit!

Cindy waves him away. Jerry picks up the line.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 32.

CINDY (into phone)

Hi Dad. We're here... It's kind of crazy.

I don't know, should I feel bad?

Dean trots back into the BATHROOM. He is screaming like a

hyena.

...it's just Dean... he's losing his

hair. What are you guys doing?

INT. ROMANTASUITES - BEDROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Dean tosses his suitcase onto the circular spaceship bed,

watches the graceful way it rebounds. He shoves the suitcase

aside, falls backwards onto the bed. He sighs with pleasure.

There is a box with a button next to the bed. He presses it.

The bed rotates. He looks up at his spinning reflection in

the mirror above the bed.

CINDY (O.S.)

Lemme talk to the little one.

Is that Francis? Hey!? Don't hang up

until I talk to her!

INT. ROMANTASUITES - MOON ROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Did Pa make you something to eat yet?

...Frankie? ...What'd you and Pa eat?

...Was it cooked all the way through? No

pink in there? ...

Dean walks up from behind, putting on a clean, white T-shirt.

He snaps his fingers at Cindy. Cindy swipes his hand away

with more force than necessary.

Okay sweetheart, your daddy wants to talk

to you. I love you... love you... Don't

forget to brush your teeth tonight okay.

Okay? Here's your dad.

Cindy sets down the receiver and walks away. Dean snacks on

tortilla chips and picks up the phone.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 33.

DEAN (disguised voice)

Who's this? ...How do you know I'm your

father?

A faint scream of joy is heard through the phone.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - BATHROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Steam accumulates on mirrors. Cindy takes her clothes off,

tests the temperature of the water and steps in the shower.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - MOON ROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Dean paces, improvising a bedtime story. It comes from the

well of creativity in him. Frankie loves to hear him talk.

And he loves to make her happy. He finishes. She is happy.

Are you ready to go to sleep now? I'll

call you first thing in the morning, OK?

He walks into the living room, stretching the phone cord,

grabs the remote and turns on the television - animal doc.

Dean turns the channel. Tennis.

How much?

CLICK. The news.

...Well, I love you more. Sleep tight.

Dean hangs up and returns to the living room. He changes the

station. A porno. He turns the volume down and watches. He

hears water running in the BATHROOM. CLICK. A show on space.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - BATHROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Dean cracks open the door to the steam-filled room. Cindy

lathers her hair with her eyes closed.

What are you doing?

What does it look like I'm doing?

Do you like the place?

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 34.

It's fine.

I'm gonna go order dinner now.

Fine!

Any special requests?

Close the door!

Dean closes the door, remains in the BATHROOM, watches his

naked wife, removes his clothes. Cindy does a double take.

What are you doing?

Dean pulls back the shower curtain and steps in.

What does it look like I'm doing?

Dean.

The small shower presses them close. Dean's smile infects

her. He leans over, they kiss. Brushing lips at first. Dean

presses closer. Cindy pulls back and pivots him around until

the stream of water catches his body. He leans his head back,

the water pours over his hair and face. He places his hands

on Cindy's hips and pulls her close to him. Cindy hands him a

bar of soap. He builds a gentle lather. Cindy inches back,

turns around. Dean lathers her back, slow and languid.

I remember the first time I saw your

back.

What do you remember?

Everything.

He lowers his hands from her back to her behind. Cindy turns.

I wasn't done.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 35.

He washes her shoulders and neck. His hands sculpt her body

and move to her breasts. No longer washing her, but molding

her. Cindy looks up. His hands move to her belly. He kneels

down. Cindy reaches down and lifts him up by the arms. But

Dean remains where he is. He begins, on his knees, to wash

the entire surface of her left thigh, knee, calf, foot. Then

he moves to her right foot and up her calf, knee and thigh.

Cindy releases her breath. Then, Dean's hands move up between

her legs.

Okay.

Cindy grabs under his armpits. He refuses, but she wins. She

pivots them around again. Standing in the stream of water,

Cindy washes the soap off her body, eyes closed, head back.

Dean reaches for her and follows with his fingertips the flow

of water down the front of her body.

Give me the soap.

She forms a quick lather in her hands. She rubs it into his

chest, her strong hands making circles of suds. Dean is a

tranquil participant. She lifts up his left arm, scrubs his

armpit, then his right. Her hands build a lather and wash his

penis. Dean catches his breath.

Turn around.

Dean obeys. She continues wash his back, buttocks and legs

and stops. Dean turns around to Cindy who holds a squirt of

shampoo in her hands. She reaches up and scours his head.

Getting thinner, isn't it?

Your hair is not falling out.

Cindy pivots him around into the water and rinses him.

You're crazy you know...

I know. I love you.

She pecks him on the lips.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 36.

Okay, get out. I have to finish washing

myself.

I'll do it.

No. Go order dinner. I'm hungry.

Wait, I didn't wash your hair...

INT. ROMANTASUITES HALLWAY - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Ice dumps into an ice bucket. Music and laughter emanate from

other rooms. Dean wears a hotel robe and carries a full

bucket of ice. He swipes his key. A TEENAGE boy in a tuxedo

shirt and swim trunks chases a girl in a bikini down the

hallway behind him.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - MOON ROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

We have neighbors.

Cindy stands in a towel at the bar, waiting for the ice.

Grump. Grump.

She makes 2 drinks - vodka on the rocks. She hands Dean his

drink.

Why don't you put some music on Dean?

She pecks him on the cheek, walks to the bedroom to change.

Thanks.

He takes a big drink, sifts through cassettes in his bag. In

the bedroom, Cindy buttons up one of Dean's big flannel

shirts.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 37.

She hears the music begin from the other room, knows the song

- (Penny & the Quarters or Dynamite Four) It sounds really

good right now. Drink in hand, she begins to sway to the

rhythm. Dean peeks his head around the corner with a shit-

eating grin. He starts to awkwardly dance to the music and

make his way down the hallway to the bedroom.

It's been years since they danced in front of each other, and

it makes them a little embarrassed to be doing it now. The

closer they get to each other, the less they can be seen, the

less they are exposed. Soon, they are slow dancing, still

holding drinks. They don't feel as vulnerable now. The cotton

on Dean's robe feels good to Cindy's fingertips, she traces

invisible pictures on his back. Dean burrows his nose into

Cindy's neck, inhales deeply.

There is a knock at the door. They both wish it would go

away. It doesn't.

DEAN (YELLS) (cont'd)

Coming!

Something about this makes Cindy laugh, Dean too. He backs

away from her, slowly, as if pulled by some unseen force. The

song continues as Dean opens the door and pays the ROOM

SERVICE MAN. Cindy sets the table.

INT/EXT. TRUCK - CITY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

A torn and tattered teddy bear, tied to the grill of the

truck, cuts through the early spring morning.

CURTIS (V.O.)

Yeah. I can tell what's happening

already. You see this person... you think

it's love at first sight, and the course

of your life will be forever changed.

EXT. HOME #2. STREET - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean straps a weight-lifting belt around his waist. He lifts

a TV on his back.

DEAN (V.O.)

Maybe...

INT. HELLER HOME - BATHROOM - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy gives Gramma a bath, runs her hair under the faucet.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 38.

CURTIS (V.O.)

It's like when two streams are flowin'

down opposite sides of the mountain,

mindin' their business.

INT. HELLER HOME - GUEST BEDROOM - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER

A hand tucks sheets under Gramma's chin, kisses her forehead.

CURTIS (V.O.)

They're doin' fine until they hit the

bottom and run into one another...

EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS - GYMNASIUM - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Bobby trains, 200 sit ups, his abdomen taught.

CURTIS (V.O.)

At that point they got no choice but to

become one river.

EXT. STREET - LATE AFTERNOON - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean counts his pay, opens his wallet - packs it with bills.

CURTIS (V.O.)

Sure, it's a great feeling at first, all

this new water flowing together. But then

you travel down a little ways and the

land levels out. The current starts

moving a little slower.

INT. AUDITORIUM CLASSROOM - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Papers are passed back. Cindy's reads "98% Great Insight!"

She doesn't look happy though. She looks a little green.

CURTIS (V.O. CONT'D)

People start drinking the water. Pissin'

in it. Putting up dams to stop the flow.

In the corner of the room, Bobby stares at Cindy from behind.

EXT. HELLER HOME - LATE AFTERNOON - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy pushes Gramma Francis up the driveway. Bobby stands on

the porch holding a bunch of red roses. Cindy ignores it.

CURTIS (V.O. CONT)

In other words, life interferes, you

know.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 38A.

Cindy struggles to get Gramma up the ramp of the porch.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 39.

Hasn't anyone ever been nice to you?

She takes the flowers, pushes Gramma into the house. The

screen door closes between them.

Don't make me give up on you...

CURTIS(V.O.)

And there's not too many of these rivers

that'll make it all the way to the ocean

without splitting off eventually.

INT/EXT. TRUCK - AFTERNOON - 6 YEARS EARLIER

CURTIS (V.O.)

It's just nature, that's all.

Curtis - with harmonica - and Dean - with ukulele - eat

hamburgers on their lunchbreak.

And instead of thinking about it you

gotta just do something about it. Action,

not thought.

INT. STORAGE FACILITY - MORNING. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

Anyone call for me?

Dean peeks into Jo's office. She shakes her head "no."

INT. DEAN'S FRIEND'S APARTMENT. NIGHT. 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean leans near the window, smoking, looking out at the moon.

DEAN (V.O.)

I just keep replaying it in my head.

Thinking about other things I coulda

done. Other things I coulda said.

INT. HELLER HOME - CINDY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER 80

Cindy pours over textbooks but she is distracted. She opens

her window and breathes in the night air.

DEAN (V.O.)

You wait your whole life for something to

happen...

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 39A.

INT. COLLEGE - BATHROOM - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy pukes in the toilet.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 40.

DEAN (V.O.)

...And you have all these ideas in your

head about how you'll act and what you'll

say and what you'll do, who you'll be...

She washes the taste out of her mouth and looks at herself in

the mirror. She flicks water at her reflection.

INT. MOVING TRUCK - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean sweeps the bed of the truck. The broom catches something

in the corner. Dean reaches - a locket.

DEAN (V.O.) cont'd

...And then the opportunity comes, it

presents itself to you, living and

breathing in the flesh, and you puss out.

INT. MOVING TRUCK - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean holds up the locket and stares at it, twirling. He opens

the latch - sees a picture of the old man and his wife - 60

years ago. Dean puts it in his pocket, finishes sweeping up.

INT/EXT. TRAIN/TRAIN STATION. AFTERNOON. 6 YEARS EARLIER

Still wearing his work clothes, Dean rides the train out of

the city, pulls out the locket. Reads the inscription on the

back - "you are my sunshine."

Dean gets off the train. Asks some people for directions.

INT. BUS - DAY. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

A feeling of anticipation. Dean pulls the lever - his stop.

INT. RETIREMENT HOME. LATE AFTERNOON. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

Dean walks to the old man's room. The door is open, lights

are off, room is empty. All the furniture, pictures, gone -

just an empty bed. Dean is at a loss for what to do. He hears

the TV coming from across the hall. He knocks, waits, then

opens Cindy's Gramma's door. She is lying in bed. Tries to

recognize Dean. He pulls up a chair next to her.

Hi. I was looking for your neighbor...

the man who moved in last month. Across

the hall. Do you know what happened to

him?

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 41.

He went out for groceries.

What about the girl that was with you?

Who?

The conversation moves in circles. Not much information is

gained. Dean ends up just holding her hand.

INT/EXT. BUS - LATE AFTERNOON

The bus drives away. Inside, Dean stands. He is a little

down. He feels around in his pocket. Finds the locket. He

puts it on. The bus comes to a stop. A few passengers get on.

One of them is Cindy. Dean watches her pay her fare and move

to the back of the bus without noticing him.

She finds a seat, pulls her hoodie low, anonymous. She

underlines passages from a textbook using a highlighter. Dean

is frozen. He gathers the courage to walk toward her. The

moving bus throws his balance. He stands over her for a

moment. Cindy senses somebody in her space. She looks up.

Recognizes him, but can't place it.

Hi.

Hi.

I just had a long talk with your

gramma... is that, is that your gramma?

Cindy remembers him now - he's just dressed nicer - he

doesn't look like a mover

I was looking for that old guy who moved

across the hall, you know? Do you know

what happened to him?

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 42.

I think he passed away.

Dean feels for the locket around his neck. He shakes his

head.

That's exactly what happened to my dog.

My parents moved out of our house and

three days later she was a goner.

He pulls the locket out from behind his shirt. He unclasps

it. Shows her the pictures.

He was so handsome, wasn't he? I was

trying to give it back to him.

Cindy looks at it.

She was pretty too..

Dean thinks about the old man. The bus drives.

She must have been crazy.

Why do you say that?

Cause there's one thing I know... the

prettier a girl is the more nuts she is.

I mean, look at you... you must be

insane.

Excuse me?

It's okay, I mean, I get it. It's not

your fault.

Cindy pulls the chain to stop the bus.

Where you going?

Home.

The bus slows. She gets up to leave. Doors open.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 42A.

Can I walk with you?

Cindy thinks about it.

Just for a little bit... And when you

don't want to walk with me no more, then

just speed up.

Doors to the bus open. Cindy thinks about it.

EXT. TOWN STREETS - DUSK TO DAWN

Dean and Cindy wander side by side down the sidewalks and

streets of the town. They walk and talk about - small towns

and big cities, school and work, dreams and nightmares, being

old and being young, etc.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 43.

Where's you house?

We passed it.

Where?

Back there...

Dean looks back. He sees a bunch of houses that all look the

same. They keep walking.

ELLIPSE: Cindy smokes one of Dean's cigarettes, calls her dad

on a pay phone and tells him she won't be home for dinner

because she is studying.

ELLIPSE. DEAN tells Cindy about his childhood, the

sexualizing of his mother, and his fascination with women's

purses. It makes Cindy a little uncomfortable.

Do you think it would be okay if I looked

in your purse?

No.

Why?

Cindy thinks about it for a moment. Against her better

judgement, she hands over her bag. It weighs a lot.

Jeez... What you got in here?

Books. Mostly.

Lot of books. You doing good?

We'll see.

What are you gonna be when you grow up?

I'm trying to get into med school.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 44.

You going to be a doctor?

Someday.

Oh yeah? What should I do about this?

He pretends to bump into a pole. Cindy laughs.

Don't do it.

DEAN (rubbing his head)

You're gonna be a good doctor. I can

tell.

He digs through text books, pens, a wallet, asthma inhaler.

Then he comes to a bottle of lotion. Opens the cap, sniffs.

Mmm. This is what you smell like?

Cindy nods, "I guess so."

I wanna smell like you. Can I?

You wanna put on my lotion?

Dean nods, applies a little lotion to his fingertips, rubs it

in circles on his hands, applies it to his forearms, neck,

face. He enjoys the feeling of it, offers her some. She say's

no. He digs through her purse and finds lip balm, smells it.

This is what your lips smell like? They

must smell good.

He puts some on his lips.

Mmm. Your lips must taste good.

Are you fucking with me?

No.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 45.

DEAN FINDS A LITTLE BAG INSIDE THE PURSE. SHE SNATCHES IT.

What's in there?

She takes her purse back.

Okay enough...

Why?

Because.

Throughout the rest of the night Dean tries to continually

steal Cindy's purse from her. It is a game. Innocent.

ELLIPSE. DEAN TRIES TO GIVE CINDY THE LOCKET. SHE REFUSES.

Aren't you gonna miss your train?

Probably. I think I... I think I already

did. It's okay. There's an early one.

You are just gonna stay up all night?

Until you get tired...

ELLIPSE: MORE WALK AND TALK.

Where'd you grow up?

Here.

Here?

Cindy gives him a grimace.

Same streets. Same people. Everything

here is the same. You walk down the

street, you can't get lost... you know.

.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 46.

Where do you want to go? I mean, if you

could go anywhere..

They walk to an old playground. Cindy gets an idea.

There!

Cindy runs to an old, creaky merry-go round, jumps on.

I used to love these things.

Oh God... I hate these things.

Push me.

Dean is tentative, but goes along with her. He starts slow,

but she eggs him to go faster. He runs in circles picking up

speed until he is in a breathless, circular sprint. He can't

keep up with the centrifugal force.

Get on!

Dean does as he's told. They both hold on for dear life. The

world spins in a frenzy. The dread on Dean's face builds to

insane laughter. It is super fun. Cindy screams. Her hair

snaps in her face. Then, a look of sickness steals her smile

away. She wants it to stop, which, slowly, it does. She gets

off first, tries to walk, but is too dizzy. She just keeps

falling to the ground. Dean crawls off the merry-go round on

all fours, laughing.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 47.

What happened, tough guy?

Make it stop.

You gotta puke... it's the only way.

She refuses.

It's the only way. It will make you feel

better. Don't be embarrassed. I'll do it.

He sticks his finger down his throat and forces himself to

vomit. The sound of it is too much for her. She gags. Side by

side, they puke into the gravel. They finish their business

and end up on their backs and out of breath, side by side,

looking up at the stars. They are both covered in sweat. We

see their breath.

I'm still spinning.

Me too.

Maybe it's just the Earth that's

spinning.

Yeah. We're flying.

They laugh. Birds begin to awaken and fly.

You should come visit me in the city

sometime.

The morning air chills their bodies. Dean takes off his

jacket and uses it as a blanket. They get close together to

get warm and watch the stars spin above them.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - MOON ROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

The dining room table is set for two. A single champagne

glass is raised.

To honesty...

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 48.

They sit across from each other. Cindy drinks premature.

Hey! Wait up.

We're toasting tonight?

Dean makes his toast. CLINK. Dean quaffs his glass.

Sometimes you don't make any sense. You

might as well be speaking Chinese.

Dean imitates a Chinese man - it goes on too long.

Happy belated anniversary.

Cindy starts to eat a spread of Indian food and booze.

How is it?

Good. How did Frankie sound?

Great. She's the best.

She didn't sound sad?

Naw. She's the champ. She's the best

parts of you and the best parts of me put

together. Everyday she gets more and more

amazing.

Dean chews a bite of meat and washes it down with a shot of

vodka. He refills both their glasses.

Daddy's little girl.

She's not mine. I'm hers.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 49.

Cindy slows down.

I'm her father. She isn't there for me...

I'm there for her. That's the way I look

at it.

That's beautiful.

It's the choice I made when she was born.

Silence. They chew. Cindy stares through Dean.

Why don't you do something...

Like what?

I don't know... isn't there anything you

want to do?

Dean thinks about it. Shakes his head.

What am I supposed to want to do?

I don't know... You have so many things

you could do. You're good at everything.

You could do anything you wanted.

I just wanna be with you.

Silence. Cindy tries not to look disappointed.

You look like an animal right now. Your

eyes look like an animal. Like a bear's

eyes.

Like right before the bear eats the man?

Yeah... You do. It's true. That's what

you look like.

Dean is amused but fearful. Cindy's confidence surges.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 50.

Whatchu thinking about?

How different we are. You and me.

Different?

It's a good thing.

You think that's good that we're

different?

Absolutely. We don't have to get in each

other's way.

And that's the way you like it, don't

you? You don't like me to bother you.

I didn't say that. What I meant is that

it's important for us to have our space.

That's all. We're grown people.

Well there's not much space here. So I

guess you won't be able to get away from

me will ya?

You know, we rarely sit down and have a

conversation. An adult conversation.

Because every time we do, you turn

something that I say around and make it

mean something that I didn't mean to say.

You just blab. Blab.

If you're not interested in hearing what

I think I just won't say anything.

Good luck. I just want you to think about

what you say sometimes instead of saying

what you think all the time.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 51.

OK. I'm going to say something. And what

I'm about to say I've thought long and

hard about. I'm the luckiest person alive

because I'm living my dream - you, her,

this, us, all of it.

Cindy lifts up her empty wine glass to the light.

I think my glass has a hole in it.

Cindy cuts around her food and pushes a piece aside.

What's wrong with that?

It's fat.

That's the flavor. Eat it.

I don't want to. You eat it.

Dean stabs a piece of fat and pops it into his mouth.

That's going straight to your tits.

My tits? I got tits?

Dean opens his shirt and peers down at his chest.

I could still kick yer ass.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 52.

Shiiit. I bet you a nickel you can't even

beat me at arm wrestling.

A dime and you're on.

Cindy gulps more champagne. They scoot dishes out of the way

and clasp hands in the middle of the table.

Ready?

I'm always ready, baby.

On the count of three... One... Two...

Cindy flexes and starts.

THREE!

Dean, acting as if he isn't trying at all, holds Cindy's hand

at a stand still.

Come on. Go! Start.

Cindy ignores his taunts and pushes as hard as she can.

Slowly, she begins to push Dean's hand down. Dean groans,

letting her win a little. Cindy presses down with all her

weight. His hand is centimeters from hitting the table. Then,

he turns the tide. Cindy battles back with all the strength

she can muster. Dean laughs, realizing her passion for

victory. Dean pounds her hand into the table. He stands

kisses his flexed bicep. Cindy lifts her hand. A fork is

stuck in the back of it. She looks at it with curiosity.

Oh fuck.

I'm alright.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 53.

Hold still.

He plucks the fork from her hand, leaving four vampire bites.

Ow ow ow.

Dean leads her to the kitchen, holds her hand under the

faucet.

You think we should rush you to the

hospital before you bleed to death?

Cindy shoots him a look. Dean wraps her hand with a dishrag.

Does it hurt?

It stings a little.

Dean tries to pick up Cindy. She struggles against it.

Finally he cradles her like a squirming baby.

No, no... Put me down. It's okay...

Dean huffs a little. Cindy adjusts her weight, self-

conscious. He hefts her down the hallway to the bedroom.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - MOON ROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY

Dean awkwardly sets Cindy down on the circular spaceship bed.

Wait wait wait.

He flicks the switch and the bed starts spinning. He runs out

of the room. Cindy watches the room around her spin. Dean

returns with the vodka bottle and two shot glasses. He kneels

above her and pours them two shots.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 54.

To numb the pain. Doctors orders. I'm an

anesthesiologist.

I'm spinning.

She sits up. They toast. Dean gulps his. Cindy takes a sip.

Drink up. We haven't gotten loaded

together in years.

He tops off her glass, refills his own, and quaffs it.

I gotta take a piss. Don't fall asleep.

He kisses her on the forehead, stumbles. Cindy hears Dean

urinating. She is sickened by it. She tries to set her full

glass on the floor that spins beneath her. The toilet

flushes. The drink tips over. A loud crash comes from the

BATHROOM. Cindy sits up.

What are you doing in there? ...Dean?!

An agonizing moan comes from down the hall. Cindy staggers

off the spinning bed and stumbles to the bathroom door.

Are you all right? Dean...

She pushes the door but it is blocked. Dean moans louder.

Cindy pushes again and inches it open. She sticks her head

in, sees him laying on his back looking up at the ceiling.

I fell over.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 55.

Ew. Come on, get up.

Nope, I want you to come here first. I

want you to laugh.

Cindy opens the door and Dean scoots, making room for her. He

lets out an "ow" before extending his hand.

Come close. I want to hear you... I want

to tell you... Shh, come here...

Cindy reluctantly joins him on the bathroom floor. Their

faces are close, eyes locked.

You want to hear a joke? OK. What's

better than winning a gold medal at the

Special Olympics?

What?

Not being retarded.

Cindy looks down.

Hey...that's not funny? How come you

don't think I'm funny any more? I tell

you something funny. You laugh. I see you

laugh. But you don't really laugh so

much. You don't laugh anymore Cindy.

Dean... Come on, it's time for bed.

No I want to make you laugh.

Tears well up in her eyes. Dean rolls on top of her. He cups

her face in his hands and stares long into her watery eyes.

Hello...

You're drunk.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 56.

No, I'm just still in love with you.

After a moment, their lips meet in an awkward rejuvenation.

She moves her head away and pats Dean on the shoulder in a

gesture of friendship. Dean kisses her neck.

Do you... you want to have another baby?

... I want another child.

Cindy bites her lip. He slides his hand between her legs.

No... Dean... Wait a second.

She removes his hand and places it on her hip. Dean continues

to kiss her neck. He slides his hand up to her breasts. Cindy

turns her head in the other direction. She pushes his hand

away. He brings it back aggressive. Again. Cindy squirms

underneath him. He grabs her wrists and holds her arms over

her head. His tongue licks Cindy from her breasts to her

face. She worms her arms away and grabs onto his hair. She

arches her back, looks at him through slit eyes. His pelvis

pulses and he moans. He looks up at her over his brow into

her desperate eyes. He springs up. Sweat beads on his

forehead.

What!? I can't have sex with my wife!?

Cindy covers her face with her hand.

Do I repulse you that much? I'm good to

you. I'm good to Frankie. I deserve a

little affection. Do you want me to stop

loving you? Do you want me to fuck other

women? Do you want me to beat you?

Stop... stop... stop...

Is that what you think you deserve? Would

that make it easier on you so you can

treat me like this?

Cindy raises her hips and slips off her panties. She lifts

the shirt up over her head, positions her feet on the door

jam. Her arm falls over her eyes. Breathless, Dean awkwardly

moves one hand up and down her bodice.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 57.

He unbuckles his belt, pushes his pants and underwear down to

his knees, holds himself in his hand. He lowers onto her.

Cindy adjusts her legs higher. He rotates his hips, looks

away in concentration. Cindy's arms move around him, grabbing

the small of his arching back. His pelvis humps in a feeble

performance. A small moan. Cindy's eyes press closed harder.

The erratic motion slows... stops. Dean's raspy breathing.

His weight covers Cindy. She opens her eyes to the ceiling.

I'm sorry...I'm sorry...I'm sorry...

She looks at him. His head faces away. She rolls out from

underneath and stands. She wraps her dress around her and

slips into the bedroom.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Back against the closed door, Cindy turns the lock. Her eyes

shift from despair to relief. Her gaze grows more wild. The

doorknob jiggles. A secret, crazy laugh builds in Cindy that

she suppresses. Dean presses his face into the bedroom door.

He talks to her.

On the other side of the door, Cindy listens. Dean's voice

cracks. A wave of confusion backs Cindy away from the door.

She searches the room for an escape. There are no windows,

the only way out is through the locked door. Trembling, she

wraps her arms around herself. She tries to make herself as

small as possible. The spaceship bed is the only place where

she can disappear. She crawls underneath the covers, curls

into a tight ball. Sadness lets loose. Cindy's body pulses

with faint, painful tears. The black walls of the room

twinkle with stars suspended in space. The cries get lost.

EXT. CITY. NIGHT. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

Drunk, Dean and Cindy make out on the street corner. It is

cold enough to see their breath. Their hands caress each

other, feel what is underneath the layers of clothes. Cindy

makes a move. She unbuttons Dean's Pea-Coat, feels the shape

of his chest, his abdomen, his back.

Are my hands cold?

Yes.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 58.

Dean follows suit, reaching up under her jacket to touch the

skin on her lower back. She recoils from the icy touch.

You wanna go somewhere.

Sure.

Where can we go?

INT. TAXI. NIGHT.

They make out in the back of a cab. But the cab driver won't

allow it. But they can't keep their hands off each other.

They try not to get caught.

INT. DEAN'S FRIEND'S APARTMENT. 5AM. EARLY LIGHT

The door to Jake's room is cracked open and the TV is on.

Dean and Cindy tiptoe in the apartment as quietly as they

can. They can't keep their hands off each other. Dean makes a

bed for them on the couch where he sleeps - straightening out

a couple white sheets. They crawl under with clothes on.

Is your roommate awake?

I don't know. Let me go check.

Dean tiptoes over to Jake's room. Peeks in his door. Returns

to the couch where Cindy is taking off her jacket. He crawls

back under the sheet.

DEAN (WHISPERS) (cont'd)

He's just watching TV.

They start to make out while listening for Jake.

Do you think he's gonna come out?

I don't know... Should I go see if he

brushed his teeth?

She nods. He throws off the sheet and goes into the bathroom,

touches the bristles of Jake's tooth brush. Cindy takes off

her socks and waits for Dean to return.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 59.

DEAN (WHISPERS)(cont'd)

It's still dry.

He gets back on the couch. They kiss. Slowly. Silently. Their

hands search each other under the blanket. Clothing is

removed and there is alot of movement, but the details of

what occurs under that single sheet remain largely a mystery.

Jake's bedroom door opens and Jake walks out into the living

room and into the kitchen. Dean and Cindy pantomime sleeping.

They listen and hear Jake opening the refrigerator, pouring

himself a bowl of cereal, crunching. They feel like he's

watching them. Cindy tries her hardest not to laugh. Jake

stares at the trembling sheet with contempt before returning

to his room. Cindy releases her laugh. Dean tries to shush

her, but he can't help laughing himself.

Be quiet! Seriously. He's gonna kill me.

He already hates me.

You think he's gonna go to sleep now?

They hear Jake changing channels in the other room. As

quietly as possible, they have sex under the sheet.

INT. COLLEGE CAMPUS - BATHROOM - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

A red plus sign bleeds onto the result area of a home

pregnancy test. Cindy sits on a toilet in a stall holding the

positive test stick. A knock on the BATHROOM door.

Just a second...

She wraps the test in toilet paper and buries it in the trash

receptacle. A moment while the door swings closed. Silence.

Cindy opens the stall and confronts herself in the mirror.

INT. AUDITORIUM CLASSROOM - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy writes a note to Dean, his business card sits next to

an envelope.

The note reads: I don't know if I can trust you. Can I trust

you? I'm in trouble.

Bobby places a test paper in front of Cindy. Her grade, "D."

She covers up her note. He leans in and swipes the business

card.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 59A.

Give it back!

Bobby crushes the card in his fist. She tries to pry it open.

She can't. She's not gonna get it back.

EXT. STORAGE FACILITY - PARKING LOT - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER 100

Dean and his buddies, file out of the garage, he notices

Cindy across the street, he looks both ways, crosses the

street toward her. The closer he gets to her, the more

nervous she gets.

Are you okay?

Cindy nods.

CURTIS (O.S.)

See you later, Elvis!

Dean turns around and sees his work buddies busting him for

being a Romeo. He waves goodbye to them, turns back to Cindy,

embarrassed but happy. She smiles, concealing something.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 60.

EXT. BRIDGE - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean and Cindy stand a distance away. Cars beneath them roar.

Is it mine?

Cindy looks Dean in the eyes.

I... I don't know... It might be...

You let that asshole knock you up?

...I'm sorry...I'm sorry...

When'd this happen?

Before us.

What do you want to do?

I don't know.

(after a pause)

We'll keep it. We'll take care of it.

Cindy nods. Silence.

It's not the right time.

Dean looks down, pauses and looks back to Cindy.

Do you want to take care of it?

INT. ABORTION CLINIC - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

A female DOCTOR sits on a wheeled chair in the corner of the

room and looks through Cindy's file.

You can put your clothes on the chair.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 61.

Cindy does.

How are you doing?

Okay...

The DOCTOR wheels over to the table in the center of the

room. She pulls out a clean sheet of examination table paper.

I'm going to have you lie up here, and

put your feet in the stirrups.

Cindy gets on the table, looks over at a tray of instruments.

The Doctor pulls a mask up over her face - the vacuum

aspirator on a wheeled base. Cindy focuses her gaze at the

corrugated ceiling, dim light.

Are you okay?

Yeah.

The Doctor touches Cindy's knee to spread her legs, picks up

an instrument off the table.

I want you to try and relax. This is

going to be a little cold.

The Doctor inserts a speculum into Cindy's vagina.

There, take a deep breath... What do you

do?

I'm a student...

What are you studying?

The Doctor dips a long swab into a solution, inserts it into

her vagina.

I'm studying to be a DOCTOR...

That's what I studied.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 62.

She laughs. Cindy doesn't know what to do with her eyes. The

Doctor picks up a syringe.

What's that?

This is a mild anesthetic for your

cervix. You're going to feel a pinch and

then it's going to feel like electricity.

Cindy looks back up at the ceiling. She steady's her breath.

Can you cough for me.

Cindy coughs.

Good... Why do you want to be a Doctor?

Wheels move across the linoleum floor. The Doctor positions

the vacuum aspirator.

Because... I always thought... it would

be wonderful to take a sick child and...

Cindy cuts herself off. The Doctor holds a hose.

And what?

...heal them...

Cindy, I'm going to begin the procedure.

It won't take long. You may feel a little

cramping.

The Doctor turns on the vacuum. Panic flushes Cindy's face.

Her eyes widen.

Wait... wait.

INT. ABORTION CLINIC - WAITING ROOM - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER 103

A plastic model of a womb and fetus on the magazine-laden

coffee table. Ashtrays overflow. Dean, wearing his work

clothes, sits among several would-be fathers.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 63.

He snuffs his cigarette and studies the fetus in the plastic

uterus. TROY, Bobby's wrestler friend, sits nearby.

The waiting room door opens, Cindy comes out. Dean puts the

model back and stands up. They stare at each other. Dean nods

slightly. Cindy shakes her head "no." A flush of realization

across Dean's face, then a smile. He goes to her and wraps

his arms around her.

TROY (O.S.)

Cindy?

Cindy looks over Dean's shoulder to Troy, who gazes at her

over a magazine. Dean looks back and forth between them.

Cindy looks ahead and walks out with Dean.

INT. BUS - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Darkness passes. Cindy lies against Dean in the back of the

bright bus. Her head rests on his chest, arms holding his

encircling arms. She is wearing the locket around her neck.

Dean caresses Cindy's earlobe. Her eyes are closed.

You're not in this alone. This baby is

ours. It's us. Let's start a family.

Your eyes ever wide open, and you're

dreaming?

Cindy breathes deep & settles into him. Dean hums a lullaby.

You smell like you.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING - PRESENT DAY

Darkness disturbed by beeping. Cindy awakens, dishevelled

from the night before. She lifts her cell phone off the

bedside table and squints to make out the text.

Shit.

She drops it and rolls over. The digital clock reads 4:52...

Moments later... she is on the phone.

CINDY (on phone) (cont'd)

Hi it's Cindy... I have this weekend off.

Cindy unwraps the bandage on her hand. She presses the four

vampire bites to her lips.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 64.

CINDY (cont'd on phone)

...Who didn't show?...Meredith again? How

long can she keep doing this?... Did you

try Janet?...She's your first call....I'm

out of town too...Yes I know, I know all

of it. Yes...It's going to take me a few

hours.

She hangs up, eases the door open. Dean is passed out in the

middle of the hallway. She tries to wake him, but he's

hibernating. She steps over his fallen body.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - VARIOUS - PRESENT DAY

- Cindy washes her face in the shower. She looks at the

vampire holes on the back of her hand.

- her hair in a towel, Cindy flicks on the coffee maker. She

eats a banana. - she throws on jeans and a sweater. - inhales

from an inhaler for her asthma. - holds her eye open and

drops eye-drops. - vigorously brushes her teeth. - drinks

coffee and writes a note on Fantasuite stationery. - washes

the mug in the kitchen sink. - tapes the note to the

television screen. - She stands over DEAN.

Goodbye.

No response. She closes the door behind her.

INT. ROMANTASUITES - LATER - PRESENT DAY

The phone rings. Dean's eyes struggle open, drunk. He listens

annoyed to the ring. After the eighth ring, he hollers.

Cynthia!

No response. He struggles up and stumbles to the phone.

Hello?

A prerecorded message.

Good morning. This is your...11:30

a.m...wake up call.

OK.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 65.

He hangs up the phone and looks around the room.

DEAN (confused) (cont'd)

Cynthia?

He wanders to the bedroom, the door is open. Cindy's bags sit

next to a made bed. He calls out for her again. - He walks

into the bathroom and urinates, finds only a damp towel

hanging over the shower door. He touches the bristles of

Cindy's toothbrush, flicking up a spray of water. - He walks

to the kitchen and lights a cigarette. He coughs a little as

he pours himself a cup of coffee. Zaps it in the microwave.

EXT. ROMANTASUITES - PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY 108

A plane cuts through the sky. Dean stands in front of an

empty parking space. He stares at where her car should be. A

Chrysler Aspen is parked with its back opened. KARINA and

BILLY, two high school kids, toss in luggage.

INT. ROMANTASUITES LOBBY - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Dean leans on the concierge desk.

Was she with a guy?

Like I said, I couldn't say. I just got

here, so maybe she left before I came in.

He types on the computer.

And, she didn't check out. You're still

booked until...Monday morning. 11 am. Is

there anything else I can help you with

sir?

INT. ROMANTASUITES -HALLWAY/MOON ROOM- CONTINUOUS - PRESENT 110

Dean puts his key in the door to his room. Across the

hallway, Billy calls into a room.

BILLY (O.S.)

Hurry up Randy!

Dean walks in to his room, sits down, heavy. His stare is out

of focus. He turns on the TV. Volume comes up loud. The TV

illuminates the note left by Cindy. Dean stares at it for a

moment. He plucks the note from the screen and reads it.

"Dean - I got called in.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 66.

I was going to wake you but I knew you wouldn't understand.

I'll be back this afternoon to get you. We have to talk. I'm

sorry...-C"

Dean eyes search for something. He sees the vodka bottle and

takes a drink. Pacing, he lets out a few angry weeps and

reaches in his front shirt pocket for a cigarette. He's out.

In the ashtray, he grabs a snuffed out butt. He searches for

a lighter. He lights his cigarette on the stove. He hears the

kids in the hallway.

He opens the door and Randy, a hungover high school kid, and

AMANDA, large-chested, short, walk down the hallway, arm and

arm. They slow when see a frighteningly dishevelled Dean,

vodka in hand, cigarette in mouth, framed in the door jam.

INT. BILLY'S CAR - DAY - PRESENT DAY

Dean rides in the back seat of a Jeep Cherokee wedged in

between Amanda and Randy. Billy and Karina sit in the front

seat. Amanda offers Dean a glass pipe.

You want some of this?

Dean accepts the pipe and takes a monster toke, holding it in

until his face turns purple.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - EARLY MORNING - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Spring sky.. Trees blossom. Cindy walks alone down the street

from the train station.

INT. HELLER HOME - EARLY MORNING - 6 YEARS EARLIER

The front door squeaks open, Cindy slips in. Glenda is passed

out on the couch. She tiptoes up the creaking staircase. A

shower runs. She heads down the hallway to her room.

INT. - CINDY'S ROOM - EARLY MORNING - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy opens the door to her bedroom, falls on her bed and is

about to close her eyes but is distracted by the blinking

lights of the answering machine. Cindy presses play.

ANSWERING MACHINE VOICE

You have twenty five new messages. BEEP

Cindy sits up. Bobby voice is heard - drunk.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 67.

BOBBY (on answering machine)

I just want to say to you thanks for

making all bets off and freeing me of my

human decency. All your shit's going in

the trash, your books are gonna be ripped

up. We'll go to war see who'll win. I

know who the fucker is and I'm gonna

destroy him. BEEP You probably don't know

what you did. I want it all to come out.

It'll be beautiful, It'll be sweet, it'll

be awesome. BEEP

Glenda's bloodshot eyeball appears in the doorway.

Bobby (V.O.) (cont'd)

BEEP Well, what I was really trying to

say before your machine cut me off is you

created me, I'm your child... You created

the person that I am now, and now you

have to deal with this person.

A SOUND - Cindy turns around sees her mom in the doorway.

INT. TROY'S CAR - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

The car drives down a highway toward the city. TONY powers

down beers in the back. Underwear hangs from the rearview.

BOBBY (V.O.)

...And I got nothing better to do than

destroy you both. BEEP If you think I'm

being evil, you have no idea, no idea at

all... I'm growing very impatient and I

really don't give a fuck anymore...

Bobby shotguns a beer in the passenger's seat. Speed metal

music and adrenaline. The car blasts down the street to the

storage facility. The three bound out of the car, fists

clenched, geared up for ultraviolence.

INT. STORAGE FACILITY - CONTINUOUS - 6 YEARS EARLIER

They storm the reception. The office is empty - Jo is on her

lunch break. Troy tries the door leading to the garage, it is

locked. So he squeezes through the receptionist window, feels

underneath the desk for the door release button. Tony yanks

on the door. The door buzzes open and the gang, Bobby in the

lead, rush into the cacophonous garage.

INT. HELLER HOME - MORNING. 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy presses the telephone to her ear - waiting...

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 68.

INT. GARAGE - CONTINUOUS

Dean is all alone in the garage, loading up a truck with

reams of cardboard boxes for a big job tomorrow. Bobby and

gang search through a maze of yellow trucks.

Hey faggot!

Dean continues his work.

Is your name Dean?

Who's askin'?

Bobby rushes him, throws a shoulder into his stomach. They

both flail to the floor. The two lock. Everything is quick.

Bobby sends a flurry of punches to Dean's ribs and guts. Dean

pummels the back of Bobby's head with blind overhead rights.

It becomes clear that Bobby has the upper hand. He holds

Dean's bloodied head in some kind of jiujitsu headlock.

Think I'm dumb? Think I'm that dumb?

Dean struggles to breathe but manages to say...

I think you're a fucking idiot.

Bobby hits him again, harder. Harder.

Fucking faggot!

- Troy and Tony watch the door and egg Bobby on. - THE PHONE

RINGS OFF THE HOOK in the EMPTY OFFICE.

INT. HELLER HOME - MORNING. 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy's mind is taking her to bad places. She hangs up. Tells

herself that everything is all right. Paces her room... Picks

up the phone and dials again.

INT. GARAGE - CONTINUOUS - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Troy whistles sharp, warning Bobby that Jo has just arrived.

Bobby kicks Dean while he's down. Dean is beat and Bobby is

running out of breath and strength.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 69.

Stay away from her!

Never.

Bobby looks at his bloodied hands. He lacks the strength to

lift he arms. Gives one last weak kick into Dean's bloodied

face. Troy and Tony pull Bobby out. The gang leaves,

victorious yet somehow defeated. The office phone, which has

been ringing incessantly, stops.

Dean is on the floor in the fetal position. It takes him a

while, but he manages to sit up. He feels the inside of his

split lip with his tongue. He doesn't feel pain as much as he

feels tingling and ringing - all over. Jo comes in. She

freezes when she sees him.

Dean... Telephone.

It takes Dean a while to get up, but he does. And it takes

him a while to get to the office where his phone call awaits.

Once there, he holds the receiver in his hand for a beat...

Hello?

INT. CLINIC - WAITING ROOM - DAY - PRESENT DAY

Cindy wearing scrubs, picks up the ringing phone.

Mediplex... You are going to need to come

in... We're going to need to see him... I

can't diagnose over the phone... About 20-

30 minutes... Okay? ...okay, bye...

Cindy hangs up. She holds a clipboard.

CINDY (reading) (cont'd)

Maria?

A Hispanic women, MARIA GUEVARA - robust, 50's - clutches her

purse and rises off a waiting area chair. Cindy smiles.

Right this way.

INT. CLINIC - EXAMINATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Cindy opens the door and gestures to the examination table.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 70.

Have a seat on the table, Mrs. Guevara.

Maria has a blank look.

Do you speak English? Hablas Ingles?

Maria holds her fingers up, indicating an inch.

Small.

Poquito?

Si.

Yo tabien. De donde eres tu?

El Salvador.

So...Tu famalia esta aqui? Here?

No no.

They're in El Salvador?

Si....Yo...sola. How you say en Ingles?

Sola?

Uh...Sola...Alone.

Si. Alone.

But hopefully not lonely.

Maria hides her face with her hand and lets out a self-

pitying giggle. Cindy looks at her clipboard.

So you're feeling some pain in your left

breast. Uh...Tu dueles en tu chiche?

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 71.

Si Si.

Well let's take a look.

Cindy hands her a paper robe.

Can you take off tu ropas and pongas...

put this on? Okay? Comprende?

Maria nods and takes the robe. Cindy turns to leave.

Lo siento mi Espanol es muy mal.

INT. CLINIC - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Cindy leaves the room and gets a drink of water from the

fountain. Dr. Feinberg approaches her from behind.

DR. FEINBERG

Busy. Haven't sat down yet. Walk with me.

Cindy's holds her clipboard to her chest. He tilts it down

with his finger.

DR. FEINBERG (cont'd)

What do you have?

A woman in 215. Hispanic. 53. Lives

alone. Complaining of pain in her left

breast.

DR. FEINBERG

Uh huh. I'll be in in a minute. By the

way, I was thinking about you.

Oh yeah?

DR. FEINBERG

Yeah, well I can understand how you might

not be able to relocate your whole family

up to Riverdale, with your daughter being

in school and everything. But, I was

thinking, maybe, you could get an

apartment. Work during the week, drive

down on weekends.

They arrive at a door, Room 220.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 72.

DR. FEINBERG (cont'd)

You wouldn't have to worry about being

alone... We could hang out together. Grab

some dinners sometime.

Cindy blushes and then her brow furrows.

I'm married.

DR. FEINBERG

It's not a proposition, I'm just trying

to help.

I don't remember asking you for help.

He holds up his hands and leaves Cindy alone in the hallway.

She looks at the ground, turns around and walks to Room 215.

INT. CLINIC - EXAMINATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Maria sits, still clothed, on the table clutching the robe.

Cindy walks into the room and looks at her.

What's the problem, Maria? Tu sabes?

Cindy pantomimes undoing her shirt.

No comprende? Necessita take off tu

comisitas. Your shirt. Understand?

Maria nods and undoes her blouse. Cindy turns her back. Maria

sits slumped with her blouse opened. Cindy pantomimes

removing her shirt fully. Maria does so and sits with her

hand covering her face. Cindy gestures to her bra.

Por favor, Maria. Come on.

Maria unhooks her bra. A purplish cantaloupe-size abscess

grows on her left breast. Cindy's covers her mouth.

Oh my God. Jesus Christ. Maria...

Maria puts back on her blouse.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 73.

Maria! Que eso? Why didn't you come in

sooner? Why did you wait this long?! Eso

es muy mal. Very bad.

Maria starts to cry.

How could you look at yourself in the

mirror and pretend it's not there? How

long have you been pretending?

Dr. Feinberg walks into the room.

DR. FEINBERG

Cindy. What's going on here?

Cindy points to Maria.

Her breast. Her breast!

Dr. Feinberg takes Cindy's clipboard from her hands.

DR. FEINBERG

I can take over from here.

He talks to Maria calm and clear.

DR. FEINBERG (cont'd)

Hello Mrs. Guevara. I'm Dr. Feinberg. I'm

your DOCTOR. Let me see. It's OK.

He reaches for the trembling Maria's blouse. Maria flinches.

It's probably been growing for years!

Dr. Feinberg turns to Cindy.

DR. FEINBERG

Out!

He turns back to Maria and places his hand on her shoulder.

DR. FEINBERG (cont'd)

It's going to be alright, Mrs. Guevara.

Cindy backs out of the room.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 74.

EXT. CLINIC - DAY - PRESENT DAY

Dean gets out of the Aspen. The kids honk as they drive off.

Drunk and stoned, he walks to the entrance of the clinic

carrying their suitcases.

INT. CLINIC - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Dean walks through the lobby and approaches Mimi at the

reception desk. He drops his baggage.

Ma'am you're going to have to bring him

in...you have to bring him in...

Where's my wife?

She hands him an in-patient form. Dean looks at it.

I'm not sick.

Mimi cups her hand over the phone.

You need to fill that out, sir. You can

go over there.

Mimi returns to the phone.

There's nothing wrong with me.

Dean hands her back the clipboard.

No, you need to fill it out, sir. Bring

it back up to me when you're done.

Where's my wife?

Mimi lowers the phone.

Who's your wife?

Cynthia. Where is she?

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 75.

Are you Dean?

Yeah, are you deaf or are you just dumb?

She puts the phone on hold and disappears into the clinic.

Dean turns around and looks at the people in the waiting

room. He has a slight confrontation with a gang banger.

Cindy approaches from the hallway.

Dean?

Saved you a trip.

I can see that. How'd you get here?

I got a ride.

Mimi appears behind Cindy.

- I was going out of my mind. I didn't

know if there's an emergency. I didn't

know if Francis was hurt. Did you think

about that?

Frankie's fine...

Dean nods. He looks over Cindy's shoulder at Mimi.

Taking pictures?

Mimi sits down at her desk and picks up a ringing phone.

We're not going to do this here.

Cindy crosses the counter, grabs the bags by Dean's feet.

CINDY (to Mimi) (cont'd)

Give me a few minutes.

I'll be right here. Don't let him

brainwash you again.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 76.

Live your life.

Cindy walks out of the clinic hefting her bags.

Help me.

Dean grabs the remaining luggage and follows, throwing back a

look to both Mimi and the Gang-banger.

EXT. CLINIC - PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Dean follows behind Cindy.

Last night got fucked up, OK? I know it.

I know I'm lazy, I eat too much, I drink

too much, I drive you crazy with all my

jealous bullshit. I fuck up. I know I'm

clumsy. But you're not trying anymore.

Cindy hurls the bags into the back of the car. Dean helps.

Please don't make me be alone.

Are you drunk?

I'm OK.

Can you drive?

Yeah. Let's go.

No, you go. Take the car home.

She hands him the keys.

You don't think about anyone but

yourself. Do you?

Cindy walks back to the clinic. Dean follows close behind.

You got no time for me anymore. It all

goes to this fucking job.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 77.

You give it all to them. All these people

who don't give a shit about you. They get

the beautiful version of you. What does

your family get? Nothing. You come home

and you're empty. You think I don't

notice? You think Frankie doesn't notice?

Her mom walking around like a ghost?

You know how many sacrifices I make every

day.

You! What about me? I gave up everything

for you.

I never asked you to! I can't take this

shit anymore.

Cindy enters through the electric doors.

INT. CLINIC - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Dean follows Cindy down the hallway to the employee's lounge.

Take what? What can't you take... The

truth? I know you can't... You never

could.

You're right Dean, I can't take the

truth...I've had it with the truth or

whatever it is you make up along the way

and label as truth... You win. I give

up... I've been lying to you for a long

time.

Who is it?

It's me, Dean. I didn't want to hurt you.

But I'm not the person you fell in love

with. And you won't let me be anything

but that person. That's why I can't look

at you. Because every time I do I can't

stop thinking about how much I want you

to hate me. But you're too stupid to see

it, and too chicken shit to do anything

about it.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 78.

Wait a second...

He grabs her in a hug. Her arms are pressed into her side.

I don't love you anymore... Why can't you

stop loving me?

He pulls back his fist and swings, hitting the metal locker

behind Cindy's head. He repeats the blows with thunderous

rage. Feinberg enters the room.

What the hell is going on!?

Dean turns and takes a blind swing at Feinberg. One blow and

Feinberg reels against the metal lockers. He hits the ground

with a thud. His nose gushes blood. Dean paces around

Feinberg like a caged animal. He pulls down a locker with his

hand. It crashes to the floor. Cindy kneels over Feinberg.

I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Let me see.

You're done. Leave.

Dean jerks Cindy up off the floor.

Get up.

She hits Dean with a flurry of flailing fists.

You son of a bitch!

Punches catch him in the nose. Cindy bullies Dean backwards

with repeated shoves to the chest. He backs up down the

hallway. Mimi stands in the hallway.

Oh my god. Call 911. I'm going to call

911.

The doors slide open and Dean backs outside.

EXT. CLINIC - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Give me the keys.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 79.

She digs into his pocket and fishes them out. She marches to

the car, gets in the driver's seat, starts the car - the

radio blasts at high decibels. Dean bangs on the passenger

side window. Cindy flips the lock. Dean gets in the car.

I want a divorce!

She has emptied herself. Her whole body is numb and it feels

as if she is floating in space. Anger overcomes Dean. He hits

the dashboard with concrete fists.

I know!

He grabs the suitcase next to him and opens the door. He

throws it through the air into a FIELD - trying rid himself

of pain, longing, and desperation. He clutches his wedding

ring, but can't yank it off of his fat finger. Finally, he

gets it off and tosses it into the field. The moment he

releases it, he wishes he hadn't.

MOMENTS LATER - Dean and Cindy search for the ring. It is

lost. Music begins to play in reverse.

INT/EXT. HOME VIDEO MONTAGE:

Various Scenes of the Periera family together...

EXT. FLOWERSHOP. AFTERNOON. 6 YEARS EARLIER.

All kinds of flowers. Colors, smells. Freshly arranged. Dean

studies them. Finds the one's he likes. And steals them.

EXT. STREET - DUSK - 6 YEARS EARLIER

We follow Dean from behind - walking down the middle of the

street. He holds the flowers. Meanwhile, we hear Cindy asking

her gramma questions about love and life. "What's it like to

be old?" - "when did men stop looking at you?" She confides

her feelings for Dean. (The responses will be real responses -

a real conversation).

INT. HELLER HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy and Gramma sit at the dinner table. The sound of

boiling. Steam rises out of the pots and pans. They continue

their conversation.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 80.

EXT./INT. HELLER HOME - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean finds the house. He straightens himself, walks to the

front door, rings the BELL, checks the smell of his hands.

Jerry, bourbon in hand, opens the door. Dean's face is purple

and swollen from the fight.

I didn't know if it was pot luck so I

brought an eggplant.

He points at his face. Behind Jerry, Cindy peeks out from the

kitchen at the end of the hallway. It is the first time she

has seen Dean since the fight. She is shocked.

Face looks like an eggplant, don't it?

How you doing sir, I'm Dean.

Dean holds out his hand. Jerry looks Dean up and down.

Oh God.

Cindy squeezes by her father to Dean. The expression on her

face says it all. Dean hands her the flowers, leans in and

kisses her. While he's there he whispers.

I stole these for you.

Are you okay?

Dean nods. She leads him down the hall. Jerry stops, turns.

JERRY (to Cindy)

Tell him to take off his shoes.

Dean removes his boots. A toe wiggles out of a holey sock. He

gathers the hole and tucks it between his big toe and his

second toe. Cindy leads him by the hand to the kitchen.

INT. HELLER HOME - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS - 6 YEARS EARLIER

The Heller family and Dean sit around the table. Jerry,

Glenda and Gramma bow their heads, saying grace.

ALL EXCEPT DEAN

Come lord Jesus, be our guest, and let

thy gifts to us be blessed. Amen.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 81.

Glenda continues with a little speech about choices, and

needing to be able to make mistakes with our choices. Her

speech continues over the next images...

- They eat. Dean compliments the meal. Glenda is self

depreciating. Jerry is judgemental. Gramma wants to go home.

Cindy can't take her eyes off of Dean - she has fallen.

LATER - Cindy leads Dean upstairs to her room.

INT. CINDY'S ROOM - NIGHT - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean follows, obediently. Cindy closes her door behind him.

She begins gently kissing Dean's wounds. Whispers.

Does that hurt.

No. It feels good. Keep doing it.

She does and is interrupted by... The FAINT SOUND of her

parents fighting downstairs.

JERRY (O.S.)

...She's going to struggle the rest of

her Goddamn life with that fucking loser.

And that's okay with you. Sit there...sit

there on your fat ass don't do a goddamn

thing.

Maybe I should go.

Why? They'll stop soon.

I'm going to miss my train.

Good.

Cindy goes over to her stereo and turns on some music, low -

it is the same song that Dean and Cindy listened to in the

moon room. It drowns out some of the fighting. She approaches

him, starts unbuttoning his shirt.

Promise me one thing... you'll never let

me become an adult.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 82.

Okay.

She kisses him. Opens up his shirt. Reveals a severely

bruised torso. He winces a bit from the movement. She

redresses his wounds, nursing him back to health.

That motherfucker.

She kisses his chest. Dean starts getting underneath Cindy's

clothes. He places his palm on her belly.

I love you.

I love you too.

Really?

Yeah.

From here on out, their actions increase with urgency. Each

moment that goes by makes them more and more desperate to

feel the other's skin. They are down to their underwear when

they hear a door slam downstairs.

Are your parent's gonna walk in on us?

They never come in here.

They make sweet love.

EXT. HELLER HOME - DAY - PRESENT DAY

The front door bursts open and Frankie, still in her leopard

costume, charges down the walkway.

Daddy! Daddy! Mommy!

Cindy's car sits in the driveway. Cindy gets out, grabs her

suitcase. Jerry emerges from the house. Cindy kneels down and

hugs Frankie. She is electricity in her arms.

Who had candy for breakfast?

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 83.

Frankie doesn't answer and squirms out of Cindy's arms. She

runs to Dean who gets out of the car like a wounded soldier.

Hey sweetheart.

Frankie leaps into Dean's arms. Cindy walks up to the house.

How was Frankie?

She was good. Are you OK?

I'm OK.

Cindy kisses her father on the cheek, closes the screen door.

DEAN (holding Frankie)

I can't play right now, okay?

He releases his wired daughter who runs circles around him.

Dean walks up to the porch. He and Jerry stand face to face.

Do you want to get out of my way.

Jerry backs away. Dean walks past him into the house.

I don't know what happened up there. But

please Dean, come on. Don't push it. Let

it be...

Dean closes the screen door behind him and locks it. Jerry

pulls on the door.

Hey! You can't lock me out of my own

house!

Dean calls back.

Keep an eye on Francis.

I don't have my oxygen! Hey!

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 84.

INT. HELLER HOME - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy puts on a simple yellow dress. She checks herself in

the mirror. Her hand traces the bump on her belly.

INT. HELLER HOME - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Cindy pours a glass of water. She gulps down aspirin. Dean

keeps his distance at the edge of the room.

In the backyard, Frankie makes herself dizzy by twirling.

Jerry cranes his neck to look into the window of his house.

I'm not coming home.

Fear strikes Dean. He presses the base of his palms into his

eyes, rubbing until he sees stars.

We're not alone here Cynthia. We have a

little girl. We need to think about her.

I am thinking about her.

All you're thinking about is yourself.

You. Francis is gonna grow up in a broken

home and that's OK with you.

I can't let her grow up in a home where

her parents don't love each other.

Don't love each other? I've only ever

loved you.

Dean approaches her from behind. Reaches out...

INT. DEAN'S FRIEND'S APARTMENT - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean wears his baby blue tux. He looks himself up and down in

the mirror. Takes a deep breath.

INT. HELLER HOME - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

Cindy flinches from Dean's touch. A look of terror in her

eyes. Dean hushes her. He leads her to a chair and sits her

down. He kneels by her side and repeats her name.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 85.

...Cynthia...Cynthia...

He holds her hands and gropes her arms, legs, shoulders

whatever she will let him touch. Cindy has tears in her eyes

but she is focused. There is nothing to say.

INT. MUNICIPAL COURTHOUSE - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean takes a quarter, places it in a gumball machine, turns

the crank. A plastic box rolls out. He takes it, shakes it -

inside is a plastic ring. She takes a quarter and follows

suit, buying another plastic ring.

INT. HELLER HOME - VARIOUS - CONTINUOUS - PRESENT DAY

In THE KITCHEN, Frankie climbs in through the old dog door.

She sees her father kneeling on the floor at her mother's

feet. Perplexed, she pulls at her bottom lip with her finger.

Cindy releases herself from Dean's grip and goes to her

suitcase. She carries it up the stairs.

Dean and Cindy wait together in a room filled with other

people about to get married. They observe these other people

and create fictional narratives about them and their lives

for each other.

INT. CINDY'S ROOM- CONTINUOUS,

Cindy opens the door and sets her suitcase on the dusty bed.

The room is just like it used to be.

BACK INT THE KITCHEN- CONTINUOUS

Dean is defeated. He sits back against the cupboards and

hangs his head down low between his knees. Frankie touches

his shoulders. She gives him a massage.

I want to stay at Grampa's house next

time for fifty nights.

Dean looks up. He has tears in his eyes. Frankie touches one

as it streams down his face.

Why you crying?

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 85A.

Dean can't answer. Frankie slides a chair over to the sink.

She steps up and fills the glass with water. Balancing it

still, she brings it to Dean. She takes a sip and hands the

glass to him. He drinks.

Thank you...

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 86.

Cindy comes down the stairs.

Daddy's gonna go now, OK.

Dean stands and picks up Frankie. He walks to Cindy and hands

her over.

INT. MUNICIPAL COURTHOUSE - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Cindy and Dean stare into each other's eyes. The JUSTICE OF

THE PEACE reads them their vows.

EXT. HELLER HOME - LATE AFTERNOON - PRESENT DAY

Frankie tries to squirm out of her mother's arms.

Daddy!

Dean walks out the front door where he passes Jerry who

stands on the porch. He moves across the lawn to the

sidewalk. Vermillion light falls in the sky.

Cindy sets Frankie down and she runs out the door. Jerry

catches the little girl by the arm and holds her tight.

Dean walks toward the horizon.

FRANKIE (SCREAMS) (cont'd)

Daddy!

Dean stops and turns. Cindy walks to the porch.

Let her go, Dad.

Jerry releases her and Frankie runs fast to Dean. She jumps

at him to go into his arms. He doesn't pick her up. From the

porch Cindy and Jerry watch Dean as he points to them.

Frankie doesn't move. Dean yells for her to go back. Frankie

heads back to her mother, confused. Cindy kneels down and

takes her in her arms.

Families light fireworks off in the middle of the streets.

EXT. HELLER HOME STREET- CONTINUOUS

DEAN continues down the street that connects with other

streets, all lined with pretty houses.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 86A.

The houses form neighborhoods that join with other

neighborhoods forming towns. Beyond the towns, hills stretch

far into to the horizon. Fireworks explode against dark blue

on blue.

Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 87.

INT. MUNICIPAL COURTHOUSE - DAY - 6 YEARS EARLIER

Dean and Cindy consecrate their vows. The ceremony lasts all

of 45 seconds.

... you may now kiss the bride.

Dean and Cindy kiss. We hold on the kiss for as long as it

takes. They stop kissing and look at each other in the eyes.

Then, they start to hug. And hug... and hug...

The title BLUE VALENTINE superimposes on top of the image.

Credits start to scroll over...

A SERIES OF PORTRAITS/DOCUMENTS OF MARRIAGES. REAL PEOPLE

REALLY GETTING MARRIED. WE PLAY WITNESS TO THEM ALL.

