THE SCREEN IS BLACK

FADE IN:

INT. SHOPPING MALL - DAY

THE CAMERA LOOKS DOWN ON three levels of escalators

transporting a smattering of Southwestern shoppers -- some

in cowboy hats.

AS CREDITS ROLL

A SERIES OF ANGLES of shoppers being conveyed up and down.

EXT. ARIZONA DESERT - SUNSET

A beautiful vista -- cacti and sage dot the landscape as it

rises to mountains in the distance.

END CREDITS

THE CAMERA PANS revealing an island of modern culture --

malls and more malls, parking lots, and fast food franchises.

FADE IN TITLE: ENFIELD, ARIZONA

A brown Pinto pulls out of a parking lot and into rush hour

traffic.

INT. PINTO - DUSK

BETH WALKER is driving. She looks younger, but she's twenty-

eight. She has a strong face and flashing intelligent eyes.

She's wearing a WAITRESS UNIFORM from Friendly's. She's deep

in thought.

Beth pulls up to stoplight and stops.

SOUND: A gentle toot of car horn.

Beth looks up, startled.

BETH'S POV

SID, a pleasant looking twenty-four year old, is in a pick-

up truck next to her. He smiles and points up toward the

traffic light.

BETH

She looks up toward the traffic light.

TRAFFIC LIGHTS

They're red except for one with a lit green arrow.

BETH AND SID

She pantomimes that she's in the wrong lane and wants to go

straight.

Sid pantomimes that he'll let her cut in front of him.

SOUND: Horns honk impatiently.

THE INTERSECTION

Beth pulls away in front of the pick-up truck. The HONKING

continues. Sid looks back at the honking car, cheerfully

waves to it.

EXT. CAROL'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A tiny well-kept Spanish style home in lower middle class

residential section.

INT. CAROL'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

It's neat and smartly furnished -- discount Swedish modern,

framed deco posters, some nice plants. The only problem is

it seems a little more like a well-designed waiting room

than a home.

There's an empty ice bucket, several empty liquor bottles,

and a swinging metal ball thingabobby on a chrome and glass

coffee table in front of leather sofa.

CAROL AND NICK are curled up together on the sofa, drinks in

hand.

They're both in their late twenties. Carol's dressed in the

casually stylish clothes worn by women who work in shopping

mall boutiques.

Nick's clothes are frumpled, a knit tie loose around his

neck. They've achieved a state of contemplative drunkenness.

Carol sips her drink. Nick sips his drink. Carol sips her

drink. Nick brings his glass to his lips, hesitates...

Carol shakes her head in weary disbelief.

She knocks back her drink. Nick broods.

Carol stares at him. He knocks back his drink.

She pours herself another drink.

INT. BETH'S CAR - NIGHT

She stops at an intersection.

Headlights flash from behind her. She turns and looks.

BETH'S POV

Sid's smiling from his truck right behind her. He flashes

his lights again.

INT. BETH'S PINTO

Beth looks up in the rearview mirror, amused.

REARVIEW MIRROR

Sid turns off, disappearing into the night.

BETH

Surprised to find herself vaguely disappointed, she drives

on.

INT. CAROL'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

It's small, prefab, and tidy. It has a counter with shutters

that open onto the living room. Nick is kneeling, going

through bottles in a cabinet.

Nick stands, with an almost empty bottle of Johnny Walker

Red.

He pours himself a drink. Carol shuts the cabinet.

Nick opens a cabinet under the sink and tosses the empty

bottle in the trash. He begins to pace. Carol shuts the

cabinet and follows him with her gaze.

As Nick speaks, he gestures grandly with his drink, liquor

splashing unnoticed over the sides.

He stops and slugs back his drink.

INT. BETH'S PINTO - CONTINUOUS

Beth pulls up to a stoplight, her face blank with thought.

She's suddenly lit by the flash of headlights going on and

off. She looks up and smiles.

EXT. INTERSECTION - CONTINUOUS

Sid's pick-up truck is facing her across the intersection.

It slowly pulls up beside her and stops.

He smiles and gives a little wave of his hand.

Without knowing why, she smiles and waves back.

She drives away. Sid stares after her.

INT. CAROL'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Carol lifts the end metal ball on the thingabobby and releases

it, starting the chain reaction. She stares at it clacking

back and forth as she speaks.

Nick paces.

Carol stops the metal ball. She releases two balls, starting

a new chain reaction.

Nick slumps on the sofa beside her.

As Carol speaks she pokes at Nick. He fends off her blows.

By the end of her speech she is on top of him mock-strangling

him.

Nick and Carol collapse into laughter. The front door opens.

Beth steps in. Carol quickly lets go of Nick's neck and gets

off him.

NICK AND CAROL

Embarrassed, they both smile self-consciously.

There's an awkward instant followed by too much cheerfulness.

BETH

stands in the doorway, awkwardly conscious of having

interrupted something.

EXT. FRONT LAWN - NIGHT

Nick and Beth are standing in the lawn, lit by the glow of

the porch lamp.

Both sides of the street are lined with nearly identical

tiny faux Spanish houses.

THE FRONT DOORWAY

Carol waves.

ANOTHER ANGLE INCLUDING NICK, BETH, AND CAROL

CAROL

smiles to herself, a trace of sadness in her eyes.

She shuts the door.

NICK AND BETH

She starts to walk across the lawn. She stops and stares at

Nick, who's staring out into the night, oblivious to her.

He turns and looks at her.

He walks up to her and past her -- when she doesn't fall

into step, he stops.

She smiles and shakes her head.

He puts his arms around her waist from behind, and nestles

her against his body.

She pulls away from him and starts walking to the house next

door. He falls into step with her.

They arrive at their front door. Beth takes out her keys.

Nick stops her hand and kisses her. She kisses him back.

She nods and looks to the lock.

Beth looks to Nick. He stares out at the night.

CLOSE-UP: COFFEE-MAKER

The coffee-maker clock hits nine o'clock. The coffee maker

clicks on with a rattle. Steam starts to spew out.

The coffee-maker makes horrible gurgling sounds.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

The kitchen is small and a little grimy, its furnishings

fatigued.

Nick stares at the coffee-maker in disbelief. He's dressed

in a dress shirt, untied necktie, and slacks. He's carrying

a sportscoat with a Sears' employee name-tag attached.

Beth walks into the kitchen, wearing a robe and carrying the

paper.

Nick points accusingly at the coffee maker as water pours

down from around its top.

She drops the paper on the kitchen table and gets a mug off

the counter.

He angrily wraps the cord around the coffee-maker.

She sips her coffee. She flips open a box of Dunkin' Donuts.

Beth shrugs and takes a donut out of the box. She leans

against the counter, eating the donut.

Nick walks past Beth and jams the coffee maker into the trash.

Nick pushes a button on the blender. It makes a horrible

GRINDING WHINE. He unplugs it.

He jams the blender into the trash.

They stare at each other. Nick picks the almost full pint

bottle of scotch off the counter and puts it in his jacket

pocket. Beth takes another donut.

EXT. NICK AND BETH'S CARPORT - MINUTES LATER

Beth is holding a donut and her coffee mug. Nick tosses his

jacket into the front seat of his old sedan.

Beth sips her coffee, waiting for Nick to decide.

Nick looks at his watch.

He kisses Beth, surprising her. He presses against her. He

takes the donut from her hand and takes a bite.

Beth kisses Nick, his mouth still full of donut.

He kisses her fully, then breaks the kiss.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - MORNING

About hundred cars dot the vast parking lot.

Nick swings into a parking spot and gets out of the car. He

tosses his jacket on the roof and crouches, tieing his necktie

using the car's outside mirror.

NICK'S POV - IN THE MIRROR

CHIP, a big redheaded guy in his late thirties, wearing a

jacket and tie, is grinning at the crouched Nick. Nick's

reflection grins back.

NICK AND CHIP

Nick straightens up and grabs his jacket. They start walking

toward the mall.

They approach the employees entrance.

Nick opens the door.

Nick follows Chip in.

The door shuts behind him.

CLOSE-UP - NEWSPAPER

The front page of the Phoenix Sun-Times -- the headline reads

"Misery Index Soars".

Beth's hand comes INTO FRAME and crumples the page.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Beth stuffs the paper in a glass and wraps the glass in

another piece. She's sitting on the floor, surrounded by

dishes, newspaper, and cardboard liquor boxes. She adds the

wrapped glass to a box.

She hears the SOUND of a CAR DOOR SLAMMING, looks up, then

returns to her packing. She reaches behind herself into the

trash, pulls out the blender, and begins to wrap it.

At the SOUND of the FRONT DOOR opening, followed by a curious

METALLIC CLUNKING, she stands and hurries through the swinging

door to the living room.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The living room is sparsely furnished -- a sofa, a coffee

table, a bookcase cluttered with a handful of paperbooks, a

couple of boardgames, a dying cactus, etc. A crappy old

fifteen inch t.v. on a t.v. tray. WE SEE this for a moment

before...

A paint-splattered cloth is unfurled FILLING THE SCREEN.

It gently floats down, revealing a PAINTER and his shopping

cart overloaded with supplies. He's dressed in paint-

splattered clothes. A paint-splattered Red Sox cap is pulled

low over his eyes, obscuring his face.

Beth stares in disbelief. Without seeing her, the painter

backs up, his attention focused on spreading the dropcloth.

The painter looks up from the drop-cloth, ready to deal with

this obstacle. He freezes. His face lights up.

It's Sid.

Beth stares in agitated disbelief.

With his untaken extended hand, he pulls a long strip of

masking tape from a roll around his wrist, masking one side

of the door frame from top to bottom.

He stands on his tiptoes and puts a strip of masking tape on

the top edge of the doorframe.

He masks the remaining side of the door frame.

Sid moves to a window.

Sid pulls a strip of tape off the roll.

He holds out the end of the masking tape.

Beth takes it. He walks backwards, easing a long strip of

tape off the roll.

He tears the tape off the roll and sticks it to the top of

the baseboard in one corner.

Crouched, he waddles across the room toward Beth, applying

the masking tape to the baseboard. He gets to Beth, stands

up, takes the tape off her fingers, and presses it into place.

He hands her the end of the tape again and begins another

baseboard.

He goes along the floor pressing the masking tape to the

baseboard.

Beth looks at the walls. He's right.

Beth kneels down, holding the tape, as he arrives at her end

of the wall.

Beth holds out the tape. They are kneeling next to each other.

Beth stares at Sid. Sid looks to Beth. Smiling, he takes the

tape from her fingers.

EXT. PIZZA HUT - AFTERNOON

An oasis in the center of a packed mall parking lot. Carol

hurries toward the front entrance in a snappy skirt and blazer

combo, a Bullock's name tag attached to her lapel.

INT. PIZZA HUT - CONTINUOUS

Nick is sitting at a booth, a beer in front of him, lost in

thought.

Carol arrives, drops a gift-wrapped box on the table, and

scoots into the booth.

Nick takes it.

He quickly unwraps it.

He spreads the map out over the table.

A MAP

of the Western half of the U.S.A. fills the FRAME. Carol's

hand, holding a bright red felt-tip pen, ENTERS FRAME.

She circles it. Nick's finger ENTERS FRAME.

Carol circles Billings. Nick's finger starts to trace the

route.

Carol's pen follows, marking the route. Halfway to Billings,

Nick's finger abruptly stops. Carol stops the pen at the

same point.

NICK AND CAROL

He looks to her for a reaction.

Nick starts to fold the map -- very unsuccessfully.

Nick hands her the map. She deftly folds it in one motion

and hands it back to him.

He leans over the table and kisses her. She stands.

INT. BETH AND NICK'S LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Two of the walls gleam with fresh paint.

Sid is painting with long-handled roller.

Beth, enters, hesitates, and then -- consciously ignoring

him -- walks by with a packed box and adds it to the stack

by the front door.

Beth starts back to the kitchen. Sid and THE CAMERA FOLLOW.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

The dishes are mostly packed.

She picks up two empty liquor boxes.

Beth carries the boxes out of the kitchen -- Sid and THE

CAMERA FOLLOW.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Beth walks right on through followed by the talking Sid and

THE CAMERA.

Beth goes into the small hallway, Sid and THE CAMERA FOLLOW.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Beth walks toward the bedroom, Sid right behind her.

They enter the bedroom, THE CAMERA FOLLOWING.

INT. BEDROOM

There's a queen-sized bed, a bureau, a mirror, and a closet.

Beth takes the boxes to the closet.

Sid sits on the bed, checking it's firmness.

Sid gets off the bed and with a grin, gingerly pats out the

wrinkles he's made in the bed spread.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - AFTERNOON

Nick and Carol are walking away from the Pizza Hut, across a

huge parking lot, toward a large mall. Cars circle past them,

searching for close spots.

Carol stops. On her face, the answer to his question is clear --

she was stuck on Nick then and she's still stuck on him now.

But she'd never let him know that.

She starts walking. Nick hurries up beside her. They walk

side by side for a few paces before the shotdown Nick comes

up with a new ploy to win favor.

INT. NICK AND BETH'S BEDROOM HALLWAY - AFTERNOON

Beth's taking extra sheets and towels from the linen closet

and packing them in liquor boxes.

Sid enters from the living room.

INT. THE LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The furniture is kind of ugly, but the walls look great. The

whole room seems brighter, almost magically more cheerful.

Sid runs into the room and flops onto the sofa. He settles

in and sighs contentedly.

The front door BURSTS open. Sid leaps up.

Carol races into the room.

She sees Sid and freezes.

Beth hurries into the living room.

Carol glances pointedly at Sid then returns her attention to

Beth.

He holds out a hand to shake. Carol stares at his outstretched

hand.

Carol takes Beth by the arm and leads her away from Sid. She

stares back over her shoulder at Sid.

Taking the hint, he begins to stir a can of paint, assuming

an air of indifference. Carol turns her attention back to

Beth.

INT. SEARS TELEVISION DEPARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Nick is standing next to RORY, a precocious eight year old

boy who's staring at a soap opera on a big screen t.v. As

Nick and Rory talk, the soap ACTOR and ACTRESS passionately

embrace.

Rory listens attentively.

In the BACKGROUND, on the big screen t.v., the soap actress

breaks the embrace and points a gun at the actor.

The soap actress shoots the actor. He stares at her in

overacting disbelief and slumps to the floor.

INT. BETH'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Carol watches as Sid whistles cheerfully, ripping the long

strips of masking tape off the trim.

Sid wads the tape into a big ball.

Sid shoots the tape ball into his shopping cart of supplies.

Carol thinks for a moment. It's been a long time and she's

not crazy about him being there.

Sid takes a joint out of his shirt pocket.

He takes a drag.

He hands the joint to Carol.

CAROL

takes a drag on the joint like an old pro.

Carol chokes back wheezes and then explodes in a coughing

fit.

INT. APPLIANCE CENTER - LATER

Nick and MAJOR JENKINS, a uniformed military man in his late

forties, are standing in front of a wall of silent color

televisions. On the t.v.s a nearly identical pairs of LOCAL

ANCHORS smile their way through the news.

Nick put his arm around the man's shoulder and guides him

toward a display case.

They stop at the case. Nick points.

CLOSE-UP

A tiny two inch Casio television playing "Gilligan's Island".

NICK AND JENKINS

Nick looks to see the Jenkin's reaction. Jenkins stares

dumbfounded at the tiny t.v. He looks to Nick.

Beth enters the FRAME. Nick doesn't see her.

Nick stifles a strange urge to giggle. Beth tries to subtly

get Nick's attention.

Beth fake coughs to get his attention. Nick sees her.

Nick turns to Beth with a burst of salesman cheer.

Beth approaches them, still not sure what Nick's up to.

Nick holds out the receipt.

Beth takes the receipt.

Nick turns his full attention to the man.

Beth stares at Nick, amazed that he's managed to come up

with a plan that has her taking the television.

INT. SEARS - CONTINUOUS

Beth rides down on the escalator, the receipt clenched in

her hand, surrounded by other shoppers, as a tinny Muzak

version of the "Theme from The Mary Tyler Moore Show" drones

on in the background.

Conflicting emotions cloud her face.

CLOSE-UP - A HUGE T.V. BOX

As Sid's jacknife ENTERS FRAME and zips through the packing

tape, THE CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal...

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The sun is low, giving the room a golden glow.

Sid and Beth are sitting on the sofa, the t.v. box on the

floor in front of them.

Sid opens the television box. Slowly, he pulls out the sheets

of bubbled packing plastic. He pops several of the bubbles.

Beth holds the box. Sid starts to lift out the television.

Beth looks to him, anxiously.

Beth listens, nervously. Sid grins.

Embarrassed, Sid pulls Visine from a pocket and drips it in

his eyes as he speaks.

Beth laughs.

Sid pulls the t.v. up and out of the box. He sits back on

the sofa, the t.v. in his lap.

The t.v. is spectacular -- huge, metallic, and ultra-modern.

Beth stares at the television. Sid stares at Beth. She meets

his eyes, then looks quickly back to the television.

INT./EXT. SEDAN - ENFIELD'S MAIN DRAG - DUSK

Nick is driving. His face is beaded with sweat as he drags

heavily on a cigarette. He pushes the buttons on his radio,

getting NEWS BROADCASTS.

Nick turns the radio off.

He pulls the scotch bottle from his jacket and takes a slug.

He jerks his necktie loose and slips it over his head. He

tosses it into the back seat.

NICK'S SEDAN

swerves into a vast mall parking lot.

EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - MINUTES LATER

Through the flow of traffic, WE SEE Nick standing at a

payphone on the outside wall of a Red Lobster Restaurant.

Nick speaks urgently into the phone, punctuating his

conversation with edgy body language. Abruptly, he hangs up.

INT. CAROL'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Carol hangs up a wallphone. She leans against the

refridgerator, her expression a controlled blank. She turns

her head and looks out her kitchen window.

CAROL'S POV

Through Nick and Beth's living room window, WE SEE Sid

struggling under the weight of the t.v. as Beth laughingly

gestures where she wants it.

INT. BETH AND NICK'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Beth and Sid are kneeling on the floor in front of the t.v.

Playing on the t.v. a rock video featuring girls, guitars,

and the endless highway.

Sid takes the remote from Beth and turns the VOLUME UP very

loud.

Carol enters through the front door, unseen by the mesmerized

t. v. viewers.

Sid and Beth stare at the television, completely engrossed.

Carol stares at them for a long moment.

Startled, Sid and Beth jump back. They look at each other

and laugh.

Beth turns the VOLUME DOWN as Carol comes and looks at the

t.v.

Carol looks to Beth, a quizzical expression on her face.

Beth turns off the t.v. There's a moment of awkward silence

as they all stare at the blank screen.

He goes to his shopping cart of supplies. Carol and Beth

stare at the television.

The television stares back at them, gleamingly modern.

She looks to Beth. Beth is grinning.

The Visine comes flying INTO FRAME. Carol fumbles, then

catches it.

Carol tilts back her head and manuevers the Visine.

Beth goes to her and takes the Visine.

She puts a drop in one eye. Carol flinches.

Carol blinks and wipes a Visine tear off her cheek.

She tilts Carol's head back.

Beth puts a drop in Carol's eye. Carol flinches and rubs her

eye.

She sighs, cheerfully exasperated.

Carol braces herself.

They stare into each other's eyes.

After a long moment Carol averts her eyes and looks down.

Beth takes a deep breath, controlling her emotions.

Beth sinks onto the arm of the sofa to support herself.

CLOSE-UP: BETH

The truth makes its way deeply into her.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The lightly traveled highway cuts a straight line through

the desert.

Nick's sedan pulls off into a service station with a giant

teepee beside it.

EXT. SERVICE STATION

The wind is roaring, kicking up swirls of grey dust in the

flourescent light of the service station.

A TEENAGE NAVAJO boy is filling Nick's tank. Nick leans

against the car staring at the giant teepee.

A gust of wind sends dust into Nick's eye.

Nick pulls a bill out of his wallet and holds it out.

The Navajo Teen takes the bill and takes a wad of bills from

his pocket.

Nick stares out at the moonlit desert and the mountains rising

in the distance.

He opens Nick's car door for him.

The Navajo teen nods.

He gets in the car, his mood darkening, and pulls his door

shut with a slam.

The Navajo teen shrugs. Nick starts the engine.

INT. A BAR IN ENFIELD - NIGHT

A dimly lit room filled with raucous customers and lots of

neon beer signs. Waitresses in red dresses tote pitchers of

brew to the thirsty throng. At the far end a band plays a

foot-stompin' good time tune about a trucker on his way to

see his woman.

THE CAMERA MOVES through the crowd and discovers Carol and

Beth sitting at a small table, an almost finished pitcher of

beer between them.

They speak loudly to be heard over the din.

Beth shakes her head then takes a sip of her beer -- it tastes

bitter in her mouth and she puts her glass down in disgust.

Beth stares at her beer. Carol puts a hand comfortingly on

Beth's arm.

A big-haired WAITRESS approaches the table.

Carol looks to Beth.

Carol throws the waitress a look that could kill. Beth takes

a deep breath.

INT./EXT. NICK'S SEDAN - HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Nick stares at the road ahead. He takes rapid drags on a

cigarette. The RADIO is barely audible over the ROAR of the

WIND through the open windows.

Nick turns the radio off.

He fumbles the cigarette into the ashtray.

He takes a pint of scotch from the front seat, uncaps it,

takes a slug, takes another slug, recaps it, and drops it

back on the seat.

He stares at the road. He looks down to the front seat and

finds the map. He splits his attention between the road and

unfolding the map. The wind catches the map.

The map billows up, covering his face. Losing control of the

car, Nick slaps it down.

A car HORN blares.

Nick jerks the car back into his lane, bats the map down

again, and pulls off to the side of the road.

He stops the car and slams the shift into park.

He opens his door a crack, turning on the dome light. He

smooths out the map on the dashboard.

Billings and Enfield are marked with Carol's big red circles.

CLOSE-UP - THE MAP

Nick's finger traces from Enfield toward Billings along the

route Carol highlighted with the red felt-tip. Halfway to

Billings, the red line stops. Nick's finger stops.

NICK

He stares at the map.

INT. BETH'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Beth comes in the front door. The sound of Sid whistling

comes softly from the kitchen.

Beth stares at the t.v. for a moment then strides purposefully

toward the kitchen.

INT. BETH'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Sid is standing on the counter masking the top sill of the

kitchen window. There's half a donut hanging from his mouth.

Beth comes through the swinging door.

The half-donut falls from the startled Sid's mouth.

He picks up the half-donut.

Sid climbs down and sits on the counter, dropping the half-

donut back into the donut box.

So was Sid -- but he realizes Beth doesn't believe it can be

as simple as that.

Sid holds out the box of donuts to her.

She takes a donut and fiddles with it.

Beth smiles weakly. Abruptly, she drops her donut back in

the box.

She opens up the back door and steps out. Sid stares at the

empty doorway.

EXT. BACK STOOP - CONTINUOUS

Beth stands in the moonlight, staring out at the stars.

Sid steps out behind her.

She walks out into the backyard. Sid follows her.

The moonlight through the orange trees casts a magical air

about the backyard. Beth stops by a swingset.

Beth stiffens.

She walks away from him. He watches her intently.

She looks to him.

Beth stares at Sid.

She turns away from him. He stands behind her, close.

She turns and faces him. The moonlight casts a pale glow

over them.

She stares in his eyes for a long moment. She steps back

from him.

She walks away from him, back to the swingset.

Sid follows and takes her arms, turning her to face him.

He pulls her very close. He lets go of her arms so she is

standing against him, unrestrained.

Beth stares at his face for a long time.

She kisses him, suddenly, long and slow.

They kiss, pulling each other tight.

They lose their balance and stagger against the swingset,

kissing passionately. Beth pulls back.

EXT. TWO-STORY SUBURBAN RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

A canopy of stars hangs over it.

INT. NICK'S SEDAN - CONTINUOUS

Nick is parked, staring at the house. The roadmap is on the

seat beside him. He takes a drink from a half empty pint of

scotch. He screws the cap on and drops the bottle on the

map.

He steps out of the car, unsteadily.

EXT. RANCH HOUSE'S FRONT LAWN - CONTINUOUS

Nick walks toward the door. He stops, stares at the door and

starts back for his car. He stops, shakes his head, and walks

quickly to the front door.

FRONT PORCH

Nick stands, staring at the door. He knocks. He waits

impatiently, then pounds on the door. On his third pound the

lights in the house suddenly go on.

OVER NICK'S SHOULDER

The door abruptly opens.

MR. AUGUST, an eighty year old man, stands in the doorway.

HE wears pajamas, slippers, and a long robe. He is over six

and a half feet tall.

NICK AND MR. AUGUST

Nick, startled, steps back. Mr. August stares at him. Nick

composes himself.

Mr. August stares at him.

Mr. August calmly puts his hands over his ears, and slowly

shakes his head.

ELIZABETH, a fifteen year old girl steps out from behind Mr.

August. She seems very small next to Mr. August. He puts a

hand on her shoulder. She stares at Nick.

Nick looks past them into the house.

He holds out a hand to Mr. August, who slowly shakes it.

Nick breaks the handshake. Mr. August smiles at him. Nick

looks to Elizabeth.

He waits for her to introduce herself. She doesn't.

Elizabeth stares at him. Nick tries his salesman charm.

INT. BETH'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Bathed in moonlight, Sid and Beth make tender passionate

love.

Sid has never wanted someone so much and Beth has never felt

so wanted.

Beth clings to Sid as if she were afraid of being swept

away... and then she is.

INT. MR. AUGUST'S DINING ROOM - LATER

A chandelier casts a gently sparkling golden glow.

The CAMERA TILTS down to reveal...

Mr. August, Elizabeth and Nick, sitting at a large antique

dining room table.

Nick is eating a sandwich, an untouched glass of milk in

front of him. Mr. August and Elizabeth watch him, expectantly.

Nick notices this.

Nick looks around the familiar room, struck by the absurdity

of the situation.

Nick smiles weakly at Elizabeth.

Nick realizes she's talking about death.

Mr. August slowly stands as Elizabeth follows Nick toward

the foyer.

IN THE FOYER

Nick edges toward the door followed by Elizabeth and Mr.

August.

Nick stops in his tracks, his hand on the doorknob.

Nick stares at her -- the sad truth of her statement sinking

in.

Nick looks down. He is alone. He has no one.

He looks into her eyes.

Elizabeth suddenly grabs his arm.

He stares at her, not knowing what to do. She holds his arm

tightly for a moment, then lets go.

She steps back from Nick, against her grandfather.

Nick stares at Elizabeth.

And he hurries out the door into the night.

INT. BETH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Beth is sitting up in bed, Sid leaning back against her, her

arms wrapped around him.

They both lie perfectly still. A flicker of sadness crosses

Beth's face.

Beth leans him back, cradling him in her arms. She stares at

him, a quizzical expression on her face.

Beth ponders this for a moment.

Sid runs his hands over her body.

Beth looks to Sid. He's staring off.

A flicker of loss crosses his face.

Beth stares at him, uncertainly. He leans up and gently traces

circles on Beth's skin.

Beth looks to him, puzzled.

He holds Beth tightly.

He moves away from Beth.

Beth pulls Sid close, bringing him into her.

She holds him tightly.

Sid arches away from her.

Beth pulls Sid back to her.

They hold each other tightly.

INT./EXT. NICK'S SEDAN - NIGHT

Nick looks like hell -- his eyes red, his hair a mess. The

nearly empty scotch bottle is on the dashboard.

The car windows are open, the roar of the wind competing

with the blasting radio.

Nick suddenly jerks the wheel over.

EXT. ABANDONED REST STOP - CONTINUOUS

The sedan screeches off the highway into the abandoned rest

area.

It stops facing a battered phone booth -- the engine turns

off but the headlines stay shining on the phone booth.

IN THE SEDAN

Nick turns off the radio. It is suddenly very quiet -- only

the occasional lonely DRONE OF A TRUCK passing on the highway.

He takes a deep breath.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - MOMENTS LATER

Nick is standing in the phone booth, harshly lit by his

headlights.

Nick dials with drunken concentration.

He hangs up. He hits himself in the head in angry disbelief.

He hurriedly dials zero and listens for a moment, desperately

summoning up all his salesman charm.

Nick listens impatiently.

Nick listens, shaking his head emphatically.

Nick listens. Suddenly all his energy drains away.

He hurls the receiver at the phone.

Nick doubles over, retching, clutching the side of the booth.

FADE IN:

INT. BETH'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Sid is sprawled out over the bed, sleeping, Beth nestled

against him. She stirs and cuddles closer.

Suddenly she realizes it's not Nick. She pulls away,

orientating herself. She quickly scoots out of bed and

hurriedly pulls on a pair of jeans.

The alarm clock CLANGS.

Beth looks about for the alarm. She tensely scatters some

boxes. She dumps one, finds the alarm and shuts it off. She

stares at the clock and drops it into a box.

Beth cringes slightly and turns to face Sid.

SID AND BETH

She looks around the room littered with boxes and piles of

clothes.

Sid gets out of bed, wrapping the sheet around himself. Beth

stares at the room. She suddenly trembles. She steadies

herself on the bed table.

Beth avoids his eyes, glancing around the room.

She glances away from Sid toward the bed.

She turns away from Sid and the bed. Sid moves toward her.

Beth summons up all the composure she can manage.

She goes out the bedroom door. Sid stares after her.

EXT. ABANDONED REST STOP - MORNING

Nick's sedan is parked in the same place as the night before.

A YOUNG MAN with long hair ROARS into the rest stop on a

Harley-Davidson, his life's possession strapped on the back.

He stops the bike between Nick's car and the phonebooth,

idling the engine, loudly. He looks to the phonebooth, the

receiver dangling. He turns to Nick's sedan.

NICK

Awakened by the ROAR, Nick has wearily leaned his head out

the window.

Nick stares at the young man.

Drained, Nick rests his head on the steering wheel.

OFFSCREEN, the motorcycle starts up and zooms away. A silence

falls over the rest stop.

Without raising his head from the steering wheel, Nick starts

the car.

INT. BETH'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Sid is making the bed.

Sid pulls up the blanket and fluffs the pillows.

INT. BETH'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

The cupboards are all open and bare. A half dozen boxes are

neatly stacked. Beth is sitting on the floor packing the

final dishes. Carol holds out a mug of coffee.

Beth stands and takes the coffee.

Beth sips her coffee, gazing out the kitchen window.

BETH'S POV

The backyard. In the light of day it's lost its magical

quality. The grass needs cutting and is marred by brown

patches. The swingset looks pathetically rusted and

dilapidated.

CLOSE-UP: BETH

Her face clouds over.

BETH AND CAROL

Carol is staring at Beth staring out at the backyard.

She turns to Carol.

She looks around the room in disgust.

Beth looks at the semi-packed boxes.

EXT. BETH'S FRONT LAWN - DAY

Boxes full of a motley collection of knickknacks, housewares,

and crummy appliances are spread out on the lawn.

In the BACKGROUND a couple of M.T.V. influenced teens are

checking out the knickknacks and goofing on them.

MRS. DOTSON, a woman in her late forties wearing a NURSE'S

UNIFORM is poking through the odds and ends.

Beth and Carol hovering near her.

Mrs. Dotson picks up the coffee maker, examines it, and puts

it down. She picks up the blender, examines it, and puts it

down.

Beth realizes why she's selling all her stuff -- it's too

familiar.

Mrs. Dotson searches Beth's face with a kind gaze. Beth smiles

nervously.

INT/EXT. NICK'S SEDAN

Nick's smoking, looking haggard. Between drags, he anxiously

taps a tempo on the steering wheel with his cigarette holding

hand.

NICK'S POV

The highway and the desert stretch out before him, the heat

waves of late afternoon shimmering above the blacktop.

In the distance, the giant teepee souvenir shop rises out of

the horizon like a mirage.

NICK

An idea strikes him and his lips tighten into a small

determined smile.

INT. TEEPEE GIFT SHOP - AFTERNOON

A couple of vacationing families and a busload of elderly

sightseers poke through the stunning assortment of Native

American souvenirs.

Nick stands at the counter talking to a plump elderly NAVAJO

WOMAN.

A little boy stares at the disheveled Nick. His mother hurries

him away.

He points past her.

THEIR POV

A huge beautifully feathered ceremonial headdress.

NICK AND THE NAVAJO WOMAN

EXT. FRONT LAWN - LATE AFTERNOON

Beth and Mrs. Dotson are standing beside the now empty

blankets.

In the BACKGROUND, Sid and Carol are packing boxes into Mrs.

Dotson's car.

Mrs. Dotson has begun to fill out a check.

Mrs. Dotson looks at her. They stare into each other's eyes.

Mrs. Dotson hands Beth the check. Beth sticks it in her back

pocket. After an awkward moment she extends her hand.

Mrs. Dotson takes her hand. Sid and Carol walk up to them.

Mrs. Dotson lets go of Beth's hand. They turn to Sid and

Carol.

Carol starts to protest and then checks herself for Beth's

sake.

He heads into the house. Beth stares after him. Mrs. Dotson

touches her shoulder, lightly, getting her attention.

She looks to Carol.

Mrs. Dotson walks off toward her car.

Beth laughs, distractedly.

Beth suddenly embraces Carol.

They look at each other and start to laugh. Their laughter

builds -- a release of the strain of the last two days.

INT. NICK'S SEDAN - INTERSTATE - DAY

Nick's driving fast, completely focused on the road ahead,

the wind ROARING through the open windows.

A cheap plastic Indian headdress with brightly colored

synthetic feathers is perched on his head.

INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Sid's finished painting -- the room gleams. He pulls a

dropcloth off the bureau, then another one off of Beth's two

packed suitcases.

Sid turns and looks, smiling.

SID'S POV

Beth is standing in the doorway, a weariness having settled

over her. She steps into the room.

BETH AND SID

He puts his arms around her.

Holding her tightly, Sid runs his fingers down her spine.

She kisses him. They kiss, long and hard. Abruptly, she breaks

the embrace and moves away from him.

She shivers.

She walks away from Sid, out of the bedroom.

INT. BETH'S BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Beth gulps down aspirin. She stares at herself in the mirror,

wearily searching.

IN THE MIRROR

Sid appears in the doorway, his reflection small next to the

reflection of her face.

ANGLE TO INCLUDE SID AND BETH

Beth is struck by a certainty that she's never lost anyone

she's loved because she's never really loved anyone.

Sid hesitates, then speaks his heart.

She steps forward and kisses him. She steps back.

She walks out of the bathroom. Sid and THE CAMERA FOLLOW as

she hurries though the living room toward the bedroom.

IN THE LIVING ROOM

She disappears down the hall to the bedroom.

IN THE BEDROOM

Beth picks up her suitcases. Sid steps into the doorway.

She heads to the bedroom door.

Beth stops.

She walks past him into the hallway. Sid and THE CAMERA

FOLLOW.

IN THE LIVING ROOM

She stops and puts down the suitcases.

He goes to her.

She steps back, shaking her head.

Beth loses control, upset with herself for having mixed

emotions, upset with her life, and upset he's making this

more difficult.

Beth can't bear the risk of opening her soul to believe him --

and she can't bear to hear the outpouring of his soul without

believing him. So she ends it.

She picks up her suitcases and heads for the door.

He grabs her arms and spins her to face him.

She stares at him, breathing deeply, gathering herself. He

lets go of her arms and steps back.

They stare at each other.

He looks away from her. She stares at his back.

She steps toward the door.

She stops.

She opens the door.

She goes out the door. Sid goes to the door.

EXT. THE FRONT LAWN - CONTINUOUS

Beth makes her way to her car. Sid stands in the doorway,

watching.

She turns and faces him.

Beth tosses her suitcases in the backseat. She gets into the

car and starts the engine.

Sid stands, willing her to stop the car.

Beth pulls out to the end of the driveway.

INT. BETH'S PINTO

She looks up at the rearview mirror.

BETH'S POV

Sid is framed in the doorway of her old home, waiting,

trusting that she can't leave, that they are destined.

BETH

Her eyes well with tears. Her face sets with resolve.

THE HOUSE AND DRIVEWAY

The car pulls out and disappears down the road. Sid stands

in the doorway for a long moment. He steps back into the

house and shuts the door.

INT. NICK'S CAR - DUSK

Nick is driving, the cheap headdress still perched on his

head. Crumpled empty coffee cups are scattered about the

front seat. He reaches up and turns the rearview mirror.

REARVIEW MIRROR

Nick's face stares back at him. It's not a pretty sight.

NICK

Nick reaches into the back seat, fishes and comes up with

his necktie. He slips the still-knotted necktie over his

headdress and tightens it around his neck.

Nick looks back to the road and suddenly swerves off an exit

ramp. The CAMERA LINGERS on the Exit Sign -- "Enfield AZ.".

INT. KITCHEN - DUSK

Sid silently goes through the motions of pulling the masking

tape from around the window sills of the freshly painted

room, his face a stony mask.

EXT. BETH'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Nick's car screeches to a stop in front of the house. He

leaps out of the car and runs toward the front door.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The front door flings open. Nick charges into the room.

Sid steps through the swinging door into the living room.

Nick freezes.

Then Nick, remembering the headdress, rips it off his head

and furiously tears it apart -- scattering a flurry of plastic

feathers. He hurls what's left of it across the room.

Nick runs out the front door.

EXT. NICK'S FRONT LAWN - CONTINUOUS

Nick runs out into his lawn.

The CAMERA FOLLOWING he races up to Carol's front door and

leans on the doorbell -- a loud tight buzzing.

He pounds on the door, then stops, gasping for breath. No

one's home. He turns, leaning against the door for support,

staring out at tract house neighborhood.

Suddenly he bolts for his car.

Nick yanks his car door open and disappears into it. In a

second he emerges with the bottle of scotch.

It's empty. He eyes it for a moment then hurls it as far as

he can down the street -- it shatters explosively.

He races to his front door and stops dead in his tracks at

the open doorway.

INT. NICK'S LIVING ROOM

Sid has covered the floor and remaining furniture with drop

cloths and is applying even strokes to the ceiling with a

long handled roller.

Nick steps in and stares at Sid and his own nearly empty

drop-cloth covered home.

Sid stares at him.

Nick advances on Sid.

They're face to face in a stand-off.

He puts the long handled roller right in Nick's face.

Nick ponders this logic, Sid's size, and the roller in his

face.

Nick wanders around the nearly empty room, then, after a

beat...

...he pulls a dropcloth off an object in the corner, revealing

the television.

They both stare at the television.

The sweep of HEADLIGHTS turning into the driveway cross their

faces. They both race to the door.

EXT. FRONT LAWN - CONTINUOUS

Carol gets out of her car. Nick hurries toward her.

He turns and walks back into the house.

He races after Sid.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Sid is painting the ceiling. Nick bursts through the door.

Nick stares at her -- knowing what she says is true.

Nick stares at her.

He exhales loudly and holds his head in his hands.

Nick takes a deep breath.

Sid ignores him.

Sid looks at him.

Nick throws his arms in the air and storms up to Carol's

face.

Carol doesn't flinch. He steps back.

He turns on Sid.

He stares at Sid.

Nick stares at Sid, waiting.

Sid looks to Carol, then around the drop cloth covered room.

Nick and Sid both look to Carol.

Sid races out the door.

Nick tosses a self-satisfied smile at Carol and walks past

her to the door.

SOUND

Sid's truck engine roars to life.

NICK'S POV

Sid peels out, driving up onto the lawn past Nick and Carol's

cars, out onto the street and out of sight.

THE DOORWAY

Carol steps into the doorway beside Nick.

Nick looks back into the room.

Carol follows him into the room. Nick slumps on the sofa,

staring at the blank t.v.

A MAN and a WOMAN, both slightly portly Mexican-Americans in

their late forties, wearing their Sunday best, step over the

threshold and kiss.

The man is carrying the woman cradled in his arms.

The four stare at each other in awkward silence, the woman

still cradled in the man's arms.

The man puts her down on her feet.

Nick and Carol look to each other, at a loss. Nick looks

back to the couple.

Carol throws him a look.

He holds out his hand to shake. After an instant of awkward

hesitation they all shake hands with too much enthusiasm.

They finish the handshakes -- there's an awkward pause.

He waits, half expecting this statement to be challenged. It

isn't.

They all look at the t.v.

There's an awkward pause.

Nick and Carol lift the t.v.

They move toward the front door, Carol going backwards.

Nick looks to make eye contact with Carol. He can't. She's

looking back over her shoulder for obstacles. He smiles and

glances toward the couple.

Nick and Carol go out the door, lugging the t.v.

The man and woman look at each other. They look around the

room.

She stares out the front door.

She looks back to him. He's staring at the ceiling.

EXT. THE LAWN - CONTINUOUS

They're lugging the t.v. across to Carol's -- Carol backing

up and Nick going forward. They arrive at the front door.

Nick takes most of the weight of the t.v., while Carol fumbles

with her key into her front door lock with her free hand.

Carol gets the door open.

Carol backs into the house, leading the way.

INT. CAROL'S FOYER - CONTINUOUS

They lug the t.v. toward the living room.

They step into the living room.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Carol leads them to a corner.

They gingerly put the t.v. down.

Nick slumps down onto the sofa. Carol watches him, puzzled.

He smiles at the memory.

Nick looks to Carol. She stares at him.

Carol sits beside him.

Nick looks to Carol, puzzled.

She stares at Nick. He avoids her stare. She takes his face

in her hand and makes him look at her.

Nick stares in her eyes.

She lets go of his face.

EXT. SID'S TRUCK - NIGHT

Through the windshield we see Sid driving slowly, looking

out at motel parking lots. Their neon signs reflect in the

windshield.

EXT. STRIP OFF THE HIGHWAY

Gas stations, fast food joints and motels.

Sid and his truck pull away from the strip and up onto the

on ramp.

EXT. HIGHWAY - CONTINUOUS

Sid and his truck pull onto the highway.

CREDITS ROLL

As Sid's taillights disappear down the barren highway.

