INT.  HALLWAY, CITY HALL BUILDING - DAY

Cardenas walks down the corridor with McCurdy.

They reach a door and stop.

McCurdy enters the room.  Cardenas thinks for a moment, then

follows.

INT.  CARDENAS' OFFICE - DAY

Spacious and sparsely furnished.  The walls are empty.  No

commendations, plaques or photographs to add prestige to the

office.  Cardenas steps into the room and looks at McCurdy who

is already seated next to Reese and Troxell.

A trace of a grin shows on Cardenas' face.  He walks over to

the window and stares outside.  Reese, Troxell and McCurdy wait

as he thinks.  A beat.  Cardenas turns back to the room.

Cardenas stands and walks to a DART BOARD on the wall.  He

gathers the DARTS, moves back and tosses one.

Cardenas throws another dart at the board.

EXT.  CEMETERY - MORNING

Gray clouds hang over head.  A light drizzle falls.  A GROUP of

MOURNERS hold umbrellas as they stand around the grave.

In the b.g. the PRESS is visible, held back my private SECURITY

GUARDS.

A WOMAN dressed in BLACK stands in the front of the MOUNERS,

her face hidden behind a hat and veil.  RAYMOND SATTLER, a

tall, distinguished-looking man in his sixties stands beside

her.  He supports his weight with the aid of a CANE.  The

service concludes.  Sattler along with several other PEOPLE

offer her their condolences.  Joanne Braslow is there.  She

does not go over to Rebecca.

CARDENAS AND REESE stand off to the side by a large oak tree.

Cardenas watches and waits.  He steps forward as Sattler leads

the woman by.

The Woman stops.  Her back is to Cardenas.

REBECCA LAWSON removes her hat and veil and slowly turns

around.  She is in her late twenties.  A deep pain fills her

face -- controlled, but evident.  Her eyes are tired -- heavy

from crying -- but no tears show now.  This is a woman whose

grief is private and not displayed for others.  Although

emotionally drained she is still stunningly beautiful.  So

beautiful that even Cardenas' usually cool demeanor cannot hide

how impressed he is.

Cardenas and Rebecca lock eyes.  Rebecca stares at him

genuinely shocked by his accusation.  Cardenas nods and walks

away.  In the b.g. we see Joanne staring at Rebecca with

hostility.

INT.  HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Large and homey.  A fire roars in the fireplace.  FRANK DULANEY

sits on his couch as he goes over some PAPERWORK.  He is mid-

thirties, powerful, self-assured.

SHARON DULANEY enters.  She is an attractive woman in her early

thirties.  She kisses him on the cheek then pushes his

PAPERWORK aside and sits down on his lap.

She kisses him -- soft, gentle kisses.  Dulaney puts his arms

around her and kisses her harder.

The moment is passing by.  A trace of frustration shows on

Dulaney's face -- this is obviously not a new occurrence.

The moment is gone.  Dulaney forces an understanding smile.  He

looks towards the door and sees his EIGHT YEAR OLD SON,

MICHAEL.

Michael walks over to this parents.

The PHONE RINGS.  Dulaney answers it.

Dulaney grins.  Sharon is fighting the temptation to laugh.

He makes a funny face at Michael who LAUGHS and makes one back.

Dulaney grabs him and starts TICKLING him.  Michael SCREAMS

with LAUGHTER as he tries to tickle him back.  Dulaney then

starts TICKLING SHARON -- Michael helps him.  Sharon ROARS with

LAUGHTER and falls to the floor.  The three of them roll around

LAUGHING hysterically.

INT.  SATTLER'S OFFICE - MORNING

Sattler sits on a couch sipping a cup of coffee.  Dulaney sits

across from him.

Dulaney thinks about it for a moment.

Dulaney stands and walks towards the door.

Dulaney stops at the door and looks back.

INT.  CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Rebecca is seated at the end of the conference table smoking a

CIGARETTE.  Sunlight flows through a window and highlights her

hair.  She is dressed in a fashionable business suit that

clings to every curve of her body.

Dulaney enters the room.  When he sees her he can't help but

stare.  Rebecca notes his gaze.

She raises the cigarette to her lips.  Dulaney notices despite

her outward composure her hand is shaking.

Rebecca appears hurt by the question.

Dulaney doesn't answer.  He studies her -- his eyes probing

hers.

Rebecca's anxiety begins to surface.  She feigns a weak smile.

She takes a long drag of her cigarette before answering.  She

looks at Dulaney.  Displaying emotions is not something that

comes easily.  Tears well up in her eyes.

A single tear streams down her check.  She knows what he wants

to hear her say -- and she resents having to say it.

INT.  HALLWAY, D.A.'S OFFICE - DAY

Cardenas walks down the hall, sipping a cup of coffee.  Troxell

walks towards him excitedly.  They walk together.

Troxell points to an Office.  Through the glass partition we

can see a MAN sitting at a table.  ALAN PALEY is a well-groomed

man in his thirties who makes every effort to look good.

Cardenas and Troxell enters the room.  Cardenas shakes hands

with Paley and listens with great interest as he starts to

talk.

INT.  DULANEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dulaney and Sharon are in bed.  Dulaney reads some PAPERS.

Sharon finishes reading her MAGAZINE.  She puts it on the

nightstand and looks at Dulaney.

Dulaney's description seems to bother her.

Sharon hits him on the arm playfully.

Dulaney grins at her choice of words.

Dulaney rolls over, gathering her up in his arms.

He reaches over to the nightstand and turns off the LIGHTS.

EXT.  CITY HALL BUILDING MORNING

As Dulaney and Rebecca walks up the steps they are engulfed by

a CROWD of REPORTERS.  Dulaney puts his arm around Rebecca and

ushers her through the crowd.

INT.  CARDENAS' OFFICE - MORNING

Dulaney and Rebecca sit on one side of a table.  Reese stands.

Cardenas sits at his desk.

Dulaney's anger shows.  He stands.

A beat.  Dulaney and Cardenas lock eyes.  Cardenas shrugs his

shoulders.

Dulaney motions for Rebecca to get up.  She stands and they

walk to the door.  Reese looks at Cardenas.  Cardenas nods.

Rebecca is stunned -- frightened.  She looks at Dulaney in

disbelief.  Dulaney looks at Cardenas angrily.  Reese removes

his handcuffs as he moves towards Rebecca.

Reese grabs Rebecca by the arm and leads her to the door.  She

looks back at Frank, her face filled with fear -- her eyes

welling with tears.

Reese ushers her through the door.  A beat.  Dulaney and

Cardenas are left alone.  Cardenas starts fishing through a can

of NUTS, carefully extracting the cashews.  Dulaney continues

to stand.

Cardenas looks at Dulaney wryly.  He knows that Dulaney is

trying to discover his game plan.  Cardenas looks into his can

of nuts and fishes for another cashew.

Cardenas doesn't appreciate Dulaney mentioning his real name.

Dulaney gets up slowly and leaves.

INT.  CITY JAIL, BOOKING COUNTER - AFTERNOON

Dulaney waits at the counter.  A barred door slides open and

Rebecca is led out by a WOMAN JAILER.  Even in these

surroundings she maintains her composure.  She walks to the

counter and waits silently.

EXT.  CITY HALL BUILDING - AFTERNOON

As Dulaney and Rebecca leave they are once again encircled by

REPORTERS, screaming questions, asking them to verify Rebecca's

arrest.  Dulaney plows through the crowd with Rebecca in tow.

EXT.  RIVER - AFTERNOON

Gray clouds hang overhead, threatening rain.  Tall birch trees

line the river, the color of their leaves hinting that autumn

is approaching.  Dulaney and Rebecca walk along a jogging path

cut along the bank.

She stops walking and stares out over the River.

As Rebecca speaks, Dulaney seems captivated.

Dulaney appears moved by the passion of her words -- but he's

uncomfortable by it and quickly pushes it aside.

Rebecca thinks for a moment.

Dulaney appears lost in her words.  This isn't lost on Rebecca.

She walks off.  Dulaney stares after her intrigued.

INT.  DULANEY'S HOUSE, DINING ROOM - EVENING

A light rain falls outside.  Dulaney picks at his food.  He

stares out the window.  He seems oblivious to the conversation

between Sharon and Michael.

Sharon tries to suppress a grin.

Sharon looks at Dulaney.  He is still staring out the window,

deep in thought.

INT.  DEN - EVENING

Dulaney is at his desk, looking at PHOTOGRAPHS of Marsh and the

bedroom.  Sharon enters.

INT.  MICHAEL'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Michael lies on his bed, doing his homework.  The door opens

and Dulaney enters and sits beside him.

Michael looks at Dulaney somewhat confused.  Dulaney tries to

explain it another way.

Dulaney grins.

Dulaney leans over and hugs Michael.

INT.  DULANEY'S OFFICE - MORNING

CHARLIE BIGGS is a tall, wiry black man.  Street-wise, but

basically good humored.  He is tossing a NERF BALL through a

basketball hoop mounted on the wall as Dulaney enters.

Dulaney grins in spite of himself.

Dulaney's SECRETARY'S VOICE crackles over the intercom.

Dulaney picks up the phone.

Dulaney hangs up.  Biggs is staring at him with a grin.

Biggs tosses the ball to Dulaney, then raises his hands

indicating he is backing off.  He leaves.  Dulaney shoots from

his desk.  SWOOSH!

INT.  RESTAURANT - DAY

Dimly lit.  Dark wood and leather.  Dulaney sits at a table

with Rebecca.  She removes a CIGARETTE and holds it, waiting

for Dulaney to light it.  Dulaney fumbles through his pockets

and removes a book of MATCHES.  He lights one.  Rebecca doesn't

lean forward to meet him.  He must go to her.  She looks into

his eyes as she cups her hand over his.  A beat.  She lights

the cigarette and takes a drag, then arches her neck back and

blows a stream of smoke towards the ceiling.  SHE DOES NOT BLOW

OUT THE MATCH OR REMOVE HER HAND FROM DULANEY'S.  She watches

him as it burns down towards his fingers.  After a long moment

she leans in and sensually blows out the match and releases his

hand.

A FOURSOME a few tables away are staring at her.  Rebecca sees

them.

A COUPLE in a booth are looking at Rebecca and whispering.

Rebecca and Dulaney notice them.

Rebecca stands up.  She doesn't answer.  She just walks off.

EXT.  REBECCA'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Dulaney pulls up in his car behind Rebecca's.  They get out.

Dulaney follows her as she walks to the door.

Dulaney stops.

Rebecca stops and turns towards him.

Rebecca stares at him for a moment, then looks down the street

to her left and back to her right, then back at Dulaney.

She walks to her front door and opens it.  She enters, leaving

the door open.  Dulaney waits for a moment, then follows.

INT.  REBECCA'S, LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Dulaney enters.  Rebecca is standing in the middle of the room.

Her back is to Dulaney, but she knows he is there.  Dulaney

looks around the room.  He stares at a group of PHOTOGRAPHS on

the wall.  On the other WALL is a GIANT TELEVISION SCREEN.

DULANEY'S POV - OF THE WALL

filled with EROTIC PAINTINGS AND PHOTOGRAPHS -- sensual but not

vulgar.

Rebecca walks over and stands very close to him as he studies

the artwork.

Rebecca looks up to the top of a high cabinet.  Sitting on top

of the cabinet is a WHITE PERSIAN CAT.

She stands on her tip toes as she reaches up.  Dulaney watches

her -- the arch of her back -- the hem of her skirt rising up

her legs.  She lowers the cat down and walks to a chair and

sits down.  The slit of her dress opens revealing her thighs.

Dulaney's eyes trace along them.  Rebecca notes his gaze.

Dulaney looks up quickly.

The fact that he doesn't protest confirms that she is right.

She runs her finger lightly along her thighs.

Dulaney walks to the window and stares out.  Rebecca seems

amused.  She puts the cat down and walks over to him.

He slowly turns towards her.

Dulaney stares at her for a moment, then places his briefcase

on the table and opens it.

INT.  RESTAURANT - CLOSE ON STRAWBERRIES - NIGHT

A fork digs into a large strawberry.  PULL BACK as we follow

the strawberry into Sharon's mouth.

Dulaney sits across from Sharon.  His eyes are on the

strawberries.  His mind is someplace else -- and it isn't hard

to guess where.

Dulaney looks up slowly.  It is not so much that he has heard

the question -- it is more that he is aware that Sharon has

stopped talking.  A beat.  Sharon isn't sure he has heard her.

He stands and leaves the table.

INT.  RESTAURANT, HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dulaney walks to a PAY PHONE near the bathrooms.  He thinks for

a moment, then dials a number.  Rebecca answers.

EXT.  CABIN, KLAMATH LAKE - AFTERNOON

An old wood cabin set on the shore of the lake.  Dulaney and

Rebecca get out of the car and walk towards it.

Her mind drifts away for a moment, locked on some distant

memory.

EXT.  LAKE, FURTHER - DUSK

Dulaney and Rebecca walk along the shore.  A soft wind blows

through her hair.

She walks off.

EXT.  CABIN - DUSK

Dulaney and Rebecca sit on an old porch swing.

Dulaney stares at her -- she looks beautiful in the warm light

of the setting sun.  Their eyes meet.  He starts to lean in

towards her -- then stops.  He gets up and walks away.

EXT.  REBECCA'S HOUSE - EVENING

Rebecca's car pulls up in front.  Dulaney gets out.

Rebecca drives to the rear of the building.  Dulaney walks to

the door.  He lifts the FLOWER POT -- removes a KEY -- opens

the door and goes inside.

ANGLE - DOWN THE STREET

Detective Reese is parked in his car, watching the house.  He

glances at his watch, then makes a note in his note pad.

INT.  REBECCA'S LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Rebecca walks over to the STEREO and turns on the CASSETTE

PLAYER.  The room fills with soft, sexy MUSIC.  Dulaney stands

in the middle of the room -- his eyes following her every move.

Before Dulaney can start to protest she continues.  She slowly

walks behind him.  Dulaney stares straight ahead.

Her words strip his thoughts bare.  He is vulnerable.

Dulaney starts for the door.  Rebecca's cool exterior fades,

giving way to her vulnerable side.

Dulaney turns back towards her.  A beat.  He thinks for a

moment, then walks back into the room.  Rebecca smiles warmly,

invitingly.

She disappears down the hall.  Dulaney stands were he is,

wondering what he is doing there.  He walks over to the BAR and

pours a SCOTCH.  He looks down the hall.

HIS POV - REBECCA'S BEDROOM

The bedroom door is open.  The room is DARK -- Lit only by the

moon.  Rebecca slowly pulls her sweater off over her head.

MOONLIGHT washes over her body, SILHOUETTING her.  She runs her

hands lightly over her stomach -- working her way up to her

round, full breasts.  She stops for a moment -- and we sense

she knows Dulaney is watching her.

Dulaney stares at her -- mesmerized.  He knows he should turn

away, but he cannot control the urge that moves him to look.

One by one Rebecca unsnaps the buttons of her jeans, revealing

her sheer, white panties.  She bends forward slightly and

slowly peels the jeans down to her ankles -- then steps out of

them.

We can see the desire on Dulaney's face.  He looks away.  The

conflict inside him grows.  He looks back.

Rebecca walks into the hall.  She is barefoot --  wearing a

long, slinky dress -- her eyes catch Dulaney's.  If she wasn't

aware he was watching her before -- she is now.  It doesn't

seem to bother her.  She moves towards him slowly -- her eyes

inviting his.

Dulaney moves towards her.  They meet in the middle of the

room.  She waits -- he moves closer -- so close that he can

smell her.  She cranes her neck back, subtly tempting him to

bring his lips to hers.  The longing overcomes him.  He kisses

her lightly -- the kiss lingers for a moment, then she grabs

him forcefully by the hair, arching his head back.  She bites

his lip.

Dulaney ignores her.  He tries to kiss her again.  She turns

her head away.

She walks down the hall into the bedroom and closes the door.

Dulaney follows.  He tries the door -- it's locked.  He starts

to knock -- stops -- turns and walks back into the living room.

He starts to leave -- stops.  He looks at the bedroom door.

His passion builds -- his hunger for her devours him.  He moves

quickly down the hall -- eyes filled with determination.  He

breaks the door open with his shoulder.

Rebecca is standing in the center of the room -- as if waiting

for him.  He moves to her.  She can see the fire in his eyes.

He takes her in his arms -- kisses her neck feverishly --

feeding his craving for her.

He is lost within her now and doesn't hear her.  She pulls his

hair, jerking his head back.  Her eyes command him to follow

her demand.

Something in him snaps -- a new door opens.  He pushes her back

onto the DRESSING CABINET.  He kisses her, running his hand up

her thighs, hiking up her dress.  She wraps her legs around his

waist.  They move along the cabinet -- knocking jars and

bottles to the floor.  He lifts her -- carries her to the bed -

- lays her down and rips her dress from her body.  Their

passion is unleased.  They grope and claw for one another

hungrily.  She pulls his shirt off and bites him on the

shoulder.  His face tenses from the pain, but he MOANS with

pleasure.

INT.  DULANEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dark.  Sharon is asleep.  The door opens and Dulaney enters

quietly.  He walks towards the bathroom.

INT.  DULANEY'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Dulaney splashes a handful of water across his face.  He

unbuttons his shirt and takes it off -- wincing as he does.  He

turns his back to the mirror.  Several deep FINGERNAIL SCRAPES

are dug into his back.  He looks at himself in the mirror.

INT.  HALLWAY, LAW OFFICES - MORNING

Dulaney and Biggs walk down the hall to a water cooler.  Biggs

pours himself a glass.

Sattler walks over with another MAN.  He ignores Biggs.

Biggs LAUGHS and walks off.  Sattler glares at him.  Dulaney

smirks.

EXT.  RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

Rows of new Town Houses line the street.  Dulaney drives up and

walks towards the front door of one of them.  He KNOCKS.

JOANNE BRASLOW answers.  She stares at Dulaney innocently.

INT.  JOANNE'S TOWN HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Sparsely decorated.  Very trendy.  High tech furniture and

designer lights.  Joanne sits on the couch -- Dulaney on one of

the chairs.  There is COFFEE on the table.

Joanne stops as emotion fills her.  Her eyes well with tears.

Dulaney is shocked by this.

Dulaney looks like he's been kicked in the stomach.

A beat.  Dulaney looks at her slowly.

He gets up and walks to the door.  Joanne stands and stares

after him with a trace of a grin.

INT.  REBECCA'S HOUSE - DAY

Rebecca opens the front door and Dulaney barges into the room.

Dulaney is confused, struggling to decide if he believes her.

INT.  LAUNDRY ROOM, DULANEY HOUSE - DAY

Sharon is getting a load of washing ready.  She picks up one of

Dulaney's tee shirts and notices several thin stripes of BLOOD

near the shoulder.

INT.  DULANEY'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY

RAIN falls.  Dulaney enters the room to find Michael on the

PHONE.  Dulaney appears nervous -- anxious.

Michael hangs up and leaves the room.  Dulaney stares at the

phone -- struggling against himself.  He picks it up and dials.

Dulaney slams down the phone.  He checks his watch.

INT.  BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dulaney wears another tee shirt as he sleeps.  Sharon is awake,

staring up at the ceiling.  A beat.  She rolls over and

carefully lifts up Dulaney's tee shirt.  She sees the scratches

on his back.  She does not wake him.  She just lays there, deep

in thought.

INT.  HALLWAY, COURTHOUSE - MORNING

Rebecca walks down the hall.  In the b.g. we see Dulaney

walking quickly to join her.

INT.  COURTROOM - MORNING

The gallery is crowded with REPORTERS and SPECTATORS.  Dulaney

sits beside Rebecca at the defense table.  Cardenas stands

before the jury.

Dulaney and Cardenas are seated at their respective tables.

Rebecca sits beside Dulaney.  She is wearing a beautiful, well

tailored dress.  She looks beautiful and has surprisingly made

no attempt to down-play her looks.

JUDGE BURNHAM, a confident BLACK MAN in his fifties sits behind

the bench.  He is strong-willed -- tough but fair.  There is a

rough edge to him from his childhood on the streets.

Dulaney and Cardenas both nod.

Cardenas stands and walks towards the JURY.

Cardenas walks back to the prosecution table and sits down.

Dulaney stands up and approaches the jury.

INT.  COURTROOM - LATER - DAY

McCurdy is on the witness stand.  Cardenas stands before him.

Cardenas holds up a bottle of NASAL SPRAY in a PLASTIC BAG.  He

brings it over to McCurdy.

Rebecca looks at Dulaney for his opinion of McCurdy's

testimony.  Dulaney gives her a reassuring glance before he

stands up and approaches McCurdy.

INT.  COURTROOM - LATER - DAY

Cardenas stands before DOCTOR TRAMMEL, a thin, pasty-faced man

in his fifties.

Cardenas walks back to his seat, signaling his examination of

the witness is over.  Dulaney stands.

INT.  COURTROOM - LATER - DAY

Joanne Braslow is on the stand.  She is wearing a smart

business suit and large-framed glasses.  Her hair is pulled

back tight.  Cardenas stands before her.

There is an audible BUZZ from the crowd.  For the first time

Rebecca's confident exterior seems to fade and is replaced with

genuine concern.

Cardenas sits down.  Dulaney gets up slowly and walks towards

Joanne.

THE JURY waits anxiously for her answer.

Joanne fidgets in his chair as she thinks.  She appears

confused.

Cardenas leans back in his seat frustrated.  Rebecca breathes a

sigh of relief.

INT.  UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - LATE AFTERNOON

Quiet and desolate -- most of the city employees have left for

the day.  Dulaney walks towards the back of the lot with

Rebecca.

They reach Rebecca's car.

Rebecca presses against him, raising her knee gently into his

groin -- as she kisses him passionately.  Dulaney is lost in

her kiss for a moment, then breaks it off and looks around.

Rebecca smiles -- takes off her shoes and stands on the hood of

her car.  She takes one of the shoes and hits the PARKING LOT

OVERHEAD LIGHT FIXTURE.  The BULB breaks sending the area in

darkness.

She steps down and kisses him again.  For a moment he tries to

resist.

His desire fills him.  He pushes her back onto the hood of her

car, hiking up her dress with his hands, as she reaches down

and unbuttons his pants.

INT.  REBECCA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The room is dimly lit.  Dulaney is in bed.  He appears to be

deep in thought.  Rebecca enters wearing a sheer, silk bathrobe

and carrying a tea service on a tray.  He places it on the bed

and sits beside him.

The question hurts Rebecca -- it shows on her face.  She looks

away from him.  A beat.  Dulaney thinks.  He feels bad for

asking such a question.

He takes her hand.  She slowly looks at him and smiles.  She

points to the tea service.

She lifts a PLASTIC BOTTLE of HONEY and starts to pour it into

a cup.  She stops and smiles seductively at Dulaney, then parts

her bathrobe and slowly draws a liquid line with it along her

thigh.  She reaches out -- grabs him by the hair and gently

pulls him forward.  He kisses her knee and slowly runs his

tongue along her thigh, following the trail upwards.  She

arches her back -- closes her eyes -- breathes deeply from the

pleasure of his touch.

INT.  DULANEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dark.  The door opens -- light from the hall streaks into the

room.  Sharon is asleep.  Dulaney enters quietly.  He watches

her.  He looks over at the nightstand.

HIS POV

A PHOTOGRAPH of Dulaney and Sharon on vacation.  Dulaney is

carrying her on a beach.  He is wearing a LARGE SOMBRERO.  They

are both laughing.

Dulaney looks back at Sharon.  He is a man lost within himself.

He walks to the bathroom.  Sharon opens her eyes and stares at

him.

INT.  COURTROOM - MORNING

Court is in session.  Cardenas stands.

Doctor Paley stands and walks towards the witness stand.

CARDENAS AND PALEY - MOMENTS LATER

Paley has been sworn in.  Cardenas examines him.

WHISPERS from the crowd fill the room.

More GASPS from the crowd.  Rebecca's remains calm, but her

eyes glare at Paley hatefully.

Cardenas sits down.  Dulaney approaches Paley with a smile.

Paley thinks for a moment.  He is nervous.

Dulaney walks back to his desk and removes a TAPE PLAYER from a

cardboard box.

Dulaney takes out two pieces of PAPER and approaches the bench.

Judge Burnham studies the paper.

Dulaney walks back to his desk and presses the PLAY BUTTON.  We

HEAR a BEEP, then...

We HEAR a PHONE slam down.  Another BEEP.

Dulaney stops the machine.  He takes a dramatic pause, letting

the words on the tape sink in.

Cardenas is dismayed and tries to hide his frustration.

Dulaney approaches Paley who is now very nervous.

Dr. Paley's temper explodes.  He is a loose cannon.

INT.  REBECCA'S BEDROOM - EVENING

RAIN FALLS, streaking along the bedroom windows.  CANDLES light

the room.  Dulaney and Rebecca are on the bed.  She sits on top

of him, writhing back and forth -- lost in the rhythm of their

love making.

CLOSE ON DULANEY - LATER

He is asleep, laying on his back -- the sheets pulled up to his

waist.  LIGHTNING FLASHES outside -- a CLAP of THUNDER follows.

He stirs and wakes up.

HIS POV

Another FLASH OF LIGHTNING illuminates Rebecca, who is standing

over him in a sexy silk ROBE.  Dulaney starts to sit up but

something restrains him.  He is HANDCUFFED to the BRASS HEAD

BOARD.

She sits next to him -- looks at him fondly -- gently strokes

his face with her hand.

She slowly drags the tip of her finger up his stomach -- to his

chest.  Dulaney follows it with his eyes.  Rebecca picks up a

LARGE CANDLE on the nightstand and moves it slowly -- back and

forth over his chest.

He doesn't answer.  He doesn't have to.  She can see the fear

in his eyes.  She tilts the candle -- a stream of WAX pours out

on his chest.  Dulaney winces with pain, his body arching on

the bed, his hands straining against his restraints.

She smiles -- a wicked smile, then pours more wax, making a

thin trail of LITTLE BEADS that moves down his chest towards

his stomach.  Dulaney's face cringes.  He stares at her through

eyes filled with fear.

She continues to pour the wax in little BEADS, filling his

navel and working her way towards his groin.

Rebecca stares at him warmly -- fondly.

She lifts a bottle of white vinegar and holds it over his burn.

He tenses as she pours it on his chest.  -- then relaxes when

he realizes it's water.  He breathes a SIGH of relief.

She takes a sip from the bottle.

Her meaning isn't lost on Dulaney.  She watches him -- as if

studying him -- then slowly -- very slowly,  she pulls on the

belt of her ROBE.  The robe parts revealing the beauty of her

body.  She gently lowers herself on top of him -- pressing her

breasts against him.  Dulaney's breathing quickens in

excitement.  Rebecca moves her head to his chest -- kissing his

burns softly while her fingers caress lightly over his stomach.

She gradually moves her head down -- lower -- and lower.

CLOSE ON DULANEY

he stares at the ceiling -- his mind a maze of confusion.  Soon

the power of her touch fills him -- overpowering him.  His eyes

close.  The pain that only moments ago filled his body is

replaced with pleasure.

INT.  DULANEY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

It's late.  Dulaney enters quietly and heads for the stairs.  A

LIGHT comes on.  Sharon is sitting on the couch waiting.

Her voice startles Dulaney.

Dulaney enters the living room.

Sharon springs off the couch.

She starts to walks out of the room.  Dulaney grabs her by the

arm.

She swings around and slaps him across the face, then stares at

him angrily, her eyes filled with tears.

She walks out of the room, leaving Dulaney alone with his

thoughts.

INT.  COURTROOM - DAY

ESTER CRAWFORD is on the stand.  She is a BLACK WOMAN in her

thirties -- thin and tired-looking, although we get the

impression she once was pretty.  She is dressed in what is

obviously her Sunday dress.  Cardenas questions her.

Dulaney jots down a note.  Cardenas continues.

Cardenas sits down.  Dulaney approaches Ester with a smile.

Ester doesn't answer, but her eyes drift past Dulaney and focus

on Troxell.  Dulaney follows her stare.

Troxell and Cardenas squirm a little.

INT.  JUDGE BURNHAM'S CHAMBERS - MOMENTS LATER

Judge Burnham lights a cigarette and sits on the edge of his

desk.  Dulaney and Cardenas stand before him.

EXT.  COURTHOUSE - AFTERNOON

Dulaney walks down the steps.  Cardenas joins him.

Cardenas grins.  His comment was meant as a friendly jab

between old friends.  Dulaney doesn't see it that way.

Cardenas studies him for a moment.

Dulaney forces a laugh.  It's not a very convincing one.

Something in Dulaney snaps.  He grabs Cardenas and pushes him

up against the wall.  Cardenas pushes back.

INT.  HALLWAY - AFTERNOON

Dulaney walks towards his office.  Biggs walks quickly down the

hall and joins him.

Biggs steps into Dulaney's office.  Dulaney follows.

INT.  DULANEY'S OFFICE - MORNING

Biggs picks up a remote control off the desk and sits on the

couch.  Dulaney sits at his desk.

Biggs clicks the control.  On the TV we see Rebecca on top of

Marsh in the bedroom.

Watching Rebecca with Marsh bothers Dulaney.

Dulaney stands up and turns off the television.

Biggs studies Dulaney for a moment.  Dulaney's reaction bothers

him.  He turns the TV back on and fast forwards the tape.  The

screen turns to SNOW where the tape has been recorded over.

Biggs raises a hand signaling patience.  SNOW still fills the

TV screen.

Biggs looks at the screen.  A beat.  The SNOW dissolves and a

picture fades in.  The PICTURE LASTS only about five seconds.

We see Rebecca from the back as she straddles Marsh, grinding

up and down on the bed -- her hair flowing down her back.

Marsh raises his hand.  His WRIST IS IN A CAST.  She turns her

head to the side and as she does we see that it is not Rebecca

-- but Joanne Braslow.  The Tape clicks off.

Dulaney stares at the blank screen.

EXT.  PARKING LOT - DUSK

Joanne Braslow walks to her BMW 325i.  She is about to open the

door when Dulaney approaches her.

She starts to get in the car.

She stops -- appears shocked that he knows this.  There is now

a different quality to her -- an edge.

Joanne doesn't appreciate Dulaney throwing her words back in

her face.

Joanne can't hold back the emotion that is building.

Dulaney studies her.

Dulaney walks off.  Joanne stares after him.  Her face is cold,

showing no sign of emotion.

INT.  COURTROOM - DAY

Dulaney sits beside Rebecca, but he seems distant.  Cardenas

stands up.

As soon as she hears the name Rebecca's face becomes tense,

nervous.  Dulaney notices it.  He checks a list.

Judge Burnham motions for Dulaney and Cardenas to approach the

bench.

Dulaney walks back to his chair.  Rebecca appears genuinely

nervous.

INT.  COURTROOM - LATER

Cardenas stands before ROSTON a handsome man with salt and

pepper hair in his late fifties.

There is an AUDIBLE GASP from the crowd.  Cardenas waits,

giving the jury plenty of time to digest the implications of

Roston's last statement.

Dulaney looks at Rebecca dumbfounded.  He tries to control his

surprise from the eyes of the jury, but he can't.  He stares

ahead with a blank expression as he listens to the rest of the

testimony.

Dulaney slowly turns and looks at Rebecca.  The anger and his

sense of betrayal show on his face.

It takes Dulaney a few seconds to object to the question.  He

is clearly preoccupied with the implications of Roston's

testimony.

This strikes a chord with Dulaney.

There are a few SNICKERS from the crowd.  Dulaney is thinking

about the familiarity of Roston's testimony.  Judge Burnham

BANGS his GAVEL.  The crowd becomes silent.

Roston is clearly uncomfortable having to relate this part of

his life.

More noise from the Crowd.  Judge Burnham is annoyed.  He BANGS

his gavel again.

Sounds of protest fill the room as the BAILIFFS start to usher

out the crowd.

INT.  COURTROOM LATER

The gallery is empty.  Only Dulaney, Rebecca, Cardenas,

Troxell, Roston, Judge Burnham, The Jury and Court Officials

remain.

Dulaney is stunned -- deep in thought.  He doesn't appear to

hear the question.

Dulaney looks at the jury.  What he sees isn't good.  He thinks

for a moment.  He leans over and quickly speaks with Rebecca.

We cannot hear them -- but their conversation is heated.

Rebecca says something.  Dulaney looks at Roston.  A beat.

Dulaney stands.

Cardenas bolts from his seat.

Judge Burnham thinks for a moment.

A pause.  Roston thinks, struggling to make a decision.

Roston looks around the court room.  He is embarrassed, filled

with emotion.

Roston looks at the jury -- their disapproving stares.  He is

on the verge of tears.

INT.  REBECCA'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Rebecca opens the door.  A tired-looking Dulaney enters.  They

walk to the couch together in silence.  Dulaney sits.  Rebecca

lifts a BOTTLE of CHAMPAGNE out of an ice bucket.

Dulaney stares at her.  The person he sees has no feelings --

no empathy for anyone.

Rebecca picks up a REMOTE CONTROL from the coffee table and

pushes a button.

CLOSE ON TELEVISION

A TAPE of Dulaney making love to Rebecca fills the screen.  It

is wild, passionate.

CLOSE ON DULANEY

he is dumbfounded as he watches.  The implications of what this

tape could do to him run through his mind.

Something in Dulaney snaps.  He grabs Rebecca.  They struggle,

falling down onto the coffee table.  The CHAMPAGNE bottle

crashes to the floor.  Rebecca rolls off the table to the

floor.  She sits up and moves away from Dulaney by pushing

herself backwards.  Dulaney lunges at her.  His hand grabbing

her ankle.  Rebecca kicks -- breaks free -- stands up.  Dulaney

gets to his feet -- runs after her.  He grabs her by the throat

and smashes her into the wall.  He slaps her across the face.

A thin stream of blood flows from the corner of her mouth.  She

smiles.

Dulaney realizes what he is doing.  He stares at her in horror,

then walks towards the door. He stops.  Goes back to the VHS

machine.  He pushes the EJECT BUTTON on the VCR, removes the

tape and destroys it.

Dulaney's temper is near the breaking point again, he strains

to control himself.

INT.  DULANEY'S HOUSE, DINNING ROOM - NIGHT

Dulaney, Sharon and Michael sit at the table eating dinner.

There is a tense silence.  Although Michael does not know what

is going on he can sense the tension.  The DOORBELL RINGS.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Dulaney answers the front door and Biggs rushes in excited.

Biggs grins.

Dulaney shrugs his shoulders indicating he doesn't have a clue.

Confusion fills Dulaney's face.

INT.  COURTROOM - MORNING

Court is in session.  Rebecca looks around the courtroom,

trying to get a feel of the CROWD'S opinion.  Dulaney is not

there.  She looks at the door anxiously.  The rooms waits.  A

beat.  Dulaney enters -- sits beside Rebecca -- but acts as if

she isn't there.

INT.  COURTROOM - LATER

Dulaney stands at the witness stand in front of an ORIENTAL MAN

in his thirties.

There is a MOAN from the CROWD.  Cardenas looks at Troxell.

Dr. Wong checks his records.

Cardenas realizes there is nothing to gain by examining this

witness.

Cardenas looks worried as he watches an attractive woman in her

mid twenties approach the stand.

DULANEY AND MISS SELLERS

Miss Sellers appears a little nervous.  Dulaney smiles warmly.

Cardenas stands again.

Another BUZZ from the CROWD.   Cardenas inwardly cringes.

INT.  DULANEY'S OFFICE - DUSK

Dulaney is at his desk.  Biggs enters excited.

Dulaney thinks for a moment.  He grins as an idea enters his

mind.

INT.  FILE ROOM - EVENING

Dulaney and Biggs sit at a table going through a stack of

papers.  Dulaney traces his finger along a piece of paper.

INT.  DULANEY'S HOUSE, BATHROOM - EVENING

Dulaney is washing up for dinner.  He speaks to Sharon who is

in the bedroom.

Sharon leaves the room.  Dulaney reaches for his TOOTHBRUSH --

picks up a TUBE of TOOTH PASTE.  It is empty.  He stares at the

EMPTY TUBE.

INT.  COURTROOM - MORNING

Dulaney looks worn, tired -- the tension between him and

Rebecca shows.

Dulaney doesn't seem to hear him.

Dulaney snaps out of it.

As Joanne walks towards the stand Dulaney looks over at

Rebecca.  It's as if he is trying to make up his mind about

her.  Joanne takes her seat.

Cardenas shoots out of his seat.

Dulaney and Cardenas walk over to the bench.

Judge Burnham looks at Cardenas indicating he will hear his

argument now.

This is clearly embarrassing for her.

Dulaney moves the questions along, quickening their pace,

building a rhythm.

She has blurted out the answer before the full implications of

the question has dawned on her.  Her face reveals her mistake.

Cardenas can only watch uncomfortably from his seat.

Dulaney picks up a small PIECE OF PAPER and walks towards

Joanne.

SILENCE fills the room.  Members of the JURY look at Rebecca,

they are confused -- doubt fills their minds.

INT.  DULANEY'S DEN - EVENING

Dark.  Dulaney is standing by the window, watching the RAIN

FALL outside.  Sharon enters.

Dulaney continues to stare out the window.

He shakes his NO.

She senses his pain and moves to him, wrapping her arms around

his shoulders.

He turns and faces her.  She can see the pain on his face.

Dulaney's confusion and emotion begins to surface.  She kisses

him, softly, gently.  Dulaney closes his eyes.  He kisses her

harder - and harder.  His passion builds -- his anger grows.

He runs his arm over his desk, brushing everything to the

floor.

He grabs her and firmly pushes her down on the desk.  He kisses

her forcefully, his lips pressed hard against hers.  She

struggles against him.  His hands tear at her blouse.  It is

rough, angry sex and it frightens Sharon.

She is crying now -- struggling futilely against him.

Dulaney stops and looks.

Michael is standing in the doorway, his face filled with fear

and incomprehension.  Tears streak down his face.

Dulaney freezes as the full power of his actions overwhelm him.

His face floods with anguish as he tries to grasp the total

effect of his behavior.

Filled with pain and embarrassment Dulaney runs from the room.

EXT.  BAND SHELL, PARK - NIGHT

RAIN falls in sheets.  Dulaney sits inside the small structure,

huddled against one of the pillars.  He is a tragic figure,

desperately trying to claw his way back to the world he once

knew.

EXT.  DULANEY'S HOUSE - LATER - NIGHT

RAIN continues to fall.  Dulaney is standing across the street,

staring at the house.  He crosses over and is half way to the

door when he stops.  He starts to leave.

The front door opens and Sharon steps out onto the porch.

He turns around slowly.  He can't bring himself to look at her.

She walks out into the rain.  He lifts his head.  Tears flow

down his face and he cries.  When she begins to cry with him

he breaks down.

He slowly drops to his knees -- holding on to her as if she

were a strong tree in a wind-storm.

INT.  COURTROOM - DAY

Dulaney sits beside Rebecca. There is tension between them.  He

does not look at her.

Dulaney stands and walks over to the jury.

As Dulaney continues we sense he is applying his closing

arguments to himself.

Dulaney walks back to his table and sits down.  Rebecca looks

at him warmly.  Dulaney does not look at her.  Cardenas stands

to address the jury.

INT.  WAITING ROOM, COURTHOUSE - DAY

Dulaney sits on one side of the room -- Rebecca on the other.

The room is quiet -- tense.  A MAN enters and nods to him.

INT.  COURTROOM - DAY

Dulaney sits beside Rebecca.  In the row behind them is Sattler

and Biggs.

The JURY enters.  Their faces betray nothing.  One by one they

file into their seats.

Cardenas sits with Troxell -- both of them watching anxiously.

The JURY FOREMAN stands.

The BAILIFF walks over and takes the VERDICT SLIP from the

FOREMAN, then walks over to Judge Burnham and hands it to him.

Judge Burnham reads the decision.  He hands it back to the

Bailiff who takes it to the COURT CLERK.

ON REBECCA

She waits nervously for the Court Clerk to read the verdict.

ON CARDENAS

he taps his pen against the desk anxiously.

ON THE COURT CLERK

He opens the verdict slip and looks at it.  He stands slowly.

Relief floods Rebecca's face.  Dulaney shows no emotion.

Sattler and Biggs shakes hands, then lean forward to

congratulate Dulaney.

Rebecca turns to Dulaney to hug him -- before she can, Dulaney

has picked up his briefcase and is leaving the courtroom.

INT.  UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - AFTERNOON

Dulaney walks towards his car with Biggs.  There is no sense of

victory or elation.

Dulaney reaches his car.

Biggs walks away.  Dulaney takes out his keys, opens the door

to his car.  He is about to get in when he senses someone

behind him.  He turns around.

Joanne steps out from behind a pillar.  She stares at Dulaney

hatefully.  Her hand is inside her purse.

Dulaney looks around the parking lot.  He is alone.  Joanne is

obviously very high on something.  Her mind seems to wander,

her eyes drift.

Dulaney looks her hand fidgeting in her purse.

Her hand starts to come out of the purse.  Suddenly, Biggs

appears, rushing her from behind a pillar.  He grabs her hand

and pushes her against a car.

He pulls her hand from the purse.  She is holding a piece of

paper.

Dulaney is suddenly very confused.

Dulaney is stunned.  He looks at Biggs with a knowing stare.

EXT.  HOUSE - EVENING

It is RAINING lightly.  Dulaney waits at the door of a nice two

story home.  It is answered by a heavy-set man in his fifties,

JOSEPH KOEHLER.

Koehler starts to close the door, Dulaney sticks his foot

inside, blocking it.  His face is filled with determination.

Koehler sees it.

Koehler thinks for a moment.  He can sense Dulaney's need.

INT.  DULANEY'S CAR - NIGHT

Dulaney stares through the windshield, straining to see the

road through the heavy rain.  His CAR PHONE RINGS.

A calmness spreads over his face.

EXT.  REBECCA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

RAIN FALLS.  LIGHTNING fills the sky.  Dulaney drives up --

finds a PARKING SPOT down the street --  gets out of his car

and runs to the door.  As he KNOCKS as loud CLAP on THUNDER

BOOMS overhead.  Dulaney waits impatiently.  He lifts the

FLOWER POT, removes the key and opens the door.

INT.  DEN - NIGHT

The dim glow of a DESK LAMP is the only source of light.

Dulaney moves through the room slowly.

Two CHAMPAGNE BOTTLES are on the floor by the couch.  Dulaney

looks on the coffee table.

HIS POV - COFFEE TABLE

A VIAL is open and on its side.  A RAZOR BLADE and STRAW lay

next to it.  A pile of WHITE POWDER has been dumped out.

Several lines of cocaine have been drawn.

Dulaney starts to move towards the living room.  He is almost

at the door when the BIG SCREEN TELEVISION TURNS ON.  We see

the tape of Dulaney and Rebecca making love.

Dulaney turns around to find Rebecca standing behind him, a

remote control in her hand.

She shrugs her shoulders.  His frustration clearly amuses her.

She grins slightly, almost taunting him.

Dulaney starts into the living room.

Dulaney loses control.

He grabs her by the shoulders and pushes her into the wall.

Rebecca struggles, but it is little use -- he is a man consumed

with rage.  Dulaney continues to smash her into the wall.

Rebecca reaches onto the desk -- lifts up a FOUNTAIN PEN and

stabs it into Dulaney's shoulder at the base of his neck.

Dulaney SCREAMS and lets go.  Rebecca starts to runs into the

living room.  Dulaney follows.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Dulaney catches Rebecca -- grabs her -- spins her around --

then backhands her across the face, knocking her to the ground.

In the b.g. the VIDEO of them in bed plays on the screen.

Dulaney sits on top of her and grabs her by the hair.  He

repeatedly smashes her head onto the floor.

Dulaney stops.  He looks behind him.

HIS POV

Standing in the bedroom doorway is Dr. Paley.  He is holding a

GUN at Dulaney.

Dulaney stares at him with disbelief as he staggers to his

feet, his hand holding the wound on his shoulder.  A short,

breathless LAUGH drifts out of Dulaney as he starts to put it

all together.  Rebecca stands up, holding her head as she tries

to catch her breath.

Rebecca NODS.  Her face hardens.

Paley struggles to make a decision.  The gun shakes in his

hand.  Suddenly, the whole scheme becomes clear to Dulaney.

Paley is becoming more and more confused.  Dulaney moves

towards him.  Paley lowers the gun slightly.

Confusion crowds Paley's mind.

Betrayal fills Paley's face.  His eyes fill with tears.

Paley stares at her -- his mind races.  Pain fills his face as

he fights to make a decision.  Suddenly, his face tenses.  He

starts to raise the gun at Dulaney -- then just as suddenly he

turns it on Rebecca and FIRES.

The bullet hits Rebecca in the chest.  The force blows her off

her feet.

Paley stares at her blankly.  He slowly lowers the gun and

drops it to the floor, then staggers over to Rebecca.

ON REBECCA

she stares up through glazed, dead eyes.

Paley takes her pulse.  He breaks down, weeping over her body,

his tears signaling to Dulaney that she is dead.

EXT.  REBECCA'S HOUSE - LATER - NIGHT

Police cars are lined up outside, their RED LIGHTS FLASHING.

INT.  REBECCA'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Members of the POLICE FORCE, along with FORENSIC PEOPLE go over

the area.  Dulaney sits on the couch.  He looks indifferent --

as if all emotion has been sucked out of him.  Troxell is

beside him, taking notes.  Dulaney looks up.

A BODYBAG on a stretcher is being wheeled out of the room.

Dulaney follows it with his eyes.  Cardenas enters from the

bedroom.  They lock eyes.

Dulaney doesn't answer.

A beat.  Dulaney looks at him wearily.

Dulaney gets up and starts for the door.  Cardenas watches him.

Dulaney turns around slowly.  Cardenas reaches into his

RAINCOAT pocket and take out a VHS TAPE.

The two men lock eyes.  There is a long silence between them.

Dulaney waits for Cardenas' next move.

