FADE IN

EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

A restaurant supply truck is curbside, near a small

restaurant.  GERALD GRUNICK, forty-one, is closing the back

door of his truck, feeling good about the world, a common

state for him.  He moves towards the cab of the truck and gets

inside as we SUPER:

INT. TRUCK - DAY

As he sits down beaming over his recent good fortune... now we

REVEAL his twelve-year-old son, TOM, seated quietly beside him.

He seems a bit down.  Gerald glances at his son.

Gerald stiffs a grin.

He looks directly at his father and talks quietly, and sincerely.

He shakes his head for emphasis, glad he's received this pep

talk from himself -- he hands the card to his father.

SUPER THE LEGEND -- "FUTURE NETWORK ANCHORMAN"

FADE IN

BOSTON, MASS. - 1965

INT. HIGH SCHOOL - AUDITORIUM - DAY

AARON ALTMAN, looking almost preposterously young in his

graduation gown -- is delivering his valedictory.  He is a

rare bread -- a battle-scarred innocent.

He awaits a laugh and gets only the weird sound of collective

discomfort.

This is very little applause.

ANGLE ON TEACHERS

BACK TO AARON AS WE SUPER: "FUTURE NETWORK NEWS REPORTER"

ANGLE ON STAGE

As Aaron walks to his seat past three full grown tough looking

semi-literate high school graduates.

EXT. SCHOOL YARD - DAY

Clusters of graduates at the fence bordering the sunken school

yard looking down as the tough cap and gowners seen earlier

cuff Aaron around.

CLOSER IN

Aaron feeling from a blow -- his lip bleeding -- his teeth

covered with blood...as he gets to his feet.  He is livid --

something primal triggered by this brutality.

He dodges as they come after him.  They catch him by the hair

and hurl him to the ground.  As he gets up he hurls his

devastating verbal blow.

They twist his arm and grip him -- his face scraped on the

concrete.

He's punched in the stomach and sinks to the ground.  As the

Young Toughs walk off Aaron catches a phrase of their

conversation.

FADE IN

ATLANTA, GEORGIA - 1968

INT. SUBURBAN HOME - NIGHT

JANE CRAIG, ten years old, is in her room typing.  Above the

desk where she works is a bulletin board with letters and

pictures tacked to each one.  Her desk has several file racks

which contain bulging but neat stacks of air mail envelopes --

a roll of stamps in a dispenser is to one side.  Jane types

very well in the glare of her desk lamp.

OTHER ANGLE

SHOWING Jane's FATHER standing near the door.

Jane SCREAMS, and grabs her heart, breathing heavily, babbles

nervously at her Dad.

We SUPER:  "FUTURE NETWORK NEWS PRODUCER"

Her father is himself taken aback with the shock of her reaction.

Falling back towards the door:

We REMAIN WITH Jane who has obviously become disconcerted and

troubled.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

As Jane moves to room at the other end of the hall -- a family

room where her Father reads the latest

of the

mid-60's -- Hunter Thompson, the New Journalism, the slim

Jann Wenner -- Jane bursts into the room.

She advances furiously on her Father since even this strung out,

even with two additional pen pal letters to get off, she had

enough sense of duty to kiss him good night before storming from

the room.  She exits the room INTO BLACK.

Stay on BLACK as we begin MAIN TITLES:

OVER EXT. SMALL MID-WESTERN CITY - DAY

Emerging from the blackness -- Jane Craig -- now a

twenty-eight-year-old woman -- a long speed walker wearing a

jacket to which reflecting stripes have been glued -- the kind

of gear only possessed by someone who runs at off-hours.  The

Jacket itself is a wish-I-had-it souvenir from some important

news assignment, the sort of treasure you love about all else

yet never mention.  She stops running as she feeds quarters into

the first of a phalanx of newspaper machines -- getting seven

different papers before moving on.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

As she enters from the bathroom, having showered and dressed.

The sun is jus now rising.  She sits next to her phone.

INSERT:  JANE'S ROOM

The Filofax book is almost an additional character -- a crucial

hand-fashioned tool of Jane's trade.  She flicks at a page --

takes down a typewritten sheet scotch-taped to it showing the

room number of her crew and reporter.

ON JANE

As she dials one room number.

INT. DUPLICATE MOTEL ROOM - DAY

ANGLE ON CAMERAMAN -- his equipment in evidence though

essentially asleep holding his bedmate's hand, as he listens

to Jane.

BACK TO SCENE

She dales.

INT. DUPLICATE MOTEL ROOM

Where Aaron is switching his TV from station to station,

monitoring the early morning news.  His PHONE RINGS.

and

are all

BACK TO SCENE

She hangs up -- takes the phone off the hook and lays it on the

bed for a moment's solitude.  She sits stiffly, palms on top of

her legs.  It looks like someone with unusually good posture,

waiting for something, and now we BEGIN TO SEE the first signs

redden and she begins to cry.  Now she sobs -- then miraculously

shakes it off and exits quickly to the bathroom.  This crying

episode is clearly part of her morning routine.

INT. BUS STATION - DAY

Jane standing behind her husband-wife - camera-sound team

as they train their attention on Aaron; who is getting ready to

do a stand-up.  There is a DERELICT off to one side.  Aaron holds

his microphone at the ready.

Jane nods her assent.

AARON SEEN THROUGH CAMERA

She points to the derelict.

He puts the microphone down.

He passes a vending machine and checks the stray hair.

INT. GATE AREA - DAY

Jane in the distant b.g. on the phone.  Aaron and crew shooting

as the bus pulls up, hisses to a stop and tired, rumpled

passengers exit the bus.  J.D. SINGER, strong, 9'6" figure

emerges and is displeased to find a camera trained on him.

He reacts with all the grace of a short mercenary.

J.D. gets his luggage from the compartment under the bus.  The

crew shooting.

He starts walking -- the four person newsteam staying with him.

They reach Jane.  She calls to him.

As he reacts to her:

INT. JANE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jane sitting next to Aaron making detailed timing notes as she

screens the material shot that day on a portable monitor unit.

She consults her notes and goes back to the exact spot.

He laughs self-consciously and turns briefly away.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Jane is at the lectern in the darkened auditorium as two large

monitors display some

she has assembled.  On

the lectern is a sign telling us we are at the Conference of

Local Television News Broadcasters.

A WOMAN'S OUTLINE blacked out from behind -- her VOICE

ELECTRICALLY DISGUISED.

ANOTHER ANGLE - ANOTHER WOMAN

in blackness, her VOICE DISGUISED.

A laugh from the audience.  There is a:

ANOTHER ANGLE - FULL FIGURE

A WOMAN in blackness.

The lights come up on the room.  The two screens go black...

there is general APPLAUSE.  Jane blinks nervously.

ON AUDIENCE

Sitting in groups of three -- NEWS TEAM from around the country,

remarkably similar in comparison...a great looking woman, good

looking man (either young or attractively avuncular) and a Black

or Hispanic.  They still APPLAUD -- not yet having grasped the

sincerity of Jane's plea which she presses with more urgency.

with local

The applause stops.

She pauses half a beat for possible applause -- hearing none,

she continues.  An anchorman sneezes -- four people shout

"gesundheit" simultaneously -- they laugh.

TRACKING SHOT

As Jane continues, REVEALING that the news team now have even

more in common.  They do not like Jane.

SHOT CONTINUES

Women playing with their hair, young man bored...one

middle-aged anchorman fusses with a spot on his tie...

ON JANE

Briefly departing from text.

Not a peep -- she is thrown but doggedly presses on with her

prepared speech though her throat constricts a bit, her voice

begins to rasp.

TRACKING SHOT MOVES TO TOM GRUNICK

Seated with other members of his news team, a young blonde

woman whose hand is resting on his inner leg, a good looking

Hispanic.  Tom feels a growing excitement -- Jane is not just

a speaker, she seems a savior.

His female colleague looks at him.

BACK TO JANE

Fumbling with her cards, sunk but game -- gamer than she would

wish.

ON MONITORS

Showing the Japanese Domino Championships as broadcast by all

networks in the Spring of 1985.  It is quite spectacular -- the

dominoes falling into one another provoking waves, crossing tiny

bridges, setting off little fireworks.  JANE'S AUDIENCE applauds

loudly and squeals with delight.

ON SCENE

Jane between the two monitors.  She begins to speak loudly OVER

the AUDIENCE NOISES of approval.

STRAY VOICE - SHOUT "GOOD"

OTHER ANGLE

Jane sitting rocked into momentary catatonia, by the event.

Dazed as an animal stung by a tranquilizer dart.  She takes

some irregular breaths waiting for normal life to return.

WIDER

Tom the last person remaining in the room.  He approaches her --

she is totally unaware of his presence, even when he casually

mounts the stage with an athletic leap.  It takes courage for

Tom to fully intrude himself, which he now does:

She looks up at him.

ANGLE ON TOM

Earnest, nervous -- handsome...Just when she needed a mirage

there it is.

Jane looks up at his smile -- a beat then:

INT. HOTEL RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Jane arrives at the maitre d' stand.  She has attempted to dress

up to the extent that  packing for a short-day trip allows.  She

looks for Tom.  Tom rises from a table and is immediately at

her side.

They are lead to a table and sit down.

He notices that her head has gone into her hands where it

continues to rest.  He looks at her a beat.

She lifts her head.

She takes a roll from the roll plate.  He smiles at her.  She

takes a bite.

EXT. CONVENTION HOTEL - NIGHT

As they walk along -- dumping occasionally and self-consciously.

Jane is feeling a version of being turned on -- that is, a little

adrift and temporarily free of obligations.  She is open to

making a memorable mistake.

Tom shakes his head almost violently.

Jane looks at him curiously -- then:

INT. JANE'S ROOM - NIGHT

A small good room -- her working paraphernalia very much in

evidence...the quality briefcase...the reams of well organized

notes...the thick contact book -- Jane is sitting on the bed --

Tom, not far away in the room's only chair.  One lamp is on

and it serves to place Jane in the shadows and cast Tom in an

enormously flattering light.  MUSIC comes from her miniature

portable STEREO system.

Jane smiles a calming smile.

Jane shifts her position so that her back is to Tom... He is

immobilized by the sudden turn.  Jane waits, just a bit longer

than it would take a man to run from the chair to her side before

experiencing the ghost-like clutch of rejection.  She moves

briskly past the moment -- grabbing a "good night" chocolate

from the pillow and munching it as she return to

agenda.

He moves to the bed.

Jane laughs or, more accurately, scoffs as Tom Continues.

He nods agreement.

Jane laughs very briefly -- then rubs her face vigorously with

her hands... He's making her feel a little crazy.  She gets off

the bed.

A beat, then he mumbles softly to himself.

He gets up to leave.  She follows him.

He turns to her.

He exits.

INT. JANE'S HOTEL - NIGHT

She is on the phone.

INT. AARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

As he talks with Jane.

She smiles.

INT. JANE'S HOTEL - NIGHT

She hangs up -- pulls back the bedspread on the double bed --

on the other half are papers, schedules -- tapes.  She doesn't

clear them off so that she is literally sleeping with her work.

The PHONE RINGS.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH

A deserted well-lit area.  Tom on the phone.

INTERCUT:

ON TOM

Jane is rocked and soured.

EXT. WASHINGTON D.C. STREET - MORNING

Jane and Aaron walking to work -- agitated.

and he had a great

INT. NEWS BUILDING LOBBY - DAY

Tom arrives for first day of work.

INT. ERNIE MERRIMAN'S OFFICE

ERNIE MERRIMAN is the network's Washington Bureau Chief.  He

is in his early 60's, has worked for the network about 40 years

-- part of the golden age -- a family man, an honorable man,

a good guy.  Right now he is welcoming Tom to the network

thereby good-naturedly helping with the destruction of all he

holds dear.  As he hands Tom his credentials:

Ernie gives him a long look -- is he kidding?

EDITING ROOM - NIGHT

Two small TV monitors -- a smallish room.  Jane goes over her

timing notes which correspond to the time code SUPERED on the

monitors.  BOBBIE -- an extraordinarily silent man -- is doing

Jane's bidding.  On the monitor we SEE the mercenary piece

which Jane is editing against a tightening deadline.  The

PHONE RINGS periodically -- Jane conducting abrupt conversations

which continuing to edit.  The pressure is palpable to begin

with but builds and builds; almost like a family fight getting

out of hand and threatening to bend lives.  Through it all, Jane

remains remarkable calm.  Her focus is amazing; her command sexy.

As Bobbie expertly reverses the tape, Tom's face appears in

the glass doorway and then he enters the already crowded room --

Jane's eyes click to him briefly.  She makes not a move to

welcome him.  He pauses, but is committed and tries to find

a piece for himself against the wall.

Jane is distracted by the noise... Tom leaning over towards her.

She momentarily can't think of the word 'corner.'  Then back

to Bobbie:

Bobbie, taking the sharp commands with ever increasing,

yet still repressed resentment.

The Assistant Director, BLAIR LITTON, enters the editing room.

She is about 26 and every night since she got her job as

Assistant Director she has been the first to crack under pressure.

Jane holds up a finger of warning to Blair as she picks up a

ringing phone and talks to Bobbie at the same time.

Through much of this chaos we focus on:

TOM

Wedged into an uncomfortable position between two tape racks --

He is wide-eyed at this circus of tension and fear.  His eyes

dart around constantly -- trying to take in as much as he can,

always returning with wonder to focus on Jane.

She crosses out.

Blair leaves, as Jane gathers up her notes.  She charges out

leaving Tom awkwardly along with Bobbie.

Bobbie stops the machine, turns in his chair and shakes hands.

Then he smiles secretly and speaks his first full sentence.

Tom exits.

INT. BUREAU NEWSROOM

Aaron is having a theoretical discussion with Ernie and

JENNIFER MACK, a correspondent in her early 40's, a pioneer

beauties in news.  She is well-schooled, bred, trained and

known... GEORGE WEIN, a black correspondent in his 40s, and

MARTIN KLEIN, formerly with the Johnson administration --

State Department correspondent for the network.

Jennifer laughs that laugh one always hopes beautiful women

will laugh when one says something funny.  Aaron smiles at her.

Blair enters the scene, Tom trailing several feet behind,

continuing to monitor the budding deadline crises.

Blair flashes a tortured smile -- panic is growing.

INT. EDITING ROOM - NIGHT

Jane up against it now -- but still seemingly calm.  Tom

watching, keeps on glancing at the clock fascinated,

impressed.

INT. RECORDING BOOTH - NIGHT

Where Aaron is writing his last line on a folded over piece of

paper even as he gets ready to record.  He times it with a

stop watch.

INT. EDITING ROOM - NIGHT

Blair glances frantically at her watch.

ON CLOCK

Sweeping from 28 minutes to -- 84 seconds from deadline.  Aaron

walks in, Jane looks up.

ALMOST SIMULTANEOUS DIALOGUE FOLLOWS.  IT BUILDS UNTIL IT

DUPLICATE THE SOUND OF LOUD AND BAWDY SEX.

ON CLOCK

42 seconds away.

Bobbie makes a small bobble -- Jane giving the merest evidence

of the strain, scratching her face repeatedly.

And as the pitch reaches its zenith, 27 seconds left.  Bobbie

hands the tape to Blair.

INT. NEWSROOM - NIGHT

Blair hikes up her skirt and takes off.

VARIOUS SHOTS

Our "chase scene" as Blair soars through the newsroom, leaping a

chair smoothly, smashing her leg against a table in full flight,

the adrenaline deadening the pain -- she arrives at a waiting

elevator -- uses a key dangling from her neck to unlock it... jumps

nervously during the ride and now, in FULL EXTENDED FLIGHT, barrels

down the long corridor heading to the control room where she

arrives; slamming the tape into a technician's hand even as it is

introduced on the air.

INT. NEWSROOM - NIGHT

Aaron, Jane, the others looking at the end of the piece on the

air -- Tom in the b.g. as Blair enters -- relaxed, almost jaunty.

ON MONITOR

The end of the piece -- the Rockwell painting giving way to the

mercenary's actual homecoming which matches the portrait.  The

irony works nicely.  The network anchorman comes up for his close.

BILL RORISH, 50 years old and able to flutter much younger pulses.

He is able and experienced -- a reporter who has become a

journalistic king.

-- he

He gives Jane a congratulatory sock in the shoulder which she

returns -- Tom in the b.g. of the SHOT.

Ernie has walked a few steps to the office.

She smiles.

They leave -- Aaron waving to Tom who stands in the b.g.  The

others leave.  Tom approaches Jane.

Jane grimaces at "pick your brain."

Jane looks at him.

She exits.

EXT. CENTRAL AMERICAN JUNGLE - MORNING

As Aaron, Jane and their CREW march along with a CONTRA SQUAD deep

in their own conversation.  Except for the DIN of TROPICAL BIRDS

they seem almost like a cranky married couple on their way to work.

They have entered a clearing where supplies have been dropped,

the Guerrillas already tearing apart boxes with army boots

inside.

ANGLE ON

A guerrilla soldier rubbing his shoeless foot.  A pair of new boots

sit alongside him.  Jane's Cameraman prepares to shoot, saying in

Spanish, then English:

Jane rushes into the scene incensed.

Then to the totally confused soldier.

By now there is a fair-sized cluster of armed men as well as

the news team staring at the guerrilla, who is at loss as to

what is expected.  He looks to Jane, who can offer no help

save her own determination not to interfere.  Finally he puts

on the boot.

He shoots the scene.

INT. HAY ADAMS HOTEL

Tom, in shirt and tie, is on the phone.  This is a big day.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

As Tom gets directions from the CONCIERGE.

EXT. HOTEL - DAY

Tom has a real sense of the moment -- of having arrived.  The

strange bubble of pleasure rises to the surface as he walks off

to cover his first story.  He laughs out loud, loving his lot.

EXT. CENTRAL AMERICAN JUNGLE - LATER AFTERNOON

Jane in the f.g. with her crew while Aaron talks in rapid Spanish

to the GUERRILLA LEADERS.

He starts to walk towards Jane -- one of the men he was

talking with calling after him with an added thought.

Jane reacts -- a flash of exhilaration.  Aaron is amazed at her

attitude.

Jane laughs out loud, attracting the Guerrillas' attention.

Aaron repeats his speech in Spanish.  The Guerrillas laugh.

EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT

Aaron and Jane in line behind the Guerrillas.  They HEAR A SHOT.

The head of the patrol gestures -- deploying his men.  Aaron

grabs Jane and heads for some cover to the left.  As they run --

more SHOTS.  Jane in work mode.  As soon as they settle.

ON AARON BARELY DISCERNIBLE

As they start taping he is breathless with the nervousness of

the nearly gunfire.

There is the SOUND OF GUNFIRE.

EXT. GOVERNMENT BLDG - AFTERNOON

Tom, squashed in amidst a small mob of reporters... behind a

police line.  He HEARS a reporter next to him say:

A surge.

Tom checks his notes.

INSERT - TOM'S BLACK BOOK

The same model we've seen Jane use.  A list of questions

written in big color highlighted letters.  As he looks down

to study them, everyone else moves suddenly off.

TOM'S P.O.V.

The mass of journalists and technicians shouting questions.

"Will you dispatch troops?" after the Ambassador they've been

awaiting -- clumping on his limo and then being shaken by the

movement of the vehicle.

ON TOM

Standing alone and forlorn as his crew trots back.

EXT. GUERRILLAS CAMP - MORNING

Jane is standing -- talking to her crew.  Others asleep

in b.g. -- a drowsy, morning-after feeling.

She waves him off -- then she walks several yards away, holding

a knapsack in her hand.  She takes off a brush and runs it

through her hair -- opens a plastic case and takes out a travel

toothbrush, brushes her teeth and rinses her mouth with water

from her canteen.  She puts everything back in place, then looks

about, sobs for several beats.  One of the Guerrillas hears her

sobbing and enters the scene -- he stands a respectful distance

away.  Jane finishes, notices him, makes a face by way of

explanation, and exits the scene feeling measurably better.

INT. WASHINGTON CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT

The Washington Control Room.  Jennifer, Jane, Aaron, Blair stand

watching the intro to the Central American piece.  Tom stands in

the distant b.g.  There are over a dozen monitors -- including

one which is constantly on the anchor man, Bill Rorish.

ON TELEVISION MONITORS

Bill Rorish on camera -- an INSERT behind showing Aaron in

blackness planted into a Central American map bordered by rifles.

A separate monitor shows the INSERT alone.

The INSERT MOVES OUT AT US TO FILL THE SCREEN -- WE SEE Aaron's

dim outline and HEAR him say:

The MUSICAL "EVENING NEWS" SIGNATURE COMES IN ever-so-briefly.

The SCREEN GOES TO A COMMERCIAL -- as Blair screams

enthusiastically.

Ernie ENTERS THE  SCENE... He kisses Jane in greeting -- pats

Aaron on the back.

Jennifer gives Jane a mock pat on the back.

ON JANE

As she feels Tom staring at her -- turns and notices him

for the first time.

In the b.g. WE MAY HAVE NOTICED Bill Rorish on one monitor as he

picks up the phone at his anchor desk, during the commercial

break.

There is a stillness in the Control Room as Jane speaks to the

anchor man in New York who WE CAN VIEW on a monitor.

ON MONITOR

We see Bill Rorish.

Blair cringes at Jane's blunt reply.

Jane covers the mouthpiece and turns to Aaron.

Aaron reaches happily for the phone.

We see Rorish over the monitor.  He hangs up.

We see on the monitor that this is not so.  It's a very eggy moment

Aaron.  Tom breaks the silence.

As he passes Jane he leans next to her and WE HEAR him WHISPER.

Jane does her part enormously well -- laughing with amusement...

but her eyes blaze -- her friend has been needlessly humiliated.

Blair wants desperately to be inside Aaron's joke.

INT. SMALL TELEVISION STUDIO - NIGHT

BUDDY FELTON waits alone.  A CAMERA CREW watches him.  He is

well dressed, exceedingly nervous.  He summons the courage to

ask a question.

The Camerawoman punches a button and immediately Buddy's image

comes up on a standing monitor on the studio floor.  He's not

happy with the image -- but works at concealing his reaction --

gasping a bit of air -- trying to touch it.  Aaron enters.

Tom smiles a friendly smile which flusters Buddy momentarily.

But again he almost manages to conceal his private rush.  Buddy's

internal drama is such he invariably finds himself covering up,

fearful roomfuls of people will simultaneously guess his

thoughts.

Aaron directs him behind a screen and looks at his notes.

Aaron is having a hard enough day,  He is visibly annoyed.

Tom laughs.  Aaron shoots him a look.

As Aaron walks out -- Tom is momentarily fixed on the sight of Buddy

walking in small circles giving himself a talking to.

He notices Tom.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Tom distracted -- his day has been a bit of a bummer.  Buddy

self conscious -- the proximity creating an almost unbearable

tension of romance and adventure.

INT. BUILDING LOBBY - NIGHT

A Guard on duty -- a BLACK WOMAN.  She sees Buddy.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Walking.  Buddy in step with him.

Tom turns.  Buddy talks rather quickly -- He cares very much

about leaving Tom with the right impression.  The last words

of his speech he hadn't expected to say.

His heart racing, Buddy attempts casual matter-of-factness.

INT./ENT. REGULAR BAR - NIGHT

Tom and Buddy on adjoining stools.  For Tom, the last weeks have

been humbling, antagonistic.  He's enjoying Buddy who listens

attentively and wholeheartedly endorses every word Tom speaks.

Tom signals for the check.

INT. ERNIE'S OFFICE - DAY

George Weln, the black correspondent and Tom are seated in the

office with Ernie -- they are in mid-meeting.

INT. EDITING ROOM - FOLLOWING DAY

Jane is working with Bobbie the editor... Snatches of the tape

make it obvious that the Labor Secretary has been indicted --

George Weln stands behind Jane, who is dialing a number.

Tom enters.

He pats Bobbie on the back... and exits.

INT. METRO BUS - DAY

Crowded rush hour... Buddy and Tom stand next to each other.

INT. WHITE HOUSE PRESS ROOM - DAY

The 10 A.M. briefing just breaking up -- Jennifer leaves her

network seat in the front row, only to be grabbed by Tom who

steers her outside.

EXT. WHITE HOUSE EAST WING - DAY

In the near distance a circular driveway and a silent armed

MARINE GUARD, standing at attention.

INT. BAR - EARLY EVENING

Buddy and Tom watching the Evening News as Jennifer finishes

her story.

Tom and Buddy smile at each other... energized -- up.

Buddy puts his hand to his heart and makes a LOUD SOUND OF

RAPTURE.

The BARTENDER and some nearby patrons turn and look.  Tom shifts

with discomfort.

INT. WASHINGTON BUREAU - NIGHT

Jane waiting for an elevator... It comes and she steps on just

as Tom clearly excited comes around the bend from Ernie's office

calling for her.  He goes to the stairs.

INT. WALKWAY - NIGHT

He runs out and sees Jane in the lobby below, then takes off

after her.

INT. LOBBY - NIGHT

As he enters and runs outside, looking in both directions then

running off to the right.  A BEAT -- REVEALING Jane has stopped

to talk with Blair -- now she exits.

EXT. WASHINGTON STREET - NIGHT

Tom on the street, ahead of her, thinking he's behind her...

He runs another half a block and stops dejected... Turns to walk

back to the office.  He keeps looking back to see if he missed

her, so that his head is turned as Jane reaches him, says a

fairly social:

She keeps moving -- Tom spinning after her.

She stops.

As Tom savors the moment.

INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - EVENING

Various bureau personnel standing at their desks watching Tom's

piece being broadcast.  We SEE a TANK MISFIRING.

ON MONITOR

We SEE a General walking away from Tom.

ON MONITOR - TWO SHOT

ON TOM

He is a study.

Looking at himself -- and though it's far from his first time on

television -- it's the first time he's seen himself doing serious

work and, by all appearances, doing it well.  As the General

answers in the b.g. --

Tom smiles modestly.

Tom and Jane look over -- then Tom looks to Jane for a verdict.

In the b.g., the news goes to a commercial.

Ernie ENTERS THE SCENE with his fourteen-year-old DAUGHTER

in tow... He approaches Tom.

INT. NEWSROOM - NIGHT (LATE)

Tom is on the phone.

INT. ERNIE MARRIMAN'S VIRGINIA HOME - DAY

Ernie is hosting the news staff for Sunday brunch -- they stand

around drinking in small groups... Aaron is standing with Blair

and a MAN in his fifties we have not seen before.

Aaron looks at her in amazement.

Blair and Aaron laugh appreciatively as he walks off to another

group.

She walks off.

ON JANE

At the bar getting a drink.

Jennifer ENTERS THE SCENE... and leads Jane down the hall until

they are standing alone.

She blinks in wonder.

Jennifer moves toward the drinking table -- Jane, unsteadied

by the dose of self-revelation, moves towards Aaron's circle

and scratches his back in friendship... Tom approaches an she

moves off -- not wanting to deal with him.  She takes a few

breaths as she keeps walking.  We HEAR snatches of PARTY

CONVERSATIONS, i.e:

She moves on; Tom still following.

Jane turns -- sees that Tom is still looking at her from a few

feet away.

She stands there, genuinely frightened.  She must deal with him

now.  He crosses to her.

Jane starts twitching.  She pauses -- holds a hand lightly on

his arm to steady herself.

She meets his gaze for an instant -- and, in that instant, loses

control for the first time in her memory.  She looks strange as

she retreats from this glimpse of upheaval.

She walks away.

ON AARON AND ERNIE

He shakes his head.

Annie comes up.

He EXITS SCENE as Anne watches him go.

ON JANE

As she passes a chair with an afghan shawl on the back -- she

picks it up and wraps it around herself, a bit chilled.  She

sees Jennifer on the stairs and moves toward her calling in a

too loud, anxiety-ridden voice as she goes.

ON STAIRCASE

Jennifer turning as Jane whips up the stairs.

She pushes at Jennifer a little.

Jane pushes her again.

Jane smiles back feigning female bonding -- Jennifer goes back

down the steps and crosses to Tom.

FULL SCENE

Aaron takes in Jane, who is taking in Jennifer and Tom -- then

Aaron begins to sense a new dynamic in the room as Ernie re-enters

and huddles briefly with Paul... The News President is intent...

The two of them walk over to Tom and Jennifer.  We PICK UP just

a few words:

AARON'S P.O.V.

Tom is startled but cool -- nods his head -- Jennifer is amazed

looking at Tom with new and even prettier eyes... Paul and Ernie

now move toward Jane, a whole flow of movement creating a new

energy in the area.  Jane sheds her Afghan as she rises to meet

them.

Aaron has come over to join them now in time to HEAR.

Jane moves quickly off, awed at the prospect of taking on the

big boss.

ON JANE

As she moves past Tom who is talking on the phone, eventually

catching up with Paul.  In the b.g. Tom has just HEARD the

"BEEP" of an ANSWERING MACHINE.

Jane, because of the proximity to Tom is speaking in whispered

intensity.

She nods.

As they move out... Jane goes to Aaron... He moves with her

towards the door.

She runs out the door.  Aaron turns mean and mocks Jane's

last words -- screwing up his face in a savage burlesque.

EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY

As Jane briefly pauses to see which war has room.  Tom opens

the passenger seat of his car -- she gets in.  It moves off.

INT. TOM'S CAR - DAY

As it moves off.

Jane looks over at him -- there's no question he's just told

the truth.

INT. TOM'S OFFICE - DAY

In the b.g. we SEE the Bureau Newsroom beginning to pulse with

activity.  Tom closes the door.  He sits down behind his desk

and opens a bottom drawer -- a clean whit shirt lies there.

He opens the center drawer -- two ties are inside.  He picks

one.  He reaches for a package of new red suspenders.  He takes

off the shirt and puts on the new one -- all of this the work

of an expert craftsman.  By the time he finishes he looks like

the authority figure we know he's now.

INT. BUREAU NEWSROOM - JANE AND BLAIR

Jane is NOT hyper.  She is purposeful -- organized -- even

calming Blair with a little physical contact -- a touch on

the arm, to still her colleague's hysterical demons.

In the b.g. Tom has exited his office and looks about --

waiting for some indication as to what to do next.

Jane sees him.  She moves across the room -- takes Tom by the

arm.

Tom coughs nervously into his hand and takes a pen from a

nearby desk, clips it into his inside pocket and walks off.

GRAPHICS ROOM - DAY

Jane is screening and asking corrections in a graphic

representation of an F-14 shooting down a Libyan Air Force

Mirage Fighter.

She uses the stylus from the ELECTRONIC PAINT MACHINE to outline

an American Air Force E-2C Hawkeyes Radar Plane.  Her work is

stunning.

INT. AARON'S APARTMENT - DAY

He has a glass in hand -- some chips on the table with a

bottle of wine as he selects a Cassette Desk to play.  He picks

a French song -- looks at some of his books.  He might even

read.  He is feigning disinterest for an audience of no one.

He SINGS ALONG with the RECORD in perfect French.

INT. STUDIO HALLWAY - DAY

Tom checking copy in the long hallway leading to the studio --

there is the merest of hubbubs causing him to look up.  Buddy

is being stopped at the other end of the hallway.

ON BUDDY AND SECURITY GUARD

Buddy runs the length of the hallway to Tom's aide despite Tom's

gestures to slow down.

Tom stands there -- a man at home in this media castle.

He leans forward, gives Tom a quick embrace, a small kiss on

the cheek.  Tom turns and walks off down the hallway to meet

his immediate destiny as Buddy looks on.

INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Jane mounts some steps in the control room -- she moves past

the DIRECTOR and TECHNICAL CREW up to the next level where the

two news execs, Ernie and Paul stand with their backs to the

wall, and then up one more step slightly above the desk and

table occupied by Blair.  Now she slips into the large well

paddled throne-like seat -- as WE BEGIN MUSIC CUE.

Literally at her fingertips is the row of buttons which provide

immediate access to the field reporters at the Pentagon, State

and the White House.  In front of her the bank of monitors, the

Technical Team and past them the studio where Tom is seated at

Anchor, a FLOOR PRODUCER and WRITER feeding him copy.

ANGLE FAVORING BLAIR

As she looks at Jane, poised to control the complicated apparatus

of minds and machines comprising the big time network news.

And Jane Craig is at the helm.  Blair experiences a flash of

emotion which transcends envy and verbalizes it.

Jane looks at her and, in a moment of atypical merriment, does

a choking gesture at her own throat as the monitors flash a

graphic reading:  SPECIAL REPORT... We HEAR an ANNOUNCER'S VOICE

say, "This is a Special Report from..."

INSERT:  JANE'S CONTROL PANEL

Each of four buttons labeled so that the microphone can connect

her to Tom and the Field Reporters.  She presses the button

marked "Tom."

Tom's VOICE on speakers.

Gulping the air in relief, she slumps nonetheless impressed by

the macho cool as:

Tom smiles towards her then -- poises himself just as the

Announcer's last words clear.

He begins his report.  He seems authoritative, compelling, even

in a low key way.  We trust him.

Another monitor shows the Graphic running.  In the b.g. two

men approaches Paul.  They look out of place, decidedly

non-business like.

INT. AARON'S APARTMENT - DAY

Aaron is seated, feet up, drinking, listening to MUSIC -- reading

a book, two remote controls are on the cushion next to him.  He

SINGS OUT LOUD with the record as he reads -- at one point

providing his own lyric line OVER THE MUSIC.

He picks up the television remote-control device an puts the

television on, the SOUND OFF.

ON TV

We SEE the graphic of the Libyan plane's flight route, its

missile firing -- the U.S. planes taking off and the shooting

down of the Mirage jet... At one point Aaron lowering the MUSIC

and raising the TV SOUND hearing Tom.

Aaron turns down the TV SOUND and turns up the MUSIC.

INT. BOOTH

Jane's hand flicks at the button marked "PENTAGON."

ON PENTAGON MONITOR

We SEE George and HEAR him through Jane's voice box.

George nods.

ON TOM

INT. AARON'S APARTMENT - DAY

Where he still balances STEREO and TV SOUND.

He picks up the phone.

INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY

As Blair hands it to Jane.

INT. AARON'S ROOM - DAY

He giggles.

Aaron dials again... As we SEE Jennifer standing at the

White House.

ON JANE

He hangs up -- LONG SHOT... Aaron with his remote controls.

The picture switches back to Tom.  He turns UP the VOLUME.

INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Jane is on the phone.  The atmosphere buckling with strain.

Her finger hits the "Tom" button.

ON TOM

Jolted by the shriek in his earpiece but nonetheless continuing.

BACK TO JANE

As she SCREAMS INTO the phone -- this is more than volume, she

is over-the-top livid, her face red, neck cords popping.

As she BANGS the PHONE down.  Paul comments sotto to Ernie.

INT. STUDIO - EIGHT MINUTES LATER

MOVING CAMERA FROM Tom's left profile TOWARDS HIS RIGHT PROFILE,

TAKING IN THE Production Assistant who madly shuffles pages,

even as Tom talks on camera, the monitor through which he sees

the subject of his interview at the Pentagon, the clusters of a

assistants on the floor and now WE CONTINUE TO CIRCLE BEHIND him,

beginning to SEE the Control Room in the b.g. and as we MOVE IN

TOWARDS HIS EAR, the white ear piece firmly in place, we BEGIN

TO HEAR, the barely audible crackle of Jane's VOICE as she tells

him roughly what to say and how long he has to say it.

And NOW ALL IS OBSCURED EXCEPT THE ANCHOR'S EARS, the ear piece

and the RED LIGHT on the CAMERA and beyond... almost an abstract

vision.

INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY

The special report ended, Jane breathes a breath -- she and

Blair momentarily grasp hands.  The first talk concerns Tom.

She nods... totally depleted.

Ernie scoffs in her direction.

She exits the scene.

Tom enters.  He is exuberant.

Paul and Ernie exchange a glance.

Ernie points off... as Tom exits.  The Usher brothers hover.

Man Two has the keyboard out and begins playing the prospective

news theme:  a suite meant to have majesty and drive, a towering

composition -- the effect of it somewhat lessened by the fact

that the two men VOCALIZE OTHER INSTRUMENTS over the keyboard.

INT. NEWSROOM - DAY

As Tom makes his way across it -- crews are drifting in... He

enters Jane's cubby, flushed with the electricity of the "win"

the most noteworthy moment of his working life.

INT. JANE'S CUBBY - DAY

Jane looks at him and nods slightly -- an unconscious spasm of

truthfulness.

Tom indicates that it's an impossible question to answer.  They

enters the elevator.

EXT. NEWS BUILDING - NIGHT

As several people cross the street towards the bar.  Tom has

been holding back on one question.

He starts across the street.

Indicates Bar.

He starts across the street -- then turns and calls to her.

Tom races to catch up with the others -- Jane in the distant b.g.

pauses a beat before walking off in the opposite direction.  Jane

moving quickly along.

SOUND OF MEN VOCALIZING NEWS THEME comes UP AND continues

through:

EXT. AARON'S APARTMENT - EARLY EVENING

As Jane approaches and is surprised to find him sitting on the

stoop outside.

ON AARON

Happy to see her, rising fairly soberly to his feet.  He APPLAUDS

as she comes toward him.

He nods and APPLAUDS some more.

He waves her off... And sits down on the stoop.

She sits a step or two above him, waiting to gauge his mood.

She steals a glance at her watch.

He tales her by the arm and leads her to the corner.

He grabs her and hugs her exuberantly -- takes her face in his

hands and kisses her full on the lips.

He leaves her on the corner and walks back.

ON JANE

As the SOUND OF NEWS THEME VOCALIZING PICKS UP ONE MORE...

Jane moving quickly, hailing a cab.

INT. CAB - EVENING

ON the DRIVER'S annoyed look.

He hits the meter.

EXT. CAPS BAR - EVENING

As the cab pulls up, Jane gets out and pays him.

As she turns to enter the restaurant -- Tom and Jennifer exit.

As they confront each other:

He puts his hand behind her neck in an awkward gesture of

camaraderie.  She awkwardly disengages... waves and steps

inside the door to the restaurant... standing there between

the two sets of doors watching Tom and Jennifer walk away.

ON TOM AND JENNIFER

As they walk to his car, first exchanging a look of reflection

over Jane... then bumping accidentally, then bumping back, a

look, then kissing with passion, wrapped around each other.

INT. JENNIFER'S APT - NIGHT

As Tom and Jennifer rush in locked in an embrace, shedding

clothes even as they enter.

INT. JENNIFER'S APT - NIGHT

We are aware of MOVING FORMS.

They finish.  A beat, then:

ON TOM AND JENNIFER

Tom taken aback by the outburst from this woman he's just made

love to.

She laughs.

Jennifer is touched...

Tom slides out of bed naked -- she moves quickly across the bed

one outstretched hand reaching for his ass, a free -- even lusty

sort of motion punctuated by her comment:

He dances away -- out of range -- liking the action, a stupid

grin on his face.

He opens the door and turns on the light in the closet.

INT. CLOSET - NIGHT

It is a converted room -- given over the racks of clothes and

shoes extraordinarily well organized.  Tom stands there agape.

Various rain coats -- clothes for all climates -- lots of

luggage.

She joins him in the closet -- holding out a sheet in front of

her.

Jennifer laughs -- he follows her gaze and sees himself in

silhouette against the door -- his penis prominent in outline.

Tom is enjoying himself immensely.

We HEAR the SOUND OF SCRATCHING as we:

INT. JANE'S EDITING CUBICLE - MORNING

Jane feeds another tape in -- she is taking editing notes alone

and SCRATCHING her arm.  She looks worn out -- STOCK FOOTAGE OF

STATESMEN move across the small screen.  She sighs and, without

realizing, implores the heavens to help cure a malady she's yet

to recognize in herself.

People have begun to filter into the newsroom in the b.g.

He starts massaging her neck as the phone rings.  she lets it

ring for a beat as Aaron works on her.  As she picks up the

receiver we HEAR a CRACK.  She reacts to it at the same time

she utters a greeting.

He pats her on the back.

INT. WALKWAY - DAY

INT. MANAGEMENT MEETING - DAY

Paul is running the meeting from behind Ernie's desk.

TWO OTHER NON-EDITORIAL MEN are in attendance.  As Paul

discusses the more pressing problems of the network news

division, Jane sits near the window strangely unmoved by

her first moment at the seat of power.  She has the blues.

She looks up at him -- a bit sleepy-eyed.

The men look at her curiously.  She repeats herself more

rationally.

INT. TOM'S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

He has been reading from a respectable stack of mail -- Jane

appears in his doorway.  For the first time, we notice that

she is woefully ba at at least one endeavor -- flirting.

INT. ITALIAN EMBASSY - NIGHT

As they walk in -- one MAN looks at Tom with a glint of

recognition.  Then another -- a handshake -- A WOMAN introduces

herself.  A small knot of people form.

They start crossing the room -- he is moving now, making progress.

But an EGYPTIAN BUSINESSMAN stops him.

He smiles -- people smile back.

ANGLE ON STAIR LANDING

Where Aaron (Pimm's Cut in hand -- a cucumber sticking out)

stands with Martin Klein.  Martin is eating from a huge platter

of appetizers.

AARON'S P.O.V.

From the excited group of people blocking his view,

it's clear there is some personage in attendance.

ON AARON

And now he sees that it's Tom.

He moves off to intercept Jane -- as he stops her... Tom is

stranded -- then sees Aaron and moves over to his side.

A MAN stops and introduces himself to Tom -- shaking his hand:

Tom turns -- the sharpness of the tone unsettles him.

Tom decides not to deal with the remark.  He's jolted by the

hostility.  He leads the way out French Doors to a ground floor

terrace, where Aaron joins him, closes the door and the two men

stare at the party.

Aaron nods.

They look inside.

doing?

On Tom's reaction.

The sudden debate is important to Tom -- but it's moving too

fast for him.

Tom is getting pissed.

A beat.

Aaron's suddenly a good deal happier -- damned if it

isn't a little infectious.

Aaron almost smiles.

Tom enters the party leaving the door open.

LONG SHOT

Aaron in the f.g. -- his BACK TO CAMERA... Beyond him

Tom being approached... then joining Jane.

EXT. JANE'S STREET - NIGHT

As Tom's car comes to a stop.

INT. TOM'S CAR - NIGHT

Tom thinks -- then:

Jane's confused by this.  She looks at him.

He turns towards her -- about to stick his chin out.  Hesitates.

Jane clamps a hand over her own mouth.

She continues to clamp her mouth shut as he exits the car,

opens her door and then begins to half carry, half pull her out.

She keeps her hand clamped over her mouth.  Laughing from

behind her door and runs for it.

ON TOM

His spirits lifted.

ON JANE

Behind the door, trying to hide the glow in her eyes.

INT. JANE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The phone rings... Jane's hand bounces off her nightstand to

turn on the light knocking over and breaking the clock radio

instead.  Three alarm clocks stand next to the clock radio...

Finally the light comes on.  Jane's voice is so thick with

sleep the words she utters are just barely distinguishable.

INTERCUT:

INT. TOM'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

INT. JANE'S EDITING ROOM - DAY

Tom editing a piece with Bobby -- He also has a little typewriter

table set up.  He is reading from the page in the typewriter as

he looks at the piece he has written.

INT. NEWSROOM - NIGHT

As the regulars watch the Evening News, in particular the Date

Rape piece which is now in progress.  Tom anxiously eyeing Jane

out of the corner of his eye as she watches the monitor.  Her

face impossible to read as she studies the screen.

ON MONITOR

NEW SHOT ON MONITOR

Tom and a woman of about thirty -- dignified but fragile -- she

looks like someone who might be cast for a church production

of "Glass Menagerie."

ON NEWSROOM

As Aaron enters the scene.

He is shushed by every woman in the room, accepts this and takes

up a position near Tom and Jane to watch them.

ON MONITOR

ON MONITOR

As the news piece cut to:  Tom's face -- he turns clearing a tear

from his eyes.

ON NEWSROOM

These watching struck -- perhaps embarrassed but riveted.  Aaron

is aghast.  Aaron approaches the set.

Tom stares daggers at him as a public official appears on the

monitor.

ON MONITOR

As his piece concludes.

NEWSROOM

Tom continues to glare at Aaron.

Blair moans with displeasure.  Aaron exits scene.  Others start

to congratulate Tom on the piece -- in the b.g. on the:

MONITOR

We SEE frozen wilderness -- men digging in the ground -- clumps

of people watching them work.

ON JANE

Probing her own ambivalence -- or, to be more accurate, working

towards a positive stance.

She starts off -- Tom stopping her.

ON TOM AND JANE

Now off a bit by themselves.

He walks back towards the area of the monitor.

ON MONITOR

INT. NEWSROOM - TWO WEEKS LATER (SPRING) - DAY

As Aaron walks to his office.

INT. AARON'S OFFICE - DAY

As he enters and finds Ernie bent over his desk.

EXT. WASHINGTON STREET - DAY

Ernie is silent... He's having difficulty.  Aaron is feeling knots

form.  Finally Ernie breaks his silence.

Ernie sits on a bench.

Aaron deflates.

Aaron turns -- his spirit lifted by the unexpected ray of hope.

Several beats.

INT. SMALL TELEVISION STUDIO - NIGHT

Aaron is seated behind a desk -- some old news copy in

his hand.  An unmanned camera is pointing at him.  Tom

is standing a few feet further back studying him.

Tom nods and gestures that he proceed.  Aaron begins reading

the news.  Barely a sentence in, he is interrupted.

Aaron ignores the tip.

Aaron looks but is unimpressed and resumes reading the news.

Tom, not about to be ignored when he knows it's important, moves

behind Aaron and begins to force his jacket down.

look.

He starts to read again.

Tom exits -- Aaron looking after him, clearly taken with the

genuine camaraderie... the unmistakable joy Tom derives from

helping out.  Several beats and Tom comes back with a CAMERAMAN in

tow.

He puts the roll of copy in the prompter.

Tom turns.

SAME SCENE - LATER

Tom totally focused on him down one knee checking him from

various angles.  He interrupts.  Aaron reading from the prompter.

Aaron does same with the story he is reading...

Aaron acknowledges the compliment in news mode.  Punching the

first words.

for the compliment, Tom.

He draws a laugh from the Cameraman as he goes right into the

next story.

EXT. NEWS BUREAU - NIGHT

Aaron, tape in head, is saying his farewell to Tom.  He is facing

his left side as he will do for the rest of his life on earth.

Tom is into helping Aaron he finds himself delivering a locker

room pep talk:

He moves off -- Aaron watching him go, feeling decidedly

uncomfortable by this last piece of advice and vaguely corrupted.

INT. JANE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Jane FLIES INTO FRAME, carrying her dress, two large shoulder

pads clipped to her bra-straps.  She is obviously running a little

late.  Now she slips on the dress -- her pace so quickened that

it momentarily dulls the effect of seeing her in a pretty formal

gown; the kind good girls wear on special nights.  The DOORBELL

RINGS... She opens the door while trying to put on her necklace...

Aaron enters carrying four bulging garment bags and a fistful

of neckties.

She eyes the amount of clothing, goes to the phone and dials.

She holds them in her hand -- indicates with the necklace that

she wants him to help her... he fastens her necklace while looking

over her bare right shoulder as she riffles through his tie

collection.

She hands him the tie and he extracts his grey jacket from a bag --

puts it on and ties the tie... She reaches into a white paper bag

full of fresh purchases and takes out a vial of perfume with a

built-in atomizer and sprays the air in front of hr and walks into

the mist.  ON Aaron's reaction:

Jane, unnoticed, reaches into the paper bag, takes a small box

of condoms and drops it into her evening bag.

EXT. WASHINGTON STREET - NIGHT

Jane on a public phone, Aaron standing nearby within sight

of a taxi stand.

She hangs up... paces... Then looks at Aaron, relaxes.

Aaron poses a question which he feels in his deepest core:

Jane nods.

Before she can deal with that, a cab arrives.

Aaron takes her in -- she looks lovely.

She half-laughs... kisses him, wipes the slight lipstick mark

from his cheek and, in a sudden decision, takes each of her

shoulder pads from her jacket and puts them in his -- improving

his look while diminishing her own.  She gets in the cab.

AARON'S P.O.V.

Jane, leaning all the way over the front seat, giving detailed

instructions to the DRIVER as the cab pulls away... As Aaron

turns and walks off.

INT. CAB - NIGHT

Jane, in her formal, sitting back -- anticipating her date.

EXT. WASHINGTON HOTEL - NIGHT

A hefty percentage of the Washington journalism industry's

men and women dressed formally for one of those evenings where

they can finally assert their own glamour.  Jane ENTERS THE SCENE.

INT. WASHINGTON HOTEL - ATRIUM - NIGHT

As Jane enters, lost momentarily in the lobby -- greenhouse,

the majority of the throng passing through in formal clothes.

A bit of DIALOGUE OVERHEAD from TWO MEN in dinner jackets.

Jane keeps looking for Tom -- passing another MAN, talking to

his SHARP-LOOKING DATE.

Jane moves to the steps and starts up, greeting several

people nervously.  More bits of DIALOGUE, leaking from

conversations of both substance and expedience.

Now, on the second level, she scans the crowd.

JANE'S P.O.V.

The floor below.  Tom in the world's best-fitting tux... Clusters

of people from around him but he works his way easily through them

as he looks for Jane and grins his greetings, men are buoyed,

women's pulses throb.

ON JANE

As she silently mouths the words -- "smile and move and smile

and move."  Which is exactly what he's doing.  Then a contract

with the gods.

ON TOM

Seeing her.  -- He does a tap step -- a brief giddy burst, the

meaning of which is not lost on Jane.  He is acting like her

boyfriend.

ON JANE

Anxiety stripped away revealing a first glimpse of Jane as a

joyous pretty young woman.

ON TOM

Moving quickly up the stairs -- as she walks toward him.

She laughs.  Almost completes an affectionate gesture -- takes

his arm instead.

INT. NEWSROOM - NIGHT

Aaron seated in the main newsroom in shirt-sleeves, writing.  He

takes the just-completed page out of the typewriter and walks over

to the weekend news PRODUCER. (W.N.P.)

George Weln appears...

Aaron nods, as the Producer finishes the copy.

INT. BALLROOM - NIGHT

Bomb sniffing dogs, SECRET SERVICE MEN and D.C. POLICE monitoring

the members of Washington's most trustworthy elite as they pass

through the metal detector.  The line moves slowly -- Jane and

Tom several couples back.

Tom and Jane turn to see a grinning Paul.

Paul enjoys the riposte, looks at Jane who is shrinking within

herself.

He passes through the detector... Tom starts to step through it --

she pulls him back.

He considers this option as she waits.

She walks off.  He runs a few steps to stop her.

She turns.

She steps on the escalator... Riding upwards, concern deepens,

anxiety flows.

ON TOM

Watching her to up the escalator, he finds himself doing

simplest thing, stepping onto a moving step.

FULL SHOT

Jane four steps ahead of him -- not yet aware of him.  He moves

past one other man until he is standing directly behind her.

Jane turns and is a bit blown away by his gesture -- life

threatens to be good.  And now Jane bumps a bit at the top of

the escalator, regaining her balance by grabbing Tom's offered

hand.  As they walk they continue to deliberately hold hands.

INT. NEWS STUDIO - NIGHT

WE are on the studio floor, FOCUSING on the activity around

the Anchor Desk and three cameras... The FLOOR MANAGER stands

ready to cue Aaron, the script is ready to roll on the prompter

machine.

ON AARON

Making sure he is seated on his jacket -- taking one last look

at the hand mirror being held by the MAKEUP WOMAN.  She starts

off -- but Aaron regrabs the mirror almost making her lose her

footing -- a check -- then another check -- he points to a spot

on his forehead which she dabs with the makeup sponge... Both of

them fuss enormously with his hair -- four busy hands.

He watches the Makeup Woman scurry underneath a camera lens,

resits on his jacket and finally has the moment the system has

been denying him for years.  We can HEAR the END OF HIS CUE

in a barely AUDIBLE CRACKLE from the Floor Manager's earphones...

"...with Aaron Altman."

Aaron looks up -- takes a breath.  He's done well -- he's

punched his words and his one thought for the story.  His gaze

has been steady, his voice firm but he has begun to perspire.

He dabs with his finger at the first trickles from his brow --

brushes some more prominent sweat from his upper lip... He

beckons nervously to the Makeup Woman -- who comes in and dabs --

then dabs again as Aaron feels himself under his arms...

She scurries away, Aaron reaching for another Kleenex from her

box and missing it... A graphic illustrating his next scripted

section appears behind him.

And now the moisture on his face is clearly discernible -- the

Floor Manager and Makeup Woman grimacing at the growing specter

as they look at a large monitor.

And now so much moisture sprouts from his upper lip that he

pushes his lower lip out to slurp away the sweat... The Makeup

Woman laughs briefly out loud before catching herself...

Aaron's eyes dart angrily in her direction.

Half-beat until he's sure that he's off -- his shirt now

showing distinct sweat stains...

The Makeup Woman picks up her Kleenex box -- then thinks

better of it...

ON AARON

He blots his face -- some makeup streaked -- by the towel.

ON MAKEUP WOMAN

As she scurries away, this time entering the control room

trotting up one stair to look at the monitor... the Director

talking to his Camera Operators.

than Nixon ever

The Makeup Woman now looks at the bank of monitors.

ON MONITOR

Aaron's makeup-streaked face.

EXT. WASHINGTON STREET - NIGHT

Tom and Jane walking drinks in hand, her arm around his waist.

They stop -- he rests a drink on a ledge and boosts her up

and then sits next to her.

FULL SHOT

REVEALING that they are sitting on an anti-terrorist concrete

abutment protecting a major government building on a beautiful

night in our capitol.  He is still holding her hand -- and

now he notes this.

He interrupts her with the smallest of kisses -- so mall and

swift a kiss that she is left doing her return kisses to mid-

air.  And then he does something he's thought about many times

before -- he briefly caresses her breasts -- while continuing

to look at her.

She laughs a little -- then kisses him.  They break --

surprised and aroused and look at each other...

He leans forward and speaks softly and truly.

She takes a gulp of her drink -- puts a hand to feel the heat

on her own cheek.  Then turns to him.

Several beats.

She looks at him -- he's thinking.

She elbows him.  Tom takes in the choices -- then:

She moves off the concrete wall.

She starts to flurry with activity -- moves to the curb when

out of nowhere Tom barks a sharp command, the first time any

of his actions has been tinged with fury.

Thrown, she stops and turns.  He walks to her.

EXT. AARON'S HOUSE - NIGHT

As Jane exits a cab and moves up the steps.

INT. AARON'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY - NIGHT

It is at the top of a flight of steps.  She KNOCKS on the DOOR.

RINGS.  KNOCKS.  Aaron opens it.  He is wearing a sweatshirt

and cords.

She enters.

INT. AARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

He looks at a clock reading 1:15 in the morning.

She starts for the door.

She sits.  He walks to a desk and looks at her briefly... Silence.

A remarkably long silence -- her mind wanders, she takes stock...

it is evident that he is straining to get it right, reaching

into himself.

She is getting pissed.

She's briefly impressed.  He has a point.

He pauses to catch his breath -- breathing deeply through his

nose.

Aaron slumps down -- it's been a long round.

INT. TOM'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A CAR DOOR SLAMS in the street below -- he goes towards the

window which is blocked by his sofa -- puts his knees in and

looks out.

TOM'S P.O.V.

A woman walking from a car.

ON TOM

Momentarily thinking it's Jane.  Elated.

TOM'S P.O.V.

It is not Jane.  The PHONE RINGS.

INTERCUT:

BACK TO SCENE

As he answers and we have the following conversation between

Jane, who is using the phone, with Aaron seen just a few feet

away.  Tom in his apartment.

Her eyes meet Aaron's.

Aaron beckons for the phone.  Jane hands it to him, as she does

so:

She takes the phone.

Several beats of silence.  Finally:

looks at her.

She bows her head.

She gulps a breath.  Her hands on her knees, leaning over --

another deep breath.  Aaron takes in the specter.

INT. JANE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

As she enters -- goes immediately to the phone.

ON PHONE...

Cradled in an answering machine -- indexes for sixteen

one-button calls, mostly people from work -- "Parents" etc.

Jane plays her answering tape.  It is silent -- no messages...

She fast forwards to double-check.  Just the SOUND of blank

tape.  She pushes the button next to the "Tom Grunick."  We

HEAR a busy signal.

ON JANE

She hangs up the phone.  Then compulsively hits the "Tom"

button again.  Busy.  And again.  Busy.  She considers for

a moment hitting the button next to Aaron's name.

She presses the button next to Tom's name.  Busy.  And again.

Busy.

EXT. ERNIE MERRIMAN'S HOUSE - MONDAY MORNING

As he picks up for newspapers dotting his lawn and opens the

door of his car -- just as his wife calls from the door.

Ernie, just a bit concerned, walks back to his house -- the

four newspapers thick enough to be an awkward carry.

INT. ERNIE'S HOUSE

A phone in the immaculate living room.

He holds the phone down at his side for a beat, composing

himself in the face of a sudden and horrible turn of events.

He hangs up.

She takes his hand and kisses it -- then hugs him.

He kisses her sad face.

He walks towards the door -- picks up his newspapers on the

tray beneath the hall mirror and does a start.

HIS P.O.V.

In the mirror he SEES his wife making faces at him behind his

back.  He EXITS his home without comment.

INT. EDITING ROOM - DAY

Jane is sitting in her editing cubby -- it is past noon.  She

rises and stands in her doorway looking toward Tom's office --

the door is open, the room is empty.  Blair ENTERS carrying

an armload of tapes.  She looks extraordinary.

Jane waves it off.

Jane takes the tape.

Blair EXITS... Jane pops the tape in, automatically making

timing notes, then standing -- looking again towards Tom's

door.

JANE'S P.O.V.

The door now closed.

JANE

She stops the tape -- summons herself.  She walks towards Tom's

office and opens the door.  Tom is seated behind his desk.

She is obviously in pain but still alert enough to catch Tom's

answer.

INT. TOM'S OFFICE - DAY

And, now OPENING the door a bit more -- Tom's father is REVEALED

seated across from him.

As she retreats:

She laughs nervously as she exits.

TOM AND HIS DAD

Tom thinks a beat.

Tom finds the comment off-the-wall enough to be thought

provoking.

INT. NEWSROOM - DAY

Paul arriving with Bill Rorish.  The first time we have seen

the multi-millionaire anchorman in the flesh.  He has the grace

and dignity of a man who spends every waking moment working on

grace and dignity,

He and Paul are in the midst of an important conversation --

muted and ominous.

Blair ENTERS scene.  The smallest flicker of interest from Bill,

but more than enough to justify her going into hock for the

outfit.

A self-conscious look of greeting to Paul and she's gone.

Paul nods "yes."

AS Bill turns:

Tom and his Father ENTER the scene from Tom's office.  Bill

walks to Tom.

AS they shake:

INSERT

A great handshake.

ON MR. GRUNICK'S FACE

touched, as he watches the networks' most prominent journalist

greet his son.

ON TOM

Equally touched as he watches the world's most prominent

journalist greet his Dad, who turns goofy with excitement.

He puts a big hand on his son's cheek -- a farewell pat.  Then

whispers in his ear.

Tom watches his father walk off and moves immediately to Jane's

editing room.

INT. JANE'S EDITING ROOM - DAY

AS Tom enters...

Blair enters wildly into the scene.

Bobbie sticks his head out of his office...

AS Tom focuses and moves off:

INT. NEWSROOM AND HALLWAYS - DAY

Moving with Tom.  Nervousness growing, confidence gone, he

proceeds down the hallway.

INT. ERNIE'S OUTER OFFICE - DAY

Tom sits down -- pats his tie in place... A beat and the door

opens.  Paul leads out Martin Klein.  They shake hands.

They shake.

A little smile to Tom and he's off.

Tom enters the room.  A nervous cough in evidence as he

crosses to a seat.

INT. NEWSROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Aaron and Ernie are off to the side in the newsroom -- People

are packing their belongings -- as secretaries cry and embrace --

from an office rumbles a shouted denunciation:

Tom enters scene.

Tom takes this in.

A weeping woman bursts into their circle and sweeps Ernie away.

Tom and Aaron stand there -- comrades at last -- victims of

the same sword.

He extends his hand.

Aaron looks at people packing their belongings in boxes -- a

few pockets of conversation... Ernie reading some copy.

Aaron taken by surprise -- laughs.

He exits.

INT. TOM'S OFFICE - DAY

AS he picks up a clean wastebasket and deposits his belongings.

A scheduled book, clean shirt, two ties, cuff-links, a travel

mirror, cassettes of his Washington reporting.  His desk clear --

he writes on a clean piece of copy paper.  He centers it on his

desk.

INSERT - PAPER

"Good luck, you'll love the bureau chief... Previous Occupants."

INT. NEWSROOM - DAY

AS Tom enters from his office, a wake is slowly igniting.  Tom

moves along the edge of the room, carrying his wastebasket full

of belongings, not really a part of the mournful festivities.

TOM'S P.O.V.

Jane across the room hugging one person after another.

ON JANE

AS she embraces an older secretary.

A two-armed tight embrace of Martin Klein.

Blair is at hand as they embrace.

And now she sees Tom -- he mouths one word at her -- "London."

She nods that she already knows and then lets her body sag a

little.  He gestures her towards her editing room, so they can

rendezvous.

INT. EDITING ROOM - DAY

AS Tom enters and waits for Jane.  When she enters he closes

the door.

She looks at him expectantly.  It's not what he's feeling.

A beat -- Jane takes it in.

They kiss.

INT. AARON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The phone rings.  He answers.

INT. JANE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Jane -- still at the office -- it is quite late.

INT. SIDEWALK - RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Across the street from the bureau's building.  Aaron and Jane

are having a beer.  They are in mid-conversation.

He laughs.

Jane looks at him levelly.

Jane smiles -- Aaron has grown suddenly angry.  He rises,

walks away, then turns.

EXT. OFFICE - NIGHT

We LOOK THROUGH THE WINDOW as Jane enters -- in a frenzy --

searching the stacks.

INT. TAPE LIBRARY - NIGHT

As she locates the cassette labelled "DATE-RAPE - 9/26 -

EVENING NEWS - OUTTAKES."

INT. TAPE CUBBY - NIGHT

As she inserts the tape into the player.

ANGLE ON JANE... AND MONITOR

As she watches... this is what she sees...

She cries.  We HEAR Tom.

The tape is rocky now -- the Sound Woman and Cameraman

continue to roll as they move towards their next shot --

at times the camera pointing towards the carpet -- but

the sound continues.  The crew chatting -- mentioning

that the tape is still rolling.

Tom moves through the SHOT.

Young Woman chuckles.

Jane chuckles.

As Jane watches we SEE Tom work up the tears we saw in the

Evening News piece -- as he does so:

ON Jane's shocked reaction:

EXT. BWI AIRPORT - DAY

Jane's cab pulls up to the curb.  She gets out -- she is

carrying no luggage.  She sees Tom who hurriedly walks up

to her.  Jane is fighting to maintain a calm.

He briefly opens a paper gift shop bag he is holding and shows

her he has bought them each a bathing suit.

He looks at her with anticipatory distaste evident on his face.

Tom half turns from her and moves back toward the bench.  Jane close

behind, stalking him.

He simply turns and walks away -- looking back once as Jane

stands there mucked up by his sudden departure -- the lack

of resolution to their confrontation is palpable.

INT. TERMINAL - DAY

On Tom moving past the metal detector.  He too is frustrated

-- pissed off at her.

INT. OTHER TERMINAL AREA

Jane moving quickly along towards the metal detectors.

INT. METAL DETECTOR

As Jane passes through and sets off the buzzer.  She stands

there -- the heel of her hand pressed to her brow trying to

stem the tears.  As others look on, she takes a huge key ring

from her pocket -- deposits it in the box -- walks through

without a buzzer and moves on.

INT. BOARDING RAMP - DAY

Tom waiting while in the b.g.  "People Eater" busses ferry

passengers to the plane.

As one full "People Eater" pulls away and another empty one arrives.

Others start to board.  He sees Jane moving towards him.

He walks to her, she gestures back towards the street.

She looks at him.

They look at each other.

The pressure begins to bend Jane's resolve.

He hugs her.  Now that it's over, they can each openly care

for each other.  While in the embrace:

He kisses her lightly -- looking at her... Then heartfelt:

He walks to the People Eater and gets on, still holding his

paper bags of bathing suits.  The bus pulls away.

ON JANE

Watching him go.

JANE'S P.O.V.

Tom standing at the front window of the bus -- framed very

much as he is when on television.

INT. AIRPORT TAXICAB - DAY

Jane gets quickly into cab.

The cab pulls away.

She sits back in the seat (containing herself) before finally and

quietly adding what she knows to be true:

FADE IN:

EXT. CONVENTION CENTER - DAY

Much the same place where Jane and Tom first met.  The

words "SEVEN YEAS LATER" appears on the screen.

A sign off to one side tells us it's the annual meeting of the

Local Television Broadcasters... and that at 2 P.M.  Tom Grunick

will be speaking on "Responsibilities of Broadcast Journalism

for the '90s."

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Much the same audience, though two members of the audience

may strike particular interest -- curly haired man seen

from behind holding a similarly curly haired five-year-old.

Tom is in mid-speech.

Some good-natured laughter.

The audience really enjoys this:

SAME SCENE -- SOME MINUTES LATER

MOVING SHOT...

The anchor teams -- leaning forward.  They love this man,

a humble specialist refusing the generalist trap.  Imagine

the feeling -- you see, on the top of the mountain, a man

not unlike yourself.

A svelte, classic, warm beauty gets to her feet.

ON CURLY HAIRED MAN AND BOY...

Aaron and his son as Aaron cranes for a look at Mrs. Grunick.

INT. AUDITORIUM - STAGE AREA - MOMENTS LATER

Tom and Lila shaking hand.  Aaron, his son in his arms, wait.

ON TOM

As he sees Aaron... he is clearly delighted.

He claps him on the back... Aaron is as pleased as he is

uncomfortable with the attention.

Tom looks at him -- Aaron gives his son a disciplinary nudge.

He starts off.  She pulls him back for an urgent communication.

INT. WALKWAY - DAY

Tom, Aaron and the boy walking along.  Tom plays with Cliff

as they move.  The boy is delighted.  Jane is in a park -- a

blanket spread out -- she is wearing shorts and a top -- she

has some wine and a small picnic -- a toy for Clifford.

She HEARS her name being called.

ON JANE

Shielding her eyes from the sun -- now making out Tom.  As

they reach her.

She hands him a toy.

The boy kisses Jane's hand.

She gives him a quick kiss.  He shakes hands with Aaron.

Tom shuffles uncomfortably.

ON JANE

Smiling, appreciating Aaron's attitude toward a blandishment of the

powerful.

Tom walks away.  He's a good twenty yards away when Aaron looks up

to see his son running after Tom.

Tom now notices the boy, leans down and pats him.

The boy starts back.

As Clifford runs back to his father, Aaron sits next to Jane.

Aaron laughs at the very notion of Jane finding water sports a lure.

Jane deliberately moves past this moment.

He continues to talk.  As the two former colleagues catch up,

their ease returns, if not their intimacy, as the frame locks and

the scene slowly recedes into a black b.g. and we...

