Chasing Amy

Written by Kevin Smith

INT. COMIC BOOK STORE - DAY

A pile of COMIC BOOKS are on a shelf next to myriad

others. The most prominent one is called BLUNTMAN AND

CHRONIC'.  A hand reaches in and pulls one out of frame.

HOLDEN opens the comic and flips through it He shakes his

head.  BANKY looks over his shoulder.

They approach the counter, where STEVE-DAVE, the store

manager, and WALT the Fan-boy, play a card game.

They snicker and high-five one another.  Holden rolls his

eyes.

Steve-Dave offers the boys his two middle fingers, then

goes back to playing his game with Walt.  Holden and

Banky stare, shocked.  Banky nudges Holden and they both

exit Steve-Dave and the Fan-boy slap hands and go back to

playing.

Suddenly.  A trash can crashes through the front window.

Steve-Dave and Walt hit the deck like bitches, covering

one another.  They look up slowly. Steve-Dave leaps to

his feet and looks at the shattered mess.  He pulls

something off the garbage can and reads it.

CREDITS

INT. COMIC BOOK: CONVENTION SIGNING BOOTH - DAY

A physically large FAN - sweaty brow, tote bag bursting

with comics - leans forward, smiling.

Holden sits at a table.  Across from the barely-managing-

to-stand Fan.  He offers him a patronizingly kind, half-

smile in return,

We're at a Comic Book show, specifically at a book-

signing. Behind Holden hangs a large banner, heralding

HOLDEN McNEIL AND BANKY EDWARDS -

CREATORS OF BLUNTMAN AND CHRONIC'. Beside it is a large

mock-up of the comic book cover which features two stoner

super-heroes who bear a

striking resemblance to a pair of very familiar friendly

neighborhood drug

dealers, Holden hands the book back to the Fan.

BANKY signs the book of another COLLECTOR.

Banky freezes up.  He composes himself and continues

signing.

A LITTLE KID steps up but the Collector lingers.

Holden accepts a comic from another Fan.

Before Holden can finish, a loud crash is heard.  He

looks to his left and freaks.

Banky is throttling the Collector from across the table.

The Collector attempts to fight him off.  SECURITY GUARDS

pull them apart. Holden grabs Banky.

The Security Guards drag the collector away.

INT. COMIC BOOK CONVENTION LECTURE HALL - DAY

HOOPER fills the frame.  He comes off like a typical, pro-

black/anti-white homeboy.

We're at a panel discussion.  The room is full.  Five

creators sit at a long table, their names on placards in

front of them.

(One of them is a very striking Girl.)  The banner behind

them reads WORDS UP - MINORITY VOICES IN COMICS'.

During the speech, Holden and Banky enter and sit up

front.

Hooper whips his head around, looking for the source of

the comment

Hooper explodes, He pulls a nine millimeter from his

belt, draws on Banky and fires.  Banky goes down, falling

forward into the crowd The crowd screams and starts to

scatter, Hooper jumps over the table and raises his fists

in the air.

The crowd-is gone.  Holden sits in his chair, laughing.

Hooper steps off the stage and picks Banky's head up off

the floor.

Hooper sounds different Actually, he sounds gay.

Actually - he is.  Banky smiles.

They turn to see...

A beautiful, blonde, ruffled-haired angel swinging her

purse in a circle. Her name is ALYSSA.  She's the

striking Girl from the panel who didn't get to say much.

Holden hits him.

Banky seethes.

Banky offers Holden a puzzled glance.  Then he nods to

Hooper.

INT BAR - NIGHT

Holden, Banky, Alyssa and Hooper sir around a table

drinking, talking, and smoking.

Banky and Hooper exit, leaving Alyssa and Holden alone at

the table.

Alyssa laughs.  Holden smiles.

AT THE DART BOARD

A dart hits the board then, one hits the wall beside the

board.

Alyssa winds up with another dart.  Holden watches. Her's

always hit. His never do.

Through the window, we see a COUPLE making out on the

hood of a car.

Holden is silent Alyssa downs her drink.

Alyssa tosses her last dart.  Holden seems a bit dazed.

He looks out the window.

Alyssa exits to the night.  Holden stares after her.  Two

beats later, Hooper and Banky enter, holding an

'Everything's Archie' comic between them.

Banky runs out Holden shrugs at Hooper.

They begin exiting.

INT. STUDIO - DAY

We're in Holden and Banky's studio/apartment.  It's a

rented loft-style place with high ceilings, wood floors

and sparse furnishings.  There are posters on the walls,

a sort of kitchenette, a hockey net, a big TV. (with all

the trimmings - VCR, Laserdisc player, Sega, SNES), a

huge comfy couch, and two drawing boards with adjacent

desks (littered with pencils, pens, coloring pencils,

paints, erasers, etc.) - at which sit Holden and Banky.

They're working.  Some music plays.

C.U. OF HOLDEN PENCILING - over his shoulder, we see

Holden sketching Chronic in mid-attack of his arch-

nemesis - the Giggler.  Holden erases a line and re-

draws.

C.U. OF BANKY INKING - over his shoulder, we see Banky

outlining a pre-penciled page.  He traces Bluntman

swinging from a street light.

The two work in silence.  Then...

The phone starts ringing.  Holden answers it, while still

drawing.

CROSSCUT between Holden and Hooper.  He's on a phone in a

CLUB.

It's a club - people are mingling, a band is playing,

it's loud.  But something's fishy.  Hooper's tending bar.

He hands a GUY a drink.  The Guy sips it.

Hooper looks around in a very exaggerated fashion.

The Guy shoots Hooper an angry glare, Banky enters.

The Guy angrily pulls out his money and slams it on the

bar.

Holden enters.

ON THE DANCE FLOOR - in the middle of a thrall of people -

dances Alyssa.  She moves like a cat and she's looking

very sexy.

Hooper, Holden, and Banky stare OC.

Holden smacks Banky and moves to exit.

Holden exits; They watch him go.  Banky looks around.

ON THE DANCE FLOOR - Holden slips into the crowd and

dances up to Alyssa.  He intentionally bumps into her.

The Sand stops playing. People clap.

Holden looks at her.

The SINGER on stage speaks into the microphone.

The crowd applauds.  Alyssa shakes her head, smiling.

Holden pokes her.

Alyssa shakes her head no.  The crowd urges her.  Holden

pushes her forward.

The crowd thunders.  Alyssa offers the Singer an

embarrassed half-smile.  She looks at Holden, who claps

along with the others and nods toward the stage.  Alyssa

shakes her head and relents, heading through the crowd

Banky and Hooper stand at the bar.

Alyssa jumps on stage, hugging the Singer.  She takes the

mic, shaking her head.  The crowd is applauding.

The crowd cheers.  Alyssa laughs.  She turns to the band

and says something which they nod.  She turns back to the

crowd.

Holden smiles.  Banky joins him.  Holden glances at him.

Banky offers a mocking mimic of his smile.

The band starts playing.  Cross cutting begins.

Alyssa launches into a torchy tune.  The song is

extremely sexy - as is Alyssa who works the mic, making

direct eye contact with...

Holden.  Or does she!  Holden is smiling, being seduced,

Banky rolls his eyes.  Beside Holden, stands a pretty

GIRL with a short haircut, who's also riveted by Alyssa's

performance.

Alyssa makes big-time eye contact with somebody out

there.

The song seems to be aimed at whoever she's looking at.

It's more than obvious there's a seduction going on, bur

of whom!  At the end of the song, the crowd goes wild but

Alyssa's preoccupied.  She points to someone in the

crowd, and curls her finger back in a 'c'mere' fashion,

urging whoever it is to join her.  She jumps off the

stage.

Holden shakes his head sheepishly and looks downward, aw-

shucks style.  At that moment, the Girl beside him leaps

forward.  Banky's eyes widen.  Holden looks up and is

suddenly taken aback.

Alyssa and the Girl race into each other's arms and fall

into a way-to-passionate-to-mean-anything-else kiss.

Holden's eyes bug.  Banky allows a smile to creep across

his face.  The crowd applauds.  Banky looks around, and

for the first time, we get the distinct impression that

this is a lesbian bar...

There are a lot of chicks in this place.  Gay chicks.

Banky looks at Holden and slaps him on the back.

Holden continues to stare - mouth agape.

Alyssa and the Girl continue to kiss.

INT. HER-STERECTOMY - LATER

Banky, Holden, Alyssa and the Girl from the dance floor

sit around a table.  Alyssa and the Girl continue to make

out.  Holden and Banky casually watch, wide-eyed.  Banky

stares a little harder.  Holden hits him.

Alyssa and the Girl break their kiss.

Kim exits.  Banky is smiling ear-to-ear.  Alyssa looks at

him.

Banky and Alyssa laugh.  Holden looks at a small scar on

his arm and thinks better about mentioning it.  Then Kim

re-enters and plants a big kiss on Alyssa's neck.

Alyssa waves at him as he exits.  Banky slides out of the

booth.

Holden reaches in and pulls Banky out.  Alyssa watches

them go, then turns and kisses Kim.

INT. M-TV EXEC'S OFFICE WAITING ROOM - DAY

Holden looks preoccupied.  Banky flips through magazines,

biting off mini pieces of the gum he's chewing.  He

sticks them between pages, presses the mag closed, picks

up another one and then repeats the whole process.  A

Receptionist types.

The Receptionist stops typing and looks at Banky,

shocked.

The Secretary goes back to typing.  Banky shrugs at

Holden.

JOHN SLOSS, the boy's lawyer, joins them.

INT. M-TV EXEC'S OFFICE - DAY

The EXECS are a casual couple of guys, sitting on couches

across from our trio.

The Execs and Sloss laugh.  Holden and Banky politely

join in.  Banky shoots Holden a 'these guys are idiots'

look.

The Execs laugh hard.  Sloss secretly shrugs to Banky and

gives the thumbs up.

Banky leans back into the couch, wearing a thoughtful

face.  He looks to Holden, then to Sloss.  Sloss nods in

understanding.

The Exec's smile and head our, closing the door behind

then.  Sloss turns to Banky.

They clasp hands and quietly explode in ebullience.

Banky and Sloss freeze.  They stare at Holden.

Banky sits at the Exec's desk and starts rifling through

the guy's stuff.

INT. STUDIO - DAY

There is a door.  There's a knock at the door.  Holden

opens it and Alyssa is standing there.

Holden smiles.

EXT. RIVERFRONT PARK - DAY

Alyssa and Holden walk through the park, eating hot dogs.

They come to a swing set and sit down on the swings.

Holden looks away, embarrassed,

Alyssa holds up her hand.

Alyssa swallows what she's chewing and releases her

tongue, which is just huge.  Holden is transfixed.

Alyssa wraps it back up and smiles, standing.

She exits. Holden remains in the swing.  Alyssa comes

back in.

INT AIRPORT - DAY

Holden enters. Banky tries to balance way-too-much

luggage.

A beeping sound is heard.  Holden checks his beeper.

Holden exits.  Banky starts packing his mags up.  A

little KID enters, staring at him.

Holden finishes dialing the phone.  Cross cut between him

and Alyssa at home.

They hang up.  Holden reacts to something OC and exits

quickly.

C11. Banky points to pictures in the book.  The kid looks

on.

Holden grabs Banky's arm and drags him away.

And he's gone.  Banky stands there, open-mouthed.  A

check-in FLIGHT ATTENDANT comes up to him.  His name-tag

reads 'Frank'.

Banky storms away.  The Flight Attendant watches him go.

EXT APARTMENT 6-D - DAY

Holden knocks at the door.  It opens.  A WOMAN is

standing in the doorway in her bra She looks Holden up

and down and smirks.

Holden's at a loss.  Alyssa slips past the Woman,

carrying an overnight bag.

She slams the door. Holden looks to Alyssa.

She heads down the stairs.

She smiles and continues on.  Holden looks back up at the

door.  He sticks his own tongue our and sizes it with his

fingers.

EXT TURNPIKE - DAY

The car sits in traffic.

INT CAR - DAY

Holden sighs.  Alyssa plays with the radio.

HANGING OUT MONTAGE BEGINS

With the requisite music, over which we hear a

conversation between Holden and Alyssa.

1) Holden and Alyssa sit in the DINER eating.  Holden's

talking.  The Waitress walks past and drops her pad.  She

bends over, to pick it up, hiking her mini-skirt up in

the process.  Alyssa stares at her ass.  Holden stops

talking and stares at her.  Alyssa looks over at him and

offers a caught smile.

2) Holden pushes a shopping cart at the FOOD STORE,

throwing various things into the basket.  Alyssa comes up

with a box of Tampons and throws them in.  Holden glances

at them, a bit flushed.  Alyssa catches him, picks up the

box, and pulls one out.  She proceeds to demonstrate

their usage, throwing one leg on the can and miming

insertion.  Holden puts up his hands in the "I know, I

know," fashion.

3) In the Studio, Holden displays some of his artwork to

Alyssa, during which she pulls out a cigarette and goes

to light it.  It's a child-proof lighter, so she's having

trouble.  Holden grows a little frustrated.  Finally, he

grabs the lighter and pulls the child proof tab out with

his teeth.  Alyssa stares at him a bit taken aback.

Holden spits the tab out, and lights Alyssa's smoke.  He

then continues with his display.

4) Holden and Alyssa at the COMIC BOOK STORE.  Steve-Dave

and the Fan-Boy eye them suspiciously.  Alyssa pays for a

comic.  Steve-Dave glowers at Holden.  He gives Alyssa

her change and they exit.  Steve-Dave goes back to his

card game with the Fan-Boy.  Suddenly, a garbage can

comes crashing through their window.  Steve-Dave rips a

check off the garbage can and punches the counter.  The

Fan-Boy rubs his back soothingly,

5) Holden and Alyssa walk through a PARKING LOT, talking.

She takes his hand and pulls his arm around her shoulder.

Holden smiles to himself.

INT STUDIO - DAY

Holden and Banky play EA Sports Hockey on Sega.  There's

a knock at the door.

Alyssa enters and stands besides them, smiling at their

game.

They play.  Cut back and forth between the game and

Banky, Holden, and Alyssa.

Banky storms away.  Alyssa looks at Holden,

INT SKEE-BALL ARCADE - DAY

Holden feeds a couple dollars into the change machine.

Alyssa looks on.

They head toward the skee-ball runs.

Holden rolls the ball.  It pops into a twenty point

circle.

Alyssa picks up a ball, squints to aim, and whips it

overhand.  It pops off one of the circles and shoots back

at them, missing them as they duck.  An OC knock and an

"OW!" is heard.  Holden reacts as Alyssa laughs.

Holden ducks as the ball comes sailing back at his head.

He gets up.

Holden whips the ball in surprise.  It ricochets off the

ceiling and through the glass of an old pinball machine.

Alyssa laughs.  Holden looks around, nervously.

Holden kind of sulks.  Alyssa notices.

INT STUDIO - NIGHT

Holden enters.  Banky's still playing Sega.  Holden sits

next to him.

Holden goes to his drawing table and takes off his coat.

Banky sits there, shocked.  He puts the controller down

and crosses to the drawing table.

Holden starts drawing.  Banky stares at him.  Then he

grabs the pencil out of Holden's hand and shoves him to

the side.  He starts drawing something.

Banky draws a four-way stop.  He illustrates according to

his voice-over.

Banky finishes drawing.  Holden's shaking his head

Holden storms away.  Banky follows.

Holden looks at Banky for a long beat.

Banky stares at him.  Holden stares back.  Banky looks

into Holden's eyes.  Suddenly, he softens a bit.  He

drops his head.

Banky walks away.  Holden watches him go and exits.

INT DINER - NIGHT

Holden and Alyssa sit at a booth.  Alyssa picks through

her food.  Holden looks at the check and pulls money from

his wallet.

She grabs her bag and slides out of the booth.  Holden

watches her, then follows.

A23. Alyssa slides up to the cashier's desk as does

Holden, who offers a puzzled shrug.  Alyssa offers the

'just wait' finger.  The CASHIER turns to her.

It's drizzling outside.  Holden drives.  Alyssa hugs her

painting and pushes her bare feet against the windshield,

making footprints.

Holden stares at her.

Holden stares ahead.  Then he swerves the wheel to the

right.

EXT ROADSIDE - NIGHT

The car pulls to the side of the road.  The rain is a bit

heavier now.

INT CAR - NIGHT

Holden throws the car into park

Holden stares at Alyssa.  She stares back.  Then she gets

out of the car.

EXT ROADSIDE - NIGHT

Holden gets out of the car.  It's raining pretty hard

now.  Alyssa's hitching up the road.  Holden reaches her.

She looks at him, rain drenching the pair.  She shakes

her head ruefully.

She walks away.  Holden stands there, at a loss.  Then he

turns and heads back to his car.

As he reaches the door and turns to look back at her,

Alyssa pounces on him, grabs his face and locks lips with

him, big time.  He drops his keys and embraces her.

And there they stand, by the side of the road, drenched

kissing.

EXT STUDIO - DAY

Banky carries a bag in one arm and pulls out his keys

with the other.  He jams them into the lock, opening the

door.  He picks up the mail on the floor.

INT STUDIO - DAY

He closes the door behind him and shuffles to the

kitchenette, passing by the blanket-covered, slumbering

forms of Holden and Alyssa, who are out cold in each

other's arms.  The place looks a mess - Like a couple of

people were engaged in some tremendous fucking.  Banky is

oblivious.  He sets the bag down on the counter and pulls

out a chocolate milk.  He opens it, sticks a straw into

the top, and begins sipping and sifting through the mail.

He comes to mail that's Holden's and tosses it onto the

couch, near Holden's head.  He looks down at the sleeping

couple, then back at the mail for a couple of beats.

Then he freezes.  He looks down again, and drops his jaw

and his carton of choco.  It hits the floor with a pop.

Holden and Alyssa shoot straight up, eyes struggling to

focus.  They look at one another, then at the

flabbergasted Banky.  Banky blinks.  Then he shuffles

toward the door again and lets himself out.

EXT STREET - DAY

Banky sits on a curb, staring into the distance, Holden

saunters up and sits beside him.  He follows Banky's

gaze.

Across the street, the Catholic High School is letting

out.  Teenage girls clad in uniforms and tight sweaters

smoke, frolic, wait for their bus.

Banky shoots him a glare.  He goes back to staring at the

OC girls.

Banky walks away.  Holden shakes his head.

INT ALYSSA'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

An all-girl gathering. TORY. NICA, DALIA and JANE help

Alyssa finish an issue of 'Idiosyncratic Routine'.  Tory

letters a page.  Nica and Dalia lay-out the artwork.

Dalia drinks wine.  Alyssa paints the cover.

Everyone aww's.  Alyssa buries her face, giggling.

They all cackle.  Alyssa tries to laugh with them.

Dalia stares at Alyssa, suspiciously.

All four Girls stare at Alyssa, a bit horrified.  She

stops painting.

They stare at Alyssa.  Then Dalia gets up.

They exit.  Alyssa looks to Tory and Nica.

INT HOLDEN'S BEDROOM -NIGHT

Holden and Alyssa lie in each other's arms, moonlight

bathing them.  She smokes.

She snuggles into him and closes her eyes.  Holden stares

at the ceiling.

She hits him with her pillow.

THE BIG OL' FALLING-IN-LOVE MONTAGE BEGINS

1) In Holden's Apartment - Alyssa waves in various

directions, shaking her head accordingly.  Then she puts

up her hands to stop.  Cut to Holden, hanging the

picture.  Alyssa gave him.

It hangs at a severely crooked angle.  He looks back to

her and shakes his head 'no'.

2) Holden and Alyssa try to play a video game.  Banky

plays as well.  Holden instructs her in the ways of NHL

'96 (turning her paddle right-side-up, pointing at things

on the screen).  She presses the reset button, over and

over.  Banky gives Holden a 'What the fuck?' look.

Alyssa sticks her tongue at him.

3) At the Video Store - Holden picks up a Disney cartoon

off the shelf.  He goes to show if to Alyssa, who's

reading the back of 'Anything But Dick', an allchick

porno.  An old WOMAN stares at her.  Holden nods to the

old Woman and takes the tape out of Alyssa's hands,

putting it back on the shelf.  He ushers her away.  The

old Woman waits until they're gone and then picks up the

tape herself,

4) Holden carries Alyssa on his shoulders through the

park, her crotch against the back of his neck.  He's

talking. She taps him and he stops and looks up.  She

begins to maneuver around so her crotch is in his face.

He pulls her off and put her down.  She's laughing.  He's

flushed with embarrassment.  The same Old Woman from the

Video store passes by with her husband.  Holden shrugs.

5) In Holden's Apartment again - Alyssa again with the

waving, then putting up her hands to stop.  Cut to Holden

again, this time with the painting hung completely upside

down.  He looks at it, then offers her a bewildered gaze.

6) In the Office Banky comes to his drawing table.  There

are penciled pages on it with a note that says "Hanging

out with Alyssa today.  Holden".  Banky crumples it up

and throws it across the room.

7) In Holden's Apartment - Alyssa waves this way, then

that way, then puts up her hands frantically to stop.

She settles back against the wall, a satisfied smile

crawling across her face, and closes her eyes.  We pull

back to reveal Holden on his knees in front of her,

eating her out (no, we don't see anything!).

INT OFFICE - DAY

Holden draws.  A book is thrown in front of him.  He

looks up.  Banky stands there.

Holden looks down at that book.  It's the Nineteen Eighty

Eight yearbook from Middletown North.  He shakes his head

at Banky and flips it open.

On the page is Alyssa's Senior year photo.  Under her

name is another name in quotes that says 'Finger Cuffs'.

CUT TO COHEE LUNDON.  In the PARKING LOT of FOOD CITY,

addressing the camera.

BACK IN THE OFFICE - Holden stares at Banky.

Holden grabs Banky and pins him against the wall.

He releases Banky.  Banky brushes himself off.

Banky runs to the open door.

The downstairs door slams.  Banky makes a muscle, then

feels it.

INT TOWER RECORDS - DAY

Holden and Hooper peruse laser discs.

Hooper lets our a faux-shock shriek.

Again, even louder, hands slapped against his cheeks.

A young BLACK KID approaches Hooper, holding a comic

book.

The Kid offers Holden an angry look.  Hooper gives him

back his comic.

The Kid leaves, Hooper slips back into his real voice.

Hooper trots off, Holden glances at the disc in his

hands.  Pictured on it are two gorgeous chicks, barely

clad, making out.  The title is 'Men Suck.. and so do

Girls - All XXX Action.'

INT HOCKEY RINK - NIGHT

On the ice, two teams clash, chasing the puck up and

back, checking galore.

In the bleachers, amidst a slew of fans, Alyssa watches

the game with a large degree of enjoyment.  Sitting

beside her, Holden doesn't seem to share her enthusiasm.

ON THE ICE - Things heat up between two opposing PLAYERS.

One snatches the puck away from the other and skates off.

The other Player gives chase.

Alyssa's very into the game.  Holden shakes his head

ON THE ICE - The Player giving chase slashes the Player

with the puck.

Alyssa jumps to her feet.

ON THE ICE - The Players skid into the corner where

Player One checks Player Two into the boards, hard.

Player Two scrambles to his feet and throws down his

gloves.

The crowd around Alyssa and Holden go wild.

ON THE ICE - The Players square off.  Player Two pulls

Player One's helmet off and punches him in the face.

Holden looks as if he'd Like to do the same to his

companion.  Alyssa's into the game.

ON THE ICE - Player Two yanks at Player One's jersey and

gut punches him.  Alyssa seems oblivious to Holden's

anger, so enthralled with the action is she.

ON THE ICE - Player One staggers a bit, then quickly

rights his jersey and lunges at Player Two, landing a

barrage of his own punches.  Blood sprays across the ice.

Holden's face is reeeeeaaaally sour looking.  Alyssa's

still in the game.

ON THE ICE - Player One delivers the kill shot, slamming

his fist into Player Two's nose.  The blood shoots out

like a geyser, and Two goes down hard.

Holden stares at Alyssa, flabbergasted.  The crowd around

them stares not at the fight on the ice, but the fight in

their midst, shocked.  Alyssa fumes.

She storms away.  Holden chases after her.  The Bystander

watches them go.

INT RINK LOBBY / EXT PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Alyssa marches quickly, pulling on her coat.  Holden

catches up to her.  We track with them our into the

parking lot.

She touches his face.  He pulls back.  She stares at him,

hurt and pissed.

Holden's eyes are downcast.  Alyssa waits for a response.

Holden skulks off.  Alyssa stares after him, and then

starts kicking and punching a car beside her, finally

slumping to the ground.  She cries.

INT STUDIO - DUSK

Holden sits on the couch, alone in the dark.  The door

opens and Banky enters.  He stands there, sizing up

Holden's mood.

Holden nods.  Banky nods back.  He stands there for a

beat.  Then he sits beside Holden.  He opens his arms.

Holden shifts into his friend's embrace and begins crying

on his shoulder.  Banky pats his back.  Pull back on a

man in pain and the comfort of a friend.

INT DINER - NIGHT

Holden sits alone at a booth.  He stirs his iced tea.

Holden looks up.  JAY and SILENT BOB stand above him.

Holden offers a half-smile.  The pair slide into the

booth.

Holden pulls an envelope out of his jacket and tosses it

to Jay.  Jay opens it and pulls out a thick wad of bills,

along with the latest issue of 'BLUNTMAN and CHRONIC.'

Silent Bob thumbs through the comic.  Jay looks over his

shoulder, as he begins rolling a joint.

A WAITRESS joins them.

Holden rubs his eyes.

The Waitress returns with the order.

The Waitress stares wide-eyed and offended at Jay.

Holden looks out the window.  Jay continues to roll his

joint.  There's silence. Then...

Holden's head snaps forward.  He stares, wide-eyed at

Silent Bob.

Holden stares, shocked.  He looks to Jay, who's still

rolling his joint.

Jay and Holden look at him.  Silent Bob busts a move with

his hands.

Silent Bob backhands him.  Jay raises his fist as if to

strike.

Everyone's silent Silent Bob lights a cigarette.

They sit there for a beat.  Jay pockets the rest of his

dime-bag.

Exit Jay and Silent Bob.  Holden remains in the booth,

thinking.

MONTAGE - AN UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE

1) Holden sits at his drawing table, tapping his pencil

up and down.

2)Alyssa sits in a club, getting talked at by some women.

She's not present in the conversation.

3) Banky meets with Sloss at a restaurant Sloss shakes

the contracts at him, and Banky makes the "I know, I

know," face.

4) Holden stares at the picture Alyssa gave him.

5) Alyssa with her ear to the phone.  She hangs up,

angrily.

6) Holden sits in the park that he and Alyssa walked

through.  He's staring at Alyssa's yearbook picture.  He

closes the book and sighs.  Then, an idea hits him.  He

jumps up and dashes out of the park.

INT STUDIO - NIGHT

Banky and Alyssa sit on the couch.  Holden paces in front

of them.

Holden grabs him, kisses him full on the lips, and pushes

him back onto the couch Alyssa reacts.  Banky - wide-eyed

and speechless - looks away.

He grabs a chair from the side of the room.

Alyssa's face drops.  She subtly shakes her head.

The room is silent.  Holden Lights a cigarette.  Banky's

eyes nearly bug.   Alyssa's  head drops.

Banky stares forward, wide-eyed.  He leans back into the

couch and lets out a huge sigh.  Then shrugs.

Holden smiles at his friend.  Then he looks at Alyssa.

Alyssa looks at him, sadly.

Holden reacts, shocked Banky lets out a sigh of relief.

Holden moves to her side of the couch.

A tear rolls down her cheek She looks at him, sadly, and

touches his face.

She releases him, then slaps him.

Alyssa storms away, stopping briefly to look Banky up and

down.

She walks our of the studio.  The door closes behind her.

Banky and Holden stand there, silently.  Cut to black.

INT COMIC BOOK SHOW - DAY

It's ONE YEAR later.  We're at another show, not unlike

the one from the opening.

A copy of 'Bluntman and Chronic' enters the frame.  The

cover reads 'The Death Chronic', complete with a

corresponding drawing.

Banky sits at his own signing table.  Behind him hangs a

banner that reads 'BANKY EDWARDS - CREATOR Of BABY DAVE'.

A small line is formed in front of him.  He talks with a

FAN.

Banky locks eyes with someone OC.  His expression

softens.

Holden leans against a wall on the far side of the room.

He smiles at Banky.  Banky smiles back, and sort of nods.

Holden holds up a copy of Banky's new solo comic.  He

points to it and gives a thumbs up.

Banky smiles to OC.

Banky looks in another direction, OC.  He looks at Holden

and points to it.   Holden looks in the same direction,

and then looks back at Banky and nods.

Banky looks at Holden for a beat.  Then he brings his

pointer fingers together,  mimicing Holden's 'shared

moment' gesture.

Holden shrugs slightly, then crosses his fingers - as if

to say 'hopefully'.

Banky sort of smiles at the OC Holden.  Then he offers

his own thumbs up - as to say 'good luck'.

Holden smiles back, nods 'bye', and walks off.

The Fan Leaves, but Banky is watching Holden go.

Alyssa sits at a separate signing table, with a line in

front of her.  A WOMAN behind her.  Alyssa dashes off

signatures in the copies of her comic.

The Woman stands and rubs her shoulders.

The Woman heads off.  Alyssa starts rummaging through her

bag.

A comic book drops on the table in front of her.   It's a

comic book called 'Chasing Amy'.

She leafs through it, not looking up.

Alyssa looks up sharply.

Holden stands before her, smiling.

Alyssa leafs through it.  Her eyes get somewhat misty.

They look at each other for a beat

They look at each other for a beat.

He walks away.  A few steps away, he turns and waves

again.  She waves back.  And then he starts moving

through the thrall of fan-boys.

The Woman returns with coffee.  She follows Alyssa's

gaze.

She watches him go for another beat, then.

And as they fall into conversation, the show goes on.

