FADE IN. BEGIN TITLE SEQUENCE.

EXT. ST CLOUD'S - TRAIN STATION - DAWN

An establishing shot of the rundown train station on an

overcast morning. There's snow on the station platform. A

train arrives and departs.

Behind the station, at the top of the hill, lies the St.

Cloud's orphanage.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - ORPHANAGE - EARLY MORNING

A man and woman (COUPLE #1) make their way toward the main

entrance of the large brick building.

The couple enters the orphanage, where we hear the sound of

babies.

INT. ORPHANAGE - MORNING

Two nurses, EDNA and ANGELA, chase CHILDREN--a morning

routine.

The camera goes up the stairs with some of the kids.

INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - DAY

We enter an office where DR. LARCH shows couple #1 their

newly adopted son, HOMER, an infant who lies smiling in Dr.

Larch's arms.

We close in on the infant until his face fills the screen.

Dr. Larch hands over the infant to the adopting parents.

Hesitant nods. (They don't look as if they read.)

The parents look with pride at their adopted son.

INT./EXT. ORPHANAGE - DAY

At the front door, Larch and the nurses wave and call good-

bye to Homer, they close the door.

INT./EXT. ORPHANAGE - NIGHT

The same door swings open; it's another night. The same couple

is bringing Homer back. There is concern in their faces as

Nurse Edna lets them in.

INT. BOY'S DIVISION, DOORWAY - NIGHT

Larch is delivering his benediction to the boys.

As he turns, he is startled by Nurse Edna, waiting with couple

#1 and baby Homer.

Larch looks quickly at Homer.

The mother hands over the baby to Larch. Baby Homer lets out

a happy squeal as soon as he's in Larch's arms. The parents

stare in disbelief.

EXT. ORPHANAGE - DAY

Angela and Edna call and wave good-bye to a two-year-old

Homer, leaving with COUPLE #2. Larch stands on the porch and

watches the family head down the hill.

INT. COUPLE #2'S HOME - DAY

Larch bursts into the home of the second couple and lifts a

crying and bruised Homer out of his bed. There is rage in

Larch's eyes as he looks at the couple.

EXT. HILL, ST. CLOUD'S - DAY

Larch carries Homer up the orphanage hill.

INT. DELIVERY ROOM - DAY

The naked belly of a VERY PREGNANT WOMAN.

A tiny hand comes in with a stethoscope and puts it on the

big belly. Young Homer's head, with the stethoscope around

his neck, pops up behind the belly; he closes his eyes as he

concentrates on listening to the sounds of the unborn child.

Larch stops in the doorway, catching sight of Homer. He smiles

faintly.

EXT. COUPLE #3'S HOME - DAY

The door opens to a THIRD COUPLE smiling at us, welcoming

and embracing a sixteen-year-old Homer. Behind them waits

the would-be STEPSISTER--an attractive girl, a little older

then Homer.

INT. STEPSISTER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Homer and the stepsister are in bed together. The parents

burst in on them--the father chasing Homer around and around

the bed, the mother beating her daughter, who covers herself

with a pillow.

EXT. COUPLE #3'S HOME - NIGHT

From her window, the stepsister watches Homer leave the house

carrying his suitcase. Homer looks up at her as he walks to

the street.

EXT. ORPHANAGE - EARLY MORNING

It's after dawn, but still a little dark, as Homer walks to

the orphanage door, suitcase in hand. A HUGELY PREGNANT WOMAN

arrives at the same time. They stand awkwardly next to each

other, waiting for someone to answer the door. The woman is

crying. Homer reaches out and takes her hand.

The woman sniffles; she nods vaguely. The door opens. Nurse

Edna lets the woman in and embraces Homer.

INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - DAY

Larch instructs an older Homer from "Gray's Anatomy." Homer

is bored and looks out the window.

INT. DELIVERY ROOM - DAY

Homer looks adoringly at Dr. Larch as Larch examines ANOTHER

PREGNANT WOMAN. Larch waves Homer over; he places the boy's

hand on the woman's abdomen, to feel the fetus kicking.

INT. OPERATING ROOM - DAY

Larch closes a door quickly behind him (so that Homer doesn't

see the ABORTION PATIENT in the O.R.)

INT. DELIVERY ROOM - DAY

Homer assists Larch in delivering a BABY.

EXT. INCINERATOR - DAY

Homer carries a white enamel pail to the incinerator. He

looks inside the pail; he stops.

Hold on Homer's disgusted expression as he stares at the

contents of the pail.

END TITLE SEQUENCE. FADE OUT. We hear a song playing on an

old phonograph.

INT. DISPENSARY - DAY

We see the song playing on the old phonograph. Dr. Larch is

taking ether. He holds the bottle in one hand, the cone over

his mouth and nose with the other.

SUPER: ST. CLOUD'S, MAINE, MARCH 1943.

When Larch dozes off, his hand loosens its grip on the cone;

the cone falls off his face, and he wakes up. Then he puts

the cone back in place, dripping more ether from the bottle

to the gauze covering the cone.

Pan the dispensary, which also serves as Larch's photo gallery

and bedroom apartment. The ether-bed is separated from the

room by a hospital curtain (the kind on casters). We see the

recording revolving, the glass-encased cabinets of medical

supplies, the old photographs of St. Cloud's.

Homer enters, he stands uncomfortably, watching Larch for a

moment. Then he turns around and walks back into the corridor.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Homer calls out as though he's just coming down the corridor.

INT. DISPENSARY - DAY

Larch wakes up; he shakes off the ether haze. Homer reenters.

Dr. Larch and Homer leave together.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

The *two* doctors walk briskly down the hall, a couple of

professionals.

Homer and Larch split off and disappear into two different

operating rooms. As he goes, Homer mumbles to himself, "Of

use, of use, of use."

INT. OPERATING ROOM - DAY

Larch and Angela are preparing the ether for DOROTHY, a not

visibly pregnant woman. The sounds of labor across the hall

can be heard Over.

Angela puts the cone over Dorothy's mouth and nose; Larch

drips the ether on the cone. A newborn wails in the other

O.R. Over.

INT. DELIVERY ROOM - DAY

Homer has delivered CARLA. A newborn baby is screaming in

Edna's arms. Homer is attending to Carla, who is panting.

Larch pops into the delivery room; he peers at the baby.

Edna shows the baby to Carla, who stares, then turns away.

Larch whispers to Homer.

INT. OPERATING ROOM - DAY

Angela sits with the still-etherized Dorothy while Larch and

Homer confer over a basin containing Dorothy's uterus.

Angela hands Larch a bottle of brown liquid.

Larch wrinkles his nose at the odor.

Larch wets his finger with the stuff, then touches it to his

tongue.

As Homer turns to leave, Larch stops him; he points to the

basin.

Homer stops, annoyed; he picks up the basin and empties the

contents into a white enamel pail.

INT. DINING HALL - AFTERNOON

MISS TITCOMB is teaching math to some distracted boys and

girls in a corner of the dining room. A blackboard on wheels

is a mass of numbers. Homer, passing through the dining room

with the white enamel pail, attracts the attention of BUSTER,

a sixteen-year-old who is picking over a plate of pastries

on a table. Buster immediately goes with Homer.

Homer shakes his head, keeps walking. Buster follows. Dr.

Larch passes close to Buster. Buster makes a face, disgusted.

EXT. INCINERATOR - AFTERNOON

Buster and Homer tramp through the snow toward the

incinerator. Homer still carries the pail.

Buster stands watching as Homer empties the pail into the

incinerator.

INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT

With his head inclined to the giant ear of Larch's phonograph,

FUZZY--six, thin, and pale and looking remarkably like an

embryo--is listening to a recording. He can't hear what Larch

and Homer are saying about him as they construct a humidified

tent over a small hospital bed on wheels. The humidifier is

operated by a car battery.

Larch plucks Fuzzy from in front of the phonograph and zips

him into the breathing tent. Fuzzy smiles. As larch leaves,

MARY AGNES, a pretty but tough-looking teenager, comes into

the dispensary.

Mary Agnes smiles at Homer; then she sticks her tongue out

at him. Homer looks at her impassively, but as the moment

continues his expression suggests his annoyance. Fuzzy starts

to cough; he wheezes as he breathes. Homer leans down; he

peers at Fuzzy through a hole by the zipper of the tent.

Homer examines Mary Agnes' tongue.

Homer is not responding to her come-on. He wheels Fuzzy into

the hall.

INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT

In the girls' bunk room, Nurse Edna is saying prayers. The

girls lie with their palms pressed together on their chests.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - THE HILL - NIGHT

The building of St. Cloud's is silhouetted against the sky.

Carla, the woman we saw deliver the baby, is heading down

the hill alone, she sobs, not looking back.

INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT

In the bunk room again, with Edna and the girls.

INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT

Dr. Larch is reading from Oliver Twist--the death scene of

Bill Sike's dog. The boys listen in horror in their beds.

Homer enters; he walks quietly to his bed in the far corner

of the room, where he starts to undress.

Larch turns out the lights. From the open doorway to the

hall, Larch delivers his nightly benediction.

Larch closes the door, leaving them in the semi-darkness.

One young boy runs into Homer's bed, nervously giggling.

The boys silently agree, Homer among them.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - EARLY MORNING

The girls, led by Mary Agnes, round a corner of the orphanage,

towing a sled piled high with snowballs.

They shriek as the boys suddenly surprise them. Buster throws

two hard snowballs that hit Mary Agnes and CLARA (eight or

nine) before Mary Agnes overwhelms him and repeatedly sticks

his head in the snow. Copperfield, terrified of Mary Agnes,

escapes. Curly misses, then tips over the sled of snowballs

as Clara and the adorable HAZEL (five or six) throw him to

the ground. Fuzzy drops his one snowball; he runs aimlessly

in circles, coughing, as Nurse Edna explodes from a door of

the orphanage.

Fuzzy coughs and wheezes, trying to catch his breath.

A NEW COUPLE comes up the hill. The orphans stop and stare,

brushing snow off themselves, struggling to make themselves

look presentable. Curly is desperate to look his best. Mary

Agnes doesn't bother to pretty herself. She whispers to Clara

and Hazel.

INT. DINING HALL - MORNING

The children are eating breakfast as the would-be parents

walk around the tables, looking over the assembled orphans.

Curly works on his table manners; he forks and eats a piece

of pancake with elegance. Angela and Edna try to make the

couple slow down by the older children, but the couple stop

and stare at the adorable Hazel.

INT. BABY ROOM - MORNING

Larch and Homer are examining the babies. The doctors are

checking the babies' grips, their eyes, ears, and throats.

Angela appears in the doorway.

Angela disappears. Larch looks at the next baby's record

(attached to the bed).

Homer is tired of this game. Larch touches the child's

forehead with his index finger.

The baby starts to cry.

Homer points his finger at the child's forehead like a gun.

Homer is writing the name.

They are interrupted by Copperfield, who comes running from

the corridor.

INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - DAY

Hazel is being fussed over by Edna. Hazel clutches a cardboard

suitcase and a tattered rag doll. Mary Agnes, by far the

oldest, sits on a bed.

Hazel cries harder.

INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - DAY

Homer is in the corridor outside the office, overhearing

Larch's lecture to the couple adopting Hazel.

INT. WINDOW, CORRIDOR - DAY

Homer sees Curly standing all alone by a window in the

corridor; a suitcase is next to him.

Curly shakes his head.

Homer embraces Curly and lifts him up, he grabs the suitcase

and continues down the corridor.

Homer disappears into the boys' bunk room carrying Curly and

his suitcase, leaving the corridor empty.

INT./EXT. ORPHANAGE - DAY

Faces in the windows; the orphans watch Hazel walking across

the snowy lawn with her new parents.

INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT

Edna (with the girls) gives her good-bye blessing to Hazel.

INT./EXT. ORPHANAGE - FRONT DOOR - DAY

The front door opens. The orphans excitedly run outside onto

the green lawn, into the warm weather of spring.

INT. DISPENSARY - MORNING

Angela is singing along with the song on the phonograph, a

more romantic song then before, which rouses Larch from his

ether. He is grumpy, but she sings the song in his ear and

won't give him back the ether cone; he rolls away from her,

but she tickles him and bites his ear, coaxing him into a

more playful mood.

Playfully, she slips out of his embrace.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Homer wheels a tray with glasses of water between the beds.

A DISTRAUGHT PREGNANT WOMAN stops him by her bed.

Homer touches the woman's belly.

Homer cautiously lays his ear against her belly.

She holds Homer's head against her belly; she presses his

face into her. She shuts her eyes. Homer's eyes stare widely.

Dr. Larch stops in the doorway; he watches with concern.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - TRAIN STATION - DAY

Homer at the train station, staring down the empty tracks.

Buster is hanging around with him, kicking a rock.

Homer makes no response. As the train approaches, Homer and

Buster go sit on a loading cart. They see the distraught

woman (no longer pregnant) from Homer's experience of a few

nights ago; she is leaving St. Cloud's without her baby,

waiting for the approaching train. Her face is a mask. The

DISAPPROVING STATIONMASTER gives her a hard look.

Buster is ashamed; he knows he's said the wrong thing.

The slowly moving train has stopped. There are SOLDIERS

leaning out the windows. Buster turns to see Mary Agnes

walking past the train--she's doing her best to look grown-

up, sophisticated. One of the soldiers reaches out and gently

tugs on  her hair. Mary Agnes is enraged; she spits at the

soldier.

Mary Agnes spits at *all* the soldiers.

The soldiers roll up the windows as Mary Agnes improvises

some verbal abuse.

Camera closes on Homer.

INT. DINING HALL - NIGHT

The orphans are watching King Kong, the part when the giant

ape first captures the screaming Fay Wray. Intercut Kong

with the orphans' rapt faces. Homer sits near the front,

mesmerized by the film. Dr. Larch and Angela sit by the

projector; Larch is reading a letter. Fuzzy points to the

screen.

King Kong is undressing Fay Wray in the cave.

Larch shakes the letter in front of Angela.

The film breaks--to huge cries of disappointment from the

orphans. Fuzzy coughs and coughs while Larch fumbles with

the projector. Angela turns on the light while Larch squints

at the broken film. The orphans are chanting, "Kong! Kong!"

Homer gets up and walks to the projector.

Larch abruptly lets go of the film.

Edna comes in; she speaks to Larch, then quickly leaves.

Larch turns to Homer.

Homer shifts his weight to the other foot; aggravated; he

stands there.

Homer and Larch stare at each other.

Homer is also trying to avoid a fight.

Larch can't hide his disappointment.

It is an uneasy peace.

INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT (LATER)

Homer is adjusting Fuzzy's breathing tent as the other boys

climb into bed.

Larch comes in and walks over to Homer and Fuzzy. Larch and

Homer exchange a look.

Homer sits down with 'David Copperfield.' There is quiet

anticipation while Homer readies himself to read.

Larch continues to adjust Fuzzy's breathing tent.

Close on Fuzzy.

As Larch bends over Fuzzy to fix the breathing apparatus,

Fuzzy whispers.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - NIGHT

The orphanage in moonlight. Not a sound.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - MORNING

The children are chasing a ball near the incinerator.

A VERY FRIGHTENED GIRL---not one of the orphans--is lying

next to the incinerator.

Edna kneels by the strange girl, who cringes with fear.

The girl won't speak; when Edna touches the girl's forehead,

she pulls back her hand in alarm.

INT. OPERATING ROOM - MORNING

Edna is holding the head of the frightened young girl. The

girl is feverishly hot and whimpering; she keeps looking at

her feet in the stirrups as if she's an animal caught in a

trap. Larch and Homer stand on either side of her.

The girl shakes her head. The pain stabs her again.

Another stab of pain contorts the girl.

The girl holds her breath while he examines her abdomen;

Homer very delicately examines the girl's abdomen, too.

The girl goes rigid as Larch bends into position.

Homer assists Larch with the speculum.

Homer holds the girl still--she is babbling on and on while

Larch is examining her.

Larch, his wild eye peering into the speculum, makes an

audible gasp from the shock of what he sees inside the girl.

Larch tells Homer to have a look. Larch then whispers

something to Edna; she brings the ether bottle and cone

quickly. Larch starts putting the cone in place, over the

nose and mouth of the frightened girl. Homer bends to the

speculum.

Homer stares into the speculum; he closes his eyes. The girl

is resisting the ether, but her eyelids flutter closed.

Homer has pulled off his surgical mask. He leans over the

scrub sink, splashing cold water on his face.

Homer, furious, leaves the operating room. Edna lifts the

girl's eyelids for Larch so that he can see how well under

the ether she is.

INT. CORRIDOR - MORNING

Homer storms down the hall, then stops, pulling off his white

coat. Angry, pacing, he kicks at nothing.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - GRAVEYARD - EARLY MORNING

Buster and Homer are digging the pit. Larch paces by the

coffin of the 12-year-old girl.

Buster nods, but he's totally bewildered.

Buster doesn't get it. Homer has heard this too many times;

he rolls his eyes.

Homer looks away.

Larch studies him.

EXT./INT. ST. CLOUD'S ROAD - TRUCK CAB - DAY

Buster is driving the old pickup truck, with the shovels and

a wheelbarrow in the back. Larch and Homer are in the cab,

they are being bounced all over the cab by Buster's wild

driving. Larch looks at Homer; he stares at him with a curious

smile.

Larch says nothing. Homer gives him a look.

Buster is distracted; he drives the truck into a ditch and

it bounces around, missing a tree by an inch. He is up on

the road again in a few seconds.

They are all distracted by a luxurious convertible that

overtakes them on the hill to the orphanage. The fast car is

driven by a handsome man in the uniform of the Army Air Corps--

a YOUNG OFFICER. From the passenger seat, a BEAUTIFUL YOUNG

WOMAN smiles at them, rendering them speechless.

EXT. ORPHANAGE DRIVEWAY - DAY

The luxurious convertible (now parked) has drawn all the

orphans to it. The handsome young officer (WALLY) and the

beautiful young woman (CANDY) stand confused by the car;

they are surrounded by the curious orphans, with whom they

are painfully self-conscious. They are overly friendly to

the children as they are anxious of Larch and Homer and Buster

(in their gravedigging attire), who are getting out of the

truck. Nervously, Wally gives the children chocolates.

The kids climb into Wally's car.

Curly tugs on Candy's dress, staring up at her, his face

already smeared with chocolate.

Curly's nose is streaming snot. Candy kneels beside him and

holds her handkerchief to his nose.

Curly tries to talk while she's holding his nose.

The other orphans are dying with envy--Candy is so beautiful.

(Some, like Buster, are torn between Candy and the car.)

Virtually all the orphans have climbed into Wally's car.

Larch, scowling, presents himself to the new couple.

Larch picks up Curly and carries him toward the boys'

division.

INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - DAY

Homer is seated in the desk chair. The impressive couple sit

in front of him.

Wally jumps up to his feet to shake Homer's hand.

Wally sits down. The three sit still for an awkward moment.

Homer writes on a piece of paper. Candy and Wally exchange a

worried look.

Edna pokes her head in the door.

Edna quickly sees that all three of them have misunderstood

her.

Candy and Wally can't conceal how impressed they are with

the young Homer.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Homer walks down the corridor, dressed in his operating gown,

as the door to the O.R. opens and Wally stumbles out,

hurriedly opening a window. Wally breathes deeply to regain

his composure.

Edna comes down the hall with a dirt-stained, crying Curly

who's covering one eye.

Homer nods to Edna, who is marching off with Curly. Wally

smiles at Homer.

Wally hears Homer's facetiousness--how tired he is of his

heart condition.

Homer appreciates the joke.

The door to the operating room that Wally exited opens into

the corridor; Candy is being wheeled out on a gurney by Larch

and Angela. Wally rushes to Candy's side. Homer follows

slowly. Candy is groggy, coming out of the ether.

They walk Candy on her gurney. Homer looks after them.

Larch wheels Candy behind a curtain.

Larch has a different tone of voice when he speaks to Wally.

Wally is left alone in the corridor.

INT. BOYS' DIVISION - DAY

Cranked at three-quarters, Fuzzy sits in bed, wheezing and

coughing. He's drawing with great intensity, using crayons

on a piece of paper held by a clipboard. Homer sits on the

end of Fuzzy's bed, cleaning up Steerforth. Homer pauses to

look out of the window; he sees Wally, dashing and spotless

in his uniform beside his flashy car. A life Homer might

have had crosses his face.

Homer turns to Fuzzy, who holds up his picture--a big pumpkin

with a jack-o-lantern face.

Homer looks at Fuzzy; his little body is working hard just

to breathe.

Fuzzy coughs and coughs.

Homer looks out the window at Wally again. His decision forms.

EXT. ORPHANAGE DRIVEWAY - DAY

Homer approaches the flashy car, where Wally is still pacing.

An awkward silence, which Homer covers by examining the car.

Homer nods, but he has no idea where Cape Kenneth is.

Wally nods.

INT. STAIRWAY/CORRIDOR - DAY

Homer runs up the stairs, two steps at a time; he races into

a corridor at full speed, exhilarated. Suddenly Dr. Larch

appears in front of him. Homer stops abruptly, out of breath,

unable to speak.

INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - DAY

As Homer stands guiltily, Larch rifles through an X-ray file,

holding various X rays up to the lit screen. He quickly finds

the one he's looking for, attaching it briefly to the screen

for a confirming look--a heart X ray, which Larch waves at

Homer as he talks.

Larch hands Homer the heart X ray.

Camera closes on Homer with the X ray.

INT. KITCHEN - LATE AFTERNOON

Buster and Mary Agnes are serving the evening meal while

Larch rails at Angela and Edna, who are helping Buster and

Mary Agnes. The sound of children in the dining hall is

intermittent and chaotic.

Camera closes on Larch, fighting tears.

INT. BOYS' DIVISION - AFTERNOON

Homer is packing his things--we see the heart X ray, and

some photos of Larch and Edna and Angela.

Larch approaches Homer with a small bundle of clothes.

Homer is grateful and ashamed. Before he can speak, Edna is

there--a wad of bills in her hand. She tries to put the money

in his pocket; when he refuses it, she simply puts the money

in his open suitcase, stuffing the bills under his clothes.

Larch and Edna retreat from him, humbly, as if they were his

servants.

EXT. DRIVEWAY - AFTERNOON

As Homer puts his stuff in the truck of Wally's car, Angela

can't resist touching his face. She is too upset to speak.

From a window, Larch is watching the departure. He sees Homer

saying goodbye to the children, embracing them.

From another window, Fuzzy just stares. (Of course he's

coughing.)

We see Wally carrying Candy to the car.

She speaks to Homer, touching his sleeve, like a sleepy

person, as Wally puts her gently in the backseat.

Homer gets in the passenger seat beside Wally, who starts

the car; suddenly there is Curly. Homer can't look at Curly,

who looks betrayed. Edna picks up Curly and carries him to

the passenger-side window. Curly is sobbing.

He can't finish what he has to say. Edna kisses him good-

bye.

From the window, Larch watches the car leave.

Buster, whittling a stick, isn't watching.

INT./EXT. WALLY'S CAR - ON THE ROAD - AFTERNOON

There is quiet as the journey gets underway. Wally keeps

glancing at Candy in the rear-view mirror; she seems distant,

lost in thought. Homer is taking everything in--the speed,

the road, the wind in his face.

INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT

Angela speaks to the boys.

INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT

In the girls' washroom, in front of the mirror by the row of

sinks, Mary Agnes is repeatedly slapping her face. Angela's

benediction to the boys plays Over this scene of violent

self-abuse. Except for the sound of the slaps. Mary Agnes

doesn't make a sound.

INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT

On his bed, Larch is taking ether. We hear the refrain from

the boys in the bunk room Over.

INT. WALLY'S CAR - NIGHT

The radio is playing. Candy is lying down, her knees drawn

up, in the backseat; she appears to be asleep, oblivious to

Homer and Wally's conversation.

Candy's eyes are open but her voice is groggy.

Homer looks back at Candy. Her eyes close.

Candy's eyes snap open and she sits up a little.

Candy seems irritated with Wally. Homer tries to engage her.

Homer shakes his head, smiles.

EXT./INT. ROADSIDE/CAR - NIGHT

The car is parked at the side of the road. Wally is half-

hidden behind a tree. Candy and Homer are left alone in the

car; there's an awkward silence as Homer pretends not to

hear Wally's excessive peeing. Suddenly Candy starts to sob.

Homer is a doctor--he's used to postabortion reactions.

He doesn't, really. Wally returns. Wally leans over Candy to

hug her.

Candy pounds on his chest with her fists.

Wally backs away. Candy sobs uncontrollably.

Wally signals to Homer to get out of the car.

Later, Wally and Homer stand outside the car, overhearing

Candy's weeping. Homer is smoking nervously.

Wally looks at Homer, who takes a nervous drag on his

cigarette.

Homer looks at Wally; he sees the authority in his eyes.

Homer drops his cigarette and puts it out with his foot.

They notice that Candy has stopped crying. Wally finds Candy

asleep in the backseat.

EXT. WALLY'S CAR - ON THE ROAD - LATE AT NIGHT

The lone car on the road. Snatches of war news from the radio

are the only sound as the headlights illuminate the dark

highway.

EXT. COAST OF MAINE - MORNING

The car is parked, with Homer sleeping in it alone. The sounds

of the ocean increase as Homer opens his eyes. Homer gets

out of the car and walks toward the beach, enchanted. There

it is: his first view ever of an ocean, the horizon, the sun

glimmering on the water. Candy is lying on a blanket in the

sand. Wally is throwing rocks in the water. Homer takes it

all in. When Candy calls for him, Homer walks up to her.

A football comes flying through the air toward Homer; it

bounces off his chest. Wally laughs.

Homer throws the football; it's clear he's never thrown one

before.

Homer runs over to Wally, who proceeds to show him how to

pass the ball. Snatches of his instruction drift to Candy,

who closes her eyes. "Put your fingers on the laces--no, it

rests in your palm, like this! You want the laces up--yes,

like that!"

EXT. COAST OF MAINE - DAY (LATER)

Homer and Wally sit on the beach a short distance from Candy's

blanket. She appears to be asleep. Wally looks in her

direction before he speaks to Homer.

Wally draws a crude map in the sand.

On Candy's face: she's not asleep; she's listening.

Homer looks at Wally, thoughtfully.

Homer is shocked; he looks back at Candy, lowers his voice.

Wally nods; he also gives a look in Candy's direction before

he responds.

Homer's smile suggests that he's impressed, but that he

wouldn't have Wally's enthusiasm for the task. Wally laughs

and puts his hand on Homer's shoulder.

EXT. CAPE KENNETH - LOBSTER POUND - AFTERNOON

The car is parked at a lobster pound. Homer sits in the car

watching Wally carrying Candy's bag to the door. Candy stands

outside the car; she shakes Homer's hand.

Candy turns and heads toward the house to catch up with Wally.

A lobsterman in his boat is approaching the dock. It's RAY,

Candy's father. Candy waves. "Hi, Daddy!" Homer glances at

Candy and Wally on the dock, kissing good-bye.

EXT. OCEAN VIEW - WORTHINGTON HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Wally drives up to the Worthington house; he gets out of the

car. Homer sits in the car, admiring the beautiful farmhouse.

INT. WORTHINGTON HOUSE - WALLY'S BEDROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Homer as never seen such a room: the sports trophies, the

photos of athletic teams, and of Candy with Wally. Model

airplanes are everywhere. Mrs. Worthington's voice comes

from the hall.

She appears in the doorway of Wally's room. Mrs. Worthington

(OLIVE) is an elegant, fiftyish New Englander, as handsome

as Wally, but more reserved. She is surprised to see Homer.

Wally is taking his uniform off as he speaks, just dropping

it on the floor as he quickly puts on some farm clothes.

Homer has never met anyone like her.

Mrs. Worthington starts picking up her son's uniform from

the floor. She is politely curious about Homer.

Homer looks confused; he seems to have forgotten about the

alleged wedding. Wally puts his arm around Homer, urging him

into the hall.

Homer is embarrassed, but Olive is obdurately well-mannered.

Wally calls to her as he pushes Homer down the hall.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - DUSK

Homer and Wally get out of the jeep at the cider house, a

barnlike building with adjacent sheds and, behind it, line

after line of trees--the apple orchards.

Homer sees an outdoor shower where THREE BLACK MEN are

showering. It is a wooden stall that leaves the shower's

occupants visible above and below their midsections. A FOURTH

BLACK MAN is caught naked, running behind the cider house

and out of sight as he wraps a towel around himself.

Homer wonders what that means as Wally reaches for the door

of the cider house. Before Wally can knock, a pretty young

black girl, ROSE ROSE, bumps open the screen door with her

hip and throws a bucket of water in the grass--almost hitting

Homer and Wally.

This gets the attention of the men on their way from the

showers. They walk over, towels around their waists.

The screen door swings open and shut again, startling them

all, as MR. ROSE comes out of the cider house.

Grinning, Mr. Rose shakes Wally's hand. Rose Rose goes back

inside the cider house as Mr. Rose shakes Homer's hand. Homer

introduces himself.

Mr. Rose looks briefly at the men, who wait for his reaction.

Wally slaps Homer on the back; he goes inside the cider house

to help Rose Rose with the plumbing.

Homer looks at Mr. Rose for instructions. Mr. Rose stares

back at him with his enigmatic smile.

Homer looks at Mr. Rose with an uncomprehending expression.

Homer thinks that over.

Later, Homer is cleaning out the shed.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - EVENING

The pickers all sit down to supper around a picnic table.

Homer with Mr. Rose, Rose Rose, and the other black pickers.

Mr. Rose takes an apple from a bowl on the table. Then he

pulls out a knife and opens it in one fluid motion; he's so

fast, the knife seems to come out of nowhere. He begins to

peel the apple. Homer eyes Mr. Rose, but Mr. Rose's focus is

riveted to his apple and the long, perfect strand of peel

dangling from it.

Peaches breaks the awkward silence.

Homer decides to stop. Another silence.

There are some disrespectful suggestions from the pickers

concerning what his heroism might have been.

Muddy scowls at Homer, but he smiles at Mr. Rose.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

Homer unpacks his suitcase. (His bed should be nearest Muddy's

and Mr. Rose's.) Jack lies on his bed, smoking. Muddy, also

smoking, is sitting on his bed, sharpening a knife. Hero and

Peaches are playing cards on one of their beds. Mr. Rose is

finishing shaving. Rose Rose watches Homer unpack.

He holds up the X ray, in order to show her.

Rose Rose picks up the book that Homer has put on the bed.

She studies the cover; it's "Great Expectations" by Charles

Dickens. She puts it down, restlessly.

Everybody laughs, except Muddy.

Finished unpacking, Homer sits on his bed; he picks up "Great

Expectations" and begins to read. Rose Rose sits down next

to him, watching him read. Homer notices her interest.

Homer smiles politely and goes back to his book. Rose Rose

keeps looking over his shoulder at the pages.

Homer looks around at the pickers lying in their beds,

smoking, listening. (Like bedtime stories at the orphanage,

he thinks; however, the picker's attitude is suspicious,

reserved.)

Homer looks up; there's no response.

Some muttering, some giggling, mostly silence. Rose Rose

wants more, but suddenly Jack jumps out of bed and stomps to

the kitchen end of the cider house, where a piece of paper

is tacked to the wall. Jack is talking to Homer all the way.

Jack points at the piece of paper. Homer gets up and looks

at it.

All the men groan--Jack swears and Peaches laughs.

All the smokers laugh and cough in their beds.

Rose Rose stomps back to her bed. Her father absently snaps

his towel.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT (LATER)

Everybody is asleep, except Homer. He is staring at the

ceiling in the quiet semi-darkness, the book lying on his

chest.

INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT

Dr. Larch is standing in the doorway to the boys' room; he

closes the door.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

Homer, on his bed, closes his eyes.

INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT

Larch lies in bed with his eyes open. (No ether.)

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - NIGHT

The cider house and the apple orchard in the moonlight.

EXT. ORCHARDS - MORNING

Wally in his farm clothes at the wheel of the Jeep--he is

racing through the orchards, dodging trees, with Homer in

the passenger seat, hanging on for dear life.

Homer is excited as Wally weaves among the trees--faster and

faster.

Wally brakes hard. The Jeep comes to a stop in the packing-

house area.

Candy has been waiting on the loading platform. The pickers

are working in the background.

She pulls an apple branch, with an apple to two, out of the

vehicle's grille--or else the branch is wedged in the front -

bumper or headlight area. Candy playfully starts poking Wally

with the branch.

Wally gets the apple branch away from Candy. He pins her

arms at her sides--he hugs her, kisses her. She doesn't

struggle.

They all laugh. Homer observes the happy couple.

EXT. ORCHARDS - DAY

Homer is walking with Wally and Candy. The orchards are

beautiful.

EXT. PACKING HOUSE - MORNING

Much activity: the pickers are unloading apple crates from a

full flatbed trailer. An angry-looking VERNON gives Homer an

evil glare. Homer spills some apples lifting the crate to

the loading platform.

Mr. Rose takes Homer aside.

Wally, in full uniform, appears from inside the packing house;

he calls for Homer.

Homer smiles are runs toward Wally.

INT./EXT. PACKING HOUSE - MORNING

Homer and Wally walk through the packing house, where the

HEFTY, LOUD WOMEN sort through the apples rolling by on the

conveyor tracks. Wally snatches an apple from one of them,

giving it to Homer.

Before Homer can answer, the women interrupt.

Wally makes an effort to introduce Homer, but he's

interrupted.

Wally puts his hand to his heart.

As the women are left behind giggling, Wally continues talking

to Homer.

Homer shakes his head. Wally stops walking; they both stop.

Homer is unfamiliar with this kind of kidding around; at

first he is startled, but then he laughs. Wally laughs, too.

They shake hands.

Mr. Rose calls out to Homer from the tractor. The pickers

are impatiently waiting for him on the flatbed; they're going

back to the orchard. Homer has to run to catch up to them.

He jumps on the flatbed; he sees Wally waving good-bye.

EXT. ORCHARDS - DAY

High up in a tall tree on a couple of ladders, Mr. Rose and

Homer are picking side by side. Mr. Rose is picking with

high-speed perfection, but Homer is slower and fumbling--he

drops an occasional apple to the ground.

Homer nods; he picks more carefully, with more concentration.

Homer can see over the apple mart parking lot from the top

of the tree. He can see the driveway of the Worthington house,

where Candy and Olive are saying a tearful good-bye to Wally.

Distracted, Homer drops another couple of apples, which Mr.

Rose observes with a wry smile.

INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - DAY

Larch is doing something at his desk when Angela comes in.

Larch stares at Angela, who holds a letter.

INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Dr. Larch stands in front of a mechanical drawing easel. He

works intently with a calligraphic pen, but we don't see

what he's working on. Angela and Edna sit at the desk; they're

looking over the letter.

Larch puts down the pen, comes around the easel, opens a

drawer in a filing cabinet, and hands Edna a folder containing

a few cleanly typed pages. Larch returns to the easel, to

his painstaking work. Edna opens the file; as she and Angela

read the contents, Larch recites from memory as he works.

Edna and Angela think this over.

Larch turns the easel around. Attached is a parchment headed:

"HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL"--it's a diploma-in-progress.

The women are shocked, awed.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE, ROOF - NIGHT

Homer stands in front of a ladder that leans against the

cider house; he starts to climb up, drawn by the murmuring

voices, the soft laughter.

Homer arrives at the top and sees everyone sitting on a long

plank, a bench attached to the apex of the roof--obviously a

popular spot.

No one moves.

Peaches slides over and Homer sits down.

The others laugh.

More laughter; Homer smiles, enjoying the teasing.

Rose Rose is being physically affectionate with her father--

lightly punching his arm, rubbing the top of his head.

They all look up, imagining that. Homer more than the others.

Rose Rose, looking thoughtful, rests her head on her father's

shoulder. They are completely natural together.

EXT. CAPE KENNETH - APPLE MART - DAY

Homer and the pickers are loading crates of apples into a

shipping truck. Olive and Candy are consulting some papers

(the shipping tally) on a clipboard; Mr. Rose is standing

beside them.

She catches Homer's eye; he smiles, then joins them. Mr.

Rose puts his arm around him.

Olive is looking over the rest of the picking crew.

He means Jack, who gives Olive and Candy and Mr. Rose a

furtive look. Olive smiles at Rose Rose, who comes up to her

and Candy. Olive touches Rose Rose with affection.

Candy takes Rose Rose by the shoulders and turns her around.

Rose Rose is enjoying this.

He starts leading his daughter away.

Olive waves good-bye as she moves toward her car. Candy turns

to Homer.

Homer has the hardest time looking at Candy.

Homer shakes his head. He looks at the tractor and the empty

trailer. Mr. Rose and the pickers are just watching them.

Homer looks toward the pickers sitting on the flatbed when

he hears the tractor start. Candy follows his gaze.

Mr. Rose gestures for Muddy to drive off; the tractor trailer

pulls away.

Homer has to run to catch up.

He jumps on the back of the departing flatbed between Mr.

Rose and Rose Rose, as Candy watches him.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - DUSK

An anxious-looking WHITE PLUMBER is fixing the kitchen sink

while the pickers (in their towels) stand around and watch.

Homer is putting on his best shirt. Peaches admires the shirt

as Rose Rose cooks the night's supper on the wood stove.

The pickers all look at Homer, who looks guilty as he leaves.

EXT. INLAND ROAD - DUSK

Homer pedals a bicycle down a dirt road.

EXT. LOBSTER POUND - DUSK

Ray holds a lobster up to the camera. We see the old-fashioned

wooden pens, floating dockside.

Homer looks uncertain.

EXT. GANGPLANK, DOCK - DUSK

Homer and Ray and Candy go up the gangplank from the dock to

the lobster pound.

Later, through the window of the lobster pound, we see them

eating lobster around a kitchen table. Laughter and some

unclear dialogue drift to us.

EXT./INT. CAPE KENNETH/WALLY'S CAR - NIGHT

With the bicycle stowed in the trunk, Candy is driving Homer

back to the cider house. They pass a drive-in movie theatre,

the marquee announcing "CLOSED FOR THE SEASON." Homer stares

in awe at the giant blank screen.

Candy looks at him; he isn't joking.

Candy laughs.

Homer laughs a little self-consciously; around her, he feels

like he's *still* a kid.

INT. DINING HALL - EARLY MORNING

At one table, the children are happily eating apples; a few

of the kids are stuffing apples from a big bowl into their

pockets. At another table, Larch, Edna, and Angela sit around

an open packing crate of apples. Larch takes a bite from an

apple and spits it out. Angela takes the apple out of his

hand.

Angela hands him another apple.

Angela gives him a critical look as Larch takes a bite out

of the new apple.

Both Edna and Angela glower at him.

Larch angrily tosses the half-eaten apple into the garbage.

Larch stares into space, depressed. Then he examines the

crate and finds the mailing label that says "OCEAN VIEW

ORCHARDS--CAPE KENNETH, MAINE." He rips it off, holds it up

triumphantly.

Larch storms out of the room.

INT. CAPE KENNETH - MOVIE THEATRE - NIGHT

A newsreel from the war is playing on the screen--soldiers

marching, smiling, waving to the camera. Homer and Candy sit

together watching. Homer is completely fascinated; Candy

watches Homer as much as the news. Her expression changes

when the newsreel cuts to footage from an air raid.

EXT. CAPE KENNETH - MOVIE THEATRE - NIGHT

Candy and Homer walk out of the theatre, under the marquee

and past the poster for "Wuthering Heights."

Candy makes a face, but in good fun.

Homer is embarrassed; he ducks the question.

Homer smiles and shakes his head; Candy starts to laugh.

Homer smiles; he knows she's teasing him, and he likes it.

Candy pushes him playfully. They're both having a good time,

*too* good a time.

EXT. ORCHARDS - DAY

Homer is picking apples in a big tree; Rose Rose is on a

ladder in the tree right beside him. She's picking about

twice as fast as he is, and he keeps dropping his apples. In

another tree, Muddy is watching.

From the surrounding trees, the other pickers laugh.

In adjacent trees, both Peaches and Hero are picking apples;

they can hear Homer and Rose Rose, too. (So can Mr. Rose.)

The men *oooh* and *aaah* at Homer's announcement--Mr. Rose,

too.

Camera closes on Homer's face; he keeps picking.

INT. ST. CLOUD'S - DINING HALL - EVENING

Edna and Angela face the Board of Trustees around a table.

Larch circles the table as everyone reads the contents of a

folder. Larch has provided a copy for each member. The three

elderly gentlemen on the Board don't speak; they just nod

their heads to everything Dr. Holtz or Mrs. Goodhall says.

Suddenly Steerforth bursts through the door, having been

pushed from behind by Mary Agnes. The two stop when they see

what's going on--not to mention Larch's stern expression.

They back out. Mary Agnes winking at Dr. Holtz before the

door closes. Mrs. Goodhall is ready to continue.

The three elderly gentlemen repeat the name.

INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT

A song plays on the old phonograph as a happy Larch and Angela

dance. Edna interrupts them.

This causes Larch to take the needle off the record.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - RAINY DAY

The rain beats down on Olive's car. Homer gets soaking wet

as he leans in to talk to Candy, who's behind the wheel. Mr.

Rose calls to Homer from the doorway of the mill room.

INT. MILL ROOM - RAINY DAY

Mr. Rose is instructing Homer as they stand bottling cider

in their yellow slickers and rubber boots. Rose Rose is hosing

down the pressboards; Muddy and Hero and Peaches are operating

the grinder and the press. Jack is stirring the vat. In a

defiant, contemptuous way, Jack keeps flicking the ash of

his cigarette into the vat. This make everyone uncomfortable;

only Mr. Rose doesn't appear to notice.

Everyone but Jack laughs. He takes a last drag on his

cigarette, then deliberately drops it into the vat.

Jack looks for a translation from the other men, who are

nervous.

Jack pulls a knife on Mr. Rose.

We never see Mr. Rose's knife. We see the men circle each

other: Jack takes a swipe at Mr. Rose's head--then he steps

back, his yellow slicker slashed open. His slicker is opened

up, right up the middle. His shirt underneath the slicker is

slashed open, too--he feels his bare chest and stomach,

feeling for the cut. But there's no cut--Jack's not bleeding,

he's not even scratched. Just his clothes have been slashed.

Muddy turns Jack around and views his slashed clothes.

Jack starts to undress for the vat.

Mr. Rose ushers Homer and Rose Rose outside.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - RAINY DAY

Mr. Rose has cut his own hand in the fight. Homer's

professionalism if offended to watch Rose Rose's amateurish

efforts to stitch up her father's wound, but clearly this

isn't the first time she's done it.

Homer can't bear to watch Rose Rose at work with the needle.

Homer winces at the stitching.

INT. WALLY'S CAR - DRIVE-IN THEATRE - EARLY EVENING

Wally's car comes bouncing along the ditches of the closed

drive-in. Homer is at the wheel; Candy calls out some driving

instructions. The car comes to a stop next to a speakerpost.

Candy leans out; she grabs the speaker and hangs it on the

window. Homer sits back and drapes his arms out the window

and over the seat. He feels great.

Homer looks up at the giant movie screen.

Homer stares at Candy in disbelief.

Candy looks at him for a moment.

Candy is moved. Homer feels exposed; he tries to change the

mood by making light of what he's said.

Candy laughs.

Homer laughs.

At the mention of Wally they both look a little self-

conscious.

Candy looks at Homer.

Candy scrunches down in her seat; Homer imitates her. Homer

is focused on the giant screen.

Homer's expression changes from exhilarated to guilty. He

leans back in his seat and looks straight ahead at the screen.

Candy tentatively leans her head on his shoulder. Homer looks

afraid to breathe.

From behind, with her head on his shoulder, they look like a

normal couple. We track in toward the huge screen until we

see only the screen. There are shadows on the black screen.

Suddenly the movie "King Kong" appears.

INT. DINING HALL - NIGHT

"King Kong" is playing against the bare, white wall. Fuzzy

is very weak, but he smiles at the sight of the love-struck

Kong holding the screaming Fay Wray in his giant hand. Dr.

Larch runs the projector; he sits close beside Fuzzy. When

the film breaks in the predictable place, Fuzzy makes no

protest. Dr. Larch looks at Fuzzy, who has stopped breathing;

his eyes are closed.

They are alone in the dining hall. Larch has wheeled in Fuzzy

for a private viewing.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - GRAVEYARD - MORNING

Buster helps Larch lower the small coffin into the grave.

The tiny gravestone says "F.S."

INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT

The boys in their beds listen to Buster inventing Fuzzy's

"family."

INT. ST. CLOUD'S - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Larch leans against the wall, covering his eyes, overhearing

the boys.

Larch pauses; he waits to see if they believe this.

Larch almost breaks with a sudden sharp breath.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - MORNING

As the men sit at the picnic table eating their cornbread,

Rose Rose pours coffee. A jeep comes down the orchard road

toward them. It's Olive. Mr. Rose leads the "Good mornin',

Mrs. Worthin'ton!" greeting. Olive has an armful of clothing

and a fairly sizable package; she brings the latter over to

Homer.

Homer shakes the package; he puts the package beside the

table, unopened. Olive turns to Rose Rose.

Mr. Rose watches Rose Rose and Olive disappear into the cider

house. The other men view Homer's package with curiosity,

especially Peaches.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - LATE AT NIGHT

Homer lies awake in bed; everyone else is asleep. Homer pulls

the package out from under his bed, opening it just enough

to see what it is; then he shoves it back under his bed.

EXT. OCEAN/BEACH - DUSK

The beach at sunset. Candy and Homer, dressed for cooler

weather, are alone at the water's edge. From a paper bag,

Candy is scattering some small, brightly colored pieces of

broken glass.

She finds and old piece of glass among the stones and shells

at the high-tide mark.

Candy holds up a piece of glass to the sun for Homer to look

at. The ocean is a gray-green color, the glass a paler shade

of green.

She rubs the smooth piece of glass against his hand, then

throws it toward the water. It falls short. Homer retrieves

it. Candy splashes him playfully. He chases her away from

the beach, into the pine trees. Homer locks his arms around

her, from behind. He can't let go. She lets him hold her,

then breaks his grip. She turns to face him. She is taller

then he is, older, obviously more experienced. She initiates

the kiss. They drop to the ground right there; they make

love by the roots of the tree, Candy guiding him.

EXT. WALLY'S CAR - BEACH PARKING LOT - NIGHT

They come out of the woods, walking toward the car, Candy

leading. We hear Candy talking just before we see her and

Homer.

She sits in the passenger seat, Homer in the driver's seat.

Homer concentrates on starting the car.

Their expressions, as the car pulls away, belie their words.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - END OF DAY

Homer and Mr. Rose sit opposite each other at the picnic

table. Rose Rose stands behind her father, her hands on his

shoulders, watching Homer snip out Mr. Rose's stitches--very

quickly.

Job done, Homer leaves the table and hurries to the bicycle,

pedaling away. Rose Rose watches Homer go, as Mr. Rose flexes

his healed hand.

EXT. CAPE KENNETH - LOBSTER POUND - EVENING

Candy and Homer sit on the dock. Candy still seems to be

wrestling with her conscience. Homer throws snails in the

sea. It's cold.

Homer throws a snail with more force.

Ray comes out onto the dock; he sees Homer throwing another

snail.

Candy throws a handful of snails into the water.

Ray looks at the two of them; he sighs.

Ray nods good night; he leaves. Homer looks expectantly at

Candy.

INT. WORTHINGTON HOUSE, DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Olive and Homer sit at the dining-room table, the remnants

of an apple pie in front of them. Homer is still eating.

Pictures of Wally are on the wall.

Homer nods in sympathy. His mouth is stuffed with apple pie.

Olive's thoughts drift; her eyes look up at a photo of Wally.

Homer is tense. Does Olive suspect about Candy?

They both laugh, but Homer has a hard time looking her in

the eye.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - DAY

The pickers are moving out; the harvest is over. Olive and

Homer stand near the door to the bunkhouse, talking--we can't

hear their conversation. Rose Rose and the other men walk

past them, carrying the last of their belongings to the truck.

Olive and Homer walk over to the truck.

They shake hands.

Olive gets in her Jeep and waves as she drives off.

The truck is packed. Muddy tugs on a rope that secures the

load.

Mr. Rose nods and gets in behind the wheel. Rose Rose and

Muddy get in next to him. The others are bundled up for the

ride in the open back of the truck.

As they're leaving, Homer waves good-bye--the pickers calling

out to him.

Homer stands looking after them, after they're gone.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - LATER THAT SAME DAY

Homer is alone, rearranging his stuff--spreading out a bit,

making the place his own. (On the other beds, we see the

mattresses rolled up on the bare bedsprings.)

Homer turns; he hadn't seen Candy come in.

She smiles. He goes to her; they embrace.

BEGINNING A MONTAGE OF THE NEXT NINE OR TEN MONTHS.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE ROOF - MORNING

Homer, drinking coffee, is writing a letter on a note pad.

EXT. RAY'S LOBSTER BOAT - DAY

Homer is learning how to "haul" a lobster pot with Ray and

Candy's guidance.

EXT. LOBSTER POUND, FLOATING PENS - EVENING

Following Ray's example, Homer is trying to "disarm" the

lobsters' big claws by blocking them shut with the little

wooden wedges. Roy works quickly, never getting pinched. As

Candy watches, Homer gets pinched.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

Homer and Candy are naked. They have pulled two beds together

and made a double bed. He can't take his eyes off her.

INT. DISPENSARY - DAY

Edna and Angela and Larch are all reading Homer's letter,

their lips moving silently as they read the words.

INT. WORTHINGTON HOUSE, FIREPLACE - NIGHT

Olive and Homer and Candy are playing a board game around

the fireplace.

INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Edna and Angela view him anxiously from the doorway as Larch

furiously types and types.

INT. WALLY'S CAR - DAY

Candy is singing to the car radio, as animated and happy as

we've ever seen her. Homer, driving, can scarcely keep his

eyes on the road; he has to keep looking at her.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

With the radio playing (a popular song), Homer hops across

the bare floor, pulling on his boxer shorts; he opens the

door to Olive, who's holding out an armload of blankets to

him. He sheepishly thanks her. When Homer closes the door,

we see a hidden (and stricken) Candy, naked from their

interrupted lovemaking.

EXT. ORCHARDS - DAY

Vernon and Homer are working under an apple tree; they are

poisoning mice.

INT. DINING HALL - EVENING

Supper chaos--Buster and Mary Agnes are doing their best to

stop a food fight while Larch and Angela and Edna are

completely absorbed reading Homer's letter.

INT. MOVIE THEATRE - CAPE KENNETH

Homer and Candy are watching "Rebecca".

INT. BUNKHOUSE - DAY

The radio is playing a slow, sexy dance number. The fat ladies

from the apple mart are dancing as they paint the interior

walls of the bunk house.

Homer is finishing up painting the kitchen walls. When he

gets to the list of rules, tacked on the wall, he removes

the list and finishes painting under where the rules were.

Two of the ladies unroll the rolled-up mattresses on the

bare bedsprings, as Vernon enters with an armload of blankets

and pillows.

Homer holds up the list of rules, rereads it briefly; he

walks over to an unpainted beam, a support beam, and tacks

the rules on this beam.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE, ROOF - MORNING

Homer reads Larch's letter, sipping coffee.

INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT

Larch sits on his ether-bed with a letter from Homer in his

hand. He looks completely deflated. Angela is standing in

the doorway.

END OF THE MONTAGE.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - EARLY EVENING

In the newly painted, spruced-up cider house, Homer and Candy

are dancing to another slow, sexy song on the radio. He is

untucking her blouse, feeling under her blouse--she starts

to unbutton his shirt. They kiss while they dance. But the

song changes abruptly on the radio to something fast and

silly.

Homer responds to the music, dancing goofily--instantly out

of the mood. Candy laughs, but she picks up a pillow and

swings it at him, hitting him. He dances away from her. She

throws the pillow; he ducks--the pillow lands somewhere near

the door. Now Homer grabs a pillow and chases her from bed

to bed. She shrieks--they're both laughing. They each grab a

pillow and stand toe to toe whacking each other, laughing

all the while, until he pins her arms behind her and,

breathing hard--and despite the stupid music that broke the

mood--they are passionately kissing again.

The sound of a truck is sudden and loud.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - DAY

Mr. Rose's truck has arrived. The pickers are hopping out of

the truck, grabbing their gear.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - DAY

The door opens. Hero and Peaches barge in, as Homer and Candy

are struggling to return the pillows to the beds.

Muddy is right behind them. He picks up a pillow, off the

floor, looking for which bed it belongs on.

Then comes Mr. Rose, slyly smiling, taking it all in--there's

no hiding what's going on. Homer and Candy are caught, their

shirts untucked and half-unbuttoned--they're still out of

breath. The pillows lie crazily on the beds, each one of

which has been stepped on.

Rose Rose enters. She looks hardened, toughened--not happy.

She plops down her stuff on her bed, looking only at Candy.

Homer tries to help out.

He peters out, knowing how sick of hearing this Candy is. He

tries to change the subject.

There is an uncomfortable silence.

More silence.

One look at Muddy and we know something pretty bad happened

to Jack.

EXT. ORCHARDS - DAY

The pickers on their ladders, all picking. Homer is now a

good picker; he looks over at Rose Rose. She is slumped

against the ladder, not picking, completely ignoring an

argument beneath them in the aisle between the trees. (Mr.

Rose is checking over the apples Peaches has just picked.)

EXT. ORCHARDS - DUSK

In the aisle between the trees, Homer and Candy are arguing

in one of the work vehicles.

Her sudden hardness leaves him speechless as they go their

separate ways. Candy drives on.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - SUNNY MORNING

Breakfast time at the picnic table. Rose Rose by herself,

away from the table. She does not look well; she suddenly

goes back inside the bunkhouse.

Homer gets up to take his dishes inside.

INT. KITCHEN AND BUNKHOUSE - MORNING

When Homer comes in, Rose Rose is throwing up in the sink.

Rose Rose lies down on her bed with the curtain open. There

is something familiar about the way Homer approaches her

bedside; he does so with the authority of a doctor. He sits

on the edge of her bed with such complete self-assurance

that she doesn't protest.

She just stares. But she doesn't stop him when he touches

her abdomen. It's as if she knows that he knows what he's

doing.

She is taken back.

She rolls over on the bed, facing away from him again.

EXT. LOBSTER POUND - EVENING

Homer and Candy are sitting at the dock.

Homer doesn't respond.

Homer looks out over the ocean; he remains unresponsive.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - MIDDAY

Rose Rose is setting the picnic table for lunch when Candy

arrives.

She keeps setting the table.

Rose Rose looks down.

Rose Rose dismissively waves her hand.

Rose looks at Candy and shakes her head.

Rose Rose shakes her head again, more emphatically.

Rose Rose stays silent.

Rose Rose turns away from Candy.

Rose Rose stops; she can't even continue setting the table.

Her voice turns bitter, despairing.

There, suddenly, is Mr. Rose, walking past them. He is

uncharacteristically tentative.

Mr. Rose leaves Candy and Rose Rose alone again. Rose Rose

nods almost invisibly after her father. Rose Rose looks

pointedly at Candy, nodding. Candy slowly gets it. Mr. Rose

is the father! Rose Rose lets that sink in; she keeps looking

at Candy with an ashamed expression.

EXT. ORCHARD - DAY

The pickers are at work, on their ladders, when Candy runs

down the aisle between two rows of trees. She stops at the

bottom of Homer's ladder, out of breath. Muddy and Peaches

and Hero, in the treetops, are watching and listening.

The pickers can't help but hear this, too. Candy starts to

leave, Homer running after her.

Candy leaves. Homer starts looking for Mr. Rose.

EXT. ORCHARD, NEAR CIDER HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Smiling his enigmatic smile, Mr. Rose keeps slowly picking

while Homer stands at the foot of his ladder.

Mr. Rose stops picking, his eyes darting to see who's around.

Mr. Rose, with deliberate slowness, comes down the ladder.

Mr. Rose switches from sly to threatening in a split second.

Mr. Rose is indignant.

That takes some of the steam out of Homer's superiority.

Homer turns; he speaks over his shoulder as he walks away.

By his expression--he looks as if he's been punched--it's

clear that Mr. Rose didn't *know that*.

The other pickers are on their way to lunch; it's obvious

that Muddy, Peaches, and Hero already know that Mr. Rose is

sleeping with his daughter.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - PICNIC AREA - LUNCHTIME

Rose Rose is sitting at the picnic table when the pickers

arrive for lunch, almost simultaneously with Homer. He looks

at, then looks away from, Rose Rose. Mr. Rose is the last to

sit down at the table as a very tense, wordless lunch begins.

EXT. ORCHARD - DAY

Homer is on a ladder picking apples. Muddy climbs a ladder

on the other side of the same tree.

Muddy looks all around for Mr. Rose; then he gives Homer his

knife.

Homer nods, pocketing the knife. As Muddy climbs down and

moves his ladder to an adjacent tree, he keeps talking to

Homer until he disappears in the leaves.

Homer thoughtfully continues his work.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - LATE AT NIGHT

Homer lies awake in his bed.

EXT. ORCHARD - LATE AFTERNOON, ANOTHER DAY

The pickers on their ladders in the trees; nobody is talking.

In the late sun, the leaves have a reddish, fiery glow.

EXT. ORCHARD - ANOTHER DAY

It's much colder; the pickers are on their ladders in the

trees again, but they're dressed for the cold. Homer is high

on a ladder; he turns toward the view of the Worthington

house when he hears a car come to a screeching halt in the

driveway. Homer sees Candy get out of Wally's car; she leaves

the door open and runs toward the house. Parked in front of

Wally's car is an Army Jeep, with an ENLISTED MAN leaning

against it. The indifferent soldier smokes a cigarette as he

watches Candy run.

Homer descends the ladder and runs for the house, down as

aisle between the row of trees. The pickers watch him run.

INT. WORTHINGTON HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY

Camera follows Homer into the Worthington house where, from

the front hall, he sees Olive and Candy (in profile) sitting

on the couch. We can't see who's talking, nor do we recognize

the voice. As Homer comes into the living room, we see MAJOR

WINSLOW sitting in a chair (also in profile), talking to

Olive and Candy.

Major Winslow is a smooth, handsome well-briefed officer in

the casualty branch of the Army Air Corps; he's done his

homework, but he's not all business. He's painfully aware of

the delicate nature of his report.

Candy stands and leaves the room.

Major Winslow has to consult his notes.

INT./EXT. WALLY'S CAR - LOBSTER POUND - END OF DAY

Homer and Candy are sitting in the parked car in silence.

Candy stares at him, uncomprehending.

Candy cries.

EXT. LOBSTER POUND - EVENING

Ray is throwing snails in the water. Candy sits on the end

of the dock, slumped on Homer's shoulder.

Ray knows that she wants him to leave. He shuffles off the

dock, toward the house. He knows how they both must feel.

Homer tries to cuddle closer, but Candy sits up, preoccupied.

Candy buries her face in his chest.

Homer holds her, doing nothing, while she sobs. As her crying

subsides, Homer's thoughts are far away. With Candy slumped

against him, hugging him, he doesn't look at her; instead,

he looks out to sea and at the darkening coast, Candy's words

resonating. An unfamiliar expression is on his face.

Candy is silent. Homer feels strangely agitated; he shifts

his position.

Candy is angry; she gets to her feet and stares hard at him.

Candy sobs. Homer puts his face in his hands for a minute.

He regains his composure and stands up.

He faces away from her.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - NIGHT

Homer is in semidarkness as he walks toward the cider house.

Homer walks faster. When he gets to the cider house, he sees

Mr. Rose and Rose Rose arguing. Rose is sitting on the

bicycle, a bundle of her clothes tied up behind the seat.

Rose Rose starts to pedal away, but Mr. Rose stops her. She

starts to struggle.

They turn to see Homer.

She tries to break free from her father and pedal away, but

he stops her again. They keep struggling.

Homer steps between them, which makes Mr. Rose furious.

Rose Rose and Mr. Rose stop struggling. Suddenly Homer is in

charge.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

Muddy, Hero and Peaches smoke in their beds. Rose Rose opens

her curtain and peers out from her bed. She gets up and goes

toward the kitchen area in her nightshirt; she stops at an

unused bed, now covered with white rubber sheeting--Homer's

medical instruments are displayed and ready. Homer finished

scrubbing his hands in the sink. His surgical mask is loosely

tied around his neck.

Mr. Rose is looking at Homer's surgical instruments when

Rose Rose joins him.

Homer ignores him; he keeps naming his equipment.

Homer looks at Mr. Rose and Rose Rose.

Homer turns to Peaches, Hero, and Muddy.

Muddy herds Peaches and Hero out of the bunkhouse.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

Mr. Rose wears a surgical mask; he is sweating, even in the

cold, and his eyes look stricken as he watches Homer, who is

performing the abortion. Mr. Rose holds the ether cone over

Rose Rose's face. He drips some ether from the bottle on the

cone.

Cut quickly for Rose Rose's etherized face... to Mr. Rose's

eyes above his mask... to Homer working with his eyes trained

on the speculum...

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - NIGHT

...to Muddy and Peaches and Hero huddled under the overhanging

roof in the rain.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

Mr. Rose is having a hard time breathing.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - NIGHT

The cider house in the rain. Mr. Rose staggers out; he stands

there in the rain, trying to regain his composure. He starts

to scream.

Another angle: huddled under the overhanging roof, Muddy and

Peaches and Hero are watching him.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - RAINY DAY

Rose Rose, curled in a fetal position, listens to the rain

on the roof. Candy sits on her bed beside her. She helps her

to sit up, to drink a glass of water; then Rose Rose lies

down again. Rose Rose's expression never changes while Candy

talks to her. Mr. Rose lies in his bed in the exact same

fetal position as his daughter; he too, is listening to Candy.

Homer is putting away his instruments.

Muddy enters the cider house from out of the storm. He glances

at Candy and Rose Rose; then at Homer. Then he speaks to Mr.

Rose.

Hero and Peaches, dripping wet, come inside. Peaches is

standing next to the list of rules tacked to the kitchen

support beam.

Homer has finished putting his instruments away.

As the men are murmuring their approval of this idea, Rose

Rose interjects.

The men groan, but Mr. Rose won't oppose his daughter on

this subject--not this time. He just lies there.

Homer begins to read.

The men groan, in mock disappointment.

Homer crumples the list and throws it into the wood stove.

Camera closes on Candy.

INT./EXT. WALLY'S CAR - DRIVE-IN THEATRE - EVENING

Homer and Candy sit and stare at the blank screen; they don't

look at each other. Candy grips the steering wheel of the

parked car.

Candy slumps forward with her forehead on the steering wheel.

Homer lets that sink in.

Candy covers her face in her hands and cries uncontrollably,

unstoppably. Homer's anger keeps him impervious to her tears--

another "first" for him. He turns and looks at her with an

almost clinical curiosity; then he goes back to staring at

the blank screen.

EXT. ORCHARD - IN FRONT OF THE APPLE MART - DAWN

The rain has stopped but the grass is wet, the trees

glistening in the dawn light as Wally's car stops and Homer

gets out. The car exits the frame in one direction; Homer,

walking, exits the frame in another.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE - DAWN

As he walks toward the cider house, Homer sees Muddy and

Peaches and Hero waving to him from the roof.

Homer starts jogging, then running toward the cider house.

Muddy comes down the ladder to meet him.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - EARLY MORNING

Rose Rose's bed is exposed. The curtains are flung open; her

bed is empty. Mr. Rose is still in his bed, in the fetal

position we have seen before. Mr. Rose's trancelike expression

doesn't change as Homer and Muddy enter.

Muddy is scared; he looks to Homer for advice.

Homer takes the blanket off him; Muddy gasps. Homer tries to

examine Mr. Rose's wound. Mr. Rose smiles at him.

Homer doesn't answer; he knows Mr. Rose is a goner.

He winces in pain at Homer's examination.

Homer finds Mr. Rose's knife. There's blood everywhere.

Homer and Muddy exchange a glance. Mr. Rose, with his blood-

soaked hand, suddenly grabs Homer by the throat.

Mr. Rose dies. Muddy turns away. Homer closes Mr. Rose's

eyes.

EXT. CIDER HOUSE, ROOF - MORNING

Muddy and Hero and Peaches are sitting close together on the

roof, like banished children. It is from their perspective

that we see the police car and the ambulance--two men carrying

the body out of the cider house, and a cop or two talking to

Homer and Olive, and Homer talking to them. We hear no

dialogue.

EXT. APPLE MART - DUSK

Homer and the men load crates of apple jelly onto a truck.

The mood is solemn; they work with tired focus. Candy drives

up. The men are evasive with her; they find a reason to work

across the mart. Candy walks to Homer, stands next to him.

They say nothing for a moment, until Candy breaks the silence.

Candy looks away; she can't think of what to say. She shoves

her hands into her pockets, finds a letter there, which she

hands to Homer.

Homer looks at the letter from St. Cloud's; he puts it

unopened in his pocket without a second thought. Candy can't

let things end there.

Candy looks surprised.

Candy can only stare straight ahead.

A tear rolls down Candy's cheek, Homer wipes it away; then

he stops touching her and looks off into the quiet orchards.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

The pickers lie in their beds, smoking. Homer is undressing.

He pulls the letter out of his pocket and sits down on his

bed. Homer opens the letter without enthusiasm and begins to

read.

INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT

Music is playing on the old phonograph as an exhausted Larch

gives himself ether.

INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT

Edna is getting the girls ready for bed. Music continues

Over.

INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT

Larch has twisted himself on the narrow bed so that his face

is unusually close to the windowsill, and when the ether

cone starts to fall off his face--and his slack hand trails

down, off the side of the bed--the cone becomes caught against

the windowsill.

He tries to turn his face away from the cone, but he presses

his face into the sill--thus holding the ether-soaked cone

over his mouth and nose. His hands twitch, he's trying to

wake up; the hand that holds the ether bottle lets the bottle

fall. The bottle shatters against the sill; the ether spreads,

running red with blood from a cut on Dr. Larch's hand or

finger. Music continues Over. It's a funeral.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Buster is bringing in the wood as the music plays Over. Buster

smells the spilled ether. He heads toward the dispensary,

sniffing. Camera follows him into the dispensary.

In the dispensary: Buster approaches Larch's ether-bed.

He drops the armload of wood and runs for help.

INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT

Angela enters. She feels for Larch's pulse; Larch is dead.

Angela opens a window. She pull's Larch's body away from the

windowsill. Buster joins her on the bed.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

Homer finishes reading the letter; he puts it down, gets up,

and walks to a window. He stares into the night.

Homer wipes a tear off his cheek.

EXT. PICKERS' TRUCK - CIDER/PACKING HOUSE - MORNING

The truck is packed for the long trip south; it passes by

the packing house, which looks closed for the season. No one

else is about. Muddy is driving slowly, his arm out the open

window. In the back, huddled among their belongings, are

Peaches and Hero (on one side) and Homer (on the other). The

pickers are trying to draw Homer into their conversation,

while Homer is giving the apple farm a good-bye look. He has

made up his mind about something.

Homer just smiles and shakes his head.

EXT. WORTHINGTON HOUSE, DRIVEWAY - MORNING

As the pickers' truck drives past, Homer is on the side of

the truck nearest the Worthington house and driveway; he

sees Olive and Candy and Ray helping Wally out of the car

and into a wheelchair. A NURSE stands by.

Wally is wearing what appears to be an oversized officer's

coat or flight jacket, his face looking small in the overlarge

clothes. He can't move his legs at all, and his mouth is

drawn into a tight-lipped smile.

Olive is dissolved in tears. Candy is sobbing; she kisses

Wally, without ceasing, while he haltingly touches her face,

her hair.

In the truck the smile is gone from Homer's face. He shakes

his head.

This makes all the pickers laugh, but Homer just smiles and

shakes his head. He watches the Worthington house disappear

from view.

INT. MOVING TRAIN - PASSENGER CAR - NIGHT

A CONDUCTOR, taking tickets, comes to Homer, who is better

dressed than we've ever seen him; he is looking at his sober

reflection in the black window-glass of the night train when

the conductor gets his attention. When the conductor moves

on, Homer takes Angela's letter out of his breast pocket; he

skips ahead to the end.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - GRAVEYARD - AFTERNOON

Angela and Buster and Mary Agnes and Edna carry Larch's

coffin; they set it down by the raw hole. The pile of fresh

dirt stands out against the new snow; the hole is black

against the new white.

We see the wheelbarrow with the gravestone.

INT. GIRLS' DIVISION - NIGHT

We see the faces of the girls praying for Larch (Mary Agnes,

too) as Edna finishes her favorite prayer.

INT. MOVING TRAIN - PASSENGER CAR - NIGHT

Camera closes on Homer, sleeping to the sound of the rocking

train. Angela's letter lies in his lap.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - TRAIN STATION - EARLY MORNING

The train stops, blowing snow. Homer steps off the train

carrying a suitcase and Dr. Larch's bag. The disapproving

stationmaster is still disapproving. Music plays Over,

something triumphant.

EXT. ST. CLOUD'S - THE HILL - EARLY MORNING

Homer makes his way up the hill toward the orphanage. Music

Over.

EXT. ORPHANAGE - EARLY MORNING

Edna is breaking up fights; this time, instead of fighting

over snowballs, the orphans are fighting over their pumpkins.

Suddenly Homer tops the brow of the hill and they all see

him. Buster is the first to catch sight of Homer; he runs

toward him. Mary Agnes also sees Homer; she immediately turns

away and runs inside. Music FADES OUT Over.

INT. LAVATORY - EARLY MORNING

Mary Agnes crashes into the bathroom and stumbles up to the

mirror; she starts to fix herself up with shaking hands.

INT. ORPHANAGE, FRONT HALL - EARLY MORNING

Everyone has heard the news; they come on the run. The

children flock around Homer, hugging him. Homer takes Angela

and Edna in his arms. Mary Agnes joins the group. Homer takes

in how changed, how attractive she is. They smile awkwardly

at each other.

INT. BOYS' DIVISION - EVENING

Homer's suitcase is open on the bed; we see Homer's hands as

he begins to unpack. Smaller hands reach in and root through

the clothes.

Curly continues his search. Homer thinks for a second; then

reaches into his pocket and pulls out the piece of pale-green

glass.

Homer hands the piece of glass to Curly.

Curly is duly impressed; he walks away to examine his new

treasure. Homer continues unpacking. He pulls his X ray out

and puts it aside.

Homer turns to see Buster, Mary Agnes, Angela, and Edna in

the doorway.

Homer smiles; he nods.

Angela and Mary Agnes start to put Homer's things back in

his bag. Edna picks up the X ray and looks at it with a somber

expression.

Homer is stunned; he puts his hand to his heart.

Homer takes that in; he nods. Mary Agnes touches him

sympathetically.

INT. LARCH'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Homer looks at his fake diplomas; they are now framed and

hanging on the office wall. Homer surveys the office, as if

for the first time; he sits down in the desk chair, as if

slowly getting used to his new position.

INT. BOYS' DIVISION - NIGHT

Homer reads to the boys from "David Copperfield". While his

voice is strong--positive, optimistic, certainly reassuring

to the boys--there is in the conclusion of the chapter

something that distracts him. He seems to hesitate; he misses

a line or two, and perhaps he purposely skips one or two

others. (Possibly Homer's eyes wander ahead, to the title of

the next chapter: "I Make Another Beginning.")

Homer stops and looks at the boys' faces.

Homer smiles.

Homer puts out the lights and leaves the boys in the familiar

semi-darkness. Seconds, later, the closed door to the hall

is flung open, flooding the room with light from the hall,

and Homer, dressed in his long white laboratory coat and

looking every inch the doctor, delivers his best imitation

of Larch's popular blessing.

On Copperfield and Steerforth and Curly as the door to the

hall is closed and semi-darkness prevails in the room again.

Copperfield, smiling, shuts his eyes. After a second, the

wide-eyed Steerforth shuts his eyes, too. Then Curly.

The last to close his eyes is Buster.

