EXT. STYGIAN DARKNESS - NIGHT

STYGIAN DARKNESS

The suggestion of traveling through space. Suddenly a star

sparkles to life in the distance. Gives rise to another...

and another... until we're looking at a whole galaxy of stars.

No, not stars. LIGHTS. NEON LIGHTS. A throbbing skyline of

neon. LAS VEGAS, NEVADA. As seen from a descending aerial

shot. We PLUNGE down into her shimmering embrace... DISSOLVING

TO:

EXT. LAS VEGAS STRIP - NIGHT

Cruising the Strip, taking in modern day Las Vegas. Sin City

gone theme park. Gigantic behemoths of pulsating neon: THE

MGM GRAND... EXCALIBUR... LUXOR... TREASURE ISLAND... passing

revamped faithfuls like CAESARS and THE DESERT INN...

...then heading DOWNTOWN to Fremont Street, where "old school"

Vegas makes its last stand. BINION'S HORSESHOE, THE FOUR

QUEENS, THE LAS VEGAS CLUB arid...

THE SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO

One thing's for sure. This place ain't no bastard child of

Epcott Center. At least, not yet. Sure there's some flash

going on, but it's more class than overkill.

This is where the pro's come to savor a time forgotten. A

joint where every dealer knows your name. Where part of the

allure is the smell of moldy paneling and the tactile whisper

of worn felt. Where "funny business" doesn't just get you

blacklisted... It gets you dead.

Lets us enter.

INT. SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO - NIGHT

CREDITS SEQUENCE

TRACKING through the casino floor; highlighting SLOT MACHINE

PAY-OFFS and pockets of rowdy players winning at BLACKJACK,

CRAPS and ROULETTE. It's just one of those nights. The tables

are on fire.

A FLOOR MANAGER nods as a hefty bet is paid out to a shooter

at a craps table: He checks out his watch, anxious for the

arrival of...

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

From behind a FIGURE in a suit. All we see is a murky

reflection in gold elevator doors. The floor numbers

descending rapidly...

INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT

STICKMEN, CROUPIERS, DEALERS

all anticipating the arrival of...

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

The elevator doors open... and we PAN DOWN to the figure's

feet. He steps out onto the casino floor... and right away

we notice he has a pronounced limp.

Following behind the figure. We haven't seen his features

yet... (and won't for a while.)

TRACKING SERIES

-- the figure (seen in soft focus) passes a ROULETTE TABLE,

the wheel already in mid-spin. His hand casually brushes the

side of the table... and we PAN ACROSS to the wheel -- just

in time to see the ball landing on 00. The players HOWL

defeat. The croupier rakes in all the losing checks with a

slight nod of respect to the passing wraith...

-- TRACKING PAST SOME BLACKJACK TABLES... RACKING from the

passing figure (still in soft focus) to a DEALER calling

out:

At the next table, ANOTHER DEALER pulls a six card 21. Off

the players' stunned reactions. No way! One of the players

instinctively glances behind him... but the figure has moved

on. The dealer stifles a grin, her eyes following the figure

as he heads toward...

-- A HOT CRAPS TABLE. The CROWD APPLAUDS as the shooter lands

a hard eight. The dice are fished back to the player. He

shakes them up with double ought bravado. We RACK from his

hand LARGE in the f.g. to our murky figure passing in the

background. The player throws... (we keep tracking with the

figure) as the stickman calls it: SEVEN OUT! to a thundering

chorus of disappointment.

-- Our figure passes by in the foreground, while in the

background, we see a growing line of shame at one of the ATM

MACHINES.

-- Following behind our figure as he turns into a corridor

of SLOT MACHINES. CUT TO REVERSE ANGLE from the far end of

the corridor. As the murky figure approaches, a player in

the f.g. hits a jackpot.

Another player in mid-ground is also in the midst of a payout.

Suddenly -- with the approach of the figure -- both payouts

trickle to a stop.

CASINO BAR FLOOR - BAR AREA - NIGHT

FOLLOWING BEHIND the figure as he turns out of the slot

corridor and heads over to the bar. He pours himself a cup

of coffee.

DORIS THE BARTENDER wanders over with a small container. She

starts to pour... Empty. We quickly STEADICAM AROUND to reveal

BERNIE LOOTZ's features for the first time. His sad sack

eyes register scant surprise at the empty cream container.

He's just about to leave, when an attractive COCKTAIL WAITRESS

cruises up. NATALIE BELISARIO -- late 20's-mid-30's.

Everything about her sparkles, except her eyes.

They're post-mortem. She appears frazzled. Sifts through

some coin tips.

A sheepish look comes over Bernie. He tries to catch her

eye. She doesn't even glance at him.

She looks at him. Only the faintest hint of recognition.

Doris mutters something under her breath -- heard that one

before -- and dumps Natalie's drinks on her tray.

Natalie grabs up her tray. Doesn't even look at Bernie.

She takes off.

She raises the empty cream container for effect, turns it

over. A few drops dribble out.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT

Bernie limps away from the bar. We hear another spike of

sound from the gaming area. As he approaches, a FLOORMAN

stops him.

The floorman nods, walks off. Bernie makes for the rowdy

gaming tables. Takes his time about it. His approach brings

an ill-wind to the area. The players appear to sense it.

It's in their reactions. A slight hesitation of the dice.

Fingers tensing over a pile of chips. A hand tugging at a

tie.

The Cooler has arrived.

As he reaches table eleven, Natalie intercepts him with a

short glass of Chivas Regal.

Bernie just smiles at her.

She offers up a smile. It jump-starts those dormant eyes.

Her whole face comes alive. Notches her up from an eight to

a ten. Bernie immediately glances away. He's afraid what she

might read in his gaze.

Bernie gestures her over to table eleven. Immediately makes

the HIGH ROLLER in question. A good old boy named BULLDOG.

He's the one boasting loudly as he shakes the dice with one

hand.

Bernie grabs the drink from Natalie's tray, intentionally

bumps Bulldog...

Another man gladly accepts the drink. Meanwhile, Bulldog

sends the dice high up into the air. They drop perfectly on

the table. The stickman calls it.

The croupiers hungrily devour the chips from the table.

Bernie moves on quietly before anyone notices.

But he's been noticed all right. By Natalie. Not quite sure

what she's just witnessed. Who is this guy?

We hear a VOICE over the intercom.

Bernie reacts immediately to the code words over the speaker.

INT. CASINO FLOOR CRAPS TABLE - MONTAGE - NIGHT

A -- a player makes a hard six at a craps table. The players

howl...

B -- from the same angle we PAN UP from losing dice to the

same guy. Bernie looming large in the background.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - BLACKJACK TABLES - NIGHT

A -- Bernie taking a seat at another blackjack table. Next

to him, a full table of players on a good run of cards.

B -- The same table with less players as the dealer appears

to be gaining an edge over the players. The only thing filling

up are ashtrays.

C -- Same again, with one player. This time with Natalie

watching in the background. Intrigued. QUICK JUMP CUTS show

the player's mountain of chips going down until there is

only one.

D -- The dealer taps the felt for the man to bet his last

chip. After a moment of indecision he flips the chip into

the air...

INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - OVERLOOKING THE CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT

...the chip becoming an Alka-Seltzer dropping into a glass.

The glass is in SHELLY KAPLOW's hand. Director of Casino

Operations for the Shangri-la. Late 40's-early 50's.

Distinguished, slick, oozing charm. But lose the Cartier,

Armani and Paco Raban and you're looking at pure street.

He's watching Bernie through the two-way glass. Shakes his

head in admiration.

Suddenly the office door swings open. THREE MEN stride in.

Shelly projects immediate deference to NICKY "FINGERS"

BONNATTO. Mid-50's. Former Geovassi family underboss from

"back east." The guy's a relic from the days before MBAs

became the weapon of choice in the "family" business. He

wears his corporate makeover like a bad coat of paint with

traces of Mulberry Street primer showing through.

Nicky's accompanied by a pair of CORPORATE TYPES in Hugo

Boss threads. Shelly glances their way with a look that

suggests he's working himself into a full-on sphincter wind-

up. Bad news x2. Shelly's muscle, LOU stands off to one side

with an apologetic expression.

Nicky reaches out to shake Shelly's hand. Gets nothing back,

then remembers.

Nicky grabs Shelly, embraces him.

Shelly sizes up the corporate types.

Shelly sees where this is going. Larry extends his hand...

...then catches himself. Quickly pulls it back. Shelly stares

him down for a tense beat.

Off their uncomfortable expressions...

INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - A SHORT WHILE LATER - NIGHT

Shelly seated across from Nicky, Larry and Marty.

Nicky looks cautiously across the table.

Nicky shoots a look over at Larry and Marty. Larry takes

this as his cue.

Shelly nods carefully. But...

Nicky and Larry exchange looks. Marty drops his gaze into

his lap.

Shelly is close to losing it. He catches himself, takes a

breath.

Larry shoots him a disapproving look. Off Shelly's disturbed

expression. He's already calculating serious damage control.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT

Bernie makes his way across the casino floor, when he's

intercepted by Shelly.

Shelly escorts Bernie over to a nearby bar area. The BARTENDER

zips over with some drinks.

Bernie shrugs. Natalie steps up to the bar a few feet away.

Puts in a drink order. She catches Bernie's eye. Nods.

Bernie smiles.

A beautiful WOMAN in a low cut dress, sashays her way past

them, heading for a high rollers craps table. Shelly reaches

out, napkin in hand, grabs her arm. Hands her his card. She

snatches it, looks it over. Immediately loses all attitude.

Oh shit.

The hooker just nods.

She takes off. At the same time Natalie leaves with her drink

order. They walk in the same direction. Shelly mistakes

Bernie's wandering look for interest in the hooker.

Bernie just stares after Natalie, Shelly finally picking up

on it.

He limps off. Shelly stares after him. A predator seizing up

his prey. Calculating.

EXT. LUCKY STAR MOTEL - NIGHT

Bernie's 1958 Buick Electra pulls into the parking lot of a

flea-bag motel. Next door to the motel, we see a convenience

store with the name, THE EZ MARK in pink glowing neon. It's

actually supposed to read: The EZ MARKET, but the last two

letters of "Market" have burned out.

INT. LUCKY STAR MOTEL - COURTYARD - NIGHT

One of those center pool style motels. A hard luck oasis, if

ever there was one.

As Bernie limps toward his room, his neighbor, a low rent

HOOKER, approaches from the opposite end of the courtyard

with a huge-ass JOHN in tow.

They converge at their doors at the same time. There's a

weariness about the hooker that's endemic to this town. She

winks at Bernie. He nods at her. Then casts a furtive glance

over at the John. The man flips him off. The hooker mouths,

"Sorry." Bernie hastily enters his apartment.

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bernie flips on the light. A dim overhead bulb hardly makes

a dent in the gloomy surroundings. Typical drab motel

furnishings.

We notice a couple of dead plants on the radiator next to

the window. A single place setting on the counter. Something

odd: an empty cat food bowl on the kitchenette floor. No

sign of a cat. Go figure.

Bernie heads over to the dresser. A half-filled bottle of

gin rests next to a lone glass with a crack down the side.

He pours himself a shot. Turns on the TV. A religious channel.

Shitty reception.

ON SCREEN:

an Appalachian Pentecostal service. The members of the

congregation taking up snakes and writhing around in religious

hysteria, while a number at the bottom of the screen solicits

viewer donations.

Bernie doesn't even try to change the channel. He takes a

seat on his bed, props himself up against a pair of pillows,

stretches out.

From next door, the sounds of wild humping.

Bernie closes his eyes, tries to ignore the X-rated soundtrack

coming at him through the carpaccio thin walls.

The hooker's moans are starting to get to him. He raises his

fist to the wall, then stops himself. He's just not the

confrontational type.

Instead, he heads over to the TV, cranks the volume up. The

hysterical moaning from the snake ritual now blends in with

the grunting and groaning from next door, making for a bizarre

remix that could only exist in the world of Bernie Lootz.

Bernie emits a deep sigh, closes his eyes.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - CRAPS TABLES - NIGHT

Big action at the craps tables tonight. The players cheer as

MR. PINKERTON makes another pass. He exudes USED CAR SALESMAN.

Natalie arrives with his drink.

Pinkerton reaches for the drink without taking his eyes off

the table. He throws a hard six. The crowd cheers again.

He turns around, stuffs a hundred dollar chip down her shirt

and slyly cops a feel.

Natalie shudders in disgust. She spins around to leave...

runs smack into Bernie, spilling her tray of drinks on him.

Bernie wipes himself off, helps her pick up the pieces.

Natalie tries to wipe him down a bit more.

Bernie wiggles his way next to Pinkerton. He gives the

stickman a certain look.

Bernie just watches as Pinkerton throws the dice.

The players go nuts. The stickman taps the felt in front of

the shooter.

The Boxman seated at the center looks up at him.

The Boxman feigns concern, then nods in approval.

Just as the stickman feeds Pinkerton the dice, Bernie flips

a dollar chip over toward the center of the table. Natalie

peers between them to catch a glimpse.

The chip lands on Pinkerton's parlayed bet. He releases the

dice from his stubby little fingers.

The players cry out in defeat. Pinkerton grumbles to himself.

He fingers his rail of chips.

He throws in the chips. The croupier places his bets. The

dice are fed back to him. He throws.

Pinkerton is fit to be tied. After a passing moment of clarity

he empties his entire rail.

The entire table stops down for a second.

Pinkerton sets his dice carefully and lets them fly.

Pinkerton slams his fist down on the table. He turns to leave

the table to find Natalie smiling at him.

Pinkerton starts to lose it. Security moves in, right on

time. Natalie shoots Bernie a satisfied look. He averts his

eyes shyly and limps away. She stares after him for a moment.

INT. PARADISE LOUNGE - NIGHT

BUDDY STAFFORD, the Paradise Lounge's star attraction, is

performing on stage. He's a poor man's Tony Bennett. Mid to

late 60's. A staple at the Paradise for the last 20 years.

The singer sluggishly descends the stage to the lounge floor,

almost tripping over his microphone cable.

Buddy works the room, leaning in real close to the ladies,

delivering the requisite eye contact. When their companions

react with mock outrage, Buddy raises his fists playfully in

a boxer's defensive stance. It's classic Buddy Stafford

schtick.

From somewhere across the lounge, an ATTRACTIVE WOMAN jumps

up and throws her panties at Buddy. Buddy catches them and

waves them in the air... just as another pair whizzes by...

We PAN ACROSS to Shelly seated at his corner booth, in the

company of Nicky Fingers, Larry and Marty.

TIGHT ON SHELLY as he focuses on Buddy. A smile threatens

his patented stoicism. He's flashing back on the old days.

While Nicky and Marty are clearly enjoying Buddy's

performance, Larry fixates on the singer with joyless eyes.

We take on LARRY'S POV of Buddy --

SLOW MOTION CLOSE-UPS of BUDDY SINGING. The MUSIC SLOWED

DOWN with the action, emphasizing Buddy's lack of energy.

Sweat dripping off Buddy's forehead, splattering into tiny

jewels against his microphone. Buddy's tired eyes. Shaking

hands around the mic.

SMASH CUT to real time APPLAUSE as Buddy reaches the end of

the song. Larry is the only one not clapping. RACK ACROSS to

Shelly as he picks up on this.

INT. PARADISE LOUNGE - BACK STAGE - NIGHT

Shelly approaches Buddy's dressing room. He enters without

knocking...

INT. BUDDY STAFFORD'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

...to find a trembling Buddy hunched over on a sofa, hugging

himself. Buddy immediately sits up...

Shelly throws a pair of red silk panties to Buddy. We see a

room number scribbled on the crotch area.

Shelly feigns as if he's leaving.

Shelly throws the panties back at Buddy. Buddy just stares

at him with pained eyes, waiting for something else. Sweat

mirror balls his wrinkled forehead.

Shelly nods. Removes a foil package from his pocket. Hands

it to Buddy. The singer rushes over to his dressing table.

Unwraps his works. Rubber tubes his forearm. Trembling hands

juggle lighter and hypodermic.

Shelly takes a seat on the sofa. Buddy, euphoric as the dope

hits the spot. Tears in his eyes. He picks up on Shelly's

somber expression in the mirror.

Shelly shakes his head.

Shelly shakes his head.

Shelly holds Buddy's gaze in the mirror.

INT. PARADISE LOUNGE - BACK STAGE - NIGHT

Shelly exits the dressing room, to find Larry waiting on

him.

He's accompanied by a good looking YOUNG MAN.

Shelly's expression: no. But he heads over anyway.

Johnny extends his hand. Shelly ignores the gesture.

Johnny nods at Shelly, takes off. Shelly and Larry eyeball

each other for a long, cold beat. Shelly's about to say

something, when Nicky and Marty approach. Larry shrugs,

flashes a chilling smile.

Shelly eyeballs Marty for a tense, extended beat. What do I

look like, some fuckin' pimp, college boy? Just as Marty's

starting to get real uncomfortable, Shelly cracks a smile.

Shelly looks to Larry.

We linger on Shelly's unsettled look. This guy is bad news.

EXT. SHANGRI-LA PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Bernie weaves his way through the lot to his car. Arriving

at his Buick, he's startled to find Natalie leaning against

it. She holds up the $100 chip the drunk tipped her.

Off of Bernie's surprised expression...

INT. THE MAKAWAO BAR AND GRILL - NIGHT

Cheesy Polynesian decor. Mood lighting = an excuse to keep

the electric down. Basically, a joint where people come to

lose themselves.

Natalie and Bernie are seated in a booth near the back. She

sips on an umbrella drink; he's nursing his usual gin.

Natalie has an astrological chart in front of her. In between

sips, she makes annotations to the chart.

Bernie maintains eye contact with Natalie for an extended

beat. Then drops his head, gazes at his glass.

Natalie nods. Bernie motions to stand. Natalie just remains

seated. Keeps talking.

Natalie covers Bernie's hand with hers.

Natalie flinches slightly. Then swiftly regains her composure.

It's Vegas. An honest mistake.

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Natalie's hand flips on the television. Another bizarre

religious service. We pull back from the screen as she tries

to change the channel. Just gets a whole lot of static.

Bernie's standing uncomfortably in the middle of the room.

Bernie walks over to the dresser, pours himself a shot.

Natalie glances around. She notices Bernie's dead plants...

Her eyes land on the empty cat bowl. She's about to say

something, when she picks up on Bernie's expression. Let's

not even go there. She gestures to an old record player in

the corner.

Bernie opens one of the kitchenette cupboards. Bare shelves...

except for a lone RECORD up on top. He brings it down. It's

a Sinatra album. Never been opened.

Natalie looks on as Bernie meticulously removes the record

from its sleeve. He blows a few particles of dust from its

surface. Then delicately lays it on the turntable. The way

he goes about this is incredibly ceremonious. With as much

care as given to disarming a nuclear weapon.

Natalie can't help but smile.

Bernie lowers the needle to the first cut of the record.

Everything seems to be going so well, until...

SKREEEEEE! The needle skids across the surface of the record

with a sound worse than chalk on a blackboard.

Bernie opens his mouth in a silent grimace... and a delicious

laugh comes out.

It's Natalie's laugh. Talk about a tension breaker. Bernie

turns to her, shrugs. He tries again. This time the needle

catches... and Sinatra takes command of the room. He's singing

"This Town," a finger snapping upbeat Valentine to Vegas.

Marred only by a slight clicking caused by the scratch.

Natalie summons Bernie over with her wagging forefinger. He

picks up his glass, shuffles over.

She starts massaging his shoulders, eliciting involuntary

moans from him. Bernie is almost in tears. Nobody's touched

him like this in years. And it shows.

Natalie takes Bernie's glass, gulps down the remains herself,

then sets it on the floor. She drops down next to Bernie.

Starts kissing him. Takes it slow.

They fall back onto the mattress. Natalie taking the reigns,

maneuvering her hips, kicking off her panties...

Bernie gets an eyeful of a tattoo on her butt. A pair of

dice. Both twos.

In seconds, Natalie has separated Bernie from his pants and

underwear, taking him inside of her, Ol' Blue Eyes keeping

the rhythm...

Natalie moans uninhibitedly. Surprise: she's a real screamer.

Moments later, we hear banging from the hooker's side of the

wall. Some John telling them to keep it down.

Bernie, with tears of elation in his eyes, thrusts away at

Natalie... for all of thirty seconds, before he explodes,

convulsing in her arms with a stifled gasp.

Frank winds down "This Town" a few seconds later. Poor Bernie,

he didn't even make it through the song.

Natalie wraps her arms around him.

Bernie rests his head on her breasts. Closes his eyes. We

hold on him. A few seconds pass... and he breaks into a smile.

Fade to black.

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY

TIGHT on Bernie sleeping. He still has that goofy smile on

his lips. A beat or two later, he opens his eyes. We PULL

BACK to reveal that he's alone in the bed. No sign of Natalie.

Bernie turns to the pillow next to him, buries his face in

it. Takes a deep breath. Moans at her scent. Ambrosia. He

still has his face in the pillow, sucking in deep breaths,

when Natalie steps out of the bathroom. Big smile.

Bernie just looks up at her; replay on the goofy smile.

Heaven.

INT. MOONLIGHTER COFFEE SHOP - DAY

Bernie and Natalie sit eating breakfast.

As Bernie talks, Natalie spies a very PREGNANT GIRL (20's)

coming out of the restroom. Her eyes follow the girl back to

a table where a YOUNG MAN (20's) waits on her.

Bernie holds her gaze her for a moment.

Before Natalie can respond, we hear the pregnant girl start

to moan out loud. The waitress rushes over.

The young man at the table rushes her to her feet, escorts

her toward the exit in a dramatic fashion. All this without

paying the bill.

As they pass by Bernie and Natalie's table, the girl trips

over Natalie's purse. Bernie quickly helps her up. That's

when he notices the young man...

There's a quick moment of confusion. Bernie feels a bit thrown

by it all.

EXT. MOONLIGHTER COFFEE SHOP - PARKING LOT - DAY

Bernie accompanies them out to their car at a quick step.

Once out the door, the girl's contractions appear to have

subsided. Natalie walks with the girl to try and help.

Bernie pulls Mikey aside.

They reach the couple's car. A rusted out 1955 Ford Fairlaine.

By the looks of it, they've been living out of it.

Bernie nods. He gazes past Mikey to the girl.

Charlene sidles up alongside Mikey.

Mikey helps Charlene into the front passenger seat. They

drive off. Natalie looks to Bernie. She's curious, but doesn't

ask. He appears thankful for that.

INT. CASINO - BLACKJACK TABLES - NIGHT

CLOSE on a skyline of black chips neatly positioned on the

felt. We see the owner of the chips strike a match. His last

one. It fizzles out quickly. TILT UP to the PLAYER'S FACE

with an unlit cigarette hanging from his lips.

A hand quickly reaches in, lights the cigarette with a Zippo.

PULL BACK to reveal Bernie.

Bernie sits at the table.

Bernie peels off a hundred from his billfold. Lays it on the

felt.

The dealer finishes shuffling, begins to deal.

Bernie starts laughing. The player is less than tickled.

Just then the dealer interrupts them.

We see the dealer's got an ace showing.

The player waves off the insurance, as does Bernie. The dealer

checks. Nothing. As the hand plays through the dealer busts

out. Bernie glances over at the dealer. What the hell? Bernie

places his chips again.

The dealer plays. Bernie and the high roller win again.

Bernie glances around him uncomfortably. We see Shelly

approaching. Shelly just has a nose for when things aren't

running smoothly. Larry is lurking behind him.

The dealer turns up some cards. And again, Bernie and the

high roller win. Bernie looks absolutely perturbed. Shelly

gestures something with his head. Bernie cashes out.

Bernie strolls over to Shelly. Shelly guides him away from

the table under Larry's watchful eye.

Bernie shrugs, still confused.

Bernie shakes his head. Larry sidles over.

Shelly looks to Bernie. You believe this mook? Larry extracts

a CD from his jacket...

Shelly is close to losing it. When MORRIE, the manager of

the Paradise, comes running up...

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Shelly, Larry and Bernie following behind Morrie as he hastily

leads them down a hallway of the Shangri-la's best suites.

They arrive at an open door, the sound of a TELEVISION

beckoning them inside...

INT. BUDDY STAFFORD'S SUITE - NIGHT

Starting on the TV set: "Lost Horizon" (1937) is playing.

It's the scene where Robert Conway (Ronald Coleman), his

brother and Maria are leaving the lost city in the end.

Conway looks back for one last tearful view of paradise.

PANNING OFF THE SCREEN to a pair of naked feet on the floor

next to the bed... revealing Buddy slumped against the side

of the mattress... a hypodermic needle protruding from his

arm. Death glaze fixated on the screen.

Bernie slumps back against the wall. Catches his breath.

Shelly just stares at Buddy, a slight tremor of grief

threatening his granite features. He glances over at Larry,

who takes in Buddy's deathly repose without a hint of emotion.

Larry meets Shelly's eye with a subtle smirk of one-upmanship.

An incendiary beat passes between them. Then...

Shelly and Larry exchange looks again. Bernie picks up on

it. The tension in the room threatens nuclear fission. A

loud ANIMAL ROAR reverberates on the soundtrack...

accompanied by jungle-like percussion... as we CUT TO:

INT. THE PARADISE LOUNGE - NIGHT

A "now performing" poster on a metal stand: JOHNNY CAPPELLA

live at the Paradise Lounge!

PANNING off the sign and following a COUPLE through the doors

into the theater.

...our eye drawn to the stage. A troupe of gorgeous FEMALE

DANCERS in leopard print G-strings, grinding their hips to

the muscular rhythm.

Flanking them are a pair of strutting LIONS in elevated cages.

An EXPLOSION OF LIGHT and SMOKE... and JOHNNY CAPPELLA makes

his entrance. Decked out in a reflective suit that picks up

every light in the house and throws it back at the audience.

Johnny's got the style of a Harry Connick Jr. and the moves

of Ricki Martin. The energy this guy brings to the stage

makes the last twenty years of Buddy Stafford's reign seem

like suspended animation. The women in the audience start

fanning themselves with delight.

It's a new dawn in Paradise. And the panties are coming fast

and furious.

We see Shelly watching from the back of the room. He shifts

his attention to Nicky, Larry and Marty at a primo table.

They're having a grand time. Nicky pats Larry on the back of

the head. "Good work, kid."

Larry turns and raises his drink to Shelly. Shelly stares

right through him. A declaration of war.

INT. CASINO MIDWAY - NIGHT

Bernie and Natalie wander around the midway. A middle-aged

WORKER at the ring toss booth gets her attention.

Natalie drags Bernie over. She pays her money and the worker

hands her the rings. Natalie throws, and misses all eight.

The man pats her on the shoulder.

Natalie is about to take him up on it, when she catches

Bernie's eye. His look suggests she's being played for a

sucker. She decides against it.

They walk off down the midway. Bernie chuckles to himself.

Natalie shakes her head.

Natalie looks down at her shoulder where the man patted her.

She brushes it for effect. Bernie smiles. They take a seat

at the end of the midway.

Natalie locks onto a little toe-headed BOY being dragged

around by his OLDER BROTHER and the brother's FRIEND. The

kid has a glazed look in his eyes.

Natalie fixates on the boy with a haunted expression. Bernie

picks up on it.

Natalie hides her face behind her soda cup. Looks off in the

distance.

She tears her eyes away from Bernie. Bernie can't believe

what he's hearing. That she wants to be invested in him.

What could be so bad?

She lowers her soda. Turns to Bernie. He studies her for a

lengthy beat, stoic features. She wipes away her tears. Oh

well, that's that. Bernie stands up. Looks around... focuses

on the arcade clock. It reads 1:40 a.m. He turns to her...

Off Natalie's tear-filled features. She breaks into a laugh-

cry...

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bernie and Natalie making love. Slow, tender. Natalie doesn't

make with the "Oh yeah, baby, you're doing great"

encouragement. Just some low key moans. Bernie doesn't come

too soon either. He outlasts Sinatra through several cuts.

In contrast, we hear the hooker and her John howling away

through the walls. An escalating ostinato of "Oh Baby's."

Until Natalie reaches behind her and raps her fist against

the wall. Big smile from both of them.

EXT. LUCKY STAR MOTEL - DAY

Bernie and Natalie returning from breakfast in Bernie's Buick.

Bernie can't find a parking spot. Natalie climbs out, heads

for the room.

Natalie arrives at the room. She's about to stab the key in

the lock, when she realizes the door is ajar. She hesitates

for a moment, then pushes it open...

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY

...to find Mikey and Charlene waiting on them. Charlene is

puffing away on a Marlboro when Natalie enters. She

immediately stubs it out. Rises, heads for the bathroom.

She closes the door after her.

Mikey steps up to Natalie. She hasn't moved from the doorway.

Her dislike for Mikey is evident.

Natalie doesn't dignify Mikey with an answer. She stares him

down unflinchingly. Mikey reaches out to Natalie's ear,

"pulls" out a $20 dollar chip.

He drops the chip down Natalie's cleavage. Natalie still

doesn't react. Mikey reaches up, starts caressing her face.

She flinches. Right then, the door swings open. Bernie enters.

Mikey snaps his fingers and a rose appears in his hand. He

extends it to Natalie. She ignores the gesture, steps aside.

Charlene emerges from the bathroom. Natalie heads over. She

doesn't want to be around Mikey.

She stops in front of Charlene, points to a sprinkling of

white powder on the side of her nose.

Charlene immediately swats the coke off. Natalie enters the

bathroom. Closes the door.

Bernie scratches his head, thinks on it for a moment or two.

Then heads over to the kitchenette cupboard. Pulls down a

coffee can. Extracts a thick wad of bills. Hands them over

to Mikey.

Bernie seems quite moved by it all.

She places Bernie's hand over her stomach.

Mikey takes Charlene by the arm...

Charlene kisses Bernie on the cheek. He blushes.

Mikey turns in the doorway, eyebrows raised. Yeah?

Mikey plays it dumb. Huh?

Mikey nods, backs out of the room. Charlene giggles. They

disappear into the parking lot. Natalie emerges from the

bathroom. She lights up a cigarette, just stares at him as

if to say: sucker. Bernie shrugs.

INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Shelly enters to find Larry seated behind his desk. Larry

immediately leaps to his feet, phony apologetic grin.

Nicky and Marty are lounging on Shelly's sofa. Shelly's gaze

is drawn to a table in the middle of the room. There's

something on it, covered in a plastic sheet. He raises a

"what gives?" eyebrow.

Nicky gestures to Larry. Larry whisks the plastic sheet off

the table...

...to reveal an impressive SCALE MODEL of a redesigned SHANGRI-

LA HOTEL AND CASINO.

The model boasts huge snow-capped Himalayan peaks a la "Lost

Horizon," surrounding a completely overhauled hotel and

casino. A Matterhorn-like rollercoaster traverses the mountain

top. Gold and marbled pillars, terraces and floors promise

to raise the bar on Las Vegas opulence. We're looking at a

hundred million dollar investment easy.

Off Shelly's startled expression --

Shelly slowly approaches the model like a condemned prisoner

mounting the scaffolding.

We see his stoic features reflected in her sparkling swimming

pool.

Shelly whirls around, yells:

A tense silence ensues. Nicky, Larry and Marty exchange looks.

Shelly falls silent. Massages his forehead. Shit, that wasn't

the way to handle it.

Nicky gets up from the sofa, walks over to Shelly, places a

hand on his shoulder. Shelly flinches, but doesn't pull away.

Shelly stares right through Marty. Choke and die on it,

motherfucker.

Shelly nods at Nicky, then shifts his gaze to Larry. Larry's

all smiles. He steps forward to join them, his hand dropping

down and caressing the surface of Shelly's desk behind him.

A subtle gesture not lost on Shelly. Shelly mentally unloads

a full chamber into Larry's chest. Returns the smile.

INT. CASINO - CRAPS TABLES - NIGHT

As Shelly and the group pass a hot craps table, Nicky is

drawn to it.

Only now do we see Bernie has arrived to cool the table of

its hot shooter -- A LOUD, pudgy, overdressed SUBURBANITE.

Shelly eyes Bernie.

Shelly signals Bernie to back off. Bernie steps back.

Shelly, Larry and Marty head for the restaurant. Nicky quickly

slaps down some green.

The stickman slides the dice over to the suburbanite who is

shooting. He scuttles the dice. They bounce up over the rail

and spike Nicky on the forehead before dropping back on the

felt. The players chuckle.

Nicky rubs his forehead, glares at the suburbanite. He fires

back.

Nicky says nothing. The table is quickly cleared by the

dealers. The stickman skips the next shooter and feeds the

dice to Nicky.

Suburbanite is still fuming over his loss. Nicky places a

couple hundred on the passline.

Nicky throws in some chips to the center.

Suburbanite watches as Nicky runs through a lengthy pre-shot

routine. Lots of hand jive and cuff shooting.

Nicky throws.

The croupiers takes down the pass line.

Nicky is fed the dice again. Same routine. Nicky just fires

an incendiary look back at the suburbanite.

Nicky throws.

The players make their bets.

Nicky slowly starts his routine defiantly.

Nicky throws.

Nicky claps his hands dealer style -- for effect -- and with

a gentlemanly smile steps back from the table. Nicky's chips

are quickly swept up by the croupier.

Nicky locks eyes with the suburbanite. Then flashes a smile

that suggests he's going to brush it off. He turns away from

the table...

Nicky makes like it's all in good jest. Yeah, that's real

cute. He heads around the table to the suburbanite, holds

out his hand as if to say: Hey, no hard feelings. The

suburbanite shrugs. What the fuck? I was just playing with

you, pops. He reaches for Nicky's hand... when Nicky suddenly

headbutts him. Before anyone can react, Nicky starts laying

into the suburbanite. The man goes down and.

Nicky continues pummeling him...

Shelly alerted to the fracas, rushes back to the table. He

takes immediate control of the situation. Snaps his fingers

at security. The suburbanite is whisked away with a pocketful

of comps and a bruised ego. Shelly takes Nicky aside, attempts

to calm him. Nicky keeps railing at Shelly:

Nicky catches himself. He looks at Shelly for a beat.

There's an unspoken understanding between them. "The good

old days." We see Bernie in the b.g., looking more than a

bit shocked.

INT. THE MAKAWAO BAR AND GRILL - NIGHT

Bernie seated with Natalie.

Bernie's look: Why?

Bernie's expression: Oh.

A somber mood falls on the table. Bernie reaches for Natalie's

hand. Instead, he knocks the salt over. It spills out in

front of them.

Bernie just stares at her, shrouded in sadness. Natalie stubs

out her cigarette, rises.

Bernie casts his eyes to the mound of spilled salt in front

of him. Nods. A few beats later he raises his head...

Gone. A WAITRESS appears.

INT. SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO/BAR - NIGHT

Once again, we see Bernie's feet limp across the casino floor.

He walks up to the bar, asks for a cup of coffee.

Doris brings it over. Short on the cream again.

He just sips it black. Gloom and doom features. Life sucks.

His master's VOICE sounds over the intercom:

Bernie looks to Doris. Sighs. Only three more days.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - CRAPS TABLES - NIGHT

He heads for the crap tables, the sound of raucous CHEERING

becomes audible. A large crowd starting to gather.

Bernie noodles his way to the front of the crowd. As soon as

he gets a look at the heavy hitter at the table, he tenses

up.

Oh shit.

It's MIKEY. With Charlene. Charlene is making one hell of a

racket. Playing up her extremely maternal state.

Just then Natalie sidles up to Bernie with the Chivas Regal.

Without thinking about it, he grabs the glass off the tray,

downs it in a single gulp.

Mikey throws down a bet for the dealer.

The stickman thanks him as they place the bet. Mikey throws

down more money. We can see Mikey has bets all over the table.

As everyone dotes over Charlene, Mikey quickly swaps the

dice before anyone can see. He throws.

Mikey is paid nine thousand by the croupier, as is Charlene.

Bernie stands frozen. He doesn't bother trying to get any

closer to the table. He knows it'll do no good.

Natalie looks over at Charlene. Their eyes meet for a second.

It's as though Natalie knows it's a scam and Charlene's

acknowledging it.

Mikey throws again.

Another nine grand. Mikey's rail is nearly full. Charlene

hops around awkwardly causing more distraction.

Bernie is really sweating it out now. Then Shelly arrives.

Larry is hot on his tail.

Shelly's expression tells us he isn't so sure. Something

definitely isn't kosher.

As Charlene chatters on, Mikey switches the dice back.

Shelly makes him.

Mikey throws...

The players and crowd, though disappointed, applaud Mikey's

achievement.

Mikey moves his rail of chips to the felt.

Larry notices Shelly slipping on a pair of leather gloves.

Shelly walks over to Mikey and Charlene, Larry lingering

behind him.

Mikey steals a tense glance at Charlene. She starts to fidget

nervously.

Security (Tony and Lou) corrals the couple. Leads them away.

Bernie watches as they pass by. Mikey looks into Bernie's

eyes. They both know he's been made. Natalie doesn't say

anything, just looks at Bernie.

INT. CASINO RECEIVING AREA - NIGHT

Slot machines everywhere -- some on the way out, some on the

way in. Crates of casino supplies.

Bernie rushes in with Natalie behind him. Heading for an

aural beacon of BLOWS landing on flesh... GRUNTING,

PLEADING...

...arriving to find Tony and Lou kicking the shit out of

Mikey on the floor. Charlene lies clutching her belly a few

feet away. Shelly swings a baseball bat, warming up for some

blood sport. Larry watches from the sidelines -- at once

appalled and enthralled.

Bernie rushes over to Shelly...

Everyone stops dead. Freeze frame. Shelly gets a weird look

in his eye. A fuse has just been lit...

Shelly smashes Mikey across the shoulder with the bat.

AARRRGGGGHHH!!! Shelly raises the bat to cream Mikey again...

Bernie grabs Shelly's arm. Shelly shoves him back.

Raises the bat again...

Shelly freezes. He lowers the bat, throws it aside. Grabs

Bernie by his collar...

Shelly releases Bernie. There's a strange look in Shelly's

eye. We see the wheels turning...

Bernie sees where Shelly's going with this. We can almost

hear the cell door slamming in his head.

Bernie glances over at Natalie. She has tears in her eyes.

He looks to Shelly pleadingly. Please don't do this...

Shelly glances over at Lou, nods. Lou kicks Mikey in the

face. His nose snaps like a twig.

Charlene clutches her belly, moans...

Suddenly Shelly kicks Charlene in the belly! WHAM! She

screeches out.

Even Shelly's goons can't believe what they've just witnessed.

Larry is aghast. Bernie rushes Shelly, starts raining blows

on him. Shelly swats him off. He drops down next to the

squirming girl, rips her sweater and blouse up over her

stomach...

...to reveal a mound of fake padding. He tears the padding

away from her, throws it at Bernie.

The muscle start laughing it up. Relief. Larry emits a nervous

giggle. Natalie's jaw hits the floor. Bernie takes a step

back. He's about to go into serious shock. Charlene curls

over, sobbing.

Bernie looks over at Mikey. He stares up at his father,

trembling.

Bernie holds his son's gaze for a beat. He's almost tempted

to... He just shrugs and nods at Shelly.

ON NATALIE at that moment. We can tell she agrees with

Shelly... but thinks all the more of Bernie for it. That

might even be love in her eyes.

Shelly snatches his baseball bat up off the floor. Walks

over to Mikey, and brings it down full force, pulverizing

Mikey's left kneecap. Oh man, the scream...

Natalie turns her head. She's about to throw up. Larry

watches, unflinchingly. Charlene is making with some serious

pleading now.

Shelly steps up to Charlene, tapping the base of the bat in

the palm of his hand. He smiles reassuringly at her.

Shelly turns his back on her. Charlene starts sobbing relief.

They're not going to hurt her. It's going to be all right.

Wrong. Shelly throws the bat to Lou. The heavy steps up to

the plate (as we RACK FOCUS to Shelly walking away) --

CRUNCH!!! followed by the girl's SHRIEKS. Natalie buries her

head in Bernie's shoulder.

Shelly catches Larry's eye: I hope you were taking notes.

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bernie's seated on the edge of his bed, drowning his sorrows

with a bottle of gin. Moonlight paints him in jail bars of

shadow. Natalie lingers in the b.g.

Natalie's hand lowers the needle onto the Sinatra record.

"Nice 'n' Easy" starts up.

She walks over to Bernie, takes the bottle away. Helps him

to his feet.

He gives himself over to her reassuring embrace. Natalie

raises Bernie's face to her's.

Bernie shakes his head. It's too late for that now.

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - LATER - NIGHT

Natalie staring up at the ceiling, Bernie nuzzled against

her. Her features appear softer than ever. Luminous in the

moonlight. Realization moist in her eyes.

He grunts something inaudible.

Bernie tenses up. Huh?

Bernie raises his head, not quite sure he heard her right.

Natalie sits up, hugs her knees. Bernie finds himself staring

at her back.

Bernie reaches out, caresses her back. She emits a shiver...

Bernie pulls Natalie back toward him.

Natalie smothers her lips against Bernie's. He enshrouds her

in his arms. Fade out...

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Fade into SOFT FOCUS. Slowing taking form... A CAT'S FACE

seen in extreme close-up.

WIDER -- to reveal the cat resting on Bernie's chest. She

MEOWS as he stirs awake. He's stunned to see her there.

The cat jumps off his chest and slinks over to her empty

food bowl. Meows again. Bernie breaks into a wide smile.

Bernie shields his eyes from the bright sunlight streaming

in through the blinds. Huh? This is a first for him. He's

never gotten direct sunlight in his room before. What's the

deal? Did the world just turn on its axis?

He glances over his shoulder... No Natalie. Just her

impression in the sheets. And a note on her pillow. For a

moment his heart stops. He conjures up the worst. Grabs up

the note, unfolds it.

We see a lipstick kiss and the words: HAVE A SPECTACULAR

DAY!

Bernie lets out a joyful whoop! Leaps out of bed...

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS - DAY

CLOSE-UP: Trixie eating some tuna out of her bowl. We hear

the record player needle drop on "Luck Be A Lady." Cut to:

Bernie's feet gliding around the room... PAN UP to Bernie

dancing with himself. He's positively aglow. He snatches up

a salt shaker and sings along with Sinatra. It's true --

love makes the world go around. It obviously also gives life

to dead plants, as evidenced by the small bulb that has sprung

up overnight above his radiator. But we won't dwell on that.

INT. SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO - DAY

Bernie struts into the casino a changed man (still to the

tune of "Luck Be a Lady"). Even his limp seems less pronounced

as he greets fellow workers as they pass.

He catches a glimpse of himself in a wall mirror. Maybe for

the first time, he likes what he sees. In the reflection he

notices Natalie smiling at him. He meets her eyes. She averts

them quickly, keeps walking.

INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - THAT MOMENT

Shelly watches Bernie from the video monitor. He appears

less than delighted over Bernie's sunny disposition. He picks

up the phone, dials.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT

Per usual, Bernie walks up to the bar, asks for a cup of

coffee. Doris slides it over.

Before he can answer, Doris hands him a container of cream.

A full container. Taken aback, he starts pouring it into his

cup, when he hears a VOICE over the intercom:

Bernie looks to Doris.

INT. CASINO - MONTAGE - MOMENTS LATER

A -- Bernie arrives at a hundred dollar blackjack table just

in time for the dealer to bust out. The crowd goes crazy!

B -- Bernie takes a break by leaning up against the side of

a slot machine. Suddenly, the woman playing it hits a jackpot.

C -- Everywhere he seems to go, people continue to win.

D -- Bernie, despite the spooky irony, can't help but smile

as mountains of chips pile up on the tables. Shelly appears

behind him. Not a happy camper. He gestures Bernie to follow

him.

INT. CASINO SLOTS AREA - NIGHT

They head over to a section of slots. As they pass one of

those huge million dollar slots, the FLOOR MANAGER cuts in

front of them.

He hands Shelly a cup of quarters, takes off. Shelly looks

to Bernie. He's trying to keep a lid on his anger.

Shelly pulls the lever.

Marnie immediately spits out a small jackpot.

Shelly starts feeding Marnie again.

On the mention of Natalie's name, we hear a shrieking SIREN,

followed by a deafening toll of slot bells. Shelly's just

landed the million dollar jackpot. Shelly stares at the slot

in surprise -- then looks over at Bernie. Realization hits

hard. Fuck! The floor manager staggers over. His expression

is priceless.

SEVERAL CASINO WORKERS have gathered to witness the

deflowering of Marnie. They gaze reverently upon her, as if

witnessing the "Close Encounters" mothership for the first

time. Shelly drags Bernie out of earshot.

Bernie nods, a huge grin wrenching his cheeks apart. He's

about to go helium on us.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT

Natalie's serving drinks to a table of high rollers, when

Tony and Lou appear behind her...

INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

The door to Shelly's office slams behind Natalie. Shelly

glares at her from behind his desk. We see him thumbing his

steel abacus. The beads drifting toward the center. Natalie

shakily lights up a cigarette.

Natalie, startled, drops her cigarettes. She kneels to gather

them up.

Shelly walks around his desk to Natalie.

Natalie rushes from the office in tears. Shelly closes his

eyes for a moment -- gotta keep it together.

INT. SHANGRI-LA CASINO - NIGHT

Bernie approaches some cocktail waitresses about to go off

duty.

Off Bernie's expression: Oh...

EXT. LUCKY STAR MOTEL - NIGHT

Bernie's Buick pulls into the lot. He parks, heads for his

room.

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bernie enters. Flips on the light. No Natalie.

No answer. He heads over. Finds it empty. Concern spreads

across his features. He glances around the room. Notices the

closet wide open. Natalie's clothes missing.

That's when he catches sight of the note taped to the dresser

mirror. He rushes over, rips it off.

I'M SORRY BERNIE. I GUESS IT JUST WASN'T IN THE CARDS FOR

US. TAKE CARE, NATALIE.

Bernie slumps to the floor in disbelief. Starts to tremble.

Then rocks back and forth, wracked by stifled sobs. Christ,

make it stop hurting...

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - LATER

Bernie seated at the foot of the bed, drinking bourbon from

a solitary glass. He's almost gone through an entire bottle.

He glances down, notices a pair of Natalie's stockings

sticking out from under the bed. He brings them up to his

face. Breathes her in, only to exhale a sorry breath.

INT. SHANGRI-LA CASINO - BAR - NIGHT

Bernie stops at the bar for a cup of coffee. Doris starts to

pour the cream... whoops... empty. Bernie shrugs. Par for

the course. Time to go to work.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT

We see Bernie back in top form. Forget Mr. Cool, he's turned

into Mr. Freeze with a vengeance. The high rollers are facing

a nuclear winter on the floor thanks to Bernie.

SERIES

A -- A man with a fresh bankroll sits at a card table full

of hubris. Bernie pulls up a chair next to him.

B -- We see a crowd of players hovering over a busy craps

table. The cheerful congregation turns sour as the dice are

flung. Players groan as they jettison the table, leaving

just Bernie...

C -- We see a dealer pull a six card twenty one as players

sit with twelves and thirteens. They sit stunned as their

money is swept away. The same man with the hefty bankroll

unclips the last of his green. He throws it over to the dealer

to change in.

D -- Larry, roaming the floor, is visibly disturbed by

Bernie's cooling ability. It's something he can't quantify

and it unsettles him. He glances up toward Shelly's

observation window, knows the man is gloating.

Good call. From behind the glass, Shelly lights up a stogey.

Hint of a smile. You go, Bernie.

INT. PARADISE LOUNGE - NIGHT

Johnny Cappella rocks the house. PAN ACROSS to Shelly and

Bernie seated in Shelly's booth. Shelly is in a jovial mood,

while Bernie is a portrait of misery.

Bernie shrugs an apology, shifts his gaze to Johnny Cappella.

Shelly looks almost... tortured. Something he needs to get

off his chest.

Off Bernie's shocked expression --

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bernie sits watching TV, a bottle of Ten High next to him on

the bed. Same religious channel. This time it's a mass baptism

taking place on some river bank. He's about to doze off,

when he hears a light rapping on the door. He cocks his head,

not sure if it's the booze talking.

Bernie throws open the door --

Natalie standing there. A lonely angel framed in the doorway.

Suitcase at her feet. 24 carat tears glistening in the dark.

They just stare at each other for an extended beat. Then

Natalie stumbles into Bernie's arms. Clingwraps herself to

him. Bernie squeezes his eyes closed. Holds on for dear life.

It's a different kind of pain now; one that hurts so good.

ANGLE ON NATALIE

from over Bernie's shoulder. There's a bittersweet look about

her. Nothing good can come of this. But that's tomorrow. A

long ways off.

INT. BERNIE'S BEDROOM - LATER

Bernie and Natalie lie in each other's arms. Bernie seems at

ease. Natalie eyeballs the ceiling, smoke wisping up from a

cigarette.

Bernie looks over at her.

Bernie cuts her off.

Natalie finishes her cigarette. Well, she's made her bed.

Bernie starts nuzzling her. She turns away.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - DAY

Shelly looking on as a high roller cleans up at craps. With

Bernie standing right there next to the guy.

Which only seems to make it worse, as Bernie's presence spurs

the player on to an even bigger win.

Bernie has that goofy "my heart is full" look about him.

Which can mean only one thing in Shelly's book. The man looks

about ready to split an atom. We see Larry hovering nearby

with a smug grin. Off of Shelly's enraged expression...

EXT. LUCKY STAR MOTEL - DAY

Lou's black Oldsmobile pulls into the parking lot. Shelly

and the boys climb out, head for...

EXT. THE MOTEL COURTYARD - DAY

Natalie's sunning herself at the pool. The only other people

around are a middle-aged couple and a young boy.

Shelly (slipping on his leather gloves), followed by Lou and

Tony, strides purposefully up to Natalie -- no hellos, nothing --

just grabs her by the hair...

He drags Natalie over to Bernie's room, kicks the door open,

shoves Natalie inside...

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Shelly throws Natalie onto the bed. Lou closes the door and

draws the blinds.

Shelly heads over to the closet, rips it open, pulls out a

suitcase. He starts throwing Natalie's clothes into the case.

Shelly stops packing. He grabs Natalie up off the bed, starts

smacking her around.

Shelly lifts Natalie up, throws her across the room into the

dresser mirror. SMASH! She crumbles to the floor, glass

showering her. Natalie grabs up a shard, rushes Shelly with

it...

She slashes Shelly across the arm. Ouch, fuck! Before Tony

and Lou can make a move, Shelly ensnares her wrist -- snaps

it backwards -- AARRRRGGHHH!!! Shelly snatches up the shard,

shoves her back on the bed. We see her terror reflected in

the jagged glass against her cheek...

He slices her cheek open.

Tony and Lou look on with mutual expressions: Shelly's getting

a little carried away here.

Shelly staggers to his feet...

Shelly reaches into his jacket, pulls out a wad of bills.

Throws them at Natalie.

Shelly gestures to Tony and Lou. They exit the room, leaving

Natalie sobbing into one of Bernie's pillows.

EXT. LUCKY STAR MOTEL - NIGHT

Bernie parks. Heads for his room. He's about to reach for

his key, when he realizes the door is slightly ajar. He pushes

his way into...

INT. BERNIE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

...darkness.

Bernie fumbles for the light switch...

There's just enough moonlight in the room for Bernie to make

out Natalie curled over on the bed. As he approaches, he

trips over Natalie's suitcase on the floor.

He cuts himself on a splinter of shattered glass as he

staggers to his feet. Which draws his attention to the mirror.

Moonlight glows off the edges. That's all there is -- edges.

On the dresser: his bottle of Ten High. Empty.

Confused, Bernie fumbles his way over to Natalie on the bed.

He reaches out to touch her face... instead his hand makes

contact with a lump.

He jerks back, flips on the nightstand lamp.

Bernie chokes at the sight of her. She clutches a bloody rag

to her cheek. Blood on the pillow... blood on the sheets...

And tears.

Bernie slumps down on the edge of the bed. Sucker-punched.

Trying to make sense of it.

Bernie stands shakily.

Bernie doesn't answer her.

INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM WAITING AREA - NIGHT

FADE IN on Bernie's hunched over figure, waiting on Natalie.

He tugs at his car keys as he wrestles with his emotions.

Natalie's betrayal has finally sunken in. The man's in pain.

His natural instinct is to just take off. Run. Fuck Natalie.

Fuck Shelly. Fuck this whole goddamn town.

Suddenly he looks up. A couple of people pass by in front of

him... and then there she is. Standing a few feet away, face

patched-up, arms clutching herself, not sure whether to

approach him or not.

The sight of her just breaks Bernie's heart. He stands slowly,

legs like jelly -- and in that instant it's all so clear to

him. He walks over, forgiveness in his eyes, contrition in

hers.

She tries to say something. He shakes his head.

They embrace with an intensity that threatens to merge their

atoms into a single being.

INT. BERNIE'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT

Bernie drives down a quiet Vegas street. It's spooky.

Almost too quiet. All the lights are green as they cruise

into the night.

Natalie leans over and kisses him. As she does so, she catches

sight of her face in the mirror. Starts to tear up.

She looks into Bernie's eyes. Sees the most beautiful girl

in the world. Tears roll down her cheeks.

Off Natalie's startled reaction...

EXT. HOLY ROLLER WEDDING CHAPEL - NIGHT

A NEON SIGN READS: "HOLY ROLLER WEDDING CHAPEL. OPEN 24

HOURS."

BOOM DOWN as Bernie carries Natalie out of the chapel, their

lips fused together.

INT. BERNIE'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT

Bernie and Natalie burn down the highway. The lights of the

big city just a glimmer in the rearview.

Up ahead, a billboard reads: THE SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO.

TAKE A GAMBLE ON PARADISE.

TIGHT on Bernie. His expression turns grim. Natalie picks up

on it. She shakes her head. Silently pleading: Bernie, no.

Bernie tries to shrug it off. But the spectre of Shelly sits

firmly on his shoulder. There's no escaping him. We see Bernie

fighting it. Losing. SHIT!

In the next instant, Bernie pulls a quick U-turn across the

middle shoulder, starts back toward Vegas.

EXT. CASINO PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Bernie pulls into the parking lot. Kills his lights.

INT. BERNIE'S BUICK - NIGHT

Bernie reaches for the door. Natalie grabs his arm.

Natalie shakily opens her purse, pulls out a handful of

hundreds. Pushes the money at Bernie...

Bernie stuffs the cash in his jacket. Climbs out.

She turns away. Stares out the window, tears streaming down

her cheeks.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT

Bernie makes for the Paradise Lounge. SPLIT SECOND FLASHBACK

as he imagines Shelly laying into Natalie. Fast cuts.

Reverberating sound echoes. Just the fuel Bernie needs to

make his stand. By the time he arrives at

INT. PARADISE LOUNGE - NIGHT

He's practically foaming at the mouth with rage. He barges

in to find Shelly at a table in agitated conversation with

Nicky, Larry and Marty. They fall silent, realizing something

is wrong.

Bernie throws something in Shelly's face. It's that bloody

rag Natalie was holding to her cheek. It lands on the table

in front of everyone.

Shelly swats it away with disgust. Jumps to his feet. WHAM!

Bernie slugs him one. As Shelly doubles over, Bernie gets in

his face.

Shelly's goons quickly move in, grab Bernie. Drag him away.

Shelly composes himself, turns to his guests.

He rushes off. Nicky shoots Larry a resigned look.

INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Lou shoves Bernie inside. Bernie kisses floor. Shelly strides

past, leans against his desk. Bernie slowly drags himself to

his feet.

Shelly's expression: Oh yeah?

Shelly looks to Tony and Lou:

Bernie gets eye-to-eye with Shelly. A first.

Bernie turns his back on Shelly, strides over to the door.

Bernie turns, looks at Shelly. Shelly's dead serious. They

hard stare each other for a beat. Bernie doesn't say anything.

At least, not out loud. His eyes do all the talking: "I guess

you leave me no choice either." HOLD on Bernie's steely

resolve.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

This could be the opening of the film -- Bernie standing

with his back to us, facing the gold elevator doors. Murky

reflection. The floor lights ascending fast...

The doors open and the soundtrack goes SILENT. SLOW PUSH IN

on him as he takes in the action -- a gladiator about to

enter the Coliseum. Something comes alive in his eyes. A

spark of determination. This is not the expression of a loser.

CLOSE-UP as his foot steps onto the casino floor --

An explosion of amplified CASINO WALLA shatters the previous

silence.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - NIGHT

We follow Bernie as he wanders through the casino like he's

done a thousand times -- but this time with conviction.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - CRAPS TABLES - NIGHT

Bernie steps up to an empty table, throws down the whole

three grand onto the felt.

The CREW working the table stop down as they realize who it

is. The table is dead. Bernie couldn't be needed. The croupier

slowly gathers up the green, hands it to the boxman.

The boxman counts the cash.

The others chuckle. The boxman counts out the chips; they're

given to Bernie. He places them all on the passline.

The stickman pushes over the dice. Bernie picks a couple.

He throws....

Bernie picks up his three thousand dollars in winnings. He

lets it ride. The table quickly fills up with hungry players.

Bernie throws the dice again...

Bernie is now paid six thousand dollars on his pass line

bet.

The other players also collect their winnings. They can feel

something in the air.

Bernie, forehead beaded with sweat, rubs the felt a little

before he picks up the dice. He throws...

Bernie takes double odds on his bet. The boxman isn't sure

what to do. Does he stop him? Does he dare?

In the b.g., people gather to watch the action. Whatever it

is, it's catching. The table next to them bursts into

applause.

INT. CASINO FLOOR  MONTAGE - NIGHT

A -- Close on a slot machine as it pays out. The woman grabs

the payout feverishly.

B -- A group at the blackjack table cheers as the dealer

busts out.

C -- The line at the cashier cage gets longer and longer.

-- CHIPS. Stacks and stacks of chips, being meticulously

counted.

D -- A quick shot of a roulette ball dropping into number

twenty-one. The dealer slowly puts the marker atop a large

stack of chips in the twenty-one square.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - CRAPS TABLES - NIGHT

A shot of the faces of frenzied dice players waiting for the

outcome of the throw. Followed by a thunderous release as

the point is made.

In the center of it all. Bernie Lootz. His rail is nearly

full of chips. The other players pat him on the back and

shake his hand as the croupiers busily pay the line.

He's a winner. And it's infectious. He's gone and

"contaminated" the entire casino. The slots are ringing out

of control. CHEERING. WHOOPING. MOANS of delight. This much

excitement threatens to take the fucking roof off.

Bernie just gazes around in amazement. If only Natalie could

see him now...

Bernie takes a thousand dollars in chips, tosses it gently

to the croupier.

The entire crew stop for a moment out of respect. Bernie

notices. They all nod as the boxman locks up the tip money.

INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT

Shelly sits alone in his office, nursing a glass of Scotch,

listening to some scratchy Chet Baker on the turntable. He

looks pre-occupied. Almost melancholic. Bernie's assessment

of his life having hit home.

Suddenly the door is thrown open. It's Tony...

INT. CASINO - CRAPS TABLES - MOMENTS LATER

Shelly wanders up slowly to find Bernie at the center of the

crowd. He steps behind the table into the casino pit to get

a closer look.

The boxman looks up nervously.

Shelly mouths the words under his breath.

The game resumes.

Bernie stops.

Everybody quiets down to listen.

Bernie points to Shelly standing in the pit. The crowd watches

the drama play out.

The boxman colors up a hundred fifty thousand in chips, lays

them out on the table. He counts it and claps his hands

together for the cameras.

Shelly stands motionless. Staring into Bernie's eyes. The

whole crowd watches. After what seems like an eternity, Shelly

nods. Then the Boxman feeds the chips in with the others. A

moment later, we can nary tell they were ever gone.

Larry appears next to Shelly. Nicky and Marty watching from

the sidelines -- dour expressions.

Shelly suddenly jabs Larry in the throat with the tips of

his fingers. Larry gasps, starts to cave. Shelly keeps him

upright, escorts him to a nearby men's room. Nicky and Marty

looking on in amazement.

INT. MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

The door flies open, Larry catapults into frame. OOF!

Bounces off the wall. Shelly's right behind him. He drags

Larry to his feet. Slams him into the wall again -- gets

right up in his face.

Blended in at a subsonic level.

Some kinda mantra: pain, pain, pain.

Shelly headbutts Larry. It's like the sound of a walnut

cracking. Larry slumps to the floor. Shelly takes a deep

breath. Control, control, control. He heads over to the sink,

washes his hands -- over and over. Larry moaning in the b.g.

Shelly adjusts his tie in the mirror. Control.

INT. CASINO FLOOR - CRAPS TABLES - NIGHT

Shelly exits the men's room, makes his way back to the craps

table where Bernie is. Just in time to see Bernie lay twenty

five grand on the pass line. A waitress hands a drink off to

Bernie. He takes a healthy swig. Then picks up the dice.

Throws.

The crowd gasps in horror as Bernie's twenty five grand is

quickly raked in. He replaces it with another stack of chips.

The dice are pushed over to him. He rubs the felt real gently

before throwing. Then lets loose the dice.

All eyes follow the dice. They hit the felt and bounce around

behind a stack of chips. The stickman can't spot them.

A croupier makes the call as anxious players rubberneck to

get a look.

The crowd groans again. It appears the streak is over.

Bernie looks out over the felt. This is his moment of truth.

He unloads his entire rail and puts it on the field.

He yells out.

The crowd chimes in with every opinion under the sun.

The dice are slowly pushed over to Bernie. The crowd is

feeling it. The entire casino is feeling it. Bernie lets out

a long soulful sigh. His whole life depends on the next throw

and everyone knows it.

Bernie rubs the felt as usual and lines up the dice to show

a six and a six. He picks them up.

Locks eyes with Shelly -- then lets loose. The dice fly from

his hand. Slowly, ever so slowly we watch them sail across

the table. The entire table holds their breath in

anticipation...

EXT. SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO - MOMENTS LATER - NIGHT

Bernie throws open the doors, stumbles out. His limp seems

more pronounced. He wears a miserable expression.

At the car Bernie steps up. Opens the door, slides in behind

the wheel.

INT. BERNIE'S CAR - NIGHT

Natalie throws her arms around him...

Bernie just looks at her. Pale, mournful features.

He doesn't answer. Just starts up the car...

INT. SHELLY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

On the surveillance monitors: the epidemic continues --

players winning at every table. The Shangri-la's been wiped

out. There's no way they can cover this amount of winning

action.

PANNING ACROSS to Shelly. Defeated. The phone rings

incessantly in the b.g. Shelly ignores it.

Lou pokes his head into the office:

Shelly doesn't respond. He reaches into his desk drawer for

that bottle and a glass. Is about to pour himself a shot...

Fuck it. Pushes the glass aside. Takes it straight from the

bottle. The phone keeps ringing...

On the scale model of the newly proposed Shangri-la. Hold on

it.

WHAM! A chair enters frame, shatters "paradise."

WIDER: Shelly trashing the model with a vengeance. Kicking

the debris around the office.

Drenched in sweat, Shelly staggers over to his desk. Swats

the empty gin bottle to the floor. Picks up his disinfectant

spray, gives his desk one last wipedown. Immaculate.

Stands, walks out...

INT. BERNIE'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT

We see the lights of the city receding in Bernie's rearview

mirror. Once outside of the city limits Bernie pulls the car

over.

Bernie throws open his door...

Throw up. And he does. It's as if he's choking up the entire

city. Everything that's bad about it. Finally, he pulls

himself back into the car. Slams the door.

Natalie touches his cheek, a reassuring look in her eyes.

Suddenly, he's smiling. He opens his coat and a huge wad of

cash tumbles out. He throws it up into the air. Natalie almost

chokes with surprise.

She throws her arms around him...

Suddenly an EXPLOSION OF LIGHT! A flashlight. In the hand of

a MOTORCYCLE COP. He raps on the window...

The cop runs the flashlight over the bundles of cash littering

the car interior.

Bernie and Natalie exchange unsettled looks. The cop lowers

his hand to his gun. Bernie nods at Natalie. They climb out.

He directs them off to the side. Shines his light in their

faces.

The cop pulls out his revolver, trains it on them.

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. SHANGRI-LA UNDERGROUND PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT

Shelly opens the door to his Cadillac. Climbs behind the

wheel. His keys are already waiting in the ignition. Who's

gonna steal Shelly Kaplow's car, right?

Shelly doesn't start her up. He just leans back in his seat,

emits a deep sigh. He glances up at the rearview mirror.

Catches sight of a SILHOUETTE in the back.

INTERCUT WITH:

EXT. VEGAS HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Bernie and Natalie staring into the barrel of the cop's

revolver. Natalie clutches Bernie's arm. Bernie nods. So

there you have it.

They look at him in shock. He gestures them to the ground

behind Bernie's car. We CUT TO a shot from the highway: just

the cop standing at the tail-end of Bernie's car, Natalie

and Bernie hidden from view.

ON BERNIE AND NATALIE

down on their knees. Bernie places his arm around Natalie,

pulls her close to him. Paralyzed with terror, she still

manages a bittersweet smile.

Bernie should be projecting fear, but there's nothing but

his overwhelming love for Natalie in his eyes. It's a two

way current.

This is their last moment together; everything that needs to

be said is being transmitted through a look. A look that

says: no regrets.

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. SHELLY'S CADILLAC - NIGHT

Nicky leans forward out of the shadows. Shelly holds his

gaze in the mirror. Nicky just shrugs.

Shelly nods. He knows the score... A flash of steel appears

against his head. Muzzle strobe -- THUP! So long, Shelly

Kaplow.

EXT. VEGAS HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The cop looms over Bernie and Natalie. Cocks his pistol.

Lowers the gun to the back of Bernie's head.

They appear oblivious to it. They're already in another place.

Sunning themselves in the Bahamas.

The cop squeezes back the trigger.

ON BERNIE AND NATALIE

still looking at each other. Suddenly the piercing shriek of

SCREECHING TIRES... followed by a reverberating, bone

crunching --

WHAM! -- and a GUNSHOT.

Bernie and Natalie still staring into each other's eyes, not

quite sure what's just transpired. Only that they're still

breathing. They look around, startled to see the tail lights

of a PICK-UP TRUCK about ten yards away. The cop, their would-

be assassin, rendered road kill beneath the wheels.

All this in the blink of an eye.

Natalie clutches Bernie's arm. Suppresses a hysterical, shock-

induced giggle. Bernie just looks dumbfounded. He staggers

to his feet, rushes over to the pick-up truck. The driver's

head is protruding through the shattered windshield.

Death-glazed eyes.

Bernie feels for the man's pulse just to be sure. Shakes his

head. We see a dozen Coors empties on the seat and floor of

the truck.

Natalie checks the cop. Likewise. Bernie comes over. They

regard each other breathlessly.

He kisses her furiously. Then drags her over to his car.

They climb in. Drive off.

EXT. VEGAS HIGHWAY/INT. BERNIE'S BUICK - DAWN

Bernie's Buick racing into the sunrise. Racing toward the

dream. Bernie, eyes fixed on the road ahead, with the

contented smile of a man who has gambled on love -- and won.

His prize, resting her head against his shoulder.

The money, well, that ain't half bad as well. A smoky, trumpet

driven Chet Baker-like piece accentuates the triumphant mood

on the soundtrack, as we SUPERIMPOSE...

INT. PARADISE LOUNGE - NIGHT

...a little flash-forward into the future. Larry sits with a

group of CORPORATE TYPES.

They raise their glasses to him. Congenial smiles, one and

all. Smiles that don't transcend to their eyes. Promises,

promises. We'll see... DISSOLVING BACK INTO...

INT. BERNIE'S CAR - MOVING - DAWN

STARTING TIGHT on BERNIE and NATALIE speeding away from Sin

City, PULLING OUT and RISING above them (helicopter shot) as

we SUPERIMPOSE stock footage of all the old school casinos

being demolished. As we leave Vegas in the past... a Shangri-

la lost forever. Eulogized by Sinatra's LUCK BE A LADY.

FADE OUT.

