FADE IN:

INT. BEDROOM - APARTMENT - DAY

The sweet silence of slumber. Suddenly, an alarm clock on a

nightstand SHRIEKS the operatic tones of Maria Callas.

A well-manicured hand, nails painted pink, slaps the snooze

button and mutes Maria. A few seconds reprieve.

Then, another clock, stationed on a dresser, broadcasts the

FORTISSIMO POUNDING of the "William Tell Overture." Toes,

also painted pink, swing out of bed and run to the dresser.

LETTY MAYER, late 20s and beautiful, turns off the music.

She opens a dresser drawer and surveys panties that are

arranged by color, from white to beige to black. Behind the

panties are rows of bras, also organized by color. Letty

pulls out some taupe undergarments, checks them against her

nails and replaces them in favor of a pink bra and panties.

Letty goes to her closet and removes a tailored, pink linen

suit. She lays it on the bed. Beast, her cat, jumps on the

bed and settles into the jacket. Letty swoops the animal off

her clothes and brushes cat hair from the suit.

The scolding is cut short by an "Urge Overkill" song that

SCREAMS OUT from another room. On cue, Letty heads down the

hall, dressing as she goes. She CLUCKS for Beast to follow.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Letty turns off the alarm clock that BLASTS "Urge Overkill"

from the counter and checks the time against her watch.

She swings open a cupboard to look at cans of cat food

arranged by type. Seafood on the left, chicken in the

middle, then, naturally, beef. Letty reaches for a can.

Letty considers the cat a moment, and chooses another can.

INT. BATHROOM - SAME

Letty puts the finishing touches on her make-up and pulls

back her hair, plastering an errant curl into place with hair

spray. Yet another alarm clock sounds, this time BLARING the

voice of shock jocks MARK AND BRIAN.

INT. ENTRY HALL - SAME

Letty hurries down the hall and turns off the clock, which is

mounted near the front door. She bends down to kiss the cat

good-bye, grabs a briefcase and leaves.

EXT. HALLWAY - CHASEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY

A school bell BUZZES. Grade-schoolers, clutching lunch

pails, scurry past Letty, who stands outside an office door.

She straightens her jacket, takes a deep breath and starts to

turn the handle.

Letty is stopped cold when CHANDRA, 7, the victim of a bloody

nose, runs up to her, bawling.

Letty looks quickly at Chandra, her watch, the door.

She bends down and pushes back Chandra's head. Chandra, off

balance, places one very bloody hand on Letty's jacket lapel,

staining it for all eternity.

Letty, grimacing, takes the bloody hand firmly in her own and

guides Chandra down the hall, coaxing the child as she goes.

INT. PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - CHASEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - LATER

PRINCIPAL GAIL LAUER, 40s, sits in uncomfortable silence with

BILL JOHANSEN, the 50-something school Superintendent. Also

present are MRS. MONTES, who is a School Board Member, and

two other BOARD MEMBERS.

Principal Gail glances at the clock. Mrs. Montes taps her

foot. Johansen clears his throat.

The door bursts open. Letty stumbles into the room. She

clutches her briefcase to her chest, trying to cover her

blood-smeared lapel.

Letty continues to hug the briefcase while awkwardly bending

down to shake hands with Johansen and the others.

There is no response. Letty reluctantly lowers the briefcase

and reveals the stain.

Johansen smiles.

EXT. PLAYGROUND - CHASEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - LATER

A bunch of BOYS play kickball in a haze of sawdust. Chandra

sits on a bench, clamping an ice pack to her nose. JENNY, a

limber 8-year-old, hangs upside down from the jungle gym.

Letty talks on her CELL PHONE. She glances around to monitor

her wards, eyes darting like a hawk's toward the kickball

game.

Letty dials again. She sees two boys fighting over the ball

and moves in to break them up.

Brawl averted, out of the corner of her eye, Letty catches

Jenny make the daring Cherry Drop back flip off the bar. She

blows a series of ANGRY, STACCATO NOTES on her whistle.

The class bell BUZZES.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Tuxedoed waiters glide through the tony restaurant, where the

patrons dare speak only in hushed tones. Letty sits sipping

wine with her mother, MRS. MARTHA MAYER, immaculate in a

cream suit, young looking for her 50-odd years.

Letty's sister RUTH--early 20s and pretty, with flyaway hair

and an ever-present smile--bounds into the restaurant, oozing

happiness. Letty discretely waves her over.

Letty pours her a glass of wine.

Letty removes the nasty hair from her blouse.

Ruth smiles at her, but vacantly.

Ruth stares around the restaurant, a shit-eating grin

plastered across her face.

Letty passes her hand in front of Ruth's eyes.

Ruth can't hold it a moment longer without bursting.

Mrs. Mayer's eyes immediately fill with tears. Ruth leaps up

and hugs her mother. Other diners glance toward the table.

One WOMAN IN THE RESTAURANT taps the side of her glass with

her fork and raises a silent toast to Ruth. Other DINERS

follow suit. Ruth grins back and starts to giggle.

Mrs. Mayer dabs her eyes with her napkin.

Ruth dashes around the table to embrace the stunned Letty.

Ruth sits back down and pulls a gorgeous ring from her purse.

She slips it on and wiggles her finger in front of Letty and

her mother, who peers at it with approval.

Off Letty's frozen smile, we

INT. BEDROOM - LETTY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Letty's in bed, drawing a giant multiplication chart. PAUL

LASCHER, early 30s, handsome in a corporate way, shrugs off

his expensive suit.

He opens a drawer of Letty's dresser, and removes a neatly

pressed T-shirt. He smooths out another shirt he has

accidently rumpled in the process.

Paul lays his folded trousers across Letty's desk.

Paul sits on the bed, and leans against a pillow.

Letty holds up her multiplication chart and shows it to Paul.

Paul kisses Letty on the cheek.

Letty hugs Paul.

Letty sensually caresses his shoulders.

Letty continues coloring her multiplication chart.

Letty puts the chart down and sits up straighter.

INT. CLASSROOM - CHASEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY

Letty rubs her eyes with fatigue.    Bobby stands next to her

holding a crumpled paper bag.

The children perk up at this news.

Bobby opens the bag. He reaches in to remove the turtle. The

children TITTER. Letty's on him in a second.

She grabs the bag. From outside, there is a KNOCK.     Letty

and the students look toward the window.

It's Ruth. She's been crying.   She waves to Letty.    Chandra

waves back at Ruth.

Letty puts up her finger to signal "just a minute" to Ruth.

She sets the turtle bag on Bobby's desk.

Ruth knocks on the glass again. Letty glances at her

distraught sister and walks quickly toward the door.

Letty leaves the room. The class watches through the window

as Ruth throws her sobbing self into Letty's arms.

EXT. HALLWAY - CHASEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - SAME

Letty glances through the window at her classroom, where

Bobby waves the turtle over his head.

Letty looks again at the classroom, where the students are

lobbing the turtle back and forth.

Letty's attention snaps back to Ruth.

Ruth starts to sob--big, loud, air-gulping sobs.   Letty pats

her shoulder.

Principal Gail, trolling the halls, spies Letty with Ruth.

She dispatches a stern look in Letty's direction.

Ruth grabs Letty in another hug.

INT. CLASSROOM - SAME

Letty strides into the classroom, pulls the turtle away from

Bobby and drops it in the trash.

Zach approaches the board and begins to write, "I am..."    He

doesn't get any further before Letty cuts him off.

Zach begins again, but Letty stops him when he reaches "am."

Zach looks back toward his classmates for help.

Letty picks up a piece of chalk and writes an "a." She

erases it furiously and works at it until the "a" is perfect.

Letty jabs at the board with a piece of chalk. Zach freezes.

He sees Letty's shoes, her arm, her contorted face, and,

above all else, that perfect "a" staring right back down at

him.

Letty grips Zach's arm, guiding the chalk to form what looks

like a pretty good "a."

Letty's fingers press into Zach's arm. A tear slides

ominously down his cheek.

Zach wrests free of Letty. He's in full cry now. He backs

away, stumbles, then makes a run for his seat. Bobby

SNICKERS at Zach's misfortune. Other children glance around,

unsure, confused.

Letty looks vacantly at the children, stares at the board and

looks at the children again.

She sits down at her desk and buries her face in her hands.

Letty's fists, clenched at first, slowly relax. She takes a

deep breath and raises her head.

Zach continues to cry. Letty looks down at her desk. She

grabs a piece of construction paper and a jar of paste.

Letty jumps up. She slaps the paper on the wall with some

paste. She motions for the students to join her.

The children slowly approach her. Zach lags behind.

INT. BEDROOM - LETTY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Letty lies in bed. The alarm clock BLASTS opera. Letty

fumbles for the switch. She can't turn it off. She yanks

out the cord.

L

Letty gets out of bed, walks to the dresser and turns off the

second clock before it rings. She goes to the KITCHEN and

snaps off the alarm, then heads down the HALLWAY and shuts

that alarm off, as well.

Letty hurries back to her BEDROOM and crawls into bed.   Paul,

toweling his hair dry, walks in.

Paul sits on the bed and puts his hand to Letty's forehead.

Letty starts to cry.

Paul touches Letty's shoulder. She pulls away from him.

Letty nods her head, and Paul grabs a legal pad from his

briefcase.

INT. CLASSROOM - CHASEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - NIGHT

MR. and MRS. ANDERSON, over-eager parents, sit across the

desk from Letty, who stares at the legal pad in her lap. As

the Andersons talk, Letty twists a lock of hair tighter and

tighter.

Letty tries unsuccessfully to extricate her hand from her

hair.

Letty stares blankly at the couple.

Off Mr. Anderson's raised eyebrow, we

INT. LIVING ROOM - LETTY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The room is a mess of scattered papers and the math Twister

game. Letty sits on the ground crying. She makes a pyramid

out of the wadded-up tissues that surround her.

INT. BRIDAL SHOP - DAY

The upscale shop is festooned with pastels and lace and lots

of signs announcing "Sale Day." Frenzied women pick through

dresses as "Pachelbel's Canon" plays in the background.

Letty is wedged into a corner, sipping coffee. A CLERK

approaches her with a coffee pot and tray of pastries.

Ruth bounces into the shop.

The clerk gives Ruth an approving smile as Letty rips into a

sweet roll. Ruth looks through a nearby rack of gowns.

Ruth pulls a dress from the rack and holds it up.

Ruth looks closer at Letty.

Letty self-consciously touches her eyes.

Ruth is trying on a veil at this point.

Letty sighs, moves to the racks and pulls out a dress.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - LATER

R

discarded dresses from the floor and hangs them up.

Martha Mayer is led in by the clerk.

Letty and Ruth shoot each other a look of doom.

INT. BRIDAL SHOP - LATER

A bedraggled Letty and her mother fight the crowds to look at

dresses. They are bumped and jostled from all sides.

Ruth comes out of the dressing room in another gown.

Mrs. Mayer holds up an ornate dress.

Letty takes the gown and disappears into the dressing room.

INT. BRIDAL SHOP - LATER

Letty emerges from the dressing room.

Letty peers around the corner, becoming a tad frantic. But

neither her mother nor Ruth is to be found. It's just Letty,

resplendent in ecru satin.

Letty pushes back her veil, sits down on the floor and takes

a sip of her now-cold coffee.

INT. LETTY'S LIVING/DINING ROOM - EVENING

A "House and Garden" picture of elegance. Letty, Paul, Ruth

and Jake stand at nervous attention, decked out in their

Sunday best.

A KNOCK marks the first arrival. Letty opens the door to her

mother, who does a quick reconnaissance of the room.

The doorbell RINGS. Letty greets her father, a mid 50s

business type, and his wife MONICA, a younger version of

Letty's mother.

Suddenly, the parents are face-to-face, Letty standing

between them.

The two Mrs. Mayers make appropriate MURMURS. Letty's

parents stare each other down. Ruth shifts from foot to foot.

Silence falls in the room with a thump.

Ruth takes a dramatic gulp of air. The evening hangs in the

balance. Finally,

INT. LIVING ROOM - LETTY'S APARTMENT - LATER

Mr. Mayer and Monica cozy up to each other on the love seat

while Mrs. Mayer, Ruth and Paul sit on the opposite couch.

Letty passes hors d'oeuvres, and Jake doles out napkins.

Uncomfortable silence falls on the party. Monica wipes the

edge of Mr. Mayer's mouth with her napkin.

Ruth looks at Letty nervously.

Mrs. Mayer clears her throat.    More silence.

Letty leaves with Paul hot on her heels.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Letty shakes the martinis while Paul gets out the glasses.

Ruth enters the kitchen and sidles up to Letty.

Paul hands Letty the olive bottle.

Letty skewers olives and puts them in the martinis. Bits of

fleck rise from the olives, then swim to the tops of the

glasses.

Letty grabs the olive bottle.

Letty stands still, fixated on the olive bottle.

Ruth holds up a glass.

Jake enters.   The three turn on him.

Jake whirls around and exits.

Letty looks for olives, banging open the cupboards one after

the other. Quicker and quicker. More and more frantic.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME

Jake, Mr. Mayer, Monica and Mrs. Mayer stare at each other,

listening with alarm to the wild slamming of cupboards in the

kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Letty paws through her purse.

Letty turns her best school marm look on Paul. He hands over

a crisp bill.

Letty leaves from the kitchen's back door. Ruth heads to the

living room. Paul leans wearily against the counter,

savoring one of the herb-filled martinis.

INT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT

Fluorescent lights beat down on Letty. She races through the

aisles. She clutches her keys in one hand, a $20 bill in the

other. Letty careens around a corner. At the last second,

she avoids smacking into another shopper. She stops.

L

LETTY'S POV:

Shelf after shelf of olives...black olives...all black.

BACK TO SCENE:

Letty darts up and down the aisle, searching, searching.

Nothing.

Letty scurries to the front of the store. She taps a STORE

CLERK on the shoulder. Six people waiting in line mutter,

annoyed.

Letty whips down an aisle.    She starts to sweat.

An OLD LADY blocks her path.

Letty pauses.    She reaches up and hands the woman a can of

food.

Letty grabs another can, throws it in the Old Lady's cart and

darts away while the Old Lady continues to talk.

LETTY'S POV:

The sign for Aisle 2A.    Olives.   Lots of them.   Green.   All

shapes. All sizes.

BACK TO SCENE:

Letty's shoulders relax.    She scans the shelf.

LETTY's POV:

Labels of olives: big, small, with pimentos, without.        None

from Puglia, Italy.

BACK TO SCENE:

Letty zooms back to the front of the store.      To the clerk.

She gets no response from the clerk, who counts change for a

customer. Letty gestures wildly with her hands.

Letty's off again. To the land of pink peppercorns,

dehydrated mushrooms and Chinese 5-Spice. But no olives.

Not a single bottle.

L

Letty paws through the shelves, knocking things over as she

scours the aisle. She is oblivious to the mess that

surrounds her.

An EMPLOYEE with a price checker walks half-way down the

aisle. He spots Letty and rushes away.

More and more items crash to the ground.   Letty is beyond

frenzied.

Letty pounds her fist against the shelf. More goods fall.

Shoppers stare. The Manager rushes toward Letty.

She gestures. She knocks over a bottle of fat-free

Lingonberry preserves. It crashes to the floor, spewing jam.

The Manager places his hand on the small of Letty's back as

if to guide her out of the store. Letty backs away. The

manager grabs hold of her wrist.

Letty whacks him in the shoulder with her free hand. She

pushes him away. Hard. He staggers against the opposite

shelf.

Customers and employees gather at both ends of the aisle,

riveted by the spectacle.

Letty takes her arm and slides a shelf-full of products onto

the floor. They crash and break. She screams.

Two SECURITY GUARDS turn the corner.   Letty spots them.   One

creeps closer.

Guard One continues to approach, cooing encouragingly. Letty

throws a jar at him. It clips him in the head. He turns

away, bleeding. Guard Two pulls out a billy club.

Letty stops. Dazed. She turns around. Guard Two walks toward

her. His stance suggests he's stalking a wild animal.

Letty tries to brush off the jam that dribbles down her

skirt. She looks to both ends of the aisle.

LETTY'S POV:

Faces, dozens and dozens of faces, stare down at her.   People

point. One boy LAUGHS.

BACK TO SCENE:

Letty backs against the shelf. She slides down it until she

is sitting on the floor. She buries her head in her knees,

sobbing.

FADE IN:

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

The room is furnished like a Hyatt Hotel minus anything you

might use to kill yourself. Letty sleeps.

MICHAEL, mid 30's, in jeans and T-shirt, sits in a chair next

to the bed. He looks intently at Letty, checks his watch and

taps her on the shoulder. She stirs.

LETTY'S POV:

Everything's a morning blur. Gradually, items come into

focus -- the intercom for the nurse, the door with a window

in it, the three tissue boxes on the bedside table. It's a

hospital, all right. Letty's vision is filled suddenly by

Michael's concerned face peering into hers.

BACK TO SCENE:

Letty pulls herself up to a sitting position.

Letty nods.

Michael waits.

L

Letty smiles uncomfortably.

Letty smiles, a real smile this time.

Letty shakes her head "no."

Letty pauses.

Michael leans closer.

Letty tears up.   Michael puts his hand lightly on her arm.

Letty gives him an appreciative look.

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - LATER

Letty, dressed and made up, sits rigidly on the bed. She

writes in her organizer. DR. ROBERT EMLEE, early 40s and in

jeans, enters with his own organizer.

Dr. Emlee shifts uncomfortably.

Letty sinks back on her pillows, the wind knocked out of her.

LETTY'S POV:

Dr. Emlee continues to talk. His words become more and more

distant as the RINGING in Letty's head grows louder.

CUT TO:

INT. REC ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - SAME

It's a bigger version of a waiting room you'd find in a

doctor's office. And it has more games.

Some patients watch television. Others play pool. Several

form a group around Michael, who holds the same notebook he

used in his session with Letty. JOHN, unkempt in a bathrobe,

hands him a few ratty dollar bills.

THOMAS, late 40s and in a suit, waves a $5 bill at Michael.

Michael takes the money, and turns to MARIE, late 30s.

Michael motions to MRS. HALLSTROM, mid 50s, who shuffles by.

Mrs. Hallstrom keeps walking.

INT. HALLWAY - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Letty lags behind NURSE GATES, early 30s and in civilian

clothes, as they walk down the hall.

Letty nods.

Letty stops in her tracks at the sight of the room, an

upscale version of a college cafeteria. Groups of people eat

and talk. A paper airplane sails from one table to another.

INT. DINING HALL - SAME

Nurse Gates guides Letty to a table where John, Mrs.

Hallstrom, Marie and Thomas sit.

John snorts. Thomas ignores him.   Mrs. Hallstrom stares down

at her plate.

Nurse Gates leads Letty to a table, and hands her a plate.

Letty looks up to see Michael at the other end of the table,

doing a card trick for two OTHER PATIENTS.

He flips the top card up and it's the Ace of Spades.       The

patients chortle.

Michael turns toward the nurse.

Letty stares at Michael coldly.

Letty turns and leaves, carrying her empty plate with her.

Nurses Gates hurries after Letty.

EXT. HALLWAY - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty stands outside the waiting room door.       She tucks her

blouse into her jeans and enters.

INT. WAITING ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty's mother sits on the edge of a couch in a room that

looks much like the library of an English country manor. She

springs up as soon as she spots Letty. They rush to each

other. Letty's mother strokes her hair.

Letty listens, waits, can't absorb it.

Mrs. Mayer holds out a duffel bag to Letty.

Letty refuses to accept the duffel bag. Her mother sets it

on the floor and stands. Letty is five again.

Letty's mother holds her. Mrs. Mayer, crying, pulls away

from Letty. She kisses her daughter on the cheek.

Letty's mother walks out the door.    Letty stares after her.

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Letty, crying, unpacks her duffel bag, laboriously smoothing

and refolding every item she puts in the drawer.

Finishing her task, Letty goes to the mirror and stares at

her reflection. Finally, she fixes her makeup.

Letty leaves her room. We follow her FOOTSTEPS down the

hallway. In the distance, Letty sees the Rec Room. She

hears the CLAMOR of voices. Every step is agony.

Letty stops herself just before entering, trying to collect

herself.

Sick realization spreads over Letty's face.

Letty freezes. Michael rounds the corner. He stops when he

sees her, falters, recovers his composure.

INT. REC ROOM - SAME

Patients are grouped in front of the TV, watching Bill

Murray. Heads turn as they hear shouting in the hallway.

Not even a moment's hesitation before, one by one, they get

up and hurry to the hall. Only Mrs. Hallstrom remains.

INT. HALLWAY - SAME

John, Marie and others gather around the fighters.

Letty pounds her fist against the wall.

Letty looks like she's been slapped. She thinks for a

moment. The patients wait, breathless, for her retort.

Michael grins at Letty. She turns, and strides down the

hall. There's a smattering of applause. It grows stronger.

We see Letty's eyes fill with tears as, behind her, the

patients yell.

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Letty, unable to sleep, tosses and turns. She gets out of

bed and paces the room nervously, trying to hold herself

together. She slumps to the floor and starts to cry.

INT. GROUP THERAPY ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

D

chairs. Michael, who sits next to Emlee, practices rolling a

quarter back and forth across his fingers.

Letty sits across from Michael and Emlee, her legs and arms

crossed tightly. The group concentrates on Mrs. Hallstrom.

Michael, sitting next to Mrs. Hallstrom, squeezes her arm.

Group members smile.

The group looks expectantly at Letty.

Michael grimaces at John.   Letty's head is bent down.

Letty eyes the doctor.   She's dangerously close to tears.

Michael reaches his hand behind Dr. Emlee's head, catching

Letty's eye in the process. Michael pulls a silver dollar out

of Emlee's ear.

Letty looks but doesn't respond. The other patients ignore

Michael. Emlee is oblivious.

Michael goes for a bigger trick. Reaching again behind the

doctor's head, he produces a small bouquet of paper flowers.

Letty, almost against her will, smiles.

Michael waves the flowers back and forth behind the doctor's

head. Letty's smile broadens.

INT. LIBRARY - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty ponders a shelf of ratty paperbacks. Michael turns the

corner, thumbing through a dog-eared book. Letty spots him

and moves away. Michael sidles up next to her.

Michael holds out his book to her.

Letty glances at the title, "101 MAGIC TRICKS."

Michael reaches behind Letty. She pulls away. He produces a

scarf from behind her back, and presents it to her. She

doesn't take it.

Letty walks away.   Michael follows.

Letty hesitates.

Michael drops to one knee.

Letty takes the book from him and walks away.

INT. REC ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty sits in an arm chair staring out at the garden. Her

attention is drawn to a nearby couch where Michael sits

opposite Mrs. Hallstrom, apparently playing cards.

Michael lays a card down.

She shakes her head slowly back and forth.   Michael places it

in her hand of cards.

Mrs. Hallstrom slowly spreads her hand of cards on the couch.

Mrs. Hallstrom smiles. Michael catches Letty watching them,

and Letty quickly looks away.

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Letty opens her drawer to pull out a T-shirt. Several are

rumpled. She starts refolding them when she spots it.

There, nestled among her clothes, is a book of Emily

Dickinson's poetry. Letty picks it up, runs her hand over

the cover and starts reading.

EXT. COURTYARD - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Paul and Letty walk onto a postcard-perfect stone terrace

overlooking the garden. Paul pulls up a chair for Letty and

stares out at the scenery.

Paul takes Letty's hand in his.

Paul pulls a diamond ring from his pocket and puts it on

Letty's finger. She stares at it, mesmerized.

Letty looks him in the eyes for the first time.

Paul and Letty kiss, then hug.

EXT. COURTYARD - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - LATER

It's completely dark. Letty sits in the same position we saw

her in hours ago. Michael walks up to her.

Letty holds out her hand, where the diamond glistens. Michael

bends forward to look at the ring, caressing her hand as he

does so.

Letty pulls away. The ring is gone.

Letty stands up.

Michael holds his hands in fists toward Letty.

Michael opens his hand.   It's empty.   Michael addresses an

imaginary audience.

Michael opens his right hand. A plastic, Cracker-jack ring

rests in it.

Michael grabs Letty's hand and slides the ring onto her

finger.

Letty pulls her hand away.

Letty holds out her hand.

Letty stares at him.    She laughs.

Michael moves close to her.

Letty looks into his eyes.

Michael and Letty kiss, long and deep. Letty pulls back.

She gazes at Michael. She steps closer to him.

They kiss again, longer and deeper.

They separate. Letty looks ready for another kiss.   Michael

caresses her cheek.

He walks back toward the hospital door. He stops, comes back

to Letty. He hands her the diamond ring.

He walks inside.   Letty watches him go.

INT. DR. EMLEE'S OFFICE - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Dr. Emlee and Letty sit across from each other.

INT. MICHAEL'S ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Darkness. Michael sleeps. A Christmas Carol BLASTS through

the intercom system.

Michael bolts awake. He stumbles out of bed, in wildly

striped boxers, and races toward the hall.

INT.   HALLWAY - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - SAME

Doors open like kernels of popcorn exploding.   Michael,

Marie, Thomas, John, then Letty.

The music BLARES on. Nurse Gates runs down the hall and

shouts to Michael.

The music lowers. Mrs. Hallstrom, in a Santa cap, appears.

She distributes erasers as she threads through the patients.

Mrs. Hallstrom gives an eraser to the nurse.

Nurse Gates leads Mrs. Hallstrom away as the older woman

continues tossing erasers down the hall.

Marie stares at Michael's shorts.

Michael smiles awkwardly at Letty. She returns to her room.

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - SAME

Letty climbs into bed. She opens the bedside drawer, and

pulls out a Tiffany's ring box. There, cradled in the satin

lining, is the diamond from Paul. Right beside it is

Michael's Cracker Jack special.

L

Letty puts on Paul's ring. She studies her hand. With an air

of secrecy, she slips on Michael's ring. She quickly takes

it off. Wearing Paul's ring, she turns off the light and

snuggles into bed.

EXT. GARDEN, HILLV IEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Afternoon light casts long shadows in the garden of pruned

hedges and tea roses. Letty and Ruth power-walk down a

cobblestone path, heading away from the English Tudor

hospital that looms large in the background.

Letty wears a sweatshirt emblazoned with the logo for the

University of South Carolina Cocks.

Letty checks her stop watch.

Letty completely stops and faces Ruth.

They start walking again.

Ruth stops this time.

Power walking's forgotten.   Ruth and Letty start to amble.

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Nurse Gates passes by the open door, and pokes her head in.

Letty closes the door. She pulls a nightshirt from a drawer,

disrupting a perfectly-folded T-shirt. Letty bends down to

straighten it, but changes her mind. She shuts the drawer.

Letty puts on the nightshirt, crawls into bed and snaps off

the light. She fluffs her pillow, and turns over. She rolls

back.

Letty turns on the light. She goes to the drawer, opens it,

pulls out the T-shirt and refolds it. She shuts the drawer.

Letty yanks open the drawer again and looks at her handiwork.

It's a fight with the drawer. Opened and closed. Until Letty

takes a deep breath, pulls it open a final time, hesitantly

ruffles the T-shirt and slams the drawer shut.

She runs to bed and hops in, turning off the light and

burying her head under the pillow.

A few moments pass.

A KNOCK on the door. Letty opens it to find Michael.

Michael takes Letty's hand and pulls her toward the door.

Michael checks the hallway and pulls Letty into it.

Letty forges ahead to the nurses' station, while Michael

turns a corner in the hall, peeking out so he can watch Letty

approach Nurse Gates.

NURSES' STATION - SAME

Letty and Nurse Gates walk down the hall to Letty's room,

passing the alcove where Michael lurks in the shadows. He

sneaks into the main hall and pads up to the nurses' station.

NURSES' STATION - SAME

Michael wanders around the desk, crouches on the floor so he

can't be seen from the hallway and pulls the phone down to

his level. He dials.

Michael reaches up to a hook and grabs a white lab coat. He

puts on the coat, which identifies him as "Val Williams."

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - SAME

Letty and Nurse Gates, sprawled on their stomachs, peer under

the bed.

Nurse Gates looks Letty squarely in the eye.

Off Letty's look of dismay, we

EXT. GUARD STATION - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - SAME

Michael pays the DOMINO'S PIZZA MAN and tries to walk past

the guard, JIM, who blocks his path.

Reluctantly, Michael opens the pizza box, and Jim helps

himself to two slices. Michael starts to shut the box. Jim

reaches in for a third slice.

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - SAME

Letty and Nurse Gates sit cross-legged on the bed, facing

each other. Letty's face is puffy from crying.

Michael passes the open door with the pizza box and points

down the hall. Letty stares right through him.

INT. LINEN CLOSET - LATER

The roomy closet houses an inconceivable number of white

sheets and towels, arranged on wide, tall shelves.

The pizza, cokes and a candle sit in the middle of the floor,

which Michael has draped with a sheet. Michael stares at the

dwindling candle.                                  C

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - SAME

Nurse Gates nods sympathetically.

Michael passes the open door again, waving his hands wildly

to attract Letty's attention. She doesn't notice him.

INT. LINEN CLOSET - SAME

Michael blows out the candle.

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - SAME

Letty blows her nose as she walks Nurse Gates to the door.

Letty gives Nurse Gates a hug.

INT. LINEN CLOSET - SAME

TAPS on the door. Michael looks up. He jumps to his feet

and lets Letty in, gesturing for her to sit. They lean

against a stack of pillows.

Michael puts his finger to Letty's lips.

A SERIES OF SHOTS THAT FADE INTO EACH OTHER:

A.) The two munch on pizza. Michael picks off black olives

and hands them to Letty, who plops them on top of her pizza.

B.) Michael hands Letty a cigarette. She gestures no.       He

lights one for himself and begins blowing smoke rings.

C.) Michael offers Letty pizza.     She clutches her stomach to

show that she's full.

D.) Letty indicates she wants a cigarette. Michael

demonstrates how to smoke, affecting the style of a 1930s

movie star. Letty follows suit.

E

pulls the pillow away from her. Letty stands up, grabs

another pillow and hits Michael again. He whacks her in the

back of the knees and she falls on top of him.

Enough of the fighting.    They kiss.   Michael strokes the back

of Letty's neck.

FOOTSTEPS approach the door and stop. Michael and Letty stop

kissing and look at the door. The FOOTSTEPS continue on.

Michael pulls Letty's shirt up. She starts to pull it over

her head, but can't get it all the way off in the cramped

space. Michael kisses Letty's mouth through the shirt. She

GIGGLES. Michael helps Letty off with the shirt.

He kisses her chest.    Letty bites him lightly on the

shoulder.

Michael pulls away in surprise, grinning. Letty reaches up

and bites him again. Michael bites her back.

Letty reaches her hands behind her head, searching for

something to hold onto. She grabs a stack of sheets, which

topple onto Michael.

Michael sits up, trying to clear the sheets off himself and

Letty. Letty pushes him down and crawls on top of him.

CLOSE ON her hands as they unbutton Michael's Levis, and we

INT. REC. ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Mrs. Hallstrom sits close to the television, watching Joan

Rivers hawk jewelry on the Home Shopping Network. Michael

drapes the room with streamers, and surveys his work.

Michael sees Letty pass by the room as she heads down the

hall. He follows her.

INT.   WOMEN'S ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Marie enters with her toothbrush and toothpaste.   She moves

towards the sink but stops as...

GIGGLES come from the stall. She looks closer, sees two

pairs of feet and one familiar pair of boxers.

Marie walks out.

INT. STALL - WOMEN'S ROOM - SAME

Letty and Michael, partially disrobed and hugging each other

tight, burst into GUFFAWS.

INT.   EMLEE'S OFFICE - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty sits on the couch.   Emlee leans forward in his chair.

EXT. GROUNDS - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty lies in the middle of a copse of trees, reading Emily

Dickinson. Michael walks up and hands her a dandelion.

Letty kisses him on the cheek.

Letty laughs.

He waits for Letty to register the information.

Lying on their backs, Michael and Letty stare up at the

leaves overhead.

Michael and Letty hug.

INT. NURSES' STATION - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Nurse Gates pours tablets from a potpourri of pill bottles

into little paper cups. A Federal Express delivery man with

a bunch of boxes stops at the station.

Nurse Gates looks at the form.

Nurse Gates locks the medication in a cupboard, and hurries

down the hallway.

INT. GROUP THERAPY ROOM - SAME

Our usual cast of characters.

Nurse Gates barrels in.   The group looks up.

M

She runs out. Nurse Gates follows her. A moment passes.    The

patients look expectantly at Dr. Emlee.

They storm the door.

INT. NURSES' STATION - SAME

By the time the patients round the corner, the Federal

Express man is leaving, and Mrs. Hallstrom has ripped open

one of the boxes. She clutches a handful of jewelry.

She hands Michael a pair of faux sapphire earrings. He clips

them on. Letty and several others carry necklaces. Thomas

sports a rhinestone tiara. The patients compare jewelry.

Mrs. Hallstrom hands Dr. Emlee a fake ruby hair comb.

Chatter in the hallway stops.

The patients reluctantly remove their gifts.

The patients head back to group.   Dr. Emlee turns to Nurse

Gates.

EXT. PATIO - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

The place buzzes with festivity. A "WELCOME FAMILIES" sign

hangs from a patio beam. A table is laden with cookies and

lemonade and platter after platter of carrot curls.

Letty takes a cookie and looks toward the lawn where Michael

plays frisbee with his family, even his grandmother, ROSA.

Nurse Gates walks up to Letty.

INT. REC ROOM - SAME

Letty passes Mrs. Hallstrom, who sits by herself, holding one

small gift on her lap.

Letty spots her Mom across the room, and walks up to her.

Her mother has covered a table with swatches of fabric.

Letty examines a fabric sample.

Letty rearranges the fabric samples on the table by color.

Letty holds up a swatch of bright yellow.

Letty pulls out a cigarette, lights it and starts smoking.

Letty grinds the cigarette beneath her heel.    She bends over

the fabrics.

Thomas, who sits across the room, looks up from his book.

Letty races out the door and into the garden. In the

distance, Michael spots her and jogs over. Letty's mother

watches them. Thomas approaches Mrs. Mayer.

I

Letty and Michael walk through the rec room toward the dining

hall. Nurse Gates bends down in front of Mrs. Hallstrom, who

sits where we last saw her.

Letty and Michael stop.

Michael and Letty walk on, exchanging a sad look.

INT. DINING HALL - LATER

Mr. Santucci and Mrs. Santucci sit at the heads of the table.

Letty sits between Rosa and Michael.

Letty heaps more food on her plate.

Mrs. Hallstrom walks into the room, wearing her Christmas

stocking cap. She starts to dispense erasers.

Mrs. Hallstrom, practically skipping, zeros in on Grandma

Rosa. She hands Rosa the gift meant for her daughter.

But, by this point, Mrs. Hallstrom's already bounded away,

divesting herself of more and more erasers to bewildered

parents and delighted children.

She clambers onto a table in the middle of the room. Marie

gets up from another table and leaves the room to get help.

Michael pushes back his chair.   He's trapped between the

table and the wall.

She takes off her cap and tosses it to a surprised looking

man. But she doesn't stop there. With haphazard abandon, she

begins to disrobe, first her blouse, then her skirt.

The group looks on in horror, mesmerized by her behavior.

Then, almost as one, the patients spring into action.

Michael bolts over his dining table and runs to Mrs.

Hallstrom. He jumps onto her table, trying to restrain the

dancing woman so he can wrap his sweater around her.

By this time, John, Thomas and Letty have surrounded her in a

protective enclave. Michael sets Mrs. Hallstrom on the

ground. She looks up at the group, and continues belting out

I

"Jingle Bells."

Letty and Michael lie on the floor next to each other,

trading puffs on a cigarette. The glowing ember is the only

light in the room.

They smoke for a while.

Michael sits up.

Michael lies down.

Michael and Letty lie still, looking into each others eyes.

INT. MICHAEL'S ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

P

card decks all over.

Michael stops. His eyes glaze over.        His head darts toward

the corner of the room.

Nothing's there.   Nothing at all.    But Michael keeps staring.

A KNOCK on the door. Michael's eyes refocus.       He opens the

door to find Letty.

Letty hands him the Cracker Jack ring.

INT. COMMITMENT COURT - DAY

Michael sits near the front of the courtroom with half a

dozen other patients from various institutions.

Nurse Gates sits a few rows back near JOHN'S MOTHER and

Michael's family--Mr. and Mrs. Santucci and Grandma Rosa.

JUDGE MILTON, 60s, questions John, who's on the stand.

John's mother nods encouragingly at him.

John points to her.   John's mother waves at the judge.

As bailiffs remove John from the stand, Michael offers a wan

smile to his family.

INT. COMMITMENT COURT - LATER

Michael, outwardly poised and collected, sits on the stand.

His hands are clenched in tight fists.

Michael's shoulders relax. He opens his fist. Inside is the

Cracker Jack ring, and the magenta circle it has imprinted on

his palm.

EXT. COMMITMENT COURT - LATER

Michael walks to the car with his mother, father and

grandmother, who keeps tousling his hair with pride.

INT. VISITING ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty stands awkwardly in front of Paul, who sits in a

wingback chair.

Paul stands.

Paul considers this a moment.

EXT. FRONT STEPS - SAME

Paul walks out the door and down the steps past Michael, who

runs up them two at a time.

Paul turns to watch Michael as Michael swings open the door

and sails into the institute.

INT. VISITING ROOM - SAME

Letty waits as a NURSE opens the door to the ward.   Letty is

about to step through, when Michael enters.

Letty whirls around.

Letty and Michael hug.

The nurse retreats.

INT. HALLWAY - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Letty sits in the corridor opposite Marie and Thomas.   They

are playing BLACKJACK. Letty deals.

Letty hands one over.    Thomas flips over his cards.

Letty looks to Marie, who waves her off. Marie is fine with

her cards. They look down the hall. Nurse Gates walks beside

JAMIE, a man in his late 20s, who wears the same dazed

expression Letty did the morning after she was admitted.

Nurse Gates and Jamie come upon the gang.

Nurse Gates continues down the hall, hand firmly planted

under Jamie's elbow as he weaves unsteadily beside her.

They look down the hall at the retreating figures.   They look

at each other.

INT. DR. EMLEE'S OFFICE - DAY

Letty is curled up in a chair opposite Dr. Emlee.

Off Letty's excited face, we

EXT. TARGET - DAY

Crowds, crowds and more crowds. Michael pulls unsuccessfully

at a shopping cart that is stuck to another.

A MATRONLY WOMAN walks up, nudges Michael out of the way and

yanks the cart out of its row. She rolls it toward Michael,

grabs one for herself and is on her way into the store.

M

step, he heads into the great unknown of the crowded store...

EXT. TARGET - 30 MINUTES LATER

Michael emerges from the store, quite pleased with himself

that he made it out alive. He commands a cart heaped full of

useless gadgets and trinkets, a half dozen picture frames and

about 20 decorative pillows.

EXT. GROUNDS - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty and her mother walk briskly through the gardens.

Letty slackens her pace.

Letty stops and wags her finger at her mother.

Mother and daughter keep walking in silence.

The two walk on in silence.

Silence.

More silence.

Letty stops walking. She turns a sunny smile on her mother,

then hugs her.      L

INT. LETTY'S ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty neatly folds garments and lays them in a suitcase.    Dr.

Emlee looks on.

Letty puts her hand in her suitcase and rummages through the

clothes, creating a jumbled mess. She snaps the luggage

closed. Bits of clothing hang out. They LAUGH.

INT. NURSES' STATION - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty sets her duffel bag down next to two suitcases. She

hugs Marie, John, Thomas, then walks over to Mrs. Hallstrom,

who hangs back from the group. Letty embraces her.

There's no response.    Letty goes to Nurse Gates and hugs her.

Letty walks toward Michael, who gathers up her bags.

Michael and Letty walk through the VISITING ROOM...

They walk out the doors onto the FRONT STEPS OF THE HOSPITAL.

Michael grabs Letty's hand as they hurry down the steps.

EXT. SANTA BARBARA MISSION - MAGIC HOUR

In the background, the Spanish-style mission blends into the

hillside. Letty and Michael sit on a bluff, holding hands.

They look out at the ocean, where the sun heads toward the

waves in a fiery red glow.

INT. HALLWAY - MICHAEL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Michael and Letty walk down the hall. Michael stops at a door

and showcases it. He jingles the keys.

Letty claps her hands over her eyes.    Michael opens the door

and guides her into his castle.

INT. MICHAEL'S APARTMENT - SAME

Letty surveys the territory. Forget tables, chairs and

couches. Throw pillows are strewn everywhere.

Letty picks up a pillow and runs her hand over the fabric.

She pauses a moment before speaking.

Michael leads Letty to the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME

A futon bed, draped with a mosquito net, rests in the corner.

Two TVs take center stage.

Michael grabs her hand and pulls her toward the door.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Michael kisses Letty on the lips.

Off Letty's look of surprise, we watch Michael open a

cupboard door. The shelves are filled from top to bottom

with cans of Spaghetti-O's.

Letty squeezes Michael in a bear hug.

INT. BEDROOM - MICHAEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Letty, in a T-shirt, and Michael, in boxers, lounge on the

futon. They watch both TVs -- one tuned-in to Jay Leno, the

other to David Letterman.

Michael eats from a can of Spaghetti-O's. Letty reaches over

with her fork and snags a mouthful from Michael's can.

Letty takes her remote and increases the volume on her TV.

As Letterman gets louder, Michael zaps his volume.

It's a war. Letterman then Leno get LOUDER and LOUDER and

LOUDER until Letty makes a might lunge. She wrests Michael's

remote from him. Letty MUTES both TVs.

Michael mockingly checks his watch.    Letty climbs on top of

him. Michael rolls on top of her.

CLOSE on their faces as Michael gently licks the side of

Letty's mouth.

Michael licks Letty's nose.

Michael and Letty look into each other's eyes, bathed in the

blue light thrown off by the twin televisions.

Michael places a pillow gently beneath Letty's head.    He

caresses her face.

Letty's eyes are alive to every look, every touch. Michael

kisses her slowly on the forehead, the nose, and the lips.

CLOSE on Letty's hands as she reaches up to stroke Michael's

forehead and caress his temple.

CLOSER on her hands as Letty runs them through Michael's

hair, then twists a curly lock around her finger.

SOFT MOANS as we

INT. BEDROOM - MICHAEL'S APARTMENT - DAY

CLOSE on Letty's hand, resting on the comforter on Michael's

bed. The alarm clock RINGS. Letty's hand slaps it into

submission.

INT. BEDROOM - MICHAEL'S APARTMENT - LATER

Letty's still in bed, a look of bliss across her face.

Michael's face fills her vision.

Letty's eyes close.

Letty opens one eye and glares at him.

Letty bolts upright.

Michael gives her a kiss and walks into the LIVING ROOM.

Michael adjusts his tie. Letty, naked, runs into the room

and throws her arms around his neck.

Michael walks out the door. Letty thinks for a minute. She

flings open the door and yells to Michael's retreating back.

INT. HALLWAY - SAME

Michael swings around.

The door across the hall opens. A LITTLE OLD MAN stares at

Letty's naked figure. She slams Michael's apartment door.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MICHAEL'S APARTMENT - SAME

Letty collapses in GIGGLES.

INT. PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - CHASEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY

Letty sits across from the principal.

Letty hands the principal a letter.

The principal reads the letter.

INT. BANK - DAY

Michael sits at a back desk with MR. SMYTHE, who wears a

three-piece pin-striped suit and taps a pencil on his knee.

Michael's already standing.

He shakes Mr. Smythe's hand, and, downcast, gets out of the

bank as quickly as he can.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LETTY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Letty sits on the floor. She gulps down some aspirin, then

hauls Beast into her lap. The doorbell RINGS.

Michael walks in, and looks around.

He kisses her, and lies down on the floor to stroke the cat.

Michael makes a thumbs-down gesture.

Letty gives Michael a tired smile. Michael jumps up and

leaves. A moment passes. The door opens again.

EXT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT

Michael walks out of the grocery store, loaded down with

bags. He carries a bottle of wine and a bunch of flowers.

He passes two ladies who gossip outside the store.

Michael stops abruptly.   He turns back and looks at the

women. They LAUGH.

Michael starts toward the car. He hears more LAUGHTER from

the women. He turns back and walks up to them.

The women pull back in fright.

INT. KITCHEN - LETTY'S APARTMENT - LATER

Letty, in a skimpy negligee, lights candles on the table.

Michael enters with the groceries and wine.

M

Michael gives Letty a kiss good night. He leaves. She

stares after him. Reluctantly, she blows out the candles and

starts putting the groceries away.

INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

The coffee shop hasn't opened for business yet. Michael and

six people in their early 20s fill out applications.

name. He can't get any further.

TWO OTHER APPLICANTS glance toward him.   Michael tries to

write. He can't.

The other applicants look toward Michael and quickly avert

their eyes. The RESTAURANT MANAGER walks up to the group.

Michael grabs his briefcase and walks out of the restaurant.

His application, incomplete, remains on the table.

INT. KITCHEN - SANTUCCI HOUSE - NIGHT

This kitchen is the heart of the home--copper pots, two pasta

makers and every size wooden spoon made.

Letty, lightly dusted with flour, mixes fresh pasta with her

hands. Mrs. Santucci peers into the bowl.

Letty pours in more water.

Letty smiles at her and kneads harder.   Mr. Santucci enters

and kisses his wife.

Mr. Santucci looks in the pasta bowl.

He dumps some in.   Letty looks sadly at the gloppy mess.

Michael walks in.

Michael takes his tie, holds it up like a noose and lets his

tongue loll out of his mouth.

Mr. and Mrs. Santucci look at each other.

An uneasy silence falls in the room.

Michael looks in the bowl of pasta dough that Letty continues

to labor over. He reaches in to help with the mixing.

INT. BATHROOM - MICHAEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Michael finishes brushing his teeth. He opens the medicine

cabinet, pulls out a prescription bottle and pours a pill

into his hand.

He raises the pill to his mouth, then opens his hand and lets

it drop in the sink. Michael runs the water and watches the

pill swirl slowly down the drain.

Michael stuffs the pill bottle in a bottom drawer. He opens

the door, sprints into the bedroom and leaps onto Letty, who

lies on the futon. Letty SCREAMS and LAUGHS.

INT. MCDONALD'S RESTAURANT - DAY

Michael sits in a booth drinking coffee. He bows over an

application, pen in hand. About a third is filled out.

INT. SUPERINTENDENT'S OFFICE - DAY

Letty and Superintendent Johansen sit on the floor, which is

covered with math games, posters and charts.

Johansen studies her.

Letty hugs Johansen.

INT. MCDONALD'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Michael sits in the same booth, eating a hamburger.   About

half of the application is now completed.

INT. TUXEDO SHOP - NIGHT

Letty and her mother sit in silence. Letty smiles at her

mother. Her mother gives her a very tiny smile back.

Michael hurries in.

Michael pulls a blue polyester hat out of his pocket and puts

it on.               M

Michael heads to the dressing room in the back of the store.

Letty looks toward the back of the store.    Her mother looks

at her. Letty ignores her mother.

Letty looks at her mother, tries to read her.

Michael walks out of the dressing room and advances toward

the two women, bowing in Cary Grant fashion as he nears.

Letty's mother turns to her daughter, who beams brightly at

the dashing Michael.

EXT. TRACK - DAY

Letty and Michael jog.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

Every inch of every pew in the Baroque church is stuffed with

guests. Michael sits in the second row. He cranes his head

around as "Pachelbel's Canon" RINGS OUT and the FLOWER GIRL

L

advances.

Letty, in the first part of the bride's maids' procession,

heads down the aisle next. The bride is nowhere in sight.

But even so, as soon as Michael spots Letty, he stands.

Everyone else remains seated. They look at him. Michael

doesn't notice. He has eyes only for Letty.

Letty's mother looks at Michael with more than annoyance.

Begrudgingly, she also stands.

Following the lead, the entire church stands for Letty.    She

smiles at Michael.

INT. BALLROOM - COUNTRY CLUB - LATER

A parade of guests pass through the receiving line to greet

Mr. Mayer, Monica, Letty, Mrs. Mayer, Ruth and Jake.

Michael hovers close to Letty. AUNT LILY, with fluorescent

red hair and a silver lame miniskirt, spots him.

As she passes out of earshot,

Mrs. Mayer talks to her brother CORT.

Letty and Ruth overhear this. They make eye contact.   Ruth

raises her eyebrows toward Letty. Letty smiles back.

INT.   BALLROOM - LATER

Ruth and Letty talk while Michael twirls across the dance

floor with Monica.

Cort, overweight and red from drink, approaches Ruth and

Letty.

Ruth turns and flees. CORT pounces on Letty and plants the

wettest kiss ever on her mouth.

Michael walks up to Letty and Cort as they speak.

Letty looks at Michael, surprised.

Cort gives Letty another big, wet kiss.

Michael grabs a glass of champagne from a passing waiter.

Michael heads toward the D.J. and confers with him.    Mr.

Mayer walks up to Letty.

Michael then walks back to Letty and pulls her out onto the

dance floor as "Twist and Shout" BOOMS OUT from the speakers.

Letty's mother departs the dance floor, grimacing. Ruth

shoots Michael a look of pure pleasure. And everyone begins

twisting, as we

INT. LIVING ROOM - MICHAEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Completely dark.   Silent.

Letty, in a nightshirt, wanders in, and stumbles through the

room. She fumbles for the switch on the floor lamp.

The light comes on, illuminating a small circle.    Just

outside of it sits Michael.

H

Michael remains focused on the space directly in front of

him.

Letty begins to stand up. The movement breaks Michael's

trance. He pulls her back down.

Michael beats his hand on the floor.

Michael reaches out, grabs the floor lamp, and pushes it

over. He lurches to his feet and pulls Letty to a standing

position.

Michael knocks some flowers over, then rips apart a pillow.

Letty hovers in back of him.     He pauses.   She puts her hand

on his back.

Michael whirls around.   He slaps Letty's hand away. She

stumbles backward.

He stares in her direction, but he doesn't respond.      Letty

can't make a connection.

Michael shoves his fist through a window.

Letty grabs the phone.

Letty runs with the phone. Michael follows her. Letty

trips. She rights herself. She locks herself in the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM, MICHAEL'S APARTMENT - SAME

M

Michael HOWLS -- a long, piercing inhuman sound.

On the other side of the door, Michael SCREAMS.    Another

window SHATTERS.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MICHAEL'S APARTMENT - LATER

Letty, wearing Michael's tux jacket, is curled up on the

floor in a fetal position.

She stares...at the upset flowers, at the ripped-up pillows,

at a fist-sized hole ripped through an unsturdy wall. Her

gaze stops on a Spaghetti-O's can, lying empty on the floor.

KNOCKS on the door.   Letty rises slowly, padding to the door

like an old woman.

The KNOCKS grow urgent.   Letty opens the door to Ruth.

Letty throws herself into Ruth's waiting embrace.

Immediately, Letty cries.

After a moment, Letty steps back.

Ruth looks into Letty's eyes.

Ruth pulls Letty into the apartment and shuts the door behind

them. It is only then that she sees the destruction in the

living room. Horror flashes across her face.

Tears stream down Letty's face.   Ruth starts to cry.

Letty shakes her head "no." Her sobbing intensifies. Ruth

puts her arm around Letty, and together, they sit on the

floor.

Ruth holds Letty until the crying eases.

Ruth holds her close again.

EXT. SANTA BARBARA MISSION - DAY

Letty sits on the same bluff she once shared with Michael.

She smokes a cigarette, and stares out at the ocean.

EXT. SANTA BARBARA MISSION - LATER

Letty remains on the bluff, crying. A priest, passing in the

background looks over at her, and continues on his way.

EXT. SANTA BARBARA MISSION - NIGHT

In the darkness, Letty lies on her back. She stares up at

the moon and stars, bright against the night sky.

EXT. BOTANICAL GARDENS - DAY

Letty walks along a pathway with Paul.

Letty reaches up to hug him.    He quickly disengages himself.

Paul starts down the path.

Letty runs up to Paul.

Letty hands Paul the engagement ring. He takes it and

continues walking as she stares after him.

EXT. HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY

Letty walks up the steps to the imposing facility. We follow

her journey through the VISITING ROOM, past families

conversing with patients, to the NURSES' STATION.

Letty walks up to Nurse Gates, who gives her a quick hug.

John and Bill watch as Letty signs the visitors' register.

Letty walks down the HALLWAY and pauses outside Michael's

door. She KNOCKS.

INT. MICHAEL'S ROOM - HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - SAME

Michael is in the middle of taping up the same Houdini poster

we saw in his last room when Letty enters.

Letty and Michael kiss awkwardly.    Dead silence.

They smile nervously.

Letty rolls her eyes.

Letty looks out the window.

Letty and Michael glare at each other.    Letty looks away.

Michael shakes his head.

Letty waits. She looks away. She turns back and stares into

Michael's eyes. Finally, she says it.

Letty starts to cry.   Tears well up in Michael's eyes.

Michael sits down on the bed and they hold each other.

Letty and Michael grip each other.    Finally, they pull apart.

Letty wipes a tear from Michael's cheek.

T

Michael puts his hand under Letty's chin and draws her head

up so he can look into her eyes.

Letty shakes her head "no" as tears stream down her face.

Letty stands up and walks toward the door. She comes back

and embraces Michael again. Slowly, they separate, and Letty

leaves the room. Michael stares out the window.

EXT. HILLVIEW PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - SAME

Letty walks out the door, down the steps and along the front

walkway -- until, finally, the hospital recedes in the

distance.

INT. CLASSROOM - CHASEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY

Letty sits on top of a desk. Children of all ages stare her

down. A few familiar faces--Bobby and Jenny--grace the room.

Principal Gail passes outside the window and glances in.

Bobby doesn't move.

Letty trails off. She sees that she's lost the class. Bobby

launches a spit wad that hits the boy in front of him.

She walks up to Bobby. He twists around in his seat, trying

to hide the rest of his supply of spit wads.

Letty waves her hand around Bobby's head. The children,

stare, delighted. She pulls a bright coin out of his ear,

and hands it to him.

Letty puts her hands behind her back and produces a bouquet

of paper flowers. Now, she's got the class hooked.

