We circle around the island of Manhattan moving closer and

closer till we're looking down on Fifth Avenue. As the

melody continues to play we MOVE towards a building and ZOOM

into a window.

A fifty-year old female therapist (DR. GREENBAUM) sits at

her desk, frowning as she takes notes. Books of Jung and

Freud line the shelves.

A young man (SEBASTIAN VALMONT) sits in a chair in front

of her looking impatient.

The therapist continues to write notes.

Sebastian takes out a cigarette.

Sebastian sneers at her then puts the cigarette away. Dr.

Greenbaum finishes her notes and looks up at him, shaking

her head.

Dr. Greenbaum shakes her head and takes notes.

Sebastian picks up a book of Freud.

Sebastian approaches a photo on her desk and picks it up.

Sebastian puts on his glasses and leaves.

The doctor stews for a moment, then reaches into her

desk, sifts through some papers where she finds a pack of

Benson & Hedges and lights one up. She looks at the photo

of her daughter, then hits the speaker phone and dials.

RACHEL, Doctor Greenbaum's daughter sits at her desk,

crying while holding the phone.

Rachel cries for a moment.

She continues to cry.

WE PAN OVER TO HER COMPUTER CONSOLE. CLOSE ON: COMPUTER

MONITOR - A nudie web-sight. The title reads "Ivy League

Bound." Beneath the caption is a photo of Rachel tied to

a bed and smiling with a Princeton banner covering her

privates.

Doctor Greenbaum bolts out of her office and spots

Sebastian standing in the elevator.

Doctor Greenbaum races down the hall pushing several

people out of her way. Sebastian stares at her

expressionless as the elevator doors close.

A DENTIST peers outside of his office to see what's

going on. He exchanges looks with Doctor Greenbaum.

He gasps.

A METER MAID is writing a ticket on a car when a Porsche

pulls up in front of the townhouse and parks in a red

zone. Sebastian steps out of the car and walks up the

steps to the townhouse.

Sebastian turns to her and sneers. He takes out a wad of

money and shoves it in her breast pocket before entering

the townhouse.

A SERIES OF SHOTS

CLOSE ON:  A tuna on a chopping board. WHACK! A butcher

knife comes down on the tuna cutting it's head off.

CLOSE ON: Two hands ripping open the fish.

CLOSE ON: Two hands rolling a chunk of tuna into a rice

roll.

CLOSE ON: Two hands which carry a lavish tray of sushi

through several doors until we enter the final door

leading into -

A enormous living room by Manhattan standards, with a

view that overlooks the park. Eclectic art from around

the world emphasize the Valmont's passion for travel.

SOOK-HEE, the Valmont's housekeeper sets a tray of sushi

in front of -

KATHRYN MERTEUIL, a seventeen year old porcelain

skinned WASP with all the grooming you could want in an

East Coast child. She sits with a forced smile on her

face and listens attentively as -

BUNNY CALDWELL, a forty year old nouveau-riche socialite

talks incessantly. CECILE CALDWELL, her beautiful

teenage daughter, sits by her side. She wears a T-shirt

with a Koala Bear on it.

Sook-Hee pours a dish of soy sauce in front of Kathryn.

Sook-Hee leaves.

Mrs. Caldwell turns to see Sebastian standing in the

doorway. He walks over and takes a seat.

He winks at Cecile.

Kathryn stands and approaches Cecile.

Cecile follows Mrs. Caldwell out the door. Kathryn

closes the door behind them.

Kathryn sits on the sofa next to Sebastian. She unscrews

her crucifix. The top part becomes a small spoon and the

bottom part a small vial of coke.

Kathryn uses her crucifix as a coke-spoon and snorts a

bump.

He leaps off the sofa and starts to pace.

He walks over to the wall where nude Botticelli hangs.

He scratches the nude's pubic area.

He kisses it.

COURT REYNOLDS, an Aryan seventeen year old preppy, wears

a Polo sweater with an American Flag.

Kathryn steps into frame and embraces him. She is wearing

the same sweater. He kisses her forehead and messes

up her hair.

Kathryn throws a sushi at him. Sebastian catches it.

Sebastian stares her down.

He smiles, then swallows the sushi.

A drunk Court sits in the driver's side and takes a final

swig from his flask. He quickly passes out.

Kathryn rises up INTO FRAME, looks at Court and scowls.

She spits on him, then wipes her mouth.

Kathryn sprays her mouth with Binaca.

Cecile turns toward the camera, while eating a double scoop

ice cream cone and wearing a Mickey Mouse Club hat.

She takes a lick of the ice cream, which falls off the cone.

She mouths the word "shoot" and stomps her feet

Sebastian snickers.

Sebastian watches Kathryn rub herself. He licks his

lips.

Sebastian places his hand over Kathryn's as she continues

to rub herself. He thinks for a moment, then:

Kathryn throws his hand off of hers.

He takes a magazine and throws it on the table. Kathryn

picks it up. It's the latest issue of "Seventeen."

She turns to the page. INSERT MAGAZINE ARTICLE: The title

reads: A VIRGIN'S MANIFESTO. "Why I Plan To Wait

Until Marriage," by Annette Harrison. Age 17. Kansas

City, Missouri.

He holds up a leather bound JOURNAL.

Sebastian stands to leave and heads to the door.

He stops.

She approaches him.

Sebastian sneers at her.

She kisses him and licks her tongue over his lips.

Sebastian hesitates, then shakes her hand.

WE MOVE across the sky looking down at lush greens and

stately mansions till WE PASS over the ROSEMOND ESTATE.

Enormous in size. WE SEE two riders on horseback.

ANGLE ON: The two horseback riders. One, a woman of

seventy. This is HELEN ROSEMOND, Sebastian's aunt.

The other rider is a beautiful seventeen year old girl.

The one and only ANNETTE HARRISON.

Annette throws her a concerned look.

BANG! A shotgun sounds in the distance.

Aunt Helen gallops down the ridge followed by Annette.

Sebastian stands holding a shotgun. A groundskeeper,

FRANKLIN stands by the trap.

The TARGET soars into the air,

He fires the gun, missing the target.

Franklin shakes his head. WE HEAR a cat MEOW. Sebastian

perks up.

He quietly reloads his rifle. WE HEAR the cat MEOW

again. Sebastian searches for the cat.

He raises his rifle and takes aim.

He lowers his rifle and turns to SEE Aunt Helen and

Annette riding over to him. He waves.

Aunt Helen dismounts from her horse and they hug.

She strokes his cheek, lovingly.

He extends his hand and they shake.

Sebastian climbs on Aunt Helen's horse.

He smiles at Annette and beckons her to follow.

Sebastian and Annette put the riding gear away.

She bends over to pick up the saddle.

She sighs, disgusted, then turns toward him.

She shakes her head and continues with her chore.

An uncomfortable silence falls between them,

She approaches him and they shake.

She smiles, but before he releases her hand:

She whisks her hand away and storms out of the stable.

CLOSE ON: A hand stroking the bridge of a cello.

WE PULL BACK

Cecile sits in front Of a cello. Next to her sits RONALD

CLIFFORD, a well-mannered fifteen year old African

American. Holding his own cello, he is giving her a

music lesson.

Cecile attempts the A minor scale, fucking up badly.

Kathryn enters and shudders in silence.

Cecile tries again and once again screws up.

Cecile takes a deep breath

He stands and sits behind her.

He places his hand over hers.

She closes her eyes and they repeat the scale. It sounds

much better. Ronald takes the moment to study Cecile's

face. It's obvious he's smitten with her.

ON KATHRYN: who watches from the door. A grin crosses

her face.

Ronald replaces her other hand and plays a beautiful Bach

Sonata, with he and Cecile sharing the bowing. He closes

his eyes as the music takes over him. Now Cecile opens

her eyes and gazes into his. The feeling is mutual.

ON KATHRYN: She accidentally bangs her hand onto a table

which causes a metal tray to fall to the ground.

Ronald and Cecile look up as Kathryn replaces the tray

Ronald quickly stands and moves away from Cecile

Ronald approaches and shakes Kathryn's hand.

Ronald shakes his head, but laughs. Cecile looks at him

and smiles. Kathryn rolls her eyes.

Cecile nods.

Another nice home in Connecticut. Sebastian's Porsche is

parked outside.

A typical teenagers bedroom, expect this one is a shrine

to Herb Ritts homo-erotic art.

BLAINE TUTTLE, Oakwood Prep's resident drug-dealer and

open homosexual, sits at his desk separating pot seeds

from his stash.

Sebastian paces behind him.

Sebastian hands Blaine two hundred dollar bills.

Kathryn and Cecile sit on a blanket. A lavish picnic lies

around them. Kathryn wears large sunglasses, a scarf and

a hat to protect her from the sunlight. She sits behind

Cecile and braids her hair.

Cecile turns and faces Kathryn, who removes her glasses.

Cecile does as instructed. Kathryn leans in and kisses

her on the mouth.

Cecile closes her eyes. Kathryn leans in and kisses her

again, only this time longer. She continues to kiss her

then gently pushes her tongue into Cecile's. Cecile does

as instructed and they start to make out.

Kathryn eyes look towards the ground where Cecile's hands

are now clutching the grass. Kathryn smiles and

continues her seduction.

She places her hand on Cecile's thigh and moves it under

her dress. Cecile lets out a soft sigh.

Kathryn breaks from the kiss. They look at each other

and smile.

Kathryn nods.

Cecile starts to cry. Kathryn hugs her.

Kathryn grabs her and looks her straight in the eye.

Cecile kisses her on the cheek and hugs Kathryn.

Little touches of Annette's life (photo of dead mother)

adorn the room. Annette is reading

she HEARS singing coming from outside. Unable to

concentrate, she walks out onto the balcony.

Annette steps onto the balcony.

HER P.O.V. - Sebastian lies in a floating pool chair

sipping a cocktail and listening to his Walkman and

singing Beethoven's "Ode to Joy" in German.

She re-enters the guest room. Sebastian's cell phone

RINGS. He answers it.

Kathryn sits in her bathrobe. One foot soaks in a small

tub of water while Sook-Hee tends to her other foot.

She hangs up and lights a cigarette. Sook-Hee accidently

jabs her toe.

Kathryn kicks some water in her face.

Annette comes down, wearing a bathrobe. She sits by the

pool as Sebastian treads water away from her.

Annette smiles and tears the letter up.

She takes pieces of paper and sticks it in her bathrobe. She

then stands and takes off the robe, revealing a one piece

bathing suit underneath.

She dives in the pool and surfaces.

He swims towards her.

He flexes for her. She laughs.

He extends his arms out for a hug. She moves in and hugs

him. Her smile turns to a look of horror.

She pushes him off her.

Annette climbs out of the pool.

She walks into the house.

She flips him the bird as she heads into the house.

Sebastian's Porsche is parked outside.

Sebastian presses his ear to the door.

GREG McCONNELL, All-American star football player for

Oakwood prep is busy getting his cock sucked by Blaine,

who lies under the covers.

The door swings open and Sebastian enters.

Greg throws the covers over his face. Sebastian smiles

and sits. He lights a cigarette. No movement from under

the covers.

Sebastian stands YANKS the covers off the bed, revealing

Greg and Blaine.

Greg starts to cry.

Greg wipes his eyes.

Sebastian unzips his fly.

Greg, completely defeated, crawls off the bed and over to

Sebastian. Blaine shakes his head and smiles.

Greg places his hand on Sebastian's thigh when -

Blaine and Sebastian laugh.

Sebastian leaves the room, then re-enters.

Annette jogs up a dirt road on her morning run. THIRTY

YARDS BEHIND HER - a golf cart drives off a meadow and

lands on the road. Sebastian is driving.

Annette looks back and scowls. Sebastian catches up to

her.

She continues her jog. Sebastian follows alongside.

Annette stops running and turns to him.

Sebastian thinks for a moment. He's pissed.

He shifts the cart into reverse and backs away.

Annette and Greg walk along the beach and gaze out at the

ocean.

Annette looks lost.

Greg takes her hand.

Annette laughs.

Sebastian drives down the highway towards Manhattan. He holds

his cell phone in one ear.

Greg talks on a pay phone, out of Annette's sight.

Click. The line goes dead.

Kathryn is sitting in front of the television, scowling.

ON TV - A HIDDEN VIDEO OF RONALD AND CECILE IN THE

VALMONT LIVING ROOM.

Ronald plays Beethoven's "Moonlight Sonata" at the piano

while Cecile listens and sways to the music.

ANGLE ON: LIVING ROOM -

She throws a magazine at the television. Sebastian bursts

into the living room.

ON TELEVISION - RONALD FINISHES THE SONG. CECILE STANDS

AND APPLAUDS. RONALD TAKES A BOW.

Cecile blushes. Ronald checks his watch.

He approaches her, awkwardly then shakes her hand.

ANGLE ON: LIVING ROOM - Kathryn FREEZE FRAMES the image.

She walks over to the "freeze frame" image of Ronald and

Cecile on the television.

Kathryn smiles and sits on Sebastian's lap.

Sebastian rubs her shoulders.

Sebastian moves his hand down her shirt and under her bra.

He's met with no resistance.

He takes his hand out from her shirt and slides it under her

skirt.

She closes her eyes and rubs his crotch. She unzips his fly.

She takes his hand out from under her pants.

Kathryn smiles.

A meter maid writes a ticket on Sebastian's car when she

grabs her neck in pain.

Sebastian closes his window and sets down a bb rifle with

an infrared scope.

He picks up the phone and dials.

Annette sits in bed talking on the other end of the

phone.

There's a moment of uncomfortable silence.

He crosses over to his circular bed where two scantily clad

twins (GRETCHEN & MORA) are licking popsicles.

He takes out a bottle of baby oil and pours it on the

girls' butts.

They rub the oil on each other then turn to him and

smile. He clicks the phone back on.

Establishing shot.

A SALESWOMAN approaches Kathryn who's checking out an

assortment of fur coats. The saleswoman holds up a

beautiful dress.

Kathryn examines the label.

The saleswoman smiles, then walks away. Kathryn sneers

then looks over at a small child, staring at her.

She "shoos" the child away, when Mrs. Caldwell

approaches.

Kathryn reacts to her remark.

Kathryn picks out an expensive suit and approaches the sales

counter.

Kathryn looks through her purse.

Mrs. Caldwell takes out her purse.

Mrs. Caldwell hands the credit card to the saleswoman.

Kathryn turns to Mrs. Caldwell.

Ronald gives Cecile a cello lesson when Mrs. Caldwell

bursts into the room.

Mrs. Caldwell holds up Ronald's letters.

Ronald and Cecile exchange looks of worry.

Cecile turns to Ronald.

Ronald nods and Cecile runs out of the room. Mrs.

Caldwell turns to Ronald.

Ronald packs up his sheet music, while Mrs. Caldwell

waits.

He storms off.

Ronald rides down in the elevator.

The elevator stops and the doors open. Sebastian and

Kathryn stand in the doorway, wearing shades. Kathryn

hands Cecile's letter.

Ronald sits in a chair and reads Cecile's letter.

Sebastian and Kathryn watch.

Sebastian and Kathryn roll their eyes.

She hands Ronald a pen and paper.

Ronald leaves the room. Sebastian closes the door while

Kathryn picks up the phone and dials.

Sebastian hangs up the phone.

She picks up the phone and he hangs it up again.

She reaches out toward his temple, plucks a handful

of something, throws it to the ground and STOMPS on

it.

Sebastian says nothing. Kathryn picks up the phone and

dials.

She hands the phone to Sebastian.

The clock reads 1:30. A large collection of antiques

and stuffed animals line the room and walls. Cecile

lies in bed, eyes wide open. She crawls out of it,

dressed in sweats.

Cecile exits a building and steps into a waiting

taxi.

Cecile lies on Sebastian's bed. She finishes the letter

while Sebastian fiddles with a camera.

She hands the letter to Sebastian, who looks it over.

He points the camera at Cecile and snaps a photo.

Cecile gasps.

She stands to leave. Sebastian blocks her path.

He moves toward the phone

Cecile runs over to him, sobbing, and wraps her arms

around his legs.

Cecile breathes a sigh of relief. He pulls her up to her

feet.

She closes her eyes, then puckers up. Sebastian takes the

string holding up her sweats and pulls it open.

Cecile bolts up.

Sebastian points to her crotch. She moves her hands to

her sweats and looks up at him. Sebastian shrugs.

Cecile pulls the string to her sweats. They fall to the

floor.

Mrs. Caldwell enters the room.

She notices the bed is empty.

She walks over the bathroom door and knocks.

Cecile stands in front of her mirror, crying. She applies

make-up to several hickeys on her neck. She XXX down

her shirt and grimaces. She sticks her finger the make-

up bottle, then puts her hand down her shirt.

Aunt Helen, Annette, Mrs. Caldwell and Cecile are having

lunch. Cecile is wearing a turtle neck.

Sebastian enters carrying his tennis racket.

Cecile is stunned that he's there. Sebastian takes a

seat at the table.

He looks at Cecile and strokes the shaft of his racket.

Cecile stands and rushes into the house.

No one knows.

Mrs. Caldwell follows her into the house.

Aunt Helen stands and enters the house.

Annette shakes her head and laughs.

Cecile talks on the phone.

Kathryn listens on the other end of the conversation.

She hangs up the phone and smiles.

Establishing shot.

A NURSE escorts Sebastian and Annette down the hall.

They stop at a door and open it. An OLD MAN sits in his

hospital bed.

Sebastian starts to enter the room, when the nurse stops

him.

The Nurse escorts an unhappy Sebastian down the

hall. Annette waves "bye bye" to him.

Annette sits by Mister Gottlieb's bed and reads from a book

of poetry.

A senile MRS. SUGARMAN sits in bed, while Sebastian does

a newspaper crossword puzzle and ignores her. He smokes

a cigarette and flicks the ash into her bedpan which lies

next to her on the bed.

Sebastian never takes his eyes off the paper.

He turns to her and extinguishes his cigarette.

There's a knock at the door.

Annette and the nurse enter.

Sebastian smiles at Annette, who smiles back.

Sebastian and Annette drive towards the estate.

She throws him a look.

They drive on in silence. A smile comes over Annette's

face. She turns to him, crosses her eyes and makes a

face. Sebastian looks over.

She holds the face. Sebastian starts to laugh.

He continues to laugh. She stops making the face.

She makes the face again. He laughs.

She laughs with him.

She reaches out and holds his hand. He squeezes it.

Cecile lies in the bed. There's a knock on the door.

Cecile bolts up and unlocks the door. Kathryn stands

there with a worried look on her face.

Kathryn enters and locks the door behind her. Cecile is

crying.

Cecile waits a moment, then whispers in her ear.

Kathryn laughs.

Kathryn nods. Cecile embraces her, happy.

Cecile takes the information in.

Annette sits on the grass reading Gabriel Garcia

Marquez's Love In The Time Of Cholera. She puts the book

down and wipes a tear from her eye.

Sebastian peers out his window with a pair of binoculars.

Kathryn enters his room.

He hands the binoculars to Kathryn, who looks out the

window.

Sebastian grabs the binoculars from her.

He storms out of the room.

Sebastian walks over to Annette, who continues to read her

book. She notices him and sets the book down.

He sits down next to her.

She nods. He points to her book.

Sebastian sticks his hand in his pocket and fiddles

around.

Sebastian takes out a SOCK PUPPET.

The puppet kisses her on the cheek.

He kisses her on the cheek.

The puppet attacks a laughing Annette. She playfully

grabs Sebastian and starts to tickle him. Sebastian

tickles her back.

They roll around on the ground until Sebastian lands on

top of her. A moment of tense silence passes and

Sebastian kisses her. The kissing intensifies until she

pushes him off her.

Sebastian stands.

He paces for a moment and his mood turns to anger.

Annette's eyes well up with tears.

She hurries off.

Sebastian enters the room and slams the door behind him.

He hears the shower running from the bathroom.

Sebastian enters the room. Cecile sticks her head out

from the shower curtain.

He leaves the room. Cecile looks confused. A moment

passes and Sebastian re-enters taking off his clothes.

Cecile smiles.

Sebastian and Cecile lie in bed. Sebastian smokes a

cigarette and writes in his journal.

A moment of silence.

She looks at the troubled expression on Sebastian's face.

SEBASTIAN'S P.O.V. - He looks out on the balcony, where

Kathryn is eavesdropping. They make eye contact and she

waves.

He stands and walks over to the balcony, where he closes

the blinds.

Sebastian heads to the bathroom.

Annette is reading in bed. There's a knock on the door.

Sebastian enters the room.

Annette's eyes well up with tears.

Sebastian heads to the door.

Annette races toward him and throws her arms around him.

She kisses him passionately.

Sebastian embraces her and draws her over to the bed.

She lies down and starts to unbutton her dress. Sebastian

stands over her watches her. Her crying does not let up

as she continues to undress.

Sebastian stands, stunned and watches her.

A pained look crosses her face. Sebastian leaves the

room and closes the door.

Sebastian closes the door and leans against it.

He wipes his eyes, which are starting to water. He goes

over to a mirror at looks at himself.

A stern look comes over his face. He smiles, then walks

away.

A cab pulls up to the house. The front door opens and a

crying Annette quickly leaves the house and climbs into

the cab. She closes the door and the cab pulls away from

the house. WE PAN up to a second story window where

Kathryn is looking down and smiling.

Sebastian lies sleeping in his bed. His journal lies

beside him. A FEATHER tickles his nose. He stirs awake

and looks up to see Kathryn staring down at him.

Sebastian sits up in bed.

He climbs out of bed and puts on his robe. He starts out

the door, when -

Sebastian throws off the robe and starts to dress.

A shrine to hot babes, who's posters adorn the walls. Greg

is busy dumping muscle magazines, several issues of Teen

Beat and some Musical Theater CDs into a trash bag when the

phone rings. He answers it.

Sebastian is talking on his cell phone.

Sebastian clicks off his cell phone.

He bangs on his dashboard.

The Porsche weaves in and out of traffic on it's way to

the city.

A group of passengers exit the train. Annette is among

them. She stops when she SEES -

Sebastian, standing in the distance.

Annette stops in her tracks. She drops her bag, rushes

over to him and embraces him. Sebastian's cruel demeanor

drops, when he realizes how happy she is to see him. He

looks her in the eyes and smiles. They kiss.

Sebastian carries a laughing Annette into the room. They

continue to kiss and he carries her over to the table.

He sets her down and accidentally knocks over a lamp.

They both laugh. They kiss some more, then start to

unbutton each other's clothes. Sebastian struggles with

her pants' button.

He picks her up again and moves to the bed. They

collapse on the bed and he accidently falls off it.

Annette cracks up. Sebastian reaches up and YANKS her

down on top of him. They both laugh, then kiss.

Establishing shot

Annette sits on the windowsill watching Sebastian as he

sleeps. He slowly starts to wake and looks at her.

She walks over to him and kisses him.

She smiles and holds her hand out. He takes her hand in

his.

Annette closes the door to the bedroom and walks down the

hall passing a mirror on the wall. In the mirror's

REFLECTION is Kathryn, looking very angry.

Establishing shot.

Sook-Hee carries a bundle of folded laundry down the

hall. Sebastian enters the hallway from his bedroom. He

grabs her.

Sook-Hee smiles and moves on. Sebastian continues down

the hall. He passes Kathryn's door and hear noises.

Sebastian leans against the door.

Sebastian knocks on the door.

Sebastian hears some fumbling then a door close from

inside the bedroom.

Sebastian enters the room, to find Kathryn lying in bed,

wearing only her bathrobe.

Sebastian walks toward the closet.

He throws open the closet door. Ronald stands there

covering his genitals with his hands.

Ronald picks up his clothes. As he leaves:

Ronald's head drops as he closes the door behind him.

Sebastian throws Kathryn a look.

Sebastian sits on the bed.

A big grin appears on Sebastian's face

She places her hand on his crotch.

Sebastian stands.

He leaves and slams the door behind him.

Sebastian talks on the phone.

He hangs up the phone. Kathryn stands in the doorway.

Kathryn starts to cry.

He nods. Kathryn sits down on his bed. She slips her

underwear off from under her bathrobe and tosses it

aside, spreading her legs.

She picks up the phone.

Sebastian stares at her, lost in thought.

A taxi drives down the street.

Kathryn and Sebastian sit in the back seat. Her arm is

around his. Sebastian looks nervous.

The cab pulls up to the curb. Sebastian gets out and

heads into the building. Kathryn leans out the window.

The cab drives off.

Sebastian rings the doorbell. A woman (MRS. O'SHEA)

answers the door.

He smiles.

Sebastian closes the door behind him. Annette enters the

room.

Mrs. O'Shea mouths "He's cute" to Annette. Annette

smiles and nods. Mrs. O'Shea leaves the room.

She takes his hand and leads him down the hall.

They enter a guest room.

She closes the door behind them. She smiles and kisses

him.

She embraces him. Sebastian remains lifeless.

She looks him in the eye and can tell he's not joking.

Annette bursts into tears.

She attacks him but he grabs her hands and fends her off.

He pushes her against the wall and covers her mouth with

his hand.

She slinks to the ground and continues to sob.

Annette clutches her stomach and continues to sob. He moves

towards her.

He opens the door.

He leaves and closes the door behind him. Annette

continues to sob.

A cab driver carries several shopping bags out of a cab.

Kathryn walks down the hallway and enters her room.

The room is dark. Kathryn flips on the light.

Sebastian is sitting in a chair, wearing his shades,

journal in hand.

He takes off his glasses. We can tell he has been

crying.

He holds up a bottle of champagne.

Sebastian holds up a letter.

Kathryn takes the letter.

POP goes the champagne cork.

He reaches down and picks up two glasses. He fills them

and hands one to Kathryn.

Kathryn giggles.

She clicks his glass and drinks. Sebastian doesn't

drink. He looks ill.

Sebastian slaps her across the face.

She grabs him and starts throwing wild punches. They

fall to the ground.

He rolls on top of her and pins her to the ground.

He stands and gives her a hand up. They both catch their

breaths.

He grabs his journal, leaves and SLAMS the door behind

him.

Sebastian paces while talking on the phone.

He hangs up the phone and THROWS it into a mirror, which

SMASHES.

He collapses on his bed and buries his face in his hands.

Exhausted he looks up and sees his journal lying on the

floor. He picks it up and flips through it.

Sebastian walks down the street carrying a small package.

He enters an apartment building.

Sebastian rings the doorbell. Mrs. O'Shea answers the

door.

He hands her the package.

She closes the door.

Mrs O'Shea turns away from the door towards Annette,

who stands in the hallway.

Kathryn sits in a chair doing her nails. She checks her

watch, takes a moment and makes herself upset. She picks

up the phone and dials.

Ronald is sleeping. The phone rings. He awakens and

answers it.

Ronald sits up, nervous.

She cries.

He hangs up the phone and grabs his pants

Kathryn hangs up the phone. She instantly becomes calm and

returns to doing her nails.

Annette sits and stares at Sebastian's package.

She picks it up and opens it. She takes out a journal

and a letter. She opens the letter and reads it.

Sebastian sits at his desk, writing the letter.

Sebastian walks the streets of New York. He seems sad

and lonely.

Annette continues to read the letter.

We PAN down the side of the building to the ground.

Sebastian lies against the building waiting for Annette

to return.

Ronald sits and listens as a grieving Kathryn tells her

story.

Kathryn hugs him.

A STREET CLEANING MACHINE drives past the apartment

Sebastian lies sleeping on a sofa in the lobby. The

NIGHT DOORMAN taps him awake.

Sebastian stands and staggers out of the building.

Ronald walks out of the building and heads toward the

corner.

He stops when he SEES - Sebastian crossing the street.

Sebastian walks toward Ronald, who blocks his path.

Sebastian looks up at Ronald.

Ronald SHOVES Sebastian.

Sebastian says nothing.

Ronald TACKLES Sebastian to the ground. Ronald lands on

top of him and hits in the mouth.

Ronald hits him again. Blood pours out of Sebastian's

mouth. Sebastian is dazed. Ronald grabs him by the

collar.

Sebastian takes a moment to catch his breath.

He knees Ronald in the groin. Ronald screams in pain and

falls over. Sebastian climbs to his feet.

Sebastian kicks him in the ass. Ronald falls over.

Sebastian pins him to the ground. Ronald struggles.

Ronald nods. Sebastian releases him and Ronald catches

his breath. Sebastian looks up and SEES -

Annette, standing across the street, witnessing the

event.

Sebastian stands and races over to her, blindly crossing

the street.

Annette notices a speeding cab and -

Sebastian looks up just as -- WHAM! The taxi HITS him

dead on, sending him flying over the car and onto the

street.

Annette SCREAMS. The cab SKIDS to a stop. Annette runs

into the street and over to Sebastian, who lies in shock,

He sees her and grabs her hand. She starts to cry.

Ronald and the Cab driver run over to them.

The cab driver races back to his car. Sebastian looks up

at Annette.

Sebastian nods.

Sebastian nods.

Blaine, twenty high-school girls and several friends of

the family are dressed in black, making polite conversation

and consoling Sebastian's parents and his Aunt Helen.

Mrs. Caldwell stands in the corner with Cecile and her

husband, MR. CALDWELL.

She puts her arm around Cecile.

Annette enters Sebastian's room, now cleaned up. She

walks around the room, taking it in, then approaches the

window. She stares out of it for a moment.

Annette turns and sees Kathryn at the door. She enters

the room.

Kathryn extends her hand.

They shake.

Annette nods.

Kathryn walks over to Sebastian's desk and takes the keys

to his Porsche. She goes to leave, when she turns back to

Annette.

Kathryn starts to cry.

Kathryn continues to sob.

Annette puts a comforting arm around her.

Annette grabs Kathryn by the face, KISSES her forcefully

on the mouth, then shoves her back. Kathryn looks at her

in horror.

She winks at Kathryn then leaves.

CLOSE ON: Kathryn. She sits down on Sebastian's bed,

utterly defeated.

Annette steps back into frame and takes the car keys out

of Kathryn's hands.

Annette races down the highway. She opens up the glove

compartment and rifles through some cassettes. She takes

out The Carpenter's Greatest Hits and inserts it.

CUE UP: The Carpenter's singing "Goodbye To Love."

Annette reaches down and takes out Sebastian's

sunglasses. She puts them on and checks herself out in

the rear-view mirror. A grin crosses her face.

We MOVE off the Porsche and ascend into the air. The

Porsche weaves through traffic as it disappears into a

sea of cars. WE SEE the Manhattan skyline in the background

as WE -

