Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2003)

by Charlie Kaufman.

INT. PUBLISHING HOUSE RECEPTION AREA - DAY

It's grand and modern.  Random House-Knopf-Taschen is etched

on the wall in large gold letters.  An old woman enters

carrying a tattered manuscript, maybe a thousand pages.  She

seems haunted, hollow-eyed, sickly.  The young receptionist,

dressed in a shiny, stretchy one-piece pantsuit, looks up.

The old woman smiles and sits, the bulky manuscript on her

lap.  She stares politely straight ahead.

The receptionist gestures toward a Christmas tree in the

corner.  Its ornaments are holograms.

INT. TILED HALLWAY - DAY

The old woman carries her manuscript haltingly down a subway

hall.  She stops to catch her breath, then continues and

passes several archway with letters printed above them.  When

she arrives at one topped by an LL, she slips a card in a

slot.  A plastic molded chair drops into the archway.  She

sits in the chair; it rises.

INT. TUBE -DAY

The woman is still in the chair as it slips gracefully into a

line of chairs shooting through a glass tube.  The other

chairs are peopled with commuters.  We stay with the woman as

she and the others travel over New York City in the tube.

There are hundreds of these commuter tubes crisscrossing the

skyline.  The woman glances at the manuscript in her lap.

It's called:

Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind

This serves as the movie's opening title.  The other credits

follow, as the old woman studies commuters in passing tubes.

Their faces are variously harsh and sad and lonely and blank.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

SUBTITLED: FIFTY YEARS EARLIER

Every doctor's office waiting room: chairs against the wall,

magazines on end tables, a sad-looking potted plant, generic

seascape paintings on the walls.  The receptionist, Mary, 25,

can be seen typing in the reception area.  Behind her are

shelves and shelves of medical files.  The door opens and

Clementine enters.  She's in her early thirties, zaftig in a

faux fur winter coat over an orange hooded sweatshirt.  She's

decidedly funky and has blue hair.  Mary looks up.

Clementine sits.  She looks tired, maybe hungover.  She picks

up a magazine at random and thumbs without interest.

INT. INNER OFFICE AREA - CONTINUOUS

Mary pads down the hallway.  She knocks on a closed door.

Mary opens the door, peeks in.  Howard Mierzwiak, 40's,

professional, dry, sits behind his desk studying some papers.

She smiles and nods.  It's clear she's in love.  It's equally

clear that Mierzwiak doesn't have a clue.  Mary turns to

leave.

She smiles and heads down the hall.  Stan, 30's, tall,

spindly, and earnest in a lab coat pops out of a doorway.

She glances back nervously at Mierzwiak's open door.

He leans in to kiss her.  She cranes her neck to keep him

off.

She indicates the door to the reception area.  Stan nods.

Stan nods again and Mary opens the door to the waiting room.

After a moment, Clementine appears in the doorway.  Mary

leads her down the hall, not looking back.

Mierzwiak steps out from behind his desk.

Clementine enters the office.  Mary smiles at Mierzwiak and

closes the door, leaving them alone.

INT. OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Mierzwiak directs Clementine to a chair next to a coffee

table and a conspicuously placed box of tissues.  Mierzwiak

sits across from her.  He smiles.

He indicates a tape recorder.

He turns it on, smiles at her, gestures for her to begin.

Mierzwiak nods.  He's attentive, pleasant, and neutral

throughout.

She nods, thinks.

EXT. COMMUTER TRAIN STATION

SUBTITLE: TWO WEEKS LATER

The platform is crowded with business commuters.  Joel is

among them.  He is in his 30's, gaunt, and holding a

briefcase.  The platform across the tracks from him is empty.

Suddenly he turns and makes his way through the crowd.  He

climbs the stairs, crosses the overpass to the empty

platform.  Soon an almost empty train pulls up to that

platform.  Joel gets on and watches the business commuters

through the dirty window as his train pulls out of the

station.

EXT. MONTAUK TRAIN STATION - LATER

Joel talks on a phone.  The wind howls around him.  He tries

to shield the mouthpiece as he talks.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

Joel wanders the windy, empty beach, with his briefcase.  He

passes an old man with a metal detector.  They nod at each

other.

Later: Joel looks out at the ocean.

Later: Joel sits on a rock and pulls out a notebook.  He

opens it and writes with a gloved hand.

He has no other thoughts.  He glances up, spots a female

figure in the distance, walking in his direction.  She stands

out against the gray in a fluorescent orange hooded

sweatshirt.  It's Clementine.  He watches her for a bit, then

as she nears, he goes back to his writing, or at least

pretends to.  Once she passed, he watches her walk away.  She

stops and stares out at the ocean.  Joel writes.

Later: Joel walks up near the beach houses closed for the

season.  He peeks cautiously in a dark window.

Later: Joel digs into the sand with a stick.

INT. DINER - DAY

It's a local tourist place, but off-season empty.  Joel sits

in a booth and eats a grilled cheese sandwich and a bowl of

tomato soup.  An elderly couple drink coffee at the counter.

Clementine enters, looks around, takes off her hood.  Joel

glances at her bright blue hair.  She picks an empty booth

and sits.  Joel studies her discreetly.  The waitress

approaches her with a coffee pot.

The waitress pours the coffee.

The waitress is not amused.

The waitress heads to the grill.  Clementine fishes in her

bag, brings the coffee cup under the table for a moment,

pours something in, then brings the cup back up.

Clementine looks around the place.  Her eyes meet Joel's

before he is able to look away.  She smiles vaguely.  He

looks embarrassed, then down at his journal.  Clementine

pulls a book from her purse and starts to read.  Joel glances

up, tries to see the cover.  It's blue.  He can't read the

title.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

Joel stares out at the ocean.  Far down the beach Clementine

stares at it, too.  Joel glances sideways at her then back at

the ocean.

EXT. MONTAUK TRAIN STATION PLATFORM - LATE AFTERNOON

Joel sits on the bench waiting for a train.  Clementine

enters the platform, sees Joel, the only other person there.

She waves, sort of goofily enthusiastic, playing as if

they're old friends.  He waves back, embarrassed.  She takes

a seat on a bench far down the platform.  Joel stares at his

hands, pulls out his journal and tries to write in order to

conceal his awkwardness.

INT. TRAIN - A BIT LATER

Joel sits at the far end of the empty car and watches the

slowly passing desolate terrain.  After a moment the door

between cars opens and Clementine enters.  Joel looks up.

Clementine is not looking at him; she busies herself deciding

where to sit.  She settles on a seat at the opposite end of

the car.  Joel looks out the window.  He feels her watching

him.  The train is picking up speed.  Finally:

Joel looks over.

She looks around the empty car.

Clementine makes her way down the aisle towards Joel.

She hesitates in the middle of the car, looks back where she

came from.

There's a silence.

They sit in silence for a while.

The conductor enters the car.

Joel hands the conductor his ticket.  The conductor punches

it and hands it back.

The conductor turns to Clementine.  She fishes in her bag.

The conductor and Joel watch as she gets more agitated.

She dumps the contents of the bag onto the seat and sifts

frantically through.  Joel sees the book she was reading in

the diner.  It's The Play by Stephen Dixon.

She hands the conductor the tickets, smiles sweetly.  He

punches it, hands it back to her, and walks away.

The conductor heads into the next car.  Clementine shoves

stuff back into her purse.  Her hands are a little shaky.

She pulls a airline-sized bottle of alcohol from her pocket,

opens it, and downs it.  Joel is watching all of this but

pretending not to.  She looks out the window for a while.

The train pulls into the station.  The doors open.  Nobody

gets on.  The doors close.  The train pulls out.

Clementine sits and stares out the window.

INT. TRAIN - LATER

There are a few more people in the car now.  Clementine has

inched a few seats closer to Joel.  She watches him.  His

head is immersed in his journal.

INT. TRAIN - LATER

It's dark out.  The train is pretty crowded.  Joel stares out

the window.  Clementine sits closer still to Joel, eyes him.

EXT. TRAIN STATION - EVENING

The doors open and Joel emerges along with others.  He heads

to the parking lot, arrives at the car.  There's a big dented

scrape along the driver's side.  He gets in.

INT. CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Joel drives.  He passes Clementine walking.  She looks cold.

He considers, slows, rolls down his window.

He pulls over.  She climbs in.  They drive.

Joel turns.  They drive in silence.

There's a silence.

Joel pulls over.

Clementine opens the car door.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - A FEW MINUTES LATER

Joel stands in the living room, somewhat nervously.  He tries

to calm himself by focusing on the surroundings.  He looks at

the books on her shelves.  Clementine is in the kitchen.  We

see her as she passes by the doorway several times, preparing

drinks and chatting.

Clementine is in the living room now with two gin and tonics.

Joel is looking at a framed black and white photograph of

crows flying.

She caws and hands Joel a drink.

They click glasses.  Clementine giggles and takes a big gulp

of her drink.  Joel sips.  She plops down on the couch and

pulls her boots off.

Joel sits in a chair across the room.  Clementine finishes

her drink.

She heads toward the kitchen with her glass.

Joel crosses to the CD's and studies them.

Joel studies the unfamiliar CD's.  He picks up Bang On a Can

performing Brian Eno's Music for Airports to look at.

Clementine reenters with her drink.

She grabs it and sticks it in the CD player.  The music is

dreamy and haunting and slow.  Clementine falls back onto the

couch, closes her eyes and sips her drink.

Joel sits down in his chair and drinks.  There's a silence,

which seems fine to Clementine but makes Joel anxious.

She grabs Joel's drink from his hand, takes it into the

kitchen.

She giggles.  Joel looks around the room again.  There are

several potatoes dressed as women in beautiful handmade

costumes: a nurse potato, a stripper potato, a schoolteacher

potato, a housewife potato.  Clementine returns with Joel's

drink and a refill for herself.

Joel looks a little alarmed.

She sits back on the couch, closes her eyes.  Joel watches

her, looks at her breasts.  She opens her eyes, smiles

drunkenly at him.

She looks at him really hard for a long moment.  Joel tries

to hold her gaze, but can't.  He looks down at his drink.

Clementine starts to cry again.

Joel looks slightly crestfallen.

She sits closer to him.

Joel puts on his overcoat.  Clementine heads to the phone

table, pulls out a notepad.

She scribbles her phone number, hands it to him.  He puts it

in his pocket.  He stands there uncomfortably for a moment,

then forces himself to speak.

She tears up, swallows, and kisses him on the cheek.  He's

surprised and pleased and nervous.

We stay with Clementine as she watches Joel tromping through

the snow and getting in his car.

INT. JOEL'S CAR - NIGHT

Joel speeds through the suburban Rockville Center

neighborhood.  There is no snow on the ground.  He seems

different, somehow foggy and disoriented.

SUBTITLE:  THREE DAYS EARLIER

He arrives at his apartment building and parks.

EXT. JOEL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Joel gets out of his car, spots a van parked across the

street.  There are two dark figures inside.

He hurries inside the building.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel enters, dumps his overcoat on a chair, turns off the

lights, crosses to look furtively out the window.  It's

snowing in large flakes which seem to fall only in the beam

of a streetlight.

Joel squints to see inside the van.  Two dark figures talk.

One sucks on a cigarette and s dim orange light momentarily

illuminates the interior.  The figure in the driver seat

rolls down his window and gives a cheery wave to Joel.

Joel pulls away from the window, his face blanched.

He paces, mulling things over.  As he does, the scene starts

to change, almost as if it is drying out.

The colors bleach, the surroundings become slightly vague.

Even Joel's persona and voice-over seem to alter, his

emotional intensity becoming diffused.  Joel does not seem

aware of this.  He stops pacing, takes a small vial from his

pocket, dumps the lone pill onto his palm.  He looks at it.

It's pink.  There's some illegible initials stamped on it.

He swallows it, peeks out the window again, takes off his

clothes, slips into a pair of pajamas fresh from the store

packaging.  He sits on the edge of the bed, dials the phone.

Joel hangs up and lies on his back on the bed.  By now the

scene is lifeless, almost a husk.  He hears the apartment

building door open.  He hears footsteps.

His eyelids are getting heavy.  He closes his eyes.

BLACK.

He hears a key in his apartment door.

INT. BOOKSTORE - NIGHT

Joel sits in the bookstore coffee shop.  It's a jarring

transition, visually and emotionally.  Joel is in the midst

of some traumatic state of mind.

He fingers the vial with the pink pill in it as he watches

Clementine stack books on shelves.  Her hair is bright orange

now.

Joel rises and heads toward Clementine.

Right before Joel gets there, Patrick, a skinny young man

approaches Clementine.  Joel stops, watches.  The young man

seems out of breath.  He glances over at Joel, then taps

Clementine on the shoulder.  She turns, annoyed, sees who it

is and her face lights up.

Clementine giggles, stands and pokes Patrick playfully in the

ribs.

Joel is mesmerized by their familiarity.  As he stands there,

the scene starts to dry out.

Clementine and Patrick continue their flirtation but it's

turning lifeless, as if they are just reciting lines.  The

bookstore start to lose its color and immediacy.

Joel seems dazed, in some sort of dream confusion, as he

realizes the world around him is looking increasingly odd.

Joel turns to leave.

INT. JOEL'S CAR - NIGHT

Joel drives fast, recklessly.  The intensity is back.  He's

weeping as he drives.

The scene is faded as he parks in front of his apartment

building, and gets out of the car.  Joel spots the parked

van.  We've seen this before, but it's dried out now.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY

Joel trudges along carrying two big trash bags full of stuff.

He's been crying.  He looks behind him and finds himself

looking out the window of his apartment at the dark van on

the snowy street.  He turns back to the New York Street and

spots the address he was looking for: 610 11th Avenue.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

Joel sits in the small room with his bags.  A woman across

from him cradles a box full of belongings in her lap.  Her

eyes are red from crying.  Mary, the receptionist, pokes her

head through her window into the waiting room.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Joel walks with his bags behind Mary.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Joel enters.  Mierzwiak stands there with Stan in his lab

coat.

Stan nods professionally.

As Mierzwiak talks, the room colors start to fade,

Mierzwiak's tone of voice is also affected; it becomes dry

and monotonous.

Joel looks quizzically at the eroding environment.  Suddenly

he gets it.

Mierzwiak looks at the fading room.

Joel is sitting in a chair.  Electrodes connect him to some

electronic machinery monitored by Stan.  Mierzwiak watches

from the corner.

Stan pulls a snow globe from one of Joel's bags, shows it to

Joel.  The equipment registers Joel's reaction.

Stan pulls out a potato dressed as a Vegas showgirl.  Joel

studies it.  The machines register his response.

Stan pulls out a coffee mug with a photo of Clementine

printed on it.  Joel looks at the cup.  The machines record

his reaction.

The room, Stan, and Mierzwiak are now vague and wispy.

Joel is watching Stan.  Stan is not speaking, yet his voice

continues.

Joel looks up.  Stan's voice seems to be coming from above.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel lies on his back in fresh pajamas.  His eyes are closed

and electrodes connect his head to several machines.  The

machines are operated by Stan, now in grubby street clothes

and in need of a shave, and by Patrick, dressed similarly.

The monitor on one of the machines traces a myriad of light

blips running like streams through an image of Joel's brain.

Stan presses buttons and operates a joystick, aiming for the

lines.  Patrick (who we saw earlier with Clementine at the

bookstore) studies a meter on one of the machines.

Patrick fiddles with some jacks.

INT. LAB ROOM - DAY

The memory is becoming vague, characters' affects flat.  Stan

pulls out a pile of loose-leaf pages.  Mierzwiak smiles.

The scene is just a shell of itself as Stan rattles on.

Joel looks up at the ceiling.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - DAY

Joel, snapped into a new memory, cries as he fills two large

plastic garbage bags with mementos of his relationship with

Clementine.  There are funny little gifts, wind-up toys, some

potatoes dressed as women, some clothing Clementine has left

there, some CD's.  He pulls a big clump of pages out of his

loose-leaf journal and dumps them in the bag.

He gets some clean loose-leaf paper and writes:

December 15, 2004   Nothing much happened today.  I stayed

home.  Naomi worked on her dissertation.

The scene is fading as he continues to write.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Joel looks for an office number.  He finds it.  The plaque on

the door reads Lacuna Ltd.  Joel enters.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

Joel enters the Lacuna waiting room.  Mary sits in the

reception area.

INT. OFFICE HALL - DAY

Mary leads Joel down the hall.

Joel glimpses Mary smiling coquettishly at Mierzwiak.

INT. MIERZWIAK'S OFFICE - DAY

Joel and Mierzwiak are in the sitting area.  Joel looks at

the tape recorder.

Joel looks up, trying to locate the voice.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Patrick is checking out the apartment.  Stan monitors the

equipment.

Patrick returns to the bedside, focuses on the machines for a

moment.  He glances at the unconscious Joel.

Stan glances sideways at Patrick.

INT. MIERZWIAK'S OFFICE - DAY

Mierzwiak sits with Joel in the sitting area.

The scene is faded and disappearing fast.  It's gone.

INT. JOEL'S OFFICE - DAY

Joel gets off the elevator and approaches the receptionist.

Carmen the receptionist shakes her head.

Next day: Joel approaches the receptionist.

Joel is at his office desk on the phone.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel enters, checks his phone machine: zero messages.

INT. JOEL'S OFFICE - DAY

Joel gets off the elevator, approaches Carmen, who is in

conversation with someone else.

Carmen shakes her head "no", goes back to her conversation.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel checks his machine: zero messages.

Without a moment's hesitation, he dials the phone.

Joel's eyes bug.

INT. ROB AND CARRIE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Joel sits across Rob and Carrie, mid-40's.

Joel nods, confused, as Rob and Carrie leave the room and

close the door behind them.  Joel hears a hushed argument

ensue in the hall.  He notices the dog asleep on the floor.

He grabs a magazine off the coffee table, flips through it

distractedly as he paces, puts it down, picks up another.  A

subscription card falls to the floor.  He picks it up and is

about to shove it back in the magazine when he sees it is not

a subscription card at all.  It reads:

Joel stares at the card, incredulous.

Later: Rob and Carrie are now back in the room.

Joel just stands there.

Close-up of a vague dictionary page.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel is on the phone pacing.

INT. JOEL'S CAR - NIGHT

Joel drives past vague local landmark.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Joel in his parked car next to a fence surrounding a drive-in

movie closed for the season.  He weeps.  The windows fog up

until the outside is completely obscured.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY

Joel looks for an address.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Joel gets off on the sixth floor.  He searches for a room

number.  As he turns the corner, he sees that the hallway is

faded, vague and mostly erased.  He keeps walking, comes to

the door marked Lacuna and opens it.  Inside he can see

vague, erased version of Mary the receptionist.

These degraded, faded memories allow Joel to detach himself

and hear what's going on in his bedroom.

Joel looks up.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Stan works the joystick.  Patrick sits on the bed with Joel.

Stan aims the joystick.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel distractedly reads a book, checks the clock, goes back

to the book.  The door opens.  He looks up.  Clementine is

staggering in, drunk.

The scene is starting to degrade.  The acting becomes anemic.

This shuts Clementine up.  She is stung and she starts

gathering up her belongings, which are strewn about the

apartment.  Joel is immediately sorry he said this.  He

follows her around.

Clementine is out the door.  Joel follows.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Joel looks at his dented car, looks at Clementine clomping

off in the distance.

INT. JOEL'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Joel drives to catch up with Clementine.  He rolls down his

window to talk to her.

She keeps clomping.

He stops the car, gets out.

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

It's a street you might see in a dream, more an impression of

a quiet street than an actual one, with what little detail

there is obscured in darkness.  Joel wanders it.  In the

distance Clementine walks off, but as in an animated loop,

she doesn't get any farther away.  It's lonely.

Joel looks up, startled.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Stan watches the screen.  Patrick paces, fidgets, looks at

the unconscious Joel.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

On the vague street Joel listens to Patrick and Stan.

There's a click and Joel finds himself in --

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel and Clementine sit and eat dinner in front of the TV.

It's hard to make out what they're watching.

They sit on opposite ends of the couch.  They look bored.

The scene quickly degenerates.  The room fades.

Joel listens.

Joel looks over at the faded Clementine across the couch.

She stares straight ahead at the TV.

There's a click and Joel finds himself in --

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel watches TV.  Clementine walks by in her underwear, looks

at the TV.  She slips into a skirt.

The scene starts to fade.  Clementine puts on her shoes and

heads out the door.

EXT. ZOO - DAY

Joel and Clementine walk around unhappily.  They barely look

at the animals.  Clementine watches parents with babies.

She turns violently toward him, glaring.

Joel looks around.  People are watching.

The scene starts to fade.  Clementine's rant continues but

becomes attenuated and vague.

She's crying now, but it's almost animatronic, no real

emotion in it.  The scene is a husk.

She looks up at him.

Their eyes lock.  She is fading before his eyes.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

It's noisy and crowded.  Joel and Clementine sit at a small

table.  She is drunk and staring off, blankly.

Joel sighs, stands, and heads to the crowded bar.

Joel is at the bar, trying to get the bartender's attention.

Joel is paying the bartender.  He turns with the drink to

head back to the table.  He sees Clementine flirting with a

man in Joel's seat.

Joel is at the table.  Clementine looks from her

conversation.

The scene starts to fade.  Mark rises.

The bar gets quiet and vague.

Clementine keeps talking but there are no more intelligible

words, just a whisper -- like a breeze.

A doorbell buzzes.  Joel looks up.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Patrick opens the door.  Mary stands there in a winter coat,

carrying a backpack.

She walks past him.

Stan and Mary kiss.  She looks down at Joel as she takes off

her coat.

She heads into the kitchen.  Stan turns back to monitor the

slivers of light.

Stan looks over at Patrick.  Mary returns with a bottle of

scotch and two glasses.

She pours the whiskey.

Mary hands a glass to Stan.  She holds hers up in a toast.

Mary and Stan click glasses.

Stan focuses on the monitor.  Mary pours herself another

drink.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

It's dark.  Joel and Clementine are in bed.  The memory is

already in the midst of being erased.  Clementine is talking

in a monotonous, robotic manner.

The scene is faded completely now and Joel just lies there

for a moment, registering Clementine's statement.

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Joel and Clementine eat dinner in silence.  Joel looks around

at other couples in the restaurant.  Some seem happy and

engaged.  Others seem bored with each other.  He turns back

to his food.

He watches her as she downs her wine and pours herself

another glass.  She holds the wine bottle up to Joel.

There's a silence.

The scene is fading.

They continue to eat in silence as the scene dissolves.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Patrick is on the phone next to Joel's bed.  Stan watches the

lights on the computer screen.

Mary is in the kitchen.  She pokes her head out.  She's got

some pie on a plate.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Candles are lit.  Joel and Clementine are under a blanket on

the living room rug listening to music.

She's weeping.  Joel is stroking her hair.  They kiss and

begin to make love under the blanket.  It's sweet and gentle

and then it starts to fade.

He looks down and Clementine's tear-streaked face is fading.

She continues as if she's still being made love to, even

though Joel is completely beside himself.  He jumps up naked

and yells at the ceiling.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel is unconscious on the bed, completely still.  Mary and

Stan watch the monitor and smoke a joint.  After a silence:

Mary seems surprised, taken aback, caught.  She is silent for

a long moment.

Stan takes another drag on the joint, passes it to Mary.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Patrick, bundled up and carrying a full backpack, trudges

through the snow.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Clementine watches out the window as Patrick nears.  She's

crying.  He makes his way up her front stairs.  She swings

open the door and hugs him.

She pushes herself out of the embrace and looks at Patrick.

She runs into the bedroom.  Patrick is at the phone and

realizes he doesn't know Joel's number.  After a moment's

thought, he *69's.  The phone rings.

Beep.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Stan is on the phone.  He's really stoned and watches Mary,

stoned herself, dancing in a sexy trance to something soft

and low on the stereo.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Patrick hangs up, rifles quickly through his backpack.  He

pulls out a silver bracelet, puts it in his pocket, then

pulls out a journal, flips through it, keeping an eye on the

bedroom door.  The handwriting is a woman's.  He finds what

he's looking for.  He reads:

EXT. CHARLES RIVER - NIGHT

Joel and Clementine lie together holding hands on the frozen

river.  They look up at the stars.

Clementine looks over at him.  Her eyes are filled with love

and tears.  Then they get vague.  The scene is being erased.

Joel is panicked.

Crazily, Joel runs off, passing through a series of decayed

scenes: He and Clementine arguing in a car, having sex on the

beach, laughing and holding hands at a movie, eating grilled

cheese and tomato soup together in bed, Joel watching her

sleep, them drinking at a bar.  He arrives at a decayed

version of his first meeting with Mierzwiak.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Patrick reads the journal.

Clementine enters, dressed for the cold.  Patrick puts the

notebook away.

Patrick pulls the bracelet from his pocket, hands it to her.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Stan and Mary have sex on the floor next to Joel's bed.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Joel and Clementine are hiking, Clementine in front.

He concentrates.  Nothing happens.

He starts to have a fit, banging against trees, stomping his

feet, screaming.  But even while he's doing this the memory

and Clementine are fading around him.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - DAY

It's raining out.  Joel is reading, slouched in a chair.  He

looks over at Clementine, stretched out on her belly in her

underwear.  She's reading, too.

Clementine looks over at him, smiles.  Her brow furrows in

thought.

Joel ponders this.  The scene and Clementine are beginning to

dissolve.  Joel grabs Clementine's hand.  She giggles with

glee.  He pulls her out of the scene as it degrades.

He drags her through the landscape of already decayed

memories and turns off into:

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

The kitchen is dated and vague.  Joel and Clementine are in

an oversized playpen; they're adults but small.  Joel wears

footsie pajamas with some vague little animals on them.  He

holds a a red furry huckleberry hound doll.  Clementine is

still in her panties and bra.  An oversized woman in high

heels, seen from a low angle, hurries back and forth

preparing dinner.

Joel looks around at the kitchen, at his doll, at the woman.

He starts to cry.  Clementine tries to comfort him.  She hugs

him.

Joel sucks in some snot.  His mother scurries back and forth

clanging pots.  The room is not decaying.  Joel smiles.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Stan and Mary lie on the floor, their stoned minds wandering

after sex.  Stan suddenly perks up.  He looks at the monitor.

He makes his way, naked, to the computer screen.

Stan tries to break through his marijuana haze.  He fiddles

nervously with the equipment.

He jerks the joystick spastically.  Mary, also naked, gets up

and looks over his shoulder at the screen.

Stan turns and looks at her.  He's stoned and trying to

understand her motivation.

Stan tries to think.  He paces.  Mary watches him.  Finally:

He dials the phone, waits.

INT. MIERZWIAK'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The room is dark.  A groggy Mierzwiak is in bed on the phone.

His wife lies beside him, eyes open, listening.

Mierzwiak writes it down on a bedside not pad.  He hangs up.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Stan hangs up the phone, looks at Mary.

She starts getting dressed.

She hurries into the bathroom with her bag.

Mary slams the bathroom door.  Stan puts his head in his

hands.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Joel and Clementine are in the playpen.  Joel's oversized

mother reaches down as she hurries by and pats Joel on the

head.

She's gone.

Clementine holds his hand.  He looks over at her.

She kisses him.

He laughs.  She unbuttons his pajamas.  They begin to make

love.  Joel's mother hurries around the kitchen.  Joel stops,

looks at Clementine.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S CAR - NIGHT

It's a rust bucket.  Clementine drives through the snow.

She's crying and holding Patrick's hand.

She glances gratefully over at him then starts to cry even

harder.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Stan works on trying to get the signal back.  His hair is

combed and he's dressed neatly, looking professional but

still stoned.  Mary is pacing nervously to and from the

window, looking out into the night.  She's dressed also, and

she's wearing more make-up now.  Her hair is pulled up into

some sort of style.  Suddenly she freezes at the window.

She doesn't say anything.

She looks in the mirror.

The doorbell buzzes.  Mary lunges for the door, then calms

herself before opening it.  Mierzwiak, holding an equipment

bag, looks surprised.

Mierzwiak looks from Mary to Stan, nods, and enters.  Mary

closes the door.  Mierzwiak crosses to the equipment.

He sits down in front of the computer and does some fiddling.

He fiddles some more.  Mary looks on, fascinated.

Mierzwiak ponders.  He unzips his equipment bag, pulls out

another laptop computer and plugs it in to the system.

Mierzwiak presses some more buttons.  The program starts up.

A much more complex and detailed human brain appears on this

screen.  It rotates.  Eventually Mierzwiak sees a small

distant light in the brain.  He zeroes in on it.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Joel is being bathed in the oversized sink by his oversized

mother.  Clementine sits in the water with him, laughing.

The mother doesn't seem to see her.

The elements of the scene flash explosively away:  Joel's

mother, his Huckleberry Hound doll, the details of the

kitchen, Clementine.   Joel is thrown into:

INT. CAR - NIGHT

He sits with Clementine in the parked car, outside a drive-in

movie theater.  The movie on the giant screen is partially

obscured by a fence.  Joel and Clementine drink wine.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mierzwiak looks up from the computer screen.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Clementine and Joel laugh as they try to give voice to what

the characters on the screen are saying.

She starts to fade.  The scene starts to fade.  Joel

remembers their previous plan.

Joel grabs her.  They run off just as the scene decays into a

husk behind them.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Stan is back at the controls.  Mierzwiak's at the door with

Mary.

He nods, distractedly.  She smiles to herself as he heads

back to the equipment.

EXT. SCHOOLYARD - AFTERNOON

Joel, now the size of a junior high school kid and dressed

accordingly, is peering around the corner of the school

building toward the bike rack.  Clementine is with him,

dressed as she was in the parked car.

They head toward the bike rack.  Joel's is the only bike

remaining.

They're at the bike rack and a bunch of kids, including

giant, fat Joe Early come around the corner.

The other kids laughs.

The kids start chanting, "fight, fight, fight..."  Joe Early

throws a wild punch that hits Joel in the side.  joel falls

and stays down, covering himself.

Joel doesn't say anything.  He peeks humiliated at

Clementine.  She's watching him.  She's got a tear in her

eye.  She kneels down beside him, puts her arm around him.

The scene flashes violently to white and is gone.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Mierzwiak is at the machine.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

It's cold.  Joel and Clementine walk, all bundled up.  She

points at a house up the beach.

She runs ahead, laughing.  The scene is decaying.  Joel

chases after her.

He grabs her arm and yanks and they are in:

INT. BOY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

It's dark.  Joel, junior high school size, is in bed

masturbating.  Clementine is in there, too, in her winter

coat, still laughing from before.  She realizes what's going

on.

Joel's mother pops her head in the door.

The mother backs out, closes the door.  Joel cringes.

Clementine laughs, still in the mode of the memory she was

swiped from.  Flash!  It's all gone.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Joel and Clementine are laughing as she blows out the candle

on a slice of cheesecake in front of her.  Joel hands her a

small wrapped box.

She pulls out the bracelet.  It's the same bracelet Patrick

gave her.

He notices she's starting to fade.

She leans across the table to kiss him.  He grabs her and

runs through the decaying scene and into the vague night.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - DAY

Joel is one of a group of five year olds.  He holds a hammer

and is poised to hit a dead bird in a red wagon.  The other

boys are goading him.

Joel doesn't want to.  Clementine watches.

Joel miserably smashes the bird repeatedly with the hammer.

Red jelly guts cover the hammer and the wagon bottom.  The

kids hoot.

A live bird watches from a tree.  Clementine, still dressed

for her birthday dinner (wearing her new bracelet), pulls

Joel away from the other boys.  The two of them walk down

Joel's suburban street.

She kisses him and they walk holding hands.

Joel looks down at her hand.  It's fading.  The bracelet is

gone.  Clementine is gone.  His childhood house is gone.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mierzwiak works the equipment.  He has located a small area

of light in the brain imaging and eradicates them.

Mary sits on the bed.

Stan sighs, grabs his coat.

Mary doesn't say anything.  Stan huffs and is out the door.

Mierzwiak continues to find and erase points of light.  Mary

gets up her courage to speak.

Mary is thrilled, beside herself.  She tries to calm down.

He smiles at her.  She's flustered, flattered.

There's an embarrassed moment as that line hangs in the air.

Then Mary plunges ahead to bury it.

She smiles, proud and embarrassed.

Mierzwiak seems momentarily taken aback, then returns to his

unflappable self.

She leans over and kisses him, then pulls away quickly.

Mierzwiak comforts her with a hug.  It turns into kiss.  He

pulls away.

He smiles sadly at her.  She smiles courageously at him.

They look at each other a long while, then Howard goes back

to locating and eradicating blips of lights.

EXT. JOEL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Stan sits in the van and smokes a cigarette.  He has an

unobstructed view into Joel's bedroom window.  He watches

Mierzwiak and Mary.  They're talking as Howard works.  It

appears to be a very serious discussion.  A car pulls up

outside.  Stan turns to see.  A middle-aged woman gets out,

checks the address on Joel's building, approaches the only

lit window, watches Mierzwiak and Mary inside.  Mierzwiak's

resolve has apparently weakened and he and Mary kiss again.

This time it leads to groping, partial undressing, and

falling onto the bed alongside the unconscious Joel.  The

woman in the window is transfixed.  As Mierzwiak fumbles to

unzip his pants, he catches sight of the woman in the window.

He practically shrieks and jumps up.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Joel and Clementine walking, hand-in-hand, look up

simultaneously.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Mary looks confusedly at Howard.

She follows his eyes and sees the woman in the window, who

turns and walks off in a huff.

Mierzwiak is already in his coat.  He's out the door.

EXT. JOEL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

The woman is at her car.  Stan watches from the van.

Mierzwiak is hurrying to the woman.

Mary is right behind Mierzwiak now.  Hollis is in her car.

Hollis turns, looks at Mary and then at Mierzwiak.

Stan is out of the van now, listening.  Mary shivers in the

cold, hugs herself.  There's a long silence.  Then:

Hollis and Mierzwiak have locked eyes.  Mary looks back and

forth between them.  Hollis starts her car.

She drives off.  Mary watches Howard with increased

foreboding.

He shuffles inside.  Mary stands there, unable to digest

this, struggling in vain to remember.  Stan watches.

Mary shakes her head "no."  She walks off, dazed.

EXT. CHARLES RIVER - NIGHT

Clementine and Patrick lie on their backs on the frozen river

and look up at the night sky.

Clementine looks over at him.  Their eyes meet.  She sobs.

She hurries toward the shore, slips on the ice, gets up, and

continues, now running.

INT. COMMUTER TRAIN - NIGHT

Mary, in shock, sits in the empty fluorescent car.  She tries

to look out the window but can only see her own reflection.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

It's deathly silent as Mierzwiak and Stan work on completing

the job.  Mierzwiak locates a light hidden very deep in the

map of Joel's brain.  He targets it.

EXT. ROWBOAT - DAY

Joel, the size of a ten year old, sits fishing with his

oversized father.  Clementine is naked and in the boat, too.

She's reading The Play by Stephen Dixon.

Joel is his father.  The father is drunk and sullen.  He

faces away from Joel, looks out at the lake.

Clementine watches the frightened, confused Joel.

The scene poops out of existence with a flash of light.

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Joel finds himself eating Chinese food and sitting across

from Clementine.  He is ragged and jarred.

She is wearing the black dress.

INT. DRESS SHOP - SHOP

The scene has already been erased.  It's just a decayed husk.

A vague Joel watches a vague Clementine model a black dress.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Clementine wears a generic black dress now.

There is a long silence.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Joel and Clementine pull up to Clementine's house.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel and Clementine are in the midst of awkward shy sex.

The scene starts to fade.  Joel watches Clementine disappear.

INT. LACUNA RECEPTION AREA - NIGHT

Mary enters the dark room, frazzled.  She flips on the

fluorescent lights and searches the file folders, finds one

with her name on it.  Her jaw drops.  With a shaky hand, she

puts the tape into the player on her desk and presses "play."

Mary slumps to the floor.  We move into her eyes.

A SERIES OF MURKY IMAGES.  NO DETAIL.

A flirtatious look from Mierzwiak.

A vague shot of a wind-up frog.

A vague shot of Mierzwiak mouthing to Mary's voice.

Back to Mary sitting on the floor, listening to the tape.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel sits in the quiet living room.  The scene is fading.

INT. ROOM - DAY

An elderly man sits.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel sits.

The scene dissolves.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - DAY

Namoi is red-eyed from crying.  She is packing things in

boxes.  Joel paces, steals glances at her, doesn't know what

to say.  She holds up a book.  The scene starts to fade.

She tosses it in a box.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - DAY

Joel watches out the window as Naomi stuffs a final box in

the trunk of a car.  There's another woman down there with

her.  They get into the car and drive off.

INT. BORDER'S BOOKSTORE - NIGHT

Joel talks to Clementine.  The scene is fogging over.

Clementine shrugs.  The scene fades.

EXT. PARK - DAY

Joel walks with Naomi.

Naomi walks off.  Joel watches her.  The scene fades.

INT. BORDER'S BOOKSTORE - NIGHT

Joel enters, looks around.  There's no sign of Clementine.

Joel approaches a male employee.

Joel climbs stairs, searches the aisle, spots Clementine.

She turns.

She goes back to stacking.  Joel stands there helplessly.

The scene is disintegrating.  Clementine's speech is

delivered without passion.

The scene is gone.

INT. ROB AND CARRIE'S CAR - NIGHT

Joel sits forlornly in the back seat.  Rob drives and Carrie

sits in the front passenger seat.  The car stops in front of

Joel's apartment building.

The car door closes.

INT. BUILDING STAIRWAY - NIGHT

Joel climbs the stairs.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The lights are off.  Joel sits on a chair near the window,

writing in his journal.  The streetlight illuminates the

paper.  Naomi sleeps in the bed.

Naomi turns over in bed, sees Joel.

The room is starting to decompose.

Naomi turns over.  Joel goes back to his writing.

The scene has turned to a husk.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - AFTERNOON

Joel is at his closet, putting on a sweater.  Naomi is at the

dining room table, papers spread out before her, writing.

Joel turns and watches her for a moment.

The scene is fading.

He approaches Naomi, kisses her on the top of the head.  She

continues to write.

INT. ROB AND CARRIE'S CAR - NIGHT

Rob drives.  Carrie fiddles with the radio dial in the front

passenger seat.  Joel sits in the back.

Joel looks out the window.  Carrie turns around and says

something to Joel.  She is backlit, her hair a halo of frizz.

Joel looks out he window.  He sees the husk of a memory on

the darkened roadside.  It's Joel and Carrie in:

INT. ROB AND CARRIE'S KITCHEN - DAY

Faded.  Carrie and Joel sit at the table with coffee.

EXT. BEACH PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Rob, Carrie, and Joel emerge from the car, parked amidst a

small cluster of cars in an otherwise empty parking lot.

EXT. BEACH - NIGHT

Joel watches his shoes in the sand as he trudges along.

EXT. BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Joel, Rob, and Carrie step out of the brush and see a bonfire

down the beach.  People and music can be heard.

EXT. BEACH - LATER

Joel sits on a log, a paper plate of chicken and corn on his

lap.  People warm themselves at the fire.  Joel watches

couples talking, kissing, Rob sharing a joint with a guy.

Joel looks down to the water.  There's Clementine, in her

orange hooded sweatshirt, looking out to sea.

A shot of the orange sleeve.  Joel looks up.

A shot of her green hair.

She picks a drumstick off of Joel's plate.

Shot of a smudge of chicken grease on Clementine's chin.

She smiles.

She nods.

Joel and Clementine are walking near the surf.

Joel and Clementine wander near some beach houses closed for

the winter.

Joel chuckles appreciatively.

Clementine tries one of the doors on a darkened house.  Joel

is nervous.

She walks to the next house, tries the door.

She finds a window that's unlatched.  She lifts it.

She scrambles in the window.  Joel looks around, panicked.

The front door opens and Clementine stands there beckoning.

He walks cautiously toward the door.

INT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Joel enters the darkened and Clementine closes the door

behind him.

She's searching through drawers for something.  She pulls out

a flashlight, shines it in Joel's face.

She runs upstairs, giggling.  The room is drying out, turning

into a husk.

Clementine comes downstairs, vague and robotic, making her

way through the decaying environment.

She smiles.  They kiss.  It fades.

EXT. BEACH - NIGHT

Joel finds himself hurrying back to the bonfire.  This scene,

too, is disintegrating.  It dries up and Joel is just

standing there on a faded beach at night, the bonfire frozen

in the distance like a photograph.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Joel sits in the back seat, Rob and Carrie are in the front.

Joel nods glumly.

Carrie continues to talk, but her voice goes under as Joel

studies the faded husks of memories, piled like refuse

outside the moving car window.  He sees dried-out version of

previous interactions with Clementine playing out in loops.

He looks back and sees the memory of his ride home from the

beach with Rob and Carrie.  It, too, is decaying.  Soon all

has crumbled into dust.  Everything goes black.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Howard watches the monitor.  The last specks of light are

fading.  It grows dark.  He is tired, his eyes are hollow.

He turns to Stan, who is staring out the window at the dawn.

Stan turns and wordlessly begins the clean-up.  He pulls the

electrodes off of Joel's scalp, coils cable, packs bags.

Howard dials the bedside phone.  He waits as it rings.

Howard hangs up.

EXT. JOEL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - EARLY MORNING

Stan and Howard load the last of the equipment into the back

of the van.  He and Howard look at each other.

INT. PATRICK'S CAR - EARLY MORNING

Patrick and Mary are heading home from Boston.  Mary is

silent and depressed.  Patrick tries to break the silence.

Mary shakes her head "no."  Long silence.

Mary doesn't say anything.  Silence.

EXT. PARKING STRUCTURE - EARLY MORNING

Stan pulls the van into space marked "Lacuna."  He gets out,

crosses to his car.  Mary is sitting on the hood.

She watches him closely, waiting for him to continue.

Mary starts to cry.

Mary says nothing.

She stops but doesn't turn to face him.

He nods.  She waves, heads to the elevator.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Joel awakens.  The apartment is neat, like when he went to

sleep.  He gets out of bed and heads into the bathroom.

EXT. COMMUTER TRAIN STATION - MORNING

Joel waits on the crowded platform.  The platform across the

tracks is empty.  Joel's train arrives.  It's packed.  He

squeezes on with all the other commuters.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Joel works in his cubicle over the light table.  He seems

distracted.  He dials his phone.  He's nervous.

INT. LACUNA RECEPTION AREA - DAY

Mary does paperwork at her desk.  She looks through her

reception window at the sad people waiting in the lobby with

their bags of stuff.

INT. MIERZWIAK'S OFICE - CONTINUOUS

Mierzwiak dials his phone and waits.  He hangs up.  Mary

enters with the papers.

He takes it, unable to make eye contact.  He signs it, hands

it back.

She looks at him for a long while.  Then, out of frustration,

she screams.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Joel sits across from Naomi.

INT. JOEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Joel and Naomi are in bed having sex.  There are certain

sexual routines, habits, they have fallen back into almost

immediately.  She sticks her tongue in his ear in a way

that's trying to be sexual but just feels embarrassing to

him.  They finish and lie there.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Clementine lies in bed with Patrick.

EXT. COMMUTER TRAIN STATION - MORNING

The platform is crowded with business commuters.  Joel is

among them.

The platform across the tracks from them is empty.  Suddenly,

Joel turns and makes his way through the crowd.  He climbs

the stairs, crosses the overpass and makes his way to the

empty platform.  An almost empty train pulls into that

platform.  Joel gets on the train and watches the business

commuters through the dirty window as his train pulls out of

the station.

INT. MARY'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Mary gets out of bed.  She has been crying all night.  She's

a wreck.  She puts on some coffee then crosses into the

living room area.  Sitting there are piles of the files from

work.  She pulls the top one out, copies the name and address

onto an envelope stuffs the file and tape cassette in.  She

pulls another file out.  This one has Joel's name on it.  She

copies it onto an envelope.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel says goodbye to Clementine.

Joel exits.  We stay on Clementine as she watches Joel head

to his car, tromping through the snow.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Joel enters, drops his overcoat on a chair, dials the phone.

Joel flips on messages with volume down.

She hangs up and Joel stands there for a minute feeling

creepy, then he dials the number on a piece of paper.

EXT. CHARLES RIVER - NIGHT

Clementine steps out onto it.  Joel follows nervously.

She takes his hand and he is suddenly imbued with confidence.

She squeezes his hand.

She runs and slides on the ice.  Joel is by himself now.

Clementine lies on her back and stares up at the stars.  Joel

is paralyzed.  He looks back at the shore.

He hesitates then gingerly makes his way over to her.  She

reaches for his hand and gently pulls him down.  He lies on

his back beside her, their bodies touching.  He wants to turn

to her, but out of shyness, doesn't.  She holds his hand.

They look up at the stars.  She smiles, doesn't say anything

and snuggles closer to him.

She smiles up at the sky.

MONTAGE

We see people going to their mailboxes, finding manila

envelopes.  One by one they open the envelopes and pull out

tapes.  We see stunned, confused, disbelieving reactions as

people listen to their tapes.

EXT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Joel drops Clementine off.  She kisses him.

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - A FEW MINUTES LATER

Joel enters with his mail.  He opens a manila envelope, reads

the enclosed file, sticks the cassette tape in his stereo,

listens.  Joel dials the phone.

MONTAGE

We see the people we saw opening envelopes, now on the phone.

We hear over and over:  "Is this true?", "Did this really

happen?", "Do I know you?", "Is it true?"

INT. ROB AND CARRIE'S KITCHEN - DAY

Carrie is on the phone.  She pauses nervously, then speaks:

INT. JOEL'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Joel hangs up.  He dials the phone.

Joel is immersed in the several page document.

Joel doesn't know what to say as this registers.  He just

stands there dumbly.

INT. CLEMENTINE'S APARTMENT - LATER

Joel and Clementine review their separate Lacuna packages

together.

She smiles at nervous Joel.

She unbuttons her blouse.

She takes off her shirt.  He stares at her.  He has clearly

never seen this body before.

She approaches him, kisses him, his arms wrap around her

waist for the first time.

INT. LACUNA LTD. WAITING ROOM - MORNING

Stan enters the waiting room, now crowded with people holding

their files, a stunned-looking lot.  There is a new woman in

the reception window.  The file cases behind her are bare.

INT. MIERZWIAK'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Stan enters.  Mierzwiak is pale and pacing.

Mierzwiak turns up the volume on a small video monitor

looking in on the lab, where Patrick has clearly taken over

Stan's position.  He is in the process of interviewing a sad

young woman.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Joel works over his light box.  His phone rings.

INT. MARY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Mary opens the door.  Stan stands there with two cups of take

out coffee.

She steps aside for Stan to enter.  He does, looks around,

sees the tapes and the stuffed envelopes on the floor.

Stan doesn't know what to say.  He stands there dumbly.  Mary

slumps into a ball on a chair.

Long pause, then:

They look at each other.

EXT. PARK - AFTERNOON

Vague elliptical images of a young girl on a swig.

Vague shots of a man smiling, a scruffy dog on a leash.

Vague shot of the man, his voice overlapping with the

woman's.

Shot of the girl petting the dog.

The girl nods.

INT. LACUNA RECEPTION AREA - DAY

Mary, with a headset on, looks up, startled.  She switches

off the tape.  She has been crying.  There's a pile of tapes

next to her.  The distraught woman is standing there.

The woman sits.  Mary presses an intercom button.

She switches the tape back on.

Vague shot of the girl being raped.

INT. COMMUTER TUBE - DAY

The old woman is staring off blankly, her giant manuscript in

her lap, as she travels over the New York skyline.  We move

into her eyes.

INT. VAGUE SPACE

Vague reenactments of memories intermingle in this undefined

space:

The young girl being raped by the man in the car.

A soldier on a battlefield looking at his slaughtered

friends.

A couple fighting, from the woman's point of view.

They look at each other in silence.

A little boy being called "faggot" by an endless succession

of boys.

The aftermath of a car accident from the driver's POV.

Mary having an abortion.

INT. COMMUTER TUBE - DAY

The old woman and her chair lift out of the line of

commuters.

INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY

It's modern and well-appointed.  The old woman enters, sits

behind the reception desk, drops her manuscript into the

drawer.   She takes some pills with water.  An old man

enters.

Old Howard mutters something and disappears into the back.

Old Mary pulls out a file from behind, removes a small disc,

places it in a machine on her desk, slips on earphones and

listens, somewhat wearily but attentively.  We watch the

color drain from her face, but don't hear the recording.

Another old woman enters the office.  Old Mary looks up,

seems a bit startled, conceals it, turns off the tape.

The second old woman smiles gratefully.

INT. OLD MAN'S OFFICE - A FEW MINUTES LATER

Old Howard works at his desk.  Old Mary enters with the

second old woman.

Old Howard and the old Mary eye each other.

He indicates a sitting area.  She sits.  He joins her.

She shakes her hear.  He punches a couple of buttons on his

computer console.  A tape recorder starts up and his computer

screen lights up so only he can see it.  On it we see a whole

file on Clementine Kruczynski: a list of fifteen dates of

previous erasures stretching back fifty years, all of them

involving Joel Barish.

INT. TUBE - NIGHT

The old woman (Mary) travels in the commuter tube over

Manhattan.  It's late, the tube is mostly empty.  She has

earphones on.

INT. VAGUE SPACE

An old man and the second old woman eat breakfast.

The old man looks up from his cereal and stares blankly.  The

woman smiles, but there is no response... just a dead stare.

INT. TUBE - CONTINUOUS

The second old woman's (Clementine) voice drones tinnily on

in the distance.  The old woman with the earphones is dead,

her eyes glassy and unseeing.

INT. SECOND OLD WOMAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The old Clementine is unconscious on her bed, hooked up to

modern versions of the erasing machines.  Two young

technicians monitor the equipment.  The woman's bedside phone

rings.  Her machine picks up.  After a moment:

The machine clicks off.  One of the technicians reaches over

and presses the "erase" button on the machine.

BLACK.

THE END

