HAZEL GRACE LANCASTER (16) lies in the grass, staring up at

the stars. We're CLOSE ON her FACE and we hear:

CUT TO a SERIES OF QUICK IMAGES:

- Hazel and the BOY we will come to know as AUGUSTUS "GUS"

WATERS (17) at an outdoor restaurant in some magical place.

[They look very much like the perfect Hollywood couple.]

- "Perfect" Hazel and "Perfect" Gus sit on a BENCH

overlooking an incredible seascape in some foreign country.

She rests her head on his shoulder.

- "Perfect" Hazel and "Perfect" Gus kiss in a dark room.

- "Perfect" Hazel and "Perfect" Gus fall onto a bed together.

They look deep into one another's eyes.

BACK TO Hazel on the grass, still watching the stars. Were

those dreams or were they memories? Still unclear.

Hazel closes her eyes.

And EVERYTHING GOES BLACK. We HEAR:

INT DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

The real Hazel is no less beautiful than the one we just saw.

There are, however, some key and obvious differences.

First, you'll notice the OXYGEN TUBE in her nostrils which

help her to breathe.

Second, you'll notice her hair - which we couldn't see in the

grass. It's much shorter than the "Perfect" version, the

result of someone whose head was completely shaved a few

years before.

Hazel's legs dangle over the side of an exam table. Her

mother FRANNIE (early 40s, younger than she feels) explains

to the DOCTOR:

Off her look, CUT TO:

QUICK SEQUENCE, which play over:

- A SHOPPING MALL. Filled with TEENAGE GIRLS - gossipping,

laughing - being teenage girls, basically. And here's Hazel.

With her Mom. And her oxygen tank. Just another day.

- HAZEL'S LIVING ROOM. She sits watching game shows in the

middle of the afternoon. Her Mom brings her a sandwich. A

glass of water. And then a whole host of prescription meds.

Hazel eyes them with indifference.

- A STARBUCKS. Hazel sits alone reading a dog-eared, heavily

underlined copy of a novel ("An Imperial Affliction" by Peter

Van Houten). She only looks up when distracted by a squeal of

delight. A YOUNG GUY has lifted a YOUNG GIRL over his

shoulder playfully. He spins her around. Hazel watches a beat

- goes back to the book.

And we CUT BACK TO:

INT DOCTOR'S OFFICE - SAME

Frannie continues to talk to the doctor. Hazel continues to

dangle her feet.

The Doctor scratches his beard, thinking.

The Doctor looks at Frannie who just shakes her head.

Instead of answering, Hazel looks at her Mom.

Hazel rolls her eyes, knows she's lost this battle.

INT CHURCH BASEMENT - DAY

CLOSE UP on PATRICK (30s, pony-tail). He has a guitar.

ANGLE on Hazel who just shakes her head. This is the lamest

thing she could be doing right now.

The basement is filled with SICK PEOPLE. Hazel among them.

Most are under the age of 18. QUICK CUTS:

As Hazel watches, bored, and Patrick continues, we hear:

They all say:

Hazel says it the least enthusiastically. She locks eyes with

her only friend in Support Group, a blonde kid with an eye

patch, ISAAC. He's also shaking his head.

Oh no. Patrick gestures for her to speak. Reluctantly she

stands, sighs...

Not much more to say, Hazel is about to sit down.

Hazel has no idea how to answer that.

But that's not what she says. She says:

Isaac tries not to laugh at this. Hazel sits back down.

Hazel exhales. This is not at all helpful. A few more beats.

EXT CHURCH - LATER

Frannie sits in the car in the parking lot, reading from a

book, waiting for Group to be over. She sees the church door

open and puts the book away. Hazel comes out. Frannie looks

at her like "well, was it great?" Hazel just exhales and gets

in the car. CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S LIVING ROOM - ANOTHER DAY

"America's Next Top Model" is on the TV. Hazel sits on one

side of the L-shaped couch, flipping through her novel.

Frannie and Hazel's dad MICHAEL (40s, kind, doing his best to

stay positive) sit on the other side, watching her - but

trying not to make it seem that way. After a few beats:

Frannie and Michael look at one another, don't say anything.

Hazel looks up from the book. Sees her parents. Gets an idea.

Frannie and Michael look at one another again.

Hazel sighs. And just like that, everyone goes back to what

they were doing. CUT TO:

QUICK SEQUENCE, which plays over:

- Hazel watching TV, book in hand.

- Hazel in another doctor's office.

- Hazel popping pills.

INT HAZEL'S KITCHEN - ANOTHER DAY

Hazel and her parents in the kitchen.

Hazel frowns.

Hazel mock stabs herself in the stomach with an invisible

sword. CUT TO:

EXT CHURCH - ESTABLISHING

A small Episcopalian sanctuary in suburban Indianapolis.

Frannie's car pulls up close to the back entrance.

Hazel, oxygen tank in toe, gets out of the car with Frannie's

assistance.

Hazel knows she's not planning to run any errands. She

doesn't press the issue.

As Frannie gets back in the car, she shouts to her daughter:

Hazel just shakes her head. CUT TO:

INT CHURCH - SAME

Hazel walks towards the elevator. An EXTREMELY SICK LOOKING

KID holds it open for her. Hazel thinks better of it.

The KID nods. The doors shut. Hazel is reminded - it could

always be worse. She turns to go, walking right into:

Ooph. Sorry!

A SUPREMELY BEAUTIFUL BOY (we will come to know him as GUS).

Tall, lean, muscular, straight short mahogany hair, blue

eyes. Hazel has never seen a better looking kid in her life.

My bad. No, it's...

For a brief moment, the Earth stops. They stand looking at

one another. Hazel is speechless.

With the Beautiful Boy watching, a wan smile on his face,

Hazel shuffles off as fast as she can, ducking into:

INT BATHROOM - SAME

Hazel catches her breath. Shakes her head. Surprised at

herself.

She looks in the mirror. So doesn't like what she sees. The

Earth starts moving again. CUT TO:

INT CHURCH BASEMENT - LATER

Hazel sits in the Circle of Sick.

No volunteers. Hazel catches sight of the Beautiful Boy,

sitting next to Isaac. He seems to be watching her, that same

flirty smile on his face. She self-consciously looks away.

Isaac nods, rises.

Hazel tries to focus on what Isaac's saying but it's

difficult. She still feels the Beautiful Boy's gaze on her.

As Isaac shares, the Beautiful Boy doesn't look away from

Hazel. Hazel finds this intimidating. And intimidation

irritates her. So she decides to play the game with him,

meeting his gaze and holding it just as firmly.

A staring contest.

Isaac nods towards the Beautiful Boy who now has a name -

AUGUSTUS. He still doesn't look away from Hazel.

The staring contest continues another few beats until:

This causes the Beautiful Boy to momentarily look away. Aha,

he's lost the contest! Hazel smiles, flicks her eyebrows up

as if to say "Victory is mine!" He smiles back at her, the

most radiant smile on the planet. He turns back to the Group.

Gus holds up his right leg - a prosthetic.

Hazel smiles. Gus catches this. Embarrassed, she stops

smiling and looks away.

Gus thinks about this.

ANGLE ON Hazel, intrigued.

Patrick doesn't quite have the tools to deal with that.

And Hazel's hand goes up. Even Patrick is surprised by that.

Hazel stands, takes a second to gather her thoughts. Augustus

watches her, waits for it.

Gus is now even more fixed on her than before.

The look on Gus's face is unreadable.

A beat. And then an enormous smile spreads across Gus's face,

not a flirty smile but a surprised one, a real one. CUT TO:

EXT OUTSIDE THE CHURCH - LATER

Hazel waits for her Mom's car to appear.

Across the parking lot, she sees Isaac going at it with a

redhead, MONICA (17), sucking face like there's no tomorrow

against the door of her green Pontiac Firebird. Between

kisses, we can hear:

Always. Always.

And Hazel hears:

Hazel turns to find the Beautiful Boy, Augustus, standing

right next to her.

Hazel smiles.

Gus laughs.

Gus nods to himself, smiles. Still fixated on her.

Hazel is taken aback. No one's ever said that to her before.

A CUTE YOUNG GIRL walks past them.

Hazel isn't surprised that other girls know Gus. Of course

they do. She turns back towards Isaac and Monica pawing at

each other. She hears:

Always. Always.

They continue to watch the show. It's pretty gross. Isaac

squeezes Monica's breast like a clown horn.

Hazel is again surprised.

He shrugs. Hazel has never seen someone so confident.

As Hazel mulls this over, Gus reaches into his pocket and

pulls out, of all things, a pack of cigarettes! Hazel is in

disbelief. He flips the box open, puts a cigarette between

his lips.

As she rants, Gus continues to look at her with that smile on

his face. Hazel does not find it so amusing.

Hazel folds her arms and turns away from him.

Gus takes a beat and then moves to face her, the smile still

etched on his face.

Hazel turns back to him.

Hazel is floored. And impressed.

Gus holds her gaze. And it's at this point Frannie pulls up.

Hazel looks at Gus, cigarette dangling from his lips. Cool as

anything. Handsome as hell. She looks back at her mom.

And with that, she walks off. Frannie looks at the boy with

the cigarette in his mouth. This could be trouble. Or

awesome. Or both. And we CUT TO:

INT GUS'S CAR - LATER

Hazel is terrified. Turns out, Gus is the world's worst

driver. When he brakes, her body flies forward against the

seatbelt. And when he hits the gas, seconds later, her neck

snaps back in the seat. Gus sees the look on her face.

Another brake forces Hazel against the seat belt.

A few beats of silence.

Hazel takes a deep breath. She's told this story before but

somehow this seems different.

And as she speaks, we see it unfold. SMASH CUT TO:

INT HOSPITAL BED - FLASHBACK

13-YEAR OLD HAZEL has a biopsy.

INT OPERATING ROOM - FLASHBACK

13-YEAR OLD HAZEL on the operating table. It's a nightmare.

INT SEVERAL MORE HOSPITAL ROOMS - FLASHBACK

This poor little girl is taking a beating. And it's just

getting started.

- Radiation treatment.

- Having her head shaved by Frannie.

- With a PICC line in a chemo chair.

- A RADIOLOGIST looks at an X-ray. He's not pleased.

- 14-Year Old Hazel lies in bed, struggling to breathe.

Frannie runs her fingers through her hair. Dad calls 9-1-1.

- In the ICU, her parents standing over her.

14-Year Old Hazel nods. Michael can't keep it together any

longer. He completely breaks down.

INT ICU - THE NEXT MORNING

The sun shines in the room. 14-year old Hazel eats ice chips,

the color has returned to her cheeks.

INT YET ANOTHER HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Slightly older Hazel is getting more intravenous medication.

It's never ending.

- A SECOND RADIOLOGIST examines a second X-ray.

The Radiologist looks surprised.

And finally, BACK TO:

INT GUS'S CAR - SAME

Gus has one eye on the road, the other on Hazel. He was

impressed with her before. He's totally dazzled now.

He smiles at her. She smiles back. Shoves his upper arm

playfully. They're easing into each other.

Eventually Gus's car pulls into his driveway.

He's as good at parking as he is at driving. CUT TO:

EXT/INT GUS'S HOUSE - SAME

Hazel follows Gus inside. She quickly notices all sorts of

engraved plaques and framed signs with phrases like "Home is

Where the Heart Is" and "True Love is Born from Hard Times."

Hazel looks at Gus quizzically.

Gus's MOM and DAD (40s) are in the kitchen making dinner.

Gus's parents don't seem surprised to see Gus with some

random girl in their house. Hazel takes note of that.

Gus drags Hazel to the next room. As she's pulled:

They walk down the carpeted stairs - Gus having an easier

time with his one leg than Hazel is with her oxygen tank and

weak lungs.

Eventually they arrive at Gus's basement bedroom. There's a

TV with a video game console, a few band posters, and a whole

host of basketball memorabilia (autographed sneakers, school

trophies, framed images etc.) Gus sees her looking at them.

Gus grabs a DVD from his stack of DVDs. Hazel sits down on

the bed, her breathing noticeably heavier.

Gus sits down next to her on the bed.

Gus smiles. He waits for her breathing to slow down. In time:

Hazel nods, smiles.

Gus pulls a book from his bookshelf.

Hazel looks at the slim, ridiculous novella. She laughs.

She's adorable when she laughs. She takes the book from him

and as she does, their hands get tangled together for a

brief, charged moment.

Hazel blushes. And off her completely smitten smile, CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - ANOTHER NIGHT

Hazel sits in bed reading Gus's novella. Frannie stands in

the doorway, notices the new book.

Hazel shrugs. Frannie looks intrigued.

Frannie rolls her eyes. Hazel's phone buzzes. She excitedly

checks it - only to be disappointed. Frannie notices.

Frannie says nothing to that. Her silence says it all. Hazel

rolls her eyes. CUT TO:

QUICK SERIES OF SCENES:

Hazel continues "not to wait" for Gus's call. We see her:

- Brushing her teeth. And checking her phone.

- Watching TV. And checking her phone.

- Eating breakfast. And checking her phone.

- Looking out the window on a rainy day. Trying not to check

her phone. Willing herself to not check the goddamn phone.

And checking the phone.

Where is he?! Did he forget about her?

INT HAZEL'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hazel at the dinner table with her parents. She's a little

sullen, barely touching her food.

Hazel's phone buzzes. She tries not to seem too eager to

check it, what with her parents watching and all. She subtly

looks down at her lap. And sure enough: a text from Gus! Her

eyes bug out. We see:

"Tell me my copy is missing the last ten pages or something."

Hazel smiles. Goes back to eating. Frannie and Michael share

a quick glance. A second later, there's a follow-up text.

"Tell me I have NOT reached the end of this book!"

Hazel smiles again.

And then a third text:

"A BOOK CAN"T END IN THE MIDDLE OF A SENTENCE?! WHAT IN GOD'S

NAME IS THIS MADNESS! AAAAHHHH!"

Hazel now laughs out loud. Michael clears his throat. Hazel

looks up.

EXT HAZEL'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - MOMENTS LATER

Hazel sits down on a patio chair and dials the phone. Gus

answers on the first ring.

At which point she hears a loud WAIL coming from the other

end of the phone.

INTERCUT between Hazel on the patio and:

INT GUS'S BASEMENT BEDROOM - SAME

Isaac's head is buried in Gus's couch. He's wailing like a

banshee, having some kind of nervous breakdown.

Hazel hears more wailing. Has no idea what to make of it.

Hazel genuinely has no idea what the hell is going on.

Hazel waits a few beats for Gus to come back on. Finally:

Hazel thinks about this. And on her face, CUT TO:

INT GUS'S BASEMENT - LATER

Hazel descends the steps. She hears an ungodly moan before

she sees anyone. What has she gotten herself into? Gus

appears at the base.

Gus waits for a response. None comes. He gestures for her to

follow him into the room. Before he does:

Hazel blushes, follows Gus into the room to find Isaac

sitting upside down in a gaming chair. Tears are flowing down

his reddened cheeks. Empty soda cans and bags of junk food

lie around him.

Again, no response. Hazel looks to Gus for an explanation.

Isaac starts to sob again.

Gus winks at her. At which point, Isaac lets out another

howl. Gus gestures for Hazel to sit. The two of them flank

Isaac. He finally speaks.

Hazel rubs his shoulder in sympathy.

It's silent for a beat. And then Isaac stands up, a funny

look on his face.

Suddenly Isaac starts kicking his chair across the room.

The chair lands against the bed. Gus hands Isaac something

else to throw, a pillow. Isaac grabs the pillow and slams it

against the wall. He dives on it and beings pummeling the

pillow like a maniac.

And so he does. As he continues to, Gus looks at Hazel,

cigarette dangling from his mouth.

Hazel beams. Gus totally gets the book. A bond between them.

Gus stands and takes the pillow out of Isaac's hand.

Gus hands Isaac one of his basketball TROPHIES.

Isaac looks at it, then back to Gus as if asking permission.

Gus nods. Isaac holds it over his head and SMASH! The trophy

breaks into a million pieces. Isaac almost smiles. Gus hands

him another.

And Isaac does. Smashing them one by one. Hazel looks at Gus.

Isaac grabs more of the TROPHIES, smashing them to pieces.

Gus and Hazel enjoy the spectacle. When there are none left

Isaac is panting, standing over the bronze carnage.

Isaac thinks about it. Shakes his head no. Gus puts his arm

around him but looks at Hazel.

Hazel smiles. And on her face, we CUT TO:

INT LANCASTER HOUSE - DINING ROOM - ANOTHER NIGHT

Where Hazel is having dinner with her parents.

Hazel nods. This could be a source of worry but she's not

going to think about that right now. She's upbeat. And she's

actually eating, which her parents can't help but notice.

Frannie and Michael look at one another, pleased.

Hazel's phone buzzes. "Augustus." She looks to her parents.

EXT HAZEL'S BACKYARD - MOMENTS LATER

Hazel lays on the grass in her backyard staring up at the

stars. She rings him back and as she does SPLITSCREEN w/

Hazel in the grass and:

INT GUS'S BASEMENT BEDROOM - SAME

Gus (upside down) in bed, a laptop on his chest.

Gus clears his throat, smiles. Hazel waits.

Hazel sits up. Could it be...?

Hazel pays attention to every word.

Hazel jumps up as fast as her lungs will allow. CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Hazel sits at her computer, Van Houten's assistant's email

address staring her in the face. The cursor blinks on a blank

page. And then Hazel starts writing...

While Hazel reads the letter, we see a SERIES OF SCENES

showing the next several days. They include:

- Hazel and Gus drinking coffees at a cafe. He's

enthusiastically telling a story and she's enjoying every

moment of it.

- Hazel helping Gus become a better driver. It's no use.

- In his kitchen, laughing, trying to make omelettes.

- Watching TV. Their bodies almost touching. But not quite.

And finally, back in Hazel's bedroom. She finishes reading

this letter into the phone.

INTERCUT w/ Gus bouncing a ball against the wall, listening.

Hazel smiles, looks at a clock.

Neither one of them want to hang up the phone.

They both laugh at this.

Hazel smiles.

Gus hangs up. We stay with Hazel. Is it really possible this

Beautiful Boy likes her? She thinks about it. She's not

convinced. CUT TO:

INT HOSPITAL - RECOVERY ROOM - DAY

Isaac lies in bed, bandages covering his eyes, now officially

blind. A NURSE attends to him while Hazel sits by his side.

The Nurse exits the room.

They laugh and then lapse into silence for a moment.

Hazel thinks about it as Isaac presses the button on his pain

pump, self-administering morphine.

Isaac exhales as the pain pump starts to kick in.

But Isaac is already asleep. Whatever he was going to say

about Gus is gone. Hazel nods, pats his hand. CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Hazel rolls out of bed, stumbles to her computer. She

casually checks her in-box and is shocked to discover - he's

written her back!

Hazel's jaw hangs open as she reads the next part:

Frannie races in, clearly expecting a health problem.

Hazel shows Frannie the note. Frannie reads it.

Frannie thinks about how to respond for a beat.

Clearly Frannie feels awful. Which makes Hazel feel awful.

A beat between them. Frannie walks out, sadly. Hazel sits on

the bed, totally bummed now for two reasons.

EXT SUBURBAN STREET - LATER

Hazel and Gus walk together on the sidewalk.

Hazel doesn't want to say. Gus realizes.

The word "crush" has taken Hazel totally by surprise.

She looks at him. A beat. She quickly looks away, blushing.

Gus continues on about Disney but all Hazel can think about

is "CRUSH". She tries not to seem too excited. CUT TO:

INT PET SCAN ROOM - DAY

Hazel, in a hospital gown, is slowly fed through the machine.

A TECH explains that she should hold still, try and relax,

etc. But Hazel knows. She knows all about these procedures.

She's a pro. CUT TO:

EXT HAZEL'S HOUSE - FRONT

Gus is waiting on the front stoop when Frannie's car pulls

up. They're home from the hospital.

He wears an Indiana Pacers JERSEY and carries a bouquet of

bright orange TULIPS.

Michael gets out of the passenger's seat to help Hazel out of

the car. Gus rises to assist them.

Hazel sees Gus, wasn't expecting him.

INT HAZEL'S LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Gus is with Frannie and Michael downstairs.

Meanwhile, upstairs, Hazel gets ready for the date. She's put

the orange flowers in a toothbrush holder and is putting on

LIP GLOSS. She can faintly hear the conversation downstairs.

ANGLE ON Gus sitting on the stairs. Michael next to him.

ANGLE ON Hazel, checking herself out in the mirror. Seems to

like what she sees a lot more than before.

BACK ON Gus and Michael, downstairs:

ANGLE on Hazel, who can hear all of this. She stops what

she's doing and listens.

Hazel appears, silencing her Father mid-sentence. CUT TO:

EXT PARK - LATER

Behind the Indianapolis Museum of Art is 152 Acres of Gardens

and Grounds. Hazel and Gus walk together.

Hazel laughs, elbows him.

Gus picks a STICK up from the dirt. Draws a BIG CIRCLE in it.

Now Gus draws a much smaller circle inside that circle.

Hazel laughs. Point made. He grabs her hand, helps her walk

up a tiny hill. Once up there, Gus lays a blanket on the

ground. They sit, looking out over a rather odd SCULPTURE - a

set of GIANT WHITE BONES where children can jump and play.

Hazel raises an eyebrow at Gus. He's sure taking this

Amsterdam/Dutch thing pretty far. He removes some sandwiches

and orange juice out of a basket.

They eat for a second, their eyes watching the children play

on the bones.

Gus stands up, takes a cigarette, puts it in his mouth. He

clears his throat.

Hazel nods in agreement.

Gus stops talking. Hazel is confused.

Gus smiles.

Hazel cocks her head to one side. What is he talking about?

She starts to realize.

Hazel is so excited that she grabs Gus and pulls him into a

hug. Their faces close, lips inches apart, and just when it

looks like something might happen --

A beat. Gus blinks a few times.

And kiss him she does. He's surprised. And when it's over,

they sit back, look at one another. A magic moment.

And Hazel is beyond touched. We hear:

INT HAZEL'S UTILITY ROOM - DAY

Frannie folds laundry while Hazel pleads her case.

INT DOCTOR'S OFFICE - ANOTHER DAY

Where Hazel's oncologist DR. MARIA shakes her head.

And judging from her face, seems she'd kinda like to. Dr.

Maria looks at Frannie, shrugs - kid's got a point.

Hazel smiles. And on that smile, we SMASH CUT TO:

Over which, we HEAR:

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

[Note: There's no sound in this sequence. Just images.]

Hazel wakes up screaming in the middle of the night, shaking

and holding her head.

Frannie and Michael burst in. Mom grabs her crying daughter,

frightened beyond belief, waves to Michael to call for help.

He leaves the room to do so and Fran stays behind, rocking

with her daughter, promising her it'll all be ok. Whatever

nightmare this is, it's going to end. CUT TO:

INT FRANNIE'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Still silent. Michael drives, trying to keep it together.

Frannie's in the back with Hazel's head in her lap.

Hazel continues to scream in silence, whether from pain or

terror, we do not know.

INT EMERGENCY ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Michael carries Hazel into the chaotic emergency room.

They're practically running. There's still no sound.

The doctors rally to assist the screaming, crying child.

She's wheeled away from her family who can only watch. We

stay with her and WE HEAR:

END SEQUENCE.

INT HOSPITAL ROOM - ICU - MORNING

The sound returns. And it's the sound of a heart monitor.

BEEP. BEEP. BEEP. It's also the sound of a working heart.

Hazel has made it through. Her eyes open. A NURSE is there.

Even Hazel seems surprised by that.

Hazel nods. The Nurse goes to get them. Soon they come

bounding in, crying and kissing her repeatedly. So much

relief. CUT TO:

LATER. Hazel's bed has been raised up so she can talk to her

parents "comfortably."

There's a TUBE in Hazel's side draining fluid into a plastic

bladder that hangs off her bed.

(That's a lot of fluid.)

Hazel nods. That is a relief.

Frannie embraces her daughter.

Hazel nods again. Only in the universe of Hazel Grace

Lancaster is something like this just a thing. Meanwhile:

INT HOSPITAL ICU - WAITING AREA - LATER

Here's Gus, his foot tapping nervously on the floor. It's

unclear how long he's been waiting there. He sees Michael

walk down the hall. Races after him.

Gus nods, as relieved as the rest of them.

Gus smiles. And sits back down. Though he won't get to see

her, he still wants to stay.

Michael really likes this kid.

Gus looks up. That might be for the best. CUT TO:

INT HOSPITAL - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAYS LATER

Hazel and her Parents sit at a very large conference table

along with Dr. Maria and THREE OTHER ONCOLOGISTS - her whole

"Cancer Team."

Silence. Hazel looks around the room, waits for someone to

answer. No one does.

DR. SIMMONS (late 60s, white beard, old school) speaks next.

Hazel hears the "yet" the loudest.

That comforts no one.

The Doctors look at one another like "who wants to take that

one?" Eventually:

Hazel takes that in, nods, tries to pretend it didn't bother

her. Sensitive Michael on the other hand starts to cry a

little bit. He grabs Frannie's hand.

As Dr. Simmons drones on with some cancer gobbledygook,

Hazel's eyes remain firmly fixed on her parents. She hates

what she's doing to them. And seeing them holding hands,

crying but trying not to cry - it jogs a memory. CUT TO:

INT HOSPITAL ICU - FLASHBACK

We saw this once before. It looks like the end for 13-year

old Hazel. Her father is weeping off to the side while her

mom stands over her, holding her hand, and asking:

13-year old Hazel nods. The doctors get to work. The

anaesthetic takes hold and Hazel goes under. But not enough.

Cause she totally hears her mother say:

She falls into her husband's chest. And we're BACK TO:

INT HOSPITAL - CONFERENCE ROOM

Hazel comes out of the memory when her parents see her

staring at them. She tries to shake it off. Dr. Simmons is

still talking nonsense when:

Dr. Simmons can't help himself. He laughs. Everyone looks at

him. He clears his throat.

The doctors are trying to be delicate here.

And this is like a punch in the gut.

Everyone feels horrible now. Dr. Maria, Frannie and Michael,

and even Hazel. This meeting couldn't have gone worse. And we

EXT HAZEL'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY

Hazel parent's bring her home from the hospital. She looks

miserable. It's clear the last few days have been a big

emotional set back. CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - LATER

Her parents tuck her in.

Hazel nods. Her phone buzzes. She looks at it. A text from

Gus that reads: "ok?" Hazel looks at it.

And she doesn't write back. CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S KITCHEN - ANOTHER NIGHT

Hazel sits staring at nothing. The house phone rings. Michael

comes in from another room with the phone in hand. Whispers:

Hazel thinks about it - silently shakes her head, no. Michael

says into the phone.

Hazel stands and goes into her bedroom, clearly depressed.

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - LATER

Hazel reads from "An Imperial Affliction." Her phone buzzes

again. "Augustus." It just says "hello?" Again she ignores

it.

And then a second text. She looks at it. "The silence is

deafening." She puts the phone back down.

Hazel's heart breaks. She can't take it anymore. She picks

the phone back up. She texts the following:

"I don't know if you'll understand this but I can't see you

anymore. I mean I want to. I just..."

She thinks about the rest. She writes:

"I'm a grenade."

She sends the text. Waits.

And then there's more to say. She sends a second text.

"When I look at you, all I can see is what I'm going to put

you through. I can't have that. I'm sorry."

She sends that text. Waits.

He writes back.

"Ok."

Hazel reads it. Writes back: "Ok."

A beat. Gus responds: "oh my god, stop flirting with me!"

Hazel smiles - she can't help herself! - but she must. She

gets her emotions in check. Puts the phone away. CUT TO:

EXT HAZEL'S HOUSE - ESTABLISHING

An ugly day in Indianapolis.

INT HAZEL'S HOUSE - SAME

Inside, Hazel is about as miserable as the weather. The sky -

and the circumstances - have cast a grey pall over the day.

EXT HAZEL'S HOUSE - BACKYARD

Hazel walks out back. Looks up at the clouds, threatening

rain but not yet delivering it. She sits down in the grass,

on the verge of tears. She looks at the old rusty SWING SET

that's been in her backyard for years.

And starts to cry. Just for a few brief moments, she lets

herself cry.

Then she wipes the tears. Becomes strong again. And makes a

decision.

Hazel dials her phone. We hear:

Hazel is on the verge of losing it again. A few beats of

silence pass by.

Hazel can't help but smile and we CUT TO:

LATER. Same backyard - only now Hazel is with Gus. Which

makes everything better.

They both look at the swing set.

Hazel nudges her head onto his shoulder.

Hazel says nothing.

Hazel looks at him. He's sure not making this easy.

Hazel nods.

Gus is silent. He can't argue. They stand there quietly a few

more beats, looking out at the swing set. Until:

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Hazel sits at the computer screen writing a Craigslist post.

Gus stands next to her.

Gus laughs.

Gus laughs harder. Hazel laughs with him.

Hazel looks at him, not understanding.

Hazel absorbs that. Her feelings for this boy in a tangle.

EXT HAZEL'S HOUSE - BACKYARD

Gus and Hazel watch as a TOWNIE finishes loading the swing

set into the back of his PICK-UP. Gus salutes the swing set

as the truck drives off.

Then he sneaks a quick kiss on Hazel's cheek. She shoots him

a look. Gus throws up his hands.

She playfully elbows him away.

EXT CHURCH - ANOTHER DAY

Hazel walks with Isaac out of Support Group.

Hazel doesn't know what she wants.

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - DAY

Hazel is at her computer reading a new email from Lidewij

Vliegenthart. Clearly Hazel was not expecting this.

Hazel is confused. She stands and walks into the hallway.

No response.

Frannie races out of her room in a towel, dripping wet.

Frannie purses her lips and squints past Hazel. Clearly

unsure what to say.

Frannie can't keep a straight face.

Hazel can't move all that fast to hug her Mom so Frannie

comes to her and they embrace. After:

When she leaves Hazel grabs her cell phone. ANGLE ON IT.

Hazel sends Gus the following text: "STILL FREE MAY 3? :-)"

A moment later Gus responds: "EVERYTHING'S COMING UP WATERS!"

Hazel is over the moon with excitement. She smiles, then

tries to calm herself, knowing it's the best thing.

INT KITCHEN - ONE WEEK LATER

Luggage waits by the door, including oxygen tanks and medical

equipment. Frannie makes breakfast as Hazel enters, now

dressed and excited for the trip.

And a moment later Michael joins them.

They're all going crazy with excitement! CUT TO:

EXT HOUSE - LATER

Michael finishes loading up the car. Kisses his wife goodbye.

He embraces Hazel. She hugs him back and of course he starts

to cry.

Michael lets go of her and wipes away his tears. They look at

each other. Unable to help himself, he grabs her for another

hug. Hazel lets him, laughing.

INT / EXT CAR - LATER

The car is packed with oxygen tanks, a suitcase for clothes,

another for medicines and back-up medicines just in case etc.

Frannie pulls up to Gus's house. They get out of the car and

head to the front door, buzzing with excitement.

As they get close, they can hear a commotion inside. A

WOMAN'S VOICE yelling something unclear, followed by:

Frannie immediately puts her arm around Hazel and quickly

spins her back to the car.

Back at the car, far out of earshot, they wait. Hazel unsure

what that was about. Frannie politely honks the horn.

A moment later Gus emerges from the house, smiling. A travel

bag over his shoulder and a cigarette dangling from his lips.

Frannie doesn't know what to make of any of that. She just

says, when they stop and look at her:

EXT AIRPORT - ESTABLISHING

A SKYCAP helps Hazel, Gus and Frannie with all their bags and

equipment.

INT AIRPORT - MOMENTS LATER

They wait in line for the security checkpoint. When it's

Hazel's turn she unhooks the plastic nubbins from her nose.

Gus places the oxygen tank on the conveyer belt.

Hazel takes slow, careful steps through the metal detector.

She seems determined to get through this without any help.

But upon reaching the other side it's clear that even these

few steps without oxygen were a struggle.

Hazel holds on to the side of the conveyer belt to steady

herself. As soon as her tank reappears she puts the cannula

back in place. Still light-headed, Hazel closes her eyes and

focuses on her breathing. She catches her mom looking at her,

nervously.

INT AIRPORT GATE - LATER

Arriving at the Gate area they draw curious looks from the

OTHER PASSENGERS: Hazel with her oxygen tank, Gus with his

noticeable limp and Frannie helping with the equipment.

A YOUNG COUPLE gets up so that Hazel and Gus can sit.

But they give up their seats anyway. Hazel and Gus take them.

We see various Passengers watching. Hazel ignores the

attention until a LITTLE GIRL (6, cute braids) appears.

The GIRL'S MOTHER swoops in, a little frantic.

Hazel removes her cannula and let's the Little Girl try it.

The Little Girl nods, hands it back to Hazel, who quickly

reattaches it.

They smile at each other before the Little Girl walks back to

her family. She waves. Hazel waves back.

INT AIRPLANE - MOMENTS LATER

Hazel sits in the middle with Frannie on the aisle and Gus at

the window. He looks around, antsy.

Gus shakes his head, he has not. And he's nervous. He pulls a

cigarette out of his pocket and puts it in his mouth. Within

seconds a FLIGHT ATTENDANT rushes over.

The Flight Attendant shoots him a look.

Gus nods and puts the cigarette away.

The engines roar to life and the plane accelerates towards

take off. Gus is getting more worried by the second. He grabs

the arm rest, his eyes wide.

Gus doesn't say it back. Hazel laughs.

Gus grabs Hazel's hand as the plane lifts off. He looks out

the window - they're flying! - and then back to Hazel.

Hazel smiles at his enthusiasm.

He's adorable at this moment. Hazel can't resist leaning over

to give him a kiss on the cheek.

Hazel shoots him a look. Gus shrugs - "what, it's the truth."

Hazel just shakes her head. CUT TO:

LATER. Mid-flight, the plane is dark, Frannie's asleep. Hazel

and Gus watch the same gory action movie. Actually, he

watches the movie. She just watches him watch it. He watches

it with gusto.

Hazel continues to watch him. Try as she might, she's falling

in love. CUT TO:

SFX: the PLANE touching down. CUT TO:

EXT/ INT AMSTERDAM HIGHWAY - TAXI CAB - MORNING

Hazel, Gus, and Frannie ride in the back of a YELLOW CAB.

Hazel and Gus share a look.

Meanwhile, the landscape outside is flat and dusty, with dirt

tracks and the occasional concrete building. In other words,

it looks more like Indianapolis than Holland.

Soon enough, the cab takes an off-ramp and turns a corner and

suddenly, it's as if they're transported - not only to

another universe but to another time as well.

We see MULTI-COLORED ROW HOUSES lined on both sides of a

windy CANAL. HOUSEBOATS float against the edges and everyone

rides BICYCLES down cobblestone streets. They're astounded.

INT HOTEL - LATER

Gus helps Hazel and Frannie bring their stuff into the room.

We see a WICKER BASKET of gifts - presents from the Genies -

welcoming their arrival. Hazel, exhausted, sits on the bed.

Hazel nods, already drifting off to sleep. CUT TO:

INT HOTEL ROOM - HOURS LATER

Some time later. Hazel stirs. Her Mom is seated in a sagging,

paisley CHAIR across from the bed reading a TRAVEL GUIDE.

Hazel shoots Frannie a look. Even in an exotic city, her Mom

still can't enjoy herself.

Hazel just shakes her head. CUT TO:

INT HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Frannie opens the door to find Gus in a perfectly tailored

BLACK SUIT, cigarette dangling from his mouth.

A few beats later Hazel emerges from the bathroom. She wears

a knee-length, pale blue SUNDRESS. And she looks...

Gus offers Hazel his arm. She takes it. They're ready to go.

INT/EXT AMSTERDAM - ON THE TRAM - LATER

Hazel and Gus ride the crowded tram through the city. ELM

TREES line the canals, their pale petals blowing into the

wind like a spring snowstorm.

An OLD COUPLE stands to give up their seats - this happens

all the time. Hazel again tries to protest and again it falls

on deaf ears. She and Gus sit. They look out the window onto

the city. Excited. The night just beginning.

EXT ORANJEE RESTAURANT - LATER

At the edge of the canal, near an ancient bridge. Hazel and

Gus are shown to a TABLE right next to the water.

Gus pulls out Hazel's chair for her. A WAITER brings them a

bottle of CHAMPAGNE as they sit.

Hazel and Gus look at each other. Is this a dream? The

champagne is poured and Gus raises his glass.

Hazel raises hers.

They clink glasses and sip.

Hazel and Gus smile.

Gus looks at Hazel. She shrugs.

The Waiter leaves. Hazel and Gus look at each other.

Hazel shakes her head, trying not to smile but unable not to.

The Waiter brings two more glasses of champagne and a plate:

Hazel takes a bite.

Gus takes a bite.

Meanwhile, down on the water a BOAT passes, filled with

merry, drinking LOCALS. One of them raises a glass to them

and says something in Dutch.

Hazel and Gus smile. This night could not be going any better

so far. CUT TO:

LATER. Hazel and Gus enjoying their second courses.

Hazel leans back in her chair, in need of a breather.

Gus winks. CUT TO:

LATER. Dessert on the table. As they euphorically eat:

Hazel is surprised.

Hazel thinks about it. She appreciates his conviction but is

still not sure she agrees. The hand they've been dealt too

unfair. Hazel looks out at the water as she says:

That gets her attention.

At which point, the Waiter reappears.

Hazel is still too speechless to respond, her eyes fixed on

Gus. Eventually Gus answers for them.

Gus raises his eyebrows at Hazel. This Van Houten guy is

something else.

EXT AMSTERDAM CANALS - LATER

Hazel and Gus on a park bench, his arm around her, looking

out over the water. Seeds blow from the elm trees and the

reflections of the city ripple in the water below them.

Hazel leans into his body, just a little. They stay like

that, savoring the best night of both of their lives. CUT TO:

EXT AMSTERDAM - HOTEL - ESTABLISHING

A crisp Spring morning in Amsterdam. The buzz in the air

outside is equalled by the buzz in:

INT HOTEL ROOM - SAME

Where Hazel excitedly paces through the room.

Hazel wears a screen print t-shirt of Magritte's "Ceci N'est

Pas Une Pipe." (A painting of a pipe with words below that

mean "This is not a pipe.")

Frannie is still at a loss but she's impressed.

A knock on the door. Gus pokes his head in.

EXT. VONDELSTRAAT ROW HOUSES - LATER

Gus and Hazel stand outside Van Houten's white house.

She playfully hits him. He takes her arm, picks up the oxygen

tank, and up they go towards his front door.

As they approach, there's a noticeable NOISE coming from

inside the house. It's the deep thump of a BASS BEAT. Loud.

Like, obnoxiously loud.

Hazel grabs the brass ornament and knocks. They wait. There's

no response.

Gus tries again, this time with more force. Still nothing. He

tries a third time. Finally, the music stops. They wait.

Still excited.

A moment later the door swings open.

It's a MAN IN PAJAMAS (60s), with a huge potbelly, thinning

hair, and a week-old beard. All he says is:

Gus and Hazel look to one another. Could it be?

At which point, the Pajama Man slams the door in their faces.

Hazel and Gus are too stunned to react. Through the closed

door, they hear this:

So it is PETER VAN HOUTEN. Gus and Hazel can't believe it.

Gus and Hazel smile at hearing their names. Perhaps this will

help things take a turn for the better.

Hazel and Gus can't believe it. This is terrible!

At which point, the door opens - opened by the Woman whose

voice they'd been hearing - Van Houten's assistant LIDEWIJ

(30s, Dutch, pretty in a bookish way). She virtually shoves

Van Houten towards a stunned Gus and Hazel.

And they are again face-to-face with Van Houten. One beat,

two beats. No one knows what to say. Finally:

Gus raises his hand tentatively.

Van Houten sizes them up. Without another word, he turns and

walks inside - at least this time, leaving the door ajar.

Hazel and Gus share one more awkward glance before Gus takes

a step. Hazel follows. They walk:

INT VAN HOUTEN'S HOME - SAME

Lidewij leads Gus and Hazel into a living room so sterile

it's creepy. The walls are empty and white, there's a single

couch, a small ottoman, and a single lounge chair. That's it.

Van Houten sits in the chair.

Off to the side are two large black garbage bags, full and

twist-tied.

Van Houten kicks his feet up on the ottoman and crosses his

slippers. He motions for them to sit on the couch.

Hazel and Gus take their seats.

Nevertheless, Lidewij pours Peter half a glass and hands it

to him. He takes a sip, then sits up straight.

Van Houten says nothing. Takes a long pull on his drink.

Van Houten says nothing to that.

He glances over at Lidewij, who dutifully refills his glass.

Hazel looks at Gus. Is he kidding?

Lidewij sighs but she does as she's told. A few seconds

later, some loud Swedish rap song blasts from the speakers.

Hazel and Gus sit through this, totally baffled.

The song continues another awkward ten seconds or so before

Gus has enough. He gets up and turns off the music.

Hazel is really getting worried at this point. They came all

this way for this?

Hazel and Gus fidget in their seats. Lidewij frowns, clearly

feeling bad for them. Van Houten continues.

Hazel and Gus have no idea how to respond.

Gus could throw a punch right now. Hazel tries to calm the

situation.

This is not what Hazel came all this way to hear. She won't

accept it.

Lidewij has tears in her eyes. Gus has balled his fists. But

not Hazel. Van Houten's words have not phased her one bit.

She rises from the couch.

Van Houten goes to take a drink but...

... Hazel smacks it right the fuck out of his hands,

surprising everyone.

After a beat:

No one moves. Van Houten realizes he's alone in this.

Hazel is furious. Gus stands next to her, touches her arm is

if to say "come on, enough of this guy." CUT TO:

EXT VAN HOUTEN'S HOUSE - SAME

Gus and Hazel come out of the house, practically shaking. As

they get to the street, Van Houten has one more thing to say.

A beat.

Van Houten doesn't have a response to that. He just shuts the

door. And when he does, that's when Hazel gets emotional.

Hazel nods, then wipes away tears. She fakes a smile and Gus

gives her a hug. Afterwards:

They embrace once more.

This gets a real smile from Hazel. That's when Lidewij comes

outside. Clearly she's been crying too.

Hazel says nothing. Gus holds her in a very protective way.

EXT ANNE FRANK HOUSE - LATER

Lidewij walks back from the ticket kiosk with more bad news.

Hazel is not going to stand for any more disappointments

today. They are going inside. CUT TO:

INT ANNE FRANK HOUSE - GROUND FLOOR - MOMENTS LATER

A VIDEO plays on a MONITOR showing the Nazi invasion of

Holland. Hazel and Gus stand with Lidewij in a pack of

BACKPACKERS and TRAVELERS about to take the tour. Many of

them begin to walk up the first flight of stairs.

Hazel nods. Both Hazel and Gus walk slowly up the stairs. So

far so good. They find themselves in an office space.

The BOOKCASE is half open. Behind it is an even steeper set

of stairs, only wide enough for one person at a time.

Some of the Travelers begin to walk up the stairs. Gus looks

at Hazel - are you sure we should continue? She begins the

climb, determined. Lidewij trails behind, carrying her oxygen

tank.

Hazel moves very slowly. We are aware of her labored

breathing the entire time.

ANGLE ON OTHER TOURISTS, watching and quietly commenting.

Just like at the airport, except now in foreign languages.

Hazel arrives on the NEXT FLOOR - an empty room. She's

definitely starting to struggle. She leans against the wall

to catch her breath. Gus comes to her side, wipes her brow.

Hazel smiles. When she's feeling up to it they walk into the

next room, also empty. And another staircase, even more

narrow and steep - practically a ladder. When Gus sees this

he looks at Hazel:

Hazel very slowly begins the climb. Again we're aware of her

every breath. It's dark. And it's becoming very difficult.

Near the top Hazel stumbles but is finally able to pull

herself through.

Once there, she falls to the floor, slumping against the

wall, trying to catch her breath. Gus crouches next to her.

Hazel becomes aware that TOURISTS look at her with concern.

She smiles, stands up, nothing to see here.

And now they're in the final room - a long, narrow hallway.

This is where Anne Frank and 7 other people lived in hiding

for as long as they could. There's a TIME LINE detailing

their story.

Gus takes Hazel's hand.

Lidewij stays behind to study part of the exhibit. Gus leads

Hazel into the room at the end of the hallway where a VIDEO

details the last days of Anne Frank's life. Over it, we hear

a YOUNG GIRL's VOICE reading from the diary.

The Travelers stand to watch and listen. Gus and Hazel do the

same. The room is dark.

Gus and Hazel stand very closely together. The video is the

cherry on top of a very emotional day. Hazel watches it.

Gus, meanwhile, is just watching Hazel, the same way she

watched him on the airplane. After a beat, she catches him.

Their eyes meet. The emotions build...

And Hazel KISSES Gus. A most passionate, intense, you-and-me-

against-the-world kind of kiss, better than any they've

experienced or could even imagine. It seems to last for a

small eternity.

Eventually, they break away and open their eyes. They quickly

notice all the Travelers staring at them. For a brief second,

they wonder if that was a very inappropriate thing to do...

When suddenly everyone starts clapping for them, moved by the

whole thing. One EUROPEAN even shouts "bravo!" Hazel blushes,

Gus smiles, bows, he grabs her hand. CUT TO:

INT GUS'S HOTEL ROOM - LATER

They fall onto Gus's bed, kissing. Hazel is very in the

moment and now it's Gus who seems nervous. As they kiss:

She ignores him, more kissing. She takes off his shirt.

Hazel pulls away from him.

Hazel kisses him again. Now he tries to pull her shirt off

but it gets tangled in with her oxygen tube. He can't figure

it out. Eventually the whole thing is hilarious to them. They

shake their heads - laughing - certainly not your typical

Hollywood movie moment. And yet, for them:

They resume kissing. And we CUT TO:

INT HOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Gus wakes up in the bed. He looks around for Hazel but she

isn't there. On the bed is a piece of paper. A note.

It reads: "Dearest Augustus..."

Beneath that is a BIG CIRCLE, labeled "Virgins." And in that

circle is a SMALLER SECOND CIRCLE labeled "17 year old dudes

with one leg." We'll notice part of that circle is now

outside the bigger circle. Gus flashes that signature smile.

EXT CAFE - DAY

Hazel and Gus sit with Frannie drinking coffee in the sun at

an outdoor cafe. They're re-enacting yesterday's events.

They both giggle at the whole thing.

A quick glance between Hazel and Gus.

Hazel and Gus smile, thoroughly in love but trying to keep it

in check in front of her Mother.

A few beats later.

As she stands up to leave, Hazel thinks she catches Gus and

Frannie making eye contact for a brief second. Once Frannie

has left them:

Gus doesn't respond except to say:

EXT AMSTERDAM STREET - LATER

They start to walk. Gus takes a cigarette out of his pack,

sticks it between his lips. Hazel notices he's struggling

with something.

They walk in silence a few beats.

Hazel grabs onto his arm, a lump already forming.

Gus takes the cigarette out of his mouth, clenches his teeth

tightly, trying not to cry.

Gus sits down on a BENCH. Looks up at her. Tries to smile.

Before he even says it, she knows.

Hazel loses it in that moment, falling on top of him, hugging

him for dear life, her head in his lap.

A beat. Gus still trying not to cry.

And at that point, Gus lets it go, lets himself cry and be

sad and feel awful.

But just for a second. Then he shakes it off, pulls Hazel's

face up to his, tries again to smile through the tears.

She hugs him, perhaps a little too tightly. He winces.

But of course it's not ok. Not by a mile.

Hazel takes a moment to look at him, touches his cheek.

He grabs her hand and holds it.

Gus nods. Squeezes her hand.

Hazel doesn't answer. She just kisses him, hard. And on the

two of them, so in love, we CUT TO:

INT AIRPLANE - LATER

Hazel lays on Gus's shoulder as he stares out the window,

leaving Amsterdam behind.

INT INDIANAPOLIS AIRPORT - BAGGAGE CLAIM - DAY

As they ride down the escalator, Hazel sees Michael standing

amongst the livery drivers. He holds a sign that says -

instead of someone's last name - "My Beautiful Family (and

Gus)."

Upon seeing them, he immediately starts to cry of course. He

kisses his wife, gives Hazel a big hug. Gus goes to shake his

hand but Michael hugs him as well. CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S LIVING ROOM - THAT NIGHT

Hazel sits with her father on the couch.

They sit for a beat. Tears form in Michael's eyes.

Michael shakes his head.

Hazel understands exactly. CUT TO:

INT GUS'S BASEMENT BEDROOM - DAY

Gus lays in bed, eyes open, a PICC line now being fed through

a port in his chest. Chemotherapy at work.

Hazel and Isaac are keeping him company.

Isaac nods. Tries not to get emotional but it's happening. He

goes to touch Gus's arm and accidentally touches his thigh.

Isaac laughs.

Hazel is confused.

Gus looks at her, grows a little serious.

They hold holds.

Hazel play slaps Isaac on the arm.

He shakes his head. Gus gets an angry look on his face.

Isaac gestures to his chest. Hazel is confused.

They turn to him.

No one knows what that means. CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S CAR - LATER

Gus is in the passenger's seat. Isaac sits in the back. Hazel

returns to the car. With a CARTON OF EGGS.

Gus smiles. CUT TO:

EXT SUBURBAN STREET - MOMENTS LATER

Hazel, Gus, and Isaac lean against Hazel's car staring

something down.

REVEAL they're looking at Monica's green Firebird.

Hazel nods, opens the egg carton, hands Gus an egg. Gus puts

it in Isaac's hands. Positions Isaac - who, of course, can't

see a thing - towards the Firebird.

Isaac winds up and tosses the EGG.

It misses the car by a mile. After a beat:

Isaac turns his shoulders.

Isaac turns some more.

Gus hands him a SECOND EGG. Isaac winds up and hurls it -

missing the car again but hitting the HOUSE.

Isaac hurls it, this time smashing the car's taillight.

Isaac's face lights up.

Isaac grabs for ANOTHER EGG. Throws it. Then ANOTHER. He's a

throwing machine. Most of them miss but at least he's

enjoying himself. Finally there's a DIRECT HIT on the car

door, triggering the alarm. Isaac pauses.

Isaac does. Gus smiles, putting an unlit cigarette in his

mouth. Hazel watches him, enjoying this moment.

Eventually, MONICA'S MOM opens the front door and comes out.

Seeing Hazel, Gus, and Isaac, she stops in her tracks.

Monica's Mom is very confused. A beat. Without another word,

she turns and goes back inside. The three of them celebrate.

As Isaac picks up where he left off, Hazel gently kisses Gus

on the cheek. And over we hear:

INT HOSPITAL - WAITING ROOM - DAY

Hazel bounds in to find Mrs. Waters in the waiting room. She

stands to hug Hazel. They both sit down.

Mrs. Waters starts to cry.

They both know what that means. Mrs. Waters gathers herself.

Hazel nods. She understands.

Mrs. Waters nods, hugs her again, walks out through the heavy

doors towards Gus's room. Hazel sits in the chair. Same chair

Gus sat in while waiting for her. They've switched places.

EXT INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART - DAY

Hazel pushes Gus, now confined to a WHEELCHAIR, to their spot

on the hill overlooking "Funky Bones." A second picnic, this

time with champagne. Hazel pours some for them both into

little Winnie the Pooh cups. She's trying to be upbeat - but

it's difficult. Gus watches the kids play on the bones.

Hazel, annoyed finishes her cup, tosses it to the side. Gus

can tell he's said something wrong.

Hazel stands up, anger building.

Gus hands Hazel another Winnie the Pooh cup. Raises his to

hers in a toast.

She softens. They toast.

Gus nods. Of course it isn't. And yet they both know there

isn't much time. CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - ANOTHER NIGHT

Hazel is asleep. Suddenly, her phone buzzes. She looks at it -

"Gus" - then she looks at the clock - 2:35am. A pit grows in

her stomach. A quick panicked beat before she answers:

INT/ EXT HAZEL'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Hazel drives like a maniac down the street, eventually

finding herself at the Speedway gas station.

Gus's car is alone in the parking lot and she pulls up next

to it. She gets out of her car, opens his driver's side door,

and finds him sitting there, his shirt stained with vomit and

blood. She gags from the smell.

Hazel looks down at his hands which are pressed tightly to

his belly. She sees something is leaking from the TUBE

sticking out of it.

Gus starts to cry.

Hazel lifts up his shirt. His ABDOMEN is bright red.

Hazel feels his forehead, he's burning up.

Gus throws up. He doesn't even have the energy to turn his

mouth away from his lap.

Hazel doesn't know what to do.

But she must. She gets out her cell phone and dials. At which

point, Gus really loses it, weeping like the poisoned, dying

teenage boy that he is. As Hazel dials, we hear:

LATER. An EMT loads Gus into the back of an AMBULANCE. Hazel

is allowed to ride with him in the back. As the car starts

moving, Gus grabs her hand.

That is it. But there's another ten minutes of driving to do.

Hazel thinks fast.

Gus smiles, weakly, barely conscious. Hazel cradles his head

in her arms. And continues...

As Gus is drifting off to sleep, WE HEAR:

EXT GUS'S HOUSE - ANOTHER DAY

Gus comes home from the hospital. He does not look good - but

he lives. Hazel is there to help get him inside.

INT GUS'S HOUSE - ANOTHER DAY

Gus no longer sleeps in his basement. Nor does he sleep in

his own bed. He sleeps in a HOSPITAL BED set up in a guest

room. Hazel is with him. They're watching sports on TV.

EXT GUS'S BACKYARD PORCH - ANOTHER DAY

Hazel and Gus getting some fresh air. She sits there reading

a book. Gus just sits there. His eyes staring off into

nothing. Hazel waves to him. Gus looks over, as if waking

from a dream. She manages a smile. He manages one back.

INT HAZEL'S DINING ROOM - ANOTHER DAY

Hazel sits at dinner with her parents. She is barely touching

her food.

The phone buzzes and Hazel answers it.

His voice is strong today, and Hazel is happy to hear it.

The call ends. Hazel, confused, stands to go.

Hazel tries to push past her but Frannie grabs her shoulders.

Upon seeing her mother's face change, Hazel immediately

regrets this.

Frannie has tears in her eyes. Hazel looks away, feeling

terrible.

Frannie sits down on the couch with her daughter.

Michael sits across from them.

By now Michael is crying too. They all are.

She takes that in. It rings true to her. Hazel nods.

Hazel is confused. Frannie looks at Michael like, "should I

say something?" She goes for it.

Hazel is stunned.

Frannie and Michael don't quite know what to say.

Hazel grabs her Mom for a hug.

Mom and Daughter hug. And when it's over:

INT CHURCH - LATER

Hazel enters the Literal Heart of Jesus room which is now

empty except for Isaac, up on a dais, and Gus, in his

wheelchair. Gus is thinner than we've ever seen him, thinner

than any young man should be. But for now, he's happy.

Gus gestures for her to sit next to him and she does.

Hazel looks at him like "of course, silly" and then kisses

him on the mouth.

He smiles and for a brief moment it's old Gus. Hazel laughs.

Isaac clears his throat.

Gus nods - that part is true.

Hazel smiles - but it's one that triggers an immediate

emotional waterfall.

Gus has a big smile on his face.

Gus nods a couple times.

This causes Isaac to lose it. He clings to the lectern.

Isaac sighs. Wipes away the tears. And another beat passes.

Hazel remembers Isaac can't see. She rises, goes up to get

him, walks him back to her seat.

Hazel takes out a piece of paper, walks up to the dais. Takes

a beat to ready herself.

And that's all she can get out before falling apart. She lets

it out for a couple beats and then pulls herself together.

Gus smiles, nods, and closes his eyes. CUT TO:

Over which we hear a RINGING TELEPHONE.

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Hazel turns on the LIGHT by her bed. Her HOUSE PHONE is

ringing and it's 4am.

She knows instantly.

Hazel's head falls into her chest.

Her bedroom door opens. It's Frannie and Michael. This only

confirms her worst fears. She starts to cry. Her parents

embrace her in the bed.

EXT HAZEL'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - SAME

Hazel sits in the car in the dark. She's blaring the loudest

music she can possibly blare - a means of drowning out the

horrors of the world. Over which we hear this:

The loud music isn't protecting Hazel as well as she hoped.

She falls apart nonetheless.

INT HAZEL'S BEDROOM - ANOTHER MORNING

Hazel puts on her funeral dress. She looks in the mirror.

INT CHURCH - DAY

The place is filled today with mourners for Augustus Waters.

Hazel comes in with her parents and stands in the back,

watching people she's never seen before approach the Waters

family and extend their deepest condolences.

When Mr. and Mrs. Waters see Hazel, they open their arms.

Hazel nods. Hugs them back.

More MOURNERS approach the family, leaving Hazel stranded in

the receiving line. Her eyes turn towards the COFFIN. She's

not entirely sure she wants to go there but she takes a deep

breath, wills herself to walk towards it.

Gus is there in the same suit he wore to Oranjee.

Immediately, Hazel breaks down. And immediately, she catches

herself.

She leans forward and kisses his cheek. She looks around.

Once in the clear, she pulls out a hard pack of Camel Lights

and sticks them in the space between Gus and the lining of

the coffin. A MINISTER approaches at that moment.

Hazel nods and walks back to her parents, taking her seat in

the middle of the room.

Hazel frowns. This is all such bullshit. And she hears:

Hazel recognizes that voice. But it doesn't make sense. She

turns around and, sure enough, it's Peter Van Houten.

Everyone clasps their hands, closes their eyes. Hazel keeps

staring at Van Houten, too shocked to do a thing.

Van Houten bows his head. Hazel, still stunned, slowly turns

back to the Minister, trying to make sense of this unexpected

appearance.

Isaac stands, walks up to the podium with someone's help.

Hazel sneaks one more look at Van Houten. Yup, it's really

him. That makes no sense to her. Isaac starts to speak.

And Isaac stops talking. It's unclear if that was the end or

if he just can't go on. He returns to his seat. The Minister

walks back up.

Hazel stands, walks up to the podium. A few titters in the

room at the words "special friend."

Some laughter from the crowd. She takes out her notes.

Hazel continues to speak but we over it, WE HEAR instead:

Gus's Parents, arm in arm, nod along with every word. CUT TO:

EXT CEMETARY - DAY

Everyone is watching Gus's body be lowered into the ground.

Everyone but Hazel. She looks off into the distance.

Off to the side, we see Van Houten, also not watching the

burial. He's watching Hazel. CUT TO:

LATER. Ceremony over, we see Hazel with her parents.

Hazel hugs Mom and Dad, walks alone towards the parking lot.

As she gets to the car, Van Houten approaches.

Hazel doesn't want to help this man.

Hazel exhales. Fine. Once they're both in the car:

Van Houten removes a FLASK from his coat pocket. Takes a

swig. Hazel shakes her head in disgust. Starts driving.

Hazel ignores him.

Hazel starts to understand Van Houten - and softens.

Hazel takes that in.

Van Houten takes out a typed piece of paper. He hands it to

Hazel who grabs it - and immediately crumples it into a ball.

Hazel throws the piece of paper at Van Houten.

Van Houten knows he's too late. He does as he's told,

stepping out of the car onto the side of the road. He stands

there as Hazel peels out.

In the rearview mirror, she sees him raise the FLASK, as if

toasting her. She blinks away some tears and drives. CUT TO:

INT HAZEL'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Hazel lies in front of the TV. "Top Model" is playing but

she's lost in her own world. Tears fall from her eyes and she

can't do anything to stop it. Hazel gets up.

INT BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Hazel sits against the tub on the floor and weeps. Soon

there's a knock.

Hazel leans over and unlocks the door. Michael kneels down

next to her, putting her head on his shoulder.

Hazel presses her face into his shirt and cries some more.

Michael squeezes her tightly. And this time, he doesn't cry.

Hazel nods into his shirt. Then looks up at her Dad.

Michael smiles at Hazel. And he doesn't cry. Hazel draws

strength from him.

EXT ISAAC'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Hazel and Isaac have climbed through his open bedroom window.

They sit on the roof.

They sit there in silence a few beats.

Hazel sits up. Her heart is racing.

As quickly as possible Hazel leaves. Isaac stays behind,

enjoying the cool night. A new day is coming.

INT/ EXT HAZEL'S CAR - DAY

Hazel is inside the car, rummaging crazily through the trash

in an effort to find what Van Houten gave her. She's about to

give up when she sees it - crumpled up into a ball beneath

the passenger's seat. She reaches under, pulls it up, and

unwraps it. As she reads, WE HEAR:

Hazel is overcome with emotion.

She smiles to herself, remembering:

- That first time Gus and Hazel ran into each other.

- The staring contest in Support Group.

- Driving (badly) in Gus's car.

- Their first kiss at the picnic by "Funky Bones."

- And BACK TO HAZEL reading the letter, tears in her eyes.

INT ICU - FLASHBACK

Gus stealthily sneaks into Hazel's single room in the ICU.

She sleeps. He kneels by her side.

Gus takes her hand and holds it.

- AND BACK TO HAZEL reading the letter. She never knew that

story, never knew he was there. CUT TO:

EXT HAZEL'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - LATER

Hazel walks out to the grass behind her house, the oxygen

tank dragging behind her. She lays down on the grass and

looks up at the stars - the same IMAGE that opened the movie.

- The magical dinner at Oranjee.

- The bench in which they sat overlooking the water.

- The passionate kiss in Anne Frank's house.

- Falling onto the bed together.

[All of these are images we saw at the beginning of the

movie, only now, we SEE the oxygen tank, we SEE Gus's leg, we

SEE the fumbling and the difficulties etc. They don't make

these images less beautiful. They make them twice as

beautiful - because they're real.]

- AND BACK ON Hazel in the grass. She holds the letter to her

chest. A single tear falls onto her cheeks.

Hazel CLOSES HER EYES.

A beat. Another.

Hazel OPENS HER EYES. And she says to the universe:

