SHOT - HELICOPTER'S POV -

Moving through clouds.  The clouds separate and, far below, we can

see a giant outdoor amphitheatre.  There is no SOUND but the WIND.

As we move closer to the amphitheatre, we can hear SNATCHES OF WORDS

and PHRASES as though from a public address system.

in cap and gown, standing in front of a microphone.  The WIND is

BLOWING.  He has to hold on to the papers from which he is reading.

Thousands of expressionless STUDENTS are sitting there.

staring at him impassively.

of impassive students, seated, watching; of Ben standing

alone on the huge amphitheatre stage; of CLOSEUPS of Ben

speaking; of loudspeakers; of wind-blown papers on the

podium.

He stops, trying to think of the word.

He begins to sweat.

watching.

Ben's hands searching through the pages of his speech.

The pages begin to blow away in the wind.

staring.

He is in a panic.  He looks up from his papers at the audience.

The audience is gone.

SOUND of the WIND becoming the ROAR of an AIRCRAFT coming at

us through the air.

Huge and empty.  SOUND of AIRCRAFT.

SOUND of a SONIC BOOM.

His eyes open suddenly.

PULL BACK SLOWLY from a CLOSEUP of a television screen with

snow on it to reveal a long row of television sets along the

ceiling of the aircraft.  There is snow on all of them.

PULL BACK from the CLOSEUP of Ben to reveal a row of passengers

staring straight ahead, their headsets on.  Ben turns and

looks out the window.

Los Angeles, at night, its lights stretching endlessly in every

direction.

SOUND - MUZAC and the STEWARDESS' LANDING SPEECH.

START OF MAIN TITLES

UNDER titles:

Ben and the other passengers on the automatic sidewalk.

His eyes are open and he is trying to remember something.

There are the SOUNDS of many people TALKING and LAUGHING

in other rooms.  A RADIO nearby PLAYS MUSIC.  After a

while, there is the SOUND of a DOOR OPENING.  The SOUNDS

of the people TALKING are lower.  MRS. TERHUNE'S voice

can be heard among them.

The SOUND of the DOOR CLOSING.  Mrs. Terhune's VOICE and

the VOICES of the other guests FADE DOWN.  Mrs. Terhune's

VOICE can be HEARD with varying clarity through the

remainder of the sequence.

After a few moments, there is the SOUND of a LIGHT SWITCH

being SNAPPED and light, as though from an overhead fixture,

falls across BEN's face.  He does not move.

After a few moments, there is the SOUND of the RADIO being

SNAPPED OFF.

Ben's mouth opens a little bit and closes again.

Ben has not moved.  Now the bed on which he is lying moves

as though someone has sat down upon it next to him.

The CAMERA BEGINS TO PULL BACK SLOWLY.

As Ben says this, the door to the bedroom opens and

MRS. BRADDOCK looks in.

Mr. Braddock gets off the bed and goes to a chair and

picks up Ben's jacket which is lying across it.

Mr. Braddock puts the jacket on Ben.

They move out of the door, Mr. Braddock steering Ben.

PHIL and MIMI CARLSON are coming up the stairs as the

Braddocks are moving down.

Mrs. Carlson gives Ben a broad wink.  Ben tries to smile

and return the wink politely.

They reach the hall at the bottom of the stairs.

Ben moves to the front door and opens it.  MR. LOOMIS

steps into the house and grabs Ben's hand.

Mr. Loomis closes the door and pushes Ben back down the

hall.

Mr. Loomis turns and goes into the dining room.  Ben

moves back to the stairway as THREE LADIES come out of

the living room.  One lady takes Ben's right hand, another

lady his left, the third fingers the front of his jacket.

MR. MCQUIRE appears behind Ben.

Mr. McQuire takes Ben's arm and steers him down the hall

toward the back of the house and out through the back door.

The pool is eerily lit.  There are FOUR PEOPLE standing and

TALKING, drinks in their hands, at the back of the yard.

They look at each other for a moment.

Mr. McQuire turns and walks back into the house.  The

people at the other end of the yard look toward Ben.

Ben goes into the house through the back door.

We can see through the windows of the house, Ben making his

way through people trying to stop him and speak to him as he

goes through rooms, up the stairs and to his room.

SOUND of a door SLAMMING.

Ben stands with his back against the door.  The SOUNDS of the

PARTY downstairs and, as Ben walks across the room to a

window, the SOUND of the WIND.

Over Ben to pool area and people below.  SOUND of the door

OPENING.  Ben turns.  MRS. ROBINSON enters the room.

They stand for a moment, loocking at each other.

Mrs. Robinson moves into the room and sits on the edge

of the bed.

Mrs. Robinson takes a cigarette from her purse and

lights it.

She blows out the match and puts it down carefully on

the bedspread.  Ben picks up a wastebasket, walks over

to the bed, picks up the match and puts it in the

wastebasket.

There is a long pause.

Ben reaches into his pocket and hands Mrs. Robinson

a set of car keys.

Mrs. Robinson looks at him.

Mrs. Robinson shakes her head.

She throws the keys to him.  He catches them.

SHOOTING THROUGH THE OPEN FRONT DOOR.  Mr. Braddock is

talking to the Terhunes at the door.  Ben and Mrs.

Robinson come down the hall.

Mr. Braddock pats Ben on the shoulder.  Mrs. Robinson

is walking ahead through the front door.

The car comes to a stop in the Robinson driveway.  They sit

for a moment.

She doesn't move.  Ben gets out and goes around to her side

and opens the door.

They move to the door.  She takes out her key and opens

the door.

Ben turns and walks down the hall.  They enter sunroom.

She nods.

He looks at her.

She pours herself a drink.

She hands him a drink.  There is a pause.

She turns on the phonograph.  SOUND of PHONOGRAPH.

Ben looks at her.

They look at each other.  Ben is half standing.

She takes a step toward him.  He puts his hand up and

retreats around the other side of the chair.

There is a pause.  She looks at him.

We move with Mrs. Robinson and Ben out of the sunroom,

into the hall, up the stairs and along the hall to

the doorway to Elaine's room.

Ben moves into the room and looks up at the portrait.

In the b.g. Mrs. Robinson watches him.

He steps back.

She turns her back.

Ben reaches forward and pulls the zipper down.

Ben walks toward the door.

Mrs. Robinson lets her dress fall to the floor.

He looks up at the portrait of Elaine.

Benjamin walks out of the door and down the hall.  The

CAMERA PUSHES with him to the door.  We see the entire

stairway and part of the downstairs hall.  Ben gets to

the stairs and starts down.

Mrs. Robinson walks into the hall.  Her back is to us.

She is holding her dress in front of her.

She walks out of the shot.

Ben starts back up the stairs.

Ben appears as he slowly climbs the stairs.

Ben gets to the top of the stairs, and starts slowly

down the hall.

Ben walks quickly into Elaine's room, crosses to the

bed and puts the purse down.  As he starts to turn

back, he looks up at Elaine's portrait.  There is a

movement reflected in the glass of the portrait.  He

turns quickly.  Mrs. Robinson, naked, is shutting the

door to the bedroom behind her.

She smiles.

She turns the lock on the door.

There is the SOUND of a CAR in the driveway outside.

Ben leaps at the door, pushes Mrs. Robinson aside,

struggles with the door, gets the door open, runs into

the hall and down the stairs.

Ben rushes into the sunroom and sits down.  SOUND of

FOOTSTEPS on the driveway outside.  Ben jumps up, gets

the glass he had been drinking from and sits down again.

SOUND of the front door OPENING and CLOSING.

FOOTSTEPS approach the sunroom.  MR. ROBINSON enters.

Mr. Robinson reaches for Ben's glass.

Mr. Robinson takes the glass from him.

Mr. Robinson turns his back to Ben to mix the drinks.

Ben takes several deep breaths, straightens his tie

and checks to see if his fly is okay.  Mr. Robinson

turns and brings him the drink.

Ben shakes his head.

Ben nods.

Mrs. Robinson enters the room.  She is now wearing the

dress she wore earlier.  Ben starts to get up.

Ben sits.

Mrs. Robinson nods.

He stands.  Mr. Robinson stands up with him.

They start out of the sunroom.

Mr. Robinson opens the front door and Ben goes out.

SHOOTING OVER THE CAR toward the house.  Ben comes toward

the car.  Mrs. Robinson appears in the doorway; the light

behind her makes it difficult to see her face.

Ben nods.

Ben continues to walk toward us.

The sun shines brightly.  Standing and sitting around

the pool are Mr. and Mrs. Braddock, their friends MR.

and MRS. ARNOLD, and the Arnold children, PETER and

LOUISE, who are eight or nine.  Watching from across the

fence on one side of the house: the young girl from next

door and her boy friend.  Across the fence on the other

side of the house: a quartet of adults, formally dressed

as though for a cocktail party, holding drinks and watch-

ing.  One of them holds a baby.  The Braddocks, the

Arnolds and their children are dressed in California

Contemporary Sport Style: the adults in styles infinitely

too young for them, the children in styles infinitely too

old for them.

Mr. Braddock stands alone at the end of the pool near the

house.  The others are grouped, more or less, at the other

end.  Mr. Braddock is hamming it up.

Mr. Braddock has moved over by one of the windows of the

house, the window into the kitchen.  He speaks quickly -

in a fake sotto voce - towards the window.

But Mr. Braddock has already moved away from the window

and is readdressing his audience.

They all laugh and some applaud.

They laugh; Mrs. Arnold makes a face at Mr. Arnold as

he grinningly acknowledges the reponse to his snappy

comeback.

Mr. Braddock darts back to the window.

Mr. Braddock moves to the screen door and pushes it open.

It slams against the wall inside.

At the back of the hall, inside the house, stands Ben,

dressed in a full length skin diver's wet suit, flippers

on his feet, the oxygen tank strapped to his back, the

mask pushed up his forehead, the air hose dangling.

He holds a spear gun in his hand.

The people applaud.

SHOT - FROM BEN'S POV

The people in the backyard.  His father stands just

outside the screen door.

Ben's arms come into view and pull the mask down.

We are now looking through the mask as we MOVE FORWARD

down the hall.  Everything is slightly distorted through

the glass.  Ben's hand comes up again with the breathing

apparatus in it.

SOUND: the rythmic PUMPING of air, obliterating the

SOUND of the people around the pool who seem to be

applauding and chattering noiselessly.

We MOVE out of the door and toward the pool.  Mr. Braddock

is running back and forth, clapping his hands and

delivering his now soundless pitch.

We MOVE DOWN the steps and into the shallow end of the

pool.  Mr. Braddock is moving along the side of the pool,

motioning toward us to come down to the deep end.  He

joins Mr. Arnold at the far end of the pool.  They both

begin to motion us toward them.

We get to the deep end of the pool.  Mr. Braddock signals

us with his hand to go under.  He kneels down by the edge

of the pool and reaches out with his hand and pushes us

under.  He has a big smile.

We SURFACE again and PAN AROUND for a last look.  The

figures, through the slightly distorted glass of the mask

of Mrs. Arnold and Mrs. Braddock, watching and smiling;

the neighbors on each side of the house, looking over their

fences and laughing and pointing; Mr. Arnold nodding

encouragement and talking; Mr. Braddock on his knees,

smiling and trying to reach out far enough to push us

under.  We GO UNDER and SINK to the bottom of the pool.

OVERHEAD SHOT (HELICOPTER POV)

Looking down on the pool, on Ben's black suited body at

the bottom and the people standing around the pool, looking

down into it.

PULL UP AND UP AND UP

Until there are thirty houses below us, with its owners,

swimming, playing, eating, cooking, reading, dancing,

sunbathing, constructing and gardening around thirty pools.

SOUND of Ben's BREATHING APPARATUS, fading into the SOUND

of the WIND.

Hold for a few seconds, then:

SOUND of a dime DROPPING into a pay phone and DIALING.

In a phone booth.  The booth is in the entrance area of

the hotel between the lobby and the driveway.  Ben holds

the receiver to his ear.  SOUND of PHONE RINGING.

SOUND of her HANGING UP.  Ben hangs up slowly.

He stands up in the booth, looks around, moves about

uncomfortably for a few moments, removes his jacket and

carrying it folded across his arm in front of him,

leaves the phone booth and crosses to the doors that

lead to the main lobby.  As he is about to go in, the

doors open and a group of VERY OLD PEOPLE start coming

out, filling the doorway and moving very slowly, muttering

to each other and helping each other out of the door and

down the steps.  Ben holds one of the doors open for them

and stands politely to one side.  As they get through,

Ben starts to move inside.  At that moment, A DOZEN YOUNG

PEOPLE, dressed as though for a high school dance, push

him to one side and move past him into the lobby.  He

moves back against the other door, holding it open and

allowing them to go in first.  He smiles politely and they

pay no attention to him at all.  He follows them into the

lobby.  They move toward the front desk and he moves with

them.  One of the boys at the front of the group leans in

and says something to the CLERK behind the desk.

The clerk points across the lobby and says something to

him.  There are the SOUNDS of an orchestra PLAYING some-

where.  The group of young people passes by the desk

and Ben moves in behind them.  He pauses at the desk and

looks apprehensively at the hundreds of pigeon holes against

the wall with the room numbers painted under them and the

keys dangling suggestively.

He points vaguely in the direction of the other young

people.

Terror and disbelief start in Ben's eyes.  He looks

helplessly at the clerk.

Ben backs off and turns and starts across the lobby.

He puts on his jacket as he goes.  He gets to the entrance

to the main ballroom.  He pauses at the door, looks in.

What he sees:  People dancing, talking, sitting, etc.

He turns back toward te lobby.  He stops.

What he sees:  The room clerk scross the lobby watching

him.

Ben flashes a huge smile and points in toward the ballroom

as though to express his joy at finding the Singleman

affair inside, then turns back and enters the ballroom.

As Ben steps inside.

Ben turns.  Four people stand in a row.  Official greeters,

they are:  A MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN, AN OLDER MAN, AN ELDERLY

LADY AND A TWELVE-YEAR-OLD BOY, dressed formally and they

are smiling with great determination.

It is the older lady who has said hello.

She grasps Ben's hand and shakes it.

MISS DEWITTE, who, from the looks of things, always has

been and always will be, Miss DeWitte, takes Ben's hand.

Ben finds himself shaking the twelve-year-old boy's

hand.

Ben switches to Mr. Singleman's hand.

Mrs. Singleman looks at the seating list she has been

holding.

Ben is backing out.

Ben backs out of the ballroom.

Ben crosses the lobby, passing PEOPLE going in and out of

the hotel.  He stops at the entrance of the Veranda Room:

This is a large room with a bar and many tables along the

windows that look out over the hotel grounds.  It is quite

dark and cool inside and there are no more than a dozen

people seated around.

The CAMERA STAYS at the door as Ben walks into the room

and crosses to the far end where he sits down at the table

by the window.

PUSH IN toward Ben as he sits there.  MUZAK is playing.

sitting smoking.

sitting.

sitting drinking.

In the door to the lobby in the b.g. is Mrs. Robinson.

She pauses, looks into the room, sees Ben and starts

toward him.  Ben is looking out the window.  He does

not see her approach.

He rises quickly.

He pulls out a chair, for her.

They sit down.

Ben tries to smile then looks out the window, then down

at the center of the table.

Ben looks toward a passing WAITER and raises his hand.

The waiter pays no attention.  Ben looks back at Mrs.

Robinson apologetically.

For a moment, the noise in the room seems to recede.  The

waiter stops in his tracks, turns toward them.  The waiter

moves to their table.  The noise in the room comes back.

The waiter looks at Mrs. Robinson.

The waiter moves away.  Ben watches him go.

He shakes his head.

Ben walks out of the Veranda Room and into the lobby.

Ben walks to the front desk and stands there.

He pushes the card and a pen toward Ben.  Ben writes his

name on the card and then stares at it for a moment,

crumples it up and fills out a second card.

Ben reaches for the key.

He hands Ben the key.

Mrs. Robinson sits, patiently and calmly.  Her face betrays

absolutely nothing as she stares ahead of her and sips

her martini.

She looks up.  A waiter is standing next to the table

with a telephone.

The waiter plugs the phone into the wall socket next to

the table and hands her the receiver.

The waiter nods and leaves.

Mrs. Robinson turns in her chair and looks through the

glass into the lobby.

Ben is in the phone booth in the lobby no more than twenty

feet away.

Over Ben's shoulder, we can see his face reflected in the

glass door and, through it, Mrs. Robinson sitting in

the Veranda Room.

INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION

He hangs up.

He leaves the hpone booth and walks back into the main lobby.

As he passes the desk, on his way to the elevator, he starts

to pat his breast pocket.

The desk clerk looks up.

Ben walks out of shot.

Ben leaves elevator, walks down corridor to hotel room and

opens door.

Ben closes the door behind him and leans with his back against

it for a few moments looking at the room.  The only light

is that coming in the window.  Ben turns on the light switch

on the wall near the door.  The room blazes with the light

from three lamps and an overhead fixture.  He turns the switch

off.  He crosses to the bathroom.  Ben steps in and turns on

the light.

Ben steps out, moves to the window.  We see the pool area

through the window.  Ben closes the blinds.

opens it.  Mrs. Robinson moves to the bureau and puts her

purse and gloves on it.  She looks at herself in the

mirror for a moment then turns slowly, looking at the room,

finally ending on Ben's face.  She steps toward him.

He clears his throat and then he kisses her.

She takes off her jacket.

Ben opens the closet door.

He brings her a hanger.  She puts her jacket on it.

She turns her back.

He undoes the zipper at her neck.

She turns and looks at him.  He backs away.

LONG pause.

He slams the bathroom door shut.  The light in the room

disappears.

FADE IN

The midsummer sun beats down on the Braddock swimming pool

and on Ben who lies on a rubber raft in the middle of the

pool.  Ben wears dark glasses, is deeply tanned, and holds

a beer can in one hand.

SOUNDS:  teenagers YELLING and swimming in nearby pools;

a radio PLAYING rock and roll; a television set TUNED to

a ball game.

drifting.

drifting.

SOUND of the back door CLOSING.  Ben opens his eyes and

moves his head slightly.

Mr. Braddock is passionately stoking a barbeque fire.  Mrs.

Braddock is going toward him from the house, carrying some

ominously large thing wrapped in tinfoil.

He rolls off the raft and swims to the end of the pool.  He

climbs out, walks to the back door, takes his shirt from a

chair and starts to put it on as he opens the back door and

goes through.

Ben has just shut the door to the bathroom behind him.  He

is wearing his shirt, buttoned, and no trousers.

PAN WITH BEN as he walks across the room past Mrs. Robinson

who is standing in front of the bureau taking off her brace-

let and watch.  He moves to a chair and sits.

He picks up a cigarette from an ashtray on a table next

to the chair.  Mrs. Robinson moves in to Ben, kneels in

front of him and starts to unbutton his shirt.

He takes the cigarette out of his mouth.

SHOT - NEW ANGLE

We now see behind Ben the door that leads from the Braddock

den, in which Ben is sitting.  In the dining room, Mr.

and Mrs. Braddock are sitting, having their dinner, looking

through the doorways toward Ben.  Ben stands, crosses back

to the door to the den and shuts it.

On Ben's back as he returns to the chair and sits.  A

television set, facing the chair, is on.  Ben picks up a

can of beer and drinks from it.  An animated cartoon is

playing on the television set.  Ben watches it.

Ben's face, watching.  PUSH IN to CLOSEUP of his face.

CLOSEUP of television set and cartoon.

Ben watching.

CLOSEUP test pattern.

CLOSEUP Ben watching.  PULL BACK and we are in the Taft

Hotel Room.  Ben is sitting on the bed, leaning against

the headboard, watching the television set which is on a

stand facing the bed.

SOUND of the HUM of the test pattern.

PULL BACK to a WIDE SHOT of the room, lit only by the light

from the television set.  Mrs. Robinson walks into the shot,

half dressed.  She passes between Ben and the television

set and goes out of frame.  Ben continues to stare at the set.

SOUND of a ZIPPER being pulled up.

Mrs. Robinson appears again and passes the other way.

SOUND of BRACELETS being put on.

Mrs. Robinson passes back the other way again.

SOUND of CLOTHING being put on and a PURSE being snapped

closed.  Mrs. Robinson, now fully dressed and carrying

her purse, passes through again and, without looking at

Ben, goes to the door of the hotel room, opens it and

exits.

SOUND of DOOR closing.  Follow Ben as he gets up and moves

to the windows of what is now his BEDROOM in the Braddock

house.  He opens the closed blinds over the window.  The

sun is bright outside.  His bathing suit is on the window

sill.  He takes the suit and puts it on.  He moves to

the bedroom door, opens it and goes out.

We see Mrs. Braddock in the kitchen.  Ben comes through

the back door, moves to the pool and dives in.  The raft

floats in the center of the pool.

Ben swims toward us the length of the pool.

Ben surfaces and, in one movememt, pulls himself up on

the raft and -

- lands on top of Mrs. Robinson on the bed.  He stays

on top of her for a moment.

Ben turns toward us and looks.

SHOT - POV OF BEN ON RAFT

Mr. Braddock standing by the side of the pool.  The

sun is behind him.

Mrs. Braddock steps in beside Mr. Braddock.

Mr. Robinson steps in beside the others.  They blot out

the sun.

Mrs. Robinson steps in beside them.  (A long pause)

Ben, halfway dressed to go out, in slacks, shirt and tie,

sits in a chair.  The door opens and Mrs. Braddock enters.

There is a pause.

She nods.

She stops.

She looks at him.

She nods.

She shakes her head.

Mrs. Robinson's hands are undoing his necktie.  Ben is

dressed as in previous scene, plus a jacket.

Mrs. Robinson looks at him and raises her eyebrows.

Mrs. Robinson walks to the bed and sits.  She reaches

down to take off a shoe.

She straightens up.

She reaches for her shoe.

She shrugs.

Ben nods and looks at the rug.

Ben starts shaking his head.

Ben nods.

She shakes her head.

She nods.

She nods and takes off her blouse.

She nods.

She nods.

She nods.

Ben thinks for a moment.

There is a pause.

She walks to the bed.

She pulls the bedspread down.  Ben begins to remove his

jacket.

Mrs. Robinson uncovers one of the pillows.

Ben looks at her.

She pulls the covers down.

She nods.

He starts putting on his shirt.  She sits on the edge of

the bed and watches him.

He nods.

She shakes her head.

Mrs. Robinson walks to the closet.

There is a long pause.

There is another long pause.

At opposite sides of the room, without looking at each

other, they begin to take off their clothes.

FADE IN

Ben sits at the table, eating his breakfast and looking

at the back of a cereal box.  Mr. and Mrs. Braddock

are there.

Benjamin looks at his father for a moment, then continues

eating and reading.

Ben is lying on his bed.  Mrs. Braddock stands in the

doorway.

Ben gives a small whimper.

Ben is lying face down on his raft in the middle of the

Braddock pool.  The sun shines down.  His diving mask

is on over his eyes.  His face is in the water, looking

down at the bottom of the pool.  Mr. and Mrs. Braddock,

in their bathing suits, are in the pool, paddling around

Ben.  During the entire conversation they continue to

swim around and around the raft, trying to talk and keep

their heads above the surface.

He slides off the raft and goes underwater.

His hair streaming up, his eyes open.

The dining room is one tenth its normal size.  At a

table for two are seated, jammed in against each other,

the three Robinsons and the three Braddocks.  Elaine's

back is to us.  Ben is at the other end of the table,

facing us.  The Robinsons and Braddocks sit along

the sides.  Mrs. Robinson is next to Ben, everyone is

eating, looking down at their places.  After a few moments

Ben throws his head back ans starts to scream.  As he

continues to scream, everyone looks at him except Mrs.

Robinson who continues to eat calmly without looking up.

Ben surfaces and pulls himself up on the side of the

pool.

Mr. and Mrs. Braddock cling exhausted to the raft and

try to smile at each other.

SOUND:  Ding dong of the Robinson door chimes.

The door opens.  Mr. Robinson stands there with a huge

smile.

Mr. Robinson turns toward the sunroom.  Mrs. Robinson is

sitting there.

Mr. Robinson hands him drink.

Mr. Robinson exits.

Mr. Robinson and ELAINE enter.

SHOT - BEN AND ELAINE in Ben's car.  From the back.  Ben

leans forward slightly, pushing the car recklessly in

and out of the traffic.  Ben is wearing dark glasses.

He leans on the HORN.  The car directly ahead of him

does not move to the right.  Ben jerks his car over to the

right, swerves around the car ahead, jamming his horn

down, and swerves back into the outside lane, giving the

driver of the other car an angry look as he passes him.

Elaine holds on to the dashboard to keep her balance.

A drab, almost deserted room with formally dressed WAITERS.

Ben and Elaine are seated at a table.

A waiter moves forward toward them.

The waiter moves away.

The waiter returns with a menu.

Ben and Elaine walking on the strip.

Ben pushes through the people crowded in around the

entrance.  Without turning around, he waits for Elaine

who has difficulty following him.  As she gets to him,

he starts forward again.  He starts up the stairs.

Elaine is just behind him.

Seedy, ugly, three quarters filled.  A tuxedoed HOOD leads

them through the tables to a table directly under the stage

on which a STRIPPER is in the process of removing her

dress.  There is one chair facing the stage, the other with

its back to and up against the stage.  Ben sits down in

the chair facing the stage.  Elaine stands for a moment,

unsure.

Elaine sits in the chair with her back to the stage.

She folds her hands on the table and looks down at them.

Ben takes a pair of dark glasses out of his pocket and

puts them on.  The two chairs are slightly angled toward

each other so that Ben can look up at the stage without

looking directly at Elaine.

The stripper is reflected in Ben's glasses.

She is down to a tasseled bra and g-string.  She is

twirling the tassels.

Elaine turns around, looks at the stripper and turns

back.

Elaine doesn't answer.

The stripper sees Elaine look.  The stripper smiles toward

Ben and walks toward his table, twirling the tassels as she

walks.  Ben smiles as he watches her approaching.

The stripper moves directly behind Elaine's chair.  The

spotlight from the back of the house falls into Elaine's

face.  As it does, Elaine puts her hand up to shield

her eyes.

The stripper slides a finger into her mouth, wets it

and holds it up in the air.  The music stops and a

DRUM ROLL starts.  The stripper bends over Elaine's head

and begins swinging the tassels so that they rotate in

front of Elaine's face.

He leans forward slightly to watch the action.  The

swinging tassels are reflected in his glasses.

The DRUM ROLL gets louder and faster.  The tassels

swing more frantically.

She pulls her hand down from in front of her eyes.

With Elaine's face reflected in his glasses.

Through Ben's glasses.  Elaine's face seen darkly but

fully for the first time.  The tassels swing in front

of it.  Tears start out of her eyes.

He reaches up to remove the glasses.

As the glasses come off and her face is seen in the harsh

spill from the spotlight.  The tears are running down

her face.  Only her eyes are crying as she looks straight

at Ben.

With his glasses off, he watches her.  He reaches forward

and puts his hand in the way of the tassels.

Some of the customers start to boo.  Ben rises, takes

Elaine's arm and leads her toward the exit.

The entrance to the strip joint.  Elaine runs to the

bottom of the steps.  The Sunset Strip sidewalk outside

is crowded with people moving back and forth.  Ben follows

her.  She pushes through the crowd on the sidewalk.  Ben

catches her and holds her arm.

Elaine leans against the side of the building and pulls

her arm away.

Ben, facing her, keeps moving from side to side, trying

to get her to look at him.  She keeps looking away.

She starts to cry.  People on the sidewalk are looking at

them.  She turns away from them.  Ben moves away from

them.  Ben moves around in front of her.

She brings both hands up to her face.  Ben looks at her

for a few moments in agony.  Then, very determined, he

takes her wrists in his hands and pulls them away from

her face.  She looks up startled.  She starts to give a

little cry but before she can he is kissing her.  She closes

her eyes.

He brings his fists, containing her hands, up to the side

of her face.  He opens his hands against her face, freeing

her hands.  Her hands move slowly to his wrists and hang

on.  After a while she pulls away, turning her head slightly

to one side.

He starts to pull her head back.

Ben and Elaine are sitting in the car in a drive-in

restaurant.  There are trays hooked onto windows along

side of both of them.  They are eating and drinking

furiously.

He looks at her.

She is watching him carefully.

A car with a COUPLE OF TEENAGERS has driven up in the

slot on their right.  Its RADIO is tuned into a rock

and roll station and it is playing LOUDLY.  Ben leans

across Elaine and speaks through the window to the

kid behind the wheel.

The kid turns the radio up.  Ben and Elaine roll their

windows up.

From outside of car.  Ben is talking with great animation

- Elaine is watching him.  They are both eating as Ben

talks, telling Elaine a story.  Their windows are rolled

up.

SOUNDS: Cars GUNNING their ENGINES; horns HONKING;

radios PLAYING; waitresses YELLING orders; customers

YELLING at waitresses; kids LAUGHING and TALKING from

car to car; MOTORCYCLES driving in and out, TRAFFIC.

The car coasts silently to a stop in front of the Robinson

house.  The RADIO plays QUIETLY.  Ben turns it OFF.  They

sit there for a long time without saying anything, Ben's

hand touching her shoulder.  It is very quiet.

He nods.  They continue to sit there for another long

moment.

He starts the car immediately and drives away from the

house.

Ben is driving.

There is a SQUEAL of TIRES as Ben almost drives off

the road.

Ben and Elaine enter the lobby and stand just inside

the door.  They start in a few steps.

ONE of the CAR PARKERS passes them on his way out.

CAMERS BEGINS TO PULL UP AND AWAY.  A BELLBOY passes

them.

The room clerk smiles at them.

Ben and Elaine stop a few feet into the center of the

lobby.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK to a HIGH OVERHEAD SHOT

revealing many people moving back and forth in the

lobby, passing Ben and Elaine.

He moves her toward the door.

Ben brings Elaine through the door to the porch.

PAN WITH THEM as they start down the steps.  Coming up

the steps toward them is Miss DeWitte, on the arm of

another ELDERLY LADY.

SOUND:  Car STARTING noisily.

Ben and Elaine in his car.  He takes his hand off

the ignition, jams on the accelerator and drives the car

speedily for twenty-one feet and jams on the brakes.  He

turns off the ignition and the lights.  He puts his

head down on the steering wheel.  He lifts his head.

She nods.

She takes his hand.

He turns the key in the ignition and starts the car.

He freezes with his hand still on the key.

He turns off the engine.

She nods.

He starts the car and drives out.

BEN'S CAR

SHOT - INT. BEN'S CAR - BEN DRIVING

It is raining.  On the seat beside Ben is a package.

From the way it is wrapped, we can tell it is a gift.

Ben's right hand is on it as he drives.  The radio is

playing.  Past Ben and through the windsheild as the

Robinson house comes closer and closer.  The front door

of the Robinson house opens and Mrs. Robinson comes out,

dressed in a housecoat, and, in four or five fast steps,

reaches the car, opens the door on the passengers side

and climbs in.  Ben moves the package over into his lap.

Ben starts the car forward down the driveway.

As they drive.

Ben stops the car in front of a house halfway down

the block.

Mrs. Robinson looks at him for a moment.

There is a pause while Ben looks at her expression.  Then

he grabs the keys out of the ignition, opens the door on

his side and jumps out of the car, carrying the package.

TRACK WITH BEN as he runs up the street and up the drive-

way toward the Robinson house.  Ben gets to the front

door.

Ben runs in.

Ben runs up the stairs.  He still carries the package.

Ben gets to the top just as Elaine comes out of the door

to her bedroom.  She is wearing a skirt and slip and

carrying one shoe.

Ben pushes her back into her room.

Ben turns and looks.

Mrs. Robinson is just entering the house.

He turns around.

Elaine is standing in the doorway watching him.  She

still holds the shoe in her hand.

SOUND of Mrs. Robinson's FOOTSTEPS in the hall below.

Ben pulls Elaine around behind the open door.  They stand

in the angle formed by the door and the wall as though

they are hiding from someone.  Mrs. Robinson's FOOTSTEPS

can be heard coming up the stairs.

He holds her against the wall in the corner.

Mrs. Robinson's FOOTSTEPS can be heard coming down the

hall.

The FOOTSTEPS stop.

Back in the corner.  Mrs. Robinson's face appears in the

crack in the door at Elaine's shoulder.  Elaine looks from

Ben's face to the crack through which she can see her

mother's eyes staring.

She looks back at Ben, then back at her mother's face again.

Mrs. Robinson's eyes watch her through the crack in the

door.  Elaine looks away.

Ben backs up.

Moving along the wall as though to keep as far from Ben

as possible, Elaine moves away from the door.

Elaine walks a few steps toward the other side of the room

then turns back toward Ben.  The tears are starting out

of her eyes.

She moves toward him as though to hit him.  He backs into

the hall.  Elaine SLAMS the door shut.

Mrs. Robinson stands at the end of it, looking at Ben.

He looks at her in horror.  He starts to back down the

hall toward the stairs, holding the package against

his chest.

BACK FROM MRS. ROBINSON

She is standing there, perfectly calm.  She gets further

and further away as though it is a very long hall in a

very bad dream.

FADE IN

Ben sits cross-legged on his bed in the dark, his back

against the fishtank, smoking.

Ben drives by in his car.  He looks at the house.

Ben dressed differently, stands by the window overlooking

the backyard.  Over his shoulder, we can see Mr. Braddock

down by the pool, dressed in a sweater, cleaning the pool

with a long-handled scoop.  Mr. Braddock looks up at Ben's

window.  Ben moves aside.

Ben is standing behind a tree watching the

Robinson house.  In the driveway of the Robinson house,

Elaine is getting into the Robinson car.  Mr. Robinson

is putting Elaine's luggage into the car.  Mrs. Robinson

stands at the door.  Mr. Robinson gets into the car and

starts it.  The car drives down the driveway and down the

street.

Ben, dressed differently again, sits in a chair by his

desk.  He is writing.  On the piece of paper is written:

DEAR ELAINE, ELAINE, ELAINE, ELAINE, and her name several

dozen times.  He stops and looks up.

It is early morning.  We see a swinging door pushed open

to reveal:  Mr. Braddock, dressed in a bathrobe, standing

at the kitchen counter by the window through which we can

see an orange tree.  Mr. Braddock is pouring orange juice

from a MINUTE MAID container.  Ben stands inside door.

MR. BRADDOCK STARTS TO SMILE.

He almost giggles as he crosses to Ben and takes his hand

to shake it.  Mrs. Braddock appears in the doorway.  Ben

is shaking his father's hand.

Ben picks up his suitcase, walks to the door and turns.

Ben driving his car (left to right)

The last part runs down like a record on an old gramaphone.

Ben driving his car (left to right)

It runs down.

Ben's car is being gassed up.  It is a huge gas station

with dozens of pumps and many neon lights.  Ben runs to

a series of vending machines.  He pushes quarters into

them, receiving cigarettes, a sandwich, an apple, a cup

of coffee.  Balancing them all carefully, he runs back

to the car, climbs in, puts his purchases on top of

the dashboard, hands the attendant a bill and drives

off.

Ben driving (left to right) and eating.

It runs down.

Ben driving (left to right)

It runs down.

Ben driving (left to right)

It runs down.

Ben barely stops as he hands the change out the window of

the low-slung sports car and up to the toll taker.

Ben driving over bridge (left to right)

It runs down...

PAN THE CAR past us and HOLD ON it as it disappears in

the distance.

CLOSE ON BEN as he comes through the door.  MOVE WITH

HIM as he wanders around the the commons room which is filled

with STUDENTS.  Girls SINGING, couples necking; a MAN

with a heavy knapsack.  Ben walks to a LADY RECEPTIONIST

NO. 1, who sits at a reception desk.

The Receptionist runs her pencil along a list of names

under the glass top of her desk.  She finds it.

The Receptionist's hand moves to the receiver of a phone on

the desk.  Ben looks at her hand for several seconds.  He

takes a step backward.  Her hand starts to lift the receiver.

Ben moves backward, puts his hand up as though to stop her

and shakes his head, speechlessly.

Looking at Ben.

Move with him as he moves past the students toward the

door.

PAN AROUND CAMPUS in a circle, ending on a CLOSEUP OF

BEN, standing in the middle of the deserted campus,

looking around, lost.

MR. McCLEERY

From the bottom of the stairway, shooting up.  MR.

McCLEERY is the landlord of the rooming house.  They

are climbing a flight of stairs, Mr. McCleery first,

then Ben, carrying his suitcase.

Mr. McCleery stops and turns.  Ben almost runs into him.

Mr. McCleery takes a couple of steps up, Ben following

and stops again.

Mr. McCleery just looks up at him.

Mr. McCleery takes a couple more steps and stops again.

He looks at Ben searchingly, then turns and continues up

the stairs and down the hall.

PAN THE ROOM in a circle, seeing a sink in one corner, a

bed, a bureau, a table, a lamp, a chair, a window that

overlooks a Berkeley street - ending in a CLOSEUP OF BEN,

standing in the middle of it, looking lost.

DAWN.  The campus is empty except for Ben who, dressed

carefully in his black suit, sits on a bench in the

quadrangle outside of Wendell Hall.

DAY

During which Ben remains static while the quadrangle and

thet area around him fill up with students; walking, talking,

hurrying to class, strolling, sitting, reading, handing

out petitions, etc.

Elaine comes out.  She walks, carrying her books, in Ben's

direction.

He sees her and stiffens.

Approaching from the distance.

He stands.

As she walks, she is joined by another GIRL with whom she

converses as they walk.

Watching.  He takes a step forward.

As they approach, they are joined by a tall BOY with a

beard.

He starts toward them, falters, straightens himself.

They are getting quite near.  Suddenly they are joined

by THREE AFRICAN EXCHANGE STUDENTS, in tribal robes.

They all greet each other and continue to walk toward us.

He looks at the massed group moving toward him, horror

taking over his face.  He starts forward.  As he passes

Elaine and her friends he seems to take a deep breath and

hold it.

She stops and slowly turns to look in his direction.  Her

companions also stop.  Ben changes his direction and

makes a circle to his left as though he has just changed

his mind.  He looks at her.  He does not stop walking.

He makes a slow circle around her as he speaks.

Elaine and the others staring at him.

He turns and walks away from them.  They stand still

watching them go.  He starts to walk faster and faster.

They watch him as he gets further and further away and

then breaks into a run.  He disappears in the distance.

SOUND:  Footsteps running, a door opening and closing,

footsteps running upstairs, a door opening and slamming.

Ben leans with his back against the closed door, breathing

heavily.

Ben following and watching Elaine.

Ben is sitting at a table by the window through which

we can see the street.  He is drinking a beer.  Other

tables are filled with students having animated discussions.

Ben starts to pour some beer from the bottle into the

glass.  He stops as he sees something through the window.

He leans forward.

Elaine comes out of a bookstore across the street.  She

crosses the street and moves to a bus stop.  He stands,

fumbles in his pocket for money, puts a dollar on the

table and rushes out.

Ben comes out of the door just as Elaine gets into a bus

and the doors close behind her.

The bus starts off.  Ben runs after it.  The bus gets to

the next corner and stops for a red light.  Ben catches

up with it, runs to the front door and knocks on the

door.  The door opens and he climbs in.

She is seated next to an OLDER LADY by the window immediately

in front of the rear exit door.  She keeps looking out

the window, almost holding her breath as she hears:

There is a pause and then, immediately behind her:

Ben's face is right behind Elaine, between her and the older

lady sitting next to her.  Ben is standing on the steps

to the rear exit door.  Elaine continues to look out the

window.

Elaine doesn't answer.  The lady sitting next to Elaine

takes a look at her, turns around and looks at Ben,

then looks at Elaine again.

She doesn't answer.

Hold on them riding.

Ben and Elaine are walking along in front of one of the

outside animal cages.  Ben is walking a step or two behind

Elaine.  He is darting glances to the right and left.

She stops.  Ben stops.

She looks at him and starts to shake her head.

Elaine looks.  A good-looking young man is striding

briskly toward them.  It is CARL SMITH.

Carl strides up to them.  He takes the pipe out of his

mouth and puts it in his pocket.  He reaches out and

takes Elaine's hands.

Carl frowns and looks up over Elaine's shoulder at Ben.

Ben smiles.

Ben steps forward and grasps Carl's hand.

Carl steps back and puts an arm around Elaine's shoulder.

The three of them look at each other for a moment.

Ben turns and starts walking back the way he came.  Carl

and Elaine turn and go in the opposite direction.  Ben

stops after a few steps and walks over to one of the

cages.  He grips the rail with his hand and looks back

at:

Walking away, his arm over her shoulder, his other hand

gesturing with the pipe in it as he talks.

As he watches them go.  His artificial smile disappears.

The agony is such that he has to steady himself with

his hand on the rail.  He turns his face away, toward the

cage.  There is an animal in it, staring at Ben.  They

look at each other.  There is a box - an automatic device

with a recorded desciption of the animal - that begins

to deliver its RECORDED MESSAGE.

Ben is standing by the window, looking out.

SHOT - THROUGH THE WINDOW

Elaine is walking up the street toward the rooming house.

He jumps to the other side of the window and peers out

carefully.

WINDOW

Elaine turns in and disappears into the rooming house

front door below.

BEN

He runs to the bed and puts the covers back into place.

He goes to the window sill, picks up an empty beer can,

crosses to the bureau, opens a bureau drawer.  He crosses

to the wastepaper basket under the sink, bends down and

takes a newspaper out of it.  He crosses to the chair and

sits down.  He holds the newspaper in front of him.  It

is hopelessly crumpled.  He gets up, crosses to the

bureau, opens a drawer and takes out a traveling iron.

He kneels down, puts the newspaper on the floor and tires

to straighten it out with the iron.

There is a KNOCK on the door.  He rises, puts the iron

back in the drawer as quietly and quickly as he can,

then back to the chair, sits down and holds the newspaper

on his lap.

There is another KNOCK.  Ben crosses to the door and opens

it.  Elaine is standing in the hall.

Ben nods.

Ben moves in behind her and puts his hand on her arm.

He touches her hair.

Ben pushes her down softly onto the bed.  He kneels

along side her.

Ben sits next to her and puts his hand on her shoulder.

She puts her hands on his shoulder.

Elaine tightens her arms around his neck.

Ben is almost lying on top of her.  Elaine screams - a

long, loud scream.  Ben looks at her.  He leaps off

the bed and runs to the sink.  He fills a glass with

water and brings it to Elaine.  He starts toward the

door.

SOUND OF FOOTESTEPS on the stairway and in the hall.

Ben goes to the closet, opens the door, takes a jacket

from a hanger and puts it on.

SOUND:  A KNOCK on the door.

Elaine sits up and drinks the water.  Ben looks at

her then goes to the door and opens it.

Several BOYS are gathering in the hallway trying to see

into the room.  Ben edges through the door into the

hallway.

He starts for the stairs.

He opens the door a little way.  They all try to see in.

The boys start back to their rooms.  Mr. McCleery and Ben

stand and look at each other for a few seconds.

Mr. McCleery turns away and walks down the hall and starts

down the stairs.

Mr. McCleery disappears down the stairs.  Ben turns and

goes back into the room.

Elaine is standing at the sink.  She is putting water on

her face.  Ben goes to the closet and takes out his suit-

case and carries it to the bed.

Ben opens the suitcase.

He stands, looking into the empty suitcase.

Elaine sits in the chair.  She watches him as he goes to

the bureau, takes some shirts from a drawer and puts them

in the suitcase, then goes back to the bureau.  He gets

down on his knees and looks under the bureau.

Ben takes the marble to the suitcase and packs it.

He goes back to the bureau, gets some socks and underwear

and carries them to the suitcase.

He goes back to the bureau, opens a drawer, takes out

some T-shirts and the beer can and carries them to the

suitcase.

He packs the T-shirts, then carries the beer can back to

the bureau and puts it back in the drawer, takes some

ties from the drawer and crosses to the suitcase.  Elaine

gets up, goes to the door and opens it.

She walks out, shutting the door behind her.  He crosses

to the window.

Past Ben, through the window, we see Elaine walking away.

She walks the length of the street and disappears.

Ben asleep in his bed.  Suddenly he sits up.

Standing in the darkness by the door.

He gets out of the bed.

He goes to her and they kiss.

She shakes her head.

She nods.

She goes to the door.

She opens the door and steps into the hall.  He goes to the

door.

He closes the door.

TELEGRAM

addressed to MR. BENJAMIN BRADDOCK

SOUND:  FOOTSTEPS descending stairs.  Someone WHISTLING.

The FOOTSTEPS and WHISTLING get nearer and stop.

Hands come in and pick up telegram, open the envelope

and unfold, the telegram reads:

PAN UP TO BEN.  He crumples the telegram in his hand.

CLOSE UP ONE BEN'S HAND fiddling with the crumpled telegram.

Students are moving quickly from building to building.

Ben is walking alongside Elaine.

They move up the steps of a classroom building.  Ben

pushes through a lot of students to keep up with Elaine.

They walk down a corridor.  On each side are open doors

to classrooms with students filing into each of them.

A bell rings.  Elaine turns into one of the doors.  Ben

is left in the hall.  He looks around.  All the doors

in the classrooms close.  He leans against the wall.

Standing poised by the door.  The bell rings.  The classroom

doors open and students start to file out.  Elaine comes

out of the classroom.

Elaine starts walking down the corridor towards the exit door.

Ben follows her, moving out of the way of the other students.

Elaine and twenty other girls are in basketball uniforms.

Two teams of girls are playing basketball.  Elaine sits

on the bench, watching.  Ben stands behind her.  The girls

are shouting and clapping and jumping up and down.

She turns and looks at him.

Elaine jumps up, applauding a shot.

Elaine and several other girls run onto the court as a

number of girls run off the court to the bench.

Ben is seated across a study table from Elaine.  There are

many other students scattered around the room.

She starts to get up.

She starts to move away.

Ben and Elaine are standing at the entrance.

She goes through the doorway into Wendell Hall.  Ben remains

standing in exactly the same positin.  After a few moments

the door opens and Elaine comes out, steps quickly to Ben,

kisses him, then runs back inside.  Ben turns and starts

away from the door.  The door opens again.  Ben turns back

and takes a step toward the door, smiling expectantly.  A

tall bearded MAN comes out and goes past Ben.  Ben breaks up.

Through the window of a hippy jewelry store we see a sales-

woman modeling a ring for Ben.  He nods, she takes it off,

puts it in a box and gives it to him.  He pays for it and

exits PAST CAMERA, WHISTLING.

Ben enters carrying four oddly shaped boxes and some flowers.

Ben is whistling happily as he runs up the stairs two at a

time.  He opens the door to his room and steps in.  The room

is dark.  The figure of a MAN is silhouetted against the

window.  Ben freezes just inside the door.  There is a long

pause.

Ben takes a step forward.

Mr. Robinson climbs across the bed to get to the door.

Ben takes a step toward him.

Mr. Robinson stands at the door.

Mr. Robinson opens the door and starts into the hall.

Mr. Robinson turns back from the hall.

Mr. Robinson starts down the stairs.  Mr. McCleery is

standing on the stairway, listening.

Mr. Robinson turns and goes down the stairs, past Mr.

McCleery who looks up at Ben.

He walks to the door, looks out into the hall at Mr.

McCleery, then shuts the door.  Ben goes to the window

and looks out.

On the street below, Mr. Robinson getting into a cab.

He runs out of his room.

Ben runs down the stairs.  Mr. McCleery is standing by

the pay phone.

Ben stuffs the money back in his pocket and runs down the

stairs and out of the building.  Through the door we see

him run down the street and out of sight.

Ben reacting.

The elvator at the end of the hall opens and a fat GIRL

walks toward us with an envelope in her hand.  She walks

into CAMERA.

Ben driving his car (right to left) SOUND: An ENVELOPE

being RIPPED OPEN.

Ben's car is parked two blocks from the Robinson

house.  Ben has just left the car and is making his way to

the Robinson backyard.

Ben climbs a fence into the backyard and moves to the house.

He looks up at Elaine's bedroom window.

He picks up a pebble and throws it at the window.

He moves to the back door, takes off his shoes, puts them

into his jacket pockets, tries the back door.  It opens

and he goes in.

There are no lights.  Ben moves through the house into the

hall and up the stairway.

Ben goes to the door of Elaine's room and looks in.  There

is a light on in the room and the sound of someone moving

around.  He goes in.

As Ben moves further into the room, Mrs. Robinson, carrying

some of Elaine's clothes, comes out of Elaine's closet and

moves past Ben.

She does not stop, but walks casually past him into the hall.

NIGHT

Ben follows her through the hall into Mrs. Robinson's room.

Mrs. Robinson, without stopping, puts Elaine's clothes

down next to a half-packed open suitcase on her bed and

moves to a telephone on the night table.  She lifts the

receiver and dials zero.  Ben follows.

She hangs up.

She picks up a glass from the night table and takes a

drink.

SOUND of SEVERAL CARS TURNING INTO DRIVEWAY.

The cars have reached the top of the driveway.  SOUND

of the SQUEAL of BRAKES and CAR DOORS OPENING.

Ben dives head first into the hall, scrambles to his

feet and runs to the back of the house.

Ben comes through the back door,

runs to the back fence and vaults it.  Lights start to

go on in the house behind him.

Ben, driving rapidly.  He jams on the brakes and stops

the car in the middle of the street.  Cars, HONKING

move around him as he sits, staring ahead.

People are YELLING as him from the cars going by.

Ben swings the car around in a U-turn and speeds off

in the other direction.

SERIES OF SHOTS

Ben driving rapidly (left to right) past the landmarks

established on the previous drive to Berkeley.

Ben pulls up in front of the Gamma Delta Tau house.  He gets

out of the car.  He is haggard, tired and unshaven.  The

car is mud-spattered.

Ben enters the hall.  Through a door can be seen a DOZEN

OR SO FRATERNITY BROTHERS seated at a table chowing down.

It is breakfast.  Ben walks into the dining room.

The fraternity brothers are eating and talking noisily.

They stop eating and turn toward him.

He goes back to his breakfast.

They start to laugh.

They all laugh a great deal.  Ben gives a polite smile.

A large steam-filled room with a row of FRATERNITY

BROTHERS in front of a row of sinks, brushing, combing,

shaving, etc.  Ben is standing at the door.

A great deal of laughter follows this gem.

Ben driving (right to left).  The laughter from the previous

scene can still be heard for a moment.

Ben is exhausted-looking.  He opens the windows, turns the

radio on and rubs his eyes.

SEQUENCE OF SHOTS

The car, moving speedily (right to left) south on the

Highway to Santa Barbara.

SHOT the CAR leaving the freeway under a SANTA BARBARA sign.

The car swings onto an off ramp and down to a street, turns

into a gas station and stops near the office.  Ben gets

out of the car and runs into the office.

The clock on the office wall reads 2:05.  The gas station

ATTENDANT is sitting reading a stock car magazine.

The attendant points.  Ben reaches for the phone book

hanging under the pay phone.

The front of it says SANTA BARBARA TELEPHONE DIRECTORY.

Ben opens it to the S's.  His finger runs down to the

Smiths.  There is at least a half a page of them.

Ben's finger runs up and down and stops at the name:

Smith, Carl W., M.D.

He inserts a dime and dials.  The attendant watches him.

SOUND of BUZZING from the phone.  It CLICKS open.

The attendant puts down his magazine and stares.

Ben hangs up the phone.  He turns to the attendant.

Ben runs out of the office.  The attendant goes to the

door.

getting into car.  The attendant is in the b.g.

The car drives out of the station.

The car comes toward us through the traffic.  It stops

in the intersection to make the turn.

SOUND:  THE ENGINE FAILING.  Ben looks down.

The needle is on "E".

He pumps the gas pedal.

It makes the turn and rolls to a stop by the curb.

He jumps out of the car, leaving the door open, and

starts to run down the street.

He looks up ahead on the other side of the street.

The First Presbyterian Church.

BEN

Running across the street.  He stops for a moment and looks

around.  There are a number of cars parked in front of the

church.  Among them is Mrs. Robinson's car.  Ben runs by

it and up the steps to the front doors of the church.

He pulls at the doors.  They are locked.  Through the glass

doors, we can see to the front of the church where the

wedding ceremony is taking place.

running around the side of the church.  There are glass

windows and doors through which, as he runs, we can see

the ceremony continuing.

Ben runs, looking for an entrance.  He goes all the way

around the church and stops at a side door.  He opens the

door and goes in.

The balcony is between two huge windows, one of which looks

out on the lawn outside, the other looks into the interior

of the church where the ceremony is taking place.  The sun

is coming through the window.  Ben stops and looks through

the inside window.  The minister is just closing the book.

He says something and Carl and Elaine kiss.

He puts his hands up against the glass and slumps.  The

minister shakes hands with Carl, then takes Elaine's hand.

The ORGAN music starts to THUNDER.

He moves to the center of the window and begins to POUND

on the glass.

Ben's shadow is thrown across the celebrants.  They all

turn around and look up at him.

Ben is like a trapped moth, beating on the window and yelling

soundlessly.

She looks up at Ben with a small, triumphant smile.

looking up at Ben.

looking up at Ben.

looking up at Ben.  She moves down the aisle toward him,

dazed.

Mr. Robinson, Carl, and Mrs. Robinson are moving toward

Elaine.  The ORGAN is playing LOUDLY.  Ben's voice can

be heard SHOUTING Elaine's name.  The POUNDING on the

glass can be heard.

The other guests are adlibbing their confusion.

She turns back toward her mother, father and Carl as they

come toward her.

looking at them.  ALL SOUND STOPS, except for Ben's

voice in the distance shouting "ELAIN ELAINE ELAINE."

Frozen frame.

Frozen frame.

Frozen frame.

Her face turning quickly to look up at Ben.

Frozen frame.  His face twisted with passion, his body

spread-eagled against the glass.

looking up at Ben.

The SOUND of the ORGAN and the guests' VOICES starts again.

He starts to go back down the stairs.  He reaches the

bottom of the stairs and goes through a door which leads

into the vestibule of the church.

Mr. Robinson is waiting for Ben, crouching, his arms spread.

Behind him is Elaine.  Ben moves toward them.  Mr. Robinson

grabs Ben around the waist.  Ben twists away.  Mr. Robinson

grabs Ben's collar and tears his jacket half off.  Ben

turns and hits Mr. Robinson in the face.  Mr. Robinson

falls down.  Ben moves to Elaine and grabs her hand.  He

pulls her toward the doors.

His back to the action, clawing away at the organ

obliviously.

A man in clerical garb is guarding the door.  Ben and

Elaine move toward the door.

Carl steps in and grabs Ben from behind.  Ben breaks

Carl's hold and picks up a gold cross off a nearby stand.

He begins to swing it, advancing toward Carl.  Carl

backs up toward the other guests.

Mrs. Robinson steps to Elaine.  She reaches out and takes

Elaine's wrist.

Elaine pulls her hand away.

He turns toward the man standing in front of the door and

raises the cross over his head.

The man moves away from the door.  Elaine steps forward

and opens the door.  She and Ben go out.

Ben jams the cross through the handles of the door.  He

grabs Elaine's wrist.

They start to run.  Elaine trips and falls.  Ben helps her

up and they continue to run.

From inside the church vestibule.  Through the glass

doors, we can see Elaine and Ben running down the street.

The wedding party members are tugging furiously at the

jammed doors.  Mrs. Robinson turns toward us and calmly

begins to put on her gloves.

Ben and Elaine running along the sidewalk.  Ben holds

her hand and is pulling her.  She still holds her

flowers.  They run to a bus that is just closing its

doors.

He bangs on the closed door of the bus.  The door opens.

Ben climbs the step into the bus and pulls Elaine up

after him.  The doors close.

Ben holds out a dollar bill.

The driver takes the bill and gives Ben some change.

Ben turns and pulls Elaine along to the back of the bus.

He pushes her into one of the seats and sits beside

her.  Ben looks toward the front of the bus.

He sees the driver and the passengers, all turned around

in their seats and looking back at them.

He turns and starts the bus.

They are breathing heavily.

She takes his hand.

Through the window in the back of the bus the church can

be seen receding in the distance.  There seem to be a

number of men dressed in black running around in the

street in front of it.

