The Horse Whisperer

Screenplay by

Eric Roth

Revised by

Richard LaGravenese

Screenplay by

Erich Roth

Based on the Novel by Nicholas Evans

Revised by

Richard LaGravenese

Second Draft

1/21/97

FADE IN:

A DREAM:

INT. STABLES; PILGRIM'S STALL - MORNING

Sunlit illuminates the darkened stable, highlighting the

contours of a magnificent HORSE (PILGRIM) in surreal, dream-

like imagery: his legs, his muscles, his sheen, his mane...

his eyes. He shakes his head and stamps his feet. He seems

confined. Eager to run.

INT. STABLES - MORNING

Pilgrim bursts through the stall and runs out the stables

into a blinding white morning.

EXT. AN OPEN FIELD LEADING TO WOODS - BRIGHT MORNING

Whiteness. Snow and sky without any discernible line between.

Camera is POV, as if on the horse, riding through the

whiteness. Snow kicks up from the side. We hear the breathing

of the horse. As we travel on hills, through trees, we

experience of sense of wild, exhilarating freedom.

We hear the giggles of a GIRL (GRACE) on the horse. An

occasional line;

END OF DREAM as we CUT TO:

INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Grace awakens, calmly. Takes a breath. Slides out of bed and

stands before a window, overlooking a beautiful Connecticut

country house. We see a snow-covered field and distant woods.

Grace presses her faces against the cold, frosted window

eager to get out.

INT. MACLEAN NEW YORK APARTMENT - MORNING

Alarm rings, ANNIE MACLEAN awakens. She shuts the alarm and

scoots up in bed. She waits. Seconds later the television

across the foot of her bed turns on from a timer -- to a CNN

24 NEWS channel.

INT. HALLWAY/ANNIE & ROBERT'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Grace, fully dressed except for her boots, tiptoes past a

partially opened bedroom door. Her father ROBERT is asleep,

alone, on his huge king size bed.

INT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE KITCHEN - MORNING

Grace is putting on her boots on a bench beside a back door.

She is wearing her mother's outfit. As she slides the boot

on, we see behind her a row of framed photos -- Robert, Grace

and Annie in happy times.

She slaps a note on the refrigerator, with a magnet -- "Gone

riding. Back around 10. Love, G."

EXT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE, BACK ENTRANCE - MORNING

Grace slips on her jacket and hat as she comes down the

steps, her feet hitting the walk...

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - MORNING

Annie's feet hit the ground, running -- her breath showing in

the cold air. She passes other joggers with ease. She crosses

the street and heads for an elegant CPW building.

INT. MACLEAN'S NEW YORK APARTMENT - MORNING

Dressed in running clothes, Annie opens the door and picks up

several newspapers that were delivered. She carries them into

the kitchen and sets them beside a huge stack of publications,

magazines, papers, etc... Knowing she must read all of them at

some point, she breathes a disgusted sign. She thumbs through

the POST as she pours herself a cup of coffee. Something

catches her eyes and she snarls:

She dials a portable phone and moves through the apartment as

she talks:

Throughout the phone call, Annie is selecting clothes,

turning on the shower, undressing...

EXT. DYER HORSE FARM - MORNING

The snow has stopped falling. Grace walks along a hill, hands

in pocket. Spread out on the landscape are horses, on a horse

farm, standing like statues in the white covered fields.

As Grace comes along the hill, we see another GIRL (JUDITH)

coming from the opposite direction. She doesn't have Grace's

lean elegance but her warm, friendly smile brightens her

face. Upon reaching her, Grace returns the smile with a hug.

Judith immediately senses a problem so she continues casually,

as they begin walking away from Camera...

Judith laughs as they continue talking, their voices trailing

off, as the girls head for the stables.

INT. STABLES, THE DYER HORSE FARM - MORNING

There are several horses in their stalls. Grace and Judith

enter, talking, carrying their English saddles. Judith stops

at a stall, disappearing into it as she says "Hello?"...,

Grace continues to the end stall.

Pilgrim (the horse from the dream) stands looking at her.

He's a massive figure beside her but she shows no inhibition.

She enters, touching his muzzle. He plays with her by nudging

her back.

EXT. DYER HORSE FARM - MORNING

They lead their horses, now saddled and ready, from the barn.

Pilgrim tosses his head, prancing, playing with the snow.

The girls mount the horses and ride off together.

INT. ANNIE'S MAGAZINE OFFICE - MID-MORNING

Annie, casually dressed, enters the empty offices of her

magazine. She turns on the light, revealing a large row of

stalls and glassed in private offices. Everywhere we look, we

see indications of the kind of magazine she edits.

She strolls to her office -- the largest -- surrounded by

windows. The office walls are covered with photos, most of

which are COVER STORIES ON ANNIE.

(One photo is of Annie's father MARTIN. A BRITISH AMBASSADOR

with his young daughter on his lap, her arms affectionately

around his neck. Her mother stands right behind them, posing

like a member of the royal family.)

Annie sits and takes a breath. The only photo on her desk is

a family portrait, taken when Annie was given the Crystal

Award -- Robert, Grace, herself and the Award. She checks her

watch -- it is almost 9:30.

INT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE, MASTER BEDROOM/CLOSET - MID-MORNING

A WALK-IN CLOSET of the master bedroom; one side is Annie's,

one side is Robert's.

Robert stands before his bureau in the closet -- he has just

showered and is putting on his watch and ring which lay

beside his cologne assortment. A FRAMED PHOTO OF HE AND ANNIE

in India -- younger, vibrant, in love... when they first met.

THE PHONE RINGS. Robert enters into the bedroom to pick up.

INSERT ANNIE: They speak in dulled, emotionless voices:

Awkward pause.

Beat.

Pause. There is a lot unspoken but understood between them.

Annie's other phone line rings. Robert hears it as well.

Annie picks up the other line and her manner brightens, her

energy boosts...

EXT. CONNECTICUT COUNTRYSIDE - MORNING

Long Shot of the girls riding at an easy pacing, talking all

the time. Grace is an elegant rider, quite self-assured for a

13-year-old... We come into the scene at the moment the

girls have just shared a secret or a fantasy. Judith is

giggling uncontrollably. Grace laughs as she says:

They stop at the end of the field, facing the woods.

Grace nods. They ride into the woods, continuing their talk.

EXT. WOODS - MORNING

The girls ride down, along a stand of hickories and poplars

to a RIVER. They stop the horses and their conversation, to

listen to the sound of the water. Below them, off in the

distance, they can just make out a two-lane country road.

They begin to make their way.

INT. ANNIE'S OFFICE - MORNING

Annie's office is now crowded with a dozen or so employees;

sitting on the couch, on the window sills, on the arms of

chairs, against the walls... Paper bag emptied of bagels,

cream cheese, orange juice, paper plates...

Hand Held Camera captures the energy of the room as it

follows overlapping lines, laughter, etc... yet, no matter how

casual it all seems, Annie is very much at the center of

control... We enter the scene of LAUGHTER, as Annie asks

KEVIN, a feature writer:

LAUGHTER... Everyone starts Ad Libbing...

Characters shout out designer names and comments as the phone

rings and LUCY picks up... speaking amdist the talking...

The room goes dead quiet, instantly. Then erupts in laughter

as everyone realizes it. Annie, however, waves her hand as

she takes the phone...

Everyone obeys. Annie presses SPEAKER PHONE.

Silence. Gottschalk doesn't immediately respond. Everyone

waits. Covert looks between characters suggest this is

interesting -- has Annie over-stepped her bounds with the

magazine's owner? Annie waits without a shred of anxiety --

even though she might have some. Finally:

Everyone silently acknowledges Annie guts and influence.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - MORNING

It's perfectly still. We are looking down an empty TWO-LANE

ROAD covered with fresh snow. We see the girls slowly riding

out of the woods, talking. They cross the road and start up

into the woods on the other side... They are trying to sing a

LIZ PHAIR song, "CHOPSTICKS"

Suddenly there's the SOUND OF THE METAL OF JUDITH'S HORSE

scraping on some sheer ice hidden under the soft snow. Judith

notices first...

The horse staggers... Judith looks to Grace --

The horse tries to find tracing with his hindfeet, kicking

up sprays of snow and ice shards. The horse suddenly falls on

the ice and goes down hard on its knees...

The horse stumbles to get back on its feet, slipping again.

Frightened, it rears and Judith, caught off balance, is

thrown, her foot catching in the stirrup...

Her horse, unable to find its balance, starts to slide backward

down the incline.

Grace, directly behind Judith, tries to turn Pilgrim to avoid

being hit by the errant horse.

What follows, we see from Grace's perspective. The details

that form the images and sounds of Grace's mind are fast,

disembodies, almost surreal as --

Judith's horse bulldozes into Pilgrim, taking his legs out

from under him, sending both horses careening down the icy

slope. Grace hangs onto Pilgrim's neck. Judith, her leg

helplessly tangled in the stirrup, is dragged, her head

bouncing on the frozen ground.

They slide all the way back down to the COUNTRY ROAD. Pilgrim

is the first to find his legs and stand. Grace manages to sit

up in the saddle. She sees Judith's horse stumbling back onto

its feet, one of his legs broken at the ankles, walking in

confused circles, dragging Judith -- her face bleeding, her

leg hanging from the stirrup.

She tries to extricate her leg from the stirrup.

Grace sees it before she hears it. A GLINT off of steel. We

then hear the rumbling SOUND of a TRUCK coming around the

bend... The Girls on their horses in the middle of the road...

The Truck, an 18 wheeler carrying logging equipment, comes

around the turn... Grace grabs the bridle, trying to get

Judith's horse out of the road... The driver, seeing them, lays

on the air horn. The Horses bolt at the sound, the bridle

slipping out of Grace's hand...

... The horses turn apart. The Driver starts furiously

downshifting, trying to brake... He seems to get it under

control when suddenly THE TRUCK SKIDS on some ice. It begins

to slide, out of control, the truck bed and the cab jack-

knifing. The truck literally plows over the helpless Judith

and her horse -- the horse going down on the pavement, Judith

disappearing under him. The truck's cab, like a mythic

monster, heads right for Grace and Pilgrim... Grace looks

right into the Driver's helpless, frightened eyes... Suddenly,

Pilgrim rears up at the truck, sending Grace flying, bouncing

her off the pavement and under the wheel of the truck.

Pilgrim instinctively jumps onto the hood of the truck, his

hooves caught between the rear-view mirrors like some

grotesque ornament. His head and chest slams into the window,

shattering through the glass.

And then it is still.

The truck has stopped halfway in the road. Judith's horse

lies in the road, motionless. Pilgrim, on the truck's hood,

his legs splayed, stuck, his head and chest, bleeding. He

shrieks, struggling to get to his feet. He manages to free

his legs and, stepping off the cab onto the road, walks off,

wounded, in pain, into the sanctuary of the woods...

The Driver stumbles out of the cab, his head bleeding, in

shock. He sits on the ground. All we hear is the sound of the

river and the wind in the trees.

Grace, halfway under the truck, frozen, stares up at the

beautiful morning sky.

WE HEAR THE SOUND OF A HELICOPTER...

INT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE/KITCHEN - LATER MORNING

ANGLE ON GRACE'S NOTE on the refrigerator as Robert enters

from the outside with two bags of groceries. He places them on

the counter near the PHONE MACHINE. He sees ONE MESSAGE is

there. He presses PLAY as he puts away the groceries.

A BEAT LATER the PHONE RINGS and he picks up, with the machine

still playing...

As Robert listens, the voice of Liz's on the machine from

inside, pulls his attention. On hearing "accident," Robert

lowers the receiver, frozen, as he listens to Liz...

EXT. THE WOODS - LATE MORNING

Pilgrim is hiding in the shadows under an old railroad bridge,

standing up to his knees in the river. His chest is cut open,

bleeding. His face cut, contorted and swollen. LIZ HAMMOND,

the local veterinarian, hides a hypodermic needle in her

jacket, quietly walking into the water.

A Policeman is going into the water downstream from Pilgrim,

whose chest is heaving, blood drips into the water. He

watches Liz. She is almost to him when suddenly he bolts,

running upstream.

The Policeman behind him shouts and waves his arm. Frightened,

Pilgrim wheels back toward Liz, who manages to stick the hypo

in his neck. He rears, knocking her down, then runs out of

the river, the hypo still in his neck. He runs for the

sanctuary of the woods.

INT. TRAIN - LATE MORNING

Annie sits on a train -- her laptop out, notes beside her,

her cellular phone, ever-ready. The train passes through

beautiful countryside but Annie is focused on an editorial

she's writing.

The train pulls into a station and stops, causing Annie to

take a break and stretch her arms and neck. She looks out the

window for the first time and sees:

A MAN, his hands in his pockets, waiting on the platform. She

watches as the Man holds out his arms to his two young

children, who are getting off the train. He picks them up as

his wife enters the scene, kissing him and wrapping her arm

around his waist. The children talk a mile a minute and the

father listens to every word.

Annie doesn't even realize she is staring. As they leave the

platform, she turns back to her laptop. As the train begins

to move again, Annie returns to work.

HER CELLULAR PHONE RINGS. She answers.

The expression on her face sinks into a stunned panic.

INT. HOSPITAL, CONNECTICUT - DAY

Annie is running through the corridors, her bags in tow. She

sees Robert standing in the corridor talking to a DOCTOR. She

runs for them.

When she appears, Robert and the Doctor stop their

conversation. Robert looks to Annie, who is waiting for news.

Robert is teary eyed, beaten down.

Annie's horrified, waiting for news of Grace.

Annie responds without tears and cries but with a quiet

shock. We can tell her mind is racing, trying to process the

information, until finally she asks:

The Doctor and Robert are surprised by the question.

Annie stares for a beat, then nods apologetically.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Pilgrim is sedated, lying in his own blood in the snow,

surrounded by Police and trackers. He is being attended to by

LIZ HAMMOND, who is dictating to her assistant:

Liz looks up to him, resentfully, but knows he's right.

INT. GRACE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Camera moves from Grace's face down her body to Robert's

hand, which rubs her good leg. He looks at her lovingly,

pushing the hair from her forehead.

Annie, needing to do something, tenderly straightens Grace's

blankets. It is plain to see where her leg had once been.

Robert can't look. Annie, one to face her fears, bravely

looks at it head on. She notices the I.V. Bag and rises on:

Robert is about to respond but Annie is already out the door.

We hear the O.S. DIALOGUE as Robert listens.

Annie enters first.

But Robert is ignoring her. Facing Grace, smoothing away her

hair. He's giving her the silent treatment. Annie knows this

means Robert doesn't approve of her dictatorial behavior.

Annoyed, she turns away as well.

The Nurse enters with a new bag and begins to replace the old

one as Robert backs away.

Annie, about to respond to his inappropriate politeness, is

stopped by Robert, who finally looks at her. It's a powerful

look that tells her to calm down and shut up. It's a look

that, for all of Robert's sensitivity, affects Annie. She

gets the message and stays calm.

As the nurse leaves, Annie is about to say thank you, but

Robert beats her to it.

Annie and Robert stand facing each other, when the PHONE RINGS.

Annie picks up.

INTERCUT

EXT. WOODS - DAY

LIZ HAMMOND on a cellular, walking away from the crowd.

Annie hears the name as if it's some distant echo she can't

quite identify; Liz speaks quickly as Annie watches Grace

breathing in her sleep --

That was too much information for Annie;

The Doctor pokes his head in.

He exits with the Doctor.

Liz is stopped by Annie's almost pleading tone.

They hang up. Annie takes a breath. Robert re-enters.

Beat. Silence.

Robert nods. But neither of them moves. They stand motionless

for a beat, then Annie begins to break down and eases herself

into Robert's arms.

Robert embraces her, kissing her head, with an almost fatherly

comfort. His expression tells us it's the moment he's been

expecting... and wanting. Now she'll be all right, in his arms.

Whatever distance between them, whatever problems felt

insurmountable last night on the phone, are now, for the moment

-- for Robert -- gone.

But Annie's expression tells us something different. Her

instinct to hold him was honest... but the effect isn't the

same anymore. Something doesn't feel right. Something isn't

working anymore about his comforting embrace.

INT. THE UNIVERSITY ANIMAL HOSPITAL, RECOVERY STALLS - NIGHT

A line of recovery stalls with various sick and hurt animals.

Liz, exhausted asleep, on a chair outside a stall. There's a

slight scratching sound. A hoof against the stall. It gets

louder, awakening Liz. She gets up and looks inside the

paddled stall:

Pilgrim is lying in the stall, heavily bandaged. He is waking

up. His first instinct is to kick at the paddled stall walls.

He looks at Liz, his eyes filled with madness -- enraged to

still be alive.

INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM IN FARMHOUSE - NIGHT

Annie opens the door and enters, flicking on the light.

Camera is on her back, as she places a small suitcase on the

bed and opens it. She begins her task with cool efficiency.

Opening drawers and closets, assessing what should be taken,

what isn't necessary.

Suddenly, she stops. She feels disoriented for a moment. She

can't remember the last time she was inside this room. She

takes a moment to pause and actually look around.

In the light, we now see more of Grace's inner sanctum. Horse

riding prize ribbons in various colors adorn the walls.

Books. A girl's bureau cluttered with teenage possession

ranging from childhood toys to items that suggest a reaching

towards adulthood. Annie examines some items, affectionately.

A GOOD LUCK CHARM from India sits among her things. Annie

takes it to pack in the suitcase.

She notices a framed 8X10 of Grace sitting proudly atop

Pilgrim with Judith at her heel. She then notices the edge of

another picture behind this one, in the frame. She pulls the

Pilgrim photo out to reveal: An old 8X10 of Annie hugging

Grace as a toddler. With her back to Camera, Annie remembers:

MEMORY:

INT. GRACE'S ROOM - A DAY REMEMBERED

Annie is playing with toddler Grace. Chasing her around the

room. Picking her and tossing her onto a small, toddler bed.

Blowing into her stomach. Grace is laughing uncontrollably.

END OF MEMORY

Annie slides the Pilgrim picture back into the frame, then

returns to her task of packing.

INT. GRACE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Annie enters. No one else is there. She places the suitcase

on a chair and opens it. She takes out the INDIAN LUCKY CHARM

and some horse books, and places them on her bedside table.

She takes care to prop up the Lucky Charm.

She wets a cloth with some water from a pitcher and gently

wipes Grace's sweaty brow... INSERT VISUAL FLASHBACK HERE,

instead of in Country House.

Annie then continues unpacking the suitcase. She opens

Grace's closet and sees a hospital bag filled with Grace's

clothes at the time of the accident. Annie examines them and

discovers they are hers. Annie shoves the clothes into a bag

and starts unpacking.

INT. HOSPITAL CAFETERIA - PRE-DAWN

The Clock is ticking on the wall. The cafeteria is empty

except for one tired Intern, drinking coffee on a break.

Robert and Annie are having a cup of coffee. In the silence,

they search for things to say. Until:

He rises and crosses to the self-help coffee dispenser as he

continues...

Annie just nods. She senses Robert is looking for some kind

of reassurance, but she can't give it to him. He continues;

Pause. Annie looks at her husband as he stares off to the

side, deep in his thoughts. She can sense he's sinking as he

fidgets with the napkins. She remembers:

MEMORY:

INT. A SMALLER APARTMENT, KITCHEN - A NIGHT REMEMBERED

A younger Annie stands in a bathrobe, noticeably pregnant,

cooking at a stove -- reading instructions from a propped up

cookbook. FRANK SINATRA IS BLASTING as she sings along, in

full voice, without inhibitions;

A younger Robert, wearing a suit, arrives home from work. Seeing

her, he smiles affectionately. He puts down his briefcase and

bursts into his own playful Sinatra impersonation:

Startled, Annie turns around and smiles:

She moves to him and they embrace... He wraps his arms around

her. They kiss. Annie laughs.

They turn to each other and kiss.

END OF MEMORY.

INT. HOSPITAL CAFETERIA - PRE-DAWN

Annie and Robert sit silently at the table in an empty hospital

cafeteria, a lifetime later.

INT. GRACE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAYBREAK

The room's lights are dimmed. Dawn is being to break through.

Grace, slowly, opens her eyes coming out of sedation. She

takes a moment to figure out where she is... to remember.

She uses her hands to hoist herself up, but she's unsteady

and knocks into her bedside table -- knocking the Good Luck

Charm from India off the table. It rolls under the bed, with

a water tumbler. Grace never sees the Charm.

Grace looks where her leg once was. She feels the blanket,

the empty space where her leg once was... just like her mother

did (did her father couldn't). Instead of self-pity, she's

oddly fascinated.

INT. GRACE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - LATER THAT DAY

Daylight pours in. Robert and Annie enter. Robert, loaded

with gifts, immediately crosses to Grace, on the side of her

good leg. Annie takes her position beside the lost leg.

Robert kisses his daughter;

Annie's hand finds Grace's hand, and holds one of her fingers

tightly. Grace responds by wrapping her hand around her

mother's. They exchange a look of respect and gratitude.

Annie, slightly hurt, drops it as Robert takes over:

As Robert continues talking, Annie drifts to the Nurse.

Needing to manage something, she asks:

SOME TIME LATER:

EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

A limousine drives up as the Doorman gets the car door. The

weather is slightly warmer. People's clothing looks as if

spring is coming nearer.

Annie exits first, carrying a jacket for Grace. She is

followed by Robert, who immediately turns to help Grace. We

hear her O.S.

Annie shoots him a disapproving look.

We see Grace's good leg exit first... then two crutches,

followed by... a PROSTHETIC LEG. Grace scoots into view, and

takes a breath.

INT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT - NIGHT

The three sit at a dinner table, eating dinner. Grace picks

at her food. Robert can't help staring at her. Annie eats,

watching them both.

Robert and Annie wait. She doesn't continue. She rises,

reaching for her crutches. Robert moves to help.

She exits into her room. Annie looks at him disapprovingly.

INT. ANNIE AND ROBERT'S BATHROOM/BEDROOM - NIGHT

Annie and Robert stand before their separate sinks, talking

to each other through their separate mirrors, as they wash up

for bed.

Robert shuts off his sink and dries his face, without a word.

He exits into the bedroom, and gets into bed. For a beat, he

stares up at the ceiling -- then says quite plainly.

Annie is applying moisturizer when she hears this. As it

sinks in, she doesn't like it.

INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Grace stands by her door and can hear her parents muffled,

tense voices. Annie is angry at his complacency. Robert just

wants what's best for Grace. She closes the door. Silence.

She puts her crutches against the wall and tries to walk

towards her bureau without them. It is a struggle, but she

does... almost falling, but grabbing the bureau just in time.

The 8X10 of her and Pilgrim, falls face down. She props it up

and looks at it -- focusing on her horse, then on Judith.

Suddenly, she lashes out, knocking the photograph onto the

floor...

EXT. GRACE'S PRIVATE SCHOOL - MORNING

Annie pulls up in a Range Rover and stops. Grace moves for

the door. Annie asks respectfully;

Grace doesn't even bother to answer. She manages to get onto

the pavements, then turns for her bag...

Annie notices other kids looking at Grace from behind, as they

enter the school.

Grace looks up to her mother. What is unspoken between them

is the understanding that today will be difficult and there's

nothing either one can do about it.

Grace nods and turns to the school. Annie watches her go.

INT. GRACE'S SCHOOL - MORNING

Grace makes her way through the hall. It is the first time

she has had to maneuver through a crowd. Some of the younger

children are especially unconscious. Grace sweats her way

through, trying to maintain her balance and her sanity.

As Grace slowly moves along, whatever small faith she had

that she could get through this day, begins to diminish.

INT. ANNIE'S OFFICE - DAY

Annie moves about the office, hands in pocket, in front of

her wall of windows. LUCY and her staff sitting around the

office. Annie is speaking to a YOUNG WOMAN staff member;

The Young Woman looks insulted. AN ASSISTANT comes in to give

Annie a note;

EXT. GRACE'S SCHOOL - DAY

Annie is crossing an empty school yard. Grace is sitting on

the ground, her back against a wall, her "legs" in front of

her. She has been crying. She looks up to her mother.

Annie kneels before her sympathetically brushing her hair away:

With secret delight, Grace viciously utters the word:

INT. ANNIE AND ROBERT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Annie is at her desk studying Grace's book on Horse Whisperers.

Robert is on his bed with briefs laid out before him.

INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM - SAME NIGHT

The door is closed. A SONG blares on her stereo. Grace is in

her bed watching a video of her and Pilgrim... riding at a

horse show. There's a shot of Annie standing proudly,

watching her ride. Another shot of her and Judith, both of

them on their horses, waving to camera.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME NIGHT

Grace enters.

Both Robert and Annie look up.

Robert and Annie exchange an anxious look.

EXT. DYER HORSE FARM, CONNECTICUT - DAY

It's raining. The MacLean car is parked by the barn. They

are walking towards the stables under their umbrellas as Liz

runs to greet them.

Liz stops, causing everyone to stop. She turns to face Grace,

realizing she doesn't know. She looks at Robert and Annie,

accusingly. She tries to explain:

Liz looks at Annie. Annie nods. Liz leads them on.

They reach a row of empty old stalls. They cross to one of

the stalls -- its doors are closed. Liz draws back the bolt

on top half of the door.

There is an immediate explosion of sound inside the stall,

the sound of fear, startling them. Then it's still. Liz

slowly opens the door. Grace, with the aide of her cane,

walks to the stall. She hesitates, then looks in. It takes a

moment for her eyes to grow accustomed to the dark. She sees

Pilgrim with his head down in the shadows...

He lifts his head at the sound of her voice. Grace, and the

audience, see him for the first time -- His mad eyes, his

terrible disfigurement...

Grace cries out, stepping backwards, nearly stumbling in the

mud... What is left of her horse are gone. Annie realizes

what's happened and, together with Robert, rush to her... They

too see the monster Pilgrim has become and are horrified.

Grace angrily pushes away from them and "runs" off. Robert

goes after her.

Annie is standing in the rain with Liz -- her eyes unable to

move away from the sight of Pilgrim.

Annie stands in the rain, hands in pocket, fixed on Pilgrim

and more determined than ever;

EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT - NIGHT

Alone in her study, Annie sits before her computer searching

the Internet for information on HORSES -- Veterinarian

Journals, Therapies, Accidents, Eistories... We sense she's

been at it a while...

She locates an ITEM TITLE -- HORSE WHISPERERS. Interested, she

brings it up on the screen.

INT. NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY - NIGHT

Annie sits in the huge reading room, books spread out before

her, under a green reading lamp. Her voice tells us what she's

reading:

In the books, we see pictures, lithographs, paintings and

drawings...

ANNIE'S V.O. CONTINUES OVER;

INT. PILGRIM'S STALL - NIGHT

INT. GRACE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Grace sits alone in her darkened room, staring out the window

but not looking at anything. There's a discomforting distance

in her expression.

EXT. A FAIRGROUNDS PARKING LOT, CALIFORNIA - DAY

A hot, dusty fairgrounds horse arena. The worn wooden bleachers,

crowded. Lines of cars and pick-up trucks.

One particular pick-up truck has its back door opened. A

MAN'S LEG is sticking out, putting on a pair of boots.

A moment later the Man gets out of the car. Holding a cowboy

hat, he has a certain quality, a self-respect, that men who

know themselves seem to have. TOM BOOKER.

A weathered redheaded woman named RONA -- late forties, strong,

wiry horsewoman's build -- is walking towards him.

They walk together towards the fairgrounds.

Rona lets out a hearty laugh as they enter the horse arena.

EXT. HORSE ARENA, CALIFORNIA - DAY

Inside the corral, a small black thoroughbred is being worked

by Tom. As he rides and narrates into a radio microphone to

the crowd, we sense this is a man of good humor and great

skill --  guileless, sensible, of the earth.

The crowd laughs warmly. He directs his comments to a WOMAN

wearing an expensive Ralph Lauren western outfit, standing

outside the corral...

The Woman nods. Tom turns the horse on a dime so that he

always stays facing the circling thoroughbred...

The people laugh. The Woman smiles self-consciously.

Tom gracefully moves his horse around the ring, "dancing". He

then takes up a long coiled rope and throws it so that the

coils slap against the black horse's flank, making it burst

into a lope. And again... Making the animal go from a trot to

a lope, letting it slow, then up to a lope again.

He throws the rope again and this time the transition to the

lope is a smooth one.

She nods, but he can see she's upset, feeling foolish. He

walks the horse over to her, turns off the microphone and

speaks sympathetically:

Feeling better, and not a little attracted to his heartfelt

man's man, the Woman smiles and reaches for his hand to climb

over the rail. Her horse lets her come right up to him and

stroke his neck. Tom comments;

Turning on his mike and turning back to the crowd, he says:

A Young Boy leads a mule into the ring. Tom smiles:

EXT. THE FAIRGROUNDS - LATER THAT DAY

Tom has finished his "show." People are shaking his hand,

thanking him, as he walks away from the corral, towards a

trailer.

The Woman in the Ralph Lauren approaches:

He faces the Woman:

The Woman is flirting. Tom shrugs, uncomfortably;

He leaves her, entering the trailer.

INT. RONA'S TRAILER - NIGHT

A small, well-used trailer. Tom and Rona are finishing dinner

like comfortable old friends. Rona rises, taking the plates

into the kitchen and starts rinsing them:

He nods but doesn't move. He just looks at Rona and smiles.

She's a good woman. But Tom hopes she doesn't want anymore

than what they have together. Rona notices him looking and

smiles:

She chuckles, shuts the water off and crosses back to him,

sitting beside him.

She starts unbuttoning his shirt.

Tom smiles as Rona leans in. They kiss.

INT. ANNIE'S OFFICE, N.Y.C. - MORNING

Annie is looking over a magazine cover with Lucy and her staffers.

She is unhappy.

Some general whines and groans as her assistant hands her a

note.

She waits for them to leave as she sits before the phone. One

of her lines is lit:

EXT. A ROADSIDE SERVICE STATION SOMEWHERE IN UTAH - DAY

An endless sky. An empty ribbon of two-lane highway in Utah.

A small roadside station. Tom's pick-up truck, his horse

trailer hitched to it, getting gas.

Tom is on the pay phone. We hear Annie's voice:

INTERCUT ANNIE in her office:

Tom, sensing her turmoil, listening compassionately.

Annie is taken aback. Tom feels badly.

He hangs up before Annie can continue.

INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Annie reaches for Grace's bedroom door, then pauses. She

realizes she should knock. She does and whispers:

Annie slowly opens the door. She finds Grace's bed empty. She

looks over to the window to find Grace sitting in a chair, in

the dark, looking out the window.

Not looking up, Grace speaks in a hollow voice.

Beat.

What frightens Annie most is the calm and apathy in Grace's

voice. She's surrendering... Annie, for the first time in a

long time, feels she's losing control.

INT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT - NIGHT

Annie sits alone at the kitchen table, nursing a glass of

wine.

Robert enters and sits opposite her, wearing a tuxedo -- his

tie and collar undone.

He drinks Annie's wine as she looks at him.

Robert nods. Accepting. Silence. Annie sips her wine. Then:

His arm accidentally spills the wine.

As he bends down to wipe it up with a napkin, Annie watches

Robert clean the spill. Something about his movements, his

posture -- a sense of weakness, of surrendering, of not having

the inclination to fight, of just accepting and smoothing

over the rough sports -- strikes her hard. Annie realizes the

love she feels for Robert isn't fading. It's gone.

He finishes cleaning and sits.

Robert looks at her and realizes it's a bad idea. He nods,

again, getting the message. Silence. In that silence, Annie

looks at him... and makes a decision:

Robert is confused... and a little worried.

Beat. Robert fears this is about the marriage. Yet --

Beat. Robert just stares at her. He looks concerned... almost

worried. Annie gets uncomfortable.

It is very difficult for Robert to say;

He stops. Annie knows where he headed and prays to God he

doesn't continue. He doesn't. A thick silence hangs between

them.

Robert can feel the strength of her will. He can find no way

around it.

At some moment, they realize Grace is standing at the entrance

to the kitchen. They are surprised.

Annie lowers her head. Robert stares at Grace as she walks to

him.

Grace stands next to Robert. He holds her hands. Annie looks

at him, without sympathy. Robert looks back. In his face is

the total acceptance of what must be. As well as the sadness

of it's inevitability. He looks back at his daughter, whose

eyes have never left him.

EXT. JOAN DYER STABLE - DAY

Pilgrim is being loaded into the trailer by four strong stable

men, violently kicking and pulling all the way.

Annie watches with anxiety -- an almost giddy Liz by her side.

In the back seat of ANNIE'S SUBURBAN sits Grace -- her back to

the action. Hearing Pilgrim's struggle. Putting her walkman

on her ears and raising the volume... We hear --

GRACE'S MUSIC, ON THE SOUNDTRACK, bringing us to:

EXT. A HIGHWAY, IN PENNSYLVANIA - DAY

Annie's Suburban drives along Route 80, pulling the horse

trailer behind.

INT. SUBURBAN - DAY

Grace, in the back seat, wearing her headphones, listening to

her music (maybe LIZ PHAIR OR HOLLY COLE). Detached. Non-

committal. As trucks pass by, their time slapping the pavement,

she reacts and turns to the other window.

Annie, in sunglasses, shifts her attention between the road

and her rear-view mirror -- checking on Grace.

EXT. HIGHWAY IN - EARLY MORNING

The Suburban drives as the sun begins to set.

EXT. MOTEL IN OHIO - NIGHT

The Suburban and Horse Trailer are parked in the lot.

INT. MOTEL ROOM, OHIO - NIGHT

A small furnished motel room with two twin beds.

Grace sits up in bed watching TV, with no expression. A sitcom

with canned laughter serves as a hypnotic drug.

Annie enters from the bathroom, after showering, drying her

hair. Grace doesn't bother to look up.

She begins moving off the bed.

Annie realizes she may have pushed too hard, but she also

realizes there's no talking to Grace now. So, she achieves

her goal --

Grace hobbles off the bed, enters the bathroom and shuts the

door.

INT. MOTEL ROOM IN OHIO - NIGHT

The lights are off. Annie lays in bed, wide awake. It is the

middle of the night.

Grace, asleep in the other bed, begins whimpering. She's

having a bad dream. Annie rises -- considering whether or not

to intercede... Finally, Grace begins to cry out... softly at

first, but with increasing intensity until she awakens in

fear... Annie appears right by her side.

Shaken, Grace cannot fight how much she needs her mother at

that moment. She wraps her arms around her, tightly, and tries

to catch her breath.

EXT. ANOTHER ROAD, MID-WEST - DAY

The Suburban continues its journey.

Once again -- Annie, in the front, and Grace, in the rear,

drive without a word between them.

INT. SUBURBAN - DAY

Grace and Annie occupy their same positions. Annie is on the

car phone with her office.

Annie continues O.S. when we hear a shifting, a rocking in

the trailer behind them. As if Pilgrim made a sudden move.

Grace quickly turns her head. Annie looks in the rear view at

Grace.

Annie hangs up and smiles at Grace through the mirror. Grace

reaches for her walkman and headphones. Annie offers;

Grace lowers one side of her headphones;

Grace shrugs. Annie shrugs it off as well. Grace replaces the

headphone. Annie turns on the radio -- nothing but country or

gospel or religious talk shows... She shuts it off. Frustrated,

Annie looks up ahead and sees:

A TRUCK STOP DINER

Annie yells to be heard through the headphones;

Annoyed, Annie pulls onto the gravel and stops, talking to

herself --

She exits the car, banging the door. As she walks acrund the

car to help Grace, she talks to herself in a sarcastic whisper:

She opens Grace's door. Grace senses her mother's anger.

INT. TRUCK STOP DINER - DAY

Annie and Grace enter. They look around:

Formica floors, truckers in caps and beer bellies stuffed

into booths or at the counter. There is not a single space

available.

Annie and Grace stand near the entrance. Another Trucker

enters and they step aside, huddled together in this foreign

land.

INT. MOTEL IN IOWA - NIGHT

Grace and Annie enter the room to find A DOUBLE BED instead

of two twins. Neither comments.

Annie exits O.S., carrying the bags inside, as she says:

Silence. Annie exits past her to the car.

LATER

Grace is asleep in her twin bed. Once again, Annie is wide

awake. The clock reads: 4:55 AM. But Annie can not sleep.

Camera moves away from Annie, past her side of the bed, to

the other side of the room.

WE SEE THE SHADOW OF A WOMAN coming towards the bed. She

comes in camera angle and we follow to her back to the bed,

which has now transformed into --

A BED FROM THE PAST, IN WHICH A TEN-YEAR-OLD ANNIE IS

SLEEPING WITH HER YOUNGER BROTHER GEORGE.

WE ARE IN MEMORY.

The Woman gently shakes little Annie awaken.

The little girl, with sleep in her eyes, turns and sees her.

END OF MEMORY.

Annie, in present time next to Grace, thinks of this as she

stays awake. Putting her jogging parka on over her nightgown,

she goes outside.

EXT. IOWA MOTEL - NIGHT

She crosses the motel parking lot to the horse trailer. She

looks in through the siding at Pilgrim, checking on him. She

sees he is caught his halter on the side of the van. She

crosses to the trailer door, hesitates, then opens it.

Pilgrim looks at her. Gathering her courage, she climbs

inside. He is still, looking at her. She carefully frees his

halter. And suddenly he bares his teeth, biting at her. She

stumbles back out of the trailer, slamming the door shut. She

stands leaning against the trailer -- wondering if she's out

of her mind for attempting this.

EXT. IOWA MOTEL - LATER THAT SAME MORNING

Annie is returning from her jog, sweating. As she crosses to

her motel room, she stops by the window, looking in to see:

Grace, on the floor, straining to do her exercises.

Annie fills with compassion for her girl -- reminded of the

struggle she faces everyday.

EXT. THE BADLANDS - DAY

In the distance, the Suburban and horse trailer look like a

dot on the horizon, moving across the Badlands.

INT. THE SUBURBAN - ANOTHER TIME, DUSK

Grace leans against the window in the back, in one of her

darker moods. Annie switches radio stations, from Bible

thumping to Farm reports. She shuts it off. Silence.

She sees a ROAD SIGH: "LITTLE BIGHORN NATIONAL MONUMENT".

Grace reads the sign.

Annie's comic mimicking, throws Grace off center.

Annie turns off onto the exit. They drive by a massive casino

-- it's neon sign flickering. They drive up a hill past a cafe,

two Indians in high crowned Cowboy hats standing outside of

the cafe. She drives up a hill towards the parking lot of the

Monument...

Annie laughs, taking it as a joke. Grace almost smiles.

But, Annie drives up to sign only to find a CLOSED SIGN. The

park was closed at six. Annie stops the car. She's hit a

brick wall once more. Silence. Finally, Grace speaks with her

usual sarcasm;

Beat. Annie's patience snaps;

Ignoring her, Grace edges to the passenger side and exits the

car. Annie gets out of the driver's side and walks around as

she speaks:

She begins to turn away. Annie grabs her arm.

Annie is choked with fury. She doesn't know whether to

scream, cry or strangle Grace. She turns away and begins

walking quickly, blindly, up past a grove of trees. She comes

to a CEMETERY enclosed by a black railing. At the crest of

the hill there's a stone monument "The Little Bighorn

Cemetery."

In the growing darkness, she sees, scattered on the hillsides

below her, white tombstones. A place of sorrow. A cool breeze

ruffles her coat and she sticks her hands in her pockets.

Frustrated, alone, at a complete loss as to what to do, what

action to take -- Annie, for the first time in frozen,

standing still -- and with her, comes a rush of emotion.

She sits with her back against the monument and begins to

weep. For Grace, for Robert, herself, for the tombstones, for

everyone.

A FLASHLIGHT shines on her face. It is a PARK RANGER.

Annie realizes she left Grace alone as it got darker.

Annie rises and is escorted back to the Suburban by the

Ranger. She sees:

Grace is sitting in the front seat now, waiting for her --

like a little girl lost.

INT. SUBURBAN - CONTINUOUS

Annie gets into the driver's seat. Buckles up. Grace holds

back tears.

Annie reaches into the back seat and pulls a blanket out,

handing it to Grace, making sure it covers her. Grace turns

towards the window and closes her eyes. Annie starts the car.

EXT. MONTANA, BACK ROAD - MORNING

C.U. on Pilgrim's head in the trailer as we PULL BACK to

reveal the Suburban coming down an empty, seemingly infinite

stretch of two-lane road in Montana.

INT. SUBURBAN - MORNING

Annie and Grace, both in front seats, eating doughnuts and

coffee. They stop.

POV -- Through the windshield is an endless sky and a rolling

sea of land.

Their Suburban is the only vehicle on what seems like miles

of road. Annie sighs and puts the Suburban in drive.

EXT. PETERSON'S MOTEL & STABLES, RED FORK MONTANA - DAY

The Suburban and the horse trailer, pulls into Peterson's -- a

collection of motel cottage adjacent to an expanse of land

that includes stable, corral, a main house and various riding

trails into the mountains.

Mr. Peterson runs out from the main house to greet Annie as

she gets out of the car.

INT. SUBURBAN, ON ANOTHER MONTANA BACK ROAD - LATER THAT DAY

Annie, showered and changed, is trying to follow Mr.

Peterson's directions to Tom's ranch -- written on Peterson

motel stationary. She is lost once again.

She stops the Suburban (no longer carrying the trailer).

EXT. ANOTHER MONTANA BACK ROAD - CONTINUOUS

From outside the Suburban, we see, but cannot hear, Annie

hitting the steering and cursing in frustration.

INT. SUBURBAN - CONTINUOUS

Annie, panting, looks ahead and sees nothing but empty space,

above and below -- as if the earth and sky met with nothing in

between.

She sighs and starts the car again. As she moves forward, she

senses an almost indistinguishable rise in the road -- as we

follow her POV up the road through the windshield to reveal:

POV -- A BREATHTAKING VALLEY just beyond the rise, hidden

from view only a few yards before. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE RANCH

sits nestled in the valley, a few miles away. Annie is

impressed.

EXT. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE RANGE - DAY

Men are working in the corral, saddle horses standing nearby,

trying to get a sick calf to suckle a cow. One of the men is

Tom Booker, working along side his brother FRANK, and his

nephew, JOE. Frank is a good man -- solid work ethic,

Christian fearing, wry sense of humor. With the build of a

football player, his strength never overwhelms his boyish,

good-natured heart. Joe is eleven, wearing his cowboy hat

like a badge of honor. The three men seem as inseparable to

each other, as they are to the land. As they work:

Tom and Frank don't say anything. Just nod, knowingly.

Frank laughs. Joe smirks as Tom messes his hat up. There's the

sound of a car. They turn.

The Suburban is coming over the ridge, heading down the

driveway in a cloud of dust.

Frank shakes his head. As the Suburban slows down, Tom

recognizes the driver.

Annie, out of her element, hiding behind sunglasses, gets out

as Tom approaches her by himself. Annie girds herself for the

confrontation.

She extends her hand. TOM shakes it, nodding, staring at her

curiously.

She nods. Tom cannot help be impressed by her guts and fortitude.

Camera cuts away for a moment to a window in the ranch house,

through which DIANE -- Frank's fiery, loyal pioneer wife --

looks at the duo with suspicion.

Tom tries to hide a smile of respect. Annie, thinking she may

have him, starts backing away towards her car -- as one would

a dangerous animal they think they might have tamed...

She gets into the Suburban. Tom watches her drive off.

EXT. ANNIE AND GRACE'S COTTAGE - DAY

Tom walks up some wooden steps to a door and knocks. He hears

a TV on inside. And Grace's Voice:

He hears Annie's muffled reply from O.S. He hears some banging

as Grace fumbles for her crutch and comes to the door. She

opens it only so far as to reveal her upper body:

Grace hops to the side as Tom walks by her, into the room.

Grace is closing the door as he turns to see, for the first

time, that Grace is one leg.

Grace hops back to the bed in front of the TV. Tom nods and

puts his hat down -- noticing the prosthetic leaning against

the window, near her bed. He hears Annie on the phone and

looks to the other room, the door ajar -- seeing only her

legs, seated on the edge of her bed, as she talks. Her foot

taps impatiently.

Grace, rudely nods, still looking at the TV.

Beat. Tom doesn't like her manner, but can easily see through

it. He sits.

Tom just sort of nods. A beat or two later, Annie enters.

Tom sees Grace turn away, just as Annie enters. He takes a

moment. He could say no right there, but something stops him.

Grace keeps looking at the TV. No reply. Tom is half way out

the door when he says to Annie -- making sure Grace can hear --

He disappears. Annie gives Grace a final look and exits, closing the door.

Alone, Grace flings her body across the bed, reaching for her

prosthetic -- putting it on feverishly. She is completely

intrigued by Tom.

EXT. PETERSON'S STABLES - DAY

Tom stands alone at the stable. Opening the bottom door,

ducking under the stall, he goes inside.

Walking towards him, Tom raises his hand, showing Pilgrim a

sign of respect, of trust... He quietly makes his way along

Pilgrim's side, along his flank, prompting Pilgrim to move

out from the shadows, into the light. Tom moves to look at

him. And Pilgrim suddenly kicks out at him. Tom, not cowed,

stands his ground. He bends, looking at Pilgrim's withered

legs. He looks up at his scarred head. He looks into the

pools of the horse's tortured eyes. Pilgrim stands still --

allowing Tom this brief intimacy.

As Grace walks towards the stable, she realizes that the door

is open and Tom must be inside. She is amazed.

Annie, appearing behind her, is also impressed.

Tom exits the stable and sees them, as he closes the doors.

He walks straight towards them -- veering more to Grace. He

stops in front of her and they look into each other's eyes --

in a way that reminds us of how Tom looked at Pilgrim.

Except, Grace is made even more uncomfortable by the intimacy.

She turns away and walks to the corral, to lean on a post --

as if she doesn't care. Tom turns to Annie.

He looks at Annie. Annie has no more words -- just an ever-

present pleading in her face.

Tom watches as Grace makes a small, naked movement -- putting

her hand on her cheek, like a hurt child.

He can't help but see these three being connected by one wound.

Grace stiffens.

Grace reacts anew to Tom's remark. She likes her mother being

dis-empowered. Annie keenly understands the importance of Tom

putting it this way to Grace. Grace has all eyes on her --

just what she wants. All waiting for her response. She turns

away, flicks her head and says:

Annie smiles in relief. But Tom isn't satisfied.

He starts walking away. Annie doesn't know what to do. Grace

mumbles.

Tom keeps walking out... Grace says it louder.

Tom stops and looks at her. Annie holds her breath.

INT. THE RANCH HOUSE, DOUBLE DIVIDE - NIGHT

Frank, Tom, Joe and TOM TWIN BOYS, 6 years old, sit at a dining

table eating dinner, as Diane serves. We parachute into the

middle of the conversation:

Tom hides a grin -- he knows Frank into teasing her now.

Everyone eats. Beat.

Frank nods. Silence again. Everyone eats. Beat.

Tom and Frank chuckle. Diane smiles -- in on the joke with

them. The children are curiously confused.

INT. ANNIE AND GRACE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Camera moves to reveal Annie on the phone in front of her

computer and fax...  plugging in extension cords as she talks:

Grace sits alone in the living room. Watching TV, but anxious

and disturbed about what she's committed herself to.

INT. DOUBLE DIVIDE KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Diane is in her bathrobe doing bills at the kitchen table, as

she listens to a BOOK OF TAPE. Her hand on her forehead, her

other hand writing. Tom enters to take his hat off the

sideboard. He moves to the table and reaches over for a

cookie from a plate of cookies. Without looking up, Diane

slaps his hand. Tom then pours himself a cup of coffee... then

swiftly sneaks his hand back and grabs a cookie. Diane smiles.

Tom exits.

It is only then that Diane looks up after him.

INT. UPPER FLOOR OF RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

Camera follows Tom towards his bedroom --  passing the others.

Perhaps we see Frank sprawled out asleep already in his

underwear. We might see the Twins in their bunks. One of the

Twins' lower torso is laying outside of the blanket. He

casually flips the blanket over the kid's bare feet and

continues to his room.

INT. TOM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Tom enters and closes the door. Turns on a stereo which plays

a cello piece by Yo-Yo Ma. Books fills his room. He sits at

his desk, puts on eye glasses and looks through some paperwork.

Suddenly he stops, looking over the paperwork, into space. A

thought passes by. We don't know what.

EXT. THE RANCH, A CORRAL - DAYBREAK

First light of day. Pilgrim stands stock still in the middle

of the corral. Tom, motionless, is crouched on his haunches

in the corral -- watching him.

TOM'S POV: As Pilgrim moves, he can see that the horse is

stove up.

He softly tosses a handful of dirt at Pilgrim's withered

legs... Pilgrim, sensitive to the slightest provocation,

bucks, wheeling away from him. Then stops. Tom sits on his

haunches again... and watches him.

Frank appears, exiting from the barn (perhaps).

Tom leaves Pilgrim, hooking up with Frank -- the two brothers

go off, discussing the ranch work that is ahead of them.

EXT. THE RANCH - ANOTHER DAY

Annie and Grace arrive in the Suburban. They exit. As they

head towards the ranch, they see in the distance:

Pilgrim standing along the fence of a round pen. Tom stands

in the pen, holding a rope, looking at Pilgrim.

EXT. THE ROUND PEN - DAY

Tom stands in the pen with Pilgrim. He looks to see Annie and

Grace approaching but makes no acknowledgement. He turns his

focus back to Pilgrim.

Annie and Grace appear. Grace takes a position (that is to

become her regular spot) a distance away from the pen. Annie

moves in closer, beside SMOKEY (a ranch hand) with one leg

up on the pen fence.

He and Annie watch as Tom stands before Pilgrim -- turning

sideways... then standing...

Smokey doesn't respond -- how it's going is exactly how it

looks. Tom takes a few steps, stops and stands still again. We

sense the process is long and requires great patience.

EXT. ROUND PEN - DAY

Two hours later. Grace is in the same spot. Smokey is gone,

doing his work. Annie has taken a different position, looking

over SEVERAL PAGES OF FAXES on her lap.

Tom is still standing in the pen trying to get Pilgrim's eyes.

Joe has joined the proceedings, sitting on the pen rail.

Tom deftly throws a hoolihan, gently lassoing Pilgrim around

the neck. And Pilgrim, at the touch of the rope, crazed,

resists, pulling back, striking at the rope... The rope

cutting into Tom's hands. Tom gives him some slack, giving

his head, letting him relax... then gently heads him by the

rope, walking him around the pen, getting his feet to moving.

Grace's eyes never leave Tom.

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

Tom, off in the distance -- against a sky that seems to be

touching the land -- is riding along a creek. Closer up, we

see he's rustling the bushes with a stick. Some stray cows

run out of the bushes. Tom races after them. His horse

shepherds the cow across the creek and up a hillside.

At the top of the hill, with the ranch spread out endlessly

before him, Tom sees Frank on his horse, chasing strays. Tom

whistles. Frank waves back. In the near distance, a pickup

truck is parked on the range.

Joe and the TWINS are throwing food pellets out of the back

of the truck. Cattle come from across the range for the food.

What begins as a handful of cows becomes dozens, then

hundreds -- the truck virtually disappearing among them.

Tom stops for a moment to look out at his ranch. Far off in

the distance, he sees Annie's Suburban coming along the road

to the ranch. He watches as Annie's distant figure gets out

of the car with Grace. Annie instinctively turns and looks

across the land. Even though there is such a distance,

there's a sense Tom and Annie are looking at each other.

Tom senses Joe driving Frank's truck, slowly moving off the

range -- the Twins in the back, the cattle following. Tom sits

on his horse atop the hill.

EXT. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE - ANOTHER DAY

Pilgrim, his scarred head above water, legs moving in odd

sycopation, swimming. We discover he is in a pond, tethered

to a pole... Except for the sound of his legs in the water,

everything is quiet and focused on Pilgrim.

SMOKEY, holds the pole, walking on the outside of the pond,

leading Pilgrim back and forth as he swims. Tom, crouched by

the pond, silently concentrating on Pilgrim...

Grace watches, off by herself... Annie stands beside Joe. She

can't help but be intrigued by the sight. She asks Joe;

Joe doesn't answer her. Grace likes that. Annie, frustrated,

feels she has the right to simple shout out to Tom.

Tom pays her no mind -- concentrating on Pilgrim.

Suddenly, Annie's CELL PHONE rings, jarring the proceedings.

Tom turns to Annie. She hides her embarrassment by answering

it, walking away. Tom gives her a look. Grace is loving this.

Tom turns back to Pilgrim. After a few moments --

Tom, taking the rope tether, unhooks it from the pole. He

starts to lead Pilgrim out of the water. Pilgrim, fearful,

fights him. He rears, splashing Tom, not wanting to come out

of the water. Grace is worried. She looks to Joe and sees he

is concerned too, though he stands quietly.

Annie hears the commotion from where she stands and finishes

her call to return to the pond.

Tom enters the pond, waist deep in water, trying to grab

Pilgrim's rope. Pilgrim rises up, rearing at him. Joe and

Smokey, sensing danger, come closer to the pond. Annie

appears beside Grace and watches as Tom reaches for the rope

again. Pilgrim rears again. Tom stumbles backwards from his

hooves. Annie gasps. Grace turns to walk away from the pond.

She can't watch -- it brings back too much. But as she does,

she is stopped by the sight of --

Tom, righting himself, unphased, calmly walks back to Pilgrim.

The horse, baffled by this man's lack of fear, lets him take

the rope and walk him out of the pond.

Grace can't help but be impressed. Joe nods. Annie is shaken.

As Tom leads Pilgrim out, the horse suddenly whirls, bolting,

knocking Tom down...

Pilgrim runs off, pulling the wet rope behind him. Joe runs

over and grabs for the rope.

Joe obeys. Pilgrim runs past the corral and down into a hill

out onto a pasture, He keeps on running into the distance --

running across the pasture, not knowing where he is going...

Tom, arms folded across his chest, watches him run. A

concerned Annie approaches.

Tom doesn't respond. He walks off down the hill out onto the

pasture, stops, arms folded and watches Pilgrim. Annie turns

when she hears Smokey, who appears behind her:

Confused, Pilgrim stops running and walks, in no particular

direction.

Smokey ambles off and she turns back to see Tom crouching on

his haunches, sitting in the grass, just waiting. Pilgrim

walks back towards the ranch, stops a distance from Tom,

looks at him... Annie, needing to know exactly what's going

on, crosses down the hill to him.

Tom continues watching Pilgrim. Annie looks at him, sitting

there motionless and feels like an idiot. Clearly she doesn't

understand all this and clearly no one thinks this is the

time to explain to her.

Without looking at her, Tom just nods. Annie, awkwardly,

walks back up the hill to where Grace is...

ON THE GRASSY HILLSIDE, Grace is watching the scene by herself

as Joe appears, staring at her leg... It makes her uncomfortable.

She turns to him with a curt, impatient tone;

Their eyes meet. Joe is so guileless, Grace is taken off guard

when he asks in such a compassionate voice;

Grace tries to think of an answer -- and of how to say it:

Her gentle delivery makes him smile. She smiles, then:

He tips his hat down as he looks out to Pilgrim with respect;

Grace is uncomfortable again. She looks away, just struggling.

Joe senses she's done talking;

He tips his hat and walks off, passing Annie as she arrives.

Grace hesitates. Then mother and daughter take one more look --

POV -- Pilgrim standing in the pasture with Tom crouching in

the grass waiting for him.

EXT. PASTURE - LATER THAT DAY

Tom is still sitting in the grass, just where we left him --

waiting patiently. Pilgrim is still out in the pasture.

EXT. PASTURE - STILL LATER THAT DAY

Afternoon shadows cross the ranch. Tom is in the exact same

spot and position. Pilgrim is somewhat closer -- but still at

a distance -- watching him.

Frank rides back from work. As he passes Tom, the two nod as

if nothing usually is going on. Frank rides up to the barn.

INT. PETERSON'S MOTEL -

Grace is flicking the television -- repeating the only three

channels over and over...

Annie works at her computer, surrounded by work. She notices

the time, gets a thought and dials the phone...

She hangs up, pauses, then speaks to the window out loud enough

for Grace to hear --

Annie looks at her as if to say the last thing I need to know is

a lesson on the local lingo...

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE RANCH - DUSK

The sky is changing colors, the temperature has dropped. Tom

is still sitting in the grass, although someone has brought

him a blanket for his shoulders. Pilgrim is in the pasture,

but now -- he too is motionless, looking back at Tom.

The sound of a car makes Tom turn to see Annie driving up.

She gets out, stands by the car with a proprietary air,

watching Tom and Pilgrim. Grace remains in the car. There's a

sound. She turns to see Diane coming out of the house...

Diane, knowing full well Tom ain't in a talking mood, hands

her a cup...

She's gone. Annie grimaces, then crosses the hillside to

where Tom is squatting down. She appears to his side and,

without speaking, tries to indicates she has his coffee by

leaning it toward him. Tom sees her and accepts it with a

grateful nod. Annie waits. Nothing happens. Feeling foolish,

she begins to walk back.

At some point, she turns to see Pilgrim moving across the

pasture toward Tom. He stops in front of him, just a few feet

away. Tom says something to him. Annie is intrigued -- and she

knows enough to stay quiet now. She watches Pilgrim walk over

to him. She watches as Tom gets up and pats Pilgrim's scarred

head. In spite of herself, Annie is somewhat moved by this act.

Only we see Grace, peering out from the car, seeing this act

of communion as well. Only we see her reaction to it.

As Tom turns and walks back to the ranch, Pilgrim follows him.

As he passes Annie, all he says is...

As he moves past her, Annie responds;

Tom keeps heading for the barn as he suggests, without turning

back;

Standing there, Annie has the impulse to respond to this

suggestion, but has no idea what to say and saying it wouldn't

make much sense since Tom is already out of ear shot.

Diane appears from the house and calls out:

Annie looks up to the alien sky and realizes she's right. She

looks to Grace, who doesn't seem to oppose the idea.

INT. RANCH HOUSE/KITCHEN - NIGHT

Everyone sits around the kitchen table. Joe, still wearing

his hat, eyes Annie and Grace with acute curiosity.

Joe obeys. Diane puts the last of the serving plates on the

table -- pork chops, potatoes, gravy, peas, bread... And a big

bowl of mixed salad. The boy can't help eyeing how the

"vegetarians" will act.

Annie and Grace eye the food. Annie reaches out for a serving

ladle, picking up Grace's plate to serve her as Grace reaches

for a piece of bread, when:

Annie and Grace freeze as Frank continues his prayer -- they

notice everyone's head bowed slightly.

Everyone begins eating. Annie and Grace breath a sigh of relief.

Silence. Utensils hitting plates, the only sound.

Beat. Annie and Grace listen...

Silence... Eating... Annie tries her hand at conversation:

Diane and Tom react accordingly; Diane hiding her annoyance,

Tom hiding his surprise and pleasure.

Everyone waits on Annie's answer as she considers this.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Grace is on the phone with Robert. Annie is packing things

up. Grace is telling him about the day;

Annie reacts to this.

INTERCUT

INT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT - NIGHT

Robert is burning the midnight oil in the study with files

all around him.

Grace exits into the bathroom. Annie talks softly;

Robert didn't mean to validate his separation from them.

Beat. Annie knows Robert needed an invitation from her. But

she can't do it. Robert tries again.

Awkwardly, they hang up. Grace exits the bathroom.

Grace looks at her disapprovingly as she passes to go to the

bathroom. Annie registers this.

INT. RANCH HOUSE - LATE DAY

Diane is washing windows while listening to an audio book on

her tape player. Through the windows, she sees:

Joe and the Twins helping Annie and Grace move into the Creek

House.

Diane has conflicting feelings about this. She continues her

work.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - LATE DAY

VARIOUS SHOTS of ANNIE CONNECTING HERSELF BACK TO THE REST OF

THE WORLD, BY PLUGGING IN HER COMPUTER, FAX, ETC...

Grace is in the other room, as she was in the motel. Alone.

With no television, she is just listening to her music laying

on the couch. The two women remain separate no matter where

they are.

But we see a small difference. Grace rises and walks to the

window. She looks out;

POV: She sees people working about the ranch. Maybe Joe is

among them -- riding his horse as he works. Or maybe it's

just a vision of people with tasks to complete -- who do so

with pride, discipline and clarity.

Grace looks out the window longingly.

EXT. THE RANCH - ANOTHER DAY

A cloud of dust. A dozen or so horses are running in an arena

by the stables. Tom is riding among them, holding a long stick

with an orange flag at the end of it, waving it at the young

horses, making them run away from him. The colts stay close

together. One of the horses, PILGRIM, stays at a distance, off

to himself.

Grace watches from along the railing. She alternates her

attention from the horses... to Tom.

He cracks the flag, the horses move together...

C.U. on GRACE, who clearly feels the same way... but wants

desperately not to. She watches him ride off towards Pilgrim

who has stopped like all the others at the far end of the

ring. He stands by himself, tossing his head, snorting, not

wanting to be around other horses. Tom cracks the flag,

keeping them moving. Pilgrim does his own private dance.

Tom rides by Grace and hands her the stick;

Grace stiffens. She doesn't want to, but she's afraid to say

"No" to Tom. He just insists by tossing it to her...

She's forced to catch it. He turns and rides away, chasing

down Pilgrim, trying to edge him toward the herd. For a

moment, he has him breaking to the left with the horses. But

as soon as he's clear of Tom, he separates himself and comes

to stop on his own.

Tom rides back to Grace, taking back the flag.

As he says this, he flashes a small, reassuring smile and a

little wink. Grace melts just a little. As he rides away.

Annie appears, having come from the Creek House. She calls:

Grace frowns a little -- her mother's "perfect timing." Annie

approaches the arena, watching Tom riding. As he passes her;

Annie notices how he says her name.

He flashes a smile in her direction and Annie's expression

comically matches her daughter's reaction. She quickly covers

it, however. Her eyes follow him as he glides around the

arena. It's like watching a great ballet -- his control of the

horses, his effortlessness, his grace, his strength... She

smiles to herself in appreciation. Then catches herself:

Tom approaches as he overhears Grace respond;

He's getting a clearer view of their relationship.

Tom chuckles.

Annie smiles. She turns to Grace, questioningly. Grace says

matter-of-factly, to prove her point.

Tom squints. Annie shrugs and nods.

As Grace and Annie walk to the car, Tom says:

They continue walking as Grace smiles, enjoying being singled

out for his joke. Annie responds, almost flirtatiously.

Tom tips his hat and rides away... Annie smiles and nods...

Grace doesn't like their sudden familiarity. Or her mother's

coy manner. As they enter the Suburban, Grace asks point blank;

Annie is caught off guard.

Tom, riding in the arena, catches himself looking after them...

then goes riding after Pilgrim.

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

The air smells of scorched flesh. There is nothing but NOISE.

Calves, separated from their mothers, "cry." They are moved

out through a series of connected pens into a narrow chute,

and then one by one into a holding pen. They're clamped and

lowered sideways onto a table and given a shot, a yellow

insect tag in one ear, branded, then sent back to their

mother's. The bulls, in a pen by themselves, stand haughty,

paying no attention. Frank helps "doctor" the calves. Joe

brands.

Annie and Grace are standing by the railing, watching with a

mixture of fascination and disgust.

Tom moves in the feeder pen, waist deep in calves, moving them

through the chute. He looks to Annie.

It isn't a question.

Annie and Grace realize they have no choice.

-- WHAT FOLLOWS IS A SEQUENCE OF SCENES SHOWING ANNIE AND

GRACE PARTICIPATING IN THE BRANDING. AND HOW THEY GRADUALLY

COME TO LOSE THEMSELVES IN THE EXPERIENCE.

SEQUENCES WILL INCLUDE:

-- HANK, A RANCH HEAD, HELPING ANNIE INTO THE CHUTE... ANNIE

GETTING KICKED BY A CALF.

-- GRACE BEING SHOWN HOW TO HOLD THE BRANDING IRON.

-- HANK TEACHING ANNIE HOW TO SAY "HYAH!!"...

-- TOM IN THE HOLDING PEN WITH HIS ARMS AROUND GRACE, SHOWING

HER HOW TO APPLY THE BRAND... GRACE, A LITTLE FRIGHTENED OF THE

BRAND, IS IN HEAVEN IN TOM'S ARMS...

-- ANNIE IS STILL TRYING TO SAY "HYAH"!! WITH THE PROPER FORCE.

SHE CLAPS HER HANDS, PUSHING THE CALVES ALONG, KNEE DEEP IN

COW SHIT.

-- GRACE CLOSES HER EYES AND THE IRON TOUCHES THE CALF'S HIDE.

Grace smiles proudly.

Grace knows him well enough to know;

Grace smiles.

-- Annie turns and, not looking where she's doing, trips over

a calf, falling down. And calves, coming down the chute,

start to run towards her. Suddenly, Tom grabs her by the leg

and pulls her to safety. He helps her up and dusts her off.

Tom laughs. She takes a big breath.

EXT. THE RANCH - LATE AFTERNOON

The ranch is colored in amber light.

Near the house, two long tables pushed together to make one

long one... A gentle breeze ruffles the tablecloth. Everyone

is seated for a meal. We hear laughter and conversation... We

parachute into the middle of the moments;

-- Hank helping with his wife get to their three children to

sit still for dinner...

-- Diane organizing the women and their various plates of side

dishes...

-- The Ranch Hand piling up their plates and kidding each

other...

-- Joe is instructing Grace on the various sauces for the

ribs. The Twins are making fun of him behind his back.

-- Tom and Smokey are barbecuing, the last one to sit.

-- Frank assists his frail mother, ELLEN BOOKER, at the table,

filling her plate with all the things she can't reach for.

The faces are beautiful. Laughing. Eating. Everyone is tanned

and exhausted after a long day, but filled with life and

eager to live it. The tables are covered with heavy food.

The communion at this table is as much a part of the ritual

as the branding itself...

Annie and Grace look different to us. Tanned from the sun,

their bodies sore -- they feel softened, yet more vital. As if

the artifice had been worn off... the armor of urban life. As

the table thrives with conversations, we focus on:

Annie and Ellen Booker. Annie looks calmer than we've seen

her -- and more naturally beautiful. She is seated beside

Ellen Booker. We sense they have been talking for a while.

Annie is so sincerely interested in listening to her, she's

hardly touched her own plate...

We see Tom a few places down and across from Annie and his

mother -- but fully aware of their conversation.

She motions proudly to Tom who looks up. Annie smiles to him.

He looks to her with gratitude for the respect she's showing

his mother.

Tom listens to this.

She looks to Tom and he can sense a sadness around this in her

eyes.

Annie and Grace listen in...

There's laughter -- everyone knows Old Henry. Except:

Annie and Grace don't know how to respond... But everyone else

takes it their stride as they continue eating...

Grace notices Joe is whispering something to Frank, who nods

his head and speaks to the table.

Joe stands, somewhat formally, with his hat on.

Mrs. Booker, and Diane, beam. Annie and Grace don't know what

to expect. Joe stands straight as an arrow and recites a poem

from memory...

At first, Annie and Grace appear to be embarrassed for the boy

but soon they can't help but be won over by his guilessness.

He finishes and everyone applauds. Hank's wife asks:

OOoo's and aah's and smiles and conversations erupting over

each other.

Only we see, Grace looking over to Joe who gives her kickass,

shy grin...

Everyone toasts and drinks. Annie and Tom exchange a look.

She smiles, but not in a alluring way -- rather, in a grateful

way. Grateful for this brief moment of community and good

feeling. And somehow, Tom knows what she's feeling.

No one notices this silent exchange -- except for Diane, who

sees everything that's going on.

INT. RANCH HOUSE, DINING ROOM - NIGHTFALL

The Women are bringing in dishes and plates and food from the

tables through the house and into the kitchen. Annie is among

them, feeling apart of the group. She enters carrying a large

bowl, that held the corn.

Diane is replacing newly-cleaned forks and knives in her

dining room drawers, above which are several FAMILY PICTURES.

Annie complies. She notices the framed pictures on the wall in

the dining room.

Diane looks at a faded photo circa late 1800's.

She studies the old faces of Tom's Parents -- although 20th

Century people, there is still a pioneering strength in their

visage... a stoicism and power.

Diane is sorting silverware throughout the following:

Annie is intrigued by what she's learning about Tom.

Something outside the window catches her eyes. She watches:

POV;

Tom and Frank, on either side to Ellen, are escorting her to

a car that will drive her home.

EXT. RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

Annie wanders out, passing Grace and Joe on her way out. The two

are sitting in a glider. As Annie exits O.C., we hear them;

Grace doesn't know if she should.

Annie continues towards Tom who's sitting in a rocker playing

with the twins.

Annie takes a seat nearby and watches as Tom holds out the

first finger of his right hand. The Twins holds out his. Tom

splits his focus between Annie and the Twins as he takes a

small piece of rope out of his back pocket. He ties the ends

together making a loop. He puts the loop over the Twin's

finger. And holding the other end of the loop taut with his

left hand, he draws one side of the cord over the other with

the middle finger of his right hand. Then he rolls his hand

over so it's under the loop, and back over it again, so that

his finger is tip to tip with the Twin's. The loop seemingly

knotted around their touching fingertips, and can only be

removed if their touch is broken.

Annie and the Twins look down at the touching fingers as Tom

gently pulls the rope away, revealing they are still knotted,

and without even breaking their touch...

The Twins exit. Annie and Tom make eye contact.

Tom looks at her with a sly expression, and notices she's

shivering.

He takes his jacket and puts it around her shoulders.

He sits back down. Annie crosses her arms over her chest,

looks around, unconsciously swinging her foot. Tom watches

her leg. Annie notices him watching;

Tom shrugs. Annie waits a beat, then:

Tom likes disturbing her picture of him as the predictable

cowboy. He smiles;

Tom says this with a wry smile. Annie returns with a smile --

as an understanding is reached between them: they've both

stereotyped the other. They are both pleased -- and attracted --

by what they don't know.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

Grace is fast asleep, exhausted. She does not stir when the

phone rings.

Annie picks up from her own bed, awakened, still dressed in

her branding clothes, having just passed out on the bed.

INT. CENTRAL PARK WENT APARTMENT - NIGHT

INTERCUT: Robert, alone, in the vast apartment.

The sound of self-pity was so obvious for both of them, so

Robert quickly re-groups, resorting to something he knows is

important to her;

After a day of hard work and simple pleasures, Annie begins to

succumb to old anxieties and pressures.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

Annie is awake reading the faxes Lucy sent. One after other.

As she flips through them, one falls to the floor near the bed.

She gets down on all fours to retrieve and sees something

under the bed. AN OLD, BATTERED CELLO CASE. She pulls it out

to find the initials R.B. carved on the top. She opens it to

find papers, receipts, bills -- all from Tom's married life.

EXT. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE - EARLY MORNING

Tom rides a young colt along the creek. He hears footsteps.

He turns and sees Annie running along the creek on the other

side. He stops to watch. When his horse SNORTS, Annie looks

up to see him. She stops. He tips his hat to her.

Tom walks his horse across the creek to her, comfortable in

the silence. Annie moves about, uncomfortable in the waiting.

Tom is finding Annie's blunt curiosity more endearing.

Annie smiles and nods, realizing she's asking too many questions.

She tries to casually reach out to touch the horse's head, but

it's too abrupt and the horse tosses his head away, taking a

couple of steps back. Annie is embarrassed.

She does and the horse sniffs at her hand.

Annie is somewhat moved by her daughter telling him that.

A cold wind blows. She folds her arms across her breasts.

Tom can't help but notice her nipples are hard from the cold.

He looks away. She laughs.

Annie is struck by the words "before you go home." Tom ambles

off on his horse.

Annie steps across the rocks at the ford, crossing the creek.

Her foot slips, one of her shoes goes into the water.

She crosses the creek. She turns, giving him a small wave. He

touches his hat. She runs off. Tom watches her go, head down,

concentrating...

INT. CREEK HOUSE - DAY

A tense Annie is having a difficult phone with DAVID GOTTSCHALK;

During David's lines, Diane has entered, carrying fresh towels

-- she crosses into the bathroom.

Without Annie's awareness, Diane re-enters and takes her time

leaving, so she can take in all of Annie's things; her

business "office," books, etc...

Diane can't help but notice a slight vulnerability in Annie.

Annie is now aware of Diane's presence and chooses to play it

cool. It's not the moment.

He hangs up. Annie forces a smile to Diane.

Annie doesn't know whether or not to accept.

Before she finishes her line, the Phone Rings again.

Diane feels out of place and exits. Annie doesn't notice

until she hears the door close. She pushes back her hair and

takes a deep breath. She looks out through the side window

and sees:

Grace and Joe doing chores. Grace looks involved and not at

all self-conscious. A moment of gratitude and calm for Annie.

EXT. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

Pilgrim bursts out of a chute and into the riding arena. He

runs to the far end and abruptly stops. Tom is holding the

orange flagstick, and coiled rope, coming through a gate

into the arena, crossing to the middle of the ring. Something

in his demeanor tells us that fun and game are over.

Pilgrim and Tom stand there, motionless, eyeing each other.

Pilgrim snorts and takes a few, small steps backward. Tom

takes a beat, then starts slowly towards Pilgrim, lifting the

flag and "cracking" it. At the sound, Pilgrim whirls away from

him and runs, around the arena. He starts to slow, looking at

Tom. Again, Tom cracks the flag and Pilgrim runs, round and

round the arena... like a ringmaster, Tom keeps Pilgrim

moving, cracking the flag.

Something about Tom's demeanor tells us it isn't going well.

EXT. THE RANCH - DAY

Tom, carrying a saddle, comes around the side of the barn.

Through the slats, he sees Grace working in the barn,

watering a horse. She has stopped and is looking through the

cracks of Pilgrim's stall at him. She turns and sees Tom

through the slats. She goes back to work as Tom comes to the

barn door.

EXT. THE RANCH - DAY

They walk towards his pick-up truck.

He enters the passenger side.

She hesitates and gets into the truck.

INT. PICK-UP TRUCK - DAY

Grace doesn't know what to do.

She awkwardly puts her prosthetic foot on the gas pedal. Too

much. It lurches forward. She takes her foot off.

She does. They slowly, very slowly, move along the dirt road.

Grace badly oversteers, but makes the turn. She drives along

the road, across a pasture, heading toward distant mountains.

Folding his arms over his chest, shutting his eyes, Tom

relaxes back. Grace locks her hand on the steering wheel and

her eyes straight ahead...

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

The truck is parked at the foot of a mountain. Grace, very

pleased with herself, sits beside Tom on the cab's roof,

looking around them at the great Montana. After a beat;

Grace nods. It is a pleasant memory. He motions for her to be

quiet. An old ELK with a prodigious rack of antlers, has come

down out of the mountains. Seeing them, he stops in his

tracks, dead still. They watch each other. Then the elk turns

and runs back up into the mountains. Tom smiles at Grace who

smiles back -- partly because of the elk, partly because she's

alone with Tom.

Grace doesn't say anything. Tom nods then;

Grace is quiet. She doesn't want to think about that.

Grace looks away. Tom smiles and gently puts his arm around

her shoulders, which has a soothing effect on Grace -- making

her feel safe...

Grace looks into Tom's eyes, wanting so much to unburden herself

to him and have him make everything all right. She nods.

EXT. RANCH HOUSE - LATE AT NIGHT

Tom is making his way to the house at the end of the day, when

he stops and looks over to the Creek house --

POV -- the lights are on. And he can see Annie, exhausted...

approving pages, talking on the phone and faxing all

simultaneously.

He gets an idea.

EXT. CREEK HOUSE - MORNING

Annie sits on the porch of the creek house, with a guilt over

herself, sipping coffee and deep in thought. She looks up to

see:

Tom riding towards the house on his horse, leading another

horse behind him. He looks to her and smiles.

Tom reaches the house as Annie rises.

She gives him a crooked smile.

EXT. THE RANCH, PASTURE - DAY

Annie, in Levis and a jacket, rides Rimrock beside Tom across

the pasture. We overhear them in the midst of talking.

He rides a few steps ahead as Annie realizes she doesn't

remember. She just went into automatic "I don't have to be

told anything" mode.

Tom urges his horse into a center. Annie canters alongside.

Annie responds to every suggestion without resistance. And

she experiences this sense of pleasure -- this great animal

beneath her, the physicality and the surrender of letting

someone else lead...

She begins to let herself go, losing herself in the experience.

She just nods... Tom breaks into a full gallop... Annie follows

suit... She lets everything go -- her job, her marriage,

motherhood, guilt, anxiety... all of it. Her only focus is the

horse beneath her, and the man on the horse leading her...

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

They ride along the creek, crossing at a ford. They ride up

towards the mountains.

EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

They ride through a narrow pass with sheer rock walls, riding

by a waterfall...

They ride across a meadow, cattle stepping lazily aside to

let them pass. And as they ride alongside each other,

appreciating the silence...

They ride up along a sloping ridge covered with pine trees.

They come to the rim of a high bluff. They stop. They look

out at the twin valleys that gave the ranch its name. And

they can just see the old CREEK HOUSE hidden in the shade of

some trees along the creek...

Tom looks over at Annie, who is looking out over this

beautiful vista.

Tom is impressed by her feelings. He sees her saddle cinch

needs fixing and gets off his horse.

Annie complies once she realizes what he's doing.

Tom can't find a beautiful enough word. But Annie understands.

Annie sees Tom as if with new eyes -- his love for this woman

he lost.

Annie looks at him and for the first time senses a kinship --

an understanding they both have of being torn between two

worlds... a desire for home...

There is an awkward silent beat for a moment. Annie is

momentarily self-conscious. Tom helps by speaking of himself;

Tom looks right into her eyes and confesses without a shred

of self-consciousness.

They smiles.

EXT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

The world is in silhouette. Off in the distance, we see Tom

standing by his horse, offering his hand to Annie, helping

her off. There's an awkward moment, neither of them wanting

the day, or the moment, to end.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

Grace is standing by the window, looking out at them. Their

movements indicate an intimacy that upsets her.

EXT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

After a beat;

Tom gets back on his colt. He takes Rimrock's reins and leads

him off. Annie stops for a moment, watching him ride away...

She watches her mother walk towards the house;

INT. CREEK HOUSE - MOMENT'S LATER

Grace watches her mother stand there a moment, then turn and

walk towards the house. Grace moves away from the window,

her emotions churning -- jealousy, anger -- and enters her

bedroom, shutting the door.

EXT. THE PASTURE - EARLY MORNING

Joe, hat tipped low, is riding his horse, leading some young

horses, exercising them in the morning pasture. He sees Grace,

walking with her cane, coming across the pasture.

She stops. After a beat;

She nods. He hesitates.

He gets off his horse and holds it. She puts down her cane,

then puts her hand on the saddle horn. She puts her

prosthetic leg into a stirrup. Frightened, she starts to

shake;

Angry, determined, Grace tries to swing her leg onto the

horse. She can't do it. Tears of frustration on her face. She

tries again. She manages to pull herself halfway on, her

prosthetic leg buckles and she falls. Frightened, Joe runs to

her.

She gasps to catch her breath. He reaches to help her up. She

pulls her hand away. Embarrassed, she "runs" off. Joe remains

still. He hears a little VOICES. He turns and sees the TWINS

having been watching the whole thing from a small hill. As

they run off, he yells, threateningly.

EXT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

We follow Joe running towards the creek house, fastening a

good shirt. He's dressed and cleaned for dinner. He's late.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

Annie is in the midst of making a spaghetti dinner. She's a

little frazzled but she's on top of it. Grace enters wearing

a lovely dress -- it is the first time we have seen her in a

dress. Annie hears her enter before she sees her, asking;

Annie notices Grace standing there, in her dress. She stops.

Grace is a little self-conscious but grateful. She begins

taking forks out of her dress pocket.

Grace puts them away.

Grace nods and exits to the living room.

LIVING ROOM:

The room is silent because every Booker is READING A

DIFFERENT COPY OF ANNIE'S MAGAZINE. Frank covertly glimpses

at the scantily-clad models... The Twins sharing a magazine,

doing the same thing as their father, but keeping an eye out

for mom... Diane is looking at pictorial exposes on the kind

of lives she only hears about on audio tapes...

Tom sits off to the side, amused by the sight.

Grace enters as Joe enters. They nod across the room to each

other with a little smile.

We hear a CRASH in the kitchen, then:

Everybody looks up for a minute. The Twins giggle. Diane gives

them a dirty look.

Diane watches him enter the kitchen, then returns to her

magazine.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Annie has dropped a hot pot into the sink, after pouring the

tomato out of it, and into a terrine.

She undoes her apron and crosses towards the bowl. Tom's eyes

never leave her. It's the first time he's seen her in her

dress, sans apron. As she lifts the bowl to hand to him, she

realizes he's been looking at her. There's a silent moment,

then;

She looks for it. Tom crosses to her and buttons it, then

takes the bowl.

They're quiet for a beat as they exchange a look. Suddenly,

Grace enters -- she clearly doesn't like the two of them being

alone, Annie quickly covers;

Tom has already exited by the time Annie finishes, and Grace

grabs the bread basket.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

We parachute into the middle of the meal. The spaghetti is a

hit... We cut to different conversations and reactions around

the table.

Frank is in the middle of saying;

Grace is talking to Joe and the Twins.

Grace eats as she talks. Joe and the Twins are fascinated.

Annie asks Tom, Frank and Diane;

Diane doesn't know how to accept that, but inside she's

bursting with pride. She focuses on the Twins who fight;

Annie is so pleased and is about to reply, but Grace, noticing

Tom smiling at Annie:

There's an odd silence as a deflated Annie serves Frank.

Finally, Diane saves it.

Annie is grateful. Grace feels foolish.

The Twins excitedly move to the computer. Joe waits for Grace.

They exit into the kitchen. Frank continues eating.

Tom looks around -- Grace showing the boys the computer. Annie

and Diane in the kitchen. For a second, we see Tom realize an

image of the life he once thought he could.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

As Diane and Annie prepare coffee and dessert;

She laughs as she directs this last line to Diane, who just

smiles. And Annie realizes that's not what she meant at all.

This woman is starving for glimpses into this other life.

Annie can sense the disappointment in her voice, and at the

same time, the comfortable resignation.

Suddenly, from inside, they hear LOUD OVERLAPPING VOICES as

the children fight.

LIVING ROOM:

Diane and Annie enter to find Joe and Scott fighting, as Tom

tries to break them up...

Everyone goes quiet, except for the computer screen.

Joe lunges for Scott and the two start rolling in a fight.

Frank and Tom work to pull them apart as Diane yells.

Voices everywhere. Yelling. "Thank you's!!" During which,

Grace quickly turns and exits. Annie eyes follow her out of

the room, but with her guests and the chaos, she doesn't know

whether or not to leave.

Diane and Frank usher the kids out. Tom holds onto Joe until

they're gone, then lets him go.

Ever the gentlemen, Joe exits. Annie looks to Tom. He's about

to leave, when he stops and says:

Tom exits.

Annie stands and faces Grace's closed door. Slowly, she

lowers herself to her knees and sits on them, thinking...

reminiscent of Tom, waiting for his moment with Pilgrim, in

the field.

INT. CREEK HOUSE, GRACE'S ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

We don't know how long Annie waited, but she knocks gently,

then enters to find Grace, in her nightgown, on her bed, with

the night stand light on. Her prosthesis is against the wall.

Annie sits by the bed, Grace moves away a little.

Beat.

Beat. They're both exhausted.

Beat. Annie feels deeply hurt.

Annie stops to exit as Grace says something under her breath.

Annie stops.

Grace starts to sob. Annie doesn't understand.

Annie reaches down to touch Grace's shoulder. Grace turns --

there is no anger in her face. Annie sits and takes her in

her arms. Grace clings to her and sobs like a little girl.

Annie sees tears run -- gratefully, lovingly.

Grace is so grateful, they cling to each other even harder.

As the tears subside, Grace manages to admit...

They both start crying again as Annie rocks her gently.

They hold each other as if for dear life...

LATER -- CAMERA PANS to discover mother and daughter, fast

asleep, in each other's arms.

INT. TOM'S ROOM, RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

Tom sits alone, writing at his desk. His music is playing.

He stops to look out the window overlooking the Creek House.

Annie and Grace fell asleep with the lights still on in the

living room.

Tom is thinking of Grace and Annie -- wondering what happened

after he left... conflicted by what he feels for Annie... And

remembering why they're here in the first place...

INT. CREEK HOUSE - NEXT MORNING

The phone rings, awakening Annie first, then Grace.

Annie moves to the other room, sits down at her office space,

takes a breath, then picks up, yelling to Grace;

EXT. RIDING ARENA - LATER THAT MORNING

Annie and Grace are standing by the arena fence. Frank, Joe

and the Twins are sitting on the fence rail. Joe is holding a

saddle and a bridle, standing in some shadows in an empty

arena. Pilgrim comes running into the ring. Out of habit, he

starts circling the ring. He sees Tom holding a saddle.

Pilgrim walks towards him. Curious, he stops, looking at him.

Tom puts the saddle down, sitting crossways on it. Pilgrim

walks towards him again. He stops, looking at Tom again. Tom

just sits there, playing with the bridle. Pilgrim walks

around him. Tom doesn't show him any interest. Pilgrim comes

closer. He looks at the saddle. He runs off. He stops,

looking back. Tom just sits. Pilgrim walks back over. Tom

stands and shows him the bridle. Pilgrim comes closer,

sniffing it. He rubs his nose against the leather. Tom pats

his head. Then, in one quick, but deft motion, he puts the

bridle on him. Pilgrim tosses his head, but it doesn't seem

to bother him. Grace and Annie watch intently. Tom takes the

reins, walking Pilgrim around the ring. He walks him to the

saddle. Pilgrim paws at it with his hoof. He turns and runs

off. Tom lets him go. Pilgrim runs around the ring, slows

down, looks over at Tom. Tom picks up the saddle. Pilgrim,

cautiously, comes back over. Tom, with the saddle, walks away

from him. Pilgrim, again curious, follows him. He nudges Tom.

Tom stops. Pilgrim comes around to take a good look at the

saddle. Tom rubs his back. And gently, like laying down a

sheet, puts the saddle on his back. Pilgrim shuffles slightly

at the touch. Tom quickly cinches it. Taking up the reins, he

walks Pilgrim around the ring again. He starts to jog.

Pilgrim jogs with him. And in the middle of the jog, Tom

grabs onto the saddle horn, and without breaking his stride,

pulls himself back up onto his back. He lays across the

saddle, letting Pilgrim feel his weight. He sits up, and

without letting him break his stride, he urges Pilgrim with

his thighs, keeping him in the jog, riding around the ring.

Grace and Annie cheer. Tom tips his hat to them...

INT. THE BARN - DAY

Grace is cleaning stalls, etc... She exits one of the stalls

with a pail and stops -- looking down the barn to where she

knows Pilgrim is. She places the pail down and gathers her

courage. She walks to Pilgrim's stall. She stands motionless

for some moments before she opens the doors and enters...

Pilgrim steps back a bit. He looks at her. He pins his ears

back. Stomps his feet. Grace is about to turn and leave, but

she stops herself and remains still.

Slowly, she reaches out to touch Pilgrim's head... and he

lets her. We see in Grace a maturity of character, a

willingness to face what she must face... the beginning of a

compassion, not only for Pilgrim, but perhaps for herself as

well.

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - NIGHT

A full moon lights the ranch. Tom pulls up to the ranch house

in his truck, parks and gets out. As he walks towards the

house, he hears:

Grace exits the Creek House and coming towards him, a coat

over her nightgown. Tom waits until she reaches him.

Tom instinctively knows what she wants.

INT. RANCH HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT

Grace sits at the table. Tom is cooking at the stove. It feels

as if they are the only two people on earth. Grace gets up her

nerve... and begins:

She starts to quietly cry, but it doesn't stop her.

And we see the accident all over again... But this time, a

movie -- as clear as reality -- but in deathly silence. Just

the sound of Grace's voice, and her heartbeat...

EXT. THE WOODS, CONNECTICUT - EARLY MORNING

The horses are going up the icy path...

Judith's horse suddenly stumbles on the ice, going down,

throwing Judith, her foot helplessly caught in the stirrup.

Her horse sliding back down the hill.

Grace tries to move Pilgrim to avoid the errant horse, but

it's too late, the horse plows into them, the horses sliding

back down the hillside onto the empty COUNTRY ROAD...

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD, CT. - EARLY MORNING

Pilgrim is first to find his legs. Judith's horse, its leg

broken at the ankle, walks in a confused state. Judith's foot

is helplessly caught in the stirrup...

She sees the glint of the steel. The Truck suddenly appears

from around the bend.

Grace grabs the reins of Judith's horse. The horses are

spooking...

The truck skidded on the icy road, going out of control, jack-

knifing, heading right for them...

The truck bed plows into Judith's horse...

We see this...

Grace falls onto the road, the truck running over her.

INT. RANCH HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT

Grace sobs uncontrollably now.

Tom is near and holds her as she puts her head on his chest.

Grace listens to this. As Tom holds her in silence, it's

almost as if they were father and daughter...

EXT. THE CORRAL - PRE-DAWN

Tom stands with Grace in the corral. Tom's horse, Rimrock, is

saddled nearby. Tom takes Grace's cane.

Grace stands, looking at the horse...

She's trying so hard to be brave. After a moment, she reaches

for the saddle horn. She puts her prosthetic leg in the

stirrup, takes a breath and swings her leg up -- slipping,

falling to the ground. Tom doesn't say anything. She pulls

herself back up. She repeats the action... determinedly. She

swings her leg over again and sits squarely on the horse. Tom

remains still, but proud.

As the day breaks, we leave them in silence -- Tom standing,

hands in pocket... Grace sitting up on the horse, proudly.

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE, THE PASTURE - EARLY MORNING

Endless sky. Annie is jogging off in the distance when she

looks up and stops to see: Tom and Grace, both on horses,

stopped on a rolling hill. They do not see her.

Annie is filled with emotion... pride for her daughter,

gratitude for this amazing man.

As the two ride off into the distance we do a slow:

BRIGHT SUNSHINE... CATTLE DRIVE...

EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

Frank and Diane, with the Twins, dogs at their heels, ride in

front of the herd. Behind them, Joe riding alongside Grace.

Smokey and some Hands ride among the herd, keeping them moving.

And riding behind the herd are Annie and Tom...

MONTAGE OF VARIOUS MOMENTS THROUGHOUT THE DAY DURING THE CATTLE

DRIVE... Highlighting, in particular, those in which the rising

sexual tension between Tom and Annie is apparent.

EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - NIGHT

The cattle stands in silhouette. We hear singing.

Everyone is sitting around a campfire. Frank's playing the

guitar, singing along with Tom. They laugh when a lyric or a

note goes wrong. Everyone is enjoying it.

Annie, her arms around her knees, sits off by herself. The

song ends and people applaud.

Frank hands the guitar to Hank;

Hank begins to play and sing a painfully pretty song. His

sweet voice is stark contrast to his gruff, strongman

appearance. Frank offers his hand to Diane, she slaps it away

and laughs, he helps her up and they start to dance. As

everyone watches...

Joe stands and offers his hand to Grace;

Joe smiles and helps her up. They come together and start

dancing.

Annie is watching, holding her breath with gratitude.

Tom notices Annie off by herself and crosses to her. He

extends his hand. She hesitates, looks again to Grace with

Joe, then accepts...

His hand slide to her back. Her hand to his shoulder. They

dance. Their bodies closer than they've ever been. Slowly,

she leans her head against his body. And surrenders, for the

moment...

Diane sees them. She holds her husband fast, and buries her

head on his neck.

EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

MORE CATTLE DRIVE MANTAGE -- Taking Tom and Annie a bit

further in their intimacy; perhaps Tom takes extra special

care to explain things to Annie, or fix her saddle cinch, or

make her laugh...

EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - EVENING

The cows stands in the pasture, grazing. Annie and Diane are

cleaning some pots and pans in the stream.

This phrase "go home" stings Annie -- though Diane said it

innocently.

Annie and Diane resume washing the dishes in silence. Annie

deep in thought. Until Diane stops. After a beat, Annie

notices.

Diane's words ring in Annie's head.

EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DEAD OF NIGHT

Dead in stillness. The cattle dark and motionless. Everyone

asleep in bedrolls around the pasture.

Annie awakens, looks up at the moon, watching it go in and

out of the clouds. She looks over to sleeping Grace... Then

looks to where Tom is -- and sees his sleeping bag is empty.

Quietly, she rises and looks for him.

She starts across the grass and sees him crossing on his

haunches, wearing a slicker, sitting in the grass by the

stream, drinking some water. She watches him.

Tom senses something and turns. For a moment, they just look

at each other -- half disbelieving the inevitable is so close

at hand. Annie approaches as Tom rises.

They meet. They kiss. Tentative at first, but more, just to

make that very, precious first moment of discovery last as

long as it can. The kiss grows more passionate. They begin to

lose themselves in each other.

Until, suddenly, aware of their surroundings, they part. No

words. Their expressions to each other tell all. Annie

separates herself and goes back to her bedroll... Tom stands

in the grass, by the stream... the moving water, the night's

only sound.

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

The cattle drive returns. Tom, Annie, Grace, et al... are on

their horses, heading back towards the ranch when Grace sees

in the distance;

Annie looks up and sees:

POV -- ROBERT has come to the ranch. He is waiting for them

with his luggage beside a rental car... standing out like an

Like The Man In The Gray Flannel Suit in the middle of

Wyeth's "Christina's World."

EXT. RANCH HOUSE - DAY

Everyone is being introduced to Robert, as Grace hugs him

from the side, never letting go of him. Frank, Diane -- who

introduce their kids, then Tom and Robert shake hands...

Laugh. Awkward silence...

Robert is so sincere -- in that openly, modern, "express your

feelings" kind of way. Tom just nods.

As Tom walks away, a nervous Robert feels compelled to say:

Tom just nods and keeps walking. Annie and Robert face each

other for a beat.

The MacLean walk to the Creek House.

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

In the distance, we see the pick-up truck parked out in the

pasture. Tom is standing with Robert -- in jeans, now -- and

Grace, telling Robert about the ranch. Robert has his arms

around Grace, asking questions, interested in everything...

Grace is loving being with her two favorite men...

EXT. RANCH - DAY

Grace waits in the truck as Tom leads Robert through the cows

and cowshit, climbs up and hops over a wood fence. Robert

follows suit -- not as gracefully -- and gets a splinter...

INT. RANCH KITCHEN - DAY

Diane is busy in the kitchen when Annie enters.

Annie is determined. She needs to be by herself for a bit.

EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE RANCH - DAY

Tom continues his tour as the dogs run about them. Tom pays

the dogs no attention, except to bark an order. Robert,

however, engages with them -- picking up a stick and throws

it. A dog returns and gives it back. Robert kneels and begins

rubbing the dog's fur, talking to it, looking like an

anachronism in his baggy jeans with designer cowboy belt and

spanking new designer cowboy boots.

Tom waits patiently for Robert, who... and carries on with

the dog a bit too long. When Robert gets up, he habitually

brushes the dirt off his jeans, maybe even his boots, and

makes sure his outfit is hanging properly.

INT. BARN - DAY

Grace is in the stall with Pilgrim. Once again, close enough

to touch him, which he allows.

Outside the stall, stand Robert and Tom. Robert squeezes his

splinter...

Tom understands this man wants his family back.

INT. KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING

Everyone is seated around the table, eating, talking, laughing.

Grace is right by her father's side. Frank's in the middle of

telling Robert:

Laughter all around.

EXT. RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

Everyone is outside enjoying the night after a long day.

Diane and Annie are on the porch. Diane is showing Annie how

she does her needlepoint. Annie is genuinely interested.

Tom and Frank and Robert are sitting out front. Grace is at

Robert's feet. Joe sits on the ground in front of his father,

opposite Grace.

Back on Diane and Annie, who hear the laughter O.S. and look.

Diane smiles, seeing how much Grace is enjoying her dad.

Annie smiles and looks herself. Yes, she does, she thinks. Why

can't I?

Back to the others. Everyone is very interested in Robert's

stories... especially Tom.

Grace rises to go to the Creek House.

As Grace passes by, she stumbles a bit and Robert habitually

rises to help, but Grace ignores him and rights herself,

continuing. Robert quickly sits back down, continuing.

Tom listens with great interest and respect.

Back to Diane and Annie, who watch as Joe follows Grace.

A burst of laughter pulls their attention to the group --

Robert is now standing, acting out a story.

Everyone is listening, with big expectant smiles. Annie

watches -- having heard this story before. Her eyes gradually

shift to Tom, who is enjoying the story.

Laughter. Robert continues, giving a quick look to Annie --

who is looking at Tom... Robert lets it go, continuing his

story.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

Grace is asleep. Robert sits by her bed, lit by the moon

through a window. He stares at this creature he loves so

much. He rises and enters Annie's room.

Annie shrugs. Robert looks at the bed. He teases.

Annie nods. She tries to hide her discomfort. Robert sits on

the bed before her.

And they're quiet. He moves to kiss her. It's awkward. They

look to each other -- as they try to remember how to make love

together...

Annie smiles sympathetically.

EXT. BARN DANCE, HANK'S RANCH - DUSK

Cars and pick-up trucks haphazardly parked along a dirt

road... Smoking open grill barbecues. Ranchers and families

move about the ranch, sit and eat at picnic tables with

gingham tablecloths... Some teenagers hanging around the

corral, talking. Diane and some other women, eating and

talking... Frank with a group of men, drinking beer, telling

stories.

A BAND has been set up by the barn. People are dancing under

the harvest moon. Grace is dancing with Joe... Tom is dancing

with a local woman... Annie with a rancher... Everyone is

having a good time...

Robert is enjoying a smoke with some men. He looks over to

the dance floor and smiles when he sees Grace and Joe.

Joe and the Rancher trade place... Joe dances with Annie, the

Rancher with Grace... But Tom sees his chance and switches

with the Rancher so that he can dance with Grace... She is

thrilled and he guides her effortlessly across the floor.

Joe and Annie are interrupted by another couple. Joe switches

partners, but Annie smiles and excuses herself -- she wants to

rest.

Robert continues talking with some of the men. He puts out

his smoke and looks over to the dance floor. He sees Grace now

dancing with Tom... His eyes search for Annie. He moves away

from the men until he sees, from a distance;

Annie, sitting by herself, amidst the crowd... No one would

notice her unless they were looking for her... But Robert does

-- and what he sees is Annie looking at Grace and Tom... then,

only looking at Tom... Smiling to herself gently... Watching

his every move. Suddenly, she rises and exits out of the barn

to get some air.

EXT. HANK'S RANCH - NIGHT

Annie finds an isolated spot, behind the main house, to be by

herself and catch her breath.

INT. BARN - NIGHT

Tom and Grace continue dancing. She's in heaven. Robert

approaches and Tom quickly allows him to take over. Grace

loves the attention from both men. As they dance off, Tom

crosses the dance floor and is met by Hank's wife;

EXT. HANK'S RANCH - NIGHT

Tom is walking along when he turns the corner of Hank's house

and finds;

Annie sitting alone, staring up at the night. They see each

other. From behind the house, no one else can see them.

It is as if the fates brought them face to face and alone.

Without any will to stop it, they embrace and kiss

passionately. But when they look into each other's eyes,

there is no joy in the kiss. Tom releases her and walks away,

heading for the shed. Annie quickly pulls herself together

and enters the main house through the back door.

INT. DOUBLE DIVIDE RANCH, KITCHEN - NIGHT

Diane is once more sitting at the kitchen table, looking over

some bills before bed. Her tape player is on softly. Tom

enters and crosses to the sink to get a glass of water.

Diane looks up, seeing Tom with his back to her -- standing at

the sink, filling his glass -- staring out the window over the

sink. She looks to the dish of brownies on the table.

Diane senses an uneasiness in Tom. She looks as he drinks his

water.

MEDIUM CLOSE-UP ON TOM'S BACK, as if from Diane's POV.

But when we pull back we find ourselves;

INT. BARN - NIGHT

Tom is standing in front of Pilgrim's stall. He opens the

door. They look at each other. He strokes him and begins to

whisper;

Camera gently moves away... and Tom whispers to Pilgrim what

must be done...

EXT. THE RIDING ARENA - DAY

There's a stillness. A sense of import. Annie, Robert, Frank,

Diane, Joe and Smokey, are all at various spots along the fence.

Grace stands inside the ring. Tom is standing beside Pilgrim

in the middle of the ring. Pilgrim is bridled and saddled.

Tom adjusts he stirrup. He walks over to Grace...

Grace swallows hard, nodding. She's worried...

Tom puts his arms around her shoulders and walks out to

Pilgrim. The horse pricks up his ears as they approach. Tom

motions Grace to stop a short distance from Pilgrim so as not

to crowd him. Tom walks over alone, reaching to gently take

hold of him. Holding him by the bridle, he puts his head

beside Pilgrim's, quietly speaking to him, soothing Pilgrim's

neck with his other hand...

Annie and Robert are fascinated. Anxious.

Pilgrim never takes his eyes off Grace. Tom tries to ease him

forward. Pilgrim resists, lifting his head and looking at

Grace so you can see the white at the top of his eye. Tom

turns him away, walking him in circles, trying to calm him.

He leads him back to Grace. Pilgrim tosses his head and

stomps his feet.

Robert grows more anxious. Annie is calmer, more focused.

Tom climbs up on him, riding him around the arena in an easy

lope. Grace watches them go round the ring. She looks at her

parents and tries to smile. They try as well.

Tom dismounts and leads Pilgrim back to Grace. Pilgrim balks

again, violently throwing his head, kicking... Grace's

shoulders slump, she presses her hands in her pockets,

fighting not to cry...

Smokey climbs over the rail into the ring as Tom says something

to him. Meanwhile Frank reassures Grace:

Smokey jogs over to the gate, climbing it, and disappearing

into the barn. Tom crosses to Grace.

Smokey re-enters the ring, carrying some rope. He talks

briefly to Tom. Pilgrim, sensing something, turns and runs to

the far side of the ring. Tom, his arms spread, walks over

to him, keeping him by the fence. Tom takes him by the

bridle. Smokey comes beside him. Tom unhitches the bridle and

in its place slips a rope halter Smokey passes to him.

Smokey then hands him two long ropes, one at a time. Tom

fastens one under the halter and ties the other to the saddle

horn. Tom asks Smokey.

Smokey hands it to him. Tom quietly talks to Pilgrim, runs

his hand down Pilgrim's left foreleg and lifts his hoof.

Pilgrim slightly shifts. And when he's still, Tom slips the

loop at the end of the soft rope over the hoof making sure

it's snug. And taking the other end of the rope, he hoists the

weight of Pilgrim's raised hoof and ties the rope to the

saddle horn. Pilgrim stands on three legs -- an explosion

waiting to happen. Tom moves away from Pilgrim, taking the

halter line from Smokey. Pilgrim, trying to move, finds he's

crippled. Scared, he lurches, hopping on his right foreleg.

Seeing he can't walk, panicked, he tries to run. Tom and

Smokey, brace themselves, lean back on their ropes and force

him around them in a tight circle. He goes around and around

like a crazed rocking horse with a broken leg. Tom looks over

and sees Annie has left Robert outside the ring to stand by

an anguished Grace -- her hands on her shoulders, gripping

her. Robert watches, feeling too much a foreigner...

But even Frank isn't so sure. Pilgrim, covered in sweat,

still circles. As he runs, his hobbled foot jabs at the air,

trying to find peace. He runs and runs as Tom and Smokey lean

on the ropes -- until he can't run any more and stops. Tom and

Smokey let the lines go slack. Pilgrim, stands there, his wet

sides heaving, panting like an asthmatic, making loud rasping

sounds. Tom and Smokey speak. Smokey hands him his rope.

Turning, he gets a coiled lasso out of the sand. He swings

the rope in a wide loop and makes it fall over Pilgrim's

saddle horn. He pulls it tight. And he takes the other end of

the rope to the far side of the fence and ties it in a quick

release knot to the bottom rung. Coming back he takes the

other two lines from Tom. Tom crosses to the rail. He starts

putting pressure on the rope. Pilgrim feeing it, braces

himself. The pressure tilts the saddle hold downward.

Pilgrim fights. Tom pulls on the rope. Pilgrim, slowly,

begrudgingly, gives ground. Tom, brings him to his knees,

but it is short lived. Pilgrim is muscling his way back to

his feet. Tom pulls him down to his knees again. Pilgrim,

fighting with every bit of strength, slowly gets to his feet

again. But the pressure Tom is putting on the saddle is too

strong and relentless and finally Pilgrim goes down on his

knees and stays down. Yet Tom keeps the pressure on... Tom

shouts to Smokey.

Smokey, dropping the line, runs over. They both pull on

the saddle rope.

Pilgrim snorts and foams at the mouth, fighting. But

slowly, like a wounded bird, she starts giving in. He

rolls over on his side and lays his head in the sand and

is still. It seems like a total, humiliating surrender.

Grace starts to sob, burying her face in Annie's chest.

Robert feels impotent to help.

Tom and Smokey stand over the fallen horse like two big

game hunters at the carcass of a kill.

Grace shakes her head "NO." Frank motions to Annie for

her to let Grace go... to let stand alone... We see

that it's not easy for Annie to trust this, but she does.

And she steps back to where Robert stands...

Tom, his face set, walks toward Grace...

Grace violently shakes her head "NO"... Robert gets up the

courage to say aloud:

Annie quickly turns to him and says with quick intensity:

Robert can't watch this. He turns and takes a few steps.

Just stops... standing behind and apart from Annie, to

just watch... slowly becoming transfixed, like someone

who can't stop staring at an accident.

Tom reaches Grace and puts his hand tenderly on her shoulder...

Grace looks into his eyes and is reminded of all this man

has done for her... and she remembers her trust.

Tom, prouder of her now than ever before.

Tom leads her across the ring, with his arm around her

shoulder. Annie tries to maintain her composure. Robert

remains still and focused.

Tom and Grace come to Pilgrim, lying in the dirt, his

breathing plaintive. Tom speaks gently;

Grace is shaking her head "NO." He speaks more firmly.

Grace knows there's no way out. She takes a breath and slowly

kneels in the dirt beside him, with Tom's help. She lays on

him, rubbing him, his hindquarters, his legs, his side,

softly rubbing his neck and the wet silky side of his head.

Tom responds to their voice without looking at them:

Grace obeys him through her tears. She lets Tom take her hand

and guide her up onto the curve of Pilgrim's belly. Then he

lets go. Grace stands there with teas steaming down her

face -- standing on the animal she loved most in the world.

Robert, however, is hypnotized by the event. He is having a

private epiphany of sorts.

Grace sits in the dirt by Pilgrim and strokes him quietly --

she begins talking to him, the way Tom does. Tom watches, as

he cautiously steps further away. Pilgrim looks up at Grace

out of the dark pool of his one sad eye. They look at each

other. And we understand there's a connection once more. A

moment of understanding... and forgiveness.

Grace starts to untie his ropes. Smokey is about to stop her

but Tom shakes "NO"...

Pilgrim, like an infant coming out of the water, breathing

life for the first time, gets to his feet. Grace and him look

to each other. And all is still.

Grace grabs the saddle horn. Pilgrim shuffles as if he's

going to bolt. Grace quietly reassures him... She then

carefully puts her prosthetic leg in the stirrup. Pilgrim

shifts slightly. Annie covers her mouth so as not to scream

out her fear. Robert breaths heavily. They watch as Grace

swings her leg, determined, and pulls herself into the

saddle. Sitting on his back, Pilgrim tosses his head and

looks as he's going to run off. But Grace puts her arms

around his neck, and once again, quietly reassures him.

She starts to ride him, slowly, her arms around his neck,

talking all the while, around the ring.

Annie laughs as she cries -- emotion overwhelming her. Robert

feels almost numb with fascination, gratitude, confusion...

The slow ride turns into a trot... then a lope... then a

canter... round and round the ring. Frank and Diane smile.

Diane looks to Tom and knows what he's feeling...

Tom watches as any father would -- his heart pounding with

pride for the miracle of his child. But he doesn't let on for

a second.

Grace brings Pilgrim to a stop, lifts her arms to the

heavens, victorious. Everyone cheers. Smokey helps her off

the horse. She stops to look at Tom, who busies himself with

picking up the ropes... So she re-focuses on her parents. They

run to each other and embrace... First, she and Annie... then,

she and her father...

But, as Robert and Grace hold each other and begins to exit,

Annie manages to make eye contact with Tom... and tell him

with one look, how grateful she is... and how much she loves

him. And he receives it...

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

WE FOLLOW THE DAYS AFTER THIS EVENT...

Work on the ranch goes on as usual while Tom and Grace keep

nurturing Pilgrim back to life.

EXT. PASTURE - ANOTHER DAY

Grace and Annie go riding...

EXT. MOUNTAIN TRAIL - DAY

Robert takes an isolated hike up the mountain until he comes

upon a ridge overlooking an inspiring vista. We can tell

Robert is moved by the sight. Sweaty, tired, he find a place

to sit... to be still... and to consider his life.

EXT. THE RANCH HOUSE - DAY

Frank's car is parked up for the trip to the airport that

will take the Bookers to Branton, Missouri for Diane's

cousin's wedding...

Grace, Annie and Robert are outside saying goodbye to the

Bookers; Diane, the Twins... and Joe... Joe awkwardly shakes

her hand... then removes his hat and puts it on her head.

Everyone laughs. They want to hug each other, but don't know

if they would...

Frank and Tom are packing the car...

Diane turns to Annie. Robert instinctively steps away, saying

goodbye to Joe and the boys... The two women look at each

other with respect and concern.

Diane understands.

Tom hears this bit of info as he passes by with the wedding

present and puts it in the truck. Annie makes sure to avert

her look.

Diane just nods, knowingly. She extends her hand. The women

shake.

They part. Diane starts giving order as she gets in the car:

Camera wides as we hear the voices of departure... see the

MacLeans waving... See Tom off by himself, waving... but

thinking of something else...

INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

In the midst of packing, Annie has made dinner for Grace and

Robert. In the midst of eating, Robert asks:

Annie remains silent.

EXT. RANCH HOUSE -- NIGHT

Tom exits with a small, leather satchel. He crosses to his

truck, tosses in the satchel, gets in and drives off.

EXT. BARN - MORNING

Grace enters the barn to say goodbye to Pilgrim.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

She moves to his stall and opens the doors. He stands there,

without any fear of her. She smiles and enters. She wraps her

arm around his neck, pets him and whispers.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - DAY

Everything is being packed up. Robert is dressed for travel.

Annie is taping up the boxes containing her computer

equipment.

Annie looks up from the box to see Robert is calmly staring

at her. His demeanor is different. Something's going on.

This is Robert's moment. He knows it. He takes a breath and

hopes it comes out right:

Annie cannot remember a time when she ever loved her husband

more than in this moment -- knowing what it took for him to

say this. She would not disrespect it with denials. Her

throat is choked with tears, she swallows down. She nods.

Robert nods, feeling both pride and heartbreak in the same

moment. He picks up his bag, kisses her goodbye and exits.

EXT. RANCH HOUSE - DAY

Annie and Robert walk towards the car to find Grace, leaning

against it -- looking depressed.

Both Robert and Annie are surprised.

She embraces Grace and, over her shoulder, watches Robert

enter the car. Grace follows suit. The car drives off leaving

Annie alone at the Double Divide.

EXT. CREEK HOUSE - DUSK

The ranch is still. Annie stands on the porch, her arms

folded, vulnerable, looking at the ranch. All her boxes are

packed and stacked in the room. She looks over to the Ranch

House... to Tom's window.

INT. TOM'S ROOM - DUSK

A light goes on. Annie enters, cautiously. She's never been

in this room. She crosses to the desk, touches it. She

notices a tape player and pushes it on. MUSIC PLAYS... She

sees a small framed photo -- of Tom's son, years ago.

Suddenly, she feels like an intruder. She shuts the music off

and exits...

INT. BARN - DUSK

Annie faces Pilgrim... she gently lifts her hand and caresses

his face. He returns her gentleness. Annie is remembering

Robert's words, her heart is heavy with conflict. She jokes:

She hears a truck pull up... Then, a door open and close. Her

heart races...

EXT. BARN - DUSK

Annie exits the barn and sees:

Tom, walking away from the truck with the headlights left

on... is walking right towards her.

Annie begins moving towards him, When they meet:

He takes her in his arms and they kiss.

EXT. RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

Tom leads Annie to the front door. She waits as he unlocks it.

INT. RANCH HOUSE, SECOND FLOOR, TOM'S ROOM - NIGHT

Tom leads her to his room. Annie cups his grasp on her with

both hands. He opens the door for her, ushers her in, then

closes the door. He hangs his hat. She turns to him. They

embrace, surrendering to each other's passions.

INT. RANCH - DAWN

Camera pas from Tom's window, bright with dawn, past his

desk upon which his classical music is playing, over to the

two lovers in bed, kissing and embracing. Then:

Beat. She nods. The permission Tom is giving her acts like a

great burden being lifted, and for the time being, she

surrenders and accepts the gift of what they feel. They kiss.

EXT. THE RANCH - DAY

Since the ranch must continue, Tom and Annie move through a

day of ranch chores --

-- TOM AND ANNIE CLEANING STALLS AND FEEDING THE HORSES.

-- TOM IS TRYING TO SHOW ANNIE HOW HE HAS TO FIX SOMETHING.

ANNIE INTERRUPTING WITH HER OWN IDEAS... TOM TRIES TO EXPLAIN

BUT ANNIE KEEPS TALKING, EXCITED BY HER PLAN... TOM LAUGHS.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - DAY

ANNIE HAS UNPACKED HER COMPUTER AND HOOKED IT UP, SHOWING

TOM HOW TO USE IT. HE PUSHES THE THRONG BUTTON AND MAKES A

FRIGHTENED FACE... ANNIE SCREAMS, THEN LAUGHS AND HUGS HIM.

THEY ARE MAKING LOVE ON A BLANKET AMIDST OF THE MOVING BOXES IN

THE MIDDLE OF THE DAY.

INT. KITCHEN, RANCH HOUSE - DAY

-- ANNIE COOKING LUNCH IN THE KITCHEN, SEEING TOM WORKING WITH

SMOKEY...

EXT. PASTURE - DAY

-- THE TWO ARE EATING LUNCH IN THE PASTURE. THEY ARE TALKING

SERIOUSLY ABOUT SOMETHING... PERHAPS EVEN DISAGREEING... ANNIE

SHAKES HER HEAD, NOT WANTING TO LISTEN. THEY EAT IN SILENCE.

-- THEY ARE WALKING AND DISCUSSING, HOLDING HANDS... UNTIL TOM

WRAPS HIS ARM AROUND HER AND HOLDS HER CLOSER... ANNIE, BURYING

HER HEAD IN HIS BODY.

EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

Tom and Annie, their horses packed with gear, ride across the

high mountain pasture through the grazing cattle...

EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

Annie and Tom sit overlooking a breathtaking view. Tom is

showing her the rope trick... She looks down at their touching

fingers and he gently pulls the rope away, still knotted, and

without ever breaking their touch... Annie looks into his

eyes, understanding what this means, raises his hand to her

mouth and kisses it. She looks up at him with a curious

expression;

EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DUSK

Annie lays asleep in Tom's arms, under a blanket. He picks up

another blanket with his free hand and shimmies it under her

head, laying her down. She snuggles with the blanket and

keeps sleeping.

Tom takes a moment to look at her as she sleeps, gently

brushing her hair away from her eyes. He's deeply in love

with this woman and wants to keep her with him. But there is

a sad resignation in his look. A confusion.

He rises and walks to a stream nearby. He bends down to take

some water when he hears something. He looks up and sees on

the other side:

A WILD HORSE giving birth to a foal in the tall grass. And a

WHITE STALLION steps in between Tom and the mare, as if

protecting her.

Tom rises slowly to his feet. Then stands stock still. He and

the Stallion penetrate each other.

Suddenly this beautiful, powerful Stallion rears -- violently.

Tom remains still, but clearly the horse is treating him as

an invader...

It's as if the Whisperer is now being guided by the Horse

towards understanding. As Tom receives it, he remembers;

WE BEGIN TO FADE OUT ON TOM

Voice-Overs have carried over into a...

INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

Tom and Annie make love...

But there is a difference in their lovemaking. There's a

slowness, a reverence... a sense of two people so bounded, that

they are outside of time... Their love is so strong it almost

feels like despair -- their need to connect has gone beyond

their bodies and into their spirits, for which there is no

earthly satisfaction.

EXT. CREEK HOUSE - MORNING

The sun has risen.

INT. CREEK HOUSE - MORNING

Annie awakens in bed and discovers she is alone. She looks

around for Tom. She rises and enters the other room to

discover:

All her boxes and all her luggage have been removed.

Her heart sinks. Tom re-enters, fully dressed, to get the

last box. He sees on her face a look of confusion and hurt.

Tom doesn't know how to respond. He looks away and bends down

to reach for the box when Annie commands:

Beat. They stand awkwardly for a moment, until;

Tom reaches to embrace her, but Annie attacks him. Punching

his chest... pulling at his shirt as Tom tries to put his

arms around her...

Tom's heart is breaking as he manages to get his arms around

her and hold her... as she breaks down and softly, the rage

passes... Annie speaks softly.

Suddenly;

Annie is struck by the powerful sincerity of his words;

Annie looks into his eyes and asks, softly defiant;

As if there has to be a result... Tom looks at her and says

with an almost innocent conviction:

The simplicity, and truth, of it hits Annie strongly.

Annie releases herself from him and turns away... despondent.

Realizing the utter truth and inevitability of what he says.

She starts shaking her head. Tom can't hear it... He reaches

for her;

She turns back into his arms and they kiss passionately...

holding each other... as if for the last time.

EXT. RANCH HOUSE - DAY

Tom is escorting Pilgrim into the trailer attached to the

Suburban. He looks across the ranch to see the figure of

Annie, standing alone, perfectly still, in the pasture,

looking out to the horizon... (reminiscent of Tom earlier in

the film)

EXT. THE PASTURE - DAY

Tom approaches Annie from behind, stopping a few feet away.

She doesn't answer... as if she has found her own private

place within her, at last... A place of strength. She looks as

if she knows what must be done... She hears him about to walk

away when she asks:

Tom stops. Considers this. Then:

He exits. Not seeing the tears in Annie's eyes.

INT. BARN - DAY

Tom enters the barn slowly. He crosses to Rimrock's stall...

then stops. As if he is waiting. As if he knows...

Then... he hears the sound of Annie's Suburban starting up. He

looks up and knows she's leaving. He waits.

EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - CONTINUOUS

Wide angle of Annie driving away in the Suburban with the

trailer.

INT. SUBURBAN - CONTINUOUS

Annie doesn't look back -- her eyes wet with tears -- but no

sobs.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

Tom lowers his head. It is not his way to say goodbye. And he

is moved by Annie's knowing.

EXT. HIGHWAYS & ROADS ACROSS AMERICA - DAYS & NIGHTS

A MONTAGE of images of Annie traveling home...

Across different terrains, we see Annie driving -- missing

Tom... thinking of what she will decide by the time she gets

home. Remembering IMAGES OF TOM:

-- Riding on Rimrock and tipping his hat to her...

-- Sitting in the pasture, staring at Pilgrim. Ignoring her.

-- Seeing her arrive at the ranch for the very first time.

EXT. A DIFFERENT HIGHWAY OR COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Annie drives, she continues remembering...

-- She and Tom in the branding...

-- She and Tom dancing around the camp fire at the cattle drive.

-- She and Tom kissing in secrecy behind Hank's house the night

of the barn dance...

EXT. ANOTHER HIGHWAY OR COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Annie continues driving and remembering;

-- Annie and Tom coming towards each other that first night

after everyone had left the ranch...

-- Tom opening the front door to the ranch house...

SUDDENLY WE;

INT. ROBERT'S HOUSE IN INDIA - A DAY REMEMBERED

A much younger Annie waits, surrounded by luggage, as A DOOR

OPENS revealing a much younger, more vital, very handsome

Robert:

Annie is first surprised, then embarrassed but Robert seems so

charming and his smile breaks into a laugh, that she just nods

and laughs herself.

INT. ROBERT'S HOME IN INDIA - A NIGHT REMEMBERED

Over a meal, Robert talks excitedly of his experiences. Annie

is captivated.

INT. ROBERT'S BEDROOM IN INDIA - A NIGHT REMEMBERED

After Annie and Robert have made love, Robert sleeps with his

arms wrapped around Annie. She lies awake, feeling safe and

loved.

EXT. LITTLE BIGHORN NATIONAL MONUMENT - TWILIGHT

Annie stands where she stood when she and Grace stopped here on

their way to Montana...

She removes from her pocket the KNOTTED LOOP he made for her,

and looks at it.

EXT. MACLEAN CONNECTICUT HOME - DAY

A car is driving up the driveway to the house. It stops.

Robert and Grace get out as Annie exits from the front door.

She looks beautiful -- but in a completely different way than

ever before. There is a calm center to her. A softness and a

strength. She smiles and walks to meet them.

They kiss as Grace watches.

Grace exits excitedly O.C. Annie and Robert face each other.

Robert doesn't know what to expect... but he softens when Annie

smiles:

Annie nods. He reaches for her hand, and Annie gives it

willingly... They begin to walk away from Camera... together.

Annie begins to speak, telling him what we already know. How

he will react or what will happen, is unknown. But these two

people will no longer avoid their life together... somehow,

they will make the effort to face it together.

As Camera Widens, we see included in the frame, Grace and

Pilgrim... as she strokes him and whispers in his ear... and

leads him for a walk...

