BEVERLY HILLS STREET - NIGHT

It is late night, and deserted. Engine noise approaches;

headlights appear; as the car draws closer we hear singing.

It is a Mercedes convertible and as it roars by, the singing --

a sloppy baritone and a giggling soprano -- whooshes by with

it.

We hold as another car approaches. This one is a conservative

sedan, whose occupant does not sing.

INSIDE THE CONVERTIBLE

The middle-aged driver is in a tuxedo with a rumpled shirt

and cocked bow tie. He is flushed, a Rogue forelock bouncing

over his forehead, and he merrily sings "Casey Jones" along

with the passenger, a young woman in a party dress who

squeals, rocks with the motion of the car, and

enthusiastically pipes in on the chorus.

ANOTHER EMPTY STREET

The convertible makes a hot turn onto the street and

approaches with its singing.

REVERSE

The car enters and roars away. After a beat of quiet, the

conservative sedan enters and recedes.

BEACH

We are at the Malibu Guest Quarters Motel. The singing,

squealing Mercedes screeches into the lot and rocks to a

halt.

The young woman staggers out still giggling, and holding a

half-empty bottle of champagne.

The man tosses her a key with a large plastic tag.

She trots away.

The man twists his rear-view mirror to look at himself. He

straightens his bow tie. He puffs his bounding forelock with

one finger, nods his head to make it bounce, grins

approvingly, and cocks a pistol-finger at his own reflection.

MOTEL ROOM

The man enters and looks around. The young woman's dress is

tossed onto the bed but she is nowhere to be seen.

The man pulls an imaginary train whistle.

He looks around, in a closet, under the bed.

He is reacting to a long leg which pokes out from behind the

window curtain.

A salacious smiles spreads across his lips. He pulls on the

cord to draw back the curtain and reveal the young woman in

red panties and a bra and a saucily cocked conductor's cap.

The man is stripping off his clothes.

Rex lunges at the young woman and they tumble onto the bed

just as --

CRASH -- the door is kicked open and a short stocky black

man built like a bulldog and wearing a porkpie hat rushes

into the room with a video camera glued to his eye. He looks

like Clarence Thomas with a mustache.

The young woman screams, clutching the sheets to her naked

bosom. Rex leaps from the bed, still clad only in his

chemindefer boxers, and darts around the room seeking egress.

The man with the video charges around the room following Rex

THE VIDEO IMAGE

Rex is stumbling around the room in a panic, looking for his

clothing. The camera swish-pans back to the young woman still

screaming in the bed.

We swish-pan back to Rex as he bends over to pick up his

trousers, mooning us.

PULL BACK FROM THE VIDEO IMAGE

To reveal that we are in the detective -- Gus Petch's --

office.

Faintly, from the television monitor we hear screaming and

mayhem.

THE WOMAN

Watching the monitor, MARYLIN REXROTH is a sensual beauty,

with intelligence and class. She watches the monitor without

expression.

Gus Petch sits behind a desk.

Faintly, from the monitor:

We hear the Young Woman SQUEAL. Marylin reacts.

Marylin turns her attention back to the screen.

TRACKING SHOT

All from the perspective of a moving automobile.

The moving shots show mansions, palm trees, boutiques; we

pass joggers, strolling businessmen holding cellular phones

to their ears, male models working as waiters at sidewalk

cafes, young women on roller blades who turn, smile, and

wave at the camera. It is la dolce vita Los Angeles style.

THE DRIVER

A handsome, fortyish man in a town car talks into cellular

phone. This is MILES MASSEY.

EXT. BEVERLY HILLS MANSE

Rex is trying his key in the front door of his house. Finding

it doesn't, work he rattles the knob, then leans on the

doorbell.

We hear distant chimes.

Finally, through the intercom:

From inside the house we hear the menacing sound of LARGE

DOGS BARKING.

LETTERING

On an interior wall; it says MASSEY, MEYERSON, SLOAN &

GURALNICK.

A pull back shows that we are in a waiting room, and a

receptionist leans over her partition to chirp at Rex Rexroth.

INT. MASSEY MEYERSON CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Miles addresses a group of young Attorneys at the firm.

The Receptionist pokes her head into the conference room.

As he exits.

MILES MASSEY'S OFFICE

You may have seen it in the issue before last of "World of

Interiors." There's a Rothko on the wall, an Elle Bleu humidor

on the desk, peonies in the vase, and the diploma is from

Yale.

He leans back in the leather executive chair behind his desk,

makes a steeple of his fingers, and dons his look of deepest

concern.

Rex, nervous, laughs ruefully.

Miles gives an encouraging, rueful smile in return.

Quietly.

Rex hangs his head.

Miles sighs sympathetically.

Miles smiles at him.

EXT. RUNNING PATH - SAN VICENTE BLVD. - MORNING

Marylin power walks along the San Vicente Bike Path with her

friends SARAH SORKIN and RAMONA BARCELONA. It's early, but

the path is crowded with bikers, bladers, runners, power

walkers, wheelchair racers etc. Ramona pushes her infant in

a baby jogger.

A COURTROOM

We are close on the person on the witness stand, a woman in

her 60's.

JUMP BACK

At the counsel's table in the foreground Miles chats, voice

lowered with WRIGLEY, a boyish, bespectacled junior associate.

Beyond them we see the woman on the witness stand continuing

her testimony.

Miles turns to Wrigley with a look of indignation. He gestures

to their surroundings.

Wrigley looks suicidal.

He waves dismissively at the courtroom.

He rises.

He reaches back and Wrigley puts a manila file in his hand.

WAITING ROOM - MASSEY MEYSERSON

The receptionist leans over her partition to chirp at Marylin

and her attorney Ruth Rabinow. Ruth is a sturdy woman in her

late 60's. If Mrs. Guttman had gone to law school...

CONFERENCE ROOM

In the middle of the Massy Meyerson conference table is a

large fruit and pastry plate.

The door swings open. Miles rises.

They shake hands.

They appraise each other for a beat. They are impressed and,

they are impressive. As they settle in:

Miles has been staring at Marylin. She notices this, and

smiles shyly. He snaps out of it.

A tight, terse smile from Miles.

They drift for a moment.

Miles lays a hand on his arm.

He puts the clipboard away and looks carefully at Ruth.

Rex winces. Rubs his stomach. Marylin leans forward and

whispers to him.

She removes a pack of the tablets from her purse, along with

several vials of prescription drugs.

She hands the pills to a grateful Rex. Their hands touch for

a moment.

She looks at him like a concerned parent. Miles and Ruth

watch the interaction.

Ruth stands and closes her attache case.

Miles calls to Ruth's retreating back.

Going through the door, Ruth doesn't react, but Marylin

following, glances back -- bemused, but with a trace of a

smile.

Rex swallows two more tablets. He sits, looking despondent.

Miles looks at him. Shakes his head, sadly.

He shrugs, helplessly.

INT. GYM - CLOSE ON

A woman walking across a gymnasium floor. Suddenly, she's

assaulted by a huge, grotesquely garbed assailant. His sweats

barely cover his massive, overdeveloped musculature. On his

head, a ski mask stretches over a padded football helmet. He

grabs the woman, yanks her back towards him. She reacts

swiftly. With a ferocious "NO," she stomps on his foot, and

smashes him in the face. The mugger raises his hands in a

gesture of submission.

APPLAUSE

We pull back and see that we are in a Self Defense Class.

Two instructors, two "muggers" and ten women students all

wearing T-shirts with the words IMPACT-Personal Safety.

Marylin and Sarah sit against the wall.

Marylin watches as a new "victim" begin her walk across the

gym.

The mugger emerges from his station and makes his way toward

the "victim." She glances over her shoulder, and at the sight

of the monster bearing down on her, screams and runs to the

exit. Marylin and Sarah giggle, but reproachful looks from

the other students force them to affect concerned looks.

The two Instructors and the Mugger try to coax the sobbing

woman back into the room. They clasp her in an empathic group

hug.

The INSTRUCTOR, a vivacious phys ed major, approaches Marylin.

Marylin gets up and coolly walks to center stage, passing

the traumatized Lilly.

Marylin begins the Victim walk. The Mugger quickly moves up

from the rear.

The Mugger is upon her. He grabs her hair. She stomps his

foot, and smoothly wheels around SMASHING him in the nose

with her elbow, while KNEEING HIM in the groin.

The women Cheer.

ELEGANT RESTAURANT - EVENING

Miles rises from his seat as Marylin enters.

The Maitre d' is pulling out a chair for her.

Miles glances at the wine list.

Miles nods at the maitre d' who returns the nod and withdraws.

Miles regards her.

Miles leans back, props his chin on one fist, and considers

her.

She laughs.

A waiter appears and pour a taste of wine which Miles sips

and -- He nods at the waiter who pours two glasses.

FLAP a menu enters frame. It is handed to Marylin; another

is handed to Miles.

She addresses the waiter.

Miles looks at her with appreciation.

She regards him for a moment.

COURT ROOM

A large black woman in judicial robes and raiment enters

from behind the Solomonic Platform.

Massey, Wrigley, and Rex Rexroth in between, rise. Rex and

Wrigley remain respectfully standing, facing forward, as

they whisper out of the side of their mouths:

Wrigley considers.

Miles glances over and hisses:

A GAVEL CRASHES

LATER

We are on a close lateral track of the jurors faces as they

sit, with earphones on, in the darkened courtroom, illuminated

by a flickering TV monitor.

Leaking tinnily through the headsets we hear a very faint:

The track ends over at Marylin's table, where Marylin also

wearing headphones, looks on with studied stoicism. Ruth

lays a consoling hand on her shoulder.

LATER

Marylin Rexroth now struggles to maintain her composure on

the witness stand. She is modestly dressed and her attitude

is one of shocked, wounded innocence.

Miles soberly rises.

He paces, hands clasped behind his back, affecting to be

lost in thought.

Marylin watches him.

Finally Miles, still pacing, declaims:

Marylin looks up from her handkerchief with a look of startled

irritation. Miles stops pacing and turns to face her with a

faint smile.

Marylin examines him with guarded eyes. Ruth sensing something

unscripted going on, tries to cut it off.

Marylin eyes him suspiciously.

She flutters one hand.

Marylin hesitates, gives a "what does this mean look" to

Ruth. She returns a "beats me."

Smiles slips out:

Miles returns a fleeting smile.

She looks at Rex with tender sorrow.

Miles almost smiles. She's good.

A Bailiff offers to help Marylin off the stand. She politely

and courageously declines.

Marylin, in the process of reseating herself behind her table,

pauses.

Ruth notices this and leans in.

An attractive woman in her mid fifties advances to be sworn.

She was a beauty, but her glory days are past and she's not

taking it well. She looks tense and slightly hypo-manic. She

speaks in a breathy, giggly voice, and smiles frequently for

no apparent reason.

Marylin sighs.

Patricia smiles coyly. Gives Marylin a silly little wave by

way of greeting.

She laughs merrily at some private joke between her and her

psyche.

She laughs happily at the memory.

INT. SARAH SORKIN'S BEACH HOUSE - NIGHT

Pasta being cooked. Salad being tossed. Wine glasses are

filled. It's Girl's Night at the beach.

INT. GIANT MOCK TUDOR - BEVERLY HILLS

Miles is at his weekly chess game with his college friend,

DR. KENNETH BECK, a disaffected plastic surgeon. Miles, Cohiba

in hand, studies the board. Dr. Ken sips his Merlot. Moves a

piece.

Kenneth moves a chess piece.

INT. MILES MASSEY'S OFFICE

Miles addresses BONNIE DONOVAN, a client.

He stares contemplatively at the ceiling and, after a beat,

responds to the silence:

A squawk box interrupts with a female voice.

Miles is surprised.

INT. OFFICE

Slatted shades are drawn against the sun. It is dim, gloomy.

We can just make out the shape of an ancient man -- small,

hunched -- seated behind an enormous desk. A gallows shape

next to him is hard to make out; it is tall, rail thin and

fixed with a swinging, glinting appendage.

A voice -- old, dry, rasping, lightly accented of a long-

gone Brooklyn boyhood -- seems disembodied and sourceless,

as if it is the voice of the gloom itself.

An arm is being extended toward us and the glinting appendage

swings with it: we see that it is an IV which snakes down

and into the hunched man's suit sleeve.

Miles takes the man's offered hand, withered and roped with

veins, and accepts its clammy shake.

He leans back in his chair, breathing heavily, and runs a

tongue over his sandpapery lips. He is wearing oversize Swifty-

Lazar style glasses, heavily tinted in spite of the dark.

At length

INT. MILES OFFICE

Miles sits behind his desk, fingers steepled, staring at

nothing, a haunted look on his face.

His intercom SQUAWKS:

INT. PRIVATE BATHROOM

Miles runs his fingers through his hair, carefully examining

himself in the mirror. Suavely smiling.

He clears his throat, begins again with lower pitch, suave

smile still in place

He runs a finger across his teeth, which squeak, then puts

back the suave smile

DOORWAY

On Miles as he opens the door, suavely smiling.

Facing him in the doorway is a large roughly handsome middle

aged man in a business suit.

Just behind him is Marylin Rexroth, looking as coolly

beautiful as ever. She smoothly puts in:

Marylin glides into the office. Seats herself on the couch.

Doyle sits next to her, one proprietary hand on her knee.

Doyle pulls out a deranged piece of felt stuffed with money.

Most of the contents slip to the floor.

Miles is stunned.

He removes a family photo from the felt wallet. It's of Howard

and two fat teenagers. Apparently the former Mrs. Doyle was

cut out, but an ear and part of a hairdo are sill visible in

the shot.

He looks at her with predatory lust.

He pulls her close to him and plants a massive kiss on her.

Miles flashes Marylin a "you are KIDDING" look, but she

assiduously avoids eye contact.

Miles acknowledges this with a curt nod.

He gropes her. She giggles like a teenager.

He eyes Marylin.

Eyes boring into Marylin.

ELEVATOR BANK

Marylin and Howard wait for an elevator as Miles trots out

to catch them.

Miles drags her to the side as Doyle checks his Sports Pager.

She backs up as he tries to close the space between them.

He has backed her against the wall of an alcove which shelters

a flowering ficus.

He moves to kiss her.

She deftly slides out of the way. Miles watches her as she

heads down the hall. As she gets on the elevator, Howard

grabs her butt with one hand, while giving Miles a high sign

with the other.

INT. HOWARD'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Miles stares at the chessboard.

EXT. A WEDDING BOWER - AKA CHUPPA

From behind the bower, RABBI BOLENSKY emerges, strumming his

guitar and singing:

A pullback reveals Howard D. Doyle before the altar with

Marylin. He is in a tuxedo and yarmulke. She is dressed in a

simple, Kennedy-type gown.

The last arpeggiated chord rings out; birds tweet, everyone

sits.

As Miles and Wrigley seat themselves, Wrigley is sniffling.

Miles is irritated.

As the crowd quiets with the end of the song, Wrigley murmurs:

There is silence, broken only by the twitter of birds and

the restlessness of a hungry audience.

Finally:

Heads turn. Miles bites a knuckle. Birds twitter.

A kiss. Cheers. Applause.

A RECEPTION ON THE GROUNDS

Rabbi Bolensky strolls through the crowd with a heaping

platter of smoked salmon.

Miles is darkly brooding as Wrigley opens a Tiffany box to

show him the contents.

Miles sounds wistful:

Ding Ding -- Howard D. is tapping a knife against his wine

glass. The crowd quiets.

Howard D. turns to one side to address Marylin, taking one

of her hands between his paws, as she beams up at him.

Laughter from the gallery.

He reaches into his breast pocket and withdraws a piece of

paper.

A Caterer places a plate and a bowl of sauce in front of

Doyle. Marylin looks on, surprised and bemused.

He starts tearing strips off the piece of paper, dipping

them into the sauce, and eating them. His mouth stuffed with

paper, Doyle repeats:

The crowd is murmuring--the murmurs grow in volume -- a

smattering of applause -- cheers -- more applause -- wild

cheers. Slowly rhythmically, Miles starts thumping his hand

together, nodding comprehension.

Next to him Wrigley is puzzled.

Miles' hand-clapping accelerates.

Wrigley's eyes widen. He looks back at Doyle eating the paper.

Wrigley bursts into tears.

LATER

Marylin stands at the punch bowl accepting congratulations.

Miles approaches and draws her aside.

He takes the plate of food from her.

With a ROAR we CUT TO:

INT. LEAR JET COCKPIT

A uniformed pilot and copilot are cruising the corporate jet

high above a vast ocean of clouds. The pilot is wearing a

headset. After a long moment of listening he shakes his head.

The pilot reaches above his head and throws a small toggle

switch and the cockpit is Awash with the sound of screaming,

laughter and music:

INT. CABIN OF LEAR JET

Screaming with laughter, two naked damsels in conductor's

caps are pushing Rex Rexroth around the cabin on a miniature

locomotive. He is wearing his railroad boxers and bellowing

"The Ballad of Casey Jones."

BACK TO THE COCKPIT

The copilot shakes his head.

The pilot shrugs.

EXTERIOR

WHOOOSH -- the plane roars away.

INT. MILES OFFICE

WIDER

A secretary seated by his desk is taking notes.

Wrigley enters.

He hits the call button.

We hear the Receptionist Voice:

INT. FANCY RESTAURANT

We move in on one of the tables where Marylin and Miles sit

as a waiter pours them champagne.

As he fill Marylin's glass: Raises his own in a toast.

The Waiter hands Miles a menu.

A long pensive moment.

Miles reaches across the table and takes her hand. She lets

him. He strokes it.

INT. CAR

Miles drives. Marylin sits silently looking out the window.

DOYLE MANSION

Miles pulls up to the huge house.

He takes her hand again.

She puts a finger to his lips.

Sadly, Miles relinquishes her hand.

She exits the car and walks up to the front door. Miles

watches her go.

INT. BEDROOM - MASSEY MANSION

We hear Court TV on in the background. Miles alone in bed,

reading Art In America.

ON THE TV

A Witness is being examined by the Prosecutor:

CLAP OF THUNDER -- BOLT OF LIGHTNING

In a boiling night sky.

There are distant, echoing wails.

WOOZY DUTCH TRACK

Along a pointing suitcoated arm.

The woozy track finds the cadaverous hand at the end of the

arm with an IV tube swinging from it. Miles stands next to

the arm. He's holding an assault type weapon.

Miles shoots -- Bonnie falls. Then Mrs. Guttman. Marylin is

next. Miles hesitates.

Miles points the gun at Herb.

RING. RING. RING.

MILES BEDROOM

He bolts up in bed, sweating.

RING

He gazes stuporously about, reaching for the ringing phone.

We hear the SCREECH of Tires.

INT. DEN - MASSEY MANSION

Marylin sits in the den. She's had some coffee and, although

teary and disheveled, is no longer psychotic.

She takes the coffee cup and has a sip. She looks like a

lost waif.

Marylin looks at a photograph Miles has on a side table.

A WOMAN AND TWO SMALL BOYS.

The Woman has her arm around one of them. The other stands

close to her. Smiling, but awkward and tentative.

Miles walks over to look at the picture.

Marylin looks at the picture again. And yes -- you can see

how hesitant Miles was. Marylin is moved. A flash of something

genuine crosses her face.

She takes a sip of coffee. Regards Miles.

She stands. Picks up her purse. Walks over to him with an

outstretched hand.

He doesn't release her hand. Instead he draws her to him,

and kisses her. She kisses him. He kisses her back. She...

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mile and Marylin -- making love.

LATER

They are in post coital wrap.

She waits, puzzled.

They kiss.

She laughs. Kisses him.

INT. CHAPEL

Miles and Kenneth wait. Dressed in suits. Miles looks nervous.

Wrigley, rushes in, carrying a briefcase.

Marylin enters. She looks outstanding. Her friends, Sarah

Sorkin and Ramona Barcelona (who is now visibly pregnant)

accompany her.

Wrigley pulls a sheaf of papers from the briefcase.

Wrigley hastily pulls a ballpoint from his pocket and clicks

it. Miles grabs the pre-nup, and as he turns to Marylin, his

tone softens.

Judge laughs.

Marylin looks at the pre-nup. Then pulls Miles aside.

As if a lead veil had been drawn across. She looks deep into

his eyes. Into his soul.

INT. CHAPEL

Miles and Marylin stand before the alter.

She glares at Miles.

Chastened, Miles bows his head.

There is a long beat, through which Miles stares at his shoes.

Marylin looks at him.

Wrigley bursts into tears.

THE MARRIED MASSEY MONTAGE

INT. MASSEY HOUSE - MORNING

Miles and Marylin asleep in bed. The ALARM RINGS. Miles wakes,

turns to his beautiful wife -- kisses her good morning.

She gives him a sleepy Smile.

Miles dressing for work. Marylin, in a Sabia Rosa bathrobe

places a tray with coffee next to him. He holds up two ties

for her-approval. She selects one. He puts it on.

Miles and Marylin reading Newspapers while eating breakfast.

She serves him a bowl of fruit and indicates Wrigley's berry

spoons. They laugh heartily.

Marylin waves good bye as Miles backs drives to the office.

She waves at the gardeners who blow palm fronds around the

lawn.

MILES OFFICE

He has managed to fill his credenza with pictures of married

life. Due to its brevity -- these pictures are uneventful,

the Massey's wear the same outfit in most of them.

Miles works. He is interrupted by the voice of his SECRETARY.

Miles picks up.

He laughs and laughs. We hear Marylin's laughter coming

through the receiver.

Miles exits a flower store with a bouquet of tulips. Marylin

at the doorway, greets Miles as he arrives home.

As Miles changes into his casual after work outfit, (khakis?)

Marylin sits at the edge of the bed. He's telling her about

his day, and she is rapt with attention.

The Massey's have a candlelit dinner of fish and pasta. The

tulips are in the middle of the table.

Miles and Marylin snuggle on a couch and watch Seinfeld.

Miles in bed on the new Frette Linen. A few too many pillows,

but he's making it work. Marylin enters the bedroom in a

nightshirt that is the perfect combination of innocence and

nastiness. He puts down his book as she gets into bed with

him.

They gaze at one another -- the picture of contentment and

impending lust.

CLICK - LIGHTS OUT

EXT. MASSEY MYERSON - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Miles is addressing the young associates.

The young associates look confused. Wrigley raises his hand.

Herb Myserson sits in the back of the room. He watches,

breathing heavily.

INT. DEN - MASSEY HOUSE

Miles and Marylin watching a cable movie crowded together on

the small sofa.

He surveys his surroundings with a critical eye.

He hands her a credit card.

She stops him with a kiss.

INT. QUATRAIN ANTIQUES - DAY

A pricey antique store near Melrose.

She picks up an antique Chinese bowl.

He sets it aside next to the formidable pile of loot the

girls have accumulated.

She hands him the Platinum Visa.

He trots off with the card.

Marylin absently fingers an antique guided candelabra.

INT. FLOWER STORE - EVENING

Miles is buying a huge bouquet of flowers. As he exits he is

stopped by a WOMAN. She is in her 40's but looks older.

She grabs the flowers. Pulls petal off one of the roses and

eats it.

A NURSE runs over.

INT. RUTH RABINOW'S OFFICE

Ruth calmly watches Miles ranting around her office.

Miles hangs his head. Ruth sighs sympathetically.

INT. MASSEY HOUSE - NIGHT

Marylin greets him at the door.

She brings him inside. The place has been massively

accessorized. Antiques, rugs, lamps and assorted tasteful

chatchkies. There is a new Biedermeyer couch in the den.

Miles looks at it, expressionless.

He stares at her -- a very dark look.

She retrieves all the receipts from her purse.

INT. KITCHEN

Marylin is on the phone with Ruth.

OUTSIDE BEDROOM - MASSEY HOUSE - NIGHT

The bedroom door is closed. Marylin knocks repeatedly.

She pushes the door open. No Miles in sight. On the bed,

scrawled on a piece of mMm stationery, taped to one of the

mMm Frette pillows -- a note which reads -- "If you prick

us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh? If

you poison us, do we not die? AND IF YOU WRONG US SHALL WE

NOT REVENGE?"

INT. KENNETH'S HOUSE

Kenneth stares at the chessboard. Court TV is on the

background.

TV SCREEN

COURT TV REPORTER

We are back at the Trial of New Jersey v. Medrano. Mr. Medrano

is accused of killing his wife, Alicia in 1992. He claims it

was suicide. Let's return to the courtroom.

See the action in the courtroom --

The Prosecutor shows the jury an extremely large handgun.

He moves a piece.

INT. MASSEY HOUSE

A private yoga class. Marylin, Sarah and Ramona are in the

plow position. The yuppie Sikh instructor places his weight

on Sarah.

Sarah tries a few deep breaths. Marylin concentrates hard.

SFX DOORBELL

INT. HALLWAY - MASSEY HOUSE

Marylin walks to the door. Opens it. Two POLICE OFFICERS.

INT. POLICE STATION - MONTAGE - DAY

Marylin is photographed front and profile. She is finger

printed; she is searched and relieved of her jewelry; and

finally, she is throw into a holding tank with several other

women -- trapped. She clings despondently to the bars.

INT. POLICE STATION - DAY

Ruth is admitted to the holding area.

INT. HOLDING TANK - DAY

A Police Officer walks down the hall. Unlocks the door.

Marylin exits.

INT. RUTH'S CAR

Marylin sits next to Ruth.

INT. MASSEY HOUSE - DAY

Miles opens the door. Marylin is standing there.

Marylin walks into the den. Sits on the new sofa.

He laughs. She looks at him, dead serious.

She opens a humidor and takes out a Cigar.

She reaches into her purse. Pulls out a Dunhill and expertly

lights the cigar.

She gives him a peck on the cheek. As she leaves:

Miles sits dejectedly on the new sofa looking at the

paintings. He looks at the watch. And the cigars. And the

picture of his mother.

CLOSE ON A BAG OF FLUIDS

We pull back from the milky yellowish bag of fluid to show

that a nurse is unhooking and removing it from under Herb

Meyerson's wheelchair where it collects drainage.

She now places it up on the IV gantry and connects, and swaps

the now empty drip under the wheelchair to collect drainage.

We are once again in Herb Meyerson's gloomy office, its

venetians blocking most of the light and making Herb a dark,

enigmatic figure.

A reverse shows Miles standing in front of Herb's desk.

He waves his free arm to the beat of music unheard.

He brings himself up short and turns to the nurse.

She heads for the door.

He climbs unsteadily to his feet and tries to pace,

gesticulating, with the IV swaying dangerously behind him.

He pauses to let this sink in.

INT. BEDROOM - MASSEY HOUSE

Miles is in bed, morosely watching Court TV.

TV SCREEN

Close on NIKKI ROSEN - A COURT TV ANCHOR

THE COURTROOM

THE STUDIO

Nikki speaks to her Guest Host.

CLOSE ON

An edgy looking gangster, JOE. He is perspiring heavily. He

breathes through his mouth with the rasping wheeze of an

asthmatic.

His labored breath rattles as he stares across the table at

someone off. At length, a voice:

Still staring, but perhaps by way of answer, the gangster

raises an inhaler, sticks it in his mouth, and squeezes.

WHUSH.

A reverse shows Miles seated across a small round table in a

seedy low-lit clam house. Photos of Ted Kennedy and the Pope

adorn the walls..

He is shoving an envelope across the table.

The gangster stares expressionlessly. He raises the inhaler

again and, with his eyes still on Miles, squeezes. WHUSH.

A long beat. Finally, Miles explodes

He bites a knuckle, gazing fearfully at the gangster. The

gangster stares impassively back.

INT. REX REXROTH MANSION

An enormous oak paneled room. Furnished with chairs sofas

and a huge circular bed. A fire roars in the far corner. On

the wall above the bed a film loop is being projected --

soft core pornographic images.

On the bed, Rex is surrounded by three naked beauties, smeared

in cola dust and wearing conductor caps.

Rex hunches over, clutching his left arm.

One by one, the girls stop dancing and stare. There is a

somber silence, broken by another.

The girls are all watching now. One of them steps forward.

INT. KENNETH'S HOUSE

A guest room. Dark, dirty and filled with empty bottles of

expensive French wine.

We hear a phone ringing in a different room. It rings several

times.

The figure on the bed stirs, rolls over, moans, clamps a

pillow over his head.

The ring of the distant telephone is interrupted and we hear

a muffled voice:

We hear approaching footsteps and Kenneth enters the

background, knotting a bathrobe. He turns on the light in

the room.

The figure on the couch pulls away the pillow. It is indeed

Miles Massey. He blearily takes the offered phone.

After another listening beat he drops the phone away. He

remains staring dully out into space.

Kenneth is mildly puzzled.

Miles voice is still flat, expressionless:

He looks up a at Kenneth.

MINUTES LATER

Miles paces with the telephone. He punches numbers with the

thumb of the hand holding the phone; his other hand holds a

coffee cup from which he takes trembling slurps.

Then a beep.

He slams down the phone.

Consumed with remorse, Miles moans.

MILES CAR

Miles drives, speeding, taking corners hard while punching

numbers into his car phone.

INT. MASSEY MANSION - NIGHT

In the bedroom, the phone starts ringing. A hand enters to

pick it up. We follow the hand up to reveal

MILES SPEEDING CAR

MASSEY MANSION

Marylin hangs up the phone.

She walks slowly around the room, pausing at the mantelpiece

to pick up a framed picture of Miles, which she

contemplatively regards.

We pan with her continued walk to bring Joe into frame. He

stands with his back pressed to the wall. She's started for

a moment, but quickly recoups:

She shows him the picture of Miles.

She cocks an eye at him.

We faintly hear a car screeching to a halt.

EXT. MASSEY MANSION

Massey exits the car. He clutches a can of mace.

INT. MANSION

We hear a key scrape in the lock. The front door swings open

onto a dark foyer as Miles tiptoes in.

DINING ROOM

Miles tiptoes through, looking warily about. He backs through

the swinging doors connecting to the kitchen. Finds himself

face to face with Joe.

Joe stares at him.

He makes a cow-herding motion with his hands.

Joe takes out his gun.

This has no effect on Joe who is unscrewing his silencer.

Miles is exasperated. Suddenly -- Marylin appears.

Joe glances at both of them with barely concealed contempt.

Joe is raising the gun at Miles. Miles sprays him with Mace.

BANG -- Joe fires blindly, scrunching his eyes against the

chemical, sucking for breath like a jet engine revving for a

take-off.

SLAM -- Marylin elbows him in the face, breaking his nose.

She finishes with a solid groin kick. It slows him down, but

doesn't stop him.

Joe stumbles a bit, but regains his footing.

BANG -- Joe is rampaging around the room, still firing,

thumping at his chest with his free hand for his inhaler.

Marylin runs to Miles. He takes her hand and they run toward

the door, seeking egress.

BANG -- still firing, he pulls out the inhaler but blindly

bobbles it.

Joe reaches with his gun hand to keep the inhaler from

falling. He momentarily bobbles both gun and inhaler.

Miles pops up in front of him.

Joe recovers and raises the gun to his mouth as he points

the inhaler at Miles.

He squeezes -- WHUSH -- Miles squints against the asthma

mist and lets out a horrified:

BANG! The off-screen gunshot is followed by the sound of a

body dropping heavily to the floor.

Silence.

Marylin runs over to Miles. They look sadly down at the floor.

INT. MASSEY MYERSON CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Wrigley sits bouncing the steepled fingers of one hand against

the other.

Miles sits gazing sadly out the window.

The room is empty.

There is the whir of ventilation.

The click of the door attracts both their attention and brings

them to their feet.

Marylin walks in, chic and beautiful as ever, followed by

Ruth, who sits next to her, places her attache case on the

table top, and snaps its clasps.

Miles and Marylin are looking at each other. Quietly:

There is an uncomfortable shifting in seats. Wrigley looks

at Miles.

Miles is still looking at Marylin.

She pushes a piece of paper across the table.

Miles ignores the paper, which lies unclaimed on the middle

of the table. He looks at Marylin.

Marylin looks a Miles.

Miles, staring at Marylin, cuts in:

Miles, with his eyes still on Marylin, reaches into his suit

coat. He withdraws a piece of paper, spreads it flat on the

table in front of him and, still gazing at her:

He decisively clicks the button on a ballpoint pen, looks

down at the paper in front of him and scribbles his name.

He pushes the paper across the table toward Marylin.

Gazing at him, seeking the truth in his eyes, she absently

picks up the paper.

There is a long silence. We hear only the hum of ventilation,

and Wrigley's quiet snuffling.

Ruth is looking down her nose through her glasses -- over

Marylin's shoulder -- at the sheet of paper. Marylin however,

looks only at Miles.

Marylin rips the paper in half.

Wrigley sobs openly.

Miles rises slowly to his feet.

He puts his knuckles on the tabletop and leans forward.

Marylin rises slowly to her feet.

She leans forward.

They kiss.

EXT. MASSEY HOUSE - DAY

We hear a SMASHING -- BREAKING.

Gardeners look up briefly from the leaf blowing -- but quickly

prioritize and continue blasting sycamore leaves from one

end of the yard to the other.

TRACK THROUGH HOUSE TO

INT. MASSEY BEDROOM

The smashing is becoming louder.

AN AXE

Breaks the beautiful wood panelling in the room next to the

master suite.

CONSTRUCTION WORKER LOOKS UP

he's the one wielding the axe. His co-worker casts a look in

our direction.

MILES

reaches under the rubble and removes one box of Cohiba

Especials.

ON MARYLIN

Mightily pregnant.

Miles casts a rueful look at the cigars.

Miles looks at the box, then at his wife. He tosses the box

to the concerned construction worker.

The construction worker gives him a very hostile look.

