INVENTING THE ABBOTTS - Rev. 3/20/96                  3A/4.

The GAS NOZZLE CLICKS OFF, Jacey hangs up the nozzle, and

replaces the gas cap. Lloyd pulls out his wallet.

He hands Jacey a five-spot and gets into his car. Lloyd

drives away in his Cadillac. Jacey crumbles the five

dollar bill into a ball. As he returns to the office he

catches his reflection in the mirror of the cigarette

machine. He frowns and pulls off his cap and bow tie.

The abandoned boathouse is a dilapidated structure

situated on an isolated shore of the large lake. Doug

strikes a wooden match, shepherds the flame, leans over,

holds the match to his ass and lights a fart. The

amorphous blue flame flares and almost instantly

disappears as the gas is consumed. VICTOR, Doug's

partner in crime and best friend, is impressed. (Victor

is fifteen, too.)

The ROAR of a PASSING SPEEDBOAT attracts Doug's interest.

Doug steps out of the boathouse onto the   sagging dock and

sees a fast speedboat cutting across the   lake towing a

male water skier. (Another young man is    driving the boat

with two young women in bathing suits as   passengers.)

Victor comes out as the speedboat's wake   rocks the old

dock.

-- with Jacey skiing behind it. STEVE is at the helm.

Eleanor and SANDY lounge in their bathing suits.

Doug is at the table doing homework. The DOORBELL RINGS.

Doug starts to get up as Helen comes out of the kitchen.

Helen opens the screen door and finds a well-dressed

woman standing in the yard with her face turned away.

The woman turns -- it is Joan Abbott. Helen is

momentarily caught off balance by Joan's bristling

presence.

Doug spies on Joan and Helen and their curious exchange

through a dining room window. Unable to hear their words

he can only witness how their words are spoken.

Helen steps off the porch and approaches Joan, who is

doing most of the talking -- but Joan seems to require a

certain distance from Helen and works her way to her

Chrysler Town & Country station wagon parked at the curb.

Joan grows more and more agitated as she talks.

Eager to hear what is being said, Doug dashes through the

living room to the front door.

Doug and Pamela lounge on opposite ends of the sofa with

his bare feet pressed against hers in a gentle shoving

match. They are watching an episode of "Sea Hunt" on the

TELEVISION.

She pushes harder against his feet and her foot slips off

his and clobbers him in the crotch. He moans and sits

up.

She pulls him down on top of her. She kisses the tip of

his nose then blows his bangs off his forehead.

They kiss but are almost instantly interrupted by the

SLAM of the SCREEN DOOR. Doug looks up and does a

surprised take as he sees Alice going up the stairs

followed by Jacey.

Pamela rushes out of the house with her shoes in her

hand. Doug chases after her in his bare feet.

The Plymouth approaches -- Jacey turns off the headlights

and KILLS the MOTOR and coasts to a stop in front of the

house next door to the Abbotts'. Alice gets out of the

car, Jacey hurries after her, following her into her

front yard.

He grabs her arm and stops her.

Lloyd's voice paralyzes them.

Alice steps out of the shadows and finds Lloyd standing

at the front door.

Pamela rises from a wrought iron bench in another part of

the yard -- she strolls over to Alice.

Pamela and Alice go inside the house.

Jacey exhales, he is ashen.

Doug hoses down the sidewalk in front of the restaurant.

Pamela pulls up in her car and gets out.

He struggles to hold his anger and frustration in check.

Pam's composure begins to weaken, but she quickly returns

to the car before she can lose control. Doug turns the

hose back on. He doesn't look up as she drives away.

Helen rinses off some just-picked vegetables. She turns

off the faucet, then pauses in reaction to something.

Helen approaches the foot of the stairs drying her hands

with a dish towel. She listens for a beat, then steps

out on the front porch. Doug is brushing a coat of green

enamel on the repaired porch swing.

Doug rinses the dirty dinner dishes in the sink.

Helen hears the SCREEN DOOR SLAM as she fetches a clean

tablecloth from the buffet. She puts the tablecloth on

the table, starts for the kitchen, then hesitates.

Jacey stands on the porch watching the taillights of

Alice's car disappear into the night. Helen appears

behind the screen door.

She steps away from the screen door.

Alice comes in the front door and goes up the stairs.

Joan steps into the entry hall.

Alice disappears at the top of the stairs.

It is almost two o'clock in the morning. Helen has dozed

off in her chair with a book on her lap. She is startled

awake by a loud BANGING at the front door. Helen hurries

to the door and opens it. Pamela is on the porch. She

is out of breath and very distraught. Her CAR is parked

in the middle of the street with its lights on and MOTOR

RUNNING.

Jacey comes down the stairs, pulling on his bathrobe.

Doug appears on the stairs behind him.

Pamela dashes back to her car.

as Jacey walks down the remainder of the stairs and

watches Pamela speed away.

Helen closes the front door and turns to say something

to Jacey, but he cuts her off:

Helen climbs the stairs, collects Doug at the top

landing, and leads him away.

Jacey punches his fist through a glass pane of the sheer-

curtained sidelight beside the front door.

Doug is mowing the front lawn.

The DRONE of the LAWN MOWER accompanies Jacey's pacing.

His face is haggard and unshaven. He glances out the

window and sees something that sends him bolting out of

his bedroom.

Jacey turns and rushes out of the boathouse.

Jacey hops into the PLYMOUTH and PEELS OUT as he speeds

away. Lloyd Abbott steps out of the boathouse and

approaches the station wagon.

Jacey speeds recklessly back into town.

Jacey skids into the driveway and leaps out of the car.

Jacey bursts through the front door and cries out.

Joan Abbott rushes into the entry hall.

Lloyd Abbott steps in the front door and drops his car

keys into the silver bowl on the hall table.

Joan hurries away.

Jacey turns and sees Alice standing at the top of the

stairs. She is pale and drawn and wearing a bathrobe.

She walks OUT OF VIEW. Lloyd steps up behind Jacey and

says softly but with piercing intensity:

Jacey turns and stares at Lloyd -- then brushes past him

on his way out the door.

Jacey haphazardly packs his suitcases. His emotions have

been spent. Helen stands in the doorway.

HOURSHORT TIME LATER)

Jacey doesn't look out the window as the bus (on its way

out of town) drives past the illuminated billboard that

reads: "MIDWEST STEEL DESK, INC. -- Welcomes You to

Haley, Illinois."

Doug and Helen sit across from each other, neither one

has much of an appetite. They eat in silence for a few

moments, then:

She rises and picks up her plate.

Helen carries her plate to the sink.   Doug follows her

in.

She sits at the kitchen table and sighs as if coming

around to some central, hard truth.

INVENTING THE ABBOTTS - Rev. 3/20/96                   83.

He slaps the back of a chair and knocks it over.

His finger trails the shoulder strap of her bra...

He draws his fingertip around the outside of her breast

to the lower front of her bra...

The Co-ed is bothered but none-the-less bewitched.

Jacey smiles and then kisses her. Doug is spying on them

from the safety of the crowd. Jacey winks at Doug. Doug

shakes his head in wonder.

PHILADELPHIA) - DAY (MONTHS LATERLATE FALL, 1959)

Doug walks along the sidewalk towards the entrance of the

theater carrying some rolled-up plans under his arm. He

reacts as he sees:

Pamela Abbott walks across the quad. Pam is 19 years old

now, her beauty in full bloom. Doug jogs over to her.

The traffic light changes and the other pedestrians cross

the street.

Doug watches her cross the street.

Doug is revising a set design -- deeply concentrating on

his task. He's startled by a KNOCK on the door.

Doug comes down the wide stairs with a puzzled look on

his face. He stops at the front desk and the student

clerk points to another part of the lobby. Doug walks

across the cavernous lobby and finds Pamela Abbott

slumped in a chair.

Pam laughs and Doug suddenly realizes:

Pam awkwardly rises and Doug guides her to the door.

Pamela leans against the side of the building as the fire

escape ladder descends to the pavement. Doug climbs

down.

Pam keels over and vomits.

Pam sits on the bed as Doug pulls her stained turtleneck

sweater off over her head (she's wearing a bra).

He undoes the waist of her pants and tugs on her pant

legs, but her panties start to slide off along with her

pants.

He holds her panties in place while he struggles to get

her pants over her hips.

Doug rinses out Pam's clothes in a sink.

Pam's wet clothes have been draped over the radiator.

Pam is passed out, tucked in under the covers. Doug sits

on the edge of the bed gently cleaning her face with a

damp washcloth.

Doug   stirs from his sleeping spot on the floor (he slept

with   his clothes on). He notices that Pam's clothes have

been   removed from the radiator. He sits up and finds

that   the bed is empty. She's gone.

Pamela approaches her dorm carrying an armload of books.

She starts up the steps then stops when she sees Doug.

He walks away.      She calls after him.

Doug lounges on his bed reading a textbook. It is

raining outside. He is startled by a TAPPING on the

windowpane. Pamela is outside on the fire escape. He

ignores her.

He gets out of bed, unlatches the window, then returns to

the bed and his book. Pamela opens the window (with

difficulty) and climbs in. She drapes her wet coat over

the radiator and sits in the desk chair.

Doug doesn't respond -- he turns the page of his book.

Doug snaps his book shut.

Pam is stung by his flippancy, she begins to cry.

Doug leads Pam by the hand down the aisle from the lobby.

He escorts her up a short flight of steps and positions

her center stage near the footlights.

He takes the work light with him as he walks off stage.

Then with a METALLIC CLANK everything goes dark.

There's the RUMBLE and SQUEAK of a piece of SCENERY being

rolled onto stage -- then the SWOOSH of a backdrop being

lowered from the fly loft.

We hear Doug RUNNING somewhere backstage then a beautiful

sunset slowly illuminates the stage -- creating the

perfect mood for the modestly scaled stylized set that

Doug has put into place: It is the roof of a weathered

farmhouse with a dormer window and a tall brick chimney.

Doug steps on stage, he's a bit winded from his quick-

change routine.

They kiss -- then Pamela pulls away.    Doug studies her,

then:

Pam climbs down off the stage and starts up the aisle.

Pam walks up the aisle and disappears through a door to

the lobby.

Doug turns and finds Jacey at the foot of the stairs.

Doug continues up the stairs -- Jacey pursues him.

Doug spins and delivers a wild, roundhouse punch that

lands brutally on the side of Jacey's face -- the impact

knocks him down onto the steps. Jacey's eyebrow has

split open, he is blinded by blood.

Doug walks away, leaving Jacey sitting on the steps,

clutching a banister for support. He presses his palm to

his eyebrow to squelch the flow of blood.

Doug approaches Pam's dormitory.

Doug steps up to the female student CLERK (#2) at the

front desk.

His pain is so clear that it spurs the Clerk's sympathy.

The Abbott house is decked with snow. Doug sits    behind

the wheel of the Plymouth. He's parked down the    street.

He smokes a cigarette and stares at the house --   the

pavement outside the driver's window is littered   with

butts.

Alice comes out on the street laden with packages and

shopping bags. She's startled by Doug when he falls in

beside her and follows her down the sidewalk.

Alice turns and steps into another shop -- leaving Doug

behind on the sidewalk.

PERRY COMO SINGS "The Little Drummer Boy" ON the

TELEVISION. Doug rises from the sofa.

Helen is peeling apples to make a pie.   Doug enters and

studies her for a beat.

Doug wants to avoid the topic of Jacey.    He opens the

refrigerator.

He does a bemused take on her.

Doug takes out two bottles of beer and opens them.

He pulls out a chair for her. She reluctantly comes over

and sits down. Doug sits and proposes a toast.

Helen laughs girlishly.

Her remark cracks Doug up -- Helen laughs, too.

Doug dissolves into tears. He lowers his head and

shields his eyes with his hand. Helen leans over and

strokes his hair. After a few moments, he rises and

wipes away his tears with a dish towel.

INVENTING THE ABBOTTS - Rev. 3/20/96                   107.

Eleanor looks at him.

Eleanor doesn't reply.   She turns and walks away.

The distance between Jacey and Doug is telling, as is the

difference in their behavior. Doug leans against a wall

with his hands in his pockets, his eyes cast down on his

shoes. Jacey roams the alley unable to stand still for

grief. He lights a fresh cigarette off the butt of

another.

The FUNERAL DIRECTOR appears in the back door:

Helen's closed casket is surrounded by floral tributes.

Doug and Jacey enter from a door near the casket -- they

pause in reaction to the crowded parlor, it overflows

with mourners. Jacey explodes under his breath, so that

only Doug can hear:

Jacey turns and walks out through the door they came in.

Doug walks over to his seat in the front row -- he

hesitates when he sees Lloyd Abbott standing in the back

of the parlor.

Doug takes an envelope out of his coat pocket and puts it

on the table.

Jacey opens the envelope and studies the yellowed

document.

Doug follows Jacey to the door of the bus. Neither one

of them knows how to say good-bye, after an awkward beat:

Doug turns and walks away.   Jacey climbs onto the bus.

Doug drives home from the bus depot in the old Plymouth.

He slows as he sees... the party tent in the Abbotts'

front yard (with its canvas sides rolled up).

Susan's third birthday party is underway, dozens of well-

dressed children and their parents are in attendance.

Alice (who is very pregnant) and Peter Vanlaningham and

Lloyd and Joan Abbott watch Susan riding her new pony, a

gift from her grandparents. A new generation of Abbott

parties has begun.

A "For Sale" sign has been placed on the front yard.

Doug pulls up the driveway in the Plymouth. He turns OFF

the ENGINE but doesn't get out of the car. Then he

STARTS the CAR again and backs out of the driveway.

Despite it being a birthday party for a three-year-old,

this is very much a grown-up affair. The band is

playing, the adults are dancing, Joan Abbott is flitting

from guest-to-guest, Alice is dutifully silent while

Peter dominates the talk at their table, Lloyd is with

his cronies. Doug enters the tent -- one-by-one the

guests take notice of him as he works his way across the

tent -- and all are very aware of his uninvited presence

by the time he reaches Lloyd Abbott. Lloyd scrutinizes

Doug, then:

Doug follows Lloyd into the dark-paneled room.

Doug closes the door.   Lloyd lights a cigarette.

Lloyd is startled by Joan as she opens the door.

He hurls his GLASS at her and it SHATTERS on the door

jamb. Joan recoils in dumb-founded shock and backs out

of the doorway. Lloyd fumes over and slams the door shut

in her face. He leans against the door and catches his

breath.

He pours himself a fresh drink, then turns to Doug:

NIGHT

Doug navigates the busy sidewalk to the entrance of the

building. He checks the number over the door to the

address on the scrap of paper in his hand.

NIGHT (MINUTES LATER)

Doug knocks on the door. Eleanor opens it, she's dressed

for work in her stewardess uniform. She's obviously

surprised to find Doug on her doorstep, but she greets

him with a warm smile.

SIDEWALK - NIGHT (SHORT TIME LATER)

Pamela dresses a mannequin in the display window. As she

moves behind the mannequin to fasten a garment she sees

Doug standing on the other side of the glass watching her

from the sidewalk. Doug writes a message on the plate

glass window with his index finger (printing the letters

in reverse so that the message is legible from Pam's

POV); his message reads: "I love you."

(MOMENTS LATER)

Pamela comes out of the store via the revolving door and

finds Doug waiting for her on the sidewalk.

Pam's eyes fill with tears. Doug steps over to her and

embraces her tenderly, holding her close.

He wipes her tears from her cheeks with his fingers, then

gives a short, but sweet, kiss. Then he smiles:

