FADE IN:

INT. VICTORIAN ESTATE - 1895 - DAY

CLOSE UP: Ornate antique GRANDFATHER CLOCK strikes 2:15.

The credits begin to roll.

Calligraphy place cards are painstakingly hand-written in

preparation for a formal reception.

Servants meticulously clean an elaborate crystal chandelier.

Hands rapidly shine silver cutlery.

Fresh flowers arranged in several enormous vases.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Kitchen clock strikes 2:15.

Poultry plucked. Feathers everywhere.

Steaming copper pots boiling over. Platters prepared with

decorative garnish.

Extravagant tiered cake is lavishly iced. A glob of frosting

enters a pair of puckered lips. The perpetrator, a fey,

pompous, HEAD VALET, seriously considers the texture and

flavor of the icing, then gives the PASTRY CHEF a withering,

sour look.

The valet, oblivious to the chef's fury, gathers a prepared

silver breakfast tray and checks his pocket watch. 2:15.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Antique bedside table clock -- just past 2:15. The valet

throws open velvet drapes, sunlight FLOODS the room revealing

a figure sleeping soundly in a massive oak framed bed. The

valet puts down the tray, pulls back the quilt.

The dozing figure gives the valet a deliberate, angry KICK.

Flinching infinitesimally, the valet crosses to the closet,

selects three suits and holds them up for inspection. From

beneath the puffiest of pillows, AN EYE reluctantly opens. A

weary arm points decisively to the riding outfit.

EXT. ESTATE - DAY

The riding outfit is adorned by LEOPOLD, Duke of Albany, a

dashing, virile man in his 30's. GALLOPING with great abandon,

he expertly leads his horse up hills and over hedges. He

sends gardeners shaping the grounds fleeing from his path.

In the background, lanterns are being strung throughout the

estate. Rugs are beaten out of open windows.

INT. HALLWAY - EVENING

Large hallway clock -- 6:15. A pair of boots track a freshly

scrubbed floor as Leopold heads carelessly up the stairway.

Three steps behind, the valet snaps his fingers signaling

the staff to clean up the mess.

SERIES OF CLOSE UPS

Gaudily framed portraits of somber relations.

A bird sits listless in a gilded cage.

Hot water is poured into a bath.

Carriages begin to arrive.

Orchestra leader signals the musicians to play.

Guests fill the ballroom in formal attire.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Leopold stares haughtily into a full length mirror.

He wears only dotted linen drawers and a black silk top hat

of the period. He flexes slightly. The valet hastily fastens

a corset around his mid-section from behind.

Leopold eyes his reflection seductively. He becomes bored.

He turns to his right. The valet spoons sorbet from a silver

saucer into his mouth. He turns back to the mirror to watch

himself eat. The valet pats his mouth dry.

He affects a pampered STRUT, crossing the room as the valet

sprays a mixture of perfume and powder into the air. Leopold

thrusts out his arms walking through the mist, turns and

saunters back to his favorite place, in front of the mirror.

Finally, as if weighing a great decision, Leopold hands his

hat to his valet and nods firmly into the mirror.

CLOSE UP

Fine linen undervest slides over his head.

Black twilled worsted trousers pulled up to his waist.

The buttoning of his hard, white, roll collar.

A cream suede glove stitched in black slides over his hand.

A perfect tight bow tie is tied around his neck.

An elegant black tuxedo jacket with silk facings and tails

to the knees is fitted to his torso.

His hair is sleeked with oil and centrally parted.

His eyebrows are brushed with a tiny silver comb.

His cheeks are pinched.

A red silk handkerchief is placed in the bosom of his lapel.

Leopold stares into the mirror. The effect is DAZZLING. He

raises one eyebrow. Then, in a voice you could pour over a

waffle:

He bows. As he rises, the reflection of Leopold's UNCLE OTTO,

a pampered, effectual man in his 60's, appears behind Leopold

in the looking glass.

Leopold, stung, takes a moment to compose himself.

He leaves. Leopold stares into the mirror, snaps his fingers.

The valet hands him a glass and pours a small shot of brandy.

Leopold shoots him a look. The valet fills the glass higher.

Leopold drains the glass and heads to the doorway. He

hesitates, taking a deep breath and a long pause. Finally...

Without looking back, Leopold leaves the room.

INT. BALLROOM - NIGHT

Music fills the air as the creme de la creme of Victorian

society gather inside. Leopold holds a prearranged dance

card. He looks at the names and finds his first partner is

MISS TREE. Leopold looks upward helplessly at an unrelenting

God.

INT. BALLROOM DANCE FLOOR - NIGHT

A profoundly self-conscious Leopold dances energetically

into frame with MISS TREE, an ancient, elfin, yet amazingly

SPRY woman who gapes up at him searchingly, unblinking.

Leopold opens his mouth to speak, can think of nothing

suitable to say, and clamps his mouth shut. They dance out

of frame.

INT. BALLROOM DANCE FLOOR - NIGHT

Leopold dances into frame with CLARA, a BEAUTIFUL girl of

19. He glances at her and smiles. She titters, turning away

shyly. They whirl around the dance floor. His smile grows

into a broad grin. Caught up in the excitement, Clara beams

up at him... happily revealing a mouth full of missing, inky

teeth.

Leopold, face frozen in a formal smile, dances on.

INT. BALLROOM DANCE FLOOR - NIGHT

Leopold lumbers into frame with MISS FAIRCHILD, a woman of

immense girth. With great dignity and extreme difficulty he

maneuvers her around the floor, looking everywhere except

her enormous bosom.

Miss Fairchild curtseys heavily. Leopold glances at his card,

sees the name Miss Serena Clacket and shudders.

He spots a VERY LOVELY WOMAN hidden amongst the guests. She

scribbles in a small note pad, occasionally glancing around.

Hiding his dance card, he saunters over.

The young woman stares vacantly at Leopold until she realizes

he is addressing her. She puts her pad away.

Leopold takes her hand and kisses it gently.

Leopold regards her curiously. The orchestra starts up. There

is a hubbub amongst the guests.

Leopold spots Uncle Otto observing him from across the room.

Leopold stiffly holds out his arm. A beat. Carlson, stuck,

takes it WITH HESITATION and is escorted to the dance floor.

They dance. ALL but Leopold and Carlson gaily sing "TA-RA-RA-

BOOM-DE-AY." Leopold, flushed, looks quite smitten. Carlson,

shy at first, eventually smiles brightly.

They half sing, half speak the TA-RA-RA-BOOM-DE-AY, their

emphasis on "BOOM." Laughing giddily, their dancing becomes

freer, picking up speed. The room SPINS. Finally:

There is a slight pause. The Grandfather CLOCK strikes

midnight.

Leopold takes a glass of champagne from a passing waiter. He

watches Carlson pass through the crowd and out the courtyard

door. He surveys the room. After a moment he follows her.

EXT. GARDEN - NIGHT

Leopold makes his way through the manicured garden in the

dark. He hears an EERIE METALLIC SOUND. He slows down, brushes

back the thicket. The silhouette of a woman is revealed. She

is once again writing in her notebook.

Carlson spins around quickly, panicked. Leopold STOPS.

Partially hidden in the brush, a sleek, oddly shaped,

MECHANICAL device. It's door open, lit from within, casting

a weird glow.

Leopold moves toward the contraption and is about to touch

it...

Carlson shakes her head, unsure of how to proceed.

Leopold carefully examines the apparatus, stepping inside.

Carlson FREEZES.

His hand comes to rest on a glowing red lever.

She YANKS on his arm. Instinctively he pulls away,

accidentally thrusting the lever into action. Carlson falls

from the machine.

The machine LIGHTS UP.

The compartment door snaps shut.

There is a BRIGHT WHITE FLASH. Blackness fills the screen.

INT. N.Y.C. LABORATORY - 1995 DAY

The compartment door slides OPEN revealing DR. KAU, 30's, an

Asian doctor with a THICK BROOKLYN ACCENT. Her face full of

enthusiasm drops as she sees the unconscious Leopold.

She turns to her co-workers, warning them.

She looks back at Leopold.

Her co-workers, DR. PLODDER, austere, authoritative, DR.

DRAKE, muddled and timid, peer inside the compartment door.

Dr. Drake and Kau make a move to inspect an unconscious

Leopold.

They approach Leopold. Dr. Kau finds Carlson's note pad on

the ground next to Leopold. She reads the last entry.

They all look at one another, then back at Leopold.

INT. LAB - KATE'S OFFICE - DAY

KATHERINE COLES, a radiant workaholic, types frenetically

into the computer while talking on the phone, trying hard

not to sound upset.

She stops typing and listens for a while. She runs her hand

through her hair.

The line goes dead.

Dr. Plodder bursts in. Kate sees his distress and instantly

becomes very centered.

He hands her Carlson's note pad. Slowly, she sits down.

INT. LAB - DAY

There is a stunned silence. They stare at Leopold in awe.

They all nod in agreement.

She forces back panic. Only the tremor in her voice gives

her away.

No one moves.

They nod reluctantly. Drake writes out names and throws them

in a cup. The silence becomes deafening. Finally:

All the scientists face her.

She reaches in. They wait with mounting suspense. Finally

SHE TURNS TO KATE. The scientists follow her gaze. A beat.

Leopold stirs. He blinks at the group.

The doctors, caught off guard, SMILE BENIGNLY. They surround

Leopold as a group, not knowing where to begin. Finally:

They all laugh nervously. Leopold does not.

Leopold nods at them as if they are insane.

Leopold starts to speak.

Awkward pause. Leopold looks carefully around the room for

the first time: modern mechanical equipment, data shifting

and changing, giant cooling devices, bright neon lighting.

The doctors are silent.

Leopold leaps up. The doctors follow him around the room.

He's out the door.

INT. UNDERGROUND HALLWAY - DAY

Leopold moves quickly, fearfully through the darkly lit

hallway, the doctors close behind.

It is too late. Leopold throws open the door and runs

upstairs.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Blinding sunlight. Skyscrapers. Automobiles. Traffic lights.

Road construction. Modern day pedestrians. Helicopters. Car

alarms. Leopold stands frozen, overwhelmed, taking it all

in.

The doctors reach him. He collapses to the ground.

INT. CAR - DAY

Kate and Dr. Kau talk quietly. Leopold, tightly holding onto

his seat and the back door, gazes out the window in utter

disbelief.

Leopold, trembling, gapes at the sights, every day sounds,

magnified. Perspiration runs down the side of his face. Kate

watches him in her rear view mirror.

Dr. Kau stares at Kate in concerned silence.

INT. BEDROOM - THE NEXT MORNING

Leopold awakens alone in his room. He sits up with a jolt.

His stomach sinks as he realizes THIS IS NO DREAM. He slowly

rises to his full stature, moving to the window he looks out

on the modern day city, shaking his head in awe. He makes

his way to the bedroom door and tentatively touches the knob.

There is a KNOCK on the door.

Leopold JUMPS back and runs to the bed: The picture of

dignity.

She smiles.

Leopold regards her dubiously.

Leopold watches her with great interest. Finally:

Kate grabs the teacup grandly and leaves the room.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Kate rummages through every drawer, shelf and cupboard

searching for the honey. Finally, she spots the honeybear

and squeezes honey A TAD TO VIOLENTLY into the tea. She tries

posing "confidently" then checks her reflection in the

toaster.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

Kate returns "confidently" with the tea and a plastic smile.

Leopold doesn't react.

She moves in close to him, making Leopold uncomfortable.

She rings a tiny dinner bell. He is about to speak.

Kate is forced into a stunned silence.

Leopold looks at her blankly.

Kate tinkles the bell, fumbles for the knob and heads out.

P.O.V. still on Leopold.

Leopold reacts.

Leopold listens at the door. He slowly opens it, takes two

steps out, peers around the corner, then quickly steps back

in. He takes a DEEP FRIGHTENED BREATH and slowly deflates.

INT. CHARLIE'S STUDIO - MORNING

Charlie sits on the couch smoking a cigarette surrounded by

his paintings. He is a likable twentysomething with a big

mouth.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Leopold PEEKS around the entrance to the living room.

Confident it's unoccupied, he majestically walks inside: Up

to date gadgetry, Charlie's modern art work, bright

fashionable furniture. Leopold recoils. His eyes come to

rest on the television set. The ON OFF buttons loom large.

He looks around the room then brazenly presses the button

ON.

Instantly, REGIS and KATHY LEE loudly berate each other before

an excited crowd.

Leopold jumps back several feet, hands flailing in front of

him as if shooing away a bee. He quickly, yet cautiously,

slams the power OFF.

He quickly scurries out the hallway.

He stops abruptly. He remains very still. Composing himself,

he turns and deliberately faces the room. After a moment, he

purposefully steps back inside.

He makes a large ARC around the television set, is confronted

by one of Charlie's sculptures and makes an ARC around that.

He finds himself in front of a light switch and gingerly

examines it. As he does, track lighting ILLUMINATES the room.

He looks at the lights then back at the switch. He flicks

the lights ON and OFF, trying to figure out the precise moment

in the transfer of power, laughing in spite of himself.

Kate and Charlie enter. They watch Leopold flicking the

lights, laughing like a madman. Charlie gives Kate a look.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Leopold sits at the head of the table, Kate and Charlie

banished to either side. Leopold chews his dinner incessantly.

He pushes his plate away.

Charlie gives Kate a look.

He pours catsup on his dinner.

Kate and Charlie leave. The camera remains on Leopold, sitting

alone, calmly sipping his wine. VOICE OVER FROM THE KITCHEN:

Leopold reacts. He listens self-consciously.

They emerge from the kitchen, beaming.

INT. KATE'S BEDROOM - 6:30 A. M.

Radio alarm clock -- 7:45 a.m. Louis Armstrong begins to

sing, "Let's Call the Whole Thing Off." Dressed in yoga

clothes Kate sits on her bed in the lotus position. She bangs

the gong and closes her eyes. A bell rings. Kate flinches

but does not open her eyes.

The bell rings louder, interrupting Kate's routine.

Leopold's bell rings with determination. Kate is off the bed

and out of the room.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Kate enters and stops short. Leopold sits at the table ringing

a BELL. The dishwasher is open and SPRAYING WILDLY, the

blender has spread breakfast shake EVERYWHERE, water is

BOILING OVER on the stove, refrigerator, freezer, and every

cupboard door is OPEN. Garbage disposal runs FULL BLAST.

CLOSE UP: Leopold's hand rings a bell with irritation.

INT. CHARLIE'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Leopold, Kate, and Charlie stand in front of Charlie's open

closet. Leopold selects clothes from Charlie's wardrobe.

He tosses them aside carelessly as Charlie seethes.

CLOSE UP: Leopold rings his bell.

INT. HALLWAY - EARLY MORNING

Kate and Charlie form a line to the bathroom. Kate checks

her schedule and bangs on the door.

INT. BATHROOM - EARLY MORNING

Leopold Luxuriates in the bathtub wearing a "Whitecap"

marveling at the whirlpool and the instant hot water. He

picks up a can of shaving cream and inspects it in wonder.

It SPRAYS.

CLOSE UP: Leopold rings his bell. Nothing happens. He

discovers the clapper has been stolen.

INT. KATE'S STUDY - AFTERNOON

Kate types, talks and researches simultaneously. She looks

up and stops suddenly.

Leopold appears wearing MANY oddly assorted layers of

Charlie's clothes, a bandanna bow tie, Irish woolen cap,

bicycle gloves, aluminum baseball bat walking stick. He poses

foppishly.

Kate nods at him stupefied. Due to the many layers of

clothing, he imperiously leaves the room walking as if wearing

skis.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Leopold rings a BIG NEW COWBELL. No one responds.

INT. CHARLIE'S WORKROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

He discovers Kate at her computer, Charlie reading a book.

Each are wearing a walkman.

He stands in front of them and rings his cowbell furiously

until they look up.

INT. STUDY - DAY

Leopold studies his questionnaire, Kate researches Victorian

customs. They simultaneously look up and gaze at the other.

A beat.

Embarrassed, Kate dons her glasses and Leopold shuffles

papers. They look up again. Then down. Then get back to work.

INT. KATE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Kate sits on her bed with her laptop watching David Letterman.

She glances up, laughs out loud. She looks at the dark empty

room. No one is there to share it with. Closing her computer,

she holds her pillow close to her. She slowly moves to the

window and looks out.

INT. LEOPOLD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A text book with Leopold's picture inside. Leopold reads the

brief summary of his life with heartbreaking astonishment.

He moves to the window and looks out.

EXT. N.Y.C. APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Kate and Leopold gaze out of their windows. The camera slowly

pulls back until they are swallowed up by the city.

INT. KATE'S STUDY - AFTERNOON

Kate scans her notes as Leopold paces dully about the room.

A fire engine races by. Leopold dashes to the window then

turns back, excited.

Kate stares at him blankly. She munches RICE CAKES and drinks

water FROM THE BOTTLE. A beat. She returns to her notes.

Kate rises.

He grandly hands her a napkin.

Brushing herself off, she heads to the door.

Leopold waits.

She storms out.

INT. LAB - EARLY MORNING

Dr. Drake enters Dr. Kau's office with two pints of Haagen

Dazs.

They dig in.

Kate enters, exhausted, deposits an armful of papers on Dr.

Drake's desk. Kate has pencils tucked behind her ear, through

her hair, and in her mouth.

INT. CHARLIE'S STUDIO - EARLY EVENING

She heads out the door. Charlie follows.

INT. LIVING ROOM - EARLY EVENING

Kate takes a LONG pause.

EXT. KATE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - LATE AFTERNOON

Peaceful. The sun sets. Pigeons rest on window sills.

Suddenly:

The pigeons take flight.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - EVENING

Leopold leaves Central Park profoundly lost. Looking both

ways in the wrong direction, he crosses the street. SCREECHING

brakes, HONKING horns, FURIOUS shouts with Leopold, horrified,

caught in the middle. He makes it across shaking and dazed.

A motorist pulls along side of him.

Leopold GAPES, appalled. A Hansom carriage slowly treads

into Central Park. Leopold watches until it disappears.

INT. KATE'S GREEN A.M.C. PACER - NIGHT

Kate drives slowly, searching for Leopold. Cars honk with

mounting anger.

She continues searching, trying hard to remain calm.

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT

Huge buildings. Neon lights flashing. Garbage in bundles.

Calvin Klein Ads. In the center of it all, Leopold, jostled

BADLY by the crowd, tipping his hat to all the ladies. He

enters a deli.

INT. DELI - NIGHT

Leopold, appalled by the prices searches for money. He has

none.

He moves on.

He comes out from behind the counter. He's big.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Leopold is thrown out of the store and on to the street.

No one responds. Leopold is left sprawled on the street.

Thunder is heard.

EXT. N.Y.C. - NIGHT

Gargoyles at New York City Library, The Dakota, the Bowery,

Alphabet City.

EXT. CLAIRMOUNT STABLES - 4 A.M.

Pouring rain. Leopold stands in front of the stables beaten

and drenched. A car drives by, screeches to a stop, and

hastily backs up along side Leopold.

Leopold stares at the car. Kate runs out, opens the door and

helps him in. She dashes back into the drivers seat.

INT. CAR - 4 A.M.

She hits him hard.

She rests her head on the steering wheel, exhausted. She

pulls herself together and looks at him.

Kate gently observes Leopold who stares rigidly straight

ahead.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Kate and Leopold walk in wet and exhausted.

There is a long pause.

They look at each other just a second too long.

They self-consciously head to their respective rooms.

Kate is struck by his vulnerability for the first time and

is moved. She catches herself quickly however.

They stand at their bedroom doors.

Leopold smiles, still shaken. A beat. They slowly close the

doors to their respective rooms.

INT. HALLWAY - BRIGHT SUNNY MORNING

Leopold, dressed for an outing knocks on Kate's bedroom door.

Leopold enters. Kate stands in a slip calmly looking at

Leopold. Leopold immediately turns, facing the door.

He reaches around behind his back and fumbles for the knob.

He finally finds it and goes out.

Kate smiles.

EXT. N.Y.C. - DAY

the Brooklyn Bridge, the Chrysler Building, Rockefeller

Center, 5th Avenue.

EXT. 5TH AVENUE - DAY

Kate and Leopold exit The Gap. Leopold awkwardly wears hip

Gap casual clothes, a baseball cap on his head.

Kate places the cap backwards on his head. She nods

approvingly.

Leopold watches himself in store windows. He CAN'T comprehend

it. Kate leads him into Barney's.

INT. BARNEY'S - DAY

Leopold stands before the mirror wearing a classic dark suit.

He looks FANTASTIC. A fact that is not lost on Kate.

Kate nods back begrudgingly, her breath taken away.

EXT. N.Y.C. - DAY

Lincoln Center, Columbus Circle, Gristedes.

INT. GRISTEDES MARKET - DAY

Kate selects a shopping cart, begins to push it.

Kate walks ahead. Leopold, maneuvering a cart with a broken

wheel, hasn't the knack and bangs into everyone and everything

in the aisle.

CLOSE UPS: Leopold scrutinizing vegetables in cans, cereals

for kids, bottled water, instant soup, feminine hygiene

supplies.

The check out line. As their groceries are being rung up,

Leopold spots The Sun, a newspaper with the headline: Woman

Sees Satan in her Microwave Oven. Leopold eagerly shows Kate.

Leopold reads the paper totally enthralled.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Kate and Leopold walk down the street, a bag in each arm.

Leopold eyes Kate suspiciously.

They continue to walk, Leopold noticeably studies Kate.

Finally:

Leopold spots a formal dress in a store window. He takes a

good long look at Kate, smiles, then quickly walks inside.

Kate continues down the block.

She looks around. Leopold is gone.

She starts off down the street, stops, and enters ROBERTA'S,

an upscale boutique.

INT. ROBERTA'S - DAY

Kate races in. Leopold talks with a saleslady.

INT. ROBERTA'S - DAY

From behind the dressing room door, Kate shouts to the others

with irritation.

Kate leaves the dressing room in a huff COMPLETELY UNAWARE

that she is STUNNING.

Leopold and the saleslady stare at her with pleasure.

She turns and looks at herself in the mirror. Leopold stands

behind her, pulls back her hair, brushes away her bangs.

Even Kate cannot deny that she is lovely. She stares at

herself for a long while.

They become aware of their close proximity. They nervously

part.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Kate sits Leopold down on the sofa. She turns on the TV and

hands him the remote control.

She aims the remote at the TV, changing channels. He's

spellbound.

INT. DINING ROOM - EARLY EVENING

Dinner is served. Kate waits patiently for Leopold who sits

on the sofa watching the TV.

He does not move a muscle.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Kate and Leopold sit on the sofa eating their dinner and

watching TV. On the screen, a Looney Tune. Leopold enjoys

this especially. Kate reaches for the remote but Leopold

grabs it territorially, refusing to relinquish it.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Leopold asleep on the sofa still clutching the remote control.

Kate comes in with a blanket and settles it over Leopold.

She glances around the room, then slowly bends down close to

capture a better look at his face.

After a moment she catches herself, takes herself in hand

and sits down at her computer. She opens her notes and types.

Her fingers slow down to a crawl and come to a stop. She

looks up at Leopold lost in thought. She smiles.

Reaching for a soda, she accidentally knocks a picture to

the floor. In a SMASHED frame, Kate and CARLSON drunkenly

mug for the camera. Kate pales noticeably.

She looks from the picture to Leopold. Slowly, she begins

pecking away at the keys. She does not look up again.

INT. LAB - LATE AFTERNOON

Kate gives Leopold a tour of the lab stopping by Dr. Drakes

area. Hidden behind chalk boards, calculator paper, and

several empty Haagen Dazs containers, Dr. Drake searches for

solutions.

They move to Dr. Kau's area.

Dr. Kau merely grunts. Leopold looks at Kate.

They head into Kate's office.

INT. KATE'S OFFICE - DAY

Kate gathers her belongings, Leopold snoops at her notes.

They stand together, Leopold grinning sheepishly.

As she gathers her belongings, Leopold spots a very high

heeled red shoe in Kate's bag.

Kate looks at him skeptically.

Kate hesitates.

She shakes her head and walks out the door.

EXT. N.Y.C. STREET - LATE AFTERNOON

Kate heads down the stairs of a subway station. A few feet

behind, Leopold cautiously follows.

INT. SUBWAY STATION - RUSH HOUR

Kate waits in line at the turnstile. Leopold, a ways back,

grimaces noticeably at the smell.

Kate heads through. Leopold follows banging painfully into

the bar. A NUN hurriedly bumps into him from behind.

He tries pushing the bar but it doesn't budge. He turns around

to step out of line but it is already too long. He stands

NOSE to NOSE with the nun.

The nun deposits her token and SQUEEZES them both through as

the train arrives at a deafening pitch, startling Leopold.

He spots Kate entering the train and jumps into the car in

the nick of time. The train departs, Leopold pressed awkwardly

against the glass.

EXT. N.Y.C. STREET - EARLY EVENING

Kate races from the subway station, entering the Arthur Murray

Dance Studio. Leopold, thoroughly disheveled, follows at a

distance.

INT. DANCE STUDIO - EVENING

Elderly Blue haired couples chat amongst themselves, men on

the right, women on the left. Kate, in dance clothes, out of

breath, stumbles in, making a b-line for the women's side.

Mrs. Pincus executes a fancy spin, proudly showing off her

purchase. Across the room, MR. Pincus beams in anticipation.

An elderly, overly made up dance instructor enters. She claps

her hands together loudly.

The men slick back their hair. The women straighten their

gowns. Kate stands to the side, self-consciously studying

the floor.

The men take their places on the dance floor. They flick

their hand twice, inviting their women to dance. Cooly,

elegantly, the women approach their partners. After a while

Kate looks up, relieved. She stands alone. Ballroom music

plays.

The couples effortlessly shift between steps and turns. Kate

dances with an imaginary partner, stumbling, more than a

beat behind, counting, animated, a concentrated YEARNING

look spread across her face.

The instructor approaches with a look of resignation.

Kate does. Her instructor shakes her head and moves away.

Across the room, through the window, Leopold watches, moved.

LEOPOLD'S P.O.V. -- Over the music, beyond the swirling

couples, Kate remains in the corner, dancing with her

imaginary partner, fighting valiantly for the right steps,

muttering to herself, dancing alone.

INT. LAB - MORNING

Dr. Kau SLAMS a large book on Dr. Plodder's desk startling

him.

Photograph of a SWEATSHOP 1896. The conditions are APPALLING.

Positioned among the workers, Julia Carlson, thin, ragged,

worn out, stares helplessly into the camera.

The doctors stare at the photograph. Powerless.

INT. CHARLIE'S STUDIO - DAY

Charlie and Leopold work at their easels. Leopold sighs

HEAVILY.

There is a pause.

Leopold looks worried. Charlie puts down his brush.

As Leopold struts across the room Charlie shakes his head

and spontaneously begins to hum Sousa's Stars and Stripes

March. Leopold becomes more and more agitated. As the song

crescendos:

Charlie hops up, casually walks around the room and begins

to hum a more relaxed version of Stars and Stripes.

Leopold begins humming the more casual version of the song

and mimics Charlie.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

VOICE OVER: Charlie and Leopold joyously singing The Stars

and Stripes. As the song builds:

Charlie enters leading Leopold throughout the room. Leopold

matches Charlie EXACTLY step by step so tightly they appear

to be one person marching happily about.

EXT. N.Y.C. - DAY

Chinatown, Little Italy, chess in Washington Square Park.

EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK - DAY

Leopold and Charlie explore the city. Leopold works diligently

on his walk. A beautiful woman walks by in a revealing outfit.

Charlie catches Leopold watching her and smiles broadly.

Leopold, caught leering, turns away sheepishly and smiles.

Charlie pats Leopold on the back. Stops. Pats his back again.

Cracking up, Charlie good-naturedly puts an arm around

Leopold's shoulder. Leopold attempts the same pulls away.

INT. BLOCKBUSTER RECORDS - NIGHT

With a headset on, Charlie listens to music. Leopold watches.

Charlie stops the music and places a headset over Leopold's

ears. Leopold watches calmly. Charlie selects a song.

Instantly, Leopold's shoulders rise up to his ears. His mouth

opens wide.

After a bit, Charlie turns the music off. Leopold's shoulders

go down but his mouth stays wide open. Astonished.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

Charlie and Leopold walk through the park. A rubber softball

hits Leopold squarely on the head.

A couple race over. The man is BLACK. The woman is WHITE.

Their child, ELIZABETH, 7, follows wide eyed and apprehensive.

Leopold regards them curiously.

Leopold stares hard at the modern familial scene. He doesn't

speak. After a long moment:

Charlie braces for the worst. The little girl stares at

Leopold.

She picks his right hand. Nothing. She picks his left.

Nothing. Leopold looks surprised then pulls the ball from

his ear. She takes the ball and smiles at him.

Elizabeth makes an embarrassed face.

Charlie and Leopold continue through the park, Leopold lost

in thought. Charlie watches him in surprise. They walk on.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Leopold talks animatedly. On the table -- Pumpkin pies, pizza

pies, and pot pies.

He eats a large spoonful of pudding. Kate and Charlie exchange

a worried look.

He eats another spoonful.

There is an awkward pause. Leopold is so enthusiastic and

sincere that despite a feeling of disaster Charlie relents.

Charlie gives Kate a look of death as we:

EXT. CAFFEINE - NIGHT

Charlie and Leopold approach Caffeine, a trendy coffee house.

Charlie looks in the window.

INT. CAFFEINE - NIGHT

Patrice, a tall blonde sits at a large round table, talking.

She is very beautiful.

EXT. CAFFEINE - NIGHT

Leopold walks his casual walk inside, followed by a very

reluctant Charlie.

INT. CAFFEINE - NIGHT

Charlie's friends are sitting at a table talking. They are a

relaxed and friendly group. Charlie and Leopold approach.

Charlie pulls out a chair for Leopold but Leopold sits next

to Patrice instead. Patrice takes out her cigarettes.

Leopold takes a cigarette, lights one for Patrice, then his

own.

INT. SUBWAY - NIGHT

The subway car is inhabited solely by Leopold, Charlie, and

the oldest Ukrainian woman in New York City. Despite the

fact that the train is empty, they are all seated on the

same bench.

Charlie stares straight ahead refusing to even look at

Leopold. The Ukrainian woman hangs on every word.

Charlie bursts into ironic laughter and looks at the old

woman. She rolls her eyes.

The old woman nods.

INT. LEOPOLD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Kate enters with an arm load of Leopold's discarded clothes.

She drops them on his bed and begins to hang them in his

closet.

A notebook falls from his pants pocket. She puts it on the

bureau. A beat. She quickly picks it up, sits on the edge of

the bed and starts to read.

She flips a page.

Kate smiles. She flips the page.

The front door is heard slamming. Kate, alarmed, stuffs the

notebook back in Leopold's pocket. She races to the door;

glances back at the notebook, turns off the light and scurries

from the room.

INT. HALLWAY - LATER THAT NIGHT

The corridor is darkly lit. Kate leaves the bathroom as

Leopold enters. They collide and separate but remain close

together. Both are dressed in pajamas and speak softly.

Leopold looks at her a moment.

She reaches her door. Leopold stops her.

She turns. Leopold grasps for the words but the habit of

inaction returns.

INT. PATRICE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Charlie stands at Patrice's door with a large painting. He

looks over at Leopold hiding the next doorway over. Charlie

knocks. She opens the door.

He hands her the flower filled painting.

Patrice shyly studies the painting.

Charlie quickly looks at Leopold pleadingly. He really does

not want to say this next part. Leopold, however, is adamant.

There is a long pause. Patrice watches Charlie in disbelief.

They smile at each other for a long moment.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Kate is by the bookshelf gathering reference books on time

and space. Leopold enters. He is suddenly embarrassed and

doesn't know how to proceed.

She moves to her computer on the other side of the room.

Leopold follows. Before she can sit down, Leopold pulls out

her chair. She falls to the ground. He rushes to her side

immediately.

She opens a reference book and slowly begins typing at her

computer. There is a pause.

She stops working and looks at Leopold.

She resumes her work.

Leopold stares blankly.

Charlie peaks in, signaling Leopold, spurring him on.

Surprised, Kate turns around and looks at Leopold.

Leopold sits at the far end of the room. Kate takes a moment

then resumes typing. She STOPS and sits back in her chair.

After a long moment, she subtly unplugs the computer with

her foot and starts banging on the top of it.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

Leopold trots his horse expertly along the horse path. Kate

follows, clutching the horses neck, bouncing like a clown.

Leopold turns and rides around Kate.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

Bethesda fountain. Boats on Central Park Lake. Couples in

Sheeps Meadow.

Holding the reins of Kate's horse in one hand, Leopold grasps

Kate's waist with the other as they ride a single horse

through the greenery of Central Park.

EXT. MOVIE THEATRE - THE THALIA - DAY

A revival house. On the Marquee: "The Tenuous Duke" starring

Ronald Coleman.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - DAY

Kate and Leopold eat popcorn, Milk Duds, M & M's, and large

drinks. The lights go down and the movie begins.

The enormity of the medium strikes Leopold at once. He

involuntarily leans back in his chair grabbing Kate's

shoulder, watching attentively. After a bit:

Kate looks over at Leopold and nods. Through his eyes, she

too experiences movies for the first time. She moves close

to him.

EXT. N.Y.C. - DAY

Grammercy Park, The Guggenheim Museum, Central Park Plaza,

The Metropolitan Museum.

EXT. METROPOLITAN MUSEUM - DAY

Kate and Leopold bound up the steps, entering the museum.

INT. MUSEUM - DAY

Modern art exhibit. Leopold stares blankly at an empty white

canvas. He turns to Kate questioningly.

Leopold eyes the painting skeptically. They move to the next

object d'art. A toilet.

They burst into giddy laughter.

They round the corner, moving to the next room. Leopold's

smile fades.

CLOSE UP: A painting of privileged Victorian society.

Shaken, he gazes at a painting in a dream-like state.

Kate smiles sadly at Leopold. They slowly walk out.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

We hear keys in the lock and laughter outside as Kate and

Leopold enter.

They collapse on the couch.

Kate gets up. Leopold automatically stands.

As she gets to the door, she stops.

Kate smiles at Leopold and goes out.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Charlie, in a tie, is standing with Leopold at the dining

room table. Kate wearing too much makeup for her date, runs

into the bathroom in a BRIGHT RED DRESS.

Charlie and Leopold move across the room. After a beat,

Charlie magnanimously gestures for Leopold to go first.

Leopold gives his approval. Kate rushes out of the bathroom

in a tight BLACK dress.

Leopold and Charlie elegantly walk to the table. Charlie

sits down, pleased. Leopold remains standing, incensed.

Leopold takes a cloth napkin, hits Charlie upside the head.

Hard.

Charlie stands up and pulls out the chair. As Leopold sits,

Charlie pushes the chair in to hard.

Charlie gently glides Leopold to the table. He remains

standing, not sure what to do next.

Leopold and Charlie stand. Kate poses in the gown picked out

by Leopold. Leopold smiles brightly.

She looks at Leopold not knowing what to say. Finally

The doorbell rings.

She opens the door and looks straight up. Leopold and Charlie

peer in closer to get a better look. In the doorway stands

LARRY, great looking, very tall, a winner.

Kate turns back to the others with a frozen smile.

She is gone. Leopold stares after her, dejected.

INT. SPORTS BAR - NIGHT

Kate and Larry are led to their table. Larry sits down. Kate

remains standing.

He snaps his fingers to get the waiters attention startling

Kate. She laughs nervously.

Their laughter subsides. After a beat:

INT. THE FOUR SEASONS - NIGHT

The Maitre d' of this very fancy restaurant shows Charlie

and Patrice to their seats. Charlie motions Patrice to go

first just as Leopold has instructed.

The Maitre de pulls out Patrice's chair. Charlie gives him a

look to back off. Charlie effortlessly glides Patrice to the

table and takes his seat.

Charlie smiles and places her hand over his heart. Then he

makes his jaw drop again. Patrice laughs happily.

INT. SPORTS BAR - NIGHT

Kate and Larry are eating their dinner.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Leopold slowly carries a dinner tray to the dinning room

table. He moves to the window and looks out. After a while

he pours a glass of wine.

INT. SPORTS BAR - NIGHT

As they eat their dinner Larry drones on.

Kate stares absentmindedly at Larry, her mind somewhere else.

She looks down at the fork in her hand. She switches to the

proper one, reflecting on Leopold's etiquette. She notices

her napkin lying flat on the table. She reaches for it.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Leopold unfolds his napkin and puts it on his lap. He begins

to eat his dinner. Slowly. Elegantly. Alone.

INT. SPORTS BAR - NIGHT

Kate places the napkin on her lap. She stares at it a long

while. Finally she looks up at Larry.

EXTREME CLOSE UP OF LARRY

Then as she leaves, a parting shot.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Sound of keys in the lock, then Kate bursts through the door.

The living room is dark and empty. She goes through the living

room, past the hallway, into the bedroom.

His bedroom is empty. He is not there.

She runs into Charlie's studio and stops short.

Next to Charlie's stern paintings, Leopold's portrait of

Kate shines in the moonlight. She wears an antique dress.

She is lovely. Kate sees herself as Leopold sees her and is

touched. She turns and collides head on with Leopold.

He is wearing gloves and an apron. He rubs his bruised head,

inadvertently leaving a trail of suds along his face.

She moves in close, trying to remove the soap from his face.

He wipes his face making it much worse.

She uses the apron to wipe away the soap. They gaze at each

other and become serious.

They kiss. A long romantic passionate kiss.

They separate. A beat. Leopold gestures for Kate to go first.

They head down the hallway together into their separate rooms.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The table clock chimes eight times. Leopold enters from the

kitchen dressed perfectly in the most UP TO DATE style. He

carries a casserole dish.

A second later Kate enters from the hallway. She is wearing

an OLD FASHIONED, ANTIQUE DRESS. She looks lovely.

Leopold opens the casserole dish.

Kate smiles. She looks behind him into the kitchen. A COLOSSAL

MESS. Leopold lights the candles and pulls out her chair.

This time she's prepared. He slides her chair to the table.

INT. LIVING ROOM, LATER THAT NIGHT

The candles have burned down, casting a romantic glow

throughout the apartment. Louis Armstrong's "What a Wonderful

World" plays. Kate and Leopold sit on the couch sipping wine.

They kiss. Anxiously they stare into each other's eyes. They

kiss again. Slowly, Kate leads him to her bedroom door. They

look at each other, deciding.

Deliberately, cautiously, Kate opens the door.

Kate puts her fingers over Leopold's lips. Gently she leads

him inside. They slowly embrace as the door closes.

INT. BEDROOM - THE NEXT MORNING

Sunlight floods the room. Clothes are scattered about. Two

figures lie curled up together sleeping in bed. One of the

figures rolls around. The covers are pulled back revealing:

They kiss.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Leopold wearing a bathrobe is pouring coffee. The table is

set for a huge breakfast. Kate also in a robe enters from

the hallway. There is a moment of awkwardness as they see

each other for the first time.

They kiss shyly. Kate notices the feast.

He pulls out a chair for her and kneels beside her.

Leopold takes her hands in his. She looks at him defensively,

bracing for worst.

Kate lets out a very girlish, high pitched scream

They switch places. Leopold sits and Kate kneels beside him.

He kisses her. It's impressive.

Charlie enters. Kate and Leopold become extremely

selfconscious.

Charlie is immediately aware that something is not quite

right. He studies the two of them and nonchalant sits at the

table. Kate and Leopold serve themselves breakfast.

Kate nods. As Leopold pours, they look at each other shyly.

She pours Charlie's coffee until it overflows.

As Kate wipes up the table, Charlie notices her ring. He

eyes Leopold suspiciously. Leopold concentrates on his plate.

Charlie gives Kate a questioning glance. She smiles at him,

looking both innocent and guilty at the same time. After a

beat:

All smile privately and sip their coffee without another

word.

INT. LAB - NIGHT

Buried behind open books and crumpled up paper, Kate labors

in earnest.

She stops suddenly, almost violently, and studies the notes

in front of her. The coffee cup falls from her hand and

breaks.

She covers her papers and self consciously cleans up her

mess. She sits down slowly and peeks at her notes. She has

SOLVED THE PUZZLE that will send Leopold back.

She looks up in disbelief and glances through her window

around the lab. Everyone is hard at work. Helplessly, she

stares back at the paper on her desk.

She pulls open her drawer and takes out the picture of

Carlson. She stares at it for a long time. She opens her

mouth to call for the others, stops, and looks at the photo.

Slowly, with great indecision, Kate crumples up the paper.

She returns the picture to the drawer. After a long moment,

she opens a book, feigning research, her mind a million miles

away.

INT. KATE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Leopold and Kate sit on her bed watching David Lettering.

Kate clutches her pillow close to her. She looks over at

Leopold concentrating on the TV with furrowed brow. She smiles

sadly. She takes her pillow and flings it off her bed. She

snuggles up to Leopold. They watch TV. Together.

EXT. N.Y.C. - DAY

Central Park in full bloom, Botanical Gardens, The Frock

Museum.

INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

Leopold and Kate eat lunch. Leopold scans a newspaper. On

the TV over the bar, Bob Dole is speaking out against gun

control.

INT. BLOOMINGDALES - DAY

Customers fill the aisles. In the center of it all, Leopold

is hard at work. He holds a bottle of perfume.

He squirts some at her.

She leaves. Leopold looks after her.

INT. KATE'S LABORATORY OFFICE - MORNING

The doctors enter Kate's office and closes the door.

There is a long pause. Slowly Kate realizes the doctors are

on to her. She puts down her pen.

Kate nods. The doctors slowly leave the room and close the

door. Just the sound of the clock ticking.

Kate sits at her desk very still.

INT. KATE'S BEDROOM - EARLY EVENING

Charlie knocks and enters.

He sees her face. Kate's eyes are red and swollen. She lays

out Leopold's belongings.

He goes to her.

Kate remains silent.

INT. FANCY FRENCH RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Leopold looks at her.

Kate remains silent. Leopold abruptly throws money on the

table.

We starts out.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Leopold walks out of the restaurant trying to remain calm.

His emotions get the best of him. Finally, exhausted, he

winds up walking along Central Park South.

Hansom Carriages wait to be taken out. He approaches slowly.

He stops along side one of the cabs and strokes the horse's

head.

He looks at the horse for a long time. Then he looks at the

skyscrapers surrounding him, deciding what to do. He lays

his face against the horse's head, torn.

INT. LIVING ROOM - EARLY MORNING

Kate sits at the dinning room table behind empty Sara Lee

boxes, pints of ice cream, beer bottles, and is working her

way through the cookie dough. Leopold enters through the

front door, DISHEVELED.

There is a long pause.

Leopold goes to her. He gently prys cookie dough from her

hands.

They kiss.

They kiss.

They kiss.

They kiss.

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

Leopold and Kate sit calm and resolute. The doctors are in

an uproar.

There is a stunned silence.

INT. BEDROOM - 2:30 A.M.

A clock is ticking loudly. Kate and Leopold lie back to back.

She slowly turns. She embraces him.

EXT. N.Y.C. STREET - NIGHT

Dressed to the nines, Leopold leads a blindfolded Kate through

the street. She is clumsier than usual.

She takes off her blindfold and looks up at the sign:

ROSELAND.

He takes her arm and escorts her in.

INT. ROSELAND - NIGHT

Leopold leads Kate to the dance floor. He opens his arms and

Kate steps in the way she was taught in class. Leopold pulls

her close.

This time there is no pretending. Partnered together, they

shine. They move beautifully, effortlessly. It's almost more

than they can bear. As the music plays, they stop. Leopold

holds Kate tightly. They look at each other for the longest

time.

INT. LABORATORY - EARLY MORNING

Large screen computers are working overtime. Kate, Leopold,

and Charlie accompany the doctors to the capsule. It is nearly

time.

The doctors leave.

He sticks out his hand.

She takes out a ring and slips it on his finger.

They kiss.

They kiss again for the last time.

Leopold holds Kate's face in his hands. Very slowly they

part.

Leopold takes his place in the machine and straps himself

in. He places one hand on the red lever and the other against

the glass pane on the door. Kate comes over and places her

hand over his. Wordlessly, they say goodbye.

After a moment, Dr. Kau gently moves Kate away. Dr. Plodder

silently raises his arm, signaling Leopold.

Leopold shifts in his seat, his eyes never leaving Kate's,

his hand still against the glass.

Kate smiles tenderly at Leopold.

Dr. Plodder drops his arm signaling Leopold. Leopold pulls

the lever, still gazing at Kate. There is a blinding FLASH

of light, then darkness.

INT. LAB - MONTHS LATER

Kate raises her head. She sits at her desk surrounded by the

doctors.

Kate rises and moves to the window. She is a full NINE MONTHS

PREGNANT.

She gazes out the window, searching the horizon.

EXT. A SMALL FARM HOUSE - EVENING

Down from the horizon, a farm house. LEO COLES, 5 years old,

rocks on his front porch swing. Using his bare hands as

puppets he carries on a conversation. JULIA CARLSON pulls up

in her car.

Kate comes out on the porch. She looks lovely.

The two women scream, run to each other and embrace.

INT. KATE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Kate heads straight for the kitchen. Carlson scans the living

room before joining her.

Although rustic on the outside, the inside of the house is

furnished with antiques and is Victorian in style.

She picks up the cup and saucer but it shakes so violently

she has to put it down.

There is a LONG PAUSE. Carlson gets the tea ready. Finally:

Kate stands by the back door, looking out at Leo.

Kate nods, trembling slightly.

INT. FARM HOUSE - NIGHT

Kate stands in the doorway as Carlson drives off.

Leo shows off his teeth.

Kate wraps herself in an old blanket and moves through the

house turning off the lights. It is very guiet. All we hear

are Kate's footsteps and the sound of the clock ticking.

She makes her way upstairs, enters her bed room. She sits

down by the window at her desk. She sits a long time lost in

thought.

She slowly pulls open a drawer and from deep inside pulls

out an old photo album. She opens it and begins to look

through.

THE PHOTO ALBUM

Inside, old black and white photographs, newspaper clippings,

magazine articles trace Leopold throughout his life.

A photograph of Leopold looking as he did the night he

departed this world. He stands stiffly beside his family for

a formal portrait. Very discreetly, he points to a ring. It

is the same ring Kate gave him.

A newspaper article shows Leopold donating $100,000 to

establish a scientific center researching studies in time

and space.

A magazine picture shows Leopold, the sole male figure,

marching to give women the vote.

A photograph of a large formal wedding. Leopold, around FIFTY,

stands alone in the wedding party, surreptitiously pointing

to his ring.

A magazine article shows Leopold in his SIXTIES establishing

a scholarship program for studies in physics. He is surrounded

by academia and subtly points to his ring.

A photograph of Leopold around SEVENTY shaking hands with

Albert Einstein and smiling broadly for the cameras.

A professional photograph of Leopold at SEVENTY FIVE, sitting

regally in a chair. Beside him, an EMPTY chair. He rests one

hand on the back of the chair. The other he holds against

his chest, showing off the ring.

An obituary with the headline, "Philanthropist, 80, dies in

bombings.

A tear falls on the page.

Kate cries silently, looking out the window. The camera

follows her gaze past her property...

INT. BANQUET ROOM - YEARS LATER

LEO, 24 and his BRIDE take to the floor for the first time

as husband and wife and are greeted with applause. Kate,

older, beautiful, hair cut short, looks on in wonder.

Charlie, standing with Patrice and their 6 blonde children,

approaches Kate and leads her to the dance floor.

Julia Carlson, under dressed, over anxious, enters the banquet

hall. She stands at the back of the large room, searching.

Couples fill the dance floor. Across the expansive room,

over the tops of heads, Charlie and Kate bob amongst the

guests. Leo cuts in. As they spin, in the briefest of seconds,

Kate spots Carlson. She pales. They TURN.

Kate peers over Leo's shoulder. Her eyes lock with Julia's.

Julia nods with purpose. Kate holds onto Leo tightly, not

wanting to let go. She buries her head in his chest.

From behind, her shoulders shake as she cries.

INT. CONTROL BOOTH - NIGHT

From behind a glass partition, Carlson works at her console.

A monitor counts away the seconds. 59, 58, 57... In the

darkened lab, Kate, dressed in early 1920s attire, straps

herself in and smiles tearfully. Their voices echo in the

lab.

They embrace each other for the last time.

He puts his finger to her lips. He looks to his wife then

back at Kate. He nods his head.

They force themselves to smile, trying to get through the

moment.

Charlie, Leo and his new bride stand back. Inside the craft,

the only light comes from the glowing red lever. Carlson

raises her arm, signaling Kate. Then to her staff:

Kate presses her hand against the glass as a final goodbye.

She grabs the lever with her other hand and turns away,

staring straight ahead. Charlie puts his arm around Leo.

There is a BRIGHT WHITE FLASH. Kate is gone. The others stand

there motionless, stunned.

The screen is BLACK.

EXT. A LARGE VICTORIAN ESTATE - 1924 - NIGHT

A FLASH of light illuminates the forest at the Albany estate.

A BEAT. Kate races from the forest onto a massive lawn,

stumbling in mud as she hurries to the mansion's entrance.

INT. BALLROOM - NIGHT

Huge double doors open to reveal -- AN ORNATE BALLROOM. The

creme de la creme have gathered and dance. Kate overwhelmed,

rushes down an elaborate staircase. Half way down she looses

a shoe. She hesitates briefly then continues to the dance

floor.

In the center of the floor, Leopold, looking very

distinguished and attractive, dances with a flirtatious young

woman. Try as she might, Leopold keeps her at a distance.

The music changes: A LIVELY CHARLESTON. Leopold heaves a

sigh of relief and makes his way through the crowd, up the

staircase.

The dancers become an intricate maze, a dead end at every

turn as Kate searches each male face.

In the foreground, Leopold is stopped by a woman midway up

the stairs. As they chat, Leopold reaches down and picks up

the muddy slipper, offering it to her. She turns in a huff,

flouncing down the stairs.

Simultaneously, in the background, Kate desperately looks

for Leopold.

Leopold studies the slipper as he makes his way up the stairs.

He slows down, hesitates and STOPS. Very slowly he turns

around. He becomes very still. TEARS well up in his eyes.

The ballroom clock strikes MIDNIGHT.

Kate climbs an opposite staircase to get a better view then

STOPS. In her heart SHE KNOWS. Slowly she turns. Leopold

stands quietly at the bottom of the stairs, gazing up at

her. He extends his arm, showing her THE RING. He offers her

his hand.

The crowd, the room, THE WORLD AROUND THEM, DISAPPEAR. Their

eyes lock. As she descends the staircase, THE YEARS MELT

AWAY. Kate's short hair grows long, cascading around her

shoulders. The fine lines around Leopold's face are gone.

They see themselves through each other's eyes, at the moment

of youth, when they fell in love.

Leopold bends down, places the slipper on Kate's foot. He

rises, looks down at his hands and then up at Kate. His hands

are caked with mud. She smiles helplessly. Not caring, he

wraps his arms tightly around her.

MUSIC begins to play, a slow waltz. He nods to her. She takes

a deep breath. Her head bobs in rhythm. She begins to count

silently. Leopold smiles, counting along.

THEY DANCE...

An elderly couple watch Leopold with interest.

Kate and Leopold dance past. They are older. As they gaze

into each other's eyes, they twirl. THE LOOK OF YOUTH RETURNS.

At the center of the floor they stop dancing. THEY KISS. The

rest of the world dances around them.

Over this background... THE SCRAPBOOK PICTURES BLEED ONTO

SCREEN.

The old formal wedding photo becomes a photograph of Kate

and Leopold the perfect bride and groom, both discreetly

point to their rings.

Kate stands with Leopold as he establishes a scholarship for

studies in physics.

The old photograph of Leopold and Albert Einstein changes to

include Kate, waving and smiling broadly for the camera.

The professional photograph becomes a double portrait. It

shows the two in their 70's, sitting regally in matching

chairs. They hold hands and smile serenely. Staring directly

into the camera, they show off their rings.

SLOWLY the scrapbook closes...

Kate and Leopold dance, the music swells as they become lost

in the crowd. The clock CHIMES. Slowly we...

