FADE IN:

EXT.  ROUTE 476 - OUTSKIRTS OF PHILADELPHIA - NIGHT

A three lane highway relegated to one lane.  The serpentine

line of cars bottlenecks as it slithers by.  An arch of

ORANGE AND RED FLARES outlines the area of shattered glass

and twisted metal.

We are at the site of a gruesome car accident.  An ambulance

and four police cars are on the scene.  Two cars are involved

in the crash.  The first, a SILVER CADILLAC with its front

caved in a perfect semi-circle; there is no-one inside the

car.

The second car is a different story entirely.  A DARK GREEN

HONDA PRELUDE crushed against the concrete median that

separates the South-bound lanes from the North-bound lanes.

All the windows have imploded.  The original seventeen foot

length of the car, compressed to ten.  The hood has folded

back into the front seat.  This car is not empty!  Through

the sliver that used to be a window, WE SEE a female hand,

purple, swollen and bloody.

Some drivers have stopped their cars on the shoulder and have

walked over to the flares.  A set of cops wave them back.

OFFICER PIERCE speaks to a female OFFICER DANA.

Pierce gestures to a HISPANIC TEENAGER who is cuffed behind

his back and being led to a police car.

Pierce lets it sink in.

Dana checks the papers in her hand.

Pierce looks back at what remains of the HONDA PRELUDE.

Beat.

CLOSE UP of the hypnotic RED AND BLUE LIGHTS that consume the

highway.

EXT.  ROAD - EARLY MORNING

Just AFTER DAWN.  A gentle mist hangs in the air.  The calm

suburban streets wait to be flooded with a sea of middle

class homeowners on their way to work...

A woman's REEBOK CROSS-TRAINERS move along the sidewalk...

long, brisk steps, steps people have when walking with a

purpose...

The Cross-Trainers enter the doors of a bakery store seconds

after a man turns a window-sign from "CLOSED" to "OPEN"...

This happens with precision timing, not losing a step... a

well practiced routine.

INT.  ANGELO'S BAKERY - MORNING

ANGELO, a large man, black slicked hair -- has laid out three

identical loaves of RAISIN BREAD on the counter.

We finally see the person standing in the REEBOK CROSS

TRAINERS... MRS. ELLEN PARKER, a woman in her forties with a

heart-warming smile and wise glint in her eyes.  The kind of

woman that somehow becomes more beautiful with age.

She carefully squeezes each loaf.  Her hand hovers over the

middle loaf.

INT.  KITCHEN - MORNING

Twenty minutes later.  The basket of the "chosen" raisin

bread is placed on the center of a table.  Ellen covers it

with a cloth napkin.

The eggs sizzle in a pan.  We find Ellen cooking breakfast.

A stunning African Grey Parrot sits proudly on Ellen's

shoulder.  CLAUDE is a breathtaking creature with grey

feathers and a cherry red tail.

The DOOR BELL RINGS.

FRONT DOOR

where a delivery man hands over a bouquet of VIOLET ORCHIDS.

Claude, still perched on Ellen like a clothing accessory,

spreads his impressive wings defensively.  The delivery man

scans the far wall to find a collection of bird photographs.

A dazzling collection of all kinds of birds, elaborately

framed and hung.

Ellen signs the release and closes the door.  She takes a

deep smell of the violet orchids and looks down the hall to

the open bedroom door with a glowing smile.  We CATCH A

GLIMPSE of a man dressing.

KITCHEN

Where Ellen and her husband are eating breakfast.  Claude is

now in a cage in the hallway.

MR. MAURICE PARKER eats a buttered piece of raisin bread.  He

is a man in his late forties, neatly combed hair, his New

York Times folded into a manageable rectangle.  This is a man

who has been seated a great deal of his life... the type of

man who breaks into a sweat when taking out the garbage.

He feels a stare and looks up to find his wife with that

glowing smile.  He smiles back.

Ellen gestures with her eyes to the violet orchids now

displayed proudly on the window ledge.

Maurice studies them.

Beat.  This takes Ellen by surprise.  Maurice catches the

expression.

Maurice reaches over and searches the bouquet.

Maurice pulls out a small bent card from between the stems.

Maurice hands Ellen the card, she looks at it uninterested.

Ellen begins to eat.  Maurice stares at her...

Beat.

Ellen instantly becomes emotional.

Ellen returns to eating.  Maurice stares at her quietly.

INT.  BOOKSTORE - MORNING

A SHAFT OF LIGHT penetrates the darkness of a room... growing

LARGER as the door swings open.

Ellen steps in first followed by Maurice.  Ellen goes

straight for the blinds.  BURST OF LIGHT stab the room.

The spines of the BOOKS catch the light... rows and rows of

books cradled by a maze of mahogany book shelves.  This is an

old-fashioned store with antique chairs at select places.  A

coffee table sits near the window with a set of deep

cushioned sofa-chairs.  This store is a home...

Maurice moves behind the counter and TURNS ON THE RADIO.

CHOPIN FLOWS from the old speakers atop the corner shelves --

delicately.

Ellen opens the door to the store and locks it in that

position with a slanted piece of wood... The store is now

open.

INT.  BOOKSTORE - DAY

Half a dozen people wander the isles.  Maurice's eyes drift

to a pair of eleven year olds who have sauntered into the

store.  One boy disappears behind "Philosophy" and reappears

momentarily with his sweat-shirt zipped up to his neck -- a

rectangle is outlined under his shirt.

Maurice comes around the corner -- the boys HAUL ASS out of

the store.  They're long gone before Maurice reaches the

door.  He yells after them.

Ellen who is sitting in the back room doing the accounts,

comes out when she hears the commotion.

Maurice inspects the "Philosophy" section.

Maurice looks up as a young man, early twenties, hurries in.

KRIS REDDY walks past Maurice, his black locks of hair

peeking out from under his Philadelphia Eagles cap.

Kris waves as he removes his jacket.  He is wearing a PARKER

BOOKS T-shirt underneath.  He pins an "Assistant Manager" tag

on.

Maurice thinks to himself.

Kris notices as Maurice goes back to searching the isles.

Maurice moves back behind the counter clearly irritated.

Kris quickly opens his black shoulder bag and pulls out a

mini-tape recorder.  He talks into it -- dead serious.

CLICK.  The tape recorder returns to the bag.  Ellen stares

at him curiously.

Ellen nods with realization.  Ellen and Kris turn their

attention to Maurice who is mumbling to himself angrily.  He

looks out the window to the street to see a familiar group of

school boys waving at him tauntingly.

INT.  CHINESE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

DIMLY LIT.  Red and gold paper mache lanterns are sprinkled

around the room.  WE FIND Ellen and Maurice polishing off a

dish of General Tso's Chicken.

Ellen is not listening.  She is staring at a young couple two

tables over, who can't take their eyes off each other.

Maurice finally notices Ellen is not listening.

Maurice needed the support.  His face brightens.

LATER

An empty table.  The dishes have been cleared.  Maurice and

Ellen are opening their fortune cookies.

Beat.

Beat.

Maurice notices the STRAIN IN HER VOICE.

Customers react.

Maurice is getting redder by the second.  The entire

restaurant hangs on his response...

The waiter closest to the table cringes with Maurice's words.

Ellen drains of color.  She stares at him in complete and

utter disbelief.  She drills him with this iron glare for an

eternity then grabs her purse and heads to the exit.  Maurice

stares at the table for a moment to gather what's left of his

dignity and follows her out.

The waiter moves to the table and clears the aftermath.  He

sees Ellen's fortune crumpled next to her tea cup.  He

unravels it.  The fortune reads...

INT.  BEDROOM - DAY

The room is LIT BY ONE BEDSIDE LAMP.  Maurice is sitting in

bed wearing a robe.  Reading glasses at the end of his nose

as he rubs a yellow cloth over a SILVER MEDALLION.  The

medallion has a raised picture of a lamp, the kind Aladdin

uses, seated on an open book and the words BOOK SOCIETY -

1992.  Maurice meticulously rubs away the smudge marks.

Ellen is at the edge of the bed -- as far from Maurice as

possible.  Her back is to him as she sleeps under the covers.

She speaks without turning around.

Maurice studies the impressive silver medallion.

Maurice has no answer.  He just stares at his hands.

ELLEN'S face can be seen under the covers facing away from

Maurice.  Her eyes are red.  The tears roll off her nose and

land on the pillow unseen and unheard.

INT.  KITCHEN - MORNING

The kitchen table is mockingly empty.  No bread.  Not even a

crumb.  Maurice, dressed for work, eyes the table with great

resolve.  He rubs his hands together ceremoniously.

Maurice moves to the fridge and gets out two eggs, onions,

green peppers and mushrooms.

CLAUDE is chirping INCESSANTLY FROM THE HALL.

The pile teeters precariously in Maurice's arms as he moves

to the counter.  Next the pans come out -- He tries to pull

the bottom pan from the cabinet --

BEDROOM

Ellen is seated in bed, arms crossed -- equal resolve in her

face.  A LARGE METALLIC CRASH OF POTS ECHOES FROM DOWNSTAIRS.

Ellen grabs her robe.

HALLWAY

Ellen gently takes Claude out of his cage.  She kisses him.

The bird, once frantic, instantly at peace.

Ellen feeds the bird as she peeks around the corner, careful

not to be seen.  Maurice is desperately trying to cook an out

of control omelette.  It spills over the sides and SIZZLES on

the range top.  He tries to scoop it up with the pan, tilting

it further -- further -- the entire omelette slides onto the

range.  Maurice frantically tries to wrangle it back in.  Man

vs. Egg.  Man losing.

Ellen has to keep herself from laughing.  Her expression

changes to pity as she watches the chaos unfold.

INT.  BAKERY - MORNING

Ellen scrutinizes a new three loaves of raisin bread.

Angelo smiles and packages the chosen loaf.

INT.  KITCHEN - MORNING

A defeated Maurice is eating an apple.  He looks up with

surprise as Ellen walks into the kitchen from the back door,

a bag under her arm.  She glances at him and then moves to

the counter where she prepares the bread for serving.  Ellen

looks down into the trash to find the rebellious omelette

sitting uneaten.

The bread gets laid out in its usual basket, in its usual

manner.  Maurice says nothing as Ellen pulls two eggs from

the fridge and cracks them on a sizzling pan with expert

ease.

Maurice smiles warmly at his wife's back before moving to her

and hugging her from behind.  He whispers in her ear.

Beat.

Maurice reaches over and turns off the stove.  He then turn

Ellen around and kisses her long and hard.  Ellen pulls away

gently and stares into his eyes.  Maurice looks very

emotional.

Ellen kisses Maurice and returns to the eggs.  Maurice

continues to hug her from behind.  The MORNING SUN pours into

the kitchen covering Ellen and Maurice in a golden bath.

INT.  EMPTY STORE - AFTERNOON

A large black man wearing a dress shirt, sleeves rolled up to

the elbows TURNS ON a switch.  A SET OF TUBE LIGHTS FLICKER

TO LIFE.

CARL STONE leads Maurice out to the main room which is

presently a cob-web infested, barren space with a few

discarded packing boxes left in the corners.

Maurice runs his fingertips against the wall.

His hand makes a grand swirl pointing to another area.  He

says the next two words with great awe as if he was saying

something holy.

Carl watches curiously as Maurice walks around in a trance.

He moves to the bay window that over looks the street.

Maurice's already bright eyes, brighten even more as he spots

the security guard strolling up and down the front of the

jewelry store.  The guard catches his stare and waves.

Maurice is aglow... He turns to Carl.

Carl has to smile -- rarely does he see someone so happy.

INT.  OFFICE ROOM - AFTERNOON

We are in Carl's cramped upstairs office... just enough room

to walk amongst the file cabinets.

Maurice holds his pen over the documents before him.

Carl smiles patiently, he's seen this before.

Maurice gathers his strength as he puts pen to paper... He

scribbles his signature quickly and let's the pen drop to the

table top as if all the energy drained from his body.  He

looks up to Carl with powerful eyes.

Beat.

Carl and Maurice shake hands like best friends.

INT.  HOUSE - NIGHT

A wine chiller sits proudly on the coffee table.  The SOUNDS

OF LIGHT CONVERSATION float through the room.  About ten

friends and family have gathered.

Maurice sits on the sofa nearest the window.  He's listening

to the drone of TED PRICE.

Ellen is not present.

Everyone near the SOFA LAUGHS.  A CAR LIGHT DANCES ON THE

CURTAINS... Maurice quickly pulls the curtain aside and

watches as the car pulls past the house and around the

corner.  Maurice turns back from the window hiding his

concern and without missing a beat...

This brings on another ROUND OF LAUGHTER.

THE TELEPHONE RINGS.

Maurice rises from his seat -- but is waved off by ADELLE

MATLIN who picks up the phone right away.  Adelle is

Maurice's niece, early thirties, very attractive and always

smiling -- except at this moment.

Ted begins another one of his stories -- the words are

incoherent as Maurice watches Adelle carefully... Adelle

turns her back to the room as she talks and then DISAPPEARS

into the kitchen stretching the phone cord around the

doorway... Something is definitely wrong.

Maurice steadies his gaze at the door of the kitchen...

eternal seconds pass before Adelle appears again.  She looks

different -- ghostly.  She glances up for a fraction of a

second locking eyes with her uncle -- she immediately looks

away.

Maurice watches Adelle move to her husband GERALD and

whispers in his ear.  Gerald changes instantly -- taking on

the same ghostly transformation -- his eyes dart to Maurice.

Ted's story is cut off as Maurice speaks LOUDLY...

The room goes SILENT as all eyes fall on Adelle and Gerald.

Beat.

This hits everyone in the room like a bomb.  A dread hangs

over every passing second... Gerald crumbles under the

moment... Adelle begins to cry.

Some of the crowd reacts.  A women covers her mouth.  The

moment is unbearable.

Gerald cracks -- the tears start to flow from his eyes.

Gerald buries his face into the heels of his palms as if

trying to contain an explosion in his head.

Maurice closes his eyes shut tightly... like a child scared

of the dark.

Adelle blacks out, knocking over the wine chiller on the way

to the ground.  In less than a minute the room has

transformed from a celebration to a mourning.  Everyone is

frozen staring at Maurice for their cue... A child in her

mother's arms begins to cry as if aware of the circumstances.

EXTREME CLOSE UP.  Maurice opens his eyes slowly.  The room

stays still as Maurice stares at Ellen's HAT sitting on the

piano.

EXT.  PARKER HOUSE - MORNING

A "FTD" Florist truck pulls up.  A delivery man, moves with

an extravagant bouquet of flowers to the front door.  He

RINGS THE DOOR BELL.  No answer.  KNOCKS.  No answer.

The delivery man looks to the ground and searches, before

placing the bouquet on the porch.

WE NOW SEE that the porch is completely covered with flowers,

bouquets and wreaths.  The delivery man tip-toes his way

through the maze of condolences and moves to his truck.

INT.  KITCHEN - MORNING

Maurice waits, as the SOUND OF THE FLOWER TRUCK FADES AWAY,

then looks into Claude's cage.  Claude sits on the highest

perch and continues to call to his mother.  Maurice stares at

the pile of untouched food on the floor of the cage.

LATER

Maurice seated at the kitchen table.

He looks at the bouquet of flowers still seated on the window

sill.  The violet orchids are all dead and shriveled up.

INT.  PARKER HOUSE - NIGHT

The house feels abandoned -- lifeless.

THE HOUSE IS SILENT EXCEPT FOR THE FRANTIC CHIRPING OF CLAUDE

FROM THE HALL.  His hopeless cries punctuating the air every

few seconds.

BEDROOM

Maurice sits in a chair facing Ellen's wardrobe closet.  The

LIGHTS IN THE ROOM ARE OFF.  The room is lit only by the

LIGHT FROM THE HALLWAY STREAMING IN AT AN ANGLE.

Maurice gets up and with a great deal of uncertainty, opens

the closet.  Maurice stares at the collection of hanging

dresses.

He reaches out and pulls the cloth of a floral dress towards

him... He closes his eyes and smells the cloth... his face

tightens in pain... both hands cling to the dress tightly...

he tries desperately, can't fight it -- Maurice Parker begins

to cry.

His hands grab frantically at the rest of the dresses --

pressing them to his face and chest.

He hugs the dresses as if they were her.  His weeping turns

to a torturous wail of grief... all the love, all the anger

spilling out in this one moment.

He falls to the ground yanking all the dresses down with him

-- they collapse atop him... He buries his face in his wife's

clothes...

The MUFFLED SOUND OF HIS CRIES ECHOES through the lonely

house.

EXT.  PARK - MORNING

The neighborhood park.  The trees in full bloom.  Maurice

walks down a path leading to the open fields.  Only mothers

with strollers and the elderly are out this early.

PARK BENCH

Maurice is seated on a park bench.  Across from him is an

ELDERLY COUPLE -- in their seventies.  The OLD WOMAN is frail

with tiny eyes that disappear when she smiles.  The husband

is a skinny man with a baseball hat that makes him look like

a little boy.

Maurice watches them silently as they sit and hold hands...

Their warm laughs and whispered conversations stinging him.

He watches as the old man gets up.  The old woman tries to

make him stay, but he playfully pulls away.  She shakes her

head like a shy school girl as the old man walks back down

the path by himself.

The old woman glances Maurice's way.

The old woman glances at the empty baby carriage standing

next to the bench.

Maurice gestures to the woman and baby who are sitting on a

blanket in the grass.

The old woman studies him.

Beat.

She nods, "Yes."

This hits Maurice hard.

This hits Maurice even harder.

The old woman looks down the path for her husband.

Beat.

Beat.

The old woman looks at him oddly.

She thinks hard... tough question.  No answer for a moment

then --

The old woman sees something out of the corner of her eye --

her husband is walking up the path with her white lace

sweater over his arm...

She smiles as the answer comes to her.

Maurice sits back -- her answer lingers in the air like a

haunting voice.

Maurice watches as the old man comes back and drapes his wife

with the sweater.  The old woman waves as they continue down

the path... hand in hand.

INT.  DOCTORS OFFICE - DAY

An obese woman with a hacking cough sits to the left of

Maurice... To the right, a man with a patch over his eye.

The nurse sticks her head outside the glass divider till

Maurice stands up.

EXAMINATION ROOM

DR. ROYCE checks a chart.  Maurice watches him from his perch

on the examination chair.

Dr. Royce folds his arms and waits... What's this all about?

Dr. Royce stares at him suspiciously.

The doctor is confused again.

Maurice thinks about it carefully as the doctor returns to

the chart.

INT.  AAA AUTO CLUB - DAY

A hip young woman with her forehead wrapped in a headband

chews away on a stick of gum.  JOSELLE leans over the counter

with Maurice and studies a map.

Maurice is a bit pale.  He follows the yellow highlighted

highways winding it's way across the U.S.

Joselle studies his concerned expression.

Joselle scrunches her face in exaggerated shock and takes a

step back to look Maurice up and down.

Maurice gives her a sad expression.  If she only knew.

INT.  NEW STORE - DAY

The future Parker Books.  The room sits as empty and barren

as before.

Maurice sits on the floor against the far wall.  He stares at

his new store.  His gaze turns to the window where the guard

strolls by.  The guard doesn't notice him.

Maurice looks terrible, his eyes red and framed by bags...

his skin a yellowish white.

He moves to his feet and TURNS OFF THE LIGHTS.

INT.  BOOKSTORE - AFTERNOON

Kris unloads the last of a shipment of books.  He moves to

Maurice who sits by the window to the street.  Maurice points

to a chair across from him and Kris takes a seat.

Beat.

Beat.

Maurice looks out the window and picks up an envelope from

the coffee table between them.  He hands it to Kris.

Kris opens the envelope and finds money.

Kris gets up.  A shock of adrenaline hits him.

Kris grabs his coat, shifting his attention between the

window and Maurice?

Kris moves to the door.

Beat.

Kris stops cold.  The door to the street half-open.

Kris is seriously confused now.  Maurice decides to end the

confusion.

Kris' jaw hits the floor as the bus pulls to a stop across

the street.  Kris pulls up his sleeve and glances at his

forearm.

Kris hesitates before darting out of the store, across the

street and into the bus.  Kris takes a seat in the back and

digs into his bag and pulls out the tape recorder.  CLICK.

EXT.  WYNNEWOOD PENNSYLVANIA - DAWN

A BRILLIANT RED HUE BLANKETS THE HORIZON.

The suburbs come to life...

Men and women leaving for work...

School buses picking up their cargo of passengers...

Store owners opening their businesses...

PARKER BOOKS

A group of eleven year old boys including the two

kleptomaniacs we saw earlier, are standing before a closed

door staring at a sign.  They look at each other before

heading down the block.

The sign reads:  CLOSED - OWNER OUT OF TOWN.

INT.  HOUSE - MORNING

The house is eerily silent.

Three things lay on the dining table.  A shoulder bag filled

with clothes.  A carrying bag with personals.  And a set of

maps.

Maurice checks the locks on all windows... He places all the

food in the refrigerator into a trash bag... He pulls out a

drawer and loosens a side panel, a wad of money flops out.

Maurice pockets the bills...

Maurice walks through the hall with a portable cage.  He

stops before Claude's hanging cage... no movement, no

chirping.  Maurice stares emotionally for a moment before

reaching in and carefully removing CLAUDE'S LIFELESS BODY

from the bottom of the cage.  Maurice looks down at the lost

pet in his hands.

EXT.  HOUSE - MORNING

Maurice buries the bird in the backyard.

DINING ROOM

Maurice sits at the table... the essentials laying before

him.  He clings to a wallet size photo of Ellen.

Maurice stands and gathers his things.

EXT.  PENNS LANDING - DAY

Maurice stands at the edge of the water.  Recreations of

historical ships are docked in the harbor.  The old fashioned

sails and masts sway in the gentle breeze.

The SOUNDS OF A STREET VENDOR catch Maurice's ears.  He turns

to see a funnel cake booth in a row of food stalls.

EXT.  TWENTY YEARS EARLIER - DAY (FLASHBACK)

The harbor is jammed with people.  A street fair is in full

swing.  The SOUNDS OF A LIVE BAND MIX WITH THE CRIES OF THE

STREET VENDORS...

MAURICE -- EARLY TWENTIES... Skinny, dark rich hair.  He

yells out from behind a booth of paperback books.

A young woman emerges from the crowd of browsers.  Maurice

begins to speak but is caught off guard by YOUNG ELLEN'S

beautiful features.  Maurice manages a few words.

Beat.

Maurice looks over to find an enormous man serving food.

Ellen places the soda she had at her side on the table.

Maurice is completely flustered.

Ellen places her hand out.  Maurice grabs it instinctively

and shakes.

Ellen looks at the full table of books.

Maurice nods "no."

Ellen waits for Maurice to say something but nothing comes

out.

Ellen's father BELLOWS FOR HER OVER THE CROWD.  Maurice jumps

at the sound.

Ellen disappears into a sea of people.  Maurice stands in awe

for a second before snapping out.  He shakes his head to

himself.

LATER - IN THE FAIR

The people are filing out of the street.  Maurice is a whirl

wind of activity as people wave dollar bills at him calling

out classical titles.

Maurice glances over to Ellen's booth.  She is watching him

with a big smile.  Maurice gestures to the line with a

shocked expression.  Ellen laughs.

FOOD STALL

The booths are packing up.  Ellen helps pack away the

remaining food.  A book is placed in front of her on the

counter.  The book is "Romeo and Juliet."  Ellen looks up to

see a very shy Maurice standing before her.  Ellen gives him

a smile that melts him.

Beat.  Maurice eyes Ellen's dad who throws him deadly

glances.  Maurice is very intimidated.  He whispers to her.

Ellen looks at him carefully... looks right through him.

EXT.  THE EDGE OF THE WATER - DUSK

The water reflects the lights from the harbor.  Maurice and

Ellen are standing very close.

Ellen looks out onto the water.

Beat.

Maurice is bright red.  Ellen giggles at his shyness.

Maurice gathers his strength and looks her straight in the

eyes.

Maurice leans forward and kisses her softly.

EXT.  PENNS LANDING - MORNING (PRESENT)

Maurice, tears in his eyes, stands in the spot they stood

many years before.

On this empty dock... on this hot day in September... with no

witnesses and no fan-fare, Maurice Parker takes the first

steps of his journey.

SUPERIMPOSED ON THE SCREEN:  SEPTEMBER 26, 1993

EXT.  STREET - DAY

A topless CHERRY RED WRANGLER JEEP pulls out of a mechanic's

garage and moves down route 32.  Kris Reddy is at the wheel.

A "Daily Gazette" sign flaps from his roll-bar.

Kris changes the station on the radio as his eye catches a

man walking on the opposite side of the street... Kris turns

back to the road -- mind racing... BRAKES SCREECH as the jeep

slows and then RUMBLES over the island separating the

lanes... making a U turn across a four lane highway.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Maurice wiping his brow with a handkerchief.  The Wrangler

jeep rolls up next to him as he walks.  Maurice doesn't stop

walking as Kris leans over the passenger seat.

Beat.  Cars HONK as they pull by the slow duo.

Kris looks around to see if anyone else sees the lunacy in

this moment.

Beat.

Maurice looks to Kris rolling along beside him.  He sees the

worried expression on his face.

Beat.

Kris tries to act calm, but it doesn't last long.

Maurice takes his time with the response.  Kris waves more

cars to pass them.

Maurice picks up speed -- surer with every step... Kris slows

the jeep to a stop and reaches into his bag.  The mini tape

recorder goes on with a CLICK.

Kris watches through the windshield as Mr. Parker disappears

down Route 32.

EXT.  PARKER HOUSE - AFTERNOON

The wreaths, flowers and bouquet have now tripled in number.

They spill onto the lawn and walkway.  A neighborhood dog

rummages through the more colorful bouquets.

INSIDE

The abandoned house.  A TELEPHONE RINGS CONTINUOUSLY.  It

stops after a string of rings.  It BEGINS AGAIN AFTER A FEW

SECONDS.

INT.  BOOKSTORE - AFTERNOON

The dark bookcases echo the RINGS OF THE TELEPHONE.  The

answering machine finally picks up.

INT.  ADELLE'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

A center-city Town house.  Wall to wall books, "Cognitive

Psychology", "Physiology of Behavior", "Abnormal Psychology",

"Clinical Psychology", the titles cover every shelf and every

tabletop.

Adelle Matlin hangs up the phone, and moves to the living

room where her husband is reading a paper in his recliner.

Gerald looks on with an assuring smile.

Beat.

EXT.  MOTEL - NIGHT

Nighttime.  The empty street ECHOES with the TIRED SHUFFLE OF

MAURICE'S FEET.

Maurice stops in this tracks and picks up a CRUSHED COKE CAN

FROM THE SIDE OF THE ROAD.  He places it upright at the place

where he stands.  Maurice immediately walks off the highway

into a small MOTEL PARKING LOT.

INT.  MOTEL - NIGHT

A motel clerk checks his wooden keys.

Maurice stares at him with exhausted eyes.

THE INSIDE OF A FLORAL PRINTED ROOM

Maurice's shoulder bags are on the bed... The WATER IS

RUNNING IN THE BATHROOM.

Maurice gently moves his hands under the bathtub head,

checking the temperature.  He sits on the edge of the tub.

Maurice peels off his shoes with great pain.  They slide

across the dull white tiles into the corner.  The once well

kept English Loafers could be mistaken for trash now.

Maurice rubs his barefeet with both hands -- grimacing from

the pain.  The tub is almost filled.  Maurice stops the tap.

The steam from the water fills the room.

Maurice raises his legs with great effort and submerges each

leg into the steaming water.  His eyes close with great

relief as his body melts into the tub.  Maurice lays his head

on the side of the tub... It only takes ten seconds before

Maurice's SNORING fills the bathroom.

THE OUTSIDE OF THE QUAKER MOTEL ON ROUTE 32

The neon MOTEL SIGN THROBS RED.

SUPERIMPOSED across this image are the words:

EXT.  MOTEL - MORNING

Maurice looks down the highway... eyes squinting to block out

the sun.  The road winds and dissolves into the horizon...

Maurice looks back the way he came -- a second of

indecision... the moment passes.

Maurice takes a deep breath before moving to the CRUSHED COKE

CAN.  He moves to the exact spot where he left the road the

night before and begins walking again...

INT.  NEWSPAPER BUILDING - MORNING

The elevator BELL dings, letting off a cargo of newspaper

personnel.  FRANK AND SETH are two of them.  They make their

way to the desks... a sea of desks pressed against each other

-- each desk has a computer.

Frank and Seth come to their corner and stop before a young

man, Phillies cap turned backwards, sitting behind an IBM 486

DX... fingers flying over the keyboard.

Kris Reddy keeps typing.  He spits out the answer after a few

seconds.

Frank and Seth crack up laughing.  Frank reaches for the

printouts... Kris immediately covers them with his hand.  He

stares up with a smile.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Maurice exits an athletic store in a small town.  On his feet

a new pair of sneakers.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Maurice as he walks down a winding highway.  His new sneakers

shuffling slowly.

A SHARP PAIN SHOOTS UP MAURICE'S LEG.  His knees buckle.  The

shoulder bags tumble to the ground followed by Maurice

himself.  From a distance it looks like he's been shot.

Maurice grabs the back of his thigh and tries to straighten

his leg out... His face frozen in a painful expression.

Maurice rubs his legs slowly -- working the cramp out.  He

relaxes a bit as he finally straightens his leg.  Maurice

sits there motionless -- eyes glazed... defeated.

The SOUNDS OF A BIRD snap him out of his trance.  He looks up

to see a PAINTED BUNTING, a bird about six inches in height

FLY DOWN from a tree and land on a rock next to him.  Maurice

stares at the beautiful bird curiously.  Its body splashed

with brilliant blues, reds and greens.  It looks out of place

in these mundane surroundings.  Maurice looks around the

skies to see no other birds.  The Painted Bunting chirps a

few times before taking flight into the air.  It circles over

Maurice before disappearing behind the trees.

Maurice smiles.  He pulls himself to his feet with great

effort.

Maurice opens all of his bags and begins emptying the

essentials -- the maps, food, a canister of water.

Maurice reloads one bag and pulls it over his shoulder with

great effort.  At his feet, are the rest of his belonging --

piled on the side of the road.

Maurice painfully begins walking again.

WE PULL BACK on Maurice's figure walking on the highway...

the pile of disregarded things laying by the side... The

highway is endless... winding it's way for miles and miles

into a fixed dot in the distance.

INT.  ADELLE'S HOUSE - MORNING

Sunrise on Pennsylvania.  Gerald picks the Philadelphia

Gazette off the front porch.

DINING ROOM

Gerald flips open the paper as he waits before an empty

plate.

KITCHEN

Adelle puts the finishing touches on a stack of pancakes.

She sets up two plates and brings them into the

DINING ROOM

Gerald's eyes remain glued to the paper.  Adelle comes to the

table, holding the golden pancakes over the table.  She

notices the strange look on his face.

She stares silently at the paper laid out on the table.  The

headline beams at her:

Adelle is shocked.  She gazes at an old picture of her uncle

printed underneath the headline.

She STORMS off into the kitchen with the golden pancakes.

Gerald looks down at his empty plate longingly.

INT.  POLICE STATION - DAY

SERGEANT DALLY pretends to be concerned.

Dally digests this information.

Adelle looks very emotional... on the verge of tears.

EXT.  HIGHWAYS - DAY

A floating DOT moves along a flat stretch of road...

EVENING

The sun drops behind rolling hills.  The DOT has become

LARGER, sprouting arms and legs...

NIGHT

Darkness has fallen.  The DOT has materializes into MAURICE.

MOTEL

A clerk hands over a set of keys in exchange for money.

ROAD - MORNING

Maurice walks back onto the highway and steps next to an old

boot that has been used as today's MARKER.  Maurice starts

walking from that point.

DRUGSTORE

Maurice grabs two handfuls of small green boxes.  He places

them on the table.  The cashier stares down at the eight

boxes of Ben-Gay and rings it up.

ROAD

Maurice standing at the entrance to a tunnel that pierces the

side of a mountain side.  Maurice makes "The sign of the

cross" and walks into the darkness...

EXIT OF TUNNEL

Maurice appears on the other side with a smile of relief.

He's awed at the beauty of the landscape.  Tiny clusters of

buildings far in the distance wrapped in a blanket of green

for miles on every side.

MOTEL

Maurice asleep in the bathtub.

ROAD - DUSK

It's raining hard like gun-fire from the sky.  Maurice sits

on the edge of a road rubbing his legs.  His hair matted to

his head.  The rain pelts the ground in forceful waves.

SUPPLY STORE

At a cash register, Maurice slaps ten more boxes of Ben-Gay

down on the counter.  A teenage girl with braces looks at him

like he's Charles Manson.

MOTEL

Maurice sleeps.  His barefeet are propped up on his bag.  His

feet are swollen and red with fresh blisters.  A pack of ice

is wrapped around his knee with an old shirt... The picture

of Ellen clutched in his hand.

ROAD

Two joggers pass Maurice as he sees a flashing school sign.

It is a suburban town.  The fallen red and orange leaves

cover every flat surface.

SUPERIMPOSE:  ELKHART, INDIANA... MILE 598

EXT.  SCHOOL - DAY

A line of cars pulls around a semi-circle driveway.  Maurice

watches as parents drop off their children.  A couple of ten

year old boys walk by.

Maurice realizes they're talking to him.

The boys keep walking.  Maurice looks down at his sneakers

with new-found pride.

After a while, Maurice's attention switches back to the cars.

One car in question catches Maurice's eye.  A woman consoles

a small child who doesn't want to leave the car.  She wipes

his tiny tears with her hand and hugs him tenderly.  The

little boy's head cradled in her arms.

EXT.  FIFTEEN YEARS AGO - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

The Parker house many years ago.  The house semi-furnished.

Ellen carefully hangs her first bird photographs on the wall;

a striking aerial photo of a GOLDEN EAGLE.  Wings spread,

soaring high over a mountain range.

Beat.  Ellen takes a seat on the only sofa.

Young Maurice is visibly upset.

Ellen fiddles with her dress.  She bites her bottom lip as

she tries not to cry.

Maurice loses his hard demeanor and moves next to her.  He

lays his hand across her shoulder.

Maurice lifts her chin with his hand gently.  She blinks her

eyes and a tear rolls down her cheek.  He takes a deep

breath.

Ellen brightens up immediately.

Ellen gives her patented glowing smile.  She hugs him with

all her strength.  She whispers in his ear.

EXT.  INDIANA GRADE SCHOOL - DAY (PRESENT)

Maurice walks away from the school, shuffling through the

piles of leaves that block the walkways.

A child and her father walk down the path towards him.

Maurice looks away painfully.  THE CHILD'S SOFT LAUGHTER

POUNDING IN HIS EARS as he quickens his pace.

INT.  LIQUOR STORE - DAY

JACKSON LIQUOR WHOLESALERS.  For the kind of people who buy

whiskey by the crate.

Maurice has his map unfolded over the cash register.

OUTSIDE OF LIQUOR STORE

The parking lot of the store looks like a used truck lot.

Every kind of supped-up truck one could possibly imagine is

on display here.

Maurice passes a CANARY YELLOW FLATBED PICK-UP with a group

of men drinking a newly purchased case of beer.  Maurice gets

about ten feet past them when he stops, hesitates and then

heads back to them.

The man sitting on the hood of the truck, has dark hair and

hasn't shaven in days.  This unfortunate gentleman is named

DENNY.

Denny gives Maurice a greasy curious look.  He squints his

glazed eyes.

Maurice, doesn't look scared, in fact he looks angered.

Silence.  Then everyone in the group BURSTS OUT IN DRUNKEN

LAUGHTER.

Denny's face goes blank.  No emotion.  His steady gaze almost

terrifying.

Maurice looks around at the hostile faces and decides on a

retreat.  Denny watches Maurice with predatory eyes.

EXT.  ROAD - DUSK

Maurice practically hobbles his way down a road lined by

towering pines.  He stops to take a drink from his canister

and keeps walking.  The SOUNDS OF A CAR GROW IN THE DISTANCE.

Maurice doesn't turn his back.

The CANARY YELLOW TRUCK pulls over the ridge with a load full

of passengers.  It gains distance on Maurice.

Maurice hears the ENGINE and waves HIS ARM IN THE AIR --

signaling for it to pass him.  Maurice walks ten more feet

before turning around.

Maurice's face instantly changes when he sees the demented

grins through the windshield of the truck.  Maurice turns and

quickens his pace... The truck picks up pace... Maurice

breaks into a run... The truck speeds up, passes Maurice and

stops in front of him.

Panic fills Maurice as he watches the truck unload it's

drunken passengers.  Eyes scan the forest on either side for

a way out.  Maurice decides to stand his ground.

The men walk up to Maurice.

A tall lanky gentleman gestures to Maurice's shoulder bag

with his beer can.  Some beer sprays Maurice's feet with the

gesture.

Denny gives Maurice that inhuman stare.  Maurice is clearly

frightened.

Maurice is frozen.

Maurice looks up for a millisecond.  Denny doesn't miss it.

Maurice is red with anger.  Denny loves it.

Maurice swings.  Denny easily avoids it.  Maurice doesn't see

the first BLOW COMING, IT HITS HIM IN THE CHEST -- Maurice

gasps for air as he buckles to the dirt.  Hands grab --

restrain.  A POWERFUL KICK IN THE RIBS -- ANOTHER...

LAUGHTER... ANOTHER SET OF VICIOUS KICKS... The road and

forest begin to spin... A PAINFUL SLASH ACROSS HIS FACE...

Maurice prepares for the next blow... it never comes.  RED

AND BLUE lights swirl... Maurice looks up, barely focusing --

a man leans over a car door... The image becomes clearer -- a

POLICEMAN stands poised -- gun aimed directly at the men

hovering over him.

INT.  INDIANA POLICE STATION - EVENING

OFFICER MERRIL GREY -- balances a phone on his shoulder as he

spreads a new coat of mayonnaise on his hoagie.

Grey reads Maurice's license.

INT.  PHILADELPHIA POLICE STATION - EVENING

Sergeant Dally, the officer Adelle spoke to earlier, listens

on the other end of the phone his mouth agape.

Gesturing to a young officer at another desk to come over.

Dally, cups the phone.

INT.  PHILADELPHIA GAZETTE BUILDING - EVENING

The sea of desks are empty.  One empty desk is lit -- Kris

Reddy's desk.  THE CRACKLE OF A SHORTWAVE/C.B. UNIT FLOATS

THROUGH THE LARGE UNOCCUPIED ROOM from an adjacent room.  The

VOICES OF DALLY AND OFFICER GREY ARE DISTORTED BUT AUDIBLE.

WE MOVE TO the back room to find Kris writing furiously in

front of an elaborate C.B. setup.

He jots down the words as fast as they're said:

The transmission gets cut as the phone conversation ends.

Kris quickly rolls the chair across the room and grabs a map

off the shelf.

The map gets pinned under two coffee cups and a ceramic frog

as Kris traces the route from Philadelphia to Indiana... He

sits up straight in astonishment as his eyes hit the KEY of

the map.

Kris glances at the hairs on his arm and smiles.

LATER

Kris at his computer and in the 'zone.'  Fingers flying over

the keys passionately.  On his desk is a cardboard box filled

with letters all shapes and sizes on the verge of overflowing

the top of the box.  One the side of the box are the words,

"Labor of Love - Fan Mail."

INT.  INDIANA POLICE STATION - MORNING

DAWN IN INDIANA -- the sun spills over the horizon.

EXT.  INDIANA POLICE STATION - MORNING

Maurice and Officer Grey are seated on the front stairs of

the precinct drinking coffee when ADELLE MATLIN DRIVES UP.

Adelle steps out of a RENTED TOYOTA CELICA.  Her tense --

frightened eyes betray her mental state for the past ten

hours.  She walks to the stairs.

Maurice slowly gets up.  Adelle is in shock as she looks at

the stranger before her.

Maurice stands in a 'COLTS' football T-shirt, faded jeans and

sneakers.  His left cheek is black and blue, and his arm and

side are bandaged.

Adelle wasn't sure what that meant.  She shakes it off and

hugs Maurice.  She is visibly relieved to have him in her

arms.

Adelle notices the ROSE in Grey's hand.  Grey catches her

glance.

Grey looks to Maurice -- they exchange a knowing smile.

Adelle notices the WINK exchanged between Grey and Maurice.

Beat.

Adelle gives Maurice an angry glare -- Maurice holds his

ground.

INT.  POLICE CONFERENCE ROOM - MORNING

File cabinets in the corners.  A small rectangle table takes

up ninety percent of the space in the room.

Maurice is seated -- his legs extended straight on another

chair.  Adelle paces the front of the room.

Adelle changes gears.  She takes a seat next to Maurice and

studies his legs and tired face carefully before uttering the

words.

Beat.

Maurice is stumped.  He looks unsure.  He instantly looks on

the verge of tears.

Maurice stares down at the table -- the life draining from

him with every word she says.

INT.  CAR - DAY

The RENTED TOYOTA CELICA turns out of the police station onto

the main road.

Adelle holds a cushion in the air as she looks in the

rearview mirror.

Maurice is stretched out in the back -- his legs propped up

on a blanket.  Maurice shakes his head "no" silently.

His sad eyes watching the passing scenery.  The speeding car

swallows up the miles effortlessly.  Maurice watches the

Jackson Liquor Wholesalers whiz by... The painful hills he

climbed, gone, in an instant... The school where he watched

the children being dropped off, swishes by in a blink... all

those miles lost.

Maurice shuts his eyes in pain.

EXT.  GAS STATION/REST STOP - DAY

The rented Toyota Celica is parked at the convenience store.

Maurice is seated in the back staring out at the eighteen

wheelers that come in and out of the parking lot.  He glances

in to Adelle who is gathering food.

Maurice's dull eyes are about to shut when something catches

his attention.  He sits up and stares out the window with

great intensity.  Maurice watches as a large truck pulls into

the parking lot, across it's side in blazing red --

Maurice scans the area... gas station ATTENDANTS... A BEARDED

HOMELESS MAN laying next to a heating unit... KIDS eating

fast food on old picnic tables...

Maurice's gaze steadies on the TRUCK, as the driver fills the

tank with gas.

A PHONE BOOTH INSIDE THE CONVENIENCE STORE

Adelle is on the phone.

CAR - LATER

Adelle gets in the front seat of the car keeping the bag of

food on the passenger seat.  She starts the car as she talks

into the rearview mirror.

She stares at Maurice covered in a blanket with his back to

her... an unresponsive blob.

Adelle puts the Celica into drive and pulls out onto the

highway.

EXT.  ADELLE'S HOUSE - EVENING

Evening in Philadelphia.  The rented Toyota Celica pulls into

the driveway.  The front door of the house opens.  Gerald

walks out to greet them.

A tired Adelle slips out of the car and hugs Gerald.

Adelle and Gerald move to the back door of the Celica.  They

open it and stare at Maurice covered by the blanket.  Adelle

shakes the blanket.

Adelle shakes Maurice, who stirs a little as he wakes.  His

feet slide out from under the blanket -- Adelle stares

curiously at the ARMY COMBAT BOOTS that dangle out.

Adelle pulls aside the covers... THE HOMELESS MAN, from the

gas station, sits up.  ADELLE'S SHRILL SCREAM BLASTS THROUGH

THE AIR.  Gerald and Adelle stumble back as the large,

bearded man struggles out of the car and looks around the

quiet neighborhood.

The homeless man raises his hand.  He holds up MAURICE'S WELL

POLISHED BOOK SOCIETY MEDALLION and kisses it lovingly.

Adelle and Gerald stare back speechless.

EXT.  ROAD - MORNING

JACKSON WHOLESALER'S PARKING LOT.  The truck from the gas

station, the only vehicle parked before the store.

EXT.  ROAD - MORNING

Maurice back on the road.  His limp only slightly visible at

this point in the day.  The bandages rubbing him with every

step.

The highway takes him around a beautiful bend of trees.  THE

AIR IS FILLED WITH THE SOUNDS OF BIRDS.  Maurice spots a

YELLOW WARBLER, a striking bird about eight inches long with

vivid yellow feathers.  It sits elegantly on a nearby branch.

He walks towards it -- it stays in position.  Closer.  The

bird chirps back at him.  Maurice is within arms reach of the

bird.

Maurice looks closer -- and notices it's wings.  The feathers

bend back -- a dark area at the center.

Maurice watches the bird hop around the branch -- unable to

fly.

INT.  PARKER KITCHEN - FIFTEEN YEARS EARLIER (FLASHBACK)

The kitchen is a different color.  The refrigerator and

appliances are brand new.  Ellen walks in -- something

cradled in her hand.  Maurice looks up from his paper to see

Ellen move to the sink and lay a motionless bird on the

counter.

Ellen finds an eye dropper from the table and fills it with

water -- she lets a few drops fall into the birds mouth.

BEDROOM

Evening, just before bed.  Maurice is reading.  Ellen is

monitoring the bird closely.  It lays on the bedside table --

wrapped gently with a hand towel.  A morsel of food is

lowered into its mouth with a pair of tweezers.  The bird

stares blankly at the ceiling.

Her delicate hand rubs the bird's stomach.

LIVING ROOM

The GRAPHIC IMAGES of the TV FLICKER on Maurice's face.  He

glances back to Ellen who talks to the bird cradled in her

arms.

In the SOFT LIGHT of the lamp -- Ellen has transformed into a

mother rocking her child to sleep.

KITCHEN

Maurice is reading his paper.

Maurice looks through the window to see Ellen waving to him

frantically.

BACKYARD

Ellen points to the ground.  The little bird awkwardly walks

around the porch.

The bird's wings BURST into motion -- flapping hard --

catching the wind.  Ellen jumps up and down, bursting with

pride, as her little child takes flight.

Ellen hugs Maurice.

Young Maurice and Ellen watch the bird soar into the blue

sky.

EXT.  STREAM - DAY (PRESENT)

Maurice is kneeling at a stream by the side of the road.  He

gently clears away the dirt from the Yellow Warbler's

feathers.

Maurice carries the bird back to the trees.  He lays it back

on the branch.  He stares at it's beautiful coat with a

smile.

INT.  ADELLE'S KITCHEN - DAY

Adelle is on the cordless.  Her fingers tapping on the

kitchen table angrily.  Gerald moves around her as he sets

two plates at the table.

Gerald is cooking.  He gently flips the chicken breast in a

butter and garlic sauce.

Gerald brings the sizzling pan over and divides the steaming

dish into both plates.

Gerald quickly scoops some rice onto both plates.  His mouth

is watering as he goes for the utensils.

Adelle abruptly stands at her place.

Gerald gets into his seat at the table just in time to see

Adelle angrily hang up the phone.  She stares off into space

before unconsciously cleaning the table.  Adelle picks up

both plates of food...

Gerald's heart sinks as Adelle pops open the trash can with a

tap of her foot and dumps the picture perfect meal into the

garbage.  She goes to the sink and rinses the plates

completely preoccupied with her thoughts.  She mumbles to

herself as she shuts off the water.

Adelle storms out of the kitchen.  Gerald sits at the empty

table with a fork in his hands.  He shakes his head in

disbelief.

EXT.  MIDWEST HIGHWAYS - DAY

The land is flat.  From the roads one can see endless fields

in all directions.  When the wind blows, the crops bend in

unison, changing the shape and texture of the land for a

moment and instantly changing back with a snap of the wind.

Maurice takes in the beauty of the land through a painful

grimace.  Occasionally clutching his right leg in moments of

extreme pain.

Maurice rests on an abandoned tractor by the side of the road

and watches the wind change the fields.  He closes his jacket

as the gusts become stronger.

HOTEL

The clock clicks past 11:30 am.  Maurice is still in bed --

the curtains drawn.  He crawls out from under the sheets and

downs two pills with a glass of water.  He looks bad.  His

face pale, his eyes at half-mast.  He wipes unnatural sweat

from his brow and melts into the bed again.

STREET

Just after dusk.  A small town's main road.  Maurice quietly

passes under the street lights.

He stares up and tightens the hood on his parka as the first

SNOWFLAKE falls into the SHAFT OF THE STREET LIGHT.  Soon

thousands of flakes fall into the light...

GAZETTE BUILDING

Kris fields calls frantically as the LIGHTS BLINK ANXIOUSLY

on his phone.  The front page of the Gazette is posted on his

pin up board.  It reads... "HE MARCHES ON..."  Underneath is

A PICTURE of Maurice standing outside his bookstore holding

up THE BOOK SOCIETY MEDALLION proudly.

A teenage boy gets off the elevator and maneuvers an enormous

bag over his shoulder... emblazoned across his back are the

words "MAIL ROOM."  The boy comes to Kris and empties the bag

on Kris' desk without a word.  Hundreds of letters cascade

down swallowing the table top and covering Kris who stares in

awe as the letters keep coming.

MOTEL

Maurice is COUGHING PAINFULLY.  He crouches over the edge of

the bed and holds his side with every strain.

Maurice looks worse than ever.  His hair and shirt are soaked

with sweat.  The coughing attack stops.  Maurice take a

couple deep breaths before laying back down.

His feet are visible -- sticking out from beneath the sheets.

They look like someone has beaten them with a stick, swollen

and bruised.  They disappear under the sheets.

SNOW COVERED ROADS

that stretch into a white oblivion.

SUPERIMPOSE:  ELM CREEK, NEBRASKA... MILE 1,564

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Early morning.  The branches of the trees are encapsulated in

ice.  The snow piled ten inches on every surface.  Maurice,

buried deep beneath three layers of clothes, looks around.

His breath materializes with every step.  He forces a weak

smile at the magical landscape before him.  White.  Pure.

Peaceful.

The SOUNDS OF A VOLVO STATION WAGON urges Maurice to the side

of the road.  As it passes a little girl waves from the

passenger window.  Maurice puts on a brave face and waves

back.

Another CAR ENTERS the picture -- A DARK BLUE FIREBIRD rises

over the hill in the opposite lane moving fast, too fast.

SLOW-MOTION as the Firebird skids over the ice and the snow

-- the driver desperately trying to gain control... The

mother in the Volvo hits the BRAKES as the Firebird spins

into her lane... Maurice yells out.

The cars IMPACT with a sickening CRUNCH -- BACK TO REAL TIME:

The Firebird spins into a guardrail, breaking through it and

coming to a stop in a bank of snow.

The Volvo isn't so lucky.  It flips from the impact...

sliding on its roof, driving through the snow, down the

road... It comes to a rest a hundred feet away.

SILENCE.  STILLNESS.  The entire event took only seconds.

Maurice runs frantically after the Volvo.  The windows are

SHATTERED.  Snow has packed into the over-turned car.  No one

can be seen inside the vehicle.

Maurice kneels down and punctures the wall of snow with his

hand.  His arm disappears up to the shoulder.  His face

grimacing with the strain.  His arm comes out slowly...

A few MUFFLED SOBS ARE HEARD BEFORE the little girl breaks

through the wall of snow and slides out of the window.  She

lets out a DESPERATE GASP for air as Maurice pulls her out by

the wrist.

Maurice clears her mouth and face and watches as she coughs.

Maurice lays her gently against a snow bank, before moving to

the other side of the car.

Maurice looks up to see the driver of the Firebird walking

towards him.  He looks dazed.

Maurice doesn't waste another second and plunges his arm in

the snow... deeper than before.  His cheek pressed against

the snow, almost laying flat on the ground.

Maurice fishes around... his teeth clenched... He lets out a

POWERFUL GRUNT as he pulls back with all his strength -- a

woman's WRIST appears first, then the tangled hair and then

the body spills out onto the road next to Maurice.

The driver appears over the Woman and Maurice and loses it

when he sees them.

Maurice, out of breath, clears the woman's face and mouth --

no movement.  No sound.

Maurice holds her nose and breaths into her mouth...

She doesn't respond.

A FRIGHTENING FLASH

The mother's UNCONSCIOUS face turns into ELLEN.  Her lifeless

eyes -- her bruised cheek and forehead.  Her neck at an

awkward angle.  Maurice stares down at his wife in horror.

THE MOTHER

being revived by Maurice.  He pushes her chest in counting...

push, count, breath... push, count, breath...

The mother's BODY TWITCHES, slightly at first -- then

obviously... The mother let's out a FEW PAINFUL COUGHS.

She takes a breath.  Life quickly returns to her body.

Maurice places her head in his lap and hugs her, lightly

rocking back and forth.  The tears streaming down his red

face.

The SCENE BACKS OUT as Maurice comforts this stranger in his

arms.

EXT.  ROAD - AFTERNOON

The police have descended on the scene.  Traffic has been

blocked off in both directions.  The LIGHT thrown by the

ambulances tints the snow and fields a THROBBING RED.

Maurice's face can be seen in the shadows of the backseat of

a police car.

OUTSIDE THE CAR

OFFICER HANSEN AND OFFICER TANDY converse.

Hansen looks in at the drawn, exhausted face of Maurice

through the window.  Hansen opens the back door.

Hansen throws a sharp glance to Tandy.  Hansen turns back to

Maurice.

Maurice mulls this offer.

Beat.

INT.  DINER - EVENING

The end of the meal.  Maurice sits in a booth across from

Hansen and Tandy.  They watch as Maurice coughs violently

into his napkin.

Maurice takes a couple strained breaths.

Beat.

Maurice gets up and heads to the bathroom.  Hansen and Tandy

stare at Maurice's shoulder bag laying on his seat.

That makes Tandy think.

Tandy looks to the men's bathroom door.

Hansen instantly reaches over and begins rummaging through

the shoulder bag.  Hansen pulls out a little folder.  He

opens the folder to reveal an old certificate.  Hansen shows

Tandy the worn piece of paper.

Hansen returns the certificate and folder to the bag and

leaves the booth quickly.

LATER

Maurice returns to the table to find only Tandy seated.

Maurice sees Hansen in the phone booth at the far end of the

diner.

PHONE BOOTH

INT.  PHILADELPHIA POLICE STATION - EVENING

Sergeant Dally packs his things to leave.  He sees the light

on LINE 1 LIGHT UP on his phone.  He ignores it.  The clerk

sticks her head around the corner.

Dally zips his coat.

Dally freezes.  He shakes his head as he unzips his jacket.

Dally grabs the phone.

INT.  GAZETTE BUILDING - EVENING

The C.B. CRACKLES WITH THE VOICE OF SERGEANT DALLY AND THE

NEBRASKA POLICE.

MICHELLE, a very introverted intern, stares at the radio

astonished.

A SMALL SIDE OFFICE

It now has "KRIS REDDY" etched on it's door.  Kris looks up

from his desk at Michelle who stands in the doorway bright

red.

Michelle just points down the hall.

OFFICE

Michelle scribbles down notes.

Kris stands, jaw hanging wide open.

Michelle checks her notes.

Kris practically falls over.  Michelle scribbles down more

quotes.

Beat.

Kris' mind is racing as the C.B. conversation continues.

INT.  DINER - NIGHT

Hansen scoffs down his third dessert.  Maurice stares at him

oddly.

The PAY PHONE RINGS.  Hansen jumps to his feet too quickly.

He tries to recover.

Hansen moves to the phone.

Tandy winks at Maurice with a smile.

PHONE BOOTH

Hansen listens carefully to the officer on the line.

EXT.  POLICE CAR - NIGHT

The ride progresses in silence.  Hansen and Tandy in the

front seat.  Maurice's head is pressed against the back-seat

window.  His eyes begin to shut slightly as sleep overcomes

him.  The car goes over a BUMP.  Maurice jars awake.  He

glances out the window to see a highway sign swish by in the

HEADLIGHTS.  'ROUTE 80 EAST'.

East?  Maurice looks around quickly at the passing scenery.

Hansen and Tandy exchange looks.

Hansen looks back to the road.  The drive continues in

silence.  Tandy checks his watch just when a CLICK -- A HARD

WIND -- AND A METALLIC SLAM in quick succession shakes the

car.

Tandy looks back -- Maurice is GONE.  The back seat empty.

Tandy stares out the blackness of the back window.

EXT.  FOREST - NIGHT

Maurice staggers through the naked trees.  Thin trees every

few feet with no branches.  The snow ankle deep.

Maurice braces himself against a trunk, checking his hands.

His vision blurs as he stares down at his scraped bloody

palms.

The forest clears quickly into an open field.  Far in the

distance across the field of white is a small pointed

building standing alone.  The glow of a LIGHT can be seen

through the windows.

Maurice trudges through the deeper snow.  Stumbling many

times.  The frigid wind pushing him to his knees.  Maurice

keeps moving -- the field seems endless...

DRIVEWAY

Maurice's feet hit the snow of the driveway, just as his legs

buckle -- his face HITS the snow hard.  He manages to roll

over on his back with great effort.  He stares up at the

pointed building -- the dull light becoming duller...

something blocks the light.  A man.  Maurice feels himself

rise into the air as two powerful arms scoop him off the ice.

A PRIEST carries him into the doors of a CHURCH.

INT.  BACK ROOM OF CHURCH - NIGHT

A dimly lit cathedral.  Six foot six, FATHER BERCHMAN walks

down the center isle of the cathedral, through a cloth

curtain and into a

BACK ROOM

where Maurice is sitting in a chair wrapped in a blanket.

This is the father's own room.  Very sparse as one would

expect.  He moves to his bureau and retrieves some pills.

Maurice follows the father's instructions and tightens the

blanket around his shoulders.

Beat.

Beat.  The father nods as if this is not shocking news.

The father nods with understanding as if everything became

very clear with that statement.

The father studies this stranger before him with great

admiration.

Maurice struggles with the last words.  He slumps back --

physically drained.

The father gets up and takes the empty glass of water from

Maurice's hands.

The father moves for the curtain.

The father turns and smiles warmly.

Maurice's eyes well up instantly.

EXT.  CHURCH - WESTERN HIGHWAY - DAY

Father Berchman wraps one powerful hand around a tiny silver

cross dangling from his neck.  The other hand waves high into

the air at the shrinking figure of Maurice Parker walking

through the snow.

HIGHWAY

The long trek continues.  The black tar of the roads peek out

in spots as the SUN BEATS down on the flatlands.  Maurice

drapes his worn scarf around a melting snowman.

RESTAURANT

We are looking inside a fancy Center-City Philadelphia

restaurant.  Adelle and Gerald are seated by an enormous bay

window.  A waiter comes to their table with their main

course.  Gerald watches the food being served with great

anticipation.

Gerald's eyes drift out the window to the magazine stand on

the sidewalk... He squints to see better.  Realization hits

hard... His eyes light up.  He looks to Adelle and back to

the magazine stand.

In a mad race for time, Gerald begins to devour the food on

his plate.  The waiter and Adelle watch him in shock.  Adelle

glances out the window.  Her eyes squint... then light up.

She jumps to her feet and grabs Gerald by the arm, a fork

full of food drops to his plate.  Gerald looks back at his

full plate longingly as Adelle pulls him out of the

restaurant.

The waiter looks out the window to the magazine stand.  He

squints.

MAGAZINE STAND

The NEW YORK TIMES are hung like stockings around the border

of the stand.  On the front pages, a singular headline stands

out among the others:

A large PHOTO OF MAURICE is next to the headline.

DINER

A red-headed waitress slices a credit card through the

machine and waits... Green computer letters blink - "This

account has been closed."

The waitress returns with the card -- she shakes her head

"No" at Maurice who digs into his wallet for cash.

MOTEL

Maurice slides two twenties across the counter to the motel

manager.  Maurice checks the remaining bills in his wallet...

only a few bills left.

In the motel room we find Maurice sitting over the edge of a

bed buckled over in a coughing attack.  It finally stops.

Maurice flops back to the pillows, completely drained.

ROADS

The flatlands have vanished.  The roads now serpentine

through mountain ranges.

VIEW FROM THE MOUNTAIN RANGE; Maurice moves like a grain of

dust over the black line of the road.

Maurice rests every half mile.  He labors up every incline

with ultimate effort.  He braces himself with a branch

serving as a make due crutch.

Maurice spots a small town nestled in the arms of the

mountain range.  He begins the journey to rest.

GROCERIES

Maurice pays for his food with the last few bills in his

wallet.

ROAD

Another stick serves as a walking cane.  The multi layers of

clothes have been shed for a short-sleeve shirt.  Maurice

follows a dirt road that breaks free of the mountains and

into the open country again.

SUPERIMPOSE:  COALVILLE, UTAH... MILE 2,472

EXT.  DRIVEWAY - DUSK

A dust covered mailbox at the end of a long dirt driveway.

Maurice wipes the mailbox clean with his hand.  The name

emerges like an ancient inscription from beneath the mud...

"CALDWELLS."

FRONT DOOR

Maurice tentatively moving to the front door.  His hand

instinctively clutches his empty stomach.

The wind blows gently.  Maurice shuts his eyes and takes a

deep breath.  He opens his eyes slowly to see a dinner table

being set.  Potatoes, gravy, fresh baked bread... floating

through the half open window to Maurice's thankful smile.

THE SOUNDS OF CHILDREN AND ADULTS CAN BE HEARD INSIDE.

The first LIGHT KNOCKS go unheard with all the commotion.

HARDER.  The door squeaks open.  Maurice puts on his best

smile... the door opens wider -- no one stands before him.

Maurice looks down to find an adorable little boy, black

hair, big eyes and an even bigger grin.  This is three year

old ISAAC CALDWELL.

Beat.  Isaac thinks.

Isaac is happy with this thought.

Maurice looks up as MRS. CALDWELL comes to the door.

Mrs. Caldwell stops as she stares at Maurice.

Mrs. Caldwell doesn't listen, but instead yells behind the

door.

Maurice looks at her oddly.  MR. CALDWELL comes to the door;

his face lights up.

Mr. Caldwell is completely floored.  So, for that matter is

Maurice.  Mr. Caldwell puts out his hand with awe.

Maurice is truly surprised.

Mrs. Caldwell ushers Maurice in the doorway by the elbow.

INT.  CALDWELL KITCHEN - NIGHT

The Caldwell family dinner... all twelve of them.  Ten

children talk and reach for food.  Maurice sits at the end

talking, enjoying and sharing.  Isaac sits next to him

proudly.  Maurice has blended in as another member of this

family.

INT.  CALDWELL GUEST BEDROOM - NIGHT

An inviting room.  The kind prepared for visiting

grandmothers and grandfathers to stay in.

Maurice checks himself out in the mirror... his borrowed

pajamas fit nicely.

He moves to the window and stares at the moon lit

landscape... enormous, endless, dwarfing.

The rocking chair CREAKS as Maurice melts into it.  He rubs

his calves slowly, the pain evident in his face.  His head

leans back after a moment... on the verge of sleep.

The SOUND OF TINY FOOTSTEPS stirs him.  He looks to the

doorway to find Isaac standing quietly at the door in his

baseball P.J.s.

Isaac walks silently to Maurice... Tip-toeing all the way.

Too late.  Isaac climbs up into Maurice's lap with great

effort.  Maurice looks down at Isaac who waits patiently for

him to begin.

Isaac waits.

Isaac -- still waiting.

Isaac gets in position, cradled in Maurice's arms.  Maurice

searches for something to say.

Isaac points to Maurice.

Isaac didn't understand that last part.

Maurice has to smile as Isaac looks up anxiously.

WE BACK OUT as Maurice rocks back and forth in his chair.

Isaac falling asleep in his arms.

EXT.  CALDWELL DRIVEWAY - MORNING

The family dog "Max", scurries up and down with great

excitement.  Max can sense something big is happening.

The Caldwell clan, one and all has gathered at the end of

their driveway.  Maurice is escorted out by Isaac who clings

tightly to his hand.  Mr. Caldwell meets Maurice halfway and

pulls him aside.

Maurice looks down at his beat-up Seiko.

Maurice watches him suspiciously as he pulls out an envelope

from his jacket pocket.

Maurice is handed the envelope.  He opens it to find a thick

PILE OF CASH, TENS AND TWENTIES.

Maurice stares into the envelope emotionally and hands over

the watch tentatively.

Mr. Caldwell straps on the watch and then hugs Maurice.

The rest of the family say their good-byes.

Isaac won't let go of Maurice's hand as he walks out into the

street.

Isaac just holds on tighter.  After Maurice and Isaac have

walked a few steps out into the street, Maurice kneels down.

Isaac's bottom lip protrudes as he tries not to cry.  Maurice

has to hold back a few tears himself.  He hugs Isaac tightly.

Maurice pulls away from Isaac slowly.  Isaac runs to his

mother's arms.  Maurice waves good-bye to the Caldwells as he

heads down the road.

EXT.  ROAD - DAY

Maurice stops, bends down to the road and picks up a TORN

WHITE PAPER STREAMER that spiraled its way to his feet.

He looks ahead and finds both sides of the street lined with

parked cars.  Some of the cars are decorated with white

streamers.

OUTDOOR WEDDING

A beautiful canopy of flowers sits at the end of ten rows of

lawn chairs.  Maurice watches from near the cars.  He smiles

as the young bride and groom nervously say their vows.

Everyone LAUGHS warmly as the groom stumbles over his lines.

INT.  CHAPEL - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Moments before the ceremony.  The guests are seated.  The

ORGAN is PLAYING.

SIDE ROOM

Young Maurice sits on a chair in a tuxedo staring out the

half-open door to an OLD MAN who tries to gain his balance by

holding onto the wall.  Maurice is upset.  He runs his

fingers through his hair.

THE DOOR OPENS wide as Young Ellen comes in.  She is wearing

her WEDDING GOWN.  White lace, tight at the arms and waist --

she looks stunning.

Maurice stares at his rented shoes.

Ellen moves to him and kneels before him.  She lifts his

chin.

Maurice moves his gaze from her to the half open door.

Ellen looks back.

Maurice looks like he may cry.

Ellen takes both his hands and squeezes them between hers.

EXT.  OUTDOOR MARRIAGE - DAY (PRESENT)

The bride and groom run through a shower of rice into their

limousine.

INSIDE LIMOUSINE

They wave through the window as the car pulls away.  They

settle in and look to the seat across from them.  On the seat

is a fresh flower.  Next to the flower is a note.  The groom

picks it up and shows it to the bride.  It reads:

It is signed "M.P."

The bride and groom look at each other curiously.

ROAD

The limousine passes Maurice on the road as he walks.

INT.  GAZETTE BUILDING - DAY

A fax machine rolls out a tongue of information.  Michelle,

the intern, snatches it and jogs through the maze of desks.

KRIS'S OFFICE

Michelle catches the tail end of a telephone conversation.

Kris hangs up.

Kris notices Michelle's familiar bright red face.

Michelle is completely flustered as usual.

Kris studies the fax before jumping up from his desk and

moving to the wall.  An enormous U.S. MAP covers three

quarters of the wall.  RED TACKS mark a trail across the

United States, beginning with Philadelphia.  Kris puts a red

tack at the top right corner of Utah.

Kris notices through the open officer door that Frank and

Seth are listening in.  Kris nods to Michelle.  Who

immediately shuts the door on their view.  Kris waves bye

before it closes.

Kris paces the room -- charged with excitement -- eyes

occasionally stopping on the map.  Michelle watches Kris'

animated expressions.

Michelle enjoys watching Kris when he's like this.

Kris studies the map.

INT.  ADELLE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The lights are out.  The FLICKER FROM THE TV dances over

Adelle and Gerald.  Adelle is fast asleep.  Gerald is having

a late night sandwich.  NIGHTLINE comes on the TV.

Gerald sighs.  He puts the sandwich on the plate and hands it

to his left -- obediently.  PAN TO LEFT to find Adelle wide

awake now.  She glares at the TV screen silently as she takes

the sandwich and dumps it in the waste basket releasing some

of her frustration.

A COMPUTER MAP OF THE U.S. trails Maurice's walk on the

screen.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - DAY

A merciless sun beats down on a long stretch of highway.  The

black tar from the road melting slightly.

No sign of Maurice.  WE SEE into the distance, not a soul in

sight.  WE LOOK to a hillside a hundred meters from the road.

There we see a figure lying still in the shade of an

overhanging rock formation.

Maurice has a towel over his eyes and his feet propped up on

his shoulder bag.  He is fast asleep.

DUSK

The SUN TURNS RED for one brilliant moment before hiding

behind the horizon.  Like an alarm went off, Maurice wakes up

and packs his things.

ROAD

The MOONLIGHT outlines a line figure hobbling his way step by

step with a walking stick.

The air fills with a POWERFUL RUMBLE.  Maurice turns to see a

wave of rocks and sand slide down a hillside to the road.

They CAUSE A GREAT THUNDER that settles to dust.  Maurice

walks down the center of the highway away from the hillside.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - DAWN

THE FIERY NEVADA SUN BEGINS ITS ASCENT INTO THE SKY.  Maurice

looks bad.  He's breathing heavy as he moves up a steep

incline by the side of the road.  His feet slide on the loose

dirt.  Maurice looks like he could collapse at any moment.

He makes it to the indentation in the hillside -- just enough

room to lay down in the shade.  Maurice lays out slowly.  He

pries off his sneakers, band-aids and blisters cover every

inch of his feet.  Maurice dumps the sand out of his sneakers

and painfully pulls them back on.  His eyes close as he tries

to unbutton his jacket... too late he's asleep.

Maurice's bed is a rock that juts from the side of the

hill... First WE SEE nothing, then some grains of sand escape

from the crack where the rock meets the hillside.  The CRACK

BECOMES SLIGHTLY LARGER -- PULLING AWAY FROM THE HILL BY A

FRACTION OF AN INCH.  It stabilizes there.

Maurice unaware of his precarious situation sleeps twenty

five feet above the ground.

MID-DAY

Another sizzler.  Temperatures in the nineties.  The sun is

directly overhead.

Maurice stirs in his sleep, moving closer to the edge of the

rock.

A STEADY STREAM OF SAND POURS FROM THE CRACK...

A SLIGHT TREMOR...

THEN THE FRIGHTENING SOUND OF ROCK MOVING AGAINST ROCK...

Maurice wakes up as he begins to slide off... Hands scraping

at the dirt... He SLIDES OFF THE ROCK... Feet and hands

desperately trying to cling to the hillside... He picks up

speed as he tumbles down... Maurice looks down in time to see

a small jut in the rock hurtling towards him... no time for

panic... SLAM!  A SICKENING CRACK OF BONE as Maurice HITS the

rock square in the ribs... Maurice flops down the rest of the

slope like a rag doll... he comes to rest in the dirt,

clutching his ribs.  The sun beats down on his stunned eyes.

Maurice stares up at the dizzying slope.  Sand still

trickling down to a stop.  He doesn't try to move for the

first few seconds.  His breathing increasingly erratic.

Maurice drags himself to sit upright.  The sharp pains

causing a distorted grimace on his face.  A short rest,

before working his way to his feet.

HIGHWAY

Maurice uses a highway guardrail as a backrest.  He takes a

seat in the dirt.  Maurice's hair is damp with sweat.  His

breathing relegated to slow gasps.  His left hand covering

his rib cage protectively.  Blood begins to trickle through

the spaces between his fingers.

Maurice closes his eyes for a moment, before his bent leg

goes into spasms... Maurice is forced to straighten the leg

instantly... jarring his tender rib cafe... Maurice clings to

the back of his thigh... Maurice is defeated... On the verge

of tears.

He glances way down the road and spots a TINY CLOUD OF SMOKE

miles away in the distance.  A car is moving in his

direction.

Maurice looks up into the DAZZLING WHITE SKY.  Drops of sweat

falling into his eyes.

Maurice looks down the road at the cloud of dust growing

larger.

The cloud is now clearly a car... Maurice stares up into the

sky again... The tears racing the sweat down his cheeks.

Maurice YELLS TO THE HEAVENS.

Maurice's is interrupted by A SLIGHT RUSTLING BEHIND HIS

HEAD.  Maurice turns and looks through his tears...

There, a few feet from him, perched quietly and majestically

on the guardrail is a GOLDEN EAGLE.  It stands two and half

feet tall.  It spreads it's great wings.  The feathers expand

like a blanket, spanning six feet, and throwing a gentle

shade on Maurice's face.

Maurice is frozen in wonder.  The MAGIC of the moment glows

in his eyes.  Maurice's face gains life... The dark feathered

eagle stands like a god before Maurice.  The moment is

breathtaking.

ROAD

The car on the road, takes the last quarter mile in

seconds... SCREECHING IT'S BRAKES at the sight of Maurice on

the side of the road.

Maurice turns away from the bird as the car pulls up.  The

driver gets out and calls over the hood.

Maurice's face filled with strength.  He grins through the

pain.

The driver is concerned.  He opens the driver door.

Beat.

This pacifies the driver somewhat.  He nods and gets in the

car.  Maurice watches as the car pulls away.

He turns back to the guardrail -- the eagle is gone.  Maurice

looks up into the sky.  The Golden Eagle is flying

overhead... a tiny dot against the blazing sun.

Maurice struggles to his feet using the guardrail as support.

Maurice takes his first step...

EXT.  SUBURBAN STREET - DAY

Suburbia.  Rows of similar houses with small lawns and custom

mailboxes.  Beautiful trees line the streets creating a

canopy over the roadway.

Two women sit on a swing on the front porch of a small

suburban home.  JANIS AND AMMIE'S conversation is cut in mid

sentence.

Janis and Ammie stare to the street where a sunburnt MAURICE

staggers in a daze.

MAURICE'S POV

Maurice is on the edge of darkness... the trees and faces

swimming -- mixed with the colors of red and blue cloth

waving in the wind... Images come in and out of focus... two

women walking towards him... Maurice clutches his head as the

trees start to swim faster -- color, lights, houses...

Maurice collapses in the middle of this suburban street.

Janis and Ammie run to his side.

SUPERIMPOSED:  "ROSEVILLE, CALIFORNIA... MILE 3,205"

INT.  HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Maurice lays still on a hospital bed.  His eyes slowly force

themselves open.

Maurice turns his head to the side.  A pretty woman in her

late twenties, with LARGE LOCKS OF BROWN HAIR smiles back.

This is STEPHANIE.

Stephanie understands his worry.

Maurice closes his eyes in relief.

INT.  HOSPITAL - AFTERNOON

The room is crowded.  Maurice is now propped up in a seated

position.  He tries to digest a set of fish sticks on a tray.

Maurice looks across to ADELLE AND GERALD.

Adelle and Gerald are in shock.  Maurice forks another fish

stick with a smile.

DR. RAY, who has been standing by the window listening, steps

forward.

Maurice gives a comforting smile to Adelle.

This surprises Maurice.

There is dead silence in the room.

Adelle moves over to Maurice's side and holds his hand.

Adelle strokes Maurice's hair.  Maurice stares down at his

food before looking up with great resolve.

The room is stunned.  Adelle gets off the bed and collects

herself.

Maurice is crushed.

The room is dead again.  Maurice drowns in his thoughts.

INT.  HOSPITAL CHAPEL - AFTERNOON

A small chapel.  Stain glass windows overlooking the parking

lot.  Maurice sits in his wheel chair at the back of the

room.  A few other patients are scattered in the four small

pews.

Maurice has his hands folded tightly and stares up at the

statue of Mary.  His concentration is broken as a man in a

full black suit and black shirt sits next to him.  Maurice

nods at the priest.

Maurice is lost.

The priest reaches into his jacket -- for the first time WE

SEE a Polo design on his shirt and a gaudy gold chain around

his neck.

Maurice stares at the card in disbelief.

Some of the patients turn around.

Maurice is flustered.  He can't take this.  His eyes become

desperate.

Clive waves his hands in the air excitedly.

Clive finishes.  He is surprised to find Maurice in tears.

Clive is thrown totally off as Maurice stares at him angrily

through streaming tears.

Maurice continues his powerful gaze until Clive looks away.

Clive gathers his things and leaves the chapel without

another word.  Maurice drops his head into his hands and

cries quietly.

INT.  HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

A change of shifts.  Stephanie gathers her things.  She lifts

her coat off the counter.  Underneath is a paper.  She spins

the paper to face her.  The headline reads, "The End of a

Journey - Parker Hospitalized."

HOSPITAL ROOM

Stephanie peeks into the dark room.

Stephanie waits for a response from the motionless figure on

the bed.  She leaves the room a little disappointed.

WE MOVE CLOSER TO THE BED.  We see Maurice laying still --

the battered photo of Ellen clutches to his chest.

INT.  HOSPITAL HALL - DAY

Stephanie is wheeling Maurice down the hall.  Maurice has a

glint of happiness in his eye.  They move through the doors

marked "Visitor's Area."

Maurice stretches a huge grin as KRIS REDDY gets up from a

chair.  Kris bends down and hugs Maurice emotionally.

LATER

Maurice and Kris seated in the corner of the room.

Beat.

The loss is evident on Maurice's eyes.

Maurice forces a smile.

Beat.  Kris glances at the hair on his forearm.

Beat.

Maurice sits back straight.  He looks upset.

Kris gets very emotional.  He rises from this chair.

Maurice turns to the window away from Kris.

Kris walks to the door and stops.

Kris is tortured.  He leaves the room.

INT.  HOSPITAL HALL - DAY

Maurice wheels himself into the hall from the waiting area.

He looks around.  His eyes lock on the EXIT SIGN over the

door at the end of the hall.  His eyes scan the area quickly.

He immediately finds the guard on the floor staring at him.

The guard nods ever so slightly as if to say, "I know what

you're thinking."  Maurice turns his attention to a small boy

in a hospital gown, being scolded by a head nurse.

The head nurse takes a chocolate bar out of the boy's tiny

hands.  The boy offers no response.  Maurice watches

curiously as STEPHANIE walks over and pats the boys head.

Maurice catches a small exchange -- Stephanie slips another

candy bar into his pocket.  The boy breaks into a warm smile.

Stephanie puts her fingers against her lips and winks.

Maurice takes this exchange in with great interest.

INT.  HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Stephanie steps into the room and prepares a tray of food.

The SILHOUETTED FIGURE of Maurice seated near the bay window

turns to face her.

The face stares back from the shadows.  She feels him

watching.

Beat.

Stephanie moves to Maurice... She stops short when his face

comes into view.  His eyes are raw -- red.  His face puffy.

Beat.  Maurice melts her with his expression.

She shakes her head "No" -- the tears welling up in her eyes.

Maurice reaches out and squeezes her soft trembling hand.

INT.  HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY

Stephanie throws a nervous smile to the guard as she escorts

a doctor down the hall... The doctor's oversized while lab

coat almost drags on the floor as he tries to hide the pain

of being on his feet.  MAURICE PARKER studies a bogus chart

in his hands.  His new glasses, sliding off his nose.  Beads

of sweat -- revealing his agony.

ELEVATOR

Three people in the elevator; Stephanie, Dr. Maurice Parker,

and a female physician.  The female doctor looks at Maurice

curiously, studying his demeanor -- she can't place him.

The ELEVATOR DOORS OPEN on the third floor... The SOUND OF A

TV FLOODS THE ELEVATOR COMPARTMENT.  Maurice looks up in

horror to see a close-up of his FACE superimposed on the TV

screen seated on the receptionist's desk.  A man gets on the

elevator.

The female doctor stares at the TV as the doors close -- she

immediately turns to Maurice... her view is blocked by the

new passenger... the elevator progresses down 2... 1...

The female doctor leans forward trying to get a glimpse of

Maurice... THE BELL DINGS as the doors open on the ground

floor.

Doctor Maurice Parker and Stephanie quickly exit... the

female doctor stays in the elevator and watches carefully.

DOWN THE HALL... Maurice pauses and turns around -- fear

etched across his face.  The female doctor looks around the

barren hall then turns back to Maurice.

The female doctor smiles as the doors shut.  After a few

moments of shock -- Maurice smiles back.

Stephanie yanks Maurice down the hall and out the EMERGENCY

ROOM EXIT.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

A colorful canopy of leaves... a familiar torn American flag.

Stephanie's white VW Rabbit pulls to a stop.

He turns back to Stephanie who stares back at him

emotionally.

Maurice holds her sad face in his scared hands.

Maurice gets out of the car painfully slow.  He pulls his

shoulder back upright with a laborious breath.  A sense of

pride returns to his face.  He turns back to Stephanie and

catches a horrified look.  He follows her stare...

She is staring at his shirt... He looks down to see a DARK

CRIMSON STAIN GROWING beneath the surface.  He covers the

area with his hand.

Beat.

He gives her his best smile and begins shuffling his feet

over the loose gravel of the road... one step at a time.

INT.  HOSPITAL STAIRS - AFTERNOON

A black man -- grey, balding hair walks hurriedly up the

stairs.  This is STAN NEWTON.

Keeping in step with Newton is a police officer.  SERGEANT

EMORY, jet white hair, army cut, gives him an intimidating

appearance.

OUTSIDE DOOR

Newton stops Emory before entering.

Emory lets the warning sink in before opening the door.

Adelle's VOICE IS BOOMING.

HOSPITAL ROOM

Adelle YELLS at Dr. Ray, a few nurses, and the guard who was

on duty.

She catches her breath.

Adelle notices the new people in the room.

Adelle walks up to Emory.

Adelle looks around at all the engrossed faces.

Adelle and Emory have a staring contest.  Adelle wins.

Adelle stands alone in a room with four men, and she is

clearly the one in charge.

The door flies open.  A police officer walks in pushing KRIS

REDDY through the door.

The officer holds out a long coat and hat.  Emory walks up to

Kris.

Kris looks to the empty bed and smiles... a BIG SMILE.

Beat.  Emory turns to the officer and ushers him to the door.

Adelle smiles.

Kris smiles innocently.

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

Police vehicles roam the city streets -- slowing to a crawl

at every white male over forty, walking the sidewalks.

ADELLE

scanning the crowded intersections through the open window of

her moving taxi.

KRIS

patrolling the streets on foot.  He stops at a hot dog vendor

and flashes a picture of Maurice from his wallet.  The vendor

shakes his head, "No."

A COMMOTION BREAKS OUT ONE BLOCK DOWN... Kris spins in that

direction... sees a crowd forming at the corner of the

sidewalk... Starts toward them... Kris sees something through

the thinner parts of the crowd... something laying on the

sidewalk... A man!  Kris' walk turns into a sprint.

Kris works his way through the growing crowd, puncturing the

center of the circle... Kris gazes down at the man writhing

on the concrete... A black man, shaking uncontrollably.  A

women standing over the fallen man waves the crowd back.

The crowd spreads out.  Kris looks down at the unconscious

man on the sidewalk sadly -- Kris' thoughts race.  He moves

on with newfound concern.

INT.  HOMELESS SHELTER - EVENING

A converted gymnasium.  The room is splintered into rows of

folding tables and chairs.  Against the wall, is the serving

stand.  Groups of volunteers dispense sandwiches and soup.

IN THE CORNER

The room is crowded with homeless men and women and a few

children.  In the back we find MAURICE.  In his old clothes,

and tired disheveled appearance -- Maurice is virtually

invisible in this crowd.  He presses something to his injured

side.  His condition has worsened.

He eyes the entrance where a POLICE OFFICER walks in and

moves to the serving counter.  The officer asks the serving

lady something, and shows her a picture.  She shrugs her

shoulders and continues serving.  The cop takes one last look

around the hundreds of hungry people leaving the room.

Maurice pulls up his hand from underneath his shirt.  The

napkin he was holding at his side is SATURATED WITH BLOOD.

Maurice replaces it with a clean napkin.

EXT.  POLICE STATION - MORNING

SUNRISE ON SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.

INT.  POLICE STATION - MORNING

Emory rubs his eyes as the papers pile up on his desk.

OFFICER KLEIN lays out the newspapers one after the other.

Klein lays the last paper on the table.

Klein opens the door.  Adelle walks in and stands at a

distance from Emory.  She looks beat.  Her eyes are

bloodshot, and tired.

Adelle is visibly dejected.

Adelle fiddles with her coat.

EXT.  JUNIPERO SERRA FREEWAY - DAY

The freeway is packed -- bumper to bumper.  Cars standing

still in the hot sun.

A hispanic man in his late forties, JUAN is seated in his

Dodge Caravan when he sees someone in his rearview mirror.  A

man is using a stick as a cane.  The struggling man makes his

way along the shoulder very slowly.

Juan reaches over to his passenger seat and turns over the

L.A. Times.  Under the heading, "He's Back!" is Maurice's

picture.  Juan quickly rolls down his window as Maurice

passes by on the shoulder.

Maurice is startled at the man's yell, but then smiles when

the words register.  Maurice struggles forward.

Juan keeps yelling encouragements... This grabs the attention

of other drivers who realize who is walking past them.  One

by one, car doors open and people call to Maurice.

Cars start to HONK... More and more people turn to see the

commotion... The YELLING AND HONKING IS JOINED BY WHISTLES

AND CHEERS --

Maurice can't believe it -- he tries to smile but can't hold

it.  His face tightens with every step.  His shirt is soiled

with blood.  He raises his hand and gives a weak wave to a

woman who holds up her little boy through the sunroof of the

car.

A WCAU NEWS VAN

parked in the traffic.  A NEWSREPORTER stares through

binoculars.

The crew quickly prepares their cameras and equipment.  They

move like lightning.  In seconds they are shooting the crowd

and their hero.

The air is CHARGED... THE NOISE GROWING, MORE AND MORE PEOPLE

JOIN IN... LOUDER... People stand on top of their cars to get

a better view...

A POLICE CAR

stuck in traffic.  OFFICER DAWSON looks around as the PARADE

OF NOISE SURGES TOWARDS HIM.  He looks out his window and

catches a GLIMPSE OF MAURICE LIMPING UP THE FREEWAY.

INT.  POLICE STATION - DAY

Officer Klein busts into Emory's office just as Adelle is

about to leave.

Adelle is instantly charged with life.

RADIO ROOM

Adelle and as many officers that will fit in the room are

listening to the radio conversation.

Emory CLICKS TO LISTEN.  THE SPEAKERS EXPLODE WITH HONKING

AND CHEERING -- IT SOUNDS LIKE A CARNIVAL.  DAWSON YELLS OVER

THE COMMOTION.

Beat.

Adelle and the room of officers look confused.

Emory is thinking fast.

Beat.  Emory looks at Adelle's expectant face.  He talks into

the C.B. without taking his eyes off her.

Emory thinks.  He talks to the other officers in the room.

The room empties fast.  Emory talks to Adelle.

Somehow, Adelle's face doesn't convey much confidence.

INT.  PACIFICA MALL - DAY

The shops are empty.  The food court abandoned.

Close to five hundred people are huddled at the center of the

mall.  The HI-FI HOUSE has four large screen TV's in their

bay windows and speakers on the outside of the doors to lure

passing shoppers in.

All four sets have the same program on -- A NEWSBREAK on

Maurice Parker.  The crowd listening anxiously.

A shock of concern shoots through the crowd.

The picture cuts to a HELICOPTER SHOT OF DOWNTOWN PACIFICA --

at first it just looks like an aerial of buildings, then the

camera ZOOMS.  It catches a tiny figure struggling through a

street intersection.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Newspapers spiral through the air.  Maurice stretches his

neck up, squinting at the sun.  The SILHOUETTE OF A

HELICOPTER hovers above him.  The NOISE is overpowering.

Maurice's fatigue grows, every muscle, every ounce of energy

goes into each step.  Maurice clutches the side of his

head... the steps halted... hands trembling, teeth clenched,

eyes squeezed shut.  A surge of intense pain tries to buckle

him... Maurice fights it off as he moves his feet again.

The helicopter SWOOPS above as he makes his turn onto a FINAL

STRETCH OF ROAD adjacent to the BEACH.

Maurice stops dead in his tracks as he turns the corner to

find a SEA OF PEOPLE WAITING FOR HIM.  A momentous sight...

people lined along the street for as far as the eye can see.

AN EXPLOSION OF YELLING, CHEERING CALIFORNIAN'S ENGULFS THE

AIR as they spot Maurice standing at the end of the street.

The CROWD SURGES TOWARDS HIM.

Maurice is dazed... the noise, the pain, the faces swirl in

his head as thousands of people surround him.  Maurice is

overwhelmed.  He is about to collapse when someone takes hold

of his arm.  Maurice turns to see KRIS REDDY STANDING NEXT TO

HIM.  In the midst of this chaos and growing madness.

Maurice and Kris have an entire conversation with one

emotional look.

The SOUNDS of SIRENS BREAK the moment.  Kris turns to see two

police cars turn on the street behind them.

Kris turns to Maurice.

Kris lets go of his arm and moves like lightning.  He jumps

atop a fire-hydrant and yells to the crowd.

Kris points to the squad cars inching their way up the

street.

THE SQUAD CARS

AS THEY COME TO A HALT as a wall of people stand in their

way.  The SPEAKER ON THE POLICE CAR BLARES THROUGH THE AIR.

The people don't move.  A WOMAN carrying a BABY makes the

baby move her little hand in a waving gesture to the officers

behind the wheel of the police cars.  The officers look at

each other in disbelief.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

The far end of the beach road.  A POLICE CAR SCREECHES TO A

STOP.  Sergeant Emory and Adelle get out.

Adelle is completely blown away.  She looks around at the

PANDEMONIUM.  Thousands of men, women and children

celebrating with APPLAUSE AND CHEERS, HELICOPTERS IN THE AIR,

camera crews standing on raised platforms.  Adelle drinks in

the ELECTRIC ATMOSPHERE with awe.

Emory yells orders into his WALKIE-TALKIE as Adelle breaks

the outer edge of the crowd and disappears into the field of

spectators.

Emory CLICKS OFF and looks around at the growing crowd -- he

turns to see a PUBLIC BUS UNLOADING PASSENGERS -- fifty more

spectators rush off the bus and rush toward the crowded

street.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Maurice stares down at the ground... willing each new step.

THE CHEERS AND WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT BLURRING INTO A

UNDISTINGUISHABLE SOUND.

Maurice looks up for a moment as something grabs his

attention -- Maurice gasps for air as his eyes focus... The

small faces become clearer... Maurice stands twenty feet from

the entire population of PACIFICA HIGH SCHOOL.  They cover

one side of the street for an entire block.  Stretched over

their heads, held up by twenty students is a HUGE HAND

PAINTED BANNER.  Maurice reads the words:

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Trucks unload dozens upon dozens of blue-wooden barricades.

An assembly line of officers place the barricades end to end

at the place where the sand meets the pavement.

Emory yells orders as a new truck arrives.

INT.  NEWS MONTAGE - DAY

SHOTS OF THE PULSATING CROWD... GLIMPSES OF MAURICE MOVING

THROUGH THE CENTER OF THIS MASS.  OVER THESE PICTURES WE HEAR

SNIPPETS OF VOICES OF TV ANCHOR PEOPLE, RADIO PERSONALITIES

AND ANNOUNCERS ALL OVER THE COUNTRY, DISSOLVING INTO EACH

OTHER ONE AFTER THE OTHER...

FATHER BERCHMAN

the father that brought Maurice in out of the cold in the

Midwest, praying intensely in his chapel.  AN OLD HAND-HELD

RADIO IS ON THE PEW NEXT TO HIM.  He listens to the updates.

MR. CALDWELL

Isaac's father, sitting in a TV station watching the monitors

as the feeds come in from California.  Mr. Caldwell watches

with great emotion, eyes glued to the screen.

SERGEANT DALLY

the police officer from Philadelphia who worked with Adelle.

He listens with the rest of the precinct to a portable stereo

on a windowsill.  The room is silent -- everyone hangs on the

words coming from the speakers.

GERALD

in a hotel room.  The TV FILLING THE ROOM WITH NEWS.  Gerald

sits behind two large room-service carts of food.  He takes a

big bite of a sandwich with an emotional smile to the

television.

ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL

where STEPHANIE watches in the jam packed recreation room

with about thirty patients watching a TV screen mounted high

in the corner of the room.  Stephanie looks a mess, she's

been crying for a while.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

The BOISTEROUS crowd parts like a ripple effect as Maurice

walks through.  The eyes fall emotionally on him as he stares

down at the ground trying to keep moving.

Maurice gasps harder now, his eyes stinging with drops of

sweat falling from his brow.  People in the crowd cover their

mouths in shock as they get a clear view of him... His shirt

soaked on one side with blood, his entire body shaking with

pain, and exhaustion, his face hollow and pale -- ghostly.

Maurice stops in his tracks.  He looks up at a wooden sign,

worn from the years of salt water air.  The sign reads:

Maurice's thoughts fade away from this place, this time...

EXT.  PHILADELPHIA - FIFTEEN YEARS AGO - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

WE ARE IN THE PARKER BEDROOM.  The lights are off.  The

MOONLIGHT FROM THE WINDOWS BLANKETS Young Maurice and Young

Ellen as they lay in bed.  Ellen is cradled in Maurice's

arms.  She is awake and watching the shadows dance on the

ceiling.  She speaks in whispers.

Maurice opens his eyes and stares at his beautiful wife.

Beat.

Maurice chuckles.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat.

Ellen smiles as she cradles deeper into Maurice's arms.

Husband and wife fall asleep together.

EXT.  PACIFICA BEACH SIGN - DAY (PRESENT)

Maurice snaps back to the present, the PAIN AND COMMOTION

come back in a tidal wave of reality.

Maurice wipes the tears in his eyes and tries to take a step.

Someone blocks his way.

Adelle looks at her wounded Uncle sadly.  She touches his

shirt and her hand comes away with blood.

The inner circle of people bursts open, as KRIS BREAKS

THROUGH.

Maurice touches Adelle's cheek turning her attention back to

him.  He barely manages to get the words out.

Beat.  Maurice begins crying uncontrollably.

Maurice takes her hand and bends down putting his forehead to

her hand as if getting blessings from her.

Adelle's heart is breaking.  She weeps openly as she

straightens her Uncle to an upright position.  She wipes the

tears from his eyes with her hand gently.

AT THAT MOMENT THE INNER CIRCLE BREAKS OPEN AS TWO OFFICERS

RUSH IN.  They reach for Maurice.

Adelle stands firm, the strength in her growing with each

second.

The officers are taken off guard.  They look around at the

countless sea of eyes on them.  Adelle sees they won't do

anything and moves to Maurice's side.

Maurice begins to walk again.  Adelle to one side, Kris to

the other and thousands of people following in step.

EXT.  BEACH FRONT - DAY

The wave of people led by Maurice walk toward the beach.  The

beach is blocked off by barricades all along it's perimeter.

Police officers stand every ten feet along it's edge.

A young officer watches fearfully as the ocean of people move

towards him.  OFFICER GANTZ TALKS INTO HIS WALKIE-TALKIE.

SERGEANT EMORY

at the other end of the beach barricade, holding back

hundreds of people trying to get to the beach.  Emory holds

his walkie-talkie and looks around at the sea of anxious

faces.  He makes eye contact with a woman in tears.

OFFICER GANTZ

clicking off his walkie-talkie as the crowd presses up to the

barricade.  Officer Gantz is in awe as Maurice appears from

the crowd -- looking like a ghost of war... a holy

apparition.  Maurice works his way painfully to Gantz.

Gantz looks into Maurice's pleading eyes.  Maurice tries to

say something, but nothing can come out...

Gantz turns away from Maurice and picks up one of the

barricades.  He makes an opening about three feet wide.

Gantz turns back to Maurice, stands at attention, and steps

aside.

Adelle and Kris watch in amazement as Maurice TAKES HIS FIRST

STEP ONTO THE SAND.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

An empty beach.  ALL SOUND AND CHAOS DISAPPEARS.  THE GENTLE

HISS OF THE OCEAN FILLS THE AIR.

The last fifty yards...

The steps in the sand, heavy, torturous.  Each step, a step

closer to her...

Maurice picks up the pace.  His numb feet making prints in

the sand.  His lungs on fire...

Twenty feet left... Ten... Five...

The COOL WATER engulfs his feet and ankles.  Maurice falls to

his knees like a man falling before God.

Kneeling in the water, Maurice raises his hands to his eyes.

The water spills between his fingers... clear, pure, magical.

Maurice GASPS hard as he falls onto his back.  The water

comes in and washes over him... Gasping harder... He's

staring into the sky... Another wave of ocean gently blankets

him... Gasp... He spots something above him, fluttering...

his vision BLURS... WHITE FLUTTERING... SLOW-MOTION.  THE

IMAGE CLEARS... Maurice smiles as he makes out the image of a

WHITE DOVE FLYING ABOVE HIM...

Maurice takes a short breath, very short.  His body goes

still -- his eyes stay fixes at one point... No more pain, no

more loss, no more words...

The water washes over Maurice A. Parker...

Over his lifeless body...

And over his smile...

