Sound of a piano being played. Sparse but beautiful.

INT. RECORDING ROOM - DAY

HARVEY SHINE, mid-60's, sits at a piano in a scruffy

recording room, tinkering. We hold on his slightly sad,

intense gaze. Just then a shaft of crude light illuminates

him, accompanied by a knocking sound. From behind a studio

window, JOHNNIE, a young rocker type in his 20's beckons.

Harvey closes the piano lid.

INT. STUDIO - DAY

Johnnie, unpacking his lunch and turning on various buttons,

sits at a mixing desk. In front of him are 2 large TV

monitors. Harvey joins him.

Johnnie reluctantly presses various buttons.

A `cheesy' commercial for a washing detergent plays. It is

accompanied by a jolly classical score. Harvey looks on

forlornly at his work. As it comes to an end with a flourish,

Harvey lowers his head. Beat. Johnnie glances at him.

Harvey looks up, confused.

We hold on Harvey's tired, pensive face.

INT. STUDIO CAR PARK / QUEENS - DAY

Harvey hurriedly exits the studio, catching up with a man

walking to his car.

Silence. Harvey looks at Marvin.

Beat.

Beat.

And with that Marvin gets in and drives   off, leaving Harvey

standing alone in the car park. We hold   on his face - he's

tired. He looks about him, then down at   his raincoat draped

over his arm. He lifts it and drapes it   over the other arm.

Sound of interior airborne plane. The seat-belt `ping'

chimes.

INT. PLANE - NIGHT

Harvey, seated in a crowded economy cabin, looks down from

the now extinguished seat-belt light. He looks a little hot.

Reaching up to turn on the air, he knocks his tray - knocking

his drink into his lap.

An attractive middle-aged woman, seated next to him, looks

over.

The woman, perhaps wary of the length of the flight, smiles

noncommittally. The Stewardess returns.

The Stewardess heads off. Harvey mops himself up. He places

the small mass of wet towels on his tray and sighs. Glancing

out the window, he then turns to the woman.

The woman looks over.

Harvey nods.

The woman smiles again, then looks up as the Stewardess

returns with Harvey's drink.

Harvey is about to continue speaking when the woman

interrupts.

The woman covers herself in a blanket and turns out her

light, turning herself away from Harvey.

We hold on Harvey from a distance, spotlit in a sea of

darkness.

Sound of a commercial London Radio Station. A `phone-in'

competition takes place.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - MORNING

A radio hangs from a mail trolley. KATE, mid 40's, dressed in

a green uniform, turns into the path of a suburban house. She

passes a postman - who nods his head.

Kate smiles before unlocking the front door.

INT. HALLWAY - MORNING

Kate comes through the door, picking up a small pile of mail

off the floor.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Kate puts the mail on a kitchen table. Just then MAGGIE,

Kate's mum, enters in her dressing gown.

They kiss.

Maggie seems to ignore this piece of information and heads to

the kettle. Filling it up, she peers out the back window.

We see her POV of her neighbour busying himself in his back

garden. Smoke rises from a small garden shed.

Kate's mum sighs and turns away from the window.

Beat.

Kate winces. Kate's mum looks hurt.

As Kate leaves, Maggie watches her go. She sighs, before

returning her attention back to the window.

POV: The Neighbour enters his smoking shed and closes the

door.

EXT. HIGH ST - DAY

A busy High St. Kate moves amongst the throng boarding a bus.

INT. BUS - DAY

Close up on Kate's face gently swaying. She stands reading a

paperback, oblivious to the crowded bus around her.

INT. TRAIN - DAY

Kate sits reading on a speeding train.

INT. HEATHROW AIRPORT / TRAIN PLATFORM - DAY

The Heathrow Express comes into the station. Kate disembarks.

INT. TERMINAL 3 / BOOTH - DAY

Kate arrives at a booth. A sign reads: `PSA - Public

Statistics Agency'. A West Indian woman, dressed in the same

green uniform, stands waiting. She holds a newspaper, folded

open at the crossword.

Kate goes behind the counter and turns on a light. As the

booth illuminates, Kate unlocks a door behind and goes in.

Without looking up from her crossword, Aggie follows.

INT. PSA / LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Kate places her bag in a locker and takes out a pair of

heels. Sitting down to put them on, Aggie enters.

Kate thinks for a beat.

Aggie giggles to herself and writes it in. Kate stands just

as another co-worker hurries in.

She kisses Kate on the cheek and opens her locker.

Without looking up, Aggie `tuts' and shakes her head. Oonagh

decides to ignore.

Kate thinks for a beat.

Aggie laughs and scribbles it in. Oonagh rolls her eyes.

Aggie `tuts' again and waves Oonagh away. Kate hands Oonagh a

clip-board and the two of them head out.

INT. BAGGAGE CAROUSEL - DAY

As luggage spews out, a dishevelled Harvey looks on. He sees

his case and awkwardly pulling it from the belt, heads off.

INT. ARRIVALS HALL - DAY

Oonagh and Kate stand next to each other, interviewing

returning travellers. Kate interviews an elderly couple. It's

clear she's good at her job.

INT. ARRIVAL DOORS

Harvey comes through a set of sliding double doors, wheeling

his case behind him.

INT. ARRIVALS HALL - DAY

Kate finishes up the interview with the elderly couple, and

turns to see an approaching Harvey in the distance. She

registers his attempts to steer a wide berth of her, but

matches his movements, bringing him to a stop.

Beat. Kate's directness, brings Harvey to a stop. He turns to

look at Kate. She smiles. Beat.

Harvey continues on, glancing back once more as he walks

away. Kate turns to Oonagh and shrugs, before returning her

attention back to the sea of arrivals.

EXT. TERMINAL 3 - DAY

A Taxi pulls away from the Terminal.

INT. TAXI - DAY

Harvey sits in the back with his phone to his ear.

Harvey hangs up. He dials another number.

A sharp `beep' cuts him off. Harvey hangs up and looks out

the window. Cranes loom on the horizon. He yawns.

EXT. HOTEL - DAY

The Taxi pulls into the forecourt of a mid-market West End

London Hotel. Harvey gets out and pays the driver.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Harvey approaches the front desk.

The Concierge taps into his computer.

The Concierge taps some more.

More tapping.

The Concierge looks at Harvey. Beat. Harvey shrugs.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAY

Harvey enters the room. He places his case on the bed, takes

off his jacket and goes to the window.

A roller blind is pulled down. Harvey tugs on the cord, to no

avail at first. Then suddenly it whips up, causing Harvey to

duck backwards as the flailing cord almost takes his eye out.

Warily, Harvey steps forward and looks down at the busy

street below. He goes to open the window but it is stuck. He

tries again - but it won't budge.

He looks around the room, then up at the now fully contracted

blind. Tentatively he reaches up and pulls the cord to lower

the blind a little. It slowly starts to unravel and

unravel...and unravel, until it hits the bottom of the window

sill with a gentle thud. Harvey stands in semi-darkness.

Just then, to his relief, his phone rings. He hurries over to

the bed and retrieves it.

Noticeably dejected, Harvey sits down on the bed.

Harvey looks around the bland room.

Harvey hangs up.

EXT. STREET - DUSK

Kate, dressed for the evening, hurries along a street. Her

phone rings.

INT. KITCHEN - DUSK

Kate's mum stands not far from her back window.

EXT. STREET - DUSK

INT. KITCHEN - DUSK

EXT. STREET - DUSK

INT. KITCHEN - DUSK

POV: A now bare chested Neighbour at work in his garden.

Smoke rising from his shed.

EXT. STREET - DUSK

INT. KITCHEN - DUSK

EXT. STREET - DUSK

Kate hangs up and crosses a busy road.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DUSK

Kate's mum continues to spy. POV: The Neighbour bends down

out of sight. On rising again, he sees Maggie at the window

and waves. Maggie flinches, before dropping the curtain.

INT. PUB - DUSK

Kate comes through the door. Oonagh sits on her own at a

booth. Kate joins her.

Just then two guys approach from the bar.

Matt embraces Kate, then turns to his friend.

Simon shakes Kate's hand. Kate blushes ever so slightly.

Awkward pause.

They all sit down.

INT. SHOWER - DUSK

Close up of Harvey's face under shower.

INT. BEDROOM - DUSK

Harvey puts on a cream linen jacket, that matches a pair of

slacks. He looks at himself in a full length mirror. He looks

good. There is a knock at the door, just as his phone rings.

Harvey opens the door, as he answers his phone.

A young African man wheels in a trolley with a pot of tea and

some biscuits.

He heads towards the window. Harvey turns.

Too late. The blind wips up - toggle hitting the young man in

the eye.

The porter, covering his eye, nods, backing towards the door.

Harvey wedges a fiver into his free hand as he retreats

rapidly. The door closes. Beat. Harvey returns the phone to

his ear.

No answer. He sits down on the bed and pours some tea. Just

then his phone rings again. He reaches for it, knocking the

trolley and the tea onto himself.

Grabbing a tea towel, he dabs his trousers.

INT. PUB - NIGHT

From a distance, across a crowded Friday night bar, we watch

our gang chat. It seems to be going well. Laughter hangs in

the air.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

A cab pulls up in front of a posh looking restaurant. Harvey

steps out, dressed in the same cream jacket, but now sporting

a pair of dark trousers. He looks like a bad lounge act. The

cab pulls away as Harvey turns towards the restaurant.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Harvey enters. Three young men stand to one side, chatting

animatedly. On seeing Harvey, one of them looks up.

Scott turns to his friends.

Laughter.

Just then Harvey's phone rings.

Harvey turns away and answers.

Harvey hangs up. And putting on his `positive' face turns

back to Scott's friends.

Slightly awkward pause.

The guys smile a little too readily.

Harvey tries to smile back.

As Harvey moves off into the adjacent room, the guys watch

him go.

INT. PUB / HALLWAY OUTSIDE BATHROOM - NIGHT

Kate and Oonagh wait in line for the bathroom.

Oonagh smiles.

Just then Kate's phone rings.

Kate nods and indicates that the loo is free. Oonagh goes in,

as Kate answers her phone.

INT. DINING ROOM / RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Harvey enters the room. He sees his daughter, standing off to

one side, with Scott, talking to some friends.

She looks beautiful. He takes a moment to just watch her. As

she turns in slight slow motion, she smiles on seeing her

father and joins him.

Slightly awkward pause.

They embrace. Beat. Off Susan's look...

Susan smiles at her Father. Beat.

Harvey looks over at Scott in the distance, sharing a laugh

with his buddies.

Susan looks at her father, a little irked.

Harvey looks at his daughter.

Beat.

Harvey looks over.

Just then, they are approached by Scott guiding some friends

over to say hello.

Susan's girlfriends shriek with delight as they approach.

Susan turns to greet them.

As Susan greets her friends, Harvey retreats.

INT. PUB - NIGHT

Kate rejoins the others. Oonagh and Matt are standing. Matt

has his jacket on.

Kate makes eyes at Oonagh, who shrugs innocently. Oonagh goes

to kiss Kate, while Matt says goodbye to Simon.

Oonagh kisses Kate and heads off with Matt, leaving Kate

standing slightly awkwardly next to a seated Simon.

Kate sits down.

They share a smile.

Simon heads off to the bar. Kate watches him go. She allows

herself a smile.

INT. RESTAURANT/BAR AREA - NIGHT

Harvey stands at the bar and downs a whiskey. Picking up

another glass, he turns away, and with drink in hand,

approaches a group of people standing around a table. As he

nears, a distinguished older man with a healthy main of white

hair sees him and momentarily touches the arm of the woman

standing next to him. She turns around to see Harvey

approaching.

Harvey turns his gaze to the white haired man and nods.

There is a palpable sense of tension in the air.

Harvey turns to a couple, standing nearby.

Awkward Beat.

Awkward silence.

Everyone begins to take their assigned seats. Harvey is on

the inside close to the middle. It's a bit tight and involves

people getting up to make way. Harvey gets to his seat and is

just about to sit when his phone rings. Brian and Jean share

a look. Taking it out of his pocket Harvey looks at the

incoming number.

Harvey makes his way back along the table, causing people to

stand again.

Harvey walks away from the table.

INT. PUB - NIGHT

Kate sits waiting. Simon has finally been served and turns

from the bar with drinks in hand. As he does a young woman,

standing with a small party of two other girls and a guy,

greets him. Kate looks on. It's obvious from Simon's reaction

that they know each other well. Just then Kate's phone rings

again. She looks at the number and thinks about ignoring it,

but in the end, reluctantly picks up.

Kate gets up and moves towards the back-room.

INT. RESTAURANT FOYER - NIGHT

Harvey stands on the phone.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Harvey returns to the table. Everyone is seated.

He notices his name place has been moved to the end.

Harvey takes the last remaining seat. Brian stands.

Everyone turns to Harvey as he stands to make a speech. Just

then his phone rings on vibrate.

Harvey scrambles to turn it off, as Jean rolls her eyes.

Momentary awkward silence.

Harvey sits.

Everyone tucks in. Harvey sits slightly blushing at the end

of the table, knowing he's blown it.

INT. PUB - NIGHT

Kate hangs up and returns to the main room, to find that

Simon has been joined at their table by the young group. Kate

bolsters herself before returning to the table.

Kate holds up her hand, before blushing a little.

Kate sits down.

Kate shakes her head.

Kate glances at Simon.

Melissa looks at Simon and grins.

Slightly awkward pause, broken by Andrew.

Kate looks on as the girls laugh.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Harvey sits at the end of the table, looking on, as everyone

talks animatedly around him. He eats his food and drinks

plenty of wine. Up near the middle Scott shares a joke with

Brian. Just then Susan, who has been talking to the best man,

turns and catches her father's eye. He smiles at her and

raises a glass. Susan smiles back before returning her

attention back to her neighbour.

INT. PUB BOOTH - NIGHT

Kate sits among the group. She too seems to be detached from

the proceedings.

As the conversation continues in this vein, Kate glances at

Simon. He seems more at ease in this company.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The meal is drawing to a close. People have gotten up and are

circulating around the table and nearby.

INT. BAR AREA - NIGHT

Harvey stands at the bar. He downs a drink. Jean approaches.

The Barman obliges.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat.

Jean looks into Harvey's eyes. Long beat.

Harvey stares back, momentarily transfixed, before turning

away dismissive.

Jean walks away. Harvey stands at the bar. Susan comes into

the room. She approaches.

Beat.

Beat.

Susan smiles.

Beat. Harvey looks away, then back.

Silence.

The colour drains from Harvey's ruddy face.

Beat.

Harvey momentarily turns away from his daughter, to compose

himself, before turning back.

Harvey leans in and kisses his daughter on the forehead.

Susan reluctantly walks away as Harvey lifts the phone to his

ear. We hold on his face. With Susan gone he lowers the

phone. He looks frightened.

INT. MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Harvey enters the rest-room and heads to a bank of basins. He

turns on a tap and bends down - drinking profusely. He

splashes his face then rises and begins to dry it with some

paper towels.

Harvey suddenly bends over as though he'd been punched hard

in the stomach. He rises, red in the face, holding his nose,

desperately trying to hold it in. But he can't - Harvey sobs

huge heaving muffled cries...

Just then, someone enters. Head down, Harvey lunges for the

door and exits.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Harvey stumbles out of the restaurant and into a waiting cab.

The cab pulls away.

INT. PUB - NIGHT

Kate sits surrounded by laughter. Simon's attention is firmly

fixed on his friends. Kate's humiliation is magnified as we

slowly move into her face.

Kate gets up and walks away. Everyone momentarily stops

chatting and looks to Simon, who shrugs.

INT. LADIES - NIGHT

Kate enters a cubicle. She sits down to have a pee. We hold

on her sad face. She suddenly grimaces, before holding firm.

But not before a tear has been expelled and rolls down her

cheek. She swats it away.

INT. TAXI - NIGHT

We hold on Harvey's sad face as it gently bobs in the back of

a moving cab.

EXT. PUB - NIGHT

Kate exits the pub, just as a cab pulls up. As Harvey exits

one side, Kate gets into the other, as the cab pulls away

again.

INT. REGISTRY OFFICE - MORNING

Bride and Groom stand at the head of the room, saying their

vows. Harvey stands near the back, looking on. As the

ceremony is concluded the audience spontaneously burst into

applause. Harvey looks around the room, then back at his

daughter, as she smiles giddily at her husband. Harvey slips

out the door.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Carrying his case, Harvey hails a Taxi and gets in.

INT. TERMINAL 3 - DAY

Kate, back in green, stands next to a young couple asking

them questions about their travel arrangements.

EXT. STREET - DAY

The Taxi comes to a stop in `classic' mid-day London traffic.

INT. TAXI - DAY

Harvey glances at his watch, then out at the mass of cars in

front of them. His phone rings. He picks up.

The line goes dead. Harvey puts his phone away. He glances

out the window again as the Taxi crawls forward, before again

coming to a stop. Harvey leans forward.

The driver, looking a little irked, glances at Harvey in his

mirror.

Harvey rubs his neck and glances again at his watch.

INT. BOOTH - DAY

Kate eats a snack, while reading a book. Her phone suddenly

rings. She sighs quietly before slowly picking it up.

EXT. HEATHROW / TERMINAL 3 - DAY

A Taxi pulls up. Harvey gets out, pays the driver and hurries

into the Terminal.

INT. TERMINAL 3 / CHECK-IN COUNTER - DAY

The counter is mobbed. A long queue snakes away from it.

Harvey hurries to the front, where a male Steward is

attending to another passenger.

Harvey sees another Steward momentarily free, and turns to

her.

Harvey looks around.

People look over.

Harvey looks about him.

INT. TERMINAL 3 - DAY

Harvey sits holding his phone. He dials a number, lifting the

phone to his ear. He gets voice-mail.

Harvey hangs up and stares at the phone. Beat. He looks up

and around the Terminal. A young child has a tantrum nearby.

Suddenly his phone rings.

Beat. Marvin sighs.

Silence.

Beat.

The line goes dead. Harvey closes his phone. Beat. He stares

ahead into space, then stands and walks away.

INT. BOOTH - DAY

Kate closes up the booth.

INT. TERMINAL 3 / CHEZ GERARD (BAR/RESTAURANT) - DAY

Kate sits at a table near the bar, drinking a glass of wine

and reading her book. She glances up as a man enters. Harvey

takes a seat at the bar.

The Barman serves Harvey. Harvey immediately downs it.

The Barman refills his glass. Again Harvey knocks it back.

Kate glances up from her book.

The Barman glances at Harvey.

Harvey reaches for the now full glass. But knocks it,

spilling it into his lap.

Kate looks up again, along with the few other patrons in the

bar. Harvey registers their gaze.

Kate smiles, before returning to her book. Harvey dabs his

trousers with some napkins.

Harvey puts the sodden napkins down onto the bar. He looks at

himself in the mirror behind the bar and rubs his chest. He

sighs and glances around the room. He sees Kate and

recognizes her.

Kate looks up. Beat.

Kate nods.

Kate returns to her book. Beat.

Kate looks up.

Beat. Harvey downs another shot. Kate looks up again.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat.

Harvey winces, lowering his head into his hand. Putting some

money onto the bar, he turns and joins Kate, taking a seat at

an adjacent table.

Beat. Finally, Kate looks up again at this strange man.

Kate looks at Harvey sympathetically for a moment.

Kate blushes ever so slightly.

Kate can't help but smile. Beat.

She indicates her book.

Kate smiles and nods. Just then her phone rings.

Kate smiles as she takes out her phone and looks at the

incoming number. She is about to answer, when she stops

herself.

She thinks for a moment, before putting the phone back.

Kate can't help but smile.

Kate can't help but smile wider.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Kate's mum pulls the phone away from her ear, perplexed by

the lack of response. Her eyes wander to the window. Drawing

back the curtain, she looks out. POV: The Neighbour, now

sporting a white apron, busies himself as usual. He suddenly

bends down and heaves what would best be described as a body

bag onto his shoulder. As he stumbles under the weight, he

carries it into the shed. Kate's mum turns away ashen.

INT. CHEZ GERARD - DAY

Harvey and Kate remain seated at adjacent tables. Muzak plays

in the background. They are now virtually the sole patrons of

Chez Gerard. Kate eats a salad and reads her book. Just then,

Harvey's food arrives. Beat.

Kate can't help but smile at Harvey's persistence. Beat. She

puts down her book.

Harvey, momentarily taken aback by the directness of Kate's

question, is about to answer, when the sound of a vacuum

cleaner erupts. Harvey and Kate look over to see a cleaner

vacuuming the floor nearby.

Beat.

The vacuuming stops. They both look over, then back.

Harvey smiles a little sheepishly.

Beat.

The vacuuming starts up again. They look over then back.

Harvey laughs.

Beat.

Harvey looks away.

Breaking from his reverie.

Vacuuming stops. Beat. Kate looks away.

Kate smiles.

Harvey tries to physicalize it.

Kate stretches her top lip.

As they sit there, lips stretched, nattering away, we start

to pull back. Accompanied by a simple piano score we look on

as they appear to us, momentarily, like an ordinary couple.

EXT. CHEZ GERARD - DAY

Harvey and Kate exit the restaurant. They stand opposite each

other in the quietening Terminal.

Slightly awkward pause. Kate glances at her watch.

Harvey hadn't really thought.

Beat.

They shake hands, smiling. Just then Kate's phone rings

again.

Kate turns and leaves. Harvey watches her go.

INT. TERMINAL / HOTEL PHONE BANK - DAY

Harvey picks up a hotel phone.

INT. HEATHROW EXPRESS PLATFORM - DAY

Kate waits on the platform as a train glides into the

station.

INT. TRAIN - DAY

Kate stands in a crowded middle section. A mild commotion

ensues down the other end of the carriage as somebody

squeezes aboard at the last.

Kate looks up to see Harvey making his way down the crowded

carriage.

People reluctantly make way for Harvey and his case. He

finally arrives next to Kate as the train jolts forward.

Momentarily losing his balance, Harvey steadies himself on a

businessman's shoulder. Kate leans forward to help, as the

businessman turns slightly irritated.

Kate nods. Harvey smiles a little sheepishly as the train

speeds off.

EXT. TRACK - DAY

The train speeds past on its way into London.

INT. TRAIN - DAY

Harvey and Kate stand next to each other, gently swaying, in

the crowded carriage. The businessman standing next to

Harvey, talks loudly on his phone about his day's conquest.

Harvey and Kate share a look. In a Keatonesque performance,

Harvey, keeping his body rigid, slowly leans further and

further away from the man, making Kate smile.

INT. PADDINGTON STATION - LATE AFTERNOON

The train pulls into the station. We watch as Harvey and Kate

alight with the crowd.

EXT. PADDINGTON STATION - LATE AFTERNOON

They come to a stop outside. It's still light. A beautiful

fall afternoon.

Harvey looks towards the Taxi rank.

Kate smiles.

EXT. LONDON STREETS - LATE AFTERNOON

Montage: Accompanied by a wonderfully romantic little ditty,

we watch from a distance as Harvey and Kate navigate the

buzzing streets of central London. All is alive and well.

Harvey drops his suitcase off at the same hotel he was

staying in before.

As they wander through the city, foreign students mingle,

policemen chat, and office workers linger. London is at its

best.

EXT. SOUTH BANK - LATE AFTERNOON

The sky glows a pale orange as Harvey and Kate walk and talk

along the South Bank.

Kate looks at Harvey a moment, then smiles.

Harvey looks at Kate quizzically.

Harvey shakes his head.

Kate looks at Harvey.

Just then Kate's phone rings again.

They come to a stop as Kate takes out her phone and looks at

the handset display.

Harvey nods.

Harvey smiles. We hear Maggie's warble continue as Kate

listens. Beat.

Harvey looks at Kate. Kate shakes her head. Maggie continues.

Kate hangs up.

They start walking again.

Kate comes to a stop and looks at Harvey.

Harvey looks up at a grey municipal building.

Harvey shrugs.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Maggie, very tentatively, lifts her curtain again. No sign of

the `Killer'. Suddenly the doorbell rings.

INT. HALLWAY - LATE AFTERNOON

As Maggie, slowly approaches the front door, the doorbell

rings again. She slowly leans in and peers through the peep-

hole. POV: The Neighbour looms large. He holds in his arms a

large `something' wrapped in paper.

Maggie pulls her head away. Beat. She looks again. POV: The

Neighbour bends down out of sight and then rises again,

turning to leave. Maggie watches him go.

EXT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

The door slowly opens. Maggie looks around then notices the

`thing' wrapped in paper on the ground. She quickly picks it

up and takes it inside.

EXT. SOUTH BANK - LATE AFTERNOON

As daylight fades, Harvey sits waiting. Through a large

ground floor window, he watches Kate, as her class wraps up.

As she comes out, he gets up and joins her.

Harvey smiles.

EXT. SOUTH BANK - LATE AFTERNOON

Harvey and Kate walk under Waterloo bridge past the second

hand bookstalls. A man plays a saxophone melancholically.

Harvey smiles.

Beat.

Kate smiles, coming to a stop.

Just then a sort of Skiffle come Rockabilly busking act

starts up. Two girls and a guy. They're great! Harvey and

Kate stand amongst the crowd watching. The South Bank is at

its vibrant best.

EXT. SOUTH BANK - DUSK

With the sound of the Skiffle act still playing in the

distant background, Harvey and Kate take a seat on some steps

over-looking the river. As darkness descends, street-lamps

reflect off the water. They sit in silence. Then...

Beat. Harvey shakes his head.

Beat.

Beat. Harvey looks out over the Thames.

Kate looks at Harvey's sad profile. Beat. She thinks for a

moment.

Harvey looks up.

Kate looks at Harvey.

Harvey shakes his head.

Harvey shakes his head again. Kate is not about to give up.

Beat.

Kate momentarily blushes, then shakes her head.

EXT. BURLINGTON ARCADE - NIGHT

Music/Montage: The song is the same as that played by the

buskers. It's a fast, fun Rockabilly Skiffle thingy. We watch

as Harvey and Kate buy a dress. (Handheld/Double speed).

EXT. GROVESNOR - NIGHT

A Taxi pulls up and out step Harvey and Kate. Kate looks

fantastic on Harvey's arm as they walk up the front steps.

INT. WEDDING RECEPTION - NIGHT

A reception is in full swing.

INT. LOBBY - NIGHT

The doors close behind Harvey and Kate as they enter an

elevator.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Harvey and Kate stand side by side in silence. They both

smile a little anxiously - almost like teenagers.

INT. RECEPTION FLOOR / HALLWAY - NIGHT

There is a loud `ping' as the   elevator doors open onto a

hallway. Harvey and Kate step   forward. Down the hall, through

some double doors we hear the   familiar din of a buzzing

reception. Harvey momentarily   falters.

Kate encourages Harvey forward.

INT. RECEPTION - NIGHT

The doors open and Harvey and Kate enter. Heads turn. Jean

looks up and sees Harvey with Kate. She shakes her head.

Susan sees Harvey and gets up. She joins him.

Off Susan's look, Harvey turns to Kate.

Slightly awkward pause.

Susan looks back at the full top table.

Pete, acting as Master of Ceremonies, stands and clinks his

glass for attention.

Susan heads back and resumes her seat at top table. The best

man takes the mic...

INT. RECEPTION / BACK TABLES

The waiter leads Harvey and Kate to a table.

The waiter shows them to a few empty seats at the children's

table.

Harvey and Kate take their seats. The kids stare at them.

A brace clad, large girl in a white frilly dress speaks.

Kate feels someone's eyes on her and turns to her left to

find a smartly dressed young boy of about eight, staring up

at her with his mouth open. Kate nods her head.

The boy remains silent, keeping his gormless gaze fixed on

Kate.

Harvey smiles.

INT. RECEPTION / TOP TABLE - NIGHT

The audience whoop and clap. Scott gives his best man a hug.

Pete stands...

More clapping as Brian stands. Kate glances at Harvey, who

blushes.

Harvey suddenly stands and clears his throat.

Nobody really hears. He picks up his glass and a spoon and

begins to tap it. People stir and turn to Harvey. Brian comes

to a stop. Jean looks on furious. Silence.

Everyone stares at Harvey. Silence.

A waiter brings Harvey a microphone.

It's arrival slightly throws him.

Harvey continually knocks the mic against his chest, causing

terrible feedback.

Then Harvey drops the mic. Jean stands up.

Silence. Harvey stares out at the party. They all stare back

at him. He glances down at Kate who smiles back. Harvey lifts

the microphone up off the table and raises it to his lips.

People start to clap.

Laughter.

Harvey and Scott share a look. The room applauds loudly.

Beat. Brian nods to Harvey, before standing and raising his

glass.

Everyone claps loudly. Susan shares a gentle smile with her

Father. Harvey sits and looks at Kate anxiously. Kate smiles

and nods.

She indicates to the rest of the table. Harvey turns to their

now animated young neighbours, who all sit clapping.

INT. RECEPTION / BANDSTAND - NIGHT

The BAND strike up as Susan and Scott take to the dance

floor. They dance a slow dance. Harvey and Kate sit watching.

After a while Susan, looks over for her Father. Harvey

hesitates, before Kate encourages him up. She plucks a flower

from the table display and places it in his lapel.

Harvey joins Susan and Scott on the dance-floor. Shaking

Scott's hand, he leads Susan into a dance.

Beat.

Kate looks on, as Harvey dances happily with his daughter.

Feeling something, she turns to find the eight year old's

head slumped against her shoulder as he sleeps soundly. Kate

smiles at her lot.

Back on the dance-floor, Harvey encourages Brian to take over

the dance with Susan. Harvey turns away and is joined by

Uncle Fred and gang. They all chat animatedly. Uncle Fred

pushes Harvey into a dance with his wife. A `Boogie' strikes

up.

Kate looks on as Harvey dances and reunites with his extended

family. She sees the delight in his face. She looks around at

all the happy faces. It's time perhaps to let the family

celebrate alone.

Extricating herself from the sleeping boy, she pushes two

chairs together and makes a bed for him. Covering him in a

jacket, she glances back at the dance-floor before turning to

leave.

Back on the dance-floor, a `Boogie' is in full swing. Harvey

caught up in the fun, energetically swings Aunt Maddie

around. He suddenly catches himself and turns to his table to

look for Kate, but finds it empty save for a row of dozing

children.

Harvey makes his excuses and turns away, looking for Kate

amongst the crowded room.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Kate retrieves her coat and makes her way down the hall

towards the bank of elevators.

INT. RECEPTION - NIGHT

Harvey hurries to the exit.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

On turning into the hall, he sees Kate standing in the

distance. Just then, she steps forward and out of sight.

Harvey runs.

INT. ELEVATOR / CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

Kate stands in the empty elevator, waiting for the doors to

close. She stares at her feet. Just then we hear a burst of a

piano being played. It stops. Kate looks up to see, across

the hallway, in an empty conference room, Harvey seated at a

grand piano. He smiles a showman's smile before giving it

another `old school' burst.

He stops again. Kate smiles. Just then the doors begin to

close. Kate reaches forward and presses a button - opening

them.

Harvey starts up again - but this time he plays something

sincere - beautiful. Kate listens before slowly stepping out

of the elevator. She walks towards him, joining him at the

piano.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

Harvey slides along the seat and indicates for Kate to join

him. She does so and listens as Harvey plays beautifully.

He's good.

He finally brings the piece to an end.

Harvey blushes.

Harvey smiles at Kate.

They share a little smile. Beat.

Beat.

Harvey looks quizzically at Kate. Beat.

Kate smiles.

Beat.

Beat.

They share a look, before both looking away. Beat.

Just then a vacuum cleaner sounds. They both look up - as a

cleaning lady vacuums the floor nearby. Beat.

Kate smiles.

In the background we hear clapping and cheering coming from

the reception. A funky number starts up. Harvey takes Kate's

hand.

Harvey leads a slightly reluctant Kate back down the hall

towards the reception.

INT. RECEPTION - NIGHT

The band let rip on a funky tune. The congregation fill the

dance-floor.

Harvey leads Kate back into the room and heads straight for

the dance-floor. As they pass relatives along the way, Harvey

introduces them to Kate. Much hugging and kissing ensues.

Harvey and Kate dance a boogie. Uncle Fred and Aunt Maddie

join them. Uncle Fred steals Kate from Harvey and twirls her

off.

MONTAGE: Fun and Frolics on the dance-floor. Harvey is at the

center of it all. He initiates a Horah. A Congo line. Russian

dancing! Kate's face says it all - she's having a ball. The

sleeping kid, sleeps.

INT. RECEPTION / BANDSTAND - NIGHT

Close up on the M.C.

EXT. HOTEL STEPS - NIGHT

Harvey and Kate join the rest of the congregation outside on

the steps of the hotel. Harvey looks on as his daughter and

son-in-law head to an awaiting car. Susan stops and throws

the bouquet behind her. It is caught by Aunt Maddie, who in

turn throws it and it is caught by Harvey's `all grown up'

niece. She blushes profusely revealing an impressive set of

braces on her teenage teeth.

Susan kisses her mother and Brian goodbye. And is about to

get into the car when she stops and hurries over to Harvey.

She hugs him tightly. Pulling away she turns to Kate.

Kate nods as Susan turns to leave.

Kate smiles. As the car pulls away, everyone   cheers. Harvey

looks on. His eyes momentarily lock onto his   ex-wife's. They

share a conciliatory look. As Harvey watches   his daughter's

car disappear down the street, Kate looks at   him. He turns

back. Beat.

Beat. Harvey looks around.

EXT. MEWS STREET - NIGHT/DAWN

Harvey and Kate walk. The streets are quiet. There is already

a hint of dawn in the sky. Rubbish trucks manoeuvre.

EXT. SOMMERSET HOUSE - DAWN

They turn into the courtyard of Sommerset House and take a

seat on some chairs. The sky lightens.

They stare out over the courtyard. Silence. Harvey looks at

Kate for a beat.

Kate looks back at Harvey and tries to read him. She looks

down at her lap, then up, out over the courtyard.

The sun begins to creep above the buildings. Harvey and Kate

look out across the courtyard.

Beat.

Harvey looks at Kate in the morning light. Kate blushes and

looks away.

Harvey looks away, then back.

Kate smiles, determinedly trying to keep it light.

Kate's blush deepens, she looks away and laughs.

Kate glances at Harvey, trying see the truth in his eyes.

Kate can't help but smile. Beat. She glances towards the

street.

Kate looks at Harvey, then again towards the street.

Kate smiles a little smile. She suddenly believes him.

She steps backwards.

Harvey gets up and joins her. They look at each other. Harvey

suddenly leans in and kisses Kate.

Kate smiles.

Kate reaches for her purse and pulls out a photo. She gives

it to Harvey.

She turns and leaves, hurrying to catch a bus.

Harvey stands holding an old library card. He looks down. On

it is a faded photo of toothy young girl, no older than

eleven. Harvey looks up and smiles.

INT. BUS - EARLY MORNING

Kate takes a seat on the top deck of a bus. Taking a moment

to catch her breath, she looks out the window. Turning back,

she allows herself a smile...

EXT. LONDON STREET - EARLY MORNING

Harvey, with a croissant lodged in his mouth and a cup of

coffee in hand, buys a morning paper. He turns and crosses

the road, skipping up the steps of his hotel.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - EARLY MORNING

Harvey enters, and waving to a slightly bemused concierge,

heads to the bank of elevators.

Harvey glances at the sign, then over to the stairwell.

INT. STAIRWELL - MORNING

Harvey, a man, seemingly impatient to start a `new life',

runs up the steps. Surprised at first by his agility, he

begins to slow. He stops to catch his breath. Suddenly his

spare hand holds tight onto the bannister. Unsteady Harvey

sits down. Close up on Harvey's face, confused. He tries to

stand but again is forced back down. He begins to place his

coffee on the stair next to him, but suddenly shudders,

grabbing his shoulder. The coffee topples, spilling down the

steps.

Frightened and confused, Harvey sits alone in the stairwell.

Just then, a door opens and the African porter from before,

comes through, carrying a tray. He sees Harvey.

Harvey looks up in a daze, then shakes his head.

EXT. LONDON STREET - MORNING

Kate, with a skip in her step, walks through the bustling mid-

day streets of London. She stops off and buys a bag of

cherries from a `Fruit & Veg' vendor.

EXT. HOTEL - MORNING

As the porter and concierge talk to a medic, Harvey sits in

the back of an ambulance. The door is closed.

EXT. SOMMERSET HOUSE - DAY

Kate sits waiting, expectantly, on the same chairs they had

sat on earlier. She applies some lipstick.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Harvey sits attached to various monitors and such, surrounded

by doctors and nurses. He looks agitated and confused.

EXT. SOMMERSET HOUSE - DAY

As time passes, we watch as Kate's expression slowly turns

from expectant to resigned.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

As another pad is attached to his chest, Harvey looks beaten.

EXT. SOMMERSET HOUSE - DAY

Kate looks on as some kids play in the fountain nearby. She

self-consciously smooths a fold in her skirt, then looks at

her watch. Beat. She looks down at the brown paper bag of

cherries. Suddenly a resigned smile flashes across her face -

she's been here before  nothing new.

Kate gets up and leaves. We watch her walk away.

Sound of a vacuum cleaner.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Open on a close up of Kate's face - it says it all. Kate

vacuums her mother's floor. She turns it off and unplugs it.

Coiling up the cord, Kate puts the vacuum cleaner into a

cupboard under the stairs.

Maggie comes out of the kitchen.

Kate smiles.

Resigned, Kate hugs her mum.

Kate leaves.

EXT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - DAY

Kate exits her mother's house and passes Paddy the Postman.

Kate walks off down the street.

INT. HOSPITAL / RECEPTION AREA - DAY

Harvey stands at a counter in a busy reception area. He has

his phone lodged in the crook of his neck. In front of him,

lies an open phone directory.

The receptionist obliges as Harvey scribbles down a number on

an old envelope.

INT. HEATHROW / O.N.S. BOOTH - DAY

A phone rings behind the counter. Oonagh picks up.

Kate, stands nearby, holding a clipboard, about to head out

onto the floor. She looks at Oonagh. She thinks for a beat,

then shakes her head, silently gesturing she not there.

Oonagh, a little perplexed goes back on the phone.

INT. HOSPITAL / RECEPTION AREA - DAY

Harvey, phone to ear, thinks for a beat. He knows she's

there.

Beat.

INT. BOOTH - DAY

Oonagh pulls the phone away and gestures again to Kate. Kate

shakes her head. Beat. Oonagh reluctantly lifts the phone to

her ear.

Oonagh hangs up, looking at Kate. Kate shrugs defensively

before turning to go. We hold on Kate's `confused' face as

she walks away.

INT. HOSPITAL / RECEPTION AREA - DAY

Harvey, having hung up, lowers the phone from his ear. He

looks around the room. Seated across the way an old man

stares back at him. A receptionist arrives with some forms.

Harvey signs a form.

Harvey glances at the receptionist - she is roughly Kate's

age. Just then his phone rings. He picks up hopefully.

Harvey looks around the room at the lonely figures, waiting.

A young boy fidgets. Next to him sits a young man, lost in

thought.

Harvey glances back at the old man. The old man continues to

stare back. Beat. Something changes in Harvey.

Harvey hangs up. A smile breaks across his face.

EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Harvey exits the Hospital.

A taxi pulls up.

Harvey gets in as the Taxi speeds away.

INT. HEATHROW / O.N.S. BOOTH - DAY

Aggie, manning the booth, attends to some passengers.

EXT. HEATHROW - DAY

A Taxi pulls up. Harvey hurries out.

INT. HEATHROW / O.N.S. BOOTH - DAY

Harvey approaches the booth.

Aggie eyes Harvey, a little warily.

Aggie tuts and calls behind her.

Oonagh comes out from the office, eyeing Harvey suspiciously.

Beat. Oonagh continues to eye Harvey. Finally...

Harvey turns and hurries away. Oonagh and Aggie share a

smile.

INT. WRITING CLASS - DAY

Kate sits listening in a daze, as `mild-mannered Mike'

unleashes his latest.

EXT. WATERLOO BRIDGE - DAY

Harvey alights from the Taxi, paying the driver. He runs.

INT. CLASS - DAY

Everyone gathers their things as the class wraps.

EXT. WATERLOO BRIDGE - DAY

Harvey hurries towards the Southbank.

EXT. SOUTHBANK - DAY

Kate comes down from the upper terrace of the National,

saying her good-byes to her classmates. In her hand she holds

a book. As she turns she sees Harvey coming to a stop in the

distance. She momentarily falters before approaching.

Kate can't help but smile. Beat.

Beat. Kate takes a breath, and gives him the practical

response she's gone over in her head.

Beat.

A button is pushed in Kate.

Kate turns and walks away, standing by the balustrade,

looking down at the river below. Harvey watches. She takes a

seat on a bench. Harvey gives her, her space. Then slowly he

approaches, leaning against a tree nearby. Long beat.

Long beat. Just then Kate's phone rings. She reaches into her

bag and takes it out. She stares at the phone, thinking for a

beat, before answering.

She hangs up. Long beat.

Kate can't help but smile.

Beat. Kate collecting herself, looks up at Harvey.

Beat.

Kate stares at Harvey for the longest while. Then...

Beat. Harvey nods.

Kate gathers up her things, stands and joins Harvey. They

begin to walk.

After a short while Kate stops, puts her hand on Harvey's

shoulder and takes off her shoes.

Harvey glances down at Kate's feet, then up at her.

Harvey and Kate smile. And as they walk away from us we hear.

Beat.

We watch as Harvey and Kate disappear into the sea of

London...

