TITLE ON BLACK; '10 P.M. - LOS ANGELES'

DISSOLVE TO:

1 INT. SMART BAR IN BEVERLY HILLS - NIGHT

It is the kind of bar where the well-to-do folks of LA go

to pick up - or be picked up. Lesser-known actors, agents

and executives of all ages.

Into this bar comes Ben.

Ben is in his thirties. He is wearing an Armani suit

that could use a visit to the dry-cleaner's. He hasn't

shaved in the last twenty-four hours (but neither has

any of the actors in the bar). He is a good-looking man

but is clearly in trouble of some kind. Although still

in control of his faculties, it becomes clear in the

following scene that he is much the worse for wear with

drink. He looks around the room until he sees someone he

recognizes and then walks over to a table where two couples

are seated. The men are young execs, the girls, both blonde

and busty, have very white teeth and smile all of the time.

The camera follows Ben over to the table. One of the execs

looks up as Ben gets close. He recognizes him but delays

his recognition until the last moment in the hope that Ben

is not looking at him.

They shake hands. Ben is not invited to take a seat and

Peter waits for a while before being forced to introduce him

to the table.

Ben Sanderson, Marc Nussbaum, Sheila, Debbie.

There is an awkward silence. Ben does not make a move and

is not invited to join them. The girls smile.

Peter gets up and he and Ben walk to the door together.

Peter speaks very quietly.

The two men look at each other for a while. Peter's

friends are looking at them, as are other people in

the room. Peter takes out his wallet and extracts some

notes.

And he turns and walks away, back to his table.

CUT TO BLACK:

TITLE ON BLACK; 'LAS VEGAS - 1.20 A.M.'

FADE UP ON:

2 EXT. HELICOPTER SHOT - DAY

Las Vegas. A blaze of color in the middle of a desert.

Credit sequence begins.

CUT TO:

3 INT. LOBBY OF EXPENSIVE HOTEL - NIGHT

A mixture of businessmen and gamblers creates a sense

of activity and superficial excitement. Music wafts

across the soundtrack, almost drowned by the dense

texture of thousands of slot machines, creating an

insane New Age symphony.

Credit sequence ends.

Into the lobby from the street comes Sera.

It's hard to tell how old Sera is - somewhere between

twenty-five and thirty-five. She is a beautiful American

girl. Her face has the freshness of a model in a Sears

catalogue. She is dressed simply in a short black skirt

and matching jacket. High heels complete the picture.

Heads turn as she passes a group of businessmen and it's

clear they find her very sexy. She acknowledges their

glance with a half-smile and steps into the elevator.

She could be a secretary, or a PA to one of the many

execs here in Las Vegas at a convention. The body language

is a bit different, though.

4 INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE OF HOTEL - NIGHT

A view of night-time Las Vegas through a window. Traffic up

and down The Strip; bright, gaudy neon flashing and winking.

We hear the sound of men laughing and the camera pulls

focus and we see reflected in the glass...

...a group of people.

On the table are bowls of potato chips and dip and

sandwiches. The TV is on at a sports channel and two

boxers pound the shit out of each other.

CUT TO:

5 INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Sera looks at herself in the gold-tinted mirror in

the elevator. She takes out a lipstick and freshens

her lips. Some people get out and the elevator climbs

higher. We see from the indicator that she has punched

the Penthouse button. Camera moves in tighter and we

see that she is nervous but concealing it well. The

elevator stops, the doors open and she steps right

into the Penthouse.

6 INT. PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

A bottle of Scotch is almost empty. The man talking is Yuri.

He is Russian, in his early forties, a little overweight,

a big man wearing a blue silk suit. His thick black hair

is greased and combed back. He wears a lot of jewelry,

all gold. Rings, a bracelet and a Rolex. Two men in

business suits and a weird stoned woman in her late

thirties listen to him.

The three people laugh. There is a hint of contempt in

the way that they speak to Yuri.

Yuri smiles at them.

The door opens and Sera comes in. Everybody stares at her.

The second businessman takes out a small manila envelope from

his inside pocket.

Yuri smiles again as the Second Businessman hands him the

envelope. The rest of them just stare at Sera, aroused by the

idea of her.

Yuri gets up.

He heads for the door, passing Sera. She holds out his arm as

he passes.

Still smiling, he takes Sera's arm and leads her into the

bedroom.

7 INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mirrors reflect mirrors.

He holds put his arms. Sera goes to him. He hugs her with one

arm. He pulls up her skirt so that her panties are exposed.

Sera watches in the mirror as he pulls her panties to reveal

her buttocks. He strokes her there gently with his other

hand. We see that there are two fine scars there. He speaks

gently, like a father to a daughter.

CUT TO:

FLASHBACK-SILENT-GRAINY BLACK AND WHITE

8 INT. ROOM - NIGHT

Yuri and Sera - different time, different place. Sera looking

frightened, backing away from Yuri, who pulls a switchblade

from his jacket and opens it.

CUT BACK TO:

9 INT. PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

Yuri enters from the bedroom. The weird woman is doing a line

of coke.

ANGLE ON BEDROOM DOOR

Sera comes into the room. She smiles and begins unbuttoning

her jacket.

She takes it off and drops it on the floor, and then unzips

her skirt and steps out of it. Sera is now in control and

playing the room. In the background. Yuri leaves the room.

Sera walks over and something strange takes place between

them.

CUT TO:

10 INT. BEN'S BAR. LA - MORNING

The bar is dark but through a small window we see that it is

a very bright sunny day outside. The bartender reads the Los

Angeles Times. The bar surface is red vinyl. There are five

customers, all single men. One of them is Ben and he is

sitting at the bar watching TV. A game show is in progress

and the TV sound is loud. Ben finishes his drink and grimaces

before indicating to the barman that he'd like a repeat.

Barman pours him a whiskey - Cranberry - and the camera moves

in closer to Ben, ending in a close-up. Ben takes a big hit

from the drink and concentrates on the TV. We hear from the

TV sound that it is a word game with a big prize. Ben smiles

to himself.

BEN'S POV OF TV

The talk show hostess, an American TV beauty, is showing the

audience the prizes available in today's game show.

ANGLE ON BEN

As he finishes that drink and asks for another. The camera

moves in close on his eyes.

BEN'S POV OF TV

She turns from the prizes and looks straight into the TV

camera, which starts zooming into her. At first, what she is

saying makes complete sense, but then things change...

"There are oohs" from the audience.

The studio lights dim.

Close-up on males in the audience doing the grunt.

She unbuttons her top, licks her fingers and makes her

nipples hard.

Section of the audience clapping - some women dabbing their

eyes.

ANGLE ON BEN

Lost in his fantasy

He looks back at the screen, but the show has returned to

what is known as "normal". He finishes his drink and then an

attack of nausea hit him. He takes a deep breath and rolls

his neck and his head. The barman puts down a fresh drink.

Ben looks at his own hands...which are steady.

CUT TO:

11 INT. SMART BUSINESS SPACE - MORNING

Ben sitting at a desk with a phone wedged on his ear, a cup

of black coffee on the desk. The walls are covered with

with scripts. He nods from time to time and sometimes says

'yes' or 'OK', but it becomes clear that there is no one on

the other end. He drinks from the coffee cup. A woman comes

up to his desk, a business colleague. She puts a wad of

messages down on the desk.

Ben gets up and as he passes her he grabs her and dances a

few steps. It is clear that she likes Ben, but when his face

gets close to hers she smells the alcohol on his breath and

she turns away. Ben stops dancing and smiles sadly.

She leaves the room and Ben goes through some routine at the

desk. He opens a drawer of a filing cabinet and puts in his

whole arm, looking for something at the very back. He pulls

out a small vodka bottle and opens it and then pours the

room.

CUT TO:

12 INT. SMART OFFICE - DAY

Ben is sitting opposite his boss, Mr. Simpson, who is very

upset. He hands Ben an envelope. Ben opens it and pulls out a

check. He looks at the amount.

Ben takes a swig from his coffee cup.

Simpson looks puzzled.

CUT TO:

13 INT. BEN'S BMW  DAY

Ben drives though Beverly Hills. He pours the content of a

small bottle of vodka into an empty Coke can, puts the empty

bottle under the seat and then drinks from the can.

He slips a tape into the player and we hear "Lonely

Teardrops", by Michael McDonald, one of Ben's favorite songs.

At a traffic light a cop on a bike pulls up next to him and

Ben takes a pull from the Coke can and smiles, mouths the

word "hot". The cop nods back at him, the light changes and

they both pull away.

CUT TO:

14 EXT. SANTA MONICA STREET  DAY

Ben carries a brown paper bag which clinks. Camera follows

him as he walks down the street. He looks at...

BEN'S POV

A girl walking ahead of him in the same direction. She is

walking her dog. She is attractive from behind. We hear Ben's

thoughts.

The dog gets interested in something on the sidewalk and she

bends down to pull at its collar.

Suddenly the girl stops. Ben catches up with her and cannot

resist looking into her face.

The girl sees Ben and smiles an innocent smile,

CUT TO:

15 EXT. BEN'S HOUSE IN SANT MONICA - DAY

Ben walks up to his house still carrying the paper bag. A

young boy of about thirteen years of age is fixing a beat-up

bike. Ben greets him.

Ben takes a look. The gear mechanism is all bent out of

shape. He bends down to have a look. It is clear from the way

he deals with this mechanical problem that he's good with his

hands. He doesn't try to force anything but he moves the

chain and gear mechanism to get to the problem.

Ben gets up, picks up his bottles and heads for his house. He

looks back and Brad is sitting still by the bike, looking

totally dejected. This really seems to upset Ben.

CUT TO:

16 INT. BEN'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Ben is naked and the shower can be heard in the background.

The house is austere, only the minimum of furnishing. He

pours a large tumbler of vodka and takes a gulp, then tops up

the glass. He turns on the stereo, selects a record - Miles

Davis, Kind of Blue - and puts it on the turntable. He turns

on the cassette recorder and inserts a new blank tape. He

puts the machine into the record mode. He kneels down next to

the deck and with complete precision puts the needle on the

second track without any problem. The music starts and

continues through the next sequence.

17 INT. SHOVER - DAY

Ben is in the shower with the glass in his hand.

18 INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Ben shaving with the glass in his hand. He does the area

around his mouth first so that he can drink while he does the

rest.

19 INT. LIVING SPACE - DAY

Showered and shaved and wearing a smart dark suit, Ben looks

handsome and normal. He selects another record and again sets

up the cassette machine to record. He turns the stereo up

full and dances by himself while watching MTV silent. He

tries a turn which is a bit ambitious and loses hi balance.

In slow motion we see him fall. Ben lies still on the floor.

He smiles to himself and decides top stay there for a

while...

FADE OUT:

FADE IN:

20 INT. SERA'S BEDROOM. LAS VEGAS - DAY

Sera wakes up in bed next to Yuri. (The camera is high above

the bed looking down.) She is completely drenched in sweat. A

thin shaft o light comes from the crack in the drapes and

darkness. To get out of bed she would have to climb over him.

She lies still. Yuri speaks without opening his eyes...

Sera blinks and turns her head towards him.

He puts his hand between her legs, over the sheets and grasps

her there.

He climbs on to her and mounts her. Familiarity.

He begins thrusting into her.

Camera move slowly into a tight portrait of Sear.

CUT TO:

21 INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Sera is sitting on a sofa talking to an unseen person.

the sense of it is that we are in present, i.e. all the

events in the film are in the past tense.)

22 INT. SERA'S KITCHEN. LATER THAT DAY

Yuri is tucking into a hearty breakfast. Sera plays with her

food.

He suddenly looks up from his food and smiles at her.

Sera says nothing.

Sera nervously plays with her food.

Sera forces a smile.

QUICK CUT TO:

FLASHBACK:

23 INT. ROOM - NIGHT

Grainy black-and-white image. Sera on a bed, pinned down by

Yuri, who has a knife.

CUT BACK TO:

24 INT. SERA'S HOUSE - DAY

He drops his fork.

The mood has changed and Sera does her best to move out of

these dangerous waters.

Yuri nods. Sera rises goes to a kitchen drawers and finds

money.

Yuri is very angry and as Sera hands him the money, he hits

her, hard, knocking her back into the refrigerator. His ring

cuts her cheek.

And then his anger goes and he becomes quite tender with her.

He takes her face in his hands to look at the cut.

He sits down with shaking hands. He suddenly seems more

vulnerable than she is. He goes to the window and looks out,

left and then right, as if he expects to see something.

FADE OUT:

FADE IN SLOWLY - SOUND FIRST:

25 INT. BEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Ben opens his eyes. The only light comes from the TV. The

miles Davis record has got caught on a scratch and is

repeating the sane phrase over and over again. He looks at

his gold Rolex and then fingers the wedding band on his

finger.

CUT TO:

26 INT. BEN'S BAR. LA - NIGHT

Ben is sitting at the bar. He drinks a large glass of

something very quickly and then immediately orders another.

He drinks this a little slower but still too quick, finishes

it and then orders another. He looks around the bar and sees

a woman sitting by herself, thirtyish, pretty and receptive.

She looks and sees Ben, and he smiles at her. She smiles

right back. Ben talks across the bar.

Ben walks over to where she is. She is pleased that this

good-looking man has come over to make a play. She makes a

noise with her straw to indicate that her glass is empty.

She watches him walk to the bar. He gets the drink and walks

back to her. He sets the drinks down on the table and sits

down. As he does so, his face gets close to hers and she

smells the booze on him.

She looks at him, a disappointed expression on her face. She

is no longer interested in being seduced by this man and this

much is clear to Ben.

She doesn't respond.

Ben winces at his own words. He shakes his head.

They drink in silence for a while. Ben takes a deep breath.0

He stops and frowns as he stares into his empty glass.

Ben tries to stand and has to pull himself up by holding the

bar. It's a strange thing with drunks like Ben... when they're

up they have balance and timing, but when they're down it all

falls apart. She starts to speak but then doesn't. A look of

great sadness comes over her.

She stands to go.

She walks to the door and Ben turns to the bar, watched by he

Barman, who is a little concerned.

Ben gets out his wallet but his hands are shaking so much

that he cannot extract any bills. He is very embarrassed and

tries again, but to no avail.

The barman shakes his head in disgust as he goes into the

wallet and takes some money.

CUT TO:

27 EXT. LA STREETS - NIGHT

Ben is cruising in his car, listening to music on his stereo.

CUT TO:

28 INT. STRIP CLUB - NIGHT

Ben comes into the club and sits down next to the stage,

where a dancer is doing her thing accompanied by a live blue

trio. A swimsuited waitress comes to the table.

WAITRESS

There's a one-drink minimum per show, I hope you saw the sign

when you came in. Anyway, they're supposed to tell you.

She writes down W.A.T.E.R. and walks away. Ben calls her

back.

ANGLE ON THE STAGE

A tough black girl dances in a world of her own, impervious

to the men who stare at her. The trio grinds out a dirty

blues. A man opposite Ben places a dollar bill on the stage

and as the dancer squats down to pick it up he stares between

her legs an winks. The Waitress puts down a styrofoam cup and

a bottle of water in front of Ben but refuses to look at him.

Ben puts down a hundred on to her tray.

This throws the Waitress for a loop.

CUT TO:

29 INT. BATHROOM OF STRIP CLUB - NIGHT

Ben drinks all of a fifth of bourbon. Other guys come and go,

pissing against the urinal. Ben offers one of the guys a

drink, the pianist from the trio. He takes a shot.

CUT TO:

30 INT. STRIP CLUB - NIGHT

Ben sits next to another man watching the show. On stage a

tall blonde dances with her own reflection in a mirror. Ben

turns to his neighbor.

30A EXT. LA STREETS - NIGHT

Ben drives in his car.

CUT TO:

31 EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD - LATER THAT NIGHT

Ben is cruising in his car, listening to 'Lonely Teardrops'

again. He's looking for a prostitute. He sees a girl, but

when he slows down she ducks into a doorway.

He looks in his rear-view mirror and sees a cop car coming up

fast. Ben panics for a second. There is a bottle between his

legs. The cop car draws level and cruises alongside him for a

while, but then puts its lights and siren on and speeds off,

doing a U-turn.

Ben continues and then sees an Hispanic girl and stops. He

winds down the window. He is by now almost incoherent.

32 EXT. KERBSIDE - NIGHT

The girl looks up and down the street and then walks over to

the car and bends down to the window.

The girl's eyes shift constantly from Ben to the street and

then back again.

Ben shows her the money.

Ben laughs.

He gives her a twenty and indicates a motel across the

street. She sets off and he gets out of the car. As he does,

a wave of nausea hits him. He shakes his head violently and

then lurches across the street, causing two cars to hit their

brakes. The camera follows him into the dark parking lot of

the motel, where the Hispanic girl is waiting.

The girl laughs at Ben and says something in Spanish.

Slowly the picture gets darker, until all that can be seen is

the headlights from the passing cars on Sunset... and then...

33 INT. BEN'S HOUSE - DAWN

Ben wakes up on the kitchen floor. The fridge door is open

and its light is what lights Ben. Inside the fridge are one

green pepper and four bottles of vodka. Without too much

effort Ben feels for his wallet and sees that it is still

there, as are his car keys. He closes the fridge door and in

the green light from the window he lies still. The first

birds start singing. (the birdsong continues through the

following sequence, which does not have sync sound.)

CUT TO:

FLASHBACK

34 EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD MOTEL. PARKING-LOT DUMPSTERS - NIGHT

At the rear of the motel. Next to some garbage hoppers, the

Hispanic girl hugging him and kissing his neck. He tries to

kiss her on the mouth, but she turns her face away.

CUT TO:

35 INT. BEN'S HOUSE - DAWN

Ben lying on the floor, thinking.

CUT TO:

FLASHBACK

36 EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD MOTEL. PARKING-LOT DUMPSTERS - NIGHT

The Hispanic girl kneeling in front of him, unzipping his

trousers. Through a gap in the fence, we see traffic going up

and down Sunset.

CUT TO:

37 INT. BEN'S HOUSE - DAWN

Ben lying on the floor, thinking...

CUT TO:

FLASHBACK

38 EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD MOTEL. PARKING-LOT DUMPSTERS - NIGHT

The girl takes his hand and kisses it. She begins sucking the

fingers, taking the whole hand into her mouth.

CUT TO:

39 INT. BEN'S HOUSE - DAWN

Ben suddenly sits up and looks at his hand. His wedding ring

has gone. He thinks about this for a long time.

CUT TO:

40 INT. BANK - MORNING

Ben waiting in line to cash a check. He looks unwell and is

having difficulty standing straight. At last it is his turn.

He goes to the counter and hands over a check to the girl.

She looks at her computer read-out.

Ben picks up a pen and tries to sign, but his hands are

shaking so much that he cannot do it.

CUT TO:

41 INT. BEN'S BAR. LA. - MORNING

Ben seated at the bar, a pile of bills in front of him. The

Barman sets down a vodka, picks up the empty glass and takes

some bills, shaking his head in disapproval. The TV is on,

some game show as before, and Ben watches carefully, looking

for a sign from the girl, but the show proceeds in its

'normal' fashion. The only difference is that the hostess is

played by the girl in the bank. Ben grabs the Barman's

attention.

The Barman loses it

Ben is taken aback by the emotion in his voice. In his mind,

cynicism and the desire to cry fight it out. He holds the

emotion back, and looks down at the bar.

He picks up a bottle of gin, fills a glass, slams it on the

counter in front of Ben and knocks twice with his knuckles on

the bar.

On the house, son.

Ben looks at the TV for a sign. None is forthcoming.

CUT TO:

42 INT. BANK - DAY

Ben waiting in line again. The same Bank girl is there and

she is dealing with her customers in the same inanely

cheerful way that the game-show Hostess dealt with her prize-

winners. She notices Ben waiting and an irritated look

flashes over across her face. Ben studies her. She is pretty

in an ordinary kind of way. We hear Ben's thoughts as voice-

over (or maybe he says them out loud to himself).

Close-up on the Bank Girl as she does her thing, efficiently

counting money, smiling, perfect teeth framed by a Cupid

mouth. She is wearing a white blouse through which frilly

lingerie can just be made out.

Camera moves in tighter on her face as she chats with a

customer about the weather.

Ben takes a moment to come out of his reverie. He smiles and

comes to the counter, completely in control of himself.

He flips the check over, makes sure she is watching and signs

with a flourish.

She counts the money out and glares at him as she hands it

over.

Ben looks at her and smiles.

CUT TO:

43 INT. SUPERMARKET - DAY

Ben throws items into a trolley. Garbage bags, firelighters

and charcoal lighter fluid.

CUT TO:

44 INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - DAY

Ben putting all the kitchen utensils into a large garbage

bag. Three other bags are already filled and the kitchen is

looking empty.

CUT TO:

45 INT. BEN'S BEDROOM - DAY

Ben is stuffing all the bedding into a garbage bag.  Next he

opens a drawer on the dresser and begins taking out clothes

and stuffing them into another bag. He pauses for a moment to

take a drink from a tall glass.

CUT TO:

46 INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

All the books from the bookcase go into another bag. Then all

the records. But he selects certain favorites and as this

sequence progresses we can see that Ben is making tapes of

these tracks. As soon as he is done with the recording, he

throws the album into a garbage bag.

CUT TO:

47 EXT. BEN'S YARD - NIGHT

Ben pours lighter fluid on to a pile of photographs and then

throws a match on to it. It bursts into flames. He throws

more stuff on and the fire blazes. A curious neighbor watches

from a safe distance, not wanting too get involved.

ANGLE ON THE FIRE

A watercolor, a poem to his wife, photograph of him and his

wife, a Polaroid of a naked woman, his medical records, his

birth and marriage certificates, divorce papers, strips of

photographs from booths, postcards from Hawaii. Two small

children (his?).

ANGLE ON BEN

Now the flames are high and Ben has to stand back as he

throws things on to the fire ... his camera, an engraved box,

his wife's 'left behind' clothing , a clock...

CUT TO:

48 EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - DAWN

Fifteen neatly tied garbage bags and Ben's furniture are

stacked up on the sidewalk. Ben comes out of his front door

carrying a racing bike. He walks to the neighbors' house and

places the bike on the porch. We see a label saying 'To Brad

from Ben'. He walks to his black car with a small suitcase,

gets in and drives off.

CUT TO:

49 EXT. DESERT LANDSCAPE WITH ROAD - DAY

A high wide shot shows a small black car making its way

across the frame.

DISSOLVE TO:

50 INT. CAR - DAY

Through the window we see a dead straight road stretching to

The sunlight is painfully bright. On the soundtrack we hear

one of Ben's chosen tapes, which continues through into the

next shot.

DISSOLVE TO:

51 EXT. GAS STATION IN THE DESERT - DAY

Ben is filling his car. A Town Car drives in and stops next to

the BMW. Three men get out. They look like Russian Mobsters.

Ben nods at them and they nod back.

CUT TO:

52 INT. CAR - NIGHT

Same angle through the window but this time we see Las Vegas

at night as Ben drives down the main drag. An overdose of

neon.

52A EXT. LAS VEGAS STRIP - NIGHT

Ahead we see the light changing, but Ben doesn't notice until

it's almost to late. The car stops and we see Sera crossing

in front of the car. She gives Ben a look of real attitude

because he is over the line and she has to change course to

cross in front.

CUT TO:

53 EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT - NIGHT

Sera is talking to Yuri. A middle-aged man gets out of a cab

and Yuri shakes him by the hand and introduces him to Sera.

He hands Yuri an envelope and then Sera and he go into the

hotel together. Yuri looks around thoughtfully before getting

into a cab and driving off.

54 INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Improvised scene.(1)

INT. MOTEL RECEPTION - NIGHT

Ben waits to check in while the manager explains the house

rules to a family of large people from the Midwest.

Above the manager's head is the name of the motel, The Whole

Year Inn. Ben stares at it and then smiles.

BEN'S POV

The sign has changed to The Hole You're In.

CUT TO:

56 INT. LIQUOR STORE - NIGHT

Ben has almost filled a trolley with bottles of various

brands. He is whistling and seems happy.

57 INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Improvised scene.(2)

CUT TO:

58 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT

Ben driving. He sees Sera and follows her, then drives up on

the sidewalk. She sees him.

And she walks a few steps to prove it, stopping on the

passenger side of his car. They pause for a moment and Ben is

confused. He is quite taken with her beauty, but this is not

going according to plan. He reaches into the car quickly and

picks an open can of bee, draining it before tossing the

empty back on to the rear seat.

Sera doesn't say anything.

He bites his lips as he waits for her to respond.

She makes no response.

Takes out his money.

She touches the door handle.

It takes a moment or two to register that she is saying yes.

He comes around the car to open the door for her.

They shake hands.

She gets in. Ben gets in.

CUT TO:

59 INT. CAR - NIGHT

Ben hands her the money.

They grin at each other.

They drive off.

60 EXT. MOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

They sit in the car for a while before speaking.

Ben switches off the engine but makes no move to get out of

the car.

He gets out and she waits for him to open the door. She gets

out and he offers her his arm. She takes it and they walk

into the motel.

CUT TO:

61 INT. BEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

As Ben closes the door. Sera surveys the room.

SERA'S POV

There are bottles everywhere. Ben has gone to a lot of troble

to lay them out in a pleasing way.

all business, in control, and Ben likes it.

She goes into the bathroom.

Ben smiles, happier than we've ever seen him. He gets her

order ready and then he takes a big swig from a bourbon

bottle. He sits on the edge of the bed.

The bathroom door opens and Sera comes in wearing a black bra

and panties. She's acting the hooker now, tough and sexy.

She walks to the table and downs her tequila in one. Then

comes to the bed, where Ben is sitting. She kneels, unzips

his fly and begins sucking him. Ben watches her, looks at her

reflection in the closet mirror, reaches for the bottle and

drinks some, being careful not to disturb Sera. After a while

Sera comes up.

She takes the bottle and drinks. She goes down again. Ben

stops her.

She looks at him, confused. She sees a strange look on his

face. It throws her.

This is a turning point. Both of them are momentarily

exposed.

Ben lifts the sheet and moves to one side, indicating that

she should come into the bed. She's as confused as he is. She

gets in with him and he hands her the bottle.

CUT TO:

62 INT. CASINO - NIGHT

Yuri is losing at one of the tables. He continues to bet

though, putting half of what he has left on one number. He

lose again. He mops his face with a red silk handkerchief and

places another bet.

63 INT. SOMEWHERE IN THE CASINO - NIGHT

The three Russian Mobsters we saw in the desert are walking

through the casino, looking for someone.

CUT TO:

64 INT. BEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

They are both in bed, drinking.

They both laugh and Ben hands her the bottle.

He looks at her, she at him, not sure whether to believe him

or not.

Ben looks at his watch.

Ben yawns, suddenly deeply tired.

CUT TO:

LATER.

SIDE ANGLE

Sera is in focus, Ben is asleep.

65 INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Improvised scene. (3)

CUT TO:

65A EXT. SERA'S APARTMENT COMPLEX - DAWN

Sera gets out of a cab and makes her way towards her

apartment, changing out of her high heels as she walks.

66 INT. SERA'S HOUSE - DAWN

Sera lets herself in. Yuri is standing in the shadows. She

gets a fright when she sees him.

Yuri holds out his hand for her bag. She gives it to him. He

finds the money and counts it.

Yuri slaps her.

Yuri talks in Russian, becoming angrier, and slaps her again.

He spits on the floor.

Sera falls against the kitchen table and picks up a lethal-

looking knife. Yuri stops.

She throws the knife to Yuri, who catches it. She bends over

the table and pulls up her skirt.

She mimics him.

A shower of Russian comes out of Yuri, but he doesn't touch

her. He tries to regain his dignity by putting on a coat.

He goes to the door.

And he exits. Sera is still on the table.

67 INT. PAWN SHOP - DAY

The proprietor is handling over some cash to Yuri, whose

jewelry is on the counter. He pockets it and as he turns to

leave, Ben comes in. They pass without taking much notice of

each other. Ben removes his Rolex and shows it to the man.

CUT TO:

68 EXT. STREET, LAS VEGAS - DAY

Yuri is walking in the hot sun, sweating. We see him through

long-lens heat haze. The camera wanders into the traffic and

we see the black Town Car crawling along behind him, three men

inside.

CUT TO:

69 INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Improvised scene. (4)

CUT TO:

70 INT. MAIN BAR, HOTEL - NIGHT

A lounge singer belts out a fair rendition of a Tony Orlando

number. Sera sits at the bar, an empty seat on either side of

her. She watches a younger hooker in the final moments of

pulling a dangerous-looking man. The girl is aware of Sera

without even looking at her. The guy she is with looks around

and sees Sera. The girl shoots an icy look. A man sits next

to Sera: a conventioneer.

They shake hands.

her dangerous guy. She pauses long enough to give Sera a

nasty smile. The conventioneer pays for the drink and is a

little lost for words. Sera tries to help.

She looks around.

He gets up.

He leaves. Sera is uncomfortable. People are watching her,

aware that something has been going on. The Barman comes over

to where Sera is sitting.

He walks away. Sera finishes her drink and leaves.

CUT TO:

71 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT

Sera at work is looking more carefully than usual, hoping to

see Ben. A huge silver limo pulls up and, after some

negotiation, she gets in.

CUT TO:

72 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT

Long-lens shot of Ben, very drunk on the street. He falls and

lies still for quite a long time before getting up. He falls

into the road and tries to hail a cab, but none stops. A cop

car cruises to a halt and Ben more or less imitates a normal

person as he walks out of shot.

73 EXT. THE POOL, MOTEL - DAY

Ben dives in and swims a length under water. He pulls himself

out and sits next to the large Midwestern family. The father

says hello and introduces his family to Ben. They are all

very friendly. It's a nice atmosphere around this pool and

for a moment Ben even looks healthy.

CUT TO:

74 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT

A limo pulls up and Sera gets out. She sees something.

SERA'S POV

Ben sitting at a bus stop, drinking out of a cocktail glass.

When he sees her he gets up, a little unsteadily.

He looks at her.

Sera looks up and down the strip.

Ben sits down, a little hurt.

He thinks.

And she hails a taxi, which stops immediately and she gets

in.

Ben watches the cab drive off.

CUT TO:

75 INT. CORRIDOR OF HOTEL - NIGHT

Sera walks along, checking numbers on the doors. She finds

the right one and knocks firmly.

The door opens a crack and Yuri peers out.

He looks around for a clock.

76 INT. YURI'S ROOM - NIGHT

Sera comes into the room, takes her purse out and counts out

seven hundred dollars.

Yuri sits on the bed. He looks unwell and disoriented. His

face is covered with a thin film of sweat. He seems to be

listening for something, because he stops her talking by

putting his fingers to his lips. He looks at her and then

bed, she begins unbuttoning her blouse. Yuri stops her with a

wave of his hand. Sera is puzzled and frightened now. Yuri

seems to be deranged.

Yuri suddenly hears something. He grabs Sera's hand and takes

her to the wall. He presses her head to the wall.

He looks at her.

He pulls himself together.

He indicates the wall.

They face each other for a moment and then Yuri does an

almost comic gesture to tell her to go. He hustles her to the

door and shoves her out as she is still buttoning up her

blouse. He slams the door.

Sera stands there for a while, almost in shock, and then she

down the endless corridor of doors. Ahead of her, three men

are walking towards her, checking the door numbers as they

make their way. Sera doesn't take them in. They pass and turn

a corner. We recognize them as the men from the black

Town Car.

ANGLE

The men have stopped outside Yuri's room. The camera pans and

we see Sera down the other corridor getting into the

elevator.

FADE OUT:

77 INT. BEN'S ROOM AT THE MOTEL - NIGHT

Ben is lying on the bed watching a game show, drinking.

A coughing fit hits him. He is very short of breath. We see

how ill he really is.

There is a tap at the door.

The tapping persists and eventually Ben gets off the bed and

unlocks it, but keeps the chain on. It is Sera.

Ben stares at her for a while.

Ben opens the door.

CUT TO:

78 INT. SERA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Sera is finishing in the shower and Ben is sitting at the

kitchen table. He gets up and walks around the house, trying

to get a sense of her. The furniture is very plain and there

is spartan quality about the hose. He looks with interest at

the bookshelf, which has a good selection of literature.

He pours himself another drink.

He sots down and she comes in, toweling her hair.

He holds up his empty wrist for her to see. Then looks up and

sees her watching him.

CUT TO:

79 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT

Ben and Sera walk and talk.

80 INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Ben and Sera are eating. He plays with his food, eating very

little of it. Finally he pushes it away and orders another

drink.

this.

And she leans across the table to be close to him, listening

intently. Ben becomes uncomfortable and tries to joke it off.

Sera continues to stare at him, wanting to know the real

answer. He takes a slug from his drink. She sits back.

Sera relaxes and continues with her food. We hear her

thoughts for a moment.

And she folds her arms and grins at him.

Ben laughs loud, the most animated we've seen him, and his

laugh as infectious, and Sera join in. Other diners turn to

stare at them. They seem like a couple.

CUT TO:

81 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT

Ben and Sera walk and talk, holding hands.

82 EXT. DESERT - DAY

A wide shot. The black Town Car makes its way across frame.

Left to right.

CUT TO:

83 INT. SERA'S house - day

Ben is asleep on the sofa. As he wakes up, he becomes aware

that Sera is watching him from across the room. They smile at

each other.

They sit in silence for a while.

She walks out of the room, and into the bathroom, where she

sits on the toilet to pee.

She finishes, wipes herself and flushes the toilet. Pulling

up her panties, she walks back into the bedroom, where Ben is

putting on his shoes.

Ben is unable to deal with the fact that he is absolutely in

love with her. He walks out of the room. She foolows.

Ben turns to look at her.

Ben and Sera look at each other for a long time.

Ben is deeply troubled. He comes to a decision.

Sera grabs him in a big embrace that knocks him off balance

and into the wall. She kisses him all over his face and

squeezes his skinny frame.

CUT TO:

84 INT. BEN'S ROOM AT THE MOTEL - DAY

Ben is packing his liquor into his suitcase. The almost-empty

bottles he pours into a large cup, which he drinks from. The

suitcase is now full and Ben suddenly realizes that he hasn't

packed any clothes. They are all in a pile on the bed. He

talks to himself.

He tries to put clothes in with the bottles, but the lid

won't close. He sits on the bed and has an imaginary

conversation with Sera.

And he opens the closet and finds some plastic laundry bags,

which he puts his clothes in.

85 SCENE CUT.

CUT TO:

86 EXT. SERA'S HOUSE - DAY

Sera's neighbors, a husband and wife, are standing outside

her house. They stop her. They are also her landlord.

And they indicate the sleeping figure of Ben, in the doorway,

clutching a bottle of bourbon, using hi suitcase as a pillow.

They go to their own house. Sera opens the front door, kneels

down next to Ben and shakes him gently.

Ben opens his eyes and looks around with a pleasant, cheerful

expression.

Ben stands and almost loses his balance. He picks up his

suitcase and attempts to pick up her packages as well, but

she stop him.

Ben staggers in with his case. As Sera enters, she looks

around and sees Husband and Wife at the window, still

watching.

She reaches into her purse.

And she gives him a newly cut key. He takes it and tries it

in the lock, then drops it into his pocket.

And he tails off and stares at the floor. She waits for him

to continue and then comes to him and touches him on the arm.

87 INT. SERA'S HOUSE - DAY

He shakes his head.

He sees the parcels.

He strides into the living room and flops on to the sofa. She

follows.

And he stares at her as if to say that nothing can happen

until this matter is resolved.

She is uncomfortable.

They sit in silence for a while.

She hands him the larger of the two parcels.

Ben awkwardly unwraps the present, a large, colorful shirt. A

genuine smile comes on to his face.

He holds the shirt against himself.

Sera raise an eyebrow.

She hands him the last present.

Ben unwraps the smallest gift. It is a silver hip flask. He

is very touched and a little tear trickles down his cheek.

He turns it in his hands.

Ben stands and tries the flask in his pocket for fit. It is

fine. He walks to the door.

Ben comes back into the room, takes the flask out of his suit

pocket and has a drink.

He takes out all of his money, peels off a few hundreds and

then gives her the rest.

And she leaves. There is a slight edge to her voice and Ben

is not sure if he offended her or not. He watches through the

small angle of the door as she changes.

88 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT

Ben and Sera walking. The camera follows them. He is wearing

his new shirt and looks good in it. She is wearing a green

dress and mismatched earrings and looks great. They walk and

talk.

He changes sides.

And she stops and looks at him, smiling but serious.

89 INT. CASINO - NIGHT

They walk around the huge space, which is full of people and

energy, and suddenly Ben grabs Sera and pushes her against a

slot machine and kisses her deeply. At first she resists and

then she gives in to him and responds. They knock over some

change, which falls to the floor, and Ben pulls from her a

beat to bend down and scoop up all the change and hand it to

the bemused player, before returning to Sera's mouth or more.

They break for air and then Ben leads her towards the bar. As

he waves to attract the barman's attention, she squeezes his

arm.

But he doesn't hear her.

ANGLE ON CASINO ACTIVITY

On long lens we see Ben and Sera at the bar. Suddenly Ben

crazy and falls backwards off his stool, knocking a waitress

and her drinks over. Security Guards appear and begin arguing

with Sera.

CUT TO:

90 INT. SERA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Ben wakes up on the sofa, fully dressed. A night-light gives

a soft glow. He rolls off the sofa, landing on all fours on

the floor. He crawls to the kitchen , opens the fridge door

and takes out a vodka bottle and carton of orange juice. With

difficulty he gets to his feet, finds a glass and pour s a

drink. He swallows the mix and then stands over the sink just

in case he has to vomit.

91 INT. SERA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sera wakes and Ben comes in and gets into bed with her.

She turns away to the wall and curls up like a small girl.

He thinks about this. He gently pushes her until she is lying

on her front and then he pulls up her nightdress and strokes

her naked back. He kisses her in the small of her back.

He stands and goes to the door.

As he leaves the room, she calls after him.

He opens the door and smiles at her.

CUT TO:

92 EXT. SIDEWALK - EARLY MORNING

Ben gets out of his  cab and walks up to the doorway of a

grocery store. It is locked. Ben looks at his wrist and then

remembers that he no longer has a watch. He looks around,

sees something and exits frame.

CUT TO:

93 INT. ROUGH ENGLISH BAR - EARLY MORNING

Ben enters and makes his way to the bar. This is a dirty,

dark place. An ageing blonde in leather hot pants is dancing

by herself at the jukebox. A very drunk Biker Couple argue

noisily in a corner, slurring their words. There ins not much

gambling taking place at the eight slot machines. Ben sits at

the bar and the Bartender slaps down a paper napkin.

The Bartender walks away to get Ben's drinks, Ben continues

anyway.

Ben is interrupted by the arrival of the Biker Girl. She is

young tough and pretty. She puts an arm around him and

presses against him.

She runs her tongue around her mouth.

Ben looks around and sees the Biker staring at the two of

them.

The Biker walks over to the slot machine and begins dropping

in quarters, never taking his eyes off Ben and the Girl.

The Girl leans with her back to the bar, closer to Ben , who

is facing the bar on a stool. She brings her face closer to

his.

She moves to his ear to whisper.

And she begins sucking on his lobe. Behind them. At the slot

machine the Biker is still watching. His face fills with a

drunken rage.

The Biker throws down his beer can and walks towards the bar.

The Biker arrives at the bar and grabs Ben.

The Biker is about to hit Ben then holds back. He leans in

and puts his face next to Ben's.

The Biker slaps her and then grabs Ben by the collar.

Ben shakes his arm free from the Biker's grip. He thinks

about it for a couple of beats and then decides.

The Biker headbutts Ben in the face, sending him crashing off

his stool to the floor. His head cracks against the tiled

floor. The Biker walks over to him, picks him up by his shirt

front and punches him in the nose. Blood sprays on to his

face. The Biker walks out of the bar. The Girl follows him

quickly. The Bartender takes a wet towel and walks over to

where Ben is struggling to get up, holding his face.

He gives him the towel.

CUT TO:

94 EXT. SERA'S HOUSE - MORNING

Ben lets himself in with his key. He is carrying a big bag of

groceries. His clothes are bloodstained. The Landlady watches

from poolside.

He walks into the living room and finds Sera reading on the

shirt.

She goes to the bathroom and we hear her rummaging in the

medicine cabinet.

She comes back into the room, armed with bottles and cotton

wool.

She goes to work on his face, dabbing an open cut with some

mercurochrome.

She thinks about this for a moment and then kisses him on the

forehead.

CUT TO:

95 INT. MALL - DAY

Ben and Sera come out of a clothing store. Ben is wearing

black jeans, red socks and a white dress shirt. They go up

the 'up' escalator.

Ben somehow gets on the 'down' escalator, leaving Sera on the

higher level.

CUT TO:

96 INT. SHOPPING MALL BAR. DAY

Ben needs a drink badly but this is not the best place.

Mothers with children, old people and a Waitress with

attitude. Ben tries to order but becomes angry when she

doesn't bring it straight away. People begin staring. At the

next table a dignified older man sits alone.

Ben hands Sera a small package.

CLOSE ANGLE

He laughs and this induces a coughing fit. He downs his drink

and holds up the empty glass to let the waitress know she

should bring another.

She does so. It is a pair of onyx earrings. Black onyx set in

white gold.

His new drink arrives and he takes a swallow straight away.

She looks at him, aware of what she has said, wondering how

he is reacting. She smiles and Ben takes a deep swallow,

finishing his drink. His mood suddenly changes.

She does so. Ben helps her, bringing his face down close to

hers.

They are both suddenly deeply shocked by what he has said.

They sit in silence for a while. Sera is close to tears. Ben

gets up suddenly, puts down a couple of bills and walks away

from the table. When he is almost at the door Sera gets up

and quickly tries together up all of the packages.

ANGLE ON THE DOOR

The dignified older Man stands in Ben's path and places his

hands on Ben's shoulders.

Sera catches up and the Man lets go of Ben. Ben takes the

mall.

97 INT. MALL - DAY

They walk together.

They stop and look at each other. The PA system gives an

inane message.

CUT TO:

98 INT. SERA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sera is preparing for work. In the background we can hear the

TV next door. She dresses carefully. Black underwear,

stockings, heels, a tight black skirt.

99 INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Ben is watching TV and drinking.

100 INT. SERA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sera at the mirror, putting on her make-up. Her make-up is

more extreme.

101 INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Sera comes into the room. Ben looks up at her and sucks in

his breath.

She walks over to him and takes his head and places it

between her breasts and kisses the top of his head.

She comes on to him.

She goes to the door.

CUT TO:

102 INT. SMART HOTEL - NIGHT

Sera walks through the lobby, looking for business.

103 EXT. A STREET - NIGHT

Ben lying down with people walking past and over him.

ANGLE ON BEN'S FACE

A big smile appears on his face. He starts to laugh.

FADE OUT:

FADE IN:

104 EXT. DESSERT - DAY

A blue car drives across frame. The sun is bright.

105 EXT. DESERT MOTEL, POOL - DAY

Sera is a very good swimmer and we see that Ben must have

been quite an athlete. They look at each other under water.

They're under water for a long time. Ben exhales. Sera pushes

him towards the surface.

Ben and Sera come to the surface. Ben has swallowed water and

has a coughing fit. Sera hugs him until the fit passes. The

camera moves in tighter on them and music gives the moment a

strange chill.

CUT TO:

106 EXT. POOL - NIGHT

Ben and Sera are watching the TV next to the poll. They are

sitting in reclining chairs. Inn the distance a coyote howls.

They watch the TV in silence for a while. Sera holds his

hand.

CUT TO:

107 INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Ben mixes a cocktail for himself, then one for Sera. The

camera follows him as he goes...

108 EXT. POOL-SIDE - DAY

... to the side of the pool, where Sera is sunbathing. He

lowers himself unsteadily into the chair but avoids spilling

a drop of the drinks, which he puts down on to a glass-topped

table. He is pretty loaded. Sera turns over and moves out of

his shadow.

Sera gets up, takes a drink and then walks to the diving

board. As she takes a position at the end, she pulls the

bathing suit out from her bottom, does a very natural dive

into the pool, swims a length under water and then comes out

near Ben, pulls herself out of the pool in one move and bends

down and kisses Ben for a long time. Ben responds and kisses

back. There is no one else around the pool.

The kiss becomes heated and urgent and Sera sits on Ben,

making him wet from her. He pushes the top of her suit down

and kisses her breasts. She picks up the glass and drinks,

letting the alcohol spill from her mouth, over her breasts.

Ben drinks from her.

He tries to pull her swimsuit down.

She stands up, covering herself. Ben stands up, laughing,

loses his balance and slips on the wet concrete. He falls

backwards, half on to the chair, which he breaks, and then on

to the glass table. The table goes over and it and the

glasses all shatter on the concrete. Ben falls on the broken

glass and cuts himself all over his back and his arms. Glass

goes into the pool. Blood mingles with the water on the

steaming cement.

Sera picks up her towel and lays it down next to him. She

kneels and helps him up, trying to pullout the little bits of

glass sticking to him. Ben stands unsteadily.

He indicates the mess, then walks to their room. Sera begins

carefully picking up the broken glass. The desk clerc appears

with a broom and a dustpan.

He begins sweeping the broken glass into the pan, cheerfully

ignoring Sera.

He looks directly at Sera.

Nodding firmly, he goes back to the mess, indicating that the

conversation is over.

CUT TO:

109 INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Sera comes into the room.

She sees that he is already asleep on the bed, his half-naked

body covered with countless bits of bloodstained tissue. The

image has an almost religious feel to it. The TV is on and a

sitcom is playing.

Something funny catches Sera's attention. She laughs and sits

on the bed next to Ben.

CUT TO:

110 EXT. DESERT LANDSCAPE - DUSK

through frame and drives towards the town.

FADE OUT:

FADE UP ON:

111 INT. SERA'S BEDROOM, LAS VEGAS - NIGHT

Ben wakes from a dream. He is fully clothed and very

agitated.

112 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Sera is cooking.

Ben comes in from the kitchen and takes vodka bottles from

the fridge.

113 scene cut.

114 scene cut.

115 INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Ben's hands are sweating and it's difficult for him to keep

hold of the bottle as he drinks. He gets most of it down and

then he hunches over the sink and immediately vomits. He

takes the second bottle and tries again.

CUT TO:

116 INT. SHOWER - NIGHT

Still holding the bottle, Ben stands in the shower. He drinks

some more and closes his eyes.

CUT TO:

117 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Ben enters, smartly dressed and smiling.

CUT TO:

118 INT. DINING ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Ben and Sera sitting opposite each other. He has a bowl of

rice, which he is pretending to eat in between sips of vodka.

She has a bowl of vegetables and rice. She sits, silently for

a while, and then puts down her chopsticks.

Ben looks away.

She folds her arms.

He thinks for a while and then turns to meet her gaze. They

look right into each other's eyes.

Sera continues to look at him almost defiantly.

She leans right forward.

She stands up

Ben doesn't say anything. He just stares a hole in his bowl

of rice.

CUT TO:

119 INT. CASINO - NIGHT

Ben walks by himself. He is deep in thought.

CUT TO:

120 INT. CASINO - NIGHT

Ben recklessly bets two hundred dollars at the craps

table... and wins. As he leans forward to collect his

winnings, he sees...

ANGLE:

... a Blonde in a very low-cut outfit. She smiles at Ben and

walks around the table to pick him up. Ben puts all of his

winnings on one bet and wins again. This pattern repeats a

few times and drinks are on the house.

Ben gets to the point.

A few people hear Ben and the Blonde is almost put off, but

he does have about eight thousand dollars in winnings and so

she leans in very close so that she can talk quietly.

The Blonde picks up a sizeable stack of chips and looks at

Ben.

CUT TO:

121 INT. SERA'S HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Sera lets herself in, looks around and opens the bedroom

door.

ANGLE:

In one fluid movement the naked blonde gets off the semi-

conscious Ben, pulls her dress over her head and walks past

Sera. Moments later we hear the front door slam. Ben comes to

and looks at Sera. He is more or less unaware of what has

just happened.

ANGLE ON SERA

Her eyes are wet.

Ben gets out of the bed. He picks up the bottle on the

bedside table and stands.

He walks out of the room and closes his the door. Camera

moves in on Sera. She covers her face with her hands. She

drops her purse and slides down the wall to the floor,

weeping quietly.

FADE OUT:

FADE IN:

122 EXT. STREET - DAY

Ben coming out of a liquor store with a large brown bag.

CUT TO:

123 EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Sera getting out of a car. The car drives off. Sera examines

her face in a pocket mirror. Puts on more lipstick.

CUT TO:

124 INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Ben is on all fours in the bathroom trying to vomit. His thin

frame is heaving. Bottles everywhere.

CUT TO:

125 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT

Three college boys with beer bottles walk the The Strip. They

are all wearing the same numbered jersey. Nice middle-class

boys looking for an adventure. They see Sera and go into a

huddle before walking over to her.

The other two College Boys titter. Sera starts to walk away

and then hesitates.

The other College Boy gets out his wallet and opens it to

show her. Sera hesitates, not somehow comfortable with the

situation, then goes ahead.

They walk off in a huddle, giggling - three small boys.

CUT TO:

126 EXT. YUKON MOTEL - NIGHT

Sera drinks from a beer bottle as she approaches their room.

She talks to herself.

She looks at the numbers and finds the room. She knocks and a

moment later the Tallest College Boy opens the door in his

jockey shorts.

127 INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Sera steps in. One boy is coming out of the bathroom wearing

a towel and the third is sitting in a chair smoking a

cigarette, which he passes to the boy in the towel. The other

boy is fooling around with a video camera. The atmosphere is

weird and Sera is suddenly alert.

The Tallest College Boy hands her the money. He is very well

built, a football player. Sera hesitates, holding the money.

The Tallest College Boy closes the door and then leans

against it. They are all staring at her now. No one says

anything. Sera smiles suddenly and puts the money in her

purse. All business.

They all look at each other.

He looks at the other.

The Smallest College Boy gets off the bed and comes over to

Sera.

The Tallest Boy is still standing in front of the door and

things are getting strange. The Other Boy turns on the video

camera. Sera loses her cool.

The room goes very quiet. The kid tears up. Sera tries to

back-pedal.

The kid punches her hard in the stomach, knocking her to the

ground.

CUT TO BLACK:

QUICK FADE IN:

Close-up on Sera's face pushed into a bloodstained pillow,

her body being pounded from behind. The naked legs of two of

the boys behind her. We hear voices, filtered, from a long

way off.

A hand comes into frame and pulls her head up by the hair. A

pair of legs moves in. There is the sound of a punch.

FADE OUT:

FADE IN:

Sera's body on the floor. In the background trousers being

hastily pulled on to legs. The boys exit with sport bags.

The last one turns out the lights and closes the door.

FADE OUT:

128 INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAWN

In the half-light Sera gets up and walks with difficulty to

the bathroom.

129 INT. BATHROOM - DAWN

She clicks on the mirror light. Her face is awful. One eye is

swollen almost shut. Her top lip is cut.

CUT TO BLACK:

130 INT. CAB - EARLY MORNING

Sera gets into the cab with considerable difficulty. The cab

driver is a cynic.

Without speaking she takes out a twenty, leans forward and

drops it on the front passenger seat. He drives. Looks at her

in the mirror.

CUT TO:

131 EXT. SERA'S HOUSE - MORNING

As the cab drives off, Sera walks slowly to the door.

Her Landlord's wife passes and takes in her face.

CUT TO:

132 INT. SERA'S SHOWER - DAY

Sera is slumped on the floor of the shower, her arms hugging

CUT TO:

133 INT. SERA'S HOUSE - DAY

Sera opens the door and we see the Landlord. Behind him, on

the sidewalk, we can see his wife. He is embarrassed.

ANGLE

Sera, wearing dark glasses. She looks terrible. Her mouth is

swollen and some of the bruising around her eye is visible.

CUT TO:

134 EXT. WHOLE YEAR INN - DAY

Sera gets out of a cab and goes into reception. She is

wearing huge dark glasses to hide the black eye and the

bruising.

CUT TO:

135 INT. HOTEL - DAY

The desk clerk is wearing a shirt of Ben's that we recognize

from an earlier scene.

CUT TO:

136 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT

Sera walks alone. She's dejected as she looks for Ben.

137 INT. CASINO - NIGHT

Sera comes to an elevator and waits. She is wearing a thin

black top without a bra. Her bruised face makes her suddenly

very conspicuous and vulnerable. A big man in a white stetson

stands next to her. He looks at her and grins. She smiles,

coldly. He takes from his pocket two black, hundred dollar

chips, places one in each hand and deliberately places each

one against her nipples. Other people see this and stop and

watch. Sera looks down at his hands and stares until the man

becomes uncomfortable.

And he walks away laughing.

CUT TO:

138 EXT. 7-ELEVEN - DAY

Sera is sitting on a freshly-painted red kerb. She smokes a

cigarette and doesn't give a damn that her short skirt is

somewhat revealing. Opposite her a bum is sleeping on the

pavement. For a moment it looks like Ben. The camera comes in

tight on to her face. She looks more lost that we've ever

seen her. She drinks coffee from a styrofoam cup. The sun is

bright and hot and traffic is noisy.

139 INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Improvised scene. (5)

140 INT. CASINO - NIGHT

Sera comes in and the camera follows her as she makes her way

to the bar. She has covered up much of the bruising with

make-up but it is still pretty obvious. In wide shot we see

her strike up a conversation with the man next to her at the

bar.

CLOSE SHOT - THE BAR

A hand comes in to shot and grips her arm firmly. We see that

it is a casino security guard.

And he jerks her arm. People are watching now.

He steers her firmly across the floor.

CUT TO:

141 EXT. CASINO. NIGHT

They reach the sidewalk and, without relaxing his grip, he

grabs her between the legs with his free hand and says in her

ear:

And he pushes her towards the street and walks back into the

Casino. Sera is shocked. She looks around and the group of

people who have stopped to watch the event move away.

142 INT. SERA'S HOUSE - DAY

Sera is throwing clothes into a suitcase.  The phone rings.

She thinks about it for a long time and then it stops. She

carries on packing and then the phone rings again. She pick

it up.

CUT TO:

143 INT. CAB - LATE AFTERNOON

The driver is black and friendly. The radio drones quietly  -

a religious program. The Rev. Ike is taking listeners' calls.

144 INT. BEN'S MOTEL ROOM - DUSK

The door opens. Ben is naked. His body looks bad. Leaving the

door open, he retreats to the bed.

145 INT. BEN'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Sera comes in, closing the door behind her. The shades are

drawn and the room is gloomy. Ben has got back into bed. She

comes to the bed and sits.

She clicks on the bedside light and is truly shocked by his

face.

She goes to the bathroom and returns with a wet face-cloth.

She wipes his face.

He sits up painfully and finds a bottle, summoning up some

last strength to drink. His entire body shudders as he drains

the bottle. He puts it down and focuses on her for the first

time. H sees her damaged face, touches her face, looks at her

questioningly.

Ben begins to cry and that sets her off.

She shakes her head, unable to speak for the moment. She gets

into bed with him, kissing his face. She caresses his whole

body, which is shaking, possessed by an uncontrollable fever.

She excites him with her hand, kissing his face gently. When

he is about to come, she straddles him and brings him inside.

As he comes, he opens his eyes wide and looks at her.

SLOW FADE TO BLACK:

FADE IN:

Sera is sleeping. A sudden gasp wakes her. Ben is having a

spasm. Suddenly his body relaxes. He turns his head, opens

his eyes wide and looks straight at her.

He smiles and turns his head away. He is very still.

CUT TO:

146 INT. BEN'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

In the darkened room we can just make out Sera sitting on the

bed, looking at the still form of Ben.

CUT TO:

147 EXT. STREET NEAR MOTEL -  DAWN

Sera walking. A paramedic van goes past with its lights

flashing. The soundtrack is empty - silent. We slowly fade in

theme music and titles start to roll.

[THE END]

