Lost in Translation, Inc.

September 2, 2002

FADE IN:

EXT. NARITA AIRPORT - NIGHT

We hear the sound of a plane landing over black.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S ROOM - NIGHT

The back of a GIRL in pink underwear, she leans at a big

window, looking out over Tokyo.

Melodramatic music swells over the Girl's butt in pink sheer

underwear as she lies on the bed.

TITLE CARDS OVER IMAGE.

LOST IN TRANSLATION

INT. CAR - NIGHT

POV from a car window - the colors and lights of Tokyo neon

at night blur by.

In the backseat of a Presidential limousine, BOB (late-

forties), tired and depressed, leans against a little doily,

staring out the window.

P.O.V. from car window- We see buildings covered in bright

signs, a billboard of Brad Pitt selling jeans, another of

Bob in black & white,looking distinguished with a bottle of

whiskey in a Suntory ad... more signs, a huge TV with perky

Japanese pop stars singing.

EXT. PARK HYATT - NIGHT

Bob's black Presidential (looks like a 60's diplomat's car)

pulls up at the entrance of the Park Hyatt, a modern sky

rise.

The automatic doors open on the car, as Bob gets out.   Eager

BELLHOPS with white gloves approach at the sight of the car,

welcoming Bob and helping him with his bags.

INT. PARK HYATT - NIGHT

Bob stands in the back of a crowded elevator surrounded by

Japanese businessmen below his shoulders.

The elevator stops at the 50th floor and the doors open onto

the massive, streamline lobby of the Park Hyatt.

Bob follows the JAPANESE BUSINESSMEN out into the marble and

glass lobby that frames the view of Tokyo.

The CONCIERGE and several eager HOTEL MANAGERS greet Bob. He

just wants to sleep, but more STAFF continue to greet him,

ask him about his fright. They lead him to reception.

INT. HOTEL RECEPTION - NIGHT

At the reception area four JAPANESE BUSINESSMEN and two WOMEN

quickly sit up from their seats on sight of Bob, and extend

handshakes and gifts. They bow and introduce themselves from

the commercial company, extend name cards and welcome him

enthusiastically.

More staff welcomes him and offer their service during his

stay.

One of them presents a fax that has come for him.

INSERT -

"TO: BOB HARRIS

FROM: LYDIA HARRIS

YOU FORGOT ADAM'S BIRTHDAY.

I'M SURE HE'LL UNDERSTAND.

HAVE A GOOD TRIP, L"

He doesn't know what to do with it, and stuffs it in his

pocket.

The commercial people tell him when they'll be picking him

up, and ask if he needs anything else.

Some JAPANESE ROCK STARS with shag haircuts and skinny leather

pants pass by. Each commercial person has to shake Bob's

hand before leaving.

INT. BOB'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bob sits on the end of the bed in a too small hotel kimono.

INT. PARK HYATT BAR - NIGHT

Bob sits at the bar. A few minutes pass as he sits in silence

looking around, drinking a scotch.  Chet Baker sings "The

Thrill is Gone" over the stereo.

We see Bob's POV of tables of people talking. JAPANESE WOMEN

SMOKING, AMERICAN BUSINESSMEN tying one on, talking about

software sales. A WAITER carefully setting down a coaster,

and pouring a beer very, very slowly. It's all very foreign.

INT. BOB'S HOTEL ROOM - MORNING

The automatic hotel curtains open, pouring light into the

room.

INT.HOTEL BATHROOM - DAY

Bob gets in the shower overlooking the view of Tokyo. The

shower head is at his elbows, he raises it as high as it

goes, and leans down to have a shower. This hotel was not

designed with him in mind.

INT. STUDIO - DAY

Whiskey commercial shoot.

The set is full of activity as the JAPANESE CREW work. Bob,

in a shawl collared tuxedo sits at a European style bar set

with a cut crystal glass of whiskey. A JAPANESE GIRL quickly

powders his face as they adjust lights and the DIRECTOR and

crew speak in hurried Japanese.

The Director (with blue contact lenses) says a few long

sentences in Japanese.

TRANSLATOR, a middle-aged woman in a coordinated outfit,

translates but it is only a short sentence now.

Bob wonders what she's leaving out, or if that's the way it

works from Japanese to English.

Bob thinks let's just get it over with.

The Translator blots her face with a tissue, and asks the

director in a Japanese sentence 5 times as long. The Director

answers her in a long excited phrase.

The excited Director says more in Japanese. Translator nods

in understanding. Bob doesn't really know what's going on.

They get ready, and roll camera:

Bob turns and looks suavely to the camera:

The Director yells something about ten sentences long. The

translator nods.

The Translator answers for him in four sentences.

ON THE MONITOR - we see the next take: the moody lighting

shines on Bob, the camera gets closer as he stares into camera

and gives them the line.

EXT. TOKYO - NIGHT

Shinjuku High rises sparkle.

INT. PARK HYATT BAR - NIGHT

Tall glass walls show the neon and high-rises of the city.

A sad and romantic Bill Evans song plays. Bob sits alone

with a scotch at the bar.

Some drunk AMERICAN BUSINESSMEN, with their ties thrown over

their shoulders recognize him.

Bob  nods.

INT. BOB'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bob comes back to his room. The maids have left everything

perfect, his beige bed is turned down, and the TV has been

left on to a channel playing a montage of flower close-ups

in nature while sad violin music plays. It's supposed to be

relaxing, but it's just sad.

Bob lies in bed. He flips through TV channels from the remote

control.  He passes a Japanese game show, to an 80s Cannon

Ball run-type movie with him in it dubbed into Japanese. He

turns it off as he hears a knock at the door.

He goes to the door, and opens it part way.

He pauses, then opens the door.

A WOMAN in her forties in a short tight leather mini skirt

and stockings comes in. She is wearing '60s style make-up.

Bob sits on the bed not sure what to do as he watches her.

Bob's POV - We see her back to us as she puts a CD on the

stereo - it begins to play: Serge Gainsberg and Brigitte

Bardot sing "Bonnie & Clyde".  The woman turns slyly around

and shimmies over to Bob.

She pushes him back onto the bed. He hesitates, but then

goes along with it passively.

He fumbles with her stockings, trying to do as she says.

He takes his hands back confused.

He backs away, as he tries to understand her.

She throws her leg up to him on the bed.

She pantomimes ripping them. He finally understands.

He pulls at her stockings trying to rip them, but they just

snap.

She pretends to struggle.

He pulls his hands away. She grabs them and puts them back

on her, and keeps struggling dramatically. They wrestle around

awkwardly, her pretending to try to get away, but not letting

him go. She rips her stockings and falls off the bed in fake-

defense.

She pulls a confused Bob down on top of her. He doesn't know

what she wants.

She rips another stocking and pins him on the ground. He

tries to crawl away, she grabs his leg and trips him. He

grabs a nearby table leg as he falls, the lamp crashes to

the floor, the room goes black.

INT. HOTEL RESTAURANT - DAY

In the harsh sunlight of the big windows Bob eats breakfast

alone. Next to him is a table of TEXANS in cowboy hats. At

another table a JAPANESE COUPLE in sunglasses chain smoke

and drink coffee.

INT. HOTEL ELEVATOR - DAY

Bob gets into the ded elevator. He is stopped momentarily by

the Concierge who asks him if everything is fine for his

stay.

In the elevator Bob's surrounded by JAPANESE BUSINESSPEOPLE

and a FAMILY dressed for a wedding.

Across, at the other side of the elevator he sees CHARLOTTE,

a pretty Ivy-league girl in her mid-twenties, and the only

other Westerner in the elevator. Her honey-colored hair stands

out in the crowd.

She's looking at him like you do when someone new comes in

the elevator, but the Japanese look straight ahead at the

elevator doors.

Charlotte and Bob look at each other across the Japanese

heads. She smiles, from one foreigner to another. The door

opens and she gets out with the crowd. Bob watches her leave.

He is approached by a group of eight excited people from the

commercial company there waiting to take him.

Bob feigns enthusiasm briefly.

INT. PHOTO STUDIO - DAY

Bob's back is to us as a MAKE-UP ARTIST is putting some final

touches on him. The PHOTOGRAPHER is giving her enthusiastic

direction in Japanese. Bob talks on his cell phone, not paying

attention to the make-up artist.

He hangs up. The make-up artist dusts him with powder.

The commercial people are crowding around. Bob's chair is

swivelled around and we see him in his tuxedo, wearing too

much make-up and some weird looking eyeliner.

In front of a grey backdrop, moody lighting is being adjusted

and Bob is handed a bottle of Suntory.

small documentary crew moves in on Bob with a video camera-

the camera man is tilting the camera at his face in arty

dutch camera moves.

The agency people crowd around. The photographer is excited

and urges Bob to do dumb poses, he won't do.

The photographer demonstrates a dramatic pose with his hands

at his face.

The photographer starts shooting. Bob obviously hates the

whole thing, what you do for money.

INT. PARK HYATT BAR - NIGHT

Bob, still in his tuxedo and make-up from the shoot, sits

alone having a drink. A JAZZ BAND FROM SAUSALITO performs.

The SINGER is a middle-aged woman with red wavy hair, dressed

in red, and takes her singing very seriously. She sings a

slow version of "Parsley, Sage, Rosemary and Thyme".

C.U. - a golden beer is poured very slowly.

Bob drinks his scotch, hoping it will all go away.

Across the bar, Charlotte sits with JOHN, her husband (he is

in his late twenties and sloppy in a fashionable way), and

some FRIENDS - super stylish, weird Japanese fashion people

(all smoking). One of them, CHARLIE, in a shiny suit, keeps

taking pictures, and showing them magazine layouts.

Charlotte laughs and looks down, the Japanese audience clap

very seriously... she and Bob catch eyes - about Sausalito

and how weird it is there.

INT. ELEVATOR - LATER

The mirrored elevator doors close and Bob sees himself close-

up in the elevator's mirrored walls - noticing the heavy

makeup and weird eyeliner from the shoot which he had

forgotten about. He looks at himself.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Charlotte lays close to her young husband, John. She looks

to see if he's awake, but he's sleeping soundly. She leans

her chin on his shoulder.

He doesn't answer.

He grumbles something, opens one sleepy eye to look at her,

and grabs her under the covers. He kisses her.

He holds her close, but she can't sleep.

Charlotte sits on a ledge looking out at the big buildings.

The sun is starting to come up. Below she watches cars going

places.

INT. BOB'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bob lies in bed awake. The clock says 4:20.

The in-room fax machine is making noise as a fax rolls in.

Bob looks at the fax machine but doesn't get out of bed.

The fax curls and falls to the floor.

CLOSE ON FAX -

"BOB-

YOU DIDN'T TELL ME WHICH SHELVES YOU WANT IN YOUR STUDY.

PLEASE PICK ONE OUT AND LET ME KNOW. I'M HAVING LOTS OF

QUALITY TIME WITH THE CONSTRUCTION CREW. HOPE YOU'RE HAVING

FUN THERE. LOVE, L"

Three pages of shelf diagrams follow.

INT. HOTEL GYM - NIGHT

The gym is empty except for an old man vacuuming. Bob passes

piles of little towels and bottles of water. He takes a water

for his workout.

He approaches an exercise machine and puts the water in the

drink holder of the machine. He looks at the lit-up

instruction panel'99 it is all in Japanese.

He pushes a button, and the machine starts beeping, then a

soothing woman's voice recites instructions in Japanese.

He gets on it, and sinks. He tries to make the arms and foot

peddles coordinate. He pushes a button and it starts moving

too fast. In an upward rotation he tries to reach the control

panel, but is not fast enough. The soothing woman's voice

continues instruction.(she occasionally includes an English

word- gently,   gently...vigorous)   He tries to keep up

with it, and tries again to push the right button to slow it

down, but the machine steps starts going swiftly backwards

instead.

INT. PARK HYATT LOBBY (GROUND FLOOR) - DAY

The agency group wait for Bob. They stand up as he approaches

from the elevator, trying to mask a slight limp.

Miss Kawasaki notices his limp with concern as they leave

the hotel.

EXT. SHIBUYA STATION - DAY

Charlotte gets out at shibuya station, a crowded neighborhood

filled with neon, ads, and people.

She looks up at the huge intersection as tons of JAPANESE

PEOPLE wait to cross the street, no one steps forward until

the cross-walk light changes, and all of them cross.

A TV screen covering a building plays commercials.

She roams around the narrow streets, crowded with stylish

JAPANESE KIDS, tan SCHOOLGIRLS pass her.

Charlotte wanders down a crowded street, looking around.

On a small side street she stops at a little park. She watches

a JAPANESE MAN AND WOMAN together:

CHARLOTTE'S POV -

C.U. The man reaches his hand to the back of the woman's

neck, and leans in close. The woman smiles at him, in love.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

John is sound asleep. Charlotte is awake next to him. She

looks at the clock - it's three a.m.

She slides close to him, kisses his mouth. He grumbles

something in his deep sleep, and rolls over.

She goes to the couch, stepping over camera equipment.

She looks at the fruit basket, decides to try an apple. She

has a piece but isn't really hungry.

She reaches over some proof sheets and looks at a magazine,

but she's already looked at it a few times before. She decides

to go downstairs.

INT. PARK HYATT BAR - NIGHT

Bob sits alone at the bar. Charlotte sits down a seat away

from him, lost in his thoughts, he doesn't see her until he

turns and finds her next to him. They look at each other. A

young BARTENDER with a sweet face tends to them.

Charlotte smiles at him sympathetically

She looks at him.

She lifts a cigarette, he lights it for her.

He makes small talk about the pickled seaweed breakfast and

jet lag, they commiserate about having not slept in days.

They clink glasses.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

The hotel is filled with business people. A dressed up FAMILY

is going to lunch. We follow a jet-lagged Charlotte and John,

as they walk down the lobby hall.

An energetic blonde actress, KELLY, pops up to them. (She's

carrying a copy of Memoirs of a Geisha.)

John, who was holding Charlotte's hand, drops it.

She does a karate chop and laughs.

Charlotte looks at John.

Kelly, giggling and acting all too comfortable with herself,

is eating up all the oxygen around them.

Kelly giggles. Charlotte smirks.

And Kelly and her make-up artist and publicist are off. John

and Charlotte continue.

John shrugs.

Charlotte shoots him a look.

His producer comes up to them. John puts his arm around

Charlotte, kisses her, everything's fine.

He kisses her on the cheek, and is gone.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Charlotte walks into the empty hotel room. C.U. - Charlotte's

feet as she clips her toenails.

C.U. -Charlotte's hand by an ashtray, writes in a journal.

Charlotte looks in a mirror, trying on an unfinished scarf

she's knitting.  She checks the length on herself.

Charlotte sits on the big window sill checking her messages

on the phone.

We hear the # key as Charlotte hits it to interrupt the

message.

She hits a button.

She pushes a number to delete the message.

Charlotte pushes a button.

Charlotte lies on the bed, in the knit scarf and underwear

She's doing a quiz in a magazine:

"ARE YOU HAVING A MID-TWENTIES CRISIS?

ARE YOU FATIGUED?

DO YOU HAVE NO IDEA WHERE YOUR CAREER IS GOING?

DO YOU HATE MOST PEOPLE?"

INT. HOTEL POOL - DAY

An Olympic pool is framed by tall glass walls with the Tokyo

view. Bob is handed a swim cap and goggles.

Bob watches a Japanese BUSINESSMAN swimming, he looks like

an over-grown baby.

Bob swims laps in the pristine pool.

He continues his laps. Under water he sees the jumping legs

of MIDDLE-AGED WOMEN.

A disco mixed tape starts, and above water we see a WESTERN

INSTRUCTOR in tight shorts leading an aqua-aerobics class to

the group of WOMEN, They jump up and down to Sister Sledge.

INT. HOTEL SPA - DAY

Bob walks past the rows of lockers to the Sauna room.

He sits in the sauna, two HOTEL GUESTS speak German in the

corner.

Bob comes out from the sauna, red and sweaty.

Bob submerges in the cold water of a small pool in the sauna

room, having a moment of relief.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S ROOM - DAY

Charlotte lies on the floor with big headphones on, listening

to a book on tape. After a corny music intro, a very serious

scholar man's voice speaks clearly :

DR. KENGARD (0.S.) Did you ever wonder what your purpose in

life is? This book is about finding your soul's purpose or

destiny. Every soul has its path, but sometimes that path is

not clear.  The acorn theory is an example of each soul

beginning with an imprint....

Charlotte tries to get into it, but can't get past feeling

like a loser listening to a self-help tape. She looks at the

doctor's photo on the audio-book box, he's bald, in a

turtleneck and glasses.

INT. HOTEL - DAY

Charlotte follows a JAPANESE FAMILY in formal dress out of

the elevator onto the mezzanine level. She wanders down a

big hall.

She sees an open door and steps in the crowded room, which

is in the midst of a press conference. Cameras flash as Kelly,

with wide eyes, behind a table, answers questions

enthusiastically.

KELLY You know, barbecuing, and yoga, and I love taking my

dogs, Buster and Lulu, for walks on the beach... and it was

great learning karate for "Midnight Racer" - I did all my

own stunts!

The JAPANESE JOURNALISTS seem excited by her answer.

Kelly throws a Karate punch for a PHOTOGRAPHER.

Charlotte walks out.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - DAY

Charlotte continues down a hall, she stops at an open door

and peeks in.

A quiet group of JAPANESE WOMEN are gathered around a table.

Charlotte goes in, as she gets closer she sees they are being

instructed in Ikebana floral design. Each woman has a little

vase and elegant flower cuttings. She watches as they

delicately arrange the tiny flowers.

The INSTRUCTOR hands Charlotte a vase and cuttings. Alongside

the women, Charlotte tries to follow along.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL - BATHROOM

Charlotte reclines low in the bathtub staring off. She can

see mount Fuji in the distance.

The audio tape plays on the stereo.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - EVENING

With her back to us, Charlotte looks out the big window.

John comes up and kisses her.

He hugs her for a moment, leaning on her.

INT. PARK HYATT BAR - NIGHT

At a corner table Charlotte sits with John, Kelly, and DJ

CLEAN, a skinny kid in a sweatshirt, on tour in Japan.

Charlotte is bored while Kelly talks on.

Sausalito performs in the background.

John shoots Charlotte a look.

Charlotte ashes her cigarette in a clean ashtray, and she

watches as it is quickly replaced with a new one by a WAITER.

DJ Clean starts doing a human beat box at her.

Charlotte looks over at Kelly.

Charlotte excuses herself.

She passes Bob who sits at his usual spot at the bar, as she

is leaving.

Charlotte laughs with sympathy, but doesn't know what to

tell him.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

John sleeps soundly (turned away from her), Charlotte can't

sleep. She turns on the T.V. to a crazy local T.V. variety

show.

INT BOB'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bob can't sleep, he watches the same show on T,V.

He flips the channel- it's an old black & white Japanese

movie of a man committing Hari Kari.

FADE IN:

EXT. TOKYO - MORNING

Charlotte finds her way down a narrow street in an old section

of Tokyo.

She turns a corner and finds a square with what she was

looking for.

EXT. TEMPLE - DAY

The sun shines over a beautiful old temple. Birds chirp,

Charlotte approaches and goes inside.

INT. TEMPLE - DAY

Charlotte stands in the back and watches a ceremony.

A ROSHI speaks in Japanese, monks chant. It's all very

foreign.  Charlotte tries to feel something.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - AFTERNOON

Charlotte sits on the bed talking to John who's coming out

of the bathroom, getting ready to go to work. He checks

himself in the mirror, CHARLOTTE Am I shallow?

He looks for his mobile phone.

He comes close and kisses her.

She leans back to look at him.

She looks at him funny.

He grabs her, kissing her good-bye, she wraps her him, when

his cell phone rings.

He kisses her, and leaves.

She makes a call. We see her back and hair, as she looks out

the bright window.

Lauren's Call-waiting beeps, cutting off her sentence.

Charlotte waits.

In the background a baby starts crying.

She hangs up. She sits there for a moment, starting to cry,

she wipes the tears, trying to make them go away.

INT. SUBWAY - AFTERNOON

Tokyo goes by out the window. Charlotte looks at the PEOPLE

on the crowded train. A sweaty BUSINESSMAN blots his face

with a little handkerchief.  Another older BUSINESSMAN reads

an erotic comic book.

INT. SUBWAY STATION - AFTERNOON

Charlotte looks up at the many signs, trying to figure out

which way to go, but they are all in Japanese characters.

Confused, she chooses the west exit.

EXT. STREET - AFTERNOON

Charlotte walks down a little street in a quiet neighborhood.

She stops at a window of a portrait studio and looks at all

of the wedding portraits. They are very formal and retouched,

Japanese brides and grooms dressed in a Western old-fashion

style.

EXT. ARCADE - DAY

Charlotte looks through the window as a tan Japanese boy,

tries to win a stuffed animal for his girlfriend.

INT. ARCADE - AFTERNOON

In a crowded arcade, Charlotte watches some kids play Dance

Revolution, a video game where you dance along to cues on

the

light-up floor. One BUSINESSMAN in a suit is really good and

into it.

She sees a sushi chef game where you have to cut an electronic

fish.

She looks at a firefighter game, and rows of plexi boxes

filled with some little character dolls you try to win.

INT. GALLERY BOOKSTORE - DAY

Charlotte looks at the shelves of books she passes, she flips

through some books.

She walks over to a small gallery space and goes up to the

wall to see the small photos.

They are of tied-up, partially naked Japanese school girls,

one girl is spanking another one with a stuffed animal. She's

making a face of ecstacy.

Charlotte looks at it, not getting it.

EXT. SHIBUYA - DAY

Charlotte stands alone on a side street, smoking a cigarette

and watching the CROWDS go by.

EXT. SHIBUYA - DAY

Charlotte walks up a little street filled with shops.

She stops at a window of cute underwear that she.looks at.

She goes into the shop.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

51C.U. Charlotte's lips. She puts watermelon color lipstick

on.She looks at herself in the mirror in her new underwear.

We hear the shower running in the bathroom.

Charlotte decorates the room, putting up some paper cherry

blossom decorations.

She goes over to the bed and stubs her toe on it, as she

flops down.

She holds her toe, annoyed with her klutziness.

John talks to her from the shower.

She's drifted off.

He gets out and is rushing to get his stuff together to go.

Charlotte's lounging on the bed in her new pink underwear.

She tries her scarf on that she's been knitting.

He goes to get all his stuff together.

He passes an ashtray with cigarette butts in it.

He picks up a camera from a table in the corner. He looks at

the self-help audio book box.

He kisses the side of her face and her shoulder like a cute

pet, and then continues getting his stuff together.

John sets two bottles of Cristal on the bed next to her, not

really seeing her.

As he unplugs his cell phone from the wall.

He looks at her - like don't make it harder.

They kiss.

He tackles her, kisses her, bites her, grabs her ribs,

tickling her in a burst of affection. She laughs, her arms

around his neck.

He kisses her and is off.

Charlotte sits there alone with the unopened bottles of

champagne.

INT. PARK HYATT POOL - EVENING

Water splashes as Charlotte dives into the pool (in a one-

piece bathing suit) as the sun goes down.

INT. PARK HYATT HALL - EVENING

Leaving in her robe, Charlotte runs into Bob, in his robe,

going to the pool.

He watches her go.

INT. BOB'S ROOM - EVENING

As Bob opens his door to his room, a FedEx package falls in

his path.

He opens it - large carpet swatches fall out with a note

"BOB - WHICH ONE DO YOU WANT FOR YOUR STUDY? I LIKE THE

BURGUNDY, BUT WHATEVER YOU WANT. LOVE, L"

He looks at them for a second, they all look the same, and

why is she sending these? He puts them down.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

The elaborate chiming doorbell rings.

Charlotte opens the door to see Bob. He's wearing an orange

camouflage T-shirt. She looks at his shirt, suppressing a

smile.

He goes into the bathroom to change it. He comes out with it

on inside out so it's just an orange T-shirt.

He asks her to cut the label out for him. She goes to find

some scissors. He picks up A Soul's Search: Finding Your

True Calling audio-book box.

She returns with the hotel room sewing kit.

She smiles, busted, but doesn't say anything as she cuts his

shirt label with little hotel sewing-kit scissors.

She slips on her shoes on to leave.

INT. TOKYO BAR - NIGHT

All white nightclub, lit with black lights so it seems to

glow in the dark, with the booming sound of helicopters.

JAPANESE GALLAGER BROTHERS walk by.

Bob watches Charlotte as Charlie, in a crazy outfit, hugs

her.  Charlotte tries to talk to Bob over the loud music.

They shake hands.

Bob looks over at some SKINNY GUY in huge glasses smiling at

them. Charlie hands them some drinks.

A young SHY GUY with a shaved head smiles at her, and takes

her picture.

A JAPANESE KRAFTWERK COVER-BAND plays Trans Europa Express.

Some people at the bar buy drinks for Bob and insist on

drinking with him.

Bob and Charlotte look over as Charlie gets into some problem

with the BARTENDER.  The Bartender gets mad and starts

shooting a real-looking BB gun at him. Orange bullets fly

through the air. They all rush out of there.

EXT. BAR - NIGHT

Bob and Charlotte try to get past the crowd at the entrance.

A big BOUNCER stops them and is yelling fast Japanese at

him.

The crowd parts as the Bartender emerges shooting his BB

gun, and Bob and Charlotte run for it.

BB GUN CHASE -

The Bartender climbs on a car, threatening them from above.

Bob covers Charlotte as they duck behind the car.

They make a run for it, ducking into a pachinko parlor.

INT.PACHINKO PARLOR - NIGHT

Bob and Charlotte run past the blinking machines, and

gamblers, to another door to the street.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Bob spots a cab and they run to it, seeing Charlie now

throwing bottles in the direction of the bartender.

Bob and Charlotte get in the cab.

INT. CAB - NIGHT

Charlotte hits her head as they get in. Bob yells to the

driver to go, but he doesn't understand.

Through the windshield they see the Bartender and sidekick

coming with baseball bats.

They hear a bang on the door and Charlie hops in. He makes

sure she is ok and shouts something to the Driver, and they

speed away.

INT. KARAOKE BAR - NIGHT

Charlie, in his flashy outfit, sings "God Save the Queen"

into the Karaoke mic. He rolls his r's just like Johnny

Rotten.

Charlotte laughs and loves watching Charlie. They're other

friends wear the different color wigs they provide at this

place. There are big bottles of beer and sake.  They are all

pretty formal. Bambi tries to talk to Charlotte with a big

grin, he can barely speak English.

He tries wigs on her. He puts a light pink wig on her and

beams. Bob smokes and watches.

She smiles a lovable smile at Bambi.

Charlie and Charlotte sings "Brass in Pocket" by The

Pretenders ("you're special, so special..."), everyone is

drunk now, as they all sing along at the chorus. WOMEN keep

refilling the glasses.

Mr. Valentine sings a popular slow heartfelt Japanese song

that everyone knows and sings along to. Charlotte and Bob

look at each other, it is very foreign, but Bob likes being

there with Charlotte and her friends.

She flips through a big binder of songs.

Bob sings "I fall to Pieces" to Charlotte. Charlie and

everyone cheers for him.

Beer pitchers are replaced. Charlie starts singing "Angle".

The little room is fxlled with smoke, Charlotte makes her

way to the door to get some air.

INT. KARAOKE BAR HALLWAY - NIGHT

Taking a break from the crowded and hot Karaoke room,

Charlotte sits for a break alone on a bench in the bright

hallway. It is quiet with just the muffled sound of music

from the Karaoke room. She's wearing a pink geisha wig. Bob

sits down next to her.

Charlotte lights his cigarette with some crazy Japanese light-

up lighter.

She leans her head back - it's getting too heavy.

She looks at his hands.

He nods.

INT. NOBU'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

NOBU, a cool skinny stoner guy in a Hawaiian shirt, plays

phsycadellic records in his seventies hippie surfer-pad.

His JAPANESE  GIRLFRIEND, who looks like a 60's pin-up,

pours cold sake.

Bob is  handed a ridiculously big bong.

Charlie is drunk and taking polaroids.

Nobu, really stoned, talks to Bob about surfing.

A SHORT GUY with thick glasses introduces himself to

Charlotte, extending his hand.

Charlie takes pictures of Charlotte and HIROMIX, a sexy

Japanese girl, posing on a sheepskin run. They are being

hammy for Charlie who loves it.

Bob walks up and is amused watching her, she sees him and

gets embarrassed.

DECADENT TOKYO PARTY - NIGHT

Hiromix dances  Charlotte dances with Hans - she looks sweaty

but beautiful... Bob dances with his eyes closed, really

into it, in the midst of all of them... the song "I Feel Too

Young" plays.

INT. NOBU'S ENTRY - NIGHT

Bob and Charlotte are leaving Nobu's. She's wearing Bob's

jacket.

Bob takes Charlotte's arm carefully just as she bangs her

head walking into the glass door - it makes a loud thud.

She nods. Bob looks back at Charlie who is watching- she's

fine.

He leads her into a waiting cab.

EXT. TOKYO - NIGHT

POV from cab - Tokyo neon blurs by. It looks beautiful.

INT. CAB - NIGHT

Charlotte looks at the neon going by. She looks over at Bob,

her eyelids are too heavy for her.

INT. HOTEL HALL - NIGHT

Bob carries a very drunk Charlotte to her room. Her purse

dangling from his arm.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S ROOM - NIGHT

He puts her on her bed. He takes her shoes off for her and

pulls a blanket over her.

He looks at her lying on the bed.

She opens her eyes to smile at him. He wants to kiss her,

but he leaves.

INT.HOTEL HALL - NIGHT

He walks down the empty hall, not wanting to leave her.

As he goes he looks at various trays of leftover room service

in the hallway.

INT. BOB'S ROOM - NIGHT

Bob comes back to his room, tripping over the carpet samples.

He makes a phone call from bed. He's still a little drunk

and thinking about his night out in Tokyo.

He hangs up.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S ROOM - MORNING

Charlotte can-'t get out of bed. She looks at the clock-

it's 10 a.m.  She picks up the phone.

INT. BOB'S ROOM - MORNING

Bob (still in camouflage T-shirt from last night) answers

the phone by his bed.

C.U. Charlotte's feet on her bed

C.U. her hand wraps the phone cord around her fingers.

INT. HOTEL RESTAURANT - DAY

They sit in the bright light. She squints and drinks a Bloody

Mary. Bob is distant.

She looks across at two middle-aged MID-WESTERN WOMEN talking

about plastic surgery, you can't hear them, but can tell as

they gesture and one pulls her eye lids up.

Charlotte looks at another table by the elaborate buffet and

sees the redhead Singer having breakfast with the rest of

Sausalito.

They don't know what to say. Somehow it's too intimate having

breakfast. She eats her breakfast aware of her every movement.

C.U. - her POV of soft scrambled eggs.

EXT. GOLF COURSE - DAY

In the distance, Bob swings on a perfect golf course.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Charlotte lies in bed awake. The clock says its 4 a.m.

Finally she gives up on trying to sleep, and turns the light

on. In John's old T-shirt and Ugg boots, she goes to the

couch, looks at some strange pastry with an elaborate

presentation left by the hotel.

She picks up a magazine, but she's already looked at it a

few times before. She hears something and goes over to the

door. On her way, she passes her red T. Anthony suitcase

overflowing with stuff that looks like a bomb went off in

it.

A HOTEL MESSAGE envelope is slipped under the door. She opens

it to see a typed note from the operator:

"From: Mr. Harris. Message: Are you awake?"

She smiles like she's gotten a valentine.

INT. BOB'S ROOM - NIGHT

Bob opens the door, Charlotte's standing there trying to

look casual, she's happy to see him (she's put some pants on

and flip flops instead of her dumb looking Ugg boots).

She knocks into a low table, bumping her knee as she comes

in.

Bob pours some cold sake, smoothly.

Bob and Charlotte watch La Dolce Vita with Japanese subtitles

on the TV.

Anita Ekberg holds the kitten on T.V.

Charlotte gets up to pour more sake.

She picks up and looks at a prescription bottle on his night

stand and reads the label : Lipitor.

She shrugs.

PAN the view of Tokyo at night as we hear their conversation:

Charlotte and Bob lie a few feet apart on the bed.

They are starting to get tired.

She looks over at him. He does like her.

They fall asleep dressed, on top of the sheets, on opposite

sides of the bed.

EXT.STREET BASKETBALL COURT - DAY

Full of life, Bob plays basketball with some local guys.

All over the court, and towering over the other players, Bob

dominates the game.

INT. BOB'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Bob looks at himself in the bathroom mirror, he feels his

stubble and sees that it's turning grey.

He opens the hotel shaving kit. He squirts shaving cream

from the child-size can. Even the razor is small. He covers

his face with shaving cream when the phone rings.

He hangs up and shaves.

INT. HOTEL GROUND FLOOR LOBBY - DAY

Bob gets out of the elevator- the Suntory group is waiting

for him. He ducks behind a wall and sneaks out a side entrance

of the hotel.

EXT. PARK HYATT - DAY

Bob comes out of the hotel into the sunlight. The street is

crowded with MOTORCYCLE GANGS going by, one waves a big flag.

Bob watches the strange scene in the street for a moment,

and then makes his way past.

EXT. DAKINYAMA - DAY

He walks down a little street in a more old-fashioned

neighborhood. He's wearing new techno sneakers. He makes a

call on his cell phone.

A light rain starts as he looks at a fax from Charlotte with

a map she's drawn and tries to figure out where he is - there

are no street signs.

EXT/INT. ICHICAN SUSHI - DAY

Bob finally finds the small restaurant. The automatic door

opens for him, and Charlotte, at the bar with the cute chubby

SUSHI CHEF, turns to Bob happy to see him. He is disheveled

from the rain and adorable.

He sits down next to Charlotte, she pours him a beer and

orders for him.

A perky recording voice says "Kornichiwa!" from his pocket.

He pulls a pink Hello Kitty watch from his pocket.

The Sushi Chef gives him perfect little pieces of sushi on a

banana leaf.

Charlotte takes a bite of a piece - but it won't break, so

she has to stuff the whole thing in her mouth, embarrassed.

Bob makes fun of her gracelessness.

They have lunch, he makes her laugh.

He looks down at her feet in flip flops, her toe is purple.

She slips her shoe off and shows it to him- her middle toe

is black and blue.

She enjoys the sympathy.

She smiles at him.

EXT. DAIKANYAMA STREET - DAY

Bob tries to get a taxi, finally one stops and they get in.

He tries to explain "hospital", he does pantomime, draws a

first aid cross, but the DRIVER doesn't understand. Charlotte

is enjoying Bob's effort.

Finally he finds a Park Hyatt matchbook and calls the hotel

number.

She transfers call, it rings.

He tells the Driver who looks at him funny. Bob says it again-

faster, with a Japanese accent. The driver nods excitedly

and drives off.

INT.HOSPITAL LOBBY - DAY

Bob and Charlotte walk in, looking around at where to go.

Bob talks to a woman at the desk to explain what they need.

INT. HOSPITAL 2ND FLOOR - DAY

Bob takes a seat in waiting area as Charlotte goes into a

little room with a number on it.

Bob waits next to a 100 year old lady.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Charlotte stands alone barefoot on a little box, wearing a

lead apron, as a MAN and ASSISTANT X-ray different angles of

her foot.

INT. HOSPITAL GIFT SHOP - DAY

Bob looks around at all the Japanese gift stuff, and buys a

little stuffed bunny. His phone rings as he's paying for it.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Charlotte's foot X-rays are displayed on a big light box. An

older DOCTOR talks about them in Japanese to his younger

ASSISTANT as he wraps Charlotte's toes together. She doesn't

know what they're talking about.

INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - DAY

Charlotte comes out where Bob waits with the little stuffed

bunny.

EXT. PARK HYATT - LATE AFTERNOON

Bob and Charlotte arrive back at the massive hotel, they

stroll in casually, she is carrying the stuffed rabbit in

her arm.

INT. HOTEL SPA BATH - EVENING

Bob reclines in the big Japanese wooden tub, steam rises as

he is turning red. His phone rings. He dries his hands quickly

to reach it before it stops ringing.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Bob rides in the back of a cab.

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - NIGHT

Bob's cab pulls up at an empty office building.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - NIGHT

Bob looks at a fax from Charlotte with a map, wondering if

he's in the right place. It's quiet and looks like a generic

office building.

He goes in the little metal elevator, and the door opens on

the 8th floor onto a little nightclub you would have never

thought was there.

INT. ORANGE NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT

Lights strobe and Peaches' seedy "Fuck the Pain Away" booms

through the speakers.

Tan JAPANESE STRIPPERS with platinum hair dance and hang

from a pole on a little platform.

Bob sits alone on a brown ultra suede couch feeling out of

place and empty.

He looks over at a table of young AMERICAN INVESTMENT BROKERS.

He wishes he wasn't there, but tries to seem comfortable.

Charlotte shows up with Charlie and the other guys. She sits

down next to him, and gives him an 'are you going to kill

me?' look.

He looks at her like it's been forever. She smiles for

forgiveness.

They look over and see a WEIRD GUY in the corner getting a

lap dance, they look at each other, sharing the joke of the

place, but both uncomfortable about the sexuality of it.

Through a beaded curtain, Charlie and Bambi get lap dances

in a dark corner of pillows.

Charlotte looks at Bob.

EXT. TOKYO STREETS - NIGHT

Bob and Charlotte go up to a cab, but the driver refuses

them. They don't know why, but just make their way down an

empty side street. Little plastic cherry blossom decorations

hang above them.

She puts a coin in a vending machine and takes a cold sake

"one-cup". A tiny brad Pitt head smiles at her next to an

iced coffee.

They keep walking, small figures on a little empty street.

INT. PARK HYATT LOBBY - NIGHT

As they make their way back, they pass a lounge off the lobby.

It's late, it's pretty empty,  a housekeeper vacuums and

just a SLEEPING MAN sits in the back of the lounge, and a

snuggled up romantic JAPANESE COUPLE sit close to: Kelly,

the blonde actress, singing to them.

She stands facing them with a karaoke mic singing "Nobody

Does It Better" with all her heart.

Bob and Charlotte look at each other and keep walking (trying

to be invisible).

FADE IN:

INT.CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Charlotte lies in bed. She picks up a photo next to the bed

as she dials the phone.-

The picture is of her and John on their honeymoon. The phone

answers - it's a weird Japanese recording.

INT. TRAIN - DAY

Charlotte watches the Japanese countryside go by out her

window.

EXT. KYOTO - DAY

Charlotte walks through a beautiful garden. She's a small

figure in the landscape.

She approaches a temple where she stops to watch a wedding

procession. A young bride and groom in traditional kimono

walk under a parasol with their family.

Charlotte looks as- the nervous, young bride clutches her

mother's hand. The young groom walks along with them.

Charlotte is moved by the whole scene, the beauty of the

temple and the wedding party. Her eyes well up.

She walks up a narrow path, surrounded by red maple leaves.

At the top of a little hill, she comes up to a shrine.

At its entrance she sees a tree covered in little white pieces

of paper tied to its branches. She sees Japanese people

writing on the paper and tying them to the tree. Charlotte

writes her wish on a paper and ties it to a branch.

INT. T.V. STUDIO - DAY

Exciting music plays as the talk/game show starts.

Bob, in an elegant suit, goes out to meet the HOST.

A TRANSLATOR translates.

The Translator translates - four sentences longer and with

added enthusiasm.

After a few questions the Host excitedly announces something

to the AUDIENCE in Japanese. They scream, the lights flash,

Bob has no idea what's going on.

A cloud of smoke reveals the IRON CHEF, with feathered hair,

wearing an 18th century waistcoat.  A large red chef hat is

placed on Bob's head.

Bob looks around as a counter is pulled up to him and now

Bob and the Iron Chef are at dueling counters. The Host barks

instructions in Japanese, an apron with a stuffed animal

lobster on it is tied around Bob, the crowd cheers - there's

no way out.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Bob rides in the back of the presidential, looking out the

window at the city.

He pulls a polaroid out of his pocket and looks at it. It's

Charlotte, peering over her shoulder with a little smile,

from their sake-drenched night at Nobu's compound.

INT. PARK HYATT BAR - NIGHT

Melodramatic '70s Japanese music plays. Bob sits alone, hating

himself, at the bar. The redheaded Jazz Singer takes a break,

and a seat next to him.

INT. BOB'S ROOM - MORNING

In the harsh-morning light, Bob wakes up in his bed.

He hears the Jazz Singer singing in the shower "Midnight at

the Oasis".

Her red mane of hair passes frame as she ushers in room

service. She seems to have taken over the whole room. He

wants it all to go away. She walks off to the bathroom and

there's a knock at the door. Bob rushes to get it before she

can.

He opens the door a crack, Charlotte looking sweet, is

standing there. Her hair is back in a pony-tail. Bob's just

wearing a towel around his waist, and his hair is sticking

up.

He's not in the mood, he looks at her like he already hates

himself, doesn't need more help.

The singer starts singing again in the background.

Charlotte gives Bob a look.

He watches Charlotte walk away down the beige hall.

EXT. TOKYO STREETS - DAY

Bob is walking down the crowded street looking for Charlotte,

when his cell phone rings.

A little girl's voice shouts "No!" in the background.

In the background the daughter calls for her Mommy over and

over and a dog starts barking.

EXT. ICHICAN SUSHI RESTAURANT - DAY

Charlotte, with sunglasses on, leans against the wall as Bob

approaches.

She goes with him.

INT. SHABU SHABU RESTAURANT - DAY

Bob and Charlotte are seated at a big booth in a corny Shabu

Shabu restaurant.

Bob looks at her like- don't make it worse.

She scowls at him.

The waitress brings them drinks- she pours beer slowly, and

turns on a pot on the table to cook their food.

Charlotte looks at the menu - it is filled with photos of

different trays of meat. The waitress doesn't speak English.

They have trouble ordering, but point to a picture on the

menu.

He makes some small talk, she is bugged.

He orders the drinks.

"This is the End" by The Doors starts playing on the stereo.

The waitress brings two huge trays of sliced raw beef. Steam

rises from the pot on the table.

The song ends, and another Doors song comes on.

They look across the table, over the steam and meat, at each

other- the whole thing is awful.

INT.CHARLOTTE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

In the darkness, under covers, Charlotte is woken up by a

loud fire alarm.

EXT. PARK HYATT - NIGHT

The fire alarm booms as the hotel guests and staff hurry out

of the hotel.

Amidst the crowd of Hotel guests in their pajamas, Charlotte

finds Bob- he's wearing a kimono and slippers. She's in boxer

shorts and an undershirt and slippers.

He laughs.

She looks down at his feet stuffed into the little hotel

slippers.

INT. PARK HYATT BAR - NIGHT

and Charlotte, still in their pajamas, sit at their usual

spot at the bar, with the bartender, drinking cold sake. She

lights two cigarettes and passes one to him.

A NEW JAZZ BAND is now playing. The SINGER is full of

enthusiasm as they start their stint at the Park Hyatt.

He sings "Where or When" with all his heart.

Now, old-timers there, Bob and Charlotte look at each other

and chuckle.

Bob and Charlotte sit there together.

(alt Charlotte dialog: I don't know it just doesn't, reality

changes things...and we can't stay here forever)

He looks over at her.

The singer continues Where or When, as they sit there

together, the view sparkling.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Bob and Charlotte, drunk in the elevator.

He nods, she pushes 54 for him and 56 for herself.

They look at each other across the empty elevator, both

leaning against the walls.

The elevator stops at 54, he leans in to kiss her good-night.

They kiss like you would on the cheek- but it's closer to

their mouths. The door shuts- he missed his floor.

The elevator continues up, and stops on her floor. They kiss

good-night again and she gets out before the door closes.

He watches the door close on her as she makes her way down

the long beige hall.

INT. CHARLOTTE'S ROOM - DAY

A fax comes through the machine in the empty room.

IT'S A NOTE AND CUTE DRAWING FROM JOHN -

SEE YOU ON SATURDAY, I MISS YOU..."

INT. PARK HYATT LOBBY LOUNGE - DAY

A sexy EXECUTIVE WOMAN asks Bob for a light. He looks at her

great legs as he lights her cigarette. He looks around,

keeping an eye out for Charlotte. The group of commercial

people arrive to see him off.

He excuses himself for a moment and goes to a phone on a

little table in the corner.

Bob picks up the house phone.

Traditional Japanese music plays on hold.

Bob gets the room voice-mail.

He hangs up, feeling lame.

INT. HOTEL RECEPTION -DAY

Bob with his bags tries to call again. The commercial people

and hotel staff crowd around to help him, asking about his

stay.

A member of the hotel staff brings him an envelope on a little

silver tray.

Miss Kawasaki gives him some gifts from their company in

traditional Japanese wrapping, he doesn't know what to do

with them and has to carry them.

The Executive Woman from the bar walks up to him. He hangs

up the phone.

She looks at him like, we could have had some fun.

He sees Charlotte come out of the elevator.

He rushes over to Charlotte. She looks at his bag.

She hands him his jacket.

She waits for him to say something more. He wants to tell

her he loves her, that she should come with him.

The concierge tells him his car is here.

She walks away.

A hotel manager asks Bob about his luggage, another asks if

he had a pleasant stay. Charlotte gets in the elevator to go

out, the doors close on her back.

EXT. PARK HYATT - DAY

It's bright outside the main entrance. A presidential pulls

up and the automatic door opens. Bob squints as the Bellboy

in white gloves slowly loads his luggage into the trunk.

INT. CAR - DAY

In the backseat, Bob leans back on the little doily.

The car pulls away.

Around the corner, he looks down a crowded alley and sees

Charlotte's blonde hair.

The DRIVER, wearing white cloth gloves, pulls the car over

slowly. Bob tries to open the door'99 it won't open, he has

to wait for the automatic doors to open for him (slowly).

EXT. TOKYO STREETS - DAY

Bob gets out and rushes down the street to where he saw

Charlotte. The street is crowded with JAPANESE PEOPLE, and

different colored umbrellas, (it's sunny out with a light

rain).

Music blasts from speakers on the street, and there is some

promo going on with GIRLS handing out little cologne samples.

Bob looks around for her, but only sees dark hair, umbrellas,

and super tan JAPANESE KIDS.

In the distance an umbrella moves to reveal Charlotte.

But she can't hear him over the loudspeaker. He rushes to

her.

C.U. she turns and we see she is crying.

The music swells. He embraces her, holding her close to him

in the crowd.

He kisses her, hugs her good-bye.

He holds her close.

Charlotte watches Bob as he reaches his car, he turns and

looks at her.

She smiles at him, and is lost in the crowd.

Bob gets into his car.

Charlotte walks with the crowd as they go on their way.

INT. CAR - DAY

Back in the Presidential, alone, Bob leans against the little

doily.  They drive off.

He looks out the window, Bob's happy he's going home, he's

happy he came to Tokyo.

Bob's P.O.V.-  Tokyo goes past his window.

