MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                             6.

Harry and Adele moving toward the parking structure:

As Harry and Adele approach the passenger door of the

van:

A bus stop poster advertising a current knife-kill movie         *

entitled Blood and Kisses. A woman in jeopardy, with the

obligatory expression of helpless terror on her face,

flees from a menacing male figure wielding a bloodied

knife.

Joan is stopped at a signal, frowning up at the malevo-

lent message on the bus stop poster. The light changes.          *

A CAR HORN breaks her disturbed reverie and she proceeds

through the intersection.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/3/91                               8.

The Fingerprinter interrupts:

As he moves to the hallway leading to the bedroom:

Helen hobbles INTO VIEW, seating herself in a nearby

chair.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                               9.

Now thoroughly paranoid, she frowns down at the carpet,

scanning her memory for the commission of some past

offense.

Her mind is still off searching for enemies and she

fails to respond:

There is a light knock at the partially opened front

door.

ON ATTRACTIVE RED-HAIRED WOMAN (ANTONIA "ANDY" ELLERMAN)

stepping into the room:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                                 10.

As Joan gets up and moves over to Andy, he glances at

his watch and exits to the bedroom.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                               11.

Melvenos and the Fingerprinter re-enter:                            *

You know what he said to me?        We're going to be leaving.

Melvenos and the Fingerprinter step out into the hallway,           *

with Joan following:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                             12.

They start down the hallway and Joan addresses their

backs:

Helen, now captive to Andy's epic, is seated next to her

on the couch, attempting to listen politely to a tale

without an end:

Joan has reentered the room and approaches them.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/3/91                               13.

Joan sinks down into a chair, exhausted:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                              14.        *

Duke lies on the floor, watching Harry. He stands at a

cork board on the wall behind his desk, adding a clipping

announcing the Fourth Victim of a local serial killer

called the Westside Slasher, to an assortment of other

items on violent crimes. As he does:

JUNE HUFF, enters from a door of the rear of the office.

Moving past Harry's desk, she picks up a folded newspaper

page, continues to an upholstered bench beneath a window,

lies down and begins reading.

He sits down at his desk and begins going through his

drawers, looking for something. She lowers the paper

and looks over at him:

She goes back to reading.

The PHONE on his desk begins to RING:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                             15.        *

She gets up and moves over to the desk:

She picks up the receiver and speaks into it:

She hangs up.

He goes back to reading. June returns to the bench, lies

down again and starts grumbling:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                              18.        *

It's my understanding            Si, lunes, lunes.

that Socorro lived here,

otherwise, I would've

made other plans.

Joan straightens up, sighing angrily and looking up at

the house:

The low-rider moves down the driveway and as it disap-

pears onto the street, Joan moves to an electric box

atop a metal column at the edge of the driveway. She

presses the button and looks at the gates. They remain

open. She steps over to the gates and tries to close them

manually. The locking device fails to engage and a

portion of it falls off into the bushes.

ANOTHER ANGLE

As she leans   down to look for the fallen part,   a pickup

truck can be   seen parked down the street. The    back of the

driver's head   (BUTCH GABLE) can be seen and on   the side

panel of the   truck are the words "Canyon Tree   Surgeons."

ANOTHER ANGLE

Giving up on the gates, Joan turns and moves with evident

reluctance up the driveway, passing a three-car garage in

which her Mercedes and another car hidden under a trap can

be seen.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                           19.

TRAILER MUSIC. Joan is asleep on the bed. Lying beside

her is a fireplace poker and a mallet meat tenderizer.

Across the dark room, a trailer of Blood and Kisses plays

on the TV screen. The scantily-clad woman previously

seen on the bus stop poster backs away from a steadily-         *

stalking camera. Her eyes widen in the familiar

expression of helpless terror and as she opens her mouth

to scream:

Joan flinches and sits up. She turns the TV OFF, which          *

descends into a wooden console. At that moment, there           *

is a VOICE from outside the bedroom window:

In the vicinity of the bedroom window, a man in work            *

clothes can be seen pounding on the glass as he continues       *

yelling:

She calls loudly out to him:

He moves to the glass facade and peers inside, looking          *

for the source of the voice:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                              20A.

She stands off to the side, repeating the command and

studiously writing it down in a small notebook.

He takes hold of the dog's muzzle, lifting the lips to

reveal the large scimitar-like canines:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                               22.

He pauses to light a cigarette, making a quick, reflexive

appraisal of her contours as he does:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                               23.

He scans the grounds for signs of something we as yet

know nothing of:

HARRY

She holds Duke on a short lead, and as they move along a

wooded area of the grounds, he leans in close, directing

her in confidential tones:

As they walk, Harry glances about, impressed with the

appearance of wealth inherent in the house and grounds:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/29/91                                   24.        *

They move forward a few feet, when Harry, now slightly

behind Joan, makes a covert hand signal in the direction

of some trees several yards ahead of them.

June, in a padded attack suit, suddenly jumps out from

behind the trees, assuming an aggressive stance and

emitting a repertory of menacing sounds.

Duke responds immediately, lunging toward June, pulling

Joan along with him. June screams and starts to run

away. Harry moves after Joan, yelling ahead to June:

Seeing the dog still in pursuit, June ignores the command

and as Duke continues to tow Joan behind him:

He hurries up behind her, grabbing her around the waist

to anchor her and addressing the dog:

The dog instantly assumes a sitting position. Joan, out

of breath and exhilarated with fear and excitement, turns

to Harry:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/29/91                              25.

at the desk making out a check while Harry, in the b.g.,

takes in a series of photographs on the den wall of some

of the highlights in the life of Andy Ellerman. (See

Appendix)

She lays the pen aside, studying him with evident

interest as he looks at a photograph of Andy and a man

on a hunting safari in Africa.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                            26.

Feeling slighted, she watches him move to a picture of

Andy descending the steps of a plane with Layls watching         *

her on the tarmac.                                               *

He leans in close to a photograph of Andy in a bikini.

June, in the b.g., still in the attack jacket, leaning

sullenly against the van and watching Harry work.

As she gestures toward June, Harry takes hold of her

hand, looking earnestly at her:

as Harry unzips the attack jacket:

He steps past her and goes to the van:

As he opens the back panel:

He closes the back panel and as he moves past her:

On his way to the driver's door:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/20/91                           29.

(ABOVE MUSIC FAINTLY OVER:) Once again Joan is stopped

at a signal. Aware of someone watching her, she turns to

look through the window.

A MAN in an adjacent car is staring at her, and

momentarily addresses her with a peculiar request:

She quickly faces front and as the light changes,

accelerates through the intersecion.

(SHOT 5/16)                                                     *

Conducting the soprano section of the "Et Resurrexit,"

accompanied by the pianist.

ON REST OF CHORALE

The previously seen Eddy Revere among them.

ON JOAN AND OTHER SOLOISTS

Seated on a lower level of the tiered chairs arranged in

a semi-circle around Lewie.

CLOSER ON JOAN

Her eyes fixed on Lewie intensely perusing him for any

signs of malevolence.

HER POV OF LEWIE

As he addresses the sopranos over their voices.

ON SOPRANO CHORUS

singing and their various reactions to the above

remark.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/20/91                            30.        *

ON DUKE

He lies on the lawn, secured to the base of a tree by a

long leash.

Eddy moves INTO VIEW and stepping over to Duke, leans

down as though he intends to pet him:

He turns to see Joan approaching with a paper cup filled

with water.

He steps back from the dog as Joan leans down to give

Duke some water from the cup.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/20/91                          30A.        *

She pats Duke on the head and stands up:

A WOMAN chorus member sticks her head out the stage door:

He moves quickly toward the rehearsal room. Immediately

afraid of his displeasure, she calls after him:

Before disappearing into the studio, he makes a gesture

acknowledging her capitulation.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/20/91                            34/35.

(Japanese "MOOD MUSIC" over), featuring a morbid, nearly

suicidal saxophone solo:) John and Harry seated at a

table. She is well past the loosening effects of a

second glass of wine, is not unaware that Harry is looking

at her:

He lights a cigarette. As she reaches to her glass, his

eyes follow the motion of her hands. She looks in

front the window:

She lifts her glass, takes a sip, then sets it back

down:

She rolls her eyes, sighing impatiently.

Her gaze meets Helen's, who, misconstruing the situation,

makes an "OK" sign, delivering her semiotic sanction to

the happy reunion in the hallway.

He pulls back, narrowing his eyes at her:

Outside Joan and Harry dine. The patio is lit only by

candles on the table. Socorro enters the living room

with a tray holding a coffee urn and cup and closely

tailed by Duke. She moves toward the patio.

Socorro sets the tray down and departs for the kitchen

with Duke again falling in behind her.

Joan begins to pour their coffee, glancing inside the

house to see...

Socorro turning lights out while the indefatigable Duke

tries to mount her. Uttering some impatient complaint,

she swipes at him with a napkin and the two move OUT OF

VIEW THROUGH the kitchen door.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                             46A.

The BEEP is followed by Andy's voice, in some waning

stage of sedation, coming from the phone speaker:

Harry stands scowling for effect, his arm around Joan.    A

MALE ADMISSION'S CLERK sits at a computer behind a

counter, keying up a file, then reading if off the

screen:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                          52.

He turns away from them and back to the computer.

Joan wanders anxiously around the waiting room. In the

b.g., Harry can be seen at one of the pay phones. Seeing

him hang up, she stops pacing and looks toward him.

POV: He approaches, answering her expectant look with a

shake of the head and the disheartening news:

Harry and Joan, moving toward the hospital parking lot:

He stops walking and takes a hold of her hand:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                               54.

He puts an arm around her, speaking in reassuring tones:

reading "Sixth Victim   of Westside Slasher." The ANGLE

SHIFTS to reveal Harry   seated at a table next to a plate

glass window, reading   the above paper. The view is

inclusive of The House   of Bliss across the street.

He lowers the paper as a waitress (VITA) appears with a

Silex of coffee. She sits down opposite him, refilling

his cup and addressing him in a familiar manner:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                               55.

Under the following, June can be seen crossing the street

from the House of Bliss and approaching the coffee shop:

Harry's attention is drawn to June, tapping on the

window.

June, mouthing "There's some guy over there wants to see

you." Then she gestures to a Continental Town Car in the

parking lot next to The House of Bliss.

Harry stands back, uneasily regarding the smoked windows

and the sun flaring off the glossy surfaces of the car.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/9/91                                56.

Presently, the passenger door opens and L.N. MONCRIEF, a

barely discernible presence in a suit blending in with

the dark interior of the car, addresses him by name:

ON JUNE, standing on the sidewalk next to The House of

Bliss, looking at Harry and as he disappears into the

car, she turns and goes inside the building.

The CAMERA makes a SLOW CIRCUIT around the Continental,

taking in an aerial protruding from the trunk, and below

it a license plate with the word "TYPHON" on it. The                *

MOVE CONTINUES, briefly SCANNING a driver with a nasty

recidivist face, seated behind the wheel, and as we come

full circle, the passenger door opens and Harry gets out.

He slams the door and steps back, angrily glaring at the

car. The hydraulic window opens and Moncrief looks out

at him:

He takes note of the driver (STURGE) coming around the

front of the car. He stops a few feet off and unbuttons

his jacket, revealing the cross-strap of a shoulder

holster.

Harry steps over to the window, leans down and

communicates in more politic tones:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/9/91                                57.

Moncrief reaches into a briefcase, takes out a folder and

makes reference to its contents as he speaks:

Harry stands up, leaving the vulnerable area of his

stomach framed in the passenger window. When he leans

back down, a deeply conflicted expression is apparent on

his face:

He takes a voucher from the folder and sets the file

aside:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/9/91                               58.

He holds the voucher out to Harry who avoids looking at

it:

Harry stands in the parking lot, watching as the Con-

tinental drives off. He starts to move toward The House

of Bliss, then stops and opens the voucher, braving a

look at it.

CLOSEUP OF TYPHON CORPORATION CHECK                                *

signed by L.N. Moncrief and made out to the sum of

$15,000.

Joan's car pulls onto the street leading to Andy's house.

Her gaze is drawn to a pickup parked on the street and,

as she passes the vehicles she turns to look at:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                             59.        *

POV - BUTCH GABLE

sits in the pickup. A pile of recently-trimmed tree

branches litter the ground near the truck. He turns his

head to look at her.

Joan gets out of    the Mercedes and opens the gates. As

she moves back to    the driver's door, she glances at

Butch, then gets    quickly into the car. She drives in

through the gates    and once again gets out to close them

behind her.

ON BUTCH

He watches sullenly as her car disappears through the

gates, then lifts a can of beer to his mouth and drinks.

Joan searches through the file cabinets and not finding

what she's looking for, goes through a similar course

of procedure with the desk drawers.

ANGLE - UPSTAIRS

On an upstairs landing, she searches through some drawers

and cupboards. Then spotting Socorro on the level below:

ANGLE PAST JOAN TO SOCORRO BELOW

As Socorro comes to the landing, Joan indicates one of

the open desk drawers:

Socorro steps closer and glancing into the the now

disorderly contents of the drawer, shakes her head

defensively:

He begins pushing the paraphernalia around on his desk:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                               62.

Joan looks down at the floor, attempting a drollery:

As she crosss to the door, Harry stands up:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                              66A.

A COMMERCIAL comes on. June hands him the remote and he

sits down on the couch, channeling to a BASEBALL GAME:

She resumes eating. Then, desirous of     drawing his atten-

tion, she fixes her gaze on the table    top and smiles

pensively, making the assumption that    he is looking at

her. When no response is forthcoming,     she attempts a

verbal solicitation:

He looks over at her:

He lays his fork down and tries to make an awkward and

difficult excursion into the truth:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/1/91                               79.

Socorro steps INTO VIEW, addressing Joan with great

excitement:

She motions Joan to follow and disappears into the

kitchen.

Joan and Harry, looking toward the television set.

Socorro stands next to the screen, pointing at herself,

a small figure near the front door of Andy's house. In

the f.g. a television REPORTER addresses the camera:

Harry coughs loudly as Moncrief appears, standing outside

a government office building, encircled by a picket of

microphones attached to a number of floating hands.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/1/91                                80.        *

She turns contemptuously back to   the screen. The

Reporter now stands in the f.g.   of a three-story build-

ing. SLIGHTLY OUT OF FOCUS, but    discernible over its

entrance, are the words: Monroe    Park Center.

As the Reporter continues, Joan moves closer to the TV.

She points to the sign over the building's entrance:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 5/1/91                              81.

She looks quickly back to the screen -- a commercial

comes on.                                                         *

Without waiting for his answer, she strides across the

room:

As she moves OUT OF VIEW into the living room, he turns           *

to Socorro:                                                       *

Joan comes out of the bedroom with her purse and jacket

and with Harry following, crosses the living room:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                              82.

They disappear out the front door.

Joan comes out the front door, Harry moving along beside

her, as she moves crossing briskly toward the garage:

She begins moving a little less purposively than before:

They stop in front of the garage where Joan's car is

parked:

She nods.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                          84.

He angrily folds his arms across his chest, assuming a

sullen silence for a moment. The traffic has come to a

grid-lock stop, raising their anxiety levels:

He suddenly opens the door, gets out and moves to the ax

handle. Joan watches as he makes several unsuccessful

attempts to pull the ax out of the hood of the car.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                            85.

He gives up and moves back to the passenger door, passing

a man in an adjacent car, looking curiously from the ax

handle to him:

He gets into the Mercedes and slams the door.

Joan moves quickly through the parking lot and onto a

walkway leading to the hospital entrance. Harry,

trailing behind, calls up to her:

She stops walking and as he moves up beside her, looks

defiantly at him:

REMOTE ANGLE ON HARRY AND JOAN

He takes her by the hand and leads the way over the

grounds toward the rear quarters of the hospital.

ON Harry and Joan, as he tries several locked doors

before finding one that gives entrance into the hospital.

Joan is now wearing Andy's hospital gown, while Andy is

hastily buttoning herself into Joan's blouse:

Joan thrusts her skirt at Andy:

And as Andy steps into the skirt, Joan takes over the

uncompleted buttoning chores:

She turns to look critically at her face in the mirror:

ON Harry and the Nurse, as before:

Her attention is diverted to a SECOND NURSE entering the

wing, calling out to her and making a summoning gesture:

Harry watches as she moves away, and while the two Nurses

engage in an exchange some distance down the hall, he

steps back to the door, opens it and sticks his head

inside:

HIS POV

of Joan and Andy, the former whispering urgently in ref-

erence to the latter's red hair:

ON OLD MAN

now snoozing in the wheelchair. Harry's hand MOVES INTO

FRAME and deftly removes his hat.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                          90.

HIS POV

of the Second Nurse on her way back to the main corridor,

while Nurse One is returning to Harry.

As she comes up to him:

BACK TO SCENE

He moves to the door, opens it, blocking the Nurse's view

into it with his body.

HIS POV OF JOAN

Looking frightened at her imminent abandonment.

Andy, wearing dark glasses and with her hair hidden up

under the stingy-brim hat, steps out into the hallway.

BACK TO SCENE

Harry takes her by the arm and looks amiably toward the

Nurse.

The Nurse watches briefly as they move away, then

extracting a key from her pocket, she steps over to the

door and locks it.

Harry, outside the Mercedes, glancing around furtively,

while inside the car, Andy continues to perseverate about

Red Layls as she struggles out of Joan's clothes:

She hands him the skirt out through the window:

Harry lays the skirt on the hood of the car and begins

getting out of the doctor's jacket.

She hands him out the blouse and he turns politely away

from her semi-nudity as he hands her the doctor's jacket.

He takes a pack of cigarettes and a lighter from his

shirt pocket and hands them to her:

He immediately moves off, rolling Joan's clothes into a

bundle and heading back to the hospital grounds.

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                             92.

Harry, hurrying across the grounds to the rear of  the

hospital. (In the distant b.g. beyond him, the

Continental can be seen pulling up and parking on  a

street bordering the hospital. Moncrief, carrying   a

briefcase, and his chauffeur (Sturge), get out and   move

onto a walkway leading to the hospital entrance)

Harry rounds the corner of the hospital building and

stops:

Two male hospital employees are smoking and conversing

outside the door he had previously entered with Joan.

He turns and moves OUT OF SIGHT.

Joan, in a state of extreme nervousness, paces about the

room. Her perambulations bring her near the door to the

hallway. She reaches to the doorknob, tests it and finds

she is locked in.

A soft WHISTLE comes from the vicinity of the windows

behind her, followed by Harry's voice, whispering:

She crosses quickly to the windows, looking out through the

thick wire mesh at Harry:

HER POV

He stands several feet below, looking up at the window.

BACK TO SCENE

As he moves out of sight, her attention is drawn to the

sound of MUFFLED VOICES in the hallway. In a panic, she

starts toward the bathroom, changes her mind, moves to

the bed and gets into it. As the door begins to open,

she grabs one of the pillows and quickly covers her head

with it.

ON MONCRIEF AND STURGE

Being let into the room by a male nurse. He closes the

door after them and the two men look toward the bed:

HIS POV

of the unresponsive figure under the covers.

BACK TO SCENE

ON Andy in the driver's seat of the Mercedes. The window

is rolled up and she puffs impatiently on a cigarette.

Presently, she catches sight of something out the

driver's window and turns to look:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                            94.

A sleek black car with opaque'd windows pulls into a

parking slot several yards away. A faded male beauty,

somewhere in his 50s, gets out of the rear passenger door

and as he moves to the walkway leading to the hospital

grounds:

She quickly rolls down the window and angrily addresses

him:

RED LAYLS looks toward the Mercedes and as he approaches,

we can see a medical beeper attached to his belt.

HIS POV OF ANDY

Her hair still hidden under the stingy-brim, her eyes

unrecognizable behind the dark glasses.

BACK TO SCENE

He comes up to the car, peering closely at its occupant:

She pulls the dark glasses off...

... and throws them onto the dashboard.

Harry hastens back along the walkway to the parking lot.

Once again he halts abruptly in his tracks:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                               95.

HIS POV - RED LAYLS

Opening the driver's door and reaching in to take hold of

Andy's arm. (As she steps out of the car, we see that

below the doctor's jacket Harry had intended to retrieve,

she is bare-legged and wears Joan's high heels.)

BACK TO SCENE

Harry turns and strides back toward the hospital.

Moncrief places a briefcase on a nightstand next to the

bed. As he opens it and searches through its contents:

He removes several typed pages, stapled together and

looks down at the pillow covering Joan's face:

No response. Moncrief glances over at Sturge, standing

near the door, then back at the figure on the bed.

He reaches down and removes the pillow.    Joan looks fear-

fully up at him:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                                 96.

She sits up, glancing uneasily at Sturge, then attempts

to assert herself boldly to Moncrief:

Her bluff is immediately belied by:

Moncrief and Joan look toward the window:

Joan jumps from the bed and moves to address Harry:

Moncrief looks at the chauffeur, gesturing toward the

door.

Sturge exits to the hallway, leaving the door open.

POV OF HARRY

standing below the window, whispering:

BACK TO SCENE

Moncrief steps in beside Joan:

ON GROUNDS - ON HARRY

Muttering under his breath:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                               97.

In the distant b.g., the previously seen old man is being

wheeled along the main walkway by a hospital orderly.

Joan looks from Moncrief to Harry:

POV - HARRY

ON MONCRIEF

- ON HARRY

He begins searching frantically through his pockets:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                               98.

He tears the envelope in half and as he throws it on the

ground, a hand the size of a large dictionary reaches

INTO FRAME and grabs him roughly by the back of his shirt

collar.

POV - HARRY AND STURGE - NIGHT

lurching about in a grappler's waltz below the window.

In the b.g. the old man can be seen leaning down to the

walkway, picking up the stingy-brim hat and returning it

to his head.

She turns from the window to see a subdued Andy entering,

her eyes showing signs of recent weeping. Behind her in

the hall, Moncrief can be seen greeting Red Layls.

Joan moves over to her...

... And in response to Andy's stoical nod:

She moves toward the nightstand with Joan following:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                               99.

She extracts a tissue from a dispenser on the nightstand:

Joan's jaw goes slack in disbelief.

ON RED

Glancing sourly at the two women, as he and Moncrief

enter.

ON SISTERS

Speaking in hushed, and in Joan's case, urgent tones,

while, in the b.g., Moncrief exits to the hallway.

Andy looks over at RED, now seated in one of the two

chairs in the room. Moncrief can be seen re-entering

and joining him.

ON HARRY

Stepping into the doorway, holding Struge in a painful

armlock:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                             101.

Harry releases Sturge and moves over to Layls, offering

his hand and trying to maintain his gruff manner:

Joan looks with dismay at Harry's apostasy as he shakes

"the great man's" hand, then quickly returns her atten-

tion to Andy:

Red and Harry, as before. In the b.g., a hospital

employee wheels a cart holding several glasses of iced

tea. Moncrief moves over to the cart and the employee

exits.

As he seats himself in the other chair, Red reaches up

and takes a glass of tea offered by Moncrief:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                               102.

Harry takes a second glass from Moncrief:

ON JOAN AND ANDY

ON HARRY AND RED

(In the b.g., Sturge exits on another flunky errand.)

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                              103.

ON JOAN

looking over at Harry, protesting loudly:

ON ANDY

as Harry, in the b.g., resumes his exchange with Red:

She looks to the chauffeur, re-entering with her clothes.

Before Joan can respond, she crosses to take her

belongings from Sturge, and as she moves toward the

bathroom:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                                  104.

JOAN'S POV

of the beleaguered maiden she hoped to rescue, pausing on

her way, to lean down and kiss the cheek of the dragon

she meant to slay.

ON JOAN

As Moncrief steps up to her, offering a glass of tea:

She moves past him, striding over to Harry and Red:

ON RED

Raising a baleful eye to Joan:

ON JOAN

Standing above Layls:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                             105.

She looks defiantly from Harry to Moncrief, then back to

Red, who regards her coldly for a moment, then:

Under the following, Red's BEEPER begins SIGNALING:

Without removing his eyes from Joan's, he raises the

beeper to his mouth and presses the speaker button:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                               106.

ON ANDY

Partially dressed, stepping into the doorway and combing

her hair as she addresses Joan:

Red lifts the beeper to his mouth again:

As she moves over to Andy, Red gets up, paces around with

the beeper and his and Parks' VOICES are MUFFLED in b.g.

And as she goes back into the bathroom, Joan turns to

Harry:

He stands up and Red steps INTO FRAME beside him, a

distressed look on his face as he listens to Park (V.O.):

Harry moves around Red and steps up to Joan:

Joan and Harry are forced to listen to the following

exchange:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91                             108.

He begins pacing anxiously again, the CAMERA FOLLOWING

him:

As Red paces toward the open bathroom door, Harry and Joan

resume their discord:

Moncrief steps in beside Joan:

MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91                             109.

NIGHT

Andy pauses in her application of mascara, shifting her

gaze to Red's reflection in the mirror as he enters

behind her:

ROOM - NIGHT

ON Moncrief, Joan and Harry.

Harry suddenly grabs Moncrief roughly by the arm:

He shakes him, causing him to spill his iced tea onto the

front of his jacket:

Harry releases him and under the following, Moncrief

takes out a handkerchief and dabs at his jacket:

ON JOAN'S REACTION

Devastated, as she looks at Harry.

