M E E T   J O E   B L A C K

Screenplay by Bo Goldman

--------------------------------------------------------------

EXT. ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON, N.Y. - 4:00 AM

A patch of water. PULL BACK TO REVEAL more water.  BACK

FARTHER TO REVEAL an expanse of river, up the bank to

massive lawn running up to a great, classic Hudson River

manor house; the country estate of William Parrish.

INT. PARRISH COUNTRY ESTATE - 4:00 AM

MOVE THROUGH French doors that lead from a wide terrace into

an expansive living room, DOWN wide corridors lined with

Bierstadt and Cole paintings, the Hudson River School, mists

and trees and small boats and distant humans.

INT. PARRISH BEDROOM - 4:00 AM

MOVE THROUGH the doorway to reveal a master bedroom furnish-

ed with exquisite simplicity, revelatory of its sleeping

occupant, WILLIAM PARRISH, 64, a warm but commanding face, a

man of maturity yet who exudes a glow of enthusiasm.

Although asleep, there is an uncommon restlessness to him.

Parrish grips his upper arm as if in pain.  Now the severity

of the pain wakes him, he squeezes his arm.  The wind comes

up, through the wind a VOICE is heard distantly, or is it the

wind itself:

Parrish blinks, has he heard something, has he not, he is

not sure, he releases his arm, his grimace of pain fades,

the discomfort seems momentarily to have subsided.

He rises now, crosses to the bathroom.  As he pees, a breeze

outside the window, the wind again, but then the Voice comes

up:

It is unmistakably a Voice, it is not the wind, Parrish has

heard something, he looks around, but no one is there.  He

can't finish peeing, turns back to his bedroom.  All beweild-

ered, Parrish looks around once more, climbs back into bed,

trying to trace the source of what he has heard or hasn't

heard; he is not sure.

He pulls the covers up now, not a SOUND, tries to close his

eyes.

Parrish sits up again, frightened, but still there is no one

there, he seems fraught with indecision, should he get up,

should he not, what is happening?  He looks out: absolute

stillness and silence, CRICKETS chirp down by the river, a

light FLICKERS from a shadboat, Parrish closes his eyes but

then they flutter open, he glances up at the ceiling and

finally, exhausted, falls back asleep.

EXT. REAR TERRACE, PARRISH COUNTRY ESTATE - NEXT MORNING

The great lawn infested with workmen, planting stakes, un-

rolling a huge canvas tent, gardeners fashioning topiary and

adding landscaping of their own, crews setting up platforms,

speakers, lights.  Ubiquitous is ALLISON, 35, Parrish's

older daughter, foremen competing for her attention and she

relishing every moment.

A Painter approaches.

A Florist stops her.

EXT. GREAT HALL, COUNTRY ESTATE - MORNING

Parrish, groomed for the day, trots down the stairs, observ-

ing the activity outside through the windows.  He checks his

watch, strides down the hall, encounters MAY, 50, a family

retainer who is opening the doors to the terrace as Parrish

passes.

Parrish grins, continues on, is intercepted by Allison who,

on catching sight of him, bounces in from the terrace.

Parrish smiles complaisantly, they continue on into a break-

fast room where SUSAN, 30, Parrish's younger daughter, is

grazing at a table laden with cereals and fruits and coffee.

But Parrish only pours coffee.

Parrish gazes at the going-on outside which are increasing

in intensity.

Allison goes, Susan observes Parrish fidgeting.

A moment.

The helicopter CHOPS in overhead.

EXT. COUNTRY ESTATE - MORNING

A BUTLER and May carry the overnight bags for the family as

led by Parrish, they hurry towards the helicopter.  En route

they pass QUINCE, 38, Allison's husband, who is perched at a

portable bar with AMBROSE, the head caterer, tasting wines.

Ambrose takes a sip, swishes the wine in his mouth, spits it

in a bucket.

Quince drains his wine, presents it for a refill, when he is

hailed by Allison.

Quince downs this glass too, runs for the helicopter as

DREW, 34, a young man going places, emerges from it,

approaches Parrish and Susan.

Drew kisses her, over her shoulder he glances at Parrish.

Quince comes running up now.

Drew ushers everybody on, first Parrish, then Susan and

Quince, Drew the last to climb on, shuts the door behind him

As Allison hurries away from the whirling rotors.

INT. ASTAR HELICOPTER - DAY

The configuration of seats has Drew beside Parrish, in front

of them Quince and Susan opposite each other in single seats.

Just as Drew removes color-coded folders from his attache

case and spreads them out for Parrish on his tray table, the

pilot waves to Drew, indicating 'phone call'.  Drew gets up

and heads for the cockpit, Parrish scans the folders, glances

over at Susan who is making some notes on a file of her own.

He motions to her to please come sit beside him, she checks

that Drew is still busy in the cockpit, tucks her papers into

her carryall, and crosses over to Parrish who folds away the

work that Drew set before him into his tray table, locks it.

He peers up ahead at Drew, on the telephone and gesticulat-

ing intensely, right at home in the cockpit despite the CHOP

of the blades and the pilot pressed up against him.

Susan doesn't answer for a moment, then impulsively kisses her

father on the cheek.

Another moment.

A moment.

He smiles.

Silence.

She kisses him on the cheek.

EXT. 34TH STREET HELIPAD, NEW YORK CITY - DAY

The AStar lands, an attendant, waiting with a luggage cart,

rushes to open the door and unload the bags.  The passengers,

Parrish paired with Quince, Drew with Susan, file off the

rooftop through a door which opens into an elevator.

INT. ELEVATOR, NEW YORK CITY - DAY

Parrish, Susan, Drew and Quince face forward as they ride

downwards.

Parrish is about to make some reassuring comment to Quince

when the Voice suddenly intrudes:

A respectful silence, the elevator continues downwards,

suddenly the Voice intrudes again:

Parrish grunts bizarrely, Susan notices and reacts:

Parrish's eyes dart about, confirming no one has heard a

thing but him.

The elevator door opens.

Parrish leads the group out.

EXT. 34TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY - DAY

They exit the building.

Parrish, followed by Drew, steps into a waiting limousine,

Quince looks longingly after them.  Susan, blowing a kiss

goodbye to her father, steps out into the street to hustle a

cab.

INT. LOBBY, BONTECOU WORLD HEADQUARTERS - DAY

Parrish smiles, they step into the elevator.

INT. BONTECOU EXECUTIVE OFFICES - DAY

Parrish and Drew emerge from the elevator, Parrish observing

the overkill decor.

A moment, Parrish shrugs.

Drew opens a door, a conference room, a circle of top exec-

utives, now stepping out from the group is a huge, white-

haired man, JOHN BONTECOU, 55.

Silence.  Parrish looks around at the circle of 'suits',

Bontecou holding away.

Drew nods excitedly.

EXT. NEW YORK HOSPITAL CORNELL MEDICAL CENTER - DAY

The busy medical community at 68th Street and New York Avenue.

INT. CORINTH COFFEE SHOP, NEW YORK AVENUE - DAY

A thriving eatery diagonally across from the hospital's

entrance, customers cheek-by-jowl as a pair of waiters

juggle breakfasts served to a noisy throng of doctors,

residents and interns.

Susan has squeezed into a seat in the corner.  A counterman,

with a smile and a greeting, places a cup of coffee in front

of her.  A sense this is a daily ritual, arming herself for

the day; immediately she becomes aware of a man behind her

speaking into the pay phone.

An attractive YOUNG MAN, early 30's, a pair of suitcase at

his feet, a raincoat slung over his shoulder.

The Young Man hangs up, turns around and sits down to an

overflowing plate of eggs and meat, potatoes and toast, the

counterman refills his cup and the Young Man ties into the

breakfast, eating it with such relish that Susan can't take

her eyes off him.  He senses her eyes, glances over, his

cheeks filled with a mouthful of food, swallows embarrassedly.

Susan laughs.

The Young Man smiles.

A moment.

Susan looks into her coffee.

Two pots are warming behind the counter, he reaches over and

refills her cup and his.  Pushes a container and pitcher to-

wards her.

They smile at each other, fix up their coffee.

EXT. PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS, NEW YORK CITY - DAY

A magnificent granite building, a monument to good taste in

the midtown sea of glass and aluminum.

INT. OUTER LOBBY, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - DAY

Parrish and Drew enter, no particular fanfare but an aware-

ness the 'Chief' has arrived, everyone giving Parrish the

appropriate wide berth, Drew right beside him.

They stride to the main bank of elevators.

INT. EXECUTIVE OFFICES, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - DAY

Parrish, Drew beside him, proceeds through a high tech, but

tasteful, maze, spiffy executive secretaries at burnished

desks.  Neither looking right or left, somehow Parrish man-

ages to acknowledge their bright smiles and deferential nods

despite his swift entrance.

He passes through an open set of doors and he is into his

own suite, commanded by JENNIFER, his assistant.

Drew is still at Parrish's heels, but now Parrish stops at

the open door, turns back to him, reminding Drew that this

is as far as he goes without being invited.

Parrish disappears into his office.  Drew, on his way out,

glides past Jennifer's desk.

Jennifer acknowledges Drew with a smile, rises and moves to

Parrish's doorway, waiting for the day's instructions, but

Parrish only nods to the door and Jennifer quickly closes

it, returns to her desk.

INT. PARRISH'S OFFICE - DAY

Alone in his office, Parrish's ebullient mood immediately

changes.  Leaning against the back of the couch, he stares

out through floor-to-ceiling windows, surveying the

Manhattan skyline: cogitates.

He takes a seat on the couch, opens a folder, suddenly he

flinches with a spasm of pain in his shoulder.  It is sharp

but brief, he notices it but what it does not continue, he

ignores it.

Parrish resumes looking at the folder when suddenly the

pain comes again.  He reaches for his shoulder, tries to

massage the pain, it does not subside.  Parrish stands,

trying to shake it off, but it refuses to go away, some-

thing is unmistakably wrong.  Now a SOUND which he has

come to recognize, makes itself heard:

Frozen with surprise, Parrish's eyes search the room for the

source of the SOUND, it comes from no particular direction,

yet surrounds him.  Suddenly Parrish's symptoms sharply

intensify, he is sinking to the floor but somehow grabs a

corner of the desk, holds on with one hand, with the other

clutches at his shoulder and arm, the pain has violently

seized the upper part of his body.  He breaks out in a sweat,

his pallor now waxen as the Voice repeats itself:

Parrish grips the edge of the desk, the pain assaulting him

on the one hand, the Voice coming at him from the outer,

each aberration feeds on the other, he is beside himself,

consumed with pain and bewildered by what seems to be a

hallucination but which he is certain is not.  Parrish is

possessed.  He angles his face in every direction, arbi-

trarily chooses one and now embarrassedly, unconsciously,

enrage, responds to the Voice.

Parrish is absolutely confounded, seized up with pain and

consternation at this unseen Voice which has such presence

and reality.

Silence.

A moment.

Parrish gasps.

He holds on tight to the corner of the desk, sweat dripping,

his skin ashen.  Now he addresses the Voice again, searching

for it in another direction:

A spasm, the worst one yet, finally it subsides and there is

an eerie silence in the room, a VOID, almost more disturbing

than the voice that has filled it.

The VOICE is gone.  Parrish searches the corner, but the

room has lost the quality it had when it was inhabited by

the VOICE, it is now just Parrish's office.  Faint SQUEALS of

traffic from the street, then a KNOCK at the door.

Parrish touches his shoulder, the pain is gone, but he is

still wet with sweat, the KNOCK again.  Parrish straightens

himself up, adjusts his tie, runs his fingers through his

hair, blinks as he addresses the door.

Jennifer enters.

Parrish is within himself, doesn't answer.

Parrish still doesn't answer, however Jennifer is satisfied,

correctly hearing his silence as an affirmative.  She has her

hand on the door, 'Open' or 'Closed'?  He nods and she closes it.

Utter silence again.  Parrish's eyes search the room, nothing

there.

INT. CORINTH COFFEE SHOP, YORK AVENUE, DAY

The place has cleared out now, the counterman busy bussing

tables laden with dishes and cups, Susan and the Young Man

are still at the counter, but about to leave.

Susan rises now, the Young Man with her, leaving money for

their checks they head for the door.

Susan at the door now, pauses abruptly, her eyes on the

Young Man.

EXT. CORINTH COFFEE SHOP, YORK AVENUE - DAY

The Young Man holds the door for Susan as they step out

onto the street.

Susan is staring at him now, he smiles, all open and

vulnerable.

Another moment.

She hurries away down the sidewalk, the Young Man watching

her.  Now he turns and starts off in the opposite direction.

ANOTHER ANGLE - SUSAN

She looks back at the Young Man, then turns and walks on.

ANOTHER ANGLE - THE YOUNG MAN

He looks back at Susan as the distance between them widens,

now he turns and walks on.

ON SUSAN

She looks around once more but the Young Man is still headed

in the opposite direction, his back to her.  She turns the

corner and continues on.

ON THE YOUNG MAN

Approaching the corner, he looks back for Susan yet again,

but she is gone, still turned he steps off into the street

and a hospital supplies truck, speeding down the curb lane,

HITS HIM BROADSIDE, a horrific impact, the THUD echoes as

his body arcs through the air.

Another sickening THUD as it lands, the Young Man lies

crumpled, still.

INT. SALON, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE, NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT

A beautiful space adjacent to the dining room, it has a

glass roof which offers a superb view of the Manhattan sky-

line.  The hour is before dinner: gathered on one side of

the room are Allison and Parrish, on the other side Drew and

Quince.  COYLE, a butler, and LUISA, the housekeeper, pass

hors d'oeuvres and drinks.

Parrish has tuned Allison out, he tried to stay with it, but

his mind has wandered, the event of the day too much with

him.

Parrish still doesn't answer.

A stab of pain, Parrish discreetly grabs his upper arm but

manages to keep his attention on Allison.

Suddenly, the Voice cuts in:

Parrish's head snaps, startled by the SOUND.

Parrish reacts once more, aware again he is the only one who

has heard the Voice, as an oblivious Allison continues:

Parrish ignores her, his attention has been taken by the

Voice.  His eyelids flutter, nonplused, edgy and fearful.

Parrish is confounded.  Blindly and disconcerted, he follows

Allison and Drew and Quince.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

As a disturbed Parrish approaches the table, he hears the

Voice once more:

Parrish sits.

Parrish is on the edge of his seat, struggling to hide his

panic.

The conversation swirls on around Parrish, he is deaf to it:

Parrish is in shock, still striving to gain control of

himself.  As Coyle serves him, Parrish turns to Luisa:

Luisa goes as Coyle continues serving.

Parrish is still not hearing a word, preoccupied with the

return of Luisa.

Luisa returns to Parrish as the others' conversation drones

on:

Parrish is stunned.

Parrish, spinning with anxiety, tries to summon up his courage

to go as Allison continues:

Finally Parrish rises from the table, starts out.

Allison is about to press the point, but then drifts into

disappointed silence as Parrish leaves the room.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE LIBRARY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Parrish moves deliberately down the hall, slows as he nears

the doorway to the library.  The door is open.  He hesitates

before he crosses the threshold, taking in as much as his

eye can see, now tentatively, he enters.

INT. LIBRARY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

A beautiful, classic room, areas of dim, warm light, club

chairs, books reaching to the ceiling, a rolling library

ladder, a weathered dictionary on a stand, a model boat

carved of bone set into the stacks which are separated from

the reading area by a seven-foot high partition of obscured

glass.

Parrish, poised in the doorway, looks around, nothing in

sight.

Silence.

No response.

Parrish is startled, he shrinks backward for a moment, his

eyes searching the room for the Voice, the timbre and pitch

of which is exactly what he has heard before.  There is the

sense that someone is there but Parrish cannot see him, and

he does not dare look.

Now a flicker of a shadow from behind a corner of the obscured

glass, the section of the room most distant from Parrish,

there is a shape.  Something is there.

Parrish falls silent, something in the SOUND and TONE of the

Voice muting him.  He takes a step backwards.

The shape moves, makes itself more visible.  Although still

diffused by the glass, the shape has definition, a person, a

man, his features are not yet distinguishable, but he is

there all right.

Parrish struggles to make sense of what he is hearing.

Parrish squints, trying to make sense of what is happening.

After a moment.

The figure who is the Voice takes a step forward now, no

longer obscured by the glass he comes into the light, re-

vealing himself to be the Young Man seen previously in the

coffee shop, but there is a change; he seems odd, off-

center, not handsome but terrifyingly beautiful.

A moment, Parrish beside himself.  He cannot bring himself

to speak, finally:

The Young Man steps closer to Parrish, his face is inches

from a shaking, sweating Parrish's face, the Young Man

daring Parrish to identify him:

Parrish turns away.  But the Young Man, spectacularly, is in

front of him again.

Parrish is shocked, stunned, terrified at the word, by what

he has comprehended.  He surveys the Young Man who, at this

moment, actually seems bewildered by his effect.

A hopelessly confused Parrish does not respond for a moment.

The Young Man nods, gently.

A long silence.  Parrish and the Young Man take each other in,

the sense that now they understand each other.  A SOUND at the

door.

Parrish does not hear her for the moment, Luisa steps inside

the Library.

Parrish ignores her at first, finally he looks at Luisa then

at the Young Man, then once more at both of them as if to

verify the Young Man's presence has been acknowledged by

Luisa.  The Young Man interjects:

Luisa nods perfunctorily and exits.  Parrish is frozen,

dumbfounded.

Parrish does not answer at first.

Parrish is frightened by the response.

Parrish hesitates, then obediently leads the Young Man out

of the library, down a long hallway and across the foyer.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

As Parrish and the Young Man enter, Allison is heard in the

background.

Parrish and the Young Man appear at the table, an awkward

pause ensues, the unannounced guest's presence at a family

dinner being noted, and the guest himself carefully survey-

ed.  Finally, Allison breaks the ice:

Parrish is horribly uncomfortable as the Young Man looks at

each person as if he were discovering a face of the first

time.

Parrish drifts into another awkward pause.

Parrish drifts off as the Young Man awkwardly shakes hands

with each person.

The group waits patiently.

Parrish once more drifts into silence.  (The YOUNG MAN is now

identified as "JOE".)

Joe, turned on by Quince's broad smile, reacts to it as Drew

squints observingly at Joe.

Parrish's face reveals a desperate searching for a last name,

a furtive glance at Joe.  Parrish's brow darkens and a name

tumbles from his lips:

Luisa has set a plate in front of Joe, and Parrish's, which

was taken to the kitchen to be warmed, has been returned.

Joe looks over at the other guests, then picks up his uten-

sils gingerly, strives to copy the others, stops, staring at

his foot.

Drew is studying Joe.

Drew is provoked by the response, but remains polite:

Parrish jumps in:

Parrish falls silent again, looking for an answer.

The doors to the dining room open, Susan appears.

She kisses Drew in some light, humorous way they have ob-

viously done before, their heads bobbing like plastic water

toys and their lips meeting mid-air.

At the kiss's conclusion Susan suddenly notices Joe is

present and has been watching.  She is shocked, embarrassed,

pleased, conflicted, an instant and wide spectrum of emotions.

Silence.

Joe is happily confounded by all the interaction.

Joe has heard Susan's question but, as he studies her,

doesn't answer.

Parrish pushes his plate away.

Parrish tenses, but Joe doesn't answer.

Drew reacts to this allusion of intimacy.

Parrish stands, motions for Joe to rise.

Joe rises, follows Parrish to the door, stops:

He makes an awkward little bow, then heads for the nearest

door.

Joe pivots, and he follows Parrish out the proper door.

Susan's eyes are still on the door where Joe exited, her

face reflecting her irritation and bewilderment, as well as

a tinge of excitement.

INT. HALLWAY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Parrish leads the way, Joe beside him as they progress through

the huge house.

Parrish suddenly looks very anxious, Joe stops.

He opens a door.

INT. MASTER GUEST SUITE, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Parrish turns back to the bedroom.

Parrish is in a stunned state, chatters on unconsciously:

Joe tests the springs.

Parrish glances around, a room in which the occupant could

not want for anything.

A moment.

Parrish keeps still, trying to cool the heat of Joe's

temper.

Parrish gently closes the door.

Joe looks around, checks out his surroundings: curious,

attentive.

INT. HALLWAY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Parrish, unsteady, starts back down the hall, Luisa appears.

Luisa turns:

She stops.

Luisa nods, and heads back downstairs.  Parrish enters

his den, takes a seat in his chair, stares into the middle

distance, ruminates.

INT. GUEST ROOM, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Joe has been examining his room, full of curiosity and

wonderment at the oddest things, the handle on a casement

window, the hem and weight of the fabric of a drape, hinges

on the bedroom door.  In the process he opens this door,

steps out into the hallway.

INT. HALLWAY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Joe wanders down the hallway past the occasional Dufy or

Miro, a Venetian tapestry cheek-by-jowl with a miniature

Ming vae, and even a Bonsai garden with a trickling vein

of water.

INT. KITCHEN HALLWAY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

In the "back" of the house now, utilitarian paint and decor,

the SOUND of laughter and a glare of light.  Joe enters.

INT. KITCHEN, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

The staff is at ease, some smoking, remains of food around.

Coyle, the butler, has his back to Joe and does not see him

for a moment.  In front of Coyle, an open jar of peanut but-

ter which he is spreading in generous hunks of Wonder Bread.

Joe is fascinated by the process.  Coyle suddenly hears the

silence, looks up and see Joe, standing up embarrassedly.

The staff all mumble expansive "Good evening, sir"s to Joe.

He motions to them to sit, they do but Coyle does not.  Coyle

shifts from foot-to-foot, the staff is not used to having

Parrish family or guests in this part of the house.

Coyle regards his peanut butter sheepishly.

Joe nods, Coyle fashions a spoonful, offers it to Joe.  Joe

swallows it.  But he has not yet found a comfortable way of

masticating, his mouth and tongue go every which way, the

staff observes him, fascinated.

Joe raises the spoonful of peanut butter in a kind of toast

to the staff.

He heads out, with the spoonful of peanut butter, to cheer-

ful "Goodnight, Mr. Black"'s, his tongue again licking the

edges of the spoon.

INT. SWIMMING POOL, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - DAY

A spectacular indoor Olympic pool, window commanding views

of the skyline.

Susan is swimming laps, looking very professional in a black

Speedo suit, Joe wanders in, still licking his peanut butter.

He observes her, but she is unaware of him, however now, as

she makes a barrel turn, his shadow falls over a reflection

from a window, she aborts her lap, looks up to see who it is.

Susan climbs out of the pool, gets halfway up the ladder,

points to a stack of towels.

Joe turns to the towels, but one hand is occupied with the

spoonful of peanut butter, he shifts it to the other hand,

can't manage the huge Turkish towel one-handed, now implants

the spoon in his mouth, lifts the towel with both hands and

presents it to Susan.

Joe continues to nibble at his peanut butter.

He finishes the spoonful.

He shifts the spoon from hand to hand, starts to stick it in

his pocket, realizes this is inappropriate.  Susan holds her

hand out to him, he places the spoon in it and she sets the

spoon on the table with the towels.  She watches, fascinat-

ed, as Joe licks his gums, enjoying every last bit of his

spoonful.

She finishes drying herself, drops the towel on a chair, and

prepares to leave.

He drifts off.

A moment.

She glances at her shoulder, he grabs a towel, touches the

drops of water, pats them dry, hands her the towel.  She

flashes a nervous smile.

Susan steps towards a door, Joe takes a step in the wrong

direction, they almost walk into each other.  Now she takes

a step in another direction, as does Joe, again they almost

collide.

Joe is completely puzzled, finally Susan heads for one door,

Joe for another.

Susan indicates yet another door.

Joe redirects himself, goes to the door.  As they both are

about to exit, Joe and Susan sneak furtive looks at each

other across the pool, smile at catching each other's

glances.  Joe exits.  For a moment Susan's eyes remain on

the door through which he has gone.  Now she grips the towel

over her shoulders, the one Joe gave her, pats the same spot

he did.

INT. HALLWAY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NEXT MORNING

Parrish, dressed for the day, passes servants busy with

their morning tasks, polishing doorknobs, putting away

linen, dusting picture frames.  He nods and greets them as

he strides down the hall, brisk "Good morning"'s to Coyle

and Luisa.

INT. GUEST SUITE, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - MORNING

Parrish knocks, waits a courteous moment, opens the door,

finds Joe in an elegant shirt and trousers trying to tie his

tie.

Parrish regards Joe, the tie is a sorry mess now, a batwing

of silk stretching across his collarbone.

Parrish is startled, he regards Joe carefully.

Silence as Joe considers the point, Parrish quickly crosses

to him, undoes the tie, and now begins tying it for him.

A moment.

Parrish seems relieved.  He has now, with some difficulty,

completed the tying of Joe's tie, adjusts it beautifully on

Joe's collar, then spins him around in front of a mirror.

Joe, catching sight of his own appearance, rises to the

balls of his feet, quite taken.

Joe immediately extends his hand toward Parrish, but

Parrish freezes on seeing the hand, stares at it, now takes

it.  Joe pumps Parrish's hand vigorously, then breaks into a

broad smile.

EXT. 5TH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY - DAY

Parrish and Joe striding downtown, Joe's jacket fits per-

fectly, he blends right in and he clearly enjoys being part

of the smart Fifth Avenue crowd on the way to work.  Parrish

senses Joe's pleasure, his slight preening, his eyes check-

ing out the good-looking women headed for the offices at the

top of corporate high-rises.

A flicker from Joe.  He has heard what Parrish has said, his

eyes busy with the grift and the sparkle of the Avenue, but

he is concentrating on Parrish's words.

Parrish falls silent, chewing over Joe's admonition.

They stride on, cutting through the crowd, Joe all at home

in his new surrounding, but Parrish just the opposite, un-

characteristically uncomfortable, phrases forming on his

lips but unspoken, then suddenly he blurts out:

Parrish is trying to control himself, glances at Joe.

A moment.

A sudden silence between them.  Parrish's shoulders appear

to have stopped slightly, the courage he displayed at rais-

ing these issues has vanished.

They turn into Parrish's office building.

INT. LOBBY, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - DAY

As Parrish and Joe enter, Parrish is hailed by JAIME, the

Elevator Starter.

A bemused Parrish walks on, Joe beside him, Jaime pursuing

them.

Parrish and Joe arrive at the bank of elevators.  Jaime,

back at his post, hits a button.

The elevator materializes, Parrish and Joe step on.

INT. PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS, OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN - DAY

Parrish and Joe emerge from the executive elevator, Jennifer

is waiting as usual with her pad, "Good morning"s, etc.  As

Parrish strides down the hall, Joe right beside him, he passes

instructions back to Jennifer who, scribbling, hurries along

behind them.

Jennifer wheels and heads right back to the office as

Parrish arrives at the door to the Board Room.

Parrish hesitates, nods, conceding the point, reaches for

the doorknob.

INT. BOARD ROOM, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - DAY

Parrish enters, Joe following right behind him.  A euphony

of "Good morning"'s from the various members of the Board,

including Quince.  Everyone sits when Parrish does but Joe,

right at home, spots a tray of refreshments: coffee, pas-

tries, he heads for them.

Immediately indications of surprise on Board members' faces at

Parrish bringing in an 'observer', Drew's reaction guarded

but intense.

A hushed silence at the inappropriateness of Joe's inter-

ruption.

Drew indicates to the Board's Stenographer to arrange Joe's

refreshments.

Joe sits.

Smiles and murmurs of a congratulatory receptiveness from

the Board at Drew's news.

Parrish takes a moment, draws himself up to say something

official then stops himself, what follows is spontaneous,

reflective, deeply felt.

A silence, everybody shifts, the Board is in shock, Drew is

trying to maintain his balance.

Joe interjects:

After a moment.

Another moment.

Drew regards Joe.

The Board is provoked and mystified by Joe and even more by

his presence, they cast meaningful glances at Parrish, Drew

coolly grasps the irritation of the members.  Parrish breaks

the silence.

EDWARD SLOANE, a contemporary of Parrish's, has been warily

silent, but extremely observant.  Protective of Parrish, and

sensing his burgeoning difficulty, he interrupts:

Joe rises.

He exits with Parrish, the door closes behind them.  A BABBLE

of disturbed reactions from the Board.

Drew grabs a telephone:

Drew hangs up.

INT. PARRISH'S OFFICE - DAY

Parrish enters, Joe right on his heels.  They booth stop,

Parrish regards him.

Parrish tries to gather himself.

But Joe doesn't move.

Parrish reaches into his pocket and hands Joe some cash.

Joe stares at the money as Parrish shows him the door.

Parrish opens the door.

Joe goes.

INT. EMERGENCY ROOM AREA, NEW YORK HOSPITAL - DAY

Susan is busy giving instructions to a Nurse, a patient on

an examining table beside them.  As she finishes, she

suddenly notices Joe down the corridor in the reception

area.  She is startled for the moment, quickly makes a last

notation, hands a chart to the Nurse and heads down the

corridor.

Susan regards him.

Joe doesn't have an answer.

Visible now behind them are a Caribbean woman in her mid-

thirties, TEENA, an arm around her mother, EASTER, who is

holding her stomach and rocking back and forth in her seat,

in great pain.

Easter looks up and sees Joe.  She abruptly becomes still,

eyes wide, as if sudden recognition.

But Easter just stares at Joe, fearful.

Joe looks at Easter, curiously.

Teena shakes her hand anxiously.  Joe leans forward to

Easter and speaks softly in perfect, lilting West Indian

dialect.

Susan and Teena both look at him, astonished.  Easter's

fearful gaze remains locked on him.

Susan leads Teena away.  Easter is riveted on Joe.

She winces with pain, gasping.

Joe regards Easter, a long moment.

Joe shakes his head, a firm no.  But when he looks and speaks

to Easter again, it is with concern and even regret.

Susan and Teena return with an Orderly and a wheelchair for

Easter.

Easter is helped into the wheelchair.  She looks pleadingly

at Joe.  The Orderly starts to wheel her away.  Joe stays him,

putting his hand on Easter's arm.

She does, her pained grimace melts into a peaceful smile.

He takes his hand away, and the Orderly wheels Easter off.

Teena goes.  Joe remains his normal voice.

Susan regards Joe, puzzled.

Joe shifts.

Silence.

Another awkward silence.

She doesn't move, they search for words.

Susan regards him.

Susan smiles gently.

A moment.

Another moment.

Susan turns to go, hesitates.

Susan waves softly to him, heads down the hall, glances back

once to see Joe has not moved, is watching her depart.

INT. PARRISH'S OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Jennifer shows Joe in, Parrish is deep in thought, beside

him a meal laid out beautifully on his desk with linen and

silver, but untouched.

Joe is more abstracted than usual, he is starting at

Parrish's food.

Joe starts eating, Parrish watches him, somewhat fascinated,

Joe's chewing has improved.

Joe takes another big bite.

Silence, Parrish getting lost in his memories.

Silence.

A moment.

Joe is riveted on Parrish ow, Parrish aware of him, has

paused.

A KNOCK, the door opens and Drew enters, looks at Parrish,

then at Joe, stands poised in the doorway.

Drew takes a moment, then plunges in.

Joe interrupts:

Drew is stunned.

A moment.

Drew heads for the door, turns around.

Drew exits.

INT. SALON, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE, NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT

The skyline glitters through the terrace windows.  The hour

is before dinner, Coyle and Luisa weave seamlessly among the

family, offering hors d'oeuvres and drinks on a tray.

Allison and Susan together by a piano; Parrish, Quince and a

distracted Joe are gathered near the terrace.  Joe's eyes

are on Susan across the room.  Her eyes flicker towards him,

aware of his gaze.

Drew enters.  He nuzzles Susan's neck, out of the corner of

her eye she sees Joe still observing them.

Drew, whose eyes have also been on Joe across the room, turns

back.

Allison sees Susan's eyes flicker over towards Joe.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Over at the terrace, Quince buttonholes Parrish, Joe stand-

ing by.

Quince sees Parrish hesitate.

An excited Quince drains his drink and heads for Drew as

Allison appears.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Across the room, Quince has pulled Drew aside:

Drew gazes intently over at Joe who is crossing to Susan,

for the moment by herself near the piano.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Joe approaches Susan.

A moment between them.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Drew crosses over to Parrish.

Parrish doesn't answer.

A moment.

Drew glances over at Joe.

Allison calls out from the other side of the room:

A BUZZ as Coyle opens the doors to the dining room and the

family files in, Drew lingering behind with Joe.

Joe just smiles in response.

INT. DINING ROOM, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Everyone eating silently but looks are exchanged, glances

averted, Allison notices Susan and Joe looking at each

other, Drew observes Parrish watching Joe, Quince, on the

other hand, just eats.

Breaking the silence, Parrish chinks his glass, stands.

Everyone at the table is all attention.

He glances at Joe, stops.

An awkward pause.  Quince chooses to fill the silence.

Allison elbows him.

Parrish struggles to keep his emotions in check, Drew

clocking his behavior very carefully.

Silence, everyone waiting for Parrish to proceed.

Parrish looking around, searching for words he will not find.

He hesitates, drifts into silence.

A moment.

He sits, then immediately stands up again.

The word lands with effect, Susan and Allison have heard it

well.

The guests try to return to their food, Susan is the most

concerned about Parrish's lapse, she does not say anything

but Drew next to her senses her empathy and, in something of

a display, gives her a pro forma hug.  Joe has observed

every instant of Drew's performance, his anxiety is palpable

when Coyle leans over to serve him, offering a tray of a

roast that has been carved.

Coyle heads for the kitchen.

Joe is locked on Susan, it is as if there is nobody else in the

room.

Parrish's head swivels to Joe.

Silence.  Parrish regards Joe, then Susan, his face reflects

a sudden concern with their relationship.

INT. SALON, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

After dinner, the family and guests file back in from the

dining room, Drew alongside Parrish.

Drew peels off, heads for the foyer and front door, Susan

follows him.

Parrish corners Joe.

Silence, Parrish is at a loss.

INT. FOYER - NIGHT

Drew is putting on his coat, Susan with him, a tension between

them, a heavy silence finally broken.

Silence, neither knows how to continue.

Drew goes, Susan turns to find out at the far end of the foyer,

he's been observing them.  She walks up to him.

A moment.

Susan's directness has caught him by surprise, Joe blinks.

Joe remains silent, rendered extremely anxious by Susan's

inquiries.

Joe doesn't respond.

Susan comes closer to Joe.

Joe tries to respond but he can't, his stammer interrupted

by Susan.

Susan takes another step closer to Joe.

They are inches apart now, the smell of each other surrounds

them, a heaviness to the moment, now Joe turns to head up the

stairs.

He excuses himself with an ineffable gesture, now climbs the

stairs, Susan watches him disappear.

She turns back into the salon just as Allison and Quince are

exiting, "good-byes" all around.  Susan is left alone now

with Parrish who is fixing a drink at a sidebar.

Parrish drops another cube of ice in his drink, takes his

time before answering.

She kisses him.

She goes.

INT. THE CARLYLE HOTEL - NEXT DAY

A large suite, room service carts creaking with pots of

coffee and half-eaten pastries.  The Board of Parrish

Communications is gathered, absent are Parrish and Quince.

Felicia, Drew's secretary, takes notes.

The Board falls silent.  Sloane, a peer of Parrish's,

fidgets.  Drew milks the moment.

Silence, the Board clocking Drew's argument.

Drew leans over to Felicia, speaks quietly and she leaves

the room.

The door opens and Felicia enters followed by Quince, sur-

prised at seeing a convened Board, but still he is all smiles.

Quince hesitates, then realizes what Drew has on his mind.

He nods confidently to Drew, then turns importantly to the

Board.

Quince, having dispensed his information, looks proudly

around at the Board members.  They are stunned, Sloane in

shock.  Drew is absolutely still, letting Quince's words

sink in.

INT. DINING ROOM, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Parrish, Joe, Susan, Allison and Quince are seated at the

table, dessert plates in front of them, coffee cups beside.

Allison and Susan's eyes are on Parrish, looking for some

clue as to why has he gathered the family together yet

again.  Parrish is somewhat within himself, but he peeks

over his demi-tasse cup at Joe, Parrish aware of Joe's

heightened interest in Susan, and Susan's reciprocation.

Coyle enters carrying two imposing stemmed silver trays with

cakes on them, Luisa follows with one other.  They set them

down in front of Parrish.

Allison bursts into tears.

Quince quickly slashes a piece, takes a huge bite.

She bursts into tears all over again.

Joe watches as Quince dabs at Allison's tears with a napkin.

Parrish forks a bit of a cake.

Quince puts a reassuring arm around Allison, she seems to

relax now, Joe has been a keen observer of what has trans-

pired between husband and wife, between man and woman, a

sense that he has taken in the virtue of such a relation-

ship.

INT. SALON, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

After dinner, Parrish, Allison and Susan are gathered to-

gether.  At the bar on the other side of the room, Joe

watches as Quince pours himself a stiff hooker of brandy.

After a moment.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Drew appears unannounced in the doorway, exchanges a tense

glance with Susan, then heads straight for Parrish who seems

surprised to see him.

Parrish takes Drew aside.

Parrish's burgeoning anger has now gotten the attention of

Joe, Susan, Quince and Allison.

Silence, Parrish carefully calibrating Drew's remark.

Joe, although across the room, is all attention.

Drew goes, everybody is in shock, Susan pursues him out into

the hallway.

He stops.

Joe has followed them into the hallway.

Drew looks down towards Joe.

Joe waits.

Joe doesn't respond.

After a moment.

Joe clears his throat.

Joe considers him evenly.

Now Drew wheels, heads right for the front door and exits with

a SLAM.

A moment passes before Susan realizes she and Joe are alone,

and Joe does as well.

She regards Joe.

They drift, osmotically, into the library in awkward silence.

Joe comes closer, takes a deep breath.

Now Susan, close to Joe, leans closer, her nose in Joe's

neck.  Joe holds himself very still.

Silence, the TICKING of the clock.

A moment.

Susan reaches out for Joe, they kiss, he is awkward but his

very awkwardness endearing.  Susan pulls him closer, they

linger now, mouths on each other's, then separate.

The clock TICKS on.  A sense of foreboding falls over Joe's

face, his fear that he is passing through some barrier, a

point of no return.

The apprehensive expression on Joe's face fades away.

An intake of breath.  She is about to speak.

Their faces inches from each other's.

But neither Susan nor Joe moves.

Her question makes Joe, almost involuntarily, smile.  Susan

takes the opportunity to step back from him.  The SOUND of

someone at the door, it is Parrish, Susan turns, comprehends

immediately how the situation will appear to him.

She drifts right past him, exits.  Joe and Parrish are left

alone now, eyes on each other's.

An awkward moment.

Parrish turns and exits, Joe's head inclines, he breathes in

the scent of his collar.

INT. EXECUTIVE SUITE, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - NEXT DAY

Parrish, followed by Joe, emerges from his private elevator,

is greeted as usual:

Jennifer sees Parrish is trying to right his balance, she

knows better than to press the point.

Jennifer nods respectfully as Parrish doesn't cast a flicker

of any further surprise, heads straight for the Board room,

Joe right beside him.

INT. BOARD ROOM, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - DAY

Parrish and Joe enter, the entire Board is assembled, includ-

ing Drew, Quince and Sloane.

An odd mixture of responses, the Board sheepish and at the

same time looking their most dutiful at this odd meeting,

its sudden convening clearly a problem for Parrish, a prob-

lem which he does not attempt to hide, only control.

Drew gets the message, at the same time Joe is checking out

all the attendees, his eyes come to rest on Drew.

A moment as Parrish looks around, the moment extends, it

appears he may not ever answer.

Sloane leans in.

A BUZZ amongst the Board, they finally rustle into silence

under Parrish's withering glance.

Parrish waits.

Everybody's eyes are on Joe.

No response from Parrish.

Quince flinches at these words, his hands clasped in front

of him, his knuckles white as Parrish regards Drew, but still

does not answer.

Parrish squirms, desperately uncomfortable but still does

not speak.

Drew regards Joe.

Parrish stares stoically into the middle distance as

Quince's head sinks into his hands.

Parrish is expressionless.

Drew pauses.

A "Yes" is heard, now another "Yes", now more "Yes"es, all

reluctant, "No" from Sloane, "No" from Quince who realizes

he is the instrument of Parrish's dismissal.

Joe's eyes are riveted on Drew.

Parrish stands, Drew stops speaking.

Silence, then Joe rises.

Joe follows Parrish out of the room.

INT. HALLWAY, OUTSIDE BOARD ROOM - DAY

Sloane has pursued Parrish and Joe.

The elevator door opens, Parrish and Joe step inside and the

door closes, leaving Sloane behind.

INT. HALLWAY, PARRISH COMMUNICATIONS - DAY

The Board meeting has broken up, clusters of members have

lingered, exchanging post-mortems.  And enraged Quince has

cornered Drew, out of earshot of the others.

Quince falls silent, aquiver with this reality.

Quince is struck dumb.

Quince goes ashen.

Drew hails an employee across the hall.

Drew joins the employee as Quince slumps against the wall.

INT. FOYER, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - DAY

Parrish enters, Joe right behind him, Coyle takes their coats,

disappears.  Parrish hesitates for a moment, shrugs as if he

has a thought he doesn't want to share, then heads upstairs

with Joe.  He is trudging a bit, Joe senses his mood.

Joe seems puzzled.

A moment.

Parrish turns into his bedroom, closing the door gently

behind him.  Joe continues down the hall, enters the guest

wing.

INT. GUEST SUITE, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - DAY

Midday sunlight streams into the sitting room, Joe passes

through to his bedroom, sits tentatively on the bed, feels

the edge of the silk spread, touches the pillow, then rises

again, crosses back to the sitting room.

Susan appears in the doorway, Joe suddenly senses her, turns

around.

He stands, they regard each other for the moment.

She doesn't answer, starts to take off the coat herself, Joe

comes around her to help, Susan senses him breathing in the

scent at the back of her neck.

He starts to hang Susan's coat up.

Joe holds her coat carefully on the chair.  An awkward

moment, the two of them shifting from foot-to-foot.

A moment.

Susan sits on the couch.

Joe hears the question but doesn't answer, sits down on the

couch beside her.

She gets up, closes the door, sits back down again next to

Joe.  A warm, awkward silence, they move closer to each

other, now they fall into a foreplay which Susan recognizes

as such, Joe, on the other hand, participates hungrily but

has no knowledge where it is leading.  His movements are

instinctive, the smell of her hair, the shape of her fin-

gers, odd things about her seem to interest him.  This

excites her because she senses his untutoredness and the

very sense of that stirs her, their reactions to each other

are intuitive and spontaneous; even though Joe has no know-

ledge of how to make love to a woman, ironically his actions

are such that they never beg the question -- has he done it

before.

Strange territory for Joe, not to be 'in control' and exert-

ing his power, but his inventions and responses in lovemak-

ing are so real that an emotional exchange between he and

Susan builds.  Joe has found himself in an unexplored land

of feeling and passion, he loves what is happening and yet

at the same time, is terrified by it.  He feels himself being

lured by some power he has not only never been aware of, but

is deeply dangerous to partake of; he knows what he is doing

is putting who he is at great risk, yet he goes right on.

The powerful contradiction is transmitted to Susan, and in

the end there is the knowledge they have together made a

journey, they both have been swept away in a stream of events

they have created; and they don't care about the consequences.

Spent, they lie in silence.  Finally Susan speaks:

Joe senses an opportunity not only to admit to what she has

said, but to tell her more, even the truth about himself.

He weighs, then resists, the impulse.

Her head nestles underneath his arm, she has a sense of his

comforting her without knowing that he is doing so.

She laughs at the earnestness with which he answers.

Joe seems to drift away now, they lie together as one but for

the first time, she feels separate from him, sensing him gone

to some distant, distant land.

A moment.

Another moment.

She smiles.

INT. FOYER, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE (LATER) - DAY

Joe and Susan are at the front door, he has helped her

on with her coat, she turns around, they kiss.  The kiss

lingers, Susan breaks away, reaches for the door, looks back

longingly at Joe and then she is gone, Joe closing the door

softly after her.

He turns back into the foyer, looks up, Parrish is on the

balcony, it is clear he has observed Joe and Susan.

Parrish, in a state of shock, doesn't answer for a moment.

He starts up the stairs.

Joe waits guardedly at the bottom of the stairs as Parrish

descends.

Joe senses Parrish's tone, doesn't answer.

Parrish measures Joe.

Joe doesn't answer, riveted now on Parrish.

Parrish's jaw sets.

Silence.  Now Joe turns on his heel, heads right out the

front door.  Parrish is left solitary, confounded, staring

at the closed door.

INT. EMERGENCY ROOM AREA, NEW YORK HOSPITAL - DAY

Joe walks down a hallway, a bouquet of flowers in hand,

looks around the usual feverish activity, he seems lost for

the moment, but a Receptionist catches his eye.

He looks at the flowers, regards them for a moment, then

heads for an elevator.

INT. EASTER'S ROOM, NEW YORK HOSPITAL - DAY

Easter is sitting up in bed, hooked up to an TV and moni-

tors.  She glances over at the doorway, Joe is standing

there, observing her.  An awkward silence, he looks at

his flowers again, now sets them respectfully on Easter's

bedstand.

Joe speaks to her in the dialect.

Silence, then Easter smiles.

She thinks about this for the moment, Joe grows uncomfort-

able.

Joe seems slightly tormented by the question, Easter senses

him trying to frame a respect.

Silence, Easter waits, watching Joe.

Easter's response stops Joe cold, he looks away and then

back at her, she had clearly reached him.

Easter considers Joe, she smiles sympathetically.

Easter drifts into silence, her eyes and Joe's meet, a sense

they understand each other.  Easter shifts, trying hard to

ease her discomfort.

She looks at him and nods gratefully and closes her eyes.

Joe watches her, now his eyes close.  Easter exhales

raspingly, falls still.  The monitors flatline.  A beeping

alarm sound somewhere down the hall.

Joe opens his eyes, takes a deep breath, he seems troubled.

She slips out of the room.

INT. LIBRARY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Parrish is playing solitaire.  The SOUND of the front door

closing, HEELS crossing the foyer, he looks up, at the foyer

door is Susan.

He starts to get up, she motions to him to stay, looks

around now.

A silence.

Susan seems distracted.

Parrish blinks, stares down at his cards.

Parrish tries to get hold of himself, changes gear now.

Susan doesn't answer for a moment.

A moment.

There is something in Susan's tone that lets him know not a

word has sunk in.  Parrish slumps.

She kisses Parrish, rearranges one of his ranks of cards,

shuffles through the deck, turns over the top card, lays

down a card Parrish needs.

Parrish watches as Susan turns, disappears out the door.

EXT. THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY - TWILIGHT

Joe walking disconcertedly up the street, bumping shoulders

with the rush hour crowd, trapped in the life of the city,

he peers intently at faces, cars, into store windows.  He

stops now at the window of a Korean grocery, something has

caught his eye, he steps inside.

Through the window, Joe can be seen making a purchase, he

hands the Korean Clerk some money, walks out.

Joe, back on the street now, unscrews the top of a jar of

peanut butter, dips a wad out with his fingers.  The Korean

Clerk runs out after him.

Joe stops, uncomprehending.  The Clerk hands Joe bills and

coins.

Joe tries to hand the money back, but the baffled Clerk

refuses it.

The Clerk, exasperated, murmurs something in his language

and returns to the store.  Joe continues on down the street.

INT. LIBRARY, PARRISH TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Parrish is sitting in a wing chair staring at the fire.  Joe

appears in the doorway, Parrish doesn't notice him.  Joe

waits, finally Parrish looks up.  They regard each other.

Silence.

Joe doesn't respond, Parrish and Joe measure each other for

the moment.

Parrish nods, Joe nods back.

EXT. HELICOPTER POV, HUDSON VALLEY - AFTERNOON

A bird's eye view of the Hudson, over the George Washington

Bridge, past the widest expanse of the river at the Tappan

Zee, coming in now over the great lawns and old estates of

the Upper Hudson Valley, down towards Annadale-on-Hudson

and the Parrish country estate, which commands a beehive of

activity, tents and workmen and vehicles.

EXT. PARRISH COUNTRY ESTATE - AFTERNOON

The Parrish AStar sets down in its roped-off landing area.

The Butler runs towards it to open the door, Parrish and

Joe disembark.  Following the Butler, they make their way

through the maelstrom: tents being raised, platforms for

music groups, portable pools with clusters of florists

leaning over the edge to arrange lily pads within.  Parrish

and Joe move solemnly, observing the activity, not speaking

to one another.  Although they are shoulder-to-shoulder,

there is a distance between them.  They walk on past chan-

deliers in the garden and fake trees with lights woven

through their branches.  Adding to the confusion, the AStar

lifts off, the chandeliers rocking and floral pools rippling

from the blast of the rotors.  May, the housekeeper, appears.

Parrish nods, starts up for a wing off the main house, Joe

right at his side.  Parrish stops.

Joe, not knowing whether to be affronted or not, hesitates,

and Parrish strides away.  Joe does not follow.

INT. PARRISH'S STUDY, COUNTRY ESTATE - AFTERNOON

A low-slung but well-appointed room with a writing table, a

working fireplace, expensive and appropriate Hudson Valley

prints.

Parrish enters, clicks on the SPEAKERPHONE, observes the

party activity through a wide, bow window.

Parrish clicks off the SPEAKERPHONE, turns around and looks

out the window again, the party preparations in full swing,

colored lights are tested, they flicker on and off.

EXT. LAWNS, COUNTRY ESTATE - AFTERNOON

Allison is everywhere, Parrish emerges from his wing, she

catches his eye immediately, the calm director of a DeMille-

like epic, politely giving workers instructions, making

lightning decisions.

Parrish turns his attention now to an ice-filled fountain

encircling two giant topiary letters written in faux-

Cyrillic, a 'B' and a 'P', as rubber-booted delivery men

carefully arrange giant ice chests of caviar under each

letter.  A smile creases Parrish's face as, in an unexpected

lull, Allison backs into him at the fountain.

Parrish shakes his head.

But before she can answer, a workman is tugging at Allison's

sleeve, she turns away from Parrish to give him instructions

out of Parrish's earshot, and then turns back, they step away

now, daughter and father, alone.

Unexpectedly, Allison brushes a lock away from Parrish's

forehead, with a flick she has rearranged his hair, he

blinks, a little embarrassed, but having liked it.

A weather-beaten military parade ground pennant passes, 24th

Infantry Regiment  "C" (Charlie) Company.

The preparations are building to a climax, all the elaborate

plans coming to fruition.

Allison wades into the maelstrom now, Parrish watches her

go, swarms of purveyors and caterers following her.

EXT. WINE BAR, LAWNS, COUNTRY ESTATE - AFTERNOON

Ambrose, the head caterer, is making a last minute check

of the bar's stock, Quince ambles up, in the background the

activity has built to a pitch, waiters adjusting their uni-

forms, purveyors' trucks pulling out in a cloud of dust.

Ambrose looks at him blankly.

Joe appears, looking bewildered, jostled by caterers setting

up last-minute tables, a drummer from the band rolls his

traps past on a little cart.  Joe doesn't seem to know where

he is, when his eyes alight on Quince, he heads for this

oasis.  Ambrose sets down two bottles of wine and departs.

Quince sips the red, now the white, now he pours some of

each into one glass.

Quince smiles, nods embarrassedly.

Quince seems uncharacteristically within himself.

He drains his wine.

Joe regards Quince.

Quince drains one more glass of wine.

A moment.

Another moment.

The orchestra behind them plays a few riffs, sound checks,

getting close.

Quince nods anxiously, then smiles gratefully.  They look on

as the pre-party activities swirl on around them.

EXT. FRONT ENTRANCE, COUNTRY ESTATE - SUNSET (LATER)

The moment just before sunset, the last pre-party minutes,

a procession of guests' cars winding up to the guest house,

being directed into adjacent fields.  Susan cuts past a re-

ceiving line that files up the stairs, she skirts the house

and heads straight for the action, the party on the lawns in

the rear, climbs a terrace where she commands a view of the

event on which the curtain is just about to rise.

EXT. LAWN, COUNTRY ESTATE - SUNSET

Guests milling, emerging from the crowd Susan sees, isolated

by a fountain, Joe.  He looks up towards her, he knows she

has seen him, they proceed to a rendezvous that has not been

prearranged but which they intuit.  Susan slants through the

guests, stopping here and there, excited greetings and cha-

tter float on the wind, "He, Susie!",  "What a party",  "You

look great", she keeps moving, a shimmering wraith.

Joe is on the right coordinate to meet her, his graceful,

unfailing step carrying him speedily to a destination he is

not certain of, but where he knows he will find Susan.

EXT. GARDEN, COUNTRY ESTATE - SUNSET

The very last rays of the sun setting over the wide expanse

of river, the light catching Susan and Joe as they enter the

garden, the party forming behind them, the river flowing in

front of them.

He smiles.

Joe attempts to answer, but nothing comes out.

Again the same indescribable gesture from Joe.

A moment.

Another moment.

They are on the brink of some decision, Joe is about to make

some declaration when Allison is heard --

Allison appears.

But before he can answer --

She takes Susan's arm and marches her off, Joe, in thrall,

watches them go as the MUSIC erupts behind them, as 'up'

dance tune, a lilting, catchy melody envelops them all.  The

curtain has risen on William Parrish's 65th birthday party.

INT. PARRISH'S STUDY, COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT

Quince is "on the carpet", sweating through a confession,

Parrish moroses but  philosophical at his desk.

A KNOCK on the door, it opens, Joe appears.

He starts to step out.

As Joe enters, Quince flashes a warm smile at him.

Quince now drifts off.

Joe steps in.

Parrish is impressed by Joe's acumen, a look of grudging

admiration.  He nods to Joe, summarizes:

He heads out, Parrish and Joe fall silent.

A moment.

Another moment.

Parrish is stunned.

Joe doesn't answer for a moment.

Joe is silent for a moment, cogitating.

Joe doesn't answer.

Parrish is beginning to reach Joe.

A pause, Parrish's posture changes.

Joe has received what Parrish has said.

Parrish lets his words drift into silence, he shrugs, Joe

regards him.

EXT. LAWNS, COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT

Joe makes his way down the path from Parrish's study, a

weight on his shoulders, his step measured, within himself

until he is hit by the lights and laughter and MUSIC of the

party.  He drifts into the center and runs right into Susan,

couples swirl about them, the eye of a storm of gaiety.

She smiles.

He hesitates, reaches out to take her hand, studies it.

A moment.

He stammers into silence.

Joe is about to respond but doesn't.

But he drifts again, now she takes his hand.

Joe shifts, she smiles at his embarrasement.

Joe seems resigned now, the air gone out of him.

Joe blinks, at a loss.

Joe doesn't answer, Susan is suddenly anxious.

He touches her face.

A moment.

She waits.  He kisses her, they fall into a deep embrace.

Joe's silence is heavy.

Joe is struggling with a response, finally, inevitably, he

drifts into a long silence.  Susan is beside herself, her

emotions tossed in every direction, Joe steadies her.

He holds on tight to her.  They are desperately entwined

until finally she releases him.

She smiles wanly, Joe leaves her.

INT. PARRISH'S STUDY, COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT

Parrish is seated by the window, lights from the party

flashing past, the MUSIC and laughter audible but muted,

the fever of the celebration lost on him, within himself.

Joe enters, Parrish looks up.

Parrish waits.

The tension in Parrish's body releases, he takes a breath.

Joe nods an acknowledgement, but his face reflects his pain.

Parrish regards him sympathetically.

The silence is broken by a KNOCK on the door.  Parrish, out

of politeness to Joe, does not respond.

After a moment.

Quince appears, flushed with excitement.

Parrish weighs the information for a moment.

Joe shrugs, nods gently.

Quince exits, Parrish presses the button for the speaker-

phone.

EXT. LAWNS, COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT

An area on the fringe of the party, the helicopter blades

stop spinning.  Quince hurries to the aircraft door, opens

it and Drew steps out.  Quince leads the way through the

lights and MUSIC.  Drew, fashioning an imperial entrance for

himself, hails partygoers as he passes, Quince enjoying the

irony.

He flashes a pleased-as-punch greeting to some unseen

acquaintance as they press on to Parrish's study.

INT. PARRISH'S STUDY, COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT

Parrish is at his desk, Joe in a distant corner of the room.

Drew enters with Quince, Quince nods, excusing himself, and

closes the door behind him.

A moment.

Drew takes a seat.

Joe can no longer control himself.

Parrish is struck dumb.  He looks at Joe pleadingly, shaking

his head imperceptibly, but Joe nods to him blithely -- and

then commandingly.

Drew is stunned, Joe glances at Parrish, hesitates.

Joe is at a loss, Parrish's eyes are glued to his, Joe gets

the hint.

Drew's head swivels from Joe to Parrish and back again.

Silence.

Drew is all attention.

Joe steps forward.

Drew slumps.

Sloane's voice erupts over the SPEAKERPHONE.

A chorus of thunderous "Yes"es resounds through the

SPEAKERPHONE.

Parrish clicks the speakerphone off.  Drew is staring at

Joe, shaking his head.

Silence.  Joe shrugs, smiles.

The door flies open, an anxious Allison appears.

She pulls him out of his chair, hustles him out of the room,

Joe right behind them.

EXT. LAWNS, COUNTRY ESTATE - NIGHT

The guests have formed themselves into a huge audience, the

orchestra strikes up "Happy Birthday" as Parrish appears

with Allison.  An enormous cake is unveiled with one great,

lit candle, Parrish beams then laughs.  He pauses over the

cake, now blows the candle out.  APPLAUSE, cries of "Speech!

Speech!", Parrish tries to demur but the request becomes

loud and rhythmic, he holds up his hand, nods, quiets the

crowd.  Joe observes from the fringe.

YELLS of "No!"  "Never!"

Parrish hesitates, waves and steps away, APPLAUSE that grows

into CHEERS, the music resumes, another dance tune.  Quince

grabs him, pumps his hand and claps him on the back.  Now

Parrish spots Allison, he wraps her in a tight embrace, they

hold each other close for a moment, but then are separated

by a surge of guests.  Parrish sees Susan, she smiles but

there is a tinge of sadness about her.  He heads towards her,

they are somehow situated as if they were alone in this crowd.

A moment.

Susan is examining Parrish very closely.

Parrish hesitates.

Susan is in pain now, she can't summon an answer.

They drift into silence.

After a moment.

A long silence, Susan smiles.

Silence again.

They regard each other, a long pause, they have reached an

understanding.

He starts to lead her to the floor, immediately stops.

He takes her in his arms and they dance away.

ANOTHER ANGLE

On a distant fringe of the party, a grass terrace that still

commands a view of the dance floor, is Joe.  His eyes are on

Parrish and Susan, he watches them admiringly yet ruefully.

A Waiter passes, catches sight of Joe, stops.

Joe regards the Waiter for a moment.

The Waiter hesitates.

The Waiter moves off.  Joe's attention returns to Parrish and

Susan, the dance number ends, a BOOM.

ANOTHER ANGLE

On the dance floor.

Parrish looks up, sees Joe up on the terrace, waiting.

Suddenly he hugs her, holds her very close.  She looks at

him, he smiles, nods, but doesn't release her until she

smiles back.  Now she heads out with the crowd for the

fireworks.  When Parrish senses she is on her way, he turns

and heads up towards Joe.

Joe rises to meet Parrish as he approaches.

They watch the guests gathering to view the fireworks.

Joe's gaze lingers.

Silence.

Joe waits.

Joe regards Parrish, waits until he has a sense that Parrish

has accepted what Joe has said, then Joe continues:

Parrish waits.

A moment.

Joe barely manages a smile, now looks back longingly at the

crowd below, searching.

A silence, an understanding there is another more to say.

Joe looks inquiringly at Parrish as if to say "Shall we?",

Parrish nods and Joe turns with him.  They set off now away

from the party, up a meadow that leads to a hill overlooking

the river.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Down below, the party guests' faces are lit by the initial

fireworks display.  Among them is Susan, but her interest

isn't there.  Not something pulls her attention, an over-

powering feeling that compels her to turn and see, at a

distance, Parrish and Joe walking away up the meadow.  Some-

thing about the sight saddens and at the same time frightens

her, she turns back to the party, dazed, tracing on the

fireworks.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Up the hill Parrish's step slows, Joe slowing with him.

But Parrish doesn't wait for a response, just continues on

up the meadow, towards the rise of the hill, Joe in step

with him.

Joe stops, Parrish stops with him.

Parrish smiles faintly, takes a deep breath, he strides

out again, Joe right with him.  In tandem they continue

on and disappear over the crest of the hill.  A barrage

of fireworks lights up the sky.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Down below, Susan, in a pained reflex, again turns and looks

up towards the hill.  There is nobody there.  She hesitates,

now glides away from the party, her step quickens as she

walks up towards the hill.

Susan halts, in the distance a figure is approaching from

over the crest of the hill where Joe and Parrish disappeared.

He is heading straight for her, she tries to make him out,

seems to recognize him, starts to walk towards him as if

pulled by a magnet.  Now she stops again.  It is a man, he

keeps coming, and now that he is close and recognizes him.

He smiles quizzically, hasn't quite heard her, stands right

in front of her, loose, smiling, disoriented and yet so

appealing.  They are riveted on each other, uneasy and yet

close.

He is trying to get his bearings.

Something about him makes Susan slightly tentative.

Joe shrugs, scratches his head endearingly, uncertain of

time and place.

Some realization is dawning on Susan, it renders her

lightheaded.

Susan regards Joe intently, searching his face for an

answer.

Susan blinks, a long silence, she touches the sleeve of his

jacket, now her hand traces the outline of his face, she

regards him intently and the dilemma she has been struggling

with the last moments fades away.

Susan slowly realizes this is the Young Man. She is shaken,

a sudden intake of breath.

His hand politely touches her elbow, courteously lending her

support.

The Young Man nods, pleased with her recognition.

Susan holds herself very still.

He hesitates.

A moment.

She falls silent now, overcome by the last moments'

revelations.  The Young Man senses her discomfort which

is on the edge of pain.

She doesn't answer for a moment.

She searches the Young Man's eyes, his face is open,

completely vulnerable, waiting for her response.  A long

silence, the words come out haltingly:

Another moment.

Susan signs, the Young Man smiles gently, they are

completely intent on each other.

A long silence.

Susan smiles, the fireworks finale goes off, the MUSIC comes

up from below, the night fills with light.  The Young Man

searches Susan's face, now takes her hand -- and together

they start back towards the party.

THE END

