INT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. DAY

A landing at the top of a crooked, wooden staircase. There is

a threadbare, braided rug on the floor. There is a long, wide

corridor decorated with faded paintings of sailboats and

battleships. The wallpapers are sun-bleached and peeling at

the corners except for a few newly-hung strips which are

clean and bright. A small easel sits stored in the corner.

Outside, a hard rain falls, drumming the roof and rattling

the gutters.

A ten-year-old boy in pajamas comes up the steps carefully

eating a bowl of cereal as he walks. He is Lionel. Lionel

slides open the door to a low cabinet under the window. He

takes out a portable record player, puts a disc on the

turntable, and sets the needle into the spinning groove.

A child's voice says over the speaker:

As Lionel listens, three other children wander out of their

bedrooms and down to the landing.

The first is an eight-year-old boy in a bathrobe. He is

Murray. The second is a nine-year-old boy in white boxer

shorts and a white undershirt. He is Rudy. The third is a

twelve-year-old girl in a cardigan sweater with knee-high

socks and brightly polished, patent-leather shoes. She is

Suzy. She carries a one-month-old striped kitten.

The boys drop down to the floor next to their brother. They

lie on their stomachs with their chins propped up on their

fists, listening.

Suzy sits in the windowsill. She opens a book called Shelly

and the Secret Universe. There is an illustration on the

cover of a young gymnast with a glowing amulet around her

neck.

Suzy starts to read -- then pauses. She lowers her book. She

raises a pair of junior binoculars to her eyes. She looks out

into the rain.

EXT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. DAY

A rickety, three-story, stone-and-shingle house on a hillside

with turrets and a widow's walk. A weather vane swings

creaking on the roof. Tree tops sway in a cluster below. The

sea is almost invisible in the misting rain, and the mainland

is a shadow across the sound. Suzy sits in the high window,

watching.

The family stuck indoors all day out of the rain.

In bedrooms, bathrooms, and corridors, we see the boys. They

shoot marbles. They throw jacks. They play cards. They eat

grilled cheese sandwiches together in the kitchen.

In half-open doorways, we see the parents. Mr. Bishop is a

tall, fifty-year-old man in Madras trousers and horn-rimmed

glasses. He reads the newspaper and drinks coffee. Mrs.

Bishop is a tan, forty-five-year-old woman in a Lilly

Pulitzer-type wrap-around skirt. She washes her hair,

topless, in the kitchen sink.

In windows, we see Suzy with her binoculars. She watches wet

branches shaking in the woods. She watches a man in a slicker

fishing from a row-boat. She watches a white colt in a field.

She eats a bowl of tomato soup alone in the pantry.

In the distance, a seaplane flies by below the clouds.

The edge of a cliff above a white beach. A rocky peninsula

curls into the background. Brisk wind rustles the tall grass.

A fifty-year-old man, bald on top with long hair on the

sides, stands next to a surveyor's levelling instrument on a

tripod. He wears rubber boots and a parka. He is the

narrator. He speaks to the camera:

EXT. SCOUT CAMP. DAY

A clearing in the woods with ten small, khaki tents pitched

in a row. A banner on a flag-pole ripples in the wind. It

reads Camp Ivanhoe. A bugler in a khaki uniform with a yellow

neckerchief plays a staccato tattoo. He has a gauze patch

over one eye. He is Lazy-Eye.

A thirty-five-year-old man in the same uniform emerges

through the flaps of a larger tent. He is Scout Master Ward.

He puts on a wide-brimmed felt hat. A badge on the crown

reads Khaki Scouts, Troop 55. He lights a cigarette. A thin

scout with curly hair and sunglasses joins him at his side.

He is Gadge.

Gadge flips open a small, spiral-bound note-book. Scout

Master Ward goes over to a latrine made from thick sticks and

rope. A tall, stooped scout digs a trench next to it with an

army-shovel. He is Deluca.

Deluca stops digging. He pulls on a rope and water runs down

a chute. It bursts through a valve, spins a little door, and

a small, red flag flips up. Scout Master Ward nods.

Gadge makes a note. Scout Master Ward strides away. He stops

in front of a scout with long hair over his eyes sitting on a

stump twisting something in his fingers. He is Roosevelt.

A small, woven, multi-colored cord with a rabbit's foot

attached to the end of it. It has been braided exceedingly

badly and is brutally twisted and misshapen.

Scout Master Ward studies the lanyard briefly. He looks

perplexed. He pats Roosevelt on the back gently and does a

secret handshake with him. Gadge makes a note. Scout Master

Ward strides away.

An off-road motorcycle races by in the background behind the

tents. It jumps a mound of dirt, kicks sideways in the air,

and revs away riding a wheelie. Scout Master Ward frowns.

Scout Master Ward stops in front of a pile of boards and logs

stacked six feet high. A thick-set scout with black hair and

a crooked tooth approaches with more logs in his arms. He is

Skotak.

Skotak points up. Scout Master Ward squints. There is a small

platform under construction about sixty feet above them. Two

scouts are sawing something in half on it. Scout Master Ward

looks astonished.

Scout Master Ward circles around the trunk while looking up

at the tree house. He stammers:

Gadge makes a note. Skotak looks sheepish. Scout Master Ward

strides away. He stops in front of a very small scout with

tiny eyes poking at an anthill with a stick. He appears to be

contemplating pouring lighter fluid on it. He is Nickleby.

Nickleby stands up. He looks extremely disheveled.

Gadge makes a note. Nickleby slouches. Scout Master Ward

strides away. He stops in front of a work-bench covered with

newspaper where one scout sifts green powder through a funnel

into cardboard tubes and another makes wax stoppers with a

metal press. They are Panagle and Izod. A sign on the side of

the table reads No Smoking. Scout Master Ward hands his

cigarette to Gadge, who holds it away at arm's length.

Gadge shakes his head. Scout Master Ward turns to Izod.

Izod dashes around the corner. Scout Master Ward strides

away. He shouts:

The motorcycle skids to a stop in front of Scout Master Ward,

engulfing him in a thick cloud of dust. He coughs and waves

his arms in the air. As the smoke clears, we see that the

rider is a bronze, all-American-looking boy with blond hair.

He is Redford. His motorcycle has flames painted on the gas

tank. He tries to cover for himself:

Gadge makes a note. Redford scowls. Scout Master Ward strides

away. He walks past a scout in a white apron cooking bacon

over a charcoal grill. He is Chef.

Chef rings a bell hanging on a post. Scout Master Ward

arrives at a long picnic table. He sits down and opens a

magazine called Indian Corn. There is a picture on the cover

of a scout troop crossing a bridge in Indonesia.

The first page. A caption across the top reads Scout Master-

in-Chief. There is a drawing of a seventy-year-old man on

horseback. He has silver hair and a moustache. A signature

below reads Commander Pierce. There is a quotation in large

text: "An eagle was never hatched from a goose's egg."

As Scout Master Ward reads, all the scouts begin to join him

one-by-one. They range in age from twelve to fifteen. They

unscrew the tops of tin mess-kits and assemble folding

utensils. The chef brings a tray of scrambled eggs to the

table. The scouts serve themselves noisily.

Scout Master Ward starts to take a sip of coffee from a metal

cup -- then stops. He looks up from his magazine.

Scout Master Ward silently reels off a list of names,

scanning the troop. He turns and shouts across the camp:

Silence. Scout Master Ward calls to Lazy-Eye:

Lazy-Eye plays another tattoo. Silence.

Scout Master Ward closes his magazine. He flicks his

cigarette into a red bucket labelled Fire. He picks up a

strip of bacon and chews on it as he rises to his feet and

walks down the row of smaller tents. The last one is sealed

at the front. Scout Master Ward stands with his hands on his

hips and says:

Scout Master Ward tugs on the tent's flaps. He frowns. He

says to Gadge:

The other scouts begin to gather with their tin breakfast

plates in their hands, watching curiously while they eat.

Scout Master Ward's voice softens:

Scout Master Ward looks concerned. He produces a wooden-

handled scout pocket-knife. He unfolds a few blades and

gadgets and decides quickly on a thin tool with a hook on the

end. He crouches down and slips the hook through a small gap

at the base of the flap, twists left and right, then pulls up

briskly, unzipping the tent.

INT. SCOUT TENT. DAY

The lining of the tent is printed with images of trees and

pine cones, and a plaid rug covers the floor. There is a foot

locker, a gas lamp, a chair with a folded blanket over it,

and an empty cot. Scout Master Ward steps inside slowly, bent

over, examining the space. He lifts the lid of the foot

locker. He looks under the corner of the mattress. He picks

up a piece of folded yellow notebook paper sticking out from

under a pillow. He opens it and stares at it. He turns

suddenly to the chair against the wall of the tent and slides

it aside.

There is neat but slightly jagged hole the size of a

basketball cut through the fabric in the back corner. Scout

Master Ward looks to his staring troop.

EXT. POLICE STATION. DAY

A one-room bungalow with a sign on the door that reads Island

Police. There is a wood-panelled station wagon parked

alongside it with roller-lights on the roof and a sheriff's

office insignia on the door. (This is the only car on the

island.) A dock stretches from the cottage into a small

harbor. There is a launch moored at the end of it which bobs

in the rough tide.

A silver Airstream trailer is parked under a tree nearby.

A six-foot tall, forty-five-year-old man sits on a stool

fishing from the side of the dock. He wears a short-sleeved

police uniform with a black necktie and a baseball cap. His

glasses have clear, plastic frames and a strap. He is Captain

Sharp.

Two grouchy, leathery, very old men in plaid flannel and

hunting caps fish alongside Captain Sharp. A speaker on a

post emits an electric buzz. Captain Sharp turns. He stands

up briskly and says to one of the old men:

INT. POLICE STATION. DAY

A small office with a desk, a file cabinet, and a two-way

radio. Captain Sharp comes inside, sits down, grabs a

microphone, and presses a red button on the side of it with

his thumb.

Scout Master Ward's voice comes over a crackly speaker:

Captain Sharp pours himself a cup of coffee from a pot on a

hot-plate as he answers distractedly:

Silence. Captain Sharp frowns slightly.

Captain Sharp slowly stirs sugar into his coffee as he

contemplates this. He says finally:

A sheet of wide-ruled yellow paper which reads in a boy's

Captain Sharp scratches his head. He checks his watch. Pause.

EXT. POST OFFICE. DAY

A clapboard cottage surrounded by a white, picket fence. A

sign on the door reads U.S. Mail. Captain's Sharp station

wagon is parked in the background.

INT. POST OFFICE. DAY

A young woman with her hair in a bun sits at an operator's

switchboard eating a sandwich wrapped in wax-paper. She is

Becky. She wears bulky head-phones with a microphone

attached. Captain Sharp paces behind her. Scout Master Ward

flips through a stack of letters and post cards.

A bell rings on the switchboard. Becky plugs cords into

sockets.

Becky signals to Captain Sharp and Scout Master Ward. They

sit down quickly and put on their own sets of operator head-

phones.

Split-screen. On one side of the frame, we see Captain Sharp,

Scout Master Ward, and Becky. On the other side, we see a

seventy-five-year-old man with a grizzled face sitting at a

kitchen table drinking coffee and smoking a cigarette while a

white-haired woman ices a cake in the background. They are

Mr. and Mrs. Billingsley. Mr. Billingsley says into his

Captain Sharp, Scout Master Ward, and Becky all look puzzled.

Captain Sharp says evenly:

Long pause. No one moves except Mrs. Billingsley icing her

cake. Captain Sharp says finally:

Mr. Billingsley frowns. He says, surprised:

Mrs. Billingsley has stopped icing her cake. She watches Mr.

Billingsley. Scout Master Ward interjects:

Scout Master Ward holds up a manila file-card. Mr.

Billingsley shrugs.

The manila file-card. It is labelled Khaki Scout Register.

Sam Shakusky is typed across the top line. There is an

address, health information, and a small, faded snap-shot

stapled to the corner of it of a twelve-year-old boy standing

in a sunny tobacco field. He wears his scout uniform with a

Davy Crockett-style coon-skin cap.

Scout Master Ward looks quickly through his stack of letters.

He stops and pulls out an air-mail envelope. He stares at it.

Captain Sharp says forcefully but highly agitated:

Mr. Billingsley hangs up the telephone. Becky pulls the cords

out of their sockets. Captain Sharp looks to Scout Master

Ward. Silence.

Becky opens a tin of home-made chocolate chip cookies.

Captain Sharp declines one. Scout Master Ward tries one. He

looks very impressed.

EXT. SCOUT CAMP. DAY

Scout Master Ward stands on a bench addressing his assembled

troop. The scouts are equipped for hiking with back-packs and

walking-sticks.

Lazy-Eye raises his hand. Scout Master Ward points to him.

Lazy-Eye shrugs. Scout Master Ward frowns.

Redford raises his hand. Scout Master Ward points to him.

The scouts murmur their understanding. Scout Master Ward

nods.

Pause. Scout Master Ward wheels back to Lazy-Eye:

The scouts look impressed but slightly lost. Scout Master

Ward says finally:

Skotak holds up a leash attached to a wire-haired terrier.

Scout Master Ward takes a sock with a fleur-de-lis on it out

of a paper sack.

Scout Master Ward hands the sock to Skotak.

Redford, Deluca, Nickleby, Lazy-Eye, and Gadge at the back of

the group talking under their breath while Skotak waves the

sock under the dog's nose:

The troop moves in a wide line searching through a thicket of

skinny trees. Redford carries a net and a giant tomahawk in a

sling. Deluca has a large hunting knife tucked under his

belt. Panagle holds a walking stick with a cluster of nails

sticking out on the end of it. Nickleby, Izod, and Lazy-Eye

all wear bows and quivers of arrows strapped to their backs.

The wire-haired terrier strains at the end of a leash,

sniffing down a foot-path.

Scout Master Ward speeds up the river in a small boat with an

out-board motor. He gives orders over a walkie-talkie. Gadge

steers.

Captain Sharp stands on the doorsteps of various big houses

showing the snap-shot of the missing scout to: an elderly

woman, a house-keeper, a group of children, a priest. They

all shake their heads.

Captain Sharp drives his station wagon down a beach, through

a field, and over a bridge.

EXT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. DAY

Captain Sharp stands at the front door talking with Mr. and

Mrs. Bishop. Mr. Bishop holds a glass of red wine in one hand

and an open bottle in the other. Mrs. Bishop looks slightly

uneasy. They both study the snap-shot.

A binocular shot of Captain Sharp from overhead as he walks

away down the front steps. He passes Lionel, Murray, and Rudy

on their way up the path. They wear wet bathing suits and

towels around their shoulders. Captain Sharp pats Rudy on the

top of his head. He dries his hand on the leg of his

trousers. He gets into his station wagon, backs out of the

driveway, circles through the woods, and drives around to a

small dirt road a hundred yards behind the house. He stops

the car. He gets out, sits on the hood, and lights a

cigarette.

Suzy watches from the widow's walk with her binoculars. She

lowers them. She looks curious. She raises them back to her

eyes and sees:

Mrs. Bishop from overhead as she comes out the back door of

the house carrying a basket of damp laundry. She pauses at a

clothesline, looks left and right, then walks quickly into

the trees. She crosses a foot-bridge and arrives at the dirt

road. Captain Sharp stands up. They talk briefly but

intensely. Mrs. Bishop leans against the car and stares into

space. Captain Sharp touches her hair. Mrs. Bishop makes a

gesture with her fingers. Captain Sharp hands her his

cigarette. Mrs. Bishop takes a puff, hands it back, and

strides away again through the woods. Captain Sharp gets into

his station wagon and drives off.

A portable night stand. There is a reel-to-reel tape recorder

recording on it. A framed photograph next to it shows the

Scout-Master-in-Chief posing with a troop in front of the

Matterhorn.

INT. SCOUT MASTER WARD'S TENT. NIGHT

The front flaps are tied-open, and a mosquito net is drawn. A

hanging lantern flickers on a hook. A bugle plays a variation

of taps in the distance. Scout Master Ward sits on a cot

dressed in pajamas. He smokes a cigarette and drinks a glass

of brandy while he speaks tensely into a microphone:

Scout Master Ward presses stop. He kneels down on the floor,

closes his eyes, presses his palms together, and whispers.

EXT. SCOUT CAMP. NIGHT

Scout Master Ward zips up his tent and turns off the light.

Crickets chirp. Bats circle. The wire-haired terrier digs

carefully through a pile of trash.

EXT. NARROW STREAM. DAY

The next morning. A fast current runs along a shallow ravine

deep in the forest. The boy from the snap-shot rows a mini-

canoe painted with Native American tribal symbols and

severely over-loaded with boxes, bags, and blankets. He wears

a pellet gun slung on a strap over his shoulder and his coon-

skin cap. He smokes a pipe. A sash across his chest is

decorated with numerous small, embroidered patches. There is

a woman's enamelled brooch pinned to his shirt. It is a

jeweled, black scorpion. He whistles to himself quietly as he

steers under a fallen tree-trunk and winds through gentle

rapids. He is Sam.

EXT. RIVER BANK. DAY

An eddy under a willow tree. The end of the canoe is tied to

a branch, and the cargo is stacked on the shore. Sam covers

the boat with a camouflage net and dresses the top with pine-

needles.

EXT. ROCKY GORGE. DAY

Sam hikes through a pass wearing an extremely large back-pack

with stakes, metal poles, and two bed-rolls strapped to the

bottom. He wears a compass on a string around his neck.

A binocular shot of Sam emerging from the woods into a wide

meadow. The grass comes up to his chest and flows in waves.

He pauses to check his compass. He spins slowly one direction

and then back the other while he stares at the dial. He looks

up again. He walks onward. He stops.

EXT. WIDE MEADOW. DAY

Suzy lowers her binoculars. She stands at the end of a path

cut through the high grass. She has a leather folder in one

hand, the portable record player in the other, plus a small

suitcase and her kitten in a basket at her side. Sam takes

his coon-skin hat slowly off his head. He strides across the

meadow. Suzy watches him approach. She swallows. Her lips

part. Sam comes onto the path. He stops ten feet away from

Suzy.

Sam and Suzy stare at each other. Silence. (NOTE: Suzy is

slightly taller than Sam.)

A poster box with St. Jack's Church across the top. A purple-

ink mimeographed page is stapled to a bulletin board inside

under the heading Summer Pageant, 1964. It reads:

Dusk. A brick church at the top of a bluff overlooking the

bay. It is overgrown with ivy and wisteria. There is a

cemetery with a low wrought-iron fence. An organ plays

inside.

INT. EPISCOPAL CHURCH. EVENING

A play is in progress. The set includes a long ark with a

sail built on a platform behind the altar. Two teenagers

crouched in the wings ripple a narrow, blue sheet across the

foot of the stage. (This is meant to be water.) The rest of

the room is dim, with tall candles flickering along the

center aisle. The beams are draped with garlands. A large

congregation fills every pew plus folding chairs against the

walls. More people sit and stand on the steps to the choir

loft at the back and in nooks and corners. The members of a

brass ensemble seated beside the organist wait for their next

cue, following their sheet music with instruments poised.

Khaki Scouts and scout masters occupy the rear section of the

church. A very young troop in a slightly different version of

the uniform fills a row near the exit. Sam sits on the aisle.

He looks bored.

A baritone built like a linebacker in robes and a fake beard

sings ominously on the stage. Cymbals crash. Sam stands up

and discreetly wanders toward the side door with his hands in

his pockets. A slight, forty-year-old man in the same uniform

watches him from the end of the pew, frowning.

Sam quietly entering the lobby. The sound of the music

deadens as he gently shuts the door behind him. He turns

around and puts on a yellow scout cap with Junior Khaki

stitched on the bill. The room is jammed with children

dressed as animals, waiting nervously in a long line that

winds all around the space. They whisper and shuffle. A large

woman stares through a small window into the church with her

hand on a doorknob. She is Mrs. Lynn. She snaps her fingers

suddenly without looking to the children. They fall silent.

Pause.

Mrs. Lynn swings open the center doors. Music fills the room

again. The first twenty of the children begin to sing. They

march out of the lobby, two by two. The woman closes the

doors behind them, and the next group takes their place to

wait.

Sam walks slowly among otters, monkeys, squirrels, and

skunks, examining their costumes, periodically touching

horns, tusks, and teeth. No one pays attention to him. He

drinks a sip from a water fountain. He picks up a mint from a

bowl and sucks on it. He slips out through a swinging door.

INT. DRESSING ROOM. EVENING

Sam moves down a dark corridor. Voices murmur. He pokes his

head around a corner. A rack of choir robes and cassocks

blocks his path. He slides two of them apart and looks

Five eleven-year-old girls in black leotards sitting on a

bench in front of a mirror framed with light bulbs. They talk

quietly and fix their make-up. They all wear wings on their

arms and beaks on their heads. Suzy sits among them in black

feathers. Sam stares at her. He steps into the light

silently. Suzy sees him in the reflection. The other girls

turn around quickly, covering themselves.

Sam removes his cap and takes another step forward. His eyes

dart briefly among the other girls. He says to Suzy:

Suzy hesitates. She looks to the girl next to her, who says

in a bossy voice:

Sam does not look away from Suzy as he interrupts, pointing:

The other girls all look to Suzy. Pause.

Suzy lifts her beak slightly higher on her forehead. The

other girls look annoyed but transfixed. The bossy girl

frowns.

Sam does not look away from Suzy as he answers quietly:

Sam points down at Suzy's lap. One of her hands is wrapped in

a bandage.

Sam is deeply intrigued by this. The other girls look

puzzled. Suzy presses her hair back off her face. She watches

Sam nervously.

Sam nods with his eyes still glued to Suzy's. Suzy bites her

fingernails. The bossy girl rolls her eyes.

Sam holds up his hand for the bossy girl to stop talking.

Mrs. Lynn steps into the doorway.

Mrs. Lynn does a double-take. She snaps at Sam:

Sam hesitates. He spits the mint into a trash can, ducks out

through the clothing rack, and is gone. A skinny girl dressed

as an owl watches Suzy while the other girls hurry to their

feet. She says quietly:

EXT. CHURCH YARD. EVENING

Troops flood out from one side of the church while children

in animal costumes flood out from the other. They criss-cross

among grave-markers and head-stones. Sam stops abruptly, face

to face with the skinny owl. She whispers something, points

behind her, and thrusts a folded scrap of paper into Sam's

hand.

INT. SCHOOL BUS. NIGHT

A vehicle crowded with scouts. Sam sits alone in the back

row. He stares into space, entranced.

Suzy on-stage at the top of a pedestal with her arms in the

air, spreading her wings. She is surrounded by the entire

cast of singing animals. The music soars.

Sam as he looks down at the piece of paper in his hand.

A sheet of pink stationary with an address in a girl's red

felt-tip cursive and the words:

The present. Sam and Suzy face each other in the wide meadow.

Sam says carefully:

Sam frowns and squints. He points.

Suzy nods. Sam smiles. Suzy smiles. Sam takes a folded map

out of his pocket. He signals for Suzy to come closer.

Sam points to one of the patches on his sash. It has a

protractor embroidered on it. He unfolds the map.

Sam tears a strip of dried meat in two and gives half to

Suzy. She tries to chew on it. Sam nods:

Sam and Suzy walk together down a hill, across a field, and

through a wooded path eating beef jerky. They both smile

continuously.

Sam shows Suzy some bits of green and yellow sticking out

from under his coonskin cap.

Sam stands in a clearing and pulls a handful of dry grass. He

holds it in his fist.

Sam throws up the grass. It swirls and drifts vaguely. Suzy

squints.

Sam and Suzy stop to investigate and discuss: a patch of

mushrooms, moss on a stump, ferns, poison ivy, and a low bush

with purple fruit. Sam looks skeptical.

Suzy brushes off some dirt and eats a berry. Sam puts one

into his mouth and nods.

Sam and Suzy look through Suzy's binoculars at a deer

drinking from a stream. Suzy whispers:

Sam and Suzy walk across a fallen tree over a stream. A snake

swims on the surface below them. Sam assists Suzy onto the

far bank.

Sam picks up two pebbles. He and Suzy both put them in their

mouths. They click against their teeth.

Sam and Suzy watch a small, green worm wriggling in the air,

swaying from a silk thread. They stare, wide-eyed. Suzy cups

her hand a few inches below it and moves it around in a

circle. Sam shrugs.

Pause. The worm curls and uncurls itself gently. Sam nods.

EXT. LAKE SHORE. DAY

The banks of a large pond. All of Sam's and Suzy's bags,

boxes, and suitcases are arranged around a small tent

decorated with more tribal symbols. The kitten is asleep. Sam

and Suzy stand at the water's edge as he removes the

camouflage net from the canoe and says gravely:

Sam and Suzy both strap on vests belted with cork blocks.

A strip of bright red licorice on a hook under water.

Sam and Suzy in the middle of the lake. Suzy sits at one end

of the canoe fishing with a bamboo pole. Sam drapes his

fingers off the side and stirs the water.

Sam dips a net into the lake and brings it up with a small

turtle in it. He lifts it out of the net. It has red and

yellow markings and a slightly damaged shell. Sam flips it

over. The word Albert is written on the underside of the

turtle in magic marker. Sam says blankly:

The fishing pole jerks in Suzy's hands. She yells:

Sam jumps to his feet and heaves the turtle with two hands.

It sails through the air across the pond and splashes down

with a whack. Sam yells an announcement:

The canoe rocks violently. Suzy snaps:

Sam sits back down. Suzy winds the reel carefully. Sam says,

Sam points to one of the patches on his sash. It has a rod

and reel embroidered on it.

EXT. LAKE SHORE. DUSK

Sam twists a stick with a shoelace in kindling and builds a

small camp-fire circled with rocks. He cooks two fish with

bologna in a frying pan over a camp-fire. He throws in a dash

of salt, grinds some pepper, and flips the fish in the air.

He holds out a bite on a spatula to Suzy sitting on a log

next to him. She tastes it. She looks surprised and nods

Sam points to one of the patches on his sash. It has fried

eggs and bacon on it.

Sam serves the fish onto two tin plates. He says as they eat

with folding forks:

Sam points to a pile of bloody organs and bones on a page of

newspaper. Suzy frowns.

Suzy points to a cardboard box. Sam looks inside. It is

filled with ten cans of cat food. Sam raises an eyebrow.

Sam flips open a small, spiral-bound note-book.

Suzy opens the top of her portable record player. She

displays it like a salesman.

Sam nods and makes a note. Suzy opens her leather folder.

There are three L.P. records in it. She takes out one by a

French singer.

Sam nods and makes another note. Suzy opens her suitcase. It

is filled to the brim with hard-back copies of fantasy books.

It contains no other items of any kind (including clothing).

Sam nods and makes another note. Suzy produces a few more

Sam surveys the entire collection of articles. He scratches

his head.

Pause. Sam shrugs. He smiles.

Sam picks up one of the books. It is called The Girl from

Jupiter. There is an illustration on the cover of a young,

alien princess with glittering tears on her cheeks. Sam

examines the other books in the suitcase. He looks slightly

puzzled.

Sam hesitates. He suddenly realizes something. He asks

Silence. Suzy nods reluctantly. Sam looks confused.

Suzy stares at the books. She absently brushes some dust off

them. She rearranges them slightly. She says finally:

Sam thinks about this. He leans his chin against his fist. He

Suzy bites her fingernails. She shrugs.

Pause. Suzy says philosophically:

Suzy looks into her leather folder and shuffles through some

pages. She withdraws a small pamphlet.

The cover of the pamphlet. There is a drawing of a broken tea-

cup and the title "Coping with the Very Troubled Child".

Sam frowns. His eyes widen.

Suzy nods. Sam explodes with laughter.

Sam slaps his knee and shakes his head. Pause. Suzy dumps her

fish into the campfire and throws her metal plate like a

frisbee into a tree trunk. It bounces off with a ding. She

stands up and says coolly:

Suzy walks away. She goes behind a bush and sits down on a

rock. She starts to cry. Sam looks stricken and confused. He

is very still. He gets up slowly. He tentatively approaches

the bush. He looks behind it. He takes two steps closer. He

stands above Suzy. He unties his neckerchief, crouches down,

and holds it out.

Suzy looks to Sam. She hesitates. She takes the neckerchief.

Suzy dries her eyes. She unfolds the neckerchief and studies

its design. It is a brave shooting an arrow while leaning off

the side of a galloping horse. Sam motions to the books:

Dusk. Sam lies on his back on one of the bedrolls smoking his

pipe while Suzy sits Indian-style next to him. She reads

aloud from a book called The Francine Odyssies. There is an

illustration on the cover of an enormous panther with a

bloody sword walking behind a small girl in a nightgown.

Suzy looks to Sam. He is asleep. She takes the pipe out of

his mouth and tips the ashes into the camp-fire. She draws a

blanket over his chest. She continues:

INT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. NIGHT

The dining room. There is a long, wide, empty table with

sixteen chairs around it. Tucked in the corner, Lionel,

Murray, and Rudy sit at a folding card table. They have

plates on place-mats and forks and knives. There is one extra

seat. Mrs. Bishop's voice booms, amplified, from the next

Pause. Mrs. Bishop charges into the room with a steaming

casserole. She wears an oven mitt on one hand and carries an

electric megaphone in the other. She sets the casserole on

the card table and looks out the window. Through the thicket

of trees behind the house, a pair of headlights blinks. Mrs.

Bishop checks her watch. She says sharply:

Lionel holds up a small, folded-up piece of pink stationary.

Mrs. Bishop snaps it out of his hand and opens it.

A short note on pink stationary in a girl's red felt-tip

cursive. It reads:

Mrs. Bishop frowns. She bolts back out of the room. Her voice

There is a loud thump upstairs. Mr. Bishop shouts from

Exterior. Mr. Bishop leans out of an upstairs window. Mrs.

Bishop appears in one below. She yells up through the

Mrs. Bishop brandishes the note with her free hand.

A radio squawks in the woods behind the house. Mr. and Mrs.

Bishop turn quickly toward the sound. Mrs. Bishop looks

tense. Becky's garbled voice says over a tinny speaker:

There is a rustling and the sound of a car door opening --

then the radio cuts off. Mr. Bishop frowns. He shouts:

Captain Sharp emerges slowly from the dark, tangled in a

bramble, hopping slowly on one foot as he unwinds a root from

around his ankle. He smiles awkwardly and says:

Mr. Bishop disappears into the house. Captain Sharp and Mrs.

Bishop exchange an uncertain look.

INT. STATION WAGON. NIGHT

Captain Sharp pans a spot-light back and forth in the

darkness while he steers the car. The lamp has a short in it

and flickers with each bump. Mr. Bishop rides in the

passenger seat. He stares ahead down the road and says to

Mr. Bishop looks strangely to Captain Sharp. He asks:

Mr. Bishop looks baffled and disgusted. He throws his hands

into the air. He looks away and shakes his head. Silence.

Captain Sharp wiggles some wires.

EXT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. NIGHT

Captain Sharp and Mr. Bishop come to a stop and get out of

the station wagon. They look dejected. The screen door bangs

open, and Mrs. Bishop quickly descends the front steps with a

open shoebox full of letters in her hands. She says

breathlessly, shouting:

Captain Sharp takes one of the letters and studies it. He

says to himself:

Mr. Bishop takes a handful of the letters and flips through

them. He stops suddenly. He looks horrified.

A small painting on construction paper of a naked girl

stepping into a bathtub. She wears a flower in her hair.

Mrs. Bishop continues to shout as she explains:

Lionel, Murray, and Rudy watch from a downstairs window.

Lionel takes a bite from a bowl of melting ice cream. Mr.

Bishop stares at the painting. He squints at it and asks

Captain Sharp and Mrs. Bishop look over Mr. Bishop's

shoulder. Captain Sharp says calmly:

The history of Sam and Suzy's correspondence.

Sam, dressed in a greasy jump-suit, writes at a work bench in

a garage while six teenagers take apart carburetors behind

him. They are his foster brothers. Sam reads in voice-over:

Suzy writes at a small desk on the upstairs landing while

Lionel and Murray play a loud duet on a red piano behind her.

(Rudy turns the pages of the sheet music.) Suzy reads in

Sam works in an alley emptying garbage from several small

trash cans into a larger one. Mr. Billingsley watches

television in a window, smoking a cigarette. He points to a

crumpled wrapper on the ground. Sam picks it up.

Suzy reads a book called Disappearance of the 6th Grade.

There is an illustration on the cover of a school-teacher

levitating at the front of her classroom. There are several

watercolor pictures taped to the wall behind her. Most are

landscapes of small-town vacant lots. One is a swimming girl

in a bikini.

Sam stands in pajamas staring blankly, eyes wide, at a dog

house in flames next to a rusty swing-set. A dachsund sits

next to him, also watching. Mrs. Billingsley comes running

out of the house with a fire extinguisher.

Suzy stands in the kitchen looking out through a pane of

glass with a hole smashed in the middle of it. Mrs. Bishop is

next to her with her hair hanging over the sink while the two

of them carefully pick bits of glass out of it.

Five of Sam's foster brothers watch calmly as the sixth

throws Sam against the wall then jumps on top of him, pinning

his arms to the floor while Sam struggles crazily.

A classroom of sixth graders watches in a panic as Suzy

throttles one of her classmates. The classmate flails and

grimaces as she is strangled.

Sam does sit-ups on a hard mattress in a basement room lined

with bunks. He counts out the repetitions under his breath.

There is a small, black and white photograph of a man and

woman at their wedding tacked to the wall above him.

Suzy stands in a doorway screaming at her family while they

watch wearily from the dinner table with forks and knives in

their hands.

Sam writes in his bunk crouched beneath a blanket with a

Khaki Scout flashlight pointed at his paper.

Suzy writes in her bed crouched beneath a quilt with a

plastic lantern glowing beside her.

A sheet of wide-ruled yellow paper which reads in a boy's

A sheet of pink stationary which reads in a girl's red felt-

Suzy kneeling in the dark, crouched in front of an upper

window with the shoebox of letters beside her. Outside, the

woods are black beyond a moonlit field.

Suzy raises her binoculars to her eyes.

EXT. WIDE MEADOW. DAY

The next morning. The end of the path cut through the high

grass where Sam and Suzy met the day before. Captain Sharp,

Scout Master Ward, Mrs. Bishop, and Becky stand in two groups

talking. Gadge and Skotak stretch a string with ribbons tied

to it from stake to stake marking a perimeter. Lazy-Eye walks

with the wire-haired terrier pulling at its leash. Other

scouts search the field and scan the horizon.

Captain Sharp's station wagon and Redford's motorcycle are

parked in the dirt.

Mr. Bishop stands off to the side by himself poking at the

ground with a stick. He has two black eyes, and half his face

is swollen and purple. Scout Master Ward asks Becky quietly:

Mr. Bishop says loudly without looking up from the ground:

Scout Master Ward looks at Becky and grimaces. Becky raises

an eyebrow. Mrs. Bishop stands next to Captain Sharp. They

move slightly away from the others. Captain Sharp whispers

quickly, almost inaudibly:

Captain Sharp looks surprised and defensive. He whispers

Nickleby pops up from below the tall grass and thrusts an

empty can of cat food into the air. He shouts excitedly:

The group quickly gathers around Nickleby. Mr. Bishop

snatches the can out of his hand and examines it. He says

Mr. Bishop throws the can away over his shoulder and walks

off with his hands in his pockets. Nickleby runs after the

can and picks it up again. Mr. Bishop continues down the

hill. Scout Master Ward watches him. He asks Mrs. Bishop,

Mrs. Bishop follows Mr. Bishop. Captain Sharp turns to the

rest of the group and says briskly:

Captain Sharp looks to Scout Master Ward as he points to

various scouts and divides the group into teams:

A binocular shot of the seaplane flying in a pattern. It

banks sharply. The binocular shot tilts down. Far below, in

the distance, Captain Sharp's station wagon rumbles along a

dirt road through the woods. The binocular shot pans wide. On

the side of the river, Scout Master Ward's motorboat stops.

Two scouts, tiny figures, pull the camouflage net off the

hidden canoe.

EXT. HIGH RIDGE. DAY

Suzy watches through her binoculars while Sam crouches beside

her. They are hidden behind a pile of rocks. Suzy says

Sam lifts his backpack onto his back and slings his air-rifle

over his arm. Suzy picks up her suitcases and puts the kitten

on her shoulder. They walk down a narrow path through a

thicket. They emerge into a small clearing.

Sam and Suzy stop in their tracks.

Deluca, Nickleby, Panagle, Izod, and Lazy-Eye stand in a row

along the edge of the woods ahead of them. Deluca brandishes

his hunting knife. Nickleby, Izod, and Lazy-Eye point their

bows and arrows. Panagle holds his walking stick weapon. The

wire-haired terrier strains growling at the end of his leash.

Deluca jerks him back. The kitten cowers. The sound of a

motorcycle guns, and Redford bursts through the trees, pops a

wheelie, and skids to a stop. He lifts his goggles.

The motor idles. Sam says finally:

Redford shrugs and answers with a callous smile:

Pause. Sam quickly takes off his shirt and throws it aside.

Sam takes a deep breath. He pleads:

Deluca spits on the ground. He says to Suzy:

Nickleby takes a step forward with his bow and arrow pointed

and ready. Suzy looks furious. Sam flips his air-rifle off

his shoulder with a twirl. He points it at Redford and

Nickleby. Nickleby hesitates. Sam says darkly:

Sam motions to a twig on the ground in front of him. Silence.

Redford revs the motor, pops the clutch, and races across the

clearing toward Sam and Suzy. The rest of the troop

converges, yelling crazily.

The wide canyon echoing with shouts, screams, and a small

explosion. One by one, Deluca, Nickleby, Panagle, Izod, and

Lazy-Eye come running out of the trees and down the hill.

Finally, Redford hobbles after them, limping and groaning and

clutching his side.

Redford's charred, partially demolished motorcycle smoldering

in the branches of a tree.

Suzy stands on the edge of the ravine staring at the pair of

bloody scissors in her hand. She looks shaken. Sam takes the

scissors, cleans them with his fingers, and hands them back

to Suzy. He says gently:

Suzy nods. She turns slowly away. Her eyes widen.

Suzy points. The wire-haired terrier lies on his back on the

ground with an arrow sticking out between his shoulder

blades. The kitten licks at the wound. Sam and Suzy run over

to the wounded dog. Sam crouches down, gently presses the

kitten away, and says bleakly:

Suzy has tears in her eyes. She slides her hands under the

wire-haired terrier's body. She begins to hyperventilate as

Sam puts his finger to the wire-haired terrier's neck. He

Suzy lifts the bleeding dog into her arms. Sam grabs her by

the shoulders. He locks eyes with her and says with grit and

Sam slaps Suzy in the face. She falls silent. He says slowly:

Suzy drops the wire-haired terrier which hits the ground with

a thud. She slaps Sam back with a huge, roundhouse smack. Sam

falls over sideways. Suzy stands over him.

Sam stands up and dusts himself off. He and Suzy stare down

at the lifeless animal. Suzy says quietly:

Sam reaches into a side-picket of his back-pack and takes out

an army-shovel. He assembles it. Suzy says hopefully:

Pause. Sam shrugs. He says distantly, even cosmically:

Suzy slowly wraps her arm around Sam's shoulder. They squeeze

each other tightly. Sam sighs. He begins to dig.

INT. STATION WAGON. DAY

Captain Sharp speeds bouncing down a winding dirt road. Lazy-

Eye, Deluca, and Gadge sit next to him crowded into the

passenger seat. Lazy-Eye yells into the hand-set of the

A voice responds over the speaker:

Captain Sharp grabs the hand-set out of Lazy-Eye's hand. He

shouts into it:

Redford is lying on his stomach on a towel in the rear of the

vehicle. Scout Master Ward kneels next to him pressing his

hand firmly into the middle of his back. There is significant

blood. Redford moans loudly. Scout Master Ward reassures him:

Scout Master Ward puts a pencil in Redford's teeth. Redford

grimaces, crunching it. In the back seat, the rest of the

troop excitedly re-cap:

Skotak points to the front seat. Deluca sits glumly in

silence. He has numerous small welts all over his arms. Gadge

EXT. POLICE STATION. DAY

Captain Sharp's station wagon skids to a stop next to his

office while the seaplane pulls up to the dock as Mr. and

Mrs. Bishop approach pedalling furiously on bicycles. Mr.

Bishop wears boating shoes. Captain Sharp and Scout Master

Ward jump out of the car. Skotak and Gadge help them remove

Redford on a stretcher from the back of the station wagon.

Mr. Bishop struggles with his kick-stand. He shouts:

Captain Sharp motions for the two old fishermen to get out of

the way. He and Scout Master Ward run with the stretcher onto

the dock. Mrs. Bishop is frantic:

Gadge points toward the hills. A man wearing a jumpsuit and

aviator sunglasses stands next to the seaplane. He is Jed. He

shouts as the stretcher approaches:

Captain Sharp motions for Skotak, Gadge, and Lazy-eye to help

Jed load the stretcher into the small cockpit. He tosses a

set of keys to Scout Master Ward and says:

Scout Master Ward takes the keys and starts untying the

police launch. Captain Sharp heads toward his office. Mr.

Bishop says firmly:

Mr. Bishop wheels on Scout Master Ward. He explodes:

Scout Master Ward recoils. He says quietly, troubled:

Mr. Bishop takes off his shoe and throws it at Scout Master

Ward. Scout Master Ward ducks, and the shoe bounces off his

back. Captain Sharp blocks Mr. Bishop.

Mr. Bishop scuffles with Captain Sharp. Mrs. Bishop jerks him

backwards and shouts:

Mr. Bishop faces Mrs. Bishop and Captain Sharp, breathing

heavily. Scout Master Ward looks depressed. Jed, Gadge,

Skotak, and Redford watch frozen from a gangplank alongside

the seaplane.

Scout Master Ward shows Mrs. Bishop the blood all over his

hands and uniform. Mrs. Bishop looks confused.

Captain Sharp gently draws Mrs. Bishop away by the shoulder.

He links arms with her as he tries to placate the group:

Mr. Bishop pushes Captain Sharp away from Mrs. Bishop into

Scout Master Ward. Scout Master Ward lunges at Mr. Bishop but

is intercepted by Captain Sharp and Mrs. Bishop. They shout

Dammit! Christ! Shit! Jesus!

At this moment, a voice interjects from the shore:

Captain Sharp, Scout Master Ward, and Mr. and Mrs. Bishop

stop fighting and turn around at once. They see: the

narrator. He stands at the foot of the dock holding a journal

with rubber bands wrapped around it. They all stare at him

blankly. He continues:

Long pause. Everyone looks utterly perplexed. The propeller

of the seaplane starts up, and they all shield their eyes

from the blast of wind and dust. The narrator hesitates. He

yells over the noise:

The narrator removes the rubber bands from his journal.

A carefully hand-drafted nautical chart. A cove is marked

with a red arrow and the caption Mile 3.25 Tidal Inlet.

The portable record player. Suzy's fingers place the needle

onto a spinning disc.

EXT. TIDAL LAGOON. DAY

A small cove enclosed by a low, rocky cliff. It forms an

almost complete circle and is overgrown with vines, flowers,

and branches. A thin channel leads out to the ocean. The sand

on the shore is white, and the water is perfectly clear and

crowded with shells at the bottom. Birds echo and fly from

tree to tree.

Sam's and Suzy's luggage is piled on the beach. The kitten

wanders, exploring. The lid of the portable record player is

open. The voice of Leonard Bernstein says over the speaker:

As they listen, Sam and Suzy take off their shoes and socks

and run in opposite directions around the edge of the cove.

They each climb up a rock over the water. They look at each

other across the lagoon. They both laugh. Suzy shouts,

Sam takes off his coon-skin cap and throws it aside. Suzy

removes her cardigan and drops it on the ground. Sam strips

off his uniform down to his white briefs. Suzy take off

everything except her underwear and a training bra. They

throw their clothes into the water. Sam yells:

Suzy immediately counts very quickly. They both scream as

they leap into the water. They swim toward each other,

laughing and shouting.

A clothesline hung with Sam's and Suzy's wet clothes swaying

like flags and snapping in the wind. The tent has been

pitched on a low, sandy plateau close to the water. Two lines

of shells mark a path to the entrance. A long stick is jammed

into the ground with a flickering safety-candle stuck into

the Y at the top. The kitten is asleep.

Sam sits on a folding stool in front of a portable easel. He

dips his brush into a tin cup and paints. Suzy poses

stretched out and propped up on one arm. She adjusts herself

slightly.

Sam continues to paint while Suzy thinks.

A binocular shot of a deep blue, star-filled sky.

Suzy lies on her back on a flat rock in the middle of the

cove looking up into the night. Sam wades out to her and

climbs up beside her.

Sam holds up two dead, shimmering, opalescent beetles with

fish-hooks threaded into their shells. Suzy looks enchanted.

Inside the tent, lit by a lantern. Sam clenches his teeth as

he forces one of the fish-hooks through Suzy's earlobe. Suzy

screams murderously. Sam releases her. The beetle dangles

neatly. A line of blood runs down the side of Suzy's neck.

Sam holds up a little mirror. Suzy nods.

Sam switches to Suzy's other earlobe. She resumes her

screaming.

Sam and Suzy standing on the beach listening to the French

singer's record. They face each other, bobbing their heads

and tilting awkwardly to the music. Suzy eventually begins to

dance. Sam does something vaguely like the Twist. They press

against each other and kiss. Suzy says quietly:

Sam and Suzy kiss again. Sam pushes his hands through Suzy's

hair and draws it back behind her ears. Suzy whispers:

Sam slides his hand up under the training bra and presses it

onto Suzy's breast.

Sam nods. He looks to be in a trance.

Sam and Suzy sitting on a tree branch over the water eating

raisins from Sam's hand. Suzy has flowers in her hair. She

looks down into the water with her binoculars.

Suzy thinks for minute. She says finally:

Suzy gives Sam the binoculars. He points them at her and

stares.

Suzy nods. She holds Sam's hand. She points to the scorpion

brooch pinned to Sam's shirt.

Sam looks at the brooch. He shakes his head.

Suzy nods thoughtfully. Pause.

Sam frowns. Tears suddenly well-up in his eyes. He shakes his

head.

Long pause. Suzy says genuinely:

A campfire burns in front of the tent. Sam lies on his back

on one of the bedrolls smoking his pipe while Suzy sits

Indian-style next to him. She reads aloud from a book called

The Light of Seven Matchsticks. There is an illustration on

the cover of a child's hand extinguishing a little flame. A

ribbon of smoke curls between its fingers.

Suzy looks to Sam to see if he is still awake. Sam nods and

signals for Suzy to continue. Suzy turns the page and reads

The next morning. Sam and Suzy are asleep with their arms

wrapped around each other inside the tent. They wear only

their underwear. The sound of an airplane approaches. Sam's

eyes open. The noise buzzes by loudly overhead. Suzy sits up.

Sam scrambles to his feet, unzips the flaps of the tent, and

looks out. Suzy crouches beside him, holding onto his leg.

Captain Sharp standing on the beach fifteen feet away. Scout

Master Ward waits behind him with Gadge, Skotak, and Lazy-

Eye. Mr. and Mrs. Bishop stride up out of the water. Mr.

Bishop looks incensed. They are wet to the waist. The police

launch is moored in the lagoon. Two larger boats with St.

Jack Wood Fire Brigade printed on their hulls float further

away. Men in red caps stand on their decks.

Suzy pulls Sam back inside. She zips up the tent again. She

kisses Sam. Mr. Bishop hollers:

Mr. Bishop grabs hold of the entire tent by the top and rips

it up out of the ground, uprooting the stakes which go

flying. This reveals:

Sam and Suzy, half-naked, entwined, kissing.

Mr. and Mrs. Bishop both freeze. Sam and Suzy look up to

them. Mr. Bishop growls and roars at them ferociously like a

monster. Sam and Suzy look horrified. Mr. Bishop's face

suddenly drains of all emotion. Pause. Mrs. Bishop commands

Sam and Suzy:

Sam and Suzy remain perfectly still. Mrs. Bishop grabs Suzy

by the arm and jerks her to her feet. Sam and Suzy hang onto

each other. Mrs. Bishop slaps Suzy with a whack. Sam lets go,

and Suzy is gone.

Scout Master Ward comes over to Sam sadly and hands him his

uniform. Sam takes it. Scout Master Ward turns to the other

scouts, claps his hands twice, and says:

Sam starts putting on his socks. Captain Sharp watches him.

EXT. POLICE LAUNCH. DAY

Captain Sharp drives his boat along the coast with a grim

look on his face. Suzy rides in the back with Mr. and Mrs.

Bishop. Sam rides in the front with the other scouts. An

interrogation is in progress:

Scout Master Ward sits next to Captain Sharp. He shows him

the air-mail envelope.

Captain Sharp shrugs. He says, resigned:

Scout Master Ward turns to Sam. He holds out the envelope.

Sam takes it. He opens it. He reads. Suzy watches him from

across the boat. She calls out anxiously:

Suzy stands up. She says as she starts across the boat:

Sam holds out the note. Mr. Bishop pulls Suzy back down to

her seat. He stands up, himself, and walks over to Sam. He

takes him by the wrist and leads him to a small cabin. He

opens the door and presses him forward. Sam stumbles down the

steps and looks back. Mr. Bishop shuts the door. Captain

Sharp glares at him. Suzy says icily:

Mr. Bishop returns to the back of the boat and sits down

again. He gives Suzy a direct order:

Suzy looks from Captain Sharp to Mrs. Bishop and back to Mr.

Bishop. Mr. Bishop falls silent.

Lionel shakes his head bitterly. Suzy stares out to sea.

Scout Master Ward walks over to the cabin, opens the door,

and goes inside.

INT. POLICE LAUNCH. DAY

A small room with two bunks, two portholes, and a pile of

ropes. Sam sits hunched over with his hands in his lap. He

stares at the envelope. Scout Master Ward sits down across

from him. He motions to the envelope and says quietly,

pausing between each sentence:

Sam does not respond. Scout Master Ward asks in a wounded

Sam shakes his head.

INT. POST OFFICE. DAY

Becky sits at the switchboard with her head-phones on.

Captain Sharp and Scout Master Ward sit behind her wearing

their own sets of head-phones. There is a click on the other

end of the line.

Split-screen. On one side of the frame, we see Captain Sharp,

Scout Master Ward, and Becky. On the other side, we see a

fifty-year-old woman in a blue and white uniform pants-suit

with a Salvation Army officer-style hat and a red ribbon tied

in a bow around her neck. She is Social Services. She sits at

a desk in a cinder block office. Guards and orderlies criss-

cross in a bullet-proof window to a long, grey corridor

behind her.

Social Services flips open a file-folder and picks up a ball-

point pen. (She takes notes throughout the conversation.) She

says into her telephone:

Social Services starts to hang up the telephone. Captain

Sharp says abruptly:

Pause. Social Services puts down her pen. She clasps her

hands together in front of her. She says finally:

Captain Sharp exchanges a look with Scout Master Ward. Scout

Master Ward interjects:

Social Services frowns. She asks calmly:

Social Services refers to a document in her file-folder. She

nods.

Social Services picks up the document. She points to it.

Social Service hangs up the telephone. Becky pulls the cords

out of their sockets. Scout Master Ward looks to Captain

Sharp. Silence.

Becky opens a tin of home-made lemon bars. Captain Sharp

declines one. Scout Master Ward tries one. He looks

completely enchanted.

INT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. NIGHT

The living room. There is a wicker rocking chair, a vase

filled with wilted wildflowers, and a portrait of some

Pilgrims hanging over a stone fireplace. Lionel, Murray, and

Rudy sit together on the floor playing Parchesi.

Mr. Bishop lurches into the doorway, shirtless. He carries an

open bottle of red wine with a glass in one hand and a long-

handled woodsman's axe in the other.

Lionel, Murray, and Lionel look up from their game. Mr.

Bishop hesitates. He seems slightly disoriented.

Mr. Bishop exits. Pause. Lionel rolls a pair of dice.

INT. SUZY'S BATHROOM. NIGHT

Old linoleum floor. Dark curtainless window. One bare light

bulb. Suzy sits erect in the bathtub staring blankly into

space. Mrs. Bishop washes her with a soapy sponge. Suzy's

clothes and leather folder are in the corner with the kitten

scratching at them.

Suzy turns to Mrs. Bishop and interrupts:

Mrs. Bishop looks stunned. She says quietly:

Mrs. Bishop sees something sticking out of the leather

folder. She pulls it out and stares at it. It is the "Coping

with the Very Troubled Child" pamphlet. She looks to Suzy.

Suzy looks away. Mrs. Bishop sighs deeply and says, on the

verge of tears:

Suzy starts to cry. She covers her face. Her voice breaks as

Mrs. Bishop puts her arms around Suzy. Suzy shakes, silently

sobbing. Mrs. Bishop pulls some twigs and stems out of Suzy's

hair. She studies the beetle earrings. She says wearily:

INT. AIRSTREAM TRAILER. NIGHT

Captain Sharp cooks sausages on a skillet in a kitchenette.

He has a bottle of beer in his hand. Sam sits waiting at a

fold-out table with a glass of milk in front of him. He says

without looking up:

Captain Sharp stirs the sausages in the pan. He nods. He says

Captain Sharp brings the skillet to the table and serves

three links onto one plate and three onto another. He sits

down.

Captain Sharp pours an inch of beer into a glass and slides

it over to Sam.

Sam nods. He and Captain Sharp both drink sips. Captain Sharp

asks gently and sincerely:

Sam considers this. Captain Sharp looks depressed. They start

eating their sausages. Captain Sharp says quietly:

Silence. Captain Sharp refills both their beer glasses.

INT. SCOUT MASTER WARD'S TENT. NIGHT

Scout Master Ward sits on his cot in his pajamas again with a

cigarette in his mouth. His tape recorder is recording. He

says into the microphone:

Scout Master Ward hesitates. He thinks for a minute. He takes

a deep breath. He closes his eyes. He opens them again. He

looks desperate. He looks up at the ceiling. He shakes his

head. He presses stop. He kneels on the floor with his palms

together and smokes.

There is a slight commotion outside. Scout Master Ward

INT. TREE HOUSE. NIGHT

The fort sixty feet above the camp. It is still under

construction. The entire troop (with the exceptions of

Redford and Sam) has gathered for a clandestine meeting. They

all wear pajamas. Skotak stands on a balcony with his back to

the group and his hands on a wooden railing.

Skotak slams his fist on the railing. Everyone looks

startled. Skotak turns around to face the group. He says

The railing collapses behind Skotak, ripping part of a wall

and a row of shingles off the structure as it falls away.

There is a moment of silence before it hits the ground with a

splintering thud. Skotak hesitates. He moves a half-step away

from the edge. He continues:

Skotak moves among the group, looking from face to face, as

Skotak circles around the edge of the tree house. He says

Skotak stands still. He says mysteriously:

Silence. The other scouts begin to murmur to each other,

shaking their heads, shrugging, whispering, and gesturing.

Finally, Deluca looks up to Skotak.

EXT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. NIGHT

A thick tree has been chopped almost completely through its

trunk. For some reason, it remains standing. Mr. Bishop sits

on the ground leaning against it. He breathes heavily. The

axe rests across his lap.

A twig snaps. Mr. Bishop looks up, listening. Pause. He

drinks a sip of wine.

In the background, on the other side of the lawn, five small

silhouettes run silently in a row away from the house into

the trees on the left. A moment later, one taller silhouette

rides a bicycle silently away from the house into the trees

on the right.

EXT. DIRT ROAD. NIGHT

Captain Sharp sits on the hood of his station wagon. Mrs.

Bishop leans against it with her bicycle in front of her.

They smoke cigarettes. Captain Sharp says sadly:

Pause. Captain Sharp suddenly slides his hand inside Mrs.

Bishop's shirt onto her breast and simultaneously kisses her

-- then just as suddenly gets into his car and starts the

engine. Mrs. Bishop hesitates. She reaches inside the window

and puts her hand on the top of Captain Sharp's head. She

says, worried:

Silence. The motor idles. Captain Sharp says distantly:

Captain Sharp puts the car into gear and drives off. Mrs.

Bishop finishes her cigarette. She gets on her bicycle and

rides away.

INT. AIRSTREAM TRAILER. NIGHT

A burning match drops down into the fireplace near the foot

of a bunk where Sam lies sleeping. He has the sheet pulled up

to his chin, but his toes stick out. He opens one eye. Dust

descends and settles. Something scrapes and scratches. The

flame burns out.

Sam slides slowly off the mattress and creeps across the

floor. He crouches in front of the fireplace. He flicks on a

scout flashlight and sees:

The end of a hanging rope.

Sam leans quickly into the fireplace and looks straight up,

shining his flashlight. Skotak is looking down at him from

the top of the chimney. He puts his finger to his lips. Sam

Skotak gestures for Sam to wait. He disappears from view. A

moment later, Suzy's face appears at the top of the chimney,

smiling toothily. Sam looks ecstatic.

The next room. Captain Sharp sleeps in boxer shorts on the

floor of the kitchenette in the dark. He snores quietly.

EXT. ROUGH CHANNEL. NIGHT

Five mini-canoes race across a wide, choppy strait close to

the open sea. Skotak, Deluca, Nickleby, Gadge, Lazy-Eye,

Panagle, Roosevelt, Chef, and Izod paddle aggressively. We

hear in voice-over:

Sam and Suzy ride in the back of the canoe that Skotak rows.

Sam has his arms around Suzy's waist. The kitten is on her

shoulder. Sam sees the portable record player among Suzy's

things.

A pebble beach below high dunes. Large waves sweep into the

shore. Spray blows through the air. There is a black

lighthouse on a rocky point in the distance. The narrator

stands at the water's edge holding a meteorologist's

measuring stick. He braces himself against the gusting winds.

He speaks to the camera:

The narrator takes out a pocket barometer. He reads it. He

The narrator walks quickly out of the shot. The five canoes

land on the beach with the tide. Sam, Suzy, Skotak, and the

rest of the troop quickly jump out and drag the boats up the

shore.

INT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. NIGHT

The room is black. Mr. and Mrs. Bishop lie in separate single

beds side-by-side. They both stare at the ceiling. The

windows rattle, the walls creak, and trees sway outside.

Long pause. Mrs. Bishop whispers:

Silence. Mrs. Bishop's voice breaks as she says quietly:

Mrs. Bishop shakes her head and smiles with tears on her

face. A powerful blast of wind shakes the room. A night-light

blinks. Mr. Bishop has a lump in his throat as he says:

Mr. and Mrs. Bishop look across at each other in the dark.

Mrs. Bishop says desperately:

Mr. Bishop takes a deep breath. He says finally, with a

INT. STONE CAVE. NIGHT

Flashlight and lantern flames flicker over the jagged walls.

Skotak is curled in a blanket on a high rock. Gadge is tucked

into a sleeping bag under a ledge. The troop nestle on rocks

and ledges in bedrolls and sleeping bags all around the deep

cavern.

Sam lies on his back on one of the bedrolls smoking his pipe

while Suzy sits Indian-style next to him. She reads aloud

from a book called Annabelle's Midnight. There is an

illustration on the cover of a blonde girl climbing out a

window onto a trellis with fireflies circling around her.

Suzy looks to Sam to see if he is still awake. Sam looks to

the rest of the troop to see if they are still awake. They

all nod and signal for Suzy to continue. Suzy turns the page

and reads on:

EXT. SCOUT CAMP. DAY

The next morning. Camp Ivanhoe. Scout Master Ward emerges

from his tent. He puts on his hat. The wind whips it off his

head. He chases it, catches it, and puts it back on with the

chin-strap tight. He frowns. He shouts:

Scout Master Ward tries to light a cigarette, but the match

blows out. He walks past the latrine, the workbench, the row

of smaller tents, and the charcoal grill. He throws his hands

into the air.

Scout Master Ward shakes his head. He arrives at the picnic

table and rings his bell. He sits down. He opens a new issue

of Indian Corn. There is a picture on the cover of a scout

troop rappelling in Tasmania. He struggles to keep the

rippling pages from turning by themselves.

The first page. There is another drawing of the Scout Master-

in-Chief. This time he is behind the wheel of a ship. His

signature below, once again, reads Commander Pierce. There is

a quotation in large text: "Anyone can hold the helm when the

sea is calm."

Pause. Scout Master Ward lowers his magazine. He looks

around, confused. Something dawns on him.

INT. COMMAND TENT. DAY

A small entourage of teenage scouts studies maps, charts, and

documents at folding tables. One of them sits at a telegraph

machine. He wears headphones and taps Morse code on a paddle

as he listens to a transmission. He looks puzzled. He swivels

his chair to a steno-machine and begins typing rapidly.

EXT. COMMAND TENT. DAY

A triple-sized tent with a canopy in front and a large totem

pole looming over it. It stands on five-foot stilts. There is

a school bus parked next to it with letters painted across

its side which read Regional Jubilee.

A forty-five-year-old scout master with several medals on his

chest is sharpening a straight razor. He is Secretary

McIntire. He adjusts a hot towel on the face of a man in a

barber's chair.

The young telegraph operator hurries out of the tent carrying

a strip of paper. He hands it to Secretary McIntire.

Secretary McIntire stares at it. He says to the man under the

The seated man whips the towel off his face and rises to his

feet. He is Commander Pierce himself. He has silver hair, a

moustache, and a much greater number of medals. He says in

disbelief as he snatches the slip of paper:

Commander Pierce shakes his head. He continues to study the

document as he sits back down. Secretary McIntire begins to

lather his cheeks with a brush.

A vast archway of wood, straw, and rope construction. Fort

Lebanon is spelled out across the top with bound sticks. A

large flag waving madly on a pole reads Khaki Scouts of North

America. A bugler on a platform plays the familiar staccato

tattoo. It echoes for miles.

Sam and Suzy wait inside the gates crouched behind a row of

trash cans with the rest of the troop except Skotak. They

shiver. Sam has on his back-pack. Suzy carries her suitcase.

Gadge holds a tennis ball can.

A scout master in an Indian chief's headdress stops as he

walks by. He looks curiously at Sam and especially Suzy. He

says to Nickleby:

Pause. Nickleby points to a fat man in an apron cooking

hamburgers on a grill.

The scout master shrugs. Skotak comes over and says

Skotak distributes a handful of gum-balls among Sam, Suzy,

and the rest of the troop. They all put them in their mouths.

Skotak motions for everyone to follow him.

A footbridge across a stream leads to a Quonset hut with an

awning in front labelled Supply Tent. A crowd of very young

scouts waits at a wide counter bartering over boxes of food,

drink, and equipment. A team of helpers collects money and

packages goods. At the center, there is a twenty-year-old

scout with a pencil behind his ear. He is Cousin Ben. He says

to a nine-year-old Junior Khaki:

Skotak appears and whispers something to Cousin Ben. Cousin

Ben nods. He says to his customers:

Cousin Ben pulls a curtain shut behind the counter.

EXT. WOODEN PROMENADE. DAY

Sam, Suzy, Skotak and the rest of the troop follow Cousin Ben

briskly out a door and onto a cat-walk that runs along the

top of a wall made from tall, pointed logs. As they talk,

they walk past dozens of rows and clusters of tents grouped

by color in the fields below. They walk past towers, huts,

ladders, latrines, and a catapult under construction. They

walk past a white infirmary with a red cross on it and a

doctor taking a boy's blood pressure. They walk past a fleet

of small, antique sailboats flying assorted troop banners.

Five hundred scouts and fifty scout masters work, eat, talk,

cook, and play sports and games all around the compound in

spite of the fierce winds. One group rides motorcycles,

another fires model rockets, another flies by overhead on a

cable-trolley.

Cousin Ben points to Sam and asks Skotak over the sound of

Skotak motions for Gadge to hand Cousin Ben the tennis ball

can. It appears to be very heavy and jingles as it moves.

Cousin Ben takes it. He says to Sam:

Sam points to one of the patches on his sash. It has an

anchor embroidered on it.

Cousin Ben hesitates. He points behind them with his thumb:

Cousin Ben stops walking. He looks Sam up and down. Suzy says

Cousin Ben turns to Suzy. He looks back to Sam and back to

Suzy again.

Suzy nods. Cousin Ben looks intrigued. He says tentatively:

Sam and Suzy shake their heads. Cousin Ben nods. He speaks

more gently now:

Sam and Suzy immediately nod. Cousin Ben continues:

Sam and Suzy immediately nod. Cousin Ben looks perturbed.

Cousin Ben puts out his hand. Suzy spits her gum into his

palm. He throws it away over his shoulder. Sam and the rest

of the troop spit their gum out on the ground. Cousin Ben

Cousin Ben watches as Sam and Suzy walk away and stand next

to a large trampoline. A small scout jumps from a high

ladder, bounces, and does a back-flip.

Sam and Suzy uncertain how to begin the conversation. Sam

shrugs.

Sam looks stunned. He is speechless. He stammers:

Sam shakes his head. He looks off into the distance. He says

Cousin Ben counting nickels in the tennis ball can. He jerks

his thumb toward Sam and Suzy and says dismissively:

Cousin Ben looks. Suzy has her hands around Sam's throat and

is throttling him. Sam squirms loose and calms her down. The

troop watches transfixed. Sam takes a snapshot out of his

pocket and shows it to Suzy, explaining. Suzy nods. They come

back over to the group. There are tears on Suzy's cheeks. She

says to Cousin Ben:

INT. CHAPEL TENT. DAY

Cousin Ben stands at a collapsible altar. He wears a purple,

silk stole around his neck with crosses stitched into it. Sam

and Suzy hold a Bible with their hands on it. Skotak and the

rest of troop listen solemnly as Cousin Ben reads from a

Skotak raises his hand. Cousin Ben reluctantly calls on him:

Skotak and the rest of the troop look very concerned. They

murmur to each other:

Skotak and the rest of the troop look to Cousin Ben. Cousin

Ben glares at them. He sighs. He points to Skotak.

Cousin Ben points to the tennis ball can on the floor next to

his feet. Skotak takes it and zips it into a side-pocket of

Sam's back-pack. Cousin Ben hands Sam and Suzy a receipt on a

clipboard.

Sam and Suzy sign and initial. Cousin Ben tears out a copy.

Sam and Suzy turn and walk out of the chapel tent holding

hands. They do not smile. Cousin Ben, Skotak, and the rest of

the troop follow them with grave expressions on their faces.

Sam touches Suzy's hair. Suzy kisses Sam's hand. They walk as

a group through the camp.

EXT. CAMP MARINA. DAY

Sam, Suzy, Skotak, and the rest of the troop wait at the end

of a narrow dock. Cousin Ben stands below them in a small

sailboat. He reaches up to Suzy and lifts her onboard. He

reaches up to Sam and lifts him onboard, too. He rigs the

sail.

Sam smiles sadly. He and Skotak do the secret handshake. The

others quickly join in. Suzy blows them a kiss. Everyone

looks choked up.

Cousin Ben unloops a line. The sails quickly catch the strong

wind, and the boat sails away into the harbor. Skotak and the

rest of troop wave and salute. They watch, bittersweet.

Pause.

Skotak sighs. He turns and starts up the dock. The others

follow him. Roosevelt hesitates. He points.

Skotak and the rest of the troop stop and turn around. The

sailboat glides back in. Sam leaps onto the dock with the

tennis ball can. Suzy looks worried. Cousin Ben yells:

Sam sprints up the dock. He yells back over his shoulder:

A binocular shot of Sam running full-speed through the

compound. He approaches quickly -- then skids to a stop.

EXT. CHAPEL TENT. DAY

Redford blocks the entrance. He is dressed in white hospital

pajamas with a red cross on the breast pocket. His side is

heavily bandaged and his arm is attached to an I/V drip. He

lowers Suzy's binoculars.

Sam stands frozen in front of Redford. Redford stares at him

icily. Sam starts to say something -- then pauses. He says,

Sam nods. He asks quietly:

Redford frowns. He says in disbelief:

Sam runs up to Redford and pokes him as hard as he can in the

scissor cut with his finger. Redford screams.

Scouts and scout masters everywhere stop what they are doing

and look to the chapel tent. Across the compound, Commander

Pierce comes out of his tent, alerted.

Sam whips the binoculars out of Redford's hands, turns away,

and sprints. No one moves anywhere except Sam dashing toward

the marina. Redford shouts at the top of his lungs:

An emergency alarm sounds. The entire camp swings into

action. Two teams of scouts playing capture-the-flag descend

from both sides and cut Sam off from the dock. They wear red

and yellow jerseys over their uniforms.

Suzy jumps out of the boat onto the dock. Sam sees her beyond

the blockade of scouts. She waves her arms. Sam throws up his

hands. He sprints in a new direction, onto a wide field.

There is a small, pink flag on a thin stick stuck in the

ground at the center of a plastic ring. Sam grabs it as he

runs past. He looks back and sees:

A mob of fifty scouts chasing him. He circles in a giant

figure eight trailed by the huge group. He races up a hill

and stops at the top.

Sam looks down at the approaching scouts and hundreds of

others watching. A dark cloud rolls in casting a giant shadow

over the entire camp. Sam throws the little flag down at his

pursuers like a javelin. It sails in an arc and pokes down

into the grass. There is a thunderclap. Sam looks up into the

sky.

A bolt of lightning strikes him.

Sam is thrown ten feet through the air and lands on his back.

The tennis ball can explodes nickels. The mob of scouts stops

with a jolt. They look terrified. Sam sits up. He is covered

in black soot. His shoes are on fire. He shakes them off his

feet.

Suzy runs through the crowd of scouts and drops down on her

knees in front of Sam. She looks astonished. Sam says

Suzy helps Sam to his feet. Sam raises Suzy's smoldering

binoculars to his eyes. Skotak and the rest of the troop join

them.

A binocular shot of a ladder leaning against a high fence.

Sam leads Suzy, Skotak, and the rest of the troop fly at a

sprint to the fence, climb the ladder, and pull it up after

them. A bugle plays a cavalry charge. The mob bolts after

them.

Split-screen. On one side of the frame, we see Captain Sharp,

Scout Master Ward, and Becky wearing their operator head-

phones. On the other side, we see Commander Pierce, Secretary

McIntire, and the commander's entourage inside the command

tent. Commander Pierce says into his field-telephone:

Captain Sharp spins around in his chair and flips a switch on

a two-way radio. He says into a microphone:

Captain Sharp sets down the microphone. He turns to Becky.

Becky nods. Captain Sharp turns to Scout Master Ward.

Scout Master Ward is already on his feet. He peels off his

head-phones.

Becky plugs a cord into a socket and says:

Captain Sharp looks out the window with a sense of dread.

INT. BISHOP HOUSE. DAY

Mr. Bishop listens on the telephone with a strained look on

his face. Mrs. Bishop watches him intently.

Mr. Bishop grabs Mrs. Bishop by the wrist. He says grimly:

Mrs. Bishop raises her megaphone to her mouth. She shouts:

INT. SEAPLANE. DAY

A deHavilland Beaver in heavy rain and turbulence. Jed speaks

into his radio while piloting the aircraft. Social Services

sits beside him in the passenger's seat. She looks queasy but

determined.

Jed presses the yoke forward, and the plane dips hard. Social

Services braces against the dash.

EXT. MOTORBOAT. DAY

Scout Master Ward steers his outboard through the open

channel. The boat crests high over deep swells, flooding over

in waves. Scout Master Ward is drenched. He does not flinch

or even appear to notice.

EXT. FOREST PATH. DAY

Sam, Suzy, Skotak, and the rest of the troop scramble through

the woods as fast as they can. There are flashes of lightning

and pounding thunder. Suzy trips on a root, and Sam pulls her

to her feet. Sam trips on a rock, and Suzy pulls him to his

feet.

INT. COMMAND TENT. DAY

The commander's entourage is frantically packing up their

portable telephones, P.A. system, folding tables, collapsible

chairs, etc. One of them wraps a tarp around boxes labelled

Fireworks.

A transistor radio. The announcer says urgently:

Commander Pierce and Secretary McIntire listen to the report.

Secretary McIntire says gravely:

Captain Pierce nods, worried. The capture-the-flag scouts in

soaking jerseys gather, winded, outside the tent. One of the

team captains stands in the entrance breathing heavily.

Commander Pierce points to him:

Secretary McIntire hands Commander Pierce an envelope with

red-and-white stripes on it. Commander Pierce rips it open.

The St. Jack's Church poster box. Another mimeographed page

is stapled to the bulletin board. The heading is now Summer

Pageant, 1965. It reads:

INT. EPISCOPAL CHURCH. DAY

The set for the ark stands on the platform behind the altar.

There are candles and garlands in place, but also stacks of

cardboard boxes and gallons of distilled-water. Numerous

animal costumes hang from a rolling garment rack. An old nun

crosses the aisle carrying a large, metal coffee dispenser.

Two young priests cross in the opposite direction carrying

folding cots. Voices shout urgently off-screen:

Sam, Suzy, Skotak, and the rest of the troop slowly poke

their heads in from the side door and creep up the stairs to

the choir loft.

EXT. SCOUT FESTIVAL. DAY

The entire brigade of scouts stands assembled in formation in

the rain. The last two stragglers come running and hurry into

their positions. They all wear rain slickers or canvas

ponchos. Commander Pierce, Secretary McIntire, and the

commander's entourage emerge quickly from the command tent.

Commander Pierce shouts:

Commander Pierce hesitates. He points down to the marina and

says to Secretary McIntire:

Secretary McIntire and the commander's entourage turn to see:

Scout Master Ward speeding toward the dock in his motorboat.

He leaps to shore, throws a line over a post, and sprints up

to the assembly. He salutes Commander Pierce. Commander

Pierce frowns and asks with quiet ferocity:

Commander Pierce looks at Scout Master Ward's breast pocket.

A name-tag that reads Scout Master Ward next to a patch with

a picture of a snow-capped mountain. It says K.S.N.A.

Leadership underneath.

Commander Pierce says bitterly:

Commander Pierce rips the patch off Scout Master Ward's

uniform and throws it aside. He holds out his hand, palm up.

Scout Master Ward looks stricken. He reaches into his pocket,

takes out his scout pocket-knife, and hands it Commander

Pierce. Commander Pierce puts it into his own pocket. He

Secretary McIntire leans close to Commander Pierce. He

Commander Pierce hesitates. He holds up a finger.

Commander Pierce strides back into the command tent.

Secretary McIntire looks to Scout Master Ward, uneasy. Scout

Master Ward stares down at the ground.

The flash-flood explodes out from the woods.

Gushing water pours down the hillside, cuts a swath through

the center of the camp, and tears down everything in its

narrow path. The command tent suddenly becomes a tiny island

at the center of a rushing river.

The company is taken aback. Scout Master Ward stiffens,

watchful. The totem pole creaks and sways, then falls cleanly

onto the command tent, splitting it down the middle. Inside,

something sparks, pops, then blows up. The tent bursts into

flames.

Secretary McIntire does not react. He stands perfectly still,

watching the fire. Scout Master Ward taps him, grabs him, and

shakes him. Secretary McIntire looks at him blankly. Scout

Master Ward makes a snap decision. He turns to the company

Scout Master Ward runs ahead, splashes into the raging flood,

wades through it against the current, dodging branches and

debris, then pulls himself up onto the fallen totem pole and

walks balancing on it to the burning tent. He disappears

inside.

Secretary McIntire and the vast company watch, riveted.

Scout Master Ward comes out the opposite side of the tent

onto the other end of the fallen totem pole carrying

Commander Pierce over his shoulders. He descends back into

the water, trudges through it, and steps up onto the

embankment. The company looks deeply, permanently impressed.

Scout Master Ward hollers:

Secretary McIntire hesitates. He stirs to attention and says

Cousin Ben gives an A-OK sign near the front of the assembly.

The entire company follows Scout Master Ward with Commander

Pierce over his shoulders at a fast jog out of the camp.

INT. EPISCOPAL CHURCH. DAY

The room has now been converted into a full-fledged refugee

center. Families from the town-ship huddle in pews with bags

and piles of their wet belongings. Priests and nuns

distribute towels and sandwiches to frightened children. Dogs

and cats prowl nervously. Sandbags are stacked in low walls

outside the doors and windows. The rain beats on the roof,

and lightning continues to flash through the stained glass.

A side door opens. Captain Sharp comes in from the storm with

Mr. and Mrs. Bishop. Lionel, Murray, Rudy, and the two old

fishermen follow closely behind them. They slam the door.

Captain Sharp looks around frantically.

Another side door opens. Scout Master Ward jogs in with

Commander Pierce still over his shoulders and the entire

company behind him flooding into the room. Captain Sharp

yells to him:

Scout Master Ward goes over to Captain Sharp and turns his

back to him, jogging in place.

Captain Sharp helps Commander Pierce down off Scout Master

Ward's back and into a pew to rest. Secretary McIntire

assists them. Mr. Bishop strides up the aisle yelling to the

left and right:

Mr. and Mrs. Bishop grimace, unbelievably frustrated. Scout

Master Ward addresses the scouts:

Hands raise. Scout Master Ward passes out walkie-talkies as

he chooses his squad:

Becky steps in front of Scout Master Ward with her hand

raised. Scout Master Ward hesitates.

Becky takes a walkie-talkie. She looks at Scout Master Ward

with admiration and asks, concerned:

Scout Master Ward leads Becky by the arm through the crowded

church as they begin to gather supplies: extra flashlights, a

flare gun, coils of rope.

Captain Sharp looks up to the choir loft. Eleven children

dressed in animal masks sit quietly in a row. Captain Sharp

does a double-take. One of the animals is an otter wearing

Sunday-school shoes and binoculars around its neck. Next to

her is the male of the species in a sash with numerous small,

embroidered patches on it.

The front doors open. There is lightning, thunder, wind, and

rain. Social Services enters. She takes off a wet cape with a

red lining and hands it to an acolyte in a robe. Jed presses

the doors shut behind them. Social Services asks immediately:

Captain Sharp hesitates. He says reluctantly:

The acolyte runs to the coffee dispenser with a cardboard

cup. Social Services charges over to Captain Sharp.

Captain Sharp frowns. He looks to Scout Master Ward and says

Captain Sharp tries to process this. Social Services now

moves in on Scout Master Ward. She says aggressively:

Captain Sharp and Scout Master Ward stand side-by-side in

front of Social Services. She berates them:

Captain Sharp and Scout Master Ward look sheepish. Social

Services says bitterly:

Captain Sharp hesitates. He says strangely:

Silence. In the background, the acolyte picks up Panagle's

walking stick weapon off the floor. He stares at it, puzzled.

Social Services says carefully:

Social Services, Captain Sharp, and Scout Master Ward turn to

Mr. and Mrs. Bishop. Mr. Bishop looks tense.

Commander Pierce appears with an oxygen mask over his face.

He pulls it aside briefly and says to Secretary McIntire:

Secretary McIntire snaps his fingers and gives a signal.

Redford appears.

Secretary McIntire hands Commander Pierce a doctor's report.

Mrs. Bishop snatches it and throws it over her shoulder.

Social Services turns and starts up the aisle. She stops

suddenly. Captain Sharp is standing in their path brandishing

Panagle's walking stick weapon.

Everyone stops. Captain Sharp locks eyes with Social

Services. He says in a steely voice:

Social Services looks furious. Her jaw sets. She reaches

inside her jacket and withdraws a small pad labelled Citation

Book.

Captain Sharp looks enraged. He grits his teeth. He reaches

into his back pocket and withdraws a similar pad labelled

Boating Violations.

Everyone looks. Redford is standing on a pew with his arm

stretched out pointing up at the choir loft in amazement. The

troop is there, but Sam's and Suzy's seats are empty.

There is a flash, a bang, and all the lights in the room go

out at once. People gasp. Candles flicker alight on

candlesticks. A back-up generator kicks into gear, humming,

and the room fills with a new, different light.

Captain Sharp says to himself:

Captain Sharp strides down the aisle. He shouts up to Skotak:

Skotak hesitates. He and the rest of the troop all look up to

a small, rickety, attic door. It is slightly ajar above a

long, narrow ladder behind the pipes of the organ.

Captain Sharp bolts up the steps. Everyone follows him,

running.

EXT. CHURCH ROOF. NIGHT

The storm rages. Captain Sharp opens a trap door onto the

high eaves. Faces appear in numerous windows below, looking

up. Mr. and Mrs. Bishop poke their heads out behind Captain

Sharp. On the far end of the rooftop, Sam and Suzy huddle

together at the base of the high steeple.

Captain Sharp stares up at Sam and Suzy, dumbstruck.

Sam and Suzy quickly start climbing a rusty gutter up the

side of the steeple. Captain Sharp looks astonished. He

Sam and Suzy continue to climb. Captain Sharp shouts back to

Mr. and Mrs. Bishop over the roaring wind:

Scout Master Ward appears and thrusts out the coil of rope.

He yells to Captain Sharp:

Captain Sharp throws the rope over his shoulder and advances.

Mr. and Mrs. Bishop both crawl out after him, but Scout

Master Ward pulls them back. Mr. Bishop looks to Mrs. Bishop.

They are both terrified and helpless. They hold on to each

other tightly.

Captain Sharp tight-rope-walking along the edge of the

slippery roof with his arms stretched out sideways,

balancing. He army-crawls up steep slate shingles and reaches

the bottom of the steeple. He looks up. Sam and Suzy have

arrived at the top. They inch away sideways around a ledge

and disappear to the other side. Captain Sharp's voice

Captain Sharp rubs his eyes. He knots one end of the rope

around his waist and ties the other to a pipe at the foot of

the gutter. He pulls the rope tight, presses his foot on the

wall, and gets ready to start climbing -- then stops

suddenly. He hesitates. He pulls the walkie-talkie off his

belt and yells into it:

Sam and Suzy at the top of the steeple standing with their

backs against a painted cross. They look out.

The entire church has become an island. The cemetery is under

water, and the circling streets are fast rivers. Suzy turns

to Sam. They both appear relatively calm.

Sam and Suzy link arms.

Captain Sharp climbing the steeple as Social Services yells

at him over the speaker of his walkie-talkie:

Mr. and Mrs. Bishop watching from the trap door with Scout

Master Ward. Mr. Bishop's eyes widen. He turns quickly to

Mrs. Bishop. She nods, energized. Mr. Bishop grabs Scout

Master Ward's walkie-talkie and shouts forcefully:

Social Services' face, inscrutable, as she listens.

Sam and Suzy preparing to jump. They each take a deep breath.

Suzy looks deeply moved. She kisses Sam. A little electric

zap crackles at their lips. Suzy's eyes widen.

Sam and Suzy look down at the water again. Captain Sharp's

voice screams from off-screen:

Sam and Suzy recoil. Captain Sharp appears, clinging to the

corner of the ledge. He shouts:

Sam and Suzy retreat slightly. Captain Sharps waves his hands

in surrender. He yells into the walkie-talkie:

Captain Sharp holds out the walkie-talkie. Social Services

voice comes over the scratchy speaker once more. She shouts:

Scout Master Ward watching from the trap door with Mr. and

Mrs. Bishop. He says excitedly into his walkie-talkie:

Social Services watching from an attic window. She says

softly into her own walkie-talkie:

Sam staring at Captain Sharp. Captain Sharp says hopefully:

Tears stream down Sam's cheeks in the rain. He looks to Suzy.

She nods. She holds Sam's hand, and Sam reaches out to take

Captain Sharp's. Captain Sharp says into the walkie-talkie:

Inside the church. The congregation listens on another walkie-

talkie. They are all just about to burst into a cheer -- when

there is a second, brighter flash followed by a much louder

bang and then a terrible, thunderous, ripping explosion. The

lights go out again. Everyone screams.

EXT. CHURCH ROOF. NIGHT

Scout Master Ward, Mr. and Mrs. Bishop, and Social Services

stare with their mouths open in frozen horror. The entire

steeple has disappeared. Only a twisted stump remains. Off

the edge of the roof, at the end of the rope, dangling in the

rain, Captain Sharp hangs swinging with Sam's hand in his

fist and Suzy's in Sam's. Voices shout in a panic above. Sam

and Suzy look up at Captain Sharp. He says to them evenly,

swaying above the rushing water:

Three days later. The detached steeple of the church lies on

its side on the roof of a smashed Volkswagen. The ground is

covered with strewn branches and trash. Sandbags still

surround the building. The narrator stands in front of the

wreckage and addresses the camera:

EXT. SCHOOL YARD. DAY

A basketball backboard sticks up out of nine feet of standing

water. The net grazes the surface. The narrator sits in a

rowboat floating alongside it.

EXT. PUBLIC BEACH. DAY

An enormous neon ace-of-spades with the word Open spelled in

broken light-bulbs above it is jammed sideways into a sandy

beach. Brightly painted wooden planks are littered

everywhere. The black lighthouse remains intact in the

background. The narrator, now tiny in the frame, continues:

EXT. SCOUT CAMP. DAY

One week later. A repaired Camp Ivanhoe sign is being hoisted

up into place above the entrance. Scouts throughout the camp

hammer, chop, nail, and saw.

Scout Master Ward's portable night stand. The reel-to-reel

tape recorder is recording. The photograph of the Scout

Master-in-Chief at the Matterhorn has been replaced by a

picture of Becky operating her switchboard.

INT. SCOUT MASTER WARD'S TENT. DAY

Scout Master Ward says into the microphone:

Scout Master Ward notices Skotak and a young boy with glasses

standing in the doorway. He says, off-mic:

Scout Master Ward presses stop on his tape recorder and leads

Skotak and the young boy out of the tent. The narrator

The narrator's nautical chart. The cove is no longer

identified.

EXT. WIDE MEADOW. DAY

One year later. The sky is blue. Wildflowers grow in the tall

grass. The narrator, now in shirtsleeves, concludes:

The narrator lingers for a moment, looking into the camera --

then turns away and walks down the hillside.

INT. BISHOP'S HOUSE. DAY

The landing at the top of the staircase. The portable record

player sits on the braided rug with the turntable spinning. A

child's voice says over the speaker:

Lionel, Murray, and Rudy lie on the floor on their stomachs,

propped up with their chins on their fists. They listen.

Suzy sits in a small armchair reading a book called The

Return of Auntie Lorraine. There is an illustration on the

cover of a leathery, old woman and a girl with a pony-tail

looking together into a crystal ball. The kitten scratches at

Suzy's feet.

Sam sits on a stool painting a picture at the small easel. He

wears a miniature version of Captain Sharp's short-sleeved

uniform with a black necktie and a baseball cap.

Mrs. Bishop's amplified voice booms from the bottom of the

Sam starts. Lionel, Murray, and Rudy look up from the record

player. Suzy is impassive. Mr. Bishop's voice takes over the

Lionel, Murray, and Rudy jump to their feet and race down the

stairs. Sam dashes to the window. He opens it, climbs out,

and disappears. Suzy closes her book and rises to her feet.

Sam's head pokes back up from below. He and Suzy lock eyes.

Sam smiles. He whispers to Suzy urgently:

Suzy smiles back. Sam ducks away. Suzy goes over to the

window and looks out with her binoculars.

A binocular shot of Sam dropping to the ground and running

across the back lawn, into the trees. He comes out on the

dirt road where Captain Sharp waits, sitting on the hood of

his station wagon, smoking a cigarette. They both get into

the car and drive off.

Suzy lowers the binoculars. She pauses in front of the easel

and looks at the picture. She walks quietly away down the

stairs. The kitten follows her. The record continues to play

on the empty landing.

The camera moves in toward Sam's painting on the easel. It is

a watercolor landscape of Mile 3.25 Tidal Inlet. The tent is

pitched on the beach, and Sam's and Suzy's clothes hang on

the clothesline. Written in the sand with seashells just at

the water's edge are the words:

