M Y   B E S T   F R I E N D ' S   W E D D I N G

by Ronald Bass

First Draft Screenplay

--------------------------------------------------------------

INT.  BOULEY RESTAURANT, NEW YORK - NIGHT

Dim lighting, crowd buzz, a long line of the rich, the celebrated,

the congenitally impatient.  Everyone in this queue holds a

reservation at least an hour overdue.  Tourists can't even make the

line.  PAN ahead to...

... the burnished dining room, the tables of power, the elegant

service.  Covertly, many eyes are drawn to the one table receiving

by far the most lavish service of all.  Captains hover, presenting

delicacies, pouring wines, murmuring obsequiously to a guest whose

person they screen from our view.  We can see, however...

... the honored guest's companion.  Ignored, bemused, across the

table.  This is DIGGER DOWNES, 36, darkly attractive.  Kind eyes,

an intellectual's mouth, Saville Row's most unobtrusive and

conservative chalk-stripe suit.  He is gay, but you wouldn't guess

it.  Loyal and wise and generous, and you might.  He watches with a

quiet twinkle, as the Captains now step back, revealing to us...

... their most unlikely icon.  JULIANNE POTTER, almost 28, wears

her favorite bulky sweater over a bunch of other stuff she pulled

together in fifteen seconds.  She is unkempt, quick, volatile,

scattered, and beneath it all, perhaps because of it all, an

original beauty.  Dark liquid eyes, a cynical mouth, slender

expressive fingers, which point to...

She doesn't like that idea at all.  Shoots him a sharp look of

doubt that makes him smile.  Murmur...

Places the moist lump of black rice before her.  She takes a

surprisingly small amount, rolls it over her tongue.  Makes dead

flat eye contact with Digger.  And nods, it's actually quite nice.

The Captain breathes with relief.  She turns her dark eyes to him.

The tone says they're pals...

As the Captain splits, Digger looks around at the other tables,

which makes many pairs of eyes awkwardly glace away.

She glances at her two remaining waiters, who shamelessly fawn

nearby.

She leans forward, as if sharing something conspiratorial.

Pushes the risotte across to him.  He lifts a fork.

She shrugs.  Pulls a cellular out of a large, jumbled bag.

She dials.  He tastes.

She's punching in her code.

Over the phone, we hear her answering machine...

And her face changes.  Warms.  Just to hear the guileless voice.

She looks impressed and surprised.  Fancy place for this guy.

As she hangs up.  She still has that look in her eye.  Digger has

never seen that, and he likes it very much.

She smiles.  A sweet, natural smile that makes us like her, too.

The Bohemian sophisticate has vanished.

He pushes the risotto back her way.

Her gaze sharpens.  Hmmn?

She blushes.  Shakes her head, no way.

He knows her.  She got restless.

He knows.

He nods, yeah.

Hears the feeling.  In her voice.

Silence now.  She covers with a smile.

Ever since.  Fingers turning her wine glass...

No offense taken.

That stops her.  She has to say...

Something she probably hasn't confessed out loud before.  Digger

understands.

He wants her to know he sees that.

A young waiter arrives.  Sets a boat of black squid ink beside her

plate.

The kid tops off her glass of meursault.  Looking at her.

The waiter hanging now.  Openly listening.

Digger sees the guy listening, gestures to her with his eyes.  So

she looks up.

The kid stunned, speechless.  People lose jobs for a lot less.

He reddens and disappears.

She places the tips of her index fingers together.

And laughs again.  Can you believe that?  But Digger isn't smiling.

She wonders why.  Begins to spoon black squid ink onto her risotto.

He still has this real serious look.  She's still spooning ink.

And everything.  Stops.  She lifts her spoon, mesmerized by the

gravity of his tone.

Holy.  Fucking.  Shit.  It hits her like a ton of lead bricks.  She

shovels some swampy risotto into her mouth, without looking.

She shovels in more drippy black goop.  It is really disgusting.

More goes in.  Her lips and mouth completely black.  Like a circus

clown.

Ink is now dribbling out of the black hole of her mouth and down

her face.  She absently dabs a napkin, keeping some of it from

reaching her sweater.

She realizes the full weight of the truth.

Staring in each other's eyes.

INT. JULIANNE'S BATHROOM - LATE NIGHT

Julianne furiously scrubs her blackened tongue with a toothbrush.

Gray foam pours from her mouth, spattering the oversized basketball

jersey she wears as a nightshirt.  In the mirror, her troubled eyes

dwell on Michael, flick to the cordless phone standing ominously on

the closed toilet lid.

She spits, sticks her tongue way out.  Incredibly black.  Great.

Depressed, terrified, and disfigured for life.  She snatches up the

hated phone, and wanders aimlessly into...

... her bedroom.  West Village view.  Defiantly jumbled, aggres-

sively eclectic.  Traces of wonderful taste mixed with I-like-it-

you-got-a-problem-with-that? She stumbles around, rehearsing...

Stops.  Full-length mirror.  She straightens her hair, to look her

best.

Not enough.

Changes tone...

She turns to continue pacing, and walks straight INTO a dresser.

Stuns her, momentarily.  Enough, already! She punches up the

number, primping absently in the mirror.  When it connects...

No such luck.  Cut off.  Waits.  And then...

She forgets herself.  Because it's good to hear his, too.

She swallows.

Silence.  Come on girl, suck it up.

More silence.  Really quiet.

Stops her.  Like a brick wall.  The sweetness in his voice.

She's going to have a heart attack.

She blinks.  It's not.  And just as a tsunami of relief begins to

sweep away...

And her smiles breaks off.  Like a spine snapping.  Because there is

something in his voice.

Never.  She sits down, hard.  Right on the floor.

Like when.  Julianne's mouth is suddenly dry.

She's finally making her mouth work...

Wow.

There's a knife in her heart.  She can scarcely breathe.

She's staring at herself in the mirror.

A straw to lunge at.

So heartfelt.  A lifetime of emotion welling in her eyes.

Oh.

HOLD ON Julianne.  Staring in the mirror.  Like watching the end of

her life.

INT.  BEDROOM - LATER

The closet, the armoire, all the drawers are wide open.  Two huge

suitcases open on the bed, into which Julianne is flinging clothes,

as she fumbles to smoke and dial at the same time.  Over the phone,

now...

BEEP.

SNATCHES up a tiny, clingy, sexy dress.  Pouts at it.

She holds the dress against her body.  It's hot.

She clicks OFF.  Checks the dress in the mirror.  Raises the short

skirt a little higher.

INT. DIGGER'S CHEROKEE, JFK AIRPORT - EARLY MORNING

Digger driving the open-air Cherokee up the ramp to United Airlines

departures.  Julianne, wind-whipped, trying to light a fresh

cigarette from the butt of the last one.  He glances over.  Hates

to see this...

She sucks deep.  Really deep.

She is tight enough to snap.  And at the edge of tears.  Staring

out at the skycaps, clinging to her cigarette, as he eases to the

curb.

She finally looks at him.  He doesn't say anything.

He's not.  So her voice softens.  Which shows the hurt.

Tears now.  Stand in her eyes.

He wraps his hand over hers.  She looks down at it.

She wraps her fingers around his.

Looks in his eyes.

And she kisses his cheek.

Jumps out of his car.  Before she cries.  Yanks her bags from the

back.  Brave smile.

They trade small salutes.  And then she's gone.

INT.  O'HARA AIRPORT, CHICAGO - MORNING

The jetway disgorging passengers into the swarming ant colony

called O'Hare.  Julianne lugging multiple carry-ons, trying to pull

fly-away strands of hair into place, nervous as a schoolgirl,

looking all around, and...

... there he is.  MICHAEL is tall and square-shouldered, a boyish

grin, an unruly shock of hair.  He looks gorgeous, sweet, and just

dangerous enough to be irresistible.  Worthwhile stakes.  His face

lights to see her, and she...

... RUNS to his arms, shedding bags along the way, slamming off

heedless civilians, to be...

... SWEPT OFF the earth in strong arms, spun around, laughing like

crazy, their cheeks tight together.  When he sets her down...

... he kisses her nose.  His arms are still around her.

He beams.  Turns.  She follows his gaze, and...

... there she is.  KIMBERLY WALLACE is 20, small and slender, but it

is a body to die for.  The face is striking, not at all perky and

vapid, but lovely and interesting.  Worst of all, intelligent.

She walks toward them purposefully, her eyes locked to the woman in

her fiancee's arms.  At the last moment, Michael releases Julianne

and Kimmy...

... THROWS her arms around the startled visitor.  HOLDS her tight,

with such genuine warmth that Julianne can only, slowly, hug back.

As Michael beams.

Her arms stay around the slightly dazed Julianne.  The younger

girl leans close, confides...

Pale gray eyes.  Alive with joy and intimacy.

INT.  KIMMY'S CONVERTIBLE - DAY

Kimmy TEARING down the throughway in her Mercedes 500 SL, a

dashing, confident driver.  Julianne riding shotgun, hair flying, a

total wreck, in the open convertible.  Michael is happily crouched

on the little platform behind their seats, hugging his knees.  The

roar of the wind makes it impossible for him to hear them.

Kim glances over.  At eighty miles an hour.  A bittersweet look.

Her eyes at once admiring and regretful.

Shakes her head.  An endearing youngster.

She looks back to the highway.

Julianne studying the delicate, angular profile.  Hard not to like

this kid.

Looks over.  The sweetest smile.

Julianne just blinks.

We CUT OFF a huge SEMI who BLASTS his horn.  Kimmy fearless,

oblivious, and analytical...

Sees the off-ramp, and SLICES across FOUR LANES of speeding bullets

in a heart-stopping nanosecond.  This kid could drive for Penske.

Julianne has to pound her chest to get her heart started.  Looks

back to see if Michael fell out...

... he is absurdly wind-blown.  Gives her a beautiful grinning

thumbs-up.  Loves this stuff.

Brings Julianne's eyes back...

Easing off the freeway.  She meets Julianne's glance...

INT.  DRESS SHOP, NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE - MORNING

The place is stunning.  High-ceiling, soft light, large rococo

mirrors, Louis Quatorze sofas and chairs.  Michael wanders rest-

lessly, fish out of water among designer displays and stylish

female patrons.

Takes a look at his watch.

INT.  DRESSING ROOM - MORNING

A period sitting room, ringed with mirrors along its tapestried

walls.  Kimmy sits on a Louis Treize loveseat next to a stack of

costly gowns.  Watching with an expertise beyond her years, as...

... Julianne stands on a platform.  A seamstress fitting her into a

sleek pale daffodil-colored gown.  There are pins everywhere, as

the seamstress struggles toward a perfect fit.  Continuously

looking to Kim for approval.

Julianne shakes her head.  This one is beautiful.

Julianne glances over.

Oh.  Well, yeah.

And she stops.  Not wanting to offend.

The look holds.  The seamstress keeps working, as if she's deaf.

She stands up.  Walks to the platform.  Smooths her hand over the

fabric down Julianne's back, along her hips.  Communicating to the

seamstress with her irritated expression.

Pins start to come out.  Kimmy points, these, too!

She leans forward.  So they can look at each other.

Julianne swallows.  It is that.

And before anyone can breathe, she steps OFF the platform RIPPING

the living shit out of the gown, right down the side.  The seam-

stress' eyes FLASH OPEN in abject horror.  Julianne, a deer in

headlights, looks quickly around at the evidence of her screw-up in

six different mirrors.

Kimberly just steps to her, fingers the tear...

And UNZIPS Julianne down the back.  In her rush to step out,

Julianne STUMBLES,  but her arms are pinned by the pulled-down dress

and she just...

... TOPPLES like a felled oak, THUDDING on her face, the gown

RIPPING some more, the seamstress SCREAMING like an idiot.

Then.  Silence.  Julianne looking up helplessly, a trussed hog,

bound in her dress.

Like you talk to a three-year-old.  Deftly, Kimmy pulls the

dress free, leaving Julianne in her underwear.  Signals to the

seamstress, let's go.

Opens the door...

Closed SOLID.  Gone.

INT.  DRESSING ROOM - LATER

Julianne sits on the loveseat in her bra and panties, lighting one

cigarette from the butt of another.  Suddenly, she hears...

... an ARGUMENT outside the door.  Strains to listen.  It does sound

like Michael and Kim.  We can't make out the words.  She jumps up,

dashes for the door, STUBBING her toe on the platform, SHIT!, falls

heavily AGAINST the door with a THUD that makes her wince, and...

... the argument stops.  Damn.  She opens the door a crack.  Sees

nothing.  Opens it wider to reveal...

... a teenaged BOY looking right at her.  He sends a true shit-

eating grin and she SLAMS the door hard enough to RATTLE walls.

She PACES furiously, helplessly, arms around her half-naked self,

until...

... soft knock.  The door opens a crack, and her daffodil gown

comes through it.

Stops.  Because it's Michael who has entered.  With the dress.

So he does.  She flushes and SNATCHES up her own clothes, which

were characteristically tangled in a heap, and tries desperately to

untangle them enough to cover herself.  He is amazed and amused by

her embarrassment.

She's TEARING at her clothes, only making more of a mess.

She seems ready to rip her clothes apart, so he gently takes them

from her hands.  She tries to stand unselfconsciously as he easily

untangles them.

She GRABS the clothes and covers the front of herself.  Looking at

him with a mix of emotions she couldn't begin to sort out.

He looks in her eyes.  And nods, a little sadly.  Guess they are.

He walks to the door.  Puts his hand on the latch.  Looks back...

The look holds.  And holds.  There is such feeling on both sides,

she doesn't know what to make of it.  She swallows.

And he's gone.  She looks around at six different VIEWS of her

uncovered backside.  Hmm.

INT.  HOTEL UNDERGROUND GARAGE - DAY

The parking valets wait by their stand as the convertible pulls up.

These girls must be late for something, the way they're jumping out

of the car.

The valet gives Kimmy her ticket.

They're walking fast toward the garage elevators...

Well...

At the elevator.  Kimmy SLAMS the button.

End of story.  Okay?

An empty elevator arrives.  They get in.

Kimmy SLAMS the penthouse button.  Looks at her calmly.  Go on.

Julianne imitates an incredibly annoying high-pitched SNARL.  Three

times.  Kimmy nods.

Stopped at the lobby.  A family of four gets in.  Oblivious, Kimmy

DEMONSTRATES the phlegm rattle.  Really gets into it.  As the

family watches, Julianne tries her own version.  Like that? No.

More like this.  The family is looking at each other.

Oh.

Sucks in a breath...

Ninth floor.  The family gets out.  The door closes.

She SLAMS the EMERGENCY STOP button.  We JOLT to a halt.

Shakes her head.

From her heart.

Julianne's face.  Stops.

Kimmy nods.  Confides...

A stopper.

Julianne blinks.  Excuse me?

Oh.  Julianne smiles.  LUNGES for the EMERGENCY button, YANKING it

so hard it comes OFF in her hand.  A terrifying BUZZER ensures.

Begins BANGING random buttons, out of control.  Kimmy watching

this.  Julianne looks WILDLY up...

RIPPING off her platform shoes.

Kimmy taps her.  Points to the lighted panel.  It says PH, they've

reached the Penthouse.

Takes a heavy platform and begins BANGING the metal door with all

her strength, sending resounding BOOMS throughout the area, as

Kimmy reaches and...

... presses DOOR OPEN.  The metal doors part, opening directly onto

the banquet room, just as a mighty blow comes down, and the platform

FLIES from Julianne's hand straight BETWEEN...

... two identical stunning YOUNG WOMEN, serving as twin hostesses

for the shower.  A beat of mutually-stupefied looks, and we hear

the shoe CRASH somewhere, to a small spattering of SHRIEKS.

AMANDA and SAMANTHA NEWHOUSE, 19-year-old twins.  True Southern

belles, with the faces of angels and bodies made for hot oil

wrestling.  Mandy's hair is dyed ash blonde, Sammy's is amber.

Otherwise, the experience is similar.

The girls cast identical blank looks at Kimberly.

All eyes turn to an elegant woman of barely 40.  She has her

daughter's hair and eyes and slender form.  But the bearing rules

half an empire.  Fonda would envy.

She takes both of Julianne's hands, and our heroine is sort of

magically charmed.  As if touched by Glinda the Good Witch of the

North.

Looking warmly in her eyes...

Flicks a glance at the twins.  Leads Julianne off...

INT.  TAXI, SOUTH SIDE - DAY

Cab crawling toward COMISKEY PARK through stifling traffic.

Julianne oblivious, cellular to her ear...

SQUAWK.  Static.  Then...

Listens.

She shakes her head.  What a guy.

INT.  LUXURY BOX, COMISKEY PARK - AFTERNOON

Game in progress.  Watched by Michael, three groomsmen his age, two

middle-aged men, and one bodyguard.  Suddenly, a dull THUMPING at

the door.  It keeps up.  They finally all look over.  The bodyguard

gets the door, revealing...

One single tray.  Holding fourteen beers.  Balancing on one hand.

Michael JUMPS UP, terrified at the impending mayhem this sight

suggests...

He stops in his tracks.  The guys whistle.

She goes first to the bodyguard.

Heads down the row...

She's nodding, flawlessly plucking two beers each from perimeter

of the tray, keeping the rest perfectly balanced in the center.

Michael is flat dumbstruck.  Next, a tall patrician gentleman with

rolled-up sleeves on his hand-stitched silk shirt...

Once again, she gracefully plucks two beers for the distinguished

father-in-law...

Sets them down.  The man has a smile wonderful in its ease.

Murmurs...

A nod between equals.  She moves on...

She sure does, and effortlessly balancing her one-hand load, she

dips to kiss a porky, balding guy with big-time shoulders.

Straight on the lips.

They go way back.  He is uncomfortable at this rich man's wedding,

even as gracious as everyone has been.  His watering eyes twinkle

at her, and the voice has a trace of Boston...

Despite SHOUTS from the others...

Her innocent smile.

BIG reaction from the guys, as she heads toward Michael with the

last of the beers, not looking down at the FIELDER'S MITT which

lies right in her path, and as his lips part to scream a warning,

she skips...

... neatly AROUND it.  He's in shock.

As he takes away the remaining beers...

Hot dog? His eyes fix on her left breast.  HUGE mustard stain.

She can't believe it.

EXT.  LUXURY BOX ROOF - DAY

Michael and Julianne sit with their beers on the edge of the luxury

box roof.  The game, the stadium, spread out beneath them.  Yet

they are alone in the world.  She dangles her legs, and we can hear

her kicking the glass below.

Drinking their beers.  Side by side.  Both stare only at the game.

Keep sipping.  Never look at each other.

Shakes his head.  This one really gets him.

This is not the ammunition Julianne was hoping for.

She looks over now.  And Michael is looking back.  Smiling the most

wonderful smile.  Her reaction shows that she thinks it's for her,

until...

Hating herself for asking, but seeing no way out...

The look in his eyes.  She can hardly bear it.

He seems so deeply in love.

A beat.  A slow nod.  A quiet...

INT.  SOUTH SIDE CLUB - NIGHT

A slender black woman sings a SOARING Gospel number, backed by

three ladies who could each solo in any church choir.  It is

mesmerizing, stirring, transcendent.  The unseen audience CLAPPING

FIERCELY in rhythm, SHOUTING support.  SLOW PAN now...

... every face is black.  We aren't in church at all, but a

venerable blue club.  One of those places you'd swear everybody's

played, from Robert Johnson to Bessie Smith and back again.  As

the song ends, there is APPLAUSE, some RAPPING on tables with their

knuckles or their drunks.  We keep PANNING to a far corner.  Three

faces.

Julianne leans across her beer to Kimmy...

Kim shaking her head.  Looks admiringly to Michael...

She reaches slender fingers.  Traces one back along his hair.

Now he's grinning at Julianne.  And she likes that a lot.

Together in the memory.  As Kimmy watches.

And, the first sniff of left-out...

Julianne's eyes flicker.  Could this be a teensy opening? Keeps

her eyes, her easy smile, and her killer instincts trained on

Michael.

He nods, okay.

He draws a breath...

And the happy couple look at each other.  They are awkward.

Julianne's heart soar like eagle.

Could this be.  The Mother Lode?

The couple still staring in each other's eyes.

And she smiles.  Beautifully.

EXT.  CLUB - NIGHT

Michael putting Kim in the back of a cab.  As Julianne watches.

Kim smiles.  He kisses her, tenderly, through the open window.  She

waves past him at Julianne.

And drives off.  As he watches after, Julianne comes up behind him.

Slips her hand up onto his shoulder muscle.  Starts giving a little

massage.

Turns his head, to see her.  She's still rubbing his shoulder.

Share a smile.  As always, it covers a lot of years.

She looks around.  It is an issue.  But she remembers...

She means that.  He takes her by the hand.  They begin walking...

He's let go of her hand now.  Looking down at the pavement before

him, fists in his jacket pockets.

Hit a nerve.  This is promising.

Paydirt.  Julianne's Geiger Counter is going berserk.

He looks over at her.  No smile on his face.  An edge we haven't

seen.  She shrugs...

They've reached the stairs to the El.  A rickety train RATTLES

above them.  As they start up, she slips her arm around his

waist...

He slides his arm around her shoulder.  Pals.  They climb out of

frame.

INT.  HOTEL BATHROOM - LATE NIGHT

CLOSE on a shallow pool of water in a bathroom sink.  Green powder

pouring in, a hand SWIRLING it around, until...

... it becomes truly disgusting lumpy green mud.

Follow the hand up as it SLATHERS the shit across her face in great

green dripping gobs.  She's juggling the wall phone, trying to keep

it mudless, as she assures Digger...

More green slime.  The Julianne we know disappears.

Desecrates three hotel towels, wiping her hand.

THROWS them in the bathtub.  Fastidiousness a short suit.

Reaches for her toothbrush, absently.  All her attention is on the

conversation and the hideous green face in the mirror.

Without looking, picks up a tube of hotel shampoo...

Squeezes it all over the toothbrush.

Lifts it toward her mouth, liquid shampoo dripping from the

bristles.

At the last second.  She stops.  We don't know why, because she's

still never looked at the brush.

Turns on the tap.  Tries to scrub the toothbrush clean, and DROPS

the phone into the green swamp, which SPATTERS all over her front.

Euucch.  She's stymied, agitated, circling the sink, leaning down

to it...

She sets the toothbrush down in her toiletries kit.  Decides to

YANK on the phone's cord, and the receiver SPRINGS out, BOPPING

her in the face.  She's so filthy at this point, she just wipes it

clean on her nightshirt.  Tells Digger...

Lifts the toothbrush and tube of paste from her kit.

Squeezes on the paste, lifts the brush to her mouth...

JAMS it in her mouth, brushing as...

Stops.  The funniest look on her face.  Down to the toothpaste

tube...

Which says BEN GAY.

Oh.

INT.  TIFFANY'S - MORNING

Julianne and Kimmy cruise the stately display cases.  Everywhere,

the Tiffany logo, the silent, watchful staff in morning coats.  As

they browse, Julianne takes a blueberry Danish from a paper sack,

and begins to eat.

The staff notices.  So does Kim.

Hmm?

Kimmy doesn't.  But wipes a blue glob from Julianne's face.

Wrong?

Before?

Points to some jade pins.  Kimmy wrinkles her nose.

Smiles.

None of this is lost on Kimmy.  She's wondered the same.

Kim nods slowly.  Way ahead of her.

Kim stares back.  A strange look.

Julianne just blinks.  Amazed.

Pointing to tiny golden scissors in the novelty case.  Kim so

absorbed by the main topic, she has to force herself to focus on...

Points to the tiny hand-lettered sign.  Indeed.  Kimmy shrugs, not

quite it.

Julianne points to a matched pair of large...

Kim nods, oh.  But can't keep her mind off...

Hmm?

Oh, well...

Kimmy nodding slowly.  Her yearing achingly apparent.

A very sweet smile.

Kim nods again.  Right.  They are so bonded at this moment.

Kimmy bites her lip.  Her eyes go down.  Self-conscious to admit...

Her voice trails off.

That brings the gray eyes up.  Julianne bats her dark ones...

Kimmy has to smile small.  A self-awe gal.

Julianne 'thinks it over.' Kimmy waits for guidance.

Simple.

Kimmy nodding.  Hope overriding reason.

Turns up her palms.  Viola!

They share a smile.

Mr.  Mooney is the most gracious Brit salesperson ever to offer

kindness, intelligence and thoughtfulness to a customer.  He is

large, sixty, with disappearing hair, watering eyes, and a manner

that makes you think of immediately hiring a butler.

Ah.  Julianne nodding.  Reflecting.

Julianne digs through her jumbled bag...

Tossing an object on the counter...

It is a MASTERCARD.  A gold one.

They smile at each other.  More bonded than ever.

A beat.  Can Julianne even make herself do this?

What do you think? Julianne stares into the soft gray eyes.  It's

now or never.  The smile of a dear sister...

INT.  FASHION RESTAURANT - LUNCH HOUR

Julianne enters with a really nervous Kimberly in tow.  Approaches

the maitre d'.  We CLOSE to hear...

Points to an escalator, leading to the mezzanine.  Behind a glass

wall, what looks like a British men's club.  Thirty guys and a

billion cigars.  As Julianne starts toward it...

She turns back.  Loves this shit.

Her look is every bit as hard as his.  He gestures to the

escalator.  She takes Kimmy's hand, and up they go.  We can see

Walter in a big leather chair, enjoying a major stogie.  Kimmy

licks her lips.

They enter.  Every head turns.  A nice range of reactions, from

offended to attracted and points in between.

Kimmy nods.  Heads over toward her father.  Julianne walks,

confidently, even provocatively, to the wall lined with bins of

cigars.  Every eye in the place is on her butt.

She runs her fingers over a few contenders.  Plucks one out,

examines it, puts it back.  Walks a little farther.  Selects

another, big and black.  Rolls it expertly in her fingers.  Sniffs

along its length.

A guy comes over.  Could be 40, successful, a broker's pin-stripe.

Nearly as attractive as he thinks he is.

Little lady, huh? She glances at his coven of buddies, who pretend

not to notice.  Then, straight to the guy's blue eyes.

Ah.  Wit.  She holds up her cigar...

Runs it under her nose.

Takes a match from a cut crystal bowl.

And she does.  Moistening the full length of the cigar.  The boys

are laughing openly.  She STRIKES the match.  As she lights up...

She glances at his wedding ring.  Then, straight into his eyes.

The way she says that.  The guy swallows.  We can see some of the

air has been sucked from the room.

Explosive LAUGHTER from the peanut gallery.  As she jams the big

Clemente Churchill into her mouth, she sees Kimmy waving her over

from across the room.  Without even looking at the guy she's just

put away...

... she crosses the room, Walter stands politely, looking very

dapper, very powerful, and focusing on her with considerable

interest.  He waits until she sits on the edge of a costly leather

hassock.

She can't read this guy.  Maybe that's how he built an empire.  She

nods, yeah.

He sits on the arm of his chair.  Close enough to speak quietly.

He puffs his cigar.  Julianne puffs her.  Kimmy looks on, a kid

watching the grown-ups...

Then he stops.  As if reading Julianne's eyes.

One more puff.

Julianne is a little stunned.  Kimmy looks helpless.

No smile on his lips.  Straight talk.

Spreads his hands...

He looks to his daughter now.

His eyes come back to her.  A little sharply.

A formidable guy.  She meets his gaze.

From her heart.

INT.  TOILET STALL - DAY

Julianne, fully dressed, sits on the closed lid of a toilet seat.

The stall is tiny enough to arouse claustrophobia in an astronaut.

Her cellular phone pressed to her ear, she is listening angrily,

smoking ferociously, every call in her body running at red-line.

She closes her eyes.

Deep drag on the cigarette.  For strength.

She's striped her gears.  COUGHS horribly.

INT.  PUBLIC RESTROOM - DAY

Julianne exits the stall.  To face three BLACK TEENAGE GIRLS.  Just

staring at her.

Julianne nods to the kids.  They nod back.  Damn straight.  She

exits the restroom, into...

... glaring sunlight.  We are in the middle of the BROOKFIELD ZOO.

And sitting on a bench, eating popcorn from a bag...

She shudders.

EXT.  ZOO - DAY

Michael and Julianne walking together.  He's eating his popcorn.

She carries a cardboard container with nachos, a gooey fudge waffle

cone, and a large drink.

She swirls a single nacho chip in cheese.  But her heart isn't in it.

And when she looks over.  His eyes are waiting.

They're passing the hippo pen.  But they don't notice.

So was that.  He's feeling restless, something.  Doesn't know quite

what to say.

He holds her eyes.  Then looks down.  Awkward.  And the way he's

doing it begins to excite her.

He looks up, neither one of them noticing that as they walk, she is

about to...

... CRASH into a chest-high metal stand that displays animal facts.

We have followed him as she is WIPED from frame.  His face from

shock... to amusement.

... to tenderness.  PAN back to see her wearing everything from her

cardboard container.  Nachos, fudge sauce, Diet Coke, the works.

It is really awful.  Kids, bystanders, laughing cruelly.  Her eyes

fill with tears, and she tries bravely to smile against it...

He takes out his handkerchief.  And with that and his hands, gently

scoops the worst of the mess off her.  The fact that he's touching

her breasts and her body is something they pretend not to notice.

She laughs softly, and a few tears fall, even though she doesn't

know why.  Such an odd, raw, confusing moment.  To the world

looking on, they are lovers.

And he kisses her face.  Not quite her lips.  But only an inch away.

We can feel her heart pounding.  He strips off his shirt, only a tank

top underneath.

Okay? She sniffles, okay.  Swallows.

He puts his arm around her.

Holds her close, as they start toward the restroom...

We're on their backs...

EXT.  BEACH CLUB, LAKE MICHIGAN - SUNSET

Julianne in T-shirt and shorts, rushes onto the deck of a sprawling

beach club.  Clutching her bag, she quickly surveys the scene...

... the entire beach has been taken over by the wedding party.

Young folks, old folks, little kids, maybe 200 people.  We SCAN

with her to find a crowd around...

... a three-on-three volleyball game.  Kimmy and two groomsmen on

one side, facing Michael and the Tennessee debs.  The twins wear

spectacular bikinis and are surprisingly athletic, as well as

predictably uninhabited.  As the next point begins, Kimmy serves...

... Sammy in back makes a nice dig, lobbing to Mandy who sets for

Michael's vicious SPIKE straight THROUGH his best man's hapless

defense.  The crowd cheers Michael, and as he turns, Mandy gives

him a savage...

... CHEST BUMP of congratulation, that any NFL linebacker would be

proud of.  It puts the surprised Michael straight on his butt.

Laughter, applause.  The twins pull him up and Sammy gives him a

hot kiss on his ear that makes the crowd react.  Kim plays good

sport.  Julianne watches Michael's body for a beat, then...

... dashes off.  Down the beach, several barbecue grills have been

set up.  Manned by beach club staff and family alike.  Michael's

pop, Joe, is dispensing beers from a keg.  Kim's mom, Isabelle, is

coordinating the beans, potato salad and corn-on-the-cob table.

Julianne races across the sand to...

... a huge smoky grill where Walter is basting baby back ribs,

clearly enjoying himself.  Julianne runs up to him, says something

into his ear.  He looks at her.  Then turns his station over to a

club steward, and follows Julianne down toward the lakeside.

CLOSE now.  As they stroll together, she's a little breathless.

He's watching her profile, curious, silent.  At the water's edge...

She reaches into her big bag.  Pulls out a single folded sheet of

paper.

His face darkens.  The easy smile fades.  He holds up his palms...

His smile returns.  Just a little.

The look holds.  She thrusts the paper out.  He still doesn't take

it.

She opens the paper.

He takes the paper.  We see it now.  Looks authentic.

He looks up.  He's listening.  Closely.

She bites her lip.  Seems so earnest.

He does.

He's staring at her.  But his mind is working behind his eyes.

He taps the paper with the back of his knuckles.

She nods.  She knows that.

She takes the paper back.

The long straight look.  Maybe he's hooked.

INT.  LOBBY, RITZ CARLTON HOTEL - TWILIGHT

Tall, gangly, young DESK CLERK.  Lank hair, pimples.  He looks up,

beams to see...

She's flirting her ass off.

And she reaches across the desk with her lovely, slender hands.

Does it for him.  Her fingers brush his chest on the way back.  We

can assume a woody.

He does.  His eyes flick toward his stately female SUPERVISOR,

helping another guest across the way.

The boy swallows hard.

Not only does Julianne see her.  The woman is looking back, while

she's talking to her customer.  Not a pleasant look.

INT.  HOTEL CORRIDOR - TWILIGHT

An elevator OPENS, revealing Julianne, carrying a gym bag.  She

looks down the long hallway, sees a maid's cart.  Heads the other

way, briskly, to...

... a small ALCOVE.  Opens the gym bag, pulling out a bath towel.

Begins to yank her top up OVER her head...

ANGLE... the young MAID now pushing her cart down the hall, wheels

SQUEAKING, and from nowhere...

... Julianne DARTS into her path, barely covered by the towel held

tight across her, she is grinning, blushing.

The maid can only blink.

And looks frantically up the hall, mortified that any moment a

stranger could happen upon her predicament.  Her eyes dart back to

the maid.  PLEASE.  The maid just stares.  Stares.

Oh.

INT.  MICHAEL'S ROOM - TWILIGHT

Julianne alone in his room, looking around frantically.  No worries

about this guy making his bed every day, stuff, clothes, strewn

everywhere, the bathroom looks like a cherry bomb just detonated.

She's tramping through a bachelor's debris, wearing only her towel,

looking, looking...

There it is.  The corner of his LAPTOP sticking out from beneath a

discarded bedspread.  She SNATCHES it up, OPENS it, sets it on the

cluttered desk, and...

... stops.  There are wallet-sized SNAPSHOTS of Kimmy.  Some alone.

Some as a little girl.  Some with Michael.  And next to them...

... the plastic fold-out wallet inset.  That he has not yet quite

rearranged.  So she picks it up.  Leafs through, until she finds

what she was praying would be there...

... Julianne grinning.  Michael's arm around her.  On the deck of a

boat.  They have drinks in their hands.  Happiness in their eyes.

And she stares at it.  Jesus, God, how long has he carried this

around?  She flips through further, all the rest have her in them.

Maybe half a dozen.  Her heart is throbbing.  Her eyes are damp.

Back to the one on the boat.  She slips it from the plastic window.

Holds it.  Then, gently...

... puts it back where it belongs.  PUNCHES up the goddamn laptop.

This is it, girl!  Do or die.

Those words make her bite her lip.  Damn, I'm becoming a senti-

mental slob.  TYPES in...

Yes!  We're in!  Punching keys.  Letters flying across the screen.

Okay, we're ready.  Types...

INT.  BEACH CLUB CARD ROOM - EVENING

Through the window, the wedding party barbecue has extended into

night.  Lanterns, music, lots more food, lots more drinks.  In the

distance, on the sand, Michael is slowdancing with Kimmy.  Some-

where nearby, the soft CLICKING of keys.  We PULL BACK to see...

... a small clubby room.  Books, leather, polished woods.  Only

two people here.  Walter, looking on stony-faced, as a determined

Julianne grimly "struggles" to "find" what she's looking for in

Michael's laptop.  And then...

... she stops typing.  Looks at the text on the screen.  Her eyes

sharpen as she "reads" what Walter can't see.  It's an Oscar

performance for our desperate girl.  She turns the screen around...

He reads.  Reads.  Reads.  All the air comes out of him.

She shakes her head.  Nope.  No way.

She nods, gravely.  Right.  He looks in her eyes.

She forces up a fleeting smile of gratitude.  But Walter isn't

smiling at all.

INT.  CHARLES TROTTER'S BAR - NIGHT

The hot saloon in Chinatown.  Upscale, downscale, jammed, Michael

and Kimmy at a small table in a far corner.  CLOSE on them...

She looks really scared.  Turns her drink in her hand.  Looking

down at it.

He takes her hand, tenderly.

She smiles up at him.  The best she can.

She loves him so much, and she is sick with worry.

Stops.  Gestures with her eyes.  Because her big sister has just

entered...

... looking fabulous.  Julianne wears a long sleek sarong, slightly

see-through.  Her hair is bound up with silver pins.  As she moves

through the room toward us, we can see that, for once, her make-up

is flawless, understated.  When she arrives at the table...

... Michael is beaming, admiringly.  He stands up.

He holds her chair.  She exchanges an intimate smile with the

anxious Kim.

And he starts humming.  The song is, "The Way You Look Tonight."

They sit.  He looks from Julianne to his bride.

Kim's eyes flick to Julianne, who nods, supportively.  The kid

takes a breath.

His face sort of comes to a stop.  Nothing she can read, yet.  He

nods, yeah...?

His eyes flick to Julianne.  She looks down.

She can see it now.  In his eyes.  She just can't tell how bad.

So quiet.  So cold.  She is terrified.

She swallows.  Straightens her spine.

Real quiet.  Against the noise of this place.

Just the thing.  To bring that anger near the surface.  He turns

to Kim...

A demand.  Sharp.  Accusing.  She doesn't like that...

She's trapped.  Angry, scared.  A deer in headlights.

Silence.

He can't even believe he's hearing this.

Shrugs.

Glares in her eyes.

Back to Kim...

She's crying now.  Real tears on her face.

She is sobbing now.  She can't help herself.  Which makes him

totally crazy.  He jumps up.

A wrenching cry from her heart.  It stops him cold.  And before

Julianne's astonished eyes, Kimmy reaches out a trembling hand...

Choking back the sobs.

Michael blinks.  Julianne blinks.  For different reasons.

Her fingers stretch, beckoning.

Please, please, take my hand.

People are watching, staring.  These two see only each other.

A frozen, forever moment.  He steps to her...

... LIFTS her up in his arms.  Into the deepest, most heartfelt

KISS.  And as she clings to him, people begins to APPLAUD, and

whistle, and laugh.

Julianne.  In her pretty dress.  Closes her eyes.

INT.JULIANNE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Julianne in her nightshirt, her back to us, sobbing into her

cellular as she paces the room...

We CLOSE as she WHIPS around, startling us with her grotesque day-

glo PURPLE face mask.  The green was better.

Losing it.  We know the drill.

Clutching the phone.

Tears are flowing.  Which, over this mask, is not a pretty sight.

She TRIPS over an open suitcase, and DISAPPEARS from frame.  The

THUD is slightly alarming.

HOLD.  On nothing is particular.

INT. JULIANNE'S ROOM - EARLY MORNING

REAR VIEW of Julianne asleep on the floor, sunlight streaming in.

A soft knocking on a door, somewhere nearby.  She barely stirs.

The knock becomes a strong RAPPING, and she fights for conscious-

ness.  Her back still to us, she...

... rises, STUMBLES to the door, which is now pulsing with an

insistent POUNDING, and THROWS it OPEN, as we SNAP to...

REVERSE ANGLE... CLOSE on Julianne's face, still encased in a now-

decomposing PURPLE MASK, her eyes SPRINGING wide, she SCREAMS in

shock, and we SNAP BACK to...

ORIGINAL ANGLE... Digger, watching impassively at the high-strung

SHRIEK.  In the silence that follows...

He touches his face, and she realizes!

Starts CLAWING at the overripe mask, but he grabs her wrists.

She looks in his eyes.  Realizing at last.

He still holds her wrists.  She brings one of his hands to her

lips.  Kisses his knuckles.

INT.  BATHROOM - MORNING

Julianne seated at the sink, staring into the mirror, as Digger

gently applies soup, cloth and water to easing away the mask.  A

paleontologist restoring a Bronze Age artifact.  By the side of the

half-filled sink, rests her plugged-in curling iron.

She looks up at him and WINCES, as the movement makes him scrape

her face.  He's sorry.

Looking in his eyes.  Needs him to hear.

Can you believe this?

She holds his wrists now.  To stop him.  To plead for

understanding.  Forgiveness.

She almost choked on that last part.  So she composes herself.

She swallows hard.  Fights for a grip on her determination.

She sets her jaw.

His eyes are gentle and merciless at once.  No way she gets off

this hook.

And the defenses drain from her clay-ravaged features.  The real

Julianne is glimpsed.

For...?

Her eyes tear up.

As the tears fall, he wipes at them, discovering...

Oh.

He thinks about this.  Following her eyes to the toiletries kit, he

browses for a moment...

He stops on that note.

She's hysterical.

Now.  He's curious.

She reaches to test her curling iron, BURNS her finger, SHIT!

KNOCKING the appliance into the half-filled sink.  She LUNGES for

it, and a terrified Digger GRASPS her arm...

Huh?

Oh.

He reaches to pull the plug from the wall, and now she LUNGES to

grab his arm, slipping, her face falling forward, stopping an inch

above the sink.

She looks from the plug down the cord, to the submerged curling

iron.  And back.

He's staring at her.  Sweet, but intense.

Oh.  Again.

Looking at her.  Looking at her.

INT.  ARMANI - MORNING

Julianne has cleaned up pretty good.  She sits with Digger on a

fashion-fabric sofa.  They are side-by-side, studying something

with equal concentration.  And slight concern.

PULL BACK to reveal Michael in his wedding tux, submitting to a

final fitting from a stylish fitter.

Michael smiles over.  Digger smiles back.  They live each other.

Michael motions, okay, c'mon over.  Digger rises, goes to Michael,

the fitter steps back as Digger shows him...

Fingers lightly traveling over the lapel, the side-stitching, the

cloth straight down the spine...

Yes? Michael's grin is back.  Playful and friendly.

Julianne loves that the boy are getting on.

Said so naturally.  That embarrasses Michael, who looks down, his

smile suddenly awkward.

Steals a glance at Julianne.  She rolls her eyes.  What a goofball,

my outrageous friend.

Julianne comes over.

She runs her hands over his jacket, smoothing it everywhere.  With

tenderness that approaches transparency.  Glances back at Digger...

Pinches Michael's ear.  Looks in his eyes.

She looks down.  Michael's nails are unclipped, with layers of

impacted dirt.  She touches his fingertips, a little more softly

than she may have intended.

Everyone looks down.  She ZIPS Michael up.

INT.  HAIR SALON - MORNING

Cutting edge salon.  Loud, PULSING MUSIC.  Digger and Michael in

adjacent chairs, heads back, each smoking impressive cigars as

their hair is styled.  Digger's stylist is a hot trashy female.

Michael's is a tall, flamboyant male in a day-glo vest.

Each man has one hand soaking, the other being worked on by a

manicurist, so Julianne goes from one to the other, removing their

cigars so they can exhale.  A seraglio feel to the way she does

this.

Now she's arguing with Michael's stork-like stylist.  We can't hear

over the music, but she keeps tugging on Michael's hair, pretty

passionate about her point of view.  Suddenly, she GRABS the

scissors to do it herself, and Michael...

... BOLTS out of the chair.  WHOA!

EXT.  O'HARA AIRPORT - DAY

Skycaps, guests of impatient travelers, a bus offloading forty

Japanese tourists.  A taxi cuts off a van to reach the curb.  Out

jumps...

Michael.  Opening the door for Digger and Julianne.  Digger says

something, Michael gives him a strong HUG.  Julianne raises one

finger to Michael, back in a second.  Leads Digger off by the hand.

CLOSE on them now.  Alone in the throng.

Digger just stares at her.  Those maddening judgemental eyes.

He touches her hair.

Staring in her eyes.  Even Julianne has run out of words.

Digger isn't smiling.  His voice low, beneath the crowd...

He holds up one finger.  Almost touching her nose.

Wow.  She looks frightened and moved, all at the same time.  She

kisses him on the lips.

And walks away.  He watches her go through the crowd.  Take

Michael's hand.  Lead him back toward the taxi.

EXT.  SKYLINE CRUISE BOAT - DAY

The skyline of Chicago moves past us.  Slowly.  The NBC Tower,

Cityfront Center...

Up ahead, the Wrigley Building draws closer...

REVERSE ANGLE... they lean on the rail of a cruise boat, easing down

the Chicago River.  Wind-blown.  Close together.

They smile at each other.  Seem so comfortable together.

She nods.  That you have.  Staring in her eyes...

And she LURCHES over the railing, emitting a BARRAGE of incredibly

disgusting sounds, her feet FLAILING in mid-air.  He laughs, as he

pulls her back down to the deck.  Of course, it was all a joke.  He

brushes back her hair.  Sighs.  Stares.

He has.

That tightens her throat pretty good.  When she tries to speak, out

comes a dry CROAK that makes him laugh again.  Softer, this time.

He stops.  Her eyes WIDEN in a burlesque of anticipation.  So he

smiles.  She knows how to put him at ease.

Passing under the Michigan Avenue Bridge.  No one knows quite what

to say.

She's smiling so easily.  Who would guess her stomach is double-

knotted.

She watches his surprise.

She holds herself together.  Real soft with...

He's glad to hear that.  And then...

Is this a change of direction? Or is it the direction she's been

praying for.

She nods.  Understands.

We didn't.

Long beat.

Off in distance, the Centennial Fountain SHOOTS an eight-foot JET

of water across the river.  For Michael and Julianne it goes

unnoticed.

Hmm?

All Julianne can do is shrug.  Then...

She doesn't want to cry.  So she puts all the strength she has into

fighting it back.

He stops.  Smiles that sweet, boyish smile.

He holds up his arms.  And she moves into them.  He begins to dance

with her, turning so slowly.  And, yes, people are watching.

She holds him closer.  Bites her lip.

He stops.  He looks at her.  She's still in his arms.

Right to his eyes...

He doesn't know what to do with that.

Just like this.  A long beat.  And he has to say...

Her eyes close.  Then open.  Utterly lost in his.

INT.  WALLACE ENTERPRISES - DAY

Julianne in crisp chalk-stripe trousers and a buttoned-up dress

shirt.  Her coat slung over her shoulder, she wanders through

the Saturday-deserted office space.  Desks, cubicles, monitors,

silent.  A row of executive offices standing empty, waiting for

the custodian.  Turning a corner, we hear...

... life, at the end of the hallway.  A grand conference room with a

glass wall.  Walter, in shirtsleeves, running a strategy meeting

for five.  DEIDRE, his personal secretary, clicking every word into

her laptop at warp speed.  Walter sees Julianne through the glass.

A comic take of pleased surprise.  He comes out to greet her...

Meaning, you.  They smile at each other.  Then...

Julianne thinks back.

He smiles at her line reading.  But his mind is always probing.

Her bright grin.  His eyes linger on it.

INT.  WALTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Julianne enters the spacious corner office, high above the city.

Closes the door, quietly, behind her.  So anxious, she is

practically hyperventilating.  She goes, slowly to the vacant

cherrywood desk.  Its computer and monitor standing silent.  She

is stalking it, like a deadly animal.  And then.  She is there.

Talking to herself, her own desperate support network...

Sacred, filled with doubt and conflict.  Her hands clutch at each

other.  Then, one flicks out.  And the computer goes ON.  The

screen GLOWS.  Waits for her.  Her mouth is sand, her stomach

water.  She pulls the paper from her pocket...

... looks at it.  Looks to the monitor.  And begins.  To type...

And stops.  Her heart is thumping.

Doesn't look easy.  Licks her lips.

She sits.  And recites as she types...

Here we go.  This is it.  Types...

Nods, okay.  Breathing hard.  Types...

Touch, that.  Thinks.  It has to be.  Types...

Almost there.  Almost.  Types...

She stands up.  Stares at the screen.  Walks away.  Walks back.

Still standing, types...

Is there a SOUND?  Outside the door.  She HOVERS over the ESCAPE

key.  Waits.  Waits.  Silence.  Types...

She hits a KEY.  The screen goes BLANK.  The computer asks... DO

YOU WISH TO SEND?  She tells the computer...

Types NO.  The computer asks HOLD FOR LATER? And she types YES.

She glances to her huge bag.  Rummages through, pulling out a manila

folder.  Lays it by the blank computer.  Fans out a few pages in a

natural, disorderly way.  Takes a step back...

And stares.  Struck to her gut.  But when she has done.

INT.  CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Walter alone with Deidre now, signing a stack of documents, as she

efficiently places one after another before him.  When he glances up,

he sees Julianne wandering the halls.  Stands, tells his secretary...

Slips on his coat.  Oh... and by the way...

On his way through the door...

INT.  CHAPEL, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO - DAY

Julianne and Walter enter the rear of a striking Gothic CHAPEL,

pastel light slanting in through stained glass windows.  We now

see the full effect of her outfit, a man's-style chalk stripe SUIT,

tailored to fit her body, set off by a bold silk tie.  Solid

dynamite.  She hangs back, while Walter proceeds down the vaulted

nave toward...

... Michael, Kimmy, Isabelle and Joe, who stand casually joking by

the altar.  Scattered around are assorted groomsmen, ushers, an

obvious flowergirl.  Coming toward us, up the aisle...

... the MINISTER, early 40s, lean and quite attractive.  Mandy is

HANGING on his arm, pressing her body against him as they walk,

murmuring urgent murmurs close to his ear.  He's a really good

sport, and really uncomfortable.  Sammy is walking backwards,

right in front of them, DROPS her bag, and BENDS to retrieve it, as

if oblivious to major cleavage on immediate display.

Julianne is so lost in her own anxiety, she doesn't even notice,

until...

Today, the girls' voices are charmingly musically Southern, with

none of the extreme accents we heard at the shower.  The minister

extends his hand...

She shakes his hand, smiles graciously, but her eyes flick to

Michael, now approaching up the aisle.  The girls lead the minister

away.  Michael arrives.  Looks her up and down.

She smiles.  One that glows a little.

He nods.

Oh, yeah?  Yes, ma'am.  As she loses herself in his eyes...

He pulls the box from his pocket.  Somewhere, an ORGAN sounds.  And

as he is about to hand her the box...

Such exquisite two-part harmony, Michael stops to watch.

It is amazing.  Soulful vengeful sluts.  He is enthralled.  Julianne

simply impatient.  She wants his attention.

She takes the box from his hand.  Opens it, as the singing CONTINUES

throughout.  The ring is delicate hammered gold.  One of a kind.

She's staring at the ring.

His master's voice.  He gives Julianne a smile.  And goes.  She's

left with the box.

Gazes at the ring.  Lifts it out.

Slips it on her left hand.  Ring finger.

Touches it.  Turns it on her finger.  So many emotions.

Tries to pull it off.

It won't come.  Not even close.

INT.  CRAB HOUSE - NIGHT

CLOSE on a bowl filled with squares of butter.  HEAR the butt of

conversation from a rowdy, friendly joint.  Julianne's right hand

REACHES to the bowl, fingers trace the rim innocently, then...

... SLIDE the bowl into Julianne's lap beneath the table.  Her right

hand MASSAGES all the butter into a gooey revolving mess.  We can

pick out familiar voices now, family in distance, the twins closer.

As, hidden from view, Julianne brings...

... her left hand from her pocket.  Yep.  The ring is still there.

The finger already red and swollen from pacicky efforts to pull it

off.  And as APPLAUSE surrounds us, Julianne...

PLUNGES her ring finger into the morass of grease, frantically

TEARING at the ring, butter SPLURGING on her pants, everywhere, as

we PULL BACK to see...

... the long table covered with butcher paper, the family at the far

end, the twins down here with us, a mug of beer for each place, as

team of waiters with heaping platters of CRABS, which they...

... FLING across the butcher paper, as APPLAUSE continues from

everyone but Julianne, who still struggles secretly.  As the waiters

set huge wooden MALLETS in front of each guest, Joe O'Neal rises,

POUNDS the table with his mallet for attention.

He COUGHS, unaccustomed to public speaking.  Walter and Isabelle

clap and call out support.  So Joe lifts his mallet...

And everyone does.  With one exception.  Trapped.  She JAMS her

left hand in her coat pocket, SMEARS her right palm sort of clean

on the underside of the table, GRABS her mallet and JUMPS UP.

Everyone applauses by banging their mallets.  Joe RAISES his high.

Everybody imitates.

And everybody SNATCHES up their beers with their left hands, as

Julianne DROPS her mallet with a HORRIFIC CRASH, grabbing her beer,

looking up to...

A hugely embarrassing half-second.  Bailed out by...

All turns.

With a look at Julianne, Kim sets down her mallet gently, and

performs a nasal HUM of the tropical standard, strikingly her nostril

repeatedly for vibrato.  It is charming, and everybody watches.

INT.  HOTEL BALLROOM - LATER

CLOSE on an actual, living, if geriatric, LION.  He blinks from his

cage, bored as hell.  HEAR the surrounding noise, chatter, LOUD

Sinatra music, of a very large party.  PULL BACK to see...

... and overdecorated BALLROOM, in dim and dramatic lighting,

dripping with the trappings of ANCIENT ROME.  The mingling guests

are the neatly one hundred females of the wedding party, most of

them older women.  They are served by wandering well-built ATHLETES

in Roman togas or gladiator costumes.  PAN TO...

...  Julianne, still in her suit, hiding by a table piled with a

carload of grapes.  Her left hand still buried in her pocket.  The

eyes of a hunted animal.  From nowhere...

She JUMPS a foot, both hands FLYING UP, left one awkwardly slamming

back into its pocket.  The girls have snuck up behind her.  They

have changed into hot gowns that are really only wide ribbons

wrapped around their bodies.

Sinatra singing "Stranger In The Night." Hugely-muscled, half-naked

black and white studs, serving enchanted blue-haired ladies.

Now they stare at her.  With identical, really odd, smiles.

Oh.

Something.  Their expressions are deliciously, identically

expectant.

Some...

Uh-huh...

Julianne blinks.  Ring...?

Ah.  That ring.

Julianne for once is speechless.  To our amazement, the girls wear

identical smiles of kindness and support.

INT.  HOTEL KITCHEN - NIGHT

Huge gleaming chaotic kitchen.  Cooks, waiters, working at top

speed.  The three women RACE in, look around frantically, half the

guys stop to ogle the twins.  CUT TO...

ANGLES... and industrial-sized jar of peanut butter.  Julianne's hand

PLUNGES in, halfway to the rolled-up sleeve at her elbow.  SMOOCHES

it around, real good.  PULL BACK to reveal...

... she is surrounded by the twins and six guys, all SHOUTING

conflicting instructions.  Julianne FLINGS off the excess SLOP.

Tugs for all she's worth...

Nada.  It won't budge.  A sous chef WIPES her hand with a towel, a

janitor CRASHES a tool kit onto the counter.  THROWS it open, pulls

out...

... a spray can of WD-40.  Instantly, her hand is BLACK.  The guy TUGS.

No movement.  He can't believe it.

Sammy is rummaging through her handbag, pulling out...

... a tube of jelly.  The letter K-Y.  Julianne just gives her a look.

Mandy pushes through with a butcher's CLEAVER...

The look has turned toward her.

Everybody turns.  The little girl in the doorway.  Southern accent...

Everything gets real quiet.  Mandy takes charge.  She rolls down

Julianne's left sleeve, RIPS the hem out of the cuff, so that it

flaps down over her hand, covering the ring.  Sammy wipes the black

stuff from Julianne's fingers.

The twins lead her off.  We're on their backs for...

EXT.  DOWNTOWN STREET - NIGHT

VIEW through a heavy glass door of the empty, dimly-lit lobby.

PULL BACK to see Julianne, just as she...

... KICKS the shit out of the glass! Almost breaks her foot.

PULL BACK farther to see Michael still trying keys from a large key

ring in the heavy lock.  Sign over the door says WALLACE ENTERPRISES.

Traffic hustles by, oblivious to her suffering.

And she SLAMS her whole BODY against the glass, making it rattle ominously.

She looks around wildly, hysterical.

A good question.  She needs a good answer.

From his face, that wasn't it.

Apparently.  He's just staring at her.

Now.  He really doesn't get it.

So?

He sighs.

Helpless.

Her eyes fill with tears.  He is mystified.  Smiles tenderly.

Touches her hair.

And slowly, he takes her hand.  Leads her way.  She takes one

backward glance at the locked door.  Her last dream dies.

INT.  LOBBY, RITZ CARLTON - NIGHT

Michael and a disconsolate Julianne board the elevator.  He presses

15, she pushes 11.  Michael carries a handful of messages slips and

an envelope.  As the car starts up, she folds her arms across her

chest, at the edge of tears.  He doesn't know what to do.

He's really concerned, can't bear to see her so upset.

She won't look at him.  She wants to die.  The bell RINGS, the doors

open to her floor.  She just walks out.

And he follows.  They stand now, she with her arms crossed, lip

trembling.  She can't believe how close she is to losing it.

He nods.  Okay.

Her mouth drops.  She can't believe this.

She THROWS her arms around his, HUGGING him so hard, so close.  He

laughs, she is so weird.  She pulls back, beaming, glowing.

She claps his hand.  As they head down the hall...

He's trying to flip through the message slips in his free hand...

She's at her door, turning the key.  He looks at the envelope.

He follows her in, opening the envelope.  Stops.  Reads.  And his face

suddenly... freezes.  To stone.

And he looks up to her.

He hands it toward her.  She takes it, hesitantly, and he walks past.

Toward the phone.

Her eyes BUG OUT of her head.  Holy shit! We can hear him DIALING the

phone.  She keeps reading, it's all there.  How did this happen?

And when she turns...

He looks more sick than angry.  As if the heart has just been cut

out of him.  She doesn't know what to say or do, so she just stands,

staring dumbly.

She nods, stumbles out of her room, closing the door behind her.

Now she's in the empty corridor, clutching her big jumbled bag,

sinking down to sit on the carpet, her back against the door.

She doesn't look elated.  She seems frightened, distraught, and

most of all, confused.  Because she can't understand why.  She digs

absently through her bag.  Cigarettes.  Box of matches.

She lights up.  Draws deeply.  Somehow, she seems near tears, and

laughs bitterly at that.  Shakes her head at how fucked-up she finds

herself.  Squeaking wheels approach, but she is too lost to hear them.

She looks up.  A small, wiry man of nearly 60, in a slightly faded

but neatly-kept uniform.  On his cart, a ton of bags.

And inhales deeply.  Leans back against the door, to look up at him

more comfortably.

That wasn't sarcastic.  He doesn't know what to say.

Another puff.

Waves her hand.

Now she seems angry.  But not at him.  Her eyes fill with tears.

She squints at his nameplate.

And she takes the cigarette from her lips.  Turns it around, holds

it out to him.  Go ahead.  He doesn't move.  Please! And so...

... he reaches down, takes the cigarette from her hand.  Staring in

her eyes, he takes a deep drag.  Savors an expert nostril-inhale of

his exhaled smoke.  Hands the cigarette back to her...

She swallows.  Wipes at her eyes.  Finds a smile.

He just nods.  She waves.  He waves back, pushes his cart down the

hall.  As she watches him go, the door behind her suddenly OPENS,

and she...

... FALLS through it, flat on her back at Michael's feet.  Staring up

at him, seeing that he looks as bad as she feels, she takes raw, deep

drag.

And crouches down.  Close beside her.  The cigarette drops from her

hand, unnoticed on the carpet.  So he lifts it, crushes it on the

heel of his shoe.

She just nods, obediently.  Okay, I will.

He tries to smile.  It's really hard.

He lets the air out.  Slow.  So he won't cry.

Shakes his head.  Can you imagine that?

Julianne nods.  Maybe that part is right.  Maybe it would have

ended anyway.  Maybe she can pretend she's not a monster.

Looks deep in her eyes.  He's so glad she's there.

She holds up her left hand, the flapping sleeve falls away.  The

ring is on a finger that is swollen and raw.

He smiles at that.  A sad smile of friendship.  Then takes her

finger gently...

... into his mouth.  It is something like a kiss.  And when he

removes her moistened finger...

... he pulls the ring OFF.  Nothing to it.  She blinks.

He doesn't understand that.

She nods, sure.  He kisses her cheek.  Stands up.

She nods again.  Whatever you say.  He steps into the open doorway...

They smiles at each other.  For real.

Imagine that.  The look holds.  Just above a whisper...

And then he's gone.

IN.JULIANNE'S BATHROOM - LATE NIGHT

Julianne brushing out her hair in the bathroom mirror, eyeing her

image with evident dissatisfaction, as she listens to the receiver

RINGING.

BEEP.

Her eyes find the pack of cigarettes.  Next to her toiletries kit.

Her fingers touch the pack.  As if an object of significance.  Takes

it up.

Cradling the phone against her shoulder, she carefully tears the top

of the pack completely open.

Reaches the pack toward the toilet.

Turns it upside down, emptying a dozen cigarettes into the john.

Drops the lid with a CLATTER.  Hits the FLUSH.

She lifts a tube from her toiletries kit.  Stares at it, real

close.

Turns it over, reads all the writing.  Yep.

Squeezes some paste onto her brush.  Carefully.

Start brushing.

Squints at her image.  Laughs, spewing a little foam.

She SPITS.  Tells Digger's machine...

Wipes her mouth.  Stares off.  The eyes a little dreamy.

INT.  BEDROOM - MORNING

Julianne sprawled all over the bed, mouth open like a carp,

sleeping mask against the daylight.  A sudden RAPPING at the

door, and she...

... sits BOLT UPRIGHT.  Utterly disoriented, until she pulls off

the mask.  Stumbles out of bed, walking toward the firm KNOCKING,

when...

... it stops.  A message slip SLIDES beneath her door.  She lifts

it, barely conscious.  This wakes her up.  In one.

EXT.  WALLACE ESTATE - DAY

Julianne climbs from her taxi.  Only slightly in awe, she sets off

past the reflecting pool, which fronts a mansion of graceful stone

and timber.  It's a hike today, because the circular drives is

clogged deep with Bentleys, Mercedes, and waiting limos, vying for

space with a score of delivery vehicles of all kinds, maintenance

trucks, catering and florist and food vans.

INT.  GREAT ROOM - DAY

Julianne escorted into an enormous room, where brunch is in

progress for more than a hundred.  She looks from the vaulted

ceilings, to the frescoed walls, the inlaid floors, the massive

pipe organ above the stone staircase, the oil portraits of Scottish

ancestors and their favorite dogs.

Isabelle has risen from the main table, and comes to her.  All

smiles.  Julianne is in the Twilight Zone.  What are these people

laughing about?  Do they still think there's a wedding?

Takes her arm graciously.  This woman would make Anne Bancroft look

coarse.  As they walk...

Julianne looking all around.  Magic day it seems to be.  Where the

bell is a bride or a groom?

Pointing.  THERE she is, obscured by a cluster of the appropriately

fawning.  She has the same hunted eyes and false, slightly manic

smile Julianne wore yesterday.  This, at least, makes sense.

CLOSE on Julianne.  Watching the brave, frightened bride.

EXT.  ROSE GARDEN - DAAY

A steward leads Julianne to the edge of an expansive rose garden,

altogether elegant and comfortable with its long white picnic

tables, where nearly a hundred guests casually dine, served by

rolling carts.

There, at the head table, Michael staring at us.  He looks like a

poor attempt to cover a hard night.  She locks onto his eyes.  What

the hell is going on? He looks helpless, miserable.  She gestures

with her head, follow me.  Stalks off.

EXT.  SCULPTURE GARDEN - DAY

Bronze abstract pieces, some quite large, face a huge set of

children's swings, regulation playground size.  Julianne sits in

one, moving slightly back and forth.  Trying to hold on to her

temper and her sanity.

In the distance, trucks are winding their way to and from the pond,

where crews are setting up tents, lights, heaters for tonight.  The

circus has come to town.  When she looks back...

Michael approaches.  Before he can draw a breath...

She comes OFF the swing, PUSHES him back two feet.

He swallows hard.  Trapped.

He just blinks.

Thank you.  She POKES his chest, punctuating...

INT.  KITCHEN - DAY

A modern take on the Medieval castle kitchen, towering ceilings,

dark wood, copper pots hanging, a series of walk-in coolers and

freezers.  The place is a madhouse of activity, as prep cooks

slice, chop, sort, every kind of food imaginable, and delivery

teams bring more.

The girls walk through.  Alone together in the eye of the

hurricane.  Kim choked with excess sentiment...

Kimmy's lip trembles.  This is not how she thought of her wedding.

The din is so horrific, Kimmy leads them into a walk-in meat

locker.  Even here, two BUTCHERS are dressing Eastern-fresh corn-

fed carcasses.

The men blink at each other.

On that basis.  They leave.  Kimmy sits on a stack of packaged

frozen fowl parts.  Stares up with big, sweet, wet eyes.

Julianne cannot believe this.

Leans in.  Listen...

Stops Julianne cold.  Your fault.

Harder and harder for Julianne to push.  Her mouth is dry.

Fragile and strong at once.  A plea.

A long beat.

EXT.  TENNIS COURT - DAY

The court has become a giant holding pen for tonight's BALLOONS.

There are maybe a billion in assorted colors already blowing in all

directions, under clear plastic sheeting which has ben spread

across the top of the court's chain-link fence.

Michael stands outside the court, clutching the chain link like a

prisoner, as Julianne comes through the gate.  From somewhere, we

hear high, squeaky, alien voice-like SOUNDS.  Incongruous

against...

Julianne absorbs this.  As the bizarre SOUNDS continue, she WHIRLS

around...

We now see three STONER COLLEGE GUYS, who have been filling the

endless array of balloons from helium tanks at center court.

Clearly, they've been inhaling their working materials.

A Nazi salute.  When she turns back...

He absorbs that.  And then...

We watch the struggle inside her.  Her voice drops...

Now tears stand in both their eyes.  The stoners are doing their

Alvin and the Chipmuks impersonation festival in the B.G., singing

in castrato harmony.  But our two don't notice.

Which is...

Julianne swallows.  For obvious reasons.

The stoner are now helium-crooning "Bridge Over Troubled Waters."

Actually, they're getting better.

The stoners blend on the high note.  It's pretty moving.

INT.  ORGAN LOFT - DAY

PAN along a gigantic serpentine stack of wedding presents.  Nearly

twelve feet high, the pile curves along the balcony, high above the

diners in the Great Room, extending al the way to...

... an organ loft.  Alone, above the noise of the party, Julianne

and Kimmy have just reached the top of the staircase.  Trapped

between ten tons of lavish gifts and the keyboard of the mammoth

organ.  Dwarfed by their surroundings, Kimmy draws the hardest

breath of her life...

Julianne's eyes move over the young girl's face.

Kimmy YELPS in her ecstasy, FLINGING herself against Julianne, and

they go DOWN full length across the organ's pedals, BLASTING the

room with a MONSTER CHORD of china-rattling volume and horrifying

disharmony.

As grown men and women SCREAM in spontaneous terror below, Kimmy

begins to...

... LAUGH.  And KISS and hug her new sister.  And holds her tight.

EXT.  WILLOW POND - DAY

Julianne and Michael walk the gravel path beside a breathtaking

POND, ringed with WILLOWS that dig heavy branches to the water's

surface.  He is relieved, reflective.  Head down, he never notices

that she is...

... dangerously freaked.  Too petrified even to hyperventilate,

we're lucky she's breathing at all.  We watch her life unraveling

before her glassy eyes.

They pass an expanse of lawn which has become the event parking

area.  Family vehicles, delivery trucks, service vans.  Everything

that couldn't fit on the circular front driveway.

Searching for the right words.

There's a vague Stepford Wife quality to her voice.  He hears that

now, and looks at her.  Maybe he can't tell she's frightened.  But

he can tell she's something.

She stops walking.  She can't look at him, so she looks around.

Across the lawn crews are moving equipment into the brightly-

colored tents, unfolding and setting up stacks of tables and

chairs, raising the poles between which all those balloons will be

strung.  At the center of it all...

.... a huge topiary White Sox batter, just completing a murderous

swing.  He's maybe fifteen feet tall.  She points to it...

So Julianne nods.  Because she does too.  Squints up at Michael.

He nods, you bet.  Worried for her.  What is this? She looks in

another direction, and we now see that we have nearly reached...

... a stage that's been set up for the band.  Chairs, music stands,

sound equipment.  A gleaming dance floor, already in place over the

lawn.  Next to it, a shimmering white GAZEBO.  Like the centerpiece

of a wedding cake.

She takes his hand.  They walk toward it.

Looking down at her.

Up the white steps now.  Together.  The gazebo floor has been

covered with hardwood.  The perfect place.  For a wedding dance.

And Julianne...

... turns, suddenly.  He almost runs into her.  She is staring up

at him, so strangely, their bodies only inches apart.  He is caught,

transfixed by the intensity in her eyes.

The coronary part does.  We can feel her heart beating from here.

And then, she does.  She puts her hands flat on his chest.  Looks

in his eyes.

A heartbeat passes.

He stares at her, dumbstruck.  She moves even closer.

Holds her breath.  And...

And in a half beat of excruciating silence...

His eyes are loving.  They care for her.  She swallows, lost in

them.

Slides her arms around his neck, and raises her mouth...

... to his.  The most beautiful kiss she will ever offer.  All of

her heart is in this, and as his hands touch her body...

... a SCREAM rips the world to pieces.  They whirl to see...

... KIMMY, halfway up the path.  Her hands across her mouth, as if

to stem the horror that pours forth as she SHRIEKS from her soul,

and...

... runs.  Back Down the path.  Michael BOLTING after her, SHOUTING

her name.  A frozen moment, and...

... Julianne TAKES OFF after him.  All three running, SCREAMING

their various emotions at the top of their lungs, as workmen stop

to watch from neighboring countries.

Kimmy, staring from halfway there, has an insurmountable lead.

LEAPS into her convertible and PEELS OUT, just TEARING up the

gravel as she ROCKETS out of sight.  No way to catch her.  Still...

... Michael is racing for the cars.  Julianne, sprinting her guts

out, losing ground with every stride.  Michael JUMPS into a

Cherokee...

He GRINDS the gears.  She keeps RUNNING.  His engine FIRES.

He BLASTS OFF.  She keeps going.  Gasping for air, clutching her side,

she's dying here.  Slams into a florist's truck, looks inside, shit!

Next, a butcher's van, looks inside, Jesus!

Up ahead, Michael has STALLED the Cherokee.  She still has a chance,

DASHES to the next van.  BORNSTEIN EXTERMINATION, a handsome

rendering of a rat above the TOXIC MATERIALS warning FLINGS the

door open.  Stumbles in.  Keys!

Michael SPEEDS away.  She KICKS the ratmobile in gear.

LURCHES off.

INT.  RATMOBILE, DOWNTOWN CHICAGO - DAY

Julianne tearing through traffic, desperately struggling to keep

Michael's Cherokee in view, while she shrieks into her cellular...

Down the block, Michael WHIPS around a corner.  We follow suit to see

his destination dead ahead.  Union Station.  The DISPATCHER RADIO

intrudes...

Now she's steering the car, tearing at the radio controls, and

screaming into the phone cradled on her shoulder...

Michael RIPS into the train station's parking lot.  We SWERVE

around a taxi, CUT OFF Harley, CAREEN into the lot...

Up ahead, Michael is OUT of his jeep and running.

She SLAMS on the brakes, THROWING herself against the wheel.

She TEARS the door open.  SCRAMBLE OUT...

WITH Julianne now, RACING through the lot, Michael vanishes INTO

the Station, she PLUNGES in after him, BOUNCING off bystanders,

apologizing, lunging on, gasping for breath, past exhaustion,

threatening clumsily through the crowd like a staggering drunk,

catching a lucky glimpse as he heads...

... DOWN a staircase to the TRACKS.  My God, what's he doing?  A

second wind, fueled by panic, and she BOLTS after him, DANCING down

the steep staircase somehow without killing herself, reaching the

concourse to see him, running for...

... Track 29, a train already RUMBLING, ready to pull out, she

SPRINTS after him.

He DISAPPEARS behind the train, she FALLS, skids, springs up,

pushes through gaping onlookers, almost there, the train PULLS

AWAY...

But he's just standing there.  His back to us.  Watching it go.

Her body nearly collapses with relief.  She pushes herself on, but

her legs aren't working right in their maxed-out fatigue, and she

lopes and staggers until she comes up behind him.  He's still lost

in thought, staring after the train.

She tries to speak, but there's no breath.  So she puts her hands

on her knees and just GASPS for air like a dog.  Wheezing, panting,

trying once more to speak, but she can't yet, and then he casually

turns and...

... JUMPS out of his skin!  A heart attack seeing her.

He just blinks at this sweaty, ripped-up, maniacal figure.

FLINGING both her hands across his mouth.  A frozen beat.  He nods,

okay.  Cautiously, she takes her hands away.  At least she has made

him smile, in spite of everything.  At least she's done that.

This.  He's waiting to hear.

You.  WHAT?!  Synapse overload.

She nods her head wildly, hair flopping.

Bigger nodding.

Shakes her head, like a two-year-old.

And watching.  As this begins to sink in.

Staring in his eyes.  Eyes she can't read at this point.

Tears in her own eyes now.  Big ones.

Shaking her head...

No...

And to her amazement.  The trace of a smile...

She blinks at that.  Which squeezes out a tear.

He shrugs.  Just above a whisper...

She's never loved him more.

Okay?

He nods his head, still smiling.  Her tears are running now.  Maybe

she doesn't notice.

She chokes back a sob.

He nods, slowly.  Because he's supposed to.

Ah.  His smile keeps getting smaller.  More loving.  More wonderful.

Good.  She looks around.

For her.  The words leave a silence.

Stares deep in her eyes.  She needs to hear this.

He grins.  Has to admit...

I did.  Now her eyes tear up again.  And she doesn't know why.

What a girl.

Which makes him reach and touch her hair.

Do you?

Tears in his eyes now.  First time.

Does she know that now?  He looks at his watch.

Oh.  That.

He glares at her.

She claps her hands, galvanized by the emergency.

Strange tone.  A gentle warning.

Looks at her own watch.  Shit!

She looks up.

EXT.  TAXI STAND - DAY

Julianne sits on the fender of this guy's taxi.  The driver smokes,

paces, while she waits for a connection on her cellular.  Then...

A shallow laugh...

Julianne's face SNAPS to alert.

Signals the driver, let's GO!

INT.  LUXURY BOX, COMISKEY PARK - AFTERNOON

Game in progress.  Julianne and the bodyguard stand in the doorway

of the deserted skybox.  Everyone Walter knows is going to a

wedding.  The box is empty except for one cardboard container of

nachos, extra cheese, sitting alone before a pulled-back chair.

He sighs.  Feels terrible about all this.

Julianne nods.  Yeah, big break, there.

INT.  WOMEN'S RESTROOM - AFTERNOON

Julianne BURSTS into the enormous chaotic restroom.  Looks around

wildly, no sign of Kim.

Everybody stops.  Pays attention.

Silence.  From the long line of stalls...

Now everybody's really interested.  Julianne ignores them, strides

to the stall.  KNOCKS, like it's a door.  No answer.

Some scattered APPLAUSE.  From down the line...

Oh.  Scattered laughter.  Julianne moves down the line.  Stares at

the door.  We hear the soft, muted crying from within.  Slowly,

Julianne...

... drops to her knees.  Bends her head low.  PEERS under the door.

What she sees, prompts a sad warning...

And she crawls UNDER the door, on her belly.  We go WITH her to

see...

... Kim fully dressed, perched on the closed toilet lid, her knees

drawn up, her arms around them.

And pulls herself up to her knees.  Kimmy tries to glare, but it

just isn't in her.

The world gets real quiet.  An entire bathroom is listening.

Julianne cocks her head to one side.

Irony? Kimmy sniffles.

And leans close.  As Kimmy flinches.

A stunned pole-axed moment.  And Kimmy's eyes SPRING open.  You

mean...?

Everything inside Kimmy BURSTS free in a torrent of tears...

And DISSOLVES, sobbing, into Julianne's arms.  A beat, for Julianne

to reflect, and then she strokes her tenderly.

Kisses the top of Kimmy's head.

Kimmy holds her tight.  From her heart...

ANGLES... outside the stall.  Julianne's feet sticking out under

the door.

The two BURST out of the stall, hand-in-hand, at a desperate DEAD

RUN past us.  HEAR them EXPLODE out the door, and...

... five stalls OPEN.  Women exit, crying.

EXT.  UNIVERSITY CHAPEL - TWILIGHT

A taxi pulls up in front of an ivy-covered CHAPEL, fronted by nearly

a hundred souls, milling about in attitude ranging from overstimulated

curiosity to clinical hyperanxiety.  Our girls JUMP out of the cab,

and half the crowd starts running toward us, twins in the lead...

Kim WAVES at her mom by the chapel entrance.  And takes Julianne's

hand for support.

Everybody nods.

EXT.  DRESSING ROOM - TWILIGHT

White.  Pure blinding white.  Across FRAME floats more white, this

gauzy and ethereal.  It settles, its roots planting deeply in the

bride's hair.  TILTS UP to...

... the face of the woman who placed it there.  Julianne's eyes,

appraising this bride we cannot see.  And so softly...

Don't worry.

The words stronger.  Because there is no smile.

PAN DOWN the white until we are...

CLOSE on the bride's perfect slippers.  HOLD.  And...

INT.  CHAPEL - EVENING

Begins to slowly PAN BACK UP the length of an exquisite gown.  We

can tell from the organ, the nearby thrum of expectant voices, that

we are nearing the moment.  We reach...

... Kimmy's hand.  Firmly clasping Walter's.  Keep PANNING, the

bodice, the lace, her throat, and finally, we are CLOSE on...

... the face of the bride.  Now we understand the word radiant.  We

also understand scared senseless.  Our perfect, unflappable Kimmy

is in a trance of emotional overload where bliss and panic

seamlessly blend.

The organ's noddling stops.  Kimmy's eyes alerted, like a small

animal bearing a predator approach her thicket.  Suddenly, the

CHORD.  The Wedding March from Wagner's Lohengrin.  Here.  Comes.

The bride.  And we SNAP TO...

FULL ANGLE... Kim and Walter.  This is it.

REVERSE ANGLE... Kim's POV, the chapel, every pew packed, every neck

craning this way, the white satin carpet down the endless aisle to

where...

Michael waits.  Also in a zone of pseudo-consciousness.  From which

he attempts a smile.  Not comforting.  Kim's POV WHIP PAN the

groomsmen, the twins, LOCKING FOCUS on Julianne, standing strong

and beautiful, a glow of her own in the daffodil dress.  She sends

her little sister a WINK across the trackless miles of aisle.  You

can do this, kid.  So...

... Kimmy does.  On her father's arm, she walks the gauntlet of the

world's intrusive admiration.  One step at a time.  The most beautiful

she will ever be.  She is dazzling the crowd and managing to not throw

up at the same time.

And she's there.  At his side.  She glances back to her maid of

honor, just to make sure she's not working without a net.  So

Julianne...

... CROSSES her eyes.  Which lets the kid smile and finally take a

breath.  Have a little fun, huh? Kim nods, got it, turns to...

The Minister.  Who stands before them with a calming presence.

Thank God someone has done this before.  The crowd has hushed.

The Minister's eyes are only for two.  His words are for all...

A ripple of laughter.  Gentle and fine.  They are setting in.

A surprise.  A pleasant one.  The crowd adjust in its seats.  As

Michael begins...

And on these words.  We SNAP to Julianne.  Share her interest in

the bluntness, the simplicity, the unorthodoxy of this beginning.

Her eyes.  She's listening.

PANNING now.  Other faces.  Isabelle.  Proud to the bone.

Walter.  His eyes damp.  Against our expectation.

Joe nods, as he hears...

Julianne once more.  No breath.  Rapt.

Her eyes have clouded.  As if Michael is talking to her.

And suddenly, ALL the feeling rises in her throat.

And the tears come.  They come freely, unhidden, unnoticed.  As if

they were needed.

Michael now.  Looking at his bride.

Kimmy smiles at him.  With love bigger than life itself.

He is done.  There is a silence.

People LAUGH.  The Minister holds up a sheet of paper.  For the

crowd to see.  Mostly paragraphs crossed out in red ink.

More laughter.

Bigger LAUGHTER.  The Minister waves this off, his little joke.

Turns to the best man, pantomimes the ring.  As the hammered gold

circle is handed to Michael, Julianne absently scratches her still-

swollen finger.  Mandy taps Julianne on the arm, and produces...

... a matching ring.  Take it! Gives it to her.  So Julianne steps

forward.  Places the second ring into Kimmy's waiting hand.  Their

eyes meet, and hold throughout...

Julianne CLEARS her throat.  Kimmy's heart flutters.  In the

silence... Julianne's wonderful smile.  Just kidding.

Michael reaches for Kim's hand, turns her gently to him.  Places

his ring on her finger.  Holds her hands.

She swallows.  Smiles a fleeting, beautiful smile.  Fumbles

slightly, putting the ring on his finger.

Staring in each other's eyes.  A moment so fragile, the Minister

waits an extra beat.

The Minister joins their right hands.

CLOSE now on Julianne.  For the inevitable moment.

Unnoticed by the world.  Her eyes are close.

The eyes open.  Wet, brave, ready for...

Julianne watching.  As Michael does.

EXT.  WALLACE POND - NIGHT

This is what all the preparation was for.  Tables, lights, balloons,

the guests dancing on the hardwood floor, at the base of the gazebo.

The bride and groom among them, relaxed and happy.  Two who are one.

PAN TO...

... the stage, the band playing.  Julianne conferring with the twins

and the band leader, clear that she's giving the instructions.

Then, she takes her glass of champagne to the microphone...

... KLUNKS it, for silence.  The band stops.  The dancers follow.

All eyes are comfortably turned to the maid of honor.  She looks to

the couple.  Just below her.  Then, to the crowd...

She raises her glass.  Everyone at the table does the same.

Shouts of support, a few whistles.  Silence.  She tells Michael...

She has to stop.  Swallows.  Because she will not let herself cry.

Deep breath.  Looks in his eyes.

A hush.  SHARP applause.  From four hundred hands.  But not from

his.  He is too moved.  Too understanding of what he has heard.

And with that the band begins.  The opening phrases of a song we

have come to know.  Michael seems overwhelmed.  Julianne nods

toward the gazebo...

... Michael takes his bride's hand, leads her up the stairs, into

his arms, as the twins step to the microphone, and guests begin to

applaud an unscheduled wedding dance...

Soft two-part harmony.  As perfect as the words.

Julianne can cry now.  Because she's tied with half the place.

Julianne begins to sing.  Unheard.  Unseen.  Even by the man she's

singing to...

The band keeps playing.  The dance goes on.  Two people lost in each

other.  The way it's supposed to be.

INT.  GREAT ROOM - LATE NIGHT

Bedlam.  Julianne caught in the middle of the throng.  A young

couple, dressed for travel, appear at the top of the staircase.

The SHOUT are deafening.  The bride has her bouquet...

... she spots Julianne far below.  THROWS it her way, Julianne

reflexively GOES FOR IT...

... not a fucking chance.  The twins nearly TRAMPLE her in the

stampede, Mandy WRESTING the prize from Sammy's grasp.  Everyone

CHEERS, and then the couple is...

... FLYING down the stairs, RACING through the crowd with a

protective phalanx of groomsmen bodyguards, heading for the door,

for freedom...

... Julianne, trapped in the crush, loses sight of the couple,

struggles against the flow, suddenly panicked by the certainty

that she will never see him before...

And then, he's THERE.  He has Julianne in his arms.  Holding her

so tight.  An embrace so wonderful, so terrible, she could go mad

from the confusion alone.  Against the din, he murmurs in her

ear...

She sobs.  Holds him.

Deep, deep breath.

And to her surprise...

To her greater surprise.  There are a few tears left, after all.

She just can't speak now.  So she doesn't.

This fucking guy.  God, she loves him.

Just above a whisper...

And with the last of her strength...

A chuckle.  At the other end.

We hear the CLICK.  She turns her back on the stars.  Shoulders

straight.  Chin up.

She walks from frame.

FADE TO BLACK.  HOLD END CREDITS.

--------------------------------------------------------------

