WHITE    9-10-09                                                   5.

Lara puts her foot up and jabs herself with insulin.

Lara returns, trying hard not to smile.

Lara can't keep a straight face and heads to the foyer.

Lara grabs her raincoat and notices a stain on the back

shoulder. Irritated, she heads back to the bathroom.

Lara rinses the stain under the sink, surprised to see it

run red. She looks at her hands: blood. The doorbell rings.

John rises to answer the door.

Lara looks at her coat, wonders how the hell she got blood

on her shoulder. She rubs liquid soap into it.

As John opens the door, DETECTIVE QUINN shows his badge.

DETECTIVE COLLERO and a team of detectives push past. John

has no time to react.

LUKE sees the police rush past him and gets scared.

John hears Luke cry and instinctively heads inside.

Lara steps from the bathroom and is met by Detective Collero.

She sees the coat with the water spot; nods to a team member,

who takes it and bags it under:

She takes her wrist and professionally turns and cuffs her.

The uniform pushes him up against the wall and cuffs his

wrists. John watches as his child cries, his wife is led

out in handcuffs and the house is torn apart. Cut to BLACK.

A light comes on.   John steps out of his bedroom and enters

his son's room.

He comes back out carrying Luke, now SIX YEARS-OLD.

John lays Luke on the bed and climbs in beside him.

Luke nods.

Luke immediately scrambles over his father to take his side.

John kisses Luke, who closes his eyes and snuggles his pillow.

John reaches for the lamp. Beside it sits the framed photo

that Lara snapped of the three of them that fateful morning.

He switches off the lamp, and the screen goes BLACK.

The "T," the city's fast-moving trolley, rises up from

underground and we CRANE UP to see the city.

Tilt down from a passing T-Train to find John and Luke,

walking toward the huge, modern Allegheny County Jail.

- John waits in a long line, mostly women. He glances over

at the pleasant and colorful play area in the corner and

sees children playing. Luke plays by himself.

- John puts his key ring in a plastic container. The guard

takes it and puts the keys with other visitors' belongings.

John guides his son toward the metal detector. Luke walks

through and the buzzer goes off.

John instinctively moves forward to help. A guard stops him

with a hand on his chest. On the other side of the metal

detector another guard runs a wand over Luke, pulls something

from his pocket, looks at it curiously.

The guard runs the wand over the child again; no screech.

The guard waves John through. No beep. John kneels and

pulls on Luke's jacket.

They walk along the hall with all the other visitors.

John stares out the window at the city beyond.    Life seems

so close.

He looks back into the large communal visiting room; a dozen

round tables and plastic chairs. The concrete block walls

are covered with naive paintings in bright colors and messages

of hope. Luke plays at his feet with a basket of Legos.

The door at the far side buzzes, a guard opens it and

prisoners in red jump-suits marked VISITING ROOM enter.

Lara enters and looks around. She is pale, thin and her

hair has returned to its natural color. Lara hurries to him

and gives him a real kiss. She breaks and steps to Luke,

who plays with his back to her.

He gives her a peck on the cheek and goes back to his Legos.

Lara pulls him into a hug; no response. She kisses his head

and sits at the table with John. She squeezes his hand.

He hands her a pack of photos.      Lara devours them.

She smiles but is already traveling toward a dark place.    He

reaches out and holds her tight, stroking her back.

She just stares at Luke, his back to them, playing.

The prisoners file out and are patted down. Lara turns and

blows Luke and John a kiss. They watch with the other

visitors, who all stand on the far side of the room.

Lara and the female inmates pull off their visiting jump-

suits and hand them to a female guard, who searches them for

contraband. Lara retrieves her regular jump-suit and pulls

it on over her underwear. Another small, daily humiliation.

Start VERY CLOSE ON JOHN'S DIGITAL WATCH. Widen to see Luke

standing on a low step at the sink in his pajamas using a

complicated-looking electric toothbrush. John sits on the

toilet, staring at his watch.

Luke puts it down and checks his teeth in the mirror.

Luke nods.

The garage door opens; the Prius has a lot more miles on it.

John backs out, Luke in his child seat. He brakes and finds

PAULA, the woman who lives behind them, at his window.

She holds up a plastic water bottle.

John drives off, wondering what kind of world he lives in.

Sitting on the park bench, John allows his feelings to wash

over his face. He watches Luke play with a girl his age.

Luke runs to him. John pulls Luke's jacket on. He doesn't

notice the young mother on the next bench, NICOLE, watching

him admiringly. She calls to the girl Luke was playing with.

John glances in time to see CARRIE plop down in the sand,

arms folded. He shares a sympathetic smile with Nicole, who

heads to retrieve her daughter. John walks off with Luke.

John waits as a courtroom lets out. MEYER FISK steps out

with a young associate. He spots John and approaches.

Meyer relents, turns and calls to his associate.

She kneels and digs through her rolling briefcase.

John sits on a bench, pale and shaken, flipping through the

ruling. The courtroom is empty, save a bailiff eating at

his desk. During this he gets up and walks out past them.

John offers a smile at Meyer's unlawyer-like choice of words.

John looks at Meyer anew, feeling profoundly betrayed.

John is long gone.    Meyer hurls his sandwich into the trash.

John waits alone on the visitors' side of the glass. The

door opens, and Lara steps up on the other side. John smiles

and picks up the phone, but Lara sees something in his face

and doesn't pick up her phone, just stares at him.

John fights to keep his smile and nods for her to pick up

her phone -- but now she can see the verdict chiseled on his

face. Lara gasps and cries inconsolably.

John keeps the smile plastered on his face, but now tears

run down his cheeks. He taps on the glass and points at her

phone, but she doesn't respond. He taps harder and harder --

desperately wanting to comfort her, but she won't allow it.

He bangs on the glass with his fist, drawing the attention

of the guard on his side.

Lara turns and exits. John stands and yells her name, but

she can't hear it, and neither can we.

We're in an old working class neighborhood.    John sits in

his car, trying to pull himself together.

MICK opens the door. GRACE, their mother, looks up from

clearing the lunch dishes. John's face tells them everything

they need to know. Mick slams his fist against the door.

In the back yard with Luke, GEORGE, John's father turns to

see Grace tearfully embrace John. George looks away,

uncomfortable, and distracts Luke's attention.

John, Mick and Grace sit in the worn wicker chairs on the

back porch. Erit steps out with beers to replace their

empties. She sits and they stare off, watching Luke and

George play with the dog. After a moment Erit looks to John:

She stares unbelieving, then walks off in a huff.

John has to smile.

John drives through a rough part of town on their way home.

He stops at a light and notes the dealers on the corner. A

flashy car pulls up, hands are slapped; call the driver DAVID.

He takes a roll of cash from the dealer, looks around, catches

John staring. John looks away quickly and drives off.

John sits at his desk, surrounded by boxes of documents and

photographs. As John sifts through the evidence...

Lara and her boss ELIZABETH argue loudly.

It's RAINING outside. ELIZABETH stands at her car door in a

small, partially covered garage -- maybe a dozen spots. She

turns toward camera --

A FIRE EXTINGUISHER comes right at camera, making a terrible

impact and

ELIZABETH collapses to the floor.

Lara turns, holding the fire extinguisher.

As he flips through a handwritten witness statement.

Lara's car speeds out of the parking lot. A male co-worker

steps out of the rain just as her car passes. He stops as

he sees ELIZABETH'S BODY lying beside her car.

Lara tries to scrub the blood off of her coat.

The phone beside him SHRIEKS.   John picks it up.

It's late; prime time for the ER.    John runs in.

John enters breathlessly and finds the Nurses' Station.

John turns away and heads down the corridor to find her

himself. The Duty Nurse sees this and takes off after him:

John shoves open a door, moves on to the next.

A long-haired doctor, BECSEY, steps into his path.

Becsey is not unmoved.       He shares a look with the nurse.

DR. Becsey opens the door for John.          Note a prison guard

standing outside.

Becsey leaves. A uniformed female prison guard looks up

from her magazine and keeps her eyes on John. He looks to

his wife, who's attached to an I.V. and monitors, pale and

weak, her arm bandaged where she cut it open along the artery.

Lara opens her heavy eyelids and John glimpses something

terrible in her eyes: she's tortured to be alive. He kneels

beside her and puts a hand on the bed. She takes his little

finger, wraps her fingers around it.

John opens the door to let Jenna out; she looks considerably

older.

She offers a sad smile and leaves without the cash.

Luke lies in the crook of his father's arm, his own arms

full of penguins, turtles, a black dog and an opossum. John

reads him a letter, the yellow envelope open on the bed.

Luke points at the glass coin dish on night stand.

He hands Luke the jar, and hoists up him and his animals.

Luke sets the coin jar on his nightstand. John tucks him in

with his animals, then switches off the lamp. John looks

back before closing it and watches Luke lie awake, staring

at the jar, lost in confused thoughts of his mother.

Dirty dishes piled in the sink, John unloads the dishwasher.

He finds the handle has cracked off Luke's favorite mug. He

places the cup and handle on the counter, opens a drawer

crammed with tools and screws and tape and such. He rummages

through it. Not finding what he is looking for, he pulls

handfuls of junk out of the drawer and slams it all down on

the counter. The harder he searches the more he becomes

frustrated, until he slams the drawer and leans on the

counter, feeling destroyed and needy.

And then a female hand appears beside him, opens another

drawer and reaches in. John stares at the hand, afraid to

move, afraid to look up. The hand finds a tube of glue,

places it on the counter and moves away.

John turns to see LARA walking away. She turns, smiling and

shaking her head, and disappears into the dining room.

Stunned, John looks down at the glue on the counter, then

suddenly pushes away and rushes into the dining room. No

sign of her. And she isn't in the living room. He bolts

into the foyer and finds the front door slightly ajar. He

flings it open...

John rushes out into the street, looking up and down for her --

finally realizing she was never there.

He stands in the middle of the street, now searching for some

way to survive.

Don Quixote is written on the chalkboard.

No takers.

John drops an armload of books into a library cart, each

having something to do with prison or prison life.

He sits at a table at the back, flipping through them one at

a time and discards each in turn.

As the shadows grow longer we find him staring at the computer

screen linked to the school system.

ON THE SCREEN: a book summary disappears, to be replaced by

the school search engine -- many of the items have already

been inspected. John finds one that reads "Over The Walls."

He clicks on the link and the title page appears. The author

is DAMON PENNINGTON. There's a photo of him. The caption

reads that he LIVES IN BROOKLYN, NY.

John gets out of a cab and heads into a local dive bar.

A couple of guys at the bar yell at the dog race on the TV

screen. DAMON hands John a beer and nods toward a table.

Damon lights a cigarette.       A TOUGH GUY nearby objects.

Damon takes a deep drag.

John sets up the small digital recorder.

The tape recorder plays Damon's voice; John tears large sheets

of art paper from a pad and tacks them to his bedroom wall.

He starts to write on the paper with a large felt marker.

That came out too quickly. Damon now understands. John

sits, silent, knowing he blew it. Damon takes his time.

The art paper bunches and rips under the pressure of the

marker. John tears it off the wall.

John draws a circle on the wall and writes in it: 15 MINUTES --

-- Surrounds it by a larger circle: 35 MINUTES.

He draws spokes out from the circles.

John writes DESCRIPTION at the end of one spoke.

John scribbles key words on the wall.     DISTANT AIRPORT.

John writes "IDENTITIES."

John writes furiously on the wall.    "DESTINATION."

John's writes "MONEY."

John underlines "MONEY."

John is starting to understand the enormity of this

undertaking.

John backs away from the wall to see it covered in a spiderweb

of notes.

John opens his billfold.   Damon takes the cash, leaves him a

twenty.

On the wall we see the massive diagram John has created.

The screen goes BLACK. Read:

The train crosses a bridge.

John rides, looking down at the river below.

John steps through the puffer (the machine that detects drugs)

and into the secure area. He makes a mental note of

everything he sees: the number of guards, cameras, etc.

John sits in his car on the road above, surreptitiously taking

pictures of the vehicles coming and going from the prison.

He tapes the photos to the wall.

Walking down a corridor with the other visitors, John steps

in a puddle of water. Behind him the others notice and step

around it. Moving on, they pass a trustee on a ladder pulling

a water-stained ceiling tile away as two guards watch.

John traces a route on a map with a highlighter.

The wall grows thick with photos and notes.

He reads an article on his computer -- about illegal aliens

and fake ID's.

John enters his bedroom and closes the door. We see how

dramatically his plan has evolved on the wall as every inch

is covered in notes, photos, maps, and various writings. He

studies it as he bites into a sandwich.

John and Luke walk near the front of the group of visitors

toward the visitation rooms.

Just ahead he notices a guard using a key to call the

elevator. John stops near the elevator and kneels, pulling

one of Luke's shoelaces loose.

John reties the lace as the group moves on.    He keeps one

eye on the elevator.

The door opens and the guard   steps in - and John notices two

WORKMEN in hardhats inside.    The elevator closes, the shoelace

is tied, the group has moved   on down the hall and they are

alone. John pulls the laces    and unties Luke's shoe.

The guard looks back, now impatient. John offers a smile

and throws a look down at the elevator tread, sees the name:

OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY. Suddenly a voice comes from behind:

Startled, John turns to see DR. LIFSON.

John leaves Luke playing and steps into the office. Lifson

partially closes the door, so John can still see his son.

John and Luke wait. The prisoners enter.      Lara looks

terrible. John stands and embraces her.

Lara smiles to cover and bends down and kisses her son, who

is engrossed in his toys as usual.

He doesn't respond. She kisses him on the head then takes a

seat. John sits beside her. They speak in whispers.

He looks down, beaten.      She lets go of her anger.

John looks at his son, playing at a distance, his back to

them. It's hard to argue with her, she's right.

John smiles, but like hers it may be the saddest smile in

the world. They sit and watch Luke play.

John checks his bank statements and adds them up on the wall

under MONEY. The total is $8,840.00.

He stares at that figure for a moment.

EUGENIE, the REAL ESTATE AGENT, walks John to the door.

A STUDENT shows John how to use Photoshop to enlarge and

crop a photo.

John uses Photoshop, looking through family pictures for an

appropriate one to use for Lara's ID. Some of them are of

the family at a cottage. He finds one that will work and

starts to crop himself and Luke (as a baby) out of the photo.

Then he turns and notices Luke standing behind him, staring

at the screen.

A helicopter swoops over a bridge and traces the Monongahela

River through the city. On the door of the helicopter is

emblazoned the name of a local tour company.

John sits among six other passengers.

Everyone else looks to the right as the pilot continues.

John stays fixed on the left window.

HIS POINT OF VIEW:

The massive rooftops of the jail. But then he sees exactly

what he is looking for: workmen wearing yellow helmets spread

hot tar and roofing paper. He spots a workman carrying a

bucket heading around a tall outcropping on the roof.

