He said it to cheer her up.   Sam forces a smile and leaves.

Mary Elizabeth approaches Charlie on the antique sofa. She

uncorks a bottle of wine. POP! She hands him the bottle.

Mary Elizabeth walks over to the vintage turntable. She

turns on the gas fireplace with a remote control. Roar!

Mary Elizabeth drops the needle on a vinyl LP. A Doo Wop

make-out classic begins to play. She dances over to Charlie.

She pours the wine.   Charlie looks at the bottle.

Mary Elizabeth drops her necklace with a thud.   Charlie looks

around. Heart beating.

She reaches out and touches his chest.

She puts her hand on his.   Moves it to his chest.

She slowly moves his hand to her dress strap. It falls off

her shoulder. She leans in for a red wine kiss. She guides

his hand over her bra. He feels her breast. Wow.

For a quick moment, Charlie imagines he is kissing Sam.

Broken by...

Mary Elizabeth moves his hand away. Charlie blinks, taking a

moment to realize Sam's not the one in the room. The song is

over. The needle turns at the end of the record.

She gives him one last kiss.      Content, she lays down on his

lap. Peaceful.

We land on Charlie's face.       "What?"   And then, we hear the

GARAGE DOOR OPEN.

The mad scramble for clothes begins.

Mary Elizabeth's car pulls in front of Charlie's house.

Charlie gets out. Wanting to say he's not her boyfriend.

Not knowing how. Mary Elizabeth smiles. Smitten.

With that, she backs out of the driveway. We see him from

the back of her car, getting smaller and smaller. His

stomach already filling with acid.

Sam, Patrick, and Alice are seated around the table. Mary

Elizabeth has her arms around Charlie. Smothering him.

Charlie nods, tortured.

Ash Wednesday. Charlie gets out of the school bus to

immediately find Mary Elizabeth waiting for him. She sees

the cross of ashes on his forehead. She thinks his ashes are

a smudge. She cleans it.

A double date. Craig and Sam buy the tickets to see the

silent classic, The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari.

Charlie tries not to feel Mary Elizabeth's sweaty hand.

Just like Sadie's except... the fire in the fireplace is out.

We move from the fireplace to Charlie, touching Mary

Elizabeth's breasts over her sweater.

Charlie looks at the Ani DiFranco Mix on the stereo.   Sighs.

The gang is there.   Walden rests on Charlie's lunch tray.

Ring! Charlie grabs the cordless. He looks at Patrick's

clock. 3:13pm. His voice can no longer hide his quiet rage.

Charlie calmly puts down the phone and leaves the room.   We

Charlie is so miserable.   His mom is sympathetic.

Charlie's father leans back from the sofa and his newspaper.

He returns.   Mary Elizabeth is still talking on the cordless.

He looks back at the clock.   3:23pm.

Charlie goes to his quiet place.   Tick.   Tick.    Tick.

Truth or dare. The gang is seated in a circle, drinking from

plastic cups. Charlie sits between Mary Elizabeth and Sam.

Charlie blinks.   It was all fantasy.

Alice hits him. Laughter. Charlie thinks. He looks at Mary

Elizabeth, then turns to Sam. Before Sam can even react...

Charlie plants a kiss right on her lips. When he opens his

eyes, he looks around, and realizes the magnitude of his

mistake. Everyone stares. After a horrible silence...

Without a word, Mary Elizabeth just stands, dignified, and

goes into the kitchen.

Alice follows Mary Elizabeth.    Sam is close behind.

Sam turns and looks at him.    She doesn't even recognize him.

Charlie is devastated.

They move to the driveway.     Charlie feels awful.   Panicky.

Silence. Charlie looks over at Patrick, who wears a grave

expression. It's going to be a long time. We hear the sound

of the typewriter.

Charlie sits at his desk. It looks like he's barely slept.

He begins typing. The keys up close and loud. Clak.

CLOSE UP TYPING: "Dear friend, I have not seen my friends for

2 weeks now. I am starting to get bad again."

Charlie stares at the typewriter.    And remembers.

Little Charlie pops his head around the corner from the

hallway. He looks at something we can't see yet.

Present.   Knock.   Knock.   Charlie's mom opens the door.

Charlie forces a smile, then looks back at the typewriter.

And tries to shake off the memory.

Little Charlie looks at Aunt Helen as she smokes her

cigarette and sobs.

Charlie is lost. His family sits in the pews for Easter

Mass. Charlie watches the PRIEST recite the Lord's prayer.

7 year old Charlie watches the PRIEST recite the Lord's

prayer. He looks at Aunt Helen's picture on the coffin.

16 year old Charlie looks haunted by the memory.

The voices drift away and all Charlie can see is...

7 year old Charlie takes Aunt Helen's hand to make her stop

crying.

16 year old Charlie blinks as the voices come back.

Charlie on the phone.     His voice wavers a bit.     Desperate.

Dial tone.    Charlie hangs up the phone.

Charlie is terribly anxious.   He watches Bob groom some pot.

As kids open lockers and move to morning period, Charlie

stares at Brad. He has a black eye and cuts on his face. He

look like he was beaten up badly. Students whisper gossip.

Brad moves into the arms of CHARLOTTE (18), cheerleader cute.

As Brad kisses her, Charlie sees Patrick down the hall,

watching them. Patrick closes his locker. Hurting.

Patrick storms off.

Charlie sits at his table, alone. He watches Patrick leave

the lunch line, passing a chorus of...

Charlie's confused until he sees the Linebacker holding his

broken, bloody nose. He's looking at Charlie...

Terrified.

The image pans over. The Nose Tackle is on the ground.

Charlie stands over them. He is disconnected. It's an out

of body experience. He reaches out and helps Patrick to his

feet. Then, he calmly turns and stares right through Brad.

Brad is stunned.     So is everyone... except Sam.

Charlie sits in the waiting room of the principal's office.

He looks through the glass where Principal Small talks to

Brad. After a beat, she pats Brad's shoulder and opens the

door. Leaving Charlie and Brad alone in the waiting room.

Just as Brad is about to leave...

Brad doesn't look at him.     He just moves on.

Charlie exits the building. Kids stare at him. Then, look

away. Charlie feels very lost until he sees... Sam. She

smiles. It brings him back instantly. And then, gently...

Sam can see he's afraid of himself.      She nods, sympathetic.

The minute she hugs him, the numb goes away. She kisses the

top of his head and puts her arm around his shoulder. They

begin walking away.

Mary Elizabeth looks at us because she wants us to know...

She motions to PETER.    College.   Glasses.   Good looking-ish.

Mary Elizabeth joins Peter.    Charlie looks at his friends.

that says, "They forget. I don't." After a beat, Patrick

comes downstairs. He looks sad with his bruises.

As Craig moves upstairs, Patrick approaches Charlie.

Patrick drives Sam's truck up the hill to the overlook.

Charlie and Patrick walk the lighted path, howling at the

moon. Patrick holds a thermos, filled with who knows what.

More laughter.   They arrive at the lookout.   They drink.

Charlie holds his friend as Patrick begins to cry. And we

leave them, the city lights small in the distance.

We see the truck glide down the highway.

Patrick and Charlie are parked at the entrance of Schenley

Park. Patrick speaks, very animated, until...

... the words leave him, and we can see how sad he really is.

Patrick hands Sam an envelope.   Sam holds it.   Pins and

needles.

Sam opens the letter. She reads. Tears instantly well up in

her eyes. She leaves the room and walks down the hall.

Patrick picks up the letter.

Charlie turns back to Sam.   She holds him with sweet relief

and redemption.

Charlie laughs with his friends in the cafeteria.

Charlie and a group of students stand, looking up at the

wall, which is covered with...

... All The Shop Tools Painted Pink

The shop teacher, Mr. Callahan stares at the wall, furious.

As the students gawk, Charlie smiles to himself.

Sam and the girls chat excitedly.   Summer is almost here.

Charlie sits on his bed, finishing the letter.

Charlie puts down the letter.

The kids pass their copies of The Great Gatsby up to the

front, where Bill collects them for next year's freshmen.

The class is buzzing loud.

The class quiets down.

Charlie looks to see if anyone is watching... then, decides

to raise his hand anyway. Bill is proud.

Charlie looks at the Smart Ass Freshman who tormented him all

year. She sighs. Nothing left to say to him.

The last kids exit the classroom. Charlie walks down the

aisle and stands in front of Bill.

Charlie is relieved.    Bill is staying.

Charlie is quiet.   Then...

He gives Bill a shy sideways hug. The two men say nothing

else. Charlie waves and leaves. Bill smiles to himself.

Times Square has nothing on these seniors. Charlie watches

the gang on their last day of high school. When the clock

hits 10 seconds to 3pm, all the students chant...

They all cheer and hug each other. Patrick loses his mind

with joy and charges down the hallway.

A brilliant sunset. We see the gang. In silhouette.

Running up the bleachers after the sun.

Prom night. Charlie sees Candace posing for Dad's camera.

For a moment, we think Candace went to prom with Derek.

As mom and dad move out of the way, we realize Candace is

standing with her 3 best girlfriends. They look beautiful.

Prom night continues. The antique limo is so garish, it's

great. Charlie snaps pictures with Sam's mom and Patrick's

dad. Mary Elizabeth is with her boyfriend, Peter. Alice

stands with Patrick, dashing in his Mod Suit Tux.

The image moves to the front of the house, where Sam emerges.

She wears a vintage flapper dress from the 20's. Radiant.

Sam joins Craig. They kiss for the cameras, then run with

the rest of the gang to the limosine.

The gang poses for more pictures in front of the limo.

Graduation Day. The place is packed with graduating seniors

and families. Charlie's mom and dad fawn over Candace with

the video camera. Charlie finally finds... Sam.

They approach each other and hug.

The kids line up for the picture they will always remember.

Patrick bows to reveal the top of his cap reads, "Nothing

Hates You." The parents line up cameras. "Cheese!" Snap.

The grandfather clock reads 9:30pm. The room is festive

under streamers wishing Sam luck at Penn State. The kids

sign each other's yearbooks. Charlie sees Sam smile at old

photos. He misses her already.

10:28pm. Charlie doesn't know where the time keeps going.

Sam opens goodbye presents from her friends.

Charlie watches Sam pick up his present. She carefully peels

the tape to reveal that Charlie gave her all of his books.

He nods.   They lock eyes and do not speak.

The pictures are down. The dressers empty. The suitcase is

open on the bed. Charlie watches Sam fold clothes and put

them in her suitcase. He has promised himself he will not

cry. Even when she packs away his Beatles 45 of "Something."

Instead, he looks at her and tries to remember every detail.

Her hair and brown eyes and sound of her voice.

Sam moves some suitcases over to the pile in the room.   They

stand next to each other. Close.

He says it sober. Without judgement. Sam lets it sink in.

Charlie walks over to the bed to do more packing. Then, she

turns to him.

It's like a dream for Charlie. He watches Sam hug Alice and

Mary Elizabeth goodbye. But Charlie is somewhere else.

Charlie can't take it. He moves to the side of the truck and

puts in the last suitcase. He looks over at Sam.

QUICK FLASH... Charlie remembers kissing Sam the night

before. Her hand touches Charlie's knee.

Charlie snaps himself out of it. He turns back as Mary

Elizabeth and Alice part ways. Charlie locks eyes with Sam.

They take a moment. And then they come together to hug. She

kisses him goodbye, trying not to cry.

After a moment, Sam climbs into the driver's seat of her

truck with Patrick riding shotgun. Charlie looks dazed.

QUICK FLASH... Charlie remembers pulling away from Sam.

Shocked. Like he's seen a ghost.

Sam starts the truck. Charlie wants to scream for her to

stop. But he's frozen. She drives away. He watches her go.

The truck gets smaller in the distance until it turns at the

stop sign. And disappears. Charlie stands there, alone.

QUICK FLASH... Charlie remembers the night with Sam. We see

her put her hand on his knee. The image moves up the arm.

To the shoulder. To the face. And we reveal, we are not in

Sam's bedroom. And it is not Sam touching Charlie. But...

Aunt Helen

The memory only registers as a small blink of his eye.

Charlie sees his friends are crying. He's not. He's numb.

Charlie walks down the street. His eyes far away. The

images and memories are short, violent bursts. If you've

never had an anxiety attack, this is how it feels.

QUICK FLASH. It's Christmas Eve.       Aunt Helen smiles to

Little Charlie.

Little Charlie nods.

BACK TO PRESENT. Charlie walks toward us on the sidewalk.

We see him through a long lens. His image fractures. We see

him in different planes of the image. He's beginning to

break apart. One image. Two images.

QUICK FLASH. Little Candace is asleep on the floor.     Aunt

Helen sits next to Little Charlie on the sofa.

BACK TO PRESENT. We see Charlie fracturing. The pieces

scattered. Out of focus. Lost. He's all over the frame.

QUICK FLASH.   Aunt Helen points to Little Candace.

BACK TO PRESENT.   Charlie enters his house.

QUICK FLASH.   Aunt Helen gets hit by the semi-truck.

QUICK FLASH.   Little Charlie's mom opens the door to reveal a

policeman.

BACK TO PRESENT. Charlie is in the same entry hall in the

same house 8 years later. Banging his head against the wall.

"It's my fault. It's all my fault."

He passes the photo wall on the stairs. We see the images of

the family. Church. Communion. Baby pictures. Years of

history staring at us. Ghosts on the wall.

BACK TO PRESENT. Charlie sits at his desk. We see him from

behind. Perfectly still. Trying to keep himself calm.

QUICK FLASH. Charlie thinks everyone is staring at him. His

sister and her friends. His brother and mother. Mary

Elizabeth and Alice. And worst of all... Sam and Patrick the

night they toasted him. A paranoid nightmare.

BACK TO PRESENT.   Charlie's falling to pieces.   The tears run

down his face.

QUICK FLASH. Derek hits Candace.   Patrick hits Brad.    The

cafeteria erupts into violence.

And Charlie remembers what he's blacked out.

We see him in the cafeteria. Terrifying. He thinks he sees

Aunt Helen as he breaks the Linebacker's nose. Hits another

in the throat. And pushes another. Charlie looks at his

hand, covered in blood. The whole school staring at him.

BACK TO PRESENT. Charlie holds his head. Trying to stuff

the pictures back in his brain. But he can't. They keep

coming and coming, faster and faster. Sam's hand, Little

Charlie on top of the stairs, the police telling him Aunt

Helen is dead.

We go behind his head. The image moves closer and closer.

Until it feels like we are inside Charlie's mind.

We see Candace hanging out with her girlfriends at a friend's

backyard pool. Her FRIEND (18, pretty) holds the cordless.

Candace casually picks up the phone.

Candace looks like she got hit with ice water. She knows her

brother. She knows this voice. Candace covers the phone.

Dial tone.

We begin in the house. It's silent. The hallway. The entry

hall. The empty bedroom. Charlie's typewriter on his desk.

It's all so quiet. And then, we see Charlie walking down the

hallway. He turns the corner and enters the...

Kitchen.   One room. Charlie doesn't know where he is

anymore.   The past and present have bled together.

QUICK FLASH. We see Little Charlie turn the corner into the

kitchen. BACK TO PRESENT as 16 year old Charlie stands in

the same kitchen, breathing shallow.

QUICK FLASH. 7 year old Charlie walks up to Aunt Helen

sitting at the kitchen table. BACK TO PRESENT as 16 year old

Charlie begins to have a full blown anxiety attack.

QUICK FLASH. 7 year old Charlie takes Aunt Helen's hand and

turns it over... to reveal her wrist scars.

BACK TO PRESENT as Charlie looks from the table to the

counter with the bread and the KNIVES. He stares at the

knives for a moment. Just as...

The Policemen break down the door.

We see Charlie's reflection in the window. The door opens

slowly, and his psychiatrist, Dr. Burton, enters. She finds

him sitting in the corner. He has been crying.

This news hits Charlie hard.   He begins to panic.

Charlie looks at her, nodding her encouragement.

The minute he says one word of truth, he feels ashamed. He

stops talking. Dr. Burton does not press him. Not today.

Charlie cries and nods.

We move away from them as Charlie's voice trails off.

The sun creeps through the windows. We can hear birds

outside. The intercom is quiet. Charlie is alone. He looks

at Sam's typewriter. "Dear Friend" is already typed.

Charlie picks up a get well card from Sam.

Dr. Burton walks Charlie's parents down the hallway.

In the distance, we see Charlie's mom and dad stop.    Shocked.

Charlie looks up and sees his mom and dad in the doorway.

His mother comes to hold him.

For a second, we see the emotion his father hides behind the

sports page, before he chokes it down. He walks over to his

son and kisses his forehead.

Charlie, Chris, and Candace sit on the bed, playing cards.

Charlie leaves his room with his suitcase in hand.    His

mother waits in the hallway with Dr. Burton.

Charlie nods and leaves the hospital with his mother.

Dr. Burton smiles, then turns back into the hospital.

The family sits at the dinner table.

After they say "Amen," the room falls silent. The family is

on pins and needles. No one touches their food. Until...

As things return to normal, dad picks up his paper. Candace

talks about the books she'll need for college. Everyone

starts eating. And Charlie smiles, happy to just be home.

Ding dong.    The door opens to reveal Patrick, smiling.

Charlie's mother smiles. Charlie smiles, too. Especially

when he sees... Sam. Standing next to Patrick. Her hair a

little different. Her eyes alive and happy.

The gang of three sit at their booth. Sam and Patrick have

their coffee. Charlie has his brownie. Like always.

Charlie laughs.   Sam smiles.   After a beat...

Sam puts a cassette tape down on the table.

Charlie looks at Sam and Patrick, who smile.

The three leave the restaurant and jump into Sam's truck.

Patrick drives. Charlie in the middle. Sam the passenger.

The three friends are flying down the highway in Sam's truck.

The music blaring. The wind making their hair dance.

With Sam's help, Charlie climbs through the little window

Charlie gets into the back of the truck. He sits down,

looking back at the highway. Watching everywhere he's been.

We see Charlie in profile.   The night sky behind him until...

... they enter the tunnel, and we realize just how fast

they're driving. The white tiles of the tunnel whiz by at

blinding speed. A perfect night. A perfect drive. Flying.

Charlie turns to face forward. To the moment.   To Sam,

smiling at him from the front seat.

Sam kisses Charlie. Then, she turns, and all three kids look

ahead to everything in front of them. Charlie begins to

stand in the back of the truck. Ready to leave the tunnel.

Charlie stands in the back of the truck.   The wind on his

face. He is free.

