<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

The Piano Lesson

(c) copyright:

Jan Chapman Productions Pty Ltd

2 Fairlight Street Leichhart 2040

NSW Australia

4th draft 1991

Developed with the assistance of

The Australian Film Commission

Sc 1                                                  Sc 1

Sc 2     EXT     SCOTTISH FIELD NEAR HOUSEDAY     Sc 2

A woman in a dark crepe Victorian dress sits leaning against a tree,

her hands cover her face, around her neck she wears a writing pad. She

crosses a field with large bare trees, in the far background stands a

3 storey stone house.

Sc 3     INT     SCOTTISH HOUSE CORRIDOR     DAY     Sc 3

A small girl roller skates down a dimly lit corridor. A parlour maid

looks down the hall where the girl has disappeared.

Sc 4     INT     SCOTTISH HOUSE DRAWING ROOMDAY     Sc 4

Three men wearing long grey aprons are fitting the packing for a

piano. On one of the men's arms is a tattoo of a whale in a wild sea.

Sc 5     EXT     SCOTTISH HOUSE GROUNDS     DAY     Sc 5

The girl wearing her skates sits on a small black pony. An old man is

pulling it, but it won't move. (In the background, another aspect of

the grey stone house.)

Sc 6     INT     SCOTTISH HOUSE FLORA'S BEDROOM NIGHTSc 6

The woman lifts back the sheets from the bottom of the sleeping girl's

bed. She is still wearing her skates. The woman cuts through the laces

and removes the boots. One disembodied skate rolls across the room.

Sc 7     INT     SCOTTISH HOUSE DRAWING ROOMNIGHT     Sc 7

The woman stands at a window lit by moonlight. Her skin appears

luminescently white. She touches the wooden window frame, the curtain,

the objects on the window sill, her mind abstracted, her hands

unconsciously performing a farewell. Turning from the window she moves

to a square piano crowded by packing boxes. In the dim light she

begins to play strongly. Her face strains, she is utterly involved,

unaware other own strange guttural sounds that form an eerie

accompaniment to the music.

An old maid in night-dress looks in. Abruptly the woman stops playing.

The emotion leaves her face, it whitens and seems solid like a wall.

Sc 8     EXT     UNDERWATER BEACH          DAY     Sc 8

Under water a long boat passes overhead, its oars breaking the

surface.

Sc 9     EXT     BEACH                    DAY     Sc 9

Amidst a riotous sea a woman, ADA, is carried to shore on the

shoulders of five seamen. Her large Victorian skirt spreads across the

men's arms and backs, on her head a black bonnet, around her neck her

pad and pen. We should be forgiven if this woman seems a sacrificial

offering as the bay they carry her to is completely uninhabited. A

black sand backs on to an endless rise of dense native bush.

The breakers are chaotic, the men strain to keep their footing,

calling to each other.

Two of the men are black, all are battered, tattooed and tough, some

are drunk.

Behind the woman is her daughter, a girl of ten in Scottish dress. She

too is carried on the shoulders of seamen.

ADA is placed on the sand. She looks down at her feet sinking into the

wet sand, then up at the huge confusion of fern and bush in front of

her. The sound of sea behind is thunderous.

Several of the seamen have formed a group and are pissing on the sand.

Her daughter is on all fours evidently being sick. But ADA's attention

is diverted to the seamen who are staggering through the waves with a

huge piano shaped box. They put it down as soon as they get to 5hore

but ADA makes gestures that they must immediately bring it to higher

safer ground. The piano placed to her satisfaction she hovers near it,

one hand in constant touch of it while her daughter grips her free

hand.

Sc 10     EXT     BEACH                         DAY     Sc 10

TWO SEAMEN finish carrying the last crate to shore. Trunks and boxes

including an open crate with hens are scattered carelessly along the

shore.

The SEAMEN gather together. After a discussion in which they look

between ADA and her child and their Coaster out on the sea, one of the

men approaches. Behind him the other men keep their eyes out to sea or

down on the sand. They don't want to be involved. The sight of the

women alone on this beach is too hopeless.

ADA nods.

ADA nods.

ADA signs to her daughter. The little girl speaks clearly and loudly

without emotion.

Puzzled, the man walks off, then turns and comes back.

ADA signs vigorously to FLORA.

SCENE 11 DELETED

Sc 12     EXT     BEACH                         DAY     Sc 12

ADA is sheltering behind the crated piano, anxiety etched on her face.

FLORA  is asleep at her feet a half eaten biscuit in her hand ADA has

found a gap through the crate so that she might lift the lid and play

a few notes. The sweetness and comfort of the piano seem only to

exaggerate their isolation and hopelessness.

2- See notes

Suddenly a rush of sea water shoots straight under the raised crate of

the piano wetting her shoes. ADA stands, pushing FLORA onto her feet.

She is aghast to see the tide has crept in completely unnoticed.

They watch three of their boxes float out to sea. One of the hens has

escaped the crate and is bobbing up and down in the waves.

SCENE 13 DELETED

Sc 14     EXT     BEACH                         DUSK     Sc 14

There is just a pink streak left in the sky. ADA and FLORA shelter

inside their make-shift tent, a hooped petticoat secured at the edges

with stones.  Inside the tent a candle lights up their conversation.

ADA is hand signaling a story to FLORA who lies back watching, nervous

and afraid. ADA's whole self is involved in the "telling", her face is

alight with expression, now tender, now sad, now humorous, now soft,

while her hands and fingers are deft and precise. From outside it is

an odd shadow play.

ADA pauses.

Sc 15     EXT     BUSH ON WAY TO BEACH          DAY     Sc 15

Through a dense bush walk a party of fourteen MAORI people and two

EUROPEAN MEN. The wetness, closeness and darkness of the bush is such

that the air seems green, like at the bottom of a deep sea. Two of the

MAORIS share one pair of shoes and all of them are clothed in a

mixture of native and European costume. Of the Europeans one is small

and has a shy manner. He has a half completed Maori tattoo across his

cheeks. The other is a similar age about 45 and wears a suit, muddy

and out of place here in the bush. He staggers, spurts forward then

slows to a stop. His hair and face are wet and his skin reflects the

green foliage. BAINES the younger man turns and slows.

The MAORI voices and laughter are becoming fainter. BAINES watches

torn between his concern for STEWART and the split in their party.

3-See Notes

Unable to get an answer BAINES runs after the MAORIS.

STEWART takes out a comb and drags it dazed and zombie like through

his wet hair. Inside the darkness of his pocket, he turns over and

over a small, worn edged photograph, a smudge of green light allows us

to see ADA's tumbling face. Taking it in the heel of his hand he

secretly looks at it. Just as the party return and settle he stares on

ahead possessed and determined.

The MAORIS look at BAINES bewildered.

Sc 16     EXT     BEACH                     MORNINGSc 16

It is early morning. The sea is calmer and the tide is again low. The

party or two EUROPEANS and fourteen MAORI MEN and WOMEN come out on to

the beach. About half the MAORI party head straight for the shoreline

where an older woman loudly organises a pipi collection. All sorts of

containers are used from flax baskets to shirts with knots in their

arms. The rest follow STEWART and BAINES over to the boxes. STEWART

automatically re-combs his hair, patting it against his forehead,

where it sticks in a raked pattern. On his head he carefully places a

formal top hat, oddly dean compared to his mud splattered suit. The

party stops short of the petticoats where a tell-tale foot reveals its

occupants.

ADA and FLORA struggle up to find themselves confronted by a group of

men and women. The MAORIS stare curiously and comment on the women.

A man points at FLORA's feet and gestures as if holding one of the

little shoes in his hand.

FLORA is struck by shyness and hides under her mother's skirt. ADA

cannot look straight at STEWART and STEWART also cannot look at her.

As ADA does not move STEWART is puzzled.

ADA nods and looks up coldly, insulted by his slow loud speaking.

STEWART smiling searches ADA's face for some sign of comprehension but

is unnerved by her lack of response. He stops smiling, and, patting

his hair walks to the closest box. Several of the MAORI party follow

behind STEWART while one of them closely and particularly mimics him.

ADA points to the writing already on the box saying "Crockery and

Pots".

ADA writes "bedclothes and linen" on the pad around her neck- While

she writes he takes the opportunity to scrutinise her.

He walks to another chest

She writes "clothes". The MAORI mimic also pretends to write.

Finally he comes to the piano box. He lifts a corner experimentally.

The MAORIS touch the exposed legs of the piano.  STEWART speaks to the

other European man BAINES.

STEWART holds BAINES back a moment.

STEWART nods towards ADA. BAINES thinks a moment then turns towards

ADA too.

BAINES walks over to HONE a big man and the MAORJ leader, he stands

tall with a great sense of his own importance. (Mana)

HONE takes an aggressive fighting posture towards BAINES, insulted

that BAINES should suggest he might carry anything. HONE does not

carrying, he is the boss. With great dignity HONE retreats, too

injured to help. Other MAORIS come up and BAINES assigns them boxes.

ADA gets worried, the piano is being left alone. She writes on her

pad, "THE PIANO?" She shows STEWART.

STEWART looks at FLORA

ADA writes "I NEED THE PIANO." Her MAORI mimic copies her.

ADA signs to FLORA.

STEWART slows down as he watches ADA again sign to FLORA, he has the

uncomfortable impression he is being interrupted.

STEWART is shocked, his mouth hangs slightly open, paused in mid

speech. TAHU mimics this mouth drop perfectly.

STEWART is growing confused and anxious. His two mimics and their

growing audience unnerve him further.

STEWART nods suspiciously towards the MAORI speaker not understanding

him, the speaker smiles and nods back.

STEWART walks away. ADA stands beside the piano turned away from the

activities. FLORA pats her hand trying to cheer her. Down on the beach

a fire is lit and pipis are prepared for cooking. Some of the young

men are racing naked into the sea.

Sc 17     EXI     BEACH                         DAY     Sc 17

It is some hours later and the carrying party are beginning to make

their way up into the bush. ADA still stands beside her piano. FLORA

wants to follow the party. BAINES comes back along the beach, trailed

by a young Maori boy, KAHA.

ADA turns to BAINES, her face angry and defiant, her eyes full of

tears. BAINES falls back, struck by her show of emotion. ADA and FLORA

walk past him toward the bush.

Sc 18     EXT     CLIFF ABOVE BEACH               DAY     Sc 18

The party threads its way through the bush along the cliff. ADA pauses

at the cliff top to see her piano below on the sand, tiny and

desolate. Its distance and her love of it suddenly strike her. Its

music is faint and becomes loud over the next scene.

Sc 19     EXT     BUSH FROM BEACH               DAY     Sc 19

Brown feet squelch through the mud, finally followed by dainty boots

caked in dirt. The MAORI leaders of the party have stopped.

4 - See Note

BAINES works his way to the front.

STEWART struggles up to the front to join BAINES, he speaks over the

top of HONE.

The MAORI leaders continue discussing.

STEWART continues over the top of the MAORI discussion.

ADA and FLORA sit watching, out of breath. The bush is dense,

claustrophobic and exotic. One of the MAORI women sits close to ADA

apparently not looking at her- Slowly she draws the scarf that is in

ADA's lap into her own. Defiantly she puts it on.

Meanwhile another woman makes a very dignified attempt to wipe the

freckles from FLORA's face.

Sc 20     EXT     STEWART'S                    DAY     Sc 20

It is another day and STEWART'S hut, bleakly set amidst smoking stumps

is full of squeals, chasing and antics.

Sc 21     INT     STEWART'S HUT               DAY     Sc 21

The reverend in frock coat has a wedding dress stuck part way up his

arms. It is not a normal wedding dress but a backless one used again

and again as a photographic prop. Stewart's AUNT MORAG and her

companion NESSIE are trying to pull it off.

ADA and FLORA find the family fun frightening and have taken refuge in

the bedroom.

The REVEREND tickles his sister as she tries to get the sleeve off his

hand. NESSIE squeals with excitement.

NESSIE looks towards ADA panting with excitement at the fun.

The two women now fit the wedding dress on ADA.

FLORA sits on the bed sulkily. She leans back and crosses her leg.

The two women pause to look at FLORA. ADA signs to FLORA "THAT'S

ENOUGH!"

ADA looks away, the two women finish primping the dress. FLORA crosses

her arms.

Sc 22     EXT     STEWART'S Hut                DAY     Sc 22

NESSIE half holds an umbrella over ADA as they make their way to where

the camera is setup in front of a chair and a sparse display of three

toi-toi. All about the house is muddy, so much so that they must weave

their way through on planks and logs. A fine veil of rain is falling

across the distant bush, the whole valley is shrouded in mist. STEWART

looks through the camera at the REVEREND and the photographer who are

posing as the couple, complete with tatty bouquet. STEWART notices

ADA's arrival and seeing her as a real bride, his bride, he is

struckdumb with pride, even the rough tapes at the back or the dress

cannot destroy the illusion.

The umbrellas are held away, the rain pours down.

Sc 23     INT/EXT     STEWARTS HUT BEDROOM     DAY     Sc 23

AUNT MORAG has brought a chair into the bedroom and sits knee to knee

with FLORA.

AUNT MORAG checks to see if someone is coming.

AUNT MORAG sits back, regarding FLORA with obvious disapproval and

disappointment. She smooths back her hair.

AUNT MORAG is becoming involved again. She leans forward.

MORAG looks over her shoulder as FLORA continues to talk, so

persuasive is FLORA's storytelling that the scene comes vividly to

life, albeit in FLORA's dark pupil.

The story is interrupted by the return of the wedding party who are

dripping wet, exactly as the couple in the story. AUNT MORAG bustles

over to take off the wet wedding gown, her face puckered with tragedy.

Before she can undo the ties ADA pulls it from herself so aggressively

that the ties and part of the gown comes apart. None of this is a

concern to ADA who is distracted with fear for her piano. She crosses

to the little window and stares anxiously at the falling rain.

Sc 24     EXT     BEACH                         DUSK     Sc 24

Soft piano music has been playing over the previous scene. Now it

builds to strength as sea water swirls high around the piano, small

and embattled on the dark rainy beach.

Sc 23     INT     STEWART'S HUT BEDROOM          DAY     Sc 25

It's morning of the next day. ADA and FLORA sit amongst tea chests in

the bedroom. ADA is signing intently to FLORA. FLORA signs back,

sometimes using words. STEWART watches uneasy with their secret

communication. As STEWART enters the animation is suspended. ADA

stands and takes a step back as if to attention.

FLORA and ADA look at each other.

ADA looks at him blankly, then nods.

Sc 26     EXT     STEWART'S                    DAY     Sc 26

ADA and FLORA dressed in cloaks and bonnets skirt the dense bush

trying to find a path in. It is not easy, because the bush is so

tight. ADA's leg slides in up to her calf in mud.

Sc 27     EXT     BAINES'                    DAY     Sc 27

ADA and FLORA arrive at BAINES' rough hut. It is mid-morning but

BAINES is not yet dressed. ADA hands him a note. BAINES looks at it

blankly.

ADA signs to FLORA.

Sc 28     EXT     BAINES'                    DAY     Sc 28

It is much later when BAINES emerges from his hut with a saddle over

his arm. The two women are still there. ADA looks up at him

expectantly.

FLORA mirrors her expression.

He puts the saddle over a rail. He continues to saddle up, sneaking

glances at them from under the horse and around its side. They watch

him closely, not pleadingly, but stubbornly1 eerily of one mind.

Sc 29     EXT     BEACH                         DAY     Sc 29

The sky is blue with long wisps of cloud.

The party of three break onto the long expanse of beach where the

piano still stands. It has not been without visitors. There are

footprints on the sand and some of the boards have been pulled back.

ADA passes BAINES, walking urgently towards it. Soon, ADA has removed

enough boards that she may lift the lid and play the keys. EMNES stays

back. ADA takes great delight in feeling her fingers on the keys

again. Her whole composition is altered. She is animated, joyful,

excited.

Down on the wet sand FLORA does a wild dance of her own invention

using a seaweed wig. She finishes by rolling down the beach in the

sand.

BAINES views them with suspicion, yet he is magnetically drawn to the

spectacle He has never seen women behave with so much abandon. His

attention fixes on ADA's uninhibited emotional playing, and as he

watches, he finds himself edging irresistibly closer.

Sc 30     EXT     BEACH                    LATE AFTER NOONSc 30

The shadows are long on the sand when BAIN'ES collects the boards. ADA

and FLORA are attempting a duet. ADA notices him come towards them

with the boards, obviously intending that they should leave. Her mood

darkens, she continues playing stubbornly even though FLORA has

stopped. Abruptly she finishes. In black spirits she replaces her cape

and bonnet. BAINES is struck by this sudden change, he watches her

mesmerised as he replaces the boards.

Sc 31     EXT     BEACH                    NIGHT          Sc 31

From a helicopter, the camera tracks along the beach, following the

crashing wave line, to find the piano.

SCENE 32 DELETED

Sc 33     EXT     STEWART'S HUT & KITCHEN     DUSK          Sc 33

The hut puffs smoke out into the valley. The lie of the land traps

sound like a shell and the clear high notes of a voice echo out.

Suspicious that ADA is singing, STEWART approaches the house quietly.

Through the open kitchen door he sees that the keys of a piano have

been etched on the table top. While ADA "plays" the notes FLORA sings

them.

STEWART puts his pack down. ADA stands to attention, folding the

tablecloth back over the table.

5, 6 + 7 See notes

ADA nods. STEWART'S hand explores the markings on the table. ADA

watches his hand moving under the checked cloth.

Sc 34     INT     MISSION HOUSE               DAY     Sc 34

AUNT MORAG, NESSIE and TWO MAORI GIRLS dressed in proper Victorian

costume are kneeling around a huge double white sheet, sewing and

cutting it. The MAORI girls are part of the mission's good works. They

are dressed in European style and while their training is in polite

proper domestic behaviour they constantly corrupt it with their

demonstrative displays of affection, and their clay tobacco pipes to

which they are addicted.

STEWART is standing, looking on. BAINES is behind him in the kitchen

removing his boots.

NESSIE leaves to get the tea. HENI, the MAORI girl with a Moku tickles

MARI'S back while she sews.

They sing the anthem in snatches. It is background to the

conversation.

NESSIB puts STEWART'S tea down. BAINES comes in with his tea cup

dwarfed in his big hands. He stands back leaning against a wall.

NESSIE hustles back to the kitchen.

AUNT MORAG pats her chest. a calming device.

She holds her needle up for NESSIE to thread.

BAINES watches quietly on.

Sc 35     EXT     STEWART'S WOODCHOP          DAY     Sc 35

STEWART is at the woodshop cutting firewood. He displays his

virtuosity as an axeman, cutting the wood into ever more slender

pieces, FLORA is watching and stacking the fallen timber. She flinches

as the axe hits the wood, but scurries in to pick up the timber.

BAINES is standing talking to STEWART.

BAINES carries a log across for STEWART who talks without pausing in

his work,

BAINES nods. STEWART stops, this is serious.

STEWART has walked a few paces away from his wood chop in the

direction of the land.

BAINES remains silent. He looks away.

BAINES shrugs.

FLORA has stopped stacking. She is lying along the top of the wood,

lifting a leg up and down, watching the men.

Sc 36     INT     STEWART'S KJTCHEN               DAY     Sc 36

STEWART, flushed with his plans, is pouring tea into cups. FLORA peers

at cup level through the steam. ADA sits beside her at the table.

ADA signs to FLORA.

ALA finger signs, her face furious.

ADA's breathing becomes heavy with anger, she writes Curiously on her

pad.

STEWART regards her note and her passion with suspicion and disdain

ADA's emotions are suddenly removed and she views STEWART blankly,

eerily so.

Sc 37     EXT     BUSH FROM BEACH               DAY     SC 37

The piano is taken up through the bush by a group of six to eight

MAORI MEN. It's very heavy and awkward and they grunt and struggle

with it.

Someone stumbles and the back of the piano comes crashing to the

ground thundering out in the bottom end of the scale. People scatter.

Only one stays who warrior like challenges the piano.

Sc 38     EXT     PATH TO BAINES                DAY      Sc38

The women duck low to avoid a branch as STEWART leads them to BAINE'S

hut. STEWART carries the piano stool.  The path slopes up through a

strange, bearded forest where the tops of trees are bare and ghost

like.

ADA is unrepentant, she does not want to teach BAINES the piano.

Sc 39      INT/EXT     BAINES' HUT                DAY     SC 39

The piano is the only cared for item in the rough hut

The "girls" look anything but excited. FLORA shy, plays obsessively

with a long strand of greasy hair. ADA is cold and grim.

STEWART leaves. BAJNES goes to the piano and lifts the lid. He looks

at them. ADA signs to FLORA.

BAINES holds out his hands, spread wide as if holding a ball.

FLORA puts her neat little fingers together, first with their backs up

then she turns them over. HAINES does the same only his bands are big

and coarse. ADA signs to FLORA. BAINES is shyly keen.

ADA signs.

ADA and FLORA do not move. Humiliated BAINES takes a scrub brush, soap

and bucket and goes outside. ADA can see him from the window. She

moves to her piano. She wants to touch it but she is torn by her

feelings, wanting it, but not owning it. She strokes the varnished

wood with her hand and softly lifts the lid. Outside FLORA stands

beside BAINES pointing out hits of his hand he should still scrub.

Furtively she lays her hands on the keys. The instrument is horribly

out of tune, almost every note is off. She goes outside and signs to

FLORA.

The two women leave.

Sc40     EXT      STEEP BUSH HILL                DAY     Sc40

Two men come crashing out down a steep bush hill, They are tied to

each other. BAINES, the younger and stronger, is trying to break their

fall by grasping hold of branches and shoots. Finally their fall is

checked. The old man is white haired, the front of his suit splattered

with the debris of many meals. He sits up feeling about for his

glasses. He is blind. His eyes, though closed, wobble and roll BAINES

finds the glasses One of the lenses has gone, the other is very dark.

The old man fits his handkerchief in the gap.

Sc 41     EXT     HUGESCREE                    DAY     Sc 41

BAINES carries the old man on his back, they cross a huge scree. Each

of BAINES' steps dislodge a fall of rocks. The crashing of stones

echoes across the valley. BAINES and he are but small dots in this

giant earth scar

SCENE 42 DELETED

Sc 43     INT     BAINES' HUT                    DAY     Sc 43

Inside BAINES' hut the old man feels the piano.

Out of his pocket he takes a carefully wrapped tuning fork. He unwraps

the package, lifts the back and lid and starts to tune. He sniffs the

air. BAINES watches, He sniffs close to the keys.

He works on.

BAINS looks over at him from the meal he is preparing.

The blind man stops working.

The man goes back to work somewhat depressed by the futility of the

venture.

SCENE 44 DELETED

SCENE 45 DELETED

SC 46     EXT     BAINES' HUT                    MORNINGSc 46

A slash of sunlight falls across the piano. Thousands of particles of

dust become visible floating in the air. BAINES is at the window in

his shirt/night shirt. He notices the dust on the piano and strips off

his shirt which he uses as a duster. Under the shirt he is naked. As

he wipes the smooth wood he becomes aware of his nakedness. His

movements become slower until he is no longer cleaning, but caressing

the piano.

Sc 47     EXT     PATH TO BAINES'               DAY     Sc 47

On the path to BAINES' house, ADA and FLORA sit in the bush. ADA's

head is bowed. Her hands held over her face. FLORA tries to catch the

spots of light in her palm as they twinkle through the thick canopy of

leaves over head.

Sc 48     EXT/INT     BAINES' HUT                    DAY     Sc 48

The door opens. ADA and FLORA stand in their cloaks and bonnets.

ADA turns and walks off. FLORA bustles in. BAINES watches ADA from the

window,

FLORA begins a scale.

She looks over at BAINES who is still gazing out the window.

She gets up to see what BAINES is looking at. She sees her mother and

divines BAINES is looking at nothing.

FLORA starts again. ADA can only hear the piano faintly but moves

closer as she too hears it's in tune.

As she enters the hut BAINES pulls his fingers away from the piano.

FLORA sees this and stops too. She looks at her mother.

ADA checks the other notes. FLORA stands with her arms folded, a bit

sulky and fluffed up.

ADA tries the piano. She looks over at BAINES then signs to FLORA.

ADA is a bit nonplussed. She does not want to be listened to anymore

than she wants to teach. She pulls a strand of her hair then signs to

FLORA.

BAIWES shrugs shyly and locks away out the window. He doesn't know

ADA is slow to start. Unobliging as ever she plays scales. But once

begun her belligerence fades as her absorption in the music

strengthens.

Sc 49     INT     STEWART'S HUT/ADA'S BEDROOM      NIGHT     Sc 49

Back at STEWART'S hut, ADA lies dispirited on the bed. FLORA lies

beside her holding ADA's hand.

ADA nods and strokes FLORA's hair from her face. FLORA leans back.

ADA signs to FLORA who watches in love with all the stories of her

mother and unreal father.

ADA continues to sign her hands casting odd animal like shadows on the

newspapered walls.

STEWART enters their bedroom. FLORA stops and ADA stands against the

wall. STEWART finds the atmosphere curious yet impenetrate.

FLORA looks up at her mother. ADA shrugs.

STEWART nods stiffly, and uncomfortably, he leaves.

Sc 50     EXT     BAINES' VERANDAH               DAY     Sc 50

It's raining heavily, FLORA sits on the small verandah outside BAINES'

hut, her legs stuck straight out into the wet. She is overseeing a

merciless power game with the dog, forcing it out of the verandah with

a stick.

Sc 51     INT     BAINE'S HUT                    DAY     Sc 51

ADA's playing can be heard inside. BAINES sits back watching ADA. Her

cape on the hook is dripping a puddle on to the floor and there is a

circle of drips around her skirt hem. She is totally absorbed in her

piano music as she was on the beach.

BAINES watches. Her long white neck, now wet from rain, proves

irresistible. He comes across the room and kisses her. ADA jumps up

and prepares to leave. BAINES stands in front of the door.

She doesn't move,

ADA eyes him suspiciously.

ADA is tense but she is thinking about it. She holds up a finger then

points to the black of her dress.

ADA shakes her head.

She walks over to her piano and points to a black key.

ADA turns raising her head, nodding.

BAINES is counting the keys. ADA starts for the front door.

She sits back at the piano. She plays the lowest black key as in

number one

She takes her hands off the piano waiting.

Obediently she begins, stopping abruptly, indignantly, as he touches

her neck.

After a moment she settles back to the piano.

Sc 52     EXT     BAINES' VERANDAH               DAY     Sc 52

Outside FLORA is cradling the poor confused dog, asking him what cruel

miserable person had sent him out into the cold and wet.

Sc 53     EXT     RIVERHOLE NEAR BAINES'          DAY     Sc 53

BAINES bathes in a riverhole. He is watched by a gathering of Maori,

sometimes with great seriousness, at other times with hilarity. They

pass between them his clothes, trying them on and mimicking him. One

of the older women HIRA crouches close to the bank keeping up a steady

line of inquiry. Her manner is relaxed but focused and persistent. She

smokes a pipe-

BAINES continues good humouredly washing.

BAINES shakes his head amusedly. As he gets out of the river HIRA

slaps him.

HIRA touches her own face where BAINES' tattoo is.

Several people on the bank are taking turns to comb their hair,

peering into a tiny piece of mirror.

Sc 54     EXT/INT     BAINES' HUT                    DAY     Sc 54

BAINES' dog hears ADA and FLORA approach. It takes off under the

house. FLORA calls the dog. It keeps well hidden. ADA has gone on

inside and the door is closed. FLORA stands outside the door left out

and lonely. She knocks. BAINES answers.

She buries her head in her mother's skirt.

ADA signs to FLORA.

ADA leads her to the door signing to her

FLORA is shut out.

Sc 55     INT     BAINES' HUT                    DAY     Sc 55

ADA sits at the piano. She is shy and nervous She turns to BAINES who

nods. ADA begins to play. BAINIES keeps his head bowed, but as the

playing becomes more confident he raises his head to watch.  He sits

at a far corner of the room apparently enjoying the whole vision or

this woman at her piano.

After some time BAINES, affected by the music, takes his chair to a

closer position and from an opposite angle. ADA glances up as she

feels him passing behind her.  He seems satisfied to watch. His

attention finally focuses on her neck as it bends further or closer to

the piano.

Again he shifts his chair, taking it round the back and to the other

side of the piano. As he moves ADA watches warily. From this position

be doesn't try to touch her, but watches, enjoying her fingers moving

on the keys and the small details of motion on her face. Twice he

closes his eyes and breathes deeply BAINES is experiencing an

unpractised sense of appreciation and lust. When his eyes are closed,

ADA glances at him with curiosity and suspicion.

Sc 56     INT     SCHOOL HALL                    DAY     Sc 56

FLORA stands on a kitchen chair. AUNT MORAG and NESSIE have paused

from fitting FLORA's bodice and wire angel wings. They are attempting

to learn the hand gestures as FLORA signs:

FLORA deftly demonstrates.

AUNT MORAG and NESSIE exchange looks.

Sc 57     INT     BAINES' HUT                    DAY     Sc 57

ADA is quick to remove a used plate and cup left on top of the piano.

BAINES is sitting next to the window, his elbow on the sill, his head

turned away.

ADA stops playing. She turns to him. Thinks about it then slowly lifts

her skirt a little to show her boots.

ADA pulls the skirt up fractionally so the top other boots are

exposed.

BAINIES nods ADA starts to play again, not so confidently as before.

BAINES moves close, he goes down on his knees to watch her feet on the

pedals.

ADA doesn't hear.

She stops and lifts her skirt to her knees. She looks at BAINES with

ill-disguised contempt. BAINES is enthralled with her legs, or what he

can now see of them. He moves back to watch them from behind. He's

lying on the ground, head propped on his arm. ADA's slim stockinged

calves work the pedals, one of the stockings has a small hole through

which her white skins shows

Sc 58     EXT      MISSION HOUSE GROUNDS          DUSK     Sc 58

HENI holds STEWART'S horse near a wooden gate. Its wet coat steams in

he night air, making the whole horse glow. HENI talks softly to it in

Maori.

Sc 59     INT     MISSION HOUSE               NIGHT     Sc 59

Inside the REVEREND is closely watched by STEWART, AUNT MORAG and

NESSIE as he cuts out the shape of an axe from a piece of marbled

cardboard. A lamplight flickers warm tones across their faces while

the rest of the room is dark giving it a conspiratorial air.

NESSIE hesitatingly puts her arm out towards him and the REVEREND

chops away in the air two feet in front other, NESSIE looks at AUNT

MORAG puzzled.

The REVEREND points to the opposite rose-papered wall, where his

shadow and paper axe now look very real as they loom large above the

crouching NESSIE chopping into her. NESSIE squeals, as does MARY.

Sc 60     INT     BAINES' HUT               DAY     Sc 60

ADA's finger plays the fourth black key from the left hand side,

denoting lesson four.

ADA is taken unawares. She sits a moment unsure if she wants to

cooperate, then slowly she staffs to undo her buttons.

ADA pulls her arms out of the tight sleeves. Underneath she wears a

worn-in bodice. Her arms are so white they seem transparent. A

delicate network of blue-green veins crisscross up the soft underpart

of her arms. A dark growth of hair in her armpit suggests a shadowy

depth. The back of her hands, normally white, are quite tanned in

comparison.

BAINES draws his chair close. Gently he places his hand on the soft

underpart of her forearm. ADA stiffens and pulls away. He grips the

arm.

ADA continues to play. Slowly he moves his hand higher towards her

shoulder. Clearly unnerved she changes the music to something brisk,

almost comical. BAINES feels suddenly ridiculous, his mood broken. He

takes his hand away and moves back to the window injured. ADA is

victorious, she is pleased to have won herself a respite.

Sc 61     EXT     STEWART'S WOODCHOP          DAY     Sc 61

STEWART is at the woodchop talking to AUNT MORAG and NESSIE.

MARY and HENI, AUNT MORAG'S Maori girls lie sprawled out under a tree.

NESSIE has been sorting through a basket of invitations, finding

STEWART'S she hands it to AUNT MORAG who hands it to STEWART.

STEWART has stopped listening, he is watching ADA and FLORA pick their

way through the fallen logs to BAINES path.

The two women stop. There is a Japanese sense of deferment to STEWART

As ADA walks on AUNT MORAG leans towards STEWART.

STEWART looks after them unable to answer.

Sc 62     INT     BAINES' HUT                    DAY     Sc 62

BAINES secures a chair against the door while ADA is removing her

dress top. She sits at the piano hugging herself against the chill.

As BAINES passes be knocks the jacket off the chair back. He picks it

up and takes it across to her seat by the window.

BAINES nods and ADA begins to play. BAINES fingers the still warm

jacket1 he lifts it up and smells it. ADA turns around and stops

playing suddenly appalled by his odd sensual pleasure taking. She

holds out her hand for the jacket, her expression stern and

censorious. She indicates he should return it to the chair back.

BAINES ignores her. ADA stands and comes over to BAINES. She pulls the

jacket from his hands and replaces it across the chair back, but as

she turns to sit,

BAINES is beside her. He pulls the shoulders of her bodice down,

exposing her shoulders and some of her breast. ADA immediately stands,

but BMNES is much stronger and man-handles her across to the bed. ADA

struggles seriously, this is much, much more than she was expecting.

ADA holds up five fingers and mouths 'five'.

ADA shakes her head vigorously and again mouths five'.

ADA no longer struggles. She is stiff and still. BAINES intoxicated by

the smell and presence of her skin becomes soft and gentle. He kisses

and touches her with feeling and affection. Then suddenly aware of her

stillness he too becomes still. He pulls himself up to see whether her

face betrays her feelings. ADA seizes this opportunity to return to

the uncertain sanctuary of her piano. From the bed, BAINES watches her

run a hand noiselessly over the polished ivory keys, a gesture

betraying affection never afforded to him. BAINES gets up. He shuts

the piano lid forcing ADA to remove her hand.

ADA immediately stands and dresses, marking hurtfully BAINES'

ownership of her piano.

Sc 63     EXT     STEWART'S HUT               SUNSETSc 63

A golden evening. STEWART in his best shirt and trousers prepares the

horse and cart.

Sc 64     INT      STEWART'S HUT  ADA's BEDROOM      SUNSETSc 64

Inside FLORA is in her finished Angel costume, she sings softly to

herself while ADA undoes the long strands of plaits and separates them

to comb.

STEWART comes in to put on his jacket, but the collar is all tucked

in. ADA automatically adjusts it for him, settling it around his neck.

Her touch, meant practically, strangely affects him. In an impassioned

impasse, meant gallantly, he tries to kiss ADA's finger tips. The

gesture falters as ADA, surprised, jumps back.

Sc 65     EXT     SCHOOL HALL                    DUSK     Sc 65

People are arriving at the school hall. One family is being ferried

through the mud in a wheelbarrow.

10 See Notes

Sc 66     INT     SCHOOL HALL                    NIGHT     Sc 66

Some people are already seated in the hall. Several other angels have

arrived, and they like FLORA are ushered backstage.

Sc 67     INT     SCHOOL HALL BACKSTAGE          NIGHT     Sc 67

BACKSTAGE, the Sunday School teacher is gathering the children

together, reminding them of the order of songs, checking their hair,

etc. The local dramatic society are also preparing themselves. One of

the women is peeping through a hole in a make-shift curtain to watch

the townspeople seating themselves.

Despite this, there would still be only a maximum of forty people. 10

or so of them MAORIS in their best European dress.

Two of the women are putting a little c4ouring on each of the angels

while two other angels are being smacked for putting their white gloved

hands in the bucket of blood.

Sc 68     INT     SCHOOL HALL                    NIGHT     Sc 68

Everyone is chatting at each other's seats, except the MAOIRI guests

who wait solemnly. AUNT MORAG is organising the placement of the new

seats. BAINES arrives.

BAINES smiles and blinks, the teasing continues as BAINES scans the

room for ADA. Two of the MAORI PARTY share one pair of shoes so that

only one may be in the hall at a time, while the other waits

barefooted outside.

AUNT MORAG hustles over to BAINIES and pushes him in front of her

towards NESSIE and the piano.

BAINES looks wildly about for rescue.

BAINES backs off from NESSIE whose face drops in disappointment. He

has spotted ADA and is eager to take a seat near her. He takes the

seat next to ADA but one. He sits smiling and blinking. The teasing

continues, behind him.

ADA puts her hand on the seat and shakes her head indicating that she

is saving it for FLORA. BAINES is rebuffed and looks across at ADA who

ignores him.

The main lights are put out and everyone returns to their places. In

the dark STEWART shyly takes ADA's hand in his. BAINES watches STEWART

squeezing her hand and quite out of control stands and leaves

accompanied by a chorus of eshhhhhhhhhhhhhn. Satisfied, ADA watches

him go.

The children file on with their candles, They stand in a group singing

with great seriousness, but struck with shyness their voices are so

small as barely to be heard.

One of the smallest promptly pees. An arm reaches under the curtain to

wipe the stage.

Sc 69     INT     SCHOOL RALL & BACK STAGE     NIGHT     Sc 69

Backstage all is ready for the main dramatic event. There seems to be

more peep-holes than curtains as eyes press themselves to the little

flap. The master of ceremonies, the REVEREND is on stage explaining

the dramatics. He is wearing harlequin tights and rompers, his face is

dramatically paled. The candles are blown out.

The piano accompaniment is suspenseful while the audience shriek

appreciatively. Backstage AUNT MORAG provides the dripping blood,

moving between the corpses, she peers at the audience through a peep-

hole in the curtain.

(AUNT MORAG looks around gasping, fooled despite herself)

A loud improvised door slam and heavy footsteps. NESSIE, in costume,

freezes. The shadow of Bluebeard moves clumsily down the cut-out

banister and along the corridor.

The girl scrambles for the fallen key and rushes out of the closet

into the silhouette corridor.

BLUEBEARD pulls out a cut-out axe and moves towards her.

Two of the young warriors in CHIEF NIHE's party rise to their feet.

NIHE waves them down, but they are shaken up and only crouch above

their seats. The others stare anxiously between NIHE and the stage.

BLUEBEARD moves closer, the young wife drops to her knees her hands

held up in prayer.

As BLUEBEARD raises his axe again, first one then the other of the

young warriors run forward, shouting a fierce war cry and parting the

audience, who flee to either side while the corpses come very much to

life.

Only NIHE and his top-hatted daughter remain calmly in their seats.

The warriors have BLUEBEARD cornered and whimpering an umbrella held

spear-like above him. NIHE stomps his stick, his great voice booming

out.

Sc 70     INT     SCHOOL HALL BACK STAGE       NIGHT     Sc 70

Backstage the CHIEF and his party are shown the theatrical devices;

the blood-bucket, the paper axe, the splits in the sheets.

Sc 71     INT     BAINES' HUT                    DAY     Sc 71

ADA goes to the piano, she is upset that BAINES has again left a plate

on top of it. BAINES intercepts her, stepping several times between

her and the piano. She sees the game and stands still. He steps aside.

She removes the plate, gently, lovingly wiping the surface underneath.

There is a sulky irritation in the ways BAINES watches her.

ADA starts to play, BAINES watches then looks away.

ADA keeps playing until she has finished. Without looking at him she

holds up two fingers against the piano.

ADA starts playing again, BAINES feels powerless. He no longer admires

her absorption with the piano, he is jealous of it.

She stops playing. There is an insolence or casualness in the way she

regards BAINES. He pulls her chair back from the piano. This upsets

her, as much of her confidence was associated with the instrument.

BAINES kisses her passionately on the mouth. ADA pulls back, BAINES

persists, he is desperate and romantic.

Sc 72     EXT     BASE OF BUSH COVERED HILL     DAY     Sc 72

STEWART, with BAINES interpreting, talks with a group of MAORIS at the

base of a bush covered hill. The MAORIS sit behind a small

representation of the hill marked out with twigs on the ground. The

atmosphere is tense.

STEWART holds up his ten fingers and then two more.

The MAORIS look carefully at the quality of the blankets, noting the

depth of the weave and the strength of the Wool. They shake their

heads as they discuss them.

He messes up the pattern of twigs as he speaks.

ANGRY MAORI

(Angry to the NEGOTIATOR)

He aha te pononga 0 te whenus

pena kahore he Pu hei pupuri?

(What is the point of owning

our land if we have no guns to

hold it?)

The MAORI NEGOTIATOR gets up to leave as do the others, STEWART

snatches back his blankets and sulkily shakes them out to fold.

E hoa ma, haria atu ra takit

kia Nihe.

(Give my regards to Chief

Nihe.)

MAORI NEGOTIATOR

(Others join in)

Ac ra. Kia Ora! Kia Ora! Te

Peini.

(Yes indeed! Thank you. Thank

you, Peini.)

Sc 73EXT     BUSH AT NEW BOUNDARY MARKERSDAYSc 73

BAINES and STEWART walk through the bush. STEWART laden down with his

blankets, red-faced and irritable.

What do they want it for? They

don't cultivate it, burn it

back, anything. How do they

even know it's theirs?

BAINES stops as he comes to a freshly placed fence post. STEWART winds

down his complaints watching BAINES anxiously. BAIXES walks down to

the next one. he touches the freshly split post.

(tentatively) I thought I might

as well mark it out.

Yes, why not.

Ada says you're doing well with

the piano?

BAINES keeps walking from post to post.

I'll have to come and hear you

play. what do you play.

Nothing just yet

No. Well I suppose it takes

time.

Sc 74EXT     STEWARTS VEGETABLE PATCHDAYSc 74

ADA has cut a good sized cabbage in the vegetable patch. She throws it

to FLORA who misses, dropping it in a pool of mud, spattering her face

and dress. ADA smiles and FLORA who was about to cry gives the cabbage

a big football beet towards her mother. ADA's mouth falls open, but

then she too kicks it and they begin to dribble the mud caked cabbage

towards the hut, all the time signing playful insults. Into this

arrives STEWART.

Baines can't play a damn thing.

Is that right he can't play a

thing?

We're going to lose that land,

the way he was carrying on over

it.

Is he musical? You've got to

teach him a song. Something

simple.

FLORA has her foot on the cabbage, she nudges it off behind her. It

roll down the hill. STEWART can't help but notice,

What's that?

He follows the cabbage down the hill' where he scrapes some of the mud

off.

This thing's been knocked to

pieces.

Sc 75     INT/EXT     BAINES' HUT                    DAY     Sc 75

FLORA is seen through BAINES' window Inside, ADA as ever charts her

progress on the black keys, eleven. She turns to BAINES for

instructions.  BAINES is not himself, he is sulky and distant.

Do what you like. Play what you

like.

ADA is perplexed by this turn about of behaviour. A little

uncertainly, she sets about her playing. After a little she too turns

to see what BAINES is doing. He's not there. She is surprised then

anxious as she fears the deal may be off when there are flaw so few

keys to go. She starts to play again, but her anxieties prove too

great. She stops and listens. She looks out the window, where FLORA is

mucking about in the yard. She walks to his bedroom, listens, then

opens the door. BAINES stands naked looking at her. ADA is taken aback

I want to lie together without

clothes on. How many would that

be?

ADA holds up ten fingers an impossibly high number of keys.

BAINES nods.

ADA is surprised; she didn't expect him to agree. ADA checks again

holding up her hands.

Yes, ten keys.

Hesitantly, she starts to undress. She lies on her petticoat, having

deemed the bed too dirty. BAINES lies, very still on top of her. A

scraping sound is heard.

Sc 76     EXT/INT     BAINES' HUT                    DAY     Sc 76

FLORA is outside walking on sticks and logs trying to make sure she

never puts her foot on the ground. She looks over at the house

suddenly aware that the piano playing has stopped again. She

investigates the mystery peeping through the various cracks and holes

in the loosely built hut. Her vision is always only parts of bodies,

the venture is one of challenge and curiosity.

Sc 77     EXT     NATIVE PINE FOREST          DAY     Sc 77

FLORA and three small Maori children play amongst some native pines.

Two MAORI WOMEN smoke and chat nearby. The children rub up and down

against the tree trunks kissing and hugging them. The game has an edge

of promiscuity to it as they exchange trunks and hug one tree as a

group. Unseen by the children STEWART marches towards FLORA. He pulls

her off the tree.

The MAORI WOMEN keep up an unacknowledged chant.

Sc 78     EXT     NATIVE PINE FORESTDAY     Sc 7$

With a bucket of dull soapy water FLORA begins the task of washing the

tree trunks.

The MAORI WOMEN laugh and point to their feet meaning her to wash them

too.  Their children are lying in their laps playing string games.

Sc 79     EXT     NATIVE PINE FORESTDUSK     Sc 79

FLORA is still washing the tree trunk silhouetted against the evening

sky

FLORA is tearful and sorry for herself. The job has an increased

futility as it has begun to rain- STEWART is inspecting her penance.

She follows STPWART about the trees.

STEWART stops and looks at her.

STEWART continues through the trees more slowly.

FLORA puts her bucket on her head to protect herself from the rain.

Sc 80     EXT     PATH TO BAINES'          DAY     Sc 8O

The next day is very windy, the tops of trees are thrashed by fierce

gusts of wind and some smaller branches crash to the ground. ADA's

long dress and cape flap uncontrollably. FLORA's smaller cape stands

out on end. Birds fly in mad wind-battered courses, swooped up then

strangely drawn down.

Sc 81     EXT     BAINES'               DAY     Sc 81

ADA and FLORA arrive at BAINES' place to see the piano emerge from the

hut carried by six MAORI MEN, one of whom does nothing but walk beside

it "plonking" the keys. Another group of MAORIS sit cross-legged on

the verandah playing draughts. Panicked ADA hurries down the hill to

the hut. FLORA follows behind.

Sc 82     INT     BAINES' HUT               DAY     Sc 82

Inside the hut, HIRA, the old woman from the bathing spot, is smoking

her pipe. ADA enters distraught and indicates what she has seen. Her

face is flushed and whipped by the wind. She is much more expressive

than normal.

BAINES sits down on a chair and prepares to eat, somewhat ignoring

ADA. ADA is confused not quite believing the situation. She watches

BAINES for some kind of confirmation.

BAINES nods. ADA is still watching. HIRA scrapes the inside of her

pipe with the comb.

ADA is off balanced by the reversal of attitudes, surprised too, that

she doesn't want to go. FLORA is fast to leave, ADA follows to

organise and protect her piano on the journey.

Sc 83     EXT     BAINES' HUT & BUSH     DAY     Sc 83

As she climbs out of the small valley surrounding BAINES' hut, she

stops and walks back to look down at BAINES and his hut, in the EXACT

same manner that she once looked at her piano from the cliff-top above

the beach. BAINES is throwing the scraps of his meal to his dog, he

does not look up.

Sc 84     EXT     PATH TO BAINES' HUT STEEP HILL DAY     Sc 84

STEWART, on his way to BAINES, sees THE PIANO BEARERS and ADA way

below him in the bush. He scrambles down a steep slope towards them.

The women exchange looks.

STEWART is off, pounding on down through the bush.

Sc 85EXT/INT     BAINES' HUT/BEDROOM     DAY     Sc 85

HIRA is sitting on the front step of BAINES' place, blocking STEWART'S

easy access.

STEWART goes around to a side window in BAINES' bedroom. BAINES is

sitting on the bed, but lies back as he hears STEWART coming about the

side of the house. STEWART opens up the window.

He closes the window.

BAINES nods.

HIRA has wandered stiffly into BAINES' room. She sits on the edge of

his bed.

SCENE 86 DELETED

Sc87     EXT/INT     STEWART'S HUT     DAY     Sc 87

At the door of the hut STEWART is distributing buttons to the piano

bearers.

One squats catching them as they fall. A commotion begins as one of

the MAORIS snatches the whole jar and runs off. Two of them give chase

while the others insist on tobacco.

11 See Note

Inside the hut ADA had lifted the top of the piano and is peering in

while playing notes to check tune and damage.

ADA pulls up a chair and seats herself at the piano. She rubs her

hands and places them lightly on the keys, she turns from habit over

her left shoulder where STEWART waits crossed armed. Quickly she

removes her hands, stands and gestures FLORA to play. FLORA proudly

takes ~p the seat, she pulls her lips in trying to control her

happiness to say in front of both her mother and STEWART.

What will I play?

She looks to ADA, who looks back through her not concentrating.

Play a gig.

(to ADA) Do I know any gigs?

Play a song then

FLORA starts a song, ADA walks past them out of the hut, STEWART

ignores her exit moving up to lean on the piano. ADA is seen through

the hut window wandering amidst the ghostly, blackened trunks.

STEWART'S attention is drawn to ADA, he interrupts FLORA'S singing

with a sudden outburst.

(exasperated) Why won't she

play it? We have it back, and

she just wanders off!

FLORA stops to watch her mother through the window. ADA looks towards

the house as the music stops.

Keep playing!

Grimly STEWART slaps the top of the piano to FLORA's playing.

ADA continues to walk, her face dark and puzzled. She stops. Her head

stiffly, irresistibly, lifts and turns in the direction BAINES' hut.

She peers deep into the bush as if attempting to penetrate a puzzle.

She thinks and walks on.

Sc 88     INT     STEWART'S KITCHEN     DAY     Sc 88

The next day ADA and her piano face each other across the kitchen. A

slit of light falls across the piano highlighting it's rosey walnut

wood. ADA's expression is critical and distant.

Taking a cloth she begins to clean and polish the piano. Her finger

holds down one of the keys and we glimpse an old inscription on its

side, a small heart, and an arrow. Putting the cloth aside she sits at

the piano to begin playing.

She starts with wholehearted feeling, her eyes closed, but before long

she is surprised by a moving reflection across the piano and she

'starts', glancing over her shoulder. She stops and begins again. But

once more a reflex has her glance across her left shoulder and she

pauses in her playing. Disquieted she starts again and again she looks

away. She stops, confused, unable to go on, unable to getup, one hand

on the lid and one on the piano keys.

Sc 89     EXT     PATH TO BAINES'     DAY     Sc 89

ADA carrying her cape and bonnet hurries through the narrow bush path

to BAINES' hut, FLORA has a fist of her skirt and is pulling back. ADA

turns on FLORA and snatches the skirt out of the girl's hand. ADA

signs to her and continues on.

Why? Why can't I?

ADA signs again.

(crossing her arms) I shan't

practise and I DON'T CARE!

But ADA does not wait to listen. FLORA walks back through the bush

muttering childish expletives to herself. STEWART and his two MAORI

helpers come out of the bush towards her. FLORA squeals with fright.

(looking up the hill) Where's

your mother? Where has she

gone?

FLORA pauses petulant and grumpy.

FLORA races off as fast as she can, enlivened by her wickedness.

STEWART clambers back up the path. He just glimpses the distant figure

of ADA nervously turning, her skirts flying as she hurries up the bush

path The wind bothers the tops of the trees, setting them groaning,

rubbing their branches against each other.

Sc 90     INT     BAINES' HUT          DAY     Sc 90

ADA enters BAINES' hut, she is breathless1 announcing her presence by

simply being there, standing there. BAINES comes through from the

bedroom. Seeing ADA he is aloof, suspicious and his blinking becomes

pronounced.

ADA does not respond, finally she looks at BAINES and her look has a

vulnerability and frankness that takes him off guard.

ADA shakes her head.

ADA does not sit. She stands immobilised.  BAINES attempts to maintain

his casual charade) he pours a tea.

He turns to her about to speak, but stops unmanned by a new fragility

to her strength. He blinks rapidly

BAINES walks roughly towards the door and opens it, his softness

turned suddenly cruel.

ADA is stung by his change of tune, she takes a step towards him and

eyes filling with tears of anger hits him hard across the face.

BAINES' nose begins to bleed yet his face slowly lights up as if she

has spoken words of love. ADA is flushed, shocked, the two face each

other at this very moment of profound awareness of each other,

profoundly equal. With each new breath, with every moment that their

eyes remained locked together the promise of intimacy is confirmed and

reconfirmed and detailed until like sleepwalkers who do not know how

they came to wake where they did, they are standing next to each other

and beginning to kiss each other, the lips, the cheeks, the nose.

There is nothing practised about their tenderness, only their feelings

and emotions guide their instincts. BAINES' face crumples with the

exquisite pain of his pleasure, ADA cradles his head to her chest.

BAINES struggles through her dress anxious to touch her skin.

Sc 91     EXT/INT     BAINES' HUT          DAY     Sc 91

Outside STEWART surveys the hut suspiciously. BAINES' dog growls as he

climbs on to the small verandah. Carefully STEWART peers through some

loosely slatted boards. There are sounds inside which are worrying

him. By standing on the seat he has found a spyhole where he can see

ADA and BAINES kissing, undressing

He reels back angry, but just as we might expect him to burst through,

he steps up to look again; the fatal second look, the look for

curiosity. He watches BAINES bare-chested undressing ADA, her buttons

burst, ADA laughs, BAINES touches her under her skirts - anywhere, he

takes himself under her dress pulling down her stockings. STEWART

watches, stepping down to peer lower as BAINES buries into ADA's

skirt. He does not seem to notice the dog licking his hand. Suddenly

he pulls his hand away and looks at it, wet with dog saliva, he wipes

it on the boards and continues watching as if mesmerised.

Sc 92     INT     BAINES' BEDROOM     DAY     Sc 92

Inside BAINES' small bedroom the raw dark boards contrast with the

softness, whiteness of BAINES' and ADA's bodies, The long black

strands of ADA's hair stick to her cheek and wrap around her neck. Her

face is flushed and her eyes are bright. BAINES rolls his face across

her chest, gently, slowly savouring the flavour of her body. Drunkenly

they continue their sex slowly, slowly. ADA's breaths turn to low

murmurs; these small sounds are extraordinarily moving to BAINES whose

face swoons with joy.

Sc 93     INT     BAINES' BEDROOM&UNDER HOUSEDAYSc 93

As ADA dresses, BAINES sits on his bed watching. He is unhappy,

thoughtful.

ADA is distracted, collecting her buttons from the floor, concerned at

the time past, worried to dress and return.

The camera cranes down and down to find STEWART wedged under the loose

wooden floor slats. He cannot hear clearly, but ADA's hand reaching

for each button is only inches away. One falls through a slat on to

STEWART'S neck and on down his shirt collar. As she stands he rolls

out.

ADA considers this question. Clearly she doesn't know, the question is

more complex to her than to him, then as if by way of answer she

kisses him strongly and sexually. BAINES pulls away confused. ADA

finishes dressing. BAINES comes up behind her to help with the

buttons.

ADA turns and kisses him passionately, with the new born enthusiasm of

someone who has just discovered their appetite for sex. Then as

quickly as she began, she takes her hood and cape and goes to leave.

She nods and is gone.

Sc 94     INT     STEWART'S HUT ADA'S BEDROOMNIGHTSc 94

FLORA and ADA are both in their white nightgowns. FLORA stands behind

ADA on a chair trying to sort out the knots that have matted at the

back of ADA's head. ADA shakes her head from side to side playfully,

making the difficult job impossible.

FLORA tries to hold her mother's head still but ADA's high spirits are

unstoppable and her hair flies out from side to side flicking FLORA in

the face.

FLORA starts to giggle and retaliates flinging her own hair from side

to side. The two women are twirling in the small bedroom their hair

flying about them, FLORA is shrieking with the fun, then stops dizzy

and sick. ADA continues flicking FLORA as she twirls.

But ADA doesn't stop, her dark hair whirls about her, as giddy and

disorientated, she knocks against the walls

Sc 95     INT     STEWART'S HUT     NIGHT     Sc 95

Next door STEWART sits on his bed listening, his hair wet and neatly

combed. He has a journal of pressed botanical specimens beside him.

Hearing FLORA squealing he goes to the kitchen and standing back in

the shadows, watches ADA frenetic, whirling through the part open

door.

80

Sc 96     INT     STEWART'S HUT ADA'S BEDROOMDAWNSc 96

Daylight floods the room as ADA secures the pins at the back of her

hair.

Sc 97     EXT     PATH TO BAINES'          DAYSc 97

Music builds and plays throughout.) The sky is dark and the wind is

ballooning ADA's cape, wrapping it up high around her. The tree tops

are swaying furiously. Inside the bush it is dark and ADA hurries up

through the path. She is out or breath and glancing behind her as if

to guard against followers, when directly in front of her STEWART

steps out onto her path. ADA stops short. The look on his face is

unlike any expression she has yet seen. His eyes do not look at her,

but all about her in a way more animal than human. She lowers her eyes

and calling his bluff walks steadily past him. But STEWART takes her

arm and spinning her back, pulls her close and blind to all protest

kisses her. ADA struggles furiously. His grip falters and she steps

back staring at him, then runs off down the hill, but STEWART is on

top of her clasping her skirts, pulling her towards him hand over

hand, she slips and falls to the ground. STEWART is upon her, lifting

her dress, touching her legs, ADA goes quite still, which throws

STEWART long enough for her to scramble away, yet again STEWART

catches her and again they roll on the ground, STEWART touching and

kissing her, ADA turning herself this way and that to avoid it. There

is a cat and mouse quality to their mute struggle finally broken by

FLORA calling up the path, distraught and in tears, her angel wings

have twisted about her waist.

STEWART allows ADA to get up and the two women go back down the path

towards home. The distant sound of the piano keys thumping.

Sc 98     INT     STEWART'S HUT     DAY     Sc 98

At the piano and with solemn dignity sits a MAORI WOMAN. She is

wearing a top hat and a long black dress, beside her stands the MAORI

who absconded with the buttons, most of which he has attached to his

jacket. She plays loudly with two closed fists, her companion listens

gravely, placidly, blinking at the crashes, two others listen from the

doorway, one with his bands over his head.

Sc 99     INT/EXT     STEWART1S HUT     DAY     Sc 99

FLORA and ADA stand in the hut while fierce hammering can be heard

outside. STEWART is boarding over the windows, barricading them in.

FLORA joins in the spirit of be exercise gaily pointing out any slats

STEWART has missed.

ADA's face pales in the diminishing light. Exasperated by the

threatened incarceration she shakes her head with anguish and moving

to the piano lifts the lid and plays several bars brutally and

strongly. She passes on to the bedroom, where she picks up the small

hand mirror and looks at her face puckered with frustration. She

touches her face and neck tenderly, then throws herself on the bed,

face to the wall, her hands over her ears.

FLORA stands over her mother.

ADA rolls over, her eyes closed she pushes her face and body against

the mattress. The movement is sensual and removed. FLORA stops dealing

the cards on to the bed and watches her mother puzzled.

Sc 100INT     STEWART'S HUT     NIGHT     Sc 100

It is night and ADA is walking in the dark, ghostly in her white

nightgown. She sits at her piano and begins to play loudly and

strongly. Her hair is loose and she seems half-asleep. FLORA and

STEWART wake to the loud playing and fumble their way to the kitchen.

STEWART carries a lit candle. ADA continues her playing

FLORA passes a hand in front of ADA's face.

One night she was found in her nightgown on the road to London.

Grandpa said her feet were cut and bleeding so badly she couldn't walk

for a week.

The two watch ADA, mesmerised by her compulsive playing.

12 See Note

Sc 101EXT     STREAM NEAR STEWARTS'DAY     Sc 101

STEWART stands guard while ADA and FLORA wash their clothes in the

stream. FLORA is taking the lead, soaping up the clothes, she passes

the garments to her mother to rinse. ADA is distracted and as she

takes the clothes, she just as soon lets them go and they float off

down the stream past STEWART who tries to catch them but can't. Two

MAORI BOYS continue the chase, enjoying the fun, thinking it a great

adventure.

ADA stares off into the distance rocking lightly back and forth as she

crouches on a stone. Her dress unhitched floats down the stream behind

her.

12.See notes

FLORA wades across to grasp yet another garment ADA has let drift off.

Sc 102EXT     STEWART'S          DAY     Sc 102

On the way back to the barricaded hut FLORA swings between ADA and

STEWART.

ADA glances around at the bush. FLORA beams enjoying a feeling of

familyness of which she is now the boss. The two women go ahead into

the hut which STEWART shuts and secures with a beam.

Sc 103INT     STEWART'S HUT ADA'S BEDROQOMNIGHT     Sc 103

It is night. ADA is tossing in the small bed beside FLORA, her hair

wound across her face, she makes low moaning sounds as she pushes her

face and body up against the sleeping FLORA. Her movement and moans

increase until she wakes suddenly sitting bolt upright.

Sc 104INT     STEWART'S KITCHEN & BEDROOMNIGHT     Sc 104

ADA walks through the kitchen, small slithers of moonlight lighting

her path. She walks past the piano into STEWART'S room who has gone to

sleep with his candle still alight. ADA looks, then slowly her hand

hovers above him before lightly touching his face. His eyes open, he

looks towards ADA anxious and surprised, but as ADA continues, his

reserve breaks and he is captive to his own sensations. She pulls down

the sheet and strokes his neck, shoulders, chest, he reaches out

towards her.

But ADA scowls and pulls away roughly, STEWART lies back anxious not

to break the spell and when he is still ADA continues to caress his

chest. His eyes well with tears and he looks up into her face like a

child after a bad dream, fearful and trusting. ADA continues like a

nurse spreading ointment on a wound, tenderly and attentively she

strokes down towards his belly. STEWART'S skin goose bumps and be

shudders. He puts his hand on hers to still it1 she slides hers out

and continues stroking. He looks at her pleadingly and childlike, she

stops and kisses the soft skin of his belly, STEWART groans clutching

the mattress. ADA seems removed from STEWART as if she has a separate

curiosity of her own.

Sc 105INT     STEWART'S KITCHEN          DAY     Sc 105

Next day AUNT MORAG stands circling in STEWART'S small darkened house.

FLORA and ADA sit quietly together

STEWART comes into the house with some logs, AUNT MORAG follows him

across to the fire.

She continues following him to the door.

I have to say you have done the wrong thing here, you see you have put

the latch on the outside. When you close the door, (and she doses it)

it will be the Macna that lock you in, you see? With the latch on that

side you are quite trapped.

AUNT MORAG walks inside and continues to the table where her basket

full of clothes and packets of food have been left. She lifts it from

the table and begins to spread the cloth.

NESSIE and AUNT MORAG are unpacking parcels of cakes and biscuits

At this mention NESSlE's face crumples and tears again begin to flow.

NESSIE remarkably obeys, blinking her face back to shape.

ADA attempts to disguise her agitation, she moves to the piano and

strokes it, she begins to play.

STEWART and MORAG watch ADA at the piano. Her playing develops until

she is fully absorbed. AUNT MORAG is intrigued despite herself

Sc 106EXT     BUSY ROAD TO MISSIONDAY     Sc 106

On the edge of the bush beside the dirt road to town AUNT MORAG

attempts a discrete toilet stop. NESSIE keeps guard holding up the

cape while one of their MAORI charges holds up another.

The cape begins to droop as NESSIE listens.

NESSIE again lets the cape droop.

A fluttering sound in the bush.

The party finish and hurry a little spooked on the road to town.

Sc 107INT     STEWART'S ROOM     NIGHT     Sc 107

It is night. ADA enters the room, STEWART looks at her shyly.

ADA strokes his brow. STEWART closes his eyes, breathing heavily

relieved. ADA strokes the nape of his neck and on down his back.

STEWART'S face puckers, his eyes fill with tears. She strokes so

softly, the tenderness is shocking to him. Gently she pulls his under-

garment down, exposing his buttocks. STEWART grabs nervously at them,

hauling them up with his hands. ADA unclenches his fist and once more,

slowly pulls them down. She begins to stroke his buttocks, STEWART is

painfully eroticised, painfully vulnerable, he begins to weep, the

intimacy and soft-ness unman him and he is helpless. STEWART sits up

hunching over himself, retreating

Slowly he raises his head to look at ADA. She looks back moved by his

helplessness, but distanced as if it has nothing to do with her.

ADA does not respond. STEWART slumps into disappointment and despair.

Sc 108INT     STEWART'S KITCHEN     DAY     Sc 108

The next morning, ADA, FLORA and STEWART sit together in the small

dark hut. FLORA preens a miniature landscape of moss and tiny branches

all piled on a dinner plate. A slit of sunlight falling across the top

small branches gives it a magical glow. FLORA's small dirty fingers

push in another 'tree', she looks up happily

This is going to be Adam's tree

and then I'm going to make a

serpent to live here, with a

very long tongue. (She pokes

her tongue out and waggles it).

STEWART reads, he glances at ADA who is glum and lifeless.

Sc 109INT     STEWART'S HUT     DAY     Sc 109

ADA and FLORA wake to sunlight streaming in on their faces, more and

more of it as STEWART rips the boards from the windows FLORA runs

about in nightgown and boots happy to be in the sunlight. ADA winds

her hair into a bun. STEWART walks inside, he packs food and fencing

equipment

Sc 110EXT     STEWART'S          DAY     Sc 110

ADA hangs out washing restlessly scanning the bushline. A tiny STEWART

walks along the crest of the hill, eventually dropping out of sight.

Sc 111INT     STEWART'S HUT     DAY     Sc 111

Inside the hut ADA is pacing, anguished and frustrated. Impulsively

she picks up a knife from the kitchen table, opens the back of the

piano and cuts one of the keys loose. Carefully she engraves on the

side in Victorian handscript.

DEAR GEORGE, YOU HAVE MY HEART. ADA McGRATH.

Sc 112EXT     STEWART'S          DAY     Sc 112

Under the sheets FLORA has constructed a dolls' clothes line on which

she hangs small strips of cloth ADA hands her the key wrapped and tied

in white cotton. ADA signs. Her black shadow behind the sheet recalls

the macabre play.

The little girl continues defiantly with her miniature washing. ADA

rips the washing line up and flings it aside. FLORA is shocked,

stunned. She takes the key and walking off she turns and shouts.

ADA signals GO!

Sc 113EXT     PATH TO BAINES' AT FENCEDAYSc 113

At the junction of the path to BAINES' hut is the beginning of

STEWART'S boundary fence. At this place FLORA has paused. She looks

back to see if her mother is watching; she's not- FLORA turns sharply

right so that she now follows alongside STEWART'S boundary fence and-

away from BAINES' hut.

Sc 114EXT     HILLS WITH FENCE     DAY     Sc 114

The fence appears and disappears behind hills.  Flora too dips behind

the hills to reappear on the other side. She sings a brisk song to

herself.

Sc 115EXT     VALLEY WITH FOXGLOVE & FENCEDAYSc 115

She pauses in one of the valleys, stifled by clumps or tall, mauve

foxglove.

Sc 116EXT     COMPLETE FENCE ON HILLDAY     Sc 116

The fence line seems endless as the tired FLOW4 trudges up yet another

hill but from there, she can see where the fence finishes, half way up

the crest of the next hill and at this point is STEWART, driving in a

new fence post. He is watched by MANA and his friend who squat passing

a pipe between themselves. MANA strums tirelessly on his buttons.

She holds out the cotton covered piano key. STEWART looks up.

STEWART keeps working, hammering the post into the earth.

He stops and takes the key, suspicious and uncomfortable. He slowly

unwraps it and turning it over reads it. Squeezing the key in his

fist, STEWART staggers off in a daze, He returns, picks up his open

pack spilling the nails. Finally he drops the pack and the key) and

leaves with only his axe. FLORA follows confused. The MAORIS waste no

time investigating the booty. MANA presses the piano key repeatedly.

Sc 117EXT          STEWART'S     DAY     Sc 117

The sky is dark and rain is falling heavily as STEWART strides fast

towards the hut, his axe swinging in his hand. FLORA is far behind

him, her angelwings sodden.

Sc 118INT     STEWART'S HUT     DAY     Sc 118

STEWART bursts into the hut, his wet hair is splattered against his

forehead. his face is white. ADA looks up from her book, moving her

hands from the table. STEWART swings his axe hard. It slices into the

table, splitting a section off her book. ADA pushes her chair back.

He pulls the axe out of the table and swings it at the piano.

ADA runs forward to restrain him, but it sinks deep into the wood. The

struck piano lets ont a strange resonant moan.

He takes her by the wrist.

STEWART shakes her violently.

Sc 119EXT     STEWART'S HUT & WOODCHOPDAY     Sc 119

He pulls her out of the hut, past the now terrified FLORA.

He drags her out through the mud, towards the wood chop. It is raining

hard.

ADA sees where they are headed and suddenly she is very scared. She

bucks and struggles, but STEWART is infinitely stronger. At the wood

chop she breaks free and crawls away through the woodchips and mud.

But axe in hand he grasps her by the neck of her dregs, then her hair,

and pulls her backwards towards the cutting block. There, he takes her

right hand and holds it in place with his boot, so that only ADA's

index finger shows, ADA's head is held twisted between the wood chop

and STEWART'S leg.

ADA blinks rigid with fear. The rain is driving down.

The axe falls. ADA's face buckles in pain. Blood squirts onto FLORA's

white pinafore, her angel wings are splattered in mud.

ADA stands. She looks faint, her finger is pulsing blood, she shakes

her hand then seeing the blood she puts it behind her back shocked.

She watches FLORA, concerned and confused. Uncontrollably her whole

body starts to shake and as if by reflex ADA begins to walk. FLORA

trots parallel to her.

ADA keeps walking blindly like her being depends on it. Her face is

ashen, her eyes fearful as she walks unseeingly straight into a large

tree stump. She sinks into the mud.

STEWART wraps the finger in a white handkerchief and gives it to FLORA

who backs away from him terrified.

The figures seem tiny amidst the rain drenched skeleton forest.

SCENE 12O DELETED*

Sc 121EXT     MAORI PA     DAY     Sc 121

The formal farewells are over and HIRA and BAINES finishes shaking

hands and pressing noses with her people.

HIRA holds his arm, she is sad and tearful. He places his hat on her

head affectionately and slips her a much appreciated tin of tobacco.

A soft rain begins to fall. BAINES and HIRA make their way past the

Meeting House and the low sleeping houses to the Pa entrance where his

horse waits,

A crowd of children run beside them, dogs scurry off and pigs are

kicked out of the way, their owners protesting loudly. Some hold mats

over their heads to protect themselves from the rain, one has a

battered umbrella.

BAINES mounts his heavily laden horse. MANA pushes forward to say his

farewell, but is abruptly shoved aside, evidently unpopular with the

others. BAINES glances over and sees the piano key the man has

fashioned into an earring.

HIRA's voice rises as BAINES lets go of her arm and rides through the

group towards MANA. He takes the piano key in his hand, MANA pulls

back.

BAINES turns it over and finds the writing on it.

MAYA rubs his nails up and down his buttons while he considers what he

will have.

Sc 122EXT     MAORI PA     DAY     Sc 122

Outside the Pa walls near the kumera gardens, HIRA holds BAINES'

saddle bags. It is raining hard as he rides out, hatless, shoeless and

gunless, but clutching to his chest ADA's engraved key.

Sc 123EXT     SCHOOL     DAY     Sc 123

BAINES crosses through the pony paddock of the one room colonial

school hall, school house. He has a piece off flax knotted around his

waist to bold up his trousers. In the paddock are five very shabby

looking rides'. one huge old wagon horse, built to carry a whole

family, down to a tiny sour looking Shetland. The girls have long,

stained, once white pinafores and everyone wears boots that seem too

big, except the little boy who has the front cut off his hoots so his

toes can hang out.

Four little girls play a sedate game of skip rope, using a bush vine.

BAINES watches, noticing in particular a little girl of about 9 with a

bock. The boys and some of the wilder girls play BullRush.

NOTE  SCENE 123 REPLACES SCENES 124 AND 125

DELETE SCENES 124 AND 125

Sc 126EXT     GENTLE STREKM     DAY     Sc 126

The girl with the book goes off sit by a little stream. BAINES follows

and sits beside her.

The little girl immediately closes the book and walks off.

The girl keeps walking, before she turns about to watch him from a

safe distance.

Another little girl drops down from a tree.

(She is very small.)

The skipping group of girls join them.

BAINES holds out the packet to the little girl.

BAINES does anyway.

The little girl throws the lolly paper away, which one of the other

girls picks up and sniffs, she hands it to the others.

He holds out the piano key BIG SISTER takes it with great authority,

her friends crowd behind her. She frowns at the writing. She turns it

over.

The key is snatched from BIG SISTER and given to MYRTLE, the girl with

the book. The others crowd around.

The children look over at BAINES to see if this is right so far.

The little girls read it again together. MYRTLE turns the key over

matter of factly to see if there is more writing.

They all look up at him.

Everyone turns and listens to MYRTLE

She gives a little "Is that all?" gesture.

Another little girl spontaneously recites the message. And so does

another. Through all this BAINES keeps his bead down shaking it in

disbelief and shy happiness. He starts to laugh with relief and

pleasure. The little girls think it is something funny in the line and

continue to repeat it, which each then appears to give BAINES fresh

pleasure. Meanwhile the smallest of the girls is quietly helping

herself to the sweets.

SCENE 127 DELETED

SCENE 128 DELETED

Sc 129EXT     BAINES     DUSK     Sc 129

BAINTS rides up to his house in the evening light He is silly with

happiness. HIRA comes running out to meet him

BAINES jumps off his horse and strides into his hut.

Sc 130INT     BAINES' HUT     DUSK     Sc 130

Inside he finds FLORA crouching in a corner, her face is white, tear

stained and splattered with mud. Her angel wings are squashed behind

her and blood stained. On seeing BAINES she cries with renewed pain

and relief

FLORA thrusts the wrapped finger at BAINES. He takes the blood soaked

object and unwraps it. The finger unravels into his hand, he reels

back groaning, choking about to be sick.

But FLORA cannot speak. She bursts into loud sobs. BAINES kneels in

front of her shaking her.

BAINES stops shaking her, she scrambles away and out the door. BAINES

chases after her.

Sc 131EXT     BAINES     DUSK     Sc 131

FLORA screams as he catches her.

HIRA takes the quivering FLORA in her arms.

BAINES notices the blood on FLORA'S dress, he touches it, she shys

away.

Sc 132EXT     STEWARD'S HUT     NIGHT     Sc 132

STEWART walks outside his hut disconsolate.

Sc 133INT     STEWART'S HUT     NIGHT     Sc 133

STEWART enters ADA's room with a lamp. He puts it down beside her on

the table. He studies her pale face and dry lips. ADA's eyes flicker

open.

STEWART looks at ADA.

ADA opens her eyes and looks at STEWART. It is evident she hears

nothing and has understood nothing, she is struggling with pain. Her

face grimaces and she groans.

STEWART sings two lines of an English love ballad to ADA.

Her forehead is damp with fever. She thrashes at the blankets. STEWART

pulls them off to cool her. He feels her brow.

Her nightgown is damp with sweat and clings to her body. STEWART

reaches out to adjust her gown, his hand touches her leg and he holds

it there, feeling a tingle of pleasure, that grows and builds the

longer his hand remains.

His hand begins to move further and further up her leg, nudging the

nightgown higher and higher. He looks at her face. She is closed-eyed,

unconscious. STEWART'S face crinkles into a pained expression and all

his control melts into a drive to hold and extend this moment. He

brings his mouth to her leg and begins to kiss her knee, her thigh. A

new thought occurs to him, a terrible thought, but as he has phrased

the thought to himself, he cannot resist it. He glances at her face

still fevered and unconscious. Quietly, stealthily, he begins to undo

his belt buckle. He bends across her to gently separate her legs. As

he moves his body over her, he looks towards her and to his shame and

horror she is looking directly back at him, her eyes perfectly on his,

perfectly focused. Quietly STEWART moves back and pulls down her gown,

all the time keeping his eyes on her.

ADA's lips move slightly and STEWART turns suddenly as if he has heard

something. Slowly he turns back to ADA.

STEWART looks at ADA intently, moving closer to her bed, closer to ADA

his eyes locked on hers.

The sound of his own voice makes him blink. He watches her as if

listening to her speak in a voice that is so faint, and distant, that

only with great concentration and perseverance can he make it out. As

he watches her his face transforms; his eyes fill, his lips soften and

his eyebrows take on the exact expression of her own.

The kerosene lamp burns fitfully, fluttering a light pulse across

their faces. STEWART moves closer to ADA. Outside a wind bangs the

iron roof and rubs branches against each other making a high-pitched

see-saw sound. He leans closer still.

Sc 134EXT     STEWARTS     NIGHT     Sc 134

STEWART carrying a candle in a glass box makes his way through ghostly

tree stumps. In his other arm he has his gun.

Sc 135EXT/INT     BAINES'     NIGHT     Sc 135

At BAINES' hut STEWART steps over the curled figure of HIRA sleeping

on the verandah and walks through the hut towards the bedroom where a

lit candle flickers.

Sc 136INT     BAINES' BEDROOMNIGHT     Sc 136

In the bed lies FLORA wrapped in a blanket with BAINES beside her, axe

in hand, both fast asleep. STEWART nudges BAINES awake with the butt

of his rifle prodding him under the chin. BAINES wakes rudely with a

start, frozen by the sight of STEWART and his rifle.

BAINES obeys, careful not to disturb the sleeping child. STEWART sits

near the bed on a box, resting his gun across his knee, his face is

glowing, he looks closely at BAINES, examining him.

STEWART laughs.

BAINES watches him stiffly, disconcerted, unable to read STEWART'S

strange mood. STEWART stares back at him.

STEWART nods.

BAINES shakes his head.

STEWART looks up at the ceiling as if reciting something he has learnt

by heart and means to repeat exactly as he heard it.

BAINES recovering himself eyes STEWART angrily.

STEWART does not answer. Finally be looks up, his eyes full with

tears.

FLORA moves and turns in her sleep. The two men watch. Her brow frowns

then smoothes. Her eyelids roll as her eyes dart back and forth in

dream.

Sc 137EXT     STREAM NEAR BAINES'DAY     Sc 137

HIRA washes out the mud from FLORA's dress and angel wings in a bush

stream.

Sc 138INT/EXT     STEWART'S          DAY     Sc 138

ADA's trunks are delivered outside STEWART'S hut by AUNT MORAG and her

girls. ADA is led from STEWART'S hut by NESSIE. She wears a black

dress and her arm is tied in a white sling. The light outside makes

her blink. NESSIE smoothes her hair behind her shoulders. FLORA

timidly peeps at her mother from behind BAINES.

Sc 139EXT     BUSH ON WAY TO BEACHDAY     Sc 139

The piano is carried on ahead while in the secrecy of the bush BAINES

kisses ADA passionately. She looks back at him worried.

Sc 140EXT     STEWART'S HTJT     DAY     Sc 140

STEWART is fencing his new land. Suddenly be looks off in to the far

distance.

Sc 141EXT     BEACH               DAY     Sc 141

On the beach ADA sits looking out to sea while FLORA plaits her hair

in one thick braid behind her back. She places the bonnet carefully on

top At the sea edge in front of them the piano is being loaded on the

canoe.

Sc 142EXT     BEACH               DAY     Sc 142

HIRA and BAINES are next to each other by the canoe. HIRA is looking

at ADA,

Sc 143EXT     AT SEA/BEACH     DAY     Sc 143

The sea is choppy and the piano is difficult to steady in the canoe.

BAINES helps the rigging of the piano, thick rope ends coil under the

women's feet. HIRA is left on the shore with one child and two other

MAORI people.

Tears run openly down her big sad face as she sings her farewell to

BAINES.

SCENE 144 IS NOW COMBINED WITH SCENE 143

SCENE 144 DELETED

Sc 145EXT     AT SEA/BEACHDAY     Sc 145

The canoe has paddled away from the shore. FLORA leans over the edge

of the canoe, her mouth open, her hair held back by BAINES.

BAINES rubs her back. FLORA straightens up.

They retake their seats, FLORA's back to the piano, while BAINES sits

next to ADA. He tenderly takes her good hand. ADA removes hers and

signs to FLORA who looks at her mother then BAINES amazed.

ADA signs again.

ADA mimes directly to BAINES, "PUSH IT OVER". Her determination is

increasing.

(softly, urgently) Please, Ada,

you will regret it. It's your

piano, I want you to have it.

But ADA does not listen, she is adamant and begins to untie the ropes.

The canoe is unbalancing as ADA struggles with the ropes.

ADA sits, pleased. Her eyes glow and her face is now alive.

BAINES speaks to the MAORIS who stop paddling and together they loosen

the ropes securing the piano to the canoe.

As they maneuver the piano to the edge ADA Jocks into the water. She

puts her hand into the sea and moves it back and forth.

The piano is carefully lowered and with a heave topples over. As the

piano splashes into the sea, the loose ropes speed their way after it.

ADA watches them snake past her feet and then out of a fatal

curiosity, odd and undisciplined, she steps into a loop.

The rope tightens and grips her foot so that she is snatched into the

sea, and pulled by the piano down through the cold water.

Sc 146INT     SEA NEAR BEACH     DAY     Sc 146

Bubbles tumble from her mouth. Down she falls, on and on. her eyes are

open, her clothes twisting about her. The MAORIS diving after her

cannot reach her in these depths. ADA begins to struggle. She kicks at

the rope, but it holds tight around her boot. She kicks hard again and

then with her other foot, levers herself free from her shoe. The piano

and her shoe continue their fall while ADA floats above, suspended in

the deep water, then suddenly her body awakes and fights, struggling

upwards to the surface.

Sc 147 EXT     AT SEA BEACH     DAY     Sc 147

As ADA breaks the surface her VOICE OVER begins:

ADA coughing and spluttering is pulled on to the canoe. She is wrapped

in jackets and blankets.

Sc 148INT     SEA NEAR BEACH     DAY     Sc 148

Underwater we see the canoe bottom, its oars dipping the surface

Sc 149INT     ADA'S NELSON DRAWING ROOM     DUSK     Sc 149

ADA's hands move across the piano keys, her metal finger shines in the

dull light.

DISSOLVE TO:

Sc 150INT     ADA'S NELSON DRAWING ROOM     NIGHT     Sc 150

ADA paces up and down the small drawing room. There are no lights on

only  a dim blue evening wash. Over her head she has a dark cloth, her

voice makes low guttural sounds as it repeats the vowels.

DISSOLVE TO:

Sc 151INT     SEA BED NEAR BEACH     DAY     Sc 151

ADA's piano on the seabed, its lid fallen away. Above floats ADA, her

hair and arms stretched out in a gesture of surrender, her body slowly

turning on the end of the rope. The seaweed's rust coloured fronds

reach out to touch her.

THERE IS A SILENCE WHERE HATH BEEN NO SOUND

THERE IS A SILENCE WHERE NO SOUND MAY BE

IN THE COLD GRAVE, UNDER THE DEEP DEEP SEA.

(Hood)

NOTES AND EXTRA DIALOGUE

1.

Sc 10 SEAMAN'S DISCUSSION

The wind and the low manner of their speaking makes it impossible to

hear the exact nature of the discussion.

-'Tis a dead shore, a dead shore

-Leave her here, it's what she wanted.

-A pox on you!

-Ay very nice, leave her and be lynched for the pleasure.

-Do what you like, I'm off this shore

ETC.

2.

Sc 12 ART DEPARTMENT NOTE

ADA's finger is seen INSIDE the dark crate sounding a few notes

3.

Sc 15 TRANSLATION NOTE

(i) With the MAORI language dialogue of BAINES and the MAORI PEOPLE,

the general scheme is that only when necessary to sense or humour will

subtitled translation be given. However for the benfit of its readers

this script will translate everything noting what will and won't be

subtitled.

(ii)EXTRA MAORI DIALOGUE  SC 15

Awe!

(What wag that?)

-He Kehua?

(Is it a ghost)

(iii)Many of the MAORIS have coughs, running noses and sores.

(They have no immunity to European diseases.)

(iv)MAORI NAMES

MEN

TnTame

VitoHotu

HonePara

TipiKahu (boy)

WOMEN

TaiAni

4.

Sc 19

(i)BACKGROUND DIALOGUE FOR BEGINNING OF SCENE

He ahu te rarurarti

(what happened?)

I konei tonu, ka moe te koroua nei.

(He just decided to go to sleep)

(ii)BACKGROUND DIALOGUE FOR END OF SCENE

Taiho. Kei muri pea inga rakan nei. Auc!

Tino matatoru konei.

Me haere ake ano an ki runga.

(Hold on maybe behind this clump. Gee the

undergrowth is thick here. I'll come up again.)

Kahore ne huarahi - kahorene tutae.

(No track, no shit)

5.

Sc 29ADA's piano piece duration approximately 90 sees.

6.

Sc 30Duet 20-30 sees

7.

Sc 33FLORA's singing 20 sees

8.

Sc 34HENI/MARY phrasing of National Anthem

HENI/MARY

Got safe ah gayshy Quin

Long hf a gayshy Quin

Oat shayf a Quin

Shendab Wikitoria

Har - py en a Clohria

Long to rain ourush

Got Safe ah Quin

9.

Sc 37 TRANSLATION NOTE:

Who is it that rumbles within?

Is it Ruaumoko, is it Ruaurnoko?

Jab, smash, jab, smash

Jab, smash, jab, smash

The Taniwha, the Taniwba.

That is within ... He!

10.

Sc 65  The mud around the School Hall is so deep that a labyrinths of

planks is setup to avoid it.

11.

Sc 87 Extra dialogue

MAORI PIANO CARRIERS

Tahi Patene ruapuri patene

Tekan patene ornatekau pwari patene

(One button, two bloody buttons.

Ten buttons, twenty bloody buttons.)

'cia Whai tarau ano ra monga patene!

(We need pants for the buttons eh!)

He patene te kai, he patene te kai A popo ka tiko patene ahan patene

ma nga tangata katoa.

(Buttons for food, buttons for food. Buttons for everybody. By

tomorrow I'll be shitting buttons.)

12.

Sc 100 Approximately 60 sec. of ADA's piano playing.

