P R E T T Y   W O M A N

by Jonathan Lawton &  Stephen Metcalfe

--------------------------------------------------------------

EXT. A HOUSE IN THE HOLLYWOOD HILLS - NIGHT

The view of downtown Los Angeles from the enormous, ornate house

is extraordinary.  A small outdoor dinner party is in progress.

A MAGICIAN is entertaining guests.  Playing cards and coins

appear and disappear in his nimble hands.

INT. HOUSE STUDY - NIGHT

at the party.  Edward is a handsome, well groomed man of around

forty.  He looks tired; the kind of fatigue that can't be cured

by a night's sleep.

And indeed, down below, the magician pulls the coin from the

left pocket of the incredulous WOMAN's silk blazer.  More

laughter and applause.

The study is in keeping with the rest of the house.  Luxurious.

Everything the best.  WILLIAM STUCKEY, Edward's contemporary,

is a crafty looking lawyer who is the party host.  VANCE is an

investment banker.  His assistant JAKE, is a financial

researcher.  The other men are INVESTMENT BANKERS.  They are

in dark suits and power ties.  On the table are stacks of

documents and folders, the name "KROSS INDUSTRIES" is prominent

on many of the folders.

Edward turns from the window.  He hasn't miss a thing.  All

eyes are on him.

The bankers speechlessly stare at him.

He turns away.  The bankers look at one another.  They rise.

Silence as they exit.  When the door closes.  Stuckey explodes

with laughter.

The others stare at him, uncertain.  Stuckey laughs.  The

others follow suit.

Stuckey rises.  Edward ushers Vance and Jake toward the door.

Vance and Jake exit.

A BUTLER has entered the room.

Stuckey exits the room as Edward crosses to the telephone.

INT. HOUSE - STAIRWAY - NIGHT

Edward descends the long, curved stairway.  He has Vance in

tow.

The PEOPLE talking and drinking on the stairway gravitate

toward Edward.

He deftly keeps making his way through the crowd.

INT. HOUSE - THE DOWNSTAIRS HALL - NIGHT

Stuckey is sipping champagne and talking to a beautiful

WOMAN in a tight sheath of an evening dress.  An elegant woman

the shoulder and he turns, startled.

Stuckey looks up to see Edward moving quickly toward the door.

Stuckey abruptly leaves the two woman together to follow Edward.

EXT. THE HOUSE - NIGHT

Edward comes out of the house.  Jags, a limo with waiting

DRIVER and two BMW's pack the circular driveway behind a black

Ferrari.  The limo driver leaps to attention at the sight of

Edward.  Edward stands, making an obvious effort to keep his

impatience under control.  Stuckey comes out of the house and

down the walk.

Stuckey gropes uncertainly in his pocket for keys.

Edward grabs the keys out of Stuckey's hand.  He crosses to a

black Ferrari and gets in.

Edward starts the car.

The car lurches forward with a squeal of wheels and promptly

stalls.

With a squeal of tires, the Ferrari bucks out of the driveway

and... stalls again.

Edward starts it again and heads uncertainly uphill.  Stuckey

watching, throws up his hands.

CREDITS BEGIN AS IN A SERIES OF CROSSCUTS:

EXT. HOLLYWOOD HILLS - NIGHT

The Ferrari, moving fast through the Hollywood Hills, passes

large, beautiful homes... Edward shifts, grinding gears...

EXT. HOLLYWOOD HILLS - NIGHT

The Ferrari comes to a red light and pulls up next to a Dodge Colt.

The GIRL in the Colt looks at Edward and his car admiringly.

Edward feeling confident now, revs the engine.  The light turns

green.  Edward immediately stalls the Ferrari.  The Colt leaves

him in the dust.

INT. FERRARI - NIGHT

Edward drives.  He blinks, shakes his head as if trying to rid

himself of his own tired thoughts.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD HILLS - NIGHT

The Ferrari comes to the intersection of OUTPOST and FRANKLIN,

stops.  Edward gets out of the car.  He looks at the street

signs.  He has no idea where he is.  He signs.  He gets back

in the car and takes off on Franklin heading East.

EXT. A SIDE STREET IN HOLLYWOOD - NIGHT

A crumbling old apartment building.  Dark alley ways, deserted

parking lot.

The Ferrari -- blink and you miss it -- motors past the building,

looking very out of place on the street.

PANNING UP  A building facade of lit windows and metal fire

escape.  One window in particular.  A GIRL stands there in a

short kimono, looking down.  And then she turns away.

INT.  VIVIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A SERIES OF SHOTS to see her dressing.

INT.  VIVIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

VIVIAN turns and stares at herself in a grainy, cracked bedroom

mirror.  She is twenty years old and a prostitute.  Make-up

applied to give her a hard, older look doesn't quite succeed.

She'd be innocently beautiful without it.  She is wearing tiny

shorts, a tight tube top, thigh high boots.  She stares at

herself, not really liking what she sees.  A moment.  She signs,

turns off the light and walks out of the bedroom.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING HALLWAY - NIGHT

Faded, peeling walls.  Thread bare, dirty carpet.  Vivian locks

the apartment door behind her and starts down the dim hallway.

A door suddenly opens, startling her.  An unshaved, enormously

pot bellied MAN in a stained t-shirt stares at Vivian with pig

eyes.

Vivian turns some "tough" on him.

Vivian hurries at a run back down the hallway.

INT. VIVIAN'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN

Vivian pulls a coffee can off a shelf.  She pulls off the top.

It's empty.  She tosses the can away, starts for the door.  She

opens it.

INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Down the hallway, the landlord is standing in front of his open

doorway, talking to a FAT WOMAN.  They both glance up.

Vivian quickly closes the door.  She doesn't want to deal with

them.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Vivian comes off the fire escape onto the sidewalk.  She hurried

away.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - NIGHT

Vivian walks along, urgently looking for something... someone.

A BABBLING STREET-TYPE goes by happily talking to himself.

He wears an "I Love Hollywood" t-shirt.

Vivian passes TOURISTS but doesn't notice them any more than

she pays attention to the VAGRANT she passes further on, huddle

in a doorway.

A LONG-HAIRED KID on a SKATEBOARD goes by dropping off little

bags to various STREET-TYPES.

A BARKER-TYPE stands in front of a photo store urging tourists

to come in and take a photo with a cardboard cut-out of a movie

star.  Some go in.

Vivian hurries past a group of rubbernecking JAPANESE TOURISTS.

A BLACK PROSTITUTE in a mini skirt strolls toward her.  A car

passes.  The DRIVER stares at Vivian with interest.  She ignores

him.  The black prostitute approaches the car.

The Driver looks her over.  The Black Prostitute gets in the

car and it drives away.

A GROUP OF MEN, mostly drug dealers, hang out at an all night

coffee shop.  They WHISTLE and make obscene gestures and SOUNDS

as Vivian hurries by.  She ignores them and goes next door into

a falafel stand.  Half a dozen PEOPLE sit at dirty tables inside.

INT. FALAFEL STAND - NIGHT

Behind the counter are a MAN and a WOMAN, Vietnamese cooks

frying food, trying to ignore the unsavory crowd camped in the

shop.

Both of them nod and smile at Vivian.  Vivian exits.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - NIGHT

Skateboard zips by a GROUP.  We SEE a police car parked at the

entrance to an alcove.  Also, an ambulance.  The bubblegum

lights are going.  A CROWD has gathered.  The happy man with

the "I Love Hollywood" t-shirt and a POLICE OFFICER are engaged

in tense conversation.

Vivian rushes up to join the outskirts of the crowd as the body

of a YOUNG GIRL is pulled out of an open dumpster and carried

towards the waiting ambulance.  For a moment Vivian thinks

it's... no, Vivian turns grimly away.

Vivian surveys the dark street.  And suddenly sees who's she's

looking for.  Walks.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - WIG SHOP - NIGHT

We SEE a young, tough-looking MAN and WOMAN trying on wigs.

The STOREKEEPER is a man wearing a dress and wild wig.  The

girl, KIT, is around 18, is dark haired and thin.  The young

man, CARLOS, has his arm sloppily draped across Kit's shoulder.

They giggle about something, both obviously high.  Kit looks

up, bleary-eyed.  She stops.  Vivian is standing in front of

her.

Carlos attempts to put an arm around Vivian's shoulders.

Vivian throws him off.

Skateboard appears suddenly, blocking Vivian and Kit's path.

Carlos glares at her.  He looks down toward the lights of the

cop cars.  One of the POLICEMEN looks towards them, curiously.

Vivian waves at the cop.

Vivian grabs Kit by the arm and pulls her across the Boulevard.

INT. FALAFEL STAND - NIGHT

Vivian and Kit sit at a table sipping tea.  Vivian is still

mad at her.

Vivian looks like she wants to weep.  Or scream.  She does

neither.  She slowly nods.  Kit's sorry she said that.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - NIGHT

Edward's Ferrari turns onto Hollywood Blvd., finally out of

the Hollywood Hills.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - NIGHT

Vivian and Kit are out trying to hustle John's in passing cars.

Vivian strikes a sexy pose at the bus stop.  Kit is talking to

another prostitute, RACHEL.

Rachel walks off.

They keep hustling.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - ANGLE ON FERRARI - NIGHT

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - BACK TO SCENE - NIGHT

The Ferrari goes by and stops.

Kit gives Vivian a quick hug.

And then Kit is off, moving quickly away.  Vivian turns.  She

stares at the Ferrari, loathing it and all it represents.  And

then it's as if Vivian turns a switch.  She fluffs her mane of

hair, throws her shoulders back, thrusting her breasts out and

sashays towards the car, a sexy, friendly smile on her face.

In the driver's seat of the Ferrari, Edward is looking furious

and distracted.  Vivian leans over the passenger window.

Edward takes a good look at her.

He pulls out his money clip.

Vivian suddenly freezes.  On the sidewalk up ahead, Carlos and

Skateboard.  Carlos flashes an evil, menacing grin.  He motions

to Skateboard, they start forward.

Vivian pulls open the door of the car and jumps in.

Edward stares at her.  She smiles sweetly.

The Ferrari pulls away, passing Carlos on the sidewalk.

INT. FERRARI - MOVING - NIGHT

He smiles.  Vivian smiles back.

Vivian reaches out, turns on the heat.

Edward glances over, amused.  It hits him that she really is

an attractive girl.

EXT. SANTA MONICA BLVD. - NIGHT

The Ferrari glides along a seedy, West Hollywood section of

Santa Monica.

INT. FERRARI - MOVING - NIGHT

Vivian unconsciously bites her fingernails.

But she puts her hands in her lap.  She looks out the window.

She's safe from Carlos.

Edward pulls the Ferrari to the curb and stops.

She reaches across the seat.  Her hand goes in his lap.

Vivian starts to get out of the car.

A moment.  Vivian's sexy smile comes on.

Edward gets out of the car.  Vivian looks at him confused.

Vivian moves around the car.

They get in the car.

INT. FERRARI - NIGHT

She starts the car, revs it.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - NIGHT

The Ferrari peels out, fishtails madly and SCREAMS up the

street.

EXT. REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - NIGHT

Thousands of tiny white lights sparkle along the walls of the

Regent Beverly Wilshire Hotel.  Bright flags are illuminated

by carefully placed spotlights.  The Ferrari SCREAMS into the

driveway and comes to a jarring stop by the front door.

INT. FERRARI - NIGHT

Edward takes a moment to get his breath.  He gestures toward

the back.

INT. REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

As they walk in, Vivian is tying the trenchcoat.

She looks up.  She stops in her tracks.  The lobby is bright

and spacious, filled with thick carved wood paneling.  Even at

this hour there is a great deal of activity.  MEN in business

suits and WOMEN in furs and jewels are passing by.  Vivian's

face quickly conceals the sudden awe she feels at the sight of

all this luxury.  Vivian matter of factly reaches out and takes

Edward's arm.

Edward guides them across the lobby.  They reach the elevators

and go inside.

INT. HOTEL - ELEVATOR - NIGHT

The young ELEVATOR OPERATOR is dressed in a clean red uniform

that seems just a bit too tight.  As the elevator doors close

he nods toward Edward.

She sees the operator glancing at her.

INT. HOTEL - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Edward and Vivian come out of the elevator into a hallway

leading to a single doorway with two heavy wood doors.  Edward

pulls out his key and unlocks the doors.  With a gentle push

the door slide open in unison.  Edward gestures to Vivian to

go inside.  She does.  Edward closes the doors behind her.

INT. HOTEL - PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

As Vivian steps into the room she has the sensation of falling

off the top of the building.  In front of her is a sunken living

room with massive windows revealing the sparkling lights of the

city below.  For the first time, she is speechless.  Edward

closes the door and walks past her down the steps to the living

room.  Edward picks up a phone.  Vivian checks out the room.

Vivian makes her way down the steps to the living room.  She

stares at the view.

Vivian is impressed but she's not going to admit it.

Edward smiles.  He sits down in a comfortable chair and leans

back.  Vivian looks at him.

He rises.  Takes out his wallet.  Standing over her, he drops

THREE crisp, new hundred dollar bills in Vivian's lap.  She

picks up the bills, stares at them, trying not to be impressed.

She puts the money in her jacket.  She realizes Edward is

standing over her as if waiting.

She leans forward, reaches out to unzip his pants.  He abruptly

turns away.

Edward almost smiles.  He sits across from her again.

A chime goes off to indicate there's someone at the door.

He starts to sit up.  Vivian motions for him to stay put.

Edward sits back down.  Vivian waltzes up the steps and opens

the front door.  A WAITER comes into the room with a silver

cart; on it is a bucket of champagne and a covered bowl.

The Waiter carries it down the steps and sets it in the middle

of the living room.  He turns and heads back up the stairs and

pauses near Vivian, staring.  Vivian stares back at him.

The Waiter glances away uncomfortably and exits.  Vivian closes

the door behind him.  Vivian marches back down the stairs.

Edward crosses to the silver stand.  Vivian watches with

interest as he twirls the champagne bottle in the ice bucket.

Edward lifts the bottle out.  He deftly pops the cork on the

bottle without losing a drop of champagne.

Edward pours the champagne into a single long stemmed glass and

hands one to Vivian.

He drinks, nods approvingly.

Edward laughs softly.  She sips it.  To her surprise, really

likes it.  Edward lifts a lid on a silver bowl to reveal a dozen

enormous strawberries.

A moment.  She slowly eats a strawberry.  The juice of it stains

her lips.  Her eyes are like smoke as she takes a sensuous sip

of champagne, licks away the stain of the strawberry.  His eyes

haven't left her.

Her mouth is so wet and inviting... he leans closer...

He's about to kiss her...

He freezes.  She pulls his head down to her breast.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Edward and Vivian on the bed.  He is on his back, his shoulder

and head resting against the headboard.  She is astride him,

hands resting on his chest, rocking... in control, confident...

very much liking the fire she's kindled in his eyes.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - CLOSE ANGLE ON THEIR FACES - NIGHT

Smiling, Vivian reaches behind her, touching him.  He tries not

to groan.  She's moving faster now.  Edward suddenly pulls her

violently to him, he rolls her over...

INT. PENTHOUSE BATHROOM - SHOWER - NIGHT

A heavy spray of water comes down upon Edward.  He stands there

quietly letting it wash over him.  He turns off the shower,

steps out of the stall, picks up a towel and dries himself.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Edward stares.  His expensive clothes are on the floor,

haphazardly dropped everywhere.  Vivian's clothes, as tattered

as they are, are neatly folded and piled on a chair.  The

incongruity of it touches Edward in a sad way.  He looks toward

the bed.  Vivian is fast asleep.  Her heavy makeup has long since

been rubbed off.  Asleep, her wary, smart-ass attitude is gone.

She looks like a sweet, gentle girl.  He stares at her a moment

longer.  He turns, goes into the living room.  Vivian opens her

eyes.  Through the open door she sees Edward sitting in a living

room chair.  He is reading contracts.

EXT. REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - MORNING

The sun is coming up as HOTEL EMPLOYEE hoses down the sidewalk

in front of the hotel.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - MORNING

A WOMAN EMPLOYEE is vacuuming the lobby.  She sees something

and pauses.  She pulls a dead leaf from one of the potted

plants.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - MORNING

The elevator doors open and A WAITER rolls a cart out into the

hallway.  He takes it to the doors of the penthouse.  He rings

the bell.

INT. PENTHOUSE LIVING ROOM - MORNING

The Waiter wheels in a table of food, coffee, champagne and

orange juice.  Edward dressed in suit pants, white shirt and

suspenders, stands in the living room talking into a cordless

phone.  Edward points the Waiter to the dining table.

INT. STUCKEY'S HOUSE - MORNING - INTERCUT

William Stuckey is behind his desk.

INT. PENTHOUSE LIVING ROOM - MORNING

The Waiter returns.  Edward signs the bill.  The Waiter exits.

Edward hangs up.  He pours a glass of orange juice and takes

a sip, thinking.  Something makes him turn.  Vivian, wearing

a monogrammed hotel terry robe, is standing uncertainly in the

bedroom doorway.

She's hungry and the breakfast looks great.

Edward sits.  Waits.  Vivian sits across from him.  Edward

serves them breakfast.

She looks at him sharply, sees that he means no offense,

relaxes.

They share a small smile.  They eat.

A moment.  Edward chuckles.  Vivian grins.

He almost smiles.  She almost smiles back.

He nods.  This time Vivian is impressed.

Edward is oddly pleased at her reaction.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - DAY

The closet door is open.  Edward reaches for a tie.  In the

closet are about a dozen expensive looking suits, shirts, shoes,

etc.  She follows him in.

She undoes his knot and starts over.

Vivian turns and heads toward the bathroom.  He follows her

into the bathroom.

INT. PENTHOUSE BATHROOM - DAY

Vivian turns on the water in the tub.  It fills the tub in a

torrential rush.

The phone on the marbled bathroom wall suddenly rings.  Edward

reaches for it.

INT.  STUCKEY'S HOUSE - INTERCUT

Stuckey is walking around his desk.

INT. PENTHOUSE BATHROOM - DAY

Vivian stares curiously at the bidet.

She turns it on.  The water hits her in the face.

There are lotions and shampoos and bubblebaths on the edge of

the tub.  Vivian regards them like a kid in a candy shop.

Edward watches as Vivian smells some bubble bath.  She smiles.

Her eyes ask Edward if it's okay to...?  He nods.

Vivian pours the bubblebath into the swirling water.  There's

something about the look on her face... the way she bites her

lower lip... curious, sensual...

Edward hangs up the phone as Vivian curiously turns on the

television.  The sound blares.  She fumbles to turn it down.

Edward reaches over and turns it off.

She look at him like he isn't speaking English.

It takes Vivian a moment to respond.

Edward nods.  Vivian hesitates... it's got to be enough to

really change things... She shoots for the moon again.

And then, quickly getting herself back together, she flips on

the sexy smile.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - MORNING

Edward comes out into the bedroom.  Vivian quickly follows.

They move through the bedroom into the living room.

He reaches into his pocket for a money clip.  He peels off

bills.  He hands the cash to Vivian.

Vivian's eyes go wide at the amount of money.

INT. PENTHOUSE ENTRANCE WAY - DAY

They're at the front door.

Edward opens the door, he starts to exit.  He turns back.

The door closes in her face.

INT. OUTSIDE THE PENTHOUSE DOOR - DAY

Edward smiles to himself.

INT. PENTHOUSE BATHROOM - DAY

Vivian is stretched out in the hot bubble bath.  The TV is on.

She clicks the remote control in her hand.

She lies back into the soapy water and disappears.  She suddenly

pops back up, laughing.

A thought occurs to her.  She reaches for the cordless phone.

She dials.  She waits.  She is about to disconnect when the

phone is answered.

That hurts.  Perhaps because Vivian's been wondering the same

thing.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Vivian comes out of the elevator and crosses the lobby.  She

is back in her hooker clothes.  She leaves an envelope at the

front desk.

MR. THOMAS, the prim, middle-aged hotel manager, steps out from

his office.  He stares in surprise and displeasure as he sees

Vivian exit out the front door.  Vivian doesn't notice the odd

stares she gets from two well-dressed MIDDLE-AGED WOMEN who are

just entering.

EXT. RODEO DRIVE - DAY

Vivian is looking wide-eyed and delighted and yes, more than

a bit overwhelmed.  She passes store windows... and MORE STORE

WINDOWS... and still MORE STORE WINDOWS.  Each display is more

beautiful and expensive than the one before.

Vivian is also aware that she is getting odd looks.  From

PASSERBY'S.  Two beautiful dressed GIRLS her own age look at

her, turn away and giggle.  The uniformed GUARDS that stand at

attention in front of many of the stores, stare at her

suspiciously.

Feeling more and more uncomfortable, Vivian comes to a posh

woman's boutique.  She hesitates for a moment.  She enters.

INT. BOUTIQUE - DAY

Vivian is no sooner in the door than she is subject to the

disapproving stare of a SALESWOMAN standing behind the counter.

Vivian tiptoes through the shop as if it was filled with

delicate glass objects.  She cautiously examines a dress.  The

Saleswoman quickly comes around the counter and approaches her.

Vivian eyes the Saleswoman, puzzled at her tone.  She examines

a dress.

Vivian's body tenses as she stares at the Saleswoman.

Vivian is speechless.  She turns and stomps toward the door.

She stops and spins around staring at the Saleswoman.  Vivian

flips her off.  She throws the door open and storms outside.

The Saleswoman calmly strolls back to her counter and returns

to her place.

EXT. RODEO DRIVE - DAY

Vivian comes out onto the street and stands, lost.  She takes

a deep breath, trying to control herself.  Two WOMEN, in elegant

designer outfits, stroll by, eyeing Vivian as if she were a

freak.  Vivian suddenly feels naked.  She turns and hurries

away.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Vivian enters the lobby, upset, nervous and paranoid.  She feels

an emptiness in her stomach at the sight of all the luxury

around her.  She hurries toward the elevators.

At the front desk, Mr. Thomas, once again spots her.  He crosses

the lobby and deftly cuts her off from the elevator.

Vivian stops, practically shaking with terror.

Vivian's face is filled with confusion.  She doesn't know his

name.  The elevator doors open behind them.  She spots the

Operator.

Mr. Thomas turns and eyes the Operator curiously.  The Operator

looks back at them innocently.  With a smooth gesture Mr. Thomas

waves the Operator over.

The Operator nods.

Mr. Thomas waves the Operator away.

He takes Vivian gently but firmly by the arm and leads her off.

INT. HOTEL OFFICE - DAY

In a richly furnished office, Mr. Thomas places Vivian in a

comfortable chair and then leans against the edge of his desk.

Vivian says nothing.

Vivian finds herself nodding.

Vivian bites her lower lip, nods.

Vivian's face screws up as she tries hard not to cry.

She can't help it, the tears come.  Vivian pulls out the money

Edward gave her.  She drops it on the desk.  It's a moist-

looking wad now.

She can't go on.  Mr. Thomas politely glances at the money.

He unfolds it, smoothes it and hands it back to her.  He sighs.

He picks up the phone.  He dials.

Vivian is staring at him.

He glances at Vivian.  With those simple words, he'd made her

feel better.

He sets the phone down and smiles patronizingly at Vivian.

She smiles mischievously.

EXT. FORT OF LOS ANGELES - DAY

A sleek corporate helicopter flies over the port.

EXT. BUILDING ROOFTOP - DAY

Edward, Vance, Stuckey and Jake walk toward the building's

edge.  They look out over the empty shipyard as Vance describes

it.

Edward points toward one of the edges of the shipyard.

Vance pulls out a notebook.

Vance has found what he was looking for in his notebook.

He turns away.  The other follow Edward back toward the

stairs.

INT. SAKS - SECOND FLOOR - DAY

The elevator opens and Vivian walks out and surveys the room

nervously.  She walks toward the women's clothing section.

BRIDGET, a large friendly woman, spots her and quickly

approaches.

Vivian nods.

She steps back, regards Vivian with a professional eye.

Bridget leads Vivian towards the racks of clothes.  She pulls

out a dress.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - LATE AFTERNOON

Mr. Thomas is behind the desk.  He looks up.  Vivian is standing

there, a happy look on her face.  She holds up a garment bag.

Mr. Thomas tries not to wince at the familiarity.

She smiles at him.  He watches as Vivian turns and walks toward

the elevator.  The provocative way her hips move just naturally

attracts the attention of a MALE PASSERBY.  And the white gloved

ELEVATOR MAN literally leaps to press the elevator button for

Vivian who rewards him with a happy smile.  Mr. Thomas sighs.

INT. PENTHOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

The phone is ringing Vivian enters.  She hurries to pick it up.

The phone keeps ringing -- it has more than one line.  Vivian

frantically punches buttons.

INT. STUCKEY'S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON - INTERCUT

Edward is in a private office.

Vivian slowly sets the phone down.  The phone rings again.

Vivian, very carefully, punches the flashing button and picks

it up.

Edward hangs up.  He smiles to himself.

Vivian bites her fingernails, looking nervous.  The doorbell

RINGS.  Vivian looks up, startled.  She rises, moves to answer

it.

It's the Spanish MAID.  She nods politely at Vivian.

The Maid points to her hotel badge, trying to explain.

The Maid enters.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

The Maid turns down the bedspread.

Consuelo shrugs.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - LATE AFTERNOON

Mr. Thomas is still behind the desk, working when a soft voice

startles him.

He looks up.  He sighs.  Vivian still hasn't changed.

She turns away.

Vivian turns abruptly back, a horrified look on her face.

INT. HOTEL DINING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

CLOSE ANGLE - PLACESETTING

An elegant formal placesetting complete with a myriad of

different size forks, spoons, stacked china plates and crystal

glassware.

ANGLE ON MR. THOMAS AND VIVIAN

sit across from one another at a fully set table.

Mr. Thomas swallows his exasperation.

WE PULL BACK from their table to reveal the cavernous, empty

banquets room, each table is set and ready for the dinner

service.

INT. SALON - LATE AFTERNOON

Vivian sits in a salon chair.  The last customer, THANE, a

young man of about twenty with his long hair pulled back in a

pony tail, tilts her head one way and then another, eyeing her

professionally.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - EVENING

Edward enters and looks around the lobby.  No Vivian.  Annoyed.

Edward crosses to a house phone and picks it up.  He's about

to dial when:

Edward looks at him blankly.

Edward's eyes narrow.  He hangs up the phone.

Mr. Thomas looks uncomfortable.

He starts towards the lounge.

His tone stops Edward in his tracks.

And off he goes, leaving Edward to wonder what the hell

transpired during the afternoon.

INT. HOTEL LOUNGE - NIGHT

Edward enters the lounge.  He looks around, not seeing Vivian.

And suddenly his eyes go back to... the beautiful girl with the

beautifully styled hair in the beautiful black cocktail dress

at the piano bar.  Edward tries to hide his surprise as Vivian

rises, moves elegantly towards him.  She smiles.

Such a beautiful woman deserves an apology and so, without

thinking:

She waits expectantly.  He holds out an arm.  She takes it.

INT. REX RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Vivian comes out of the ladies room.  She walks forward past

the MAITRE'D'S station.  She stops.  She takes a breath... and

then walks forward.

INT. REX - ANOTHER ANGLE - LOOKING DOWN

Vivian moves down a marble starircase, through the elegant

restaurant toward a far table.  Her beauty and natural grace

draw approving stares.  She is like a queen moving through a

ballroom.

At a secluded table, Edward sits in conversation with two men.

JAMES KROSS, in his early 70's, a bulky self-made millionaire

industrialist.  Sitting next to him is his son and second in

command, DAVID KROSS, a handsome man in his early thirties.

All of them rise as Vivian comes to the table.  David Kross

holds out Vivian's chair for her.  Surprised, she nods her

thanks.  In front of her is an enormous placesetting.  She

smiles down at the utensils, filled with confidence.

Waiters have placed a delicate salad down in front of each of

them.  Vivian proudly reaches for her salad fork.  But then she

sees that Kross has picked up the fork closest to his plate and

is digging into his salad with that.

Vivian looks to see what Edward will do.  He doesn't seem

interested in eating yet.  Neither does David Kross.  Feeling

a sudden panic, Vivian puts her fork down.

A moment.  The abruptness of the question takes Edward back for

a moment.  But then he almost smiles.

Kross and David look at each other.

Edward, thankfully, now reaches for his salad fork and begins

to eat.  Relieved, Vivian picks up hers.  They all eat for a

moment.

WAITERS approach, some to clear the salad plates, some to put

down the next course.  Vivian, thinking she's got to finish,

quickly stuffs her mouth with the rest of her salad.  She is

reluctant to let the Waiter take her fork.

Vivian can see that both father and son are stunned by this

news.

Escargot are put down in front of everyone.  Vivian stares at

them dubiously.  She picks up what she assumes is the next

"right" fork.  She picks up a snail.  The two do not fit.

Flustered, she doesn't know what to do.  No one else seems to

be eating.  And now a Waiter comes and places escargot forks

at each place.  Vivian picks it up with a sigh of relief.

Vivian stares at them, horrified.  She, like James and David

Kross, no longer seem interested in eating.  Edward eats with

pleasure.

Vivian struggles with her escargot.

Vivian suddenly ZINGS her snail across the table.  Everyone

looks to her.

Kross rises.

He rises.  He exits.

Edward is silent.

David looks at Vivian as if seeing her for the first time.

David Kross gets up and leaves.  Vivian and Edward sit in

silence.

Edward says nothing.  But Vivian can see she's hit a nerve.

A Waiter appears at the table.

INT. PENTHOUSE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Edward's face is pensive and thoughtful as he stares out of

the glass window down at the city lights.  He quickly drains

his champagne glass.  Vivian moves to stand next to him.

She refills his glass from the bottle.

He drinks.  Silence.

Edward laughs.

Vivian comes up behind him.  She begins to rub his shoulders.

A moment.  Edward is silent.  Turns him, unknots his tie,

unbuttons his collar.

Smiling, she softly kisses his throat.

She kissed his neck.  She fumbles with his belt.

She kisses his chest.

She starts to kneel down.  He stops her.  They stare at one

another for a moment.  He releases her.  She smiles.  She

starts to undress him.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - MORNING

Vivian is asleep.  She turns over, slowly waking.  Her hand

goes out to touch Edward and encounters nothing but empty bed.

Vivian comes awake with a sudden start.  She look around

momentarily frightened, not sure where she is.  Sighing with

relief, she lies back down.  She sees Edward's American Express

card on the pillow next to her.

Edward comes out of the bathroom and moves toward the bed.

He is tying his tie.  Vivian sits up and ties it for him.  He

smiles at her.

Edward sits on the bed.

He softly touches her, right between the eyes.

Edward looks at his watch.  Vivian covers it with her hand.

INT. BOUTIQUE - DAY

A beautiful, chic women's shop.  The haughty SALESGIRL

approaches Vivian near a rack of dresses.  Edward hovers in the

b.g.

The Salesgirl looks Vivian up and down.  A Pause.  Vivian gives

her "the stare" and straightens up.  We see the Salesgirl's

reaction change.

Vivian smiles and draws out Edward's American Express card.

The Salesgirl nods and quickly moves to a rack of dresses to

find Vivian's size.

INT. BOUTIQUE - DAY - IN A SERIES OF CUTS

Vivian tries on different clothes under Edward and the

Salesgirl's supervision.

Vivian comes happily out of the dressing room wearing a low

cut, spangled and fringed outfit.  Edward shakes his hand.  The

Salesgirl holds a classic tweed ensemble over Vivian's outfit.

Vivian scowls.

INT. BOUTIQUE - ANOTHER ANGLE

The Salesgirl shows Edward clothes by Ann Taylor.  He turns

to find Vivian happily holding up a tiny, low cut leather dress.

Edward shakes his head in mock disapproval.  Vivian scowls.

INT. BOUTIQUE - ANOTHER ANGLE - LATER

Vivian is wearing an elegant pastel dress.  Edward is standing

at the store's bar, watching and talking on the telephone.

INT.  STUCKEY'S OFFICE - DAY - INTERCUT WITH EDWARD

Stuckey and Vance are pouring over stock reports, talking to

Edward on the speaker phone.

Edward is watching Vivian.  She pulls the hem of her skirt up

to mid thigh.  She looks hopefully over to Edward.  Edward

shakes his head.

There is a sudden hesitation in Edward's eyes.  He watches as

Vivian tries on a hat.  She preens for him.  He smiles.

Edward hangs up and takes a long look at Vivian.  She moves

to him.

Vivian hugs him again.

EXT. RODEO DRIVE - DAY

Vivian walks along Rodeo Drive.  She looks lovely in the pink

dress and new, white shoes.  A pretty, white hat is the final

touch.  She carries a bag containing her old clothes.  She stops

at a trashcan and ceremonially throws the offending items away.

INT. TORIE STEELE BOUTIQUE - SHOPPING MONTAGE

We SEES Vivian in each department within the store with

different SALESPEOPLE.  She happily and confidently tries on

a variety of dresses, hats, shoes, accesarries, etc.

1)  Vivian is in a dressing stall.  She tosses a dress out

to a waiting SALESWOMAN.

2)  A SALESWOMAN holds a long, purple evening gown.

3)  Vivian is admiring a pair of beautiful suede dress pumps.

Her attention is drawn to the SALESMEN'S exotic hand-painted

tie.

4)  Vivian stands in front of an enormous tie rack with the

Salesman, a dozen wild, swirling designed ties are hanging over

his outstretched arm.  Vivian picks out the brightest one and

smiles.

EXT. RODEO DRIVE - DAY

Vivian's arms are filled with clothing boxes and bags.  She

feels like she owns the block.  A well-dressed MAN passes by,

smiling politely.  Vivian's nose lifts as she happily ignores

him.

Suddenly Vivian stops.  She's about to pass the shop she was

thrown out of.  Vivian takes a breath and enters the shop.

INT. BOUTIQUE - DAY

Vivian enters.  The moment she steps through the door, Vivian's

courage leaves her.

The saleswoman is waiting on a CUSTOMER.

Vivian musters her courage.  She takes a deep breath and starts

forward.

Both the saleswoman and her customer look up.  The saleswoman

smiles pleasantly.

Vivian slowly raises her middle finger.  The recognition starts

to dawn in the saleswoman's eyes.  Vivian's courage begins to

return.

And with that, Vivian turns and walks out.

The saleswoman is stunned.  A beat.  The customer thrusts the

dress into the saleswoman's arm as if offended by Vivian's

speech and leaves the store also.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Mr. Thomas looks up from the desk.  And stares.  Vivian and a

BELLHOP stroll through the hotel entrance and across the hotel

lobby to the elevator.  The bellhop's arms are packed with boxes

and shopping bags.  Mr. Thomas can't help it.  He smiles to

himself.

INT. PENTHOUSE LIVING ROOM - DAY

Vivian opens the front door for the Bellhop who carries in her

packages.  She motions for him to place them on the couch.  He

does.  Vivian happily tips him with a five dollar bill.  He

exits.  The door closes.

Vivian does a giddy spin and falls onto the couch.

INT. BROKERAGE HOUSE MEETING ROOM - DAY

Stuckey enters.  Edward is standing at the end of a long

meeting table.  He is serving himself coffee from a tray.

Edward just sips his coffee.

Edward is silent.  Stuckey is again surprised.

Edward hesitates.  Then:

INT. PENTHOUSE - EVENING

Edward enters.  He closes the door.  He turns.  And stops.  A

beautiful, candlelit, food laden table has been set up in the

middle of the room.  Champagne and wine chills in a bucket.

A fire burns in the fireplace.  Music is playing.

Edward turns.  And stares again.  Vivian stands in the bedroom

doorway.  She is wearing an exquisite silk dressing gown.  She

looks incredibly beautiful.

She opens the dressing gown.  What she has on underneath is

absolutely nothing.  Edward crosses to her.  Taking her in his

arms, he lifts her up and kisses her breasts.

INT. PENTHOUSE BATHROOM - NIGHT

The bathroom is lit by candles.  Vivian and Edward are in the

marble tub.  Vivian sits behind Edward.  She lazily washes his

shoulders and back with a large sponge.

Silence.

Vivian softly traces small patterns on Edward's shoulders with

a finger.

She gently rests her head on his back.

EXT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

PANNING BELLIES  People are sunbathing by the pool.

Overweight... lobster red... old and stretch-marked... fishy

white... and then gorgeous.  The gorgeous is Vivian.  She is

wearing a miniscule bikini and sunglasses.

She looks up.  A young WAITER, looking a little dry-mouthed at

the sight of her, is holding a telephone.

She hangs up.  She looks at the Waiter, confused.

EXT. THE LOS ANGELES EQUESTRIAN CENTER - LATE AFTERNOON

Horses and riders crash and careen on the playing field.  An

enthusiastic crowd cheers.

DOWN OFF THE EDGE OF THE FIELD

a tailgate party using Cadillacs and Rolls Royces is in

progress.  Horses and riders thunder by a crowd of very

well-dressed, successful-looking people -- celebrities, execs,

socialites, aficionados -- most of whom ignore the game.  They

are there to see and be seen much more than to watch a polo

match.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - LATER AFTERNOON

Vivian and Edward make their way towards the party.  Edward is

wearing his new tie.  Vivian is looking very chic and beautiful

in one of her new outfits.  Not that it's helping -- the place,

the people, the wealth -- everything here suddenly has her

overwhelmed.  She suddenly stops.

A VOICE calls out.

They turn.  William Stuckey is with a group of people.  He waves

them over.

Edward takes Vivian's arm and leads her forward.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - LATE AFTERNOON

Stuckey grins and shakes Edward's hand.

Vivian dislikes this guy on sight.  Dislikes the frosty looking

woman at his side.

Elizabeth Stuckey stretches her thin lips in a cold smile.

He moves quickly away.

She moves to greet someone else.  Vivian and Edward survey the

milling CROWD.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ON THE FIELD - LATE AFTERNOON

A goal is scored.

IN A SERIES OF CUTS

Edward watches and guides her, Vivian sips champagne and meets

and chats and wins over different PEOPLE.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANOTHER ANGLE - LATE AFTERNOON

A group of PEOPLE.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANOTHER ANGLE - LATE AFTERNOON

In another group of PEOPLE.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANOTHER ANGLE - LATE AFTERNOON

Edward and Elizabeth Stuckey watch Vivian laugh and chat with

a group of WOMEN.

Edward smiles enigmatically.  Taking an hors d'oeuvres off a

passing WAITERS's tray, he starts forward.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANOTHER ANGLE - LATE AFTERNOON

That makes Vivian think.  And then she smiles as she sees Edward

approaching.  Vivian moves to him.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ON THE FIELD - LATE AFTERNOON

IN A SERIES OF SHOTS TO MUSIC

The CROWD engages in sod stomping.  They drink champagne.  They

make a dance out of it.  They laugh.  Shoes get stuck in the

mud.  It's ludicrous -- these people in their suits and fancy

clothes, replacing divots and stepping over the horse shit.

In a corner of the field, grazing horses stare, seemingly in

disbelief.

Vivian is having a wonderful time.  And then, as she moves

towards the outside of the crowd she sees someone staring at

her from over among some of the riders and grazing horses.

David Kross smiles at Vivian.  She hesitates... and then she

crosses towards him.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANOTHER ANGLE - LATE AFTERNOON

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANOTHER ANGLE - LATE AFTERNOON

They approach the sweating mount.  David Kross caresses the

horses muzzle.

To Vivian's surprise, the question causes a pang inside.

Vivian is suddenly silent.  She looks away.

But something holds Vivian back, a feeling.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - IN THE CROWD - LATE AFTERNOON

William Stuckey turns... stops... stares.  He sees Vivian and

David Kross standing together.  He stares, his mind racing, and

anxious, angry look on his face.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - LATE AFTERNOON

Stuckey has Edward off to the side.  He is talking to him in

a low, earnest voice.

Edward's eyes narrow.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANGLE ON VIVIAN

Vivian turns away from the bar, now holding two glasses of

champagne.  She scans the crowd for Edward.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANGLE ON EDWARD AND STUCKEY

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANGLE ON VIVIAN

as she hear loud sudden LAUGHTER.  She turns.  She sees that

it's Stuckey laughing.  Smiling, Vivian starts towards them with

two glasses of champagne.

EXT. EQUESTRIAN CENTER - ANGLE ON STUCKEY AND EDWARD

Edward sees Vivian coming.

Edward turns.  He smiles gently as Vivian quietly approaches

and hands him his glass of champagne.

A group of BUSINESSMEN are standing a short distance away.

One of them calls out:

He moves to join the group of men.  Stuckey gives Vivian a

broad smile.

Vivian looks as if she's been struck.

Stuckey runs his hand up her arm.

He moves away.  Vivian turns.  Edward looks up from his

conversation, sees her looking at him.  He smiles, raises his

glass in a small toast.  A moment.  Vivian toasts him back.

INT. PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

They enter.  Edward switches on a light.  Vivian comes down the

steps into the room.  Edward follows after her.

As Edward touches her shoulder, Vivian suddenly spins and

explodes with anger.

Tears well in Vivian's eyes as she yells at him.

Edward looks guiltily away.

A tear falls from Vivian's eyes.

Vivian stands quietly for a moment.  And then she turns and

walks into the bedroom.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - NIGHT

Vivian starts roughly picking up her clothes in the dim light

of the bedroom.  As she does she starts crying.  With each item

of clothing the tears come down harder.  Edward appears at the

doorway.  His face is genuinely concerned.

Vivian lets the clothes fall from her arms.  Sobbing, she stands

limply.

Edward goes to her and wraps his arms around her shoulders.

She touches his hand.  He sits on the bed.  He pulls her to him

and wraps his arms around her, holds her tight.

INT. BROKERAGE HOUSE - DAY

Edward, carrying a briefcase, moves jauntily down a long

hallway.  Stuckey trails after him.

Stuckey stops.  He calls after Edward.

Edward hurries on.

EXT. REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE - DAY

Edward exits out of his limo and walks to the front doors.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Edward smiles, moving jauntily to the elevators.  Mr. Thomas

at the front desk notices Edward's happy mood.

Edward's attention is taken by the glittering jewelry display

in the hotel jewelry store window.  He detours from the

elevators and moves to the window for a closer look.  He thinks

a moment and enters the jewelry store.

INT. PENTHOUSE - AFTERNOON

Vivian comes out of the bedroom into the living room wearing

an elegant red sequined evening dress.  She looks incredibly

beautiful.  She sees the phone.  A thought occurs to her and

going to it, she picks it up.  Waits.

No answer.  She hears someone at the door.  She hangs up.

Edward enters.  He is carrying a small case.  He stops at the

sight of Vivian.

He holds up the small case.

Vivian's jaw drops.  Edward is holding a diamond and ruby

necklace in his hands, holds it as if it might melt if he

breathed too hard.  Edward behind Vivian, fastens the

necklace around her neck.

He leads her to a mirror.  She stares at her reflection.

EDT. BURBANK AIRPORT - DAY

A limo pulls onto the tarmac at Burbank Airport.  A PILOT in

a leather jacket and sunglasses hurries forward to open the limo

door.  Edward -- now wearing evening clothes -- and Vivian climbs

out of the limo.

Taking her arm, Edward leads her across the tarmac.

Up ahead is a waiting private jet, its engines already HUMMING.

She is speechless.  Edward grins, loving the look on her face.

EXT. BURBANK AIRPORT - DAY

The corporate jet takes off down the landing strip.

INT. CORPORATE JET - DAY

Edward and Vivian are alone in the passenger lounge of the jet.

Vivian can't believe the cabin.  It is a comfortable room

featuring a long couch that curves across two walls, built in

bar, television and stereo.  Edward is once again, going over

papers.

Vivian fluffs her hair up.  She makes a happy, excited growling

sound -- Rrrrr!  A wicked gleam comes to her eye.

She walks over to Edward and stands in front of him.  He looks

up.  She parts the thigh high slit in her gown to expose silken

quarters.  She begins to unfasten the garters one at a time.

Edward watches silk stockings slide down Vivian's lovely legs.

She reaches out and gently caresses Edward's face.  Edward sets

down his papers.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO - SUNSET

The setting sun casts an incredibly glow over the city and the

coast.

INT. CORPORATE JET - SUNSET

Vivian is at the window, looking out.  She carefully puts her

earrings back on.  She stares, mesmerized by the skyline, the

golden gate bridge in the distance.  She turns.  Edward is

buttoning his shirt.  He is silent.

A moment.  Vivian shrugs.

Silence.  Vivian stares out the window.

Edward moves close to Vivian and putting an arm around her

shoulders, stares with her out at the view.  Vivian rests her

head against him.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT

An airport limo pulls to a stop in front of the San Francisco

Opera House.  The DRIVER walks around back and opens the

passenger door.  Edward emerges and helps Vivian out.

INT. S.F. OPERA HOUSE LOBBY - NIGHT

Edward puts his hand on Vivian's elbow as they walk through

the elegant lobby.

Vivian is wide eyed as they walk past a beautifully lit

fountain with several graceful statues in its center.

Everywhere she looks she sees elegantly dressed WOMEN and

prosperous looking MEN.  It makes her nervous.  Without

realizing it, she raises a protective hand up to her necklace.

She looks as if she suspects someone is going to step up and

steal it.

Vivian reluctantly lowers her hands.

INT. S.F. OPERA HOUSE LOBBY - ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT

A crowd of PEOPLE mill around the lobby, heading toward their

seats.  Vivian is aware of the looks she draws as she passes

-- curious, even envious looks from the WOMEN, appreciative

glances from the MEN.  Her hands again rises nervously to her

necklace.

Vivian gives him a grateful look.  Relaxing, she lowers her hand

from the necklace.  With a flourish, he offers his arm.  She

takes it.  They start forward.

INT. S.F. OPERA HOUSE BOX - NIGHT

Edward and Vivian take their seats in a box high above the

stage.

The lights dim.

The orchestra begins to play.  Vivian's eyes focus intensely

on the stage, as if a new world is about to be revealed to her.

INT. S.F. OPERA HOUSE STATE - NIGHT

IN A MONTAGE OF IMAGES AND MUSIC - LA BOHEME is performed.

The lights from the stage dance across Vivian's face.  Edward

leans over to translate the tenor's aria.

The MUSIC ebbs and swells.  The sets and costumes change.  The

story continues.

Edward again leans close to Vivian.

Vivian raises a hand and gently covers Edward's mouth.  Her eyes

are fixed on the stage.  She doesn't need his help.

The emotions building inside Vivian swell as the music is

reaching its tragic climax.  Her lips tremble.  Her eyes fill

with tears.  Edward glances at her.  He studies her a long

moment, watching the emotions play unashamedly across her face.

Strangely moved, he takes Vivian's hand.

As the opera ends, they are both swept away by it.

INT. S.F. OPERA HOUSE BOX - NIGHT

As the lights come up, Vivian wipes off her tear-ruined

mascara.  She sighs, happy.  The WOMEN in the next box smile

at her.

Edward smiles at the now shocked looking Older Woman and he

and the still misty Vivian exit.

INT. CORPORATE JET - NIGHT - LATER

Edward and Vivian sit side by side.

Vivian looks at him a moment.  And then, leaning slowly forward

she kisses him gently on the mouth.  He looks at her surprise.

He puts his arms around her and kisses her back.  It is the

first time they've kissed and they make it very special.

EXT. CORPORATE JET - NIGHT

The plane flies in the night.  Back to L.A.

INT. REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - NIGHT

IN A SERIES OF CROSS FADES Edward and Vivian make love.

Equally giving, equally taking.  No masks, no shields.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - NIGHT - LATER

In the darkened bedroom, Edward and Vivian lie together.

Edward cradles Vivian.  Her back rests against his chest.  His

arm is over her body.

She takes Edward's hand in her hands and carefully examines

it; marveling at the fingers, the tiny hairs on the back.  She

gently kisses the palm.

She clutches Edward's hand tightly to her breast.  She closes

her eyes, ready to sleep now.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - ANGLE ON EDWARD - NIGHT

His eyes open.  Vivian's whispered endearment has filled with

him with sudden confusion and uncertainty.  He stares into the

dark, wondering what to do with the woman in his arms.

INT. PENTHOUSE - OUTDOOR PATIO - MORNING

The phone rings.  Edward immediately reaches out and picks it

up.  He is dressed in a robe.  Breakfast is on the umbrella'd

table in front of him.

INT.  STUCKEY'S HOME - LIBRARY- MORNING - INTERCUT

Stuckey, not even dressed yet, paces around his desk.

Edward hangs up.  His mind seems on other things.  He rises.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - MORNING

Vivian is still asleep.  She is face down on the bed, the

sheets just covering her to her waist.  Edward stares down at

her.  He gently reaches out and runs a finger down the soft line

of her spine.  Vivian murmurs contentedly.

Edward smiles at her softly.  And then:

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - DAY

Vivian is wearing her yellow dress.  She stares at herself in

the bedroom mirror.  Her hair... her make-up... she realizes

how different she is now, realizes that she likes it.

Edward comes out of the bathroom.  He crosses to the closet

for a tie.

She comes over, starts to tie his tie for him.  He is very

aware of the closeness of her.  She smiles at him.  He smiles;

puts his hand on her stopping her for a moment.  Looking up,

she sees that he is serious now; no more jokes.  He releases

her hand.

Vivian says nothing.

Vivian is silent.

Vivian sighs, letting something go inside.  Finished with his

tie, she turns away.

She is silent.

She finished his tie.

The doorbell suddenly rings in the living room.

INT. PENTHOUSE LIVING ROOM - DAY

Edward enters the living room.  Vivian slowly enters behind

him.  Edward opens the front door.  Mr. Kross slowly enters.

He looks very old and tired; so much so that Edward has to mask

his surprise.

An angry, reluctant looking David Kross is behind his father.

Stuckey brings up the rear.  Edward and David give one another

perfunctory nod.  Stuckey smugly winks at Edward.  Edward closes

the door and leads them all down the stairs.

Vivian is very troubled at Kross's appearance.  He gently nods

at Vivian.

Kross has to fight down his humiliation at Stuckey's tone.  He

turns to Edward.

Stuckey glances triumphantly at Edward.  He is surprised to

see that there doesn't seem to be any victory in Edward's face.

Edward is silent.  Kross interprets his silence as second

thoughts.

Vivian is disturbed watching this tired looking man.

Kross ignores Stuckey.  He looks to Edward.  Edward slowly

nods.

Kross nods tiredly.  His voice is very soft.

Vivian abruptly turns and disappears into the bedroom,

obviously upset.  The men all watch her go.  Edward hesitates.

He turns to Kross:

He heads to the bedroom.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - DAY

Vivian is sitting on the bed, on the phone.

She hangs up as Edward comes in.

Silence.

INT. PENTHOUSE LIVING ROOM - DAY

Edward enters the living room.  The men look at him

expectantly.

He heads for the door.

EXT. PENTHOUSE PATIO - DAY

Vivian stands at the railing, unhappily looking out at the city

beyond.  The phone RINGS.  She turns and hurries inside.

INT. PENTHOUSE LIVING ROOM - DAY

Vivian answers the phone.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY - INTERCUT

Mr. Thomas is standing behind the front desk, a rather strained

expression on his face.

A hand reaches out and wrenches the phone away from Mr. Thomas.

Kit, heavy make-up, skimpy outfit, chewing gum, cigarette and

all, keeps her voice just below a bellow.

INT. HOTEL LOUNGE - DAY

Kit finishes slurping on a big, frosty ice cream soda.  She

smacks her lips like a happy, little girl.  Vivian isn't having

anything.

An OLDER COUPLE walk past the table.  They stare at Kit.

Horrified, the elderly couple hurry away.

Vivian is silent, then.

Vivian is silent again.

Vivian nods.  Her face is filled with confusion.

INT. BROKERAGE HOUSE - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Edward stands at the window looking out.  There is something

about his somber demeanor that both reflects the look we've just

seen on Vivian and suggests the way we saw him at the top of

the story.

Jake enters, a pile of papers under his arm.  He begins laying

them out on the conference table.

Edward says nothing.

He turns as Stuckey, James and David Kross, and Vance enter

the room.  They surround a conference table.  Kross sits, the

papers laid out in front of him.  Stuckey hands Kross a pen.

A SECRETARY lays out finger food.  They wait for her to leave

before they speak.

Stuckey glances to Edward for help.  Edward is silent; indeed

it's as if something is twisting inside of him.  Stuckey plunges

ahead.

David stares at him.

He exits.  A moment.  Kross looks at Edward with a resigned

smile.

He sighs.  He picks up the pen.  He's about to sign.

Kross looks uncertain.  He gropes for an answer.

Surprise suddenly flares in Stuckey's eyes.

He exits from the room.  Stuckey follows.

INT. BROKERAGE HOUSE - DAY

Edward is walking down the hall.  Stuckey comes out of the

office and calls after him.

Edward silently goes into the elevators.  The doors close.

Stuckey heads back to the conference room.

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - LATE AFTERNOON

Edward comes out of the building.  His Chauffeur leaps to open

the limo door.

He sets off across Century Park East.

INT. PENTHOUSE - EVENING

Vivian is in the living room, pacing, edgy, the doorbell rings.

She turns.  It rings again.

She opens it.  Stuckey is standing outside with a small

briefcase.  He looks agitated.  He tries to hide it.

Vivian just stares at him.

Stuckey walks past her and down the steps into the living room.

There is a bar set up.  Stuckey sets his briefcase down.  He

crosses to the bar.

He pours liquor in a glass.  He fires it down.  It seems to

calm him a bit.

Stuckey glares at Vivian.

He looks at her a moment.

He grabs her wrist.

He tries to kiss her and pulls her down on the couch on top

of him.

She bites his hand.  Stuckey slaps her.  Vivian starts flailing

back.  But Stuckey is too strong.  Vivian staggers back at the

force of another slap.  Stuckey slams her up against a wall and

starts rubbing up against her.

He tries to kiss her again.

And suddenly a HAND lands on Stuckey's shoulder.  Stuckey turns

his head, startled.

INT. PENTHOUSE - REVERSE ANGLE - STUCKEY'S P.O.V.

Edward, murder in his eyes, belts Stuckey across the room.

INT. PENTHOUSE - NIGHT - BACK TO SCENE

Stuckey falls on the ground.  Edward rushes forward, berserk

with rage, to hit Stuckey again.  His fist hits the top of

Stuckey's head, hurting Edward's hand more than Stuckey's skull.

Vivian rushes out of room to bathroom.  Again Stuckey tries

to rise.  Edward kicks him in the butt, sends him headfirst into

the bar.  Glasses and bottles CRASH to the floor.  Stuckey again

tries to rise.  And collapses.  Edward rubs his fist.  They're

not used to this violence and both stare at each other panting.

Edward pushes Stuckey out the door and throws his briefcase

after him.

Edward slams the door in his face.  Edward stands there,

reflecting on what he's done.

INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - NIGHT - LATER

Edward holds an icepack to Vivian's cheek.

Vivian looks at him.

Edward looks on the bed at her suitcases.

A moment.  Edward reaches for his wallet.  He counts out bills.

He places them in Vivian's suitcase.  He puts his arms around

Vivian.

Edward is silent.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - EVENING

Vivian comes out of the elevators.  A BELLMAN sees her and

springs forward, reaching for her bags.

Vivian sees Mr. Thomas behind the front desk.

The bellman moves away.  Vivian walks to the front desk.

Vivian smiles softly at him.  She turns and walks for the door.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - DAY

A long silver limo drives down Hollywood Blvd.

INT. LIMO - DAY

The LIMO DRIVER pushes the button that rolls down the screen

between back and front seats.

EXT. VIVIAN'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

The limo pulls to a stop in front of a rundown apartment

building on a dirty Hollywood side street.  The Limo Driver,

a large Latino man, steps out of the car and walks around to

the passenger door.  As he does, he surveys the surroundings

uncomfortably.  Ths is rough neighborhood.  He opens the door.

Vivian steps out.

Several PEOPLE pass.  All of them stare at the car, at the

driver, at Vivian in her lovely clothes.

The driver, confused, watches her hurry up the steps to the

apartment building.  He drives off.

INT. APARTMENT LOBBY - DAY

Vivian walks toward her apartment.  The Landlord is sitting

at the front desk in a dirty undershirt.

Vivian lowers her sunglasses.

She keeps walking.

INT. PENTHOUSE - DAY

Edward stands at the penthouse window, looking out.  He is

dressed now, ready for travel.  There is something about his

expression, his somber demeanor that suggests the way we saw

him at the very top of the story.  A BELLMAN enters from the

bedroom, rolling a luggage loaded dolly along in front of him.

The Bellman exits, closing the door behind him.  The phone

rings.  Edward crosses to it, picks it up.  The Maid comes in,

looks around.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Edward with the Bellhop heads to the front door.  He's leaving.

INT.  VIVIAN'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAY

Vivian, looking fresh scrubbed without make-up, is wearing

clean jeans, a nice looking shirt and a suit jacket.  Her

bureau's are open.  She is packing.  Kit is watching.  She takes

the photo of her and Kit dressed up hot in hooker clothes and

packs it.

They both laugh but too hard.

Taking them, she sits on the bed and puts them on.

They laugh together.

They hug.

Kit begins backing out of the room.

Kit turns and hurries out of the apartment.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - DAY

Kit enters the falafel stand on Hollywood Boulevard.

INT. FALAFEL STAND - DAY

Kit enters, sits at the counter.

A very young GIRL is sitting just down the counter from Kit.

Kit nods at her.

She passes the girl down the pack.  She strikes a match, lights

her cigarette for her.  The girl inhales deep, lets it out with

a sigh.  She looks towards the window.

Kit turns to look.

KIT'S P.O.V. - HOLLYWOOD BLVD.

Outside, across the street, Edward has accosted two

PROSTITUTES; one blonde, one a red haired black one.

INT. FALAFEL STAND - DAY - BACK TO SCENE

Kit rises.

She heads out the door.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - DAY

Edward is still talking to the prostitutes.

They shake their heads.

They turn and walk away.  Edward stands there, not knowing

what to do next.  He looks discouraged and lost.

Edward quickly turns to find Kit staring at him.  Kit smiles,

triumphantly.

She turns and starts away.  She stops, turns back.

Edward follows Kit.

INT.  VIVIAN'S APARTMENT - DAY

Vivian sits on her bed, lost in thought.  Her bags are packed,

ready to go.  With a sigh she rises.  She picks up the bags,

exits the room.

Vivian stands in the dreary living room, looking at it, taking

it all in for the last time.  She suddenly looks more than a

little bit frightened to be leaving.  She musters resolve.  She

goes to the door, opens it and exits, closing it behind her.

Silence.  Vivian suddenly comes back in.  She puts down her

bags.  She crosses to the kitchen where she takes coffee

can/piggy bank from the shelf.  She puts some more bills into

it, places it back where Kit will find it.

She turns and starts again for the door.

She stops.  She hears something.  MUSIC.  An aria from La

Boheme.  Faint.  Seemingly coming from nowhere.  She dismisses

it -- she's hearing things.  She opens the door.  Stops.  The

music is louder and getting louder now -- it's not her

imagination.  She hurries over to the window.

EXT. VIVIAN'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Vivian comes out onto the fire escape.  She stares in wonder.

A snow white limo comes up the street.  A necktie has been tied

to the antennae like a knight's token.  The MUSIC from La Boheme

is BLARING from the car's stereo.  Edward is standing on the

car's seat, his head and body up through the open sunroof.  The

wind blows at his hair.  He is smiling.

Everywhere on the street people are staring; the BUMS, the

PUSHERS, the PASSERBY'S, the TOURISTS.

Vivian doesn't know whether to laugh or cry.

The car comes to a stop in front of the Vivian's building.

Vivian's landlord comes out the front door.  His eyes go wide

in disbelief.

Edward disembarks from the limo by coming up through the

sunroof.  He leaps nimbly to the ground.  He crosses to the entrance

of the alleyway, looking up at Vivian on the fire escape.

Edward wordlessly holds up a hand for her.

With a sudden cry of joy, Vivian comes down the fire escape.

She stops at the bottom stair.  Edward comes forward and sweeps

her into his arms.  They kiss.

He carries her to the limo as if she's weightless.  Her feet

never touch the ground.

The car door closes behind them.  The limo drives away.

The people of the street watch it go.

--------------------------------------------------------------

