<b><!--

</b>

<b>/*

</b>Break-out-of-frames script

By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com)

Over 400+ free scripts here!

Above notice MUST stay entact for use

<b>*/

</b>

if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Rocky

RING PRODUCTIONS, INC.

MASTER SCRIPT: INCLUDES ALL REVISIONS AS OF 1/7/76  REVISED:

INT. BLUE DOOR FIGHT CLUB - NIGHT

SUPERIMPOSE OVER ACTION... "NOVEMBER 12, 1975 - PHILADELPHIA"

... The club itself resembles a large unemptied trash-can.

The boxing ring is extra small to insure constant battle.

The lights overhead have barely enough wattage to see who is

fighting.

In the ring are two heavyweights, one white the other black.

The white fighter is ROCKY BALBOA.  He is thirty years old.

His face is scarred and thick around the nose... His black

hair shines and hangs in his eyes.  Rocky fights in a

plodding, machine-like style.  The BLACK FIGHTER dances and

bangs combinations into Rocky's face with great accuracy.

But the punches do not even cause Rocky to blink... He grins

at his opponent and keeps grinding ahead.

The people at ringside sit on folding chairs and clamor for

blood... They lean out of their seats and heckle the fighters.

In the thick smoke they resemble spectres.  Everyone is

hustling bets... The action is even heavier in the balcony.

A housewife yells for somebody to cover a two dollar bet.

The BELL RINGS and the fighters return to their corner...

Somebody heaves a beer can into the ring.

The Black Fighter spits something red in a bucket and sneers

across the ring at Rocky.

In Rocky's corner he is being assisted by a shriveled,

balding CORNERMAN, who is an employee of the club... He

works on Rocky without any enthusiasm.

A FIGHT FAN rushes up to Rocky... He is sixty-five, with

yellow teeth and wearing sunglasses.

The BELL RINGS... Rocky makes the sign of the cross.  The

fighters engage in battle.  The other fighter grabs Rocky in

a clinch and purposely butts him... The butt opens a bleeding

cut on the corner of Rocky's eye.

Rocky becomes furious over the foul and drives a flurry into

the man's body... Rocky slams the man on the jaw and the

fighter is out for the night.  The fans throw rubbish into

the ring.  Rocky ignores it.

The fans loudly go about collecting bets.  The referee does

not bother to even count the fighter out and drags him under

the ropes where he is placed on a stretcher.  Two new

fighters enter the ring.  Rocky slips on a tattered robe.

Embroidered clumsily on the back is, "The Italian Stallion."

Without pomp Rocky climbs out of the ring and bums a

cigarette from a spectator... The fighter on the stretcher

passes behind him.  He watches for a moment and continues up

the aisle... Before he even reaches the rear of the club the

BELL RINGS and the next fight has already begun... Rocky

fades into the darkness of the rear of the club.

THE TITLE CREDITS END:

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Rocky has nearly completed dressing and reaches into his

locker for his hat... Also in the dingy room are ten other

fighters... Two taped fighters talk shop in the corner.

Another paces nervously... Two other fighters shadowbox and

spit nervously on the floor.

A young pug combs his hair and listens to a portable RADIO

that is BLASTING MUSIC.

The fighter that Rocky has just defeated is drinking a beer

and joking with three other fighters... Some of the fighters

are smoking.  The room is cloudy.

A short man of fifty enters.  He is dressed in a sweater

buttoned over a t-shirt.

Rocky raises his head.  The promoter steps over.

The man peels off the money and departs... Rocky closes his

locker, nods to the defeated fighter, and leaves.

INT. TROLLEY - NIGHT

Rocky is on the trolley heading to South Philly... The

trolley is empty except for a thin old black WOMAN... The

black Woman studies Rocky's bruised face... Rocky becomes

self-conscious.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Rocky exits the trolley and walks down the block... He waves

at a pair of high-heeled hookers and they wave back.

Rocky passes a sleeping wino curled in front of a dirty

bookstore.  Rocky drags the man into a protective passageway.

Further down the street, Rocky pauses in front of the

"ANIMAL TOWN PET SHOP"... He peers into the dark store and

sees a sad, huge dog sitting in the window.  He mumbles to

the dog and continues to the corner.

EXT. ROCKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A short while later, Rocky approaches his apartment located

in the most deprived section of South Philly.  He kicks away

the litter that has gathered against the apartment steps and

enters.

INT. ROCKY'S HALLWAY - NIGHT

The narrow hallway is painted olive brown.  A single light

bulb illuminates the gloomy corridor.

INT. ROCKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rocky enters.  The one-room apartment is drab, with a

curling boxing poster of Rocky Marciano tacked on the wall...

Nailed against the far wall is a mattress.  The mattress is

used as a punching bag.  Stuffing spills out of the center.

Rocky drops his coat on the floor.  He puts on a pair of

glasses.  He crosses to a small turtle bowl... He lifts the

creatures.

Rocky starts to boil a pan of water on his hot plate, then

places an old 45 RPM record on a battered phonograph.  The

record is a tune, "ALL IN THE GAME."

... As the CRACKLING MUSIC BEGINS, Rocky picks up his

hairbrush.  Using it like a microphone, he mimes to the

record.  He assumes the posture of a famous singer crooning

to thousands of adoring fans... He then switches into a

bullish fighting stance and throws several punches.

The water boils.  Rocky soaks his badly-swollen hands.

EXT. SUNRISE OF PHILADELPHIA SKYLINE - DAWN

We SEE the jagged skyline, highlighted by the towering

figure of William Penn that rises above the dawn haze as it

sits majestically above City Hall...

EXT. DOCKS - EARLY MORNING

Rocky is walking along the waterfront... He has a bandaid

over one eye.  He looks at the rugged stevedores going about

their business... He stuffs his hands in his cheap wool

jacket and approaches a ship being unloaded.

Rocky passes two thick Mafia types leaning against a parked

car.  These men look like blood drinkers.

Rocky shrugs and moves away... He nears a heavy man working

the crane.  The heavy man looks frightened... He stops the

crane and hurries into the ship's hole.  Rocky dashes up the

gangplank.

INT. SHIP - DAY

The man enters the ship's hole and runs past tons of stacked

crates and coffee beans.

Rocky sprints after him... He lunges and flings the man by

the neck against the wall of stacked cargo.

At wits' end the man picks up a large metal hook used by

stevedores.  Rocky remains cool.

The man drops the hook.

Rocky's determined expression strikes home.  The fat man

quickly fumbles through his pockets and hands over a small

wad of bills.

Rocky looks almost sympathetically into the fat man's

flushed expression.

The man quickly removes his coat and extends it...

The man extends his coat again... Rocky suddenly grabs the

man's thumb and bends him to his knees.

Rocky releases the man who remains almost in shock.  The

thumb is fine.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Later that morning Rocky passes "Animal Town Pet Shop" in

South Philly... The shop is not very prosperous looking.  In

the window hangs a sign reading "Today's special -- Mixed

Kittens -- $1.50"... Rocky stops at this shop every morning.

He stares at a litter of Lhasa Apsa puppies.  He taps the

window and whistles.  He SEES a girl behind the counter and

presses his face against the window and does his impression

of the Hunchback of Notre Dame.  The girl nervously looks

away.

The girl behind the counter is ADRIAN KLEIN.  She is not

very attractive, but pleasant-looking.  Thirty years old.

Brown hair pulled back.  Light skinned.  She wears glasses.

Rocky really stops by to flirt with Adrian, but she is so

painfully shy nothing ever gets started... Rocky enters.

INT. PET SHOP - DAY

Rocky walks over to her, stares hard in her face and snatches

the bag out of her hand.  He removes the puppy and hands it

to Adrian.

Rocky takes a couple dollars out of his pocket and hands it

to the lady... She nervously exits.

Adrian nods... Though charmed, she is slightly intimidated.

The OWNER, a squat woman of forty, steps out of the back and

waves at Rocky.

Adrian shrugs.

Both the Owner and Adrian smile.

Rocky steps over to a large cage at the rear of the shop...

Inside is a huge dog.

Rocky opens the cage and the large dog jumps out and looks

very happy.

The dog plays dead.

Rocky waves goodbye to Adrian and exits the shop.

EXT. LEHIGH ST. TRAIN TRESTLE - DAY

Gazzo picks up Rocky.

INT. GAZZO'S CAR - MOVING - DAY

MR. GAZZO and his YOUNG BODY GUARD sit in the front seat...

Rocky is in the back seat.

Gazzo hands Rocky a twenty.

Gazzo's Bodyguard looks at Rocky's bruised face in the

mirror and smiles.

Gazzo steps out of the car and beckons to Rocky.

Gazzo gets into his car.

They pull away.

EXT. GYM - DAY

Gazzo drives off and Rocky strolls across the street to

Goldmill's Gym.  On the way he passes several familiar

people and exchanges waves... Out front is a young Irishman

who runs a soft pretzel stand... His name is RUDY.  It is

apparent from his face he was a prize fighter... He is blind

and mentally defective.

EXT./INT. GYM - DAY

Mickey's Gym is surrounded by bars and a couple of greasy

spoons.  Out front a crowd of young Blacks talk and jive

among themselves.  Two winos lean against the entrance.

Rocky enters the gym... The place is nearly full.  The

MEASURED BEAT of SKIP ROPES and THROBBING SPEED BAGS makes

the room come alive, like it was a mindless piece of

machinery.  Over the loudspeaker MUSIC by the Isley Brothers

BLARES out... The music adds a background to the CLANG of

the AUTOMATIC TIMERS, SNORTING SPARRING PARTNERS and the

THUDDING of HEAVY BAGS.

The room is divided -- Fifty percent Black -- thirty-five

percent Latin -- ten percent white -- five percent other.

As Rocky walks through the gym many of the FIGHTERS pause to

wave and yell greetings.

Rocky passes another FIGHTER punching the heavy bag.

Rocky touches the Fighter's bare hand.

Rocky smiles and moves away.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - DAY

The dressing room is lined with dented lockers.  Wooden

benches stretch across the room.  On the wall is a sign that

reads, "NO KISSING."

Rocky goes to his locker.  He tries to open it but fails.

He leans his ear against the lock and rolls the tumblers.

Still it does not open.  He shakes the lock forcefully, no

luck... Rocky is flustered and sits on a bench to ponder the

situation.

After a moment of deep thought, Rocky stands, seizes the

bench and smashes open the lock.  Opening the door Rocky is

taken aback when he sees a set of very flashy clothes.

He sees a picture of several black girls taped on the inside

of the door.

A short powerful man of thirty-five enters.  His hair looks

like it has been shaped with hedge clippers.  His name is

MIKE.

Rocky looks at his belongings crammed in a wilted shopping

bag and follows Mike across the room... Mike leans his head

into the shower room.  Two Latin fighters are lathering up.

The fighters laugh.  Inflamed, Mike removes a bar of soap

from his pocket and hurls it at the insulting fighter.  It

hits just above the man's head.  The fighters are shocked

into silence.

Mike turns and exits with Rocky... The fighters curse them

loudly in Spanish.

INT. GYM - DAY

Rocky and Mike move past fighters going through their

training routines.

Mike fakes a friendly punch at Rocky and hurries off to

another chore...

INT. GYM - DAY

The Owner, MICKEY, sits on a stool near the entrance.  He

wears a baggy suit... He is in his late seventies.

Rocky approaches... Mickey is conversing with another fighter.

Rocky turns and looks at DIPPER sparring... Dipper is a

young, muscular heavyweight with a mean expression.

Mickey pauses to watch a young middleweight time-skip as his

trainer sings "FASCINATIN' RHYTHM."

Mickey shoots Rocky a quick, indifferent look and removes a

rosary from his pocket and idly rolls it around his fingers.

Shrugging, Rocky moves away.

Mickey leans over to Mike who approaches with a mop and pail.

Dejected, Rocky travels to the locker room.  He passes Big

Dipper sparring in a ring... Dipper spits a mouthful of

water in a bucket and looks smugly at Rocky.

Dipper smiles cruelly and begins sparring... Scene FADES on

Rocky's crestfallen expression.  He moves off.

EXT. PET SHOP - DUSK

At sunset Rocky comes down the street and pauses at the pet

shop... He is eating Colonel Sanders' fried chicken out of a

bag... He taps on the window with a chicken bone.

INT. PET SHOP - DUSK

Inside Adrian is arranging pet toys on the counter... She

hears the tapping, sees Rocky, and tenses.  Rocky enters.

Adrian smiles slightly and moves behind the counter.  Rocky

fumbles idly among the pet toys.

The girl wants to say yes but a tremendous inferiority

complex will not permit it... Rocky understands.

Rocky exits.  Adrian watches his departure with mixed

emotions.

EXT. ANDY'S BAR - NIGHT

A short while later Rocky arrives at Andy's Bar... He throws

the Colonel Sanders bag and bones in a large public litter

can.  The trash can has a bicentennial picture of George

Washington pointing at a pile of garbage.  The caption

reads, "There was no litter at Valley Forge!"

INT. ANDY'S BAR - NIGHT

Rocky enters the bar.  He sits the Drunk in a booth...

Several drinkers wave at him.  OLD ANDY sets a mug of beer

in front of him... Rocky seems to be looking for someone.

Andy casually nods towards the men's room.

Rocky traverses the room and passes TWO DRUNKS leaning on

the bar.

INT. ANDY'S RESTROOM - NIGHT

Rocky enters the restroom... It is a vile stench hole with

years of the remnants of many sick drunks caked on the wall.

PAULIE is presently trying to comb his hair in the only

remaining piece of mirror in the room... Paulie is in his

early thirties.  He is medium height.  Brown hair.  Square

shouldered.  He has a foul personality... A classic

misanthrope.

The restroom stench is overwhelming... Rocky covers his nose

with the neckline of his t-shirt.

INT. ANDY'S BAR - NIGHT

The restroom door opens.  Rocky guides Paulie out.  Though

stumbling, Paulie talks as he walks.

Paulie smiles and Rocky guides him to a booth... Rocky steps

to the bar.  Andy leans over to him.

Rocky shakes his head no and raises his eyes towards a

suspended television... the nightly sports broadcast is on.

The SPORTS COMMENTATOR is at the airport and about to

interview the heavyweight champion of the world, APOLLO

CREED.  Creed is twenty-eight years old.  He is a tall,

smooth-muscled Black with barely a scar on his light coffee-

colored face...

He is followed by an entourage of mixed trainers and

cornermen.  Also tagging alone is a small group of hangers-on.

The Commentator interviews Creed as he and his followers

disembark a private jet.

Apollo's crowd smiles almost automatically at everything he

says.

Apollo draws his wife close.

Apollo's entourage laughs and they move on... The Commentator

faces the camera.

The sports show cuts away, but Rocky continues to look at

the television with a pensive stare... Andy has been speaking

the following dialogue over Apollo's broadcast.

The news report with Apollo ends.  Andy drinks.

Becoming despondent, Rocky rises and crosses to Paulie

slumped unconscious in the booth.

Rocky exits the bar... Andy turns to his customers.

Laughing, Andy pours himself a shot.

EXT. ATOMIC HOAGIE SHOP - NIGHT

Rocky passes an all-night sandwich shop... In the window

hangs the sign "ATOMIC HOAGIE SHOP, INC." Out front are

several YOUNG MEN and WOMEN.  They are much too young to be

out so late... A boy with a badly-chipped tooth beckons to

Rocky.

Rocky ignores the statement and faces a very young girl who

is smoking and leaning whore-like against the wall.

The girl, MARIE, assumes an indifferent attitude, attempting

to impress her friends.

The gang laughs.  Angered and shocked, Rocky grabs her arm.

The gang reluctantly backs up a step.

Rocky moves forward and they scatter... They quickly move off.

Rocky leads the girl away.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Rocky is walking the young girl home... They are presently

cutting through a dark public school yard.  They pass

through the beams of light cast off by weak flood lights

located at the top of the school building.  The atmosphere

is somewhat eerie.

She attempts to light a cigarette... Rocky nonchalantly

tosses it to the ground.

Rocky and Marie take a shortcut through a dark school yard.

Rocky and Marie exit the dark school yard... Standing in the

shadows of the building are three young muggers.  The light

from their cigarettes flares red in their faces.

The muggers pace Rocky across the street and follow them

down the block... Rocky sees them and stops and faces the

three.  The muggers pause and study Rocky from a distance of

twenty yards.  Rocky gives a loud boxer's snort, wipes his

nose with the side of his thumb and rolls his shoulders...

The muggers are intimidated and slowly peel off the meander

away.

Rocky turns to Marie who has been standing behind him.

Marie nods.

They exchange smiles and Marie moves away.  Rocky has made

an impact on her life.

She takes a few more steps and pauses again.

The girl runs to her house as Rocky looks on in dismay.

INT. JERGENS' OFFICE - DAY

APOLLO CREED and his LAWYER and TRAINER are seated in the

offices of MILES JERGENS.  Jergens, a successful promoter

looks unhappy as he looks into the scowling face of Apollo

Creed.

Apollo stands beneath a new fight poster and points to it.

Everyone laughs.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Late that afternoon Mr. Gazzo's white 1970 Cadillac pulls up

to Rocky's apartment... Rocky is in the back seat with the

loan shark.  Gazzo's bodyguard is driving.

Gazzo flips through a small black notepad.

The Bodyguard reddens... Gazzo motions to his Bodyguard to

relax.

The Bodyguard has been looking at Rocky with murderous eyes.

Mr. Gazzo is amused.  He steps out of the car, followed by

Rocky.

Rocky enters his apartment and Gazzo drives off.

INT. JERGENS' OFFICE - DAY

The SCENE REVERTS BACK TO Miles Jergens' office.  Apollo

pores over a large record book.

Everybody leans forward.

Everyone laughs.

FADE IN:

EXT. STREET - DUSK

Rocky and Paulie walk towards his house... Even though it is

cold and dark, a group of kids conduct an energetic game of

half-ball. (Half-ball is a variation of stick-ball.)

Paulie extends his thick hands and tries to make a fist.

EXT. ATOMIC HOAGIE SHOP - DUSK

They continue past the Atomic Hoagie Shoppe, Inc... A group

of young men pitch quarters on the sidewalk out front.

Rocky pauses... He sees Marie, the little girl from the

night before, hanging around with the guys.  She sees Rocky.

Marie takes a deep drag on her cigarette and faces the

opposite direction... The gang smiles and continues to pitch

quarters.

Anger and disappointment register across Rocky's face.

Rocky shrugs and the two men move off... Filling the night

air is the METALLIC SOUND of pitching QUARTERS.

EXT. PAULIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The men arrive at Paulie's home.  It is at the top of a

dimly-lit four story walk-up.

INT. PAULIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Paulie unlocks the apartment door and enters... Rocky

stiffly follows.  Paulie's sister steps out of the kitchen.

A large serving spoon is in her hand... The TV is on.

She stops short and eyes Rocky... She is visibly unsettled

by Rocky's unexpected presence.

She looks at Rocky again.

Adrian enters the bedroom and slams the door... Paulie

follows.  An argument ensues and Rocky overhears.

OVER the argument is HEARD a SPORTS BROADCAST rising from

the TELEVISION.

Meanwhile, the argument between brother and sister continues

in the bedroom.

Paulie turns and leaves the bedroom... He enters the kitchen.

Grabbing a large fork, he opens the oven and spears the

turkey... With the turkey suspended on the end of the fork,

Paulie heaves the dripping bird out the window.

Adrian has seen this and is shattered.  She runs back into

the bedroom and locks the door.

Rocky walks over to Adrian's bedroom door and begins speaking

to the enclosed girl.

Rocky turns away and begins to walk off.

Rocky goes over to the door and begins speaking again.

Adrian opens the door... She already has her winter coat on.

Paulie opens the front door and gives Rocky an encouraging

smile...

INT. ICE SKATING RINK - NIGHT

Rocky and Adrian enter a deserted skating rink.

From across the rink a CLEANING MAN yells at them.

Rocky approaches the Cleaner.

INT. ICE SKATING RINK - NIGHT

Adrian has on skates.  Rocky follows her onto the ice.  He

wears street shoes.

The Cleaner yells from the sideline.

Adrian slips and Rocky breaks her fall.

Adrian does a slight turn and Rocky has to speed up and

nearly falls.

Adrian nods and is very nervous... The Cleaner moves

carefully across the ice.

For the first time, Adrian laughs.

The Cleaner walks over as Rocky and Adrian get off the ice.

Rocky hands him a dime.

Rocky and Adrian start to leave.  Rocky pauses at the door

and fishes into his pocket and hands over eleven dollars.

He grins and leaves.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Rocky smiles.

INT. ROCKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rocky and Adrian enter his one-room apartment... She is

nervous and taken aback by the bleakness of the room...

Rocky goes to the icebox.

Adrian looks at the mirror above Rocky's dresser.  She sees

a high school photo of Rocky.  He once was handsome and

smooth-faced... Rocky steps up behind her and his face is

reflected in the mirror.

He turns on his cheap RECORD PLAYER... He reaches into the

turtle bowl.

Rocky flings open the window and bellows like a foghorn.

Rocky closes the window and faces the woman... She is not

smiling.  She looks frightened.

Adrian moves to the door... Rocky intercepts her.

Rocky removes her glasses and looks deeply into her eyes.

After a moment, Adrian removes the hat... She is becoming

rather pretty.

The woman melts into the corner and begins lightly sobbing...

Rocky steps forward and fences her with his arms and body.

Rocky softly kisses the woman... Her arms hang limp.  He

puts more passion into the kiss and she starts to respond.

Her hand glides like smoke up his back.

She embraces his neck.  The dam of passion erupts.  She

gives herself freely for the first time in thirty years.

EXT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - DAY

The following day, Rocky strolls down the street to

Goldmill's Gym... Out front a group of young blacks stop

talking and study Rocky as he passes.  Rocky's eyebrows knit

in confusion.

INT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - DAY

Rocky climbs the stairs and enters the gym...

... In a matter of seconds, his presence is known and the

athletes stare in wonderment... The big black heavyweight

contender, Dipper, throws down his towel in disgust and

turns away.

Mike quietly approaches Rocky.

Mickey Goldmill steps out of his office...

Mickey pulls out a card from his breast pocket... He hands

it to Rocky.

Rocky turns from Mickey and jogs out of the gym.  Mickey

fumbles with his rosary beads.

EXT. SKYSCRAPER - DAY

Rocky steps off a bus in mid-town Philadelphia.  He hurries

down Broad Street.  Every few steps he breaks into a trot...

He enters a skyscraper.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - HALL - DAY

Rocky exits the elevator and enters the office of Miles

Jergens' Productions.

INT. JERGENS' PRODUCTIONS - DAY

The SECRETARY is slightly startled by Rocky's excited

expression.

Rocky hands her the business card.

The Secretary rises and enters Jergens' office... Rocky eyes

the multitude of sporting pictures hanging on all four walls.

The Secretary returns.

Rocky collects himself and enters...

INT. JERGENS' OFFICE - DAY

Miles Jergens warmly greets him.

Jergens seems very amused.  He lights a cigar.

The weight of the statement comes crashing down in Rocky.

For a long moment he becomes nothing more than a basket case

as he ponders the statement... He half regains his senses.

The SCENE FADES and becomes a black and white television.

INT. PAULIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rocky and Adrian are at her home watching an old black and

white television... Rocky smiles... The film now cuts to

Apollo being interviewed.

Apollo has to move to the side to avoid a thrusting

microphone.

The Reporters laugh.

Rocky and Adrian laugh at the interview... Paulie, her

brother, takes offense.

Rocky's interview now fills the screen.  Rocky squints and

looks nervous under the hot lights.

Adrian blushes and laughs.

They continue to watch the remainder of the interview... The

head COMMENTATOR is looking directly into the camera.

Adrian is not happy with her brother's overbearing attitude.

She faces him.

INT. HALLWAY OF PAULIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rocky stands in Adrian's doorway.  He kisses her.

Rocky moves down the stairway and continues to do so as he

converses with Adrian who remains upstairs.  His VOICE

ECHOES up the stairwell.

Rocky is now on the ground floor yelling up to Adrian on the

top floor landing.

As Rocky completes the last word, he exits the building and

slams the door which RESOUNDS throughout the apartment house.

EXT. ATOMIC HOAGIE SHOP - NIGHT

Gazzo, the bodyguard, and Rocky are standing out front.

They are eating hot sandwiches.

Gazzo takes out a wad and peels off several bills.

Gazzo looks at the Bodyguard and shakes his head as if to

imply, "Why's this guy asking such a foolish question?"

Gazzo and the bodyguard step to the white Caddy parked at

the curb.  They enter the cab.  Rocky watches.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Rocky smiles and Gazzo gets into his car.  Rocky follows him

across the street.

Rocky walks away.

INT. ROCKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rocky returns home and enters his apartment.  After turning

on the light, he flips on his RECORD PLAYER.  He now feeds

the turtles.

Rocky notices two telegrams laying inside the threshold.  He

approaches them with a sense of awe.  He opens and reads one.

Settling on the bed, he reads the other.

A KNOCK is HEARD.  Rocky opens the door.  Mickey Goldmill,

the gym owner, stands framed in the doorway.

Rocky tosses soiled clothing off a mangled armchair.

By the manner in which Goldmill listens, it is obvious

something important is preying on his mind.

Rocky is slightly uncomfortable, almost embarrassed at

having outsiders see how he lives.

Mickey does not hear.  His attention is drawn to the turtles.

Mickey looks hard into Rocky's eyes.

He lights a half-smoked cigar.

Mickey deafly continues, becoming more engrossed every second.

Rocky points to his most prized possession.

Mickey has rung the bell.  Nothing could please Rocky more

than being compared to his idol.

Rocky shifts against the wall and lowers himself into a

crouch.

Rocky rises and opens a window.

Mickey drops the ashtray and kneels to pick it up... He

remains on one knee.

Rocky is choked and goes into the bathroom and closes the

door.

Mickey struggles to his feet and, like a beaten man, leaves.

Several moments later Rocky steps out and lowers himself

into bed.  Springing up a second later, he runs outside.

EXT. STREET OF ROCKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rocky races up the block toward the shadowy and hunched form

of Mickey.  Way in the distance, we SEE Rocky stop the old

man beneath a street lamp.  He places an arm around his

shoulder.

INT. ROCKY'S APARTMENT - PRE-DAWN

The following morning, Rocky's ALARM CLOCK GOES OFF at

exactly four A.M.  Not accustomed to rising this early, with

great difficulty Rocky staggers to his feet and wavers to

the bathroom.  He turns the light on and roaches scatter.

At the top of the mirror hang the telegrams.  Rocky fills

the basin and submerges his face in cold water.

Rocky sways to the icebox and removes a dozen eggs.  He

cracks five raw eggs into a glass and downs it in one

swill... his body quivers.

EXT. STREET OF ROCKY'S APARTMENT - PRE-DAWN

Rocky steps outside.  He is dressed in a well-worn sweat

suit with a hood, gloves and sneakers.  It is pitch dark and

his steaming breath attests to the cold.

He begins running down the center of the deserted street.

He can only be clearly SEEN as his form passes beneath the

street lamps.

Two garbage men stop hoisting cans to watch him pass.

EXT. ART MUSEUM STAIRS - DAWN

Rocky stands at the base of an overwhelmingly steep flight

of stairs.  He stares up at the stairs that nearly disappear

into the morning gray.  Taking a deep breath, he starts up.

From the start, he looks out of shape and halfway up his

legs give way.  Standing, he brushes off and descends the

stairs.

EXT. CITY HALL - DAWN

Rocky passes City Hall and veers to the river.  He pauses,

heaving great gusts of exhausted breaths.  He throws several

lazy jabs in the air and walks awhile with hands on his

aching sides.  Men delivering the morning papers observe

with amusement.

Rocky forces himself to begin running again.

EXT. ELEVATED TRAIN STATION - DAWN

Heading along Spring Garden Street, Rocky passes beneath an

elevated train station.  The ROARING TRAIN overhead seems to

blend perfectly with his muscular running style.

EXT. DOCKS - DAWN

The sky is beginning to lighten.  The fighter now runs along

the piers and past anchored freighters.

EXT. EASTERN PACKING COMPANY - DAWN

It is five-thirty and Rocky approaches the loading platform

belonging to Eastern Packing Company.  Alongside the loading

platform come several boxcars.

Rocky mounts the ramp and knocks on the metal door.  It soon

opens and Paulie guides him inside.  Paulie is drunk.

INT. SHIPPING OFFICE - DAY

Rocky notices TWO PUERTO RICANS lounging alongside theshipping office.

Rocky smiles and Paulie leads him out of the office and to

the large metal door of a walk-in refrigerator.

INT. FREEZER - DAY

They enter.  The freezer resembles a modern torture chamber...

row after row of hanging slabs of beef stretch into the

darkness to the far end of the refrigerator.  The blower

overhead causes the men to speak loudly.

Paulie opens a jackknife and idly jabs the hanging meat.  He

swills whiskey from a pint bottle.

Paulie speaks like a man who has been mulling this over for

quite a while.

From across the room Rocky looks him hard in the eyes.

Paulie reddens.  He steps forward and slams his fists in a

hanging beef.

The punching of the beef is a muted challenge and Rocky

responds.

Rocky walks up to a beef and slams his fist into the ribs.

The grotesque object swings in a wide arc like a hanging

corpse.  Rocky moves to the next one and hooks.

Rocky's face reveals a never before seen concentration, as

though he were locked in total battle.

Rocky speeds up and continues pounding on the second row of

beef.  Paulie's eyes widen and his face grimaces with every

punch, like he were receiving it.  Rocky moves into the dark

recess of the refrigerator.  Only the dull SOUNDS of his

POUNDING FISTS can be HEARD.

Rocky works his way to Paulie again.  Every hanging beef

swings and appears surrealistically alive.

Rocky looks at his hands.  They are drenched in red up to

the elbows with beef blood.

Paulie hands him a package of beef.

Rocky takes the package and runs out.  Paulie's bleary eyes

reveal a fearful respect and slight resentment.

INT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - DAY

The gym is filled to capacity.  The NOISE is DEAFENING.

Rocky pounds a heavy bag.

Mickey steps forward and removes a piece of string from his

pocket.

He motions to his bullish helper, Mike.  He hands him the

string.

Mike completes the task.

Two young boys in street clothes interrupt Mickey.

The boys depart.

Mike looks off across the gym.

Mickey strains his eyes to see a group of REPORTERS and NEWS

CAMERAMEN entering his gym.

The Reporter has a hundred things on his mind... he turns

from Mickey and nods to his crew... the other television

crews rush to set up.

The camera turns to Rocky.

Mickey nods and Rocky faces the glaring lights.

A young punchy fighter yells out:

The gym explodes with laughter.

He faces Mickey.  Mickey whispers in his ear.

Apollo Creed and his entourage enter the gym.

The gym freezes... everyone turns and stares in wonderment...

Mickey Goldmill shakes his head in disbelief.  He now

realizes it is a publicity stunt.

Apollo turns to the cameras... Rocky is speechless.

Dipper stands in the far ring... the attention Rocky is

receiving makes him a killer.

Everyone laughs... Dipper moves across the room like a large

snake.  He brushes people aside and steps behind Rocky.  He

nudges him... Rocky thinks it is an accident and ignores it.

Dipper pushes harder and Rocky looks questioningly at him.

Apollo stops his sales pitch in mid-sentence... The

television crew faces Dipper.

Dipper's fat black trainer holds out his hands and Dipper

slaps them soul style.

Silence looms over the gym... Apollo is apprehensive.  The

scene is becoming too real.  The frightened television crew

slyly begins putting away their expensive equipment.

Mike forces his way through the crowd and stands behind Rocky.

Dipper suddenly steps forward and slaps Rocky very hard

across the side of the head... The gym becomes stone cold.

Dipper is in total command and enjoying every moment of it.

Mickey looks nervously around and knows it's only seconds

before the blood will run... Rocky stands motionless.

Rocky swallows his pride.  He still has the string around

his ankles.  He starts to shuffle away with Mickey... Dipper

steps forward and viciously slaps Rocky again.

Mike jumps forward.

Dipper cuts loose with a hook and knocks Mike flat.  The

room reeks of fear... Apollo's eyes flick back and forth

between Rocky and Dipper.  Apollo taps his bodyguards and

they begin to ease away.

Rocky eyes his friend lying on the floor.  He shuffles

forward and stands before Dipper.

Rocky looks at Mickey, then lowers his eyes to Dipper's

feet... Dipper smiles.  Rocky starts to bend towards the

shoes.  Without warning, he explodes with a pair of

combinations into Dipper's exposed ribs.  A CRACK is HEARD

and Dipper sinks to the floor writhing in pain... The room

is silent except for Dipper's moaning.

Apollo is stunned by the scene.  The gym has become a very

gloomy place.  He eyes Rocky with admiration and a hint of

apprehension... He leaves.

Mickey is the first one to shake off the chill... He shakes

his fists at the Reporters, and puts his arm around Rocky.

The crowd disperses, leaving Dipper a pathetic and broken

figure lying on a dirty gym floor.

INT. ROCKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

They enter the dismal apartment... On the floor are at least

ten telegrams.  Rocky scoops them up and tosses them aside.

Next to the door is a pile of over a hundred telegrams.

Adrian steps to the window.  She pulls a pair of short but

lovely curtains from a shopping bag... The colorful curtains

glare in the dark room.

Adrian smiles and pulls out a small Christmas wreath...

Rocky smiles.  His eyes show what he feels for this woman.

Rocky approaches in a seductive manner.  Adrian

uncharacteristically removes her sweater.  Underneath is a

T-shirt that reads "Win, Rocky, Win."

SCENE FADES.

EXT. STREET - PRE-DAWN

Rocky is running... for extra weight he carries his huge

dog, Butkus.  After a half a block he sags under the weight,

and laughing, begins to wrestle with the dog on the

pavement... Rocky tries to sneak away from the dog, but

after a few steps the beast sees him and chases him down the

street.

EXT. EASTERN PACKING COMPANY - DAWN

It is early morning and as usual Rocky jogs to the meathouse.

He is followed by his new dog, Butkus.  He is stopped short

when he notices several television news vans parked out front.

INT. EASTERN PACKING COMPANY - DAWN

He and the dog enter the freezer area and see several

reporters and men with mini-cameras milling around... Paulie

is waiting for him -- Rocky is upset and goes outside.

Paulie follows.

EXT. EASTERN PACKING COMPANY - DAWN

Rocky follows Paulie inside.

INT. EASTERN PACKING COMPANY - DAY

A REPORTER points in Rocky's direction and suddenly he is

surrounded and led into the freezer area and positioned

beside a slab of hanging beef.  The camera lights go on.

Rocky steps over to a hanging beef and begins pounding with

incredible intensity... Everyone present is taken aback.

Rocky completes hitting the meat and stands there with his

hands dripping beef blood.

The Commentator is unnerved and Rocky looks straight into

the camera lens and holds up his bloody fists.

INT. JERGENS' OFFICE - DAY

Apollo sits behind Jergens' desk.  Jergens is not present.

Four middle-aged and younger types and Creed's lawyer sit

around the desk.  The desk is flowing with forms and charts.

Meanwhile, the trainer sits across the room in a darkened

corner looking at a small television.  He is watching

Rocky's bloody exhibition on the news...

He waves at Apollo.

Apollo is still engrossed in his paperwork.

EXT. PAULIE'S STREET - NIGHT

It is a moonless night and Paulie staggers across the street

and enters his building... He staggers up the stairs.

INT. PAULIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Paulie removes his coat and tosses it listlessly in a

chair... He rubs his red eyes and sways into the kitchen.

He takes a bottle of wine out of the icebox.  As he swills

the wine he hears the SOUND of Rocky's and Adrian's VOICES

traveling from his sister's room.  Paulie's face tightens

and he staggers towards the bedroom.

He stands outside the bedroom door and peers through a

crack... Rocky, Adrian, and the dog are watching TV in the

otherwise darkened room.

Filled with uncontrollable anger, Paulie smashes into the

room.

Paulie kicks the door out of frustration and appears to be

bordering on a nervous breakdown.

Paulie goes to the living room closet and removes a baseball

bat... Rocky and Adrian quickly follow.

Adrian is speechless... Rocky moves towards Paulie.

Rocky freezes...

Paulie smashes a small table with the bat.

Paulie smashes a large lamp with the bat.

The brother flares up and threatens Adrian with the bat.

Mortified, Adrian runs to her room... Rocky steps to Paulie.

Paulie cocks the bat back and tenses... Rocky remains still.

Paulie looks ashamed... Rocky walks, then returns.

Rocky goes into the bedroom... Adrian has buried her face in

a pillow... She is rocking slightly.  Rocky cradles her and

kisses her cheek.

INT. MICKEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Mickey is in his cluttered office above the gym... the room

is dark.  Blankets are tacked over the windows.  Rocky is

watching 8 mm movies of Apollo Creed in action... Rocky

watches with intense concentration as the fighter moves like

a huge dancer around the ring.

They both watch the flickering images.

They watch more action... Creed has a fighter helpless

against the ropes.

They watch more action.

The SCENE FADES on Mickey's voice and Rocky staring

transfixed at the images projecting on the wall...

INT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - DAY

Rocky is pounding the heavy bag with intense concentration.

As he strikes from all angles, Mickey instructs.

INT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - LATER

Rocky now works on the incline situp board... While doing

situps, he pounds himself in the stomach with a dumbbell.

The pain is evident on his face.

INT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - STILL LATER

Pushups between two chairs as Mike sits on his shoulders...

Mickey coaching drives him on.

INT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - STILL LATER

Mike has on a pair of target gloves and Rocky moves around

the ring swinging at them.

INT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - STILL LATER

Drenched in sweat, Rocky hums the speed bag.  His expression

is hard and flushed.  Mickey clicks a stopwatch and pats

Rocky's shoulder... He is very happy.

INT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - STILL LATER

Rocky has just completed exercising with the medicine ball...

Dino hands him a towel... Paulie crosses the gym as Rocky

heads to the steam room... A thin man crosses the gym and

Mickey nods.

Benny checks the skin around Rocky's eyes.

Heading towards the shower, Rocky is intercepted by Paulie

who traverses the gym.  He stops Rocky at the shower room

entrance.

Exhausted, Rocky studies Paulie's face a moment and nods

'yes.'... Rocky sways into the shower room and Paulie

strides off.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Running... Rocky's crowd of trailing boys has tripled.

Dashing through the streets, he resembles the Pied Piper.

EXT. ART MUSEUM STAIRS - DAY

It is twilight and Rocky is alone at the very bottom of a

huge flight of steps that seem to stretch into the heavens...

Rocky takes a deep breath and sprints up the never-ending

stairs... Halfway up, his body shows the strain.  Nearing

the top, Rocky pumps with all his strength and arrives at

the very top... He looks down the steep stairs and swells

with pride... He is ready.

INT. MAYOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Rocky is led into Mayor Rizzo's office by an aide... Rocky

is very nervous as he approaches the mayor, who is seated

behind his wide desk.

Flips open a thick file that lays in front of him.

Rocky tries to sink into the chair.

The mayor presses a button and a photographer enters.

Rocky rises and the mayor shakes his hand... Their picture

is taken three times... The photographer exits.

The mayor is shocked at first but then breaks into a big,

friendly laugh, and Rocky exits.

INT. ROCKY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Adrian and Rocky are at his apartment.  They are looking at

new scrapbooks.  Newsweek Magazine: Headline: "The Italian

Stallion or Donkey?" -- Philadelphia Magazine -- Rocky

stands with the mayor.

She flips through Sports Illustrated, The American Sportsman,

Ring Magazine, World Boxing, True, and a multitude of other

clippings.

The TELEPHONE RINGS... Rocky rises and walks to the new

white object hanging on the wall.

Adrian overhears the statement.

Rocky makes no motion to get a pencil.

Rocky hangs up.

Rocky grabs his coat and moves to the front door.

INT. GOLDMILL'S GYM - NIGHT

Rocky arrives at Goldmill's Gym... He unlocks the gym's door.

Rocky and the dog move through the eerie shadows of the gym.

Rocky moves across the gym with his dog and moves up the

steps to Mickey's office... At the top of the stairs he

looks down at the ring, reflects for a moment, then enters

the office.

INT. MICKEY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

After turning on the lights, he quickly cleans the cluttered

desk and sets up the projector... He goes to the cabinet and

removes a stack of 16 mm films.

INT. MICKEY'S OFFICE - SEVERAL HOURS LATER

The office clock indicates it is several hours later.  Rocky

is engrossed in watching another Apollo Creed film.  He sits

motionless.

Rocky sits upright.  Something catches his eyes... He

springs at the projector.  He reruns the scene several times.

INT. MICKEY'S OFFICE - SEVERAL HOURS LATER

Several hours later Rocky is engrossed in watching another

Apollo Creed film... He sits motionless.  Something catches

his eye.  Rocky stops the projector as Apollo is delivering

a knockout blow to an unfortunate opponent.

Rocky moves right up to freeze frame and inspects it like it

was a priceless painting... He backs off and begins writing

on a note pad.

INT. MICKEY'S OFFICE - DAWN

The first light of dawn streams through Mickey's filthy

windows... Rocky is slumped in a chair and it is apparent he

has lost interest in watching the movies.

The film has completed its run through the projector and

lazily flops around on the top reel... Listlessly Rocky rubs

his reddened eyes.

The door opens and Mickey flips on the light... The two men

stare at each other for a long moment.  Mickey studies

Rocky's despondent expression and knows what is on the

fighter's mind.

Rocky stands and, with his dog, inches past Mickey and exits

the room.  Mickey walks over and turns off the projector.

He idly pushes the machine with a lazy motion until it

slides off the desk and crashes to the floor.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

After leaving Mickey's gym, Rocky and his dog listlessly

move down the street and head for home.

INT. ROCKY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Rocky arrives at his apartment... Adrian is asleep on the

couch.  He lowers himself beside her.  Her eyes open.

Adrian touches his face.

Adrian touches Rocky's face... The fighter gently lowers

himself beside his woman.

INT. ARENA - NIGHT

It is the night of the Bicentennial fight... The location is

the Philadelphia Spectrum.

The Spectrum is filling to capacity... Grandly dressed

celebrities and wealthy fight fans lower themselves into

their ringside seat.  Nearly everyone is holding a red,

white, and blue sweater...

The arena is decorated in tons of patriotic red, white and

blue.  High above the ring are huge posters of GEORGE

WASHINGTON - ABE LINCOLN - DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. - BEN

FRANKLIN - and APOLLO CREED.

INT. APOLLO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Apollo Creed sits in his dressing room... It is dead silent

except for some NOISE that filters under the door from the

arena.

It is a CLOSE-UP of Apollo's hand being taped... The RASPING

SOUND of the adhesive tape is very pronounced.

INT. ROCKY'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

The atmosphere is identical to Apollo's dressing room.

Adrian watches in silence as Mike wraps Rocky's hand.

Again, the most pronounced SOUND is the RASPING of the

adhesive tape.

INT. APOLLO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Apollo's other hand is being wrapped.  Dead silence except

for the TAPE and APOLLO'S BREATHING.

INT. ROCKY'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Rocky's other hand is being wrapped in a CLOSE-UP.  The only

SOUND is the TAPE and ROCKY'S mounting BREATHING PATTERN.

INT. APOLLO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE-UP of drops being placed in his nose to help increase

his intake of oxygen.  The tremendously magnified SOUND of

APOLLO TAKING IN AIR.

INT. ROCKY'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE-UP of the drops being placed in Rocky's nose.

INT. APOLLO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

A heavy coating of vaseline is applied around the Champion's

eyes... In an EXTREME CLOSE-UP, the eyes shine brightly with

the grease.

INT. ROCKY'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Grease is smeared around Rocky's eyes... In the EXTREME

CLOSE-UP several deep scars are SEEN.

INT. APOLLO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE-UP of Apollo's trainer digging his fingers deeply into

the thick neck muscles of Apollo's upper back and neck.

INT. ROCKY'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE-UP OF Mike's arms wrapped around Rocky's waist and

lifting his diaphragm up... Magnified BREATHING ROARS from

the screen.

INT. APOLLO'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Apollo's trainer slips a mouthpiece into Apollo's mouth.

Apollo shakes his head and the trainer removes it and places

another one in the champ's mouth... Creed nods yes.

INT. ROCKY'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Everyone present is motionless as Rocky is in the bathroom.

Alone, Rocky is on his knee praying.  Completing his silent

prayer, he stands and looks at himself in the mirror.

Suddenly a wave of emotion sweeps over him as he thinks that

in a few moments he will face the most overwhelming challenge

of his life.

Out in the dressing room, the door opens and a guard leans

in and nods that it is time.  He leaves... Rocky steps out.

Rocky nods and moves toward Adrian.

Rocky nods and she kisses him.  The fighter leaves with his

trainers... Adrian is on the verge of tears.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Rocky, Mickey and Mike start down the long hallway... Up

ahead are three security guards... Rocky rubs his bare

shoulders.

Rocky puts on the robe... Embroidered across the back in

flaming letters is:

Mike helps him into the robe... Mickey is not amused.

INT. ARENA - NIGHT

TWO RINGSIDE COMMENTATORS sit in front of a panel of closed

circuit televisions.

ANOTHER ANGLE

A wedge of uniformed guards knife down the aisle to the ring.

Many people wish Rocky well as he passes... people also hurl

insults.  From the expression on Mickey's face it is also

the greatest night of his life.  In the audience are familiar

faces from the gym.  From the back of the arena a ROAR goes

up... Apollo Creed is in a mock boat dressed like George

Washington.  He throws silver dollars.  The NOISE builds to

DEAFENING proportions.  Creed's trainer holds the rope and

Creed bounds into the ring.  He tears off the Washington

outfit and it is clearly SEEN that Apollo Creed is garbed in

an outrageous Uncle Sam outfit... On his head is a red,

white and blue sequined top hat.  The robe is sequined red,

white and blue.  His boxing trunks are red, white and blue

silk with stars around the waistband.  The boxing shoes

match the trunks.  On his chin is a pointed white Uncle Sam

beard.

Immediately Creed begins gracefully dancing in a wide circle.

He passes within inches of Rocky in his Uncle Sam outfit.

The crowd loves the taunting.  Apollo Creed floats back to

his corner.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The ANNOUNCER steps to the center of the ring... Several men

in suits stand against the ropes... Paulie is dressed nicely

and sits at ringside with a pretty blonde escort.  Rocky

waves at him.  Paulie waves back and secretly gestures at

his date... Rocky smiles and gestures back.

The CROWD ROARS and JACK DEMPSEY waves and goes to Creed's

corner, then Rocky's.

He moves off.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The Announcer points and the timekeeper RINGS the BELL.

JAKE LA MOTTA raises his fist and gives best wishes to both

contenders... Timekeeper RINGS the BELL.

ANOTHER ANGLE

JOE LOUIS bows and steps to Creed's corner.  Creed strikes a

boxing pose and Louis tosses a playful punch.

ANOTHER ANGLE

FRAZIER rumbles to the center of the ring.  The CROWD CHEERS.

Apollo puts on a show... He grimaces and gestures like he's

going to attack Frazier.  His cornermen hold him back.  They

laugh.  Frazier goes to Rocky's corner.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The Commentators beckon to Frazier as he exits the ring.

Joe Frazier stands in front of the Commentators.

Joe laughs and exits.  The timekeeper RINGS the BELL.

ANOTHER ANGLE

A good CROWD RESPONSE.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The arena EXPLODES and Creed puts on a display of hand speed.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The REFEREE motions to both fighters... They step to the

center of the ring.  As the Referee explains the rules

Apollo and Rocky stare hard into each other's eyes... The

Referee's voice fades and the fighters' expressions fill the

screen... Something soulful and frightening is being

communicated.

The fighters return to their corners.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The BELL RINGS... Creed dances forward and boxes Rocky as

though he considers the man an amateur.

ANOTHER ANGLE

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rocky suddenly explodes with an upswing hook to the jaw.

Creed is dropped.  The arena EXPLODES.  Creed's eyes show

disbelief.  So do Rocky's.

Rocky backs into his corner... Mickey and Mike yell at him.

Creed is up... His playful attitude is gone... he is now all

business.  His lightning jab stings Rocky's face repeatedly.

Rocky charges and a terrific right crashes against Apollo's

chin, followed by an uppercut to the liver that causes Creed

to cringe...

Apollo counters with jabs and Rocky whips brutal combinations

to the body.

The BELL RINGS.

ROCKY'S CORNER

APOLLO'S CORNER

Apollo does not sit.  He stands and clowns with the

spectators to prove he is not hurt.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The BELL for the second round RINGS... Rocky rushes out fast

and furious.  Apollo melts out a left hook that raises a

goose egg over Rocky's eye... Apollo employs footwork that

dazzles Rocky.  He has class.  He studies Rocky and employs

his lightning jab with cutting accuracy. Still Rocky shuffles

ahead, bombarding Creed's midsection with hooks.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The round ends with Apollo assaulting Rocky with blinding

combinations and delivering a stupendous right cross that

flings Rocky into the ropes and shatters his nose... The

round ends.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Apollo stands in his corner and jokes with the fans, but he

is beginning to show the strain from the body punches.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rocky sits as Mickey and Benny try to reduce the swelling

around his eyes... The nose is shattered.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The Commentators are caught up in the action.  They speak

rapidly into their microphones.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Round three... Apollo comes out dancing.  He skips and side-

steps Rocky's sledgehammer hooks.  An expert ring general,

Apollo uses the ring fully.  Rocky keeps tearing in and

Creed meets the bombing attack that cause thick swelling...

Near the end of the round Rocky fires a penetrating punch to

the heart.

The wallop knocks Apollo off balance... The CAMERA GOES TO A

STEEP ANGLE SHOT from the floor, VERTICALLY UP Apollo's body.

The SCENE GOES INTO SLOW MOTION... Rocky releases a

terrifying uppercut that opens a gash under Creed's eye.

Creed's face contorts with excruciation.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The BELL SOUNDS.  Apollo's corner works frantically to close

the wound... The ring DOCTOR inspects the cut.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rocky's face is in very bad shape, not cut, but wretchedly

swollen around the eyes.

SERIES OF SHOTS

In the next ten rounds, Apollo cuts and slashes Rocky to

ribbons, but pays dearly... Both his eyes and lips are cut.

Welts across his midsection attest to Rocky's body-battering.

INT. ROCKY'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Adrian is unable to remain alone... She is lured by the

GROWING ROAR OF THE FANS... She exits the dressing room.

INT. ARENA HALL - NIGHT

Stepping out of the dressing room she walks down the corridor.

The MOUNTING CHEERS make her speed up.  She opens the door

at the end of the corridor and is hit by a THUNDEROUS WAVE

OF SOUND.  The guard at the door inspects her and goes back

to watching the fight.

INT. ARENA - NIGHT

Adrian stands at the rear of the arena and watches the

battle.  She is entranced by the power of it all.

Back in the ring, Rocky keeps grinding ahead.  He plants a

thumping left over the Champion's heart and Creed winces...

Rocky is game but losing.

At ringside Paulie is frantic... He is living the fight from

his seat.

Mr. Gazzo and his Bodyguard watch from the second row.

Gazzo looks proud.  The Bodyguard, impassive.

INT. ANDY'S BAR - NIGHT

A huge and lively crowd look up at the television over the

bar... They see Rocky driving Creed against the ropes and

cheer loudly.

INT. ARENA - NIGHT

The men are fighting with appalling tenacity.  Rocky rips

and tears into the body... Apollo counters with a ceaseless

stream of rapier-like lefts... The Challenger is seriously

outclassed.

Rocky wades in and Creed employs incredible footwork.  He

sets himself and cuts loose with a thunderbolt right cross

to Rocky's already broken nose.  Blood sprays from the wound

and red droplets drip from his chin...

Rocky takes a merciless beating and is staggered by a

torrent of combinations.  Rocky's eyes are closed.  But

Creed cannot drop him... The BELL RINGS.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The Commentators shift in their seats.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Apollo's corner is in turmoil... The Champion is definitely

hurt.

ANOTHER ANGLE

In Rocky's corner, things are frantic.  His eyes are swollen

shut.

Mickey nods to Benny.  He secretly places a small ring knife

between his index and middle finger.  In one smooth movement

he drags the razor over the blood welts and quickly covers

the draining wounds with gauze... It is done so quickly no

one is ever aware of the operation.

ANOTHER ANGLE

At the rear of the arena Adrian looks transfixed at the ring.

She is caught up in the heat of the battle.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The BELL RINGS for round fourteen.  Rocky bores in close,

but Apollo still has spring in his legs.  He seems determined

to end it this round... Apollo catches Rocky flush on the

jaw.  Rocky is staggered.  Like a wolf, Apollo cuts loose

with pure savagery.  Rocky is driven against the ropes and

receives a devastating beating from the Champion... Rocky is

dropped.

Rocky sits stunned in the middle of the ring... Everything

is a distortion.  He looks for familiar faces as though to

ask for help... Mickey and Mike scream frantically for him

to stay down.

Rocky gets to his feet and tenses with renewed energy.  He

is like a wounded wild animal.  The tide suddenly turns.

Rocky drops low and catches Apollo with a pair of terrific

body punches that seem to drive Apollo's diaphragm up to his

throat... A CRACK is HEARD.  A glaze of pain covers Apollo's

eyes.  It is only a supreme effort that keeps the Champion

upright... Apollo is badly hurt.  He is bent over.

Rocky moves towards Apollo.  Apollo flicks dread jabs into

Rocky's eyes... The Italian wades in with punches that seem

to bulge out Apollo's back.  Creed takes the punishment like

a stoic.

Blood is running from Apollo's mouth.  In the clinch he

leans over Rocky and it drips down the Italian's neck and

shoulders.  Apollo shields his wound from the ringside

judges and continues to fight.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The BELL RINGS.  Apollo's men rush out and guide him to his

corner.

Blood trickles from the corner of Apollo's mouth.  The

Trainer feels the ribs.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rocky no longer resembles himself... His face has completely

been beaten to jelly, but his mood is buoyant.

The ring Doctor leans over Rocky and checks the eyes.

Rocky is approaching the supreme moment of his life.  He

cannot be bothered with pain or doctors.

Everyone is distraught over Rocky's dangerous condition.

Rocky stands and eyes them all.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The BELL RINGS... Apollo moves cautiously out of his corner

and circles to Rocky's right.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The Commentators stare unansweringly at the fighters.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Apollo feints and Rocky falls for it.  The Champion unleashes

a lethal blow to the side of the head that jolts Rocky's

mouthpiece into the second row... Rocky sags against the

ropes in a crucified position... The insane crowd leaps to

their feet.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rocky's bloody teeth snarl at Apollo and he waves him to

come ahead and fight toe to toe... Apollo obliges with a

weary but effective burst of rights and lefts that have K.O.

written on every punch.  Rocky counters the assault blow for

blow.

Mickey looks at the clock... TEN SECONDS TO GO.

Blood sprays over the ropes and onto the ringside

photographers... They are horrified and wipe away the blood.

The fighters stand toe to toe and drag every remaining bit

of strength from their souls and beat each other without

mercy.  They look hypnotized and have entered a dimension

far beyond blood and pain.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The BELL RINGS... The arena EXPLODES with thunderous approval.

Their cornermen rush to their collapsed fighters... In the

midst of all the confusion both fighters look at each other

with unabashed respect -- They stand like blood-drenched

gladiators on the most dramatic night of their lives.

As though reacting to some unspoken command, they both step

towards each other and embrace... Apollo whispers in Rocky's

ear.

Mickey comes over and separates them and leads him back to

his corner... Mickey embraces him.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The Announcer enters the ring with a microphone.

The CROWD ROARS.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Apollo did not expect this and tenses.  His corner nervously

tries to reassure him.  It does no good.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rocky did not expect this either and looks in confusion at

Mickey, but Mickey is frozen with anticipation.

ANOTHER ANGLE

ANOTHER ANGLE

Apollo is rigid.  Fear radiates from his eyes.  To lose the

crown on this night after the fight he fought would kill

him... A silence has blanketed the arena.

ANOTHER ANGLE

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rocky sorely smiles and looks at the waves of CHEERING fans

that circle the ring and reach out towards him... Mickey

grabs Rocky's hand and raises it.  The CROWD ROARS.

Mickey and Rocky look at each other and grin.  Mickey hugs

Rocky like a son.  Mickey raises Rocky's hand again.  Rocky

turns away from Mickey and pats Benny the cut-man's

shoulder... Benny smiles wearily.  Rocky stares across the

ring at Apollo Creed, who stands victorious, but his face

and body are badly distorted... The two men lock stares that

reflect admiration.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Apollo climbs out of the ring and the fans crush forward

screaming his name and waving red, white and blue banners.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rocky also climbs out of the ring and waves of frantic well-

wishing fans rumble forward... Mickey's eyes show mounting

apprehension as the fans become abnormally active.

ANOTHER ANGLE

They shove the police aside and clutch wildly at Creed.

Creed's army of bodyguards swing angrily at the crowd but

they are soon engulfed by screaming waves of humanity.

Apollo is suddenly hoisted into the air and is being carried

along by a legion of fans.

ANOTHER ANGLE

On the opposite aisle Rocky is experiencing the same

overwhelming adulation by his fans but does not seem to be

frightened by it, like Apollo.  Mickey tries his best to

control things but his voice is drowned out in the growing

clamor.  The fans shove the guards aside and hoist Rocky to

their shoulders.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rocky's and Apollo's fans are aggressively competing against

each other... chanting, 'Creed, Creed, Creed.'

Rocky's fans counter by bellowing, 'Rocky, Rocky, Rocky.'

ANOTHER ANGLE

Paulie tries to get to Rocky but is shoved aside and he

starts swinging.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Both Rocky and Apollo are completely at the mercy of the

crowd.  They are being passed overhead and remain helpless

as their bodies float up the aisle on the sea of hands...

The CHANTING IS DEAFENING.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Fearful that Rocky is in danger, Adrian tries to move

forward.  Running headlong into the crowd, she angles

through the mass to get to Rocky.

ANOTHER ANGLE

She is manhandled and shoved in a multitude of directions,

but she keeps her feet... She sees him.  In the distance,

Rocky floats INTO VIEW and Adrian flattens against the wall

and waits for the procession to pass.

The procession approaches and she clearly sees Rocky's

unbelievably battered but smiling face.  He appears to be

king of the world.

The procession approaches and passes Adrian.  She jumps on

her toes and waves frantically but is not seen.  She screams

Rocky's name... Somehow the delicate voice knifes through

the racket and reaches Rocky.

Rocky frantically looks in all directions and barely manages

to see Adrian jumping up and down waving.  The crowd is

carrying him away.  He attempts to lower himself but the

crowd won't permit it.

Rocky instead turns and begins climbing across people's

heads and shoulders.  He resembles a man trying to go up a

down escalator.  People are jammed so tightly together Rocky

manages to crawl across them to Adrian.

Still suspended in air, Rocky leans down and Adrian jumps up

and they lock in an embrace.

The two are swept along into the greatest night anyone can

remember...

