R U N A W A Y   B R I D E

Screenplay by Sarah Parriott & Josann McGibbon

--------------------------------------------------------------

FADE IN

EXT. AN IMPOSSIBLE EXPANSE OF MARYLAND FARMLAND - DAY

The wind rustles the endless field of corn, blows over the

freshly mown meadow of soybeans, and magically sways a copse of

trees.

It's a Fall after-noon. A SUDDEN POUNDING OF GALLOPING HOOVES

breaks the peace and... A HORSE and RIDER burst between the rows

of corn into the meadow.  They are running for their lives.

CLOSE ON:

The rider is a bride -- a beautiful woman dressed in a

disheveled wedding gown, it's train tattered and flying like a

knight's banner out behind her. This is MAGGIE CARPENTER.

The horse is frothing and wild-eyed, like the bride, who turns

to look behind her in terror.  The horse's labored breathing

mingles with Maggie's panicked gasps.

We see a WEDDING BOUQUET fly into a ditch as the horse thunders

on.  Maggie clings to the reins.  She looks as though she is

running from the devil himself.

FADE TO BLACK

EXT. IKE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Establishing.

EXT. IKE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY - ESTABLISHING SHOT

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY

Ike walks out of his apartment building talking on cell phone.

Ike yells at a CONSTRUCTION WORKER.

Ike turns and walks down the street, talking into cell phone.

He spots a RICH LADY with tons of diamonds getting out of a

Limousine, talking to a CHAUFFEUR.  He goes up to her.

They walk up to her DOORMAN.

Ike walks off.  They stare at him as he goes.

EXT. ANOTHER NEW YORK STREET - DAY

Ike's talking on the phone to his friend's machine again.

Ike continues walking now in the full panic of writer's block.

He pleads into his friend's answering machine as he walks.

He walks away from the t-shirt table towards the bar.  The

Vendor calls out to him.

Ike enters the bar.  The Woman drops the shirt she was holding

and walks off with her children.  The T-shirt Vendor goes back

to selling his shirts.

INT. NEW YORK BAR - LATE DAY

Ike sits at the bar speaking to an attractive Woman nearby, a

MAN puts is USA Today on the bar and addresses the BARTENDER.

The Man continues speaking as Ike and the woman continue their

conversation.

The Woman gets up and begins throwing darts.

She starts throwing darts.

The Woman goes to her bar stool, gathering her bag and leaves a

tip for the Bartender.

She whacks him with a newspaper, then shakes his hand.

The Woman leaves the bar.

The phone rings.  Te Bartender answers it as Ike sits back on

his bar stool.  Ike grabs the woman's magazine that she left on

the bar and starts glancing at it.  The Man at the bar has heard

the whole thing.

Ike looks at the Man with reservation.  The Man is George

Swilling.

Ike gets up and moves to the dart board.  He removes the darts.

Ike turns slightly, giving the man his back.

The Bartender gives him cocktail napkins and a pen.  Ike starts

making notes.  Ike looks up from his writing.  The Man gets up

and starts throwing darts.

Ike moves to the Bartender and pays him.

Both Ike and Bartender turn and stare.

Ike turns and heads for the door.  The Man calls after him,

getting up from his stool without stopping his enthusiastic

story.

Ike stops in his tracks.  He turns back around in spite of

himself.

INT. IKE'S APARTMENT - DUSK

Ike sits at his computer, cassette player with Miles Davis PLAYS

next to him as he types away reading his handiwork to himself.

EXT. USA TODAY OFFICE - DAY

FISHER walks through the main office reading the paper.

INT. USA TODAY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Elaine at her desk reads aloud to herself.

Fisher hands a file to Elaine.

Fisher leaves and we hold a USA Today sign.

INT. NEW YORK BAR - DAY

The Man comes out of the men's room reading the USA Today,

Kevin, the Bartender, stands on the bar reading the same

article.

Te Man sits at the bar near to the Bartender.

EXT. USA TODAY LOADING DOCK - DAY

WORKERS read the above article.

INT./EXT. BEAUTY PARLOR / HALE, MARYLAND - DAY

PEGGY and MRS. PRESSMAN exit the parlor and stroll down the

street. (lowers her paper and reads.)

The older one, Mrs. Pressman, listens with a pained expression

as the younger one, Peggy, continues to read the column aloud.

Neither one can believe what they're reading.

Peggy and Mrs. Pressman step into a hardware store.

INT. HARDWARE STORE - CONTINUOUS

Peggy and Mrs. Pressman enter, worried.

On the counter, they see a copy of USA Today opened to the

article about Maggie.

We follow MAGGIE down the back stairs inside The Hale Hardware

Store, the prettiest, most welcoming shop of its kind anywhere

in small town USA.  Somehow the place ha taken on the spirit of

the owner's daughter; both stop and shop-girl radiate brightness,

charm, and possibility.  Maggie comes down steps with a faucet

handle and goes to an elderly customer, MR. PAXTON.

Maggie rounds the bend, another customer, EARL, stands by the

paint machine.

Maggie steps behind the front counter of the store and takes the

account book out.  Her voice trails off as she sees the dour

expression on the faces of her friends.

Peggy nervously mentions the newspaper.

To their amazement, Maggie starts smiling.

Maggie stays amused.

Maggie looks at the stricken face of her friends.

Peggy looks like she is going to cry with sympathy for Maggie.

Maggie is starting to feel uncomfortable.  She looks down,

dubiously, at the paper.

She picks up the paper and brushes it against her apron, leaving

an INK SMEAR!!

She nearly kneels over.

Peggy and Mrs. Pressman immediately spring to her side.  They

give her a bag to breathe in.

INT. MAGGIE'S WORKOUT ROOM/GYM - NIGHT

We see Maggie kickboxing in anger.  The radio is on.  She

suddenly stops, yanks Ike's article off the wall, leaves her

workout area and goes to her desk.

ANGLE ON DESK AREA:

She turns off the radio and begins to type her letter.

EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY - ESTABLISHING SHOT

As Maggie's VOICE-OVER continues to read her letter, we take in

a Manhattan busy day.  It is big, loud, and anonymous.

Te CAMERA FINDS Ike, striding across a busy street, dodging

taxies.  A WOMAN smacks him with a newspaper.  He passes a WOMAN

TRAFFIC OFFICER, then a hot dog stand.  He greets and passes a

FALAFEL VENDOR.  THE CAMERA PANS to a USA Today Truck.

EXT. USA TODAY LOADING DOCKS - CONTINUOUS

He passes regular GUYS who cheer him.

INT. USA TODAY LOADING DOCKS - CONTINUOUS

He enters the newspaper building, going to Ellie's office.

INT. USA TODAY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

He walks through the crowded city room.  His arrival attracts a

lot of attention from his CO-WORKERS.  Ike seems a little

surprised, but he's pleased.

Ike works his way down the hall to the editor's office.  CHUFFA

Ike greets various workers.  He steps up to the editor's

secretary, ELAINE.  She doesn't smile.

A buzz.

Ike goes into Ellie's office.  Elaine picks up her phone.

INT. ELLIE'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

ELLIE is that editor.  Stylish and successful looking, she's

about Ike's age.  Ellie sits behind a big desk with a scowl on

her pretty face.  Her casual-looking husband, Fisher, sits

nonchalantly on the arm of the couch.  Ike enters as Ellie reads

Maggie's letter.

Ike sits as Ellie puts the letter down and takes off her glasses.

Fisher gets and places a photo of the cat on a bookshelf on his

way to the other side of the room.

Ellie pushes USA Today lawyer's letter across the desk for him

to read.  Ike picks it up and skims the letter.  His face is as

impassive as stone.

Ike gets up and stands near Ellie, making his point.

Ike puts down the letter and puts his glasses back into his

pocket.

Ellie hands Ike Maggie's list.

Fisher winces and looks away.  Ike and Ellie look at each other

for a sober moment.

Ellie fidgets with her toy rake, then Ike heads for the door.

He laughs a little at the painful truth of her words and walks

out.  Ellie collapses back in her chair.  Fisher goes to her and

rubs her shoulders.

EXT. USA TODAY LOADING DOCK - DAY

Ike rides sadly on the back of a forklift, gets off and walks

out.

EXT. HALE RESIDENTIAL STREET - ANOTHER MORNING

ANGLE ON MAGGIE'S HOUSE:

A train goes by.  A modest clapboard house with a porch.  Two

entrances.  A PAPERBOY tosses a paper onto the lawn in front of

the house.  The front door opens and Maggie appears fresh out of

bed, wearing only a jacket and panties.  Heedless of being seen

this way, she scampers out to the sidewalk to pick up her

delivered paper:  USA Today.  She tears off the plastic bag and

rips into it, looking for her letter.  She finds it.  A smile on

her face, then she scampers back into the house.

INT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - THAT MOMENT

Maggie skips back into her house which she shares with Father

and Grandma.  A cozy and eclectic place creatively furnished on

a shoe-string.  She rushes into:  KITCHEN WHERE BOB KELLY,

fiance #4, is packing cans into a backpack.  Bob, 38, has a

pleasant face and a body that is almost shockingly buff.  He's

wearing a T-shirt that reads: "Mountaineers Do It Against the

Wall.", Maggie dances over, waving the paper and singing.

Bob test the weight of the backpack adding dehydrate food.

Maggie puts the paper on the kitchen counter and starts to read

aloud, paying no mind to Bob, who is sticking her arms through

the straps of the backpack.

Bob continues to hold up the weight of the backpack as he straps

it onto Maggie's shoulders.

Bob lets go and Maggie FALLS BACKWARD, disappearing behind the

counter, and hitting the floor, with a THUD.  Bob looks down at

her.  Maggie's voice rises from the floor behind the counter.

Bob has no answer.  He reaches a hand down.  He yelps as Maggie

pulls him down on top of her, out of frame.  We HEAR them giggle

and kiss.

INT. USA TODAY LOADING DOCK - ANOTHER DAY

Fisher uses the dock for a photo shoot featuring men and women

in evening and formal wear from Escada for G.Q.  Fisher is not

actually shooting the camera, but rather supervising it.

Fisher claps his hands and calls the models to attention.  Then

he goes onto the stage and sets the models in their positions.

INT. USA TODAY OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

Elevator doors open.  Ike and Fisher exit and walk towards the

coffee table.

They stop walking.

They start walking again.

They stop at the coffee table and grab something to eat.

He walks away.

He follows him.

EXT. MARYLAND HIGHWAY - DAY

We see Ike driving down the highway.  The car sputters a little

as he and Fisher continue their conversation in voice-over. (If

needed by the editor.)

We hear Fisher laugh.

Ike's car drives into Hale, passing a billboard reading,

"Welcome to Hale."

EXT. HALE STREET - DAY

Ike drives down picturesque Main Street.  He passes Hale

Hardware.  Sign says: "At Curl.  Be back soon."

EXT. ATLANTIC HOTEL - DAY

A BARBERSHOP QUARTET is singing in front of the only hotel in

town.  Ike pulls up and goes inside.

INT. LOBBY/ATLANTIC HOTEL - DAY

Ike has checked into the Atlantic Hotel.  The clerk, LEE, hands

him his key.  Ike asks about room service and the restaurant.

An OLDER WOMAN asks him if he plays bridge as he goes up the

stairs to his room.

EXT. HALE MAIN STREET - DAY

Ike exits his hotel as the Barber Shop Quartet finishes singing

"Camptown Races."

He now walks down the charming main artery of the town, looking

exactly like what he is:  a cynical New York out of his element

on sunny Main Street, USA.  KIDS ride by on bikes, streaming

balloons behind them.  A balloon hits Ike on the face.  As he

crosses the street, he mutters into his tape recorder:

Flags hang on all the storefronts and the place sparkles with

wholesome attitudes as PEOPLE greet each other familiarly.  Ike

comes to beauty parlor called "Curl Up and Dye".  The place is

doing business and crowded with WOMEN.

INT. BEAUTY PARLOR - DAY

Cindy, the manicurist, does Mrs. Pressman's nails.  Maggie sits

on the floor next to Peggy's salon chair, fixing the base of a

barber chair.  She tightens a screw and looks up, satisfied.

Cindy's dog is on the floor near Maggie.

Cindy rolls over in her chair, picks up her dog and rolls back

to her station.

Peggy sits in the chair.  Maggie spins her around and around.

JUST THEN.  Ike enters the salon, taking off his sunglasses.

Peggy hops off the chair.

It's a little early in the game for Ike to be thrown off guard.

Ike smiles down at his loafers and shrugs.

Peggy steps aside.  Ike moves toward Cindy and Mrs. Pressman.

Te ladies shake his hand and introduce themselves.

Maggie looks over from her sitting position on the floor.  She

gives Ike the once-over, focusing on the shoes.

Ike crouches to see Maggie on the floor just as she rises to her

feet.  Ike straightens up.  For a moment, he is thrown by her

beauty and intelligent eyes.

During the Ike/Mrs. Pressman exchange, Maggie looks at Ike.

There's something familiar about him.  She looks over at Peggy

and beckons her to a copy of Ike's column affixed to a mirror.

A goatee and horns, have been scrawled on Ike's byline picture.

He's been "devilized".  Peggy coughs as she recognizes Ike in

the newspaper clipping.

Mrs. Pressman continues her story to Ike.

ANGLE ON:

Maggie indicates column to Peggy.  She looks over at the part of

the shop used to wash and dye hair.  There's a sink, stool and a

cabinet affixed to the wall above sink, which holds various

shampoos and hair dyes.  Maggie gets an idea.  Maggie and Peggy

step forward toward Ike.

Maggie nods affirmatively.

Ike hands Peggy his jacket.  A mystified Peggy leads Ike to the

sink.  While she does this...

Ike sits in the chair near the sink.  Maggie shakes out a smock

and puts it around Ike.

Ike leans and rests his head on the sink.  Peggy bends over him

and wets his hair.  She grabs various hair coloring products.

Ike pulls the cloth down from over his face.

Peggy recovers his face, then continues to fuss with the hair

coloring products.  Maggie helps.

INT. BEAUTY PARLOR - LATER

Ike sits with a towel over his head as Peggy blow-dries the back

of his head.  His back is to the mirror, his body faces Maggie.

Cindy does her own nails as Mrs. Pressman scratches off lottery

tickets.  The dog, Sprout, sits in is basket.

PETE, wearing a hat, comes in the front door of the salon.

Ike peeks out from under his towel as Maggie continues.

Ike listens intently and stares steadily into her eyes.  Peggy

removes the towel.  His hair is divided into equal parts and

dyed orange and red.

Ike stares back at her, the tickle of suspicion creeping up his

spine.

Maggie swivels his chair so that Ike faces the mirror.  Ike

looks at his brightly colored hair.

Ike stares at his hair in total confusion.  With icy calm, Ike

rises from his chair and primps the end of his hair as if giving

it the finishing touches.  Then he sees his defaced newspaper

clipping and all becomes clear.  He picks up the article and

shows it to everyone.  Ike does a slow burn.

Ike turns and puts the clipping up on the mirror.

Peggy hands him his jacket.

Ike moves toward the door.  He spots Pete.

Ike smiles at Maggie and exits.

EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY

In front of beauty salon, Maggie follows Ike out.

She puts on her sunglasses.

He walks the other way.

She stops walking and turns to Ike.

Ike walks back to Maggie.

PASSERSBY stare at Ike's hair and giggle.

He stares at her for a beat, stung by her words.

Maggie walks away.  Ike walks a few steps and stops at a KID on

a bike.

Kid agrees.  Ike puts the hat on and starts to cross the street.

An OLD WOMAN walks by and hits him with a newspaper.  Ike is

stunned.

EXT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - DUSK

Maggie pulls into the driveway in her truck.  She's in a fine

mood as she walks right in the house.

INT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - DUSK

Bob, Walter, and Maggie's GRANDMOTHER JULIA sit in the living

room.  Grandma is sewing one of Maggie's wedding veils.  Walter

drinks wine, Ike wears a hat.

Te family dog, Skipper, sits near a ceramic dog table.  Maggie

smiles as she walks in the front door and puts down her tool box

and bag.

Maggie enters the parlor to see Ike smiling evilly from his seat

on the couch.

Raises the bottle to Maggie.

Maggie stares at them both.

Maggie gives him a look that says, "You are not absolved."  She

smiles stiffly, looking back at Ike.  She then sits on the arm

of Bob's chair and puts her arm on his shoulder.

Maggie takes the wine bottle from the table next to Walter.  She

snaps a look to Bob, who follows her.

We overhear them murmuring in annoyed tones about the wedding

plans as they exit... Walter puts down his drink.

Ike notices that he's been sewn to the veil.

Grandma cuts the thread and separates the veil from Ike's sleeve.

Walter points to a portrait painting on the wall.

Walter gestures to a pile of video cassettes on the bookcase.

Ike checks on the tapes.

Walter cracks up.

CLOSE ON:  A tape.  It reads: "Maggie I, II, III."  Ike's

interest is more than piqued.  Ike picks it up.  They get up and

go to the dining room.

INT. DINNING ROOM/MAGGIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The family dog, Skipper, steals food from the table.  Walter

scolds him.  Walter whacks his crab with his hammer and Ike

copies him.

Ike's hammer flies out of his hand.  He goes to pick it up.

Walter reacts.

Ike raises his eyebrows in question.  Bob explains.

To Maggie's satisfaction, Ike shoots Bob a look of begrudging

respect.  Nobody who's been up Everest is a total clown.

Bob and Maggie kiss Ike two little love-birds.

Ike is highly amused.

Walter cracks up, Maggie shoots Ike a look.  He smiles back.

INT. IKE'S HOTEL ROOM/INT. FISHER AND ELLIE'S BEDROOM (NYC)

INTERCUT TELEPHONE CONVERSATION

Fisher and Ellie are exercising.  Fisher is on a cycle machine.

Ellie does yoga stretches.  Ike sits back on the couch, puts on

his glasses and watches a video taped wedding playing on the TV

screen.  Superimposed titles read "Brian Norris wedding."

THE TV - CLOSE

Two flower girls and Peggy enter a crowded church where the

groom, Brian, and his best man wait at the altar.

Now we see Maggie come down the aisle, then walk past the altar.

We see Maggie move away another aisle and out of the church.

SHOCKED WEDDING GUESTS rise in horror, as she runs from this

first wedding.  She drags the train boy up the second aisle as

she leaves.  Ike hangs up.  He gets up to pick up the remote and

then sits back down to watch.

The tape fast-forwards to the next wedding.  Now Ike is looking

at a much more relaxed, hipper, backyard wedding.  It says,

"Gill Chavez Wedding".  He hits the fast-forward button

(sometimes slowing down).

ON TV:

We see the Carpenter's backyard.  It is Gill and Maggie's

wedding day.  The yard is crowded with a MIXTURE of Hells

Angels-types, Deadheads and townspeople.  The "altar" is a band

platform against the back fence.

Gill is waiting on the platform with a rock combo playing

Grateful Dead-type music.  He makes an introductory speech.

Maggie steps out onto the back porch.  She's beautiful in a

hippie-type wedding ensemble.  She walks with her father to a

trampoline.  We can see her tattoo.  She jumps on the trampoline,

then dives into the crowd.  They watch her and body surf her

over their heads to the back fence.

As she hits the stage, she looks at Peggy and Gill, then decides

to go.  She jumps off the stage and runs up to a passing GUY on

a dirt bike.  She jumps on and turns and waves as she rides

away.  During the video, Ike scribbles: "Gill Chavez".  Maggie

goes off on dirt bike.  The tape fast-forwards to the last of

Maggie's fiascoes.

ON IKE'STV

He now sees the third wedding.  It's outdoors, in a tree lined

area, MUSICIANS plays.  Ike laughs as he discovers that Maggie

approaches the altar on horseback, in a simple white dress,

wearing a crown of flowers.  The Maid Marian look.  Ike slows the

tape.

ON TV:  IT SAYS, "GEORGE SWILLING WEDDING".

As Maggie rides down the aisle, suddenly the horse whinnies!

Maggie has kicked it in the shins.  It rears and bolts,

galloping off with the bride.  Ike FREEZE FRAMES the tape on an

image of Maggie, hair blowing.  Although she is panic-stricken,

her soul seems to shine through in tat single frame.  As Ike

stares at her, the smirk fades from his face.  He just looks at

her, allowing himself to see her expression, her eyes.  He can't

help it.

She gets to him.  Ike gets a restless look on his face.  He

stares closely.  The groom is George from the bar.

EXT. TE TROUT BAKERY - THE NEXT DAY

Establishing.  High angle wide shot of a bakery in Hale.  Ike

exits a neighboring shop and walks down the block.  He pauses in

front of the bakery to take a look at Maggie's truck.  As he

does, a middle-aged Black WOMAN walks by and whacks him with a

newspaper.  Ike is stunned as she walks off.  He turns to a MAN

sitting on a bench.

INT. THE TROUT BAKERY - CONTINUOUS

CLOSE ON a group of plastic grooms and brides on a counter top.

MRS. TROUT is behind the counter helping Maggie with a selection

of grooms for her wedding cake.  The groom figures are spread out

on the counter.  All sizes and colors, some attached to brides,

some solo, some tuxes, some in dinner jackets.

Then, Ike comes up behind her as she discards another groom.

Maggie cringes at the sound of Ike's voice.

She ignores him and continues her search.

Mrs. Trout steps away to get his order.  Ike moves to the other

side of Maggie and picks up the bride and groom figure.

He makes the bride figure repeatedly knock the groom figure in

the head and run away screaming.

Mrs. Trout just about bursts a gut laughing.  Maggie takes the

bride from Ike coldly.

Ike turns and goes to her.

She starts picking lint off his sleeve and buttons his cuff.

Mrs. Trout turns and grabs Ike's bag containing two coffees.

Mrs. Trout beams.  Maggie understands his answer a little better.

Mrs. Trout hands Ike his items and he pays.

Maggie steps over, carrying her bride and groom figure choices.

Ike smiles at Maggie enigmatically as he picks up his order and

heads for the door.

He starts to leave with his bag.  Mrs. Trout stops him.

He leaves.

Maggie hands Mrs. Trout her bride and broom figures.  Maggie

looks at Mrs. Trout, suddenly nervous.  She dashes out.  Mrs.

Trout imitates Ike bamming the bride and groom, laughing.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FIELD - DAY

Various High School SPORTS TEAMS practice.  Maggie strides across

the football field, a scowl on her face.  A few HIGH SCHOOL

FOOTBALL PLAYERS job past Maggie, doing laps.  A boy, KENDALL,

calls out to her affectionately as she passes.  One of them,

DENNIS, slows his pace to run alongside Maggie.

Dennis runs on as Maggie continues toward her goal: Bob and Ike,

standing together on the other side of the field.

ANGLE ON BOB AND IKE

They're both standing on the blocking sled.  Wave after wave of

VARSITY FOOTBALL PLAYERS ram into the sled and drive it across

the field with both Ike and Bob on top of it.  Ike is munching on

one of the cinnamon rolls as Bob pushes the KIDS.

Ike smiles broadly atop of the sled as he sees Maggie

approaching, looking mighty peeved.  He nudges Bob and points to

Maggie.  Bob lights up at the sight of her.

The football players move away from the sled.  Bob moves to

Maggie, leaves Ike alone.

Bob kisses and embraces Maggie.  She doesn't see Ike immediately,

then:

Ike grins and shows Maggie the notes in his pocket.

Bob grabs Maggie around the waist and smooches her adoringly.

Maggie scowls at Ike.  He nods, all charm.

Ike leaves.  Bob calls after him.

Maggie is aghast.  She stares at Bob.  Ike joins in behind a line

of peppy cheerleaders.

Bob gives Maggie a big hug.

Bob blows his whistle, then puts Maggie on the football sled.

Maggie screams as the boys push her down the football field.

INT. CONFESSIONAL BOOTH/CHURCH - DAY

Maggie kneels, hands folded reverently.  The booth's grate opens

before her.

She tries to recall.

Brian closes the confessional window and exits

Brian leans into her confessional.  She steps out to join him.

He's a nice looking and gentle man.  They regard each other for a

beat.

Brian moves away.  Maggie follows and sits in a nearby pew.

A woman, MRS. MURPHY, rushes in.

The woman goes into the confessional booth to wait.

Brian sits next to Maggie.

She turns to rush out, then stops herself.

She moves to the confessional, knocks, then speaks to Mrs. Murphy.

Maggie closes the booth curtain and turns to Brian.

Brian smiles mischievously.

She starts to go, then stops in her tracks as she hears:

Maggie  looks at Brian.  Suddenly, she remembers too.

And she scampers out.  Brian goes back into the confessional.

EXT. GILL'S GARAGE - DAY

Maggie drives up to an old brick firehouse that is now an auto

garage.  The faded sign reads: "Gill's Garage".

INT. GILL'S GARAGE - DAY

Maggie rushes inside and looks around.  No one is in sight.

Several cars, including a yellow jeep-like car up on a hydraulic

lift, are in the funky garage.

A CRASH, coming from the nearby back room, we hear loud muttering

in Spanish, then out stumbles GILL CHAVEZ, 34, wearing a grease-

stained Grateful Dead tie-dyed T-shirt.  He grins triumphantly,

worshipfully cradling a CASSETTE TAPE in his hands.

Maggie regards her former fiance with patient warmth.

Gill looks up and gives Maggie a fond, hazy smile.

He pulls out the cassette from its case.  It's broken.  The tape

is dangling from the cassette.

Gill picks up an electric GUITAR and starts to play.

Suddenly, a loud CHUCKLING emanates from the car overhead.

Maggie stops Gill from playing.  She shoots her ex an angry glare

and moves a lever on the shop wall.  With a HUM, the car descends.

As the hydraulic lift slows, the car is lowered, revealing Ike

sitting in the driver's seat.  He has been enjoying the

photograph he's holding.

Maggie swipes for the photo, but Ike is faster at pulling it away.

Gill takes off his guitar and sets it down.

Maggie is conspicuously silent.

Maggie seethes.

She tries to grab the photo again.  Ike pulls it away.

Maggie quickly turns around and pulls down the back of her shirt,

revealing the top of her back and a pristine expanse of skin.  No

tattoo.

Gill is still trying to grasp the meaning of this.

Ike laughs.  Maggie looks at him with rage.  Gill dramatically

pulls down the front of his t-shirt.

There it is on Gill's chest: the rose tattoo.  Maggie sighs,

pained.  Gill shows it to Ike.  Ike looks at the tattoo.  He

shakes his head at Maggie.

Maggie moves the lever on the wall again, sending Ike back up to

the ceiling in the car.  She grabs the photo from Ike and exits.

Gill grabs his guitar and sits.

The hydraulic lift stops moving.  Ike leans out.

Ike sings and taps along in tempo on the side of the car as Gill

sings and plays "Ripple".

EXT. HOTEL PORCH - NEXT DAY, SATURDAY MORNING

As Maggie drives into town with Peggy, they see Ike on porch with

SHERIFF, POLICE CHIEF and MAIL    MAN, all playing instruments as

a blues band.  Ike is not bad on slide guitar.  They all like

Ike.

Maggie "CHUFFAS" with Peggy and moves on.

EXT. SOFTBALL FIELD - LATER THAT DAY

CLOSE ON:

The slow, loopy pitch of a softball.  A bat connects.

NEW ANGLE:

A big wholesome man, CORY, runs for first base.  He just beats

out the throw.  Bob, acting as umpire, yells, "Safe!"  Happy,

Cory turns to the stands and waves.

ANGLE ON:

Maggie and Peggy, cheering loudly.  Peggy tries to whoop harder

than Maggie, but that would be tough.  From firs base, Cory waves

back to them.  The two women sit back down and Maggie takes back

up with their conversation.  Maggie is still al steamed up.

ANGLE ON:

Cory as he runs for second base and with a slide beats the throw

for the force out.  The women jump and cheer -- Maggie, again,

the most boisterous.

ANGLE ON:

Dennis recognizes Ike as he walks up.  Dennis tells Ike that he

is going to marry Maggie some day and shows Ike where Maggie is

sitting.

ANGLE ON:

Maggie spots Ike as they sit back down.  She groans.

Ike finds Maggie in the crowd and leaves Dennis.

Before Peggy can protest, Maggie climbs down off the bleachers

and goes and stands near the dugout near the rest of Cory's team.

Ike comes up to Peggy.

Ike indicates the seat next to Peggy.

Ike sits down comfortably.

He starts drinking it.  ON THE FIELD, Cory is getting ready to

steal third.

Peggy takes a small sip off her soda.

Cory dives in for third and makes it.  The crowd goes wild.

Peggy yells and jumps in.

But Maggie's whoop sails out above it all.  Cory waves.  But not

at Peggy.  He directs his delight at Maggie, who jumps up and

down by the dugout.

Ike looks between Cory, Maggie and finally, Peggy.  Peggy jerks

her waving hand back down to her side and sits down.  Ike

pretends not to have noticed.  The two watch as Maggie and Cory

smile at each other.

Next BATTER hits one to deep left field and it lands in the grave

yard.  Cory scores, greeted by Maggie.  Ike and Peggy watch as

Cory and Maggie belly-bump and high-five each other in

celebration of Cory's play.  No looks at Peggy.  Ike keeps an

empathetic silence, seeing that Peggy is truly hurt.

Suddenly, Peggy stands, pushes past him and runs down the steps.

Maggie looks up just in time to catch Peggy's exit.  Ike pulls

his tape recorder out of his pocket and starts speaking into it.

Maggie shoots Ike an accusing look, walks up to him in the

bleachers and sits next to him.

Ike does an on-the-button imitation of Maggie jumping excitedly

at Cory.  Now Maggie sees what he's getting at.

Ike walks away.  Alone, Maggie tries to seem enthused.

EXT./INT. STREET/BAR - LATER - DUSK

Sitting in front of Inn Hale Bar, we see the BARTENDER

pantomiming holding the reins of a wildly galloping horse.  We've

seen something like this before.  Maggie's wild ride away from

her last wedding.  Ike laughs with Bartender just as Maggie

drives by the bar and sees this.

INT. ATLANTIC HOTEL - NIGHT

Maggie walks up to the front desk of the hotel, where Lee is

sleeping with his feet up.  She knocks his feet off the counter.

Maggie moves up the stairs towards Ike's room.

INT. ATLANTIC HOTEL - HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Maggie walks towards Ike's room, checks that no one sees her and

enters.

INT. IKE'S HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Maggie lets herself in the modest room and turns on the lights

on.  She spots on audio cassette on the desk near the door.  She

holds the cassette up to the light to read the hand-written

label.  It says "Miles Davis" on it.  She pockets the tape.  She

walks to the living room.

MAGGIE'S POV:

Ike has placed post-its on a framed picture, using the frame as a

bulletin board.  Post-it notes lay out the information he has

gathered under headings and subheadings.  Parents "Mother"

deceased, subheaded by "Walter" and there is one for "Brian",

"Gill", and "Bob".  Maggie smiles and shakes her head.  She rips

one post-it down and reads it to herself.

She begins ripping many of other post-it off the picture frame.

She's ripping them down, fast and furious, then shoves them in

her shoulder bag.

INT. ATLANTIC HOTEL HALLWAY - CONTINUING

Ike comes down hallway as Harvey puts his shoes out to be shined.

BACK INSIDE THE ROOM

Maggie, looking around, discovers the wedding video on the

coffee table and grabs that, too.

THE SOUND OF A KEY IN THE DOOR makes Maggie jump.  She flees to

the bathroom, and shuts and locks the door.  Just as Ike enters,

he sniffs and looks around the room, instantly knowing something

is up.  He sees all his notes gone and a glimpse of Maggie as she

closes the bathroom door.  Ike is steaming.  A BUMP sounds from

the bathroom.  He goes over to the door and tries the handle.

It's locked.  He starts to pound on the door.

INT. IKE'S HOTEL BATHROOM - CONTINUING

Ike's wrong.  Maggie is already trying to open the first

bathroom window.  It's stuck.  She climbs over the bathtub,

opens that window and starts to climb out.

We HEAR Ike slamming his body against the bathroom door.

As Ike breaks in, he runs to the window and yells after her.

EXT. IKE'S HOTEL WINDOW - CONTINUOUS

She disappears around the ledge of the building and runs off.

Ike's neighbor, Harvey, sits reading near his window.

EXT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Establishing.

INT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

CLOSE ON:  A CASSETTE PLAYER.  We see the familiar handwritten

label: "Miles Davis."  "Kind of Blue" plays as Maggie listens in

a chair, looking shell-shocked, surrounded by the post-its she

stole from Ike's room.  We see as she reads them: "Father, two-

fisted drinker," "Peggy, best friend, but Peggy doesn't totally

trust Maggie," "Bob" -- doesn't love him.  Overwhelmed, she

finishes reading the last note, leans back, puts her feet up on

the table, deep in the mood of the melancholy music.

The CAMERA MOVES on the last note on the floor next to her chair.

It reads: "SHOWS NO REMORSE".

FADE TO BLACK.

FADE IN:

EXT. MAIN STREET/BEAUTY PARLOR - NEXT DAY

It's early morning.  Mrs. Pressman hands Peggy a cup of coffee

to go.  Peggy walks to the beauty parlor, unlocks the front door

and goes in.

INT. BEAUTY PARLOR - DAY

Peggy enters and starts about her opening duties.  She turns on

the lights and turns and sees her friend, Maggie.

Peggy stops in her track.  Maggie is sitting curled up in a salon

chair.  She looks like she hasn't slept.

Maggie looks miserable.

Peggy moves to the salon mirror near Maggie with her cup of

coffee.

Peggy pours her coffee out of its Styrofoam cup into a ceramic mug.

Peggy sits in the salon chair next to Maggie.

Maggie looks ready to cry.

Maggie makes her funny face.  Peggy doesn't laugh.

EXT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - LATER THAT MORNING

Maggie exits her house, gets on her bike and rides off towards

town.

INT. IKE'S HOTEL ROOM - LATER THAT MORNING

Ike is still in bed.  He slowly blinks awake, stretches, and is

about to  throw off the covers when Maggie's voice breaks the

silence.

Maggie smiles cheerfully at Ike from the foot of the bed.  He

narrows his eyes at her.

Ike notices Maggie is holding two coffees.

Maggie hands it to him.

Ike puts a shirt on as Maggie speaks.

Maggie turns away from him as he dresses.

Ike clears his throat as he stands putting his pants on.

Ike takes his coffee with him as he picks up his glasses, puts

them on and crosses to the window.

Ike knows she's right.

Scowling, he writes out the check and hands it to her.  Maggie

looks at it and smile sweetly.

EXT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - DAY

Ike jogs alongside of Maggie on her bike.  Maggie parks her bike

and they go inside her door to the house.

INT. MAGGIE'S FOYER AND STAIRS - DAY

Maggie leads Ike upstairs to her workroom.

INT. MAGGIE'S WORKROOM - LATER

Insert on a cappuccino machine.  We PULL BACK and see Maggie and

Ike standing at her work table.  An automatic cappuccino maker

stands on the table.  Its base is made from a used paint mixing

machine.  It looks very shiny and futuristic.  Maggie's logo

"MAG" is on the side.  The machine shakes as it steams the

cappuccino.  Ike notices another homemade machine on the table.

He puts his finger in the wrong hole of the machine.

He puts his finger in the correct hole.  She turns it on.  The

brushes rotate.

He looks around and spots some gadgets and lamps on another table.

He walks to them.

He picks up one of the many logos on the counter.  Each boasts a

"MAG" logo.

INT. MAGGIE'S LIVING ROOM - A BIT LATER THAT DAY

Maggie's showing Ike engagement rings.

Ike snores.  Maggie hits him.

Maggie hands Ike another ring.  This one is in the shape of a

Grateful Dead rose.

Maggie hands Ike a third ring.  It's in the shape of a butterfly

and studded with multi-color gems.

Now Maggie shows Ike the ring on her hand.  It's a gold "#1" with

a diamond set into the number.

Ike touches her hand to examine the ring more closely.  Her

surprise at his touch shows on her face as she finishes her

sentence.

She takes her hand down.  Ike steps away.

Ike picks up his cup of cappuccino and moves behind the couch.

Ike moves back to the couch.

Maggie stares at Ike for a beat.  His words have taken a little

bit of her breath away.  She covers.

She moves from the fireplace to a chair and sits.

Ike is taken aback.

Ike takes a swallow of cappuccino.

Ike is restless.  He stands up.

Ike puts down his cup of coffee, gets his tape recorder and sits

close to Maggie.

Maggie move to TV.  She picks up Ike's stolen post-it notes and

her wedding video on top of the TV, and goes to the front door.

EXT. HALE STREET - THE NEXT DAY

Ike and Maggie drive in Maggie's truck.  They pull up in front of

a Bridal Shop.

A spectacular dress fills the small window.  It's beautiful,

romantic, sexy.  Maggie and Ike can be seen in the reflection.

Maggie gives Ike a smile that lights up the sky.  They go inside.

INT. BRIDAL SHOP - DAY

The place is fairly large and prosperous, probably the place to

go in the Tri-County area.  A little FLOWER GIRL, 10, is being

fitted on the pedestal in the middle of the room.  A saleswoman,

POLLY, has taken the flower girl under her wing.  They are both

under the expert eyes of a stern looking woman, MRS. WHITTENMEYER,

the shop owner.  Also, the girl's MOTHER is there watching.

The flower girl sees Maggie and runs and hides behind Polly.

Mrs. Whittenmeyer comes forward to greet Maggie.

Maggie leads her to the front window.

She points to the dress.  She smiles back to Mrs. Whittenmeyer,

expecting her to share her joy.  Mrs. Whittenmeyer darkens.

Maggie is keenly aware of Ike listening in.

Maggie lowers her voice, hoping to lessen the humiliation of the

moment.

Ike watches with regret as Maggie's child-like enthusiasm

drains away, her happy mood crushed by the tactless assault of

the shop owner.  He's starting to see that it's no always easy

being Maggie. There's a tremor in her voice.

Ike calls out to Mrs. Whittenmeyer.

She walks over to him.

Ike goes over and takes the mannequin out of the window.  Mrs.

Whittenmeyer catches the wig as he puts the mannequin under his

arm.

Mrs. Whittenmeyer wilts under Ike's fierce gaze.  She turns to

Maggie.

Maggie gives her a look.

Polly comes to help carry the mannequin away.

ANGLE ON POLLY AND MRS. WHITTENMEYER:

Maggie looks gratefully at Ike.

TIME CUT: A FEW MINUTES LATER:

Ike sits as he hears Maggie's voice behind him.

Ike turns around.  Maggie is standing on the pedestal, wearing

the dress and looking unbelievably gorgeous.  She is overwhelming

to behold and Ike has to struggle to keep his face under control.

She glows.  Then the moment between them is broken as she

suddenly remembers something and grabs the veil off her head.

INT. DINER - DAY

This is a great place -- a major hub of social life in Hale.  The

food is greasy and good, Mrs. Pressman is the waitress, and the

CROWD the essence of what is wonderful about a small town.  Bob,

Maggie and Ike sit on the counter.  Mrs. Pressman CHUFFS about

the luau, then moves around the corner.

Ike looks at Maggie.  He'd bet a thousand bucks on what she'd say

next.

As Bob has been talking, Ike has been watching Maggie's face.

The joy seems to have drained out of her.

Bob takes out a notepad and hands it to Maggie.

Before Maggie can finish, Ike intercepts her.

INT. ATLANTIC HOTEL - MOMENTS LATER

We hear Grandma as through the hotel doors, we see Maggie exit

the diner.  She gets a bag from inside the cab of her truck and

comes inside the hotel where she finds Ike talking to Grandma,

who is having tea with her friend, NETTA.

Ike winces.

Maggie moves toward door.

He steps over to Maggie in the doorway.

Maggie hands Ike a 30-year-old LP: Miles Davis' "Kind of Blue."

She steps outside, leaving Ike with the record.

She turns and walks back to the diner where Mrs. Pressman is

outside watering plants.  Ike looks after Maggie and then back

down at the record in his hand.  Somehow it makes him sad.

INT. IKE'S CAR - LATER THAT DAY

Ike drives through Hale gobbling french fries from the fast food

bag in his lap.  Ike passes THE INN HALE BAR, same dump of a

tavern he talked to bartender at.

ANGLE ON: MAGGIE'S CAR parked a few cars down.  He pulls over

and parks.  He gets out and speaks into his tape recorder.

INT./EXT. THE INN HALE BAR -- DAY

Ike approaches the window of the bar.  There's a DRUNK MAN and a

DOG sitting outside.  Inside, we see two figures from the back,

arms around each other.  One is definitely Maggie.  The other is

definitely not Bob.

As Maggie helps the man get up,  we see that it's Walter, Maggie's

father -- dead drunk.

They stumble and lurch, exiting the bar toward Maggie's car.

Maggie's having trouble keeping him steady as she opens the car

door.  Ike is there in a flash to help her pull Walter into the

car.

Walter passes out on the front seat.

Maggie looks at him with real gratitude.  She swings the car

door shut.

Maggie thinks about this for a moment.  She takes a deep breath.

EXT. ROAD - LATE DUSK TO NIGHT

Establishing of Ike's car driving.

INT. IKE'S CAR - LATE DUSK TO NIGHT

Maggie and Ike ride along.

Maggie nods,

EXT. IKE'S CAR - COUNTRY ROAD - NIGHT

Ike and Maggie stare forward.  Both seem in melancholy moods.

They're beginning to sense they're in trouble here.  Suddenly,

the car falters and jerks.  It shows to a stop on the shoulder of

the road.  The car backfires and smokes.

EXT. IKE'S CAR - COUNTRY ROAD -  NIGHT

Ike and Maggie sit in the steaming car for a moment.

Maggie slams the food closed.

An uncomfortable silent pause.  Ike breaks the moment.

Ike stares off down the road.  Maggie indicates a building in

the distance, then turns off the car lights.

Maggie points diagonally across the field to where a gas station

sign glows and the lights from the outer house twinkle.

He smiles and follows her into the field.

He steps carefully into the field, then hops gingerly toward Maggie.

MOMENTS LATER

Maggie leads Ike through a cornfield.

Ike chooses his words carefully.

Ike nods as they come to a wooden fence.  She puts her hand on

his shoulder.  Ike puts his hands around her waits to give her a

boost over the top.  We see the flicker of misunderstanding cross

Maggie's face at the initial contact.  Neither of them moves --

forward or back, but the electricity is obvious.

ANGLE ON:  Ike.  His conflicted feelings are apparent.  With

difficulty, Maggie straightens up and they both quickly remove

their hands.

They look at each other for a moment, then:

She climbs over the fence on her own and Ike follows.  They see

an old guy, LIONEL, whittling on a porch.

EXT. FISHER AND ELLIE'S BUILDING - THE NEXT DAY

Establishing shot.

INT. FISHER AND ELLIE'S KITCHEN (NYC) - DAY

INT. IKE'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

INTERCUT BETWEEN TWO LOCATIONS:

Ike sits on his bed, on the phone, working and eating his

breakfast.  He's watching Maggie's wedding tape again.  Fisher

is cooking an elaborate breakfast.  Ellie rushes around getting

ready for work.  He is on the phone to Ike.

Ellie enters the kitchen, hears the question and shakes her head

to herself.  If only these boys would give it up.

INT. IKE'S HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

He is finding it very hard to gloat.  Fisher is annoying him.

Ike hangs up and watches more of the George Swilling wedding

video.

INT. NEW YORK BAR - DAY

The bar from the opening scene.  GEORGE SWILLING, the same man

Ike talked to before, is sitting on a stool, nursing his drink.

He looks better.  Ike enters.  George looks up and recognizes

Ike, who takes the bar stool next to him.

Ike sits and leans over to George.

Ike wipes the smirk off his face.  Like Maggie's other men, this

guy has a worthy accomplishment under his belt.

Ike sips his drink before answering.

George heads out.

As George pauses in the doorway, Ike holds up his tape recorder.

George exits.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET/FISHER AND ELLIE'S BUILDING - DAY

Ike walks down a street toward Ellie and Fisher.

INT. FISHER AND ELLIE'S APARTMENT (NYC) - NIGHT

Ellie is on the phone as Fisher enters with beer.  Ike sits at

the piano.

Fisher doesn't like the sound of this.  He glances at Ellie, who

is looking very interested.

The phone rings as Fisher exits.  Ike goes to the piano as Ellie

picks up the phone.

She joins Ike at the piano.  Ike gets serious.

He hugs her.

Ellie blinks back sentimental tears.

EXT. TROUT'S BARN - THE NEXT NIGHT

We hear Hawaiian music.  We see a truck with GUESTS drive up and

HULA DANCERS through barn slats.

INT. TROUT'S BARN - NIGHT

It's a small barn that's been converted into a luau with a bar.

A BAND plays for two hula dancers.  The Trouts had decorated it

as a little slice of Hawaii.  There are tiki lights, numerous

rented plastic palm trees and fiberglass copies of Hawaiian

statuary.  Strings of colored lights crisscross the ceiling.

It looks like a Hawaiian high school gym on prom night.

Maggie's family, Mrs. Trout and people we've already met, and

more, are here, milling around wit tropical drinks garnished

with umbrellas.  Plastic leis abound and most people have

managed to find their old Hawaiian shirts.

As we come in, the hula dancers finish their applause and Mrs.

Trout announces.  Hula dancers stop.

The couple enters.  Bob is a goody bronzed god in his King

Kamahamela outfit.  Maggie is spectacular in her authentic

looking Hawaiian Princess get-up.  But her face reflects none

of the festivities around her.  Every now and then, she looks up

and glances around for Ike, hating herself for it.

Maggie and Bob start to dance as the Quarter sings "Aloha Oe."

Everybody dances.

Maggie and Bob pose for pictures with some of the guests.

Dennis poses with Maggie.  Cory poses with Bob.  Mrs. Trout runs

out of film and goes to get more, leaving Peggy and Maggie alone.

Peggy whispers to Maggie.

ANGLE ON:  Ike just entering the party.  At least he tried.

He's got a tropical sheet wrapped around his pants and shirt.

He walks to the bar and is greeted warmly by Lee.  Maggie gets

very flustered.

Maggie dances affectionately with Bob as Mr. Trout, tending

bar, greets Ike.

A LITTLE LATER - CLOSE ON

A pair of expressive pantomime "A Little Grass Shack".

PULL BACK TO REVEAL:

Mrs. Trout is on stage, introducing hula contestants.  Grandma

judges the Hawaiian dancing.  The party is at full tilt -- a

little wild, a little goofy.  Some guests (Bob, Cindy, Cory, Lee

and Ted) do the limbo.  Walter, Mrs. Pressman doesn't turn as

she hears him.

Ike leans into Maggie, enjoying the smell of her hair.  She

notices, but acts casual.

All the guests start banding their pineapple cups.  Walter rises

unsteadily, lifting his pineapple.

Lou Trout stands with his glass raised.

There are shouts of "Hear hear!"  Walter roars.

The laughter swells and swells, led by Walter.

ANGLE ON:

Ike watches as Maggie takes the heat, raising her glass along

with the others.  Bob raises his glass like the good sport he is.

Ike can't believe it.

Walter gets a bit laugh.  He goes again.

Maggie finishes the punchline along with his father.

Uproarious laughter.  Maggie looks terribly pained.  Ike's had

enough.  He pushes himself to his feet.  Walter is thrilled.  He

shushes the CROWD.

Ike watches their reaction.  The silence is deafening.  All the

guests stare at Maggie.  Mortified, she holds back tears.

She gets everyone up to hula.  Band plays fast tune.  Maggie

walks through the CROWD down the steps and outside.  Ike

follows, but Peggy grabs a coat for her.  Bob watches her go as

Cory approaches.

Bob rushes after Maggie.

Ike exits.  Then, Bob comes over.

Cory comes over with Dennis to Bob and Peggy.  BOB/PEGGY/CORY/

DENNIS CHUFFA:  About Bart Starr and football.  (Which keeps Bob

from going outside to follow Maggie).  Bob thinks about it.

EXT. TROUT'S BARN - NIGHT

Ike runs after Maggie.  He grabs her arm and turns her to him.

Maggie has no response.

He's laid her flat.  Maggie can't speak.

She fights back angry tears.

ANGLE ON:  Bob comes outside.

Both Maggie and Ike are breathing hard.  Bob comes up to Maggie

and gives Ike a very hard look as he puts his arm around his

fiancee.

Maggie adjusts her face as best she can.

She lets him lead her away.

Ike looks at her drooped shoulder and he shakes his head and

walks to his car.

EXT. HALE METHODIST CHURCH - THE NEXT DAY

Peggy and Cindy arrive for the rehearsal.  They leave Cindy's

dog in Peggy's car and walk to the church.

INT. HALE METHODIST CHURCH - NIGHT

They are in the church proper now.  Peggy waits in a pew as Bob

leads Maggie and Ike up the back steps of the church.

Maggie turns on Ike with "cheerful" hostility.

Maggie smiles at Bob.  Ike sighs and goes with it.  Bob pulls Ike

to the head of the aisle and places him.  Peggy follows Maggie

into the foyer to get ready.  Cindy sits with Ted at the organ.

Cindy leaves to join the girls in the foyer.

INT. CHURCH FOYER - THAT MOMENT

Once in the privacy of the foyer, Peggy and Maggie talk.

Cindy joins them.

Maggie puts her hands up.

Peggy and Cindy exit.  Maggie pulls the bell rope and sways back

and forth as she rings the bell.

INT. CHAPEL - THAT MOMENT

It is Maggie's turn to enter.  They all turn expectantly.  Too

much time passes.  Ted plays the organ, then stops.  Maggie

swings back and forth in the foyer doorway.

Maggie stops ringing the bell and pulls herself together.  She

walks into the aisle looking a little shaky.  She takes a few

tremulous steps slowly with her eyes closed, peeking

occasionally with one eye.

He begins to pace.

Bob goes to Maggie and walks behind her.

ANGLE ON:

Maggie walking.

She proceeds down the aisle.  Bob behind her.

ANGLE ON:

Maggie raises her eyes and sees Ike in front of her as groom.

Ike and Maggie lock gazes.  If they had to, they couldn't look

away.  All the things unspoken are now communicated -- the love,

the longing.

Maggie's pace quickens.

ANGLE ON:

Bob beams to see Maggie's eager arrival at Ike's side.  He

switches off the music and proceeds like a proud coach to be the

pastor.

Ike kisses Maggie.  It is a world class, Olympic kiss.  It is a

kiss that changes everything and can never be taken back.  It is

a kiss you only get once in your life.

NEW ANGLE:

Bob's smile dies.  Cindy's mouth drops open as the kiss goes on

and on.  Peggy loses control and screams.

Like a bucket of water thrown on two dogs, Ike and Maggie are

startled out of their kiss.  They pull apart and smile at each

other.

ANGLE ON:  Bob.

Maggie looks at Ike, wondrous, confused.

Bob hauls back and punches Ike in the face.  Ike drops.

Bob storms down the aisle and out of the church.

Maggie leaves.

EXT. CHURCH - THAT MOMENT

Bob is halfway down the walk.  Maggie appears at the church door

and calls after him.

He keeps marching.  Now Peggy appears next to Maggie.  Maggie

calls again.

The words are barely out of her mouth when Cindy comes out the

door, racing after Bob at a full sprint.

Peggy goes to her car.  Cindy joins her as Bob speeds off in his

car.  Now Ike takes Peggy's place next to Maggie.  Maggie turns

to face Ike.  They are both beet red, stammering and unable to

look at each other, trying to act normal.

Ike GRABS Maggie and BOOM -- they are all over each other,

kissing frantically, tongues, hands, hair, elbow, you name it.

Blathering fools.

They come up for air.

Maggie sits on the railing, then Ike backs up and sits on the

opposite railing.

Ike backs up to opposite railing and sits facing Maggie.

They both nod and sit there smiling, sort of. The organist, Ted,

closes the church door.

Ike pulls his tape recorder out of his pocket and quietly speaks

into it.

WIDE SHOT:

They smile at each other and remain sitting.  Then, silence.

EXT. STREET/HALE/ATLANTIC HOTEL - THAT NIGHT

Ike drives up and parks in front of the hotel as he talks on his

cell phone.

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. FISHER AND ELLIE'S BEDROOM (NYC) - NIGHT

Ellie's on the phone.  Fisher sits nearby.

Fisher throws himself onto the carpet and rolls himself

helpless with laughter.

INT. BEAUTY SALON - NIGHT DAY

Maggie talks to Peggy, Cindy and Grandma Julia.  Grandma Julia

sits under a hair dryer.  Sprout, the dog, sits in his basket.

Peggy laughs.

LOVE MONTAGE SHOTS:

EXT. OCEAN - DAY

Ike and Maggie fishing.

INT. MAGGIE'S WORKSHOP/HOME - DAY

They play ping-pong.  They laugh, enjoying the moment.

INT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - DAY

Ike and Maggie have fun playing cards.  The game is slapjack.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

Maggie and Ike horseback riding.  They sit on their horses

amongst trees, "nuzzling".  Ike reads as he pushes Maggie in a

tire swing.

INT. MAGGIE'S ROOM - DAY

Ike and Maggie open and close a Hoberman ball by holding its

opposite ends in their teeth.  Grandma looks in.

INT. MAGGIE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

There is a fire in the fireplace.  Maggie and Ike sit as Ike

shows Maggie some passages from his favorite books.  He's

reading something from Yeats at the moment.  They seem happy.

EXT. CHURCH - THE DAY OF THE WEDDING

It is a media circus including FOUR REPORTERS, Midday with

Meredith and the T-shirt Vendor.  Plus three other people the

reporters are interviewing, a GERMAN LADY, BUTCH KENAN, a

farmer and Grandma Julia.  Reporter DINA NAPOLI walks down the

church steps.

Meredith, the low-end public access TV reporter, films himself

pointing a cheap video camera himself.

The NY T-shirt Vendor pitches his wares.

Reporter JULIE MURPHY stands near Grandma Julia and Mrs.

Pressman.

Reporter JACKI and TIFFANY stand at the edge of the CROWD

reporting.

EXT. WINDOW OF CHURCH/INT. SUNDAY SCHOOL ROOM - DAY

INSERT window of church.  Peggy peers out the window at the

carnival scene.  Cindy sits with Maggie as she leans forward,

doubled over on a child's chair.  Peggy moves from the window to

sit with them.

They ad lib various words starting with the letter "V".  Maggie

is nervous.

Maggie rubs her ears.

After they rub Maggie's ears a bit:

They all squeeze and peer out window.  They scream in excitement.

Cindy rushes to Maggie's wedding dress.

Peggy moves to help Cindy with the dress.  Maggie stands alone at

the window a moment.  She picks up a toy horse.

Maggie goes over to Peggy and Cindy, and starts to get into her

bridal gown.  They continue to ad lib words standing with the

letter "V".

INT. IKE'S CAR - DAY

Ike pulls up slowly.  GUESTS peer through the his car window and

wave.  Ike rubs his headache.

IKE'SPOV:

He moves as he takes it all in:  a FAMILY eats a fast food picnic

on a neighbor's lawn, invited GUESTS flock by in their party

best, and local NEWS TEAMS block the way.  The STATE SENATOR is

making a speech welcoming the press to Maryland.  A large GROUP

of reporters head up the church's stairs, hauling their

equipment.  They enter the flood of PEOPLE streaming inside the

church.  Ike snaps.

EXT. IKE'S CAR - CONTINUING

Ike stops the car where it is and jumps out, slamming the door in

anger.  The REPORTERS swarm around him as he gets out of the car.

They continue to pound him with questions as he walks to church

steps.  An OLDER LADY smacks him on the shoulder with a

newspaper.  He turns in astonishment and continues up the

steps.  He charges up the stairs and grabs Lee.

Mrs. Pressman stands, shooting Ike with her video camera.

Ike retreats into the church.  Lee comes up to him again with his

video camera:  CHUFFA about Scorsese.

INT. CHURCH - CONTINUING

As Fisher and Ellie sign the guest book, a LOCAL LADY stares at

Ellie.  Ellie stares back at her until she leaves.  Ike walks

away from Lee and turns smack into Ellie and Fisher.  Ike puts

his arms around them and gives them a big hug.

Over Ellie's shoulder, Ike sees Fisher's grinning face.

Ellie whispers in his ear.

Ellie kisses him on the cheek and walks away.

ANGLE ON:

Bob comes up to Ike.  He looks like he's going to punch Ike, then

abruptly holds out a rose boutonniere.

Bob hands the flower to Ike.  Ike is shaking.  Bob catches this

and looks up to Ike.  It is a moment of clean honesty between the

men.

He takes the boutonniere and puts it on Ike's lapel.

Bob turns and leaves, going down a side staircase.

Out of the corner of his eye, Ike sees a pictures of Christ on the

wall.  He leans into the picture and whispers.

He walks into the chapel.

INT. CHAPEL - CONTINUING

Ike steps up and stands next to Fisher.

Ike gives the ring to Fisher.  The Pastor approaches Ike.  Ike

turns away and look out over the guests.

IKE'SPOV:  There are most of the TOWNSPEOPLE we've come to

know, plus some NEW YORKERS for Ike, with little ponytails.

Armani wire rims, Donna Karan bodysuits.  There's a lot of

smirking, checking out the hicks, forming their stories for

cocktail hour.  Elaine is in back all dressed in black, mourning

Ike.  Mrs. Trout approaches Ike.

Mrs. Trout starts picking lint off Fisher's jacket.

INT. CHURCH FOYER - DAY

Peggy joins Maggie, who is blowing bubblegum and swaying in

front of an oscillating fan.  Grandma and Walter come in.

Grandma gives her a kiss on the cheek.

Grandma leaves.  Walter steps up.

Peggy turns off the fan.  Cindy takes the bag from Maggie.

Maggie spits her bubblegum into the bag.  Peggy hands Maggie her

bouquet.

Cindy and Peggy nod and leave.  The door closes.

INT. CHAPEL - CONTINUING

Both extends his hand to Elaine.

The organ begins to play.  The organist is Ted.  Grandma, Walter,

Mrs. Pressman and the Trouts watch.  Mrs. Trout picks lint off of

her husband's jacket.

ANGLE ON:

Cindy and Peggy enter with the confident air of people who have

done this before.  They make it to the head of the aisle all too

quickly.  Peggy gives Ike a wink and an encouraging smile.

INT. CHURCH FOYER - CONTINUING

The door opens and Dennis sticks his head in.

Dennis closes the door behind him as he goes back into the

chapel.  Maggie has a moment alone.  She looks at back door as

possible escape route, then changes her mind.  She signals the

start of the wedding by knocking on the door.

INT. CHAPEL - CONTINUOUS

Immediately, Cory and Dennis open the doors for her entrance.

All the guests stand as Maggie enter the chapel smiling.

MAGGIE'S POV:

The aisle stretches before her into infinity.  Faces goggle at

her from every direction.  The tiny figure of Ike stands like a

beacon a long way off.

NEW ANGLE:

She plunges forward with a sped-up hesitation step.

ANGLE ON:

Ike rocks imperceptibly, urging her on.  Peggy and Cindy make

little "come on" motions.  It seems to be working.  Maggie

approaches rapidly.  The CROWD has turned from skepticism to

looks and noises of encouragement.

ANGLE ON: MAGGIE

But then her feet gradually begin to slow.

ANGLE ON:

Fisher gives a little "darn, so close" look.

ANGLE ON:

But Ike is too busy maintaining eye contact.  His eyes urge

Maggie closer -- loving her, willing her on.

CLOSE ON:

Maggie stops her walk, gives Ike a teasing smile, and then

resumes with her walk toward him.  His face.  Her face.  His

face.  Her face.

CLOSE ON:

Her foot inches forward.  The other follows.

NEW ANGLE:

A sigh now rises from the GUESTS as Maggie closes in on Ike.  He

smiles at her.  She smiles at him.  She is almost there... She's

there, smiling at Ike.  The Pastor gestures to the guests to sit

down.  They do.

ANGLE ON:

Ike sneezes.  She looks down and imagines she sees the carpet

splitting apart.  And she bolts like a bat out of hell!  In a

flurry of white, she is halfway down the aisle before Ike knows

what hits him.

ANGLE ON:

Ike stands there dazed.  For a second.  Then she springs into

action, charging after her.

Like a general, he points to Dennis and Cory in the back and

sends them into action.  The doors shut in Maggie's face.  But

she's a wild animal cornered.   She moves to the side.  The

TOWNSPEOPLE stand so Ike can hurry through the pew.  Ike climbs

on the pews towards her as GUEST crowd the aisle, blocking his

path.  Like a gazelle, she leaps to the side aisle and scampers

down and away.  Fisher gets on his cell phone.  Ike charges from

one of the full pews, crosses the aisle and leaps across the pews

near the staircase to cut her off.  He grabs her veil and it

comes off in his hands.  Maggie disappears down the steps of the

church basement.  Ike fumble with the veil and jumps over the

railing, landing on Dennis' toe.  He follows down the stairs

after her.  Mrs. Pressman and Walter exchange bet money.

INT. CHURCH BASEMENT - CONTINUING

Maggie comes down steps and enters the church children's Sunday

school class.  A lot of KIDS And TEACHERS are doing religious

arts and crafts.  As Maggie runs through:

She gives her bouquet to a little GIRL as she goes by.  Ike comes

down stairs.

The KIDS mob him, grabbing his pockets.  Ike fights his way

through KIDS.

ANGLE ON:

Maggie as she's in the church kitchen and hops on counter and

heads out the window.  The window is wide enough.

ANGLE ON:

Ike as he gets to the window, but Maggie is out in driveway.

EXT. CHURCH DRIVEWAY - CONTINUING

Maggie flies toward a FedEx truck at next house just leaving.

ANOTHER ANGLE:

She gathers her dress and jumps in as Ike yells from window,

then, quickly climbs out onto the lawn as the truck starts to

pull away.

Maggie looks back once, tearful and regretful, and disappears

inside the truck.  The truck races off.

The PHOTOGRAPHERS turn their cameras on Ike, en masse.  He is

enveloped by a barrage of bright lights.

Ellie and Fisher, who have also stepped outside on chapel front

steps, are looking around as Ike turns around the corner and

past the church.

They look after the FedEx truck and watch Ike chasing the truck

down the road away from the church.

Cindy, Cory, Peggy and Meredith also rush out of the church and

comment on Maggie's runaway.  Further down the road, Ike still

chases the truck, yelling:

As the truck rounds the bend in the road and disappears, Ike

stops and stares alone after the disappearing truck.  A swarm of

REPORTERS catch up to him, flashing pictures and asking

questions.  Another camera flashes and we cut to:

A NEWSPAPER PHOTO

Of Ike's stunned face on the cover of the USA Today.  The caption

reads: "Hit and Run:  Runaway Bride Strikes again".  And we see

headlines in other papers.

"MAGGIE'S MAD DASH"

"HARDWARE HONEY GOES NUTS AND BOLTS"

"JOURNALIST WRITTEN OFF"

"BRIDE TAKES HIKE...NOT IKE"

"BRIDE TAKE RIDE"

"MAGGIE SAYS I DON'T"

NEWSPAPER MONTAGE:

INT. NEW YORK BAR - DAY

Kevin, the bartender, reads Jay's column, in the USA Today

entitled "Maggie's Mad Dash".

EXT. USA TODAY LOADING DOCK - DAY

Various newspaper WORKERS also read Jay's column in the USA

Today entitled "Maggie Mad Dash" and "Hardware Honey Goes Nuts

and Bolts" in another newspaper.

FADE IN

EXT. MAIN STREET/HALE - NIGHT (1-5 MONTHS LATER)

It's a night like any other in Hale -- the regular order of

things has been restored on its quaint streets.  Quartet sings

in front of the hotel.  LEE AND CORY CHUFFA:  About where Peggy

is.

INT. HARDWARE STORE - NIGHT

Maggie is sitting, end of a long day.  Peggy sticks her head in

entrance door.

Peggy starts to go, then moves close to Maggie.

Peggy exits.  Maggie stares, losing herself in thought.  Then a

VOICE startles her.

Maggie jumps and turns to see:  DENNIS -- the kid from the high

school football team, popping up from a low position near the

counter.

Dennis takes the candy and starts to go.

Dennis exits.  Maggie is alone.  She turns out the lamp she

designed, then on again.  She turns off the other lamp on the

counter and exits.  We hold on Maggie's designed lamp.

INT. IKE'S HALLWAY AND APARTMENT - NIGHT

Ike walks up to his door, carrying his mail and a bag of

carryout.  He opens the door and walks into his apartment.  He

pets Italics, who sits on his sofa bed.  Without taking off his

coat, he goes to his keyboard and plays music as he CHUFFAS to

his cat about marriage and divorce.

INT. MAGGIE'S HOUSE - DAY

Dad and Grandma Julia are there.  Grandma is making lunch.

Walter is juggling oranges.  There's glass of beer on the

kitchen counter.

Maggie walks in and kisses Grandma on the cheek.

Walter laughs.

Walter looks at his daughter in surprise.  He's never heard a

tone like this in her voice before.

Maggie takes a plate and exits.

Walter reacts.

INT. IKE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Ike goes out on his terrace.  He bounces a basketball.  It

doesn't bounce.  He sits on the steps of the patio an stares.

INT. MAGGIE'S WORKROOM/GYM - DAY

Maggie is kickboxing.

INT. MAGGIE'S WORKROOM/GYM - ANOTHER DAY

Maggie is a bit melancholy as she works on her lamps.

INT. IKE'S APARTMENT - ANOTHER DAY

Ike quietly sits in bed writing and staring into space thinking.

His cat sits on the windowsill.

INT. MAGGIE'S WORKROOM/GYM - NIGHT

Maggie jumps rope barefooted late at night.

INT. MAGGIE'S KITCHEN - DAY

Maggie in front of plates full of all sorts of types of eggs --

scrambled, poached, sunny-side up, Benedict, soft boiled, etc

-- sits on the kitchen counter.  She ties them all.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY

Establishing shot.  Two MEN try to fix the engine of a taxi

outside the restaurant.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DUSK

Eke walks by the T-shirt Vendor, goes into a subway station.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET - DUSK

Ike crosses a busy street where a MAN is being arrested.  Ike is

passing the upscale "Millennium Hardware Store".  He glances at

the window, looks away, stops and looks again.  The window

display is made up of an assortment of Maggie's lamps.  Logo

"MAG" is on them.  He smiles and walks on.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK RESERVOIR - DUSK

Ike stares out at water as he walks.

EXT. IKE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Ike walks along sidewalk, crosses street, enters his building.

INT. IKE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Ike opens the door to his apartment and flicks on the lights.  He

crosses to hang his coat in the closet.  In the closet mirror, he

sees and is stunned to find:  MAGGIE, sitting on the couch

holding Italics, the cat.

He closes the closet and crosses to his desk.

Maggie smiles tenuously.  She's more than a little terrified.

He moves to the kitchen.

Ike looks at her.  Apparently the word "mad" is an understatement.

Ike looks at her again.

He starts putting cat food in a bowl.  The cat leaves Maggie's

side and starts to east.

Ike leaves the kitchen, turns on the balcony lights and re-enters

the living room from the balcony.

Ike moves away from her and sits on the steps near the balcony

window, listening.

Ike takes this in.  She's reaching him -- but then the defenses

go back up.  He turns to her.

Ike moves out to the balcony.  After a moment, Maggie follows him.

EXT. BALCONY/IKE'SAPARTMENT - NIGHT

The balcony overlooks Central Park.  The twinkling lights of the

city stretch out across the beautiful night.  Ike looks out at

the view with his back to Maggie as she speaks.

Ike has no response.

She hesitates.

She returns to the balcony and hands him the box.

He opens it.  It's her running shoes.

Now she is glowing at him, shining with the full force of her.

Maggie glances around and spots a DECK CHAIR, which she turns so

it is facing the city lights.  Then she softly says:

Ike sits.  Maggie takes the box from him and puts it aide.  And

then she gets down on one knee.

Maggie smiles up at him.  Ike tips his head back and covers his

eyes with his hand.

He smiles as he looks at Maggie.

Ike swallows, overwhelmed, overjoyed, and scared shitless.

Maggie hops cheerfully back to her feet.

She gets off her knees and stands.

Ike takes her hands affectionately.

Ike looks into Maggie's shining face and pauses.  He gets up and

motions with his hand for her to stay seated.  He goes inside and

turns on some music.  The cat is sitting by the radio.  He

returns to the balcony and takes Maggie's hand.

They start to dance a slow dance.

EXT. LARGE GREEN FIELD - DAY

We see a hill and on top of it is a Pastor marrying Maggie and

Ike, in beautiful wedding attire.  We see Maggie walk down a

leaf-lined aisle to a waiting Ike.  They kiss as we hear the vows

and hear them each say "I do".  They kiss a twirling, whirling

kiss, a circular kiss.  We hear the applause of about twenty

people.  Slowly, we see the twenty people come over the crest of

the hill.  They are all Maggie's family and friends, plus the

old grooms.  They are all paired in twos, like a love Noah's ark.

We see others get the news.

INT. CHURCH - DAY

Priest Brian hears about Maggie's wedding.

INT. BAKERY - DAY

Mrs. Trout hears about Maggie's wedding.

INT. NEW YORK BAR - DAY

George, Groom #3, hears about Maggie's wedding.

INT. ELLIE'S OFFICE OR APARTMENT - DAY

Ellie and Fisher hear about Maggie's wedding.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

ANOTHER ANGLE:

Maggie and Ike finally break the kiss.  Ike takes her hand and

walks her to two horses.  Ike and Maggie, on the two horses, ride

off happily in their wedding clothes.  As the group cheers,

Maggie throws bouquet.  We see it float in the air.

--------------------------------------------------------------

