The Woman's wearing a crucifix.     She indicates it.

Smiles.

A sea of young white faces. A jock entertains the troops

with two straws up his nose. Sara sits next to her best

friend, LINDSAY, 17. Lindsay, chomping on a wad of gum,

turns from the jock to Sara with a bubble in bloom,

bursts it with her teeth.

Lindsay grabs Sara's hand and bows her head.      Sara,

embarrassed, aligns her head with Lindsay's.      She's

praying nobody sees them.

Sara exits with a bouquet of roses, takes the steps two

and three at a time. Glynn's waiting in a flower van at

the curb.

Sara and Glynn. The back of the van is filled with

flower arrangements. Glynn takes note of the roses in

Sara's hand.

Sara looks through the windshield.   It's starting to

drizzle.

Sara looks at her and Glynn instantly feels guilty.

CONTINUOUS ACTION

Glynn pulls the van into the parking lot. Smiles at

Sara. Sara doesn't smile back. She's too angry. Too

scared.

A moment. They look at each other. Sara finally smiles.

They embrace and she hops out the van. Glynn calls after

her.

Feigning sleep. From the corner of her eye, she watches

the Woman beside her flip through the American Ballet

Magazine. We move back in time through their pages.

ROOM - DAY

Sara, in costume, flips through a magazine. She taps her

toes, checks her watch. A phalanx of parents and dancers

are clustered around a sign posted on the door:

JUILLIARD SCHOOL OF DANCE AUDITIONS. Sara stares at it.

Re-checks her watch. An official with a clipboard walks

toward her. Where's her mother?

MOMENTS LATER

Sara on stage. She looks past a row of Juilliard JUDGES

into the audience. No glint of gold. MOZART'S "Elvira

Madigan" (Andante) CUES UP. Sara begins her technical.

She transforms her nervousness into a notable, powerful

performance. The Judges are mutely but clearly

impressed. One of them looks directly at her.

Sara's stomach drops to her feet. Her mother's not there

and her free form sucks and she doesn't have a theme.

Shit!

The Judges exchange a look. New MUSIC CUES UP. Some

driving, CLASSICAL NUMBER.   Sara tries to elevate her

body above the music, but she's nervous, unsure on her

feet. She keeps glancing in the back of the auditorium

for Glynn. Searching for her port in the storm.

Wondering where her mother is and knowing how badly she's

dancing. Knowing but somehow continuing, stumbling,

recovering, and finally finishing with those damned

knocking knees. The Judges, eyes like stones,

perfunctorily nod. Their equivalent of maybe next year.

Sara chokes two words out...

... Rushes backstage. Fighting tears, she hurries past

waiting dancers angrily unhooking the clover leaf chain

from her neck.

Sara in street clothes. Cramming her ballet gear into a

duffle bag when the official (of the clipboard)

approaches her. She touches Sara's shoulder gently.

Says something we do not hear.

SHOOTING THROUGH office window. A state trooper in a

rain slicker offers Sara a chair. She sits. The trooper

talks. As he does, dread and disbelief spread over

Sara's face. She shakes her head, attempts to stand.

Her legs buckle beneath her. The trooper and the

official catch her as she falls.

A glowing moon in a clear, star-specked sky.

CHUGS toward Baltimore's Penn Station, which is visible

in the f.g.

A torrential rain. A flower van -- Glynn's van -- caught

in it. SHOOTING THROUGH the driver's side window, we can

see Glynn's face, intense and determined, squinting

through the downpour.

GRINDING.

Hydro-planing, slip-sliding.

It's SQUEAL OF BRAKES as it maneuvers into the station.

The SQUEAL of its BRAKES as Glynn loses control and

smashes into the back of the eighteen wheeler in front of

her.

across space and time, the SOUND OF SQUEALING BRAKES

commingle as the Amtrak Commuter pulls into Penn Station.

Sara. Holding her breath, clenching her fists. Waiting

for the sound to stop, oblivious to the stare of the

Woman beside her.

ROY JOHNSON, 37, a handsome, laconic man of uncertain

style, takes a last drag from his cigarette, drops and

stomps it. Passengers disembark from the train. Roy

searches their faces. They all look like strangers.

A conductor helps Sara to the platform. Steam from the

train's engine is sucked into the fog. She walks through

it. Sees him. They see each other. Roy weakly waves.

Walks toward her. Sara watches his bow legs stiffly

advance. She wants to run. Can't.

Sara self-consciously tucks her hair behind an ear.

A beat.   Roy looks at her.

Roy takes her backpack.     They walk.

A heavy silence. Roy starts to turn on the radio, stops

himself. He lights a cigarette, cracks the window.

Roy takes another drag, nods thoughtfully to himself.

Sara peers out    the windshield. Baltimore City. The

neighborhoods    are changing. The streets are getting

progressively    gritty and dirty. It surprises her. It

worries her.     Roy worries her.

Sara looks askance at him, her expression indicating

otherwise. A moment. Roy's too new at this to hold up

both ends of the conversation. The silence deepens. Roy

switches on the radio.

Roy's truck pulls up to a string of disrepaired rowhouses

with pristine white marble steps. He and Sara each lug a

suitcase from the truck. Her eyes wander up and down the

street. They're on the fringes of a ghetto. A few

people roost on their stoops, hang on the corners. All

of them have black faces.

The second floor of a two-story house has been turned

into a one-bedroom studio. A partition separates the

living area from the bedroom. Sara walks past a

collection of saxophones and several framed pictures of

herself. Aside from the saxophones and the pictures,

there's hardly any furniture. Roy lights a cigarette.

Suitcase in hand, Sara walks around the partition. Her

"room" is an old futon, an ancient set of drawers. She

stands in the middle of nothing, wanting something to do.

She removes framed photos of Glynn from her backpack,

places them around the room.

Sara walks in.   Doesn't see Roy.   Calls out.

Roy emerges from the bathroom drying his hands, walks

past her.

She's a wall. A brick wall. Roy's head aches from

knocking into it. He goes to the couch. Drops down.

Mutters at her.

Sara lying in bed... wide awake... her stiff upper lip

quivering. She slips out of bed, creeps on tiptoes into

the bathroom. Closes the door oh-so-quietly behind her.

She flips on the light, crosses to the sink, turns on

both faucets. As the water flows and the PIPES RATTLE,

the brick wall shatters. Sara crumbles to the floor.

Buries her head in her arms. Cries like a baby.

NEXT MORNING

Roy and Sara. Barreling through the south end, tongues

stuck in gear. A Pop-Tart grows cold on Sara's lap.

Then, finally.

Sara looks out the window at a full-fledged ghetto. It's

all to obvious, the hang of things. Roy glances over at

her.

Roy can hear the lie behind her words.      The pain too. He

lights a cigarette, cracks the window.      He wants to say

the right thing.

Formidably large and surprisingly well-kept, Patterson

serves the nearby, predominantly black O'Donnell Heights

Projects. Kids malinger outside on the front steps and

lawn.

Roy's pickup pulls in. Roy CUTS the ENGINE. Sara looks

at him. Or through him. She won't let his eyes connect.

Roy regards her with weary resignation.   Sara climbs out.

He calls after her.

Sara moving TOWARD us PAST a floating mosaic of black

faces. This is a near out-of-body experience for her.

She walks like a well-rehearsed soldier in a stiff

straight line to the school's entrance. It's clogged

with students. Inside the doorway, two security guards

flank a metal detector. When it's Sara's turn to pass

through, one of the guards grabs her backpack and

wordlessly begins searching it. He hands it back to her

on the other side of the detector where Sara stands

obtusely and mutely amazed.

THROUGH a window, Sara seated across from an

ADMINISTRATOR. We PUSH IN.

There's a KNOCK at door. MRS. GWYNN, the Guidance

Counselor, steps in. The Administrator introduces her to

Sara. Sara regards Mrs. Gwynn with polite petulance.

Mrs. Gwynn looks at her squarely. But the brick wall

doesn't move an inch. Sara feels too safe behind it.

Clutching new textbooks, Sara starts down the hallway.

She's hoping nothing in her face reveals the rising panic

in her heart. She's surrounded. Alone. Every inch of

her feels afraid.

SARA'S POV

as she MOVES FORWARD. A crush of KIDS -- mostly black

with a sprinkling of white and Latino faces thrown in.

Kids like her. Only they don't dress like her. They

dress like commercials for Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin

Klein. And they definitely don't sound like her...

Sara walks on, taking this netherworld in, eavesdropping

on other conversations. It's not just the words. It's

how they say them: Loud. Matter-of-fact. Cool. A

cooler cool. Like they breathe static electricity.

That's it! The entire student body is energized. Sara's

thoughts are jolted by two black girls squeezing by. One

clips Sara's elbow as she passes, knocking it against a

locker. They keep going as if they don't see her. No

one seems to see her. Welcome to mass avoidance at

Patterson High.

Sara's back is to a black girl striding purposefully

toward her. CHENILLE -- tall, pretty, with about a

million braids in her hair -- swoops Sara's backpack from

the floor. Thrusts it at her.

She closes her locker, starts to say something else.

She's eager to make a friend. One friend. But

Chenille's gone.

Sara memorizes the schedule of classes in her hand. She

passes a clutch of students who surround a kid in the

middle like a horseshoe. Sara gets a fleeting glimpse of

him.

SARA'S POV - PATRICK REYNOLDS

Eye candy: Tall. Dark. Heartbreakingly handsome. If

Patterson were a monarchy, Patrick would be king. He

sure holds court like one, turning on his dazzling smile

and abundant charm for the crowd. One gets the sense

that the All-American Home Boy is almost as enraptured

with himself as the sycophants around him.

The room's seen better days. Probably better teachers

too. MR. JURASINSKI looks out at his American Literature

class and sees nothing but tenure.

WIDER to include the class. FAVOR "SNOOKIE" RICARD. We

recognize him from the hallway kids wrapped up in

Patrick. Snookie, a flagrant Patrick wannabe, sits next

to him now. He removes his baseball cap. Thoughtfully

twirls it on a finger. He truly believes he's being

profound.

No volunteers. Jurasinski looks for someone to put on

the spot. Sees the new girl in a back corner. Johnson.

He gets into her line of sight. The class shifts in

their seats, peeping her.

Everyone looks at her.        The way kids look at new kids.

A small murmur goes up.        Over this, the voice of a

dissenter.

Sara cranes to see him. God. It's pretty-boy. He's

sitting on the other side of the classroom. Looking...

pretty. Looking at her. He has nice eyes. Not that she

noticed.

A defensive save.      Patrick sees right through it.

The room erupts in laughter.

ON SARA

flushed in the face.      Embarrassed.     Pissed.

ANGLE WIDENS as Jurasinski quiets the class.           Then.

Lunchtime. PICK UP Sara among a cattle drive of

boisterous students.

Hundreds of voices unleashed in pure, unadulterated

teenage cacophony. Sara's in a queue of kids, working

her way down the line.

She's as invisible and anonymous as ever. CAMERA TRACKS

her FROM the line, TO the cashier, INTO the heart of the

dining hall. She stands with a food tray, looking for a

place to sit.

HER POV

Table cliques of the cafeteria.

SERIES OF SWEEPING SHOTS

Two tables pushed together.    Full.

Barely, pathetically populated but surprisingly diverse.

Loud, overflowing, fun.    King Patrick and his loyal

subjects horse around.

Over which a glacial beauty we will come to know as NIKKI

DAVIS presides. Girls only.

Notable for its glaring absence of color.    A girl we will

come to know as TONI sits there.

And then PUSHING IN ON --

She's there with a group of girls who eschew pretense.

They, like Chenille, are rugged and regular. They know

who they are.

END OF SERIES OF SWEEPING SHOTS.

eyeing Chenille's table. Screwing up courage as she

approaches it. She gets there but two black girls are

faster. They sit down in the only empty seats. Sara

backs off, invisible again.

ON CHENILLE

glimpsing Sara from the corner of her eye as Sara walks

away.

Time has    passed. The cafeteria is half as full, half as

noisy.     Sara sits among the NERDS, a friendly if verbose

group.     She's trying to eat but a snooze button is

talking    her to death...

Sara looks up, surprised to see Chenille standing there.

She flashes a knowing smile at her, indicates Sara's

tray.

Sara leaps up with a quick, grateful nod. Beats a hasty

retreat from the table. As she and Chenille walk through

the cafeteria, Sara shudders with relief. She feels

rescued.

Sara follows Chenille into the "QUAD," four squared off

sections outside the cafeteria. There are a few dry-

rotted picnic tables scattered around. Other kids -- and

they run the gamut -- are seen in clots, sneaking

smokes... horsing around... making out.

SARA'S POV - KIDS OF QUAD

And OVER the sound of HIP-HOP MUSIC, a pair of feet.

Moving. Dancing. CAMERA PANS UP to reveal Nikki. She's

demonstrating some moves to the girls from the popular

table. Nikki's dancing her ass off, showing off.

BACK TO SCENE

She trails off as she catches someone in the corner of

her eye. She turns away from Chenille, gradually

focusing on --

PATRICK

playing cards with Snookie at one of the picnic tables.

He glances up to see Sara. Glowering at him. He grins.

Sara rolls her eyes, turns away.      Mutters loudly to

herself.

Chenille waits for Sara to swallow her tongue.     Enjoys a

laugh.

ANGLE SHIFTS TO PATRICK

as Nikki approaches him. Sexy, standoffish and

conceited, she's the stuff of wet dreams and futile

longing. She sits down next to Patrick. Close to him.

Snookie watches her, much amused.

Patrick keeps playing his hand.     Responds very coolly.

Fighting words. Snookie holds his breath. Patrick

throws out a card, turns slowly to Nikki with a withering

stare in his eyes.

She stalks off. Snookie oogles her departure, peers at

Patrick, about to say something. Patrick cuts him off,

indicates cards.

THEIR POV

MALAKAI RHINEHART, 17, heading toward them. Powerfully

built and edgy with insolence, Malakai is like a tightly-

wound coil -- you never know when he's going to snap.

ANGLE WIDENS and we see Patrick is happy to see him. He

and Malakai grin at each other. Knock handshakes.

Snookie haughtily, comedically obliges.        A moment.

Short-hand. Patrick understands it, nods. Malakai slips

the cigarette from behind his ear, openly lights and

starts smoking it. CAMERA TRACKS them walking back

toward Patterson.

A flash of commiseration, of guilt, crosses Patrick's

face. They're at the doors now. Most of the kids have

gone. Malakai puts his cigarette out on the floor as

they step in.

Sara exits with Chenille. A CAR HORN starts to blare.

Both of them ignore it. But it goes on like a musical

number. Sara gets a sinking feeling that drops like a

stone when she looks across the street. Roy's parked at

the curb, waiting for her. She rolls her eyes and he

HONKS AGAIN. Then he waves at her. Waves! Chenille

looks at Sara. Then at Roy.

Sara climbs in, slams the door. Roy looks over at her,

unaware of how annoyed she is with him. She's a clenched

fist inside.

Sara's moving the partition around, trying to make her

room more like a room. Trying to build another wall

between her and Roy.

Sara lets out a heavy sigh.        What does he want?

She walks into the kitchen. Roy's in front of the open

freezer door. Grinning from ear to ear. He motions her

over. Sara crosses to the freezer. Looks inside.

INSERT - INSIDE FREEZER

It's full of frozen dinners.       They're in unruly, lopsided

stacks.

BACK TO SCENE

Roy regards her expectantly.

Roy, deflated, closes the freezer door, trails her into

the living area. Sara's clenching again. There's no

escaping him.

Roy's gone. Sara takes her first good look around. A

mess. It drives home where she is. What she's lost.

It's overwhelming.

DINNER TRAY - NIGHT

An empty beer bottle, one askew kitchen chair. Vestiges

of Roy's meal. ANGLE WIDENS as Sara enters. She opens

the freezer to unearth a dinner and starts an avalanche

of falling food. A box of Sugar Puffs cereal lands at

her feet. Something else out of place. She picks it up,

jams everything back into the freezer. Slams the door

shut.

in a whirlwind, cleaning the apartment. Wall to wall.

Scrubbing away what's churned up inside. The dervish

ends in her "room," where she finishes unpacking.

Several layers into a suitcase, she comes to her ballet

shoes. The sight hits her like a slap in the face. Sara

stares at the shoes until her eyes blur. Then she

snatches them up and entombs them deep inside her closet.

MORNING

Patrick, Chenille, Snookie straggle through the dreary

jungle of concrete lawns and blighted high rises on the

way to school. It's quiet now but the scars of past

battles, like the bombed out police substation on one of

its corners, are evident everywhere.

Snookie glances at Patrick.       He's somewhere else.

Patrick finally laughs. Then his face changes. Becomes

serious. He hops a low wall, keeps in stride above them.

They continue on like this, the ruins of their world in

the b.g. behind them.

The bus is crammed with kids. Sara, seated by a window,

doesn't bother looking out. Inside's more interesting.

The kids cut up. Singing, rapping, and jousting with

each other. Some even manage to read. Sara watches with

immunity. She's invisible to them.

Sara alights just as Patrick, Chenille, and Snookie walk

past. Patrick's the only one to see her and their eyes

briefly connect.

CONTINUOUS ACTION

Patrick and Chenille pass through metal detectors, watch

Snookie clown his way through. The security guard shakes

his head. All three begin to walk. Snookie, bobbing and

jiving, doesn't see Mrs. Gwynn coming up from behind.

Her voice stops him cold.

She moseys on.   Snookie regards Patrick's smile, shakes

his head.

The class has donned lab coats and is ready   to begin when

Sarah rushes in. She tries to slink into a    seat. The

teacher, MR. HILL, gives her a disapproving   look, points

at one of several formulas (C2,H6,O2) on the   blackboard.

Sara just looks at him

Patrick bounces a smile off unsettled Sara.     This should

be fun.

The class, in safety goggles and gloves, has partnered

up.

ANGLE ON SARA AND PATRICK

He's holding two vials. Sara picks up a beaker. Stares

at the blackboard. She has no idea -- and no intention

of admitting it.

She glints at him, grits through her teeth.

She puts the beaker down. Picks up a vial. Flips

through her textbook. Her eyes shift from it to the

blackboard, trying to make a connection. She settles on

one. Picks up a vial of powder. Patrick grabs her hand,

leans over and whispers.

Patrick pulls back, looks at her. He can't believe she

dissed him. A small smile forms on his face. Sara turns

away from it, goes back to her vials. Patrick slides to

the farthest end of the table. Watches her consternation

with bemusement.

Sara thinks he's messing with her. But then the contents

of the beaker begin to ominously bubble. Panicked, she

drops the vial into their sink. It instantly goes up in

smoke. Some of the liquid splashes on Sara's lab coat.

Patrick grabs a wet towel, quickly wipes it off. The

class stops cold. Hill rushes up to them. Once he's

sure Sara's fine, he looks sternly at Patrick.

Patrick stares at Sara.     Her face is red.     She's biting

her lip.

Hill's tone is searing. He turns to     Sara. She's trying

to say something but the words won't    come out. Hill

regards her wearily, then walks off    pushing the curious

class back to their stations. Sara     looks at Patrick,

weakly mouths "thanks."

Over the sound of GRUNTING... OPEN CLOSE ON a girl's

plump ass. Squirming in too-tight gym shorts that hug

the cheeks. ANGLE WIDENS to reveal a stout white girl on

a balance beam. Trying to get her legs to stand up on

it. Hanging on for dear life. From somewhere around

her, a WHISTLE BLOWS.

WIDEN to see the teacher and her class (FAVOR Sara,

Chenille, and Nikki). Amid snickers, the stout girl

("DIGGY") slides off the beam, walks past the teacher

with her head demurely cast down. Clearing the teacher,

Diggy pivots around, both middle fingers in the air.

Gives up the double bird with much attitude. The class

loves it. Cheers it. Until the teacher swerves around.

Chenille on balance beam.    competent but average.

Nikki on balance beam.    Agile.   Self-assured.   Good.

... And then TIGHTER STILL on Sara. Tentatively

approaching the balance beam. Mindful of all the eyes on

her, all the bated breaths. All waiting to see the new

girl fall on her ass. Sara swings herself onto the beam

with aplomb. Her legs and body are strong, supple,

pliable rubber bands. She flounces across it on her

tiptoes. Does a flawless split. Hops off. Looks out.

SARA'S POV - TEACHER AND CLASS

Reacting with shock and surprise. Awed. Except for

Nikki. She stands there with her arms folded.

Simmering. Envious.

Sara. Heading down the steps with other students.

Chenille and Diggy break through the logjam, catch up to

her.

Chenille makes an impressed face.          Regards Sara

curiously.

Sara sees Snookie... then Patrick... loping her way. She

steels herself. He's going to say something, crack some

joke about her nearly blowing him up. But Patrick just

stares at her with a twinkle in his eyes. A nice

twinkle. Sara's not entirely immune to it. Chenille

breaks their eye play, pushes Patrick aside. She grabs

Snookie's arm, indicates Sara.

Sara glares.     Regards Snookie with a sweeping scowl.

Snookie's jaw drops. Patrick cracks up. Diggy too.

Chenille's stays on point. She's about solving the

problem.

Sara, put on the spot, pulls out the money.     Snookie

snatches it.

Snookie shrugs affirmatively. Patrick looks directly at

Sara. The twinkle in his eye is gone, replaced by fair

warning.

Roy walks in to see Sara on the futon in her pajamas

reading a book. She's got a head full of rollers.

Sara really looks up.   Gives him an angelic, sluggish

shrug.

He leaves. As soon as Sara hears the front DOOR CLOSE,

she jumps up, strips down to bra and panties, races to

the closet. One hand rips the rollers from her hair, the

other rips through outfits. She's frantic and unsure

about choosing the right one.

Sara. In a skin-tight miniskirt and a bolero jacket.

Looking more eighties than nineties, more cute than cool.

She walks with tentative, jittery purpose down this

poverty stricken street. Doesn't meet anyone's eye. But

can feel the eyes on her. She keeps going. She's walked

too far to turn back.

Approaching the malignant edifices as the Heights begin

to come to life... or death, depending how luck's

running. Sara walks into this world of shadows and

despite a trepidation, finds something fascinating about

the possibility of real danger.

Chenille triple unlocks the door, lets Sara in. Sara's

surprised -- the apartment is surprisingly quaint and

extremely neat. It looks a helluva lot better than Roy's

place. Chenille is dressed in hugely baggy military-

style pants and a tube top with a form-fitting, short-cut

leather coat over it. Sara takes it in.

Chenille gives her the once over.   Decides to lie.

FROM ANOTHER ANGLE

GRANDMOMMA DEAN enters with a toddler ("CHRISTOPHER") in

her arms. She sports snow white, waist-length dreads and

she's wearing a dashiki lounger. Despite her white

locks, she doesn't look old enough to be a grandmother.

She hands Christopher to Chenille. Inspects Sara. Her

eyes are open, kind.

Chenille kisses Christopher, hands him off to Momma Dean.

They exit. Sara looks tentatively at Chenille.

- NIGHT

They've been talking.   Well, Chenille has. Sara's been

listening. Intently.    Liking this confidence they're

sharing.

A curbed cab. Sara and Chenille get out. Chenille digs

into her pocketbook, hands Sara her I.D. PUSH IN ON

photo of obese white girl with an untamed trailer trash

perm. Sara's eyes go wide.

An unspoken thing passes between them. Chenille suddenly

whips off her coat. Gestures at Sara with her head.

Sara takes off the bolero. Chenille ties it around her

own neck, then yanks Sara's miniskirt down around her

hips. Sara's torso is clad in a long-sleeved cotton tee.

Chenille frowns at it.

Chenille thrusts her leather coat at her. Sara can't

believe what she's doing, getting (un)dressed on a public

street! She pulls off the tee, slips on Chenille's coat.

Buttons it as far as the buttons go. Looks down. Half

her chest is exposed.

Gaining on what looks like an abandoned warehouse.

Chenille snorts at the roped off queue of kids waiting to

get inside.

She leads Sara to the door of FEETZ. The Sumo-sized MAN

guarding it knows Chenille, digs her. His grin exposes

gold-capped teeth.

The Man grins, opens the rope, lets them in -- "in" being

just inside the front door. A BOUNCER there collects the

$10.00 cover charge. Checks their I.D. He hands Sara's

back with a smirk.

He waves a metal detector over their bodies, nods to yet

another bouncer who escorts Sara and Chenille through yet

another door.

They march a short distance to an old elevator where a

group of kids wait. Bouncer #2 engages the elevator.

Everyone piles in.

Sara holds onto her stomach as the CREAKY ELEVATOR

descends and the MUSIC below rises. The elevator's

vibrating with music.

A smoky hole in the wall, filled to the brim with kids.

Mostly black kids with a few whites and Latinos melting

in. They share a common goal: To clog the dance floor,

flaunt their outfits and get nasty with the music of the

masters: Tupac Shakur, NAS, Lauryn Hill, Puff Daddy,

etc. Here, the boundaries of dirty dancing are pushed,

from erotic to vulgar; loving to lascivious.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Sara and Chenille. Sara's excited. She loves that she

has to shout to be head over the music.

Sara's bewildered. She doesn't see any tables. She

follows Chenille to the back of FEETZ. Sees six or seven

tables. All of them have reserved signs. Most of them

are filled.

Chenille indicates the deejay booth.     Snookie's in it.

They walk past a SLACKER in lycra pants and a big Army

shirt. He licks his tongue at Chenille, grabs at her

protruding butt. She swirls around, grabs his crotch

hard enough to get his attention. The Slacker is

squirming in her clutch.

Chenille bobs her head right in his face. Sara can't

believe it. A few people have stopped and are looking.

The Slacker nods hastily. Chenille releases him, gently

smoothes out his shirt.

She and Sara continue on to back-of-the-club tables.

Stop at a reserved one. An adjacent table sports Nikki,

her three girl crew... and Diggy. All nurse drinks.

Nikki snake-eyes Sara.

The three girls and Diggy snicker. Nikki gives Chenille

a look. Turns back to Sara with a snide smirk. Points

out her crew.

Chenille cracks up mainly to back Sara up.       Nikki glowers

at her.

As Chenille bucks, Diggy springs up from her seat, runs

her arm in the space between Chenille and Nikki like a

referee.

Whatever shit it is, Nikki's not taking any       chances. She

ejects herself from the table, walks off.        The three

girls scoot loyally after her. Diggy gets        up. Sits down

at Sara's and Chenille's table. Diggy goes        with the

flow. That's why she always fits in.

Patrick and Malakai enter with two high school dropouts

we will learn are ARVEL and LIP. Females flock to flirt

with Patrick and Malakai, who both swell like sponges,

soaking up the attention.

Chenille pushes her way to the bar, tugging Sara along.

A tall, angular twenty-something MAN on the far side of

the bar sees her. She sees him. Sucks her teeth, nudges

Sara.

So of course Sara does. She makes a silly face at

Chenille as Kenny sidles up to her. Chenille rolls her

eyes half-heartedly.

She shakes her head firmly but her eyes do tell. She's

in love with him. Enough to let him whisper in her ear,

sweet-talk her away from the bar. Before she's swallowed

up by the crowd, Chenille turns back to Sara, shouts:

ON PATRICK

splitting off from Malakai and a girl clinging to him.

He's walking through when Nikki appears from nowhere,

grabs his arm.

He walks off. CAMERA TRACKS him going deep inside the

club. He wants a drink. He's almost at the bar when he

sees Chenille on the dance floor with Kenny. She shrugs

a smile, then cocks her head over at the bar. Toward

Sara. The look is like, help me out. Don't let me leave

her hangin'. Patrick rolls his eyes as he glances at

Sara, before he really sees her. She looks fly. Hugely

fly. He ambles up as she shouts into the bartender's

ear.

The closeness of his voice startles her. She turns into

his smile. That cocksure, leave'em-weak-in-the-knees

smile.

Sara's knees straighten, her spine stiffens.         The

asshole's back.

Sara leans against the bar.    The knees are going again.

He coaxes her onto the dance floor. PARLIAMENT'S funk

classic "Flashlight" is playing. The dance crowd is

robustly singing the refrain to the song. There's a

party on the floor. FAVOR Sara and Patrick, facing each

other. He's moving already. She starts to dance,

stiffly, tentatively. Patrick smiles at her. Shakes his

head. He grabs her hands, swings them in time to the

music.

The music's beginning to feel good to Sara. Patrick lets

go of her hands. Starts to dance. Sara watches him

intensely, her body follows his stiffly. Patrick's a

good teacher. He leads without leaving her. Whenever

she misses a complicated move, he smoothly segues into

another less-complicated one.

Sara begins to pick-up on Patrick's rhythm. Her eyes

never wander from his. And then she starts to feel

something else. They both do. A rising beat. A

quickening heart. And not from the dancing. She smiles

bashfully at him. Patrick suddenly grabs her around the

waist, pulls her to him in a sexy spoon dance. All Sara

can do is try to keep up and hang on.

FROM ANOTHER ANGLE

Nikki avidly watching Sara and Patrick with Jasmin and

Tiff'ny.

The girls regard her in conspicuous, dubious silence.

Nikki maintains her cool but inside her pride is

pricking.

Malakai and the clinging girl nuzzle in a back corner.

She licks his ear, whispers into it. Malakai laughs.

Then his expression abruptly darkens. A storm cloud

comes over it. He gets up.

MALAKAI'S POV - WALKING TOWARD

... two dealers a few feet away. They're talking to an

Asian guy with a multi-colored Mohawk. One slips Mohawk

a packet of coke, the other takes his money. WIDER as

Malakai reaches the dealers. He doesn't explain, doesn't

complain. He just starts swinging.

SARA AND PATRICK

The MUSIC changes and their dance ends. They stand there

for a moment, a little caught up in each other. A little

unsure of the moment. And then there's a scream!

Several of them actually. Patrick reacts to it

instinctively. Looking around. In a small pocket of the

club he sees Malakai.

PATRICK'S POV - MALAKAI

in full fisticuffs with the two dealers.     Holding his

own.

ON PATRICK

leaving Sara, slicing through a clot of looky-loos until

he reaches Malakai. He jumps into the fray.

INT. FEETZ - FIGHT - PATRICK AND MALAKAI

A thick crowd around them, proceed to beat the living

shit out of the two dealers.

ANGLE ON SARA AND CHENILLE

wrangling their way to the front line of the crowd, Diggy

not far behind them. Sara looks on, dumbfounded and

dazzled by what she sees, which is --

PATRICK

pummeling his dealer into cowering submission. Only then

does he look over at Malakai who, eyes engorged with

rage, is standing over his opponent, kicking and stomping

him with no signs of letting up. Patrick can see

Malakai's too far gone for talk. He rushes him from

behind, nearly lifts Malakai off his feet to swing him

away from the dealer's writhing body on the floor.

The exit door bursts open and Patrick and Malakai tumble

out. Patrick bends over, cups his knees as he catches

his breath.

An uncertain but tense moment.     Patrick tries to salvage

it.

They look at each other.     Share a small laugh.

Patrick finds the door locked. He and Malakai hoist

themselves over a high, wrought iron fence. Disappear

behind it.

Distant WAIL of SIRENS as Feetz begins to empty out.

Kids converge on the sidewalks. PICK UP Sara, Chenille

and Diggy. Waiting and watching for Patrick. Diggy

looks at them.

She leaves. Chenille spots Patrick. Not too worse for

the wear. She smiles with relief. Then Sara sees him.

She smiles too.

Sara, Patrick and Chenille. Walking home. Chenille's

preaching to Patrick. He's not in the mood.

They round a corner bordering the Heights. Stop in front

of it. Chenille, disconcerted with Patrick, looks dourly

at Sara.

As much as this makes sense, it still takes Patrick by

surprise. Sara sees it in his face, regards Chenille

with a false bravado.

walking.   Sara keeps stealing glances of him.   Or so she

thinks.

It's not funny, the look on her face.      But Patrick

laughs.

Dropping the smile, Patrick shakes his head.      Looks at

her.

Patrick regards her with a sly, knowing smile. His stare

is significant, unsettling. Sara's face flushes. She

turns from him, hoping he didn't see it.

Sara snaps out of it. Looks around. Shit. First the

flush and now this. She looks at him. She could kick

herself.

A look. They double back to her front door.        Pause on

the stoop.

He makes it impossible not to smile.     So damned charming.

She enters the rowhouse. Patrick waits until the lights

go on inside before he turns around and starts home.

Roy's making breakfast when Sara straggles in. She peers

at the stove. Scrambled eggs and bacon. Toast too! A

first for him.

He slides a plate in front of her.      Stands there holding

his.

The succinct sneer in her voice gets to Roy.       He snaps at

her.

Sara takes a small, tasteless sample, nods. They eat in

silence. Then Sara looks over at him with genuine if

detached remorse.

Roy exhales.     Finally, a chink in the brick wall.

A track from TOP DOGG BLARES from invisible SPEAKERS.

All of the store's many customers are teenage kids.

Snookie, in sunglasses and a reversed baseball cap,

clerks behind the counter. He's ringing up (and trying

to rap to) a fly girl when Patrick walks in, overhears

the overture.

The fly girl rolls her eyes. Takes her bag. Leaves.

Patrick looks at Snookie, wryly shakes his head.

He reaches behind the counter, hands Patrick a Jay-Z C.D.

As he says this, his eyes wander around the store.      And

he sees her in the stacks. Sara.

Sara with a bunch of C.D.'s. She juggles them in one

hand, flips through Hip-Hop C.D.'s with another. She

looks up to see Patrick standing beside her. He takes in

the C.D.'s. Grins at her.

There's no wiggle room but Sara wiggles anyway.

Patrick laughs. Looks at her.        Sara looks back at him.

They're staring at each other.

Patrick nods affirmatively. Starts to leave.       Turns

back, indicates her stack of C.D.'s.

Sara's on the phone, unwrapping one of those T.V.

dinners.

A fight. Two black girls having at it. It's a ferocious

match. Hair pulling, spit flying, punches landed,

clothes torn apart.

ANGLE ON SARA

as she crowns the corner, comes to a bottleneck of

students. It's like the nose bleed section of Caesar's

Palace. The far hallway is the ring. Sara cranes her

neck to see the action.

ANGLE WIDENS as a security guard earns his hazard pay.

He separates the two girls who are still swinging at each

other. He throws one into a corner, hurls the other in

an opposite corner.

ON SARA

as a WHITE GIRL standing next to her shakes her head

lamentably.

The White Girl studies Sara's suburban clothes and fresh-

scrubbed face. Thinks she found a kindred spirit.

Sara looks at Toni. Getting it. Getting her. The

expression on her face closes off. Toni, too dense to

read it, keeps talking.

Her inference clear, Toni flashes a brilliant smile,

happily walks off. Sara shakes her head to herself.

What an idiot.

As Sara continues down the hall, a P.A. address comes on.

Sara enters her classroom, a bunch of kids in front of

and behind her.

Sara walks up the street (passing many black people),

sees Roys' pickup. Shit. He's home.

Sara as she enters their rowhouse, walks up a flight of

stairs to their apartment. There's a JAZZ INSTRUMENTAL

FAINTLY coming from it. And another NOISE. Foreign and

yet familiar. Like grunting... but not. Sara unlocks

the door. Opens it.

Her father's fucking somebody! On the couch. Half on it

anyway. In broad daylight! The whore underneath him is

moaning. Jesus!

ANGLE WIDENS as Sara turns away from the spectacle.

Reaches for Roy's sax. She blows the longest, shrillest

note known to mankind.

The hair on his head stands up.    His body deflates

instantly.

Sara sits at the table. Roy enters in a wrinkled T-shirt

and battered jeans. His embarrassment is naked.

The "whore" with the Hich C is RHONDA. She stands

between the living area and the kitchen entrance now.

Sara tries not to look at her. Can't help it. She has

to see the whore. Not bad looking, in a washed out,

bottle blonde barfly kind of way.

Sara glares at him.     The disingenuous Rhonda jumps in.

Sara looks at her.     Bats her eyes.   Hard.

Verbal quicksand.      Roy can feel himself sinking.

OPEN CLOSE ON a framed photo of Glynn and Sara (in full

ballet costume). Embracing. Happy. PULL BACK to see

Sara. Sitting on the edge of her futon, holding Glynn's

clover leaf necklace and staring at her mother's face.

Lost. Lonely. Missing her. She kisses the lucky charm,

smiles at Glynn, slips the necklace on.

Patrick, in coveralls, slouches over a mechanic's station

studying. A few workers mill about, waiting for the next

car on a slow day. A BMW with tinted windows peels into

the lot on two wheels. Patrick looks up as Malakai and a

tall, wiry, nattily dressed man get out.

He exits into the lot.    Approaches Malakai and the man

("TUTE").

Tute takes in Patrick.    Looks around.   Snickers

derisively.

Malakai lets out a nervous laugh.     Tute doesn't crack a

smile.

Tute enters the cashier's office.    Patrick looks at

Malakai.

Tute emerges from cashier's office lighting a cigarette

from a fresh pack. He blows a plume of smoke into the

air, regards Patrick.

LATE THAT NIGHT

Patrick, still in work coveralls, enters. First thing he

does is pick up a stack of mail. Tracking him into

kitchen as he crosses to refrigerator, takes out a plate

Momma Dean's left for him. He sits down at the table,

takes a breath, begins shifting through the mail. His

face registers disappointment. Nothing. Again.

Patrick sits across from Mrs. Gwynn, the reality check of

Patterson High.

The unflappable Patrick.    He doesn't fool Mrs. Gwynn.

