INT. LAUNDROMAT, MOCKINGBURG, NEW YORK - NIGHT

Glaring fluorescence, trash overflowing with cheap detergent boxes,

empty Coke machine flashing all lights orange. Only two dryers are

humming. It's very late. Keep PANNING to...

...a wiry, gimlet-eyed WOMAN, furtively removing crumpled

newspapers from a dryer. She flattens and folds them meticulously,

her glance darting angrily everywhere. Top secret mission.

...a natty little black man. PARTRIDGE has spread a late supper on

a neat cloth atop a dryer. Small cold fowl. Brie, baguette,

olives. Bottle of red. An air of competence, of indomitable

upbeatness. He ignores the spy-dressed-as-bag-lady as if she were

normal. More curious about...

...a hulking, rumpled figure scrutinizing Help Wanted ads as if

cramming for life's midterm exam. Thoughtful. Circles one,

slowly. Set out on QUOYLE's dryer are one Snickers bar and four

empty snickers wrappers. His version of cold supper. He reaches

for the candy, but seeing it's the last one, he...

...rises. Goes to the candy machine. Drops in his 65 cents, hits

the button. The Snickers starts to fall, but gets caught in the

mechanism at the last moment. Quoyle blinks dully. One more

retelling of the story of his life. He BANGS the machine half-

heartedly. Nope. Shakes it with his shambling strength. Nada.

POUNDS the coin return button. Hat trick. He empties his pocket.

Studies the results. Not enough. And without so much as a sigh...

...he ambles back to his dryer. Starts to unwrap the last

Snickers. Partridge taking this all in. But Mata Hari of the

Neat Newspapers goes to the candy machine, KICKS it violently. Out

fall the Snickers and the 65 cents. She scoops up both, turns in a

single motion to...

...GLARE death at the enemy. Quoyle opens his mouth to comment.

But. Doesn't. Resumes unwrapping his supper, as...

...his dryer STOPS. He pops it open. Stares in. Blinks.

Suddenly YANKS a tangle of graying shirts out onto the grimy floor

to reveal they have been...

...STAINED streaky BLUE by a cheap pen, quietly melting amid the

pile. This slips beneath even Quoyle's expectation level. The

big, soft face is pitifully, yes, even adorably, devastated.

And to the bystander.     This seems a comment on more than shirts.

Quoyle's head WHIPS around.     As if he thought he was alone.

Watches the little guy's undemanding smile.

As Quoyle gazes at his benefactor, the woman sneaks up, SNATCHES

his Help Wanted ads. Races them over to her dryer. As the boys

watch, she shoves them in, starts the machine with Quoyle's coins,

and glares fiercely back at us. A mother bear protecting her cubs.

Partridge chuckles. Holds out his hand...

Quoyle glances at the little man's cold fowl supper.

Oh.

INT. MOCKINGBURG RECORD CITY ROOM - DAY

Shabby one-floor newspaper. Old equipment, listless personnel,

stale you can smell from here. Only guy working is Partridge, who

is laying out the front page, and glances up to see across the

floor...

...Quoyle enter in his best suit. It is also his worst suit.

Partridge points to the only enclosed office, and gives his buddy a

hearty thumbs-up. Quoyle nods, his smile a rictus, his eyes a

glaze of panic. We see now that he is chewing, somehow. On the

way into the office, he snags a doughnut from a paper plate by the

coffee. Enters...

INT. ED PUNCH'S OFFICE - DAY

...ED PUNCH, managing editor, looks up from a reverie with a

startled expression. He wears really thick glasses which MAGNIFY

his eyes, giving him a frightening aspect.

From the rear, we see Quoyle can barely squeeze himself into the

chair.

All the change SPILLS out of Quoyle's pockets, and CLATTERS onto

the wood floor, ROLLING interminably, as Quoyle fidgets.

REVERSE ANGLE now to see Quoyle's face.        The neat moustache of

powdered sugar.

And takes a healthy bite from what's left of the doughnut.

Quoyle nods, dumbly.     Knows this.

Quoyle nods bigger. Like he gets it.         Punch shoves an antique tape

recorder across the table.

HOLD on Quoyle's eyes.      Recalling...

FLASHBACK:   EXT. PUBLIC POOL - DAY

...Quoyle as a fat kid in a baggy bathing suit, being savagely

pummeled by his vicious OLDER BROTHER...

Being pulled off the sniveling Quoyle by a rough hairy man with

dead eyes.

Quoyle's FATHER hauls him off the deck, and in a single motion,

FLINGS him INTO the pool!

Watches the THRASHING with mild contempt.     Turns away before Quoyle

simply SINKS beneath the surface.

INT. CITY ROOM - LATE NIGHT

The empty room a haven of dust motes floating in sickly fluor-

escence. Quoyle sits across the desk, gazing with endearing

fearfulness as Partridge turns page after page...

Partridge does glance up on that.

Nobody smiles. Nobody has to. Quoyle pulls a big glass jar from a

paper sack. Sets it on the desk.

Partridge looks at the cornichons.     They look expensive.

DISSOLVE to...

EXT. PARTRIDGE'S BACK YARD - DAY

Sausages on the BBQ, interesting colors and sizes. A huge hand

delicately places cut-up pieces of quail on the grill. It is

Quoyle, trusted, paying attention. MERCALIA, a slim black woman

with fiery eyes and an enticing smile, hands him a glass of white

wine, and...

...goes to slip her arm around Partridge. He watches Quoyle's

concentration approvingly. Shares a smile with his sexy wife.       And

raps a knife on his glass. Announcement.

Quoyle looks up with innocent eyes.         Which makes Partridge

hesitate.

Mercalia takes out the package. Wrapped in tissue, a neat ribbon.

She hands it to Quoyle, and leans up to kiss his cheek. Quoyle

looks down at it, dumbfounded. A silence.

Quoyle smiles.     Sweet and slightly confused.

He starts to unwrap...

...a wristwatch.     A nice one.     He is overwhelmed, but still

uncomprehending.

And steals a glance at her husband.

That stops Partridge's face.        No more stalling...

Quoyle so pole-axed he can't even lose the smile.    It just turns

stupid and transparent. His friend swallows.

Quoyle nodding slowly, smile still there. Yep. I guess y'can.

Partridge sees that it's a death blow. Mercalia looks at her feet.

As if parting advice. As if Quoyle should file that away.      So

Quoyle nods some more. As if he will.

On this, Quoyle's smile deserts him. So Partridge reaches out his

hand. Quoyle paralyzed, then takes it. CLOSE ON their handclasp,

and DISSOLVE to...

INT. DOUBLETREE MEETING ROOM - EVENING

...a slender feminine hand.   Buried in Quoyle's.

PAN up to see her. Tiny, twitchy, moist ringlets. A gray-eyed

predator. She looks around at the milling suits and their name

tags. As if they were alternatives.

Quoyle transfixed by her slight form in its loose but clingy

wrapping. The smile that sees him again and flickers...

Don't you? No answer. She laughs, as if at some off-color

response. Runs hot fingers up his arm, leaning to his face...

Quoyle.   Blinks.     She laughs again.   Bright, like whiskey music.

INT. QUOYLE'S TRAILER - LATE NIGHT

Petal naked in near-darkness, moves with authority toward the

massive lumpy creature nearly overflowing his bed. Draws the

covers back.

Stares.

Climbs on, the lithe move of a leopardess.         Feeding time.

Petal RIDING in silhouette, with great, violent swoops.            CLOSE on

his face, his eyes. Lovelight.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Horrible place. Smoke and bodies. Quoyle alone, carrying his

sloshing beer, apologies unheard, toward...

...the back of Petal, talking to a big guy in a shiny suit.

Closer.   Close enough to hear...

HOLD on Quoyle's face. The lovelight has never left.          It shines

through the shock. As if in apology...

DISSOLVE to...

INT. PARLOR - DAY

One-year-old BUNNY is SCREAMING in a rickety crib festooned with

mobiles and bright toys. HEAR Quoyle POUNDING in. He reaches to

lift her...

...WAY UP, starts running around the faded little parlor making

cheerful airplane noises, as he DIVES and SWOOPS the shrieking kid,

until he...

...stops. Sniffs. Oh. Gives her a kiss, which doesn't put a dent

in the screaming, and flops her down on the diaper table. She is

screaming LOUDER. He is fumbling with the diaper, the Baby Wipes,

getting a wad of ten or so at once. When...

...the phone rings. He runs off. Runs back, lifts Bunny, diaper

dangling from the tape stuck to her skin, and SNATCHES up the

phone, hoping with everything in him that it's...

He takes a breath.     Can hear the noise of a rowdy spot.     Country

juke box.

Bunny.   Has stopped screaming.

What should he do? He sets Bunny carefully on the floor. She

starts screaming again, and he LIFTS her quick, cuddles her. LOPES

off, leaving the phone on the floor...

...RACES back in with the Mr. Boston, a bag of pork rinds, and

a pacifier. Something for everyone. As he flips the pages, he

murmurs into the phone...

She laughs, almost friendly.      He smiles.   Ever hopeful.

CLICK. The BUZZ of her disconnect. He glances down at Bunny,

working the pacifier. Murmurs to the receiver...

Hang up the phone. Kiss a baby. Eat a pork rind. Slow. As he

gazes down on Bunny, we PUSH INTO her face, and MATCH DISSOLVE

to...

INT. BUNNY'S ROOM - NIGHT, FIVE YEARS LATER

...an ECU of Bunny, now six years old, asleep in the flickering

blue light of a nearly-mute TV. Apparently she was watching

Sportscenter. PAN the darkened shoebox room. Toys everywhere, in

a clutter. A pile of used Barbies, limbs jutting in all

directions, waiting for a mass grave. BACK to Bunny, to see...

...she sleeps in her father's lap. His chin resting on her head,

an industrial-size bag of cookies handy. Somewhere, a door OPENS..

...SLAMS HARD. Quoyle gently lays Bunny on her bed, and lurches

INTO the hall, to see Petal disappearing into her bedroom, and he

hurries to stop the door before it slams in his face.

When she turns, she is wasted, feral, and somehow as sexy as ever.

Her laser glare. What the fuck do you want?

Really? She tears off her jacket, revealing that she has left her

shirt somewhere and is down to her bra. She stalks toward him.

Straight to the doorway. He flinches.

Quoyle swallows.     Shakes his head.

No.   No.   Tears of shock pool in his eyes.

She shivers with disgust. Walks around in a frustrated circle.

Back to his face. Are you sure? What does a girl have to do? And

now...

...the tears are on his face.     She flashes her hardest look.      And

yet...

...her slender fingers reach out.     Wipe his face, not as roughly as

she might have intended.

And CLOSES the door, quietly, but firmly.      In his face.

He stares at it. His lips part. But no sound comes.           Instead, he

walks the few steps to Bunny's room, to find her...

...wide awake.   Sitting on the edge of her bed.     No question, she

heard it all.

So Quoyle smiles. He reaches to the top of her battered armoire.

His eyes damp but dancing for his daughter. Pulls down...

...a box of chocolates. Their stash.       He sits on the floor.     Opens

the lid, like buried treasure.

She comes to cuddle in his lap.     He feeds her one.   She feeds him

one. They've done this before.      As they chew...

INT. CITY ROOM - MIDDAY

Everyone trooping back from lunch, twos and threes. Quoyle last,

alone, still stuffing down a snack cake as he heads for the coffee

pot. There's one answering machine for everybody here, glowing a

red number 2. Someone hits it, and everybody shuts up a beat, to

see if they got lucky.

LILA doesn't even bother to blush.      A shrug is plenty.

Quoyle listening.      Go?

Oh.     Go.   Eyes are sneaking over now.   Lots of them.

Everybody just openly staring now.       Quoyle's snack cake and coffee

frozen in mid-air.

BEEP!

Quoyle nods. Sounded that way. Despite the hateful coarseness of

this message, Quoyle is deeply moved. Lips pursed inward to stem

tears. In the silence...

Quoyle stares into distance.       Somewhere, feet shuffle.

He nods, it is that. Wanders       on over to his desk. They're still

watching, but he doesn't seem      to notice. Turns his ratty Rolodex

with solemn slowness. Not to       dishonor the moment. Finds the

number, dials. Winces at the       harshness of the voice he hears.

Then...

He can't say any more.     Turns out, he doesn't need to.

Quoyle licks his lips.     His eyes puddling now.

Quoyle shakes his head once.     That confused he isn't.

Silence.

LONG ANGLE...they are watching him replace the receiver in its

cradle. Think. Stumble slightly, as he makes his way toward...

INT. PUNCH'S OFFICE - DAY

Punch looks up, startled at Quoyle's entrance. His oversized

glasses seem to magnify his eyes more than ever.

A full beat.

Quoyle's eyes sharpen.

Oh.   Once again, life slips beneath even Quoyle's expectations.

Don't?

A beat.

INT. QUOYLE'S HOUSE - DAY

Quoyle enters carrying a spray of violets.     HEAR Springer turned up

loud. He goes to the parlor to find...

...MRS. MOOSUP, the babysitter, smoking and swigging a Pepsi. She

is mean-ugly with flesh hanging beneath her arms. She stares at

him, the flowers.

Uh-oh.

He knows the one.

He is heading toward the hall.

That stops him.    Cold.     He turns...

He TEARS out, DOWN the hall, INTO Bunny's room...

...closet open. Empty. No more tangled pile of Barbies.                He

surveys the wreckage of his life.

He staggers out of the room, down the hall...

...into the kitchen.       Lifts the receiver.    Thinks.     Dials.

And straightens his spine.       Just a little.

He's still holding the violets.         He notices this.     Sets them down,

almost tenderly, in the sink.

INT. QUOYLE'S HOUSE - LATE NIGHT

Quoyle alone in absolute darkness. Bumping around the house.

There's a large bag of something in one hand, maybe M & Ms. But

he's not eating. Just murmuring to himself...

INT. QUOYLE'S PARENTS' HOME, BROOKLYN - DAY

Quoyle moving in his parents' cluttered parlor like a man

underwater. A room as drab, as neglected, as Brooklyn through

the window. He stands at a shelf now, staring at a row of framed

photos. Lifts one...

...a BOY of 15, bundled for winter, stands by a frozen pond.

Stocky, sullen, something unpleasant in the narrow eyes. Next

to him, not touching, a GIRL, big for 12. Rawboned, husky. Flat

gaze, like something's dead or hidden.

Quoyle walks to the table. A cardboard box has been filled with

mementos. A slip of paper: AGNIS HAMM, a telephone number. The

phone is RINGING now. Quoyle staring at the paper. Finally, lifts

the phone, breathes an absent greeting, and...

Quoyle blinks.   Not in the mood.

Silence.

And says no more.     We can feel Quoyle's heart beating from here.

Ominous.   Would be an understatement.

Quoyle's heart.     Has stopped.

INTERCUT...a dingy kitchen, scuzzier than we could even have

guessed. Bunny in her underpants sliding merrily on a floor made

slippery with dish detergent. PAN past the video camera on its

tripod to the PORNOGRAPHER at the window, also in his underpants,

screaming into a cordless phone. And...

BACK to Quoyle.     His heart must have started again, because he is

able to say...

INTERCUT...a riverbank somewhere high above swiftly-flowing water.

Police and bystanders gathered. A winch reaching its chain into

the depths.

Here comes part of the Geo.        Streaming water and mud.

BACK to the horrified husband.     Waiting in silence.

Oh. Tears finally force their way through the shock.      As he

realizes...

INT. COUNTY SOCIAL SERVICES - DAY

Quoyle moving his bulk FAST down a corridor, a uniformed COP almost

skipping alongside to keep up, watching Quoyle like a hawk all the

way to....

...the threadbare common room. Kids playing, arguing, sleeping,

staring at an antique TV. Quoyle goes THROUGH them all, cop

doggedly in his wake, and sinks to his knees beside...

Bunny on the ratty sofa, legs dangling, holding out a vintage

Gameboy. She wears clean clothes, freshly-washed hair, and a

comfortable smile.

And kisses her, lightly, on the lips.

She kisses him back, much harder, on the mouth.     The lopsided grin

of a practicing imp.

We hadn't seen them, hidden beside his leg.          A bunch of DAISIES.

He gives them to her. Like her best beau.

And then...

Bunny doesn't understand.

PULL BACK to the cop, staring down on them from point-blank range.

He doesn't move. Quoyle looks up, with an easy smile that says

he'd just as soon tear all the arms and legs off, and sweat the

consequences later. The cop backs well off. He can take a hint.

He looks in her eyes.      Shakes his head.    No.

He nods, I do.   Tenderly pulls a strand of her hair aside.

That's right. His big hand has wrapped around one of hers.           She

doesn't seem to mind. Their faces so close.

She drills his eyes.   Calm as a moose.

He shakes his head.

And leans her forehead.      To rest against his.

INT. QUOYLE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Quoyle stumbling toward the front door, drawing his robe around

him. Squinting through the peephole. OPENING the door, to

reveal...

Tall and rawboned and 60. A rugged, maybe even handsome face, set

with ice-blue eyes. Calm, slightly scary eyes, that drift to his

robe...

He is completely off-balance here.

Not that she seems to approve. Not at all. His eyes now drift to

the large, well-used SUITCASES dangling from her powerful hands.

And stops.   The mouth doesn't smile.     But the eyes crinkle slightly

toward...

...Bunny. Who has crept out in her jammies.         Hugging a sack of

Pepperidge Farm cookies like it was a teddy.

The little girl nods.     As if she certainly does.

INT. PARLOR - LATER

In the far corner of the room, Bunny plays with WARREN, a sweet,

ugly dog. Toothless and, undeniably, blue.

See him now, sipping his tea.     Wallowing in the detritus of his

emotions.

Agnis in the good chair. Teacup on her ample lap. Assessing a

photo on the end table, Petal's arctic eyes, rigidly seductive

pose. The snapshot enshrined by a neighboring votive rose in its

jelly jar glass.

Quoyle's eyes cut instinctively toward his daughter, her innocence

protected by distance and absorption with Warren's passivity.

Agnis' unblinking eyes.

The eyes study him.     Dissect him, even.

Clucks her tongue.

Not a smile. But something.        A softening of timbre, a flicker

behind the eye.

Lifts her cup.

Takes a sip.     His eyes have narrowed in a burlesque of suspicion.

Just like that.

Hmmn?

Tilts her head.     Who knows.

He just stares.     The blankest of the blank.

His face softens.       Hadn't thought of it that way.      And seeing

this...

She waits.   He rises.      And when he does...

He blinks.   She looks at two URNS on the mantle.

The name of the funeral home tastefully stenciled.           He clears his

throat...

Quoyle nods, glad to serve.       Heads off to the kitchen.      Agnis looks

at Bunny and Warren.

She runs out, the dog trotting after.        Alone now...

...Agnis pulls something from her large carpetbag purse.           It is an

oversized ZIPLOC BAG. She stands. Crosses to...

...her brother's urn. She removes the lid. Turns the huge Ziploc

upside down to COVER the urn. Then, in one deft movement...

...UPENDS the urn, a cascade of ash tumbling into the Ziploc.

Seals it. Sets it to one side. Then, from her purse...

...another ziploc already filled with replacement ashes. She pours

just enough into the urn. That should do it. Stashes the rest

back in her purse. Turns now to lift...

...the Ziploc with her brother's remains.     Stares at it.   Think

Hamlet with Yorrick's skull.

A beat.     Eyes flat and neutral.

EXT. PHANTOM HIGHWAY - MISTY NIGHT

A world of fog and reflected high beams. Big rig pulls over, and

Petal climbs up and in, her short red dress fluttering about her

thighs.

The truck is roaring heedlessly through dense cloud. The DRIVER is

gross and bald, snot suspended from his nostrils. He lets go of

the wheel to run his hairy hands UNDER Petal's dress, while through

the shotgun window, we see...

...Quoyle FLYING along outside, like a superhero. Except he is

shocked bug-eyed by the tableau. The disgusting driver buries his

face in Petal's hair, she throws her head back laughing, and the

driver becomes Quoyle's FATHER, Quoyle silently SHRIEKING outside

the window, and SMASH cut to...

EXT. DECK, PORT-AUX-BASQUES FERRY - DAY

...Quoyle    blinking awake on the deck of a pitching ferry. Fog

and cliff    and the raw Atlantic. And SOARING alongside, an amazing

number of    MARITIME BIRDS...the gulls and terns seeming to stare

Quoyle in    the eye as they glide past. Maybe they prompted his

dream.

She stands at the rail.     Smoking, despite the wind.

He smiles a seasick smile. Lurches from his bolted-down chair to

join her. She nods back toward...

...Bunny through the glass window, snuggled with Warren, feeding

the dog french fries.

She stares in his eyes. Yes, like the falcon.       They are growing on

each other in a companionable way.

He smiles.   It is nice.

His smile changes color.      A quiet pride in the modest...

When Quoyle looks back in at Bunny, he sees she is staring off at

something with full attention. He follows her gaze to...

...a honey-haired MOTHER with her small BOY snuggled in her lap.

She is feeding him an ice cream bar with evident tenderness. And

though the child's face is blissfully vacant, she murmurs to him

with serious intent.

INT. CAR, GREAT NORTHERN PENINSULA - DAY

Quoyle driving a winding, rutted road, high above the coastline.

Cracked cliffs in volcanic glazes. Long-abandoned settlements

jutting from raw granite. Icebergs on the horizon above the

rumpled, creased fabric of a brilliant blue sea. Beside him...

It all seems at once awe-inspiring, frighteningly lonely.      And

hostile as hell.

EXT. QUOYLE'S POINT - SUNSET

The car pulls up in a shroud of mist. Our family climbs out,

stares into what seems the center of a dense cloud, until...

...the fog LIFTS. And like a ghost, a GREEN HOUSE appears.       Then,

disappears. Then, APPEARS again. This time, to stay.

The cloud lifts further, and we see the house stands alone on a

rocky point. The bay roils far below. Half the window panes are

gone. Holes in the roof, paint flaking everywhere. Lonely and

scary as any haunted house.

Quoyle looks at her.     Looks at the house.   Looks at her.

She takes Bunny's squirming hand and starts toward the house, as if

crossing Jordan.

He just stands there.     Sees the cables now, the rings.

Apparently a private one, too.     Keeps walking.

INT. GREEN HOUSE - TWILIGHT

Inside the dank, corroding place. We can feel all 44 years of

abandonment. CRASH! The door FLIES open. Quoyle with his tire

iron steps aside, and...

...Agnis drags Bunny inside. The wind shrieking low through

openings like proper spirits. Even this bold child is frightened.

So Agnis leans to murmur...

Asked as a serious question.     Bunny nods.   Let's.

ANGLE...upstairs now. Agnis marching through like MacArthur

reclaiming the Philippines. Room after rough-hewn spacious room,

light spiking through a thousand roof holes in assorted shapes.

Quoyle looks down to his daughter.     Who nods, as if that were a

perfectly natural suggestion.

INT. GREEN HOUSE - LATE NIGHT

CLOSE on Bunny's sleeping face.     PUSH INTO her closed eyes, and

FADE to...

...a WINDOW, unearthly tendrils of FOG drifting past in moonglow

wisps. Suddenly, a FACE appears, an animal. White. Wolf, or more

likely, dog. It stares in at us, is fleetingly joined by a

grizzled HUMAN ghost, eyes FLASHING crazy, and...

...gone in mist.     CUT to...

REAR ANGLE of Quoyle and Bunny, each rolled over onto one side,

asleep in their sleeping bags. His arm across her protectively.

Hers across Warren, who sleeps curled to her chest. PAN up to...

...the window.     Only the shimmer of cloud-like mist.     SNAP to...

REVERSE ANGLE...Bunny's eyes.     wide open.

INT. ROOM - DAWN

CLOSE on Quoyle, stirring at the end of sleep.        His eyes flutter

open. A beat. He is alone. sits...

...BOLT UPRIGHT.

ANGLE...front hallway, Quoyle's bulk POUNDING toward us, boots in

his hand. The front door ajar. And at the threshold, in a

decorous semi-circle, six naked Barbies. Legs spread wide for

balance. Each staring out the doorway, to where...

...Bunny sits on the cold ground. Making some craft project with

great care. Quoyle can breathe again, she's safe. Ambles out,

crouches beside her. Close.

She keeps working. Almost eerie concentration. He sees now that

she is weaving a loop of dandelion stems, connected by aluminum pop

tops. He leans down. Kisses her head.

No answer. That concerns him. The intensity of her focus. He

notices now, the soda and beer cans with their tops popped. Lined

up in a row. He lifts one, liquid sloshes out. They're full.

She won't look up.     He glances back to the doorway.

He looks back. Well. Maybe so. Holds up one of the heavy boots

he's carrying. It has a thick blue shoelace. The other. Has

none. Sticks that one in front of her face.

She looks up to him.     Tugs on the shoelace, which she now wears as

a necklace...

...sees now what she has tugged from inside her shirt.     The

shoelace necklace holds a dull metal KEY as a pendant.     He blinks.

He takes that in.    The urgency of it.   She is staring in his eyes.

So he grins...

She doesn't smile back. Returns to her work. He looks out by the

cliff, to see Agnis staring across the bay, Warren sitting at her

side. He pulls on his boots. Gets to his feet.

He looks across the ground toward old Warren.

Now their eyes meet.    Matter-of-fact...

He draws a breath...

He thinks this over.

And makes a funny gesture, like peeling his eyeballs. She goes

back to work. His eyes linger. Then, he heads off toward the

cliff. When he gets there...

Now she looks at him.     Her flat, bottomless eyes.

O-kay. That's settled. He nods, humbly, dumbly.         She points off

across the water. An actual TOWN.

Ten o'clock.

He tries a smile.    Unavoidably lame.

His grin hardens. Just enough to say that on this issue, maybe

even she can't push him. He turns around. Starts back toward his

daughter.

INT. CAR - MORNING

Quoyle driving alone in his best suit. Which is also his worst

suit. Which is also the suit he wore to interview Ed Punch, years

ago. Hard rain. Potholes. Around a curve, to see ahead...

REAR ANGLE of a tall WOMAN, holding the hand of a CHILD as they

walk in their slickers through the downpour. As he passes them,

they TURN and..

...the woman is Petal.     The child is Bunny.    They both stick their

tongues out at him.

Past now. Looking in the rear-view. The woman is lovely and

no longer Petal. The child is a BOY, with a slack face and warm

smile. Surprisingly, the same mother and son that Bunny watched on

the ferry.

Still staring in the mirror.     The receding figures small against

the rain.

EXT. THE GAMMY BIRD - DAY

Quoyle pulls up to a ramshackle place, its sign: THE GAMMY BIRD

over a painted quacking duck. As he climbs out, he hears SHOUTING

from inside. A door opens, and...

...a crab-Iike figure scuttles out, jumps in a Toyota truck, turns

the key. Kills the engine. He looks out at Quoyle standing in

what's left of the rain. Climbs back out. Rasps...

More of a leering rictus than an actual smile. TERT CARD is aging,

balding, potbellied over a once-rawboned frame. His face looks

like cottage cheese clawed with a fork. He scratches his balls

with a rough-hewn hand. He is never happy.

Card rakes his privates once more, and offers the same hand in

dubious greeting. Quoyle takes it.

Claps a mirthless hand on Quoyle's back, leading him into...

INT. GAMMY BIRD NEWSROOM - DAY

A newsroom. Makes the Mockingburg Record look like the Washington

Post. Only two employees at their vintage desks. Card points as

he bellows...

BILLY PRETTY is wizened and wiry, pushing 70. A tiny, energetic

creature with well-weathered hide, watering crystal-blue eyes, and

a slanted smile. He waves a bony hand.

Billy nods.    That pretty much covers it.

Little salute from the Managing Editor.      If Card likes anybody, he

likes Billy. And he doesn't.

NUTBEEM is 50 and gangly. Buttery hair swept behind ample ears.

A thin moustache, a bounteous bowtie, a ratty pullover. He opens a

file folder. Gives Quoyle a piercing, meaningful glance.

Got it?   Turns the page.

A stunned.    Silence.

The beginning.   Of a beautiful friendship.

Card, who likes no one.   Doesn't like Quoyle, too.

And he turns away. Through the swinging door.       SLAM.   Quiet.

Except for Nutbeem's chuckle.

EXT. GREEN HOUSE - DAY

Quoyle pulls up beside the ancestral home. Agnis stands at the

back of a rented truck, sorting through materials in the payload.

Across a stretch of ground, Bunny is earnestly pretend-reading a

book to Warren, who lies listlessly before her.

Quoyle comes up behind Agnis.   He carries a newspaper and an

excited air.

He looks up, eager for her reaction. She is still sorting through

bolts of thick cloth, spools of heavy thread, odd mechanical

devices.

He looks into the truck.      Sees all the stuff.   She surveys his

puzzlement.

Oh.   Absorbs that.

Quoyle nods. Could be that. The sudden sound of footsteps above

them, makes him look up sharply, to see...

...a fit young MAN in a toolbelt climbing down a ladder from the

roof. The muscles of a stud, the shy smile of a boy, he waves a

greeting and HOPS down the last six feet to the ground.

DENNIS offers a hand, and a smile that says he's expecting to like

you. Makes the sentiment contagious.

A strong handshake.   On both sides.

Quoyle hasn't.

Quoyle laughs good and honest.      Dennis likes that.

Quoyle nods, if a bit cautious.      Dennis squints out across the bay.

Sounds pretty sure of that.      Punctures the amiable ambiance with a

shard of silence.

The silence.     Just got thunderous.   A full beat.

Even the eyes glance down.      What is that?   In the wake of it...

Quoyle nods. Better do that. Dennis sends a shy smile, as if

apologizing for the awkwardness. Quoyle holds up a finger, be

right back, and...

...heads on over to where Bunny is reading to Warren.

Quoyle takes a breath to answer, but stops.     He's caught a whiff.

Oh. Quoyle holds his face together, as Bunny strokes the limp

Warren. Then, he crouches down...

...strokes Warren, too.     Good dog.

INT. GAMMY BIRD - MORNING

Quoyle enters. Billy Pretty's on the phone, hand cupped over the

receiver, like it's top secret. Nutbeem's tuning his ancient

shortwave with a butter knife through the hole where a knob ought

to be. And as Quoyle sets down his sack lunch and thermos, as he

peels off his parka, he's staring straight into the eyes of...

...Tert Card across the way. Wearing a wicked and mysterious

smile. As Quoyle's butt lowers toward his chair...

Ouoyle JUMPS a foot.   Looks from Card to Billy to Nutbeem.    What's

going on?

WHIPS around. Through the glass of the only private office, sits a

rumpled codger with a bullhorn. JACK BUGGIT, has his rubber boots

up on the desk, scale-spattered overalls over his compact, sinewy

body. His hair is wisps and shocks, and his face is strewn with

stubble split by a leprechaun's grin around a stained hand-rolled

ciggie.

Jack WAVING him in, with great energetic loops. The grin more

rowdy than his boy's. But the charm is there and more so. Quoyle

goes...

...closes the door behind him. Jack's eyes are crinkly blue.   They

study Quoyle good. And right in his face...

Holds out a brown fisherman's hand.   Quoyle takes it.

A wink.

Lifts the bullhorn...

Jack's grin grows a twinkle.   Soft spot for the Brit.

Leans forward.   Like he's dishing the lowdown.

Stabs out his cigarette.     Pulls a new one from a damp little box.

Offers the box.     Quoyle shakes him off.

Ah. Jack's smile doesn't actually fade.       But the eyes flicker, and

Quoyle is sorry he opened his yap.

His glance goes to a photo. Jack and a strapping blond son.

Not Dennis, that's for sure. Somehow, we are suddenly down to

business...

INTERCUT...half a red Geo being fished out of the water. Petal's

lifeless torso hanging backwards out the door, arms gracefully

extended like a ballerina or Olympic diver. Over this...

BACK to Jack.     Canny and keen.   He knows this stuff.

Do ya follow?     Quoyle follows.

A beat.

Ah.   Jack takes this in.     The smile returns.

If you catch my drift.      Quoyle shuts up.

SMASH CUT to...

INT. SKIPPER WILL'S DINER - NIGHT

CLOSE on Dennis, holding a half-eaten squidburger in two hands.

Oblivious to sawdust, smoke and stench, he is charmingly,

engagingly, smashed.

His audience is Quoyle and Nutbeem. Each holds a squidburger of

his own, tentacles dangling. Quoyle has his next one handy by his

beer.

Quoyle takes a humongus BITE.      Tentacles now dripping from his

jaws. Rapt. Hypnotized.

Quoyle hanging on the punch.

Quoyle SNORTS his laughter, dislodging a tentacled morsel or two.

Nutbeem has to look away, as Quoyle retrieves the chunks, stuffs

'em back in his mouth.

Drunken, devilish smile.     Quoyle turns, innocent questioning eyes.

You got a boat?

So casual and falsely modest, Quoyle's eyes are big.

Studies Quoyle's amazement.     Confides...

Dennis rises.   Belches.

And off he lurches to correct the situation.       Once he's gone...

Their eyes meet.     The Brit sighs.

Thinking. Should he tell it?      Quoyle makes a rolling hand motion,

hurry it up.

That's right.

Sets down the burger.     Runs a finger down the frost on his beer

mug.

A week.

Leans.    Close.

Quoyle glances over.      Dennis wobbling his way back through the

tables.

He raises his beer.

And, by God.   They do.

EXT. WAVEY'S YARD - AFTERNOON

Quoyle and Bunny climb out of the wagon. A small house, its grassy

yard strewn with a phantasmagoria of painted wood figures,

galloping horses, dogs balanced on wheels, a row of chrome hubcaps

on sticks. A zoo of the mind. To one side, a table piled with

crafts, ignored by...

...fifteen LITTLE KIDS running in all directions, like bundled,

unbridled banshees. Looks like fun. Two harried MOTHERS are

trying to cope with the chaos. And there, under a tree...

...the honey-haired WOMAN Quoyle had seen on the ferry. And in

the rain. She is on her knees, tying the shoes of her vacant-faced

SON. He trips and sprawls, but he is laughing. The woman smiles

tenderly and tousles his brown-straw hair.

Quoyle gets up his courage. Walks Bunny over to them.       As we

arrive, the woman looks up...

Quoyle freezes.    She means, of course, the blankly-staring boy.

Oh.   HERRY smiles at Bunny.      Suddenly, wonderfully.

She DROPS to all fours and starts YAPPING like a terrier. Herry

LAUGHS with delight. Tumbles down to the grass and does his

impression of a Chihuahua on speed.

The kids waddle off in their canine personas. Alone with the woman

now, Quoyle is near-catatonic. Come on, brain!

The woman looks at him. Clear cornflower eyes. As comfortable in

silence as he is agonized. Then, she squints out at the other

women, desperately running ragged after the kids.

Oh.

She looks back at him, blankly.

The woman's eyes bottomless, unreadable.       The silence excruciating

for poor Quoyle. He clears his throat.

But she stands.    The grace and quickness of a jungle cat.

Brushes off her skirt.       He is in the dawning panic of beginning to

realize...

Heads off with a loose-limbed stride.       Spins back around...

Got it? He gawks like a stupid animal.        Nods, got it.   She's

already gone.

EXT. BARGE DECK - DAY

Quoyle and Billy Pretty stroll the teak deck of a massive,

elegantly-outfitted BARGE. The wiry little fellow keeps his

smile to his eyes...

Oh.   Quoyle nods, blandly.      As if it is a matter of no real concern

Keep walking.

Look up ahead to the bow, where a rolling bar has been set up.

BAYONET MELVILLE is mixing drinks. He has a florid face and

striking white hair. Dapper, arrogant, a guy with more money than

he's worked for. As we approach...

Quoyle looks to the sour-faced middle-aged lady, who glances

disdainfully at us above her gimlet. SILVER MELVILLE used to be

pretty and rich. She's still rich.

Oh.   Billy keeps a straight face.     Silver ROLLS her eyes.

Silver snorts a laugh. Melville wonders if that was irony.

Looking at Quoyle, he doubts that's possible.

He looks at his wife. Clear in a glance they hate each other's

guts. Go on, she nods. Tell it.

Drunk and mean.    And smarter than he is.

Silence.

She winks.

And holds out her glass.       Billy looks out to sea.   Like he hasn't

heard this.

A beat.    While husband and wife glare at each other.

She turns to Quoyle.       Who just gapes at her.   Open-mouthed.

INT. GREEN HOUSE - DAY

Quoyle enters, impressed by the progress of the renovation.

Windows are in, walls patched, floor sanded, lights are working.

Through the place into...

...the kitchen, which is in surprisingly usable shape. Agnis sits

alone at a butcher block table with a set of ledgers spread before

her. A large mug of tea. A bottle of Bushmill's Irish.

Silence.

Looks up.    Sees he's dazzled by how she moves right along.

She winks.

He absorbs that.     How fast can he change the subject?

Agnis looks at him.     Reaches for the Bushmill's.

She pours some whiskey into her tea cup.

Drinks the whiskey.    Stares straight in his eyes.     Sees his sorrow.

The honesty in...

Agnis deciding.    Whether to tell him...

Quoyle shocked. What can he say? His empathy so naked, so real,

even Agnis has to soften her voice...

A good moment for them.    It holds a beat.

Quoyle nods.   Rises slowly.   He'd better go to her.

Another sip.

INT. BUNNY'S ROOM - DAY

Bunny sits on the floor in dim light, wearing an enormous blue

sweatshirt. Obviously dad's. Her naked Barbies sit in a semi-

circle watching her braid a meticulous loop out of the paper and

foil from chewing gum wrappers. Quoyle enters, and sits close

beside her. Watches in silence, as she works.

No tears.   Just a hollow sound in her voice.

He knows what she means.      Strokes her hair.

Okay.   He looks at the Barbies.

She looks up at him.     Straight to his eyes.

Goes back to work.     He watches her.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Quoyle driving the wagon, Dennis at his side. Up ahead on the

road, two figures. Herry holds tight to his mom's hand. Quoyle

pulls over, and they stop. Wavey squints at him, against the sun.

That extra beat before she says...

Doesn't smile.    Doesn't look angry either.      Just comfortable.

No reaction.

Now she smiles.    One-tenth power.     Still a dazzler.

Did she like that?    Hard to tell.     She looks around him...

He waves, will do. She takes Herry's hand, starts off down the

road. Quoyle sits and watches.

Quoyle looks over.    His pal shrugs.

EXT. SHORELINE - SUNSET

Rear ANGLE of Agnis, walking over stones to the edge of the sea,

carrying something in her arms. Walking to meet the sun, as it

gives its last to the shimmering water. REVERSE ANGLE to see...

...she carries her old dog. On a clean sheet. Rests the burden

gently down. The incoming tide laps over. The sheet billows in

it. She takes a step back.

Surf rolls out.    Swims back in.     Flows around her friend.

EXT. GREEN HOUSE - DAY

An outhouse stands unobtrusively near the edge of the cliff. See

Agnis alone, approaching. Something in her hand. As she reaches

the outhouse, we see it is...

...the ziploc bag. With her brother's ashes.        She gazes back at

the house now. Then, at the bag...

She opens the door, enters.       Stares down into the deep hole.

Unzips the bag, and...

...TIPS the ashes DOWN INTO the hole. Watch them in SLO-MO,

falling free. Hear the rustle of Agnis lifting her skirts, and...

CLOSE ANGLE on Agnis' face.       Staring out at the sea through a small

crack in the outhouse wall.       HEAR the splatter as she voids

herself.

INT. WAVEY'S PARLOR - DAY

Daycare in progress. The comfy parlor has been given over to the

kids. A wall of Polaroids of each child faces a map of

Newfoundland with drawings of moose, caribou, and lobster. Little

Herry sits alone in a doorway, watching with big eyes as...

...Quoyle, Bunny astride his back, RAMPAGES around the parlor on

all fours, SNORTING like a crazed boar. The kids are squealing,

delighted, making excited little runs at him, swatting him with

throw pillows and rolled-up sweaters. Thrill of the hunt.

Wavey comes through the doorway, drying her hands, just behind

where her boy sits. Quoyle doesn't see her, he's thrashing and

bellowing, lost in the game. She watches, for a long beat. Then

leans down to Herry.

Herry grins like the devil. Dashes off to PLOW INTO the prey,

knocking them sprawling. Kids PILING on.

Wavey's unseen smile.       The start of something?

INT. WAVEY'S KITCHEN - LATER

CLOSE on Quoyle.     He is happily washing a mountain of dishes and

cups.

PULL BACK to see Wavey beside him.       She's drying what he washes.

They don't look at each other.      Poker-faced, just alike, working

side by side.

He can't help but snort out a chuckle of his own.       Sneaks a look

over at her, and she...

...laughs out loud.    Healthy.   Sexy, even.   But from the delay, he

guesses...

She looks over at him.     Her eyes dance a little.

And he is lost in those eyes.     Knows it's showing.     Glances away to

where...

...Bunny sits in a corner.     Reading to a rapt Herry.

Bunny looks over at him.     He is so dumb.

Herry nods.   Later.   And out of the blue...

Quoyle looks over to the woman. But instead of Wavey, he sees

PETAL, staring at him with slow predatory heat.

And then, once more she is...

Quoyle.   Takes note.

INT. GAMMY BIRD - DAY

Quoyle alone in the office, pretending to peck away at a story.

Actually, he's looking...

...through the window. Where Jack Buggit, Tert Card, Billy Pretty

and Nutbeem are all circling around a small, roughly-made boat,

attached to its rented trailer. They are talking to each other in

learned tones. A Talmudic chat. And...

...in they come.     First through the door...

Uh-oh. He looks from one face to another. Even Billy is

irritated. Nutbeem gazes down, embarrassed for him.

Quoyle can't believe this.      Hot shame burns.

And standing in the doorway, the scariest sight of all.    The boss.

Just shaking his head.

The word from Sinai on Quoyle's worth.       A pity.

Out the door with a SLAMM!      Quoyle stares hopelessly after him.

Holds up some sheets of paper.       Photos of the Melvilles'

botterjacht. Reads...

Card still reading.

Silence.

He looks up.   Equal parts disgust and delight.

Quoyle straightens his spine.

Strides off for the door.     Turns back...

Out the door.   SLAMM harder than Jack's.

EXT. GAMMY BIRD - DAY

Quoyle stumbling toward his wagon with vacant eyes.

EXT. GREEN HOUSE ROOF - DAY

Quoyle in a carpenter's belt, climbing very carefully from a ladder

onto the roof. His vertigo apparent as he keeps to his hands and

knees, trying to fight the compulsion to look down. Gives in to

it, peering from the corner of his eye down the cliff, the rocks,

the sea so far below. Not a good 1dea.

Comes to the shingles. Eases his way into a fearful crouch.   Okay.

Starts hammering. And rehearsing.

Nodding, in time to the hammer strokes.

Hammers LOUDER, speaking in rhythm...

Stops.

Hear now what the hammering had masked. Someone is reaching the

top of the ladder, climbing onto the roof.

Bunny. Somehow she has managed to climb while carrying a sandwich

on a plate. And an open bottle of soda. He stares at her,

uncomprehending.

She sets them down.     Stands UP on the steep pitch.

As the plate and bottle slip neatly OFF the roof and, after a

noticeable beat, shatter softly far below. Bunny's turn to be

shocked. She's contemplating going after them.

Okay, that was a little loud. It has also scared the kid out of

her wits. Quoyle regrets this. Starts scooching awkwardly down

the slope, inches at a time...

She's just staring over the side. Hypnotized by the sight.        He's

slipping toward her. Toward the edge.

Closer, reaching toward her back...

...GRABS her arm, she STARTLES, violently LURCHING, but he YANKS

her to him. Holds her to his heart. Holds her. He is breathing

like a freight train.

INT. GAMMY BIRD - MORNING

Jack Buggit enters with energy.     Looks around.    Billy's typing,

Nutbeem's reading. Quoyle is cleaning out his desk, pulling things

off his little shelf to pack away. Goofy photo of Bunny. Ceramic

child-made three-legged turtle. Tiny padded box with what looks to

be carefully-preserved empty eggshells.

Jack heads toward him.

Quoyle turns. Pretty much all his possessions are in a big

cardboard box. Jack peers into it.

But he's smiling.   Like he's got the point.

Grasps Quoyle around the back of the neck.

Quoyle stares, slack-faced into the elfin eyes...

Just now, Card's jaw is scraping his boot tops.

Quoyle doesn't.

A wink.   He heads toward the door.    And never looking at him...

Card looks down. He zips up, as the door slams. Billy Pretty

sends Quoyle a thumbs-up, without turning. Nutbeem clasps his

hands above his head, like a winning prizefighter.

Quoyle slides a sheet of paper into his typewriter.         Stares at it.

INT. AGNIS' SHOP - DAY

A woman looks up from her stitching. She is solidly built, pushing

60, Emily Dickinson hair. A cheerful, calmly butch way about her.

Trustworthy eyes.

Mavis holds out a hearty hand. Agnis is showing him the shop. A

cutting table, two sewing stations. Billowing sailcloth hung over

the windows. Racks of leathers and fabrics.

Dawn, once described by Agnis as young and on the sexy side, is

that. Red lipstick and nails. Her eyes float up in a way that

suggests reflexive sensuality. Agnis nods to her, and the girl

reaches a slender pale hand...

And as she releases his hand, her eyes flick to Agnis. Some

conspiracy there. Quoyle follows his aunt back to the big cutting

table.

Shows him sheets of baby blue leather.

Points to them.    A neat row by the makeshift kitchenette.

But Agnis is thinking...

And as he glances off, he sees Dawn across the way.      Her skirt

hiked up, as if she were adjusting a stocking.

She isn't wearing any.

EXT. HILLSIDE - DAY

Billowy clouds frame a languid KITE, silver and sleek, darting this

way and that. Graceful, in command of the currents.

See her now, seated atop a grassy slope. It is she who holds the

string, and her boy is way down at the bottom of the hill with

Bunny. Blue jumper billowing, the girl is teaching him how to make

necklaces from wildflowers and garbage bag twisty-ties. Herry and

the naked Barbies watch with great attention. The learning will

come later.

On this he looks up.     Serious.

PULL BACK slightly to reveal that Quoyle has been sitting right

beside her all along. He holds the string of a big, glum kite that

hangs motionless in space with barely a flutter. As she watches

the kids, he stares at her, fixedly deciding whether to ask...

Wavey looks over.     Sees that he's worried half to death.

Do you understand that?

The necklaces, yeh.     A thought that frightens him.

She does.

Her kind smile.     No big deal.

Wavey's slow nod.

Very quiet now.    The wind.     The kites.

That was naked.    He swallows.

Too serious a subject.       Too good a woman.     For an easy lie.

She swallows, too.    Her eyes are damp.

Hold the look.

EXT. WOODS - LATER

Quoyle RUNNING, huffing, through a bog with every color of berries

imaginable. Around another bend in the path. Stops. Hands on his

knees.

Listens.   Nothing.   Shit.

More nothing. He trudges back the way he came.              Peeks around a

bend to see...

...Bunny is teaching Berry to pick gooseberries. This time, the

learning has started. They are being very careful.

Quoyle SLAPS his hands across his mouth.         Sorry!     He tiptoes off.

Rounds a bend. Walking faster now...

Around another bend. And stops.         Hold on his face.      REVERSE ANGLE

to take his view of...

...Petal, kneeling in a flimsy sundress, picking berries.

Barefoot, her skirt hiked up, stained with berry juice. And when

she turns to him...

...she is still Petal. Her face is beautiful, and filled with

tender desire. She looks at him the way he has always dreamed she

would. He goes to...

...kneel beside her.       Touch her waist.    And now she is...

...another woman. His hand is on Wavey's waist, and it comes

slowly away. But her eyes are locked to his. Making her choice.

Even in kindness, he can smell rejection.          He starts to back away,

but she takes his hand. Holds it.

He nods, dumbly.     Of course.     Okay.

Hard for her.   He quiets.

Do you understand?

Silence.

She stares in his eyes.

No smile.

A beat. Quoyle nods, sure. I'll be your friend. But what she

sees is a lifetime of being Quoyle washing past his eyes. It makes

her murmur...

And from his heart...

He stands up.   HEAR him stumble off.     HOLD on her.

EXT. GREEN HILLSIDE - DAY

A grassy place above an empty sea.      The rest of the world far away.

Two figures climb the gentle hill.

Oh.

On this. Quoyle's smile fades. He looks away. They've reached a

fence where blunt pickets enclose crosses and wooden markers, many

fallen on the ground.

Billy finds the right marker. Sets his satchel onto the grass.

Kneels. His old fingers clear debris from painted words:

W. PRETTY. 1897 - 1944. THROUGH THE GREAT STORMS OF LIFE, HE

DID HIS BEST. GOD GRANT HIM ETERNAL REST.

He hears the thread of feeling in his simple words. And says no

more. Withdraws two cans of paint from his bag. One white, one

black. Two brushes. Lays them out carefully, for this task is

sacred.

Pries the lid off the tin of black.     And when he sees Quoyle's

eyes...

An easy smile.   Stating the obvious.

The old man's face just stops.     The eyes sharpen.   Into a question.

As if that were enough.

Billy stares at him.     Stares at him.   Clears his throat, gruffly.

EXT. GREEN HOUSE - DAY

Quoyle exits the house, pulling on his jacket, and...

...stops. Something laid across his threshold. A long piece of

TWINE has been placed there. KNOTS tied evenly along its length.

He glances back up to the second floor, thinking Bunny. Looks at

the thing again. Neat work. Odd. Slips it in his pocket.

EXT. CLIFFSIDE - DAY

Quoyle now making his way down a steep primitive trail through lush

vegetation. The green house is far above him. The shimmering bay

now just below. This way down as treacherous as it is wondrous,

and Quoyle SLIPS in the tangle and wet, half-slides through wild

angelica stalks and patches of dogberry, suddenly...

...LOSING his balance, TUMBLING roughly down a stretch, rolling,

grasping a spruce trunk. Pulling himself to his feet, he hears...

RUSTLING. Looks up, just as...

...a WHITE DOG appears through the bushes. Red eyes. Lips curled

back. A frozen second of mutual indecision, and Quoyle...

...SCREAMS and falls on his butt.     The dog...

...TAKES OFF, bounding down a path we hadn't noticed. Toward an

upright SILHOUETTE. Who steps into sun just long enough to

become...

...a MAN, grizzled and scrawny and quick.      Gone in a flash.   Like a

skinny ghost. And there, on his butt...

...Quoyle laughs softly.     How 'bout that?   Murmurs...

As he climbs to his feet, he sees the rocky beach just below.

Squints, as if at something that doesn't belong. We see it now...

...a SUITCASE, washed up onto a tangle of rocks, just offshore.

ANGLE...Quoyle wading into the water. Up to his knees, slips,

sinks to his waist. Stays upright. Snatches the suitcase from its

perch. Brings it back to shore, holding it high. Already, he is

making the face of someone smelling something he'd rather not.

He sets it down. The face is worse.     His curiosity running the

show, he unhooks the latch...

...and stops. Because he's staring inside. Suddenly, he SCREAMS

and FLAILS back, his leg STRIKING the case, and out tumbles onto

the wet ground...

...the head.   Of Bayonet Melville.

INT. SKIPPER WILL'S DINER - NIGHT

Three guys. Three beers. Five squidburgers (Quoyle likes his

backups ready and waiting).

Quoyle thinks better of his answer.    Chomps a bite instead.

...takes his hand from his greasy burger.    Scratches his crotch

below the table.

And winks at the silent hero.

Quoyle.   And Nutbeem.   Just look at each other.

Quoyle viciously BITES into his squidburger.

Card blinks.   Looks at Quoyle with, dare we say, new respect.

Scratches his crotch savagely.      To honor civilization.

Puts his squidburger.    Where his mouth is.    Nutbeem clarifies for

Quoyle...

INT. WAVEY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

ANGLE...brightly lit kitchen. Bunny sits at the little table, a

large mixing bowl filled with popcorn before her, little Herry at

her side. They are watching Freakazoid on a tiny TV. Bunny

shovels in a mouthful of popcorn. Then makes a sage, if

unintelligible, comment about the show to Herry. Still chewing,

she takes another huge handful of popcorn...

...Herry opens his mouth like a baby bird. Bunny stuffs the snack

in. It's a stare-and-chew, side by side. Just alike.

ANGLE...cozy parlor. Quoyle sits in a Barca-lounger with a huge

bowl of chips in his lap. He is watching hockey on a modest TV,

the action is fierce. Stuffs his mouth full of chips, yet somehow

manages to say...

PULL BACK to see Wavey now. Curled on the sofa, under a lap robe.

She is knitting something in a heavy oxblood-colored wool. He

watches her work.

Keeps her eyes on her work.

A silence.   Which makes him uneasy.

She meant to reassure him.    Instead...

Looks up with smoky eyes.

Oh.

Quoyle's smile tries to sell the innocence of his absence.

No smile from her. She wants him to know she was hurt.           He shakes

his head, serious now. No, I didn't forget.

He holds up what's left of his four-decker.          This is plenty.   Takes

a huge bite to show how much he likes it.

He did, he nods.     But just now he's scared to. And so she smiles.

Which traps him.     He pulls out a single sheet of paper. Clears his

throat.

She nods. Likes that. He gestures, go back to your knitting.             So

she smiles, slyly. And commences to knit.

This means something to him.       Hear it in his voice.

He stops.    As if revisiting that little thought in his mind.

He sneaks a glance.       She has never looked up.

Silence.    A full one.

She reflects.

Quoyle keeps nodding at each point.          Yep.   Yep.

Quoyle's heart explodes in his chest.          And shines in his eyes.

There is a long silence.

He swallows.    He just doesn't want to cry from happiness.

INT. GAMMY BIRD - DAY

CLOSE on Card. Who is RIPPING the single page in half. Then

again. And again. And again. See Quoyle now, standing at the

desk like a statue. Billy and Nutbeem at their stations, watching

as Card...

...flutters the pieces down onto his desk.       Like falling snow.

A hush.    A frozen tableau in this room.

He slides the battered camera across the desk. They glare at each

other a full beat. Card belches, softly. Quoyle takes the camera,

heads for the door...

Quoyle turns.    Card doesn't.

Thinks.

HOLD on him.    Making a neat little pile of the torn pieces.

SLAMM! Across the room, Nutbeem stands.        Takes his cigarettes.

Passing Card's desk, on the way out...

SLAMM!    Card shoots Billy a challenging look.     You got something to

say?

Do you.

Just turns around.     Flicks ON his computer.   Back to work.

EXT. GREEN HOUSE - TWILIGHT

Bunny jumping out of the wagon, running to the house.      As Quoyle

locks his car...

He looks up.   She is pushing the front door with one finger.     It

swings OPEN.

...and lifts a long piece of TWINE. There are KNOTS neatly tied

along its length. Quoyle stares. Stares.

INT. FRONT HALLWAY - TWILIGHT

Quoyle climbing the stairs in fading light. He carries a tire

iron. Stops midway. Listens to the silence.

Up, up, to the top.     Looking down the empty hall to see...

...knotted twine.     At every door.

INT. GAMMY BIRD - EARLY MORNING

Quoyle enters, haggard and distracted. The place is lit, but

empty. A toilet FLUSHES. From the loo, appears...

Nodding toward something behind Quoyle. Turning, we see that

hanging over Card's desk is an oversized framed photo of: QUIET

EYE - WORLD'S LARGEST OIL TANKER. Quoyle stares blankly.

Card just goes to the fresh stack of newspapers on his desk.       Hands

one toward Quoyle...

A photo of the same tanker.       That hangs on Card's wall.

Stares at the paper.     In his hand.

Quoyle looks up.     Card flinches back.    But all that comes is...

Drops the paper on the floor.       Steps on it, on his way toward the

door.

Quoyle turns back.

A wink.

The cackle of the guy holding the straight flush.

Quoyle puts his hand on the door.

Out the door.   It closes behind him.    Card alone, crosses his arms

in glee...

HOLD on Card.   DISSOLVE TO...

INT. GAMMY BIRD - DAY

CLOSE on a box of assorted doughnuts. Two dozen. A hand reaches

down toward a raspberry swirl, thinks better of it, moves

thoughtfully along the selection to pluck a maple glaze, and bring

it to...

...Quoyle's mouth. The box rests beside the cardboard carton into

which Quoyle is packing his things. Nutbeem sits on the edge of

the desk, nibbling a cruller. Billy is bringing three mugs of

coffee. Looks like a going-away party. Through the glass of the

only private office...

...Jack Buggit is talking. Card is not. Card stands now, strides

to the door, flings it OPEN. Nutbeem taps Quoyle's shoulder with

his pastry. They look to...

He's looking straight in Quoyle's eyes.     Defiant as ever.

Lives to needle this guy.     Card keeps his laser gaze on Quoyle.

Nutbeem's eyes WIDEN. He mimes catching an arrow shot through his

chest. Falls OFF the desk.

Quoyle looks him in the eyes.     Starts putting his things back in

his desk.

Hear the SLAMM!

EXT. OMALOOR BAY - DAY

The sky threatens black. Quoyle picks his way across the rocks to

his ungainly, much-maligned boat, as it bobs against the weathered

dock. He crouches, and as he begins to untie it, his gaze drifts

out toward the nearby point, and...

...something catches his eye. A boulder in the shape of a great

dog. And as he stares, there is something below it. Something in

a cove protected from intrusion by a jagged ring of menacing

rocks...

...it is a MAN in a yellow suit. His head under the surface as if

looking for fish. Arms and legs spread out like a starfish, the

body slides in and out of a small cave. Tugged by the sea like a

top on a string.

Quoyle stares in frozen shock.

No way in past the pounding surf, the savage rocks.    So Quoyle

turns sharply. Squints across the bay.

CLIMBS into his boat, TURNS the engine over.    KICKS it in overdrive

toward the town across the bay.

STREAKING out, toward the black sky.    Racing to open sea where the

chop INCREASES drastically. Closer.     Closer...

...clear of the point's protection, the wind ROCKS the tiny craft,

swells coming BROADSIDE. The boat RISES, then DROPS with cruel

speed. Quoyle tries to swing the boat around, the propeller RACES,

the bow PITCHES violently, SLAMMING down, the stern SWAMPED, the

hull filling, swerving broadside just as the oncoming sea HITS with

all its force, and the little boat...

...rolls OVER, Quoyle suddenly FLYING under water, limbs flailing

in all directions...

INTERCUT...Quoyle's dad FLINGING him into the public pool, the

youngster SINKING like an anvil in a profusion of bubbles, and

CUT...

BACK to Quoyle, struggling madly somehow to the surface, THRASHING

toward the overturned boat, GRASPING the stilled propeller shaft,

which causes the bow to lift, the next wave turning the boat

upright, FILLING it with water, and it SINKS forever, as Quoyle...

...TUMBLES once more beneath the surface, watching the boat

DISAPPEAR into darkness below him.

Back to the surface, GASPING for air. And then, daintily rowing a

small boat, unaffected by the waves, her filmy dress rippling in

light breeze...

Is the lilting smile cruel?   Or only the irony that conveys

intimacy, even affection.

And VANISHES. In her place, bobs a red BOX. A plastic beer

cooler. He LUNGES for it, GRIPPING the handles, resting his chest

on its top.

The waves RISE, mountainous now, and he rises and falls with them.

He has been swept a mile from the nearest shore.

INTERCUT...a winch pulling part of the Geo, streaming mud, from

swiftly flowing water. Police and bystanders gathered.

BACK to the bay. A barely-conscious Quoyle still clings somehow to

the plastic cooler. But hours have passed. Light is fading.

He turns. And there she is. Beaming at him from the bow of her

little rowboat, a smile ambiguous in the growing dusk. It could be

love. From behind her a light GLOWS, giving Petal the aspect of an

angel.

She drops a wink.   FADES away.    And the light becomes...

...the BEAM from a fishing boat. Quoyle squints his swollen eyes,

as strong hands WRENCH him from his box. From the sea. A voice

warbles, distorted by wind and Quoyle's diminished consciousness...

Quoyle's teeth are chattering so hard, his body shivering so

painfully, Buggit hauls him over the rail and lays him down on a

wriggling mound of fish.

Quoyle burrows into the fish, like nestling in a down comforter.

Jack covers him with a heavy tarp. Crouches down close...

INT. BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT

Dim light. Quoyle stirs beneath the billowing down coverlet.   His

eyes flutter. Open. Where...?

His head SNAPS around. She's sitting just beside the bed in half-

shadow. Her oxblood knitting across her lap.

Now he sees the cigarette.

Now he sees the smile.

His voice was a croak. So he CLEARS his throat with a massive and

disgusting effort. It is gross and funny, and she smiles again.

He rolls over, to see her better.      They are very close.

Oh.   As he draws a breath to ask...

She glances to the nightstand. Beneath the dim lamp.       A picture of

Jack and blond son Jesson. Guess what they're doing.

A beat.

A longer one.

He nods.   He will.

Ah.   He nods.   Well, that figures.

On this, she stubs out her cigarette.      Takes another from the pack.

He shakes his head.

STRIKES a match.

Brings her cigarette.   To the flame.

And.

His eyes at once rapt and suffering.     She watches that.

Draws on her smoke.

Do you understand?

Tears are pooling in his eyes.   Hers, too.     She keeps going...

A thin stream of air escapes from his lips.

Bitter smile.

Quoyle thinking.     Madly.   What can he do?

She stares back.     Unease to match his own.   Maybe time.

INT. ALVIN YARK'S BOAT HOUSE - DAY

A wiry wisp of an aged elf, ALVIN YARK is shaping the center beam

of what will become a tidy boat. Its wooden skeleton across two

sawhorses in his spacious workshop.

Quoyle, Wavey and Dennis stand in a row. Watching the little

artisan shave wood as if his tools were his hands.

Wavey can't help but smile.      She really likes the old duck.

And says no more. Keeps working. They are like acolytes at the

feet of a guru who never bothers even to glance their way.

Everyone smiles.     Except the guru.

Everyone looks.     Except the guru.

A beat.

Now he turns.     A maritime Yoda, squinting to discern if his message

is received.

He runs his hand along the backbone of the boat he's building.

Crinkly old eyes, laser bright.        Dennis isn't angry.       Just

resolved.

No smile, no spin.     Just the truth.

In the silence.     A door opens.

A sprightly bird-like woman.        Wears apology and concern.

INT. PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE

The PRINCIPAL is spare, dressed for England, her voice

authoritarian by its pace, exaggerated diction, and lack of volume.

Seated in a semi-circle around the desk of power. Quoyle,

stricken, respectful. Wavey, already pissed off at the principal.

And Bunny,her hat and coat on, arms folded, face crimson and set.

Do you understand the severity of this, Mr.       Quoyle?

Is that right, young lady?

Bunny looks down.    Glaring an evil spell of death at her own

kneecaps.

And stands.

EXT. PATH - DAY

Quoyle and Bunny alone, hand-in-hand, walking slow where they once

picked berries. Nobody's talking.

Apparently, that hasn't happened yet.      More walking.

Said like he means it.    Which he does.     And Bunny, squinting up,

sees that.

INTERCUT...the crime. Playground filled with kids. Bunny and

girlfriends on the jungle gym. Bunny the best, a natural jock.

MRS. LUMBULL large, sour, doughy, and betrayed by life, stands with

her silver whistle in the midst of chaos. Her thoughts on a higher

plane.

Little Herry Prowse comes to tug at the teacher's wool coat. He is

holding his crotch and jumping up and down. This does not require

an advanced credential to interpret.

Mrs. Lumbull looks down. From her face as she responds, she has

already devoted, over time, more professional attention to this

troublemaker than should be asked of any dedicated educator.

Herry, seemingly, disagrees. Still holding his crotch, he jumps up

and down with greater agitation. She grabs him, rather roughly, by

the arm. Marches him over to...

...and walks off, pointedly ignoring him from ten feet away. He

screams, pumping his fists in frustration. Grabs himself,

suddenly. Whether or not we can see the dampness spread, we can

see his humiliation all too clearly. As his tears come...

...a figure BOLTS into frame from behind Mrs. Lumbull. Hunched

over like a linebacker, full speed ahead, LAUNCHING herself into

the back of the large woman's knees. Her feet go UP, and the rest

of her goes...

...DOWN like the proverbial amount of bricks. Herry's tears stop

fast. Watching the woman shriek, and keep shrieking. Makes him

laugh. CUT...

BACK TO...the berry path.   They are sitting on a fallen log.

Quoyle pulls out a single Snickers bar.

He looks at her.      Nods, probably will.    Peels the candy bar free of

its wrapper.

He breaks the candy bar in half.        Tho not quite equally.

He nods.   Oh, yeh.

Oh.

He holds out the two pieces of candy. She takes them both.         the

bigger one in his mouth. As he chews...

She nibbles at her own piece.

Hmmn?

Right?   Her father doesn't react.       He's even stopped chewing.

And slowly.    Quoyle nods.    I said.

EXT. NOLAN'S SHED - DAY

Quoyle picks his way down to the battered boat shed, hidden at the

foot of his cliff. He carries a big carton, which we see has made

the journey slow and awkward. Across the gravel now, to...

...the door. HEAR the fire crackling, see the smoke curling.

Takes a breath. Knocks softly. Then LOUDER.

No answer.    Juggle the box, lift the latch.      Enter...

INT. NOLAN'S SHED - NIGHT

The old man and the dog huddled together at the fire. They look

over with red eyes. Just alike. Only one growls. Quoyle finds a

smile, a soft voice...

Nolan is listening. Sharp-eared, sharp-eyed. What trick is this?

So Quoyle sets the carton down in the squalor. Takes out a loaf of

fresh bread. One step forward. Lay it down.

Good faith offering.    And...

...Nolan scuttles to it. Like a wary crab. He tears off a chunk

of bread. Nibbles. He likes it. And as he eats...

...crouches down to the old man's size.        Almost close enough to

touch.

He's found the meat.    Ripped off a chunk.

Stuffs some into his face.      Like this, even better.

She.

And as Quoyle draws a breath to ask...

A moment.   Of stone silence.

Quoyle's wide-eyed shock.

INTERCUT...a tiny frozen pond. Long ago. A girl of 12, rawboned,

husky, skating alone. We've seen her, in the photo at Quoyle's

dad's house. And as she skates, she looks up to see...

...a boy of 15, stocky, sullen. He was in the same photo. Only

now, he steps onto the ice. Unbuttons his pants. Begins to slide

toward her on the soles of his fishing boots. She looks around.

Snow banked on all sides of the pond. Nowhere to run on her

skates.

The girl, breathless, skating this way and that. The boy closing

in, cutting off her angle. A deadly endgame. There are no words.

And...

...he is ON her. Pulling her TUMBLING to the ice in SLO-MO.

No sound but their hot breath, the grunt of the struggle, and

CUT BACK to...

INT.   AGNIS' NEW SHOP, KILLICK-CLAW - DAY

Agnis and Mavis are showing Wavey their new shop. It is big and

bright with more elaborate fittings, the amount of work piled up

carries the scent of success. Quoyle trails behind, as Agnis dotes

on Wavey like a prize new daughter-in-law. When she turns, she

sees her nephew staring...

He was staring pretty intently.    Realizes that.

She holds his gaze with her own.    Is she wondering?

Everybody turns on that one. Mavis cuts her alter ego Agnis a

look. Can you believe this slut?

She actually looks pretty good in it.      Wavey noticing that.

Watching Quoyle say...

Polite banter? Or outright flirting? Hard to tell if it's Wavey

or Agnis who disapproves more. Dawn ignores them.

Agnis just blinks.   Can scarcely believe she heard that.

A really frozen beat.

Mavis echoes Agnis' glare.

Agnis turns.   Sizes him up.

Puts her fingers to her lips.      Leans closer, to confide something

he is obviously unaware of...

INT. WAVEY'S KITCHEN - LATE NIGHT

CLOSE on Wavey, cooking flapjacks.      Talking to them.

And she's not pleased.

She scoops them expertly into a stack.

Serves them to...

...Quoyle, who nods absently. About the one thing he is sure of.

Just now, he's examining the prodigious status of her oxblood

knitting. Still attached to the needles, it looks too broad for

a muffler.

A beat.   Another.

She pushes the flapjacks closer to him, CLANKS down the fork, eat!

She's exasperated. Thinks he's wasting his money.

And everything.      Sorta.    Stops.

A meaningful beat.

She looks deep in his eyes. Hard to guess the answer she wants to

hear. He clears his throat. Looks down.

And when he looks to her, she is...

A witheringly sexy smile.

Petal arches a delicate brow.

He blinks.   And sees...

With a playful smile.      Of her own.

EXT. DOUBLE-DECKER BUS, ST. JOHN'S - DAY

Not London, but it might as well be. Wavey and Quoyle atop a red

double-decker bus, wind whipping their hair. She is watching the

big city flow past, drinking every inch of it. He's watching her.

INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

Wavey carries an armload of little girl's tights and corduroy

pants, picking through a bin of barrettes. Quoyle appears with a

fistful of neckties. Holds them up hopefully to his chest one at a

time, each more breathtakingly godawful than the last. Well? She

SHIVERS with disgust. Lifts from her shopping bag a nice conser-

vative one she's already picked for him. He SHIVERS, just as she

did. They share the trace of a grin, just alike. He walks off.

...Wavey trying on furry hats in a full-length mirror, as Quoyle

keeps feeding her an endless supply from a double armful. She

pouts and poses like a runway model, basically frowning that the

hats aren't working. He's staring at her as if nothing else exists

in the universe. She knows it.

...Wavey alone at a cash register. The checker is ringing up a

selection of lacy bras and panties. Suddenly, Wavey looks up to

see Quoyle at the register one aisle over, staring fixedly at her

purchases. Seeing she's noticed him, he holds up a huge pair of

loud boxer shorts he's buying, and WAVES them at her. She laughs

and waves her bras right back. Civilians watching think they're

in love.

EXT./INT. ST. JOHN'S - DAY/NIGHT

...Quoyle and Wavey stroll the grounds of Nolan's future retirement

home. It is twilight, and the modest place looks pleasant and

welcoming. Quoyle listens earnestly, as the director points things

out. Wavey watching Quoyle, her gaze not so disapproving after

all.

...CLOSE on Quoyle with a bowling ball, poised, glaring our way.

Here he comes. Stumbles. Lets go. REVERSE ANGLE to see the ball

rolling, rolling real slow. Quoyle turns his back, strides away

with confidence like he doesn't even have to watch, this is too

easy. Wavey points, look. He turns in time to see two pins fall.

Pumps his fist. YESSSS!

INT. BAR - NIGHT

It's late. It's dim. It's as romantic as urban Newfoundland will

ever get. Our couple nursing beers at the corner table of a

passably stylish bar. Piano playing show tunes, but soft. He

pulls from his pocket...

...a travel brochure.     Slightly drunk, completely merry, almost

wicked smile.

She's already grinning.     Feels so comfortable.

His subtle smile.     A guy could get used to this irony stuff.

...innocent, natural.       At some primal level, his panic begins.

She nods.    She did.

Even Quoyle. Has the message. He looks down at his beer, as he

thinks about what he should say. Turns the glass in his fingers.

He nods.    Almost to himself.

He looks up.    Her eyes are waiting.

And everything.    Stops.

But she's looking in his eyes.       And so, she does.

That's what it is.

A beat.

He sighs. The most miserable and the most honest he has ever been.

All at once.

His eyes are swimming.       Can she possibly hear this?

Silence.   The piano plays something gay and stupid.

The last word was a tough one.       It makes her nod. She stares in

his eyes for the longest time.       And when she speaks, he can scarely

hear her voice...

But.   One word.    And even a stupid guy.    Gets it all.

Wow. He nods, dumbly.        Watching his worst nightmare unfold before

his eyes.

She gets to her feet.       She does seem a little unsteady.

But he stops.     Because she's shaken her head once.      Don't.

Her voice chokes a little on that.        She shakes her head, half-

grinning at how foolish she feels.        She smiles at him now. Like

she means it.

And leaves.     Without another word.

He wants to cry. He wants to be sick. He doesn't know what he

wants. Fumbles in his pocket for some wadded-up bills.

DISSOLVE SLOWLY TO...

INT. SKIPPER WILL'S DINER - NIGHT

The boys, the beers, the squidburgers.        The usual.

Move?

A good friend.     Quoyle is touched.

The way he said that.     They both turn.     A shrug...

Wouldn't want that. Very silent at this table.            Against the din of

the place. Is he serious?

And smiles.    Serious as a heart attack.      A long beat.

Careful?

So much feeling behind his eyes.     Nutbeem can only say...

And return the feeling.     With his own.

EXT./INT. NUTBEEM'S TRAILER - TWILIGHT

Quoyle GROANING under the weight of cases of beer and cheap rum

pulled from the back of his wagon. Plenty more to go. Staggers

into...

...Nutbeem's   tiny, threadbare trailer. Every conceivable surface

under stacks   of plastic-wrapped party platters of cold cuts, cheese

and red-eyed   olives. Nutbeem is jamming beers into tubs of ice.

Quoyle peers   into the teensy closet that is the only bathroom...

SEE it now.    Half a sawed-off empty BARREL, with MOLASSES stenciled

in orange, fills the shower stall.

Quoyle sends him a blank look.

He gestures to thirty bags of potato chips, filling the

kitchenette.

INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

VIEW out a window at the line of HEADLIGHTS still arriving. We are

immersed in the ungodly WHITE NOISE of an all-gentleman's Newfie

soiree, music pushed beyond the level of distortion, assorted

grunts, squeals, unintelligible words, things breaking. As we

struggle to look around...

...every square inch is    crammed tight with semi-conscious drunks.

Tert Card and some boys    circle the potato chip barrel, which has

become a handy urinal.     Near the door, Dennis holding forth, arm

tight around Quoyle who    listens, listens, chuckles. Then Quoyle

fights his way...

...OUT of the trailer, to cold night air where the party is MUCH

wilder, given the elbow room. Quoyle steps OVER the supine form o

Billy Pretty, who is singing to himself. Finds Jack Buggit with a

beer in one hand a rum in the other. Wraps a drunken arm around

Jack's neck. Starts to talk in his ear. Jack looks suspicious. A

FIGHT breaks out a few feet away. They don't notice. Closing in,

to hear...

Jack nods.   Grins.    That's pretty funny.

This.   Is even funnier.

Funniest yet.   Jack is chuckling already.

Quoyle is chortling.   But Jack stares him dead in the eyes.

At which point Jack BUSTS OUT laughing fit to wet his pants...

POUNDING on poor Quoyle, who is also dissolved in hysterics.

Nearby, the biggest and ugliest GUY at the party (no small

distinction) leaps onto a tree stump brandishing an AXE.

Even in this crowd, it commands a certain degree of attention.

Cries of YAR! fill the woods. Nutbeem himself is HOISTED on

shoulders, whooping and sloshing his grog.

An idea that wins IMMEDIATE MASS APPROVAL. Soused Nutbeem's eyes

open bug-wide, as he is borne in a tidal wave of mayhem toward the

docks. Whatever he is shrieking may well prove ineffective.

And rather suddenly.   Quoyle is left alone.

Among the conscious, that is.

INT. WAVEY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Knitted wool, the color of oxblood, lies across a timeworn leather

ottoman. In front of it, little Herry dances a shuffle-foot jig of

his own design. The music seeps from a venerable accordian, played

earnestly by his serious mom, nodding and tapping her foot to the

time of his steps.

There is a feeling of empowerment and release in Herry. His grin

splits his round face. His eyes say that his heart is dancing.

PULL SLOWLY BACK...through the window, past the porch, across the

front yard. To a figure. By the fence. He stands motionless.

Except his foot is tapping, very slightly, to the time of the

music.

We can't tell how much Quoyle sees.    But his eyes say that his

heart is drowning.

EXT. NUTBEEM'S TRAILER - MORNING

As Quoyle shuffles up, we see Nutbeem's trailer has been turned

completely OVER onto its side. Walls are crushed and splintered.

It's a train wreck.

Sitting on the cinder blocks that once supported it, Nutbeem,

and Dennis swig beers.

Nutbeem hands him a beer.

Quoyle looks sadly at the trailer.    Realizing it was his place that

got trashed.

The boys look at each other.    Humiliated by his generosity.

Quoyle is looking at him somewhat strangely.

Maybe too light not to be obvious.     Billy looks from Quoyle to the

trailer. And back.

Which seems to cover everything.

EXT. JACK BUGGIT'S SKIFF - DAY

Quoyle alone with Jack in open water. Pulling on a slicker,

gloves, picking up a knife. Jack is pronging cod onto the deck.

And so, together, they begin to clean a small mountain of cod.

Doesn't look up.

Quoyle will.

Yup.     Believe it.

Keeps working.

No arguments arise.

Uh-oh.     You don't mean...

Quoyle swallows.       Arguably the proudest moment of his life.

Jack looks at him for the first time.        A real twinkle behind...

Said with such sincerity, Jack can only nod.          Good.

And before he can stop his mouth...

The mirth dies in his host's eyes. Like a 60-watt bulb in a

brownout. Quoyle swallows the rest.

Quoyle sucks it up.

Jack's eyes.   Flat and cold as the cod he's gutting.

This is not.   Going well.   A dangerous silence.

INT. WAVEY'S PARLOR - DUSK

The day care contingent more organized today. Sort of. Bunny

leading a spirited round of red-light/green-light, as...

...Quoyle enters with a big cardboard box full of presents. As he

shrugs off his coat, he looks at the Christmas tree, its winking

lights. The decorations that seem to be everywhere, many handmade

by these children. He watches Bunny call out 'Red Light!', only to

have Herry ignore it and tackle her anyway.

Mixed emotions, to be sure. A feeling of family he can at least

visit, yet will never be his own. The sad edge catches up with

him, so he strolls on into...

...the kitchen. Wavey baking, what else.      She smiles to see him.

A friend's smile.

He smiles back.    Takes her in for a telling beat, before...

Even better.

They are on top. Personally wrapped in his slightly bulging,

fine-motor-control-challenged, personal style. Be sets them on the

counter.

Meaning, please don't. So she wipes her hands on her apron.    Lets

him see her eyes dance just a flicker.

Delicately unwraps the first. Lifts out a PORCELAIN TEAPOT, finely

painted with an assortment of BERRIES. She holds it in her hands,

at once admiring and wistful. Wondering if there's a message about

their moment together while berry-picking.

A simple pronouncement. She opens the second, flat and narrow. It

is a TURQUOISE BRACELET. Actually, kind of stunning. She blinks,

taken back by the beauty and perhaps the expense.

She doesn't sayanything.   Lets it dangle from her fingers, catch

the light.

She looks to him. Her eyes are shining maybe more than she wants.

Her voice perhaps softer than she even intends...

Covers.   With only a slightly more than friendly smile.

He can only nod. He'd like that.    She holds up one finger, wait a

second. And hurries off.

So he waits. Looking at her kitchen. Feeling his feelings.         She

is back, with two boxes. Sets them down. Nods, go ahead...

...one is heavy and square. He opens it to find a LEATHER-BOUND

CASE. He looks at her, smiles in his childlike way. Opens the

case, which reveals...

...two leather-bound VOLUMES. One a dictionary.      The other a

thesaurus. He is obviously moved.

And when he looks up.

He stares at her long enough to make her nod toward the other

package. Big and flat, but not heavy at all. He lifts the lid,

and pulls out...

...a huge comfy SWEATER.   In oxblood wool.    He is completely

stunned to realize...

Put it on, put it on! So he slips it over his head. Big enough

and then some. This worries her. She plucks at it...

He's just beaming. Hugs himself to show how warm it is.      The

silence is companionable. Then...

She raises a brow.     Can scarcely believe that.

She holds her friendly smile.     But her eyes have changed.

Slightly.

Wait a minute.

Even his voice.    Betrays the longing.

He smiles, self-conscious.

Silence.   A soft...

He nods.   He's glad she understands.

She can't help but show her surprise at that.

He looks worried now.     Shouldn't have brought this up.   And seeing

this...

He nods.     But feels truly awkward now.     So...

Right.     She nods.   She understands this, too.

Takes her teapot and her bracelet.        Holds them.     A gentle barrier.

Her hands now too full for a hug.

With a wonderful smile.

With one of her own.

INT. SCHOOL AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

Quoyle enters a packed auditorium, festooned for Christ's birthday

with every trimming imaginable. Rough fishermen in black jackets

they wear once a year, women in finery, schoolkids at their well-

scrubbed best, antsy with anticipation. The BUZZ is audible,

palpable. No Broadway opening could hope for this level of

eagerness.

As Quoyle comes down the aisle, we see faces we know. Boys from

Nutbeem's party. Billy Pretty with Jack and Mrs. Buggit. Alvin

Yark and his bird-like wife. The old-timer who sold Quoyle his

boat. Mavis Bangs with an empty seat next to her, must be saved

for Agnis. All the kids from daycare. Still, Quoyle searching for

the face he doesn't find. And finally...

...to the third row, where Dennis and Beety have saved him a seat.

Beety gives him a peck on the cheek, and he smiles, settling in,

nervous as hell, just as...

...the school principal, still dressed for England, walks to the

mike at center stage. Holds up her hands like the disciplinarian

she prides herself on being, and they quiet pretty fast.

THUNDEROUS applause, whistling, stamping. She is frustrated for a

moment. Then, waves cheerily against the din, shouting...

And RUNS off-stage, as we DISSOLVE THROUGH a SERIES OF ANGLES...

...the Big Ugly Guy who led the raid on poor Nutbeem's boat stands

in a threadworn suit bulging with his bulk, singing DANNY BOY in

the sweetest tenor one could dream of. PAN an audience, rapt,

motionless. Pavarotti never had more respect.

...Bunny and Marty walk timidly to the front of the stage. Marty

dressed in Christmas reds and greens. Bunny all in blue, which

does look good on her. Kids CALL OUT their names. The place falls

quiet. And the girls begin to sing a plaintive West African HYMN

in small brave voices that sometimes harmonize. It is unexpected

and breathtakingly courageous. Two dads in the third row have

tears flooding their eyes...

...Agnis Hamm walks out alone onto the stage, wearing a brown

jersey, tweed skirt, yellow stockings and red slippers. She has

an odd look on her face, all serious and curious. The laughter and

calls die away to silence. Suddenly, one of her feet SCRATCHES at

the stage, her arms become WINGS, and with a CROONING and CACKLING

she metamorphoses into a PEEVISH HEN protecting an egg. The house

comes DOWN with laughter and UNISON applause. Quoyle glances back

at Mavis Bangs who puts her fingers between her teeth and WHISTLES

in pure delight.

...Wavey Prowse walks onto the rear of the stage, in a long black

smock, carrying her accordion. She turns to the wings, nods, and

out comes little Herry clacking across the stage in tap shoes. A

beat of silence. Mom calls out: ONE, TWO, THREE, rolls into a

savage hornpipe and Herry commences the JIG Quoyle once glimpsed

through a window. Three hundred HEELS coming STOMPING down in

perfect rhythm and lift Herry into a joyous bouncing, rattling

performance that builds in intensity until the finish. He runs

to the edge of the stage, bows DEEP from the waist, stands beaming

in their applause. Then RACES offstage, his mom following with

dignity, and we go with her into the wings...

Once there, Wavey slips OUT of the smock, revealing to the dimness

of the wings, that she is wearing dancer's tights over drop-dead

legs. A close-fitting tunic covered with sequins and glass bugles,

crystal diamonds, and dozens more glittering baubles that send a

shimmer of prisms with her every breath. Herry hands her a top

hat, a cane, and...

...she STALKS back onto the stage, her lithe body strutting and

glinting. A hush of stupefaction falls, only to be washed away

by SHOUTS and WHISTLES, the kind of which have not been heard

since Gypsy Rose Lee startled her first roomful of rubes. In

the bedlam...

...she TWIRLS the top hat on one finger, FLIPS it up in a double

somersault, catching it square on her head. She leans on her cane

And when at last they quiet...

She winks.   They laugh.   Billy laughing loudest.

Twirls the cane recklessly.    In the third row, a goggle-eyed Quoyle

couldn't blink if he tried.

That's right.

WAGGLES her eyebrows, Groucho-style.    They are busting their guts

laughing. Connoisseurs of wit.

She puts her toe out, SLIPS wildly, windmilling her arms,

pantomiming as she bends double under the phantom clock.

Tears are streaming from a hundred eyes and more.

Bows to the old gal in the front row, who is scarlet-faced in

hysterics, as all around her applaud. Wavey becomes her, inching

along, casting fierce glances right and left to warn the world.

She is Billy once more, beneath his burden, her long legs stutter-

stepping to one side, then the other, slipping, skidding, the

howling all around her threatening to shatter walls, and...

Miming the wild ride as they ROAR...

She becomes Auntie Fizzard once more, shuffling, looking left,

right, and suddenly up WILD-EYED!

Nods sadly.   Leaning on her cane.     When at last they quiet.

She says.

Levels a dead-eyed killer gaze.

The place comes DOWN like a house of cards. Bedlam surrounds

Quoyle who sits still as a stone. Too dazzled to breathe.

EXT. ROADSIDE DINER - EARLY MORNING.

Lonely stretch of wooded road, middle of nowhere. Light snow just

starting to fall. A truck pulls up beneath a tree. Out climbs...

...Wavey. Looking grim, walking slow. Crosses the road to a

weathered diner. The woman who only smokes when she's worried,

pulls out a pack of Camels. Looks through the diner's frosted

window...

...a lone customer sits nursing his coffee. He is 40, lean, very

attractive. Dark hard eyes, set into worries of their own. Wavey

lights up. Watches in silence until...

...the man looks up. Their eyes meet through the glass.      Hold.

And on his faint smile...

She turns her back.   Starts up the road.

ANGLE...he is walking beside her now. Snow drifting lazy, her

smoke curling up. He watches her anger, how cold and quiet and

closed. Smiles at her profile...

She can't even believe he said that.     Never looking at him...

Keep walking.   His smile is gentle.

A beat.

Breaking the words off.   He's watching her profile.

Gauging the feeling behind the bitterness.

Is she even listening?     He lets the silence hang.

She stops walking.     Flips her cigarette off into the snow.       Turns

now...

Looks into his face.     And sighs.

EXT. SHORELINE - DAY

Rear ANGLE of Agnis, crouching in the lightly falling snow. At the

edge of the sea. The spot where she once sent her dog to rest.

HEAR footfalls crunching slowly across the rocks. A bulky figure

comes into frame. Crouches down beside her. Close. She stares at

the gray horizon.

No answer.   But she hears him all right.

He hands the folded print-out to her.

She looks briefly at his eyes.        Takes it.   Starts to read.

Agnis keeps reading.

She nods at that.      Folds the paper neatly, as if conveying respect.

Hands it back.

He looks in her eyes.      And decides to say...

The look holds.      She sees the compassion in his eyes.        Knows he's

so on her side.      She clears her throat.

They share a look.      He glances at the sea.        Beautiful spot.

She stares deep and unblinking into his eyes.            She will tell him.

A held moment.

Silence.   And...

And now she smiles.      Something we have rarely seen.

He's not surprised.     And that, in turn, does not really surprise

her.

Strong with that.     Sure.

His smile in return.     Very real.

He sounds pretty sure himself.         Their look ho1ds.

She doesn't.

She nods, one last time.      Sounds like a plan.

INT. GAMMY BIRD - LATE NIGHT

Quoyle alone with his cut-and-paste, making up the front page

layout. Moonlight on fallen snow through the window. Late enough,

quiet enough, to hear...

...the vehicle drive up, the engine turn off. The footfalls to the

door, which swings open. The last person he'd expect to see.

Especially with a bottle. Of Cuervo Gold.

They stare at each other.      Only he smiles.

She shoots him a quizzical look.         We see the edge right off, even

if he doesn't.

Shakes his head with innocent admiration.       She puts the bottle on

his desk.

He hears it now, right enough. The anger, the Cuervo. She stalks

on over to the coffee counter, only a bit wobbly. Plucks up two

styrofoam cups.

Back to his desk. Shrugs her coat off onto the floor. Pullover

and jeans, she looks terrific. Hikes her butt up onto the edge of

his desk.

Her soft throaty laugh. He hasn't seen her this way.        Can't decide

if it's more scary or exciting.

Opens the bottle.   About four fingers are gone.

Pours herself another two.    Thinks before she says...

Pours two fingers for him. Stretches her body to slide the cup

across the desk. The Cuervo sloshes.

She's looking at her cup now.     Not at him.

Takes a swallow.     Closes her eyes.

Opens her eyes.     Straight into his.     Did you?

Sure you do.

Quoyle blinks.     A perfect stunned ox gape.

Drains her cup.

An ice-cold wink.

Pours herself another.     Savors the memory.

Shrugs a drunken, careless shrug.

Yes?

Her eyes are deeper now.      And for a beat, the anger slips away.

Silence.   A real one.

I did.

Stares in his eyes.

So she smiles.     But the bitterness is there in it.

And the world. Ceases to spin.         One man's world, at least.   She

watches that. Assesses it.

Sips at her second drink.        Slides the rest of it down.

Her eyes ask.    Are you?

Shakes her head.     Uh-uh.

Means those words as an opening blow.      Jacks or better.      Here comes

the hole card...

Pure contempt.     And honesty.

Lifts the cap.     Screws it back on the bottle.

And from his prison of shock and shame.      He points to a shelf.      She

is OFF his desk, like a panther...

...SNATCHES the tiny padded box with its treasure.          RAISES it high

to smash it, and...

...stops.    To see the panic.    In his eyes.

It brings tears.     Pooling in hers.

And she sets the treasure down, with the tenderness that decency

requires.

He cannot.

And that.    Is what she came to say.

She crosses the floor. Scoops up her coat.         Walks, just a little

wobbly, to the door. Sighs.

Nods.   Means that.

And leaves. The door closes quietly.      Quoyle looks from it.   To

the eggshells.

And back.

INT. DENNIS' HOUSE - LATER

ANGLE...Dennis and his wife BEETY bundled together asleep, as a

ferocious storm HOWLS around the house.

ANGLE...Quoyle awake on the sofa in Dennis' parlor. Clutching his

blankets around him. Eyes jumping with every SHRIEK of the

marauding wind. Mind racing with thoughts of Wavey. And

eggshells.

ANGLE...Bunny asleep with Dennis' daughter MARTY. The room seems

to vibrate under the violence of the weather's assault. CLOSE on

Bunny now, and...

...her eyes OPEN. A strange intent in them. A knowledge. She

slips from Marty's bed in her thin blue nightdress. Through the

house in the dark, as the wind SCREAMS its warning. Into the par-

lor where her father sleeps, as the wind suddenly INVADES, and...

...SUCKS her straight UP the chimney and out INTO the heart of the

storm. SAILING like a loosened kite out across the black water.

Out and out, as gray light rises, to...

...Quoyle Point, where she is blown FLAT against a granite boulder

just in front of the Green House, which SHIVERS and pleads against

the wind, its steel cables STRAINING, and suddenly from within the

house, lights come ON...

...the WHITE DOG is in a window. No longer snarling and menacing,

but whining pitifully, begging to be saved. And on the second

floor...

...PETAL alone, wild-eyed with terror. She is dressed all in blue,

and her daisy-chain necklace flies about her throat as she POUNDS

against the glass, her eyes staring directly AT her daughter, who

can only scream soundlessly against the gale as the house...

...begins to come LOOSE, the first cable SNAPPING and WHIPPING

about with the fierce destructiveness of unleashed power, then the

NEXT, and ANOTHER, and with Petal still visible, HOWLING in horror,

windows BURSTING everywhere else like flash bulbs, the house...

...slides FREE, along the rocks, toward the cliff, Bunny screeching

as it goes OVER the edge, TUMBLES down toward the sea, and Bunny...

...sits BOLT UPRIGHT in bed, a single GASP as her dad is THERE,

holding her tight. She is soaked with sweat. But her eyes are not

wild. They are filled with the knowing.

He smooths her hair. The wind bellows in rage.       Little Marty

somehow sleeps on, undisturbed, beside her.

EXT. QUOYLE POINT - DAY

They climb from the station wagon into cold, clear sunlight.

Stare in wonder at the naked rock. The snapped, spent, cables.

Only shards of wood and glass leaving a hapless trail toward the

cliff.

Bunny RUNS toward the debris, and through it.     To a tangle of

bushes near the cliff.

He walks to a broken cable. Crouches. His eyes running over the

space. Where his ancestor's home once stood. And then. He

turns...

We see now. Bunny has unearthed a huge wooden crate from its

hiding place. Too engrossed in counting its contents to respond.

As he comes over...

She is counting her treasure trove of NECKLACES. More than any

sound mind could imagine. Yet, in their infinite variety, somehow

wonderful. A testimonial to the power of love.

She looks up.   Sees him staring so fixedly at them.

Oh.   The kid doesn't smile.   She decides whether to ask him...

He looks in her eyes.     His heart breaks behind his smile.

EXT. JACK BUGGIT'S SKIFF - MORNING

Steel gray morning. The sea is more than a little rough, as Jack

lays out his lobster traps. Two other boats, not too close by,

appear and disappear in mist. He is checking the lines, knotting

hefty weights onto the traps to take them down.

Stops.   Halfway to lowering the next trap over the side.

As it nears the water line, Jack's cat SKIPPER TOM suddenly LEAPS

down ONTO the trap. Jack blinks.

Tries to let go of the trap and grab the cat in one motion, but the

cat JUMPS BACK to the boat, Jack STUMBLING out of his way, STEPS in

the coiled line which WHIRRS as the trap goes...

...DOWN, the line STRANGLING Jack's leg and WHIPPING him flailing

OVER the side in one startling heartbeat. Almost comic to watch.

But then. It is very quiet.      Air bubbles appear at the surface.

In a few seconds...

The water is unbroken.     The boat bobs silently in the swells.

INT. ALVIN YARK'S BOAT HOUSE - DAY

Quoyle and Alvin inspect Quoyle's newly-finished boat. It is a

beauty, to be sure, and the old builder watches Quoyle lovingly

running his hand across the smooth gunnel. Alvin doesn't smile.

That's not his style.

Quoyle glances over.     The old boy's eyes are dancing.

Quoyle nods.   Guess not.

But Yoda is just staring at him.     And quietly...

His pupil blinks.   Like a crystal bullet of clarity his brain.

For some reason he could never name.     Tears are pooling in eyes.

Quoyle is nodding, now.     It all seems so right.

A soft knocking at the door.

The bird-like woman enters.     The old man nods toward her.

But she isn't alone. A man enters behind her. It is Dennis

Buggit. And there are tears on his face. He brings a dreadful

silence with him, because the face is an open grave.

A sob escapes from this strong man's throat.    He ignores it.    No

one knows what to say.

EXT. JACK BUGGIT'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The road is jammed with parked cars and trucks and vans and wagons

Folks still streaming toward the brightly-lit house. Ever'body

knows ever'body.

INT. JACK'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Every room is filled with folks who wear their best. There is

eating and chatter and even some pockets of laughter, as we move

through the crowd. As if some have taken hold of a wake's well-

meaning purpose. Others stand dazed, still wearing their pain and

confusion. There are children here, some hold a parent's hand,

some giggle with each other. Snapshot of a community. Struggling

to cope.

Quoyle and Bunny enter, holding hands, looking around.      As they

cross the room...

...two figures step into their path. Two women holding hands,

their bodies close together. Their feeling for each other open for

all to see. One is Agnis. And the other. Isn't Mavis Bangs.

Slightly startled, Quoyle can't help but smile, despite the solemn

occasion. At the proud look on his aunt's face.

Our girl, a course, is Agnis.   Who nearly blushes at the

compliment.

Well, who could argue with that. Dawn leans up, kisses Quoyle on

the cheek. And with surprising softness...

Her great aunt looks at this child. Bends to plant an unexpected

kiss on the top of Bunny's head. The kid squirms, tugs her dad

firmly off, as he sends a parting wave.

Into the parlor now. Quieter here, as the new arrivals thread past

Jack Buggit in his open coffin, resting on black-draped sawhorses.

Dennis and his mom stand by Jack, a hand and a word for each. And

moving into the line...

His words a murmur.     Hers are bolder...

He thinks.   As if it is a worthwhile question.

Nods to himself.     Yes.

He looks down.     They are almost there.

She is thinking. Keeping the thoughts to herself. At the coffin

now, he lifts her up to see. Jack lies motionless, a wax figure of

himself. Serene behind violet eyelids.

Dennis looks over.     His stolid, grim face releases a smile for his

friend.

He sets her down.     Clasps Mrs. Buggit's hand.     And from his

pocket...

An enameled wreath with the initial R, backed by a long, sharp pin

She tears up again, just to see it.

She smiles bravely as she takes it.    Leans up to kiss his cheek.

So they look at each other. Dennis clears his throat, looks away.

And then, Quoyle is leading Bunny off.

Just a statement of fact.    To no one in particular.   Dad squeezes

her hand. Manages...

But she lets go. Scampers to a corner of the room.      To Herry

Prowse. And his mom.

So Quoyle starts toward her, his heart in his throat. And when

Wavey looks up. She is glad to see him. As he reaches her...

She holds up her wrist. Dangling from it, her turquoise bracelet

She wore her best for Jack. Quoyle stands very close. One last

thing from his pocket...

A small box. Wrapped as careful as he could.     She looks to his

eyes, really?

Well, in that case. She takes it into her slender fingers. Undoes

the ribbon, the paper. Lifts the lid to see, resting in tissue...

...eggshells. Crushed almost to powder. Her heart comes straight

to her eyes, even before the whispered...

And across the room, Mrs. Buggit leans with trembling hands to fix

the Lodge pin to Jack's lapel. Shaking as she is, the hand

lurches, the big pin goes PLUNGING, and...

...a rattling COUGH. Rolls across this room. The world falls

silent. Jack's wife grabs her son's arm, and their eyes bug out,

staring into the box.

And LUNGES to help hs gurgling father free his shoulders from the

coffin's wedge. A sudden ROAR, there are SCREAMS, there is even

LAUGHTER and WHISTLING, complete chaos. And in the bedlam, a tug

on Quoyle's coat...

EXT. OMALOOR BAY - DAY

Sunlit day of crystal perfection. The majesty of ice and towering

rock and shimmering water. A scale so majestic, any cynic would be

hard put to deny God's hand. And gliding into FRAME...

...a tiny skiff.     On its maiden run.   We CLOSE to see...

...painted on its side. THE FOUR WOMEN. One woman is rowing just

now, doing all the work. Her son sleeps in the bow. And in the

middle of the little boat...

...father and daughter. Are unpacking the picnic lunch.        There is

a lot of food. This could take awhile.

Yeh.   That.

She keeps unpacking.      Her face quiet and serious.   Her thoughts her

own.

And since he's said her thought aloud.      She tells him...

She's not looking up.      But he knows she's listening.

That gets through.    Both adults can see it.

Eyes resolutely down, she nods.      Remembers.

Her brow furrows.    Doesn't understand that.

On this.   She looks up.     Her dad is smiling from his eyes.

And...

Still holding Bunny's eyes. He beckons to the woman rowing.

C'mere, a second. So Wavey sets down her oars. Slides over.

And Quoyle whispers to his daughter...

He leans his face. To Wavey's mouth. A kiss so tender, even a

child can't turn away. The moment lingers. And when it ends...

Wavey looks at this girl.

Except.   She gathers all the courage it takes to say...

And waits. We can feel her heart pounding in her throat.       Bunny

stares back with eyes no one could read. And then...

A hush over this bay.   A woman stunned and grateful.

Well, that seems true. So, the woman nods.       Her eyes flutter down.

In the silence, she unwraps a sandwich...

Okay, then. She hands that one to Quoyle.       And as she and Bunny

look for another, we PULL...

...UP and AWAY, an AERIAL ANGLE swirling above the shimmering bay.

The boat so far below us. The people tiny specks. They could be

anyone.

Anyone at all.

FADE TO BLACK.   ROLL END CREDITS.

