Laughter in the audience.

Jamal's body dangles motionless from the ceiling. His

head is bowed and he is moaning to himself. The ceiling

fan thumps round slowly. In the corner, Constable

Srinivas mops his brow and lights a cigarette. Hot

work. The door opens and the Inspector of Police walks

in. A rumpled man in his late forties who has seen

pretty much everything. He eyes Jamal, surprised.

Srinivas shrugs.

Constable Srinivas brings a box and a tangle of wires

out of a cupboard and proceeds to put crocodile clips

on Jamal's fingers. The Inspector stares, deep in

thought. Sweat trickles down his face. He wipes it away

with a handkerchief, seems to be talking to himself.

Turns on Jamal.

Jamal just stares.

The Inspector nods absently to Constable Srinivas who

turns a handle. Jamal's body pulsates and jerks. He

screams. His body goes limp again. The Inspector goes

over to Jamal.

Constable Srinivas hadn't thought of that. Grabs

Jamal's arms and starts squeezing them all over until

the Inspector has had enough.

Jamal doesn't answer. The Inspector sighs and sits

down. Looks at his watch, nods at Constable Srinivas

again. Jamal's body jerks with electric current. When

the shudders and screams have subsided, the Inspector

goes over to Jamal's collapsed form. Clicks his fingers

in front of Jamal's face to check for a response.

An excited Young Police Constable sticks his head

around the door.

Constable Srinivas goes over to Jamal and starts to

undo the crocodile clips.

Jamal lifts his head.

He lifts his head, spits blood out of his mouth and

says again, straight into the Inspector's face.

Titles. Slum Dog Millionaire.

Bright sunlight filtered through the ever-present

Mumbai dust. A group of children are playing cricket on

a tarmac cricket ground. They are bare-foot, dressed in

little more than rags, wiry-skinny and fast on their

feet. Salim, a nine-year old, polishes the ball on his

almost non-existent shorts, comes in with surprising

speed and bowls. The batsman hooks it high in the air.

The bowler screams at a boy in the outfield.

The seven-year old Jamal stares up at the ball, jinks

around trying to get into position.

He pays no heed to the rest of the children who are

scattering fast to the edges of the tarmac. The ball

seems suspended in the blue sky. Shouts from the other

children seem very far away. He doesn't notice that

they are screaming for him to get out of the way. Jamal

adjusts his feet for the perfect catch. Then out of

nowhere, a light aircraft almost takes his head off as

it comes in to land on the tarmac runway. Jamal is

knocked to his feet by the down-draft of the plane. The

ball bounces away. Also flattened, Salim gets to his

feet.

Then Salim's face turns to one of alarm.

At the back of a pack of children, carrying a piece of

wood crudely fashioned into a sword, Jamal is running

for his life, pursued by an ancient but surprisingly

nimble Security Guard from the airport who is screaming

abuse and wielding a long stick. The kids dash across a

rubbish dump and disappear down dozens of tiny lanes

that run in between the shacks of the slum.

Jamal and Salim- also with a wooden sword- break off,

head down a separate lane. The Guard pursues them.

The lanes in between the corrugated iron shacks are

three feet wide, with an open drain running down the

middle. Many of the precarious upper floors of the

shacks have been built right over the paths, turning

them into black tunnels. Tunnels shot through with

slivers of light. If you didn't live here, you would be

lost and frightened in minutes.

But these children are natives and with the practice of

many years, Jamal and Salim zig-zag down the warren of

lanes.

They dodge past people cooking in the doorways,

sleeping, washing clothes or in the case of Vinod, a

naked four year-old, pissing into the drain. Salim

shouts a warning.

Without breaking step, they both jump expertly over the

stream of piss. Not so the Security Guard who gets it

all over his trousers, but doesn't stop the pursuit.

The two children charge past a shack filled to the roof

with chickens in cages who all start squawking. They

break out into the sunlight of the `main road' of the

slum lined with shops. It is packed: with people,

stalls, bicycles and cows. All modern India is here,

drinking tea, shouting at each other, selling food,

playing carom, video games. Leaving a trail of shouting

and wreckage behind them, the pair approach a brand new

Mercedes almost blocking the lane. Beside it stands

Javed, an impressive man in a beautiful suit and his

two Minders. Jamal and Salim skid to a stop, put their

hands together in respectful greeting and edge ever so

carefully past the immaculate paintwork of the car.

Still in pursuit, the Security Guard also slides

carefully past the car with deprecating bows and

smiles. On past the chi stall where a crowd has

gathered to watch a hindi film blaring from the tv

rigged up overhead. The irate Security Guard gets

tangled up in a bicycle. Jamal and Salim stop to give

him a taunting, hip-gyrating parody of the dance on the

tv before scooting down another tunnel. They break out

into sunlight again.

Jamal skids to a halt, bumping into Salim who is

already frozen.

The Security Guard arrives and he too skids to a halt

at the sight of Jamal's mother.

The Guard puts his hands together in grudging respect

as Jamal's Mother lifts each skinny kid off the floor

by their t-shirt and marches them down the road.

The two renegades are dumped by Jamal's Mother into

their desks as Mister Nandha hands out ancient school

books.

He crashes the heavy book down on his head. Salim opens

the book. Jamal glances over and turns the book the

right way round for Salim.

Mister Nandha hovers over Jamal's head. He winces in

anticipation.

The book comes down like thunder. Jamal blinks from the

impact and suddenly we are back....

... in the Inspector's office. Jamal watches Srinivas

fiddling with the video recorder, trying to get a

picture. Through the pebbled glass, Jamal sees shapes

moving along the corridor.

The Commissioner of Police is fawning along beside Prem

as they walk. The Young Constable hurries behind.

Out of his jacket pocket comes a couple of tickets.

He turns to the Young Constable.

The Inspector joins them in the corridor.

The Inspector moves his head. Maybe yes, maybe no.

The Commissioner is just able to contain his apoplexy.

Prem holds up a tolerant hand to the Commissioner who

falls silent. Turns his laser-like charm onto the

Inspector.

Forced laughter from the Commissioner.

More laughter. And fear.

Prem walks away down the corridor. Stops and turns,

apparently casual.

Walks off. The Inspector stares after him. Goes back

into his office.

Srinivas has finally got the recorder to work. We get

snatches of filmi dancing- heroines singing on

mountainsides surrounded by implausible numbers of

flags- cricket and finally after some shouting by the

Inspector, Who Wants to Be A Millionaire?.

We close in on the tv screen where Prem is smiling his

crocodile smile and find ourselves....

...as Prem asks the first question.

Laughter from the audience. Jamal looks confused. Prem

waves it away, switches on his serious face.

The lights go down, the portentous music rolls.

Close on Jamal's eyes.

A tiny shack. A garland of dirty plastic flowers

surrounds a torn flyer for one of Amitabh Bacchan's

films.

Salim is sitting on a chair at the end of a rickety

wooden pier, though it is not water, but a sea of

rubbish and sewage that lies below them. There are

dozens of these piers protruding from the slum onto

airport land, each with a toilet shack perched right at

the end. Another man hurries up the pier and hands

Salim a coin.

Turns to the toilet door.

He flashes another placatory smile at Prakash.

A disturbing combination of heaving and snake-charmer

noises come from the toilet shack. Finally Prakash can

stand it no longer.

He snatches the coin back from Salim and hurries off.

Salim bangs on the toilet door.

Salim stops. In the distance, there is the faint sound

of shouting, a crowd coming closer. Then the crowd

bursts through the outer shacks of the slum, pour onto

the rubbish dump and make for the airfield.

Jamal peers through one of the many cracks in the

shack. He sees crowds surging around the pier, charging

towards a landing helicopter. Salim shoves the chair

under the door handle- effectively locking it- and runs

down the pier to join the chase. Jamal pulls up his

shorts.

Rattles the locked door. Pulls a torn flyer from his

pocket advertising an Amitabh movie.

He looks down the toilet hole at the sewage beneath

him, the landing helicopter, the disappearing crowd. A

final rattle of the door. There is only one way out. He

jumps down the hole, sprawling headlong into a year's

worth of human waste, managing to keep the flyer out

the mire. He runs for the helicopter.

Salim is at the back of the crowd, trying to force a

way through, but the adults shove him back. Not so for

Jamal. The down-draft from the helicopter flicks bits

of sewage from his clothes. Disgusted fans curse him

and get out of his way. Suddenly, the red sea parts and

there is nobody between Jamal and Amitabh Bacchan

getting out of the helicopter.

Jamal holds out his flyer. Used to signing autographs,

the movie star barely looks at Jamal. He takes the

flyer and scribbles his autograph on it.

He hands the flyer back to Jamal as his bodyguards

surround him and hustle him into a car. Jamal chases

the flyer across the tarmac, grabs it. Kisses it.

From high up, the rickety tin roof-tops of the slum

seem to stretch to the horizon. There is a distant

shout, a figure waving an arm.

Then another shout and another, a chain of voices

coming closer. People come out of their doorways with

pails and buckets. The shouts come closer until we see

a naked figure entirely encased in bubbles dancing and

singing in the lane. Jamal is the happiest boy in the

slum.

Water comes bubbling through a hose and Jamal's mother

hoses down her ecstatic son.

Not far away, Salim wanders to Mister Chi's stall. He

glances around to make sure everybody is glued to the

hindi film on Mister Chi's tv and surreptitiously slips

Mister Chi the signed flyer. Mister Chi takes a look

and gives Salim a small wad of rupees. He sticks the

money in his pocket, slinks away.

A tear-stained Jamal is furiously trying to batter

Salim, but Salim's extra strength and height means that

he can keep Jamal at bay with one hand, Jamal's

flailing fists punching thin air.

Salim's laughter only makes Jamal cry harder.

Close on the tv screen in the Inspector's office. Prem

ponders Jamal's choice. Presses a button on his

computer.

Applause on screen. The Inspector looks at Jamal. Jamal

shrugs.

Constable Srinivas twists Jamal's arm behind his back,

evincing a squeal of pain from Jamal.

The Inspector stares at Jamal, turns back to the tv

where Prem is asking the next question.

Prem shoots a mock puzzled look out to the audience

eliciting giggles from them.

Laughter from the audience. The studio lights bear down

on Jamal. a drop of sweat trickles down his forehead.

Prem is loving his discomfort.

He gestures expansively at his audience. Oh, they love

him.

Prem whistles. Raises his eyes at the audience.

The lights dim. Portentous music.

The Inspector presses pause. Sighs.

Silence. Constable Srinivas kicks Jamal's chair.

Despite himself, the Inspector laughs. Then leans in.

Jamal just stares back.

Prem shrugs, makes a show of examining his computer.

Suddenly fixes him with his eyes.

Audience laughter.

The Director is shaking his head.

Music, lights, applause.

The lights dim. Prem presses his computer.

Right next to the railway lines is a pond of dirty

water surrounded by shacks in which dozens of women are

washing clothes. Trains flash past only feet away from

them. Down the other end of the pond, nine-year old

Jamal and Salim are splashing noisily with some other

children. Jamal's mother pauses in her scrubbing, wipes

sweat from her forehead and gazes up at the leaden sky.

The woman next to her nods.

Jamal is trying to intercept the ball that Salim and

Krishna are throwing to each other. He's not having

much success. The ball flies overhead again from Salim

to Krishna. Jamal dives for it, misses and goes

underwater. When he comes up for air, he shakes his

head, clearing his ears of water. Then he stops,

listens. Shakes his head again. Definitely something

strange. Thunder? Salim and Krishna are trading

catches, unaware that anything has changed. But Jamal's

mother has heard it too. The faintest sound of

shouting, roaring. The wave of noise is still faint but

getting louder. A frozen moment broken by:

Everybody stares at her. A train speeds through as she

continues to shout, her words lost beneath the

thundering train.

The train goes through, the last carriage flying past

suddenly opening up the sight of a wall of rioting men

wielding clubs, scythes, metal bars. They come

screaming across the railway tracks.

Salim holds out his hand to Krishna who is wading with

difficulty through the water.

The rioters leap the tracks and are upon them.

Salim and Jamal scramble out and retreat into the

lanes. Salim turns to see his Mother felled by a

rioter. She is surrounded by screaming, chanting men

who rain blows down on her. Jamal runs back and drags

Salim down an alley. As they head down the alley, they

get glimpses of burning houses, fleeing women, a three-

year old boy in a doorway, painted entirely in garish

blue. He stares at them. In his hand, he is carrying a

bow and arrow. An eleven-year old girl dressed only in

a pair of pants runs after them.

She has two bleeding red gashes on her back. They turn

a corner and head towards some vans full of police.

Jamal sees Mister Nandha, the school teacher, stops.

Then Mister Nandha starts walking towards him. An oasis

of calm in the chaos. Jamal looks at him with relief.

Mister Nandha smiles, walks towards them.

From behind his back he produces a knife and runs

towards Jamal, screaming.

They flee, but Jamal turns, sees the girl, frozen. He

chases back a few steps, hauls her arm. The spell

broken, and they are off.

They reach the safety of the police vans. But inside

the vans, the police are smoking, laughing, playing

cards. Down the street, a man comes whirling out of a

doorway, his hair on fire. He falls into the middle of

the street and is engulfed by rioters. Unperturbed, the

police continue to chat. Salim and Jamal look on,

horrified. Then one of the police men turns, looks at

them. Is interested. Motions to a colleague. Puts out

his cigarette with purpose.

Salim and Jamal run. The girl follows.

Salim and Jamal stand on a hill overlooking the city.

Black smoke billows from a large area that is clearly

the Juhu slum. Standing a little way off is the girl.

Silence.

Salim shakes his head fiercely, silencing Jamal for a

moment. But only a moment.

Salim shakes his head.

Salim shakes his head again.

Salim turns away and sees the girl. Picks up a rock and

hurls it at her. She dodges, takes a couple of steps

back but makes no real attempt to get away. He finds

another rock and hurls this in her direction too.

Then a flash of lightning and thunder rumbles across

the city. Rain begins to come down.

No answer. Jamal sits down. Salim sits down. At a

distance, the girl sits down. Rain pours down their

faces.

Rain as you've never seen. A pile of huge water pipes

in a sprawling builder's yard. Jamal is in one pipe,

Salim above him in another. They are both soaked,

shivering, but have found some plastic sheet to wrap

themselves in. Outside, thirty feet away, stands the

girl. Staring. Salim hisses angrily at the girl.

The girl might not even have heard.

Salim huddles down in the pipe. After a while, Jamal

follows suit.

A flash of Jamal's mother being clubbed to the ground.

Her scream.

Jamal wakes with a jolt and a scream half-swallowed in

his mouth. He shuts his eyes tight, trying to force the

image out. His breathing slows and he sees the girl

staring at him. Salim, too, is staring into nothing.

The rain is still falling.

The girl goes back to drawing shapes in the mud with

her finger. Jamal climbs out of the pipe. Looks at

Salim for permission or refusal, but he just continues

to stare. So, Jamal walks across to her. She looks up,

wary.

Silence.

The girl shakes her head slightly. Jamal takes the

plastic sheet from around his shoulders. Gives it to

her.

Jamal goes back to his water pipe, climbs in. Watches

her huddled under the sheet. Sighs, motions for her to

join him. She darts across, jumps into the water pipe

and huddles up next to Jamal.

Jamal looks at the Inspector.

Prem stares at him for dramatic effect. Presses his

computer.

The lights dim, the music swells.

Music, applause. Prem switches off his professional

smile. Gets up.

The Floor Manager comes over and gives his head-phones

set to Prem. Prem listens.

Prem glances up at the gallery with contempt.

He makes no attempt to hide the conversation from

Jamal.

He chucks the head-phones back at the Floor Manager.

Glances in the wings. Sees Nita, the make-up woman.

Gets up and goes over.

In the half-light, backstage, Nita dabs his face with

powder.

Prem is about to object. But instead, he laughs.

Scornful but hints of melting.

Nita turns away. The Floor Manager comes over.

Prem slings himself in a chair.

Clicks his fingers at the Floor Manager.

Nita shakes her head at the Floor Manager who by now is

looking very worried.

Prem shrugs and folds his arms. Sees her weaken.

He grins, jumps up, blows her a kiss, and stalks back

on stage.

He sits back down, says almost to himself.

Turns to Jamal.

The warm-up man starts the applause.

Cheering and music. Prem switches on his charm.

Portentous music. The lights dim.

Known to everyone as VT station, this monument to

Victorian railway architecture is a dangerous place to

be at rush hour.

Even before the train has stopped, men are jumping from

the open doors, or vaulting out of the windows or from

the roof of the train to join the tens of thousands of

Mumbaites streaming to and from work. A seventeen-year

old Jamal squeezes himself out of a train and shoves

through the crowds. He checks the time. The digital

numerals flick to five O'clock. Looks around the tide

of humanity.

He produces a cheque and waves it at Jamal.

Laughter from the audience. Prem is momentarily wrong-

footed.

More laughter, this time with Jamal, rather than at

him. Prem gets up and starts rummaging theatrically

through his jacket pockets and trousers.

Nobody was expecting this. Least of all Prem who has to

rearrange his features into one of surprised delight.

He sits down.

Prem tears up the cheque with theatrical slowness.

The digital clocks show five fifteen. Shoving the

descending river of people out of his way, the eighteen

year-old Jamal is forging a path up steps that cross

the platforms. He pushes to the middle of the

footbridge and leans out on the side railings. He scans

the sea of people, desperately. Then he sees her: the

eighteen year-old Latika, heart-stoppingly beautiful,

over the other side of the station. A world away. She

is scanning the crowd, as wired as he is.

But though he is screaming her name, his voice is

swallowed by the noise around him. Then he sees two

thuggish-looking men also fighting a way towards her.

Frightened now, he fights his way down the steps, one

figure against an army of white-robed people.

The commuters have mostly gone. Jamal is pacing the

platform desperately. He stops, stares blankly at the

statue in front of him- a proud, rather pompous figure

in a Victorian frock coat. The plaque reads: Frederick

Stevens.

The Inspector, Srinivas and Jamal are staring at the

video recorder.

Applause and music. The Inspector presses pause. Stares

at Jamal.

Jamal smiles sadly.

Jamal stares down at his feet.

Right in the eyes.

Constable Srinivas snorts. Suddenly, Jamal is out of

his chair and at Srinivas' throat. The combined force

of the Inspector and Srinivas force him roughly back

down. He is again handcuffed to the chair.

Constable Srinivas swears under his breath but bumbles

out.

The lights dim, the music swells and Prem presses his

computer.

Jamal is studying a piece of paper and reading out

numbers from it. There is something not quite right

about Jamal- perhaps the fact that there are two feet

by his ears. Salim is standing on his shoulders and

spraying the numbers on a wall with an aerosol and a

certain lack of confidence.

Latika's head appears from around the corner.

But they don't hear. Then she is running for her life

past the pair of them.

Salim collapses off Jamal's shoulders and all three run

off down an alley past a dozen of the gang's sprayed-on

adverts all reading: "Beanbags- 989 4909661". A fat

Security Guard with a long stick huffs round the

corner. Chases them up an alley. Nowhere to go except

through an imposing gate that clearly leads to a

private house.

They charge across the lawn, down one side of the house

where all the washing is hanging. The Guard gets caught

up in drying sheets, towels. He fights his way through

to see Salim, Latika and Jamal leaping over the wall to

safety. But Jamal turns, jumps back and grabs a girl's

dress from the line.

The Security Guard lands a couple of blows on Jamal's

back as he dodges around him and back across the lawn,

dress in hand. The Security Guard gives up.

Jamal is examing the bruises on his legs.

Latika slips on the dress. Spins. Both of them look up.

Stare. She pulls her hair back, smiles, is transformed

into a beautiful girl.

Blazing sun. Diggers and trucks are shifting mounds of

rubble on a rubbish dump that seems to stretch for

ever. Oblivious to the dust kicked up by the trucks,

Latika is picking up old plastic bags, examining each

one and putting the less worn in a big sack. The dress

is recognisable but dusty and torn. She stoops to dig

another bag out of the dirt, but stops and stares.

Shimmering in the heat, a rickety pick-up truck comes

through the rubbish dump gates. Toots at the Guard who

waves, pulls up in the dump. "Hope Orphanage is written

on the side of the van. A man gets out. Looks around.

Under sheets of plastic propped up on sticks, Jamal and

Salim are sleeping out the hottest part of the day.

Jamal wakes to see a figure standing over him- a

silhouette with a halo of sun behind him. Out of his

bag, the man produces a bottle of Thumbs Up. He uncaps

it with an alluring hiss. It is almost an advert for

thirst-quenching affluence. Almost instinctively, Salim

and Jamal stir.

He hands the bottle to Salim, gets another from his bag

and waves it questioningly at Jamal.

The hills on the edge of Bombay. Greenery and space,

for the first time in the film. The pick-up truck pulls

up outside a building with Jamal, Salim and Latika

sitting on a bench in the back. Maman gets out. Drops

the gate on the back of the pick-up.

Twenty children are eating at long benches in a

ramshackle courtyard. Maman, ushers Jamal, Salim and

Latika in and sits them down at one of the benches. He

waves a hand and a giant man, Punnoose, comes over with

a big bowl of food. The three tear into it. Cleaning

every last morsel of rice from his plate, Jamal looks

up and notices a table peopled entirely with blind or

crippled children. Some of the legless are eating on

the floor next to the table. Jamal leans over to Salim.

Arvind, a boy smaller than either Jamal or Salim

overhears.

Arvind shrugs. Latika licks her plate, glances at Maman

who is looking right at them.

As if telepathic, Maman signals to Punnoose and he

brings a large bowl of rice and dhal over to them.

Latika looks at Jamal and Salim. They burst out

laughing.

Salim, Latika, Jamal and a group of children are

standing in a line singing a doha- ancient lyrics set

to music. Maman is leading the singing, walking up and

down the line listening to each one individually. He

stops at one small boy, Arvind, and listens. Nods his

head, pleased, and continues down the line until he

stops in front of Jamal. Holds up his hand.

Jamal starts singing again. He has the sweetest of

voices. Untrained but pure. Maman smiles, ruffles

Jamal's hair, impressed.

They all join in. Maman continues down the line. He

stops at Salim whose octave-slipping singing is lusty

and appallingly out of tune. Maman winces and moves on.

Standing next to Salim, Latika giggles. Immediately,

Salim is on her. Before a fight breaks out, Punnoose

pulls Salim off Latika and hurls him across the room.

Salim gets up and charges at Punnoose. For a second,

Punnoose is back-footed, but then pins Salim's arms to

his side. Maman laughs. Approaches Salim.

A group of children are sitting in the jumble of

concrete under a motorway flyover. Cars surround them,

bumper to bumper. Latika and Jamal are playing an

improvised hopscotch on concrete slabs. They are

giggling, bumping into each other, tickling, laughing.

Salim and Punnoose are sitting together, smoking. Salim

is staring hard at Jamal and Latika until Punnoose

grunts, a sign for Salim to clap his hands.

The children get to their feet. Latika sighs, puts a

patch over her eye and grabs a pair of crutches.

Suddenly, the lame beggar. Salim goes over to one of

the girls, who is carrying a sleeping baby. Puts out

his hand.

The girl shakes her head. Salim grabs her by the hair

in one hand and takes the baby with the other. He

shoves her to the ground. The other children stare.

He challenges Jamal.

He laughs and walks over to Latika.

Latika turns away and begins to walk towards the cars.

He holds the baby up. Latika grabs the baby with a cry

just as Salim releases it from his hands. Salim pinches

the baby.

Latika snatches it away. Salim laughs, goes back to

sitting with Punnoose. The children scatter to the cars

trapped at the lights, tapping plaintively on the

windows and making the universal begging gesture.

Surrounded by beer bottles, Punnoose is slumped asleep

by the kitchen door. Latika edges past, avoids the cook

sleeping under the table and goes to a shelf laden with

vegetables. She pulls down a bunch of chillies still on

the vine, strips a few off and tip-toes out with them.

Sleeping children, three or four to a mattress on the

floor. Latika tip-toes around the mattresses. She

pauses over one in particular where we see Salim,

asleep. She carefully pulls up the sheet, delves

underneath. Pleasant dreams cross Salim's sleeping face

for a second. Then suddenly, he is bolt upright and

screaming. He charges around the room clutching his

genitals in agony.

He sprints out of the room, wailing.

The lights are on and two dozen children are screaming

with laughter as Salim stands under the make-shift

shower directing the water down his pants to his

burning genitals, his face a picture of agony. Latika

wipes crushed chillies from her hands.

She smiles and walks past Jamal with a shrug. Then

Punnoose comes stalking in and the children scatter

away.

In a shack, Arvind is singing one of Surdas' bhajans in

front of Maman and an old man who by his ragged

appearance must be a villager. Punnoose and Salim sit

behind Arvind.

Maman nods to Punnoose. Before Arvind can turn round,

Punnoose has covered his mouth with a cloth and after

the briefest of struggles, Arvind's body goes limp. The

villager puts an old tin box on the table. Taking the

lid from the tin, he brings out a cloth and unwraps it.

Inside is a spoon. He checks the edge with his thumb.

Sharp. Douses it with a clear liquid from a bottle and

passes it over a candle flame. The spoon whooshes with

a high flame for a moment. The villager wipes it with

the cloth nods to Punnoose.

Utterly bemused, Salim nevertheless helps Punnoose lay

Arvind on the table. The villager takes hold of

Arvind's eyelid and pulls it open. He brings the spoon

close. Suddenly, Salim is being sick in the corner of

the shack. By the time he has turned back, the villager

is wiping the spoon on a blood-soaked rag.

Punnoose picks up Arvind and carries him out.

A frozen moment.

Maman gets out of his chair. Approaches Salim.

Maman holds Salim's head in his hands.

Maman nods.

Salim is frozen for another few seconds, then turns and

walks out of the door. Punnoose appears at the door.

Maman nods to him and he slips off after Salim.

All the children are asleep apart from Jamal who is

crouched underneath a couple of wash-basins.

He is talking through a plate-sized hole in the

crumbling masonry. Latika's eyes can be seen.

Salim appears at the door. Nods his head at Jamal.

Latika's hand comes through the gap. Jamal takes it for

a moment. Salim hisses at Jamal. He lets go of the hand

and heads out.

Salim and Jamal walk along the path, Jamal humming

happily. Salim checks behind him, sees Punnoose

following.

Jamal is suddenly alert. Slows

Salim nods. Big smile. Puts a hand on Jamal's shoulder.

Salim guides Jamal into the shack where Maman and the

Villager are waiting. Maman smiles. Punnoose slips in

behind Salim.

Jamal opens his mouth, then closes it again. Holds out

his hand.

Maman laughs.

He throws some notes at him.

Outside, a giggle. Latika is peering through a gap in

the wall.

Salim barges Jamal out of the way. Jamal      stumbles back

as Salim reaches his hand out to Latika,      so he doesn't

see Latika's hand grasp Salim's, nor see      their eyes

lock onto each other, nor see Salim very      deliberately

let go of her hand. Latika stumbles.

Jamal scrambles to the rail. The train gains more

speed. Jamal climbs on to the top rung, makes to jump,

but Salim flings him backward. Jamal tries to scramble

to his feet again, but Salim restrains him.

The train is speeding along. Jamal breaks free and

stares back at Latika.

Latika stumbles again and stops running. They watch as

Punnoose catches up with her and stops running. He

smashes Latika to the ground.

The lights dim, the music swells. Prem presses a button

on his computer: looks him straight in the eyes for an

age.

Applause, music, lights.

The Inspector is eying Jamal, weighing it all up.

Salim and Jamal are sitting on top of the train. Jamal

is staring blankly down the track.

Salim puts an arm around Jamal's shoulder. Jamal wipes

the tears from his eyes, shakes his head furiously.

Salim gets up. Holds out his hand.

The ancient train is huffing slowly up an incline. A

middle class Indian couple with their three children

are sitting at a table, their breakfast spread before

them. Into this domestic scene, unseen by them comes

Jamal. Upside down and still outside the train, he is

clearly being dangled by his ankles from the train

roof. He gives a few, silent directional signs to Salim

who manoeuvres him across, dips his hand into the open

window, snatches a chapatti and signals franticly to be

hoisted up. The family continue to eat, unperturbed.

Then Jamal appears again. This time one of the children

spots him. Despite Jamal giving her a friendly wave,

she yelps. The father of the group grabs Jamal's hand

which has just snatched a samosa. There is a tussle,

Salim holding onto Jamal's legs, the father holding

onto Jamal's arms and Jamal in the middle, shouting.

Salim is losing the battle and his footing. He stumbles

and the pair of them fall from the train, rolling and

tumbling down an embankment in slow-motion.

Interspersed with the seemingly endless tumble are

images of Jamal and Salim on top of different trains-

- huddled together against the freezing rain...

- surfing the wind at the front of the train...

- admiring the distant Himalaya....

The final tumble as they crash onto flat ground.

Groggily, Jamal sits up and groans. Somehow in the

tumble, he has been transformed into a twelve year-old.

And Salim a strong fourteen year-old. Through the haze

of pain and dust, Jamal sees something glinting in the

distance- something impossibly beautiful.

Jamal clears his head. Sees Salim picking himself up

from the ground. But the apparition is still there.

They stare at the apparition. The unmistakable outline

of the Taj Mahal rises from the horizon, pink in the

morning sun. Nothing could be more beautiful.

Jamal and Salim wander under the great dome of the Taj

Mahal. Two tiny slum kids dwarfed by this massive

monument to love. It is a moment of genuine wonderment

for them. Then a tour guide bustles nearby, tourists

flowing behind him.

Jamal follows the Guide and his entourage into the

mausoleum. Salim meanwhile is studying the line of

shoes. Tries a smart pair of women's court shoes,

before slipping a foot into a nice, white sneaker. A

smile crosses his face. His other foot quickly follows

and he saunters away, all mock-innocence.

Jamal comes out of the mausoleum into the bright

sunlight and looks around for Salim. No sign of him.

Suddenly, a German couple approach.

Jamal notices that he is standing next to a sign

advertising guided tours of the Taj.

Peter waves a couple of thousand rupee notes at Jamal.

His eyes widen.

Jamal stalks off. The Germans follow. Jamal stops

before the monument. Points a confident arm at it.

A terrible pause as Peter and Ada stare at him. Clearly

more is expected. He moves off at a pace.

He waves confidently in the direction of the fountains.

Jamal moves on. Ada and Peter exchange a glance.

Montage of Jamal authoritatively showing tourists

around the Taj Mahal.

Jamal shows the tourist a battered postcard of Princess

Diana, staring doe-eyed into the distance with the Taj

behind. The tourist sits. Jamal adjusts her legs so

that they match the postcard. Takes the photo....

...and abandons the woman with a polite bow, charging

for safety as two Police Officers race towards him.

Jamal stands a Tourist on a wall and positions his

hands to create the optical illusion that he is

dangling the Taj from his fingers. Takes a photo for

the Tourist. Behind the Tourist, Salim and a boy called

Shankar pick up the Tourist's shoes and saunter

casually across the grass.

By the side of a busy market street Salim stands next

to a row of stolen shoes. Sneakers, court shoes,

sandals, high heels...he is busy bartering with a man

over a pair whilst Jamal tries to shout up business.

Hectares of drying clothes by the side of the river.

Spectacular squares of red, saffron, white. Not far

away from the dhobi ghat, there is a makeshift slum-

camp where Salim and a gang of children are sitting,

smoking. Jamal joins them, hands over a wad of rupees

to Salim. Salim counts the cash, hands half to Shankar

and slaps Jamal so hard on the back that he nearly

falls over.

Jamal gets out of a new Mercedes driven by an Indian

Man. A middle-aged American couple also get out. Jamal

points them down a lane which opens out on India's

largest dhobi where hundreds of women are beating

clothes on stone slabs.

He gets out his video camera and wanders towards the

dhobi ghat. Behind them a motor rickshaw pulls up.

Salim, Shankar and a couple of the street kids from the

Taj leap out. Within seconds, the Mercedes is up on

bricks and the wheels are being removed. Salim takes a

hacksaw to the Mercedes badge on the bonnet, whilst

urging the others on.

The crowds in the lane barely notice as the car is

stripped of all its parts.

A shout from the top of the lane and the boys scatter,

bouncing the four wheels at speed down the lane. Jamal,

the Indian driver and the two Americans return. They

stop in front of the denuded car.

Suddenly the Indian driver is slapping Jamal

ferociously around the head with one of his shoes.

But the beating continues, the driver kicking Jamal

down onto the floor. The two Americans stare, uncertain

what to do.

Finally Clark intervenes, pulling the driver off Jamal.

Jamal sits up. He is bleeding from his nose and mouth.

Adele pulls out his wallet and rummages for dollars.

A battered Jamal limps along the river bank towards the

Taj. He stops, bathes his swollen face in the river.

Then looks up. Strange lights appear to emanate from

the base of the monument. And then strange sounds.

Jamal climbs   a crumbling   wall and is confronted with an

opera taking   place right   under the dome. Gluck's Orfeo

ed Euridice.   Hundreds of   India's smartest professionals

are watching   from banked   seating on a scaffolding

frame.

Jamal and a couple of street kids slip under the

scaffolding supporting the banked seats. The street

kids are trying to reach the hand-bags of the women

above them.

Jamal reaches up and easily lifts a wallet from a man's

trouser pocket. On stage, the actors start singing.

Jamal seems to have forgotten the wallet and stares,

mesmerised, at the stage.

Jamal starts, makes to run, but the woman who spoke

holds out a cigarette. A Canadian back-packer is

sitting, staring at the singers.

She hands him a cigarette. He puts the wallet back. She

smiles at him and they both turn to the stage.

Jamal watches as Orpheus sings one of the most

beautiful pieces of music a human is likely to hear.

Tears are running down Jamal's cheeks.

Salim, Shankar, Jamal and the Taj Gang are gathered

around a campfire. All of them wear extraordinary foot-

wear of one form or another, from elaborate high heels

to walking boots five sizes too large. A home-made

hooka pipe is being passed around the fire. The eyes of

the children have long since stopped focussing. Salim

is sporting a Mercedes Benz badge on a chain around his

neck. Behind him, Jamal appears, his face swollen. He

takes off his fake Guide's Badge and throws it in the

fire.

Salim turns to Shankar with sudden understanding.

He rips out a wad of dollar bills from his pocket.

He walks off.

He gets up, kicks the fire in rage and stomps after

Jamal.

Prem leans back in his chair.

Prem presses his computer. The lights dim again, the

music comes up.

Silence from Jamal.

A long pause.

Laughter from the audience.

A gasp from the audience. Prem is caught off-guard.

He gives this one to the audience who titter on cue.

Jamal looks confused.

He presses the computer, pretends to ruminate for a

while with his finger pressed to his lips.

Prem leans over and tears up the cheque. There is a

sigh of disappointment from the audience, a look of

confusion on Jamal's face.

Wild applause from the audience. Jamal allows himself a

genuine smile.

The Inspector pulls out a note from his wallet. Glances

at it.

He waves the note at him.

The Inspector kicks his chair.

The Inspector stares hard at Jamal.

Then, Constable Srinivas stomps back into the office,

sweat pouring from him.

Has to consult his notebook.

From a thousand feet in the sky, looking down on the

limitless megatropolis of Mumbai. Half-built sky-

scrapers, slums, factories, roads, trains.

We descend, down until the lines of ants become people.

Descending even further, we pick out a construction

site and then Jamal....

..who is staring through a wire fence at the

construction site.

He turns away, then something catches his eye.

Underneath all the scraps of flyers and posters on a

broken wall is a corner of something that Jamal

recognises. He tears back a poster. Underneath, faded

but recognisable is one of their beanbag graffiti

advertisements.

Jamal asks a group of stall-holders on the slum main

street. They shrug, aren't interested. The camera pulls

up and up until Jamal is nothing but a dot wandering

the maze of lanes, railways and highways, one among

endless millions of people.

Jamal wanders up to the rickshaw drivers parked outside

the hotel. He stops and asks a question. The drivers

shake their heads. Jamal continues up the steps towards

a door, exhausted face and grubby clothes walking

straight towards camera. He goes through the door and

immediately....

....is, without breaking step in a slightly grubby

white uniform. He walks across the echoing, marble

floor of a struggling four-star hotel, goes through

double doors....

...into a corridor that is devoid of carpet, paint-

anything except a phone on the bare wall and a stool.

The phone is ringing. Jamal sits on the stool and

answers the phone.

He hangs up and goes through another set of doors...

...to a cramped kitchen with definite hygiene problems.

The cooks are playing carom on the table while under it

Salim is dozing.

Dozily, Salim gets up and takes a look behind one of

the fridges. He chases out a chicken with a desultory

kick and sorts through some empty mineral water bottles

until he finds a Bisleri bottle. Salim fills the bottle

of mineral water from the tap and begins delicately re-

sealing the tamper-proof lid with super-glue. Jamal

collects cutlery and starts laying out a tray.

Jamal is dodging the traffic at a busy junction. He

moves around the beggars who are working the cars. Then

he hears singing. He looks around, suddenly panicked.

It is a siren song drawing him across the road, not

even noticing that he is narrowly run down by a couple

of cars, to a traffic island underneath a flyover. He

turns a corner and there is the singer, leaning up

against one of the struts of the flyover. Arvind. Older

now, just like Jamal, a fourteen year-old boy. But eye-

less. Jamal freezes. He approaches Arvind and waits

until he has finished singing. Despite his eyeless

sockets, Arvind appears to know somebody is there. He

turns and bows low, putting his hands together.

Jamal gets a couple of notes out of his pocket and puts

them into Arvind's outstretched hand. He feels the

notes with his fingers.

Arvind puts his hands together and bows deep again.

Then, Jamal takes his shoe off and gets out a hundred

dollar bill.

Jamal crouches down and puts the bill into Arvind's

hand. His fingers feel it. He sniffs it.

He stops. Suspects.

A long pause. Arvind keeps hold of Jamal's arm.

Arvind shakes his head angrily.

Jamal heads off through the traffic. Arvind shouts

after him.

Dark, crowded streets. Gangs of women stand outside the

doorways or lean out of upstairs windows. They are

garishly-dressed prostitutes varying in age from 13 to

60. Men wander past, eying the possibilities,

exchanging lewd comments with them. Among the hordes on

the pavement are Jamal and Salim. They pass doorway

after doorway of narrow rooms where prostitutes wait

for customers. Jamal and Salim stop at each group of

women, Salim taking the lead, clearly asking them

something, as the women either shrug or offer them

something lewd- judging by the laughter that follows.

But one woman in a narrow doorway points down the

street. Jamal has to drag a reluctant Salim away from

the group.

They go into one of the tiny houses. Loud Filmi music

comes from upstairs. They are confronted by a woman in

her fifties watching tv. She is less than interested.

She indicates curtained cubicles behind him.

The Woman looks at him properly for the first time.

Then, Jamal pulls out some rupee notes.

She takes the money, counts it.

