As the girl works..her dress changing as the days change

while different visitors listen hard to her mother across the

hall.

The mother stops talking in mid-sentence, realizing she has

just solved something and makes a note.

The child is ardent..clutching at her heart...kissing her

mother.. Holding her mother's face, talking directly into her

eyes. The mother, enormously pleased, is nonetheless thrown

by the extremes of it.

Her mother selling keepsakes..counting money..Friends and

relatives bringing food, clothing - toys.

ON MOTHER..

We see her totally intimidating a priest.

The mother and daughter seating themselves. The mother is

enormously nervous with the prospect of flight. She sits,

the daughter ignores an empty seat and goes on her lap,

mother hugging daughter, daughter hugging the hug.

As they taxi.

The mother says, "solo espanol"---"only Spanish." The

daughter starts to chatter excitedly about the imminent

flight. Her mother quiets her firmly in order to pray for

their safety.. As the plane continues to taxi...We HEAR the

mother's prayer in Spanish. She then nudges her

daughter..who, with this gentlest of prods, repeats the same

prayer.

The plane crossing the Rio Grande.

Use this image if ever you want to strike a coin depicting

the moment of no return. The child aglow with happy

anticipation..the adult brave and enormously anxious.

OTHER ANGLE.

The pilot taken with the mother's looks.

He glances over..this is not lechery, it is art

appreciation..an errant but decent man awed by the creature

he is drawn to..

ON MOTHER..

As she feels him looking at her and turns. With some

affection and regret, she shakes her head, "no."

THE PILOT.

As he mouths the word "ouch."

Plane landing on a dirt and grass strip...

Standing on the tarmac..Latin flavored music suddenly gives

way to a Texas country harmonica riff..The child tries to

comfort her apprehensive mother with the one wondrous fact

she finds so thrilling.

The mother hurries her along in the direction of distant

lights.

The two of them waiting, small figures.

She raises her fingers like pistols. Shoots, blows in them

and reholsters them.

Bus traveling the highway. The child looks out sadly.

As they disembark...the mother studying a slip of

paper...fearing she has made the mistake of a lifetime. The

child fascinated by all.

ON THE TWO FEMALES.

The mother sees something. Joy returns.

HER POV.

A street full of stores with SIGNS IN SPANISH..She begins

walking the street asking passers-by for directions in

Spanish and is answered..her step lightens..she beams with

relief. So far so very, very good.

An iron gate in front..small courtyard ringed by a second

floor horseshoe of apartments.

As the mother enters.

Cristina taking a newspaper from her book bag and seriously

pondering - then circling grocery coupons.

ANGLE ON KITCHEN AREA.

Cristina taking a snack from the refrigerator..smiling at the

note her mother left...lighting a burner and melting cheese

on a tortilla.

The CAMERA MOVES QUICKLY from the child to:

The courtyard is lit with colored lights and candles..a

wedding reception is in progress -

EXTREME CLOSE UP - THE BRIDE.

Gorgeous round and full cheeks stretched into a deep,

explosive smile.

BACK TO SCENE... music plays and we focus on Cristina, now

nearing 12 years of age..dancing with her mother and some

other smaller children.. The mother eyes the muscular back of

a Great Looking Man...who turns, and quickly oozes quality

sex appeal. She is turned on..They talk in Spanish...him

saying something hushed like, "I have been afraid to talk to

you. I need oxygen when I look at you." She indicates the six

children she is dancing with and offers to include him in

some ring around the rosey dance...He indicates the magic of

just the two of them...She quickly leads her little flock

away..

OTHER ANGLE..

A reed-thin FOURTEEN YEAR OLD BOY is staring at them...at

first the mother thinks this is adorable...the child eyeing

her as if he were a man..she indicates he should join the

rest of the children for a dance..

MOVING WITH THE BOY..

As he steps forward and it becomes clear it is Cristina he is

interested in... Before the mom can do anything about it, he

asks Cristina to dance and she readily accepts.

ON CRISTINA..

Satellite virginities falling with alarming speed..the first

time held by a male, the first time held close, the first

sexy (albeit touchingly awkward) gaze from half-closed male

eyes which utterly confuses Cristina. He begins to grind his

hips into his dancing partner.

ON HER MOTHER.

Not confused. It is exactly as if she sees her daughter about

to be run down by a car..only this time the thing to do is

scare the car.

She runs toward the boy -- he sees the force of nature coming

his way and makes a break but she gets him and actually lifts

him and throws him to the sidelines. Then pats him on the

head maternally and goes back to Cristina.

CRISTINA.

Somewhat proud of her mom as the boy leaves the scene.

The mother and her aunt, MONICA, take their seats..the bus is

filled with domestics..the mother, nervous, looks over to see

and greet... THE BRIDE from last night's wedding.

MUSIC CHANGE..as they disembark and start walking, joining

the busload of domestics into the canyon and up the

hill....they walk past a perfect country club fairway. Grand

trees from either side meet each other high over the road.

ON OUR GAL..AS THEY WALK

She sees the stuff...the dream that makes you migrate. She is

not awed..she is jazzed. To her aunt she does the Latin

version of OH.....MY...GOD!!!!!!!!...At regular intervals in

the background, one black SUV after another has a mother

taking kids home from school.

Monica presses the security intercom. The gate swings open.

In the foreground an expanse of turned up dirt...and huge

rolls of sod ready to be laid down. A catering truck stands

in the driveway.

They enter..lots of glass French doors STAND OPEN to lawn,

pool and pool house. They look off.

Deborah grabs at paper towels, gets an ice pack from the

freezer and then grabs some cash from a bowl in the

kitchen..She has, moment to moment, the enormous desire to

feel loved that only the seriously hard to love can

experience.

She pockets the cash.

Moments later. As the group arrives at the outdoor table.

Evelyn makes half-hearted incomplete gestures of shaking

hands, nodding, indicating a seat...each simple act a test

which she fails -- every gesture a bit too late and then

some..simply too much for her to manage with the drinks under

her belt. In the background workers roll out sod, the yard

becoming more beautiful even as we look.

On our gal..as she, not understanding the word, smiles and

nods.

Our gal thrown. Not knowing how now to react.

Flor is dumbstruck by the challenge of this pop quiz but not

without some native wit and style to maneuver around it.

Deborah falls for it until Flor laughs..others join...Deborah

now a big smile, snort of a laugh, putting her hand to her

face and shaking her head.

OTHER ANGLE..

As Monica uses Deborah's reaction time to, in mid-laugh,

flash four fingers to Flor..

ON EVELYN.

Catching the gesture and secretly indicating to Monica they

should go for six.

Flor shoots her a look of fear...a tense beat.

Deborah kisses her..sort of on the mouth. In the midst of

Flor's delight she is thrown by Deborah's kiss...it is the

first of many borders to be violated.

As Flor and Monica exit and can finally show their full joy.

JOHN CLASKY driving a smallish SUV. He is an upbeat,

talented, successful man with an ego as balanced as a high-

end watch; who loves his wife, kids and job. In other words,

watch out, John.

As John pulls into the driveway next to a catering truck and

exits his SUV carrying a large wrapped tray..

As John moves quickly through the downstairs, he puts the

tray on a counter where food servers are working.

As he moves on, we see in the background the workers unwrap

and react to a fantastic concoction. A caterer (who we may

notice looks at him like royalty) falls in beside him and

whispers to him.

JOHN'S POV - DEBORAH AND TWO FEMALE CATERERS.

Deborah is wearing a party dress. They are rolling out the

last huge cylinder of sod, completing the now beautifully

manicured backyard. It is hard manual labor involving

physical strength. The female caterers are complaining that

it's too heavy but Deborah is undeterred.

She falls over the roll..getting filthy..but it gives and

they gain momentum...one of the catering women falling down,

one losing pace.. Deborah,however, gains the upper hand. Yet,

even while succeeding, she remonstrates herself.

And now she wins.. the cylinder of grass rolls all the way

out and she jumps on the seam in victory. She is dirty,

spent and triumphant..the components for a solid sexual

experience..and, in truth, as the exhausted caterers half-

heartedly applaud the bizarre victory, she has gotten off.

She looks with mother's pride at the lawn. Then sees John.

As she looks at her handiwork - John looks at her..A

grin..half laugh.. He loves the dame.

She turns to leave.

Standing in a nicely decorated middle class restaurant,

Cristina, totally bilingual, speaks to the American hostess

with a pronounced and charming accent as her mother, standing

beside her, bounces with energy and joy.

Flor says something to her in Spanish..the daughter waves it

off and when the mother persists, she translates.

Before her daughter can translate.

The hostess laughs..They are seated at the two ends of a

banquette and each automatically picks up her place setting

and "scootches" closely together. Cristina picks up a menu

and points to the prices.

Flor scoffs -- says she's making six hundred dollars a

week..then looks at the prices and does a take. The hostess

returns --- Cristina points to the menu.

Flor, encouraging her daughter's spirit of adventure, places

her hand over the prices in the menu.

The daughter translates...the hostess points out the early

30's, well dressed, quite nice looking businessmen. Flor

addresses the men who are several tables away. Cristina

moves uncomfortably but responds to her mother's nudge to

translate.

Then hostess, Flor and finally Cristina laugh. Cristina

relishes getting back to ordering from the menu...in a moment

that is a bit noteworthy..

Flor smiling..enjoying the canyon..as she walks the mile plus

from the bus stop to work..one of a straggly line of

domestics. Deborah jogs into view.

Deborah runs past..She is clearly upset..She is also more

than a stay-in-shape jogger. She is an athletic woman fueled

by an ever flickering pilot light of anxiety. This makes her

seriously quick. She is highly aware of passing

everybody..She needs to pass everybody..Her voice trails

behind her as she announces to all as she approaches.."left,

please," "left," "left."

John enters his son's room..GEORGIE, age 9.

Bernice is making French Toast, doing something novel with

the filling and the last cooking process. Some great idea

which will have us making a mental note to try it at home.

John opens Georgie's door again.

Georgie gets up..

John pauses..aware his answer will have repercussions but

integrity wins.

As Flor enters from outside.

The approval rug pulled out from under her, Bernice looks at

her mother. But Deborah is unaware of having hurt her

daughter because her attention has been diverted so that

Deborah AND THE CAMERA LOSE FOCUS ON BERNICE as the teenager,

distraught, moves from the room.

Chum is nudging Flor with the ball and Flor was about to

accommodate him by taking it before Deborah's warning shout

stopped her in mid-sentence.

ON Flor's stunned reaction to the outburst.

Then using her hands to demonstrate.

CLOSE UP ON Chum going nuts with Deborah's hand passing in

front of his face ignoring how urgently he offers the ball.

Deborah directs her to the most complicated cappuccino

machine Italian overpriced artists ever devised.

Deb in the shower...you have never seen so many shampoos,

conditioners and bath balms...never seen so huge a

sponge..such fluffy towels.

Skylight over the shower allows a beam of God's warmth. There

is a fireplace in the bathroom. The only significance of

this being that these people have a fireplace in their

bathroom. The woman who made it all happen is putting in a

contact lens..She is upset. We see that she has one blue eye

and one brown.

Deborah turns from the sink revealing one brown eye and one

blue. She blinks, realizes one lens is not in and turns back

to the sink.

John exits into the..

As John awaits his wife...a beat and she enters with two blue

eyes. Even though she is attempting reason and self-control

her voice is filled with tension and goes from loud to

borderline yelling.

As Flor works methodically - orienting herself..she is able

to hear their totally foreign words and though their volume

registers on her a bit - basically she remains blithe.

Loading a dishwasher, memorizing where everything is..

BACK TO SCENE:

She looks at him..with a finger motion he directs her gaze to

his eyes..

CLOSE on JOHN'S EYES.

Open, smiling, trusting. Trying to get a laugh out of her.

CLOSE ON DEBORAH'S EYES.

Studying, questioning, probing, doubting, exhausted...

John enters - not seeing Flor - goes to the Sparkletts water

container and fills a cup...He is shaken..

Boy meets girl.

He turns with a start to see Flor smiling at him. Gorgeous

squared. His first word is inadvertent.

The sound of feet on the stairs..Deborah and Georgie enter.

Deborah reacts, grabs some coffee and pushes Georgie along.

Flor is trying to figure out what's expected of her then

Deborah gestures impatiently for her to fall into step and

come with her.

The biggest, baddest, BLACKEST SUV..there is some subtle

custom work so the vehicle impacts us in ways we cannot quite

fathom. Deborah is wiping away a tear as she gets in and

shares a woman to woman moment with Flor.

She sniffles. Flor nods uncertainly. A small voice from the

back seat..Georgie..

As she puts the car in gear...Georgie sings insanely well.

But he's just two lines into an old blues standard:

She presses a button on her dash and a glass partition comes

up between front and back seat thereby cutting him off in mid-

song. Flor is utterly baffled by the notion of putting a

divider between parent and child. But Deborah is calling for

her to pay attention to the car's navigation screen.. a

Spanish voice says, "route guidance system starting."

The MALE SPANISH VOICE talks about imminent left turns. Flor

is thrown by the amount of oddness..All the while Georgie is

singing his little heart out in the back seat. Flor,amused by

the boy, suppresses a smile...maybe the first time in her

life she's had to suppress joy. But Deborah never misses

anything.

John cooking...the theory that nobody's sexier than when they

are seen doing what they do best applies here.. In the

BACKGROUND John's number two, PETER, the Sous Chef, being

bossy and anal as he organizes his cooking and GWEN, who

spends most nights trying not to show her enormous affection

for John. At the moment, John's work is a strange mixture of

art and cloddishness.....the hands blur with expertise...but

he keeps dropping items.....each time a Latin kitchen worker,

ALEX, 20, dives on the spillage..At one point they bump.

Two people head for John almost simultaneously. PEG, an arty

looking woman in her late 50's..wild, scraggly gray hair,

enters lugging an ice chest and the maitre d'.

The Maitre D' enters.

He is talking quickly..almost to himself.

He tastes a sliver of the food dish he is preparing.

Evelyn, having a glass of white wine and a sandwich, is

talking to Bernice in the kitchen also including Flor though

she is only catching a word here or there..

Flor looks concerned over Evelyn's displeasure with herself,

a fact picked up by the older woman...It is actually a small

Deborah leads the way out...but Flor stops before following

her out to give Evelyn a gesture of support and appreciation.

John is in Bernie's room - helping her with her homework.

They lay at right angles to each other..He is testing her.

Deborah enters followed by Flor. They are carrying several

boxes of clothes...

Bernie gasps..As she looks at a sweater..

Bernice tries on the sweater over her T-shirt..and mirth

ends..The sweater is tight...Bernice picks up a blouse and

then skirt and checks the size.

ON FLOR AND JOHN.

As they are COUPLED BY THE CAMERA ANGLE as each catches on

and is dumbfounded.

ON BERNICE..

Whose style, wit and grace should not have to be used to

deflect such trauma. But so be it, as, though mightily stung:

She exits to her bathroom.

Flor one step behind John and Deborah who are moving quickly

down the stairs...John pissed..Deborah feeling the futility

of anyone understanding her point even as she makes it.

Flor tries to slide by..Something surreptitious in her

behavior..Deborah suddenly turns to Flor.

She holds out her hand in a "we women understand" gesture.

Flor does not waver..just meets her eyes.

And that fast they are gone.

As John gets in his seat..then sees Flor approaching the door

and hops out to open her door...apologizing as he goes.

As he moves back to his side of the vehicle.

Flor hears this from inside and nods in agreement.

As they drive down the canyon. He is wildly frustrated. Even

if Flor were not there, he would be talking to himself

anyway, in the manner of bag ladies and all of us.

Flor doesn't understand his words...yet fully agrees. But

then John takes rein of his emotions.

As Flor is dropped off...the goodbye awkward.

While waiting for the bus, Flor suddenly turns and runs a few

yards...and then back..and waves off the looks from her

colleagues - many of whom are overweight..many of them

adorable. All puzzled for the moment as they watch Flor

unsuccessfully try to shake off her day.

As Flor enters -- kisses her daughter..distraught and

distracted. She walks immediately to the refrigerator and

takes out a chocolate cake and a bottle of milk...she cuts a

huge slice of cake and puts it in front of her startled

daughter..in Spanish riding her on being too thin..the

daughter gestures at her mother's own slim figure.

Flor asks her daughter how to say something in English.

Flor asks again in Spanish...trying to find a precise

phrase.. The nuance important to her.

Flor knows the word "please"..it's not what she wants...what

she wants is a way to say, "try it on" in a manner which is

not a request..or order, but is, rather, friendly and caring.

Her daughter works on the problem.

She's got it.

Flor is the only one waiting. An empty bus stops and she gets

on.

As we see Deborah cross Sunset Blvd., overtake and pass two

UCLA men running at a good clip as Flor's bus stops.

CLOSE ON FLOR..

As she strides purposefully up the street.

The house asleep. Flor walks carefully up the steps.

Bernie asleep on the bed...Kleenex abounds...the solid sleep

earned by a few hours of sobbing. She looks touchingly pretty

and decidedly round. Flor looks for, finds and carries out

the new clothes Deborah had given her daughter.

ANGLE ON DEBORAH & KILLER HILL:

Two young athletic men and one woman considerably ahead of

her on the steep incline.

ON RUNNERS.

They turn and look confused at Deborah who is so far behind

them she has no need to pass..They turn away. Deborah

struggles to turn it on and does so...huffing to just behind

them where she utters one more strained:

And then passes.

Flor at work on a sewing machine..opening seams, moving

buttons, even steaming where the buttons have been

changed..etc.

Flor is in the room...having put the altered clothes back in

place..Bernie's alarm clock rings..She wakes and sees Flor.

Flor holds up the new clothes and indicates that they are

beautiful.

Bernie starts her morning routine..her back to us when:

Flor at work..Chum, ball in mouth, comes to her and nudges

her.

Chum, momentarily depressed, walks away..Bernie enters. She

is a bit overwhelmed -- her voice breaking a bit even with

one word.

Flor turns..Bernie moves to embrace her.

As John comes down the stairs..He looks apprehensive..From

the den comes the sound of singing..it stops him from going

out the front door as he turns to check it out.

John finds Evelyn and Georgie in their night clothes. They

are singing an old song...something like "LUSH LIFE" -

something preposterous for a nine year-old boy..but you can't

knock the quality of the voices..world class. They see him

and stop.

He starts to follow him to his room.

He hands her the newspaper...

We MOVE with John and Georgie to Georgie's room where he goes

to his collectibles..He holds up a card..

Note: this is an involved discussion on both their

parts..NOTHING in John thinks it is trivial.

They are interrupted by a never quite heard before sound of

exultation..

Flor and Evelyn jolted..they exit to follow the sound..

As they enter holding the paper. She has been smacked in the

heart by gleeful and prideful emotions...It is disorienting

for her to experience the rush of pleasure.

Evelyn indicates to Flor that the good news is about

John..and so she studies him a bit..

She tears up...Evelyn rubs Bernie's back..looks at Flor and

taps her heart...Flor indicates she should leave and does.

Bernice continues reading with a lovely sense of mission and

moment. John is taken with his daughter's delivery.

Evelyn and Bernice hug him..

Deborah is ripping John's clothes off..buttons fly..shreds of

cloth..John is laughing - happy.

She rips at her own clothes and then exclaims in passion.

Flor walks to the news stand - as if to buy something --

changes her mind and LEAVES THE FRAME only to RETURN A HALF-

BEAT LATER where she reads to the dealer from a note.

Cristina, standing, translating the review into Spanish for

her mother...as she comes to the last sentence.

The Claskys are engaged in sex. John's brief sounds are

exuberant..they shift position so that Deborah is on top

BRINGING DEBORAH INTO A CLOSE SINGLE. Suddenly her smile

fades - she hits the skids.

ON JOHN.

This IS WEIRD. And then the small, distinctive sound of Deb's

climax...then, in a relatively small voice.

She falls off him...an arm across her eyes, lying on her back

down the bed from him...

ON JOHN.

Puzzling over what just happened..a few false starts forming

his thought...then finally..hesitantly...

He scoots to her side.

She grabs something and starts walking toward the bedroom.

She exits to the bathroom.

Very upset as he drives. Then comes to the red light at the

end of the street and sees Flor walking with others. An

awkward beat as he waits for the light to change and they

acknowledge each other..the light remains red..she confers

with another woman.

The woman tells Flor how to say it in English.

He nods..still the light doesn't change.

The light changes.

The light has changed - cars are beeping..she is about to let

him go off but realizes he will wait for her answer.

He nods and drives off.

As he enters....the phone is going off the hook..As he passes

the maitre d's desk. Their conversation is strangely hushed

and very, very quick.

They walk into the cooling room.

Again there is a kind of strange rapidity to the conversation

sparked by John..

As John and Deborah lay next to each other.

A man is parked at the gate in an open convertible..He is

great looking...We HEAR Deborah's excited voice over the gate

speaker...

As Deborah calls behind her as she opens the door...

She clicks the gate open and walks to the man..perfect 40

year old great looking surfer sort..Deborah does the very

slightest of "takes" at his looks..As she gets in..

As they pull away...

Deborah's hair whips across her face...it's bothersome.

Puzzled, she uses the electric lever and the seat budges

forward..

The Realtor uses his switches and raises his window a

bit..her window a bit less and monkeys the position of the

half windows in back...Deborah turns around checking out the

odd tweaking and then faces forward. Her hair blows perfectly

and beautifully behind her...

On his small laugh...

As they move toward the house...seeing the beach beyond.

As Deborah, Flor and Evelyn enter. They carry boxes of stuff.

She leads Flor to a small bedroom.

Flor doesn't understand..certainly doesn't want to.

Deborah uses her hand as if weighing something momentous like

the law vs. the bible then with heavy sarcasm.

When Flor gives no indication of anything - just standing,

somewhat stupefied..Deborah takes her by the hand and leads

her out.

As they move through a little courtyard area toward the

street.

As she leads Flor along the highway side of Carbon Beach -

passing houses until she sees a Hispanic man washing

someone's car in a driveway. Evelyn is many steps back.

He looks at Flor..my God.

He speaks to her in Spanish..a lavish, poetic compliment.

Flor, in full control, says, in Spanish.."Would you please

just find out what she wants." Evelyn joins them.

He translates along with Deborah's speech.

ON FLOR.

Stricken. She turns to Deborah.

Flor talks briefly in Spanish.

The Hispanic man translates the last sentence. Deborah and

Flor stare at each other..Deborah's next words are somber and

have enough body language to transcend the need for

translation...the jig is up.

Flor indicates there is no need to translate. A beat.

The man says something in Spanish to Flor as she starts to

walk away and she is thrown enough by the statement to

actually stumble as she looks back at him...then, before

Deborah can admonish him.

As Cristina, trying to suppress her grin, skips quickly down

the stairs moving towards a truck from John's restaurant.

Flor follows tight lipped - resolved. They each carry many

clothes on wire hangers. A group of girls on the balcony

literally cheer Cristina on.

Cristina grins hugely back at them.

The two women in the truck and then..

As the truck leaves the tunnel and all is cliffs, sand, and

waves..Cristina taking it in, unaware that her mother's eyes

never leave her.

She gasps frequently..MAJOR GIANT ORGANIC GASPS OF WONDER AND

PLEASURE..This is awe as an active physical exercise. The

MOVING SHOT dramatizes the crossroads of the mother-daughter

relationship as the TWO SHOT finds Flor becoming first

blurred then lost as we focus on Cristina exclaiming over

each new sight.

The truck in the driveway..the women walking through a front

door into a court yard.

Georgie, in a swim suit, talking to CHUM in the manner of

people trying to excite dogs.

The dog goes crazy with excitement -- then, droll for a nine

year old, Georgie turns to his grandmother (who is sunning

herself and reading) and addresses her in precisely the same

way. Evelyn has a drink in hand..

John enters the scene..

Georgie laughs..

Behind Flor and Cristina as they move toward the Claskys and

their destiny....Flor behind her daughter.

REVERSE - CLOSE ON CRISTINA.

As her eyes pop on seeing the Clasky beach house.

VERY CLOSE ON DEBORAH

As her eyes pop on seeing the stunning twelve year-old enter

her home, haloed by the sun. Again, Flor less distinct in

the background.

Bernice, just outside the open patio door, is putting on a

shirt over her bathing suit as she looks at Cristina and

emits a small, prescient moan.

Flor looks to her daughter for some understanding of what

Deborah said..

Cristina is as nonplussed by the remark as her mother.

Her mom, not crazy about the lack of accent to begin with,

nods.

Flor doesn't want her daughter to have an extended

conversation with Deborah of which she doesn't understand a

word.

Deborah has re-decorated the room with casual

brilliance...Flor is tense..distraught...her daughter

giddy...excited over the sheets, the tv, the pile of

towels..a chaise..She goes to work on her mother to go

swimming....wanting her to appreciate the fun element of

being here...the spirit of the kid such that Flor relents....

Flor and Cristina, two sea nymphs, lit by the floodlights

from the beach homes.

OTHER ANGLE.

John and Georgie in the waves..body surfing...they get to

shore...John sees the two females..dashing in the water in

their bathing suits..He remains hidden in a very shallow wave

as they run in...then once they are in he starts taking off

his wet suit hurriedly...

ON JOHN..

As he suffers the cold -- Georgie enjoying every moment.

Wave lights still shining..On a dune sits Cristina, looking

out.

As Deborah steps out on the deck and sees Cristina.

Cristina looks around -- then up..

As Flor wakes..looks around.

She goes to Cristina's bed...atop the bed is a note. She

picks it up.

INSERT..THE NOTE

Dear Flor,

I decided to steal your daughter for a bit.

LOVE,

DEBORAH

With great energy born of bottled fury, Flor begins to go

through her daughter's things...finding her backpack and

extracting a Spanish/English dictionary.

INSERT DICTIONARY.

As her finger points to:

"Steal...robar"

And then she flips some pages feverishly..Her finger

indicating:

"daughter .... hija"

