D'Artagnan can't help it, his eager reply leavens the

nobility of the moment with warm humor, youthful inno-

cence. His mother smiles as she repeats.

With that, she holds out the beautiful saber.         D'Artagnan

takes it firmly into his hands.

A huge and beautiful field appropriate to the moment.

Mother and son stand in the vast expanse. D'Artagnan

holds a restless horse by the reins, his traveling satch-

el attached to the saddle.

A bittersweet moment. D'Artagnan posed before his first

great adventure. But not completely certain that he

wishes to leave home.

D'Artganan's mother smiles, understands.       And speaks

gently to urge him forward.

And in this fashion, she releases him. D'Artagnan sweeps

his Mother into an embrace, now turns, heroic, and leaps

into the saddle. The horse reacts with a start, skitters

in a half-cicle. D'Artagnan struggles to gain control,

finally brings the horse to rein. He manages a charmed

grin. His mother smiles, scolds:

D'Artagnan digs his heels into the horse's flanks, shoots

off across bright green fields. His Mother shields her

eyes from the sun, feels a gathering of tears, and

watches him ride into the distance.

D'Artagnan's flight toward a new world.

It FILLS the SCREEN, serves as background for the MAIN

TITLES. As the FINAL CREDIT APPEARS, and the MUSIC ENDS,

the blade of a sword ENTERS FRAME. It slides beneath the

emblem, pries it off the wall. The emblem falls to the

floor with an undignified thud. A fire blazes in a huge

hearth behind it.

A room in the Musketeers Headquarters. The fallen emblem

is retrieved by JUSSAC, an officer who wears the bright

red tunic of the Cardinal's Guards.

Jussac offers   the emblem to a tall, elegant wraith in

black finery,   a patch covers one eye. This is the COUNT

DE ROCHEFORT,   Richelieu's right hand, one of the deadli-

est swordsmen   in all of France.

Jussac hastily adds the emblem to the fiery blaze, it is

instantly consumed. Rochefort watches it burn, then

walks to a balcony overlooking a vast courtyard.

Grim, funereal silence as a hundred Musketeers remove

their blue and gold tunics, drop them into a pile that

already contains their swords and muskets. The

Musketeers remain stoic throughout, unwilling to reveal

the depth of their despair. The latter is supervised by

the Cardinal's Guards, who view their hated enemies'

plight with satisfaction. This is a sad day for the

Musketeers, the end of an era.

MONSIEUR DE TREVILLE forces a salute toward the captain

of the Cardinal's Guards, hands over his own musket.

Treville is the respected leader of the Musketeers.       This

is the saddest moment of all.

Rochefort watches from above, a cruel smile twists his

lips. He steps to the railing, addresses the men below.

A hundred faces turn   upward to regard him. And on each

the same expression   -- absolute loathing for the man in

black. Rochefort is    not intimidated by this sea of con-

tempt. He revels in    it.

Muttered curses and dissent throughout.       Rochefort raises

his voice to be heard:

As Rochefort intended, the Musketeers explode. But

before they can attack the Guards, de Treville's com-

manding voice calls out above the clamor.

And with that, the Musketeers freeze. Their eyes go to

de Treville. There is a moment of silence as de Treville

chooses his words carefully. Even in defeat, de Treville

is stoic.

De Treville shoots a defiant look at Rochefort who smiles

in a patronizing manner. Then, de Treville leads his

Musketeers out of the courtyard.

He returns to the adjoining room where Jussac stands by.

Rochefort has enjoyed himself immensely. He goes to a

mirror and preens, adjusting his eye patch to a more rak-

ish angle. That's when he catches a glimpse of something

behind him. Something red. Rochefort turns.

a tall, powerfully built MAN stands in the shadows of the

room, a spectre in red.

Rochefort and Jussac instantly fall to their knees.

ARMAND DU PLEISS THE CARDINAL RICHELIEU steps out of the

darkness and into the light, his long crimson robes

swirling about him like clouds of blood. His face is

long, shrewd and intelligent. His eyes are penetrat-

ing. He smiles his crocodile smile.

Richelieu observes a duty roster on one of the walls.

It contains the names of all the Musketeers, past and

present.

On Richelieu's face, a flicker of irritation.

Jussac leads   a regiment of the Cardinal's Gruards down

Paris' most   colorful and notorious street. They react

to SHOUTING   and VIOLENT NOISES coming from a tavern

ahead. The    one called... The Dead Rat.

The tavern door flies open, and two of the Cardinal's

Guards are flung into the street, bruised and bloody.

Just then: A window on the second floor bursts open,

and a big Musketeer dangles a struggling Guard by his

feet, threatening to drop him into the street. The

Musketeer, a man of enormous appetites -- wine, women,

song -- is called PORTHOS. Jussac shouts:

Happy to comply, Porthos lets go of the Guard who plunges

to the street with a dull thud. Then, with a wink and a

piratical grin, Porthos ducks inside. Jussac darkens,

signals his men, and they rush toward the tavern.

Jussac and his company burst in and discover the room in

a shambles, the aftermath of a violent fight. But for

now, all is calm.

A group of the Cardinal's Guards is seated around a big

table littered with flagons and bottles. On the floor

around them are their swords and rifles. It appears the

Gruards are celebrating a victory. But wait. There's

something wrong with this picture. On closer inspection,

we see that the Guards have been stripped to their under-

clothes and tied to their chairs with ropes. They are

all bruised and bloody. Some are unconscious.

Presiding over the "celebration" are two Musketeers.

They sit at the head of the table, relaxing with their

boots up.

One of them casually cleans his sword with a lace hand-

kerchief. He is ARAMIS, the most handsome and dashing of

the Musketeers -- a poet and idealist -- a gentleman of

great personal charm and style.

His companion is   ATHOS, the Musketeers' deadliest and

most charismatic   member -- also its most mysterious and

tortured. Athos    is the unofficial leader of the Three

Musketeers, their   planner and strategist. At the moment,

he's sewing up a   nasty gash on his right arm.

Athos greets him with a dark smile.

Aramis leaps to his feet and bows graciously.    He is the

epitome of politeness.

Jussac is not amused.

Athos and Aramis exchange looks.

Jussac takes a step forward, fingering his saber.

With a sweeping gesture, Athos indicates the bloody

Guards around him.

Athos tips back in his chair and gazes upward.

To the Guards' surprise, Porthos is balancing on the

balcony rail above, just about even with a large wagon

wheel chandelier.

With the grace of an aerialist, Porthos jumps from the

balcony and lands atop the chandelier. His weight causes

the chains suspending it to break. With a whoop of

pleasure, Porthos rides the chandelier down as it lands

squarely atop Jussac's Guards, squashing them.

When the dust clears, only Jussac has been spared. He

looks on in disbelief as Porthos extricates himself from

the wreckage and calmly brushes his clothes off.

Athos and Aramis sheathe their swords, put on their hats,

wrap their capes around them and cross the room to join

Porthos.

Athos fixes Jussac with a dark, threatening look.

Jussac turns to watch Athos, Porthos, and Aramis step to

the street. He mutters as if to curse:

D'Artagnan, on horseback, pauses on a bluff overlook-

ing the magnificent city on the Seine. What he beholds

is Paris as it looked in the early part of the Seven-

teenth Century, its steeples and towers rising to meet the

sky. For a country boy like d'Artagnan, Paris is a

magical place where the wildest of dreams can come true.

D'Artagnan's reverie is broken by the sound of THUNDERING

HOOFBEATS coming from behind. He turns in response and

what he sees is this:

Two women on horseback are riding for all they're worth

pursued by two men on horseback.

His heroic blood stirs. Women in danger! As the women

GALLOP past, d'Artagnan leaps from his horse. Quickly

formulating a plan, he clambers up the trunk of a nearby

tree and climbs out on a branch that overhangs the road.

As the two riders pass underneath, d'Artagnan leaps into

space and tackles one of them, knocking him out of the

saddle. The rider hits the ground and is knocked sense-

less. One down.

D'Artagnan scrambles to his feet as the second rider re-

verses direction and GALLOPS back, charging d'Artagnan.

The rider draws his saber.

D'Artagnan dodges the horse and the sword. He catches

the second rider's arm and yanks him right out of the

saddle. The man lands with a painful thud at

d'Artagnan's feet. Before he can recover, d'Artagnan is

upon him with flying fists. One swift punch -- and the

second rider is senseless. Two down.

D'Artagnan stands over his two victims, out of breath,

but greatly pleased with his performance. He looks up as

the two women ride back to see what's happened.

The first woman is of noble breeding, a beautiful dark-

haired girl in her late teens. Her name is ANNE. Her

companion is roughly the same age, titan-haired and

equally beautiful. Her name is CONSTANCE.

Anne regards the two men on the ground, then d'Artagnan.

She shakes her head, laughs with delight and rides off.

Constance remains. She smiles down at d'Artagnan from

atop her horse.

D'Artagnan is stunned.

Constance points a finger in Anne's direction.

D'Artagnan looks at the two bodyguards who are beginning

to recover. Then he looks up at Constance, feeling like

a prize idiot.

Constance smiles at him, her eyes twinkling.

Constance spurs her horse and rides off to catch up with

Anne.

But Constance is gone.

D'Artagnan stands in the middle of the road, feeling

foolish and oddly thrilled at the same time. The two

bodyguards groan and grumble.

A bright reflection catches d'Artagnan's eye. He looks

down and sees a gleaming bracelet. He picks it up and...

With a guilty smile, d'Artagnan spurs his horse and rides

like Hell.

D'Artagnan rides to the top of the ridge, stops suddenly,

sees something that takes his breath away.

Paris laid out for him like a jewel, cloaked in mystery,

promising adventure and romance. D'Artagnan watches the

women as they ride into the fabled city in the distance.

He follows.

Athos, Aramis, and Porthos sweep into the now deserted

courtyard. Silence -- the last thing they expected --

stops them in their tracks. The place is a cemetery,

haunted by the ghosts of generations of Musketeers.

Porthos is visibly distraught. Rochefort enters from

behind an archway.

Porthos reaches inside his cloak and takes out a crumpled

red tunic he took from one of the Cardinal's guards. He

drops it on the ground, digs into a pocket and takes out

another. He finds another in his boot and another up his

sleeve. There's one in his hat. Like a magician, he

keeps pulling red tunics out of the most bizarre places.

Athos and Aramis have a few guard tunics themselves.

They pull them out and drop them into the growing pile.

The bitter memory hangs in the air for a moment.

Athos cuts him off with a look. He's familiar with

Porthos' propensity for tall tales. But not here, not

now. Athos turns back to the balcony. Rochefort lobs a

taunt.

Athos, who has remained silent, speaks with quiet power:

The gauntlet has been thrown.       Rochefort picks it up with

glee.

Rochefort steps back, disappears into the shadows.       A

beat. The Musketeers regard each other.

And that is all that remains.

Athos, Porthos, and Aramis step in different directions.

D'Artagnan rides through the streets of Paris. A country

boy happily stunned by the sights, sounds, and smells of

the city. Merchants gossip and call to each other from

shop doors. Colorful vendors and pedestrians move along

the crowded boulevard. Acrobats, puppeteers, and jug-

glers perform on street corners. LAUGHTER and MUSIC

drift from taverns and public houses.

D'Artagnan views it all with great enthusiasm. He sees

the exterior of the Musketeer Headquarters... wow! The

future belongs to him.

He crosses the courtyard to a large wooden door. But as

he reaches for the handle, the door flies open and smacks

him in his injured arm.

Athos is wearing his cape in such a way that it hides

his Musketeer tunic. D'Artagnan has no idea who he's

dealing with.

D'Artagnan blocks Athos' path.

D'Artagnan grabs Athos by his injured arm. Athos, stif-

ling pain, fixes d'Artagnan with a deadly look.

D'Artagnan touches his sword, eyes flashing at the pos-

sibility of a duel.

Athos exits.

Just then, d'Artangnan spies two familiar figures on

horseback, distinctive cloaks hiding their faces. Anne

and Constance, though he does not yet know their names.

D'Artagnan hurries after.

START CLOSE ON Porthos, his rogue's grin, the twinkle in

his eye.

reveals Porthos leaning against an open window, speaking

amiably to a pretty woman on the other side. She dabs a

tear from her eye, manages a nod.

Meanwhile, d'Artagnan races around another corner, down a

narrow lane, and speeds after the ladies on horseback.

He dashes through a muddy puddle -- spraying foul water

all over Porthos where he stands. D'Artagnan doesn't

notice, a huge cart loaded with wine barrels has rolled

INTO VIEW, blocking the lane. Fellow travelers shout

complaints, the cart driver shakes his head, makes an

obscene gesture. It's a Seventeenth Century traffic jam.

D'Artagnan sees Anne and Constance dismount in the dis-

tance, tie their horses, and step into an alley. A man

waits in the shadows to escort them. D'Artagnan leaps

off his horse, he means to continue his pursuit on foot.

But he takes two quick steps, and... runs directly into

Porthos' outstretched hand.

D'Artagnan looks up -- literally, given Porthos' impres-

sive stature -- and sees the Musketeer's muddied tunic,

and worse, a unique and expensive sash, now thoroughly

soiled.

Porthos' righteous indignation is more impressive than

his knowledge of current affairs. D'Artagnan corrects.

Porthos lets out a weary sigh.         He shakes his head.

D'Artagnan gives him a blank look.

Porthos couldn't be more insulted.       He sputters with

rage.

D'Artagnan thinks he sees     Anne and Constance, races down

the alley, turns a corner,     down a short street, makes a

hasty decision, runs down     yet another alley... and tum-

bles into a shadowy lane.      He stops, looks left and

right. And does see them.

The ladies enter a chapel's back door, close the door

behind them. D'Artagnan flies after, skids across cob-

blestones, rips the door open... and finds himself face

to face with the man who has escorted Anne and Constance

this far.

The Guard points to a large building in the distance with

a large cross.

PAN ACROSS the Virgin Mary and many lit candles to a

BEAUTIFUL DAMSEL sharing a love seat with the third

Musketeer, the dashing Aramis. Aramis has a book open

and is reading from it.

The Damsel suddenly grabs Aramis and kisses him on the

mouth. Aramis politely extricates himself. He's not the

least bit embarrassed, only slightly amused.

The Damsel attacks him again.         Suddenly, a pounding on

the door.

But Aramis' heart is too noble.         He gets down on his

knees.

That's when the door bursts open and the lady's husband,

an irate MARQUIS enters with a pistol. His eyes blaze

with madness. He aims the pistol at Aramis' head.

Aramis leaps to his feet and sprints for the open window.

As the Marquis aims and FIRES, Aramis puts one foot on

the ledge and leaps into space. The shot misses him by

inches.

As d'Artagnan runs past. Aramis lands on top of him and

they go crashing to the cobblestones. As they untangle

themselves and get up...

D'Artagnan pushes Aramis aside. Aramis grabs d'Artagnan

by the scruff of his neck and pulls him back.

D'Artagnan brightens.   Another duel!

Aramis bows politely.

Aramis takes off.   d'Artagnan swells with pride.

The Royal Palace of Louis XIII.

Anne, or rather, Queen Anne, steps into the throne room,

a massive cathedral-like chamber. Twin thrones occupy

a raised dais. An entire wall is covered with a spectac-

ular map of the world. The map contains every known

country and continent, including the New World. The

SENESCHAL exits, closing the doors with a resounding boom.

Anne pauses, all alone in the big, drafty chamber. And

for the first time, she looks and acts her age. Barely

a woman, chilled by the ghosts of all the French kings

and queens who came before her. And a long way from

home. Anne steps to the great map of the world. She

reaches out to touch her own country, Austria, feels a

pang of separation. We hear:

Anne reacts with a start. A tall, powerfully built man

stands in the shadows, a spectre in red.

Cardinal Richelieu steps out of the darkness.     He smiles.

Richelieu's question takes her by surprise. He bows

before Anne. Considering a reply, she extends her hand.

The Cardinal kisses it.

His manner is both charming and paternal. Anne, smart

enough to exercise caution in all her palace dealings,

is nonetheless touched by his concern.

Richelieu turns to the great map, speaks gently.

Richelieu brings his eyes back to Anne, continues:

He says it with seeming humility, not condescension.        Anne

nods assent.

Anne considers his eloquent advice, formulates a reply...

when the huge doors to the throne room open with a dull

boom, the Seneschal chants:

The Seneschal steps aside as LOUIS XIII enters. He is

surprisingly young, no older than d'Artagnan. His face

is handsome and intelligent.

As Louis strides toward them, Richelieu and Anne bow.

When Louis sees Anne, he reacts with an almost imper-

ceptible start. Her presence catches him off guard.

Louis hides his nervousness, not to mention his love,

behind a formal veneer. Anne, emboldened by Richelieu's

confidences, replies:

Louis suddenly remembers the reason he's here.       Determin-

ation breeds a more capable attitude.

He says it with newfound resolve. Richelieu receives the

rebuke with quiet grace. Anne watches the latter closely,

suppresses a smile. The boy is nearer to King than

Richelieu imagined.

A tense beat.    Anne, feeling out of place, steps toward

the door.

She means it.    Anne smiles, exits.      A beat.   Louis sighs.

Repetition reveals calculation. Louis nods.       And the

Cardinal surprises with quiet humor:

A beat. Richelieu acting as the lost father.        And Louis

appreciating it, speaking as a son:

Indeed he will.

Richelieu bursts out of the Throne Room and is joined by

Rochefort. Walking quickly down a long hallway.

HOLD ON the Cardinal and Rochefort, watching the King and

Queen below.

D'Artagnan walks proudly toward the Carmes-Deschaux

monastery, bold and brave, his future at hand. Suddenly.

A speeding carriage bears down on him. D'Artagnan leaps

from its path, stumbles. He looks up in time to see the

passenger inside, and for a moment, time seems to stop.

She is a noblewoman of remarkable beauty, her face framed

by the carriage window. Long blonde curly hair that

cascades in ringlets to her shoulders, languid blue eyes,

and skin as white as alabaster. She is known as MILADY

DE WINTER. She is to sex, what Constance is to innocence.

D'Artagnan watches as if in a dream. The carriage, the

beautiful woman inside it. Paris wraps its arms around

the young man's heart. Suddenly: a second face enters the

carriage window, replacing hers, jarring by contrast. It

is the fierce visage of Milady's Indo-Chinese Bodyguard,

PARKER. The bodyguard glares, pulls at the carriage

window curtains, taking Milady, the dream, from view.

HOLD ON d'Artagnan, bewitched, as the CARRIAGE RUMBLES off

into the city.

A beautiful house situated near the Seine. Milady's

carriage stops before it. She steps to the street,

Parker follows. After a brief spoken exchange, the body-

guard departs on some errand. HENRI, the driver, a brutal-

looking fellow, incongruous in his elegant coachman's

uniform, snaps the reins, and guides the carriage away.

Milady steps inside.

REVEALS this to have been the POV of two men standing in

the shadows across the street. COUNT DE WINTER, forty-

five, a kind face etched with sadness, and ARMAND DE

WINTER, twenty-five, his son. They are well-dressed. But

their manner and appearance suggests that they have

traveled a long distance to find her.

He will not consider otherwise. Armand sighs, stands in

the shadows, and watches his father cross toward Milady's

house.

Milady stands before a mirror, reaches for one of the many

ivory combs that adorn her hair. As she places the comb

we notice a small flower-like tattoo on her arm. She

pauses to admire her beauty, then to see the image of

Count de Winter, now standing behind her, his eyes dark

and cold. Milady does not move from the reflecting glass,

she smiles.

The Count steps closer, close enough to touch. Milady,

eyes bright with excitement, the smile still playing about

her lips, replies:

Milady, who has been removing combs throughout, reaches

for the next, and...

Armand keeps his eyes on Milady's house opposite. No

sign of his father. He looks about, impatient... and

steps across the street to enter.

Armand climbs a flight of stairs.    Still no sign of his

father, or Milady. He calls out:

Worry makes him hurry. Armand takes hasty steps into

Milady's bedroom. The first thing he sees is his own

face in the mirror. The second is his father's inert

body below it. Armand gasps, races to his side. A thin

trail of bright blood is seen briefly at the older man's

ear. Armand gathers his father up into his arms, and

begins to weep.

The monastery is a windowless building   bordered by a

barren field, a dueling ground for men   who have little

time to waste.  Athos sits on a stone   bench, waits for

his adversary to arrive. His horse is    hobbled nearby.

D'Artagnan rides INTO VIEW, dismounts.

Athos appreciates the young man's retort, takes a closer

look. Then he rises to his feet, the pain in his arm

makes him wince.

D'Artagnan notices Athos' pained expression, the blood on

his sleeve.

Porthos and Aramis arrive on horseback. They dismount,

view d'Artagnan with amazement. D'Artagnan reacts with

similar surprise, smiles sheepishly.

Athos gestures for Aramis and Porthos to stand aside. He

draws his saber, ready to fight. A beat. And in that

moment, d'Artagnan's face reveals an emotion he has never

felt before in his young life. Fear. Athos sees it,

allows him a moment to withdraw his saber. D'Artagnan

does so, they square off, touch sabers, and...

... Jussac leads a patrol of the Cardinal's Guards INTO

VIEW.

Athos and d'Artagnan separate as Jussac and his four

swordsmen stride towards them.

Athos steps forward to meet him.

Porthos huddles with Athos and Aramis.

They turn and regard d'Artagnan.

The three Musketters exchange smiles. D'Artagnan's

youthful bravado manages a small dent in their cynicism.

The name has meaning for all of them. The Musketeers

look at each other, deadpan, shake their heads.

Athos knows that it is. He steps forward, extends a

hand. The others follow, shake as well. Athos intro-

duces each in turn.

Meanwhile, Jussac and his Guards look on with increasing

impatience. He clears his throat, draws his saber. The

Musketeers turn toward the Guards, d'Artagnan standing

among them.

D'Artagnan and the Musketeers draw their swords... and

charge.

Suddenly: nine men are locked in mortal combat. Athos

takes a Guard named Cahusac, Porthos battles BISCARAT,

and Aramis battles with two adversaries at once.

D'Artagnan looks for an opponent... and finds himself

face to face with Jussac.

The fighting style of the Musketeers is an exuberant mix-

ture of styles and techniques. Athos is a brutal swords-

man, his strokes overpowering and savage. His repertoire

also includes swift kicks, solid punches, the occasional

elbow when necessary. Aramis is a seamless and graceful

technician, he handles his two opponents with balletic

ease, an artist working with steel and flesh, rather than

paint and canvas.

And last, and perhaps the most entertaining of all,

Porthos. He is a walking arsenal, carrying a variety of

bizarre weapons on his body -- a crossbow, daggers, bolo,

nunchucks -- all of which he uses with the polished skill

of a master. Add this funhouse of armaments to his

already impressive size and strength, and you have a one-

man wrecking crew of epic proportions.

D'Artagnan's youthful energy is by now familiar. He

bounds about like a newborn tiger, encircles his adver-

sary, changing stance and shifting his ground with alac-

rity. Jussac is having a hard time defending himself

against his opponent who seems to be attacking from all

directions at once.

A monk watches from the bell tower, incensed by the battle

raging on the field below. He grabs the BELL rope, gives

it a mighty pull... and sounds a clamorous ALARM.

Porthos reacts to the interruption with irritation. He

produces a pair of nunchucks. Biscarat looks at the odd

weapon with professional curiosity, slight confusion...

and Porthos whacks him on the side of the head, knocks

him to the ground.

Aramis replies while shifting from one foe to the next.

Porthos slides over to handle one of Aramis' opponents.

He'd rather bicker from close range. But Biscarat

struggles to his feet, grabs his saber. Porthos sees

him, sighs.

And Porthos returns to his original foe. Meanwhile,

Athos' heavy strokes take their toll. Cahusac staggers,

wounded in arm, shoulder, grazed at the head -- and falls

to the ground with a thud. Aramis calls out to him,

indicates d'Artagnan:

Not only is d'Artagnan alive, but he's making a fool out

of Jussac.  Frustrated, enraged, Jussac makes a full lunge

at him, but d'Artagnan ducks, then slips under Jussac's

sword like a snake and runs him through.

Jussac falls to the ground, lies still.    He is dead.

Athos and Aramis react, impressed. Then turn their full

attention on weakening foes. They disarm and disable

them with swift strokes. Meanwhile, Porthos chases

Biscarat into a grove of trees. The Guard has discovered

the better part of valor, now runs for his life. Porthos

-- who is at play as much as he is war -- takes a Spanish

bolo from his cloak, and whips the balls over his head.

Biscarat hears the odd WHIZZING sound, turns to face him.

The color drains from his face.

Porthos lets the bolo fly -- it catches Biscarat about

the neck, the balls slam into his head. The Guard drops

to the ground without a sound.

A sudden silence, save for the occasional dull groan.

D'Artagnan scans the battlefield, sees Aramis bending

over Jussac's body, speaking in solemn tones under his

breath.

Porthos returns in high spirits, stashes the bolo in a

pouch under his cloak. D'Artagnan sees the other weapons

there, including a boomerang. Maybe next time.

Porthos deadpans, then grins acceptance.      All for one,

and one for all. D'Artagnan beams.

Aramis and Porthos look to Athos.      As always, he will

decide.

It's hard to say whether he's acting out of concern for

the boy... or he simply doesn't give a damn. Whatever

the case, d'Artagnan is crestfallen. The Musketeers

mount their horses, Porthos and Aramis adopt a friendlier

tone.

Athos spurs his horse, rides away. Aramis and Porthos

follow. HOLD ON d'Artagnan as he watches the Musketeers

grow small in the distance. Then, sadly, he steps to his

horse, climbs into the saddle. It has been both the best

and the worst day of his young life.

That's when a group of horsemen come riding around the

corner of the monastery -- five Cardinal's Guards led by

Rochefort himself. They see their wounded comrades,

Jussac dead, and the three Musketeers escaping in the

distance.

But before Rochefort and the Guards can give chase,

d'Artagnan rides into the middle of the field to

challenge them, as if to further prove himself worthy

of the blue and gold.

And d'Artagnan draws his saber.

AT DISTANCE

The three Muskeeters rein their horses, look back to

d'Artagnan's bold charge.

D'Artagnan gallops toward the Guards to engage them.    He

races through PISTOL SHOTS like a demon possessed.

Rochefort rides to the lead, draws his sword.

And like two jousting knights, d'Artagnan and   Rochefort

meet in the middle of the field. Their BLADES    connect

with a resounding CLASH, d'Artagnan is knocked   clear of

his saddle. He hits the ground with a painful    thud.

Rochefort's Guards leap towards him.

Porthos and Aramis are greatly moved by d'Artagnan's

courage.

Athos spurs his horse, rides away. Aramis and Porthos

exchange sad looks and hopeful comments.

And with that, they gallop after.

Meanwhile, d'Artagnan is soon outnumbered, and quickly

subdued.

The Guard clobbers d'Artagnan with the scabbard of his

sword. The last thing d'Artagnan sees is the three

Musketeers riding into the distance. Then the WORLD

TILTS, GOES SUDDENLY BLACK.

FADE IN:

The walls and towers of France's most infamous prison

rise to meet a starless sky. The portcullis is raised

by men-at-arms, admitting a spectacular crimson carriage

pulled by a team of snow-white stallions. The emblem of

the Cardinal of France is emblazoned on the carriage

door, and THROUGH its WINDOW we see the profile of

Richelieu.

Lovingly, he fingers the upholstery of his extravagant

carriage.

A chamber in hell. Spiders the size of rats, rats the

size of small dogs. A foul stench in the air. D'Artagnan

is sprawled in a corner, unconscious, on a filthy matted

floor. The sharp tip of a sword pokes him in the chest.

D'Artagnan wakes with a start, springs back into action.

As if he was still battling Jussac at the Carmes-Deschaux.

He slaps the sword away, leaps to his feet, and reaches

for his own. But it is gone.

Rochefort steps INTO VIEW, the familiar eyepatch, admiring

d'Artagnan's sword in his hands.

Rochefort studies d'Artagnan for a long moment, then...

D'Artagnan starts forward. But Rochefort raises the

sword, points it at his throat. D'Artagnan freezes,

feels the sharp tip of the blade.

Rochefort shoves d'Artagnan back to the floor with a

heavy boot. A beat. D'Artagnan peers at his dismal

surroundings.

D'Artagnan says nothing.     He will not betray them.

Rochefort leans close.

A long beat. D'Artagnan eyes the gleaming saber, forged

in the Crusades. He nods, gestures for Rochefort to

come closer. As if to impart a secret. Rochefort tilts

downward, d'Artagnan rises up... and whispers.

Bold words, bad timing. Rochefort snarls, slams the hilt

of the sword into d'Artagnan's head. The youth slumps

from the wooden stool to the floor, unconscious.

Rochefort storms from the cell. He nods at a grizzled

jailer on his way out, indicates the chains and manacles

on the cell wall. The jailer scurries over to d'Artagnan,

inert in a shallow puddle of foul water. He lifts, drags

him toward the chains -- but d'Artagnan's eyes pop open,

the jailer reacts with surprise, and...

The jailer exits from d'Artagnan's cell, closes the heavy

door behind him. A CLOSER look reveals d'Artagnan in the

jailer's soiled tunic, eyes bright with adventure. He

looks left and right -- dank corridors, darkness, the

OCCASIONAL GROAN. And steps lightly into the shadows.

He seeks exit, finds only a labyrinth. Two jailers con-

verse, step towards him. D'Artagnan leaps into a cell

doorway, allows them to pass. Suddenly: scabrous hands

reach from inside the cell, grab d'Artagnan by the throat.

He shudders, leaps free. And continues.

D'Artagnan steps     deeper in the labyrinth. Frustrated,

no way out. Just      then: more FOOTSTEPS heading toward

him. D'Artagnan      seeks refuge, watches as a cloaked

figure steps INTO     VIEW, accompanied by a retinue of

sullen jailers.

D'Artagnan thinks fast... and joins them.

D'Artagnan keeps step with the cloaked figure, the ret-

inue. He keeps his head down, glances at the corridor

ahead, looking for a way out. But the cloaked figure is

escorted up a long stairway, into another hall, and

toward a pristine wooden door. D'Artagnan watches as

the door opens, revealing... Cardinal Richelieu, a fear-

some apparition in red, the most powerful man in France.

D'Artagnan's jaw drops. The cloaked figure steps inside.

The jailers disperse. D'Artagnan takes steps as if to

join them... then turns back, eyes the door, the Cardinal

and the cloaked figure now behind it.

The cloaked figure bows to the Cardinal. Richelieu

smiles, concupiscent. Rochefort stands in a corner,

ignored for the moment.

The figure rises. The hood falls back... revealing the

unforgettable features of Milady de Winter. She answers

the Cardinal's smile with a seductive expression.

Richelieu and Milady share a look of intimacy, two vipers

from the same pit.

D'Artagnan slips closer, reaches for the handle, finds it

unlocked. He opens the door a fraction, holds an ear

close...

Richelieu produces a sealed document from his sleeve,

and hands it to Milady.

Rochefort knows what this portends.    He steps from the

corner.

Richelieu's not talking about Louis.    He's talking about

himself.

D'Artagnan leaps back from the door as it opens, head

down, shuffles to join the retinue of jailers as they

RETURN TO VIEW. Milady, unrecognizable behind her cloak,

steps into the corridor, the retinue escorts her forward.

D'Artagnan falls into place, eyes down, eager for escape.

Just then: a hand slams down upon his shoulder.

D'Artagnan looks up into the face of Captain Rochefort.

Exiting.

D'Artagnan lands with a thud at Richelieu's feet.

Rochefort hisses:

When d'Artagnan fails to respond, Rochefort gives him a

mighty kick. D'Artagnan scrambles into the correct

posture of supplication. Rochefort continues:

Rochefort punches d'Artagnan in the head, knocking him to

the floor. The Cardinal frowns.

D'Artagnan reacts to the Cardinal's reasonable tone.

Rochefort makes a sullen exit. The Cardinal smiles.

D'Artagnan reacts with perceptible awe, as if seeing his

first movie star. He sits in a finely brocaded chair,

looks at the Cardinal, an apparition in red. The Cardinal

speaks, his manner casual, friendly.

Richelieu smiles, dismisses d'Artagnan's tale with a

wave of his hand.

Richelieu's seeming kindness conceals a heart of ice.

D'Artagnan sees it now, replies quietly. No longer in

awe, but in opposition.

Richelieu turns for the door, means to dismiss him.

D'Artagnan calls after.

Richelieu opens the door.       Rochefort waits on the other

side.

Rochefort steps into the room, grabs d'Artagnan roughly

by the arm, hurls him from the chair to the floor. This

time Richelieu does not utter protest. Instead, he

turns to the Captain, commands:

With that, Cardinal Richelieu sweeps into the dark.       HOLD

ON d'Artagnan for a beat. History's pawn.

BELLS TOLL. A motley crowd gathers around the execution

scaffold, held back by men-at-arms. A hooded executioner

mounts the steps of the scaffold in the company of a

PRIEST. The Priest wears a black cassock and a broad

black sombrero. The executioner, a large man, raises

his axe and touches the end of the blade, cutting his

finger. Razor-sharp. The executioner holds up his

bloody thumb.

The crowd roars approval. And turns to regard the day's

victim as he is rolled INTO VIEW.

D'Artagnan stands, half-naked, his hands bound behind him,

in a horse-drawn cart. The driver turns the cart, begins

a circuit of the square. The blood-thirsty crowd cheers

and jeers at d'Artagnan. But d'Artagnan keeps his head

high. If he must die, he will die with dignity.

Rochefort watches from a tower overlooking the square.

Richelieu appears beside him.

Down below, the horse cart reaches the scaffold. A man-

at-arms drops the tailgate, d'Artagnan steps down. He is

taken into the custody of a CAPTAIN OF THE GUARDS, and

several men-at-arms carrying muskets.

The Cardinal's familiar carriage is parked a safe distance

from the square. The Guards who attend it have wandered

off to watch the festivities. The coachman remains,

seated on top, braiding his whip. Suddenly, a gloved hand

grabs the coachman, yanks him from his seat.

D'Artagnan is led by the Captain of the Guards up the

stairs to the execution platform. The executioner and

the Priest wait patiently above. D'Artagnan sees the

bloodstained block where his neck will soon lie; pales.

The Priest mutters comfort:

D'Artagnan regards the Priest whose face is hidden be-

neath the brim of his broad black hat. He holds a

large Bible in his hands.

The Priest raises his face, reveals it... and winks.         It

is Aramis. He whispers:

D'Artagnan's heart soars. He turns to face the execu-

tioner. Porthos grins beneath the hood's overhang.

Porthos lays his axe aside, approaches d'Artagnan in a

threatening manner. He takes him by the scruff of the

neck, and forces his head upon the chopping block. The

crowd goes wild.

The Captain of the Guards gives Aramis a suspicious look.

Porthos nods.

Meanwhile, on the perimeter of the square, two figures

ride on horseback, they wear familiar cloaks. A CLOSER

look reveals Queen Anne and Constance. They ride through

the city, towards the countryside beyond. But their

progress has led them here. Anne frowns at the spectacle.

She replies   with contempt, reins her horse away from the

square, the   crowd, the executioner's axe. But Constance

freezes in   place, eyes wide. As d'Artagnan, upon the

cart, rolls   INTO VIEW.

For just a moment, their eyes lock. Inestimable space

between. Constance's eyes fill with tears, she watches

d'Artagnan. Porthos steps back from d'Artagnan, raises

his axe. D'Artagnan shuts his eyes, wonders, mutters a

silent prayer. That's when screams of panic erupt from

the crowd. D'Artagnan raises his head to see the source

of this mayhem.

The Cardinal's crimson carriage races toward the scaffold,

scattering the crowd in all directions. Men shout, women

scream, all leaping to avoid the stallion's sharp hooves,

the coach's THUNDEROUS spinning WHEELS. In the driver's

seat, clutching the reins in one hand and CRACKING a WHIP

in the other... is Athos.

Porthos uses the heavy blunt end of the axe to topple the

closest men-at-arms. Aramis opens his Bible, pulls out

a PISTOL, and BLASTS the saber from the hand of the

Captain of the Guards. A man-at-arms raises his musket

to shoot the false priest, but d'Artagnan leaps out of

nowhere, lands on him with both feet, knocking the man-

at-arms off the scaffold.

Athos pulls up alongside the scaffold.

D'Artagnan rushes to the edge of the scaffold, springs

into the air, landing on the seat beside him. Aramis and

Porthos shed their disguises, jump after, light upon the

carriage. The roof fabric tears, they drop into the

plush interior below. Athos CRACKS the WHIP... and the

stallions race off through the crowd, towards freedom.

Constance watches the escape, transfixed, delighted. As

the carriage barrels from the scaffold, she thrusts a

gloved fist into the air, triumphant.

But the Cardinal looks on with horror.

Athos produces a dagger, cuts the leather ties that bind

d'Artagnan's wrists.

Athos cracks the whip, driving the horses onward.

Aramis and Porthos have settled in comfortably.      Porthos

spies a wicker hamper on the floor.

Porthos lifts the lid. Inside: bottles of wine, champagne,

and a wide assortment of foods.

Porthos extracts a bottle of wine, grabs a turkey leg.

Aramis looks about the interior, spies a small ornate

box.

Aramis opens the box, reacts.        It is filled with gold

coins, jewelry.

Aramis sticks his head through the hole in the fabric

roof, hands the ornate box to d'Artagnan.

D'Artagnan grabs a handful of coins, and tosses them into

the air. Aramis smiles approval, drops back to the

carriage interior. Pedestrians see the gold, shout, and

leap after. Their hurried steps impede the Guards' pro-

gress, horses rear up, soldiers tumble. But several of

the Guards manage to avoid the obstacle, pursue the

carriage with renewed determination. D'Artagnan hears a

LOUD POPPING sound, ducks.

Porthos sticks his head INTO VIEW, offers them a bubbling

bottle of champagne, the source of the popping sound.

Porthos ducks down, returns with a new bottle.

Porthos hands   the bottle to Athos. Athos hands the reins

to d'Artagnan.    D'Artagnan struggles with the reins, tries

to control the   horses. And beams, taking delight from

every instant   of adventure. Athos SMASHES the top of the

BOTTLE, drinks   deeply, settles back to enjoy himself.

Athos growls, d'Artagnan jerks at the reins. The carriage

careens around the corner, tipping on two wheels.

Porthos looks up from his chest, champagne spilled all

over his tunic... and a brand new sash.

The carriage charges up a steep hill. At the summit, Athos

tosses aside his bottle, takes the reins from d'Artagnan.

D'Artagnan sighs with relief. Athos yanks the brake

lever, brings the horses to a halt, and leaps down from

the driver's seat. D'Artagnan follows. Athos pulls the

passenger door open, revealing Porthos and Aramis inside.

Gold coins on the carpet at their feet, food and drink

between them.

D'Artagnan points to the bottom of the hill.       The mounted

Guards chase after, begin their ascent.

D'Artagnan hurries to the horses. Porthos and Aramis

climb from the cab. Porthos emits a contented belch.

Aramis hands Athos a sack of powder, and his pistol.

Athos tosses the sack into the carriage, takes aim with

the PISTOL, and SHOOTS it -- igniting the powder inside.

The interior of the Cardinal's carriage bursts into

flames.

D'Artagnan and the three Musketeers mount the Cardinal's

white stallions, race off into the distance. Porthos

shouts, laughing.

The Cardinal's face is contorted in fury. He    steps out of

a horse cart, approaches the charred remains   of his be-

loved carriage. He stares at the smouldering    ruin for a

long beat. Rochefort and a company of Guards    stand near-

by, wait for him to speak. When he does, his    tone is

measured and calm.

Rochefort reacts with surprise.

D'Artagnan and the three Musketeers rest against tree

trunks in a hidden glade, polish off the last of the

Cardinal's food and drink. Their usual cynicism replaced

by something approaching camaraderie. Aramis smiles as

d'Artagnan attacks a turkey wing.

The mention of the elder d'Artagnan's death casts a pall.

D'Artagnan continues, tentative, the memory still hurts.

An uncomfortable silence.     It is Athos who finally speaks:

D'Artagnan pales, stunned and silent.      He manages a

broken whisper:

Athos shakes his head.     Porthos adds:

D'Artagnan isn't listening. He stands suddenly, turns,

and walks away. He doesn't want the Musketeers to see

the tears forming in his eyes. Aramis shouts after:

D'Artagnan stands at a flowing stream, wipes the tears

from his eyes. Aramis appears at his side, offers silent

comfort, a hand on d'Artagnan's shoulder.

That's all the evidence Aramis requires.       D'Artagnan

pauses to reflect. Then wonders:

Aramis opens his cloak, reveals a priestly cloth.       A

secret he carries near to his heart.

D'Artagnan nearly jumps from his boots.

Richelieu stands on the roof   of the Palais, lost in

thought.  He looks down and   sees, through the smoke and

mist, the silent rooftops of   Paris, pointed, innumerable.

Richelieu turns, and crosses   to an elaborate pigeon coop.

Servants attach messages to   the legs of carrier pigeons.

Rochefort steps INTO VIEW, anxious, out of breath.

Richelieu nods, he already knows.       He picks up one of

the pigeons, strokes it gently.

Richelieu releases the bird, and watches it streak sky-

ward, flying across the sky.

The three Musketeers gather around d'Artagnan, listen to

his story. In mid-telling:

The Musketeers look at each other with alarm.

Athos stops their exuberant plots and plans with a

single word. All turn, wonder.

Bold words. D'Artagnan matures by leaps and bounds.

Athos almost smiles.

Fog drifts across    a lonely stretch of road. Suddenly:

pounding HOOFBEATS    come over the scene. MUSIC SWELLS.

And galloping out    of the fog come d'Artagnan and the

three Musketeers,    riding hell-for-leather. HOLD ON this

heroic tableau for    a long beat.

Four rough-looking MERCENARIES crouch on a low bridge

spanning a shallow stream. They are armed with muskets

and swords. The Mercenaries wait in the darkness, whisper

eagerly among themselves.

One of them hisses for silence, all conversation ends.

And the sound of HOOFBEATS is heard in the distance.

Faint, but growing closer.

The Mercenaries raise their muskets, take aim. Right on

cue, four horsemen come THUNDERING out of the mist. But

just before they reach the bridge, the four horsemen

break in half -- one pair rides to the left, the other to

the right. Before the Mercenaries realize what's

happened, the horsemen ride on either side, splashing

through the shallow stream. In a flash, they return to

the road, and race away. Having avoided the bridge

completely.

Cursing, the angry Mercenaries whirl about, FIRE at

d'Artagnan and the three Musketeers as they ride into

the night. Porthos' merry laugh drifts back to mock them.

An overturned wagon lies in the ditch. Beer kegs litter

the roadway. The wagon's driver, an old FARMER, sits on

one of the kegs, holding his head. D'Artagnan and the

Musketeers gallop INTO VIEW, rein their horses to a stop.

D'Artagnan starts to dismount.

Suddenly: two other men step before the wagon, pointing

muskets. The ragged Farmer reaches inside his coat, pulls

out a pistol, makes a smirking request:

D'Artagnan and the "Farmers" gape at Aramis in surprise.

The Farmer laughs, contemptuously. He raises his pistol

and aims it at Porthos' head. But before he can pull the

trigger, THREE EXPLOSIONS ERUPT from under the cloaks of

Athos, Porthos and Aramis.

When the smoke clears, d'Artagnan is startled to see the

three dead "Farmers" sprawled in the road and the three

pistols emerging from beneath the cloaks of the

Musketeers.

Aramis swings out of the saddle and begins to perform

last rites over the bodies. D'Artagnan still can't be-

lieve what just happened. He turns to Porthos. Porthos

raises the barrel to his lips and blows away the gunsmoke.

THUNDER RUMBLES and RAINS begins to fall.

A large warm tavern with a ROARING FIRE.

Present are the INNKEEPER, his wife, a few benighted tra-

velers and THREE BARMAIDS. They turn as the door flies

open and the Musketeers and d'Artagnan enter from a RAGING

STORM. They keep their cloaks drawn about them and wear

the brims of their hats pulled low to cover their faces.

The occupants of the inn regard the new arrivals with

suspicion. Outisde, the STORM BLOWS. D'Artagnan closes

the heavy door. Fearful, the Innkeeper comes forward to

meet the four ominous travelers.

Porthos is on the lookout for danger. He reaches inside

his cloak for a weapon and, in doing so, accidentally

exposes his Musketeer tunic.

The sound of SLIDING STEEL as Athos, Porthos, Aramis and

d'Artagnan draw their swords, ready to fight. They stand

back to back in a circle, ready for attack.

But there is no attack. Quite the contrary.       The people

here are thrilled to see them.

The Musketeers lower their swords.

The Musketeers return their swords to their sheathes and

take off their dripping hats and capes. The pretty

Barmaids crowd around them to collect their gear and car-

ry it to the fire.

Porthos rubs his hands together, eager to indulge himself.

He follows the Barmaids, booming in his loud, friendly

voice.

Porthos beams, waiting for a big response but nothing

happens. The Barmaids look at each other.

Still no response.    Aramis and d'Artagnan hide smiles.

The three Barmaids perk up.

And with that, the three Barmaids desert Porthos and

scurry across the room to attach themselves to Aramis.

Porthos shakes his head and flops down in a chair.

Moments later.   Porthos regales the Barmaids with a tale.

The Barmaids accept his leering compliment with glee.

But d'Artagnan isn't so sure. Porthos, with two Barmaids,

bellows a reply.

The Barmaids heartily concur. D'Artagnan looks over

Porthos' shoulder, to the dark-haired Barmaid seen previ-

ously. Porthos follows his gaze, grins.

Porthos pulls one of the Barmaids to his chest, brings

her lips toward his.

Porthos gives the Barmaid a powerful kiss.      He breaks it,

turns to d'Artagnan with a grin.

All turn to regard Aramis. He'll play along too.

Porthos reacts with delight. D'Artagnan with interest.

Aramis continues:

Aramis' courtly behavior is as out of place in these en-

virons as it is persuasive. The Barmaid slips from

Porthos' lap, sits down on the bench beside him.

Aramis does not touch her. He simply looks into her

eyes... and begins to speak.

The Barmaid, once skeptical, sits silently. Her face

covered with tears. Aramis pauses, almost embarrassed by

the outcome. He turns to d'Artagnan, cites:

The Barmaid on his lap disagrees.

D'Artagnan looks at the dark-haired Barmaid across the

room. Porthos urges him on.

D'Artagnan steps forward. The dark-haired Barmaid sees

him coming and smiles. D'Artagnan stands before her,

hesitates, not sure where to start. Then, remembering as

best he can:

D'Artagnan takes the Barmaid into his arms, delivers a

powerful kiss. As previously demonstrated. Porthos and

Aramis smile proudly. The Barmaids cheer.

D'Artagnan drains his flagon, indicates Athos sitting at

a table by himself, scowling, working on his third bottle

of Burgundy.

A Barmaid scurries INTO   VIEW. Porthos grabs her by the

waist, adds the Barmaid   to the one already sitting on his

lap. The chair breaks    beneath them, and all three go

sprawling on the floor,   laughing heartily.

He remains lost in drink. D'Artagnan appears beside him.

He hides his concern behind a cheerful attitude.

Athos pulls d'Artagnan down with a dark smile.     He fills

his flagon for him.

D'Artagnan notices the dark-haired Barmaid eyeing him

across the room.

The word nearly makes Athos grimace. He stares at

d'Artagnan for a long beat, then beyond. As if to look

into another time and place. Finally:

Athos' voice reveals unexpected vulnerability, the pain

he keeps inside. D'Artagnan is fascinated, moved. He

nearly whispers:

Athos takes a long pull from the bottle of burgundy,

wipes the blood red wine from his lips.

D'Artagnan reacts with shock.

Athos pauses, imagines that life.      The Count and his

angel.

Athos now turns his unflinching gaze on d'Artagnan.

HOLD ON Athos for a long time.       As he gathers up his pain,

and puts it back again.

Athos SMASHES open another BOTTLE. But the story has

made d'Artagnan quite sober and a little sick to his

stomach. He refuses another drink.

Aramis launches into something appropriate. Porthos and

a Barmaid get up and begin a festive folk dance.

Porthos is damned good. His joie de vivre is infectious

and soon everyone in the inn is clapping and encouraging

him. Every once in awhile, another WEAPON -- a dagger or

something -- drops out of Porthos' clothing and hits the

floor with a CLATTER.

That's when Porthos, dancing with abandon, spins out of

control, trips and falls on Athos' table, crushing it to

the floor.

Porthos lies in the wreckage, staring up. Athos, totally

unperturbed, looks down and offers him the bottle.

Porthos blinks in amazement at Athos' grim face, then

breaks out laughing.

The Innkeeper comes down the stairs wearing a nightshirt

and a sleepy expression.

They turn in disbelief to the shuttered windows. Sure

enough. Sunlight is peeking in through the cracks.

The sun rises, casts long shadows across a sparkling dew-

wet field. D'Artagnan and the Musketeers ride INTO

FRAME, continuing their journey to Calais. D'Artagnan

squints ahead, wincing with every bump. Porthos grins.

D'Artagnan is terribly hung-over from the night's

carousing. He looks like he could puke at any moment.

So that's exactly why Porthos shouts to him and says...

D'Artagnan covers his mouth.    Porthos laughs good-

naturedly.

Athos is cut off by an EAR-PIERCING WHISTLE as a CANNON

BALL drops out of the sky and STRIKES the ground nearby,

sending up a tremendous EXPLOSION.

Another BALL EXPLODES into the ground in front of them.

Their horses rear up in fear, threatening to dump them

out of their saddles. As the Musketeers and d'Artagnan

struggle to control their horses, they look back and see

an old castle atop a distant hill.

A group of men operate two rusted cannons, left over from

some long-forgotten war.

The Musketeers barely calm their horses, when another

BALL comes SCREAMING their way, IMPACTING a few feet

away. As dirt rains upon them:

Athos spurs his horse across the field, d'Artagnan and

the Musketeers follow. But they discover crude battle-

ments in their path. Athos changes direction, sees six

horsemen waiting for them in the near distance. He

changes direction again, as the horsemen charge after.

They ride as fast their mounts will carry them. A cross-

roads up ahead. Athos sizes up the situation, shouts

command.

D'Artagnan nods, thrilled to go with Athos.

Athos and d'Artagnan take off in one direction, Porthos

and Aramis in the other. The pursuing horsemen soon

race INTO VIEW, break in half to give chase.

A room heavy with mist and steam. Behind a maze of gauze

screens, we discover Anne reclining in a large tiled bath,

Constance attending. Constance replenishes the bath with

pitchers of hot water drawn from a boiling cauldron.

In mid-conversation, as confidantes and friends:

Anne turns to Constance, soap and water swirl about her

naked body. She wonders:

A warm beat. Anne and Constance are friends as much as

they are Queen and subject.

Anne pauses.    If only her life, her emotions, were as

simple.

A sad beat.    Constance teases:

A beat. And Anne is a girl of eighteen again, not Queen.

Wistful, she replies:

HOLD ON Anne for a beat.

Anne steps to a dressing chamber, wearing a long robe,

arranging her thick wet hair into braids.

Anne stops short. Cardinal Richelieu waits for her in

the dressing chamber, now bows, assumes a supplicant air.

Richelieu allows the jest, remains silent, watchful.

Anne resumes, chooses her words with care.

Richelieu reacts with quiet pleasure.    He steps closer.

Richelieu makes his case with forceful eloquence, seeming

loyalty. Anne considers, replies, noncommittal:

Anne senses hidden agenda, intrigues below the surface.

The conversation's conspiratorial tone begins to disturb

her.

Anne nods, turns back toward the chambers.       Richelieu

calls after.

Richelieu steps away, his red cape swirling behind him.

Anne feels a chill, pulls her robe more tightly about

her body.

Infantry troops drill outside the King's palace, prac-

ticing muskets and sabers.

Louis watches from a balcony. Richelieu appears, fresh

from his encounter with the Queen. Louis looks up,

greets him with displeasure.

Louis watches from a balcony. Richelieu appears, fresh

from his encounter with the Queen.

Richelieu never allows the mask to slip. Even for an

instant. Louis glances at the throne room, the increasing

number of Cardinal's Guards on duty. They make him feel

uncomfortable. Louis speaks with renewed determination.

Louis can't believe it.

Richelieu, ever prepared, produces a sheaf of papers. No

doubt counterfeit. But Louis has no way of knowing. He

takes the papers into his hands, reacts with sadness.

Louis turns back to the balcony, the soldiers marching

below. His mood glum and lonely. He sighs, moves on to

another matter of business.

Richelieu nods, not the least bit concerned.

Richelieu smiles, his face a mask of innocence.

Louis looks up, wonders. As Richelieu draws him deeper

into his spider's strategems.

Porthos and Aramis ride hard, look back over their

shoulders. They crest the top of a bluff, rein their

horses to a stop. They can afford to rest for a moment.

Their pursuit is at least a mile behind them.

Porthos looks into the near distance, manages a weary

smile.

At the bottom of the hill: a crude ferry lands at the

bank of a swift, choppy river.

The ferry is an open flatboat -- a wooden platform, about

fifteen-by-twenty feet. It travels from one shore to the

other by means of a ferry rope. Transport is slow, the

trip to the other shore takes nearly five minutes.

As Porthos and Aramis arrive, the flatboat is just re-

turning, piloted by its FERRYMAN, a hunched and weather-

beaten gnome. Four passengers wait to be carried across

-- TWO GENTLEMAN CAVALIERS on horseback, and a country

WOMAN and her child. As the flatboat enters its slip,

the two Cavaliers urge their horses on board, rudely

jostling the Woman and her child to the rear.

The Ferryman, an experienced boot-licker, bows and

scrapes to the Cavaliers, collects the coins they toss

to his way.

The Ferryman turns a greedy eye on the Woman and child.

A courtly voice intervenes.

All turn to regard Aramis on horseback, Porthos at his

side. The Woman reacts with grateful surprise. The

Ferryman is outraged, spittle flies as he curses and

protests.

Two two Cavaliers react to the word. The Ferryman does,

too -- into cringing, obedient servant.

Aramis takes Porthos by the shoulder and turns him so

he can see their pursuers pouring over the top of the

hill on their horses.

And with that, Porthos takes the sharp edge of his boom-

erang and brings it down on the dock rope. The rope

splits and the ferryboat lurches away from the dock.

The pursuers charge down the hill and ride to the end of

the dock but they're too late. Porthos and Aramis have

gotten away.

Porthos laughs and taunts the angry pursuers. Aramis

ties scarves around the horses' eyes to blindfold them

for the crossing. Then he turns around and sees what

Aramis is already seeing -- the two Cavaliers watch them

with keen interest.

The First Cavalier smiles, produces a flask.

Porthos produces a bottle from under his cloak.

The Cavaliers are not amused. The first replies in

measured tones, his lips white with fury.

The Cavaliers have already pulled out their swords.

Porthos and Aramis now reach for their own. Porthos

deadpans:

The middle of a river on a rocking flatboat is not the

best place for a duel. But the combatants make the most

of it. Slipping, sliding, and falling. They attack with

everything they've got. The Cavaliers are excellent

swordsmen. And, as if that were not enough, the

Musketeers have an additional disadvantage -- they must

keep the Woman and child clear of the flashing blades.

Porthos drives his opponent about the flatboat with a

devilish grin, chases him between -- and at one point,

over -- blindfolded horses.

Aramis duels with the expected artistry, gradually re-

ducing his opponent to tatters. At one juncture, the

child loses her footing, slides toward the low end of

the flatboat, the deep river beyond. Aramis executes a

neat sidestep, stops the child's desperate progress with

one arm while continuing to do battle with the other.

He returns child to Mother with a grin, continues.

The two Cavaliers are soon vanquished, groaning on the

flatboat deck. Porthos and Aramis meet at the middle,

breathless. Porthos complains:

Aramis indicates the opposite shore as the flatboat

approaches it. There, waiting patiently, swords and

muskets already drawn... is a patrol of Cardinal's

Guards.

Aramis hurries to    his horse, takes off the blindfold.

Porthos grumbles    after, follows suit. They leap atop

their mounts, the    horses slip upon the wet deck as they

guide them to the    edge.

Stalemate. Then, they can't help it, Aramis and Porthos

grin. Life is an adventure, lived to the fullest. They

count...

And with that, as the Woman and child, the Ferryman look

on, Aramis and Porthos guide their horses into the raging

river. The Woman whispers after:

Porthos manages a wink as he floats into the distance.

The Cardinal's Guards react with anger and disbelief.

A wild ride down the ROARING RIVER. Porthos clinging to

his horse for dear life. Aramis keeping an eye on his

fellow Musketeer... and the deep rapids up ahead.

Through twists and turns, walls of white water, huge

boulders, and gyrating whirlpools... Aramis and Porthos

finally reach a quiet pool, a leafy shore beyond. They

lead their horses from the water, step toward dry land...

and see yet another (or perhaps the same) patrol of

Cardinal's Guards. Waiting, swords drawn, for their

arrival.

Porthos looks down at his latest sash -- destroyed like

the others. Aramis draws his saber, mutters.

