OVER BLACK comes the sound of deep HEAVING BREATHS. Moist

FLESH FLAPPING accompaniment. Someone is beating off.

A pause as the someone turns the page of a magazine.

The beating off resumes at a quickened pace. The SQUEAKING of

bed springs joins in.

Another page is turned. Feverish THUMPING until a MALE VOICE

lets out a quiet MOAN.

The breathing gradually slows to normal and lets out a

relieved sigh of finality.

NICK TWISP, 16, stares up at the ceiling. He's glassy eyed

from the exertion...

INT. NICK'S ROOM - DAY

...sprawled on the bed, trousers around his ankles, a well

thumbed issue of Penthouse covers his privates.

Nick pulls up his trousers and leaps off the bed. He pulls

the drawer under his mattress out.

A view of the drawer reveals it to be filled with neatly

filed issues of Penthouse and Hustler. He puts the most

recently utilized magazine in its place.

Nick posing in front of the mirror, pants around his ankles

again. He looks at himself from various angles.

We PAN DOWN, and where Nick's crotch is supposed to be, there

is a hole in the screen leading us to...

LAS VEGAS OF THE BODY

The pulsing neon sign outside the club reads: NICK'S PENIS.

We fly inside where we find a star-studded floor show.

Drunken CONVENTIONEERS make out with STRIPPERS. A LEOPARD

leaps through a burning HOOP on stage.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Nick typing on an obsolete PC.

A view of the books and CDs on his shelf.

Follow the curser on the monitor as he types the words -

STILL A VIRGIN.

He pauses in thought, then continues.

INT. AIRPLANE (35,000 FT) - DAY

WE MOVE down an airplane aisle, past PASSENGERS sleeping and

chatting.

We reach the end of the aisle, where a buxom twenty-

something, JOANIE TWISP serves a beverage.

INT. ESTELLE'S KITCHEN - DAY

Liver frying in a pan. ESTELLE TWISP, 43, cooks and puffs on

a cigarette at the same time.

Nick sits at the kitchen table reading the paper. He watches

with nausea as Estelle piles liver onto his plate.

JERRY, early 40's, saunters in wearing a TRUCKERS DO IT IN

OVERDRIVE shirt and boxers. His gut hangs over the elastic,

but he is completely devoid of an ass.

Jerry absently smacks Estelle's butt. Waddles over to the

breakfast table. He snatches the Funnies from the paper in

Nick's hands.

Jerry gives an asinine chuckle at the cartoon. Nick glares.

EXT. GEORGE TWISP'S HOME - DAY

GEORGE TWISP, 41, scruffy and greying, waters the foliage

outside the house with a high powered hose.

In the drive, Nick slaves over the duty of washing the rims

of his dad's BMW 325i.

Nick glances up and spots LACEY, 20, coming up the drive

toward him in a weensy bikini. Her body has more outcroppings

than the coastline of Albania.

She continues past him and embraces George.

Super:          (Stanfort Institute of Cosmetology)

George and Lacey exchange saliva shamelessly. Nick turns his

attention back to the Beamer.

As the making out becomes heated groping, George's grip on

the hose slackens.

Nick gets blindsided by the jet of water.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - DAY

We're back with Nick as he types on his computer. He looks

down at the tent in his boxers.

He pulls open the drawer again - the pornography collection.

NICK'S POV

of the room shaking, accompanied by his heavy breathing. His

eyes float from the Hustler to the pink walls of his room.

Nick closes his eyes, his right arm moving rhythmically.

BLACKNESS. The masturbation reaches its feverous climax. Then

the long moan and sigh of relief.

And as Frank Sinatra's UNTIL THE REAL THING COMES ALONG

begins, we go to OPENING CREDITS.

INT. ESTELLE'S KITCHEN - DAY

Nick regards Jerry from across the dining room table. There

is the off-screen sound of a cretin slurping Cheerios.

Reveal Jerry reading Sports Illustrated, scratching his balls

with one hand and shoveling in cereal with the other. Estelle

is washing dishes when she spies something out the window.

Jerry looks over his shoulder and they all take a moment to

appreciate the slab-sided Lincoln in the drive.

Jerry smiles with cretin pride. Nick looks to his mother and

disturbingly enough, she seems turned on by his car-owner

savvy.

EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - DAY

Nick stands in the doorway watching as his mother waits for

Jerry to open the passenger door for her.

Jerry fails to notice Estelle waiting and instead just climbs

in and chugs his beer. Estelle appears mildly disappointed

before opening the door herself.

As Jerry pulls out, he tosses his beer bottle in the

direction of the trash can at the end of the drive.

He misses and the bottle shatters on the pavement, but Jerry

drives off anyway.

INT. ESTELLE'S HOME - DAY

ON A TV SCREEN

Nick cycles through TiVo and finds the late night SEX

DOCUMENTARY he recorded.

INT. ESTELLE'S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

From the living room comes the sound of an orgy and the

jingle jangle of a belt buckle.

Then the DING-DONG of the front doorbell.

The jingle jangle pauses and when the doorbell rings a second

time, the orgy gets muted.

Nick enters the kitchen pulling up his trousers.

I/E. ESTELLE'S HOME - MOMENTS LATER

The door is opened to reveal two burly, tattooed SAILORS

standing on the stoop.

Their eyes drift to Nick's mid-section.

Nick follows their eyes to the belt buckle he neglected to

fasten out of haste. He returns his gaze to the sailors as he

wrangles the belt.

The second sailor holds aloft the banana peel sealed in a

plastic bag. Nick glances to drive and regards the smoking

Chevy-Nova with its camouflage paint job.

A THIRD SAILOR is rummaging through the boxes in the open

garage. He finds some spray-paint and shakes the can.

Nick turns back to the sailors on the stoop.

Nick looks one more time to the Chevy as the third sailor

finishes painting the hood with the words: PAY UP OR DIE.

The sailors nod, somewhat perplexed by this kid's demeanor.

As they turn to go and Nick closes the door...

EXT. HILLS ABOVE UC CAMPUS - DAY

In the clearing, a UC JOCK stands behind his ASIAN

GIRLFRIEND, kissing her neck and removing her clothes.

Reveal Nick and his friend LEFTY, 16, belly down in the grass

overlooking the clearing. Lefty watches the copulating couple

with a pair of binoculars.

As if in response, Lefty passes the binoculars off to Nick

and then turns over onto his back and unzips his pants.

As Lefty jerks it, Nick looks with nonchalance...

THROUGH THE BINOCULARS

The couple hump in the grass, her legs in the air.

Nick gives a dubious glance in Lefty's direction.

INT. ESTELLE'S KITCHEN - DAY

Jerry hollers from the kitchen where Estelle gapes out the

window. Nick calmly joins them from upstairs.

She points out the window and they all take in the Chevy and

the sailors' oh-so-subtle note on the hood.

Jerry seeths inwardly at Nick's mock innocence.

And on cue comes the ring of the doorbell and the

simultaneous pounding of angry Navy fists on the back door.

They peer out the window and find the fleet on the front

steps.

Jerry first starts to dart one way and then another,

searching for a hiding space as he hisses.

And then the front door gets kicked open and a mob of sailors

pour in. Jerry flees. A HANDHELD CAM chase as he heads for

the back and is cut off by the sailors coming in.

Jerry bolts up the stairs.

INT. ESTELLE'S HOME - CONTINUOUS

They manage to grab Jerry by the legs and haul him down the

stairs. Jerry loses his grasp step by step, crying with a

sound not unlike E.T. when the flashlight hit him in the

cornfield.

The two big guys with bad haircuts hold Jerry off the ground

while the earnstwhile Chevy owner goes through his pockets.

One of the sailors pokes Jerry in the gut hard and he

whimpers.

Nick raises his hands. "You don't have to tell me twice."

And with that they release him and Jerry crumples to the

floor like an abandoned marionette.

INT. ESTELLE'S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

The three of them watch the fleet pile into a Navy van that

reads FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY. The moment they pull out, Jerry

dusts himself off and puts on a pretense of being unfazed.

Nick rolls his eyes.

Jerry takes a seat at the kitchen table and adopts The

Thinker pose. He strokes his chin as Nick and Estelle await

his brilliant solution with breathless anticipation.

I/E. LINCOLN - DAY

Jerry's got on a hat made from Coors beer cans. He's behind

the wheel of his Lincoln convertible.

Estelle dumps in the cooking gear and closes the trunk. Her

halter top looks like an advertisement for Droop City. Nick's

in the back. Estelle waves at the neighbors like she's Miss

Corn Dog of 1954.

She hops up front with Jerry. He fires up the Lincoln and the

radio roars to life with HILLBILLY MUSIC.

As they pull out, Jerry tosses his beer bottle at the garbage

can at the end of the drive and it once again misses and

shatters on the street behind them.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The Lincoln makes it's way upstate, and dips into the mist

covered hills of Ukiah.

EXT. RESTLESS AXLES TRAILER PARK - DAY

They've pulled to a stop. Estelle stares in horror.

In the back, Nick removes his sunglasses to regard the long,

green, turd of a trailer. Some concrete dwarves in the grass.

A dusty canvas awning over a small cement patio. A decrepit

picket fence with a sign that reads: MY GREEN HAVEN.

Estelle looks as if she's about to cry. Jerry puts his arm

around her.

INT. MY GREEN HAVEN - NIGHT

Substitute cluttered for cute. The three of them are crammed

around a dining surface as accommodating as an airplane tray

table. 3-D religious art hangs on the wall above them.

Jerry pushes out and disappears into the back. Nick watches

him with loathing. Estelle smiles apologetically.

Her smile fades.

And with that she excuses herself, leaving Nick to ponder.

INT. MY GREEN HAVEN - LATER

Nick washes dishes in the toilet-like sink. The trailer

shakes from the two adults flogging the mattress in the back.

EXT. RESTLESS AXLES TRAILER PARK - DAY

An old crone, MRS. SAUNDERS, makes her way up the walk. She

gets to the door of My Green Haven and bangs on the screen.

INT. MY GREEN HAVEN - DAY

Nick sleeps on a pull out cot. He bolts upright at the

banging, his hair going in all directions.

Nick glances down at the morning wood elevating his boxers.

Mrs. Saunders narrows her eyes at Nick through the screen

door and takes off.

EXT. MY GREEN HAVEN - DAY

Nick steps out of the trailer in a bathrobe, toiletries in

one hand, towel in the other. He heads off down the wooded

path.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

The serene melodies of rousing HYMNS float from the well-

attended congregation in the meeting hall.

WE TRACK across the trees as Nick makes his way down the

path. He slows to observe the sun coming through the canopy

overhead. He glances off the path and comes to a sudden stop.

A grape arbor flanked by Corinthian columns set against the

blue of Clear Lake. A chestnut haired SHEENI SAUNDERS stands

facing the water, her head tilted down to read the book in

her hands. The wind coming off the lake blows her dress just

enough to give a hint of the shapely thighs underneath.

Light falls in shafts through the latticework of the arbor

like something out of a Francois Boucher painting.

Super:                (Thundering Erection)

Sheeni glances up from her book and looks over her shoulder

at him. Nick just stares. She gives an amused smile, almost

flirtatious. Nick grins back.

Nick looks down. He pulls the robe closed, scowls, and goes

into a flustered march down the path.

INT. PUBLIC REST ROOM - DAY

An austere   cement shed with three dripping shower heads and

no privacy   walls. Nick lathers up under the spray. Jerry

appears in   the foreground and removes his robe. He goes to

the shower   head next to Nick and turns it on.

Nick reacts to Jerry and hastily tries to resume rinsing

himself off. Jerry gurgles water and spits. He starts

warbling rock lyrics.

EXT. MY GREEN HAVEN - DAY

Nick comes up the path and stops short at the picket fence.

Estelle and Sheeni squat on the patio steps.

Nick regards Sheeni and her mischievous smirk.

EXT. RESTLESS AXLES TRAILER PARK - DAY

A dusty road. Nick totes a watermelon and a paper bag. He

watches as Sheeni works on a Popsicle. Full lips that cry out

to be kissed.

As they pass the meeting hall there comes a surge of HYMNS in

chorus.

Sheeni stops. She looks at Nick intently.

She resumes walking. Nick follows her with confusion.

EXT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - DAY

They regard the two story Pacemaker mobile home.

Sheeni relieves him of the watermelon.

She trudges down the slate path to the home.

She turns around. Gives a little smirk.

INT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - DAY

A lot more space than My Green Haven. Dark paneling and

somewhat more tasteful religious art.

Nick watches her bound up the stairs.

He wanders into the musty living area. Moves down the mantel

examining the trinkets. Stops to regard the reproduction of

Massaccio's Expulsion of Adam and Eve from Eden on the wall.

He scrutinizes the image, his eyes falling to the privates of

Adam and Eve.

Nick spins around to see MR. SAUNDERS reclining in his

armchair. He is an immense, florid-faced, verdant eye-browed

ogre in a rumpled blue suit.

Sheeni descends the stairs. Jean cut-offs over a knockout

yellow swimsuit that shows off her flowing nubility.

Mr. Saunders grumbles. Sheeni grabs up a straw beach bag and

pushes Nick out the door.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

Sheeni and Nick lay on their backs on the blue beach blanket,

reading their respective books. Nick watches her turning

pages and making notes in the margins. She hands him her

tanning lotion.

She rolls over onto her stomach, exposing her exquisite back.

Nick straddles her, hands shaking as he smooths sweet oils

into her tanned flesh.

Flashing super:          Thundering Erection

Nick's hands freeze.

She rolls over onto her back, her young breasts straining up

against the yellow spandex.

He starts in on her flawless legs, gliding on the oil all the

way within a finger's reach of her sweet apex.

With each daring pass, he comes closer to that final split.

Finally the hand swerves too late, and lightly grazes the

softly yielding vee.

Nick moves up, lubricating her arms, shoulders and neck. He

smooths the oil on the soft undulating foothills.

She rolls back onto her stomach with finality and goes back

to her book. Nick hovers above her a moment, then painfully

returns to his own reading.

EXT. RESTLESS AXLES TRAILER PARK - DAY

They make their way down the path. Nick totes the beach bag.

Nick nods, and for a beat they trek on in silence. He glances

down at her hand and fumbles for it with his own.

Nick becomes sickeningly pale.

They stop at the gate to the Saunders' home.

She takes a dramatic pause.

She gives a slightly amused smile at Nick's blank expression.

INT. MY GREEN HAVEN - NIGHT

TIME LAPSE of Nick thrashing about in bed. During this

montage there is the constant ticking of a clock.

Nick flipping through a Penthouse under the covers.

EXT. MY GREEN HAVEN - NIGHT

A light comes on in the window.

INT. MY GREEN HAVEN - DAY

Nick at the dining table, writing a note.

EXT. MY GREEN HAVEN - NIGHT

Nick paces about back and forth in the yard.

INT. MY GREEN HAVEN - NIGHT

Nick is in bed jerking off. The trailer shakes despite his

best efforts.

INT. PUBLIC REST ROOM - DAY

Nick in the shower going to town on his T.E.

INT. MY GREEN HAVEN - DAY

Nick rolls over on the cot and looks up with the gaze of a

manic insomniac.

INT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - DAY

The door opens to reveal Nick standing outside in shorts, an

I'M SINGLE, LET'S MINGLE shirt, and tennis shoes. Sheeni

stands in the door. Sleep-fogged eyes.

She closes the door.

Super:     One hour fifty seven minutes later

A knock on the door. Sheeni opens it to reveal... Nick,

dressed the same. Sheeni wears Khakis, red bandanna

neckerchief, and an Australian bush hat. She looks like the

world's most desirable Girl Scout. She examines Nick's

attire.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Sheeni leads the way up hill. Nick clutches his cramped

stomach with one hand, his journal in the other.

He watches the rhythmic movements of her ass through her

hiking shorts.

EXT. BLUFF OVER CLEAR LAKE - DAY

Nick and Sheeni peer over the edge of the cliff. The waters

of Clear Lake churn below.

Sheeni backs away. Nick stays, staring over the edge.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Nick's eyes roll back as he relieves himself against a tree.

He shakes off the last of it and zips up.

EXT. BLUFF OVER CLEAR LAKE - LATER

He emerges from the woods only to find Sheeni reading his

journal. She looks up at his and smiles. The brazen sneak

isn't even embarrassed.

Nick snatches the journal out of her hands.

Nick can only stare at her sprawled out on her back as if

posing for a centerfold.

A beat as he is lost in the ocean of her gaze before he

manages to gain his senses.

She hands it over. Nick squints at the writing.

Nick leaps on top of her, grabbing her thin wrists. She

squeals and giggles.

They wrestle, perspiring, squirming bodies brushing together.

Flashing super:        Thundering Erection

They pause. He's got her arms pinned. She's on her back. He

hovers above her.

Nick considers her expression.

A beat. She looks at him expectantly. Nick is at a loss.

Nick tentatively approaches her luscious mouth. Their noses

dodge successfully and their lips meet.

After a long moment, they break it off. Staring into each

other's eyes. Sheeni jumps up.

Nick lays in the grass a moment, watching after her.

EXT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - DAY

Nick walks Sheeni to the gate. She turns around to face him.

Nick grins with excitement.

INT. MY GREEN HAVEN - NIGHT

Nick dines at the tray table with Jerry and Estelle.

Jerry chuckles. Nick stares at him, perhaps resolving to

murder the trucker in his sleep.

INT. MY GREEN HAVEN - LATER

Nick lies below us on the cot, unable to sleep with the

anticipation of the imminent loss of his virginity.

EXT. MY GREEN HAVEN - NIGHT/DAY

Another perfect California summer dawn, a pale moon lingering

in the blue morning sky. Nick emerges from My Green Haven in

his robe. He starts off down the path.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

The trailer park is relatively silent save for birds and the

distant sound of dogs barking.

EXT. PUBLIC REST ROOM - DAY

Nick approaches the shower building. As he nears, the sound

of water running can be heard from the ladies' side.

INT. PUBLIC REST ROOM (WOMEN'S SIDE) - DAY

The women's side has real stalls and privacy doors. Nick

spots the chamber at the end where Sheeni's naked form

showers, obscured by tacky stained glass.

He kicks off his slippers. Hangs his robe on a hook.

He approaches the stall.

Flashing super:       Thundering Erection

He opens the shower door and steps into the steamy spray.

He embraces her. Pendulous breasts, sagging skin, a patch of

white hair under a drooping belly, wrinkles... It's Mrs.

Saunders! She looks up startled.

Nick lets out a horrible woman-like scream. Mrs. Saunders

starts screaming too, the sound of a pig being slaughtered.

She hurls a bar of soap.

The bar strikes Nick upside the head and he loses his footing

on the slippery tile. He goes down, taking Mrs. Saunders with

him. They wrangle in the mist as Nick tries to escape.

Suddenly the door opens. It's Sheeni in her robe. She reaches

out and pulls Nick up.

Still wearing her robe, she dives into the spray to save her

mother. Nick grabs his robe and retreats.

INT. CAFE - DAY

Nick slouches in a corner of the shop, his hands trembling as

he brings his coffee to his lips. He hears the door open and

looks up, but instead of the cops finds Sheeni. She joins him

at the table.

Nick nods thankfully.

Nick nods glumly. Clearly a devastating thought.

INT. LINCOLN (MOVING) - DAY

Sheeni's in back with Nick, but doesn't seem to mind the wind

tunnel. She has a scarf tied around her chestnut locks.

Nick looks down as she casually rests a hand on the inside of

his thigh.

As they round a curve at 60, she yanks Nick's sunglasses off

and tosses them over her shoulder into the lake.

EXT. GEEZER'S MANOR - DAY

Estelle, Jerry, Nick, and a toothless old GEEZER whose gut

rivals Jerry's, all stare at a rusty RV that looks like it

might not make the trip back.

In the background, Sheeni pets a goat in the dusty yard.

The geezer ponders the bad news. Estelle shakes her head and

goes inside the RV to inspect.

Sheeni lets out a squeal of delight. They all turn their

attention to where she has discovered a box full of squirming

PUPPIES.

She brings one of them over.

She shows him the ugly little pug. Short droopy ears, a tiny,

batlike face.

Sheeni turns to Nick pleadingly. Nick fishes through his

wallet.

She plants a kiss on his lips and promptly turns her

attention to the dog, who licks her face affectionately. Nick

looks on with appropriate jealousy.

The geezer looks to Nick with an expression of "I stand

corrected." Nick returns with a nod that says "You have no

idea."

INT. LINCOLN (MOVING) - DAY

The Lincoln now tows the rusty RV behind it. Nick watches

Sheeni continue to fawn over Albert.

INT. CAFE - DAY

Nick and Sheeni dine over coffee and a plate of donuts. Nick

watches her play with Albert in her lap.

Sheeni releases Albert and the mutt paws at her legs. Her

eyes well up with tears, a few theatrical sniffles.

Nick tries to hide his hurt. Picks up the paper with

annoyance.

Sheeni ponders this.

A beat. Sheeni looks pensive. It fades to amusement.

Nick lifts his eyebrows. Now we're getting somewhere!

Nick looks displeased that his sarcasm didn't register.

EXT. MY GREEN HAVEN - DAY

Jerry hitches the trailer to the back of the Lincoln. Estelle

loads up the trunk.

Nick watches Sheeni kiss Albert. He looks less than enthused

at the thought of sloppy-seconds. Finally Sheeni hands Nick

the dog.

Nick and Sheeni stand there an awkward beat. Sheeni leans in

and gives him a peck on the cheek.

She smiles. They're the sexiest words Nick's ever heard.

He grabs her and kisses her deeply.

Jerry HONKS the horn and they break off.

INT. LINCOLN - DAY

Nick gets into the back seat with Albert. The dog whimpers.

Sheeni stands off to the side, waving at them both.

He fires up the Lincoln and they kick up dust. Albert

slobbers all over Nick.

Nick sets him down and watches Sheeni in the side-mirror,

waving in the road.

Sheeni watches the Lincoln and trailer recede toward the

horizon.

EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - DAY

The Lincoln and RV slow to a stop outside the home.

I/E. LINCOLN - DAY

They all stare at the empty space where the Chevy-Nova used

to be. Jerry gets a smirk of satisfaction.

EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - DAY

Jerry backs the RV into the drive as Nick helps his mother

with her belongings and they enter the house. The RV scrapes

its way through a few overhanging tree branches before Jerry

decides it's parked.

There comes a woman's scream from inside the house.

INT. ESTELLE'S LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Jerry joins Nick and Estelle in the doorway. There in the

living room, surrounded by all the furniture pushed neatly

against the walls, is Jerry's camouflaged Chevy.

Jerry pops the hood and lets out a whistle.

Jerry slams down the hood.

EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - DAY

A cab pulls up in front of the house and Nick's sister,

Joanie gets out of the back. She tips the driver, and as she

crosses the front yard, gawks at the RV sitting in the drive.

INT. ESTELLE'S HOME - HALLWAY - DAY

Nick's door is ajar. Nick pulls up his trousers and comes

into the hall. He listens to the voices downstairs.

STAIRS - CONTINUOUS

He comes down the first few steps and is met with the sight

of his mother and sister staring up at him.

Nick and Joanie meet eyes. She lifts a quizzical eyebrow.

INT. ESTELLE'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Albert chews on Jerry's sock under the table.

The family dines over take-out fried chicken. Jerry kicks

Albert and the puppy goes tumbling across the floor.

Jerry contemplates smacking Nick upside the head, but decides

against it when he discerns Estelle is probably in her son's

corner.

Estelle takes a deep breath and tries to let the matter rest.

Nick puffs out his chest. Joanie looks down at her boob-job.

Nick rolls his eyes.

Jerry kicks the dog away from his sock. Albert growls and

prepares for another charge.

Jerry lurches backward in the chair and lands on the floor,

revealing that Albert's teeth have a firm grasp on Jerry's

sack. The dog shakes the scrotum in his jaws.

He tries to swipe Albert with his beer bottle, but the dog

retreats into the house, leaving Jerry rolling around on the

floor.

Joanie and Nick exchange a smile. The phone rings. Estelle

gets up to answer it.

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

Nick stoops to secure the leash around the piping. He regards

the little pug. Albert WHIMPERS and cocks his head.

The door at the top of the stairs opens and Estelle descends

the first few steps.

In Nick's eyes the fear of a sentence worse than death.

INT. ESTELLE'S HOME - HALLWAY - DAY

Morning comes through the drapes. The phone on the side table

is ringing. Nick emerges from his room and picks it up.

Nick looks around, opens the door to the linen closet and

darts inside.

INT. CLOSET - CONTINUOUS

BLACKNESS. Then Nick pulls the cord and the naked bulb kicks

on.

INT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - DAY

Sheeni relaxes on a love seat, cradling the phone with her

shoulder as she eats grapes from a bowl. WE INTERCUT.

Nick furrows his brow with skepticism.

CLOSE ON her GLOSSY LIPS.

A glint of resolve in Nick's eyes.

And in pre-lap comes the DING DONG of the doorbell.

INT. ESTELLE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Joanie and Nick sit in the Chevy Nova watching Rebel Without

a Cause through the windshield.

Estelle enters the living room with tears streaming down her

face and a police officer, LANCE WESCOTT, 45, with a flattop,

watery red eyes, and assorted guns, flashlights, and billy

clubs.

After a beat, Nick rolls down the window.

Estelle sobs, but isn't joined by her children. She turns to

Lance.

Beat. Nick looks to Joanie. They both look to their mother.

She bursts into tears and collapses into Officer Lance

Wescott's arms.

Nick watches his mother sobbing against the cop's chest for a

beat before he rolls up the window and he and Joanie resume

watching the movie.

Estelle's cries of despair become...

INT. NICK'S ROOM - NIGHT

....the cries of ecstasy coming through the wall along with

the repeated exclamation of Lance's name.

Nick rolls over in bed. Bloodshot eyes. He hauls himself out

of bed.

INT. BATHRROOM - NIGHT

He stands in front of the mirror and leans in.

PUSH IN on his reflection, as a moustache appears. Then a

beret and black and white striped shirt. Then a cigarette

holder and Thompson machine-gun. And FRANCOIS is born.

Francois cocks the machine-gun.

...and cojone grandes!            ...and cojone grandes!

INT. BATHRROOM - DAY

Nick opens the door. Lance and Estelle shower behind the

frosted glass.

He slams the door.

INT. BASEMENT - DAY

Nick comes down the stairs. He reaches the water heater and

starts spinning the knob.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

The forms of Estelle and Lance in the shower can be made out.

They both start screaming as they are blasted with cold

water. The blobs of their bodies press up against the glass.

INT. BASEMENT - DAY

Albert looks up at Nick and lets out a BARK. Nick smiles and

bends down to undo his leash.

INT. ESTELLE'S HOME - HALLWAY -DAY

Lance bursts from the bathroom in his boxers, looking for

blood. He hears the sound of paws climbing the stairs. Albert

comes hurtling around he corner, almost losing his footing on

the hardwood floor.

ALBERT'S POV

as we lunge at Lance's crotch.

EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - DAY

A BLOODCURDLING SCREAM rises up from the home.

INT. ESTELLE'S KITCHEN - DAY

Estelle hands Lance an ice-pack and he applies it to his

injury. Nick wanders in and takes his seat at the table.

Lance looks at him, seething inwardly. He glances to Estelle.

Lance lunges across the table.

Nick flings down his napkin and heads for the front door.

The screen door slams behind him.

INT. GARAGE - DAY

The garage door rattles upward, illuminating the cardboard

box of paint supplies. Nick bends down and picks up a can of

aerosol spray-paint. He shakes it.

EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - DAY

Nick sprays the trailer in wide sweeping motions.

EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - EVENING

Joanie and Nick sun bathe in the lawn chairs. Estelle stands

over them.

Estelle gestures to the trailer, which we can see has been

defaced with the words GOD'S PERFECT ASSHOLE.

She holds up a semi-nude Polaroid of Lacey.

Estelle stares at the photo, face contorted by revulsion and

envy.

Super:             (True)

Super:           (Not true)

Super:       (True; believe it or not)

At this point Estelle has turned bright red.

She stalks off. Joanie glances over at Nick with amusement.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - DAY

A knock on the door. Lefty enters the room and Nick pulls the

headphones off his ears.

Lefty unzips his backpack and produces a large hardbound

volume titled Lovemaking for Advanced Gourmets.

Lefty flops down on the sofa next to Nick and the two of them

flip through the manual.

They regard the illustrated figures of men and women in

various states of foreplay.

Nick and Lefty get to their feet and stand opposite each

other like a pair of duelists. They simultaneously undo their

belts and pull their pants and underwear to their feet.

They straighten. Lefty's eyes fall to Nick's crotch. He gets

a hint of concern in his expression.

Nick stares at Lefty's, tilting his head to compensate for

the curvature.

The door behind them opens and Estelle appears toting Nick's

lunch. She lets out a scream. The boys turn to face her,

pants around their ankles.

She hurls the tray of food at them. Lefty bolts. Nick hastily

tries to pull up his pants as his mother chases him around

the room, grabbing up objects and hurling them his way.

INT. ESTELLE'S HOME - HALLWAY - DAY

Lefty emerges from the room and takes off.

Nick bursts from the room, desperately trying to buckle his

pants. Estelle is hot on his heels, wielding the hardbound

sex manual as they round the bannister.

She catches up to Nick at the top of the stairs and cracks

him upside the head.

He loses his balance and goes tumbling down the staircase,

letting out a moan that stutters as his head hits each step.

He comes crashing into the foyer, landing on the slate.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - EVENING

Nick watches out the window.

Estelle can be seen animatedly describing the events to

LEFTY'S PARENTS. Lefty glances up at Nick and gives a pained

expression.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - LATER

Nick lays on his belly reading No Exit. He looks up when he

hears the sound of footsteps in the hall. Shadows appear

beneath the crack in the door.

Estelle opens the door and looks down at him.

She looks at him dubiously and hands out the phone.

Nick takes the phone from her hands and she closes the door.

INT. GEORGE TWISP'S HOME - NIGHT

George sprawls on the couch, cradling the phone with one

hand, and holding a beer on his stomach with the other. WE

INTERCUT.

He hangs up the phone.

EXT. OAKLAND PUBLIC SCHOOL - DAY

Intimidating PUNK MUSIC. School bus doors fold open and Nick

steps off. The MUSIC pounds from the boom box resting on the

hood of the Mustang GT where a pack of SKINHEADS follow Nick

with their eyes.

Nick walks past them, glancing over at the assembly of ASIAN

GANGSTERS glaring at him from their perch on the wall.

INT. OAKLAND PUBLIC SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

Nick pushes past a fight where two kids throw each other

against the lockers. He smiles at a pair of PUNK ROCK GIRLS.

One of them flips him off. Nick heads into...

INT. BOYS ROOM - DAY

And as Nick steps into the bathroom, we follow his eyes...

SWISH TO... a CRIP selling a bag of dope to a GOTH FRESHMAN.

SWISH TO... a LATIN KING vandalizing the wall with the words

LATIN KINGS WERE HERE.

SWISH TO... a pack of WIGGERS as one of them gives the others

a butterfly knife show-and-tell.

INT. OAKLAND PUBLIC SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

WE DRIFT down the corridor where Nick dials at a pay phone.

EXT. OAKLAND - DAY

Nick walks Albert down the sidewalk. Lefty crosses the street

to him and they walk together.

Albert squats to poop in someone's yard. The boys pause to

wait for him.

Albert finishes his business and they resume walking.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - DAY

Nick hunches over his desk doing homework, headphones over

his ears. Estelle knocks and enters. Nick pulls the

headphones down around his neck.

She slams the door.

EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - DAY

Nick places two full cannisters of gasoline into the trunk of

the Lincoln.

Nick's behind the wheel, backing up the car.

The hitch ball grinds under the trailer socket.

Nick fires up the V-8 engine and shifts into drive, pulling

forward. He cuts across the lawn.

The trailer clips the corner of the house. Chunks of stucco

fall and the galvanized downspout shudders and writhes,

collapsing the long rain gutter running across the front of

the home.

Nick guns it, and with a lurch the trailer splinters free. He

dodges the birch tree, but plows over the smaller Asian pear.

The Lincoln bounces the curb and catapults into the street,

the trailer weaving back and forth, smashing parked cars.

INT. LINCOLN (MOVING) - DAY

Nick cruises along sedately. He plays with the radio and

settles on the Sex Pistols.

He looks up just in time to see the red light and slams on

the brakes, nearly jack-knifing the trailer.

The light turns green and the car lumbers up the long hill.

EXT. BERKELEY - DAY

Nick hits the bump in the road right before the stop sign.

The car bottoms out. The trailer bounces up, coming

unhitched.

I/E. LINCOLN (MOVING) - DAY

Nick hits the gas and the Lincoln suddenly surges forward,

released from the great weight.

Nick smiles. Behind him, through the rear window, the trailer

can be seen receding into the distance. He glances into the

mirror and spots the trailer plunging down the hill.

Then he crashes into the Fiat parked in front of him at the

intersection. The gas tank on the Fiat cracks, spurting fuel

onto the pavement.

EXT. BERKELEY - DAY

Nick leaps from the Lincoln and watches open-mouthed as the

vehicular ballet unfolds.

Down the hill - the speeding trailer sideswipes a delivery

van and goes into a spin. The BOHEMIANS sipping espresso at

the outdoor cafe look up to see the words GOD'S PERFECT

ASSHOLE bearing down on them.

The delivery van veers out of control. The Bohemians scatter.

The truck runs over a fire hydrant and smashes its way

through the patio furniture and into the cafe.

A geyser of water plumes where the hydrant once stood.

The trailer resumes its downward plunge toward the busy cross

street below.

KWOMP! Nick turns to see the still-restive Lincoln part from

the Fiat and begin to roll down the hill after its partner.

The DRIVER OF THE FIAT bolts after the accelerating Lincoln,

but as he realizes the futility, slows to a jog.

The driver turns to see he forgot to set his own brake, and

desperately rolls out of the way of the Fiat.

MOTORISTS slam on their brakes as the speeding trailer

crosses four lanes of traffic. It jumps the curb crashing

into the plate glass window of a gourmet sausage shop.

A cop car lights up and speeds into the intersection, just in

time to get clipped by the Lincoln.

The cop car goes into a tail spin, smashing into a chicken

transport. The flock of feathered inmates fly for freedom.

The Lincoln continues to generate momentum on its slalom run,

thundering past the stopped cars and into the wrecked

building like a runaway express train.

The gas cannisters in the trunk ignite and the sausage shop

explodes, the trailer's two propane tanks going off like

bombs.

The Fiat comes flying into the flaming mess and blasts apart,

sending shards of metal and sausage links to go raining down

on the spectators.

The blaze lights the trail of gasoline left by the broken

fuel tank and a stream of liquid fire races up the hill,

ending at Nick's feet.

Nick takes a moment to watch in horror as dark plumes of

smoke billow into the sky, the geyser of water, the storm of

dazed chickens. He turns around and does his best to

inconspicuously walk OUT OF FRAME.

INT. ESTELLE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

WE FOLLOW Nick as he comes through the front door and is met

with the sight of his mother and Lance staring at him from

the kitchen table.

The Berkeley fire rages on the television.

Lance flips through his notebook and reads.

Nick glances down at the lettering on his shirt. Oops.

Estelle bursts into tears.

Lance takes Estelle in his arms and smirks at Nick.

He gives her ass a playful squeeze. She lets out a giggle.

Nick suddenly brightens.

She snatches up the phone and dials. George's groggy voice

can be heard answering. Estelle screams into the phone.

Lance gives Nick another smirk.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nick let's out a yelp of pain as Lance brings a broken tree

limb against his bare bottom. WHACK! WHACK! WHACK!

With the final blow the tree limb cracks in half. Nick looks

over his shoulder.

Lance looks around the room. Picks up an umbrella and

considers it in his hand. Nick hangs his head.

EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - NIGHT

We find Nick waiting in the drive with a pile of suitcases

beside him.

Nick finds Lefty lurking in the shrubs that divide his

mother's lawn from the neighbor's. He limps to his friend.

A pair of headlights swing into the drive and Lefty ducks out

of sight. The headlights turn out to belong to George Twisp's

BMW.

The driver's side window rolls down to reveal Nick's dad.

Lacey leans over George's seat to wave at Nick through the

window and show him some of her cleavage.

The trunk pops open.

I/E. BMW 325I (MOVING) - NIGHT

Nick is in the back, crowded in by his belongings and Albert.

They ride in tense silence until they pass the sight of the

fire, where FIRE FIGHTERS sift through the ash.

Lacey turns to look at Nick over the seat. They share a

smile.

EXT. UKIAH - ESTABLISHING - DAY

Morning peers over the distant hills.

INT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - DAY

The BMW pulls into the drive of the house - a plywood

rectangle perched on cement blocks. Aluminum windows. A swamp

cooler on the shallow-pitched roof. They all emerge from the

car.

Nick watches longingly as George leads Lacey into the home.

As he places his hand on Lacey's ass, he looks back over his

shoulder and throws a smug look in Nick's direction.

EXT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - DAY

Nick reaches the door and gently knocks. But it's Sheeni's

ogre of a father who answers the door and stares at Nick

sternly.

The ogre snorts in condescending amusement.

And with that, Mr. Saunders slams the door so hard in Nick's

face that the entire two story mobile home rocks back and

forth.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Nick makes his way past the arbor, crestfallen. Sheeni

emerges from the shadows in a hooded sweatshirt over a

lavender dress.

Nick lights up at the sight of her and they embrace. They

kiss passionately. He works his way to her neck and starts to

reach under the sweatshirt.

Sheeni's expression indicates that she is touched, but it

turns to troubled.

Sheeni takes a step back at the notion.

She takes another step back.

Nick nods glumly and Sheeni seems overcome with remorse.

Nick lifts his gaze with renewed determination.

Nick just blinks blankly.

She pulls her hood over her head. Nick watches wistfully as

she slips away into the forest.

INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY

Two WRESTLERS slam down onto the mat below us.

WE TRACK down the row of other students, starting with a

THREE HUNDRED POUND BEHEMOTH. The row seems to descend in

weight class, until we reach Nick at the very end.

Nick does his best to not be pinned by DWAYNE CRAMPTON, who

out-weighs him by at least 40 pounds.

INT. BOYS SHOWER ROOM - DAY

Nick rinses off. Dwayne steps up to the shower head next to

his. Nick glances his way and quickly recoils at the

repelling landscape of rolling pink flab.

Nick turns off his shower and slinks away.

EXT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - DAY

Nick comes up the dusty road toting his backpack.

On the porch of the Saunders' home, a handsome but somewhat

unkempt PAUL SAUNDERS, mid-twenties, blows cool jazz on a

beat-up trumpet.

Nick comes up the path to meet him.

Paul begins rolling a joint.

Paul hands the joint out to Nick. He regards it dubiously.

INT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - DAY

An empty hallway. PSYCHEDELIC SOUND plays.

Nick comes around the corner, literally floating down the

hall. He breaststrokes through the air toward us.

INT. GEORGE AND LACEY'S ROOM - DAY

He passes just under the door frame and comes down, feet

touching carpet. He looks into the mirror and finds Francois

lounging on the bed behind him.

Nick shrugs and opens the top dresser drawer, revealing

Lacey's lingerie.

Nick starts dancing, doing a strip tease for himself. WE PAN

AROUND the room, and when we reach Nick again, he's wearing

nothing but a pair of Lacey's thongs.

He models in front of the mirror, regarding his bulging T.E.

He removes a C-cup bra and holds it high. He uses the elastic

straps to fasten the bra onto his head.

He starts dancing up a storm to the cheesy Vengaboys

rendition of BRAZIL in his head. Waving arms. Bicycling leg

movements.

As he backs up we can see that George is watching him from

the doorway, a Safeway bag in his arms. Lacey peers over his

shoulder. The MUSIC halts abruptly.

Nick gives a startled jump.

INT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - NIGHT

Nick sits at the table, considerably more clothed and sober.

George works on a jug of zin.

Nick nods. The front door opens and MRS. CRAMPTON enters with

Safeway bags of her own. Dwayne follows close behind her.

Albert barks and jumps at Dwayne's feet.

Nick looks to his father in horror as Dwayne goes chasing

after the dog.

Nick leans back and glares in silent protest as everyone

takes their seats at the table.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nick tries to shut out the sound of Dwayne getting into the

creaky bed behind him.

A knock at the door. Lacey enters.

Nick sits up in bed to receive the letter. As Lacey leaves,

he tears through the wax seal and unfolds its contents.

EXT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - DAY

Nick emerges from the home. He makes his way down the road.

EXT. MY GREEN HAVEN - DAY

He stops at the familiar sight of My Green Haven. He gets an

amused smile and sighs with nostalgia.

The front door of the trailer opens and Lefty emerges. Nick

furrows his brow in confusion as Lefty locks the door and

comes down the path.

Lefty joins Nick in his walk down the road.

INT. CAFETERIA - DAY

A rowdy cafeteria. Lefty and Nick dine in the corner. Nick

has an open French textbook as he tries to decipher Sheeni's

letter. An Indian boy, VIJAY JOSHI, 16, makes his way to

them.

Vijay sits and shakes their hands.

Nick narrows his eyes.

Nick hands over the letter and Vijay starts reading it

silently. He chuckles as he reads and Nick squints his eyes

at him in annoyance.

Vijay picks up on it, clears his throat and reads aloud.

INT. SHEENI'S DORM ROOM - SUNSET

In Nick's imagination, Sheeni puts pen to paper at her desk

which affords a view of the sun setting on the ocean.

INT. GIRL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Sheeni slips into a nightgown as other GIRLS walk around

scantily clad behind her.

INT. ECOLE DES ARTS ET LITTERATURE - HALLWAY - DAY

Sheeni chats up a gathering of HANDSOME BOYS in the hall.

They regard her lustfully.

INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY

HEATHER, a slender giantess, poses with the other members of

the BASKETBALL TEAM for a yearbook photo.

INT. SHEENI'S DORM ROOM - NIGHT

TAGGARTY, short dark hair, intense green eyes, Manhattan

sophistication cloaked in fragile ripeness, snaps a Polaroid

of a sleepy BOY.

Taggarty tacks the picture to a wall covered with Polaroids.

She writes the boy's grade (C-) beneath his image.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

The distant figure on the windsurf board can only be Trent.

The figure falls into the surf and the crowd of watching

BIKINI-CLAD GIRLS gasp in horror.

INT. CAFETERIA - DAY

Vijay sets down the letter. Nick waits a beat, staring in

disbelief.

Vijay picks up the letter again.

THREE CUTS. The JINGLE as Nick removes his Dad's keys from

the bureau. The trunk SLAMMING closed with the sleeping bags

inside. The ROAR of the engine as Vijay's hand turns the key

in the ignition.

I/E. BMW 325I (MOVING) - DAY

As Vijay drives, Lefty holds up a road map in the back seat.

Nick places a CD in the stereo and TAKE FIVE fills the car.

Vijay puts in his own CD and Ravi Shankar's TARANA blasts

from the speakers.

Nick gives Vijay a grin of approval. MUSIC PLAYS OVER...

EXT. REDWOOD FORESTS - DAY

WE FLY through the forest to keep up with the Beamer.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO - DAY

The BMW passes cars on the Golden Gate Bridge.

EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - DAY

The Beamer navigates the winding curves of the highway where

green hills meet the Pacific Ocean.

EXT. ECOLE DES ARTS ET LITTERATURE - DUSK

The car pulls to a stop in the parking lot, the school

looming beyond, slightly obfuscated by a light drizzle. The

music cuts out with the engine.

EXT. ECOLE DES ARTS ET LITTERATURE - GROUNDS - DUSK

The grouping of BOYS part as we move through them. Finally,

we reach the center of their attention...

Sheeni, Taggarty, and Heather standing together in their

coats.

Nick, Vijay, and Lefty are noticeably shorter than the older

boys around them.

Sheeni glances over at the disapproving MATRON. She leans in

close.

Nick nods in understanding.

INT. GIRLS' DORM - HALLWAY - NIGHT

An empty hall. The SNEAKY STRINGS of NIGHT ON BALD MOUNTAIN.

Sheeni rounds the corner at the far end. As she and Heather

sneak the boys down, the other OCCUPANTS of the floor giggle

in French and dart from door to door in near-undress.

INT. SHEENI'S DORM ROOM - NIGHT

A cement cubicle just big enough for a bunk bed, two small

desks, an army surplus dresser, and a stuffed armchair.

Sheeni pulls a nightgown from the dresser.

Lefty gulps and picks up his grip. He pauses in the hallway.

The door closes and Vijay and Nick exchange a knowing glance.

Sheeni steps into the tiny closet to change. Vijay and Nick

regard the...

WALL OF TAGGARTY'S CONQUESTS

a series of mug shots of sullen-looking TEENAGE BOYS. Most of

them have been given a grade of C- or below.

The two boys turn around and watch in hot-blooded bliss as

Taggarty searches for her misplaced nightie.

INT. GIRL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

The two boys brush their pearlies over the grungy sink.

INT. SHEENI'S DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Nick tries to appear unconcerned. She gives him a kiss and

climbs into her narrow bed.

As Nick and Vijay prepare their sleeping bags on the floor,

they watch Taggarty climb up to her bunk in the sky.

A beat of BLACKNESS. Then a light tap at the door.

There is the sound of Sheeni getting out of bed. She cracks

the door, letting in just enough light from the hall that a

MALE SHADOW gets cast across the two boys on the floor.

Nick squints and tries to hear what Sheeni and the male

shadow are whispering to each other.

After a beat, Sheeni closes the door and the room plunges

into BLACKNESS once again. Nick listens as Sheeni climbs back

into bed as if nothing happened.

Beat.

Beat.

Though silence follows, we take a moment to allow Nick's mind

to race in the dark. He stands and looks at the mirror above

the dresser. Francois can be made out sitting by the window

in the moonlight, stroking the Thompson.

And with that he cocks the Thompson for dramatic flare.

INT. GIRLS' DORM - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Nick emerges from the room in nothing but his underwear and a

whindbreaker. He creeps down the hall.

EXT. ECOLE DES ARTS ET LITTERATURE - GROUNDS - NIGHT

The school SECURITY VAN crawls by in the background, a

searchlight sweeping the grounds.

The moment it is out of sight, Nick darts from the bushes of

the girls' dorm and races across the campus to the boys'

dorm.

INT. BOYS DORM - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Nick makes his way down the hall, checking the names on the

colored paper cut-out shapes that adorn the doors.

He stops and backtracks when he spots the door that boasts

the names TRENT and ED.

Nick knocks on the door.

It opens inward to reveal a bare-chested, hulking athlete in

a pajama pants. This is ED SOLOMON.

Nick takes off running and Ed stares after him.

EXT. ECOLE DES ARTS ET LITTERATURE - GROUNDS - NIGHT

The security van continues to make its rounds. We find Nick

crouching behind the steps to the boys dorm.

He pulls the hood of his windbreaker over his head and takes

a deep breath.

As the searchlight passes by, he makes a break for it.

TRACK with Nick as he darts from one form of cover to the

next, perhaps accompanied by the imagined sounds of mortar

blasts and machine gun turret fire.

At long last he reaches the girls' dorm undetected.

INT. GIRLS' DORM - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Nick bangs on the door. Heather answers in little more than a

G-string and Nick seems to forget his mission just long

enough to appreciate her body.

Nick peers past Heather where he finds Lefty standing naked

in the moonlight.

The fact that Nick doesn't yet raises his temperament even

further.

And with that piece of disturbing info, he leaves them.

INT. GIRL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

There is the CLAP of thunder outside as Nick throws open the

door to the girls' bathroom. He looks around with murderous

rage.

There comes the sound of someone vomiting.

Nick kicks in the stall and finds BERNICE LYNCH, 17, a thin

platinum haired girl with six earrings per lobe. She hurls

into the toilet again and turns around to find Nick.

She waves him away as she bends over the sink to hurl again.

Then lifts her face and smiles through the dripping bile.

Nick's eyes widen in alarm.

INT. SHEENI'S DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Nick enters the dark room to the sound of the bed squeaking.

Vijay and Taggarty grunt away on the top bunk.

He watches the moon lit forms thumping together.

He turns his attention to the sleeping beauty on the bottom

bunk. He moves toward her.

She blinks, waking and smiles at the sight of him.

Nick hangs his head.

Nick stares into her eyes to discern her honesty, but he

finds nothing but adoration.

She smiles. Nick smiles too. She reaches out to pull him into

her bed as...

The door to the room slams open and they are suddenly backlit

by the harsh beam of the matron's flashlight.

Nick bolts upright, smacking his head against the top bunk.

He lands on the floor, where he gets a view of... Trent

standing behind the matron. The blinding light makes his

features difficult to make out but his white teeth are

definitely smiling diabolically.

EXT. GIRLS' DORM - NIGHT

The boys come out of the front door of the dormitory, the

matron, flanked by SCHOOL SECURITY GUARDS, hot on their

heels. The girls in the dorm appear on the balcony in droves,

cheering the boys' escape.

Vijay's pants fall to his ankles, tripping him up.

Nick and Lefty grab Vijay by the arms and pull him up again

as if he were a wounded war buddy in a retreat from the

Vietnamese Army.

They reach the Beamer at the edge of the grounds. Nick gets

in first. Lefty dives through the back window, legs kicking.

Vijay slams the door just as the matron and her security team

catches up to them. The authorities bang on the windows as

Nick peels out.

INDIAN POP blares from the car. They speed off into the

night.

I/E. BMW 325I (MOVING) - NIGHT

Lefty lets out a holler of joy.

The car sputters. Nick's eyes go to the gas gauge.

EXT. HIGHWAY 101 - RAINING - NIGHT

The rain is coming down again. Nick shivers in his underwear.

Vijay isn't in much more and Lefty's sheet is drenched.

EXT. HIGHWAY 101 - RAINING - NIGHT

A couple coins are inserted into a roadside pay phone. There

is ringing on the other end.

A long beat.

EXT. HIGHWAY 101 - RAINING - NIGHT

The three boys are still standing in the rain by the pay

phone. The three of them huddle under their only windbreaker.

A pair of headlights appear in the rain. The headlights flash

twice and Nick runs out into the road.

POV TRUCK DRIVER

Nick waving frantically in nothing but tightie-whities.

The truck pulls to a stop and the passenger door opens to

reveal, the driver, a man named WALLY RUMPKIN, a seven foot

tall giant in a plaid shirt and bib overalls. He looks down

at our three waylaid adventurers.

The two other boys exchange confused glances, not entirely if

this is how people go missing.

Nick nods, not yet sure whether or not this gentle giant is

actually blushing with shyness or red with agitation at being

sent on a midnight mission.

Nick breaks into a smile. Finally the Gods have cut him a

break.

INT. ESTELLE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Wally and Estelle watch the three semi-clothed boys shovel in

fried liver with no complaint.

Estelle's face registers "none of your business," but a kind

look from Wally and she softens.

Nick nods and goes back to eating.

Estelle smiles with pride. Nick and the other boys regard the

gentle giant with admiration. He bashfully averts his eyes.

INT. ESTELLE'S LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Nick and the other two boys pause in the doorway.

Where once the Chevy occupied the space, the living room was

now fairly returned to it's normal uncluttered state with all

the furniture placed back in the original positions.

At some point Wally must have sawed a hole in the wall shared

by the living and dining areas because the Chevy now occupies

that hole and has been painted and decorated such that it has

achieved an almost seamless blend with the wall.

Estelle goes and takes a seat on the couch.

Wally blushes before he flips a switch and the tail lights

come on, giving the living room a warm, flattering glow.

Wally flips another switch and the car's radio turns on.

Wally makes a slightly embarrassed gesture of scratching his

head before lumbering over to the couch and taking a seat

next to Estelle.

Nick watches as Wally puts his arm around his mother and they

listen to the Chevy play them Elvis' LOVE ME TENDER.

The two adults snuggle in the glow of the tail lights and it

brings an unexpected rush of caring in his expression.

EXT. UKIAH - DAY

The truck rumbles to a stop and the three boys climb out.

Nick looks, over his shoulder at Wally blushing behind the

wheel of the truck.

Wally blushes even more. He closes the door and starts to

turn the truck around. Nick watches him go. Wally waves

goodbye.

Nick turns and the three boys make their way down the dusty

road.

INT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - DAY

Lacey works up a sweat to Billy Blank. Nick comes through the

door. He's still in his underwear.

Lacey gives Nick an amused smile.

Lacey rolls her eyes and heads for the bedroom. Nick sits

down with Dwayne at the breakfast table.

Nick seethes inwardly. There comes a ruckus from the back

bedroom and Lacey emerges.

George appears in the doorway.

Nick hangs his head. George moves about the kitchen chugging

from a jug of zin. Lacey picks up the ringing phone.

Lacey hangs up the phone.

Lacey takes a seat next to Nick and sighs.

George swills some zin and mumbles ominously.

INT. CAFETERIA - DAY

Nick looks up glumly from his lunch. Lefty has his feet up on

the table, his facial growth is almost respectable.

Nick narrows his eyes at the two non-virgins.

A beat. Lefty and Vijay seem taken aback by the outburst.

Nick stands and collects his lunch tray.

INT. REDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL - COMPUTER LAB - DAY

Nick enters the computer lab and finds an open machine.

Nick begins typing and speaking out loud.

INT. BERNICE'S ROOM - DAY

Bernice reads the letter.

INT. HEADMASTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Sheeni, Taggarty, and Heather sit across from the HEADMASTER

as the matron describes the events.

INT. BERNICE'S ROOM - DAY

Bernice dumps the pills from the envelope.

INT. CAFETERIA - DAY

Bernice sits next to Sheeni, despite the fact she's being

ignored. Bernice drops a pill into Sheeni's coffee

nonchalantly.

INT. CLASSROOM - DAY

Sheeni watches the INSTRUCTOR.

Sheeni's head slips off her hand as she drifts off. We MOVE

across the classroom to where Bernice scribbles in her

notebook.

A view of the notebook shows her to be scribbling Nick's name

with hearts. She flips through pages of obsession.

INT. REDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL - COMPUTER LAB - DAY

Nick's fingers fly across the keys. He looks pleased with

himself.

He looks around for observers, looks back at the screen

pensively, and resumes typing.

ON A MAILBOX

As Nick deposits his letter.

EXT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - EVENING

Nick wanders up the drive. WE FOLLOW him into the house.

INT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - CONTINUOUS

...where he comes upon the sight of Paul giving Lacey a foot

message on the couch.

Nick watches the sensual foot message. He picks up the bag

full of mushrooms and considers them.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Nick pukes his guts into the sink.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nick's in bed reading Lovemaking for Advanced Gourmets.

He glances up at Dwayne playing Nintendo and scowls.

There comes the strange warbled sound of a TRUMPET from the

next room, and it is joined by other instruments until we

hear The Nutley Brass' rendition of I WANT TO BE SEDATED.

Nick furrows his eyebrows in confusion.

ON THE BOOK

as the nude figures suddenly BECOME ANIMATED, making

wonderful love.

Nick follows them with his eyes as they float off the page.

WE FOLLOW Nick as he follows the nude figures who do

acrobatics down...

THE HALL

and into...

THE LIVING ROOM

where Lacey watches Paul blow on his trumpet.

Nick marvels. The phone rings.

Nick picks up the phone and Paul takes his place at Lacey's

feet.

I/E. BMW 325I (MOVING) - NIGHT

George cradles the cell phone. WE INTERCUT.

He hangs up the phone and pulls out the cord.

He joins Paul in working Lacey's feet.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nick watches the headlights from the arriving BMW travel

across the walls.

They go out. He listens to the front door being keyed

followed by his father bellowing.

Nick gets up and wanders into...

LIVING ROOM

where Paul stands between George and Lacey.

George lunges and Paul socks him in the eye, dropping him to

the floor.

George gets to his feet.

She gets up in his face.

As Lacey and Paul depart, Nick turns and dreamily wanders

back toward his room.

Nick gets back into his room and closes the door behind him.

SWISH TO... Dwayne playing Nintendo naked. He looks over his

shoulder.

Nick unplugs the Nintendo and climbs into bed. Dwayne just

sits there on the floor, naked as a clam.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - THE DEAD OF NIGHT

Nick squirms with an amorphous blob, they wrestle against the

red abstract background.

INT. NICK'S ROOM - MORNING

Nick's bleary eyes snap open and wander to the floor, where

his pajamas lie in a crumpled pile.

A pillow whacks across a blubbery face.

Dwayne throws off his sheets. Nick shudders at the sight.

...which is when Mrs. Crampton barges in..

INT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - DAY

Nick dials on the phone. Behind him, Dwayne eats breakfast,

cheerfully kicking his feet back and forth under the chair.

INT. SHEENI'S DORM ROOM - DAY

Taggarty's at her desk. Her thick rimmed glasses almost make

her look studious. WE INTERCUT.

Taggarty crosses to the bunks, where Sheeni is curled up

among the sheets as if in some Renaissance portrait.

Sheeni sleepily takes the phone.

I'm not home sick, Nick. In fact,

I'm not very happy with you.

Me? What did I do?

You know damn well, Nick. You've

been spreading rumors about Trent.

And he doesn't deserve it.

Doesn't deserve it!?! I'd have to

claim he has genital warts to sink

to his level.

Well, whatever you said to Ed

Solomon, it was enough to get him

to give Trent a black eye.

Sheeni, I just don't get it. This

guy has cock-blocked at every turn

and you're taking his side?!?

Cock-blocked?

We'll have to resume this another

time, Nick. It's been an

emotionally exhausting weekend. My

parents are in an uproar over Paul.

He's moved some floozie in with him

up in the studio over the garage.

Lacey's not a floozie.

Lacey? You know her?

Of course. She's my father's ex-

girlfriend. I think that might make

you my stepmother-in-law.

Nick. Don't be gross.

Sorry. At any rate, I'll let you

go. We'll have plenty of time to

settle this tomorrow.

CLICK. Nick regards the phone defensively. He puts it down

and takes a seat at the table.

He glares at Dwayne as they eat breakfast. There comes a

knock at the front door.

I/E. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - DAY

A POLICE OFFICER stands on the steps. Nick goes wide eyed at

the sight of him and visibly slumps.

Nick stands stiff as a board. The officer peers around him at

Dwayne sitting inside.

The officer makes a note.

Nick gives a weak smile and closes the door.

EXT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - DAY

Nick totes boxes of belongings from the house to the

Crampton's dilapidated camper.

INT. CAMPER - NIGHT

A view of the thin birch walls. We come to rest on Nick,

shivering under an electric blanket. There's a blob of snot

on his upper-lip.

EXT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - DAY

The velvet voices of the Rat Pack come from the home.

Nick emerges from the Camper wrapped in the electric blanket.

He scurries into the house.

INT. BATHRROOM - DAY

Nick showers.

Nick straightens his Garcia tie in the mirror. He applies

hair gel.

Nick examines the whitehead on his brow. He pinches and a

glob of puss smacks the mirror.

INT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - HALLWAY - DAY

He emerges into the hall and dances with an invisible partner

into the...

LIVING ROOM

where the phone RINGS. He flips off the stereo with the

remote and snatches up the phone.

Nick sighs.

Nick glances up and sees the black and white patrol car

pulling up outside.

He slams down the phone.

EXT. GEORGE'S MANUFACTURED HOME - DAY

The window slides open and Nick comes crawling out, leaping

to the ground. He takes off running through the woods.

EXT. MY GREEN HAVEN - DAY

Nick pounds on the door.

Nick turns to find Lefty coming up the path with two bags of

groceries under his arms.

We linger a beat on Nick's blank expression. Then -

EXT. WOODS - DUSK

We're off and running through the woods, trying to keep up

with Nick as he flees.

EXT. COVERED BRIDGE - NIGHT

The spotlight from the overhead helicopter sweeps over the

bridge and continues down the road.

UNDER THE BRIDGE

Nick squats in the shadows. He's holding a bouquet of

municipal flowers and dabs the sweat on his head with his

tie.

EXT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - NIGHT

Nick peers through the bushes at the mobile home across the

street. A squad car crawls past, the rover squawking a terse

description of a teenage white male.

Nick emerges from the shrubs and approaches the house.

He rings the ornate Victorian doorbell. Paul answers in an

apron.

INT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - NIGHT

Lacey floats toward him and gives him a hug.

She spots the sad flowers in his hand.

Lacey leads him by the hand into the chintz-bedecked parlor.

Sheeni's larger-than-life father and 5,000 year old mother

sit cross-legged on the floor, running their hands over the

hooked rug.

Mrs. Saunders coos and takes the flowers. Her husband squints

up at him.

Nick glances over at Mrs. Saunders who is now eating the

flowers.

Nick smiles with amusement.

Taggarty makes her entrance down the stairs, cloaked in a

green cape.

She greets him with a casually intimate kiss.

INT. SHEENI'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nick knocks and enters to find Sheeni sprawled on the bed

with a book.

Sheeni finally looks up from her book.

A beat as Nick's open admissions makes her consider his

point. She sighs and shakes her head.

She tosses the book at him, but he dodges it successfully.

She stands up and tries to slap him. He grabs her wrists and

pulls her to him.

They share a long, intense kiss.

They break away and she smiles in spite of herself.

INT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - NIGHT

The Saunders and extended family take their seats at the

polished mahogany table crammed with turkey, yams, mashed

potatoes, and cranberry sauce.

They all lower their heads and Lacey leads them in prayer.

Mr. Saunders emits a long, low, fog horn of a fart that ends

badly.

The others exchange glances but he and his wife still have

their heads solemnly bowed.

They begin eating. A helicopter passes by outside, search

light briefly coming through the windows.

Nick watches Mr. Saunders take a handful of mashed potatoes

and apply it to his face like war paint.

Another helicopter passes overhead.

Sheeni narrows her eyes at him.

A long beat as they all dine in silence. Then-

Mrs. Saunders croaks out in song.

Paul begins humming approvingly and one by one the others

accompany her as Mr. Saunders pretends to conduct them with a

drumstick.

And with that, the doorbell rings. Taggarty gets up and opens

the door.

Nick glances up with a start as TRENT PRESTON makes his

entrance. He's not quite the deity Nick's expected, but

rather a fairly plain, blond with slightly androgenous

features and a certain flamboyance. His black eye, courtesy

of Ed Solomon, still remains.

Mr. Saunders grunts his acknowledgement as he takes the

pitcher and pours water into his own lap.

Trent swivels slowly around and they lock eyes.

Sheeni and Taggarty gasp. Nick swallows hard.

He dramatically extracts the letter from his pocket.

Mrs. Saunders points a liver spotted finger in his direction.

Nick places his napkin next to his plate and stands.

Nick stops in front of Trent.

The other guests murmur their shock. Nick stops in the

doorway.

With the dreadful proclamation ringing in his ears, Nick

leaves.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

Nick's silhouette figure racing through the trees.

Nick stops at the edge of the woods to catch his breath.

He looks up the road which has been blocked off by flashing

squad cars.

EXT. LOS ANGELES - ESTABLISHING - DAY

The downtown high-rises protrude from the layer of smog. In

pre-lap, someone pushes a door BUZZER repeatedly.

INT. JOANIE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Joanie opens the door and finds Nick on her doorstep.

INT. JOANIE'S APARTMENT - LATER

Joanie listens gravely, shaking her head at the most gruesome

parts of the story. Nick finishes, flopping into a chair.

Nick furrows his brow. Clearly that had not occurred to him.

Nick nods in understanding. An epiphanic smile.

Joanie nods in amusement.

Nick takes the wad of cash, clearly moved.

INT. LOS ANGELES BUS TERMINAL - DAY

Nick slaps the cash on the counter and slides it under the

window.

INT. LANCE'S DUMP - BATHROOM - DAY

Lance squats on the toilet in a neck brace. He chuckles over

an issue of Penthouse. The phone rings. He picks it up

EXT. LOS ANGELES BUS TERMINAL - DAY

Nick is crammed into the phone booth. He's wearing shades and

a fedora. WE INTERCUT.

Lance seethes inwardly.

Nick slams down the phone before Lance can respond.

I/E. BUS (MOVING) - DAY

Nick sits by the window, the suitcase on the seat next to

him.

EXT. UKIAH - DAY

And the bus flies past the sign that says WELCOME TO UKIAH.

EXT. UKIAH BUS STOP - NIGHT

Nick steps off the bus and finds Lefty loading his belongings

underneath.

Lefty lifts his eyes and sees his friend.

Nick answers with only pensive silence.

EXT. PAUL'S HIDEOUT ABOVE GARAGE - NIGHT

Nick is about to knock on the door when Paul opens it in

another display of clairvoyance.

INT. PAUL'S HIDEOUT ABOVE GARAGE - LATER

Nick sits beside Paul and Lacey on the couch as they watch

the infamous "chicken scene" in REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE.

They all watch transfixed as JAMES DEAN leaps from his

automobile just in time to escape demise.

INT. PAUL'S HIDEOUT ABOVE GARAGE - LATER

As the END CREDITS of REBEL play behind them, Lacey fits a

bombshell wig on Nick's head and finishes the last touches of

make-up that make him...

...who we will come to know as CARLOTTA ULANSKY. Nick regards

his female alter-ego in the mirror.

INT. BMW 325I - DAY

Nick turns the key in the ignition and CHRISTMAS MUSIC rises

from the speakers. And the music plays over...

EXT. REDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

...where a crowd begins to form in anticipation of Nick's

arrival.

Nick watches from behind a tree on the ridge.

EXT. REDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL - LATER

...where police cars and news crews are pulling up to

interview the students.

EXT. REDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL - LATER

The parking lot is now filled with police cruisers and FBI

vans, the news crews, REDWOOD HIGH STUDENTS, and an

apparently CALIFORNIA WIDE NICK TWISP CULT FOLLOWING.

TINA MANION, 17, speaks into a STUDENT NEWS CREW CAMERA.

There comes a murmur from the crowd and Tina directs the

student camera-man to the road on the ridge where...

George's BMW pulls to a stop overlooking the school.

The crowd hushes as the door opens and Nick emerges.

NICK'S POV

of the parking lot below, which looks like the kind of turn

out one would expect of a Star Wars prequel.

ON THE VARIOUS FACES OF THE CROWD

staring up in silence. Estelle, Wally, Vijay, Trent, Dwayne,

George, Lacey, Paul...

Nick gives a little wave as if he were a celebrity.

The parking lot erupts with CHEERS of his name. A few

Berkeley KIDS hold up a sign that reads I'M SINGLE, LET'S

MINGLE.

Then - shouts of warning from the megaphones.

And as the flashers and sirens come to life, Nick jumps back

into his father's car and peels out.

I/E. BMW 325I (MOVING) - DAY

Nick glances in the rear view mirror as the cops bear through

the cloud kicked up in his wake.

Nick pops in a CD and turns up the Christmas music to drown

out the sirens.

EXT. COVERED BRIDGE - DAY

He zips across the covered bridge, the train of law

enforcement in hot pursuit.

I/E. BMW 325I (MOVING) - DAY

He yanks the wheel hard and veers off onto the mountain road.

A few of the squad cars miss the turn and skid side-long

through a picket fence.

Nick takes the switchbacks at 60 per, wheels practically

sliding off the turns.

EXT. BLUFF OVER CLEAR LAKE - DAY

The BMW crests the hill and smashes through the chain link

gate.

I/E. BMW 325I (MOVING) - DAY

As Nick watches the quickly approaching cliffs edge, he

undoes his seat belt.

He goes for the door handle, eyes going wide when he finds

power lock has engaged.

EXT. BLUFF OVER CLEAR LAKE - DAY

The BMW hurtles off the bluff and soars through the air,

tires spinning, a plume of snow blowing off the hood.

The car descends into a nose dive and flips completely upside-

down, hitting the ice covered surface of Clear Lake with a

thundering SMACK.

Police cars swerve to a stop at the edge of the bluff and the

crowd of officers and agents peer over the side at the hole

in the ice.

UNDERWATER

The BMW descends toward us in a storm of air bubbles.

As it gently touches down at the bottom of the lake, a somber

TRUMPET SOLO comes in pre-lap and we are...

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Where a crowd of family, friends, and fans stand around in

mourning garb over the funeral ceremony.

We move from Lacey and Paul, the latter of which is wailing

away on the trumpet, to Lefty, his head hung low. Heather

pulls his head to her breasts.

INT. HILLS ABOVE UC CAMPUS - FLASHFORWARD - DAY

Lefty humping Heather in the grass ala the scene in which we

met him.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

...where we find Vijay glancing over at Taggarty as she

smokes a cigarette.

INT. SHEENI'S DORM ROOM - FLASHFORWARD - NIGHT

Taggarty at her wall. Ed Solomon lounges in the bed behind

her.

With a quick stroke of her pen, she changes Ed's grade from a

B minus to a B plus.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

...where we find Joanie sniffling.

INT. AIRPLANE (35,000 FT) - FLASHFORWARD - DAY

Joanie serves up a beverage in first class.

The CELEBRITY she is serving looks from her cleavage to her

eyes. She gives a little smile.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

...where we find Estelle weeping quietly against Wally's

shoulder.

INT. JEOPARDY STUDIO - FLASHFORWARD - NIGHT

Estelle watches from the audience as Wally scribbles at his

podium while ALEX TREBECK hosts inaudibly.

The answer on Wally's screen says WHO IS ALBERT CAMUS? Alex

Trebeck shakes his head, leaving Wally with only $1, but

enough to best his two competitors.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

...where we find George puffing on a cigar, Mrs. Crampton

behind him, his hand resting on Dwayne's shoulder.

I/E. BMW M6SMG - MOVING - FLASHFORWARD - DAY

Dwayne sticks his head out the window and shouts with glee as

his flab flaps in the wind.

As the car accelerates, we see the vanity plate reads THUNDER

ROD.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

And finally we arrive on Sheeni, expressionless. And as we

continue to PAN we reach...

Carlotta standing in the background. The bombshell haircut

and thick glasses can barely be made out through her veil.

Paul finishes his trumpet solo and there is a moment of

silence to observe the open casket and the SINGLE, LET'S

MINGLE shirt and shorts that are being buried inside.

EXT. CEMETERY - DUSK

Sheeni makes her way toward the line of limos and hearses.

She approaches the distant Carlotta.

Carlotta looks up, startled. She composes herself and shakes

Sheeni's hand.

Sheeni lets go a slight, wistful smile.

Sheeni gives a pensive nod.

Carlotta does her best not to look conflicted, but it shows.

INT. SHEENI'S ROOM - NIGHT

Carlotta hurriedly finishes tucking herself in while Sheeni

brushes in the bathroom.

Carlotta hastily switches out the light. Sheeni emerges in a

few small scraps of flimsy black lace.

Sheeni crawls into bed. She cuddles close.

Carlotta furrows her brow.

Sheeni tugs off the wig and tosses it across the room.

Nick swoons, grasping her gauze-glazed nakedness.

And as they engage in a feverish kiss, ROUSING HYMNS surge.

The church chorus' joyful song rings Hallelujah.

The two lovers are entwined before an abstract RED

BACKGROUND.

LAS VEGAS OF THE BODY

Into the NICK'S PENIS nightclub where champagne bottles POP

with the ringing in of a new era, and the Leopards ROAR, and

the stage erupts with fireworks.

INT. SHEENI'S ROOM - MORNING

Nick sleeps with a grin on his face. He rouses at the touch

of Sheeni's lips on his cheek.

Sheeni hauls herself out of bed and grabs the phone off the

cradle.

She smiles at him and he smiles back.

INT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - DAY

Nick prances into the living room in his underwear.

He starts to head into the kitchen when he catches sight of

the full length mirror out of the corner of his eye. He stops

in front of the mirror and flexes his biceps. Admires

himself.

Francois appears in the mirror behind Nick, Thompson slung

over his shoulder.

Nick lowers his arms and furrows his brow.

Nick lifts his eyebrows with dawning epiphany.

In the reflection we can see behind Nick as Albert leaps onto

the love seat and barks at the sound of approaching sirens.

Nick runs to the window just in time to see half a dozen law

enforcement vehicles pull up.

He ducks down from the window as a chopper buzzes overhead.

Nick spins to face her. She's standing in the doorway and

there's not a hint of wrong-doing in her face.

Nick looks to Francois in disbelief. But the Frenchman just

rolls his eyes.

A long pensive beat as Nick contemplates telling her he may

never see her again. But behind Sheeni's air of control, Nick

finally sees the vulnerability he's had in his hands all

along.

Sheeni beams. Francois smacks his forehead with hand.

The Frenchman in the mirror sticks the barrel of the Thompson

in his mouth and blows himself OUT OF FRAME just as...

...the front door bursts open and the FBI AGENTS surround

Nick.

EXT. SAUNDERS' MOBILE HOME - DAY

The agents lead Nick to the caravan of law enforcement parked

in the road.

Sheeni emerges from the home, Albert barking in protest.

Nick strains against his cuffs to look over his shoulder at

her.

The FBI agents shove Nick into the back of their black

Saturn.

INT. SATURN(MOVING) - DAY

Nick watches out the back window as the car pulls away. A

view of Sheeni waving in the road, Albert at her feet.

Nick turns to face the front while behind him the waving

figure gets ever more distant. A pensive moment as he

actually questions...

Nick revisits those thirty two minutes in his mind and it

brings a smirk to his face.

And as Tom Jones' SHE'S A LADY kicks in, we...

