INT. ARCADE WORLD -- ELECTRONIC DARKNESS

We don't know if it's night or day.  It's just black.

And maybe...maybe intermittent SPARKS racing by.  So quick we barely

perceive them.  Like the sparks you imagine when your eyes are closed.

BREATHING,

slow and hollow, filling up the entire world.  It's eerie as hell.  A

feeling of utter loneliness.

And now the breathing recedes, fading into the darkness.  Whatever it

was...it's gone now.

MAIN CREDITS ROLL.

We hear CELLOS.  Four of them.  Weaving an intricate melody.

And now the visuals.  BRIGHTLY COLORED SHAPES spinning in.  Equally

intricate, matching the music.  They grow and flourish, like flowers

opening up in time lapse photography.

FRACTALS...

is what they're called.  The visual manifestation of geometric formulas.

The Mandelbrot Set.  The Julia Set.  Each mathematic form made up of

progressively smaller forms and on into infinity.

Glorious and beautiful.  Forms folding in upon themselves and

regenerating.

This is creation we're witnessing.

This is life in the making.

INT. COUNSELOR'S OFFICE -- DAY

AN EYE

For a brief moment we still hear the CELLOS.  And in the eye, the last of

the fractals are spinning away, leaving us with the iris.  A nice blue

one.  This is ALEX MANNING'S eye.

INT.  MANNING HOUSE, HALLWAY -- DAY

This is a flashback, in case you're wondering.  We'll continue to hear

Alex's VOICE as we move through the house in slow motion.  Everything is

very bright and dreamlike.

Right now we're moving with the camera, slowly moving down a long hallway.

At the end of the hallway is an open door.

We stop at the doorway.  We're afraid to go in.

We move through the doorway.

INT.  MANNING HOUSE, BEDROOM -- DAY

Everything looks normal at first.  A typical bedroom with sunlight

streaming in through the windows.  A bed, made-up. Flowers in vases.

Everything looks perfect.

Then we move further in, and over to the right.  There's something on the

floor, curled up in the entranceway to the bathroom.  Halfway in, halfway

out.

It's a woman's body.  She's wearing a dress, her legs awkwardly bent.  We

can't see her face from this angle. But in her limp hand is a gun.  And

all around that hand, speckling the pristine white tile of the bathroom

and the carpeting beyond, is BLOOD.

A shrill BELL shatters the moment.

INT.  COUNSELOR'S OFFICE -- DAY

The bell continues.  It's a school bell signaling the end of the period.

ON ALEX

as we see her for the first time, startled.  She's seventeen and pretty,

though in a simple way.  Her eyes are the most striking.  Deep.  Intense.

If Alex has a problem, it's the fact that she thinks too much, and it's

reflected in her eyes.

Across from her is MR. WEAVER, a high-school guidance counselor and that

was his voice we heard with Alex's. He's unexceptional, middle-aged,

incapable of really hearing what Alex has to say.  This is his office

we're in. Typical "SAY NO TO DRUGS" teen propaganda decorate the room.

Fun.

As the BELL dies we hear the army of FOOTSTEPS outside, students milling

in the halls.

Alex glances at the door and starts to rise from her chair.

Mr. Weaver stops, more than a little uncomfortable.

Alex glances down at the floor, anything to avoid looking at the

counselor.  She heaves a backpack onto to shoulder.

She turns, and before Mr. Weaver can respond, she's out the door.

INT.  HIGH-SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY

Alex moves quickly through the mass of STUDENTS, wiping the remnants of

half-tears on her coat sleeve.

INT.  HIGH-SCHOOL CAFETERIA - DAY

Fun-time.  Total chaos.  If you've been to high-school you know the riff.

Bad food, teen-age melodrama, and a squadron of SUPERVISORS trying to keep

a lid on things.

ALEX

makes her way to the far corner of the cafeteria where a cluster of kids

lounge around a table.  These are Alex's FRIENDS.  And while none of them

are your garden variety pocket-protector-type nerds, these kids aren't

exactly part of the "in-crowd".  They're a little off.  Quirky.  All of

them come from screwed up families, and that's what bonds them.  They are:

GREG HOLLISTON -- Alex's boyfriend.  Hopeful artist (not bad, either) and

kind of punk looking.  Greg and the others are big fans of thrift-shop

clothing.  Because they don't have the money, they improvise.

NICK DRAKE -- Greg's best friend and future computer pioneer.  He's

attractive and he's got an edge.  A bit of a hot-shot.  Genius in the

making.

BENZ AND STILTS -- Inseparable.  Benz is flunking out of school and would

like nothing better than to spend the rest of his life reading comic

books.  He's tall, perpetually unkempt, awkward, and nervous.  Stilts,

contrary to his nickname, is quite short and never without his skateboard.

Stilts is constantly hitting on...

LAURIE -- The sixth member of the group.  A teen Theda Bara and as cynical

as you can get.  She's what's affectionately known as an "art chick".

The boys in the group, particularly Nick and Stilts, are avid

skateboarders and are frequently seen with their boards.  Stilts is always

leafing through an issue of THRASHER magazine.

Right now the group is in the midst of an argument.  Nick has a pocket

video game in his hands which he casually plays.  He can get through these

games in his sleep.  It BEEPS and WHIRS.

Stilts and Greg burst into laughter.

Alex flops down in a chair and everyone turns.

Alex shrugs, trying to make light of it.

Greg turns back to Alex and looks her in the eye.

Greg leans over and kisses Alex.  The rest of the group launches into

exaggerated GROANS, with Benz and Stilts fluttering their eyes and making

"smooching faces" at each other.  The kiss is over and everyone LAUGHS.

Things are okay now.

Greg pulls an old Polaroid camera from his backpack.  He leans in close to

her and holds the camera at arm's length, aiming it back at them.  FLASH!

And the moment's captured forever.

Greg pulls the Polaroid out and peels off the backing. Before the picture

even develops, he begins rubbing his fingers over it, manipulating the

emulsion.

Greg pulls some papers from his backpack and slides them over to Benz.

The papers are color xeroxes of Polaroid blow-ups.  Greg has messed with

them, creating swirling, psychedelic patterns with the images.  Stilts and

Laurie lean in.

Greg holds up the Polaroid for Alex to see.

POLAROID

Greg and Alex are side by side, grinning...all around them the world has

spun into strange colors.  It's an odd effect.

Greg drops the photo in his shirt pocket and pats it.

Meanwhile, Nick's pocket video game emits an EXPLOSION NOISE.

He sets the game down, dejected.

Benz pulls a flyer from inside his coat.  It's an ad for a new game called

"ARCADE", featuring a pair of evil eyes and glowing hands coming out of a

circuit board.  The tag at the bottom reads, "COMING THIS FALL.  REALITY

WILL NEVER BE THE SAME".

Benz pulls back the flyer and looks at it again.

Greg turns to Alex.

Alex laughs.  Laurie took the words right out of her mouth.

EXT.  DANTE'S INFERNO -- DAY

The Inferno is a run-down video arcade near the beach, notable because the

games it sports are generally defective and out of date.  Nevertheless,

it's become our group's hang-out.  It has its charms.

A huge mural, chipped and faded with age, adorns the front of the

arcade...something straight out of Hieronymus Bosch. Demons in day-glo.

The yawning mouth of an enormous devil surrounds the entrance.

ALEX AND THE OTHERS

pull up across the street, caravan style.  Greg and Alex are in one

car...an ancient Buick Skylark.  No Honda Accords or VW Rabbits for this

group.

At the moment, there's quite a bit of activity at the Inferno's entrance.

KIDS are clustered around and Slip-Stream employees are passing out Arcade

promo sheets.

THE GROUP

heads for the entrance, plowing their way through the crowd.  Stilts and

Benz have their skateboards, jumping up onto the curb with them, then

popping them up into their arms.

INT.  DANTE'S INFERNO -- DAY

Inside, the Inferno is a mishmash of video games, ancient carnival props

and old horror movie posters.  Dusty, creepy under the right circumstances

and filled with leering faces...  in short, any kid's bedroom taken to a

horrific extreme.  At Dante's Inferno, they've got the latest games side

by side with chestnuts like Pac-Man.

THE GROUP

makes their way inside, joining a cluster of KIDS in the center of The

Inferno.  And there it is...

ARCADE

It looks out of place in the midst of The Inferno.  Shiny black,

high-tech, and almost self-contained, like some sort of space-age vertical

coffin.  Laser-etched graphics on the sides bear the ARCADE logo and the

same strange, frightening face.

Alex and her friends are suitably impressed, most notably, Nick and Benz.

Nick is silent, letting his eyes explore the machine.  He turns to Greg

and grins.

Another kid, DELOACH, pushes his way to the front of the group.  His

fighting a losing battle against acne.

That's it for Stilts.  He launches himself at DeLoach, catching him off

guard and KNOCKING him to the floor.

Nick, Alex, and Greg are on them in a minute, trying to extract the two

from each other.

A LARGE MAN

pushes his way towards them and effortlessly scoops both boys up, wrapping

a beefy hand around the scruffs of their necks.  This is FINSTER, the

proprietor...enormous, bald, and always irritable.

His face contorts and he spits as he speaks.  Nice guy. Alex steps

forward, always the voice of reason.

Everyone turns.  The voice came from...

ARCADE

It's up and running now.  The inside panel emits an eerie green light.

From speakers inside the compartment we can here BREATHING...the same

breathing we heard earlier. Coming from a machine like this, it's creepy

as hell.

Even Finster is impressed.  He releases the boys and stares at the

machine.

A MAN steps out from behind the ARCADE machine.  He grins happily, dressed

to kill, sporting a SLIP-STREAM ID tag. This is DIFFORD, P.R. man for

SLIP-STREAM.

The ARCADE machine continues to breathe, inhale, exhale... The eyes in the

face are glowing now, in unison with the breathing.

Difford draws closer and indicates the machine behind him with a nod.

Difford turns to Nick and salutes him.

Difford reaches into his coat pocket and pulls out a quarter.  He tosses

it at...

NICK

who snags it out of mid-air and grins.

Difford steps aside and waves Nick to the machine.  The rest of the kids

crowd around.

ARCADE

isn't just your typical video game.  First of all there are three

screens...front, left, and right...which provide a panoramic view while

playing.  Second, the player wears "data gloves" (which provide an actual

sensation of touch) and stereoscopic goggles which in turn are wired

directly into the machine.  The results give the user the feeling that

he/she has actually entered the video game universe.

Difford thinks he has a hit on his hands, and his excitement shows.

Nick pulls on the gloves, securing them with velcro straps.

Difford places the goggles on Nick's face.  Then he points to the control

board, which features two joy-sticks and a large RED BUTTON labeled

"ESCAPE".

Nick winks at Alex and Greg.

Nick turns back to the machine and pops the quarter into the coin slot.

He punches the "START" button on the top of one of the joy-sticks.

Immediately the screens come to life.  Darkness with shooting stars of

light racing back and forth.

ON SCREEN

A three-dimensional computer-generated FACE appears out of the darkness,

spinning in from far away and coming to rest.

The crowd of kids is suitably impressed.  Even Alex is amused.

So far, so good.

SUDDENLY,

A LIGHTBEAM above the video screen illuminates Nick's face.

ON SCREEN

the face of ARCADE spins away and a computer-generated figure appears,

complete with a pixel-rendered version of Nick's face!

VIDEO NICK

is dressed in futuristic armor with exaggerated CyberGloves and a full

helmet on instead of goggles.  He also wears elbow and knee pads and

carries a thrasher in his hands, sort of a cross between a souped-up

skateboard and the Silver Surfer's board.  It's his means of

transportation.

The screen prints out:  "NICK.  ENTER THE VORTEX".

VIDEO NICK

hops onto the thrasher.  Abruptly the world around him begins to spin, and

Video Nick is shooting a curl, a whirlpool of light...down, down, faster

and faster, until...

BOOM!  Empty space and video Nick is falling towards a circuit grid.  It's

the electronic universe rushing up to meet him...

ON SCREEN

Video Nick plummets from the sky like a meteor, slamming into the ground

with an explosion of dust.  The dust clears.

Video Nick is standing on an eerie plain, with strange reed-like plants

dotting the ground and mist coiling around everything.  It looks like

Earth, and yet...it doesn't.

VIDEO NICK

hops onto the thrasher and begins to move.  And move it does.  With a

WHOOP! the ARCADE world is rushing past us. The game has begun.

ON NICK'S FACE

As a smile gradually creeps across it.  He's having the time of his life,

gloved hands manipulating the joy-sticks like mad.  From his reactions, we

can tell that this is one of the most incredible things he's ever

experienced.

THE OTHER KIDS

watch Nick, then the screen, then Nick again...

Now everyone is laughing, urging Nick on.  It's like they've all

discovered the most amazing toy...something that's going to turn their

world upset down.

DIFFORD

is pleased as punch, watching the kids' reactions more than the game.

ON SCREEN

Images are rushing past at blinding speed, LASERS, EXPLOSIONS, and god

knows what...

ON NICK

As sweat begins to trickle down his fast.  His hands move faster and

faster, in response to the game.

The screen.

Nick.

The screen and...

BAM!!!  Nick SLAMS down the escape button and rips off his goggles.  The

video image freezes.

NICK

He's practically hyperventilating, sweat pouring down his face.  He leans

over, resting a hand on the control board. And for a moment, everyone is

silent.  Then...

Slowly, Nick lifts his head.  He's now sporting a devilish grin.

Nick pulls off his CyberGloves and holds them out for Greg. Greg turns to

Alex.

He hands her his keychain and takes the CyberGloves from Nick.  Greg pulls

them on, then straps on the goggles.

ON SCREEN

Greg hits the button and immediately the image unfreezes. Once again,

we're on the thrasher board, rushing across the plains.

GREG'S FACE

As a smile slowly creeps across it.

INT. DANTE'S INFERNO - LATER

At the front of The Inferno, Difford and two SLIP-STREAM HELPERS are

unpacking cardboard boxes.  The KIDS have clustered around them,

momentarily forgetting the ARCADE machine.

Difford pulls cut a handful of game cartridges as well as goggles which

dangle over his arm.

This is met with an enthusiastic response from the kids.

The kids can't line up fast enough.

OUR GROUP

is right up front, with Nick and Alex being the first two in line.

Difford winks at Nick.

Alex is glancing around now.  She sees Benz, Stilts, and Laurie, but not

Greg.

Laurie jerks her thumb back at the ARCADE machine.

And Alex finds Greg for a moment, spotting him over the heads of the other

kids.

ON GREG

His face is a mirror of Nick's...sweat pouring down, grinning from ear to

ear.  It's addictive as hell.  SIGHTS and SOUNDS rush past us on the three

screens, racing at incredible speeds.

And now, from within the game, we hear a strange sound...a SCREAM of

sorts, halfway between a shriek and a sonic boom.

The SHRIEK/SONIC BOOM reaches a nightmarish pitch and suddenly the screens

EXPLODE WITH LIGHT.

AT THE FRONT OF THE INFERNO...

everyone turns in response.  It's as if someone set off a flashbulb.

ALEX

pushes her way back through the kids, making her way to the ARCADE

machine.

ARCADE

Greg is nowhere to be found.  In fact, the CyberGloves and goggles are

dangling from the control board, abandoned.

Alex turns to a nearby KID.

The kid shrugs.

Alex isn't listening anymore.  She's staring at the floor of the ARCADE

machine.

GREG'S POLAROID

is on the floor...the photo of Greg and Alex which he manipulated.

Alex picks it up, glancing around.  She scans the faces of the crowd and

she doesn't see Greg anywhere.  She turns away.

ON SCREEN

A video figure is lying on the computer-generated ground. It sits up,

brushing dust from itself, and looks around. It faces us.  Only the image

isn't of Nick anymore.  It's VIDEO GREG now.

UP FRONT,

Alex has re-joined her friends.  The four of them are now clutching ARCADE

home versions in their arms, CyberGloves and all.  They look like kids on

Christmas Day.

Nick heads for the door with the rest of the group in tow.

EXT. DANTE'S INFERNO -- DAY

Outside, Greg is still nowhere to be found.  Benz, Stilts, and Laurie have

piled into their car, waiting for Nick to take the wheel.

NICK AND ALEX

are up by Greg's Skylark.

Alex holds them up and gives them a shake.

BEHIND THEM,

Laurie reaches over the seat and honks Nick's horn.  Laurie and the others

burst into LAUGHTER.  Stilts sets his skateboard on the street and rolls

it towards Nick.

BACK TO NICK AND ALEX

Nick stops the board with his foot and steps onto it, balancing.  He waves

to the others and turns back to Alex.

Nick tousles Alex's hair.  He shakes his ARCADE cartridge at her.

And with that, Nick's off, rolling back to his car and leaping over the

door, skateboard and all.  Laurie and the others are still screaming with

laughter.

Nick hits the ignition and guns the car, pulling out with a dramatic

SCREECH and sailing off down the street.

ON ALEX

clutching Greg's car keys.  She glances on the front seat, where her own

ARCADE cartridge rests.

THE CARTRIDGE

has the same glowing eyes that were laser-etched on the machine inside The

Inferno.

EXT. MANNING HOUSE -- NIGHT

The Manning place is your basic suburban ranch house, totally

unexceptional.  The lawn looks a little ragged and a pile of newspapers,

frayed and yellowing, have accumulated by the front door.  Inside, the

house is dark. Lonely.

ALEX

pulls up in Greg's Skylark, scooping the ARCADE kit into her arms.

INT.  MANNING HOUSE -- NIGHT

As Alex enters the dark house, we can hear WHISPERS coming from further

within.  It's a little creepy, but Alex seems unconcerned.

She negotiates her way through the darkened house, on into the den.

DEN -- FOLLOWING THROUGH

Dim, flickering LIGHT illuminates the den, casting long shadows across a

SLEEPING FIGURE on the couch.

This is Alex's father, JIM...hopelessly middle-aged and getting older by

the moment.  It's the t.v. that's doing the whispering.  CNN or something.

From what little we can see of the rest of the house, it looks like a

mess.

Alex bends down and jostles her father's shoulder.

Jim stirs, though barely.  He turns a sleepy face towards her, looking

gray and lifeless.

Jim shakes his head and sinks back into the couch.

From Alex's attitude, it's obvious that this scene has played itself out

many times before.

Jim waves a tired hand, dismissing her.

She turns and grabs a comforter that's bunched up at the end of the couch,

spreading it over her father.

ON THE T.V.

We're getting a de-saturated view of carnage...some sort of war going on

in some far-off land.

Alex grabs the remote and flicks the t.v. off, plunging the room into

darkness.

INT.  ALEX'S ROOM -- NIGHT

STATIC.

Late-night t.v. static, filling up the entire screen.

WE PULL BACK,

revealing a television...and further back until we see Alex crouched

behind it in silhouette.  She's fiddling with wires back there and...

BLINK! Suddenly the SLIP-STREAM logo appears on the t.v. screen with nifty

computer graphics.  She's just hooked up the home version of ARCADE.  Alex

moves back to the front of the set.

ALEX'S ROOM

is her haven, a virtual library, filled with books which she loses herself

in.  They're stacked everywhere.

And puzzles too.  Half-assembled jig-saws.  Intricate things.  An Escher

print.  The descendants of Rubik's Cube. Boxes within boxes.  This is

Alex's life, what she retreats to.

A PHOTO

of Alex and her MOTHER sits by her bed, neglected and collecting dust.

We'll see her later.

CANDLES

or what's left of them, have dripped and spread across her night table.

ALEX

sits at the foot of her bed, facing her television. Slowly, she draws on

the CyberGloves, testing her fingers. Next, she pulls on the goggles.

Instead of a control panel, the home version has a control box, complete

with joy-stick and a mini "ESCAPE" button.

Alex fingers the "START" button on top of the joy-stick.

THE SCREEN

goes black, black with intermittent sparks.  And the BREATHING begins.

ARCADE'S FACE

appears in the black, a pin-point at first, spinning round and round and

growing larger.  It comes to a rest, eyes glowing.

Alex jumps back, dropping the control box.  ARCADE continues to BREATHE.

A thing BEAM OF LIGHT shoots from the ARCADE terminal, playing over Alex's

face.

ON SCREEN

ARCADE'S face spins away, to be replaced by a pixel-rendered image of

Alex, dressed in battle gear.

Video Alex sets her thrasher on the ground and mounts it.

And from the screen...

ON SCREEN,

the vortex of light EXPLODES around video Alex, twisting reality.  And

Alex is spinning round and round, plummeting towards...

THE CIRCUIT GRID

beneath her, a world of geometric shapes and light and... The words:

EXT. LEVEL ONE, THE PLAINS -- DAY

Alex SLAMS into the ground, splashing up water and smoke alike.

We are inside ARCADE now, experiencing what Alex experiences.

THE PLAINS --

In many respects it looks like Earth.  Land, water, sky... Yet certain

things are off.  Small things, like the color of light, a sluggish

smoke-filled RED, or the occasional FLICKER OF LIGHTNING which races

beneath the cloud cover above.

ALEX

pulls herself up from the muck, brushing dirt and water from her face.

She coughs, totally disoriented.  Looks around.

Looks at herself.  She's wearing...

BATTLE GEAR

This is the real thing, as opposed to the cartoon version we saw Nick

wearing when he played the game before.  It's a cross between a

skateboarder's protective guardpads and full-blown armor.  A helmet rests

on her head, with a visor raised up.

Alex glances down and sees a thrasher board resting next to her.  (Note:

Depending on the terrain of each level, the thrasher board will adjust

itself...working as a skateboard, snowboard, or hover board).

ON ALEX'S RIGHT CYBERGLOVE

is an LED display.  In the upper left-hand corner it says "LEVEL ONE".  To

the right, two pulsing bars of light labeled "TIME ELAPSED" and

"STRENGTH".

At this very moment, the "TIME ELAPSED" bar is just shrinking away to

nothing.

BLINK!  Now it's gone.

No rest for the weary.

A SHRIEK/SONIC BOOM

is immediately heard on the horizon, and it's the most god-awful noise

we've ever heard.  It fills up the world.

ALEX

jerks her head up, terrified.

All around her, the world begins to vibrate...

SOMETHING

is rushing towards her now at an unbelievable speed.  The SHRIEK/SONIC

BOOM is deafening.  The world is shaking apart.

And suddenly the thing is upon her!

Alex SCREAMS.

INT.  ALEX'S ROOM - NIGHT

Alex flies back from the t.v. screen, violently ripping the goggles and

CyberGloves off.  But the SHRIEK is continuing and then she realizes

that...

The phone is RINGING.

Alex stops shaking.  The phone continues to RING.  She's back in her room.

Everything's fine.  Normal.

She glances at the game.

ON SCREEN

we see the black again, black with sparks racing past. Benign.

Alex reaches over and picks up the phone, all the while keeping her eyes

glued to the screen.

Alex clutches the phone, still shaking.

Alex continues to watch the television screen, almost mesmerized by the

flickering sparks.  Her eyes begin to glaze over...

Alex snaps out of it, tearing her gaze from the screen

Alex quickly hangs up the phone and moves back to the television.  She

reaches for the control box and hits the "OFF" switch.

Nothing happens.  Sparks continue to shoot across the screen.

Alex tries it again.  Same result.

Again and again she hits the button, but nothing is happening.

Alex reaches behind the t.v., grabs hold of the electrical cords, and

YANKS.

The fucking cord won't come out!

And then she hears it, an ELECTRONIC WHISPER, both seductive and horrific.

With all her might, Alex pulls on the cords. POP!  They fling out of the

t.v. and the screen goes dead.

Alex sits back against the wall for a moment, catching her breath and

trying to calm the rising hysteria within her.

Alex stands up, grabbing her coat off the bed.

INT.  MANNING HOUSE, LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Alex comes down the stairs, heading for the front door. Only she stops for

a moment...noticing the LIGHT.

ON THE COUCH,

her father is once again bathed in the blue light of the television.

STATIC WHISPERS, the same as before, are coming from the set.

Alex looks at her father.  He hasn't moved.  And yet, the t.v. is on once

again.

THE SCREEN

Blue static.  Unexceptional.  And a face?  Someone in the static?

Alex draws closer to the screen.  She can hear SOMETHING now, other than

static whispers.  Sounds kind of like a VOICE...

THE SCREEN

A definite, ghostly FACE is there.  It turns, looks at Alex (us) and it's

Greg.

Alex jerks and SNAPS off the t.v., spooked as hell.  She stands in the

darkness and all but runs out of the house.

EXT.  MANNING HOUSE - NIGHT

Alex races to the Skylark and fumbles with the keys. Finally she gets it

right, guns the gas, and rips out of the driveway.

A STREETLIGHT

above is FLICKERING wildly.  Sputtering, HUMMING, casting strange shadows

across the street.

EXT.  NICK DRAKE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Alex has climbed up to the roof, using a wood pile stacked beside the

house as a boost.  Now she creeps towards a second-story window.

Behind her on the street (and this should be subtle, folks), another

STREETLIGHT is flickering.

WINDOW

It looks in on Nick's room.  Alex draws close and TAPS on the glass.

Nick appears immediately, grinning like an idiot.  He raises the window.

Alex climbs in.

INT.  NICK'S ROOM -- NIGHT

The room is an intricate shrine to Nick's obsession...computers and

computer-generated images.  An entire wall is covered with a collage of

cut-out pictures from magazines.  On his shelves are miniature

armatures...flexible models of human musculature.

And of course, there is Nick's computer set-up.

Even as Alex climbs down onto Nick's bed, she notices that his computer is

up and running...connected to the ARCADE home version.

Nick turns back to the computer monitor.

FRACTALS

(as seen earlier) are blossoming on the screen.

Nick pulls Alex closer.  She's wary.  But Nick is suitably impressed,

excited even.

And in truth, the fractals are beautiful.

Alex turns back to Nick.  And for the first time, Nick stops grinning.

It's clear that Alex is upset.

Nick sits down on his bed.

Alex glances at the computer monitor again.  On the lower right-hand side

is a little pulsing GREEN light, on and off, on and off, like a heartbeat.

Nick is taken aback, but he rises and turns off the computer all the same.

And this time, the game stays off.  Nick comes back to the bed.

The look on Nick's face says it all.  He moves to speak and she stops him.

Alex is furious.  She rises and begins pacing back and forth, voice

growing louder.  She draws in close.

Alex spins around and points at the computer monitor.

THE MONITOR

ARCADE is back on again, fractals unfolding and green monitor light

blinking.

ON NICK

Okay.  Alright.  This does throw him for a second.

Nick crosses to the monitor and flips the "OFF" switch.  He tries it again

and again, but the game won't turn off.

Nick spins around, angry, maybe a little freaked out.

Silence for a moment.  Nick takes a deep breath.  Over-reacted.  After a

moment...

Nick acquiesces.  He pulls out his phone and punches in a number.

Nick and Alex watch each other in silence as the connection is made.  We

can faintly hear the phone RINGING.

No answer.

Alex turns away, sinking to Nick's bed.  All the anger has drained out of

her.  She knows they won't reach them.

ON NICK

As he listens for an answer.  Three RINGS, four, five... He hangs up.

Punches in the final number.

Again.  No answer.

Nick hangs up and sets the phone aside.  He looks at Alex.

Nick shrugs.  He's not willing to accept anything, but he's uncomfortable

all the same.

Alex rises.  She's tired.  Tired and scared.

And then, more for himself than for her.

She turns and climbs back out the window onto the roof. Then she ducks her

head back in.

Then she's gone.  Nick moves over and watches.

NICK'S P.O.V.

As Alex drops down from the roof and makes her way to Greg's car.  The

streetlight outside is still flickering.

Nick turns back to his room.  Moves back to the monitor and watches the

fractals unfolding.

He gives the "OFF" switch a token try.  Nothing.

THE FRACTALS

We move in on them, losing ourselves in the labyrinth of swirling colors

and we...

INT.  HIGH-SCHOOL LIBRARY -- DAY

ALEX

moves down the aisles of books, dwarfed by shelves which reach clear to

the ceiling.  She looks a little haggard, like she hasn't had any sleep.

She turns...

NICK AND STILTS

are sitting at a study cubicle.  Nick looks equally tired, but Stilts is

jawing away.

As Alex joins them, Nick looks up.

Nick shrugs, looking elsewhere.

Alex nods, glaring at Nick.  His reluctance to believe her is

understandable, but the events unfolding are scaring him.

Alex reaches into her bag and pulls out a sheet of paper with names on it.

Stilts starts HUMMING The Twilight Zone theme.

Alex softens, then reaches for Nick's hand.

Nick and Alex rise.

Stilts thinks Nick and Alex are involved in some sort of joke, but he's

playing along, grinning.

The grins fades from Stilts' face.  Nick is definitely not laughing.

Nick spins around and takes Alex by the arm, leading her away.

EXT.  BENZ' HOUSE -- DAY

Nick sits in the passenger seat of Greg's car, glancing across the street

at...

ALEX

She's standing on the front porch of Benz' house, talking with his MOM.

Mom is currently shaking her head.  Alex turns away and heads back towards

Nick.  She comes around the Skylark and pulls open her door.

Alex remains calm.  She sits for a moment, staring ahead. Finally she puts

the key in the ignition.

EXT.  LAURIE'S HOUSE -- DAY

Alex pulls the Skylark into Laurie's driveway.  The house is run down.

You wouldn't want to live here.  Above, the sky has clouded over.  It

looks like it's going to get nasty.

Nick follows Alex to the front door and Alex hits the buzzer.

Alex tries the buzzer again.  Persistently.

Alex looks close to cracking.  There's a desperation in her face.

Before Nick can stop her, Alex is running around to the back.

EXT.  LAURIE'S HOUSE, BACK PORCH -- DAY

The backyard is in a sorry state, with junk strewn everywhere.  There's a

cannibalized car, piles of scrap wood, and a swing-set that's hopelessly

rusted.

Alex winds her way to the back porch and a set of dusty glass doors.  She

steps up and clears a spot to look through.

Nick joins her at the window, peering inside.

THEIR P.O.V.

They are looking into a cluttered living room, dark except for the light

that's issuing from the television.  The television faces away from us,

but we can see Laurie, siting in front of it, mesmerized.

LAURIE

She looks like shit.  Wan, with sunken eyes and mussed up hair.  Mascara

has run down her cheeks, and even now, tears are trickling from her eyes.

Yet despite this, there's a dazed smile on her face.  We can't hear her,

but she seems to be talking to the television.

ALEX

steps back a moment, concerned.

She taps on the window.

INSIDE,

Laurie continues to watch the screen, oblivious to the rest of the world.

Alex TAPS the harder, using her fist now.

Nick joins Alex now, and the two of them are banging on the glass.

There's no way in hell Laurie wouldn't be able to hear them.

Alex steps back from the window again, panicking.

Alex looks around, sees a two-by-four, and snags it.

Alex swings the two-by-four like a club and SMASH!!!  Down comes the glass

in a shower.

INT. LAURIE'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY

Alex and Nick enter and immediately sense that something is wrong.

The LIGHT from the t.v. screen continues to flicker and a low-pitched

electric HUM permeates the air...the sound a live wire might make.  And

the HUM seems to be mobile too, coursing through the walls...up, down, and

around Alex and Nick.

Nick's eyes try to track the HUM as it races overhead.

And as Nick speaks, his breath escapes his mouth in a frosty plume of

mist.  It's cold in here too.

Laurie, meanwhile, has failed to notice Alex and Nick's arrival.  Alex and

Nick step further in, to get a view of the t.v.

STATIC

fills the screen.  Static and strange WHISPER/VOICES.  It's all

indistinct.

Laurie's face is a mess.  Tears are running down, but she's grinning all

the same.  It's frightening.

Laurie points to the t.v. screen.

But we see only static.

As Alex reaches for the "OFF" knob, a face coalesces out of the static.

It's Greg again.

AND ON THE SCREEN,

Greg's face metamorphosizes into ARCADE's!

And even as ARCADE speaks, the VOICE seems to come from all around them,

from the HUMMING coursing through the walls.

Nick backs away from the screen, petrified.

The HUMMING around them has increased.  Laurie begins to shake.

Alex snatches up the remote control and stabs the buttons.

ON SCREEN

Every single channel portrays the fractals. recombining and growing.

The screen flickers and ARCADE's face appear again, reestablishing

control.

The word reverberates through the room and HUMMING has become a ROAR

around them.  An ELECTRICAL storm.

OUTLETS

around the room are crackling with energy, spitting out SPARKS.

Alex drops the remote, stunned.

Nick's eyes find the cable wire extending from the wall and into the t.v.

Sure enough, SPARKS are crackling down that wire and into the wall.

ARCADE LAUGHS and it's the most awful sound we've ever heard.

LAURIE

is convulsing now, and tiny SPARKS are racing around her eyes.

Alex sees her and SCREAMS, clutching her hands to her ears in an attempt

to block out the deafening ROAR.

NICK

moves without thinking, picking up a nearby chair and SLAMMING it into the

television.  It EXPLODES glass, sparks, and smoke.

The HUMMING stops altogether, quiet now.  And then, from everywhere at

once...

With a final ROAR, the energy behind the walls whips around and around,

then rushes away.

OUTSIDE,

Nick catches a quick glimpse of SPARKS racing across the telephone wires

suspended above the back yard.

Total silence for a moment.  Alex and Nick are too stunned to speak.  Then

Alex looks at Laurie.

LAURIE

lies on the ground, unconscious.  Glass scattered all around her.

Alex drops to her side, trying to find a pulse...anything.

Alex nods.

Alex glances around.  The room is a mess.  All the outlet are singed.  And

now she notices that everything electronic...t.v., clock, thermostat...all

of them have exploded open.

Alex slowly rises, reluctant to leave Laurie's side.

EXT.  NICK'S HOUSE -- DAY

As Alex and Nick pull up, the streetlights BUZZ on and off even though

it's still daylight.  This doesn't escape Nick's notice.

Alex parks the car and the two of them jump out.

EXT. NICK'S BACKYARD -- DAY

Nick leads Alex to a cellar door and down inside.

INT. NICK'S CELLAR -- DAY

Rear the doorway is an old, paint-caked fuse box.  Nick pries it open and

begins unscrewing fuses.

Nick steps back.

Alex nods.  She lifts her digital watch up and sets her timer with a BEEP.

EXT.  NICK'S HOUSE -- DAY

Alex sits on the hood of the Skylark watching the streetlight above with a

wary eye.  She glances at her watch.  About a minute and a half has

elapsed and...

Here's Nick now, carrying a lap-top computer and a modem hook-up.  Nick

sets the equipment in the back seat.

EXT.  SHOPPING MALL, PAY-PHONE -- DAY

Nick sets up his lab-top inside the phone booth as Alex watches.  He hooks

up the modem to the phone receiver and turns the machine on.

THE SMALL SCREEN

warms up, and in black and white, we see the same FRACTALS. Nick flips off

the lap-top and sighs.

Nick nods.  He grabs his skateboard out of the back seat and sits on the

curb, spinning a wheel with his finger.  He stares at the wheel a moment.

Alex looks up into the sky despite herself.

Alex stalks off a few paces.  Thinking.  Thinking...

At this, Nick perks up.

EXT.  SLIP-STREAM, INC. -- DAY

The SLIP-STREAM compound comprises a cluster of mirrored,

antiseptic-looking buildings.  Carefully maintained greens surround the

compound, dotted with perfectly positioned trees.  The whole effect,

greenery included, seems prefabricated and sterile.  We move with the

camera, sweeping in and dropping low, across the main concourse and up the

stone steps to the main lobby...

INT. SLIP-STREAM LOBBY -- DAY

Alex and Nick are moving across the lobby.  Nick is still carrying his

skateboard.  The two of them look extremely out of place, being that the

rest of the people bustling around them are "dressed for success".

THEIR P.O.V.

as they approach a prefab RECEPTIONIST sitting behind and enormous desk.

The guy's smile is so perfect he must've had it tattooed on.  He wears one

of those obnoxious phone/headsets.

Nick reaches across the desk and snags the receptionist by his shirt,

jerking him forward.

The receptionist glances at Alex who puts on a stern face and nods.

Nick releases his grip.  The receptionist smooths out his shirt and

smiles.

The receptionist clasps his hands together and looks back up.

Alex and Nick move away from the reception desk, having caused quite a

scene.  The rest of the VISITORS watch them with curiosity.

Nick casts his eyes over the walls where graphics from various SLIP-STREAM

games are displayed.  He stops on one display in particular, a triptych of

sorts featuring the haunting face of ARCADE.

BING!

Alex and Nick turn at the sound, just in time to see Difford exiting an

elevator and briskly making his way towards them.

Difford laughs and claps Nick on the back.

Beat.  Difford looks from Alex to Nick, and back again. His smile fades

from his face.

INT.  DIFFORD'S OFFICE -- DAY

Difford closes the doors behind him.  He stares and Alex and Nick for a

moment, assessing, calculating risks...

At this Difford breaks into a smile.  Nick sees this and acts quickly to

save the situation.

Alex has caught on.  She shuts up for the moment.

INT.  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT -- DAY

Hardly what you'd expect.  The lab is hopelessly cluttered, as if a

whirlwind had swept inside and thrown everything helter-skelter.  Difford

leads Nick and Alex inside.

A MAN sets in front of a stack on monitors.  One his head is a helmet-like

instrument...sort of an extension of the stereoscopic goggles.  He wears a

lab-coat and a SLIP-STREAM I.D. badge, but aside from that, his appearance

is unkempt.  Kind of your 60s drop-out look.

He moves his head this way and that...

THE MONITORS

A computer-animated TURTLE is crawling across the screen. Then the words

"TIME'S UP" flash over.  The turtle flips onto it's back and dies, tongue

hanging out.

ALBERT turns around in his seat and pulls off the helmet.

Difford exits.  Nick points to the helmet in Albert's hands.

Albert moves back to the wall of monitors, then reaches for a computer

disk and inserts it into a nearby drive.  He taps a few buttons and

BINGO...

SCHEMATICS

of each world/level within the ARCADE game appear on the monitors.

He motions cutting a knife across his throat.

Albert hits some keys again and Levels One through Six disappear.  Now

they're replaced by Seven through Ten. Only instead of a schematic for

Level Eleven, there's only a question matc.

Alex looks dejected.

At this, a chill runs down Alex's spine.

Nick glances at the helmet again.

Nick nods and smiles, offering his hand.

Albert moves back to the computer console.  Meanwhile, Nick pulls Alex

aside.

ACROSS THE LAB,

Albert is oblivious to their conversation.

Alex backs towards the lab doors, turns, and opens them.

INT. SLIP-STREAM HALLWAY - DAY

Alex makes her way quickly down the hall, turning a corner and passing a

SECURITY GUARD.  She waves at him, her smile fading as soon as she's

passed.

INT. R&D LAB - DAY

Albert is just pulling the last printed copy of the schematics from a

laser printer.  He turns and hands them to Nick.

Nick takes the schematics and tucks them inside his jacket.

And with that, Nick pulls back his fist and punches Albert square in the

face.

Albert goes down, more stunned than hurt, and Nick springs into action.

He scoops up the CyberHelmet in his free hand, kicks open the doors, and

tosses his skateboard into the hallway...

INT. SLIP-STREAM HALLWAY - DAY

Nick leaps on the board and starts pumping his foot like a bandit, picking

up speed like mad...

He's racing down the hallway, maneuvering between startled EMPLOYEES.  And

here comes a MAN with a mail cart...

WHOOSH!  Nick zips by him.  And now an ALARM is ringing.

INT. ANOTHER HALLWAY - DAY

Nick comes SCREECHING around the corner, narrowly missing a collision with

two SECURITY GUARDS.

But Nick's already past them.  He puts his foot down again, pushing for

more momentum...

THE GUARDS

are after him now, CHARGING down the hallway.

UP AHEAD,

A set of double doors labeled "EMERGENCY EXIT" blocks his way.

Nick spins out, sweeping the back of the board forward and SCREAMS to a

stop just before the doors.  He kicks the board up into his free hand

and...

WHAM!  He hits the doors running.  Now the FIRE ALARM is blaring in

addition to the other alarm.  A VOICE is squawking over the P.A. and it's

a hell of a racket.

INT. STAIRWELL -- DAY

Nick is charging down the stairs four and a time...  One level, two...

Now he's reached ground floor...

INT. GROUND FLOOR HALLWAY - DAY

BOOM!  Nick tumbles out of the stairwell only to see a trio of GUARDS

heading straight for him.

Nick drops his board to the ground and heads right, pumping his foot...

One of the GUARDS leaps at him and...

...misses by a foot or so, CRASHING to the tile floor.

NICK

SCREECHES to another stop, TWISTS, and starts pumping down another

hallway...

INT. LOADING AREA -- DAY

Nick plows into the loading area like a bullet, whipping around stacks of

boxes and lumbering forklifts.  A few WORKERS attempt to stop him, but

he's moving too fast.

AHEAD,

is a loading dock, raised four feet from the ground to accommodate semis.

Nick's heading for it.  The loading door is open, and outside is freedom.

JUST THEN,

the steel loading door begins to GRIND and lower.  Some genius has hit the

controls.

NICK

pumps like mad, and he's really moving now.  Either he'll make it, or he's

going to hit that steel door at about forty miles and hour...

THE DOOR

is quickly closing off Nick's escape route.  He's only got about four feet

to negotiate...

Nick ducks low and clears it!

EXT. LOADING DOCK -- DAY

Nick ROCKETS off the loading dock, through the air and down, hitting the

concrete driveway.  The driveway peels off to the left and slopes

downward.

Nick hangs tight, hugs the curve, and picks up more speed.

BELOW,

the driveway splits off.  To the left, SLIP-STREAM's main building, and to

the right, the parking lot.

GUARDS

are piled into an electric cart, SPEEDING up from the left to cut Nick

off.  It's going to be close...

Nick forks off to the right dust before they reach him.

It's clear sailing now, and up ahead, Nick can see Alex pulling up to the

end of the driveway...

WHOOSH!  Nick scrapes the board forward, grinding the wheels sideways in

order to slow his speed...

He leaps. picking the board up with him. and dunks himself smack-dab in

the back seat of the Skylark.

ALEX

guns the engine and tears away in a cloud of exhaust.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY

Nick is in the back seat, LAUGHING.  The sun is beginning its descent and

the sky is taking on a reddish tint.

Nick climbs into the front seat next to Alex, and for a second, he's

pretty close to her.  He kisses her on the cheek...caught up in the

moment.  Then he sinks back, catching his breath.

Neither one speaks for a moment as the mood dampens once again.  Driving.

Wind whipping Alex's hair around.  She stares at the road ahead.

Nick doesn't answer at first.  For a second there, he'd managed to forget

everything.

OVERHEAD,

as we watch Alex's Skylark speed away from us.  Shadows are creeping

across the landscape now.  Streetlights are flickering, sputtering on.

And night is falling.

EXT. DANTE'S INFERNO -- NIGHT

Sweeping down from the sky, we follow The Skylark.  As Alex and Nick near

The Inferno, streetlights blink off in succession... progressive darkness

working its way towards their destination.

DANTE'S INFERNO

We move past the painted walls, the various demons illuminated by

moonlight.

Alex and Nick rush to the front door.  It's gated.  Inside, The Inferno is

totally dark.  Shadows.

EXT.  DANTE'S INFERNO ROOF - NIGHT

Alex and Nick creep over the roof, and sure enough, there's a skylight in

the center, caked with grime.

Nick stands and plants his foot through the skylight.  It SHATTERS,

raining down glass into the darkness below.

Nick pulls off his belt and hooks it around one of the iron sash bars.

Gripping the belt, he lowers himself down. After a moment, he disappears

from view.

Alex leans over the skylight.  She can't see a thing.

For the longest moment there's no response.  Then...

Alex climbs over and grasps the belt tightly, lowering herself down into

The Inferno.

INT.  DANTE'S INFERNO -- NIGHT

Alex dangles from the skylight, a good eight feet from the floor.

HER P.O.V.

The Inferno is a world of threatening shapes and shadows. And Nick is

nowhere to be seen.

Alex steels herself and drops to the floor.

She stands, a bit shaky, and cautiously moves around a cluster of video

games.

NICK

is standing on the other side, staring at a game screen which pulses with

a DIM LIGHT.

Alex approaches, putting a hand on his shoulder.  He turns.

Nick shakes his head.  Alex leans forward to see what he's looking at.

ON THE SCREEN

fractals are unfolding.  It's mesmerizing.

Nick shuts his eyes, pulling away from the screen.  He shakes his head,

trying to clear his thoughts.

It's at that moment that Nick and Alex hear the VOICES.

VIDEO SCREENS

all around them flicker on, static-laced IMAGES fading in. They are the

faces of their friends...Greg, Laurie, and many others.  All those that

have disappeared.  The VOICES fade in and out, merging with one another,

tinged with the same mechanical edge of ARCADE's voice.

Nick grabs Alex and pulls her into the canter of the room.

Despite Nick's words, we can tell that the VOICES are having a

disheartening effect on him.

THE ARCADE

prototype stands in front of them now, and surprisingly, the machine is

not on.  The eyes in the leering black face are quite dead.

Around Alex and Nick, the faces of their friends continue to fade in and

out, casting the whole room in a strange shimmering blue light.

Nick moves to the back of the machine and opens the access panel,

revealing the internal circuitry.  He pulls a small penlight from his

pocket and flips it on.

NICK'S P.O.V.

And indeed there are.  Parallel interfaces, where you might hook a printer

cable into a computer.  Nick takes the cable from the CyberHelmet and

secures it into one of the interfaces.

He stands and moves around front, pressing the "START" button of the game.

Nothing happens.

He presses it again.  Nothing.

Nick checks.  It is.

Nick rifles through his pockets.  He doesn't have a quarter.  Neither does

Alex.

Nick moves over to the change machine and picks up a nearby chair.  He

SMASHES the chair into the face of the machine again and again,

obliterating the lock.  Nick opens the front of the machine and tears out

the coin box, spilling quarters all over the floor.  He grabs a handful

and returns.

He shoves one in ARCADE's coin-slot and pulls on the CyberGloves.

Nick straps the goggles over his eyes.

Alex grabs a second quarter and shoves it in the coin slot.

Nick stares at her a moment, then nods tiredly.  She reaches for the

second pair of CyberGloves and pulls them on.

The two of them stand there a moment, looking at one another.  After a

moment, Nick laughs tiredly.

Nick reaches out for the joy-stick and hits the "START" button.

As before, the screen comes to life.  Darkness and sparks. Then we hear

the BREATHING.

ARCADE'S FACE

spins into view, grinning at Alex and Nick.

ARCADE laughs and it's not a sound you'd want to hear twice.

THE LIGHTBEAM

clicks on, playing over their faces and analyzing their features.

ON SCREEN

ARCADE'S face spins away and computer-generated versions of Alex and Nick

appear.  As before, they are suited up in video game armor, each carrying

a thrasher board.

The video versions of Nick and Alex hop onto their thrasher boards and the

world around them curls in upon itself.

The process is similar to what we've seen before, but even more extreme.

LIGHTS and SOUNDS are pouring out of the ARCADE machine in almost

unbearable intensities.  It seems as if the "real" world is going to be

shaken apart.

ANOTHER FLASH OF LIGHT AND...

Alex and Nick disappear from the real world completely. Their equipment,

gloves and goggles, fall to the floor, empty.  They've been physically

sucked inside the game!

The light from the screen dies down now and everything is oddly quiet.

ON SCREEN

BOOM!  Suddenly a circuit grid is rushing up to meet them!

(Note:  As we move through each level, video legends will appear on the

screen as title cards, enhancing the effect that we are actually inside a

video game.)

The words "LEVEL ONE -- BLOOD RED SKY" flash across the screen and we...

EXT.  LEVEL ONE, THE PLAINS -- DAY

Alex and Nick slam into the ground like twin meteors, splashing up water

and muck.

THE RED SKY

crackles with LIGHTNING.  Smoke obscures everything. Alex and Nick pull

themselves up, a bit dazed.

Alex nods.

Nick leans over and gently kisses Alex on the lips.  It's over in a

moment, but he'll savor it the rest of his life.

Nick flips the visor on his helmet down and checks the digital read-out on

his CyberGlove.  When he speaks, his VOICE is filtered through a radio

headset.  Nick looks good in his armor, tough.  Hell, they both do.

Nick tosses his thrasher board down and it hovers above the water.  He

steps onto it, comfortable.  Alex does the same. She's a little shaky, but

she maintains her balance.

Nick turns, looking around.  The land seems identical in every direction.

Nick panics for a moment, patting his uniform, checking pockets.  He can't

find them.

He stops.  Reaches into a pocket, and pulls out the schematics.  Breathes

a sigh of relief.

She looks at Nick, uncertain.

Alex glances at her wrist display.  The "ELAPSED TIME" bar is made up of

ten blocks of light stacked upon each other. The top block has

disappeared.  One tenth of their time is gone.

Nick leans forward and the board starts to float.  Alex does the same, and

in seconds, they're gliding over the plains.

FROM ABOVE,

as we see their forms disappear in the smoke.

EXT. LEVEL ONE, PLAINS -- LATER

Nick and Alex pull to a stop.

A DOORWAY

stands in the plains, seemingly leading to nowhere.  Nick reaches out and

opens it.  It's just plains and empty space beyond...

...but hanging from the top of the doorway is a golden key.

She reaches up and pulls it down.

Alex puts her hand through the doorway and her hand disappears.

Nick glances at his wrist display.

She steps through the doorway and disappears.  Nick follows.

We hold on the empty doorway.  Hold for a moment, and then...

We hear a distant, high-pitched RINGING.  It's grating, seeping inside our

brains and mucking around in there.  On the horizon there is a quick FLASH

OF LIGHT.

Something is coming.

The words "LEVEL TWO -- DEADLANDS"

EXT.  LEVEL TWO, SALT FLATS -- DAY

Alex and Nick are cruising along salt flats.  Sporadic pools of water and

strange ROARING sounds in the mist.  So far so good. Nick glances at his

wrist display.  His "STRENGTH" only has a few blocks left.

She points North.  A small BALL OF LIGHT is streaking across the sky, just

above the watery plains.

Alex and Nick swerve towards it, gaining ground.  As they near it, Nick

swings out his hand, scooping the Firefly up. As soon as he touches it, it

bursts like a bubble.

Nick does.  His "STRENGTH" is back to normal again.

Nick and Alex slow their boards to a stop, stepping off them.

She sweeps left and scoops the second Firefly out of the sky.  Off in the

distance we can hear that RINGING again, just at the edge of our vision.

Alex and Nick don't hear it yet.

Nick is glancing down at his schematic of Level Two.

THEIR P.O.V.

The salt flats have gradually diminished, replaced by more and more water.

Ahead of them, there's no longer anything solid to stand on...just water,

muck, and strange reeds poking through the mist.

Alex's wrist display begins to BEEP.  She glances down.

WRIST DISPLAY

Only one block of time remains and it's pulsing on and off. The RINGING is

a little louder now.

The two of them stumble through the water, not even sure of what they're

looking for.

Alex and Nick's wrist displays are BEEPING like crazy now. The beeps come

closer and closer until they meld into one piercing high-pitched TONE.

JUST THEN,

the RINGING turns into the SHRIEK/SONIC BOOM of the Screamer.  A burst of

light on the horizon shatters the sky.

ALEX

plunges into the marsh-like water, waist-high, and it's then that she sees

a glow emanating from beneath the water. She dives forward...

BENEATH THE SURFACE OF THE BRACKISH WATER

Alex swims towards the GLOW.  Ahead of her, the depths drop off sharply,

perhaps some hundred feet or so.

HER P.O.V.

She can just make out a doorway...down, down, down...

THE SURFACE

Alex bursts up from the water, gulping in breaths of air. Nick is nearby.

THE WORLD

is beginning is vibrate now, heralding the Screamer.  The SHRIEK is

unbearable.

Nick stumbles in up to his neck.  He can see the GLOW now too.

Alex dives beneath the surface again.

Nick glances back towards the horizon and gets one fleeting glimpse of...

THE SCREAMER

A nightmare creation rocketing in from the East... That's it for Nick.  He

dives, terrified.

UNDERWATER,

Nick follows Alex into the shadowy depths.  He swims madly, but the GLOW

seems impossibly far away.  Even under water, the Apocalyptic sound of the

Screamer can be heard.

NICK

peddles his arms and legs furiously.  Down, down, down...

He knows that they'll never have enough air to make it back to the

surface.

THE GLOW

is more clearly distinguished now.  It's a DOORWAY.  And set in its side

is a golden key.  Alex reaches it.  She grabs the key and turns to see how

far behind Nick is...

NICK

doubles his efforts, but his lungs are straining...

THE SCREAMER

has plunged into the water above, shooting towards Nick like a torpedo, a

swirling jet-stream of bubbles trailing around it.

Nick panics, and what little air he has left escapes him.

Alex is reaching for Nick...

Nick is blacking out, one last lunge at the doorway...

The Screamer is there now.  No time.

The words "LEVEL THREE -- THE BLUE DESERT" flash across the screen and

we...

EXT.  LEVEL THREE, DESERT -- DAY

Alex and Nick fall from the sky onto the dunes.  They lie there a moment,

gasping for breath.  They're an odd sight, two people soaked from head to

toe, dropped in the middle of a bone-dry desert...

...and a blue one at that.  There's an eerie stillness about this Level,

even the clouds above are frozen. Nothing lives here now, and nothing ever

will.

Nick coughs, sucking in air.

Alex rises halfway, pulling up her visor.  She stares at the golden key

which she clutches in her hand.  Her wet hair hangs about her face in

strings and she shivers.

Nick glances at his wrist display.

DISPLAY

Even as he watches, the first of the ten "TIME ELAPSED" blocks blinks

away.

Nick heaves himself up into a standing position and looks around.  They

are on the top of a massive dune.

THEIR THRASHER BOARDS

now looks like snowboards.  It doesn't take Nick long to figure out what

to do.

Nick steps on the board and edges it over the crest of the dune.  He

begins to slide down, slowly picking up speed.

A SERIES OF SHOTS...

...as Alex and Nick negotiate the dunes.  They glide over the sand

gracefully, cutting back left and right to keep their speed down, sweeping

in wide arcs...

Under any other circumstances, they'd be having the time of their lives.

Alex has adjusted to the environment quickly, at ease of the

Thrasherboard.

LATER --

The dunes gradually level out.  Alex and Nick slow to a stop.

Alex flips up her visor.  Her face is covered with grime now, hardened.

They pick up their boards and walk.

EXT.  LEVEL THREE, DESERT -- LATER

Alex and Nick have been walking for a long time.  Nick is silent, just

staring straight ahead at the endless sand. He looks wasted.  Zoned out.

His face is beaded with sweat.

Once again, their wrist displays begin to BEEP.

Nick starts to LAUGH, sinking to his knees.

Alex pulls on Nick's arm, forcing him to his feet.

Nick isn't going anywhere fast.  Alex tries to drag him forward, but she

slips in the sand.

And then, from off in the distance...

Alex turns.  She focuses on the horizon and sees a tiny speck.  She taps a

control on her helmet and her view is magnified.

ALEX'S P.O.V.

Benz is up ahead. buried up to his waist in the blue sand and sinking

quickly.  He waves his hands for help. and clutched in one of them is the

second key.

Alex breaks into a run, and after a moment, Nick follows. He's walking,

though...in no hurry to reach Benz.

ON BENZ

The desert is swallowing him up.  Only his head and arms remain.  He's in

a state of total panic.

ALEX

is running at top speed, half-stumbling across the dunes. Her

wrist-display is BEEPING furiously.

BENZ

His head starts to disappear beneath the sand and his cries are choked

off.

Alex reaches the spot and now, only Benz' clutched fist remains.  The hand

opens and the gold key falls onto the sand.

Alex DIVES for Benz' hand, but it sinks just before she can reach it.  She

SCREAMS and claws at the sand, trying to find him.  She digs and digs, but

all she finds is more sand.  With each second she becomes more frantic.

Finally Alex stops, noticing the key and idly picking it up.

THE SAND

around Alex ERUPTS and BONES come flying up into the air, Benz' bones!

Alex SCREAMS.  The bones rain down around her in bloody fragments.  It's

as if the Earth has chewed Benz up and spit out the nasty bits.

At that very moment, the BEEPS on her wrist-display meld into the single

tone heralding...

THE SCREAMER

As if on cue, it enters Level Two, breaking the Sound Barrier.

ON NICK

As he stands some hundred feet away, oblivious to everything.  We can hear

Alex SCREAMING, but the sound is muffled, distant.  Nick is staring down

at his feet at an area where the sand has hardened like glass.  Inside the

sand/glass, Nick can make out fractals.  He smiles.

THE SCREAMER

streaks across the sky towards them, blowing up a maelstrom of sand as it

crosses the dunes...

ON ALEX

as she sees that a rabbit hole of sorts has been created where the bones

were ejected.  Actually, not a rabbit hole, but a circular, pulsing mouth

with razor sharp teeth.  Alex realizes, much to her horror, that this is

the doorway to Level Three!

Alex shouts at Nick, trying to break the spell over him.

But the Screamer is bearing down on him, like a heat-seeking missile...

ON NICK

as he watches the fractals.  ARCADE'S face appears in the mirrored sand,

smiling back at him.

At the last possible moment, Nick seems to wake from his trance.  He sees

Alex, hears her, then turns.  He has about one fear-wrought second to

realize that the Screamer has reached him when...

WHAM!!!!!!!!!

The Screamer SLAMS into Nick at about 200 miles per hour. Nick, literally,

liquefies.  The human body is 95% water, and Nick EXPLODES like a water

balloon on high impact, blood spraying in a fine mist across the dunes,

Alex, and everything for a good fifty yards.

Alex is frozen with terror.  You remember your worst childhood nightmare

monster?  The one you'd see in your room at night as your brain cooked

with fever?  Too paralyzed to call out for Mom?  Well that's the Screamer.

THE SCREAMER

stands where Nick used to be (a red mess on the blue sand now).  Black as

night.  Like living, roiling lava. Smoking, charged RED EYES.  One third

demon, one third Balrog, and one third rotting corpse.  Clad in chains and

samurai armor, CLINKING as it moves.  It rear back its head, opens a

fanged mouth, and lets loose a ROAR designed to shake the stars from the

sky.

Then it focuses it's eyes on Alex.  And it charges.

ALEX

unfreezes.  She's got seconds to make up her mind, the doorway/mouth or

the Screamer.  It's really no choice at all.  Alex turns and dives

straight down into the pulsing mouth.

The jaws of the rabbit hole SNAP shut around her.  Darkness consumes

everything.

These words appear on screen, "LEVEL THREE -- TOWER OF GHOSTS"

EXT.  LEVEL FOUR, VOLCANO -- DAY

We are looking at a steep cliff face composed of black, volcanic rock.

This world is desaturated, gray, and harsh. The rocks looks sharp as

razors.

As we will discover, the cliff face is also composed of skulls, old and

blackened, set inside the rock.

We hear a HUMMING and Alex "fades in", appearing on the side of the cliff

face.  Immediately she starts to fall, realizes where she is, and hugs the

cliff for dear life. Rock shards crumble away beneath her feet.  Alex

looks down ...

Big mistake.

She hugs the cliff face tighter, tears and grime streaking her face. She's

alone now and she knows it.  She looks up ...

It's a long way to go.

Alex reaches a hand upward.  Ouch!  The rock's hot.  She jerks her hand

back and almost loses her perch.

HER HAND

Her gloves are smoking and singed.

Alex starts to cry freely now.  She reaches inside her chestplate,

fumbling, and pulls something out...

It's the Polaroid of her and Greg.  But then the wind catches it and tears

it from her hand.

THE POLAROID

twists downward, round and round into infinity.

Alex stares after it a moment.  Then she lets out a tired little laugh and

starts to climb.

A SERIES OF DISSOLVES...

as Alex climbs, sometimes using a skull itself as a hand or foothold.

We see her "TIME ELAPSED" blocks blinking away.

Time running out and more climbing.  Then...

EXT.  LEVEL FOUR, VOLCANO RIM -- DAY

Alex stands on the rim of the volcano.  At her feet is a golden key.  And

before her, a big drop.

ALEX'S WRIST DISPLAY

Her final block of time disappears.  The BEEPING starts.

Alex doesn't even pause.  She steps off the rim into empty space...

...and just as she's about to fall, a doorway of light appears in the air.

Alex falls through it, vanishing.

"LEVEL FIVE -- KINGDOM OF THE BLIND"

EXT.  LEVEL FIVE, ARCTIC WASTES -- DAY

Snow whips across a world of white in wraith-like sheets. We move in on

one particular bank...

Something is buried there.  The wind gradually blows the snow away,

uncovering...

ALEX

She rises from the snow bank, disoriented.  Everything is impossibly

bright, blinding.  Alex stands.  She draws up her hand to shade her eyes

and we...

BEGIN MONTAGE:

EXT.  LEVEL FIVE, ARCTIC WASTES -- LATER

Alex glides to a stop even as her wrist display starts to BEEP.  This time

a wooden doorway is standing directly in front of her, the golden key

sticking out of the lock.

As Alex reaches for it, the Screamer enters Level Four. Alex slowly opens

the door.

Alex turns and waits calmly for the Screamer.

THE SCREAMER

is a black speck on the horizon, then a bullet, then a nightmarish face

bearing down on her...

IT'S JAWS

flare open to engulf her.

Alex doesn't flinch at all.  And at the last possible second before

impact...

BLINK!  A stylized figure appears on her wrist-display next to the "TIME

ELAPSED" meter.  Beneath the figure it says "FREE LIFE".

Alex feels the breath of the Screamer on her face and falls back through

the doorway...

"LEVEL SIX -- SHOCK CORRIDOR"

INT.  LEVEL SIX, SHOCK CORRIDOR -- NIGHT

Alex steps out of a doorway into a long, narrow hallway. The hallway is

mirrored on one side.  It has no doors or windows, and up ahead, it

branches off to the right and the left.

Alex turns and looks behind her.  The doorway she came through is gone

now.  A mirrored wall stands in its place, with her own reflection staring

back at her.

THE REFLECTION

There are subtle changes.  They shouldn't be noticeable at first, but the

reflection seems somehow more threatening.

Alex starts down the hall, her reflection keeping pace with her.  Up

ahead, she hears a BUZZING noise, drawing closer.

LIGHT flickers in the hallway to the left, presumably whatever it is

that's BUZZING.  Suddenly a streak of light, running along the floor,

turns the corner and heads down the hallway towards Alex.

The light hits her feet and SPARKS fly.  Alex SCREAMS and is thrown back

against the wall, shocked.  The streak of light continues past her and

disappears into the mirror at the hall's end.  It's like a moving

electrical pulse.

ALEX

She's been given a pretty good jolt.  Her hands shake for a moment, an

after-seizure of sorts, and she stands...

HER MIRRORED REFLECTION

is watching her, arms crossed.  This wouldn't be a problem were it not for

the fact that Alex currently doesn't have her arms crossed!

The reflection grins and its/her eyes GLOW with fractals.

Spooked, Alex continues down the hallway, reaching the end and turning

left...

NEW CORRIDOR

Alex moves quicker now, glancing left as her reflection follows.

BUZZZZZ!!!  Here comes another streak of light, rushing in along the floor

from a side corridor...

Alex LEAPS over it, and it passes harmlessly under her. Now she's getting

the hang of it.  She starts forward again.

BUZZZZZ!!!  Here come two at a time from opposite directions...

Alex has to jump left to avoid the first streak and lands directly in the

path of the second.  Then she jumps back to the right again...

THE TWO STREAKS

pass by, zipping away from each other.

ANOTHER CORRIDOR

The pace quickens, with Alex racing down the corridors. She turns corner

after corner.  It's become a virtual maze.

We cut back to Alex's "STRENGTH" and "TIME ELAPSED" meters again and

again.  Both are shrinking away to nothing.

And all the while, her reflection keeps pace with her, growing

increasingly more nightmarish in appearance.  As Alex tires, the

reflection seems to gain more strength.

BUZZZZZ!!!  BUZZZZZ!!!  The streaks are shooting towards her with more

frequency, and now they're racing along the walls too.  Alex is jumping

left and right, with SPARKS exploding around her.

THE REFLECTION

seems to be metamorphosizing.  Each time we see it/her, she looks a little

different.  What's gradually happening (as time elapses) is that Alex's

reflection is turning into The Screamer.

Alex moves with increasing urgency as the streaks converge on her.  The

corridors are filled with a constant BUZZING and flickering of light.

SPARKS fly and Alex is shocked over and over.

She stumbles, falls to the floor, and rolls to the right, just missing a

streak.  It cuts past her face, centimeters away.

BEEP!  BEEP!  BEEP!  Off goes her wrist display!  Alex is up and running

now, desperate.

We cut faster and faster  Alex running, the streaks of light, the

reflection until...

END CORRIDOR

She's back where she started.  And the corridor dead-ends in a mirrored

wall...

BEHIND ALEX,

Dozens of light streaks are dogging her heels, literally just behind her.

They're so thick that she couldn't possibly leap over all of them.

Seconds before they reach her.

AHEAD OF ALEX,

the mirror shows her own reflection, rushing closer.  Her wrist display

indicates that time is up with a prolonged BEEP and her own reflection

vanishes.  It's the Screamer in her reflection's place.  Only it's

rocketing towards her in the mirror.  It's in front of her this time,

instead of behind her.

Rock and a fucking hard place.  Light streaks or Screamers?

It's really no choice at all.  Her guts says "Screamer".

Alex leaps and SMASHES into the mirror at full speed.  The world is filled

with SHATTERING GLASS and a shower of infinite reflections and then we...

EXT.  LEVEL SEVEN, PIER -- DAY

The sound of SHATTERING GLASS carried through as Alex EXPLODES out of the

sky.  And it's the sky itself that seems to be shattering...

Title reads "LEVEL SEVEN -- SEA OF DARKNESS"

ALEX

continues her fall.  She lands hard.  No blue desert sand to cushion her

here.  It takes her a moment to rise...

Alex is on a slat-board pier extending out into a sea of black water.  The

shore is completely desolate with the exception of the pier.  Storms

clouds have gathered above, and if you've seen a storm blowing in on the

open sea, you know what it looks like...

...the and of the world.  A strange and scary yellow/green sky presses

down on us.  It's a hurricane sky.  The calm before the storm.

ON THE HORIZON,

TWO CITIES can be seen.  Techno-cityscapes, angular and metallic-looking,

towers jutting up from the sea like knives.

AT THE END OF THE PIERS

are two boats.  Standing in them are two pale-faced, cloaked FIGURES.

Like Charon, the boatman on the river Styx.

Somewhere off in the distance, the RINGING can be distinctly heard now.

But Alex is preoccupied now.  As she moves down the pier, recognition

dawns on her.

It's Laurie and Stilts.  They are dressed completely in black, hair

slicked back and eyes empty.  White-faced Gothic harlequins.  Each is

holding a wooden staff, staring into space.

Alex rushes forward, excited, but as she sees their faces excitement

fades.  A chill wind picks up and the sea laps at the pier like a

metronome, lulling the world into stillness.

Neither of them acknowledges Alex with their eyes.

Laurie motions to the techno-cities behind her.

Alex stares at them a moment, utterly confused.  The sky above darkens,

and the wind picks up.  She looks to the horizon, from one city to

another, then back at her friends.

BEEP! BEEP! BEEP!  Alex doesn't even need to look at her wrist display

anymore.  She begins to pace on the end of the pier, nervously glancing at

the horizon.  And yes, there's the FLASH followed by the SHRIEK/SONIC

BOOM.

THE SCREAMER

is visible now, arms opening to engulf Alex.  Talk about pressure.

Alex rushes over to Stilts.

THE SCREAMER

has reached the pier now, rocketing over the wooden slats and shaking the

entire structure...

Alex turns to Laurie.

Laurie nods and steps aside, making room for Alex to climb into the boat.

She does and...

THE SCREAMER

dissipates just before it reaches Alex.  It turns into mist and vanishes,

the HOWL lingering as an echo long after the Screamer itself has gone.

At once, the boat begins to glide through the water, away from the pier.

Alex gets a last glimpse of Stilts standing in his boat, diminishing as

Alex and Laurie move away from him.  He looks like the loneliest person in

the world.

"LEVEL EIGHT -- CITY OF TRUTH"

EXT. LEVEL SEVEN, OPEN SEA -- LATER

As Alex and Laurie near the city, its features become more apparent.  It

is truly a Necropolis, black and angular. It's a shadow on the sunset

horizon, empty of all life and looming above them.

Just then, Alex hears a tiny VOICE.

A SMALL FIGURE

bobs in the water about fifty yards in front of them.  It waves it's hands

frantically, sinking below the water's surface, then rising once again.

It's a little BOY.

Alex's boat is going to pass right by the boy.  She grabs hold of the

gunwale and reaches out for him...

Their hands lock and Alex YANKS the boy out of the water as the boat

cruises by.

THE BOY

can't be more than seven or eight.  Small and frail-looking, he shivers in

her arms.

Just then the boat comes to a CRASHING stop, slamming into the black rocks

which the city rests on.  Alex and the boy are violently pitched forward

and out of the boat.

They land roughly on a beach of black gravel.  Alex turns.

LAURIE

stands in the boat.  In an instant, night has fallen.  She is a silhouette

in the moonlight.

And Laurie literally fades before their eyes.  In her place, is a small

golden key.

Alex snatches up the key.  Alex turns back to the boy and...

INT. LEVEL EIGHT, CONCRETE WASTELAND -- NIGHT

...Alex and the boy are now standing on the top of a concrete incline.  It

extends downward into a system of tunnels and viaducts.  The RINGING

starts immediately, followed by the FLASH on the horizon.  Time's already

up. The little boy reaches for Alex's hand, frightened.

Alex removes pulls her Thrasher board from her back and drops it on the

lip of the incline.  There's a FLASH and the board has changes into a

motorcycle.  A sleek black one.

The little boy nods.  He knows that Alex is his only chance of getting out

of here.  Nevertheless, we can tell that he's terrified.  Alex kneels down

next to him.  The wind around them has picked up and the RINGING

increases.  High-pitched, stabbing into our brains.

The boy nods again.

Alex's wrist display starts BEEPING and...BOOM!  The RINGING is replaced

by the Screamer's shriek.  In the distance, the Screamer is a fireball

spiraling towards the city.

Alex jumps on the motorcycle and pulls the boy up.  He crawls behind her

and hugs her back tightly.

She fingers the throttle and the cycle ROARS to life.  It rockets off the

incline and down into the tunnels.

A SERIES OF SHOTS

as Alex maneuvers the cycle through a forest of concrete. It's a harrowing

ride, as her headlight reveals little of what's up ahead.  Somewhere above

the tunnels, the Screamer has arrived.  In the course of the chase, it's

SHRIEK will become louder and louder as it draws closer, locating Alex.

ANOTHER CYCLE

appears out of side tunnels and a chase is on.  The RIDER is dressed in

black with glowing death's head masks.

The tunnels get narrower and narrower, as Alex keeps pushing the limit off

the bike.

Rider #1 tries to cut Alex off, charging forward and ramming her bike...

Alex almost loses it, but finds balance once again, sweeping left and up

the side of a circular tunnel...

RIDER #1

bites it.  His cycle careens into the wall and EXPLODES in a shower of

GREEN LIGHT.  The death's head tumbles away, spinning end over end.  The

Screamer BLASTS over the remains of the Rider, having entered the tunnels.

TWO MORE RIDERS APPEARS

gaining on Alex.  Rider #2 pulls a staff from his back and thrusts it

forward like a lance.  CHINK!  The staff hits Alex's rear wheel, nearly

throwing her.  The rider pulls off a gloved and reaches a glowing,

skeletal hand towards them.  Death touch.  The boy SCREAMS in terror.

UP AHEAD,

a wall is rushing to meet them.  Alex jams the breaks and slides/skids

sideways, cutting right at the last possible moment...

WHAM!!!  Rider #2 slams into the end wall, not able to negotiate the turn.

Another EXPLOSION of green and the second death's head comes tumbling

away.

Alex looks back.  There should be one Rider left, only now their are

three!  Alex guns the bike and cuts sharply to the right...

NEW TUNNEL --

Alex SCREECHES to a stop, having found yet another fork. The tunnel

branches off into two directions.  Two neon signs with arrows point in

opposite directions.

NEON SIGNS

They read, "THIS WAY" and "THAT WAY". Alex checks her wrist display.  Not

much time left.

Alex backs up the cycle and heads down the tunnel marked "THIS WAY"

instead.

THE TUNNEL

It narrows almost immediately.  Alex hears a ROAR, glances behind her, and

sees four death's head RIDERS on her tail. She makes another turn...

AHEAD,

is a crumbling brick wall with the words "WRONG WAY" painted in blood-red.

SUDDENLY,

the tunnel behind them flares with light, shaking like an earthquake.  The

Screamer has found them.

A KEY

hangs out from the wall, sort of like the brass ring on a merry-go-round.

Alex snags it as she sweeps by.

THE SCREAMER

rockets around the corner, twisting down the narrow tunnel.

Alex grinds the motorcycle forward for all it's worth, and the Screamer is

literally breathing down her neck.  She turns corner after corner, faster

and faster, scraping the bike into the scum-covered walls and shooting out

showers of SPARKS.  If she takes one second too long to negotiate a turn,

pauses for even an instant, the Screamer will be on them...

A CLAWED HAND

lashes out and tears away the cycle's tail-pipe.  Another hand takes out a

chunk of the seat...

THE BOY

is WAILING, curling low to avoid the Screamer's claws...

AHEAD,

the tunnel narrows to a dead-end.  Alex and the Screamer are on a

collision course.  A hundred miles an hour and gaining...

The Screamer LASHES out again, gouging a bloody gash in Alex's shoulder

and cutting clear through her armor.  It's claws sink into her flesh,

latching on.  Alex CRIES OUT in pain, her face contorted into a mask of

agony and fear. She pulls out a knife with her left hand a stabs blindly

into the monster...

THE SCREAMER

LURCHES forward onto the motorcycle and opens its jaws wide.  Black saliva

and ooze flow from it's mouth splashing over Alex's shoulder's and neck.

It's going to bite her head off.  It's going to...

Alex and the Screamer SLAM into the dead-end and a spectacular fireball of

GREEN LIGHT consumes the screen.

"LEVEL NINE -- THE GHETTO OF GREED"

EXT. LEVEL NINE, CRUMBLING HONG KONG GHETTO -- NIGHT

We're on a dark, crowded street lined by decrepit tenements which are

caving in upon themselves.

There is a flash of GREEN LIGHT.  Alex and the boy suddenly appear on the

street in a whirlwind of papers, sans motorcycle, but still sliding

forward at a good thirty miles an hour.  Were it not for their armor,

they'd be torn to shreds.  They skid to a stop under a sputtering

streetlight.

Alex and the boy are still SCREAMING.  Anguish is the word for Alex.  She

clutches her shoulder which is gushing blood and stumbles to her feet.

BEEP! BEEP! BEEP! BEEP! BEEP!!!!!!

It's her fucking wrist display again and TIME-IS-FUCKING-UP!

Alex SCREAMS, pushed to the absolute breaking point.

BOOM!  Once again the streets begin to vibrate as the Screamer enters the

level.

THE STREETS --

Impoverished PEOPLE bustle back and forth everywhere. Alex grabs the boy's

hand and all but drags him down the darkened streets.  It becomes a mad,

blind dash through Hell.  She SMASHES into peddlers, stalls, tripping over

or knocking down everything in her path...

The SHRIEK/SONIC BOOM of the Screamer overwhelms everything else.  With

each level, it's gotten louder and louder. Wind is tearing down the

streets...

A BLACK-CLAD FIGURE

spins out of the shadows, landing in front of them.  It's a Ninja, two

swords spinning in its hands.

Instinctively, Alex reaches to her side, and sure enough, there's a gun

there now.  She unholsters it and FIRES in a blind panic.

BLAM!  Down goes the Ninja #1, spouting blood from its chest.

THWUNK!  THWUNK!!!  Two throwing stars imbed themselves into Alex's

chest-plate...

...and Jesus-fucking-Christ, Ninjas are crawling out of the wood-work!

They dive out of the shadows, weapons spinning and glistening in the

moonlight.  Throwing stars are flying like hail now, CLINKING! into the

concrete walls behind Alex and the boy...

ALEX

spins around, shooting indiscriminately into the crowd of bodies.  BLAM!

BLAM!  BLAM!  Ninjas fall right and left, but in no time, twice as many

move in to take their place. They're like the hornet's nest of Alien

monsters, black-clad shadows creeping towards them.

A shot hits the streetlight above, casting a sputtering, strobing light

over the whole scene and adding to the chaos.

The world is shaking apart.  It's the end of everything. It's flashes of

light and noise, nightmares and blood, chaos heaped on chaos...

Alex FIRES her gun again and again and again...

...and in the midst of this mess, here comes the Screamer again.  It

shoots down the street like a guided missile.

Alex stumbles.  The Boy drags at her arm, trying to pull her up...

Alex is crying, hysterical.  She turns and sees the Screamer bearing down

on her, just like Nick did before her was ripped to shreds.

The boy is yelling something.  Alex focuses...

THE BOY

is pulling back a manhole cover.  BLUE LIGHT  issues up from below.

Before Alex can stop him, the boy disappears down the hole.

Alex has one last chance.  She throws herself at the hole even as the

Screamer reaches her.  A clawed hand wraps around her leg.  Alex FIRES

into the hand.  The hand is severed!  She's falling!  Falling into

darkness...

"LEVEL TEN -- BAD BRAINS"

EXT.  LEVEL TEN, TECHNO-SKYSCRAPER -- NIGHT

ON ALEX AND THE BOY

as they blink into existence on this level.  Alex rises, shaking badly.

Her armor is battered, burnt, covered with grim and blood...it's

impossible to tell who's blood, though.  She looks like she's just walked

out of a slaughter-house.

A bone-jarring HUMMING is heard.  Alex turns...

ARCADE'S BRAIN

looms over her, all glass and black steel.  It reaches into the sky and

keeps on going.  Massive.  Tendrils of crackling ENERGY race up and down

it, BUZZING.  And as impossible as it may seem, this thing definitely

appears to be alive.

TWO GLASS DOORS

swing open in invitation.  A red carpet rolls out from within the

building, rolling by itself.  Emerald City time. The carpet unfurls

completely, ending just at Alex's feet.

Above the doors, a neon sign blinks on, one word at a time,

"THIS...IS...THE...PLACE".  Fucking-A.

Alex offers a tired, near-maddened laugh.  It's all she can do anymore.

THE BOY

looks up at Alex, frightened.

Alex nods.  She takes his hand and together, they walk down the red carpet

towards the entrance of ARCADE'S brain.

INT.  LEVEL TEN, ARCADE'S BRAIN -- NIGHT

Inside, the lobby is a cacophony of LIGHT and SOUND.  We hear HUNDREDS OF

VOICES at once...whispering...fading in and out...  It's like channels

being changed.  A snippet of an opera here, maybe Bugs Bunny's voice

there...RAP MUSIC, COUNTRY MUSIC, a woman in the throes of orgasm, Nazis

screaming "HEIL HITLER!", anything and everything.

SIGNS BLINK ON AND OFF...

Catchy phrases like, "THIS IS MY BRAIN AND WELCOME TO IT", and "I THINK,

THEREFORE, I'M FUCKED" flash before us.

T.V. MONITORS

are everywhere, displaying an endless array of STATIC.  And now the

monitors are displaying FRACTALS.  Every single one of them.  We hear the

CELLOS, like an orchestra tuning up.

ALEX

throws her hands over her ears as the SOUNDS become unbearable.

She pulls out her gun at FIRES into the SOUNDS and IMAGES. Shooting the

fuck out of everything.  Monitor screens shatter, glass flies and...

...just like that, total silence descends.  One by one, the lights blink

off, and it's dark once again.

INT. LEVEL TEN, THE NIGHT ROOM --

A SPOTLIGHT

comes on, isolating Alex.  The boy stands behind her, and everything else

is dark.  It's impossible to tell how large the room is.  It might go on

forever.

MORE LIGHTS

come on now, pin-point spots illuminating the faces of her friends.

They're all there...Stilts, Laurie, the others. Even Nick.  They sit in

rows, motionless...a peanut gallery.  It's eerie as hell.

And now, Alex sees something else, Greg.  He's encased in a block of ice.

A frozen prince.  And in his hands he holds a sword.  The sword is very

unusual.  The hilt is shaped like a heart and it glows RED as if it had

just pulled from a furnace.  Alex realizes that the sword is ARCADE'S

heart.

Alex moves towards Greg.  As she gets closer, she sees a keyhole carved

into the ice.

Alex knows what to do.  She withdraws her belt on which the nine golden

keys are attached.  Removing the keys, Alex begins to fit them

together...one, two, three...until they combine to form the shape of a

single, greater key.

THE KEY

Alex fits it into the keyhole and turns it.

THE CASE OF ICE

splits in half, opening up with a cloud of frosty air. Inside, Greg is

frozen still, clutching the sword.  Alex pulls the sword out of his stiff

grip, lifting it up.

No answer.  Alex turns, eyes searching through the darkness.

Her voice echoes in the cavernous room.

Alex spins around and...

THE BOY

stands before her.  He grins and his eyes pulse with an internal light.

We can hear him BREATHING now, just like before.  Just like the game.

ARCADE begins to change, shaking and ROARING as something black and

insect-like bursts out of the boy's skin.  It claws at its face, ripping

the flesh away and revealing something altogether awful underneath.

Nothing could have prepared Alex for this.  It/ARCADE rises above her and

it takes every ounce of her courage to keep from screaming.  Somehow, Alex

finds a reserve of strength.

Alex swings the sword and...

ARCADE SMASHES it aside.  It CLATTERS to the floor, useless.  But that's

academic now as a gnarled hand clamps around Alex's throat.

ARCADE lifts Alex into the air and SLAMS her against a wall, pinning her

there.  He thrusts his face into hers.

ARCADE slowly squeezes her throat and Alex chokes, gasping for air that

isn't forthcoming.  Tears well up in her eyes and her face turns red.  She

tries to pry the bony, black fingers from her throat, but she can't...

HER P.O.V.

as she sees the faces of her friends.  Frozen.  Unable to help.  Then the

images swirl and Alex begins to lose consciousness.

ARCADE drops Alex to the ground, then wraps a hand into her hair and drags

her across the floor...

A DOORWAY

stands in the darkness.  ARCADE rips it open, revealing absolute emptiness

beyond.  It's like a doorway into space, a hole in the fabric of reality.

It sucks the air into it, light...everything.  It touches some sort of

primal fear. Gut instinct.  You don't ever want to go to this place. Ever.

She twists madly, trying to pull away, but ARCADE is too strong.  He

shoves her through the doorway.  Her hands briefly latch onto the

doorjamb.  ARCADE violently kicks her and her hands slip away.  They slip

and she tumbles through.

ARCADE slams the door shut.

These words appear on the screen, "FINAL LEVEL -- THE REAL WORLD"

INT.  MANNING HOUSE, HALLWAY -- DAY

Alex lands on the hallway floor, disoriented.  Somewhere, we can hear a

clock TICKING.  But other than that the house is silent, in stark contrast

to the storm of sounds a moment ago.

THE HOUSE

looks just like the dream/flashback we saw earlier. Everything is white.

Bright and dreamlike.  Hyper reality. Alex looks up and...

ANOTHER ALEX

is sitting in a chair nearby, back straight, hands clasped in her lap.

Reserved.

The other Alex vanishes.  Now the chair is empty.  Alex turns to look down

the long hallway.  At the end of the hallway is the open door.  A door

we've seen before.  The words fade in like phantoms...

With a building sense of dread, Alex moves towards that doorway.  She

stops at the threshold, terrified.

INT.  MANNING HOUSE, BEDROOM -- DAY

Everything looks normal at first.  A typical bedroom with sunlight

streaming in through the windows.  A bed, made-up. Flowers in vases.

Everything looks perfect.

We turn with Alex.  Ever so slowly.  Over to the right and the entranceway

of the bathroom.  Over to where her mother is...

...seated on a chair. dressed in white and radiating warmth!

HER MOTHER

looks beautiful.  Eyes sparkling.  Alive and vital.

Alex can't believe what she's seeing.  Immediately, tears come to her eyes

and her voice falters...

Tears are running freely down Alex's face now.

Her mother looks ecstatic.  And now there are tears in her eyes.  Joy,

reunion...it's unclear which.

Alex looks around her.  It's all too much to take in.  Her mother.  Back

in her own home.  Sunlight is streaming in, bathing everything around her

in gold and the moment is crystallized.  A still-life.  Forever.

Her mother stands and Alex sees that she is holding a gun...no, the gun,

in her hands.  She raises at Alex.

Alex has no time to respond.  A still-born scream is frozen in her throat.

A split-second of realization.  And then her mother FIRES the gun...

CRACK!  The bullet hits Alex square in the forehead, snapping her head

back as an are of blood and brain matter trail outward.  The world spins

to a stop, like a record player running down.

Alex is killed instantly.  Her body collapse, head thumping

unceremoniously against the carpeted floor.

HER EYES

open and fixed on infinity.  No life here.  Seems hard to believe that

there ever was.

INT. LEVEL NINE, THE NIGHT ROOM --

ON ALEX'S FACE

There is no bullet-hole in her forehead, but her eyes are just as

lifeless.

THE PEANUT GALLERY

Row after row of frozen faces.  Are they aware that Alex has died?  Is

there consciousness inside those skulls?

ON ARCADE

as he crouches over Alex's body.  A smile creeps across his face.

He laughs.

ALEX'S BODY

begins to decompose in front of us, skin sinking in and shriveling up.  In

moments, she's just a husk.

ARCADE rears back, and is about to turn away, when something catches his

eye.  He hears a tiny BEEPING.

ALEX'S WRIST MONITOR

Remember the stylized symbol of a woman?  The one that said "FREE LIFE"

beneath it?  Well it disappears now.

There's a sudden FLASH behind ARCADE and he spins around..

ANOTHER ALEX

is standing behind him. and she's got the heart/sword in her hands!

She DIVES forward, thrusting the sword with all her might. It sinks into

ARCADE'S chest and she pushes further, burying it up to the hilt.

ARCADE lets loose the most terribly SCREAM we've ever heard.  It literally

shakes world.

THE SWORD

is glowing like molten lava.  The heart-shaped hilt burns into the

monster's chest, spreading crackling fire over his entire body.  His body

is immersed fire now, vibrating like mad and suddenly...

...ARCADE EXPLODES IN A FIREBALL OF GREEN LIGHT AND...

...he's gone.  Like he never existed.  The sword drops to the floor, a

gun-metal gray now.

Alex stands there a moment, stunned, not quite willing to believe that

she's won.

A NEON SIGN

above her drops down.  It flashes "CONGRATULATIONS" over and over again.

"CONGRATULATIONS".

ALEX

looks down at herself.  She feels odd.  Something is happening.  She's

fading out, as if she were a signal being lost.  Her image stutters,

flickers and...

INT.  DANTE'S INFERNO -- NIGHT

Alex FLASHES back into the real world. And then one by one, so do the

others.

It's a glorious sight.  Each one is heralded by BUZZING STATIC, and then a

rippling in space, an image stuttering in and...

POP!  POP!  POP!  One after another come FLASHING back in bursts of light!

There are dozens.  The Inferno is filled with them, like a flurry of

flashbulbs going off.  Familiar faces and people we've never seen.  Benz,

Laurie, Stilts, DeLoach...

POP!  And there's Nick!  And more, and still more!  Forty, fifty...  Just

how many people did ARCADE take?

Everyone is grinning, crying, hugging one another.

SPACE SHIMMERS

just before Alex.  SOMEONE else is trying to fight their way back.  It's

Greg.  He's blinking back into reality.

He flickers for a moment, tentative...

...and then he's back for good.  He wraps his arms around Alex, grabbing

her so tight that it's almost painful.  Both of them are sobbing.

Together, the two of them start towards the door, eager to leave this

place.

In groups of twos and threes, the others follow.

EXT.  DANTE'S INFERNO -- DAWN

Outside, light is just beginning to creep its way back into the world.

Alex glances up and can't help but notice the streetlight fading out as

the sun returns.  She points and laughs.

WE BEGIN TO RISE UP,

as Nick and the others join them.  Everyone is laughing now.  It's

uncontrollable.  This is positive.  Life affirming.  And hell, we should

probably wrap this thing up on that note.

We should...

...but we won't.

WE WATCH

as a series of dissolves portray the crowd of people leaving, bit by bit,

until only our original group is left.

THE GROUP

as they make their way down the street and away from The Inferno.

Alex catches Nick's eye briefly, and he smiles.  Whatever happened between

them is over now.  Friends again.

Suddenly Alex stops in her tracks, a look of concern washing over her

face.

A beat as the group mulls it over.  Then Greg shakes his head.

Greg's right.  Alex grins and dismisses the thought.

The group moves away from us once more.

INT.  DANTE'S INFERNO -- DAY

We are moving slowly through the empty arcade, ducking around and between

video machines until we reach the silent ARCADE prototype.

SUDDENLY,

SPARKS appear on the ground nearby, chasing each other around and

coalescing into a ball.  ENERGY crackling. SOMETHING is flickering in and

out at an incredible rate. BUZZING.  STATIC.  And...

WHAM!!!  A FLASH OF LIGHT EXPLODES OUTWARD.

A FORM

rises up from the floor, still trailing tendrils of smoke. It lifts its

head.

THE BOY

stares directly at us, eyes glowing like nuclear reactors. And inside

those eyes we see the swirling fractals.  He grins, flashing a mouthful of

perfectly white teeth.

And we...

Darkness.

<!--Ad Banner

function popupPage() {

<b>}

</b>

popupPage();

//  Ad Banner-->

