July 24, 1980                    Brighton Productions Inc.

INT. TYRELL CORPORATION LOCKER ROOM - DAY               1

THE EYE                                                 2

It's magnified and deeply revealed.  Flecks of green

and yellow in a field of milky blue.  Icy filaments

surround the undulating center.

The eye is brown in a tiny screen.  On the metallic

surface below, the words VOIGHT-KAMPFF are finely

etched.  There's a touch-light panel across the top

and on the side of the screen, a dial that registers

fluctuations of the iris.

The instrument is no bigger than a music box and sits

on a table between two men.  The man talking is big,

looks like an over-stuffed kid.  "LEON" it says on

his breast pocket.  He's dressed in a warehouseman's

uniform and his pudgy hands are folded expectantly in

his lap.  Despite the obvious heat, he looks very cool.

The man facing him is lean, hollow cheeked and dressed

in gray.  Detached and efficient, he looks like a cop

or an accountant.  His name is HOLDEN and he's all

business, except for the sweat on his face.

The room is large and humid.  Rows of salvaged junk

are stacked neatly against the walls.  Two large fans

whir above their heads.

Holden doesn't answer.  He's centering Leon's eye on

the machine.

He tries not to move but finally his lips can't help

a sheepish smile.

Leon compresses his lips and nods his big head eagerly.

Holden's voice is cold, geared to intimidate and evoke

response.

It was a timid interruption, hardly audible.

He sees Holden's patience is wearing thin.

Keeping an eye on his subject, Holden notes the dials

in the Voight-Kampff.  One of the needles quivers

slightly.

Disregarding the question, Holden continues, picking

up the pace.

Leon's upper lip is quivering.

Leon looks shocked, surprised.  But the needles in

the computer barely move.  Holden goes for the inside

of his coat.  But big Leon is faster.  His LASER BURNS

a hole the size of a nickel through Holden's stomach.

Unlike a bullet, a laser causes no impact.  It goes

through Holden's spine and comes out his back, clean

as a whistle.  Like a rag doll he falls back off the

bench from the waist up.  By the time he hits the

floor, big slow Leon is already walking away.  But he

stops, turns and with a little smile of satisfaction,

FIRES at the machine on the table.

There's a flash and a puff of smoke.  The Voight-Kampff

is hit dead center, crippled but not destroyed; as

Leon walks out of the room, one of its lights begins

to blink, faint but steady.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT                                     3

The horizon marked by a thin copper line that maybe

the end, of the beginning of a day.

The train that follows, cuts through the night at 400

miles an hour.

INT. TRAIN - NIGHT                                      4

No clickitty-clack of track-bound noise, it's a long,

insulated Pullman of contoured seats and low-keyed

lighting, coloured to soothe,and empty, except for

the passenger half way down.

His eyes closed, head rested against the glass.  Ten

years ago, DECKARD might have been an athlete, a

track man or a welter-weight.  The body looks it, but

the face has seen some time -- not all of it good.

INT. TRAIN - REFRESHMENT DISPENSER - NIGHT              5

Deckard comes down the aisle, slips a coin into the

mechanism, receives a beer and returns to his seat.

INT. TRAIN - NIGHT                                      6

Tired of the program, he takes off the headset and

drops it next to three empty beer bottles and a

sandwich wrapper, adjusts his position and winds up

staring at his reflection in the window.  Runs a

hand over his face, it could use a shave.  He leans

closer and peers through the glass.

Out there in the black a sign flashes past:  SAN

ANGELES, THREE MINUTES.

EXT. PLATFORM - NIGHT                                   7

The train slides in, smooth as an eel, and stops with-

out a sound.  Carrying a bag and umbrella, Deckard

disembarks ahead of the other passengers and into the

sweltering night.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT                                   8

Deckard has got his coat swung over his shoulder, his

shirt already damp, as he walks down the long, hollow

passage under orbs of yellow light.

EXT. TERMINAL - NIGHT                                   9

Deckard unlocks his car and gets in.  Turns the ig-

nition and hits a sensor.  The dash console glows

and Deckard sits back waiting for the air unit to cool

things off.

A little detached, Deckard taps another sensor on the

panel, lights up a cigarette and watches as his mes-

sages flash across the viewer stating date, time and

caller.  The last one is repeated five times.  Deckard

sighs, switches off the viewer and gets on the radio.

The SOUND OF A CHIME precedes the mechanical female

voice that answers.

A pause.  Followed by a husky male voice.

There is a pause.  That was bad news.

The ENGINE REVS, the wipers rake two weeks of dust off

the windshield and Deckard jams out of the lot.

INT. THE HALL OF JUSTICE - NIGHT                        10

An enormous grey vault of a building.  A businesslike

Deckard strides down a long corridor with his brief-

case and police ID pinned to his coat.

The door in front of Deckard slides open and he walks

through.

INT. INSPECTOR BRYANT'S OFFICE - NIGHT                  11

The INSPECTOR is in his fifties.  The deep creases in

his face, the broken capillaries in his nose say

brawler, spoiler, drinker, but the diplomas on the

wall say something else.  Bryant's kneeled at his safe

trying to open it.  Deckard it sitting on the edge of

the desk reading the print-out.

Bryant gets the safe open and brings out a bottle of

whiskey.

Deckard sets down the report and takes the shot Bryant

just poured for him.

A grim pause.

Bryant's back at the safe locking up his bottle.

Bryant nods.

Bryant fishes a piece of paper out of his pocket,

copies down a number and hands it over.

Deckard stands and holds up his drink.

Like a sick boy looking out of the window, Bryant

watches Deckard down the whiskey.  Deckard puts down

the glass and turns to leave.

EXT. LEON'S HOTEL ENTRANCE - NIGHT                      12

An electrical storm is brewing.  Deckard stands out-

side the entrance to an old hotel holding an umbrella,

as people scuttle into doorways to avoid the sudden

downpour.

INT. LEON'S HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT                         13

A heavy metal maze of cubicles and perilous iron

balconies, peopled with rejects from the surface world;

Mato Grosso Indians in white man's clothes and other

lower echelon welfare recipients.  Drop city is crowded,

cramped and darkly alive.

Deckard steps out of an elevator and moves through the

crowd.  A cloud of steam drifts up through  a grating

as two old men, clad in towels descend a flight of

stairs under a neon sign that says bath house.

A musty subterranean wind ripples Deckard's clothes as

he turns into an alcove.  He stops in front of a door

that says, MANAGER and pushes the buzzer.  It's opened

by an emphysema victim with an oxygen tank lashed to

his hip.  Deckard flashes his ID and speaks some words

which are inaudible due to the TUBA MUSIC down the hall.

The man grabs a key from his wall, hands it over and

shuts the door.

INT. LEON'S HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT                      14

The companion ways below deck of a big ship are no

more bewildering than the ups and downs and ins and

outs of this establishment.  But Deckard finds the door

he's looking for.  He pauses a moment, listens, then

knocks.  He inserts the key and with a hand on his gun

opens it.

INT. LEON'S ROOM - NIGHT                                15

An empty room.  A cot and not much else.  He steps in

and stands quiet as a hunter sensing the signs.  For a

place surrounded by greasy hovels it is surprisingly

clean.  Spartan in fact.  The towel by the spotless

basin is perfectly folded.

Deckard runs two fingers over a shelf.  No dust.  He

looks in the waste basket.  Wadded up candy wrappers.

The bed by the window is neatly made.  Deckard looks

under it, then runs his hands along both sides of the

mattress.

The closet.  There's one suit in it.  He pats it down.

Nothing. A show box on the floor.  He stoops, takes

out what looks like a pen from his pocket and care-

fully traces it over the box.  Assured of its harm-

lessness, he lifts off the lid.

It contains a little stack of photos bound with a

rubber band.  Deckard removes them, goes to the lamp

by the balcony window and turns it on.

A touching collection of family snapshots.  The kind of

anonymous stuff sold by the bunch in dusty junk shops.

The family dog.  Junior on the pony squinting in the

sun.  Uncle Ben clowning with the kids.  The faded

polaroid of Christmas morning.  Simple pictures of

simple folks celebrating the family bond.  A curious

collection for the likes of Leon and Deckard studies

them with interest.

EXT. STREET BELOW - NIGHT                               16

Oblivious to the cloudburst, a blue-eyed albino stands

in the doorway, peddling candy and artificial flowers

looking like he'd never been touched by the light of

day.

Leon is standing behind him, staring up at his room,

watching Deckard at the window.  He's still wearing

his coveralls, but he looks different.  His face is

more intent, smarter and angry.

EXT. STREET BELOW - NIGHT                               17

For one seething moment it looks like Leon might mash

something, but suddenly he swings away and disappears

into the crowd.

INT. LEON'S ROOM - NIGHT                                18

Deckard pockets the pictures and moves away from the

window.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT                                      19

Leon's got a neck like a fire hydrant and legs to

match, but he's a graceful runner.  Looks like he could

do it for days.  And he could.  He's put a lot of alley

behind him and he's not out of breath.

EXT. CHINATOWN - NIGHT                                  20

Slowing down he cuts into an opening and comes out onto

a narrow street.  The Asian Quarter.

INT. CHOP SUEY HOUSE - NIGHT                            21

A seamy as well as steamy little place.  Counter and

small tables.  Old slant-eyed enders humped over their

fuming bowls jabbering and slurping.

The only voice coming out clear is from the big three-

D TV on the back wall.  As the mellow-mouthed TV

announcer delivers the message, a Latin-looking beauty

in a well-fitted maids uniform does a twirl, flashes

a beguiling smile and glides OUT OF FRAME.

The Latin beauty is replaced by an impeccable Ray

Bolger type gentleman's gentleman who clicks his heels,

snaps to attention and struts off to make room for the

next.

The Chinese are paying no attention, but the man and

the woman seated at the table by the window are.

The woman is pretty, a touch of gray in her hair, kind

and blue-eyed.  MARY looks like an American dream mom,

right out of "Father Knows Best."

The man also resembles a tradition: the gym instructor,

short cropped hair with the body of a drill sergeant,

but the eyes are grey and chilling.  ROY BATTY is a

presence of force with a lazy, but acute sense of what

goes on around him.

Leon has just come through the door behind them.  Try-

ing not to be the bull in a china shop, he approaches

their table and kneels .  Batty doesn't bother to look

at him, which amplifies the note of sarcasm in his

quiet voice.

Leon looks sullen.

There's one next to him.  Leon pulls it over and sits.

From the pot on the table, Mary pours tea and they sit

so quiet and still in this noisy place that they seem

almost invisible.  The view they're "enjoying" is

through the window.  Outside the neon side in the win-

dow directly across the street says:  HANNIBAL CHEW,

MEMBERS.

INT. HANNIBAL CHEW'S SHOP - NIGHT                       22

Chew is a spindly old man of precision, his veiled

eyes are shrewd and Chinese, but the rest of him

looks like a Charles Dickens invention.

He's got a jewelers' glass stuck in his eye, lurched

over a lamp, squinting at something in his hand.  After

a moment his lips peal back into a sour, belligerent

smile.

He snaps off the lamp and swings round to face his

client.

SEBASTIAN'S face is almost young, but something has

gone too far, too fast.  Premature old age has made

his bones brittle and his co-ordination slow.  The

house may be dark but there's a light on in it.  Se-

bastian is a closet genius.

Sebastian's apologetic, especially around the acerbic

Mr. Chew.

Chew snickers and beckons.  Sebastian follows his down

a high narrow hall to a heavy insulated door.  There's

a moth-eaten full length fur coat hanging by it.  Chew

tugs it on and they go through.  The big door slams

shut behind them.

INT. COLD STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT                          23

Except for the work table with its sharp gleaming in-

struments, the room is as barren and sterile as a

morgue.  The glass-doored compartments in the walls

look like crypts.  Some of them small as post office

boxes.  From one of the Chew removes a vacuum, packed

box.  Carefully separating the seal, he reaches into

the purple jell and with a pair of tweezers extracts

an eye.

Through the jeweler's glass, which he has not bothered

to remove, Chew holds the eye up to the light and

studies it a moment.  His other hand searches through

his pockets.

Quick to accommodate, Sebastian removes a pencil-like

device from a row of such things in his breast pocket

and steps closer.  The back of the eye is touched with

the pencil and the pupil moves.  Suddenly its staring

back at them.

Anxious to leave, Sebastian nods.  Chew reseals the

eye taking his time.  He can afford to, he's wearing

his coat.

In place of an answer, Sebastian clears his throat,

stares at the bag like he didn't hear.

Sebastian nods.  Chew stares at the poor bastard, con-

cerned in spite of himself.

Sebastian nods his head like that's exactly what he'll

do.  Chew sees it's hopeless and hands him the bag.

Chew pulls the door open for him and Sebastian goes

through quick as a dog.

EXT. HANNIBAL CHEW'S STORE - STREET - NIGHT             24

Sebastian may lack co-ordination but he got what he

came for and there's a hopeful spring to his walk as

he heads for his truck.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S AMBULANCE - NIGHT                      25

It's an old panel job with ambulance siren and lights.

The lettering on the side reads "J.R. SEBASTIAN -

ANIMOID EXPRESS."  Sebastian gets in, starts up the

engine and suddenly realizes he's not alone.  It's a

jolt that causes him to yelp.

PRIS is sprawled on the seat next to him, and wakes up

with a yelp of her own.  They stare at one another for

a startled instant, and she jumps out and starts walk-

ing.

But she's forgotten her little beat-up overnight case.

Sebastian puts the truck in gear, drives next to her

and opens the door.

He holds up the bag.  Hesitantly she reaches for it.

She stares at him, hand on her case, looking lost.

Sebastian isn't good at this, but he tries.

She can't make up her mind.

She gets in.  Both of them are silent.  People are not

Sebastian's medium -- usually he's too shy, but this

girl is shyer still, plus they're about the same age --

it gives him courage.

So pleased with the way that went, he forgets for a

while what comes next.

She shrugs.  That leaves him a lot of responsibility.

He throws her side-long glances, but she's not helping.

What do you do with a teenage beauty who looks like

she's lost out of some "Welcome to Sunny Arizona"

poster?

She leans forward and rests her elbows on the dash.

Her body would win prizes, from any angle.

She looks at him,a shadow of enticement in her clear

blue eyes.

She giggles and laughs.

Sebastian's face is normally on the grey side, but it

just turned red.  He turns on the ignition and they

pull away from the curb.

INT. DECKARD'S CAR - FREEWAY - NIGHT                    26

Speeding along the freeway.  The terminal in the com-

munications console lit.  Deckard's right hand just

finished a punch-up.  The screen flashes back.

REQUEST

Deckard punches up.  Letters flash across the screen:

ESPER

Screen flashes back:

CLEARANCE

Deckard punches up.

BLADE RUNNER ONE CODE ML-33

Pause.

Screen flashes:

STAND BY.

Deckard's voice has been heard over the preceding.

Esper's deep melodious voice is anxious to please, and

oiled with a touch of self-pity.

The communication is interrupted by a BELL which is

immediately followed by a stern, MECHANICAL VOICE.

In his rear view mirror Deckard sees two black-clad

motorcycle cops coming up behind him like the hounds

of hell.  They draw silently alongside.  Deckard

presses his I.D. to the window.

The cop tosses a salute to Deckard and he and his

partner accelerate, vanish in the night.  And Deckard's

car does too.

EXT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT                              27

A district of silence and ruin.  The street is strewn

with refuse.  The building looks vacant.  A ten storey

condo gone to shit.  The vandals have come and gone

long ago.

Sebastian's little white ambulance parked at the curb.

MR. DEETCHUM, the old Watchman, sitting in the building

entry in a straight backed chair, is reading a comic

book.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                      28

Well stocked with items of survival, all labeled and

stacked.  And shelved along the walls and hung from the

ceiling is a menagerie of animoids.  Like so many broken

toys awaiting resurrection from Sebastian's wise hands.

Sebastian is seated at a large work-table, bent over a

stereo scope.  The tool in his right hand is a sensor

probe and he's using it with the delicacy of an en-

graver.

The object of his concentration is a maze-like chip

configuration no bigger than a thumbnail, but magnified

under the scope, it looks like an aerial view of a

large city.  The needle-like sensor probe moves care-

fully over the contours of the configuration, testing

the bonds.

Suddenly a blue flash erupts from one of the junctures.

Pris is light on her feet.  She's standing behind him

with a half-eaten sandwich in her hand.

But he's happy to see her.

She's changed her dress and made up her face.  Looks a

little older and sexier.

He watches her as she prowls around the room, looking

at this and that, eating her sandwich.

Trying to make light of it.

She sprawls on the couch studying him.

He can't meet her eyes.

It's not an easy subject.  His voice is barely audible.

There is a silence.  He steals a glance at her.

Under the desk he bats his knees together.

The implications catch up.

A little gray mouse on the shelf above his head bobs

up.

Taking their cue from the mouse, some of the more

talented animoids toot, flap and wheel about.

INT. DECKARD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                        29

It's dark except for the glow of the terminal.  A tired

Deckard sits in front of it.  Esper sounds like he's

been talking for hours.

A long pause.

Deckard starts to reach for the panel.

Hesitates.

Deckard picks up the umbrella and with it stabs the

terminal off button before Esper can respond and the

machine goes dead.  He sits there for a moment then

flips on the lamp.  Leon's snap-shots are spread out

before him.

INT. SPINNER - DAY                                      30

A police marked spinner makes a sharp bank, drops into

a steep curve and slides towards the Tyrell Corporation.

EXT. TYRELL CORPORATION - DAY                           31

The spinner gently touches down.  The hatch drops open

and Deckard steps out.

INT. TYRELL CORPORATION - DAY                           32

Deckard walks up to a desk, hands his I.D. to a guard

who checks it against a list on a screen.

The guard hands Deckard back his I.D., pushed a button

and Deckard walks away.

The elevator door slides open.  The young lady inside

would look right standing on a cliff, hair blowing in

the wind, looking out to sea in a 19th Century painting.

Deckard tips his head to her and steps in.

INT. TYRELL CORPORATION ELEVATOR - DAY                  33

No woman can be all things to all men, the Rachael comes

closer than most.  The only trouble is she's all busi-

ness.  Formidable without really trying.  Some beauty

is better avoided and Deckard looks straight ahead.

INT. TYRELL CORPORATION CORRIDOR - DAY                  33A

The door slides open and they continue down the corri-

dor.

INT. TYRELL CORPORATION - AIR-FILTERED CORRIDOR - DAY   33B

They pass into a canopied, air-filtered corridor.

Deckard doesn't answer the question because he's looking

at the animals.  Small northern animals in neat "en-

vironmental" cages.  He looks at the rabbit, the raccoon

and the squirrel, but the owl asleep on its perch stops

him.  The armed guard at the exit never takes his eyes

off them.

Deckard nods.  Rachael claps her hands.  The owl opens

its yellow eyes and blinks at them.

Hands thrust in her pockets, she strides off towards

the exit without looking back.

The exit is another tube.  Just big enough for two.  No

room for excess.  He tries to ignore her cool appraising

stare.

Deckard has nothing to say.

The door slides open.  Deckard looks down at her.

He lets it sink in.

He walks out of the elevator first.

INT. INNER SANCTUM OF DR. TYRELL - DAY                  34

The office is dimly lit, but highlights of resilience

reside in the luster of the antique furnishings, like

glimmers of gold in a darkened mine.  Dr. Tyrell is a

fragile man of power, with that look of "youth" obtained

from steroids and surgery.  Dapper and trim, he leans

against the desk looking at an old fashioned pocket

watch.  The only sound is the insidious PERKING of COFFEE

BREWING in the background.

Tyrell taps a sensor on his desk.  The door in front of

Deckard and Rachael slides open.  They enter a vestibule

and face another door, this one befitting the decor of

the office, Tyrell slips the watch into his pocket as

they enter.

Tyrell pours from an old time sylex into small china

cups and hands one to Deckard.  The congenial light in

his eyes could almost pass for warmth -- dragon warmth.

He hands Deckard a cup of coffee.

Deckard nods.

Deckard stares at Rachael, then back at Tyrell.  Delighted,

Tyrell takes a cup of coffee.

Accepting the challenge, Deckard opens his briefcase and

starts fishing out the apparatus.

THE VOIGHT-KAMPFF                                       35

Rachael's eye fills the screen, the iris brilliant, shot

with light, the pupil contracting.

In the soft green glow of the dials, the needles in both

gauges are at rest.  Dr. Tyrell stands silhouetted behind

Deckard, who sits in front of Rachael, a pencil beam

trained on her eye.  Wire mesh discs are attached to her

cheeks.

The needles in both gauges swing violently past green to

red, then subside.

Again the gauges register, but not so far.

Both needles go to red.  Deckard makes a note, takes a

sip of coffee and continues.

Deckard frowns, then smiles.  His smile looks a little

like a grimace or the other way around.

He notes the needles.  One goes green and the other

remains inert.

Both needles swing swiftly.

Needles move less.

Deckard moves the adhesive discs from her cheeks and

switches off his beam.

The lights come on.

Rachael sits very still.  Except her eyes -- they go to

Tyrell and hang on.  He stares back at her as he speaks.

Rachael sits rigidly in her chair, as the ground crumbles

around her, her big mermaid eyes locked with Tyrell.

His voice is quiet and strong, mesmerizing.  She's hang-

ing by a thread.

Deckard watches with a bas taste in his mouth.

Rachael nods fixedly.  Careful not to let go her grasp.

Slowly, carefully, Tyrell unlocks his gaze from Rachael

and turns towards Deckard, who is starting to put away

his equipment.

Deckard glances back at him.

Less of a man might shrink at the end of Deckard's look,

but not Tyrell.

Deckard almost smiles at the nasty power of Tyrell's

style.  He turns away and starts packing up the Voight-

Kampff.

Deckard is ready to go.

Deckard opens the door.

Rachael sits there very pale and expressionless, her

feet flat on the floor, alone is the word.

Trying to keep the fury out of it, Deckard's voice

comes out in a whisper.

On the last word, Rachael glances up at him and Deckard

turns away. The outer door slides open and he goes

through it.

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT                                     36

As seen through the windshield from the passenger side

of a vintage Dusenberg.  The headlights cut through the

dark, illuminating a narrow strip of mountain road.  A

downgrade.

A sign slides by stating:  "Caution Curves Ahead."

Good advice considering the sheer nightmare of a drop

to the right and the wall of solid rock to the left.

The steady HUM of the ENGINE and the HISS of the TIRES

will remain, but the location suddenly changes to:

INT. ROOM - NIGHT                                       37

A pleasant place of soft light and domestic charm.  The

young lady in the short dress is vacuuming the rug.

Her back to the viewer.  As she bends over to vacuum

beneath the couch, exposing her beautiful ass, an

admonishment from a resonant and slightly tired MALE

VOICE intercedes.

Abruptly the VIEW FLASHES BACK TO:

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT                                     38

The moon is up there slicing through the trees, strobing

over the hood of the car.  The road is getting steeper

and the corners sharper.  Rags of mist skim by as the

Dusenberg picks up speed.  It is becoming a riveting

ride, but the passenger's mind moves elsewhere.

EXT. WOODS - DAY                                        39

Swift, soft clouds overhead.  In the cold shine of

the icy light,the viewer walks down an aisle of maples

and beeches, their clean hard limbs deflecting the

frosty light, and underfoot the crisp, blue-white snow,

melted through in spots, exposing soggy patches of rich

brown earth.

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT                                     40

The Dusenberg is going faster now, headlights eating

up the road.  Rushing the corners in gut wrenching four-

wheel drifts.  Not a pleasant sensation if you don't

like roller-coasters.

The Dusenberg slides out of a corner and faces a couple

hundred yards of straightway leading to the next bend.

Good place for a breather, but the driver shifts into

high and screws on.

EXT. LAKE - DAY                                         41

Cold and gray.  The current running strong.  The nose

of a kayak points through the swells, the viewer paddling

for the shore.

This is cold remote country, wild and untouched.  A sky

bluer than the Madonna's cloak.  The kayak banks and

the viewer steps out, moving over the sandy beach

towards a little camp.

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT                                     42

In the Dusenberg the driver turns to look at the passen-

ger, his specter-like face obscured by shadow, but by

the glint of teeth, he must have just smiled.  And the

passenger's view snaps back to the road.

Suddenly another pair of headlights round the approach-

ing bend.  Large ones, of a bus or a truck.  Blinding.

The Dusenberg is going too fast to stop.  No room to

pass.  HORNS BLAST.  The Dusenberg brakes, goes into a

broadside skid.  The hands of the passenger reach out

and grip the mahogany dash.  Brakes locked, TIRES

SCREAMING, skidding.  The Dusenberg tears through the

railing and plunges into space.  The last view of the

passenger is pure vertigo.  Silence.

INT. DOCTOR WHEELER'S OFFICE - AFTERNOON                43

The good doctor is bending over his glass-top desk which

resembles a pin-ball machine.  Displayed under its

surface is a network of crisp electronic symbols and

read-outs indicating the results of the test.

Deckard detached the patches from his forehead, which

it a little damp, but other than that, he looks no

worse for wear, stands up to stretch and walks over to

the doctor's desk.

Dr. Wheeler is a thin boney man, aloof but a promise

of compassion in his sunken eyes.

Deckard starts to dress.

Wheeler studies his "desk" for a moment and his finger

comes down on the section illuminating Deckard's simple

statistics.

Deckard bends over slipping on his shoes.  Wheeler looks

up, concerned.

Deckard is ready to go.  Looking at Wheeler, a little

touched with his concern.

Wheeler considers it a moment, smiles and shakes his head.

They shake hands and Deckard walks.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON             44

The referee is bouncing around the ring, trying to keep

up with the two Mexican light-weights pounding the shit

out of each other.  If not for the fuzz and the silence,

the audio on the holoscope is off, you might think

you were ringside at the Garden.  It's a good fight but

Pris isn't watching.

She's got her feet up on the couch painting her toe

nails.  The room is so quiet you can almost hear the

polish.  She starts on her fourth toe when a NOISE

form above STOPS HER

It sounded like a CREAKING of a FLOOR, but so quiet,

sudden and over so fast it's hard to be sure.  She

stares at the ceiling a moment, then glances at

Sebastian.

On the other side of the room, in his own world,

Sebastian is peering into his magnifier, soldering

gossamer strands with a laser.

Pris has crossed the floor and is closing the door

quietly behind her.  If the animoids nestled around

the ledges of the room are capable of noticing, they'd

be the only ones in the room who did.

INT. CORRIDOR - SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTER-     45

NOON

Pris moving smoothly past the doors, some of them open

and warped offering sights and shadow and decay.

INT. FIRE STAIRS - SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTER-  46

NOON

The gloom in here is like the light of the empty well.

Her feet against the metal steps reverberate in the

hollow silence.

INT. THE FLOOR ABOVE SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - LATE       47

AFTERNOON

She's running now, down the hall, stops at the apart-

ment directly above Sebastian's and opens the door.

INT. APARTMENT ABOVE SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - LATE       48

AFTERNOON

Mary turns her head as Pris comes in.  She's sitting in

a chair.  The only piece of furniture in the room.

It's broken and tilts at a funny angle.  She nods and

Pris nods back.

Batty is lying on his back, rolling his head slightly

from side to side like he's soothing a stiff neck.

Batty nods he can't wait.  Pris glances at Mary and

gives a frigid little smile.  Pris backs out and closes

the door behind her.  Batty blows air through his

nostrils.  Like an animal.

EXT. DECKARD'S CAR - FREEWAY - NIGHT                    49

The sky is streaked with remnants of a lingering dusk.

Prisms of light flash over the sheen of Deckard's car

as he cuts off the freeway and sweeps down the off-

ramp curve.

EXT./INT. CAR - STREETS - NIGHT                         50

Moving through the dark city streets.  Deckard turns a

corner and guns it up a long, steep hill.

EXT. STREET - DECKARD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT               51

At the top of the hill the car pulls into a drive and

disappears into the subterranean garage of a high-rise.

INT. CORRIDOR DECKARD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT               52

He's coming down the hall carrying a foil wrapped

plastic plate and stops in front of his door.  It's

riddled with locks.  He slips a small device out of

his pocket, aims it at the door and the locks unlock,

the bolts slide open.  He walks in and kicks the door

shut behind him.

INT. DECKARD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                        53

He slips on the light and crosses the front room.

Deckard is a pack rat -- hard to tell if he just moved

in or is just moving out.

As he enters the kitchen, the SOUND of SOMEBODY BEHIND

him causes him to whirl around fast, hand snapped out

in front of him, gun already in it.  Rachael almost got

shot.  But she's unruffled, a little pale maybe, but

direct as ever.  There's a long, chilly moment, then

she almost smiles as her eyes move to the plate on the

floor.

Deckard looks down at the over-turned plate and nods.

She's holding out a cassette the size of a cigarette

pack.  But it's taking Deckard's adrenalin time to

recede.

He takes the cassette, but a man with so many locks

must be wondering how they were gotten through so easily.

He doesn't even want to ask.

He realizes he's still got the gun aimed at her and

sticks it back in his belt and they're left staring

at each other.  The situation makes awkward silence.

At least for him.  She's looking at him like she's

got something to say but isn't saying it.

He doesn't, but she's not backing off.

She smiles.

She lets it sink in.

It's a strong look that passes between them -- a long

one.  Maybe if he were on firmer ground he might do

something about such an offer but...

Deckard's eyes follow her down as Rachael bends to

the floor and starts picking the food off the rug, put-

ting it back on the plate.

He bends down to help, but she's already done it.

Their heads a few inches apart.  Something in her eyes

diminishes the distance even more.

And she is.  And suddenly he is too.  She hands him the

plate and they stand.  She's looking at the floor,

almost shy, then she looks up and he's watching her.

She says it plain and simple.

Deckard nods.  He feels it, but doesn't know what to

do about it.

These are not some of Deckard's finer moments.  But she

doesn't seem to notice.

Deckard nods, waits the respectable interval and is

glad to have a plate to take into the kitchen.

In the scrambled sanctuary of his kitchen Deckard looks

around for a place to put the plate, but things have

piled up on him in here.  He contemplates the refrig-

erator.

He's a lot more comfortable talking shop.

He dumps his dinner in the garbage and comes back out.

She's writing something on a card.

No way he can keep his foot out of it.  She looks up and

hands him the card.

She goes to the door, opens it but hesitates before

going through.

She looks back at him and smiles -- the smile says

she's talking about all kinds of locks.  Deckard looks

like he might ask her to stay, but...

And she's gone.

He looks down at the number.  It's the back side of a

snapshot.   He turns it over.  The picture of a man

and a woman.  The little girl between them looks like

a six-year old Rachael.

INT. DECKARD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                        54

He's sitting in front of his console studying pictures

of Nexus Sixes at they appear, blank-faced, hairless

and unadorned on his monitor.

The over-lay machine is transforming each image with

instant attributes; hair, moustaches, teeth, eye colors,

age, youth, hats, glasses, etc.  All in rapid succession,

running the gambit from ominous to beautiful.

On top of the monitor there's an open can of beans with

a spoon stuck in it.  Deckard puts out his cigarette

and reaches for them as the PHONE RINGS.

Deckard hangs up and looks at the beans.  He didn't

want them anyway.  He gets up and walks to the bedroom.

Looks through the pile of clothes on the floor, finds

his ankle laser and straps it on.

EXT. CITY - BIRD'S EYE VIEW - NIGHT                     55

The spinner skirts through the canyons of the city.

Deckard, sitting in the contoured seat, watches the

maze of suspension bridges, platforms and catwalks

swing by below.  The tops of larger buildings shimmer

with advertisements and weather announcements.

INT. SPINNER - OVER CITY - NIGHT                        56

Deckard is cruising low and slow over the city listen-

ing to Esper.

Back to business.

EXT./INT. SPINNER - LANDING AREA - NIGHT                57

Deckard taking it down.  About to pull it in an already

crowded lot, but the sign flashes "FULL."  Deckard

doesn't believe in signs; is about to set it down any-

way when a Chicano in a fluorescent coat runs out and

waves him off.

Pissed, Deckard veers away and buzzes low over and

around the roof tops, all dark and cramped -- not a

lot of room around here.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT                                      58

Finally brings it down between two buildings hardly

enough clearance, but he jockeys the machine into an

alley, touches down and runs it slowly along the surface

-- parking it by a sign that says "NO PARKING."

EXT. STREET - TAFFEY'S BAR - NIGHT                      59

Not many people.  Wind blowing.  A nest of garish

small-time clubs.

Deckard emerges from one, goes into the next.  The

pulsing neon over the entry says "TAFFEY'S BAR."

INT. TAFFEY'S BAR - NIGHT                               60

Crowded in here.  BONGO MUSIC.  Deckard is at the bar

sitting next to a big-bellied man in a black beard who's

looking through a viewer.  On the small stage in the

background AMAZING RAMA is eating razor blades, a part

of her juggling routine.

Deckard leaves the bar and walks down a hall towards a

door at the rear.

INT. TAFFEY'S OFFICE - NIGHT                            61

Taffey's what's referred to in the trade as a "Chicken

Hawk" collector of young girls.

It must be so, there's one in the bed.  Thin, pale,

about thirteen years old, eyes rolled up under her

fluttering eyelids, wires attached to her forehead,

lying flat on her back in Taffey's crowded little

room.

Taffey's a little fella with wide hips and narrow

shoulders, wears a jet black toupe and has a face like

a seal.  But at the moment he's not present.

There's a KNOCK at the DOOR, then the SOUND of a TOILET

FLUSHING.  Taffey comes out of the bathroom, heart

pounding under his polyester bathrobe, and approaches

the door like the guilty fucker he is.  He looks through

the peeper.

Deckard is out there holding up his I.D.

There is a pause lasting the time it takes Taffey not

to think of a way to say no.  The door opens and Deckard

enters.  Except for the drool coming out of the corner of

her mouth, and the fluttering eye-lids, Venus doesn't

move a muscle.

Deckard takes the  Identikit hard copies our of his

pocket and pushing some junk out of the way, fans them

out on the table.

Taffey bends down really close, peering at the pictures

from about two inches away.

He stops at Zhora.

Taffey nods.  Deckard goes to the door and turns.

It's starting to get a little gooey.  Deckard tips his

head good night and backs out of the door.

INT. THE OLD OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT                        62

Onstage four Mexican acrobats, in matching metallic

jumpsuits roll head over heels in their rendition of

a human wheel.  From the P.A. system the Announcer's

voice blares through the cavernous theatre.

Scattered APPLAUSE.  Hand in hand, the Hermano Brothers

bow deeply, spring up and trot offstage.

The old boys in the pit strike up a tinny version

of "In a Persian Market" as SALOME dances onstage.

She's a black-haired beauty in a scant belly dancer

costume, a couple of pounds overweight but all in

the right places.  She kneels ceremoniously center

stage and sets the basket down before her.  Carefully

removing the lid, she reaches in and lifts out a four-

foot harlequin-patterned python.  Grinding her hips

to the music, she rises, holding the coiling snake out

like an offering.  Sounds of approval from the audience.

The gold coins covering her breasts jingle and shimmer,

as she weaves sensuously around the floor.

INT. BACKSTAGE - NIGHT                                  63

To scattered APPLAUSE, HOOTS and WHISTLES, Salome

flounces offstage, the snake hung around her shoul-

ders, looking limp, and makes her way through the

narrow corridor to her dressing room.  She's about

to enter when:

She turns.  Deckard's posture and attitude suggest hum-

ble, sleazy persistence.  He comes closer with his

shit-eating grin.

Salome stands almost six feet high in her high heels

-- she looks down on him with the haughty suspicion

of a chick who knows how to handle cheap hits.

He holds up a hand as if to stop her from protesting.

He glances around like a guy who's not supposed to be

there.

She nods, taking it a little more seriously.

She's definitely puzzled.

This guy might be an asshole but he's funny.

She shrugs and they go in.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT                              64

Musty and cramped.  A portable shower, a dressing table

and not much else.  Salome takes the snake from around

her shoulders and lays it on the dressing table.  Deck-

ard watches it undulate into the warmth of the lights.

Deckard nods.  There's not much costume to take off but

she's doing it.

His hand reaches out to touch it.  As his fingers make

contact there's an electric "snap."  He jerks his hand

back from the shock.

She slides behind the screen and turns on the shower.

Deckard starts creeping around pacing around the room

like he's inspecting the walls.

His eyes are moving over everything she's got.

And to his amazement he actually spots one.  It's down

low on the wall.  Not a good idea to turn his back on

work but he can't resist.

Through the hole Deckard is looking at a pair of fat

legs.

He looks back.  She's some out of the shower dripping

nude.  She's taken off her black wig.  Her hair is

short and blonde.

Deckard recognizes her immediately from the identikit.

He stares at her a moment too long.

Deckard grins and she returns it.

She takes a towel off the table and starts to dry her

body.  The snake noses through the cosmetics, tongue

flicking trying to get back to its mistress.  Absently,

she reaches out to stroke the snake and suddenly laughs.

Her hand closes around the snake's head.  Deckard sees

it coming but can't move fast enough.  She strikes him

so hard it knocks him off his feet.  Before he hits the

floor, she kicks him in the stomach.  The snake whistles

through the air again as Deckard rolls out of the way.

It slams down so hard it ruptures against the floor.

He goes for his laser, but she's already out the door.

INT. PASSAGEWAY - NIGHT                                 65

Deckard bounds out of the room and sees her go through

a door at the other end of the hall.  He sprints after

her, arrives at the door and flings it open.  Black-

ness.  The SOUND of her high heels CLATTER down the

metal steps.

EXT. STREET - OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT                       66

It's raining heavily.

The front of the Opera House is open only to foot traf-

fic these days.  A bizarre place on a Friday night,

hawkers and whores, the rabble, the poor and the cur-

ious mill around the randy-built platforms and brightly

lit stands.   Zhora, in just a raincoat, is not out of

place in this flea market atmosphere.  Trying not to

run, she slices through the mob as quickly as she can.

Deckard is not far behind, dodging and side-stepping,

trying to move against the tide of people scurrying for

shelter.

She comes to an intersection and turns out of the mall

onto a less crowded street.  She glances over her

shoulder as she breaks into a run and runs right into

a couple of pedestrians.  All three go down.

Deckard comes out of the crowd in time to spot her get-

ting to her feet.  She sees him and runs.  The two ped-

estrians are in his line of fire.  He runs past them

and drops to one knee, leveling his laser.

She doesn't.  The beam flashes through the air, but

she's already around the corner.

With his bottom lip between his teeth, it hurts to move

so fast, Deckard jack-legs it into the street and jumps

in front of the first car coming.  It screeches to a

stop.  Deckard scrambles for the door, but the guy be-

hind the wheel has other ideas.  He peels out fast.

The next car slows down and swerves trying not to hit

him.  Deckard goes for the door and before the old ma-

tron inside can lock it, Deckard's yanked it open and

jumps in.  She screams as he pushes her into the pas-

senger seat and jams the car into a wrenching about

face.  The lady squeals like a pig as the momentum

plasters her against the door.

Deckard slams it around the corner and guns it down the

street.  It's long and it's empty and it's going by fast.

Nothing the old lady cares to see -- she's got her hands

over her eyes, whimpering, hoping she'll faint before

she dies.

Deckard takes the next left so hard he almost lays it

over.  As the car bounces off the curb he floors it.

Zhora's a hundred yards ahead, halfway down the street,

trying to make it back into the crowded mall.  She's

running fast, but the car is faster.

As he passes her, Deckard hits the brakes and skids

broadside seventy feet.  The door flies open and he

rolls out FIRING.

Zhora's ducking it with no where to go, except...

The showcase window on her left EXPLODES as she crashes

through.

It's a corner shop joined to a series of stores, front-

ing the mall.  Deckard runs to the opening she's made

and pours FIRE through the tunnel of her jagged wake as

Zhora breaks through one window after another, getting

sliced, getting shot, trying to get away from Deckard's

laser.  But she doesn't.

His last shot burns a hole through the base of her

skull.  It kills her but doesn't stop her.  Her speed

takes what's left of her through the last two windows

and into the street where she runs into a parked car

with such force that she embeds herself in the side of

it.

Hunched over, breathing hard, Deckard comes slowly for-

ward.  The crowd starting to gather.  There's something

for everybody and they're coming from all directions.

Deckard moves through them, edging to have a look.

It's not a good thing to see.  It looks like Salome

and the car tries to eat each other.  A bloody feast

of metal and flesh.

Deckard bows his head, sick, exhausted.  So much commo-

tion he doesn't notice THREE COPS closing in from

behind.

Deckard has his back to them.  They're fanned out and

crouched, ready to fire.  Deckard drops his laser.  Two

of them rush up, spin him around while the third does a

frisk.

TWO MORE COPS arrive, wary and wild-eyed, pushing the

people back -- his is not a good place for cops.

Deckard's ankle laser is discovered by the Cop frisking

him.  With a snarl he pulls it out and hands it back to

the SERGEANT covering the action.

Deckard's not in the mood for it.

He's reaching for his ID.  The Cop with the rubber

billy hits him in the head.

One thrill after another.  Somebody in the crowd YEOWLS.

The last thing Deckard hears as he falls.  The Cop

reaches inside Deckard's coat for the concealed weapon

they missed, but it's an ID card.  He looks at it for a

moment, then looks up.

An embarrassing situation.

The Cops start pushing.  And for one split second one

of the crowd looks a lot like Leon.

INT. OLD OPERA HOUSE - MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT               67

Your standard low class crapper.  Bryant is planted

firmly on the cracked tile floor next to the urinals

rubbing his face, trying not to pop the clutch in his

anger.  This is a public place, he doesn't want to

yell.

It's not the sort of question that expects an answer.

Deckard's washing his face in the basin hoping it'll

all go away.

Deckard looks up dripping, reaches for a paper towel.

Bryant slaps one in his hand.

Bryant takes a couple of deep breaths.

Deckard's voice is barely audible.

He slams the handle on one of the urinals.

The PLUMPING ROARS and SUCKS and DIES.  There's nothing

to do but nod.  Deckard nods.  Poor bastard has had a

rough night.  Bryant pulls a flask out of his coat and

hands it to him.  Deckard puts it to his mouth and

Bryant watches Deckard's Adam's apple like he's count-

ing the swallows.  Deckard hands it back empty.  Bryant

caps it, puts it back in his pocket.

Bryant shuffles out like an old bear.

INT. OLD OPERA HOUSE - BAR - NIGHT                      68

Cheap whiskey and bad wine.  That's the kind of place

this is.  It's near closing.  But still a few at the

bar.  Alcoholic silhouettes.

In the b.g. Deckard comes down the passage from the

men's room and stops at the phone.  He gets a number

out of his pocket and calls it.  As he talks he leans

against the wall, his body language intimate and chummy.

Not much action at the bar other than somebody snoring

and a dipso down at the end having a conversation with

himself.

Deckard hangs up, walks to the bar and straggles a

stool.  The BARTENDER's a big lady with tits like sand

bags and a voice that plays no favorites.

Deckard glances at his stool-mate.  A huge MAN, slumped

over the bar like a beached whale.

The whale doesn't move, but it speaks, with a gravelly

Russian accent.

But the big man's digging through his pockets.  Deck-

ard's drink arrives and the Russian raises his head.

It's a big melancholy face with a glint of warmth in

his red-rimmed eyes and a smile that could melt your

heart.  But it's Leon.

Deckard brings out his smokes.  Offers one.  Leon takes

it and they light up.  The drinks come.

Down the hatch.  Leon slaps his glass on the bar, reach-

es into his pocket, brings out a little match box and

slaps that down too.  It's done with such pride that

Deckard has to look.

Leon smiles broadly and with ceremonious care opens the

box and dumps three live cockroaches on the bar.

Deckard looks interested.  One of them starts to scamp-

er away, but Leon walls off the next with his huge hand.

Leon leans closer like he doesn't want the cockroaches

to hear.

Deckard nods, definitely interested.  He signals the

bartender for another round.  The drinks arrive.

Down the hatch.  Their eyes meet at the bottom.

Deckard shakes his head, but he'd like to.

Leon smiles slyly.

Leon brings a cube of sugar out of his pocket and puts

it on the bar.  They both lean down and watch intently.

The drinks come and are put away, but the cockroaches

are not cooperating.

Leon is catching the roaches and one by one puts them

back in their box.  He holds up the last and kisses it.

What neither of them notices is that between Leon's

fingers, his stub of his cigarette is burning his flesh.

Deckard lifts his glass, it is empty.

Deckard gets on his feet, leans forward like a man in

a stiff wind and stops.

Leon watches his walk a perfect straight line through

the bar down the passage and out of the rear exit.

EXT. ALLEY - OLD OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT                    69

Deckard reels out.  The door swings shut and he's sober

as hell and moving fast.  Around the big trash dumpster

alongside the building, he plasters himself against the

wall and his gun is out, aimed at the door.  He's in a

good spot with a perfect line of fire.  Moments go by

and he's glad for the time to steady himself.  The

SOUND of his BREATHING, the HUM of the city and the

quiet.

Suddenly from behind, Deckard is swept off his feet and

twirled around in Leon's bear-trap embrace.

Leon lets go and Deckard hits the pavement, skidding

hard enough to tear clothes and burn skin, but he rolls

out of it and comes up with gun in hand; but Leon is so

fast he's already there and kicks it out of his hand.

Leon moves towards him, backing Deckard against the wall.

His hand is lightning.  It shoots out, grabs Deckard's

hair.

Deckard is pale.  The sweat is starting to run.

The grip tightens and twists.

He lets go.

Deckard's knees come up fast.  Leon's fist comes down

faster, like a hammer.

Deckard is doubled over, hugging his thigh.

Even hurt, Deckard is fast.  He goes for his ankle gun,

but Leon's got it out of his hand before he can even

raise it and throws it down the alley.

Deckard hurls forward, knocking him off balance, and

scrambles to get away.  Leon grabs him by the foot,

drags him back and jerks him off the ground.

He slams Deckard into the wall.

Deckard slides down the wall to his knees and huddles,

protecting his head with his arms, waiting for the next

one.

Leon folds his big hands together and raises them over

his head, pausing just a second to savor the satisfac-

tion of smashing Deckard's skull.

The spasm that runs through Leon's face is not from

satisfaction.  It's the bullet that went through his

neck.  He hits the ground hard, his big teeth biting

the air like a rabid dog.  Dead.

Rachael is standing in the alley.  Deckard lies there

looking at her.  She comes slowly and quietly forward

and drops Deckard's gun by his side.

Deckard gets to his hands and knees and tries to get

up, but can't quite manage it.  He looks up at her,

panting, spits blood and almost smiles.

After a long moment, she bends down to touch him.

INT. DECKARD'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - NIGHT             70

He's lying in the tub with a drink, eyes half mast,

water up to his chin, bruised and beat, but looking

just a little wicked in his balmy luxury.

He takes a drink and clears his throat.

He doesn't answer.  Lies there sipping his drink.

Rachael comes in a little uncertain, a little droll,

and stands there looking down at him.

She sits on the edge of the tub.

She's wearing a short-sleeved dress.  It's a long, del-

icate arm and Deckard holds it, inspecting it like a

maestro with a Stradivarius.  He looks up at her.

He's got her hand in the water and had begun to soap

her arm.  Starting with her wrist and running the bar

to her elbow, up and down, slow and slippery.  She

watches, not quite sure of the ritual.

He pulls her closer, and runs his hand up higher, mould-

ing and pressing, working around her flesh, up and under

her arm into the privacy of her dress.

Oh, yes.  For a moment Deckard stares at her like some

furry-legged satyr in rut, the fingers of his other

hand rake through her hair and into the water she comes.

INT. DECKARD'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - MORNING            71

The bed looks like it was hit by a storm and Deckard

looks like something that was washed up in it.  He's

spread out flat, face creased and puffed.

His eyes squint open, but only for a moment.  His

hands are more reliable.  They search over the bed,

but find it bare.  He edges his head over the side,

looking around for signs, but she's all gone.  He

gets up in two stages, sits and then stands.  Then

sits again, resting his head in his hands.

INT. DECKARD'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - MORNING           72

Deckard's got his face in the mirror shaving it.  It's

been a long night.  Nothing a new tongue and a trans-

fusion wouldn't put right.  He moves a couple of inches

to the left so his eyes have a view of the tub.

INT. DECKARD'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - MORNING        73

Deckard is on the edge of the couch with the phone on

his knees, the card with Rachael's number in his lap

and having no luck.

That's not soon enough.  Deckard hangs up, puts the

phone on the floor and leans back on the couch.

INT. MR. DEETCHUM'S APARTMENT - MORNING                 74

The rooster perched on the chair spreading its scrawny

wings, strains from the tips of its toes, crowing at

the ceiling.  Between crows there's a TAPPING at the

door.

You might call this a "barnyard" apartment.  There's

straw on the floor and several hens roosting against

the back wall.  The front door opens a few inches and

Sebastian pokes his head in.

Nobody seems to be home except his chickens.  As Sebas-

tian enters, closing the door behind him, a goose

charges out of the bedroom hissing and honking.

Seeming to recognize Sebastian as no intruder, Waddles

veers off from the attack.  As Sebastian crosses the

room a pig peeks out from behind the couch.

He goes to the chickens and collects some eggs, putting

them into a bowl he's brought.  He puts down the bowl

and reaching into his pocket carefully counts out the

payment and puts the money on a plate.  He's about to

leave but notices there's no water in the dispenser.

Pouring from a jug on the table, he fills the dispenser

with water, scatters a little grain on the floor, gets

his bowel of eggs and leaves.

Wrigley grunts and comes out from behind the couch for

a long drink.

INT. CORRIDOR - SEBASTIAN'S FLOOR - MORNING             75

Sebastian arrives on his floor, walks down the hall to

his apartment, opens the door, walks in.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - DAY                        76

He turns to close door, comes face to face with Roy

Batty.  Sebastian drops his bowl of eggs.  Batty's

hand flashes out and catches it.

Smiling, Batty hands them back to Sebastian, who is

too startled to speak.

Pris runs up and gives Batty and Mary a big hug, steps

back effusing and smiling, everybody's favorite teen-

ager.

He pumps Sebastian's free hand.

Sebastian turns and there's Aunt Mary, modest and warm.

Sebastian stands there with his eggs, bashful and ex-

cited, the hero of this little family's warm attention.

Sebastian is nodding and smiling.

Batty looks around admiringly.  Sebastian mumbles some-

thing that sounds like "Thank you."

Everybody nods.  A long pause.

They glance around the room, waiting for Sebastian to

pick up the ball.

Sebastian is truly happy.

He disappears into the kitchen.  Batty looks happy with

the way things are going.

Pris comes up close.  Her tone muted but demanding.

Batty finds her attitude amusing, which makes her even

more pugnacious.

There's a punitive edge to Batty's response.

Pris is shocked.  Her whisper comes out a hiss.

A little spotted pig on the table sits up.

They all turn and stare at the pig.  Batty is delighted.

The BELL-TONE from the microwave goes off in the kitchen.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR AND ROOM - DAY                   77

Holden is laid out in an apparatus that resembles an

iron lung.  A little above his head, facing him, is a

bank of bio-feedback lights registering body functions.

Deckard is in a chair sitting next to his friend.

Holden has lost weight, his face is grey, he can't

move his head, but he's smiling like the cat who ate

the canary.

Holden's voice is just a whisper -- the kind of whisper

that comes out of the joker at the back of the class.

Holden's eyes close, his smile gets bigger and little

spasms of laughter pump out of his mouth.

Holden giggles.  Starts to laugh again.  A blue light

on the panel begins to turn very bright.  They both

notice it.

They wait for the light to abate.

Deckard doesn't deny it.  Holden smiles like a cherub.

Deckard has to wait for him to stop giggling.

Holden bites his bottom lip to keep the laugher out of

his voice, but he can't.

Holden stops talking for a moment to get some air.

Holden laughs, Deckard doesn't.

Holden's whispers have become harder to hear.

Deckard stands.

But he's already asleep.  Deckard stands there a moment

looking at him, then walks out.

INT. DECKARD'S APARTMENT - DAY                          78

He's sitting on the couch, glum, contemplative.

There's a SOUND.  His eyes move to the door.  Those

locks are opening again.  Rachael comes in.  Looks

surprised to see him.  Him too.

He likes that.

He is.  She's spunky.  Hasn't seen this place in the

daytime.  Pleased, he watched her move around the mess.

She spots a little framed photograph.  Picks it up.

It's a man with a shotgun and a boy holding up a quail.

She puts it down and comes to him.

She sits next to him.

Pleased as hell, they both sit there staring straight

ahead.  He looks at her.  She looks at him.

INT. DECKARD'S BEDROOM - DAY                            79

They're under the sheet.  Rachael is on her back, look-

ing at the ceiling, hair sprawled like sea grass over

the pillow.  Deckard lies next to her, a man studying

a treasure.

His hand moves over her shoulder.

His hand goes under the sheet.

She feels good.  He moves closer.

He kisses her lightly on the cheek.

Her face is close.  She's looking right at him.  Her

lips are right there.

Slowly their lips touch and his arms slide under her

body.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - DAY                        80

Batty, Pris and Mary sit at the table staring at their

host.  Sebastian is staring back, his fork halfway to

his mouth, looking from face to face.  Although nothing

is being said, he's totally comfortable, as much at

home with them as he is with his animoids.

Batty nods his head, smiling, sending home the fact and

Sebastian is certainly getting it.

A long pause.

Sebastian is smiling from ear to ear.

Sebastian whistles.  Mary's head is shaking slightly.

Pris gets up and moves to the couch.  Batty couldn't

be more pleased.

Sebastian looks like a kid on Christmas Eve.

His voice is trembling.

Like a million things, but he's too excited to think of

one.

Pris perks up proudly.

It's a command Pris is pleased to obey.  She sits quiet-

ly a moment, hands folded in her lap, prim and proper.

Mary doesn't like these displays, but Batty is beaming.

Those hands in Pris' lap suddenly move, almost faster

than the eye can see and slam down on either side of

her, digging into the material with such ferocity that

Sebastian jumps.  She plunges into the guts of the couch

up to her elbows and comes up holding springs and stuff-

ing.  Except for the clenched teeth, she is smiling like

an angel.

Sebastian is riveted, his eyes wide and astounded, like

he's just seen the devil.  He laughs nervously, glad

that the devil is a friend.

Sebastian sneaks a glance.  Pris is staring at him with

big childlike eyes, Sebastian looks back at Batty, moved

but helpless.

Batty nods.

Batty leans forward and looks right into Sebastian's

eyes.

There's no way Sebastian could say no, even if he

wanted to.

Pris sits up smiling.  Mary sighs a breath of relief

and Batty leans back nodding in gratitude.

Pris gets up and comes to Sebastian and kisses him.

That has a lot of impact.  Sebastian looks around try-

ing to keep the tears from coming.

INT. DECKARD'S APARTMENT BEDROOM - DAY                  81

Rachael is lying across the bed in one of Deckard's

shirts, her chin over the edge, her eyes moving around

the room.  Deckard lies next to her.  Looking like a

man who died a voluptuous death.

He rolls over to admire her legs.

He kisses the back of her thigh.

He kisses her other thigh, gets up and goes into the

bathroom.

Rachael lies there a moment, then gets up and goes into

the front room and opens the closet door.  The vacuum is

not easy to get to, but finally she wrestles it out.  As

she starts to plug it in --

He's wrapped in a sheet, watching her from the doorway.

She stares at him like he's nuts.

Reluctantly she makes some half-hearted passes with the

thing.

She bends over to get it.  Deckard pulls up a chair and

sits down with his chin in his hands.  She looks back

at him.

She drops the vacuum and sits on the floor.  Deckard

gets up and comes towards her.  Her eyes travel halfway

down his sheet and she leaves.

EXT. TYRELL PRESERVE - DUSK                             82

Mansion and opulent grounds.  Sebastian's humble truck

parked among richer relations, including a spinner and

a 1928 Dusenberg.

EXT. TYRELL MANSION - DUSK                              83

The den.  It contains a collection of big game trophies,

and among all this sits Sebastian very straight and

proper with an "egg" the size of a basketball in his

lap.

Old Hannibal Chew was right, the rich make you wait.

Sebastian stands and carefully makes his way between

the trophies to a window with a view of the grounds.

EXT. TYRELL MANSION POOL - DUSK                         84

Tyrell's young WIFE sits on the diving board watching

her husband in the pool with their youngest TOT.  And

two older LADS swim around trying to outdo each other

for their dad's attention.

From the sidelines an old servant pauses to watch the

fun, then continues with a tray of mugs towards the

house.

EXT. PLATEAU - DUSK                                     85

And beyond on a plateau overlooking the grounds, a

figure stands watching, waiting like a bird of prey.

EXT. TYRELL PRESERVE - DUSK                             86

On a gravel path between shrubs of winter roses, Tyrell

turns to observe the last quiet light over his kingdom.

The moment is sweetened by the LOW PLAINTIVE BELLOW of

one of the animals.

He strolls by an old gardener who tips his cap, pro-

ceeds up the steps and into his mansion.

INT. TYRELL DEN - NIGHT                                 87

Next to a tray of cookies and milk, Sebastian sits pa-

tiently with the "egg" in his lap.  As the door opens

he gets to his feet expectantly.  It's STYLES, Tyrell's

bodyguard.  He could play the Giant in Jack and The

Beanstalk.

Sebastian would rather put it in the boss's hands, but

Styles takes it and is almost through the door when

Sebastian stops him.

He almost forgot.

Sebastian hands him a little box.  Styles stuffs it in

his pocket and shuts the door behind him.

EXT. TYRELL PRESERVE - NIGHT                            88

Motionless and monumental, six buffalo stand like stat-

ues in the grass.  Suddenly they swing their shaggy

heads to watch something pass.

In the dark silence Batty stops to look at the curious

beasts and then moves soundlessly towards the mansion.

INT. TYRELL DINING ROOM - NIGHT                         89

It's a medieval-sized hall.  The piece de resistance is

an 18th Century, English painting of an Arab stallion,

gleaming like coal over the CRACKLING fireplace.

The entire family is seated at the table which glitters

for the festive occasion.  Presents gathered around the

oldest child.

Styles hands the "egg" to Tyrell.  A hush falls over

the table.  This is Dad's big present.  Tyrell sets is

down before the boy.

IAN is a fresh, slim lad who is ten today.  He looks up

at his father, then, beaming, pries open the "egg's"

hinged lid.  Tyrell's hand goes to his pocket and the

griffon steps out of the shell.

Basically an avian invention, it has wings and plumage,

the head of an eagle, the body of a lion and weighs no

more than eight pounds.  It cranes its neck and testing

its balance, stands on one leg and then hops to the

edge of the table and into the air.

The littlest tot claps her hands as the griffon beats

its wings rapidly and rises towards the ceiling.  Turn-

ing in a forty-five degree, it suddenly drops into a

dive.

Delighted, the children shriek and scream as the griffon

swoops over their crouching heads and sails the length

of the hall -- its silhouette flickering briefly over

the ancestral portraits of the Tyrell clan.

Reaching the end of the room, it banks sharply and

flies back towards the table, cups its wings, spreads

its tail and comes in for an awkward landing.  They're

laughing and clapping as it waddles down the table and

knocks over a glass and stops in front of Ian.

He bends down and kisses his wife.

Pleased he excuses himself and heads for the den.

INT. TYRELL DEN - NIGHT                                 90

Tyrell comes in and sits behind his desk.  Sebastian

hands down the invoices.  Tyrell glances over them and

writes out a check.

He looks up to hand it over when he sees Batty against

the wall, by the door.  For a fraction of a second he's

shocked, but recovers fast.

Batty smiles.

Very slowly Tyrell's hand moves towards the back side

of the desk.

What's in Batty's eyes completes the warning.  Tyrell

decides to heed it.

Tyrell looks at Sebastian.  Considers consequences.

Back to Batty.

Batty thinks it over.

He slips out closing the door behind him.  Opens it

again and sticks his head it.

He's gone.

If Tyrell is scared he's doing a good job of concealing

it.

Batty cuts in with a whisper.

Batty walks forward.

Batty does.

Batty nods grimly.

Batty smiles bitterly.

Tyrell can't help a flash of pride.

Shoulders hunched, Batty looks down, an uncharacteristic

note of guilt in his voice.

They share a laugh.  In spite of himself, there's a look

of relief in Tyrell's face as Batty extends his hand.

Tyrell takes it and they shake.  The reverence in Bat-

ty's eyes caused Tyrell a fatherly smile.  The smile

turns into a growl as he feels the bones in his hands

crack.  Before the scream comes out of his mouth, Batty

stifles it.

Tyrell claws at the iron fingers, but they're sinking

into his face.  Placing his other hand behind Tyrell's

head, Batty squeezes them together and squashes the

man's head like a melon.  The mess is not small.

Palms up, like a surgeon, Batty walks to the drapes and

wipes off the gore and without looking back, strolls out

of the room.

INT. TYRELL - HALL TO KITCHEN - NIGHT                   90A

Styles is coming down the hall.  He sees Batty coming

towards him.  Styles looks at him curiously, this is not

one of the guests.  As they close, Batty smiles.

Styles doesn't get a chance to answer.  Batty's hand has

torn into his crotch.  The man is lifted off the floor,

up the wall and held a moment.  Whatever is encased in

his pelvis is pulverized.  Batty lets go.  Styles hits

the floor.  He died of shock.  Grinding his teeth, Batty

continues towards the SOUNDS OF THE FESTIVITIES.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT                                91

The birthday cake has arrived, the candles lit.  They're

waiting for Dad.  Mrs. Tyrell looks around to find Batty

observing from the doorway.

A little startled, a little curious, but ever the cor-

porate wife, she smiles.

Batty smiles back and shakes his head in mock regrets.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT                                    92

In the sink the faucet is on.  The water pink with

blood.  Batty is washing his hands.

A portly maid emerges from the pantry.  Batty looks up.

She stops, embarrassed at being caught.  Her eyes no-

tice drops of blood on the floor and follow them to the

door.  When she looks back, Batty is right in front of

her.

INT. DECKARD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                          93

Books scattered on the bed.  Rachael sitting cross-

legged with one in her lap, looking through exquisite

shots of nature.  Deckard is next to her, watching her

like a lover, like a father.

She looks up stunned by the beauty of a photo, but with

no need to comment.  It's in her eyes.  She stares at

him, a revelation taking shape.

He considers it and she stares at him, smiling at the

wonder of it.

Convinced and not convinced, he nods his head.  She

laughs at his solemnity.  She's irresistible.  Deckard's

pretty irresistible himself.

The CHIME on the PHONE next to the bed GOES OFF.  He

reaches out and brings it to his ear.

A pause.

Deckard says nothing.

He hangs up the receiver and gets up.  She watches him

from the bed.  The gun goes into his belt.  He loads

the ankle job and straps it on.  She watches every move.

Without looking at her, he puts on his jacket.

He's standing in the middle of the floor with his back

to her.  He turns and they're facing one another.

Neither of them moves.

He goes to the door.

He has to laugh.

He turns and goes through the door.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                      94

Sebastian is putting his work table in order, but his

mind is not with it and his hands are trembling.

Batty, Pris and Mary are on the other side of the room

talking:  their voices low.

Batty smiles.

Sebastian has almost reached the door.

They all watch.

Sebastian walks away from the door.

She's too fragile for that logic, but it appeals to

Pris.  She and Batty hold a look that burns.

Sebastian is by the window.

Batty goes to the window and looks down.

Sebastian looks ready to bolt.  Batty puts an arm

around him.

A pause.

EXT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                      95

In the dim, nocturnal light, Deckard crosses into the

courtyard fronting the building and stops.  He looks

around.  Nobody there, just silence.

He comes closer to the building and stands in the sha-

dows off to one side of the entry.

His head jerks up to the SOUND OF CRASHING GLASS.

Sebastian comes hurtling down and explodes into the

pavement thirty feet below.

Deckard's eyes move up the line of descent, the shat-

tered window on the next-to-top floor.

INT. SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT LOBBY - NIGHT                96

Not much to see, But Deckard misses none of it as he

crosses the floor and positions himself in the spot of

least exposure.  He looks around.  Elevator and stair-

well.

Close to the wall, he moves towards the elevator, keep-

ing an eye on the stairwell door.

Stepping to one side, he hits the button.  The elevator

door slides open.  He reaches in, presses a button and

as the doors slide shut, Deckard slips a pen between

the doors, jamming the operation.

Deckard's shoes and soundless as he quickly crosses the

lobby floor.  He pauses a moment in front of the stair-

well door, then pushes it open and:

INT. STAIRWELL, SEBASTIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT           97

Steps into the dark on the other side.  Suddenly he

spins, dropping to the floor, and FIRES three times in-

to the figure hovering to his left.

The man is hanging off the floor, his arms locked into

the railing, neck broken -- with three holes in his

chest... but he was already dead.

Deckard stares at the corpse.  It's Mr. Deetchum, the

old watchman.  That RUSTLING SOUND are rats who were

feeding on him, scampering for safer places, Deckard

gets to his feet.

The stairway rectangles ten stories up.  As his foot

touches the first step, a raw, terrified SCREAM shatters

the air.  It came from below.  It's the cry of a young

girl -- it GROWS TO A PIERCING SHRIEK AND ABRUPTLY

STOPS.  Deckard ejects the half-used cartridge from his

laser, inserts a fresh one and quiet as the silence,

descends the basement stairs.

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT                                   98

At the bottom he faces a corridor.  The FAINT HUM OF

MACHINERY comes from the double doors at the far end.

The HUM BECOMES A RATTLE by the time he gets there.

Each door is fitted with a small window.  Deckard

steps to the side and peers through.

INT. GYM - NIGHT                                        99

It's a gym.  The mirror-lined walls are cracked and

tarnished, the equipment atrophied from lack of use.

The heavier barbells have sunk into the floor.  Two

weight-reducing machines are flapping and grinding away

like idiots.  Deckard's eyes stop on the woman.

She dangles a few feet off the floor, hung by the

shoulders through rings suspended from the ceiling.

Her head is slung forward, her body limp and slightly

swaying.

Deckard pushes open one of the doors until it touches

the wall.  Slowly, he advances toward the hanging figure,

keeping an eye on the mirror to cover surprises from the

door.  He's not breathing hard.  His heart isn't pound-

ing.  Deckard's in his element.

Close enough to look up into her face, he stops.  It

isn't grisly death that causes the reaction in his

eyes.  It's the innocence of her angel face.

It's not something he has time to consider.  In the

mirror behind him, he sees the door starting to open.

Deckard spins.  He shouldn't have.  Pris' legs snap up,

crack the laser out of his hand and clamp around his

neck.

Slowly, the door swings closed, but Deckard doesn't

notice.  His carotid artery is no longer sending blood

to the brain.  He jerks up his foot and reaches down.

As his fingers close around the ankle laser, Pris'

fingers close around his wrist.  Deckard's hand opens

like a flower.  The laser drops to the floor as his

eyes roll back into his head.

She lets go, but before he can fall, she rams a foot

into his back.  He's propelled fifteen feet across the

room, slams into a machine and falls to the floor.

Pris flies off the rings and comes at him.

Deckard reaches out to pull himself up, but she's al-

ready there.  Not too hard and just in the right place,

she kicks him in the stomach.  He goes back to the

floor, gagging for air.  Oh-so-precisely she reaches

out with a long index finger and flips the switch on

the machine.

It's a flab eliminator with a vibrator belt.  Normally

an innocuous piece of equipment, but the motor housing

on this one is missing.  Lots of GRINDING METAL.  A

bad place for flesh and bone.

But that's where Deckard's hand is going.  An eight-

year-old against a full-down man.  In two more seconds

his hand will be ground round.  Deckard tries to pull

his hand loose.  It won't come.  He yanks hard, but

it's welded in hers.

His face is twisted and strained as he raises a leg,

wedges his foot against her chest and pushes with all

his might.  The hold breaks.  They topple back.  Deckard

hits the floor gulping to catch his breath.  Pris is up

and coming for him again.  She hovers over him.  Deckard

rolls out of the way as she comes down like a pile

driver.

Reflexively Deckard raises his arm to protect himself.

Pris just smiles, takes hold of his foot and drags him

across the floor.  She doesn't like to leave a piece of

work unfinished.  They're going back to the machine.

He goes by a weight-stand of dumbbells and grabs hold.

It doesn't stop him.  He's sliding over the floor like

it was ice, weight stand in tow.

Pris gets to the machine, yanks his foot up and forces

it toward the opening.  Deckard sits up, a five-pound

dumbbell in his hand, and clobbers her in the back.  It

knocks her off balance, but she doesn't let go of his

foot.  She hooks out with a fist but misses.  He gets

her with a roundhouse in the face.

She goes to the floor and Deckard's up, the dumbbell

over his head, coming down with it.  Fighting for her

life now, Pris drives a foot into his chest.  It lifts

him off the floor.  He flies back across the gym and

lands in a heap.

No more games.  Pris is furious and moving fast.  She

rips a steel bar out of the wall and, holding it over-

head, charges him like a samurai.  As she comes down

for the kill, she freezes.

Deckard landed near the laser.  He crawls towards it.

As in a nightmare, it takes forever.  But he gets there.

He reaches out and grabs the laser, rolls over and

takes careful aim.  She charges towards him, screaming

her rage.  He FIRES as she comes.

The shot amputates her left arm at the shoulder, but

her hand doesn't let go of the bar.  It dangles crazily

in front of her as she charges forward.

He PUTS THE NEXT ONE through her neck.  Pris hiccups a

rope of blood as she flies through the air and crashes

next to Deckard.  Dead.

He lies next to her, chest heaving.  Slowly he rolls

over and gets to his hands and knees.  Panting, he stag-

gers to his feet and stands over her, swaying slightly.

The sound that escapes his throat is raspy and dry.  It

might not sound like a war cry, but it is.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT                                   100

Laser in hand, Deckard kicks open the swinging doors

and walks into the corridor, a dangerous man.

INT. STAIRWELL - NIGHT                                  101

Deckard arrives at the main floor landing, checks his

loads and continues up the stairs.  He's going to shoot

the next thing that moves and find out later if he was

right or wrong.

INT. STAIRWELL - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT                   101A

On the next landing he throws the door open.  His eyes

move down the hall, looking for prints in the dust.

None.  He continues up the stairs.

INT. NINTH FLOOR - NIGHT                                102

On the ninth floor he finds what he's looking for.

Footprints coming and going from a door halfway down the

hall.  He stops to the side of it and listens.  Silence.

Deckard FIRES three quick shots through the door.  If

somebody were on the other side of it, they aren't now.

He kicks the door open and dives through head first

and hits the floor in a roll, POURING FIRE into the

far corners of the room but the room is empty.  There's

a kitchen bar, a closet and a bedroom door, both

closed.  Deckard's breathing is the only sound.  No

response from either door.

Maybe it was a sound, maybe intuition, but suddenly

Deckard twists around and FIRES several shots into the

closet.  The smouldering door slowly creaks open.

Mary is huddled in the rear of the closet.  Her hand

out like somebody about to catch a ball but afraid of

it.  In her other hand she clutches a button-eyed

monkey.  Her face is bewildered, frozen in fear, her

body riddled with holes.  No recognition gap here.

Deckard SHOOTS her through the neck to make sure.  Mary

falls to the floor, like a puppet with her strings cut.

Deckard backs away from the pathetic figure in the

closet and sits on the sofa, unable to take his eyes

off her.

Deckard lays the laser down next to him, holds out his

hand and looks at it.  It's steady.  He drops it in

his lap, closes his eyes and leans back.

A TAPPING from the ceiling.  Deckard looks up.

A KNOCK -- with the proverbial DOUBLE RAP at the end.

A pause.  Deckard jumps out of the way as the ceiling

gives in.  Chucks on concrete and plaster hit the

couch where he was sitting.  The hole is a couple feet

in diameter -- beams cracked through, exposing the

apartment above.  Silence.  Deckard wipes the plaster

dust from his eyes and mouth, then whispers:

INT. STAIRWELL - NINTH AND TENTH FLOOR - NIGHT          103

Deckard comes out onto the landing.  Taking his time,

he climbs the steps to the next floor, the last floor.

He SHOOTS the hinges out of the big stairwell door,

pushes it with his foot and it comes down with a BANG.

The REVERBERATIONS turn into silence.  The corridor is

empty.

INT. CORRIDOR - TENTH FLOOR - NIGHT                     104

Moving fast but cautious, he passes each door until he

gest to the apartment above Sebastian's.  Slowly he

turns the know and pushed open the door.

INT. APARTMENT - TENTH FLOOR - NIGHT                    105

Except for the hole in the middle of the floor, there's

nothing to see.  Back against the wall, he moves to-

wards the bedroom, but stops at the NOISE.  It sounds

like the HOOTING OF AN OWL and it's coming from the

hallway.

INT. CORRIDOR - TENTH FLOOR - NIGHT                     106

Deckard looks around the corner of the door down the

hall.  Batty's at the other end.  Except for jockstrap

and gym shoes, he's nude.

Deckard FIRES.  Batty's fast.  He ducks into a doorway.

Pops out again.

The makeup on Batty's face is somewhere between a Coman-

che warrior and a transvestite.  The immensity of his

insolence awesome -- the muscles of his body are swol-

len, trembling from the thrill of it.

In a blue of lightning-like action, Batty whips down the

hall, zigzagging off the walls towards Deckard so fast

that Deckard gets only three SHOTS off before the blur

crashes through the wall on his left with a laugh.

Deckard stands there a moment -- digesting the impact

of it, then edges up to the gaping wall.  Batty is be-

hind him.

He knees Deckard in the back and slaps him in the head.

Deckard goes to his knees, then over on his face.

Batty kneels next to him.

Deckard's eyes are closed, mouth bleeding.  He exhales

and makes and effort.  He slides his hands up even with

his chest and starts to push.

Like a matador, Batty walks away.  By the time Deckard's

on his feet, Batty's disappeared through one of the

doors.

Deckard wipes the blood from his mouth, bends down and

picks up his laser, reloads and looks down the hall,

towards the jeering voice.

Deckard gets to the door, BLASTS it, kicks it open and

FIRES at Batty.  But it's only the reflection of Batty.

INT. ROOM - TENTH FLOOR - NIGHT                         107

The full length mirror on the other side of the room

SHATTERS.  Batty's next to him, grabs Deckard's hand

and steps in closer.

They're face to face.

In an exaggeration of weary disappointment, Batty drops

his head to the side.

Deckard stares back at him, but doesn't respond.  Sud-

denly fury storms through Batty.  He throws Deckard out

the door, knocking him down, grabs him by the collar

and rams his head into the wall.

INT. TENTH FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT                       108

He drags him down the hall, on his knees and bangs his

head into the wall again.

He yanks him further and bashes his head again.

The storm passes.

Deckard hangs in Batty's hand like a bag of laundry.

He drops him.

Betty walks off and disappears through one of the doors.

Deckard gets to his knees, leans against the wall a mo-

ment, then punches it with his fist.

On his feet he's a little wobbly.  Holding his breath

so he can hear above his own breathing, he listens.  No

sound.  No sign of Batty.  The laser is laying nearby.

He doesn't bother.

Deckard is backing down the hall, quiet as he can.  He

had a job to do.  He would like to have done it, but

he's not insane.  He gets to the landing and turns.

On the first step down, he stops.  Batty's on the land-

ing below, looking up at him.

He wait a moment for Deckard's answer.

Deckard turns back into the hall.  Batty smiles.

Deckard's running down the corridor.

Halfway down the hall he finds his laser.

Deckard darts into the nearest door.  The apartment

above Sebastian's, with the hole in the floor.  Deckard

considers it.

Deckard dashes back into the hall, chooses another door

and goes in.

INT. TENTH FLOOR APARTMENT - NIGHT                      109

His eyes skim over everything, looking for an advantage.

He throws open a door.  The bathroom.  The plumbing is

dismantled, walls stripped, revealing brick, nails

protruding.  Too small.

INT. TENTH FLOOR STAIRWELL - NIGHT                      110

Batty's coming up the steps.

INT. TENTH FLOOR APARTMENT - NIGHT                      111

Deckard's looking for a corner -- a place that covers

the angles.  He chooses the far side of the room with

a line to the door.

INT. TENTH FLOOR HALL - NIGHT                           112

Batty's coming down the center, listening at the doors.

INT. TENTH FLOOR APARTMENT - NIGHT                      113

Deckard's crouched in the corner and aimed.  He looks at

his hand.  It's trembling.

INT. TENTH FLOOR HALL - NIGHT                           114

Batty's standing in front of a door, listening.

He goes to the next door.

Batty moves to the next.  The door to Deckard.

INT. TENTH FLOOR APARTMENT - NIGHT                      115

Deckard's crouched lower, holding his breath -- talk

about a hair trigger... Silence.  Batty's FEET are heard

CREAKING AWAY.  Deckard looks around.  Runs a hand over

the wall behind him.  Batty's FEET COME BACK.  A pause.

The door explodes!

A shape hurtles across the room.  Deckard pivots, fol-

lowing it with RAPID FIRE.  It's a TV.  He spins back.

but Batty's already on him.  He gets one SHOT off be-

fore Batty's got his hand.  There's a hole over Batty's

right eye.  Blood running down his face, dripping on

Deckard.  The right side of his face isn't working too

good.  The corner of his mouth doesn't quite shut --

his voice comes out slurred, a little hollow.

The would doesn't minimize his omnipotence, just makes

it more malignant.  He throws Deckard against the far

wall.  Deckard FIRES.  Hits Batty in the shoulder.

He comes at Deckard, jerking back and forth, a cobra in

fast motion, faking, weaving, yelping with excitement

as Deckard tries to get a shot, FIRING AWAY until his

laser's empty.  Bloody and crazed, Batty pushes up

against him.

INT. TENTH FLOOR HALL - NIGHT                           116

He's backing Deckard out the door.  Deckard trips and

falls.  There's fear on his face.  The strength is gone.

Something is starting to crack.

Deckard's pedaling backwards over the floor.

Deckard throws the laser at him.  It misses.  Batty

throws his head back and laughs.  A one-eyed colossus

about to eat the world.  Suddenly he stops.  His eye

moves over the wall.

He reaches out and pinches something.  His lips compress

as he yanks it out of the wall.  It's a ten-penny nail.

He holds it out to Deckard and drops it.  Deckard

catches it.

One side of Batty's face smiles savagely.

Deckard stares at the nail in his hand, then up at

his executioner.

Batty watches him, hoping the stimulus might inspire

his victim to more action.  It doesn't look like it.

Deckard springs to his feet and bolts.  But instead of

going for the stairwell he turns in the first available

door.

INT. TENTH FLOOR APARTMENT #2 - NIGHT                   117

Provocation accomplished. Batty smiles and walks lei-

surely towards the door.  Deckard's terrified scream

and the SOUND of GLASS CRASHING stop him.  Batty speeds

up and moves into the room.

The window pane is splattered, curtains sucked out,

bellowing in the wind.

He walks up to the window.  Deckard comes away from the

wall, inching up behind him, laser in both hands, aimed

at the base of Batty's skull.  Batty starts to lean

over, but even before his eyes see the pavement, he

knows.  He spins...

Deckard FIRES again.  This one goes home.  Batty falls

like he was poleaxed, hits the floor dead weight.

Deckard starts to tremble.  His arms go limp as his

head tilts back and he closes his eyes.  He can breathe

again.

On the floor, Batty's hand is crawling toward Deckard's

ankle.

With the unsuspected abruptness of a man slipping on a

banana peel, Deckard comes down.  Face knotted in hor-

ror, he EMPTIES THE LASER in Batty's body -- but the

hand holds on.  With a screech of frustration he drops

the laser and like an animal claws at Batty's dead

fingers -- but the fingers are welded shut.

Deckard starts to crawl, pulling Batty behind him.  He

struggled through the door and stumbles to his feet.

INT. TENTH FLOOR HALL - NIGHT                           118

Deckard plunges down the corridor dragging Batty along.

He falls, gets to one foot, falls again and crawls the

last couple feet to the stairwell.

INT. TENTH FLOOR STAIRWELL - NIGHT                      119

Groaning, he tugs and pulls, hauls and heaves Batty's

body to the edge of the landing.  He pauses for breath,

then lays back, wedging his feet against Batty's shoul-

ders and pushes.  Inch by inch the body goes over the

edge.  Then all at once it drops.  But the hand holds

and the weight of the body takes Deckard with it.  As

Deckard slides over the edge, he grabs hold of the

railing.

Deckard's hanging three hundred feet over the basement

floor, supporting himself and Batty's corpse -- almost

four hundred pounds of stress on his fingers.

With his free foot he chops away at Batty's hand, try-

ing to break it loose.  But it's not working.  Deckard's

fingers are starting to slip.

His face is a mask of agony as he wedges his heel over

Batty's thumb.  With the help of gravity and everything

he's got in his right leg to push with, he pushes.  The

thumb breaks loose.  Batty falls.

The SOUND OF HIS BODY HITTING BELOW sounds good, but

Deckard doesn't notice.  He's in an awkward position.

He must reverse the way he's facing to pull himself up.

He lets go with his right hand and crosses it over the

left.  Then turns the left around so he's got an over-

hand grip.

Like a man doing his last pull-up... the one that can't

be done, Deckard pulls himself up, throws a foot over

the edge and grapples and heaves and wiggled himself

onto the cold solid steel of the stairwell landing.

And lies there, body jerking spasmodically, slowly

clenching and unclenching his cramped hand, but it's

his burning cheek against the cool metal he's most aware

of.

Dizzy, hot, lungs on fire, he stands -- and putting one

foot in front of the other, Deckard descends the stairs.

EXT. SEBASTIAN'S BUILDING - DAWN                        120

Slowly the door pushes open and Deckard comes out into

the morning.  The sun isn't yet risen, but the sky has

begun to pale.  It's a brooding gray stew of a dawn not

very pretty, but even though he can't show it, Deckard

is glad to see it.

For a moment he tilts his head back and takes some

breath, then walks across the courtyard towards the

street, so dead on his feet he hasn't the energy to

fall.

Deckard slumps into the shelter of his car.  The col-

lapses on the front seat.

INT. DECKARD'S BEDROOM - DAWN                           121

In a corner of the dimness Deckard sits slumped on a

chair, facing the pearly gray light of the window.  The

only SOUND in the room is the soft steady BREATHING

that comes from the bed.

Quietly he gets up and walks over to her.  Rachael lies

sleeping, one delicate arm exposed from under the sheet.

Deckard stands there, bettered and grim, staring down

at her.

Moments go by and finally he sits gently on the edge of

the bed.

Rachael opens her eyes, and looks up at him, she smiles.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE (MONTAGE) - DAY                        122

Deckard's car is skimming over the narrow highway.  He

and Rachael in the front seat.  Except for the occasion-

al glance, their faces are still and quiet in the cold

shine of an icy dream.

The clouds overhead are soft and swift.

Rachael's face in the window watching the woods stream

by.

EXT. WOODS (MONTAGE) - DAY                              123

Deckard and Rachael walking.  The land lays white and

hushed before them.

Down an aisle of maples and beeches.  The frosty light

slanting through the clean, hard limbs.

The crisp, blue-white snow underfoot melted through in

spots exposing soggy patches of rich brown earth.

Rachael stops and faces him.  Her lips are parted, her

warm breath turning the cold air to vapor.  Looking

lithe and fragile by these barren-rooted trees, she

stands in the crisp white snow looking at Deckard.

Nothing in her retreats, even now her eyes insist on

knowing.

EXT. WOODS - DAY                                        124

Deckard walking over the snow.  Alone.  He walks slowly,

mechanically through the cold, unaffected by it.  His

gaunt face, empty of expression except for the tears

running down his pale cheeks.

But for the SQUEAK of his wet shoes over the crusted

snow, there is no sound.  And Deckard recedes into the

silence of the freezing white landscape.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT                                    125

Deckard's car, solid, THROBBING, GUNNING along like

some metal animal.  Headlights piercing the dark of the

long, flat road.  WHISTLING speed of air and tires spin-

ning THRUM.  And then silence.  And the silence

astounded by the CRACK OF A GUN.

INT. CAR - NIGHT                                        126

Deckard is behind the wheel, face in shadow, eyes star-

ing straight ahead.

And the ruby lights of Deckard's car disappear into

the darkness.

