A beautiful golden sun is setting. The sky is on fire. The

CAMERA starts to move downwards. A large neon sign rises

into shot. It rests on top of a skyscraper and fills the

frame. The building is neither past nor future in design

but a bit of both.

Slowly we pan downwards revealing the city that spreads

below ... A glittering conglomeration of elevated

transport tubes, smaller square buildings which are merely

huge, with, here and there, the comparatively minuscule

relics of previous ages of architecture, pavement level

awnings suggesting restaurants and shops ... Transparent

tubes carry whizzing transport cages past us ... an

elevated highway carrying traffic composed primarily of

large transport lorries passes thru frame. As we descend,

the sunlight is blocked out and street lights & neon signs

take over as illumination. Eventually we reach the upper

levels of a plush shopping precinct.

Xmas decorations are everywhere. PEOPLE are busy buying,

ogling, discussing, choosing wisely from the goodies on

display. SHOPPERS are going by laden with superbly

packaged goods ... the shop windows are full of

elaborately boxed and be-ribboned who-knows-what. In one

window is a bank of TV sets - on the great majority of the

screens is the face of MR. HELPMANN - the Deputy Minister

of Information. He is being interviewed. No-one bothers to

listen to HELPMANN.

We PULL AWAY from the shop to concentrate on the shoppers.

HELPMANN's voice carries over the rest of the scene.

Fur bedecked shoppers pass in front of what appears to be

banks of snow but as we pan along with them the "snow"

turns out to be fire-fighting foam. It oozes out of a shop

front that is a charred twisted mass of metal frames.

WORKMEN are busily sealing the opening with plywood

sheets, SHOPPERS pay no attention to this. Xmas carols are

being played by a Salvation Army style band calling

themselves Consumers For Christ. Santa Claus's grotto is

busy, all is well with the world.

CUT TO TV screen with HELPMANN still talking.

PULL BACK to reveal a rather clinical office. The TV rests

on a desk. A WHITE COATED TECHNICIAN is sorting out his in-

tray. Several Christmas cards are amongst he paperwork. He

comes upon a Christmassy package which he rips open, to

discover a shiny, metal "executive toy".

CUT TO the BEETLE droning up near the ceiling.

The TECHNICIAN is disturbed by the buzz of the BEETLE as

it whirrs around the fluorescent light. He rolls up some

paper and forms and gets up to swat the insect.

The TECHNICIAN gets up and balances a chair on top of his

desk. He climbs up onto it attempting to swat the BEETLE

still buzzing about the room just out of reach. Beneath

him an automatic type-writing machine rattles away

compiling a typed list of names under the heading

"Information Retrieval, Subjects For Detention &

Interview". The machine is being fed from a spool of paper

which is being rhythmically chopped by an automatic

guillotine which neatly leaves each name on a separate

sheet, with the title above each name, each sheet

following its predecessor into a holding basket. In CLOSE-

UP we see the names on the sheets of paper building up in

the holding basket: TONSTED, Simon ... TOPPER, Martin F.

... TROLLOPE, Benjamin G. ... TURB, William K. ... TURNER,

John D. ... Every name begins with T.

The TECHNICIAN is tottering on one leg on the chair on the

desk as he strains to swat the BEETLE. Swish, swash, oops,

WHAP! Gottcha!!

The BEETLE's career comes to a halt ... squashed flat on

the brilliantly clean ceiling ... or has it? As the

TECHNICIAN clambers down from the rickety heights, the

BEETLE's carcass comes unstuck from the ceiling and drops

silently into the typewriting machine which hiccoughs,

hesitates and then types the letter "B" and hesitates and

then continues so that the next name is BUTTLE, Archibald.

The TECHNICIAN fails to notice this and the machine

continues smoothly TUTWOOD, Thomas T. ... TUZCZLOW,

Peter...

ZOOMING past foreground outdoor Xmas decorations we

TIGHTEN in on one of several massive residential tower

blocks that loom over what appears to be a poorer part of

the city

HELPMANN and INTERVIEWER are on the TV, the end credits

rolling over them to the beat of a Mozart theme tune.

PULLING BACK we reveal that the TV is in a conventional

sitting room, conventionally decorated for Christmas; out

the room is oddly encumbered by huge metal conduits that

snake unpleasantly across and through the walls. Smaller

conduits radiate from the main one connecting the various

services that Central Services (the name emblazoned on the

metal) supply to this household. A conventionally poor but

proud family occupies the room. MRS BUTTLE is reading

Dickens' Christmas Carol to GIRL BUTTLE who is about six.

BOY BUTTLE plays quietly with a toy machine gun and some

action men dressed in security gear. MR. BUTTLE is putting

the final touches to a neatly wrapped Christmas present

which looks identical to the "executive toy" we have just

seen in he TECHNICIAN'S office.

Faintly from outside comes a burst of laughter. A tilt of

the CAMERA indicates that the laughter is coming from the

floor above.

The flat is very bare and basic. The laughter is coming

from a cheap portable television showing "Sgt. Bilko. From

BILKO'S POV we look through an open door of a bathroom

straight at a mirror propped up by the bath, to enable the

person in the bath to watch the TV. The person in the bath

is JILL LAYTON, washing the grime off herself while she

watches Bilko in the mirror. From her POV in the mirror,

the T.V. screen is suddenly obscured by part of the body

of a MAN in uniform.

The BUTTLE FAMILY as before. MRS BUTTLE is closing the

book.

The GIRL exchanges goodnight kisses with her parents and

leaves the room.

We follow GIRL BUTTLE out of the sitting room into ...

GIRL BUTTLE enters her bedroom. There is little or no

light there, and she sees a bulky figure apparently

lowering himself into the room from the direction of the

ceiling.

As she moves, the light from the hallway shows us the

figure of what looks like a commando on a night raid,

slowly sliding down a pole in he middle of the room. The

pole at the top end disappears through a hole in the

ceiling. Things become immediately clearer

Crash! It's a raid! Battle-dressed SECURITY TROOPS smash

trough the door. Another ONE, swings from a rope, kicks in

the window from the outside and enters that way. Most

alarmingly of all, a shower of plaster comes down from the

ceiling in which a fairly neat round hole appears and

through the hole comes a fireman's pole down which slide

TWO MORE SECURITY TROOPS. The whole thing is short, brutal

and violent.

BUTTLE is grabbed violently and stuffed into a baglike

canvas device that covers him from head to waist. A metal

clamp goes round his neck, a metal bar slides up the back

of the bag. His hands are handcuffed to the metal bar. In

seconds he has become a canvas parcel. Meanwhile, GIRL

BUTTLE has been carried out of her bedroom and dumped into

the lap of her screaming mother. BOY BUTTLE has his toy

machine gun knocked out of his hands by a TROOPER who we

see is identical in dress to the action men BOY BUTTLE has

been playing with. He rushes to his mother as guns are

viciously trained on them. TROOPS are kicking open the

doors of other rooms and generally doing a good job. An

OFFICIAL, wearing plain clothes, now enters from the front

door and during the turmoil is reading aloud from an

official document. It goes something like this:

... and more of the same, most of which is part of the

audible wall paper while the chaos reigns. As the front

door slams behind the captive relative peace returns,

broken by MRS BUTTLE's anguished sobbing.

JILL's shocked face appears looking down through the hole

in the ceiling. The faces of the workmen BILL and CHARLIE

also appear, above and behind her.

The helmeted SECURITY TROOPS in Buttle's flat drop to

defensive positions and swing their machine guns up

towards the hole in the ceiling. All three faces retreat.

JILL, CHARLIE and BILL are hustled aside by a SECURITY MAN

who clears the fireman's pole from the hole. We can see

the TROOPS in the room below leaving. A SECOND SECURITY

man has untied a rope hanging out of the open window. He

coils the rope up neatly and the TWO SECURITY MEN leave

the flat.

So saying, he drops the manhole cover, which is faced with

same material as the floor, over the hole in the floor. To

his surprise it drops neatly through the floor into the

flat below.

MRS BUTTLE stands stunned in the middle of her decimated

flat. The KIDS wail. Slowly MRS BUTTLE collapses -

slumping to the floor with the receipt in her hand: we

tighten into CLOSE UP of "Receipt".

We come in on a CLOSE UP of a pink version of the RECEIPT

being stamped and impaled on desk spike as we PULL OUT to

reveal an infinite expanse of regularly arranged metal

desks, each desk with a built-in T.V. console, and each

(except one) occupied by a CLERK. Every desk is snowed

under with pieces of paper much like the receipts seen in

the previous scene. More pacers are delivered to each desk

intermittently by way of pneumatic tube. OFFICE BOYS

bustle about with even more paperwork. From the back of

the room we get a view of the screens which show graphs,

tabulations, figures ... All of this activity is

supervised from an elevated walkway by MR KURTZMAN.

Satisfied that all is well with his clerks he turns and

walks towards his glass enclosed private office at the top

of the room, his name lettered on the opaque glass door.

MR KURTZMAN goes through this door and as he closes it

behind him, all activity in the CLERKS pool ceases. each

CLERK adjusts his T.V. screen with the flick of a switch,

and all the screens change to something which looks very

like "The Good, The Bad And The Ugly".

MR KURTZMAN also has a T.V. console. He sits behind his

desk, reaches for his In-tray, and without looking at the

console he turns his screen on. He looks through a number

of files in his In-tray. He is surprised to hear a VOICE

say, "Turn around real slow, amigo". MR KURTZMAN turns

around real slow, his expression relaxes, he thumps his

T.V. console with a large fist, and the screen obediently

flicks to a display of figures. He picks up a file which

we see as marked "Buttle, Archibald". He opens the file

and starts punching the keyboard of the console. The T.V.

starts bleeping in an alarmed way. MR KURTZMAN is puzzled.

He punches more figures. The screen starts to flash

"Error, error, error". MR KURTZMAN sighs with frustration.

He presses an intercom.

He returns his attention, puzzled to the file. Nobody

comes into the office. MR KURTZMAN gets up and walks over

to his door and opens it. Beyond the door the room full of

CLERKS is obediently concentrating on the bleeping and

whirring consoles. From MR KURTZMAN'S POV we see that in

the centre of the room is an unoccupied desk.

Nobody knows. MR KURTZMAN closes his door again. A moment

later it seems to him, and to us, that he has heard the

crash of six guns blazing away at each other. He re-opens

the door. The only sound again. He goes back to his desk.

He punches a few keys. The machine starts emitting even

more alarming beeps, then horse whinnies, then "Admit

you're whupped, you drygulching scum". KURTZMAN explodes

with anger, and presses the intercom again.

CUT TO brilliantly clear sky. From on high an odd bird-

like figure swoops down on the CAMERA. As it comes closer

we can see that it is, in fact, a MAN wearing strange wood

and metal bird wings. In the bright sunshine their

flapping movements create a brilliant, flashing effect.

Along with the wings, SAM LOWRY (for this is he) wears an

outfit that combines the best of Flash Gordon and a WWI

fighter pilot. He sweeps past the CAMERA and then,

banking, rises BACK INTO SHOT IN MCU. An ethereal voice

can be heard calling "Sam ... Sam ... Sam". He hovers,

looking beyond the CAMERA to something wonderful. CUT TO

face of stunningly beautiful GIRL, she is the idealised

twin of JILL LAYTON ... Her long hair swirls across her

face partially obscuring it and making her appear slightly

mysterious. The CAMERA PULLS AWAY from her as soft

billowing material sinuously undulates about her. It rises

and falls like waves carried on the wind. As the CAMERA

GLIDES BACK through this sea of gossamer we can see that

the GIRL is being held aloft by and in it. A vast

landscape stretches below her. The sun frames her in the

sky. She and SAM are engaged in a beautiful sensual aerial

ballet.

Romantic music fills the soundtrack.

SAM swoops up and away. The GIRL floats in the distance as

SAM. rises in the foreground. She beckons to him. SAM

begins to flap back towards her. But then the dreamy

quality of this scene is interrupted by threatening

rumble. SAM looks down.

The ground far below him suddenly erupts as a massive,

monolithic stone skyscraper bursts through the surface and

soars upwards with a mighty rush.

CUT to the GIRL in LONG SHOT. The monolith rises up into

FRAME partially cutting her off from view.

Before SAM can do anything, another stone skyscraper

breaks through the ground and rushes upwards. Then another

and another. There is nothing SAM can do. The GIRL is

being cut of from him by these gigantic faceless

structures. And then she is finally lost from view

somewhere in the depths of this strange stone metropolis.

SAM lies closer. The stone skyscrapers appear to be solid.

No windows. No doors. Nothing whatsoever to interfere with

their clean, harsh, rectilinear design. As he flies among

these towering blocks he sees no sign of the GIRL, only

sheer walls rising high above him. Below him the walls

plummet vertiginously into the darkish streets. No sound

but the creaking flapping of his wings can he heard in

this dead place. Coming round a corner he sees something

in the distance. far below him a dark procession is

wending its way through the narrow passages... away from

him.

CUT TO LOW ANGLE SHOT of the procession making its way

past the CAMERA. Black-robed and cowled, the sinister

figures look like heavily armed monks. These are the

FORCES OF DARKNESS. Together they are straining at several

heavy hawsers that rise in long arcs up to a huge metal

cage floating above and behind the procession. Binding the

cage are metal straps to which ropes are attached. Inside

is the GIRL - still enveloped in gossamer which billows as

if there were a breeze in constant attendance.

CUT TO SAM as He dives out of shot.

CUT to the FORCES OF DARKNESS suddenly stopping in their

tracks. They've seen something.

CUT to their POV. There at the end of the passage between

two stone skyscrapers stands SAM ... barring the way.

CUT to swords being unsheathed. Cowls being thrown back.

Underneath are rotting, broken dolls' faces. All the faces

are the same except for the manner in which they have

decayed. They smile - slobbering, sickeningly. Suddenly

the robed bodies change shape - some rising up to become

long, others expanding sideways to become bulbous, others

shrinking. From the folds of cloth come evil weapons. The

FORCES are massed ready to charge.

CUT to long shot of SAM. He removes his arms from his

wings and folds the wings behind him. He is ready.

Cut to the FORCES. Nothing moves ... except for the

constant dribble from their cracked mouths.

CUT back to SAM. Stillness. The tension is unbearable.

Suddenly SAM unleashes a terrifying scream and charges the

fearsome horde. Unarmed!

CUT to the FORCES thundering down to SAM. Weapons flailing

madly.

SAM skillfully dodges the swordthrust of the leading

field, and karate chops him senseless - at the same time

catching his sword as he falls. Spinning around he parries

a spearthrust and skewers a third attacker. Slash! Hack!

Stab! He lays waste to the FORCES. Nothing can stop this

boy. The pile of black-robed bodies grows with each swing

of SAM's sword. Wham! Bam! Smash! SAM carves his way

through the mob with nary a scratch. And then, suddenly,

they are all dead, but a heap of blackness to commemorate

SAM's prowess. The GIRL is beaming as SAM makes his way

toward the hawsers holding the cage. But then a noise

behind him makes him turn. There, behind him the pile of

black shapes begin to rise. The ropes become a mass of

flapping black cloth. This evil churning cloud coalesces

and lifts off the ground. The horrible flapping apparition

emits a terrifying maniacal laughter as it flies away. SAM

is about to rush after it to halt its escape but is

stopped by the sound of a telephone ringing. He looks

around - confused.

TIGHT SHOT of telephone. The ringing continues. A hand

grapples with the receiver. SAM is in bed in a darkened

room. Sleepily he drags receiver to his ear.

There is an electronic box of tricks by his bed,

incorporating an alarm. SAM thumps it. The alarm goes off.

This sets of a series of other things ... The window

shutters roll up letting in the morning light. Both taps

turn on in the bathroom ...

SAM puts down the phone and gets into his suit which is

moving towards him. Noticing one of his film posters is

loose he pushes the pin in firmly.

In the kitchen a coffee maker starts up. In the sitting

room the television switches on. Back in the bedroom a

cupboard door springs open and a rack slides out with

SAM's clothes neatly hanging - ready to be put on. SAM

comes out of the bathroom, having turned off the bath

taps, and starts to get dressed. In the kitchen the coffee-

maker has finished making s small pot of coffee. SAM pours

a quick cup and is gone at the door. Throughout all this

we have had a chance to get a glimpse of SAM's flat. It is

functional, soulless and, though neat, has not been

assembled with a loving hand. Most of the furnishings are

built in. The walls are divided into two-foot square metal

panels painted a non-committal colour. Certain of the wall

panels have Central Services logos on them with the

admonition "Do not obstruct or remove" below. SAM has

livened his bedroom up with large and colorful film

posters. The sitting room sports several framed pictures

of wide beautiful vistas.

This is a gigantic, vaguely 30's monumental-style

building. The lobby is a vast impressive space containing

reception desks, fountains, statues etc. Prominent are the

security measures, which include automatic mobile cameras,

video screens and groups of SECURITY MEN who search all

who enter. SAM is finishing going through Security when he

meets JACK who is on his way out of the building.

As they have been talking, a nearby bank of closed circuit

TV screens has been displaying shots of people entering

the lobby. As each one enters the CAMERA ZOOMS IN TIGHT on

their faces for a frozen CLOSE-UP. JILL has just entered

and the CAMERA ZOOMS IN and freezes on her face. SAM

happens to glance up at this moment. He is startled - the

over-exposed TV image is the face of the GIRL FROM THE

DREAM. The face is only there a few seconds before being

replaced by another picture. SAM looks about to see where

the GIRL is, but JILL, in overalls, has her back to him as

she stands in the queue for the Information desk and so

there is no-one even vaguely reminiscent of the DREAM

GIRL. SAM decides he must have imagined it. Over this JACK

has been talking.

As SAM heads off to the lift, he passes a group of MEN

standing around a temporary TV monitor. Several of them

are dressed in white lab coats. They are being explained

the benefits of a new surveillance system by a salesman

type. His assistant is operating the controls. On the

monitor we can see JILL standing in the queue for the

Information desk. The CAMERA appears to he tracking in on

her.

CUT TO JILL at top of queue with several forms in her

hand. A strange prototype radio controlled camera on a

wheeled base is whirring and clicking as it approaches

her. Throughout the next sequence it pokes around JILL in

an annoying manner - thrusting itself at her face, trying

to see what is written on the forms, peering over her

shoulder. JILL hands a form to the Information Porter.

The radio-controlled camera noses right up to JILL's face

as she turns. She swats the annoying thing with her stack

of forms as she storms off. The camera overbalances and

crashes into the desk - sparking and spluttering.

CUTTING BACK to the GROUP around the monitor we see a

deeply hurt SALESMAN and several sceptical white-coated

TECHNICIANS.

SAM is busily working at the console, unraveling a problem

while KURTZMAN looks on anxiously and ineffectually.

SAM is still punching keys.

KURTZMAN hands SAM a sheet of printed paper. SAM takes the

paper, not pleased, and glances at it.

CLOSE UP of paper: "LOWRY, S. (RECORDS. MIN OF INF.)

TRANSFER TO INFORMATION RETRIEVAL - (Expediting, Security

Level 3).

CUT TO an old WOMAN's face reflected in triplicate in a

three-panelled mirror. A pair of MAN's hands have a grip

on her flabby cheeks, pulling them out several inches on

either side of her face. When I say several inches that's

just what I mean. Not only are her jowls being stretched

like silly putty but they are also being wrapped around to

the back of her neck to demonstrate how tight and smooth

her face can be made by DOCTOR who is prattling on over

this freak show.

CUT TO WIDE SHOT of DOCTOR's surgery. It looks a bit like

a cross between an operating theatre and a boudoir. The

cold steel, glass and plastic surfaces are badly disguised

with pastel coloured chintz and satin. At the dressing

table sits the old WOMAN, SAM'S MOTHER. Behind her stands

the DOCTOR. He is much like his surgery. He has tailored

his surgical garments like a gigolo's dressing gown. It

seems that he has done a bit of tuck-taking on himself.

There is a certain plastic smoothness to his skin, but all

in all he has been fairly successful. SAM is pacing

around, raving.

The DOCTOR reaches into his smock pocket for a coloured

marker. He starts colouring up her face with strokes of

different coloured markers.

SAM looks disgusted.

The DOCTOR moves his body aside, revealing MRS LOWRY's

face, covered with coloured lines and wrapped in

cellophane held in shape by cellotape. SAM stares at her.

The conversation between SAM and his MOTHER takes place

while they are going through the sort of security checks

familiar at airports. They are, however, just outside the

velvet rope of the posh restaurant.

A warning buzzer goes off as MOTHER's handbag goes thru

security check. It turns out to have been activated by a

gaily wrapped package. A SECURITY GUARD relieves her of it

and unwraps the package which contains the same kind of

executive toy which we have seen twice before.

She takes the toy back and hands it to SAM.

At this point the MAITRE D arrives on the scene.

He pulls aside he velvet rope with a grand flourish. He

looks disdainfully at SAM's unfashionable clerk's suite

SPIRO leads the way. SAM and his MOTHER follow, across the

restaurant which is much like the Palm Court at the Plaza

New York. Trellises, marble columns, antique mirroring,

potted palms combine to impress us with their

sophistication and taste. A string quartet can just be

made out against the far wall. Except for the unfortunate

intrusion of metal tubing and ducting brutally thrusting

across areas of the ceiling, occasionally penetrating

right through the middle of a particularly valuable-

looking mirror, the general effect is one of confident

wealth and breeding. SAM, MOTHER and MAITRE D make their

way across the room. The waltzing strains of the string

quartet accompanying them.

CUT to group of tables with diners. At one of them sits a

wealthy-looking OLDER WOMAN with a rather plain-looking

DAUGHTER in her 20s. The OLDER WOMAN is easily

distinguished from the other clientele by a large bandage

that covers a goodish part of her head. The two of them

(the MOTHER and DAUGHTER, not the MOTHER and bandage) are

perusing the menus. SAM notes the DAUGHTER, unpleased.

SAM and his MOTHER arrive at the table.

She hands SAM a gaily wrapped package which obviously

contains the same executive toy.

She starts to hunt through the huge menu the MAITRE D has

just handed her with full colour photos of the splendid

dishes available.

EVERYONE is a bit embarrassed here. MOTHER gives SAM a

withering look. SPIRO stalks away.

At this moment the food arrives. SPIRO elaborately lifts

off the silver covers and with a flourish distributes the

plates of food. Each order looks identical - a big splodge

of brown lumpy stuff. The only differences between the

lumps are the Identifying photographs on sticks stuck in

each. The beautiful colour photos match the photos which

were on the menus.

They are just about to dip into their respective splodges

when there is a terrific explosion - a huge hole is

blasted out of the wall to the kitchen. Chaos erupts

around the carnage as WAITERS try putting out the flames

with extinguishers. PEOPLE, bloody and dying, are moaning.

The DINERS not actually affected by the blast look up for

a moment and then, with a few raised eyebrows, go back to

their meals.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE EXPLOSION.

SAM, in the act of taking in another forkful of his

unappetising meal, drops his form in disgust

MOTHER raises her arm to gain the attention of the MAITRE

D who is frantically trying to deal with the emergency.

The activity in the background has increased throughout

the conversation. The fire-brigade has arrived with sirens

blaring. Ministry TROOPS have charged in and are arresting

WAITERS. Stretchers have been bought in for the injured

and these are being rushed past our little GROUP's table.

The MAITRE D comes to the table, his DJ now blood-

spattered.

He hurries away.

EVERYBODY is shocked. He recovers his composure slightly.

Embarrassed, he bends, and picks up the ball of paper

which he starts smoothing back into Its flat state.

As SAM goes, MAITRE D reappears with a group of WAITERS -

those remaining unarrested - whom he has organised to gut

up a folding screen around the table. This cuts of the

sight if not the noise of the VICTIMS of the explosion.

Their voices have been rising towards a shout in order to

rise above the volume of the growing chaos around them.

SAM as his dream-self rises INTO SHOT, his wings straining

as he tows the floating cage imprisoning the GIRL. They

are rising up and away from the monolithic stone

skyscrapers that stretch away below them.

An eyeball is scanning the sky. PULLING BACK we see it is

but one of thousands, tightly packed side by side forming

a landscape that extends as far as we can see. As SAM and

the GIRL in her cage come into view it becomes apparent

just how big these eyeballs are - they are gigantic -

about 10 feet in diameter. All of them follow SAM as he

comes to rest on a platform high atop a column that rises

from the centre of this bizarre place.

He anchors the hawser holding the cage and takes off his

wings. Just as he starts climbing up to the cage a

terrific cracking noise is heard. SAM freezes.

A dead straight crack is bisecting the sky from somewhere

beyond the horizon - running right up the sky and over the

camera. SAM follows it as it continues over the GIRL and

down to the opposite horizon. Another crackling noise is

heard. Another crack appears. Then another. And another.

All these cracks are emanating from a vanishing point over

the horizon. Soon the sky is covered with these cracks

from horizon to foreground. Then cracks begin appearing at

right angles to them. Very quickly the sky is covered with

a mammoth grid. Once it is complete, another noise is

heard. Something like massive blocks of stone sliding

against one another. One of the squares formed by the grid

pattern begins to slide upwards as if being pulled out

from the back side of the sky. A square hole is left in

its place. We can see the sides of the hole as it extends

upwards into blackness. As soon as this first block of sky

is withdrawn, another begins to slide up and away. SAM is

frozen in position as this terrifying spectacle goes on

above him. The eyeballs are madly looking this way and

that. The grinding noises are deafening as block after

block of sky is removed. With each successive loss the

light decreases. The GIRL is crying out for SAM to save

her. Frantically SAM tries to haul the cage down to the

platform but it's too late.

Where the sky was is now pitch black. Only one block of

sky remains. Slowly that final bit of sky is pulled up and

out of shot. Total blackness. A maniacal laughter can be

heard. A beam of light is switched on. SAM has a

searchlight in his hand and is searching the darkness. The

laughter continues. Suddenly the beam catches something

black and moving. it's the same black, flapping cloth that

appeared at the end of the previous dream. The horrible

flapping thing comes thundering down on SAM.

He is engulfed in the black awfulness.

SAM is in bed, grappling with the bedclothes. He is

dripping with sweat and screaming. The room is

oppressively hot. He gets up and looks at the thermostat.

It reads 99. He fumbles with it, but to no avail. It's

stuck.

CUT to SAM coming into the sitting room. He rushes over to

the window and tries to open it. But it wasn't designed to

be opened. Screws hold it firmly shut. SAM heads to the

kitchen He finds a knife which he uses to unscrew the

window. He swings the window open and takes a deep breath.

GAG! COUGH! HACK! A terrible greeny-brown smog pours in

through the window. Desperately SAM shuts the window and

madly tightens up the screws. Swinging a newspaper, he

tries clearing a path through the clouded atmosphere. He

makes it to the front door and staggers out into the hall

gasping for air.

CUT to telephone being lifted from its cradle. Pull back

as SAM with opened telephone directory in front of him

dials. He is seated in his kitchen. In front of his open

refrigerator. The phone rings at the other end.

SAM slams the phone down.

CUT to SAM sitting in front of the refrigerator. The door

is open and he has wedged a chair into the gap in a

desperate bid to keep cool. He is nodding off. As his head

slumps against one of the shelves, a jar of pickled onions

falls to the floor. The onions scattering everywhere.

The milky white spheres tumble everywhere. But they are

not onions, they are the giant eyeballs burtling through

space. SAM is clinging desperately to one. He grabs the

pupil for a better handhold and it opens like a hatch

cover. SAM manages to pull himself inside. Once out of the

intergalactic maelstrom, SAM turns to survey the cramped

and dark space inside the eyeball. It seems to be bisected

by a dividing wall, from which a thin sliver of light is

escaping. Pushing on the wall in the area of the slit, SAM

is able to move a section. More light shaftes into the

tiny space from around the edges of what appears to be a

small hatch. SAM scrunches down and really puts his

shoulder to the hatch. with a metallic rasp it gives way

and SAM crashes through.

CUT to other side of opening as SAM topples through. He

catches himself in the nick of time as the camera zooms

back revealing his close call with disaster. He is high on

a vast wall of what looks like filing cabinets. The hatch

he came through was the front of one of the millions of

files-drawers composing this wall. As he scrambles back

into the opening we can see that the wall drops away for

hundreds of feet, disappear into a steaming mist. Other

walls of files enclose this vast space. From where SAM is

it looks like the view from the 50th storey of the Time

Life building in NYC. These millions of files are being

tended by MEN arising themselves up and down, as well as

sideways, on modern skyscraper window-cleaners' platforms.

The attendants are seen putting PEOPLE in different period

costumes into drawers. SAM's attention is distracted by a

sound overhead. Looking up he sees a window washer

platform being lowered in his direction. Leaning over the

side is a JOLLY GENT, who happens to look like MR HELPMANN

(as seen on TV).

The platform carries them along the files.

The platform has stopped. The GENT pulls out a drawer. He

reaches inside.

The GENT pulls out a wonderful sword and helmet.

As SAM begins to strap on the weapon the GENT brings out a

cape.

He puts the cape around SAM's shoulders and helps him step

into the drawer. A moment's hesitation and then SAM outs

the helmet on and lies down in the drawer. It fits just

like a coffin.. As he lies back the GENT pushes the drawer

in.

As the drawer is pushed in SAM suffers a sudden bout of

claustrophobia. Looking up at the diministing opening he

is surprised to see - not the face of the JOLLY GENT - but

a terrifying SAMURAI WARRIOR's masked helmet. SAM

struggles to prevent the drawer being closed.

SAM is grabbing the walls of the fridge. Water from the

defrosted freezer compartment drips on his head. He wakes

up. Before he can really take in where he is the phone

rings. He staggers over to it.

A sound at the kitchen door turns SAM's head - and ours -

just in time to half see a quick blurred movement, but

then a rapid voice in his ear-piece brings his head back.

SAM realises that the voice is also in the room behind

him. He turns round and sees TUTTLE. TUTTLE is middle-

aged, a short tough figure dressed in dark clothes

suggesting a cross between a cat burglar and a night-raid

commando. In one hand he holds a gun pointed at SAM. The

other hand is holding a telephone receiver which TUTTLE is

in the act of placing in the large capacious bag at his

feet. SAM puts down his phone, and his hands up.

TUTTLE, keeping the gun on SAM, goes to different doors,

leaning backwards into bedroom, bathroom and closet.

TUTTLE suddenly relaxes and pockets his gun.

By now, BOTH are pouring with sweat.

TUTTLE heads across the room and swiftly begins to undo a

wall panel.

TUTTLE hands SAM the panel and plunges his arm into the

space behind it.

By now TUTTLE has managed to pull out some sections of

flexible ducting from the welter of mechanical offal

behind the removed panel. It is all very complicated and

greasy and it looks as though there is a lot more where

that came from. TUTTLE is amazingly neat and deft as he

works. A real pro. As he works he hums a wee tune ... yes

... BRAZIL!!

He pulls another gadget from his bag.

The door bell. TUTTLE grabs for his gun.

He goes out closing the immediate door and goes to the

front door which he opens. He is confronted by two

officious little men in boiler suits who are standing

outside his door. Their names are SPOOR and DOWSER. DOWSER

is SPOOR's echo.

They don't like that.

SAM tries to close the door but SPOOR prevents this.

He is pushed aside. SPOOR followed by DOWSER, heads for

the door behind which is MR TUTTLE. SAM is paralysed.

SPOOR approaches the door as if it is dangerous. He turns

the handle quietly and gives the door a little nudge. The

door begins to swing slowly open. SAM suddenly finds

inspiration.

SPOOR and DOWSER turn round as the door continues to swing

open. When the door is open, behind their backs TUTTLE is

seen holding his pistol in a two-handed grip, his knees

slightly bent. TUTTLE freezes like that, pointing his

pistol through the open door.

DOWSER looks very angry. Veins stand out on his forehead

and he goes into what looks like some sort of fit. SPOOR

knocks him to the ground.

DOWSER moans and begins to get back on his feet.

SAM turns back to TUTTLE who is coming forward pocketing

his gun.

TUTTLE returns to work, fitting in the new by-pass gadget

and tightening the nuts, and happily humming "BRAZIL".

TUTTLE finishes the job and throws his tools into the bag.

SAM goes to the front door, opens it and looks out.

TUTTLE slips out and heads off down the balcony corridor.

But TUTTLE merely undoes a pre-arranged rope and swings

Tarzan-like off the end of the balcony and across a multi-

story void to a neighboring block. SAM is amazed - not to

say - stunned.

SAM is at his desk among all the desks. Documents are

being delivered right, left and centre through the vacuum

tubes. All the CLERKS are busy. The screens are devoted to

their proper use. All this activity is explained by the

fact the MR KURTZMAN's door is wide open. At the next desk

is another CLERK much like SAM, his NEIGHBOUR.

KURTZMAN appears in his doorway.

We go with KURTZMAN as he closes the office door behind

him, we are now in ...

KURTZMAN is pacing anxiously. SAM walks into the office.

During the brief opening and closing of the door we just

manage to hear the piano player in "Casablanca" singing,

"... a kiss is just a kiss ...". KURTZMAN is too worried

to notice. He is holding a piece of paper gingerly as if

it were contagious. He waves it frantically as SAM enters.

He thrusts the piece of paper at Sam.

SAM sits down at the console and punches keys. He does

this very efficiently, muttering to himself and generally

demonstrating an expertise which obviously leaves KURTZMAN

way out of his depth, until -

SAM punches more keys.

SAM has been efficiently punching this in.

SAM rips off a print out, rapidly stuffs it and the cheque

into a cannister and then into a vacuum tube. A job well

done.

Unfortunately KURTZMAN's prayers are not answered and the.

vacuum tube returns almost immediately. SAM opens it up.

From the computer screen comes a voice "Play it again,

Sam" - SAM and KURTZMAN look at the screen. We get a quick

glimpse of Humphrey Bogart before the screen reverts to

numbers.

Under this tirade SAM has begun to hum "BRAZIL" - not

entirely sure what inspired him.

KURTZMAN is dumbfounded by the audacity of this.

SAM takes over. In no time at all he has battered away at

the keyboard, slammed a cannister into a vacuum tube and

received almost immediately a cannister containing a sheaf

of different coloured papers.

KURTZMAN scribbles it down for him.

KURTZMAN takes out his pen and tries to sign the papers

but his hand is giving him trouble.

SAM signs the cheque and receipts. A big CLOSE UP shows

that he is scribbling KURTZMAN's signature. SAM pockets

the papers and the pen.

CUT to SAM at the wheel of the little car, beetling along

in a seemingly endless, tube-like tunnel, menaced fore and

aft by huge buses, lorries and other carriers which

literally lift the little three-wheeler from the road

surface and shake it by the scruff of its tiny neck.

CUT to SAM in interior of the Messerschmidt. He is singing

along to an obscure arrangement of "BRAZIL".

CUT to exterior view of Messerschmidt still merrily

progressing in arterial tunnel. CUT to very tiny exit

sign: Exit 49.

CUT to SAM peering at sign.

CUT to Messerschmidt taking the exit just as a huge lorry

roars by.

Beautiful utopian block of high-rise flats gleam in the

sunlight. Pulling back we reveal it to be an architect's

model in a protective perspex case standing in the centre

of a decorative fountain that has long ceased to work -

graffiti and junk are now the only decorations. In the

background is the grim reality of the massive housing

tower. SAM's Messerschmidt is just puling up in the shadow

of the building which is grey, decrepid, vandalised. Huge

conduits, pipes, and tubing frame the scene. SAM gets out

of the car under the cool and none-too-friendly gaze of a

few LOCALS. Self-consciously, SAM looks around him, then

at the paper in his hand. A little group of KIDS sit

pitching pennies against a wall. SAM goes over to them.

But before he can finish, the smallest, tiny KID looks up.

SAM, uncomfortably, effs off.

He is watched, at some distance, imapassively by the

little GIRL BUTTTLE. As SAM enters the buildings one of

the kids gets out a can of something and approaches the

car. Another is fiddling, with a box of matches.

CUT to SAM hesitantly walking into the semi-derelict lobby

of the big block of flats. Graffiti, vandalism are in

evidence everywhere. He walks up to the lift. Pushes the

button. Nothing happens. He pushes again. This time the

lift door shudders and sparks. SAM tries to pull the doors

apart. They jam open with a three-inch gap between them -

still shuddering and grinding. In the sparking light, SAM

can make out an interior crammed with garbage, junk, old

furniture, dead cats. Yechhhh. Resignedly, he turns

towards the stairs.

CUT to SAM coming breathlessly out of the stairwell. On

the wall next to it is the number 37. Walking down the

corridor he looks at the number and starts to knock, but

then notices that the door is cracked open. SAM tries to

knock on the door, but it keeps edging open and he settles

for knocking on the door frame a bit feebly.

SAM stands not knowing what to do.

SAM pushes the door a bit more open gingerly and puts

about 65 per cent of his body into the hall of the flat.

CUT to SAM's POV of darkish hall.

CUT to SAM entering extremely tacky sitting-room shrouded

in half-darkness. This is the same flat from which the

FATHER was taken at the beginning of the film: the hole is

still in the ceiling. SAM becomes aware of a woman sitting

absolutely still at a small table by the only (still

broken) window in the room.

The WOMAN nods very slightly without looking at him.

SAM takes the cheque out of his pocket and puts it on the

table to tempt MRS BUTTLE into a flicker of interest but

she fails to notice it - or him for that matter. SAM

pushes the cheque a little way towards MRS BUTTLE but she

does not respond.

SAM looks around and sees the hole in the ceiling.

He gets nothing back.

MRS BUTTLE starts to cry.

SAM picks up the cheque and gives it to MRS BUTTLE

together with the receipts. MRS BUTTLE tears them up and

throws them in his face.

SAM looks around for an escape and sees a YOUNG BUTTLE

standing in the doorway. The BOY is looking at him with a

blank tearful face. Suddenly the BOY launches himself at

SAM with terrible ferocity. SAM is knocked against the

wall. A mirror falls off the wall and smashes on the

floor. The BOY is all over SAM kicking and pulling his

hair. MRS BUTTLE's reaction, however, is to try and pull

the BOY away from SAM. By the time she succeeds, SAM is on

his hands and knees, in pain. The BOY is crying and

shouting, and MRS BUTTLE is loudly trying to quieten the

BOY.

From SAM'S POV, a piece of broken mirror lying on the

floor reflects the hole in the ceiling ... with JILL's

head and shoulders framed in the hole. The moment is

unreal for SAM in his dazed condition. The vision seems

unreal too. JILL is staring at SAM out of the piece of

mirror and. she's very much the GIRL from his dream now.

SAM grabs at the image, i.e. at the mirror, shifting the

angle so that the vision disappears. He looks for the

vision on the floor but can't find it. Then he begins to

realise the reality of what he has seen. He stands up,

dazed and battered. MRS BUTTLE has been looking up at the

ceiling. SAM looks up at the ceiling but there is now only

the empty space of the hole.

MRS BUTTLE is shouting. SAM rushes out of the flat.

SAM looks both ways and heads for the stairs.

SAM runs up the stairs to the floor above and finds

himself in -

He runs along the corridor but has omitted to count the

doors downstairs and now doesn't know which door to knock

at. He hesitates. He rings the bell on what he hopes is

the right door. The bell doesn't work. He bangs on the

door. The door opens a crack. A malevolent eye looks at

him.

The door shuts firmly. SAM rushes to the next door.

SAM bursts into JILL's flat. He sees the hole in the

floor. The place looks derelict. He hears an explosion and

looks out of a window to see his car in flames. JILL is

apparently retreating from it across the forecourt. She is

carrying a suitcase and bundles.

SAM rushes down the stairs.

SAM charges out into the open air. JILL has disappeared.

The Messerchmidt, however, is in flames. SAM doesn't know

which way to turn. Spotting an old mattress lying by the

building he grabs it and throws it over the car in an

attempt to smother the flames. The group of CHILDREN watch

him silently. Suddenly with a great roar, JILL's lorry

comes round the corner at speed. SAM sees that JILL is at

the wheel. SAM runs after the lorry.

The lorry roars away. SAM dashes back to his smoldering

three-wheeler. He flings himself into it and starts it up.

He also roars away, except that he doesn't move... all

three wheels have been removed. He turns round in despair

and sees the group of CHILDREN regarding him

expressionlessly.

They include the little GIRL BUTTLE.

Defeated, he slumps down against his charred vehicle. A

shadow passes across his face. Looking up he sees GIRL

BUTTLE standing over him.

GIRL BUTTLE doesn't answer and SAM starts to walk away.

After a few yards, the thought strikes him: he turns back

to look at the little GIRL BUTTLE who stands alone

patiently in the vandalised wilderness.

It is the end of the work day. The CLERKS are busily

getting their coats and leaving the office. As the last

one goes MR. KURTZMAN comes out of his private office with

his hat and coat on. He turns out the office light. He

sees SAM isolated in the empty room, still working at his

computer console. Totally absorbed in what he is doing.

SAM doesn't seem to hear him. On the computer screen is a

front and side view picture of JILL. Her name and code

number is at the top of the screen. SAM is punching up

personal dossier information like "age", "height",

"weight", "colour of hair", "colour of eyes",

"distinguishing marks" etc.

SAM punches up a few more categories for JILL's dossier.

SAM punches a few more buttons on the computer.

At this point the word "Classified" superimposes itself

over most of the screen and "IRQ/3" starts agitating at

the bottom

Throughout this verbal wallpaper SAM has been punching

keys cancelling the CLASSIFIED overprint. He then punches

in the code for a hard-copy print-out. JILL's two-view

computer portrait rolls out as SAM ponders his options.

KURTZMAN picks up JILL's print-out and glances at it. He

grimaces and drops it back on the desk with a shudder.

SAM nods. He turns off the machine. He stands up and

follows KURTZMAN towards the door. The door is some

distance away, and before they get there all the lights go

out. KURTZMAN bumps into a desk and curses.

Packed tightly between other passengers SAM is busy

drawing long flowing hair with a pencil on the computer

print-out of JILL turning her into the DREAM GIRL. The

transport cage rattles through its elevated tube towards a

tower block.

The transport cage arrives at the platform forming the end

of SAM's corridor. Passengers disembark and head for

various doors along the corridor. SAM almost fails to get

off in time - so concentrated on JILL's picture is he.

Looking as if he's trying to make up his mind about

something he heads for his own front door.

SAM enters. The place is in a state of turmoil. Servicing

panels are off the walls. Conduit, ducting, pipes, unknown

mechanical horrors spew from the wall as if the place was

disemboweled. SPOOR stands in the middle of it all trying

to direct two other WORKMEN who are poring over wiring

plans which seem to make little sense to them. DOWSER is

not visible but there is a great deal of clunking and

banging going on somewhere behind the wall.

For reply SPOOR whips a small tape-recorder out of his bag

and plays back SAM's original phone call to Central

Services, claiming "an emergency". SPOOR shuts off his

machine, puts back into his bag and comes out with what

looks like a quite thin phone hook with carbon paper

between each page. SPOOR indicates the bottom of page 1.

SAM takes out KURTZMAN's old-fashioned fountain pen from

his pocket, signs where indicated. SPOOR registers that

SAM's signature has hardly penetrated through he first

carbon let alone the other 43

SAM resignedly starts signing all the other pages one by

one. SPOOR realises that DOWSER's echo has gone missing.

DOWSER bursts through a panel in the wall. This is the

panel which TUTTLE had removed and replaced. A few of the

flat's intestines have come out with DOWSER. DOWSER has

made a find - TUTTLE's spare part.

DOWSER points to TUTTLE's spare part which is hanging out

of the wall attached to rubber tube. SPOOR examines this

closely. SAM watches alarmed. The TWO MEN go into a

mumbling huddle.

SPOOR and DOWSER and the other workmen gather up their

tools - put them in the bag, grab everything else that

belongs to them and are leaving. SPOOR grabs the form-book

out of SAM's hands, rips out the last page, thrusts that

page at SAM, shoves the book into his bag. The WORKMEN

begin leaving the flat.

They go, slamming the door behind hem, leaving SAM in the

ruins of his flat.

SAM stands in the maimed sitting-room. Wall panels are

off. Tubes, ducting wires etc. spill out into the room

like greasy intestines. SAM more or less collapses onto a

couch. He stares at the ceiling. The room is gently

hiccoughing and belching around him. He stares at the

print-out of JILL's face. Slowly it dissolves into the

DREAM GIRL.

DREAM GIRL's face fills screen. The camera pulls back to

reveal that she is separated from us by a tangled forest

of conduit/ducting-like vines. SAM is struggling through

the vines, which grab at him, entwine and entangle him.

Finally bursting free he reaches out for the GIRL hovering

before him, But as he embraces her she dissolves in smoke

and he plummet into a void beneath his feet.

CUT to SAM plummeting down through dense clouds, his cape

twisting around him. Somehow he manages to wrestle it

clear of his body. Gripping the corners he whips the cape

up and over his head. The wind catches it and fills it out

until it acts as a parachute slowing SAM's descent.

Suddenly the clouds thin out and SAM can see below him.

SAM is heading down towards a barren landscape. Strange

mounds dot the barrenness - they ooze smoke and the

occasional flame. Near one of the mounds are two long

lines of shrouded FIGURES being forced into two giant

cages, suspended beneath two great misshapen balloons. The

black-robed FORCES OF DARKNESS (FOD) surround the

PRISONERS, relentlessly herding them towards the cages.

The entire scene is strangely coloured by unearthly light.

The sky is blood red and where the sun should be is a

black disc. SAM descends on his cape-parachute.

CUT to PRISONERS in their grey shrouds, shuffling towards

the jaws of the brutal cages. They are defeated,

destroyed, without hope. The FOD prod and whip them

forward. One of the FOD raises his spear to force a

stumbling PRISONER to his feet but stops with the spear

raised above his head. He has seen something. Other FODS

turn to see what it is. CUT to SAM landing on the beach -

a short distance away. The PRISONERS stop and look up. We

see their faces clearly for the first time. One of them is

MRS BUTTLE. Others are PEOPLE SAM saw in the flats, and

the KIDS. SAM recognises them. He is slightly taken aback.

A look of determination crosses his face. He draws the

sword. EVERYONE is frozen in place. SAM starts forward.

But he is stopped by a violent tremor as the earth begins

to tremble and shake. EVERYONE looks terrified. With a

mighty roar a crack opens up in the ground between SAM and

the OTHERS. Brilliant rays of light shaft upwards from the

opening. And then, with a maniacal shriek, the large black

flapping thing shoots out of the crevasse and streaks high

into the sky. SAM hesitates and turns to look down into

the light. There, under several meters of the earth's

crust are fluffy white clouds darting about in a beautiful

blue sky. SAM is delighted but as he looks up he is frozen

in his tracks by an enormous FIGURE that straddles the

crevasse. This terrifying CREATURE stands over 12 feet

high. He is encased in a frightening concoction of ancient

Japanese armour which seems on closer examination to he

made of computer parts. His face is hidden behind a

horrific steel mask. It is the GIANT SAMURAI WARRIOR that

was pushing the drawer closed in the Storeroom Of

Knowledge. In his hand is an evil-looking spear. SAM is

unsure which way to turn. The GREY PRISONERS are being

loaded into the cages with more speed. He turns to face

the GIANT WARRIOR. As SAM steps forward the GIANT stands

ominously still. Then very slowly he raises his spear in

an almost religious gesture. POOF! He vanishes. As he does

the light from the day is cut off. Looking down, SAM sees

that he crevasse has vanished as well. Maniacal laughter

from the flapping black thing makes SAM look up to see the

ballooned cage packed with GREY PRISONERS rise up from the

ground and begin to float away escorted by the Black

flapping Thing. SAM rushes after it grabbing one of the

trailing ropes. But as he is hoisted into the air it is

severed by the FODS. He tumbles to the ground. Looking

around he sees that, for some reason, the second ballooned

cage is still tethered nearby. SAM rushes over to it and

begins chopping the tethers away.

The cage bobbles ungainlily as SAM cuts the last

restraining rope. Grabbing hold he is pulled upwards, but

before he can reach the cage something clutches his leg

halting his progress. As he struggles his other leg is

caught. He is being pulled back by two giant hands.

Looking down he can see that from the top of one of the

smoking mounds a head and two giant arms protrude. The

face looks like MR KURTZMAN. SAM desperately clings on to

the rope as he struggles with the restraining hands.

SAM kicks and strains but the hands hold firm.

SAM wakes up. His feet are entangled in some wiring and

ducting. He is still in his devastated sitting room. As he

untangles himself the door bell rings. It takes a moment

for SAM to recognise it as the door bell. Annoyed and

still disturbed by the dream he gets up and goes to the

door. He opens it. In bursts a GIRL dressed in a silly

bell-boy costume with lots of glitter, net stockings and

big-bowed tap dancing shoes. She launches into a terrible

song and dance routine.

SAM and the GIRL stand looking at each other uneasily for

a moment.

The GIRL begins to dance again - but this time in a rather

strange strangled fashion.

SAM rings the doorbell to his mother's flat. He is

wearing. an unstylish tuxedo and bow tie - obviously his

only dress outfit. The door is opened by a LIVERIED FLUNKY

who's about to speak when an attractive 40-year old

woman's face appears over his shoulder and addresses SAM

over the threshold.

SAM steps inside, where the flunky proceeds to search him.

The place is full of sleek people - smartly but less

formally dresses than SAM. It is an elegant baroque room -

lavishly appointed but still violated by the ubiquitous

Central Service ducts that thrust through antique

tapestries and gilt mirrors with little regard for

aesthetics or the interior decorator's feelings.

SAM pushes away the FLUNKY who is by now passing a metal

detector over him.

DR JAFFE hoves into view.

DR JAFFE is no longer suave. He has been transformed by

drink and success. Mostly by drink.

A handsome young piece of BEEFCAKE delivers a drink to

MOTHER.

The BEEFCAKE takes MOTHER away.

SAM and DR JAFFE turn to see who is speaking. It is DR

CHAPMAN a tall, pipe-smoking, professional-looking gent.

SAM wishing to escape from this bitchery turns away but

suddenly freezes - the reflection in the large wall mirror

next to him is not that of the party guests - but of the

GREY PRISONERS in his dream - they are massed in the room

looking pleadingly towards him.

Through the GREY PRISONERS pushes MRS TERRAIN.

SAM turns around to see her pushing through the party

guests.

MRS TERRAIN is limping and is even more heavily swathed in

bandages than the last time.

DR CHAPMAN hastily moves away as MRS TERRAIN comes up. She

claims SAM, taking his arm.

She drags SAM through the party and we arrive at her

daughter, SHIRLEY, who is, of course, a wallflower.

But he is alone with SHIRLEY, standing at the entrance to

his MOTHER's embarrassingly rampant boudoir style bedroom.

In amongst the diaphanous curtains enclosing the bed

MOTHER is playing hide and seek with a YOUNG STUD.

SHIRLEY looks at him terrified.

This isn't what SAM expected. He smiles weakly at her.

SAM turns round, to see JACK LINT a few paces away.

He indicates his cute blonde perfect junior executive's

WIFE

ALISON locks displeased.

SAM spins round and sees a very pleasant-looking

distinguished OLD MAN moving in their direction. He is in

a wheelchair.

JACK is taken aback, envious and eager to please.

JACK propels his WIFE away.

HELPMANN I need your help, Sam.

It's the sort of bathroom you would expect of MOTHER, an

adjunct to her boudoir. The pink or purple lavatory is in

the process of flushing, while SAM holds MR HELPMANN

vertical, grasping him under the armpits, while MR

HELPMANN is zipping his fly.

He is lowering HELPMANN into the wheelchair.

In maneuvering HELPMANN SAM clumsily knocks over one of

the pretty pots which fussily decorate MOTHER's bathroom

shelf. A thin layer of powder is spread over the wash-

stand.

With his finger HELPMANN is tracing letters in the

powdered surface.

We see that HELPMANN has traced the letters EREIAMJH in

the powder.

HELPMANN puts out his hand. SAM takes it.

HELPMANN blows away the spilled powder and EREIAMJH with

it.

CUT to WIDE SHOT of massive imposing lobby - much like the

Records lobby - but this one is very austere. No crowds.

No statues. No decoration. Not even the ever-present

security checks. Impressive. And a bit unnerving. Framed

in the doorway is a lone TINY FIGURE. CUT to CLOSE UP.

It's SAM. He hesitates and then enters. CUT to video

screen. The video camera follows SAM across the lobby -

til he stops in tight profile at Reception Desk. We tilt

up revealing SAM standing facing us just beyond the

monitor which is on the desk.

SAM steps out of the lift.The lift doors close. SAM looks

up and down the corridor hearing nothing. Silence. Then

he, and we, begin to hear a sound. It is a curious

whirring murmuring tummeling sound, and it seems to be

growing closer. Suddenly a scrum of PEOPLE swings into

view around a corner at the far end of the rather long

corridor. At the centre of the scrum is a TALL MAN with a

magisterial expression and an air of eternal bustle. This

is MR WARREN. He is surrounded by the EXPEDITERS who are

competing for his attention with bits of paper and bits of

sentences. MR WARREN is snapping out decisions. Satisfied

EXPEDITERS drop out of the scrum at intervals,

disappearing one at a time through one of the many doors

which line both sides of the corridor.The scrum doesn't

get any smaller because new EXPEDITERS dart out of other

doors and join the milling MOB. The whole circus is coming

by SAM at the rate of knots. The sound it makes breaks

down into something like this.

CUT to SAM watching this caravanserai with awe as it

starts pass him.

SAM doesn't have the nerve to jump into this. The scrum

sweeps by and fades away along the corridor, and finally

disappearing around the corner at the other end. SAM

follows. Silence has descended again.

SAM gets to the corner of the corridor and finds a similar

corridor at right angles. He hesitates and continues. Then

he starts to hear the sound again. It is coming up from

behind. MR WARREN has circumnavigated the building. The

same sort of business is being enacted at the same pace.

As the scrum reaches SAM he gathers his nerve and jumps

right in beside WARREN, and keeps going.

WARREN suddenly pivots around, swinging SAM 240 degrees in

the direction they came from plus a bit.

The door says: OFFICER DZ/015.

SAM has no idea what he ought to say.

WARREN whirls off in a flurry of paperwork and EXPEDITERS

leaving SAM standing dumfounded at the entrance to his

office.

CUT to SAM's POV of the office. It is about four feet

wide. A small blacked-out window high on the far wall is

bisected by what looks like a recently constructed side

wall. The room is bare except for a chair and a desk which

is also bisected by the new wall. Pneumatic tubes hang

from the ceiling. SAM slowly enters the room.

SAM looks lost ... disoriented. He doesn't know where to

begin because there's nothing to begin with. He squeezes

in behind his desk and for want of anything else to do

starts arranging his "in" and "out" baskets. There in his

"in" basket is one of the ubiquitous executive toys -

gaily wrapped with a card from HELPMANN - Merry Xmas &

Welcome. SAM can't quite believe. He returns to lining up

his pencils, placing a couple of bocks (phone books)

against the wall on the left extreme of his desk. SAM

turns his attention away from the books when suddenly they

both fall over with a "plop". Puzzled, he stands the books

up again, turns his eyes away and "plop". Same result.

Intrigued, a bit exasperated, SAM carefully, and before

his very eyes, the desk begins to disappear into the wall,

and "plop", the books topple over. Puzzled, SAM grabs hold

of the desk and begins to try to pull it back through the

wall. The desk moves back an inch or so, but then stops,

somehow held stubbornly. SAM grits his teeth, reallllly

pulls, grimacing a bit, but the desk won't budge.

Intrigued, SAM gets up, goes around his desk and heads for

the door.

Cut to SAM coming out of his office, turning right and

walking to the next door, the nameplate of which reads:

OFFICER DV/048.

As is his custom, SAM opens the door without knocking.

CUT to SAM'S POV. Here is an office much like his. It's

the other half of his room bisected by the partition wall.

The other half of his desk is occupied by a slimy looking,

round-headed little JUNIOR EXECUTIVE wholly occupied with

trying to drag a bit more of the desk into his office. He

is unaware of SAM.

LIME startled, lets go of his desk and vents his

irritation on SAM whom he mistakes for someone else.

SAM hesitates, but sees that there's no other way.

He takes Jill's print-out sheet from SAM and begins to

punch the keys laboriously with one finger. Nothing

happens.

SAM hesitates, but goes.

SAM exits.

SAM is sitting in his office listening to the protracted

one finger exercise which is going on next door. He stares

dumbly at the shining, absolutely useless, executive toy.

The CAMERA skims along over an icy sea. This is SAM'S POV

as he wings his way over the water with his new gleaming

wings. In the distance rises a strange massive ship.

As he gets closer we can see that the snip is listing

heavily to one side. In fact it is barely afloat. Closer

still, it becomes apparent that the ship is made of stone.

Dark, evil, grey blocks of granite form not only the hull,

but the super-structures and smokestacks. It looks like a

massive medieval fortress gone to sea. The screen is

engulfed in stone. The CAMERA heads up the side of the

ship. Higher and higher we climb - past course after

course of mammoth stones. Reaching the first deck, we

continue upwards. There appears to be no entrance. SAM is

looking frustrated and angry. But then he spots an

opening. A few stones have come loose - one of them juts

out forming a ledge. As the cage passes, SAM jumps and

managed to gain a foothold on the outcropping. Squeezing

thru the gap in the rocks, he makes his way thru a dark

passage. Emerging from the opening he finds himself

teetering over an enormous abyss formed by the outer hull

and the inner stone core of the ship. Great stone ribs

curve downwards thru the darkness broken only by narrow

shafts of brilliant light streaming from occasional cracks

and fissures in the stone core. For a brief moment SAM

gets a glimpse of blue sky thru one of the openings but

his attention is distracted by a distant moan. Huddled far

below him at the bottom of the dark abyss are hundreds of

grey shrouded PRISONERS. Their moan blends with the creaks

and groans of the stones as the ship slowly wallows back

and forth. Suddenly a great boom resounds throughout the

ship. SAM is unsure where it comes from. And then another

boom reverberates about him. He has to steady himself as

the ship quivers from the noise. Another book. He clutches

at the wall.

SAM's head is leaning against the wall of his office. The

boom repeats. LIME is knocking on the other side. SAM

leaps up. As he leaves his office he looks back to see the

desk creep through to LIME's office a little bit more.

SAM enters. LIME is standing, proudly holding out a sheet

of paper.

He stops, having come to the end. He looks at the other

side of the paper but there's nothing there.

Is this all you got?

SAM sits on LIME's chair and deftly punches the computer

keys.

SAM heads off down corridor. WARREN & CO. appear.

The cavalcade is passing the lifts. SAM backs away into

the open lift. The cavalcade passes on out of sight. The

lift contains a CHARLADY with a bucket and mop. She

remains in the lift as SAM joins her.

SAM presses the button for the 50th floor. The lift doors

close on him and the CHARLADY. From somewhere far away

there is the groaning shriek of a man in pain. SAM glances

around the lift. There appears to be an air conditioning

vent in the ceiling.

SAM glances enquiringly at the CHARLADY who merely smiles

at him. Another scream is heard.

The CHARLADY smiles again.

The CHARLADY fiddles with something in her ears and pulls

out a pair of wax earplugs.

The lift arrives.

The lift arrives. SAM steps out. The CHARLADY remains in

the lift. The doors close. SAM heads down surgically clean

white-tiled corridor.

Passing a white-coated TECHNICIAN monitoring what appears

to be electric meters, SAM comes to a door with 5001.

Above the door a red light is glowing. SAM knocks. The red

light goes out and a green light comes on. SAM enters.

Inside there is a connecting door to he next door room but

the only person in the immediate room is a pleasant-

looking FEMALE typist, wearing headphones, chewing gum and

typing with great facility. SAM approaches the TYPIST who,

busily typing, twinkles a greeting (mimed) and silently

mouths the words ...

SAM nods, and stands quietly by her. He can hear tiny

sounds coming through her headphones. He looks down at the

piece of paper in the typewriter. He reacts a bit

strangely, perhaps even winces. We see he close up of the

words being struck crisply on paper.

She is looking at SAM helpfully, holding one of the

earphones away from her ear. From this earphone we can

just hear quietly ...

The TYPIST nods smiling. She puts back the earphone and

carries on typing.

She types a little more but suddenly stops.

She takes off the earphones and takes the paper and

carbonums out of her typewriter and starts collating all

the different copies.

Through the frosted glass door leading into the next area,

SAM can see a FIGURE come through a double door and turn

left, making a silly 'hi' sign to the TYPIST as he exits

from sight. She is charmed. Almost immediately after them,

a white-coated TECHNICIAN exits, but to the left.

SAM goes through the glass door and is about to push open

the double doors in front of him. He is halted by a noise

from the TYPIST - she indicates that he is to go to the

left. He does so and enters an office. An antique desk

with a large collection of executive toys and other

tastefully reassuring furniture fill the room which is a

rather oddly shaped ... distorted as it by the curved wall

of the much larger room that SAM was stopped from

entering. Nevertheless the feel of the room is confidently

successful. A buzzing noise draws SAM's attention to the

wash basin in the far corner. The Information Retrieval

TECHNICIAN is standing by a sink massing his temples with

old-fashioned scalp vibrators. His back to us.

The TECHNICIAN makes no sign of having heard this. He

continues vibrating his temples.

Getting no response SAM walks over to the TECHNICIAN. As

he passes the desk he notices a strange mask lying face

down on the desk top. It seems strangely familiar - but as

it is a negative concave image SAM isn't sure. He

continues over to the TECHNICIAN.

He touches the TECHNICIAN on the shoulder, who jumps with

a start. He spins around and turns out to be none other

than JACK LINT. He is amazed to see SAM.

JACK looks confused. He pauses, and then removes ear

plugs.

Am I?

Please, Sam, we're going to have to be open to each other

on this one. If you make a reputation with this case,

it'll be at my expense.

JACK goes over to the sink and turns on the taps full

blast, splashing the water noisily into the basin.

JACK turns off taps and goes behind screen.

JACK comes from behind the screen with a look confirming

just what SAM fears, and hands him a suit.

SAM begins to put the suit on.

JACK presents SAM with something to sign. He then gives

him the dossier.

SAM steps out of Room 5001, newly suited with old suit

over arm. TWO GUARDS are guiding a BAGGEE down the

corridor ahead of him. Suddenly, the BAGGEE breaks away

from his GUARDS and begins to cannonball down the corridor

directly at SAM. SAM is flattened against the wall as the

BAGGEE rockets by.

CUT to GUARDS strolling past SAM.

CUT to BAGGEE running full tilt to the end of the

corridor, smashing into the wall, bouncing back, getting

up (now cross-ways in the corridor), bouncing off that

wall, then the wall behind him, then ...

Slightly unnerved, SAM gets in the lift, pushes the button

for his floor - the 30th - and immediately begins perusing

JILL's dossier. The lift descends. But unnoticed by SAM

continued past his floor without stopping. It stops at the

Lobby Mezzanine. SAM looks up and realizes he is on the

wrong floor. Angrily he pushes the correct floor number

but before the doors close he hears an angry woman's voice

echoing through the massive lobby. He looks in the

direction of the porters desk. There stands JILL arguing

with the PORTER.

SAM is frozen. He can't believe what he sees. The lift

doors close. SAM is too slow to stop them. Madly he pushes

the buttons - to no effect. The lift descends. (At this

point we had better describe the lift. It is a cross

between the old metal grille lifts with accordion grille

doors and the super-sleek modern lifts that rise and fall

in glass tubes so that one can have panoramic views of

dramatic architectural spaces such as the lobbies of the

Ministry.)

SAM can see JILL and if JILL were to look up she could see

SAM descending. He is shouting and rattling the bars of

the lift cage but no sound escapes to catch her attention.

SAM sinks below the floor of the lobby desperately trying

to stop the demon lift. From his POV we see JILL

disappearing from view still arguing with the PORTER.

The lift comes to rest. SAM is still trying to get it to

respond and return him to the lobby. TWO TECHNICIANS are

waiting as the doors open. From SAM's POV he sees them

hang a sign on the door and walk away. He bangs the

buttons for another moment with no result. He looks out of

the lift and is able to read the sign - "LIFT OUT OF

ORDER". Frantically he looks around for another lift. All

the others are on distant floors - then he spots one off

to one side, its doors standing open. Rushing over to it

he leaps inside and reaches to push the floor number - but

there are no numbers on the buttons, only letters. Before

he can sort this out a voice shouts at him.

A GUARD approaches looking tough and mean.

SAM fumbles through his pockets desperate to get back to

the lobby before JILL leaves. He has forgotten he is

wearing his new I.D. badge. The GUARD can't see it because

JILL's dossier is covering it.

SAM gives up trying to find his I.D. card.

He runs off - dropping suit - towards some stairs he has

spotted.

He starts to run after SAM. TWO OTHER GUARDS also give

chase.

SAM scrambles up the stairs. GUARDS in pursuit.

The original GUARD rushes over to a guard desk and inserts

key into cover of what is clearly an alarm button.

SAM still running.

JILL is still arguing with PORTER.

JILL thumps the desk with her fist.

The GUARD throws the alarm switch.

Alarm bells start ringing and from secret doors heavily

armed GUARDS leap out, their guns trained on JILL as she

appears to be the only person around.

JILL has only the form in her hand - which she dutifully

drops. She is terrified by the suddenness and size of the

response to her hitting the desk. The GUARDS close in.

SAM rushes out of the door leading to the stairs. He can't

believe the sight that greets him. He responds

instinctively,

He rushes over to the Porter's desk just as the GUARDS

behind him come through the door. He doesn't have a clue

what he is going to do but, as he reaches the group of

GUARDS they snap attention. Confused he looks around and

then realizes his I.D. badge, is on his lapel and the

GUARDS are responding as trained. The GUARDS chasing him

screech to a halt when they see the others snapping to

attention. Everyone looks confused, embarrassed, hesitant

to make the next move. SAM breaks the silence.

Realising he has JILL's dossier, he shows it to everyone -

her print-out pictures are on the front page.

It's a classified matter ... I'll include your fine

handling of the situation in my report

SAM is suddenly aware he is still holding the executive

toy present - he hands it to the PORTER.

He hustles her towards the door.

SAM marches JILL out of the main door and down the front

steps of the Information Retrieval building. As he

struggles with her some of the papers in the dossier slip

out unbeknownst to SAM and leave a trail of litter behind

them.

CUT to the POV of the Ministry of Information front door

GUARDS. They are looking down the steps at the retreating

backs of SAM and JILL who are jostling each other. The

GUARDS see JILL elbow SAM in the ribs.

He turns around, knowing that the game is up. But instead

of one of the GUARDS shouting - it's an OLD LADY angrily

glaring at him and pointing to a "Keep your city tidy"

sign above a litter bin.

SAM sees the trail of dossier litter blowing about the

pavement. He lets go of JILL for a moment to grab at the

papers. The LADY continues screaming at him, her little

Pekinese dog (who incidentally wears a plaster over his

bum hole) yaps at his ankles, ripping SAM's new trousers.

SAM is torn between trying to regain the pages of the

dossier and following JILL who has disappeared round the

corner. He gives up retrieving the paper and rushes after

JILL.

CUTTING back to the TWO GUARDS, who have been observing

all this bizarre activity, we see one of them reading one

of the pieces of paper.

JILL is behind the steering wheel of her lorry which is

just starting to move off. SAM frantically runs towards

the lorry, leaps on the running board and pulls himself up

into the cab.

SAM looks up and down his side of the street anxiously

before realizing that JILL has switched off the engine and

is sitting glaring at him. They are stopped, right in

front of the Ministry building.

Desperately SAM pulls roller blind down over window.

Still JILL does nothing. SAM pulls down roller blind over.

window.

JILL continues to sit, glaring.

SAM delves into his pockets and drags out a handful of

I.D. cards and papers, most of which fall onto the floor.

He then remembers that the badge he's looking for is

pinned to his jacket. He thrusts it forward at JILL.

JILL starts up and moves off, very cool, in her own time.

By now SAM has got the shakes.

A high shot of the lorry, moving through the city among

traffic.

JILL is preoccupied with driving. She is smoking a

cigarette. SAM occasionally glances at her.

JILL blows smoke in SAM's direction.

We PULL BACK and lift off to see that the beautiful

countryside through which we've been travelling is in fact

a solid wall of giant bill-boards, advertising all sorts

of wonders like pine scented lavatory paper, sea spray

flavored cigarettes - you name it - These advertisements

form an unbroken corridor down which the road travels.

From a bird's eye POV we see that the land behind the

hoardings is blasted and blighted with garbage etc.

The power plant is an extensive, brutal, Dante's Inferno

of a landscape made mainly of steel ... towers, chimneys,

huge pipes, buildings which look like bomb shelters ... It

is still daylight but the whole scene is murky and

forbidding because of the swirling steam and smoke. In the

murk can be seen sinister-looking FIGURES in protective

clothing and hard hats.

This is the world which is now entered by JILL's lorry ...

The lorry halts at a despatching hut near the crane and

JILL jumps down from the cab. SAM stays inside, looking

around. Something catches his eye.

CUT to facade of house. Window boxes with flowers and

shrubbery surrounded by a white picket fence provide

domestic charm, however, in the doorway stands a MAN with

protective clothing and something like a gas-mask over his

face. He is waving to someone. Slowly the house rises out

of frame.

In a WIDER SHOT we can see the house is suspended from and

a giant crane that swings it through the air - air filled

with stead, smoke, evil-smelling fumes. It is lowered onto

the back of a lorry and we can see that the house is one

of many prefabricated houses used in the construction of

the power plant.

SAM watches JILL walk away from the lorry and enter the

despatcher's hut. He looks around uneasily and then he

start examining the inside of the lorry and opens a

compartment which seems to be full of maps, rags, etc. He

gets grease on sleeve of his suit. In the space behind the

seats he finds the pieces of luggage which JILL had

carried away from the flat. He starts to examine this

cautiously and is startled by the sudden opening of the

cab door.

JILL gets into the cab and closes the door and drives to a

forward looking position.

The lorry stops and JILL gets out. From SAM'S P.O.V., the

house suspended from the crane starts moving through the

sky towards the lorry. He glances back to see JILL slip a

package out from behind the seat. She glances

surreptitiously over her shoulder and slipping the parcel

inside her jacket she walks away.

SAM climbs down from the cab trying to keep an eye on

JILL. He ends up standing next to a rusty Kodak Photospot

standard. The picture on it - though faded by pollution -

is of the beautiful valley that has now been replaced by

the murk and mess of the power plant. JILL has made her

way over to a rather SHADOWY FIGURE lurking around the

corner of one of the metal structures. They appear to be

exchanging parcels. SAM is worried by this suspicious

behaviour - reinforced as it is by a Ministry poster on

the side of the building that illustrates, almost

identically, the action we have just seen along with the

warning: "MIND THAT PARCEL. EAGLE EYES CAN SAVE A LIFE".

CUT to the house being lowered and secured onto the lorry.

JILL is starting up the lorry. SAM is glancing over her

shoulder at the suspicious parcel which is tucked behind

her. They move off. The last view of the power plant is of

a group of MEN all in protective clothing and masks

happily playing a game of volleyball.

SAM nods knowingly in the direction of the parcel.

JILL I don't know. Christmas present.

SAM picks it up.

He glances at her suspiciously.

SAM hesitates and puts the parcel down.

JILL gives him a quizzical look and smiles slightly, in

spite of herself. She turns away so that he won't notice.

SAM is at a loss.

JILL bursts out laughing. SAM joins in. They are both

laughing hysterically as they approach the Central

Supplies depot.

The impression is that the place could be an abandoned

airfield out to the use of a vast open air warehouse whose

contents is arranged in a grid pattern of "streets", all

the streets being lined by stacks, piles, ranks, jumbles

of goods and objects which seem at first to be arbitrarily

grouped, some of them (like the stacks of prefabricated

houses) standing in the open others protected under simple

areas of roofing. Each group of Assorted Supplies lies

inside the squares of the grid of streets. The streets are

eerily lit by lights just being switched on, and each

square is also lit by harsh localized lighting. The effect

is a nightmarish gigantic Aladdin's cave of black shadows

and garishly lit mountains of stuff.

JILL's lorry starts down one of the "streets".

SAM throws the lorry into a gut-sucking skid.

The lorry skids around a corner and roars down a side

street of containers.

SAM and JILL are fighting for control of the lorry.

At that moment the air is split apart by the wail of

sirens. SAM and JILL look back.

From inside two strategically placed wooden containers

stacked amongst the piles of containers marked

"AUTOMOBILES" burst forth two Security vehicles. Wood

flying, lights flashing, wheels smoking - they squeal away

in pursuit.

They struggle for control of the lorry.

The lorry rumbles down the street of containers lurching

from side to side as the battle in the cab wages back and

forth. Containers are smashed open and their contents

spill out only to be further damaged as the pursuing

Security vehicles crash through them. The lorry escapes

from the streets of containers and cannons through the

main gate and out on to the streets of the city.

SAM and JILL are still struggling violently for control of

the lorry. SAM is terribly inexpert as a driver but he

behaves like someone possessed. Through the rear view

mirrors he can see the Security vehicles catching up with

them. He starts fumbling with he multiple gear levers.

The lorry roars down a street of terraced houses and then

screeches around a corner.

SAM pushes JILL's hand back and grabs for the lever that

he thinks is overdrive. But rather than gaining speed

there is a terrible lurch as the house and trailer

disconnect from the cab.

The house slides off the trailer which is skidding

sideways and crunches to the ground just as the Security

vehicles round the corner.

From behind the DRIVER we can see that the house has

settled across the roadway at right-angle to the other

houses, making it appear to be a normal dead end street.

So shocked is the DRIVER that he fails to stop in time and

KABLOW!! the car smashes into the house.

Hot on the heels of the 1st car, the 2nd vehicle skids and

then smashes into the house which collapses and then

explodes in flames.

SAM sits paralysed with shock. The lorry has come to a

halt. JILL is desperately trying to get him to move.

A Security vehicle in full banshee howl roars through the

streets. We roar along with it as it rounds a corner and

skids to a halt at a safe but striking distance from

JILL's lorry. Heavily armed SECURITY POLICE pour out and

take up firing positions behind parked cars or whatever

other cover is available. Searchlights are played on the

lorry. The OFFICER IN CHARGE appears with a loud-hailer.

During the above speech a SMALL BOY on a tricycle "roars"

around a corner behind the SECURITY POLICE. He rides into

a gap between them, rolls his tricycle over and "takes

cover" behind it. He points his toy rifle at JILL's lorry

and takes shot. In reaction to the noise made by the kid's

rifle the OFFICER IN CHARGE dives for cover and the

SECURITY TROOPS open fire and pepper JILL's lorry cab with

holes. A few of the SECURITY TROOPS then rush forward and

fling open the cab door. The cab is empty. The OFFICER IN

CHARGE gets to his feet and looks about. His uniform is

covered with dust, oil and shit from the street. He just

misses seeing the back of the BOY as he disappears round

the corner on his tricycle.

To the lush sound of musak we glide through the glittering

sensuous, supportive world of ladies undergarments. As we

slip past girdles, bras, panti-hose for a variety of

exotic occasions we come upon SAM and JILL pushing a

shopping trolley. In the trolley is the "suspicious"

parcel which JILL was given at the power plant.

SAM grabs the parcel from the trolley and tries to start

tearing it open.

They start an ugly little struggle for the parcel. SAM's

suit gets slightly ripped. Their tug-of-war is interrupted

by a voice off camera.

SAM turns to see MRS TERRAIN and SHIRLEY a short distance

away. MRS TERRAIN is heavily bandaged and sitting in a

wheelchair which SHIRLEY is pushing.

From the TERRAINS' POV SAM looks as if he is wrestling

with a dummy, or with himself if he is beside a full

length mirror. The mirror or something obscures JILL. MRS

TERRAIN and SHIRLEY exchange puzzled looks and proceed

toward SAM.

She unwraps a set of red and black, fur trimmed things

with strategic holes in them.

At this moment there is an almighty explosion from the far

corner of the store. It is the corner that we last saw

JILL moving towards. SAM races towards the smoke, dust

covering his suit. He finds bras, knickers, broken shop

dummies, bleeding CUSTOMERS and SHOP ASSISTANTS all over

the place. On the edge of this devastated area he sees

JILL struggling out from under a pile of negligees and

plaster dust. He rushes over to her.

She has dug the parcel out of the debris and has ripped it

open. Under the brown paper are a dozen brightly coloured.

Christmas packages - yes you guessed it - executive toys.

She throws the parcel and its contents hard into SAM's

chest. He topples back-wards - tangling himself up with

the severed limbs of a shop dummy.

SAM sits in the debris - ashamed and relieved. Liquor

oozes from the broken bottle all over SAM's suit. He is at

a loss for words.

JILL's attention is attracted by moans coming from the

badly hurt BOMB VICTIMS. She goes to help them.

JILL goes around trying to make the INJURED comfortable.

SAM follows her. He takes off his jacket with his

Information Retrieval badge on the lapel and uses it to

make a pillow for one of these VICTIMS. By now sirens are

wailing, water sprinklers are functioning, and there is

general pandemonium. SECURITY GUARDS run into the area and

begin arresting everyone, including the DEAD and INJURED.

ONE OF THE GUARDS tries to drag off the WOMAN whom JILL is

attending.

The GUARD gives JILL a thump in the side of the face with

his gloved hand. SAM sees red.

The GUARD looks up and as he does so he is transformed

into the GIANT WARRIOR from SAM's dream. He towers over

the WOUNDED, the DYING and the debris of the blasted

lingerie department. SAM grabs for a weapon and comes up

with one of the arms (now detached) of the shop dummy. It

makes a passable club.

The TWO COMBATANTS square off ... looking for an opening

... a chink in the other's defences - at which point SAM

is flattened from behind by a TROOPER's gun butt.

SAM is falling down the inner wall of the stone ship. He

tumbles end over end - unable to stop his crashing

descent. With a thud he hits the bottom. Stunned, bruised

and battered he tries to get up. Standing over him are the

GREY PRISONERS. They press forward.

The GREY PRISONERS dissolve into what looks like several

BAGGEES.

The BAGGEES hang from a track on the ceiling of the Black

Maria. SAM is lying on the floor, covered by his jacket,

with his badge prominently displayed. He is dazed and

mumbling ... the only BAGGEE in the wagon apart from TWO

GUARDS who have removed their helmets and are relaxing

while travelling back to base.

SAM stirs and groans

SAM is coming to his senses. He takes in the situation,

sees all the BAGGEES and staggers to his knees.

He begins rummaging through the BAGGEES. ONE of which is

dressed as FATHER CHRISTMAS. SAM opens the "face vent" of

the BAGGEE'S' hoods. A pair of strange eyes look out.

SAM continues fumbling about the BAGGEES.

SAM takes no notice.

GUARD A hits SAM, knocking him out again.

SAM recovers consciousness to find himself sitting at his

desk in his office. He is bruised and battered and has a

black eye. His suit is torn and bloody. MR WARREN is

gripping him by the throat and giving him a lecture.

Behind WARREN, crowding the doorway, are the PEOPLE who

circulate around him and are the cast of the WARREN high

energy circus. LIME is with them.

One of his ACCOLYTES thrusts a paper into his hand - he

glances at it.

He slams the form down onto the desk which is covered with

other forms.

He has picked up some of the forms.

He dumps the papers and folders onto SAM's desk and storms

off with his ENTOURAGE, leaving a gleeful LIME in the

doorway.

SAM rushes out of his office after LIME. But, LIME has

locked his door. SAM bangs on the door.

SAM storms back into his office. Reaching a peak of

frustration, he stuffs all his paperwork into the

pneumatic tube and sends it off into oblivion. Within

seconds it returns. SAM sends it off a second time. It

doesn't return a second time, periodically something

passes through the tubes causing them to move. SAM's

pneumatic tubes continue to pulsate, pressure building up.

At this point SAM's desk begins, as before, to creep

through the wall. He grabs it violently. He pulls it.

There is a scream from the other side of the wall. SAM

smiles. Th pneumatic tubes give a final convulsion and

then there appears to be a muffled explosion outside SAM's

office door. It shakes the whole building. SAM goes to his

door and opens it.

Every door in the corridor has been opened by the

occupants of the room. All the occupants stick their heads

into the corridor, all gazing with SAM at the variously

coloured blizzard of paper which has errupted through the

whole length of the corridor ceiling, from which protrudes

the intestines of the pneumatic system.

It is the end of the working day. JACK is leaving for

home. He is putting on his executive-styled bullet-proof

vest and packing his "Secret Connection" briefcase. As the

scene progresses SAM and JACK proceed out of the door and

down he corridor, passing other I.R. OFFICIALS. SAM is

dishevelled and causing acute sartorial embarrassment to

JACK to is trying to distance himself from him.

JACK and SAM have just emerged from the lift. The lift

doors close. SAM agitatedly speaks.

SAM is leaving the Ministry of Information Retrieval. The

lights in the foyer are blazing behind him, the street

lamps are lit. He is exhausted and depressed and anxious

about the safety and whereabouts of Jill. He begins to

retrace their first journey together, down the Ministry

front steps and around the corner to where Jill's truck

was parked.

SAM stands in the passageway where JILL's lorry was first

parked. The only hint of its once-upon-a-time presence is

a small splodge of oil by the kerb. SAM stands lost and

beaten under a street light. He slumps down to the

pavement unsure his next move. The street light is

reflected in the pool of oil. As he stares at the

reflected light it expands and becomes a patch of blue

cloud-filled sky. SAM turns to look at the actual street

light. It has become a crack of blazing light coming thru

the inner wall of the great stone ship.

SAM is pushing thru the GREY PRISONERS. The light from the

crack shafts across the space in which they find

themselves imprisoned, striking the opposite wall. There

in the bright pool of light are SAM's wings - beautiful,

shimmering silver... But, nailed to a large stone

cruciform - like a crucified eagle. SAM rushes towards

them and begins to pull them loose, But before he can, a

great cracking noise reverberates thru the ship and a

black shadow falls across SAM and the wings. Looking round

he saees the inner wall has split open to the level of the

floor - but, blocking the opening is the GIANT SAMURAI

WARRIOR. SAM draws his sword and rushes toward the GIANT.

The GIANT stands ominously still. Then very slowly he

raises his spear in front of himself in an almost

religious gesture. Poof! He vanishes! SAM is confused.

Suddenly a PRISONER shouts a warning and SAM spins round

just in time to avoid a slash of the spear by the gigantic

WARRIOR who is now standing directly behind him. SAM

parries a couple more thrusts of the spear and then

strikes with his sword. At thin air! The GIANT has

vanished again. SAM can't figure it out. But he hears

something whoosh and instinctively dodges as the GIANT who

is once again behind him brings the spear crashing down.

Again SAM manages a few parries as he is forced backwards.

He trips and falls to the ground. The spear goes into the

ground.

Before the GIANT can wrench the spear loose, SAM slashes

at him with his sword. But again the GIANT disappears. SAM

spins around. The GIANT is a short distance from him. SAM

rushes him. Again he vanishes. This time he reappears next

to the spear and tries to free it. But SAM attacks again

and the GIANT is forced to do his vanishing act before he

can recover the spear. SAM is becoming exasperated with

his behaviour, and as the GIANT reappears he shouts at him

to hold still, at the same time throwing his sword at the

big fellow. The sword pins the GIANT's foot to the ground

before he can disappear. Instead of blood pouring from the

wound, fire issues forth. SAM takes advantage of the

situation and manages to wrench the spear from the ground.

The GIANT is unable to escape as SAM charges, but manages

to dodge a bit. However the spear catches his arm and

opens a gash. Again fire pours out. As the big GUY tries

to stop the fire, SAM charges again. This time he succeeds

in striking dead centre. The GIANT gasps as fire gushes

from his chest. He staggers and crashes to the ground. The

wounds continue to bleed fire.

SAM gets his breath back and approaches the fallen

WARRIOR. Reaching down he removed the GIANT's mask. Fire

rushes forth from all the facial orifices. But the thing

that makes him catch his breath is the face itself. It's

his ... SAM's! While he stares in amazement the fire

begins to melt the face. In a moment it is unrecognizable.

SAM stands there stunned. Somewhere in the distance a bell

tolls.

SAM's face is reflected in the puddle of oil. He is

staring wide-eyed. A church bell tolls in the distance.

SAM is definitely spooked. He scrambles to his feet. He's

got to get out of here. He heads off down the passageway

but is brought quickly to a halt. There, in the shadows,

is SOMEONE smoking a cigarette. He hesitates and reverses

direction but, before he manages 2 paces a familiar voice

comes from behind him.

SAM spins around. Stepping out from the shadows is JILL -

cigarette in her mouth.

A patrol car approaches. Quickly SAM grabs JILL and goes

into a kiss to explain their presence. The car hesitates

for a moment and drives on.

They resume passionate kiss. After a moment

They head off clutching one another.

The Elysian Fields train arrives clattering. SAM and JILL

are the only passengers to emerge. They can't keep their

hands off one another. This is young love at its freshest

and most exciting. SAM looks up and down the platform

cautiously but there is no-one in sight as the train

clatters off again into the darkness. SAM and JILL

approach SAM's front door. He puts a key in the door and

tries to open the door but has some difficulty. Something

creaks. He gives the door a heavy shove and the door opens

and a shower of white powdery ice falls on his head..

SAM enters, followed by JILL. His breath immediately

starts come out of his mouth like clouds of steam. The

flat looks as though it has been disembowelled and then

deep frozen. Icicles are hanging down from everywhere. The

flat looks like a scrap dump. Every wall has spilled out

its disgusting steel and rubber entrails, filling most of

the available space and making progress through the flat

difficult. Half a dozen MEN are at work. They are

impossible to identify because they wear arctic clothing

and look more like spacemen. Their voices however belong

to SPOOR and DOWSER.

SPOOR offers a clipboard and pencil. He bangs the

clipboard against the furniture to knock the ice off it.

SAM grabs the clipboard and smashes it over SPOOR's head.

The board is so cold that it snaps in two. The paper on it

also snaps in two.

SAM pulls JILL out into the corridor.

As SAM and JILL begin to move down the corridor they see a

cigarette glow brightly in a dark recess.

They ere about to run when TUTTLE steps out of the

shadows.

A venerable PORTER carrying a single key on a large ring

is preceding SAM and JILL along the corridor which we have

seen before. The PORTER's name is MATTHEWS.

MATTHEWS unlocks MOTHER's door.

With which he ushers JILL through the door and closes the

door in MATTHEWS' face.

SAM goes.

SAM arrives at the Ministry of Information Retrieval

reception It's late. GROUPS OF CLEANERS are operating

cleaning machinery. SAM approaches the DESK PORTER who is

playing with the executive toy SAM gave him.

SAM crosses the foyer, checks to see that Dawson is no

longer watching him engrossed as he is with the executive

toy, and slips past the lift which, at that moment,

disgorges a leg-bandaged, be-crutched LIME who hobbles

across the lobby without seeing SAM, who slips down the

stairs which he knows lead to Helpmann's private lift.

SAM creeps along the corridor to the lift door - avoiding

a GROUP OF SECURITY MEN who are singing carols in close

harmony. ONE GUARD is conducting and giving instruction.

They are all incredibly big and brutal looking.

The CHOIR begins singing again. SAM reaches the lift and

looks at the small panel of letters set into the wall.

CLOSE UP of SAM's face concentrating. He hears, we hear, a

reprise of MR HELPMANN talking to SAM in MOTHER's

bathroom.

SAM is already typing the letters EREIAMJH into the

keyboard. The lift judders and star s to ascend.

SAM steps out of lift into an ante-room. No-one is there.

Tentatively he knocks on the connecting door into the

office. No reply. He slowly opens door.

The office is empty. SAM looks around - not sure what he

wants to do. He notices his MOTHER's picture on HELPMANN's

desk. He is just about to leave when his eye is caught by

an elaborate computer console in a side room. It

occasionally chatters away. Paper print-outs fill a large

bin. Hesitantly SAM approaches it. Looking around to make

sure the room is still empty he punches the On key and the

machine lights up.

He cautiously pushes a couple more keys. The teleprinter

machines have paused but one starts chattering now. He

looks at the one which is busy. A CLOSE UP shows us the

message coming through: TOTAL - TOTAL -TOTAL - CAR 15

REQUEST FEEDBACK STATUS ON SUBJECT BENJAMIN GEORGE

TROLLOPE - VAGRANT - DETAINED TERRORIST/SUSPECT/ASSOCIATE.

This is followed by a code number. The teleprinter falls

silent.

SAM returns to the keyboard and switches it off. He turns

to leave.

The teleprinter starts chattering again. SAM stops and

goes back to it and looks at the page again. A CLOSE UP

shows us: UPDATE - SUBJECT TROLLOPE DECEASED - CAUSE OF

DEATH GUNSHOT RESISTING ARREST. PLEASE DELETE FROM SPECIAL

CATEGORY. The computer spool revolves back and forth for

two or three seconds and then stops. SAM ponders this for

a moment and then heads back to the keyboard and swtiches

on the machine. He has he answer.

SAM enters the flat. JILL is nowhere to be seen. The

lights are out but, from the partially opened bedroom door

beams a shaft of bright light. Music pours forth ... it is

"BRAZIL".

Getting no answer he goes to the door and peers through.

There is JILL but, transformed. She is wearing one of

SAM's MOTHER's wigs which billows in the air blown by a

fan. She is also wearing a diaphanous nightdress borrowed

from the extensive wardrobe and is dancing slowly. She

looks like the DREAM GIRL. SAM stands open-mouthed. JILL

notices him and smiles.

He holds out a print-out. She reads it and slowly looks

up.

They rush together.

The screen is filled with brilliant white clouds rushing

about a beautiful blue sky. They course this way and that.

Pulling back we reveal that this patch of sky is inside a

mammoth glass-like cube held aloft by four stone columns.

The absolutely amazing scale of this cube is revealed as

SAM sweeps up into shot - his wings gleaming in the light.

He is a tiny speck but, overjoyed -he has found the day.

far below him the GREY PRISONERS gather beaming with

happiness. Diving back to the ground - SAM unsheaths his

sword and holding it aloft rushes to the base of one of

the great columns. The FORCES OF DARKNESS who have been

lurking in the shadows slink back. SAM, with one mighty

swing, strikes the column - the noise reverberates as

cracks begin to race up and through the column. It is

disintegrating. As it crumbles the mammoth cube begins to

topple. Everyone steps back. Down it plummets. And smashes

into a million pieces. The bright blue sky escapes in all

directions. The GREY PRISONERS' iron collars and chains

fall from their necks as they stand, surrounded by a

beautiful blue sky. They look up to the sun. SAM is

exultant.

Pull back from the sun through a window. The light falls

on SAM's smiling sleeping face. Showly he wakes. He little

by little remembers where he is and reaches over for JILL.

She isn't there. Sam panics.

She is sitting at the foot of the bed grinning at him. She

crawls over to him - they start to embrace.

But crash !!! it's a raid! Like a giant drill a whirling

cylinder has plunged through the ornate moulded ceiling of

Mother's bedroom, and we now see what made the neat hole

in the BUTTLE ceiling ... CUTS show doors being burst open

by SECURITY TROOPS. JILL and SAM are frozen in panic.

SECURITY TROOPS are sliding down a fireman's pole" from

the hole in the ceiling.

But it is SAM they have come for. He is being dragged out

of the bed.

A canvas bag is plunged over his head. All goes black.

A shot rings out. JILL screams. It echoes through the

blackness.

In absolute inky darkness, SAM and the CAMERA move through

space and time marked only by voices and sounds

encountered on the way. This sound-sequence fades in and

out a few times, indicating that the journey is longer

than the real-time period of the blacked-out sequence. We

hear:

Footsteps of SAM and GUARDS.

Distant howl of pain.

Muzak.

Iron gate.

Footsteps again.

Lift doors opening and closing.

Muzak.

Typing pool.

Office door opens and closes.

What looks like a rectangular hatch in the blackness

opens. It is the eyeslit on the front of SAM's bag being

opened by a SECURITY GUARD.

The SECURITY GUARD peers in for a moment and then steps

back to reveal two SMART OFFICIALS sitting at a desk. They

are looking up at SAM/us.

OFFICIAL B waves a sheet of paper. We hear SAM's voice.

The SECURITY GUARD appears briefly and zips up the hood

again plunging us back into darkness. We get more muffled

shouts, heavy breathing and subterranean son et lumiere.

Another SECURITY GUARD opens the flap on SAM's hood. We

see another TWO OFFICIALS.

THE GUARD closes the flap. Once again darkness and

confusion. until another SECURITY GUARD opens the flap

again to reveal another TWO OFFICIALS.

The flap is closed and opened again very quickly - NEW

OFFICIALS are revealed. This process repeats again and

again - getting faster and faster. The OFFICIALS' faces

seem to become a changing blur. Their voices overlap in a

growing cacophony. The desk and the other items in the

room remain static. To add to this disturbing effect the

FORCES OF DARKNESS begin to gather in the room behind the

OFFICIALS. As they increase in number they begin to press

forward unseen by the OFFICIALS. Soon they fill the view

through the flap.

CUT to SAM struggling with the FORCES OF DARKNESS. He is

overwhelmed by the black hordes. They fill the screen. SAM

disappears under their onslaught. A pause. Then SAM is

raised, spread-eagled, above the black sea of the FORCES.

Strong hands hold him. The maniacal laughter starts up.

SAM is turned in its direction.

CUT to a shot over the top of the mass of robed FIGURES.

Rising from the ruins of the stone columns, the black

cloth thing flaps menacingly towards camera. We can see

the towering filing cabinet skyscrapers of the Storeroom

of Knowledge in the background.

SAM looks terrified. As the thing hovers above SAM in all

its huge twisting awfulness, it slowly begine to unfold

like some deadly flower blooming in stop motion.

SAM freezes as the interior becomes invisible. There in

the billowing blackness is the GIRL. She is beckoning.

But the VOICE is no longer the mysterious feminine voice

of before - it is the voice of the maniacal laughter.

SAM struggles with the restraining hands. He twists and

turns, but to no avail. From the darkness above him

descends the JOLLY GENT looking just like MR HELPMANN) on

his window washer's platform. However he is now dressed as

Father Christmas.

The filing cabinets of the Storeroom of Knowledge dissolve

squares of padding that form the walls of a cell. The

laughter echoes round the cell. SAM sees that MR HELPMANN,

in his wheelchair is watching him. He is dressed as Father

Christmas. They are alone in the cell. SAM scrunches up

into the corner.

HELPMANN holds up a bottle of barley water.

HELPMANN nods.

HELPMANN looks surprised. SAM shuts up.

SAM has gone catatonic.

HELPMANN goes. A GUARD helps him out and then returns with

ANOTHER to help put the restraining bag over SAM.

The bag blacks everything out.

The bag comes off. SAM finds himself strapped into an

Information Retrieval chair. The CAMERA tracks back

frighteningly fast revealing that he chair stands in an

unbelievably vast room. The walls curve up and out of

sight.

The floor doesn't seem to be a floor at all - strange

light undulates beneath. The whole effect is one of total

disorientation and overwhelming size. SAM is desperately

trying to take it in. Next to the chair is a porcelain

tray of evil and frighteningly ambiguous instruments.

Worrysome electrical connections and meters are near at

hand. As the GUARDS leave SAM to take up their positions

near the distant door they hand over documents to the

white-coated INFORMATION RETRIEVAL OFFICER.

They all sign the document which the I.R. OFFICER retains

after giving carbon copies to the GUARDS. The GUARDS then

proceed to the door and take up positions on either side

of it. The I.R. OFFICER heads toward SAM. We can now see

he wears a mask. It is the face of the FORCES OF DARKNESS.

A smiling baby doll face. SAM sits, mesmerized, watching

him approach. Within fifteen or twenty yards of SAM the

I.R. OFFICER comes to an abrupt halt. He seems to sway.

After a moment he turns slightly, hesitantly, giving the

impression that he may return to the door. He looks at the

GUARDS, pauses, straightens himself up, takes a deep

breath and continues again towards SAM, rather more

briskly than before. SAM watches, terrified and

fascinated. The I.R. OFFICER goes to the table which is

covered with evil-looking surgical-type instruments - he

blunders clumsily into it, knocking a couple of them onto

the floor. He picks then up quickly and replaces them.

The I.R. OFFICER reacts to this as if he's been hit in the

solar plexus, and he tries to disguise it by simulating a

coughing fit. He then picks up a nasty looking implement

and advances on SAM.

JACK is very close to SAM, he is shaking. He lifts up his

mask to reveal sweaty face, contorted with fear and anger.

JACK comes at SAM with the horrifying implement.

SAM's eyes widen in terror. From his POV we look up at

JACK approaching. The ceiling above and behind JACK is

suddenly and. loudly penetrated by the Ceiling Hole

Machine, and in an instant without benefit of "fireman's

pole", the commando-like figure of MR TUTTLE gun in hand,

leaps through the hole.

TUTTLE is immediately followed by similar looking MEN with

balaclavas, guerilla-type clothing, and very efficient

guns. JACK is cut down. So are the TWO GUARDS who have

opened the door from the corridor and are shooting into

the room.

TUTTLE raps out into a walkie-talkie

From somewhere near at hand there is a large explosion

which rocks the room. TUTTLE is already unstrapping SAM.

CUT to RESCUERS, with SAM in the middle, fighting their

way in the terrific battle with GUARDS, until they get to

a door leading to the stairs.

CUT to RESCUERS, their members thinning, and SAM, fighting

down flight after flight of stairs with lots of neat-oh

violence and blood and, gunshots and ... falling and

bleeding and -

CUT to the RESCUERS fighting their way to the entrance.

Another group of RESCUERS at the door are providing cover

fire The PORTER sits behind his desk watching the battle

on his bank of monitors.

TUTTLE tosses SAM a dark overcoat to cover his light grey

detainee outfit. Together, the TWO GROUPS burst out

through the door into the large empty forecourt.

The forecourt is suddenly illuminated by huge arc lights.

Machine gun installations open fire. The RESCUERS are

totally exposed.

They are cut down left and right.

Desperately they battle their way across the open space.

Time running out. SAM, knowing the way, leads TUTTLE

towards a shielded spot. Will they make it? As the last

RESCUER is cut down SAM and TUTTLE dive for cover.

KOWBLAMMPOW! A massive explosion. Then another. And

another. SECURITY TROOPS caught unprotected are decimated.

SAM looks up. Christ! The building is being blown to bits.

Certain windows are lit. They spell out MERRY XMAS. With a

final massive haemorrhage the building erupts in a geyser

of masonry, steel, paper and dozens of T.V. consoles and

visual aid apparatus including, in large chunks, MR

HELPMANN's masterpiece. But also tons and tons of paper.

Every file in the building has burst its seams and ejected

its load skywards. The night sky is full of white

rectangular wisps. Ashlike they flutter down over the

city. SAM looks around and can't see TUTTLE anywhere. He

shouts for him. But the remaining TROOPS have spotted SAM

and SAM runs.

SAM runs madly through paper-littered passages

Eluding his pursuers, SAM dives into a crowded, garishly

lit, shopping centre. Once among the protective company of

he mindlessly shopping MOB, SAM slows down and proceeds

casually. The SHOPPERS go about their programmed business

paying no attention to the paperwork swirling about them.

Searching the CROWD, SAM spots TUTTLE making his way

towards him. TUTTLE is having a bit of trouble walking

against the steadily increasing wind. As he proceeds

across an open area a blown piece of paper. catches on his

foot. He tries shaking it off.

It remains firmly stuck. While he is struggling with the

piece of paper another, larger piece catches his other

leg. He begins to lose his temper trying to dislodge the

flying debris. Another hits him and twists around his arm.

Still more paper blows against him. He is having

difficulty staying upright. Twisting this way and that he

tries to free himself, but more and more paper covers him.

He is practically obscured from view. SAM can't believe

what he is seeing. SHOPPERS continue about their business,

apparently unaware of TUTTLE'S terrible plight. Apart from

ONE SHOPPER who loses control of her shopping trolley -

and watches it career down the steps of the shopping

precinct. By now TUTTLE is totally encased in this cocoon

of litter. He is now just a ball of paper writhing about

on the ground. SAM has to do something. He rushes out from

his hiding place and tries to pull the litter off TUTTLE.

The pieces come loose with surprising ease. The wind

carries them away as SAM frantically tears at the pile.

But there is no sign of TUTTLE. Nothing. The last few

pieces of paper flutter away leaving SAM standing there

with a couple of posters in his hands. He realises that he

is suddenly very visible. All the shopping bustle has

stopped. They are all staring at him. SAM spots TROOPS

shouldering their way towards him. He turns tail and

dashes off.

The drawing room door burst open as SAM dashes in. SAM

goes straight through and into the bedroom. The room is

empty of all terrestrial human life forms. A hollow wind

blows the curtains.

The room is in chaos (and there is a hole in the ceiling).

SAM turns and sees a silhouette in the doorway. He rushes

forwards.

But it's MATTHEWS the porter who is at the door watching

SAM running towards him.

SAM grabs MATTHEWS round the neck and shakes him.

SAM comes running around corner. He is suddenly bathed in

a strange blue light. He halts and looks up. There

opposite him is a large blue neon cross above the entrance

to a chapel of dully modernistic design. Holy music from

an electric organ can be heard. SAM rushes up the stops

and through the door.

CUT to SAM slipping into the chapel (in tight spot) and

suddenly being confronted by SPIRO the Maitre D.

SAM, dumbfounded, follows.

CUT to SAM being lead into the middle of the cold, modern

chapel which, possibly for the occasion, has been tarted

up with some red velvet curtains that help make it a bit

theatrical. A large flower-smothered coffin rests on some

sort of raised stand in front of the altar, a VICAR stands

in the pulpit, and a fair sprinkling of PEOPLE sit in

stepped seats on three sides of the room.

The coffin is closed, but a length of bandage has escaped

the lid. Standing amidst the floral tributes is a large,

rather idealized, colour portrait of MRS TERRAIN looking

not so much young as beautiful. Among the MOURNERS are DRS

JAFFE and CHAPMAN and others in their operating gowns.

To enlarge on the scene, we see SHIRLEY T snuffling in her

hanky and a few others chatting amongst themselves, the

VICAR standing in his pulpit waiting to get on with it,

etc. CUT to SAM trying to take all this in, stopping in

the middle of the room. Don't forget DR CHAPMAN sobbing.

In the background the VICAR begins speaking, and we hear

his voice throughout the following action. CUT TO SAM'S

POV ....

..... (CUT to SAM's POV) ... past SPIRO to a section in

the bleachers directly across from the coffin and the

VICAR where a WOMAN (her back to SAM) is surrounded by a

buzzing flock of very handsome and well-dressed YOUNG MEN.

CUT to WOMAN turning, half in flirtatious conversation. It

is SAM's MOTHER, but miraculously another twenty years

younger and ... a parody of SAM's Dream Girl.

But before we can find out what he'll:

CUT to entrance to Chapel as a squad of TROOPS come

crashing in. PEOPLE begin to scatter, screaming. The

TROOPS spot SAM who dashes away from his MOTHER and heads

for a door behind the altar. In his panic he crashes

against the coffin which topples over spilling its

contents ... a hundredweight of offal. SAM covers his

mouth and dashes through the door.

CUT to SAM, really dashing madly, tripping over things,

hurting himself, getting up running.

He is in a maze of machinery. Every way he turns his path

seems blocked by either TROOPS or FIGURES from his dreams.

The walls of the maze become more simplified as he goes

deeper into it. More rectangular, higher. We see a top

shot of the maze with SAM separate from the pursuing

FORCES but they are closing in on him from all sides. The

maze extends as far as we can see. SAM turns left and

right through it, always there is a chance of turnings.

Until ... he rounds a corner and for the first time there

is nowhere to go. The maze leads straight ahead to a dead

end.

At the end of the maze is a great pile of detritus from

the consumer society. Televisions, washing machines, hair

dryers, junk. SAM can do nothing but try to dig through

this pile.

Maybe he can defend himself with something here. He

scrabbles away. Looking back he sees the massed AGENTS,

TROOPS, FORCES OF DARKNESS heading toward him. No escape.

He digs, harder, faster. Junk flies everywhere. He

actually reaches the end wall. Back to it, he turns to

face the foe. But as he moves against the wall his hand

touches something. A door knob. He turns. It's a door. The

knob turns easily. The door swings open. SAM dives through

it.

SAM finds himself in a strange little house empty of

furniture except a few fitted cupboards and a fitted bed

frame. He tries to lock the door behind him but there is

no key. He puts his weight against the door to keep it

shut. From outside there is the general noise of pursuit

but this fades and resolves itself into a fairly quiet

uniform engine-sound. SAM lets go of the door carefully.

He looks around but there is only one window and it is

shuttered. He carefully opens the door a crack and he sees-

SAM'S POV: A rapidly receding street.

JILL's truck, with the house on its back, is driving

dangerously through he streets. It lurches round the

corner.

- The lurch throws SAM to one side. He picks himself up,

and, fighting the centrifugal force, works his way to the

shuttered window which is at the front end of the house,

in the wall opposite the door. SAM undoes the shutters and

finds himself looking at the rear window of JILL's cab. He

sees the back of the DRIVER's head. The DRIVER is wearing

JILL's cap. He sees the back of the DRIVER's cab. He bangs

on the glass of the cab. The DRIVER raises her head so

that the face is visible to SAM in the driving mirror. He

sees that it is JILL, in a flat cap. She smiles at him.

SAM sobs with relief and love.

The lorry, travelling slowly now, approaches then breasts

the rise beyond which lies ... looking more than ever ...

JILL'S VALLEY. We ZOOM towards it through a MIX ...

Through the windscreen we see the dawn coming up ahead.

The reverse shot shows us JILL driving and SAM next to

her. They glance at each other.

The lorry, travelling slowly now, approaches and then

breasts the rise beyond which lies ... A STUNNINGLY

BEAUTIFUL UNTOUCHED VALLEY. We ZOOM towards it through a

MIX ...

Half hidden in the heart of the valley is the truck with

the house on its back. Creepers and wild roses have grown

up over the truck and some of the house. A curl of smoke

rises from a makeshift chimney which has been attached to

one of the walls. A small piece of ground around the truck

has been cleared and made into a pretty garden with a

vegetable plat. There is also a pretty cow, and some

chickens. JILL appears locking like CRUSOE carrying a

basket of eggs.

SAM is in the bed, just waking up. He opens his eyes,

locking calm. Off screen we hear the door opening.

SAM nods his head slightly, on the pillow.

A high shot. Everything in the garden is definitely

lovely. The music tells us. The music swells and the

camera slowly pulls back, and back. It's a happy ending.

And then, in the foreground, TWO HUGE HEADS appear looking

straight at the camera. It is MR HELPMANN and JACK. They

both shake their heads.

CUT to their POV.

Sam is sitting in the IR chair. He is strapped in. His

eyes are open but miles away. His face is wreathed in a

benign and very happy smile.

A wide shot of the room shows us HELPMANN and LINT turn

away and leave. SAM is left alone. He is humming.. The

camera pulls back and back. The Information Retrieval room

with SAM in it floats away into the most beautiful

glorious sky ever.

SAM's humming into a full orchestra, and we hear ......

THE END

