EXT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - PARKING LOT

Andrew's getting out of the car, but then ducks back in to

see Matt lighting a pipe.

Matt turns on the radio, loud.

INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - HALLWAY

Andrew's filming himself putting stuff in his locker, and

does a quick sweep of the crowded school hallway.

A girl suddenly approaches, awkwardly handing Andrew a flyer.

Andrew films the flyer for a moment, brightly colored and

featuring a picture of a smiling Steve Kazinsky, before

something yanks the camera away.

For the first time we see ANDREW Detmer, 17, pale, awkward

and gangly, with long, stringy hair and thin, scraggly beard.

He looks anxious, if not afraid.

WAYNE, 17, big and hateable in his Ed Hardy T-shirt, appears

wrapping his arm roughly around Andrew.

Wayne turns and knocks everything out of Andrew's locker.

Bryce starts to walk away with the camera.

The camera is set down on the ground, and then abruptly

kicked back to Andrew. He picks it up, checking on it.

EXT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - FOOTBALL FIELD

A view from the bleachers as the soccer team practices. The

cheerleaders are practicing too. We cut: a different view,

lower.

The camera's next to Andrew as he's eating, down on the

bench. A CHEERLEADER approaches.

Just don't videotape-              -you know, filming what I do

Andrew turns off the camera.

INT. MATT'S CAR

Matt's driving.   Andrew's filming from the passenger seat.

EXT. DETMER RESIDENCE

Andrew is filming as he walks along towards his house.

The camera pans up to reveal HOWARD and COSTLY, moron

hoodlums, along with several friends, over by a car on the

other side of the road, drinking forties.

Andrew just stands there filming them. Howard hurls his

forty at Andrew, who doesn't move; it shatters very near to

him.

Howard quickly starts crossing the street, and Andrew turns

and runs back towards his house.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM

The camera lays on Andrew's bed again, filming the room.

Andrew is on his laptop at a desk, working.

The door suddenly opens, revealing MR. Adrian DETMER, 40s,

Andrew's father. He doesn't look as white trash as you'd

expect.

Andrew looks up at him, and then goes back to working.

Detmer goes over to Andrew and slaps him out of his chair.

Mr. Detmer leaves, slamming the door on his way out.   Andrew

sits on the floor in silence.

EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - NIGHT

We're in Matt's car, driving on a dark dirt road, past an old

fence and rusted out farm equipment.

We can faintly hear party music.

EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - BARN

Cars are parked outside a big abandoned barn as Matt and

Andrew approach. We see Christmas lights strung up, and

there's clearly a party going on inside the barn. Kids are

milling about outside, too, drinking, fucking around.

Andrew skulks around the party, which is clearly in full

swing. Lots of bad footage of people talking, drinking,

girls dancing sexy, guys joking around. Andrew is silent and

detached, just filming. He sees a girl, CASEY Letter, 16,

filming as well. They shout over the music.

Andrew simply backs away. More footage of the party.

AUSTIN, 18, in an Ed Hardy shirt, comes out of nowhere.   He's

clearly a little drunk.

Austin abruptly throws his beer on Andrew, getting some on

the camera, and then spits on him. Andrew backs up, shocked,

lowering the camera.

EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - EDGE OF THE WOODS

Andrew's out alone in a field now, furiously cleaning the

lens of the camera, obstructing our view. Cut to a few

moments later; the camera now resting in his lap or on the

ground. We can see the barn, the party still going on.

After a few moments, we can faintly hear Andrew crying.

The camera is picked up to reveal STEVE "Kaz" Kazinksy, 17,

approachably handsome and in great shape, with an easygoing,

instantly likeable charisma.

He's a little drunk and giddy.

Steve starts off, but Andrew hesitates.

EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - FIELD

Steve is walking ahead in the field of tall grass, toward

woods. It's rather dark.

The camera goes down for a moment while Andrew futzes with

it. The light clicks on, illuminating Steve.

They've reached the woods, and Steve is climbing over the

remains of a fence. The light bounces around wildly.

They're in the woods now, thick and dizzying. It's near

silent but their feet crushing the Fall leaves on the ground.

Steve walks out ahead.

The camera turns to reveal Matt, standing next to some kind

of craggy hole in the ground, at the base of a hill in the

woods. It's big, but the darkness beyond is impenetrable to

the camera. It looks like a big black spot.

Andrew and Steve are now down with Matt by the hole. Andrew

is keeping the camera fixed squarely on the murky blackness,

nervous.

Andrew takes a tentative step towards the hole.

There's a beat.

Another pause. Andrew moves towards the hole. Even with

Nightvision, it's completely dark in there. A beat.

Ooooh shiiiiit-                   That is so fucking creepy!

Andrew turns the camera back to Matt and Steve.

Matt looks to Steve.

Steve suddenly goes right into the hole, vanishing into the

darkness.

Andrew abruptly goes into the cave.

INT. THE HOLE

It's almost pitch black, but we can hear Andrew breathing.

It's claustrophobic in here. Eerily quiet. The camera

searches around, but the walls are tight in here, and low.

I'm right here.

Steve laughs, and turns, going back into the darkness.

Andrew follows.

Matt's face is suddenly in front of the camera.

Walking. Darkness. The cave is even tighter now. The light

flickers, some kind of electrical disturbance, then goes out

completely We hear Andrew curse, fumbling with it, and the

nightvision mode comes on.

The nightvision is scrambling badly.   All the forms are

distorted and then-

The nightvision is turned off, revealing Matt. They've come

into a larger chamber in the cave, one somehow lit from

within; the boys are bathed in a softly pulsing turquoise

glow.

They speak loudly, clearly talking over something we can't

hear.

Matt forcibly turns the camera, to reveal Steve standing next

to some kind of massive crystalline rock structure growing

from, or maybe embedded in, the wall. Around it, and him,

float wispy little clouds of light, turquoise and beautiful.

Steve is clearly entranced, sweeping his hands through the

light.

We see Matt, now also surrounded by the little aurora

borealis like clouds, touch one; it comes apart in a silent

little explosion of light, beautiful.

A light cloud passes in front of Andrew, and we sees his hand

to extend to touch it. The subsequent little light burst

badly warps the camera, clearly permanent damage.

Andrew is now very near to the crystalline structure; viewed

up close, it's almost arachnid, organic somehow. The light

clouds have turned yellow. Matt is practically inside the

structure, pressing it with his palms.

Matt presses with his palms. There's a low sustained hiss as

the light clouds turn an angry shade of red. A stream of

them is released from beneath the structure. The camera

jerks suddenly, revealing Steve, who's clutching his ears.

Blood has begun to rapidly pour out of his eyes, ears, mouth

and nose, and he buckles forwards; the camera spins wildly

and we see Matt seemingly FLUNG out of the crystalline

structure.

It pulses, and seems to rapidly blossom and spread apart,

revealing a blinding light within which EXPLODES OUTWARD; we

can suddenly hear an OVERWHELMING CHOIR OF VOICES, and the

camera sent rocketing backwards, flipping backwards up the

tunnel-

FROM ANDREW'S SECOND CAMERA.

EXT. MATT'S BACKYARD - AFTERNOON

The camera turns on; from the quality of the picture, it's

immediately evident that this is a newer, better camera.

It's on a tripod, and Matt stands across a well manicured

backyard; his hair is a little different, time has passed.

A baseball comes flying in from behind the camera, nailing

Matt in the face; he drops like a rock.

Steve comes in from off camera to help Matt, laughing; we can

hear Andrew laughing behind the camera, too.

Now it's Steve who stands on the yard.

A baseball comes in from off camera, slower. It comes down

towards Steve, but at the last second makes a bizarre,

impossible course correction, FLIES UP AND HITS STEVE IN THE

FACE.

Matt rushes on, doing a victory lap, one hand holding an ice-

pack to his face. Again, we hear Andrew laughing.

Andrew's out across the yard. He looks a little better; he's

gotten rid of the ridiculous nerd beard, and his hair is a

little better kept. He nods.

In flies the baseball. It abruptly stops in the air, a foot

and a half from Andrew's face. Steve and Matt let out a

cheer, and the camera is yanked off the tripod, taken to show

a closer view of the impossibly suspended baseball and

Andrew.

Andrew smiles, and points to the suspended ball.   A trickle

of blood comes out of his nose.

The camera's on a tripod up on the back porch, filming

Andrew, Steve and Matt standing a triangle. They are playing

catch...no hands. The ball simply flies from guy to guy.

They drop it a few times in some cuts, but shout

encouragement, and are clearly having a good time.

Finally, they get the ball going EXTREMELY fast.   Matt looks

up.

Matt gets nailed in the balls, and drops as Steve and Andrew

rush to him, laughing.

INT. MATT'S KITCHEN

Steve is very intently using his newfound powers to make a

peanut butter and jelly sandwich, knife shakily moving over

bread. The camera is set down on the counter, Matt and

Andrew watching.

Steve has a glob of jelly and a glob of peanut butter

floating freely. They slap together and then down onto the

bread, which slaps closed.

INT. MATT'S ROOM - LATER

Matt's room is covered in band posters, kind of a mess.

Matt's sitting on the floor by a desk, slowly assembling a

LEGO set with his telekinetic abilities. Andrew's filming

from the bed, where he's laying down.

Andrew points at the lego set, and it flies together.

Andrew and Matt are laughing as Steve enters, holding out his

cell phone.

Steve puts his voice-mail on speaker.   SAMANTHA Pezon, 16,

sounds a bit frustrated.

Steve laughs.

INT. STEVE'S CAR - NIGHT

Steve is driving Andrew home.

Steve mulls this over.

There's a long beat.

The two guys drive in silence.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM

It's dark. We can hear shouting from elsewhere in the house;

"useless bitch," "carry your ass long enough," etc. Andrew

reaches over and turns off the camera.

EXT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - FOOTBALL FIELD - BLEACHERS

Matt, Andrew and Steve are eating lunch on the bleachers.

Steve floats up a bunch of chips from his bag, and then rapid

fires them into his mouth.

Matt and Steve look confused.

INT. STEVE'S CAR

Steve is driving, Matt's shotgun, Andrew's filming from the

back.

EXT. WAL-MART

Matt and Steve are walking in, Andrew lagging behind filming.

INT. WAL-MART

The guys are trying to stay out of sight, looking down an

aisle where shoppers stand.

A frumpy woman with a shopping cart suddenly starts pulling

on the cart. It suddenly breaks away from her, and goes

careening down the aisle by itself, her chasing after it. We

can hear the guys cracking up, trying to stay quiet.

Toy aisle. A toddler is looking at teddy bears.

One of the teddy bears suddenly comes to life, waving at the

little boy. The little boy is wowed. The teddy bear suddenly

takes off and flies through the air. Again the stifled

laughter.

Andrew pans up to reveal a woman at the end of the aisle; she

saw everything, and is looking around, wide eyed.

They're by the check out.

There's suddenly a little air ripple in front of the man's

mouth, and he's yanked face first into the gum and candy

rack, which all crashes apart. The guys all crack up and

start running.

EXT. FIELD - SUNSET

Matt sits on the hood of a car.   He and Andrew are flinging

rocks with their powers.

Matt laughs.

INT. MATT'S CAR - AFTERNOON - WAL-MART PARKING LOT

None of the guys are visible.   They're filming a woman park

her car.

The car the woman parked shakily lifts off, and immediately

dips right.

Silence, and we watch as the car gets to about twelve feet in

the air, makes a full 180 degree rotation, and then wobbles

through the air over to a spot several spaces away, and then

sets down, neatly in place.

FUCK YEAH! BOOYAH!              YES! FUCK YES! OH SHIT,

EXT. WAL-MART - PARKING LOT - SHORTLY THEREAFTER

Matt is sitting against the car with a wad of kleenex on his

nose, soaked with blood. Steve is leaning nearby, with a

brown paper napkin.

Andrew holds out said wrapper in front of the camera.

The camera moves around to show the woman returning to the

space where her car was parked. She stops, baffled, and

looks around. We hear the guys stifle laughter.

She notices her car parked up ahead and walks over to it,

looking around. Andrew tries to get a better angle, and she

notices him, and stares.

The woman stares a moment longer, and goes to her car.

INT. MATT'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Matt's driving, Steve's shotgun, Andrew filming from the

back. It's raining.

There's honking from outside.

Matt rolls down the window and gives the signal to pass.

More honking.

They are driving out over a bridge in the woods.

He hands off the camera to Steve; now we see Andrew sitting

in the back seat. Behind him, through the back window, we

can see a pick-up truck, honking, way too close.

Andrew flicks his hand at the truck. The effect is

instantaneous: THE FRONT OF THE TRUCK CAVES IN LIKE IT JUST

HIT A BRICK WALL, WHAM, AND SENDING IT CRASHING OFF THE

BRIDGE, OUT AND DOWN AND INTO THE WATER.

EXT. THE BRIDGE

The camera is being held loosely at Steve's side;

everything's upside-down, and we can't see anything, but can

hear the guys are clearly freaked out.

The camera is shoved to Andrew's chest, and lingers there a

moment before he brings it up to show a view off the bridge;

the truck is already sinking in the water fifteen or so feet

below. We tilt up to see Steve taking off his jacket.

Andrew raises out a hand, trying to telekinetically lift the

car. It rattles, and then Andrew groans in pain.

Steve dives off the side of the bridge.   Andrew films him for

a moment, swimming to the car.

INT. MATT'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Andrew's filming Matt, who looks angry as he drives very

quickly.

EXT. RIVER SIDE ROAD

Matt and Andrew pull up to see Steve dragging the REDNECK

ASSHOLE out of the water. They hurry out of the car.

Steve has the guy on the shore.    He's dazed and bleeding.

Steve just stares directly at Andrew.   Andrew pans to reveal

Matt, on a cell phone.

Later. The cops and an ambulance have arrived. An officer

is talking to Matt, Steve and Andrew; the camera is held low.

The camera shuts off.

EXT. STADIUM PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Matt looks FURIOUS, while Steve just looks uncomfortable and

freaked out. Matt's car is parked nearby.

Steve seems lost for words.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM

It's morning. The camera lays on the bed.     Andrew can be

heard breathing.

The camera moves, and is picked up, following a spider as it

moves across the floor. It crawls up onto the side of the

bed, then onto the sheets. Andrew's finger points at it.

The spider is telekinetically lifted into the air.    It hangs

struggling there for a moment, then becomes rigid.

He spreads his fingers, and the spider abruptly separates

into all of its component parts. They stop moving, hanging

lifeless.

Andrew's home phone rings, and he drops the spider.    Rings

again.

INT. MATT'S CAR - STEVE'S STREET

Andrew's filming Matt from shotgun.

Matt's quiet.

EXT. STEVE'S HOUSE - MORNING

The house is big and nice, somewhat isolated.    Matt is

walking up ahead of Andrew to the door.

Matt stops, and both Matt and Andrew look around.

Steve is atop a power line pole, thirty feet in the air.

Andrew and Matt look up at him from the ground.

Matt hurls himself at the ground, WHAM. Cut, and again,

WHAM. Cut, and this time he flips himself BAM WHAM.

Matt's now holding the camera, showing Andrew.    He checks the

street for cars.

Andrew throws himself forward.   And stops, hanging in mid

air.

Matt moves in for a closer look at floating Andrew, and gives

a glance up at Steve, who's cheering on the telephone pole.

EXT. SKY

At first it's not clear what we're looking at, just blue sky.

Wind is very loud. The camera pans down to reveal we're FIVE

THOUSAND FEET IN THE AIR, in a clearing between two larger

cloudbanks.

The camera pans all the way down to show Andrew's dangling

feet, and below them, the impossibly far drop. We can hear

Andrew laugh.

We can see Steve and Matt, nearby, now wearing winter-coats

and hats to keep warm. They're playing catch with a

football. Steve tosses it to Andrew, who actually goes into

a short dive to catch it. He looks up to see Steve and Matt

distantly cheering and waving their approval.

Steve's holding the camera, filming Andrew attempting a few

fancy moves, but he's a clumsy flier. Matt does a few neater

tricks in some clips.

Matt gives the thumbs up, and Steve laughs.

Steve and Matt are seen flying around, Steve further away,

near a large cloud bank. Matt is using his abilities to

shape cloud fluff into an M. There is a humming, rattling

sound, slightly audible even over the deafening wind.

Neither of the guys can hear him. Steve however stops in the

distance, looking around. He shouts something, inaudible.

Steve pantomimes, pointing at his ear and shrugging.

A BOEING 737 BLOWS OUT OF THE CLOUDBANK BEHIND STEVE.    He's

spun like a top in its wake, and drops like a rock.

Suddenly we're launched downwards, and after a moment, the

camera disconnects from Andrew, and we see him zooming ahead.

The camera, in free-fall, spins wildly, then suddenly it

swims through the air dizzily and lands relatively gently in

some tall grass. Less than a second later, Andrew and Steve

come falling down into the grass and roll roughly, splitting

apart.

They lay there, breathing hard. Andrew sits up, coughing;

his eyes, nose and mouth bleeding. Steve suddenly leaps up.

Steve grabs Andrew, shaking and hugging him.

Matt touches down behind them, frantic.

Steve joy-tackles Matt to the ground.

Andrew, laughing tiredly, rolls over and grabs the camera.

They're all standing in the field; Steve is still wigging

out.

Matt stands, shouting out at the field.

Andrew cheers from behind the camera, and Steve laughs.

EXT. STEVE'S HOUSE - POOL - NIGHT

Steve, Matt and Andrew are sitting around the pool outside of

Steve's house; empty beers are all around. All three are at

least tipsy.

Matt is up.

All three crack up.

Steve immediately starts beatboxing.

Steve and Andrew cheer and Matt takes a bow.

The guys have broken open glowsticks, and Steve is filming as

Andrew and Matt manipulate snakes of the glowing fluid at

each other; it's beautiful.

We cut between three sing alongs; "Shake That" by Nate Dogg

and Eminem (which Andrew protests too, as he doesn't know the

lyrics), "How You Remind Me" by Nickelback, and "Macho Man"

by The Village People.

INT. STEVE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATER

The guys are in that sleepy mode, now. Andrew's filming, but

not really focusing on anything. Matt's sprawled out on a

couch opposite him. Steve's in a chair nearby.

Later. Drowsier. Light's coming from the TV. The camera is

laying haphazardly on Andrew. They're all nearly asleep,

drowsy drunk.

There's a silence.

Beat.   Silence.

EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - THE CLEARING - MORNING

Time has passed; maybe two weeks. It's early. The hole is

clearly caved in; the entire area is slumped downwards.

A POLICE OFFICER appears.

INT. DINER - MORNING

Steve is filming Andrew and Matt across the table.

Matt focuses, and we see his syrup form a Virgin Mary.

Matt telekinetically lifts a spoon and rockets it at the

camera; it plinks off.

Now Matt has the camera, filming Steve.

EXT. ROAD - LATER

The guys are walking along. Andrew's holding the camera

loosely, not really caring, they're chatting, it's chill.

Matt gets a text.

Matt turns and casually rockets off into the sky.

There's a beat, and then Steve laughs.

EXT. PORTLAND - THE ROOF OF THE KOIN CENTER - SUNSET

They're 46 stories up, chillin' with milkshakes.   It's

fucking awesome. The city is beautiful.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - SANDRA DETMER'S ROOM

Sandra's in bed, sicker than ever.

Andrew's camera is down at his side.

INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - AUDITORIUM

At first, it's just a shot off Matt's feet, the camera

pointing down, and we can hear hub-bub all around. It goes

to nightvision for a moment, then over-exposes, then back to

normal.

The camera is levelled, showing a high-school auditorium's

stage. A group of kids are playing screamo music. Cut, a

little later. A girl is singing. Cut. Casey, the girl with

the videoblog from the barn party, is doing hip-hop booty

dancing. She's good. The camera lingers on her.

It's a few minutes later. "Techno-Syndrome" (MORTAL KOMBAT!)

begins to play. There's a beat, and then Steve, in a tuxedo,

rushes out onto stage. The applause is DEAFENING, girls

screaming, etc.

He raises his hands for silence, and then "presents" Andrew,

also in a tuxedo. Mixed reaction from the crowd. Andrew's

carrying a deck of cards; he fumbles them, they spill onto

the floor. Audience laughter; Steve throws up his arms in

exasperation.

Andrew shrugs, and all the cards leap back up into his hands.

There's a beat, and then the audience goes APESHIT.

Andrew is juggling, six balls at once. Steve is drinking a

soda, and offers Andrew the soda. Andrew is annoyed. Steve

pantomimes joy at not having to give up his soda. Andrew

stops juggling, leaving all the balls hanging in the air, and

snatches away Steve's soda.

Steve lunges after him and gets back his soda, only to have

all the balls drop out of the air and hit him. The audience

is LOSING THEIR FREAKING MINDS.

People around Matt are buzzing about how awesome it is.

Andrew is transporting buckets of water across the stage,

spilling water everywhere. Steve is pantomiming anger at the

shoddy job he's doing. Andrew pantomimes "Well, you try."

Steve tries, but trips and falls, sending the contents of the

bucket flying out over the audience-

-only for it to seemingly REWIND back into the bucket!    The

place GOES BERZERK.

Steve and Andrew take their bows to overwhelming cheers,

separately. Andrew bows again, and people freak out. We

hear Matt cheering behind the camera.

INT. MATT'S CAR - NIGHT

Andrew's filming from shotgun.

EXT. HOUSE PARTY

It's a house party, raging. Steve's out on the porch with

his girlfriend SAMANTHA, 16, super hot, of course.

Samantha runs down and embraces Andrew, knocking around the

camera.

We see shots of the house party, which is rocking. People

keep coming up to Andrew and telling him "That was awesome!"

Or "You fucking rock!" Andrew sheepishly acknowledges this.

Finally, a very hot girl with pink hair and a monroe piercing

is talking. This is MONICA, 16. She's a little drunk.

More shots of the party, of Monica talking. She entreats

Andrew to join her on a beer-pong team. A little tipsy,

Andrew agrees, setting down the camera on a couch. It lays

there. SOME GUY picks it up.

Matt snatches away the camera from him.

Matt's walking around with the camera now he films people

dancing, talking, a people taking shots. Casey passes,

filming for her video blog. Matt's camera follows her, but

then goes back to Steve, who's cheering on Andrew and Monica,

who are of course dominating at beer-pong. But they take

shots anyway.

Matt wanders the party; a stoner comes up.

The stoner wanders off.

EXT. HOUSE PARTY - PORCH

Matt turns the camera around to film himself.

The camera spins to reveal her, and then immediately drops to

Matt's side.

Matt fumbles with the camera, turning it off.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM - MORNING

We can hear it raining hard outside.

The camera is laying on its side on the floor, and turns on

when Andrew fumbles with it. There's screaming from

downstairs; long and low, real pain sounds.

Andrew drops the camera and rushes out the door.    The camera

lays on the floor. Time passes.

Mr. Detmer enters, and notices the camera.    He reaches down

and picks it up.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - LIVING ROOM

In the squalid living room of the Detmer residence. The

camera is being held off at an angle by Mr. Detmer, as Andrew

tries to get it back. It moves around a bit, so Andrew and

his father are both on/off screen.

Mr. Detmer hurls the camera directly into Andrew's face.    It

knocks him down and clatters to the floor.

Detmer rushes up to Andrew and slaps him, and again, and

again, and again, and WHAM! Andrew backhands Detmer HARD,

flooring him. Andrew turns and picks up the camera, leveling

it coolly on his father as he tries to stand.

Andrew's arm snakes out and grabs Detmer by his throat,

lifting him easily and slamming him against the wall.

I COULD CRUSH YOU. YOU KNOW     Get- off- let me go- you're

THAT, I CAN FUCKING CRUSH       hurting me-

YOU. I CAN KILL YOU WITHOUT                                      *

EVEN FUCKING TOUCHING YOU.

Andrew turns and flings Mr. Detmer into the sofa, which flips

on the impact. We can hear Andrew's gasping sobs, panicked,

as he turns, runs out of the house, and LAUNCHES INTO THE

AIR.

EXT. THE THUNDERSTORM

Andrew's just below the clouds, massive dark and ominous

above him. It's clearly not safe, rain and wind whipping his

body, lightning crackling inside the clouds. We can hear him

breathing hard.

He touches the bottom of a cloud, and gets a powerful

electric shock, forcing him to back off a tiny bit.

The camera turns, showing Steve, in a rainslicker, flying up

to meet Andrew.

A BLINDING FLASH OF LIGHTNING STRIKES STEVE, BLASTING HIM OUT

OF THE SKY. The boom of thunder is deafening.

For a moment, all we can see is the stormscape, and then we

hear Andrew's rushed, panicked breathing.

EXT. CEMETARY - DAY

It's a gray, dark day. A funeral is in progress; we're

filming from within the mourning party.

A large picture of Steve is on a stand as the priest reads a

eulogy. Andrew's camera movements are rigid again, tight and

confined, back to how they were when we first started.

We see Steve's mother and father. His mother is sobbing.

His father simply looks shellshocked, staring at the casket.

Steve's mother leans on his father, and he pushes her away.

There's Samantha, crying uncontrollably. The camera passes

Matt...

Who's staring directly at us.

Andrew walks along in the cemetary, filming tombstones.

The camera looks up at Matt.    He's keeping his distance.

Silence.

The camera shifts a little.

Matt, very upset, suddenly advances on Andrew, trying to pull

the camera away. He's suddenly shoved backwards; Matt

recovers himself before he falls, staring at Andrew. The

camera hangs limply for a moment.

The camera and Andrew suddenly launch into the air, rocketing

away from Matt.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM

The camera is on Andrew's dresser, near his mirror.   Andrew

suddenly appears, holding a kitchen knife.

Andrew takes the camera, and angles it down at his arm. He

takes the kitchen knife, and presses the tip into the flesh

of his wrist. He drags the blade down hard, all the way to

his elbow...but no cut appears. He then violently jabs

himself several times...but no penetration.

EXT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - FOOTBALL FIELD

Andrew sits alone on the bleachers. The cheerleaders are

practicing. The camera zooms in on Samantha. She sits alone

on the sidelines, watching numbly.

INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - HALLWAY

Andrew is putting his stuff away in his locker. He's

suddenly shoved into the locker roughly. The camera turns,

revealing Wayne walking away.

The camera scans the mostly empty hallway quickly, then goes

back to Wayne, now almost twenty feet away.

One of Andrew's hands flicks out, and Wayne's mouth suddenly

gushes blood. Wayne screams, falling, and is immediately

tended to by other students.

INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - BATHROOM STALL

Andrew has laid out three small bloody objects on the back of

the toilet, and presents each one to the camera one by one.

They're Wayne's bloody teeth.

INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - GUIDANCE COUNSELOR'S OFFICE

Mike FERNANDEZ, 30s, serious but warm, sits across the desk

from Andrew. The concern in his voice is very real.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM

The camera is sitting on the floor. We can hear screaming

from downstairs. Andrew picks up the camera, and goes to the

mirror, filming himself filming. After a beat, he steps out

from behind the camera, leaving it hanging in the air.

He stands looking at himself, and then the camera. The

camera turns to face Andrew. He doesn't look good, but gives

a weak smile.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - MS. DETMER'S ROOM

We're peeking in through the door. We can see Sandra Detmer

writhing around in agony in the bed, moaning in pain. She

lets out a long scream, and then seems to notice us watching.

Sandra, her eyes closed in pain, is lifted and rolled onto

her side.

The door closes.

EXT. JUNKYARD - NIGHT

The junkyard is filled with junked cars, metal garbage, old

equipment. The camera sits awkwardly on the hood of a

wrecked car as Andrew fidgets to get it mounted. The area is

lit by lights from the main building, not too far away, but

you can tell he's not supposed to be in here.

Andrew moves out in front of the camera. He telekinetically

pulls an old car forward, and lifts it easily. He moves it

left, moves it right, rolls it, sets it back down.

Andrew is sitting, resting, tired.   He speaks directly to the

camera.

Andrew's back out with the car. He lifts it again, then

makes a quick "squeezing" motion. As he does this, the car

violently compresses down to the size of a basketball.

Andrew flings the ball of metal into a scrap pile, which

collapses loudly.

Andrew falls down onto his butt, a little exhausted, but as

he gets up he is abruptly attacked by a guard dog, which

bites him twice before he's able to fling it off.

The dog recovers, and rushes Andrew, who raises a hand,

blasting the dog across the yard, killing it instantly.

Andrew turns and looks at the camera, and it turns off.

FROM CASEY'S CAMERA.

Everything is crisper, cleaner, brighter.   Higher resolution.

INT. CASEY'S HOUSE - BATHROOM

We're looking at the door to a bathroom, only a crack open.

It's pushed open, revealing Matt, shirtless, brushing his

teeth.

Casey runs up and hugs Matt from behind, startling him.

INT. CASEY'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Matt is cooking; he's got four different things on the stove.

UGHHHHHH-                        Come on.

Matt smiles.

Matt snatches the camera away from her, turning it to reveal

that she's topless; Casey has already covered up with her

arms.

They're at the breakfast table. Matt's eating, and Casey,

filming, is talking between bites.

INT. CASEY'S HOUSE - CASEY'S BEDROOM

Matt's asleep in bed on a different day.   Casey's filming

from next to him.

EXT. CASEY'S HOUSE - BACKYARD

Matt runs out ahead of the camera, and does a little shuck-

and-jive boxer dance.

Casey raises a paintball gun out ahead of the camera. She

fires. Matt's arm whips out, impossible fast. He holds up

the caught paintball.

Casey fires several more shots, Matt catches them

effortlessly, then hurls them all into the air. Mid-air,

they all pop, some of the paint landing on the camera and

Casey.

INT. CASEY'S HOUSE - CASEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

It's dark; the camera turns on, then the light, revealing

Matt, groggy, half awake.

Matt advances on Casey, and the camera falls off to the side

of the bed. We can hear her giggling, which is abruptly

muffled by kissing.

EXT. CEMETARY - DAY

The camera is aimed at Steve's tombstone. There are still

flowers and memorials spread around. Some are rotting. The

camera moves around a little, then back to Steve's tombstone.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM - NIGHT

Screaming from Sandra's bedroom. The heater rattling. The

TV from downstairs. There's a knock on the window. The

camera is picked up, to reveal Matt floating outside, looking

around nervously.

After a moment, Andrew opens the window.

Matt stands fidgeting, clearly uncomfortable, as Andrew films

him.

Andrew is silent.

Why?   Your life's great-

Dude, don't be like that, okay-

You don't need to worry about me.

I'm stronger than ever now. I can

lift a whole car by myself. I

could fucking crush this entire

house, I'm fine.

That doesn't- that actually sounds

like the opposite of fine. Andrew,

come on, let's get out of here,

your room's a mess, it smells like

a Denny's bathroom in here.

So what?

You're my cousin. You're my friend-

it's my responsibility to take care

of you.

I think you should go. I have to

pick up my mom's medication.

...Are you going to break the

rules?

We're too strong now, Andrew.

We're too strong for that. If you

did that, you know I'd have to-

You'd have to what. You were

always the weakest. You couldn't

do shit to me.

...Andrew-

I'm not gonna break your stupid

fucking rules, just fuck off and

stay out of my life.

Matt stands staring at Andrew. The camera fidgets

uncomfortably. Matt shakes his head, and the camera follows

him as he goes to the window, gives Andrew one last look, and

then rockets off into the sky.

The camera sits in silence, pointed at the window.

INT. PHARMACY

The camera approaches the counter.

Silence.

INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM - LATER

Andrew is filming out his window, watching his father leave.

His stereo plays David Bowie. Once his dad's car is gone,

Andrew sets down the camera on the dresser opposite the

mirror, and leaves the room.

Time passes, and Andrew reappears, now dragging a crate. He

opens it, and pulls out his father's fireman's uniform. We

do short-space time cuts as he takes out the jacket, looks at

it, and turns it inside out, so that the metallic fireproof

inner lining is exposed.

"Ziggy Stardust" comes on Andrew's stereo.

Andrew, wearing the jacket, looks at himself in the mirror,

his back to the camera. He reaches down, and picks something

up, looking at it, then pulls it over his head.

It's a gas mask.

He stands there staring at the surreal, hard edged, faceless

figure in the mirror. Looks right. Looks left. Adjusts the

mask.

Then turns and whips out his hand; the camera is abruptly

yanked across the room.

EXT. RUN-DOWN HOUSE - SUNSET

It's a run-down house in Andrew's neighborhood. The

streetlights and the setting sun give everything light in

yellow orange haze.

Howard, Costly, and some other thugs are chilling on the

porch, laughing loudly, smoking a blunt. They clearly

haven't noticed Andrew, who's filming from out by the street.

He reaches down, and picks up a rock, then hurls it at the

house. It flies up and breaks a window. Costly, Howard and

the thugs immediately mobilize, swearing and posturing as

they rapidly surround Andrew.

He doesn't react.

Howard starts towards Andrew, who raises a hand out in front

of the camera. He makes the "gun sign."

Howard starts to pull a gun from the back of his pants.

Howard's body abruptly FOLDS BACKWARDS with a sickly loud

chorus of cracks, and then is FLUNG ASIDE. The thugs,

shocked, don't have a second to react before Andrew

telekinetically BLOWS ONE OF THEM BACKWARDS, sending him

smashing headfirst through the windshield of his car.

Costly and the remaining thug start running, and the

remaining thugs legs suddenly flip up out from under him,

breaking, bending and twisting like a rag doll, before he's

propelled face first into the ground, WHAM.

Andrew launches into the air, coming down just in front of

Costly, who skids to a halt.

Costly is shoved to the street and ground back and forth as

though under the weight of a giant thumb, leaving a

glistening smear of clothes, blood and skin, before he falls

across the curb.

We can hear the men screaming and groaning in agony, but

other than that, the night is silent.

Andrew raises a hand, and all of their wallets and loose

money lift away from them, flying to him. There's a beat,

and then Andrew launches into the air.

EXT. RADIOTOWER - 80 FEET UP - TWILIGHT

Andrew sits under one of the red airplane spotter lights on

one of the strut supports. The camera sits nearby, watching

the expressionless figure as it counts the money.

There's a beat and he hangs his head. We can hear muffled

noises of frustration from under the mask. Something that

sounds like a low, angry scream.

Very suddenly, he dives off the tower. A second later, the

camera is yanked after him, zooming out into freefall.

EXT. GAS STATION

Andrew, holding the camera, touches down just outside the gas

station. He waits a beat, and then starts to walk towards

it. We transition to...

FROM GAS STATION SECURITY CAMERAS.

Black and white, a slightly grainy feed, with no audio.

We watch from the camera by the pumps as the bizarre figure

in the coat and the gas mask, holding the camera out in front

of it, strides past people pumping gas, into the station

store.

INT. GAS STATION

The wall mounted security camera shows us the whole store.

Andrew enters, turning to the clerk behind the register, who

says something, looking concerned. He's suddenly blown out

of frame.

After a beat, the register rips itself free from the counter,

and floats over to Andrew.

Andrew turns and walks out, the register floating with him;

as he does, a second clerk rushes out, panicked, yelling. He

goes behind the counter, and grabs a shotgun.

EXT. GAS STATION

Andrew exits the gas station, as does the clerk, who yells,

raising the shotgun.

Andrew whips an arm out towards him, and the clerk fires as

he's hit by a wave of energy. The shotgun blast goes wild,

striking the stacked tanks of propane next to the garage.

The effect is instantaneous; a blinding white flash of fire

envelopes the clerk and floors Andrew, the camera we look

through jerking awkwardly, the feed breaking down.

FROM ANDREW'S SECOND CAMERA.

The camera lays awkwardly on its side, the distorted audio

from its damaged microphone SUDDEN AND PIERCING.

It's been flung a good deal away from Andrew, who lays

motionless, burning.

The clerk is dead, and a nearby gas station customer is

horribly injured and screaming. His gas pump lays on the

ground, pumping out gas onto the asphalt.

Andrew slowly shifts, unable to move properly, and forces

himself to roll over. The fire on his body touches the fire

on the asphalt, and spreads lightning fast to the gas pump.

The resulting explosion engulfs the entire station.

The camera is spun violently out into the street-

FROM SECURE ROOM VIDEO FEED

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM

The camera is color, with crackly, strange, somewhat

distorted audio. The image is a little blown out.

Andrew on a bed. His entire right side is absolutely

scorched; the flesh looks like bloody, cracked paper,

blackened and red. The parts of him that are bandaged are

already soaked through with blood.

He is barely breathing, hooked up to various machines.

Andrew is not going anywhere anytime soon. This is ensured

by the handcuff on his left wrist.

The machines beep. Andrew doesn't move. The door opens, and

Mr. Detmer enters, speaking to a POLICE DETECTIVE on the

other side of the door.

The officer closes the door, and Mr. Detmer goes and sits

down in a chair next to the bed. He sits there staring at

Andrew, clearly horrified and upset, and buries his head in

his hands. We SPEED UP THE RECORDING, and Detmer just sits

like that. After five minutes of speed up, we slow down.

Andrew is comatose.

Andrew is comatose.

There's a beat, and then Detmer suddenly slaps Andrew's burnt

shoulder. Andrew flinches badly, and his pulse speeds up on

the monitor.

Andrew no longer flinches, but the slaps leave red, bleeding

molten welts. Detmer stands up, clearly upset, and takes a

quick pace forward and back.

Detmer goes to slap Andrew again, and Andrew's arm jerks up.

Mr. Detmer floats is telekinetically lifted into the air.

He hangs screaming and struggling for a moment, then becomes

rigid.

Andrew spreads his fingers, and his father abruptly separates

into all of his component parts.

They stop moving, hanging lifeless, then drop to the ground

in a bloody mess.

Andrew's eyes open, revealing black-red eightball

hemorrhages, and he seizes badly, letting out a scream of

agony, and then another, tearing at his IV.

The police detectives rush the room, reacting with horror to

the gore that was Andrew's father. They barely have time to

scream out when Andrew snaps his cuff free of the bed, and

lets out AN ENORMOUS CONCUSSIVE BLAST, blowing apart

everything in the room including the camera.

FROM CASEY'S CAMERA.

INT. CASEY'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM

All of Casey's family is present, along with lots of little

kids. Everyone's gathered around Casey's little brother,

who's being presented with a birthday cake. Matt looks

happy.

Everyone let's out a cheer, including Casey, but then she

notices Matt abruptly duck out. She follows him to the

bathroom...

...where he's holding his nose, which is bleeding badly.

In the background, we can hear the house phone ring.    Then

cell phones.

Matt pushes past her, running upstairs. Casey starts to

follow, but then stops, lowering the camera.

Casey's filming the big screen TV, which is showing the news.

We get a helicopter view from over downtown Portland,

everything seems okay, and then something streaks by,

crashing headlong into the side of a building.

The impact is like a wrecking ball, office furniture blowing

out into the air along with glass, steel and concrete, WHAM.

The camera turns as Matt rushes down the stairs, now in his

winter parka, his nose plugged with kleenex. We hear another

of those jarring, shattering impacts, and the camera goes

back to the TV, revealing the big MADE IN OREGON sign in Old

Town toppling down into the street.

EXT. CASEY'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Casey is chasing Matt across the lawn to her car, her voice

filling with panic, the camera being held offhanded now,

unimportant.

We hear helicopters pass low overhead.

Matt gets in the car and starts it.   Casey's breaking down,

openly crying now.

INT. CASEY'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Casey's sitting shotgun as Matt drives. His face is

unreadable. They're driving on the I-5. More helicopters.

Downtown Portland is visible now, as are some fires.

Casey is quietly crying, the camera held loosely in her lap.

We hear and see the lights of ambulances and police cars as

they zoom past, but Casey keeps the camera on Matt.

They're getting into downtown now. We can hear sirens.

Casey is filming out the window, everything looks normal,

until there's a loud crash; then Casey swishes the camera to

reveal that a police car, its siren still moaning, has landed

on top of a newstand, apparently dropped from the sky.

There's an explosion from nearby and shattered glass rains

down onto the car. Matt slams on the brakes, looking up

through the windshield, searching the sky.

There's a beat, and then a police officer abruptly appears on

the passenger's side, next to Casey.

The police officer is yanked upwards, disappearing from sight

for a moment before coming crashing down thirty feet away.

Casey screams.

The car SUDDENLY ROCKETS INTO THE AIR, straight up, flipping

end over end, past the tops of the buildings, and then comes

to a stop, hanging at about two hundred feet. Casey's

breathing is painfully short and sharp. Matt stares out into

the night sky.

He flicks on the brights. There's Andrew, in his hospital

gown, floating a dozen feet out, his flesh charred and

twisted, his body clearly wracked with agonizing pain.

A news helicopter circles past out of sight, and for a

moment, Andrew is framed in the chopper's spotlight.

His eyes flash to the car.

The windshield is TORN OUT, and seconds later MATT IS RIPPED

OUT OF THE CAR AS THOUGH YANKED BY A GIANT HOOK, taking his

seatbelt with him.

The car goes into freefall, no longer important to Andrew,

plummeting down, down, down. Casey's screams are barely

audible over the rushing of the wind as the buildings rush

past outside, her camera frozen in place as she plummets to

her death.

And then suddenly, so suddenly it's completely disorienting,

the side of the car bursts apart and we're flying, blurred

views of buildings, the sky, the side of some jeans...

Stillness. Casey's camera is pointed down, showing her

adidas...and Matt's high-tops.

Matt's feet suddenly go out of frame.

NOTE: In the following sequence, everything is seen in

glimpses and glances, never lingering too long on one thing.

Much of what happens should be seen through implication,

rather than direct effect.

Everything happens very fast, and none of the cameras can

fully keep track.

FROM SEVERAL HELICAMS.

The feed is crisp and clear, but without the satellite audio,

meaning no narration from the reporter. There are several

chopper's flying at different distances from the action, and

we intercut as necessary.

EXT. DOWNTOWN PORTLAND

The news chopper at first shows Casey's destroyed car laying

in the street, then pans back up to show Andrew, who's

floating hunched over, vomiting.

Matt flies up behind him, and tries to help him, but Andrew

shoves him away. We're too far away to hear anything that's

said.

Matt tries again, and Andrew yells something. Matt, clearly

upset, replies. Andrew, talking fast and jerky, gestures

towards his burns. Matt tries to reply several times, but

Andrew isn't hearing it. Matt smiles nervously at the

destruction, and says something gently.

Andrew replies, and whatever is said here, it causes a

radical shift in Matt's demeanor. He's no longer concerned;

he seems repulsed. Andrew says more, clearly SCREAMING at

Matt.

Matt seems to beg Andrew for something and Andrew relents.

Matt continues, more forcefully, and then notices something

to his right. A BUS SMASHES HIM OUT OF THE AIR, SWATTING HIM

LIKE A BUG INTO THE SIDE OF AN APARTMENT COMPLEX.

Andrew suddenly turns, flailing an arm at us in the chopper;

a mailbox comes CRASHING UP INTO THE CAMERA.

FROM MICHAEL ERNESTO'S CAMERA.

MICHAEL ERNESTO is, along with several other people from his

building, out on his roof. He watches in horror as the

helicopter Andrew hit goes out of control, falling out of

frame.

Moments later, we hear the explosion as it crashes.

Andrew comes toppling down out of the sky like a wounded

bird, crashing into the roof. He vomits again, mostly bile;

everyone around him is in shock, frozen, as he screams in

pain and rolls over.

He's bleeding badly from the nose and ears.

We get some shots from other people's cameras, video phones,

etc on the roof. Some people scream and try to run past

Andrew, and he blasts them off the roof like bowling pins,

which leads to more screaming.

Andrew stands shakily, looking directly at Michael Ernesto.

Andrew starts to raise an arm, when he's suddenly NAILED BY

MATT, blasting by at well over eighty miles an hour.

FROM BANK SECURITY CAMERA.

The inside of the bank is quiet and peaceful, when MATT AND

ANDREW COME CRASHING THROUGH THE ROOF.

FROM POLICE CAR DASHBOARD CAM.

The police car rockets up the street, but has to screech to a

halt when MATT AND ANDREW COME EXPLODING OUT OF THE FRONT OF

THE BANK.

The two of them brawl in the street for a moment; it's not

impressive martial arts, or even super powered, just two guys

fighting for their lives. Matt gets the upperhand, decking

Andrew and driving him to the ground, and suddenly the cop

car (our POV), lifts off.

WE GO FLYING INTO MATT, crashing out the camera as he turns

and creates a telekinetic wall.

FROM CALA PRENTI'S CAMERA.

CALA, filming from her apartment window, watches in shock and

horror as the police car, carried by its momentum, is sent

FLIPPING INTO THE AIR, and we glimpse it as it passes her

window, lights still flaring.

Her sister rushes up, looking out the window.

Andrew and Matt come BLASTING UP THROUGH THE FLOOR IN THE

KITCHEN OFF TO THE RIGHT, AND THEN OUT THROUGH THE CEILING.

FROM KPR-PORTLAND'S HELICAM.

The two boys come smashing up through the roof of the

apartment building. Andrew flies low, and Matt gives chase.

Andrew turns, beginning to telekinetically lob everything at

street level at Matt; traffic lights, parking meters, trees,

etc...

...But Matt's too good a flyer. What he doesn't block he

simply dips and weaves around. Andrew, clearly still woozy,

is distracted and smashes into a street-light, wiping out on

the asphalt.

Matt slowly lands nearby. The camera zooms in and hits them

both with a spotlight, causing Matt to shield his eyes and

look up, scared, as Andrew struggles to stand.

We get a good look at the toll this is taking on him; Matt's

face is a crimson mask of blood from his nose, eyes, mouth

and ears. He's limping badly, his clothes torn, visibly

covered with injuries. He looks like he's been in a car

wreck.

He approaches Andrew, talking again, more fervently. Andrew

just shakes his head, falling repeatedly as he tries to

stand, like a wounded dog.

Two cop cars skid to a halt nearby, the officers unloading

and taking cover. One of them advances on Matt and Andrew,

gun raised. Matt goes out in front of Andrew, protective,

pleading, raising his hands.

The cop is clearly panicked. He fires a shot.    Matt's arm

whips out, impossible fast; he buckles and screams in pain,

holding his hand, which is gushing blood.

Matt falls, screaming, and Andrew stands.

officers backwards.

Andrew approaches Matt, screaming and looking absolutely

terrifying. Matt turns and ROCKETS OFF INTO THE SKY, Andrew

following a second later, tackling Matt out of the air.

FROM KPR-PORTLAND'S LIVE-ON-THE-SCENE.

We're at street level in downtown, people are absolutely

everywhere, wandering out into the street, baffled, scared

and looking for answers. A FIELD REPORTER fixes herself,

preparing to speak.

There's a rushing, screeching sound from around the corner.

The camera jerks, and moves towards the corner, the cameraman

man running to see what the sound is.

Something around the corner explodes, and Matt comes flying

past overhead, slightly on fire, before Andrew comes lunging

at Matt, catching him, twisting out and over the camera man,

SLAMMING HIM INTO THE SIDE OF A SKYSCRAPER ON THE STREET.

Andrew lifts Matt up high into the air, scraping him against

buildings on either side of the street, bouncing like a

pinball until-

FROM ABC 5'S HELICAM.

-Matt struggles, and there's a visible ripple in the air; a

massive concussive burst, sending both of them rocketing

downwards as though shot out of a cannon.

They strike the massive bronze statue of "Portlandia," a

trident wielding demigoddess, in front of the Michael Graves

building, uprooting it from its pedestal before crashing to

the ground.

Matt's body accordions brutally when he lands, and he flops

down at a broken, dead angle. Andrew lands nearly as badly,

lays still for a moment, and then begins twitching and

screaming when the chopper's spotlight hits him.

FROM MICHAEL GRAVES' BUILDING EXTERIOR SECURITY CAMERA

The statue of Portlandia lays awkwardly in the street.

Andrew writhes. Matt is motionless, blood pooling around

him, his back broken.

FROM POLICE DASHBOARD CAMS, HELICOPTER CAMERAS, HANDHELDS

FROM WINDOWS, EVERYTHING.

A bunch of squad cars and emergency units converge around the

front of the Michael Graves building and downed statue. Matt

and Andrew's bodies are painted by spotlights as police and

news helicopters hang overhead.

Police unload en-mass, guns out, immediately forming a

perimeter and pushing in. We're with them as they approach;

the mood is of barely controlled panic, officers shouting

back and forth to each other.

Andrew and Matt are polka-dotted by red-laser sight dots.

Andrew suddenly stands up, and several officers fire; the

bullets spark off an invisible barrier in front of him, and

he shakily raises both hands.

The all of the police officers, firemen and paramedics are

telekinetically lifted into the air.

They hang struggling for a moment, and then all of their

limbs go rigid. We've seen this before.

Andrew screams, and then...It all happens in under two

seconds:

Matt swings an arm, blinding fast; the triton wielding arm of

Portlandia bends jaggedly, bringing down the pitchfork hard,

first through Andrew, then into the pavement.

Andrew stands impaled, a look of shock on his face, and then

Matt flails up his hand; the bullet lodged inside fires out,

striking Andrew in the head, killing him instantly.

All of the floating people drop, dazed.

Matt collapses.   After a moment, the police advance.

FROM CLEAN ROOM CAMS.

The clean room cams are incredibly hi-def, crisp and clear,

with all manner of data and time codes scrolling all over the

top and bottom of the screens.

Matt lays on the floor of a perfectly white room. At the far

end is a blackened out two way mirror. There's a camera on

the inside of this too, and we can see resolute men in suits

reflected on the inner glass, watching with unreadable

expressions.

There is a chair and a table, but he's clearly fallen out of

the chair. It's maybe an hour after the scene in front of

the Michael Graves building, and he's received no medical

attention.

To this end, Matt is suffering from, among other things,

massive blood-loss, multiple broken bones, dozens of gashes

and cuts, presumed internal bleeding, and a broken back.

He can barely move, sliding around on the floor in his own

blood as he dies, watched by the compassionless eyes of the

cameras.

He is barely coherent, screeching in agony.

Two men in contamination suits enter the room, wielding some

kind of radiation sensors. They go over to Matt, scanning

him.

The men ignore him as Matt makes some gasping sounds, his

eyes going wide.

Matt entirely stops moving.   He lays there, not breathing,

completely still.

And then suddenly the two men are flung backwards, as is the

table and the chair. There are a series of grotesque popping

and snapping sounds from Matt's body, and he jerks, and

writhes, pushing himself up onto his hands and knees.

The security cams track and zoom, and as Matt stands, we

realize a startling truth: his cuts are closing themselves.

His broken bones have already molded back into place. His

bruises are shrinking away to nothing.

The blacked out glass suddenly shatters, and falls out of its

frame, revealing a shocked, frightened room of high ranking

military personnel, along with several men in civilian

clothes.

Matt stares at them.   They stare back at him.

Matt raises a finger to his lips, and the general trails off.

Matt smile weakly for a moment, then stops.

FROM INTERNATIONAL NEWS BROADCASTS.

We see a variety of international reporters covering a

breaking story, but only see little clips of each, in

multiple languages. Behind them are various shots of a huge

hydroelectric dam in South Korea.

FROM KIM HAI-SU'S CAMERA.

INT. KIM HAI-SU'S HOUSE

Kim Hai-Su, 17, is behind the camera filming his father, 40s,

as his father hurries to gather his things into a duffle.

Kim Hai-Su's younger brother, 8, wanders into the room,

crying loudly, and Kim's father screams at him to put down

the camera.

They're in the car, driving fast through town. All around we

can see people panicking, and we see two cars collide on the

road up ahead.

They pull up onto an on-ramp, and are immediately trapped

into gridlocked, dead-end traffic. Kim Hai-Su's father

begins shrieking, and banging on the dashboard, which

triggers his younger brother crying again. Kim shouts to

calm down.

Kim is climbing out of the car; people all around are getting

out of their cars, hopelessly trapped. Someone screams, and

Kim turns to reveal an enormous dam several miles away.

Rubble is falling off the side of an gigantic crack, which

splits further. Kim yells in fear. The crack widens, an

enormous tidal gush of water bursts through, gushing down the

side of the hills into the valley.

Kim's father embraces him, and they have a brief exchange,

when suddenly there's the sound of a sonic boom overhead.

All around them people EXPLODE into cheers. It's not fear,

but rather a kind of frantic ovation. The camera sweeps up,

panning the empty blue sky excitedly, finally coming to rest

on

Matt Garrety.

Looking fucking great as he floats above the freeway. He

pantomimes "yeah, bring it on, cheer louder!" This gets the

intended response, and he pumps a fist shouting "FUCK YEAH

KOREA!"

He turns, pretending to notice the oncoming flood for the

first time, mouths "Oh shit!" Points at the flood casually

as it closes in: "I should deal with this." Another huge

ovation, and Matt smiles widely nods his head "yeahhhhhh!"

and turns.

There's a sonic boom as he goes from zero to mach 4 in less

than a second, rattling the cars on the freeway, disappearing

into the distance over the flood.

After a moment, the impossibly huge onrush of water seems to

stop, slowing and freezing in place, and then...SLOWLY BEGINS

TO REWIND TOWARDS THE DAM.

The camera jerks around wildly as the crowd goes insane,

embracing, kissing, screaming, jumping on their cars. Kim's

father has collapsed into tears of joy next to the car, and

Kim himself is hooting and hollering from the bottom of his

lungs.

The camera comes up to show his little brother, who is going

positively ape-shit on the hood of their car, jumping up and

down, screaming, smiling...

An unearthly, angelic, vibrating chorus of voices starts to

rise, rise, singing and we-

