EXT. BEACH - PACIFIC ISLAND - MED. SHOT - DAY

Backgrounded by palm trees and rolling surf, an American

army radar operator sits at his huge instrument, intently

tracking a target. Without interrupting this, he speaks with

tense excitement into a telephone transmitter strapped to

his chest. (It is 8:00 a.m.)

(In this and the subsequent scenes, music and cutting build

to an exciting crescendo).

EXT. FIELD - HONG KONG - MED. SHOT - DAY

A group of British soldiers, in shorts and tropical gear,

are gathered tensely around a piece of radar equipment, which

is tracking a target. The radar operator says something to

another soldier, who turns and speaks excitedly into a field

telephone. (It is 5:00 a.m.)

INT. INDIAN RADIO STATION - NIGHT

The microphone bears the word CALCUTTA. An Indian announcer,

his expression one of excitement and terror, jabbers into

the mike in a native tongue. A clock on the wall indicates

that it is 2:26

EXT. RUSSIAN BOMBER IN FLIGHT - (STOCK) - NIGHT

The plane is identified by a red star on the fuselage.

INT. RUSSIAN BOMBER - NIGHT

The radioman is tracking an object on his radar scope. He

points it out excitedly to the pilot. The pilot adjusts his

microphone and starts making a report back to his base in

Russian.

EXT. FRENCH VILLAGE - STREET CORNER - MED. CLOSE SHOT -

NIGHT

A group of French farmers is collected around a radio,

listening wide-eyed to the keyed-up voice which is telling

them, in French, of a strange object that has been seen in

the sky. They exchange uneasy glances. One old man crosses

himself.

SPLIT SCREEN SHOT

RIGHT SECTION OF SCREEN SHOWS INT. AMERICAN RADIO STATION -

DAY

A breathless American radio reporter is speaking into his

mike, but we can't hear what he's saying. On the wall behind

him is a clock which reads 3:32.

LEFT SECTION OF SCREEN SHOWS INT. BRITISH RADIO STATION -

NIGHT

A clock shows the time to be 8:32. The British announcer

tries to maintain his traditional BBC calm, but finds it

almost impossible to control his excitement.

This announcer keeps talking, but his voice fades out, and

now we hear the words the American announcer is saying...

INT. NEW YORK TAXI - DRIVER AND FARE  DAY

The driver and his fare are listening intently to the radio,

as we hear the voice of another radio reporter.

EXT. SUBURBAN GAS STATION

The attendant, who is filling a car with gas, leans around

to hear the car's radio, oblivious to the fact that the car's

tank is overflowing.

Music builds to a climax and ends.

INT. WASHINGTON RADIO STATION

EXT. LINCOLN MEMORIAL - LONG SHOT (STOCK)

A small crowd of tourists is climbing the steps to the

columned entrance.

EXT. WASHINGTON MONUMENT - LONG SHOT (STOCK)

Under this shot a barely audible, distant hum is heard. It

grows in volume so imperceptibly in this and the next two

shots that we are unconscious of it.

EXT. JEFFERSON MEMORIAL - LONG SHOT (STOCK)

EXT. THE MALL - LONG SHOT

Crowds are strolling on the Mall and across the well-kept

lawns in front of the Smithsonian Institution with the

leisurely, meandering quality that distinguishes sight-seers.

MED. SHOT

Including several small groups of people moving toward the

Smithsonian. Their attention is attracted as the hum off

scene becomes a roar. The sound is unearthly in its intensity

and almost unbearable in its swiftly increasing volume. The

people stop in their tracks and look up in the sky in terror.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Several people on the steps of the Smithsonian have turned

to look. There is cold, frozen fear in their eyes. The awful

sound keeps increasing in volume.

CLOSE SHOT

A man, following the progress of a huge object in the sky

with his eyes. He is held terror-stricken.

LONG SHOT INTO SKY (SERSEN SHOT)

A giant shape, still at some distance, is approaching the

earth at incredible speed.

LONG SHOT ON GROUND

A group of people run wildly across a large expanse of lawn.

A huge shadow cast from above onto the grass seems to be

pursing them.

LONG SHOT INTO SKY (SERSEN SHOT)

The great shape is considerably nearer now.

CLOSE SHOT

Of a woman, thoroughly shaken, held immobile by what she

sees and hears.

LONG SHOT

People scatter madly in all directions as the huge spaceship

comes in for a landing on a smooth, grassy area. The

tremendous roar of its motors is suddenly cut off and the

great ship settles gently to a perfect landing.

MED. SHOT - THE SHIP

The gleaming surface of the ship shows no break of any kind --

no windows, no ports, not even the outline of a hatch. It is

a fearsome, terrifying object, giving no evidence of its

source or its intention.

LONG SHOT - (FROM PARALLEL)

Shooting down on a section of lawn, showing the varying

reactions of people to the landing. Some are still running

madly away; others, singly and in little groups, stand as

though rooted, staring at the ship from a respectful distance.

CLOSE SHOT - MAN

As he stares at the ship with fascination and horror. He'd

like to run but he can't. His mouth twitches and he emits a

nervous little laugh.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

A woman is holding a two-year-old child by the hand as she

watches the ship, awe-struck. Several people run past them.

Suddenly the woman grabs up the child with a little sob,

turns and runs away.

MED. SHOT

A middle-aged man runs up to a group of several people,

pointing wildly toward the ship and yelling irrationally:

He runs off toward another group as we--

MONTAGE

A series of short DISSOLVES showing:

1. A man dashing up to a crowded Washington street corner

shouting wildly and gesticulating in the direction from which

he came.

2. Policemen piling into squad cars, which roar out of their

garage.

3. Soldiers rushing out of a barracks at Fort Myer, with

rifles and side arms, to form up on their company street.

4. Newspaper presses rolling at high speed.

5. Newscasters chattering excitedly into their microphones.

6. A large telephone switchboard with the girls in a frenzy

of activity as they try to handle the calls pouring in.

EXT. BASEBALL STADIUM - LONG SHOT

The players are standing on the field in the crowded stadium,

but the game has been interrupted and everyone is listening

to the voice on the loudspeaker system. (Actual stock shot

would be coverage of some dedication or ceremonial.)

INT. PENTAGON OFFICE - CLOSE SHOT

A Brigadier General speaks in clipped tones into the

telephone. There are a couple of other officers in the room.

INT. U.S. SENATE OR HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (STOCK)

A shot, if one is available, of either House listening raptly

as an announcement of great import is read by the Chair.

INT. OFFICE - CLOSE SHOT

A distinguished-looking government official speaks into the

phone with a sense of subdued urgency.

INT. RADIO AND TELEVISION STUDIO - MED. SHOT

A nationally known news commentator -- for purposes of this

script let's say Drew Pearson -- is seated before a radio

mike. He is also being photographed by TV cameras. In a wall

near him is a TV screen which shows what is going out on the

air. During the ensuing speech, a man comes in a hands him a

sheaf of news bulletins.

CLOSE SHOT - PEARSON

ANOTHER ANGLE

CAMERA PANS to and DOLLIES IN on the TV screen in the wall.

On the screen is a shot of the space ship.

OUR CAMERAL HOLDS on the TV screen. The cuts that follow are

inside the frame of the screen:

EXT. THE MALL - MED. SHOT

Two platoons of infantry soldiers surround the ship, their

rifles at the ready.

MED. SHOT

showing two machine guns, two Sherman tanks and two 75MM

guns. The gun crews are posted for action and all weapons

are trained on the space ship.

MED. SHOT - POLICE CORDON

Cops are holding back a section of a large crowd, some

distance away from the ship. The people are wide-eyed and

tense with excitement.

SERIES OF INDIVIDUAL CUTS

1. Civilians in the crowd, their eyes and nerves taut with

suspense.

2. A young soldier, who grips his rifle and moistens his

lips nervously, his eyes never leaving the ship.

3. A tank commander blinks from the tension of staring at an

unmoving object.

4. The last cut is of the ship itself.

CLOSE SHOT - PEARSON

as he interrupts himself excitedly, his attention riveted on

the TV screen.

EXT. THE MALL - MED. LONG SHOT - DAY

We are at the actual location now, not looking at TV. We see

the ship surrounded by soldiers, two medium tanks, two

artillery pieces, and a couple of machine guns. Some distance

away is a suggestion of the crowd of civilians, held back by

police. Prominent in the scene are newsreel and television

cameras. OUR CAMERA MOVES IN to MED. SHOT. As it does so, we

see a couple of metal objects rising slowly from the top of

the ship. One, which is an oddly-designed coil of wire, slides

up and revolves slowly. The other is a section of vented

pipe with a convex cap on it.

REVERSE ANGLE

on the soldiers, their eyes glued to this first sign of

activity from the ship. They shift uneasily, gripping their

rifles more firmly.

MED. SHOT - THE SHIP

After a long, tense moment, a ramp appears silently out of

the side of the ship and slides down to the ground. There is

an audible gasp as a man appears at the top of the ramp. He

looks around at the crowd with cool and imperturbable dignity.

This is KLAATU. He is completely human in appearance. The

only unearthly thing about him is his clothing. He wears a

tunic that is very good looking, but at the same time

thoroughly comfortable and practical. On his head is a metal

helmet that obscures most of his face. (It would be impossible

to identify him later.) The design of this helmet gives the

impression that it is more a formal headdress than for

protection. Klaatu is above all an impressive man -- a man

of tremendous dignity and presence. He has the tolerant

superiority that comes with absolute knowledge.

INDIVIDUAL REACTION CUTS

of soldiers, people in the crowd, and policemen. The newsreel

and TV men are busy at their cameras.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

After an impressive moment, he raises his arms in the

universal gesture of neutrality. Then he speaks, in perfect

English, his voice amplified as though through an enunciator.

Klaatu walks slowly down the ramp toward the soldiers. As he

does so, he draws from inside his tunic a strange looking

object, longish and tubular. It might be a a telescope -- or

it might be some strange kind of weapon.

MED. SHOT

shooting from the side, showing Klaatu advancing slowly toward

the line of soldiers. He holds out the mysterious object in

front of him in a gesture that is actually one of offering

but could be misinterpreted as menacing. There is a growing,

uneasy rumble of muttering among the soldiers as Klaatu

advances. They are clearly frightened of what he may do.

CLOSE SHOT - PLATOON LEADER

A young second lieutenant, standing in front of his platoon.

As Klaatu advances, the lieutenant unslings his carbine.

MED. SHOT

Klaatu starts toward the platoon leader, raising the object

he holds toward the man, trying to make clear his intentions.

Misinterpreting this as a menacing gesture, the platoon leader

raises his carbine to his shoulder.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

of one of the tank commanders in the turret of his tank. He

is watching Klaatu advancing toward the platoon leader and

he has drawn his pistol. Convinced that the lieutenant is in

jeopardy, the tank commander aims at Klaatu and fires.

MED. SHOT

as Klaatu falls to the ground wounded. The object he was

holding has dropped from his hand and smashed. The soldiers

start to gather around Klaatu excitedly when suddenly there

appears in the entrance to the space ship a huge robot. There

is a gasp of amazement from the crowd and the solders draw

back at sight of him. The robot is ten feet tall, is made in

the almost-perfect image of a man. He is to be played by an

actor and his flesh appears to be made of a greenish metal.

His eyes flash as though lighted internally. His perfectly-

fashioned, muscular body is covered only with a loincloth.

This is GORT.

There are cries of amazement as Gort walks slowly ponderously,

down the ramp to the ground. As he does so, the ramp closes

behind him. Gort's face is, and always remains, utterly

expressionless. He stops to look at Klaatu, lying on the

ground. Then he looks around at the soldiers, the tanks and

guns. All the guns have been traversing to follow him.

CLOSE SHOT - GORT

From inside him there comes an ominous crackling sound, as

though power were being generated within him. His eyes flash

toward the tank from which Klaatu was shot.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - TANK

There is a great metallic clatter and the Sherman tank is

suddenly reduced to a pile of junk metal, its parts completely

disintegrated. Only a piece of tank track and twisted gun

barrel emerge from the heap on the ground to identify what

had been there. The tank's crew has remained unharmed.

CLOSE SHOT - GORT

The crackling sound continues as his eyes start to sweep in

a semicircle taking in all the troops.

MED. SHOT - THE TROOPS

SHOOTING FROM BEHIND Gort, with the back of his head in f.g.,

CAMERA PANS to follow Gort's sweeping gaze. In a growing

crash and clatter of metal, every weapon in sight is

destroyed. The two machine guns are little heaps of junk.

The 75's are larger heaps. The second tank, like the first,

is a three-foot pile of scrap. Rifles have dropped from the

soldier's hands and lie on the ground as little mounds of

wood and metal. None of the men has been harmed, but their

faces show the utter terror of what they have experienced.

ANOTHER ANGLE - THE TROOPS

as they react to the full shock of what has happened. Most

of them stand rooted to the ground. Several laugh

hysterically. A few break and run wildly.

MED. SHOT - CROWD OF CIVILIANS

Sudden pandemonium breaks out. Utterly terrified by what

they have witnessed, the crowd becomes a wild, milling,

screaming mob, concerned only with escape.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT

He is walking slowly, deliberately, menacingly toward the

tank commander who fired on Klaatu. Standing by the debris

of his tank, the man is immobilized with terror. The robot

starts to reach out to grab him.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

lying on the ground. He speaks to Gort sharply, in a strange

language.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT

He pauses obediently in the act of reaching out for the tank

commander. Dropping his arms, he stands motionless and remains

that way.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

He has raised himself to a sitting position on the ground,

his wounded shoulder giving him considerable pain. The two

platoon leaders come into scene hesitantly, badly shaken by

the awesome demonstration of power they have seen. They are

uncertain as to what they should do. The platoon leader eyes

the smashed object on the ground curiously and turns

questioningly to Klaatu. With great dignity, Klaatu picks up

the broken object, which we see well for the first time. It

is a delicately-made tubular telescope, badly smashed. On it

are indications of small electronic gadgets.

Klaatu lets the object drop with a shrug of mild exasperation.

The two lieutenants exchange a helpless look of bewilderment.

Then Klaatu raises himself to his feet painfully, holding

his wounded shoulder. As he does so, a colonel and a captain

come into scene.

The three junior officers exchange ineffectual glances and

look to the colonel, who thinks for a moment before making

his decision.

INT. SITTING ROOM - WALTER REED HOSPITAL - NIGHT

There is a door to the corridor and a door to Klaatu's room.

In the small sitting room, talking in tones of hushed concern,

is a group of men. There's a Major General, a likable man

with a chest full of ribbons. There are also a Colonel in

command of the hospital, a high-ranking police officer, a

couple of medical officers and two civilians. The conversation

is interrupted by the entrance from Klaatu's room of a Medical

Corps Major, followed by an Army Nurse.

The door to the corridor opens and a worried young Captain

enters.

The Colonel turns, in deference, to the General.

Harley appears in the doorway, a brief case under his arm.

He's a dignified, intelligent member of the White House

secretariat. He proceeds uninterruptedly into the room,

nodding cordially to the General.

Harley proceeds in businesslike fashion to the door. He knocks

and then enters.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - FULL SHOT

as Harley enters, closing the door behind him. Klaatu no

longer wears his helmet and we see his face clearly for the

first time. Even sitting up in bed, with his shoulder strapped

in bandages, he is a figure of great authority. His face

reflects inner dignity and assurance. Harley, who is a

hardened diplomatist, can't help being impressed by his

present assignment and a little awed by Klaatu. Harley

obviously has been sent by the President to find out what he

can. Klaatu's eyes study him, cool, penetrating, reserved.

Somewhat relieved, Harley seats himself. He speaks with a

half smile, hoping to ease the tension.

Harley glances at him quickly to be sure he's not joking.

He's not.

Harley reacts, as his wildest assumptions are so blandly

corroborated.

Harley smiles. Then his mind reverts to the seriousness of

the situation and he speaks gravely.

Harley is thoroughly shaken. The tremendous force and power

implicit in Klaatus's manner preclude the possibility of

argument.

Growing a little impatient with such nonsense, Klaatu eyes

him evenly, speaks with Jovian authority.

The eyes of the two men meet for a long, silent moment. Then

Harley rises quietly.

He turns and goes out.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

He stares after Harley for a moment, puzzled by this strange

and apparently unreasoning world he has come to. He shakes

his head in thoughtful, tolerant bewilderment.

EXT. SPACE SHIP - LONG SHOT - NIGHT

Searchlights have lighted up up the eerie shapes of the space

ship and Gort. A circle of soldiers guard the area, while a

crew of men can be seen working around the ship.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT SHIP

A Master Sergeant of Engineers, dressed in fatigues, is

inspecting the side of the ship carefully. He has an acetylene

torch in his had and a welding helmet over his face. The

Major General, previously seen in the hospital sitting room,

enters and speaks to the Sergeant.

A man named Carlson, a civilian metallurgical expert, comes

into scene. The General nods to him.

THREE SHOT  GENERAL, CARLSON AND SERGEANT

The two men exchange an uneasy glance, then turn to look at

the ship.

INT. SITTING ROOM  WALTER REED HOSPITAL

Two Medical Corps officers, a Captain and a Major are

interestedly studying a series of X-ray films.

The door to Klaatu's rooms opens and Major White appears.

He's the man who attended Klaatu the day before. He closes

the door behind him and stands motionless facing the other

two, his face wearing a blank expression.

As he starts out the door to the corridor, he passes Mr.

Harley, who is on his way in, carrying his ever-present brief

case. Harley is accompanied by an enlisted M.P.

Harley goes to the door of Klaatu's room, a businesslike

expression on his face. He knocks on the door, then enters.

The M.P. remains in the sitting room.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - FULL SHOT - DAY

as Harley enters. Klaatu is up out of bed, walking around in

a Medical Corps robe and pajamas. He appears to be completely

recovered.

Harley extends a sheaf of cables for Klaatu's inspection,

but he ignores them. Klaatu has listened to this recital,

first incredulously, then with mounting indignation. Conscious

of his quiet, Olympian wrath, Harley continues uncomfortably.

Reluctantly Harley has picked up his hat and brief case. He

finds Klaatu staring out the window.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

As he looks out the window thoughtfully. What he sees has

given him an idea.

MED. SHOT - HOSPITAL GROUNDS

shooting down, from Klaatu's viewpoint, at people strolling

about the hospital grounds. Most of them are civilian

visitors, but there is a sprinkling of nurses and ambulatory

patients.

FULL SHOT - HOSPITAL ROOM

As Klaatu turns back to Harley, he speaks thoughtfully,

incisively.

Harley has paused near the door, a little embarrassed by

Klaatu's level gaze.

With a polite nod, he goes out. Klaatu stares after him as

he realizes that he is in effect a prisoner. He shakes his

head slowly, thoughtfully. The ways of this planet are strange

indeed.

INT. SITTING ROOM - MED CLOSE SHOT - AT DOOR

Harley has paused to watch as the M.P. takes out a key and

inserts it in the lock of Klaatu's door.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

As he hears the click of the lock, he turns toward the door.

Realizing they've locked him in, he smiles with tolerant

amusement.

INT. HOSPITAL SITTING ROOM - MED CLOSE SHOT - NIGHT

In the dim light of one lamp, the door to the corridor opens

and a nurse enters carrying a tray of medication. She is

accompanied by the same M.P. as previously seen. The nurse

pauses as the M.P. takes out a key and inserts it in the

lock of Klaatu's door. To his surprise he finds that the

door is not locked. He exchanges a glance with the nurse,

then pulls the door open and hurries inside.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM

as the M.P. crosses the unlighted room toward the bed. The

only light cones from the open door to the sitting room. The

M.P.'s eyes go wide as he looks at the bed. It is unmade and

unoccupied. Terrified, the M.P. turns to the nurse, who is

standing in the doorway.

M.P.  He's gone!

The M.P. dashes out of the room, through the doorway past

the nurse. She turns to follow him as we--

MONTAGE - NIGHT

A series of short DISSOLVES, showing:

1. The M.P. excitedly reporting Klaatu's disappearance to

the Officer of the Day.

2. The hospital guard detail hurrying out of the guardhouse

to form up in front of the Sergeant of the guard.

3. A high-level military conference gathered at a table,

discussing the matter with great concern.

4. A street corner newsstand, with people eagerly grabbing

papers. The headline reads: "MAN FROM MARS" ESCAPES FROM

ARMY HOSPITAL!

5. Radio announcers chattering excitedly into their

microphones

6. A series of close-ups of people listening to the radio.

Their faces reveal their awestruck terror.

7. A terrified mother drags her two children in from the

street through the front door, slams the door and bolts it.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - MED. CLOSE SHOT - NIGHT

CAMERA is on the back of a man dressed in a business suit,

who is walking along the sidewalk of a dimly lighted, almost

deserted, middle-class street. He carries a suitcase and he

glances idly at the drab-looking stone facades of the old

two-story houses. As he passes, from the open windows of the

houses come the voices of radio announcers. We get a sentence

or two from one house and then, as the man and our CAMERA

pass on, this voice fades and another is picked up. We get

the impression that everyone is glued to his radio.

--these fantastic descriptions of the creature are denounced

as rumor by police Chief Walter Baxter. He is not eight feet

tall, as reported -- nor does he have tentacles in place of

arms--

--there's no denying that there is a monster at large --

that we are dealing with forces beyond our knowledge and

power. The public is urged to take ordinary precautions and

to remain calm, as we await further developments--

--three separate reports of people who claim to have seen

the "space man" in the past hour. One from Des Moines, Iowa;

one from a village in northern Florida; and one from Chicago.

CAMERA OVERTAKES the man as he pauses under the light of a

street lamp, and reveals that it is Klaatu. He has stopped

to look at something out of scene.

CLOSE SHOT

from Klaatu's viewpoint, of a sign on one of the houses,

reading: ROOM FOR RENT

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

He seems to hesitate, debating a plan he has in mind. He

raises his right arm to scratch his head thoughtfully, and

notices for the first time a small tag, or ticket, attached

to the inside of the right forearm of the coat he is wearing.

Puzzled, he pulls off the ticket and looks at it.

INSERT - TICKET

It is the sort of tag a cleaning establishment attaches to

clothing. Printed on it is the legend: CAPITOL DRY CLEANING

SERVICE. Scrawled in a penciled hand is the notation: Dr.

Carpenter, Bldg. A - Walter Reed Hospital. Cl. & pr. $1.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

He smiles wryly at this reminder of where he got the suit,

and he destroys the ticket. He glances down at the suitcase

beside him.

CLOSE SHOT - SUITCASE

It bears the initials L.M.C. Klaatu's hand comes into scene

and lifts up the suitcase. CAMERA HOLDS as Klaatu carries

the bag toward the house and mounts the stone steps to the

entrance.

INT. BOARDINGHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

There 's no light in the room except what splashes in from

the hall. Gathered around a television set are five adults

and a little boy, their faces eerie in the reflected light

from the screen. The room is done in average boardinghouse

style -- antimacassars and all. The attention of the people

is riveted on the television screen, where a newscaster is

reading a bulletin.

FULL SHOT

The landlady, a stern-faced woman of middle age, named MRS.

CROCKETT, rises nervously and crosses to the television set.

She snaps off the set sharply.

TWO SHOT

BOBBY BENSON, a bright-eyed, eleven-year-old, is seated beside

his mother, HELEN BENSON, an attractive girl of thirty.

Disappointed that the set has been turned off, Bobby's roving

eye has fallen on something in the doorway to the hall...

Wide-eyed, he nudges his mother and points.

FULL SHOT

including the doorway to the hall. Silhouetted motionless

against the light from the hall is the figure of a man. All

eyes follow Hobby's pointed finger, and there is a stifled

gasp as they are startled out of their preoccupation. One of

the men turns on the lights and Klaatu is revealed standing

calmly in the doorway. There is a shocked silence for a

moment, then Mrs. Crockett speaks.

There is a noticeable letdown in the general tension, during

which Booby has been studying Klaatu, his imagination working

overtime.

Helen has stepped forward to make Bobby desist.

Mrs. Crockett reverts to her role as landlady. She likes to

think of her house as a home.

There are polite noddings and how-do-you-do's. Mrs. Crockett

is satisfied that she's established a cozy atmosphere.

She leads the way toward the hall and Klaatu starts to follow,

picking up his suitcase, when he is intercepted by Bobby.

INT. HALLWAY

as Mrs. Crockett leads the way up the stairs.

INT. BOARDINGHOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY

Five of the boarders -- Mr. and Mrs. Barley, Mr. Krull, Helen

Benson and Klaatu - are finishing their Sunday morning

breakfast. Mrs. Barley is a middle-class Helen Hokinson lady,

form and unrelenting. Her husband is a born complainer. Mr.

Krull is a shriveled little accountant, precise and finicky.

As they finish their coffee, all except Helen are immersed

in the Sunday papers. Helen seems preoccupied with her own

thoughts. From a portable radio on the table comes Gabriel

Heater's voice.

INSERT - NEWSPAPER PAGE IN MRS. BARLEY'S HANDS

It is a full page layout, in the style of the American Weekly,

showing a demented artist's conception of a mass invasion of

space ships. Weird-looking creatures are slaughtering Earth

people with ray guns. The caption at the top of the image

reads: "Are We Long For This World?" (Gabriel Heater's voice

continues uninterruptedly over this and the next two scenes.)

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

He is reading his paper with considerable interest.

INSERT - NEWSPAPER STORY

The third-page story reads: SAVANT CALLS MEETING TO STUDY

SPACE SHIP. Professor Jacob Barnhardt, world-famous scientist

and Nobel Prize winner, has invited fellow scientists from

all over the world to meet with him in Washington and study

the recently landed "Space Ship."

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

His face is thoughtful as he finishes reading. This story

seems to impress and interest him. Then suddenly he finds

his attention caught at what the Radio Voice is saying.

Klaatu has a reaction of affronted dignity at this monstrously

distasteful idea.

GROUP SHOT

AS THE RADIO VOICE CONTINUES:

During the above, Mrs. Barley has turned to her husband in

sharp annoyance.

Mr. Barley reaches out and snaps off the radio.

Klaatu pauses for a moment, then recites pleasantly.

Mrs. Crockett enters and speaks to Helen.

She rises and goes out.

INT. BOARDINGHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - MED. CLOSE SHOT

as Helen crosses the room to greet TOM STEVENS. He's a

personable young man with a breezy manner and considerable

charm. There is between them an easy air of Intimacy.

Tom kisses her.

Helen and Tom turn in surprise.

THREE SHOT

including Klaatu, who has wandered in from the dining room,

unnoticed by Tom and Helen. Klaatu continues, with an air of

wanting to be helpful without wanting to interfere.

The two men shake hand's and exchange how-do-you-do's. Then

Klaatu turns back to Helen.

Helen is debating the matter in her mind, concerned about

leaving Bobby with a comparative stranger, but tempted because

of her favorable impression of Klaatu.

He turns, with a little smile, and starts out of the room.

Helen, still not quite decided, turns to Tom with a

questioning look. Tom nods.

DISSOLVE T0:

INT. LINCOLN MEMORIAL - FULL SHOT - DAY (STOCK)

The great seated, brooding figure of Lincoln is at the far

end of the impressive main hall. A few tourists are moving

about the place.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY

They are in the south hall, on the wall of which is inscribed

the Gettysburg Address. They stand silently, side by side,

reading the inscription.

INSERT - GETTYSBURG ADDRESS (STOCK)

Featuring the last part of the Address. It reads: "--and

that government of the people, by the people, for the people,

shall not perish from the earth."

TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY

Bobby is impressed by the depth and sincerity of Klaatu's

tribute, but a little confused by his air of having discovered

Lincoln. Hobby watches Klaatu with a puzzled expression,

then follows as Klaatu moves off slowly.

EXT. LINCOLN MEMORIAL - MED. CLOSE SHOT - DAY

shooting against one of the huge fluted columns as Klaatu

and Bobby come out of the building. Deeply preoccupied, Klaatu

speaks with impatient urgency.

Bobby looks up at him in bewilderment. After a moment Klaatu

speaks slowly, thoughtfully.

EXT. THE MALL - LONG SHOT - SPACE SHIP AND GORT - DAY

A crew of Army engineers is in process of erecting a temporary

structure such as a large Quonset hut or B29 hanger to enclose

the space ship and Gort. The walls are partially up and

already have concealed part of the ship. The area is roped

off and there are Army guards to keep the sightseers back.

There is a crowd of people behind the ropes, watching. CAMERA

MOVES IN to reveal the backs of Bobby and Klaatu.

TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY

Bobby is studying the ship and Gort eagerly, his imagination

thoroughly aroused. Klaatu is watching the men at work with

mild, quiet amusement.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT

from Bobby's viewpoint.

TWO SHOT - BOBBY AND KLAATU

Bobby's eyes are wide with awe as he watches the giant robot.

Bobby's attention shifts to the ship.

MED. SHOT - SPACE SHIP

From Bobby's viewpoint.

TWO SHOT - B0BBY AND KLAATU

MED. CLOSE SHOT KLAATU AND BOBBY

shooting from a side angle to include a couple of men who

are listening to Klaatu's conversation. They are nudging

each other, amused at the way this man is pretending to

explain things to the little boy.

Klaatu has noticed the two men, who have edged a little closer

to listen. He is not perturbed by them, but he lowers his

voice a bit.

Klaatu interrupts himself as he realizes that he may be going

too far. The two men have moved closer, listening and

grinning. One of them whispers to the other behind the back

of his hand. Then the man realizes that Klaatu has stopped

speaking and is looking at him.

The two men burst out laughing and move off together. Bobby,

who has missed the point of this by-play, looks at Klaatu,

then after the men. As they move out of scene they laugh

loudly at the little boy's confusion. Klaatu takes Bobby's

hand to lead him away from the roped-off area.

TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY

CAMERA FOLLOWS them as they move away through the crowd.

As they do so, several newsboys are working their way through

the crowd with newly arrived extras. The boys are calling

out the extras: "Police under fire!" "Army put in charge!"

"Space man still at large!" etc. People are eagerly buying

the papers. Klaatu and Booby watch this as they pass through

the crowd.

CLOSE SHOT - EXTRA

In newsboy's hand. The headline reads: SPACE MAN ELUDES POLICE

ARMY PUT IN CHARGE.

CLOSE SHOT - ANOTHER EXTRA

In another newsboy's hand. This headline reads: DISTRICT

UNDER MARTIAL LAW. CONGRESS ACTS AS POLICE CHIEF REIGNS.

TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY

as they move on away from the excited crowd of people.

Klaatu's reaction has been one of mild curiosity. Bobby looks

up at him.

This explanation misses Bobby by several light years. He

glances up at Klaatu blankly.

Pulled out of his reverie, Klaatu glances down at Bobby and

smiles apologetically. Bobby grins back at him. Then, as

they walk on a few more steps, Klaatu stops and speaks

thoughtfully.

Bobby stares up at him and his face breaks into a broad

admiring grin.

EXT. BARNHARDT'S HOUSE - MED. SHOT - DAY

The house is an unimposing old-fashioned structure, shouldered

on either side by similar one-family dwellings. There is a

flight of stone steps leading up to the entrance and a large

porch across the front of the house. Klaatu and Bobby walk

into scene and pause, Klaatu glances at Bobby and Bobby nods

toward the house. They move on up the steps to the entrance.

MED. CHOOSE SHOT - AT FRONT DOOR

Bobby, all eagerness and excitement, presses the bell. They

wait a moment and there is no answer.

Bobby wanders down the porch and looks into a window.

Fascinated by what he sees, he gestures to Klaatu.

After a glance at the front door, Klaatu joins Bobby at the

window and looks in.

FULL SHOT - BARNHARDT'S STUDY

SHOOTING through the window, over the heads of Klaatu and

Bobby. The room is more of a workroom than a study. It is in

comfortably shabby disarray, with papers and books everywhere.

There's a battered old desk and a day bed. One wall is solid

bookshelves and on the other two are blackboards covered

with a fantastic array of complex equations, graphs and

diagrams.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

His attention has been caught by one of the blackboards and

he studies it with great interest and curiosity.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - SECTION OF BLACKBOARD

It is covered with a particularly complicated series of

equations in a chalky scrawl, involving angles of vector,

Keplerian ellipses, etc. The final equations are unsolved;

they have no answers after the "equals" sign. Across are

little printed signs tacked to the blackboard reading: "Don't

erase!" and "Don't touch!"

TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY

Bewildered, Bobby looks from the blackboard up at Klaatu.

Still studying the blackboard, Klaatu is shaking his head

and clucking his tonsure as one might at the attempts of a

child to solve a problem in arithmetic.

Bobby moves over to a pair of French doors beyond the window

and tries to peer in through the curtained doors. He absently

tries the doors and finds them locked. Then he turns away

with a disappointed but philosophical shrug.

As Bobby moves away from the doors dejectedly, Klaatu puts

his hand on the knob.

CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY

He's watching Klaatu and his eyes widen at what he sees.

CHOOSE SHOT - KLAATU

He has opened the door and is standing in the doorway, his

hand, still on the knob. He is smiling at Bobby with secret

amusement. He's got an idea.

Klaatu disappears into the study. Amazed, Bobby follows.

INT. BARNHARDT'S STUDY

Bobby watches as Klaatu walks to the blackboard and picks up

a piece of chalk. As though correcting a schoolboy's work,

he makes large check marks at several points in each equation.

EXT. PORCH - BARNHARDT'S HOUSE

An efficient-looking middle-aged woman is mounting the steps

to the entrance, getting her front door key out of her purse,

when her eye falls on the French doors, which are standing

ajar. Puzzled, she starts down the porch toward the doors.

This woman is Barnhardt's secretary and her name is HILDA.

Bobby is watching as Klaatu writes across the blackboard in

a bold hand: Differentiate the equation ( ).

Klaatu underlines this comment with a sharp stroke, when a

stern voice is heard off screen.

FULL SHOT

as Klaatu and Bobby turn in surprise. Standing in the open

French doors is Hilda, eyeing them with stern suspicion.

With a polite nod he goes out the French doors, followed by

Bobby. Hilda eyes the door for a moment, then glances down

at the paper in her hand, disturbed and puzzled by this

stranger. Her glance wanders to the blackboard and she picks

up an eraser, debating whether to erase Klaatu's corrections.

At that moment the French door opens and Klaatu sticks his

head in. Startled, Hilda drops the eraser.

And he disappears, leaving Hilda to glare after him in

impotent rage. Deciding that this man is either a crackpot

or a menace, she goes to the telephone on the desk and starts

dialing a number.

EXT. BARNHARDT'S HOUSE - MED. SHOT

as Klaatu and Bobby come down the steps and turn into the

sidewalk. They are talking and laughing together, but we

can't hear their conversation. CAMERA PANS with them as they

move on up the sidewalk, revealing two kids playing hopscotch.

Klaatu watches, fascinated, as he walks by. Then, having

passed the kids, he tries the one-footed, then two-footed

hop that characterizes the game.

INT. BARNHARDT'S STUDY

Hilda is talking on the phone.

EXT. ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY - LONG SHOT - DAY

Bobby and Klaatu come out of a wooded path into a section of

the cemetery where the myriad crosses seem to reach into

infinity. They pause for a moment, then Bobby leads the way

through one of the rows.

EXT. ARLINGTON CEMETERY - CLOSE SHOT

in one of the many rows are crosses that extend beyond CAMERA

RANGE. CAMERA MOVES IN on one of the crosses. It bears the

name LT. ROBERT BENSON.

TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND B0BBY

as they come into scene and look down at the grave.

Klaatu's glance roves out thoughtfully to the infinite rows

of crosses, and his eyes are sad as they return to Bobby.

EXT. ARLINGTON CEMETERY - MED. SHOT - DAY

Klaatu and Bobby are approaching a bench beside a pathway

overhung with trees. Bobby leads the way to the bench and

they sit down. Klaatu's eyes stray out to the myriad crosses.

Bobby looks at him, puzzled and impressed by this

incomprehensible notion.

His eyes are drawn subconsciously out to the rows of crosses.

Then he turns back to Klaatu with a slow-dawning look of

curiosity, and Klaatu deliberately changes the subject.

After a moment Bobby's expression changes and he breaks into

a broad grin.

Bobby gives him a look of amazement, then grins, assuming

Klaatu was kidding and simply hasn't any money.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU'S HAND

Sparkling in his palm are eight or ten cut diamonds of various

sizes.

TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY

The boy is staring at the stones in wide-eyed amazement.

The boy studies Klaatu's face to see if he's kidding.

Realizing that he's not, Bobby's face takes on a childishly

shrewd expression -- as though he were about to trade a

jackknife for an ocean liner.

The boy takes out two dollar bills and offers them almost

challengingly. Klaatu takes the bills and hands Bobby two

good-sized Diamonds. They study their new acquisitions with

interest. Bobby looks up from his diamonds to steal a guilty

glance at Klaatu.

EXT. BOARDINGHOUSE STREET - MED. SHOT - NIGHT

Shooting toward the curb as a police prowl car drives up and

stops in front of the boardinghouse. A Detective in

plainclothes gets out and gestures to the uniformed Driver

to pull up the street a way and wait. The Driver nods and

the car moves off as the Detective crosses the sidewalk to

the boardinghouse.

EXT. BOARDINGHOUSE - MED. CLOSE SHOT

As the Detective mounts the steps he glances through a window

into the living room. Klaatu can be seen reading to Bobby,

who is perched happily on the arm of Klaatu's chair. The

Detective moves to the front door ant rings the bell. There

is the sound of running feet and in a moment the door is

opened and Bobby appears.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - BOARDINGHOUSE

The Detective steps inside and Bobby closes the door, as

Klaatu appears from the living room.

EXT. BOARDINGHOUSE STREET - MED. SHOT - NIGHT

An inexpensive convertible -- a 1948 Ford, or Chevrolet --

drives up and stops in front of the house. Helen and Tom are

in it.

INT. CONVERTABLE - TW0 SHOT - HELEN AND TOM

You get the feeling that Helen and Ton have spent a very

enjoyable day together and are reluctant to say goodnight.

Tom puts his arm around her and kisses her.

With a smile and, a quick kiss, Helen gets out of the car.

MED. SHOT

as Helen turns and hurries across the sidewalk to the house.

In the entrance she turns and waves to Tom. He waves back

and drives off slowly. Helen lets herself in with her key.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL - BOARDINGHOUSE

The Detective is putting on his hat and preparing to leave

with Klaatu as Helen enters. There is a moment of awkwardness

and confusion as she glances, puzzled, at the Detective.

Bobby runs to her and greets her excitedly.

Klaatu is uneasy but tries not to show it as he smiles in

greeting and introduces the Detective.

Helen glances quickly at the Detective, then at Klaatu,

surprised and troubled. She turns to Bobby to cover her

confusion.

As Klaatu nods and prepares to follow him, Bobby speaks to

Klaatu.

Klaatu and the Detective nod to Helen and they go out. Helen

watches the door close with real concern, wondering why the

police want Klaatu and hoping he hasn't done anything wrong.

Still disturbed, she turns to lead Bobby upstairs.

This satisfies him for the moment -- even though it doesn't

satisfy Helen. He is climbing the stairs beside her.

INT. POLICE STATION - FULL SHOT - NIGHT

The place is crowded and there is a feeling of feverish but

well-ordered activity. Unidentified people who have been

picked up in the search for the space man are being screened

by the police. They are all men -- all between forty and

sixty years old -- and they are from all walks of life. A

series of desks have been arranged in a row, with signs over

them reading IDENTIFICATION. At each desk is a team of cops

and before each desk is a line of men waiting to be screened.

At the far end of the room Klaatu can be seen at the desk of

a Police Lieutenant, with the detective who picked him up.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Shooting over the shoulders of two cops at one of the desks,

toward the line of people they are screening. A nondescript,

middle-aged vagrant stands before the desk as one of the

cops flips through a card file.

The man is taken out of the line as CAMERA MOVES ON to the

next desk, with another pair of cops and another line. A

rather distinguished-looking business man is placing a sheaf

of identification cards and papers on the desk.

One of the cops at the desk glances over the papers and nods

to the man.

CAMERA MOVES ON to a third desk where a small, rat-faced man

is standing uneasily before the two cops, one of whom is

flipping through a card file.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT LIEUTENANT'S DESK

A Detective Lieutenant in plain clothes is questioning Klaatu,

who stands beside the Detective who brought him in. The

Lieutenant is a rugged but dignified man about fifty,

intelligent and businesslike.

The Lieutenant exchanges a look with the Detective.

The lieutenant shifts in his chair, annoyed that he has to

deal with this madman. He glances at a report on his desk,

trying to control his impatience.

The Lieutenant is turning away in exasperation as a uniformed

cop comes into the scene.

MED. SHOT

A man about forty-five, bloodied and badly beaten, is being

supported and half-carried by two policemen. A police doctor

is guiding them to a doorway, near which is a sign INFIRMARY.

The man is almost unconscious, incapable even of holding up

his head.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT LIEUTENANT'S DESK

The Lieutenant grimaces his disgust and impatience with mob

violence.

Really concerned now, Klaatu tries to find a way out. He

attempts an authoritative air.

Shaking off the Detective's hand, Klaatu speaks to the

Lieutenant.

The Detective takes Klaatu's arm and leads him toward the

door. As they go they pass a Military Police Captain, who

makes his way straight to the Lieutenant's desk.

EXT. POLICE STATION - TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND DETECTIVE

as they come out of the station. Klaatu hesitates a moment,

looks around. His face reveals nothing, but he seems to be

momentarily considering the idea of making a break. The

Detective, sensitive to such a possibility, hooks his arm

under Klaatu's and nods his head toward the sidewalk in silent

command. Klaatu allows himself to be led off.

MED. SHOT

as the Detective leads Klaatu across the sidewalk to the

curb, where a police car is standing. Parked just behind it

is an Army staff car.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ENTRANCE TO POLICE STATION

as the M.P. Captain appears in the entrance, accompanied by

the Police Lieutenant. They see Klaatu and the Detective

approaching the police car and hurry out of scene after them.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT POLICE CAR

MED. SHOT

as Klaatu gets out of the police car and the Captain escorts

him toward the staff car. Passing the Lieutenant, Klaatu

speaks with a polite smile, a smile that might be one of

mild triumph.

The Lieutenant reacts with impatient exasperation as the

Captain holds the staff car door open for Klaatu, who steps

into the Army vehicle, as we--

INT. HALLWAY - BARNHARDT'S HOUSE - NIGHT

as the M.P. Captain and Klaatu enter the front door, which

is held open for then by Hilda. She gestures them toward the

half-open door of Barnhardt's study, where Barnhardt can be

seen puzzling over the problem on the blackboard. The Captain

knocks on the open door to attract his attention and enters

with Klaatu.

INT. BARNHARDT'S STUDY

Barnhardt turns from his deep preoccupation at the blackboard,

chalk in hand.

He steps out into the hall, closing the door. Barnhardt

continues to study Klaatu for a moment, then points to the

notations he made on the blackboard. There is a controlled

but anxious excitement in Barnhardt's attitude.

Klaatu glances at the work Barnhardt has been doing on the

board. Then he points to one of the expressions in an

equation.

Impressed and interested, Barnhardt tugs at his chin as he

studies and weighs the results.

Barnhardt hesitates for a long, thoughtful moment. Then he

goes to the door, opens it and speaks to the Captain outside.

Barnhardt closes the door and turns to find Klaatu watching

him with a faint smile. Barnhardt sinks into a chair, trying

to adjust his mind.

Barnhardt is forced reluctantly to accept Klaatu's refusal

to go any further. After a moment's thought, he speaks

seriously, but with a twinkle in his eye.

Barnhardt stands staring at him for a moment, passes his

hand across his brow. Then, as Klaatu watches, Barnhardt

paces the floor, trying to digest what he has heard. After a

moment, he turns to Klaatu.

Barnhardt flings him a glance, then looks momentarily

sheepish. But his own eagerness carries him on. He paces the

floor thoughtfully.

The implications of this statement leave Barnhardt speechless,

his keen mind reeling.

Barnhardt stands silent for a moment, trying to collect his

shattered thoughts. Klaatu watches him as he starts pacing

again.

Klaatu's bland manner leaves Barnhardt shaken, almost wishing

he'd never started this business.

INT. LIVING ROOM - BOARDINGHOUSE - NIGHT

It is about 3:30 the following evening. Helen is sitting in

a chair leafing through a magazine. She is dressed to go

out. A corner of the dining room can be seen, where Mr. and

Mrs. Barley are playing cards with Mr. Krull. Mrs. Crockett,

the landlady, enters from the hall on her way to the dining

room and notices Helen.

She turns to go on into the dining room and as she does so

almost bumps into Klaatu who is coming out, having been

kibitzing the card game.

Klaatu steps aside as she hurries nervously into the dining

room. He turns, puzzled, to find Helen watching with a slight

smile.

Helen watches him, a little uneasy in his presence. She is

fond of him, and she can't help being curious and concerned

about his brush with the police.

Helen is deeply moved by Klaatu's affection for the boy, She

tried to dismiss her curiosity about him, but she can't. She

decides to face it.

Helen has reacted in puzzlement at this second mention of

Barnhardt. They are interrupted by the ringing of the

doorbell. Helen goes to answer it.

INT. HALLWAY

as Helen opens the front door to admit Tom. He appears

impatient, anxious to get going.

Helen tries to shush him, to indicate Klaatu is in the next

room, when Klaatu appears in the doorway. He must have heard

Tom's remark, and there is an awkward moment. Klaatu is

completely unperturbed, but Helen is embarrassed.

Klaatu stops and turns to face them pleasantly.

He goes on up the stairs. Helen steers Tom toward the living

room.

INT. LIVING ROOM

As they enter from the hall, Helen turns to Tom reproachfully.

This touches on Helen's own private doubts, and she cannot

answer.

She turns quickly and goes into the hall and hurries up the

stairs. Tom looks after her, dismissing the matter with a

shake of the head and a philosophical sigh. Of such stuff

are women made.

INT - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY

Helen reaches the top of the stairs, crosses to her room and

grabs a coat off the bed. She's putting it on as she moves

down the hall to Bobby's room, the door of which is open.

INT. BOBBY'S ROOM

Bobby is at a table doing his homework and Klaatu has just

finished explaining an arithmetic problem to him, as Helen

enters, still putting on her coat.

Helen is embarrassed. She would like to apologize for the

awkwardness downstairs but she doesn't quite know how to go

about it.

He turns and goes out, closing the door. A little distracted,

Helen turns to Bobby.

Helen watches as he starts to put away his work. She wants

to tell him something, but finds it difficult to say.

Helen is surprised to get this corroboration for Klaatu's

story. Sensing his mother's uneasiness, the boy looks for

something intriguing -- some deep, dark secret.

With a reassuring smile, she starts for the door.

Not wanting to go into this any further, Helen blows him a

kiss and backs out, closing the door. Bobby stands thinking

for a moment, his mind still speculating on all sorts of

wonderful possibilities. Still preoccupied, he drifts over

to his bed and sits down to take of his shoes. He drops the

first one to the floor and is starting on the other, when

there is a light rap on his door. The door opens and Klaatu

appears.

Bobby hands him the light, studying his face with eager

curiosity.

Klaatu goes out, closing the door behind him. Bobby hesitates

a moment, puzzled and curious. Then he goes over to the door,

flips off the lights, and slowly, noiselessly opens the door

a crack so he can peer out into the hall.

MED. SHOT

shooting down the hall through the crack in Bobby's door.

Klaatu's door is ajar and through it the lights in his room

can be seen burning brightly. Klaatu goes to his door, reaches

in and flips off the lights and closes the door. He then

scans the hall in both directions. Satisfied he isn't seen,

he moves surreptitiously down the hall toward the stairs,

still carrying the flashlight.

MED CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY

as he closes his door carefully, an expression of intense

excitement on his face. What he has seem is certainly,

unmistakably suspicious. Why did Mr. Carpenter lie to him?

What does he want the flashlight for and where is he going?

Bobby decides he's got to find out. Hurriedly he laces on

the shoe he had taken off, and peers out the door to find

the hall clear. He slips out the door, closing it behind

him.

EXT. STREET - MED. CLOSE SHOT - NIGHT

Klaatu is walking down the dark, semi-deserted street with

the determined stride of a man with a definite objective.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY

Half a block behind, he's following Klaatu, eagerly, flushed

with a sense of excitement and adventure.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET CORNER - NIGHT

Walking along the sidewalk, Klaatu turns into a side street,

disappearing from view around the corner. In a moment, Bobby

hurries into scene breathlessly. He pulls up for a moment to

rest. Then, getting his breath, he dashes on around the corner

after Klaatu.

EXT. LARGE TEMPORARY BUILDING - LONG SHOT - NIGHT

This is a temporary structure that has been erected to enclose

the space ship and Gort. In front of the one small door are

two soldiers, standing guard. Concealed in some foreground

foliage, studying the layout, is Klaatu. Nearby 's a sign

reading: KEEP OUT! This area OFF LIMITS to the public. U.S.

ARMY.

CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY

He is a short distance away, watching Klaatu eagerly.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

as he studies the situation.

MED. SHOT

shooting over Klaatu's shoulder. As he watches, a Jeep filled

with armed soldiers -- apparently regular patrol -- drives

up to the entrance of the building. They stop for a moment

while their Sergeant checks with the guards. Assured that

everything is under control, the Sergeant signals his driver

and the Jeep moves off.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

Scanning the side of the building, he sees what he's looking

for. Waiting until the Jeep disappears, he starts toward one

side of the building, keeping himself concealed in the

foliage.

CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY

puzzled and interested, as he watches Klaatu.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

The two sentries standing in front of the building.

MED. SHOT

as Klaatu maneuvers around the side of the building, where

there is a window. It has no glass in it but is heavily

barred.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

as he leaves the concealing foliage and crosses the clear,

grassy area surrounding the building. He stops and tries to

see through the window.

MED. SHOT - GORT

shooting through the barred window into the building. The

huge robot looms large and eerie in the shadows cast by a

couple of naked work-lights. His head is angled, away from

the window.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

as Klaatu approaches the window. Aiming his flashlight at

Gort, he flashes the light intermittently, as though

signaling. (This should not approximate any known code.)

MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT

As we watch, the intermittent flashes of Klaatu's light appear

on the wall ahead of Gort. Slowly, evenly, the robot's head

turns to face the window.

MED. SHOT

from Gort's viewpoint, of the window, with Klaatu's light

flashing its signals.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

shooting on his back, as he finishes signaling and cuts off

the flashlight. He turns ant starts back for the concealment

of the foliage.

CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY

craning his neck to look for Klaatu, who has eluded his view.

Suddenly he sees Klaatu again.

MED. SHOT - KLAATU

making his way behind the foliage toward the front of the

building. Arriving at a point opposite the entrance, Klaatu

waits and watches.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ENTRANCE TO BUILDING

The two guards are standing in the doorway in positions of

relaxed alertness. Suddenly, inside the building behind them,

the giant figure of Gort looms silently in the doorway. His

two great arms reach out, grab the two guards and drag then

back inside the building.

CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY

He lets out an inaudible gasp as he sees this. Bug-eyed, he

glances quickly to the point where he last saw Klaatu. He is

amazed at what he sees.

MED. SHOT

from Bobby's viewpoint. Klaatu has emerged from the

concealment of the tree-lined path and is making his way

calmly toward the entrance of the building.

CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY

As he watches Klaatu enter the building, his curiosity

conquers his fear and he starts tremblingly toward the

structure.

INT. BUILDING - FULL SHOT

as Klaatu enters. The huge shapes of the space ship and Gort

loom large and eerie. Klaatu starts across the barren

enclosure toward the ship.

EXT. ENTRANCE TO BUILDING - MED. CLOSE SHOT

as Bobby approaches the door, fearful but fascinated. He

peers cautiously inside and his eyes grow wide as saucers.

EXT. BUILDING - MED. SHOT

In *f.g., near the door, the two guards lie unconscious. As

Klaatu walks toward the ship Gort slowly turns his head to

follow him with him with eyes. Klaatu touches a point on the

unbroken surface of the ship and the ramp silently swings

out and down to the ground. Klaatu mounts the ramp and

disappears inside the ship, whereupon the ramp silently

closes.

CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY

as he watches this; his eyes bulging. He can scarcely believe

what he has seen. Suddenly a wave of sheer terror sweeps

over him. Scrambling to his feet, he turns and runs wildly

away.

INT. SMALL CORRIDOR - SPACE SHIP

CAMERA FOLLOWS Klaatu as he moves down the tiny, dimly lighted

entrance corridor. He steps into the main cabin of the ship

and flips a switch which bathes the cabin in a diffused,

shadowless light. The walls are lined with a complex of

mysterious gadgetry -- knobs, dials, indicators, etc. All of

this should be as imaginative and unorthodox as possible,

while still retaining a feeling of sound but highly advanced

engineering.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

as Klaatu moves to the communications panel, flipping switches

and turning dials. Indicators light up. There are crackling,

whirring and buzzing sounds. Klaatu starts speaking into a

built-in microphone in his own strange language. He speaks

in rapid-fire explanation, continuing to talk, as we--

INT. BUILDING - MED. SHOT - NIGHT

as Klaatu walks calmly away from the ship, past the two

unconscious guards and disappears out of the door.

MED. CLOSE SHOT THE TWO GUARDS

as one of them slowly regains consciousness. Looking around,

he sees the great figure of Gort and is terror-stricken. He

shakes his companion frantically in an effort to bring him

to.

INT. LIVING ROOM BOARDINGHOUSE NIGHT

Bobby is curled up in a chair waiting for his mother to come

home. He's sleepy, but the excitement of what he has seen

precluded any such possibility. From the hall we hear the

front door opening as Helen and Tom come in.

Helen and Tom appear in the doorway, Helen is startled to

see Bobby, who has Jumped up and run toward her.

Helen and Tom exchange a glance of tolerant amusement.

He rushes into Helen's arms, clutching her desperately, trying

to hold back his tears.

Nodding, Tom disappears into the hall and up the stairs.

Still holding Bobby, Helen tries to dispel his fears by an

appeal to logic.

Bitterly hurt, Bobby faces his mother gravely, accusingly.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - MED. CLOSE SHOT

Tom is knocking softly at Klaatu's door. Getting no answer,

he tries the door, pushes it open and peers in. Then he steps

into the darkened room.

INT. KLAATU'S ROOM - FULL SHOT

Tom snaps on the light and looks around the empty room. The

bed is still made. Glancing around, Tom's eye is caught by a

flash of something bright on the floor below the dresser. He

stoops down and picks up a fair-sized diamond. Tom studies

the stone curiously, holding it up to the light. Thoroughly

puzzled, he keeps the stone in his hand, switches off the

light and goes out.

UPSTAIRS HALL - MED. SHOT

Closing the door, Tom hurries along the hall and down the

stairs

INT. LIVING ROOM - FULL SHOT

Through the hall door Tom can be seen coming down the stairs.

Helen and Bobby watch expectantly as he enters.

Helen takes the two diamonds Bobby holds out in his hand,

looking at them in amazement.

Helen tries to shush Tom, not wanting to re-stimulate Bobby's

imagination, but it's too late.

As the impact of this sinks in, Helen and Tom turn to stare

at each other in questioning consternation.

FADE IN:

INT. OFFICE - DEPT. OF COMMERCE BLDG. - MED. CLOSE SHOT DAY

It is a typical government office, with lots of desks in it.

Helen is at her desk, straightening it up to go to lunch.

This done, she moves briskly to get her coat. CAMERA PANS to

follow her and suddenly, startlingly reveals Klaatu standing

near the clothes rack, as though he had materialized out of

thin air. Helen is thoroughly startled.

She is nervous and uneasy but obviously can't refuse. The

telephone on her desk rings and Helen turns to answer it.

INT. JEWELRY SHOP - MED. CLOSE SHOT

It's a rather swank shop. Tom is standing at the counter

phoning. The Jeweler is behind the counter examining a stone

through his eyepiece.

INT. OFFICE - DEPT. OF COMMERCE - MED. CLOSE SHOT

She hangs up and smiles uneasily as she rejoins Klaatu and

leads the way out into the corridor.

INT. CORRIDOR - TWO SHOT

CAMERA MOVES with Helen and Klaatu as they go down the

corridor. Klaatu's mood is one of quiet tension.

MED. SHOT

They are approaching the elevator at the end of the corridor.

There is a large crowd of lunch-goers milling around the

elevator, which is quickly filled. Half the crowd is left as

the elevator doors close and it descends.

TWO SHOT - HELEN AND KLAATU

Nervous and distracted, Helen doesn't want to get caught up

in this jam.

She nods toward a side corridor and starts for it, Klaatu

following.

MED. SHOT

CAMERA FOLLOWS them as they turn into the side corridor.

Helen leads the way to a small, automatic elevator. She

presses the button and the doors open. Klaatu follows her

in.

INT. ELEVATOR

As Helen presses the first floor button, the doors close and

the elevator starts down. She turns to face Klaatu.

Without warning the elevator comes to a jolting, jarring

stop as the power is cut off and the lights go out. The car

is illuminated faintly and eerily by light that seeps through

the ventilating grills from a skylight in the shaft. Helen

is terrified.

Helen fumbles to get her wrist watch into a faint beam of

light.

Helen has the flashlight out and is snapping it on, but it

doesn't work. She looks up at him blankly.

The impact of this calm, quiet statement is shattering. Helen

stares at him awe-struck. Then she speaks numbly, almost

inaudibly.

Klaatu stares at her evenly, as we--

MED. SHOT - STREET

All vehicular traffic in the street is at a dead stop.

Automobiles, busses, trolley cars -- all are stalled. Drivers

and passengers are climbing out of the vehicles in utter

bewilderment. Except for the people, it is as though the

street had been frozen in motion.

INT. CITY POWER PLANT

The great generators and dynamos are silent and motionless

in the dim, unlighted plant.

INT. FACTORY

A huge automobile or airplane assembly line, with nothing

moving, no machinery going.

INT. PRESSROOM - METROPOLITAN NEWSPAPER

The giant presses are threaded with newsprint, but they are

silent and motionless.

INT. CONTROL ROOM - RADIO STATION

A couple of engineers are working feverishly over a huge and

complicated control panel. They are working by the light of

two incongruous and ineffectual candles.

INT. NEW YORK SUBWAY KIOSK

People carne pouring up the stairs wildly, feverishly anxious

to escape the darkness below. Their eyes blink weakly in the

unaccustomed sunlight.

EXT. SHOT - NEW YORK STREET

Cars, taxis and busses are stalled, their frenzied drivers

unable to figure out what's happened. A junk peddler with a

broken-down horse and wagon moves grandly and leisurely

through the stalled vehicles. The peddler bears a happy grin

of superiority. This is his moment of triumph over modern

civilization.

LONG SHOT - TIMES SQUARE

with all traffic stalled.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - TIMES SQUARE

of two cab drivers whose taxis have stalled beside each other

in traffic. One has gotten out of his cab. The other is seated

at his wheel, looking around in awe and terror, his tough

Manhattan heart shaken.

LONG SHOT - PICCADILLY CIRCUS - DAY

with all traffic stalled. (It is about 5:00 P.M.)

TWO SHOT - TWO COCKNEYS

standing on the sidewalk, awe-struck at the weird sight before

them. One of them speaks in terror, hardly daring to

articulate his thoughts.

LONG SHOT - MOSCOW STREET - DUSK

with all traffic stalled. (It is about 8:00 P.M.)

MED. CLOSE SHOT - TWO RUSSIANS

They are an elderly couple. Staring bug-eyed at the strange

street scene, the woman mutters some terror-stricken comment

in Russian.

LONG SHOT - PLAZA. DE LA CONCORDE - DAY

with traffic stalled. (It is about 5:00 P.M.)

CLOSE SHOT - FRENCH WOMAN

She is middle-aged and there are tears of fright in her eyes.

She is mumbling a prayer in French.

INT. BARNHARDT'S STUDY - DAY

Barnhardt is seated comfortably at his desk with a book on

his lap. He has been interrupted by the entrance of Hilda,

his secretary. At the moment she`s beside herself with

excitement. Barnhardt watches her with a half-smile of secret

amusement. He has already deduced the cause of what's

happening.

Hilda flings him a questioning look, annoyed that he won't

share her excitement.

The poor woman flings him a look of shocked amazement as we--

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - PENTAGON BLDG. - DAY

Seated at a conference table are high-ranking officers of

the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps. There is the

uneasy tension of people dealing with unknown forces. An

Army Major General, who's Chairman of the meeting, is

speaking.

Ryder is a Colonel of engineers, a man about forty-five.

INT. JEWELRY SHOP - MED. CLOSE SHOT - TOM AND JEWELER

The shop and its glittering display cases, which were

brilliantly lighted in the previous scene, are now gloomy

and dim. All artificial light is off. The Jeweler is a bright-

eyed old man of seventy with a middle European accent. He is

completely fascinated as he examines the diamond Tom has

given him, and is annoyed by the lack of light. He speaks

impatiently to one of the girls in the shop who happens to

pass by.

The Jeweler gives her a preoccupied glance of annoyance and

turns back to the stone.

Impressed by the import of what the man is saying, Tom's

mind is racing wildly.

Preoccupied with his own excited thoughts, Tom has already

started for the door.

INT. ELEVATOR - TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND HELEN

In the dim light of the stalled elevator, Klaatu is finishing

explaining to Helen the story of his mission. Overwhelmed by

the staggering import of what he has told her, Helen is

listening with great interest and concern.

Helen is staring at him in awe, but also in complete

admiration and sympathy.

Klaatu smiles at her warmly and she manages to return the

smile. Their relationship is further cemented by the sharing

of this vital secret.

Suddenly and without warning, the elevator starts moving and

the lights go on. Startled, Helen looks at him.

STREET - MED. SHOT - DAY

Showing a section of street traffic as it comes back to life.

From everywhere comes the sound of self-starters. Trolley

bells start clanging. Then automobile horns. People climb

back into there vehicles and traffic starts to move.

SERIES OF CUTS

of other streets, as the strident sounds of traffic build up

and normalcy is regained.

INT. LOBBY - DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE BLDG - MED. SHOT - DAY

as Helen and Klaatu come out of the elevator and start across

the lobby, CAMERA HOLDING ON THEM. Helen is preoccupied with

concern for Klaatu's safety.

This recalls to Helen something she had forgotten and she

stops in sudden concern.

The look of concern on Klaatu's face heightens Helen's

overwhelming fear and uncertainty.

Helen turns and starts determinedly for the lobby door,

followed by Klaatu, as we--

INT. TELEPHONE BOOTH

Helen is nervous and worried as she speaks into the phone.

INT. TOM'S OUTER OFFICE - CLOSE SHOT - SECRETARY

Tom's secretary has not yet recovered from the shock of what

has happened to the world.

INT. TELEPHONE BOOTH

Helen hangs up, thoroughly worried and distraught now.

INSERT - NEWSPAPER HEADLINE

The headline reads: WORLD-WIDE POWER JAMMED PRESIDENT DECLARES

EMERGENCY STEP UP HUNT FOR SPACE MAN.

EXT. AIRPORT - MED. SHOT - DAY

at passenger loading gate. A group of passengers is held

back as soldiers close the gate to the runway, preventing

their boarding their plane. The passengers mill about in

consternation as a voice is heard over a p.a. system.

INT. RAILROAD STATION - MED. SHOT AT TRAIN GATE - DAY

M.P.'s are blocking the gates leading to trains and ticket

takers are busy explaining matters and remonstrating with

irate ticket holders.

EXT. BUS DEPOT - MED. SHOT - DAY

Passengers are being herded off a loaded bus that was

preparing to leave the depot.

EXT. ROADBLOCK ON HIGHWAY - MED. SHOT

The Army has thrown a roadblock across a main highway on the

outskirts of the city and is permitting no one to leave.

From the line of halted cars we see and the insistent honking

of horns we hear, we get the impression of hundreds of cars

stacked up.

INT. TOM'S OUTER OFFICE - FULL SHOT - DUSK

It is 6:00 P.M. and growing dark outside, but the lights are

not on. The office is small and unpretentious, the business

habitat of a man who works in a big insurance agency. Tom's

secretary is on the phone, reflecting the world-wide terror

of the moment.

The corridor door opens and Tom enters with an air of urgency.

The secretary has a reaction of surprise, but she manages to

stop Tom at his door. He has flipped on the lights in passing.

Tom disappears into his office, closing the door. The

secretary is getting out a telephone directory when the

corridor door opens and Helen enters, tense and nervous.

The secretary buzzes the intercom and speaks into it.

Helen is starting for the door when it opens and Tom appears.

INT. TOM'S PRIVATE OFFICE - FULL SHOT

as Tom follows Helen inside and closes the door. He turns to

her, his voice tense with excitement.

They are interrupted by the sharp sound of the interoffice

buzzer.

Tom picks up the phone and answers it.

Realizing what he's doing, Helen crosses to him, pleading

wildly, desperately.

It is as though he had slapped her across the face. Suddenly

he has revealed himself, naked and distasteful. Feeling guilty

as he sees the contempt and revulsion in her eyes, he tries

the old charm, holding his hand over the phone.

She turns and runs quickly out of the room. Tom's inclination

is to follow her, when his connection is completed.

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - MED. SHOT - DUSK

Helen hurries out of the building, hails a cab, gets into it

and the cab drives off.

INT. TOM'S OFFICE - CLOSE SHOT - TOM

Tom now has General Cutler on the phone.

INT. GENERAL CUTLER'S OFFICE - PENTAGON BLDG.

The General is on the phone and is making notes. There are a

couple of officers standing near his desk, a Colonel and a

Lieutenant Colonel.

The Colonel nods and starts out of the room, as we--

INT. TAXI - MED. CLOSE SHOT - HELEN - NIGHT

The cab is traveling through city traffic. Nervous and edgy,

Helen glances at her watch impatiently.

EXT. STREET - MED. SHOT

A jeep filled with armed soldiers is moving down the street

at a fast clip. Behind the jeep is an Army staff car.

MED. CLOSE- SHOT - STAFF CAR

shooting from outside into the car. In the front seat beside

the driver is a full Colonel, wearing helmet and side-arms.

The car is moving swiftly through traffic as the Colonel

speaks into the transmitter of a radio.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - COMMAND AND RECONNAISSANCE CAR

It is filled with soldiers wearing helmets and carrying rifles

and Tommy guns. It is traveling quite fast. A soldier with a

handy-talkie transmits an order to the driver.

MED. LONG SHOT - STREET

The C. and R. car is seen to be at the head of a convoy of

eight Army vehicles which are moving swiftly down the street.

The trucks are filled with armed soldiers.

MED. LONG SHOT - ANOTHER STREET

On this street also an armed convoy is racing by, headed by

a Jeep mounting a .30 caliber machine gun.

MED. LONG SHOT - ANOTHER STREET

On this street also a convoy rolls by.

EXT. STREET CORNER - MED. SHOT

Helen's cab rounds the corner into the boardinghouse street.

CAMERA PANS with cab as it draws up in front of the

boardinghouse. The cab waits as Helen jumps out and runs up

the steps to the front door. A couple of children are playing

jump-rope in the light of a street lamp.

EXT. MOVING - STAFF CAR - MED. CLOSE SHOT

shooting in at the Colonel as he issues an order into the

radio.

MED. SHOT - ARMY CONVOY

CAMERA FOLLOWS the rear of the convoy as it races down a

main thoroughfare. As the convoy reaches each intersection,

the last vehicle peels off the column and, turns into the

side street.

MED. SHOT ANOTHER CONVOY

racing down another street, the rear vehicles peeling off at

the intersections as in previous scene.

MED. SHOT - INTERSECTION

Following one of the vehicles after it has peeled off into a

side street. It turns around in the side street and draws up

facing the intersection, its motor still running. We get the

impression of a methodical plan to block off each street.)

EXT. BOARDINGHOUSE - MED. SHOT

as Klaatu and Helen come hurrying down the steps and pile

into the waiting taxi. The kids playing Jump-rope stop and

watch as the door is closed and the cab pulls out,

disappearing as it makes a right turn at the end of the

street.

EXT. STREET CORNER NEAR BOARDINGHOUSE - MED. SHOT

(This is opposite end of street from last shot.) Barreling

across the intersection into the boardinghouse street is the

jeep followed by the Colonel's staff car.

EXT. BOARDINGHOUSE STREET - MED. SHOT

As the Jeep and staff car pull up in front of the boarding

house, the soldiers in the jeep pile out and cover the

entrance to the house. Meanwhile the Colonel, still in the

staff car, is talking to the two kids playing out front.

They chatter excitedly, pointing in the direction taken by

the cab.

INT. STAFF CAB - CLOSE SHOT - COLONEL

He speaks into his radio in tones of clipped and quiet

efficiency. The car remains standing at the curb.

INT. TAXI - FULL SHOT

The cab 's moving through traffic at a normal speed. Klaatu

and Helen are tense and nervous.

INT. TAXI - FULL SHOT

The cab's moving through traffic at a normal speed. Klaatu

and Helen are tense and nervous.

CLOSE SHOT - CAB DRIVER

as he looks out to his left, approaching an intersection.

From driver's viewpoint. A C. and R. car is parked in the

side street, facing the intersection, its occupants armed

and helmeted.

CLOSE SHOT - CAB DRIVER

Abreast of the intersection now, he looks to his right.

EXT. STREET INTERSECTION - MED. SHOT

shooting over the rear of a jeep which is halted in a side

street facing the intersection. The cab crosses the

intersection and the jeep driver squints to catch its number.

Then he picks up his radio and speaks into the transmitter.

INT. STAFF CAR - CLOSE SHOT - COLONEL

(The car is still in front of the boardinghouse.) The Colonel

listens to his radio for a moment, then speaks into his

transmitter.

INT. TAXI - MED. CLOSE SHOT

shooting at the driver, over the shoulders of Klaatu and

Helen, as he turns and points out the Army vehicles to them

with a shrug of bewilderment. They look ahead at the

intersection they are approaching.

CLOSE SHOT - HELEN

looking ahead out of her side of the cab, at the intersection.

MED. SHOT - INTERSECTION

from Helen's viewpoint. There is an Army vehicle waiting in

the side street.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

as he looks out of his side of the cab.

MED. SHOT - INTERSECTION

In this side street, too, an Army vehicle is standing.

TWO SHOT - HELEN AND KLAATU

Their eyes meet for a moment, neither willing to conjecture

what this might mean. The very quietness of the operation is

ominous and menacing. Their faces show grave concern.

INT. STAFF CAR - CLOSE SHOT - COLONEL

EXT. TAXI MED. CLOSE SHOT

shooting through the window at Helen and Klaatu, who are

growing more tense and nervous.

MED. SHOT - INTERSECTION

shooting over the back of a jeep mounting a machine gun as

the cab passes the intersection. The driver picks up his

radio and reports into it.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - WEAPONS CARRIER

shooting through the windshield as the driver reports by

radio, his eyes shifting to follow the moving cab.

INT. TAXI - TWO SHOT - HELEN AND KLAATU

Helen is biting her lips nervously. She steals a sidelong

glance at Klaatu to find him staring ahead, deeply preoccupied

and concerned.

Helen nods, repeating the words soundlessly.

SERIES OF CUTS

of vehicle drivers reporting by radio as their eyes follow

the progress of the taxi. (These should be shot so we don't

hear what is said.)

CLOSE SHOT - COLONEL IN STAFF CAR

listening to these reports. Then he speaks into his

transmitter with quiet tension.

The Colonel motions to his driver and the staff car pulls

out.

EXT. STREET - MED. SHOT

as a convoy of eight vehicles moves down the street going

very fast and swings around a corner.

SERIES OF CUTS

of individual vehicles that have been waiting at

intersections, as they pull out and down the main streets to

converge on the taxi.

MED. SHOT

at a major intersection, as the convoy of eight vehicles

previously seen dashes through the intersection and stops.

The cars quickly arrange themselves so that they form a

roadblock, completely sealing off the street.

INT. TAXI

shooting over the driver's shoulder. The cab is proceeding

down the street. When the road block comes into range of its

headlights. The driver, who has been getting uneasy, turns

to face his fares accusingly.

As he slows his cab down, Helen leans forward into scene.

Frenzied, she is about to urge the driver on when Klaatu

puts a restraining hand on her shoulder.

EXT. STREET - MED. SHOT

shooting down the street from the barricade, as the taxi

stops. Army cars are closing in behind the taxi, so it is

trapped. The cab door ovens and Klaatu steps out, making a

run for the entrance to a pedestrian underpass.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - JEEP

It is one of the lead vehicles in the group coming up behind

the taxi. It mounts a .30 caliber machine gun and, with the

Jeep still moving, the gunner fires a burst at Klaatu.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - RIFLEMAN

He's on one of the vehicles that form the barricade. He takes

a bead on the running figure of Klaatu and fires.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

He has almost reached the underpass. His hand is on the

railing when he slumps to the ground, badly hit. In a moment,

Helen rushes into scene, dropping down to hold Klaatu's head

in her arms. He looks up at her with a feeble smile. Then

his face takes on an expression of urgency.

Klaatu is unable to say any more. He is dead. Helen looks

around wildly, helplessly, with tears and terror in her eyes.

MED. SHOT

as the soldiers pile out of their vehicles and close in on

the place where Klaatu lies. He is their first and all-

important concern, and Helen finds herself pushed out of the

way, toward the edge of the growing crowd of soldiers.

CLOSE SHOT

Shocked and, staggered by what's happened, she realizes she

must get to Gort. Taking advantage of the milling confusion

in the dark, she edges toward the pedestrian underpass until

she can slip into its entrance without being noticed. And

she disappears.

INT. BUILDING ENCLOSING SPACE SHIP - MED. SHOT - GORT -

NIGHT

In the eerie light of the huge building, the great robot

stands encased in a solid block of clear, transparent plastic.

As CAMERA MOVES IN slowly, we hear a low whirring sound, as

of power being generated. A faint glow, visible through the

plastic, emanates from Gort's body. His eyes, which seem to

express rage, shifts as though he were straining to break

out. As the whirring sound and the glow of Gort's body

increase in intensity, the sharp edges at the top of the ice-

like block melt into roundness and the plastic starts to

drip away. (About 150 folding chairs are arranged on the

floor near the space ship for the meeting tonight.)

EXT. BUILDING - MED. CLOSE SHOT - TWO SOLDIERS

The whirring sound can be heard faintly from inside. The two

soldiers standing guard at the door hear the sound and listen

apprehensively. The two men exchange an uneasy glance. After

hesitating a moment, one of them decides to investigate. He

turns and goes inside the door.

INT. BUILDING - MED. CLOSE SHOT - THE SOLDIER

As he stops and looks up at the robot, his eyes go wide with

terror.

CLOSE SHOT - GORT

Gort is an awesome and terrifying sight. His head is free

now and he seems to be straining against the plastic, which

is dripping down the sides of the block.

CLOSE SHOT - SOLDIER

He glances around nervously to see that his companion has

entered the building and is staring up at the robot, bug-

eyed. Slowly the second soldier moves up beside the first.

Wordlessly, they bring their rifles up to the ready and click

them off safety. In spite of their terror, they advance slowly

toward the robot.

CLOSE SHOT - GORT

The whirring sound is ominous and his body glows brightly.

And his eyes are fixed on the two advancing figures.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - TWO SOLDIERS

as they move toward Gort.

CLOSE SHOT - GORT

From inside him comes a new and terribly sharp crackling.

sound. And from his eyes two pencils of light dart out. After

a moment the crackling sound stops and the light goes off.

REVERSE SHOT

from same angle as scene before last. But the two soldiers

have utterly disappeared.

FULL SHOT

as Gort resumes breaking out of the plastic. There is no

sign of the two soldiers.

EXT. MALL - MED. CLOSE SHOT - HELEN - NIGHT

Hurrying along a footpath, nervous and distraught, she pauses

for a moment, looking at the entrance of the building. Then

she starts determinedly across the grass toward the entrance.

MED. SHOT

PANNING with Helen as she approaches the entrance fearfully.

Rallying all her courage and determination, she forces herself

to step inside.

INT. BUILDING - MED. CLOSE SHOT - HELEN

as she enters the huge, weirdly lighted building. She stops

short as her glance falls on the awesome figure of Gort.

Loneliness and terror grip her and she wants to run -- but

she realizes she can't.

MED. CLOSE SHOT -GORT

He has seen Helen and his flashing eyes bore into her. His

upper body and arms are free now, and the plastic is rapidly

melting away.

CLOSE SHOT - HELEN

She is held fascinated by the robot's staring eyes. For

another moment it looks as if she would, break and run. But

she summons all her courage, and moves slowly toward Gort,

whose legs are still held captive.

MED. SHOT - HELEN AND GORT

as she moves slowly, fearfully toward him.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT

The plastic is dripping off his legs now. With great effort,

he pulls his legs free and steps out of the stuff. A huge

figure in the heavy shadows, he moves slowly and menacingly

toward Helen.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - HELEN

as she stops advancing, rooted to the spot in fear. Then she

starts backing away, keeping her eyes on him.

MED. SHOT - HELEN AND GORT

As the great, hulking figure approaches, Helen can't stand

her ground. She turns and runs wildly toward the far end of

the building. Gort follows her with unhurried, inescapable

strides. Unwittingly, Helen has run into a corner, and the

robot is closing in on her.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - HELEN

Her eyes go wide with terror as she realizes she's trapped.

In a wild effort to run around him, she stumbles and falls

to the floor. Immobilized with fright, she lies breathless,

looking up at him. Then she gives a piercing scream.

TWO SHOT - HELEN AND GORT

as the great robot bends over her menacingly, arms

outstretched as though to grab or smash her.

CLOSE SHOT - HELEN

All hope gone, she is blessed with a moment of lucidity, and

she remembers the message Klaatu told her to deliver.

CLOSE SHOT - GORT

He pauses as he hears the words. His face doesn't change

expression, but the words obviously have an effect on him.

He hesitates thoughtfully for a moment.

TWO SHOT - HELEN AND GORT

Helen watches him in an agony of suspense. Then the robot

slowly bends down, picks her up in his arms and starts walking

toward the space ship.

MED. SHOT

PANNING with Gort as he carries Helen, speechless with fright,

to the side of the ship. He touches the side, and the ramp

moves slightly out. He mounts the ramp, still carrying Helen,

and disappears into the ship with her. And the ramp closes

silently behind them.

INT. SMALL CORRIDOR - SPACE SHIP

CAMERA FOLLOWS as Gort carries Helen through the dimly lighted

corridor into the main cabin, where he flips a switch that

lights up the cabin. The robot proceeds to a small door

leading off the main cabin and disappears with Helen inside

it.

INT. SMALL CABIN - FULL SHOT

This is revealed as a weirdly equipped laboratory, the walls

of which are lined with the most complex array of mechanical

and electronic apparatus. Gort sets Helen down on a stool

and indicates for her to stay there. Too terrified to move,

Helen watches as he busies himself with the apparatus. He

starts flipping switches and turning dials. As a result,

lights begin to flash and there's a strange series of

mechanical noises.

CLOSE SHOT - HELEN

Unable to guess the reason for these preparations, she is

gripped with a terrible fear.

FULL SHOT

Ignoring Helen completely, Gort finishes his work. Then he

moves to the door and goes out, closing the door behind him.

Helen rushes to the door and searches frantically for the

knob -- only to find, to her terror, that there is none.

Frenziedly she beats on the solid metal door.

EXT. SPACE SHIP - MED. SHOT

as the ramp comes down and Gort steps out. With grim,

determined strides he starts toward the entrance of the

building as the ramp silently closes.

INT. POLICE PRECINCT STATION - NIGHT

The Colonel who was in charge of Klaatu's apprehension is

speaking into a phone at the desk of the Police Sergeant.

Standing by are three or four Army officers, among them a

Captain and a Lieutenant.

The General has apparently hung up and the Colonel does

likewise, turning to the officers in the room.

The two officers mutter their "yes, sirs" and start off about

their business.

INT. JAIL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

A squad of armed soldiers, led by the lieutenant, is admitted

to the corridor by a Police guard and they start marching

down the corridor toward a cell at the far end.

INT. CELL - POLICE STATION

This is a cell on the ground floor. In the far wall is a

heavily barred window, beyond which is as alley. In f.g. are

Klaatu's feet, stretched out on a crude table. As CAMERA

HOLDS, the huge figure of Gort appears outside the barred

window, Seeing Klaatu, he reaches up and yanks out the steel

bars as though they were chicken wire. With a crushing blow

of his knee he crumbles the brick and mortar below the window

and steps inside the cell. He moves without interruption

toward the body of Klaatu.

INT. JAIL CORRIDOR

Hearing the sounds of clattering metal and mortar, the

soldiers race down the corridor toward the cell.

MED. SHOT

shooting over the backs of the soldiers as they reach the

cell and look inside. There they see the giant robot picking

up the body of Klaatu and starting deliberately toward the

gaping hole in the side of the building. They raise their

weapons and fire at Gort, but the bullets have no effect on

him. Continuing uninterruptedly, he steps over the debris

and disappears, carrying Klaatu in his arms.

INT. SPACE SHIP BUILDING - MED. SHOT

as Gort enters the empty building, still carrying the body

of Klaatu. CAMERA PANS with him as he strides over to the

ship. The ramp opens and Gort goes inside. Then the ramp

closes after him.

INT. LABORATORY CABIN IN SPACE SHIP

Alone in the cabin, Helen is still terrified. She looks up,

startled as the door opens and Gort enters, carrying Klaatu's

body over to a long counter. Once again he starts fiddling

with knobs, switches and dials. As Helen watches, speechless,

he starts to fasten strange-looking electrodes to Klaatu's

wrist and ankle.

EXT. POLICE PRECINCT STATION - NIGHT

shooting from the outside, near the front entrance to the

building, through a window into the main room where the Police

Sergeant's desk is. The Lieutenant who was ordered to guard

Klaatu's cell is excitedly reporting to the Colonel how Gort

broke in and took Klaatu's body. Considerably agitated, the

Colonel snaps orders to the other officers, glances at his

watch and motions for the Lieutenant to follow him. He and

the Lieutenant cross to the door and CAMERA PANS with them

as they come outside the building, hurry down the steps and

get into a staff car. Several other Army vehicles join the

staff car as it roars away from the curb.

INT. SPACE SHIP BUILDING - MED. SHOT - NIGHT

A good many of the 150 chairs are filled, and more guests

are still arriving. There is no one to greet them at the

door, so they wander in and seat themselves.

INT. LABORATORY IN SPACE SHIP

Gort is still working over the body of Klaatu. From a socket

in the wall he pulls a strange-looking hypodermic needle on

the end of a cord or tube and gives Klaatu a shot in the

arm.

CLOSE SHOT - HELEN

as she watches, fascinated in spite of her terror.

FULL SHOT

Gort fiddles with the dials again and there are electrical

cracklings and sputterings. Suddenly he flips a switch and

all sound ceases. Gort removes the electrodes and watches

Klaatu. CAMERA MOVES IN on Klaatu and we see him start to

breathe. In a moment his eyelids flutter. Then his eyes open

and he looks around.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

as Klaatu slowly lifts himself to a sitting position. Helen

watches breathlessly as he glances around the room, as though

to orient himself. Then he lowers his feet to the floor and

stands up. He blinks uncertainly, then smiles at them.

Klaatu moves one of the sliding panels and reaches for a

suit of his "other world" clothing from behind the panel.

With a nod of apology, he steps behind the panel to change.

EXT. BUILDING - MED. SHOT - NIGHT

shooting from the door. In f.g. Barnhardt, who has just

arrived, is greeting several friends outside the door. In

b.g. a staff car and three or four other Army vehicles are

driving up.

MED. SHOT - ARMY VEHICLES

As the convoy pulls up to a halt in front of the building,

the Colonel hurries out of the staff car and moves over to

Barnhardt. Barnhardt is motioning his friends into the

building as the Colonel comes up to him.

TWO SHOT - COLONEL AND BARNHARDT

The Colonel speaks to Barnhardt with deference but with

unyielding authority.

INT. SPACE SHIP - TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND HELEN

as Klaatu steps out from behind the sliding panel where he

has changed into his "other world" tunic.

Helen is genuinely upset at the thought of his leaving and

the knowledge that he is to die. There is a compelling warmth

of feeling between these two.

Klaatu looks at her in warm, considered admiration. Then he

moves to one side of the cabin and flips a switch. Suddenly

an entire section of the side wall is made transparent.

Through it, as through a screen, we can see out into the

building. Most of the chairs are already occupied, and

latecomers are still moving in through the door. Facing the

group, on a little dais, is Barnhardt. As Klaatu and Helen

watch, Barnhardt raps for order and begins to speak. His

voice comes in the ship through a speaker.

INT. BUILDING - MED. CLOSE SHOT - BARNHARDT

He addresses them gravely, with a note of terrible

disappointment in his voice.

INTERCUT with the above are group and individual shots of

the people in the meeting. They are the cream of Earth's

intellectuals -- scientists, churchmen, educators, leaders

of social and political thought. There are several women

among them. There are turbaned Indians, Chinese, Japanese,

several Negroes. All religions are represented. Every

important world power is represented.

INT. MAIN CABIN - SPACE SHIP

Klaatu and Helen are watching and listening, as the last

sentence of Barnhardt's speech above comes over the speaker.

Klaatu flips off the switch, which cuts off the view of the

meeting and also Barnhardt's voice. At this moment Gort moves

across the cabin and Klaatu speaks to him.

Gort moves off obediently.

INT. BUILDING - MED. CLOSE SHOT - BARNHARDT

Full of chagrin, he continues addressing the meeting.

Barnhardt is interrupted by the sudden and unexpected

appearance of the ramp, silently opening out of the side of

the space ship.

MED. SHOT - BARNHARDT'S AUDIENCE

as they react in startled amazement to the mysterious

appearance of the ramp. Then, as they watch, there is a sudden

gasp of terror.

MED. SHOT - AT SHIP

as Gort appears on the ramp and walks slowly down to the

ground. In a moment, Klaatu and Helen appear at the entrance

of the ship. Helen comes down the ramp to join Barnhardt,

while Klaatu remains at the head of the ramp.

MED. CLOSE SHOT COLONEL AND SOLDIERS

The Colonel stands near the door, flanked by a group of

soldiers, their rifles at the ready. The Colonel is startled

by what he sees. His eyes are on the revered figure of Klaatu

and he's debating what he should do.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

He is a figure of intense dignity in his impressive otherworld

tunic. He stares with even defiance at the armed soldiers,

as though holding them off by sheer weight of his personality.

He turns to look out at the audience, which is held

spellbound. Then, after a breathless moment, he speaks.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - IN AUDIENCE

of three of the delegates, listening intently. (These three

are from Russia, India and France.)

CLOSE SHOT - A DELEGATE

He is an American.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT

emphasizing his great size and inscrutable expression. The

normal blinking of his piercing eyes as he gazes imperturbably

at the audience is his only movement.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

QUICK REACTION CUTS

of four delegates, reflecting their stark terror and

bewilderment. And a cut of the Colonel and the soldiers,

impressed and held by what Klaatu is saying.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY as he concludes quietly, incisively.

By the time he reads the last line, the CAMERA HAS MOVED

INTO a BIG HEAD CLOSEUP.

MED. SHOT - THE DELEGATES

CAMERA MOVES along a row of their faces, stunned and silent,

their minds unable to cope with the enormity of what they

have heard.

MED. SHOT

CAMERA MOVES IN on Klaatu as he is saying goodbye to Barnhardt

and Helen. He turns then and speaks to Gort, glancing up at

the building as he does so.

CLOSE SHOT - GORT

He looks up at the roof of the building, and once again we

hear the peculiar generating sound from within him.

MED. LONG SHOT

including the delegates, the space ship, everything that is

inside the building. As we watch, the roof and walls of the

temporary structure suddenly disintegrate as the tanks did

in the opening. The entire layout -- delegates, space ship

and all -- remain exactly as they were except that instead

of being under a roof they are out in the open Mall under a

starry sky. The area is ringed with the debris of the

building.

MED. SHOT AT SHIP

Klaatu is standing at the head of the ramp as Gort comes up

the ramp and disappears inside the ship. Klaatu is nodding

goodbye to Barnhardt and Helen.

TWO SHOT - BARNHARDT AND HELEN

as they wave to Klaatu. Barnhardt is moved and impressed,

and Helen's face shows her emotions at this strange parting.

CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU

He nods and smiles at them with warm affection. Then he turns

and disappears into the ship, and the ramp closes behind

him.

MED. SHOT - THE SPACE SHIP

From inside the ship comes the muffled roar of great power

generating -- not the sound of earthly motors, but of a

tremendous dynamo.

MED. SHOT - THE DELEGATES

watching breathless, stunned by what they have heard and

seen.

MED. LONG SHOT - THE SHIP

As the sound from inside it builds to a climax, the great

ship takes off with a tremendous roar.

REACTION CUTS OF DELEGATES

All are deeply moved and impressed. In the mind of each is

the burning question that Klaatu has posed for them.

LONG SHOT - THE SHIP

as it soars away into the inky blackness of the outer spaces

from which it came.

