FADE IN

A white title appears on a black screen.

The title fades off, replaced by a second title.

The second title fades off, leaving a dark screen.

The darkness gradually gives way to a dawning light.

We are confronted with sight of a barren, empty landscape.  A

wide expanse of wasteland.

Suddenly, without warning, an elephant tusk falls from the sky

and crashes onto the parched ground.  The earth-shuddering

impact causes the tusk to rebound once in slow motion before

finally settling to the desert floor in a cloud of dust.

The first tusk is quickly followed by a second, also dropping

from the heavens.  It lands near the first.  Another tusk

smashes to earth several yards away.  Yet another comes crashing

into the foreground.

Finally the dust settles upon a graveyard of tusks.

DISSOLVE TO

A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE

In another region of the wasteland, a forest of tree trunks

suddenly rains down from the sky.  The trunks thump to the hard

ground, also rebounding in slow motion.  Cleanly sawn,

branchless, palm-like trunks, they come to rest in the dust only

to be followed by a second cascade of lumber.

When the dust finally clears. the felled tree trunks lie in a

huge, log-jam in the desert.

DISSOLVE TO

A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE

Next to descend from the sky, a torrent of firewood.  One shower

after another, crashing to the plain.  Enough chopped lumber to

fuel a thousand hearths.

DISSOLVE TO

A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE

Joining the rest of the debris is a deluge of slate - sheets

of shale from a great unseen quarry in the sky come slamming to

earth.  Some of the pieces shattering, some rebounding into the

air until the granite litters acres of landscape as far as the

eye can see.

TITLES ARE SPACED APPROPRIATELY THROUGHOUT THE PRECEDING

SEQUENCE.  THE FINAL TITLE READS:

The camera commences a long, slow pull-back from the pile of

elephant tusks.  Gradually they are revealed as human

fingernails magnified many hundreds of times.

The tree trunks are mere hair follicles.  The firewood,

whiskers.  The slate, flakes of skin.

INT.  INCINERATOR.  EARLY MORNING.

A naked MAN, thirties, seen in profile, is crouched upon a metal

floor inside a small, brushed stainless steel tank, rubbing his

skin raw with a wire brush.  JEROME MORROW.

Having completed his scrupulous ablutions, Jerome arches his

lean frame through the small, oval door of the metal room

with practised ease.

Securing the thick, fireproof windowed door behind himself, he

turns a switch to release gas into the vacated chamber.  The gas

instantly ignites in what is now revealed to be a gleaming

modern stainless-steel custom-made incinerator.

We refocus on a MAGNIFIED CLOSE UP of his exfoliated flesh in

the incinerator as it blackens, curls and burns.

Jerone covers himself with a silk robe and steps into a pair of

backless slippers.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  EARLY MORNING.

JEROME emerges from the incinerator room into a large, luxurious

loft-style condo containing a bizarre assortment of equipment -

arranged somewhat like a production line.

Long, scrupulously clean metal work benches are arranged along

one entire wall.  Laid out on the benches in neat rows are

dozens of plastic bags - some filled, some unfilled.  Instruments

on trays - various types of tweezers, scissors and other less

familiar utensils.  Round, stainless steel containers filled

with hairs of differing lengths and other body matter.

JEROME approaches another man slumped over one of the benches.

EUGENE.  He clutches an empty vodka bottle.  He is snoring

lightly - sleeping off the night before.  As JEROME gently

prises the bottle out of his hand, we are struck by the

similarity of Eugene's face to Jerome's.

Jerome pulls Eugene's chair back from the desk with surprising

ease.  A wheelchair - a modern, ergonomic design.  Jerome wheels

Eugene to a bedroom and, with some difficulty, hauls the larger

man onto the bed.  Through his alcoholic fog, Eugene feebly co-

operates - his paralyzed legs a particular dead weight.

After covering Eugene with a blanket, Jerome enters a bathroom

containing a surgically-clean stainless steel basin, sink,

shower and toilet.

Beside the toilet stands a large, industrial-style stainless

steel refrigerator.

Donning protective gloves, Jerome opens the liquid-nitrogen

cooled refrigerator.  A cloud of condensed water vapor billows

out.  Revealed inside the fridge are racks of labelled jars and

silicon pouches - some containing a yellowish liquid, some a

deep, red liquid.

In front of one of the jars is a handwritten shopping list -

retrieves the note along with one of the jars.  He checks the

jar's label.  Satisfied with the date written there, he breaks

the seal and pours the contents into the clear, silicon pouch of

an IV-like device lying on the steel bathroom counter.

He seals the pouch and checks the apparatus by opening the valve

on its fine tube and squirting a small quantity of the liquid

into the nearby toilet bowl, as one would test a syringe.  We

remain on Jerome's face as he reaches between his legs and

inserts the pouch.

Reopening the refrigerator, Jerome slides out a tray containing

neat rows of slim, fingertip-sized plastic sachets filled with a

deep, red-colored liquid.  He removes his gloves, selects one of

the sachets and carefully adheres the sachet to the pad at the

end of his index finger.  He prepares a second sachet for his

middle finger.  Jerome then applies skin-colored cover-up makeup

to the sachets, blending them in with the color of his fingers.

JEROME, still dressed in his robe, climbs a large, spiral

staircase to the floor above.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  EARLY MORNING.

He emerges at the top of the staircase into a similarly large,

loft-stlye condominium.  Through the floor to ceiling window

that opens onto a balcony we see that dawn is only just starting

to leak into the night sky.

In the bedroom JEROME removes a shirt from a drycleaning bag.

Printed on the bag -

from his bedroom, dressed in a smart albeit unconventionally cut

suit.  He adjusts his tie in the mirror, careful not to disturb

the sachets attached to his fingertips.

INT.  INVESTIGATOR'S POOL.  MORNING.

A lone MAN swims a ferocious lap of freestyle in what appears to

be a pool of enormous length - yet he never reaches the pool's

end.  We pull wider to reveal that the man is swimming against

an artificial current in a pool barely larger than himself.

Abruptly, the man stops and stands up - the fast-flowing current

instantly stilled.  We glimpse the face of INVESTIGATOR LUCAS.

Thirties, he has a youthful yet rigid face.  We have the

impression that he does not swim for pleasure.

EXT.  CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX.  MORNING.

It is still early as JEROME exits the building's underground

parking garage in an immaculate Studebaker Avanti and proceeds

down the long straight driveway.  He exchanges a wave with a

GARDENER trimming a lawn.

The whir of the car's electric powered engine belies its

conventional appearance.

EXT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION.  DAY.

JEROME's car exits a highway and turns up the sweeping road

leading to the parking lot of "GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION".

A sleek, modern, low-rise industrial compound boasting perfectly

manicured landscaped gardens.

INT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION.  DAY.

JEROME strides purposefully up to the entranceway with hundreds

of other GATTACA EMPLOYEES.  He carries himself with a certain

arrogance, a cool detachment.  All employees wear similarly

unconventionally-cut suits, short coiffed hair and robust tans.

The Gattaca employees are a seemingly equal split of men and

women and a diverse range of ethnicities.

They filter through a row of channels supervised by SECURITY

GUARDS.  Each channel contains a computerized security device,

featuring a slim groove in which the employee places a finger

under the watchful eye of a Security Guard.

Jerome gives a polite nod to a Guard as he places his index

finger in the groove.  His fingertip is jabbed with the

finest of needles and a minute blood sample taken.

The blood specimen confirms Jerome's identity - an ID photograph

appearing on a computer screen.

Out of the corner of his eye, Jerome spies a young woman

entering through the adjacent channel.  She is also sneaking a

glance in his direction - IRENE.  Catching each other looking,

they both quickly avert their eyes.

As Jerome enters the computer facility of Gattaca Aerospace

Corporation he furtively glances at the pin-prick puncture in

his fingertip sachet.

SOMEWHERE IN DEEP SPACE.

A GATTACA spacecraft skirts an asteroid.  Taking advantage of

the rock's gravitational pull, the craft slingshots deeper into

the black void.  Then abruptly the craft and the asteroid freeze

in mid-space, suddenly reverse direction and proceed forward

again - the spacecraft taking a slightly adjusted course.

We pull back to reveal that the journey is merely a highly

realistic graphic representation on a GATTACA computer screen

operated by JEROME.

Appearing simultaneously alongside the computer animation is a

seemingly never-ending column of computer instructions for this

celestial navigation - the incomprehensible language of the

computer programmer.

Jerome is transported - plotting a path through the heavens.

As his fingers fly across the keys he does not once take his

eyes from the screen.

His is one of hundreds of ergonomically designed work stations,

arranged in ever-widening circles in a huge, curcular, well-

appointed if antiseptic room.  Each curved desk contains a

computer terminal consisting of a keyboard and a slim,

transparent screen behind which is seated a PROGRAMMER,

designing software for the aerospace agency.  At the center of

the room is a donut-shaped command console, chairs facing

outwards, from which operations are monitored.

Floor to ceiling smoked-glass curved walls offer the only

concession to nature - a tinted view of a man-made, meticulously

landscaped garden.

Jerome tears himself away from his screen and picks up a

discreet mini-vac.  He vacuums between the keys of his keyboard.

DIRECTOR JOSEF, 50's, a shorter, official-looking man

approaches.  His assistant IRENE stands at his shoulder.

The Director smiles at the notion and places a computer disc

on Jerome's desk.

The Director briskly departs, Irene in tow.  At a nearby work

station, a painfully thin programmer, NAPOLEON, perks up at

the mention of the test.

Jerome merely shrugs and pretends to reach down and scratch his

ankle.  However he surreptitiously produced one of Eugene's

transparent specimen bags from his sock.  An EXTREME CLOSE UP

reveals the bag's contents - flakes of skin, hair follicles,

eyelashes, a fingernail.  Cupping the bag in his hand to avoid

detection, Jerome sprinkles the fraudulent body matter over his

keyboard, desk surfaces and the floor around his work station.

He opens his desk drawer and casually scatters the remainder of

the bag.  Finally he inspects a comb already laced with two

hair follicles.

Jerome rises from his work station and makes his way towards the

testing lab.

INT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION - TESTING LABORATORY.  DAY.

White-coated LAMAR, forties, buzzcut, a man's man, checks

JEROME's eyes with an instrument.  Satisfied with his

examination, he passes a transparent plastic container to

JEROME.  Standing directly in front of the technician with his

back to camera, Jerome opens his fly.  A steady stream of urine

begins to flow into the container from Jerome's hidden pouch.

Jerome hands the container to Lamara who seals and label it as

Jerome refastens his trousers.

LAMAR pours the urine sample into a high-tech device where it

is instantly analyzed.  The urine identifies Jerone while also

registering a negative drug reading.  The computer reads

Jerome departs.

INT.  GATTACA - RESTROOM.  DAY.

JEROME enters the restroom and glances at the toilet stalls.

Only three in the bank of twenty is occupied.  He tarries at the

mirror above the uniform line of basins, unnecessarily

reknotting his tie.

A toilet flushes and a COLLEAGUE exits one of the stalls.  He

and Jerome exchange a nod.  When the man has exited the restroom,

Jerome enters the man's vacated stall.

INT.  GATTACA - TOILET STALL.  DAY.

JEROME immediately feels around the back of the toilet bowl and

detaches a secreted stainless steel container.

With surprising swiftness and dexterity, Jerome removes an

extremely fine contact lens from each eye and drops the pair

into the toilet bowl.  He inserts two replacement lenses from

the container and reattaches it in its hiding place.

Jerome flushes the toilet and exits the stall.  He checks in the

mirror that his new contact lenses are properly inserted.

INT.  GATTACA - CORRIDOR.  DAY.

Walking back along one of the long, glass-walled corridors,

JEROME becomes aware of a peculiar noise in the complex -

or to be more precise, a lack of noise.  The incessant tapping

of computer keys has stilled.

As Jerome gazes through the glass walled corridor, we see the

reflection of his face, deep in thought.

Jerome's gaze drifts to the sky.

EXT.  BEACH.  DUSK - THIRTY-ODD YEARS EARILER

A starry sky.  The camera tilts down to find palm trees

swaying against a setting sun.

The camera tilts down further to find a Buick Riviera parked in

a deserted beachfront parking lot on a polluted stretch of

beach.

Through the car's steamed windows we see Jerome's mother and

father, MARIA and ANTONIO, early twenties, making love.

INT.  FAMILY PLANNING CLINIC.  DAY.

MARIA, wearing a medical gown, lies on an examining table, feet

in stirrups.  A NURSE, forties, wheels an instrument tray

towards her.  Maria suddenly disengages her feet from the

stirrups and swings her legs off the table.

The nurse places a comforting hand on Maria's shoulder.

The remark stings Maria.

Maria gets off the table and reaches for her clothes laying

across a chair.

The nurse watches Maria as she dresses, genuinely bewildered.

INT.  DELIVERY ROOM.  DAY.

We focus on a crucifix dangling on a rosary.  Tilting up we find

the rosary clasped between MARIA and ANTONIO's intertwined

hands.

Bathed in sweat, Maria gives a final push on the delivery table.

While still attached to his umbilical cord, the heel of the

NEWBORN BABY BOY is immediately pricked by a masked NURSE.  A

minute drop of blood is inserted into an analyzing machine.

Even as the baby is put into Maria's arms, page after page of

data begins to appear on a monitor, pulsing warning signals

throughout the spreadsheets.

Two assisting NURSES exchange a look.  Antonio senses something

amiss.

Antonio turns his attention from his baby to the data appearing

on the monitor.  We see individual items highlighted amongst the

data -

42%", "OBESITY - 66%", "ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER - 89%"--

Antonio focuses on a final highlighted item on the monitor's

screen,

"LIFE EXPECTANCY - 33 YEARS"

With a computer stylus he signs the nurse's handheld screen.

EXT.  TRACT HOME - BACKYARD.  DAY.

2-YEAR-OLD JEROME (REFERRED TO BY HIS GIVEN NAME OF "VINCENT"

FOR MOST OF THE FOLLOWING FLASHBACK) running with a toy rocket

falls more in clumsiness than fatigue.  MARIA suddenly whisks up

the toddler.

Maria frantically listens to her young son's heartbeat.  For

his part, Vincent appears surprised by the attention.  Maria

places a portable oxygen mask over Vincent's mouth.

INT.  DAY CARE CENTER.  DAY.

MARIA and ANTONIO drop off dark-haired 2-YEAR-OLD VINCENT at a

Day Care Center.

While HEALTHY CHILDREN play outside on tricycles, clamber over

jungle-gyms and finger-paint, the PRE-SCHOOL TEACHER shows

Vincent into a room where CHILDREN WITH OBVIOUS DISABILITIES

sleep on mats.

Maria wheels around and marches out of the center with Vincent

in her arms.  Antonio follows close behind, pleading with his

wife to see sense.

EXT.  HOME.  DAY.

ANTONIO reluctantly shows off his spotless Buick Riviera to a

prospective BUYER.

The two men haggle over the price while MARIA, holding VINCENT

in her arms, looks on.  Finally money and a pink slip are

exchanged.

As the BUYER drives away, Antonio shrugs to Maria to hide his

disappointment.

EXT.  GENETIC COUNSELLING OFFICE BUILDING.  DAY.

ANTONIO, MARIA and 2-YEAR-OLD VINCENT exit a packed commuter

bus and enter a Genetic Counselling office building bearing

the sign - "PRO-CREATION".

INT.  GENETIC COUNSELLING OFFICE.  DAY.

A GENETICIST stares into a high-powered microscope as ANTONIO,

MARIA and 2-YEAR-OLD VINCENT are shown into the office by a

NURSE.  On the counter beside the Geneticist is a glass-doored

industrial refrigerator containing petri dishes arranged on

racks several feet high.

While Antonio and Maria take a seat in front of a television

monitor, the Nurse puts a labelled petri dish under a video-

equipped microscope.  The Geneticist swings around in his chair

to greet his clients.

Four magnified clusters of cells - eight cells on each cluster

- appear on the television screen.

Maria and Antonio exchange a nervous smile.

The Geneticist nods.  He scans the data around the edge of the

screen.

Maria is only half-convinced, but the Geneticist swiftly moves

on.

Antonio beams proudly.

Antonio's face falls.

Maria is staring at the four magnified clumps on the screen.

Removing the petri dish from beneath the lens of the microscope,

he points out the four minuscule specks.

DISSOLVE TO

INT.  TRACT HOME.  DAY.

A red pencil draws a mark on a doorway at the height of a

child's head.  The child moves away and the name,

written beside the mark by proud father, ANTONIO.

There is little physical similarity between 11-YEAR-OLD ANTON

and 13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT standing beside him, apart from their

height.  In fact Vincent is mortified to see that his younger

brother's mark is a fraction of an inch higher than the mark

beside his own name,

EXT.  BEACH.  DAY.

13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT and 11-YEAR-OLD ANTON sit together on a

windswept beach.

Anton picks up a broken shell and deliberately slices the tip of

his thumb with the sharp edge.  He hands the shell to Vincent

who hesitantly follows suit.

The two brothers press their thumbs together, merging the blood.

EXT.  BEACH.  LATER IN THE DAY.

While ANTONIO and MARIA doze under a beach umbrella, ANTON and

VINCENT enter the water, diving through the waves.  From above

we watch their two young bodies swimming beside each other

beyond the breakers.

Suddenly VINCENT stops swimming, pulling up sharply in the

water, exhausted and fearful.  He watches ANTON swim on into the

distance.

INT.  SCHOOL - CLASSROOM.  DAY.

A TEACHER gives a physics lesson.  The bespectacled 13-YEAR-OLD

VINCENT has his arm energetically raised at each opportunity but

is never called upon.  Eventually he lowers his arm in defeat.

EXT.  STREET.  NIGHT.

13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT stands at a cul-de-sac at the end of a long,

straight deserted street.  He places a basketball in the middle

of the street to represent the SUN and begins to unwind the huge

reel of string attached to the ball.  11-YEAR-OLD ANTON walks a

pace behind him.  Several yards along the trail a bead is

threaded through the string to represent the planet MERCURY.

Vincent ignores him and continues to reel out the string.

Vincent stops and regards his younger brother with contempt.

Anton lifts his foot.  There is a bead beneath it.

INT/EXT.  CAR / SATELLITE DISH.  DUSK.

VINCENT has developed into a handsome 17-YEAR-OLD.  His

spectacles hidden, he and a YOUNG WOMAN are necking in the front

seat of a beat-up car, parked overlooking a huge satellite dish.

The love-making intensifies.  The YOUNG WOMAN moves down

Vincent's chest and unzips his fly.

We remain on Vincent's face as he climaxes.  The YOUNG WOMAN

turns her head away from the spent Jerome and, out of his

view, trickles semen from her mouth into a clear specimen vial.

INT.  HOME.  DAY.

In the living room of their modest home, the dark-haired, 17-

year-old, bespectacled VINCENT sits opposite his PARENTS.  The

crestfallen Vincent has a book on his lap entitled "CAREERS IN

SPACE".

Vincent looks at his father in disbelief.

On a dinner table on the other side of the living room, 15-YEAR-

OLD ANTON looks up from the biological specimen he is studying

with a magnifying glass.

INT.  PERSONNEL OFFICE - WAITING ROOM.  DAY.

17-YEAR-OLD VINCENT hides his glasses in his pocket as he enters

a WAITING ROOM.  He gazes around at other APPLICANTS.

As Jerome enters the office, we focus on the doorhandle he has

just touched.

Vincent hesitates before shaking the PERSONNEL OFFICER's

outstretched hand.

We focus on Jerome's envelope attached to his application form

sitting on the Manager's desk.

Sitting opposite the manager, Jerome's face falls.  The manager

puts a clear, plastic cup in front of Jerome.

Vincent saves the Manager the trouble and exits the office,

leaving the cup where it sits.

EXT.  BEACH.  DAY.

17-YEAR-OLD JEROME walks up the beach to find 15-YEAR-OLD ANTON

sitting with the YOUNG WOMAN Vincent had previously dated.

The Young Woman hastily departs.

LATER the two brothers face each other on the sand.  Anton is

the more statuesque of the two.

Vincent's answer is to walk towards the water.  Anton smiles

mockingly at his brother's grim "game face" and

follows.

From an aerial view we watch VINCENT and his younger brother, ANTON,

swim beyond the breakers.

We watch the two young men swimming stroke for stroke.  They

swim far out, beyond the point.  Suddenly ANTON starts to slow,

his strokes becoming labored until he becomes motionless in the

water.  He begins to sink like a stone.  VINCENT, realizing

Anton is no longer beside him, turns back to lend support.

Vincent takes him in a lifeguard hold and begins to nurse him

back to shore.  Finally the two boys are coughed up onto the

shallows.  They collapse, just beyond the waterline, exhausted,

gasping for air.  ANTONIO and MARIA arrive on the scene.  ANTON

is the first to recover while VINCENT clutches his side, his

face screwed up in pain.  Maria kneels down and starts to

administer to Vincent but his father, Antonio, is unable to

conceal his anger and contempt for Vincent.

Maria takes Antonio aside.  Anton and Vincent exchange a look.

INT.  HOME.  NIGHT.

ANTON stands at the mantlepiece in the dimly-lit living room.

He gazes at a framed family portrait - Vincent's face has been

torn out of it.  He suddenly spies VINCENT exiting the front

gate, carrying a suitcase.  Anton goes to shout Vincent's name

but the words don't get out.

EXT.  GATTACA.  DAWN.

A pick-up truck, packed with a CLEANING CREW, pulls into the

rear of the building.  They are no longer strictly the migrant

workers we have come to expect but rather a mixture of

ethnicities - all members of a genetic underclass that does not

discriminate by race.

As VINCENT exits the truck and turns towards the camera, we

discover that he has now matured into the man we have come to

know as JEROME.  The only visible differences are the glasses he

wears and his hair, still naturally dark.

We follow VINCENT through the course of a day.  Cleaning

restrooms, toilets, picking up litter, sweeping, washing

windows - gazing at the AEROSPACE WORKERS below.  The building

is part of the Gattaca facility, located near a shuttle launch

site.  Throughout the day, with the regularity of 747's, Vincent

spies rocket ships in the distance, launching into the sky.

Jerome's is the only head that turns and looks up.  Long after

the sun has set, Vincent is still working.  Another rocket ship

lights up the darkness.  Vincent gazes forlornly into the

heavens.

EXT. GATTACA - GLASS WALL.  DAY.

VINCENT cleans a window from the outside, staring in at the

arrogant GATTACA EMPLOYEES entering the security channels -

a smaple taken from their fingertips.  Jerome, in a trance,

constantly cleans the same spot of glass.  He fails to notice an

Older Janitor, CAESAR, appear beside him.

Caesar smiles at Vincent's cockiness.

INT.  GATTACA.  DAY.

VINCENT empties garbage into a dumpster adjacent to Gattaca.

His attention is drawn to something in the trash.  A discarded

manual on Celestial Mechanics and Navigation.  He wipes food

residue off the corner.

INT.  ASTRONOMY & TELESCOPE SHOP.  DAY.

A forest of telescopes on tripods in an astronomy shop.  VINCENT

enters the store with a bucket and squeegee and immediately goes

to clean the storefront window.  The STORE OWNER looks up from

his tabloid - "STAR" magazine.

The owner nods and returns to his magazine.  When he looks up

again one of his tripods is missing its telescope and Jerome is

nowhere to be seen.

INT.  IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT.  NIGHT.

JEROME returns to his bare apartment.  He removes the cloth

covering the bucket to reveal a dumpy-shaped telescope snugly

wedged inside.  He starts to pour over his collection of

textbooks.  Other tattered space paraphenalia adorns the wall.

EXT.  GATTACA.  NIGHT.

While his fellow WORKERS sit on the steps at the service

entrance to Gattaca, passing around an unlabeled bottle of clear

liquor, VINCENT sits some distance away studying his text book.

In the absence of a computer, he practices typing commands on a

keyboard handdrawn on the flap of a cardboard box.

A tiny, seedy-looking man, GERMAN, forties, appears from

nowhere and takes a seat beside him.

He looks the apprehensive Vincent up and down.

Vincent pulls a plastic e-money card from his overalls.

Vincent produces a snapshot of himself - torn from the family

portrait.  German feeds the snapshot into the pocket-sized

computer he carries.  The picture is instantly scanned and

appears on the computer's small color screen.  German returns

the photograph and hastily departs.

CAESAR, the elderly janitor, notices German's exit.

High up the side of a building, washing windows, VINCENT pauses

occasionally to practice typing commands on his cardboard keys -

viewing a screen in his imagination - or the nightsky itself.

He hears his name being called.

INT.  IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT.  NIGHT.

GERMAN leads VINCENT through a maze of corridors.

He gives a conspiratorial nod to another passing DNA BROKER,

both men carrying their palm-top computers.

German has stopped walking as if they have arrived.

German reaches towards a PARAPLEGIC sitting in his wheelchair

in the stairwell directly in front of them, his head slumped, an

incriminating bong nestled in his lap.  German pulls the man's

head up by the hair.  EUGENE.  Depsite the patchy, unkempt

beard and thick glaze over his eyes he bears a striking

similarity to Vincent.  Vincent holds a mirror beside the face

of the lethargic Eugene to compare his own reflection.

German checks an entry in his computer:

Vincent grins, realizing that Eugene is referring to his seated

height.  There is an instant connection between the two men.

INT.  BACKSTREET SURGERY.  NIGHT.

In a primitive operating theatre, VINCENT lies on a table, his

lower legs masked off for surgery.  The SURGEON switches on a

surgical saw and lines it up with handdrawn incision marks.

Metal struts are ready to elongate his legs.

INT.  IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  DAY.

GERMAN wheels the dazed EUGENE into the apartment, cluttered

with space paraphenalia.  One wheel of his rusting wheelchair is

flimsily held on with wire.  VINCENT follows behind on crutches,

both lower legs in casts and cross-braces.  Vincent signs the

contract German puts in front of him.

EXT.  STREET OUTSIDE A BAR.  DAY.

EUGENE, glassy-eyed, strides out of a bar, past camera and into

the street.  We hear a squeal of brakes and a sickening thud.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  DAY.

EUGENE awakens with a scream, bathed in sweat, arms bound to a

bed - the only real piece of furniture in the room.  VINCENT,

sitting on a crate beside him, soaking a towel in a bowl of

water, is taken by surprise.  Eugene continues to scream and

thrash, fighting against his bindings.  Vincent stuffs the towel

into Eugene's mouth and holds onto his arms.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT - BATHROOM.  NIGHT.

VINCENT holds EUGENE's head over the toilet bowl as he vomits

violently.  Eugene's paralysis and Vincent's broken legs make

the operation doubly difficult.

Finally Eugene has nothing left in his stomach to vomit.  He

drops to the floor in exhaustion.  Vincent, also exhausted from

the effort of holding Eugene over the bowl, joins him on the

broken linoleum.  Both men stare up at the ceiling that carries

a map of the constellation.

Vincent smiles.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

EUGENE turns his nose up at the plate of boiled meat and

potatoes that VINCENT puts in front of him.  Vincent catches the

look.

Jerome merely stares back as if the thought of failure has never

occurred to him.

NB:  FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE SCREENPLAY "VINCENT" IS REFERRED

TO AS "JEROME".

INT. HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

JEROME looks through Eugene's personal effects, including a

photograph album.  He is drawn to a swimming medal inside the

album at a page displaying a photo of a wealthy, austere

MOTHER - Eugene evidently comes from money.

Even as he wheels into the room in his rickety wheelchair we see

that EUGENE has the bearing of someone of good breeding.  He has

a bag of blood on his lap.  More blood is being drawn from his

arm through an IV.  Eugene catches Jerome looking at the album.

Eugene wheels away.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  DAY.

JEROME practises writing with his right hand, trying to

replicate Eugene's signature.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  DAY.

A pair of spectacles lie on the bed.  JEROME, still wearing his

twin casts, sits behind an optometrist's portable examining

device.  GERMAN hovering in the background, an OPTOMETRIST

custom-fits JEROME with gossamer thin contact lenses.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  DAY.

The Optometrist has been replaced in the living room with a

BLACK MARKET DENTIST who bonds JEROME's small, gapped teeth to

match EUGENE's perfectly straight, white picket fences.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  DAY.

Hair already bleached and cut to match Eugene's hairstyle,

JEROME sits in a chair against a hastily erected white paper

backdrop.  From his wheelchair, EUGENE puts the finishing

touches to Jerome's hair.  He wheels himself out of the way.

The final accomplice in Jerome's deception, a BLACK MARKET

COMPUTER GRAPHICS DESIGNER, takes Jerome's photo with a video

camera.  Manipulating the captured image, the Designer morphs

Jerome's face into the face of Eugene.  The resulting photo that

spits out of a printer is neither one nor the other but an

acceptable combination of the two.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  DAY.

EUGENE is starting to prepare Jerome's specimen bags for the

first time.  He winces in pain as he plucks several hairs from

his head.  JEROME, now out of his casts, prepares job

applications.

Jerome ignores him.  Having learnt his lesson, he hands the

envelopes to EUGENE to lick the flaps.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  DAY.

JEROME is doing a late-minute cram on a geriatric computer from

the late 1990's.  Checking the time, Jerome hurriedly picks up

the shirt that EUGENE has been ironing from a prone position on

the floor.

Jerome contemplates the question for a moment.

Jerome hurrise to the bathroom where, with some difficulty, he

inserts his urine device for the first time.  The new improved

Jerome emerges into the living room ready for his interview.

INT.  GATTACA CORPORATION - TESTING LAB.  DAY.

JEROME emerges from a bathroom and hands a TECHNICIAN his

plastic cup full of fraudulent urine and inserts it into the

analyzer.

EXT.  GATTACA.  DAY.

JEROME, scarcely able to disguise his delight, exits Gattaca,

trying not to stare at the superb specimens who are now his

"colleagues".

In a nearby park MODEL CHILDREN from MODEL PARENTS play

together.

INT.  HOUSING PROJECT - APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

JEROME wheels EUGENE out of their housing project.  He takes in

the neighborhood for the last time.  We focus on a POOR COUPLE

cradling an INFANT.

We glimpse other PEOPLE in the neighborhood.  They appear poor

but, for the most part, physically normal.  However a pall of

gloom hangs over them.

[* "IN-VALID" pronounced as in "an invalid license"]

As they enter a car, driven by GERMAN, Jerome spies a beautiful

young GIRL, 11, sitting on the steps of the housing project,

staring forlornly into space.  While there is no outward sign of

any deficiency, she is somehow aware that she is damaged goods.

Jerome glances in the rearview mirror.

Jerome wheels Eugene into the palatial condominium complex where

the two men now reside.

INT.  GATTACA.  PRESENT DAY.

We return to JEROME's reflection in the glass.  Other GATTACA

EMPLOYEES are gradually gathering behind him.

We now see what Jerome has been gazing at through the window

the whole time - the sight that has brought a hush to the

complex.  Through an open office door lies the body of a large

man - the MURDERED DIRECTOR, lying where he has just been

discovered, in a pool of his own blood.

Jerome wipes his eye and also goes to investigate.  We focus on

an extreme close up of his EYELASH.  Loosened by Jerome's hand,

it breaks free and floats gently down to the floor where it

comes to rest.

INT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION.  MORNING.

DETECTIVE HUGO, late-forties, wearing a crime-scene hygenic suit

and gloves and a full clear mask - looking more like a surgeon

or a toxic waste worker than a detective - places a blood-

spattered computer keyboard alongside the Director's shattered

skull.  The indentations match the blunt corner of the keyboard.

Hugo detaches the dangling keyboard from its parent computer and

seals the likely murder weapon in a marked, transparent plastic

bag.

A CREW of similarly-suited homicide detectives systematically

vacuum the surrounding office area with metallic, industrial-

looking mini-vacs.  Once each work space has been vacuumed, the

transparent plastic vacuum bag is detached, sealed and labelled.

OTHER DETECTIVES video the scene with camcorders.  Video prints

spit out of the cameras for instant inspection.

EXT.  GATTACA - LANDSCAPED GARDENS.  DAY.

A silicon police tape cordons off the crime scene.  From the

landscaped garden, a crowd of GATTACA EMPLOYEES view the

proceedings through the glass walls.

Nervous smirks from nearby employees.  We focus on JEROME.

Standing slightly apart from the others, he does not appear to

share the joke, or perhaps even hear it.  Jerome watches, wide-

eyed, as a DETECTIVE approaches his work station with a mini-

vac.  A chill goes through Jerome as the detective's cleaner

passes over his desk.

Jerome is distracted by a smear on the window, obstructing his

view.  Without thinking, he breathes on the glass and rubs the

smear away with his elbow.  Nearby, elderly janitor, CAESAR

notices Jerome's fastidious act and reads the panic in Jerome's

eyes.  DIRECTOR JOSEF suddenly appears at Jerome's shoulder.

Standing a pace behind the Director, computer notepad in hand,

is IRENE.

He glances towards a group of Detectives headed by HUGO.

As the pair depart, Jerome and Irene exchange a glance.  Irene

is also aware of Jerome's unease.

INT.  GATTACA - CORRIDOR.  DAY.

We focus on JEROME's eyelash, still lying on the floor.

A huge crescent-shaped hair that fills the screen.  Suddenly

there is a roar of a mini-vac and the eyelash is sucked up.  We

follow the eyelash's journey, down the throat of the cleaner

into the specimen bag where it is sucked against the bag's

clear, plastic wall.

INT.  GATTACA - COMPUTER COMPLEX.  DAY.

The DIRECTOR's corpse is sealed in a plastic bodybag and wheeled

away on a gurney.  The blood and other body matter from the

murder scene is sucked up by a portable wet-vac and the sample

bag appropriately labeled.

EXT.  GATTACA - COURTYARD CAFETERIA.  DAY

A chime sounds over the P.A. follwed by an announcement.

The PROGRAMMERS get to their feet en masse and begin filing into

the work room.

INT.  GATTACA COMPUTER COMPLEX - DIRECTOR'S OFFICE.  DAY.

A WOMAN ASSISTANT whose keyboard was used in the attack has to

pause as a MAINTENANCE WORKER gives her work station a final

spray to return it to its former pristine condition.  A new

keyboard is plugged into her monitor to replace the one taken as

evidence.

INT.  GATTACA COMPUTER COMPLEX.  DAY.

JEROME opens his desk drawer to check his comb, now plucked

completely clean.  He carefully places two of Eugene's hairs to

the comb and scatters another bag of fraudulent matter around

his work station.

INT.  GATTACA - SIMULATOR ROOM.  DAY.

In a large, bare room a simulator does a slow dance back and

forth on its hydralic legs, miming the path of the space

craft Jerome will soon be aboard.  The simulation ends and

JEROME exits the simulator through a small door.  IRENE

hesitantly approaches, carrying a slim electronic tablet.

Jerome turns, not displeased by the interruption.

Irene makes a note with her stylus.

Irene makes another note.

Irene contemplates the question.

Irene is still unsure whether or not Jerome is serious.

Irene turns and departs.  Jerome watches her go.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

The paraplegic EUGENE, seated by the window, meticulously cuts

a long fingernail into numerous clippings.  He places the

clippings in small plastic bags and seals them.  He then begins

to fill tiny sachets with blood.  He turns as he hears JEROME

enter down the spiral staircase with the groceries.

JEROME places the items in the refrigerator in the bathroom and

retrieves a bottle of vodka - the vodka incongruous-looking

beside the blood and urine specimens.  Joining Eugene at his

workbench, he pours them both a drink.

Eugene takes in the news, a smile broadening across his face.

Jerome shoots him a glance for the inappropriate remark.

Jerome wheels Eugene's chair to a specially constructed platform

that allows the wheels to spin in mid-air.  Jerome tapes an

electrode to Eugene's chest and attaches the wire to a slim

recording device.  Eugene begins to spin the wheel of the chair

faster and faster.  Jerome monitors Eugene's steady heartbeat

through a set of headphones.

INT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION - COMPUTER COMPLEX.  NIGHT.

The complex is virtually empty - only a handful of the hundreds

of PROGRAMMERS working late into the night.  IRENE approaches

JEROME's work station on the pretext of delivering some

documents.  Trying to act casually, she looks under the papers

on his desk, then opens the top desk drawer.

We see an EXTREME CLOSE UP of the comb lying there - the two

hairs trapped between the teeth of the comb.  Irene removes one

of the follicles and drops it into an envelope she is carrying.

INT.  24-HOUR SEQUENCING LAB.  NIGHT.

"SEQUENCING-WHILE-U-WAIT".  Similar to a 1-hour photo lab, the

store - little more than a booth - displays a price list on the

wall.  "FULL SEQUENCE - $80".  IRENE waits in line with a cross-

section of other CUSTOMERS.  She checks the contents of the

envelope that contains the hair.

The YOUNG WOMAN in line ahead of her allows the TECHNICIAN to

take a swab from her full lips with a Q-tip.

Overhearing, several PEOPLE in the line snicker.

The technician hands the swab to an ASSISTANT.  The Young Woman

is handed a number and takes a seat.  Irene hands her envelope

over the counter.  She too is handed a number.  We follow

Jerome's follicle as another TECHNICIAN places it in an

analyzing machine.

INT/EXT.  SEQUENCING LAB / PARKING LOT.  NIGHT.

The TECHNICIAN returns the envelope to IRENE along with a

miniature compact disc.

Irene does not appear to share the technician's enthusiasm.

She emerges from the sequencing lab and enters her car.  Taking

a palm-top computer from her purse, she inserts the disc into

the computer.  Jerome's counterfeit genetic profile appears on

the screen.  The details confirm her worst fears.

EXT.  MICHAEL'S DINNER CLUB.  NIGHT.

JEROME and EUGENE, dressed to the nines, pull up in the car

to a darkened doorway in a poorly lit street.  A VALET appears

out of the shadows.  Familiar with the car, he goes immediately

to the trunk to retrieve Eugene's collapsible wheelchair.

Jerome tips the valet - a credit card wiped through a device.

INT.  MICHAEL'S DINNER CLUB.  NIGHT.

The chic, elegant establishment inside belies its darkened

exterior.  JEROME wheels EUGENE into a decadent dinner club

full of an odd assortment of people.  They are immediately

greeted respectfully by MICHAEL, the owner and maitre d'.

Jerome and Eugene are obviously regulars.

INT.  MICHAEL'S DINNER CLUB.  NIGHT.

In a secluded booth JEROME and EUGENE toast from a bottle of

1999 vintage Bordeaux.  Eugene drinks longer than Jerome.

Jerome dabs his mouth with a napkin.  He fails to notice a

minute FLAKE OF SKIN dislodged from his chin.  We follow the

flake as it comes to rest beneath the table.

LATER, Eugene and Jerome watch COUPLES dancing a samba on the

dance floor.  A WAITER vacuums the table with a discreet,

handheld miniature vacuum while a WAITRESS clears the plates.

She accidentally drops a knife onto Eugene's leg.

Eugene, the worse for drink, gropes for the waitress's leg but

she easily avoids his clumsy pass.

Jerome, always aware, scanning the club, suddenly spies

NAPOLEON, his Gattaca colleague, on the other side of the

room.  Napoleon is taking a hit from a vial concealed in his

hand.  Jerome abruptly turns his back to avoid being recognized.

INT/EXT.  CAR.  NIGHT.

Driving along the freeway, Jerome's car suddenly dives down an

escape road.  EUGENE looks sideways at JEROME.

INT/EXT.  CAR.  NIGHT.

The car careens around and around a small circular building -

a cloud of dust billowing up behind the car.  We focus on a

BRICK wedged against the car's gas pedal.

EUGENE is at the wheel, JEROME in the passenger seat.

The hard turn is repeated with increasing recklessness, Eugene

fighting to control the bucking car.

Finally the car spins to a halt in a cloud of dust.  When the

dust settles it is revealed that they have been circling the

base of a huge satellite dish in a desolate location.

EXT.  SATELLITE DISH.  NIGHT.

EUGENE lies on the hood of the car, leaning against the

windshield, drinking from a bottle of vodka.  In the

background, the unmanned satellite dish.  JEROME relieves

himself against the building at the base of the satellite.

Eugene spies a spacecraft launching from Gattaca city.

Jerome doesn't bother to look in the direction of the craft but

merely glances to his watch.  He joins Eugene on the hood of the

car.

Eugene laughs to himself and passes the bottle to Jerome.

Jerome taps Eugene's lifeless legs with his foot.

INT.  CRIME LABORATORY - AUTOPSY ROOM.  NIGHT.

The body and clothing of the MISSION DIRECTOR, lying on a metal

examining table is scanned with a blue-light magnifying

instrument.  Fingernail specimens are taken for analysis.  In

another area of the laboratory, the labelled vacuum bags are

attached to analyzers and the contents sucked out and

automatically identified.  ID names and photographs of GATTACA

EMPLOYEES begin appearing on a computer screen at high speed

along with other personal details - all data automatically

logged for later review.

The photographs and personal details of JEROME and IRENE flash

past, amongst the faces of other employees.

We focus on a magnified close up of JEROME'S EYELASH, still

clinging stubbornly to the side of its specimen bag.  We

continue to follow its journey as it is finally sucked into the

analyzer.

INT.  CRIME LAB - ANALYZER MACHINE.  NIGHT.

Inside the machine, a minute, cell-thin sliver is sliced from

JEROME'S EYELASH and analyzed.

INT.  INVESTIGATOR'S CRIME LAB.  NIGHT.

A severed HUMAN TONGUE sits on a tray in a sterile, sealed

chamber.  Using gloves that protrude through the chamber's glass

wall, face buried in a binocular eyepiece, the INVESTIGATOR

takes a swab from the tongue.

A FEMALE ASSISTANT, looking on, hardly has time to smile at the

remark before information begins to appear on a nearby computer

terminal.  The computer gradually builds a portrait of the owner

of the tongue using genetic predictors.  The Investigator

wanders over to the window as his Assistant reads the

information from the screen.

The INVESTIGATOR is alerted by the chime of his nearby computer.

On the screen, he discovers the face of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT

and the accompanying flashing message:

883000181105-10  - NEW DATA -

INT.  CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX - PARKING GARAGE.  NIGHT.

Having plugged his car into an overnight charger, JEROME pushes

EUGENE in his wheelchair to the elevator.  Bottle in hand,

Eugene leans over and vomits on the ground.  Jerome shakes his

head resignedly.  Eugene looks drunkenly up at Jerome.

Jerome meets Eugene's gaze.  There is a trace of bitterness

in Eugene's drunken smile.

Eugene bends down to scoop up some vomit with his hand but the

elevator arrives and Jerome quickly wheels him away.  Eugene's

head flops to the side as he passes out.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

JEROME unlocks EUGENE's condo and wheels his chair inside.  We

see their reflection in a full-length mirror as Jerome pushes

Eugene to the bedroom.  After removing Eugene's soiled clothing,

he heaves the tall man from the chair and onto the bed.

Jerome looks at Eugene's lifeless legs, trying to cover his

shock at the revelation.

Eugene's head falls back onto the pillow.

But Eugene does not reply, drifting into sleep once again.

Jerome pulls a blanket over him.

On the verge of leaving, Jerome's attention is drawn to a wall

on the far side of the room.  Approaching the wall, near

Eugene's mirrored closet, he detects a faint mechanical whir

coming from inside the adjacent condominium.  Jerome

contemplates investigating but exits the condominium instead

- climbing the spiral staircase to his own condominium.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDO - LIVING ROOM.  NIGHT.

JEROME fastidiously vacuums with an upright cleaner.  Using a

hose attachment he cleans around a picture frame that contains

Jerome's original computer keyboard handdrawn on the flap of a

cardboard box.

INT. GATTACA - COMPUTER COMPLEX.  DAY.

In the vast room of COMPUTER PROGRAMMERS we pull-focus to

discover that we have been filming the complex through the

transparent specimen bag containing JEROME'S EYELASH.

On the mezzanine floor overlooking the scene of the crime,

the INVESTIGATOR holds the bag, transfixed by the lash.  The

lead homicide detective, DETECTIVE HUGO, finishes interviewing

a GATTACA SECURITY GUARD and approaches the Investigator.

A large telescope in the background.

Although Hugo is deferential to his more youthful superior, his

body language betrays his displeasure.  Hugo clearly does not

relish the Investigator's involvement in his case.

Hugo refers to a print-out of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT's profile

including his Genetic Quotient.  (The fifteen-year-old photo of

Vincent now bears little resemblance to his assumed identity.)

Detective Hugo goes to comment further, then revises his

remark in his head before speaking.

The Investigator's tone suggests that the identity of the

culprit is no longer a matter for debate.  There is an awkward

pause before the Detective falls into step with his superior.

The Investigator merely shrugs.

We focus on JEROME at his work station.  Although he continues

to work, he clrarly feels the presence of the INVESTIGATORS on

the mezzanine floor behind him.

A MEDICAL DIRECTOR approaches the programmer in the neighboring

work station - NAPOLEON, the programmer Jerome encountered in

the nightclub the previous evening.

Napoleon looks up, ashen-faced.  Jerome intervenes.

The Director regards both men suspiciously.

The Medical Director departs.  Napoleon, stunned by the

reprieve, approaches Jerome's work station and pretends to

study the program on his computer screen.

INT.  GATTACA - TESTING LAB.  DAY.

From behind we observe JEROME standing in front of LAMAR,

issuing forth his steady stream of fraudulent urine.

EXT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION - WORKOUT CENTER.  DAY.

Twenty GATTACA EMPLOYEES, identically-outfitted men and women,

run in a perfectly straight line towards the tranquil lake of

the picturesque grounds, never getting any closer to their goal.

They run at a steady 10mph on twenty identical state-of-the-art

treadmill machines sunken into the floor and arranged in a

uniform row facing a floor to ceiling window.  The strain is

beginning to show on many of the faces.  The heartrate of each

employee is monitored via a wireless electrode attached to the

chest.

Outside in the sunshine the next batch of twenty EMPLOYEES

limbers up in readiness for their physical.  JEROME's only

preparation consists of thoughtfully dragging on a

cigarette while staring out at the man-made lake.  His

nonchalant attitude disheartens nearby colleagues, including

IRENE who is amongst a group of workers excused from the run

by benevolent, over-protective TRAINERS.

On the way into the work-out facility Jerome stubs out his

cigarette in a stainless steel ashtray.  Only we are aware of

the slim credit card-sized recording device that he furtively

slips out of his cigarette pack and secrets in his hand.  As he

takes his place on one of the treadmills and adheres the

cordless electrode to his chest, Jerome surreptitiously attaches

his device to the underside of the running machine's control

panel.

INT.  GATTACA - WORK-OUT OBSERVATION ROOM.  DAY.

From a mezzanine floor above the work-out room, LAMAR, the

medical officer, monitors computer read-outs displaying the

pace and pulse of the runners on each treadmill machine.

INT. GATTACA - WORK-OUT CENTER.  DAY.

One by one the GATTACA EMPLOYEES drop out until JEROME is the

sole remaining runner.  Several of the other employees stand

around and watch Jerome run as they towel off.

He appears under little duress, staring directly ahead,

seemingly in a trance.  As we focus on his chest, only we are

aware of the sound of his furiously pounding heart making a lie

of his calm exterior.

INT.  GATTACA - WORK-OUT OBSERVATION ROOM.  DAY.

Jerome's heart registers a far more measured beat on the

computer in the observation room.  The DIRECTOR is at LAMAR's

shoulder, beaming proudly.

The INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO enter the observation room,

escorted by IRENE.

The two men exchange a polite handshake.  However the

Investigator is immediately taken with the SOLE RUNNER with his

back to him, on the treadmill below.

On the treadmill below, Jerome glances to his watch as he runs,

the distress starting to show.  Caught up in the conversation,

Lamar has forgotten to end the work-out.  Remembering, he

finally presses the "WARM-DOWN" button, slowing the treadmill.

We focus on Jerome's recording device attached to the bottom of

the control panel.  It clicks to a stop, indicating that the

bogus heartbeat recording has ended before the workout.

The heartbeat monitor in the observation room suddenly races

from 80 to 250 beats per minute.  Lamar catches the discrepancy

out of the corner of his eye but before he can take a second

look, Jerome has whipped his electrode from his chest.  The

physician shrugs it off as a glitch in the machine.

The Investigator has turned his back on Jerome to face the

Director.

In the room below, Jerome nonchalantly steps off the treadmill,

stealthily retrieves the recording device from beneath the

control panel and returns it to his cigarette pack.

He casually wipes off drops of sweat from the machine with a

towel, briefly glances to Irene with the Investigators and exits

to the locker room.

The Director idly regards the image of VINCENT on Hugo's

handheld screen.  He does not recognize the face.

INT.  GATTACA - LOCKER ROOM.  DAY.

JEROME wears his assured smile all the way along the corridor

and into the now empty locker room.  He exchanges a cheery

greeting with an exiting COLLEAGUE, enters a shower stall,

closes the door behind him and promptly collapses on the shower

stall floor.

The effects of the gruelling work-out are only now apparent.  No

longer sucking up the pain, he gulps air into his oxygen-starved

lungs, his heart looking for a way through his tightened chest.

He writhes in agony on the white-tiled floor - a brutal reminder

of the physical frailty he seeks to disguise.

EXT.  GATTACA - GARDEN.  LUNCHTIME.

In Gattaca's perfectly landscaped gardens JEROME, dressed and

recovered from his ordeal, joins his COLLEAGUES for lunch at one

of the umbrella-covered tables.  While most of the others pick

at unappetizing salads and take their individualized medication,

Jerome carries a steak sandwich on his tray.

The sight of the juicy steak is greeted with envious looks from

his colleagues.  Jerome pretends not to notice and rubs it in by

liberally sprinkling salt onto the meat.

However when Jerome looks over towards IRENE, she avoids eye

contact.  When she abruptly gets up and leaves, Jerome follows -

thinking twice before depositing the napkin in the nearby

trashcan.  A janitor reaches for the napkin.  It is the Old

Janitor, CAESAR, from Jerome's former life.

The two men exchange a conspiratorial smile.

EXT.  GATTACA - WIND FARM.  AFTERNOON.

A forest of wind turbines, supplying energy to the aerospace

complex.  However the blades of the turbines are motionless in

the still afternoon.  JEROME finally catches up with IRENE.  She

turns, unsurprised by his appearance.  Standing beside her, he

looks out over the complex as if he too has come for the view.

Irene, also keeps her gaze ahead.

Jerome turns to her, startled, trying to read her face.  Irene

takes a deep breath and abruptly plucks a long, dark hair from

her head.

Jerome, confused, takes the hair - more in reflex than intent.

Jerome contemplates the hair in his fingers for a moment, then

deliberately lets it fall to the grounf.

Irene meets his gaze.  There is not a breath of wind.  The

hair lies, plainly visible on the ground.

EXT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE COMPLEX.  AFTERNOON.

As JEROME and IRENE walk between the wind turbines, Jerome

pretends not to notice that Irene keeps furtively checking the

pulse on her wrist.  They pause in the shade.

Jerome turns away to disguise his alarm.  He quickly recovers.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDO.  NIGHT.

EUGENE talks irritably on the phone, examining a container from

a newly opened case of hair bleach.

JEROME descends the staircase, taking the steps two at a time.

He immediately goes to the refrigerator, removing trays of

samples.  Eugene abruptly hangs up the phone.

Eugene wheels himself over to Jerome, unconcerned.

Jerome half-smiles despite the situation.

Jerome slumps down in a chair, Eugene's tirade starting to get

to him.

Eugene is uncomfortable at the notion.

Jerome shrugs awkwardly and pours them both a drink.

INT. CONDOMINIUM - INCINERATOR.  NIGHT.

The naked JEROME scrapes away at his skin with even greater

ferocity than usual.  After exiting the incinerator, he deposits

all the incriminating trash he has collected during the day into

the furnace and ignites the gas.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

From outside, a car horn sounds.  JEROME, in a formal suit and

spectacles, abruptly enters the condominium.  He goes to a

closet and starts searching through Eugene's clothes.

EUGENE is more interested in the car parked outside the

condominium.  IRENE sits in a convertible Citroen DS, dressed in

a classic but provocative black suit.  Unaware that she is being

observed she touches up her lipstick in the rearview mirror.

Jerome fumbles with the knot.  From his chair, Eugene knots

Jerome's tie for him.  Jerome is intrigued that for once Eugene

is abstaining - he has not touched his drink.

Jerome pockets the spectacles and enters the bathroom for his

contact lenses.  The horn sounds outside the window a second

time and Jerome hastily exits.  We stay with Eugene.  Irene

catches a glimpse of him before he moves away from the window.

Jerome emerges from the building.

As the couple drive away, Eugene wheels himself to the full

length mirror.  He regards his own reflection for a moment and

opens the mirror - a disguised door opening into the adjacent

apartment.  A cloud of condensed water vapor billows out.

GERMAN, the DNA Broker, emerges with an ENGINEER.

He sends the engineer on his way and joins Eugene at his desk.

Eugene hands German a credit card that he wipes through his

computer.

INT. CONCERT HALL - AUDITORIUM.  NIGHT.

JEROME and IRENE step over feet, apologizing as they go,

eventually finding their seats in a box in a sold-out concert

hall.

On the stage below, a YOUNG PIANIST - a teenage prodigy - has

already taken his place at the keys of a grand piano.  The

pianist removes his white gloves and begins to play - an

extremely complex and beautiful piece we have never heard

before.  IRENE looks to JEROME.  He is clearly caught up in the

music.

EXT.  IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT.  NIGHT.

The music from the piano recital continues under the following

contrasting action.  A huge, brooding housing project.  PEOPLE

hang around on street corners.  Menace in the air - a feeling of

impending violence.

Suddenly unmarked police cars appear from all directions,

blocking any escape route.  Dozens of PLAINCLOTHES DETECTIVES

pour out of the cars and onto the street.

People scatter, many running straight into the arms of the

Detectives.  OTHERS, spilling out of the housing project, are

also immediately apprehended.

The Detectives quickly weed out those suspects not fitting

Jerome's description - WOMEN, OLD MEN and TEENAGERS.  They are

shepherded off the street.  A line of IN-VALIDS is formed

several hundred yards long.  Detectives begin to laboriously

move along the line, taking finger-prick blood samples from each

suspect - instantly confirming their identities with portable

analyzers worn on their hips.

As if having the idea at the same time, TWO SEPARATE MEN

suddenly bolt from the line, knowing that their blood will

incriminate them.  Other Detectives, watching for such escape

attempts, esaily apprehend them and escort them to a waiting

police van.

With the raid under control, DETECTIVE HUGO indicates to the

INVESTIGATOR that it is safe to exit his car.  The Investigator

appears irritated, only half-glancing at the TWO MEN already in

custody, apparently certain that neither one is his suspect.

The Investigator clearly does not share Hugo's enthusiasm.  The

Detective offers the Investigator an age enhanced photograph,

computer-generated from the last existing photo of VINCENT as

a 20-year-old.

The Investigator ignores the photo, preferring instead to trust

his own eye as he wanders along the line of suspects.

The MEN they scrutinize are hardly mutants - the differences

between an IN-VALID and a DAN are subtle at best.  Some shorter,

some wearing glasses, some with receding hairlines or bald, many

with no discernable physical difference at all.  The

Investigator is only halfway down the line before he turns and

starts walking back to his car.

The mystified Detective Hugo follows his superior.

The Investigator wheels on Hugo, suddenly angry, clearly unused

to having his judgement questioned.

INT.  CONCERT HALL.  NIGHT.

A standing ovation.  The YOUNG PIANIST on the stage bows deeply,

soaking up the applause of the AUDIENCE.  The pianist tosses one

of his white gloves into the front row where it is caught by an

adoring FAN.  The second glove he tosses up to the box where

JEROME and IRENE are standing.  Jerome snares the glove out of

the air and immediately hands it to Irene.  She promptly slips

the glove on her own hand.

The glove fits snugly over her five fingers.  However one finger

of the glove remains unfilled.  Jerome is stunned to realize

that it is a six-fingered glove.

He quickly turns away to lead the applause.  On stage, the

pianist raises his hands to acknowledge the crowd.  Both his

hands contain a perfectly formed extra finger.

INT.  IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT - PROSTITUTE'S BOUDOIR.  NIGHT.

From an upstairs window we observe the INVESTIGATOR's car

cruise slowly back into the squalid housing project.  A MAN is

buckling his pants at the window.

A prostitute, VALERIE, a slender, sylphlike beauty, joins him at

the window.

Her client looks at her askance.  Despite her assurances, he

hurries into his clothes anyway.

INT.  IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT - PROSTITUTE'S BOUDOIR.  NIGHT.

The INVESTIGATOR, sits up in the bed, glass in his hand.

VALERIE lies on the tangled sheets, naked, making no effort to

cover herself.  She regards the Investigator curiously.

The Investigator glances idly in her direction.

The Investigator smiles and rejoins her on the bed.

The Investigator tries to laugh off her assertion but his

tight-lipped smile betrays his displeasure.

He roughly forces himself on top of her but she remains defiant.

INT/EXT.  IRENE'S CAR.  NIGHT.

IRENE drives, JEROME at her side.  Cars are being flagged down

by uniformed POLICE OFFICERS.  Irene slows down behind the car

in front.  Spying an OFFICER shine a flashlight in the eyes of

the MALE DRIVER up ahead, Jerome wipes the contact lenses from

his eyes and flicks them out of the passenger window when Irene

is not looking.

An OFFICER approaches Jerome and, without a word, opens an

electronic testing kit worn on his hip.  He removes a sterilized

Q-tip and motions for Jerome to open his mouth so he can scrape

a culture.  Jerome waves his hand in front of his mouth,

feigning embarrassment.

IRENE plays along, shrugging coyly at the cop.

We see an EXTREME CLOSE UP of Jerome's hand as he furtively

retrieves a hair follicle attached to his shirt cuff.  With the

hair already in his fingers, he pretends to pluck a hair from

his head, faking a wince at the appropriate moment.

The cop, wearing transparent latex gloves, takes the follicle

and places it in a receptacle in his kit.  After a short moment

the hair confirms JEROME's driving ID which appears on the kit's

electronic screen.  As the cop departs, Irene looks

questioningly at Jerome.

Irene nods, however clearly not convinced.  She shakes the doubt

from her mind.

She accelerates away.  We see the road ahead from Jerome's POV.

Without his contact lenses, it is a blur.

INT.  MICHAEL'S CLUB.  NIGHT.

After closing time, suited DETECTIVES vacuum the club in which

Jerome and Eugene dined the previous evening.  MICHAEL, the

owner, looks on disdainfully.  Waiting in the background, the

regular CLEANERS - most likely In-valids themselves - smirk to

each other, enjoying watching the cops do their work for them.

EXT.  OCEAN HIGHWAY.  NIGHT.

With no place to turn the car around, IRENE parks on the cliff

side of the six-lane highway.  In the darkness she dashes from

the car and, without a second thought, runs directly out into

the heavy commuter traffic.  Easily negotiating the on-coming

cars, she emerges safely on the other side of the highway.

JEROME, rounding the car from the passenger side, is about to

follow, when he suddenly pulls up sharply at the curb.  We focus

on his eyes, deprived of the benefit of their contact lenses.

From Jerome's POV, we see that the headlights rushing towards

him are nothing but a series of fast-moving blurs - blurs that

merge together.  He is unable to distinguish between the

vehicles or judge their distance.

Irene stares expectantly back at Jerome with her 20/20 vision,

unaware of his predicament.  Jerome puts a foot off the curb at

the wrong moment and is almost collected by an on-coming car.

Irene is taken-aback at his mistiming.  Does she detect a squint

on Jerome's face?  To Jerome, the figure of Irene on the other

side of the highway is merely a featureless shape but he feels

her expectation.  He touches the spectacles, still in his

pocket, but they are an unthinkable option.

He shakes the idea from his head and turns back to the swiftly-

flowing highway.  He makes up his mind - he cannot allow himself

to be shamed, even at the risk of life and limb.  Hardly even

glancing at the traffic, he suddenly bolts blindly across the

road.  Headlights hurtling towards him, cars fortuitously

brushing past his heels, horns blaring.  Jerome makes a final

leap to the haven of the far curb, the rush of air from a large,

fast-moving truck blowing him the final inches to the sidewalk.

Irene is stunned by the near miss.  She is about to comment but

Jerome takes her by the arm and ushers her towards the dunes.

EXT.  BEACH.  DAWN.

JEROME and IRENE huddle beneath an overcoat as the sun crests

the horizon, staining the sky with an ochre blush.

Jerome nods.  However, to his eyes the rising yolk is nothing

but an out-of-focus, abstract ink blot.

Irene turns to Jerome.

Irene suddenly takes Jerome's hand and puts it up her

sweater, onto her breast.  Although taken aback, Jerome makes

no effort to withdraw his hand.

Jerome's mouth drops a little, betraying his surprise at the

statement from a woman plainly still in her twenties.

INT.  POOL.  MORNING.

The INVESTIGATOR swims his race with the unseen opponent.  The

Investigator's ASSISTANT, carrying a phone, tries to attract his

attention.

EXT.  JEROME'S POOL.  MORNING.

JEROME sits at his own poolside in his robe, feet dangling over

the edge, smoking a cigarette.  EUGENE, from his wheelchair, is

applying bleach to Jerome's hair and eyebrows with gloved

hands.

At the same time, Jerome plays a sleight-of-hand game with a

syringe.

The camera travels down Jerome's scarred legs to find that the

pool is completely drained.  We now realize that it never

contained water.

A BARREN WASTELAND.

A desolate landscape, resembling the surface of the planet Mars.

We pull back to find that we are peering at this forbidding

desert through a circular aperture.

INT.  CRIME LAB.  DAY.

The INVESTIGATOR lifts his head from the eyepiece of an

electron microscope through which he has been examining a tiny

fragment of skin - the skin is identified as belonging to 20-

YEAR-OLD VINCENT.  DETECTIVE HUGO stands at the Investigator's

side - his attitude more respectful in light of the discovery.

Detective Hugo points out a location on a computer-generated

map.

The Investigator understands the significance.  They wander over

to a blow-up photograph of the 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT.

A smile gradually broadens across the Investigator's face.

The Investigator appears not to be listening, his mind made up.

Hugo's mouth drops open at the mention of "intravenous".

The Investigator turns on his heel to prevent further protest.

The Detective and his ASSISTANTS exchange looks of exasperation

behind the Investigator's back.

INT.  GATTACA.  DAY.

JEROME, drinking water, stands in front of a large video

bulletin board.  Among other things, it displays the electronic

mugshot of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT alongside the recent computer

generated age enhancement of his face.

Some distance away, CAESAR, the elderly janitor, discusses the

mugshots with a YOUNGER JANITOR.

Jerome half-smiles, realizing that the conversation is for his

benefit.  Having made it clear that they do not intend to expose

their former colleague, the two janitors continue their rounds.

Jerome crushes his paper cup.  Forgetting himself, he

drops the cup into the wastebasket.

INT.  CRAFT.  DAY.

JEROME familiarizes himself with the interior of a spacecraft

under the supervision of DIRECTOR JOSEF and the MISSION

COMMANDER.  The screen that Jerome sits at is identical to the

one he operates in the computer complex - displaying asteroid

951 Gaspra.

Irene enters the craft.

Jerome exits the craft with Irene.

INT.  GATTACA CORPORATION - CORRIDOR.  DAY.

A line of MALE GATTACA EMPLOYEES snakes out the door and down

the corridor.  The INVESTIGATOR walks slowly down the line,

trying to eyeball his suspect.  Concentrating on the shorter,

dark-haired men in the line, he looks straight past JEROME.

However, as the Investigator ignores him and walks by, we see a

haunted look in Jerome's eyes.

INT.  GATTACA - TESTING LAB.  DAY.

Every available TECHNICIAN is working to accommodate the testing

of the thousand or so PROGRAMMERS.  Twelve testing stations

operate simultaneously.  A HOMICIDE DETECTIVE supervises each

station.  JEROME reaches the head of the line.  He notes an

exiting COLLEAGUE holding a cotton ball to his arm.

A NURSE directs Jerome to LAMAR's testing station.  Lamar

deposits the previous patient's labeled vial into a blood

carousel under the watchful eye of a large DETECTIVE, clearly

not relishing his assignment.  Jerome rolls up his sleeve.

The syringes are clearly not Lamar's idea.

Lamar inserts a fresh syringe into Jerome's arm.  As Lamar draws

the blood, Jerome suddenly flinches and flexes his arm

violently, causing the needle to bend and buckle, exiting the

skin from a second puncture point.

Having pulled away from Lamar's grasp, Jerome withdraws the bent

needle himself, blood still squirting from his vein.

The large Homicide Detective winces and turns away from the red

arcing spray, a splash of blood spattering his shoes.  In the

midst of the commotion, with his practised sleight-of-hand,

Jerome removes the vial from the syringe and replaces it with

another concealed vial.

Lamar hurriedly takes the syringe from Jerome.

The Detective notices the spatter of blood across his brogues

and, with a look of disdain, wipes it clean.  He tosses the

incriminating tissue down a hygenically sealed garbage shoot.

Lamar places Jerome's labelled vial in the carousel where it is

immediately analyzed by the computer.  Jerome's "legitimate"

Employee ID code appears on the screen -

EMPLOYEE enters the testing lab.

INT.  GATTACA.  DAY.

JEROME exits the testing lab with the gauze held to his arm.

IRENE is standing outside the door.

INT.  GATTACA - MEZZANINE FLOOR.  LATER IN THE DAY.

From above, the INVESTIGATOR and HUGO observe the final EMPLOYEE

exit the testing lab.

LAMAR, following the employee out of the lab, throws a look of

vindication to the two cops.

The INVESTIGATOR turns his back on his subordinate and idly

contemplates the nearby telescope.  Hugo resignedly relays the

news to Director Josef who is standing some distance away.

Josef's immediate reaction is to march towards the Investigator,

Hugo trailing behind.  DIRECTOR JOSEF collects himself as he

notices the Investigator's hand on the telescope.

Director Josef quietly seethes.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY.

JEROME readies himself for an evening out - a bandage around his

arm from the needle puncture.  EUGENE wheels himself in.

Jerome ignores the remark.

Eugene looks at him askance.

INT.  MICHAEL'S CLUB.  NIGHT.

IRENE and JEROME step off the dance floor of the smoky, decadent

dinner club and take a seat at their table.  Irene is agog at

the strange assortment of PATRONS, the cigars, the laden dessert

trolleys.  It is all slightly off from the pristine world she is

accustomed to.

Jerome selects a chocolate torte from the trolley.  Jerome

savors a spoonful.  Irene is tempted but then remembers herself.

She reaches for her elegant pill box.  Jerome takes another

spoonful.

Irene goes to deny it but cannot.

MICHAEL suddenly approaches the table with a WAITER in tow.

Irene is about to steal a taste of the dessert with her finger

when their plates and glasses are whisked away and the table

immediately hoovered.  Michael whispers in Jerome's ear.

Jerome looks up in time to see DETECTIVE HUGO coming through the

front entrance with several other DETECTIVES.

A Detective shines a flashlight in the eyes of a MALE PATRON.

A SECOND DETECTIVE tugs the hair of a SECOND PATRON.  Jerome

takes Irene by the hand and escorts her out of the side exit.

Several other COUPLES make for the parking lot.

EXT.  MICHAEL'S CLUB - SIDE ALLEY.  NIGHT.

Spilling out of the exit, JEROME and IRENE find a burly

plain clothes DETECTIVE barring their way.  Before the Detective

can say a word, Jerome has wrapped his fist in his jacket sleeve

and smashed him in the face.  He continues to beat the Detective

until he lies motionless on the ground.

Spying other Detectives some distance away in the parking lot.

Jerome leads Irene out of a hidden side gate.

Jerome drags Irene across a vast, desolate lot, lit only by

moonlight.  Feeling exposed, he breaks into a run.

Irene realizes his seriousness.  She begins to run with him.

The clearing is wider than Jerome anticipated.  They are only

halfway across - extremely vulnerable if the Detective think yo

look in their direction.

INT.  MICHAEL'S.  NIGHT.

The INVESTIGATOR is grilling MICHAEL, the club's owner.  The

investigator suspiciously regards the multitude of mini-vacs in

the kitchen and the incinerator burning the refuse.

Hugo calls out from the side door where he has discovered

his fallen colleague.

The Investigator hurries to him.

Hugo uses a flashlight and a small dental-like implement to try

to pick skin from Jerome's knuckles from between the Detective's

teeth.  The Investigator finds the hidden side door.

EXT.  DESOLATE LOT.  NIGHT.

JEROME and IRENE continue to sprint across the enormous vacant

lot in the moonlight, splashing through deposits of mud and

water.  Just as the gate opens in the distance, Jerome hurls

Irene into the safety of the undergrowth on the other side.

Irene, out of breath, desperately feels for her pulse.

Jerome tenderly removes Irene's hand from her pulse.

Irene looks back across the vast clearing they have just

negotiated, realizing what she has just done.

From across the other side of the clearing comes an echoing

cry from the center FIGURE.

EXT.  MICHAEL'S.  NIGHT.

The INVESTIGATOR is about to cry out Vincent's name once again

when he realizes DETECTIVE HUGO and the other DETECTIVES are

watching him, askance.

The Investigator carefully examines the heart pills.

EXT.  IRENE'S APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

JEROME walks IRENE to the steps of her apartment.  Jerome thinks

about departing but Irene takes him gently by the hand.

Jerome follows her inside.

INT.  IRENE'S BEDROOM.  NIGHT.

JEROME and IRENE climb a staircase to her bedroom.  Without

another word they begin to make love.

LATER THAT NIGHT, JEROME cannot sleep.  He rises quietly so as

not to disturb IRENE.  He silently opens the double-windows of

the upstairs bedroom.  He carefully gathers his pillow from the

bed and shakes it out of the window.

Slowly Jerome turns to gaze at the wood floor.  In the moonlight

we see an EXTREME CLOSE UP of a single hair lying on the

floorboards.  Jerome bends and picks up the hair, trying to

identify it in the dim light.  On his hands and knees he tries

to clean the floor with a towel.  Irene turns over in the

bed.  Jerome freezes but she continues to sleep.  He realizes he

may be spreading even more of his skin and hair over the floor.

Overcome with frustration and the enormity of his task, he

begins to quietly weep.

EXT.  A FIELD.  DAWN.

A light shroud of mist hangs over the trees that encircle a

grassy clearing beyond Irene's building.  Something lies in the

center of the clearing.

We jump-cut to an EXTREME CLOSE UP of two or three blades of

grass.  Bristles rain down on the blades.  Withotu access to his

incinerator, the crouched, naked figure of JEROME disposes of

his whiskers, skin and hair in an open field.  His clothes sit

in a neat pile at his side.  He pours glycolic acid over his

body and scrubs at his back, feet and hands with a brush.  There

is a haunted, tortured look in his eyes as he tries desperately

to rid himself of himself.

INT.  POOL.  MORNING.

The INVESTIGATOR swims obsessively in his aquatic treadmill.

INT.  IRENE'S APARTMENT.  LATER THAT MORNING.

Back in the bedroom, JEROME, partially dressed, holds IRENE

in bed.  She softly touches the scars on his shins.

Irene is taken aback by Jerome's passion, regarding him in a new

light.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  MORNING.

EUGENE urinates into a large plastic container while drinking

bottled water at the same time.  He already has several other

containers of urine on the table beside him.

INT.  GATTACA.  MORNING.

The INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO keep a wary eye on the

outfitted DETECTIVES re-vacuuming the empty computer complex

with their mini-vacs.

We dwell on one DETECTIVE in particular, snatching a garbage

bag from CAESAR, the janitor.

He puts a pile of discarded paper cups aside for later testing.

INT.  GATTACA CORPORATION.  LATER THAT MORNING.

In the vast, empty Gattaca complex the INVESTIGATOR inspects a

specimen bag containing Jerome's paper cup with DIRECTOR JOSEF

and DETECTIVE HUGO.

INT/EXT.  GATTACA.  MORNING.

JEROME and IRENE walk towards the entrance to Gattaca.  Spying

the Homicide Investigation trucks parked at the rear of the

building and the silhouette of the INVESTIGATOR in the doorway,

Jerome pulls up sharply.  Irene notices his unease.

Jerome kisses her.  Irene, also aware of the trucks,

interrogates Jerome with her eyes.

Jerome is still focussed on the entranceway.

Irene considers the idea.  She enters Gattaca alone.

INT.  GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION - COMPUTER COMPLEX.  DAY.

IRENE prepares a stack of ID photos of CREW MEMBERS for the

INVESTIGATOR.  She closely inspects the doctored photo of

JEROME, hesitating before adding it to the file.

The camera dwells on JEROME's vacant work station.  The

INVESTIGATOR curiously regards the empty chair.  He is

accompanied by DETECTIVE HUGO, DIRECTOR JOSEF and IRENE.

The INVESTIGATOR ignores Josef and takes a pocket knife from his

jacket.  He prises out the "ESC" key from Jerome's keyboard,

places the key in a specimen bag and deposits it in his jacket.

The Investigator gently but firmly removes the phone from

Irene's hand and replaces the receiver in the cradle.

The anxious Director Josef calls out to protest one further

time but the Investigator is on his way out of the door.

EXT.  STREET OUTSIDE GATTACA.  DAY.

Outside the entrance to Gattaca, trying to hail a taxi, JEROME

is startled to see a car carrying the INVESTIGATOR, DETECTIVE

HUGO and IRENE roar out of the driveway.  JEROME calls on his

portable wristphone.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY.

EUGENE, at his window, filling sachets as usual, hesitates

before answering the phone.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM / HALLWAY.  DAY.

With a look of resolve, EUGENE hangs up the phone.

He wheels his chair up to the sweeping staircase and regards the

first of many dozen steps.  The daunting staircase spirals away

above him.

INT.  INVESTIGATOR'S CAR.  DAY.

HUGO drives.  The INVESTIGATOR looks to IRENE in the rear seat.

He hands her the pill box found in Michael's.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDO/JEROME'S CONDO.  DAY.

Having wheeled his chair out of sight, EUGENE eases himself out

of his wheelchair and onto the floor.  Using his elbows,

commando-style, dragging his lifeless legs behind him, he

proceeds to crawl across the floor and up the first step of the

long spiral staircase.  We observe his agonizingly slow progress

up a staircase that, from Eugene's point of view, appears to

have doubled in length.

EXT.  CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX.  DAY.

The INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO emerge from their car with

IRENE in tow.  They take in the impressive complex - the

Investigator gets a glimpse of the empty pool.  They approach

the intercom at the entrance.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY.

EUGENE, bathed in sweat, finally crests the landing of the

staircase.  No respite.  As he drags himself across the floor

the internal phone rings.  He frantically stretches up and

knocks the phone off its hook so he can talk from his prone

position on the floor.

INT.  CONDOMINIUM - LOBBY.  DAY.

IRENE is on the phone, closely watched by the INVESTIGATOR and

DETECTIVE HUGO.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY.

With no mean effort, EUGENE finally manages to replace the phone

on its cradle.  He desperately crawls up onto the sofa.

However, spying the upright vacuum cleaner in the open closet,

he is forced to crawl there and remove the vacuum bag.  He

frantically crawls back towards the sofa and stuffs the bag

behind a cushion.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY.

IRENE enters the door deliberately left ajar, closely followed

by the INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO.  EUGENE is propped up on

the sofa, TV remote control placed in his useless hand to cover

his paralysis.  He has a stainless steel bowl next to him and

has crossed his lifeless legs for a more natural effect.  Eugene

calmy motions the confused Irene towards him.

The Investigator scrutinizes Irene's reaction.  With only the

merest hesitation she takes her cue from Eugene and kisses

him affectionately on the forehead.  She perches herself on the

arm of the sofa.  Eugene takes the opportunity to rest his

arm on her leg.

The Investigator slowly circles Eugene, regarding him with the

utmost scrutiny.  He compares his face to the doctored Gattaca

ID photo - a passable likeness.  Eugene bends towards the bowl

and dry retches.

Irene puts a comforting hand on Eugene's shoulder.

Detective Hugo takes a seat in the chair beside the sofa and

unpacks a syringe from the kit he carries.

Detective Hugo swabs Eugene's inner arm.  All eyes are trained

on the tip of the needle as it punctures the vein.

Under the Investigator's watchful eye, Detective Hugo withdraws

the syringe and immediately inserts a small amount of the blood

into the portable analyzer he wears.  Naturally, it confirms

that Eugene is Jerome.

Irene does her best to conceal her shock.  Hiding his

frustration, the Investigator distractedly tours the room while

Hugo packs up his gear.  The Investigator idly toys with

the telescope pointed out of the window.

Next he wanders towards the closet and reaches for the doorknob.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM - BATHROOM.  DAY.

The INVESTIGATOR immediately pulls a specimen bag from his

jacket pocket and closely inspects the stainless steel toilet

and sink.  They are both spotless.  The shower stall is also

scrupulously clean.  He flushes the toilet and exits.

Lost in thought, the INVESTIGATOR approaches the closet again

and wheels out Jerome's upright vacuum cleaner.  He is

disappointed a second time to find no vacuum bag inside.  The

Investigator returns the vacuum cleaner to the closet and

produces a mini-vac from Detective Hugo's crime bag.

The Investigator switches on the mini-vac to take a specimen

from the floor, then promptly kills the machine.  Looking down,

the Investigator notices the trail of Eugene's perspiration

on the highly polished floor leading to the spiral staircase.

Eugene, reading the Investigator's mind, goes to call out but

the words remain frozen on his tongue.  Hugo follows his

superior as they start to descend the stairs.  Irene and Eugene

are left staring at one another.

INT.  CONDO - STAIRCASE.  DAY.

JEROME catches the merest glimpse of the INVESTIGATOR and

DETECTIVE HUGO before he slips behind a doorway in Eugene's

condominium.

Jerome anxiously regards Eugene's empty wheelchair sitting

there.  On the stairs, Hugo's phone rings.

The Investigator is already at the foot of the stairs in

Eugene's condo when the Detective calls to him.

The Investigator's eyes light up.  He retraces his steps

up the staircase after Detective Hugo.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  DAY.

JEROME, white as a ghost, climbs the stairs, emerging into his

own condominium.  He embraces the beaming EUGENE, still sitting

on the sofa.

Jerome almost laughs, despite the situation.  Only now does he

notice Irene on the other side of the room, her mind racing.

She looks at Jerome and Eugene together and runs from the

apartment.

Jerome goes to follow but Eugene stops him.

INT.  CRIME LABORATORY.  DAY.

An EXTREME CLOSE UP of dried blood - brittle and cracking - on

a pair of soiled latex gloves.  A latex head mask, suit of

clothes and shoe covers are similarly caked.  The INVESTIGATOR

and DETECTIVE HUGO watch as a white-coated FORENSIC TECHNICIAN

feeds a minute sample of the dried blood into an analyzer.

The INVESTIGATOR wanders over to a one-way glass window through

which he can observe DIRECTOR JOSEF, sitting numb but strangely

serene in an interrogation room.  The Investigator, in a state

of shock himself, cannot yet bring himself to believe what is

plainly obvious.

The Detective regards his superior incredulously, intrigued that

he could still cling so stubbornly to his theory in the face of

such overwhelming evidence.

The Investigator turns away, unwilling or unable to accept the

explanation.  Hugo regards the Investigator with a trace of

sympathy.  He furtively retrieves the Investigator's tissue

from the trash.

INT.  GATTACA.  DAY.

JEROME sits in a formal briefing room with the other CREW

MEMBERS of his mission, receiving their final pre-flight

instructions.  LAMAR looks on approvingly.

Jerome looks up bashfully.

Polite smiles from his colleagues.

We focus on Jerome.  He appears to have his head in the heavens

already.

INT.  CRIME LAB.  NIGHT.

The tormented INVESTIGATOR lies on the floor of his lab, staring

at the ceiling.  he winces in discomfort.  He is lying on

something.  He rolls over and retrieves the irritation from his

pocket.  It is the "ESC" computer key he prized from Jerome's

keyboard.

He gazes at the key for a moment and then gets to his feet.  He

resurrects an old fingerprint kit from a cupboard.  Carefully

removing the key from the specimen bag - marked, "MORROW,

Jerome" - he begins to dust it for a fingerprint.

He places the key under a camera.  The enlarged print appears

on the lefthand side of his computer screen.  The word "MATCH"

blinks onto the screen.  However the face that appears from the

computer's databank is not that of "MORROW, Jerome" but

"LUCA, Vincent".  The Investigator regards the photograph in

disbelief.

DETECTIVE HUGO casually enters the lab, something odd in his

nonchalant demeanor.

Hugo puts a specimen bag on the counter.  It contains the

Investigator's discarded tissue.  The Investigator does

not recognize it.

The Investigator immediately deposits the tissue into an

analyzer.

The Investigator realizes the significance and looks guiltily

to Hugo.  Hugo exits the lab, leaving the Investigator to stare

at his own FACE in his analyzing machine.

INT.  GATTACA - JANITOR'S LOCKER ROOM.  NIGHT.

CAESAR, the old janitor, enters the locker room.  He is about to

wearily open his locker when he senses another presence in the

room.

He turns to find JEROME sitting there on a bench.  Although

clearly delighted, CAESAR tries to disguise his pleasure.

The two men embrace, Caesar breaking off before Jerome.

Jerome departs.  Caesar watches him go and turns back to his

locker.  He opens it to find a brand new, high-tech telescope

sitting inside.

The old janitor gets over his surprise and beams broadly -

he looks back in Jerome's direction but he has gone.  The

old janitor cannot help himself and reverently reaches for the

telescope's eyepiece.

INT.  GATTACA - COMPUTER COMPLEX.  NIGHT.

In the dimly-lit, empty computer complex, JEROME takes a last

look around.  He sits at his computer, one final time replaying

the graphic representation of his path through the cosmos that

he is on the eve of taking for real.

He notices the key missing from his keyboard.  Instantly

realizing the significance, he rises from his seat to flee.

Jerome is stopped in his tracks by the sound of his given name

and the voice that calls it.

He makes no further attempt to flee but turns to face his

pursuer.  The Investigator steps out of the shadows.

The two men face each other for the first time in a long

time.  The Investigator is transfixed by Jerome's face -

scarcely able to believe his eyes.

It is finally apparent the Investigator is Jerome's younger

brother Anton [AS WE SHALL REFER TO THE INVESTIGATOR FOR THE

REST OF THE FILM].

Jerome smiles at him condescendingly.

Anton is clearly stung by the memory.

Jerome regards Anton with a knowing smile.  Somewhere in Gattaca

a phone rings.

INT/EXT.  IRENE'S CAR OUTSIDE CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX.  NIGHT.

IRENE, sitting in her car outside Jerome's condominium, hangs up

her portable phone.  In her agitation, her finger involuntarily

goes to her pulse.  She catches herself and removes the finger

from her wrist as if it has burned her.  She exits the car.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM/EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

IRENE quietly knocks on Jerome's door but there is no response.

Trying the handle, the door opens.  Her curiosity takes her

inside.  All is quiet.  IRENE calls out.

No reply.  Irene hesitantly ventures further, drawn to the

spiral staircase.  She tentatively makes her way down the stairs

and into Eugene's dimly lit condominium.  With wonder and

reverence, she examines the instruments and samples laid out on

Eugene's work benches.  She opens the refrigerator in the

bathroom and inspects the samples and sachets.  Finally she

regards the empty incinerator.

Irene turns.

Eugene has entered through the mirrored door, not at all

displeased by her unexpected visit.

Eugene idly inspects one of the blood sachets.

Irene's hand involuntarily goes to her heart.

Irene turns back to the incinerator, lost in though.

EXT.  BEACH.  NIGHT.

JEROME and ANTON walk down a dune together towards the beach not

far from Gattaca - an ocean beach pounded by an angry, black

sea.  Jerome picks up a sharp piece of shell and slices the end

of his thumb.  A drop of blood oozes out.  He offers the shell

to Anton but Anton does not take it.

Both men begin to disrobe.  The brothers stand beside each other

on the sand once again - Anton still the more athletically-built

of the two.

Together, they enter the raging surf.  Diving through the

breaking waves, they begin to swim.

In the moonlit night, we watch their two bodies swimming side by

side.  They swim a long distance, Anton waiting for his brother

to tire.  But the pace does not slacken.  Anton pulls up in the

water.  Sensing his brother is no longer beside him, Jerome also

pulls up.  They tread water several yards apart.

Jerome swims away a second time.  Anton is forced to follow

once again.  Angry now, gritting his teeth, Anton calls

upon the same determination we have witnessed during his

constant swimming in the pool.  He puts on a spurt, slowly

reeling in Jerome.

Anton gradually draws alongside Jerome, certain that this effort

will demoralize his older brother.  But Jerome has been foxing -

waiting for him to catch up.  Jerome smiles at Anton.  With

almost a trace of sympathy, he forges ahead again.  Anton is

forced to go with him.  They swim again for a long distance.

It is Anton who gradually becomes demoralized - his strokes

weaken, his will draining away.  Anton pulls up, exhausted and

fearful.  Jerome also pulls up.  However his face displays none

of Anton's anxiety.

They tread water several yards apart.  The ocean is choppier

now.  The view of the lights on the shore is obscured by the

peaks of the waves.

Anton looks towards the empty horizon.

Jerome merely smiles back at his younger brother, a disturbingly

serene smile.

Anton stares at Jerome, aghast.  The two men face each other in

silence, treading water several yards apart in the dark, rolling

ocean.

Jerome turns and heads back towards the shore.  Anton is left

alone with the terrifying realization.  The only sound, the wind

and the water.

EXT.  CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

JEROME, dishevelled and distressed, arrives back at the

condominium.  He notices IRENE standing at the edge of the pool.

She turns.  He approaches her.  They stand several yards apart.

Looking into each other's eyes, they do not speak.  Jerome

abruptly pulls a hair from his head - for once one of his own.

Irene takes the hair, the significance not lost on her.

Irene contemplates the hair in her fingers for a moment, then

deliberately lets it fall to the ground.

Once again there is not a breath of wind.  The hair lies,

plainly visible on the edge of the pool.

From an upstairs window, EUGENE observes the couple.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

We watch the silhouette of IRENE and JEROME making love in

the bedroom.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

EUGENE, sitting in his darkened room, unscrews the cap of a

plastic container and places it on a nearby table.  We remain

on Eugene's face as he opens his fly.

INT.  JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

IRENE and JEROME lie in bed together after making love.  For

once Jerome is able to sleep unconcerned.  It is Irene who lies

awake, head against JEROME'S chest, listening to the sound of

his erratically beating heart.  However it has a soothing

effect on her.

She kisses Jerome and reluctantly rises from the bed.

Jerome smiles.  For once Irene seems to be looking forward

to the trip.  She exits the room.

INT.  INCINERATOR.  MORNING.

Inside the incinerator, JEROME scrapes away at himself - for the

final time.  He wistfully regards the brush in his hand.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  MORNING.

JEROME, dressed for his departure, emerges down the spiral

staircase into Eugene's condo.  Jerome notices several suitcases

at the foot of the stairs.

EUGENE wheels into the room.

Eugene wheels across the room and opens the mirrored door.  The

water vapor billows out.  Jerome regards Eugene.

Eugene leads Jerome inside for the first time.

Inside are two rows of four identical, industrial refrigerators.

They contain thousands of blood and urine specimens.

Jerome regards them with awe and more than a little unease.

EUGENE points out an extra specimen of semen in the first

refrigerator.

Eugene leads the way out of the refrigerator room.

Jerome goes to question Eugene's travel plans but thinks better

of it.  He kneels before his friend and embraces him.

Jerome smiles and hugs Eugene a final time.  Eugene stuffs an

envelope into Jerome's pocket.

Jerome exits.  Eugene watches him go.

INT.  GATTACA - DEPARTURE LOUNGE.  NIGHT.

JEROME enters a large holding area along with his other eleven

CREW MEMBERS.

Jerome's heart sinks as he recognizes LAMAR, greeting the crew

for one final unexpected substance test.  His colleagues

groan good-naturedly but it is clearly far more than an

inconvenience to Jerome.  He looks towards the door he has just

entered but there is no way back.  One by one the crew are

ushered behind a screen.  Before he can think of a way out, it

is Jerome's turn.  He enters the cubicle.

From behind, we see Jerome unzip his fly.  However for once

Jerome does not urinate on cue - unused to operating his own

equipment in front of the physician.

Jerome realizes he has no choice.  Resigned to his fate, he

begins to fill the cup.

Lamar takes the cup from Jerome in his gloved hand.  Jerome

anxiously watches his sample poured into the analyzer.

Confirming Jerome's worst fears, the face of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT

appears on the computer screen.  However Lamar does not look at

the screen.  He stares Jerome in the eye.

Never lookig at the screen, Lamar presses a button marked,

"VALID".

Jerome exits up a long enclosed escalator, realizing that Lamar

has known all along.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

EUGENE knocks back a vodka.  With a certain reverence he places

his silver medal around his neck.

INT.  ESCALATOR.  NIGHT.

At the top of a long escalator, the door to a craft is secured.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM.  NIGHT.

Eugene's wheelchair, empty, sits beside the door of the

incinerator, also secured.

EXT.  LAUNCHPAD.  NIGHT.

A CLOSE UP of the flame of a rocket's engines igniting - the

ball of fire engulfs the launchpad - filling the screen.

INT.  EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM - INCINERATOR.  NIGHT.

Inside the incinerator another ball of fire - this time

engulfing the unseen figure of EUGENE.  We glimpse the medal

around his neck, melting in the fierce blaze.

EXT.  GATTACA - LAUNCHPAD.  NIGHT.

As we have seen so often in the past, a rocket launches into

the sky over Gattaca - however on this occasion it carries

Jerome.

INT.  SPACECRAFT.  NIGHT.

We focus on JEROME's face - seeing little if any of the craft.

Jerome's eyes are closed.  His head is still - alarmingly still.

Could the launch itself have been too much for him?  He hear the

thoguhts in his head.

Jerome's eyes blink open.  He holds the letter from Eugene in

his hand.  It contains no words, merely a lock of EUGENE'S hair

- for once preserved solely for its sentimental value.  The

hair, weightless, floats off the page.

We focus on a porthole looking out upon a starscape.

A STARSCAPE

As we pan across the constellations, a title is superimposed

upon the starscape:

The first title is replaced in the heavens by a second title.

A succession of portraits and photographs of RENOWNED and

HISTORIC FIGURES fades in and out of the constellations - the

accompanying titles list their affliction rather than their

accomplishments.

The face of Charles Darwin fades off and another title appears

out of the stars.

The title fades off and is replaced by one final title in the

night sky.

CUT TO BLACK

